
-------------------------------------------~-------------, 


Past conflict key in ethnic strife 
By DAVID DISHNEAU 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Rep. Dan Rostenkowski matched his clout as one of Capitol Hill's premier power brokers against challengers who bet a federal probe into his finances could lead to an upset in Tuesday'.s primary. 
Rostenkowski, chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee and a prime mover behind President Clinton's legislative agenda, faced two vigorous Democratic foes who mounted the toughest election challenge ·of his 36­year congressional career. 
Illinois voters also decided whether to hand the Democratic nomination for gov­ernor to a candidate who pro­posed a $2.5 billion income tax increase. Democratic leaders nervously watched a slate of Lyndon LaRouche followers on their party's ballot, hoping to avoid a repeat of LaRouche vic­tories in 1986 that threw the party into disarray. 
Rostenkowski's main chal­lengers were state Sen. John Cullerton and former Chicago alderman Dick Simpson, who complained that the 66-year­old congressman was tainted by Washington corruption and out of touch with his district. Chicago alderman Michael Wojcik and a fifth candidate, John McCarthy, who did not campaign actively, also were on the ballot. 
Recent polls suggested Rostenkowski might have a narrow edge. A Chicago Tribune poll two weeks ago indicated Rostenkowski was 
supported by 27 percent of like­ly voters, while Cullerton had 23 percent and Simpson had 13 percent. Thirty-one percent was undecided. 
Victory in tlie primary has been tantamount to re-election in heavily Democratic Chicago, though five Republicans were on the primary ballot seeking to challenge Rostenkowski in the fall. 
In the Democratic gubernato­rial contest, state comptroller Dawn Clark Netsch, author of the $2.5 billion tax-increase· plan, beat state Attorney General Roland Burris, who would be the first black to win a major-party gubernatorial nomination in Illinois, and Cook County Board president Richard Phelan, who first gained national attention as special counsel in the ethics probe of then-U.S. House Speaker Jim Wright. 
Two other candidates, James Gierach and LaRouche follower Sheila Jones, were on the Democratic ballot. The Democratic winner likely will challenge first-term Gov. Jim Edgar, who faced a low-profile conservative challenger in the GOP primary. 
Rostenkowski had to pull out all the stops because his re­election bid was clouded by questions about his congres­sional and campaign finances. 
In the spring of 1992 his name surfaced in an investiga­tion of whether lawmakers used phony stamp transactions at the House post office to con­vert congressional expense funds for personal use. Newspaper reports documented that Rostenkowski used taxpay-
By ROSANNA D'ALESSAND~O News Writer 
Although there are no simple solutions to ethnic conflicts today, understanding the caus­es of past conflicts can be a sig­nificant step towards their future resolution, according to Dr. Raimo Vayrynen, the new John M. Regan, Jr. Director of The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
The conceptual analysis of "ethnic vs. state-based nationalism provides the basis of whether conflicts can be re­solved, and the implications for the structure of international society," he told an audience gathered in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium yesterday after­noon. Vayrynen was presented with the formal badge of his of­fice by University Provost Timo­thy O'Meara, prior to his Inau­gural Lecture entitled "Towards a Theory of Ethnic Conflicts and Their Resolution." 
Vayrynen examined how the concept of a nation-state com­bines two different contradic­tory notions, the state and the nation, and therefore, is con­ducive to resulting conflict. "Conflict emerges when there's a clash between state-based and ethnic-based nationalism. While nationalism is inclusive, ethnicity is exclusive. For eth­nicity demands autonomy," he said. He further explained that when this clash between eth­nicity and nationalism occurs, ultimately nationalism prevails. 
The concept of "ethnic iden­tity" refers to an individual's particular loyalties towards an ethnic group, Vayrynen in­structed. "Ethnic identity is sit­uationally variable. People can choose for themselves how eth­nic they want to be," he said. 
He explained that ethnic identity is directly connected with the theory of social action. "Individual loyalties to particu­lar ethnic groups provide re­sources to advance social, polit­ical, and economic growths," he said. 
Vayrynen emphasized the importance of understanding that "ethnic crystallization" is a necessary precondition of out­break and escalation of ethnic conflicts. "There is a constant dialogue 'between ethnic com­munities about who is the gen­uine representative of the peo­ple and what particular rights can be derived from their de­mands," he said. 
Ethnic crystallization refers to the means with which ethnic communities establish and communicate with each other their values and needs, and can be understood by either an in­strumentalist or a primordialist point of view, Vayrynen said. He warned against disregard­ing the primoridal approach because it describes ethnicity by kinship, culture, and blood ties; concepts which seem out­dated today. 
He cited the former Soviet Union as an example of how primordial ethnicity remains a relevant concept in modern day 
Illinois Democratic Primaries 


Ill Netsch 45% • Burris 35% D Phelan 15% • Others 5% 
er money to buy three cars, used campaign funds to pay himself for a little-used office and controlled a payroll that included employees who did not show up for work. 
The negative publicity took a political toll; a Tribune poll in January placed his approval rating at just 30 percent. 
'Rostenkowski, son of a Democratic ward boss, was installed in Congress in 1958 by the late Mayor Richard Daley, and for decades, the influence of the party organization made his re-election a foregone con­clusion. In the mid-1970s, one Rostenkowski opponent was quoted as saying he'd demand a recount if declared the win­ner. 
But his district was radically reshaped in 1992 by a Republican-drawn reapportion­ment map. Gone were the con-· servative, blue-collar Polish neighborhoods that had been his core support. Rostenskowski found himself representing large numbers of suburbanites and affiuent, lib­eral young professionals along Chicago's lakefront. 
In 1992, Simpson gave Rostenkowski his toughest pri­mary race in more than 20 years, drawing nearly 43 per­cent of the vote, and he main­tained the criticism until this year's rematch. 
ethnic conflicts. By controlling_ the mass media, the Communist Party prevented the mobilization of ethnic con­sciousness. Vayrynen outlined various methods of resolving ethnic conflicts. He explained that the "values first" approach towards resolution of conflict is more subjective, emphasizing cross-cultural differences and ideologies. The opposite, more objective approach, however, is a more effective means of reso­lution. 
"With the interest-based ap­proach, emotions and identity can be downplayed so that the focus can be on territory and property rights," he said. 
However, the most effective way to end ethnic strife is to "initiate bilateral negotiations between national and ethnic communities," Vayrynen said. He pointed out that this kind of cooperation by two adversarial groups is usually facilitated by a third party as mitigator, such as the Norwegians involvement in the Middle East negotiations in the Fall of 1993. 
Vayrynen offered his opinion on the most effective solution to developing sound resolutions to future ethnic conflicts. "The only way to find out more last­ing solutions to ethnic conflicts is to redefine the political basis of the entire national order," he summarized. He emphasized that the problem of ethnic con­flict requires a fundamental reconsideration of the entire international system as it exists today. 


r 
[ 
~ page2 The Observer • INSIDE Wedneday, March 16, 1994 
r 
INSIDE COLUMN 0 AT AGLANCE " 
I 
r 
~ 
Legalization of drugs is the only solution 
After ten years and -------­
untold billions of dollars Christopher into America's oft pro-Kratovi1 claimed "War on Drugs" Viewpoint Copy Editor 
it is still unsafe to walk ------'----­through the downtown district of any major American city after dark. Although an occa­sional positive trend has emerged (e.g. the decrease in cocaine use among 18-24 year olds), the news from the "Drug War" has remained for the most part grim while the daily reality of crime in our cities simply reconfirms the at best static nature of the front. 
It is time for the United States to recognize that no amount of money and no number o extra police officers can turn the tide of this conflict and that within the framework of our tradition of individual liberty this "war" can not be won. Illegal narcotics will continue to be demanded in this country, they will continue to easily enter -we can not make our borders impermeable -and they will continue to be widely sold and distributed. One of the funda­mental lessons of the 20th century is that no government, be it a Marxist regime or our own failed policy of Prohibition, can successfully counteract the basic laws of supply and demand. 
While our government is essentially powerless to stop the drug trade, it is well withwithin its capacity to control and regulate this aspect o the economy in much the same way that alcohol and tobacco distribution are currently moni­tored. The option of legalizing narcotics should be explored as a viable alternative to increasing yet largely ineffective police action. 
The benefits of controlled drug legalization are self-evident. From the perspective of the average drug-free citizen the prime manifes­tation of the drug crisis is the crime it gen­erates. In my home state of Texas, for example, !5 ~ercent of inmates are in prison on drug msptred or related crime. Legalization would take the drug trade out of the hands of criminal organizations and put it into the hands of legiti­mate distributors and would rid us of bloody "turf wars" between gangs. Legalization would reduce the artificially high price of drugs to a point where it would not be necessary for users to commit crime to support their habits as the inherent value and production cost of these sub­stances is actually quite low. Vast police resources would be freed up for the protection of citizens against other dangers. 
A heavy "sin tax" could be placed on drugs, much as is the case with alcohol and tobacco generating desperately needed new revenue fo; the government. The spread of the AIDS virus would be slowed among IV drug users due to easy access to clean needles. 
Needless to say, drug decriminalization should not be embarked on haphazardly. The process must be gradual and should be pro­ceeded by pilot programs in selected cities. Provision would have to be made for the licens­ing and monitoring of distribution centers. Selling narcotics without a license must then be treated as an significant crime. Newly generat­ed "sin tax" funds could be used to fund large scale educational campaigns for school children and young adults and to establish free rehabili­ta~ion centers to those addicts who voluntarily wtsh to escape their self-imposed habit. 
The U.S. must recognize that self-destruction is a personal volition and that, rather than pre­venting individual self-damage, it is the moral obligation of government to minimize the reper­cussions that illegal drugs have on society as a whole. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
JUDAY'S STAFF 
News Production 
Dave Tyler Kyle Green Patti Carson Susan Marx 
Sports 
Tim Seymour Accent Viewpoint Allison Ebel Allison Ebel 
Lab Tech Graphics 
T.J. Harris Chris Weirup 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Mandela kicks offSouth Mrican Homelands Campaign 
MMABATHO, South Africa 
. The Afri~an National Congress and the government will act agamst anyone who stands in the way of South Africa's first all-race election, Nelson Mandela told cheer­ing crowds Tuesday. 
Mandela was kicking off the ANC's campaign in Bo­phuthatswana, where the South African government and the ANC worked together last week to oust homeland leader Lucas Mangope, who had opposed the vote. 
About 35,000 jubilant supporters cheered Mandela at Independence Stadium, one of the many extravagant gov­ernment structures on which Mangope had spent money at the expense of his impoverished people. 
The crowd was the largest ever to attend a political rally at the stadium, showing the ANC enjoys much broader support in Mmabatho, the homeland capital, than Mangope ever had. 
"My mere presence here is proof that in Bo­phuthatswana there is now free political activity " Mandela said. Throughout the day, ANC banners h~d been posted around Mmabatho, the first campaign posters to appear in the region. 
Mandela said Mangope's ouster should send a signal to others opposing the April 26-28 vote that the ANC and the South African government were determined to ensure free campaigning and voting nationwide. 
The Zulu nationalist Inkatha Freedom Party has threat­ened to disrupt the election unless it gets an autonomous or sovereign Zulu kingdom. On Sunday, 3,000 Inkatha members prevented the ANC from holding a rally at a sports stadium in Natal Province, which includes the tra­ditional Zulu homeland. 
Mandela announced he would meet Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini during a campaign swing through Natal on Friday. 
"The ~emand for free and fair elections is very strong, and I thmk what happened here is going to send a mes­sage" to other areas, Mandela told reporters. Without singling out any particular group or region, he said acting to ensure a free vote "may require measures that are not necessarily similar to measures that were taken" in Bophuthatswana. 
The ~C is expected to ride strong black support to win the electwn and lead South Africa's first post-apartheid 
Utah governor vetoes women's bill 
SALT lAKE CITY 
Gov. Mike Leavitt vetoed legislation that would have allowed the Elks Club and other private organizations to exclude women without losing their liquor licenses.The bill would have amended the state's Civil Rights Act to exempt fraternities, charities and religious organizations. The measure was attacked by women and minorities as blatant discrimination. The Utah Supreme Court ruled !ast year that any organization with a state liquor license ts regulated by the state and can't violate the Civil Rights Act. The bill was introduced in response to the ruling.The governor said the legislation could have harmed Salt Lak~. City's bid-f?r th~ 2002 Olympic Winter Games. Craig TruJtllo, executlVe dtrector of the organization Centro Civico Mexicano, said the bill would have contradicted Utah's theme for the Olympics: "The World is Welcome Here." 
Helmsley blamed for dismissals 
NEW YORK 
It's Leona Helmsley the way you remember her: firing executives with impunity, cutting loose longtime employees. Or is it? The Queen of Mean is being blamed by several top execu­tives for their dismissals over the last 



Black Homelands in South Africa 
ill Nelson M;~ela was kicking ~ Two people died in Umlazi, 
off the ANC's campaign in a black township near Durban. iri 
Mmabatho, Bophuthatswana, Natal province. About 60 miles to 
where the South African the north, in Enseleni township 
government and the ANC worked on the Indian Ocean coast, police 
together last week to oust ~ere quoted as saying six were 
homeland leader Lucas Mangope, killed and seven wounded when 
who had opposed the vote. gunmen in a pickup truck shot at 
commuters waiting at bus stops. 
AP/Wm. J. Castello 
go~ernment. Zulu nationalists and most pro-apartheid white groups demand guarantees of autonomy or inde­pendence before they'll join the election. 
Mangope had aligned himself with the election oppo­nents, ~nd this, along with charges of corruption and represswn, led to a crippling strike last week by gov­ernment workers and civil unrest believed to have killed dozens of people. 
South African troops were sent to r-estore order, and South Africa's multiracial Transitional Executive Council -dominated by the government and ANC -then stripped Mangope of power and put South African Am­bassador Tjaart van der Walt in control. Tuesday, ANC figure Job Mokgoro was appointed to join van der Walt as co-administrator. 
two months, Crain's New York Business reported this week. The firings coincide with Mrs. Helmsley's release from prison after she served 21 months on a tax charge.Crain's said she fired general managers at two hotels, three senior executives at her commercial real estate company, senior sales officials at one hotel and one of her lawyers.Not true, Helmsley spokesman Howard Rubenstein said. 
Books of poetry appear in hotels 
NEW YORK 
Nobel laureate Joseph Brodsky and Andrew Carroll, a Columbia University graduate, decided to stock hotel room nightstands with anthologies of poetry, alongside the Bible.The difference is guests are encouraged to walk off with Emily Dickinson, Walt Whitman and Robert Fr.ost.Brodsky and Carroll first. discussed the idea in 1992, but it wasn't until last spring that hotels in Mas­sach~setts, Virginia and Texas signed on. Funded by donatwns, about 12,500 books of poetry have been dis­tributed.Their American Poetry and Literacy Project has branched out to a Manhattan hospital, a homeless shelter in San Diego, a Club Med resort in Florida and airport waiting rooms. 
"When books are available you can make a choice between a drug and a book, a gun and a book, God knows what," said Brodsky a Soviet native and farmer poet laureate. 

Wednesday, March 16, 1994 
Conference ends without consensus 
By ROBERT NAYLOR JR. 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 
A first-ever global jobs con­ference drew to a close today with all countries agreeing they face nagging unemployment in 
. industrialized nations, but dis­agreeing on just what the solu­tions should be. 
While the Cabinet ministers held their final session at Coho Hall, lower-level aides negoti­ated over the wording of a final statement summing up the con­ference. United States Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen was to present it later in the day. 
The session was opened Monday by President Clinton, whose idea it was to bring to­gether for the first time fi­nance, economics and labor ministers from the world's seven richest countries -the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, Canada, Italy and France. 
Treasury Undersecretary Lawrence Summers said that the conference should not be judged a failure just because it did not produce any major new initiatives for global economic coordination. 
"This kind of exchange does­n't produce a rabbit out of a hat or a miracle tomorrow, but over time I think it is going to produce real, tangible benefits for people," Summers said in a CNBC interview. 
Even before Bentsen read the final statement, officials said that wide differences remained in many areas. While the U.S would like Japan and German to boost economic growth as a way of reducing global unem­ployment, those countries re­sisted U.S. pressure for tax cuts and lower interest rates. 
And the most contentious economic issue at present, U.S. 
demands that Japan agree to import goals, was not even brought up during the sessions. 
Bentsen said today that he still believed the meeting had been a success. He said it fo­cused attention on the critical need to reduce global unem­ployment, even if the Japanese and Germans did not make any new offers to stimulate their economies. 
"There's an understanding and a growing understanding how we spill over on each other, that our concerns and successes are often shared," Bentsen said in an interview on ABC's "Good Morning Amer­ica." 
All sides agreed differences remained, although they tried to evade talking about them. 
"It's a rather dangerous dis­cussion if we were to bring out all the nuances of difference," Britain's Chancellor of the Ex­chequer Kenneth Clarke said today. "You couldn't get these countries to draw up common policies." 
Clarke's comments were in sharp contrast to the level of public enthusiasm the Clinton administration was showing in the meeting, which was pro­posed by Clinton at last year's economic summit in Tokyo. 
"This will be looked back upon, I am convinced, as one of the most important turning poirits in postwar dialogue be­tween the United States and other industrialized nations," said Vice President AI Gore, who stayed behind after Clinton left Monday. 
"We are now opening a brand-new chapter by focusing on the one economic issue of most importance to the people of all the nations represented at this conference: how to create high-wage jobs," Gore said. 

Serious Discussion 
Professors Janet Kourany, Sharron O'Brien, and Katherine O'Brian-O'Keefe (seated left to right) listen to Professor Carolyn Collahan as she makes a point during the panel discussion "Women in Academia." 
Associated Press 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil 
Inmates seized Roman Catholic Cardinal Aloisio Lorscheider and 17 other peo­ple in a prison uprising today in northeastern Brazil, police re­ported. 
Authorities said at least two policemen were injured and two inmates may have been hurt. The Globo TV network said one policeman was killed in a shootout, but there was no confirmation. 
Police said the rebellion be­gan this morning while Lorscheider and human rights activists were visiting the Paulo Sarasate prison outside Fort­aleza, a city of 1.8 million peo­ple about 1,700 miles northeast 
SophomOres! 
Interested in beinJJ the JPW Chaarperson? 
Pick up applications at the LaFortune Info Desk March 3-16 Applications Due March 18 
For information call Christi at 4-4090 
of Rio de Janeiro. 
Capt. Marcelio Silva said the group was about 50 yards in­side the prison when 16 in­mates cutting the grass jumped them with homemade knives. The inmates grabbed a guard and took a revolver and a rifle, he said by telephone from For­taleza. 
Globo TV broadcast pictures of an inmate armed with a knife grabbing the white-haired cardinal around the neck and wrestling him to the ground. Another inmate held a knife to the neck of a second hostage, 
CAMPUS BRIEF 
while a guard pointed a re­volver at the prisoner's head. 
Lorscheider, a 69-year-old native of Brazil who was named cardinal in 1976, is a leading voice of Catholicism's liberal wing. Brazil is the world's largest Roman Catholic coun­try, with 130 million followers in its population of 150 million. 
Silva said the hostages in­cluded the cardinal, two bish­ops, a priest, a state legislator, a city councilman, the council­man's wife. two Brazilian jour­nalists and two state police colonels. 


page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, March 16, 1994 
Clinton seeks solace in friendly New Hamsphire 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
KEENE, N.H. 
Struggling for another politi­cal comeback in snowy New Hampshire, President Clinton went before friendly crowds Tuesday in~--------~ 
hopes of demonstrat­
i n g 
Americans care more about jobs and health care than the 

Whitewater Bill Clinton controversy. "Whitewater is for canoeing and rafting," 68-year-old Betty 
J. Windberg told Clinton at a town meeting in Nashua. "Shame on those who would detract and distract from the important work you're doing." 
"Thank you. Bless you," the president replied. He beamed at her comment, which was echoed by two other partici­pants. 
In his hour-long appearance, Clinton moved like a talk show host, pacing the stage at the Elm Street Junior High School with a wireless microphone and answering questions -which were exclusively about educa­tion, jobs and health care. 
"This is America," Clinton said afterward. "This is what people care about." 
Attendance was limited to people who got tickets from local politicians or school offi­cials. The audience of 1,200 people was filled with Clinton supporters. 
He said the reason his mes­sage had been drowned out by the Whitewater affair was sim­ple: "I haven't been out here with them." 
New Hampshire was the state that launched Clinton's come­back in 1992 when he was bat­tered by questions about his draft record and allegations about womanizing. He said he had "a depth of affection and respect" for the people here. 
Asked by reporters if his visit was intended to launch his re­election oompaign, Clinton said, "This isn't about the 1996 cam­paign. This is about what we're going to do in Congress for the American people in 1994." 
From Nashua, Clinton flew to Keene to tour a factory that makes equipment for industrial printing and marking. He was applauded repeatedly when he addressed the workers. 
Later, he was flying to New York state to welcome home American troops from duty in Somalia. 
In Nashua a reporter brought up Whitewater, telling Clinton that Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-Ind., had said there should be con­gressional hearings to clear up any perception of wrongdoing. "You learned nothing at the town meeting," Clinton snapped. 
As for Hamilton, Clinton said, "That's a discussion he ought to have with the special coun­sel." Special prosecutor Robert Fiske has asked Congress to delay any hearings, fearing that they would compromise the integrity of his investigation. "We have all cooperated," Clinton said. 
Clinton had caused a stir Monday night when he 
Aldus and Adobe to join forces 
By CATALINA ORTIZ 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Adobe Systems Inc. and Aldus Corp., the leading makers of desktop publishing software, said Tuesday they would merge in a stock swap valued at about $525 million. 
The companies said the move would help them better com­pete in an evolving electronic publishing industry. 
"We could have both gone on our own, but we looked to the future ... and we felt in this case that adding one· and one together created three," said Paul Brainerd, president and Chuck Geschke would be presi­authoring and representation," dent of the combined company, Warnock said in a statement: which will be based in The combined companies Mountain View. A name has not could "pioneer the process and yet been decided. provide the tools required to 
Brainerd, who said he help our customers move from planned last year to step away today's paper-based informa­from management, would join tion infrastructure to tomor­the new company's board. He row's digital world," he said. also is a major Aldus share­holder and has agreed to vote Adobe agreed to give 1.15 his shares in favor of the deal. shares of its stock for each 
While the companies were share of Aldus common stock. looking to cut expenses, includ­The value of the deal would ing labor costs, they had not fluctuate with Adobe's share decided if layoffs would occur, price. Geschke said. Adobe's stock closed $32.50 
Adobe's flagship product is a per share, down $1.25, on the program called Adobe Nasdaq stock market Tuesday. PostScript that lets personal Aldus closed up 75 cents at computers work with different $26.25 per share. 
It has become an industry stan­The deal is subject to numer­dard. The company also makes 
ous conditions, including 
programs to let PC users print
approval by regulators and 
text in various typefaces. 
shareholders. Shareholders are expected to approve the merger 
Aldus' leading product is
in July. 
PageMaker, a $600 program for making layouts of sophisti­Aldus and Adobe Systems, 
cated documents with color
based in Mountain View, Calif., 
illustrations and graphics.
dominate the market for per­Desktop publishing has grownsonal computer programs used into a $2 billion industry sinceby individuals and businesses to the two companies were found­
create documents such as 
ed in the mid-1980s. 
newsletters, magazines and 
"Combined, the two compa­
newspapers. Their products 
nies offer products that address
generally don't overlap, but every aspect of information
they do have competing pro­grams used by graphic artists 
CORRECTION
to make illustrations. 
The companies would contin-_ ue to sell all their products for the foreseeable future, 

makes and formats of printers. 
founder of Seattle-based Aldus. 
Brainerd said. 
Ifyou are a SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJOR who enjoys 
John Warnock, chairman and 
working with money and people, STUDENT GOVERNMENT needs you 
chief executive of Adobe, would hold those posts in the merged 
as the Student Body Assistant Treasurer. 
company. Adobe president 
•Student Body Assistant Treasurer aids the Student Body Treasurer in disbursing funds for: 
You're finally 21! 
Student Government Student Union Board 
Welcome to 
Halls
the 90's, 
Clubs and Organizations This is in preparation for your becoming 
. , 
THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER
~mee! 
the following year. 
•Applications 
are available in the Treasurer's office 2nd floor LaFortune between 1 -5 p.m. 

•
Due on Thursday, March 24 by 4 p.m. 


Love, 
•Any questions, contact Sally Oelerich at 631-7 417 
Carrie, Colleen, Karen, Nikki andStephanie. 
launched a blistering attack on Republicans in Congress. At a Democratic fund-raiser in Boston, Clinton accused the GOP of trying to block anything he proposes and being "com­mitted to the politics of person­al destruction." 
"I wasn't angry," Clinton said Tuesday. "That was deliberate. I wanted to tell those people how I felt." 
In Washington, Senate Republican leader Bob Dole of Kansas responded that Clinton and his wife may be frustrated by Whitewater questions but "that does not mean White House attacks on Republicans have a shred of truth to them," 
"He has had our help on issue after issue," said Dole, naming the North American Free Trade Agreement, anti-crime legisla­tion, a Russian reconstruction package and other issues. 
Republicans have been in the lead in pressing for an investi­gation by a special prosecutor and for a congressional hearing into the Clintons' investment in the Whitewater Development Corp. in Arkansas and its ties to a failed savings and loan. A fed­eral grand jury is looking into the matter in Little Rock, and 10 administration officials have been subpoenaed to testify in Washington. 
At the town meeting, one woman told the president, ''I'm a recovering Republican." She said, "We made you the 'come­back kid' a few years ago and we hope to send that message from this town meeting to Mr. Dole and his friends in the media that we're very focused. The people are very focused, we're concerned with jobs and health care." 
It was just what Clinton want­ed to hear. 
The town meeting gave Clinton an opportunity to boast domestic policies that he said had created "a real economic comeback for the country." 
Denouncing "the people who are giving me hell in Washington," Clinton declared: ''I'm going to try to give you health and take whatever it is they want to give me in return." 
~r···-··)S?if.~iii~~E~·--~1 ~ A Faculty Recital ~ 
Christine Rutledge, viola 1 
with l 
Boyd Jones, harpsichord o 
Southern Baptist Theological Seminary 
I 
performing I Handel, Bach, Marais f and premiering Chimera by Craig First o 
Wednesday, March 16 
I 
8:00p.m. ~ ~ ~ Annenberg Auditorium ~&& ~~...~~~~::!~:.::..!:..~~.~~!...?£.~:.!.~..~~:..?..~~~~...~~~ 
TUDENT OVERNMENT 
Are you interested in helping to manage and account for $400,000? 

------------------~~~­
Wednesday, March 16, 1994 
Retarded wontan can have abortion 
By JONATHAN YENKIN 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
A pregnant woman with the mental abilities of a 4-year-old can have an abortion because it would be less harmful to her than having a baby, the state Appeals Court ruled Tuesday. 
In overturning a judge's rul­ing, the court noted that guardians for the 30-year-old retarded woman testified she "would not understand or tol­erate ... the accelerating physi­cal trials of pregnancy and childbirth." 
The woman, identified only as Jane A., lives in a group home with other disabled people. State officials would not say how she got pregnant about four months ago. 
The state Department of Mental Retardation filed a peti­tion in January to determine whether the woman, if compe­tent, would choose to have an abortion. 
The woman has been-unclear about her desires, saying she wanted to "keep the baby inside my belly" but also to have the "baby stop growing inside my belly." 
A Suffolk County probate judge had ruled that the woman wouldn't agree to an abortion if competent. The judge based the decision on tes­timony from a court-appointed doctor who said the trauma of an abortion might cause the woman "to disintegrate into a psychotic state." 
However, the same doctor testified that the woman has become violent when under physical or psychological stress and that the trauma of an abor­tion could be minimized if it were handled carefully. 
The chances of suffering mental harm from the pregnan­cy were "a thousand fold" greater, the doctor testified. 
The woman's lawyers, who serve as her guardians, did not immediately return telephone calls. 
Ellen Convisser, president of the state National Organization for Women, said the decision should have been based on what is medically safest and best for the woman. But Madeline McComish, president of Massachusetts Citizens for Life, said the baby should be born and put up for adoption. 
Leo Sarkissian, executive director of Arc Massachusetts, an advocacy group for the retarded, said the case pointed to broader issue: the need to better protect retarded people. 
The court said staff workers at the group home are on duty around the clock, but that doesn't mean the woman is always watched. 
"Obviously, she is not; were she, this case would not have arisen," the court wrote. 
Are you interested in writing, editing, or illustrating? If you answered yes, The Observer is interested in you! Call 631-5323 to get involved. 
Are you independent and full of life? 
0 Are you committed to a simple lifestyle? 
If you are, call Sr. Margaret Hoffelder (219-422-6675) to dream together about how your life and ours might join in service to the world's poor and disenfranchised. 
616Tb.J2.6 Of 6 T JO6b..PiJ Of TiJb. TiJI!2..D 0!2..Db.!2.. Of 6 T f!2..ANCI6 
The Observer/ Dan McKillop
Talking labor 
Princeton University's Kathleen Thelen, a member of the Kellogg Institute, spoke yesterday afternoon on the intricacies of modern labor policies in her lecture "lnstituional Legacies: Patterns of Labor Incorporation and Contemporary Shoopfloor Policies." 
Fire wreaks havoc on Pacific Bell service in L.A. 
By MICHAEL FLEEMAN 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
A fire at a Pacific Bell office early today crippled much of the city's phone service for hours, including 911 emer­gency calls to police and fire departments. 
The blaze was reported about 
12:45 a.m. in a downtown building housing a telephon;e company switching office. It was brought under control about an hour later, said Los Angeles Fire Department spokesman Bob Collis. 
Technicians scrambled to repair the equipment and by 10 a.m., 911 service was restored and an increasing number of regular calls were getting through. The center handles 3 million calls an hour. 
Earlier, residents and busi­nesses dialing in the 213 area code, which includes down­town, were met only with a busy signal, even on lines 
A WEEKEND OF COMMUNITY 
An Experience for Seniors Who have been involved in Service or Social Action 
Friday Evening, March 25 to Sunday Noonl March 27 
(With optional outing to Gin Blossom Concert) 
Registration forms available from: Campus Ministry, Hesburgh Library And Center for Social Concerns 
Application and $10 fee due by March 18 
For further information contact: 
Robert Benedetto  273-5839  
Tina Patane  282-2879  
Ed Miehle  634-3332  

Tom McDermott C.S.C. 631-7800 Kathy Royer 631-7862 
known to be free. 
With emergency calls also disrupted, particularly in the San Fernando Valley, heli­copters were sent to fly over neighborhoods and firetrucks patrolled streets to check for problems as a precaution. 
There were no immediate reports of problems caused by delays in emergency response time. But downtown businesses could barely function without their phones, fax machines and modem-equipped computers. 
"I can't even sign in," said Miki Kobayashi of Kuroneko Yamato Travel Agency. "I can't get in to make reservations for our clients." 
The fire on the 13th floor of the 17 -story building broke out as an AT&T crew worked on a unit that powers a switching office, said Pacific Bell spokesman Gary Sanderson. The fire severed the office's main power source. 
PacBell, a local phone provider, shares facilities and equipment with AT&T, which provides long distance service. Sanderson said some AT&T service was affected but had no details. 
Recycling Is easy, Isn't II ? In fact, it's one of the easiest ways you personally can make the world a better place. 
If you'd like to know more, send a postcard to the Environmental Defense Fund-Recycling, 257 Park Ave. South, NY. NY, 1001 0. 
You will find taking the first step toward recycling can be as easy in practice as it is here on paper. 
R E C Y C L E 
It's the everyday way to save the world. 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, March 16, 1994 

SEXUALITY AND THE NoTRE DAME STUDENT 
MARCH 20: -----MoNK & MAURA SPEAK: WHAT. Do THEY KNow? 
A look at sexuality in a Christian context, and how 
we might better understand ourselves and our 
relationships. 
Presenters: Fr. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C.; Moura Ryan, Department o(Theology 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
MARCH 23: NoTRE DAME, 46556: WHAT Do WE KNow? What issues and concerns does our community have about sexuality? The panel will focus on life and relationships for men and women at Notre Dame. 
Presenters: Mary Vaccaro and Fr. Steve Newton, C.S.C., reaors Notre Dame students. 
MARCH 27: •••So NowWHAT? 
How can we attempt to live -out Christian values of sexuality and relationships in a time when these values are becoming "countercultural"? 
Presenters: Notre Dame students and recent graduates 
MARCH 20, 23, 27, 1994 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM, 7-9 PM 
Each session will include: • Presentation by speakers or panel 
• Facilitated small-group discussions • Good food and drink 
Students are welcome to attend all three sessions or as many of the three as they can. 

·--------~~ 
Wednesday, March 16, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page? 
Israeli military on alert as Muslims threaten to attack 
By KARIN LAUB 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
The army went on high alert to foil suicide attacks threat­ened Tuesday by Muslim funda­mentalists on Jewish settlers, setting up roadblocks and clashing with Palestinians in Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip. One Arab gunman was killed and a second wounded after ambushing a jeep. 
The government also broad­ened its crackdown against anti-Arab Jewish extremists, hauling the founding father of the settlement movement, Rabbi Moshe Levinger, into court on a relatively minor two­year-old charge. 
Thousands of right-wing sup­porters gathered in Tel Aviv to protest the government actions. They waved posters claiming Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin lacks the mandate to make con­cessions to the Palestinians. 
The crowd booed opposition leader Benjamin Netanyahu when he called the Hebron massacre a crime but cheered when he said: "If we don't have the right to live in Hebron, we don't have the right to live any­where in this country." 
Demonstrators burned Palestinian flags and Israel television reported four people carrying anti-Arab Kach group posters were arrested. 
The government officially closed the offices of the extrem­ist Kach and Kahane Lives groups after banning the two and detaining or disarming sev­eral of their leaders this week. Jewish settler Baruch Goldstein, a Kach member. killed 30 Muslims Feb. 25 in a Hebron mosque. 
The PLO has demanded bet­ter protection for Palestinians, rejecting U.S. attempts Monday to restart peace negotiations. It seeks the removal of settle­ments in Arab towns like Hebron and international pro­tection. 
Applications for Freshman Orientation Commisioner are available in STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE 2nd Floor LaFortune 
THEY ARE DUE MON. 
MARCH 21ST by 5:00pm! 
But four Gaza members of PLO leader Yasser Arafat's Fatah faction attended an unprecedented meeting with Israeli Labor Party members at the Parliament to discuss ways of getting the peace talks restarted. 
The Islamic Resistance Movement, or Hamas, threat­ened suicide attacks if Jewish settlers in five settlement areas didn't evacuate by Tuesday. 
In response, the army went on high alert, Israeli news reports said. Troops set up sur­prise roadblocks and searched Arab-owned cars. 
In northern Gaza, two Palestinians hid in a gas sta­tion, opened fire on a passing jeep and fled on foot. Soldiers opened fire, killing one gunman and seriously wounding the other. On east Jerusalem's main Arab shopping artery, troops fired tear gas at youths throwing rocks at them. 
In Hebron, the army briefly lifted a 19-day curfew to allow the town's 80,000 Palestinians to buy supplies. Soldiers carry­ing assault rifles patrolled the alleys near the Tomb of the Patriarchs, site of the mas­sacre, and were deployed on rooftops near the six Jewish compounds in the heart of the city. 
Settlers have been allowed to move freely during the curfew, but are under orders only to travel through town in army convoys. The Israeli human rights group Betselem issued a report Tuesday saying the army and police let settlers attack Palestinians "with virtual impunity." Police denied it. 
Levinger, meanwhile, acknowledged Tuesday that he sometimes violated the law in confrontations with soldiers and Palestinians. 
"In every democratic state, people demonstrate .... Perhaps some of my demonstrations were also a little bit against the law," said Levinger. 
He spoke to reporters in the Jerusalem Magistrate's Court where he was charged with defying an army order in June 1992 to leave a closed military area. The maximum sentence is six months in prison and $233 in fines. Judge Zvi Zilbertal set April12 as a trial date. 
By bringing Levinger into court on an old and relatively minor charge, the government appeared to be signaling that its crackdown on Jewish extremists would go beyond banning two marginal groups. 
His attorney, Naftali Werzberger, said the govern­ment was trying to silence crit­ics. "Our feeling is that a cam­paign of persecution has begun against anyone identified as an opponent of the peace process,'' he said. 
In Israel, Levinger is a symbol of the Jewish settlement move­ment. He established a first Jewish foothold in Hebron in spring 1968 after Israel cap­tured the West Bank and Gaza in the 1967 Middle East war. 
French try Nazi collaborator 
By MARILYN AUGUST The trial culminates a painful Associated Press learning period for France over the past decade. Revelation by PARIS revelation, both the wartime 
The embodiment of one of the generation and its children darkest perio.ds in French histo­have learned how deeply and ry, former Nazi collaborator willingly many French citizens Paul Touvier on Thursday were involved in the worst out­becomes the first Frenchmen to rages of the Nazi occupation. stand trial for crimes against Technically, the trial con­humanity. cerns the killings of seven Jews 
Now nearing 79 and riddled -Zeizig, Glaeser, Benzimra, with cancer, Touvier was a key Krzyskowski, Schlusseman, aide during World War II to Prock and an unknown victim. Gestapo chief Klaus Barbie, the They were lined up and shot on "Butcher of Lyon." Touvier's orders 50 years ago on behalf of the pro-Nazi Vichy regime that ruled France dur­ing the Nazi occupation. 

But the testimony expected over the next five weeks at the Versailles criminal court will go far beyond those executions in June 29, 1944, in Rillieux-la­Pape, outside Lyon. It will pro­vide an unprecedented forum for exploring the extent of French collaboration with Nazi Germany. 
For the 45 years that preced­ed his arrest at a Roman Catholic priory in Nice in 1989, Touvier was a fugitive, moving from convent to monastery under assumed names with his wife and two children in tow. 
The trial will focus on how a man condemned to death twice in absentia managed to elude authorities for so long, and why nearly 50 Roman Catholic insti­tutions offered him financial aid and logistical support. 
"If Touvier comes to trial only at this late date, it's because for decades, he could manipulate and rely on the indulgence of two institutions that have long been synonymous with virtue: the Church and the courts," wrote journalist Bertrand le Gendre in the daily Le Monde. "The trial in Versailles may well put them both in the dock." 
The trial will take place in a specially renovated, enlarged courtroom. There will be testi­mony from three French pre­miers, several historians, and representatives of Jewish and anti-Nazi French Resistance groups. 
One of the historians, Rene Hemond, headed an investiga­tion into the case at the request of Cardinal Albert Decourtray, archbishop of Lyon. He con­cluded that Touvier was helped over the years by church groups ranging from extreme conservatives led by renegade Marcel Lefevre to moderate organizations such as the chari­ty Secours Catholic, which paid him a regular living allowance. 
Touvier went underground in 1947 and emerged 20 years later after the statute of limita­tions expired. 
In 1971, Premier Georges Pompidou pardon~d Touvier at the behest of leading church officials. 
"The time has come to throw a veil over the period when the French were engaged in hatred, civil strife and even murder,'' he said. 
pageS The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 16, 1994 
Serious, violent crimes Seven dead in U.S. gunship crash 
on the way up in China 
By CHARLENE FU 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 
Violent crime is on the rise in China, and Chinese are feeling increasingly unsafe, the nation's top prosecutor told the legislature Tuesday. 
The annual report by Procurator-General Zhang Siqing and a companion report by China's top judge, Reo Jianxing, provided few details. 
The reports said 574,176 people were charged with criminal offenses last year, 451,920 of whom were tried and sentenced. 
Neither report gave percent­age increases or comparative figures for the previous year. They were five-year reviews and did not provide 1992 fig­ures. 
China never has divulged many details about crime, but an official newspaper report in December quoted Reo as telling a meeting of judicial officials that violent crime was up 17.5 percent in the first 10 months of 1993. 
Zhang hinted at the severity of the growing crime problem. 
"Major vicious·criminal cases are increasing, violent crimes are growing rapidly. The secu­rity situation in many rural areas is chaotic, crimes com­mitted by gangs in the cities and towns are serious, and the populace does not feel safe," he said. 
Zhang added that the situa­tion was likely to worsen because continued economic reforms "will bring new con­tradictions and problems." 
Reo's .report said more than half of those convicted of crimi­nal offenses last year were guilty of violent crimes such as murder, assault, rape and kid­napping. 
Thirty-eight percent of those convicted were sentenced to af least five years in prison, including death, but he did not break down the sentences fur­ther. 
Only 2,000 people in the 403,267 cases the courts han­dled were acquitted. 
Both reports focused on the anti-corruption drive ordered last August by the ruling 
. Communist Party. 
By TERRY LEONARD 
Associated Press 
NAIROBI, Kenya 
Seven crewmen who died when a U.S. gunship crashed off Kenya might have tried to parachute too late. Rescue teams searched the waters off­shore Tuesday for a missing crewman who reportedly jumped clear of the aircraft. 
Lt. Col. Mike Gannon, speak­ing from the scene, said six crew survived, including three who stayed in the Spectre gun­ship when it ditched in the Indian Ocean late Monday 75 miles north of Mombassa and just 200 yards offshore. 
Army Col. Steve Rausch, a 
U.S. spokesman in Mogadishu, said the AC-130H gunship had taken off minutes earlier from Mombasa's Moi International Airport for an "Eyes Over Mogadishu" surveillance mis­sion. 
The parachutes of some of the dead were deployed and floating in the sea. 
"One parachute hung on the tail of the aircraft," said Gannon, who added investiga­tors believe it floated onto the aircraft afterwards and did not snag during a jump. 
Russian economy hits new lo.:w 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Russia's staggering economy registered a new low last month when industrial produc­tion lagged a record 24 percent behind the level of a year ago. 
The decline in February out­put compared to year-earlier figures was the sharpest since the start of reforms in 1992, the State Statistics Committee said Tuesday. 
There was a glimmer of good news: Last month's output rose 
2.3 percent from January's depressed levels, and average daily production, adjusted for seasonal factors, increased 5 percent. 
But the February decline compared to a year ago exceed­ed the previous record drop of 
23.1 percent, set in January, the government statistics agency said. 
Industrial production plunged 
16.2 percent overall in 1993 after plummeting 18 percent in 1992. It fell 23.6 percent for the first two months of 1994, com­pared to the same period a year ago. 
The machine building sector has suffered the sharpest decline this year, slumping 48 percent from year-earlier lev­els. 
The fuel and energy sector registered less sharp declines, falling 7 percent to 10 percent, the report said. 
The statistics committee reported an increasing number of plant shutdowns last month, tied mostly to difficulties in fmding buyers for products. 
Russian government statistics are widely seen as underesti­mating the output of the coun­try's burgeoning private sector, which often conceals its output to avoid taxes. 
Also Tuesday, the ruble con­tinued its slide against the dol­lar and traders said the market 

St. Patrick's Day Special: 
Buy any regular size pizza at regular price and get a small one topping pizza for free! 
Good Now Thru Thursday 
CALL NOW! Carry Out/ Delivery 273-3890 
probably will continue pushing the Russian currency lower. 
The dollar was fixed at 1,716 rubles, compared to 1, 711 on Monday. For the second straight week, the ruble has fallen to a new record low each day. 
Traders said the ruble's steady decline reflects primari­ly the effect of inflation, which was 9.9 percent for February. They said the central bank has been intervening in the market to keep the downward trend from accelerating. 
Other parachutes were deployed. indicating the dead crewmen might have attempted to jump when the aircraft was too low over the water, he said. 
The names of all 14 crewmembers were withheld pending notification of their families. The plane and its crew were from the Air Force's 16th Special Operations Squadron, based at Hurlburt Field in Florida. 
The survivors were in good condition. Gannon said. Three were flown to a hospital on a 
U.S. Navy ship off Mogadishu and three were taken to Mombasa. 
Rausch said preliminary indi­cations pointed to engine fail­ure as the cause of the crash. He said no distress call was heard from the stricken plane in either Mombasa or Mogadishu. 
Mombasa. which borders Somalia, has long served as a 
base  for  U.S.  military  and  
humanitarian  efforts  in  
Somalia.  

The pilot attempted to ditch the aircraft in the sea, said Gannon, who added that the plane floated for a short time after it hit the water. Three crewmen who stayed 
with the aircraft made their way to shore, walked a short distance to a restaurant and called for help, said Gannon, who added he had not talked with the survivors. 
Gannon said he was told most of the bodies were found near the plane in 10 to 15 feet of water but it was not clear yet if any of the dead were actually found inside the aircraft. 
"The probably had less than 10 minutes from the time they knew there was a problem until the time they crash-landed in the sea." said Gannon. 
Rausch said three men were rescued by a Korean fishing trawler and may have para­chuted from the plane as it went down. 
Survivors said the missing crewman parachuted from the aircraft. Gannon said rescue workers clung to hope he had reached shore or was picked up by a fishing boat. 
"They had seen him leaving the aircraft," said Gannon. "To their best knowledge he cleared the aircraft." 
Gannon said the crewman had all the survival gear. including a flotation device, die­markers and an emergency beacon . 
ActFast 
Come to the Center for Social Concerns to find out about A VOLUNTEER TEACHING SERVICE PROGRAM Archdiocese of New York 
Sister Deanna Sabetta, Director, will be at the CSC to answer questions and accept applications would like to teach in an inner city high school 
Sign up at the CSC for an interview Monday, March 21 10:00-5:00 Tuesday, March 22 10:00-2:00 
A chance ofa lifetime! 

What do you think of the DEATH PENALITY? Come hear what the experts have to say... 
Keenan Hall Annual Spring Forum with 
P.E. Lyons Cavana~gh presents A 2 Day Forum on Capital Punishment featuring 
Sister Helen Prejean Author of Dead Man Walking 
Agenda: Wednesday March 16 -7:30 pm: Major Address by Sister Prejean in the Library Auditorium. Thursday March 17-7pm: "Firing Line" Panel with audience discussion. 
Panel will include: Michelle Borbe -Amesty Intl. Professor John Robinson-Law School Professor John Yoder-Thoelogy Dept. Patty Molloy -Lyons Hall 
with moderates: Cecilia Schamalbach and Vince Friedewald 
Everyone Welcome! 
~-~-~ _.,
~_,..-----~c--~~-~-~----~---.~ 
Wednesday, March 16, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Residents wonder why killer was allowed to walk free 
By LESLIE DREYFOUS 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
As the initial shock subsided Tuesday, a troubling question emerged: Why were the serial stranglings of 14 young black women over a period of two years all but unknown to the people of this city? 
The answer, some charge, is obvious. 
"These were common, every­day, hard-working individuals," said Dee Sumpter, whose daughter Shawna Hawk was among the victims. "They weren't prominent people with social-economic status. They weren't special. 
"And," she added, "they· were black." 
To many who live and work in the east Charlotte neighbor­hood where police say Henry Louis Wallace befriended many of his victims, the formula for oversight was a simple one: They don't really count. As the bodies of young women turned up one by one, there were no banner headlines or news trucks. There were no public crusades or outpourings of sup­port. 
The mourning of family and friends went unnoticed. Suddenly motherless children were absorbed into other fami­lies without a sound. The list of sisters lost quietly grew longer. And all the while, a killer was free. 
"When Shawna was mur­dered I begged and pleaded with the police to go talk to her friends and former co-workers at Taco Bell," said Mrs. Sumpter, who found her 20­year-old daughter, an aspiring paralegal, strangled in a full bathtub a year ago. 
The result: more silence, Mrs. Sumpter said. 
"Are you going to tell me that if they had done a little digging Henry's name would not have come up? Are you going to tell me that this doesn't reek of bla­tant incompetency and racism?" 
Police have apologized for not spotting a link between the murders sooner, but say the cases varied enough to throw them off Wallace's trail. Indeed, until the strangler's pace picked up last week, the deaths were sporadic and not entirely similar. Officials would not comment Tuesday except to say the investigation is under review. 
In hindsight, of course, the links are hard to miss. A few months after Wallace moved into town, the first body turned up. As the months wore on the ranks of victims quietly swelled. 
Many had worked at fast-food restaurants clustered around Sharon Amity and Albemarle roads, like Wallace had. Many lived in nearby apartment com­plexes, as Wallace did until things began to disintegrate. 
In recent weeks, friends reported, the smooth-talking former radio deejay had been going without sleep and wear­ing the same clothes day after day. 
Some wonder how Wallace, who investigators say is addict­ed to crack cocaine, was out on the streets at all. On Feb. 4, he was arrested for shoplifting at a mall within walking distance of most of the murder sites. A computer check might have revealed his lengthy police record, which included sexual assault charges and burglary convictions in two states. 
Instead, he was released. A few weeks later, four more women were dead. 
"Let's face it," said Barbara Clarke, a young mother who recently moved to Charlotte from New York City. "They weren't doing their job. They might have missed the first con­nection, or the second, or even the third. But 10? There's something wrong here." 
"If the police had just put two and two together, the whole story could have been differ­ent," said Audrey Spaulding, a white woman who saw only one explanation for the lapse: "There's prejudice. These were just murders they could push to the back of their files. It's really discouraging." 
For the women left behind, it's numbing. They did not know a strangler had been in their midst. Many knew him simply as Henry. 
"I think it's just really hard for a lot of people to compre­hend how 10 women just per­ished, like that. And no one really knew," said Robert Kelley, who has watched the news ripple among employees and customers at the dress shop he and his wife run near a complex where two of the stranglings occurred. 
''I'm not a police officer," said Kelley, who is white, "but I can't help feeling at least three or four of these deaths could have been avoided." 
"I could have been any one of them," said Angala Grooms, 25, who works at the Kelleys' shop. "The Mack girl who died, she lived across from my sister and brother-in-law," added her co­worker, Felicia Haywood, 32. 
Everyone agrees it was too close. And everyone is glad that Wallace is off the streets. 
"But it will be a while before I get over this other thing," said Grooms. "I feel like they wrote us all off as some fast little black girls who didn't really matter." 

Marine Corps drops charges against corporal 
fbaolt You 
to the 646 students who took the ·sate Spring Break" pledge and to all the other students who made the conscious decision to .D.Q1 drink and drive. 
We would also like to thank the following sponsors for their donations for the ·sate Spring Break" campaign. 
The Country Harvester  Pizza Company  
Notre Dame Bookstore  The Computer Store  
The Copy Shop  LaFortune Hair Stylists  
Irish Gardens Florist  LaFortune Barber Shop  
St. Michael's Laundry  LaFortune Information Desk  
Ken David/Artist  

Sponsored by: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education The BACCHUS/GAMMA Peer Education Network Students Against Drunk Driving 
Associated Press 
QUANTICO, Va. 
The Marine Corps dropped murder charges against a lance corporal who fatally shot her spurned lover, a fellow Marine who broke into her apartment with a bayonet. 
Lance Cpl. Rayna Ross was defending herself when she shot Cpl. Anthony Goree twice, including once in the back, Gen. M.R. Steele said in a rul­ing released Monday. 
In dropping the charges, Steele, commanding general of the Quantico Marine Corps Base, endorsed the rmdings of a military judge. 
"My heart felt like it dropped to my stomach because I've been waiting for this for so long," said Ross, who will be honorably discharged in two weeks. ''I'm happy that I can rmally go home and be a moth­er to my daughter." 
At a hearing last month, wit­nesses testified that Goree had threatened and assaulted Ross 
ATTENTION HOSPITALITY PROGRAM MEMBERS! 
If you missed last night's meeting, please plan to attend tonight's meeting (Wed. March 16). 
It will begin at 7:30pm in Room 223 Hayes-Healey. 
It will be brief so please try to attend and bring your personal calendarI schedule. 
Questions? Call Jennifer Carrier 631-7505 or Mary Rottenborn 634-2244 
before breaking into her apart­ment June 29. 
Ross, 22, testified she began dating the 26-year-old Goree last spring and the relationship soured in June. 
"He had gotten jealous, and he started acting strange," she testified . 
Maj. Michael Keegan, the military judge, ruled that while Ross fired in self-defense, she was partially responsible because she didn't pursue charges after earlier threats from Goree. 
In his brief, Keegan also chastised noncommissioned officers for not telling superiors about the abusive relationship. 
According to testimony, Goree was jailed June 15 for allegedly threatening Ms. Ross, including once with a weapon in her base office. He was released a week later after Ross changed her story at the insistence of Goree's friends. 
"Her failure to do the right thing and tell the truth played a significant role in this tragedy," Keegan wrote in his brief. 
Although ordered to remain on the base, Goree disap­peared. Ross, afraid Goree would come looking for her, began staying at friends' homes. She also bought a .38­caliber semiautomatic pistol and returned to her apartment with her 2-year-old daughter. 
Goree broke into her bed­room in the early morning, Ross, police and neighbors tes­tified. Ms. Ross' first shot hit Goree in the shoulder. Her sec­ond, moments later, hit him in the back. 
Goree wore a heavy flight suit and hat and carried a bayonet, said Detective Richard Cantorella of the Prince William County Police Department. 
"I didn't have any other choice. I had to protect myself and my daughter," Ross said at the hearing. 
County authorities ruled the case justifiable homicide and didn't prosecute. But Ross was charged with first-degree mur­der in December after an inves­tigation by the Naval Investigative Service uncovered inconsistencies in witnesses' accounts. 
page 10 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, March 16, 1994 
First female wins "macho" Waitress' murder baffles police 
Hemingway contest 
By MAURA REYNOLDS "If there was a God. And if Associated Press there was a God and He knew, He was not talking. And even if LOS ANGELES He did know and was talking, "Then she smiled," Bernice no one would have been listen­
Richmond wrote. ing. Not here. Not now." 
"She did not have to smile. "Short and sweet and won­She did not have to lick her lips derfully clever," said author with that tongue, the kind that Ray Bradbury, one of a panel of would not quit. What was she judges that included trying to do? Was this her way Hemingway's son, Jack of being coy at 1 a.m., or was Hemingway, and novelists John there a poppy seed caught in Grisham, Willie Morris and her teeth?" Barry Hannah. 
Sound bad? You bet. Richmond said she saw a bit Richmond became the first of Papa Hemingway in her woman winner of the annual father. "My father was a bit of a International Imitation male chauvinist, so I guess I Hemingway Competition. understand the whole 
Richmond, who owns a greet­Hemingway rnindset," she said. ing card company in Westfield, "It probably helped me win." N.J., said she used "divergent When she's not writing 
thinking" to mimic America's testosterone-pumped pastiche, paragon of masculinity and Richmond writes novels and compose a pithy passage titled sketches "demented draw­"Here's To You." ings." 
"I can get into anybody's The winner of the 14th annu­head," she said. al contest was announced 
The ruies for the contest are Monday at a $100-a-plate fund­simple: Send one really good raiser for PEN, the writers page of really bad Hemingway. group that fights censorship. 
Be funny. Be Earnest. Richmond won two round-trip "God only knew," tickets to Italy and dinner at Richmond's entry continued. Harry's Bar & American Grill in 
Florence. 
By STRAT DOUTHAT 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. 
Irma Horvath disappeared shortly after arriving for work at an exclusive downtown club, whose members include the governor and the state's top judge. Hours later, her nude, battered body was found in an attic above the Blue Room. 
Who would want to kill the 30-year-old waitress? There were no signs of a break-in, and police haven't ruled out the involvement of a University Club employee. 
"This is a small, private club and the employees are like family," said Chris Parlapiano, the club's manager. "I feel as if I've lost a sister." 
The morning of Feb. 21 was typical for Horvath. 
She showed up shortly before 9 a.m. at the club, which has plush leather chairs, a big fire­place, cozy dining rooms with white linen and a large cigar selection. 
"There were about 10 of us here," Parlapiano said. "About 30 minutes later, one of her co­workers noticed she wasn't at her usual place. It was a cold day and her coat and purse were in the club, so we knew she probably hadn't gone out­side." 
Police using dogs found Horvath's body several hours later in the small, windowless attic above the Blue Room. 
"She was found with no clothes, no underwear, and her head was beat," her husband, Kalvan Horvath, told The Hartford Courant. "I couldn't hardly recognize her face. She was so beautiful, but her face looked like a horror movie today." 
An autopsy listed the cause of Horvath's death as a blow to the head and strangulation. Police wouldn't say if Horvath was sexually assaulted. 
Police have questioned all employees in the club at the time she disappeared, some more than once, Parlapiano said. The investigation is con­tinuing, police Lt. Louis Wolf said. 
As far as anyone knows, there were no members around the morning Horvath disappeared, club President Richard Fisher said. No prowlers, either. 
"There was no break-in. We have excellent security, includ­ing motion sensors that would have told us if there had been a prowler in the building," Fisher said. 
"Nobody knows who did it, but it's clear that the murderer is likely to be a current or for­mer employee." 
That the killer might be a fel­low worker has struck fear in the hearts of many employees at the 88-year-old club, whose 400 members include Gov. Lowell Weicker and state Supreme Court Justice Ellen Peters. 
About half of the club's 20 employees left their jobs soon after the body turned up, and some said they wouldn't return until the murderer is captured. 
"It might be the person next to you, obviously," Fisher said. 
Because so many employees left out of respect for Horvath, the club shut down a day after the killing. Some have returned, and the club reopened Monday. Employees will be allowed back at work as long as their jobs are available, Parlapiano said. 
Horvath, a Hungarian immi­grant, supported a 2-year-old daughter and her husband, who was injured in a traffic accident several years ago. 

A CLINIC OFFERED BY THE NOTRE DAME VARSITY SOCCER TEAMS 
DEMONSTRATIONS 
ll'WS 
TECHNIQUE, PRACTICE DRILLS & STRATEGY INSTRUCTION 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16 7:00-8:00 PM JACC FIELDHOUSE 
COME WITH YOUR TEAM OR BY YOURSELF REGISTER IN ADV CALUNG RECSPORTS AT 631-6100 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIII SIGN-UPS: 
Wednesday & Friday:  *Saturday & Sunday:  
11 am-lpm  lpm-4pm  
and  
5:30pm -7pm  
The Great Hall in  
1st Floor LaFortune  O'Shaugnessy  
$7 per team  *Late sign-ups  
$10 per team  

STRAIGHT talk about  
being  QUEEr<  
T T T  WHAT ARE THE ISSUES? IS THERE DISCRIMINATION AT ND? WHY SHOULD YOU CARE?  

ALL YOU EVER WANTED TO KNOW BUT 
DIDN'T KNOW WHO TO ASK! WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16 at 7:30pm 
MONTGOMERY THEATER 
SPONSORED BY THE GRADUATE SfUDENf UNION QUALI1Y OF LIFE COMMITTEE 
~---~ -------------~----~-­
------·----------~----~,~-----------­
Wednesday, March 16, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 11 
One Pole, two Swedes charged with Picasso theft 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden 
Three men were charged Tuesday with stealing works by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque valued at $52 million from Stockholm's Modern Art Museum. 
Court officials said Krystian Marczak, 24, a Polish citizen, and Kenneth Vikstrom, 23, a Swede, were charged with grand theft and hiding stolen goods. 
Marczak's brother Erwin, 23, was charged with being an accomplice to grand theft and receiving stolen goods. 
Court officials said they were unsure of Erwin Marczak's citi­zenship. 
"There may be some mas­
termind that we are not aware of," said District Prosecutor Sven-Erik Albern, indicating more people may have been in­volved in the November 8 bur­glary. 
The three men were arrested in December, along with an­other man and a woman, who were freed after an investiga­tion. 
Eight paintings and a sculp­ture were removed from the museum through a hole the thieves sawed in the wooden roof. 
Three of the uninsured art works have been recovered. 
The world's biggest art theft was in March 1990, when 13 works valued at $300 million were stolen from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston. 


SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  
4121 S. Michigan  5327 Grape Road  
(U.S. 31 South)  (1 /2 Mi. S. of University Park Mall)  
291-9200  277-8121  

Fetnale astronaut wins duel 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
One of Columbia's astronauts challenged her crewmates to a duel of dexterity Tuesday with the space shuttle robot arm. She won. 
Her secret? 
"It takes a woman's touch," said astronaut Marsha Ivins, the only woman aboard the shuttle. 
She claimed victory during the second round of tests of the new magnetic grappler, strain gauge and targeting system on Columbia's jointed, 50-foot robot arm. 
Ivins, Charles "Sam" Gemar and Pierre Thuot took turns using the arm to slide a 10­inch-long peg into increasingly smaller sockets. The tightest clearance was three-hun­dredths of an inch. 
The peg protruded from a bar, 5 feet long and 1 foot wide, that was gripped by powerful electromagnets on the end of the shuttle crane out in the cargo bay. 
A sensor measured the force exerted by each crew member, who controlled the arm from inside the cockpit and relied on three video cameras and a mir­ror for guidance. 
The astronauts also practiced inserting the bar into a slot on a box. It looked as though they were punching in a huge time card, although NASA said it was supposed to simulate the installation of a heat radiator on a space station. 
"Marsha came up here and embarrassed all of us and did a great job," Gemar informed Mission Control. 
Minutes later, Gemar returned to the robot arm con­trols for "a chance to redeem myself." 
Noted Ivins: "The sure-fire way to get them to do a good job is for me to do 'it first." 
NASA is testing the magnetic grappler, which packs 3,200 pounds of electromagnetic force, for the first time in space. The camera-and-mirror targeting system for the robot arm has flown on a shuttle twice before. 
Researchers want to see if magnets work better than the mechanical snares that have been used on shuttle robot arms for 13 years. They say the new system could simplify the handling of satellites -the main robot-arm chore at pre­sent -and the construction of an international space station later this decade. 
The astronauts will complete the robot arm tests Wednesday. 
As the astronauts worked with the robot arm and con­ducted more medical tests, 
researchers on the ground operated Columbia's primary science experiments by remote control: fluid transformation, metal solidification and shuttle­glow observation. 
Twice Tuesday, scientists released nitrogen gas from a -ean in Columbia's open cargo 
bay. 
As on Monday, the stream of 
gas extinguished the natural 
glow around that part of the 
shuttle; the glow is the result of 
molecules of atmospheric gas 
colliding with orbiting space­
craft. 
Columbia is supposed to 
return to Kennedy Space Center 
on Friday, 14 days after depart­
ing on the research mission. 
As for future missions, NASA 
shuttle director Tom Utsman 
said Discovery will be sent to 
Rockwell International's shuttle 
assembly plant in Palmdale,­
Calif., next year. 
It will be equipped with a 
mechanism for docking with 
Russia's Mir space station. 
Atlantis is undergoing modifica­
tions at Palmdale, including the 
addition of a Mir docking 
hookup. 
Atlantis is supposed to make 
the first shuttle-Mir docking 
mission, in mid-1995. Up to 10 
dockings are planned, culmi­
nating in the construction of a 
U.S.-Russian space station. 
Senior Formal News 
Invitations and Champagne Glasses 
should be picked up 
March 16from 6-9 p.m. 
at either Theodore's or LeMans. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Wednesday, March 16, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad De<ign Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present thC views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to aH readers. The free expression of va,rying opinions through \eners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  631-6900I 8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

'Brare' seeks to improve its services 
Dear Editor: 
Father Edward Malloy is dead right: we must "dramatically improve library services ... " The Ad Hoc Committee on University Libraries, which is preparing a report on the Libraries, has noted that in many areas those improve­ments will require major addi­tional financial commitments. In some areas, however, policy and practice, not resources, are the issue. 
The Hesburgh Library's exit control system -described in very exaggerated terms as "the Gestapo of ND" -is one of the areas where improvements in practice can, and will, be ef­fected, without significant ex­penditures. Edward Imbus's Inside Column ("Library moni­tors: the Gestapo of ND," The Observer, Feb.25, 1994) high­lighted the problem, though in what seemed to some of us as rather extreme and personally insulting language. 
Fortunately, earlier com­ments received from students, along with the Gipper's experi­ments, had brought the prob­lem to our attention -and we up-front will admit it is a prob­lem. We will be reviewing all our procedures in this area, and they will be revised in the coming months to offer the best feasible combination of consis­tency, security and efficiency for all. In the longer run, how­ever, the suggestion that a to­tally new security system is necessary may well be true and we are costing out that option. For a collection in excess of two million volumes we know the costs will not be trivial. 
One might ask, why does the 'Brare bother with this? Why not just let people come and go as they please? If we did that, the books would also come and go as individuals please, and to allow that would abrogate one of our basic responsibilities; custody of the collections so that all users can have a rea­sonable chance for use of indi­vidual titles. 

We have all had the frustrat­ing experience of needing a book and not finding it on the shelf or checked out. The chances are considerable that it left the library, inadvertently or deliberately. The library world was shocked several years ago by major book thefts which af­fected many libraries, including Notre Dame's. We have a re­sponsibility to try to prevent that from happening. Sometimes meeting those re­sponsibilities entails some in­
\ 
convenience. You, our users, should expect what we do to be reasonable and consistent, and we will try hard to meet those expectations. 
Finally, I want to thank the students who over the past months have brought the prob­lem to our attention and to Edward lmbus and the Gipper for publicly highlighting it. We do care about your library experiences, and are commit­ted to continuing improve­ments, big and small. We ask for your patience, understand­ing and cooperation as we strive to meet our responsibili­ties to both the present and the future. 
ROBERT MILLER 
Director 
Universiry Libraries 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
WUL.., I'l/ ~AY 7H& PLAINTIFF5 
AL..50, JUR0/?5 AR8 HUMAN.
IAJ&'R£ TAI..-!<ING TO IA/At-T&R 
~II?& I?!I?A R£.AL.. (3(X}f? JOB 
7H&I</3 NASN'TON8 OF US
E!i.XJTH, JU!<Y FO!<E/V1AN 
rF F'ei<.SUAIJING US THAT 
IAJHO COUWN'T /?£M&Me&l<.
FOR. TH8 1?8Al?MAN 71</AI.-, 
WAW!3N COUE:(£ HAP 9JU? 
lA/HAT IT IAJAS /A1<8 7D

MR, ecKJlH, WHATMAl?& 
IT5UF A5 A PL.A{b UJH&R&" A 
!<8a/V& A ''5:'
7H& l?IFF8R£Na3 
Kll/COUWtxPf:CT §TRA!GHT'Jl's,
fOR. 7HI~ JURY? '­
NO Klf?f?ING1 
''christdied for our sins.
MAN? YOU 
GOT"B''5, 
Dare we make his mar­
TCXJ? 
tyrdom meaningless by not com­
I 
mitting them?" 
--Jules Feiffer 
~-­
ACCENT 
page 13 
Storytelling Saturday 
• 
Myths, legends and songs at the Snite 
BY KAREN SHOPOFF Accent Writer ­
If you are looking for an interesting way to spend your Saturday morning, go to the Snite Museum's storytelling presentation. The session begins at 
10:30 a.m. and includes songs and stories revolving around the theme 
Myths and Legends. 
The storytelling and reading pro­gram began five years ago, according 
-
to Diana Matthias, Assistant Professional Specialist for the Snite Museum of Art. Although the program was small at the beginning, there are now over one hundred participants for every session. 
Three storytelling sessions are held each semester. They are based on a central theme or ethnic group. 
The storytelling sessions begin in the atrium of the Snite with ten min­utes of folk singing, according to Matthias. The idea of beginning the program with songs originated with storyteller Jim Kevin, said Matthias. 
"There are stories within folk songs," Matthias said. The storytelling program attracts It discusses the three different ways of 
Most of the performers now are pro­members of the South Bend communi­telling stories. fessional singers, but they perform ty. Many parents bring their children, "There is storytelling in the gallery, participatory songs, she said. but individuals are encouraged to such as the sessions we hold here at 
After the singing, the group moves attend. the Snite," Matthias said. from the atrium of the museum to the Although the attendance at the sto­"There is also tandem telling, where gallery containing the art which per­rytelling sessions pleases the Snite two people trade off and tell different tains to the geographical area from staff, student involvement is low. "We parts of the story," according to which the story originated from. would like to have more student story­Matthias. One person may describe 
"It's a great way to learn more tellers involved," Matthias said. the parts of the story while the other about the civilizations of the stories Matthias believes that ethnic groups person inserts the conversation. and the civilizations of the objects in could benefit from organizing a story­The video also shows Matthias the museum," said Matthias. "We telling event. To conclude African­describing a painting which tells a match the ethnic origin of the story to American history month, the Student story. She points out the changes that an object in the collection," she con­Alliance held a storytelling evening. were made in the painting from the tinued. The event was a great success, ac­story from which it originated. 
Unlike the professional folk singers, cording to Matthias. "Many of the paintings and sculp­the storytellers are not professionals. "I believe that we should involve tures tell stories," Matthias said. "We "We just practice," said Matthias. The students from an ethnic area," have to fmd how the story changes," storytellers are students, faculty, Snite Matthias said. Because stories are she said. tour guides and members of the com­enhanced with the atmosphere of the Because of the different facets of munity. · Snite, Matthias is willing to work with storytelling, Matthias encourages stu­
The audience is divided into two student groups interested in arranging dents with either singing or speaking groups, and they move about the a storytelling evening. abilities to contact her at the Snite. museum depending on the origin of The groups are free to choose the Although the remaining session for the story. Each storyteller performs songs, stories and performers for their this semester is already planned, per­twice per session. event, Matthias said. formers are needed for next fall's pro­
The storytellers for this Saturday's "There are loads of ways to use sto­grams. session are a graduate student, a pro­rytelling," according to Matthias. fessor and two volunteer tour guides. Stories help to explain the works that Saturday's session will meet in the They will be telling stories about Italy, are part of the Snite Museum's collec­Snite Museum's atrium at 10:30 a.m., Native Americans and Nigerians. tion. and it will be one hour of music, sto­
"The storytellers are sharing their A video about storytelling has just ries and traditional art works. The civilizations," Matthias said. been produced, according to Matthias. event is free of charge. 

... 
Photo Courtesy Snite Museum of Art 
Storytellers mesmerize audiences with the magic of folklore, legends and songs every Saturday morning at the Snite. 

.., 
-
.r----....~-----------~------~--~------------~~~------~---------.-.~-------------------­
Wednesday, March 16, 1994 The Observer • NCAA TOURNAMENT page 15 



1994 NCAA l\1EN'S BASKETBALL CHA~IPIONSHIP 
Semifinals • Semifinals Regionals 2nd Round 1st Round 
((D)­
Miami 

MIDWEST 

President Clinton favors Razorbacks 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
He is on the cover of Sports Illustrated wearing an Arkansas warmup jacket, and he's seen inside the magazine watching the team on tele­vision and in person. 
Also, there he is, posing for a photo with the Razor backs. 
President Clinton, former governor of Arkansas, is hog-wild over the Razorbacks, the nation's second-ranked college basketball team and the top seed in the NCAA Midwest Regional tournament which begins Thursday. 
Clinton is such a rabid Razorbacks' rooter that he's planning to be at Charlotte, N.C., next month ifArkansas makes it to the Final Four. 
"If they go, I'm going," the President is quoted as saying in this week's Sl. 
If not, "I just may go anyway," he said. 
The President, who was a reserve on the Oxford University B team when he was a Rhodes Scholar from 1968 to 1970, talks like a basket­ball junkie. 
For example:· 
-"It's a fabulous game, isn't it?" he said. "It makes me wish I were two inches taller and 20 pounds lighter. With a 4-foot vertical jump, I could be doing something else." 
-He was "a little too chunky and slow to be very commendable on the basketball court" at Oxford. 
-'If you look, you'll see Georgia's turnover are 22 and Arkansas' points off turnovers are 31," he said, after watching on tape the Razorbacks' 95-83 victory over the Bulldogs in the quarterfi­nals of the recent Southeastern Conference tour­nament. " ... Here we are five minutes from the end of the game, we're up by five now. They are playing this half-court trap defense that worked very well. They got about three charges, which really helped them." 
.I-­
-· 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up  Wanted:  OAKHILL CONDO! Spacious liv­ing/dining area, 1 BR w/lg. loft, 2  SUMMER JOBS -All LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES- You should understand where someone is coming from before you  
to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or  looking for a Used Car in Good  Bth, fireplace, W/D, vaulted ceiling,  TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  start judging them.  Don't assume  
land-Tour companies. World travel.  Condition. Call 4-2029.  garage, balcony. 12 mo. lease, 2  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR  anything!  
STONE DUCKS ARE COMING!  Summer & Full-Time employment  person max. Walking distance to  LAKE PLACID CALL1-800-786­ 
STONE DUCKS ARE COMING!  available. No exp necessary. For  campus. $650/mo. Call Caroline or  8373  
BACK FROM THEIR TOUR OF  info. call 1-206-634.0468 ext  MANAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES.  Bill at (317)297-8485  Top 10 from the Smokies  
SCANDINAVIA, EUROPE, AND  C5584  Arthur Victor Painting, Inc. is  10 Call me the Feral Snowman  
THE SUB-CONTINENTS. LIVE ST. PArS LAFAYETTE SQUARE  Summer Girl Needed -Chicago  searching for ambitious students to fill summer managemen1 positions  FOR SALE  In a hurry ... don't worry.  9 We could make a nice macaroni flambe  
DICKY BARRETT RULES!!!!!!!!!  North suburbs. live in & help care  throughout Indiana including South  FAX IT!  8 Yeah dad you're right (he is wear- 
for infant, 2,7, & 11 yr. olds. Prefer  Bend. Complete training and field  IBM Proprinter II XL, wide-carriage,  at  ing tights)  
non-smoker w/ drivers license.  support. High income potential. 1­ like new, call lisa@ 631-5890  THE COPY SHOP  7 We just shouldn't do 12 miles on a  
Salary + room & board. Interested  800-775-4745.  LaFortune Student Center  pop tart  
person call 708-295-3493.  NEW LOWER PRICES!  6 Chris must sweat alot  
GRAND RE-OPENING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  5 We'll follow the trail of Vodka bot- 
BRIDGETS-ST. PATS  The SOUTH BEND SILVER  Needed Desperately-A private  1984 BUICK ELECTRA LTD.  lies back  
8:00 A.M. GET THERE EARLY!  HAWKS are hiring mature, friendly  Calc 106 TUTOR 2 or 3 days  LIGHT BLUE 4-DOOR  Professional couple seek to adopt a  4 Jeff, where the hell are you?  
$1.00 KILLIAN'S $1.00 SHOTS  and outgoing people to assist with  a week. Pay negotiable.  CALL X3001 WI OFFER  newborn baby. Will give your child  3 Ahh it's the rustling ouiji man!  
$2.00 PITCHERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  game day customer service and act as ambassadors to the fans. Open  Call Shannon at x4001.  all the opportunities you would want for him/her, particularly love, guid­ 2 This one's pretty deep-better take off our boots  ·•  
ILOST & FOUND I  interviews for Hawks Diamond Assistance will be held Wednesday, March 16 at Coveleski Stadium at  SUBWAY is NOW HIRING If you are an enthusiastic, depend­able self starter,  FOR SALE -INDY 500 TICKETS. GREAT 3RD +4TH TURN ACTION. CALL272-7233.  ance and support. We live in the suburbs of an East Coast City. We are active people who love dogs  1 Send in the ND jet!  
5:30 pm. Call Julia at 235-9988 if  we would like to talk to you. Flexible  and children bu1 sadly cannot bear  
you are interested, but unable to  hours and friendly atmosphere. Call  ROW.......ROW......ROW  our own children. Inquiries should  
Gold Loop earring, lost  attend.  Jacki or Penny at 277-7744 for an  Have your own rowing machine  be forwarded to Mr. Charles Rice at  
somewhere between P.E. and  interview.  New Concept II Rowing Ergometer  219-237.0904.  SEXY LEGS SEXY LEGS  
Juniper Road.  WANTED: Professional couple  $735 from the factory...But yours for  SEXY LEGS IS COMING  
Aunt Eileen is going to kill me if I don't get it back.  seeks a personable young lady to care for our three girls 8, 5 and 2,  $650 or B.O. Call4-1507  .........................................  SEXY LEGS SEXY LEGS  
m-f, 7:30-5 pm, for the summer.  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ Trek 800 bike for sale  
PLEASE call Tara 4-4836  MUST BE DEPENDABLE. Please  Earn up to $2000+/month working  15" frame, 2 mo. warranty remain- HEY X4022­ 
call 271-9798 if you are interested. ·  on Cruise Ships or land-Tour com­ ing at outpost  I HAVE YOUR BIKE LOCK KEY.  L.U.l.A.C. MEETING  
panies. World travel. Summer &  $250 or best offer,  YOU CAN'T HAVE IT BACK.  TONIGHT!!!  
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­ Full-Time employment available. No  call Lee @ 1 x5802  SUCK IT UP!  8:00 pm Coalition Room  
Found a gold chain in north quad during Spring Break. Owner please give description to  MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C6675  PERSONAL  ..........................................  2nd Floor LaFortune  
Basil at 4-4472.  ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING  Bok!!!  
AND SUMMER SEASONS  ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER  wanted: rider to Raleigh/Greenville  Top 1 0 Reasons to Go to the NCAA  
LOST: GOLD RING W/ GREAT  APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT  EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO  NC for Easter Break. Lv Thurs back  Women's First Round Game:  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE REWARD OFFERED IF FOUND  TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! CALL {919)929-4398 ext C29  $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC.  on Mon at ND. Call Maria X0908 lv name and #.  HEY JUNIORS!  10. The University is paying for your  .....  
PLEASE CALL X4298  MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC- Would you like to see:  ticket  
Work in the Wild! Tour guide, dude  ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL  9. Bill Kirk won't be in the pressbox  
WANTED  ranch, instructor, lifeguard, trail maintenance, hotel staff, firefighter  OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN­TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398  Some folks are bom into a good life,  Brian Murphy sob over his long-lost gerbil?  with binoculars. 8. How often do you get to seee a  
+ volunteer and government posi­ ext A29.  Other folks just get it -anyway,  Rich Palermo kick his wife and have  point guard from New Hampshire?  
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­ tions available at national parks.  anyhow.  an affair?  7. We have a center named Tootie  
mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­ Excellent benefits + bonuses! Over  Female roomate to live off-campus  Jill Harris fall asleep while she and  and a coach named Muffett.  
0219  25,000 openings! Apply now for  (anywhere) next year.  Rich...  6. The Thunderdome  
best positions. For more info call: 1­ Please call Carolyn 284-4356  CANCELLATION!!! The video  Gina Leggio perform a striptease?  5. White shirts...Biack bras ...  ...  
SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE THE  206-545-4804  teleconference "American  Mike Bartish crawl on all fours and  4. Beth Morgan and larry Bird were  
ENVIRONMENT EARN $2500­ ext. N5584  Choices"has been CANCELED for  roar like a lion?  separated at birth.  
$3500 AND MAKE A DIFFER­ENCE. Campaign to save endan­ Help! Need ride for two to  FOR RENT  this Sunday, March 20 at 6 p.m. in room 101 DeBartolo. Due to satel- Amy Holthouser fake an orgasm?  3. You don't have any money for entertainment after Spring Break.  
gered species, promote recycling  Mnpls/StPaul area for Easter  lite difficulties, the program will be  And that's just the FIRST half-hour  2. It's March Madness...it's South  
and stop polluters. Work with major  break. Will help with gas and tolls.  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  postponed indefinitely.  Bend...it's free...  
national environmental groups such  284-4449  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  Student government apologizes for  THE JUNIOR ONE-ACTS  1. We're celebrating all day  
as Sierra Club, Green Corps and  CAMPUS. 272-0615  this abrupt CANCELLATION.  7:10 Tonight  Thursday if the Irish win.  
the PIRGs. Positions in  anyone interested in singing, play­ Please spread the word. Thanks!  Washington Hall  
Indianapolis, 28 states  ing an instrument, or acting in the  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ GOOD LUCK IRISH WOMEN'S  
& D.C. Call Jamie: 1-800-75­ freshman class mass on April10,  ND/SMC EVENTS  Come see your fellow juniors make  HOOPS...BEAT MINNESOTA!  
EARTH.  please contact Brian at x1799  (219)291-7153  fools of themselves  

------·--------~ ----------~-----·-------~----~-------------~----~---.... 
....... 
page 16 
Upsets pave way for Graf in Lipton 
By STEVEN WINE Associa1ed Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. 
Upsets eliminated Steffi Grars 
three foremost challengers 
Tuesday at the Lipton Champi­
onships. 
Two-time defending cham­
pion Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, 
Gabriela Sabatini and J ana 
Novotna -seeded second, third 
and fourth -all departed in the 
space of less than three hours. 
The quarterfinal results l-eft 
only longshots to face the top­
seeded Graf, who beat No. 5 
Kimiko Date 6-1, 6-1. 
Graf has won 30 consecutive 
matches and 53 sets in a row. 
Her dominance underscores a 
predictability and lack of depth 
that have hampered women's 
tennis in the absence of Monica 
Seles and Jennifer Capriati. 
The wave of upsets provided a 
rare jolt. 
"I hope all of women's tennis 
gets maybe a little bit more 
recognized," said 17-year-old 
Californian Lindsay Davenport, 
who beat Sabatini 6-1, 6-2. 
"Maybe some more players will 
be pushed into the media and 
the public's knowledge." 
The biggest stunner ousted Sanchez Vicario, who squan­dered five consecutive match points and lost to Brenda Schultz 1-6, 7-6 (8-6), 6-3. 
"I have the match in my hands," Sanchez Vicario said, "but it went away." 
Novotna blew a 4-0 lead in the second set against Natalia Zvereva, who won 7-6 (7-5), 7­6 (7-4). 
Zvereva will play Schultz in Thursday's semifinals. Daven­port will face the winner of Tuesday night's match between Graf and Kimiko Date. 
The top men weren't immune to upsets. Unseeded Australian Patrick Rafter beat eighth­ranked Michael Chang 6-2,.6-7 (2-7), 6-2. 
:r.--n~~ 
.....~-v ~ 
n~+£ ~ =ffJ;:_ ;/;: 
~ 
:J.If 2J,tf?:l-t· }I -C'­
·) --;1 ,; <:: 
Tl··..'llNK 
GREEN 
T.HINK 
PLASTIC 
TH.INK 
THINK 
ST. PATTI'S DAY 
~\)~
• CLUB* 
(f) ~ 
~JvlO 
Softball 
continued from page 24 
afternoon Battersby would 
struggle, giving up five earned 
runs and seven hits in three 
and a half innings of relief as 
the Irish fell to Creighton 9-5. 
Senior Stephanie Pinter went 
2 for 3 with an RBI to lead 
Notre Dame at the plate. 
Starting pitcher Kobata picked 
up the loss, going over three 
innings, striking out five and al­
lowing one earned run. 
The Irish recovered the next morning as Elizabeth Perkins went 3-for-4 with a two-run home-run to lead the Irish past Sam Houston 5-3. Senior Car­rie Miller went the distance for the win. 
However, the Irish again struggled in the afternoon game, falling 5-3 to North Car­olina. Kobata was saddled with the loss, giving up four runs but striking out seven. 
Notre -Dame opened elimina­tion-tournament play in College Station with a 4-2 win over Tulsa. Hayes smacked a three­run homer in the third inning and Battersby pitched a com­plete game to earn her third victory. The Irish were then eliminated by their hosts, the 
The Observer • SPORTS 
14th-ranked Aggies, 8-0. 
Leaving Texas 3-3, Notre 
Dame headed for Tampa. The 
Irish stuggled in the South 
Florida Tournament, winning 
only one of their five games. 
The win saw Kobata pick up 
her fourth collegiate perfect 
game as she aced No. 24 
Robert Morris 18-0. 
The game was packed with of­
fensive highlights, as Hayes 
went 3-for-4 with a home-run, 
double and five RBI. Pinter 
drove in three runs on a 2-for-4 
performance, and senior short­
stop Christy Connoyer was a 
perfect 3-for-3. 
Throught the rest of the tour­ney the Irish struggled. No. 21 Illinios-Chicago knocked Bat­tersby out of the box with a seven-run first inning en route to a 7-0 win. A trio of fresh­man helped second-rated UCLA rout Notre Dame 12-0. 
The Irish finished the tourna­ment edged by Penn State 5-4 and despite a nine strikeout performance by Kobata, were shutout by No. 9 Florida State 
3-0. . Notre Dame must now pre­pare for regional competition in this Thursday's home opener against Bowling Green and the weekend's Sycamore Classic against host Indiana State, Val­paraiso, and Evansville. 

Sophomore pitcher Terri Kobata fanned 54 batters in Notre Dame's spring break travels, but she received little run support in landing a 1-3 record. 

E
very year, a lot of people make a huge mistake on their taxes. They don't take ad~antage of tax deferral and wind up sending Uncle Sam money they could be saving for retirement. 
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs not only ease your current tax­bite, they offer a remarkably easy way to build retirement income-especially for the "extras" that your regular pension and Social Security benefits may not cover. Because your contributions are made in before-tax dollars, you pay less taxes now. And since all earnings on your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the 
UNFORTUNATEIX; TillS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. 
money you don't send to Washington works even harder for you. Down the road, that can make a dramatic difference in your quality of life. 
What else makes SRAs so special? A range of allocation choices-from the guaranteed security of TIAA to the diversified investment accounts of CREF's variable annuity-all backed by the nation's number one retirement system. 
Why write off the chance for a more rewarding retirement? Call today and learn more about how TIAA-CREF SRAs can help you enjoy many happy returns. 
I 
Benefit nawfrom tRX deferml. Call our SRA botline 1 800-842-2733, ext. 8016. 
~ 
~ 

Ensuring the future 
~ 
for those who shape it!M
~ 
~ ~ 
CREF crr/ifu:alu arr Ji.f/rtbu/rJ by TIAA-CREF /nJivUilkll anJ lnJ!itutwnal Strvicu. For mort compkit •liforf1Ul/wn, inrluJing rba~qu anJt.rprnJu, rail/ 800-842-27JJ, txt. 80/6 for a proJp<riUJ. RraJ tbt prwptr/UJ ranfu//y bt/or< you invu/ or Jtnd monty. 
Q 
"i 
~ 
-~ 
--:. 
~ 
~ 
1 
-~ 
<;:
co: 
J 
d
...._ 
·S ~ 
.-s 
~ 
-.:: 
i 
~ -.:: ~ 
1 
·-..: 
-----~~ 
Wednesday, March 16, 1994 The Observer • BASEBALL page 17 
Braves release injured Gant in dispute over salary 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 
Injured outfielder Ron Gant was released by the Atlanta Braves on Tuesday, throwing his future in doubt and touch­ing off a dispute about how much money the team must pay him. 
Gant, coming off career-highs of 36 homers and 117 RBis last season, broke his right leg Feb. 3 in a dirt-bike accident. The injury, which could sideline him until the All-Star break, came one week after he signed a one­year, $5.5 million contract. 
"Since he is unavailable to perform as a result of this acci­dent and, according to our doc­tors, will be rehabilitating for an extended period of time, we have decided to take this action," Braves general man­ager John Schuerholz said. 
"This is an unfortunate and sad day for us, but nonetheless, this is our decision," he said. 
By cutting Gant before 2 p.m. EST, the Braves were to owe him only 30 days' termination pay, about $906,593. But Braves president Stan Kasten said the owners' Player Rela­tions Committee had advised the team not to pay Gant at all. 
The Braves could argue that Gant violated his contract by putting hjmself at risk. Gant's agent, Eric Goldschmidt, said this week that he would file a grievance if Gant was cut, meaning an arbitrator may de­cide how much the Braves must pay. 
Gant, 29, has averaged almost 30 home runs, 97 RBis and 31 steals in the last four years. Without him, the Braves will try to win their fourth straight divi­sion title this season with either young Tony Tarasco, Ryan Klesko or Chipper Jones in Gant's spot in left field. 
''I'm sad and upset," Braves manager Bobby Cox said. "He's going to be a tough guy to replace." 
Any team can claim Gant off waivers until 2 p.m. EST Fri-
Jordan makes debut behind the plate 
Associated Press 
SARASOTA, Fla. 
Michael Jordan didn't play Tuesday, but the Chicago White Sox outfielder donned a catch­er's mask to warm up pitcher James Baldwin before the sixth inning against the New York Yankees. 
Jordan, who got his first went down (behind the plate), I spring training hit in 15 at-bats wasn't sure he'd get up. He Monday, took over the catching was kind of like a giraffe trying while White Sox regular Ron to get off the ground." Karkovice was putting his gear "I'm glad James didn't throw on between innings. too hard," Lamont added. 
"With no hair, you really can't tell if he has a helmet Jordan said he caught briefly on," White Sox manager Gene in high school, the last time he Lamont said. "When he first played organized baseball be­
fore trying out for the White 
Sox. "I wasn't a very good catch­er," Jordan said. "Every time
ONE AcT PLAY~ 
the bat came through, my eyes closed." Jordan did not start
Presented by: The Junior Class 
Tuesday's game, but was on When: Wednesday, March 16 at 7:10p.m. 
deck with two out in the eighth. Glenn DiSarcina struck out to
Cost: Only $2 at LaFortune Info Desk or at The Door 
end the inning, and was booed by fans who wanted to see
All proceeds go to the Colleen Hipp , Meghan Beeler 
Jordan hit. The White Sox won 
6-5.
Memorial Fund 
The Arts and Letters Business Society 
presents 
Mr. Dick Huether 
in a discussion on 
"The Benefits ofan Arts and Letters Degree to Students Entering the Business World." 
Wednesday, March 16th at 7:30pm. Foster Room 2nd Floor of LaFortune 
All maiors welcome. 
day, but would have to pay him his full salary. If Gant is not claimed, he is -free to work out a deal with any club at any price. That includes the Braves, and Schuerholz said Atlanta might think_about signing him if he is healthy. 
There was speculation that the two-time World Series champion Toronto Blue Jays, who only have Rob Butler and other youngsters in left field, would consider Gant, but gen­eral manager Pat Gillick said no. 
"We don't have any interest," Gillick said Tuesday. Gant was drafted by the Braves out of high school at age 
18, and has spent his entire ca­reer with them. He broke into the majors in 1987 and has 147 homers, 480 RBis and a .262 average. 
"It is emotional for me think­ing about not being a Brave. But I realize baseball is a busi­ness,~ Gant said earlier this week. 
At the time of Gant's injury, the Braves said he would be out from 3-5 months. His right leg, broken in two places, was ex­amined by team orthopedic sur­geon Joe Chandler on Monday, and no change in his condition was reported. 
Schuerholz and Kasten called Gant shortly before noon with their decision. 
Canseco denies attempting suicide 
Associated Press 
FORT WORTH, Texas 
Jose Canseco was so upset over the crumbling of his per­sonal and professional lives that he considered committing suicide, although the Texas Rangers slugger says he never tried killing himself. 
"The last two years were a total nightmare," Canseco told Fort Worth Star-Telegram columnist Jim Reeves in a col­umn published today. "When the bottom really fell out was that period from about four or five months after I was traded until about six or eight months ago." 
"Sure, I thought about sui­cide. It crossed my mind sev­eral times, but it never got to the point where I sat in the dark with a gun in my hand, or a bottle of pills. It was a bad time, but getting through it makes you a stronger person." 
Canseco is in the Rangers spring training camp in Port Charlotte, Fla., dedicated tore-gaining the form that made him one of baseball's superstars in the late 1980s. 
His career has been on the decline for several years, with injuries and off-field woes mostly to blame. 
He says the problems began in 1992 in Oakland, continued through the trade to Texas that fall, his painful divorce and the career-threatening elbow in­jury. 
Within one week last season, Canseco made blooper-reel his­tory when a fly ball bounced off his head for a home run then he tore his right elbow pitching. 
He had surgery on the elbow in July and says he's 70 percent healed. Coaches say he's regained his bat speed and Canseco again is using the heavy bat he swung in his hey­day. 
Canseco also says he's hap­pier these days thanks in part to a professional therapist who helped him work out of an 18­month depression. 
"It's better," Canseco said. 
Kruk to start radiation therapy for cancer 
Associated Press 
CLEARWATER, Fla. 
Philadelphia Phillies first baseman John Kruk, who had a cancerous testicle removed last week, will start radiation ther­apy next week to try and keep the cancer from spreading. 
Kruk will leave the Phillies spring training camp Wednes­day and is expected to be in 
New Summer Session Course 
Department of Theology 
Theology 290: Christianity and World Religions Professor Bradley Malkovsky Call# 0412 M-T-W-H-F, 9:10-10:10 
The purpose of this course is to introduce the student to the basic teachings and spiritualities of hin­duism, Buddhism, Taoism, and islam. We will approach these religions both historically and theologi­cally, seeking to determine where they converge and differ from Christianity on such perennial issues as death, meaning, the nature of the ultimate Mystery, the overcoming of suffering, etc, We will also examine some traditional and contemporary Catholic and Protestant approaches to religious pluralism. 
Philadelphia Thursday for rou­tine tests that are necessary before the treatment can begin, team spokesman Larry Shenk said. 
The month-long treatment will begin Monday at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital. Kruk is expected to be out of the lineup until mid-May. 
Doctors had given Kruk the option of having the radiation therapy or waiting and then checking every two months to make sure he was cancer-free. Kruk made the decision Tues­day morning to have the radia­tion. 
"I figure it's best to do it and get it over with," Kruk said in a statement released through the team. 
Doctors found cancer in Kruk's right testicle after he com­plained of continuing pain that he thought was associated with being struck in the groin by an errant throw from former Phillies reliever Mitch Williams last July. 
page 18 
Robinson focused on tournament 
By STEVE HERMAN Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
Has Glenn Robinson played 
his last game in Mackey 
Arena? 
The nation's scoring leader and the Big Ten's most valu­able player steadfastly refuses to say whether he'll return to Purdue for his senior season or jump to the NBA for instant wealth. 
Whatever he decides, he says, will not be determined by the No. 3-ranked Boilermakers' fate in the NCAA tournament. 
"I didn't say it was my last game here, but if it is, it's a nice way to go out on a vic­tory," the 6-foot-8 Robinson said after his career-high 49 points carried Purdue over Illi­nois 87-77 on Sunday. 
The win gave the Boilermak­ers (26-4) the Big Ten champi­onship and the No. 1 seed in the NCAA Southeast regional. They'll open on Thursday at Lexington, Ky., against Central Florida. 
"We're playing great right now," Robinson said. "That's the way you have to be playing going into the tournament. ... Rankings don't mean nothin'." 
On Monday, Robinson was named the conference player of the year and Gene Keady was named Big Ten coach of the year. To no one's surprise, Robinson also was named the Boilermakers MVP at the team banquet Monday night. 
He led the nation in scoring at 30.3 points a game, and Purdue won nine of its last 10 games to overtake both Michi­gan and Indiana for its first conference title since 1988. 
"Three weeks ago, we thought we were dead in the water as far as winning the championship," Keady said. "But was never gave up, we hung in there." 
Robinson scored a conference record 560 points this season and was second in rebounds with an average of 10.1 per game. He was named Big Ten player of the week for a record fifth time after his 49-point performance against the Illini. 
"It is unusual for a team to win a championship with the nation's leading scorer," Keady said. "But the team has done a tremendous job of pro­tecting him and helping him. He gets the ball to them, too. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

---~-------­
The Observer • NCAA TOURNAMENT Wednesday, March 16, 1994 
Pitino senses Kentucky  Carolina hoping that  
peaking at right time  Williams has hit stride  
By MIKE EMBRY Associated Press LEXINGTON, Ky. Kentucky appears ready to make another run to the Final Four. "I think we're at the point where we were last year," said forward Rodrick Rhodes. "We feel good about ourselves." The Wildcats (26-6) are com­ing otT a Southeastern Confer­ence tournament championship that included victories over then-No. 1 Arkansas 90-78 in the semifinals and No. 14 Florida 73-60 in the fmal. "Right now I feel we're at our highest point of the season," said Kentucky coach Rick Pitino, who sends his third­seeded team against No. 14 Tennessee State (19-11) in the first round of the Southeast Regional at St. Petersburg, Fla., on Friday. Besides winning the three tourney games by an average 14.7 points, the Wildcats made 30 of 95 shots from 3-point  range and forced opponents to turn the ball over more than 17 times. Kentucky swept through the SEC tournament a year ago be­fore going on a tear in the Southeast Regional, winning four times by an average of 31 points in reaching the Final Four in New Orleans. Pitino said his team is better focused. It has also improved its spacing on offense, defensive effort and foul shooting. "Time heals all wounds," he said. "And it was a matter of time before a young team will develop." Forward Jeff Brassow believes Kentucky's pressing defense can make a difference in the next two weeks. "If we make our press a factor in the tournament as we have in the past three weeks, we'll have a chance of going all the way," he said. Kentucky guard Travis Ford, the MVP in the SEC tourney for the second straight year, said the Wildcats aren't consciously trying to shoot a lot of 3s.  By DAVID DROSCHAK Associated Pr= CHAPEL HILL, N.C. When North Carolina's coach­es gathered back in November to pick the team's most improved player from a season ago, an unlikely candidate emerged -Donald Williams. Last year's MVP of the Final Four, whose outside shooting had carried the Tar Heels to the NCAA championship, had toned his skills even further. But what started out as a promising campaign turned to mid-season disappointment. Williams missed nine games with a foot and shoulder injury. And his shot that had produced 25-point games against Kansas and Michigan in the Final Four disappeared when he returned. Top-ranked North Carolina (27 -6) suddenly became a vul­nerable team as opponents be­gan packing defenses around its 7 -footers. But coach Dean Smith hopes a top-notch performance in a  regular-season finale win at Duke and a strong Atlantic Coast Conference tournament will give Williams needed con­fidence. With North Carolina clinging to a two-point lead Sunday, Williams hit a clutch shot in the lane with 45 seconds left in the ACC title game against Virginia that helped propel the Tar Heels to victory and an auto­matic bid to the postseason. Top-seeded North Carolina begins its 20th straight NCAA tournament Friday against Lib­erty, winner of the Big South, at the East Regional in Lan­dover, Md. "Now it looks like (Donald) is back at the defensive end and in some ways offensively," Smith said Tuesday. "But in some ways he may be trying to do too many things to prove he's back." Williams was averaging bet­ter than 20 points a game in December before tendinitis in his foot sidelined him over the holidays.  

SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN HELPING TO MANAGE AN ACCOUNT FOR OVER $400,000? 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU AS THE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER. 
THE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER AIDS THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER IN DISBURSING FUNDS FOR: 
•STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT 

•STUDENT 
UNION BOARDS 

• 
HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 

•CLUBS 
AND ORGANIZATIONS 


THIS IS IN PREPERATION FOR BECOMING THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER THE FOLLOWING YEAR. 
APPLICAATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT STUDENT GOVERNMENT, 2ND FLOOR, LAFOURTUNE BETWEEN 8:00AM-5:00PM; DUE ON THURSDAY, MARCH 24 AT 4:00PM. 
QUESTIONS, CALL 631-7417 
r 
------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
·--~---~· 
Wednesday, March 16, 1994 The Observer • NIT TOURNAMENT page 19 
Tulane denied access to the Big Dance 
Associated Press 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. 
Tulane faces some soul­searching before it takes on Evansville in the first round of the National Invitation Tour­nament on Wednesday night, Green Wave coach Perry Clark said. 
Tulane (17 -10) has to rebound from a disspiriting loss to Southern Mississippi in the opening round of the Metro Conference Tournament last week and prepare for Evansville (21-10) on the Aces' home court, Clark said. 
"Whenever you lose, you hurt a little bit. The only way to get rid of the hurt is to go out and beat somebody. We were tight against Southern Miss and it cost us," Clark said. 
The NIT is not the way either team had set out to end their seasons. Both had hoped to make the 64-team NCAA Tour­nament field for the third year in a row. But now, both teams hope to go far in the 32-team NIT. 
"We don't look at it as a nega­tive, but as a positive," Clark said. "The main thing is to get better for next year." 
Evansville lost what faint hopes it harbored for an NCAA berth with its loss to Detroit Mercy in the championship game of the Midwestern Colle­giate Conference Tournament a week ago in Indianapolis. The Aces did some soul-searching of their own. 
"We did a lot of thinking about that game (loss to De­troit}." said Andy Elkins, Evansville's leading scorer. "But by Friday, we were all ready to practice. There were no more letdowns." 
One reason Tulane left the Metro tournament early was that LaVeldro Simmons, a 6­foot-4 sophomore who had av­eraged 18 points in the Green Wave's previous 10 games, went 1-for-12 from the field against Southern Mississippi. 

CCT'h • k G d . ,
.1. ~ tn ra uatton ... 
FOUR FLAGS FARM 
!Bed and :Bu.ak{a~t 
THE KERNERS REo BUD TRAIL NORTH PHONE BUCHANAN, MI 49107 616-471-5711
'-===================================::::, their rrrst winning season in 11
r years by beating Michigan on 
11 Reception for 

11 Reading from 
The Coach's Wife 
on "Being a woman student and faculty member at Notre Dame." 




at Gr(l(lnfi(lld'$ Gaf(l 4 to 5:30 p.m. Mareh 17. 1994 

Northwestern to host Battle of Chicago 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
Northwestern is just grateful to be in the NIT, to be any­where in the post season after a long history of losing basket­ball. 
The Wildcats are also grateful to the Grateful Dead for giving them a first-round home game Wednesday night against Chicago rival DePaul. 
With the much larger Rose­mont Horizon, DePaul's home arena, booked for a "Dead" concert, the game will be played at the 8,117-seat Welshc Ryan Arena in Evanston. 
Northwestern's home court can do some rocking and rolling of its own, although the only instruments belong to the school's loud pep band. 
"The way our home court has gotten, the crowd is really ac­tive, particularly at a time when you're playing an emo­tional game," said Northwestern coach Ricky Byrdsong. "But the emotion of the game outweighs the fact you're at your home court." 
The Wildcats (14-13) clinched 
Saturday and also defeated then lost their first nine in the NCAA tournament teams Wis­league. During Byrdsong's ab­consin and Illinois at home. sence they were 2-2 and then 
DePaul (16-11) and its fans were 3-3 once he returned. will receive only about 800 They played their best basket­tickets to the game. ball in the rmal weeks. 
Happy 22nd Birthday Kathy! 
March 10, 1972 
Love, Tanya, JeanJ3eth, &Aimee 
GRADUATION STUDENT WORKERS CATERING 
$ MAY 6-15 $ 
Free room/board $6.00 per hour 
ROOM CONTRACf SIGN UPS lOAMTOSPM LAST DAY TO SIGN CONTRACfS IS APRIL 4 
CATERING EMPLOYMENT OFFICE LOWER LEVEL-SOUTH DINING HALL 631-5449 

"I think it will be exciting to play there," said DePaul's Tom Kleinschmidt, who grew up in the Chicago area and is now the Blue Demons' leading scor­er.· 
''I'd go there in grade school and high school to see Indiana because I was a big Indiana fan." 
While Northwestern is ecstatic to be in a post-season tourna­ment, DePaul had hoped to play well enough for an NCAA bid. The Blue Demons didn't and were beaten in the first round of the Great Midwest tourna­ment last week. 
Byrdsong doesn't think the Blue Demons will be down, once the game starts. 
"I guarantee when the ball goes up with this being a big intra-city rivalry, the game can't help be full of emotion. DePaul will be psyched to play, if not already," Byrdsong said. 
Emotional states are some­thing Byrdsong became famil­iar with during this, his first season at Northwestern. He took a four-game leave of ab­sence after strangely wander­ing into the stands during a game at Minnesota, slapping hands with fans and the oppos­ing mascot. 
During the season, the Wild­cats won their first nine games, 
... 
Kinder sprints to fourth place finish 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
Expectations sometimes don't turn out as planned. Over spring break, the Notre Dame track team found out that it's tough to fulfill some lofty expectations. 
The Irish traveled to Prince­ton University to compete against 68 other teams in the prestigious individual race. The team finished 8th, but accord­ing to head coach Joe Piane, the team could have fmished in the top five. 
"It was fair," said Piane. "It was not as good as we antici­pated. Everyone competed well, but if we could have performed a little better we would have fmished top five." 
One of the bright spots for the Irish was freshman sprinter Randy Kinder, who fmished 4th in the 200 m. Kinder's time of 
21.77 placed him first in his heat, but 4th overall. 
Including Kinder, the Irish had only five top five fmishes in the meet. Junior Nate Ruder finished 4th in the 3,000m. Classmate Jeff Hojnecki placed 5th in the 1,000m and senior Todd Herman completed the high jump with a 4th place rm­ish. 
Piane credited the distance medley relay team with a good performance. The team, con­sisting of junior Joe Royer, se­
Men's volleyball to face 
tough task in Michigan 
By G.R NELSON 
Sports Writer 
After a three week hiatus, the Notre Dame men's volleyball team returns to action today when it faces a strong Univer­sity of Michigan squad at 7:30 at the Thunderpit in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter. 
The Irish (8-1) hope to con­tinue where they left off before the break, playing great volley­ball. However, Notre Dame will not be able to slip comfort­ably back into the groove. Instead, if they intend to win, the team must come out play­ing well against a quality Wolverine team. 
"This will be one of our toughest matches of the year," said a now-healthy captain Brian Ceponis. 
In fact, Ceponis used the lay­off to rehabilitate his ailing right knee, and he now expects no further problems from his knee. One problem he and coach Jennifer Slosar are aware of is coming out rusty after their time off. 
"It will be tough playing so soon after the break," added Ceponis. To combat this, the Irish have had some of their toughest practices of the year, including a three hour marathon last night. 
Notre Dame respects Michi­gan, but they also believe that they, not Michigan, will deter­mine the outcome of the match. 
"If we play our game," said Ceponis, "we will be fine." Notre Dame's strength centers around establishing the middle early with Ceponis and senior Leo Casas, then having setter 
nior Chris Lilly and sophomores Keith O'Brien and Andy Burns, fmished 4th in the meet. 
Princeton's 200 m track was smaller than the Irish were used to at Loftus, but Piane didn't think it had too much of an effect. "It was a big adjustment for me to run on the 200 m track," commented Kinder. "It affected me and I didn't perform as well as I could have because I wasn't prepared for it." 
"It a good experience and I had fun," added Kinder. 
Besides the IC4A's, Kinder competed in the NCAA Cham­pionships in Indianapolis on March 11-12. He placed 3rd in his heat in the 200 meter dash with a time of 21.53. Although his time was not good enough to advance to the finals, Piane thought it was a success. 
"It's pretty amazing to make it to NCAA's considering only 2 percent of all the competing track athletes are invited to at­tend," explained Pian e. "Four of our athletes qualified provi­sionally, but Kinder was the only one who got a bid." 
Kinder will miss the next five 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 
weeks of the track season to 
Junior distance specialist Nate Ruder placed fourth in the 3000 meter race in the prestigious Princeton invi­
concentrate on football, but the 
tational. ­
rest of the team begins their 
outdoor season the weekend of March 25-26. That weekend, Piane plans to split the team in three for three invitational meets at Purdue, Eastern Kentucky and North Carolina.  Concentration in Philosophy, Politics and Economics  
Chris Fry distribute the ball to the open man on the outside. Late in the game, outside hit­ters Matt Strottman and Tom Kovats will face single blocks. This is a mismatch of which the Irish always take advantage. "It will be fun to get back in the flow," added freshman cen­ter hitter Mike Irvine, "And even more fun to win. n They should, but it will not be , easy against a strong Michigan squad.  PPE is an interdisciplinary concentration for students majoring in the Philosophy, Government or Economics departments. The concentration consists of a core seminar entitled JUSTICE SEMINAR, three one credit colloquia taken over three semesters. and three other courses chosen from a concentration list. Limited to 25 students per year. PPE stresses careful reading, discussion and writing. PPE is concerned with exploring the theoretical issues which connect these three disciplines. PPE Committee Neil Delaney-Dept. of Philosophy, E. A. Goerner-Dept. of Government. David O'Connor-Dept. of Philosophy, lohn Roos-Dept. of Government.lennifer Warlick-Dept. of Economics. Charles Silber-Dept. of Economics, Phil Mirowski -Dept. of Economics. Students interested in the program should contatct Professor Roos in 424 Decio. 631-7556 Applications for the Fall 1994 Justice seminar are due in Professor Roos' office by March 30.  
LAFAYETTE SOUARE T 0 W N H 0~ E S "Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are The Of The Utmost Importance" • 4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS • SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS • KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE • WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT • GAS HEAT • CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING • PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT • SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE • ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS Meet OurFriendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR '94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 232-8256  

..--~--~------~----....------~.-~-.--~---------------~--~--------~--------------­
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 
Lacrosse is a pretty tough game.· 
Just ask coach Kevin Corri­gan or any his players, espe­cially Willie Sutton, Todd Bialous, or Marc Pasquale. 
All three Irish midfielders sustained injuries during Notre Dame's opener against Penn St. 
The losses of Sutton (frac­tured leg). Bialous, and Pasquale (hamstring) showed, especially in Notre Dame 15-8 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 24 
different story. 
"As good as we played against Rutgers, we played just as bad against Georgetown," noted Corrigan. · 
"We just didn't play well and it showed," said Colley. "They were a lot more mentally pre­pared after last year ( an Irish victory)." 
A 60-34 edge in groundballs 
to Georgetown summarized the 
contest. 
In addition, Hoyas Chris 
Remington and Damon Vettori 
(combined 8 points) converted
The Observer/John Bingham 
many of these possessions into
Notre Dame was dealt a severe blow when senior midfielder Willie Sutton was lost for the season in last 
scores.
week's action. 
Lacrosse team feels the ·­pain of Eastern swing 
loss to Georgetown. 
"It's real tough," said Corri­gan. "All three are guys that we were relying on in the mid­field and their absence really showed. We're going to need some middies to step up." 
Sutton, the team top offensive threat from the midfield, and Bialous, a long-sticked middie, will both be lost for the remain­der of the year. 
"It's terrible to see," stated Corrigan. "It's even tougher because both guys love to play lacrosse;" 
After an even first period, a lackluster second quarter did in the Irish. Georgetown outscored Notre Dame 7-1 to take a commanding 9-3 lead. 
With each team tickling the 
. twine twice more in the third, the Irish needed a strong final frame. They crawled back it into on the strength of Colley and Bill Hogan goals, but that would be as close as they would get, as Georgetown rattled off four more goals to end any hopes of an Irish comeback. 
"All in all, the way we look at things is that we've played three top twenty teams and have won two," said Corrigan. "We have some things to work on, but so far I'm satisfied." 
Sullivan award winner Ward down plays 'Game of Century' .. 
By STEVE HERMAN Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Florida State's mega-hyped Game of the Century against Notre Dame seems like, well, at least a century ago. 
It was the only loss for the Seminoles, who went on to their first national champi­onship with an Orange Bowl victory over Nebraska. Quar­terback Charlie Ward won the Reisman Trophy as the nation's top college football player, and he completed the triple crown with the Sullivan Award on Monday night as the nation's outstanding amateur athlete for 1993. 
He is only the third football player to win the Sullivan in the 64-year history of the award. 


JFIIDll }]jce;~ HJPJPC31 
Notre Dame 
Congratulates Ernan McMullin upon his selection as Romanell-Phi Beta Kappa Professor ofPhilosophy by the Phi Beta Kappa Society of America 
Father McMullin's Romanell-Phi Beta Kappa Lectures are on the theme of "Imagining the Real," and will deal with science, the imagination and realism. All are invited. 
Lecture 1: "Enlarging the Imagination" 
Friday, March 18, 3:30p.m., Center for Continuing Education 
Lecture 2: "But is it for Real?" 
Monday, March 21, 8:00p.m., 131 DeBartolo 
Lecture 3: "A Good Theory is Hard to Find" 
Wednesday, march 23, 8:00p.m., 131 DeBartolo 
"That game in South Bend is really not a factor right about now," Ward said of the 31-24 loss to the Irish last November. "Even then, after we won the national championship, it was less of a factor. 
"All the things that we ac­complished during that game helped us out in the long run. We were down a lot of points and came back," he said. 
Ward was 31-of-50 for 297 yards and three touchdowns, including two in the second half as the Seminoles rallied from a 24-7 deficit. Florida State drove to the Irish 14 in the closing seconds before a pass by Ward was batted down at the 3 as time ran out. 
"We came back and won the national championship. Some people thought we shouldn't have won it, but the Lord saw fit that we win it, and I'm very happy I was on that team. A lot of people can't say that," Ward said. · 
For the season, Ward passed for 3,032 yards and 27 touch­downs with only four intercep­tions in 327 attempts. After the 18-16 bowl win, in which he was the MVP, he joined the Seminoles' basketball team and started 16 games at point guard, averaging 10.5 points a game. 
Ward was among 10 fmalists 
for the Sullivan, presented each year since 1930 by the U.S. Amateur Athletic Union. He also is the first football player to win the Sullivan since Army teammates Doc Blanchard in 1945 and Arnold Tucker in 1946 and the first winner from a team sport since baseball's Jim Abbott in 1987. 
"I haven't accomplished ev­erything I want to accomplish," Ward said. .... 
"This is the amateur level. I've done everything possible on the amateur level, but I want to take it to the next level. If I can accomplish just half the things I accomplished in the amateur ranks I'll be a very happy per­son. 
"Even if I don't, I'm still going to be happy," he said. 
He still doesn't know -or won't say-whether he'll try to play in the NFL or the NBA. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Applicants should be looking for a great opportunity to gain valuable office and sales experience. Applicants should have strong self-motivation, creativity and an interest in marketing and business. Anyone interested should submit at 1-2 page resume to Eric Lorge by 5 p.m. Wednesday, March 16 in the advertising office, 3rd floor LaFortune. For more information, contact Eric at 634-1179 or 631-8840. 

--~-------·------------------~~ 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 16, 1994 

In addition to Shudlick, Min­nesota also boasts Shannon Loeblien, who averages 12.4 points a game, and Crystal Flint, who averages 11.6 points. 
While Notre Dame does not have a truly dominant scorer, they do have a rapidly develop­ing star and a great depth. 
Freshman guard Beth Mor-' gan has averaged 17.6 points per game this season, and has developed to the point where she can be expected to lead the team in scoring every night out. She has all the tools necessary for success, and is a pure shooter who could very well be­come a dominant player such as Shudlick by her senior year. 
Notre Dame is not all about Morgan, however, and has a great deal of depth on its ros­ter. Bowen scores 10.6 points and pulls down 9.6 rebounds a game, and senior Tootie Jones averages an even 10 points and 
5.8 rebounds per game. Senior Kara Leary is a point guard in the truest sense, and sopho­more forward Carey Poor is 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
emerging as a scoring threat as 
Senior forward Tootie Jones hopes to lead the Irish frontcourt on the
well as a force on the boards. 
boards in her final home game at Notre Dame. 
Poor has managed to score 
8.6 points in just 17.3 minutes per game, and has been espe­cially hot lately, hitting a mind­boggling 23 of her last 25 shots. The 6-0 sophomore recently 

IBl@Q@lP~eclipsed Irish assistant coach Karen Robinson's consecutive basket record, draining 17 
SHOOT OUT 
straight shots to shatter Robinson's 1989 mark of 13. "I think we're mentally ready 
MONDAY, MARCH 21, 7:00PM
to play," said Poor. "We have higher expectations than the first round of the NCAA's, but 
JACCARENA 
we're taking it one game at a 
({))W!E ..(Q)t::J.. ({))fii!E <C({))W 'IrlE§'ll'
time. Tournament time is where you have to play as a 
• GAMES TO 15 PTS. team, not just as five individu­
• SINGLE ELIMINATION 
als. I think our depth is our 
'II'IHIJE{!EJE JP<O)IJW'II' ~ lFIRIEIE 'II'!HIJE{({))\Wf ((:({))W'!I'IE§'II'
strong point, and I'm excited about playing at home tonight. 
• HEAD TO HEAD COMPETITION We should have a good outing." 
• 45 SECOND SHOOTING PERIOD McGraw, who calls this "the 
• DOUBLE ELIMINATION 
best team I've ever coached," is 
REGISTER IN ADVANCEAT RECSPORTS
also excited about her team's chances, and feels that they are 
DEADLINE: FRIDAY, MARCH 18 
ready to go. 
R<-~ 

A special Run of Weekend Wheels 
on St. Patrick Day3:00pm -3:00am 
Senior Bar 3:00pm...every 40 minutes ...2:20am Library Circle (Drop off only) 3:02pm... ...2:22am Campus View (Willis Ave.) 3:07pm... ...2:27am Thrtle Creek (Comer of Vaness by Cactus Jacks) 3:09pm... ...2:29am Linebacker (South Bend Ave. side) 3:11pm... ...2:31am Five Corners (across from Commons) 3:18pm... ...2:38am Lafayette Square (Eddy&Cedar) 3:21pm... ...2:41am Club 23 (Notre Dame Ave. side) 3:25pm... ...2:45am Main Circle (Drop off only) 3:30pm... ...2:50am 
Sponsered by Notre Dame Hall Presidents Council and Students Against Drunk Driving. 
-· 
page 22 
NCAA 
continued from page 24 
determined. not to let this scor­ing machine end their season. 
"She was the player-of-the­year in the Big Ten," noted Irish head coach Muffet Mc­Graw. "She is a real threat who can score from everywhere but behind the three-point line. She plays a lot with her back to the basket, and she can just turn and shoot. She's smart, and gets to the free throw line around eight times a game." 
McGraw recognizes that they can only hope to contain Shudlick, yet she's not ready to overhaul her normal defensive style to slow down the Min­nesota star. 
"We're going to work on our normal defense; not do any­thing special," said McGraw. "We realize we need to contain Shudlick, but we can't overtook the rest of the Minnesota team. They're too good a team." 
McGraw will assign junior Letitia Bowen to guard Shudlick, and will hope that the Irish defense as a whole stays true to its form. For the season, Notre Dame's defense has lim­ited opponents to just over 66 points per game, holding the opposition to 60 points or less on nine occasions this season. Bowen currently ranks tenth on the Notre Dame career list with 131 steals. 

Sophomore forward Carey Poor has become the most efficient player for the Irish, having knocked down 23 of her last 25 field goal attempts. 

Friday, March 18, 8p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Saint Mary's students $3* 
SUNDAY, MARCH 20,7:30 P.M., CHURCH OF LORETIO A CONCERT CELEBRATING THE ISOTH ANNIVERSARY 
1
OF SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
SOUTH BEND CHAMBER SINGERS • AVE MARIA FEATURING THE MASS BY NORMAN DELLO JOIO liMe ADMISSION FREE • DONATIONS WELCOME ~ 
*Discounts available for SM's-ND community. Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 
p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard and Discover orders by phone at 
219/284-4626. 

... 

The Sandwich Mafia sends Luigi to "sleep with the tourth-gradl'!rs." 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

13 Compass dir.
49 Satchel binder
1 Eye site 53 Willing 15 Nursery-rhyme7 Freshens up king's den
57"-·Lazy River" 20 Gunpowder,
baby 
14 Canceled 59"-minute" e.g.
15 P.O.W.'s 
GO Twain and 23 Black numbers16 Partied hearty others 24 '63 film "David 
17 Fossillike 63 Cloys with 
and-"
18 "Liftoff" adoration 26 Marched
preceder 19 Early Beatie 
66 Twilight time 28Wishes Sutcliffe 29lmage in
67Voucher 21 Phone button Egyptian art 
68 Supplies with 22 Bottom line new hands 31 Intersections 25 Suffix with 
69 lroquoian 32 Tribe of Israel depend or people 33 Repeated Jim descend Varney film role 
27 4.0, e.g. 34 Lifts of a sort
30 "Hey! Jealous DOWN Lover" singer 35 Charged at the
1 Computer bench33 Goofs 
salesman of 
34 Italian epic poet 39Some Dada
renown works36 Showy moths 
2 Maine college 37 Take in town 40 Ovid products 38 Nursery-rhyme 3 Musical 41 Vim quean's fare direction 
46 Empath's skill 
41 Thespian's 





~~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­


. '::iAsof'l s -rt:\ E.~ AR£ I\-(\-I,AN611'-'; So lr-; TI/'11E 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
4Question 
so-Janeiro
quest 
5 Plumber's joint
42Work unit 51 Lark 61 Oscar-winning
6 Tote board stat 
43 Shangri-las 52 Ziti or fusilli Joanne
7 Apply lightly 
Woodward role 
44 Timetable 54 Poet Bradstreet 
a-facto
divisions 55-Hari 62 Masthead 
9 Not under
45 Earth and listings, for 
56 German
10 Bundle
moon, e.g. short
biographer
47 Letter from 11 1977 Streisand 
Ludwig 64 Poet's word 
Greece hit 
58 Fundamentals 
65 Boxer's title: 
48 Message from 12Abbr. in a 
GO Each Abbr.
the Titanic military name 
tlfi.'ST Or, 1-\ofl.oZONTAL (N CON\PAI!.ISON To 'Srl:!1P£S' ADEF\1'11-rf: VER.TILAL''&-R.oPE.S. 1 
No As 1\IE't (Y\A~E WH1c11 SLIM ov UP. 
Lj•u Lool'. "'B166ER 
1\AN •u A/z.E. :jlt 



Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
If you see news happening, call The Observer 
631-5323 
TWO QUICK QUESTIONS 
1. 
If someone were to ask you if you drank responsibly this past weekend, what would you say? 

2. 
What is responsible drinking? 


Here is how many health professionals define responsible drinl<ing: Zero= Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're under 21, driving, chemically dependent. on certain medications, or pregnant. 
One= One drinl< per hour, which sets the pace for moderate drinking. 
AND 
Three = No more than three drinl<s per day, aQJJ never daily. 
If you have any questions, please call the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education at 631-7970. 
SPORTS 
page 24 Wednesday, March 16, 1994 
March Madness arrives at Notre Dame tonight 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sporrs Writer 
The seniors on the Notre Dame women's basketball team thought that they had played the last home game of their college careers when they beat MCC rival Loyola 84-75 in an emotional season finale on March 3. 
Think again. 
The seniors and the rest of the Notre Dame team will get one last chance to im­press the home crowd, as they play host to the Minnesota Gophers in the first round of the NCAA Tournament tonight at 7:30 in the Joyce Center. 
The 22-6 Irish secured a surprisingly high seventh seed in the East region when they won the MCC tournament on March 
8. That meant that the team would get to play host to the tenth seeded Gophers, who come into the first round game as an at-large selection with a 17-10 overall record. 
One has to wonder whether the high seed will prove to be a blessing or a curse for the streaking Irish. After all, this is a team that has won its last 10 games on the road, while owning only a 9-4 mark on their home court. 
The visiting Gophers, who finished 10-8 in the Big Ten, are coming off a 64-58 upset of 13th-ranked Iowa, led by the extremely dangerous Carol Ann Shudlick. 
Shudlick led the attack against Iowa with 16 points, but is capable of scoring much more than that. She is the leading scorer in the Big Ten, and has torched the opposition for 23.6 points per game this year. Five times this season the Minnesota senior has scored 30 or more points, with a high of 44 points coming in a 92-82 overtime defeat of then third-ranked Texas Tech on December 18. 
Notre Dame recognizes the powerful player they must face in Shudlick, and are 
see NCAA I page 22 

Lacrosse edges Rutgers in overtime 
By TIM SHERMAN Sporrs Writer 
Three ranked opponents. 
Two wins. 
Not too good, not too bad. 
Over spring break, the 17th ranked Notre Dame lacrosse team split a pair of games to bring their record to 2-1. 
.. 
·• 
The injury-plagued Irish had to go to overtime to defeat the Black Knights of Rutgers 8-7 on Wednesday in a game that had to be rescheduled. Their early season success came to end on Saturday, as the Irish dropped their first loss at the hands of rival Georgetown 15-8. 
While coach Kevin Corrigan cannot be completely satisfied with his team's performance, any victory over a top twenty team such as No. 15 Rutgers is gratifying. 
"The trip was a little disap­pointing," said coach Corrigan. "But after spending 5 days in a hotel (one canceled game, one rescheduled), and all our injuries, I'm pretty excited to still come back and beat a 15th ranked team." 
In a defensive struggle, the Irish turned to top scorer Randy Colley in the fourth quarter for some offense. The senior tri-captain responded. 
Colley notched two fourth period goals, as well as the winner two min­utes into overtime. 
"I had had a tough time before the fourth," commented Colley. "We needed to score and I'm glad I was able to step up. It's definitely a good feeling." 
The Irish controlled play through­out on the field, but not on the score­board. Notre Dame outshot the Black Knights 45-29 and failed to success­fully clear the ball just once. How­ever, RU netminder John Kidon stopped 22 shots to keep his team in it. 
On the strength of two Robbie Snyder tallies, the Irish were even at the half 4-4. 
Rutgers' Dan Spillett scored the lone goal of the third quarter at the 
10:18 mark. The fourth quarter was basically a Colley versus Kelly Rogers shootout. 
After Colley knotted the score with his first goal of the game, Rutgers' Rogers responded to put his team in the lead again. 
Irish attacker Steve Manley scored his third goal of the year to tie the contest at six. 
With Colley and Rogers each adding another goal, the game went into the extra session. 
Colley and his teammates had a bit more left as the Irish ended it after 
2:04 for the 8-7 win. 
"It was a great team effort," said Corrigan. "Everyone did what he had to do to win. That's great to see." 
Saturday against Georgetown was a 
Softball shows effects ofwinter 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
While most of their fellow students were relaxing over spring break, the 17th-ranked Notre Dame softball team took on some of the toughest teams in the nation, playing six ranked teams among 13 games in a nine day span at Texas A&M and Tampa. The Irish struggled against periennal powers like UCLA and Oklahoma State, limping home with a 4-9 record to bring their overall mark to 6-11. 
Despite the relatively poor showing, coach Liz Miller found reasons to be optimistic, "We got stronger defensively and I felt we hit better than we ever have this early in the season." 
Despite playing injured much of the break, junior Sara Hayes remained the team's batting leader at .372 and drove in three runs with a home-run and a double. Junior Liz Goetz moved to third among Irish battters with ten hits in the last 13 games. Goetz was 4-for-5 as a pinch-hitter with two RBis. 
Sophomore Jenna Knudson also had six hits, causing her batting average to nudge close to the .300 mark, good for fourth on the team. 
The main reason the Irish struggled. accord­ing to coach Miller. was lack of pitching depth. "One of our problems was that our pitchers are not ready to come back so quickly, and we need a fourth arm." 
Miller does not see this problem affecting the team later in the season. "The only time this happens is over spring break," she said. "Once we get in the regular season the games will be more spread out and we won't have that prob­lem." 
The Irish pitching staff is again led by sopho­more Terri Kobata, last season's NCAA strike­out leader. Kobata was 1-3 over the break, but the win was a 12-strikeout perfect game. She punched out 54 batters to bring her strike­out total to 72, just above last year's numbers. 
Notre Dame started the week off strong, split­ting the round-robin competition of the Texas A&M Invitational. but the lack of pitching depth was evident the first day. 
Freshman Joy Battersby gave up no earned runs in a five-inning performance as the Irish earned a 3-2 win over Centenary in the first game. Knudson drove in the game-winning RBI on a fourth inning squeeze play. scoring sophomore Andrea Kollar. However, later that 
see SOFTBALL I page 16 

