

Thursday, April 7, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 118 THE IN l')EPEN DENT N [WSPAPI R \IRVING NOTRE DAM!: AND SAl NT MARY'S 
Wasserstein reflects on theater, life ND, D'Arcy 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The stories of women are equally as important as those of men and every playwright, in­cluding women playwrights, have a story to tell and a voice to be heard, according to 
• see WASSERSTEIN, page 4 
Pulitzer Prize and Tony Award winning playwright Wendy Wasserstein in last night's Sesquicentennial lecture. 
A writer is not limited to writ­ing about certain typical things such as dysfunctional families, she said. 
"I didn't know that I could write about my own family or my own world, but my first play was actually about my mother," Wasserstein said. -
Wasserstein gave several words of advice and insight about the world of theater dur­ing the lecture. 
"Plays are private property, no word may be changed with­out the permission of the play­wright," she said. "Unlike in film, they also have rights over casting. In film, the power lies with the director and producer. This is why an audience will often know the name of the playwright." 
According to Wasserstein, one of the most important deci­sions a playwright can make is who directs the play. It is very hard to turn around if the directors have a different point of view, so you must speak up. 
Tuition •Increase scheduled By JENNIFER GIOVA News Writer  
In a recent letter to the Undergraduate patents. University President Father Edward Malloy announced a tuition increase for the 1994.; 95 school year. The overall increase in fees amounts to 6.4 percent, the Board of Trustees budget plan calls for a 6.5 percent increase in overall tuition and a 6.per~ cent rise in room and board fees. These increases brin:g the combined costs for tuition and room and board for .the 1994­95 school year to $21,000. The increase can· be attrib;.. uted to a raise in the cost ofliv­ing, according to Comiie Koloszar of the Student Accounts Office. ·· Vir< "The faculty and staff wages increase. The utility costs in the buildings increase. Any costs that··· relate to the University increase. The tuition increases· balance these costs." Koloszar .said. · Since these costs rise each year, tuition can be expected t6 increase yearly; However; the University Board of Truste~s is committed to lessening the tatt:~ of increases in tuition, Malloy  
see TUITION/ page6  

"If you write a comedy you won't know how it works unless you see it. If you are the only one laughing, you know that it doesn't work." 
In one of the first perfor­mances of "The Sisters Rosenweig," Wasserstein expe­rienced this humor first hand. 
"The audience was laughing but I thought that I had written something very serious. Thank goodness that they liked it, but is was very upsetting to me," Wasserstein said. 
Critics also are an important role in putting on a play. 
Among other things they are a way for readers to simply know what the play is about. But, according to Wasserstein, plays are ultimately about the audience. 
Wasserstein also reflected on her career as a playwright. 
"My mother never said to please be a not-for-profit writer and to please date actors," Wasserstein said. 
She did, however, grow up taking dance classes in hopes of becoming a well-rounded per­son. 
At an all girl's high school in New York she began her play­wright career. To avoid taking a gym class, Wasserstein wrote a play for the school mother/daughter fashion show, but she still never thought that she would be a playwright. 
Wasserstein then moved on to Mount Holyoke College in Mass. 
see LECTURE I page 4 


Blakey: Society at fault for MLK's death 
By DAVE TYLER 
Assistant News Editor 
The responsibility for Martin Luther King's death does not just lie with James Earl Ray, Notre Dame Law School Professor Robert Blakey told an audience at the Law School courtroom yesterday afternoon. 
Blakey, who served as coun­sel to the United States House of Representatives Select Committee on Assassinations during the 1960s, believes King's death should be exam­ined in a broader context than just the narrow legal view of culpability. 
"In the strictest sense of the law, James Earl Ray killed Martin Luther King," Blakey said. "But we. cannot ignore the broader, moral sense of the killing." 
The current legal system, ac­cording to Blakey, focuses heavily on the responsibility of the individuaL With the excep­tion of charges like conspiracy and aiding and abetting a 

Robert Blakey, L;:1w School professor and former counsel of the U.S. House of Representatives Select 
felony, sentences revolve 

Committee on Assassinations, discussed the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. yesterday in the around one penalty for one per­Notre Dame Law School courtroom. 

relationship examined 
By KATIE MURPHY 
Associate News Editor 
Last night the Faculty Senate voted down a resolution ad­dressed to University President 

FACULTY SENATE 
Father Edward Malloy and Provost Timothy O'Meara con­cerning allegations in the January 21 issue of the National Catholic Reporter (NCR) that Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy may have pressured the administra­tion six years ago not to hire controversial theologian Father Charles Curran. 
According to Richard Sheehan, chair of the Faculty Senate, Curran was formerly a professor at Catholic University in Washington D.C. Some of Curran's teachings were con­sidered contrary to traditional Catholic doctrine, and eventu­ally Catholic University dis­missed Curran from his posi­tion. 
Since it is under a pontificate charter, Catholic University is more closely related to the Vatican than most other American Catholic universities. Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, 

Pulitzer Prize winning author Wendy Wasserstein presented "A Life in  Vatican  head  of  the  
the Theater'' as part of the continuing Sesquicentennial Lecture Series  
yesterday in the O'Laughlin Auditorium.  see SENATE I page 6  

son who committed one crime. 
concerns such as these are 
The American legal concept 
paramount to understanding
of the super-intervening actor, 
the case. "A historical case, 
an event or person that inter­
based on social and political 
venes between parties in a 
history, can be made that im­
crime or action, helps to re­
plicates more than just Ray, 
move citizens from accepting 
"Blakey asserted. 
responsibility for a crime that 
Social ramifications weigh
does not directly involve them. 
heavily on the killing.
Concerns like social and politi­
"Immoral treatment of blacks is 
cal climate are completely over­
a tradition in this country,"
looked. 
Blakey said. 
In the King assassination, 
"Racism was entrenched in 
the Constitution, when it was decided that a black was only equal to three fifths of a vote," he continued. 
Slavery was allowed to pros­per under . this system, and be­came economically profitable as inventions like the cotton gin revolutionized cotton cash crop farming. While slavery died out in the North, it flourished in the South, as it was tolerated by the rest of the country. "This helped ingrain black inferiority into the white American psy­che," said Blakey. 
As Reconstruction ended after the Civil War, nothing changed. Blakey cited several records of massacres of Blacks in the South as they tried to exercise their newly granted constitu­tional rights. Even life in the supposedly free North demon-
see MLK I page 6 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-. 
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, April 7, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 


Do ethics mean anything to Do01ers today? 
"Life's Little Instruction Book" rule # 106: Never Cheat. 
This seems like such a Ann Blum basic suggestion and yet, 
Assistant Advertisingsometimes it is ignored. 
Manager 

Unfortunately, a prime example occurred recently in one of my classes. 
In this particular class, it is the professor's policy that as long as a student passes a test, he or she may take it again and try for a better grade. 
Knowing this re-take policy, a substantial portion of the class got together and devised the following plan: each involved student was to memorize three assigned questions and they would reconvene at a later time to type up a duplicate test. · 
The professor discovered what had tran­spired and as we gathered to take the re-test, he approached the topic. 
He honestly admitted that he was unfamiliar with the exact Honor Code policies and was at a loss as to what should be done. 
While I cannot quote the ensuing discussion verbatim, I do recall the final outcome. He granted full immunity to everyone who had participated in the affair and proceeded with the re-test as planned. 
I do not claim to be an expert on the Honor Code. Personally, I believe that such a premed­itated attempt to beat the system goes against its spirit. Clearly there was an element of cheating, and isn't that what we all promised not to do when we signed the Honor Code upon our acceptance to Notre Dame? If something like this is able to occur, maybe our Honor Code isn't doing as much as it claims to do. 
However, this situation is above and beyond whether or not there was a definite breach in the Honor Code. Even if there was no Honor Code in effect, cheating occurr.ed and according to the most basic academic principles, that is wrong. 
So why was the situation overlooked by the department? While the professor may be cor­rect in saying that there was no definable break in the Honor Code, surely he should rec­ognize that what happened was still cheating. 
I have always been taught that honesty and integrity will carry one far in life. Yet, the unethical behavior was rewarded this time. It is hard to compare my grade with others in the class and still believe that I did the right thing. However, I feel confident in my decision to refuse the duplicated test and justified in my anger concerning how the situation was han­dled. 
Most of all, I am disappointed that at an insti­tution of such high academic and moral stan­dards such as Notre Dame, something like this could happen. Am I the only one who read "Life's Little Instruction Book"? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production 
Corrine Doran John Lucas 
P~tti Carson Cheryl Moser 
Sports Kathie Young 
Mike Norbut Accent 
Viewpoint Lynn Bauwens 
Suzy Fry Graphics 
Lab Tech Chris Mullins 
!homas Zipprich 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Earthquake hits Southern California, few reports of damage 
LAKE ARROWHEAD, Calif. 

A strong earthquake centered near an area hit by a destructive earthquake in 1992 jolted Southern California on Wednesday, but caused no serious damage. 
The quake struck at 12:01 p.m. and measured 4.8 on the Richter scale. It was felt in downtown Los Angeles, inland desert areas to the east and south to northern San Diego County. 
The California Institute of Technology's seismology de­partment initially said the quake was an aftershock of the Landers quake two years ago. but later determined it wasn't. 
Wednesday's quake was centered six miles southeast of Lake Arrowhead, said Heather Lovasz, a Caltech spokes­woman. 
"It was pretty strong," said Jeanne Bradford of the Lake Arrowhead Communities Chamber of Commerce. "It was like the building got pounded. Two big jerks and little bit of rumbling." 
The only report of damage to San Bernardino County fire authorities was a 20-inch crack in a wall at the Morongo Valley fire station, said Mary Stock at fire com­mand headquarters in San Bernardino. 
There have been more than 60,000 aftershocks to the magnitude-7.6 Landers quake. The quake on June 28, 1992, was followed a few hours later by a magnitude-6. 7 quake in the Big Bear mountain area, about 75 miles east of Los Angeles. 
Those two quakes left one person dead, injured more than 400 and caused nearly $100 million in damage. 
Jackson visits museum after hours 
NEW YORK 

Michael Jackson at the Met? You bet. The man who recreated ancient Egypt for his "Remember The Time" video took an after-hours tour of the era's real artifacts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Jackson, accompanied by a small group, made the special nighttime visit to the museum's Temple of Dendur and American Wing on 


March 30, museum spokesman Harold Holzer said. "It was an unusual request," Holzer said Wednesday. "We have celebrity visitors all the time during regular hours. Woody Allen and Soon-Yi were here a couple of days be­fore Michael." Jackson's visit lasted several hours, Holzer said. 

American taken hostage by guerrillas 
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia 

Khmer Rouge guerrillas are demanding "millions of dollars" in ransom for an American aid worker, a gov­ernment official said Wednesday, but an international re­lief group disputed his report. The guerrillas detained Melissa Himes, 24, of Winston-Salem, N.C., on Thursday when she tried to settle a dispute over drilling water wells in Kampot province. Three Cambodians who also work for Food for the Hungry International, a Christian aid group based in Scottsdale, Ariz., were detained. In a note sent out Sunday, Himes said she was being treated well and that the guerrillas apparently wanted the aid group to drill three water wells in an area they control. Sin Sen, head of a special Interior Ministry police unit, said Wednesday that the Khmer Rouge guerrillas also were demanding "millions of dollars" to release Himes. A spokeswoman for Food for the Hungry, Karen Randau, said that was an exaggeration. "It's not anywhere close to that. I don't have the exact number but it's not any­where near that," Randau said. She said the relief group could not afford any cash ransom but was willing to do additional development work in guerrilla-held areas of Cambodia. "Our hope is that we will be able to continue to work in the area and dig more wells," Randau said. 

AP 

Egypt faces overpopulation 
CAIRO, Egypt 
Every 24 seconds the clock on Maher Mahran's desk clicks. Each click reminds Egypt's population czar that there's another new Egyptian. The seconds -and the critical challenge of overpopulation -add up fast. Every eight months, a million new Egyptians. Already 60 mil­lion share this ancient country bedraggled by modern woes: 20 percent unemployment and 50 percent illiter­acy, housing shortages, inadequate health facilities, ris­ing prices and a wave of violence by extremist Muslims. As minister of population, Mahran's challenge is to reduce population growth so that Egypt can develop eco­nomically and socially. It's a challenge keenly felt in most of the Third World and dictates the future of much of sub-Saharan Africa, where a tide of overpopulation has overwhelmed decades of development. 

Haitian army continues killings 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 
Secret prisons. Kidnappings and torture. Bodies left on streets for pigs to devour. Haiti's army and its allies have stepped up the pace of political killings, and pro-democ­racy activists, the few still willing to speak out, say the United States and other nations that support their cause have done little to stop the soldiers. U.N. observers report 112 summary executions and suspicious deaths since January 31, when 30 observers arrived in Haiti to monitor political repression. Twelve were disfigured and left on the streets as a message to others. "The violence comes from one side alone," the top U.N. human rights official in Haiti, Tiebele Drame, told The Associated Press. Drame said pro-military forces have -already snuffed out almost all pro-democracy protest and are going after people who support exiled President Jean­Bertrand Aristide. Two-thirds of Haitian voters chose Aristide in free and fair elections in 1990, and the pop­ulist'Roman Catholic priest remains the nation's most popular political figure 2 1/2 years after his violent ouster by soldiers. "There is a deliberate policy to eliminate Aristide partisans, to break the back of the pro-democra­cy movement and to terrorize the population," Drame said. 

NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, April 7. 
INDIANA Weather 
Thursday, April7 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
Pressure ~ 
H L B &SI ITIJ 0 ~§1). ~U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press 

Adanta 67 58 Denver 58 25 New York 51 37 Baltimore 68 53 Friendswood 74 49 Philadelphia 53 37 BOston 62 41 Los Angeles 74 58 Phoenix 84 55 Chicago 36 30 Miami 83 69 St. Louis 48 33 Colombus 41 36 Minneapolis 45 18 San Francisco 63 51 Dallas 60 35 New Orleans 66 58 Seattle 58 49 
Thursday, April?, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 





Zuchert: Philosophy needs to be 're-understood' 
By ZOE MARIN to Plato's thoughts and ques­including biology, had failed to News Writer tions. answer the old questions of Zuckert termed these philoso­how life came into being. Many philosophers have re­phers as "Post-Modern Ptatos" As a result, this question had turned back to the ancient who have reconsidered Plato's been forgotten by modern soci­philosophies of Plato, Socrates works and revived some of ety. 
and Aristotle in order to answer Plato's questions concerning Both Heidegger and Gadamer questions relevant to today's everything from the meaning of saw the importance of human society, said Catherine Zuckert, life to politics. dialogue and language as a key 
professor and chair of political in human intellectual develop­science at Carleton College. Nietzsche looked back to ment. 
"Philosophy has to be re-un­Plato mainly because "he knew Gadamer specifically believed derstood. Otherwise it's going he did not know," according to that "people wouldn't search to die," said Zuckert. Zuckert. It was the seeking of for what's truly good unless 
Zuckert pointed out that knowledge that was really they were shown that they many modern philosophers, worthwhile, not the actual dis­didn't already have it," she mainly Friedrich Nietzsche, coveries. said. 
Martin Heidegger, Hans Heidegger began by analyzing Gadamen, Leo Strauss and the modern sciences, Zuckert The unresolved relationship Jacques Derrida, had reverted said. He realized that sciences, between politics and philosophy 


GSU objects to workshop 
By EDWARD IMBUS The GSU referred the matter News Writer to the joint GSU/MBA/SBA The GSU also announced a (Student Bar Association) social gathering open to all 
The Graduate Student Union Committee of Fischer-O'Hara­graduate students this Friday (GSU) responded last night to a Grace Graduate Residences and at the Wilson Commons from 9 letter sent to all international voiced support for the working p.m. to 12:30 a.m. On ques­graduate students mandating committee responding to the tioning, the GSU Social Event participation in an orientation notice. Coordinator Tom O'Rourke prior to living in the Fisher confirmed that identification Graduate Residences next year. Reacting to a unfavorable let­will be required. 
ter to the editor published in 
The letter, which was un­The Observer from an ..aero­In other business, GSU repre­signed and not printed on space and mechanical en­sentatives plan to meet with University stationery, demands, gineering student and sup­Notre Dame administration of­"in order to promote communi­ported by 26 other graduate ficials to resolve a dispute cation, participation in one of students in that department, questioning whether or not these sessions ... for all return­GSU President Ed Wingenbach bonuses are allowed under ing international students who said that a reply had been sent University regulations. The wish to have on campus hous­to The Observer, but had not GSU believes they are. ing at Fischer, O'Hara-Grace. yet been published by the Non-participation will result in newspaper. After authorizing partial the immediate termination of funding for an African the housing contract." The letter accused the GSU of Students' Association event, the 
being "a minority group" not GSU also provided funding for 
The GSU passed a resolution working in the best interests of 500 more copies of a compila­stating that while a workshop graduate students and not rep­tion of abstracts by Notre Dame for conflict resolution and com­resentative of them, but simply graduate students. munication would be welcome, funding leftist organizations. the group objected to the letter Because of the amount of stu­Several thousands of dollars as "inappropriate both in dents signing the letter, most will have been unused by the requiring participation and in from a specific department, it end of the year, according to being directed only to interna­needed attention, he said, al­Wingenbach. The money will tional students." though he disagreed with its be kept for GSU's various ac­
premises. tivities next year. 
A Continuing Series for Graduate Students Presenting 
Dominic Vachon, Ph.D. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer 
at 631-5323. 
was another area touched by Zuckert. 
Plato believed that only those enlightened by philosophy should rule, as opposed to those who merely desire fame and fortune through politics. 
Derrida, on the other hand, shared Plato's views of politics and believed it wasn't rational to rule since truth and knowl­edge weren't attainable, only money and honor, said Zuckert. Those who desired knowledge should avoid politics. 
Struass believed that Plato's writings didn't reflect his true philosophical thoughts, but were masked in order to avoid difficulties with politicians. 

Zuckert personally addressed these tensions between politics and philosophy by asking how open political societies should be. 
"Does all criticism have to be secret or is constant criticism and analysis a necessary price for maintaining openness?" she asked. 
Zuckert is the author of two books and many articles relat­ing to modern American phi­losophy and is currently writing a third book. 
Zuckert's lecture topic reflected the subject matter for this new book. 

Military option left open for U.S. in Bosnia 
By BARRY SCHWEID Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration sent its top mediator back to the Balkans on Wednesday and said it was prepared to threat­en Bosnian Serbs with NATO air strikes to protect any Ukrainian peacekeeping troops sent to Gorazde. 
While the Pentagon this week appeared to rule out using air power to lift the Serb siege of the predominantly Muslim town in eastern Bosnia, admin­istration o1licials said that mili­tary assessment could be changed after a U.N. inspec­tion. 
A similar U.N. survey led to the ultimatum that forced the Serbs to end their siege of Sarajevo in February. But Serb forces blocked the top U.N. commander, Lt. Gen. Sir Michael Rose, from going to Gorazde. 
Instead, the British general went to Pale at the request of Bosnian Serb leaders to discuss the possibility of Bosnian cease­fire negotiations. 
Rose was considering whether to dispatch Ukrainian peacekeepers to Gorazde and then whether to recommend they be protected by threatened air strikes. 
The officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the Clinton administration would support the U.N. commander by asking the North Atlantic Council to back him up. 

Three U.N. military observers and eight of Rose's liaison offi­cers were permitted to proceed amid mixed reports about the fate of the town. 
At the same time, American diplomat Charles Redman was sent to Zagreb and on to Sarajevo this weekend to try to promote a settlement of the 2­year-old ethnic war. 
The Muslim-led Bosnian gov­ernment has reached an accord with Bosnian Croats on a fed­eration, but the Serbs, who control most of the territory in the former Yugoslav republic, are pushing their offensive against Muslim enclaves. 
White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers said, "We're looking at a number of ways to continue to deal with the situa­tion (in Gorazde) and in other places in the country, including possibly expanding the exclu­sion-zone concept .... It's some­thing that's been under discus­sion since it was successful in Sarajevo." 
Meanwhile, Rep. Frank McCloskey, D-Ind., just back from Bosnia, said the adminis­tration was turning away while Serb forces slaughter innocent civilians. 
A longtime advocate of more forceful U.S. action, McCloskey said he planned to brief White House officials on his trip and urge a shift in administration policy. 
Discussing Maximizing Academic Performance in Graduate School: 

A Workshop Using the Insights of Sports Psychology 
This Workshop focuses on techniques for: 
•
Handling performance anxiety in writing papers, taking tests or making presentations 

•Dealing 
with academic setbacks 

•Improving 
your confidence in your study strategy 

•Maintaining 
your concentration ~Improving your abiliry to pace yourself in your academic studies 

•
Focusing your energy more quickly 

•Maintaining 
Motivation when you're burnt out 


DATE: Sunday April lOth TIME: 4:00P.M.-5:15P.M. AT: Fischer-O'Hara/Grace Community Center 
Sponsored by: The University Counseling Center Campus Ministry Fischer-O'Hara/Grace University Village Graduate Student Union Refreshments will be provided! 


Friday, April 15th, at 7:00 p.m. in Corpus Christi Parish Hall off Portage Avenue 
-sit-down Polish wedding feast dinner­-hours of dancing­-cash bar­-two great bands, Sabor Latino & CRIPE Street-

CNv.\PUS 
MINISTRY 



-only $12°0 a person­-tickets on sale at LaFortune­
-~--------~------~--~---~-~------~--­
page4 
The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 24, 1994 


Wasserstein develops real-life experiences 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH News Writer 
Playwright Wendy Wasserstein, 43, doesn't have to look far for inspiration for her plays-her family and friends offer enough inspiration to keep her writing. 
"I use family stories for my plays...part of me thinks I'm very fortunate, part of me thinks it's war reparations," she said. 
Mixtures of her family and friends can be seen throughout her comic plays. Christopher Durang, fellow playwright and best friend was the inspiration for Peter's humor in The Heidi Chronicles, friends from Mount Holyoke College inspired the characters in "Uncommon Women" and her mother was the inspiration for the Jewish mother in "Isn't it Romantic." 
The people in her life make interesting characters; Wasserstein's success is a tes­tament to this. 
Her play "The Heidi Chronicles" won a Pulitzer Prize, a Tony Award, the New York Drama Critics Circle Award and the Drama Desk Award among others, and her current play "The Sisters Rosensweig" has played on Broadway for 12 months and recently opened at Washington D.C.'s Kennedy Center. 
The road that lead to her suc­cessful career was not a direct one, though. 
Wasserstein fell in love with the theater when as a child, her parents took her to plays after her Saturday dance lessons, but the performances always left her wondering "where all the women were." 
It wasn't until graduate school that Wasserstein made a definitive choice to change women's representation in the theater. 
At the age of 27, Wasserstein's first play, "Uncommon Women" found its way from a production in the basement of Yale Drama School to a theater in New York prominently displaying strong female characters in female roles and giving acting starts to Glenn Close and Jill Eikenberry. 
But the decision to become a playwright was not an easy one for Wasserstein to make. Raised in a middle-class Jewish family in Brooklyn, Wasserstein said that becoming an actor did not fulfill the dreams of her mother. 
"She didn't say I'm really anxious for you to have a life as insecure as possible both finan­cially and emotionally," Wasserstein said. 
At Mount Holyoke Wasserstein majored in hi&tory and dreamed of working as a legislative assistant in Congress, but she said that she fell asleep reading the Congressional Record. 
A friend convinced Wasserstein to take a play writ­ing class at near-by Smith College where the spark of the theater was renewed. 
"I always thought you had to look a certain way to be an artist, and I thought you had to write a certain way to be a playwright," she said. 
While taking writing classes at City College, she learned thaf writers did not have to fit the stereotype. 
"My mother told me that writers live in trash cans in Greenwich Village...I was happy to find out these men (her professors) had apart­ments," Wasserstein said. "It was difficult to decide to become an artist." 
Wasserstein applied to Yale Drama School and the Columbia School of Business and was accepted to both but made the decision to go to Yale. 
At Yale Wasserstein's class­mates included Durang, Albert Innauroato, Meryl Streep and Sigourney Weaver. 
Wasserstein's graduation from Yale and her subsequent success was based on more than the personalities of the people who surround her, often parts of her characters are au­tobiographical sketches. 
"I write plays to understand what is happening in my life," Wasserstein said. "I didn't write (The Heidi Chronicles) to be commercial, it was really for me.'' 
As Wasserstein herself grows, so do the characters in her plays. 
"I look at The Sisters Rosensweig and think that the person who wrote it is about 10 years older thah the person who wrote The Heidi Chronicles," she said citing her growth as an individual as the reason. 
Recently Wasserstein reread The Heidi Chronicles and to her surprise, she enjoyed it. 
"I thought 'I did that, hey its good."' She reiterated what the critics have been saying about Wasserstein for years. 


WEEKEND RACQUETBALL 
TOURNAM-ENT FRIDAY & SATURDAY APRIL 8 & 9 
JACCCOURTS MEN'S & WOMEN'S DIVISIONS T-SHIRTS TO All PARTICIPANTS BRING YOUR OWN RACQUET BALLS WILL BE PROVIDED REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS DEADLINE: THURSDAY. APRIL 7 S6.00FEE 
~~ 



Lecture 
continued from page 1 

and studied to be a con­gressional intern however she decided to pursue playwriting instead. 
"I thought that to be a woman artist you must look sensitive and be with ~ensitive type peo­ple and this idea had an enor­mous effect on me," she said. "I had to go out into the world and say '[ want to be an artist' and that is an insecure thing to do." 
Wasserstein chose to attend Mount Holyoke College for sev­eral reasons. 
"Besides going to a women's high school, I thought that if l went to an all women's college my mother wouldn't yell at me again." 
Looking back, Wasserstein 
considers attending a women's college something that she for­tunately stumbled into. 
"At a women's college I had 
an innate sense of confidence in 
my own voice, when I was not 
by nature a confident person." 
"My favorite times were on 
weekends when I just hung out 
and talked to people. There 
was no anxiety to get a date," 
she said. 

Wasserstein continued on to Yale University to earn a mas­ter of fine arts degree."The drama school there was differ­ent, you didn't know what would happen to you there," she said. 
While at Yale, Wasserstein wanted to see an all female curtain call. 
"After one play, someone raised his hand and told me that he didn't get into the play because it was all about girls," Wasserstein said. 
All Wasserstein could think 
was that for years women have 
been reading about mostly 
male characters in plays. 
"Eleven years later, The Heidi 
Chronicles won a Tony Award 
which shows how much things 
have changed in such a short 
period of time.'' 
"[Later] I started seeing plays where women were not fairly represented and I got angry about it," she said. "Someone said that life is a negotiation but I don't believe that I have to believe that." 
The Heidi Chronicles is a sad, feminist artist story which par­allels political and personal life. It was not meant to be a com­mercial play, according to Wasserstein. 
Wasserstein's presentation was the second in the Sesquicentennial Lecture Series featuring prominent graduates of women's colleges. 



-:ronight:! 
LIVE DINNER THEATER 
with NEIL SIMON's 

The Star-Spangled Girl 
Dinner is served at 6:00 in the LaFortune Ballroom. Just $8 buys dinner and a play! Get tickets at the LaFortune Infodesk. Tonight: April 7, 1994 

• 

SOPHOmORES FRESHmEn 
SEDIORS JUDIOBS 
"Achieving Your Best Performance in Undergraduate Study" 
<A workshop usjng the Insights of sport psychology> 
******************** 

This workshop is designed to provide undergraduate students in any discipline with techniques often used in sport psychology to help you achieve your best academic performance. It will focus on techniques for: 
t/ Enhancing and maintaining concentration 
t/ How to manage/juggle numerous demands on your time Handling performance anxiety In writing papers, taking tests or making presentations Dealing with academic setbacks Improving confidence in your study strategy Improving your ability to pace yourself In your academic studies Focusing your energy more quickly Maintaining motivation when you're burnt out 


Presented  by:  Dominic 0. Vachon, Ph.D.  
When:  Sunday, April  10, 1994  
1:15 to 2:30 p.m.  
Where:  Hesburgh Library Lounge  

Sponsored by: University Counseling Center 
-----------------------------------------------~ 
--------------~----------------------------------------------------·------­
Thursday, April 7, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Residents of Belfast not assured by quiet 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 
BELFAST,Northernireland 
The Irish Republican Army's 72-hour cease-fire may be in place, but many people here are resigned to more conflict. 
"Anybody who thinks the IRA have killed their last planted their last bomb doesn't understand what they're about," said Richard Ellis, a Protestant shopper tak­
ing advantage John Major of the cease-fire to browse in the city's oft-bombed down­town stores. "This conflict's gone on 25 years. Don't you tell me that if the Provies (IRA) call it off for three days that really changes 
anything," agreed Bridie O'Hara, a Catholic mother pushing her two young daugh­
ters along in a stroller. 
The IRA's allied Sinn Fein party says the truce is designed to give British leaders enough breathing space to agree to re­newed talks. 
Britain agreed last December with the Irish government, that Sinn Fein can join talks only af­ter the IRA ends its campaign against British rule of Northern Ireland. 
Prime Minister John Major's office said it would not respond to a letter delivered Wednesday by Sinn Fein, pressing for a meeting. 
For those who live here, Wednesday meant another day at a desk, in the welfare line, slogging through the rain to get the shopping done. More sol­diers than usual patrolled the streets on foot and in armored vehicles. 
The cease-fire has offered some people a few days' peace of mind -though for Catholics the fear of pro-British extrem­ists remains. And many assume the IRA will punctuate the end of its cease-fire with an attack somewhere this weekend. 
Few Protestants or Catholics see any hope in a central premise of the two govern­ments' Dec. 15 declaration ­that Sinn Fein can join talks only after the IRA effectively surrenders. 
"Sure, wouldn't we all like the IRA to give it up. It's all wishful thinking," said Jimmy Burns, 70, placing his bet on a horse at a bookmakers shop frequented by Protestants. 
Many people can't under­stand what the deadlock is all about, given that Britain admit­ted last November it had com­municated secretly with the IRA and Sinn Fein for the pre­vious three years. 
"The British have talked with republicans before and will talk with republicans again, because they have to if they want peace," said Gerry Holland, a community volun­teer in Catholic west Belfast, the anchor of IRA support in Northern Ireland. 
On the other hand, many Catholics see Sinn Fein's weeks of demands for "clarification" of the declaration as a poorly disguised appeal for negotia­tions. 
By JENNIFER ANTONINI 
News Writer 
Divorce, unwed mothers and single parent homes decrease children's potential to integrate successfully in society, accord­ing to Barbara Whitehead, au­thor of the article "Dan Quayle was Right" that appeared in the April 1993 issue of Atlantic. 
Whitehead referred to these ways of living not as alternative lifestyles, but as the "historical wild-card." 
As divorce rates rise, statis­tics show that half of the chil­dren raised in America will be raised in single parent homes. Marriage and parenthood are coming apart and new trends are concerned with adult de­sires, not with sacrificing for the sake of the children, said Whitehead. 
She added that it is the chil­dren who suffer most in these cases. "Children in single-par­ent families are six times as likely to be poor." They are more likely to suffer from emo­tional and behavioral problems and are at a higher risk for physical or sexual abuse. If the future includes rising divorce rates and increasing out of wed-lock births, "it does not look bright." she said. 
Whitehead pointed out that the American family is suffer­ing because the media is refer­ring to divorce as a "pathway to new beginnings." Our cul­ture offers easy divorces and often looks at unwed mothers as enviable and accepted, giv­ing them celebrity status. 
In the past, unwed pregnan­cies were seen as heartbreaks. The harsh, punitive system of the time led to a decrease rate 

Family decline discussed 

of illegitimate births, said the leadership class, especially Whitehead. This situation, for lawyers, doctors and the though, has changed in the pre­clergy . She urged them to sent with the "cultural assault remind families of how the of marriage." Whitehead child suffers in cases of divorce. insists that the well-being of so­Whitehead addressed "The ciety depends upon the compe­Disintegration of the American tent, stable families to raise Family" last night in the Notre strong citizens and workers. Dame Law School Courtroom. 
Whitehead closed her lecture The discussion was hosted by by offering prescriptions for the department of sociology. 

College Parle Condominiums Rental Units Now Available 
•1/4 Mile from Library  •Washer & Dryer Units  
• Brand NeW Appliances  • Large Closets  
•2 Bedrooms  •Covered Parking_  
• 2 Bathrooms  • Security System  

• Large Balconies 



272-0691 
Going Quickly • $660 per month 
page6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, April 7, 1994 
"scurrilous rumor," according to history professor Father
Senate 
William Miscamble. 
MLK 
continued from page 1 
strated old prejudices. 
The father of Robert Shaw, whose life was dramatized in the movie Glory, was a Massachusetts judge who deliv­ered a landmark decision that predated Plessey vs. Ferguson's separate but equal doctrine, noted Blakey. 
"Throughout the late nine­teenth and most of the twenti­eth centuries, the Civil Rights movement in the United States has been put down by a sys­tematic killing of its black pro­ponents by white Americans," Blakey said. 
This social climate helped to create a political attitude that brought down King, stated Blakey. 
"Not only did existing condi­tions make it acceptable for Ray to kill King, certain agents were heightening the prospects," he said. 
A program run by the Federal Bureau of Investigations called COINTELPRO was actively tar­geting certain political groups and individuals in the United States, like the Black Panthers, Communist organizations and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference along with King. 
"COINTELPRO was engaging in counterintelligence opera­tions against legal domestic civilian groups, completely overstepping their jurisdiction," said Blakey. 
An unofficial smear campaign was waged against King. It was fueled with information gar­nered from a wire tap on King's phone that COINTELPRO tricked the Attorney General Robert Kennedy into approving. Fabrications and stories about King surfaced on the desks of senators, congressmen, and even the desk of Notre Dame President Theodore Hesburgh, said Blakey. 
Unsigned letters were continued from page 1 
Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, apparently played a role in securing Curran's dis­missal from the university, according to Sheehan. 
Although Curran was viewed by many as one of the foremost Catholic theologians in the United States, most Catholic in­stitutions, including Notre Dame, did not consider him for a position after his dismissal. NCR claims that Chicago Cardinal Joseph Bernadin and others tried to bring Curran to Notre Dame, but they did not succeed because Bishop D'Arcy blocked the appointment. Curran was eventually hired by South Methodist University. 
This is the first time any fac­ulty members have heard about D'Arcy's possible role in the Curran situation. Many of the. Senate members want Malloy and O'Meara to respond to the claims since such activity be­tween the diocese and the University may undermine the academic autonomy of Notre Dame. 
"One must question why the local bishop became involved," said Sheehan. "As an academic institution, there should be a sense of maintaining autonomy in academics." 
Since the publication of the NCR article over two months ago, the Faculty Senate has dis­cussed the possible ways of ap­proaching the issue with the administration. Professors Michael Detlefsen, Richard McBrien and Philip Quinn drafted a resolution which would have requested that Malloy and O'Meara respond to the allegations. 
"The intent is not to blame anybody," said Detlefsen. "We'd like to have a response from our president on this. Our concern is not with the bishop. Our concern is with our own administration." 
Several faculty members were concerned that the reso­lution was too strong and im­plied that the NCR claims were true. Malloy should not be re­quired to respond to every 
"There is no evidence that Bishop D'Arcy ever interfered in an academic appointment at Notre Dame," said Miscamble. "(Malloy) has spent a good part of the last few years ... protect­ing academic freedoms." 
Detlefsen maintained, how­ever, that the resolution merely asks for a response to the alle­gations regarding the Curran affair. 
"It's precisely because we don't know that we want to hear," he said. 
Although finance professor John Affleck-Graves conceded that Malloy should not have to respond to every rumor that circulates, this particular situa­tion demands an explanation. 
"I think that unfortunately in this case it's a matter which stretches to the absolute heart of the academic institution ... I think we have to respond," said Affieck-Graves. 
Music professor Paula Higgins proposed a number of changes in the wording of the resolution in order to make it more "friendly," but her motion failed in a vote of 14-13. The unchanged resolution was sub­sequently rejected by a vote of 17 to 9. 
A number of senators pro­posed that a less "legalistic" form of communication, such as a Jetter, be drafted. There was nearly unanimous agree­ment that the question of ex­ternal interference in academic affairs must be pressed. 
In other business, the Faculty Senate approved a set of re­vised bylaws and agreed to continue to ask the administra­tion to release salary figures. In a Senate survey conducted re­cently, one-third of the employ­ees polled were willing to re­lease their salaries. 
"In general, the salaries were pretty much in line with the markets," according to Affieck­Graves. 
The Senate also passed a res­olution which requested that the administration make avail­able the interim report of the North Central Association ac­creditation team for Senate re­view and response. 


Tuition 
continued from page 1 
wrote. 
This year's increase is lower than last year's, according to Koloszar. She estimated last year's raise to be 7 percent, while this year, the tuition in­crease is only 6.4 percent. 
In an attempt to aid as many students as possible, the trustees have committed the University to enhancing schol­arship assistance, according to Malloy. "They have made this the number one priority of our fund-raising efforts," he wrote. 
Malloy recognized the diffi­culties that the increase might cause for many families, but he said that it is necessary to con­tinue the academic quality at the University. 
"I firmly believe that there is a uniqueness about what Notre Dame offers a young woman or a young man, a uniqueness that in the end makes their sac­rifices and those of their par­ents worth the investment in Our Lady's University," wrote Malloy. 
submitted to major newspapers across the country degrading King's character and works. Some were run as editorials. The Saint Louis Cable Democrat was one of the most vociferous in its FBI sponsored condemnations. Copies of sev­eral Democrat editorials were found in Ray's brothers' apart­ments. 
Blakey was quick to point out that none of these connections would stand up in court, and that he was not trying to prove the existence of a Kennedy style conspiracy plot. "No one was ever able to link any COIN­TELPRO activity with that of Ray," he said. 
The existence of conditions that allowed these events to oc­cur raises the issue of blame to a higher, moral level, Blakey maintained. "To the extent that we accept the racist society we live in, we are all responsible," he said. 
In the end, the broad issue of culpability is clear, Blakey as­serted. "Does the FBI bear some of the responsibility for Kings death? Yes. Do we bear some of the responsibility for King's death? Yes. Who killed Martin Luther King? We did." 
Blakey. who oversaw the House investigation of the Martin Luther King and Kennedy assassinations, spoke yesterday at the invitation of the Black Law Students Association and the Notre Dame Law School. His com­ments came just two days after the twenty-sixth anniversary of King's slaying in Memphis, Tennessee. 
Capitol 
Hill hails 

reforms 
By VLADIMIR ISACHENKOV 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Visiting U.S. congressional leaders praised Russia's adherence to market reforms Wednesday and said they would recommend that the House give more economic aid to Russia. 
The nine-member group is led by House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo.. and House Minority Leader Robert Michel, R-Ill. 
"Russia's leadership ex­pressed to us a strongly root­ed and sincere commitment to political and economic reform," Gephardt told a news conference. 
"We will go back and rec­ommend the continuation of the kind of support that is ex­pressed in the Freedom Support Act." 
The act is intended to encourage democracy in for­mer communist countries. 
Gephardt said the mood in the House for continuing aid to Russia was "positive:" but that "obviously we have our own budgetary problems and anything large-scale is not going to be possible." 

Flower Delivery 7 Days 


ftt~)' 0 1\.~th 
Super Saver Prices on Roses 
Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, 
Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets -Clocktower Square 
(219)277.. 1291

51408 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 
Phone Answered 24 hrs. 


ARCHERY MINI-COURSE 
TUESDAY & THURSDAY APRIL 12 & 14 
7:00 PM -9:00 PM JACCGYM1 
ALL EQUIPMENT WILL BE PROVIDED NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED REGISTER IN ADVANCEATRECSPORTS 
$6.00FEE 

If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a freshman or sophomore, you can still 
catch up to your classmates by attending Army ROTC Camp Chal­lenge, a paid six-week summer course in leadership training. 


ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 

Thursday, April 7, 1994 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page7 
Court unlikely to change Cli.nton offers praise 
By RICHARD CARELLI 
for Blackmon's service
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Harry Blackmun's successor will join a cautious Supreme Court with no dominant con­sensus builder and no obvious ideological direction. History suggests a new member is not likely to change that mix very quickly. 
New associate justices, no matter how chummy or ideo­logically on fire, don't exert much political power beyond their votes on the nine-member court. 
President Clinton last year hailed his first high court ap­pointee, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, as a forger of alliances. But it's too early in Ginsburg's tenure to know if she'll live up to that billing. 
Consensus-builder is a de­scription that also could fit George Mitchell, the Senate's Democratic leader. A former federal judge who's not running for re-election, Mitchell is men­tioned as a possible court nomi­nee, along with Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt and others. 
There are other potential roles for a new justice as well. 
"There's an opportunity for a new appointee to carve out a niche -becoming an intellec­tual leader and part of a dia­logue with (Justice Antonin) Scalia," Northwestern University law professor Martin Redish said Wednesday. 
On the current court, only Justice David Souter has shown more than a passing interest in taking on Scalia, a brilliant and 
John Paul 
Stevens Ill. Age: 73. Appointed in 1975. May inherit . Blackmon's title as court's most liberal member., 

outspoken conservative. 
"Souter might have the most horsepower other than Scalia, but he's not about to throw down the gauntlet like Babbitt might," Redish said. 
AP!Wm. J. Castello 
Scalia, however. often has proved too conservative for this conservative court. Only Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justice Clarence Thomas are reliable allies. 
By JOHN KING Associated:...:P..:.:re=ss:..________ 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton promised Wednesday to choose a nomi­nee "of genuine stature" to fill his second vacancy on a Supreme Court delicately split on major issues. He saluted re­tiring Justice Harry Blackmun as a relentless defender of the rights of everyday Americans. 
"The shoes are large," Clinton said as he wished Blackmun well in retirement and intensified his search for a replacement. "The role that he filled on this court is terribly important.·" 
Blackmun informed Clinton in January that this would be his last year on the court, so the president had a head start in his search for a successor. "Yes, I've been thinking about it," Clinton said. 
Clinton said he would fill the vacancy in "an appropriate and timely fashion," but aides said it probably would be several weeks before an announce­ment. 
Instantly, there was a flurry of speculation, and administra­tion officials did not dispute that Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell was high -if not atop -the president's list. Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt. who was considered for Clinton's first vacancy a year ago, also was mentioned. 
Mitchell said he had not re­ceived an offer but would cer­tainly consider one. Babbitt said he was not interested and had relayed that to the presi­dent. "I very much want to stay put," he said. 
A handful of federal judges also were said to be on Clinton's list of prospective nominees, including Appeals Judge Stephen Breyer of Boston, a runner up to Ruth Bader Ginsburg in Clinton's first search. Others were U.S. District Judge Jose Cabranes of Connecticut and Appeals Judge Richard Arnold of Little Rock, Ark. 
Several female judges consid­ered early in Clinton's initial search -a tumultuous three­month process the White House is anxious not to repeat -also are on the White House list of prospects. And one administra­tion official floated a fresh name as a long shot candidate: 
U.S. District Judge Ann Claire Williams of Illinois, a 45-year­old woman named to the bench by Ronald Reagan in 1985. 
Solicitor General Drew Days also was mentioned as a prospect, and some in the ad­ministration and Congress sug­gested Clinton might tap Attorney General Janet Reno. 
After 24 years on the high court, highlighted by his writ­ing of the landmark abortion­rights decision, Blackmun said it was time to move on and give someone else a chance to enjoy the "fantastic, intimate experi­ence." 
"My goodness, 85 is old," Blackmun said with a big smile. 
The search is being led by new White House Counsel Uoyd Cutler. Cutler said both Mitchell and Babbitt were prospects but also said Clinton's working list would "probably reach double digits." 







"The Relevance of the Apocalypse" 
Father Marie-Dominique Philippe, O.P. has spent most of his life as a professor of philosophy at the University of Fribourg in Switzerland. Likewise a· popular retreat preacher and a personal friend of Pope John Paul II, it was at the Pontiff's request that he accepted his present role as founder and superior general of a ·new congregation, the Community of St. John, although he remains a member of the French province of Dominicans. 

page8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April?, 1994 

University fresh01an steals council spot 
Teamsters initiate strike 
Associated Press care of," said Mike Mueller, 70,000 of the striking 
standing on a picket line in cold Teamsters. 
Up to 75,000 Teamsters rain at Consolidated O'Connor said he expected members went on strike Freightways in Tonawanda, the 18 regional carriers to sign Wednesday in a contract dis­N.Y., a Buffalo suburb. "If the agreements over the next sev­pute over the use of lower­nonunions get what they want, eral days. Under the arrange­wage, part-time employees, set­I ain't going to have nothing." ment, those carriers would ting up picket lines in the But Michael Wickham, presi­agree to pay the same terms as union's first nationwide walk­dent of Roadway Express, the larger companies when a out in 15 years. based in Akron, Ohio, said us­new contract is settled with the 
An industry bargaining group ing part-timers is "absolutely four remaining companies. said the smaller companies af­vital. We have got to find a way Consumers should see little fcted by the strike would be al­to reduce unit costs without immediate impact of the strike. lowed to sign tentative agree­harming our current full-time Many of the compa!J.ies haul ments before agreement is employees." The company em­raw materials and parts rather readed on a final pact. ploys about 18,000 Teamsters than finished products, and 
A few strikers were arrested nationwide. most supermarkets and food in the Northeast but no serious Charles O'Connor, a lawyer producers have their own fleets violence was reported. for the companies, said 18 of and aren't part of the dispute. 
"Everything is peaceful. It's the 22 companies will be al­The Big Three automakers unusually quiet, which is lowed to sign tentative agree­said the strike would have little good," said Millard Kizzia, ments with the Teamsters. The immediate effect on their op­manager of a Churchill Truck 18 are regional carriers, oper­erations. Lines Inc. terminal in Tulsa, ating mostly on the East Coast, Among retailers, Kmart Okla. He said the company where many nonunion haulers moves merchandise by air and wouldn't try to make any deliv­operate. rail, in addition to trucks, said eries until the dispute is settled. But O'Connor said the four spokeswoman Teresa Fearon. 
The walkout by up to 75,000 major haulers -Roadway, "We're probably set for a truckers, dock workers and Yellow Freight, Consolidated while," she said. mechanics against 22 trucking and ABF -would not negotiate The contract expired last companies began at midnight a new agreement until the week. The union agreed to ex­over a plan by the companies to union discusses the industry tend its strike deadline until give more work to low-paid, proposals on part-time employ­Wednesday for more negotia­part-time workers and use ees and the companies' desire tions, but the companies said trains more often. to make greater use of rail­last week's proposal was their 
''I'm out here because of my roads. final offer. family. I have four kids to take The companies employ nearly No talks were scheduled. 
By JULIA PRODIS Associated Press 
YPSILANTI, Mich. 

When City Councilman Geoffrey Rose turned over a voter list to a college freshman to help get out the vote, it didn't occur to him to ask the kid who he was getting out the vote for. 
It turns out, the 18-year-old Eastern Michigan University student was looking out for No. 
1: He got 32 write-in votes to Rose's 16. 
"It was a political move," Councilman-elect Frank Houston said Wednesday. "I wanted him to find out ... but late enough so I could win." 
To Rose, who thought he was running unopposed in Monday's primary, it was a prime example of "that dirty, sleazy, whatever-it-takes-to­get-elected attitude." 
"Frank is 18 years old and he's already acting like what most people in the country can't stand in elected officials," Rose said. 
Rose, a 23-year-old graduate of Eastern Michigan, had re­cruited Houston in December to 
Three Mile 
Island to stay open 
By MICHAEL BLOOD Associated Press help get out the vote. The stu­dent-dominated district has a history of low voter turnout. 
Houston, who plans to major in political science, seemed to have clout: He helped found the student government newspaper last fall and was running for dorm president and student senate. He won both school of­fices last week. 
Rose even pegged him as a future city councilman and said he'd return the favor some day. While he didn't pay him, Rose offered him a paid job on his campaign, which Houston de­clined. 
"Frank's a good guy -at least I thought so until Monday," Rose said. Houston said he never told Rose he sup­ported him. 
"I didn't purposefully try to back stab Geoff. I never once told him I was pushing for him to win, not once," Houston said. "All I ever said all along was that I was going to get peo­ple to vote." 
Houston said the incumbent would have won "if he had done what he was supposed to do" and campaigned on cam­pus. 
WASHINGTON 

Dismissing claims the public could be endangered, federal regulators have ruled that the emergency plan at the Three Mile Island nuclear plant is suf­ficient. 
A petition that sought to shut down the Pennsylvania plant's remaining reactor "has not raised any substantial health or safety concern," said a Nuclear Regulatory Commission staff report released Wednesday. 
"There is reasonable assur­ance that adequate ... protec­tive measures can and will be taken to protect the health and safety of the public" if an acci­dent takes place, said the report by William Russell, director of the NRC's office of nuclear reactor regulation. 
A petition filed by the Pennsylvania Institute for Clean Air argued that thou­sands of residents live just out­side the 10-mile emergency­planning zone around TMI. The plant is located about 10 miles south of Harrisburg. 
In an emergency, the zone "can and will be expanded if the conditions of a particular accident warrant it." The envi­ronmental group contended that chaos could occur if the area had to be evacuated fol­lowing a nuclear mishap. Robert Gary, an attorney who filed the petition, said the group was outraged and would seek congressional hearings. 
The decision came 15 years after the accident that crippled TMI's Unit 2 reactor. A $1 bil­lion cleanup has ended and there are no plans to restart the plant. 
The 10-mile planning zone has been an issue at other nu­clear plants around the nation. The Shoreham nuclear plant on Long Island, N.Y., was closed before going into com­mercial operation after a dis­pute over whether the area could be safely evacuated dur­ing an accident. 
I 
I 

ISE IT EVElY TIME rll MAlE ALDNC DISTANCE COlLECT CALL. 
Thursday, April 7, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page9 


Presidents of Rwanda, Burundi killed in crash 
ByANDREWKATELL 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

The presidents of Rwanda and Burundi were killed Wednesday in a plane crash near the airport in Rwanda's capital. Rwandan diplomats charged the plane had been shot down. 
Presidents Juvenal Habyarimana of Rwanda and Cyprian Ntayamira of Burundi had been in Tanzania for a meeting of east-central African leaders seeking ways to end ethnic violence in the two coun­tries. 
Rwanda and Burundi have been wracked by bloodletting between the rival Hutu and Tutsi ethnic groups. 
The plane went down while approaching the airport in Kigali, capital of Rwanda, ac­cording to Chinmaya Gharekhan of India, a special political adviser to U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali. 
The French Embassy in Kigali confirmed both presidents were killed in the crash. About 10 people were aboard and there were no survivors, the embassy said. Witnesses heard heavy­weapons fire around the airport shortly before the crash. 
Rwanda's U.N. ambassador, Jean Damascene Bizimana, told the Security Council the crash was not an accident but an as­sassination. He said the plane was hit by rocket fire, but did not say who attacked. 
Francois Ngarukintwali, the Rwandan ambassador in Brussels, Belgium, quoted the chief of staff of the Rwandan cabinet, Enoch Ruhigira, as saying that the plane was at­tacked. 
"It was shot down. It's true. It burned," Ngarukintwali told The Associated Press, adding he could not confirm the deaths. 
The Belgian news agency Belga quoted Ngarukintwali as 
Workers exposed to radiation 
Associated Press 
saying that the plane was a Mystere-Falcon belonging to Habayarimana. 
The African leaders had met Wednesday to seek a regional approach to end tensions in Burundi and Rwanda. 
Although the Tutsi make up only 15 percent of Burundi's population, they controlled the country until President Melchoir Ndadaye -a Hutu ­won the Central African na­tion's first democratic election last June. 

The Fourth Freedom Forum 
and the 
joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
Invite you to attend: 
BOMBS CARROTS AND STICKS 




April 8, 9, and 10, 1994 
Registration begins at 3:00p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Lobby Conference presentations take place at the Center for Continuing Education 
CONFERENCE SCHEDULE 
Friday, April 8 
7:00p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education (CCE) 
Auditorium 
CONFERENCE OPENING· 
Plenary Session "Proliferation and the New Nuclear Danger" John Holum, Director, U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency 

Saturday, April 9 
9:00a.m. 
CCE Auditorium 
Panel Presentation 
Moderated by Professor 11The Sanctions Instrument and its Relevance to Non· Proliferation" Raimo Viiyrymen, Director, Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, University of Notre Dame Margaret Doxey, author of Economic Sanctions and International Enforcement 
10:30 a.m. Lobby, Main Level, CCE Coffee Break 
10:45 a.m. CCE Auditorium Panel Presentation 
"Export Controls and Non· Proliferation Policy" Randy Rydell, Committee on Governmental Affairs, U.S. Senate 
Victor Mizin, Director, Department of Export Controls and Non­Proliferation, Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Moscow, Russia 
12,:30 p.m. Center Dining Area, Lower Level, CCE Luncheon and Keynote Address 
"Dismantling the Soviet Nuclear Arsenal" 
]ames Goodby, U.S. Ambassador for the Safe and Secure Dismantlement of Nuclear Weapons 
2:30p.m. CCE Auditorium Panel Presentation 

11 Initiatives by National and Multilateral Lending Institutions" 
Nicole Ball, Overseas Development Council, expert on initiatives by lend­ing institutions 
Klemens van de Sand, Director, Department of Development Planning and Donor Coordination, Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development, Germany 
Katsuhiko Oku, First Secretary, Economics Section, Embassy of Japan 4:15p.m. 
Lobby, Main Level, CCE Coffee Break 4:30p.m. 
CCE Auditorium Keynote Address 

11Lessons of the United Nations Weapons Monitoring and Destruction Mission in Iraq" 
David Kay, Former head of the IAEA 
Weapons Inspection Team in Iraq 6:30-7:00 p.m. CCELobby Reception 

Sunday, April 1 0 
8:00a.m. 
Central Dining Area, Lower Level, CCE 
Continental Breakfast 
8:30a.m. 
CCE Auditorium 
Panel Discussion 11AReport on the prospect of Sanctions Against North Korea" Rev. Paul Kim, Executive Director, Korea Church C~alition for Peace, Justice, and Reunification Susan Chodakewitz, Senior Policy Analyst, Defense Policy Center, Meridian Corporation 
9:45a.m. 
Lobby, Main Level, CCE 
Coffee Break 
10:00 p.m. CCE Auditorium Panel Presentation 
11The Prospects for Carrots and Sticks in South Asia" 
Neeraj Kaushal, Visiting Fellow, Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 
Amitabh Mattoo, Assistant Editor, The Independent, New Delhi, India; Visiting Fellow, Joan B. Kroc Institute, University of Notre Dame 
Haider Rizvi, Journalist, Daily DAWN, Islamabad Bureau, Islamabad, Pakistan; Visiting Fellow, Joan B. Kroc Institute, University of Notre Dame 
11:45 a.m. Adjourn 
IDAHO FALLS, Idaho 
At least 19 workers were slightly contaminated by radiation accidentally released at the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory. 
Thirty-four others will be examined. 
The worst contamination found so far was just 2 mil­lirems, spokesman John Walsh said Wednesday, two days after the leak. A chest X-ray gives a radiation dose of about 40 millirems, and a cross­country airline flight about 5 millirems. 
"So you can see this is a very small dose," Walsh said. 
The U.S. Department of Energy was testing 34 other people who were near the accident but farther away than the contaminated workers. Six workers tested were not con­taminated. 
The accident occurred at the Advanced Test Reactor, which has been shut for several weeks for maintenance. 
Radiation was released while workers were cutting a nuclear reactor control rod under water, Walsh said. The saw either slipped or gave otT an electrical arc, causing radioactive particles to break loose and become airborne. Workers were evacuated. 
"The particles may have been encapsulated in hydro­gen bubbles produced in the water by the cutting, and that might have allowed them to escape into the air," Walsh said. 
The reactor can produce high-energy neutrons used to bombard materials being test­ed for the Navy and to simu­late in a few months how the materials will perform over 20 or 30-years. 
It also produces types of ra­dioactive cobalt and iridium isotopes used for medical treatment and for non­destructive testing of industri­al materials. 
Walsh said the maintenance work, which involves changing major components of the reac­tor, has been postponed while the accident is investigated. 
Guanllng T-(PG13) 1:45, 4:15,7:00, 9:30 NaUd Gall 33 (PG13) 12:30, 2:45, 5:15, 7:45 k1 VIIIMll (PG13) 12:45, 3:00, 5:30. 8:00 
02: .._Oucb 2(PG) 1:00, 4:00, 6:45, 9:15 Milar 1Mp2(PG) 1:15. Ul, 7:30. 10:00 1111 Piper (Rl1:30, 4:45,7:15, 9:45 Gl8ldy (PG13) 10:00 

--------~------~-----~-----~~-----------~­





VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, April7, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters 
Managing Editor John Lucas 

News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Viewpoint Ediror ........................ Suzanne Fry Sports Ediror .................... George Dohrtnann Accent Editor............................... Mary Good Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Saint Mary's Ediror ............... Elizabeth Regan 
Business Manager Joseph Riley 

Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither instirution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the auchors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all membets of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Police respond to complaint 
Dear Editor: This letter is addressed to Messrs. Flynn and Hungeling: 
I am in receipt of your letter of March 18th regarding the events which had taken place at the Lafayette Square Apartments. The letter also contained your combined opin­ions of the incident, as well as, your opinion of the motivations of this Department. 
In your opinion, the students and the Police Department are once again at odds. Every time something happens it is attrib­uted to the unprofessional con­duct of the members of this Department and to some type of self-imagined grand scheme to embarrass or discriminate Notre Dame students. I have yet to hear you attribute any of these problems to the irrespon­sible and sometimes illegal con­duct of a few students. 
It seems that the only action that would be acceptable to this very small number of students and their spokesperson would be for the Police Department to totally ignore their activities. You and I both know that will not happen. 
I seem to recall that you and I have had this very same discus­sion on previous occasions. 
You and I both know that the gathering of March 17th was not a harmless series of individ­ual parties. It was a mass open house with a $10.00 admit­tance fee, which generated a substantial amount of funds. 
The South Bend Police Department did not plan the SUDS raid of March 17th. The raid was conceived and execut­ed by another law enforcement agency. The South Bend Police Department provided additional manpower per request, by way of a mutual aid agreement. 

The enforcement actions taken (arrests and citations) were for violations of State Law and not local Ordinances. As such, all fines, with the excep­tion of $3.75, revert to the State of Indiana. State Law man­dates that $3.75 of each fine be used for police training or equipment. Therefore, it is highly unlikely that the raid of March 17th was motivated by the desire to raise revenue. 
I am well aware of the contri­butions that the students make to this Community. just as I hope you recognize the benefits and services that the Community provides the stu­dents. In addition, you are well aware of my willingness and eagerness to work with you, the Student Government and all students to make your time in this Community an enjoyable and meaningful experience. 
You closed your letter with a demand for respect. I will close this letter with a demand for respect for the integrity of our neighborhoods and the Laws of the State of Indiana and for the Ordinances of the City of South Bend. 
RONALD MARCINIAK Chief of Police South Bend 
Columnist bases death penruty"views on myth 
Dear Editor: ...... .. "'' 

··lnb:er atticle·Jast W~dnesday·· ("Deidh penalty unfair to all." The Observer; March 30, 1994) Kirsten Dunne·arguest}lat the death penalty law is>unfair. She inferred numerous myths. and misconceptions astho ba~ sis for arguments in s*pport of the death penalty. .. < . 
To begin with, m(),~t p~ople,, regardless of wbat s1de of the issu~ they support,> are not in favor of taking a human life or contemplate taking a human life based on emoti<>,pal and "rettlbutive urges/~ •:Having said that I suggest Miss ·Dunne attempt to. separate herself from those satne urges she claims. are used by those in·· favor of the death penalty. 
Miss Dunne completely ig­nor~s the :rights • of tJ:te victitn (or victims), their families, and society. In eerti:tln situations 
ustice can.belough. a~dinthis case justice can app(lar harsh and unfair. This can obviously trigger manyemotional argu-
CoUJ)t ;firqe and Qm.e again.
Finally, she infers that only "bad» Catholics would be for the death penalty~·ff that were 
the case then·•at least half the University would fall into that category. Furthermore, I can unquestionably support an ab­solut~ rtght to life, and still agree without feeling any 
.,mql!a,! C()J!f'lit;t o!Jnterest. I also 
'The intent of the 
death penalty is to administer proportional justice on a case by case basis as determin~.d by a court of law. If the crime is so heinous, the justice should be applied pro~ portional to that crime.' 

. . of the nght to life debate, and the DeatJ:t penalty (both issues 

mept51 and PQi~ts ofvi~w. i)ffiiwaro cmp.pletely different. and 
NO~i:ltboless, the· tough· decl-X• should not be argued/debated sions ·have to be made. The· · together). · deathpenalty is not intep.dedto . Talk about retributive, sym­d!'ltet Pt}ople .from. cgtn.tnltti pathe*, .and e.. . nal yrges, I murder, etc;'~·tif itdid.tt do . . suggestMiss .. ne carefully not work). The intent of the examine her arguments, and death penalty· is to adflllnister ... only t~ee .the "empirical data" proportional justiel'? on .~ case ·she.~o proudly !->~ofesse~ ~s her by case basis as determilled by.· ··. basts for opposttion. Her essay a court of law. If the crime is more of the same "opposition (murder, rape, treaspfi1 drug,..,,..Jor t~e ~ake ofopposition" only dealing/pushing) is sq heinous. adds to the problem. not to the the justice should be applied·· solution, w 
proportional to thatcrime..... MissJJpnne. further st~.~;ms that\¥ the de~th pen~lty ls Yn(l.onstit»~ ·•· PJ. FERRARO tional, an argument ~hat bas Major, USMC not stood-upin the Sp.preme .NROTC 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
()}Ita/?. J<NOW5 R0/38 15 Wf:AK NOW. fie (.(}{)tp 8/iXJ!?YfilM 8AfJL.YIN 
7H& PRIMM~ T&ARING 7Ht; !J/3MOO?ATI&PAJ<TY APART.. , 
~ 
AN!? IFHe to38S AN!? RLJN5 As; AN INV&P&N!JfflT, 
50 MUt:H TH8 
88-TT&R! GU!333 WHO eeNff!TS fROM ITAJ.t.! 


me P&OPte 
OF VIRGINIA! 5/R! 
I 

''Jsimply ignored an axiom." 
-Albert Einstein on relativity (Attrib.) 





ACCENT 
Thursday, April 7, 1994 page 11 
MUSIC REVIEW ROB ADAMS 


SHE CAN SING, TOO 
Model proves she is not just another pretty face 
lii/!l"f;~d e.z.."f;s i.z.. 
~I&~d-y-, re~i-ve 
"f;Jie IIIeiiiories 
ByTANYA KRYWARUCZENKO 
Associate Accent Editor 
"Rudy" was a movie about believing in dreams which helped big-screen hopes come true for four students. 
For some Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students the 1992 filming of "Rudy" on campus was not just a chance to see Sean Astin walking around Notre Dame or the chance to see South Dining Hall with a real movie crew inside it. Some students had the unique oppor­tunity to make their big-screen debuts as extras in "Rudy." 
Notre Dame Junior Mary Heather Parch, signed up to be an extra because she thought it would be fun. She was chosen to be in the close-up scene of the stadium crowd at Rudy's big game against Georgia Tech. 
Parch explained that there weren't any rehearsals for her scene prior to the day of film­ing. The actual filming of her scene was after the last horne football game in November and took close to twelve hours, according to Parch. 
"It was also extremely cold out when they filmed it and I wasn't really dressed for the weather, because we had to dress in outfits from the 1970's," Parch said. 
Although it took twelve hours to film the scene, it was only in the movie for a couple of min­utes. "It was hard to tell how long my scene was when it fi­nally showed up in the film," said Parch. She explained that her scene was spliced in with the shots taken during half­time of last year's Boston College game. 
"I didn't expect to see myself on the screen, but it was enough to be a part of it. My favorite part of being an extra was seeing how they actually make a movie," she said. 
Saint Mary's Sophomore Lucy Ferber also thought being an extra would be an interesting experience. So she signed up to be in the stands for the stadium scene, but ended up being a booster on the field. 
"I thought it would be fun to be in a movie because you do not get the opportunity to do it very often," she said. "I liked drama in high school and I wanted to get a behind the scenes look of what happens in movies." 
Ferber and her roommate 

actaully have the same role in 
the film. She took Leanne 
Jones' place when she could 
not make the filming. 
"Since we both have red hair 

and look alike, I was chosen to 
replace her," Ferber said. 
"And, in the fmal movie scene, 
my roommate isn't shown in 
the scene, but I am." 
Notre Dame Junior Kendra 

Combe applied to be an extra, 
but never thought that she 
would actually get a part. 
"I did it because my friends 

were doing it and they kept 
saying that it was free money," 
Combe said. "I made $100 for 

By ROB ADAMS 
Music Critic 
To dismiss the talent of Milia Jovovich as a songwriter and singer simply because she is a famous model would be a grave mistake. 
The 18-year old London resi­dent of Ukrainian descent began to appear on magazine covers at the age of 11, but has made a smooth transition to the music scene with her debut release, "The Divine Comedy." 
Filled with plush, atmospher­ic vignettes, the album creates a living existence of Milia's dark poetry, which she decided to put to music just a year ago. 
Dealing with the myths and legends of love is no easy task, but Milia does not seem to notice. Her only fault as a vocalist may be trying too hard, which really does not hurt the music at all; set on melancholy meadows, its rnelodrarnatisrn embraces Milia's voice and raises it to the intense level necessary to support such a thespian style of delivery. 
The epitome of all this action is exemplified on "Gentleman who Fell," a lovelorn tale of suf­fering and loss. Milia's soulful moans are wedged in between dramatic string arrangements. Powerful keyboard highs, matched with the quick acoustic guitars flow under­neath the heights reached by Milia's vocals, like a stream through the world she's creat­ed. 
Milia's tattered English accent barely slips into her songs, but when it surfaces it only serves to expand her chords as the awkward approaches to the language give it an accidental fresh and vibrant tone. 
"Bang Your Head" features three different percussionists, highlighting its role in the song and conjuring a Peter Gabriel­esque vision. 
Milia's background vocals rise and fall sporadically, wrap­ping around fabulous dream­provoking keyboard ar­rangements. 
Both "Bang Your Head" and the psychedelic "Ruby Lane" revolve around the tug-of-war nature of the afterlife and recall the album's cover, which stars Milia in a lavish painting between heaven and hell, reaching up, but being held down. 
"Charlie" and its anecdotal quality hinge upon its theme of an abuser of drugs, lost beyond his control; careful, clever man­dolin and guitar arrangements spice up the story. "Reeling, spinning out of lies/Daisy vision in your eyes/Boat is sinking someone cries/You have left me to surmise/Your surprise," Milia hums. 
"The Alien Song (For Those Who Listen)" captures the raw yet etheral quality of Milia's voice. Through the song's mournful texture, her cry for help is delicately cushioned in layers of bass and slow, trippy groove. 
Obsession seeps into the pas­sionate "Reaching From Nowhere" which sheds its skin as it reaches a vivid climax and explodes into the first chorus with intense melody. 
One listen to The Divine Comedy is all it takes to under­stand why Milia has made the move to music and why she has been contracted to make five more albums. 
By fusing the range of Kate Bush, the power of Annie Lennox, and the surreal quali­ties of Enya, Milia's voice proves how real her songs are and can be heard all along the far-off land she has d. 

really just standing around in the scene." 
Combe was chosen to be an extra in the Corby's scene. However, preparing for and shooting the scene took almost seventeen hours. 
She said it was also hot in Corby's. She also explained that in order to further create a bar atmosphere, the extras who normally smoked were given cigarettes. 
However, every time the film­ing was stopped, the extras had to be given new cigarettes and had to relight so the cigarette was at the exact same point when they had stopped filming, for consistency. "By the end of the day, the smoke began to get to me." 
"In the movie, my version where I was close to the bar was cut," she said. "I was so upset because people would have gotten a good view of me in the movie." However, she could see herself in the bar background. 
Combe said she enjoyed her experiences as being an extra. "It was a new experience and I also got to meet a lot of new people on campus, whom I'm friends with now," she said. 
Notre Dame freshman Jen Sutton was still a senior at Saint Joseph's High School when they were looking for extras, but saw the ad in a local paper and decided to sign up. 
"I thought it would be an interesting experience because I've always been interested in theater," Sutton said. "Also, nothing much goes on in South Bend and this sounded really unique." 
Sutton was chosen to be in a dining room scene and the scene in front of Lyons Hall when Rudy talks to a girl on a bicycle. 
Sutton said she especially re­members her costumes she had to wear. "I looked like my mother did in the '70s-with blue eye shadow, these five­inch high-heeled boots and tight bell-bottoms," she said. 
She also was able to meet Astin. "He'·s very nice and a sweetheart." 
Sutton said that she remem­bers anxiously waiting to see if her scene would be in the movie. It did and lasts about 30 seconds. She said she can see the back of her head in the movie. 
"It was kind of nice to see 
myself in the movie because not 
everyone gets the chance to be 
in a movie," Sutton said. "I can 
tell my kids I was in 'Rudy' and 
I'll always be able to show peo­
ple I was in it." 
"I've only seen the movie once, but I'm going to buy a copy of it when it comes out and I'm going to see it this weekend," she said. 
--------~----~----------....,
---------------~--------------------------...,.,.... 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April?, 1994 


Officials curbing cocaine use in horses Tennis 
Associated Press and the board is taking extreme Tammaro, was fined $500. tives in post-race urine tests on continued from page 20 measures because we want to The stimulant was discovered harness horses." CHICAGO nip this in the bud,'/ Racing during spot checks of the hors­Among those suspended freshman Erin Gowen. 
"Lisa and Erin were hurt by

The Illinois Racing Board is Board executive director es' tongue ties, which are cloth Tuesday was Jere R. Smith Sr., taking extreme measures to Joseph Sinopoli said bands used to keep the ani­the second-leading trainer at ankle and knee injuries 
against Clemson, and weren'teliminate the use of cocaine to Wednesday. "We do not have a mals' tongues from rolling back Sportsman's Park with 15 win­able to play against Georgia," stimulate race horses. substantial history of cocaine into their throats during races. ners. Smith was suspended for said Louderback. "Luckily, weThe Racing Board ordered doping -only four or five cases Among 222 tongue ties tested 30 days and fined $500 after have a lot of talented playersmandatory pre-race saliva tests in recent years, with 11,000 for cocaine, 32 tested positive, his horses tested positive three who were able to step up and

for. all horses at Illinois tracks races a year -and we don't Sinopoli said. The positive tests times, Sinopoli said. take their places." because traces of cocaine were want to have one now." were on thoroughbred horses Smith denied any connection 
Louderback was especiallyfound in the mouths of 32 race The effort to stamp out the from Sportsman's Park and with the drug. pleased with his team's per­horses. doping expanded Wednesday harness horses from ''I've never been near any formance against top-ranked 
Authorities also have ordered when stewards at Sportsman's Hawthorne, Maywood and cocaine and plan to fight this Georgia. several thoroughbred trainers Park handed out fines to four Fairmont Park. deal to the limit," Smith said. "I "I thought we played real and four harness trainers sus­more owner-trainers and sus­"We started testing the would never jeopardize my well against Georgia," he said. 
"Again, there were a lot ofpended and fined because pended three of them. tongue ties for cocaine Jan. 20 position as one of the leading · tight matches that could havecocaine was detected in horses Jere Smith Jr., Alan Crocker after we got word from Cana­trainers and use cocaine." 

gone either way. I definitelythey handled. At least nine and Gerald Butler each were dian authorities in Alberta that Thoroughbred trainers think we could beat Georgiaother harness trainers have fined $500 and suspended for cocaine was showing up in Charles Bettis, Tom Tornillo on another day. 

been fmed $~00 each. 30 days, the stewards said. The horses there," Sinopoli said. and Darren Heinrich also were "(Senior) Christy Faustman"This is a significant problem, fourth owner-trainer, Michael "We also had four cocaine posi-fined $500 each. 
lost a real tough, three-set match, and Wendy played tough against a girl (Angelia Lettiere) who has been ranked 

Dudley trying to do double duty for Buckeyes 
first nationally at different times in the year," he contin­By RUS1Y MILLER might happen later on." said, "The thing you worry he wanted to find out how good ued.

Associated Press Dudley, a starter in 21 games about with a guy like Rickey is he could be in football? Or was 
Assistant Georgia coach 

as the basketball team went 13-he hasn't played football for a it because his future in basket­
Mark Guilbeau was also im­COLUMBUS, Ohio 16, averaged 3.5 points and 3.8 while. But if you're a player like ball, where he was a solid pressed by the Irish perfor­For most of the 90 or so rebounds a game. But now he he was in high school, and if defensive player but rough on mance. 

hopefuls going through spring considers himself a football you had that aggressive atti­offense, was limited? 
"These are the type of football drills at the Woody player frrst. tude and the physicalness to "I felt basketball was where I matches we want to play," Hayes Athletic Center, the 15 "It's pretty much that I've make contact, naturally that's was happy. Of course, I was said Guilbeau. "They forced practices will offer a chance to committed to football more something you're going to take happy. I don't have a problem us to play at our highest show what they can do. than basketball," said the 6-with you." with basketball. It's just that at level." But for Rickey Dudley, they foot-7, 235-pound power for­When Dudley was recruited this time I'm ready to play foot­The Irish will try to bounce back this weekend as they face 
present a window into what he ward-turned-tight end. "Right out of Henderson, Texas, he ball to see how I do," Dudley 
28th-ranked Tennessee at

used to do. now my main focus is football. was the reigning Class 4A play­said. 
home on Sunday.

Dudley, a starter and co-cap­That's why I'm here." er of the year in football. Many Ohio State basketball coach "These last four matches aretain on Ohio State's basketball He doesn't come to the grid­recruiters told him his future Randy Ayers said, "He felt he 
key matches," said 

team, began spring workouts iron as a rookie; he was all­was football, but he said he had to see if he could handle Louderback. "We've had a lot Tuesday with the Buckeye foot­state in football and basketball liked basketball better. the situation. But to give it a 
of good wins a"ainst top

ball program. back in high school. legitimate shot, he had to be in 
,__ teams, but we have to keep it 
"Basically, these three weeks "He's an athlete; you don't He played basketball for a spring drills." up." are more of me learning and have to be very smart to figure year at a military school prior The dalliance with football To change this losing trend, getting the feeling back for that out," Ohio State football to his three seasons on the will severely hamper Dudley's Notre Dame will again need football," Dudley said. "If in coach John Cooper said. court at Ohio State. contributions to an already these same netters to step up. three weeks I can get that feel­"Obviously he can catch the Dudley decided to give football depleted basketball team. He For, as the Irish have discov­
ered, one serve or volley could 

ing back, if I work hard enough ball, he's got good hands." a shot soon after the basketball intends to stay with the football 
determine the ending of

in the summer, no telling what Tight ends coach Lee Owens season ended. Was it because team through the season. 
another David-Goliath story. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up  COLLEGE PARK  Loving couple longs to share our  
NOTICES  Help1!1 A purple Columbia jacket was taken from 126 Debartolo on  to $2000+/rno. on cruise ships or land-tour companies. World travel.  CONDOMINIUMS -1/4 mile from library  QUEEN box springs excellent quail· ty, like new! $100 or best offer.  lives and love with your newborn. we know you don,t have an easy  
March 28 and I'm very cold. I am  Summer & full-time employment  -New appliances  call heather, 234-2846.  choice, but our home will provide  
offering a reward for its return or the  available. No exp necessary. For  -2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms  your baby a future of love, happi­ 
TROOP NOTRE DAME  return of my glasses. Please call  info call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584  -Washer & Dryer units  ness and security. Call Susan & Jim  
Sean at 631-8839 to claim your  -Large closets  Acoustic guitar  219 289-4412  
reward.  Companions for summer trans-US  -Covered parking  $190 X2289  
Dancers Needed for  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  bike tour 273-6109  -Security System  Want to go to Miami, OH this  
St. Ed's Carnival!!  ·Large balconies  weekend? Call Meg 4-2117  
-----lUnits now available- IMMACULATE 2 BDRM HOME  
Meeting: Tues, 4-12  Found- NEAR CAMPUS. $29,900. GILLIS  
- @ Rock 219 8 pm  Gold Bracelet at The Village Landing on Friday March 25. Call  GOLF COURSE NEEDS HARD­WORKING, CONSCIENTIOUS,  $660 per month ..... Going Quickly!! ********CALL: 272-0691 ..........  REAL1Y 272-6306,232-1466  I'm sick of sittin' around here  
to identity @ x0915. Ask for Ryan.  EARLY RISERS FOR SEASONAL  Tryin' to write this book.  
$$ FOR BOOKS @ PANDORA'S  EMPLOYMENT. 45 HAS/WEEK.  College Park Condos 2BR, 2 Bath,  I need a love reaction,  
everyday but sunday until 5:30pm  EXP. PREF.  Attn Seniors Move from Dorms to  w/ appliances $59,900. Send into to  Come on baby please give me just  
233-2342 ND ave & Howard  FOUND: Black Casio Watch on  GOLF PRIVIL.  Wrigleyviile, avail May 1 for 1 yr  P.O. Box 4075, South Bend, IN  one look.  
4/4/94 in front of Fisher/Pangborn  287-1996.  lease· Large 3 BR in graystone two  46634  
on the quad. If it is yours call Erika  flat, new kitchen with DW, & dispos­ 
Applications for  at 4-4059.  Are you INTERNING or WORKING  al. New bath, easy street parking,  ROB· Have you decided to return  
in WASHINGTON DC this summer?  close to el. WID included. Louis '84  LOFT AVAILABLE:  to campus yet or are you still bask­ 
SOPHOMORE CLASS COUNCIL  2 females are looking for room·  1080/mo 312/472-7775  Builder's Square kit, call to arrange  ing in the sun in some foreign land?  
(Class of '97)  Lost: Gold Bracelet  mates or info on housing/apart­ for storage 2448  Just wondering if you've left for  
A men's gold, rope chain bracelet  ments. Call Kelly x4270  good or if you're ever returning to  
are available in the Student  was  1, 2, & 3 BEDROOM HOMES.  the snow covered South Bend!!  
Government Office!  lost somewhere on campus. If  ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER  NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE  '85 Alta Romeo Spider Convert.,  Love, Melanie •  
found,  EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO  NOW & FALL. STARTING AT  5-speed, $2,900. Call277-3068  
Apri11-8  please call Keith @4·1824.  $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­ $225. MO. GILLIS PROPER­ 
All applications due the 8th. Questions? Call John x1975 ILOST & FOUND l  WANTED Looking for 1 or 2 roommates for  NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC· ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN­TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 extA29.  TIES.272·6306 Don't delay! Call today! Reserve your Hertz Penske truck now to make your move home this summer  TICKETS HELP!! I need extra grad. tix call PIER 273-4909  Do you have Thur-3/31 Letterman w/ Madonna on tape? If so, please call 284-5065, also would like Fri. 4/1.  
- FOUND: long gold necklace with  fall semester 1994. I currently have a 2 bedroom/2  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Earn up to  easier. Ask for Kelly or Judie at ;'o~~-414tohelpyouscheduleyour  I PERSONAL  BOOKSTORE XXIII:  
small crucifix pendant. Found in Debartolo student/faculty meeting room 158. Call4-t675to claim.  bathroom apartment (with washer and dryer) at The Pointe. I also· have living room, dining room, and kitchen furniture.  $8,000+ in two months. Room & Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary! Call (206)545·4155 ext A5584  FOR SALE I  We are a young white Christian  Be a part of the ACTION!! Contact John Neal@ 271-1706 or Mike Hanley @x1175to be  
couple in their thirties, who live far  Schlage,  
' FOUND BOOK '  Rent is approximately $640, to be  CO·ED SUMMER CAMP IN MAINE  MOVING SALE II White leather  away from the busy city life on 2000  My White T-shirt or Little Rabbit  
"PEACEWORKS"  split 2 or 3 ways.  seeks staff from 6-17 to 8·21 to  couch w/ a-size fold-out bed,  acres. Tremendous amount of love  Fufu gets his head bitten off.  
found in B1 lot behind the  teach athletics, tennis, ropes cours·  home-entertainment center, coffee  is waiting for the special child we  
Univ.Ciub call#8210 to claim  Call Whitney at 288-5205.  es, rock climbing, backpacking,  table, Q-size bed, dresser/mirror,  look forward to adopting. Call Brent  
swimming, fishing, sailing, waterski­ night stand, high·boy dresser,  or Tina at1·800-206-7727.  ATTENTION ND/SMC BALLROOM  
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­ ing, performing arts and many  glass/iron table w/ chairs & morel  DANCE CLUB MEMBERS: Class  
""Found -Cassette Tape""  mer. Maritime Services 1·208·860­ more. Age 20+. Contact Camp  Call273-1984.  this Thursday is at Lori's house.  
I found a 'greatest hits' tape Friday  0219  Wekeela's winter office at1-800­ Meet at the LIBRARY CIRCLE at  
night in the faculty parking lot in  959-3177.  APRIL 15&16 at CHEERS on 31 in  7:45 and we will carpool. Ques?  
front of Stepan. It was in a Camelot  Roseland. APRIL 29 at Midway  Call Laurie 4-3490.  
Music bag. Call me and identity the lame artist on the tape and I may  Summer Resort Jobs -Earn to $12/hr.+ tips. Locations include:  FOR RENT  '91 Red Mercury Capri Convertible. 33K, Power locks, AM/FM Cassette  Tavern (MARTHA'S). DON'T miss out. Fun starts at 10.For more  
give it back to you, along with a lec­ Hawaii, Florida, Rocky Mountains,  A/C. Call 233·5773.  information on gigs and parties  Future Castle Point Renters:  
ture on music.  Alaska, New England, etc. for  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES·  cail237-9702. Ask for LENNY.  don't get an apartment with a loft if  
Ryan -­288·3952  details call: 1-800-807-5950 ext.  ND/SMC EVENTS  1985 Ford LTD White 96k mi. new  U*****"'*"'***KATHARSIS"*****frU***  you've got a selfish roommate living  
R5584.  (219)291-7153  battery $1200, 277-7405  in itl!llll  

Thursday, April?, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
SPORTS BRIEFS


Pittsburgh, Lemieux skate past Devils 
Associated Press obviously real concerned with the league and what's been PITTSBURGH happening the last couple Mario Lemieux wants op­years," Lemieux said. "I think posing teams to leave him they understand they have to alone. The New Jersey Devils open up the game a little more. complied. Sometimes it's not the referee's 
Lemieux shrugged off a fine fault, it's just the system that and warning from the NHL to they're in." score two goals with an assist The Penguins have won four 
and lead the Pittsburgh consecutive games for the first Penguins to a 3-1 win over the time this season and the Devils Devils on Wednesday night. have their first three-game los­
Earlier Wednesday, Lemieux ing streak. was fined $500 and warned for Devils coach Jacques Lemaire his outburst against referee traced this defeat to his team's 
Kerry Fraser in Monday's game willingness to meet Lemieux:s against Tampa Bay. The inci­hands-off policy. Lemieux was dent earned him 22 penalty alone for one-on-one confronta­
minutes, including his third ca­tions with goalie Martin reer game misconduct. Brodeur and won both. 
Lemieux also criticized NHL "You can't leave him alone officiating in interviews Tues­with the puck," Lemaire said. day. "He knows what to do with it. NHL disciplinarian Brian He has great hands. Two things 
Burke stopped in Pittsburgh on can happen: either the goalie his way to the west coast and makes a great save or it's in the met with Lemieux on Tuesday. net." 
While Lemieux got the fine and Lemieux scored for Pittsburgh warning, he also got a chance on a power play 21 seconds and three more games to get tight tonight, real well defen­to air his views about the the second 100-point season in sively, and we want to continue
into the second period. He took 
and team history.
clutch-and-grab style Kevin Stevens' pass at the side that." heard the league's explanation. of the net and lifted the puck "We're playing real well the Lemieux scored a similar goal "Mr. Burke was real un­over Brodeur. last three or four games," at even strength at 16:43 of the derstanding of my situation and The Penguins have 99 points Lemieux said. "We played real second. 


Lou Holtz 
speaking on ''How to Achieve Success'' 
·-­
.._. 




Chicago takes one from Toronto, Red Sox nip Tigers 
Associated Press 
Robin Ventura and Darrin Jackson each homered twice­with Ventura hitting his fifth career grand slam -and the Chicago White Sox routed the Toronto Blue Jays 9-2 Wednesday night. 
Chicago hit five home runs as it beat Toronto following con­secutive losses to the Blue Jays in the season's first two games. Ventura twice touched off con­secutive home-run bursts, frrst in the fourth against Pat Hentgen when Dan Pasqua fol­lowed. 
Jackson pinch hit for Pasqua following Ventura's grand slam off Paul Spoljaric in the seventh and homered, then hit another in the eighth off Scott Brow. 

Wilson Alvarez (1-0) won his eighth consecutive regular-sea­son decision, his ninth overall including a victory in Game 3 of the AL playoffs against Toronto. He allowed one run and four hits in seven innings, struck out four and walked three. 
John Olerud led off the fifth with a home run for Toronto, and the Blue Jays got another run in the eighth on a passed ball by Mike LaValliere with Roberto Alomar on third. 
Hentgen, who allowed three runs and six hits in six innings, fell behind on Frank Thomas' RBI single in the third. 
Angels 4, Twins 1 
John Dopson, unwanted in the offseason after losing his last six decisions in 1993, pitched seven innings of four-hit ball Wednesday night and the California Angels beat the Minnesota Twins 4-1. 
Damion Easley hit a frrst-row home run in the fourth inning, and Bo Jackson singled home an eighth-inning run for the Angels, who have opened the season with two victories over the Twins. 

It was the first win since last July 8 for Dopson, who went 7­11 for Boston last season and drew little interest on the free­agent market. California signed the 30-year-old right-hander to a minor-league contract and he made the club in spring train­ing, gaining a $400,000, one­year deal. 
He struck out seven and walked four before Joe Grahe relieved. Grahe gave up Kent Hrbek's eighth-inning RBI sin­gle but went on to gain his first save. 
Twins starter Jim Deshaies lost despite allowing only one run on six hits over seven in­nings. 
With one out in the fourth, Easley lofted a fly that left field­er Alex Cole momentarily lost in the lights. Cole spotted the ball, sprinted back to the fence, leaped and just missed the catch as the ball settled into the front row of seats. 
It might not have been a homer in previous seasons, when a 6-foot-high plexiglas wall sat atop the left-field fence. 
Tim Salmon then walked and went to third on Chili Davis' double, bringing up Jackson. After chasing a high, outside pitch for strike three, Jackson snapped the bat in half over his right knee. 
Jackson struck out twice and also was thrown out after try­ing to stretch a bloop double into a triple. But he got rid of his frustrations when his two­out single off Carl Willis scored Salmon. 
After Hrbek's single made it 2-1, the Angels got two runs in the ninth off Mark Guthrie when Gary DiSarcina hit an RBI double and scored on a wild pitch. 
Red Sox 5, Tigers 4 

Two games into the season, the unbeaten Boston Red Sox have some instant heroes: three newcomers and a seven-year veteran who can't figure out why he was a villain. 
Dave Valle got the winning two-run triple in his second game with the team, and Ricky Trlicek got the win in his first appearance as the Red Sox beat the Detroit Tigers 5-4 Wednesday. 
Otis Nixon, a free agent from 

~ 
Atlanta, was the star of Monday's season-opening 9-8 victory, scoring the decisive run and making a brilliant running catch. 
"Hopefully, that's why they brought us here," said Valle, a free agent from Seattle, "to do the things that we do to help a ballclub win." 
Mike Greenwell has helped Boston win a lot of games but was booed Monday when he went hitless and failed to catch a ball as he crashed into the wall. He was cheered Wednesday when his three-run homer in the fourth tied the score 3-3. 
He pumped his fists as he rounded the bases but denied the homer felt better because of the booing. 
"You want to get that first hit behind you. I want to get us back in the .ballgame," he said. "The quicker this (booing) becomes a non-issue, I think the better for the ballclub.... I just don't understand it." 
Detroit threatened in the nfth with runners on first and sec­ond and one out when Trlicek, claimed on waivers last Friday from the Los Angeles Dodgers, replaced starter Frank Viola. 
He struck out Travis Fryman and Alan Trammell. He started the sixth by striking out Mickey Tettleton, then got Danny Bautista on a popup and Chad Kreuter on a groundout. 
"We played together last year in L.A.," Detroit's Eric Davis said. "He has a good sinker and slider. He isn't scared of any­one." 
"I was pretty pumped up out there," said Trlicek, who retired all five batters he faced. 
SCREAMIN', WAlLIN', AND FAST FINGERS ... 
TIHriB 
C(Q)J1J1JEGIIA1riB JJA~tz IFJE®1riiWAJ1QQQ 
COMING APRIL 8TH AND 9TH TO STEPAN CENTER••• 
IFIR~J[JD).A\ Y & §LA\1r1U~[))A Y NTICGIHI'lr = 7~~(Q) IP'M §A1r1U~JD).A\ Y AlF1riE~N(Q)(Q)N = 1I.~(Q)«D IP'M 
REGULAR  ND/SMC/HC  
ADMISSION  STUDENTS  
810  S4  
85  82  
88  sa  
815  85  

TICKET PRICES: 
FRIDAY NIGHT 
SATURDAY AFTBINOON 
SlllJRDAY NIGHT 
ALL SESSION PASS 

APFile Photo 

Mike Greenwell overcame the boos of Boston fans to hit a three-run home run, lifting the Red Sox to a 5-4 victory over the Tigers. j·-"---·---------------------, 
S~?~ 


liD~ ~ n®~ ml0.1J.ill ~ 
IPib7JJmJ n lN!IT ~~ \W£&IK 
SATURDAY, APRIL 9, 11:00 AM AT STEPAN CENTER ROAD 
T-81URTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $3.00 IN ADVANCE $5.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT ~\ 
©mrn.IT~1r~ mm ~ffill& )J. 
SPONSORED BY . I ~~ ~·... I -----------------·---_j 
Thursday, April?, 1994 The Observer • BASEBALL page 15 
Dibble injured, could miss three months etswin 
-

By JOE KAY test March 21 found no serious Associared Press injury to the shoulder. Johnson . didn't believe the test results. 
third-··· 

CINCINNATI "You just flat-out know 
Manager Davey Johnson isn't there's a problem," Johnson surprised that Rob Dibble said Wednesday. "I don't need 
·straight
needs shoulder surgery. He an MRI. I don't need all that suspected all along that some­fancy stuff. I knew there was a GANO thing was seriously wrong with problem." the Cincinnati Reds' closer. It was evident in Dibble's 
A medical exam Tuesday numbers this spring. Instead of found an injury to Dibble's ro­a 99 mph fastball, he struggled tator cuff. Dr. James Andrews at times to hit 90. Instead of will operate sometime next throwing strikes, he walked week in Birmingham, Ala., to nine in 8 2-3 innings, and determine the extent of the threw 22 balls out of 28 pitches injury and fix it. in his final performance last 
The ballclub says Dibble could week. The Reds put him on the be lost for three months. disabled list the next day. 
ditlficutlt weather.

Trainer Greg Lynn said there's The state of Dibble's arm 
. . to the other guys!'

no way of knowing how long became a wedge between the manager Dalla$ Greenhe'll be out until Andrews find manager and the closer. Dibble · • a.ftet'Wednesday•s 4~~out how severely Dibble is hurt. bristled when Johnson insisted 
K""'"+"''"" completed a. three·
Dibble struggled to find his he pitch in an intrasquad game r.xa~me sweep of.tbe Chicagofastball and his control this to test the shoulder, then get spring, but insisted nothing was the MRI. They were cool physically wrong with him. A towards each other in their magnetic resonance imaging statements to the media. 
TICKETS ON SALE TODAY! 
AP File Photo 

Cincinnati pitcher Rob Dibble may miss up to three months because of a rotator cuff injury. He will undergo surgery next week. 
1 MUS 220 
ARCH 565 01 3365 ENGL 468B 01 3799 MUS 226 01 1932 CLASSES THAT WILL MUS 228 01 3623
BA 391 01 1030 GEOS 141L 05 4016 REOPEN AT 7:00 P.M. PHIL 246 01 2015
BA 391 02 0928 GOVf 242T 01 3515 4/7/94 PHIL 247 01 3642
BIOS 344L 04 0630 GOVf 242T 04 3518 243T 07 3533 PHIL 261 01 2016

BIOS 401 01 1645 GOVf 243T 07 3533 PHIL 261 02 0653
453A 01 3595 

BIOS 401L 02 3198 GOVf 301 01 3965 PHIL 265 01 2017261 02 0653 BIOS 521 01 3206 GOVf 325 01 3876 PSY 453 01 0310 
CHEG 459 02 1302 HESB 491 01 3884
CLOSED COURSES 
PSY 462 01 3979 
AS OF 7:00 P.M. COCT 441 01 3466 HIST 354A 01 3587 
PSY 470 01 .3674 

..,...COMM 103 01 9701 HIST 453A 01 3595
4/6/94 PSY 487A 01 3676 475 01 1060 
COMM 103 05 9705 HIST 456A 01 3597 
PSY 487C 01 3678 475 04 2534 COMM 103 09 9709 HIST 458A 01 2873 RLST 240 50 9550 
COMM 300 16 9716 HIST 471A 01 3599
479 01 1064 ROFR 435 01 3689 401 01 3377 COMM 303 18 9718 HIST 474A 01 2686 ROSP 328 02 0043 319E 02 3864 COMM 308 20 9720 HIST 486A 01 3603 soc 401 01 3917 COMM 308 22 9722 HIST 493 01 3604 soc 452 01 3718 S1V 454 01 2718 
382H 01 3867 

COMM 384 28 9728 liPS 420 01 3930 THEO 253 01 1003 
387H 01 2684 

ENGL 399A 01 2797 liPS 471 01 2757 THEO 265 01 1002 456H 01 3869 

-""' 
ENGL 409 01 3787 MARK 476 01 1753 THEO 287 01 3744 
386 01 3388 

ENGL 415C 01 3791 MGT 240 04 1878
390 01 3390 THTR 276 54 9754
ENGL 428C 01 3794 MGT 240 06 1879
543 03 0935 



----~~~ --------------------~-----------~~--------------------------.... 
page 16 The Observer • THE MASTERS Thursday, April 7, 1994 

-Miller could be new Cinderella at Augusta 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 

Johnny Miller is at Augusta National Golf Club for the first time in seven years. No pres­sure. No expectations. Just like at Pebble Beach in February. 
What happened at Pebble Beach in the annual Pro-Am clambake was nothing short of a golfing miracle. The head­lines said it all: A 46-year-old announcer for NBC who also makes a strong living endorsing Callaway clubs conquered his putting jitters long enough to win his 24th PGA Tour victory. 
Miller. who retired after he won the 1987 AT&T Pro-Am at Pebble Beach, had started play­ing golf again at the behest of his 13-year-old son, Todd. 
"It was for the purest of rea­sons I started playing again," Miller said. "I started playing for fun. Todd wanted me to start going around with him." 
Miller earned an invitation to the Masters with his Pebble Beach triumph and he's here although he fears the slick greens "will kick my butt." 
''I'm playing pretty good golf but it doesn't matter," Miller said. ''I'm here for fun. And it's been fun driving up Magnolia Lane again." 
Whatever happens, the way Miller sees it, he will at least be low announcer. 

"I really don't have any great expectations, but you never know," Miller said. 
Miller has come ever so close to winning the coveted green jacket. 
He was a shot behind Jack Nicklaus in 1975. Miller missed a makeable 20-foot putt on the 72nd green that would have sent them into a playoff. 
Miller also was second in 1981 behind Tom Watson de­spite a final round 68. In 1971, he was second to Charles Coody. 
Miller has won two majors, the 1976 British Open and the 1973 British Open. 
However, he knows the hills of Augusta National won't be kind to his gimpy legs this week. 
"My legs got so sore in prac­tice rounds on Monday I decid­ed to play the little par-3 course," Miller said. "I was the only guy out there on Tuesday. What does that tell you?" 
Miller said sometimes he misses being on tour but adds "I probably get more minutes on television than Greg Nor­man. The biggest thing in an­nouncing is that I see the best players and my brain has just been sucking all that up. An­nouncing has kept me mentally sharp." 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY FREAK! 

CATERING SHIFT SIGN UPS FOR GRADUATION 

. FT SIGN UPS BEGIN ON 
A tH :to ·t9
ar!1s!Ob'~rnY
-
ay, April 11, 199 4·:00 pm -9:00 pm 
>' .·. ~ _· 

·_SIGN UPS WILL CONTINUE TUESDAYS TAR . FRIDAYS {10:00 AM .;POSITIO-NS ARE FILLED 
Catering Employment Office Lower level -South Dining Hall 
The 58th Masters 
Source: The World Atlas of Golf Courses, Augusta National G.C. 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1995-96. All freshmen, sophomores and juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams on Wednesday evening, April13, 1994 at 7:00pm in room 131 DeBartolo 
Hey 
Sophomores! 
Get involved with 

Applications for the JPW Executive CommiHee available at LaFortune Information Desk. 
Due by Wednesday, April l3! 
11 4 12 3 13 5 485 14 4 405 15 5 500 16 3 170 17 4 400 18 4 405 
1983 Seve Ballesteros 275 1984 Ben Crenshaw 276 1985 Bernhard Langer 282 1986 Jack Nicklaus 280 
1.~-~L.~~'l..~-~!~~--··-··-·--??~­1988 Sand~ L~le 281 1989 Nick Faldo* 283 1990 Nick Faldo* 278 
1991 lanWoosnam 277 1992 Fred Couples 275 'f993-·eeriltiard L.8ii9e;:···-··277 
• Won in playoffs 
AP/Ed De Gasero 


Thursday, April 7, 1994 
Daly needs mental, physical strength 
By TIM DAHLBERG course on the eighth hole. Associated Press Daly, who just finished a 
four-month tour suspension 
AUGUSTA, Ga. for his propensity to leave the 
On the strength of his game course without finishing, re­alone, a case could easily be turned Wednesday to play the made for John Daly to win the back nine with Fuzzy Zoeller Masters. He putts Augusta and Mike Standly. He then National's treacherous greens made a beeline out of Augusta well enough and simply over-National without offering any powers the par-S holes with insight on the state of his his length. game. 
But that may not be enough Daly's practice woes followed in a tournament that also two miserable tournament rewards experience and men-outings coming into the tal toughness, two attributes Masters during which he that Daly again this week . missed both cuts and averaged showed he may be lacking. 77.8 strokes in four rounds. 
Daly, in a playful mood to "He was not hitting it well start a practice round Tues-the front nine," said Zoeller, day, grew increasingly frus-who was left to explain his trated with his errant shots playing partner's abrupt de­before finally storming off the parture on Tuesday. 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL 4/7 -7 p.m. NOTRE DAME vs. TOLEDO 4/8 -7 p.m. NOTRE DAME vs. XAVIER 4/9 -5 p.m. NOTRE DAME vs. XAVIER(2) 4/10-1 p.m. NOTRE DAME vs. XAVIER ECKSTADIUM 
NOTRE DAME MEN'S TENNIS 4/9 -1 p.m. NOTRE DAME vs. MIAMI(FL) 4/10-11:30 a.m. NOTRE DAMEvs. MINNESOTA 
ECK PAVILION/COURTNEY COURTS 
NOTRE DAME LACROSSE 4/9 -2 p.m. NOTRE DAME vs. ADELPHI FREE ADMISSION-CARTIER FIELD 
NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S TENNIS 
4/10-5 p.m. NOTRE DAME vs. TENNESSEE FREE ADMISSION-ECK PAVILION 

-------------------·--------~ --~~------~--~----­

AP File Photo 

Greg Norman is a favorite in The Masters, which begins tomorrow. 
The University of Notre Dame 
Department of Music presents 
AUREOLE flute, violin & harp ensemble 
winners of the 1989 Fischoff Chamber Music Competition 
performing music of Sir Arnold Bax, Harald Genzmer Maurice Ravel and Claude Debussy 
Sunday, AprillO, 1994 2:00p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art $5 -General Admission, $2 -Students & Senior Citizens 

~ 

"Come check out Bughaus'
ca
--<....> 
CD 
c:> 

new set of originals
CJ> 
• r 


and cover material" 
.c.·

Shark to test·waters at Augusta 
ByRON SIRAK 
Associated Press 
page 17 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 

Greg Norman is playing golf with the cool confidence of a kung-fu master. And that, along with a more compact swing, could finally give him his first Masters title. 
That is if he gets through Thursday's opening round, a day on which he has all but played himself out of con­tention several times here. 
"I feel very happy with the way I am right now," Norman said Wednesday. And it was quite clear he meant that his head was as solid as his game. 
"I'm working harder now than I did in my mid 20s, not only physically but mentally" he said. "I had to do what I needed to do" to once again become one of the best golfers in the world. 
And he found his focus in a strange place. 
"There are a lot of simi­larities between martial arts and golf," the British Open champion said. "Mind control." 
He said he is currently read­ing a book called "Zen and the Martial Arts." 
Whatever he has found and wherever he has found it, Norman will need it Thursday. 
Norman hasn't broken 70 in the ftrst round since 1981, his ftrst Masters. In his 13 starts at Augusta, he has had nine frrst­rounds of 73 or higher, twice shooting 78. From 1986-89, Norman finshed second, sec­ond, fifth and third and only once did he shoot lower than 73 in the opening round. 
"I just haven't played well in the first round," he said. "I don't know the reason why." 
Norman, who blew away the field with a 24-under-par 
destruction of Sawgrass at The Players Championship two weeks ago, will have plenty of competition in the field of 59 Americans and 27 foreign play­ers. 
Fuzzy Zoeller, who won here in 1979 and is coming ofT three consecutive second-place fin­ishes this season, says the guys to watch include Ben Crenshaw, John Daly, Tom Kite, Nick Faldo, Ian Woosnam, defending champion Bernhard Langer, Norman and "an old gray-haired man named Raymond Floyd." 
And of course Zoeller. 

"I feel good," said Zoeller, 42, who has not won a tour­nament since 1986. "Hey, I've been playing well. It's no secret. I like my chances. I think I know the course." 
Price of Zimbabwe has won 12 international events in less than 18 months, including the Honda Classic last month and the 1992 PGA. He says of the other majors, "I want them badly; very, very badly." 
Faldo, the two-time Masters champion who has won three British Open titles, is also feel­ing confident. "Every part of my game is where I want it to be," he said. 
But no one is as confident as Norman. 
~------­
Thursday, April?, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 18 
.... 
Wright leaves Clemson for NBA 
Associated Press 
CLEMSON, S.C. 
Clemson center Sharone Wright, saying it is time to move on, announced Wednesday he will forgo his senior season and enter the NBA draft. 
"For personal and financial reasons, I felt like I have done well here, and I think I was maturing enough to go," he said. "I was growing in the sense of being a man, and I think that's a time when you're able to go." 
The 6-foot-11, 260 pound junior from Macon, Ga., said he began thinking about going pro at the beginning of the season. 
"Our schedule wasn't a cake­walk and I was averaging about 22 (points) a game," he said. "That was before the double-teams came and the triple-teams came.... That's when I started thinking about it." 
Wright averaged 15.4 points and 10.6 rebounds this season. He also led the Tigers with 99 blocks. 

"Coach (ClifO Ellis told me that he thought it would be a good decision because he thought I was ready," Wright said. "He's been with the me the past three years, and he knew what type of person I was. He's seen me grow." 
Ellis said NBA scouts project Wright likely will be selected between fourth and 10th over­all in the May 23 draft. Ellis left Clemson after the Tigers' appearance in the NIT and was hired as Auburn's coach Tuesday. 
"If you're in the top 15, you have to look at it," Ellis said. "I can't make that decision for anyone, but any person in the top 15 has to look at it." 
Rick Barnes, Clemson's new coach, said Tuesday he had met with Wright and discussed the possibility of turning pro. 
"I think he's going to do what's best for him," Barnes said. 
"If it is best for him and his family to go to the NBA this year, then we are behind him," Barnes said. "If he comes back to Clemson next year because he is not satisfied with his draft posiiton. then we will welcome him back and do what we can to prepare him for the beginning of his pro career the following season." 
Under a new NBA rule, underclassmen can declare for the NBA draft and return to college. If the player is drafted and returns to school, the same team retains the rights to him for another year. 
Wright said he plans to con­tinue his education. 
"It will take a long process, but I made some promises to people I care about, like my grandmother and mother," he said. 
With Wright gone, more pres­sure is expected on Devin Gray, if he can continue to play after an apparent heart attack Monday night. Gray's condition was upgraded to fair condition Wednesday at Greenville Memorial Hospital. 
He was scheduled to under­go a test Thursday to deter­mine the extent and cause of his heart problems, the school said. 
Belles' softball on road 
By JENNIFER LEWIS Sainr Mary's Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's softball team, boasting a ten-game win streak, will be on the road to take on Manchester this after­noon at 3:00. With a victory, the Belles will set a new school record for consecutive wins. 
"Manchester is always a tough team," said Senior Laura Litcher. "Hopefully we will rise up to the challenge." 
According to freshman Gretchen Moore, the team is getting stronger both offen­sively and defensively. The Belles have been working hard on their fielding skills in an ef­fort to catch up to their stellar offensive power to create a more balanced squad. 
"We have tried to pick up our intensity level in practice with hope that it will increase the intensity in tbe actual game," continued Litcher. 
Sara Miller and Laura Richter are the two strong hit­ters to watch this afternoon. They have both been hitting extremely well in practice and have been hitting individual season highs. 
"The next few games are supposed to be the important ones for us," said Moore. 
but you should see her box" and "Dicken's Cider." 

Bookstore 
There are those names which continued from page 20 I like, but don't fit into a catchy 
category including "Five they'll bring the Dead if we win Beavers who know a lot about this thing." wood," "A wet, naked, dancing 
My favorite names that make monchichi," "We're not getting you wonder what the qualifi­balder, we're just getting more cations for censorship were head," and "Five guys that are: "Snatch the Rebound, Muff share a thighmaster." the Pass" and "5 guys that only Finally, the name that gets shoot when they're in the box." my vote for the best of 1994 is 
Along those same lines are "5 mountain climbers who the names which make you scaled Nancy Kerrigan's teeth," wonder what they actually cen­just because she has no person­sored: "My girl can't wrestle, ality. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Ordinations this Saturday 
Ten young men of the Congregation of Holy Cross will be ordained priests this Saturday at 1:30 PM in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, here on campus. If you think you want to attend, you better get there early to get a seat. 
I went to my first ordination 24 years ago, because a great guy named Tom Oddo was one of those being ordained (along with Monk Malloy, Ollie Williams, Jack Lahey, Frank Quinlivan and others.) Oddo, Lahey, and Malloy had all lived that year as deacons in the new dorms of Flanner and Grace, and Oddo was our instructor in sophomore theology. We loved the guy. His class was exciting and relevant, challenging and clarifying. In the wild times of protest against the Vietnam war, he gave us moral categories and vocabulary to test and express our opinions. In the delicate moments of personal relationships, he gave us guidelines for behavior and potential growth. Grateful to this teacher and friend, my whole crowd decided to return early from Spring Break and go to this man's ordination. In our typical Notre Dame Eucharistic attire -sweatshirts and blue jeans -we proudly claimed the Domeside front pews of Sacred Heart Church, and waited to see what they would do to make our good friend into a priest. 
The ushers quickly made us all move along, telling us they needed those seats for somebody's family. We figured they didn't like our clothes. From far, far behind the altar, we never saw a thing and joked about being tossed out of the wedding feast, though we remained happy for our friend on his big day. His first Mass in the Hanner Pit the next night turned out to be actually more our style anyway. 
In the years since, I have gone to a lot of ordinations, including my own. I remember the long, slow entrance procession, winding through the very crowded church. Every direction I turned it seemed I saw another old friend or a member of my extended family. By the time we arrived at the big altar, I felt chosen. It was as if every face had said to me, do this for us. Baptize our babies, hear our confessions, pray over our graves. I felt ordained. The rest of the ceremony was epilogue for me, some of it painful. 
My favorite theology prof had written me a warm note of congratulations that said he would be unable to attend that day because he was unwilling to affirm our church's refusal to ordain married men and all women. My best woman friend of the time had sent me a note of similar sentiments. I thought of both of them throughout the afternoon. Later, as the long line of priests began to pass by and lay their hands upon my head, joining the bishop in the ancient sign of ordination, I started to cry. After knowing the sentiments of my friends, the symbol felt just a little too much like a closed club sharing power. I wanted to jump up and run out into the church and tell the old people and the little kids, please put your hands on my head, so everyone will know why I am doing this. I know the ten men who will be ordained this weekend. I know why they are doing this. These guys want to serve the church. They want to help us all be honest and free and in love with God. They want to teach about justice and hope. Their image of leadership is Jesus on His knees washing the feet of His followers. Their image of Church is the grand wedding feast where all are heartily welcomed, most especially the lonely, the poor, the abused and the disregarded -even women, and those in sweatshirts and jeans. They are talented and well-trained for what they will do; they are focused on the future and ready to take risks. They are humble. 
The priesthood in our day has taken a pretty good public beating. Images of scandal make a lot of people cynical about motivation. Questions of justice make feminists righteous critics of structural sin. Attitudes towards power tempt all of us to wonder sometimes if the Church is really showing the true face of Jesus to the world. 
This weekend busloads of relatives and friends will come to South Bend to say thank you to God for the lives of their sons and brothers and to ask the Holy Spirit to guide these men in their service to us all. They know the hearts and lives of these men and they choose them for this work. They pray for them that these priests may be Christ-like leaders for us all. 
May God who has begun this good work in them, bring it to completion. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. April 9 
5:00p.m.  Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P.  
Sun. AprillO  10:00 a.m.  Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. David Schidler, C.S.C.  

SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING  Acts 4: 32--35  
2ND READING  1John 5: 1--6  
GosPEL  John 20: 19--31  




Thursday, April 7, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
1J.1 E.N :r. 51-1 ALL E. NAC.T MY DIABOLICAL PL~tN lo MA K£ HANK Ff.€L REilU..'/ BAt> ABOUT 
HIMSELF 

BILL WATTERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I S\JRE. LIKE G\OC.OLf>,iE W"-~T lG. S£E. SOti\EJl{ltK, 148 lOO\( .' '(QIJ f~S\EO S\JGAA. BOMBS.' Wt.IRI)? LOOK "-T m£ Ct>-N S£NO A'Wfl..Y LOOK \tlW BRoWN 1W~ l'l\JTRin~L IN~RMr>,nct-1 fOR P... C\.100::1\A\E 
MILK. G£\5! ON 1\-\E Br>.CK. W..NEl . FRoST£\) S%t..R BoMBS "BIJ22'1
I 

~E. 1\VMMI~GB\RO" 
00\.L .' 
... 1\Nl> f\..,ooHtl! lfi,.,~ ('1\R.l:><~TooNAR~··· · VJ""l A...... :,.~"'"" E"£"' o...o. "R' I~'~--...£ (oL 0 R 
~£L L£ l<' 1\u~ 7 
/ 

ACROSS 30 Can't stand 46 Public fuss 32 Hideouts 47"-you!"
1 Fight locale 33 Untrustworthy 48 Congressional6 Rhyme scheme 
sort caucus 10 Fitzgerald 
34 Former nuclear 49 Hot stuff 
.specialty 
agcy. 56 Coin in the Trevi 
b--J--4--If----+-­14 Lonesome 37Being 57 Nobelist Wiesel George broadcast 58 Herbert Hoover, 15 Third Vice 38TheRumba by birthPresident King 59 Reckons16 Nope 39 Colleague of 60 Hirschfeld's 17 Of one ofthe Scotty and daughtersenses Spack 
61--garde
40 Road material 18 Neck of the 62 Letter closing woods 41 Showed the 63 Lincoln in-law 

world 42 Keepers of the 

19 Linger 64 Actress Evelyn 20 Hot stuff flame22 No contest, e.g. 
43 Obsolete 

DOWN
23NASA typewriteraffirmative 
accessory 1 Arab nobles 24 Suitor 
45 Memorable 2 Lopsided win 26 Man with a horn shepherd 
3lberian river 4 "Hud" star 5Attentive 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 By surprise -­7 Ambience a-Rabbit 
29 Sportscaster 42 Apple Computer 51 Barnum's9 Pentagon Cross co-founder soprano
pooh-bah 44 Slant differently 52 Robert Indiana 
10 Inferior 30 Hot stuff 45Spelldown painting
11 Hot stuff 31 Bit of wampum 
46 Bad news on 53 On vacation collaborator 54 It's blowin' in 
12 Isherwood 
33 Beyond Wall Street question 47 Place
.:;+.~:-+;-:+-::-~ 13 "Take -the wind Train" 35 Sommer of the 48Giveaway 55 Some 21 -tomention screen so Miscellany carpenters 25 Taipan frypan 
36 Zodiacal border ------------­
38 Window type Get answers to any three clues
r::+.:-:+.-::+.:1 27 Superboy' s 
girlfriend 39 Sample soup by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
~::...L.:....L.;;;..J 28 Hot stuff 41 Outlawry 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Tonight: Acoustic Cafe 
Featuring ... Tabula Rasa 9-lOpm Open Mike lOpm-??? 
in The Montgomery Theatre 

Admission $1 *Free Coffee* 
ITVDKNT VNION -.uD 

crazy stuff and more! 

CROSSWORD 



SPORTS 

JOCK STRIP 
Names mark true Bookstore spirit 
I
t's that time of year again. All around campus. people are hooping it up. And that means it's time for the only thing I write that everyone seems to like. 
It's the third annual Book­

s t o r e Basketball names col­umn, and this year, there are so many good ones to choose from. 


And the Jenny Marten winners are... 
Everyone knows that the real Notre Dame basketball team struggled a bit this year and the two names that best capture the spirit of the team are "Our Chances are Slimmer Than Matt Gotsch" and "We don't mind losing to girls, but please not the Ross's." 
Poor John Kruk ... a little med­ical problem and he becomes the subject of more Bookstore names than the aforementioned Ross brothers. By far, the most tasteless of the Kruk names include: "Hillary and 4 other guys with more balls than John Kruk," "John Kruk's Ball Club," and "Tonya Harding, one short nut; John Kruk, one nut short." 
Since Bookstore is unique to Notre Dame, it's not that un­usual that some names are unique to the situation here on friends could never understand these names: "Knick Knack Patty Whacked Naugh's Bone," "Why won't security let stu­dents on campus when any axe murderer with a pizza sign on their car can get on?," and "We're willing to trade looks for a morally casual attitude." 

Along the same lines are two names that reflect the attitude of students towards the un­wanted crashers of the St. Patrick's Day party, "Just like the South Bend Police Dept., we're not afraid to beat the hell out of you for no good reason" and "Dogs that bite cops." 
The best John Bobbitt name: "John Wayne Bobbitt and 4 other guys who never cared for Edward Scissorhands." 
As always, the casual reader does not understand most of the names, but my favorite names that you'd think are hys­terical if you knew the story include: "Vanna and the Dirty Christian Road Warriors" and "Nonchalant Vomit." 
Then of course there are those names which we'd all love to see paired against our team like "We weren't bad in eighth grade," "The Flab Five," and "We're as good as a bye." 
The "Why don't you beat that Dead horse a little more Award" goes to Dave Hun­geling's team, "5 guys who say 
Thursday, April 7, 1994 

Women's tennis can't pull upsets 
By KATE CRISHAM 
Sports Writer 

In the drama-filled world of collegiate tennis, the 13th­ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team has found itself playing a "David" role of sorts this season. 
But this weekend, the "Go­liath" teams of Clemson and Georgia proved too powerful for the tenacious Irish. 
The Irish were defeated 5-1 by 17th-ranked Clemson on Saturday, before being handed a 6-1 loss by top-ranked Geor­gia on Tuesday. But, according to head coach Jay Louderback, the matches were much closer than the scores indicate. 
"We played real well against both Clemson and Georgia," said Louderback. "Against Clemson, we had three three­set matches, which were all very close." 
So far this season, the Irish have surprised such traditional tennis powers as Arizona and 
Irish hope for better weather 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Senior Sports Writer 

After the Miami series last weekend, the Notre Dame baseball team (8-7) was look­ing at seven games in the next six days. Mother Nature is lightening the work load with the second cancellation in as many days due to inclement weather. 
Last night's contest against Illinois was canceled because of low temperatures and the Irish are hoping it will warm up for tonight's game against Toledo. 
"We need to play games," said Irish coach Pat Murphy. "We didn't do a very good job this weekend. We know we were capable of beating Mi­ami. We were too tense. We won't be that tense again." 
The Irish looked relaxed while scoring three runs in the first inning of Tuesday's snowed out game with Bowling Green, and the team is looking to continue its offensive pro­duction against Toledo (10-9). 
Toledo brings a senior-dom­inated team that has the ability to generate some offense of its own, but Notre Dame is hoping its own hitters will be ready. 
Leading the way with a team­high .418 average, senior third baseman Matt Haas should provide a steady bat for the Irish against the seniors of Toledo. Haas was named Midwestern Collegiate Conference Player of the Week for his 2-for-3 performance 

Brigham Young, compiled a 6-3 record against top-25 teams, and finished fifth at the presti­gious National Indoors Tour­nament. All this has allowed them to achieve their highest ITA ranking in the program's history. 
However, this incredible feat was slightly marred by the per­formances turned in by Notre Dame's opponents this week­end. 
Sophomore Holyn Lord pro­vided the sole win for the Irish against the Tigers, defeating Janice Durden 6-3, 6-4. In number-one singles, 13th­ranked sophomore Wendy Crabtree was defeated by 30th­ranked Boba Tzvetkova 5-7, 2­6, while Laura Schwab lost a hard-fought match to Jan Bar­rett 3-6, 6-4, 3-6. 
The biggest casualty of the Clemson match for the Irish were the injuries suffered by senior captain Lisa Tholen and 
see TENNIS I page 12 

against Indiana and his 4-for­1 0 showing in the Miami series last week. 
Other hitters who are ex­pected to be big contributors are sophomore first baseman Robbie Kent and junior short­stop Paul Failla. Kent has a hit in 14 of Notre Dame's first 15 games while scoring at least one run in 10 of those games, while Failla led the Irish in the first game of the Miami series with a 3-for-4 outing, including a two-run homer. 
In the outfield, the probable starters are either sophomore Mark Mapes or sophomore Rowan Richards in left field, and freshman Scott Sollmann or junior Robbie Birk in cen­terfield. 





