


Tuesday, September 6, 1994• Vol. XXVI No.7 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Summer service expands perspectives 
By SARAH DORAN  
News Editor  
While many of us worked  
part time jobs designed to fund  
our weekend activities, 142  
Notre Dame students emerged  
from the summer vacation with  
an experience designed to last  
a lot longer than nine months.  
These students embarked on  
a summer of service.  
Sponsored by 99 Notre Dame  
umni Clubs around the coun­ 
try, the students completed an  
eight week Summer Service  
Project which-beyond the bene­ 
fit of a $1,500 academic schol­ 
arship-placed  them  in  en­ 
vironments ranging from hos­ 
pitals to community centers to  
homeless shelters as part of a  
valuable growth experience.  
"The stories and lives of the  
people I lived and worked with  
became real-they became my  
friends," said junior Christi  
Hancock, who lived and worked  
at the Holy Family Shelter in  
lndianapolis.During her term at  
the  Holy  Family  Shelter,  
Hancock  had  two  primary  
duties-she ran a children's  
summer program each morning  
and assisted case managers help shelter residents look for housing and work options.  The Observer/Photos courtesy of Katie Carey and Roger Yang Senior Katie Carey of Walsh Hall  
"We helped them to take ad­ was with clients in Job Retention  
vantage of the resources around them by directing them toward housing and jobs," she  Class and Junior Roger Yang of Dillon Hal! spent his summer at a community center in California.  
said. "We helped them break these dependencies." But for Hancock, the most rewarding part of the experi­ence came each night. "The most important things came after hours when I would sit downstairs with the families and just talk," said Hancock, who had chosen to complete her project at the Holy Family Shelter because it allowed her to reside at the site. For junior Roger Yang, the learning experience came through the people he met completing his service work at the South West Community Center in Santa Ana. California. "It was the small, close envi­ronment that let me get to know the homeless we served," he said. "By listening to the people and talking to them, I thought I made a difference." Yang took on a number of  duties during the project's eight week duration. He helped feed two meals a day to over 200 people and also aided in dona­tion pickups for the center and finding housing opportunities. After completion of their Summer Service Projects, the students complete three follow up activities at Notre Dame. One option is to take Father Don McNeill's Theology and Social Ministry Course for three theology credits, another is to participate in a 24 hour retreat with others who completed a project, and another is to meet three times in small groups. Summer Service Project stu­dents also write a reflection paper on their experience. Interested students should contact Sue Cunningham, coor­dinator of Summer Service Projects at the Center for Social Concerns, at 631-5923.  

Faculty changes announced 
Special to The Observer 

Academic appointment for the 1994-95 academic year have been announced by the University's Provost, Timothy O'Meara. 
Administratively, the ap­pointments include: Terrence Akai, Assistant Dean, Graduate School; Reginald Bain, acting Chair, communication and the­atre; Henry K.B. Harbury, di­rector, College of Science com­puting facilities; George Howard, Chair. psychology; Paticia C. Leonard, Assistant Dean for Administration, Law School; William McGlinn, Assis­tant Chair and Director of Un­dergraduate Studies, physics; Garth Maeintjes, Associate Di­rector, Center for Civil and Human Rights; Patrick Murphy, Chair, marketing; Capt. Russel Ames Pickett, Chair, naval sci­ence; Janice Poorman, Assitant Dean for graduate admissions, Graduate School; Father Timothy Scully, Vice President and Associate Provost; Thomas Sweeney, Assistant Vice President and Associate Provost; Thomas Sweeney, Assistant Vice President for Research and Director of the Office of Research, Graduate School; Edward Trubac, Associate Dean, College of Business Administration; Richard Williams, Chair, soci­ology. 
New faculty members have been named by O'Meara. 
In the College of Arts and Letters, new faculty include: Jeanine Becker, sociaology; Matthew Benedict, English and Freshman Writing Program; Samuel Best, government and international studies; Laura Anne Carlson Radvansky, psy­chology; Candice Castle, ro­mance languages and litera­tures; Alice Wen-Chuen Cheang, classical and oriental languages and literatures; James Cunningham, eco­nomics; M. Hilary Cunningham, 
see FACULTY I page 4 
Saint Mary's center offers career advice 
By JENNIFER LEWIS 
News Writer 
While student participation in the Counseling and Career De­velopment Center (C&CDC) at Saint Mary's is not mandatory, the resources offered at the center should not be passed up, said Assistant Director of Counseling and Career Development, Karen Kyle Manier. 
The C&CDC does not guaran­tee internships but assists stu­dents in creating a resume and provides them a list of intern­ships available in their specific occupation, said Manier. "There is no way one could make a decision involving their future if they do not become aware of 


Norway leader opposes Vatican 
their choices," said Manier. "The sooner you start investi­gating your options the better." 
This evening, the C&CDC is sponsoring The Junior Kick Off, located in the Little Theater in Monroe Center at 
5:30 p.m. This one hour pro­gram expects to get juniors active in their future vocation before senior year. 
If you are unable to attend this meeting the C&CDC en­courages drop-ins during office hours 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday-Friday in Le Mans Hall or call 284-4365. 
The C&CDC also puts out Pathfinders, a monthly news paper listing academic success programs and postgraduate options. 
.---·----------------------~--------------~­
By EDITH LEDERER 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 
One of the world's few women leaders struck back at the Vatican and Muslim funda­mentalists Monday by defend­ing abortion and sex education, and made a plea to curb the population boom "for Earth's sake." 
In her opening day speech, the outspoken prime minister of Norway, Gro Harlem Brundt­land, framed a key issue of the 
U.N. population conference: giving power to women as the way to slow birth rates and alleviate overpopulation. 
Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan, the only other woman head of state pre­sent, supported women's equal­ity but took a far more conser­vative view on abortion and sexual issues. 

Bhutto's decision to attend the pine-day conference and buck conservative Islamic opponents was in itself a victo­ry for the organizers. 
Two other Muslim women leaders, Tansu Ciller of Turkey and Khalida Zia of Bangladesh, backed out. 
But Bhutto's rejection of sec­tions of the proposed 20-year blueprint to curb population growth, coupled with another Vatican attack on abortion, re­flected the polarized debate at the conference. 
Weeks before it opened the 
U.N. conference exploded in controversy over the issues of abortion, birth control and sex education. 
The Vatican opposes artificial birth control and abortion in all cases, while Muslim fundamen­talists say the draft plan of ac­tion promotes promiscuity, homosexuality and a loosening of family ties. 
In three preliminary meet­ings, delegates to the popula­tion conference agreed to more than 90 percent of the plan of action. 
But the most contentious issues must still be resolved ­reproductive health and family planning services, reproductive rights, adolescent sex education and abortion. 
Vice President Al Gore said Monday that participants were "very close" to a consensus on the subjects still in dispute. 
But he predicted the Vatican would not accept the final doc­ument despite compromise lan­guage being worked out by the European Union. 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, September 6, 1994 
• Inside Column Me and my McJob Don't laugh, but I flip By Krista Nannery hamburgers for a living. Viewpoint Assistant Editor While other people my age toil away at summer desk job internships, I bag fries and worry about moldy hot dog rolls. My career in the "Food Service Industry" began about four years ago. In this relatively short amount of time, I've gone from counter worker to Head Cashier to Assistant Manager. I've doubled my pay and my hours and can now make two ice cream cones at the same time with one hand. (You think that's easy?) I can understand the plight of the average Hardee's counter worker. You see, I know what it's like to wear polyester five days a week and carry your belongings to work in a see-through plastic bag. I know what it's like to have total strangers call you by your first name because you're wearing a name tag about the size of Rhode Island symbolically located above your heart. I know what it's like to be in the middle of the lunch rush and discover that the fries were never delivered that week and you'll have to talk everyone into onion rings. And I know what it's like to run out of straws. I'm not much of a cook, which is pretty silly because that's basically what I do forty hours a week. It is even sillier because I don't eat red meat and about the only thing I can make is a nice, juicy burger. Actually, that's not true. I can make just about anything that can be thrown into a vat of industrial strength Fry Max cooking oil. (You know it's ready when it floats.) I've heard every complaint known to science. "It's cold" is the most common one. That's fol­lowed by "I dropped it". My favorites are ''I'm not hungry anymore" after they've eaten half of it and "It's too hot" -go figure. But the cus­tomer is always right so I have no choice but to refund the item with a smile. Patrons have questioned my intelligence on more than one occasion. I've been told to get a real job and to go back to high school. I've been cursed at and spit on and sexually harassed. Men have refused to believe that I am the man­ager. Women have told me that I should stay at home and raise children. Jehovah Witnesses have tried to convert me on more than one occasion. Now, whenever I go into any type of restau­rant, I know exactly what and how to order. Always include the size and if you want a spe­cific topping, tell them immediately! Don't get mad if they don't have what you want. Speak to the manager if you are really unhappy, but try to be civil. Remember, he or she is a person too. Expect to wait a little, especially if it's busy. Try to say please and thank you. It really helps to know that there are polite people out there somewhere. Unfortunately, I'm getting on in years now and it's time to move on into the real world and get myself a desk job where love of polyester isn't a requirement and lunch breaks aren't limited to heart attacks on bread with sides of cholesterol. Truth be told, I'll miss the fast food business and it will always be a part of me. But honestly, I need a job that doesn't require a name tag. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer.  
• Today's Staff News Production Vivian Gembara Belle Bautista Gwendolyn Norgle Whitney Sheets Sports Accent Tim Sherman Kim Massman Scott O'Ross Viewpoint Graphics Susan Fry Chris Mullins Lab Tech Eric Ruerhling The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

• World at a Glance 

Commissioner meets with Secretary of Labor, World Series unlikely 
NEW YORK With four days left until the  STRIKE SCOREBOARD  urged both sides to settle their differences. It was  
deadline for canceling the  No bargaining sessions scheduled.  the first time no baseball  
season, acting commissioner  
Bud Selig met Monday with  
Labor  Secretary  Robert  
Reich, who  was  far from  
optimistic about the season  
continuing.  
"I think there is a  very  
good possibility we are not  
going to have a World Series  
this year and that would be  
the first time since 1904,"  
Reich told a crowd of about  
200 Democrats attending a  
fund-raiser for U.S. Rep.  
David Obey of Wausau, Wis.  
Reich said he had a "can­ 
did" discussion with Selig,  
owner of the Milwaukee Brewers, earlier in the day.  Salaries listed do not Include prorated shares of signing bonuses or Qther guaranteed Income. -~~J!!~~~~ bonuse~-~amed or mo~ey lost be~~~-~!.!~~!. OPP';!~~Ies for i-~-~ntive bon~ses.:.. AP  effort tO establish a frame­work which possibly could  
"I was passing through  1  lead to a settlement.  

Milwaukee and I wanted to hear from him personally," The most-discussed framework appeared to involve a Reich said. "I am not encouraged. I think the baseball "taxation" concept that was mentioned two weeks ago by owners and players are taking their customers for grant­Boston Red Sox chief executive officer John Harrington, ed." in which large-revenue clubs would have to share a 
Reich called the federal government's role in trying to greater amount of money than others. settle the strike "frustrating. We can't make them agree Fehr, who was in his office on Labor Day, said he if they don't want to agree." wasn't concerned about Selig's Friday deadline. Selig has 
"That we may not be having a World Series in 1994 is a said he would seek the union's input. testament to the fact that baseball has gone from being Thirteen more games were canceled Monday, raising our national pastime to a huge industry, which there is, I the total to 324. Tuesday will mark the midpoint between hate to say, a huge amount of greed," Reich said. the start of the strike on Aug. 12 and the season's sched­
As the strike completed its 25th day, President Clinton uled end on Oct. 2. 

The tradition of displaying apples and honey throughout Israel to symbolize the sweetness of the Jewish New Year took on new meaning as the holiday began Monday with the promise of peace with the Arab world. The New 
· Year started at sundown with The Days of Awe, the 10-day period for Jews to Bhutto contemplate their sins against man and ask forgiveness. The year has seen Israel and the Pales­tinians end decades of bitter enmity, establishing Pales­tinian self-rule. Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin looked back on the new year and told the daily Yedioth Ahronoth: "I don't feel the need to ask forgiveness from anyone." Most recently, he admonished Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto to "learn some manners" when she attempted to visit the Palestinian self-rule areas with­out advising Israel she wanted to cross the Israeli-con­trolled border. 
Rabin critical of Bhutto crossing border 
JERUSALEM 
Three-year-old dies when boat capsizes 

LOS ANGELES 
A motorboat packed with 19 members of three families capsized during a fishing trip, killing a 3-yea.r-old boy who was trapped in the submerged hull wearing a life vest. Two girls, ages 10 months and 4, were critically injured in the Sunday night accident outside Los Angeles Harbor. The 18 survivors were hospitalized after spend­ing up to five hours in 60-degree water, the Coast Guard said. Firefighter John Burgan, a diver, said the boy who died was trapped against the boat's instrument panel, floating horizontally against the console as if he were sleeping. "It's the kind of thing that comes back to you years later," Burgan said. The vest probably prevented the boy, Adam Romero, from swimming out from under the capsized boat, Burgan said, adding that such a young child likely wouldn't have been able to escape. 
Captured terrorist refuses to answer judge 
PARIS 

Smiling broadly and saying he had been kidnapped, the notorious terrorist Carlos the Jackal refused to answer questions Monday at his first interrogation since being arrested last month, his lawyers said. The Venezuelan-born terrorist, wearing a grey jacket and yel­low scarf, appeared before France's top anti-terrorism judge after he was whisked under heavy security from his isolation cell in a Paris prison. Judge Jean-Louis Bruguiere questioned Carlos about his actions in the weeks preceding a 1982 car-bombing in Paris that killed one person and injured 65. Authorities have charged Carlos in the bombing. "I refuse to answer. I was kid­napped. I am being illegally detained," Carlos said after each question, according to lawyers Jacques Verges and Mourad Oussedik. Carlos, 44, whose real name is Ilich Ramirez Sanchez, was captured Aug. 14 in Khartoum, Sudan, and jailed the next day in France. For 20 years, he had been among the world's most wanted terrorists. 
Deafwoman dreams of being Miss America 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. 

Heather Whitestone won't hear the roar of the crowd if she wins the Miss America crown next week. For her, a victory-walk down the Atlantic City runway would be about as quiet as a private stroll. Whitestone, Miss Al­abama 1994, is deaf and can hear virtually nothing with­out a hearing aid. She hopes to become the first Miss America with a disability. But Whitestone, 21, says she never thinks of herself as deaf. Her goal is to inspire all people to achieve their dreams. "I want to challenge ev­erybody, not just deaf people," she said. Whitestone and the 49 other contestants arrived Monday in Atlantic City, N.J., to begin preparing for the 74th annual pageant on Sept. 17. Whitestone has overcome her deafness to learn ballet and study accounting at Jacksonville State Univer­sity. 

Tuesday, Sept. 6 



..........._ ............. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu·Weather. Inc. 
Pressure 
H L a&'SJ[D) 01ZJ§i) ~a 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pc CLOUDY CLOUDY 
a .... 
Atlanta  83 62  Denver  79 58  New Orleans  88 66  
Baltimore  76 53  Houston  96 74  New York  75 54  
Boston  57 54  Los Angeles  91  68  Philadelphia  71  53  
Chicago  65 58  Miami  91  77  Phoenix  99 53  
Columbus  76 53  Minneapolis  75 58  St. Louis  84 66  

•• ft •• 
.. . . . . 
' ' ' 

Tuesday, September 6, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 



Meeting between US-Cuba accomplish little 
By LOUIS MEIXLER 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
U.S. and Cuban negotiators met for one hour Monday on halting the exodus of Cuban refugees, and there were grow­ing indications that the talks were at an impasse. 
The two sides planned to meet again Tuesday for a fifth day of talks, but David Johnson, spokesman for the U.S. delega­tion, said the time and place of the negotiations had not yet been set. 
One dispute was over an ear­lier U.S. offer to expand legal Cuban immigration, perhaps to about 20,000 people a year, in exchange for President Fidel Castro's promise to stop Cubans from fleeing to the United 
WISH TO JOIN THE CATHOLIC CHURCH? 
LOOKING FORA PARISH SETTING, BUT DON'T WANT TO GO OFF CAMPUS? 
IS A WEEK DAY EVENING BETTER WITH YOUR SCHEDULE? 
Then, Sacred Heart Parish in the Crypt on campus is for you!!! 
For the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults. 
Call Sacred Heart Parish at 631-7508 
shenanigans 
States. U.S. response. 
Cuba reportedly responded Cuban diplomats did not com­with a proposal to increase ment after the Monday meeting. legal immigration to at least About 200 people gathered 100,000 people. outside the Cuban mission dur­
A State Department official, ing the talks to protest Cuba's speaking on condition of communist regime and urge the anonymity, said the Cuban pro­Clinton administration not to posal was unacceptable. Chief give in to Castro's demands. 
U.S. negotiator Michael Skol en­As they began shouting, tered the Cuban U.N. mission "Cuba Si, Castro No," louder alone Monday to deliver the and louder, Cuban mission staff 

BEN STILL NEEDS HIS BOTTLE 



Happy 21st 8-Day 
began blasting pro-government popular music from loudspeak­ers placed outside the windows on the first floor of the 1 0-story building. 
Cuba's chief delegate, Ricardo Alarcon, has said the refugee crisis cannot be solved unless the United States agrees to talk about lifting its 32-year-old economic embargo against Cuba. 
The United States insists mi­gration is a separate issue and refuses to discuss lifting the embargo before Castro imple­ments democratic reforms. 
On1y about 2,700 Cubans are expected to get U.S. immigra­tion visas this year. That's less than a tenth of the more than 30,000 people who have left Cuba aboard rickety rafts and boats this year, most of them in the past month. 
By Monday afternoon, the Coast Guard had picked up 683 more Cubans at sea. 
Haitian refugees who are be­ing held with the Cuban refugees at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, threw rocks at American sol­diers on Sunday to protest what they see as preferential treat­ment for the Cubans. 

Notre Dame's only Singing and Dancing Ensemble 
AUDITIONS: september 12 and 13 in 204 o'shag 
All interested should sign-up for a time-slot at Activities Night or at 214 Lafortune. For more information, stop by our booth during Activities Night or call Ricky 4-1178. 




ATTENTION ALL STUDENTSHI 
DO YOU WANT TO IMPRESS YOUR FRIENDS AND FAMILY BY TELLING THEM YOU VOLUNTEER IN THE ADMISSIONS OFFICE AT NOTRE DAME? HERE'S YOUR CHANCE TO HAVE FUN AND ASSISTADMISSIONS AT THESAME TIMR TinSVOLUNTEER PRO­GRAM IS RESPONSIBLE FOR SEVERAL MAJOR RECRUITMENT PROJECTS, AND WE NEED STUDENT VOLUNTEERS FOR THE UPCOMING YEAR. IF THIS SOUNDS INTERESTING TO YOU, COME TO OUR OPEN HOUSE TO LEARN MORE m 
OPEN HOUSE: TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994 7:30PM ROOM 123 EARTH SCIENCE (BROWNSON COURTYARD) 
IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS OR CANNOT MAKE THE MEETING, CALL ANNE PETERSON AT 1-7403 



The Observer 
Any Saint Mary's Student interested in writing or taking photos for the Observer should attend a meeting on Tuesday, Sept. 6th at: 
8pm in Holy Cross Hall 8:30pm in LeMans Hall 9:00pm in McCandless Hal 9:30pm in Regina Hall 
Please contact Beth Regan at 631-4540 or 284-4449 ifyou have any questions. 

NOW 

HIRING 

Food Servers & Hostess/Host Flexible Hours Apply Anytime 
272..3672 
Cleveland Rd. across from UP Mall 



12 
11 I 10 2 
9 
3 8 
• 

The Papa Zone 
II you eall during 5 p..DL ·7:30 p..m the priu of a large,~ pizza u1M time you call plasta! It's Time to Call Your Papa! • 271-1177 
\ \ \ ' I 

\ \ \ \ . ' I ~ 

page 4 Tuesday, September 6, 1994
The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 
anthropology; Father Brian Daley, theology; Thomas D'Andrea, philosophy; Jack Davidson, philosophy; William DeMars, government and in­ternational studies; Father Michael Driscoll, theology; An­thony Dutton, English; Maura Heaphy Dutton, English; Bradley Gibson, psychology; Dawn Gondoli, psychology; Arthur Grauman, German and Russian languages and litera­tures; Mark Gunty, sociology; Kathleen Halischak, Freshman Writing Program; Noriko Hanabusa, classical and orien­tal languages and literatures; Glenn Hendler, English; Max Herr, art, art history and de­sign; and Joyce Jablonski, art, art history and design. 
Also, Ivan Jaksic, history; Anita Kelly, psychology; Paul Kilde, Jr., Freshman Writing Program; Tomasz Kizwalter, history; Thomas Laugner, com­puter applications program; Howard Louthan, history; Patricia McFarlane, Freshman Writing Program; Peter T. G. 
Youel have to I
OJ 

f)O ba~k pretty FA1\i 
t@ tind 10r-ices this i 
good onfi~m and I 
proaeSs• n9. i 
r ---~ TARG=:EV=:G=: ==m~
MAN-=:u:=u:::P1=:~­~---~ ~'~';iid'ait 55¢OFF~~~;;~~~~~dak "'" $1 OFF 
Vahdonlyonftlmwnh"ProofofPurchaseUSA"symbol Qualex color
I I 
A A CONSUMER Coupon good only on purchase ofKodak film processing. 
III ei _," I
~ U amateur color pnnt ftlm (Black-and-whtte and professtonall ~ •--=-----------------~-film excluded) Umtt one coupon per purchase May not be Enclose this coupon 
-----copted, transferred or used wtth any other Kodak offer You d 11 0 f 110 d 3 5 full f 
I 
pay any applicable tax RETAILER Kodak wtll retmburse you for the face value of thts coupon an one ro , ISC or mm rame plus 8 cents handlmg allowance, proVIded you properly redeem u on retatl sales of the descnbed color pnnt film or single-use camera (CAl Kodak ftlm Upon request, you must furniSh proof-of-purchase of sulftctent product to cover all Iprocess only) m a film developmg order I 
redempuons Fatlure to observe above tenns may vmd all coupons submttted or conslltute fraud 
MAIL TO Eastman Kodak Company. CMS Dept 41771. One Fawcett Dnve, Del Rio, Texas envelope. One coupon per order. May not 
78840. Reproducuons not accepted. Vmd where prohtbtted. Cash value I/20 cent.Good only m be combmed with any other offer. 
rmtedS~tesandPuenoRico K:akTARGeET I • TARGET I
CASHIER 
L 
®FILM DEVELOPING useMFGCouponKey ®FILM DEVELOPING 
We do your pictures, too. 4177110450 L We do your pictures, too. J
------------· 
McQuillan, English; Martha Merritt, government and inter­naitonal studies; Paul Meyendorff, theology; Christian Moevs, romance languages and literatures; J. Anne. Mont­gomery, English; Kristina Muxfeldt, music; Timothy Onkka, psychology; John Quinn, classical and oriental languages and literatures; and Gretchen Reydams-Schils, Pro­gram of Liberal Studies. 
Also, Penny Russell, history; Stephen Scharper, theology; Esther-Mirjam Sent, economics; Neven Sesardic, philosophy; Peter Skott, economics; Peter Steinfels, American Studies; Christopher Strathman, arts and letters core course; Cynthia Sutton, sociology; Maria Tomasula, art, art history and design; Donald Turner, Jr., philosophy, MarthaTurner, arts and letters core course; Doris Van Auken, psychology; Beverly Vandiver, psychology; Ted Warfield, philosphy; Mary Wong, government and interna­tional studies; Lissa Vanbebber Yogna, sociology; and Hong Zhu, classical and oriental lan­guages and literatures. 
In the College of Business Administration: A. Brian 
Atkins, marketing; Richard Borgman, finance and business economics; Eve Caudill, mar­keting; Kristina Diekmann, management; Robert Easly, management;! Manuel Garda­Ayuso, accountancy; Richard Huether, business lecturer, Pe­ter Kelly. London MBA pro­gram; Christopher Kocks, man­agement; Rafael Munoz, accountancy; James Nieberd­ing, finance and business eco­nomics; Joel Urbany, market­ing ; and Sandra Vera Munoz, accountancy. 
In the College of Science: David Alonso, chemistry and biochemistry; Klaus-Dieter As­mus, chemistry and biochem­istry and the Radiation Re­search Laboratory; Thomas Banchoff, mathematics; Henry Gordon Berry, physics; Yuly Bil­lig, mathematics; William Boggess, chemistry and bio­chemistry; Scott Bridgham, biological sciences, Peter Cholak, mathematics; Douglas Fishkind, biological sciences; Qing Han, mathematics; Henry 
K. B. Harbury, College of Sci­ence computing facilities; Gre­gory Hartland, chemistry and biochemistry; Barbara Hellen­thal, biological sciences. 
~· 
8 
:> 
OJ 
rn 
3 
01
::r 
u 
i 
,0 
~ 
OJ 
3 
m 
(l 
~ 
iif 
~ 
~ 
(l 
,m 
1l 
OJ 
t-
m 
01 
5 
~ 
rn 
rn 
ill 
~ 
0 

Don't let the "Homework Blues" get you down! 
Let Ferraro Specialties type your class assignments. 
Any length -quality service rush jobs -NO PROBLEM! 
Free Pick Up and Delivery! 
Call today! Ferraro Specialties: 234-8209 
13TH ANNUAL 


COLORADO 

...... 


Wednesday, September 7th 
4-6 pm LaFortune Student Center Ballroom Come meet approved University Vendors who can show you the latest in imprinted products. 
Meet vendors who you have products you can sell at your football concession stand. Meet vendors who can help you with your 
fundraising events. Free food samples! 
SPONSORED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 
-----~~---~-----­
September 6, 1994 
BUSINESS FORUM 
Another step towards ottr goal 
As we try to get back into-------­
the swing of things at the start of another year here at school, it's often hard to regain the focus we had dur­ing the last days of cram­ming for finals. The tan lines of summer are still with us; the frostbite of win­ter is still a long way away. 


However, as assignments Michael Martin pile up and football season Business Editor kicks off, we all find that somehow we have returned to the groov~ of our college routine. 
In the same way, we here at the Business Department of The Observer are continuing on the road to our goal of producing the most enter­taining and informative section possible. 
Our goals continue to be realistic; I know that there are very few people out there who grab their Observer on Tuesdays and Fridays and tear it open to the middle first so that they can catch up on the Business Briefs or the Market Roundup. Even though I myself have an overriding interest in the Business section, I don't get anywhere until I read Calvin and Hobbes and the Four Food Groups of the Apocalypse. 
That said, we have still instituted some intrigu­ing new features that we hope will become fix­tures on the Business Page. 
We are most pleased with the results and the response from two of these new additions in par­ticular. The first of these is the Faculty Business Forum, a commentary by a rn'ernber of the faculty on the news of the day in the world of business. Along with this we have instituted a Local Business Profile, where we engage in a deeper analysis of how a local enterprise relates to our college community and the business world around us. 
The Wall Street Journal and the larger city papers like the Chicago Tribune and The New York Times all provide superb coverage o national and international business news. With that in mind, a reader is not going to turn to The Observer for the straight in-depth news reporting of economic events. 
While we do provide an overview of the nation­al news of the day, The Observer's Business sec­tion strive to specialize in analysis of the news o the business world and how it affects our unique situation as students on a college campus in a medium-sized city in northern Indiana. 
If you are interested by the ways campus events relate to the business world or the ways the busi­ness world relates to campus life, I invite you to write for The Observer's Business Section. No experience is necessary, just a willingness to find out about our slice of the economic world. 
There are a number of ways to go about this. You can sign up tonight at Activities Night, you can leave a message in the Business Editor's mailbox at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, or else you can call the News Department at 631-5323 and tell them you want to write for the Business section. We'll give you a call back and work out exactly what types of assignments would interest you the most. 
If you can write for the section, please do, because this section can only be as good as the people who put it together. I guarantee that we can arrange an assignment that will fit in with your other activities and responsibilities. 
If you can't find the time, I hope you'll give the Business Section a chance when you're leafing through the paper between the Inside Column and Accent. We are getting closer to our goal every week. 
Who knows, maybe someday we'll even be able to compete with Calvin and the Four Food Groups. 
BUSINESS 
pageS 

New York Tiffany's robbed 
Associated Press 
Two gunmen wearing black ski masks forced their way into the Tiffany & Co. store in midtown Manhattan while it was closed early Monday and made off with about $250,000 in jewelry, police said. 
The robbers took one hour to over­power guards, pick out jeweled watches, bracelets and rings and take security video tapes, before disap­pearing into the empty streets, said police Capt. Sal Blando. 
"They were very, very profession­al," Blando said at a news confer­ence. 
Detectives were questioning the guards and other employees to deter­mine if the robbery was an inside job, Blando said. The Tiffany & Co. store was closed Monday and officials could not be reached for comment. 
The unarmed guards told police that the heist began about midnight as one of them arrived at the store's employee entrance for his shift. 
The gunmen ordered the guard to tell two on-duty guards that they were his cousins and needed to use the bathroom. 
Once inside, the robbers tied up the three guards, plus a fourth who arrived minutes later, before snatch­ing about 300 pieces of jewelry, police said. 
Finally, the men forced the guards to take them to a second-floor securi­ty area to get the surveillance tapes. After the robbers fled, one of the guards worked himself free and called police. 
Bayh praises unions in Labor Day address 
Associated Press 
The United States would be a much different place today if there were no unions, Gov. Evan Bayh said Monday. 
Americans have good-paying jobs, a family leave policy and health care "because of the people in this state, in this country and the UAW," Bayh said at the United Auto Workers' annual Labor Day picnic. 
Bayh was joined at the picnic by Secretary of State Joe Hogsett, who is seeking for the 2nd District Congressional seat, and Jim Jontz, who is running for the U.S. Senate. 
About 1,500 people turned out for the picnic, which carne just two weeks after UAW Local 663 waged a three-day strike against General Motors' Inland Fisher Guide plant. 
GM assembly plants across the country were idled because of the strike, which UAW officials said was over subcontracting and health and safety issues. The strike ended after GM agreed to make 19 additional products at the Anderson plant. 
The Labor Day picnic began as a way for union officials to thank their members for their support. said Lillian Halsell of Anderson. 
"It was a way for the union officials to let the employees and their fami­lies know how important they are to them, and it has grown and grown and grown," she said. 
While the UAW may be one of the 

Entrepreneur couple finds Labor Day special 
Associated Press 
Labor Day took on special meaning this year for Andrew and Sheri Gauthier, whose dream of running their own business carne true this year. 
The Gauthiers began Staffing Resources Inc., a temporary and job­replacement agency, three months ago. The company has placed more than 250 people -many of them unemployed and without marketable skills -in stable jobs. 
"When you're working for someone else it's hard to get change. It's hard to serve the customer the way you think is best," Sheri Gauthier said. 
"We stay in contact with our cus­tomers. We never want to be this dis­tant force that changes two months too late." 
The Gauthiers said they work long hours to make their business work, often spending 70 to 80 hours a week in the office. While owning their own business is more difficult than they thought it would be, the Gauthiers said it has been worth it. 
"It's an immense responsibility, but it's also an immense satisfaction that there are 250 people out there rely­ing on us for a paycheck," Andrew Gauthier said. "It's a good feeling to go horne with." 

Prices down, dollar up at Tokyo Exchange 
Associated Press 
The dollar opened marginally high­er against the Japanese yen Tuesday, while prices on the Tokyo Stock Exchange slipped further in early trading. 
The dollar began trading at 99.08 yen, up 0.03 yen from Monday's Tokyo close and below its overnight London finish of 99.25 yen. New York currency markets were closed Monday for the national babor Day holiday. 
The dollar was moving narrowly in early Tokyo trading in the absence of major incentives, dealers said. 
I f 1 I I f I I I ' I ' I I ' > 
Trading was quiet also because North American players were on holiday. 
The 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average fell 48.51 points, or 0.24 percent, to 20,360.67 in the first 30 minutes of morning trading. On Monday, the average shed 244.65 points, or 1.18 percent, to 20,409.18. 
The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed on the first section was down 5.46 points, or 0.34 percent, to 1,613. The TOPIX had fallen 22.68 points, or 1.38 percent, to 1,618.46 points the day before. 
Prices slipped because of the dol­lar's weakness compared to its level in overnight dealings in London. 


Governor Evan Bayh yesterday ad­dressed the UAW picnic in Anderson~.. IN 
AP t"hoto 
best-known unions, auto workers are not the only ones who benefit from organized labor, said Bill Whiteman of Anderson. 
"Look around -three-quarters of these people don't work at (Delco Remy America) or (Inland Fisher Guide)," he said. "That's what it's all about -the common, everyday worker." 
amily-run hotel thrives 
Associated Press 
The owner of a small roadside hotel here said he is more worried about train tracks then he is about competing with large, national hotel chains. 
The South Shore train tracks run right behind the Blackhawk and AI and Sally's hotels, two small hotels that have operated along U.S. 12 for more than 40 years. 
"They take a room for five nights, pay good money, and, 10 minutes later, they want out because of the noise," said Lester Chojnacki, owner of the 20-roorn Blackhawk. 
Chojnacki said many tourists like the convenience of the Blackhawk and the 16-roorn Al and Sally's. Both hotels are minutes away from the Beverly Shore beaches. 
Neither hotel seems to be a threat to the other. In fact, Chojnacki said he and his wife Bozena often trade customers with AI and Sally's depending upon availability. 
Terry Morton said she chose to stay at the Blackhawk while her house in Chesterton is completed because o the reasonable weekly rates, an in­room refrigerator. cable television and the homelike atmosphere. 
"It was something right out of the '50s," she said. "It looks like things have never changed. It has a 1950s decor but it's spotless, like brand new." 

--~----~~·-----~-----­
..---------~--~---~--~--~-~ 
VIEWPOINT 
page6 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Duector...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu 

• EDITORIAL 
What is Fire Home? 
Being the only time of year when student apathy is not a problem, this would seem like an unlikely time to address the issue. Tonight is Student Activities Night, the proverbial potpourri of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
There is no question that everyone wants to be a part of something; however, when football season begins to fade and the snow drifts near the window sills, boredom inevitably sets in. 
Well here is your chance to beat the banal and get involved. Yes, those trite words of wisdom are back. 
Beyond boredom there are other reasons for checking out the J.A.C.C. tonight, like supporting your friends and sheer curiosity. 
How many people actually know what Fire Home is? Or that we have a Students with AIDS Training organization, a Hapkido club or even a Baptist Student Union? 
It is hard to believe that the community which offers such diverse activities and interests and has so much enthusiasm in the fall is the same commu­nity in which only 30 percent of the Saint Mary's student body voted in the last election and an over­whelming 60 percent for Notre Dame. You would think something as riveting as the NCAA women's basketball tournament would get people excited, yet only 2,296 Irish fans came to show their support. 
There is plenty of time in life to do things which are in our own self-interests and, for most students, we only have four short years to be a part of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Moreover, it is ironic that such a self-serving attitude exists to the degree that it does in a community whose founding purpose was to counter such a hedonistic mentality. At a univer­sity that is both spiritually powerful and intellectual­ly dynamic, how can the numbness of mediocrity possibly exist? 
Tonight is your chance to make a difference, to show that you care. Involvement is everything. Just remember that in February. 
• lETTERS ill THE EDITOil 
Women and Mass: Take a stand 
Dear Editor: I believe this University, its faculty, officers, 
On Sunday, Sept. 11, the University will have staff, and students must confront a profound its Opening Day Mass in the Basilica of the question: Is the Mass. as presently constituted, Sacred Heart. At this Mass will be the faculty of an appropriate ceremony for the opening of this the University, its officers, staff, and students. University? Fifty or sixty male priests will cocelebrate the We have much talent here to develop a cere­Mass. As a faculty member. I have attended this mony that is not a direct attack on the ability. ceremony for well over three decades. status, commitment, and concern of our women 
This summer, John Paul II, the leader of the colleagues, staff, and students. I hope we have Catholic Church, proclaimed that women can the leadership and sense of solidarity to find an never serve as cocelebrants in any Mass, includ­answer to this challenge to the University. ing the Opening Day at our University, and fur­ther, that this question of equal, open status for JOHN HOUCK women in the Catholic Church is "non-debat­Professor of Managemenr and Co-Director of the Notre Dame able." Cenrer for Ethics and Religious Values in Business 
Commercialization disserves Irish 
Dear Editor: famine, glory, hardship, and the widespread ignorance of 
This is a response to the non­beauty. the burgeoning peace process sensical dialogue concerning It is even more disturbing in Northern Ireland. the popularization of a so­how these self-proclaimed If one student, Administrator, called symbol of Irishness: druids of Irish-American cul­or teacher could see past the "The Leprechaun." As usual, ture remain blind. At a misty shroud of deceptive Notre someone with cultural sensitivi­University with a supposed in­Dame tradition, they would see ty wrote a letter expressing his tellectual elite, these students the grotesqueness of a cultural concern over an issue of utmost represent a situation all too trivialization. To be truly Irish­importance for those of us who American means to be a stu­truly value our Irish-American dent of the past and present, to nature. And, of course, as reject and fight against com­usual an impetuous (and arro­' It is disgusting at mercialization of our culture. to gant) group of ND fans refuse seek one's roots. and to stand
times how crass

to acknowledge anything wrong up to the racism presented in a with the Americanization, or cunning and loosely accepted
and commercial our soci­
velveetization, of their truly form of the "Fighting Irish." proud heritage. The Fighting Irish definitely
ety has become.' 

The Leprechaun, either the have no credible link with our movie or the cheerleader, rep­common close-minded, con­proud heritage. Neither does resents an affront to Irish dig­servative, pseudo-cultural bab­the other cute commercial lep­nity. Along with "Irish Spring" ble. Or, it could be perhaps rechaun, nor the guy with the soap and "Lucky Charms" ce­called passive racism. pseudo-Irish accent in a pseu­real. Irishness is sold and Michael Hill ends his view­do-rural Ireland peddling soap. bought. And true Irishness point ("A proud people, a rich As the Jolly Beggarmen put it: cannot be so! This cute, two­culture," Sept. 2, 1994) with a "They met them face to face fisted emblem fits into the same typical close-minded approach: with the courage of the race... category as the Cleveland tie in non-related issues in an God save Ireland said the Indians, or Florida State attempt to discredit a valid con­heroes, God save Ireland said Seminoles. It is disgusting at cern. What does Hill's call for a them all." God save Ireland times how crass and commer­and end to abortions have to do from the "Fighting Irish." cial our society has become. with Irish-American concerns? And also it is scary how "assim­To be truly Irish-American DAVE MCMAHON ilated" Irish-Americans have means to really have a concern Junior become, forgetting a history of with issues of assimilation, and Dismas House 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
YOU aJEtL, SIR., 7H81PRACTICAUY IA/ANTW ALREAOYARE IIV!fVWCTORI T0'3e/3 ({){)!<583. ALM05T 7ZW 7H!RPS Mf3,SIR.? Or lH& /NCOMI!V6 FRE9!M&N I AI?& TAKING 7H&M... 
IA/Hiff? 
~ 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Todo great work a man must be very idle as well as very industrious." 
-Samuel Butler 
' I I I I ' 
>I I 1 I \ ' 
• I • ~ I I I I I I I I I I I I 

----------~-----------~-----------, 
----------------------~-----­
ACC6-NT 
Tuesday, September 6, 1994 page 7 
• Medical Minute 
Prepare for the battle off the field 
A party playbook to control our opponent 
BY Ryan J. Grabow N.R.E.M.T. 
With the Michigan game less than a week away, most of us are busy planning for the first big "Party Weekend" of the year. Friends and relatives from around the country will be here to "Party with the Irish"-before, during, and after our victory over the Wolverines. Seniors are gearing up for their last season with the Irish. the Frosh are awaiting their first home football weekend, and everyone else is ready to party. 
With cases staked to the ceiling and taps flowing freely, the cam­pus will be rockin. As this Bacchanalian feast of sights, sounds, an'd tastes quickly ap­proaches, here's our "Party Playbook" to control "our oppo­nent," this weekend while the Irish control Michigan on the field. 
Where it Goes. Alcohol: When a drink reaches the stomach sever­al things happen, I) Some of the alcohol is absorbed into the bloodstream 2) Most is passed on to the small intestine, where it is absorbed into the bloodstream at a much faster rate than in the stomach and 3) The alcohol remaining in the stomach is slow­ly broken down by an enzyme, usually at a rate of I ounce of pure alcohol per hour (most beers contain 0.6-0.8 ounces pure alco­hol, and most shots contain 0.5 ounces pure alcohol). 
The speed at which alcohol is passed on to the small intestines, 
where the fastest rate of absorp­tion occurs, depends on two fac---..-.. tors: the contents of the stomach prior to drinking and the ingredi­ents of the drink consumed. 
Fat-rich meals such as whole 
milk or pizza help to delay the 
emptying of the stomach contents 
into the small intestine, thus indi-
Jello Shots-harmless when you do one or two, jello shots do the potential to make last s party your last ever. Since can hold a large amount of , without tasting com­etely gross, it is easy to suck ten or twelve on your own, even an entire pan if your hun­. Here comes the fun part, as jello, mostly congealed sugar, to dissolve, all the alcohol "shots" is introduced to the 
w 

....~~-.. at the same time. 
If you only have a few in you, the danger is present, but small; however, if you tried to impress everyone and sucked down ten Dixie cups you better hope your 
~I:J,.-....,..._.., friends know rescue breathing and are sober enough to call 9-1­1. Here's why: Suppose each jello shot has about 1/2 of an ounce of alcohol in it, if you consume 10 shots your intake of pure alcohol (I'm assuming your using Everclear) will actually be about 5 pure ounces, the equivalent of 5 Shots of Everclear or about 9 beers. This amount spread over an entire evening is large, but when consumed at the same time as is the case with Jello shots this amount can be deadly. 
The sugar will speed the rate at which the alcohol is absorbed both by the stomach and the small intestines, thus very little of the alcohol will be broken down by the stomach. If all this pure alcohol enters the blood stream, it could very easily effect the res­piratory center of the body caus­ing you or your friends to stop breathing. The bottom line is limit three to a customer. 
Funneling (beer bong) and chugging are dangerous forms of consumption for the same reason as jello shots, speed of consump­tion. Our bodies protect them­selves from the stupid things our brains make them do with alcohol by making us throw-up and pass out before we can consume a 
rectly slowing the rate of alcohol .,.,___  deadly amount.  
absorption. A greater amount of  Funneling and chugging enable  
the alcohol will be broken down  us to beat our bodies defenses, so  

by the stomach enzyme theL~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~th~we~nmmumemmealco­
longer it remains in the stomach. 
When alcohol is present in a drink high in sugar or carbonation, such as: pina coladas, margaritas, fruit punches, rum and cokes, scotch and sodas, gin 
and tonics, etc. the alcohol will pass through to the small intestine at a much faster rate, than if the alcohol is simply diluted with water as is the case for most beers. 
Because the alcohol reaches the small intestines at a faster rate you will feel the effects of the drink faster as well. Bottom line: Have Pappa John's before you party, and pace yourself. 
Why Me? Hangov.ers: Several myths have developed over the years concern­ing ways in which one can avoid the effects of a hangover. Some such fallaci­es are: Consuming a large quantity of fatty foods, drinking cooking oil, taking two aspirin, or vitamin B before drink­ing or drinking more alcohol, or taking vitamin B before going to bed or after "arising from the dead" the next morn­
ing. " . " 
The reason none of these remedies work is due to the "darkside of alcohol". The absorption of water by the kidneys is inhibited by alcohol, which increases urination and Joss of water, causing 
dehydration, and the accompanying feeling of death the next morning. . 
In addition, the excess of alcohol m your blood caused by over consumption, forces the liver to work overtime to break it down. This interferes with the 
liver's ability to metabolize fats, and raises the level of lactic acid in your muscles, which makes you irritable and generally "fun to be around" all day. The alcohol still in your blood also caus­es the blood vessels in your head to swell and throb, adding to the headache you already have due to dehydration. 
Finally, REM sleep (dream sleep which makes you rested) is also disrupted by a night of heavy drinking; causing you to have either very little REM sleep or very violent, vivid dreams, both of which bring very little rest for the body. 
To make the morning after a little more bearable there are a few strate­gies you can employ. To combat dehy­dration: I) Drink a glass of pure water (no pop or soda) during the day for each drink (shot, beer, etc.) you plan to have that night. 2) Alternate between an alco­holic beverage and a glass of water while drinking (you may mock it, but it works) or 3) After you get home drink a glass of water for each drink you had that night. 
I'm sure you already know how diffi­cult it is to drink lots of water after a night of drinking, here's why. Alcohol stimulates the production of stomach 
acid. Now think back to the axiom our high school chemistry teachers used: Adding water to acid is never placid-they don't mix well. That's why the wa­ter, although needed, is not a welcome addition to the party in your stomach. 
If you want to take some form of pain killer at night or in the morning stick to aspirin or ibuprofen, the acetaminophen in Tylenol needs to be broken down by the liver, which is still working on the alcohol. because of this a stomach ache could result. Bottom line: If you want to 
play the game, you must pay the price. Drink lots of water. 
The silly things we do. Drinking games: All games are not created equal. Some are childish fun, but not very dan­gerous, others belong on the same shelf as Russian Roulette, "Not Intended for People with a Brain"· Don't put the paper down yet, you make the decisions, I'm just giving you the facts, here they 
are. 


hol than is humanly possible in normal circumstances. Basically, we're like little 
kids playing with fire, sooner or later we're going to get burned. Don't be stu­pid, enough said. 
Here at Notre Dame it's difficult to dis­cuss alcohol without feeling like some­one is judging you or telling you what to do. My intention is not to tell you what to do, but rather to give you information so you can make your own decisions. 
We're all in the same boat here at 
N.D. School is rough and most of us get stressed out after a tough week. Going out to the bars or hanging out with friends and tilting a few back is not only fun, but it helps many of us relax and unwind after a tough week. 
Enjoy yourselves and have a good time. My only goal is to give you the facts you need to know so that everyone makes it to their graduation. 
We pride ourselves on being a family here at Notre Dame, so we owe it to each other to be responsible when we party. Take a moment before you start partying this weekend to remember Mara Fox and what it means to be part of a family. 
Good Luck and Stay Healthy! 
I' 

page 8 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, September 6, 1994 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
s E N 0 R S 
E REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS­N TODAY AND TOMORROW! 
9:00A.M. TO 5:00P.M. IN CAREER & PLACEMENT SERVICES. 
R 
s 
LIMPOPO IS COMING ARE YOU READY???? FRIDAY"S THE DAY 
USED TEXTS CHEAP! II! Buy & sell used books at the only hip place in town 1 0-6M-S/9-3Sun PANDORA'S BOOKS NO ave & Howard St 233-2342 
ILOST & FOUND I 
FOUND: Camping for tickets, a key ring with three keys rm 421. call Claude! at 3719 
WANTED 
LOOKING FOR MUSICIANS TO FORM ROCK/BLUES BAND. CALL PETE 233-5130. 
MORE FUN THAN A JOB OUGHT TO BEl 
JOIN THE TEAM OF THE BUSIEST RESTAURANT IN MICHI­ANAI FULL-TIME AND PART­TIME, AM/PM SPOTS OPEN FOR: 
• 
LINE COOKS •SERVERS 

•PREP 
COOKS 

• 
BARTENDERS 

• 
DISHWASHERS 


TOP PAY AND GREAT BENEFITS 
INCLUDING FLEXIBLE HOURS. IF 
YOU'RE A WINNER...WHAT ARE 
YOU WAITING FOR. APPLY IN 
PERSON. EVERYONE LOOKS 
FORWARD TO 
FRIDAY'S 
4730 N. GRAPE ROAD 
MISHAWAKA 
EEO 
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING 
BREAK TRIPS! SELL 8 TRIPS & 
GO FREEl BEST TRIPS & 
PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, 
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT 
RESUME EXPERIENCE!l-800­
678-63861 
ANYONE NEEDING TO LIVE OFF­CAMPUS FOR THE 1ST SEMES­TER AND IS BRAVE ENOUGH TO LIVE AT LAFAYETTE CALL 233­5130. 
PART TIME WORK AVAILABLE 
TAKING PHYSICAL INVENTO­
RIES. WORK AROUND YOUR 
SCHEDULE. DAYS AND/OR 
WEEKENDS. $5.25 PER HOUR 
CALL 272-0408 CLANCY INVEN­
TORY SERVICES 
RESORT JOBS-Earn to $12/hr. + tips. Theme Parks, Hotels, Spas, & more. Tropical & Mountain destina­tions worldwide. Call (206)632-0150 ext. R55841 
WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST 
GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY 
SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO­
MOTE SPRING BREAK TO 
JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, 
FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE 
TRAVEUCOMMISSIONSI SUN 
SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710. 
PART-TIME NANNY NEEDED to care for 1 & 4 yr. old during week­days. 10 mi S. of ND~wn trans­ponation needed. 9:30 to 
4:30 or any regular block of time during those hrs. Can be flexible. Please call 299-0051. 
PAID RIDE NEEDED. ND grad needs Michigan game ride from and back to Niles, Mich. Amtrak Station Sat. 9/10/94. Good fee paid. Call (313)821-2499. 
ACOUSTIC CAFE ACOUSTIC CAFE ACOUSTIC CAFE!III!I A meeting will be held tomorrow Tues. from 6 -7pm in the SUB office. COME AND HELP PLAN SOME GREAT ENTERTAINMENT!! Questions?? call Amanda X4895 
NEED 3 MICHIGAN GA'S OR STU­DENTS. CALL JOE AT 4-2712 

HELP WANTED: ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY NEWS SERVICES, 
232-3205 OR 288-9361. 
WANTED: RESPONSIBLE, KID­LOVING STUDENT WITH CAR TO BABYSIT 2 CHILDREN AGES 4 &6 IN MY HOME. 2-3 DAYS PER WEEK FROM 2-6. PLEASE CALL 277-5786. 
SKI RESORT JOBS -Hiring for many positions for winter quarter. Over 15,000 openings! For more information call: (206)634-0469 ext. V55841 
National Park Jobs -Over 25,000 openings! (including hotel staff, tour guides, etc.} Benefits & bonuses! Apply now for best positions. Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. N55841 
SPRING BREAK '95-SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!! I Student Travel Services is now hir­ing campus representatives. Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona and Panama City Beach. Call 1­800-648-4849. 
HELP! My uncle will lose all respect for me, if I don't score a bunch of Stanford/NO tickets. If you can help please call, money is no object. Bob Ricci, 201-239-2222 or 908-289-0199. 
Student Travel Sales! Sunchase Tours is seeking ambitious sales 
reps to promote ski and beach trips 
for Christmas and Spring Break! 
Earn cash and free trips. Call today: H!OO-SUNCHASE. 
WANTED: TIX FOR PURDUE GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. JILL 273-6942 
FOR RENT 
NOTRE DAME HOME GAMES 
RENT LARGE COUNTRY HOME 
IN GRANGER. WILL SLEEP 8 
PERSONS, 8-10 MILES TO STADI­
UM AND MINS. TO TOLL 
RD. 

FRI. TO SUN. $500 CASH PLUS 
$100 DEPOSIT. ALUMNI PLEASE 
PH. 273-9240. 

Student occupied 3-flat has large 4 room, 1 bath, apartment still avail­able, 755 South Bend Ave. 1 block west of Notre Dame Ave. $300 heat & water included. Deposit required. 1-800-582-9320 
ROOMMATE needed. Female pre!. Oak Hill Condo. Own room & bath. Call 273-4485. 
HAVE 3 BEDROOMS FOR RENT 
NEAR ND FOR FOOTBALL AND 
SPECIAL EVENTS. $50 A NITE. 
CONT. BREAKFAST. 
219-272-9260. 

THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, 
NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED 
BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO 
NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE 
OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­
773-2034 

THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & 
BREAKFAST-Historic Home, quiet 
setting, 4 guest rooms, shared 
baths. 20 minutes to campus. 
616-695-6321. 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 
PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC 
EVENTS. 
219-291-7153. 

BED & BREAKFAST 
291-2258. 

EDISON PARK, 3 BEDROOM HOUSE. 2 CAR GARAGE. ON PYLE ABOUT 1.25 MILE EAST OF CAMPUS $675 MONTH 282-1014 
FOR SALE 
NEW LAPTOP COMPUTERS­
CHEAP! '486DX2/50,4MB 
RAM,COLOR,PCMCIA, SOFT­
WARE AND MORE '486DX 
33.8MB RAM,ACTIVE MATRIX 
COLOR, PCMCIA, SOFTWARE 
AND MORE 

CALL CHRIS @ 273-2070 
87 HONDA CIVIC Wagon, 4WDr., 
Manual ($3800). Call 631-5411 
MAC CLASSIC II, 6/80, extras, soft­ware. $750 call: 4-1240 BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS CALL COLIN AT 273-6205 
Loft for sale $60 Call Anne 284­4346 
HEY FRESHMAN Ill WORD PROCESSOR GREAT CONDITION FOR SALE -CHEAPI 
$125 OBO JEFF 4-1576 
Upholstered swivel rocker. $25 OBO. 272-3426. 
TICKETS 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR ALL GAMES. CALL BOB 219-232-5297. 
Selling 2 Mich. GA's. Best offer. Leave message w/Kathleen. 273­5174. 
I NEED TIX FOR MICHIGAN AND TALLAHASSEE. I AM VERY DES­PERATE. CALL CHRISTIAN AT 287-6743. WILL PAY BIG$. 
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & 
STANFORD! X2174. 
Need 2 GOOD Navy tickets. Call Suzy @x0927. 
NEED 1 MICH TICKET STUD. ORGA PLEASE CALL DARRYL @ X4243 
$$$1 NEED MICHIGAN TIX. GA OR STUD. CALL KAREN X4290. 
A LOCAL BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2 PAIRS OF GA SEASON TICK­ETS. 272-7233. 
'BIG BARGAIN -HURRY' 
WILL TRADE MY 6 AF GA OR 4 
AF. PLUS 2 NAVY OR USC FOR 
YOUR 2 MICH. OR BC GA'S. 
'288-1186' 
I NEED ND SEASON & ALL 
GAMES GA. WILL PAY TOP$$$$. 
WILL ALSO TRADE MY 6 OR 4 
FOR YOUR 2 MICH. OR BC GA'S. 
BE SURE TO CALL. 288-1186. 
ST. JUDE, WANT 2-4 SEASON OR INDIVIDUAL GA TIX. 312-404-4903 DAN. 
I NEED GA'S FOR MICHIGAN, 
PURDUE, STANFORD, BYU & 
FSU. MIKE 289-3203. 
ALUMNUS NEEDS 1 TICKET TO MICHIGAN GAME ON 9/10 OR WILL EXCHANGE 2 TICKETS + CASH FOR 3 TICKETS TOGETH­ER. CALL TOM HILDNER AT (201) 623-1000 OR 
(201) 467-9824. 
WANTED: OCT. 15 BYU TICKETS. 4 TOGETHER. CALL 800-922-2327 JANET. 
ND VS FSU NOV.12, CITRUS 
BOWL 
FAN NEEDS TICKETS. PLEASE 
CALL 407-246-1879. MAY CALL 
COLLECT. 
ALUMNI DESPEAATEL Y NEEDS TIX FORUM GAME. WILL PAY $$$AND/OR TRADE AF OR NAVY TIX. CALL DAN (319) 323-7152 AFTER 5. 
NEED MICHIGAN STD. OR GA'S. 
CALL 233-5130. 
I WILL BUY ANY HOME GAMES. 
233-5130. 
I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS. 
272-6551 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHI­GAN STUDENT TICKETS CALL SEAN AT 634-1101 WILL TRADE CAR OR ORGANS IF NECESSARY. 
4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED. 
CALL X2875 (NICKY) 
NEED 2 MICH. GA TIX. CALL BILL AT 233-5719 
Need STANFORD 
GAs, 1 Stdnt 
Call Curtis 282-2197 
I NEED 6+ STUDENT TICKETS 
FOR THE 9/24 PURDUE GAME. 
CALL KEVIN @273-8699 
WANTED: 
2-4 GA Purdue Tickets. $100 per 
ticket. 515-965-0512 Wanted: 4 Mich GAs. Desperate Alum promised boss tixl Career in jeopardy. Call Brian 815-568-6977. 
NEED STANFORD GA'S BRIAN X2187 
I m!ed a student booklet or any tick­ets for football games. Will pay big $$$. Call 277-1085. 
LET ME BUY YOUR MICHIGAN TIX. I NEED 2 GA. CALL 273­96'12 $$$$ 
'"NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA'S"* Will trade with 2 STANFORD GA's &IC>r money! Please call 634-4896. 
Need tix: 5 BYU G.A'S; 4 STAN­FORD G.A'S; 2 STANFORD STUD.--cALLJOE @X2765 
NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S. BETH X2965. 
Need 2 Ml stud. tix. Call Monica 
813-254-3716 
I desperately need 2 GA tickets for the NAVY game! Call Rosanna x3577 
I need 2 tickets to the Stanford, BYU or Purdue game. Call Rosanna x3577 
Need Stanford GA, call: 4-1240 
Need 4 GA's four Purdue game, to~1ether please for family. Chris x1955 
Need 2 Mich. GA's 
Call Chris 273-3975 
Need Mich. Stud. Tix Call Chris 273-3975 
2 U of M GA's 4 Sale-best offer. 284-5174 & leave msg. Also all Stu. Tile 
Ne,ed 1 or 2 Mich tix GA or st Will trade Navy or Purdue tix or 
BIG BUCKS! x4035 
Wanted: 2 GA's for Navy game!! Please call Amy 4-1330. 
I NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR THE 
MICHIGAN GAME. PLEASE CALL 
X 2273. 
NEED 2 TIX FOR MICH. 
DESPERATE,WILL PAY$$$ CALL JASON, 272-4297 
Noed Mich stud tix Eric x1087 Welcome Back Sue! 
FOR SALE: 2 GAAD.STD. TIX. 
BOOKLETS 271-8621 
NEED GA'S FOR MICH & BYU 
CALL DENNIS@ (914)­294-6546 
STANFORD GA'S NEED 4. 
MATT 257-0564 
NEEDED: MICHIGAN GA's $$$$$ Steve Crowley-287-6380 -­
Desperately Need 
4 NAVY Tickets!!! 
$ $ $ $ 
Please Call Daniells 
at x2537 
I need michigan and stanford tick­ets. Call chris at 237-9817 
I need 4 Michigan tickets. Call 
Bridget x4053 Please, 
please,please 
Alum from East seeks Michigan Tix. Has BYU and Air Force GAs to trade and $$$ to spend. Call Dave 201-222-1845 ASAP 
Need 1 Mich. stud. ticket. 
Jim 277-3953 
DESPERATELY SEEKING GAs for PURDUE and NAVY. PLEASE HELP-$$$. Call Alisa -634-4355. 
STUD. SEASON TIX 4 SALE 
CALL BENJAMIN @254-9068 
$$NEED MICH. 
STUD. TIX. CALL 
GARY 277-9279. $$ 
Will pay $150 CASH for your stud. 
tix book. Call Chi-Chi at #1185 
MY FRIENDS WILL PAY ANY­THING FOR MICHIGAN STUD. OR GATIXIII CALL 272-8606 

NEED TIX for MICH. 2 Stu& 2 GA's Please call Chris@ x1527 
Wanted: 4 GA's for Michigan game. 
call 288-2589 
CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME. I would if I had tickets to the Stanford game. Alum REALLY wants to return to campus with fami­ly. Student tix ok. Price negotiable. Call collect after 6 pm 
(516) 499-5009. 
I need Mich stu, will trade my Stanford or pay $. Ruth X2359 
TWO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE, VERY GOOD SEATS. CALL RENG Ll, 273-4372. 
NEED 2 STANFORD TIX 
-CHRISTl X4899 
I HAVE MICH STUD TIX 4 SALE 
MICHELE 284-5326 
Help!! 

I NEED 2 PURDUE GAs call Kim 271-2859 
I NEED 2 GA'S TO THE B.C. GAME & 1 STUDENT TICKET TO ANY HOME GAME. CALL CHRISTINE x4850 
Need 1 stud or GA for PERDU $$Please call JULIE X2534$$ 
stu. tix. book for sale or separate! 
best offer! call charles at x1387 
$$1 NEED 2 GA'S OR STUD.$$ 
TIX FOR MICHIGAN! X 1679 
CALL MIKE 
I NEED 1 OR 2 MICH. GA'S. DAD FLYING FROM LA AND WILL PAY YOUR PRICE CALL JUSTIN AT 273-5917 
DESPARATEL Y NEEDED: 
STUDENT OR GA'S FOR 
STANFORD, PURDUE, NAVY 
AND A.F.. CALL RACH 233-1761 
NEED 2 MICHIGAN TICKETS ST. or GA's -I have lots of$ to blow on this game. Call Jeff at 232-8337 
NEED 1 STUD. TKT FOR MICHI­
GAN GAME 
CALL STEPHANIE 4-4946 
STD TIX FOR SALE. CALL 277­
7876 AFTER 5PM. 
NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS, GA 
OR STUDENT. CALL JOE AT 
4-2712 

WANTEDII Chicago Alums need 
Two Student Ticket Books and 2 
Michigan, BC and Stanford GAs. 
Will pay$$$. Call (312)404-5502 
(nights). Ask for Dina or Rob. 
MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS 
BOOKLETS OR MICHIGAN 
ONLY. OVER 170 BO 
271 1998 

WANT TO BECOME RICH? SELL ME YOUR 2 MICH. TXS. ITS ONLY A GAME. KEVIN 273-8673 
PLEASE HELP!!! I DESPERATELY NEED MICHIGAN GA'S AND STUD. TIX. CALL BRIDGET AT X4053. 
MICHIGAN TICKETS! 
MICHIGAN TICKETS! 
'94 GRAD NEEDS TWO STUDENT TIX. CALL JOHN @ 273-8553 
NEED 2-4 MICH. GA'S-CALL 
PHIL AT X3520. 
Need one or two MICHIGAN GA's. Will pay top dollar. call Brian @ x3244. 
NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA's Will trade w/ 2 Stanford GA's &/or up to $75/ticket. Please help-my brothers are visiting and want to see a ND football game. Call 634­4896. 
NEED 3 BYU GA TIX & 1 STUD 
BYU call 1722 if you have them 
!III!SKYDIVE SKYDIVEII!II Have you ever wanted to fly? For more info stop by the student govt. booth at Activities Night or call Ben @3382orGreg @1714 'next trip planned for MICH. ST. weekend! II!IISKYDIVE SKYDIVE!!III 
I NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA'S BADLY 
PARENTS FLYING IN FROM NY 
MIKE X42210 
WANTED: MICHIGAN TICKETS WILL BEAT OTHERS BEST OFFER. WILLING TO TRADE OTHER HOME GA'S. CALL KYLE AT x1478. 
WILL PAY CASH FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES AND FSU. MIKE 289-3203. 
NEED TWO MICHIGAN GA'S. X2254. 
I NEED MICHIGAN GA'S CALL RYAN: 271-5685 

$$$$ LOOKING FOR SOME FALL BREAK CASH? NEED 2 TIX FOR NO-MICH. GAME. CALL AIMEE AT 277-0715. $$$$ 
$$Need MICH. TIX$$ CALL MIKE 289 6988 

WANTED: 4 GA'S FOR STANFORD 10/1 CALL JASON x1033 
WANTED 2 MICHIGAN GA FOOT­BALL TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 634-3106. 
BEAUTIFUL NURSE NEEDS 1 
G.A. FOR THE MICHIGAN GAME. PLEASE CALL 287-7444. 
1 GA for all home games for sale. Call Ed at (708) 366-1329. 
I WILL BUY YOUR STD. TIX. 
BOOKLET. CALL 233-5130. 
NEED STUDENT TIX BOOKLET! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! call MATT @ x3386 
I NEED ONE MICHIGAN TICKET 
PLEASE CALL MELISSA AT 272-0108. 
I DESPERATELY NEED Ml TIXII X 4-3881 
I need 1 or 2 Michigan GA's please call Kathleen @ x4899 
Need 3 Michigan GA's. Will pay big $$$, Kevin at 289-3203 
WANTED 3 GA EITHER ND VS PUR, STAN, BYU CALL COL 215­
355-7131 

HELP!!! Need Michigan & Stanford tix. Call Alan @ x1663 
NEED MICH STUD OR GA'S 
CALL TED X-3054 $$$ 

NEED STUD BOOKS AND GA FOR ALL GAMES 
TONY 272-6621 
I NEED MICH. STUDS. KEVIN 271-7428 
Need 1 Mich stud Tix Call Bill @ 272-2376 

I HAVE ALL HOME TIX. WILL SELL OR TRADE FOR FSU. CALL TONY X3558 
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE!!IIII! My Little Brother is Flying in for the Michigan Game and Desperately Needs a Ticket (Stud. or GA) ""Call Theresa x4708"" 
Wanted Student Ticket Booklet call 
Erin at 284,5341 

Will buy Student Ticket Booklets for outrageous amounts. Call sean at x11 01. Any section. 
NO FAMILY REUNION needs 
Stanford TX. TOP DOLLAR. Call 
517-332-4719. 

Need 4 Stanford GA'sl Willing to pay $$$$ Call Suzy 4-3427 
WANTED: 2 ND-MICH TIX. CALL 
COLLECT PAUL THAL, 

BUS: 810-477-0800, X2365 
OR HOME: 810-349-5543. 
4 Stanford GA's-I need them. 
Please call Bevin at X2533 and let's 
make a deal. 

I need one Michigan ticket. Please 
help me and call John at 277-5720. 
2 ROLLING STONES/LENNY 
KRAVITZ (@ MSU) TIX 4 SALE. 
NEED AIDE THERE. CALL JEN 
X2875. 

see ClASS I page 11 


*TWIL8GHTT
-r-.~\ Q, . ·.; :, ·; i f AIL:::~ ~ ---~ * * '" ~~ IP ~
\ T 
' 

PRSSSNTSD BY SAINT MARY•S SAB FRIDAY, SEPT. 9TH 
·~·­

AFI'SRNOON ACTIVITIES EVENING ACTWrrlSS 
Tuesday, September 6, 1994 
Taylor 
continued from page 12 
stellar game for Taylor. He already had an interception and ended with three tackles. 
"Bobby Taylor had an excel­lent game," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz said. "He was a bright spot." 
A spark on an otherwise damp day for the Irish defense. Praise from Notre Dame's coach was thin towards a defense that allowed Wildcat tailback Dennis Lundy to run rampant and Northwestern. 
But there has always been praise for Taylor. It began his freshman year when he started seven games, and highlighted this year when Holtz gave Tay­lor his choice of assignments. Notre Dame's coach had Taylor penciled in at free safety, but then asked the defensive back for some advice. 
"I asked Bobby coming into 
The Observer • SPORTS fall camp which one of our de­fensive backs he would like to see cover the opposing teams top receiver," Holtz said. "He said 'me,"' Taylor was back at left cor­nerback the next day. "The defensive system we play in puts a lot of pressure on the cornerbacks because we have to play a lot of man-on-man defense," Taylor said. "I have the most experience doing that." Experience is thin across the 

ND Activity SMC Activ ~~~ifr~~~ept. 7, 8 p.m. 

J 


For info call: Commodore Patrice Miller 284--5052 
Notre Dame secondary, making Taylor the anchor this season. Three-fourths of last year's starting secondary graduated, leaving Taylor and three play­ers who had started a com­bined two games going into the Northwestern matchup. It is an athletic group, but one needing time to develop. 
Time which Notre Dame doesn't have with Michigan vis­iting South Bend Saturday. Mercury Hayes and Amani Toomer head a talented Wolverine receiving corps. 
"A lot of people have been putting down our secondary," Taylor said, "but I think we have a good group. 
"We'll be ready for Michigan." 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL 
STUDY PROGRAM 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1994 at 7:00 pm ROOM 116 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
ALL STUDENTS ARE WELCOME! 
The Observer/Jake Peters Third-year starter Bobby Taylor is the leader of the backfield. 


LIBRARY GREEN ANGELA FIELD 
2:00-6:00 P.M. 9:00-11:00 P.M. 
VELCRO WALL BAND: HUMAN BOWLING GLOBAL VILLAGE TYE-DYING, FAI<S TATOOS & VOLLEYBALL, CANOE RACSS BONFIRE 

STUDENT 
ACTIVITIES 
8·0-A·R·D 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 

-------------~ 
-
shirts at ...• activity · ]ldng yorir oWl'l bhmk shirt to Zamboniro at. the ice 
~ri~~ ..i~~·,···.:'IJI< +:·~···~. Thlsi~ charg~. .
Notre DameJTra~k Team· 
meeting .... y, Sept. fat 
<4p,m. tn· ·•·••· ·· ·..•. ·• · < ()ff--c..mpl,l ..... tf~r,.all . . .·.··.·•• · ball. call Day~:) DettOre•~t 277*······· .·. co teml 
9442 by SeptelriJ,ler 6. · ·· · ot101 ·· Ba,ebaUTryoqts.Open try.. 
··: Quts for varsity b!lseball on Wednsed(ly Sej)t. 7 at 3 p.m · The tryouts will be held at Frank Eck Stadium and all walk-ons or intersted people are welcome to attend. 
Scuba .Course· The infor* 
mation meeting for this course] techniques. ;wiUbe Wednesday. September< .•.·.. r long course that ·· 7 at 6 .. p.m. in Rockne Rm · Rockne Rm 301 MIW 

-r,........"""u· starting Wednesday, 
LAST CHANCE! 
FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1995-96 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the infomtational meeting WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7 *7:00p.m. 
131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 

II 
SPECIAL LIMITED-TIME OFFER: WordPerfect 6.0 for Wmdows, Quattro Pro 5.0 for Wmdows, and Random House Webster's Electronic Dictionary and Thesaurus, College Edition. 




See your local campus rese/ler for more information. 
~WordPerfect 
Novell Applications Group 

W& ••1&1PPn 

!Jil&ll 
tiiiP WIIIIWI•.
• The ultimate tool for graph­ics and presentations! 
S.Wllft!llciB.O • ..lll:llanl'y The most powerful DOS application ever! 
WomPerflldisaregisteredtradem.arilc1NoveH.Inc.AIIotherbnmdorproductnamesarereglsl'eredlradMTIIrksoflhfllrrespecttvecompanies.C191MNOVIII,IrM:. 
4:1lll-5:1lll 4:1lll-5:1lll 4:10-5:10 5:29-6:29 5:29-6:29 5:29-6:29 6:45-7:45 9:00-lll:llll 
4:1l0-5:1lll 4:10-5:19 4:B0-5:1lll 5:29-6:29 5:29-6:29 5:29-6:29 9:90-lll:llll 
4:1lll-5:1l0 
12:15-12:45 12:15-12:45 
9:99-lll:llll B:Oil-9:1lll 

AEROBICS SCHEDULE 
FALL 1994 

MONDAY I WEDNESDAY 
Combo Aerobics  Gym  2  
Step Aerobics  Room219  
Step Aerobics  Gym  I  
Intra to Aerobics  Gym  2  
Step Aerobics  Gym  I  
Step Aerobics  Room 219  
Water Aerobics  Pool  
Combo Aerobics  Room 391  

TUESDAY I THURSDAY Step Aerobics Gym I High Intensity Gym 2 Step Aerobics Room219 High Intensity Gym I Step Aerobics Room 219 Stretchercise Gym 2 High Intensity Room 301 
FRIDAY 

Step Aerobics Room219 JRCC Rockne JRCC JACC JACC Rockne Rolfs Rockne 
JACC JACC Rockne JACC Rockne JRCC Rockne 
Rockne SIB SIB SIB SIB SIB SIB SIB SIB 
SIB SIB SIB SIB SIB SIB SIB 
Sill 

MD~DAY I WEDNESDAY I FRIDAY Beg Step Aerobics Room219 Rockne Water Aerobics Pool Rolfs  $15 $15  
Step Aerobics Step Aerobics  SUNDRY Room 219 Room 219  Rockne Rockne  $10 SIO  

All classes are co-ed. Men are encouraged to participate. Classes begin September 7 Registration Begins August 39 at B:llll AM Register In aduance at RecSports. Class sizes are limited. 

Year Long Special 
Two 12-inch pizzas up to 6 items on each $9.95 plus tax 
OR 

Weekly Special 
One 14-inch pizza up to 6 items $10 plus tax 
273-3890 

The ~LUB 
to eat. 
The ~LUB 
to beat. 




1 r j t 

o ..•o•~ 
FRIDAY NIGHT ClASH UNDER THE LIGHTS! 
1:30 p.m. I NDISMC STUDENTS FREE WITH 10 


Tuesday, September 6, 1994 FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 


B'i" Rt.t-\D'-11\'IG \'1\'{ C\£)\1-111'-lG, 
I CAN PtRP£\RA\t A.N'i CRIME li\'11)8"'CCJED! 
I 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
lm!tJI. 10 9 Naiads' homes Donizetti's "The 

~ --oflove" -=-;•7-t.=+-~ 11 Fashionable Canadian city? 1-':::-1~-=-t,...--+-:-+~:-+-~ .-...-o-+~"+::...t 12 "Othello" villain 
~=+~=+=~ 13 Actress Anna 
~~I:)··· 18 Curtain fabric 

.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, pm. 
Please write the Environmental Defense Fund at: 257 Park Ave. South, NY, NY 10010 for a free brochu~. 
The Observer • TODAY DAVE KELLETT 
HE-'s N1t't., f1l A·6oNNA 'RALpH, ANt> INAt>E~C'1 tsl"~ 011 .. 1-\e:'cc "BE. f.NE 
I 

BILL WATTERSON 
~E.'K'{ON't. S\-10\J\..D S~\( 
ENGL\S\-1 <JR jiJOST 5\-\\JT \JP, 1\-\f..J'S W\-11>-.1 I SA'{ .' 
\ 

Throughout their songwriting careers, the Gershwins rarely discussed their younger brother, Nathan, who played gutbucket. 
Class 
continued from page 8 

FOR SALE 2 MARRIED STD TIX 
NEED MICH GA'S CALL MATT AT X2153 
I HAVE A USC GA 
(THE LAST GAMEl) 
I WANT A MICH TICKET!! 
ERICA 273-4599 

t:;;--+---i-+--+­NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE TICK· ETS AND 8 STANFORD. CALL GRANT 416-865-7741. 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN GAME. ANY KINo. BIG $1 CALL DAVE @ 4-1689 
25 Scold 39 Movement 49 King Cole 26 Rest on one's 41 Infuriate BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU
50 Computer

42 Paris or Hector Desperately seeking BYU tickets
capacity, for 

27ls weary Will Pay great $$$$$$$$$$$$$. 
44 Cringe short 2aSummons 
Call Sarah at 273-8474

45 Corn covering 
51 Site of or 631-5323. 

29 Person with a 46 Russian-born 
rejuvenation BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU 

seal designer
31 Kind of tender 52 Double twist 
47 "--off to see FOR SALE: Student ticket booklet 
33 Rip 53 "You bet!" 273-9213
351977 Wimbledon 
seeking purdue and be ga'schamp Get answers to any three clues karenx3792 
36 Crowds around 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-,
38 Turbojet and For Sale: Two student ticket books.
5656 (75¢ each minute)•
others Best offer. Call271-1531 after7:00 
Have 2 Mich GA's, want to trade for 4 BYU GA's, or 2 BYU, 2 Stan. GA's. 277-9258 
NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA'S BIG$$$$$ CALL TJ X1290 

Need MICHIGAN tix. Will trade BYU or AIRFORCE Ga's & $$$$$$ Call Brett @ 289-6988 
NEED A MICHIGAN TICKET FOR MY BROTHER WHO IS FLYING IN FROM MEXICO. PLEASE CALL MELISA AT 2818. 
~'2-b~AYS -\t1 helf 5A'~e-b4e ~~-\'\\~ H~X>..qgS-9887. 
NEED PAIR OF MARRIED STU­DENT SEASON TIX. JOHN 800-257­7210 EXT 1152. 
TO TRADE -8 (6 TOGETHER) STANFORD FOR FSU. CHRIS OR ED BULLEIT 800-786-8723. 
$$NEED$$ 2 MICHIGAN GAS CALL JOHN AT $ 273-6138 $ 
I need 3-4 Michigan GA's Please call Jon at x1620 
Have pairs of Stanford and Airforce GA's willing to trade for Michigan or Fl. State GAslll Contact x4097 asap. 
INTERESTED IN FATHERING MY FIRSTBORN? Call me with two MICHIGAN tickets and we'll talk. 634-4890 
Married stud tix 4 sale 272-7686 
NEED 1 MICH, 4 PUR., 
+ 2 STAN. STUD TIX. CALL 234-8958. 
I HAVE 2 MICHIGAN GA'S ON THE 10 YARD-LINE LOOKING TO TRADE FOR 
2 FSU GA'S, OR TO SELL CALL ERIC AT 634-1 023 ASAP!II 
I need one Michigan student ticket. Please call 284-5311. Thank you! 
PERSONALS 
Come find out a way to beat the South bend winter: Study abroad in Chile! For more information come to 116 O'Shag at 7 p.m. on Wed. Sept. 
7. 
please keep you arms, legs, and toy­toy inside the vehicle at all times 
all the leaves are brown.... 

-
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
\-1\,Ci\'..1/ll-l! A.R.E.~T 'lO\..l EXCITED A.8J\JT GOM<; TO Scf\OOL ? Loo~::. M m n\£)£ GRg..T S::.\-IOOL S\JPPL\t.'S I GOT! I lO'JE. Ht>.IJ\t{G Nt.\'-1 
\-10\t.~KS A.NI:l 'STU\=(:.' 
No, r•..., 'SE.Z1•us .ft\Am tY\1\1<.£~ 
ME fEEL. lr-H\"OEO.UATE. r'Y\'1 
'SloMAC." \:;.1\t.P£1\"l>l QuEA'>~-··
I 0!1, t•;L.C & Fir<E. 
( I 
A.\.l.. I'YE GoT 10 'Sf>,.'{ IS 1\\t.'l'R£ 1'\0T ~'(~~~ME Lt:N<\.1 A.l-1'( ~R.'i::IGN LA~­G1JN;£S.' II= £NGL\SI-\ \S 
\:fXf0 E.NO\JG\-1 R:lR /rff, \\lEt-\ B'i GOW, IT'S l::lJ:fi) ~ Fa< 11\£. RESrc:f 11-1t WORLO! 

47 Courts 48 "--Cowboy" 49 Fashionable 
state? 54 Enact 55 Zone 56 Arched recess 57 "Flowers for 
Algernon" author Daniel 58 "... leave no --unstoned" 
59 Haydn's "Nelson," for one 
DOWN 
1 Wine description 2 George's lyricist 
brother 3 Address part 4 --out a living 
5 Some temps 6 "Two Women" 
Oscar winner 7 Remnants sTale of-­

ACROSS 
1 Petite or jumbo sGobs 9 Final Four 
rounds 14 Composer Satie 15--avail 16 Gather into 
folds 17 Fashionable 
African land? 19 Chain of hills 20Till 
compartment 21 Tartarus captive, in myth 22 Military encounter 25 --projection 
(map system) 27 Escargots 28 Embarrassment 30 Accede (to) 31 Places of refuge 32 Neither's 
partner 34 "The Twilight of 
the--" 35 Unites 36 Deal (out) 37--Lanka 38 Birdie beater 39"Give My 
Regards to Broadway" composer 
40 Meeting musts 42 "Canterbury 
Tales" inn 43 Gabriel, e.g. 44 Curmudgeon­
like 45Composer Duparc 

CROSSWORD 
' of. I I 
• '. 1 I I • o • • t f • I I I I 1 to+ 1 • • • 1 f' t I I I 
'1 
SPORTS 


The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Despite the stats showing just one interception, Bobby Taylor did plenty to prove his worth. 
• Volleyball 

Tuesday, September 6, 1994 
Taylor made 
Irish cornerback Bobby Taylor is the cornerstone of the secondary. 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN it differently. He stepped up, took the Sports Editor pass between the numbers and was off to the races. A two point conversion 
It's too bad such a play will never be failed for the Wildcats and an opportu­recognized in the stat book. 
nity for Taylor to get his name in the 
In the third quarter of Saturday's 
scoring column. Notre Dame-Northwestern game, cor­
"I was going along but then I gotnerback Bobby Taylor scampered down 
cramps or something," Taylor said smil­the sidelines, ball cradled in his arms, 
ing.
and two points on his mind. 

It was an excuse, but an acceptableHe had done what he has become best 
one. Hughes cut Taylor off and herded at in the country... cover wide 
him out of bounds. No two points, not receivers. Northwestern quarterback even credit for an interception.
Tim Hughes had looked to his right and 
Scoring would have been icing on a thrown to what he thought was an open target. The Longview, (Tex.) native saw see TAYLOR I page 9 
Irish top Mountaineers, bump record to 5-0 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
Freshman Angie Harris continues to shine for the undefeated Irish, with 20 digs. 
Peters and Harris lead again as Irish continue their early streak 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
Their record is unscathed. Their play remains sharp as a tack. 
With a combination of funda­mentals and smarts, experi­ence and youth, the Notre Dame volleyball team is off to a 5-0 start. After sweeping the Shamrock Invitational last weekend, the Irish continued their winning streak with a victory in four games over the Mountaineers of West Virginia. 
The Irish success was led once again by the experience of senior Christy Peters and the talent of freshman Angie Harris, who had 17 kills each in last night's victory, but Harris and Peters are not the only players to wreak havoc against Irish opponents. 
Sophomore middle blocker Jennifer Briggs contributed a strong performance at the net and in the back court, while senior co-captain Nicole Coates came in off the bench and supplied the Irish with 9 kills. 
"Jen has been making good digs for us," said coach Debbie Brown of Briggs,"and has been a very effective blocker. She makes the outside more effective." 

Brown attributes the success of the team to strong outside hitting performances and con­sistency in the setting and serving of the team. 
One of the keys of Irish suc­cess thus far this season has been its outside attack, and it has been nearly flawless. 
Whether referring to jump serves that seem to travel the speed of light, or "short" serves that leave opponents flustered and frustrated, div­ing to get a piece of the ball before it hits the floor, the Irish have used both power and intelligence to catch oppo­nents off guard, manipulating their weaknesses and taking advantage of their mistakes. 
Coach Brown is pleased with the great start of the season, but agrees that although it should get more exciting as the competition heightens, the road will definitely begin to get tougher for the Irish. 
They are looking ahead to Wednesday's match against Georgia Tech to be much more of a challenge than any­thing the Irish have seen in their first five games. 
"Georgia Tech is a very ver­satile, well-coached team," says Brown. "They play smart and execute the concepts of the game. We definitely look for them to be more of a match for us." 

ofnote...
49'ers rout Raiders 44-14 Ricky Watters (right) scored for San 
Look in tomorrow's Observer for 
-
Francisco, while Tim Brown hauled in a TD previews ofvolleyball and men's catch for Los Angeles. Also, Jerry Rice broke soccer. 
the NFL record for most career touchdowns. 
-f I I I >to o , 1 , If 1 t f • I ! ! i ~ 9 I I t f f I t I t I t 



