

Friday, February 18, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 93 THC INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Talks may 
•

continue two more weeks 
By RON KAMPEAS 
Associated Press 
TABA, Egypt 
Israeli and PLO negotiators said in ending a week of talks Thursday that most outstand­ing issues on police, prisoners and civilian government mat­ters could be resolved by early March. 
"We're just waiting for deci­sions from higher authorities," chief Palestinian negotiator Nabil Shaath said. 
Shaath and Israel's team chief, Maj. Gen. Amnon Sha­hak, sounded optimistic. Each predicted about two more weeks of talks. But the ten­dency to delegate upward has stalled the talks for months in the past. 
This week's security talks fo­cused on the Palestinian police force and the release of Pales­tinians jailed in Israel. Both sides said the police issue was closed in terms of outlining co­ordination between the force and the Israeli army. Important details, however, were left for Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and PLO leader Yasser Arafat to resolve. 
The Palestinians want 10,000 police and 100 armored vehi­cles with machine guns. The Israelis want a limit of 6,000 police and 30 armored vehi­cles. 
Others issues missing details include: 
-Whether travel documents will be called "travel docu­ments" or "passports." 
-Whether Palestinian postage stamps will be limited to internal use, within the au­tonomous area, as Israel de­sires. or can be used for over­seas mail as well. 
1 -7 pm 3pm 7pm 9 pm -1 am 
9:30am -12 pm 11 am· 4 pm 11 am &12 pm 1 pm &2:30pm 
2 pm -3:30 pm 
2 pm · 4 pm 
2:30 pm 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
'Tis better to light one little candle ... 
A Notre Dame student finds time for quiet reflection and prayer between the warmth of the Grotto and the stark Indiana winter. 


Porter analyzes gender perceptions 
By WENDY GRZYWACZ News Writer 
Although Thomas Aquinas' writing did not often focus on women's issues, his "austere view of gender roles" can be welcomed in the Catholic tradition of gender relations, according to Theology professor and Aquinas scholar Jean Porter, who gave a lecture yesterday. 
Noting that Aquinas does not have a lot to say about women, because of his centrality within the Catholic tradition, he has a "very positive ·role" in his "shared humanity" view of gender roles. Porter said. She explained that she was speaking "out of the perspectives" of her "tradi­tion" as both a woman and scholar from a Catholic background, 
Aquinas wrote that women were not "essen­tially different from men," and he believed that "both men and women were created in the divine image," Porter said. She also welcomed his unique "austerity and astringency" as she said the characteristic call to the "feminine pure woman" of traditional Catholic teachings, is "not finally a good thing for women." 
However, Porter also called attention to the 
see FEMINISM I page 4 

White House to allow race-based scholarships 


-4:30 pm Center for Social Concerns open house. -4:30 pm International Studies Program reception. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. pm · 4:30 pm ROTC receptions. Pasquerilla Center. -4 pm Theology Dept. reception. Library lounge. 
5:30 pm Mass. South Dome, JACC. 7 pm -10 pm Director Dinner. North Dome, JACC. 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 20 

9:30 pm ·12 pm Farewell Brunch. North Dome, JACC. 
By CAROLE FELDMAN 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Reversing Bush administra­tion policy, the Education De­partment will allow colleges and universities to target scholarships to minorities to remedy past discrimination or diversify the student body. 
People familiar with the de­partment's policy decision said it was based on a finding that the race-based scholarships do not violate federal law. 
"These kind of programs have been around for a long time," Robert Atwell, president of the American Council on Ed­ucation, said Wednesday night. "They are symbolically very important." 
He applauded Education Sec-
Hospitality Room. Dooley Room, LaFortune. Campus Tours depart from Hospitality Room. Blak Kofee House, variety show. LaFortune Ballroom. Night at the Oscars Gala. JACC. 

SATURDAY,FEBRUARY19 

Collegiate Workshops. Hospitality Room opens. Museum tours. Snite Museum of Art. Shenanigans concert with Troop NO. Annenburg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. Arts & Letters/Science Honors Program reception. 210 O'Shaughnessy. Office of Minority Student Affairs open house. 207 LaFortune. Jazz Band concert. Washington Hall. Campus Tour departs. Hospitality Room, LaFortune. 
retary Richard Riley's decision to allow them to continue. 
The future of race-based scholarships had been in limbo since 1990, when the Bush administration proposed that they be banned. 
Riley expressed his support for the scholarships soon after taking office last year. But he agreed to delay any policy changes pending completion of a General Accounting Office review of the scholarships. 
With the GAO's report in hand, the department has de­cided that schools may target scholarships toward minorities to overcome past discrimina­tion, and, under certain condi­tions, to seek a more diversified student body, according to a person briefed by the depart­ment. 

The person spoke on condi­tion of anonymity. Details of the briefing were confirmed by two people familiar with its con­tents. 
Education Department spokeswoman Kathryn Kahler declined comment on the de-. partment's decision. A formal announcement was expected later this week. 
Opponents contend that race­based scholarships violate fed­eral civil rights law and discriminate against white stu­dents by shrinking the amount of aid available to them. 
"I think they're illegal," said Richard Komer, who was the Education Department's deputy assistant secretary for civil rights when the Bush adminis­tration sought to bar the schol­arships. 
Komer, now an attorney with a private interest group called the Institute for Justice, said courts have held that a certain number of seats at a school can't be set aside for a particu­lar race. Using the same argu­ment, he said, "neither could you set aside a particular num­ber of scholarships." 
Richard Samp, chief counsel of the conservative Washington Legal Foundation, said the GAO report would only strengthen his hand in lawsuits challenging the scholarships. 
The GAO reported last month that 4 percent of undergradu­ate scholarship dollars -and 5 percent of actual scholarships -are awarded on the basis of race. 
Debates focus on contraception 
By AMY SCHMIDT 
News writer 
Sex kills so come to Notre Dame and live forever, accord­ing to senior Eric Escagne and teammate, freshman Christo­pher Regan of Stanford Hall who trounced Sorin's represen­tatives for the Iceberg Debates during last night's semi-final round. 
Escagne and Regan argued that contraceptives should not be distributed by the University 
because  it  would  threaten  
Notre  Dame's  Catholic  
Traditions.  

The Stanford team argued on the negative side, stressing the importance of Catholic charac­ter and integrity. The affirma­tive team consisted of senior Sorin residents Jonathan Lienhard and John Hinding. 
Lienhard and Hinding stressed two main arguments: the ·medicinal importance a contraceptive such as the pill, and the doctor/patient privacy privilege that is the right of all 


Regan said that Catholic character is what sets Notre Dame apart from other univer­sities across the country. That tradition, he said lets Notre Dame take a stand on moral is­
"Notre Dame has the best policy regarding STD's," he said. "Don't have sex." 
Escagne, who was named 
see STANFORD I page 4 

page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Bengal Bouts ... The epitome of 
com.petttton 
You have done thousands of push-ups and crunches for this moment. You have been stung and bloodied by countless jabs and rights for this moment, the moment you march through the crowd, climb the stairs and duck under 


the ropes. Matt Carbone Now, that moment has Accent Copy Editor arrived: The 64th Annual Bengal Bouts. You have sat through your classes for the past week, unable to pay attention. All you can con­centrate on and think about is the moment you'll step into the ring for your bout. You can now run twice as long as you once could. You can do three times as many push­ups. Your legs and stomach are hard; you've lost ten pounds. You're in the best shape of your life. You stand in your corner, hearing but not lis­tening to the introductions. All you can think is, 
"What is going to happen in the bout? Can I keep him away? Who will tire first? What if I get stunned?" . . 
You are jolted out of your anxious revene by the sound of the bell. You walk to the center o the ring, touch gloves, take a step back. The 
bout has begun.I The next six-and-a-half minutes are the 
longest and shortest of your life. When you look back on your bout tonight, and tomorrow, and countless times afterwards, it will have seemed 
I t 
to have gone by so quickly. 
You're not thinking this now, however. As you sit on the stool in your corner awaiting the final round, you cannot believe you still have another round to go. Your lungs are screaming.
f 
Your legs shake from fatigue. Yet when the bell 
' 
sounds, you get up and touch gloves at the cen­
ter of the ring. 
You parry, slip and jab, trying to remember and incorporate all of the punches, defenses and techniques you have been taught. It's a struggle just to keep you arms up. You feel like you can't throw one more punch, let alone 
combinations of punches. Yet somehow you 
keep throwing. 
After what seems like forever (How can 90 seconds last so long?), the bell rings, signaling the end of the third round and the bout's con­clusion. 
Next to the laugh of a girl and the voice o Sinatra, this bell is the prettiest sound you have ever heard in your life. 
You hug your equally exhausted opponent, proud to have gone the distance. 
Bernie Lincicome, sportswriter for The Chicago Tribune, put it best: "No place else in sports will you find more honest admiration for each other than in the moment a fight ends." 
The decision is announced. An arm is raised. Win or lose, you have done your best, pushing yourself further than you've ever been, than you ever thought yourself capable.. . 
In this moment, you can say, With pnde, that you're a Bengal Bouter. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obs.erver. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Laura Ferguson Accent Dave Tyler Bevin Kovalik 
Spons Chris Weirup Tom Schlidt Steve Tankovich Viewpoint Graphics 
Carolyn Wilkens Brendan Regan Lab Tech Business Eric Ruethling David Clairmont Production Michael Martin 
Kira Hutchinson 
Bridgene Farrell 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer· INSIDE 

WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Indian Romance Novels Bring Love Home 
NEW DELHI 
For years, bashful Indian teen-agers have secretly lived out their fantasies in the pages of romance novels imported from Britain. But now their dreams are coming home. A local publishing company just launched India's first series of English-language romances written by and about Indian women, selling out its January and February editions. The books -with no sex and just one kiss in the final pages -are far less explicit than the English Mills & Boon romance novels in which passion _is vivid and sometimes steamy. But the new romances still challenge the conservative values of a country where most marriages are arranged by elders and many Jove­starved teens dare not hold hands in public. Only 4 per­cent, or 35 million of India's 880 million people, read English. Still, Rupa editors say there's a big market for English-language romances cultivated by Mills & Boon. Kissing is all right, but only just. In "A Symphony of Hearts," the February release, a 28-year-old filmmaker and her business tycoon sweetheart first kiss on the sec­ond-to-last page. Then they get married. 
Paper Defends Use of Doctored Photo 
NEW YORK 
A photo that could not have been taken before today appeared on the front page of New York Newsday on Wednesday -Olympic skaters Nancy Kerrigan and Tonya Harding at practice on the same ice. All but unde­tectable as a fake, the photo included a caption saying the skaters "appear to skate together in this New York Newsday composite illustration. Tomorrow, they'll really take to the ice together." That's exactly what happened and photos of the actual event became available this morning. Pictures blending separate images together have increasingly become an ethical issue with advances in digital computerized editing techniCJl:les. ~ill Se~rin, a journalism professor at.Ne~. York Umvers1ty, _said the front page distorts reahty. If readers are gomg by a newsstand, they're going to suspect it's a real picture. And that's why they put it on there, is to sell newspa­pers," he said. Don Forst, editor of New York Newsday, defended the picture as one that "set the table" for what would happen the following day in a dramatic story, and was not a deception. "It wasn't hidden; it was in 12-point type," he said. Twelve points is roughly one-sixth of an inch. 
Taylor Will Undergo Hip Replacement 
LOS ANGELES 
Actress Elizabeth Taylor, struggling with painful arthritis in her hip, will undergo hip replacement surgery next month, a spokeswoman said today. "She's been in pain for some time," said Miss Taylor's publicist, Chen Sam. Miss Taylor, 61, was hospitalized at St. John's Hospital and Health Center in Santa Monica on Jan. 14 for tests on her hip. She left abruptly when the deadly 

Jan. 17 earthquake forced evacuation of the hospital. A statement from Dr. John Moreland, an orthopedic sur­geon said Taylor has osteoarthritis in her left hip, a con­ditio~ in which cartilage has worn out, "causing painful bone-on-bone contact. Taylor will be hospitalized from five to seven days, Sam said. The exact date and location of the operation were not disclosed. 
Friday, February 18, 1994 


Stopping cellular piracy 
Each year. cellular telephone companies lose hundreds of millions of dollars to high-tech thieves who pull their signals out of the air to create counterfeit phones. Carriers are fighting back with a variety of weapons, including computer software that recognizes unusual calling pa«erns. 
The theft 
The clone phones are sold or rented to criminals who make calls that are billed to the owner ot the legitimate phone. 

Catching the crooks 

Cellular carriers are fighting back w~h sophisticated computer software. 


The software CaDs are When suspicious monhors cellular compared to phone activity is telephone calls. profiles of the detected, the 
calling behavior of system alerts lhe cellular phone cellular phone Sl.lbscribers. company about 
the possible traud. 
The syslem can "'earn' trorn its accumulated data, improving its 8CCUlBC'(. 
AP/Kar1 Tate 

ABC schedules Roseanne's kiss 
NEW YORK 

There may not be a kiss-off for "Roseanne" after all. ABC said Thursday it will air an episode of the popular comedy March 1 that features Roseanne Arnold exchanging a kiss with Marie! Hemingway in a gay bar. Exactly how that encounter will play remains to be seen, according to ABC spokesman Steve Battaglio, who said 


the segment had been shot but postpro­duction was not complete. "There have been discussions concerning how the kiss will be depicted," Battaglio said. "Those talks are continuing." He said the episode will also carry a parental discretion advisory. In the episode, titled "Don't Ask, Don't Tell," Arnold's character, Roseanne Conner, goes to a bar with bisexual friend Nancy, played by Sandra Bernha~d. After danc.ing ~!th Hemingway, Roseanne makes a Wisecrack that IS misin­terpreted. The kiss results. Earlier this month, Tom Arnold, husband of the star and the series' co-executive producer, charged that ABC was refusing to ~ir th_e episode because of the kiss. He called the network s deci­sion misguided and "homophobic," adding, "Roseanne is shocked." 
INDIANA Weather 
Friday, Feb. IS 
Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

NATIONAL Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 18. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu·Weather. Inc. 

H-L m &'Sl!TIJ 0 ~§ -Q ~u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORNS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CWUDY 
1/10-"'­

Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Colombus 
67 42 Dallas 71 42 Minneapolis 44 19 
49 28 Denver 62 30 New Orleans 71 45 40 18 Hartford 42 11 New York 48 22 51 34 Los Angeles 63 50 Philadelphia 46 25 52 23 Miami 73 69 Phoenix 77 60 
Friday, February 18, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page3 







Michiana community, church battle crime increase 
By PATRICK STONELAKE 
News Writer 
Community and church leaders gathered in The Hesburgh Center for Internaitonal Studies last night to voice concern over the recent local and national rise in crime; and how the Michiana area can combat this problem. 
The Crime Initiative Confer­ence for Church Leaders was headed by Reverend Sylvester Williams, Jr. of I.C.U. ministries in South Bend. This ministry manages WUBS-FM, a local radio station dedicated "to the cause of a violence-free com­munity". 
I.C.U. has targeted an area of South Bend for a door-to-door education campaign with the dual purpose of decreasing the hold of violent crime on the community and preventing the spread of violence into the younger generation. 
This targeted area, which is bounded by Portage street to the north, Williams street to the east, Western street to the south, and Oliv"e street to the west, was selected specifically by Williams for its diversity. 
Demographically, the area cuts across all boundaries, eco­nomically and socially. Williams stressed that there is good and bad here, "businesses both legal and illegal". He called last night's conference_in order to gain input from sever­al church and community lead­ers in the St. Joseph county area and to foster interest in achieving five goals through this campaign . 
"We must collectively move in unity, disregarding differences in faith and trusting in a com­mon belief in Jesus," Williams said. 
He also stressed the impor-

When the Great 
American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley. C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon. C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6JX5 
tance of enlisting parishioners and making the people actively involved in taking back their community. Equally important is the development of trust, and the creation of the idea that "this is a two way street". 
"We are not here to be your sugar daddy," he said. "We are not here to give handouts". 
To illustrate the ideas be­hinfd this program, and the means of implementing them, Williams called upon Patricia O'Donnell; a graduate student in sociology. 
O'Donnell did her masters thesis on the correlation be­tween child abuse and violent crime and her concentration for the past five years has been violent crime. 
O'Donnell presented three major focuses which any pro­gram of this kind must adopt. 
The first is prevention, which, she said, starts in the home. In a study of prison inmates in 1986, it was found that inmates convicted of violent crimes were "far more likely to have been a victim of child abuse" than those convicted of nonvio­lent crimes. 
Other precursors for violent crime are a lack of role models or employment for the youth of the community, or appealing alternatives for the benefits of a gang lifestyle. 


In order to reverse this dan­gerous trend O'Donnell sug­gested investment, both finan­cially and spiritually, in these "high-risk" communities. Posi­tive programs of improvement in education and housing, for example, would be a logical first step for the Conference. 
Look Who s 21. 


Happy Birthday Brian! 
We love you! 
Mom, Dad, Nick & Gramps 

TRAVEL EMERGENCY KIT 

A second important goal is the halting of career criminal violence. Statistics have shown that a small percentage of criminals commit a large majority of crimes, and inter­vening in this group is a crucial goal. 
"It is a short career," said 0'­Donnell, "and we only have a short time to catch and stop it". 
This means improvement of police-community relations by the increase of foot patrols and lessening the area which an individual officer patrols. 
Thirdly. recidivism must be decreased, according to o·­Donnell. 
The amount of criminals who commit additional crimes upon their release from prison is on the rise, because the inmates in most cases think that they have no viable alternative. Prison vocation programs and halfWay houses have worked before, but O'Donnell warned, "If there was one specific program that was proven to work, it would have been implemented ev­erywhere". 
In order to have the desired effect, the program must be in­tegrated into the community. She applauded the leaders on their effort. 
"Each individual we lose is a potential contributor to our so­ciety. It is worth the effort to prevent even one person from becoming a violent criminal," she said. 
Suburban pastor Warren Wolmer expressed concern that suburban parishes live in a "comfort zone". 
He pointed out the racial and economic polarization of churches, and suggested con­centrating not so much on the diversity of the church com­munities, but on our unity in Jesus. 
"We have common ground that we can move forward on". 
Also represented was the March For Jesus Campaign, which, through local represen­tatives Jim and Sharon Chump expressed interest in having a march in South Bend. 
The march was started in 1987 when almost 15,000 peo­ple processed singing through a cold London rain. This year's march, scheduled for June 25th, will be worldwide, involv­ing more than 100 nations. Chump presented the march as part of a solution for the com­munity. 
"The sole purpose," he said," is not to change peoples' doc­trines and beliefs but to exalt Jesus Christ in the streets". 
' 
f 
r. 
I 
i 
I 
page 4 
Feminism 
continued from page 1 
"undoubted ambiguities" and marked disinterest of Aquinas in women's issues. 
Aquinas followed many of the beliefs of Aristotle. includ­ing his belief that women re­sulted from a "defect in biol­ogy" and that women were meant to be subordinate, espe­cially in marriage, she said. 
In her discussion of tradition, Porter called for a much greater inclusiveness -espe­cially at Notre Dame, where the preservation of tradition is con­sidered so important. 
"This tradition can often be "construed and valorized in a way that can be exclusionary rather than inclusive," she said. 
Finally, what Porter called the "politicizing" of the reading of Aquinas on the campus of Notre Dame, urged her to call for "scholarly standards and objectivity" in the reading of his material. 

Pangborn 
continued from page 1 
mitted diseases. He went on to say that it would be in the best interest of the University to pre­vent unwanted pregnancies and diseases. 
Poulakidas and Shnorenberg argued on the negative, saying 

The Obseryer/Scott Mendenhall Pangborn junior Laura Shnorenburg and her partner won big last night in the semifinal round of the Iceberg Debates. 
that provision of contraceptives on campus would be a direct 
. violation of Catholic Church's teaching. They stated that mak­ing birth control availble in effect condones premarital sex, which contradicts Catholic doc­trine. 
They cited cases at both Fordham and Marquette Uni­versities (both Catholic institu­tions) in which condom distri-

The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for: 
Assistant Marketing Director 
Applicants should be creative, have an interest in marketing, solid Macintosh experience, and strong self-motivation. If there are any questions please call Jake Peters at 1-5323 or Tom Lillig at 1-6900. Applicants are asked to submit a resume no later than 5 p.m. Friday, February 18. 
;M-: 
SAIN'Tiiii'A:<Y S "C"''lTEGE 
t\ORfftU CfMTfR 
fOR lttl <tl R T S THIS FRIDAY, FEB. 18.8 P.M~, O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
COWMBIA ARTISTS PRESENTS 
Hungarian State Folk Ensembk 
COMPANY OF 70 DANCERS • CHORUS · ORCHESTRA 
Tr~<~soortaMn tlfO'(!Oee! !l'f ~Hunganan A1rtines,i 
ONE SHOW ONLV. SM'S-ND COMMUNITY $8; STUDENTS $6 llif '>AI~! Mi \ COll!Gf llfPARI/iJNT Of [()'OJI.UHIG\nO~.llAKCf &llifAfRf PRf\fNT'> 
QUILTERS AORAIMWffii/1\lNC 
BY BARBARA DMA'>HEK &/1\0lli ~fWIMH lltRRlHJ BY KAllf \UlliVtJI 
lHURSDAV-SitHDAV, HB. 14-17 
lM. i ~0 (~U~If{ )4 'iAIMT MAR¥ 'i )nJOf~T) i3 liCk(·ts :nr .1!! evc·nts nn -;,1!c ,1t the S.11nt Marv·s box ~~'''
~,-\: .• 

· >ti1ce. 1..c.1tcd 1n O'Laugh~lm .\udil•)rlurn," ;un. ' 
.... ,..'t ' 

p.rn. :Vtondav-Fnday. V1sa, Mastcr<~Jrd J.nd •· Ui~C<iV<'f •)fcl('fS b\ phun(· .ll ... .-' ~~~:'20.:.l-462b. p 
r~ 
bution campaigns were shut down by the administrations. Both put forth the assessment that abstinence is the only truly effective form of birth and dis­ease control. 
f 1993 The Ol1ve Garden Restaurants. 



Stanford 
continued from page 1 
best speaker, went on to say that the availability of condoms may promote promiscuity on campus. 
He also pointed out that it is important to express Catholi­cism both inside and outside the classroom. 
"We risk losing Catholic char­acter by taking on such secular trends." 
"Notre Dame wants us to be good people," he said, "so they must stick to their Catholic val­ues." 
Hinding said that they did not necessarily support. funding or random dispensing of contra­ceptives. He did say that the University should continue to allow doctors their full proper and ethical function, even if it means dealing with contracep­tives. 
"This is not just a question of contraception," said Hinding. " It is a question of life and death, and every alternative should be available for discus­sion." 
Lienhard added that just be­cause Notre Dame would make contraceptives available, it would not mean that they would support usage. He com-Friday, February 18, 1994 
pared this idea to the presence of "dissenting theologians and non-Catholic students whose ideas are not necessarily sup­ported by the university." 
The judges concurred that the main fallacy of the affirma­tive team was their failure to address the Catholic character issue presented by the negative team. 
According to the judges the negative team presented more relevant information, and ad­dressed the topic of Catholic character more effectively. 
The Stanford team received votes from all three judges: Pa­tricia Blanchette assistant pro­fessor of philosophy, Ramzi Bualuan lecturer of computer science, and Catherine Chavez, law student. 
Escagne and Regan will ad­vance to the final round of the debates to be held on Feb. 24 in LaFortune. 
If you see news happening, let us know at The Observer: 631-7471 
HERE'S ACOURSE THAT COMBINES ITALIAN AND ECONOMICS. 
I 
I 

/ 
...... 
.... ­
-~ ~ 



-~~c= 
~;;~ 
ALL YOU CAN EAT 

SPAGHETTI, . GARDEN SALAD, & BREADSTICKS 
L 


$5.95 I ~. 
. '

TUESDA~S~FTER 4 PM 

~~~~---~-I 
'"~~-:.·>>M,', a,· -. )!J . . -,.... .,, 
, __ ·::fillS;;;.,:. ---·-_ rf):<tal \ ; 
-.... ---il: _~.... ....... 
Talk about a heavy course load. If you're a Notre Dame or St. Mary's student or staff member, just show us your ID and we'll give you all-you­can-eat spaghetti with your choice of marinara, tomato or meat sauce. Plus unlimited fresh garden salad and ~• warm garlic breadsticks. It's all -,~ just $5.95. And you don't have 01..•... 
to be a math major to figure ~ out that that's a great deal. 
ITALIAN 

WHERE At.i THE BEsT Or llAlY IsYOL!RS 
•OJ)Posite Un1versity Park Mall, 277-6503. 



The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

Hunting for Dollars 
Pasquerilla East junior Jennifer Schnieders and Dillon junior Joe Bergan ponder their next move in the Ernst and Young Recruiting Scavenger Hunt last night in LaFortune. The event was designed to acquaint junior accounting majors with the rigors of the interviewing process. 

Francesca 
Happy 19l1 Birthday! 
Love, Grandma, Mom &Ricky 
FEC: LaRouche to receive funds 
By CASSANDRA BURRELL Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Political extremist,.. Lyndon LaRouche's 199 2 presidential campaign will be paid an initial $100,000 in federal matching funds for an unsuccessful race he ran from prison. 
The Federal Election Com­mission approved the payment Tfiursday to comply with a Supreme Court ruling that ended a legal squabble over whether LaRouche was entitled to the money. 
page 5 

Senate bill federalizes too many crimes, says Reno 
By MICHAEL SNIFFEN Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Too many crimes better han­dled by local police and prose­cutors could become federal cases under the Senate crime bill, Attorney General Janet Reno said Thursday. 
"There's an effort in some of the Senate provisions to federalize too many crimes that should be handled by local prosecutors and should be han­dled by local police officers," Reno told her weekly news con­ference. "They're not federal issues, and they're not a feder­al problem." 
Reno did not say which pro­visions she objected to. 
The $22.3 billion crime bill passed by the Senate last November would make most gun-related violent crimes fed-
The campaign may apply for more matching funds April 1, the FEC said. The final total will depend on the total amount of money raised for the cam­paign. 
LaRouche -who has run for the Democratic presidential nomination in every election since 1976-was paroled from prison Jan. 26 after serving five years of a 15-year sentence. He was convicted of mail fraud and conspiring to defraud the Internal Revenue Service by deliberately defaulting on more than $30 million in campaign loans from supporters. 
LaRouche received matching funds for his 1980, 1984, and 1988 campaigns, which fea­tured warnings of global eco­nomic collapse, political up­heaval and war. 
But the FEC at frrst refused to certify LaRouche as eligible for the money for the 1992 race because of the conviction and past violations of federal elec­tion law. 
"He was denied because of fraud related to fund-raising," FEC spokeswoman Kelly Huff said. 
eral offenses subject to manda­tory minimum sentences, such as 10 years in prison for pos­sessing a gun during a robbery. Experts estimate more than half a million state and local of­fenses that could become fed­eral crimes under the gun amendment alone. 
In addition, the Senate bill would make federal crimes out of many gang-related actions, including encouraging someone to join a street gang involved in illegal activities. 
House committees are at work on several crimes mea­sures that might be combined with the Senate bill in a confer­ence. 
The Clinton administration is growing more favorable to the Senate bill daily but still has not spelled out its position on many of its specific provisions. 
<:-..::·: .. 
ncheon 
February 19 

SHANE~ 
What a smile.. then and now! Happy 21st Birthday! 
Love, Dad, Mom and Erin 
1 .,. 14" Large Cheese Pizza 


00 
(additional toppings 95¢) 
Offer Good 

Z71-ll77 
Thru

The Most Popular 
4.. 1)..94

Nwnber on Campus! 

TEACH FOR AMERICA 
People think 
,
there are limits to what we can do. that it's out ofour reach to really change the way things are. I feel thm is no limit to what we can do-it only depends on how much ofourselves we want to give. 
-TEACH FoR AMERICA 
CORPS MEMBER 
See your career office for applications. If none are available, pie=: call 1-800/832-1230 ext.l20. 
If your complcttd applica1lon was postmarked by J.anu;ary IS. 1994, you have brcn gwr:mtttd an intr"rview and will rcct"ivr" notification in the mail. 

page 6 The Ob~erver • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 18, 1994 
Bosnian Serbs begin large-scale withdrawal ofbig guns 
By TONY SMITH 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 
Convoys of Bosnian Serb ar­tillery withdrew from the hills around Sarajevo on Thursday in compliance with a NATO ul­timatum to pull back or be bombed. "We do think the war in Sarajevo is finally over," Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic said. 
The pullout reported by U.N. monitors followed a pledge by Karadzic to meet NATO's Sun­day deadline. He made the con­cession under pressure from Russia. 
Karadzic spoke with re­porters after meeting with Vi­taly Churkin, Russia's special envoy, in Pale, the Bosnian Serb stronghold southeast of Sarajevo. 
Lt. Col Bill Aikman, a U.N. spokesman in the shell-shat­tered Bosnian capital, said U.N. monitors saw convoys of heavy equipment moving off the hills, and U.N. commanders received information that withdrawals meeting NATO conditions would be completed within 36 hours. 
It was the first significant Serb withdrawal of heavy guns 
since NATO issued its ultima­tum Feb. 9. NATO has said all heavy guns within a 13-mile radius of Sarajevo must be re­moved or placed under U.N. control by Sunday or face NATO bombardment. Serbs have re­lentlessly shelled the city from their positions in the surround­ing hills for pearly two years. 
Aikman called the quickening pace of Serb withdrawals "a very heartening sign." 
Signs emerged that in the face of lukewarm Russian sup­port of Serb defiance this week, pullouts began even before Thursday's meeting in Pale. Aikman said he suspected the withdrawals have "been going on for over the past 24 hours." 
President Clinton told re­porters in Washington earlier Thursday, "I hope the air strikes will not be necessary, and they will not occur if the Serbs will comply." 
The Russians have been the most powerful ally of the Serbs, their fellow Slavs and Orthodox Christians. Karadzic's promise, coming after the meeting with the Russian envoy, appeared to reflect Serb acceptance that Moscow had reluctantly lined up behind NATO to prevent 

Mrican army training stirs debate 
By ARIEH O'SULLIVAN 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Israel has approved a $50 million deal to send combat vet­erans to the Congo to train the army, but some Parliament members and moms want lim­its on sending young Israeli men on private military ven­tures. 
Interior Minister Martin Mberri of Congo confirmed that Israelis were training a special presidential guard under a con­tract with Lavdan, a private Is­raeli arms supplier. 
"The agreement will permit our armed forces to have a new attitude and. to respond promptly to instances of social unrest," he told a news confer­ence Wednesday in Brazzaville, Congo's capital. 
Mberri's comments were the first government confirmation that it hired Israeli military ex­perts to help put down an eight-month battle with opposi­tion guerrillas claiming fraud in last year's elections. 
About 40 Israelis recently re­leased from elite combat units and led by a retired one-star general are already in the Cen­tral African country. A group of 20 more are slated to join them at a secret training area short­ly, despite opposition from Israeli legislators and worried parents. 
The Defense Ministry autho­rized the Israeli company to provide military advice to President Pascal Lissouba, who 
II NOTRE DAME I FLORIDA ST. 
colors 

NOTRE DAME THEREAt. 1993 NATIONAL FOOTBALL 
CHAMPIONS 100% Heavyweight 
cotton T-Shlrts 
& Sweatshirts 

BACK 
T-Shlrts Sweatshirts 
$15.112.. $25.92. 
Phone Orders Accepted! 
and under_add $4.50 

310-791-4492 shipping 
l-$50__add $5.50 

VISA-M.C. CHECK 
' ' 
and l-$100__add $6.50

Winning systems, Inc. '' 
3805 PCH, Suite 101 handling l 00.01-$200 _add $7.50 

Torrance, CA 90505 " and over-add
"' 

The shirt that tells the TRUTH! 

doesn't military 
t~e pilot~:~ 
targeting 
war. 
Bosnian Serb generals railed against the NATO ultimatum in a reflection of the frustration of having to pull back and lose 
is fighting rebels loyal to ousted President Denis Sassou­Nguesso. 
Sassou-Nguesso used to have Israeli bodyguards, raising fears that Israelis could end up fighting Israelis. 
"Israel should try to keep out of places in which aid is being used for internal security pur­poses for regimes that have a history of being unstable," Benny Temkin of the left-wing Meretz party said Thursday. 
Temkin led an effort in Par­liament to bar the departure of more military trainers to Congo. 

·.· ·• th~r~fore. thl~ op~fation .· 
would no~ be Jiice th~ war 
•againstlraq, withi~•·potential for d~sert~cie~r skies and wide­. open. t ·· ry. t() con...duct pun­\shing . om ing Ii}issioris, one mUitary specialist ····said 
Thursday. · ·•·•·· ·••·• 
"This won't be a replay of Desert Storm. That was a sledgehammer.... Here, air ·space is more limited and they will have to carefUlly··coordi­
gen­erals have defie Karadzic before, and it was unclear if they would honor the promises made. 
"We are openly telling every­one: In case of air strikes, all · on our territory will become hostages," Gen. Manojlo Milo­vanovic, Bosnian Serb army chief of staff, said in an inter­view published in Friday edi­tions of the weekly lntervju. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
Circulation Drivers 
Circulation Drivers needed between 11:00 a.m. ­2:00p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. If interested, call Joe Riley at 4-1780. 
A New Series for GraJuate Students 
Presenting 
Discussing 

Maximizing Academic Performance in Graduate School: A Workshop Using the Insights of Sports Psychology 
Dr. Vachon will discuss techniques for improving: 
* 
concentration 

* 
your ability to cope with academic anxiety 

* 
productivity in studying and writing *confidence in your study strategy 

* 
your ability to pace yourself in your academic studies 


DATE: TIME: AT:  SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 20 7:00 P.M. -8:15 P.M. FISCHER O'HARA/GRACE COMMUNITY CENTER  
Sponsored by:  

The University Counseling Center Campus Ministry Fischer-O'Hara Grace University Village Graduate Student Union 
Refreshments will be provided! 

Friday, February 18, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Arthritis drugs may delay or halt Alzheimer's disease 

sional aides, who spoke on con-Alzheimer's disease is a de­

generative, fatal disorder in which brain cells die and pa­
The Department of Music Prrsents 
tients progressively lose mem­ory and function. 
uru~!,.~W.,OE!~!'cf;L, 
Breitner said the protective

in a 
effect of the anti-inflammatory drugs was most pronounced in
r:Bacft Organ J"estiva{ 
twin pairs in which one mem­ber developed Alzheimer's after 
%e !Tina[ Concert 
age 71. He said the statistical evi­
WVednesday, feb. 9 
dence was strongest in women. "For the female pairs, all 12
Tuesday, feb. 15 
pairs studied had the associa­
tion where the member of the pair who used the anti-inflam­all concerts are at 
Sunday, Feb. 20 
matory drug did not have Alzheimer's or developed it
8:00p.m. 
late," said·Breitner. 
Sacred Heart Basilica 
Arthur Andersen is proud to announce the following University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students have accepted employment offers to join us after graduation. 
U.S. to keep control of forces 
ByJOHN DIAMOND congressional criticism about dition of anonymity, said Clin­Associated Press U.S. participation in the U.N. ton was expected to sign the di­humanitarian effort in Somalia rective in a matter of weeks. WASHINGTON and concerns about the possi­
In a revamped, still-classified bility of NATO air strikes over According to the draft policy: proposal, the Clinton adminis­Bosnia. -The president "retains and tration says the United States A typical comment came ear­will not relinquish command should retain command over its lier this month from Senate authority over U.S. forces par­military forces involved in Republican leader Bob Dole: ticipating in U.N. peace opera­United Nations peacekeeping "United Nations peacekeeping tions." missions. -both at headquarters in New -The greater the likely U.S. 
The proposal drafted by York and in the field-is out of combat role, the less likely that President Clinton's national se­control." the president would "consider curity team is a substantial re­placing U.S. forces under oper­
versal from a policy contem­The policy, titled ational control of a U.N. com­plated last year that would "Presidential Decision Directive mander." have involved rapid expansion 13," is still in draft form. But -Contrary to Clinton's state­of U.S. involvement in administration officials briefed ments during his presidential peacekeeping and the accep­lawmakers and key congres­campaign, the United States tance of U.N. command over sional staffers on the proposal would not establish any sepa­
U.S. troops. this week. A copy of an admin­rate military force for istration summary was ob­participation in U.N. opera­
Under the new proposal, the tained Thursday by The Associ­tions. United States would yield op­ated Press. -The United States reserves erational control of military Pentagon spokeswoman the right to terminate participa­forces only on a case-by-case Kathleen deLaski said Clinton tion in peacekeeping operations basis and could overrule an or­has not yet signed the docu­at any time. der from a U.N. commander. ment but said it is "nearing a 
SECURITY BEAT

The turnabout follows stiff state of readiness." Congres­
By PAUL RECER Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Anti-inflammatory drugs used against arthritis also tend to slow or block the onset of mind-destroying Alzheimer's disease, a study suggests. 
The study, to be published Friday in the journal Neurol­ogy, compared the drug-taking history of 50 pairs of elderly twins and found that the twin who had been taking anti-in­flammatory drugs for arthritis was least affected by Alzheimer's. 
"We found that the twins who had used anti-inflammatory drugs had four times greater likelihood of being the later-af­fected and the non-affected member of the pair," said Dr. 
John Breitner, a Duke Univer­sity researcher and lead author of the study. "For identical twins, there was a 10-to-1 dif­ference." 
Anti-inflammatory drugs in­cluded ibuprofen, piroxicam, naproxen and some steroids that were used for arthritis in the 1950s and 1960s, but which are no longer prescribed. All of these drugs, at proper doses, tend to limit inflammation throughout the body, including the brain. 
Dr. Leonard Berg, chairman of the medical advisory board of the national Alzheimer's Association, cautioned that the evidence of benefit "is not convincing enough to advise the population at large to take anti­inflammatory drugs to avoid Alzheimer's. There are side effects to these drugs." 
Christopher Adler, Chicago Elizabeth Baillargeon, Chicago Christopher Barry, Chicago Angeles Beltri, Hollston Michael Bremner, Chicago Jane Brooks, Chicago Robert Burke, Chicago 
L. Russell Carr, Chicago Carolyn Carson, Chicago Dennis Dixon, Pittsburgh Greg Graceffo, Boston Amy Hughes, Chicago Christopher Ike, New York Regina Kearns, New York David Kisch, Minneapolis Aaron Kutylo, Chicago Ann Laing, Denver Daniel Lee, Chicago Robert Leonard, Atlanta Tiffany Loughren, Pittsburgh Sarah Lowthorp, Minneapolis Elizabeth McConnell, Chicago James McGuire, Minneapolis Colleen O'Connor, Atlanta Theodore Peterson, Cincinnati Anne Pierson, Atlanta Ryan Regan, Washington, DC Benjamin Roese, Chicago Kimberly Rouster, Atlanta Michael Scrudato, New York John Sebastian, Chicago Christian Sepe, New York Thomas Seurynck, Chicago Daniel Sheridan, Chicago Kimberly Sweeney, Pittsburgh Megan Swiderski, New York Douglas Vincent, Chicago Astrid Wehner, Chicago Greg Wozniak, Chicago 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co SC 

-------------~~-------~ ---~--­
pageS The Observer • NEWS Friday, February 18, 1994 
Clinton tells Imus turf wasn't what he thought 
By NANCY BENAC 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton engaged in drive-time banter with New York radio host Don Imus today and insisted the much-joked­about AstroTurf in the back of a pickup truck he once owned "wasn't for what everyone thought it was for." 
Imus, the raucous host of WFAN-AM's "Imus in the Morning," fired a mix of seri­ous and silly questions at the president in a long-distance in­terview from the residential quarters at the White House. 
One of the most probing con­cerned Clinton's recent fond recollections about an El Camino pickup he had in the 1970s that was furnished with AstroTurf in the back. 
Imus demanded: What WAS that AstroTurf for? Clinton protested the obvious connotations. 
"It wasn't for what for every­one thought it was for when I made the comment, I'll tell you that," he insisted. ''I'm guilty of a lot of things, but I didn't ever do THAT." 
Imus respectfully chided Clinton with a reference to his campaign-days disclaimer that he had tried marijuana but not inhaled. 
"That's like saying you didn't inhale, Mr. President," he said. "No, "it's just that I didn't in­
hale in the back of a pickup," Clinton shot back. 
From there, the conservation veered between serious sub­jects like Bosnia and Japan's trade deficit and less weighty matters -like Clinton's weight. 
Imus teased Clinton about his much-chronicled double lunch during a visit to Ohio on Tues­day. Clinton downed a Clinton burger, a pastrami sandwich and a giant apple fritter, among other things. 
"Hey, hey, that apple fritter, I had one bite," Clinton protest­ed. 
But then he confessed. 

"I did get off my diet that day," he said. "But I was trans­ported. I was out there at a place I felt at home in." 
When the butcher's assistant at a deli made him a Clinton burger, "I thought, well, I'm going to eat it." 
At times during the Imus in­terview, the line between sub­stance and silliness got blurred, such as when Imus suggested Clinton and the first lady go on the TV program "American Gladiators" to tackle Harry and Louise, the actors who criticize the president's health insur­ance plan in TV ads. 
"You know, I wouldn't mind that actually," Clinton said. "The first I heard about them, I thought they were Thelma and Louise." 
Imus, who was hospitalized for lung surgery last year, gave Clinton's health plan a vote. 
By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Hillary Rodham Clinton sat down with the government's top medical researchers and met a child whose life has been saved by experimental gene therapy. 
Afterwards she marveled at what she learned and jokingly predicted that the National In­stitutes of Health scientists "will soon discover we all have pre-existing conditions and are all totally uninsurable." 
But she also delivered a blunt message Thursday to the gov­ernment's top doctors: Stand up for the Clinton health reforms or risk erosion of support for the system that produces so many medical miracles. 
While President Clinton wooed labor and senior citizen leaders at the White House, the first lady told NIH leaders that "the stupidity" of the way America pays for health care "threatens the quality of all that you do." 
She said managed-care plans are refusing to send patients to academic medical centers be­cause of their higher cost. 
She met privately with Ashanti DeSilva, a now healthy 7-year-old from Ohio who in 1991 became one of the first patients to undergo gene ther­apy for a severe immune defi­ciency. 
Mrs. Clinton said the Clinton plan would cover all experi­mental treatments in clinical 

Clinton: Probe to cost millions 
ByPETEYOST 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton declared Thursday the Whitewater crim­inal investigation will cost tax­payers millions of dollars though "most of it has nothing to do with me." The prosecutor turned his attention to Mrs. Clinton's former law firm. 
In Little Rock, Ark., a broad document called a notice sub­poena was delivered to the Rose law firm this week includ­ing "an admonition against any shredding or destruction of materials," said one person employed by the firm. 
Special counsel Robert Fiske's admonition directs the firm to preserve information on computers as well as paper documents that may pertain to the investigation, according to a second person who was read portions of the notice by a dif­ferent Rose employee. Both people spoke on condition of anonymity. 
After a report in The Wash­ington Times last week raising the question of shredding, FBI agents asked law firm employ­ees whether they witnessed any documents being destroyed, the first person said. 
Attorneys at the Rose law firm -who deny any shredding took place -have been gather­ing material for the wide-rang­ing investigation. 

Researchers to back health plan 
trials and require health plans to contract with academic health centers to treat "rare and complicated diseases." 
Mrs. Clinton said the presi­dent's approach would guaran­tee that "every citizen can take full advantage of the break­throughs you achieve here." 
"We are facing challenges from those who do not believe in research.... What we hope you will do as scientists and re­searchers and doctors is to take a stand on behalf of what you know and what you care about," she said. 
"Your voices will be heard loudly. You have more credibil­ity than many of the forces ar­rayed against the changes that we seek," Mrs. Clinton said. 
At the White House, the pres­ident told leaders of a dozen senior citizen and labor groups they must "fight together" to win new drug and long-term care benefits for the elderly as part of reform. 
Clinton said Medicare faces serious threats from other re­form plans as well as the pro­posed balanced budget amend­ment. 
The White House brunch drew executives from the AFL­CIO, the United Auto Workers, the National Council of Senior Citizens as well as the Ameri­can Association of Retired Per­sons, which has declined to en­dorse the Clinton bill. 
AARP Executive Director Ho­race Deets said the Clinton plan was the only one with a chance to pass that meets his group's bottom line: drug coverage and expanded long-term care. 
Deets said the AARP will run a grassroots campaign to edu­cate its wavering and confused membership about Clinton's plan. An official endorsement is possible later, he indicated. 
A coalition of labor, business and consumer groups went to bat for another embattled piece of Clinton's health plan -the promised government takeover of 80 percent of the costs of in­surance for early retirees ages 55 to 64. 
Letitia Chambers, executive director of the Pre-Medicare Health Security Coalition, said it would cost just $3 billion to $4 billion after a three-year phase-in. Republicans contend it would be far more costly and encourage people to quit work­ing early. 
Chambers said these are peo­ple whose "income is going down while health costs are going up.... We can't let them fall through the cracks." 
The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for: 
Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 
Applicants are asked to submit a 2 page personal statement and resume to Sarah Doran no later than 5 p.m. Sunday, February 20. For additional information, contact Sarah at 631-5323. 

Make your next move to Hickory Village and discover affordablllty, convenience nnd comfort. 
We'ro just minutes from Unkersity Park Mc.ll, th~ toll road, Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi · ties program that includes team sports, free c.~robics classes, and mucl1 more. 
Efficiencies from $270 1-Bedrooms from $285 2-Bcdrooms fro:'ll 5345 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Ualcony or Palio Air Conditioning • Close To St.opping 24-hour Emergency fAaintenance Servico Planned Activities with Free A3robics 
Stop by today and we'll show you how affordable apartment living can be, 


-------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, February 18, 1994 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Peace talks to begin, former governor freed 
By LAWRENCE KOOTNIKOFF 
Associated Press 
SAN CRISTOBAL DE LAS 
CASAS, Mexico 
Government and guerrilla negotiators will meet Monday to begin talks to end the peas­ant rebellion in southern Mexico, the government said today. 
Government peace commis­sioner Manuel Camacho Solis said the talks would be in the southern state of Chiapas, but he wouldn't specify where until Sunday for security reasons. 
The announcement followed by less than 24 hours the rebel release of Absalon Castellanos Dominguez, the former gover­nor of the southern state of Chiapas, kidnapped by the rebels Jan. 2, a day after their uprising began. 
The Zapatista National Lib­eration Army attacked and con­trolled several cities Jan. 1 to demand better treatment for Maya Indian peasants in the state plus better economic con­ditions. 
At least 107 people, mostly rebels and civilians, were killed in fighting that ended with a unilateral cease-fire called Jan. 
12 by the government. 
The rebels' release of Castel­lanos was a gesture greeted by Camacho on Wednesday as a "firm step toward peace." It was his first face-to-face en­counter with the rebel Zapatista National Liberation Army. 
Castellanos, 70, returned to his ranch after being held 4 7 days in a remote forest hideout. He has said the rebels did not mistreat him and showed no sign of his ordeal other than a new beard. 
Flanked by four hooded rebels, he walked to freedom along a dirt road in this tiny vil­lage in southern Chiapas where electricity was first introduced last year and telephones don't exist. 
The 300 residents applauded as the rebels shouted "Viva the Zapatista Army!" About 160 journalists were on hand as well as government officials. 
"We have fulfilled our promise," shouted the rebels, carrying automatic weapons and wearing their signature ski masks and red handkerchiefs. 
An unidentified man in civil­ian dress recited a list long of complaints against Castellanos, a retired army general who commanded the Mexican army in Chiapas before serving as governor from 1982-88. Rebels accuse him of stealing Indian land and jailing those who op­posed him. 
Castellanos denied the charges but in a television in­terview broadcast late Tuesday, admitted failing to adequately address social injustices. 
"I hope we will soon see peace and tranquillity in Chia­pas," Castellanos said in a brief statement after being examined by Red Cross workers. 
His release was seen as a condition for peace talks. The government earlier released 38 suspected rebels and was preparing to free 32 others, ac­cording to Mexican news re­ports. 
In what may have been a sim­ilar gesture toward peace, the government announced a huge increase in spending for rural social programs. 
The rebellion began New Year's Day when the previously unknown Zapatistas briefly took over several towns in Chiapas, Mexico's southern­most state, to protest mistreat­ment and oppression of Indian 

hristmas in April 
Join together with seven of your friends to participate in Christmas in April {CIA). 
CIA is a one day working session during which the South Bend community will join forces with the students, faculty; and staff of Notre Dame and St. Mary•s to renovate and repair the homes of the needy, elderly, and handicapped residents of aSouth Bend neighborhood. 
SIGN UP Tuesday, February 22"d and Wednesday, February 23rd. 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the Library Concourse 
LIMITED SPOTS AVAILABLE 

peasants, most of whom live in poverty. 
The fighting died down two weeks later after the govern­ment declared a unilateral cease-fire. 
Castellanos, said by the rebels to be their only hostage, was kidnapped from his ranch. He planned to spend the night in his home before taking a mili­tary flight today from the Chia­pas capital of Tuxtla Gutierrez to Mexico City. It was not immediately known if Castellanos would meet with President Carlos Salinas de Gortari. 
In late January, the rebels said Castellanos had been sen­tenced to death but that they commuted the sentence to life of hard labor at an indigenous community to atone for his sins against Indians. 
A majority of the 3.2 million Chiapas residents are Indians, many of whom speak no Span­ish and live in tiny farm plots without running water or elec­tricity. Hospitals and schools are scarce. The Zapatistas say Indians are dying of curable diseases. 
Muico  $1H  
Costa Rica  $175  
Guatemala  $165  
Panama City  $165  
Rio de Janeiro  $515  

Fares are each way based on a roundtrip pur­chase from Chicago. Taxes not included and restrictions apply. Call for other worldwide destinations. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311·951·0585 

Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels magazine 
Friday, February 18, 1994 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
page 10 
Chinese jetliner hijacked to Proposal called 'utter hypocrisy' 
"We are committed to partic­latures. The ANC wanted a sin­
By DONNA BRYSON 

gle ballot, with the votes apply­
Taiwan with 128 on board ipating in the election -pro­
Associated Press 

vided that they walk that extra ing to both assemblies. mile," Buthelezi told state tele­A single ballot would have
jacked plane to Taiwan. JOHANNESBURG
By PATRICIA KUO virtually assured the huge ANC
vision.
No further details were im­A leading Zulu nationalist 
a majority of seats in both the
Associated Press Conservative whites and
mediately available. ridiculed the latest peace offer­blacks. grouped in the Freedom national and provincial legisla­The epidemic of air piracy ing from the ANC as a ploy
TAIPEI. Taiwan tures. Two ballots would give
Alliance, fear the ANC will winhas bedeviled attempts by Thursday, bolstering fears that
A Chinese jetliner with 128 small, regionally based parties
the election and impose a
China and Taiwan in their political unrest may undermine
people on board was hijacked socialist dictatorship that will -such as Inkatha in the
efforts toward detente. The two South Africa's historic election
to Taiwan Friday, the govern­trample minority rights. They KwaZulu black homeland -a
do not recognize each other, in April. 
ment-run Broadcasting Corpo­want sovereign or independent chance to establish power
and China regards Taiwan as a Mangosuthu Buthelezi, leader 
ration of China reported. territories where they can gov­bases in their areas of support. 
renegade province. of the Inkatha Freedom Party,
The hijacking was the first ern themselves and maintain Mandela also said the ANC
The two sides have booming said the ANC's characterization
this year and the 11th since last privileges enjoyed under approved amending the new
trade and travel links, and have of new political proposals as a
April. All the previous hijack­constitution to allow considera­
apartheid.
been holding talks to try to compromise was "utter
ings ended peacefully, with the Alliance leaders were ex­tion of a white homeland after 
overcome differences. hypocrisy."
hijackers remaining in Taiwan White conservatives who also pected to meet soon to discuss the election. He did not give 
for trial and the planes, crew the proposals announced details, but said the ANC sup­
The talks have bogged down are threatening to boycott the
and passengers being returned Wednesday by ANC leader Nel­ported having the current Par­
over a number of issues, first all-race election April 26­liament change the new consti­
to China. son Mandela.
including jurisdiction over 28 also reacted coolly. 
BCC said the Boeing 737 be­Mandela said at a news con­tution to incorporate such a
hijackers. China wants them But Buthelezi held out hope
longing to China's domestic ference his group had dropped clause.
returned immediately for trial. of an eventual agreement with
Southwest Airlines landed at its demand for a single-ballot Both the government and the
but Taiwan has insisted that the African National Congress
Taipei's international airport at system in the April vote. ANC have firmly opposed set­
each case be judged individual­and President F.W. de Klerk's
10:42 a.m. (9:42 p.m. Thursday The Alliance has demanded ting up territories along racial 
ly. white-minority government, 
lines, and it was unclear if
EST). that voters cast two ballots ­
Taiwan also wants China to which led talks on ending
Officials said the Taiwan Air Mandela's statement indicated
one for a national Parliamentacknowledge the right of reli­apartheid and allowing the
Force scrambled two F-5E and another for regional legis-a significant shift in policy. 
gious and political asylum. black majority to vote. 
fighter jets to escort the hi-
Kennedy to attend murder appeal 

ter an appellate court reversed
By MARCY GORDON 
their convictions because the
Associated Press 
government admitted that po­lice had altered evidence. 
WASHINGTON Their story is the subject of a Rep. Joseph P. Kennedy II new movie, "In the Name of the plans to attend the murder ap­peal hearing of his brother-in­Father." law, Paul Hill, in Northern Ire­Hill has been free on bail
land next week, a Kennedy 
while appealing his convictionspokeswoman said Thursday. 
in the murder of former BritishHill was one of the Guildford soldier Brian Shaw in Belfast in Four who were convicted and 1974. Hill confessed to helpingspent 16 years in prison for the kidnap the soldier, who was ex­
1974 bombings of pubs in 
ecuted by the Irish RepublicanGuildford and Woolwich, Eng­Army, but said he made theland. Hill and his three co-de­
confession under duress.
fendants were freed in 1989 af-
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paia positions: 
Advertising Design Personnel 
Applicants ~hould have a strong interest in graphic design or com~erct~ art; a knowledge ofMacintosh graphics soft­ware, mcludmg Aldus FreeHand and QuarkXPress, is help­ful but not absolutely required. Applicants should submit a resume and ~-2 page personal statement to Ryan Malayter by 5 p.m. Fnday, February 18, 1994. For additional infor­mation, please contact Ryan at 634-2031. 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,CXXJ Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
OutDf.Print Search Service -$2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to aiJr Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
MontegoBay lrom$449 Negrll lrom$479 Cancun ltO/I\$469 
'D.,•rNrw frol'll lncllanapDib., Chkotolll 'OMr pOIIVIIIr cl-attono lnclv.!o 
,__Clly A OayttNIIII ...ell, florlckl 
•Call for m.... lnfo>ntM~tlonln 


His appeal hearing is sched­uled to begin next Wednesday in Belfast. 
Kennedy spokeswoman Nancy Mathis said the Mas­sachusetts Democrat would at­tend the hearing privately as a family member. She declined further comment. 
Hill married Mary Courtney Kennedy, daughter of the late Sen. Robert F. Kennedy and sis­ter of Rep. Kennedy, last June. 
Mrs. Hill's aunt, Jean 
Kennedy Smith, is the U.S. am­
bassador to Ireland. 

Pre-Law Meeting
Guest Speaker: 
Dean Link 
from the Notre Dame Law School 
Topic: 

''The~ Future of the Law Profession'' 

Friday, February 18, 1994 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

MENS

Quantity in Stock 
1079 SUITS ...................................... values to $650 .............................. $129 to $289 320 SPORT COATS ....................... values to $295 .............................. $59 to $129 610 DRESS SHIRTS ....................... values to $85 ................................ $19 to $39 251 SHOES .................................... values to $165 .............................. $34 to $79 860 TIES ......................................... values to $55 ................................ $14 ea. or 2 for $25 547 SPORT SHIRTS ...................... values to $89.50 ........................... $19 to $39 194 SWEATERS ............................. values to $195 .............................. $19 to $89 451 PANTS ..................................... values to $125 .............................. $19 to $59 
79 TOPCOATS ............................ values to $595 .............................. $149 to $299 
===========LADIES ============ 
219 SUITS & SPORT COATS ....... values to $325 .............................. $99 to $159 189 SKIRTS .................................... values to $235 .............................. $39 to $99 278 SWEATERS ............................. values to $165 .............................. $29 to $79 132 PANTS ..................................... values to $97.50 ........................... $24 to $39 
Special hours: THURSDAY 8 A.M. TO 9 P.M. FRIDAY 8 A.M. TO 9 'P.M. SATURDAY 10 A.M. TO 9 P.M. SALE STARTS THURSDAY AT 8 A.M. (CLOSED WEDNESDAY TO PREPARE FOR THE SALE)  
ALL SALES FINAL NO ALTERATIONS  

MANY OTHER SALE ITEMS NOT LISTED 
Cash, check or bank card ' sales only. Sorry, no Redwood & Ross charges, gift certificates, due bills or layaways. 
FINAL MARKDOWNS HAVE BEEN TAKEN. WE HAVE GATHERED THE FALL AND WINTER MERCHANDISE FROM ALL 17 STORES FOR ONE FINAL CLEARANCE. PRICES HAVE BEEN SLASHED 50% OR MORE! ALL ITEMS ARE BELOW COST! BECAUSE THESE ITEMS ARE FROM BROKEN LOTS, SIZES AND PATTERNS, WE MUST CLEAR THEM REGARDLESS OF LOSS. IF YOU CAN FIND SOMETHING IN YOUR SIZE, WE'LL SEND YOU HOME SAVING A BUNDLE! 
\,1, ·~· 
Sl~ 

JteAwooAi Jtoss 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
272-0470 

BUSINESS 
page 12 Friday, February 18, 1994 
The Inn at Saint Mary's thrives on its location 
Marketing strategies: Discounts available for the faculty and students 
Utilizes advantageous location 
68% of clients are business travelers 
"The relationship between the college and the hotel is a beautiful marriage" 
-Judy Chick General Manager 

By LYNN BAUWENS 
Business Writer 
"They're our best employ­
Business Profile 

ees," said Chick. "They are ready and willing to learn." 
The Inn cooperates with stu­dent employees and even devel­oped a four hour shift to accommodate them. "We're very compatible with student's schedules," she said. 
While this time of year is usu­ally not busy for hotels in the area, the Inn has found ways to increase business. They offer a frequent stay program for busi­nesses and individuals and pro­vide special discounts for facul­ty and students. 
"Traditionally, hotel business is slow in December, January and February throughout the city," Chick said. "Not that many people are interested in 
The Observer/ Scott Mendenhall visiting South Bend this time of 
The Inn at Saint Mary's has become a high-quality hotel attracting both 
year." business and campus related travelers. Despite the many hotels in 
the area competing for busi­memorabilia," said Chick. "South Bend is geared 
ness, they work together to 
While there is a significant towards the convention busi­
meet the needs of clients. 
amount of business from the ness," according to Chick. The according to Chick. When one 
Business travelers find a 
home away from the office at 
the Inn at Saint Mary's. 
The Inn opened in April, 1992, and since has enjoyed a busy success. The hotel, locat­ed on Saint Mary's College campus, is a for-profit partner­ship managed by the Lodging Host Hotel Corporation and "bwned jointly by the Sisters of the Holy Cross and the Holiday Corporation, according to 
General Manager Judy Chick. 
"It is still campus land that is 
leased and will never be sold," 
said Chick. "We're very happy 
with the success we've had. We 
owe a lot of it to location." 
While being located at Saint 
Mary's College and adjacent to 
the University of Notre Dame 
has been key to its success, at 
first it was difficult to inform 
the public that the hotel was 
not limited to those affiliated 
tiful marriage." with the campuses. The Inn has 120 luxury campuses and special events Inn focuses upon meeting the hotel overbooks or has vacan­
"Morris Inn suffers the same rooms and suites, including such as the upcoming Junior needs of the business traveler cies, they contact one another. problem with location being so three rooms with Jacuzzis. Moms' Weekend at Saint by keeping up with current "We're a very tight-knit com­closely associated with the While there is not a restaurant Mary's, the majority of clients technology. munity," she said. "We work University of Notre Dame," on the premises, there is a are business travelers. "We'll be installing voice mail cooperatively with other 
according to Chick. To correct lounge and a gift and sundry The Inn caters to these corpo­in all the rooms," said Chick. hotels." 
the misconception, the Inn shop. rate travelers who account for "We'll be the only hotel in 
While the Inn still has room increased consumer awareness The hotel does not focus 68 percent of the business South Bend that offers this ser­available this spring, they are 
through direct advertising to upon family vacation business. year-round. They offer compli­vice." no vacancies for commence­business travelers and added It does not have a pool or other mentary services in the 24-hour The Inn has several Saint ment weekend. "We have dedi­the phrase 'Open to the Public' entertainment for children, Business Center including a Mary's and Notre Dame stu­cated the majority of the hotel to area billboards. however, it does cater to the copy machine, fax machine, dents on staff. While she noted including a huge block of rooms 
Despite the initial problems, tourists who visit South Bend to personal computer and type­that there is a turnover of grad­to Saint Mary's for housing the . 
see the campus of Notre Dame. writer. In addition, each guest uating students each year,
Chick said the relationship various YIP's and dignitaries 
between the College and the "We stock the gift shop with room is equipped with modem Chick believes it is worth the who will be in town for the hotel has proven to be a "beau-Saint Mary's and Notre Dame ports. effort to hire students. Sesquicentennial," said Chick. 
By DAVID THURBER 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 
Under the threat of U.S. sanctions, the government de­cided Thursday to develop a wide-ranging package of mea­sures to trim Japan's record trade surplus and possibly head off a trade war. 
Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa and top trade nego­tiators agreed to focus on four areas: promotion of imports and foreign investment, dereg­ulation, tougher anti-monopoly enforcement, and fairer gov­ernment purchasing. 
The decision reflects growing anxiety in Japan over U.S. threats of trade retaliation fol­lowing a breakdown in talks in Washington last week on re­ducing the two countries' trade imbalance. 
"The ball is in Japan's court," said the chief govern­ment spokesman, Masayoshi Takemura. 
He said the government needs to plan the package 
US-Japan trade war fears spark action on both sides 
Competition requires attention to value 
and price. The goal of this pro­cess is to provide consumers with the best overall product at the best value. Milligan used the example of Bounty paper towels to illustrate Proctor and Gamble's success in this area. 
The second strategy for suc­ceeding in the nineties is to drive out all costs which do not add value to a product. For ex­ample, the current goal of the product supply department of Proctor and Gamble is to keep product costs flat for the next three years. 
This process involves an effort to increase both 'efficien­cy and reliability within the company. Milligan explained Proctor and Gamble's recent restructuring (which will elimi­nate 13,000 jobs) as part of this attempt to create a "leaner, faster, more flexible organiza­tion". 
Though these first two tips are important, Milligan also stressed that "the ability to win isn't based on prices alone." Rather, the most crucial ele­ment of value "is the perfor­mance and quality of products." This aspect makes value strat­egy number three-adding value through innovation-im­carefully because it will "lead to a change in style and struc­ture of the entire Japanese economy." 
On Thursday, the United States announced that the trade deficit with Japan shot up nearly 24 percent last year to a record $59.3 billion, surpassing the $56.3 billion set in 1987. 
The four areas in the new trade package reflect key U.S. complaints. But the package is unlikely to solve the key issue that caused last week's dead­lock: a U.S. demand for numer­ical benchmarks to measure the success of trade agree­ments. 
Japan contends specific goals would require too much inter­ference in business decisions. 
Takemura said the new package might be worked out before a meeting of finance of­ficials from the Group of Seven richest industrial nations on Feb. 26. Japan may send an emissary to Washington to ex­plain the package once it is ready, he said. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 

By SUSAN McCABE 
Business Writer 
Focusing on the ways in which a company must adapt in order to sueceed in the new value-oriented global economy, Mike Milligan, senior vice presi­dent of Proctor and Gamble, claimed that "value has become the buzzword of the 1990's." 
Milligan, the company's worldwide sales director, cited the growing popularity of items such as fast-food value meals and no-frills credit cards as proof that today's consumers are no longer willing to pay the premium prices name-brand products often demand. He stressed Proctor and Gamble's commitment to move into this value conscious age wP,ile con­tinuing .to uphold its main pur­pose. This purpose is to "pro­vide produets of superior goods and value that best fill the needs of the world's con­sumers," said Milligan. 
Milligan presented three stMtegies for increasing con­sumer val'ue without falling behind in the increasingly com­petitive market. 
The first strategy involves 
balancing product performance 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
portant. 

This strategy involves im­proving value as well as adding value to products at no addi­tional increase in price. Milli­gan cited products such as Cheer with ColorGuard and cal­cium-fortified Hawaiian Punch as recent examples of improved Proctor and Gamble products. 
Finally, Milligan stressed the importance of effective market­ing techniques as a key to suc­ceeding in the nineties. "Value is a marketing concept as well as a price performing concept," he stated. According to Milli­gan, keys to successful market­ing include extensive consumer research as well as continued expansion in the widening glob­al market. 
"We have embarked on a new age of value consciousness," Milligan said, reiterating the need for a company to remain committed to its goals while making sure that consumers are able say that a product is "not just a good value, it's a bargain." 
Milligan's lecture entitled "Winning in the Value Con­scious Nineties" was presented Tuesday evening at the Center for Continuing Education. 
WASHINGTON 
The U.S. trade deficit surged to $115.78 billion last year, the worst showing in five years, as the deficit with Japan climbed to its highest level in history. The Commerce Department said that the U.S. trade imbal­ance jumped! 37 percent from the 1992 level of $84.5 billion. Both exports and imports hit record highs last year, but imports grew twice as fast as exports. 
J... , 1. •••.: 

FRANKLIN, Ind. 
Arvin Industries wants to sig­nal stability by opening contract negotiations more than six months before the current pact expires. 
Negotiations usually begin about six weeks before a con­tract expires. However, Arvin wanted to assure its customers -including Chrysler, Ford and General Motors -that it has a stable labor pool. 
·~:· ··:··~~· 

. . 
, .... 
-~·--~·~~~------------~~-~---·--··64~·····-·· 
WASHINGTON 
Consumer prices unexpect­edly held steady in January, the first month that costs did not rise in more than four years, the government said today. 
The Labor Department said the last time its Consumer Price Index did not budge from the previous month was in August 1989. The last decline occurred during the months of February, March and April 1986. 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, February 18, 1994 page 13 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre D.ame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Bwiness Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institUtion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 63!-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EdirorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame 'imprint': Foundation to life's decisions 
Dear Editor:  students awoke to find your­ in place. The student one-on­ out on a most magnificent stage  a young woman confided that  
We never had a lot of money  selves standing in the middle of  one meetings that evening flew  represents our stewardship of  though she was very pleased  
growing up ... But my parents  a barren Indiana field. The  bye and continued to support  this gift called Notre Dame.  with the selection of her major  
always said we kids were going  question.  Would Notre Dame  the conclusion. After all weren't  If so, is that not further affir­ and was doing very well in her  
to  have  a  college  educa­ still exist?  these one of those structured  mation that it is the parents  course work, each day she was  
tion...Then, when I was ac­cepted at Notre Dame, that was like the biggest thing in their  In the over ten times I have used this question, the answer comes fast and is always the  challenges that contributed to the transition of the freshman "taker" to the senior "giver"?  that history must accord the mantle of providing the key ingredient to the greatness  becoming more attracted to the role of wife and mother that (you guessed it) her mother had  
lives.  same. Yes, Notre Dame would  Things were really starting to  achieved here.  played in her family's life.  
With faces alive with love and  exist because Notre Dame is not  fit together and I felt terrific. It  In each of the 600 plus stu­ Adding a sense of order, pri­ 
admiration, this was just one of  resident in the structures or the  wasn't until I laid down in one  dent one-on-one's I have partic­ ority, empowerment from their  
the many stories that had intro­ practices of this University but  of those beds at the Morris Inn  ipated in there would always be  family experiences, however,  
duced me to the Notre Dame  rather really found in the stu­ where the window frames the  at least one moment where the  usually manifested itself in less  
parent; someone I have come to  dent... more specifically in the  Dome against the night sky and  depth of this family presence  dramatic ways. Observations on  
appreciate as truly at the cen­ter of Notre Dame's greatness.  way student to student relation­ships challenge, support, nego­ stared up at this golden image, searching for affirmation, that  expressed itself. Not surprising was that the students were  concern, dedication, effort, un­derstanding, patience, care,  
After nearly ten years of com­ tiate, threaten and love a tran­ my well-intentioned conclusions  looking to copy that vision in  hope and love were only to be­ 
ing out each semester to lecture and mentor students one-on­ sition that takes a freshman wbo must receive to survive to  began to unravel. Rather that finding the peace of an exhaust­ their own lives. One of the most beautiful  gin the list of razor sharp im­prints students carried as fam­ 
one, I was still searching for  the able senior who must give  ing and fruitful day, the other  came  a  few  semesters  ago  ily-based tools that were form­ 
words to respond to student  to be fulfilled.  shoe dropped.  when a business major confided  ing the foundation for their life  
questions about how the Notre  Now I finally had it. It was the  Most of the students I had  that each day she had a grow­ decisions.  
Dame imprint was going to affect the rest of their lives.  way we structured the academ­ic and social challenges over  been reaching had generally been there just a little over one  ing sense that her place was to return to the native American  About this time I couldn't help but stop and think about  
At first, I thought what a  these four years that enabled  year. They were still getting  village of her grandparents to  those pre-teen pictures dotting  
strange question. Wasn't it ob­ the interrelationship between  their feet wet, but their actions  help that community build a  The  Observer  birthday  
vious? Look around. What a  the students to  create this  and answers reflected an un­ better life. It had been only the  vignettes that had become such  
fantastic campus! What an out­ indelible imprint. What a great  derstanding of what we called  previous semester that a lad  a daily part of this newspaper.  
standing faculty and adminis­ answer.  Notre Dame that seemed to  had made a similar commit­ Maybe they were doing more  
tration! Or look back to a histo­ Immediately, one of the out­ represent four years of experi­ ment to his family's village on  than celebrating the durability  
ry of greatness .... Fr. Sorin, Fr.  standing columns to appear in  ence. How could that be?  the Mexican border.  of this family love. Maybe they  
Hesburgh,  Rockne,  Fr.  The Observer came to mind.  Only one answer seemed to  Then, it was to share the  also served to rechallenge those  
Nieuwland, Frank O'Malley! Wasn't it all quite obvious? But, the more I thought, what  The writer related that as a freshman his roommate had re­turned home and how he felt  remain. They had brought this greatness with them. Could it be that that which we call Notre  beauty of a student who feared that he would miss being able to pass on the cohesiveness that  blessed with student care with the depth of parental challenge to and belief in this Notre  
became obvious was that while  lost until a group of juniors took  Dame is a reflection of those  had been shared by a family of  Dame.  
these current and historical  him under their wing. As this  qualities that had been taught,  modest means who had taken  
views might set the stage for  friendship grew so did his com­ disciplined, praised, scolded  the time to understand and cel­ This article was originally  
this generation's Notre Dame, they would only be part of the  fort and happiness. Now,. however, it was the end  and loved into these young men and women lon·g before we had  ebrate the empowerment of ac­quiring their first car, first  published in the Junior Parents Weekend preview issue.  
answer.  of his sophomore year and  ever met them?  house and of course sending  
The next insight came in class from the students. I posed the question this way: "Suppose  these friends were about to graduate. Joy again turned to pain as he faced another loss,  And that which we call Notre Dame in simplest terms is a process by which we exercise,  the frrst offspring for a college education. The reason.... he had just  Richard J. Huether is an in­ternational author, lecturer and consultant, having served  
you get up tomorrow morning  until he realized that maybe  enrich and hopefully celebrate  signed an employment contract  36 years as an executive on  
and discover all the buildings  now it was his turn to reach out  these qualities in a very special  that would put enough money  GE's corporate marketing staff.  
and facilities are gone ... some­ to wipe out another's loneliness  way. And, that our ability to  in his pocket to compress a life­ He is also a Distinguished  
how disappeared. The resi­ with his friendship.  draw students together that are  time of goals into an instant.  Lecturer and mentor at the  
dence halls, buildings that held  Wasn't this what we were all  best able to learn from one an­ How was he to preserve and  University of Notre Dame, his  
your classes, the church where  about? Didn't this prove the  other and to surround them  recreate the memories and cul­ alma mater, addressing gradu­ 
you prayed; even such revered  conclusion?  with challenge and support that  ture he cherished for his fami­ ate and undergraduate courses  
symbols as the Dome had va­ What  a  great  answer.  ignites the magic of these in­ ly?  in both marketing and manage­ 
porized. You and all your fellow  Everything seemed to be fitting  fused dreams, and plays them  It was just last semester when  ment.  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  


''I'mnot afraid to die, I just 
don't want to be there when it happens." 
--Woody Allen 


friday 
events 
"Strictly Ballroom," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., $2. "The Three Musketeers," Cushing, 7:30 and 10:30 p.m., $2. Expo-Roma, Architecture Building main lobby, 9 a.m. 
to 10 p.m., all are welcome. JPW Gala, 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., J.A.C.C. Comedy Cafe, featuring Martin Fink and Michael 
Wilson, 9 to 11 p.m., Haggar Parlor (SMC}, $2. Nd Women's Tennis vs. Miami (Fl}, 4 p.m., Eck Pavilion. 
music 
Future Band , Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9:30 p.m. 
saturday 
events 
"Strictly Ballroom," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., $2. "The Three Musketeers," Cushing, 7:30 and 10:30 p.m., $2. Expo-Roma, Architecture Building main lobby, 9 a.m. to 10 p.m., all are welcome. Nd Women's Tennis vs. Kentucky, 11 a.m., Eck Pavilion. ND Men's and Women's Indoor Track vs. Drake, 12:30 
p.m. Loftus Center. 
JPW Director's Dinner, 7 to 10 p.m., North Dome J.A.C.C. 

Future Band, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9:30 p.m. 
sunday 
events 
Bach Organ Fest, Craig Cramer, 8 p.m., Sacred Heart, Free admission. Misa en Espanol, 11:30 a.m., Breen Phillips Hall Chapel, Padre Richard Warner. JPW Farewell Brunch, 9:30 a.m. to 12 p.m., J.A.C.C. 
movies 
University Park East 
Schindler's List 8:15 In the Name of the Father 7, 9:45 Grumpy Old Men 7:30,9:40 My Father the Hero 7:10, 9:20 Philadelphia 7, 9:45 
University Park West 
I'll Do Anything 7, 9:40 Ace Ventura Pet Detective 7:30, 9:30 The Getaway 7:15, 9:50 
& all the eV8nts that go with it 
e . .· le p orins hi · he Sn ·-Annenberg Auditorium with sp ...· _ __ . _. guestTroop ND~ . · 
_. " -· · • ·.·.•.. _:~· . · 2 p.m. to ~:~0 p.m.-The Arts and ~m. t ,. p.m.-T:Pe Hospitality_ Let~e~s/ ?clence, Honors Progr 

· u ......._ loca d m the Dooley_ Room on . the first floor LaFortune, offers infor­mation, m_a_ps. coffee, and the JPW 
gl!est bf:!ok. _. ~ 
• .-,Class~c ·1\iQtre Dame films shown in the roam TV lounge ·or LaFortune: 
Wake Up the_ Echoes, Knute Rockne All American. Lou Holtz: Do it Right! and 
This Is ND. ' 

•• p.m.-A;;,C~IDJ?US tour leaves from 
Dooley Room m LaFortune. •j,"" 
p.m.-Blak Ko_fee House, a varietysponsored by the Office of ority Student Affairs in the 
Ballroom. ,..:. .m. toil a.m.-Op~ning e\T~ts with the Night at the Oscars Gala 
J.A.C.C. DW:iJ?-g the evening yousample exqms1te food and cock-inspired by the wonderful word of 
There'is a cash bar and dance 
Saturday 

If 1J 30 a.in:f:'to 12 P•l!l·· Collegia~e
kshops offered to mtroduce your parents to the programs and profes­
sors of the four colleges.11 a.~; to_4 p.m.-The Hospitality 
--~.oom ~s·agau1 open for your conve• mence m tlie Dooley Room. Classic ND rllms continue in the main lounge of 
LaFortune. 


1 a.m. and 12 p.m.· Tours of the 
. .
.. Museuiil of Art be8Jll. . .~, . 
~an spo~~~~e~0 ~~~~~e~:~~o~~~~~~: 
•juniors have a luncheon at the semor/
' Alumni Club. . ····· · 
p.m. l;l.llcl 2:39 p~m.t Shenanigans, ~r~ Dame'~ stngmg and dancing rece~on m 210 0 Shaugnessy. 
2 p.m. to 4 p.m.-The Office Minon__ .ty Student Affi_airs open house 207 LaFortune. All are welcome.. 
. . .•}'he London yrogram reumon all -f.Qndoner~-.:.~m the LaFor Ballroom. ~ 
2:30 p.m.-The Notre Dame Jazz 
Band performance in Washington Hall ·. .3 _P.~,YJ·· A cam~ms tour leaves fro_m.
the Dooley Room m LaFortune . _· · 
2:30 p._m. to_ 4:30p.m.... The Centet_i for. Social Concerns open house. Jum!>rs wh!> have participated in social serVIce proJects may attend. 
• Th~. International Studies Pro 
rec~ption in the Notre. Dame Room Jumors who have studied ~broa~. 
• ND .R.O.T.C. receptwns m the 
Pasquenlla Center. 3 p.m. to 4 p.m.-Th_e· Theology
Department reception for Junior Theology majors in the Library Lounge.
5:30 p.m.-Mass: University President Father Edward Malloy, will preside at 
the celebration in the south dome of the J.A.C.C. 
7 p.m. to 10 p.m.-Director Dinner follows mass in the North Dome of the 
J.A.C,C. Highlights include a ................... mance by the~~ND Glee Club and speech b~ Father Malloy. 
Sunday . . · ._ · 
';~ti~~ll~fm!~~(abf~~;;n~~!i~~ to 
JPW .1994. Held in the J.A.C.C. head 
football Coach Lou Holtz is a featured and . is also a slide show 
Friday, February 18, 1994 The Observer • ETC. page 1 5 
lclass of '95 awaits parents and JPW memories 
_-( 

y LARISSA HERCZEG ccent Wrirer 
Swarms of parents are invading campus this week­nd. But it is not graduation and there are no football ames. This mass migration of parents is due to the rrival of Junior Parents Weekend. 
For the Class of 1995, this momentous weekend has inally arrived thanks to the dedication and hard work 1f many different organizations. 
Central to all the planning is the Executive :ommittee, headed by Farley Hall junior Christina tulinazzi. 
Mulinazzi, assisted by 15 other board members have 1ent the last fifteen months fmalizing the plans. Working with the board has been a highlight of the st eleven months, according to Mulinazzi. "The last 389 days have been an incredible time mmitment. However, one of the rewards is meeting td working with lots of nice people within the univer­;y," she said. Last year's JPW chairperson, Laurie Neimann illus­ll.tes the endless hours of dedication required to make e weekend a success. 
"The most challenging part is that being chairperson a 24 hour a day job. My phone would start ringing 
•ery morning at 7:30 a.m," she said. All this devotion amply rewarded when the weekend finally arrives. Friday evening the festivities begin with the Gala in 
1e J.A.C.C. Essentially the Gala is an elaborate formal event complete with food, cocktails and dance floor for par­ents and students. The gala lasts from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., and live music will keep everybody hopping while Food Services caters the delicasies 
Complementing the "Lights, Camera, Action," theme, Food Services put their creativity to the test to design ten different booths serving a variety of foods. 
The end result-students and parents will be able to feast at the Casablanca booth featuring Moroccan food, or satiate their sweet tooth at the Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory table. 
Come Saturday, juniors may show their parents around campus or hope to run into a few professors during the collegiate workshopeps and open houses. Several programs will highlight each college and break down into discussions of a few majors. 
After working up an appetite in the classroom, juniors will bond with their fellow dorm mates during the residence hall sponsored luncheons. 
The rest of the day, the parents get a break, with the opportunity to tour the campus, listen to the music of the Glee Club, or they can even nap. 
Festivities reconvene at 5:30 p.m. as Father Malloy will preside over Mass in the J.A.C.C. Mass is followed by "The Director's Dinner," which will feature speech­es by Father Edward Malloy, and the Junior Class President, Bryan Corbett. 
Finally, the weekend draws to a close with Sunday brunch at 9:30 a.m.. Parents are treated to a final meal, as Coach Lou Host provides final words of wis­dom before their departure. 
The price of the weekend, when considering four' meals and entertainment, is a surprisingly low $160 for both parents and the student tickets. 

JPW is such a special because it is a uniquely Notre Dame experience, "No other school has something like it. Large state schools are just too big, and the smaller schools do not have enough people," added Mulinazzi. 
Looking back, Neimann has a slightly different per­spective, on JPW "Students finally get to become friends with their parents. Parents are introduced to the life as their children, but from the perspective of friendship." 
"It is neat to see sixteen students work hard and be rewarded with a great weekend. Lots of groups come together and cooperate to make the whole event." added Gayle Spencer student government advisor. 
Dennis Koehler emphasized that JPW is a huge responsibility for Food Services, as they are expected to cater all the meals for approximately 4,000 people, and operate the South and North Dining Halls with some semblance of sanity. 
The hardest part is from Saturday night to Sunday morning," claims Koehler. 
"It is a challenge to time everything right and fit everything together, for example preparing the food at precisely the right moment, but it is also fun. However, we're also glad when its over and people go away pleased," he said. 
Everything is ready for this weekend. Now, students just need to be sure they've picked up their tickets, and get ready for an amazing weekend, filled with "Lights, camera, action." 

Students flee NO while iuniors entertain parents 
rTANYA KRYWARUCZENKO sistant Accent Editor 
The weekend has finally arrived. In a w short hours, the campus will be eked with thousands of Notre Dame 1iors and their parents. Meanwhile, th campus activities catering to the nior class, what do all the other stu­nts do? \ popular spot for students to travel to 
s weekend is Chicago. The freshman ss council is sponsoring a JPW escape 
o to Chicago, said Andrea Smith, ;hman class council secretary. tudents will stay at the Days Inn, ch is close to many different stores. he only planned event for the trip is a ond City show on Saturday evening, erwise, everyone is on their own, ording to Smith. ~ost people want to look around cago and go shopping at Water ver Place," Smith said. "Other people .want to hang out." he freshman JPW escape sold out by 
end of the first day, selling all 146 ts available. he sophomore class council is also nsoring a JPW escape weekend to cago. For approximately $58, sopho­res are provided with hotel accom­:lations, transportation and a ticket tither the "Phantom of the Opera" or ond City, said Oanh Vo, sophomore is chairperson. 
o is also excited about this weekend. think we're going to have a good time is year." 'he only planned event is the turday evening show, said Vo. 
wrwise, "people are free to roam mnd wherever they want to go and y really go all over the place." he popular spots to visit are the er Planetarium, Hard Rock Cafe, Ed bevic's and Gino's East. "Planet lywood's will probably also be a pop­ular place to visit this year since it just opened," Vo said. 
There are still spots open for the trip. Although all of the "Phantom" tickets for the trip are sold out, there are Second City tickets available. 
Students are also going on their own to Chicago. Michelle Mudry, Howard Hall sophomore, will travel h,ome with a friend this weekend to Wheaton, a sub­urb of Chicago. 
"We're going to have a home cooked· meal and tour Chicago," said Mudry. She said they plan to eat at Gino's East and see a show at Second City. 
"Last year I stayed on campus and I was so bored because the campus was so dead," added Mudry. "JPW is a good time to leave capmus for a real meal or just a guideed tour of Chicago." 
Grace sophomore Panchi Hoar and one of his friends will travel to Indiana University this weekend. "We're going to visit a friend of mine from high school who goes to IV and just stay around on [the IV] campus," he said. 
Hoar also said that the IU-Purdue bas­ketball game is this weekend. "It should be a good game and hopefully we'll get tickets for it," said Hoar. 
Siegfried sophomore roommates Rachel Stehle and Danielle Fresch may both go to their homes in Sandusky, Ohio this weekend. 
"Last year all of the upperclassmen told me that it would be in my best interests to leave campus because noth­ing would be going on," said Stehle. 
Fresch also went home last JPW to visit friends. While at home she also saw her high school basketball team play. 
"I think JPW is a good chance to go home since nothing is going on," said Fresch. "And, parietals are at midnight this weekend." 
"I'm staying here this weekend and studying for my four midterms next week," said Nicole Najarian, sophomore. 
"I think I'll get a lot done because there won't be much going on around campus to distract me." 
Fresch also went home last JPW to visit friends. While at home she also saw her high school basketball team play. 
"I think JPW is a good chance to go home since nothing is going on," said Fresch. "And, parietals are at midnight this weekend." 
''I'm staying here this weekend and studying for my four midterms next week," said Nicole Najarian, sophomore. "I think I'll get a lot done because there won't be much going on around campus to distract me." 
So, while juniors are entertaining their parents the underclassmen will just have to entertain themselves, until it's rgeir turn. 
"We're going to have a home cooked meal and tour Chicago," said Mudry. She said they plan to eat at Gino's East and see a show at Second City. 
Grace sophomore Panchi Hoar and one of his friends will travel to Indiana University this 

weekend. "We're going to visit a friend of mine from high school who goes to IV and just stay around on [the 
IV] campus," he said. 
Hoar also said that the IU-Purdue bas­ketball game is this weekend. "It should be a good game and hopefully we'll get tickets for it," said Hoar. 
Siegfried 

sophomore roommates Rachel Stehle and Danielle Fresch may both go to their homes in Sandusky, Ohio this weekend. 
"Last year all of the upperclassmen told me that it would be in my best interests to leave campus because noth­ing would be going on," said Stehle. 
Fresch also went home last JPW to visit friends. While at home she also saw her high school basketball team play. 
"I think JPW is a good chance to go home since nothing is going on," said Fresch. "And, parietals are at midnight this weekend." 
''I'm staying here this weekend and studying for my four midterms next week," said Nicole Najarian, sophomore. "I think I'll get a lot done because there won't be much going on around campus to distract me." 
So, while juniors are entertaining their parents the underclassmen will just have to entertain themselves, until it's their turn. 
page 16 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, February 18, 1994 
Jesus loves all of His little sunbeams 
"Does Jesus want us as His 
fabric "the Shadowlands." I myself have no Narnian sunbeams?" the children asked Asian says: "The term is over; tales to tell the children, but me after night prayers. We had the holidays have begun. The sometimes I get their attention been singing, "Jesus loves Father Robert Griffin dream is ended; this is the with an Irish poem. "In ancient me/fhis I know/For the Bible morning." For us, the author shadows and twilights/ Where tells me so," and "Jesus loves Bellers lo a Bonefj 9od says, "this is the end of all sto­childhood had strayed,/ The the little children/All the chil­ries... But for them it was only world's great sorrows were dren of the world/Red and yel­the beginning of the real born/ And its heroes were low, black and white/They are story... Now at last they were made./ In the lost boyhood of precious in His sight./Jesus beginning Chapter One of the Judas! Christ was betrayed."
not like the People Living With 
loves the little children of the Great Story which no one on
When the thildren ask, "Does AIDS who have allegedly given 
world." Belting out those earth has read: which goes on "What is meant by 'the lost
He wants us as His sunbeams?" up on God and the Church 
Sunday school hymns, the kids forever: in which every chapter boyhood'?" they demand to
the flip-side of the question is, because the going is rough. '"If 
were afraid they were hawking is better than the one before." know. "The lost childhood I
"Are we merely expendables God were good,'" writes C.S. 
cheap grace. explain, is the moment of truth
whom He can use to punish the Lewis, '"He would wish to make All this is lovely, and for any of us, male or female,grownups?" Would they believe His creatures perfectly happy, 
With the Cable News Network undoubtedly true; but I have no when we've become partners to
that for the sake of the chil­and if God were almighty He 
on 24 hours a day, children can doubt that the Master saw the the great betrayals that go on
dren, He became a child? "My would be able to do what He 
see the pictures of the crack­world as Shakespeare saw it. all the time in the world. We
dears," I tell them, "He didn't wished. But the creatures are 
babies, the children with AIDS, Even as the Shadowlands, He suffer the loss of innocence that
come into this world to make it not happy. Therefore God lacks 
the Somalian infants dying of loved the land of milk and accompanies our forfeiting the
a child's garden of verses. He either goodness, or power, or 
hunger, the battered children honey, as the Gospels show. state of grace; suddenly, like
saw much more sadness than both.' This is the problem of 
abused by parents. Children are The birds of the air and the everyone else, we need
you will ever see, because there pain, in its simplest form ... " Are 
lied to all the time -broccoli is lilies of the field made Him redemption. The shabbiness we
were no miracle drugs to fight the children too young to 
good for you. Yes, Virginia, mindful of His Father's love, start feeling doesn't ever go
illness. He saw boys who were understand that being the Lord 
there is a Santa Claus. It's the and He wept at the thought of away. "It was Christ's mission
athletes dying young because is no bed of roses? In the depth 
stork that brings babies, not a Jerusalem in ruins because it to regain all the lost childhoods 
they didn't have a Band-aid, of His soul He is glorious as 
lark in the night -but nobody looked so lovely steeped in -yours, mine, Judas's, and
and girls for whom childbirth God. Yet, when the Word 
denies that a disproportionate moonlight. The Chronicles of undoubtedly, Adolph Hitler's.
would be entering the valley of became flesh, and dwelt 
share of the world's suffering Narnia re-tell the One Great That's why He became a man of
the shadow of death." How amongst us, He emptied
takes place in the nursery. Story of Death and sorrows acquainted with grief." 
young was He as God's small Himself of His Godhead, and Transfiguration. The world that servant when He discovered the assumed the form of a servant. 
Every child who hates was hard on Jesus is hard on What could have happened in 
relative unimportance of death This is the dogmatic fact we 
spinach has heard about the children. That's why He loved the boyhood of Judas that
and dying, because Love can be must remember whenever we 
Chinese war orphans who go to them on His way to the Cross. would have disposed him to
stronger than Death? As Asian discuss the problem of pain.
bed hungry, crying for their C.S. Lewis wrote: "We may betray Jesus with a kiss, when
the Lion, Lord of Narnia, He How can I convince the children 
suppers every night. Where over that we have here a mystery, ignore, but we can nowhere He was on the way to becoming
wept great lion-tears 

were their rice bowls when evade, the presence of God. The the Messiah? "It could of been
Caspian, a dead king of Narnia, and not an evasive tactic paper­world is crowded with Him. He anything," I tell the children.
Jesus started taking the chil­before bringing him back to life ing over the Church's embar­
dren of the nations under His walks everywhere incognito ... " "That's why Jesus likes to keep
as a very young man. "But," rassment at having a God slow Because He has walked this the children close to Him." Iwing? A first-grader living said Eustace, looking at Asian. in answering prayer? 
under the same roof with a way as a child, and because He started to tell them a story
"Hasn't he -er -died?" 

junior sibling always in pain died for the world as a lamb, about Judas, as I imagined he
"Yes," said the Lion in a very Shakespeare writes of "this 
should be able to see that when quiet voice, almost...as if he goodly frame, the earth...this His greatest incognito. I think, might be as a boy. However, Jesus hands out crosses, the is innocence, Does He need the I'm not C.S. Lewis, who knew
were laughing. "He has died. most excellent canopy, the 
young-ones and innocents often children as His sunbeams? It the Deep Magic that could
Most people have, you know. air ... this brave o'erhanging fir­
get the lions' share. Why do we sounds like sentimental Sunday make Death itself start working
Even I have. There are very few mament, this majestical roof 
insist on His befriending chil­who haven't." fretted with golden fire ... school hype to me, but this backward. The stories I tell" 
dren, when He seems in the doesn't mean that they don't would never get children out of
Asian, at the end of the chroni­
give him joy. 

habit of using their young bod­Thank God the children are cles, calls the whole, gorgeous the Shadowlands. 
ies to redeem the world? 
Interested in writing, graphics, editing, design, or photography? 
The Observer is hiring nowI 
Call the Observer at 631-7471 or stop by our office on the third floor of Lafortune to find out more information. 


It's a big decision, choosing where to begin your career. There are many reasons to join Deloitte & Touche­our clients, our dedication to quality, our professional development opportunities, our people. People who enjoy what they do. Our mission is simple: to consistently exceed the expectations o/our clients and our people. 
With 15,800 people in more than 100 offices in the United States, and through our global organization, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu International, we offer clients worldwide an outstanding and diverse portfolio of services. For you, this means unlimited opportunities to grow, professionally and personally. So why not join a /irm that will exceed your expectations? 
Congratulations to the following students /rom the Class of '94 who will be joining Deloitte & Touche: 

Andrea Alexander  Mark Engel  Ashley Kocevar  Ed Neufer  janice Reis  
Carlos Apacible  Thomas Fleming  Angie Kolbas  Dana 0 'Leary  ]on Ross  
Mark Bangasser  Karen Grondin  Michelle Manning  ]on Oleksyk  ]enn;fer Schellenberger  
Kevin Carrigan  Masahiro Hirao  ]ames Martin  Maria Ortega  Gina Smith  
joseph Claussen  Ivan Hofmann  Amy Miltko  Denise Paulin  Eric Staub  
Nancy Davis  Brian Kelly  . Brian Murray  Michael Preissler  Timothy Walsh  
jean Einloth  

The above professionals are joining our offices in Atlanta, Chicago, Cincinnati, Cleveland; Detroit, Houston, Indianapolis, Orange County­
Deloitte&
Costa Mesa, Parsippany, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, San jose and Seattle. 
Touche 
Accounting, Tax, and Consulting Services 
We Listen. We Deliver. 
Deloitte Touche Tohrnatsu lntemational 
Deloitte &Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex, veteran status, or irrelevant handicaps. 
--.,..--~,~~­
~------­~--~----~--------~­
1 page 18
I 
Football finally coming back to Baltimore 
By DAVID GINSBURG The nickname, if Speros has his Associated Press way, will be the Colts. An NFL official wrote Smith BALTIMORE a letter threatening a lawsuit if 
On the occasion of his 35th Speros uses the same nickname birthday, Jim Speros gave Bal­as the Indianapolis Colts (for­timore a long-awaited gift -a merly the Baltimore Colts), but pro football team. Speros is ready to fight for the 
Canadian Football League moniker. commissioner Larry Smith on "Over the last nine months Thursday formally introduced I've been committed to bringing Baltimore as the league's 11th a football team here," he said. franchise. "I'm not going to stop here. I'm 
Speros, who worked nearly a going to make sure I take the year to land the team, finally risk and the responsibility of saw his effort reach fruition in trying to bring this name back a ceremony attended by Smith, to Baltimore. several CFL team owners and ''I'm not going to be intimi­two of the league's biggest dated by the National Football names, quarterbacks David League. Unless you've lived in a Archer and Doug Flutie. cave the past 10 years. every­
"Jim had a dream, a vision," body knows the Colts left here Smith said. to go to Indianapolis," he said. 
"He faced tremendous odds "This is a completely different in trying to get where he is league, one that has been today.... We recognize the fact around for 100 years." that Baltimore wanted very Smith said he supported badly to have football back in Speros' decision, noting that the city, and we recognize the there are already teams in the fact that Baltimore wanted to CFL that have the same nick­have a National Football name as NFL clubs. When the League team. But we think we NFL refused to award an can provide you with excite­expansion team to Baltimore ment that you have not experi­last year. Smith and the CFL enced since the late 1950s." were glad to fill the void. Asssociated Press conference, rushed the podium the telephone Thursday and 
The team, which cost Speros "Baltimore was definitely a and threatened Calipari. He was satisfied with the apology $3 million, will begin its train­key to our expansion plan," AMHERST. Mass. was restrained by Mas­from the Temple coach. 
ing camp under coach Don Smith said. Massachusetts coach John sachusetts players. "The reason I wanted to Matthews in June and open its Calipari has accepted an apol­speak to the media today was inaugural season in July. "What I saw in Baltimore is a ogy from Temple basketball Bob Marcum, Massachusetts to put this whole issue to rest," 
"It's been a long time com­market that has tremendous coach John Chaney and wants athletic director, said he was Calipari said. "When I'm ing," Speros said. "A lot of peo­pride and tradition. The market to get on with next week's re­satisfied with Temple's re­through today speaking, that ple dido 't think we stood a was not being properly serviced match. sponse and the Feb. 24 game at will be the last comment about chance.... The biggest winner -in my mind there was no one Temple would proceed as this whole issue that will come today is not Jim Speros -it's who wanted to service it -so After Temple lost 56-55 at planned. from my mouth. So if you ask a the community of Baltimore." we thought that if we filled the UMass on Sunday, Chaney Calipari said he talked to question, you are also wasting 
The team colors will be royal need, it would be very impor­barged into Calipari's news Chaney for about 15 minutes on your breath." blue, white, black and silver. tant to us." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2
Classifieds 
cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST: Help! 4 desperate girls need ride to PARTY TIME '94-95 Meet you major nights NDCiass Ring. Long Island or NYC for Spring Big 6 bedrm. Safe area. Free maid for the College of Business Hello. it is I, Coolest Guy in the 
NOTICES 
Engraved "Duke '95" Break. Will pay gas, tolls, etc. sevice. Beach V-ball & B. B. courts. are as follows: Universe. to give you the inside on Lost on Feb. 7 at Campus View Callx4881 
Furnished. Washer & dryer. what went on inside that Jeep from USED TEXTBOOKS or D-6 parking lot. 273-0482 or 234-3831. Marketing 2/17-6:00 p.m. the Cherokee Posse as they Management 2/21 embarked on something monumen­
Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard Please contact x1939. NEEDED: -6:00 p.m. · 233-2342/10-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun Thanks. SPRING BREAK RIDE to NY for 2 
Finance 2/22 -6:30 p.m. tal: NYC, Newburgh, Mahwah, Beautiful apt-bike to campus Accounting 2/22 -7:30 p.m. OLD BOY RUGBY! Coat left in Career & Placement Poughkeepsie pre!. 
Summer+ 94-95 yr -"This is Nashville? This sucks!" It's not 
Attention all graduate students and about 1 1/2 weeks ago. Call Will help$. 180/mo w/roommates All meetings will be in -"Traffic in Louisville?! even a real city!" 
faculty members. If interested in 631-5200, ask for Katie. Please call Brian or Jason x1130 Hickory Village 273-8369 122 Hayes-Healy -"Is attending Mardi Gras against 
forming the N.D. Old Boy Rugby Team/ Social Club, please call Jeff 
SHOE SENSATION Coming to the College recommends declaration DuLac?" Growing retail shoe -"WHO is the King of the Zima?!" 
at 634-3004 (leave a message). Concord Mall. by March 4.
FOR SALEWANTED
The club will only form if enough company seeks enthusiastic, inde­-"I'm glad we have to go back are interested. so please don't hesi­pendent individuals to work full or Sponsored by Sophomore Class. today, because if I had another tate to call. ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT­part time in retail shoe store. NISSAN SENTRA 83 GOOD CON­night of this, I'd d1e." Previous experience a plus. DITIONS $1450 OR BEST OFFER -"The dogs are chasing the cows.
fisheries. Many earn $2000+/mo. in WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 canneries or $3000-$6000+/mo. on Flexible hours. Excellent benefits 80 ML LEAVE MESSAGE Selling 1 Phantom ticket for the the birds can no longer fly-what fishing vessels. Many employers package and generous discounts 2778598 Sophomore Class JPW trip. Call the hell am I saying?!" Jean Jean the Typing Machine is provide benefits. No exp. neces­available. Potential of $5 to $6 with Gail X3097 -"1 spent over 50 dollars for drinks last night?!· 
BACK! Call18858 for fast. friendly sary! For more info call: 1-206-545-sales bonus. Please send resume on-campus service. 4155 ext. A5584 to: Action Enterprises Inc., 253 MACINTOSH CLASSIC II 4/80, 2 ~"This Bloody Mary had no end!" America Place, Jeffersonville IN MB RAM (EXPANDABLE TO 10). ########################## -"1 ordered nuts and fruits and she 
LIKE NEW. $550. 277-1463. ATIENTION ALL FRESHMEN said 'isn't that a cereal?"' GOING TO CHICAGO ON JPW. -"Hey I think Will Clark's on the DID YOU LEAVE YOUR KEYS IN 47130
ILOST & FOUND I 
THE OBSERVER OFFICE? WE HAVE A Kj:Y RING WITH 4 KEYS 1982 PONTIAC 6000, GOOD Buses leave libraby circle at 11 :00 next float!" 
LOST A FEW MONTHS AGO POS­ON IT WITH THE NUMBER 140 ON Ambitious students -Build your own COND., MANY NEW PARTS, Saturday morning. Please bring -"I'd die for those beads!" SIBLY IN DEBARTOLO: 2 OF THEM. COME BY THE business -Earn a good profit on an POWER WINDOWS. MUST SEE TO ticket with you. Have a blast! -"We're just gonna nap for 15 min-attractive new product. Call APPRECIATE. $1300. ########################## utes and then we'll go." 
ALL BLACK NYLON JACKET OBSERVER & ASK FOR SHIRLEY -'Try to get to Kentucky before 
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X4298 TO PICK THEM UP. (800)736-1621 273-5825. dark; I want to see some blue 
grass."

LOST: Long blue winter RICCO RIDE needed for 2 to St. Louis for coat at LeMan's formal on Spring Break. Call Christian @1226 LOVING BABYCARE NEEDED FOR TICKETS -Hey guys? No more Southerners Sat. MON. OR WED. MORNINGS. EXP. Roses are red, jokes. OK?" 
FOUND: Long black coat where +OWN TRANSP. REO'D. 233-6657 1-W, INDY/ORUNAPLES, $175 Violets are blue, Thanks and goodnight. mine should have been. Need ride to/from Baltimore area 
2196547222/2196548392 I'll be in Australia, 
........................................
Hope you'll be too. please call Mike at x4264. tolls.Call634-2849!!! DEADHEADS-I need tapes bad. I've got the blanks. Can you come Volunteer program with diverse ser­HELP! need ride to Pittsburgh through for me? 273-5817 Need NC-ND B-Ball Tix Lower vice opportunities. including teach­SUMMER JOBS -ALL UJST -LONDON FOG TRENCH (USC) for spring break. help Arena. Kevin 288-3408 ing, AIDS ministry, homelessness. LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRESTIGE 
If you accidentally took my coat for 2-spring break. Will help w/gas. 
battered women, seniors' ministries. CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRON­
COAT DURING THE HOLY w/gas, tolls, etc. friendly and Chicago Bulls Tix For Sale Hispanic ministries. abused chil­DACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE CROSS SRY AT THE SENIOR breathtakingly beautiful! Please 
FOR RENT 
2/21 vs. Charlotte dren. Holy Cross Associates. PLACID CALL 1-800-786-8373 2/23 vs. Golden State Contact Jeff Hammes, HCA Office 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOM HOMES FOR Good Prices. Good Seats 1-5521 or Mary Ann Roemer, LOST: U OF I COLLEGE OF AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­
BAR. PLEASE CALL X1772. call Kara, x2449. thanks! 
RENT. NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM: Call Will at x 0577 Center for Social Concerns 1-7949. 4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in AGRICULTURE GREY SWEAT­MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + $225. MO., 2 BDRM: $325. MO. 
Washington, D.C. area wish to 
PERSONAL 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, SHEILA NAV­adopt infant brother or sister. Close AGH! YOU ARE THE BEST! extended family in area. Let's help 
SHIRT AND BURGUNDY SCARF TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! AVAIL. NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES 
AT HAGGAR OR NOH (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, 272-6306 love. the nutty girl across the hall each other. Med/legal paid. Please
PLEASE CALL DOMINIC X1166 ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING AND call Jessica or Bob
SUMMER SEASONS APPROACH­2-5 BEDROOM HOMES ING. FREE STUDENT TRAVEL SECURITY SYSTEM ADOPTION: Loving, financially 1-800-864-8385. secure couple longs for a newborn
Lost: black leather ladies right CLUB MEMBERSHIP! CALL ALL APPLIANCES Hey Carolyn, glove call beth 4994 (919)929-4398 ext C29 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS to join our family. Please call Nancy do ya like the beads??? 232 2595 and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. 

Friday, February 18, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
Robinson scores record night in win Timberwolves may be on 
Associated Press hit a 15-foot jumper, Antonio 
Davis made one of two free 
David Robinson had the throws and Miller nailed a 3­NBA's first quadruple-double in pointer with 1:29 left to push almost four years Thursday the lead to 76-66. night, getting 34 points, 10 re­Fleming added 19 points for bounds, 10 assists and 10 the Pacers, who won for the blocked shots in San Antonio's eighth time in nine games. The 115-96 victory over Detroit. Mavericks got 17 points from 
The Spurs set a team record Jamal Mashburn. with their 11th straight victory and moved into a virtual tie with the Houston Rockets atop Heat 115, SuperSonics 112 the Midwest Division. 
Robinson's quadruple-dou­Steve Smith matched his ca­ble was the first since Hakeem reer-high with 32 points and Olajuwon did it on March 29, Grant Long scored Miami's final 1990. The only other players six points as the Heat ended with quadruple-doubles since Seattle's five-game winning the NBA began keeping track streak. were Nate Thurmond in 1974 The win completed an im­and Alvin Robertson in 1986. pressive back-to-hack perfor­
mance by the Heat against two 
Pacers 84, Mavericks 73 of the best teams in the league. 
Miami had a 109-101 victory 
Reggie Miller scored 22 over the Bulls at Chicago on points and Indiana took advan­Wednesday night. tage of Dallas' 33 percent Glen Rice added 28 and ex­shooting to post a victory in the tended to 40 his team record lowest-scoring game this sea­for consecutive free throws, go­son for the Mavericks. ing 7-for-7. Sean Kemp and 
Dallas trailed 70-66 with Detlef Schrempf each had 22 
3:12 to play, but Vern Fleming points for Seattle. 
SOMMER JOBS IN CINCINNATI 
Property Management firm in Cincinnati is looking for individuals to work as landscapers. Work full time maintaining grounds at apartment communi­ties throughout Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky. Send a letter of interest to: Mark Ahern, 255 East Fifth St., Suite 2300, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202. A pre-employment drug test will be required. 
The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editors Viewpoint Copy Editors 
Applicants for both positions should have a strong interest in journalism, editing skills and a knowledge of page design. Applicants should submit a resume and 1-2 page personal statement to Suzy Fry by 4 p.m. Sunday, February 20, 1994. For additional information, please contact Fry at 631-4542. 
Hey Computer Users! 
Check outthese incredible new low prices 
Derrick Coleman had 28 points and 17 rebounds and Kenny Anderson added 17 points and 16 assists to lead New Jersey, which reached the .500 mark (24-24) for the first time since Nov. 14 when it was 3-3. Boston lost its sixth straight and the game was never in doubt after the first period. The Celtics were led by Jimmy Oliver with 16 points. No Boston player has scored 20 points in any of the last three games.  Associated Press New Orleans is the third city to be mentioned as a new home BATON ROUGE, La. for the team. Nashville and San The Minnesota Timberwolves Diego are the other two. are said to be looking for a new NBA commissioner David home, and Gov. Edwin Edwards Stern has used New Orleans as said they may find it in an example of a city that has Louisiana. passed a tax plan that would The Timberwolves' face a subsidize a new basketball multi-million dollar shortfall in facility. paying off the debt on their The Louisiana Legislature arena. Without some help from has voted to sell $250 million in government, they may have to bonds for athletic stadiums and move, KSTP-TV reported. other projects including a bas­Gov. Edwin Edwards said ketball arena, but none of the Thursday that he has met with bonds has been sold. a group that wants to bring the Edwards said Louisiana will  
Bullets 109, Timberwolves 108  Timberwolves to New Orleans. not be involved in any purchase "We are negotiating with the of the Timberwolves.  
Rookie Calbert Cheaney scored a career-high 30 points on 11-for-16 shooting as  people who are negotiating to "If there were an acquisi­buy the 'Wolves," he said in a tion, we might be asked to as­statement. sist in some kind of services,"  
Washington extended Minneso­ta's road skid to nine games.  Purdue's Hunter proclaims 
Tom Gugliotta had 18 points  
and 18 rebounds for the Bul­lets, who snapped a four-game  himself Jesus during break-in  
losing streak. Michael Adams contributed 18 points and 13 rebounds. Doug West scored 26 and Chuck Person 24 for Minnesota, which has lost eight of nine overall and 14 of its last 15 road games.  Associated Press they said. A student told police he re­WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. turned to his dorm room early Former Purdue University Thursday morning and found a quarterback Eric Hunter was man inside. arrested Thursday for allegedly Jerry Smith said he had not breaking into a residence hall, locked the room, but did not police said. know the man and had not  
Knicks 102, Cavaliers 95  Hunter, 23, was carrying a given him permission to be knife, talking to himself and there, said officer Robert Cal­ 
John Starks scored 32 points and made all nine of his sec­ond-half shots as New York avoided its first three-game los­ing streak of the season.  telling people he was Jesus, houn. Purdue police said. After his Hunter was arrested and arrest, he escaped from taken to the Tippecanoe County Wabash Valley Hospital and Jail, said university spokesman eluded police for 45 minutes, Greg Zawisza.  
The Observer  Holtz  
continued from page 28  
is now accepting a  quillity here, and I am comfort­pplications for:  
able with my decision."  
Holtz has a home in Orlando 
Assistant Ph oto Editor where he spends a great deal  
of the off-season.  
Saint Mary's P  "He would certainly talk with hoto Editor  
people here (if he intended to  
Sports Photo Editor  leave)," said Notre Dame  
Sports Information Director  
Accent Photo Editor  John Heisler. "Obviously, he  
has a contract that runs a cou­ 
ple years. If he was seriousrsonal statement to Scott  
Please submit a two-page pe  (about leaving), I would think  
Mendenhall by 5:00p.m., Frid ay, February 18. For more he probably would have dis­ 
information contact  Scott at 631-5323 cussed it with someone.  
"It was news to me when I  
heard about it," Heisler said of  
the newspaper story. "We  
heard lots of these rumors a  
few years ago, but they were  
all unfounded and nothing  
came of it."  
Dallas Cowboy coach Jimmy  
Johnson and former Washing­ 
and co  ton Redskin coach Joe Gibbs 
lorthe campus!  have also been menUoned as  
other possibilities for the Jack­ 
sonville job. Gibbs.. has ex­ 
pressed interest in the. position,  
and Johnson, despite warnings  
from Cowboy owner.&hip that  
any contact by the Jiguars to  
Johnson would be cqtlsidered  
tampering, has sho\!fl an in·  
terest in the post. ,.. '.  
HP D eskJet SSOC The job with the ' · uars is  
Prin  considered lucrativ~> ecauseter for the PC  
the coach would mjt likely 
• HP'sprem ierpersonal300dpi have complete contrlffover all  


HP DeskWriter SSOC Printer for the Mac 

• 
HP'spersonalplain-paperpfinter fortheMacintosh-integrates printerintegratesaffordoblelaser­laser-qualityblackplintingwith qLKJiityblackplinthgwithconvenient cawenientcolorcq:>al:jity color 

• 
Fastpfintspeeds •Fastplintspeeds • Canpotbiewith~System 7.0 •13Scalablefontsforwindows 



Adobe and PostScript are registered trademarks ofAdobe SysteiiL<. Inc., in the U.S.A. and other cmmtries. 

Notre Darne Cotnputer Store • Roon1 112 CCMB • 631--7477 
the move to New Orleans
Nets 117, Celtics 98 page 20 The Observer • SKATING Friday, February 18, 1994 


Boitono, Petrenko fall to younger skaters in short program 
By BARRY WILNER 
Associated Press 
HAMAR, Norway Clear out, champs. The kids are taking over. 
Kids with names like Elvis, Alexei and Philippe got the jump on Brian Boitano, Viktor Petrenko and Kurt Browning ­champions all. 
The revolution in men's fig­ure skating started in Thursday night's technical program, a messy affair of slipping and sliding. Boitano and Petrenko, the last two Olympic gold medalists, flopped into oblivion, along with four-time world champ Browning. 
That gave the kids an open­ing to skate through. 
Russia's Alexei Urmanov, 20, grabbed first place going into Saturday night's free skate. The technical program is worth one-third of the total score. 
Right behind was 21-year­old Elvis Stojko of Canada, Philippe Candeloro of France, and U.S. champion Scott Davis, both 22. 
Urvanov has struggled since winning a bronze medal at last year's world championships. 
But not on this night. 
"I expected to skate well," Urmanov said before being hus­tled away by Russian officials. . 
No one expected Boitano's chances to vanish so quickly ­50 seconds into the night when he botched a triple axel. 
"I don't know what hap­pened, I haven't missed it all week," said the 30-year-old skater who finished eighth and acknowledged he might have been nervous. "Maybe I wasn't in the moment. ... 
"It goes to show if the top names make mistakes, Qudges) will not hold them up there," said Boitano, the 1988 Olympic winner. 
Petrenko, the 1992 Olympic champion, was even worse. Us­ing the same technical program that helped him in Albertville, the Ukrainian messed up his combination jump, then two­footed a very weak triple lutz. He lacked the flash that usually marks his performances and fmished ninth. 
Boitano and Petrenko re­ceived marks below 5.0 for technical merit from the British judge. Neither could remember the last time they got a mark in 

the 4s. Browning had even more trouble, plummeting to 12th. 
He fell on a triple flip and popped a double axel -a jump he should do effortlessly, but one that has plagued him through the years. At 27, this will be the last Olympics for the decade's most dominant ama­teur skater. He's almost certain to leave without a medal. 
"I've never felt like this be­fore, ever," he said. "It was easy to step into the top three, just a nice skate would have done it." 
Urmanov, dressed like a minstrel but skating like a ma­gician to "Rigoletto," was mag­nificent this time. 
He immediately nailed a monstrous triple axel-double toe loop combination, smiled broadly and sailed through the rest of his 2-minute, 40-second program. His triple lutz and double axel were perfect, then he closed with a series of won­derful spins. 
Five of the judges had him first. Three voted for Stojko, and one for Candeloro. 
Stojko used oflbeat choreog­raphy and a strong finish to 
\YALL 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992 AND 1993! 
Szechuan • Cantonese • American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday *8.95 for Adults 
• 3.95 for Children under 110 

take second place. He let out a big sigh when he finished, then yielded the ice to Davis. 
Skating to "Zorba The Greek," Davis hit all his re­quired jumps and spins, but the jumps were shaky. His spins, as always, were quick, but his footwork wasn't and he seemed to run out of gas. 
It wasn't nearly as inspiring a show as Davis put on when he upset Boitano at the U.S. championships. But it was good enough to give him a solid shot at a medal. 
"I heard how Brian and Vik­tor skated, but I tried to put it out of my mind," Davis said. "It wasn't my best performance, but it was good." 
Candeloro, performing on his birthday, skated to music from "The Godfather," which he also uses for his free skate. A large contingent of country­men waved a banner reading "Allez La France" and shouted his name. His gestures of defi­ance meshed perfectly with his huge jumps and quick tempo. 
" 'The Godfather,' it is not my favorite movie," he said. "But it is my favorite music. 
"Maybe it was my experi­ence of skating for 15 years that helped me tonight. But who knows on Saturday night?" 
The veterans know they have no chance. 
Doug Leigh, who used to coach Browning and now works with Stojko, seemed to explain it best: 
"There's young ones in ev­ery competition and as far as I'm concerned, they have a lit­tle bit of a competitive edge be­cause they deal with the high risk factor. 
"It's a different ballgame. For the people coming back, it had to be tough on them." 
JAMAICAN 
BOBSLEDDERS? 
\Corned~ ln,pired by tlw firstJ&rnaican Bobsled Team J; 
"' 

#PO~~iiR""'~
7 &9p.m. Friday & Saturday Carroll Auditorium $2 Admission 
Rental Units Now Available 
• 1/4 Mile from Lib1rary  •Washer & Dryer Units  
• Brand New Appliances  • Large Closets  
•2 Bedrooms  • Covered Parking  
• 2 Bathrooms  • Security System  

• Large Balconies 
Come See Us For JPW OPEN HOUSE 
Saturday, Feb,. 19 & Sunday, Feb. 20 
272-0691 
Going Quickly • $660 per month 

Friday, February 18, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
Hurricanes a special mat~h for Irish 
By KATE CRISHAM ''I'm familiar with some of Louderback. "We recovered Sports Writer their players from playing them and played really well against in junior tournaments in William and Mary on Sunday." The 18th-ranked Notre Florida, but our teams have "Kansas is a very good 
Bye 
Ron Jacinto 
G

Brian Banigan 
Jay Wolforsberger 
L 
Jeff Gerber 
David Mor1<en 
Bye 
0

GregMar1<s 
ScottSmoron 
John Bradshaw Andy Gasser 
Rob Nobriga 
u Michael Ahem JoeHartzett 
L

Jim Breen 
Nate Mid< Sean Hammer 
Dan Couri Andrew Dicello Butch Gabr8ro8 
E Dan Schmidt JohnKmetz 
D 

Rob Ganz David Hollen · 
Matt Kowalsky
~!";~~~ 
Chris Rosen 
Steve Clar 
DamonAfftnito Rick Rogers 
Todd Garlitz Brad Par1<er 
c 
Eric HillegasJosh Langford 
Matt Carbone 
c

Kevin Mullaney 
O'Shaughnessy W~liams Glen Manzano 
0 
Man Berilla Dave Rodricks 
Jim McMahon Brendan Heathennan 
Mike Thompson 
0 

JeHGoodard 
R 
John Skinner JoeZimheH Mike Norbut 
~~~~~~ivan 
Stefan Molina John Christoforetti 
R 
N 
BrianWenord Shaldon Fink 
g~~ Peterson Mike Farrell Dan Adams 
Nolan Koon Nick Harmon 
N 
E 
Kevin O'Rour1<e Bye E
Clay Scheetz 
Andrew Groff Todd Murphy 
Rob Naticchia Matt Ford 
Bob Lalor 
R Bye Dave Valenti 
R
Mike Witzman 
Mike DoBiasi 
Turn them into Bethany 
Riddle's mailbox in SUB or at the Student Government office 
~ dk/lad ~4t«//, ~ 
&1 

MR~. D.OU~TFI~E ~ /,..:]~.~,,..?-w=f~~-;··
t.3o, 4.15, 7.15, 1o.oo _ _ ~ .L _ 
mye.ar 
DAN AYKROYD IPGI 
2:45, 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 
WfNOM RYnER IPG-131 2:15, 4:45, 7:00, 9:30 
Myh The
Fat erHero 
GERARD IPGI DEPARDIEU ~­
12:45, 3:00, 5:00, 7:30, 10:00 
~fSNEf'S 
Blank Check [!QJ 
12:15, 2:30, 5:00, 7:00, 9:15 
Now FREE REFILL on Popcom (I Soft Drinks! 
NICK~ ,<.,I 
NOLTE ~'1) _IS 
2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
GRUMPY ou)MfN 
JACK LEMMON 1:15, 4:15, 8:45, 9:00 IPG-131 
Steven Seagal is 
ON 
DEADLY oo GROUND 
2:00, 4:30, 7:15, 9:45 
fll VENTURA ~gECTriE
IPG-ul .JIM CARREY 12:30,2:45,5:15,7:45, 10:00 
PRIZE: 2 tix to tlze upco1nht(\ SUB coJlcert... 
Dame women's tennis team is preparing for a weekend of competitive matches-begin­ning with the 16th-ranked University of Miami Hurricanes. 
"Anytime any Notre Dame team plays Miami in anything, it's always a good match," said head coach Jay Louderback. "We're definitely looking for­ward to playing them." 
No current member of the team has ever faced Miami. The Irish were scheduled to play them in the first round of last year's NCAA tournament, but the Hurricanes were forced to withdraw, due to injuries. 

Saint Mary's handles Concordia, 72-62 
By ANNE NAPIERKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
With Saint Mary's stellar per­formance in basketball last night, the opponents remaining on their schedule could be in for a tough battle. 
Taking control early, the Belles dominated the entire game and finished off Concor­dia University, 72-62. 
"We looked better than we have been looking," said head coach, Marvin Wood. "We got 
Not a Franchise•A Family Owned Business 

257 .. 1100 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery Call273--2EAT 
$ 2 offlarge pizza with Student ID 
off to a good start. The girls did some nice things." 
Shooting 45 percent, the Belles maintained a substantial lead throughout the game. 
However, Concordia gave the Belles a scare when they went on a three minute scoring spree in the second half and cut the lead to single digits. But the Belles responded by sinking six consecutive baskets, holding Concordia at 57. 
"We were playing together really well," center Barbara never played each other," said senior captain and Florida na­tive Sherri Vitale. "It should be a very competitive match." 
Miami's 2-3 record is deceiv­ing. All three losses have come from top-20 teams, including last weekend's loss to 4th­ranked Florida. 
The 5-1 Irish are also recov­ering from a tough weekend loss. They suffered a 8-1 defeat on Friday to 15th-ranked Kansas, before bouncing back on Sunday with a 7-2 win over William and Mary. 
"The loss to Kansas could end up being good for us," said 

Main & Jefferson 
Hours 
Mon-Sat ll a.m.-llp.m. SW14-9 p.m. 
team," he continued. "They lost a real close match to (num­ber-one ranked) Texas." 
"For the most part, everyone played well against Kansas," said Vitale. "We proved we were able to bounce back by beating William & Mary . " The other two matches of the week­end won't prove any easier for the Irish. They will face Kentucky on Saturday and Northwestern on Sunday. 
"Both of those teams will be tough," said Vitale. "They aren't ranked, but they've re­ceived votes, and they're really close to making the rankings." 
Howells said. "It helped having a win behind us." 
After suffering from a five game losing streak, the Belles turned things around Tuesday night when they beat Goshen College, 62-57. The win gave the Belles confidence going into last nights game. The Belles also attribute their win to the change up defense which they have recently practiced. 
"We were really surprised," said Concordia's head coach, Jan Fisher. "We expected Saint Mary's to play man to man." 
The defense also allowed the Belles to contain Concordia's height. Howells was instru­mental as she battled Concordia's six foot three cen­ter. 
"We played tough defense the whole game and we never let up." said Howells. 
The Belles' offense looked equally as tough. Leading the game in scoring was sopho­more, Jennie Taubenheim, who raked in 36 points. 
"Everything was on tonight," said Taubenheim. "I think we learned a lot from our losing streak about what to expect and what to anticipate." 
The Belles are hoping that the past two wins have set a precedent for the games remaining this season. They will be tested again when they go on the road this weekend to take on Kalamazoo College. 


page 22 The Observer • WINTER OLYMPICS Friday, February 18, 1994 
Norway cheering for Jansen "La Bomba'' set to win his fourth gold medal 
in his last chance for gold 
By ALAN ROBINSON Associated Press 
HAMAR, Norway One more race. One more chance. 
Dan Jansen's 10-year run of Olympic heartbreak ends with Friday's 1,000-meter race ­one way or the other. 
The race, almost certainly the last Olympic event for the speedskater from West Allis, Wis., could mark him for all time as a failure of almost mythic proportions in these Games -the showcase of win­ter sport where he has never won a medal. 
Or he could break the string of Olympic losses that get more attention than all his triumphs. 
The latest failure came Mon­day, when he slipped on a turn and placed eighth in the 500 meters, the distance he set the pace for with a new world record in January. 
"I felt really sorry for Dan Jansen. ... He has to just relax and skate and then he will have his gold medal," said Johann Olav Koss, the Norwegian whose gold medals and world records in the 5,000 and 1,500 have made him the star of the'se Games. 
Or any medal. 
"I really feel sorry for him. Dan is the fastest skater in the world," said Russia's Sergei Klevchenya, who won the silver Monday. 
Will Jansen go down in the record books as the Heartbreak Kid, the one who couldn't man­age a single Olympic medal in four Games? 
Or can he win? 
''I'll just go out and skate. If it happens, it does," Jansen said. "If not, I'll go on -same old thing." 
Jansen doesn't dominate the 1,000 like he does the 500, but he's won five of his eight races this season and easily leads the World Cup standings. He was only fourth in his two 1,000­meter races at the world sprint championships in Calgary on Jan. 29-30. 
His Olympic record also sug­gests this isn't his race. He was ' 16th as an 18-year-old at Sara­jevo in 1984, he fell in Calgary four years later and he faded to 26th place at Albertville, 
-~ 
France, in 1992. 
"But I'm more comfortable now in the 1,000," Jansen said. "I don't try to skate it anymore like it was the 500.... I enjoy it almost as much as I do the 500." 
And, as he noted after Mon­day's failure, there is a little more room for error. 
Jansen will be all alone Fri­day on the Viking Ship ice, but millions of speedskating fans will be cheering him on ­here, home in America and elsewhere. 
He's a superhero to the Dutch and the Norwegians, who love skating and have adopted Jansen as one of their own. 
When he suffers, they suffer, too. 
On Friday, the red, white and blue-clad Norwegians and orange-painted Dutch will once again hold up signs reading "Dan's the Man" and "Go Dan Gold" and "We Love Dan" and 
"Go DJ" ­ hoping, once again,  
that  this  will  be  the  day.  
Finally.  

Only Jansen can set aside the burden of his history as a man who cannot win at the Olympic Games, when all the world is watching. 
And only Jansen knows if it is possible. 
By PIERO V ALSECCHI Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway La Bomba will have to share the spotlight this time. 
Alberta Tomba, by and away the most colorful figure at the 1992 Winter Games, blew into town Thursday sporting a goa­tee but found himself playing understudy to Tonya Harding. 
The Italian skier will get a taste of the new order Friday, when his introductory news conference at the main press center follows directly after Harding's first Olympic en­counter with the media. 
Few people in Lillehammer would bet that Tomba will out­drawTonya. 
Playing second fiddle is something new for the flam­boyant Tomba. 
Tomba, known internation­ally as "La Bomba" (The Bomb) because of his explosive style between slalom gates, reported to the accreditation center wearing the blue uniform of the Italian team. 
He will stay initially at the main Olympic Village but said he may transfer closer to the slalom areas at Hafjell before his races. 
He's been assured that his favorite pastas will be available there. 
Tomba, seeking his record fourth Alpine gold, said he was 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Associate Accent Editor Assistant Accent Editors Accent Copy Editors 

Applicants are asked to submit a 1 page personal statement and resume to Mary Good no later than 5 p.m. Sunday, February 20. For more information, contact Mary at 284-5487. 
not 100 percent fit because of a slightly dislocated right shoul­der. But he declared he would be in perfect form by the start of his first race, the giant slalom, next Wednesday. 
Tomba said he trained more giant slalom than slalom at Val Di Fassa, in northern Italy. where the zero-degree weather was as cold as frigid Norway. 
He also alluded to the sur­prising wins by Tommy Moe and Diann Roffe-Steinrotter in the opening speed races of the Olympics. 
"The U.S. team holds the secret of fast skis, thus we must learn from them," La Bomba said. "Equipment will be ex­tremely important at low tem­peratures here." 
Tomba added: "Moe's vic­tory also indicates that Olympic races are open ... and that ten­sion can cause you nasty tricks." 
The only Alpine skier to have won three golds in two different Olympics (Calgary and Albertville). Tomba is the de­fending giant slalom champion. But his entourage suggested he could have better chances in slalom this time. 
The slalom is scheduled on the last Olympic day, Feb. 27. 
A gold in either race would make Tomba the frrst Olympian to win four Alpine golds. 
Tomba won his fourth World Cup slalom of this season at Garmisch on Feb. 6 despite the shoulder problem. 

This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
Friday, February 18 -------------­Notre Dame Women's Tennis vs. Miami (Fll 
4:00 pm Eck Pavilion 
-------Saturday, February 19 -----­Notre Dame Women's Tennis vs. Kentucky 11:00 am Eck Pavilion 
Notre Dame Men's and Women's Indoor Track vs. Drake 
12:30 pm Loftus Center • • FREE ADMISSION • • 
Notre Dame Men's Tennis vs. Wisconsin 6:00 pm Eck Pavilion 
--------------Sunday, February 20 Notre Dame Women's Tennis vs. Northwestern 
2:00 pm Eck Pavilion 
for YOU 
-f 

This gift can bt:• yours with any 
purch;:b.-oi 15J)O or more 
Indian Ridge Plaza Ne>rt to Venture Grape Rd.. Mishawaka 
277·7946 expires 2-28-94 
may apply 0 c011)"91t 1994 Chago lialraJttJng Co. 
Friday, February 18, 1994 The Observer • WINTER OLYMPICS page 23 
U.S. hockey team rallies again for a 3-3 tie 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway 
What else? A tie. 
In its best-played and most exciting game yet, the U.S. hockey team tied Canada 3-3 Thursday night. And in tying (of course) the Olympic record with three ties in a tournament, the Americans left the ice with perked-up medal hopes and a feeling of accomplishment. 
"There has been a lot of ref­erences to our lack of intensity from start to finish, and proba-• bly they're well-deserved ­until today," U.S. coach Tim Taylor said. 
"I think we did our share of standing around in Games 1 and 2. We certainly took stock in that and realized that we put our backs against the wall by only coming out of the Slovakia and France games with a total of two points. I think we had a little bit more feistiness." 
The United States had rallied from two-goal, third-period deficits to tie France and Slo­vakia before tying Canada on Todd Marchant's power-play goal with 28 seconds to play. Sweden also had three draws in 1988 and went on to win the bronze medal. 
The Americans play Sweden (2-0-1) on Saturday and finish the preliminary round Monday against Italy (0-3). They are behind Sweden, Canada (2-0-1) and Slovakia (1-0-2) and ahead of France (0-2-1) and Italy in Pool B. To be one of the group's four medal-round qualifiers, they probably only need to win one of their two remaining games -or to tie them both. 
"Whatever it takes," U.S. goalie Garth Snow said. 
Though the team could prob­ably make the medal round with five ties, Taylor said: "Yes, but we need a win. We need to prove to ourselves that we can beat somebody. I think this was more of a win than the first two ties to us, mentally. So I think this will be more a springboard to us. We'll see. 
"We've had very positive fin­ishes to all of our games. I think we feel the best about this one. I think we feel like this was a real good tie." 
So did Canada coach Tom Renney, who joked that it was "a good win for both teams." 
Though it certainly was as good as a win for Canada, which clinched a medal-round berth, Canadian players were not as happy as their coach. 
"It's too bad because I think we're a better team overall and we deserved to win," Petr Nedved said. "The big differ­ence between us and them: They're satisfied with a tie and we're not." 
Marchant understands Nedved's feelings. 
"When you come back on a team and you tie them, you feel as if you've won," he said. "When a team comes back and ties you, you feel like you've lost." 
SI,IUNG BRI!J\U PJ\NA!IJ\ CI'l'Y llUA(~D, I~LOIU))J\ 
•shell Island Party Cruises •Beach Bonfire Parties 
650' Gulf Beach Frontage 0 Tiki Beach BarNolleyball 2 Outdoor Swimming Pools Sailboats, Jetskis & Paras-oils 
I Indoor Heated Pool • ~ 
Karaoke Beach Party Restaurant, 2 & 3 Room Suites :. • • Area Discount Coupons 
FROM $104 PER WEEKSANDPIPER-BEACON RES£RVATlONS 

1740) Front Beach Road PER PERSON r.,..,... Gry Beoch, Fl 32m 1-800-488-8828 4 PERSON OCCUPANCY 
Since a Jan. 25 pre-Olympic victory over Canada in Toronto, the U.S. team is 1-1-5 in exhibi­tion and Olympic play ­including ties in its last five games. 
"I made the statement in Toronto ... 'It's really hard to win a hockey game at this level. You can't make mistakes, you have to be focused from be­ginning to end,' " Taylor said. "And now the kids are kind of joking about it: 'Coach, ever since you said it's really hard to win a hockey game we haven't been able to do it.' " 
Marchant scored after a hooking penalty on Canada captain Fabian Joseph with 42 seconds left. 
Taylor pulled goalie Garth Snow for an extra attacker, giv­ing the Americans a 6-on-4 edge. 
They immediately took advantage, with Marchant wristing a shot from the right faceoff circle through a tangle of players and past goalie Corey Hirsch. 
It was the first goal of the Olympics for Marchant, the top 
U.S. scorer in exhibition play. 
"I didn't see it go in right away," he said. "All of a sud­den I saw Corey Hirsch turn around ... and then everybody came over and trampled me." 
Snow made 29 saves, includ­ing a penalty shot by Greg Johnson with 7:49 remaining to keep the U.S. team close. 
Taylor praised Snow but said Mike Dunham, who was shaky in allowing four goals on 14 shots in the opener against France, would play Saturday against Sweden. Dunham, who almost always plays well against the Swedes, stopped 64 of 68 shots in his last two pre­Olympic exhibitions against them. 

Anyone interested in reshaping Student Government next year: 
Pick up application in Student Government Office 2nd floor LaFortune. 
Applications available Monday, February 21-25. 
Application deadline Monday, Feb 28. 
Tommy Moe experiences ·a silver medal birthday 
By JOHN NELSON 
Associated Press 
RINGEBU, Norway 

With crumbs of birthday cake on his face and another medal around his neck, Tommy Moe flashed a wide grin and spooned another piece into his mouth. 
"I think I'm having a dream Olympics," he said. 
So is the U.S. ski team. 
Moe turned 24 Thursday, the same day he became the first American man ever to win two Alpine skiing medals at a single Winter Games -a gold in the downhill and now a sil­ver in the super-giant slalom. 
If not for some trouble on the bottom half of the steep, twisting Kvitfjell course, Moe's medal might have been gold. 
Norwegian Atle Skaardal, whose 28th birthday happened to coincide with Moe's, brought a decorated cake for a party, carrying it in his outstretched arms like a pizza delivery boy. 
In the finish area, with what seemed like half of Norway looking on, he shared a toast with gold medalist Markus Wasmeier of Germany, Norse teammate Kjetil Andre Aamodt, the bronze medalist, and Moe. 
Wasmeier flashed down the mountain in his black-and­white zebra-striped suit in 1 minute, 32.53 seconds. He was just a whisker ahead of Moe ­eight hundredths of a seconds -and .40 ahead of Aamodt. 
Moe had the fastest time of the day at the last timing post -1:21.10-but lost crucial fractions of a second on the bottom section. Wasmeier, whose final interval time was 1:21.25, skied a smoother line near the end to make up the difference. 
Aamodt, the defending Olympic super-G champion, likely left his gold medal chances at gate No. 30 of 41, where he made a time-consum­ing slip. 
"It's a little bit of a disap­pointing day for Norway," he said. "I made a little mistake, and I couldn't win the gold medal." 
Some 60,000 people packed the finish-line area, a mass of humanity that stretched all the way up the 2,574-meter slope and into the forested hills. 
They hung from trees, waved flags, and bounced up and down, trying to keep warm in the 5-degree temperatures and cold north wind. Children in troll suits got their feet mas­saged to keep them from freez­ing, and every complexion turned the ruddy hue of Nor­way. 
They sang "Happy Birthday" to Skaardal when he skied down first, and when Moe flew by, wearing bib No. 3, they sang just as loud. 
"It felt like the whole town was singing 'Happy Birthday' for me,'' he said. "I was kind of surprised." 
He turned in the finish area, waved and blew a kiss to the crowd. 
Moe has one more chance to win yet another medal, and it's a pretty good one. He was third on Monday in the downhill por­tion of the combined, with the slalom half of the race sched­uled for Feb. 25. He finished fourth in both combined races on the World Cup tour this sea­son. 
"It's going to be tough for me in the combination slalom, but I'm more than happy right now,'' Moe said. "I can't be­lieve I have two medals. After a gold and silver, it would be nice to add bronze, though." 
The only other American man ever to win two Olympic skiing medals was Phil Mahre, but he got them in two Olympics, a gold in 1984 and a silver in 1980. Penelope Pitou was a double silver~medalist for America in 1960 at Squaw Valley, Calif., and the great An­drea Mead Lawrence won two gold medals in the 1952 Games at Oslo. 


CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIOA Y & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:30 CALL 631-7361 FOR TIMES AND DATES FOR ALL CINEMA AT THE SNITE FILMS 
P' 


-·~~--­
Friday, February 18, 1994 

Irish fencers to compete at Junior Olympics 
ByJOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
While the fencing team re­ceives some well-deserved rest this weekend, a few of its mem­bers wiU be looking to pick up some individual honors at the Junior Olympic Championships. 
Sophomores Claudette De Bruin and Mindi Kalogera along with freshman Jeremy Siek will be traveling to Little Rock, Arkansas to compete in the under-20 meet on Saturday and Sunday. The top four or five qualifiers taken in each weapon will represent the U.S. on the junior national team which will compete in Mexico City over Easter in the Junior World Games. 
"The kids go there to repre­sent the program, but it is also a prestige thing for them," said men's coach Mike DeCicco. 
At the championships, Siek and Kalogera will both compete in foil, while De Bruin will fence in both foil and epee. Siek and De Bruin are both currently ranked 5th in the U.S. in foil and Claudette holds the 2nd ranking in epee. 
"Jeremy is fencing well right now, and if he keeps going at his current pace, he should have an excellent chance to make the team," said DeCicco. 

UNITED STIJTES POSTIJL SERVICE 
As an appreciation to our customers, the Notre Dame Post Office will be open Monday, February 21 for President's Day! 
There will be an OPEN HOUSE with refresh­ments and behind-the-scenes TOURS. Also, free postal SOUVENIERS for all customers. 
Join us Monday from 
8:00 a.m.-4:30 p.m. 
"It is also a very good possibility that Claudette could make the team in both of her weapons," he added. 
Each weapon event will see forty to sixty of the top under­20 fencers from the U.S. com­peting, making it difficult to predict what will happen with the skilled talent that will be present. 
"It reflects back well on the program if the kids do well," said DeCicco. 
As for the rest of the team, they will be receiving their sec­ond week off in a row because their meet in Philadelphia was canceled last weekend due to 
SPECIALIZING IN ITALIAN CUISINE 
Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest Prepared by Francesco and Family An Authentic Taste ofItaly Most Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
Hours 
1213 LincolnWay West
Mon-Thu 4-10 
Mishawaka
Fri & Sat 4-11 
(Francesco was chefat f'ID for 30 years!) closed 
the snow storm on the east coast. However the two weeks off in a row leaves the team with only one more meet before the NCAA regionals on the first weekend in March. 
"We anticipated this week­end in order to mend some bumps and bruises, but we would have really liked to fence last weekend," said DeCicco. 
The team will be practic­ing this week and then get back into the full swing of things next Monday to prepare for their meet at Ohio State on the following weekend. Coach DeCicco was also anticipating a scrimmage on Tuesday. 
Junior Parents Weekend! 
256-1444 

Rejuvenated men's tennis focuses on Badgers · 
By PHIL LANGER Sports Writer 
The University of Notre Dame men's tennis team will hope to recapture the focus they used Tuesday night to beat Michigan State University as-they take their impressive 6-1 record into a tough match against the Wis­consin Badgers Saturday at 
6:30 in the Eck. 
The Badgers, coming off last weekends 3-4 loss to Ball Stat~. hope to rejuvenate themselves by challenging an extremely explosive Irish squad. 
"Wisconsin is extremely com­petitive." commented Notre 
Get complete coverage of The Bengal Bout finals in next Friday's SPORTS EXTRA 
~Ji, Colonial 

PANCAKE HOUSE 
9tu~~l'ly !Rt~.rlaurtZDI 
NOW SERVING BISCUITS & GRAVY FOR $2.79 
MON-FRI ONLY Serving ND/SMC Since 1965 Open 7 Days a Week At 6:30a.m. US 31 North in Roseland (Across from the Holiday Inn) 
(219) 272,7433 
Dame head coach Bob Bayliss, "they are somewhat compara­ble to MSU." 
Two of the Irish that sparked Notre Dame's 5-2 win over MSU, senior Tom North and freshman Mike Mathers, will undoubtedly be sidelined by injuries on Saturday. 
The Irish, however, will hope to compensate for these unfor­tunate losses with top perfor­mances from their dangerous doubles trio, captain Andy Zurcher, recently ranked No. 36, and freshman phenom Ryan Simme, still the highest ranked freshman in the country at No. 32. 
C!JE!Iii! ~ i!!liil. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor Saint Maris News Editor Saint Mari,s Sports Editor Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Any full time student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Applicants are asked to submit a 1 page personal statement and resume to Beth Regan no later than 5 p.m. Monday, February 21. For more information, contact Beth at 631-4540 or 284-4453. 
Our House Specialty Oven,Baked Apple Pancakes 
No Coupon Needed 



Friday, February 18, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
Bowling Green awaits slumping Notre Dame 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 
If there ever was a crucial 
contest for an eight-place team, 
this is it. 
Tonight, the Notre Dame 
hockey team travels to Bowling 
Green to face off against the 
Falcons. The game is signifi­
cant for two reasons. 
First, the Irish need points in 
order to secure their tenuous 
hold on their current standing 
in the playoff race. 
Second, and most impor­
tantly, Notre Dame needs to 
start building momentum for 
the playoffs. 
The Irish have won but one 
game, against this same Bowl­
ing Green squad, since semes­
ter break. It does not take a 
genius to figure out that the 
Irish are struggling to find ·answers. 
The injury bug has not helped 
the Notre Dame's fortunes in 
the least bit. Both season-end­
ing injuries and nagging muscle 
pulls have sidelined numerous 
Irish icers. 
This has forced coach Ric 
Schafer to go to the end of his roster. Although the reserves have responded rather well, it is tough to find consistency with constant line-up shuffling. 
Despite the problems, Notre Dame is guaranteed the chance to redeem itself in the CCHA playoffs. If they are to advance to Detroit, the Irish need to start winning now and put the losing behind them. 
"Our last couple of games will set the tempo for the post-sea­son, said Ben Nelsen. 
Although Notre Dame already owns a victory over the Fal­cons, Bowling Green, is no easy place to start a winning streak. 
BG owns 12-9-2 mark in the CCHA, which is good enough for a sixth-place spot. 
Leading the way for BG are Jeff Wells and Brian Holzinger. Wells, one of the CCHA's best defensemen, leads his team in points with 28. 
Junior center Holzinger is often the recipient of the feeds, as he has lit the lamp 14 times. In net, freshman Bob Petrie boasts 11 of the Falcons wins and looks to be one of the bet­ter young goaltenders around. 
Still, Notre Dame does have 
HAO/LULAC DANCE 
AT SENIOR BAR 
FROM 9 P.M. TO 1 A.M. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19 
$2 PER PERSON 
$3 PER COUPLE 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
the advantage of this being their only game of the week­
end. This should allow the Irish to put everything they have into pulling out the vic­tory, with no regard to the next day. 
Also, Notre Dame has more riding on this game. A win would go a long way in secur­ing an eight-place finish and a playoff matchup against either BG or Miami. 
A loss, on the other hand, would put the Irish closer to a first-round meeting with pow­erhouse Lake Superior St. Notre Dame has beaten the Lakers already, yet LSSU will be a tougher opponent, due to the fact that they are the nation's top post-season team. 
If the Irish are to get this vital Win, they must be led by Jamie Ling and Matt Osiecki. These two have been the constants all year long, and must continue to provide leadership for this young team. Ling leads the Irish with 31 points and Osiecki has contributed 24 while lead­ing the defense. 
These two need more support though. Possible sources for more offensive output are freshmen Tim Harberts, Brian McCarthy, and Ben Nelsen. Backline assistance needs to come from skaters like Garry Gruber, Davide DalGrande, and Bryan Welch. 
"We'll continue to work 
hard," said Schafer. "Our time 
will come when we start to win 
these games." 
Maybe it is that time. 

HOOPS 
continued from page 28 
hasn't played in seven, I thought they took advantage of that." 
Although O'Neill was quick to congratulate the Irish on the win, the underlying message of his post-game talk was one of bitterness. 
The supposed controversy revolves around a scrapped Notre Dame game against Fordham and television cover­age. 
According to John Macleod, Notre Dame never signed a contract to play Fordham and the Marquette game was origi­nally scheduled for Feb. 13 but the Warriors backed out to play Cincinnati on national televi­sion. 
Marquette's argument seems a little weak in light of Notre Dame's upset of UCLA and defeat of Georgia on con­secutive days at the beginning of February. 
But by far the biggest hole in Marquette's conspiracy theory is Notre Dame's flawless play in the second half. With only two turnovers and 19 rebounds in the half, the Irish dominated offensively and defensively in a way that no extra rest would have prevented. 
MacLeod was pleased with his team's performance. 
"We did get rolling in the second half with perimeter shots, and then it opened us up on the inside game as we were able to drive the ball and find 

THE LANGUAGE RESOURCE CENTER PRESENTS: 
A Teleconference: 
FROM THEORY TO PRACTICE: THE NATURAL APPROACH 
February 23, 1994 

3:00 PM -5:00 PM Room 116 DeBartolo Hall 
Featuring panel discussion with Steven Krashen, Jeanne Egasse, Erwin Tschirner, Mary Rogers, Magdalena Andrade and Miguel Munoz. During questions and answers segment you will have an opportunity to participate by telephone. 
Registration is free, but you must call (1-5881) or stop by (Room 201 O'Shaughnessy) to reserve your place. 
Sponsored by McGraw-Hill Publishing and the 
N.D. Language Resource Center. 
This is probably the rivalry in the Midwest outside of the Big Ten, one of those "throw out the records" games, which both teams would probably gladly agree to do. It seems like a long time since this game carried national implications, but both teams do have something to play for this weekend. Notre Dame (10-14) is trying hard to finish another disappinting season on a high note, while DePaul (13--8) has lost five of its last six and needs to rebound if it wants to retain any NCAA Tournament hopes. 
Joe Ross," said MacLeod. "We had seven turnovers for the game which was the low for the year." 
Monty Williams notched a game high 27 points while Ryan Hoover chipped in 20 and Ross added 10. The Irish shot 60 percent in the second half compared to 25 percent in the first half. 
Carl Cozen contributed heav­ily from the bench with 4 re­bounds and five crucial points in the game. His three pointer from the right side with 13:14 left in the game gave the Irish a lead that they would not sur­render. 
Hoover and Williams did the rest nailing jumpers and free throws to keep the Warriors on the run. 
Williams impressed yet an­other coach with his play and forced O'Neill to change his defensive strategy. 
"Monty played a great bas­ketball game. He deserves to have a chance to play at the next level and he will. We could not match up with him in the second half, that's all there was to it." 
Defensively Joe RL'SS, Williams and Cozen shut down the lane and Marquette's cen­ter, Jim Mcilvaine, while Lamarr Justice and Hoover prevented the Warrior front­men from moving the ball around with stuck-like-glue defense. 
Mcilvaine was the high scor­er from Marquette with 13 points and 6 rebounds while guard Tony Miller added 12 points and seven assists. 
The Irish came out of the half to erase Marquette's 26-20 lead in three quick minutes, taking the lead for the first time in the game on a Hoover three pointer to make it 29-26 before 
Cozen shot sealed the lead. Hoover had a hot hand in the second half, notching 14 of his 20 total points. 
In the first half the Mar­quette defense controlled the pace of the game while the of­fense opened the game with consistent shooting. The War­riors scored the first points of the game on a Miller three pointer and continued to build their lead from there. 
Marquette held the lead and Williams in the first half. Williams scored only eight of Notre Dame's 20 first half points including the first points with a pair of free throws. 

~----~-----------------·----------------------------------------------------·----------~------------~---------­
page 26 The Observer • ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
t 
Women's basketball streak ends at five wins 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 
The buzzer sounded as time expired and the two teams left the court. The scoreboard at the JACC read 85-75, and both teams had seen their streaks come to an end. 
Unfortunately for the Notre Dame women's basketball team, it was their five game winning streak that had been put to rest, along with visiting LaSalle's two game losing streak. 
The Irish suffered a demoral­izing loss on their homecourt last night, falling by 10 points to a LaSalle team that everyone they should have beat. 
While the Explorers are by no means a pushover, they came into the game having lost their last two games, and at the end of the first half found them­selves trailing the favored Irish by seven points. 
In the first half of the game, the Irish led from the outset, shooting 53.3 percent from the field and dominating under­neath the basket. 
Junior forward Letitia Bowen had 12 points and 10 rebounds in the half, with her double­double coming with 4:42 left. 
Freshman guard Beth Morgan also had a great first half, scoring 12 points on 4-8 shooting, including 2-3 from behind the three point arc. 
As a whole, the Irish played well as a team, looking very much like the squad that had ripped off five consecutive vic­tories. The scoreboard at the JACC at the close of the first 



~ountry Harvester Presents 

~~-~tn~ C rr_ • .~r~r · " 
' /1. oue.ctwn o1 :.memones 
~f IRISH,.VILLAGE 
Authentic wood replicas of Notre Dame BuDdings 
The '{lllage Is Growlngl 
,~ (.''' .
t~.--'lo. 
;-· ~ :. 
:11.~ • • . 

..!~.•~~~' ..•• .'·: We are pleased to announce additions to our collection ofNotre Dame Buildings: 


Rockne Memorial, Fisher Hall, Farley Hall, Breen-:Phillips Hall, Sorin Hall, Alumni Hall, Lyons Hall, Zahm Hall 
...A. ~ 
~ li_W 
Officid{y .LicensedProduct of'Ifie 'University of'JWtre 'lJame 

:Fo:r yo-..:r II.e:x:~ soc:i.O;I. e-veII.~, ~~:FI :reiii.o~es••• 
Our EXPERIENCED studentDJ§ will 
PLAY what you want ttco lhceaur 
ON Oil 01111 ~~,n~! 
So contact WVFI with your request list todayl Call Jeff at 634-1471 or 631-6888. 
half read 40-33, and it was the Irish who had the advantage. 
While the Explorers were bested in the first half, two im­portant factors allowed them to stay within striking distance. 
LaSalle out rebounded the Irish 23-18, and sophomore guard Lori Sparling led all scor­ers with 14 points, hitting two of her four three point attempts. 
When the game had come to an end and it was LaSalle who found themselves on top, the Explorers still had out re­bounded the Irish, 54-38, and Sparling still led all scorers, with 25 points. 
But LaSalle's second half per­formance, in which they outscored the Irish 52-35, was by no means all Sparling. Early on in the half, it was another Explorer who beat the Irish. 
Sophomore guard Allyson Blue dutnped in 11 points for the Explorers in the game, with all 11 coming in the second half. Blue scored LaSalle's first five points in the second half, with three of those points com­ing from the foul line. 
A 12-5 run enabled the Ex­plorers to tie the game for the first time at 45-45, when Blue hit both of her free throws fol­lowing one of 21 Irish second half personal fouls. 
The Irish were unable to get the lead back in the game, managing only to tie the score three times following LaSalle's first lead, which came when forward Chrissie Donahue hit both of her free throws to put the Explorers up 47-45. 
Trailing 57-62 with 7:43 to play, the Irish were dealt a crushing blow when Marnie McBreen and Stephanie Cod­dens hit back to back three pointers to give LaSalle an 11 point lead at 68-57. 

This proved to be the nail in the coffin for the Irish, who would get no closer than nine points to the Explorers in the remainder of the game. 
Letitia Bowen's fine first half play was lost to a large degree in the second half, as early foul trouble limited the much-need­ed forward to 13 minutes of play in the second half. 
The loss left the Irish feeling despondent, especially head coach Muffet McGraw. 
"We expected our bench to play well in this game," said McGraw. "They did not con­tribute well at all, and the starters did not play well either. Having Letitia in foul trouble also cost us." 
Senior Sherri Orlosky, who rmished with just four points on 2-7 shooting after scoring 19 in the Irish's last game, was also upset with the team's second half performance. 
"We didn't play good de­fense," said Orlosky. "They were beating us on the pene­tration, and we didn't rebound well either." 
Freshman Beth Morg{n led the Irish with 22 points, the 13th time she has led the team this season. Bowen finished with 16 points, and led the team with 15 rebounds. Tootie Jones scored 12 points and grabbed six rebounds. 
The team's record is now 16­6 overall, and 7-2 in the MCC. 
The Observer/ Sean Farnan Tootie Jones and the women's basketball team lost to LaSalle 85-75 last night. 
Leprechaun and 
0WCBC8[]0CB[lc0C8[] 
Tryouts 
1994-95 Cheerleader Squad Tryouts will be held in March. 
Students interested should attend the informational meeting February 21, 1994 at 5:00 
p.m. at the JACC in the Pit. 
Please bring proofofinsurance. 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents: 
ARaisinintheSun 
by Lorraine Hansberry 
Washington Hell University of Notre Dome Wednesday, February 23-Soturdoy, February 26, ct 8:10p.m. Sunday, February 27, ct 2:30 p.m. 
Tickets: $7 reserved; student end senior discounts cvcilcble Wednesday, Thursdoy end Sunday Viso/MosterCcrd orders: 631-8128 

Directed by guest artist Kym Mo o r e 
Friday, February 18, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 27 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WAITERSON 
SIJDOENL~ I S\01'\'8) 
CI>.RI~G. 




0\..C\JLr>.\t:. C>\JR Rr>.IC I~ fEH PER 1'111~\JTE, ,&..\\\) CO~Ij£.RI 1\l~ l~m \111\..\:S I'£R \-\OOR . 
-

C: 1~ WanersonJ01st by Unrversal Press Synci!Ca'!e 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLEIT 

For better health and fitness, exercise.
ACROSS 29 Like some 57 Blue, in a way polynomials 58 What's more
1 Six-Day War 
~ 

31 Bud's buddy 59 Kettle and commander 
0 American Heart Association 
others32 St. John's7 Music makers player &2 Dear one? 
c 1992. Amoricon Hean Associobon 
to Paul Fusco TV 
36Reps. &3 Head of surveysrole OF INTEREST
&7 Sleep disturber, 39 Blow it 13 Oregon city possibly40 Bubby of the14 First name in &a De Valera's land N.F.L.
tennis &9 10-Across and 42 L.L. Cool J's
tsMy-others
genret& Chico, really 10 Lie on the
43 Affix a brand to beacht8 Common vow 
45San-, Tex. 
71 Driller's deg. 
19 Snorkel, for 4& Wanted-poster 72 Floating
one: Abbr. 
abbr. 20 Rocky Road 
47 Untrue
servings DOWN
49 Norton's21 Chair person? 
workplace 1 Poivre's mate 23 Gauge 
51 Spokes 2 Lemon and 25 Cnan portrayer orange, e.g. 
!i3 Linguine 2& Flummox toppings 3 Het up 4 Airport pickup 5 --string ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE & Squares 7 Yearbook 
signer 8 S orE: Abbr. 28 Simon LeBon's 44 Ruffle 55 Letters before a 9 "All My Pretty band 48 Of nobility state name, 
Ones" poet perhaps
30 Like Nash's 50 Sparkle 

to "Goodbye, s& Cagney role 
lama 51 Barely talks 

Columbus" star 60 Gazetteer data 
33 Bullpen stats 52 Word fora 

11 Burdened &1-Fein
person on the
340utmoded

12 Arctic finger go? 64 Sci-fi suffix 
items 

t4Pucks 54 What George &5 Carte start 35"No-" 
couldn't tell 66 Wings of a sort 

•~~~rgr~~~~ ~mll. 171t impresses (menu phrase) 
~ 22 Saturn's end? 
37 Fish haul 
Get answers to any three clues
38 Practice with a 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
palooka 5656 (75¢ each minute).

--Schary 41 Charlie Hustle 




Student Union Board would like to welcome all of the Juniors' parents and wish them a wonderful and memorable JPW weekend! • 
crazy stuff and more! 
----~ -­
SPORTS 
page 28 Friday, February 18, 1994 
Reports s~y Holtz staying with Irish 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
For now, Lou Holtz is staying at Notre Dame. 
Reports linking Holtz with the head coaching position of the expansion Jacksonville Panthers were refuted by university officials and Holtz yesterday afternoon. 
The Florida Times-Union, citing unidentified team sources, said Jaguars President David Seldin flew to White Plains, N.Y., on Wednesday to meet with Holtz, who has been traveling for sever­-al weeks. 
Holtz was in White Plains, N.Y., and not due back in South Bend until late yesterday evening. But he surprisingly appeared at a team conditioning prac­tice late in the afternoon, and according to several players, assured he would not be leaving. 
Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal issued a statement earlier in the afternoon after conversing with Holtz. 
"I spoke with Lou Holtz this afternoon and he indicated to me that he's very happy in his role as head coach at Notre Dame and he fully intends to continue coaching here for years to come." 

Veteran boxers in the spotlight 
Ten returning finalists highlight Bout's opening 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN ~ G A dance of upperclassmen, but Sports Editor ...C..\.~ .{ each weight class is solid." ..0..y ..0 Appalling to the boxing It is a day when the taste of V 
purest or the pacifist. the 
defeat is more sweet than bit­0 opening rounds traditionally ter, where victory is measured ~ ..~ supply a large dose of wild in prayers from thousands of 0\ \...--1 blows and quick fights. This miles away. ._,:, year's card shouldn't prove to It is the one time harming a 0\ ~ be much different. but as fellow student brings good to Cf.) always, upsets and intrigue
,...... 
mankind, when the violence find their way into the ring. within a boxing ring symbol­DOHRMANN'S PICKS "This is the best group of izes a greater fight. new fighters we've had in my 
BEST FIGHT:

It is the Notre Dame Bengal four years," said Gerber. Mission Bouts. Where strong Dave Morken vs. Greg Marks "Most of them participated in 
bodies fight that weak bodies 140-pound division the Novice Tournament in may be nourished. Now in its UPSET SPECIAL: October and that gave them a 65th year, Notre Dame's an-taste of what they can expect
Butch Cabreros over 

nual boxing spectacle begins in The Bouts." 
Andrew Dicello

Sunday at 2 pm on the floor of What the fans can expect is 
145-pound division 
solid fighting in three divisions the Stepan Center. 

The bouts have raised over Complete pairings page 21 which clearly outclass the rest $200,000 in aid for the Holy of the group. Cross Missions in Bangladesh. Forty-eight stu­Fighters in the 145-pound class will be watch­dents will step into the ring in hopes of victory ing the performance of Michael Ahern as he bids for themselves and for the missions, just as for­for the place in the finals which eluded him a mer director Dominic J. Napolitano envisioned year ago. He should make it this year but the during the 50 years he served The Bouts. battle to face him is up for grabs. 
Seven weight classes open fighting this week­The Andrew Dicello/Butch Cabreros fight high­end with 24 fights on the card. Five of the lights the bottom of the bracket. Dicello is the favored boxers received opening round byes and favorite but Cabreros fought Golden Gloves in his the eighth division, the heavyweights, will not native Texas and will throw more hooks and begin fighting until the semifinals. uppercuts than most fighters. This year's crop of fighters consists of primari­The 155-pound class features five fighters with 
ly upperclassmen with a few talented newcom­Bout experience and three newcomers who have ers. Ten returning fmalists highlight the group, passed the test in sparring during workouts. including three-time champion Jeff Gerber fight­Senior Steve Clar is the favorite and the gem of ing at 140-pound and two-time champ Matt Carr the group. But the best fight in the class may in the heavyweight class. come from Rick Rodgers and Todd Garlitz, who "This year's group looks good from top to bot­meet for the right to fight Clar in the semifinals. 
tom," said Gerber. "There is certainly an abun-Seasoned fighters Matt Carbone and Josh Langford square off on the bottom half of the 155-pound division and appear evenly matched in experience and skill. 
The 180-pound class features hard punchers from top to bottom. Jamie Bailey thrilled crowds last year with his heavy blows and is the favorite. Sophomore Tim Mahoney and freshman Mike Mantey head the group battling Bailey. 
Outside of the three deep divisions boxing fans can expect a few thrilling matchups. 
David Morken and Greg Marks are evenly matched in the second fight of the 140-pound division and veterans Rob Ganz and David Hellen provide a puncher versus a boxer matchup in the 150-pound class. 
"There will be some good fights, there always is," said Gerber. 
Quarterfinal winners will square off in the semifinals on Tuesday with the finals set for Saturday, February 26. 


Holtz still has two years remaining on a five-year contract he signed in 1991, but would not be in violation of that con­tract to discuss a position tvith another team. 
He coached in the NFL for most of the 1976 season with the New York Jets. He lasted thirteen games, which included ten losses, before leaving. 
Why Holtz was in White Plains is a mystery. His son, Skip Holtz, who is head coach at University of Connecticut, had no idea his father was nearby or if he was considering a job with the Jaguars. 
The elder Holtz has been candid about his ambition to coach at the professional level. He has found success at every col­lege he has coached, and his only failure came during his stint at the professional ranks. 
Holtz discussed the issue in the Notre Dame media guide. 
"We all have egos. There are certain parts of me that wanted to look at coaching at the professional level. They don't have admissions and academics in the NFL. You can lose five games and still win the championship. But I could list so many great assets about Notre Dame. There is just a peace and tran­
see HOLTZ I page 19 
Inside SPORTS 

Men's Tennis 


The Observer/Jake Peters 
Monty Williams had his usual stellar performance for the Irish 
against Marquette. 
Irish get first road win 
By JENNY MARTEN and athletic director charged, Senior Sports Writer after the game, that Notre Dame pulled a scheduling MILWAUKEE coup that gave the Irish an 
Hey Kevin O'Neill, Do you unfair advantage. want some cheese with that "I thought our team tired a whine? bit and struggled defensively 
Marquette became the lat­a bit maybe because of a lack est ranked victim of the upset of legs or whatever," said minded Irish in a 68-58 con­O'Neill. "The bottom line is test, but the Warriors didn't my team's played four games go down quietly. As a matter in eight days. Notre Dame of fact, both Marquette coach 
see HOOPS I page 25 
Juniors Perform Lisa Junek and the track Andy Zurcher leads the 

and field juniors will per­
Irish in their weekend 
form for their parents

matchup with Wisconsin 
this weekend. 

see page 24 
see page 24 

La Salle wins Despite 16 points from Letitia Bowen the women's basketball team fell to La Salle 
see page 26 






