

Monday, March 28, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 113 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
CBS, Buckley to visit Notre Dame 
By EDWARD IMBUS column three times a week. On News Writer "Firing Line," he gained a repu­tation for asking difficult but 
William Buckley, one of the pertinent questions to a wide leading and most respected variety of guests including conservative voices in America, Margaret Thatcher, Groucho will be speaking on "Reflections Marx, and every president on Current Contentions", at the since Richard Nixon except Bill Stepan Center on Tuesday night Clinton. at 7:30. 
The lecture will be followed Buckley has been given sev­by a question and answer ses­eral awards and honorariums. sion with Buckley, and later a the most notable being the reception open to the public. Presidential Medal of Freedom. 
CBS National News will also He has also received over 35 be on campus. following Buck­honorary degrees ley to Notre Dame to gather in­He has served in the federal formation and tape footage of government as a high level con­Buckley for a feature story on sultant through many ad­the news magazine show "Eye ministrations, from being ap­to Eye." pointed to the U.S. Information 
agency to the National Security 
Buckley, most well known for Council and the United Nations. his Emmy-winning PBS TV Tickets to the lecture cost $3 show "Firing Line," comes to for members of the Notre Dame Notre Dame with distinguished community and $5 for the gen­credentials. After graduating eral public. According to the from Yale University with hon­sponsoring Student Union ors. he founded the conserva­Board, tickets are still available tive journal "National Review" at the LaFortune information in 1962. Buckley wrote several desk. The reception in the best-selling books such as Dooley Room of LaFortune "Right Reason," and currently after the lecture is open to all, writes a nationally syndicated free of charge. 
Dougherty discusses health care reform Parietal 
By VIVIAN GEMBARA Family Conference. His dis­The current health care pro­said. 
resolution
News Writer cussion focused on the ethical gram is not working due to the The need to remain focused dimensions of health care ra­numerous "eligibility require­on working towards a common With health care rationing an tioning. ments," Dougherty said. good was also stressed. inevitable part of the future, it According to Dougherty, ra­Excessive paperwork, age, Dougherty suggested that ex­

passes
is important that citizens put tioning is the equitable distribu­income, geography, employ­tensive research, involving sta­By KATE CRISHAMtheir directional equipment up tion of a resource, and he said ment and physical background tistical and outcomes experi­
Assistant News Editor 
front and make sure values are he was in favor of it. are some examples Dougherty ments. be implemented in order taken into account, according With rationing, Dougherty offered. to find the best solution. 
The Office of Student Affairs to Charles Dougherty, professor explained, all Americans would His opinion on the Clinton In his criteria for health care -has approved a Student Senate of philosophy and director of be provided coverage, and the administration was favorable in rationing, Dougherty warned resolution recommending thatcenter for Health Policy and increasing cost of health care that they are determined to against creating a plan specific the morning parietal policy beEthics at Creighton University. would be more controllable. provide universal health cover­to the poor while the middle 
changed from 11 a.m. to 10
Speaking to a full auditorium "We have thirty-five million age. According to Dougherty, class and higher continue to a.m. every day, according toat the Center for Continuing uninsured, and we spend more their fault is that they aren't use the system to their individ­Student Body President FrankEducation on Friday, Dougherty than any other country. One out admitting up front that heath ual limits. While a two-tier sys­Flynn.
was the guest lecturer for the of every seven dollars is spent care rationing will be included. tem is seemingly inevitable, A letter from Vice Presidentseventh annual Philip Clark on health care," he said. Dougherty referred to the people must share the majority 
of Student Affairs Patricia
philosopher Immanuel Kant of benefits and restrictions to­O'Hara to Flynn states that theand various Catholic teachings gether, he explained. 
resolution will become effective as a basis for his explanation of Dougherty cited Oregon's re­
at the beginning of the Fall
moral duties in regard to pro­cent health care changes as a Semester 1994. 
viding health care. With the potential problem for their ten­The resolution, which wasunderstanding that human dig­dency to be directed towards initiated by the Student Senate, nity is a basis for human rights. the lower classes, rather than was approved unanimously byhe supported the idea that all equally amongst all. He com­the Campus Life Council (CLC)should receive health care. mended Oregon for collecting before being sent to StudentBecause all humans are equal, feedback at town meetings and Affairs.
he said, rationing is an ethical incorporating citizen opinions In her letter, O'Hara stated means by which to evenly dis­and values into the final plan. 
that her decision to approvetribute this care. Dougherty's Disadvantages to rationing in­the resolution "was influencedreoccurring point on equality cluded the potential for prema­by the virtual unanimity with was the Catholic teaching that ture deaths, lower quality of life respect to this change." Shespecial responsibility be paid to and the possible inequity to­said that the unanimous deci­the poor, sick and disadvan­wards the poor, according to sion of the CLC to support thetaged. Dougherty. He also warned resolution, as well as support"We have to simply suspend against the dangerous effects from various rectors implies apeople from judgment and treat rationing could have on the "level of consensus" of support people's condition, treat them doctor/patient relationship. 
for the change. 
regardless of how they are re­While rationing is an in­garded by society." Dougherty evitable part of the future, he 
Flynn was pleased that the
said. "Human life has dignity supported the idea that doctors Student Senate was responsiblebecause it is a part of God, not be a direct part of the ra­for initating the resolution .
health care is not something tioning process. Rationing "The letter said that she was one sells or gives to another but should be left to the expertise influenced by the 'consensus'it is a social and communal of the social level of society, not of support all over campus,"convention." the individual level, according said Flynn. "It was nice that it
Specific points were made by to Dougherty. 
was a student group that wasDougherty as guidelines for Dougherty received his Ph.D. 
able to bring about that
health care. His primary point in the mid-1970s from Notre change."
was that rationing be justified Dame and has spent his entire 
Two judges test solutions submitted by one of the 21 teams competing "The wishes of the students
in every case. Citizens should career at Creighton University, 
for the $100 first prize in the first annual Undergraduate Computer are being heard," he said. "I
expect to pay a responsible where he instructs medical and
Programming Contest held Saturday in the Fitzpatrick Engineering commend Student Affairs for
level of tax for the care. he dental students. 
approving the resolution." 
Building. 


~--­
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE ( 
S.R. 23: The site of the Domer Drive 
"Drivers, start your engines!" 
Welcome to the fourth annual Domer Drive, an off road vehicle race, spon­sored by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Fun in the Mud Club. The course for this year's driving challenge is the northern boundary of the University of Notre Dame-Douglas Road. 
This course is particu­larly challenging for our drivers because the entire blacktop is littered with potholes, com­parable in size to most moon craters, an equal­ly hazardous railroad track, and, beyond the campus boundary at the intersection of State Road 23, a bump that could nearly knock a speeding vehicle into space orbit. 
Before the race the participants of the Domer Drive were apprehensive about the course selection because they felt that although they were all experienced, amateur off-road drivers, they feared the potential damage to both their vehicles and to themselves as drivers. 
Disregarding this concern, race officials are waiting to wave the checkered flag at the finish line-if anyone makes it that far. 
Although there is no checkered flag at the end of Douglas Road, and the Domer Drive is only a dream, the poor driving conditions on Douglas Road are not fictitious. Students, fac­ulty, administrators, shuttle buses and Michiana residents, face this all too real race/peril every day. 
For months, I have driven on Douglas Road and each time I hold my breath as I swerve around potholes big enough to swallow my entire Ford Escort and loose touch with the pavement as I bounce across the intersection at 
S.R. 23. Sometimes I almost feel like I should call my car the General Lee, slide in through the window, and pretend to be one of the brothers from the Dukes of Hazard. But then, perhaps even their car wouldn't have survived Douglas. 
I do know that recently attempts to repairs the road were made, and they couldn't have come at a better time. 
I was beginning to understand why so many students suddenly were driving big Ford Explorers and Isuzu Troopers. These were the only vehicles that were able to drive on Douglas without falling victim to the potholes. My tiny car tried to make the trip and failed miser­ably-! have a bent up hubcap in my trunk to prove it. 
This repair attempt is not the complete answer. For a road as heavily traveled as Douglas is, the filling in of a handful of potholes does not solve the problem that Douglas is in very bad condition. It is in desperate need for a completely new black top. Although this is an expensive project and will be a temporary inconvenience, it would be well worth the expense in the future. Imagine driving on Douglas without the fear of your car falling apart or getting a concussion by hitting your head on the dashboard. 
Dare to dream-maybe one day we won't have to experience the Fun in the Mud Club's 
Domer Drive. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Production  
Kate Crisham  Cheryl Moser  
Gwen Norgle  Kathie Young  
Sports  Accent  
Jason Kelly  Mary Good  
Viewpoint  Graphics  
Suzy Fry  Chris Mullins  
Lab Tech  
T.J. Harris  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Pr<SS. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
37 killed as massive tornado strikes the southeast U.S. 
PIEDMONT A tornado caved in the roof of a church crowded with Palm Sunday worshipers, killing 19 people. Eighteen others died as twisters and violent thunderstorms tore through the Southeast, battering two other churches, hundreds of houses and a nursing home. The tornado hit Goshen Methodist Church about 11:30 a.m., shattering win­dows and toppling a brick wall on a pew of children in Easter outfits waiting to sing in a pageant. At least 90 people were Injured, said authorities in this northeastern Alabama town. Six chil­dren, ages 2 to 12, were among the dead. Worshipers said they heard wind against the church, then the lights went out. "At that minute, things started hitting the side of the church, and something 

AP 
came through one of the windows," said Carol Scroggins, who was at the altar leading the Easter program. "I just started to scream, 'Everybody get down!' ... People were screaming, but it happened so quickly there wasn't much time for reaction." 
The tornado ripped away an entire side of the low­slung, modern red brick building and blew the steeple into the parking lot. Pieces of pews and wooden chil­dren's chairs were strewn across the lawn. 
"One man ran down the aisle yelling 'Get on the floor!' " said worshiper Elwanna Acker, 63. "Then the roof came down. The woman right next to me died." 
"People were praying," she said. "People were worrying about their grandchildren." 
A nursery filled with children in a church wing did not collapse. 
Sixteen bodies were found inside the church, and one man was found outside in a van, apparently killed by part of a toppled telephone pole, Cherokee County sherifrs deputies said. An 18th victim died while being driven to a hos­pital, and a 19th died at a hospital. 
About six miles away, the Union Grove Methodist church was demol­ished by a tornado during services, but its 7 5 worshipers took shelter in the 
basement and escaped injury, said Piedmont Mayor Vera Stewart. 
A tornado also heavily damaged the Ten Island Baptist Church, about 30 miles west of Piedmont, and injured an undetermined number of people, Calhoun County sherifrs dispatcher Leon Hill said. 
The tornadoes were part of an intense spring storm system that began with moist, unstable air off the Gulf of Mexico early Sunday. 
Clinton Whitewater probe continues 
WASHINGTON For months, a federal investigator named Jean Lewis labored to get her superiors to take seriously a check-kit­ing scheme at an Arkansas savings and loan that she believed might have benefited President and Mrs. Clinton. Lewis, an investigator in the Resolution Trust Corp.'s Kansas City, Mo. office, was for months the lone voice calling for a probe into the relationship among the Clintons, the Whitewater Development Corp. and the failed Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan. Her actions came to light last week when Rep. Jim Leach, R-Iowa, released a series of memos, notes and electronic mail messages between Lewis and her colleagues. Now, she is likely to be a key in special prosecutor Robert Fiske's Whitewater probe and the RTC's ultimate decision about whether to pursue civil actions against those involved in the failure of Madison. 
Serial rapist's release re-considered 
SACRAMENTO His release from prison enraged residents of a sparsely populated northern California county and rocked the state parole system. The governor is now personally considering his case. But who is Melvin Alfred Carter, the serial rapist of at least 100 women, by his own count, who so focused one state's attention on where it places parolees? Carter, 49, who has served less than half his original 25-year prison sentence and is now living in a two-bedroom bungalow in a forest prison camp, grew to manhood with a profound hatred of women, according to a confidential Alameda County probation assessment obtained by The Associated Press. "While he has dated 'a few' women during his adulthood, he has never had a close or satisfying relationship with a woman and he has never had sexual contact with any woman he has dated," the document said.Carter had an unhappy childhood, tor­mented by a stern mother. 


Group documents art 'censorship' 
WASHINGTON 
Artistic freedom is under attack from both the right and the left, and such challenges often have the "chilling effect" of goading artists into censoring themselves, a civil liberties group says. Objections to controversial art no longer grab national headlines, but they are prolifer­ating at the local level, according to "Artistic Freedom Under Attack, Volume 2," a report released today by People for the American Way. In 63 percent of the 204 incidents described in the report, challengers succeeded in getting artwork removed permanently or temporarily, restricting the public's access to it, having it covered up or altered, cutting funding for an artist or arts organiza­tion or canceling a planned exhibit. Artists sometimes go along to get along, it said. "Restriction or removal can come from the outside or take the form of a more insidi­ous chilling effect that leads to self-censorship by artists," the report said. 
Change imminent in Italian elections 
ROME Voters began giving Italy a new political face on Sunday, the first day of national elections that promise to turn the government's sights to the right or the left. With the centrist parties that led the country since 1948 dis­credited by a corruption scandal, the parliamentary elec­tions pitted a conservative alliance formed by one of Italy's richest men against a leftist coalition dominated by former Communists. "Today we vote, Italy changes," the Carriere della Sera newspaper trumpeted Sunday as the nation began two days of voting. Pollsters and media are barred from disclosing exit poll results until voting ends Monday evening. The penalty is up to five years in prison. About 32 percent of eligible voters turned out on· Sunday. Both the centrist and pro-Catholic Christian Democrats and Socialist parties, which have led the country for four decades, fell from grace in a kickback scandal that has tainted many of the nation's political and business elite. 

Army victorious in ROTC 'Warrior Challenge' 
By DAVID OLKOWSKI News Writer 
Notre Dame cadets and mid­shipmen battled it out in the first Warrior Challenge on Sun­day afternoon between the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps ROTC units at Notre Dame. 
The event was directed un­der the Notre Dame ROTC Joint Chiefs of Staff(JCS), a first of its kind command within ROTC. It consisted of activities and exer­cises conducted by each service with a male team from each service and Army and Navy/Marine combined female teams. Each team had eight to ten participants. 
The men's Army team took overall first place in the Chal­lenge, which had competition in physical fitness, run by the Navy; weapons assembly, con­ducted by the Army; a group teamwork task, supervised by Air Force; and land navigation, directed by the Marines. 
Army C/Capt. Patrick Martin directed the overall competition as part of a new JCS program at Notre Dame, which is designed to involve coordinated operation and education between the ROTC branches. 
"The purpose of the Warrior Challenge was to get the sevices together and give them a chance to interact to develop a stronger comraderie and esprit de corps," C/Capt. Martin said. 
The competition evolved from an idea from the Army and Navy Battalion Comman­ders and Air Force Wing Com­mander. 
The project was then devel­oped by C/Capt. Martin, called a Joint Task Force Commander, who delegated individual pro­jects to a member of each ser­vice. 
One of the more visible ac­tivities was the physical train­ing (PT) competition which took place outside Stepan Center. It consisted of two minutes of push-ups, two minutes of sit­ups, pull-ups, and a three-mile run. 
The individual high score was attained by Mdn/Lt. JG Doug DeWitt, who completed 82 push-ups, 81 sit-ups, 20 pull­ups, and a 17:27 run time. This gave DeWitt an overall score of 386 out of 400. 
Second place went to C/Col Matt Brechwald with a 382, and Mdn/3C Elizabeth Cathcart came in third with a 380. 
Mdn!Lt. Joe Cronley, PT or-ganizer, said, "The unique Most participants agreed that part of the Warrior Challenge thing about the competition the first Warrior Challenge was was that I attained a better un­was the fact that it combined a huge success for all those derstanding of joint exercises the different standards and who participated. and a better appreciation of procedures for each service's Air Force team member C/1Lt how each ROTC unit conducts physical fitness tests." Sean Keene said, "the greatest its missions." 


"Reflections on Current Contentions" Tuesday, March 29 7:30PM Stepan Center $3 Students, Faculty, and Staff $5 General Public Reception to follow in the Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 
Tickets available at the LaFortune Info Desk 

love, The Kids at Dorita's Holiday Campi 
Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlsonl'ravel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 
*Airfares Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. Low airfares to Europe. 
*Rail Passes Rail Passes issued in our office! No service fee! Timetables, prices, tickets available! 
*Experience Over 20 years experience working with Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students and faculty travelling to Europe. We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus ­(219)271-4880 
Local conservatives Bomb explodes in museum 
By ZEYNEP ALEMDAR Still, heavy losses by her True In Istanbul, the explosion at
gain ground in France 
Associated Press 
Path Party and its allies could St. Sophia injured tourists from 
By ELAINE GANLEY 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
The second round of local elections on Sunday was expected to consolidate the conservatives' grip on powerful district councils and comfort the government of Premier Edouard Balladur 
After the polls closed, Balladur moved to end a cycle of often-violent street protests over his program to pay youth below sub-minimum wages, telling students he was ready for a dialogue. 
"It is my responsibility and my duty as head of government . . . to answer what is a call by youth," Balladur said on na­tional television. 
Tens of thousands of students have taken to the streets sev­eral days a week since the be­ginning of March to demand Balladur withdraw his jobs pro­gram. The premier already revised it in mid-March be­cause of the protests but that failed to quell the protests. 
Balladur's government has lost so100 of its sheen after giv­ing in on various demands to striking employees of Air France and striking fishermen. 
The election Sunday was the second round in voting for local councils. 
Interior Minister Charles Pasqua said it appeared the conservatives would increase their seats in the powerful councils, a comfort to the gov­ernment beleaguered by the student protests and unable to cap a climbing unemployment rate, now at 12.2 percent. 
The first round gave the con­servatives 44.6 percent of the vote. 
But he noted the "questions, concerns, troubled spirits" that accompanied his jobs plan for youth, which was supposed to cut the 25 percent unemploy­ment rate among the nation's youth. 
The elections were the first big test of voter sentiment since Balladur took office a year ago following a landslide victory over the Socialists. 
ANKARA, Turkey 
A bomb exploded at the famed St. Sophia museum Sunday as voters took part in local elections considered a key test of Prime Minister Tansu Ciller's ability to deal with such attacks and with economic woes. 
The bombing at the Istanbul landmark, in which three Eu­ropean tourists were injured, was the latest attack by Kurdish separatists determined to disrupt the elections. Death threats forced at least 15 can­didates to drop out of races in the Kurdish-dominated south­east, and dozens of villages boycotted the election. 
At stake were more than 83,000 local posts including mayors, provincial assembly members, city council mem­bers, village headmen and neighborhood representatives. Voters chose from 13 parties. 
The vote did not directly affect Ciller's coalition govern­ment, in power for nine months. 
increase demands for elections before her term expires in 1996. 
Early results, based on 8 per­cent of the vote, showed Ciller's party leading with 27 percent. The main opposition Mother­land ranked second with 20 percent, while the Islamic fun­damentalist Welfare Party re­ceived 18 percent, according to the state news agency, Anato­lia. Final results could take days. 
If the trend continues, it will cushion Ciller from critics who hold her responsible for the nation's deepening economic crisis, which includes rising in­flation and a 70 percent deval­uation in the Turkish lira. 
Some Turks have been forced to take second jobs to make ends meet. 
At the same time, the military has been unable to control Kurdish rebels seeking auton­omy in southeastern Turkey. 
Security forces guarded 127,000 polling stations, but failed to stop rebel-linked vio­lence. 
Spain,  Germany  and  the  
Netherlands.  
The  museum,  once  a  

Byzantine church that was turned into a mosque, is one of the country's top tourist sites. There was apparently no dam­age to the museum. 
An anonymous caller to newspapers said the attack was carried out by the Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK, which has tried to cripple Turkey's crucial tourism industry with a spree of attacks. 
In the southeast, eight people were killed Sunday by land mines believed planted by Kur­dish rebels. 
Two people died in clashes in western Turkey. 
At least 48 villages in Igdir and Tunceli provinces boy­cotted the elections. 
Large groups of foreign elec­tion observers traveled to the southeast, where the army in­creased its troop strength from 200,000 to 350,000. Observers complained Turkish authorities denied them access to various towns. 







---------------------------------,
I I 
ND German Summer Lan~uage Institute
I ND : 
June 2J ..August 3, r994 
The Notre Dame German Summer Language Institute offers an intensive summer program of
SUMMERATLOYOLA I 
courses and cultural enrichment. Earn up to 9 language credits at $130 per credit hour (!) in small, lively classes taught with imagination. The professors are experienced in offering concen­
FIRST SESSION 
trated, yet personalized instruction. Recent ND graduates benefit from a 50% reduction in
THE SUMMER SESSIONS
6 weeks beginning May 23 
Loyola University Chicago 
tuition.
SECOND SESSION 
820 North Michigan Avenue 
Learn The Language of the 90's
6 weeks beginning July 5 
Chicako, IL 60611-21%
1 Day, evening or weekend classes. 
German Feature Films/Soaps 1 Courses in Business, Arts and 
Videos/Interactive Video/ComputersNideo Discs
Sc1ences, Education, Nursing. I 
I 
Daily Tutorial in State of the Art Language Laboratory 
1 All courses are applicable to I NAME Loyola University degrees. I 
I 
Tuition Savings/Personal Attention 
I
1 Classes at Lake Shore Campus I 
Imaginative Instruction/Lively Classroom Atmosphere/Experienced Professors 
I
{Sheridan Road at Devon), Water I ADDRESS 
Classes Offered (three credits each):
Tower Campus (North Michigan I 
I Avenue), Medical Center Campus I 
I 
GE 101 Beginning German 1: first 2 1/2 weeks (3 cr.). Intensive introduction to German for stu­
(Suburban Maywood). I 
1 CITI 
dents with no or minimal background.
1 Register using any Touch-Tone I I telephone. 
I 
GE 102 Beginning German II: second 2 1/2 weeks (3 cr.). Continuation of GE I0I.
I 
: STATE ZIP 
GE 103 Beginning German Ill: third 2 1/2 weeks (3 cr.). Continuation of GE I02. 1994 Bulletin ofThe Summer I 
To receive your free copy of the 
Fulfills ND language requirement. Taught daily 9-11 a.m., tutorial at I p.m.
: Loyola is an o.:jual oppommity .ru:atoc/cmplojor ST
Sess1ons, return coupon or call 
L--------------------------------1 
GE 240 Conversational German (3 cr.). A course for students of all ages with some background in German ( 101/1 02= elementary, or equivalent). Emphasis on conversation, speaking fluency and 
8CXl·7·LOYOLA TDD: 312-508-8090 
LOYOLA 
comprehension, using interactive video discs together with accompanying textbook. Communicate effectively and appropriately in a range of common situations and for a variety of
~ ••:s UNIVERSITY 
purposes.
3: . ~ CHICAGO 
Fulfills ND language requirement. Taught T/Th, 7-9:30 p.m.
~ B
0 0 
Application forms may he obtained by writing to: Summer School Director, 312 Main Building, ~.t.t\1. \)~\.' THE TWO 6-WEEK SUMMER SESSIONS 
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556 


SUMMER CLASSES 
The Office ofMulticultural Student Affairs Proudly Presents: 
REDBUD 
Fine Art Workshops 
2 week -3 credit courses 
ACTING 
CERAMICS 
PRINTMAKING 
SCULPTURE 
MAY 16-28, 1994 
Sponsored by the Art Dept. of Saint Mary's College 
For information or application call: 
284-4655 or 284-4795 

Student forum ends 'Keeping the Faith' series 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
News Writer 
Sharing their experiences with sexuality, a panel of four 'current students and one for­mer student of Notre Dame spoke in the third and fmal in­stallment of the "Keeping the Faith" series of presentations last night in the LaFortune ball­room. 
According to the speakers, they hoped to not necessarily provide the listeners with out­right answers to questions of sexuality, but rather to provide them with guidelines so that they may come to their own resolutions. 
The presentation began with Patricia, a sophomore, who spoke about her own struggle in coming to love herself and how loving oneself is essential in intimate relationships. She said that a recent relationship 
The Observer 
needs writers for the: 
New Entertainment Magazine 
For feature stories and reviews of movies, music, books,and restaurants. Come to an organizational meeting Wednesday at 8 p.m. outside the Observer office 314 LaFortune. For more information, call Bevin Kovalik or Dave Tyler at 1-4541. 
Gather: Grotto 
I: Jesus Is Condemned to Death Steps of Architecture Building 
2: Jesus Accepts His Cross Log Chapel 
3: Jesus Falls the First Time Lyons Arch 
4: Jesus Meets His Mother Steps of South Dining Hall 
5: Simon Helps Jesus Carry the Cross Law School Side Door 
6: Veronica Wipes the Face of Jesus O'Shaughnessy at the Mestrovic Memorial 
7: Jesus Falls the Second Time Library Courtyard 8: Jesus Comforts the Weeping Women Siegfried-Knott Hill 
9: Jesus Falls the Third Time Between Pasquerllla East and West lO:Jesus Is Stripped of His Garments Front of Keenan-Stanford 
II:Jesus is Nailed to the Cross Clarke Memorial Fountain 

12:Jesus Dies on the Cross Front steps of LaFortune Student Center 13:Jesus Is Taken Down From the Cross 
(3MPUS 
Front Steps of Main Building 14:The Burial of Jesus 
MINISTRY
Inside the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Adoration of the Cross 
had presented her with an op­portunity to grow and to learn about herself and others. 
"Someone you care about not caring about you doesn't mea­sure your self-worth," she said. 
Patricia concluded by stating that she has still not found all the answers to all of her ques­tions and that, in time, she will find the answers within herself. 
Carl, a junior, began with a song he had prepared in order to illuminate his stance. Ac­cording to his song, "All who live in love live in God" and "We are Christians by our love". 
Carl had originally entered Notre Dame to begin a program with Moreau Seminary, but has recently developed a relation­ship with a fellow student. "I guess God might have other plans," he said. 
According to Carl, some of the most important things in rela­tionships are respect, honesty, and partners' not trying to change each other according to their individual desires. He said that resolutions of intimacy come from the two people in­volved in an intimate relation­ship, not from people outside of it, and that these resolutions set boundaries to guide the two people and keep them pro-
see FORUM I page 6 
Cherubini/Kramer win election 
By KARA MASUCCI 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College Residence Hall Association (RHA) held elections for the 1994-1995 officers last Friday. 
RESIDENCE HALL ASSOC. 
Two tickets ran for the posi­tions. The first ticket included Jennifer Cherubini for presi­dent, Amy Kramer for vice­president, Kathy Pilcavage for treasurer, and Danielle Burton for secretary. The other ticket included Laura Marklevitz, president; Julie Barnicle, vice-president; Ann Zielonka, trea­surer; and Ann Aubuchon, sec­retary . Cherubini's ticket won with 48.28% of the vote. Marklevitz's ticket collected 20% of the vote and 31.72% abstained. However, according to election commissioner D.eb Sheedy, voter turnout was low. 
"We tried something new this year to improve the voter turnout. We had people vote in their dorms instead of in the dinning hall, where elections are usually held. We thought that since RHA deals with stu­dents and their dorms that this would be a good idea," stated Sheedy. 
"However, since RHA is new and many people don't know about it, we had a bad turnout," Sheedy added. 
RHA is an association aimed at improving residential life, and Cherubini plans to do that. 
"Once we have meetings next 
Foik Nominations Invited 
The Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee invites nominees for the award, which is given annually to a library faculty member who has contributed significantly to library service to the Notre Dame 
community  or  to  the  library  
profession  through  personal  
scholarship  or  involvement  in  
professional  associations.  The  

award is named for the Holy Cross priest who served as director of Notre Dame's library from 1912 to 1924 and was a leading figure in the library profession in the first quarter of the 20th century. It is among those announced at the President's faculty dinner in May. Previous winners have been Maureen 
Gleason, Deputy Director, Robert Havlik, Engineering Librarian emeritus, and Joseph Huebner, Head of Collection Development. All members of the University Libraries' and Law Library faculty with two or more years' tenure are eligible. Please send names of nominees, including justification, to the Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee %Thomas A Werge, 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall, by April 15. 
New Summer Session Course Department of Theology 
Theology 290: Christianity and World Religions Professor Bradley Malkovsky Call# 0412 M-T-W-H-F, 9:10-10:10 
The purpose of this course is to introduce the student to the basic teachings and spiritualities of Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, and Islam. We will approach these religions both historically and theologically, seeking to determine where they converge and differ from Christianity on such perennial issues as death, meaning, the nature of the ultimate Mystery, the overcoming of suffering, etc. We will also examine some traditional and contemporary Catholic and Protestant approaches to religious pluralism. 
year, we would like to have a suggestion box. I think that we need to improve communica­tion with the student body and the student government in order to fulfill student needs," said Cherubini. 
Cherubini stated that she and the other officers have many new ideas that they plan to implement next year. Ideas include a food drive for the poor at Thanksgiving, inviting alumni to speak about their careers, bringing cable into the dorms, and extending perridals for sep.iors. Also, Cherubini feels it is important to get involved with the South Bend community. 
"We plan to organize volun­teering at a women's shelter. We are an all-woman college and we should create a bond 
see ELECTIONS I page 6 


London  $275*  
Paris  $293*  
Frankfurt  $293*  
Rome  $355*  
Athens  $355*  

'Fares are one Witf from Chicago based on roundtrip ptr· chase. Restrictions apply taxes <Je I'd irduded and hires are
1
subject to change. call ror ot00 =ldwide destiretions. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels magazine 
C A M P U C A N D 
W I D E L G H T 
Tuesday, March 29, 1994 
Procession begins at the Grotto at 7p.m. 
Opportunity for Confession 
to follow at approximately 10 p.m. in the Basilica 
The Observer • NEWS Monday, March 28, 1994 
they're comfortable or uncom­order to get things accom­
fortable with some of the things plished.
Foru01 Elections Explosion
they do. Scott ended by stating ''I'm excited for the future 
continued from page 5 
gressing in their love. 
Molly, a senior, shared what has helped her to grow and to foster healthy relationships. She said that she has spent time alone to get to know her­self and to discover what is and is not healthy for her. She has also observed other couples to fmd out what it is she wants to imitate and incorporate into a relationship. Molly said she has enlisted the aid of friends and family in helping to guide her decisions about intimacy. 
Scott, a senior, spoke of the period of putting off intercourse until marriage. He said that it should not just be a period of waiting but also one of dis­cernment and self-examination, a time to find out what is healthy and unhealthy in a re­lationship. 
"The more comfortable I've become with my own sexuality, that sexual expressions are not always physical, but are often expressions of caring and love and of one's self. 
The discussion ended with Jeff, a 1992 graduate of Notre Dame. He said that college had changed his perspective on male/female relationships and that he felt he hadn't known women very well at the time of his graduation. 
Jeff said he that looked upon intimacy in two different "the­aters". The first was the "Linebacker Inn, hooking-up" theater, whose goal was ran­dom, immediate intimacy, and was highly influenced by his peer group and by himself. The second theater was the serious relationship, with an ideal of more honest intimacy and more influence from his own faith and convictions. Jeff said that he is glad to have escaped the first theater and that he hopes to find a relationship based in 
continued from page 5 
with women in need," stated Cherubini. 
Despite the closing of the tra­ditionally senior Augusta Hall, Cherubini feels she will be able to fulfill her campaign promis­es. 
"We are going to implement everything that we stated dur­ing our campaign," said Cherubini. 
Sheedy feels that Cherubini will be able to improve RHA and make a difference on the campus. 
"Jen has served on the LeMans Hall Council and works really hard. RHA is what you make of it and Jen has a lot of potential," said Sheedy. 
Since Cherubini is a fresh­man this year, she will be around for three more years in because the winning ticket is young. They will be able to plan for long-term goals, not just one-year goals," stated Colette Shaw, the RHA adviser. 
"Also, [Cherubini and Kramer] will be going with me to a RHA conference in Arizona this summer where they will see that Saint Mary's has a lot potential. People think that because we are a small school we can not get things done; however, when [Cherubini and Kramer] see the broad spec­trum of schools in the nation and what they are able to accomplish, then they will know that we can do many things," added Shaw. 
The 1994-1995 officers of RHA will work to improve Saint Mary's for the students now and the students of the future. 
"We are excited, and anxious to start implementing change," stated Cherubini. 
kills R.I. trucker 
By SCOTT LINDIAW 
Associared Press 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
A gasoline tanker blew a tire and overturned Sunday, burst­ing into flames and setting the driver on fire. A man ran past a dozen onlookers to save the driver as he rolled on the ground in flames. 
The Getty Petroleum Corp. tanker was carrying 12,000 gallons of gas when it crashed about 7 a.m. at the merger of Interstates 95 and 195. state police said. 
The driver, Jack Ordner, 50, received third-degree burns over 50 percent of his body and was in critical but stable condi­tion at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center. 
the less focused I've become on the second theater. 
the physical aspect of it," he The Keeping the Faith seriessaid. 
has been given this week in Acording to Scott, one of the hopes of informing students so most important aspects of inti­they employ certain guidelines macy is honesty, with partners in coming to their own conclu­
letting each other know if 
HELP WORLD HUNGER COALITION WITH 
sions concerning sexuality. 

EASTER FOOD BASKETS! 
MONDAY, MARCH 28 AT STEPAN CENTER 
2:00-4:00 PM ASSEMBLE 4:00-7:00PM DISTRIBUTE 
For Questions, 
.. Applica 
Comments 
Transfer Orientation Chairperson are ~~w"~~~ilabl~''h{''tlie ······ ,,, .. of 
or Suggestions 
Call the 
HONOR CODE HOTLINE at 631--6859
FIVE SESSIONS WEDNESDAYS 6:00-7:30 PM MARCH 30, APRIL 6, 13, 20 & 27 OPEN TO STUDENTS & STAFF $8.00 CLASS FEE 
EQUIPMENT PROVIDED BUT BRING OWN EQUIPMENT WHEN POSSIBLE 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS FIRST CLASS TO BE HEW IN JACC ARENA 631-6100 


~~ 


__________..,.._-----·~-----~~..--~-------·~-=---~-~--....,.._.--.--------­
CAMPUSES 
Monday, March 28, 1994 page 7 
Rules, education adapted to stop abuse 
By THERESA ALEMAN NewsWrirer 
As you enter the Notre Dame Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, there is a sketch that reads, "In memory of Mara Rose Fox, November 13, 1993." As most Notre Dame students know. Fox, a fresh­man, was struck and killed the weekend of the Florida State game. by an allegedly drunk driver. 
Have students learned any­thing from this grave tragedy? This question comes to mind especially in the light of the re­cent St. Patrick's Day S.U.D.S. raid, arrests, and confiscation of kegs of beer at Lafayette Square. Is drinking a neces­sary rite of passage at Notre Dame? 
"Drinking at Notre Dame is an accepted practice and is considered to be a part of the 'Notre Dame Tradition.' Students drink because it is part of the culture here..." This statement serves as the opening sentence for· a brochure published in 1987 by the University Counseling Center. 
Obviously, drinking occurs at Notre Dame and among Notre Dame students. But what about "serious" drugs like cocaine or marijuana? 
Mark Pogue, coordinator of the office of Alcohol and Drug Education, reports, "We get very few people in here with drug abuse problems. We probably had three or four people last semester with marijuana problems and no people in for cocaine or other drug problems. About the only reason we've seen people with these types of problems is be­cause they were in some kind of trouble with the court." 
"The vast majority of people who come here for evaluation or to seek counseling are here for alcohol abuse and are here by referral from residence life officials or rectors," said Pogue. 
As for university policy re­
garding drugs, alcohol, and 
smoking, it has evolved over 
the years in part because of 
problems, but mostly because 
of the evolution of litigation 
practices. All rules must be 
very clearly discussed in order 
to avoid any confusion or 
misinterpretation that could 
lead to legal problems. 
The 1993-1994 duLac now 
contains a seven page state­
ment of the university's alcohol 
policy and regulations, a four 
page discussion of driving un­
der the influence of alcohol 
and drugs, and a two page 
statement of smoking policy. 
To insure that students under­
stand the rules, freshmen are 
required to attend discussions 
on drug and alcohol policies at 
Notre Dame upon enrollment 
at the university. 
Campus abuse policies vary across nation 
By ZOE MARIN 
Assistant Campuses Editor 
At the University of Northern Colorado at Greeley, alcohol policies closely resemble Notre Dame's. If a student is of legal age, alcohol can be consumed, carried, and kept in the resi­dence halls. 
However, if a student under 21 is suspected to even possess alcohol, an R.A. or resident hall security guard has the right to search the room, confiscate, and cite the student. The stu­dent then must devote eight hours of their weekend to a special drug and alcohol class that involves films and discus­sions with counselors. 
For a second offense with al­cohol, the student must again attend this class and volunteer for campus services, such as picking up garbage on campus or participating in hall council. A third time offender is turned over to the Greeley Police and usually ends in a legal citation of alcohol possession. 
As far as the smoking policy, there are no "non-smoking" dorms or floors, rather it is handled from room to room. Students can request smoking roommates or ask non-smoking roommates for written consent, but some smokers prefer not to smoke in their rooms. 
On the other hand, the drug policy at UNC is much more re-
Elsewhere: Substance policies at a glance 
By DAVE TYLER 
Assistant News Editor 
University of Texas 
Alcohol Policy : Students un­der the age of twenty-one are not allowed to possess alcohol, in accordance with state law. 
Students over the age of twenty-one are permitted to consume alcohol in non-public areas, such as their dorm rooms. The consumption of alcohol in common or public areas, is prohibited. Alcohol may be served at parties, as long as the attendees are of age. 
-Failure to comply with this policy can result in legal action by the state and disciplinary action by the university. Ac­cording to Doug James, uni­versity director of housing and student life, each case is evalu­ated individually by his office. The first penalty for a violation is usually a fine and probation. Subsequent offenses will be cause for dismissal from the 
BRIEFS 
Free speech argued at N.C. State 
After four students at North Carolina State painted anti-gay statements over an ad­vertisement for Gay and Lesbian Awareness Week in the campus' "Free Expression Tunnel," a debate has arisen about whether or not the controversial remarks were a matter of free speech or vandalism. The tunnel is paint­ed with often controversial opinions expressed by students, yet campus police arrested the 

;i?--77 
¥% 
~;,-_"h t1~ 
laxed than at Notre Dame. A first offense is handled much like first offense for alcohol, with required attendance at a drug and alcohol class. A sec­ond offense is usually turned over to the police and the stu­dent is no longer allowed to live in the residence halls. 
According to sophomore Jen Zidon, drugs are easily accessi­ble on campus, "All you have to do is ask anyone, I mean any­one, and they'll point you in the right direction." 
Zidon also mentioned that she knew of three "dealers" in her dorm alone. Zidon noted that at a recent bust, the police carried crates of drugs and parapher­nalia from a dealer's room fol­lowing a two hour search. 
"If they suspect drug activity 
university. 
Drug Policy: The university has a "zero tolerance" attitude towards illegal substances, said James. Any student found using substances on university prop­erty can be expelled from the university and referred to local authorities. 
Smoking Policy: UT is a smoke-free institution. Smoking is not allowed in any buildings or complexes, including stadi­ums, classrooms, and lounges. 
Boston University 
Alcohol Policy: Underage drinking is not tolerated at BU. Students found to be in viola­tion of this policy face a three hundred dollar fine from the state of Massachusetts and a (ine and probation from the university. 
Of age students face severe restrictions on their consump­tion of alcohol. While drinking is tolerated by the university, the transport of alcohol is not. Any student found in possession 
students responsible for the anti-gay slogans, charging them with vandalism and ordering them to go to court. The administration withdrew the charges. as the students did not violate any campus rules, and students quickly painted over the controversial remarks. 
E. Michigan kisses and makes up 
In an effort to encourage con­flict resolution among students, Eastern Michigan University sponsored a "Kiss and Make Up 
of any sort, they tap into the phone systems of those sus­pected and listen for evidence that they're involved in some­thing," said Zidon. 
This lax drug policy has had its side effects. Drugs can not only cause a students grades to slip, but can eventually cause a student to drop out. 
"I know of ten people that have dropped out because of drug use," Zidon said. 
The alcohol and smoking poli­cies aren't much different at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. Some resident halls don't allow any alcohol, even for those over 21, while other dorms can hold a public vote among the those of legal age as to whether or not alcohol can be consumed in the lounges 
of more than 72 ounces of alco­hol (roughly a six-pack) any­where beyond the walls of his or her dorm room is subject to a university fine. 
Drug Policy: Any student caught using illegal drugs on the campus of Boston University faces a disciplinary hearing that usually results in the student's dismissal from the school. 
Smoking Policy: Smoking is permitted at BU, and students are divided by room into smok­ers and non-smokers. 
Washington University 
Alcohol Policy : This St. Louis school has an extremely liberal policy. ''I've seen students drink in class," said sophomore Mark Klapow. Enforcement is very lax at best. "Resident Assistants are very open, and as long as' no one creates any problems, very few citations are even written up, " said Klapow. Drinking is even an integral part of student government­sponsored events. The SG spon-
Week" during which students distributed Hershey's Kisses to students with whom they were not getting along. So far, it is unknown what kind of effect the unusual effort has had. 
Black sit-in at LeMoyne College 
Charging that the media had wrongly accused black students for a recent attack on the presi­dent of student government, 50 students staged an overnight sit-in at LeMoyne College in Syracuse. Megan Bigelow, stu­and in the hallways. 
Smoking is allowed in every residence hall and every room, with roommate consent. How­ever, substance-free floors do exist in some of the dorms, in­sured with a signed contract from each resident. 
Drugs aren't strictly enforced in dorms. "There was a woman down the hall that was caught three times smoking pot in her room, but she just got warn­ings," said Celeste Richmond, a sophomore at U of M. 
Michigan's biggest drug cele­bration is coming up this Easter weekend and goes by the title of "Hash Bash." It consists of a rally on the campus with guest speakers from NORML, a national organization for the legalization of marijuana. 
Even if someone does get caught smoking marijuana by authorities, they are fined $25. "The smoking pot fine used to be $5, but they just recently raised it," Richmond said. 
After the rally, the partici­pants of Hash Bash migrate to a nearby park to listen to re­gional bands. 
After freshman year. about 90% of the students move off campus, leaving discipline to the local police. Most parties are broken up for violation of the noise ordinance, but rarely is action taken towards under­age drinking or drug use. 
sors happy hours and keg par­ties monthly. Klapow thinks this open attitude about alcohol may help limit problems. "No one here drinks to break the rules or see if they can vomit in the elevator. They just drink to relax and have a good time," he said. 
Drug Policy: Washington University perceives drug offenses as troubling not only to a community, but to the person involved as well. Instead of remanding the offender to cus­tody, Washington has a rehabil­itation program that helps users overcome any problems they might have. This policy has helped keep drug abuse to a minimum, said Klapow. 
Smoking Policy: Washington University is in the process of becoming a smoke free campus. Students can choose to live on smoke free floors, and the uni­versity still maintains several smoking areas and lounges throughout campus. Full adop­tion of the smoke-free stance is not expected for several years. 
dent body president who had refused a proposal to increase the representation of minorities in student government, claimed that she was attacked by a black man while riding in a dormitory elevator. Administrators agreed to review policies on publicizing crimes and continue in­vestigating the incident, as stu­dents agreed to end the sit-in. 
-Information from the Chronicle of Higher Education 
-~----------------~---~---~--~-·---­
VIEWPOINT 
I 
I 
t page 8 Monday, March 28, 1994
l 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor....... : ....................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ....•......•...•...•.•....••......... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is rbe independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either instimtion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi~ torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rbe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­municy and w all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students reflect during Sexual Assault Awareness Week 
Dear Editor: at Notre Dame reflect many hope to provide a comfortable 
This letter is in response to problems present in society. environment for men and Kelly O'Neil's "Society ... the Because it is unlikely we can women to share and explore. real reason for the gender change all of society during If men and women here learn gap" (Inside Column March our time at Notre Dame, I am more about each other and 15, 1994). I would like to reit­interested in concentrating on open the lines of communica­erate Ms. O'Neil's points the problems at Notre Dame, tion, we might be able to solve about strained gender rela­keeping in mind the effects of some of the gender problems tions, society, and Notre Dame society. One way I propose to at Notre Dame. and to offer a step towards a do this is through the upcom­I invite everyone interested solution. ing Gender Relations in improving gender relations 
We have all heard or said Workshop on March 26. at Notre Dame to sign up for "Dating here stinks," "Notre This workshop has been this workshop at the Women's Dame men are... ," or "Notre planned by members of the Resource Center, located in Dame women don't... " many Gender Relations Committee the Student Government times. Many students are not for the purpose of increasing Office. Although it will not satisfied with gender relations understanding and communi­solve all of the gender prob­at Notre Dame. Where do cation between men and lems, we hope to start the ball these problems come from women at Notre Dame. It will rolling towards a better rela­and how can we improve the involve interesting and tionship between the men and situation? I agree with Ms. provocative presentations and women of Notre Dame. O'Neil that gender problems discussions about gender rela­do not exist at Notre Dame tions in society and at Notre SARAH KAHLER alone. The strained relations Dame. Open and relaxed, we Gender Relations Committee 

Goodbye 
I told you not to worry; I said I would say "goodbye." I feel I owe you that after all that you've done for me. I owe you at least a goodbye. 
Goodbye to the pain, Goodbye to the nightmares, Goodbye to the insecurities that paralyze my emotions and fuel my apathy. 
Goodbye to the shame Goodbye to the guilt Goodbye to depriving myself happiness because I don't feel worthy of it. 
I told you I would say goodbye. Now that I've said goodbye I can say I love you, and I could never leave you. 
ANONYMOUS 
ONESBURY 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
\ A 5TRATeGY ;s eom. 
l 
Y&S,SIR,

''The pain of the mind is 
COVeR UP 
JU5T70 
worse than the pain of the body." 
-Cyrus Publius 
Monday, March 28, 1994 page 9 
VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ND and SMC are not exempt from rape 
It Happens to the Best of Us
Dear Editor, I decided to go through the 
This is not a dramatic recount University system which was of the rape which I endured, difficult for me because the although every incident and ev­person was a former friend, ery individual has one to tell, and I had just wanted to put it and mine is no exception. behind me. Student Affairs was However, that is not the pur­very confidential and for the pose of this letter, it is informa­most part kept me as informed tive not explanatory. I hope and as possible while protecting his pray that you will never need to rights, which was frustrating make use of the information I for me, but a necessary evil. am passing onto you, yet I also I did not know at the time of wish we lived in a world that 1 the rape (which occurred after out of every 4 women is not parietals) that I would not be sexually assaulted in her life­found responsible for breaking time. My only desire is that duLac, (under the circum­women on our campuses can stances) although I willingly learn from my experiences and broke parietals. I am in no way hopefully the pain that I en­advocating violating duLac but I dured, and millions of other feel that women should know women as well. can be avoided that in those circumstances you more often in the future. CAN scream and you won't be 
First I would like to clear up "busted" for a duLac violation. I 
many of the misconceptions re­did not know that at the time garding Student Affairs. and everyday live with the re­Eventually I mustered up the gret that regardless the conse­courage to bring the issue to quences I didn't scream until Student Affairs, about a month his ears bled. after the incident. I had gone to The office of Residence Life the hospital and had records, can tell you more about the etc. However, that was not my process itself if the occasion intention when I went to the should arise. I can assure you hospital. I was concerned about that it is completely confidential my physical state and was very · and if at any point you can't careful that no police reports, make it through it, they are etc. were made. Because I felt sensitive to that and will not 
that other women were at risk, push the issue. I can also attest that the process is not easy and it is at times very frustrating for the victim. I had to place my trust in four strangers at a time when my faith in people had been shattered. However, they take the matter very seriously and approach it with the utmost professionalism. 
I would also like to extend my appreciation and once again my faith in the confidentiality and professionalism of our Security Dept. They're not just about giving tickets and sitting at the gates. The University Counseling Center, as well, is here to help you in any way. Many people have worked very hard to change the way Notre Dame deals with rape victims and the wake of the trauma. Take advantage of these ser­vices. 
I wish I never had to know about counseling centers and support groups, etc. but I've unfortunately learned about these beneficial services through an awful experience. I hope no woman has to endure what thousands do every year, but the reality is that it hap­pens, and my only hope for you is that my experience may edu­cate others. 
ANONYMOUS 

can't breathe....darkness, darkness rushes around me. darkness, I can't see, oh God, oh God, please 
God!... unconsciousness. 
I stand before the mirror, staring at the image of a physician behind my own figure's daunted, emaciated reflection. 
'~ut up, bitch! Stop strug­~gling! I'm doing this because /love you.' 
"Your intestines have taken an incredi­ble battering and your genitalia have been profoundly ripped-especially because you were a virgin. Most likely you'll have bladder problems for many years. You have been infected with a venereal disease and another significant infection so that you'll be on medication for a year. Your AIDS test was negative, but you never know. Test again in three and six months. " My body is contami­nated and sick. My mind is depressed 
and suicidal. My soul is slaughtered.  
I stand before the mirror and 1 see the  
image of a woman with thin, wispy hair,  
pale skin, dulled eyes. The image of the  
slender psychiatrist stands behind my  
own. Nightmares. Chills. Terrors. "The  
wounds are deep. Depression is natural.  
You have no reason to feel guilty. IT'S  
NOT YOUR FAULT.• Trust. Is there such  
a thing? No. I will never be able to trust  
another male again. Struggle! Fight!  
Anger! Trust? It is a lie.  
I stand before the mirror, and see the  
image of a woman with glossy flowing  
hair. glowing skin, radiant smile. I walk with confidence, laugh with sincerity,  ...  
enjoy the timid fragrance of my soul that  
only ventures to blossom three years  
later. Swirling Swirling Swirling is the  
laughter of the devil Swirling Swirling  
Swirling. I stand before you. You see the image  ......  
of a survivor.  
ANONYMOUS  
Senior  

Dear Editor: 
I stand before the mirror, glaring at the foul creature that I see reflected in the glass. Oh how I hate her! I see hair of crawling worms; skin that is dirty, crusted, and contaminated; teeth stained with blood; and dark glossed eyes that are hollow and haunted! Alas, I know not who I am, for before me stands the image of a shattered soul housed in a broken, bleeding body, one once vibrant with energy and life, now violated because of a man's hatred, vio­lence, and power. 
"Come over to my apartment tomor­row. I'll make you dinner. and we can discuss the details for our project over dinner and then actually work on it afterward ... " 
Words haunt my mind. Trust. Naivete. Honor. A statistic. 
"You look really ill... maybe my chili was too hot for you." Yes. I do feel very nauseous. "I tell you what. why don't you lie down on my bed for a while; I'll clean up. and if you don't feel better 
after I'm done. I'll take you home and we can work on the project another time. " How thoughtful! Yes. I will lie down and rest. Oh, I feel so terrible. Perhaps ifl try to sleep a bit..sleeeep... 

What is this? -to open my ~yes to see two dark, flashing eyes maliciously star­ing into my own. I can't breathe, he's on top of me pressing on my body. What is he doing? His hands are groping, tear­ing. No, no. this can't be. Please, God, no, not me! Not this! Please no! 
"Shut up. bitch! Stop struggling! I'm doing this because I love you." NO! NO! PLEASE DON'T! OH GOD HAVE MERCY! PLEASE DON'T! "You won't shut up. I'll make you shut up!" Suffocation, he is too heavy. I can t breathe. Blows. Bashing. Nails. Ripping. Tearing. I taste the blood in my mouth and from my nose. 
My head is numb from his ripping out my hair. Swirling Swirling Swirling is the devil's laughter Swirling Swirling Swirling. I can't breathe. The cacophony of the world screams in my ears. Oh God, please let me live; just let me live. I 
I had just gotten mugged. 
In a cab. At knifepoint. In a foreign country. In a foreign language. 
They took my money. They took my keys. 
They took my watch. They took my class ring. 
They took my pride. 
They took my trust. 
They took my independence. 
I'll protect you, he said. 
Proctect me?! 
You can't protect me like that Yes. Don't you know what happened to me tonight? I thought you were going to help me. Nothing's free. 
Now I am here at ND. You don't know who I am. But I'm here. I could be your best friend, maybe your roomate. I might be in your class or live in your dorm. YoU: may never know who I am. 
But I will never be the same. 
A couple of minutes and my life is completely trans­formed. I will be around you but you won't know it's me. Soon I will leave, but some­one will replace me. It happens to the best of us. ANONYMOUS 
What Rape Is 
There are some very mistaken conceptions about what rape is. Rape is not always a one time event. Date rape is not always done by someone the victim barely knows. Rape victims are not sluts who are just asking for it. I \las repeatedly raped by my high school boyfriend for over a year. I thought I was in love and this was how I was supposed to be treated. 
He was my first experience and, yes, I was very naive not to see what was happening. I eventually lost myself to him. I became dependent on his identity that I lost my own. I finally got out of the relationship, but I was so broken down and vulnerable that I jumped into a series of worse relationships than the frrst. I was lucky to have close friends who helped me break the vicious circle of broken relationships that rape creates. I began to stand on my own and, eventually, gained enough courage to seek professional help through counseling. 
Rape may be a one time event or it may be torture that the vic­tim is forced to endure over and over. Rape can be committed by a friend, relative, acquaintance, boyfriend, or husband. Rape is committed by anyone who proceeds with a sexual act without per­mission no matter how long or in what context they have know the victim. Rape victims are women like me who are just trying to live out their lives the best way they know how. Rape is the worst form of robbery there is. It robbed me of things that can never be replaced, my innocence, my trust in others, and my sense of secu­rity. 
ANONYMOUS 
Thank You to a Friend 
Thank you ... For trying to make it all bet­
For seeing through my ter. For loving me in all my 
facade moods.
For bringing me up after For giving me a stronghe'd knocked me down. 
shoulder to lean on. 
For trying to shield me from 
For being honest. the hurt that he caused. For making the rough times 
For listening to my story. a little smoother. 
For not judging me. For allowing me to be 
For teaching me how to feel myself. again. For showing me that I For showing me the tender­deserve to be loved. ness of love. For being yourself. 
ANONYMOUS 
'­
ACCE-NT 
page 10 Monday, March 28, 1994 

By CAROLYN WILKENS Accent Writer 
W
ith swinging hips and a tilt­ed chin he struts down the walkway. The form fitted black vest molded to his chest nicely accents the corded muscles which line his biceps. He's reached the end of the runway and it's time to turn back, but just before swiveling around to go, he purposely hesitates, and as a delib!lrate afterthought, touches two fingers gently to his lips and offers a kiss to the crowd. Girls in the crowd sigh audibly as he saun­ters away in the wake of a lingering smile. · 
Welcome to the 18th Annual Fashion Show where attitude is the name of the game. "We want to edu­cate you with fashion, " the announc­er croons to the crowd. 
The audience, made up mostly of students. listen and observe with the attentiveness many professors would Jove to see in their own classes. In a flash of splashy coloring, the models, both female and male, African­American, Caucasian, Asian, and Hispanic, take to the runway to show off the season's newest fashions, while supporting a good cause. 
The purpose of the fashion show is to raise money for the Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund to help two African-American students pay for school books next year. The Notre Dame black student coalition 
.... 
groups NAACP, AASA, MEC, LBBS and BA. sponsored the event and stores in the South Bend area donat­ed the clothing for the show. Iris Outlaw, director of Multicultural Student Affairs, was particularly impressed by the diversity of the crowd this year, as this was the first time different nationalities along with African-Americans were asked to participate. 
The show highlighted Chicago designer Time Bolhar, who exhibited his own line of LaBolh's Designs, fea­turing men's clothing flared with bright, bold colored, double breasted suits, and multi-print silk shirts. Fashion designer Fuddie Lewis pre­sented his line of women's clothing as well, with a special line of eye-catch­ing red dresses. 
The hours of practice finally paid off as the models strutted their stuff with a sharpness that defined the clothes that they wore. "You can see everyone's personalities reflected in the way they carry themselves on stage," commented model Derrick Fluhme, "Some people who are quiet and shy are smooth which is fine. Those who are more bold will make eye contact." 
As the models work the runway in outfits intended only for toned limbs, their choreographed motions and expressions blend together to create a perfect, polished effect. A model casually strikes a pose as he adjusts his cuff, another accentuates her black, backless evening dress with a swift turn. "Giving you looks that are to be looked at , but not looked over," the announcer tells the crowd as a model shows ofT a multi-printed suit, awash in glowing purples, oranges and greens. 
Behind stage the atmosphere remains relaxed and laid back. The female models check each other to make sure no tags are sticking out of their borrowed clothing. In prepara­tion for their next shirtless scenes, male models including Notre Dame football players Kevin Pendergast, Jeff Burris and Travis Davis, cover themselves with baby oil in a final attempt to enhance their sculpted bodies before strutting down the run­way one more time. Former Notre Dame football player Tom Carter returned to participate in the show, modeling a red LaBolh vest. 
For the past nine weeks, the models practiced with the help of a profes­sional model and show choreograph­er Angela Jackson to perfect the show. All their efforts finally paid off Saturday at the JACC when the actual fashion show took place. 
"I thought everything was very entertaining. Aisha [Sexton] was excellent. The girl was smooth. She looked great in everything she came out in." commented freshman Deena Lewis. 
"I enjoyed the fashions because I kept thinking how they would look on me, " commented sophomore Alex Montoya. Montoya continued with, "The models were elegant and looked very professional. I do think though that they could have cut it down by an hour." 
Despite the hour and a half over­run, the show was a success even to those who couldn't find seats and had to stand. "The show was definitely a success, " said student coordinator Chanza Baytop, a former model for the show, "It's possible that with the proceeds we may even help more than two students." 
MEDICAL MINUTE 
Awareness 
of Sexually 
Transmitted Diseases 
By Ryan Grabow N.R.E.M.T. 
Resulting from the large numbers of students who responded to the past article about Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD), illustrates that this topic is of extreme interest to the Notre Dame student body. 
Testing for STD is recommended for anyone practicing "high risk" activities including oral, anal, or vaginal intercourse, needle-sharing, or other activities that involve the direct exchange of bodily fluids, such as contacting open sores with the skin. However, some viruses like the Human Immundeficiency Virus (IIIV). that which causes AIDS, has been proven to be transmitted only through the exchange of blood and semen. Medical experts believe that the exchange of saliva is unlikely to be important in the ~ransmission of HIV, and that the risk of "wet kissing" is unknown. 
The use of condoms during intercourse reduces the risk of STD transmission, but since the condom may break or fall off, a certain degree of risk is still present. Currently. the only 100% effective means of preventing STD is abstinence. 
The range of "no risk" activities is wide, depending upon the specific STD in question. Social contact such as shaking hands. embrac­ing, "dry" kissing, petting, sharing utensils, giv­ing blood, and using public toilets are consid­ered to be of "no risk" in transmitting STD. 
There do exist exceptions to these "no risk" activities. for instance sharing utensils with an oral herpes sufferer. Catching an STD from a toilet seat would be a rare but not an impossible occurrence, since the microorganisms that cause many STD can remain alive for some time in the bodily fluids on a toilet seat. Wiping off the seat would most likely eliminate the pos­sibility of STD transmission, because in order for the STD to enter the body, the fluid which contains the microorganisms must come in con­tact with the mucous membranes or the anus or vagina. 
Due to the wide variety of STD. there are a host of signs and symptoms that may indicate the presence of an infection: mild to severe burning upon urination, discharge from one's genitals, presence of flat or cauliflower shaped warts in the genital or facial region, flu-like symptoms. fever, headache, swollen glands, pelvic pain, rashes, and genital inflammation. Some of the signs and symptoms are specific to certain STDs, while others are more general in scope. 
For many diseases, women are less likely to suffer the symptoms than men, and often times display no external symptoms at all. Thus, it is especially important for women to have regular gynecological exams if they are sexually active. 
Many of the signs and symptoms of STD have non-sexual related causes, thus only medical testing can identify the real cause. Hence, if any of the symptoms occur after engaging in a high risk activity, medical testing should be sought as soon as possible. 
Here at Notre Dame, the University Health Services performs private testing for all STD. including HIV. Simply call and make an appoint­ment, giving a first name only, with one of the doctors. 
Students pay only for the lab work, ranging from 15-35 dollars, and any possible medica­tions needed, therefore the cost of precaution is considerably less than at an outside hospital. All bills can be paid in cash to insure the anonymity of the patient, and by law parents cannot be notified by the University Health Services of the results. 
Most STD can successfully be treated if detect­
ed early. So, Stay Healthy by being Careful! 
------~-------------------~----------~--------~----~-----­
Monday, March 28, 1994 ACC~NT page 11 
NAZZ '94: A diverse music extravaganza 
By JUSTIN COLE 
Music Critic 
On Friday night musicians and fans alike gathered in Stepan Center to answer the clarion call for band unity... Nazz '94. 
This battle of the bands was to be the campus music event of the year, where 23 of Notre Dame's most talented bands would come together and dis­play the talent and diversity that campus music had to offer, and this quasi music critic was ready to take in all six hours of this extravaganza. 
Despite the noticeable ab­sence of four of the campus' more well known bands: Victoria's Real Secret, George and the Freeks, Sabor Latino, and Candy Flip, I was more than eager to take a deep breath and dive into the six hours of musical stew that was to follow. 
6:10 -Running a little late, I flew into Stepan Center lament­ing that I might have missed even a minute of music, but like all large events it was run­ning later than I was. A quick check of the judges revealed a mixed group of faculty and stu­dents that encompassed a wide spectrum of tastes if not knowl­edge. It looked as if the evenings winner would be com­pletely up for grabs. 
6:25 -The first band of the evening was Check Engine. The combination of punk icon Joe Cannon in a blue mechan­ic's jump suit and the bands high octane mix of bluesy jazz instrumental and crazy greasy punk set the tone for the rest of the night. .. anything goes. 
6:50 -After a slight mix up that saw Spinning Jenny bumped to a later time slot, the freshman band Sleight of Hand was ready to rock. Their Blues Traveler-esque brand of rock and roll showed that they are a band with potential and that with time they will be a sound to be reckoned with. 
7:05 -Up next were the secu­lar Sunday massers Kevin & Matt. The highlight of their acoustic folk rock set was a cover of "Jack and Diane," by John Mellencamp. 
7:20-James Kennedy's open­ing monologue covering the his­tory of Comeuppance revealed the shocking fact that the bands lead singer, Kate Connell, was actually a remotely controlled replica. If this was the case it was by no means a detriment to their set which was a brilliant fifteen minutes of bouncy, crunchy K pop. Their beauti­fully simple melodies and pow­erfully seductive vocals make me think that these youngsters are definitely the wellsprings of kool youth rock; so, "If you see them tell them where they've been." 
7:40 -The next act Pulse was a far cry from their obvious Depeche Mode influence. This quartet of keyboards and vocals did a cover of "Bizzare Love Triangle," a Notre Dame fa­vorite, and other numbers that were difficult to distinguish as originals or further attempts to be New Order. I Just Can't Get Enough of Pulse. 
8:00 -The next band to play was Trash the Craven whose 
Judges' Pick: RoadApples 

The Observer/JusUn Cole 
driving guitar rock seemed slightly reminiscent of a certain northwestern city's sound. By the time the band was halfway through one of it's originals, "Drift," I found myself tapping my foot and enjoying myself. Their entirely original set had a slight "grunge" flavor but all in all it was not a bad meal. 
8:15 -From the embers of Access Denied and Disfunktion rose the phoenix of Access Defunkt. A stage full of per­formers, including back-up singers, was ready to transform Stepan Center into that swing­ing 80's nightclub atmosphere. Their set seemed to be right off of Sting's "Bring on the Night," and as they produced fifteen minutes of infectious jazzy pop I almost felt like dancing... al­most. 
8:30 -After a two hour respite Joe Cannon was back on stage. This time in a suit and this time playing bass for Spoonfed. Their well construct­ed slamming pop-punk was slightly reminiscent of Jawbreaker and was most pleasing for the soul. 
8:45 -Just as True North be­gan to play the bus from St. Joe High School pulled into Stepan Center and the horde of teenage hipsters flocked to wor­ship their teenage guitar hero Mike Nolan. The True North set was a delightful con­struction of straight forward rock and roll that sure made the kids happy. Their ever pop­ular original, "September," was met with raucous approval from the gathered crowd. All I know is that you have got to love a band with a flute player. 
9:05 -The acoustic folksy sound of Tabula Rasa was .. . well. . . it was considerably quieter than most of the other bands. 
9:30 -Next on stage were the teen dream popsters that make you want to groove, the RoadApples. Their set of solid originals, which included the smash hit "West Virginia Girl," was in the vein of the classic modern rockers Material Issue with even a hint of rockabilly. The high school hipster crowd which came to see True North found themselves also drawn to this bands hypnotic groove and soon the whole crowd was rockin' to the beat. 
9:45 -I must admit that I fmd the genre of country music par­ticularly distasteful but the solo renderings of Michael McGlinn were so solid that they won my respect. His songs were heart­felt and from the soul and suc­ceeded in winning over even the coldest members of the onlookers. 
10:00 -The hour of truth was at hand, the moment I had been waiting for. . . July took the stage and treated the Stepan Center to fifteen of the most amazing minutes of music it has ever seen. Their tight punk-pop sound powered by Kate Babka's PJ Havey-esque vocals whipped the crowed into a fervored pitch. By their last song, the driving masterpiece "Canvas," the assembled crowd of dancing fans reached such a frenzy they almost gave Notre Dame its first true moshing ex­perience. 
10:15 -Pinch Point attempted to build on the energy that July had created but the crowd was too tired to keep up with their hardcore cram-it-down-your­throat punk sound. They were so loud they could have knocked over many a large­hooved animal and I think that may have knocked some of the tamer members of the audience right out of the Stepan Center. For those who like it loud this was loud and beautiful. 
10:30 -What was scheduled to be the duo m(Slope) turned into a solo effort by Wings but the result was the same, a very funny and honest expression of what he finds important at Notre Dame, beer and women. 
10:45 -Brian Muller made his Notre Dame return with the new band Cripe Street which before the night started was unknown to many of the gath­ered crowd but who by the end of their set had won over many new fans to their quirky brand of guitar pop. Their all original set even included a song with a slight Irish Jig undertone to it that got the student body danc­ing and dreaming of green fields of clover. 
11:00 -The music of emiLy is not for the faint of heart and this night was no different. Their tight and powerful punk sound resounded throughout Stepan Center and was met with mixed emotions. Those who enjoy a hard and loud sound realized that they were experiencing a rare treat but those with delicate ears must have had quite a different reac­tion. 
11:15 -I had often wondered exactly who Sunshine Wine were and tonight I had the op­portunity to find out --some things are better left a mystery. They were straight forward frat rockers that suffered from the delusion that they had some­how tapped into the spirit of Jerry Garcia. 
11:30 -Spinning Jenny was rock and roll with a full sound. They were not great, they were not bad, they simply played the music that goes along with sex and drugs. 
11:45 -True to their name­sake the Road Runner (and some other stuff that I don't presently recall) was a lot of cartoon fun. Despite having a full set of covers, their groovy horn section gave a unique spice to what could have been another boring cover band. Their rendition of "Walking on Sunshine" had the brave souls who had made it this far into the evening get up and dance like there was no tomorrow. 
12:00 -For the fans left who's appetite for that oh-so hip StonePearlDanzig-Sabbath sound had not been filled, Katharsis was the answer to their suppertime prayers. They opened with a cover of "Plush" which in all honesty threw me into a fit of convulsions of ecstasy. The remainder of their set was composed of two origi­nals and a Black Sabbath trib­ute. 
12:15 -By this time it was actually more like 1:30 and I had traveled a path that had led me to peaks of joy and val­leys of anguish. I fear at this late hour my tolerance had waned and my open-mind was groggy with exhaustion, and so, the one last hurdle that lay before me seemed almost insurmountable. XYZ Affair played their hit "Peter Pan Syndrome" and three other originals to a thinning crowd and eight very tired judges. 
1:45 -After six hours of musi­cians pouring their hearts and souls out on stage through amps and PA's , it was now up to the judges. All told, each band knew the judges' decision would be final for the prizes but the question would still remain who was the best band on cam­pus. The judges' decisions were swift in coming and re­flected their overall conserva­tive taste in music. Third place 
· went to Access Defunct, second place to Michael McGlinn and first place to the RoadApples. My mind was too numb at this point to raise much of a protest to their decision, although my top three would have been dif­ferent (3.Comeuppance 2.Cripe Street 1. July). However, I was not a judge... I was just an observer like so many others who had gathered at Stepan Center for this night of musical bliss. Fortunately, however, I am also a quasi mu­sic critic who gets to write his humble opinion in the newspa­per. 
--~------~-­
page 12 The Observer • FINAL FOUR Monday, March 28, 1994 
• • .And then there were four 
Florida's 3-pdint flurry ends B.C.'s improbable journey 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Craig Brown's flurry of 3-pointers provided an appropriate path to the Final Four for the Florida Gators. The longshots won with long shots. 
Brown hit 3-pointers on three consecutive possessions to break open a close game Sunday, and unheralded Florida won the East Regional by beating Boston College 74-66. 
The Gators (29-7) earned their first trip to the Final Four. Coach Lon Kruger's team will play Southeast Regional champion Duke (27 -5) in Saturday's national semifmals at Charlotte, N.C. 
"We feel great about our opportunity," said Brown, who scored 21 points and was named the regional's outstanding player. "After we cut down one net, we got in the locker room, and coach told us we forgot to cut down the other net. I told him, 'Hey, we're new at this."' 
Boston College, which at No. 9 was the lowest seed remaining in the tournament, finished 23-11. 
"It's been a lot of fun getting here, but coming so far and being so close, it's going to hurt," said Bill Curley, who scored 20 points for the Eagles. 
Southeastern Conference co-champion Florida entered the regional as the No. 3 seed but was still lightly regarded, in part because of the program's lackluster past. The Gators had made only three previous NCAA tournament appearances and were 7-21 just four years ago. 
Losses by Connecticut, North Carolina and Indiana helped clear the way for Florida in the regional. 
"These players have not been distracted at all by the low expectations," Kruger said. "We've read the papers and seen that everyone has played badly against us. We appreciate that. Today, we won a game." 
The catalyst was Brown, the only senior in Florida's starting lineup. His big baskets turned a 56-53 deficit into a 62-56 lead with 3:50 remaining. The turnaround marked the 15th and final lead change. 
"Craig hit big-time shots," Kruger said. "They weren't easy shots. BC guarded it pretty well, but he stepped up and hit them like a big-time player does." 
Boston College coach Jim O'Brien said Brown's 3-point­
1994 NCAA !\tEN'S llASK.ETilALLCHAMPIONSHlP 
SHOWDOWN IN CHARLOTTE 
(2) Arizona  National Championship  (3)Fiorida  
Charlotte, N.C. Apri14  
CHAMPIONSHIP GAME  
Charlotte, N.C. April2  Charlotte, N.C. Aprll2  

(1) Arkansas 

ers made the difference. 
"I thought we guarded him pretty well," O'Brien said. "He took the ball coming away from the basket, turned around and took the shots. Defensively, you don't mind if he takes shots like that. But give him credit -he stepped up and hit them." 
Boston College squandered chances to close the deficit. The Eagles missed four free throws in the final 3:24 and committed three turnovers in the last minute. 
Florida has always been a football state, and it took awhile for fans to catch basketball fever. The Gators played 14 games before their first sellout at home. But on Sunday, Florida had a partisan crowd roaring with every basket. 
"We're trying to build a foundation for years to come," Brown said. 
Dan Cross scored 14 points and Dametri Hill 12 for the Gators. Andrew DeClercq gave them an unexpected boost with 16 points-nearly double his average-and 13 rebounds. 
Arkansas out-duels Fab Four, Arizona awaits 
By OWEN CANFIELD 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 
The Arkansas Razorbacks gave President Clinton a display of their versatility Sunday as they beat Michigan 76-68 in the Midwest Regional final, denying the Wolverines their third straight trip to the Final Four. 
Clinton, his wife and daughter watched from third-row seats as Arkansas (29-3) advanced to its first Final Four since 1990, when it lost to Duke in the semifinals. The Razorbacks will play West Regional champion Arizona on Saturday. 
Michigan (24-8) lost despite 30 points and 13 rebounds from Juwan Howard. The Wolverines had reached the title game the past two years, los­ing last year to North Carolina and in 1992 to Duke. 
Corliss Williamson, quiet much of the day, made two big baskets inside during a late stretch and Scotty Thurman made two free throws with 17.3 seconds left to hold off Michigan, which had cut a 14-point deficit to two. 
Thurman, who finished with 20 points, made both ends of a one-and-one to give the Razorbacks a 73-68 lead. His free throws came after Jalen Rose missed a 3-pointer with 20 seconds left that would have tied the score. 
The Wolverines missed another 3-pointer with 11 seconds left and Clint McDaniel finished the scoring for Arkansas with three free throws. 
Michigan trailed 47-33 three minutes into the second half before working its way back into the game. An 8-0 run cut the lead to six, then Arkansas outscored Michigan 8-2 to lead by 11. 
A 3-pointer and a driving shot by Jimmy King got Michigan started on a 17-8 streak that brought the Wolverines within a basket, 63-61, with 5:33 left. 
Michigan had a chance to tie when the Wolverines stole the ball, but Rose missed the breakaway layup. Arkansas responded with an inside basket by Darnell Robinson and two by Williamson to get the lead back to six with 3:23 left. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
$$ FOR BOOKS @ PANDORA'S everyday but sunday until 5:30pm 233-2342 ND ave & Howard 
I am looking for a ride to either Syracuse ( or upstate New York) or Hartford for Easter, willing to share gas & tolls. Call Sean, 3479. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
FOUND: Gold-like good sized ear­
ing. Call x4358. 
FOUND: a really great watch in Debartolo room 155 on 3/21. Call to identify. x3486 
LOST-LOST-LOST-LOST 
Gold Bracelet 
FOUND -GOLD AND BLACK WATCH AT STEPAN COURTS. FOR A GOOD TIME CALL MEAl ­273-5924. 
• FOUND BOOK • 
"PEACEWORKS" 
found in 81 lot behind the 
Univ.Ciub call#8210 to claim 
Found 
Money in Riley, third floor 
Contact Katie, 277 6703 
WANTED 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­0219 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING-Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 
Summer Resort Jobs -Earn to $12/hr.+ tips. Locations include: Hawaii, Florida, Rocky Mountains, Alaska, New England, etc. for details call: 1-800-807-5950 ext. R5584. 
Jordan's Ford, Toyota, Volvo, Mistubishi in Mishawaka is currently seeking a Campus Representative to aid in the process of sales throughout our dealership. Commission based position. 
Interested parties please contact 
Mr. Jim Hoffer at 
(219)259-1981 ext. 354 
We need a ride to MN for Easter. 
Will pay gas & tolls. Call Brian or 
Kory 
4-3049 
I desperately need a ride to St. 
Louis for Easter Break. Will help 
pay gas and tolls. 
Please call Tim at 1462. 
SUBWAY is NOW HIRING If you are an enthusiastic, depend­able self starter, we would like to talk to you. Flexible hours and friendly atmosphere. Call Jacki or Penny at 277-7744 for an interview. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C6675 
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN­TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 extA29. 
SUMMER LIFE GUARD We need 1 or 2 fully-certified life­guards for our miniature wave pool in Granger. 40 hr. wk. at $5.50/hr. Complete season hours. Season 5/25/94-Labor day, 1994. Weekends only alter school starts. Call Jim Wyllie 277-1335. 
Going to Dayton over Easter/ Will help drive,$1 Jen 2801 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Earn up to $8,000+ in two months. Room & Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary! Call (206)545-4155 ext A5584 
CO-ED SUMMER CAMP IN MAINE seeks staff from 6-17 to 8-21 to teach athletics, tennis, ropes cours­es, rock climbing, backpacking, swimming, fishing, sailing, waterski­ing, performing arts and many more. Age 20+. Contact Camp Wekeela's winter office at 1-800­959-3177. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153 
COLLEGE PARK 
CONDOMINIUMS -1/4 mile from library -New appliances -2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms -Washer & Dryer units -Large closets -Covered parking -Security System -Large balconies ---Units now available­
$660 per month ..... Going Quicklyll ********CALL: 272~0691 ********** 
Professional females seeking same. 150/MO + Util CastlePoint 271-0801 -BED AND BREAKFAST for gradu­ation and football weekends. 2 bed­rooms (twins) and 1 bedroom (sin­gle) with separate bath-10 minutes from campus. Reasonable, call 234-2626 
1, 2, & 3 BEDROOM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE NOW & FALL. STARTING AT $225. MO. GILLIS PROPER­TIES.272-6306 
Moving home for the summer? Let Hertz Penske truck rental help 
make the job easier. Call Kelly or 
Judie at 291-1414 for a quote on 
our one-way unlimited mileage 
rates. 
TRTLE CRK TOWNHOUSE AVAIL­ABLE FOR SUMMER CALL 273-6564 FOR INFO 
Wrigleyville Apartment -Avail. May 
1, Lg 3 BR in graystone two flat, 
new kitchen with d/w, new bath, 
hardwood floors, easy street prkg, 
near el. WID incl. 1080/mo 
312/472-7775 Louis '84 
FOR SALE 
Macintosh Classic, lmagewriter 
printer, system 7 and tons of soft­
ware: Word, Page, Excel ... 
$500 or best offer @ 273-3920 
HOUSE 4 SALE 
1.5 miles from campus; 3 bedroom fenced yard; very clean; great, safe neighborhood on Northwood Dr. $48,500. Call288-7490. 
2 BIKES $50. EA. & FAX. 272-6306 
IMMACULATE 2 BDRM HOME 
NEAR CAMPUS. $29,900. GILLIS 
REALTY 272-6306,232-1466 For Sale: Commodore 128 w/ printer and software. $250 or \l(lur best offer. Must sell now! Call Heidi x4046 
TICKETS 
1-Way, INDY/ORUNAPLES, $175 Local219-654-7222 or 219-654­3477 
FOR SALE: 4 Shawn Colvin tickets In Chicago this Friday night Face value ($25 each). First come, first served. Call Tom@ 1-8775 
FOR SALE: 4 Shawn Colvin tickets In Chicago this Friday night Face value ($25 each). First come, first served. Call Tom@ 1-8775 
PERSONAL 
Math tutoring available .... Senior honors math major will tutor any 1 00 or 200-level math courses, possibly higher levels as well. Times and rates negotiable. Call Jeff@ 277-5612 
Schlage, slept much lately? fallen asleep during any phone conversations lately? Just curious. 
Popo 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL CAPT. MEETING 
HESS Aud -Today 6:00PM 
Sched. & Team lists 
"We could be dancing in the sheets Rob-Here is your classified ... ! know you were expecting it earlier but you know how LONG it takes to enter!! Thanks for being patient with me! Love, Melanie 
HAVE YOU WRITIEN THE MAYOR YET? COUNTY-CITY BLDG. I SO. BEND IN 46601 
reasons why beer is better than a man 
Beer doesn't have roommates to mock you. You can have two different beers in one night and no one makes fun of you. Beer isn't stupid. 
PRO-CHOICE? PRO-LIFE? Educate yourself, then decide. Dr. Sheikh Speaks. Mon. 7:30 126 Debartolo. 
THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune Student Center is now accepting applications for part-time employment beginning immediately and continuing through next school year. If interested, stop in and apply. 
KYLE KUSEK-­
Happy (early) Birthday! Just get in the Accord and come on'Out! We're gonna have 20-30 people. 
"SKULL and crossbones· 
Looking for a ride to Cleveland, OH for Easter and can leave Thursday morning. I will help out with expenses ... can you help me? Thanks! Call Mara at 284-5117 
----~-­
and four in the eighth to round 
out the scoring. 
Keady may keep Big Dog on a leash 
Sweep 
Freshman pitcher Darin 

Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
Glenn Robinson, the nation's leading scorer and Naismith college player of the year, indi­cated Sunday that he will stay at Purdue for his senior season rather than turn pro. 
"I know it's hard to turn down money like that, but the money will be there when I want to leave," Robinson told CBS after being named the Naismith Award winner. 
Robinson, who led the nation with a 30.3 scoring average, would probably be the No. 1 pick in the June 29 NBA draft if he decided to give up his last year of eligibility. 
But Robinson said that is not much of a factor. 
"Well, if I was the No. 1 pick now, then maybe I could be the No. 1 pick next year because, hopefully. my game will im­prove," he said with a laugh. 
After the Boilermakers were 
Po~;~~~~~·~'I~croS&e iD~ttb.* 
"1PA cas~':of meolngitls ~ri ihc; 
Hofstra campus foreeij t)l~ cancellation of this weekenq'~ lacrosse match between Notre Dame and the 10th:ft:( 
. Flying Dutchmen. it :t. 
beaten 69-60 by Duke on Sat­urday in the NCAA Southeast Regional, Robinson appeared angry when reporters asked if he had played his last college game. 
"Until I hold a press confer­ence, no," he said. 
In an interview with The As­sociated Press earlier this sea­son, Robinson said it would be hard for him to give up his last year. 
"I think it will be tough to leave these guys. I've been with them for about three years. Cuonzo Martin, he's my room­mate. Porter Roberts, he came last year. We all seem to get along real well and most of the team will be back next year." 
Mark Adams, Purdue's sports information director, said he was not surprised by what Robinson said. 
"That's what he's been saying all along. And if he changes his mind, he's going to call a press 
Softball 
continued from page 16 
she shut out Mercer over five innings. She allowed one hit and struck out three. 
The Irish helped out their rookie pitcher by piling on 
conference," Adams said. 
Robinson said he would not make any decision without talking to his parents and Purdue coach Gene Keady. 
''I'm going to just relax, I have a lot of time," he said. "If I stay that's fine." 
Robinson has until mid-May to give up his college eligibility and make himself available for the draft. The deadline is 45 days before the draft, which this year is June 29. 
Even if he does go pro, new NCAA rules allow him to change his mind and regain his eligibility within 30 days of the draft. 
The Naismith Award is the latest in a long list of awards for Robinson. He was a unani­mous All-American, Big Ten player of the year, and holds Purdue and the Big Ten's record for most points scored in a single season (1,030). 
seven runs in the first inning. Connoyer was two-for-three with a double and two RBI. Knudson and Liz Goetz also drove in two runs. 
Weather permitting, the Irish will host Michigan Wednesday at Ivy Field at 2 p.m., a team traditionally among the softball powers of the midwest region. 
Your Future Is In Washington. 

S
pend this summer learning in the world's most stimulating city. The 1994 Sun~mer Sessions at !he George Wasl11ngton Umvers1ty offer over ::>00 courses co\'ering 60 different area5 of study. 
Enjoy the Resources of the Nation's Capital 
Located just four blocks from the White House and adjacent to the World Bank, GW's campus is within walking distance of the U.S. State Department, the Smithsonian, and many other prestigious institutions. 
Meet the Movers and the Shakers 
You'll not only learn from The George Washington University's distinguished faculty, but will also mrt>t government and corporate leaders, cabinet members, heads of p:overnnwnt agencies. Capitol Hill staffers, assoeiatioro directors. and corporate executives, who are often selllinar leaders, guest lecturers, and part-time farultv. Opportunities for internships in prominPnt n.c. or~anizat ions are also available. 
Maximize Your Career Potential with Special Summer Programs 
• 
Prevention of Terrorism • GW Madrid Centre 

• 
Historical Archaeology • Public Relations 

• 
Histo')· in the Media • Total Quality Management 

• 
Sport & Event Management in Higher Education 

• 
Tropical Marine Biology • Information Systems 

• 
Publication Institute • Legal Assistant 

• 
International Education: • Latin America: Cultural Indonesia and Malaysia 


and Business Environment 
• And Many More! 
Choose from a Variety of Options at The George Washington University 
Two main 6-week sessions: May 11 -June 22 and Jtme 27 -August 8. Plus sessions ranging from one­week field sessions to 13-wePk seminars. 
For More Information, eThe 
Call 202-994-6360 r e 
or mail or fax the as ltl'eton coupon below. 
ruvet'Stcy 
WASHINGTON DC 
~------­
My Future Is in Washington This Summer! 
Please rush me the following information: 
0  1994 Summer Sessions Bulletin with course  
descriptions, special programs, Study Abroad  
programs. schedules, and registration information.  
0  GW's '{ear-round Undergraduate Programs  
0  GW's Year-round Graduate Programs  
0  199<~ Summer Sessions Study Abroad Programs  
Ill,________  

Name _________o.o.B. ___ Current Address------------­City------State ____ Zip ___ Phone(,____)_____________ Return 'ompleted form to: 
The George Washington University. 1994 Summer Sessions 2121 Eye Street, NW, Washin~ton. DC 20052 FAX (202)994-9133. 
Tlw (;eo~e Wu:-.hin~ton Unin·r!Oil~ i:-an t>qunl Oji1Kn1unity in!-iliiUtiou. 
continued from page 16 
the plate in the game for the Irish. Sophomore Robbie Birk pounded a double and a home run to drive in four runs while Haas notched four RBis of his own on a 2-for-3 showing. Topham added a two-run homer in the eighth inning and Kent extended his hitting streak to 11 games with a fifth­
inning, RBI single. 
The game was close through four innings as Notre Dame held a slim 2-1 lead, but a 10­run explosion in the fifth put the Irish ahead for good. In the inning, 11 batters came to the plate and eight scored before the first out. 
Notre Dame scored four in 
the sixth, one in the seventh 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Schmalz got his first win with a miserly performance that al­lowed the Explorers only one run on four hits in six innings on the mound. In additon to holding LaSalle hitless through 3-2/3 innings, Schmalz walked none and struck out four in the victory. Fellow frosh Paul Pry­blo (2 hits, 1 BB, 2 K) picked up the save with three shutout in­nings. 
LaSalle used five pitchers in the game, but starter Keith Gehm took the loss after giving up eight hits and seven runs in four innings. 
Sunday's doubleheader with LaSalle was canceled due to rain. The next game for the Irish is Opening Day at Eck Stadium on Wednesday at 3 
p.m. against Indiana. 
IT'S NOT WORTH THE WEIGHT. 
For better health and fitness, exercise. 
.. 
VAmerican Heart Association 
~i~~t ~ 
Happy 21st Steve Crowley 
Remember to wear 
·... your d~aper ton~ght" 
Love, Leather, Suede and Yellow-Afro Man 
(K.C. & Laurie) 
New Innovative Technique 

Your Personal Resume on Video 
hmovative Effective Personal 
.... 
Call Dave locally for details at 291-3183. Leave name and number on recorder. 
.• <f, 
Dava International 


r 
page 14
I 
I Wynn
I 
I 
i continued from page 16 
He recorded 19 tackles last season, and also had three sacks. And these statistics were compiled under the con­servative scheme of former de­fensive coordinator Rick Minter. 
Under the more aggressive system of new defensive coach Bob Davie, Wynn will look to play a more integral role in rushing the passer and contain­ing the run outside. 
"It's a new defense and a new system. It lets us to better show what we can do," he said. 
Under Davie's system, Wynn will be able to utilize his great­est physical asset, his speed. 
"They're very fast," said of­fensive tackle Ryan Leahy of both Wynn and teammate Bert Berry. "They get around you really quick and they're tough to block." 
The sophomore's physical attributes perfectly fit him in the mold that Davie tries to chisel for his linebackers. And the coach's ability to motivate his players on the field has given Wynn a sense of respect and desire to perform well. 
"He's one of the best coaches in the nation," Wynn continued. "He knows what he wants from his players, and he makes us better. He's really intense." 
Even as intense as Renaldo Wynn. 
r-~----------------------,
Opening Day is Coming! I 
I
And we want YOU 
I 
to throw out the first pitch! 
I I Would you like to represent the student body at the I March 30 home opener of the 1994 Notre Dame I Baseball season at the innaugural game of Frank Eck I 
Stadium by throwing out the first pitch? 
f}r-' 
Just fill this out and return it to: ~~~ Student First Pitch Contest < ~ 
• ·Sports Marketing Department -JACC ' ?: 
by 5:00p.m. Monday, March 2B.W 
--'oll+'-""'''-">::l
Name:_______________________________ 
Address:_______________ 
Phone:._________ Class:._____ 
Winner will be notified by 6 p.m. Monday, March 28 
~-~----------------------~ 
ATTENTION COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION SoPHOMORES 
Ifyou are interested in serving on tfie Co{fege of~usiness Jtdministration Co{fege CounciG pfease submit your resume and a fetter ofrecommendation from a ~.91. facu{ty member to: 
Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio Room 132 Hayes-Healy Center 
,.... 
no {ater tfian Jtpri{ 8, 1994 
The Observer· SPORTS Monday, March 28, 1994 
Becton banged up 

By MIKE NORBUT DEFENSE DOMINATES 
Assistant Sports Editor 
In passing drills Saturday, 
Though freshman tailback the defensive secondary 
Robert Farmer returned to continued to get the best of 
practice Saturday, junior the offense, Junior Jeremy 
Lee Becton injured his leg Nau, freshman Brian Perry, 
and sat out of practice yes­and freshman John Bishop 
terday. all recorded interceptions. 
Junior receiver Charlie 
He was on crutches yes­Stafford continued to
photo courtesy of NO Sports lnlormatlon 
Lee Becton is out indefinitely after suffer­terday and is currently on a impress, however, as he 
ing a leg injury. 
Ifyou see sports happening, call The Observer at 631-4543 and let us know. 
11n1i1 Tlafl1311:45, 4:15, 7, I ...Ill ~1/31PC13) 1!:31. !:45, i, 7:15, 1:45 ltlllliiJIII(PC13)!,4:31,7,t• All v..:Pli*III(PC13) 1t45, 3, i:•. 7:45 
~13)11 
1.._..13)!:15,4:45, 7:31, II Rllllllllldi(PI)I, 4,1:45, l15 
11'1 ~G13) 1:45,4:30,7:15,10 
saiwllla(PG) 1:30,4:15, 7, 9:45 
Dl -Gt3) 2, 4:45,7:30, 9:45 
day-to-day playing basis. continually made the tough 
Notre Dame Students & ¥acuity We want to makeyourroad to 
success alittle smoother! 
Service Coupon 
00/oOff
Your next service visit at Jordan's I PriorOffers Excluded. This offer good on next visitto Jordan's only. I L--~~~coom~y~y,~~~&wls~y. __~ 
FREE SERVICE 
·sHUTTLE. 

We service aU Ford, Lincoln·Meruuy can & bUcks and aU imports At Jefferson and Cedar Streets, Mishawaka 
Import Service: ( 219) 259-1981 ext. 271 • Ford Service: (219) 259-1981 ext. 541 
TourEurope ina NewPeugeotfor Just$31 aDay 
With Kemwel's New car StudentPlan 
Trading in the books for the backroads ofEurope this summer? Travel the roadways in style in a brand-new 1994 Peugeot, direct from the factory! For just $429, students 18 years and older can rent a Peugeot 106 four-door hatchback for two weeks. Split between four people, that's just $107 per person! And when compared to the typical cost ofa rail pass, it's the most economical way to go where you want, when you want-in Belgium, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Portugal, Spain or the United Kingdom. 
For reservations, see your travel agent or call 
1-800-727-4531 
Includes full factmy wananty • All taxes • Unlimited mileage • Non-deductible oollision insurance 
• Extra days just $12 • Free pick-up and delivel)' in most major French cities; small charge in other oountries • Other models available • Offer good through December 31, 1994 
catch in traffic. 
CENTER SEARCH 
In the hunt to find a replacement for Tim Ruddy, offensive line coach Joe Moore has been vacillating between Rick Kaczenski and Greg Stec, two scholarship athletes with nearly no game experience at center. 


SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 




'CoOs 
'l?Os 
The evolution of Medusa's hair 
OF INTEREST 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 




CROSSWORD .. 
ACROSS 26 Some bikes 52 Gametes 28"-the 53 Theater aide 
1 More 
season ..." 55 White House exuberant, as a 29 Upper regions defense grp. 
laugh 
of space 56 Barbie's beau s Snatch 31 Scrabble piece 57 Sixth sense9 "Cold hands, 
32 Mare's offspring 58 Joad and Kettle 33Judged 59 Wilder's "-­
14 Mast-steadying 35 Place for E.M.K. Town"rope 36 Concordes land &o Sing~r Johnts Hitchcock's 
there 62 Gibbons
"-Window" 37 Without 64 Desiccated
16 Of a region reservation 65 Means of 17 Now's partner 40 Little demon connection18 Eggshell 43 Corn site 66 Gambler's19 Rubberneck 
44 Prolonged "bones" 20 Altar in the sky 
attacks 67 Like some cars 
21 Sault-Marie 
48 Steak order 
68 Pulse indication 22Yarmulke 49 Vesuvius's 
69 Collectors' 24 Capts.' Sicilian goalssubordinates counterpart 
70 February 14 25Campaign 51 Boston Garden, 
symboldonor grp. e.g. 
DOWN ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

1 Like some 
candy boxes 2 Repeat 3 Otalgia 12 Kind of arts or 41 Entangler 50 Mien 4 Place for ham law 42 Sanchez Vicario 53 Slow on the 


and Swiss 13 With cruelty of tennis uptake 21 -·-throat
s Miss Garbo 45 Columbus, by 54 Mitigates .6 Modern 23 Alters birth 61 Bouncer's 7 Swiss river 27 Discourages demand
46 Guaranteed 8 Movie star with 30 Overact 63 Pizza
47 University in
a kick? 32 Where to go 
Bridgeport, 64 California's Big 
9 Ethnic group between acts Conn. 
portrayed in A. 34 Restrains 
R. Gurney's 38 Reporters' 
plays needs Get answers to any three clues 39 Tale tellers 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
11 Person who can 40 Jilted lover's 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
move buildings woe 


Student Union Board Presents 
William F. Buckley  The Acoustic Cafe  
Speaks at Stepan Center at 7:30 Tuesday March 29, 1994  Thursday Night In the Huddle From 9pm to 1:30 am  
Tickets  3 at Lafortune Info Desk  

.. 

~~---~---­
SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, March 28, 1994 
Notre Dame sweeps into MCC play 
ters put a run on the board in every inning but the third. 
Senior Matt Haas and sophomore Robbie Kent both went 3-for-4 with a double apiece and junior Paul Failla went 2-for-3. Kent crossed the plate three times while Haas and Failla scored twice. 
Sophomore Ryan Topham, who got the most out of his hits in both games, drove in two runs with his fifth inning single off LaSalle starter Pete Wichteman. Wichteman (1-2) took the loss for the Explorers after giving up eight runs on 11 hits in 5-2/3 innings. 
The second game was an offensive show of force as the Irish had 11 differ­ent players record hits in the 21-1 blowout. 
Freshmen Dennis Twombley led the way with a 4-for-6 performance that included two doubles and three runs batted in while senior Greg Layson added a perfect 3-for-3, three-run outing as the lead-off hitter. 
But there were several more stars at 
see SWEEP I page 13 
Just 
By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sports Writer 
At last week's College Baseball Classic, 
the Notre Dame baseball team had trou­
ble converting their hits into runs. 
That was not the case this weekend as
l. 
the Irish shelled Midwestern Collegiate Conference rival LaSalle with 30 runs on 32 hits in two games. The Irish (7 -4) swept Saturday's doubleheader with a 9­2 and a 21-1 victory over the Explorers. 
Coach Pat Murphy was pleased with his team's offensive performances. 
"It was good to break out offensively. It definitely gives us some confidence," said Murphy who used a number of inexperienced players in the games. 
"We're a young team and it was good to get some of the younger players some quality playing time. We still have a long way to go, but we're definitely improving day after day-with both our pitching and offense." 
In the first game, senior southpaw Tom Price (3-2) went seven innings The Observer/Sean Farnan allowing only seven hits and two runs for Robbie Birk helped lift the Irish to a pair of wins over MCC rival LaSalle. the complete game 9-2 win while his hit-

Softball can't escape the elements 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
Notre Dame softball coach Liz Miller hoped this weekend's trip to the Winthrop Invitational in Rock Hill, S.C. would offer a respite from the cold, wet South Bend weather that was forcing the team to prac­tice inside. 
Unfortunately, the championship round of the tournament was washed out Sunday and the inclement weather delayed the team while traveling back to Notre Dame to prepare for their home opener Wednesday against Michigan. 
The Irish were able to play three games Saturday, defeating Maine 3-1, host Winthrop 6-1 and Mercer 8-0 to claim first place in the C-pool. 
The Irish employed the same late-inning heroics they used to defeat Indiana last week in the first game against Maine, com­ing back to score three runs in the top of the seventh to beat the Black Bears. 
.. Christy Connoyer started the rally with a single and scored on Kara McMahon's hit. Michele Cline belted a triple, scoring McMahon and then Cline came home on Jenna Knudson's base hit. Terri Kobata went the distance for Notre Dame giving up one run on two hits and striking out ten. Sara Hayes led the way in the win against Winthrop, going three-for-three with a home run and four RBI. Hayes is the Irish's career home run leader with 17 and holds the record for most homers In a season, now at eight. Freshman pitcher Joy Battersby got the win with five innings of shut-out work. Sophomore walk-on Trish Sorensen saw her first collegiate action with two innings of relief against Winthrop, giving up one run on two hits. Sorensen later earned her first win as ' 
see SOFTBALL I page 13 

The Observer/T. J. Harris 
Sophomore defensive end Renaldo Wynn is ready to step into the spotlight. see WYNN I page 14 
L---------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
.­




