

Tuesday, February 15, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 90 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE OAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Expert explores nationalism in Latin America Senate votes 
By JENNIFER GIOVA News Writer 
on possible 
Though world powers were largely responsible for begin­
new groupning the development of Latin America, their own nationalis­
By ANALISE TAYLOR 
tic regimes were responsible 
News Writer
for completing it, according to Alberto Rozos, professor of His­Last night's Student Senatetory and Philosophy at the Uni­meeting erupted into fierce de­versity of Havana. 
bate about the group Lead or
In a lecture entitled, 
Leave.
"Nationalism: Crisis and Revo­lution in Cuba and Latin Amer­STUDENT SENATE ica," Rozos said that national­
This group proposes to "getistic influences in Latin Amer­younger Americans more in­ica have been present since af­volved in politics, educate them ter World War I. 
about the economic crisis fac­Since the countries could not ing out nation and build a polit­develop themselves, nationalis­ical force to fight for a progres­tic regimes took over and aided 
sive platform for economic
in development. Important so­change."
cial measures were enforced, Student Senators expressed
such as equal pay for equal 
concern about the potential po­work and rights for pregnant litical bent of the group and its women, said Rozos. 
exact benefits for the studentsThese measures increased of Notre Dame. 
the national market, which was 
Student Body President
suffering as a result of Latin The Observer/Colleen Moore Frank Flynn discussed the is­
America's complex develop­
sue with a Lead or Leave rep­ment. 
Alberto Rozos, visiting professor of history and philosophy from the University of Havana, lectured students resentative.
The colonization of Latin 
on the impact of nationalism is Latin America yesterday at the Hesburgh Center. "The group has no political
America resulted in an envi­
affect Cuba. almost everything was Ameri­for their plows, since they could gain or platform," Flynn said. 
ronment much like that of 
"The nationalist movement can." no longer operate without a Notre Dame is under no obli­southern United States, mainly 
was the most important thing "You can't keep having a fuel source. gation to endorse any of theVirginia. during the Pre-Civil 
happening in Latin America, whore house for a country," The Cubans are working to group's ideas, Flynn said. 
War era. Crops were the main 
but that does not mean that it said Rozos. Women, men, and "develop a new economy, and The resolution passed by a source of income and cropping was happening everywhere at children begged in their yards an efficient economy," said Ro­vote of ten to two. 
was the main source of em­
the same time, with the same in misery. According to Rozos, zos. Many economic changes The issue of homosexuality
ployment for many Latin 
strength," Rozos said .. "For us, the worse thing that have been made, including le­also caused tension betweenAmericans. 
The leaders of Cuba were there is in life is to beg in mis­galizing the dollar, allowing co­several senators after SUBHowever, the Industrial Revo­
businessmen interested in the ery ... I'd rather die." operatives, private companies, Board Manager Ellen Zahrenlution that followed the Civil national market, and they ex­The Soviet Union's new al­and joint ventures. proposed a resolution whichWar furthered America's eco­ported products, "at the highest liance provided the Cubans All of the machines, furnish­would foster education aboutnomical growth, while its ef­price possible, to the best pos­with a chance to live rather ings, and buildings are made and awareness of the issue. 
fects combined with the lack of 
sible markets," said Rozos. well. They supplied them with from Cuban industries. "They "I think a lot of the aware­Western trade, changed eco­This resulted in 40% total un­oil, and they purchased Latin are not so beautiful, but they ness is based on discrimina­nomic development. The possi­
tion," said Student Senator
employment, and an additional American exports. are Cuban made," said Rozos. 
bilities for working grew, and 
25% seasonal unemployment. However, a more important Technological advancements Erin King. 
available agricultural land was The United States assisted result of this influence was the are also growing. "If you have The group is "promoting anharder to find, according to Ro­
zos. Cuba in many ways, providing "time it gave us to develop the to stay alive for an hour with­atmosphere free from intoler­refrigerators, electricity, and capabilities of our own profes­out a heart [in Cuba], the ance and harassment for all
"Many things were produced, 
students, including gays and
shoes, in addition aiding them sionals," said Rozos. machine that keeps you alive is
like shoes, clothes, hats, like lesbians."
in the peace talks in San Juan. ·The breakup of the Soviet Cuban made." 
housing, and like the industry 
Rozos said that Cubans "loved Union has caused many prob­Many improvements are still The issue needs to be ad­of food," said Rozos. 
the Americans," but in order to lems for Cubans. They no needed. However, Rozos dressed in the prejudice reduc­While the nationalist move­become self-sufficient, they longer had a supply of oil, and, stressed that the people of Cuba tion workshops, according to
ment increased the working 
needed rid themselves of according to Rozos, had to now decide what happens and Zahren.
conditions and economy of most 
American interest "because learn how to work with bulls what takes place. 
of Latin America, it did not see SENATE I page 4 


Budget ammendment attacked Analysts project continued 
By ALAN FRAM considered too close to call. The black plague is coming back 
Associated Press measure would require a bal­and, worst of all, pizza deliver­
growth of U.S. economy
anced budget but leave deci­ies are a thing of the past if we 
WASHINGTON sions on how to do it for later. pass the balanced budget By JOHN McCLAIN percent this year. The Con­
A constitutional amendment Supporters, who are mostly amendment," said Sen. Phil Associated Press sumer Price Index rose 2.7 per­requiring a balanced budget conservatives, say the proposal Gramm's press secretary, Larry cent in 1993. would boost individuals' taxes would intensify the pressure Neal. "This is a red ink scare WASHINGTON That finding, Dunkelberg by hundreds of dollars annually lawmakers feel to enact the po­concocted by the guys who love Americans will continue to said, suggests "a year or two of and force deep slashes in Social litically difficult savings. red ink." benefit from an expanding real tranquillity and stability.'' Security and other popular pro­White House officials held The administration analysis economy next year, although Still, Dunkelberg said many of grams. according to a study re­their copies of their study to assumed that eliminating fed­growth will slow somewhat the forecasters, who were sur­leased Monday by the Clinton news organizations in states eral shortfalls by the year 2000 from this year's pace, a survey veyed in late January, expect administration. across the country in hopes of would require a five-year, $600 of some of the nation's top eco­the Federal Reserve to remain 
Acting on the eve of a week of forcing amendment supporters billion deficit-reduction pack­nomic forecasters suggests. vigilant against any substantive Senate hearings on the pro­to spell out what spending cuts age. "The overall outlook is quite increase in price pressures. posed amendment, White and tax increases they would The study examined five sep­good," William C. Dunkelberg, "The Fed's going to watch House and Treasury officials favor to achieve their balanced­arate ways of achieving those president of the National Asso­closely what's going on," he released their report in hopes budget goal. savings. One relied on slightly ciation of Business Economists, predicted, and have a "hair of weakening congressional and "You have in some respects more spending cuts than tax in­told reporters Monday. "People trigger" if needed "to nip any public support for measure. the ultimate sham," said Alt­creases, the rest on spending will look back and say, 'Those inflationary trend in the bud." 
"We want the American peo­man. "A considerable number reductions for all or most pro­were pretty good years.'" The central bank, in a pre­ple to understand the degree of of people in the country and in grams with no tax increases at The consensus of the 44 fore­emptive move designed to head hardship which would result the Congress favoring the all. The analysis detailed the casters in the NABE survey is off any bout of inflation, from this step," Roger Altman, amendment, virtually all of impact each option would have for economic growth of 3.2 per­nudged short-term interest deputy Treasury secretary, told whom oppose the specific steps on the average American, and cent this year. slowing to 2.8 rates up to 3.25 percent, from 3 reporters at a White House necessary to bring about com­on residents of each state. percent in 1995. The economy percent, on Feb. 4. briefing. "And believe me, it pliance with the amendment." The formula would mean av­expanded 2.9 percent last year. Residential housing, automo­would be major league." But supporters of the amend­erage annual tax increases of The consensus also forecasts bile sales and business invest­
Senate floor debate on the ment disagreed. $742 for Alaskans, $789 for inflation to remain muted al­ment in equipment, all leading amendment is scheduled for "Yeah, yeah, yeah and west­Californians, and $877 for New though it is expected to edge up indicators, are projected to later this month, and a vote is ern civilization is doomed, the Yorkers, the study said. to 3.4 percent in 1995, from 2.8 level off or decelerate in 1995. 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Doc Martens and cowboy boots really 
• 

can coextst 
I hummed a few·------­

Morrissey tunes on the way to see Garth Brooks Saturday night, to prove to myself that I was still a card-carrying member of the "alternative" music scene. 
I sang Too Much Joy's theme song to myself as I toted my camera bag to the JACC, just to reassure myself that I was still a 
Kyle Kusek Photographer/ 

Bandwagon Man 
rebel. 

"I'm not a country fan," I told a family in line outside gate 10, as if they cared. "I'm just here to turn the keen eye of The Observer on this Garth Brooks guy. I'm getting paid to do this." The family was suit­ably impressed. "Good luck," they offered. With a nervous 'Thank you" in reply, I headed in to my own musical calvary to The Smith's "I Know It's Over." 
What transpired in that arena is difficult to describe. Two Garth shows and 42 straight viewings of "Pure Country" later, the words come but haltingly amid spontaneous bursts of "Yee-haws" and stomping feet. The excitement in the JACC both nights was palpable, as was the perfume. I tried to sneer at the acres of cowboy boots and hats, but I failed. My self­important smirk lasted about one song, and I'm glad; the show was too good not to enjoy. 
Garth Brooks charmed the cynic plumb out of me; his show was a whirlwind of quality music and charisma. The smoke and the lights were sublime, and the athletic leap to the ladder was a nice touch. I wanted to be in that arena. I needed to be in that arena. Musical epiphany was upon me. Flash photography was not only allowed, it was strongly encouraged. I laughed, I cried, it was better than "Cats." 
Now days later, I can kick back, hook my thumbs in my Wrangler jeans, and ponder alternative things. Garth Brooks is an alterna­tive to the music usually in my CD player, but I doubt if many of his fans care. They have found a singer they like, and I reckon they will stay with him. Any suggestions that they shouldn't listen to Garth, that Garth plays "hillbilly" music, will likely merit a size 14 Tony Llama in the rear end. 
So be it. Garth Brooks fans don't need to apologize for listening to good music, no matter how much their peers sneer at songs about rolling thunder, no matter how much self­styled artistic purists prate about "commercial" music. The only way to beat a Garth show would be to have Morrissey join him on stage, doing an angst-filled version of "The Dance." Since that is about as likely as the Grateful Dead on campus, I won't hold my breath. 
Several questions come to mind after my own odyssey of country: Are my Smiths albums for sale? A definite no. Am I giving my Clash box set away? Not even. Will I trade my Doc Martens in for cowboy boots? As if. But am I a country fan now? A tentative one· maybe. And will Garth Brooks join Billy Bragg and The Connells in my CD collection? Definitely. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production 
Liz Foran John Rock Edward Imbus Kathie Young Sports Accent 
Bryan Connolly Mara Davis Lab Tech Kenya Johnson Kyle Kusek Lisa Monaco 
Business Graphics Michael Martin Chris Weirup David Clairmont 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, February 15, 1994 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Clinton previews welfare reforms 
WASHINGTON 
One in seven children is on welfare, more than one in 10 Americans buys groceries with food stamps and the number of births to unwed mothers is climbing toward one in three. 
That's a crisis to President Clinton, who argues that the nation's welfare system must be revolutionized. Conservatives agree, but many liberals question the need for drastic action, especially if the administration pays for reform by wringing savings from other programs for low­income families. 
One thing is certain: Caseloads are mushrooming and costs are soaring, draining federal and state treasuries. 
Conservatives also see a crisis of illegitimacy and dependency. They say welfare is "illegitimacy's economic life-support system" and responsible for a permanent class of broken families. 
Clinton has said he'll introduce legislation this spring to do just that. Under his plan, single parents on welfare would get the education, training and child-care they need to find work and then leave the rolls within 24 months. 
In the short term, however, it is cheaper to just keep writing welfare checks than setting up training, work and day-care programs for single mothers, many of them high-school dropouts with little work experience. 
Some liberals are not convinced there is a "welfare cri­sis" at all, including Rep. Patsy Mink of Hawaii, a leader of liberal House Democrats who are pushing a go-slow approach to reform. 
"There are many things that could be changed in the welfare structure, but I don't believe it's of crisis propor-
Welfare crisis 
The food stamP. program and Aid to Families with Dependent Children have both increased in number of recipients since the 1980s. 
AFDC recipients Food stamp recipients
30
5 
4 

20 
3 2 
10 
0
0 
1988 "89 '90 '91 "92 "93 1988 '89 "90 '91 '92 '93 

AP tions and requiring the doubling of money that we spend," Mink said. 
Other welfare experts say that while the situation may not be the nation's most urgent problem, there is growing consensus that however well-intentioned, welfare has failed taxpayers and the poor alike. 
Welfare reform will target Aid to Families with Dependent Children, a state-federal program that sup­ports about 5 million low-income families, most of them headed by single mothers. But food stamps, which help nearly 27 million Americans buy their groceries, will also be affected. 
Food stamps have also risen from 18.6 million recipi­ents and a cost $12.3 billion in 1988 to 26.9 million recip­ients and an estimated cost of $23.6 billion in 1993. 
AFDC has grown from 3.75 million families in 1988 and a total cost of $19 billion to 4.97 million families and a cost of $25.8 billion in 1993. 
There are 9.3 million children in families on AFDC. 

Dow to pay $2 billion for faulty implants 
BIRMINGHAM 
Dow Corning Corp. said today it agreed to pay more than $2 billion over thirty years as part of a proposed $4.75 billion settlement for women claiming injuries from silicone breast implants. Attorneys for women who have filed suit said over the weekend that the companies that were the three largest manufacturers of silicone breast implants -Dow Corning, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Baxter International -had agreed to pay about $4 bil­lion of a proposed $4.75 billion settlement. Dow Corning was the largest. Bristol-Myers Squibb would contribute up to $1.15 billion over the 30 years under the proposed settlement spokeswoman Francine Gingras said today in New York. More than 1 million American woman have gotten breast implants, about 80 percent of them for cos­metic reasons. Dow Corning was the largest manufactur­er of the implants until it stopped making them in 1992. The implants can rupture and some women have blamed the silicone for triggering immune system disorders, including scleroderma, a hardening of the skin resulting from abnormal fibrous tissue growth, and arthritis. 
Nuclear power growing in Southeast Asia 
JAKARTA. Indonesia 
Nuclear power plants, increasingly rejected in the West, have a brighter future in booming Asian cou_ntries with energy shortages. The demand for contmued growth appears to prevail over safety considerations and worries of environmentalists, which often stall construc­tion of nuclear plants elsewhere. Energy demand in the region is expected to increase by 12 percent anhually in the 1990s compared to 7 percent in the previous decade, according to the private sector arm of the World Bank. Many countries -notably India, Indonesia, Pakistan and Thailand -could reportedly suffer shortages in the next century ranging up to 25 percent of present supply. In order to avoid these dim predictions, Indonesia and Pakistan have begun trade negotiations with France for more nuclear technology. 
NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 15. 
30s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 



Top naval officer called on to resign 
WASHINGTON 
The Navy Times newspaper called on Adm. Frank 
Kelso II to resign as chief of naval operations following a 
recent round of allegations about the Tailhook scandal, 
saying that Kelso must be held responsible for his mis­
handling of the 1991 convention of Navy and Marine 
Corps aviators in Las Vegas in which dozens of women 
said they were assaulted. Kelso attended the Tailhook 
convention but says he was unaware of any debauchery 
or sexual misconduct. Some witnesses have contradicted 
his statements about where he was when some of the 
most flagrant misbehavior took place in a hotel hallway. 
Navy Secretary John Dalton, who last year recommended 
Kelso's removal, is reviewing the case. A Navy judge, 
Capt. William Vest, Jr., last week dismissed charges 
against three Navy officers who were among those 
accused of witnessing or participating in misconduct and 
accused Kelso of tainting the investigation. Kelso has 
denied any wrongdoing at any time during the convention 
or the investigation. 
More secure trade center parking reopens 
NEW YORK 
The world's most famous parking garage -once a 
yawning cavern where "ground zero" was a point in 
midair and dozens of wrecked cars lay in rubble five sto­
ries underground -is about to reopen. But as with 
other parts of the World Trade Center, there are many 
changes -most having to do with tighter security. 
Officials of the Port Authority of New York and New 
Jersey, which owns the landmark business complex in 
lower Manhattan, say they eventually will have spent 
$300 million on improvements in the wake of the bomb­
ing, and another $100 million to clean the 110-story twin 
towers from top to bottom. "To lose all of our new secu­
rity upgrades, you'd have to take the entire trade center 
out," says its director, Charles Maikish. 

t 
Tuesday, February 15, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 


U.S. moves against Japan on trade, with more to come 
ByTOMRAUM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration decided Monday to authorize sanctions against Japan on cel­lular phones, increasing pres­sure on the Japanese after the collapse of trade talks. Presi­dent Clinton conceded trade war could erupt but warned Japan it stood to lose the most. 
"It's just not acceptable for the United States to continue on the same path" after last week's breakdown in talks, Clinton said. 
U.S. officials from the presi­dent on down issued Tokyo some of the strongest warnings yet, following up quickly on last Friday's failed trade talks at a summit between Clinton and Japanese President Morihiro Hosokawa. 
"We haven~t ruled anything out," Clinton declared. 
Administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity said the United States would announce the be­ginning of trade-sanction pro­ceedings on Tuesday against Japan on cellular phones. 
The move could lead to pro­hibitively high tariffs on Japanese-made instruments and set the stage for sanctions in other areas as well. 
Although the cell-phone case, stemming from complaints by Motorola Inc., had been in the works for some time, the ad­ministration found it fit conve­niently into its efforts to ratchet up pressure on Tokyo. 
Clinton called it a "classic ex­ample" of the difficulties U.S. companies face in penetrating Japanese markets. 
In 1989, Japan agreed to give Motorola from one-third to one­half of its cellular phone busi­ness in the Tokyo area. But Mo­torola officials contend Japan deliberately ignored the bar­gain, holding the company's percentage of business under 5 percent. 
On Tuesday, the administra­tion will declare that Japan vio­lated the agreement, the first step in a process that could lead to stiff tariffs on Japanese­made cell phones, administra­tion officials said. 

And the Motorola decision won't be the end of the U.S. re­sponse, one senior official said. 
Many options are under re­view, not all involving sanc­tions, officials said. 
These range from ordering a Justice Department study of an­ticompetitive practices of Japanese auto companies to giving closer scrutiny to tax records of Japanese companies. The United States is also con­sidering bringing a broad com­plaint in Geneva against Japanese trade practices under the General Agreement on Tar­iffs and Trade, officials said. 
The administration could also dust off a punitive trade law not used since the early days of the Bush administration, known as Super 301, that gives the presi­dent broad powers to retaliate against unfair trade practices of any nation. 
Tokyo has always resented the measure, viewing it as be­ing specifically written with Japan as its prime target. 
Clinton could renew the dor­mant authority by executive or­der. 
But aides said this would be done only as a last resort, sug­gesting other, less inflamma­tory, approaches were being eyed first. 


Aristide wary of new Haiti plan Gays say Clinton health 
By GEORGE GEDDA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration is promoting a new formula for restoring democracy to Haiti, but exiled President Jean­Bertrand Aristide is concerned that it would return him to power with reduced authority. 
The plan, a highlight of which is the formation of a "govern­ment of national concord," is a variation of an agreement reached last year that was aborted when the Haitian mili­tary reneged on a promise to step aside. Aristide was deposed in a military coup in September 1991. 
Administration officials who briefed reporters Monday indi­cated the Haitian military may be more flexible at this point because of the pressure of in­ternational sanctions that were reimposed last fall. 
The U.N. Security Council is now debating proposals to tighten the sanctions. 
The core of the plan calls for Aristide to name a new prime minister after consulting with allies and opponents in the Haitian Parliament. 
Once parliament ratifies the prime minister and approves a 

plan is discriminatory
law granting amnesty to the military, the top military and police officials would step down and replacements would be named. At that point, the new prime minister would assume his duties, a new government would be formed and interna­tional sanctions would be sus­pended. 
Afterward, a U.S. official said, "the new government of na­tional concord, in concert with Aristide, would determine the specifics of when Aristide comes back." The officials com­mented only on condition of 

r--------------------------. anonymity. Unlike the agree­safer for lesbians, gay men or 



The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Controller 
Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost­tracking and order transaction duties. 
Please submit a one~page personal statement and resume to jake Peters by 5p.m., Thursday, February 17. Contact Jake at 631~5323 for more information. 
ment reached last year, there would be no target date set for Aristide's return. 
The new plan jelled late last week during talks here in which a bipartisan delegation of parliamentary leaders took part, the officials said. Aristide met with the group during the early stages but has declined to meet with them since the plan took shape. 
Aristide aides were not avail­able for comment on the pro­posal. But he is said to be wor­ried that the plan would leave him as a figurehead president, lacking the mandate he re­ceived when he was elected in December 1990. 



IT'S BACK! 
$300 minimum 
$300 maximum 
Beat The Clock Tuesday! 

Deferred payments 9.4% APR 
5:00p.m... 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday Students with good credit or 
Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza 

no credit qualify No co-signer needed. Bring your student I.D. 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 288-NDCU 


Free Delivery • 271,1177

Independent of the University 

congress­women sent Rep. Jim Cooper, D-Tenn., a letter complaining




Spring 
that his health reform bill "shortchanges women's health" by not spelling out what services would be cov­ered. Cooper would leave the

Break 
design of a benefits package to a national commission. "If this plan passes, women's health will fall right through

Loan 
the cracks," said Rep. Nita M. Lowey, D-N.Y., who helped or­ganize the letter. Three signers were Republicans -Connie Morella of Maryland, Susan Molinari of New York and Marge Roukema of New Jersey. 
Cooper, in a statement, said his bill would cover "all medi­cally appropriate treatments ... (and) the full range of preven­tive services." He added, "Any standard benefits package, no matter how it is developed, must recognize the special health care needs of women." 
The gay task force urged that explicit language barring dis­crimination based on sexual orientation be added through­out the 1,342-page Clinton bill. 
"Health-care reform must in­clude the enactment of protec­tions against anti-gay bias in the delivery of services," said Marj Plumb, the task force's health policy director. Gay peo­ple need access to providers "sensitive to their health-care needs." 
The group called for strong protections against "geograph­ic redlining and enrollment limitations" against people with the AIDS virus as well as those living in poverty. 
It expressed concern that "people living in areas with high rates of poverty and-or disease (San Francisco, New York, Washington, D.C.) could have higher premium rates and fewer health plans willing to operate in that area." 
The task force also contended that Clinton's coverage of pap smears and mammograms was too restrictive, and urged that lesbians as a group be desig­nated as medically underserved to encourage health plans to enroll them. 

By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The National Gay and Lesbian Task Force called for changes in President Clinton's health plan Monday to ensure that gay people are not dis­criminated against either as doctors or patients. 
The group applauded Clin­ton's commitment to universal coverage, but expressed con­cern that his bill "does not make the health-care system 
bisexuals." 

It said the Clinton plan "dis­criminates financially against non-traditional families" by defining a family as a married couple or a single parent with children. 
A gay couple with a child and big health bills could wind up paying $4,500 in deductibles compared with $3,000 for a traditional family, the task force said. 
Lorrie McHugh, a White House spokeswoman, said the defmition of family "would fol­low state laws." She said that under the Clinton plan, "you cannot discriminate against a patient or provider based on health status," making it illegal for insurers to refuse to cover gay people. 
Meanwhile, 29 

page4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February 15, 1994 
Resumed Israel and PLO 
Boat refugees no longer accepted 
talks focus on police force 
By ALEXANDER HIGGINS general standards of interna­was made to persuade them. 
Associated Press tional practice concerning Mrs. Ogata said she hopedrefugees. President Clinton's decision this GENEVA The meeting decided to halt month to end the 19-year U.S. Because of improving condi­by the end of 1995 a program trade embargo against Vietnam tions in Vietnam, boat people sorting out Vietnamese would be "a strong inducemen­from the communist nation no refugees already in camps, a t" to the Vietnamese to return 
longer will get preferential UNHCR statement said. home. treatment, meaning host coun­Under the program, the Ogata noted "the dramatic tries can ship them home, a 31-agency has been finding new drop in persons leaving Viet­nation meeting decided Mon­homes for Vietnamese boat nam by boat." About 777 
day. people who can prove they Vietnamese sought asylum in 
The countries, including would suffer persecution in other countries last year, most donors and Asian countries Vietnam, and giving allowances of them enticed to Japan bywhere boat people have come to those being sent home. rumors of large cash payments, 
ashore, made the decision after Only 8,000 of the 60,000 a UNHCR statement said. 
U.N. High Commissioner for Vietnamese refugees still living The low figure and the 55 Refugees Sadako Ogata cited in camps in Hong Kong, that sought asylum the year"generally positive trends" in Malaysia, Indonesia, the before compare with 22,922 in Vietnam. Philippines and Japan have 1991 and 30,939 in 1990. 
She also said new humanitar­valid fears of persecution and The countries at the meetingian emergencies have arisen can expect to be resettled, Mrs. have been participating in a elsewhere. Ogata said. The rest will have program that since 1989 has 
"The Vietnamese cannot be to go back to Vietnam. repatriated boat people who treated any differently from "A chapter is coming to an have no grounds to fear politi­other groups of asylum seek­end in Indochina and Southeast cal persecution, while resettling ers," Ogata said. Asia," she said. others. 
Starting Tuesday, countries She said it was possible to Nearly 60,000 Vietnamese can refuse entry to Vietnamese have all unapproved boat peo­have returned to their countryboat people or ship them back ple back home from camps by since Hong Kong sent the first without UNHCR screening, as the end of 1995 providing a "a groups home kicking and long as those countries abide by strong and concerted effort" screaming. 

in the Hesburgh Library pm, reception to follow featured in the 1994 festival: 
•
Alison Lurie* tonight!!! 

•
Charles Johnson (Wed. 2/16) 

•Joy 
Harjo (Thurs. 2/17) *Frank Deford has been 




{lj,

rescheduled for 4/13/94 

Hotel Rooms still available 
for the 1994 

Junior Parents Weekend! 
By RON KAMPEAS 
Associated Press 
TABA. Egypt 

Negotiators at the reconvened Israel-PLO peace talks zeroed in Monday on the size and weaponry of a Palestinian police force. 
The Palestinians want a force up to 20,000 strong in the oc­cupied territories where Pales­tinian self-rule is to take effect first. The Israelis are believed to be suggesting a force of about 6,000. 
"We will talk about the num­ber of police, their equipment, deployment, activity and coor­dination with us," said Maj. Gen. Amnon Shahak, Israel's chief negotiator and deputy chief of staff. 
Also on the agenda is the is­sue of the thousands of Pales­tinians in Israeli jails, Shahak said. 
The PLO has demanded the release of security detainees it says number 14,000. Israel says it holds half that number. 
Shahak spoke to reporters af­ter a preliminary meeting with Palestinian chief negotiator Nabil Shaath. 
Shaath said no special obsta­cles existed on the police issue, and predicted it may be re­solved as early as Tuesday. He said the police would be in place before an Israeli with­drawal. 
Shaath said talks on the pris­oners would begin Tuesday, and called the issue crucial. 
"There can be no signature on this agreement in its final form, unless it includes full amnesty provisions which will 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
However, students on campus 
already know enough about the 
issue, according to Student 
Body Treasurer Connor Mur­
phy. 
"I think the group is by far 
the most recognized one on 
campus," said Senior Class 
President Dan Connolly. 
The resolution passed by a 
7:48 p.m. Security transported an ~ff-
1\camJ>lilS student to St. Joseph Medical for treatment of an injury sustll.ined a fi!ll, 
schedule the release of all pris­
oners," he said. 
Israel's Shahak said the two 
outlined the discussions of the 
security committee for the 
week. It will focus only on the 
police and prisoner releases. 
Disputes on security in the autonomy zones and other is­sues have delayed implemen­tation of Palestinian self-rule. The peace agreement was struck at a historic Israeli-PLO meeting in Washington in September. 
Shahak said the security agreement reached in Cairo last week between Israeli For­eign Minister Shimon Peres and Yasser Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Liberation Orga­nization, was speeding the Taba discussions. 
In Cairo, the two sides agreed that Israel would retain control of the border crossings in the autonomy zones -the Gaza Strip and the West Bank city of Jericho. Palestinians would be able to fly their flag and Pales­tinian border guards would have sidearms. 
Asked about the atmosphere after the Cairo meeting, the usually reticent Shahak looked out at the brilliant blue sky and smiled, saying "It's like the weather." 
In Tunis, Tunisia, however, site of PLO headquarters, Arafat came under fire from senior aides for signing the se­curity agreement. 
Suleiman Najjab, a PLO Ex­ecutive Committee member, called the accord "frustrating" Monday. 
He said it reflected Israel's interpretation of the September PLO-Israeli pact. 
vote of ten to three, wtih two abstaining. 
In other Senate matters, The Huddle, the information desk area, and Fastbreak in LaFor­tune will remain open until 3 
a.m. beginning Feb. 21. 
Movies will be shown on the TV by the Huddle every night starting at 11 p.m. and 1 a.m. with free popcorn provided the first week, according to Student Body Vice President Nikki Wellmann. 

Perfect Pinkies Tanning 
Purchase 15 sessions for $4500 package 
Receive goggles and accelerator packet FREE with this ad 
In the Georgetown Center 
271-7121 
Other Packages Available 

(219)234-2000 
SOUTH BEND
.\\arrtoft. 
123 North St. Joseph Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601 
Tuesday, February 15, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Burmese opposition leader meets with U.S. 
By AYE AYE WIN 
Associated Press 
RANGOON, Burma 

A U.S. congressmen met with opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi on Monday in the first non-family visit allowed the Nobel Peace Prize winner in her nearly five years of house arrest. 
Requests from human rights groups, visiting American law­makers, journalists and others to see Suu Kyi had in the past been brusquely turned down by Burma's ruling military junta. 
Burmese officials declined to say why they let Rep. William Richardson, D-N.M., and Jehan Raheem, the ranking U.N. rep­resentative in Burma, meet with Suu Kyi. They entered her guarded lakeside home at about 10 a.m. and left 3 1/2 hours later. 
Richardson, who was accom­panied by a New York Times reporter, refused to talk with waiting journalists about what was said during the meeting. 
State radio and television briefly reported the visit in the evening news broadcasts. 
Richardson met with Lt. Gen. Khin Nyunt, a leading member of the junta, before seeing Suu Kyi. On Tuesday, he will inter­view political prisoners at Insein prison just outside the capital, diplomatic sources said. 
According to the State De­partment's annual human rights report earlier this month, 500 or more Burmese remain in prison for political reasons despite a clemency program begun in April 1992. The junta, which has been try­ing to improve its image, says more than 2,000 political pris­oners have been released. 
Since Suu Kyi's detention in 1989, only her husband and two sons had been permitted visits. Her British husband, Michael Aris, has seen her seven times, most recently in December. 
Military leaders have said she would be released if she agreed to leave the country. 
Suu Kyi, daughter of Burmese independence hero Aung San, returned home in 1988 and emerged as the leader of a pro-democracy movement that was brutally suppressed by the military. 
After her detention, Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy won a landslide election victory in 1990, but the generals nullified the results, jailed key members of the party and cracked down on other opponents. 
Suu Kyi, 48, won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991. Since then, human rights groups, fel­low Nobel peace laureates and many world leaders, including President Clinton, have called for her release. 
In a statement last year , Clinton called her "a symbol of hope ... and an inspiration to all who are striving for free­dom and democracy elsewhere in Asia and throughout the world." 

;rhe Pre-Vet Club Presents: 

Columhians oppose U.S. presence 
By STEVEN GUTKIN 
Associated Press 
JUANCHACO, Colombia 
Colombia is now on the front line of Washington's Andean drug war, despite protests from some Colombians de-nouncing 
U.S. 
military involvement as an invasion of sovereignty. 

U.S. 
officials believe Colombia has done more to combat drug traffickers than Bolivia or Peru, whose anti-drug aid may be cut because they appear less eager to stem drug smuggling. 


Coca leaves, the raw material used to make cocaine, are mostly grown in Bolivia and Peru. Colombia's drug cartels process the coca and smuggle it to world markets. 
The United States has backed the Colombian government's anti-drug efforts by giving it tens of millions of dollars a year in aid to fight the nation's drug lords, and has sent military troops and other personnel. 
The presence of some 250 American soldiers, U.S. drug agents and other personnel has become a hot issue in this year's congressional and presi­dential elections. 
One hundred of the soldiers are building a military base in central Colombia to help Colombian forces go after traf­fickers and guerrillas, maintain U.S.-built radars that nab drug flights and train Colombian troops. 
The Council of State, Colom­bia's highest court overseeing government administration, declared on Feb. 8 the presence of U.S. troops illegal, saying President Cesar Gaviria should have consulted with Congress before inviting them. 
Gaviria said he would ignore the "absurd" ruling, pointing out that U.S. surveillance tech­nology and military training helped Colombia maul the Medellin cartel and kill its leader, Pablo Escobar, last De­cember. 
"Would we be more free, more sovereign and more in­dependent living under the tyranny of Escobar's narco-ter­rorism?" the president asked. 
Much of the criticism has been directed against the pres­ence of 150 U.S. soldiers in Juanchaco, a sweltering village on the Pacific coast, who are on what's billed as a humanitarian mission: building a school and a clinic. 
American combat engineers clad in jungle fatigues lay bricks, hammer nails and mix mortar in a seemingly innocent pursuit. 

But many politicians suspect there is more to the mission given the proximity of the world's largest cocaine cartel in Cali, 60 miles to the east. 
Gaviria's aides have said the Cali cartel -apparently ner­vous about the U.S. troop pres­ence in its back yard -has mounted a disinformation cam­paign to stir opposition to the 
U.S. presence. 
Given the American tradition of nabbing drug traffickers on foreign soil -Honduran king­pin Juan Ramon Matta Balles­teros in 1987 and Panamanian leader Manuel Noriega four years ago -the Cali bosses have reason to be uneasy. 
But grabbing the kingpins cannot be achieved in a single lightning raid. 
A senior law enforcement of­ficial in Bogota said the task may be greater than the Clinton administration envisions, be­cause drug kingpins have cor­rupted many government offi­cials with their billions of dol­lars in riches and because their tentacles reach to many levels of Colombian society. 
Aid flights to resume in Angola 
By CHRISTOPHER McDOUGALL Associated Press 
LISBON 
Three U.S. Senate fact-fmders were forced to cancel their visit Monday to a besieged Angolan city after rebels bombarded the airport with a storm of artillery shells. 
But Angola's UNITA rebels also opened the airport in an­other besieged city to emer­gency relief flights for the first time in a week Monday. 
The shelling of Malanje air­port at dawn forced the cancel­lation of relief flights to the famine-stricken city as well as the fact-fmders' visit. 
The rebels had given safety guarantees to the three Senate staff members to allow them to land, an embassy official said from Angola, speaking on con­dition of anonymity. But rebel artillery pounded the airfield hours before the delegation was to arrive, forcing them to cancel their flight, the embassy official said. 
This was the second time U.S. congressional investigators were forced to abort a trip to Malanje. In December, four members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee were en route when rebel artillery be­gan pounding the airfield. 
"We don't think this is by chance," said a Western diplo­mat in Angola, speaking anony­mously in accordance with min­istry policy. "UNITA apparently doesn't want the world to see how bad things are in Angola." 
Under intense international pressure, UNITA agreed not to fire on airlifts to Kuito, a city of 60,000 which has been sur­rounded by rebel forces for more than a year. The govern­ment in turn lifted a ban on aid to rebel-held areas, a relief offi­cial with a U.N.-sponsored agency said Monday. 
The relief official, reached by telephone in the Angolan capi­tal of Luanda, spoke on condi­tion of anonymity. 

The airlifts were halted a week ago when a 4-month-old unofficial cease fire collapsed and fierce artillery battles broke out throughout Angola's central highlands, about 400 miles southeast of the capital. 
The government estimates rebel shells killed 300 people in Kuito in four days. UNITA said more than 100 were killed by a government bombing of neigh­boring rebel-held Huambo, once Angola's second-largest city. 
Rival anti-colonial forces went to war on the eve of Angola's independence from Portugal in 1975. 
Some 350,000 people were killed before UNITA-the Na­tional Union for the Total Inde­pendence of Angola -signed a peace treaty in 1991 with the government. But fighting erupt­ed again 18 months later when UNITA leader Jonas Savimbi accused the government of stealing victory in Angola's first democratic elections. 
Since then, Savimbi has led his rebel troops to unprece­dented victories, capturing four provincial capitals and seizing Angola's diamond mines and a key petroleum town. 
U.N. envoy Alouine Blondin Beye estimates the war is killing 1,000 Angolans daily from shelling, hunger and wounds caused by the 9 million land mines planted in the coun­try. 
Peace talks between rebel and government negotiators in Lusaka, Zambia, have stalled over UNITA demands for some Cabinet posts in a government of national reconciliation. 
11:1 Yllltuni: Pet DellctiYe(P613):12:ll, 2:45, 5:15 7:ll, 9:30 llllllt Clllct(iiil): 12:15, 2:ll, 4:45, 7:00, 9:15 Bllnk(R): 1:45, 4:30, 7:30, 10:00 ~Old Men(P613): 1:15,4:15,6:45, 9:00 My fltller The H1r1(P&): 12:45, 3:00, 5:00, 7:1~1.9:45 
l'lllllldll,..ia(P&13): 1:30,4:45,7:15, 10:00 
l111t1 WIII(P&l:
4:ll,7:00,9ll Mr1. Deublfh!P613): 4:15~7:15, 10:IXI My_tiirl H(P&l:2:45, 5:00, 7:11, 9:45 
/: 


Government playing a new tune 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 15, 1994 

By CANDICE HUGHES 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Splashed all over the front page, next to a fat headline about budget-busting subsidies was a picture of Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Zav­eryukha, playing away on the accordion. 
The message was unflattering -but clear. Since a recent Cabinet shake-up, the govern­ment has been playing a new tune and it sounds like Zaveryukha's song. 
Thirty-something free marke­teers like Economy Minister Yegor Gaidar and Finance Min­ister Boris Fyodorov are out. Middle-aged managers who cut their teeth on the Soviet system are in. 
In reshaping his Cabinet, Prime Minister Viktor Cher­nomyrdin turned to men close to him in age and experience. The 55-year-old industrialist was never comfortable with re­formers like Gaidar and Fyo­dorov. 
The Communist Party and other opponents of fast, deep market reforms are thrilled. But there is alarm in academia, 

Bosnian policy now 'hands on' 
By GEORGE GEDDA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Clinton administration declared last July that U.S. na­tional interests were not af­fected by the situation in Bosnia. Now, nearly seven months later, it has decided otherwise. 
As recently as two weeks ago, Bosnia merited barely a men­tion in President Clinton's State of the Union message. But since then, events have conspired to make Bosnia a high priority is­sue. 
It's doubtful that any of these events had a greater impact than the one that occurred two Saturdays ago shortly before Secretary of State Warren Christopher placed a previously arranged call to British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd. 
As Christopher was about to make the call, officials said, someone handed him a news account of the shelling in Sara­jevo that claimed the lives of 68 shoppers at a crowded outdoor market. 
For months, NATO had talked about lifting the Serb siege of Sarajevo but had done nothing. Acting with unusual dispatch after the Saturday massacre, the allies took but five days to agree on an ultimatum to Serb forces to either withdraw their heavy artillery from around Sarajevo within 10 days or face air strikes. 
Last July, Christopher was ready to wash his hands of Bosnia. Even as Serb forces were closing in on Sarajevo, Christopher ruled out any U.S. effort to stop the advances, say­ing, "The United States is doing all it can consistent with its national interest." 
"There are some problems," he said, "that defy simple solu­tions." In the fall, when Christopher listed six foreign policy priorities, Bosnia was not among them. His passive poli­cies prompted several State De­partment officials to resign in protest. 
But by Wednesday evening, the administration completed a total turnabout. "Our nation has clear interests at stake in this conflict," President Clinton said in explaining his support for the NATO initiative. 
"We have an interest in help­ing to prevent a broader con­flict in Europe that is most compelling. We have an inter­est in showing that NATO, his­tory's greatest military alliance, remains a credible force for peace in post-Cold War Europe." 
Clinton's decision to push for air strikes was made somewhat easier by a sharp shift in public opinion about the Bosnian situation. Polls found only about a third of the American people favored a military response in January but that figure rose to almost half within three days of the Saturday shelling. 
But, as officials noted, there were other factors at work. There was the anxiety that the Serbs, perhaps emboldened by NATO's weak response, would seek further conquests to the south, with potentially grave consequences for the entire Balkan region. 

LAST DAY to turn in undergraduate housing contracts is FEBRUARY 16 at 5:00 p.m. 311 Main Building Don•t use campus mail!  

There was the seeming in­ability of the Europeans to solve a festering problem in their own neighborhood, leading to appeals in recent weeks by the British and other Europeans for a show of U.S. leadership on the Bosnian issue. 
There was the growing sus­picion that months of empty threats by NATO to retaliate against unrepentant Serbs was having a corrosive effect on the alliance. Clinton alluded to this point at the NATO summit in January. 
CORRECTION 
An that ran yester­day's Observer gave credit to the wrong reporter. The arti­cle, which was about college honor codes, was written by 
financial circles and in the West. 
The new inner circle -Zav­eryukha and First Deputy Prime Minister Oleg Soskovets -is being condemned as a ca­bal of Soviet-era "red direc­tors" who are economic illiter­ates eager to abandon fiscal re­straint and lavish subsidies on tottering state enterprises. 
Fyodorov said their prescrip­tion would be devastating hy­perinflation by year's end. "They seem to think they can make the economy run on pure air," he sniffed on his way out the door. 
Stung by such criticism, Chernomyrdin and his men in­sist their devotion to reform is unwavering. But if they get their way, reform will never be the same. 
Since the shake-up, the Cabi­net has begun discussing an agriculture plan Cher­nomyrdin's own economic ad­viser called hyperinflationary and a "sparkling text on lobby­ing." Fearful of mass unem­ployment and food shortages, it has also relaxed goals for infla­tion control and deficit spend­ing. 
"Let unprofitable enterprises which can be saved, be saved," said Chernomyrdin, who insists that Russia's survival depends on preserving its farms and fac­tories. 
Are Chernomyrdin and his men the most qualified to "save" Russia? Even among the like-minded there are doubts. 
"They don't know what to do with the economy," said econo­mist Nikolai Petrakov, who advised Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. 
Chernomyrdin, who gradu­ated from technical school through a correspondence course, "has no economic edu­cation," Petrakov said. "This is a man who comes from the mi­lieu of the directors of state en­terprises." 
Chernomyrdin's few ideas about economics come from his success running the Soviet gas monopoly, Gazprom. ''I'm proud to be a 'red director,' to have had such experience," Chernomyrdin said this week. 
Armed with a fistful of privi­leges, including sole rights to immense gas reserves and a seat on the Communist Party Central Committee, Cher­nomyrdin turned Gazprom into an international powerhouse. 


Howard Hall Presents: 
Puttin• On the Hits 

Lip Sync Contest 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24 
•  •  •  •  •  
SIGN-UPS IN  
NORTH &  SOUTH DINING HALLS  
FEBRUARY 16-18 THERE IS NO ENTRY FEE 


-~ 


.,... ,.. 0:. •• , ...., .. ,~ t ' ' 
.----~..----·4-----···----··9·--····--..~--·-9·~---··---··~. -­
·-·-~ ··-··· -~ ...... _----........... -.. --.. -.... ---.. --......... -­
BUSINESS 
Tuesday, February 15, 1994 page 7 
FACULTY BUSINESS FORUM 
US increases tariffs on Japanese goods 
Where have 
all the sales jobs gone? 

In 1981, I was a junior in~-------­
college, majoring in market­ing, and dreaming of a career as a product or brand manager for one of those high-powered con­sumer packaged goods com­panies like Proctor & Gamble, Campbells, or Lipton. I can vividly remember my professors Frank Notturno telling me that "the only way" to get into "corpo­rate" with that kind of company was to enter as a sales representative and to start working on an MBA. Though I never entered that industry, I have been afforded the opportunity, over the years, to work with sales and product managers, and to help place students as sales reps with some of those companies. Through it all, the lesson I learned as a junior in college remained true . . . until the last year or so. 
In the last year, my contacts have told me that many of the manufacturers in the industry have either eliminated or significantly reduced their sales forces. For many of these companies, the entry level sales positions, traditionally called "merchandising reps" and viewed as the best training ground for corporate marketeers because he or she learned first hand about the products, trade members' competition, and consumer, have been eliminated, while sales reps are maintained to serve the major accounts. Companies, in effect, are taking the sales function out of the store and handling it at the retail chain headquarters level. 
Today, companies are utilizing food brokers to represent the company in the supermarket, a strategy that was frowned upon five years ago. The prevailing reason for adopting this strategy is to make the company as "lean" as possible in these "value-oriented" times. By "farming out" this function to food brokers the company realizes an "addition by subtraction" gain in its profit and loss statement. 
One might ask, "If this would make the company more profitable in the long-run, why wasn't it done years ago?" First, food brokers are more sophisticated now than ever. Traditionally, food brokers were low-overhead operations using anti­quated methods, providing little training, and paying paltry salaries. They made money by bending over backwards for both the many manu­facturers they represented and the retailers, and by being "thrifty." Today, food brokers are com­puterized, up-to-date in sales methods and train­ing, and are paying better salaries than in the past to attract good, young talent. 
A second reason for the move is that through computer technology manufacturers can control how the product passes from their hands to the consumers' without leaving the computer termi­nal. A National Accounts Manager for SmithKline Beecham pointed out that he could tap into one o K Mart's regional warehouses, for example, and determine how many units of Aqua-Fresh were sold at a given store that day or how many are left in inventory. Therefore, he maintains much of the control he needs even if its the food broker doing the work in the store. 
Why is this important to you? If you are one o those students who share the dream I once had, you need to start to include food brokers into your strategy. Five years ago, I would not have recom­mended this approach, but food brokers have upgraded their operations and represent an entry level avenue into the companies they represent. edge getting into that company's corporate mar­keting department. 
Frank Notturno is a Professor of Marketing in the Department of Business and Economics at Saint Mary's College. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 

11/1193 12/1193 1/1/94 2/1/94 311/94 
ByTOMRAUM 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration decided Monday to authorize sanctions against Japan on cellular phones, increasing pressure on the Japanese after the collapse of trade talks. President Clinton conceded trade war could erupt but warned Japan it stood to lose the most. 
"It's just not acceptable for the United States to continue on the same path" after last week's break­down in talks, Clinton said. 
U.S. officials from the president on down issued Tokyo some of the strongest warnings yet, following up quickly on last Friday's failed trade talks at a summit between Clinton and Japanese President Morihiro Hosokawa. 
"We haven't ruled anything out," Clinton declared. 
Administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity said the United States would announce the beginning of trade-sanction pro­ceedings on Tuesday against Japan on cellular phones. 
The move could lead to pro­hibitively high tariffs on Japanese­made instruments and set the stage for sanctions in other areas as well. 
Although the cell-phone case, stemming from complaints by Motorola Inc., had been in the works for some time, the administration found it fit conveniently into its efforts to ratchet up pressure on Tokyo. 
Clinton called it a "classic ex­ample" of the difficulties U.S. compa­nies face in penetrating Japanese markets. 
In 1989, Japan agreed to give Motorola from one-third to one-half of its cellular phone business in the Tokyo area. But Motorola officials contend Japan deliberately ignored the bargain, holding the company's 
Th13 oollap$e of U.$.l~ tr:llc:le talk$ prompUIQ a White House decision to !liap trade POnaltiP on Japanese cellular phones. Therf) were aJso hints of stronger steps in the V«>tks· President Clinton conceded that such moves could trigger a tradfl war with Japan. 
·--.::::~·,. 

U.S. trade balance with Japan 
percentage of business under 5 per­cent. 
On Tuesday, the administration will declare that Japan violated the agreement, the first step in a process that could lead to stiff tariffs on Japanese-made cell phones, administration officials said. 
And the Motorola decision won't be the end of the U.S. response, one senior official said. 
Many options are under review, not all involving sanctions, officials said. 
These range from ordering a Justice Department study of anticom-

Clinton vows to lead the way to a prosperous economy 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton proclaimed to Congress today that his ad­ministration had put the country on a path of "rising output, increasing employment and falling deficits." 
The administration's first annual economic report stood in marked contrast to the previous 12 Reagan and Bush documents which had tout­ed the job-producing benefits of low taxes and lessening government interference in the free market. 
Clinton praised his $500 billion deficit reduction plan, half of which comes from raising taxes, and argued that government has a role in boosting U.S. productivity. 
"For too long and in too many ways, our nation has been drifting," Clinton said in a message accompa­nying the 398-page report. "For 12 years a policy of trickle-down eco­nomics built a false prosperity on a mountain of federal debt." 
Clinton said his administration had been able to put the country on a dif­ferent economic course in just one year that had replaced "drift and gridlock with renewal and reform." 
While some economists give the Federal Reserve most of the credit, the president said his deficit reduc­tion plan "has been the principal fac­tor in the dramatic decline in long­term interest rates." 
Lower interest rates have sparked an investment-driven economic expansion that has created more pri­vate sector jobs in the past year than were created during the entire Bush administration, the report said. 
"As a result of our efforts, the economy now is on a path of rising output, increasing employment and falling deficits," the president said. 
"With continued deficit reduction, more public investment, a reformed health care system, increased exports and a reinvented govern­ment, we can create the foundations for an even more prosperous America," he said. 
Briefing reporters on the report, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the presi­dent's chief economic adviser, said, "Growth of output increased steadily over the course of 1993 and we believe the expansion will continue. Consumer spending should remain healthy because of continued gains in employment and output. 
"Investment spending should remain strong because of low long­term interest rates and increasing levels of demand," she said. 
One full chapter in the book, which was prepared by the president's Council of Economic Advisers, was devoted to building a case for Clinton's massive health reform pro­gram, which the president predicted Congress would pass this year. 
"The United States today spends more on health care relative to the size of its economy than any other advanced industrial country. Yet we insure a smaller fraction of our pop­ulation and we rank poorly on impor­tant overall health indicators such as life expectancy and infant mortality," Clinton said. 

Insurance: IllForeign companies'share Of Japanesematket: 2 percent. 
•forelon companies'
share o1 U.S. 
market: 
.11) percent. 
practices Japanese auto companies to giving closer scrutiny to tax records of Japanese compa­nies. The United States is also con­sidering bringing a broad complaint in Geneva against Japanese trade practices under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, officials said. 
The administration could also dust off a punitive trade law not used since the early days of the Bush administration, known as Super 301, that gives the president broad pow­ers to retaliate against unfair trade practices of any nation. 
Indiana tapped for steel plant 

By THOMAS WYMAN Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Steel Dynamics Inc., founded only last year and headed by a former Nucor Corp. executive, announced plans Monday for a half-billion dollar rolled steel mill in northeast Indiana. 
The plant will be located on an undeveloped site near Butler in DeKalb County, about 25 miles northeast of Fort Wayne and less than five miles from the Ohio state line. 
The area is served by three railroads and is close to major markets in Chicago, Detroit and Cleveland, said Keith Busse, Steel Dynamics president and chie executive officer. He was former vice president and general manager o the Nucor steel plant in Crawfordsville. 
"We're sitting right smack dab in the middle of it," Busse said at a news conference with Gov. Evan Bayh. Two sites are under considera­tion, one south of Butler, the other southwest of the city of 2,600 resi­dents, he said. ·· 
Busse declined to discuss details o fmances for the $514 million project or to i,dentify investm:s .. 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, February 15, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 

Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Kevin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
New. Editor................ Meredith McCullough  Advenising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry  Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman  
Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Banh  
Photo Editor ................................. ]ala: Peters  OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary's Editor............. Jennifer Habrych  Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nm necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Edimr, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advenising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systerns/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  

SHE'S 10\XiH. SHE'S ~-SHE CONSPIRED WlTH HER HUSBAND AND FRIENDS 'ID CR.lPPI..E THE COMPET1UON. AND SHE WANTS 10 REPRESENT .AMER1c::..<\.. 

Dear Editor: 
"Huh-huh-huh... Cool! These guys want to bring the Grateful Dead to Notre Dame! Let's vote for 'em!" 
I've heard this quote in many a circle lately. Dave ... Matt... you're elected now. I just have one question: Where along the line did you upgrade this from a popularity stunt/joke to a "serious" cam­paign? Was it when you real­ized that a ridiculous platform based on a musical group and free football tickets was just wacky enough to disturb the chances of serious contenders? 
I did have the dubious honor of speaking with Hungeling on the phone. I called after read­ing his campaign poster. Dave was very accommodating -we talked for about twenty min­utes. I was actually impressed at the amount of research he had done. He quoted several figures, and generalized about some others. He took the time to explain his entire platform to me the day before The Observer published that infor­mation. 
The platform, according to his poster and The Observer, includes dissolving student gov­ernment and using funds allo­cated for student government to sponsor "kick-ass events." What exactly is a kick-ass event (aside from a concert)? Dave and Matt will come up with "a proposal for the University demanding that Notre Dame ceases the blatant thievery which it imposes on students who purchase football tickets." 
Their main purpose is to pro­vide the students of Notre Dame with entertainment. They also didn't want to use "parliamen­tary procedure and other 
DOONESBURY 

[JUK£, GOO f3L£55 YOU FOR OfftRJNG 70 JOIN MY SEaJR/lY!?£7AIL-,13UT 
lETM8 WARN YOU ... 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR . 
•
Student Government re utres more 'serious' leaders 

Students might make their atti­tude positive to enable student government, rather than letting Dave and Matt get rid of it. 
I realize this is my opinion of the Hungeling-Orsagh ticket, but I hoped others would think carefully about their vote. Seniors, I hope you didn't vote these two into office because you'll be "out of here" and don't care (based on my own limited experience). Do you want David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh to reflect upon you as an alumnilae? 
If it sounds like I'm taking this too seriously, I am. Someone needed to take it seri­ously before these fellows won the election. Of course, I am re­ferring to their quote from The Observer article: "If and when we rule, student government will not do much of any gov­University dictated rules" to cle for realizing God's own game will not get us free tick­

ernmental work." A modest

achieve their "dream." vision of the natural male and ets. It will probably embarrass 
campaign, if nothing else. I

Well, Dave and Matt, if this female relationship the University, much like you 
think you're lucky that you

parliamentary procedure possible ... Student government will embarrass me. I don't want 
have been taken seriously

doesn't work, why did you two will not get people laid, nor can you to represent me as part of enough by some to get this far. 
bother to run for office, put to­we get students a date." What the student body of Notre "Bringing about significantgether a "campaign," speak at exactly are you talking about? Dame. However, it sounds like social change is not a primarythe debate, or participate in This has nothing to do with the I'm in luck, because you won't concern." Dave and Matt, thisThe Observer's profile? Aren't issues and how they pertain to do much work anyway. 
scares me. It tells me you don'tthose "parliamentary proce­students. Also, I find it hard to The concept of dissolving stu­care about the fact that somedures?" believe that God's favorite band dent government is an interest­women don't feel safe on theirDave also admitted that he wouldn't have made a decent ing one. The most common sen­own campus, that prejudices ofprobably wouldn't be able to studio album in years. timent I observed is support of all types exist here, that theactually get the Dead. Already All of the other candidates this ticket because "student relationship between ND/SMCbreaking one of the main presented a view on the issues government doesn't do any­could be better, or about anystances of your platform, eh? I that showed some reflection. thing anyway." Well, I just got a other issue facing students to­don't see how you criticized Your mere presence in this letter today telling me about a day, except entertainment. 

your opponents for unrealistic election, while it was your class mass and a class service It tells me you are self-cen­campaign promises. The whole right, was enough to throw off project, which I think are very tered. "We will not adjust peo­idea of a platform based on the the balance for the serious con­worthwhile. 
ple," you say. I think you should Dead and free football tickets is tenders who care about the According to the H-0 ticket, adjust yourselves and respect­ridiculous. well-being of other students on these would be eradicated be­fully decline your positions. 

In the issues section of The this campus. cause they are not always 
KEVIN KRINER

Observer's election supplement, Free football tickets ... What thought of as "fun" or "kick-ass 
Junior

these two attacked the question the heck are you thinking? events." I think if this sentiment 
Flanner Hall 

of male-female relations with, Even though you've done re­was true, a contributing factor "Bringing the Grateful Dead to search and it is supposedly fea­might be student attitude Notre Dame will act as a vehi-sible, a boycott of a football toward student government. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I 5UPPO% IT'S THE MAFJNE IN ME, /3UT THERE'S ONE QUAL-ITY THAT I PRIZ& 
AOOVE AU OTHERS-TOTAL-, 
aJMPl&TE /.OYAL7Y.' 

((Ifthe French were really intelligent, they'd speak English." 
--Wilfrid Sheed, 1984 

-------~~----~-----------------·---~ -~­
ACCENT 
Tuesday, February 15, 1994 
SOUND WAVES 
'PHILADELPHIA' AND ALICE IN CHAINS: 
Blockbuster movie soundtrack and new alternative release 
top charts 

Two of the top selling CD's at local music stores for the week ending Friday, February 11, 1993 were the soundtrack from the blockbuster hit "Philadelphia" and Alice In Chains newly released seven song EP "Jar of Flies". 
"Philadelphia" has taken the campus by storm, and so has the music from the movie. Combining the talents of such superstars as Bruce Springsteen, Peter Gabriel, Sade, Spin Doctors, Indigo 

Photo courtesy Epic Records 

Indigo Girls are just one of the many cameos featured on the 'Philadelphia' CD. 
Girls, and the legendary Neil Young creates a masterpiece to fit the movie. 
Bruce Springsteen is the first artist to perform on the CD with "Streets of Philadelphia," the song that opens the movie. It sets the tone for the soundtrack with its thoughtful lyrics. This song accomplishes the task at hand. 
The sultry vocals of Pauletta Washington on the song "It's in Your Eyes" caught my atten­tion, as did Spin Doctors' "Have you Ever Seen the Rain?" and the Indigo Girls' "I Don't Wanna Talk About It." 
Included on the soundtrack CD is "La Mamma Morta,'' the opera which marks a pivotal turning point in Tom Hanks' character's life. I'm not an opera fan by nature, but "La Mamma Morta" is moving and is a key part of this outstanding soundtrack. 
Overall, I highly recommend this soundtrack for its all-star cast and musicianship in differ­ent facets of music. 
Another hot CD purchased by college students at a local music store last week was Alice In Chains' "Jar of Flies". 
Once again Alice in Chains switches directions from their 

Yeah, I want to travel ThisyearAaab. Woah, · W(Jn}preventf!lft 
:· ·:·:::'~: .. 
ast seven song EP differs from "Dirt" in that it is much more acoustically ori­ented. They also enlist the musical talents various string players to add a dramatic ele­ment to the screaming guitar of Jerry Cantrell and pounding bass of Mike Inez, formerly Ozzy Osbourne's bassist. Cantrell and Inez work as a 
Peters brings research, innovation to the classroom 
By BILL FEKRAT 
Accent Writer 
The library versus the classroom has been the continuing debate professors face, balancing their time between research and teaching. The award of a fel­
lowship from the Lilly Endowment
Q) Incorporated to Erskine Peters, pro­...._ fessor of English, shows the benefit 
• ._ of balancing both of these pursuits
\t;; for both student and professor. Q Peters was one of ten professorsr.;. among Indiana's public and private 
ft colleges and universities to receive a .... fellowship for the coming year. The fellowship allows faculty to take a1.. leave of absence for pursuing new areas of research. During his leave0 of absence, Dr. Peters plans to 
V) develop a series of three English
V) courses which will focus on contem­
Q) porary problems such as ecology,\1; racism, sexism, and drugs. 
Peters came to Notre Dame inp 1987 as a visiting professor and -joined the faculty full-time in 1988. 
ft He previously taught at Berkeley for .... eleven years, but prefers Notre 
Dame because of its contained resi­dential environment. "I am always con­cerned about students," he said. He likes the proximity and accessibility he has when students need help outside of class. He keeps this emphasis on his students in 
clear perspective in his research. While taking his leave of absence he plans to do an extensive reading of young emerging black writers. He wants students to read authors who share their current perspective on life so there can be an immediate kinship between the stu­
dent and the work 
that is read. 


Erskine Peters 
Professor of English -----'---'-'-.:..::..::.C:.'--"'-=='-----­
"1 want students to see how all is con­nected," Peters says. He uses literature as a springboard for delving into these issues, but literature is not his sole resource in class. He draws on sources of expertise, such as economics and political science to supplement discussions, and he also refers to art and music. 
"I hope that students will read now and in the future from the point of view that writers are important because of the many interrelated implications they have toward economics, political science, and other issues." 
"I want students to be very informed 
COLLEEN HAGEN 
cohesive unit in this song, showing that Inez has assimi­lated well since his move from heavy metal to more alternative type metal. 
A highlight of "Jar of Flies" is "No Excuses." This song gives Cantrell a chance to create and show his song writing and musical abilities as he wrote the lyrics and arranged the music for "No Excuses." Layne Staley and Cantrell share the lead vocals, which in turn gives the song new depth. 
"Whale & Wasp" is an instru­mental creation whose musical quality proves why Alice in Chains rises above the rest. 
Smooth and soulful are two words to describe "Don't Follow." Layne Staley's vocals carry across to the listener the pain of alcoholism. The final lyrics in the song "Say goodbye, don't follow" catch the listener off guard, and may strike a nerve with some. 
"Alternative" or "main­stream," rock and roll, or coun­try, you might just find some­thing you like in Alice's "Jar of Flies." Alice in Chains' music breaks all musical barriers cre­ated by some listeners. I high­ly recommend this EP to any music lover. 


about current issues and the historical geneses behind thetn." he said. "Students can stay home and not come to college if they are going to accept popular stances without a strong intellectual foundation. By strengthening students intellectually, decisions will not be made out of igno­rance, but out of conscience." 
The younger generation is flooded by popular stances without any intellectual foundation from mass media, Peters said. The responsibility of the faculty is to form a vision to share with students. This is not to advocate demagoguery but to relieve the anxiety of facing the many overwhelming problems of society, so that students have more than base emotions to guide them. 
"You don't have to dwell in nameless­ness." Peters says. He proves this with another project which he will be fmishing during his leave of absence. He is develop­ing a system of Afro-Poetics which names the different sounds used in literary works such as sermons delivered by black minis­ters. Peters tried to teach these works in class, but was frustrated by the absence of terminology, so he created a system to describe the vocal effects that are used in these works. This project will be his most significant research contribution, he said, and it reflects his desire to develop ideas in research so that other students have a means of communication that will promote new ideas and discussions. 
page 9 

MEDICAL MINUTE 

Dispelling The Myths Of Being Sick 
1J IIY• J.llrlllaw N.R.fJU. 

e all l\a¥(llittle bits of med­ic.~. ~d,vi~tliat we believe in. f~(Jy have'tb~~n quoted to us by <>1-tr parents or our room· mates and friends. We hold mto the highest regard. er questioning~their truth. Some of theIll are true, but any are not. With so many o ering from cotds at this dfthe year, here are some old wives tales~ that may be 
ofjnterest to us all! • Cold weather or cold drafts cause colds ~ This is probably the most commonly believed pieee of medical folklore that is uncontestedly false. The onlylfilk•· between cold weather and colds is that continued expo­sure to cold, dry air can dry out a person's mucous mem­branes thus making them more susceptible to catching a cold; however, the virus must be p:J:esent for this to occur. (: Smokers are mote likely than non.~smokers to catch a cold ­
fortunately for those who · here is onE! more reason t, Cold Viruses enter the ough the nasal mucous e Jhe cbE!mi'­··-iif tobacco ()nsistency . o for cold 
···tfi$ bard­person. In fu tobacco 
•... . . e . eatingof the (tiny hairs) that beat back fQrth to keep debris and 
bes out of th~ Mse. sing spreads coldS -It is 

ighly unlikely to spread a cold through kissing. Some viruses such as herpes, the mumps, anQ mono can be transmitted orally; however. the virus that causes the common cold does riot live well in the mouth where the temperature f!:; lower than in the nasal pas­
~ges. 
i&Tfaking Vitamin C every day prevents colds -There is no ~vidence whatsoever that Vitll,min C will help prevent ~9lds. However. some studies llAV~ shown that Vitamin c 

~~.lessen_ the severity o toms and the length o 
one suffers from a cold. eful ~-too much Vitamin causE) stomach. and nttJ iriita'Pon resulting in toms ju~t as unpleasant 
J)o~dttet() a coldJ 
-
.. Jcken soup cure$ a cold .. It 

l probably come as a sur­prjse to many of you. but ~hlcken soup · is actually endorsed by the FDA as being ~as good as anything else in rE!U.eving the symptoms of a cold." No study has shown chicken soup can actually cure 
1:t cold. but it does seem to help relieve stuffed nasal passages and soothe a sore throat. Interestingly enough. some studies have shown that breathing in the vapor o steamy chicken soup works better than plain steamy water ln relieving congestion. The reason for chicken soup's suc­cesli still, remains a mystery. 
Hopefully. some of these "old wives tales" will help those o you suffering from a cold breathe a little easier tonight, -yyhile you eat some chicken soup and enjoy a nice glass o orange juice. Good Luck and §tay Healthy! 

I ­
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I < 
~-~ ~ ~~--~-~~­
page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, February 15, 1994 
You Are Invited to Attend 
"Winning in the -Value-Conscious '90s" 
A Procter & Gamble Presentation on the Key to Creating and Leveraging Consumer Value 
Featuring 
Mike· Milligan Senior Vice President 
New Date: Tuesday, February 15 
5:30p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
Rescheduled from january 20, due to inclement weather. We apologize for any inconvenience. 
Reception immediately following. Food and beverages will be served. Dress is casual. Students from all majors welcome. 
1!:1 
JDrr 

Meet P&G managers from: 
• 
Finance 

• 
Sales 


• 
Management Systems 

• 
Product Development 

• 
Product Supply 

• 
Brand Management 



a

-&Gamble 


Photo counesy of T ample Spons Information Temple head coach John Chaney was suspended by University President Peter Liacouras for a public threat made against Massachusetts coach John Calipari. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks ND ave & Howard 233-2342/10-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun 
OLD BOY RUGBY! Attention all graduate students and faculty members. If interested in forming the N.D. Old Boy Rugby Team/ Social Club, please call Jeff at 634-3004 (leave a message). The club will only form if enough are interested, so please don't hesitate to call. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
CLUB 23 

Wednesday, February 16th 
Trash the Craven 
and 

Victoria's Real Secret 
ILOST&FOUNDI 
LOST A FEW MONTHS AGO POSSIBLY IN DEBARTOLO: All BLACK NYLON JACKET IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X4298 
LOST: long blue winter RICCO coat alleMan's formal on Sat. 
FOUND: long black coat where 
mine should have been. If you accidentally took my coat please call Mike at x4264. 
LOST: U OF I COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE GREY SWEAT· SHIRT AND BURGUNDY SCARF AT HAGGAR OR NOH PLEASE CALL DOMINIC X1166 
LOST: 
NDCiass Ring. Engraved "Duke '95" lost on Feb. 7 at Campus View 
or D-6 parking lot. Please contact x1939. Thanks. 
lost: black leather ladies right glove call beth 4994 LOST-DIAMOND TENNIS 
BRACELET AT ST. ED'S 
SYR ON FEB. 12. IT HAS 
EXTREME SENTIMENTAL 
VALUE-GRADUATION PRE­
SENT FROM PARENTS. 
PLEASE, PLEASE RETURNIII 
REWARD. PLEASE CALL 
JANICE AT x2919. THANKS!!!!! 
LOST-LONDON FOG TRENCH COAT D!JRING THE HOLY CROSS SRY AT THE SENIOR BAR. PLEASE CALL Xtn2. 
WANTED r 
****SPRING BREAK '94**** Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & Padrel110% lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREE! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­MENT-fisheries. Many earn $2000+/mo. in canneries or $3000­$6000+/mo. on fishing vessels. Many employers provide benefits. No exp. necessary! For more info call: 1·206-545·4155 ext. A5584 
Violets are blue Roses are hot If you want a fun time Call us at Knott Wanted 3 willing men to attend the Knott SYR Feb 26th if interested call x0722 
Anyone going to NJ for break? I need a ride. Will help with gas, tolls, whatever. Call Elaine 2342. 
I need a ride to WASHINGTON DC for EASTER break-If you are going that way and have some extra room, please call me. Tara 4-4975 
RIDE needed for 2 to St. louis for Spring Break. Call Christian @ 1226 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­
MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + 
TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl 
(CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, 
ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING 
AND SUMMER SEASONS 
APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT 
TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! 
CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 

Help! 4 desperate girls need ride to long Island or NYC for Spring Break. Will pay gas, tolls, etc. Callx4881 
NEEDED: SPRING BREAK RIDE to NY for 2 
NYC, Newburgh, Mahwah, Poughkeepsie pref. Will help$. Please call Brian or Jason x1130 
SHOE SENSATION Coming to the Concord Mall. Growing retail shoe company seeks enthusiastic, inde­pendent individuals to work full or part time in retail shoe store. Previous experience a plus. Flexible hours. Excellent benefits package and generous discounts available. Potential of $5 to $6 with sales bonus. Please send resume to: Action Enterprises Inc., 253 America Place, Jeffersonville IN 47130 
Ambitious students -Build your own business -Earn a good profit on an attractive new product. Call (800)736-1621 
LOVING BABYCARE NEEDED FOR MON. OR WED. MORNINGS. EXP. +OWN TRANSP. REQ'D. 233-6657. 
FOR RENT 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
SECURITY SYSTEM 
All APPLIANCES 
112 MILE FROM CAMPUS 
232 2595 

PARTY TIME '94-95 Big 6 bedrm. Safe area. Free maid sevice. Beach V-ball & B.B. courts. Furnished. Washer & dryer. 273-0482 or 234-3831. 
Beautiful apt-bike to campus 
Summer+ 94-95 yr 
180/mo w/roommates 
Hickory Village 273-8369 
FOR SALE 

Sale Ford Escort '85, manual, 
$500 or best offer. 273 4028. 
TICKETS 

1-W,INDY/ORUNAPLES, $175 
2196547222/2196548392 StuTix for sale DePaui,UNC,Lville Take any offer Mike4-4367 

Need NC-ND B-Ball Tix lower Arena. Kevin 288-3408 
Chicago Bulls Tix For Sale 2/21 vs. Charlotte 2/23 vs. Golden State 
Good Prices, Good Seats Call Will at x 05n 
RUSH W/ GUEST PRIMUS 3 seats together in lower level of Rosemont Horizon (Mar. 29 @ 
7:30) MUST SELLI SteveX2008 
PERSONAL 
ADOPTION: loving, financially secure couple longs for a newborn to join our family. Please call Nancy and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. 
SPRING BREAK! Student Holidays, the nation's leader in Spring Break vacations offering the ultimate trip to CANCUN, MEXICO! The #1 Student Spring Break Destination from $399 Package includes hotel, flight and parties! Organize a small group and travel for FREEl CALL RICHII-800-360-TRIP 
Do you like to talk on the phone? Come to the Women's Care Center Phone-A-Than Feb.7,8,9,14,15,& 16 
6:30-8:30pm 2nd floor-Admin. Bldg. 
safe trip, jess 
Taylor-Thanks for making our Valentine weekend so nice. The chicken was the best! It almost compares to the Infamous steak dinner on the domestic kitchen fire night! I Thanks for the great dinner and getting me moving on Saturday! Love, Jamie 
To the two cute guys who left hearts on our books Friday night in the library: thanks You made our day! -Mandl Is one of you free Feb 26? 
Just who is CLAVIN-BOY? 
Just who is CLAVIN-BOY? 
Just who is CLAVIN-BOY? 

Service, Community living, Prayer, Simple lifestyle. Sound interesting? Contact Jeff Hammes 1-5521 or Mary Ann Roemer 1-7949. Holy Cross Associates. 
SUMMER JOBS -All LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CAllt-800-786­8373 
Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 

Need ride from Washington DC back to ND Monday after Easter. Will pay. Colleen x4704 
Babycakes, 
Happy Valentine's Dayl 

Thank you so much for every­thing! I love you more than any­thing! 
Violets are blue, 
Roses are red, 
South Bend's warm 
With you in my bed All my heart and love forever, Fruitcake 

TOP 10 REASONS TO PARTY WITH 4T and SUSAH: 
10) Why not? 

9) WE HAVE THE BARITONE SECTION'S VIKING HORNS!! I 
8) Because we LIKE when drunk jerks pour beer over our head 
7) WE NEVER THROW-UP! 

6) If you don't party with us, you'll make our "bad-hookup" list 
5) Some of us can dip! 

4) Because we can drink more than you 
4) We never break parietalsl 
3) YOU CAN TRY -BUT YOU CAN'T CUT US OFFI 

2) Because we don't party with 
LF. 

1) WE NEVER GET BUSTED!!!!! 
I love you, 4T + Susahl Thanks for all the laughs! love always, CB 
And the Magic Rat drove his slick machine, 
Over the Jersey state line. 
Top 12 Things Overheard in 1647 South last Weekend 
12. She kissed you? She licked mel 
11. The front door is stuck shut That's a fire hazard. 
10. So ... where are you sleeping tonighl? 
9. Look! Girls! We have girlfriends! You know them? -no. Me neither. 
8. Can I tackle you? 
7. Just clean off the mirror when you're done. 
6. This is the one you have to fight for the bed. 
5. let's kick it old school! 
4. My neck is so sore. 
3. We're all dating! 
2. Carla. Enough said. 
1. Will you be there in the morning? 
TOP TEN QUOTES FROM GARTH!!! 
10. Sometimes I think I could just eat and eat and eat. .. and eat!! 
9. Excuse me, are those acid washed jeans you're wearing? 
8. You can't mess with Beauty and the Beast Band Aids!! 
7. I was so excited I almost jizzedl 
6. At a Medium Pace. 
5. Please, please play "The River" now. Please... Please!! 
4. Snap-A-Scam, Please get closer! 
3. I've got White Trash in Low Places! 
2. What do you do when you love someone but can't talk to them? 
1. Let's do the pseudo YMCA dance!! 
ToRoughneck:lite Rock 
This,RayDeeO-KOKOMO­
laidBackHat 
Backwards-Found OuiAbout You­
W-DM-JW-RH-Double RR-What 
more can you ask fori 
And the Magic Rat drove his slick 
machine, 
Over the Jersey state line. 
4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. let's help each other. Mad/legal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 
1-800-864-8385. 


-~--~----------,---·---~----­
Tuesday, February 15, 1994 The Observer • WINTER OLYMPICS page 13 
IOC president Samaranch heads to Sarajevo hoping for an 'Olympic Truce' 
By STEPHEN WILSON 
Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway 
IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch left the Olympics on Monday and headed for be­sieged Sarajevo to pay tribute to the city that hosted the 1984 Winter Games. 
The International Olympic Committee withheld details for security reasons, but United Nations relief officials said Samaranch will arrive in Sara-, jevo on Wednesday aboard a 
U.N. flight from the Croatian port city of Split. 
During the one-day visit, Samaranch is expected to tour sports facilities that have been damaged or destroyed in the 22-month-old Bosnian war. He'll also meet with Bosnian Olympic Committee officials and confer with government, 
U.N. and relief agency repre­sentatives. 
Ibrahim Slipicavic, director of the 10-man Bosnian team in Lillehammer, said Samaranch's visit will provide a lift to the people of Sarajevo. 
"It's very important that the world sports family is thinking about Sarajevo, 10 years after we hosted the Games," he said. "Just his presence will mean a lot." 

The trip is the centerpiece of Samaranch's initiative for an "Olympic Truce" coinciding with the Lillehammer Games. He has appealed to warring factions around the world, es­pecially in Bosnia, to lay down their arms in line with an an­cient Greek Olympic tradition. 
Some IOC officials had advised Samaranch against going to Sarajevo for security reasons. But he was adamant about making the trip, and the go­ahead came after U.N. peace-
Back to the basics for U.S. hockey squad 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
GJOVIK, Norway 

Forget the fancy stuff, U.S. Olympic hockey coach Tim Taylor is telling his players. This is no time for behind-the­back moves, thread-the-needle passes and "Sweet Georgia Brown." 
Just get the puck. See the opening. Let 'er rip. 
"A lot of times in practice, we end up with something I call 'the Harlem Globetrotter men­tality' -a lot of razzle-dazzle, pretty plays, every goal has to be a goal-mouth pass and a tap-in," Taylor said Monday, a day after his team opened with a disappointing 4-4 tie against France. 
"The only problem with that is we're not playing the Wash­ington Generals at the Olympic Games. 
"You have to bear down and bury pucks, concentrate on fin­ishing the job. It's a bottom-line factor. When we get a quality scoring chance, we have to bury the puck. Sunday night, we didn't." 
Meanwhile, France took ad­vantage of almost every oppor­tunity it had, scoring four times in 14 shots against U.S. goalie Mike Dunham. 
Taylor didn't say whether Dunham or Garth Snow would start Tuesday's game against Slovakia at Gjovik Olympic Cav­ern Hall. 
The Americans had 32 shots against France but needed two late fluke goals to salvage the tie. And not only did the U.S. team fail to score on seven power plays, it gave up a short­handed goal. 
"All year long, we've been able to do the job offensively. Sunday night, we didn't get it done," Taylor said. "We can't play that well and draw that many penalties out of our op­ponent and not get a power­play goal out of it." 
So Monday at practice, Taylor reduced the game to its most basic element: 
Shoot the puck. hard as you can, into the back of the net. "We worked on just burying the puck," said Todd Marchant. 

top scorer during the pre­Olympic tour but scoreless Sunday. "When we get our chances, we've got to put it into the back of the net. We can't float it in. We can't hope it goes in or trickles through. 
"In practice, we were burying the puck. So I think you're go­ing to see a different offensive game from our team" against Slovakia. 
Taylor believes Tuesday's game will be more offensive on both sides. 
"It's going to be a much more up-and-down game, played at a much faster tempo, just be­cause I think Slovakia will be confident offensively," he said. "I think France thought they had to neutralize us first before they would have any chance at winning the game." 
Led by former NHL star Peter Stastny, Slovakia tied second­seeded Sweden 4-4 in its open­er. The Slovaks are seeded last only because they are new to the Olympics, having gained independence just last year. Slovakia might be the strongest 12th seed in Olympic history. 
keeping forces and Bosnian of­ficials gave their authorization. 
"He's listened to what people have had to say," said IOC first vice president Kevan Gosper of Australia. "He's firm in his re­solve." 
Gosper assumed the duties of IOC chief in Samaranch's ab­sence. 
Samaranch was accompanied by a four-mao delegation: Mexican IOC member Mario Vasquez Rana, head of the As­sociation of National Olympic Committees; Belgian member Jacques Rogge, chief of Euro­pean national Olympic commit­tees; IOC director general Francois Carrard; and IOC ad­viser Fekrou Kidane. 

The group left Lillehammer Monday afternoon for Oslo, where they boarded a private jet offered for the first leg of the trip. 
The Olympic Truce initiative was endorsed in October by the 
U.N. general assembly and re­ceived the formal backing Monday of French President Francois Mitterrand. 
"Everything must be at­tempted to put an end to the drama that is strangling Bosnia," Mitterrand said. 
1994 games coldest ever 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway 
Fans risk frostbite. Biathletes' rifles are freezing to their cheeks. It's almost too cold to allow cross-country ski races. 
Lillehammer may look charm­ing, but it's playing host to the most frigid Winter Games ever. 
Temperatures overnight have been dropping to minus-10 de­grees, and only barely edging above zero during the day in much of the Olympic region. 
The International Olympic Committee's research depart­ment confirmed what specta­tors could feel in their fingers and toes: This is the coldest Winter Games yet, colder on a sustained basis than the 1980 Olympics in Lake Placid. 
Events have been canceled at other Winter Games because it was too warm, too windy or too snowy, but never because it was too cold. So far, that record is holding-barely. 
Under international regula­tions, major cross-country races cannot start when the 

should raise the minimum tem­perature for starting to zero. 
"Today it was patently unfair for those who started first, both with respect to glide (on the snow) and breathing problems in such harsh cold," he said. 
Most of Norway's Olympic racers used asthma medicines, which make them less vulner­able to the effects of the cold, according to Rokke. On Moo­day, Norwegians took the gold and silver medals. 
John Aalberg, a Norwegian­
, born racer with the U.S. team, was too cold to stop for an in­terview after his 43rd-place fin­ish. "Talk to me while I'm walk­ing," said Aalberg, of Salt Lake City. "My hands are frozen." One of his teammates, Marcus Nash of Fryeburg, Maine, was sure the race would proceed, cold or no, when he saw the sellout crowd. "With this many people packed in here, I knew they weren't going to cancel the race," he said. "It's freezing out here, but this is the place to be." 

temperature is under minus 4. Dr. Ingar Lerem, chief medi­The temperature at Birke-cal officer for the Games, said beineren Ski Stadium at 7:30 several spectators at skiing 
a.m. Monday, three hours be-events, as well as some night­fore the men's 30-kilometer time merrymakers in down­race, was minus 18. town Lillehammer, have suf-
At 10 a.m., it was still below fered frostbite. the limit, but officials queried "But the Norwegian fans are the racers, got positive re-accustomed to the cold," he spouses, and decided to start said. "They are well prepared on time. When the first racer and well informed." set off at 10:30, it was zero at Lillehammer used to have the starting line. but still under cold spells like this frequently, minus 4 at one of the check-he said, but the past three win-points on the course. ters were much warmer. 
Race officials said they were Few of the Alpine skiers have confident, based on the trend of complained of the cold, and the previous days, that the tern-skaters compete indoors. But perature would rise during the the biathletes already are con­race. But Norwegian team doc-cerned, and their events don't tor Kjell Eystein Rokke said the start until Friday. start should have been delayed. 
"Ski racing in very cold Kerryn Rim, an Australian weather can lead to injury of biathlete, said the metal rifles sensitive windpipes," said are so cold at practice that they Rokke, who thinks officials stick to the shooters' cheeks. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editors Viewpoint Copy Editors 
Applicants for both positions should have a strong interest in journalism, editing skills and a knowledge ofpage design. Applicants should submit a resume and 1-2 page personal statement to Suzy Fry by 4 p.m. Sunday, February 20, 1994. For additional information, please contact Fry at 631-4542. 
-

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS 
Racer killed in Daytona crash 
By MIKE HARRIS Associated Press 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. 
Before its first victim of 1994 could even be buried, the treacherous Daytona Interna­tional Speedway oval took an­other life on Monday. 
Rodney Orr, a 33-year-old racer from Palm Coast, Fla., was killed in a one-car crash that Gary Nelson, the Winston Cup director called "the worst I've ever seen." 
Orr's Ford Thunderbird went out of control and flipped in turn two on the high-banked 2.5-mile oval and smashed into the concrete wall at the top of the banking, the roof over the driver's side of the car taking the initial impact. 
The driver, defending cham­pion of the Goody's Dash sedan series, was taken to Halifax Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead upon arrival at 10:06 a.m. EST from massive head and upper body injuries. 
The racing community, which was to bury longtime racer and friend Neil Bonnett -killed in a one-car crash in Daytona's turn four on Friday -later Monday in Hueytown, Ala., was deep in shock after this latest blow. 
Bonnett was 4 7 years old and trying to renew a career in which he won 18 Winston Cup races and became one of the most popular drivers in the se­ries, while Orr was just trying to get a foothold on the big time of the dangerous sport. 
"We've got to take a look at what's going on," said Rusty Wallace, the 1989 Winston Cup champion and the survivor of a while, flipping crash on the backstretch during last year's Daytona 500. 
''I'm tired of losing my friends on this racetrack and there's no reason for it to continue," he said Monday in the garage area. 
But Wallace wasn't suggesting that any changes be made to the track. Instead, he talked about the driver's taking care of themselves and others on the racing surface. 
"Don't just get out here and mash the gas and throw your brains in the trunk," he said. "A lot of team owners think that's what you have to do to go fast. You don't have to do that." 
There seemed to be no pat­tern to the nasty accidents at Daytona this month, which also include a pair of ARCA stock car accidents. 
Andy Farr came away with a fractured sternum on Thursday after he hit the turn-four wall, knocking a chunk out of the concrete and tearing down 7 5 feet of catch-fencing at the top of the wall. Then, during Sun­day's ARCA race, Mark Thompson sustained a concus­sion, three broken ribs and as­sorted cuts and bruises in a spectacular, flipping crash in the grass along the backstretch. 
Chip Williams, a spokesman for NASCAR, the sanctioning body of the Winston Cup divi­sion, said the crashes did not appear to be connected in any way. 
"There are a lot of theories out there in the garage area, but we don't have a theory right now," Williams said. 
Some drivers indicated that gusting winds might have had something to do with both of the fatal crashes, but Williams said, "We don't have any rea­son to think that the winds had anything to do with it. Gusty winds are kind of a tradition of (Daytona's) Speed Weeks and they don't affect these 3,500­pound cars all that much." 

Lake Speed, a journeyman driver who finished second in the 1985 Daytona 500, said the prevailing feelings at the track are sadness and confusion. 
"I just can't think of anything that's really, different this year, or why something like this would be happening," Speed said. "Probably the only thing I can think of is that there were an awful lot of entries this year, maybe more teams with good sponsorship. Some of those teams may be feeling more pressure. It might make some people take a little more risk." 
Speed, the sound of cars prac­ticing at high speed echoing behind him, added, "You can't win the race if you're not run­ning, so you don't ever want to wreck. But you've got to run as hard as you can, too. It's the old Catch 22 of this business. You've got to run on the ragged edge but try not to get over it." 
Added Kyle Petty: "It's not a safe sport, nobody ever said it was a safe sport. All you can do is make it as safe as you can under the parameters that you work under. And these are the safest race cars in the world, bar none." 
Orr is the 27th person and the 25th driver -the list includes a boat racer on the infield lake and a spectator run over by an­other fan -to die at the track since in opened in 1959. He also is the 26th driver to be killed in a Winston Cup stock car since 1952. 
Juniors! 
JPW Ticket Packet Pick-up Tuesday February 15, 1994 4p.m. to 9p.m. Cavanaugh Room LaFortune You must have tickets to attend events!!! 
-------------~-­
Tuesday, February 15, 1994 



Reduce ... Reuse ... Recycle. 
SUMMER JOBS IN CINCINNATI 
Property Management firm in Cincinnati is looking for individuals to work as landscapers. Work full time maintaining grounds at apartment communi­ties throughout Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky. Send a letter of interest to: Mark Ahern, 255 East Fifth St., Suite 2300, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202. A pre-employment drug test will be required. 
WINNER ·GRAND PRIZE·I993 SUNDANCE FILM FESTIVAL 
"TWO ENTHUSIASTIC THUMBS UP! 
ATERRIFIC MOVIE." 
-Siskrl &Eberl 

"**** 
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL AMERICAN MOVIE OF 1993." 
-Om Kehr. NEW YORK DAILY NEWS 
RADIANT AND INTELLIGENT."
"****
-John Anderson. NEW YORK NEWSDAY 
"AN AMERICAN INDEPENDENT GEM. 
Ashley Judd is ajoy to watch:' 
-Thelma Adams, NEW YORK POST 
THURSDAY FEBRUARY 17TH 7:00 PM SNITE MUSEUM OF ART ADMISSION $2 (no 
ACCLAIMED DIRECTOR VICTOR NUNEZ WILL PRESENT 
HIS FILM AND ANSWER QUESTIONS FOLLOWING THE FILM. PRESENlED BY N01RE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEA1RE WITH HELP FROM I.S.L.A. AND GENDER STUDIES 
Tuesday, February 15, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WATTERSON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
MOM 1\1'\D Dt>-0 IXlN.'\ 
Vf\1..\lt HP--?.0 WORK 
1\1'\D OR\G\N.f\U"'N fl.'S i'f\\j(_\-\ f\S IH~'( SA'{ 11-\~'( 00. 
' 1994 Watterson101st by Un1versa1 Press Synd1cate 2 ·IS ~ 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
Wow~  l,..JLu..  'lov  
LooK  A.r TH t'S  
1 

W£ATHE R.. . . . 
"I. l>oN"T f_vEN 
ANt> IT:; 
0NL"\ •.EBRuAR'-\· · 
'Sore. ..-.& IN 
f"E.lHI.OAR'J I I 
Irs 
59 Eventual bonus? ,.,..--......--.....---r.,--,r.-­62 Cream-filled 
sandwich 63 Debouchment 64 Internet patrons 65 Blubber 66 Yeltsin veto 67 Koch's 
predecessor 
DOWN 
1 Calculator work 2 Radar blip 3 Thieves' 
hideout 4 They're loose 5 "Yikes!" 6 "The Afternoon 
of a--" 1 In the thick of a First name in 
perfumery 9 Venture 
NEEO 

1 Rumble 6 Not fancy? 10 Difficult obligation 14"--ofdoor die" 15 Bing Crosby bestseller 16 Guthrie the 
younger 11 Hearty entree 20 Kibbutzniks' 
dance 21 Reverse 22 Must 23 Place to crash 25 Kipling novel 26 Tasty side dish 35 Mortgage 
matter 
G~..ov~;;,l 
36 Words before "in the arm" or "in the dark" 
37 Detective's cry as Them in "Them!" 39 Common key signature 40 Composer-­
Carlo Menotti 41 Cpl., for one 42 Feed a fete 43 Stood for 44 Yummy dessert 47 Cherbourg 
chum 48 Latin I? 49 Lamb Chop's 
"spokesperson" 52 Oceania republic 55 Windmill segment 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Japanese mats 11 Olympic hawk 12 Bed-frame 
crosspiece 
29 Subj. of a 13 "Mikado" Clinton victory, executioner 11/17/93 
18 Sport whose 30 Key name means 31 Midway "soft way" alternative 
19 Polo, e.g. 32 River nymph 24 Circulars 33 The Gold Coast, 25 Carpenter's tC!day 
woe 34 "A votre -!" 
26 French bread? 39 Java neighbor 
27 High-priced 40 Columbus, by 
spread? birth 28 "... and eat 42 "Nancy" or " "Cathy" 

DAVE KELLETT 

Fo~trl E.'"'"' 
!NC.HE. s OF "S~ow 
Tomottttow.. I HATE. :5ouT>\ "BENt>· 



The Observer 
is always lookingfor talented people to write news, sports or features. Photographers and illustrators are also needed. 
Visit our office on the 3rdfloor ofLafortune to find out more. 
43 Puss 52 Conniving 53 Coach Nastase 
45 Server on skates 54 Rock's Joan 
56 Sphere46 Dos + cuatro 57 "Cheers"49 Take third habitue 
50 Take on 58 Alternatively 
51 "-on Film" 60 Lady lobster (1983 book set) 61 Ungainly craft 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
.. 
THURSDAY 
• 

SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, February 15, 1994 
Irish swim teams coast past Wisconsin-Milwaukee 
By KELLY CORNELIS Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's swimming and diving teams came away with two de­cisive victories last weekend when they visited the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. 
The women controlled Satur­day's meet from the start, eas­ily handling the Panthers, 140­85. 
The Irish men, however, did not have such an easy after­noon. After jumping to an early lead, the squad had to fend off a late Wisconsin-Milwaukee rally in which the Panthers claimed six out of the last seven events. The Irish prevailed in end with a 132-111 victory. 
The Irish women dominated the racing events, placing first in all but two. Several under­classmen contributed to the vic­tory, with many swimmers cap­turing their first collegiate win. 
Sophomore Mary Wendell got her first win in the 100 free, while freshman Michele Licht­enberger made her victory de­but in the 200 back, winning the race in 2:13.24. Freshman Elizabeth Rice continued her success by placing first in the 200 free with a time of 2:00.21. 
Notre Dame took both first and second in the 400 IM be­hind the strong performances of Joy Michnowicz and captain 
Ready for Spartans 
Kristin Heath. 
"This meet was a good indi­cation of how fast we are going to swim down the road," said junior Jenni Dahl, who won the 50 free. "It was an opportunity to see where everyone stood before the championship meets." 
The men also benefited from powerful efforts by under­classmen. Sophomore George Lathrop was a double winner, finishing first in both the 200 and 500 free. Freshman Rich Murphy performed well in the long distance events, placing second in the 500 free and win­ning the 1000 free in 10:18.67. 
"It was a great way to end the dual meet season," stated Lath­rop. "It will help us as we pre­pare for the championship meets." 
The Irish recovered from two consecutive losses with their victory this weekend. 
"It was great to win again," commented Coach Tim Welsh. "It was a very competitive job by both teams-we had some freshmen and sophomores win some big races, which was ex­citing." 
This meet marked the end of Notre Dame's regular swim­ming season. The MCC Cham­pionships begin Thursday, February 24 at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The Observer/Jake Peters 


By KIMBERLY BERO 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team will attempt to overcome a four-game losing streak tonight when it travels to Goshen College. 
The Belles, now 5-12 on the year, know very little about Goshen's game tactics. 
"We don't know much about the other team, but hopefully we can work well together to pull off a win," said freshman guard Sarah Kopperud. 
The Belles will be depending on their four stalwart players: senior Anne Mulcahy, Koppe­rud, sophomore Jennie Taubenheim, and freshman Katy Lalli. 
"Sarah Kopperud doesn't al­ways lead in scoring, but she really takes control and sets the pace," said freshman guard Katie Kozacik. "Anne Mulcahy and Jennie Taubenheim are just all around consistent play­ers." 
Saint Mary's boasts a strong defense that promises to make scoring tough for the Goshen team. 
"Our defense has been really strong, especially our man-to­man," said Kopperud. 
However, after concentrating on passing and timing in prac­tice the Belles hope to display a stronger offense tonight. 
"Our offense has been really sloppy," said Kozacik. "Hope­fully we'll be setting stronger 
Inside SPORTS 
picks and making crisper pass­es." 
Although the Belles' team chemistry has flourished off of the court, the team is still young and somewhat unsure of itself. -"Everyone gets along well, but we are often inconsistent on the court," commented Kopperud. "It often takes us a while to gel when substitutions come into the game." 
Despite major setbacks in the past few weeks, the Belles are confident going into this game against Goshen. 
"We've designed some new defensive plays and I'd really like to see them successfully implemented," said Kozacik. 
"We've been working hard and we'll be tougher mentally," added Kopperud. 



The Notre Dame men's tennis team is prepared to avenge last sea­son's s 4-3 loss to Michigan State tonight in the Eck Pavilion. 

Ohio State 

Winter Olympics 
Temple 
Basketball coach Randy 
Head basketball coach 

The festivities in 
Ayers and the Buckeyes 
John Chaney will server

Lillehammer continue 
lost leading scorer Derek 
a one game suspension 

with mixed American 
Anderson for the season. 
for his antics following 

success.
I
f! 
the U Mass game. 
see page 11 
see page 11
see page 12-13

~ 
Lillehammer'94 





