
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Friday, December 9, 1994• Vol. XXVI No. 66 
Women led in early days of Church 
By CHRISTINA TECSON News Writer 
"Women Leaders in the Be­ginnings of Christianity" was the subject of a presentation by Mary D'Angelo, associate pro­fessor in the theology depart­ment and director of gender studies, yesterday in the Decio Conference Room. 
Angelo made reference to passages in the New Testament to bring attention to the many mentions of women in the Bible. These women were leaders in the early Christian mission. 
"There were relatively low gender boundaries and a rela­tively high degree of social mobility," Angelo said. "There was quite a lot of crossings of boundaries." 
She stressed the importance of the woman's role in Roman times, especially their social status and their family life. These characteristics were made distinguishable by a slide presentation of funerary mon­uments, mostly from the Augustinian period in history. 
The presentation was the last of a semester-long series of lectures sponsored by the Notre Dame Gender Studies Concentration. The Gender Studies forum will continue each Thursday afternoon at 
12:15 p.m. in the spring semester, where a different gender issue will be discussed each week. 
"It's informal enough that people can ask questions. It's more of a discussion than a lecture," said Marie Kramb, coordinator of the gender stud­ies concentration. 
"The response has been very positive. We get anywhere from 10 to 25 people a week, mostly graduates and faculty," Kramb said. She indicated, however, that it is open to ev­eryone and anyone may attend. 

~150 YEARS~ 
~_,' ·;o.rn 
i c 
·~;ltf' .

•. •r'. 
~ 
SAINT 

z
• Y'S 
>
t ()I J I t. I 
I:""' 
~NOTRE DAME·IN~ 


! 
1 
j 
The Observer/Jake Peters Student Body President and Vice President Dave Hungeling and Matt Orsagh say they have been effecting change in student governemt despite the failure of several planks of their platform. 


The more things change ... 

This is the last of a three part series examining student gov­ernment and its projects. 
By KATE CRISHAM Associate News Editor 

When 2, 730 students cast their votes for the ticket of David Hungeling and Matt Or­sagh in last February's student body elections, they did so for a variety of reasons. 
Some were hoping for a chance to see Jerry Garcia perform at Notre Dame Sta­dium. Others were enticed by the idea of free football tickets. But most students realized that there was very little chance that Hungeling and Orsagh would be able to dissolve stu­dent government, bring the Grateful Dead to campus, or provide free football tickets to the student body. to change the staid attitude of 
Instead, they joined the duo's student government in hope self-described "campus wide, that it would provide more fun grass-roots social movement" activities for students. 

In their platform, Hungeling and Orsagh stated that student government should "work at bringing fun things to campus. There is no need to spend time or money on anything which will not result in the direct pleasure of our student body." 
They promised that "we will stay committed to our goals and we promise that we will not run student government as it has been run in the past." 
But seven months into their administration, with the exception of the decor, little seems to have changed in the student government office. Plans for a spring benefit con­cert have fallen through, while projects like The Guide and the Board of Trustees reports, which the duo promised to cut, 
see GOVf/ page 4 

Business College receives MBA society charter 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Society of Human Resource Management President Patricia Gilmore awarded a charter to the Notre Dame School of Business. 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Business School recently received a char­ter from a division of the Soci­ety of Human Resources Man­agement, an association for MBA students that is affiliated with both the regional and na­tional Societies. 
At the ceremony, held yes­terday at the Hurley building, the club was officially present­ed with a national charter by Regional President Patricia Gilmore. 
"Human Resources Man­agement is a profession that fo­cuses on the human element in an organization including the recruiting, selection, and train­ing," stated the club faculty ad­visor Professor Bob Vecchio. 
The regional and national lev­els of SHRM are oriented to the professional side of the field with over 50,000 professionals as well as students composing its membership. . 
With the establishment of this division comes an opportunity for business students to view those actually involved in the work and related processes of human resources management. 
The previously existing Hu­man Resources Club at the Business School wanted to affiliate with this division in order to "interact with profes­sionals in the field of Human Resources Management, giving the students a deeper quality of experience. The purpose of this club is to involve students with people on the professional side," said Professor Vecchio. 
The interaction with other society members will offer the students possible opportunities such as intern-like experience during the summers, as well as a shadowing program in which students follow a professional for a day, viewing first-hand what is actually involved in the field. 

The local Michiana chapter also issues an annual scholar­ship to a Notre Dame MBA stu­dent "on the basis of grades, social involvement, as well as the ability and desire to remain in the field," according to Gilmore. 
At the school level, the club 
see CLUB/ page 5 
This is the last issue of 
The Observer until January 18, 1995. Have a safe.and happy holiday se~Sofl. ,,§.ee .yqu next yelJrt .. 
·=·':==:·:~:;:;im:=:':'== ·=:t:::=====· 

• ' I f 
I 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
It's that time of 
•


year again 
Do you find that you have some pretty an­noying habits that you'd like to lose? Or that pro­crastination really does not pay off? Or that mak­ing verbal contact with your parents in times not of need might be good thing? Well now is the time to change a few things. As the year draws \O a close, we should start thinking about some New Year's Resolutions. Here are a few of my suggestions. 

Our rooms are a good place to start. Perhaps we could resolve to put some sort of a lock on the snooze bar of our alarm clocks. Or maybe we could come to the realization that our sinks won't clean themselves. Neatness is key, so maybe we should live so as to find no excessive use for Lysol. We really 
should not have to go through more than one 
can per semester. 
And then there is respect for our friends. Perhaps we could all resolve not to take the batteries from our roommates' cameras or remote controls for our walkmans. Or how about if we give our friends kinder, gentler nicknames that reflect their inner beauty instead of names like "Queeny," "Gimp," "Scratch," or "Fishy." Maybe we could resolve not to learn so many cruel jokes involving gypsies. 
Next comes the laundry issue. We could resolve not to be that guy or girl who is so antsy as to throw other's clothes out of the washer and onto a table just so we can get our load in the machine. Furthermore, maybe we could stop wearing our jeans for three weeks before washing them. While we're at it, we can change our sheets more than one time per semester. And we should also wash our baseball caps before they get that brown ring around the inside. 
Perhaps we could opt to live more eco­nomically, too. Maybe we shouldn't order so many late night pizzas. However, we should probably buy a box of Kleenex every now and again instead of continuously stealing rolls of toilet paper from the bathroom. Also, we should probably stop digging back through our laundry bags to find the "cleanest" of the dirty clothes. And we should resolve not to look through the lost and found box for warm, new mittens. We could also resolve to cut down on the moving or parking violations. 
Lastly, I think we tend to be a bit lazy on Sundays. Maybe we could get some work done instead of sitting around watching the Star Wars Trilogy. 
Maybe our campuses would be better places if we all would resolve that, in the future before making important decisions, we ask ourselves, "What would Greg Brady do in a situation like this?" 
There are also those who resolve not to make resolutions since they often last only a week at best. Either way, here's hoping that 1995 is one of our best years yet. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TOOAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Edward lmbus Suzy Fry Krisri Kolski Lab Tech Brandon Crendura 
Sports 
Rian Aikey Production Belle Baucisra Accent Hearher Gibson Tom Roland Graphics Theresa Aleman Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxcepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhC' Associated Press. All reproduction rights arr reserved. 


The Observer • INSIDE Friday, December 9, 1994 
• WORlD AT AGLANCE 
Commerce Dept. closes New England fishing grounds 

GLOUCESTER, Mass. 

New England fishermen who once roamed freely are being forced to cast their nets on shrinking seas, increasing competition and causing overcrowding. 
First the World Court gave half of Georges Bank to Canada. Then, on Wednesday, U.S. regulators ordered the 6,600 square mile area once considered the nation's richest fishing ground closed for three months starting Monday in an effort to rebuild depleted stocks of cod, haddock and flounder. 
As the new restrictions force fisher­men elsewhere, regulators are wonder­ing how long it will take for other fish­ing grounds to become barren. 
Jim McCauley, one of 17 members on the New England Fishery Management Council, warned that if the Gulf of Maine is not protected it could be depleted within two years. 
On Thursday, the council voted unani­mously to draw up proposals to allow fish stocks to recover from decades of overfishing. 
Plans range from an all-out ban on fishing of cod, haddock and flounder in the Northeast, to a patchwork of bans on certain types of fishing gear in cer­tain areas. 
Source: National Marine Fisheries Service AP/Wm. J. Castello 
James Brown wanted -again 
AIKEN, S.C. 

James Brown, still on probation for aggravated assault and failing to stop for a police officer, is again a wanted man. This time it's for allegedly knocking his wife to the floor. An arrest warrant was issued Thursday charging the "Godfather of Soul" with criminal domestic violence for alleged­ly shoving his wife, Adrienne, during 


an argument at the couple's home in Beech Island. Aiken County Sheriffs spokesman Tim Hoffman said police responded to a 911 call from Mrs. Brown, 44, about 11:30 p.m. Wednesday. Mrs. Brown told deputies that during a scuffie, Brown, 61, shoved her to the floor, where she struck a chair. cutting her lip. Brown left before police arrived, but Hoffman said he was not considered a fugitive. "I think he'll turn himself in as soon as he finds out about the warrant," Hoffman said, who also noted that criminal domestic violence is a misdemeanor punishable by 30 days in prison and a $200 fine. 
Cocaine washes up on Texas beach 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND, Texas 

It's not something anyone's likely to claim at Lost and Found: 92 pounds of cocaine washed up on the beach A vacationer on a stroll came across the load Tuesday afternoon and flagged down a park ranger. "What prob-, ably happened is that it fell into the water during trans­fer, said a customs official. The U.S. Customs Service took possession of the 34 bricks of cocaine, each individ­ually wrapped in plastic. Authorities said they thought the drugs had been in the water for at least two weeks. They had no suspects. Dale Wisley, group supervisor for the U.S. Customs Service, said anyone finding drugs should not touch them because they could be booby­trapped with explosives or chemicals. Moving the drugs might also subject the finder to a drug-possession charge, he said. 
"English Only" law unconstitutional 
PHOENIX 
States can encourage use of a common language, but not by outlawing other tongues, a federal appeals panel said in ruling Arizona's "official English" law unconstitu­tional. "Free speech includes choice of language," the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco said Wednesday. The law ordering the state and local gov­ernments to conduct all business in English interferes with the ability of non-English-speaking citizens to com­municate with their government, the panel said. The Arizona law allowed other languages to be used in bilin­gual and foreign-language classes and as needed to pro­tect public health or safety, protect the rights of defen­dants or victims, and comply with federal law. But it prevented non-English-speaking residents from commu­nicating effectively with the government, Judge Stephen Reinhardt said in the decision. Furthermore, he said, state universities couldn't issue diplomas in Latin and judges presiding at Jewish weddings couldn't wish cou­ples good luck by saying "Maze) tov." 
Russian ballet tumbles into new era 
MOSCOW 
Their Soviet-era privileges lost, dancers and musicians from the Bolshoi Theater staged a 20-minute strike at the start of the ballet "Giselle" today to demand higher pay and new management. The audience was apparently sympathetic to the performers' cause, explained by singer Yevgeny Raikov. The Bolshoi has suffered in recent years from insufficient funding, the flight of talent abroad and internal bickering. The theater has not pro­duced a new ballet in nearly 15 years and its 218-year­old building needs an estimated $300 million in repairs. The Ministry of Culture has proposed overhauling theater management by setting up a board of directors and a contract hiring system. Performers, however, fear a board of directors would reduce their influence. and throw injured and older employees out on the street. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 01994 Accu-Weail"ler, Inc. Preasure ~ ~ ,.-1\
H L rn I5SI rn:J 0 ~ 8 "¥ L...i~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via AsiJodllted Press 




Friday, December 9, 1994 
Labeling, diversity, 
•


pn01e concerns 



~---------------------------------------------------------j 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Justice Department's Bureau of lent crimes suffered by black Justice Statistics said. males age 12 to 24 were the 
Young black males consti­most serious types of non-homi­tuted 17.7 percent of all homi­cide violence, such as robberies cide victims, even though they and aggravated assaults. White were only 1.3 percent of the males in the same age group 
U.S. population, the report said. suffered mostly simple assaults 
Young white males made up involving no weapons and re­a smaller share-10.3 percent sulting in little or no injury. -of those killed in single-vic­Two-thirds of the violent tim homicides during 1992, al­crimes against blacks under though they were a larger age 21 were committed by peo­share of the overall population ple who also were under 21, at 7.4 percent, the report said. the study said. The overwhelm­Young white males were killed ing majority of crimes against at a rate of 11.7 per 100,000. black males were committed by 
Black men over age 24 were other blacks, while whites com­victims of homicide at a rate of mitted the great majority of vio­
67.5 per 100,000, compared lent crimes against white with 7.8 per 100,000 for white males. men. Criminologist Alfred Blum­
The Bureau of Justice Statis­stein, a professor at Carnegie­tics also said that among males Mellon University in Pittsburgh, age 16 to 24, blacks were 1.5 said his research has shown times more likely than whites that gun homicides committed to be victims of all types of vio­by young people have doubled lent crime. since the crack cocaine epi­
About two-thirds of the vio-demic began around 1985. 
Looking for a place to stay during: c..-Junior Parents Weekend? c..-Graduation Weekend? c..-April Stud. Activity Events? c..-Home Football Games? Alumni Renting Out Historic Home For ND Special Events 
•Close 
to Campus (Just 2 miles Away!) 

•Safe 
Neighborhood 

•Competitive 
Rates 

•Fully 
Equiped Kitchen 

•University 
Club access 

•Summit 
Club access 

•5 
private suites w/ individual baths 

•Accomodates 
up to 14 



Available to Show by Appointment Call Helen for More Information @ 219 287-8163 

By WENDY LOWDERMILK News Writer 
Labeling and diversity are major concerns on campus, ac­cording to students gathered for an informal discussion on race and ethnicity. After show­ing a film about diversity in the workplace to the students gath­ered at Pasquerilla East, Carrie Pugh, assistant director of Mul­ticultural Student Affairs, posed questions to the stu­dents. 
Several students shared their personal experiences and of­fered their opinions on how to eliminate the problems of labeling on campus and "com­munication" was the answer given by many. 
"We need to get into posi­tions where we're telling our story," said Sister Joris, the rector of Pasquerilla East. "We've got to get to know each other as persons." 
Pugh said that the Multicul­tural Student Affairs Office en­joyed holding discussions in residence halls where they could get in touch with stu­dents directly and initiate dis­cussion about issues such as stereotyping and differences between students on campus. 
She also encouraged the stu­dents to utilize the resources the Office has to offer. 
-~­

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, December 9, 1994 
wouldn't. 39 percent of the stu­the little things and had just dents said they didn't know one big concert," he said. who if they would vote for the According to Farmer, the pair a second time. problem does not lie in Hun­
"I think they're doing fine," geling and Orsagh, but rather said Pasquerilla West sopho­in the institution of student gov­more Beth McCarthy. "I ernment itself. thought they would actually "The personalities of Dave take their position pretty seri­and Matt haven't kept student ously once they got in, and I government from being its own think they've done a pretty personality and entity," he said. good job." "Student government has al­
While Zahm junior Mike Shaf ways produced costly, cumber­didn't expect Hungeling and some projects that provide little Orsagh to bring the Grateful tangible benefits for students." Dead to campus, he did expect "This is usual standard stu­student government to sponsor dent government under a fa­more entertainment and stu­cade of wackiness," he said. dent-directed activities. "The Corbett-DuBay or King­
"I think they've done an av­LeFort ticket would have been erage job," said Shaf. "I ex­exactly the same. There would pected them to be different have been no Fabio, no vibrat­than the previous presidencies, ing chair, and no hammock, but but they're not different." it would have otherwise been 
"I think they could have cut the same." 
The correct hours for the Perkins® Family Restaurant and bakery located at 423 S. Dixie Way in Roseland are: Sun.-Thurs. 6 a.m.-I 0 p.m. Fri. & Sat. 6 a.m.-Midnight. We apologize for any inconve­nience this may have caused. 
Govt 
continued from page 1 
still exist. Rather than dis­solving student government, Hungeling and Orsagh seem to be simply following in the foot­steps of their predecessors. 
"Students were promised less student government and a con­cert," said Hungeling Chief of Staff Tyler Farmer. "What they've gotten is student gov­ernment bureaucracy as in past years and no concert. Students have a right to be dissatisfied." 
"I don't think things have been going tragically,'' he said. "I just don't think we've worked diligently to get what we promised done. What we promised was a different mind­set." 
Hungeling and Orsagh, how­ever, reject the idea that they have failed to keep their cam­paign promises. 
"People who are intelligent and at Notre Dame should have realized that our campaign was more of a statement than a platform," said Hungeling. "If they were fooled, that wasn't something intentional." 
"When we ran, we bit off a bit more than we could chew," he said. "Both Matt and I have done a lot of work, which most average students don't realize. Even if we're just giving money to different forums and speak­ers, we're still working to bring fun and diversity to campus." 
According to Farmer, the problems began when Hun­geling and Orsagh placed the organization of the benefit con­cert, which formed the crux of their campaign, under the aus­pices of ND Aid, the organi­zation which was to receive the profits from the concert. 



Only $1, 770. Or about $33. a month.' 

I 
J 

636 81250 with CD-RO"f;_AflPW Color Plus 14" 
Display, AppleDesign" rv:ybaarri and mouse. 
Only $3,680. Or about $66. amonth! 

PoM!r Macintosh" 
8100/80 81500, Af1Jlt Mtdlip/e Scan 17 Dispkly, A/1JieDesign" J(eyboarrJand mouse. 

"By putting all our cookies into someone else's jar, we took our responsibility away from ourselves," said Farmer. "And since we were bored, we took up Frank Flynn's call to arms, things like The Guide and the Book Fair.'" · 
The publication of this year's Guide has been one of student government's more controver­sial actions. In their campaign platform, Hungeling and Or­sagh pledged to cut funding for the $5000-per-semester Guide. 
A recent Observer poll re­vealed that 62% of the student body do not use The Guide. However, Hungeling remains optimistic that with time and effort, The Guide can effectively "improve the quality of under­graduate education." 
"One thing we're working on for next semester is to get ads for The Guide," said Hungeling. "It's still new, and maybe we just haven't pursued enough profs to get behind it or maybe some profs just didn't think it's important." 
Farmer said a bloated budget has prevented student govern­ment from focusing on fun, stu­dent-directed activities. 
"This student government promised to be completely non­conventional," he said. "Now we're non-conventional on the side of spending money fool­ishly." 
Farmer cited the Board of Trustees reports and posters warning off-campus students to have their homes watched over semester break in the residence halls as examples of financial irresponsibility. 
"I thought we could function­ally shut student government down, have fundraisers and service projects on a twice a semester basis, and give much more money over to an enter­tainment effort," Farmer said. "Every thousand dollars that we blow is a thousand dollars less that we can give to SUB for their concert. 
According to Hungeling, how­ever, the projects such as the Board of Trustees reports and The Guide have served to bene­fit the student body. 
"We're h-aving a clothing drive in March, and we are go­ing to have a student referen­dum on the cable issue that we submitted to the Board of Trustees," said Hungeling. "However the students respond, the University will listen." 
"The Administration listens to us, and we've handled our­selves differently than in the past year," he said. "All their images of us before were nega­tive, but now they realize that we're regular guys who are willing to work." · 
Student reaction is varied on the overall job that Hungeling and Orsagh are doing. 
The Observer asked one hun­dred students in an unscientific poll for their opinions on the Hungeling Adminstration. 52 percent approved of the job Hungeling and Orsagh have done, while only eight percent said they did not. A startling 40 percent said were unsure or did not know if the pair had done a good job. 
Thirty-five percent of the stu­dents asked said they thought the Hungeling/Orsagh govern­ment has not fulfilled its promise to bring fun to this campus, while 40 percent said they have achieved this goal. Twenty-five percent replied they were unsure. 
But 43 percent of the respon­dents said if given the chance they'd vote for a Hungeling Dr­sligh ticket again, as opposed to 18 percent who said they 

Beforeyou needto makeasingle 
payment, 7,776,000secondswill 
have passed,the baseball strike 
mayfinallycometo an endand 


theterm"GenerationX"will have 
..
beenusedonetoo manytimes. 
BUY AN APPLE MACINTOSH NOW. PAY FOR IT LATER." erals without making asingle payment for 90 days: Combine thatwith no hassles, We're not just making it easier for you to buy aMacintosh~ we're making it easier no complicated forms and already great student pricing, and the easy-to-use for you to buy something else you really need-time. Because for alimited Macintosh is now incredibly easy to buy. The Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day time, with the Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan, you can Deferred Payment Plan. The solution that gives you the Ap 1 ­own aMacintosh personal computer, printer, CD-ROM drive or other periph-power every student needs. The power to be your best~ p1e­
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-5pm 
Hurry in today and shop before the holidays! 

'DeferredApple Campuler Loan offer expires February 17, 1995. No paytnenl of intmsl or principal will be requiredfor 90 days. (Some resellers may require a deposiJ 1o bold merchandise while loan 1r being ll{PrOVed.) ln/eresl 
ao::ruing during Ibis 90-dayperiodwill be adtkd /o principal, and /be principal amount, as so increased, willlbertafler bear inleresl which will be indudhi in /be repayment scbedu/e. 'Manlb/ypayment lr an esJima/8 based on /be fo/Jcu:ing informalicn: For lbe Power Madnlcsh 8100 rystem shown here, apurchaseprice of$3,864, which includes 5% sales lax; induding leanfees, /be lalaJ lean amcuntlr 14,088.89, which mull.r in a montblypayment obllgalicn
of166. For /be /Worma IV6 CD rystem shown here, apurchase price of11,85850, which includes 5% sales lax; including leanfees, /be /otol lean amcunt is 11,966.67, which mull.r in a mcnJbly payment ob/igatltm of133. Ccmpuler rystem prices, lean amcun/s andsales /axJis may vary. See J!lUr authorizedAfPie Campus Resel/er or rejJresenlaJivefor current syslem priais, lean andlax amcun/s. loans arefor a minimum ofIT,OOO /o a maximum of110,000. lflu 
may ltUe ouJ mere /han one lean, bullbe iota/ ofa1J leans cannot exc«d $10,000 annually. A55% loan orlginallcn fee will be added /o /be requesled lean amcunt. 7be lnlertsl mle is varlabk, based on /be rommen:ialpaper m1e plus 5J5%. For/be monlb ofNovember, 1994, /be inlmsl m1e was /0.85% wilhanAnnUlli f'err;enJage 1/akof12.10%. 8-year/can 1erm wilh ncprepaymenipenally. 7be mcnJbly paymenJandibeAnnllllil'eranlagellaksbown =mze /be 90-day dtfermen/ ofprlncipaJ andin/eresl described above and nc olber tk[ermenl ofprlncipaJ or lnlertsl. SludenJs may deferprincipal payments up 1o 4years, or unlilgraduallcn. DeformenJ will c.ha"JJB your monlbly paymenls. 7be Apple Compuler Lean lr subject /o credit approval. Apple Compuler Loan and90-Day Deferred !'rJymenl Plan offers available only /o qualifying students, facu/ly and slajf. O{fm available onlyjrom A[:{Jie rw an lllllhoria!rlA[:{Jie Campus Restller or re{Jr'estltlali ©1994Apple Compu/er, Inc. All rigbls reserv«i Apple, /be Apple /ego, Macinlarh, Performa and '"/bepower /o beyour besl" are regirlered ~ofAfPk Compu/er, Inc. AppleDesfgn andPower Macinlo.lb are hr1demarks ofApple Compu/er, Inc. 
Friday, December 9, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Club 
continued from page 1 
will bring in guest speakers from the field of Human Re­sources Management and will hold discussions of current re­lated issues. The student chap-
r 
ter will also sponsor workshops as well as information exchanges with professionals. 
The formation of this club and the experience it brings "will open people's eyes to the opportunities available and it will also develop and strength­en the department," said Club President Andrea Edington. 

Contrc~versy surrounds Summit 
By RITA BEAMISH 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Latin American leaders threatened Thursday to raise such controversial subjects as Cuba and U.S. immigration at the Summit of the Americas. President Clinton is hoping to keep the focus on trade. 
The weekend summit -fea­turing 34 of the Western Hemi­sphere's heads of state and ex­cluding only Cuba -· gets under way Friday evening with Clin­ton's formal greeting of the leaders and a ceremonial din­ner. 
Arriving Thursday night, Clinton told a group of summit volunteers and organizers that the leaders were "joining hands together not because we agree on everything but be­cause we agree on the impor­tant things, and because we be­lieve in the promise of freedom, the promise of democracy and the promise of open, free trade." 
Participants agreed to make free trade the focal point for the summit, the first such gathering since 1967. Clinton wants to keep the momentum going from his recent successes in pursuing open markets around the world. 
But Mexico's new president is promising to bring up the touchy topic of immigration. 
----=e=RA~s=-M=u-:-:::s:-=a=o=o=K=s--. 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories olf Books 

• 
25,[)()() Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Dllt<lf.Print Search Service: 


$2CD 
• Appraisals large and small 
Ernesto Zedillo said he will try to get summit presidents to repudiate California's Proposi­tion 187, which would deny ed­ucation and health services to undocumented aliens, the Mi­ami Herald reported Thursday. 
That would ruffie Clinton ad­ministration plans to keep the contentious subject off the sum­mit agenda, though Clinton campaigned against the suc­cessful California ballot mea­sure.Assistant Secretary of State Alec Watson declined to say how Clinton might respond to Zedillo's idea, saying of the Mexican, "He's free to raise any issue he wants." 
Clinton also may get caught up discussing Cuba -another non-agenda item that puts the United States at odds with some Latin governments. 
Argentine President Carlos Menem, a strong critic of Cuban President Fidel Castro, said Thursday that he will make sure the summit discuss­es democracy in Cuba "even if I have to struggle alone." 
Chile's President Eduardo Frei said Clinton was right to exclude Cuba from the summit on grounds it is the only nation in the hemisphere without democracy. But he reiterated Chile's opposition, shared by some other Latin nations, to the longstanding U.S. trade em­bargo against Cuba and said he expected at least informal dis­cussion of the subject. 
The White House is billing the summit as the capstone of a successful U.S. trade liberaliza­tion effort, which saw congres­sional passage of the North American Free Trade Agree­ment last year, followed by the Asia-Pacific trade conference last month and congressional approval this month of the in­ternational trade pact known as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 

Clinton on Thursday signed the legislation to approve the 22,000-page GATT, authorizing the United States to join 123 countries in lowering trade barriers. 
Clinton, who has embraced free trade on the theory that new international markets will create U.S. jobs, said the United States "will not succeed and we will never restore stability to the lives of the working people of our country until we have more folks buying what we sell." 
"Some say the answer is to try to just hunker down within our borders. That is clearly not an option. No country can es­cape the global economy," he said before leaving Washing­ton. 
In Miami, the summit leaders are expected to endorse a hemisphere-wide free-trade arrangement by 2005 -an earlier timetable than the re­cent agreement by Asia-Pacific partners to create free trade by 2020. 
By 2005, Canada, the United States and its Latin and Caribbean neighbors will com­prise a $13 trillion market with more than 850 million people, according to U.S. projections that also show the United States stands to gain an increase of 2.5 million jobs. 

Happy 20th Birthday, 







JEJr~lt:lt~ 
Love, Mom, Dad, Jaime, Eric, & Gibson 


Fill Your Head ... 
Counseline Gives You the Information You Need. 

Counseline: 

lx7793 
Counseline is an audiotape information service sponsored by the Psych Club and the University Counseling Center. Counseline offers information on stress, anxiety, relationships, depression, self­esteem, eating disorders, and anger. Look around your dorm for our list of tapes. The phones are open Mon-Thurs 4pm to 12am. We are here to provide you with the information you need. 
----~-------~--~~ ~--~----~--~-----­
Friday, December 9, 1994
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
--------~ il~ 




~itMcQl ®rruit ~ ®W®[frru rnm ®rruit is making an effort to see that this university stays committed to ensuring that every qualified student has the opportunity to attend Notre Dame, regardless of financial status. 
We need to know what W©aJJ think about NO's [F~[fl)~[fl)~~~O #\~@1, whether or not 
•

you rece1ve any. 
PLEASE FILL OUT A FINANCIAL AID SURVEY TODAY AND RETURN IT TO THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE OR TO THE ENVELOPE IN YOUR DORM! 
Off campus: Pick up your survey in the Student Government Office, 2nd floor LaFortune. 



-------­----­ ------~-­ 
Friday, December 9, 1994  The Observer • NEWS page?  
Post office to change commemorative stamp  Military cuts announced By JOHN DIAMOND Associated Press U.S. military base cuts  
By RANDOLPH SCHMID defended the stamp as  The Army and Air Force announced sweeping personnelWASHINGTON  
Associated Press commemorating a crucial event  cuts Thursday. The Air Force will trim 11 ,700 civilian jobs  

WASHINGTON 

The post office, under heavy White House and diplomatic pressure, is scrapping plans for a stamp recalling the atomic bombing of Japan. 
"We are changing the design of the stamp because of the im­portance of U.S.-Japan rela­tions at this critical time in U.S. foreign policy, and because President Clinton conveyed his views that it was appropriate to do so," Postmaster General Marvin Runyon said Thursday. 
The stamp -which was to depict a mushroom cloud fol­lowing a bomb blast-will .be replaced by a design showing President Truman preparing to announce the end of the war. 
Controversy swirled around the stamp almost from the moment last month when its design was disclosed, along with many other stamps planned for 1995. Japanese of­ficials were outraged over the design and filed protests. 
The Postal Service initially in the war that needed to be part of the series of World War II stamps spread over several years. 
Runyon said he was particu­larly mindful of the feelings of veterans -who make up a large part of the postal work force. "Many gave their lives for their country and we will always be grateful for their paying the ultimate price," Runyon said. 
The post office's governing board discussed the contro­versy at a closed meeting re­cently and directed Runyon not to change the stamp unless Clinton called for the move. 
He acted after two calls from White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta, who expressed Clin­ton's concern and urged that the stamp be changed. 
White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers had commented Wednesday that while the atomic bomb helped speed the end of the war "there could be more appropriate ways to de­pict that event." 
Happy Birthday to our 
Bathing Beauty, 
ffi\rro~®~<ID 
rLarrultrru®rrQ 
From your Cavanaugh friends 



brazier® 

uA fun place to be on St. Rd. 23!" St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood Near Martin's 
Try our new Chili 


99"'~RM•. 
size  
Blizzard or  
I I L  Breeze 12, 16, or 21 o~II ~IINot valid with any other offer. Limit 2. Good at St Rd. 23 'bnly. .J L------­ 

New Soupscol: Soonl ' · · 
$299 II 
·---II -. II
Not valid With any other offer. 
Limit 2. Good at St Rd. 23 Only. 

.J L 
The Army and Air Force an­nounced personnel reductions Thursday that will cut tens of thousands from the military's uniformed and civilian ranks over the next two years. 
The Army will go from 12 to 10 active-duty divisions and cut thousands more positions from the support ranks for a net re­duction of about 10 percent over the next 19 months. Army cuts will fall most heavily on Kansas, Colorado and Texas with lesser reductions in Cali­fornia, Hawaii, Louisiana, Maryland and Kentucky. 
An Air Force plan cuts 11,700 civilian positions from the work force in the next seven months as the first phase in a reduction of 38,000 civilian positions. As of Sept. 30, the Ailr Force had 152,747 civilians on its payroll. 
Under the long--anticipated Army plan, the 194th Separate Armored Brigade at Fort Knox, Ky., and the 3rd Brigade of the 25th Infantry Division at Scho­field Barracks, Hawaii, will be inactivated in the next seven months. 
In the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1, 1995, the Army will close down headquarters and supporting units of the 1st In­fantry Division --the famed "Big Red One" -at Fort Riley, Kan., and the 4th Infantry (Mechanized) at Fort Carson, Colo. 

One brigade at Fort Carson will also be inactivated with the remaining brigade falling under the command of the 2nd Armored Division at Fort Hood, Texas. Two brigades remaining at Fort Riley wiH be aligned with divisions stationed in Germany. 
Two Continental Army Head­quarters units, one at the Pre­sidio in San Francisco, the 


f/.
Barbecue 
1
Sandwich 
(reg. price $1.59) I 
~I
Not valid with an other a~ Limit 2. Good at sl Rd. 23 'On~. .J 

over the next seven months. The Army's cuts hit soldiers as well as civilians. 
• 
CALIFORNIA Presidio of San Francisco Total cuts: 95 military, 72 civilians Percent reduction: Army vacating 

• 
COLORADO Fort Carson Total cuts: 4,000 troops, 85 civilians Percent reduction: 20 percent 

• 
HAWAII Schofield Barracks Total cuts: 2,500 troops, 40 civilians Percent reduction: 10 perc11nt 

• 
KANSAS Fort Riley Total cuts: 5,600 troops, 140 civilians Percent reduction: 34 percent 

• 
KENTUCKY Fort Knox Total cuts: 1,150 military, 50 civilians Percent reduction: 6 percent 


Fort Hood 

• 
LOUISIANA Fort Polk Total cuts: 1,300 military, 30 civilians Percent reduction: 11 percent 

• 
MARYU,ND Fort Meade Total cuts: 91 military, 32 civilians Percent reduction: less than 1 percent 

• 
TEXAS FortBii11s Total cuts: 2,100 military, 80 civilians Percent reduction: 12 percent 



Fort Hood Total Cllts: 1,200 military, 15 civilians Percent reduction: 2 percent 

ource: Pentagon AP/Carl Fo 
other at Fort Meade, Md., will be inactivated with some of the relatively small number of peo­ple working there being re­assigned to the two remaining headquarters units in Atlanta and Fort Sam Houston, Texas. 
The Army plan also involves shifting of several units in an effort to balance the force be­tween the Atlantic and Pacific theaters of operation and to streamline overall operations. 
Among other changes, the 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment will move from Fort Bliss, Texas, to Fort Carson, Colo., and will share the post with the brigade that is to remain there. Two Patriot missile defense batteries, the 108th at Fort Polk, La., and the 31st at Fort Hood, will move. to Fort Bliss, which is the Army's Air Defense Center. 
In all, the Army plan cuts 45,000 active soldiers and 644 civilian positions and brings the active duty force down from a current level of 540,000 to 495,000. By comparison, when the down sizing of the Army began in 1989, the force stood at 770,000 active-duty soldiers and 18 active divisions; at the end of 1996 the force will have been Clllt by 36 percent. 
But the Army reduction from 12 to 10 divisions is not quite as large as it seems on ·paper because under the new configu­ration, each division will consist of a full three brigades. The current 12· divisions include several that have only two ac­tive-duty brigades. 
Because of the peculiarities of the military, these reductions don't mean that thousands of soldiers will be receiving pink slips. Soldiers in units that are being deactivated will have the opportunity to be reassigned to other units. The reductions in the total Army force are being achieved by a combination of attrition and incentive buyouts. Recruitment of new soldiers continues despite the reduc­tions. 
The Army cuts that were de­tailed unit-by-unit in a Pen­tagon briefmg Thursday add up to about 18,000. In addition, the Army will be reducing its 74,000-man force in Germany by about 10,000 over the next 19 months. 
"I 

-~--~-------~-~~-----~----~---,--------------------­
page 8 
The Observer • NEWS Friday, December 9, 1994 
Orange County reassures investors 

By VIVIAN MARINO 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Financial advisers sought to assure the public Thursday that municipal bonds were still among the best long-term, tax­exempt investments despite the Orange County, Calif., bank­ruptcy filing. 
The value of municipal bonds and municipal-bond mutual funds fell in reaction to the county's decision Tuesday to seek bankruptcy protection. 
Among the biggest losers were uninsured bonds issued by governments in California, along with the more than two dozen mutual funds that invest in them. 
By Thursday, prices in the municipal bond market ap­peared to have stabilized. Some dealers, in fact, said they saw buying opportunities ahead, even in California. 
"You show me some Orange County bonds and I'd be inter­ested in buying them," said James Crooner, who heads the tax-exempt bond-management division for the Bank of New York. 
"I heard that some of them were selling for 50 cents on the dollar. I would mortgage my house and buy them at that price," he said. 
The reason for Crooner's con­fidence is simple: Orange County bonds are likely to re­cover their losses in price be­cause the region, home of Dis­neyland and the rich and fa­
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
mous, remains "a very, very
Getting in the Christmas spirit 
strong, very affiuent area of the 
Bill Jaworski, with his 10 week old son, pause for a photo before country." 
going to hear Handel's "Messiah. • 
"Co.unties don't put up an 

OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS: 
out-of-business sign as compa­nies do. You're not going to see new maps of California with a hole in it where Orange County used to be," he said. 
Other bond dealers agreed, speculating that the county would make good on the inter­est payments and principal owed thousands of bondhold­ers. There's been no indication so far that payments would be suspended, but dealers said there could be some delay. 
"The worst thing you can do is sell right now," when bond prices are low, Crooner said. 
Orange County sought bank­ruptcy protection after disclos­ing a $1.5 billion loss to its investment fund, where it puts taxpayer money and its own borrowings to work in the financial markets. 
Whatever its outcome, the Orange County debacle under­scores the simple fact that all investments are risky. 
The $1.3 trillion municipal 
bond market is especially vul­
nerable given its wide diversity. 
More than 50,000 state and lo­
cal government agencies issue 
bonds to build roads, sewage 
systems, airports or schools. 

The value of each bond issue, including the interest rate it carries, depends on how the is­suer is rated, based on financial health and ability to repay loans. 
"If there's a lesson to be learned by Orange County ... it's that you should be fully in­formed about what you're hold­ing," said Jeremy Diamond, publisher of the biweekly newsletter "Grant's Municipal Bond Observer." 
Crooner said municipal in­vestors should stick with issues rated M or better by the three major rating services, Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch. 
Happy 2Qth Birthday, 



THEREsA HENNEsSEY 
Love, Mom & Dad, Patrick, Kieran, Billy 

South Bend Police have agreed to provide a home watch service for students over Christmas break. Police will 
,

check on your house or apartment up to three times a day while you are away. There is no charge for this service. 
' l ~ 
t 
To participate in the Home Watch Program, follow these easy steps: 
~ 
1. 
Telephone South Bend Police at 235-9201 and ask to sign up for Home Watch. 

2. 
Identify yourself as a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, or Holy Cross student. 

3. 
Tell police what day and date you are leaving and when you will return. 

4. 
Be prepared to give police a contact person and telephone number in case there is a problem at your residence. 

5. 
Be sure to notify police if you return from break early. 


In addition to Home Watch, take other steps to protect your home: 
1. 
Stop mail and newspaper delivery. 

2. 
Leave lights on a timer. Consider leaving a radio on too. 

3. 
Double check to see that all doors and windows are locked. 

4. 
Keep valuables out of sight. 

5. 
Take really valuable property home with you or store it with someone who will be here during break. 


Be smart -protect your house while you are on break! 
This ad is sponsored by Student Government, the Off-campus Presidents, and Notre Dame Security. 
I 


----------~------­
Friday, December 9, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 9 



Fight rages over orphanages 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY 


BEN! 

WE LoVE YouR STYLE. 
LoVE, 
MoM, DAD, 
KEVIN & KATIE 

Voted #1 in Michiana 20 TANS ALMOST FREE 
WITH THIS ADI FOR A VERY LIMITED TIME! 
expries Oct. 7. 1994 

CALL TODAY 272-7653 
FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD. 23 UNMRSITY COMMONS. SOUTH BEND, IN 



GIGANTIC 
END OF SEASON SALE 
EVERYTHING ELSE IN THE STORE AT LEAST 20% OFF 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
SPECIAL HOLIDAY HOURS: MONDAY· FRIDAY 9:00AM· 4:00PM CLOSED AT 1:00PM ON DEC. 20 PARK ON LYON'S BASKETBALL COURTS IF ON CAMPUS 
NO OTHER DISCOUNTS APPlY 
With America" would deny welfare and housing payments to unwed teen-age mothers, sending the money saved to the states to set up alternative pro­grams, including orphanages. 
Dorgan and Conrad said they agreed with the Republicans that something had to be done to discourage children from giving birth to children, and to get rid of incentives that encourage unwed motherhood. 
Conrad suggested that, in­stead of looking to orphanages as a model from the past, Congress instead look at the settlement houses that helped new immigrants learn the tools they needed to survive at the turn of the century. They also said Congress should continue to vigorously pursue programs to track down parents who do not provide child support. 
In recent days, Gingrich has spoken of orphanages as an idea of last resort, implying that they would be used only in cases where parents were unfit or children were abused, for example. 
"We say to a 13-year-old drug addict who is pregnant, you know, put your baby in a Dumpster, that's OK, but we're not going to give you a board­ing school," he said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
But Conrad and Dorgan said the GOP proposal goes much farther. 

Voted# 1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, 1993 


Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
For Carry Out or Reservations 
(219)272-7376 
130 Dixie Highway South (on U.S. 31 next to Randall's Inn) 
Survey shows public divided over Gingrich 
By JOHN KING 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
N e w t Gingrich's early public reviews sug­gest he is on a path to becoming the most polarizing 


major figure Newt Gingrich in American politics, a distinction some Re­publicans worry could ulti­mately hurt the party. 
In making this point, inde­pendent pollsters and some Republicans draw a compari­son to President Clinton and data showing that support for policy positions slips when Clinton's name is attached. 
But that dynamic is far more likely to affect a president than the speaker of the House, the job Gingrich, R-Ga., will as­sume Jan. 4. And in any event, the public's questions about Gingrich don't appear to have adversely affected its view of the GOP agenda. 
A Times Mirror Center for the People and the Press sur­vey released this week, for example, showed 52 percent supported the Republicans' plans while 28 percent opposed them and 20 percent· 

Not a Franchise! 

A Family Owned Business 

257-1100 
"This is How Pizza is Supposed to Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 

For Fast Delivery 
Call 272-2EAT 
$2 off large pizza with Student ID 

weren't sure. 
But the same survey sug­gested Gingrich is not sharing in the glow of the Republican election victory: 25 percent said they have a favorable opinion of him, while 28 per­cent had an unfavorable view. Thirty percent said they had never heard of Gingrich, and 17 percent said they didn't know enough to offer an opin­ion. 
Given Gingrich's prominent media profile since the elec­tion, it is somewhat surprising that nearly one-third of the public says it has never heard of him. But just five months 

J
ago, 65 percent said that, so his name identity is rising rapidly. 
In May 1990, by comparison, 

1
nearly half of Americans had never heard of Rep. Thomas j Foley, who by then had been House speaker for nearly a year. But of those who had, Foley was rated favorably by 20 percent and unfavorably by just 9 percent. By March 1991, Foley's name recognition has risen substantially, and 41 per­cent viewed him favorably while the percentage viewing him unfavorably ticked up to just 10 percent. 
In Gingrich's case, the per­centage viewing him unfavor­ably has gone from 12 percent in July to 28 percent in the sur­vey conducted last weekend. 
"Gingrich is a lot more parti­san than Foley," said GOP poll­ster Neil Newhouse. But, he said, "How he is viewed this month is irrelevant to how he is viewed after he actually takes power." 
Indeed, many Republicans predict Gingrich's ratings will improve dramatically if House Republicans cut committees, adopt a balanced budget amendment and move quickly on other reforms. "The mes­sage and agenda he has is ex­actly on the mark of what peo­ple want," said GOP pollster Ed Goeas. 
Democrats are aggressively 
trying to muddy Gingrich's im­
age, repeatedly attacking his 
politics as extreme as well as 
demanding an ethics investiga­
tion into the financing of a col­
lege course he taught. "He is 
the most dangerous man in 
America to the Democratic 
Party," Goeas said. 
While optimistic Gingrich will 
use his formidable political 
skills to boost his image, even 
many of his biggest fans are 
worried about the early polling 
trends. 
Main & Jefferson 
Hours 
Mon-Sat 11:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m.Sun 4:00-9:00 p.m. 
By NITA LELYVELD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Two Democratic senators ­one an orphan -slammed in­coming House Speaker Newt Gingrich on Thursday for his proposal to send children of some poor, teen-age mothers to orphanages rather than give them welfare. 
"Your proposal that poor kids be snatched out of their homes simply because their parent or parents are poor is callous and wrongheaded," North Dakota Sens. Byron Dorgan and Kent Conrad wrote Gingrich. 
"It represents a coldhearted, anti-family retreat to the long-failed past." 

Conrad said at a news confer­ence he was orphaned at age 5, when both his parents were killed by a driver who fell asleep at the wheel. He was in the car at the time. 
He said he was very fortunate to have had loving grandpar­ents who could take care of him. 
"But if you look at what is happening across the country, there are millions of loving families who are poor and are on assistance." 
Conrad said it was wrong to disrupt those family networks unnecessarily. 
The welfare reform proposal in the Republican "Contract 



~~a~p, cY.·/Sp./n. 


~aocu~ a?~ ~A~~~tce. ~ 2?&4tuW:7ladem~eme/~ $o-.v ~tee. ~ ~~u/ ~~ ~emff .9'~io-n !?lld rutd~ .A~iJ-~ot0 Aaa??o-~v!un ~o-.v ~tee 
. . .. " ... . .
; 


--------~..._,1 
~-----~-~--­
Friday, December 9, 1994 The Observer • BOSNIA UPDATE page 11 
Politicians trade blame for Bosnian debacle 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
Is the United Nations at fault, or Western Europe? Does Washington raise false hopes? Solutions to Bosnia's war are scarce, but there is plenty of linger-pointing as governments dodge the blame for the deba­cle. 
The nastiest name-calling is transatlantic, confronting NATO with perhaps its most bruising internal crisis. 
U.S. politicians accuse Euro­peans of being gutless. Euro­pean leaders snipe back that they at least placed peacekeep­ers in Bosnia. In all the West­ern powers, commentators de­pict their own governments as shameful appeasers. 
"One is curious to know what the West will do if, God forbid, they one day have to do on a big scale what they were inca­pable of doing on a small scale," the French daily Liberation said in an editorial Thursday. 
France and Britain, the two 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iii~~~~ 
The Management of Building Services would like to wish all of the Building Services team a very Merry Christmas and a prosperous New Year! 
Michael Adamek Anselmo Alonso Pauline Alvarez Thomas Anthony Maxine Appleby Nancy Balderas MaryAnn Balog Ann Barr Bertha Barrozo Stella Batson Kathy Beasley Charles Bell Wanda Benjamin Randy Benninghoff Louann Bestle Gerald Bickel Michelle Bocardo Carl Borsch Barbara Bour Collene Brady Cathy Chenez-Brewer 
Mamie Briscoe Arnetta Brock Suzanne Brzezinski Lucille Budny Eldonna Cabanaw Phyllis Campbell Elvira Caron Marlene Carter Sarah Champagne Barbara Clark Deborah Clark Wanda Clayton Rose Clemans John Cogan Wanda Colburn Michael Coley David Conrad Alejandro Cornejo Victoria Cotton Richard Danner Rose Darr Nancy Dausman 
Joe Davis Ronald DeKerr Harold Ditsch PhilliQ Dixon Alva Dover Cheryl Duncan Sherry Eby David Edwards Dolores Eppolito Lee Farner Patricia Feltes Dorothy Finney Henry Flis Gemge Foree Ella Frederick Ofelia Fuqua Luz Galicia Nancy Gambee 

Thank you for sharing your skills with us during 1994! 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
biggest contributors of peace­keepers to Bosnia, were out­raged last month when the U.S. government said it would no longer help enforce the arms embargo on Bosnia's Muslim­led government. 
Worried about NATO's soli­darity, the Clinton administra­tion softened its rhetorical sup­port for the Muslims. 
Then Thursday. President Clinton offered to send up to 25,000 American troops to Bosnia to help the United Na­tions evacuate peacekeeping forces. 
The decision represents a sharp turnabout for Clinton, who has been reluctant to com­mit ground forces to Bosnia. 
The newly empowered Re­publican leadership in Congress has called for tougher NATO airstrikes on the Bosnian Serbs and arming the Muslim­led forces. 
"That would be the worst possible policy," French For­eign Minister Alain Juppe said Wednesday, suggesting French peacekeepers might soon be withdrawn. 
Franklin Gentry Gregory Gibson Evelyn Gills Phyllis Glassburn Reginald Glon Dorothy Grenert Mary Griesinger Annette Grooms Charles Grove Ellen Gunn Paula Hagedorn Sandra Hairston Daniel Handley Regina Hardy Robert Harris Mary Heller Lannette Henderson Jeanne Hendricks Barbara Henry 
Hue Hoang Irwin Hodgetts Kelli Hoke Mona Holdeman Harvey Holmes Carol Horton Helen Horvath Marie Hough Angela Hubbard Helen Hubler Della Hudgen Linda Hunter Traci Ingle Bill Jackson Queen James Weldon Jefferies Sandra Johns Melvin Johnson Peggy Johnson Viola Johnson Annie Jones Elroy Jones Joan Kaizer 

Harold Keene Stella Kirkman Karen Kirkpatrick Lucille Knox Emilia Kolesnik Lorraine Koszyk 1ames Kovach Ethel Kovacs Matilda Kowalski Kenneth Kramer William Krill Ana Laskowski Frank Laskowski Thanh Le Diane Lee Roseann Lemert Cheryl Leonard James Lepel Mary Lightner 
United Nations 
troops (as ofNov. 3): 
~United Nations ~headquarters 
-Bangladesh 
•••••• France:::.= Egypt 
Ell 
Britain
==Netherlanda 
~Malaysia 
Ill 
F=:!J:i Ukraine Nordic 
·-(Denrnal'l<. 

. Norwayand • -Sweden) Ruaala Turkey 
Diana Lippert Loretta Logan Rebecca Luchowski Teena Lutomski MaryLou Lymburner Patricia Lytle Wayne Mack Deborah Malicki David Mannen Herminia Martinez Lorene Maxwell Sonja McCaster Dolores McDonald Tillie McDonald Dorothy McGlown Patricia Medders Penny Medina Francisco Mercado Shirley Miller Rosie Mitchell Curry Montague 
Duerell Montague Phyllis Mortakis Theresa Moskwinski Dale Moss Lillian Murphy 
seph Negri mmyNeill
G
arilyn Neill Bernadine Nemeth Phetsamone Nettavong Sompl:wne Nettavong Sara Newsome Dalena Overmyer Diane Owens Emma Owens Rosalyn Palus Margery Payne Carla Peat Norma Pena Marlene Pendergrass Cheryl Phillips Joann Phillips John Piechowicz 
hn Pierson udith Preza~icki Price loan Radanovich 
Patricia Rans Esther Ratajczak Dorothy Ray Arvilla Reed Lawrence Robinson Sweet C. Robinson Mary Rosetta Maria Salazar Sandra Sanders Lillian Scanlon Christine Schaal Sherri Schram Edward Schrump 
Julie Scott Jack Shanton Nancy Sherwood ]ames Sholty bale Shorter Henrietta Shuamber Thomas Shuamber JoAnn Sikorski Betty Singer Diana Singleton ]ames Smith Martha Smith Ida Smoot Donald Sopczynski Francis Sousley Jeffrey S{mrks Richard Spenner Jozefa Steininger Richard Srewart Kathleen Stopczynski Billie Strom Norma Swanson 
Michael Swartz Margaret Szalay Mildred Tase Savannah Taylor Debbie Taylor-Thomas Frances Thompson Sandra Tirotta Christine Traxler Jimmy Troupe Terry Tubicsak Joan VanAcker Denna Vance John Vanderbosch Margaret Varnak Tenette Verhaegen Christopher Vitale Dori Ann Walsh Debra Walters Leo Warbington Carol Warren Theresa Wathen 
Mary Ann Weaver Carl Webb Lisa Wheaton Sylvester Wichlacz Clarence Williams Daniel Williams Debra Williams Sharon Williams Mary Wilson Nathaniel Wilson Jessica Wisler Janina Wlochowski Charles Wynegar Ann Yandl Brenda Young Mei Zhang 

~ 

U.S. troops could help evacuation 
By SUSANNE SCHAFER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton is offering to send thousands of U.S. com­bat troops into Bosnia to help evacuate 24,000 U.N. peace­keepers, a mission U.S. offi­cials said could put Americans soldiers in harm's way for weeks. 
Until now, Clinton has stead­fastly refused to insert Ameri­can troops into the conflict in Bosnia. Now he has authorized their use to remove the peace­keepers that may be the only remaining blockade to Serb victory. 
The U.N. Security Council has not decided yet to with­

I
draw, and the Clinton adminis­tration still hopes such a step can be avoided, administration and Pentagon officials said Thursday. 
The U.S. troops would be part of a larger NATO force. A senior military official, briefmg reporters at the Pentagon, said the mission would take "some weeks, even under the most fa­vorable conditions" since the 
U.N. force and its 8,000 vehi­cles are widely dispersed. 
Given the strife that has raged among the factions in the former Yugoslav republics, attempts to block a withdrawal are expected. Planners expect even women and children who have been fed and protected by the U.N. to make such efforts. 
Bosnian Serbs have crippled the U.N. mission, blocking hu­manitarian convoys and taking more than 300 peacekeepers hostage in an effort to thwart NATO air strikes. 
"The president believes it is important the United States, as a leader of NATO, be ready to assist our allies if their forces are in danger," one adminis­tration official said. 
Senate Republican leader 
Bob Dole said planning for the 
evacuation was "the appropri­
ate course of action." But he 
added that he hoped American 
troops would not be needed 
and that "in any case, the 
Congress will want to discuss 
these contingency plans with 
the administration in detail." 
Dole, a critic of current op­erations in Bosnia, said it was crucial that American troops not "be subject to United Na­tions decisions on their man­ner of operations, rules of engagement or ability to defend themselves, as is presently the case with NATO air forces." 
U.S. troops would be limited to the evacuation operations and would not remain behind after the mission was com­pleted. Final plans would be reviewed next week by top NATO military and defense of­ficials in Brussels, Belgium. 
Officials declined to cite a 
specific number or give a 
description of the U.S. troops 
involved. 
However, a second senior 
Pentagon official, speaking pri­
vately, said NATO planning 
calls for about seven or eight 
brigades, which would trans­
late into an overall force of 
some 35,000 to 40,000 troops 
depending upon whether the 
brigades are equipped with the 
heaviest tanks. 



----------, 
page 12 The Observer • NEWS Friday, December 9, 1994 


Woodstock doesn't end in love 

By DAVID BAUDER 
Associated Press 

ALBANY The singing's over, let the su­ing begin. 
The town that was host to the Woodstock concert is suing the promoters, claiming it was cheated out of thousands of dollars because flimsy security allowed thousands of gate­crashers. 
The concert promoters also broke a promise to let the town know by mid-September how many tickets were sold, David Van Benschoten, a lawyer for Saugerties, said Thursday. 
Michael Lang, partner in Woodstock Ventures Inc., which promoted the concert with Polygram Diversified En­tertainment, said the security argument was nonsense. 
He said there wouldn't have been as many gate-crashers if the town had allowed ticket 
Isn't she Cute? 
Kathleen McManus is 21! 

Happy Birthday! 
Love, 
"The Girls" 

sales at the site. Instead, all 
tickets had to be bought in ad­
vance. 

"I think it's a bit of an over­. reaction," Lang said of the law­suit. 
An estimated 350,000 people 
-most of whom didn't pay the 
$135 ticket price -turned out 
Aug. 13-15 for the concert fea­
turing Metallica, Nine Inch 
Nails, Aerosmith, Bob Dylan, 
Green Day and others. 

Promoters have yet to say ex­
actly how many tickets were sold. Lang said it will probably be just over 163,000, but that Polygram has been slow to get information from all ticket out­lets. 
Saugerties, whose town board voted Wednesday night to sue, is frustrated with the delay, Van Benschoten said. 
To get permission to hold the concert, promoters agreed to give Saugerties $5.05 per tick­et. 

~~-~~~-~~ 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music 
presents 
Handel's 
MESSIAH 
Thursday, Dec. 8 Friday, Dec. 9 8:00p.m. 
Washington Hall 
Tickets $6 General Admission $3 Students Available at LaFortune Box Office 


~~~-~~~-1~ 








CONCERT 

Sunday, December 11 
Washington Hall Auditorium 
Begins at 6: 0 0 pm 
Tickets· Students $2 Non-Students $4 Pay at the Door! 
no advance ticket sales 


Friday, December 9, 1994 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Progress slow in South Africa Cuban refugees riot, 
By JOHN DANISZEWSKI beats. ernment helicopter and motor­
injuring U.S. soldiers 
Associated Press The trip was designed in part cade to impoverished black 
ORANGE FARM, 
SOUTH AFRICA 
Seeking to blunt murmurs of disappointment among South Africa's poor seven months into his government, President Nelson Mandela visited shack settlements Thursday and pleaded for patience. 
"You must know that the wheels of government grind very slowly. Don't expect us to do miracles," he told 2,000 people gathered on a soccer field, many of them barefoot children and adults in tattered clothes. "I bring you no good news." 
But if there was any un­happiness with Mandela's mes­sage, it was not evident Thursday. The country's first black president was welcomed with delirious applause, joyful chanting, dances and drum-


The Observer 
is now accepting applications 
Assistant Accent Editor Those interested please submit one page personal personal statement to Mary Good, 3rd floor LaFortune. Any questions call Mary at 631-4540 or 284-4346. 
1 On !he 2Jsl 
Jfappy loyou G£ris!yl, 
our G.hr.islmas y.irf, wilhlauefrom 7Jaddy, !JJ(a, Y!Gcliaef, !}J(afl!iew, B.rzzie, 7/nne & 7om & 23/aliey ?alr.rck, Jlack, Xafy, and!JJ(egan 
to dampen expectations among the have-nots that all would immediately improve upon Mandela's election to a five­year term that expires in May 1999. 
As president, Mandela has sought to balance reassurances to whites and the business community of sound financial policies and promises to the black majority that his govern­ment would brighten their lives. 
Lately, there have been com­plaints that government policy under the 76-year-old former political prisoner is skewed too much in favor of whites and that not enough progress has been made to help blacks. 
One day after his Cabinet approved a policy paper on a new national housing drive designed to produce 1 million homes, Mandela flew by gov-communities in Orange Farm, Ivory Park and Swanieville. 
Here families live in small corrugated iron shacks that are broiling hot in summer and cold in winter. They get water from public taps and share out­houses where they exist. 
"Before the election ... I went around telling all our people that we wanted to ensure a bet­ter life for everybody in this country. And that better life means the creation of jobs, the building of houses, of schools, of hospitals, of clinics," Mandela said, somberly taking a podium. 
"I have brought today none of these things and I will not be able to bring you good news for next year and in the year after," he said. 
He blamed the current bud­get, which was prepared by the former National Party govern­ment. 
Although the spending plan was endorsed by his govern­ment, Mandela called it "the budget of the previous apartheid regime ... drawn up by people who wanted to create more privileges for the minori­ty." 
He promised that next year's budget, now in preparation, would lay down "the founda­tions for us to carry out all our promises." 
Speaking in Sotho, Zulu and 
English, Mandela drew the 
loudest cheers when he spoke 
of his problem as president 
keeping in touch with the peo­
ple. 
ByJUAN ZAMORANO 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY 
About 1,000 Cuban refugees, angry at the slow pace of find­ing them permanent homes, threw stones at U.S. soldiers Thursday, injuring about 60 of them. An unknown number of Cubans also were injured. 
The refugees, held in jungle camps near the Panama Canal, damaged 12 military vehicles when they broke through a barbed-wire fence encircling their camp. Several refugees escaped. 
The United States has grant­ed visas to some Cuban families being held in the camp, but said others iii the camps weren't automatically entitled to entry. 
About 8,500 refugees who fled Cuba this summer were taken to four camps in the Panama Canal Zone after President Clinton ordered U.S. warships to intercept their boats at sea. 
The soldiers were being treated at a military hospital for minor injuries, mostly cuts and bruises. One injured Cuban was also being treated. 
The American troops did not fire their weapons during the violence at two of the four camps, said military spokes­woman Melanie Reeder. 
"This is the worst incident we 
have had. Our concern is the 
security of our troops," she 





enne 


p
u n v e r s t y a .r... k.......~....o....t_ .. . . . . .. . 
Notre Dame Merchandise 
Football 


Weekends 
said. 

• 
Friday & Saturday Night 
8:00 and 10:30 pm 
Cushing Auditorium December 9 & 10 $2 admission
•­
... 

She said camp commanders were meeting with Cubans in an attempt to defuse the dis­content. 
U.S. forces tightened security by posting guards around the Empire Range Camp Complex about 12 miles west of Panama City. U.S. Army helicopters hov­ered overhead as troops set up roadblocks and searched for escapees. 
The violence came as 119 refugees were flown to Spain or Miami. Those refugees appar­ently had not been involved in the melee. 
A U.S. military communique said the fighting was caused by "the erroneous perception that ... transferring people to other countries was being deliberate­ly delayed." 
They have said they were dis­enchanted with the pace of efforts to find them a perma­nent home. 
"One day they tell us that children will be sent to the United States and the next day they say something else," said Cuban refugee Antonio Giovanni. 
Spain agreed to accept 72 refugees after receiving about 500 requests for residency, said Gloria Bodelon, a Spanish for­eign ministry official in Madrid. 
She said preference was given to refugees with relatives in Spain, women alone in the camps, married couples with small children, and people capable of finding work in Spain. 
Have you signed up lor Communities 
NO? 
Don't miss out on the DPPDI'tUnities: 
• 
Meet great people 

• 
Talk about your faith 

• 
Read the Gospel together 


Sign-Ups and more information: Badin Hall or Library Campus Ministry Offices 
Or Call: Kate or Darrell at 1-5242. 
Fii'Bt Meeting: Rally Day Janual'y 21, 1995 
-................... . 

~------------------~ 


page 14 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, December 9, 1994 
Castro noticeably absent Fundamentalists violate rights 
from Summit of Americas 
By WILL LESTER 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
The smiling images of 34 Western Hemisphere leaders watch over Domino Park, a shady square of Little Havana 

Castro
where the older Cuban men drift down to click their dominoes, deal cards and make small talk. 
But missing from the colorful wall mural prepared for the Summit of the Americas is the only one who matters to these Cuban exiles -Fidel Castro. 
The communist dictator was­n't invited to the summit -he is the only leader in the hemi­sphere excluded -but that's not enough for the exiles. They want him out of power, and they want the leaders to ad­dress the issue. 
Miami's huge exile commu­nity has little confidence the summit will accomplish much, said Orlando Menes, a 67-year­old retired furniture dealer born in Cuba. "They come here, they eat good food, they talk, blah, blah, blah ...." 
"Of all these people here, only that one will talk about Castro," Menes said motioning toward the painted image of Argentina's president. Carlos Menem has pledged to force Castro's leadership of Cuba, a divisive issue in Latin America, onto the agenda. 
The ickorY Uillai!e Love Affair 
Look At What 


$295 
Can Get You: 
• 
AGreat One-Bedroom Apartment 

• 
(Efficiencies from $280, Two Bedrooms Available from $355!) 

• 
Sparkling Povl and Sundeck 

• 
Beautiful Clubhouse 

• 
Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees 

• 
Attentive Staff 

• 
Laundry Facilities 

• 
Cable TV Available Close to Great Shopping 

• 
Air Conditioning 

• 
24-hour Emergency Mc>intenance 


212-1880 

Call or stop by today and we'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 

+UCKORU lJILLAqEm 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
On Thursday, Menem ad­dressed Cuban exiles in Coral Gables, challenging Castro to "open the gates of freedom" and pledging to lobby for sum­mit action on Cuba. 
Waving hundreds of Cuban flags, the crowd cheered Menem and yelled "Viva Ar­gentina! Viva Menem! Viva Cuba libre!" 
However, most of the leaders want trade and economic de­velopment to dominate this weekend's first hemispheric summit since 196 7. 
Miami leaders have the task of providing an appealing venue for the summit while al­lowing the dominant Cuban ex­ile community -and any other protesters -their rights to free speech. Dade County's 564,000 Cuban residents are the coun­ty's largest ethnic group. 







Linda's Flower Shop 
Your one stop flower shop for this weekend's dance. 
1635 Edison Rd Across from the Linebacker 


Great prices! 
(219) 2 72~0902 
Center for Social Concerns 
Application Deadline February 8 
$1500.00 SCHOLARSHIP (ND Students only) Eight weeks of service work during the summer in cities of ND Alumni Club sponsors across the country Come and find out what SSPs are all about 
By ANWAR FARUQI 
Associated Press 
NICOSIA, CYPRUS 
Governments battling Muslim fundamentalists commonly practice arbitrary arrests and torture, and are the worst violators of human rights in the Middle East, a rights group said Thursday. 
Israel, Egypt, Algeria and Saudi Arabia were singled out for the worst abuses, according to the New York-based group Human Rights Watch. 
In their showdown with Mus­lim fundamentalists fighting to overthrow the government, the Egyptian "security apparatus committed abuses with im­punity," the group's annual re­port on the Middle East said. 
It accused the Egyptian gov­ernment of resorting to "extra­judicial executions" in some cases, detaining lawyers and journalists, and dispersing peaceful protests "forcibly, and sometimes violently." 
The group said that in Alge­ria, civilians were often caught in the war between Muslim mil­itants and the government. Es­timates of the number of people killed between 1992 and September 1994 ranged from 4,000 to 30,000, it said. 
"In 1994, Saudi Arabia wit­nessed the largest roundup in recent history of opposition ac­tivists and a new low in the dis­mal human rights record of the kingdom," the report said. 
"Arbitrary arrest, detention without trial and ill-treatment of prisoners remained the norm during the year, especially. for 



~SQUARE 
: ..••~N ~ 0 ME S 

"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER. GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR. AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT ·CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT ·24-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 
NOW LEASING FOR 
Mark your calendars------­
Summer Service Project Information Meeting: 



Jan. 18 (Wed.) 6:30 -7:00 pm 

those accused of political of­fenses," said the group. 
In the Israeli-occupied terri­tories, the group said abuse was systematic, but "the level of certain abuses, including killings by the security forces, declined compared to previous years." 
However, many Palestinian prisoners "were subject to tor­ture or ill treatment at the hands of their interrogators. 
They underwent some combi­nation of beatings, shackling, confinement for prolonged pe­riods in painful positions, hood­ing, sleep deprivation, denial of access to a toilet, and other forms of humiliation," the group said. 
. ' 
.......... ., ............................................. . 





VIEWPOINT 

Friday, December 9, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Acant E.ditor ............................... Maty Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Krisren Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• PEACE ON EARTH 
Prophets speak for goodwill 
As the Notre Dame/St.Mary's commu­nity comes together to celebrate Peace on Earth through the promotion of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s ideologies and challenges, we are called to truly embrace each other and walk together in unity and peace for the greater good of all. In A. Bartlett Giamatti's words, President of Yale University (11978-86), 
"There is no growth of the moral and mental powers of the self if the self alone is the ultimate goal of learning. Independence of an enduring kind, 
Teresita Creighton Priscilla Wong 
noble and practical, arrives only when one realizes what it means, in all its ,qlory and responsibility. that one is not alone." 
Let us hear the voices of a few of the prophets of our time for the dignity of all: 
"We can change the world. We can throw our pebble in the pond and be confident that its ever widening circle will reach around the world. " Dorothy Day (1897 -1980), founder of Catholic Worker House which across the country opens its doors to shelter, feed, and clothe all people in need. 
Those who have gone before us like Dorothy Day, Martin Luther King Jr., Cesar Chavez and Mahatma Gandhi say to us today through Jose Hobday-a Native American, a Catholic religious sister, teacher and poet who calls us to take time to listen to, hear, and reflect on the beauty not only of nature but the beauty of every human being we meet: 
"Do not stand at my grave and weep. I am not there. I do not sleep. I am a thousand winds that blow. I am the glints on snow. I am the sunlight on ripened grain. I am the gentle autumn rain. When you awaken in the morn-ing's hush. I am the swift uplifting rush of quiet birds in circling flight. I am the soft star that shines at night. n 
As we find the beauty in each other, we recall Martin Luther King's words. "As you press on for justice, be sure to move with dignity and discipline, using only the weapons oflove. " 
Cesar Chavez, organizer of farm work­ers across the country, never tired of saying, "We need your help. We call you to action; now-to attract educa­tors, community action volunteers and organizations for effective action. We need to evaluate our strengths and weaknesses to fight hunger. home­lessness, drug addiction, disease, illiter­acy and unemployment. Together we gather to support friendship and give personal assistance to those in need. n 
Helder Camara, Bishop of Recife, Brazil calls each of us to be spiritual leaders as he says: "When spiritual leaders are moved by the crisis of humanity, then we can lead the world to harmonious and integral development under the banner of peace based on jus­tice. n 
To be spiritual leaders, we must take to heart Pope John Paul II's words On Social Concerns-"One of the greatest injustices in the contemporary world consists precisely of this: that the ones who possess much are relatively few and those who possess almost nothing are many." 
As we prepare for the coming of Christ in our heart and our homes, we remem­ber the words of Dr. King in his A Christmas Sermon on Peace: "If there is to be peace on earth and goodwill toward men. we must finally believe in the ultimate morality of the universe. and believe that all reality hinges on moral foundations. Something must remind us of this as we once again stand in the Christmas season and think of the Easter season simultaneously. for the two go together. Christ came to show us the way. " 
Editor's note: This is the final in a five 
part series on Dr. Martin Luther King, 
Jr. 
page 15 
1...1~4~1mv... ! 

NON·M.c.Ol-PLIC 
~ 

•LETTERS To Tne EmroR 
Swim and Dive sinks without student support 
Dear Editor: 
We realize that editing sueh a small daily newspaper as The Observer involves difficult choices as to what to cover, but we have been shocked to learn of the nearly total lack of coverage of such an important Olympic sport at Notre Dame as swimming and diving. Student interest in the progress and achievements of the Swim and Dive team is very high, in part because many ND students are former competitive swimmers. 
Swim and Dive deserves the student 
body's full support, especially in this 
transition year as the men's and 
women's teams get ready to compete in 
the Big East Conference Championships 
next year. The women's team has 
already defeated one nationally ranked 
team this year, and both teams are well 
on their way to their most successful 
season in several years. Both teams are 
working very hard to raise their com­
petitive level, and increased student 




It's never too late to evolve 
Dear Editor: It turns out that Notre Dame is at least 25 years behind the times in deciding to convert "ombudsman" to 
"ombudsperson." I was a student at Berkeley in 1969 when they made the switch. So, contrary to Mr. Imbus' sus­picion in his December 5th column that 
NO administrators will be ridiculed when they travel to other schools using this word, they will more likely be met ·with the response, "It's about time." It turns out that there are ombudspersons all around us. 
While I agree in general with your method of "beginning with etymology," it is also important to recognize the fluid and evolutionary nature of Ian-support and recognition gained with the help of good coverage by The Observer would help achieve team goals.We urge you to give the Swim and Dive team the consistent and thorough coverage it deserves. 

PARENTS OF SWIM AND TEAM 
MEMBERS 
guage. The American language can choose to reflect Swedish language and culture if American's wish for it to do so, but by the same token, they also don't have to. The choice is up to us and the dictionary -'-DOt simply the lat­ter by itself. 
Finally, the word "ombudsperson" was used several times in the column, and I would bet that most of us readers knew exactly what he was referring to. Doesn't that argue against Mr. Imbus' claim that "ombudsperson is not a word"? 
KERN TREMBATH 
Assistant Chairman 
Theoloi!V Deoanment 
• 000NESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
MR. 8fJT7S, {)f{) ?HccoNGRtS-5/0NAL. /,(/fll}{ HUN75MAI<& t.IF6/llff/CIJ/..7 FOR YOUAN!? YOIJR MMI/..Y~  "ITWA5 A NIGHTMARe! FPOM 7H& LA7!3 NI6HT V/!317!3 ff()M NICO·NAZ/5,,  

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"It is time for a new genera­
tion of leadership, to cope with new problems and new opportunities. For there is a new world to be won." 
-John F. Kennedy 
--------~-~--­



VIEWPOINT

page 16 Friday, December 9, 1994 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Overpopulation not a myth Guide: Facts wrong 
Dear Ednor:. 
Can one prove overpopulation 
t b th? H · 
o e a my . ere IS one ap­
proach. Start with the empirical 
· · "d h
situatiOn: cons! er t e present
· f h 1 · d
SIZe o urnan popu at10n an the historical depiction of popu­lation change. In the mid 1990s, there are ca. 5.6 billion 
h Th h tt · 
ufml ans.d . e c ange pa en~ IS re ecte m an exponential growth curve that 1.11 ustrates 
the following: The first billion 
· k 
was reached ca. 1810; It ta e ca. 11 years to add a billion today. Population doubling
· · 
time IS ca. 40-50 years. At cu~­rent rates of growth, there will
b b 11 b·11· h
1 100
e a out , umans when today s college students 
are in their sixties, and ca. 22 billion when their children are · th · · 
1
m e1r seven ws.
· t t 11 th t
EcoIogis s e us a 
t. 1 th f 1
exponen Ja grow o popu a­
t. t 1· "th t 
wns canno con mue WI ou
r ·t 1 · 1 t h
Imi : ~co ogi~a sys ems ~ve saturatiOn pom ts or carrymg capacities, which when reached, are followed by popu­
Kelly's Bowl commentary on target 
Dear Editor: 
Rather than ridicule the fee­ble attempts of two recent writ­ers to justify why a 6-4-1 Irish Team belongs in a Tier-1 Bowl Game, I would prefer to focus on the pathetic and misin­formed character assaults lev­eled at Observer Sports writer Jason Kelly. In these 'All Hail to the Irish' manifestos, Kelly and his writing were defiled as being 'arrogant', 'ignorant' and 'sarcastic.' All this for simply extolling his opinion that an unranked Notre Dame team has no business being invited to the Fiesta Bowl to face #5 Colorado--a claim the majority of sportswriters in the country I t" d" ff h h · 1
a wn 1e o t roug matena 
causes.
M t t h 
os ana1ys s agree t at, at 
some time, human population
· .
must stop growmg exponent1a 1­
1 Th d · h
y. e ecrease 10 growt
will either be imposed by mate­rial causes such as catastrophe, disease, etc., or result from 
h f H
100
human ac · umans can 
c oose to reduce the growth
. 
rate m one or more ways: stop
having sexual intercourse, reg­
1 b" th b h h h 
u ate 1r s y r yt m or ot er technologically assisted means, abort, practice infanticide,
11 h k 
a ow t e we a to starve; or go to war. Each of these occurs
h · h ld d 
some~ ere 10 t e wor to ~Y· What IS your moral evaluatiOn 
of these, and how do people of other moral traditions evaluate th ? 
em. 
· · th t d t
0 ur VIew IS a a equa e
1 t f h l"f
mora respec or uman 1 e 
t t "th t f 
s ar s Wl mora1 respec or
th 1 · t th t
1
e eco ~gica sys ems a s~p­port all life. Present populatiOn growth rates threaten basic life-support systems and thus h h ... .
t reatens uman 111e Itself. The 
point of "overpopulation" can
b k . . II f 
e nown empmca yon1y a ter 
the fact (e.g., when a major life­
.
support system fails, such as
f d d .
oo pro uctwn or the water cycle). Prudent estimates of "overpopulation" may not yet refer to a "fact," though it may 
. r f . C .
10 your 1 e_time. ertaiO1y,overpopulatiOn does not refer 
.. h .. 
to a myt . 
Indeed, overpopulation refers 
d h
to a eep moral c a11 enge,namely, our empirical, spiritu­al, and reasoned understanding 
. · 
of ~elabonships between ~opu­latwn growth and susta1010g 
. h
1 1
eco _ogJca systems t at support all life. 
DENNIS DOORDAN 
School ofArchitecrure 
CHRISTOPHER HAMLIN 
Department of History
GEORGE HOWARD 
Department of Psychology
JAMES STERBA 
Department of Philosophy ANDREWWEIGERT Department ofSociology 

would undoubtedly support. 
Regardless, Kelly's stand is defensible, if not correct , and he in no way deserves to be denigrated so egregiously for an intelligent commentary on Notre Dame's bowl situation. As a sports fan and Observer reader, I have read countless articles penned by Jason Kelly. His knowledge of the sports world is outstanding, and his eye for the truth is to be com­mended. He has a commitment to writing commentaries that are not only in accordance with the facts, but most appropriate in their appraisal of those deserving praise and those not. 
Please, uneducated sports fans, if you wish to criticize his opinions, fine. But leave the character assaults of a fine sportswriter on the sidelines. 
ANDY SALDINO Off-Campus Senior 
Dear Ednor: 

I ·r · t th D r S d t
1 10 7 1 0

G am wn t.ng bl~est~onsef Toh Ge .dec.b aGr IC de ° Ntu eln 
overnmen s pu 1ca IOn o e m e y wen o1yn org e.
Wh"l I th a t fth Ob t t k ·t· k 
t t1h~ enco.uraSgted eteGor s 0 et sder~ter oda e a cni Ica 11d0? • 
a IS year s u en overnmen an 1 s en eavors, am IS-
t b db th" fi t t" 1 th t "ddl d "th · t t" d 
ur e Y IS 1rs ar IC e a was n e w1 m1squo a Ions an
bl t h d f t d fi N f h d
1 1 • 

d 0 c e f ~ s and ~res. f t~rg ~ s.dacts on t e cot\ at" proce­
0 100k 0

~e~ e pr3 ~c e th uti t~ ~erte c~mp e e ~wrong.
0

or stwbertetmhia e mta e sur~l a e ac s s e was usmg were 
correc , u s came o no ava1 .

The most serious mistake occurred in the role of the Academic 
C .1. th d t" fTh G "d I t d fth "d
ounc1 m e pro uc wn o e m e. ns ea o e $2,000 pal
d" tl t th · f Th G "d "t d · th t" 1 th
01

Airecd Y .° Ce org~lnhizers d ed tUJ e ats hci fe dn ~tahr Sict ed, et 
ca ernie ounc1 as p1e ge o rna c un s w1 u en
G t t · th t · "t · f Th G "d · ht · 
1 10 1

vJev~~n;:~~e ~ b~sure : tm s ancy, t f ~ t UI ~. mig s~trvJvet. by the Acaden ·c Cvoern~l 0 adred veryt gr_ahe ..u tohr Ist commi mtent
rn1 unci . an o no w1s tOr e na ure or ex en
of their commitment to be misconstrued. Art" les su h as th" k "t th t t d t d t
1c c IS 0 ne rna e 1 appear a s u en s o no 
care about The Guide nor the ideas that it represents. Professors need t hea f om st de t th 1 th t r · f · Th 
. ? . r r u n s emse ves a par ICipa 100 m e Gmde 1 ~ Im~ortan~ _to the studen~ body. If a professor does not 
appear m this addition of The Gmde, I encourage each student to
h th t .. d k th t" · t
approac a protessor an as em to par ICipa e.

w s d G .. I . f h r 'h 
e at tu ent overnment tee certam o t e success o 1 e
G "d w t" 1 · · · h 1· d 
m e. e are con muous y stnvmg to Improve t e qua 1ty an 
· f Th G "d d · f 

convemence o e m e, an encourage any suggestiOns rom
either students or professors. THAD NATION Executive Coordinator of Intellectual Life Student Government 
Safety tips from HPC 
Dear Editor:: 

In light of the recent, highly publicized series of crimes affecting Notre Dame students, the HPC would like to remind students that precautions can be taken to avoid becoming a victim. The follow­ing are recommendations from Security: 
• 
Do not walk alone when off-campus, especially at night. Avoid walking in areas that have been made targets for crime, especially Courtney Ave., Eddy St., Notre Dame Ave., and Ivy Rd. 

• 
When walking at night on campus, use Safe-Walk rather than walking alone. 

• 
When parking your car in D2 at night, inform Security or Safe­Walk that you would like an escort to your dorm via either the East Gate attendant or security call box in the parking lot 

• 
Report any suspicious activity to Security immediately. Do not wait for a situation to become dangerous. 

• 
Be alert for Security Watch bulletins posted around campus that provide information about trouble areas and suspicious ac­tivity. 

• 
Do not drink and drive. Call a cab for your trip home. 



Remember that avoiding a dangerous situation is much easier that dealing with its effects. Unfortunately, crime is a real danger, even at and around Notre Dame. We urge you to do your part and make use of the services available to protect you. 
SECURITY COMMITTEE HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL 
• DISPELLING MYTHS 



Dahmer's injustice threatens everyone 
Jeffrey Dahmer was perhaps the most violent and gruesome serial killer ih recent time. He killed his victims with malice and forethought, dissected their corpses, and collected their body parts as trophies and for cannibalization. He 
. was characterized as a beast, a monster, and a demon, which he may have been-but if you think his murder in prison served the principle of justice, you ought to stop and think about whether you too are a monster. As disgusted as I was to hear of the unthinkable acts committed by Dahmer, I am now equally as disgusted to hear people refer to the brutal slaying of Jeffrey Dahmer as justice. The notion that justice is served when a human being has his head smashed open and is left to die in a pool of his own blood strikes me as barbaric. The notion that justice is served when a person has done onto a wrongdoer the same wrongful act they committed on others strjkes me a hypocritical and un-Christian. The notion that justice is served when an individual breaks the law to seek his own justice on a person guilty of wrong doing, strikes me as being a characteris­tic of a lawless, anarchical society with­out order. The notion that justice was served when Jeffrey Dahmer was bru­tally slain in simply wrong. The theory upon which this notion of justice is based is know uretributive jus­tice." A system of retributive justice seeks to exact the same harm onto the 
wrongdoer as they committed onto an­other. The punishment is said to be the fair and equitable response to wrongdo­ing because the person is given what he or she deserves. In the abstract, ret­ributive justice makes sense, but in practice this type of retribution is large­ly useless and unproductive, and that is why it has been abandoned for hun­dreds of years. 
The theory of retributive justice was a product of uncivilized societies of the 

D.J. 

Sarafa 

past. It was a tool utilized by the most simplistic and barbaric societies because they had not evolved to the point of con­structing criminal justice systems. They punished in this manner because they did not know better. But the vengeful­ness of retribution fails to compensate the victim, and decadently condones and vindicates the wrongdoers act by imitat­ing it. 
Of course, we all learned that revenge was wrong when our parents espoused the axiom that "two wrongs don't make a right." To claim that two wrongs can make a right is hypocritical and, in the case of the Dahmer attack, hateful and violent. Too much"violence already exists in the world. One need only to watch the news to discover that violence currently surrounds us: in South Carolina, Bosnia, and not so long ago, in Wisconsin, to name a few. The solution to these acts of violence cannot be more violence because a violent solution only exacerbates the problem. 
Violence, by the very nature of willing­ly harming another, is a fundamentally un-Christian act. Retributive revenge is often justified in the religious realm by the Old Testament statement, "An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth." To justify the slaying of Jeffrey Dahmer from a religious standpoint denies the teachings Jesus Christ gives to us in the New Testament. The Golden Rule did not teach us to do unto others as they do unto you, but rather, to do unto others as you would have done unto you. We must treat Dahmer as we would want to be treated ourselves. To this statement, vengeful people would respond by say­ing that he did not employ the Golden Rule when he killed maliciously, so why should we? The answer, also given to us by Jesus, is that we ought to "turn the other cheek," and pray for our ene­mies. Counterintuitive as this may be (we are often taught to hate our ene­mies), this rationale transcends venge­fulness and attempts to create a more peaceful society. 

Vengefulness not only threatens peace, but, in this context, it also threat­ens order. This vigilante justice, which has been largely praised by the general public, rewards lawbreaking. The United States, more than any other country, has largely rejected vigilantism. Our criminal justice system strives to protect both the rights of the individual, including the criminal, and also the rights of society. In the case of Jeffrey Dahmer the justice system worked effec­tively. He was given a fair trial, con­victed, and sentenced to serve life in prison, which was what he deserved. He would have spent the rest of his life in solitude, to contemplate the severity of his wrongdoing. Justice was served. 
An injustice was committed, however, when Dahmer was struck down and killed in a manner as violent as his own method of killing. This injustice has been worsened by a general public which, in part, has approved of this vio­lent and lawless act. This injustice affects us all. I firmly believe, as Martin Luther King Jr. wrote; "Injustice any­where is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable net­work of mutuality, tied in a single gar­ment of destiny." When people approve of this horrific and unjust act, when peo­ple advocate the use of violence to pun­ish wrongdoers-they threaten to abridge the justice of a society in wish we all live. 
Sarafa is a second year law student. 
Friday, December 9, 1994 page 17 


VIEWPOINT 

• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Wishful thinking won't work H~~ony i~consistent, 
oearEditor: :=-'d. .. -~ . 
With Amencan Dream 


Professor Morton Fuchs' sen­
timents as expressed in his let­ter "Students need a lesson in responsibility," Dec. 6, have left me frustrated and confused; they highlight a problem that I have run across all too often on this campus. Professor Fuchs has made the mistake of believ­ing we live in a simple and idyl­lic world. This has left him without any real answers as to how to deal with the problem of drinking and driving, especially among the Notre Dame commu­nity. 
To reduce the arguments for Weekend Wheels, to an at­tempt on the part of the stu­dents to skirt the responsibility dorse it. However, the fact of of their actions is to miss the the matter is that people, espe­point. I believe all of us would cially in college, go to bars to like for people to see drinking drink. This is not an assump­and driving for the evil that it tion, as Fuchs asserts, it is a is, and I believe most of us real­fact for the vast majority of our ize the dangers involved. generation. However, when alcohol is con­When there is no reasonable sumed, whether one deems it alternative , people are going to "stupid" as Professor Fuchs drive to these bars. And, know­argues, judgment becomes im­ing their car is right outside as paired. Very few people know a convenient form of travel, they are too intoxicated to drive people are going to drive home and do so anyway. What hap­from the bars, believing they pens is that one loses the ability are in fine condition to do so. It to judge when it is that he/she is not the fault of the university can no longer drive. Therefore, that these are facts. people who should not be dri­Weekend Wheels, if operated ving do so because they believe differently, could be that rea­they can. sonable alternative. If this 
If Professor Fuchs, or anyone were the case, less people else for that matter, can come would drive drunk, and less up with a realistic way to con­people would be hurt as a re­vince people that with one sult. The University is obvi­drink they are impaired, I ously not responsible, ulti­would be among the first to en-mately, for the actions of those 
V ~ ~ 
o .. < ~. 1111';,_~~'111 
• :-:~.;~~ ·· 
who represent it. It s however, care enough about those people to want to protect them. Notre Dame is in a posi­tion to affect some changes in the world, maybe save some lives. However, it hides behind insurance liabilities and claims such as Fuchs that we all must "grow up." I too, wish that Weekend Wheels wasn't neces­sary. 
It is time for all of us to force the issue and make the University see the good it could do by taking a stand on some­thing. Why not do something that puts the responsibility in the hands of people equipped to handle it. So what is it going to be Notre Dame, wishful think­ing, or reality? 
MARK MCKENNA 
Zahm Hall 
Sophomore 
Dear Editor: 
I'd like to respond to Dec. 6 letter, "The night division fell, diversity conquered," submitted by Shankar Ramachandran and Celso France of "Peace House." Writing in bizarre prose, Ramachandran and Franca fo­cused on a certain ideological abstraction called "world har­mony." The two subjects sought to impose their ideals of "peace, harmony, togetherness, selfless personal-ness and inclusiveness" by slamming the system of capitalism. 
Deep in the recesses of the vacuous liberal mind is this un­yielding animosity for capital­ism. Yet it is capitalism which inspire people to do great things with their lives. America is the land of opportunity as any successful person like Clarence Thomas, Michael Jordan, or Bill Gates will tell you. Yet Ramachandran and Franca have condemned this great economic system as an anathema. 
My confusion is not a product of my white male ignoranc'e and insidious closed-hearted­ness, but apparently stems from my failure to be as entire­ly selfless as these two are. Perhaps I am an achiever in our capitalist society because I want to accomplish something in addition to interpersonal harmony. I must endeavor to be productive with my intellect, for without a sense of integrity and peace within myself I can 

• BEYOND fREEDOM ROCK 
... ( ,, ' . .4; 


Poor Shakespeare! Remembered 
About the worst thing a theater company can do with a familiar classic is to fail in a conscious attempt to be innovative, for instance, by setting it to music or on another planet or in the Wild West. But there's some­thing even worse than to fail in an attempt at innova­tion, and that's to fail without attempting innovation. 
In December, 1969, the Notre Dame/St. Mary's Theater department came up with an innovation all right: Mixing classic tragedy with unintended comedy to create trauma-dy. 
A straightforward, traditional production of "Romeo and Juliet." What could be easier? The acting was, well, below par, but the theater department had been setting a pretty high standard. We were due for a little sawing-of-the-air and bad English accents. But then things began to fall apart-literally-during the balcony 


scene opening night. ================== the worst on-stage fencing disas-
The main set was a pair of towers, separated by an arched wall with a walkway on the top p t 
and set on a wide platform with e e three full-width steps down to the stage. It was constructed p t from chicken wire covered with 
e erson 

industrial, spray-on plastic foam and painted to look like stone. For the marketplace scenes, blue sky could be seen through the arch and flags flew from the balconies. For the party scene, a red velvet curtain was drawn behind the arch, and musicians played on the balconies. And, for the balcony scene, a dark curtain was drawn across the arch, bushes were place on the darkened stage and a starry sky peeked over the top of the walkway. 
Romeo came in and declaimed for awhile, working his way over towards the stage-left balcony, where Juliet was about to appear. In the darkness, you could see the maiden step out of the tower onto that balcony. 
And you could see the spotlight hit the balcony at stage right. There was an uncomfortable pause, then Romeo spun on his heel to face the lighted balcony, and Juliet could be seen ducking back into her tower and sprinting across the walkway to the other balcony, where she made her appearance just as the lighting director realized his mistake, shut ofT the spotlight on the stage-right balcony and lighted the stage-left hal­cony. 
Romeo turned back, Juliet ran back and the scene began. It went pretty well, too, until Romeo began to climb the balcony to kiss Juliet good-night. Parting was never such sweet sorrow as when the plastic foam, set only that afternoon, parted, leaving Juliet standing amid chickenwire and boards, and Romeo sprawled on his back on the stage with a. plastic balcony on his chest. 
And the evening was not yet over. In the next scene, hot-tempered Tybalt fought Mercutio. The two circled, their swords clashed, and Tybalt's blade snapped off, leaving him facing Mercutio's foil with a handful of hilt. There was a horrified freeze while the entire theater watched to see how they were going to salvage Mercutio s famous death scene from what had suddenly become an obvious mismatch. Then Tybalt lunged, neatly skewering his foe on an invisible sword. How did he do it? Acting! 
At any rate, it was hardly the least convincing moment of the evening. And, for that matter, it wasn't 
ter of the year, either: That spring, in a production of "Servant of Two Masters," the sister-disguised-as-her-brother mixed up her blocking in a rene­ing scene and failed to parry a descending saber, which in­scribed an inch-and-a-half gash in the middle of her forehead. Freshman Sue Baker's costume was finished for the evening, but Baker, in her first acting role, 
was not; she completed the scene with blood pouring down her face, then rushed to get first aid and perform the quick-change for her next entrance, which she gamely made on cue, with a Band-Aid and fresh make­up over a good-sized lump. 
They could have used some of that pluck in Verona, where the suffering audience was beginning to envy the title characters their death. The Observer critic showed more attitude than compassion, with a review that began "Poor Shakespeare!" 
"After a devastating opening night," this kindly scribe wrote, "the cast seemed to rally, and Saturday night they hit a high level of practiced, well-honed mediae­rity." 
When I do these nostalgic looks at the past, I fre­quently phone some of the prilnciples, to gain the bene­fit of their memories of the event. This time, I thought better of it. No one who saw the production will ever forget it, but I imagine those who performed in it would like to. 
Pete Peterson, '71, is Readership Services Manager at the Press-Republican in Plattsburgh, NY. 
be of no use to others. To exist solely in a sappy state of emo­tion-to feel, and not to think, as is the standard liberal modus operandi-is to lay to waste the mind that God had given each of us. 
Ramachandran and Franca are driven by their fantasy­prone personalities to achieve their own interest. I am driven by the desire for a normal fami­ly, a respectable career, and a strong set of values. Yes, the stuff that the American dream is made of is values. 
Unfortunately for Ramachandran and Franca, capitalism is one of our sacred values. When our two con­stituents suggest that we sacri­fice who each of us is as a per­son to some pathetic notion of harmony, they are asking us to relinquish those things that God had given us which made us in­dividuals. They are asking us to denounce whatever it is that makes each of us special. As people living in America, we should all loathe the thought of uniformity. It is the the nauseating discharge of a socialist world view. Remember that .J;J.t the end of our lives it will be God, not a bunch of utopian liberals, who determines how much peace and harmony we sowed during our lives. 
JASON MAIER Off-Campus Senior 
.. 



;ACCENT

page 18 Friday, December 9, 1994 


Santa is rea[ 
By PAITI CARSON 
Ac~nr Writer 
Let's face it. Most of us are at that age now where we doubt a lot of things. As a matter of fact, we are taught to be critical thinkers and try to find the weak spots in every argu­ment. 
But some of us get carried away, especially when it comes to Santa Claus. The whole Santa scene. in my opinion, is one that should not be refuted. Let the man live. Let's not be so cynical. 
It wasn't until I listened to a per­suasive speech in my com­munications class that I began to think about this. (Affirming first and foremost that Jesus is the reason for the season, let's move on to heart of the commercialized Christmas). In her speech, Sophomore Allison Meagher tried to persuade her audi­ence that Santa Claus does exist and to celebrate him. She made some very good points. 
She said, "Come on. Even animals, who really have no capacity to think rationally, believe in and love Santa. Take Rudolph for instance. He even works for the guy, and he seems to have a pretty good time doing it. So Santa must exist." 
Furthermore, who would end the parade on Thanksgiving day if there was no Santa? Hopefully not Barney! Could you imagine kids lining up to sit on Barney's lap during the Christmas season? Enough is enough already .. Could you imagine hearing "I love you. You love me. That makes Christmas as good as can be" instead of the good old "Ho, ho, ho. Merry Christmas." Santa does it much better. What a class act. 
Meagher read an altered version of 'Twas the Night Before Christmas. pointing out that, if there really was no Santa. the holiday would not be as much fun. It read something like this: · 
"'Twas the night before Christmas and all through the house, the kids were all running around and even the mice were out; The stockings were hung in disarray. Who Cares? There would be no one to fill them on Christmas day." 
How depressing Christmas would be if we had no Santa. There would be few good Christmas cartoon spe­cials or movies. Who else would appear on Coca-Cola cans during the holiday season? Ointon? 
And how else could parents threat­en their children to behave during the holiday season besides saying, "Santa is watching. He's making his list and checking it twice." How else could parents get their kids to go to bed so early on Christmas· Eve? 
All of our traditional carols would be changed. Lyrics might possibly include "Nobody Special is Coming to Town," "Grandma Got Run Over By a Snow Plow," and "I Saw Mommy Kissing-"-who, Daddy? That just doesn't flow. 
Personally, I think we discover the truth all too early. Sophomore Anne Korte found out when she was only in third grade. "Santa left his glasses and a pack of cigarettes on the table near the plate of empty cookies I had left out the night before." 
When Sophomore Ashley Denniston found out, she said to her mother, "Oh great! Now I suppose you're going to tell me there's no tooth fairy, either." 
Once we encounter the truth, we seem to lose all belief in Santa. Instead of being so rational, perhaps we should get creative this Christmas and try to find how real Santa can be for us. As it's said in the movie The Santa Clause, "Seeing is not be­lieving. Believing is seeing." Santa is a vital part of this holiday. So cele­brate him any way you can. It makes the whole season a lot more fun. 
On tlie first day ofChristmas. . . 

j{ofiday dances 6egin tlie season ofgiving 

By THERESA ALEMAN Accent Writer 
We entered the South Dining Hall for the Morrissey Hall Christmas SYR Pancake Breakfast. Flowers, carefully selected toys from the dollar store, games, stuffed animals, hats, cookies.. .there was a parade of Christmas as impressive as Christmas morning. What happens to all these treasures the morn­ing after? Do they end up like Christmas presents actually received on Christmas? As I settled into my bed that night, I glanced around the room at my new pot of poinsettias and a teddy bear with a 
The Observer/ Brandon Candura 
Joel Elsesser had Pebbles and Bam-Bam for his dancing shoes. 
The Observer/ Brandon Candura Jim Kennedy's SYR date was as sweet as she could be for baking him cookies. 
turtleneck Christmas sweater, and remembered how my treasures of Christmas past wound up before their time. The flowers seemed to quake in fright and the bear hid his head under my pillow as a settled in for my winter's nap. 
As I nodded off, I journeyed into the linen closet of the abandoned gifts of Christmas past. I was about five when all I wanted was "Baby That-A-Way." She had these magical shoes that you were supposed to press to make her walk and move her arms. 
Well Christmas morning, Santa had her there waiting for me. Shiny flowing golden hair, rosy cheeks, a cute little baby outfit, and best of all, white shiny magic shoes. Of course she didn't work quite like she did in the commercial, but anyway, her arms moved. My cousin Tricia had received a doll that actually ate and then dirtied her diaper! Well next to that, it wasn't long before "Baby That-A-Way" paled in comparison. First I cut her hair to make her look more like a real baby (Tricia's doll had very short hair.) Well, "Baby That-A-Way" didn't have a mouth opening, so I ripped off her head to feed her some Christmas cookies. The milk I gave her to wash it down must have shorted out the inner work­ings of poor "Baby That-A-Way" because her body never worked after that. 
By Dusk on Christmas Day, "Baby That-A-Way" lay naked, her golden locks shorn from her decapitated head, stuffed with cookie like the holiday turkey the family had devoured. Magic shoes still shining white, wanting wear. Needless to say, "Baby That-A-Way" took that long walk to the closet sometime shortly thereafter. 
Then there was the Christmas when I 
was about seven, I received, among ; 
other less memorable gifts, a brown cor­duroy blazer. I remember crying and begging not to wear that hideous thing to my grandmother's house, (Tricia had received a fur coat.) I remember my mother's admonishing look as she flashed me that "Don't ruin Christmas" smile. By the time we arrived at my grandmother's house, my face was com­pletely swollen from crying and both my parents were disgusted with my ploy for sympathy from the grandparents. The blazer made it to the closet that same day. 
While look;ng foc a table doth th;, Thanksgiving, I ran across that infernal blazer, just as unworn as the day I got it. As I peered into the mirror. hunched over, squeezing into that wretched blaz­er, I realized that once a gift makes its way into the closet, it is never meant to escape. 
Piled up in that linen closet sit all the gifts of Christmas past worth keeping. Gifts that I could not live without, and gifts that I never wanted along with the same types of gifts my parents and brothers received. There's an electric guitar that my little brother and I needed about eight years ago. We take it out to look at and strum from time to time, but neither of us can play. There's that damn picture of dots where you're sup­posed to find a picture. My brothers claimed to see trees, sunshine, skyscrap­ers, dinosaurs... all I saw were dots. There's the indestructible 20-year old Tonka truck, countless pieces of Legos and action figure sets mixed with Barbie doll heads and body parts. All have made their way into the closet of no return. Some take longer than others to arrive there, but all are destined to spend eternity in their wretched broken or altogether undesirable states.· 
My brothers and I can't bring ourselves to throw these worthless toys pieces and forgotten gifts out. Maybe because to us, they're not worthless. In that closet lies a gold mine of the spirit of giving. Year after year, loved ones give without thought of the closet of fallen gifts. 
In my dream all of the toys were 

repaired. The hidden clothes became our most prized. "Baby That-A-Way" had her body back. We could strum that guitar better than Prince, and our grand­children still found that Tonka truck amusing. 
When I awoke the next morning, the Christmas sweater from my new bear was under the bed, teddy shivering in the cold reminiscent of "Baby That-A-Way". and the poinsettias seemed to wilt. Determined not to Jet these gifts end up like the others, I watered the plant and replaced the bear's little sweater. I'll see to it that these gifts don't make it into the closet too soon before their time. 


The Observer/ Brandon Candura Alison Roscoe trims a special kind of Christmas Bonsai Tree her date gave her. 

The Observer/ Cynthia Exconde 
Cara Calcagno finds entertainment in an ever-changing Mr. Potato-Head. 



Friday, December 9, 1994 

The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA page 2 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE. 




Irish offense needs 
air under its wings 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame offense shouldn't hope to compete with the mighty trio from Colorado. They should just try to keep up. 
While Kordell Stewart, Rashaan Salaam, and Michael Westbrook will be strutting their stuff for all to see on January 2, the Irish will be methodically plodding along, mixing a lot of run with a pass here and there. 
The fireworks that Colorado's offense creates will probably make Notre Dame's efforts on the field look like a small side show. 
But the bright lights and big plays could all be for naught. Because if the Irish offense plays half as well as the Buffaloes', they should have a chance to win. 
"I think this will be a good yardstick for us," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz said. "I think we can play with them, I really do. I think our play­ers will approach this game with a positive atti­tude and with seriousness." · 
The Buffaloes didn't go 10-1 this year because they're lucky. They did because they're good. 
But that quality is slightly off-balanced. It's tipped a bit towards the offensive side of the ball. That's not to say that the Colorado defense is 
poor. But it can be beaten. 
No. 1 Nebraska proved it on October 29. The Cornhuskers were able to stop the potent Buff attack and hold them to only seven points. But, more importantly, they scored 24 to make the game look somewhat lopsided. 
If Notre Dame's offense is to emulate this per­formance, the pressure will be on quarterback Ron Powlus. The sophomore has had a year of experience. January 2 will serve as a final exam of sorts. 
"I think (Ron) Powlus will be a lot better by then," Holtz continued. "Unfortunately, we aren't going to get many injured players back and we aren't going to be able to add any more until then." 
Two of those injuries are very important to Powlus. Center Mark Zataveski (sprained neck) and guard Jeremy Akers (dislocated shoulder) will not be available for the game. 
In thflir place, junior Dusty Ziegler will be at center, while Steve Mise tic will take over at left guard. Ryan Leahy will be the other guard, while sophomores Mike Doughty and Chris Clevenger will be the tackles. 
They will be facing a strong Colorado front seven, led by linebackers Ted Johnson and Matt Russell. The two leading tacklers are the main reason why the Buffaloes give up only 114.2 yards per game on the ground. 
This front will be facing a rejuvenated tandem of Lee Becton and Ray Zellars, both of whom had to fight off mid-season injuries and are just now getting back into the form they displayed the first few weeks of the season. 
The Buffalo defensive line will probably not have to worry as much about the Irish running game as they will with Powlus' throwing ability. A strong pass rush will be needed to take the pressure off a secondary that does not boast a single senior starter. 

Free safety Steve Rosga leads the team with four interceptions, but the Buffaloes give up an average of 229.5 yards passing per game. 
Because of coverage problems, the Buffaloes have had to resort to blitzing on numerous occa­sions. They thrive on pressure. The more the bet­ter. 
Linebackers Greg Jones and Mike Phillips are the team sack leaders with 6.5 and 4.5 on the season. And their pressure has opened the door for the linemen many times. Defensive tackle Shannon Clavelle has five sacks and ten tackles for losses, while fellow trench warrior Darius Holland three sacks and eight tackles for losses. 
And if there's anything that can save Colorado from the lethal Powlus-to-Mayes combination, pressure on the quarterback can. 
And it better. The pair has hooked up for eleven touchdowns and a two-point conversion on the year. 
They have been the only consistent offensive threat for Notre Dame this year, and will need to continue their domination to give the Irish a chance. 
That is, a chance to keep up with Colorado. 

Most teams relish the opportunity to run to the wide side of the field. A chance to use more open turf could mean the difference between a touchdown and a loss of yardage. 
A defense usually 
tries to stop teams from running to the wide side. But Colorado downright challenges their opponents. 
Thfly don't say anything. They don't do anything dra­matic either, like hold a sign up to the oiTtmse. It's all implied. 
The sight of inside linebacker T!ld Johnson lining up as the boundary. or short, side line­backer should be enough to make anyone run to the wide side. 
But t11ams have yet to pick up on the hint. 
The proof is that Johnson is the team lead!lr in both solo and total tackles. The senior has recorclfld 14 7 on the year. 
Maybn opponents don't both­Pr to pay attention to Johnson. Or the entire defense for that matter. 
When a team has an oll'ensive attack like Colorado's, others tend to forget the defense. Why does it matter that you score 40 points when they can score 50 or 60? 

The Buffalo defense is pretty much a bunch of no-names. And they have an undercover superstar in Johnson. 
He doesn't try to show off or strut for the cameras. He just brings his lunch box to 
Colorado practice every day and works hard. 
The Buffaloes have even tried to give opponents a fightin chance this year. Johnson started as the wide side inside linebacker last season, and led the team in tackles. 
So the coaching staff figured they'd move him to a different side to give him a tougher chal­lenge. 
The result? More tackles this season, even before the bowl game. 16 stops on third down, tops on the team. An intercep­tion and a fumble recovery. Three fumbles caused. 
These are statistics that dwarf his numbers from last year. And they're numbers that could put him on the All­America team. 
He started this year 12th all­time in tackles in Colorado his­tory. llis ell'ort this year could put him near the top. 
Or, at the very least, not short by much. 
-M/KENORBU 



30 

Ifany team can win 
when it looks bleak, 
it's Notre Dame. A 
win would be a bit­
tersweet end to this year and a spring­board}Or next year. 
• HATING THE IRISH 
Quarterback 4 Two strong games against Air Force and USC has made Ron Powlus a better quarterback. Decisions still need to be made quicker, though. 
Running Back 4 Seeing Lee Becton and Ray Zellars back together in the Irish backfield is something that any Notre Dame fan loves and any opponent hates to see. 
Wide Receiver 4 Granted, Derrick Mayes is the only proven quality receiver that the Irish can boast, but he's just so good. No one can cover him. 
Offensive Line 3 Drastic improvements were made against Air Force and USC. But oh, to have just a tiny bit ofconsistency week to week. Who's to say what five will start and which will actu­ally play come January 2. 
Defensive Line 3 Much maligned throughout the season, Oliver Gibson and Paul Grasmanis have had strong showings week after week. 
Linebackers 4 The strongest unit on the Irish defense, but one that can't afford to miss tackles against Colorado. 
. Secondary 2 With the loss of Bobby Taylor, the secondary may have problems chasing Michael Westbrook. Lots of problems. 
Special Teams 2 Notre Dame boasts punters that can't punt and kickers that can't kick. The coaching staff must be proud. 
Coaching 4 Lou Holtz has more than a month to prepare for this one, but the odds may be abit overwhelming. 
-MIKENORBUT 



The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA Friday, December 9, 1994 
BUFFALOES ON THE OFFENSIVE* 

Buffaloes boast a Great Triutnverate 

By TIM SHERMAN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
In 1984, it was Converse sneakers. You know, Larry Bird, Magic Johnson, and Isaiah Thomas. The theme for the ads were "choose your weapon". 
In 1994, it is the Colorado offense. You know, Rashaan Salaam, Kordell Stewart, and Michael Wetsbrook. For departing coach Bill Mccartney, the theme is the same -choose your weapon. 
"Colorado very well may have the Heisman Trophy winner in Rashaan Salaam," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz noted. "Kordell Stewart is a great quaterback and Michael Westbrook is a fine receiver." 
Obviously, Holtz and his Irish know what they are up against. You stop Salaam, then Stewart and Westbrook will burn you. Shut down the passing attack, and Rashaan will run roughshod. 
At least that is how the argument looks on paper. The problem for Notre Dame -it is a pretty convincing one. 
Salaam, a 6-foot-1, 210-lb tailback, is slightly bigger than Lee Becton of the Irish, yet still pos­sesses better speed. That has translated into over 2,000 yards and 24 touchdowns this season. 


With the possible exception of FSU's Warrick Dunn, the Irish have not faced a back this season who even approximates the combination of tal­ent and tenacity that the CU's star junior does. 
Joining Salaam in the Buffalo backfield is quarterback Stewart. The 6-toot-3, 210-lb senior struck stardom earlier this season with his Doug Flutie-like last-gasp bomb to Westbrook to nip Michigan, but that is not P.ven close to all he has done. 
Completing over 62% of his passes, the three­year starter from Marrero, La. ~hrew for over 2,000 yards for McCartney's now well-balanced offense. Quite possibly just as athletic as ex-FSU quarterback and current New York Knick Charlie Ward, Stewart is just as dangerous on foot as he is with his arm. 
Evoking favorable comparisons to former CU signal-caller Darian Hagan, Stewart rushed for more yards this year (818) than Notre Dame. leading carrier (Randy Kinder with 735). 
In the 1990 and 1991 Orange Bowls, a stifling Irish defense allowed Hagan to complete just 8 of 25 passes for a mere 94 yards. 
Granted, Westbrook may be too good of a receiver to let Stewart suffer so mightily, but the early 90's Buffs also featured Michael Pritchard, a very talented target in his own right. In addi­tion, the CU rushing attack boasted Eric Bieniemy, a back who seemingly garnered just as much attention as Salaam. 
So, maybe a Notre Dame defense has seen an offense with as many weapons as this season's Colorado club. But that was a defense with the likes of Chris Zorich and Todd Lyght. This year's edition is nowhere near as talented and will take the field without their one true playmaker, the suspended Bobby Taylor. 
So, what, if anything, can Holtz and defensive coordinator Bob Davie do to slow down the run­ning ( and passing) Buffaloes? 
Well, if the past two games are any indication, the answer will likely involve a lot of blitzing. 
Against FSU and USC, the Irish knew they were up against teams with both a ground and aerial attack, so they resorted to the blitz. 
When asked aftre the game in Orlando was the blitz designed to stop the run or the pass, he shot back, "Both." 
It didn't stop the.run against FSU, but Tailback 
U. was unable to get the chains moving on the ground. That is they type of effort the Irish will need on January 2nd. 
Without Taylor, an impact player must step up. In recent games, Jeremy Sample has shown that knack. In Tempe, those like Lyron Cobbins and Bert Berry, who have yet to really show all they has to offer, must be accounted for. If not, it may be a long day in the sun for the Irish. 
Photo courtesy of Colorado University 
PLAYER TO WATCH•• * RASHAAN SALAAM 
The Sports yards in his eleven Illustrated cover jinx. games. Not 1000. No one knows why or Not 1500. Over 2000 how it happens, but it yards. If he would does. If your on the have played in more cover, that's it. than just six fourth Something bad is quarters, he would bound to happen to lli!lii!IIIL..---"'----'-=!ioJ have rushed for more you. Inexplicable, yet Salaam yards than the entire reality. Just ask Steve Notre Dame rushing McNair. attack (2372). Not too shabby. 
If you remember, SI wanted In the history of Divison lA to. "Hand him the Ileisman" football, just three players, earlier on this fall. Well, "Air" Barry Sanders, Marcus Allen, had a tough time with the and Mike Rozier have rushed handoff and fumbled. Out of for 2,000 yards. For all you nowhere (actually Boulder, not up on your Heisman trivia, CO, but close enough) came let be noted that all three Colorado's Rashaan Salaam, struck the famous pose. This who picked it up and has been year should be no different. "off to the races" ever since. If yards aren't enough to Odds are, tomorrow, Mr. convince you, take a gander at Salaam will cross the goaline the scoring column. 24 times at the Downtown Athletic Club he has rushed for touchdowns, with the Heisman Trophy including four games when he tucked tightly under his arm. crossed the goaline at least 
Does he deserve it? A quick three times. He scored nearly look at the stat book would half of CU's touchdowns. leave little doubt that the an-That's enough for Notre swer is a resounding yes. The Dame coach Lou Holtz. only question is where should "Colorado may very well you look. have the Heisman trophy win-
An appropriate point of ner in Rashaan Salaam," he departure would be the 
said.
yardage column. The San 
-TIM SHERMAN
Diego native covered 2055 

40 
Colorado could be the second best team in the nation, consider­ing their only loss was to No. 1 Nebraska. The might not take kindly to the Irish. 
Quarterback 5 Kordell Stewart can beat you by throwing or by running with the football. But make no mistake, he will beat you. 
Running Back 5 Rashaan Salaam is the frontrunner for the Heisman Trophy this year, and is by far the best the Irish will see this year. The problem is, with his speed and balance, Notre Dame might not see him all game, either. 
Wide Receiver 5 
Michael Westbrook proved that he can the ball no matter where it is on the field with his catch against Michigan. And he has a very capable counterpart in Christian Fauria. 
Offensive Line 4 
Stewart and Salaam could not have had such terrific sea­sons without a terrific offensive line, but this unit is sus­ceptible to a decent pass rush. 
• RATING THE BUFFALOES 
Defensive Line 5 Shannon Clavelle and Darius Holland have combined for eight sacks and almost 20 tackles for losses this year. 
Linebackers 4 Ted Johnson and Matt Russell are the two leading tack­lers for Colorado. This unit is tough against the run. 
Secondary 4 Steve Rosga heads up an experienced unit, but it is a weak link for the Buffalo defense. 
Special Teams 3 Andy Mitchell is a decent punter and Neil Voskeritchian is deadly inside 40 yards. Each unit is solid, not terrific. 
Coaching 5 
Bill McCartney will be coaching his final game as the Buffaloes _head coach. He has the talent to destroy Notre Dame, and his players will have the emotion to do it. 
-MIKE NORBUT 

Friday, December 9, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 4 






BUFFALOES 
1 2 3 4 T PASSING Comp Att Pet Yds TO tnt Lg Carruth 2 0 a-a 0 0 12 118 93 85 102 398 Stewart 147 237 62.0 2071 10 3 67 FIELOGOALS D-29 3D-39 4D-49 50+ Tot 43 36 81 51 211 Detmer 10 19 52.6 171 2 1 59 Voskeritchian 5-5 3-3 2-7 D-2 10-17 
cu Opp RECEIVING Rec Yds Avg TO Lg PUNTING~ No Avg Bk Lg Rrst downs 253 204 Westbrook 36 689 19.1 4 64 Mitchell 35 38.3 1 57 Total yards 5448 3781 Pauria 35 356 10.2 3 37 
Total yards per game 495.3 343.7 Salaam 24 294 12.3 0 41 KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO Lg Total offensive plays 773 758 Savoy 17 283 16.6 1 60 Carruth 7 20.7 0 29 Avg. yards per play 7.0 5.0 Carruth 14 255 18.2 2 67 Kidd 13 18.4 0 25 
Rushing yards 3206 1256 Kldd 9 120 13.3 1 44 Troutman 6 15.7 0 36 Rushing yards per game 291.5 114.2 Lepsis 7 59 8.4 0 16 Rushing plays 517 421 Troutman 5 87 17.4 0 39 PUNT RETURNS No Avg TO Lg 
Passing yards 2242 2525 Hudson 29 8.6 0 54 Passing yards per game 203.8 229.5 ALL-PURPOSE Rush Rec Ret Tot Avg Passes completed 157 199 Salaam 2055 294 0 2349 213.5 INTERCEPTIONS No Yds TO Lg Passes attempted 256 337 Westbrook 36 689 0 725 80.6 Rosga 4 11 0 25 Passes Intercepted 4 16 Stewart 639 0 0 639 58.1 Lecmiti 3 78 1 43 
Fumbles/ Fumbles lost 23/13 26/7 Carruth 41 255 145 401 44.6 Hudson 3 6 0 6 Penatties-Panalty yards 8D-707 81-633 Troutman 244 87 94 425 42.5 Third down conversions 57-130 59-163 Kldd 0 120 264 384 34.9 DEFENSE T A Tot FA PBU Sac 
Percentage 43.8 36.2 Parula 0 356 0 356 32.4 Johnson 92 55 147 1 3 4.0 Fourth down conversions 8-15 9-20 Savoy 0 283 0 283 31.4 Russel 63 42 105 1 2 0.0 Hudson 0 0 248 248 24.8 Clavelle 53 26 79 0 1 5.0 Yds/Gm No Ydo TO Lg Holland 49 28 77 1 2 3.0 
186.8 298 2055 24 67 SCORING TO 2XP 1XP FG Sal Pis Rosga 44 30 74 0 4 0.0 
58.1 122 639 7 60 Salaam 24 0 o-o 0 0 144 Jones 43 24 67 0 4 6.5 
24.4 49 244 8 17 Voskeritchian 0 0 50-51 10 0 80 Hicks 31 25 56 0 3 2.0 
18.8 25 113 Troutman 8 0 0-0 0 0 48 Lecmiti 26 20 46 2 3 0.0 
12.5 6 25 Stewart 7 0-0 0 42 Phillips 26 18 0 4.5 
4.6 3 41 Westbrook 4 0-0 0 24 Simmons 26 12 1 0.0 2 36 3 o-o 0 18 27 10 0 0.0 
No. Name Poa. HI. WI. VA 1 Vance Joseph RB 5-10 205 SA 2 James Kidd WR 5-8 160 so BILL McCARTNEY COLORADO 2 Billy T. Kidd 3 Donnell Lemot1 s 6-0 195 JR 13th season at Colorado N.E. LOUISIANA 48-13,W 4 Erik Mitchell CB 5-9 160 JA 
4 Ryan Sutter CB 6-1 FA Career Record at Air Force: 92-55-5 WISCONSIN 55-17, w
185 5 Blake Anderson WR 6-0 185 SA al Michigan 27-26, w 5 Keith Miller RB 6-0 225 so 
Against Notre Dame: 1-3 
6 Ryan Black s 5-10 185 FA at Texas 34:31, w 7 Dalton Simmons CB 6-Q 185 JR 
Highlights: Coached the Buffs to a Oct. !l~; · at Missouri 38·23, w 
7 John Hessler QB 6-2 185 FA 8 T.J. Cunningham s 6-0 185 JR 

National Championship in 1990 after Oct. 15 OKLAHOMA -45-7, w 
9 Leon Merritt TE 6-3 235 FA 
Oct.22 KANSAS STATE ;35--21, w
finishing the season with an 11-1-1 14 Koy Detmer QB 6-1 170 so 
10 Kardell Stewart QB 6-3 210 SA 
Oct.29 at Nebraska. 7-24, L 15 Steve Rosga s 6-1 205 so 
record. Won three straight Big Eight Nov.5 OKLAHOMA ST. 17-3, w 16 Matt Russel LB 6-2 235 so 17 Ayyub Abdui-Rahmaan QB 6-0 200 FA titles between 1989-1991. Nov. 12 al Kansas 51-26, w 
17 Nell Voskeritchian 
K 5·9 160 JR Nov. 19 IOWA STATE 41-20, w 
p
18 Joeltchigan 5-10 123 FA 18 Jason Burney OB 6-2 195 FA 19 Rashaan Sslaam RB 6-1 210 JR Kenny Wilkins s 6-2 205 so Rae Carruth WR 6-Q 180 so Etlon Davis CB 5-9 185 FA Shay Oav1s RB 6-0 185 so 
• THE SERIES • 
Eric Davis WR 6-2 170 FA 23 Allen Wilbon LB 6:0 230 so 25 Michael Slevin K 6-1 195 FA 
LAST TIME RECORDS 
26 Herchell Troutman RB 5-8 185 FA 27 Deren Tadlock CB 6-0 190 so 
p
28 Andy Mitchell 6-2 195 FA 29 Tim Ross s 6-2 200 JR 
Colorado 10 ND leads 3-1 
31 Robert Portis CB 5·8 155 FA 32 Rafael Cooper RB 6-0 190 FA 
Notre Dame 9 Last ND win 
32 Ralael Gonzalez FA 5-9 130 JA 33 Ron Merkerson LB 6·3 245 FA 
21-6, 1990 Nathan Campbell CB 5-10 195 so Marton Barnes RB 5-10 190 FA 
A punt return for a touch-Last Colorado win 
Marlon Branda QB 6-3 280 SA Jon Knutson LB 6·4 240 SA 
down by Raghib Ismail 
10-9, 1991 Marcus Washington s 6·3 205 FA Landon Henry RB 6·1 200 FA 
(right) in the 1991 Orange 
Streak 1 by CU 
Landa Hand RB 5·10 210 JR Adam D1etz CB 6-Q 180 so 
Bowl was called back At Notre Dame Stadium 
Tennyson McCarty TE 6-3 240 FA Allred Lord WR 5-9 230 SA 
because of a clipping Notre Dame leads 1-0 
s 6-Q 190 FA James T eekirk OB 6-2 180 SA 
penalty, giving the Buffs At Neutral Sites 
Curtis Musfeldt CB 5-11 175 JR Jason Rice s 5-8 185 FA 
the win and National Title. 
Tied 1-1 
Maurice Hennques s 6-1 195 so Ted Johnson LB 6-4 240 SA Chris Hudson CB 5-11 195 SA Tony Berti OT 6-6 270 SA Kyle Smith OT 6·5 270 so Jeff Nabhol.z LB 6-5 240 so Ryan Olson NT 6-2 250 FA Terrell Cad& LB 6-4 210 FA Greg Jones LB 6·5 230 so Coleman Johnson c 6-2 FA
290 --·--------------------.-------------------­Coleman Lantern G 6-9 112 so ,. __ Pat Corcoran c 6·3 275 so . . 
~ 
• I"Ji,o[ • :.;, ---__ _._,
Heath Irwin OG 6-5 285 JR 

COLORADo COLORADO r~ 
I • " . . .. . 1 Chris Naeole OG 6-4 290 so 
Clint Moore NT 6·4 285 JR i WR 21-Rae Carruth, 6·0, 180, SO OFFENSE DEfENSE ! OLB 59-Greg Jon~s,' 6-4,· 230,:SO 
Gerald Ancar OG 6·2 260 so : 
2-James Kidd, 5-8, 1'60, SO I 36-Jon Knutson, 6-4, 235, SA
Ken Browne OT 6·6 270 SA I
Ben Nichols OG 6-6 275 FA TE 86-Christian Fauria, 6-4, 235, SR LT 92-Shannon Clavelle, 6-3, 275, JR Ben Pennies DT 6-2 420 so 
41-T. McCarty, 6-3, 240, FA 95-Daryl Price, 6-4, 235, JR
Lee Hipp OG 6-3 270 JR 
Lee Genes NG 5-2 380 SA LT 50-Tony Berti, 6-6,280, SR NT 94-Kerry Hicks, 6-6, 260, JR 
Derek West OT 6-8 285 SA 
75-Aaron Wade, 6-6, 285, FA 55-Ryan Olson, 6-2, 260, FA
Nick Ziegler OT 6-6 240 FA 
Andrew Welsh c 6-6 245 FA LG 63-Heath Irwin, 6-5, 280, JR AT 93-Darius Holland, 6-5, 285, SA 
Aaron Wade OT 6-6 290 FA Chad Hammond OG 6-4 250 JR 
52-Kyle Smith, 6-5, 270, SO 66-Ciint Moore, 6-3, 280, JR Viliaml Maumau DT 6-2 285 FA oc 64-B. Stoltenberg, 6-2, 265, JR OLB 97-Mike Phillips, 6-3, 210, FR 
OT 6-3 280 FA 
Matt Jones OT 6·5 265 so 74-Andrew Welsh, 6-6, 260, FA 36-Jon Knutson, 6-4, 235, SA Phil Savoy WR 180 RG 65-Chris Naeole, 6-4, 280, SO ILB 16-Matt Russell, 6-2, 235, SO
6-2 FA Savoy Special WR 6-1 189 so 
Michael Westbrook 70-Ben Nichols, 6-6,.270, FA 23-AIIen Wilbon, 6-0, 230, SO
WR 6·4 210 SA Chris Anderson WA 6-4 220 FA 
AT 72-Derek West, 6-8, 285, SR ILB 46-Ted Johnson, 6-4, 240, SR 
Jeff Blackmon TE 6·4 240 FA 
Christian Faurla TE 6-4 235 SA 78-Melvin Thomas, 6-3, 285, FA 33-Aon Merkerson, 6-3, 245, FA Clifton Peters TE 6-3 220 FA TE 89-Desmond Dennis, 6-3, 255, SO LCB 47-Chris Hudson, 5-f1, 190, SA 
Matt Leps1s TE 6-5 265 so 
Desmon Dennis TE 6-3 250 99-Norm Barnett, 6-2, 235, SA 4-Erik Mitchell, 5-9, 160, SA
so 
Aaron Marshall DT 6-4 220 FA 
WR 81-Mike Westbrook, 6-4, 210, SR ss 3-Donnell Leomiti, 6-0, 205, JR
Mike Lorentz DT 6-4 265 FA 
Shannon Clavelle DT 6·3 270 JR 80-Phil Savoy, 6-2, 190, FA 6-Ayan Black, 5-10, 190, FA Darius Holland DT 6-5 285 QB FS
Kerry Hicks NT 260 SA 10-Kordell Stewart, 6-3, 21 0, SR 15-Steve Rosga, 6-1, 205, SO
6-6 JR 
Adam Hicks DB 5-10 155 JR 14-Koy Detmer, 6-1, 170, SO 8-T.J. Cunningham, 6-0, 190, JA 
Daryl Price LB 6-5 240 JR 
TB 19-Aashaan Salaam, 6-1, 215, JR RCB 7-Dalton Simmons, 6-0, 180, JR
Prices Right DT 6-3 344 so 
Mike Forney LB 6-4 210 FA 26-Herchell Troutman, 5-7,.185, FA 22-Eiton Davis, 5-9, 185, FA 
Mike Phillips LB 6-3 205 FA Norm Barnett TE 6-1 255 SA 
DT 

---~-------------~­
page 5 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, December 9, 1994 


FIGHTING IRISH 
''.,'" , . 

• • •  
1  2  3  4  T  PASSING  Comp  AH  Pet  Yds  TO  In!  Lg  FIELOGOALS  G-29  311-39  40-49  50+  Tot  
50  117  82  69  318  Powlus  119  222  53.6  1729  19  9  60  Schroffner  4-5  2-5  0-0  0-0  6-10  
26  63  47  103  239  Krug  7  16  43.8  98  1  1  31  Cengia  0-0  4-6  1-2  0-0  5-8  
NO  Opp  RECEIVING  Rae  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
222  218  Mayes  47  847  18.0  11  60  Ford  34  39.8  0  61  
yards  4230  3661  Stafford  18  254  14.1  3  34  Wachtel  12  35.7  1  48  
Total yards per game  384.5  332.8  Zellars  12  114  9.5  2  21  
Total offensive plays  757  779  Mosley  11  118  10.7  0  37  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Avg. yards per play  5.59  4.70  McBride  6  57  9.5  0  19  Mosley  13  24.6  0  47  
yards  2372  1538  Becton  6  50  8.3  1  21  Farmer  5  12.0  0  14  
Rushing yards per game  215.6  139.8  Edwards  5  58  11.6  0  39  Zellars  5  11.8  0  23  
Rushing plays  513  444  
Passing yards  1858  2123  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rec  Ret  Tot  Avg  PUNT RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Passing yards per game  168.9  193.0  Becton  550  50  17  617  88.1  Mosley  8  4.4  0  12  
Passes completed  129  190  Zellars  466  114  59  639  79.9  
Passes attempted  244  335  Mayes  0  847  0  847  77.0  INTERCEPTIONS  No  Yds  TO  Lg  
Passes intercepted  11  7  Mosley  187  118  355  660  66.0  Maiden  1  44  1  44  
Fumbles I Fumbles lost  22/10  30/15  Kinder  702  12  0  714  64.9  Taylor  38  0  38  
Penalties-Penalty yards  55-437  50-433  Edwards  307  58  0  365  33.2  Magee  31  0  31  
i  down conversions  58-149  48-154  Stafford  24  254  29  307  27.9  Davis  11  0  11  
Percentage  38.9  31.2  Farmer  131  15  60  206  22.9  __,  
Fourth down conversions  11-16  12-19  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FR  PBU  Sac  
SCORING  TO  2XP  1XP  FG  Sal  Pis  Magee  61  21  82  0  5  0.0  
Yds/Gm  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Mayes  11  1  0-0  0  0  68  Sample  51  18  69  0  1  5.0  
78.6  100  550  5.5  3  37  Schroffner  0  0  30-30  6  0  48  Goheen  42  19  61  2  4  4.0  
63.8  119  702  5.9  4  41  Zellars  0  0-0  0  0  30  Gibson  38  22  60  1  0  3.0  
58.2  79  466  5.9  3  62  Becton  0  0-0  0  0  24  Wooden  49  10  59  1  8  0.0  
27.9  48  307  6.4  2  37  0  0-0  0  0  24  38  15  53  1  1  0.0  
18.7  34  187  5.5  24  0  0-0  0  0  35  14  49  1  1  1.0  
14.6  131  5.0  22  0  5  0  27  20  47  0  2  2.5  
3.8  5.0  0  0  0  31  11  42  0  4.0  

THE STARS • • • 
No. Name Pos. HI. WI. YR 1 Derrick Mayes WR 6-1 205 JR
LOU HOLTZ 
2 LeShane Saddler s 5-11 196 SR Dan Farrell WR 6-0 166 SR Rob Powlus QB 6-4 218 so Lee Becton RB 6-0 191 SR
Ninth season at Notre Dame Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 179 so 
Leon Blunt QB 5-9 173 FR
Career Record at ND: 83-23-2 Gus Ornstein QB 6-5 210 FA 
LaRon Moore CB 5-9 193 SR
Against Colorado: 1-1 Mike Perona QB 6-1 186 so 
Latry Wright ·ATH 5-11 1.90 FR
Highlights: Won the 1988 national Tom Krug QB 6-5 199 so 
Scott Cengia K 5-9 167 FR
championship and finished second in 6-4 soBrian Ford p 193 John Bishop CB 6-0 171 so
both 1989 and 1993. 
Ivory Covington DB 5-11 160 FR 
Sun Devil Stadium 
Tempe, Ari. Home of the Fiesta Bowl Opened in 1958 Capacity 73,656 Surface Natural Grass Irish at Fiesta Bowl 1-0 CU at Fiesta Bowl 0-1 
~-~­
~­
TE  80-0scar McBride, 6-5; 271, SA  
88-Leon Wallace. 6-3, 275, JR  
T  95-Chris Clevenger, 6·7, 250, SO  
69-David Quist, 6-4, 289, JR  
G  64-Steve Misetic, 6·4, 291, JR  
62-Mike McCullough, 6-3, 295, JR  
c  n-Dusty Zeigler, 6·5, 264, JR  
57-Rick Kaczenski, 6·4, 25·1, SO  
G  72-Ryan Leahy, 6-3, 290, SR  
62-Mike McCullough, 6·3, 295, JR  
T  73-Mike Doughty, 6·8, 280, SO  
70-Mike McGlinn, 6-5, 297, SA  
QB  3-Ron Powlus, 6·2, 217, SO  
11-Thomas Krug, 6-4, 200, SO  
FL  24-Charles Stafford, 5-9, 187, SR  
83-Scott Sollmann, 5·8, 165, SO  
SE  1-Derrick Mayes, 6·0, 199, JR  
18-Cikai Champion, 5-11, 176, SO  
TB  4-Lee Becton, 6-0, 191, SR  
25-Randy Kinder, 6-0, 207, SO  
FB  34-Ray Zellars, 5·11, 221, SO  
44-Mark Edwards, 6·0, 228, SO  

'· '.
IRISH IRISH:, 
LE


OFFENSE DEFENSE 
-~ 
0 
-~ -0 -0,., H 
0 
DT NG RE 
ILB 
1IC )C. 0 
ILB 

-)C. ­
LCB
0 • ­
FS 
ss 
-
Paul Rogers QB 6-1 204 so Allen Rossum DB 5-9 175 FR Brian Perry s 6-1 197 so Mark McKenna QB 5-10 188 so Brian Magee s 5-10 201 JR Cikai Champion SE 5-11 176 so Chris Wachtel p 6-0 200 so Malcom Johnson WR 6-5 193 FR Bobby Taylor CB 6-3 201 JR Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 183 SR Billy Gibbs ss 5-10 178 so Charles Stafford WR 5-10 183 SR Randy Kinder RB 6-1 200 so Mark Monahan s 6-0 178 JR Tracy Graham CB 5-10 190 SR Ken Barry RB 6-1 195 FR Brian Meter CB 5-7 152 SR Robert Farmer RB 6-1 210 so Clement Stokes RB 6-0 200 FR John McLaughlin DB 6-4 225 FA Ray Zellars RB 5-11 221 SR Richard Rolle WR 6-1 159 FR Jeremy Sample LB 5-11 223 SR Travis Davis s 6-0 197 SR Sim Stokes CB 6-2 191 so Kinnon Tatum LB 6-1 209 so Kevin Carretta LB 6-1 227 JR Joe Babey LB 6-2 225 JR Alton Maiden LB 6-4 248 SA Bill Wagasy LB 6-2 228 JR Marc Edwards RB 6-2 221 so Jeff Kilburg DE 6-4 258 so Bill Mitoulas LB 6-0 210 FA Renaldo Wynn LB 6-3 254 JR 
-
Lyron Cobbins LB 6-2 230 so Greg Stec c 6-2 265 SR Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 245 so Germaine Holden DE 6-4 252 SR Jim Kordas OG 6-5 269 SR Justin Goheen LB 6-2 228 SA Oliver Gibson NG 6-3 275 SR Steve Armbruster c 6-0 220 SR Rick Kaczenski c 6-4 251 so Jeremy Nau LB 6-4 226 SR Jon Bergman LB 6-1 220 SR Bert Berry LB 6-4 221 so Jeff Kramer LB 6-3 215 FR 
Mike McCullough OG 6-3 295 JR
4Q.;Renaldo Wynn, 6-3, 244, JR Joe Aden! LB 6-2 210 SR 
Steve Misetic OG 6-5 280 JR
51-Melvin Dansby, 6-4, 245, SO 
Brett Galley LB 5-9 188 so 
93-Paul Grasmanis, 6-3, 286, JR Kurt Belisle LB 6-3 220 FR 
Mark Zataveski c 6-6 300 SA
90-Brian Hamilton, 6-3, 288, SA 
Paul Mickelbart OL 6-4 265 FR 
55-0liver Gibson, 6-2, 275, SR David Quist OT 6-5 264 JR 
Mike McGlinn OT 6-6 285 SR
42-Aiton Maiden, 6-2, 259, JR 
Herb Gibson OT 6-5 309 SR 
58-Jeremy Nau, 6-4, 233, SR Ryan Leahy OG 6-4 285 SR 
Mike Doughty OT 6-8 280 so
52-Germaine Holden, 6-3, 271, SA 
Will Lyell c 6-5 274 JR 
Chris Clevenger OT 6-7 250 so
OLB So-Bertrand Berry, 6-4, 221, SO 
95-Corey Bennett, 6-2, 205, FA 36-Jeremy Sample, 5-11, 229, SR 39-Kinnon Tatum, 5-11, 214, SO 54-Justin Goheen, 6·3, 235, SR 49-Lyron Cobbins, 6-0, 234, SO 14-lvory Covington, 5·11, 160, FR 15-AIIen Rossum, 5·9, 175, FA 17-Brian Magee, 5·9, 204, JR 2-LeShane Saddler, 5-11, 196, SA 9-LaRon Moore, 5·9, 193, SR 37-Travis Davis, 6·0, ~98, SA 
Jeremy Akers Dusty Zeigler Jon Spickelmier Damian Peter Oscar McBride John Lynch Joe Carrol Mike Denvir Dan McConnell Ben Herrig Ben Foos Cikai Champion Leon Wallace 
89 Ty Goode 90 Brian Hamilton 91 Darnell Sm"h 92 Luke Petitgout 
OT OG OL OL TE WR WR TE WR WR DE WR TE WR DE DE TE 
6-5 6-6 6-4 6-7 6-5 6-2 
5-10 6-3 
5-10 
5-10 6-4 
5-11 6-3 6-1 6-3 6-5 6-7 286 264 250 295 258 188 182 231 178 168 244 176 275 173 276 265 260 SR JR FR FR SR JR SA 
so 
JR JR JR 
so 
JR FR SR 
so 
FA 
93 Paul Grasmanis NG 6-3 277 JR
RCB 22-Shawn Wooden, Si-1 0, 190, SR 
94 Reggie Fleurima NG 6-3 266 SA 95 Corey Bennett LB 6-2 205 FR 96 Stefan Schroffner K 5-9 164 SR 97 Corey Redder LB 6-2 215 FR 98 Pete Chryplewicz TE 6-5 255 JR 99 Cliff Stroud DE 6-3 274 JR 
15-AIIen Rossum, 5·9, 175, FA 


-
.._...--------------------------------------~---------~-----------------------------~ 
Friday, December 9, 1994 1 he Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 6 -S---e~fl--l.-O---f-S~----------------~~~~~~~~~~~;===~~~~~..~~~im~a=~:n~e~a~l~l~th~e~p=ro~g=n~o=s~ti=ca~t=o=rs~a=re~~m=:a~a~l~l~th~e~w~a~y~t~h:r:ou~g~h~.~.. ~S~a~m~p~l~e·said. 
continued from page I 
they signed on to play for the Irish and were told...You're not worthy. 
Jeremy Sample heard it the day after he signed. Sitting as his home near Chicago reading USA Today and the Chicago Tribune. seeing the quotes that said his class was unlike any other Irish coach Lou Holtz had brought in. He looked for the names of his future team­mates among the list of All-Americans but found few. 
"The illegitimate class, that's what they called us," Sample said. 
The class was not full of promise but full of promises. Players like Sample hoping to silence the critics and make their mark. To put an end to the ques­tion...were we worthy? And as that group of seniors prepares to face Colorado (1 0-1) in the Fiesta Bowl the question still rises and sets like the mm on an Arizona desert. 
The numbers. The numbers. They hope you will not judge solely on the numbers. Of the 24 men who came in as freshman in 1991, 22 remain on cam­pus, Linemen Erie Kuechenberg and Tyler Young transferred after the 1991 and 1992 season. Of those that stayed, nine are starters and 16 will graduate with a varsity letter. By comparison, there were eighteen starters and 21 monogram winners in the class of 1990. 
The most devastating of numbers: Last year 11-1 . This year 6-4-1. 
The number of starters and letter win­ners may tell the most about the amount of talent brought in by Holtz and com­pany following a 1990 season which ended with a 10-9 loss to Colorado in the Orange Bowl. 
The class of 1991 was ranked among the top-20 recruiting groups by the nar­rowest of margins. Notre Dame boasted four straight No. 1 groups before their The Observer/Jake Peters Jeremy Sample went from throw in recruit to a starter for the Irish. 

arrival. classes bursting with All­Americans. The 1991 group had only two so-called blue-chippers, Huntley Bakieh and Michael Miller. Bakieh's career never materialized because of a back injury. Miller was billed as the next Raghib "Rocket" Ismail but then fell short and was dismissed from the team this past fall because of his role in a cheek-writing scandal in Texas. 
The group came in without much fan­fare and will undoubtedly leave the same way. None are projected first­round picks according to Mel Kiper Jr's Draft Publications Inc. In the past two years, seven Notre Dame players have been selected in the opening round, the most of any school in the country. 
Only one senior, linebacker Justin Goheen has earned honorable mention All-American honors. Last year, ten players earned such an honor or were first or second team. 
saying they were right," Mark Zataveski said. "But it is not as bad as it could be. it didn't help that we followed the class we did. They were the most talented class to go through Notre Dame. Anyone would have paled by comparison." 
"We have 24 very, very good competi­tors," Holtz said the day he signed the class of 1991. "You cannot play the game if you are not tough." 
There are certain things even tough­ness cannot overcome. Players like Bakieh, John Taliaferro, and Jeff Riney all were lost at one time or another because of injury. Bakieh had the back. Taliaferro tried to play through two shoulder surgeries. Riney's neck forced him to retire. 
The three career-ending injuries, two transfers and Paul Failla's decision LO stick to baseball left Notre Dame with six players not contributing during their final year, triple what was unavailab!e in 1991. 
Throw in injures to Ray Zellars anJ Lee Beeton and the class of 1991 playeJ most of this year without one-third of its original base. 
It also didn't help the class that Holtz's hands were tied when he began recruit­ing the class. Although Notre Dame's coach downplayed it at the time, it was rumored that nearly 30 players the coaching staff targeted as players they wished to recruit were stamped unac­ceptable by the admissions office. Director of admissions Kevin Rooney said that the standards had not been raised just that it was a year when cer­tain student-athletes didn't make the grade as Notre Dame student athletes. 
The reality for Holtz and company was a number of scholarships available and a lack of top-flight players to fill them. That is why, some say, so many seniors never lettered and never pushed for a starting spot. They were last minute re­placements. 
"A lot of us have had to fight that stig­"When we were freshmen we talked about it, but all you can do is try and fight it." 

Fighting it in the weight room and in practice and in studying more and more film than the rest. That is what Sample and Zataveski did, and that is why they went from fill-ins to starters, and on more than one occasion, stars. 
"Most of the guys work hard, its not just work. Sometimes injuries come and things you can't control," Zataveski said. ''I'm not going to say that the work didn't pay off for me of for Jeremy, because it did. But there's more to it than that." 
There's also more to the criticism then knocks from the media and poor rank­ings from the Tom Lemmings and Max Emfingers of this world. There is lloltz. 
Throughout their time here, Holtz has made it public his dislike for the class. Not as people, but as talent. He won­dered early this season where the senior le <tdership would come from. He answered questions about his seniors beginning with, "There not the most tal­ented of groups, but. .." 
And that "but" has never clearly defined this class as anything but illegit­imate. 
"He tried to use (our lack of talent) as a motivational tool," Zataveski said. "Whether or not it worked I don't know. lie was confronted with what the media said about us and maybe that had a lot to do with what he said." 
What the media and Holtz has said will matter little when the class of 1991 takes the field in Tempe. 
"This groups been tremendous," Holtz said. "They've been through some hard times. but they keep hanging in there." 
And they will continue, holding on toll the season is long over and the rain stops and each player can ask himself the question everyone has poured on them since the day they signed. 
"Was I worthy?" 


3 O
SPECTICUlAR 
SLICES Order with your [18~~ favorite toppings. Over 2 feet long. 
30 inches.. That's almost ayard of pizza. 
TOPPINGS ONIONS • GREEN PEPPER • BEEF PEPPERONI • MUSHROOMS BLACK OLIVES • HAM CHEDDAR CHEESE • HOT PEPPERS SAUSAGE • BACON • PINEAPPLE  EXTRAS TWISTY BREAD & DIPPING SAUCE...$ .99 Pizza -Garlic -Jalapeno Available Upon Request COKE or DIET COKE...$ .65/can $1.95/2-liter  


~----------------------------------, 

I 
/ C/)
-
0 
~<(
:EN 
0~ 
ca. 
am
I aJ 
-
' ....... _____ 
' .... _____ 

~----------------------------------,
/

It!' 10 p~ WINGS ~0~ '. 0 HOT or BBQ \.-"{ .. ~ 
~ < TWISTY BREAD ~6~"' .~,_, ~ ~ with dipping sauee 




~<; .~ 
ca. CAN OF ••• 
COKE/DIET COKE 

VaHdat portopa.ting staes only Not valid With any other after Pncea may vary Customer pa)'l sales tax Delivery areaslimill!td to ensure sale dn-.,ng. Our drivers carry leq tlan $20.00. Our ~ 
....... ______dn_::~ar~n~p~~z~l~l~e~eli:en~.~g~~ou~~~Pi~a~~-·~c:._LJ~te_;tT_:me_on:., 

I topping 
510~2.. 

Vabd at par1cipabng staes 01ly Not vahd With any other offer. Pricea may vary Cuataner pays sB:~ea tax Delivery areas limited to ~naure sale dnvtng Our dnver. carry laM l'lan $20.00. Our 
-d~~~n~~~z~~la_:e~el~~ ~9~~~~-PI~a~.. ~c-/..J~~"'2_me_otr~, 
c::::...:E:.:E:,Sj;:E:, 
PIZZA 


S5.12.. 


Vabd at par11dpatinQ staea cnly Not valid with any oCher offer. Pncee may vary Customer PBY' 
1 
salea tax. Dehvery areas llmitBd to ensure sale dn\'lng. Our drivers carry lesa tlan $20.00. Our 
-d~er~ ar~n~p~~z~ f:::la~e~eh~eri: ~~:_au~ ~nd_P'~a~~-·~c_LJ:"te~T~m~on~., 1 
' 
' 
\ 
1 
page 7 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, December 9, 1994 



azzling 


every game and snared focal point of defensive plans to stop the 
more touchdown passes Irish. in a single season (11) But he always managed to get open, than any other player in and he always made the catch, no mat­

The junior proved game in and game out 
why he is the Observer Player of the ·Year 
D
Notre Dame history. ter how impossible it seemed. Well, It was that steady and almost always. 
errick Mayes walks funny. His major college wide receiver worth a pair often spectacular play that made Mayes "Derrick Mayes catching touchdownknees curve inward, almost of Reeboks can run. 
the obvious choice for the 1994 passes isn't news, but dropping a passrubbing together with each It's those hands. Bare or wrapped in a Observer Player of the Year award. over the middle is," Holtz said. "That'sstep, and his toes point outward at pair of Neumann gloves, Mayes fingers something I've never seen before."

opposite angles. It's an unusual stride always seem to cling to any football 
"v
atching Mayes make a tough Wide open in the middle of an Airthat belies his acute athleticism. thrown in his direction. 

Force zone, May·es dropped a pass

Whtih that'Striae'"ttirfis-iiffo a ·sprint, "He's incredible. You know every time catch is a study in acrobatics. 
Powlus put right in his gut. Gasps of sur­

and all of a sudden he's on the other you throw it that he's got a chance to get He leaps and twists and flips, it," Notre Dame quarterback Ron somehow bringing the ball back to earth prise came from the crowd that had wit­
side of some unfortunate cornerback, nessed Mayes' most impressive perfor­
Mayes ability is immediately evident. Powlus said. "He makes it so easy from with him. 
my end, and so much fun." He did it last year against Boston mance of the season to that point withBut his legs are not what separate him Mayes caught at least one pass in College, igniting the late drive that gave eight catches and two touchdownsfrom the middle of the pack. Every 

the Irish their short-lived lead with an against the Fal"ons. impossible diving, twisting grab. The latter scoring catch made him the 
He did it again this year against all-time single-season leader at Notre Michigan, rising to snatch a Powlus pass Dame. But he couldn't catch the sim­in the back of the endzone, giving Notre plest of passes. 
Dame another late lead it would watch "I was thinking about another record slip away. (three touchdown catches in a single And he does it in practice every day. game)," Mayes admitted. "I just lost my 
"It's not all that impressive to us any­concentration." more," Powlus said. "We see him do it But it didn't matter. The game was all the time." over and his coronation already com­
-
Even when the Irish are supposed to plete, a made-for-television crowning. be taking it easy, Mayes does it, endan­NBC sideline reporter John Dockery gering his limbs and frightening his promised to deliver the football from coaches. Mayes' record-breaking touchdown 
"On Mondays and Thursdays (during catch to his parents, seated somewhere the regular season) we practice without near the top of Notre Dame Stadium. pads and I mentioned to (offensive coor­When he crossed the goal line, 
dinator) Dave Roberts that it was impor­Dockery was waiting and Mayes handed 
tant that we keep Derrick from diving him the ball and stripped off his gloves, for balls," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. memorabilia of his greatest moment. "He's always diving all over the field, "It was a really special moment, I'm 
landing on his shoulder, on his nose, on glad (my parents) could be there to his chest. He just loves the game." share it," Mayes said. 
That love bore the dedication that has But now that he has done something malle Mayes one of the best ever to run no other receiver in Irish history could pass patterns for Notre Dame. do, now that he has carved a niche for 
He emerged almost immediately, scor­himself as arguably the best receiver ing on his first three catches as a college ever to wear blue and gold, what chal­player. But he exploded last season lenge remains for Mayes at this level. against Boston College. His teammates have named him this "He made a lot of big plays for us last year's Most Valuable Player. And his year," Holtz said. "But he particularly statistics are without peer, considering came of age against Boston College." Notre Dame's ground-oriented offense. 
Since that game, Mayes has been Mayes has long been considered a Notre Dame's No. 1 offensive threat, the candidate to leave school a year early to only consistent weapon in the Irish arse­seek new challenges in the NFL. It's a 
nal. decision he must make soon and Notre 
With Notre Dame's normally powerful Dame fans have their fingers crossed running attack faltering for much of the that he'll choose to stay in South Bend. season, and no consistently reliable re­"I think about pro ball, but I want to 
ceivers other than Mayes, he became a get a ring," Mayes said earlier this sea­son. "That's all I'm concentrating on right now-being No.1."
Whether he leaped (top), dove, or flipped (left), Derrick Mayes was always there to Come April, he may be concentrating make the catch. His eleven touchdown on being a No. 1 draft pick. If not, he'll catches broke a Notre Dame single season 
likely find himself filling this space again 
record, last set by Jack Snow in 1964. 
next season. 



• o f I 1-t t 
Friday, December 9, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
• JOCK STRIP 
The bottom line is: Like it or not, 

PREY-
we're destined fo·r the desert 

TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 
I
t doesn't matter. It just don't 
Maybe we'd1like to think otherwise, but 

1 . Nebraska(38) 12-0-0 1526 1 
we're all pretty smart kids here. We
matter. Argue all you want. The 

2. Penn St.(24) 11-0-0 1511 2
know greed when we see it.
front-runners are beside them­

3. Miami 10-1-0 1398 4
But it's not just Dick Rosenthal and "How can we be going to a bowl like Father Beauchamp that spend thier 
selves with venom. 

4. Colorado 10-1-0 1345 5 
the Fiesta Bowl", they scream. "We're days and nights dream of little dollars 

5. Florida 10-1-1 1313 6 
terrible. Let B.C. go. Let USC go. Let signs, the Fiesta Bowl brass also knows 

6. Alabama 11-1-0 1217 3
the bottom line is where it's at. The go for all I care. We don't belong." Tim Sherman Fightin' Irish mean ratings, which Sam Houston Institute of Technology 

7. Florida St. 9-1-1 1211 7 They see four losses and visions of Assistant Sports means bucks. You've heard it before, 
8. Texas A&M 10-0-1 1081 8 Prairie View A&M come dancing into Editor you'll hear it again. You either love 
9. Auburn 9-1-1 1059 9
their heads. If we're not undefeated, Notre Dame or hate them. It's really 

pretty elementary. 10. Colorado St. 10-1-0 968 10
we're unworthy. 

"Colorado is gonna crush us. We have less of If you love the Irish, you will watch with all 11 . Kansas St. 9-2-0 943 11 a chance than the sun does of coming out in 
your optimism that the ghost of Jerome Bettis

-
12.0regon 9-3-0 916 12
South Bend in January. That guy Salami or will return, maybe in the form of Ray Zellars, 

and once again, what tho' the odds be great or 13.0hio St. 9-3-0 751 13 going to run all over us. It's gonna be embar­small, old Notre Dame will win over all. 14.Utah 9-2-0 700 14 ham-on-rye or whatever the hell his name is, is 
L\J
If you're a Holtz-hater, you'll be tuned into
rassing, 1 tell ya." 

15.Arizona 8-3-0 625 15
MIAMI 

suasion. You know the type. They have a cer­they deserve -a good, ol' fashioned butt-whop­16. Mississippi St. 8-3-0 560 16 tain ensemble, almost like a uniform, that pin' (most effective when said with a deep 
17. Virginia Tech 8-3-0 486 17 must be worn· to Irish games. They think it re­Then there are those of the more loyal per­NBC to see the boys in blue and gold get what 
Alabama drawl). 

18. Virginia 8-3-0 416 19
Either way, a decent amount of those foot­or belt they have on that day. It matters even 
ally matters to Lee Becton what shoes, socks, 

ball-watching Americans will tune in. If we're 19.N. Carolina 8-3-0 402 18 more to Justin Goheen whether or not they on, those who prefer to spend their New Year's 20. Michigan 7-4-0 372 20 have their lucky Celtic Cross dangling from 
Day, or as is the case this season, their New 

21.USC 7-3-1 355 21 
their necks. They vehemently maintain that Year's Second Day, stuck in front of the TV 

22.BYU 9-3-0 237 22
under a mountainous pile of Doritos (or for the "We got screwed last year because they hate more diet-conscious, Fat Free Rold Gold ~ 23.N.C. State 8-3-0 222 23 "We are N.D.," that we belong against the best. 
us. They just can't stand us. Take advantage Pretzels) and six-packs of Coors, will watch. 

24. Washington St. 7-4-0 186 24 
of it when they want us. Hey, we'll show 'em. Things happen for a reason. So far, the Irish ~ 

25.Duke 8-3-0 99 25
Just like in '92. It'll be the Sugar Bowl and are two for two in these types of games. In Florida all over again. Go Irish." both the aforementioned Sugar Bowl and the CJM 
Hate to break it to, fellas (gals, too) but all the '93 Cotton Bowl, Notre Dame was courted • SPORTS EXTRA STAFF arguing in Arizona won't change a thing.. despite the existence of supposedly better We're going. That's it. teams. But, as luck would have, we won both. EDITOR: George Dohrmann 
If they want us, they can have us. As the Still, it doesn't matter. It just don't matter. MANAGING EDTIOR: Jason Kelly ever-pragmatic Steve Miller once sang, "Take 
So let's all just drop the Great Debate. Accept 
ASSOCIATE EDITOR: Mike Norbut 
the money and run." it. As Lionel Richie once said, it's Fiesta, forev­

er. CONTRIBUTORS: Tim Sherman, Andy Cabiness 
Not to be greedy, but you all know here at Notre Dame money talks and, pride walks. Come on and sing along. GRAPHIC DESIGN: Chris Mullins 
~ ~ 
•w• 
-~ '~ 
/lA· ,~ 


/#'1 lime ID call 'IJUt Pa tl • 27'1 ~ 1177 

Congratulations on Making it to the Fiesta Bo\NI! and Congratulations to Women's Soccer 7994 National Cha111pionship Runners-Up!  
'-apa Pre icts: otre ame 27 1o ora o 16  


r -'7J;'fij Nfue":Ait; -, r -Lat-:N/;M s;;ci:i -, r --0;f';r L";g;--,
PEN LATE FOR FINALS! 

I 1-1611 Extra Large I I (9:00p.m. until closing) I I O~ne Top;5 I I Two Toppings I I 1-1411 Large I I I
6
Wednesday, Dec 14-Monday, Dec.19: 

I s950 I I 1Topping Pizza I I Tw, 14" Large I I I I $59.5111 I I $One Topping I
11 :00 a.m.-2:00 a.m. 

I I I I I 11 ~~ I
·Ill

.... _______ .... ________.... _______ ....
I AlirliliDIIBI TIJI!PIIlfiS 1125 88Cft No/ valid with any other c011poo. I LAJidiliona/ Toppmgs !I5C each. Not valid With any other coupon. I LAJiditional TDPfiiiiUS !I5C Ba£h. NDI vs/Jd with any other coupon. I
Holiday Hours in effect from 12119 to 1114 

-------------_________________________________________________________J 
;ACCENT

Friday, December 9, 1994 page 19 
... 

7Jancin_g ofs!udenls brings J.he Xulcracher lo !tfe 

By LAURA SMITH with music by Peter Illyich Tchaikovsky endars everywhere so I can look ahead" Accent Writer and original choreography by Ivanov. said Schwoyer. For Horvath, sympathet-. -~·· The traditional Christmas ballet is about ic friends are very important. "My 
With finals quickly approaching, many a young girl, Clara, who receives a toy friends understand why I can't go out all students are cramming day and night for nutcracker from her Uncle Drosselmeyer. the time or talk on the phone for hours the upcoming tests. Imagine taking out In her dreams the nutcracker comes to and that helps" she said. several hours every day, right before life and takes Clara to the Land of Snow finals. and the Kingdom of Sweets. Christa For these women, dancing has 
Maryann Schwoyer, Angie Horvath, and Clous, Saint Mary's sophomore, is attend­become an important part of their lives, Eileen Sullivan are doing just that. It is a ing this weekend's performance because, one they would not give up in spite of the good thing they are doing something they "It's a cute story. I've seen parts, but I've long hours. love. never seen the whole thing." 
Schwoyer, Horvath, and Sullivan are tn this weekend's performances of The Sullivan has been dancing since she full company members of the Southold Nutcracker Ballet, Southold Dance was 5 and would like to continue after Dance Theater located in South Bend. Theater will be accompanied by the graduation. Schwoyer agrees with This weekend, Southold Dance Theater is South Bend Symphony Orchestra and Sullivan. She said, "I hope to keep in presenting The Nutcracker Ballet in guest artists Diana White and John shape after college and maybe audition O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. Summers. for some companies and be able to per 
The Nutcracker is a ballet in two acts Whit, a member of the New York City form." Ballet, will dance the roles of the 
ater con-
Sugar Plum Fairy and the Snow . The Southol~ Dance T3 companyPrincess. Summers is a member s1sts of 14 apprentices !message is "To of the American Ballet Theater members. The compJFy special way." and will dance the roles of the dance is to live in ­Snow Prince and the Cavalier. 
are enrolled in middle 
Schwoyer, a freshman Biology 
Mem~~n school, and college students major at Saint Mary's, is excited schoq}e adult in hi slate thirties. The 
about performing this weekend. 
a!J{pany will perform three concerts this 
"It's a whole new experience, 
year at O'Laughlin Auditorium. Theylearning a new ballet and heir 
include The Nutcracker, Family Concert, with a new company" she sa)[the and Spring Concert. Experidance will be 
Schwoyer read an artifast year performed at the Colfax Cultural Center. Ob~erve_r .a~JOut S?uthary's. She while VISitmg Satrow she liked it On Wednesday and Thursday, Southold took a cl~ss _tg to join. performed six abbreviated versions of and was IDJ." member of Southold The Nutcracker with three more sched­
Hor~i'(years, has already per­uled for Monday. Southold Dance for.red in the Nutcracker six Theater will perform The Nutcracker for 
The Saint Mary's freshman over 12,000 area school children. fondly remembers the perfor­The public performances are Friday, mances of her freshman year of December 9 at 7 p.m.; Saturday, high school when she was Clara. December 10 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m.; and "It was a little girls dream come Sunday, December 11 at 2 p.m. and 7 true" said Horvath. p.m. All performances are in O'Laughlin 
Auditorium on the Saint Mary's campus. 
From September to May, the Southold Dance Theater dancers Tickets can be purchased in the box practice about 14 hours a week office at O'Latighlin. Tickets for the and this week rehearsals for the Friday, Saturday, and Sunday evening Nutcracker are even longer, often performances and the Sunday matinee lasting from 5 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. are $20 for adults, $15 for students, and every day. How do these busy col­$10 for children. lege students keep up with every­thing? According to Sullivan, Saturday's matinee has recorded music Notre Dame junior and Biology instead of the live orchestra and is $15 major, "You can't waste time". for adults, $12 for students, and $8 for 
The Observer/ Cynthia Exconde 
"It's a daily thing. I keep cal-children.

Visions of Sugar Plumbs dance across the stage. 

I wonder which mail order houses God uses when He does His Christmas shopping? Does He buy His cards at Hallmark's, when He cares enough to send the very best? Does He window­shop at Tiffany's, convinced that diamonds are forever? Does He send many crosses to those for whom life has been a school of hard knocks, which He will exchange in eternity for a starry crown, up where the sun shines ever? Thomas Hardy wrote: "The President of the Immortals (in Aeschylean phrase) had ended his sport with Tess." Do you ever feel that the Deity needs watching? 
' 1 t strikes me as more 
than tasteless when breast implants are ad­vertised as an appropri­ate gift for a woman to receive from her signifi­cant-other; and ap­parently Roseanne has had herself artificially inseminated, as a Christmas gift to herself.' 
Christmas should be a move­able feast, which we can cele­brate every day in our hearts. Coming, as Eliot mentions in his "Journey of the Magi, "in the dead of winter, the very worst time of the year, we might won­der if we are celebrating Birth or Death. "There was a Birth certainly... this Birth was/Hard and bitter agony for us, like Death, our death." Did the Magi understand the three trees on 

.. 
·­
.... 
page 20 The Observer· LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, December 9, 1994 
Christmas: The Coney Island of the mind? 

Father Rob~rt Griffin 
iJellers Ia a iJonefj 9od 
the low sky and "the six hands at an open door dicing for pieces of silver" as a foreshad­owing of the Cross? 
Among the poems in Ferlinghetti's "A Coney Island of the Mind," is a piece called, "Christ Climbed Down." "Christ climbed down/from His bare Tree/this year/And ran away tq. where/no intrepid Bible sales­men/covered the territory/in two-tone cadillacs and where no Sears Roebuck creches/com­plete with plastic babe in manger/arrived by parcel posVthe babe by special deliv­ery/and where no televised Wise Men/praised the Lord Calvert Whiskey." 
Who can blame this Beat poet of the Fifties and Sixties for being sickened by the hypocrisy of the Christian tradition? Still, it seems easier to light one can­dle by believing in Christmas (as the churches do) than it does to surrender to the dark­ness. Thomas Hardy wrote of hearing an aged thrush in win­ter, flinging his soul upon a landscape of death. "So little cause for carolings/Of such ecstatic sound/Was written on terrestrial things/Afar or nigh around,/That I could think there trembled through! His happy good-night air/Some blessed Hope, where of he knew/And I was unaware." 
To be overtaken and aston­ished by Christmas as a December hope is as uplifting as the music of the thrush's caroling. 
At age 69, I no longer wish that I 'could be a child at Christmas, able to believe in magic. At my age, I wish for grace (which is God's magic) to believe that there are, for the sake of the children, hearts above the snow line. Ifl can be­lieve that at Christmas, God gave us His only-begotten Son as our brother in the flesh, then I can believe that history, with its endless sorrows and tragedies, has been unfolding as a love story centered on an all-caring Father Who writes straight with twisted lines. I don't suppose that a child who is starving ever wonders if he should forgive God for could leaving him abandoned. But when, as a grown up, you see the pinched faces, you could wonder if Divine Providence is irresponsible. When you re­member all the throwaway chil­dren, you could wonder if the hearts above the snowline are all cracked and chilled. 
Christmas is an important feast for children, and because there there are children ev­erywhere more wretched than the shorn lamb for whom the chilled wind has not been tern­pered. There are also athletes dying young, and the battle dead; sick mothers and out-of­work fathers, and senior citi­zens who need a light for the night to keep the fear of death away. 
"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God," begins the Gospel of John, up­dating the Creation story in Genesis. Can we believe that in addition to the sun, moon, and other planets, God created the Christmas star, to guide shep­herds and kings to the place of the Nativity? Can we believe that Bethlehem was the first of the Lord's stations on the way to Calvary, where God His face in the overhanging darkness? 
0 Lord, I do believe. Help Thou my unbelief. 
The confusing part of Christmas is the way the malls and the media try to make the 
' 1 f we didn't have an 
event like the birthday of God at the death of the year, we would have to invent one.' 
season meaningful. It strikes me as more than tasteless when breast implants are advertised as an appropriate gift for a woman to receive from her sig­nificant-other; and apparently Roseanne has had herself artifi­cially inseminated, as a Christmas gift to herself. But I do not believe that the sleazing of America would tempt Christ to climb down from His lonely, wooden tower, washing His hands of us. The closer America comes to losing its soul, the more Christmas needs to be retold as a love story every year. 

As a child imaginative. enough to believe in unicorns, I re­member how awesome it was to see the empty dishes on the dining room table at our house, which was proof that Santa Claus had eaten the lunch we had left out for him, while his sleigh and reindeer waited on the roof. This wholesome belief in the visitor from the North eating pumpkin pie, and smok­ing a Camel from the pack my father gave him, was the closest I ever came to pure magic. Now that I am old, I wouldn't know how to greet the Lord as a child an the morning of His Nativity, since the Christ I am acquainted with in the Eucharist is the stranger of Galilee. 
Still, Rudolph, the Little Drummer Boy, and the story of how the Grinch stole Christmas remind me of myself as a young Christian, when life was a child's garden of verses whose highlight was Tannenbaum and Toyland. Seeing the lights and hearing the carols, I thought I might have died and gone to heaven. 
If we didn't have an event like the birthday of God at the death of the year, we would have to invent one. The children don't know that yet. The reason I know it is because I believe in children whose guardian angels see God's face. 
Merry Christmas from Darby O'Gill III and me. We never said we didn't love you. 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
(ion the campus" 
hlnual Christmas Book Sale! 
c 0 
25o/o OFF 
All Gift ~qlendars -All Children's Books All h~tibound Trade Books All Profess1'---al Reference l3ooks 
.. ___________
r--------, 
'Ibis .... Cou.-,'1 Good Toward One Copy Of.·· 
Off ~ 'Natu r cL ~ n c 1n ies" 8 y Kryk
:s I ·~nd 
"Rudy's Rules_liv Ruettiger t 
.I
._--... .., I 
------ill. 
Tne Hammes NaiRE DAME BOOKSTORE Open l\1onday-Saturday 9 AM -5 PN'l 
Located in the heart of the beautiful Notre Dame Campus Santa and Mrs. Claus are coming to the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Tuesday, Dec. 13th, 2...4. 
Story Hour 4...4:30. 

Friday, December 9, 1994 page 21
The Observer • SPORTS 


Buffalo gives Moon bad memories 
By JIMMY GOLEN good football team have com­can get this one done." last place and their streak of would have 'gone down the Associated Press bined to give Moon an 0-5 Several scenarios would allow four consecutive AFC titles drain" if they'd lost to Chicago, record here, including a 1992 Minnesota (8-5) to clinch a might have been finished had Moon said. "But it would have ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. playoff game when the Bills playoff berth with a victory. they lost to Miami last week. been a lot tougher to get into 
If any of his teammates have came back from a 32-point The Bills (7-6) probably need to The win kept them alive, but a the playoffs." any questions about the Buffalo deficit to beat the Oilers in win each of their last three tendency to relax after other Both teams expect this game Bills, Vikings quarterback overtime, 41-38. games to sustain their quest for big victories has taught them to be decided in the middle, Warren Moon would be happy "I can describe the crowd to a sixth AFC East title in seven that momentum isn't going to where two newcomers on to share his experiences with everybody, but until they expe­years. help them win. Buffalo's offensive line will try them. rience it and see it, they still "Normally, I'd say it would," to protect Jim Kelly from 
Minnesota hasn't played the won't believe me. They're as "This is not a good time to be Bills center Kent Hull said. Minnesota's star tackles, John Bills since 1988. But Moon bad or as good as it gets, going in there, especially since "This year, it seems to be our Randle and Henry Thomas. hasn't been so lucky. whichever way you want to put they still have a breath of air downfall." "I can't sleep at night thinking 
From his days in the AFC with it," Moon said. left as far as the playoffs are The Vikings· are also coming about it," offensive lineman Houston, Moon has plenty of concerned," Moon said. off an important win, beating Mike Devlin said. "They're so not-so-fond memories of the "It's a total intimidation pack­"They're a team that has a lot Chicago in overtime to snap a quick, and so good. We've just four-time conference champi­age that they've been very suc­of pride. They've been champi­three-game losing streak and got to try and outhustle them." ons and their asylum of an cessful with for a number of ons for a long time, and they're move back into first place in the Devlin will help out right arena, Rich Stadium. The years.... But this is a new team, going to go down swinging." NFC Central. guard John Davis, who is nurs­weather, the noise and a pretty a new situation. And I think we The Bills would have been ,in "I don't know if the season ing a sore neck and knee. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
WANTED PARTIIME LAB TECH 4 Sale: Super Single H20 Bed, TOP 1 0 reasons to let Bridget go to Prayer to the Blessed Virgin Everyone be sur.e and wish WITH CG EXP. SEND RESUME 4 mo. old, $120. Papasan chair, London: never known to fail KEVIN BAUMERT 
NOTICES 
TO: white, $50. Comfortable 1 O)She HATES that girl! WORD! Oh Most beautiful flower of MI. a foot stompin', college partyin', 

BOX 4103 old couch, $40. Card table + 3 9)Chippie will be there & he means Carmel, fruitful vine, splendor of GRE-takin' 22nd birthday today. $$ FOR TEXTBOOKS SOUTH BEND IN 46634 folding chairs, $40. 2 end-tables, business! Heaven, Blessed Mother ot the Son 10-6m-sat pandora's books $15 ea., 25 both. Good stuff for 8)Th,ey'lllet her burp there of God, Immaculate Virgin, assist Cara and Joe get it under the table. NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat Need ride to Long Island tor apartment. Dec. grad, must sell. 7)Th,ere will be no SHABOOMS in me in my necessity. Fran gets in on the table. 233-2342 cool stuff cool store X-mas break, will pay expenses 289-7048; leave message London Oh Star of the Sea, help me and Scott and Renee get it by the table. 
call Sean @ 277-7131 6)Bu,ck woman awaits show me here you are my Mother. Frani just doesn't get it in ... SHENANIGANS Super Sharp 3 Bdrm. Approx 3/10 5)She missed her window with her Oh Holy Mary, Mother of God, THE DINING ROOM Christmas Concert Starting at $12/hr! The Princeton mi S. of N.D. @ 1018 N. Eddy. Why hubby! Queen of Heaven and Earth. I directed by Jen Andre SAT., DEC. 10 Review is looking for people to waste rent, build equity. Low $30's. 4)She'll be able to wear the black humbly beseech you from the bot­Today and Saturday 8pm 7:00P.M. Washington Hall teach our test preparation courses. Call for showing! 271-8100 outfit she loves to the pubs! tom of my heart to succor me in my Washington Hall Lab Theater FREE ADMISSION If you've earned a high score on the Steve Weldy -ERA Brokers Assoc. 3)They eat a lot of SOUP there necessity ..... (request) ..... There are Its free! tix avail. at Lafortune info. desk GMAT, MCATor GRE and would under computers none that can withstand your 
like to work 6-1 Ohrs in the evenings 1986 HYUNDA EXCEL FOR SALE 2)Table manners are important power. HEY TROJAN,SEX & WA! Keep the butter knives away from and on weekends, contact us at: GOOD STEREO $750 CALL ROD there -NO DONKEYS! Oh Mary, conceived without sin, f-off,i'm ok,i can say my abc's, big Frani Mclaughlin. Scott Paradine (800)865-7737. @ 2397924 1)Micros only FOOF in the U.S!! pray for us who have recourse to j(rocks trojan's world),coop,cut,hot knows she's out to cut off some We Love You BC! love, CLUB 317 thee .... (repeat) (repeat) tall anthropological balls! ln ... HOUSEMATE NEEDED $110/mo + For Sale: two stereo speakers. Holy Mary, I place this prayer for man,mattieburger ,GB/princess,julee 
THE DINING ROOM utils-own bdrm-5 blcks frm cmps $10 each. Call Liz x1277 Wishing KEVIN BAUMERT a wery your hands. (rep) (rep) ,fake,real,j-off,football,comm.ser­Today and Saturday at 8pm 289-3790 after 7pm auspicious birthday. : ) say three consec vice,bob,random hall messages Washington Hall-Lab Theatre DON'T PAY $90 for curtains @ days; publish; will be granted--and matt ed-,(no)moderation!eat at Its free!! I Castle Pt. I Park Jefferson! Buy Women ARE Smarter and the Friex golden boys!lafayette and the cap­I need many SEX KILLS's for them from me for $45 (do the math­kicked a-at Bridget's last night! GRATEFUL THANKS!! tain ... merry that's 112 price). Used 4 mos. 289-x-mas, GAMBLERS! ya'll are the
ILOST & FOUND I.-xM_A_s_x1-16-7----. 
7048 Did you know you have a cute Quality Copies, Quicklylll (not gonna happen)-sorry for too back? 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 many stories not during my allowed
I FQR RENT

LOST: This is ridiculous, but some-Large Ball of yarn for sale-Best LaFortune Student Center 10 min ...from Bamm-Bamm how my coat was switched with -Offer: Leah this one's for you -Phone 631-COPY another woman's coat at the Grace NEAR CAMPUS Call Anthony X3609 BellybuttonsNavelsBellybuttonsNav A quiz for those who know Chad H: formal last semester in April at HOMES FOR RENT elsBeillybuttonsNavelsBellybutton We're Open 1) Where did he spend his 21st B­Union Station. It was a black 95-96 SCHOOL YR AT&T WORD PROCESSOR Early, Late, & Weekends!!! day? 2) How long was he out? Ashley Scott long dress coat. If you 232 2595 4SALE Your overconfidence is your weak­000 THE COPY SHOP 000 3) What fact does this event con­think you may have the wrong coat, X1913 ness... LaFortune Student Center firm, that we've known since Oct. let me know. Liz x1277 Looking for a roommate in Castle Phone 631-COPY 31? 
Point.$ 280 +utilities, 272-1663 POWERBOOK 140. McDowell rocks -sorry I missed the A: 1) Coach's bathroom kissing the 

LOST! $1,600 or B/0. dinne1r last night. Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break porcelain god! 2) 2 hrs.; 1.5 in the If anyone has found a pair of per­Call Aude 631-0254. Sailing Cruise! Free brochure bathroom, refusing to come out! scription glasses, I could really use Your House for Spring semester is Hi Joy! You're a great coffee talker. 1(800)359-9808 3) Chad's a woman! 
them. They are golden framed and available now! Completely remod­Darting house for sale within walk­Thanks! love, kimmy have no nose pads. The perscrip­eled 3-4 bdrm 2 BLOCKS from ing distance of N D. New carpet & SOPHOMORE MALE SEEKS Wanted: Any NOT-shirts, esp tion is really, really strong. If found campus. Full basement , all new curtains, most appliances, two @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING FOR Budweiser & Drink Like a call Mike at 634-3597. appliances, and monitored security bdrms, one bath, living room, dining Mimi, SPRING SEMESTER. CALL SEAN Champion Call x2581 ASAP 
system included! Single rooms or room, kitchen and basement. Don't worry, miles and time won't 703-931-6864 OR PAGE ME AT 1­Did you find a silver cross pen in entire place available. $42,000. Good Neighborhood. keep us apart. I love you too much 800-706-3255. Smashing Pumpkins the Library? It has great sentimen­Call Mike@ 233-9609 today! Immediate occupancy. Call Linda for that to happen. I never thought The Freddy Jones Band tal value and I would really like it at 234-9669. my last semester here would be so Urge Overkill 
back. Call 634-2665. No questions great. Thanks for every1hing. The Notre Dame Glee Club Liz Phair asked. room for rent 2 blocks from the Thanks for being you. Chri:stmas Concert. VerucaSalt
TICKETS 

campus. on ivy rd,nice place,! need Love, Saturday, December 10 Just small Bands a few years ago FOUND: Fleece lined handmade the money desperately-. Ron 8:15pm, JACC Gate 10 Catch Chicago's Next!!! 
·­

mittens. Stop by 1 04 O'Shag. call272-2163 200$ a mo. CHEAP one-way flight from @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ admission $2 * all proceeds bene­DOVETAIL JOINT 
Rochester NY to South Bend on fiting the South Bend Before their '95 Label Debut FOUND -A brown leather bomber PLEASE we need a female January 15 -x2939 GOOD LUCK JAY HOSLER. Center for the Homeless • available now at the NO Bookstore jacket, LL Bean, size 42L. Call roommate, only $210/mo. From your friends at The Observer. Tickets available at the LaFortune Spak at 277-9280 if it's yours. 272-1538 Buy/sell FIESTA BOWL tickets. Information Desk, the Haggar 
WANTED 
Great seats available. We buy and Mia Pasquinelli, College Center Information Desk, NEED RIDE!!! 1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL­sell concerts, sports, & theatre tick­The time has come. The "big the .JACC Ticket Office, and the Anyone going anywhere within ABLE NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES ets. VISA, MIC, AMEX. Ticket joke" is up, it's time to let whole Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office. 2 1/2 hrs. of Lynchburg, VA for X­

272-6306 Exchange Inc. since 1981 800-800-world know! Back to Sacred Heart, Mas REWARDING SUMMER JOB -9811 hand in hand, but this time not as Come by Cactus Jack's and see Please help! Call Tina 284-5240. Orlando, FL-residential camp serv­Bed 'N Breakfast Registry -"friends", as man and wife. How what's brewing. Visit the Cantina ing developmentally disabled, hiring Private Homes FIESTA BOWL TICKETS does Mia Bettacchi sound? and shoot some pool, or watch the ··~­counselors 1 8+. Live & work on JPW, Graduation GOOD SEATS I love you, Chris game. Bring in todays Observer Y'KNOW, KEN WAS RIGHT. beautiful, lake front preserve. 219-291-7153 and receive $1.50 off any pur­PITISBURGH IS A GREAT TOWN. Salary plus room, board & extras. ***'**Fascinating Conversation***** chase. Expires today. IT IS WITHOUT A DOUBT THE 
PERSONAL

6/11-8/18. Call 407-889-8088 for WANTED: 5 students for beautifully If you give me a ride fromND to Love, peace, and tacos! TOP CITY IN THE COUNTRY AND application. remodeled home-Huge yard with Milwaukee on Saturday (12/17) IT EMBODIES THE PHRASE 
oversized deck, security system, Yeah Lewis 4W Afternoon or Sunday (12/18). anyone need a ride to long "HEAVEN ON EARTH." ONE DAY, NEED HELP: FEMALE N.D. washer, dryer. 5 blocks from main .............Call Pierre x1184********* island/nyc area tor break-call mike I HOPE TO ESCAPE THE GRADUATE OR LAW STUDENT circle. Available NOW for 2nd Congratulations MARK! 271 ..9471 CLUTCHES OF CINCINNATI AND 
TO HOUSE SIT WITH 17-YEAR semester. 277-0636 love, your london friends! MOVE MY FAMILY TO PITIS­OLD FEMALE. APPROX. 6 DAYS HAPPY BIRTHDAY SIMONE! 
BURGH. BUT UNTIL THEN, ALL I 

PER MONTH BEGINNING MID Sublet 2BR Townhouse at TURTLE SABOR LATINO COME WHIP US! 21212121212121212121 CAN DO IS DREAM ABOUT THAT JANUARY. CALL 219-277-5762 CREEK Next Semester! Come dance all night long! Love, Oh Canada! GREAT CITY OF CHAMPIONS. @Dayne X1945 Tonight 10 pm, Club 23 The girls of 2B The pride of Alberta is aboot 21. STEELERS 38, BENGALS 15. 
.......................................

SABOR LATINO Happy Birthday Erica, eh!!! LONG LIVE THE 'BURGH!!! •••••••••••pLEASE HELP!•••..•••.. NEED PARTY TO SUBLEASE 1 21212121212121212121 --MICHAEL PAUL KELLY, I desparately need a ride to NY. BEDROOM GARDEN APT., TUR­Some very hot women live in Lewis Kimo -Aloha, handsome! Just HERMIT KING '94. 
Orange/Westchester/Rockland -TLE CREEK, STARTING JAN. 1, 4W wante1d to wish you Merry Kissmas Happy practice 21st Beebs!!IJ Upper NJ -West Point area 1995. CALL 277-8756. and Happy New Year! I'll miss ya, Will pay. Leaving pref afternoon of Things you always wanted to know babel Forever yours, Men are dysfunctional. They can't Quick, run !I It's the Huddle!! 12/19 or later. Brian x1 058 Univ Village 2bdrm about PLS but were too afraid to Lehuanani cope. 12/14/94 -1/26/95 273-2923 ask ... 
He's a W-W-W-work!! 

What does "PLS" really stand for? KAY ZOLKOWSKI Come see Cara Conway wax and ATIENTION AMBITIOUS, SELF­1. Probably Law School May your day be merry and bright! oil Joe Monahan's wood in ... GoTeamBIO!I MOTIVATED Students. The FOR SALE 2. Pretentious Little Sh--s Love, Santa THE DINING ROOM ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is 
3. Please Let us Smoke directed by Jen Andre The train is leaving and we're the currently interviewing students for EA HOCKEY for IBM 4. Probably Loves Socrates Tc1day and Saturday at 8pm only two on it... .. 
Summer '95 management posi­1994 players with trades, etc ... Happy 21st Erica Peterson!! Washington Hall-Lab Theatre chugachuga .... WOO WOO I!! 
·····l~·················· 

tions. Earn money in excess of almost brand new, has all books Hey Kevin (our favorite Spackle Now you're legal in the U.S. too!! Its free!!! $10,000. Call now, 1-800-477-1001 and the registration form. -Alane, Jen, Cybelle 
Stud) here's your damn classified -Good luck on finals, my friends. no for a campus representative. best offer; call Tom at 4-1712 are you happy??!! I •••••••••••••••••••••••• Your faith in your friends is yours ... stressing allowed :) 
Friday, December 9, 1994
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

Salaam's 2,000 may be magic number 
By RICK WARNER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Like the 4-minute mile in track and a .300 batting aver­age in baseball, a 2,000-yard rushing season is a benchmark in college football. 
Prior to this year, only three Division I-A players had reached that total, and they all won the Heisman Trophy. Colorado tailback Rashaan Salaam is expected to complete the rare double on Saturday night. 
Salaam, who led the nation in rushing with 2,055 yards and scoring with 24 touchdowns, is favored to win the Heisrnan over Penn State teammates Kerry Collins and Ki-Jana Carter and Alcorn State quar­terback Steve McNair. 
Reports put Willingham at Stanford 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Tyrone Willingham, a Minnesota Vikings assistant coach and former running backs coach at Stanford, is go­ing back to the school as head coaching, the San Francisco Examiner reported today. 
Details of an agreement reached with athletic director Ted Leland will be finalized to­day and the formal announce­ment could come Friday, ac­cording to the newspaper. 
Leland refused to substantiate the report. 
"I cannot confirm or deny at this time that a candidate has accepted the position," he said in a statement issued to the press. 
Willingham, 40, met with Leland and advisory committee members Tuesday, then flew back to Minnesota. He would replace Bill Walsh, who re­signed last week. 
Willingham was considered 
one of three candidates along 
with Chicago Bears offensive 

-· 
coordinator Ron Turner and Stanford offensive coordinator Terry Shea. 
"Ty is an extremely demand­ing coach," said Minnesota 
The winner will be announced at the Downtown Athletic Club. 
"I think Salaam clinched it when he got 2,000 yards," said Lee Corso of ESPN, which will televise the ceremony. "It's a mark of excellence that fans can relate to." 
Marcus Allen of Southern Cal, Mike Rozier of Nebraska and Barry Sanders of Oklahoma State were the first three play­ers to gain 2,000 yards in a season. Allen won the Heisman in 1981, Rozier in 1983 and Sanders in 1988. 
Salaam went over the 2,000­yard mark in his final regular­season game, a 259-yard effort against Iowa State. It was his fourth game over 200 yards, including a career-high 317 against Texas. 
"Everyone else who's gained 2,000 yards has won the Heisman; I don't see why he should be any different," said Mark Blaudschun of the Boston Globe. "He not only gained 2,000 yards, but he did it against top competition." 
Six of Colorado's opponents are going to bowl games, in­cluding top-ranked Nebraska, No. 11 Kansas State and No. 20 Michigan. 
"To me, it's a no-brainer," said Ivan Maisel of Newsday. "When you get 2,000 yards against that kind of schedule, you should win the Heisman." 
Not everyone agrees. 
ESPN's Beano Cook voted for Collins, who nearly set an NCAA mark for passing effi­ciency. 
Collins' greatest moment was Penn State's 96-yard touch­down drive against Illinois. He completed all seven of his pass-
OU, Akron fields narrow 
Associated Press 
The searches for new head football coaches at Ohio University and the University of Akron have entered their final stages. 
Both schools have narrowed the list to four candidates. Ohio State assistant coach Lee Owens is a finalist at both schools. 
Akron is considering Owens, former Ohio State and current Florida assistant Ron Zook, North Carolina assistant Gerald Carr and Bob Junko, defensive coordinator last year at Akron under the fired Gerry Faust. 
Owens, a Bluffton College graduate, coached at Lancaster, Galion, Crestview, Waynesfield and Massillon Washington high schools before coming to Ohio State as an offensive tackles and tight ends coach in 1992. 
Zook, a graduate of Miami of Ohio, is the outside linebacker and special teams coach at Florida. He also coached at Orrville High School. Carr is a former Akron assistant who is the quarterbacks coach at North Carolina. Junko has spent the last seven years at Akron. 
In addition to Owens, Ohio U. is looking at South Carolina assistant John Eason, Air Force assistant Jim Grobe and James Madison head coach William "Rip" Scherer. 
HAPPY 20'H BIRTHDAY 
BRIAN! 
Lo~e, 
Mom, Dad, Tim I, Ke~in 


g,\iOUDC// 
~~'i Office Hours
: 
E 
Mondays & Thursdays 
~ 
es while leading the Lions to the winning score in the final minute. 
"Fifty years from now, the two things people will remember about this season are Colorado's Hail Mary pass against Michigan and Penn State's drive against Illinois," Cook said. 
Carter made a late push for the Heisman, rushing for 227 yards and five touchdowns in Penn State's regular-season fi­nale against Michigan State. He finished with fewer yards (1,539) and one less touchdown than Salaam, but Salaam had 100 more carries. Carter gained almost a yard more per carry, 7.8 to 6.9. 
"If he had carried as many times as Salaam, I think it's a safe bet he would have gained more yards," said John Tucker of The Union Leader in Manchester, N.H. "I think he was the best player on the best offense in the country." 
Because they shared the spot­light at Penn State, however, Carter and Collins probably will split much of the Eastern vote, preventing either from winning the Heisman. 

McNair's candidacy got an early boost from "Sports Illustrated," which put him on the cover with the caption, "Hand Him The Heisman." But despite his mind-boggling num­bers in I-AA, including total offense records for a season (5,799) and career (15,887), he still has skeptics who feel his stats were inflated by weak competition. 
"He had a great year, but he didn't do it against big-time op­ponents," Blaudschun said. "It's not his fault, but you just can't compare I-AA with I-A." 
Michael Wilbon of the Washington Post disagrees. 
"We're supposed to be voting on the best college football player in the country, and he (McNair) is the best I've seen," Wilbon said. "I don't buy into this lack of competition thing. A lot of those defensive backs he played against are going to be in the NFL." 
Salaam, Carter, Collins and McNair have been invited to the Heisman ceremony along with Alabama quarterback Jay Barker and Miami defensive tackle Warren Sapp. 
RETREAT 
DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 

An opportunity, In dialogue with ethers, to deepen 
your underetandlng of yourself, your values, your 
rolallonahlp with Christ, your axperlonce of Chrlallan 
community and aervlce. 

FEBRUARY 3-5, 1995 
December 5 -9 
December 9-4:00 p.m. 
3:00pI ml-5:00pI m
I
~ 
~ 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 
103 Hesburgh Library 
Student Government Office 
631-7800

..... 
~ 

IMI
'l•l•le,l 
COST: $25.00
2nd Floor LaFortune 

Friday, December 9, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 23 
• COI..LEGE BASKETBALl 
Walk-on Martin keys Ohio State 
By RUS1Y MILLER 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Kevin Martin had always hoped to play basketball for a major college. But a torn and scarred knee all but turned those hopes to cinders. 
Yet last spring, after playing a pivotal role as Westerville North won the big-school state high school championship, it occurred to Martin that maybe he could walk on at the colos­sus a few miles from home. Maybe he might even get in a few games. 
Now Martin, 2 1/2 years after being a limp-on with his high 
Happy 21st 
Mu~Jh~uu~ 
We love you! 
Mom, Dad, & Colleen 


Follow the Irish to the Fiesta Bowl and warm up in sunny Scottsdale. 
Marriott"s Mountain Shadows and Scottsdale Marriott Suites are offering 
MARRIOTTS________ 
Mountain Shadows 
RESORT AND GOLF CLUB 
5641 E. Lincoln Dr.. Scottsdale. AZ 85253 
(602) 948-7111 or 1-800-835-6205 
Rates rcqmrc full dcposrt and rooms arc subtcrl 
Next to Martin's 
r---o~Mect:-m---, 
Two Topping Piua 
: 1 $699 
IGet up to (our more pizzas for $5 each. IIValid on Cai'I)'<>Ut or delivery ...-...
1 
L _E!ff:!!}~~!-~.J 
school team, is a starter as a 
walk-on at Ohio State. 
It even astounds him. 
"I was hoping coming in here that I could contribute to the team, maybe play some min­utes," says the 6-foot-5, 190­pound freshman. "But with ev­erything that's gone on, I've had the opportunity to play a lot more than a lot of people ex­pected me to. 
"Then I got the opportunity to start a game my freshman year," Martin said, hesitating for a second while he laughed at the thought. "Whieh is noth­ing that I expected." 
Opportunity is a key word in Martin's voeabulary. He used it 12 times during a 10-minute eonversation. 
Opportunity came knocking when Ohio State graduated three players, t.hree others were kicked off the team for disciplinary reasons and two others transferred. Players, even ones still coming back from a damaged knee, were at 
Fiesta Bowl Warm Up rates spanning 
December 28th through January 3rd. Join the Irish for their day in the sun. One call gets it done. 
SCOTTSDALE
.,\\arnott 
SUITES 
(602) 945-1550 or 1-800-835-6205 
10•availabilill'. Some restrictions apply. 
~~{.a
:Out 
273-9944 
18157 S.R. 23 
r ---an:Med:-m---, r -On:La-:QeOn:ToPPi;' -,
1 Specialty Piua 1 1 Piua and 2-Liler of Pepsi 
!~1?99 ! L~oot~:.,9 
I
IValid on Corry-out or delivery ~C-I IValid on Carry-out or delivery. ~C-I 
L _E!!~!_f~~!-~.J L _E!!'f:!!}~!f!!-~.J 
a premium. And Martin saw his opening. 
Martin is at Ohio State and not on scholarship at another Division I program because of a knee injury. H is because of another knee injury, this one suffered by Ohio State's leading scorer and rebounder, Rick Yudt, that Martin is starting. 
Yudt, averaging 19 points and 6 rebounds a game, noticed some pain in his left knee after Ohio State's season-opening 78­6 7 loss to Ohio University in the Preseason National Invitation Tournament. He played two more games on it and didn't miss a practice. But last week he underwent tests that showed he had a slight tear of the liga­ments that would require arthroscopic surgery. 
Yudt, a transfer from Austin Peay who was seeing his first action for Ohio State, is ex­pected to miss at least two more games. Yudt would prefer to be playing, but he said Martin and the current Buckeyes are a perfect match. 
"We're going to play hard and if you play hard, you're always going to be in the game," Yudt said. "That's not to say we're going to pull 'em all out, but I'm convinced we're going to be a good team before all is said and done." -Of Martin, he said, "He's ca­pable. He plays hard. I'm sure he's going to play well." 
Martin had nine points, two rebounds and three assists in Ohio State's 91-71 loss at Penn Saturday. Playing against a team that made it to the NCAA tournament last year was a world away from the Division III schools that had sought his services last spring. 
Martin tore the anterior cru­ciate ligament in his left knee during a camp at Otterbein College after his sophomore season at Westerville North. He was bitterly disappointed be­eause his hopes of playing at the Division I were put on hold, if not eliminated. 
Gillespie scores 
high marks at UTEP 
By EDUARDO MONTES 
Associated Press 
EL PASO, Texas 
Antoine Gillespie is not a man of modest goals. Playing in his final season with Texas-El Paso, the Miners' scoring wiz­ard is going for a place in the record books. 
''I've never had a chance to play in the NCAA or win the WAC tournament," said Gillespie, who led the Miners in scoring last season. "Those are my goals and dreams this year." 
If that's what Gillespie has set his sights on, then that might also be in UTEP's future. Because as Gillespie goes, so go the Miners. The 6-3 guard is the driving force behind the Miners' offense, boasting a 20.3-point average and a quickness that helps him slip away from defenders and free himself up for open jump shots. 

Gillespie again is expected to be a major factor in the Miners' success as he pursues his goals of championship trophies and making it to the NBA. 
The man known simply as "Toine" to fans also has the added impetus of chasing Tim Hardaway's scoring record. 
Hardaway, the Miners' all­time leading sc-orer, amassed 1,586 points in his four years at UTEP and is now a standout with the Golden State Warriors. 
In his three-year career, Gillespie has accumulated 1,169 points. 
UTEP coach Don Haskins said Gillespie is a better player than he was last year. That's im­pressive, considering Gillespie already was a formidable scor­er. 
Gillespie, an All-WAC selec­tion last year, is only the sec­ond player in UTEP history to score more than 1,000 points in the first two years. 
He scored in double figures in every game last season, finish­ing with a 23.7 point average, and was the league's second­leading scorer. He racked up at least 20 points in 16 games and went over 20 five times. 
His single game best is 45 
points scored in an 104-103 
overtime loss to Hawaii on Feb. 
17. He also turned in a 37-point effort to lead the Miners to a victory over Virginia Commonwealth in the Sun Carnival Classic championship game a year ago. 
Gillespie hasn't shown any signs of slackening his pace, looking impressive in exhibition games and turning in 26 points in the Miners' season opener against Bellhaven College and 25 in a loss to No. 22 New Mexico State. 
He had only 11 as UTEP beat the Aggies 77-68 in the re­match. But it was also a game where Gillespie began to show he is maturing into a team player, leaving behind some of his showboating. 

r 
r 
' 
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 9, 1994 
I 
• COUEGE ATHLETICS

I 
·' 
I' 
I ' Cooper getting comfortable at Ohio State 
' 
I 
I By RUSTY MILLER 
I Associated Press 
, 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

' 
Ohio State's John Cooper, sur­' rounded by the artifacts of 33
I 
' 
I years as a college football coach, leaned back in the leather executive chair behind
I' 
the desk in his office at the

I 
Woody Hayes Athletic Center. I He looked relaxed. He should I be. I How long has it been since 
I Cooper hasn't been confronted by a controversy? How long has 
' 
it been since his critics have

I
' 
had to bite their tongues? 

~ Three weeks ago, he picked up his first Ohio State win over rival Michigan. Last week he 
Rutgers a darkhorse in final four 
By PAUL NOWELL Associated Press 
DAVIDSON, N.C. 
Hamisi Amani-Dove, who has been nursing a heel injury all season, has shined for Rutgers in the postseason to help the Scarlet Knights make it into the NCAA men's soccer Final Four. 
One could argue the Scarlet Knights have been dragging their heels all year. 
Until now. 
Entering the season ranked in the top five in the nation, they stumbled into the playoffs at 8­9-3. They're now on a six-game tear, thanks in part to Amani­Dove's three goals and three assists. 
"A lot of people might say we don't deserve to be here," Amani-Dove said Thursday af­ter Rutgers finished its final practice before taking on three-time defending national champion Virginia in Friday's semifinals. "We earned it. 
"We may be the bottom of the barrel but I think we're as good as anyone here," said Amani­Dove, a junior from Columbia, Md. 
Unranked Rutgers (14-9-3) faces the fifth-ranked Cavaliers (20-3-1) in the first semifinal at 2 p.m. Friday at Davidson College's Richardson Field. That will be followed by a 4:30 
p.m. game pitting No. 2 Indiana (22-2) vs. No. 7 UCLA (18-4). 
"Virginia has set itself apart from other programs in the country," said Hutgers coach Bob Reasso. "But we're used to playing against good competi­tion. These guys aren't in awe of anybody." 
Heasso refuses to call the Scarlet Knights a surprise finalist. 
"We don't worry about those kinds of things," he said. "We just look at our next task and that is Virginia. We are in their 
· way to the title and they are in our way." 
The Cavaliers have proven to be quite an obstacle in recent years.They are in the Final Four for the fourth straight year, the first team to do so since San Francisco did it in 

J 1975-78. Virginia has beaten Hutgers all four times they have met, including a 3-0 victo­ry in the 1989 NCAA semifi­agreed in principle to a new five-year contract that could give him the third-longest tenure in Ohio State's 105 years of football. 
And they said it wouldn't last. 
"That's two of the big things on the list," Cooper said this week of the Michigan victory and the new contract. "But I never have worried about that stuff. I keep telling you guys that all the time. I'm going to come to the office and work. There's always going to be something to do, whether you're worried about that or you're looking at film or work­ing on recruiting." 
Ever since he took over at 
Ohio State in 1988 after three years at Arizona State and eight years as head coach at Tulsa, Cooper has been assailed for a variety of reasons, from the commercials he did to the games he didn't win (his first four bowls, his first six meet­ings with Michigan). 
No longer does he hawk gro­ceries on TV. Last year he led the Buckeyes past Brigham Young in the Holiday Bowl. Then came the 22-6 victory over Michigan Nov. 19. 
That victory capped a 9-3 sea­son for a team and maybe a coach that few visualized as any better than fourth or fifth in the Big Ten. They finished second to No.2 Penn State. And they did it with three impres­sive victories after Penn State hung a 63-14 black eye on them Oct. 29. 
"The last three games, after the Penn State situation, for our kids to come back and play like they did ... there's no question I'm very proud of them," Cooper said. 
Cooper said he wasn't worried about a new contract. He felt 27 victories over the last three years spoke volumes about him and his program. 
When initial negotiations with Ohio State Athletics Director Andy Geiger yielded little in the days immediately after the Michigan game, Cooper was 
-

contacted by officials from LSU. He talked to them about their vacant position. • 
"We had a few restless nights around here in my family," Cooper said. 
Soon after, Geiger anted up a five-year contract that, even though it isn't signed, report­edly contains rollover-type in­centives and a raise in pay. 
In return, Cooper reaffirmed his devotion to Ohio State. 
"When you get a new contract like I have, people have shown confidence in you," Cooper said. "And you want to do ev­erything you can within the framework of NCAA rules to prove to those people that they made the right decision." 

lARGE SELECTION LOW PRICES~ 



. nats.. •1' .• t o1 ,., •• ~., •• , ....~......~........................................................................................~ 
Friday, December 9, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
• COLLEGE ATHLETICS 
Jackson rails against hiring practices 
By MOLLY HALL 
Associated Press 
DENVER 

Civil rights leader Jesse Jackson said Thursday the University of Colorado's deci­sion to promote a white assis­tant football coach over a more qualified black typifies hiring practices at schools nationwide. 
"The case is fairly clear that the pattern is from Miami to Colorado and points beyond," he said. 
Jackson, speaking during a conference call, called the prac­tice "white male affirmative action." 
He contrasted the high num­ber. of black athletes in NCAA football and basketball in 

Ct-IOPSTJCKS 
CHINESE FAST FOOD We Deliver to your dorm! Mon-Thurs lla.m.-9p.m. Fri. & Sat. lla.m. -1 Op.m. 
East Location:

$6 minimum 
525 N. Eddy St.

$1 service charge for 
South Bend, INorders under $15 

232-1177 

Division I with the fact that only 
6.2 percent of athletic adminis­trators are black. 
He hopes criticism of Colorado by his civil rights organization, the Rainbow Coalition, will highlight the disparity. 
"If we holler it from a 'Mile High,' maybe they can hear it in all the valleys,'' Jackson said. 
Jackson is protesting the ap­pointment of Rick Neuheisel, who is white, over assistant head coach Bob Simmons, who is black, to replace Bill McCartney as head coach. They say Simmons was excluded from serious contention be­cause of his ethnic background. 
"What makes a 33-year-old white (man} with less experi­ence, less time in the arena, fewer stripes on his shoulder, more qualified than Bob Simmons," Jackson said. "We're not saying appoint someone with less experience just because he's black. We're saying do not exclude us from the pool." 

Colorado president Judith Albino has defended the deci­sion and the university's efforts toward diversity. She will meet with Colorado Rainbow Coalition coordinator Chet Whey Friday in Denver to dis­cuss the issue. 
"When the ministers meet with the president, they will make our case for reconsidera­tion," Jackson said, adding the coalition is considering several actions of protest, including talking to potential recruits, picketing bowl games and con­tacting the Justice Department. 
"This is a state institution and 
Happy 21st Birthday, 
Clh~cdl~ 
Whatever happened to the "age of innocence?" 
Mom, Dad, Brian, Tim, and the Woodman 
they are obligated to follow the law," Jackson said. 
.CAA executive director Cedric Dempsey has agreed to meet with Jackson during next month's NCAA Convention in San Diego. 
The Rainbow Coalition for Fairness in Athletics has begun to rate NCAA Division I institu­tions for several factors, includ­ing the number of black ath­letes. graduation rates for blacks and the number of blacks in coaching and admin­istrative positions. 
"This fairness index will give our children and community a basis on which to judge how individual institutions are treat­ing us," Jackson said. 
The Coalition compiled data showing that 47 percent of Colorado's football players are black and 8 percent of the non­playing positions, including coaching, are held by blacks. 
"On the field, where the stan­dards are objective, we do well," Jackson said. "But off the field, where the rules are subjective and behind closed doors, we don't do so well." 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
The Notre Dame Club of North Jersey 
Young Alumni committee Proudly Presents: 
1995 IFU.JIDg [JID n~ N~w Y~u lBeo>wRliJIDg JPmty 

Where:  Hanover Lanes  
When:  Thursday, January 5, 1995, 9:00 p.m. -midnight  
What:  Bowling and revelry  
Who:  Current ND/SMC students and Alums (bring a friend if you like)  
How Much:  S5 gets you 2 games (shoes included) S2 for each game thereafter  
R.S.V.P.:  Mike Lezynsky '91 @ (201) 829-8472 or  
The North Jersey Irish Hotline@ (201) 543-5887  

Come see your friends, arrange for that ride back to campus, visit with your family and ring in the new year. Complete restaurant and bar available for those who would like to satiate their appetite and quench their thirst. Come join us for the start to a great New Year with good old friends. 
Hanover urnes 
East Hanover, NJ (201) 887-1400 

From East, NJ 
•take 
Rt. BOW to Rt. 280E 

•exit 
onto Eisenhower Pkwy. S (toward Livingston) 

•follow 
to livingston Circle (go 1/4 around circle) 

•to 
Rt. lOW follow for .... 2 miles 

•take 
U-turn jughandle after Ramada onto Rt. lOE 

•Hanover 
Lanes is on your right 


From Morristown, South or North NJ 
•take 
Rt. 287 towards 1V1orristown toRt. lOE (exit 39A) 

•take 
Rt. 1OE -5 miles ~ 

•Hanover 
Lanes is on your right 



Remember the North Jersey Club Irish BTotline for Updates & Information (201) 543-5887 

-------------~---------­
-~---­

.....--------~------~ 
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 9, 1994 

Krumrie announces retirement 


BE APART OF IT! 
NOTRE DAME 
vs. 
ALASKA-FAIRBANKS 
with ND/SMC
studentiD! 

By JOHN NOLAN 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
Tim Krumrie, a lOth-round draft choice from Wisconsin in 1983 who became a fixture on the Cincinnati Bengals' defen­sive line, said Thursday that he will retire at the end of the sea­son. 
Krumrie, 34, said he has achieved all his goals, including playing in the Super Bowl and the Pro Bowl, getting 1,000 ca­reer tackles and not missing a game since the seventh grade. 
"The time is right," he told a news conference at Spinney Field, the Bengals' practice field. "I played 12 years. I did it all. It's just time to move on." 
Krumrie said he would not announce his future plans until after the Bengals' three re­maining games. 
Bengals general manager Mike Brown said he has not of­fered Krumrie anything yet. 
"We're going to wait until af­ter the season ends," Brown said. "I respect him a great deal. He represents everything I think a football player should. I think he would make a fine coach." 
Brown recalled that after the Bengals drafted Krumrie as a 6-foot-2, 260-pound rookie, the team still had doubts he would make it in the NFL and didn't invite him to mini-camp. Krumrie showed up on his own. That impressed Brown's father, Bengals founder Paul Brown, who had done the same thing when he was a player . 
"He (Krumrie) proved to be not only a good player," Mike Brown said. "He's one of the very best players the Bengals 
ever had." Coach Dave Shula praised Krumrie's work ethic. 
"He was here early, he stayed late," Shula said. "Tim Krumrie won't be replaced. We'll have a guy who will take his place on the roster, but he'll never be replaced." 
Krumrie spent 11 seasons as an undisputed starter at defen­sive tackle. He has been split­ting playing time this season with 25-year-old teammate Bowl loss to the San Francisco 49ers. He had a steel rod in­serted in the leg and continued his NFL career unabated, play­ing in the Bengals' 1989 season opener against Chicago. 

He plans to have the rod re­moved after his retirement. 
He was a two-time Pro Bowl selection before his Super Bowl injury. 
He often said he motivated himself by recalling the per­ceived slight of not being draft­ed until the lOth round. He also said he wanted to finish his career with the Bengals, and he passed up opportunities to go to other teams as a free agent. 
In 1992, Krumrie wound up leading the Bengals in tackles for the fifth time. Last year, second-year player Mike Frier was chosen to split time with Krumrie, but Krumrie kept him on the bench. The Bengals released Frier in October. 
Entering 1994, Krumrie had started 160 of the last 161 games for Cincinnati, excluding the 1987 players' strike. 
Krumrie has seen the Bengals' fortunes decline since the Super Bowl year. The team had a franchise-worst record of 3-13 in 1991, Sam Wyche's last as head coach. In two full seasons under coach Dave Shula, the Bengals went 5-11 and 3-13, and are 2-11 this season. 
Recycle the Observer 
.. 

99 rent lunch special at Really Poppln 11 a.m.-2 p.m.-•r-oo..a. 
Sleeping Beauty Puppet Show 1 & 3 p.m. Magic Show 2 p.m. Have your picture taken with Santa for only S6 
Keith Rucker in a Bengals' strategy to keep Krumrie fresh. Krumrie, a fierce competitor known for pacing the sidelines and getting into training camp fights with teammates, grudg­ingly accepted the arrange­ment. 
Krumrie broke his left leg during the first quarter of the Bengals' January 1989 Super 
Happy 21st Birthday Jeff Wigfield! 
You're a real man now! 
The Testosterone shots are working! 
From the Moontower Boys 
• 
FREE COUPONS FOR FREE BLIMPIE SUBS FOR EVERYONE! 

• 
BRING ABLANK SHIRT and HAVE THE ND HOCKEY LOGO PUT ON IT FREE! 


-
• PLUS MORE PRIZES and GIVEAWAYS! 
--~ ~--~-~-~~-­

------------.... 
Friday, December 9, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 27 
ATTENTION STUDENTS 
WHO WILL BE LOOKING FOR PLACES TO STUDY DURING FINALS WEEK 
THE FOLLOWING BUILDINGS WILL BE OPEN FOR STUDYING DURING THESE DATES AND TIMES 

NORMAL NORMAL 2 4 2 4 2 4 2 4 2 4 2 4 2 4 
HOURS HOURS HOURS HOURS HOURS HOURS HOURS HOURS HOURS 
NORMAL 
2 4 2 4 2 4 2 4 2 4 2 4 2 4 
HOURS HOURS HOURS HOURS HOURS HOURS HOURS HOURS 
6:30PM 6:30PM 8:00AM 9:30PM 9:30PM 9:30PM ro ro TO TO ro ro:: 4:OOAM 4:OOAM 4:OOAM 4:OOAM 4:OOAM ALL NITE  ALL DAY 9:30PM ro ro 4:OOAM 4:OOAM  ___ _  
6:00PM 6:00PM 8:00AM 9:30PM 9:30lPM 9:30PM TO TO TO TO TO TO 4: 0 0 AM 4: 0 0 AM 4: 0 0 AM 4: 0 0 AM 4: 0 0 AM ALL NITE  ALL DAY 9:30PM TO TO 4: 0 0 AM 4: 0 0 AM  _______  
24 24 24 24------­ 24 24  

HOURS HOURS HOURS HOURS HOURS HOURS 

•SPECIFIC CLASSROOM AVAILA:BILITY WILL BE POSTED IN THESE BUILDINGS. PLEASE CHECK 'THERE FOR DATES AND TIMES. 
SECURITY NOTICE: 
-EVERYONEISENCOURAGEDTOSTUDY WITH A FRIEND DURING LATE HOURS. -PERSONAL BELONGINGS AND SCHOOL MATERIALS SHOULD NOT BE LEFT UNATTENDED. 

THIS AD AND THESE STUDY SPACJES HAVE BEEN SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT, BUILDING SERVICES, CAMPUS SECURITY, AND STUDENT AFFAIRS OFFICE. 
..... 

-··-···-· ·~---···· ................................ ¥ ........... ~-······ ............................ ~ .................................. -..... ­

page 28 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 9, 1994 
•NFL 
Ex-Bear finds home in Green Bay 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
Wide receiver Anthony Morgan isn't the Deion Sanders type. 
So don't expect him to do any gloating if he gets his chance Sunday when Green Bay (6-7) faces his former team, the resurgent Chicago Bears (8-5), who are out to bury the Packers' plans for the playoffs. 
The Packers are counting on Morgan to help them complete their first undefeated season at Lambeau Field since 1962. 
Green Bay has won eight straight games at home and Chicago hasn't won on the road

• 
in December since 1987. 
The Packers claimed Morgan off waivers in November 1993 after Bears coach Dave Wannstedt gave up on him fol­lowing two-plus injury-riddled seasons. 
Morgan has become the Packers' No. 3 receiver behind Sterling Sharpe and Robert Brooks, who is nursing a ham­string pull and could be limited Sunday. 
Morgan lets his actions speak for him, however. 
"I'm kind of tired of talking about Chicago," he said. "They made a decision. I'm happy here. They're happy there." 
Morgan preferred to prepare quietly for the Bears, surprising co-leaders in the NFC Central, where the Packers now sit in fourth place after a disastrous three-game stretch of losses at Buffalo, Dallas and Detroit despite 13 touchdown passes by Brett Favre. 
Since becoming the third receiver when ·Ron Lewis retired just before the Packers' 33-6 demolishing of Chicago on Halloween night, Morgan has 14 receptions for 214 yards 
(15.3 average) and three touch­downs in the last six games. 
At Detroit last week, Morgan had his first 100-yard receiving day, grabbing six catches for 103 yards, including touch­downs 47 and 26 yards. 
Morgan was a fifth-round pick from Tennessee in 1991 and appeared headed to a promis­ing career in Chicago as a receiver and returner under then-coach Mike Ditka. He started twice as a rookie and averaged 16.2 yards on 13 catches. In his second year, he started four times and averaged 
23.1 yards on 14 receptions, but missed the first four games while recovering from knee surgery. 
Slated to start under Wannstedt in 1993, Morgan was plagued by a concussion delivered by Phoenix safety Chuck Cecil, then by a ham­string pull. Tired of waiting for him to get healthy, the Bears finally waived Morgan. 
"Anthony did a great job in our offseason program. He was going to be a starter for us in training camp. Things just didn't work out," Wannstedt said. 
"It was just one of those deci­sions where he was not going to be the starter and he wasn't doing much work on special teams at the time, so we decid­ed to make a change," Wannstedt said. "I have no problem with Anthony Morgan. He did everything we asked when he was here. 
''I'm glad that he's having 
Playoff bye on line for Cowboys 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 
The Cleveland-Dallas games were big back in the 1960s when the teams were Eastern Conference rivals. Saturday's meeting has that same impor­tant feel. 
The Cowboys (11-2), who are already in the playoffs, can clinch a first round NFC bye in the Dec. 31-Jan. 1 games with a victory over the Browns. 
Troy Aikman, who has been nursing a sprained left knee lig­ament the last two weeks while Jason Garrett and Rodney Peete won games, will start for the Cowboys. Vinny Testaverde will start for the Browns. 
Cleveland (9-4) trails Pittsburgh by a game in the AFC Central. The Browns have to travel to Pittsburgh next week before finishing the sea­son at home against Seattle. They can all but clinch a wild­card with a win against Dallas. 
If the Browns win, all they would need would be a Denver loss or tie to the Los Angeles Haiders, a Kansas City loss or tie with Miami, or a Buffalo loss or tie with Minnesota. 
"We're playing them at their place in a short week," Cleveland coach Bill Belichick said. "It will be tough. But I think this team has really re­sponded to adverse conditions. After we've lost games, we've bounced back." 
Cleveland hasn't been in the NFL playoffs since 1989. 
"I would like to see what it's like in Cleveland during the month of January," wide re­ceiver Michael Jackson said. 
The Browns hold a 16-10 ad­
. ®
•a•e c..are I~a1r 
271-7674 
1811 South BendAve. 



vantage over the Cowboys. The last time the teams met was in 1991 when the Cowboys spoiled Belichick's first NFL game as coach with a 26-14 victory. Cleveland last defeated Dallas in 1988 by taking a 24-21 deci­sion. 
Dallas running back Emmitt Smith took note of Cleveland's tough defense, which leads the NFL in least points allowed. 
1  4:00-5:00  
2  4:10-5:10  
3  5:20-6:20  
4  5:20-6:20  
5*  12:15-12:45  
6  4:00-5:00  
7  4:10-5:10  
8  5:20-6:20  
9  5:20-6:20  
10*  12:15-12:45  
11  4:00-5:00  
12  5:20-6:20  
13  9:00-10:00  
14  4:00-5:00  
15  4:00-5:00  
16  5:20-6:20  
17  9:00-10:00  
18  8:00-9:00  
19  9:10-10:10  

some success." 
So are the Packers, of course. 
Morgan, at 6-foot-1 and 195 pounds, has outstanding speed for his size, and has allowed Favre to fulfill his preseason pledge to spread the ball around. 
Morgan's development took time, because his knee still was healing and he was busy learn­ing the offense, Holmgren said. 
"When you bring in somebody new· it takes some time," Holmgren said. "I've said this before and I don't want to make more of it than it is, but we ask our receivers to do a lot more than other teams ask their receivers to do. 
"There's a little subtlety involved as far as pattern adjustment, reading defenses, different types of routes they run. Blocking, we ask our guys to block a lot more than some teams." 

Another Packer who hasn't had much to say about his for­mer team is defensive tackle Steve McMichael, who signed with Green Bay when Wannstedt cut him last summer after 13 years in Chicago. McMichael did address the matchup in training camp, say­ing that facing the Bears was nothing special. 
"When you're a purist, it doesn't matter where you line up," he said. "It's all football, no matter where you are. It's just another game. I can't get any more fired up to play any football game than I already do." 
The Bears are 4-point under­dogs even though quarterback Steve Wal~h is 7-1 as a starter. Since Week 4, when Walsh became the starter, the Bears have led the NFL in average time of possession (32:35). They ranked last in the first three weeks. 

• 
Daily Delivery to Notre Dame and South Bend Don't forget to pick up flowers for this weekend's dance! 1404 N Ironwood Dr South Bend, IN 46635 (219) 288-3995 
M~F 7:30~7 
Sat 8~6 
Edison
'"' .... ® 
Sun 10~5 
"All Major Credit \.ards Accepted" 
CHARGE BY PHONE 

Step  Gym 1  M/W  $23  
Hi Intensity  Gym 2  M/W  $18  
Step  Gym 1  M/W  $23  
lntro to Aerobics  Gym 2  M/W  $18  
Beg. Step  Gym 1  TfTh  $23  
Step  Gym 1  TfTh  $23  
Hi Intensity  Gym 2  TfTh  $18  
Combo Aerobics  Gym 1  TfTh  $18  
Body Toning  Gym 2  TfTh  $18  
ROCKNE  CLASSES  
Lo Impact  219  M/W/F  $20  
Step  301  M/W  $23  
Step  301  M/W  $23  
Step  301  M/W  $23  
Step  301  F  $12  
Step  301  TfTh  $23  
Step  301  TfTh  $23  
Combo Aerobics  301  TfTh  $18  
Step  301  Su  $12  
Step  301  Su  $12  
ROLFS  CLASSES  

20 12:15-12:45 Water Aerobics Pool M/W/F $15 21 6:45-7:45 Water Aerobics Pool TfTh $15 
All classes are co-ed. All classes are p.m. Registration begins January 17, 
7:30 a.m., in the hallway just south of the RecSports office. Classes will begin January 23. The Step class price increase will help off-set the cost of our new steps and further improve the quality of our classes. Classes with a • will meet DYP exercise requirements, continue through Spring Break and end May 12, 1995. Call RecSports at 631-6100 with any further questions. Have a great, physically active semester! 
Professional Hair Care Services 


-------~-----------~~---~~-----~-.....1 
, 
Friday, December 9, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 29 1 
1 
•NFL 
• 
~ 
Raiders take streak, history to Denver 
ByJOHN NADEL 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

The Los Angeles Raiders play their favorite patsy on Sunday at perhaps the optimum time. 
Then again, maybe the law of averages will catch up with them. 
The Raiders face the Denver Broncos, a team they've beaten 10 times in 11 games since Art Shell became head coach fol­lowing the fourth game of the 1989 season. 
Both~ teams have 7-6 records, having overcome horrendous starts to move into playoff con­tention. 
The Raiders have a seven­game winning streak against 
Denver at the Los Angeles Coliseum, site of Sunday's game, and the status of Broncos quarterback John Elway is uncertain. Elway strained a muscle behind his left knee during Denver's 20-17 overtime victory over Kansas City last Sunday. 
"It may be a game-day deci­sion as far as whether he plays said. "That's the mindset I have to have." 
Elway said he won't be pres­sured to play if he's not healthy. 
"I look at it as a 16-game sea­son," he said. "It's just a mat­ter of if I can play and be close to myself. Hugh is not a second­or third-year guy. He's played a lot of football in this league." 
their last four. 
The teams are tied for second place in the AFC West with Kansas City. San Diego sits atop the division with a 9-4 record and needs just one win in its fi­nal three games to clinch the title. 
So it's likely the Raiders, Broncos and Chiefs are seeking a wild-card playoff berth. 
IRIS I IIMI'l\:e't' II 
JRlEJLliVJE THE TJRliUMJPH~ ~ ~ November 13, 1993... #1 vs. #2... 
The Gan1e of the Century... cap­
tured in a full-color poster depict­
ing the Irish defense shutting down 
the Seminoles. Irisl1 In1pact II post­
ers now a\railable at the Bookstore, 
the LaFortune Info Desk, and the 
South Bend Center for the Home­
less. Only $10 each. Makes a great 
holiday gift! 

A_ll proceeds benefit the South Bend Cen~er for the Homeless 
Advertisement space donated by Notre Dame Student Government 
........ _............................... _ .... .. 
FAMOUS 
Since 1977 
15 Years Qf Service Award 
DINE IN, CARRY OUT, OR DELIVERY 

SZE-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AMERICAN DISHES 
"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
•Private 
Dining Booths 

•Fresh 
Ingredients 

•No 
Mass Production 

•Healthy 
Family Style Dining 

•Vegetarian 
Menu 


For Reservations & Carry Out Call: 

272-6702 
For Delivery Call 272-2-EAT 6329 University Commons 
(Across from University Park Mall) South Bend. IN 46635 Mm·Tlus 11 AIA-9 PM Frilay 11 AII·IO PM
e 
VISA 
Saturday 4PII-10 Pll 
,_ .
1
I . . .... 

, Notre Dame 31 · Florida State 24 

or not," Broncos coach Wade Elway, who's listed as ques­The Broncos hope to become Phillips said. "Certainly, we'd tionable, has missed only six the second team in NFL history like to have him. I know John games because of injury since to make the playoffs after an 0­wants to play, but we'll have to joining the Broncos in 1983. 4 start. San Diego did so two see medically how he is." Two of those six were in Los years ago, winning 11 of its fi­
If Elway can't go, veteran Angeles against the Raiders, nal 12 games to earn the AFC backup Hugh Millen, who guid­including in 1992, when West title. ed the Broncos to their game­Tommy Maddox filled in and winning field goal at Kansas the Raiders won 24-0. The Raiders continued their City, will be the starter. The Raiders have won five of recent domination of the 
"John's assuming he's going their last seven games after Broncos with a 48-16 victory at 
.-'!__ 
to play and it's my job to as­starting 2-4. The Broncos have Mile High Stadium on Sept. 18, sume that I'm playing," Millen won six of seven, including a game Shell called his team's 
just think: 
She'll be 27 on the 7Jthf!f 
H.B., C! 
from: 
M and D, E, P&M, & the maj! 
November 13, 1993 
best of the season. 
"They just beat the heck out of us last time," Phillips said. "They scored at will and stuffed us every time we tried to move the ball. They've got to be look­ing forward to playing us again, because they probably think they're a whole lot better than we are. 
"But we're a different team and, hopefully, a better team than we were at that time." 
Shell has a simple explanation for his. team's domination of the Broncos; the Raiders beat Denver three times last year, including a 42-24 victory in an AFC wild-card playoff game. 


-----~--~-----------. 
page 30 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, December 9, 1994 
•NFL 

Chargers need it all against 49ers 
~ 
i ~ 
_,._ 
' 
f 
~ 
' 
r 
r 
' 
~ 
f r 
r 
' 
r ~ 
r r I 
! ~ -· ' 
-.. 
-
~ 
By BERNIE WILSON 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
The current state of the San Francisco 49ers and San Diego Chargers can be summed up rather concisely by the coaches: 
-"It feels good to have a loaded gun," said George Seifert, coach of Steve Young, Jerry Rice, Deion Sanders and Co. 
-"We've just lost a little bit of our oomph," said Bobby Ross. whose Chargers once were the best team in the league at 6-0, but have since failed to win consecutive games. 
The Chargers (9-4) will need all their oomph, and probably more, in Sunday's home game against San Francisco. The 49ers (11-2) have won eight straight and come into Jack Murphy Stadium as 7 1/2-point favorites. 
Since losing 40-8 to Philadelphia on Oct. 2, the 49ers have been relentless in pursuing home field advantage in the NFC. They hold the tiebreaking edge based on their 21-14 victory over the Dallas Cowboys on Nov. 13, and be­came the NFL's first division winner by clinching the NFC West two weeks ago. 
•
DROOMBALL LEAGUE: HecSports will be offering a broomball league. It will be a co-ree campus event. Deadline will be January 19th. CHALLENGE U AEROBICS: will have its last class day this Tuesday, December 13. 
Their winning streak includes three victories of more than 40 points, including last Sunday's 50-14 blowout of Atlanta. And their defense, loaded with free agents such as former Chargers inside linebacker Gary Plummer, has come together. 
"That (Philadelphia) game kind of shook everyone up and kind of humiliated us," said Young, the NFL's top-rated passer who has thrown 20 touchdown passes and only two interceptions during the win­ning streak. "Certainly from that point on we turned around and said, 'Well, let's quit walk­ing on eggshells. Everyone's a 49er, let's just go play like it.' 
"I think that humiliation made a big difference in the way we played football. We've played much more intense since then, and really a lot more error-free since then." 
Several weeks ago, 49ers­Chargers looked it might be a 
Perfonn with the Orchestra! "Sing Along" Messiah 
Saturday, December 17, 1994 8:00p.m. flrst Presbyterian Church 333 W. Colfax Student Price $4.00 
Call 232-6343 
Tickets available at door 

Where your fall'iiY can have 
Fun, Fuh, Fun! 
Fun Pa11 
LDDit 11 what Dne petiDn ge11••• 
• 2 Rounds of Miniature Golf 
•1Gameof~ 
• 
A slice of Putters Fresh-made Pizza and a Small Drink 

• 
1 Ride on the ~a CWwcn • 1 0 Game tokens 



When purchased is a $14.95 value Your Everyday Low Price 
only $1 0·,~,~.. 
Town & CountryHours Shopping Center 
Mon-Thurs 10-1 0 2500 Miracle Lane 
Fri-Sat 10-11 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 Sunday 1-10 (219)254-0100 
Super Bowl preview. 
"It could still be, there's no doubt about that," Young said. "Either one of us could still be there. 
"We've got a lot to work for this week," he added. "We're looking at bye weeks, we're looking at home-field advan­tage, we're looking at all kinds of things that are very impor­tant to us, and you know that the Chargers have a lot riding this week. So we're looking at a big ballgame." 
The Chargers still need one win to clinch the AFC West title. They could have won it Monday night, but lost at home to the Los Angeles Raiders 24-17. 
"I would go as far as saying if there were a game that would make a big change in our sea­son, since probably against New Orleans, this is it," said defensive tackle Shawn Lee, a key link in trying to contain the scrambling Young. "Monday night, that was a must win, and we didn't win. So that makes this game much more of a must-win game." 
Although the Chargers won 36-22 at New Orleans on Oct. 16 to go 6-0, that's when their breakdowns began, mostly on offense. 
"After a period of time, it caught up to us," Lee said. "It's fixable, if everyone decides that we'd like to go not only to the playoffs, but further than the playoffs, and put the rest of the season behind us." 

Each loss has brought a dif­ferent breakdown -dropped passes, poor pass protection, poor run blocking. Injuries are mounting on the offensive line, and quarterback Stan Humphries bruised his right thumb in the first half Monday, requiring a cortisone shot. 
Defenses are bottling up Natrone Means, whose 1,142 yards leave him 84 short of breaking the club single-season rushing record of 1,225. And the Chargers can't hit the big pass play. 
J1ii~~5).
You finally mooe it! 21 at last! 
Look out world! Here she comes ... 
Love, Mom & Dad, David(ND '93), Molly, Katie & Annie 
COOPERS & LYBRAND 
KNOWS EVERYONE IS 
TRYING TO GET 
NOTRE DAME GRADUATES TO WORK FOR THEM SO WE FIGURED WE'D OFFER YOU WHAT YOU REALLY WANT. 

A  LIFE.  
All work and no play. No way. At Coopers &  ~  want it to. You'll find the right fit at Coopers  
Lybrand, we believe in a balance between  ~If  & Lybrand. You'll be part of an organization  

your personal and professional life. Here, people that works with over 400 companies in the work together as a team, in an environment that's Fortune 1000 every day. While you'll work hard, 
open and friendly. Yet individual achievement is not only encouraged but 
Coopers 
rewarded. So your career can 
&Lybrand 
move as far and as fast as you 

there'll be time for all sorts of things, from volun­teering to mountain climbing. 
coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 

Heard enough? Now, go on 
a protessoonal serv1ces t~rm 
out and play. 


Friday, December 9, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 31 
~@!B AttD &f@®~U\IV @J®W~mU\I[M]~U\JV ARE OFFERittG FREE STRESS RELIEF FOR THOSE STODYittG FOR FlttALS. 

Barney Play-Do Finger Paints A Vihrating Chair And of Course ••• 
Or1agh'1 HammDck 
..,_
PLUS TONS OF OTHER STUFF 


AND IT'S ALL FREE 
(THERE'S EVEN A MASSEUSE). 

IF YOU ARE WONDERING HOW WE HAVE THE FREE TIME TO PUT ON SUCH AN EVENT, IT'S BECAUSE 
-
THE UNIVERSITY CANCELLED OUR FINALS SINCE WE WORK SO HARD ALL YEAR LONG. 
... 

-~------­
~---------------­
---------------~----~-­

page 32 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 9, 1994 
•NFL 

Patriots, Colts face must-win situation 
By HOWARD ULMAN Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. 
Just because New England beat Indianapolis only two weeks ago, the Patriots don't expect an easy rematch 
Sunday. After all, the final mar­gin was a narrow 12-10. 
"That game in Indianapolis was hard," Patriots coach Bill Parcells said. "It was like Chinese arithmetic." 
And that's almost as hard as NFL arithmetic. The playoff possibilities are numerous and complex. With only three games left, 12 of the 14 AFC teams remain in the race for postsea­son berths. But for the Colts (6­
7) and Patriots (7-6), the task is simple: win Sunday. 
"It's a single-game elimina­tion, as far as we're con­cerned," Indianapolis coach Ted Marchibroda said. "This is the first one. It's one we have to take, and I think the uphill Miami and Buffalo. 
The Colts haven't won or lost two straight games in their last 
10. They need to change that after rebounding from the loss to New England by beating Seattle 31-19 last Sunday. 
The Patriots' position is a little better heading into their home finale, although they need to inch past the other four AFC teams with 7-6 records. Two of them, Buffalo and the Los Angeles Raiders, upset division leaders last week. 
"We're not getting a lot of help around us from other teams, so the only thing we can do is take care of our busi­ness," Patriots running back Leroy Thompson said. 
The Patriots have shifted from a pass-oriented attack to a more balanced offense. In last Sunday's 24-13 win over the New York Jets, New England had more runs than passes for only the second time this sea­son. 
wise, that I have to get hit in the face with a skunk four times before I smell it," he said. "I know that if we let this thing get going in a certain direction, then probably the skunk's going to come back." 
After losing four in a row, the Patriots have won four straight in pursuit of their first playoff berth in eight years. 
New England expects Marshall Faulk to play a bigger role than in their frrst meeting, when he ran 11 times for 48 yards, his second-lowest output of the season. Against Seattle he had his second-highest rush­ing total. 129 yards. 
The Colts held the ball for only 21 minutes. 55 seconds and had just 48 offensive plays against the Patriots. 
"Sometimes you never really totally get into your game plan, because you don't have the ball enough," Marchibroda said in explaining Faulk's lack of work. Faulk was hospitalized with a 
down lateral to Faulk was caught by New England's Harlon Barnett with 2:41 left, preserving the win. 
''I'm always looking to make a big play," Majkowski said. "It was a desperate situation right there and it didn't turn out the way I wanted, but I don't regret the effort." 
Parcells doesn't plan to try to rattle Majkowski more than normal early in the game to remind him of that play. 
"He's experienced enough," Parcells said. "I think he can deal with it fairly well." 
Even though both teams are familiar with each other be­cause of that recent exposure, the Patriots didn't exactly run away with the game. They reached the Colts' 25-yard line six times and managed just four field goals. 
"A play here, a play there could have meant the game for either team," Barnett said. "We can't look at it as, hey, we beat it," said Majkowski. "It makes this week's game that much more important." 

Against Seattle, the Colts had five takeaways and five sacks. They had just one takeaway and two sacks against the Patriots. New England has com­mitted just five turnovers in the last four games. 
The need to avoid them means Drew Bledsoe probably pass as much as he did earlier in the season. 
"As the weather gets worse and as our defense continues to play better, the role of our passing game changes a little bit," he said. "We have to be careful to take a shot here and there but, for the most part, eliminate mistakes." 
That's even more important for the Colts. They have an ex­cellent chance to move up in the playoff picture by finishing with two home games against division rivals. 
climb could be extremely Parcells knows he has to mod­virus on Thursday, but them, and be overconfident." tough." ify his plan for every game, Marchibroda expected him to "We know they're preparing Take a Break 
He knows a loss probably even against a team he beat be ready for New England. The to come in here with a different would render meaningless the just two weeks ago, in order to last time the Colts had the ball game plan," Thompson said. from Exams! remaining two games, both at minimize mistakes. against the Patriots, quar­"With us winning this last home against AFC East rivals "I don't think, experience-terback Don Majkowski's third-weekend, we're right back in 

.. ~·.>.·~ ..... J.....~. ~-~ .. -.......~·:.. •... ~... ·!... ·~~~~--·L·~.,./· .... •.. :~·:'_' .. :~:.~t: ..... = 
Saturday, <December 10t~ ill t~e La<Fcrtu11e Ballrccm 

"""­
Come see your favonte holiday 
classics. 
9:00pm Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer 
10:00pm National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation 
11:45 pm The Year Without aSanta Clause 
12:30 pm Scrooged 2:15am Frosty the Snowman 
2:45 am The Grinch Who Stole Christmas Popcorn and soda will be served.

-
Everything is absolutely FREE.

.... 
DEPAUL 
UNIVERSITY 


vs. NOTRE DAME 
FIGHTING IRISH 
Saturday, December 10 2:00p.m. 
See Chicago's new 
II/I UNITED (fiJ CENTER at its most affordable price. 
$30•$25•$20 $15•$12 For Tickets Call TICKETMASTER 312-559-1212 
r ifusiiii)EMON-SrEoo, 1/2 OFF REGULAR ADULT ONE-WAY 
present this coupon to your tick­et agent when purchasing in South Bend. 

For further information call (312) 362 8648 
Only valid 12/10/')4 on lralns dPparllnA: Suuth llf'nd al 7:40, 1):40 and I 1:40 a.m. Not valid em any othc•r trains or with any othPr 
L ---d_!:u::! '!!.!r:::u:.n---.J 

the end of the year," Pettit said. setter Nikki Stricker-who en­"A lot of times you'll see fresh­tered that season with signifi­man head south at about this cant experience. She was re­point because they just aren't placed by redshirt junior used to making a grind for this Christy Johnson, who Pettit has long. But your experienced said could play with any setter players understand that this is in the nation. a different time of year. and Friday, Nebraska will be play­you just have to keep· getting ing a Colorado team it has better." faced three times this season 
The Huskers are gifted ball and Johnson is a key. She is handlers, play solid defense matched against Colorado and have a reliable big gun in sophomore setter Tracy Seiler. Big Eight player of the year who has struggled at times this Allison Weston at middle block­season. er. 
"Our team plays off her en­"I think the more important ergy," Pettit said. "I think every the match, the more it magni­player on the team is playing fies the setter's importance," significantly better than they Pettit said. "When there's more did last year. A lot of it is in lit­pressure, more noise and faster tle ways you might not see sta­play, the inexperienced player tistically." or the player that does not play 
Pettit said the 1993 Husker at a high level is not apt to team had only one player -make good decisions." 
FIESTA BOWL PACKAGE 
$169.00 
•2 NIGHTS/2 PERSONS HOTEL ACCOMODATIONS 
•FREE AIRPORT SHUTILE AND GAME TRANSPORTATION ~ •GAME DAY BREAKFAST BUFFET I~ 
~FOR RIESERVATIONS CALL~ (602) 273-1211 RODEWAY INN-AIRPORT WEST 
$26.00 EACH ADDITIONAL PERSON/MAX 4 PERSONS PER ROOM NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER OFFER 

HELP! 
FINALS ARE AIM:>ST HERE 
ALLEGRO 
SANIWIOi & COFFEE SHOP 
ANNOUNCES: 
CAPPUCCINO only 99 cents 

PROMOTION ENDS WHEN FINALS ARE OVER) 
ALlEGRO IS LCCATED IN THE PA.SEMEl\!I' OF THE IA EDRTUNE STUDENI' CENIER 


~ 


---~----------------, 
page 34 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 9, 1994 
• HOCKEY 

Irish skaters need CCHA wins 'badly' 
By MICHAEL DAY Sports Writer 
The opportunity is here for the taking. 
With a pair of struggling teams heading into town this weekend in Alaska-Fairbanks and Miami of Ohio, it could be the perfect chance for the NotrP Dame hockey team to turn around a disappointing season. 
"We know we need to win these two games badly," said goaltender Wade Salzman. "We've been struggling, but if we can get a couple of wins here, it should pick us up for the rest of the season." 
After falling to Michigan 11-2 last weekend, the Irish's record has fallen to 3-11 overall, in­cluding a 1-9 mark in CCHA play. llowever, the squad 
Hoops 
continued from page 36 
Kurowski, Ryan Hoover, Pat Garrity and Lamarr Justice have done by committee what Monty Williams had to do all by himself last season. 
The difference has been dramatic. 
"It's healthy that we have this kind of balance," MacLeod said. "It's a good pattern to see develop." 
An even better pattern has been the victories that have re­sulted from the newfound scor­ing distribution. 
Another victory Saturday would catapult the Irish into their 12-day layoff on a high note. But regardless of the out­come, Saturday's game offers the scenario for another Notre Dame-DePaul classic. 
"It's Saturday afternoon basketball in Chicago," MacLeod said. "It's perfect." 
Merry Christmas and Happy New Year from the staff of 
The Observer. 
ter Tim Harberts. Ling is cur­rently sixth in the CCHA in scoring with 20 points, and Harberts leads the team in goals with seven. 
With freshman goaltender Matt Eisler out with a injured hamstring, Salzman will again earn the starting nod at goal­tender. Despite struggling in last Saturday's route at Michigan, the junior goalie is confident that he and his team­mates will be able to turn things around this weekend. 

"It's been very frustrating," said Salzman. "But we're working hard and giving it all we got. We know what we got to do-it's just a matter of going out and doing it." 
hopes to snap their six-game losing streak tonight against a struggling 4-9-1 Alaska­Fairbanks team. 
For the Irish to win for the first time since November 11, they must receive more consis­tent play out of their defense. The unit currently ranks last in the CCHA, giving up an average of 5.90 goals per game. 
"We need better play from our defense," said coach Ric Schafer. 
Alaska-Fairbanks enters the game averaging just 3.17 goals per game. As bad as the Nanooks have been on offense, they have been worse on the defensive end. UAF gives up 
4.50 goals per game, so Notre Dame should be able to take advantage of struggling goal­tenders Larry Moberg and Brian Fish. 
"We just need to get back to the basics and start doing the things that we do well," said Jamie Ling. "We have the talent to beat anybody we play." 
Saturday's game against Miami at the Joyce Fieldhouse should pose a tougher chal­lenge. Coming off two wins over the Nanooks last weekend, the Redskins currently stand at 7-7 overall, including a 5-4 mark in CCHA competition. 
Offensively, Miami is led by the outstanding trio of junior center Kevyn Adams, left wing Marc Boxer, and center Andrew Miller. Each rank among the CCHA leaders in goals and assists. 
The Irish will attempt to counter the Redskin offense with Ling and sophomore cen-
The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications 
Cartoonist Needed 
Cartoonist needed to draw a comic strip 2-3 times a week for 1995 spring semester. Those interested contact Garrett Gray at 634-1771. Job detail and pay rate will be discussed! 
Coming Soon To The ND Area: 
~l]lffi 
W®mtr 
rnmrn~ 

UNLIMITED TANNING SALON 
1st 200 members to call and sign up get this ridiculously low price: 
$99oo For A Year! Call 654-8528 
Monday thru Saturday Sam-Midnight 
•~ Sunday 8am-8pm ­.. tf~, .• 
Two bot deals. 


Happy 21st 
CUJO! 


At last ... Live life legally! 
Love: Mom, Dad, & Kelly 
What Are You Doing For Break? Prepare an act for TROOP NOTRE DAME's 



7P.M. •TONIGHT vs. ALASKA-FAIRBANKS 
7P.M. •TOMORROW vs. MIAMI (OH) 

Bring a blank shirt and have the ND Hockey logo put on it free! 



FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
~ 
1 

l 1 
Friday, December 9, 1994 The Observer· TODAY page 35 
I 

l ~E.~t-l, \.E\S I=KE II, 1>. LOT r::Jt CI-\R\<;T~~<; \.001 IS fl.\ S\~~ \-\£~, l>.t-\1) 1\\£ 
CCl~"i>T\\U\ION Sr..'iS ~() 1'\:'i&:)\-.1 
S~P<I.L ~£ l)t.?RI'It.C> or PRal'£1<1'{ WIT'MOIJT 00£ PROCtSS or Lt>.W . 
\ 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
YOUR TARGET MARKET I~ MORE SPECIFICALLY, 
THAI DOG:S WATCI-\ING 






CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Detectives' 60 Trees with dark, discoveries: fragrant wood 

1 Venezuelan Abbr.
lake or seaport 38 Delusion 
10 Lightheaded DOWN ones? 40Wear 
1 Year in Louis 14 Pastime for two 43 This, senor 
VII's reign 16 Andean tuber 44 Reclined 2 Rubber center 17Tender 45 Vishnu 3 Gambrel, for one 18 Middling mark incarnation 4 Overhead 19 Giant Brave 49 Sisters of 5 Intaglio's 
Charity founder counterpart

21 Drinking spree 6 Male: Prefix 
23 "Excuse me ..." so Chronological division 
7 Give-whirl 24 Complacent a Science fiction

51 Noblewoman

25 Fishermen 
writer Bova 53 River to Solway

21 Caps 9 Azog or Bolg of
Firth

33Some H.S. Middle-earth students 54 The Southern 10 Green-plumed 34 Up-and-tropical bird
Crown 

comers, 59 Old means of 11 Warnings, once perhaps punishment 
12 Place of one's own 

13 Scorn with "at" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 14 Crow; . 

• 
15Screen­(old TV company) 
20 U.S. scientific satellite of the 60's 
22 Dentures 23 Singer Jarreau and others 26 Robert the Bruce's tongue 
29 More robust 30 Hoarder's goal 31 Conservative 
start 
US GOLF AGAIN. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad! 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
t. ~ 
~ 
J
, 
32 Cause of·a blowup 35 Relate incorrectly 36 Formation of bone 37 Disciplines, in a way 38 Capture 39 Lilliputian 40 Smart one 41 Old European card game 42 Pageant prop 
46 "This is-!" (crimebuster's cry) 
47 Volcano opening 48 Goose genus 49 Icy pinnacle 52 R. & B. singer James 
Make checks payable: and mail:
fJ:Iie Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, 71ie 06server is a vital source of information on people and events in 
55 Where Its. are educated 
56 When doubled, a Gauguin book 
51' Massachusetts cape 
sa Three-toed sloths 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone:: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
D Enclosed is $35 for one semester.
the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found 
Naine _____________________________________
71ie 06server an indispensible link to the two cam­
Address____________________________
puses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive 'I1ie 06serverin your 
City _________State___Zip____----,_ 
home. 
-· •• ~ •••• '! ••• ~ .... ',." " ..... ,.. ' ...... ' ''' '.''' ''''. t'. '. ''' ••••••• '' ••• '' 't •••••••• t.' .............................. ' .... . 

~------------------------------------------------------------~ 
.. 

.. 
I 
I I 
l -­
, 
! 
.... 
... 
. 
SPORTS 

page 36 Friday, December 9, 1994 
ND-DePaul a meaningful match 
By JASON KELLY Associate Spons Editor 
This rivalary reaches across generations, cluttering the past of both programs with memo­ries and melodrama. 
It has lost some of its na­tional appeal in recent years as both teams have struggled to revive lost traditions. But Notre Dame-DePaul still matters, if only to the particpating schools and their most ardent follow­ers. 
The teams will add another chapter to their age-old men's basketball rivalry in a brand new building Saturday after­noon. Tipoff is set for 3 p.m. (South Bend time) at Chicago's United Center. 
No. 5 Penn State a familiar foe 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 
The 12th-ranked Notre Dame volley­ball team will be looking to go from being sweet to elite tonight as they take on fifth-ranked Penn State in the sweet sixteen round of the NCAA volleyball championship. 
The Irish, now 33-3, have had little success against the Nittany Lions. In seven confrontations, Penn State has posted a 6-1 record against the Irish, including three victories which have knocked them out of the NCAA tourna­ment. The Lions have erased Irish hopes of a national championship the last two years. in the first round of the 1992 tournament and in the "Elite 8" round of last year's championship. 
The Irish arrive in the Regionals after a first-round bye and an exhausting come-from-behind 9-15, 15-11. 15-13, 15-13 victory over Pitt last Sunday. Penn State defeated Illinois and Ball State to arrive Lincoln, Nebraska, the sight of this weekend's Mideast Regionals. 
"We're thrilled to have the opportunity to keep on playing," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown after the Pitt vic­tory. 
"We have high expectations and we are looking forward to meeting them." 
The Irish are prepared for tonight's match, mentally and physically. Senior co-captain Christy Peters and sopho­more Kristina have returned from in­'uries, so the Irish look to have a full roster. With one of the keys to the team's success being its depth, a full roster is definitely in favor of the Irish. 
The Irish also hope to have the mental edge in the match, mostly because the team, especially the upperclassmen, are looking for revenge for Penn State's defeats of the Irish the last two years. 
see IRISH/ page 33 
"This rivalry has existed over many years," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "It's tradi­tional. That's what makes it so great." 
He indicated that this will be one of three series that defi­nitely will be maintained when the Irish begin Big East play next season. Indiana and UCLA will be the others. 
But neither team has time to get too gooey-eyed with nostal­gia. 
Notre Dame (3-1) sees only an opportunity to continue its early-season success. DePaul, on the other hand, hopes to do an abrupt about-face and im­prove on its 1-2 start. These are more immediate concerns. 
"Anytime a team plays Georgetown as well as DePaul did (in a 74-68 loss) it shows what kind of team they have," MacLeod said. "Our biggest concern is DePaul's ability to pound the offensive boards." 
Opponents have had 62 of­fensive rebounds against Notre Dame already this season, while the Irish have grabbed just 36. 
But if one of DePaul's quar­tet of potent offensive weapons starts to find the range, offen­sive rebounding may not be an issue. 
Tom Kleinschmidt has tor­mented the Irish in recent sea­sons and, despite nursing a sore ankle that limited him to just eight points in a loss to Bradley, MacLeod expects him to be his old Irish-infuriating self. 

"Tom is really a tremendous player. We've had little success aginst him in the last three years," MacLeod said. "He was on crutches that day and still played against Bradley, that shows what kind of competitor he is." 
With Brandon Cole, Bryant Bowden and Will Macon also scoring in double-figures, DePaul has become multi-di­mensional. 
But Notre Dame has a few extra weapons of its own this season. A different player has led the Irish in scoring in each of their first four games. Keith 
see HOOP/ page 34 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
With two wins this weekend, Jenny Birkner and the Irish would advance to the final four. Last year Notre Dame qualified for the quarterfinals before being eliminated by Penn State. 
i 994 National Collegiate Division I Women's Volleyball Championship 
Stanford (28-1) 
Nebraska (30-0) Arizona St. (1 8-9) 
Colorado (23-7)
West Mideast 
·:. otre Dame (33-3) USC(21·7) 
Arizona (16-9) Penn St. (29-3) 
UCLA(29-3) Pacific (23-6) 
Ohio St. (27·2) Duke (24-5)
South
Northwest 
Hawaii (25-4) long Beach St. (26-5) 
IRISH HOCKEY 
The struggling Notre Dame hockey team hopes to rebound this weekend against Alaska-Anchorage and Miami of Ohio . See Page 34 
w 
'! Florida (28-5) Houston (25-6) The Qbserver!Tom Roland 

Mideast regional may be toughest 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 

Although the Notre Dame volleyball team was fortunate enough to draw a first-round bye in the NCAA Volleyball Championship, luck has made a turn in the wrong direction, as the Irish head into the Mideast Regionals in Lincoln, Nebraska this weekend. 
The first obstacle in the way of the Irish is Penn State, who has knocked the Irish out of the NCAA tournament the last two years. If the Irish defeat the Nittany Lions, they will most likely face Nebraska. who at 30-0 is the only unde­feated team right now in women's col­lege volleybalL 
In other regional action, the winner o the Mideast Regional will take on the winner of the West RegionaL That team may be no. 2 Stanford who plays 15th­ranked Arizona State Friday night, and then would play the winner of 10th­ranked Southern Cal and 16th-ranked Arizona to head to the Final Four in Austin, Texas. 
In the South Regional, it will be No. 3 UCLA versus No. 21 Duke, and No. 14 Florida versus No. 17 Houston in the Sweet Sixteen round. Barring a major upset, UCLA shoud emerge from the South RegionaL 
The West Regional looks be the most exciting, or at least the most competi­tive, of the four regionals. Fourth­ranked Ohio State takes on 11th-ranked Pacific, and it will be No. 6 versus No. 7 when Hawaii plays Long Beach State. Ohio State's ranking and record would obviously make them the favorite, but the caliber of volleyball on the west coast gives either Hawaii, Long Beach State, or Pacific good credibility and po­tential for the trip to Au·stin. The win­ner of the West plays the winner of the South in the Final Four. 


of note... 
See Sports Extra for all the Notre Dame vs. Colorado Fiesta Bowl details. 





