

Thursday, February 24, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 97 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'~ 
SMC announces reform of governance structure 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's College and the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross announced the signing of the College's new bylaws that will reform the gov­ernance structure at a press conference yesterday. 
The new structure will estab­lish Saint Mary's as a corpora­tion separate from the Congre­gation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and will reform the board structure from the current two­tiered Board of Regents to a one-tiered Board of Trustees, according to statements read by College President William Hickey and Congregation President Sister Catherine O'Brien. 
New board members will be elected at the April Board of Regents meeting and will as­sume responsibility for govern­ing the college in June. 
Discussions began three years ago between the College and the Congregation, resulting in a new plan that allows the Board's laity to be involved in all discussions affecting the College. 
The current Board of Regents consists of eight General Coun­cil Members that are all mem­bers of the Congregation and are responsible for making all major decisions for St. Mary's. The Board of Directors consists of 22 members, one-third of which are Sisters of the Holy Cross. All current members of the Board are chosen by the General Council. 
The new Board of Trustees 
see GOVERNANCE I page 4 

Future careers 
Cavanaugh senior Ryan Miller and Flanner senior Gregory Ripple talk to a representative from Congressman Tim Roemer's office yesterday during the Government Career Fair in the Center for Continuing Education. 



Callahan discusses Lenten suffering Panelists share experiences 
By AMY CODRON District of Columbia; images of Returning from a global to a News Writer our Mother Earth flooded, pol­personal level, she reflected on 

involving culture shock 
luted, stripped; and finally, in­the face that to us is the most 

People can experience the escapably, that face I see each familiar, the face we see in the By ZOE MARIN Returning to the US was also mystery of the cross through morning in the mirror, my own mirror every day. News Writer a shock, Bellis said. It meant the human suffering in the face." "Through the combination of readjusting to the food, people, faces of their personal, profes­choice and chance that defines The culture shock experi­and environment all over again. sional and environmental "Loss is such a universal hu­each one of our lives, there is a enced when returning to the world, according to Saint man experience, so often defin­sign of the Cross," she noted. United States was just as great Amstrong had a different ex­Mary's alumna Sr. Rachel ing experience in human pain," Callahan explained that in the as the initial shock of arriving perience. He worked with ado­
Callahan. she explained. face of human suffering and the in Africa, according to profes­lescents in a secondary school Her lecture, "The Cross has In her twenty years of prac­faces where she has met the sor James Bellis at a panel dis­in Cape Coast and discussed the 
Many Faces," was the first in tice as a psychotherapist, the Cross there was one certainty cussion last night after visiting differences of the students. the SMC Sesquicentennial Cross has showed Callahan that she could claim. Africa. "Among the students was an Lenten Lecture Series, "A many faces, she said. Five guests reflected on their element of ambition. They 
Celebration of the Cross." It was in the stories of re­"I am most certain that the experiences of living in Africa realized the importance of edu­Callahan's own experience as turned missionaries that she compassionate God enters the as part of Black History Month. cation," Amstrong said. a woman. as a Sister of the was invited into some of the sa­mystery of human suffering in Among them were Bellis, Fr. 
Holy Cross and a clinical psy­cred space of the suffering in our cosmos, and in our James Ferguson, Dr. De The students were also very chologist, allowed her to expe­the Third World. 'chronos,' our ordinary time, in Bryant, Bro. Phillip Amstrong, involved culturally for their rience these images in the "The human face of the Cross ordinary ways and stays and and graduate student Tristan age. 
Cross. reflects not only pain but active weeps and uses our ordinary Borer. "It was fascinating to watch hope for something better," hands, hearts, ears and voices students portray the heritage of 
"I kept seeing images, faces Callahan explained. to bring glimmers of compas­Bellis discussed the difficulty their people," said Amstrong, of persons in my own world, "It is not only the human sion and hope," she concluded. of adjusting to African life and describing a dancing festival both personal and professional; cries and tears but also the Sr. Elena Malits will be pre­living without all the American the students performed. faces from our shared world lament of a world where the senting "The Cross: Letting God conveniences such as "potato and the icons of pain from Earth. the air and the water be God,'' the next lecture in the chips and walls that didn't Ferguson spent 20 years as a 
Sarajevo, Bosnia, Somalia, El have been fouled by the toxic series, on Wednesday, March 2, smell of the rain forest or have Salvador, Los Angeles, my own waste beyond imagining." at 12:15 in Stapleton Lounge. geckos running all over them." see AFRICA/ page 4 

SMC re-examines what it means to be a Catholic women's college 
Editor's note: The following sions such as the opening of our is the first in a five-part series sesquicentennial and Ash examining the issues that face Wednesday are what bring us Saint Mary's as it celebrates its together as a Catholic commu­150th year and looks to the fu­nity," Brassil said. ture. There is a distinct sense of 
the Catholic Church present in By MARY GOOD each of the weekly masses of­

As a Protestant teaching at a sisters decreases, according to Catholic college, Newman feels Whelan.FOCUSING 
that the difference between her "In the future, Catholic char­faith and that of the college acter is going to be more up to
ON THE 

need to be more defined. the way people interact on
ISSUES "It is hard to be Protestant in campus,'' Whelan said. 
Part 4of5 a place where Catholics are not As Saint Mary's looks toward saying what it means to be the future, however, they must 
News Writer fered in the residence halls and everyone who is looking for it." Catholic," she said. "Saint return to the past. the Church of the Loretto which Liturgies, however, are not Mary's needs to make its ties to "Honoring tradition is as im­
As members of the Saint makes the diverse reality of the and should not be the only out­the Catholic Church more con­portant for us as our Catholic Mary's community celebrate Church present, according to lets for faith on the-Saint crete." character," Whelan said. "We 150 years of a college steeped Senior Melissa Whelan. Mary's campus. One concrete link between need the experience and the in Catholic tradition they are The differences in each of the "As students seek to develop the college and the Catholic legacy of the Sisters of the Holy finding it difficult to pinpoint masses is good because it al­their spirituality, it is not some­Church dates back 150 years to Cross." what the Catholic character of lows students to worship as thing that should be separate the Congregation of the Sisters "Catholic character is going to that same institution means to­they want, Whelan said. It is from their lives," Brassil said. of the Holy Cross. be more up to the students, fac­day. important for them to then A spiritual dimension outside ulty, staff and administration 
On the level of Campus Min­come together and share their of organized liturgies does exist When the Sisters of the Holy now," Moore agreed. "It is a istry and other organizations experiences in classes, in the at Saint Mary's, but there is a Cross founded Saint Mary's in given with our affiliation with centering solely on the connec­dorms and in service. fine line between general spiri­1844 Catholicism was well de­the sisters." tion between the College and "The masses provide different tuality and Catholic spirituality. fined in mandatory masses, a Students find it easy to expe­Catholicism, the Catholic char­outlets for faith," said Jennifer "In the Saint Mary's mission faculty made up completely of rience their faith in an atmo­acter of Saint Mary's is alive Moore, spiritual life com­statement, generic language sisters, and various other tan­sphere that holds the Catholic and strong, according to Sister missioner on the Board of Gov­such as 'religious sensibility' is gible signs of Catholic charac­character that Saint Mary's Mary Brassil, director of Cam­ernance. "Loretto is formal, used," said Elizabeth Newman, ter. does. pus Ministry. LeMans' mass is individual and assistant professor of religious That Catholic character of "Since faith is part of who I 
The defining element is litur­pretty conventional. Holy Cross' studies at Saint Mary's. "I am yesteryear is weakening as am, I can let that out in the gical celebration, Brassil said. mass is very relaxed and Regi­concerned that Saint Mary's those tangible expressions of classroom without being looked "As a Catholic college, litur­na's mass is somewhere in needs to address what it means faith disappear and the interac­gies that mark important occa-between. There is an outlet for to be Catholic." tion between students and the see CATHOLIC I page 4 


page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, February 24, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Sotnetitnes 
nutnbers aren't 




everything 
Never ask a math major about his or her philoso­phy of life. 
For my twenty-second birthday I received a book entitled "Happy Birthday, February 15." This book was from my mother who, ever aware of my interest 
in math, decided to get 
Steve Tankovich 
me exactly the type of book I would appreciate. Accent Copy Editor 
The book contained tons of pertinent facts about my birthday, such as on Feb. 15, 1925, the London Zoo announced the installment of electric lights to "cheer up" animals sickened by London's weather. The thing that interested me most was a small section in the back of the book entitled, "At Your Age ... " This section was my piece of Pi. 
The whole incident has gotten me thinking. How do we manage to ignore all the facts and figures that stream by us every day? I think about those halcyon days of freshman physics, when it all seemed so simple ... 
Problem 5: Rocky the Flying Squirrel has run out of Whiffie Powder for his Salami Souflee. What is the minimum angular acceleration required for Bullwinkle to hurl Rocky with enough momentum to reach the General Store in downtown Frostbite Falls, MN? 
In class, we reduce and simplify everything until it is simple enough for us to describe. Even if we find something that is so abstract that we can't approach it directly, we manage to come up with some sort of approximation so that we never have to walk away from an equation empty-handed. 
Imagine if we approached life with the same attitude as we approached our work. Could you picture the things people would be saying? 
Isa Digit: "Hey Data! How are calculations? Did you hear it is 2.5 degrees above normal temperature?" 
Data O'Malley: ''I'm doing almost two stan­dard deviations above average, thank you. I read today that there is a Banyan tree in India that is so large that 6000 people can sit under it. That is the maximum capacity of North and South Dining Halls." 
Isa Digit: "Nice interpolation, Data!" 
Numbers do come into our lives in a variety of ways. As I reflect on the 1000 plus days since I got my letter of acceptance to ND, I think of that wonderful 18 plus credit fresman year, and how we were told that we should study 4 hours for every hour we had in class. After calculating that I would be having a 60­80 hr work week for the next four years, I pan­icked and constructed a system for planning my activities. Every SYR, every trip to Chicago, every break to watch Cheers had to be accounted for. After all, the opportunity cost of time is very high. Playing hoops for a couple of hours meant I might miss problem number 17 on my Chemistry test. 
Since then, I've learned to take life a little less seriously. OK, maybe I still notice when my flight out of O'Hare is delayed, but I've learned not to panic. There's more to life than just numbers. I hope everyone realizes this while trying to figure out how many signatures it would take to get the administration to open up the stadium to the Grateful Dead, or whether Tanya Harding has been mathemati­cally eliminated from a medal. Quality time is not measured in mathematical terms. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

JUDAY'S STAFF 
News Production Theresa Aleman Cheryl Moser Edward Imbus Kathie Young 
Allison Ebel 
Sports Accent Mike Norbut Matt Carbone Tom Schlidt Christy Fleming 
Lab Tech Graphics Dave Hungeling Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Kerrigan shines in opening night of women's Olympic figure skating 
HAMAR, Norway 
Nancy Kerrigan made a clean, graceful start to her Olympics last night, landing a triple combination jump and winning the short program in women's figure skat­ing. 
Tonya Harding watched from a box high above the arena, and applauded her American rival's performance. Harding finished the night in lOth place and appeared to be all but out of contention for a medal. 
Dressed in a black-and-white outfit and appearing con­fident, Kerrigan nailed the triple lutz-double toe loop combination that had stymied Harding in her perfor­mance earlier in the evening. 
When she finished with a spin and a look of relief on her face, flowers cascaded onto the ice and Kerrigan skated to the sidelines, while seven of the nine judges placed her first. 
Oksana Baiul of Ukraine, the favorite, was second and Surya Bonaly of France was third. 
After all the headlines and hype, Tonya and Nancy ­along with Surya, Oksana, Katarina and the rest of the gang -took to the ice yesterday for the most feverishly awaited figure skating contest in Olympic history. 
Harding, who was implicated by her ex-husband in the clubbing attack on rival Nancy Kerrigan and went to court to keep her place ori the Olympic team, was eighth in the 27-woman field. Kerrigan was 26th. 
Entering the Olympic Ampitheater ice with her hands together in prayer and her eyes looking skyward, Harding quickly encountered trouble when she failed to complete the front end of a triple lutz-double toe loop 
Clinton proposes sharper logging cutbacks 
WASHINGTON 
Stricter controls of logging on federal land in the Pacific Northwest were pro­posed Wednesday by the Clinton admin­istration as a way to save more fish and wildlife. The government's latest plan calls for allowing about 10 percent less logging in some of the region's oldest forests than the administration had ini­tially proposed last year. But harvests may be even smaller in the next few 


years while the government seeks to lift a 1991 court injunction that halted logging across millions of acres to protect the northern spotted owl, which was declared a threatened species in 1990. Environmentalists had warned the original plan was illegal because it didn't go far enough to protect the habitat for threatened fish species as well as the spotted owl. In 1991, U.S. District Judge William Dwyer halted logging on government forests in the region, ruling that the harvests on govern­ment lands violated federal environmental laws. 
Balanced Budget Amendment loses support 
WASHINGTON 
Opponents of a balanced budget amendment gained support in the Senate on Wednesday as both sides worked privately to nail down the votes needed to pre­vail. With the Senate staging daylong debate on the amendment, Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, declared his oppo­sition in a floor speech. "We don't need constitutional cover to make the tough choices," needed to reduce red ink, he said. With a final showdown likely several days distant, sponsors signaled acceptance of a provision designed to keep judges from imposing specific spending cuts or tax hikes in the event Congress fails to balance the budget. Supporters of the balanced budget amend­ment fear that politically attractive programs could be unraveled. The amendment would require a three-fifths vote of the House and Senate before federal spending could exceed revenue in any year. 
NATIONAL Weather
INDIANA Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 24.
Thursday, Feb. 24 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


FRONTS: 
....,.........-............. ......ar 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu·Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

Atlanta 55 42 Denver 56 31 New York 48 33 Baltimore 49 39 Friendswood 61 34 Philadelphia 52 41 Bosmn 45 26 Los Angeles 76 50 Phoenix 73 44 Chicago 24 14 Miami 82 71 St. Louis 37 17 Colombus 31 29 Minneapolis 20 9 San Francisco 60 44 Dallas 64 30 New Orleans 59 43 Seattle 45 35 

Apes were in Asia 1.8 million years ago 

SAN FRANCISCO 
The discovery of pre-human fossils from Java-at 1.8 million years, the oldest ever found outside Africa -sug­gests that human ancestors lived in Asia much earlier than once believed and raises new questions about our history. New chemical dating shows a fossilized piece of skull from a hominid called Homo erectus is 800,000 years older than scientists previously believed, showing that Homo erectus lived in Africa and Asia at the same time and casting doubt on a theory that these hominids left Africa only after the invention of a new type of tool. "This means that we have to look for new reasons of why Homo erectus got out of Africa," Geologist Jonathon Swisher said as he announced his findings at the Institute of Human Origins in Berkeley, Calif. Previously it was believed that Homo erectus evolved from earlier pre­humans in Africa and stayed on that continent until the invention, before 1.4 million years ago, of implements called the Acheulean tools. These tools had double edges and were much better than flaked stone used earlier. 
Whitewater special counsel names team 

LITTLE ROCK 
Special counsel Robert Fiske named a legal team Wednesday heavy with seasoned prosecutors and fi­nancial fraud experts to investigate the Whitewater real estate venture involving President and Mrs. Clinton. Six of the eight lawyers selected by Fiske are current or for­mer prosecutors, and four have had high-profile success­es in financial fraud cases. Roderick C. Lankier, a former assistant district attorney in Manhattan who prosecuted major murder cases, will oversee the investigation into deputy White House counsel Vincent Foster's suicide. Foster was working on Whitewater matters for the Clintons at the time of his death last year. And Russell "Rusty" Hardin Jr., a Houston lawyer and former Texas state prosecutor of the year, was named lead prosecutor in the trial of former judge David Hale, who has accused President Clinton of pressuring him to make a federally backed loan to a business associate. 
Via Associated Pross Grap/licsNot 01994Accu-Wealher,lnc. 

---~ ~ --------~----------~---~-~---~--­
Thursday, February 24, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page3 

Wolf: Achieve one set of goals 
By MARA DIVIS 
News Writer 
If women train their minds to achieve one set of goals, they have begun to teach the next generation how to teach and how to love, according to Maryanne Wolf, Saint Mary's class of 1969, in last night's premiere Sesquicentennial lec­ture. 
Reading from a series of let­ters she never sent to signifi­cant people in her life, Wolf cited important shaping events in her life, and how attending a women's college inspired her to continue learning and teaching. 
"My life is a history of strug­gles of every student, now and always," she said. 
Wolf received a Master's degree in English Literature from Northwestern University and a doctorate degree in Education from Harvard University. Most recently she studied neurolinguistic research in Germany on a Fulbright Scholarship. Drawing on her research, she said that each child should understand his or her thinking process. 
"When we scrutinize our development over time, we change into people capable of thinking with all their intellect," she said. 
This scrutiny was active dur­ing her time at Saint Mary's, Wolf said, reading from a letter she wrote to her parents about her thoughts and feelings dur­ing her freshman year. 
"It (her years at Saint Mary's) is the most rich I'll ever feel in my entire life," she said. ''I'm sure of it." 
She spoke of the intellectual stimulation she experienced, how the faculty members and the women in her residence halls and classes both fascinat­ed and inspired her. 
One English professor, who she admired and respected, warned her during her fresh­man year that she would come to oppose the Vietnam War, which her parents supported. 
"I am twisted inside, torn between two families," she said. "I firmly believe that I am acting out of conscience. My parents gave up untold plea­sures in life to teach me to think, and now they believe they have created a monster." 
She confronted opposition again as she applied for gradu­ate school teaching fellowships and again had to think for her­self, she said. 
In a letter to two professors who had received the fellow­ships for which she had applied, she said the in­terviewer told her she would be "eaten up alive" in graduate school and would probably get married right out of college and have three kids before she ever finished a degree. 
She countered this opposition 


Pangborn defeats Morrissey in Iceberg semi-finals 
by vowing that one day she would be her correspondents' colleague. 
"Some day women won't get circumvented, and I will be a college teacher," she said. 
She strengthened her inter­est in education by teaching an ethnically mixed third grade class in Hawaii. The students spoke several languages and most could not read a common one. The illiteracy rate frustrat­ed her and she vowed to teach herself to help them. 
"I can't give them what they need: an opening to literacy," she said. 
She explored the frustrating questions of teaching reading and neurolinguistic research at the Harvard University reading lab, she wrote to the lab's director. 
The learning process is the same as the reading process, she explained. Teachers can predict, diagnose, and ask more questions. 
Her Saint Mary's back­ground encouraged this ques­tioning and dedication to her goals of working more closely and lovingly as a teacher, of more intense commitment to education. 
"Saint Mary's taught us to search for our first principles and order our life by them," she said. "Stories upon stories are being built during these, your years at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame." 
By COLIN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
A federal health care system mandating universal coverage is not only un-American, but close to socialism, said Kara Spak, a Pangborn Hall Iceberg Debates team member whose team defeated Morrissey Hall in a controversial semi-final round. 
The· two teams debated February 17 about making con­traceptives available on cam­pus, but the absence of one judge induced Morrissey to contest Pangborn's victory. A win requires the votes of two of the three judges; last Thurs­day's semi-final witnessed a split decision between the two officials present, according to Iceberg Chairman Matt Glover. 
Glover and the two hall teams entertained a proposal for a three-way fmal but chose a re­match. "We wanted to be very sportsmanlike about this. We just wanted to move on," said Pangborn sophomore Elizabeth McAvoy of the decision. 
"Must we sell out our funda­mental values of majority rule and free choice?" asked Spak, quoting House Minority Whip Newt Gingrich. Citing National Public Radio and USA Today polls where a majority of the respondents considered health care "not a crisis," the Pang­born team contended that Fed­eral government intervention would " ... enfeeble, if not de­stroy, the best health care sys­tem in the world." 
Spak proposed as an alterna­tive to government control in­centive programs designed to encourage improvements in national exercise and diet habits. She noted emerging cracks in Canada's universal access program: "1.4 million citizens await care; 45 percent of those needing surgery say they are in pain." 
McAvoy, voted best speaker of the evening, emphasized the United States' capitalist roots and frequently equated the "best technology" with the "best system." Federal control is inherently un-American, she argued. "The government deems to treat the private citi-


CAMPUS BANDS! 
March 25, 1994 Applications for this huge 
BATTLE OF THE BANDS 
are now available in 203 LaFortune Entries are limited so apply now! 
zen like a child." 
"How long can we find moral justification for delaying re­form?" countered Morrissey junior Bruce Johnson. 
Citing 11 percent annual in­creases in national heath care expenses, Johnson declared, "Cost containment does not work. Greed, however, always finds a way." His teammate, freshman Juan Mendoza, as­serted that the private sector has failed to provide adequate care, an intrinsic right, he con­tended, in an industrialized society. "People are dying," Johnson said. "The govern­ment must step in." 
Mendoza ridiculed the idea of private sector responsibility for health care and questioned Pangborn's evidence. "Did they [the pollsters] call the ghettos, the poor, and ask for their opinions regarding care?" He upheld universal health care as a vehicle for quality of life and peace of mind for the nation, decrying the current private system which elevates the indi­vidual's needs over those of society's. 
Three volunteer judges eval­uated the contestants in cate­gories including analy­sis/definition, cross examina­tion, and persuasiveness. 
Marian David, assistant Phi­losophy professor, and Paul Roth, a third-year law student, cast their ballots for Pangborn. David considered the decision difficult and noted that the scoring system weighs con­structive arguments more heavily than rebuttals. Kurt Mills, graduate student in gov­ernment, voted for the affirma­tive side. 
The tournament was founded in the 1988-89 academic year to increase student awareness of domestic and international social and political issues, ac­cording to Glover. 
Pangborn faces Stanford Hall next week in the Iceberg finals. The two-person teams will de­bate the ethical implications and viability of genetic engi­neering to combat disease and inherited anomalies. The win­ning hall claims a $500 prize and possession of the tourna­ment's traveling trophy. 


"We're looking forward to a very competitive final," said Stanford freshman debater Chris Regan. "I hope Pangborn is up to the challenge because Stanford will be ready." 
COLD SORES? 


LYCALL OINTMENT 
• 
FAST PAIN RELIEF 

• 
SPEEDS HEALING 

• 
USED BY PROFESSIONALS 


ASK YOUR DRUGGIST 
HOOK'S DRUG STORES 


page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 24, 1994 
Catholic 
continued from page 1 
down upon," Senior Andrea Cox said. "I can talk about God without getting any conde­scending looks." 
Many agree that the class­room is indeed the place to be­gin exploring and questioning what Catholic character means at Saint Mary's. 
"There needs to be as much emphasis on Catholic identity as there is on women's identi­ty," Newman said. "We need to foster an intellectual respect for faith." 
Students are asking for this kind of intellectual stimulation in the religious studies curricu­lum. 
"Right now I don't get enough Catholic tradition in the class­room. There needs to be a push to learn fundamental Catholic teachings, otherwise we cannot understand others," 


Governance 
continued from page 1 
will consists of 40 members. Three Class I members will be appointed by the President of the Congregation and the re­maining 37 Class II members will be chosen by the Board of Regents and by each successive Board. 
With the change in gover­nance and more power vested in the layity, the college is com­mitting to remain firm to its Catholic mission. 
"The agreement gives the College Board more responsi­bility and authority in which to make certain decisions for­merly reserved to the Congre­gation, yet it ensures that the voice of the Congregation will continue to influence the minis­terial direction for the future," O'Brien said. 
Included in the new bylaws are protected covenants reaf­firming the College as a Catholic liberal arts college for women. 
These covenants can only be changed by a majority vote of both the Class I and Class II members of the Board of Trustees. 
In addition, the College is adding a new Senior Officer to the college. The new Vice Pres­ident of Mission will be a mem­ber of the Congregation re­sponsible for carrying out the 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents: 
ARaisinintheSun 

by Lorraine Hansberry 
Washington Hall University of Notre Dome Wednesday, February 23-Soturdoy, February 26, at 8:10p.m. Sunday, February 27, at 2:30p.m. 
Tickets: $7 reserved; student and senior discounts available Wednesday, Thursday dnd Sunday Viso/McsterCord orders: 631·8128 
Directed by guest artist Kym Mo o r e 
Whelan said. "I don't know enough about my own faith to study others. In our struggle to become ecumenical, we are los­ing the fight to be Catholic." 
Familiarizing students with their Catholicity must begin through dialogue and commu­nication, according to Whelan. There is a lack of controversy on the Saint Mary's campus which makes the community passive members of the Catholic church. 
By working to eliminate polarization and promote dia­logue, a new wave of learning and seeking understanding can begin, Whelan said. This search for understanding must permeate all areas of campus including clubs, classrooms and chapels. 
"Saint Mary's needs to ad­dress how we integrate intellec­tual reflection on Catholicism into our whole way of being here," Newman said. 
To accomplish this the Col-
Catholic mission of St. Mary's and serving as a liaison be­tween the Congregation and the college. 
This ensures that the voice of the Congregation will continue to influence the ministry role of the college, according to O'Brien. 
"(Through our discussion) we have deepened our under­standing and commitment to the mission of the college," O'Brien said. 
The decision was made in re­sponse to the changing needs that face Catholic institutions today, Hickey said. 
"We really felt that we were getting into a situation where it was becoming increasingly more difficult to attract quali­lege must look at the historical tradition of Saint Mary's, the continued presence of the Sis­ters of the Holy Cross on the Saint Mary's campus, campus ministry, liturgy, the Center for Spirituality and other well de­fined Catholic organizations and philosophies. 
"As a Catholic College we will continue to strive to live by the ideal of loving one another," Brassil said. "It isn't always easy to do but we certainly won't have peace and justice in the world if we don't continue to strive to look at those com­mandments and determine what they mean for us." 
Once Saint Mary's determine where they are in terms of Catholicism they can then pass it on. 
"Catholic identity is not meant to be exclusive, but rather a way to say what we stand for as an institution," Newman said. "Catholic identi­ty is inviting people to join in this enterprise." 
fled lay .people to serve on the Board and to retain those peo­ple on the Board," Hickey said. 
The new form of governance puts Saint Mary's at the fore­front of changes that Catholic colleges and universities will be making in the future to respond to the changing relationship between the religious and the layity, according to Hickey. 
"This is clearly going to be a trend in the future," Hickey said. 
The NAYLEN association of more than 100 Catholic colleges founded by orders of sisters began discussion on how to address the change in gov­ernance at their conference last fall when Saint Mary's was fin­ishing their plan, putting them 

The University of Notre Dame Deportment of Music presents 
one of totfag's foremost interpreters of .9lmericall music 
Paul Sperry tenor 
Ina 
Guest Voice Recital 

Sunday, February 27, 1994 2:00p.m. 
"People are able to live nor­Mrica mal lives in spite of the vio­
continued from page 1 
missionary in Uganda and shared stories of African spiri­tuality. 
"The people of Africa I en­countered were very spiritual in some way or another," said Ferguson of the different peo­ple he met, both Christian and non-Christian. 
While some talked about the people and culture they en­countered while in Africa, Borer talked about the views of Africa that Americans receive from the media. 
"My biggest gripe since I've been back is the media por­trayal of South Africa," said Borer, since most reports on South Africa focus on the vio­lence only, no matter how min­imal it may be. 
ahead of the other institutions, he added. 
The announcement and sign­ing of the agreement was timed with the College's sesquicen­tennial celebration. 
"It's time to honor the past and look toward the future," Hickey said. "As Saint Mary's lence." 
Borer is currently research­ing South Africa for her disser­tation and commented on the racial situation. "I felt less racism in South Africa than in the US." 
Bryant, a community psy­chologist, is involved with a project that works on improv­ing the education in Aha, Nige­ria. Her group has made three trips so far to Nigeria. 
"It's not really a culture shock since they have the same styles, cars, and music. Things are the same," Bryant de­scribed. 
A big difference, according to Bryant, is the lack of books and properly trained teachers in the education system. Her group is currently collecting text books to send to the community. 
celebrates its sesquicentennial, it is especially appropriate that we act to extend this very suc­cessful collaboration into the future. This agreement for a new century assures the per­petuation of a relationship which has made this institution the nation's premiere Catholic women's college." 

Some employers promise you the world. We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility or a lifetime or service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-63X5 
I· . ! 
... 
------------------~----~-~~-..-------~---------------------~ 
Thursday, February 24, 1994 
Occupational exposure not linked to child cancer 
By RANDI HUTTER EPSTEIN Associated Press 
LONDON 

An British scientist says that an association between men's exposure to radiation and can­cer in their offspring is proba­bly a chance finding. 
Sir Richard Doll, a cancer expert at Oxford University who is regarded as the man who established the link between smoking and lung cancer, said "the evidence is very clear that there is no detectable link between a father's exposure to radiation and subsequent leukemia in the offspring." 
A commentary by Doll and his colleagues, Dr. H. John Evans and Dr. Sarah Darby, is published in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. 
The article is in response to speculation that an abnormal­ly high rate of childhood can­cer in Seascale, a town in northwest England, was due to fathers' exposure to radia­tion. Many of the men worked in a nuclear power plant in Sellafield, 2 miles away. 
Among the Sellafield chil­

dren, the rate of leukemia and 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, 
cancer of the disease-fighting 
lymph system, is about 14 
times the national average. 
The authors conclude that 

"the association between pa­
ternal irradiation and 
leukemia is largely or wholly a chance fmding." 
Fears that the power plant was to blame for the chil­dren's cancers were spurred by the late Dr. Martin Gardner at Britain's Medical Research Council. In 1990, he suggested that exposure to radiation could damage sperm and therefore offspring. 
The hypothesis prompted two families to sue British Nuclear Fuels PLC, the compa­ny that operates the power plant. In October, they lost the case. 
After the trial, a government study showed that children of workers who received very high doses of radiation were 70 times more likely to devel­op cancer. 
However, the investigators added that they couldn't rule out other causes for the excess cases of cancer. 
Peter Morgan, a spokesman from Britain's National Radio­logical Protection Board said the Nature article "confirms our views that we need all ways of looking at the causes of childhood cancer. The link has not been confirmed." 
Doll said the possibility that 

radiation damaged sperm 
"does not accord with what is 
known about radiation genet­
ics or what is known about 
childhood leukemia.'' 
He cites other evidence 

against the link. For instance, 
there was no excess cancers in 
children of survivors of atomic 
bomb explosions in Japan. 
SENIORS ! After graduation take a year off with us ! 
We are looking for Christi;!ii men and WO!Jl."n'1fyears of &ge or older interested in volunteerirtg a year-ot~rvice with the\ needy and marginalized. / · -· ~ 
Volunteers .live together'-with either __Marist Brothers, 4·ters, or 
Priests and work as teachers (primarY and secondary  no  
certification needed), social workel"$. child care worke  and  
parish ministers.  / ;  I  1I  

Room and board. monthly stipend and medical insurahce are 
provided.  ,  
i  ,  
1  

Take a year off between icollege and whatever and treat ypurself to an experience of a lifetime. 

: / ! For more info ,contact: / Bro. Frank Ksllly, FMS/ Marist Volu~eer Propam 26 First k;le / _ Pelbam...NY 1080J:.~_......--­
914-!)i-8640 
7
718"§52-1848 ... ------. 
J 

The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Peres: Army to leave with agreement 
By ALLYN FISHER Associared Press 
JERUSALEM 

Israeli troops will start leav­ing the Palestinian autonomy zones the minute a full agree­ment on self-rule is sealed, Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said Wednesday. 
Peres also echoed the chief Palestinian negotiator, Nabil Shaath, who said in Egypt that an agreement on security and civilian government issues could probably be reached within three weeks. 
In Paris, though, negotiators ran into difficulties in talks on economic relations between Is­rael and the autonomy zones planned for the occupied Gaza Strip and West Bank region around Jericho. 
Israel's finance minister hur­riedly left for Paris, claiming the Palestinians were backing out of an agreement to inte­grate the economies of Israel and the self-rule areas. Pales­tinians denied any such accord. 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin has stressed that Israel will not begin the self-rule experiment until it has reached a detailed accord on all aspects of auton­omy. over water and zoning, and se-
But Environment Minister curity measures. Yossi Sarid, often an Israeli ne-Heading to the economic talks gotiator, told The Associated in Paris, Finance Minister Press he doubted the economic Abraham Shochat said, "We problems would hold up overall thought we had agreed on an agreement. overall custom duty agreement, 
Peres told the AP in an inter-but now they have changed view at Parliament: "The their attitude." minute we shall have the Palestinian officials denied agreement, then the with-there was ever an agreement to drawal will begin. We hope that integrate the economies, which in several weeks we shall con-would give Israel a strong influ­clude the agreement and then ence on economic develop­things will begin to be imple-ments. mented." "We never had an agreement 
Peres said that after the with Israel on any issues, Palestine Liberation Organiza-whether it was customs or tion agreed last month to let Is-bankings," said Dr. Mohammed rael run security at border Ishtayia, a member of the crossings, "Things began to Palestinian delegation. "All we move ahead quite nicely." did is exchange points of views 
Negotiators are defining the on these issues and many oth­details for carrying out the ers, but no agreements were Sept. 13 lsrael-PLO accord reached." granting Palestinians limited self-rule in Gaza and Jericho. Shochat threatened that The initial Dec. 13 target for Palestinian goods and workers the start of Israeli withdrawal would be cut off from their was missed because of much needed Israeli market if disagreements over terms for an agreement could not be the transfer of power. reached. 
Unresolved issues include the Palestinian businessmen have 
links between the Israeli and said repeatedly their economic Palestinian economies, the size prospects would be dismal of the Jericho area, control without an Israeli outlet. 

Ten wounded in tourist train bombing 
Associated Press 
ASSIUT, Egypt 

Suspected Muslim extremists detonated a bomb on a passen­ger train in southern Egypt on Wednesday, wounding five for­eign tourists and five Egyptians. 
The attack was claimed by al­Gamaa al-Islamiya, or the Is­lamic Group, which has waged a two-year campaign to try to overthrow Egypt's secular gov­ernment. 

MontegoBay  from$449  
Negtll  from$479  
Cancun  f•om$469  

•u.,.rtu,... lrolll lndlanapolla er Chk•t•llf 
•o-., popvlllll' cl-a11Dnl lndudor hM111a CIIJ A DDJtOIIa IMrh, florldCI '(;all fat" mDnllnf....,..llonlll 
The bombing, the second at­tack on a train since Saturday. followed the Islamic Group's warnings to tourists and for­eign investors to leave Egypt or risk getting caught in escalating violence. 
In its claim on Wednesday, faxed to a Western news agency in Cairo, the extremist group repeated its threat: "All tourists must leave the country to save themselves from being killed in the midst of the con­flict." 
Also Wednesday, a bomb went off outside the Misr Amer­ica International Bank in down­town Cairo. The blast shattered windows and bent wrought­iron security bars at the bank but caused no injuries. The bank is across the street from a parking lot used by the U.S. Embassy. 
Calll-800-FINDS Nll (in Illinois, call708-491­5250), or fax (708-49 H660) or mail this coupon to Summer Session '94, 2115 North Campus Drive, Suite 162, Evanston, Illinois 60208-2650, for your free copy of the Summer Session '94 catalog 
(available in March). 
Send the catalog to 0 my home 0 my school. 
Name 
School Address 

City State Zip 
Home Address 

City State Zip Northwestern is an equal oppllrtunity educator and employer. 
after the Islamic Group urged depositors, including foreign investors, to remove their funds because they were indirectly supporting the government. 
The explosion on the train oc­curred about as the train was approaching Abu Tig, about 215 miles south of Cairo in As­siut province, the region where much of the violence has oc­curred. 
Dr. Samuel Wilson Bishai, di­rector of Abu Tig hospital, said the wounded included an Aus­tralian couple, a New Zealand couple and a German woman as well as five Egyptians. 
He said all suffered light in­juries, mainly from flying glass or shrapnel, and that the for­eigners were being evacuated to Cairo by bus. 
A statement issued by the In­terior Ministry, which is re­sponsible for national security, said the bomb had been placed on a luggage rack in one of the first-class cars. 
Last Saturday, suspected Muslim extremists opened fire on the overnight Cairo-to-Luxor train near Abu Tig. Two for­eigners and two Egyptians were hurt. 
ICE I'IIIIU(PCit lt31, t45, i:li, 7:45, 11:11 
11.111 t:IBIOO ltli, til,~ nl, 1:15 atY0 QC13): l:li, 4:1i, 1:4i,1:11 IY fi!B TIE~ U:4i, til, i.,1:8, 
11:11 Mlfiii.Y ~~ ta, 7:1i, 1:4i IIIUIY llllli'Cit t.li, t45, 7..HI 

------·~----~­
page6 The Observer • RUSSIA NEWS Thursday, February 24, 1994 

Disclosures may have cost 2 lives 
Parliament pardons '91 coup plotters, fall fighting leaders By LARRY RYCKMAN former Vice President Alexan­Associated Press der Rutskoi, as well as pic­tures of Josef Stalin and MOSCOW Vladimir Lenin. In its first major action, Rus­There appeared to be little sia's new parliament took a chance Rutskoi and the others swipe at President Boris would be released soon from Yeltsin on Wednesday by Lefortovo Prison. granting amnesty to leaders of Even Rutskoi's supporters the 1991 Soviet coup and the conceded they could face a hard-liners who fought him months-long legal battle over last fall. whether the actions of the Yeltsin, who disbanded the hard-liners are covered by the last parliament just five amnesty. months ago, issued an angry The dozen former Soviet statement denouncing the vote leaders charged in the 1991 as a "dangerous path which coup have been free pending contradicts the national inter­their treason trial, which ests." began last August but has "Regrettably, having barely repeatedly been delayed by started its work, the State procedural wrangling and the Duma has shown that it hasn't ill health of some defendants. drawn any lessons from the Yeltsin repeatedly clashed bitter experience of the with the old parliament over Supreme Soviet," said economic and political poli­Vyacheslav Kostikov, Yeltsin's cies. press secretary. He broke that stalemate by The vote came one day disbanding parliament on before Yeltsin was to deliver Sept. 21 and ordering elec­his first, long-delayed speech tions for a new legislature. to parliament's powerful Two weeks later, he sent lower chamber, the State tanks and troops to evict law­Duma. makers from their headquar­Reformers warned that the ters when their supporters amnesty could revive the rioted in the streets. Scores of political unrest that turned the people died in two days of streets of the capital into a fighting. battleground in October. Yeltsin's hopes for a more "This is the beginning of a sympathetic parliament were civil war in Russia," said dashed in December's elec­Sergei Yushchenkov, chair­tions, which were dominated man of the parliament's by Communists and national­defense committee. ists opposed to his reforms. The Communists and na­Since taking office in tionalists who pushed the January, lawmakers have measure through parliament mainly devoted themselves to argued it would heal Russia's procedural matters -until political wounds, not reopen Wednesday. them. The amnesty won passage in "This is a historic moment: the State Duma on a 252-67 Feb. 23, 1994, means an end vote, with 28 deputies abstain­to civil war in Russia," said ing. Lawmakers said the mea­ultranationalist Vladimir sure does not require Yeltsin's Zhirinovsky. approval, something it would Later, at an anti-Yeltsin rally never get. near the Kremlin, there was "The feelings of millions of no talk of reconciliation. Russians who defended "Yeltsin is a murderer!" the democracy in August 1991 crowd of about 2,000 people and October 1993 have been chanted as a light snow fell at trampled on," Kostikov said. sunset. "All power to the "By initiating this decision, Soviets!" they shouted. Communists and members of Many waved red Soviet flags Zhirinovsky's party have and carried small portraits of revealed their true goals: to some of the jailed leaders of come to power through desta­the October violence, including bilization of the situation."  

"A Cause for Celebration! Explosively funny, deeply moving and artfully stylized. Hip-hop poetry on the streets ... " -Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE "An Excellent Film! Vibrant and funny... Ariyan Johnson is irresistible." -Jeff Craig, SIXTY SECOND PREVIEW ~~'YQ?4....®A JUST ANOTHeR GIRL ON THE I.R.T. A LESLIE HARRIS FILM NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 CALL 631-7361 FOR TIMES AND DATES FOR ALL CINEMA AT THE SNITE FILMS  

By ROBERT BURNS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
At least two Soviets who spied for the United States were killed after being exposed by the career CIA officer who has been accused of selling national security secrets, American of­ficials said Wednesday. 
Meanwhile, the accused offi­cer's wife has been cooperating with the government since she was arrested along with her husband on Monday, according to one official, commenting only on condition of anonymity. 
The official would not say what Maria del Rosario Casas Ames has disclosed. But her cooperation could be crucial to the government's effort to learn how much damage she and her husband, CIA operations officer Aldrich H. Ames, might have done. 
The Clinton administration seemed determined not to allow the issue to ruin relations with Russian President Boris Yeltsin. 
President Clinton said the case involved a "very serious" breach of security "because of issues that I am not at this time at liberty to discuss." 
But he cautioned against a drastic change in U.S.-Russia relations. 
"I do not think the facts of this case at this time under­mine in any way shape or form the policy we have followed the last year toward President Yeltsin and his government and the forces of change in Russia," Clinton said. 
The administration has asked the Russians to defuse tension over the spy case by voluntarily removing from Washington one or more of the Russian in-Union and later the Russian telligence officers connected to government in exchange for the alleged 1985 recruitment of cash payments totaling $1.5 Ames and his wife, Rosario. million. 

Senate Republican leader The spy operation is alleged Robert Dole of Kansas called to have continued until the two the case "as damaging as any were arrested by FBI agents on in U.S. intelligence history." He Monday. said that at a minimum the Vincent Cannistraro, a retired Russians should "cease and CIA officer, said in an interview condemn efforts to penetrate Wednesday that the Central American intelligence." Intelligence Agency knew of at 
In Moscow, officials played least two U.S. agents-officials down the importance of the in the Soviet government who case and said it should not pro-were working for the CIA ­voke "excessive political emo-who were killed after being tions." Some said the United revealed by Ames. States continues to spy on Rus-A congressional official, sia. speaking on condition of 
Russia's Foreign Intelligence anonymity, said separately that Service chief, Yevgeny Pri-at least two U.S. agents al­makov, told The Associated legedly revealed by Ames had Press he had never heard of been killed. Ames. CIA spokesman Dave 
The Ameses were charged Christian said he could not con­Tuesday with conspiracy to firm the deaths. commit espionage, a charge An FBI affidavit released that carries a potential penalty Tuesday alleged that Ames in of life in prison. 1990 had passed to the Russian 
The couple are scheduled to intelligence services the identity appear at a hearing in federal of a Russian counterintelligence court in Alexandria, Va., on officer who had been working Friday. as an agent for the United 
The Justice Department ac-States. It did not identify the cused Ames, 52, and his wife, agent and did not indicate 41, of funneling U.S. national whether others were com­security secrets to the Soviet promised. 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 
1l9!i)' (I Rt~th 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
(219)277.. 1291

5140831 North South Bend, IN 4663 7 Phone Answered 24 hrs. 

Forget to buy your Senior Formal Ticket? 
Here's your last chance. 
T1ckets w11/ be on sale tomght from 6.00-9.00 p.m. at Theodore's in LaFortune. 
Tickets for the dance are $7000• Also, tickets for Second City are still available for $12°0 per person and champagne glasses for $500 each. 




John M. Finnis 
Professor of Law and Legal Philosophy at University College, Oxford 
"Law, Morality, and 'Sexual Orientation"' 
Barry Courtroom, Notre Dame Law School 
Friday, February 25th, 1994, at Noon 
.----------.--..~--~--------.-~------~--------~~~--~~------------------------~-------~ 
Thursday, February 24, 1994 The Observer • YUGOSLAVIA NEWS page 7 
Bosnian government, Croat forces agree on cease-fire 
By SNJEZANA VUKIC 
Associated Press 
ZAGREB, Croatia 
Under growing diplomatic pressure from the West, the military chiefs of Bosnia's Mus­lim-led government and their second-strongest foes, Bosnia's Croats, signed a truce Wednes­day. 
Many truces in Bosnia have collapsed, but the accord be­tween the former allies against Bosnia's Serbs is likely to gain strength from diplomatic efforts to extend across Bosnia a NATO-enforced truce in Sara­jevo. 
A new note of discord, how­ever, emerged between Russia and the West when Boris Yeltsin lashed out at NATO for threatening air strikes against Russia's traditional allies, the Serbs, without asking Russia first. 
The Russian president reiter­ated his proposal for a summit between Russia, the United States, France, Britain and Germany to "put an end to the Yugoslav conflict." But the United States and Germany were cool to the idea Wednes­day, indicating it was prema­
Foreign diplomats consider an end to fighting between Croats and government forces crucial to an overall peace set­tlement. 
The cease-fire, which takes effect at noon (2 a.m. EST) Fri­day, covers central Bosnia and Mostar and other areas in the south where Muslims and Croats have fought bitterly since their alliance collapsed last April. 
"The U.N. hopes and trusts that it will be respected and implemented by both sides, which is essential in this mo­ment," said Yasushi Akashi, head of the U.N. mission in for­mer Yugoslavia. Akashi par­ticipated in the four hours of talks that produced the accord. 


The agreement is the most strikes. precise and serious in a long The Russian initiative averted list of cease-fire accords. Its the strikes, and Yeltsin said signing came amid renewed Wednesday that Russia must efforts by the United Nations, not be left out of international NATO and especially the United security decisions. States and Russia to bring Yeltsin, speaking on a holiday peace to Bosnia. honoring the armed forces, said 
Yeltsin's proposal, announced the attempt by NATO "to make Tuesday, would build on the a decision about bombing the Russian initiative last week that Sarajevo region without asking persuaded Bosnian Serbs to Russia caused indignation not withdraw heavy weapons from only in the leadership of Russia, Sarajevo following NATO's ulti-but in all her citizens." 


20o/o Off 
•

coptes on our 
I I 
resume paper. .The Copy Shop 
.... LaFortune Student Center 
This Coupon Required For Discount. Not valid with any other offer. Exp 3/11/94. 
Spring Break Loan 
$300 minimum $300 maximum Deferred payments 9.4% APR Students with good credit or no credit qualify 
No co-signer needed. Bring your student I.D. 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 288-NDCU 
Independent of the University 
acheslav Kostikov, said some NATO leaders had shown "barely veiled disappointment" that Russian diplomacy made the bombing unnecessary. 
The United States and Ger­many were cool, however, to­ward Yeltsin's summit pro­posal. 
Asked about the Russian pro­posal, White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers said the United States had not made a formal response. She said, " ... if that's an appropriate step, we'll certainly take a look at it." 
Stephen Oxman, an assistant secretary of state who partici­pated in the Bonn diplomatic talks Tuesday on the war, said such a meeting could "come perhaps at the end of the pro­cess." 
Germany's Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel said such a meet­ing was "an end goal" after lower-level talks are success­fully completed. 
Other mediation efforts con­tinued. In Zagreb, Croatia's capital, senior U.N. officials and the international mediators for Bosnia met to discuss further peace moves, but they did not reveal any details. 
The session included media­tors Lord Owen of the European Union and Thorvald Stoltenberg of the United Nations, Akashi and Kofi Annan, overall head of 
U.N. peacekeeping operations. American envoy Charles Red­man and Russian envoy Vitaly Churkin had been expected to take part but were not present. 
At least 200,000 people are dead or missing in the fighting that began when Bosnia se­ceded from Serb-dominated Yugoslavia. 
Croats and the government were initially allies against the Serbs when the war began in April 1992, but they later start­ed battling over the 30 percent of Bosnia not controlled by Serbs. 
The cease-fire pact was signed Wednesday by Rasim Delic, the Bosnian government commander. and Ante Roso, the Bosnian Croat commander. Significantly, the talks at a U.N. base at Zagreb airport were at­tended by Gen. Jean Cot, U.N. commander in former Yu­goslavia, and Lt. Gen. Sir Michael Rose, commander of 
U.N. forces in Bosnia. 
Roso spoke of "new times, new dialogues," and Delic said the agreement could "show us the way to a political agree­ment." 
In addition to the truce, the two warring sides agreed to: 
-Position U.N. peacekeepers in sensitive areas to ensure ad­herence to the accord. 
-Put all artillery under U.N. control or withdraw such weapons from the front line by noon March 7 -at least 6 1/4 miles for mortars and 12 1/2 miles for tanks and artillery. 
-Establish a joint truce­monitoring commission with 
U.N. peacekeeping officials on Friday in Kiseljak, just west of Sarajevo. 
The two sides also agreed to open specified routes for U.N. peacekeepers and aid convoys. The only checkpoints on the routes are to be manned by 
U.N. soldiers. 
Both sides also promised to dismantle prison camps, re­lease all prisoners and allow unhindered distribution of hu­manitarian aid. 
WAY-FUN 
KATIE 
DUNN 
IS TURNING 




21!! 
HAPPY BIRTH­DAY CATIEI 
...,.w, .. ,;.·:.:._, 
.ASSOCIATION 
Concerns (CSC) 






VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, February 24, 1994 

IT'S !3f:3fflA 7lJTAL.-NieHTMARF3,
MR. 5/.0aJM, aJJW YOU 

ANO YOU!< PA5T 
MAN. &V&RYWH&R& I 60,
Pl&A5£3 7l3U.-. 7H& JURY 

WASN'T/i.KAC!lY
fflJPl& POINTANO SN/O<eR. 

IJJ&U,NO.
HOW TH£3 UJW GRAa 

A/JAY/NTH& 
NOW7HAT
YOU /?13C:e/Vf3f) HA5 
IJJOMff/11 TURNAWAYFROMM&. 

PARJ<., tiTHtR, 
YOUM13N­
fXJ{6 NIPATMYHat7. ?HtY
AFFeC-T&/? YOUR. t./F& 7 

IJJA5 IT, 50N ~ 
TION/T. ..
5f3tM 70KNOWI 

I
NO /.ON6tR HAV& 

A RJTUR&. I ~ 
IN FACT, YOU 
tWR& A81J5El), 
APR.tesrr

RIGHF8YA 
''Moral indignation per­
91!<13,WHY

Pl</135!; Pm-IAP3? 
NOT?
I \ 

mits envy or hate to be acted out under the guise of 
virtue." 

-Erich Fromm 
... I 
EDITORIAL 
Holy Cross sister for SM C President 
The Catholic character of colleges and universities used to be an easy thing to define. Being Catholic meant being run by an order of priests or sisters. With decreasing numbers of men and women entering religious orders, though, defining what it means to be a Catholic institution is a much more difficult task. 
That is the question Saint Mary's faces as it institutes a new governance structure that invests more power in the laity. 
How can Saint Mary's remain Catholic without its founding order playing a prominent role in its governance? And if the order is to continue to play a prominent role what form will this role take? 
• The College should appoint a sister of the Holy Cross presi­dent of Saint Mary's. This woman could provide the essential link to the roots of the College and continue the heritage of the sisters and their mission. 
If the College cannot find a qualified sister to fill the position, a Catholic woman should assume the responsibility. A women as the leader of the College would be more able to address the needs and concerns of women at an all-women's college. 
As a Catholic lay woman, she could address the issues in the Church including women's ordination and birth control from a female perspective. As the nation's premier Catholic women's college, a strong female leader would provide a role model for Catholic women at Saint Mary'.s and at other colleges. 
• Saint Mary's must make service more visible on campus by organizing them under a common banner. Service plays a prominent role in the mission of the Catholic church, and should be a continuing goal of the College. 
By incorporating service in the curriculum and providing a center for service opportunities on campus the College will be emphasizing its Catholic identity. 
• In order to preserve Catholic character, the College must commit itself to maintaining a certain number of Catholic admin­istrators and faculty -especially in the theology department. 
Certainly diversity in religion is important in exposing students to a variety of philosophies. By applying a Catholic approach to the forums of business, science, the humanities, and society at large, a more universal comprehension can be achieved. 
It is wise for the College to address its Catholic identity as the sisters of the Holy Cross take a decreasing role. Preserving its heritage requires change that is decisive and forward-reaching. With so much at stake, there is no other option. 
Tomorrow: The Observer looks at social life at Saint Mary's. 
DOONESBURY 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Untimely loft checks entail major disruption 
Dear Editor: 
OntheSundayofthefinaleve·~~~~~~~~;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
of Junior Parents Weekend, the residents of Carroll Hall were given a rude surprise. After hearing for three days the glory of Notre Dame community, the house we live in was violated in an unprecedented way. 
We have been told that all rooms campus-wide were ..~i!!Rl'l!!~IIIIIII!!!.!l!!l~~~ll!!!!i!!~~lllii!!@ entered over the recent ~,...,.-~,....--.,..-.,.....,--...,r-:rr~~-r'
Christmas break, and surveyed by University housing officials. They found over one thousand rooms to be in violation of their housing policy. 
From this number, they have chosen to punish the fifty worst offenders. We have been told that 21 of the 23 rooms with lofts in our hall, or virtually all non-freshman rooms, are in violation of the University's housing policy regarding lofted beds. We were told that we have one week to remove all lofts or modify them to meet university standards, which have gone virtually unchecked and unenforced for the last 
twenty-five years. 
With midterms looming for all students in the next two weeks, our lofts help to not only maxi­
this will entail major disruption mize our space, but they are 
for all the residents of Carroll one of the things that mark our 
Hall as rooms are torn apart. 
dorm as unique. Now, after all 
Instead of waiting until years 
the talk of how special this 
end to implement the removal University is, action has been 
of all lofts, as may seem practi­taken to strip our home of one 
cal, they have chosen this 
of it's most useful and enjoy­
week, with three-fourths of the able elements. 
year already gone by, to demand compliance. 
JEFF GRABOWSKI 
If we do not meet the 
CHAD HARRISON 
University's demands, our 
MICHAEL ANGAIAK 
rooms will be dismantled, wood 
GREG NOWAK from our lofts will be thrown in 
JAKE MAY 
a dumpster, and we will be MANISH PATEL fined, and charged for this 
MATT JACHIM 
"service." 
JOE MONAHAN 
As residents of the smallest, 
JAKE RIEHM 
most unified dorm on campus, 
RAY MICALLETTI 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
STAN TUHOLSKI WILLIAM REDA DEWAYNE RICHARDSON JOHN KACEDEN SAM WATSON JOHN CEILLEY RON FONTENOT DINO BALLIVIERO KURT KREBS PETE BUONACCORSI RYAN O'LEARY BILL EDWARDS PHIL CULCASI TOM FRAIRE JOE BOLAND CHRIS DIAZ JIM CAFARELLA Carroll Hall 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 

Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Kevin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough  Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor.............................. Suzy Fry  Ad Design Manager ...................... Sreph Goldman  
Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager .............................. Parrick Barth  
Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters  OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych  Controller ..................... ; ................. Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Edi£or, Phow Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presem rhe views of the: authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  63 I-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  63I-4540  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  63!-454I  Day Editor/Production  63 I-5303  
Business Office  63I-53I3  Advertising  63 I -6900/8840  
Sports  63I-4543  Systems/OTS  63I-8839  
News/Photo  63I-5323  Office Manager  63I-747I  



ACC6-NT 
Thursday, February 24, 1994 page 9 
WHO WERE THE GOLD RUSH BRIDES1 'Quitters' tells poignant story of pioneer women 

By ANNE DELANEY introduction of each patch Accent Writer bringing with it new tales of birth and death, hardship and 
A simple yet intricate set of glory. stairs greets the viewer upon "It's a concept show, a lot of entering. Underneath it all is a fun to do," says assistant chore­cozy little above-ground orches­ographer Shayla Richards. tra pit where the five-piece en­"Probably every emotion is semble plays. displayed in kind of a 
time/space warp, making us 

The unique set of "Quilters" facfl .unrecognized realities of in the I!ttfe Theater of Mor~au the "past in the midst of today's Center for the Arts fits nicely mindset." with and enhances the extraor­"Quilters" was written by dinary story it supports. Molly Newman and Barbara 
Directed by Katie Sullivan, Damachek in 1982. The au­"Quilters" is made up of a cast thor of the book upon which the of nine Saint Mary's Notre two women base their play in­Dame women. terviewed some of the oldest 
The play has a circular women quilters in America. theme, beginning and ending The voices of these women, with the story of Sarah and her their actual words, are the daughters and what they call magic of the play. their "legacy of life" -their Sometimes we are taken into quilt. the women's diaries and at 
The play is structured other times we meet the author around this quilt, with the herself. 
Sullivan family teams up ;n 'Ouilters' 
By ANNE DELANEY past six weeks, moving hack to Accent Writer South Bend to help sculpt t}:).e tripartite role the actresS;¢$ 
For Katie Sullivan, "Quilters," play, ''?i . ·. ·..... .· \ the poignant musical being put ''It's· a tremendous amount o on at Saint Mary's this week­collaboration, juggling time, end is especially meaningful. and it asks a lot of the actors.'' 
Hers is a situation that ironi­said Katie. "Each (actress) cally goes right along with the plays 12-15 roles. and to bitl'l~ mother-daughter theme of the grate dancing, singing ahd play, as her mother, Barbara staging requires a lot .0 Sullivan, joins in the production comnu.t~~~ati~n," . . . . . ....... . of "Quilters" as musical direc* Sullivan is used ·to wor~ihg tor. with her parents. She attended 
"Who is more dependable the same university where her 
and trustworthy than your father· was a theater professor mother?" Katie Sullivan asked and played in many muaicals herself when looking for some­with him as director. one to take charge of the play's Now she has· the chance._ to music. "We needed to hire a work with her mother, who has 
· musical director, and she beM afundamental element to worked out perfectly." the musical, .and total, success 
of"Quilters." · ...

As it turns out. no one has rehearsed her part better than The musical play has 26 Barbara Sullivan. who has tricky songs with many parts, been involved in music but Sullivan and her troupe o throughout her life. piano, bass. flute. guitar, man­
She holds three degrees in dolin and violin have con~ 
music. has worked with choirs, quered their difficulty. and was part of a musical the­After ..Quilters,. closes. the ater team with her late hus­Sullivans can add a patch to band for years. their own quilt to commemo­
Having just retired from rate their legacy of ·acting srtc~ 
Eastern Ulinois University, she cesses. has given her free time for the 
The idea for the play came about when Newman audi­tioned for a play using an ex­cerpt from the book. 
Although she did not get the part, she was encouraged to shape the women's stories into a play of her own. 
With the addition of the musi­cal compositions of Damachek, the duo have created an ex­traordinary. pla"y about a time not often remembered, and cer­tainly not glorified. 
"('Quilters') is helpful in putting that era into perspec­tive," said Sullivan, the play's director. 
"The pettiness of today be­comes way overshadowed by the hardship of life on the prairie," explained Sullivan. 
"In our life of many-advan­tages, such as central heating, it is easy to ignore what those women and their families had to endure." 
The play is unique because it is told from the women's points of view, resulting in a broad display of life's elements. 
By writing the play from the women's perspectives, we are let in on the challenge of day­to-day survival. 
"I find it admirable, the strength and fortitude people had to keep going, heading west when life was challeng­ing," said Sullivan. 
"Families included sometimes twelve to sixteen children. Their biggest enemy was the weather, and simply surviving nature was their daily task." 
The quilts the women and their daughters produced are telling of the many events of their lives, especially the sur­vival of the weather, births, weddings and traveling. 
Each patch tells a different story. The quilt serves as both a family album and a rite of pas­
-
sage, and certainly a legacy to pass along to future genera­tions. 
The set, especially the back­drop, lets the viewer invest as much imagination as he or she wants into this intriguing pro­duction. 
The stage and technical crew, directed by scenographer Shaun Weller, have quite a bit of navigating to do with over 120 light cues, helping with costume changes and ensuring a smoothly-run production. 
The enlivening music and dramatic tales of admirable women and their families promises to be a real treat for the eye and the soul. 
Tickets for 'Quilters' are on sale at the Saint Mary's Box Office. There will be four show­ings in the Moreau Center for the Arts. Admission is $3 for students and $4 for adults. 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 24, 1994 
had closed within three, and virtue they possess, the Car­Ryan Hoover was eyeing an olina frosh certainly have come
Frosh Hoops
Nebraska 
open shot from behind the arc into their self-assured own. to tie it up. While the Carolina kids have
continued from page 16 continued from page 16 
The problem was the shot was found their niche, the Irish

upsets No. 
Montross and Final Four MVP not so open. Wallace came fly­freshmen are still struggling to game. A win on the road is as Donald Williams played more ing out from the paint, blocked get there. They are getting important at Notre Dame as it minutes. the shot, and threw it over his closer, though. is at Clemson."

10 Kansas 
One must remember that the head to Stackhouse while div­"I thought Marcus Hughes defending national champions ing out of bounds, leading to a played tonight like he be­Freshman Jerry Stackhouse 
played what Smith called his
Associated Press 

were returning four starting thunderous jam. Not the typi­longed," stated MacLeod. "He best game at North Carolina,seniors. However, there were cal freshman play. was not playing like a fresh­scoring 17 points including aEric Piatkowski scored 33 times when the elder statesmen One would think they feel the man." 
pair of acrobatic dunks. 
points and Nebraska sent No. 
were left standing and watch­pressure on the court. Accord­Hughes was all over the box 10 Kansas to its third straight ing as the freshmen took the ing to Montross, one who score, contributing six points, Slumping Eric Montross, theloss, 96-87 Wednesday night. 
game at Notre Dame. knows something about pres­five rebounds, and three blocks. 
Tar Heels' 7 -foot monster in
Nebraska (15-8, 5-6 Big 
Their talent was never in sure, they have adjusted well. However, when compared to the middle, ended his recentEight) led by 24 points at half­
doubt. Stackhouse was the Wallace, his accomplishments woes with a 23-point perfor­time. The Jayhawks (21-6, 6­most impressive, pouring in 17 "They are doing a real good don't shine quite as bright. mance, including 11-for-14 free 
5) rallied within 90-87 on 
points while gathering six re­job," he said. "They're not in He also needs help from his throws. 
Patrick Richey's layup with 32 
bounds. an easy position. They still classmates. Admore White, "We didn't think he could seconds left, but Piatkowski "Jerry had one of his best have problems now and again, while quick and adept at the shoot free throws the way he made four foul shots to keep did," MacLeod said of the Indi­games in a Carolina uniform," but overall they are doing "point" aspects of his guard po­anapolis native. 
the Cornhuskers ahead. 
stated Carolina coach Dean well." sition, must develop as a threat "He didn't look like he was in
Smith. In fact, they deal with the from the outside in order to be a slump to me. He looked likeKansas lost for the fourth MacLeod concurred. "He has heavy expectations in the place a needed factor in the offense. 
he was back home again in In­
-straight time at the Bob De­
great athletic power and speed, they are most comfortable, on Center Matt Gotsch played a diana."
vaney Center. 

and he'll only get better," he the court, having fun while gritty game, but he was pushed
Steve Woodberry led 
said. "His future is open­dominating opponents. As mercilessly off the boards by North Carolina didn't feel tooKansas with 16 points, all but 
ended." Stackhouse noted, "Tonight the stronger Carolina front­welcome for much of the night.
one in the second half. 
However, as a unit they was a lot of fun. It was good to court. But with the game on the line, showed more poise than is to get away from the conference the Tar Heels made the Irish 
No. 7 Kentucky 77, 
be expected of freshmen, espe­for a little bit and get a These players will develop in feel a long way from home. 

Tennessee 73 
cially in the pressure packed breather." time. But time is the qualifier, "There was a timeout with 
7:39 left and I said to our team,days as the tournament ap­Wallace was somewhat more something that has not limited 'It's our time, let's go,"' SmithSeventh-ranked Kentucky proaches. Mcinnis played a vocal about the enjoyable time their Carolina counterparts, said. "It was our time."
jeopardized its chances in 
controlled game at the point, he was having, earning him a who are making their presence
Wednesday night's game 
dishing out a team high four technical after a second half felt in the present. They are against Tennessee four days 
assists, while Wallace led the dunk. However, he was not the prime reason why success­NORTH CAROLINA (80): Reese 1·3 1·1 3. Sal· ago at the free throw line of 
vadori 0·1 O.Q 0, Montross 6·9 11-14 23, Williams
squad with three blocks. particularly contrite after­ful programs are able to thrive 
5-11 1-2 12, Calabria 0-1 6-6 6, Mcinnis 3·10 4-4
Vanderbilt's Memorial Gym­
But most importantly, they wards. from year to year, while those 12. Wallace 3-7 1-2 7. Stackhouse 7-12 3-5 17. nasium. 
TOTALS: 25-54 27-34 80.
were the one's who made the "I just yelled, like I do after who have fallen from the elite Some free-throw swapping 
big play that turned the mo­every dunk I do," he explained. are constantly playing from be­NOTRE DAME (71): Williams B-22 3-3 20, Hughesshenanigans in Nashville cost 
3-5 0-0 6, Joe Ross O.Q 0-0 0, Hoover 5-10 0-1 13,
mentum of the game. The Irish While subtlety may not be a hind. 
Justice 2·5 1-4 6, Gotsch 0·1 0·0 0, White 0-2 0-0
the Wildcats three of their 
0, Jon Ross 2-3 2-4 6, Kurowski 8-17 1-2 17,
SPORTS BRIEFS Cozen 1-2 0-0 3, Miller 0·1 0·0 0, Keaney 0-0 0-0 0. TOTALS: 29-68 7-14 71. 
best players, suspended by 
coach Rick Pitino from Wednesday's games. 
Halftlme-UNC 37, NO 31. 3-polnt goals­UNC 3-9 (Mcinnis 2-5, Williams 1-3, Calabria 0·1), NO 6-25 (Hoover 3·8, Williams 1-9, Justice 1-1, 
Cozen 1·2, White 0-2, Kurowski 0-2, Miller 0-1 ). Total fouls (fouled out)--UNC 15 (none). NO 27 
But the short-handed Wild­
cats overcame the absence of 
(Jon Ross. Joe .floss). Rel>ounds-IJNC 31 (Montross 11), NO 39 (Williams 6, Jon Ross 6). Asslsts-UNC 9 (Mcinnis 4), NO 14 (Justice 4). 
Travis Ford, Jared Prickett 
and Gimel Martinez to down 
Turnovers-UNC 10 (Williams 3), NO 12 (Hughes 
3). Attendance-11,418.
Tennessee 77-73. 


Classifieds 

NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks ND ave & Howard • 233-2342 /1 0-6 M-Sat 9·3 Sun 
Need a paper typed? I'll do it very quickly & cheaply! Susan x1285 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
Jean Jean the Typing Machine is BACK! Call 18858 for fast, friendly on-campus service. 
FOR SALE: RND. TRIP PLANE TICKET to Minneapolis for spring break -dirt cheap! JASON X1593 
ILOST & FOUND I 
DID YOU LEAVE YOUR KEYS IN 
THE OBSERVER OFFICE? WE 
HAVE A KEY RING WITH 4 KEYS 
ON IT WITH THE NUMBER 140 
ON 2 OF THEM. COME BY THE 
OBSERVER & ASK FOR SHIRLEY 
TO PICK THEM UP. 
Lost 

To the Person who took my !D's in Loftus: YOU DON'T LOOK LIKE MEl And if you're not a cutie from Wisconsin, you're putting the Cheeseheads to shame! Please call X3690 and will negotiate. I am going through Linebacker withdraw­all Sincerely, Backer Packer Fan. 
P.S. Maybe you should consider giving up your klepto urges for Lent! 
''LOST BIKE KEY" 
#on key is k8413 
please call 
X4022 

FOUND: Beagle, obnoxiuos and 
annoying, likes to chew on books 
and shXX on floor. Call Pooky: 
273-6163 Coat left in Career & Placement about 1 1/2 weeks ago. Call 631-5200, ask for Katie. 

LOST: BROWN BARN JACKET @ McCormick's Thur. nile with my life in it...please return, no ???s 
MOLLY 273-6591 

LOST: oval-rimmed glasses in a blue case. Small reward -call John @ 4-1722. 

WANTED 

ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­MENT-fisheries. Many earn $2000+/mo. in canneries or $3000­$6000+/mo. on fishing vessels. Many employers provide benefits. No exp. necessary! For more info call: 1·206-545-4155 ext. A5584 
RIDE needed for 2 to St. Louis for Spring Break. Call Christian @ 1226 
Need ride to/from Baltimore area for 2-spring break. Will help w/gas, 
tolls.Call 634-2849!!! 
WANTED: 

HELP WANTED Loading trucks, 
weekdays 4-7PM, 2-5 days a week 
depending on your schedule. 

Requires some heavy lifting. Get 
your exercise & earn a paycheck at 
the same time. 287-2316 ask for 
Mark 

Lift offered to Miami and return for Spring Break. Contact Rod at 634 ­4542. 
Wanted: 

A Used Car in good condition. 
Call4·2029. 

AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 
NEEDED: SPRING BREAK RIDE to NY for 2 NYC, Newburgh, Mahwah, 
Poughkeepsie pre!. 
Will help$. Please call Brian or Jason x 1130 
Need a Ride to Philly for Spring Break? Call Susan @ 284-5308 
Need Ride to Purdue this weekend. Courtney 2470 
going back to Minnesota over break? I need a ride! $$ for gas, tolls. call kory x3040 
PLEASE!! Ride needed for 2 to Florida Spring Break Call Mark x4018 
Need ride to St. Louis for Spring Break. Will help with driving and gas. Call Mary Kay X4594 
Female roomate (or roomates if you don't mind sharing a room) needed for a Castle Point apart­ment. First semester only! If interested, call Val at 271 ° 7817 

FOR RENT 
1 , 2 & 3 BEDROOM HOMES FOR 
RENT. NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM: $225. MO., 2 BDRM: $325. MO. 
AVAIL. NOW. GILLIS PROPER­
TIES 272-6306 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES· ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153 
EX·ND STAFFER & SPOUSE DESIRE TO RENT FURNISHED APARTMENT FOR THE SUMMER. NON-SMOKERS. NO PETS. WRITE OR PHONE 135 LAKE­VIEW DR., MULBERRY, FL 33860 OR PHONE (813)425·4404. 
2·5 BEDROOM HOMES 
SECURITY SYSTEM ALL APPLIANCES 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 2322595 THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ROOM NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
3 BR. 2 Bath, Frplace, Full base­ment, 2 car garage, Walk to NO, $900/mo. Evenings: 616-471-7172 
SPRING BREAK TIME SHARE Orlando, Florida $700 -sleeps 8 bars, pools, lake 5 minutes from Disney call X2348 or X4508 
APT NEAR CAMPUS! Hickory Village 180/mo util pd, roommates Summer + 94-95 yr MUST SEE! 273-8369 


FOR SALE 
2 tix to PEARL JAM concert Mar 22 -Cleveland will take best offer. Mike X 4116 
MACINTOSH CLASSIC II 4/80, 2 MB RAM (EXPANDABLE TO 10). LIKE NEW. $550. 277-1463. 

TICKETS 
FOR SALE·2 b-ball tix for Sat's game vs LOUISVILLE! Call Katy x3850 
FOR SALE -1 Ticket to Los Angeles for Spring Break. Call Chris at x4-1069. 


PERSONAL 
ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure couple longs for a newborn to join our family. Please call Nancy and Jerry 1-800·272-581 0. 

THE PRINCETON REVIEW WANTS YOU! Do you have high test scores? Are you energetic/dynamic? Can you communicate well? Want a fun part­time job? We're here on campus and have opportunities for part-time teaching positions. Pay starts at $11 an hour; no teaching experience required. Call 
(800) 480-PREP for more informa· lion. 
Dismas is a New Beginning Dismas is Family Dismas is Community Dismas is for Dave McMahon Dismas is for You Dismas is in the Library Concourse Thurs 9-12 a.m. and Sun. 5-8 p.m. 
BERNICE, THANK YOU FOR 21 GREAT YEARS!II!!!!!!I!IIII!III 
LOVE, BADIN HALL 
But soft, what light from yonder 
window breaks? It is the east and Juliet is the sun ...... 
SUMMER JOBS • ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786· 8373 
4-year·old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help each other. Medllegal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 
1-800-864-8385. 
Attention ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club Members: No class at Stepan this Thursday! We are going to Dan O'Day'sl Meet altha main circle at 
8:00. Cues? Call Laurie 4·3490, Karen 4-2110, or Daniella 284­4160. 
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
Need Spring Break Cash?? 
1% interest loans $10·$250 
Stop by the Morrissey Loan Fund next to Info. Desk in Lafortune Mon.-Fri. 11:30-12:30 
Attention: 'will be closed Fri., March 4 'last day for Seniors to borrow is 
March 1 
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
Need ride to UW-Madison for spg. brk. Will pay tolls, gas ·Kevin (x3100) 
Sophomores!! 
Don't forget the Class dinner this Thursday at Bruno's. 
All you can eat and drink for only $4.001! 
Come for friends and fun. 
Also watch for the upcoming Sophomore Retreat. 
Sponsored by Sophomore Class. 
HEY MARTEN! How about a thank you card next time ... instead of abusing the sys­tem!! 
NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH FOR SPRING BREAK·WILL PAY! CALL ELIZABETH 284-4320 
Correction: Jackie is cute and her phone number is ... We regret the error. 
YEAH GUBI'S!! 
Thursday, February 24, 1994 The Observer • BASEBALL 
Vaughn no fluke, ready for Red Sox 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press 
FORT MYERS, Fla. 

Mo Vaughn got his chance last season to prove he be­longed in the major leagues. This year, he can show that his success in 1993 was no fluke. 
Vaughn became Boston's power hitter last season with 29 homers, 101 RBis and a .297 average. 
He was ninth in the American League with a slugging per­centage of .509. 
But Vaughn is not impressed by that success, and says it just increases the pressure on him this season. 
"You've got to put up num­bers four or five or six or seven years in a row to be, in my eyes, considered a player," he said. "Not one year does a career make. 
"I just want to prove to myself that I can go in and do this thing year in and year out. It's probably going to be even worse than it was last year ­there are no excuses for me now, because I've done it once." 
Vaughn had a miserable rookie year in 1992, batting just .234 and struggling de­fensively at first base. He went to spring training last year without a definite spot in the Red Sox lineup. 
But he beat out Carlos Quintana for the first base job by being Boston's top hitter during the spring, and contin­ued his torrid batting into the regular season -hitting .417 in his first 20 games. 
Vaughn hit .362, with eight homers and 27 RBis, as the Red Sox went 20-7 in July and tem­porarily jumped into the AL East race. He also became much better defensively in 1993, though he still led American League first basemen with 16 errors. 
Manager Butch Hobson said he expects similar offensive output from Vaughn this sea­son, as well as continued improvement on defense. Vaughn practices with an undersized glove to improve his fielding. 

"I look for him to be one of the outstanding first basemen in the American League before he's through," Hobson said. "Mo is just going to pick up (offensively) where he left off last year." 
Vaughn said he has not for­gotten "the trials and tribula­tions of 1992," and worked hard in the offseason to make sure he doesn't revert to the form of his frustrating rookie year. 
"I have a tremendous amount to prove to myself and to prove to people," he said. "I take the game personally, I don't take it on a professional level or a business level." 
Vaughn, 26, is frustrated that he has not yet agreed on a 1994 contract with the Red Sox, and hopes that situation can be resolved within days. 
·.• •. •... .• .· . ···•·· ••.•••• / > .•• . .••.. .· .·.. .•·. .••. 





The Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
Assistant Viewpoint Editors Viewpoint Copy Editors 
Applicants for both positions should have a strong interest in journalism, editing skills and a knowledge of page design. Please submit a resume and a 1-2 page personal statement to 
•.•..•.•..·•.• •.······················:.•. ;.••.•. •.. 1. 
Suzy Fry by 4pm Friday, February 25, 1994. For additional ..<<>••·•·.······••< ..........•....>.. : ...·•· .i. . >...
·····.Theatre/•· · ··· .• ··· ··· ·· · ........................ .. ·..· ·.•. ··•. · ...•.·•.·.··•·..•···.• .. .. ·· ··.. ·.· ·:..•.::.. ::•. •.. .·.·.·.·,·.·.··.·····.···········.·····
. . . ........ ······· ··· · ········ .........,. •· · ... ·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.··.·· • ..·.·.·· :.::····· .. ·.· ..·.·.·.••.·.·•·.·•.• ·.•.... ·..•...•...·:·..· ··..•...·: ·· .• ·.•....•.·•·.·.•.::.. ·•....... ..• ·•.·:.·.. ·.•.. .. ··:....·.·.::···.·.·..·:...·.·.·.·.·.··.•.·,::.: ·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•············••••••••••>···::::·•....>· 
information contact Suiy at 631-4541 
... . .<··:: :::.::::>:\:_::::·::::.:::.: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·.;.;. ::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::;:::}~:~:::;:}}}}~\\ :':' ·.···:· ':: :'.':'.':':':':':"·>>>>:.:-:<:::·:·:·. _::::::::·:<·:·:: 


Join us in closing out a month long celebration ofAfrican American History by entering our drawing for selected titles by renowned author Maya Angelou 
Drawing will be held on the second floor in the Book Department (see store for details) 

The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE (on the campus) 
open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
page 12 The Observer • OLYMPICS 

Harding has lackluster performance 
By WENDY E. lANE Associated Press 
HAMAR, Norway Nobody booed, and she didn't fall. She didn't do anything spec­tacular, either. 
Yes, Tonya Harding did what she came to do today -skate at the Olympics. She not only skated, she completed her short program without hitting the ice, something she hadn't done in a week of practices. 
But after all Harding went through to get to Norway, her time on the ice was a bit anti­climactic. 
The only thing resembling fireworks was the design on her dress, and she made no 
ure skating contest in Olympic history. 
Finally, the millions of viewers and readers who have followed the Tonya Harding-Nancy Kerrigan saga, heard about Ukrainian Oksana Baiul's orphan-to-champion story and seen those amazing jumps by Surya Bonaly of France got a chance to see how they put it together under the pressure of competition. 
Two-time gold medalist Katarina Witt skated fourth and was the early highlight, over­shadowing Harding, who seemed tentative in her skating. Then Bonaly, the European champion, skated a nearly flawless routine and moved into first place. 

Dressed in the same red-se­quined halter top outfit she wore during last month's U.S. championships, Harding stepped on the ice to enthusias­tic applause and more than a dozen American flags waving. 
"There was a lot of support out there, and it felt great," Harding said. 
She opened her two-minute, 40-second program with a triple lutz-double toe loop com­bination, but had to step be­tween the jumps to keep her balance. That would result in a deduction by the judges. 
"I thought it (the lutz) was fine," she said. "You can't be perfect every time." 
emotional display during or 
Harding stood fourth before after her skate. 
the final six skaters, including"I was happy with it," she 
Kerrigan and world championsaid afterwards. ''I'm happy 
Baiul, took their turns. with the performance." 
Harding, who was implicatedAfter all the headlines and 
by her ex-husband in the club­hype, Harding was just another 
bing attack on Kerrigan and 





SENIORS

skater. 
went to court to keep her placeIt was up to Nancy, Surya, 
on the Olympic team, was Oksana, Katarina and the rest 

eighth in the 27-woman field. of the gang to put the spice in 
SEE YOU TOMORROW
Kerrigan was scheduled for 

the most feverishly awaited fig­26th. 
~~~ 

~fYlOC< 
• 
The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
Join us for a fun-filled afternoon reading ofthe popular Berenstain Bears titles ­"DON'T POLLUTE" and "LEARN ABOUT STRANGERS" 
1he reading will be held from 3:30p.m. -4:30p.m. Friday, February 25th, in the Book Department located on the 2nd floor of 1be Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
(on the campus) phone (219) 631-5324 





} .. 
..
" 
~----~~------------~-~--~-------­
Thursday, February 24, 1994 The Observer • OLYMPICS page 13 
USA Hockey falls to -­
Five Blair's favorite number 
By ALAN ROBINSON enough. her gold-medal speed. For Ye,
Finland, medal bid ends 
Associated Press "Maybe in time I'll realize bronze in 1:20.22 was good, By HOWARD ULMAN longest stretch ever, since win­what I've done," Blair said but not good enough. Associated Press ning gold in 1980. HAMAR, Norway Wednesday after winning her "I think maybe that if I don't 
"We never got rolling offen­Gimme five. second straight Olympic speed­get hurt I will set world 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway sively in this tournament except That's five -count 'em, five skating 1,000-meter gold records," she said. "I wish I 
The Americans worked six for our game against Italy," -gold medals around Bonnie medal. "All I know is I loved could get more gold. Bonnie, months, but will go home with­U.S. coach Tim Taylor said. Blair's neck. Five golden trib­skating and loved competing." she has so many gold medals." out an Olympic hockey medal. "We had our moments for bril­utes to greatness. And loved winning-possibly, How many? Blair has one The Finns have won six games, liance and we had our mo­More golds than Dick Button more than any American more than sprinter Evelynand look almost unstoppable. ments of pressure." or Brian Boitano, Dorothy female athlete of our time. Ashford, swimmer Janet Evans 
Finland dominated the United While Canada and Finland Hamill or Peggy Fleming, Mary "I think she will be remem­and diver Pat McCormick, four­
States like they have dominated improved with late roster Lou Retton or Wilma Rudolph bered as the greatest women's time gold medalists who were every other opponent, winning changes, Taylor stuck by his ever won. speedskating sprinter ever, one tied for the lead among U.S. 6-1 Wednesday and moving word and made few additions It's five more golds than of our greatest athletes ever," women Olympians.
into Friday's semifinals against to the group he assembled last Nancy Kerrigan or Tonya U.S. coach Nick Thometz said. Among all U.S. Winter Canada. August in Connecticut for their Harding will likely ever win. "Bonnie just does not like to Olympians, Blair's six medals Canada beat the Czech Re­She's not colorful, not con­
first practice. lose." -she also took bronze in the public 3-2 in overtime, while "In the United States, there troversial, not conversational. Maybe that's why she hardly 1,000 in 1988-are one more 
Sweden played Germany and are not a lot of players avail­She's not a quote machine who ever does. than Eric Heiden, who won all Slovakia faced Russia in later able to us, certainly not as loves to hear herself talk and Blair won the way she almost five men's speedsKating races quarterfinals. many as some other countries see her words in print. She's so always wins -easily, with little in 1980. 
Finland was seeded only sev­have," he said. much the All-American Girl, flair, little flash, just all dash. "There goes another record," 
enth when the tournament The United States begins con­she'd probably have to pay to She skated her best time in six Heiden said. began. But it is 6-0 and has solation play Thursday against be on "Inside Edition" or years-one minute, 18.74 sec­The only Winter Olympians to outscored its foes 31-5. Only the Czechs and can finish no "Hard Copy" rather than the onds -to defeat silver medalist win more gold medals than 
the United States, with 28 higher than fifth. It came in other way around. Anke Baier of Germany by 1.38 Blair are Lydia Skoblikova of shots, took more than 14 fourth in 1992 when it lost the So, then, what exactly is seconds, the largest margin in the Soviet Union, who won six against them. bronze medal game to Bonnie Blair? Only the greatest Olympic history. speedskating golds in 1960 and 
The Americans are 1-2-3, Czechoslovakia. U.S. female Olympian ever, the The bronze went to old rival '64, and cross country skier beating only a weak Italian Finland got four power-play greatest U.S. Winter Olympian Ye Qiaobo, who beat Blair in Lyubov Egorova of Russia, who team 7-1. They have gone 14 goals and one shorthanded ever. the 1993 world championships has three golds this year and 
years without a medal. their goal. And to her, that's plenty good only to injure a knee and lose six for her career. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Missed Opportunities 
I confess to almighty God, and to you, my brothers and sisters, that I have sinned through my own fault in my thoughts and in my words, in what I have done, and IN WHAT I HAVE FAILED TO DO; ... 

For the longest time I thought of life and its moral challenge as a struggle between doing good and doing evil. The world was full of heroes and villains, and the point of life was to be a hero and defeat all those villains. I was like a high school sophomore who watches the seniors and thinks they are all so big and so together and oh so very cool. Later when the lowly sophomore becomes a senior himself, he can't figure out why he still feels so small, and afraid, and unprepared for greatness. The heroes, and my own heroic self-image, eventually lost a bit of glamour and glow. 
The villains too had changed. Most folks doing things I had been taught were sinful looked equally small. Hurt, unreconciled, angry and afraid -they lashed out at life in revenge, sometimes feeling pain just because it was better than feeling nothing at all. My villains didn't so much need to be defeated, they needed to be healed. 
These days, after four years on the relatively peaceful campuses of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, I don't much feel a clear-headed hatred for the doing and doers of evil anymore. In its place I find a deep and growing sadness about the many ways that we choose not to do all the good that we could. I feel the pain of our "missed opportunities." 
The struggle of life now seems less the struggle between good and bad, and more the struggle between trust and fear. Trust would make us free, invite us to take risks, and cause us to seek out the other, especially the wounded and the weak. Fear makes us hide from the truth and remain unreconciled and protected in our preconceptions. Trust would allow us to change. Fear keeps us the same. 
Year after year, if you go to a discussion on an issue like cultural diversity, you hear someone immediately say "why do all those students always sit together?" The answer is always that "these are our friends, but why don't you sit down?" Fear says don't even try to move into a new group. A bit of trust would say go 
ahead, admit your nervousness, and see what happens if you say hello. To be 
afraid to try and bring down a boundary is to miss an opportunity for growth 
and understanding. 
Year after year, the gay and lesbian students look for some signal of acceptance and care. Some years it is noisy, other years not so much so. Relations with the Administration remain steadfastly icy and distant. 
The PLO and the Israelis do better. The inability to reconcile pedagogical and pastoral concerns brings pain and sadness of missed opportunity, at least to me. Right now with the advent of the Names Project Memorial Quilt this weekend, questions and comments are back in the public eye. The Quilt is not really about homosexuality, it's about a disease, and the mourning of the dead. I saw many more people die of this plague through heterosexual transmission in East Africa than we have witnessed here in the U.S., where it is often seen as a strictly gay disease. In fact, there are at least three Notre Dame alumni with panels in the small number of sections of the Quilt that will be in Stepan Center this weekend. Perhaps in their memory, some new opportunity could be sought for healing this unreconciled tension on our campus. 
For all of us, there are so many ways fear keeps us from doing the good we should. To speak to a friend about a problem, to travel to a strange country, to ask a companion for forgiveness, to call up somebody for a date, to change majors when the old one is boring all these things require trust, and the defeat of fear, if the opportunity for growth is tc'e there. 
In the self-examinations of Lent, maybe ~ can spend a little extra time calling for the growth of wisdom and courage in each of us, that we might enjoy the sweet taste of freedom and avoid the sadness and pain of missed opportunities. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. February 26  5:00p.m.  Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C.  
Sun. February 20  10:00 a.m.  Rev. Terence Linton, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C.  

SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING Genesis 22: 1~2, 9, 10~13, 15~18 2ND READING Romans 8: 31~34 GosPEL Mark 9: 2~10 

\ . ' • ' 

-------------~-------------­
page 14 
The Observer· SPORTS 




Irish to face Titans for first 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will shoot for its second straight win tonight, as they travel to beautiful Detroit to take on the Titans of Detroit Mercy. 
The Titans have been rolling out wins like new Ford Explor­ers off the Detroit assembly lines lately, having won five straight to move to 7-2 in the Midwestern Collegiate Confer­ence, and in doing so have setup a crucial matchup with the Irish, who are also 7-2 in MCC play. 
The Titans are led by fresh­man guard Autumn Rademacher, who is averaging 
14.8 points per game. While Autumn's shots have fallen like leaves all season, she is by no means the lone threat that De­troit Mercy possesses. 
Four of the Titan starters are averaging in double figures in scoring, and Amira Danfourth's 
14.5 points per game put her 
right behind Rademacher. Titan freshman Michelle De-

Barkley in court for hitting fan 
By HENRY STERN 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
Charles Barkley was in court Wednesday to defend himself against charges that he hit a fan at Meadowlands Arena af­ter a game last season. 
Dennis McKeever, 30, of Yonkers, N.Y., testified in Mu­nicipal Court that the Phoenix star struck him in the face with the back of his hand after the Suns defeated the New Jersey Nets 105-100 on Dec. 8, 1992. 
McKeever, a New York City firefighter, said he extended his hand to tell Barkley "nice game," but the 6-foot-6 for­ward hit him as he left the court following a postgame in­terview. Barkley had 34 points and 13 rebounds in the game. 
He said Barkley told him "fans like you ruin it for the other fans" before striking him. 

Haan is the main threat on the boards, averaging 7.7 rebounds per game while contributing 
11.3 points each outing. Faith Cyr is also a tough player, com­ing into tonight's game averag­ing 12.2 points and 6.6 rebounds per contest. 
The Irish, who are coming off a 69-54 road win against Louisville, will be led by the hot hand of freshman miracle­worker Beth Morgan, who leads the team in scoring at 
17.3 points per game. 
Morgan has scored 20 or more points in the past five games, and is on her way to becoming only the third fresh­man-in Notre Dame history to lead the team in scoring. 
Junior forward Letitia Bowen continues to perform well for the Irish, averaging 10.6 points per game to go along with a Barkley-esque 9.8 rebounds a game. 
Senior center Tootie Jones has also put together a quietly successful season for the 17-6 Irish, averaging 9.3 points while grabbing six rebounds per outing. 
McKeever said he did not know why Barkley addressed him, but a friend of McKeev­er's, James McCaffery, testified that perhaps Barkley was yelling at him. McCaffery said he had been yelling at the play­er about his bald head and also telling him to sign some auto­graphs for fans. 
"I said, 'What are you taking about,"' McKeever said. "He said 'Let's go into the tunnel so I can't be sued. 
"He acted like he was leaving and he turned around and whacked me," said McKeever, who has a civil lawsuit pending against Barkley in Superior Court. "It hurt. I was in bad pain. I've never been hit like that before." 
He said the blow knocked him down, caused his nose to swell and gave him a severe headache. 
Under cross-examination from Barkley's attorney, Tom Sullivan, McKeever said he had 
At first glance it may appear that all Notre Dame has to do to win is show up. That is, if his­tory is any kind of barometer. 
The Irish have won 13 straight against the Titans, and have not lost to Detroit Mercy since a 94-86 road loss during the 1986-87 season. 
The Irish are 7-2 all-time against the Titans at Detroit, with the last three contests there being won by a margin of 
14.3 points. 
This is basketball, not history class, though, and the Irish will certainly need a strong effort in order to claim a victory over the no doubt vengeful Titans. 
Detroit will gain possession of first place in the MCC with a victory, and the Irish would prefer to continue to enjoy the view from the top rather than be stuck chasing after the Titans. 
Following tonight's matchup, the Irish will be left with only two regular season games be­fore the start of the MCC tour­nament on March 5. Both those games are also MCC matchups, and may prove critical in estab­


three or four beers during the game, but denied he was  WANTED:  
drh VIDEOS OF YOUR SPRING BREAK/ROAD­ 
unk. He also denied that he ad called for a lawyer while he was on the ground or  TRIPS FOR CLASS PROJECT. REWARD IF  
bragged that Barkley had hit him.  FOOTAGE IS USED.  
NBA and arena security of­cials testified that McKeever  FOR MORE INFO CALL :  
ppeared drunk and had been lling obscenities at Barkley  KRISTEN @ 4-2377 OR  
fiayeduring the interview. They said  MARYBETH@ 4-2735 BY  
McKeever had put his hand near Barkley's face before  WED. MARCH 2.  
Barkley knocked it away.  
:t~ ~ Speaks for Itself'¢~ CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 9 Month ­10 Month ­12 Month Leases FURNISHED APARTMENTS, ALL UTILITIES COVERED, CENTRAL AIR Wide open spaces, well appointed apartments. Indoor Pool & Jacuzzi. Sports activity area. Weight machine, 24 Hour Laundry. STUDENT ACCOMODATION AND CARE AT AFFORDABLE PRICES. WE TAKE SECVRI1Y AND SAFE1Y SERIOUSLY. Visit Our Office and Meet Our Staff Call Dorene NOW 272--1441  


~~~~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Thursday, February 24, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER 
KIDS THAf WIU 13£ ~RTI\INE.RS 
I<IDs 1\\AI WILL 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
JAY HOSLER 
St Sc.rENnSIS 

!<lOS THAT WILL 13t ADMINIS~ 



BILL WATIERSON 

c.::~=-=-2.!:..2'1!:.___________J 
DAVE KELLETI 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
LEn E~s ~Av<_ 1'>1< Ou~ An EI"Tt ON i>IE FAL T 
l::lo.vE ~£ LL E TI WAs 
Om.-rrED ~fz-PM Ii-I£ '9U> 
"""Do6BooK -­
__j ·."-__.---/ So A~ A 
/_ ·_:;,f>uBLtC ~SER.VtC.E iJ£ / C" f.\,s 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Purple Heart, e.g.
1 Tiller's place 30 "Low bridge! 
4 Flop's opposite 
Everyone 9 Merchant R. H. down!" canal 
31 Officeholders 13 Money maker 
32 Circle of angels 14 Dessert bean 33 Belief system 15 Newton 35 Is meticulous, 
knighted in with 53-Across 1705 
41 Abbr. in car ads 17 Keg contents 
42 Many millennia 18 "Help!" star 
43 Word in an obit 191959 Ritchie 44 Garroway of Valens hit 50's TV 
20 Behave 47 ltty-bitty map 23 Multicolored 49 "Interview With 24-Palmas, the Vampire" 
Spain author 25 On an errand, 50 E.T.'s ship maybe 51 "Life-­26 Mortgage beach" interest 52 Alta. neighbor 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
53 See 35-Across 59 Kind of wave 60 Scrub a tub, 
maybe 61 Bolivian export 62 Triangular treat 63 Be a ham 64 It's in the bag 65 NASA green 
lights 66 Make current 67 Catching of 
thoughtwaves 
DOWN 
1 First bone donor 2 Tagalog speaker 3 Most 
microscopic 4 Seafood dish 5 Water artery &An 
embarrassing problem to face? 
7 Is in a slump a Celebration 9 The original 
Goldfinger? 10 "Unto us-is given" 11 0 penn ess 
Habana 
one 
27 Lack of oomph 
·1 ~Al S 
"[">AvE? 


ANt> l.At:otE'>, lu ·, keEP .T~<o,..(. CAces (omoNC, /( 

28 Edifice extension 29 Spoils, with "on" 30 Trio of mommies? 32 Chance 34 Family nickname 36 Equal a bet 37 Ground-breaker 
38 Sweet liqueur 39 Striped apparel, 
often 

40 Heart of Billy 51 Sailors' keys Williams 52 Litter 44 Heating pipes 54 Went to the bottom
45"0utof-" 
55 Ne plus ultra 46Spelling 56 Diving bird exercise? 

57 Guitar's 

48 Gamal of Egypt 
ancestor 49 Fan noise 58 Piece of cake 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"What a find, Ms. Dinkins! ... It's Mailman, all right­but remarkably, this specimen is fully intact, with his Canus nipponicus still attached!" 
OF INTEREST 





The Acoustic Cafe 
This Week's Featured Artist is Katharsis: 9pm to 1 0 Open mike from 1 0 pm to 1am Free Popcorn Free Coffee 
Thursday Night in the Huddle 


North by Northwest 
Starring Cary Grant 
Thursday , Feb 24 in the Montgomery Theatre Showing at 7:30 and 10:30 
Admission $1 
..., 




North Carolina squeaks by fiesty Irish, 80-71 
Inside strength and talent to much for Irish 
By JASON KELLY we couldn't take advantage of coach Dean Smith said. "But he Associate Sports Editor the technical situation," Irish got loose early in the second coach John MacLeod said. half." 
They came in waves, two or "That turnover seemed to And he got lost late in the three at a time, taking turns break our back." half. firing at a Notre Dame team Notre Dame bent but didn't Despite his offensive absence, that just wouldn't die. break at the end of the first Notre Dame hung around 
It's hard to believe that No. 4 half, falling behind by six. That thanks to the scrappy play of North Carolina used just eight deficit disappeared early in the sophomore Keith Kurowski. players in Wednesday's 80-71 second half. He scored 17 points, includ­win. Ryan Hoover hit a pair of 3-ing a spinning off-balance 
Its bench seemed bottomless. pointers to give the Irish a 53-jumper to pull the Irish to with­
But a revolving door of five 52 lead with 11:49 remaining. in one with less than five min­starters and three freshmen He caught a finger in the eye utes left. was enough to wear down the in the first half and complained But the opportunistic Tar Irish, who stretched another of blurred vision at halftime. Heels' took advantage of some top ten team to the limit. "His 3-pointers indicated he late Irish mistakes and made 
They made pests of them­was probably refocusing," their free throws down the selves again, trailing just 64-61 MacLeod joked. stretch. with less than five minutes re­Monty Williams was one Irish "Notre Dame was more ready maining. player who didn't get too many than we were at the begin­
Notre Dame had a chance to good looks at the basket, finish­ning." Smith said, shrugging off move ahead after a technical ing with a team-high 20 points the idea of a letdown in his foul on the Tar Heels' Rasheed on just 8-for-22 shooting. team's only non-conference Wallace with 4:11 left. After scoring 10 points in the game this month. 
But, a missed free throw and first five minutes of the ·second "We came in like we would a turnover later, North half, he managed just two more have if we we're playing an Carolina began a 7-0 run to points the rest of the way. (Atlantic Coast Conference) The ObseiVer/Jake Peters 
swat the pests away. "I though we did a decent job Despite his usual strong game, Monty Williams and the Irish were "It started to slip away when on Monty," North Carolina. see HOOPS I page 10 unable to pull off the upset over North Carolina. 

Super freshmen are ready for the prime time 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR ments of this talented group lowing last night's perfor­Assistant Sports Editor even more impressive is the mance, it is safe to say that fact that they play with the ma­they have arrived. 
The transcripts in the Office turity of seniors. "North Carolina is deeper, of the Registrar in Chapel Hill The credentials of this group stronger, and more experi­read 'Class of 1997.' Don't be were impeccable before joining enced than last year," noted fooled by it. the Tar Heels this season, so Irish head coach John 
The three prominent mem­much so that senior Pat Sulli­MacLeod. "Bringing those bers of the North Carolina class van, a starter on last year's na­three freshmen off the the of '97, Rasheed Wallace, Jerry tional championship team, vol­bench gives them a pretty Stackhouse, and Jeff Mcinnis, untarily redshirted himself for strong group.'' lived up to their billing as the fear that he would not receive Technically, they are rele­best freshmen class in the enough quality minutes given gated to watching the tip from country last night, scorching the influx of talent. comfortable seats on the the Notre Dame defense for 20 The only question surround­bench, but in reality, only of their team's 43 second half ing the newcomers was how potential lottery pick Eric points. long it would take them to ad­
What makes the accomplish-just to the college game. Fol-see FROSH I page 10 

Resilient Irish ready for Spartans 
By TIM SHERMAN breaks, but we're going to try among the league leaders in Sports W rirer and make our own." nearly every category and is the As for the confidence level of final line of defense that allows 
How important can one win team, it is, surprisingly, rela­just over three goals per con­be in a season of over 3 5 tively sound, according to test. games? Schafer. "They're a funny team," com­
If you have lost your last six "We're a resilient bunch. We mented Schafer. "They've got­games and are in danger of know we can only go out and ten blown out 11-1 and then dropping even further in the do our best and we've done turned around and beaten standings, the answer is simple. that. You just can't beat your­Michigan. We've had some 
Vitally important. self. They are still fighting, and good games with them, plus, 
The Notre Dame hockey team sooner or later, we'll win some it's a home game." faces off against 5th ranked games." Earlier this season, Notre Michigan State at 7 pm tonight The task will not be easy by Dame faced Michigan State in a in the JACC. -any means, as the Spartans home and home series. The 
For the Irish, with the start of boast a solid 18-9-4 mark and Spartans took the first game at the postseason just three weeks have beaten top-ranked Michi­Munn Arena 3-1, but the Irish away, a reversal of the losing gan twice this season. returned home and managed a trend is necessary immediately. Michigan State is strong all 1-1 tie. The Irish cannot afford to drop around. Left wingers Steve At this point, a point would be many more games if they are to Guolla and Rem Murray and nice, but the Irish are looking receive a reasonable seed in center Anson Carter are among for the win. the CCHA playoffs. the league's top seven scorers. "The necessary ingredients 
"Obviously, we don't want to This dangerous trio has com­are to have the goaltender drop any further," said coach bined for 53 goals, more than (Greg Louder) on top of his Ric Schafer. "Our fate is in our half the total of the entire Irish game, to score more than three own hands. We need some squad. goals, and to play top-notch points but we just have to On the other side of the red defense," continued Schafer. 
The ObseiVer/ Brian McDonough 

worry about playing good hock­line, goalie Mike Buzak leads a "We've had our moments. Now 
Jamie Morshead and the Irish will try to reverse their losing streak with 

ey. It'd be nice to get the stifling defense. Buzak is we want to start making noise." 
a win over 5th ranked Michigan State tonight. 
Inside SPORTS 




College Basketball 
College Basketball 
Women's Hoops 
Steve Woodberry and the 
Letitia Bowen and the
Despite missing three 
No. 10 Kansas Jayhawks 
Irish will face Detroit 
key players, Rodrick 
were shocked by 
Mercy in a key MCC
Rhodes and the Wildcats 
Nebraska last night. 
game tonight. 
beat Tennessee. 
see page 10 
see page 14 
see page 10 

... 







