
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Security incidents increase concern for safety 
By LIZ FORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
An attempted theft involving a Saint Mary's student was re­ported to Notre Dame Security last night, according to Assistant Director of Security Charles Hurley. 
At about 7:25 p.m. on Monday, the student was walk­ing on the side of the Galvin Life Science Center when a man on a bicycle passed her and attempted to grab her necklace, Hurley said. The man missed the necklace and con­tinued riding north without stopping. 
The suspect was described as a dark-complected white male in his late 20's to early 30's. He was wearing a blue hooded sweatshirt and blue sweat­pants. The hood of the sweat­shirt, also blue, was up and tied around his face. 
"This is the first time this type of incident has happened on central campus," Hurley added. 
In other security news, an area resident was arrested on campus last weekend on mul­tiple charges after an incident involving a student, according to Hurley. 
The man, a 44-year-old South Bend resident, was charged with public intoxication and battery after allegedly grabbing a female student and entering a dorm, Hurley said. 
The incident occurred at about 9:20 p.m. on Friday out­side of Pasquerilla East. A fe­male PE resident was outside talking with two other students when they were approached by 
see ATTACKS I page 4 


Mid-term break 
Farley sophomore Missy Ehrmen and Alumni junior Sean Dougherty take a break from studying for their mid-term exams to enjoy an autumn day on South Quad. 

Political ideas easier for youths to discern 
Off-campus students address crime, attacks 
By LIZ FORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Communication and common sense. 
"It all comes down to those two, doesn't it?" asked Off­campus Co-President Matthew Reh at Monday night's Northeast Neighborhood Public Safety Committee meeting. 
He was referring to the three incidents last week involving three assaults on female Notre Dame students walking in the area of the 500 and 600 blocks of Notre Dame Avenue. 
And most of those gathered agreed with him. Among those gathered at the crime preven­tion meeting were Northeast Neighborhood residents, offi­cers of the South Bend Police Department and Notre Dame students and administrators, including Assistant University Vice President William Kirk and Assistant Director of Notre Dame Security Charles Hurley. Communication between the Notre Dame community, the Northeast Neighborhood and the South Bend Police and Notre Dame Security is key. 
Don Ruszkowski, investiga­tive division chief at the South Bend Police Department, ad­dressed concerns of both the Notre Dame community and the residents of Northeast Neighborhood, and emphasized that all incidents were of con­cern to both groups. 
Regarding the assaults of students on Notre Dame Avenue, Ruszkowski said that the South Bend Police have taken measures to prevent fur­ther attacks and apprehend those involved by placing plain clothes officers in the area at different times. 
Although officers have put in 95 hours already on the plain­clothes detail, they have not made positive identifications on juveniles involved in the as­saults. 
But Ruszkowski assured the group that the officers were making progress in other ar­eas. "We're going to catch somebody while we're out there," he said. "We have al­ready confronted a gang of ju­veniles." 
Ruszkowski added that crime involving juveniles is always more difficult to deal with be­cause of the age group. 
"The rights of juveniles are twice as strict as those of adults," he said. Juveniles are required to have a parent pre­sent during any questioning, and many times the parent will actually talk the child out of admitting to anything, he added. 
Concerns were also ad­dressed about continuing stu­dent involvement in the com­munity. Kathy Rayu of the Center for Social Concerns wor­ries about the effect that the fear of crime will have on com­munity volunteers, who per­form services such as painting houses, tutoring and other neighborhood projects. 
"Students need to know that this is their neighborhood, " she said. "Students do a lot of community service in the area. We don't want students to be afraid to go into the neighbor-
see SAFElY I page 4 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 

Power shift possible in November 
By MYRNA MALONEY 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
When compared to the older generations of the American public, the capability of today's younger generation to process political information commonly displayed in the electronic me­dia is more developed, accord­ing to Kathleen Hall Jamieson. 
Jamieson, a professor of communication and dean of the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, used video clips to complement her hypothesis that, due to the popularity of computers, video games and music videos of the1980's, the generation un­der the age of 30 is better so­cialized to comprehend the messages in political references in the entertainment industry. 
"How is it that you people under 30 learn about politics since you are less likely to read newspapers or watch the news compared to other genera­tions?'" Jamieson asked. 
"It is possible tl!at a younger generation has a better capac­ity to process information which comes from different channels of communication. These channels are ones that most scholars don't look to be­cause we don't watch music videos, for instance," she con­tinued. 
"Through my research, I have obtained results that sug­gest older generations have more trouble making sense out of music videos because of the rapid speech, segmented pat­terns of repetition and rapidly intercut musical messages. In a sense, the older group is used to the slow transitions, long cuts and conventional grammar of T.V.," Jamieson said. 
In the study, Jamieson and her team of researchers showed a music video-like clip to subjects in two age groups: an under 30 group and an over 40 group. 
The video consisted of President George Bush pointing to his lips while his famous, "read my lips" dialogue was repeatedly dubbed in. Across 
see JAMIESON I page 4 

ByJOHN CONNORTON 
News Writer 
As the November mid-term elections roll around, Beltway watchers are anticipating a def­inite shake-up in the nation's Capitol. How sweeping the changes will be remains un­clear. but some analysts believe there is a decent chance that one or both houses of Congress could change hands on November 8. 
The GOP has not had control of the House of Representatives since 1954, and with the excep­tion of six years in the 1980s, the same is true for the Senate. 
Peri Arnold, University of Notre Dame professor of gov­ernment, sees such an historic event, a Republican controlled House and Senate, as unlikely. 
"There is a reasonable, about 50-50 chance, that the Republicans will gain control of the Senate," he said. "The Republicans need seven seats to achieve a majority. That in itself is not a big number historically, but the Republicans will need a stun­ningly decisive victory in the House to achieve a majority." 
House Republicans need to pick up 40 seats to wrest con­trol from the Democrats, four­teen more than the average number of House seats lost in midterm elections by the party in the White House. There are currently 52 seats being con­tested in the elections. 
However, Arnold points out that the Republicans do not need to win 40 seats to effec­tively weaken the Democratic hold on the House. Even a less­er gain will weaken President Clinton's capacity to effectively initiate legislation, Arnold said. 
"We all saw firsthand how effective Republicans were in stymieing Clinton's major leg­islative efforts. Imagine how much more leverage the Republicans would have with say 20 more seats," Arnold observed. 
Republican strategy for the mid-terms has been to harness the growing frustrations with incumbency and government. Arnold argues that the GOP "has aimed to nationalize the off-year election," a move that has trumped tradition. Conventional wisdom dictates that mid-term elections have been focused on local issues. 
"The Republicans have forced the issue. and now na­tional issues like the effective­ness of the Presidency and the economy are impinging upon what had been the local focus of mid-term elections." said Arnold. "Republican chal­lengers have embraced as a group a central set of issues, and are using them to pin Democrats to the wall." 
Arnold believes this strate­gy is not quite working as planned. He points to Newt Gingrich's recent Contract with America, a GOP ploy that has committed to Reaganesque agenda of tax cuts, increased defense spending, and a consti­tutional amendment to balance the budget. 
"This was a clumsy attempt by the Republicans. My own in­tuition is that this contract rais­es issues that Republicans might better want kept hid­den," said Arnold. "The Democrats are now making hay with the Contract. Granted it is wet hay, but it is something nonetheless." 
see ELECTIONS I page 4 

page 2 

The Observer • INSIDE 
~­

---
-~-~ 
Tuesday, October 18, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Dang it all to Hell, I want my Far Side 
Well, unless you're 
Dave Kellen 
clueless, you've heard 
Canoonist

the bad news already. Gary Larson is calling it quits and ending the "Far Side" for good. Like many of you, I fmd myself quietly sad­dened by his early retirement. What's worse, sans Berke Breathed and now the big G.L.. the Sunday funnies are a pretty pitiful thing. Let's see what we've got left... 
• 
Fred Bassett "The cartoon so unfunny it makes 'Dianetics' seem like a good read." This one centers around a dog who, for all intents and purposes, should have been put to sleep years ago. If you've never seen it, con­sider yourself one of God's chosen. 

• 
Andy Capp The cartoon with three situa­tional jokes, none of which has ever been funny. The first has Andy at a bar, loaded, trying to hit on the woman next to him by say­ing, "Hello luv, buy you a drink?" And as a punchline she'll come back with the always witty, "No." The second has Andy coming home, loaded, arguing with 'Pet' about why he's so late. By panel four, we always see Andy locked out, sitting on his drunk keister, cussing at his shoes (a typical pose for the protagonist). The last one has Andy loaded (notice the pattern yet?) and out playing soc­cer. There has never been a 'joke' with this one, but we see Andy in shorts, which is always a treat. 

• 
Garfield Don't you get it? He hates Mondays. It's really endlessly hilarious once you figure that out. Really. Very funny. 

• 
Family Circus: I can't make fun of this one, (although Lord knows it deserves it) sim­ply because I've always secretly dug the one where Billy is bookin' around the neighbor­hood raising Cain. And you get to follow the dotted line to see how many neighborhood dogs the little guy kicked. I always dug that. 

• 
Ziggy Big nose, little humor. 

• 
Beetle Bailey: Or as I like to think of it, "The Private Most in Need of Prozac." 

• 
Mark Trail You may not have heard of this one, as they may only print it in the Yukon, I'm not sure. Basically, its the PBS of ~artoons. Each week it tells you about a dif­ferent animal and the unique way in which it stands out as 'Mother Nature's little freak.' My dream "Mark Trail?" 'Everything you ever wanted to know about the reproductive habits of the woodchuck.' 

• 
Peanuts Hasn't made me laugh since 1978, but who can argue with those dancin' on the Christmas specials? Chuck bustin' a move, even after he picked the dumbest look­ing Christmas tree possible. 

• 
Marmaduke See "Fred Bassett"-add 95 pounds. 

• 
Mary Worth Sheds new light on the word "euthanasia." Endless, unfunny storylines. 

• 
Gasoline Alley Gives me nightmares its so bad. Unbelievably bad. Horrible. Totally void of humor in any way shape or form. Just really, really bad. Basic storyline: peo­ple standing around being unfunny. 


But alas. my space, like the golden age of comics, runs to an end. Feel free to disagree with any of these thoughts, just keep in mind that they come from the same moron who named his strip "Four Food Groups of the Apocalypse.'' And so I leave you with this thought: Buy War Bonds. America Needs You. (Sorry, couldn't think of a witty end). 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 

News Lab Tech Gwendolyn Norgle Eric Ruethling Vivian Gembara Sports Production Tim Sherman Whitney Sheets 
Accent Belle Bautista 
Lisa Monaco Viewpoint Graphics Rae Sikula 
Anthony Limjuco Mike O'Hara 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Kohl confident but partners bicker in German elections 
BONN, Germany 
Mocking earlier predictions of his political demise, Chancellor Helmut Kohl said Monday that he would rule happily with a small majority. 
He moved quickly to forge the thin parliamentary ma­jority of 10 that he won in Sunday's elections into a Cabinet he will lead for four more years. 
Markets welcomed the conservative victory and the German mark rose slightly against the dollar as Kohl promised to keep a steady keel in foreign policy and to further European integration. 
"We are staying on our course," the chancellor said. "All of us need Europe but we Germans need Europe more than others do." 
Economists predicted, however, that the slim conser­vative majority and newly strengthened opposition in the upper house of parliament would slow Kohl's campaign to trim the $462 billion federal budget deficit and cut red tape hindering innovation in German industry. 
Some analysts and several leading Social Democrats predicted that a leftward trend among voters would force Kohl out by the end of 1996. 
Voters Sunday dealt a potential death blow to Germany's leading right radical party, the Republicans, which lost its pet cause when Kohl cracked down on im­migration with a new asylum law last year. 
While the extreme right is on the upswing in Italy, France, Belgium and Austria, the Republicans won just under 2 percent of Sunday's vote, 3 percent less than the minimum necessary to enter parliament. 
Jewish leader Ignatz Bubis, often the target of the Republicans, said he was happily surprised. "But it doesn't mean that the danger from the right has been banished for good," he said. 
Among the fresh faces in parliament were its first peo­ple of color-two second-generation children of Turkish immigrants, Cern Ozdemir of the left-wing Greens and Leyla Onur, of the Social Democrats. 
Parliamentary debates about the integration of the 7 million foreigners living in Germany will for the first time have Turkish-inflected voices. 
Ozdemir promised to campaign for dual citizenship for the children of foreigners born in Germany or immi­grants who spend more than eight years here. 
Also elected was Volker Beck of the Greens, who leads a national gay rights group. 
Sen. Feinstein surpassed in spending 
WASHINGTON 
Californian Michael Huffington has drawn nearly $17 million from his per­sonal fortune to bankroll his bid for a Senate seat, surpassing the previous record for self-financed bids for Congress. According to documents filed over the weekend with the Federal Elections Commission, Huffington, a Republican, contributed almost $2.1 

million of his own money for the three-month period that ended Sept. 30. He backed that up with a $5.5 million loan from himself to the campaign. That brings his total for the 1994 election cycle to nearly $16.8 million. Of that total, $9.77 million is in direct contributions from himself, while $7 million is in loans from him. Huffington's oppo­nent, Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein, trails far behind in spending. Her campaign report Monday showed has raised $9,081,647, and has spent $8,887,282. She's given only about $8,000 in contributions to her campaign, but in the latest reporting period she borrowed $940,000 from First Republic Bank to help the campaign. Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N .C., holds the record for spending in the Senate. But the vast majority of the $17.7 million Helms spent for his successful re-election campaign in 1990 came from a direct-mail network that he has cultivated around the country. 
•INDIANA WEATHER 


The Accu-Weather~~~> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 18. 
FRONTS: 

"T"""T"" ....&...&.. .............. COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Waathar, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vl.t~IIKIPress 

Atlanta 73 51 Dallas 78 70 New Orleans 82 72 Baltimore 71 41 Denver 60 40 New York 66 47 Boston 63 45 Los Angeles 76 58 Philadelphia 69 47 Chicago 76 61 Miami 84 74 Phoenix 63 50 Columbus 76 40 Minneapolis 62 59 St. Louis 78 65 
32 parties, a& well a& indePendents 
parties field candidates in all districts. 
Main pttrt!,~ _.dSW Seats In parliament Christian Democratic Union •CSU (conservative) 
294 -+ Social Democratic Party (liberal) · "'" 252 Alliance 90 ·The Greens (left-wing environmentalists) 49 Free Democratic Party {pttrbusiness, sociaHy liberal) 47 Party of Democratic Socialism (socialists, former communists) 30 Republicani ffar right) , • , ,. · ve 0 
t3 Rules: Germans marl< two 'Xs' on !heir ballots, one for adirectly elected 
Bundestag candidate, the other for aparty ~st. Those directly elected are guaranteed aseat Htheir party gets 5percent of the national vote. The list vote ~!Tlines.~~.overall percentage of seats each party gets. 
Election results 

Results based on 100 percent of the vote counted Social Democratic Party: 36.4% Christian Democrats· CSU: 41.5% Others: 1.6% Free Democrats: 6.9% 

Alliance 90 ·Greens: 7.3% Party for Democratic Socialism: 4.4o/o 
API Wm. J. Castello 
GM will fight if recall is ordered 
DETROIT 
General Motors Corp. attacked Transportation Secretary Federico Pena's decision that millions of GM pickup trucks are unsafe, and it promised a court battle i the government orders a recall. "There is simply no legal or scientific basis on which to seek a recall of these trucks," GM vice president Bruce G. MacDonald said in a statement Monday after Pena announced he had deter­mined that 1973-87 GM C-K series pickup trucks present an unreasonable risk of fire in side-impact collisions. At issue are the trucks' "sidesaddle" fuel tanks, which are mounted outside the frame rails on the sides of the vehi­cles. Pena said that design caused fires that killed 150 people in crashes they otherwise would have survived, according to a National Highway Traffic Safety Administration analysis. "This design was selected for marketing reasons," Pen a said, adding that there was evi­dence GM knew it could make the trucks safer but it chose not to for 15 years. MacDonald said the suggestion that GM put sales ahead of safety was "outrageous and wrong" and that the company "stands fully behind these trucks, their safety record and the engineers who designed them." If the government orders a recall after a hearing Pena has for Dec. 6, "we will defend their safety in court," MacDonald said. The company rejected an April 9, 1993, government request that it recall the trucks vol­untarily. 
The Ob~rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except du~ing exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All rep~oduction rights are reserved. 

Tuesday, October 18, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS page3 
Loveman discusses transition 

era! changes in many of the Latin American governments, the new "democracies" are in some ways even more oppres­sive than the old. 
According to Loveman, in many countries there is formal corporate representation of the military. Civilians are still tried in military courts for ordinary crimes. Furthermore, in some governments the military are given representation in the leg­islative branch. In Argentina, military leaders have protec­tion. Commanders cannot be removed, even by the executive. 
What we have "always in the background is this fear," Loveman said. "The left has been destroyed as an ideologi­cal force." 
Although there have been changes, Loveman said, the underlying fear exists. "What we have most of all is protected democracy." The only solution to the problem will be "getting rid of military jurisdiction over civilians completely." 
Investment Banking Opportunities at CS First Boston 
CS First Boston, a leading global investment banking firm, will be recruiting for its financial analyst program. Positions are available in the Investment Banking Department. All Seniors are invited to attend a presentation. 
Presentation: 

Wednesday, October 19, 1994 The Alumni Room The Morris Inn 6:00p.m. 
Interviewing Schedule: 
Investment Banking November 14, 1994 
For further information and inquiries, please contact: 
Greg Miller (212) 909-3061 
f... 



CS FIRST BosToN 
Malloy's attendanc·e unsettling to senate
By JONATHAN PICCINI News Writer 
Change can be damaging, especially in Latin America, where the new civilian gov­ernments are even more harm­ful to their citizens than the military regimes they replaced, according to Brian Loveman, professor in the department of political science at the University of San Diego. 
"The transitions from military to civilian governments have reaffirmed authoritarian and military traditions in the re­gion," Loveman said when he spoke last night about "Protected Democracies, Transitions to Civilian Government in Latin America 1978-94." 
According to Loveman, the transition from military to civil­ian government is harmful. Military coups have been a tra­ditional way of changing gov­ernment in Latin America. In fact a third of all the govern­ment changes in L.A. have in­cluded a military coup. 
There are good reasons for military government in Latin America, Loveman said. These governments were provided for in the constitutions of many na­tions. According to Loveman, every constitution in Latin America provides for a regime of exception. Marshall law and suspension of habeus corpus are two examples. 
"This is a tradition that pro­vides for crisis by suspending the constitution and democratic tradition," said Loveman. "They are dictatorships governing 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
News Writer 
The Reverend Edward Malloy, C.S.C., University presi­dent, was the speaker at the Faculty Senate meeting last Monday night.. 
According to the Reverend Richard McBrien, the Crowley­O'Brien-Walter Chair of the Faculty Senate, the Senators who shared their views of the meeting with him said they were "they were "unsatisfied" with Malloy's responses to their questions. 
The Senators' reactions were "more downbeat," according to McBrien, who said he thought the Senators felt Malloy "tend­ed to be condescending." 
Faculty Senator and Professor of finance Richard Sheehan said, "I don't think he (Malloy) gave frank, candid, honest responses that the Faculty Senate wanted or deserved." 
One of the questions asked of Malloy at last week's meeting concerned the appointment of Father Tim Scully, C.S.C. as Associate Provost. Scully was appointed to this position with­out, also, being named a vice president. 
According to McBrien, "had Scully been appointed as Associate Provost, without also being named a vice president, there would have been no for­mal protest from the Faculty Senate and from other mem­bers of the faculty." 
However, the vice-presiden­tial aspect of Scully's appoint­ment was not delayed until the fall 1994 meeting of the Board of Trustees, who voted on the appointment. According to Sheehan, the Board was told about the new appointment "less than two hours before" they were to vote on it. 

In reaction to Malloy's re­sponse that the appointment o a new Associate Provost was done in a "crisis" situation, Sheehan responded that it was "an excellent appointment" on Malloy's part, but "to do this without the trustees knowing before they vote poses the question -'what are you trying to hide from whom?' If the appointment was an opportuni­ty, wouldn't he (Malloy) tell them (the Board) as soon as possible?" 
Sheehan said he feels "some­thing was hidden." 
The Faculty Senate asked Malloy other questions con­cerning the role of the faculty in the governance of the University, the influence of the political and/or theological ori­entation of donors on the Administration's shaping o policies, and the criteria of the Administration used in setting priorities for Colloquy for the Year 2000. 
Malloy's response concerning the Colloquy was the same as was stated in his opening year letter to the faculty on September 8, in which he said that "the spirit of the develop­ment plan is that the best and most informed decisions (pre­suming available funding) will result from the most compre­hensive and exhaustive analy­sis of the options." 
According to Malloy's letter, the Colloquy's plan is to include a "concentration on physical development of the campus." 
Malloy, also, communicated to the Faculty Senate what he wrote in his Annual Address to the Faculty on October 4., that what he and the faculty need to do "this coming year and beyond is to sustain the momentum and to enlarge our sense of what we are called to become." 
under the mantle of legality. When Western officials talk about returning the military to its traditional role, they don't get it." Military rule is tradition, according to Loveman. 
Since 1978, several new civilian governments have been formed. Among them are Brazil in 1985, Ecuador in 1978, and Chile in 1990. These new gov­ernments are not, however, democracies as we understand the term. They are, as Loveman said, "Protected Democracies," which have the following crux: "You just can't trust people." 
According to Loveman, no government should be allowed to destroy the permanent inter­est of the country. As a result, the military is given the role of protector and "maintains resid­ual sovereignty," said Loveman. 
In the civilian, yet protected democracies, Loveman said, the "constitution becomes a sacra­ment for legitimizing the new government." 
While there have been sev-

PHYSICAL THERAPY CLUB Meeting Tonight! 9 p.m. 127 Nieuwland Hall 

"Happy B-day 
Mike" 

Always thinking about you and our past. 
They will never find out// 
Hug1 and Killei-



O.J. 

r---------------------------------------­
page 4 viewers identified the bird as a chicken.

Jaillieson 
"We found two things which were significant to our theory
continued from page 1 
in their responses. First, the younger audience was able to
the screen, among other things, were intercut, animated cheer­
accurately recall visual image of the bird; a capacity that
leaders and a type of bird 
seemed unique to them due to
which the older crowd thought was a turkey while the younger 
the fact that most said they 

Jamieson continues lecture series at SMC 
By LAURA FERGUSON rent elections don't mention Saint Mary's News Ediror the health care debate. The focus now is on crime and, 
On Nov. 8, life for Kathleen according to Jamieson, this Hall Jamieson will return to means virtually no accountabil­normal. ity. 
As a leading expert in elec­"We could be advancing the tion campaigns and both a issue but we aren't because the dean and professor of the reporters have left the beat", Annenburg School for she explained. "If it is not Communication at the brought up in the next University of Pennsylvania, Congress the public's needs election day is a long awaited won't be addressed." breath of air following the hec­In addition to Jamieson's tic campaign season of the fall. public appearances and teach­
Recently on her national lec­ing responsibilities, she is the ture tour she spoke at Indiana author of several books on University and this morning political communication, she appeared on "Good including "Dirty Politics: Morning America" via the ABC Distraction, Deception, and affiliate in Elkhart. In between Democracy". This January, her all of her interviews and lec­latest work regarding women tures, she teaches one under­and leadership called "Beyond graduate class a year and a the Double Bind" will hit the team teaches a graduate bookshelves. course. According to Jamieson, this 
"I teach what I write," said book is a rebuttal to Susan Jamieson. "Lectures are an Faludi's 1991 book entitled," r effective way to get our re­Backlash." search out more quickly. We Jamieson says Faludi claims 
f 
I 
·ust fmished a year long project that women have made signifi­(on the health care reform de­cant gains in recent years but bate) but the results won't be are driven back. Although published for at least two many groups in women's move­years. We want our ideas out ment have adopted Faludi's when they will make a differ­ideas, Jamieson views 
ence." "Backlash" as bad history and 
r 
Jamieson specializes in bad psychology. 
! r 
studying how voters learn in­In this rebuttal book, formation and uses the health Jamieson illustrates several care debate as a case study. binds that have held women 
l 
According to Jamieson, re­back in the past. One such bind sponse to the health care de­was the notion that a woman 
bate turned out to be similar to could not have an education elections. and still be a good mother. 
f 
"Voters tried to get informa­"Now people believe that tion the way they get it from women can menstruate and 
campaigns -by identifying with think at the same time," she
,' 
r 
the people," she said. "Then said. 
they tried to look for a debate
r t 
but there was none and then Another bind involves aging the public tried to read about and visibility, particularly o the issue, but it wasn't under­women. Jamieson pointed out standable. So they had to fall that when women do become back on advertising." successful they won't reveal 
After looking at the current their age. Aging is viewed as a system, Jamieson thought this disability, she said. is not the way government "Women have broken the age 
' ~ 
ought to work, since the cur-barriers of menopause but we 
r 
The Creative Writing Program Department of English presents a reading by 
ROBERT OLEN BUTLER 
The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, October 18, 1994 
noticed the bird four times on average while the majority of 

Safety Elections 
the older group that saw the same video four times had trou­continued from page 1 continued from page 1 ble recalling what they had seen," Jamieson said. hood." Even if the GOP does not 
"Secondly, the older audience Kirk echoed her sentiments, win control of either House, didn't like the video. They felt saying, "Students are very con­things are clearly looking up it had no legitimate argument cerned about crime. We would for the party. Across the coun­and that its main purpose was hate (these incidents) to effect try, Republican gubernatorial to ridicule the President," she neighborhood involvement." challengers are predicted to continued. Ruszkowski said that, for defeat their Democratic oppo­
now, students should use more nents. Arnold expects "Conversely, the younger au­caution. Republicans to win in Illinois, 
dience not only liked the video, "They should walk in Ohio, Michigan, California, and but saw irony and read the groups or have someone give possibly New York. meaning of the visual mark­them a ride, " he said. "Right "The projected outcome of ers," she said. now we are trying to address these races is an important in­
the problem. dicator of a really resurgent 
Jamieson noted the younger The South Bend Police will Republican party," said Arnold. viewers interpreted the chick­soon be adding another district Likewise, Arnold points to en's image as an ironic parallel to the Northeast Neighborhood, the Virginia Senate race where to Bush's "read my lips" claim. Ruskowski said, putting an ex­Oliver North has mounted an While younger viewers con­tra patrol officer in the area at increasingly effective challenge nected the images by saying all times. to incumbent Chuck Robb. that chickens lack lips, the Ruszkowski especially Given that Virginia, particular­older audience literally inter­stressed cooperation between ly the northern half, is fairly preted the image of the bird to police and community mem­urban and cosmopolitan, mean that Bush was a turkey. bers as the solution to many Arnold believes a North victory 
"I believe they (the younger crime problems. would reveal just how strong viewers) have learned distinct "Cops cannot do it alone," he the right-wing of the GOP has methods for doing this through said. become. their exposure to fast-paced "Northeast Neighborhood is "This race is clearly a lit­music videos and computer im­no different from any other mus-test," he said. 
ages which they have been neighborhood-somebody else As to how these develop­brought up with," Jamieson had to see (the assaults). ments will effect President said. People are afraid to tell us Clinton's chances for re-elec­when they see something tion in 1996, analysts remain 
Jamieson is the author of because of retribution or other uncertain. Certainly, "Packaging the Presidency: A consequences. I blame them Republican victories in History of Criticism and for not coming forward, but I Congress will weaken Clinton's Presidential Advertising," can understand why they ability to pursue his personal "Eloquence in an Electronic wouldn't." agenda. Age," "Dirty Politics: Deception, 
dents at two female dorms. 
Distraction and Democracy" 
According to Hurley, 11:45

Attacks
and a forthcoming book about p.m. on Saturday, the Knott women in leadership, "Beyond continued from page 1 Hall dorm monitor contactedthe Double Bind," which will be security to remove a male stu­published in January of 1995, the subject, who tried to enter dent from the dorm, reportingaccording to a press release. 
their conversation, he said. that he refused to sign in. The students began to walk According to the monitor, theJamieson also recently com­away, and the subject allegedly student was seen runningpleted a study of communica­grabbed the shoulder of one of toward the towers. 
tion in the health care reform the PE residents. The three The subject turned up laterdebate that was funded by the then went inside of PE, which in Farley Hall. When the moni­Robert Wood Foundation. She was Detexed at the time. tor attempted to contact securi­specializes in studying voter 
The man then entered the ty, the man swung at her and
intake of information and the lobby of dorm, and security was knocked the radio out of her process by which they do it. 
contacted and the arrest was hand, slightly injuring her handHer lecture was last night in made, Hurley said. and thumb, Hurley said. 
Carroll Auditorium at Saint 
In another incident over the The student was caught inMary's. 
weekend, a student was appre­Planner Hall, and released to hended by security after inci-his rector, Hurley said. 





all Festival '9 


Fall Festival is a one-day service project to show Notre Dame's support for the South Bend Community. 
Students and residents will work together to beautify the Northeast Neighborhood by planting flowers and cleaning the interiors and exteriors of local homes. 
The project will be followed by a
Winner of the 1993 Pulitzer Prize 
block party for all volunteers. 
Wednesday, October 19 7:30p.m. 

If you are interested in being a part of Fall
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

Reception following Festival '94, sign up in the dining halls, the CSC, or the LaFortune Information Desk. 
This event made possible by the 



Any Questions, please call Karen DuBay at 271-8992. 
Paul M. & Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series, College of Arts & Letters, Institute lor Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, Department of English 

~ 
·-~---~---~-~ ~------------~~---~-~-----~----~---------­
Tuesday, October 18, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Israel, Jordan initial peace accord Israel and Jordan sign draft for peace 
Israeli Prime Minister 
By JAMAL HALABY without achieving peace with important achievement," a 
Yitzhak Rabin and 
Associated Press Syria and Lebanon, there will weary Rabin told reporters in 
Jordan's King 
be no peace in the region ... Jerusalem after returning from Hussein signed a AMMAN, Jordan This is the reality." Monday's ceremony and the draft of a formal 
peace accord 
Jordan and Israel initialed a King Hussein of Jordan, who overnight meetings in Jordan. 
Monday. They hope 
draft treaty Monday to end maintained clandestine con­"I think it will also have reper­
to sign the actual 
nearly a half-century of hostil­tacts with Israeli leaders for cussions where Syria and the pact by the end of ity, intensifying pressure on years despite the state ofwar Palestinians are concerned." the month. Syria to move toward ending between the two countries, in­Peace talks with Syria have one of the world's longest-run­sisted the treaty heralded a lagged over Damascus' demand ning conflicts. new era. "Hopefully, it is a that Israel relinquish the Golan 
VITZHAK KING
The accord, reached after an fresh beginning and a fresh Heights captured in the 1967 
RABIN HUSSEIN
all-night session that resolved start," he said. Middle East war. Polls show disputes over water rights and And Prime Minister Yitzhak most Israelis oppose giving up 
borders, was expected to be Rabin of Israel called it a "his­the Golan. 

~ E:
quickly ratifi~d by the torically unique moment," and Monday's accord, signed by 
Once aJewish Ascended to
Jordanian and Israeli legisla­said he hoped a full-fledged Rabin and Prime Minister 
underground throne in 1953. 
tures. The Israeli Cabinet ap­treaty would be signed by the Abdul Salam Majali of Jordan, leader. Has been 
Opposed'79proved it within hours after it end of next week. came after a rocky week for involved in Israeli Camp David was signed. Israel TV said the full accord peace talks with the politics since the peace
nation was treaty between
After Monday's ceremony, would be signed Oct. 26 on the Palestinians. 
establisheQ in Egypt and Israel.
Israeli President Ezer Weizman Jordan-Israel border. President Israel suspended negotiations 1948. Military Has since said Syrian President Hafez Clinton accepted an invitation with the PLO after Islamic mili­commander in '67 supported Assad "should look around and to attend, the White House an­tants kidnapped an Israeli sol­war; prime minister U.S. efforts toward 
since 1992. peace.
see ... He may be the last in nounced. dier. The soldier was killed by line" to make peace with Israel. Israel and Jordan signed a his captors Friday as Israeli 
Some terms of the accord
But in Damascus, where gov­non-belligerency pact in commandos stormed their hide­ernment-run newspapers have Washington on July 25, and out, but talks are to resume 
Israel will retum to Israel will lease certain The nations will start newsaid daily that Israel was not to since then had been working to Tuesday in Cairo. Jordan 152 square miles areas that include Israeli projects on the Yarmouk be trusted, Syrian Foreign resolve differences that stood in Jordan is only the second of desert and farmland it settlements or farms. River to increase water 
seized after the 1948 flow to Jordan.
Minister Farouk al-Sharaa said: the way of a full-fledged peace Arab country to make peace 
Middle East War.

"We hope the Israeli govern­treaty. with Israel. Egypt broke ranks 
ment will realize the fact that "I believe this peace is an to do so in 1979. 
APfTeny Kola 
• SECURITY BEAT 

Aristide appeals for truce
FRI., SEPT. 14th 1 :32 p.m. A visitor reported the theft of 
Gonaives. 

In a brief speech Monday at the National Palace, Aristide urged "creating a state of law like all modern societies." 
Underlining Aristide's plea for reconciliation, Duperval joined the Haitian leader on the palace stairs and helped him hoist the Haitian flag. 
Then Duperval offered Aristide a crisp salute and en­ergetic handshake. The army chief was promoted last week to replace coup leader Raoul Cedras, who fled into exile. 
Enthusiastic crowds briefly prevented Aristide's motorcade froni leaving the palace to lay a wreath at Haiti's national mu­seum to commemorate the as­sassination in 1806 of Jean­Jacques Dessaline, one of Haiti's founding fathers. 
Aristide's motorcade re­treated, then used a back exit to get to the nearby national museum. 
Aristide officials sought Monday to put an end to the violence. Information Minister Herve Denis said anyone caught looting or targeting the homes of Aristide's political op­ponents would be arrested. 
SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book NotTe Dame Football Today, reg. $4995 , now just $3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on NO football." A must for every student and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
Call Kyle Dory: 
his jacket from the Morris Inn. 
12:03 p.m. Security responded to two­

By MICHAEL NORTON the palace steps. 
car accident on Juniper Rd. There were no 7:46 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident reported 

Associated Press The mob attack in Gonaives, 
injuries. vandalism to his vehicle whole parked in 
100 miles north of Port-au­
the 02 parking lot. 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti Prince, occurred after Aristide
3:11 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported 
the theft of his bike from the Grace Hall SUN., SEPT. 16th 
President Jean-Bertrand summoned Duperval to the 
bike rack. 

Aristide preached anew for rec­National Palace on Sunday to 
2:49a.m. A Grace Hall resident reported 

onciliation from behind his bul­discuss how to dismantle the
9:30 p.m. Security arrested an area resi­being assaulted by an unknown male in a 

letproof shield Monday, hours military, including cutting the
dent for public intoxication. Grace Hall rest room. 

after a mob torched the family army roster by 80 percent. 
9:55 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident reported 1 :36 p.m. Security transported a Carroll 

home of Haiti's new army com­U.S. troops guarding the 
the theft of cash from her wallet while at Hall resident to St. Joseph Medical Center The Huddle. for treatment of a sports injury. 
SAT., SEPT. 15th 4:48 p.m. A Walsh Hall resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph 
1:45 a.m. Security arrested a South Medical Center for treatment of a sports Bend resident for being a Habitual Traffic injury. Violator. 
11:19 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident was 
10:08 a.m. Security confiscated bumper transported by Security to St. Joseph stickers that were being sold illegally by a Medical Center for treatment of a lacera­visitor. tion. 

I 

' 

'Parficipanls mud 6e a nTJJsmc sludenl. OnliJ lltllwrks wilt 6e accepled (drawings, design, pht~lt1graplr1J, painlings} willa a maximum si~e t~l3.x3'. 
11re exlri6ilwilt 6e sht~wn in lire 'Dt~t~leiJ bt~m al.fa1t~rlune Sludenl Cenler nt~uem6er 1-11 
'Purchase pri~es, slarfing al $200, will 6e awarded. 
/lpplitlllillll (1, llllllita•t, ,,.,;, "" SluJ,,I Atliuilit~ Ollie' 375 lailrllllll. 
Special 711aii•J fo file A''"""; Au•eiafifll, 
,,., s,.;,, m,,,,.,,,.tt ,,., 
Sl•tle11l Aeli11ili" Ollie•*" flleir tb11ulli•11r fo f111 p11rella11 prqe awartlr. 


mander. palace unloaded Duperval's 
Fifteen buildings were set normal sidearms, prompting afire and one man killed in the unfounded rumors to spread coastal town of Gonaives after a that the army chief had tried to false rumor spread Sunday topple Aristide. night that Maj. Gen. Jean­At least 10 houses and five Claude Duperval had led a coup stores were burned in the city attempt against Aristide. of Gonaives, including one be­
After three years of army longing to Duperval's mother rule, Aristide faces a major and another belonging to the challenge in persuading his na­grandmother of former junta tion to put aside the desire for leader Lt. Col. Michel Francois. vengeance. A grain depot owned by the 
At the same time, concern Brandts, one of Haiti's richest for Aristide's security has prac­families, was looted. tically made him a prisoner of Radio Signal-FM said U.S. the National Palace, where his and Haitian soldiers arrested appearances have been from more than 100 people in 

behind a bulletproof shield on putting down the violence in 
Happy 21st 


Mike! 
.. .from everybody in Kansas City and Wichita! 
(219)634-1740 

The Malabar, Cuisine ofIndia 




~z"" 
$>~~ 
Re-opening at new location October 18, 19 9 4 Openfor Lunch and Dinner 
1640 S. Bend Avenue· 271-0115 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT October 18, 1994 
f 
~ 
t f 
r 
r 
<( 
z 
~ 
0 
8 -"­
.c: '5 
0 
~ 
-"' 
~ 
_Q 
0"' 
.,. 
a­
~ 
@ 

r----------------------------------------, 
HOW TO KEEP PEOPLE'S HANDS OFF YOUR MONEY. 

i  Carry only enough cash to last the day. Anyone who tries to borrow your last five spot isn't a friend, anyway.  
i  Label your spare-change jar "beetle farm:' Then, put your beetle farm in a jar labeled "spare change."  
i  Mark up every space on checks. Don't leave room for someone to fill in their name and extra zeros.  
i  Keep your wallet in your front pocket. It discourages pickpockets. So does wearing really tight pants.  
i  Put your picture on your credit card. A Citibank Photocard is tough for anyone else to use, unless they look just like you.  


~----~~~--~~--------~--------~--------~------~------------------------------------------------~---------------------~ 
Tuesday, October 18, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 


DeJean traces French roots 
By DIANA REINHART spread and captured the at­write, and the newspaper and News Writer tention of the average reader. the novel formed a type of The average reader also pos­"alliance" in spreading the pub­
Tension between ancients sessed a new willingness to lic's interest, according to and moderns in literature is judge what literature should be DeJean. obviously not a struggle solely produced and how it should be rlirACtflN Say characteristic of the 1990's, interpreted. "The newspaper, novel, and the private ·sec· according to University of "Literature went public and literary criticism made litera­up for the loss in Pennsylvania Trustee Professor won a new audience," DeJean ture public," DeJean said. s because dona~ Joan DeJean. said. It was an audience DeJean's interpretation of manufacturers and
· · DeJean traced roots of this "under modern control." French history was compli­are declining. due to struggle in France as well as its According to DeJean, the mented by great enthusiasm efficiency and less influences on the French public emergence of the modern novel and wit. As a professor at the and their conflicting convictions genre specifically instigated the University of Pennsylvania, same time. poverty is 
towards literature's appropri­average man's interest in liter­DeJean said she possesses a rise and food bank ate role in her speech, ature. desire to teach youths. lnUOLlJII.,. say growing numbers "Inventing a Public for "The novel was a genre with According to DeJean, "fight­families with children and Literature." which readers could identify," ing between ancients and mod­working poor are turning 
DeJean, an influential figure she said. erns isn't new and is even more local pantries for a bag of in French studies, is a past Within a novel, the average important because it has a his­member of the Executive person did not have to search tory." Council of the Modern hard for a situation character­Language Association. She is istic of the everyday French The lecture was sponsored by also an author who shares her lifestyle. In many cases, the the English department, the thoughts in her many works novel was so influential, "the Institute for Scholarships in the including "Tender Geographies: genre could even change their Liberal Arts, the gender studies Women and the Origins of the lives," according to DeJean. program, the Graduate Student Novel in France," "Fictions of Despite violent attacks on the Union, and the romance lan­Sappho (1546-1937)," and modern novel, the audience guages and literature depart­"Literary Fortifications: "sat as moral judges" as they ment. These organizations fol­Rousseau, Laclos and Sad e." applied literature to their own lowed the leadership of 
DeJean's lecture traced the lives. Assistant Professor of romance conflict between ancients and With the public's new-found languages and literature at moderns in the 17th and 18th interest in literature, journal­Notre Dame, Julia Douthwaite. centuries in France. Looking ists' desire to get involved was Douthwaite, a friend of DeJean, beneath this conflict, one can inevitable. Naturally, journal­said she awaited the lecture by see how the public for litera­ists faced criticism from those "a dazzling teacher, a dazzling ture broadened, she said. This ancients who believed a jour­scholar and a dazzling friend." conflict provides the answer as nalist's proper job was to stick to why literature was suddenly to the concrete facts rather DeJean encouraged others to being critiqued by a new mass than attempting to write arti­discover more about the history group. cles about literature's abstract of French literature at the end 
According to DeJean, litera­meaning. Ignoring the criti­of her lecture, which was held ture's new public audience cism, journalists continued to in the Decio Faculty Hall. 
Thousands of Islamic militants stage riot Haggar improvements planned ~ 


By HAITHAM HAMAD government and its fundamen­1
By JULIE GANNON sponse to the question, "Do you center appeared to be just as 
Associated Press talist opposition appears to 
News Writer think of Haggar as a student so­varied. A recreational area, 
1
have been thrown off balance cial space?", 83% of the stu­magazines, cable, and pool ta­GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip by the kidnapping last week of Saint Mary's Board of Gover­dents surveyed answered "no". bles topped the list of essen­In a growing challenge to an Israeli soldier. 
nance (BOG) received its first More than half of those who re­tials.
Vasser Arafat, thousands of Sgt. Nachshon Waxman's 
glimpse this week of the sponded in the negative citedIslamic militants rioted outside captors killed him Friday as changes that the student body many different reasons for their The survey will be available
the central jail Monday, de­Israeli commandos stormed 
would like to see concerning answer. to students in the dining hallmanding freedom for arrested their safehouse north of Haggar College Center. "No one goes there" and "not during lunch and dinner hoursfundamentalists. Jerusalem. A commando and Last week, surveys were dis­enough activities offered for it Wednesday and Thursday.
"No to the police state! No three kidnappers also died. 
tributed to all students as a to be considered a social space" In other BOG news: to prison!" shouted protesters, Hamas denounced PLO lead­means of receiving feedback on were two popular responses. • The date for Senior Dad's some shooting into the air. ers for allegedly giving in­
the Center's strengths and Many students also com­Weekend has been set for
Mahmoud Zahar, a leader of formation to Israel that led to weaknesses. The issues dis­mented that they only used the November 11-13. A Casinothe fundamentalist Hamas the kidnappers. 
cussed within the survey Center for facilities such as Night, FSU-ND game tailgater,movement, threatened blood­"We condemn the shameful ranged from the question of ca­Shaheen Bookstore and First and Sunday Mass are among
shed unless the 210 activists role that the Palestinian 
ble television in the game room Source Bank, and a few felt the plans. 
detained last week after the Authority played in serving the to possible improvements in the that it catered so much to facul­kidnapping of an Israeli soldier enemy authority and in helping snack bar. ty, alumni, and businesses that • The Freshman Class Coun­were released. them to reach the kidnappers' According to Student Body they could not feel truly com­cil had its first meeting lastPalestinian officials per­hideout," said a Hamas leaflet. 
President Noha El-Ganzouri, fortable there. Wednesday. The tentative date suaded the crowd to disperse Israel had mistakenly be­323 surveys have been re­The general attitude and sit­for the Freshman class SYR hasafter three hours. They re­lieved that Waxman, who was turned so far, a number that uation is perhaps best conveyed been set for December ninth. A
leased 60 detainees and kidnapped Oct. 9, was being 
she would like to see increase. in the words of one student, freshman class T -shirt is also in 
promised the rest would be held in Gaza, and pressed 
In order to obtain a reliable in­"You go into Haggar to get the works as a possiblehome within days. Palestinian authorities to find dication of the students' opin­what you need, you get it, and fundraising item. 
But a Palestinian comman­him. Palestinian troops ar­
ions. you leave." 

der said the police would soon rested scores of Hamas activists "We would need responses The survey suggested that the • On November 1st, studentsbegin confiscating unregistered in searching for Waxman. 
from at least a third of the stu­Center contained many rooms will be invited to stand togetherweapons, signaling a possible Trying to ease tensions dent body -around 500," El­that the students never use. to form a giant "150" as part ofcrackdown on Izzedine al­Monday, Israeli Prime Minister Ganzouri said. The game room drew the high­Saint Mary's SesquicentennialQassam, Hamas' armed wing. Yitzhak Rabin lifted a six-day Although the comments from est number of "never used" re­celebration. It will be filmedIt was the third day of anti­closure of the Gaza Strip that the students raised many dif­sponses, followed by the mez­and shown on "Good MorningArarat protests in Gaza, where barred 30,000 Gazans from ferent concerns, the general zanine, meeting room, and par­America" on December 8th,a fragile coexistence between jobs in Israel. Talks are to re­feeling toward Haggar ap­lor. which is the date of the officialthe five-month-old autonomy sume Tuesday. 
peared to be negative. In re-Suggestions for improving· the closing of the celebration. 





VIEWPOINT 

• QuoTE Of THE DAY 

''lam not a pessimist; to perceive evil where it exists is, in my opinion, a form of optimism." 
-Roberto Rossellini 
• DOONESBURY 
H/,KIOS/~7D 
OAY 7WO CF NATIONAL­
•CHARACTER. C.OUNTS" tu&a<! I 

r 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
AU.-WU:X, W/3U/Jl3!?19CU93/NG 7H&5/X PIUAR5 Or01ARAC7J3R: 
m.J§J/(/(}K!HJN/39.3, RESP£3{;7, 
RE5PON51811)7Y, fi/!RN&SS, CAJ</NS IWOCIT/lBIJSHIP., 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
1 kn~w we. 
0hJu\d have. wa~ oor hands af~r sha.kin<g hi<?.... 

• DESiDERATA  
In an article I wrote several months  
ago, I compared the plight of Tonya  
Harding to that of Sam Sheppard,  a  
defendant in  a  murder case which  
reached the United States Supreme  
Court in 1966.  My focal point of com­ 
parison was the massive amount of pub­ 
licity surrounding the situation of each­ 
publicity which deprived them both of  
, r r  fair treatment. I suggested that the effect on Harding was perhaps more se­vere in that she, whose "trial" took place  
r  on a skating rink instead of in a court­ 
I  room, did not have a chance to appeal,  
I  while Sheppard eventually did succeed  

~ 
Kirsten Dunne 


in procuring a reversal of the conviction resulting from his unfair trial. On reconsideration, however. I wonder whether the remedies offered by the judiciary are truly that much more effective than no remedy at all. In reconsidering this issue, I have taken special interest in the trial of O.J. Simpson, which comes after months of continuous, detailed, and often distorted media coverage. 
To begin with, one must note that the holding in Sheppard's case will not help every defendant whose trial has been publicized. The Court's conclusion that his conviction could not stand was based largely on the specific facts before it, and these demonstrated blatant impro­prieties in every step of the way. Courts have been reluctant to find other cases sufficiently analogous to Sheppard to require a similar result. 
As the Supreme Court declared on one occasion, "the Constitution entitles a criminal defendant to a fair trial, not a perfect one." And a "fair" trial, accord­ing to judicial consensus, allows for many injustices-injustices which, although not equivalent to those in Sheppard, are nonetheless troubling to those of us seriously concerned for con­stitutional rights. 
It is also generally agreed that a juror can be impartial without being unin­formed and unopinionated. This may well be true, but this notion is not free of difficulties. For example, we cannot truly measure the effect of any given piece of information on our opinions. We can say it has not biased us, but there is such a thing as unconscious bias. 
The shortcomings of this concise state­ment become more obvious in highly publicized cases. Potential jurors, aware that the public may learn of their responses to certain questions, may tai­lor such responses to sound acceptable, and "acceptability" may not always coin­cide with accuracy. Alternatively, potential jurors may feign impartiality based on their desire to be part of such a sensational case. These deficiencies are often underplayed by those who contend that "impartial" does not mean "uninformed"; they respond simply that '"we need to put more faith in the peo­ple we select as jurors." 
Lest we forget, there is also a freedom of press issue here. Because the First Amendment provides the basis for some of our most cherished liberties. courts are extremely reluctant to carve out exceptions to the freedoms the amend­ment grants. As a general matter, this is certainly good judicial policy. However. its effect in situations like these is disturbing. One has to wonder if the price for First Amendment lib­erties should be so exacting as to detract significantly from another constitutional right-the right to a fair trial. 
Assuming a criminal defendant suc­cessfully invokes Sheppard, he still has not won. The Court noted in reaching its conclusion that the trial judge had failed to utilize certain measures which could have lessened the effect of publici­ty surrounding the case. This would lead one to believe that, if the trial judge had used these measures-change of venue, continuance, and/or sequestra­tion-a court might not be willing to find that a reversal is necessitated. However, it is obvious that these mea­sures inadequately address the prob­lems inherent in cases affected so perva­sively by media coverage. as Simpson's case clearly reveals. 
Change of venue would do little when the entire country has been exposed to detailed daily coverage of a case, as has been true of the charges against O.J. Simpson. Any reduction in prejudice that would result from a change of venue would be negligible, if not nonexistent. Continuance would bring about a myriad of technical problems; even more importantly. however, it would do little good. It strains reality to assume that people will forget a case of such magnitude in any reasonable length of time, and it is equally unrealis­tic to believe that, when the trial finally did proceed, the media would refrain from enmeshing itself in the case once more. 
Sequestration as a remedy comes too late in the process. Most of the vital­and prejudicial-information has been exposed to the public far in advance of the trial; indeed, long before a jury has been impaneled. By sequestering jurors after-the-fact, the judicial system will do little good, and may even expose itself to criticism by those who feel that seques­tration forces jurors to pay the price for the acts of other people. 
As applied to O.J. Simpson's case, this discussion is admittedly speculative for the trial is far from finished. However, even if O.J. is acquitted, the case vividly depicts the problems that result from media entrenchment in judicial activity, and it will hopefully cause the judiciary to take a closer look at the efficacy of the remedies it offers to victims of the media. For while it is true that the Sixth Amendment does not guarantee a per­fect trial, it does guarantee a fair one. And if a trial which is inundated and distorted by the often-unethical media is found to satisfy this standard, it is high time to re-examine the meaning of this constitutional guarantee. 
Kirsten Dunne is a graduate student in law. 
Tuesday, October 18, 1994 page 9 


VIEWPOINT 

Female sensitivity training answer to campus sexism 
Dear Editor: 
Shafu Ladha, A!umni Hall junior, writes that the hall notes "are a series of humorous newsletters written by an individual hall resident for the entertain­ment of hall residents ... " and continues, "Do not criticize me for appreciating all types of humor ... " 
In truth, everyone reserves the right to write what they please, to laugh at what they find humorous, and to defend their views when criticized. Our coun­try grants us these rights, and more importantly Our Lady, Notre Dame, encour­ages us to share our thoughts and beliefs with the community. 
However, with freedom comes responsibility. When words can send chills up a woman's spine and incite pain in her heart, something must be wrong. Although members of Alumni and Carroll Halls claim that action has been taken to punish the men responsible for the hall notes, further responsibility must be taken by the men and the university to take steps in correcting the damage done. 
The university should assume the responsibility of following up on residence hall activities to help prevent similar incidents from occurring. More impor­tantly, the men responsible for the notes should be required to work with a women's group (i.e. Women United for Justice and Peace, Feminist Forum, etc.) through the Center For Social Concerns to clear up their misconceptions about women. Only then will they learn the true definition of "a woman." 
ROSEANN YBARRA 
Freshman 

Breen-Phillips Hall 

Rape: Violence not coercion 
two sorts of desires (coercion and sex)..." In other words, your local rapist rapes only because he sees it as a chance to kill two birds with one stone. It is an effi­cient crime for him. If he did not rape, he would instead need to assault some­one and then have sex with someone else. 
This explanation does not account for why a rapist involved in a sexual rela­tionship would seek to rape, instead of just kill which is according to Khawaja, "much less risky." 
Additionally, his analysis fails to take into account any of the facts behind the crime. Many men who rape cannot maintain an erection without assistance from their victims and many cannot ejac­ulate at all (Ibid. p 306). Rapists who have been interviewed admit that sex does not motivate their criminal behav­ior. As one rapist said, "You know, I could get all the sex I wanted because my brother ran a chain of massage parlors. But if they were giving it to me, I wasn't in control. I wanted to take it" (Ibid. p 309). 
I grant Khawaja the fact that not all coercive or violent tendencies result in rape. However, that does not mean that rape is not a violent crime. Rape is one of a panoply of violent crimes. 
Khawaja's letter proves the point that the administration should not remove the passages to which he has objected. I would encourage Khawaja to educate himself about the true nature of rape. Thousands of rapes go unreported in this country every year because of the stigma which is attached to the crime. Victims, who mistakenly believe that rape is a sexually motivated act, fear that they somehow encouraged the rapist. They think that they share in the guilt. This misunderstanding of the motivations behind the crime make it harder to bring rapists to justice. 
NORAPISTEY 
Firt year law srudent 
Off-campus 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the letter submitted by Irfan Khawaja on Tuesday ("Du Lac Confuses Sex, Violence," Oct., 11). In the letter Khawaja argues that the definition of "rape" used in the du Lac residents' guide is erroneous. The letter says that the criticisms of the sec­tion entitled "Information and Support Services for Victims of Rape and Sexual Assault," are not offered in a spirit of acrimony. I charge, however, that they are offered in ignorance. Khawaja dis­misses the definition without serious examination, and then proffers an unsub­stantiated definition of his own. 
On p. 79 du Lac says: "Rape is a crime of violence. It is motivated by the desire to control, dominate, and humiliate, not the desire for sex." Khawaja assumes that the definition is incorrect simply because it does not agree with his intu­itions. The definition offered in du Lac unquestionably matches with the preva­lent psychological understanding of the crime. 
In his book "Psychology and the Legal System," Lawrence Wrightsman notes that "Experts regard rape as a crime of violence not of passion" (p. 303). Even Webster's Dictionary reflects this under­standing of the psychology behind the act defining rape as "a violent or outrageous assault." 
In his cursory evaluation of the defini­tion, Khawaja replaces the word "vio­lence" in the definition with the word "coercion," as if the two are synonymous. The words have different meanings and connotations. Violence is coercion, how­ever, coercion is not always violence. Physical coercion is but one of its many forms. Accepting Khawaja's definitions, however, he still fails to provide a valid criticism of the definition given or a viable substitute. 
Khawaja advances an economic theory to account for the occurrence of rape. According to him, rapists rape because "they see rape as a means of gratifying 



Food Services strikes abroad, even in France 
Dining Hall, Dining Hall, After I received my bi-month­where art thou, my Dining ly stipend, with which I must Hall? How I miss thee, now nourish myself for the following that we are apart! I had two weeks. I quickly decided scorned thee, Dining Hall. Yes, to save some francs and eat at I admit, I laughed at your the RV. After several of us name. No longer shall these meandered across town to the games continue , oh cherished bargain dining experience, we Dining Hall. No longer will I arrived at the RV. So far, so allow others to mock thee, good. We found it. Now, the great Dining Hall. I count the only challenge was buying the days till we meet again, oh vast tickets for the meal. Some of house of selection and nourish­us having only 45 minutes in ment! which to eat and race across town for the 1:30 class, we decided to weave our way through the crowd. In my opinion, every college-aged


Domonique 
French student in the entire 
city of Angers eats at the same 
time. At first glance, I wanted 
to compare it to trying to get 
into gate 17 of the stadium 
before the FSU game last year. 
One would think that spend­Lots of people-not much 
ing a year in France would movement, and we didn't even 
entail at the very least a sam­have the tickets with which to 
pling of the staples of European buy the meal. 
cuisine, if not an occasional After several minutes of push­
indulgence of fme wines, escar­ing and pardoning, we pur­
got, assiette de charcuterie, and chased those good ol' bargain 
baked brie; however, this is not meal tickets and search for the 
the case. end of the line. We lingered 
And so these are my thoughts near the back of the pack and 
upon entering the "Restaurant hope for movement. Twenty­
Universitaire," known among five or so minutes later, we 
the natives as the "RV." It is finally ascended the stairs to 
true that this place is an eating what I hoped was the food. 
establishment. It is also true I thought I had seen the light 
that one can eat here for a rea­at the end of the tunnel when 
sonably low price. It is also only trays and silverware 
true that there is a semi-variety appeared! However, I was 
of food served here. However, quickly brought back down to 
I must stop and define reality. earth upon seeing the "food." 

Schott 
1994-95 participants of Notre Dame's Angers progam. 

And this is when my longing for thought, "Hmmm ... not bad. the North Dinging Hall began. can eat this. It's inexpensive 
We were rationed one dessert and an okay portion." Well, and one entree, or if one want­after a trip to the microwave to ed to be wacky, two desserts or heat up my not-so-chaud meal, two entrees, and of course a it was edible. And they do give plate of the daily specialty. you all-you-can-eat bread. Now, when I say dessert, I do I went back that night with an not mean 'Boston Creme Pie or optimistic attitude. endless soft chocolate chip Hamburgers and fries greeted cookies. I mean one piece of me at the top of the steps. A fruit or a cup of yogurt-maybe good American meal, just what on a good day, an eclair. The I needed! Well, the fries were defmition of entree is one slice not too terrible. But, I only got of cheese or one slice of meat a bowl of lettuce with this "plat or a bit of pate. Then, I chaud:" the dessert/entree walked over to the "Plat Chaud" option did not count. When I sign and was welcomed by cau­sat down and cut into the meat, liflower and chicken. I it started mooing at me, then went off with the greens! Needless to say, I ate a lot of bread that night. 
I've been back a couple of times, but each time my heart yearns for my NDH! How I miss the endless amounts of food. I long for the fruit selection, the bagels, the drinks, the salad ... bar, the pasta bar, the cereals, the cookies, the chocolate-chip muffins! Oh, Dining Hall, how I miss thee! So, my friends enjoy your meal today and go back a second time for me. 
Domonique Schott is a sopho­more French major spending this year in Angers. 

,---~--_---~-----=-~ -~------~-­




__ --_-­
-----_----­

' 
I ­I 
I I I I I 
I
' 
I I I 
I 
I I I I 
I 


page 10 Tuesday, October 18, 1994 
Campus comedy with an Irish Accent 

By TONY POTTINGER 
Accenr Writer 
What has more inside jokes than the Keenan Revue, audience participation, and some of Notre Dame's most talented comedy performers? You're right if you said Irish Accent, the campus' official skit and improv comedy troop. 
Created six years ago by two Sorin freshmen with high school experience in a comedy troop, Irish Accent plays to full houses twice per semester and allows Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to showcase their skills at the art of improvisational comedy. They also participate annually in the Skidmore College National Comedy Festival. 
"We basically do short skits ala Saturday Night Live and improv skits," says William Lajoie, a Flanner junior and co-president of the eleven-member group. "With the improv, we ask ques­tions to the audience and let them set up a situation," he says. 
What follows is spontaneous improvi­sation, resulting often in absurd and hilarious scenarios as each member performing has a different interpreta­tion of the same situation. 
"One improv is called the 'symphony of discontent.' The audience supplies four pet peeves and four emotions," says Kevin Schmitt, a Dillon senior and the other co-president. Another member of the troop then "directs" the four with hand signals so that their levels vary from silence to screaming. 
The group gets the ideas for their skits and improvs from brainstorming sessions. Not surprisingly, much of their material revolves around campus life. "We make fun of the stuff that everyone here at Notre Dame notices. We exaggerate ordinary things to make them funny," explains Karen Lanigan, a junior psychology and French major from Pangborn. 
Irish Accent, however, does not limit itself to inside jokes. A new skit involves The Scooby-Doo Gang of Fred, Daphne, Shaggy, and Wilma appearing on the Rikki Lake show. The charac­ters and their relationships are sati­rized, as are tabloid talk shows in gen­eral. "This skit is a less bit topical and a bit more out there," admits Lajoie. 
Another improv has the audience set up a scene and a director use an invisi­ble remote control to move it along, using commands such as "mute", "slow motion", and "super fast forward." The result is often pandemonium and slap­stick comedy with performers tripping and running into each other. 
Irish Accent meets weekly for a three hour practice. They perform tonight at 9 PM in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Admission is $1. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Irish Accent will perform tonight at 9 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. 
• MEDICAl MINUTE 
Do you party with 'Mary Jane'? If so...What should you know? 
By RYAN J. GRABOW reasons marijuana is a danger­na smoke than cigarette reversible. one knows exactly how PCP 
N.R.E.M.T. ous drug, the active ingredients smoke, it is held in the lungs Sexuality: Studies have {aka "angel dust") works, one are fat soluble. for a longer time, it disrupts shown that heavy marijuana time a person may have no ill 
Long before we came to Simply put, unlike alcohol the lung's pumping and filter­use lowers male and female effects, and the next time it Notre Dame, I'm sure most of which is water soluble and ing action, and because it is hormone levels and effects may seriously damage their us had been lectured to by our leaves your body in a matter of inhaled without a filter, smok­sperm production and egg for­brain. It may cause an individ­parents, teachers, guidance hours, the active ingredient in ing three to five joints a week mation. Due to these effects ual to hallucinate, become vio­counselors, and families about marijuana is is equiva­men often experience a diffi­lent, and hurt others or him­the evils of drug use, especially absorbed ''Theconcern over mari-lent to culty in obtaining and main­self. In any case, the unknown marijuana. Now that we're at into the fatty smoking 16 taining an erection, a composition of marijuana
juana is not solely 

college we have the freedom to organs of cigarettes a decreased sperm count, and should be a major concern. In make our own choices. Since your body: over the short term negative day or 112 abnormal sperm cells, while addition, because marijuana is we're calling the shots, here's the brain {1/3 effects listed above, but a week. many women experience, ir­absorbed by the body a per­an FYI about getting high. fat), testes, Basically, regular menstrual cycles, and son's driving skills are affected
because of the more long

Immediate Effects on the ovaries, liver, with mari­abnormal germ cells (eggs). for four to six hours after Body: If you've ever tried mari­etc. and can term effects it has on the juana your Since women are born with a smoking only one joint. juana (a.k.a. pot, dope, or chances of set number of "eggs," pro­Marijuana and Alcohol a
be detected bodies of habitual users." 
weed) or have been with others in one's s u ffe ring longed habitual marijuana use, Deadly Pair: You may have who have, you know the imme­urine. Because it is absorbed from emphysema or lung can­will most likely cause a perma­heard that marijuana is used diate effects can vary from per­by the body's fat, it takes about cer are much greater than with nent decrease in female's fer­by chemotherapy patients to son to person and hit to hit. one month for all the chemicals cigarettes. In addition, if you tility. These abnormalities may prevent nausea and suppress Reddening of the eyes, dryness in a single joint to clear from smoke both cigarettes and be passed on by either partner the urge to throw-up. Because in the mouth and throat, in­the body. marijuana, the cancer causing in the event of a pregnancy, if of this effect on the body mari­creased heart rate, euphoria, It continues to affect the body effect of both is increased due so the effects will most likely juana and alcohol are a deadly impaired short-term memory both physically and psy­to their combination. be seen in the form of learning combination. Your body makes and ability to communicate, re­chologically until it is all gone. The Heart: Since smoking disorders and slow mental you vomit when you have in­laxation, altered sense of iden­If you ingest more than a single marijuana immediately in­growth. gested a dangerous level of al­tity, distortions of hearing, joint, the chemicals accumulate creases the heartbeat up to Like most drugs, one's toler­cohol. (Puking then passing out vision, and sense of time, in the cells, and the body is 50% and possibly the blood ance to marijuana can be is a defense mechanism). Due hunger (the munchies), lethar­never drug-free, until you quit. pressure as well, it does pose a increased. When this occurs, to smoking marijuana while gy, impaired reaction time and "When chronic users stop threat to individuals who have more is needed to produced drinking heavily, many college motor control, and paranoia or smoking pot, it takes about abnormal heart conditions, in the desired effects, however, students have died because a panic reaction are all com­three months for the addition to those whose heart the negative effects on the their bodies could not get rid of monly experienced. accumulation of chemicals to rates are already elevated due lungs, heart, and brain are also the alcohol quickly enough. 
One cannot die from marijua­clear from the body." to stress or exercise. Doctors increased due to the increase Bottom Line: Marijuana and na use; however, "acute panic Though the high is gone, the also believe that long-term use in usage or concentration. Most drinking don't mix. and anxiety reactions," pot is not. Current urinalysis can contribute to heart disease. users who quit, experience described as intense fears of drug testing can detect mari­The Brain: Experiments have very few if any withdrawal It's time to make educated losing control and going crazy, juana two to three days after shown that after heavy long­symptoms, because the drug, decisions about our lives. You have been experienced after one joint, ten days after daily term marijuana use, the gap which is still absorbed in the owe it to yourself to weigh the one's first hit or due to an use, and up to 20 days after between brain cells may widen, fat, is slowly removed. pros and cons before making unusually large concentration. habitual use of more than five causing slow thoughts and ac­Immediate Dangers: Even your decisions. Some of you
..._ 
Why the Variety? The vary­times daily. tivity, changes in brain cells though one cannot overdose on may still want to argue that ing degree of active ingredients Why all the Fuss? The con­may occur affecting one's emo­marijuana, dangers do exist. there is no non-refutable proof present, the purity of mari­cern over marijuana is not tions, thought processes relat­Since it is an illegal drug and that marijuana is dangerous or juana {other drugs may have solely over the short term neg­ed to understanding may slow subsequently unregulated, you harmful to your health. If so, been added), and the method ative effects listed above, but down, short-term memory may never know what you are ac­remember that before 1930 of ingestion {cigarette, bong, because of the more long term be impaired, and one may ex­tually getting. many believed tobacco was power hitter, or pipe) all play a effects it has on the bodies of perience difficulty in concen­Often times marijuana is cut harmless too. Give the re­part in varying marijuana's ef­habitual users. trating on one topic. This with a cheaper more danger­searchers a chance, by the fects on your body, but the The Lungs: Because there condition called "Burnout," by ous drug such as PCP {a dan­time there is 100% proof, you most important reason for this are almost 50% more cancer marijuana users themselves, gerous animal tranquilizer) for or your kids may be it, and by variety is one of the primary causing chemicals in marijua-may not be completely a more powerful "high". No then it's too late. 
Tuesday, October 18, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
• Cou.EGE fmrrKiAlt 
Chance of five unbeatens on Jan. 2 
By RICK WARNER Associated P cess 
It's college football's night­mare scenario: Five teams go undefeated in the regular sea­son and none meet in a bowl game. 
Sound far-fetched? Well, it could happen. 
How about Penn State in the Rose Bowl, the Nebraska­Colorado winner in the Orange, the Colorado State-Utah winner in the Holiday, Alabama in the Sugar and and Texas A&M on the sidelines? 
Or, if Auburn beats Alabama, scratch The Tide and add the Tigers to the list of unbeatens. 
Like Texas A&M, Auburn is on probation and can't play in a bowl. Both teams are eligible for the national championship in The Associated Press media poll, although probation teams are barred from the USA Today-CNN coaches' poll. 
Five unbeaten teams and no head-to-head competition to compare them because of con­ference commitments or bowl bans. The debates would be endless. 
"It would be wild," said ESPN commentator Beano Cook. "There'd be arguments in ev­ery bar in America." 
The last time five Division 1-A teams had perfect regular sea­sons was 1979, when Alabama, Brigham Young, Ohio State, Florida State and McNeese State did it. They all played in different bowls and they all lost except for national champion Alabama, which beat Arkansas 24-9 in the Sugar Bowl. 
The situation could be more confusing this year because of the NCAA sanctions against No. 4 Auburn (7-0) and No. 6 Texas A&M (6-0). What happens if the probation teams are the only ones left without a loss after the bowls? 
Cook said he might vote for Auburn because the Tigers would have completed their second straight 11-0 season. They finished fourth in the AP poll last season behind a trio of once-beaten teams, including national champion Florida State. 
"If they're allowed to play, their games should count," Cook said. "You can't ignore a team that goes two years with­out a loss" 
Cook's ESPN colleague, Lee Corso, disagrees. 
"Probation teams should not win the national championship because they can't take the last step, which is winning a bowl game," Corso said. 
So who's got the inside track to the title? 
Is it top-ranked Penn State (6­0). which leads the nation in scoring and just beat Michigan at Ann Arbor? 
Is it No. 2 Colorado (6-0), which has already beaten four teams that were ranked at the time they played. 


Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
ARE YOU STAYING IN SOUTH BEND OVER FALL BREAK? Come join us at the Center for the Homeless. We need your help in many areas: front desk, children's activities, tutoring, and kitchen duties. Come down and spend your free time with us. There are many people who would appreciate your volunteer effort, and don't think that you won't get anything out of it, tool CALL FELICIA AT 282-8700 
It's DeReamer's Birthday!! Happy 21st, Amy!!! 
USED BOOKS & CLIFF'S NOTES 
Pandora's Books 233-2342 
NO Ave & Howard M-Sa/1 0-6 
Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store 

ILOST&FOUNDI 
LOST STUDENT 1.0. NEAR GATE 15 ON SAT. 10/1. REWARD. CALL 287-4546. THANK YOU. 
••••• $50 REWARD ••••• 
For the RETURN of or information 
leading to the RETURN of two 
CO's: Pearl Jam "No F--in' 
Messiah" and Nirvana "All 
Acoustically". Please call 272­
4021. 
Lost a silver adjustable ring with arabic inscriptions on it. Great per­sonal significancance. Maybe lost in the vincinity of thelibrary. Contact Chris X-1868 
Found: Bike-lock key 
October 12 9:00pm 
between Farley and NOH 
call Eric x1 087 
FOUND!!! Reading glasses accom­
panied with a turquoise(sp?) 
colored glass case. Found just out­
side the ROTC building. Please 
Call 'Dog at x1670 
or the D.O.C. x1352 
thanx, ceuh ceuh ceuh 
LOST: A black camera last seen at the Linebacker. Please call Laura at X2718-REWARDIII 
LOST: small blue topaz/diamond 
ring somewhere between C1 lot 
and library. Call Jennifer at 273­
4516 Cash reward if found 
LOST-grey tent was last seen out­
side PE. call x4544 

WANTED 
•$•$•$•$"$"$"$"$"$•$•$•$•$•$•$• FASCINATING CONVERSATION\ 
Looking for a ride from NO to 
Milwaukee Thursday night October 
Please Call Pierre x1184 
·$·$·$·$·$·$·$·$·$·$·$·$·$•$•$• I need a ride to PA for fall break. will share expenses. Kathryn x4550 
SITTER NEEDED Tuesdays from 2:45-5:30.MUST have car. Ages 5,7,12.Piease call Cathy@ 277­9661. Possible add'l hours.$5/hr. 
Need a ride back from MN after Oct. break. Will help w/ driving & $. Please call! Meagen X2764 
I need a ride to Boston plse call at 271-1586 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ment available. No experience nec­essary. For more information calll­206-634-0468 ext. C55841 
TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK '951 LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE. 
BOOK EARLY AND SAVE$$$! ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL 
FREE! SUN SPLASH TOURSl­
800-426-771 0 
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 
1 (800)359-9808 
• I desperately NEED 1 Navy GA • 
• 
for my newlywed best friend. 

• 
PLEASE CALL 4-4320 


BABYSITTER -2 children 1-2 half days per wk. Occasional evenings. $5.00 hr. 272-5029 
HELP!Need your non-rat infested 
basement for my band to practice. 
Will pay I play in return. Julie 273 
0182. 

FOR RENT 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­773-2034 

FOR SALE 
486 Tenex multimedia tower com­puter & monitor. Loaded with many windows programs. $1400 OBO Laurie 291-4888 
One way plane ticket: South Bend­Chicago-D.C. Leaving Fri.10/21 $60 call Stacey x2939 
Mac Plus, Harddrive, and Image Writter II for sale. $400. Call x3342. 
'94 Deluxe Plymouth Voyager, 
leather interior, loaded, 10,000 
miles, assume loan, $21 ,BOO. Call 
233-8855 
For Sale T-Shirts $4 Call277-7131 
Plane ticket Nov4 $50 Chi-Hous-San Fran Eric 1 087 
I have 4 roundtrip plane tix to Orlando that leave the Thurs. before FSU. Each ticket is $200 or best offer. Call Trout at 271-1390. 


TICKETS 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. 272-6551 
FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL HOME GAMES. 272-7233. 
I need one Air Force GA or student ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please call X3822. Thanks\ 
I NEED NAVY GA'S 
MARKX1640 
I NEED FSU TIX 
KEVIN @ X3457 
I need 2 GAs for Navy. Please call 
Kristine at 4-3806. Thank you 
VERY MUCH! 
NEED 1 STUD. & 2 GA'S FOR AIR 
FORCE. CALL LOU @ 233-4008. 
$$$$$Help! I need Air Force GAs. Please call Gina at 277-0740.$$$$$ 
I have 4 roundtrip plane tix to Orlando that leave on the Thursday before the FSU game. I'll sell them for $200 or best offer. Call Trout at 271-1390. 
I NEED NAVY GAs. CALL WENDY @ X4708 
Need 6 Navy Ga's 
Bill271-9471 
Desperately need 1 NAVY TICKET for mylittle brother. Please call Becky x2526. 
Need 1 Navy (GA or SOT) tic for my little sis. CALL BRIAN X3526 
NEEDED: GA's for NAVY. 
Call Steve at 4-1909. 
need 4 navy GAs, 2 air force GAs, 
1 st. air force. help-Matt 4327 
Need 2 Navy GAs Call Tony at 
634-4532. 
I am selling 4 Navy GA's!!l Call 
Heather at 4-1337 
FSU FSU FSU 
2GA's 
Best Offer by 8 PM Wed 
x1955 
I have two Navy GA's. Need 'em? 
Call Jen x4281 
Loyal NO alum needs 2 Navy GAs x1359 
$$$$$$ Navy GA's NEEDED for Family Call Marc 233-4008 $$$$$$$$ 
I need 4 Navy GA's Call Andy @2071 
Need many Navy tix Stud or GA's This is for a great cause, my family will be here. I love my family & I'll love you too if you sell me your tix. Please, with sugar on top, call Charlie at x3830 
It's my dad's 50th Birthday and I want to make his day. You can help mel! Sell me 
FOUR AIR FORCE GAS 
Please????!! Thanks. Michelle 284-5512 
Need GA's to Air Force and Navy\ Please call4-1330. 
FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED\ 
NEED:4NAVY 
4STANFORD CONTACT SEAN TRACY 222 GRACE 4-1861 
I need 4 GA's for the Airforce Game. Call Ashley 284-4310. 
Thanks. 
I will be your best friend for a BYU GA or student ticket. (There's also money involved). Call Cara. 284­4310. 
NEED 1 or 2 NAVY GA-willing to 
buy or trade for air force GA. call 
ann x4544 
nEEd 2 BYU 2 AF 1 NAVY &3 Any gameStuorGA CaiiTom@-1410. 
Need: GA's and Student Tix 
For Air Force. Will pay Big Bucks! 
Call Liz 273-2179. Thanks! 
NEED NAVY GA so FREAK 
FRIEND'II drive me back after 
break: Nate X3252 
FOR SALE: 2 NAVY GA'S 
NEED: 3 FSU TICKETS 
PLEASE HELP ME-KELLEY 
X3427!!11!! 
WANTED: OneGA or 
Student Ticket 
for 
NAVY 
Call Norm @ 634-1023 
NEED AF GA'S OR STUD TIX X3098 NeedAF GA Will pay top $$$ x1751 
Selling one Navy GA: will take best offer by wed. Norm x3914 
NEED 1 AF & 1 NAVY GA. CALL JOSE 1661. 
I NEED 1 NAVY GA BADLY MIKE X42210 
For sale stu tix Navy & Air Force 30 $ ea 272-5674 
I need NAVY GA's and Students call Mike @ 4x1899 or 4x1890 
I need 4 GAs for Navy. Call Tim at 4-3580 
HELP!! I need one student ticket for my little sister for Navyll Call John X2213 
Need 2 Air Force GA's Jennifer 
X2448 
I HAVE NAVY STUDS CALL KEVIN @271-7428 


PERSONAL 
THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune Student Center now accepts VISA, MC, and MAC cards for your copying needs. 
Female Grad Students 
Need 1 more roommate-
Oak Hill $300/mo. 273-6153 
NEED ride to Syracuse, NY for fall 
break!!! Steve Crowley 287-6380 
Confidential Support Meeting for Lesbian and Bisexual students at SMC will be held Wed. night at 9pm call 289-4063 or the Q-line 287­6665 for more info. 
Looking for RIDERS to share $ for 
drive to Durham, NC area for Oct 
Break. Will stop along way. Call 
Marc 233-4008 
Happy 21st, SWAYKUS!!\!1 Happy Birthday, Sarah, We know you're a slut . You're crusty and you're tactless And you've got a big butt!! With Love, your favorite flatmates 
Need a ride to D.C. or anywhere 
close for fall break. Call John at 
4289 if you can help. 
yucca fest that went awary: 
tastes a little too much tequila 
she bit my lip, new shirt bloodened 
hey wigs, one date per person 
bootapalooza '94 bezatch 
wafting okie, "waltz king" 
tell this guy I'm an RA 
who dropped the yucca? (wigs) 
Shaf, sure you're not_? 
hey dirty, mac it up some more 
house it up, sleep in the john 
Yucca: make it, they will come 
(Fisher 3:16) 
DEREAMER IS 21 IIIII Happy birthday to you Happy birthday to you Happy birthday dear Amy Happy birthday to YOU! hope you make it to clinicals tomor­rowmoming! 
DEREAMER IS 21 !!! 
Have you ever responded to those "Need a Ride" signs? Have you ever hitched a ride home or given a ride to someone who lives in your home state? If you answered yes to this and if you have any funny, crazy, scary, etc. stories about the adventure/trip home, call me. I'm writing a feature about this for the Accent page and I need you stories. Patti 284-4310. 
Quality Copies, Quickly\! I 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
I need a ride to Urbana, IL on Oct. 
21. Will help with expenses. Call Rob x-4333 
Matt -Little Red Squirrel wishes you a very happy birthday!lll 

THANK YOU ST. JUDE from an '88 alum who needed your ·help 
VISIT ORLANDO! Notre Dame/FSU game weekend. ECONO LODGE CENTRAL-1 mile from stadium. $48 +tax (Advance Res. Rate) $3 R.T. Shuttle. Large, clean rooms, pool, HBO, ESPN, Fast Eddie's Bar & GriiiB00-293-7234. 
Top Ten Quotes From the Papa House 10/15-10/16 
10) Did you hear that this is getting busted? 
9) Please stop twirling me! 
8) Mana!\I!! 
7) You don't mind if I spill beer into this speaker do you? 
6) Are you o.k.? 
5) We did 30 shots ... of beer! 
4) Someday I'm going to invent a detachable p-. After all, it's not fair that it's so convenient for me and not for you ... 3)Bring me water...NOW! 
2) Weren't you leaving an hour ago? 
1) Claudia, get off the stairslll 
Do you know Amy DeReamer?? Don't forget to wish her a Happy Birthday!! 
sshh, quiet, this is a library II (crunch, crunch, crunch), & ifs not a dance club either II 
T minus 3 days and counting .... yipee I weehoo I yyyess I 
please,be careful when rising and shining (hee hee) 
sorry girts, brain's full =( 
----~--­

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 18, 1994
r 
I 
"I think the 4-4-2 helps pre­
• SMC VOU..EVBALL 
vent quick counter attacks,


Soccer 

which we've been burned by
I 
continued from page 16 lately," notes Dean. "Adding a
Belles' adrenaline too short
I 
I 
stopper helps balance our
the Irish pummeled Bowling 
attack and prevents us from
Green 3-1. The long absent 
getting caught off guard and

lived, swept in three by U. Indy 
offense finally reappeared and 
out manned on defense." 
By JENNIFER LEWIS obtain the last point, surren­offense with ease. 
complemented the always 
Saint Mary's Sporn Editor dering to the Greyhounds 14-"Our players are thinking-I 
dependable defense. Now, the 
Even with the sudden reemer­
16. don't want to be the one to 
Irish must continue to improve, 
gence of the offense, the main­
Saint Mary's volleyball has "The team we started out make the error," said 
especially in developing consis­
stay of the Irish still rests with­
got to start believing in them­with," said Schroeder-Biek, " Schroeder-Biek. "When they 
tency in their offense. 

in the defense. This point was
selves, if they want to win, was not the team we finished should be thinking-I'm the one 
"It's the hope of every team to 
further emphasized last week
according to coach Julie the match with." that wants to make the kill. 
peak at the right time. We 
when the defense earned their
Schroeder-Biek. In the second game the Sara Stronzcek lead the 
hope to continue our progress 
sixth shutout on the season and
The (11-12) Belles could not Belles came up from behind Belles with only fourteen kills. 
and peak during the tourna­
get passed the division II (12-(2-8) and pulled ahead 13-12 Meg Kelly had seven kills and 
dropped their goals allowed to 
ment (Midwest Conference
9) University of Indianapolis in only to let the Greyhounds Betsy Connolly only had six. 
.845 per game. Goalkeeper
tournament)," commented
yesterdays game. At one point take the lead away and win Saint Mary's grew tired in 
Bert Bader was named the
Dean.

in the first game, Saint Mary's the game 13-15. Saint Mary's the third game they were get­
Midwestern Conference player
Part of the Irish's turn around
was up 14-6. However, you was reluctant to spike the ball, ting blocked and were low on 
of the week for his outstanding
cannot win the game unless instead they gave Indianapolis the net. Indianapolis swept 
could be attributed to the 
play verse SMU and Bowling
you score fifteen points and numerous free ball and tips, them in three, making the 
switch from a 3-5-2 system of 
Green, saving eight and six
the Belles were unable to allowing them to set up their fmal score 15-4. 
alignment to a 4-4-2 scheme. 
shots respectively. 


corporations, their answers were given freely and were always 
informative. Another surprise was meeting so many people who are just as 
'The people at Ernst & Young 


possess an unquestionable 
motivated as I am. All the technical know-how in the universe isn't as important as possessing the desire to apply it. And when you're 

amount of knowlaige. So, 
made to feel like part of the team, as I was, there's a certain electricity that develops as you move closer to finding the most resourceful
as an intern, Ihad no choice 
solutions for each client's unique situation. Everyone works together, sharing knowledge and maintaining a mutual "there's always a better 
but to ask alot of questions:' 
way" attitude that I think is highly unusual in a firm this size. Actually, there are several unusual things about Ernst & Young,"Fortunately for me, I always got answers. And this summer, during which, I'm convinced, is what keeps them on the cutting edge. They my internship at Ernst & Young, I did everything I could to make the support their staff with a rare commitment to technologicalmost of them. My name is Clay Scheetz, and I just spent three of the advancement. The firm also fosters positive attitudes toward workmost productive months of my life experiencing the real-life challenges by developing flex-schedules for employees. It's a way of letting those of working for a large professional services firm. 
who have unusually demanding personal obligations balance their I learned more than I thought possible in such a short time. 
personal and professional lives. People enjoy working here. It'sTo begin with, I found myself working on proJ..::cts I wouldn't have obvious. And I did, too. Now, if anyone questions me about what expected for an intern. The work seemed more suited for a higher internship I recommend, you know I'll have only one answer:level staff person. That meant a lot to me. It gave me the tools-and Ernst & Young.
confidence-to think for myself; to not be afraid to ask for help when needed. The professionals at Ernst & Young always had time for me. And in the middle of preparing demanding audits for major ill ERNST& YOUNG LLP 

Tuesday, October 18, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 

Vermin top Dawgs, Zahm bests St. Ed's for second straight win 
By JACK MACLEOD Sports Writer 
Anthony Laboe. Chad Harrison. Stefan Borso. If you want to know why Carroll de­feated Alumni, these names are your answer. 
Chad Harrison played a stellar game at quarterback. In the first half he completed three out of four passes, including a 20 yard scoring strike to fresh­man receiver Todd Kuczaj on the opening drive of the game. Harrison spent the day evading the constant rush of Alumni defenders Jim Delaney and Mike Den vir, but was probably the only quarterback on cam­pus who did not throw an inter­ception this weekend, including Ron Powlus. 
Anthony Laboe was Mr. Everywhere. On defense, Laboe made numerous open field tackles from his position at cor­nerback and intercepted a pass to stall an Alumni drive. 
On the offensive side of the ball, he had 100 yards-45 receiving and 55 rushing. Big plays by Laboe set up both scores for the Vermin. 
After Alumni tied the game late on a touchdown pass from Conrad Hansen to Dan Morrison, Laboe caught a pass from Harrison to set up the game winning field goal. 
Enter the injured Stefan Borso. Despite a broken hand, Borso stepped in and split the uprights to give the Vermin a 10-7 victory over one of the league's best teams, ending their regular season record at 3-0-1. 
The Vermin will enter the 

s
' 
~ I
, 
, , 

, (, 
I , ' I
~ 
I 
, ~ 
,
' 
4 
I ~ 
' 
I , 
,
' 
~~ 
' 
I , 
I I 
, 
~I 
I 
playoffs as the favorite to win in the stadium. 
''I'd say we have a decent chance of winning there," Laboe said. 
Their chances will be even better if he can repeat his per­formance against Alumni. 
Fisher 22, Sarin 0 
Can you say total domination? 
The Fisher Green Wave can, and they said it loudly on Sunday as they man-handled the overmatched Sorin Otters in a game that should have ended at halftime because of the skunk rule. 
In a well-balanced, multi­weapon offensive attack, Fisher racked up 22 points in the first half. They seemed to move at will on the ineffective Otter defense, alternating between a ball control type of ground game and a deep threat air attack. 
Fisher quarterback Brian Hertz was the key to their offense. After throwing a 30 yard touchdown pass to Mike Carrol, he pitched to running back Jose Cortes on 10 yard scoring sweep. Finally, Hertz scrambled into the endzone for the last touchdown of the game. 
Then, in a statement not only 
to Sorin but to the rest of the 
league, the Green Wave opted 
to go for the two point conver­
sion. Hertz found Dan McGinty 
with a lob pass, and the offen­
sive onslaught had come to a 
close. 
Sorin had little hope of com­
ing back. Their best chance 
came when they intercepted a 
pass on the Fisher five yard 
line, but four plays later they had lost enough yards to be out of field goal range. 
"We have improved on offense, particularly in disci­pline and execution," captain Chris Lary said after the im­pressive display. 
With the victory, Fisher's record culminates at 2-2, enough to get them into the playoffs. 
Zahm 6, St. Ed's 0 
The key to Zahm football this year is defense. Once again this week the defense held its opposition scoreless, continuing their season long shutout streak. 
The Zahm defense riddled St. Ed's quarterback with frequent sacks forcing poor throws that fell either incomplete or into the hands of Zahm defenders. The St. Ed's running game was strong as usual, led by tailback Mike Norbut, but without the ability to successfully pass, the Zahm defense knew to expect the run and therefore had little trouble containing it. 
The inconsistent Zahm pass­
ing attack once again combined 
flashes of greatness with terri­
bly thrown balls. The bright 
spot on offense came when 
quarterback Benji Hammond 
rolled out, evaded several St. 
Ed's defenders, and then found 
Rick Rios who scampered the 
final ten yards into the endzo.ne 
for the game's only score. · 
Zahm is still alive because of its impenetrable defense, and has finished the season on a two game win streak. 

TAKE A STUDY BREAK! 
graduates & undergraduates 



UNITED(fflJ 
In honor of National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week all graduate and undergraduate students are invited to 

DANCE 


Thursday, October 20th 9 PM til Midnight LaFortune Ballroom 
Snacks, Beverages (mocktails -virgin Margarita's & Daiquiri's), D.J. 
Sponsored by: 
Graduate Student Union, Undergraduate Student Government, Notre Dame Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education, Flipside, S.A.D.D. 

The ClbMNer~ike Hungeling 

Alumni senior QB Conrad Hanson airs it out Sunday as the Dawgs lost 
to No. 1 Carroll10-7. 

Wo01en 
continued from page 16 
despite a sore shoulder. We really played well on both sides of the ball." 
Off Campus heads to the post season playoffs by finishing second in the Blue Division with a 4-1-1 record. Defending champion PW fell short of their playoff quest and concluded the year with a 2-2-2 mark. 
Lewis 0 Pasquerella East 0 
Paul "Bear" Bryant once said "a tie is like kissing your sis­ter." However, since both Lewis and Pasquerella East earned post season playoff berths, puckering up is far from an awkward situation. 
Just as it has been all season, defense was the name of the game for PE and Lewis. Both teams were able to move the ball consistently for most of the game. However, the defenses took over when the offenses crept near the goalline. 

PE had already clinched a playoff spot, but Lewis came into the game needing at least a tie to secure a position in postseason. The Pyros seri­ously threatened the Chicken playoff chances with a scoring opportunity late in the second half. 
PE drove the ball to the Lewis 20-yard line and Pyro quarter­back Kristen Doty found a streaking Marina Alkidas wide open over the middle, and she was on her way to an apparent touchdown. 
However, Chicken captain and defensive back Tracy Cote came from nowhere to track Alkidas down and provide Lewis with the game saving tackle. As it was, the PE drive stalled out at the Chicken 5­yard line with just under two minutes remaining. 
Lewis captured the fourth and final playoff spot with a 3-2-1 record, and PE finished the regular season with a 2-1-3 mark. The times and dates for the teams' first playoff games have yet to be determined. 
God gives each 
person one lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana46556 (219) 631-6385 
..... page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 18, 1994 
• MEN's bnERHAll 

Stanford shutouts Dillon, secures tie for first 
(3) 

By NEIL ZENDER 
SportS Writer 
For Chris Pollina and the Stanford running attack, it was a usual day at the office. For Dillon's Big Red, it was like one of Wes Craven's nightmares. Pollina and company ran all over the Big Red for a 16-0 win on Sunday. 
Dillon was unable to stop the potent Studs ground game. Pollina racked up 106 yards on just eleven carries. His back­field mate John Mele picked up 46 yards on 9 totes. Stanford's fullhouse backfield of Pollina, Mele, and Doug Pollina racked up 149 yards. Chris Pollina has justified confidence in the ground game. 
"Our running styles are very complementary. Then you throw Doug in, and you have a slashing style. We all have really low centers of gravity that help us." 
He gives much of the credit to the offensive line. 
"They just open up holes. They make it look a lot easier than it is." 
Stanford took the lead on their first possession of the game, a ten play fifty-yard drive that culminated in Chris Pollina launching into the end zone from a yard out. Pollina had runs of 19 and 18 yards that put the Studs in scoring posi­tion. 
Kris Kazlauskas' blocked kick left Stanford with a 6-0 lead. 
The Studs' second score came towards the end of the fourth quarter. Taking over at the Dillon 31, Pollina's 26 yard run brought them into Big Red ter­ritory. 
After a Mike Brown to Doug Pollina pass brought Stanford to the 1, Mele took over and plowed his way across the goal to clinch the game at 16-0. 
Stanford dominated the game, limiting Dillon to a paltry 2 yards rushing, and garnering 11 first downs to the Big Red's 
3. However, the Big Red did not play a bad football game by any means. They played a tough, physical, and scrappy ball game. Even though their running game was stifled, Dillon still managed to chisel a few chinks in Stanford's armor through the air. Stefan Molina completed four passes for 56 yards. 
Defensively, Stanford was boosted by the spectacular play of unher•alded Turnover Machine Charlie Alger. Arguably the best Free Safety in the league, Alger's intercep­tion at the end of the first half set up Kazlauskas' 39 yard field goal that gave the Studs a 9-0 lead. It was Alger's fifth inter­ception of the year. 
Stanford ends the season with a 3-1 record, and will gear up for the playoffs. Dillon (0-3} closes their season against Grace on Wednesday. 
Dillon falls to 0-3. Stanford finishes the season at 1-1. 
Flanner 6 Morrissey 0 
There's nothing greater than winning. Except maybe beating the other guy at his own game. 
That's something Flanner expe­rienced on Sunday, as they rammed the football down Morrissey's throat 6-0. 
Flanner beat the Manor at its own game, doubling the de­fending Interhall Champion's rushing yardage. Running back Steve Hrovat and Matt Beaujon both picked up 35 yards, and scrambling quarterback Scott Lupo added 21. Flanner also doubled Morrissey's first down total, 7 to 3. 
The Manor's vaunted ball­control attack didn't have much control to it. Morrissey's of­fense was out of sync for almost the entire game. 
"You've got to give the credit to our defense. Our linebackers played really well. We stuffed them up front. We made it dif­ficult for them to run, so they had to go to the pass. They completed quite a few towards the end, made us a letter ner­vous, but they beat Stanford, and Stanford's one of the best teams out here for sure," Flanner Captain Too Keller said. 
Morrissey lost thirty-five yards to penalties. Flanner was only penalized once. 

"We practice a lot. We don't jump offsides, and we're pretty well disciplined," Keller said. 
The game turned in the third quarter. Manor quarterback John Polk was intecepted by Josh Quinn giving Flanner the ball at the Morrissey 24. Three Hrovat runs brought them down to the 11. Then, Beaujon blew down to the one, and Hrovat plowed into the end zone from there. However, Flanner's two point conversion failed, leaving them with a vul­nerable 6-0 lead. 
Morrissey's offense finally threatened at the end of the fourth quarter. Polk completed a ten-yard pass to Mark Nicholson that put the ball on the Flanner 39. Another con­nection with Nicolson put the ball on the 25, but it was too late, and time ran out on the Manor. 
Flanner accomplished what it wanted on the field. "We didn't give up any big plays." Keller said. 
Siegfried 4-0-2 
. Off-Campus (6)4-l..l 5. Lewis (9) 3-2-1 6. P.E. (4) 2-l-3 7. Walsh (1) 4-2 8. Badin (10) 3-2 ?· P.W. (7) 2-.2-2 10. B.P. (8) 2-3 )1. Howard (12) 1-4 
··· Farley (11)"< 0-4-l 'Naugh (13) . . 0-5 .Knott (14) < ,~~:;:'o:-5 ~rik~d) 
t 

FACULTY 
NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S SINGLES GROUP 
Social gatherings of single faculty have been sponsored since 1992. Regular gatherings take place on the third Thursday of each month. Come and meet new and continuing colleagues, single, divorced or widowed. 
REGULAR MONTHLY GATHERING 
Thursday, October 20 5:30 -6:30 p.m. Lounge of the Morris Inn 
Also: On November 17 at the INN at St. Mary's On December at a member's home-Christmas Party 
Please, 
For further information call John Gerber, C.S.C 1-8601
Recycle The 
or JoAnne bunnage 1-4617 
Observer 
Co-sponsored In; the Si11gles Group and Campus Mitzistn; 

HOCKEY ENTHUSIASTS! 

kinko•s® 
The Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for volunteers to help with our Youth Hockey 
the copy center 
Tough to beat. 
League again this hockey season. We are 
2202-C South Bend Ave. 
having an informational meeting tonight and 
Greenwood Plaza 
tomorrow night at the Ice Box from 7:00-9:00, 

each night. It is not necessary to attend both 
271·0398 At Kinko's, our staff of professionals, service and 
nights. We are looking for some students who 
state-of-the-art equipment are TOUGH TO BEAT. 
have some skating ability, are reliable, depend­
109 E. Jefferson At Notre Dame, come see how TOUGH TO BEAT the Notre 
able and enjoy being around energetic children. 
Jefferson Centre Dame women's soccer team is when it plays host to Ohio 
For further information, please call the hockey 234-8709 State this Friday at 5:00 p.m. 
hotline @ 277-7519 and leave a message. 
~­
Tuesday, October 18, 1994 The Observer· TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
looA"\ 0r<L'1: l::>1FFeJ!.€.NT (1\AjOit'S A.r<o \>1€.•<> H•"'"-"'oltO. · 
f-'F.li-~_L€_:!lllS . 
..Now FoRT>IIS ~PU, (t-Ass., r WA"' ~·" (o C•Mfl\lt€. 1\.... D (or<t"F'A~T (o,..pi\11-•Ng f\r<D C•r<Tf2.ASTI"' c:, ... 
../ 
'f.N_qlr<€€ ~~~-~~ ... 
... 1\PPAf!.W'"'l S•"'"-6,u"\
Ou..-IN (1\P.C.•LL 1\t '))I'D TilE. Ll\8 ... L£,-'s G,o (of"\ 
fl2.•"' \-\•<"· / 
15~·· 
f'lo,No S..-e:v~­~ov l,".H~.rl'f OuT~It>E. T~E-l,.oHE-5 1\(qll•"'"
'-.....___ 
SCOTT ADAMS


EXECUTIVE BOARD ROOM 
1-------------1~ 
<.J 
OUR COMPETITORS ARE ~ 
rM BRINGING IN DOGBERT TO FIRE EI"\PLOYEE5 
HOW 
I'D BEITER 
WILL TI-\E. 
FOF\M A TASK 




South Dining Hall: North Dining Hall: Turkey Philly Steak Sandwich Irish Fried Sole Country Fried Steak Roti.ni w/Spring Vegetables Baked Orange Roughy 
Lunch and Dinner Food Court 

SaintMary's _ . f:tf .. For menu infoimat;ion. call 284-4500 
Have something to say ? Use Observer classifieds 
" 
.. 
.. 

40 English novelist Hammond­
41 Flow forth 42 Detection device 
44 Take offense at 47 Move stealthily 48Speech impediment 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Not fully shut 5 Penalty 9Ragu 
competitor 14 Richness 15 Irish Rose lover 16 Prepared 
potatoes, in a way nPOUND 20 Denials 21 Computer insert 22 Discharges 23 Earring site 
24 "Ain't She Sweet?" composer 
25 Guarantee 28 Scottish Highlander 
32 RAND 
34 Knock the socks off 
35 Away from the wind 
36 Sorority 
character 37 Muslim officers 38 Calif. neighbor 39 SCHILLING 43 Love-lies· 
bleeding, for one 45 Parsons' places 
46 Inventor Rubik 47 "The Sweetest Taboo" singer 
48 Timmy's dog 
51 Pulitzer winner Quindlen 
52 Take to court 55 YEN 58 Really hurt 59 Iron or foot 
preceder &o Singer Pinza &1 Servings of ale 62 Profits, 
informally 63 Antiprohibition· ists 
DOWN 
1 Wyoming's Simpson 
2 O'Casey play "-and the Paycock" 
3 Turning point 4 "Losing My Religion" rock 
group 5 Bullet size 6 More than 
flabby 7Swim's 
alternative a Gumshoe 9 Offspring 
10 Stairway parts 11 Old French coins 12 Goldfinger 
portrayer Frobe 13 Lyric poems 18 Think the world 
of 19 Permitted 23 Time co-founder 24 To whom a caliph prays 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Puzzle by Janet R. Bender 
25 Turkish city 26 Western capital 2719831ndy 
winner Tom 28 Work behind the plate 29 Biblical gift 
bearer 30 Cognizant 31 Hornets' homes 33 Fistfight 37 Bad marks? 39Rinds 
49 Prefix with skid 50 Throw for a loop 51 Jean Auel 
heroine 52 Capacity 53 Military group 54 Selves 56 Small lizard 57 Unused 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 





SPORTS 

• fOOTBAll. 
page 16 Tuesday, October 18, 1994 
Holtz calls meetings to rid team of 'cancer' 
the team. ''I've been meeting with players indi­inspirational speaker. One player said it Sources say Michael Friday before the BYU game Holtz told vidually but for a variety of reasons," had been assumed for several days that his players, "there is a cancer on this Holtz said. "To say there is a cancer on Miller was no longer with the Irish. Miller dismissed team and the only way to remove a can­this team, that is ridiculous. We have no While Miller's college career appears cer is to cut it out." more problems than any normal team over, it is likely that a few players willfrom team It was a reference to an earlier state­that is losing." transfer to other schools. ment Holtz made concerning the atti­A source said that the meetings could "There are certain obligations of being 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
tude of several underclassmen. A result in the dismissal of some players. at Notre Dame and if people can't meet 
Sports Editor 
source said Holtz expressed his distaste One player who appears off the Irish those obligations, then I've been telling for the attitude of some players and how squad is senior Michael Miller. The them that I would be happy to help themNotre Dame head coach Lou Holtz 
it prevented the Irish from developing a much-troubled wide receiver did not transfer," Holtz said. 
took the first step toward removing what 
team atmosphere. The source also said practice the majority of last week and Notre Dame's coach also dismissed
he called a "cancer" on the Irish football 
that the players called into meetings did not play in Saturday's 21-14 loss to several walk-ons Monday, but left the
squad by meeting with 20-30 players 
yesterday were predominately under­BYU. He met with Holtz Sunday but was door open for those players to return to
Monday to evaluate their standing with 
classmen. not with the team Monday to hear an the team in the spring. 


The Observer/Eric Ruethling 

• 
0-C downs P.W.,
Men hit the road to face DePaul 
By JARED PATZKE 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team is yet to win a game on the road, in fact, they are yet to score a goal away from Alumni Field. The Irish look to end this five game losing streak and scoring drought as they pre­pare to travel to Illinois to take on Depaul today at 4:00 p.m. 
The Blue Demons could very well be the answer to the Irish's traveling woes. Notre Dame has historically had its way with the Blue Demons, winning all 14 of their previous match-ups. Domination would best describe the Irish's success against Depaul, out scoring them by a combined score of 63-3, no misprint, which includes a 7-0 shellacking of the Blue Demons last year. 
Despite this huge advantage in past statistics, senior full­back Chris Dean is still looking for Depaul to pose problems for the Irish. "Depaul is a com­pletely new team this year. 

By MICHAEL DAY Spons Writer 

Oh, what a difference one play makes. Just when it appeared Pasquerella West was driving to tie the score, Off Campus captain Kelly Guerin turned the game around with the play of the night. 
Guerin intercepted a Carrie Wieneke pass and ran it back 45 yards for a touchdown to help spark Off Campus to an 18-13 victory. It wasGuerin's third interception return for a 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
touchdown this season. 

Captain Chris Dean and his Irish hit the road to face Depaul today. 
PW, playing for a possibleThey're always tough to play on games Notre Dame was search­
playoff berth, jumped off to a the road because they play on ing for a glimpse of their old 
great start. The Purplesuch a small field we really selves, that glimpse came while 
Weasles put together a solid have to adjust to it." playing one of their best match-
six-play, 52-yard drive, A victory on the road could es of the year tieing SMU,the 
capped by 20-yard touchdown very well be the final indicator 1Oth ranked team in the nation, 
pass from Wieneke to Sarah that the Irish have fully recov-0-0. 
Rapp.ered from their mid-season Building off the SMU game, 
Following the successful skid. After loosing four of five 
opening drive, both the PW 
see SOCCER I page 12 


Lewis. playoff-bound 
offense and defense seemed to go on vacation, as orr Campus scored 18 unan­swered points. 
Sarah Donnely finished off a short drive with a 10-yard touchdown run to tie the game at six, and wideout Michelle Drury extended the 0-C lead to 12-6 with a 15­yard touchdown run off a reverse. PW regrouped and drove the ball from their own 20 to the Off Campus 45-yard line. However, Guerin's ensu­ing interception ended all hopes of a Purple Weasle comeback. and at the same time, erased PW's slim playoff chances. 
"It was a great team win for us," echoed the Off Campus coaching staff. "Allison Coit played a great game at nose tackle, and Yvonne McCray gave some killer blocks 
see WOMEN/ page 13 

Montana Magic at Mile High 
MEN'S INTERHALL 
Carroll finishes the regular season atop the 
Joe Montana marched the Chiefs 
poll, while Stanford clinches division tie. 
to a gamewinning TD. Nothing 
See pages 13-14 
changes. 




