~---------~--~­
~--------------------------------~------------~.•.~.•.•.----~----~----~~------------------­

Wednesday, January 12, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 66 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

ND makes pilgrimage to Dallas 
By JOHN LUCAS 
Associate News Editor 
A crowded car rolled into Memphis at 4 a.m. While the gates of Graceland were locked, it didn't prevent Notre Dame senior John Neal and friends from paying their respects. 
"It was just one of those things," he said. "You have to pay homage to the King." 
After their stop in Memphis, Neal and friends re-joined the national caravan of Notre Dame faithful making their own pilgrimage to Dallas, where the Fighting Irish still had hopes of becoming the king of college football. 
Over 12,000 Irish fans, in­cluding 1,300 students, at­tended the game, according to Charles Lennon, director of the Alumni Association. 
Lennon and his staff mas­terminded the Notre Dame hos-
see BOWL I page 4 


By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
By extending its agreement with NBC to telecast all Notre Dame home football games for an additional five years, the 
• see SPORTS, page 16 
University has ensured that the contract will continue to gen­erate revenue for academic needs through the year 2000, according to Dennis Moore, di­rector of University Public Relations and Information. 
Although the financial details of the extension have not been 

· released, "the lion's share of the money" will continue to be used towards undergraduate scholarship, explained Moore. "Well over half of the total amount of the contract goes to financial aid," he said. 
"A multi-million dollar en­dowment for undergraduate fi­nancial aid is being generated by our relationship with NBC," said Father William Beauchamp, executive vice
Bittersweet 
president of the University.
Ray Zellars and Notre Dame topped Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl 
"Extending that relationship
24-21, but loses out in voting for the national title. 
means that revenues from the 

See SPORTS EXTRA 
NBC contract will continue to 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
PRAGUE, Czech Republic 
President Clinton came to this city of medieval churches and cobblestone streets Tuesday and quickly won the support of 
• 
see RUSSIA, page 6 

• 
see YUGOSLAVIA, page 6 


Czech President Vaclav Havel for his plan to tighten Eastern Europe's ties with the NATO alliance. 
Though the plan does not grant the immediate full mem­bership that the former Warsaw Pact adversaries want, Havel said his republic was "ready to implement it immedi­ately in concrete terms." 
Havel, the dissident who bucked Moscow and won, was at the airport to greet the presi­dent on his arrival from the two-day NATO summit meeting in Brussels, Belgium. The NATO leaders approved mili­tary training exercises with for­mer Warsaw Pact members but not the immediate membership Poland and some others sought as a security blanket amid instability in Russia. 
Clinton on Wednesday will try to persuade the leaders of Poland, Hungary and Slovakia that the alliance's halfway measure is the best way to avoid dangerous rifts in Europe. 
"Our attitude toward the plan is very favorable," Havel said at a joint news conference with his American guest. 
The incentive for wanting full membership quickly is to acquire with it assurances that the NATO allies would come to the assistance of any member that is attacked. The East is nervous such an attack could come from Russia. 
Havel described the rise of ultranationalists and commu­nists there as "very dramatic, extremely complex and very painful." 
And yet, he said, "we believe that step by step, even in the Russian Federation, we will see democratization and a market economy." 
Clinton offered assurances, meanwhile, that the "partner­ship for peace" could lead to full membership for East European nations. 
His mood upbeat, he sug­gested that reporters with him in the opulent palace take note of the "modest little surround­ings" where the Czech presi­dent has a huge office. 
Earlier, in Brussels, he said of the East Europeans and the partnership: "They will clearly understand that this is a very serious proposal" that will expand NATO rather than limit it." 
"Ultimately, the partnership will lead to an expansion of NATO," he said. 
Lithuania quickly expressed its intent to enter the partner­ship. 
Polish officials have called it an inadequate, though positive, first step. But in Budapest, Hungarian Foreign Minister Geza Jeszenszky hailed the initiative and said the summit "provided a satisfactory an­swer to our region's security concerns." 
J eszenszky called the plan a "straight path to full NATO membership." 
On a separate East European 
see NATO I page 6 

NBC contract extension increases undergrad aid 


Clinton's NATO plan earns support ofCzech president 
Clinton's European roundup 
*NATO's leaders agreed to invite all former Soviet 
and Warsaw Pact nations (Poland, Hungary, the 
Czech Republic and Slovakia) to sign partnership 
accords that extend military cooperation, but stop 
short of extending alliance membership. 
• President Clinton and his 15 NATO partners threatened Bosnian Serbs with air strikes if they block the opening of a major airport for relief supplies or prevent the rotation of peacekeepers in the former Yugoslav republic. 
NATO members 

CD Portugal @Denmark @Spain @Norway @France 10. Iceland (not shown) @united @Italy 
Kingdom @Greece @Belgium @Turkey ®Netherlands @ Luxembourg 

0Germany 1~. Canada (not shown) 
advance the University's aca­demic goals, one of which is doubling the amount of schol­arship aid available to Notre Dame students by the year 2000." 
The endowment is for gen­eral student aid and not for academic scholarships. 
The current contract covers the five year period beginning with 1991 and extending through the 1995 campaign. It is presumed to be worth an es­timated $36-40 million. The five year extension will include the rights to four home basket­ball games each season, and is estimated to be worth a bit more than the original. 
Although the current contract is in its third year, this is the first year that students are re­ceiving money from the en­dowment as the initial year purely established a reserve and the earnings from the sec­ond year are now being real­ized, said Moore. 
Currently, 30 undergraduates are receiving scholarships as a direct result of the existing contract. That number will 
see NBC I page 4 

President Clinton will be in Moscow from Wednesday, Jan. 12 to Saturday, Jan. 15. 
• 
Clinton and Yeltsin are expected to confer on Russia's ailing economy and Western efforts to help ease the transition from communism to a free-market system. 

• 
The leaders are also likely to discuss Russia's nervousness about the prospect of its former Eastern European satellites and allies joining the Western military alliance. 


r-------------------~ 

• ~reside~! Clinton ~ill stop briefly in Kiev for a meetingw1th Ukraine's President Leonid Kravchuk. 
•Clinton and ~resident Boris Yeltsin will meet Friday with Kravchuk to Sign an agreement in which Ukraine pledges to be~ome nuclear.free over a seven-year period. In return, R~ssia and the Umted States promise not to attack Ukraine with nuclear weapons, and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe will guarantee Ukraine's borders. ~ussi~ will pl~dge to re~pect its neighbor's territorial inlegnty. Ukra1ne also Will get about $1 billion in return for the uranium from its weapons. 
Former Warsaw 
Pact Nations L.................l ~~~Te~r 
Union []]Poland 

[2] Czech Rep. WSiovakia WHungary 
AP/Carl Fox. Dawn Desilels 


INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Air travel not a pleasant
•

experience 
It was the trip from hell. One would think that if NASA can send a space probe to Mars a simple lit­tle puddle jumper flight from Chicago to South Bend wouldn't be the jour­ney of all journeys, but one should never assume too much-especially with a snow storm on hand. 
My flight from San Diego was actually quite interesting for most of my fellow passengers were on their way to Caracas, Venezuela. More interesting than the destination was the movie "Alive." Now what kind of a flight eventually heading to South America by way of the snowiest place on earth, Chicago, shows "Alive"? Was this some sort of psychological torture the airline felt it had to inflict upon me because I like thousands of other Americans took advantage of a reduced excursion fare dur­ing a price war? 
I watched the movie, ate my runny omelet, placed my seat in the upright position, locked in my tray table and prepared for landing. 
Now with visions of twisted steel and Hannibal the Cannibal now dancing in my head, I was off and running to flight 5107 from Chicago to South Bend. After waiting in the plane for 45 minutes while snow started to fall and then evolved into a blizzard, we learned that the plane must be de-iced. 
De-icing. Now there's a new concept to a California kid. I envisioned this enormous hairy thing emerging from the hanger to give the plane some sort of rub down -the literal "warm fuzzy" if you will. So there we sat while our 45-minute delay turned into what seemed like eight hours, but finally it was our turn to take off. 
The plane sounded like the Little Engine that Could, but the thing is it just couldn't. We could hear this chuguhchuguh sound from the pro­pellers. I expected to look out the window and see the gently spinning blade fluttering in our decent towards the snow-laden peak before us. Fortunately, reality set in and it occurred to me that mountains are just not part of all the grandeur that the midwest has to offer. 
By the time we landed I had read the safety card about forty times and now consider mysel an expert on all crash procedures -although I do have my suspicions about those floatable :ushions. 
Next the baggage claim. As almost everyone who flew into the Michiana Regional Airport lost one or more pieces of luggage, I'll try not to belabor this part of the story. However, this one thought kept going through my mind: every single piece of winter clothing I own is most likely on its way to Caracas. 
My first cab ride in slush and snow was an 
adventure too. When the driver told everybody 
lean to the right I thought it was over. 
Fortunately, those 16 hours of my own per­
sonal "Planes, Trains and Automobiles" finally 
ended. although the baggage issue still remains. 
I'm sure some baffled customs agent some­
where near the equator is going through my 
bags and wondering why anyone would pack so 
much long underwear and a decorative Chia pet 
for a South American holiday. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
Production Sarah Doran News 
Susan Marx 
Jackie Moser 
Liz. Foran Meredith McCullough Accent Gerrie Hamilton 
Sports 
Carolyn Wilkens Bryan Connolly 
Graphics
Lab Tech Brendan Regan 
David Hungelng 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
L--------------------' 


Missing girl most likely dead 
RAQUETTE LAKE, N.Y. 

Searchers shoveled a snowy, desolate patch of Adirondack Mountain forest Tuesday looking for traces of a missing 12-year-old girl who her father concedes is probably dead. "We are going to have our daughter back and we realize now we might have to wait until the Resurrection," Robert Wood said. "But we're going to have her back and no one can take her from us." Wood, who has led a nationwide campaign to find Sara Anne since she disappeared Aug. 18, was flown by state police helicopter with his wife, Frances, to visit the search site. Sara vanished in Frankfort in central New York while rid­ing her bicycle home from the church where her father is pastor. Her bicycle, and some books and papers were found along the road about a half-mile from her house. The search near Raquette Lake -GO miles from Frankfort -began Monday on a tip over the weekend from the leading suspect in the case, Lewis Lent Jr., said state police spokesman James Atkins. "The statements that Mr. Lent made were unambiguous enough to lead us to believe that she would be found in that area and she would not be found alive," Atkins said. Lent, 43, of North Adams. Mass., was being held on charges he tried to abduct a 12-year-old girl from a Pittsfield, Mass., street at gunpoint Friday. That girl escaped. He also was charged with murder in the 1990 slaying of a 12-ycar-old boy, also of Pittsfield, whose nude body was found about 200 
Studies support needle exchanges 
CIIICAGO 

Two new studies add to growing evidence that drug addicts will readily accept programs to trade used syringes for clean ones, thus reducing their risk of catch­ing the AIDS virus. The studies are important because they were done in New York City and San Francisco, while most others have been done in Europe, said Dr. Don DesJarlais, the lead author of the New York study. "Some important critics of syringe exchange say, 'Yes, syringe exchange has worked in Europe, but it won't work in America because our problems are different,"' DesJarlais said Monday from New York. Both studies arn published in Wednesday's issuo of The Journal of the American Medical Association. Over the study period, thn use of dirty syringes declined from 51 percent of injec­tions to 7 porcent. · 
Deadly virus spreading eastward 
MIAMI 

Medical investigators focused Tuesday on a nn:al drug treatment center where a man came down with the first case of the deadly hantavirus cast of the Mississippi River. After the rodent-borne virus was recognized last spring in the Southwest, disease experts feared it would spread across the country as medical workers became familiar with the symptoms. About 50,000 spcdnwns have been shipped to the national Centers for Disease 
Control. About one of every 1,000 have tested positive for the virus. Kenneth Spence, 33, developed a flulike ilhwss in October while living at the treatment center in the Redland area that was ravaged by llurrieane Andrnw. Spence is the nation's 54th known hantavirus victim. At least 32 people have died in 14· Western states. 
Philadelphia tough on truancy 
PHILADELPHIA 

As soon as next month, students who skip school may find themselves in handcuffs. Under a plan presented Monday to the Philadelphia School Board, police would patrol hangouts for young people between 10 a.m. and 
2:45 p.m. Truants would be arrested, handcuffed and taken to one of at least four new truancy centers. "We're hoping to take away those opportunities for young people who think they can cut school all day and get away with 

NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 12.
Wediu'Sday, Jan. 12 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.

Accu-Weather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatllres ' 
OHIO 

ILL. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather. Inc. 
Pressure 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press
KY. 

Atlanta 41 36 ·Denver 54 19 New York 37 20 Baltimore 44 20 Friendswood 71 57 Philadelphia 40 21 Boston 34 7 Los Angeles 76 50 Phoenix 69 40 Chicago 34 26 Miami 73 68 St. Louis 40 37 Colombus 39 29 Minneapolis 8 -4 San Francisco 59 41 Dallas 56 50 New Orleans 60 49 Seattle 50 45 
C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

ViaAssociatedPressGraphicsNet 
4,Q,~4G8 (f ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
AP 

miles away in New York a month after he disappeared. State police have declined to say exactly what Lent told them to lead them to the spot under two feet of snow, or to link him with Sara's disappearance. 
i!," s~id John McLees, a city police inspector and execu­tiye ~~r~ctor of school safety. About 27,000 of the school d1stnct s 191,000 children are absent from school each day. In secondary schools, officials estimate that up to 40 percent of the absences are unexcused. The average high school student missed 41 days of school last year. 
Student gets payed to transfer 
PHILADELPHIA 

A Swarthmore College freshman was accused of harassing a student who resisted his romantic overtures. Now the school is paying him to go away. Swarthmore agreed to pay Ewart Yearwood's tuition, transportation an~ book costs wherever he decides to enroll for the spnng semester. Ye~rwo~d, 1~. ~aid he planned to regis­ter ~oday at Columb1.a Umvers1ty 111 New York City, where he hves, but Columbia spokesman Fred Knubel said today there was no record of Yearwood having yet applied. His d~partu~e came after another freshman, Alexis ClmanSmith, complained that he harassed her last semes­ter. She accused him of stalking her at the fall formal dance; phoning her at night; and making lewd comments and remarks such as ''I'm going to have her." Alfred 
Bloo~ .. presid~nt of the exclusive liberal arts college in t~e I hiladelphia suburb of Swarthmore, said Yearwood did not sexually harass Clinansmith, but did engage in a "pattern of intimidation." 
No one's taking any of their dung 
• 
MIAMI 

Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus made an offer that almost everyone was able to refuse: tons of free elephant dung. With 18 elephants who eat about 750 pounds of apples a week, the circus had a mountain of vitamin-enriched manure that it hoped to donate to farm­ers and lawn-keepers. But only one person took advan­tage of Monday's Mammoth Manure Giveaway. "Somebody told me it makes excellent fertilizer," said Dave Spencer of suburban Sunrise. ''I'm going to spread it on my lawn for my plants. It might get a little messy." The circus often gives away elephant manure to residents of the towns it visits. Usually, the offer is more popular. "I don't know what happened," said circus spokeswoman Rosa Lamela. "I think it was bad timing. Next time, I think we'll have it in the afternoon so people can come after work." 

Wednesday, January 12, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Entrepreneur Club extends assistance to area businesses 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
Until recent­ly, Richard Struck One Horse's South Bend sand­blasting com­p a n y , Sundogs, lacked defini­tive marketing and an orga-Jean Sheikh n i z e d accounting system. 


lie attracted customers pri­marily by word of mouth. His financial records fit snugly within a single shoe box. 
Until recently, Struck One Horse ran a one-man opera­tion. But with the help of Notre Dame's Entrepreneur Club, his business is gradually expand­ing. 
The South Bend businessman hired the consulting division of the Notre Dame Entrepreneur Club to create a marketing strategy and reorganize his books. 
"We're creating books for him, we're making brochures for him, and we're getting him into the yellow pages," said Brendan Heatherman, chair­man of the three-month old consulting division. 
Though such efforts, the club has already established the 
Com~ties 
???????? 
REMEMBER ... IT ALL BEGINS WITH 




the rally day!! 
Saturday, January 15 
11:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 


LaFortune Ballroom 

(?MPUS 
-lunch will be e;erved
MINISTRY 



tools for students and fledgling businesses to work together in a mutually beneficial relation-­ship. They are currently work­ing with a number of local busi­nesses in the areas of mar­keting, finance, accounting, and production. 
Student-consulting teams and clients mutually discuss improvements and develop­ments which will help the indi­vidual businesses. In addition to proposing new methods, the students implement them as well. 
Although "it is tough to get it started, " according to Heatherman, the club members "get a lot of consulting ex­perience and the companies also get someone to help them... 
Team registration forms and rules are available at the information 
In order to give the students credit for their efforts and also give the program the support of the U.S. government, the Entrepreneur Club is currently trying to establish a Small Business Institute (SBI) within the College of Business. 
SBI is a national program be­tween four-year universities and the Small Business Administration, a federal gov­ernment organization. 
"We have everything in place already," said Gene Sheikh, president of the club. "Why can't we bring (TEC and SBI) together and get some credit for what we are doing?" said Sheikh. 
The Entrepreneur Club will be presenting their TEC efforts at the National Small Business Conference in mid-February in order to fully implement the SBI. 
The decision to move ahead with the process was made after Sheikh attended a pro­gram at Purdue University Calumet on December 21. 1993. At that conference, Sheikh made the actual con­tacts and established the li­aisons for SBI membership. 
"That conference was pivotal in this decision," said Sheikh. 
Established in 1972, the SBI program involves over 530 col­leges. Nationally the SBis have helped over 130,000 small businesses. 

NO's Powers recognized 
did you sien up for 


for journalistic endeavors 

Powers began his 38 year ca­reer with The Tribune imme­diately following graduation
NOTRE DAME 

from college. He was a feature \VI"iter, an editorial writer and

1994 COLLEGE BOWL 

a re-write man before being named managing editor in 1959. Powers became execu­tive editor in 1984, a position he held until retirement in 

TOURNAMENT 

CAMPUS BRIEFS 
• The Academic Council of the University of Notre Dame has approved a program in 
desk of the Center for Continuing Education <CCE). . 
Forms are due back to the Center by 5 pm. on January 17. 1994. 
the Department of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences leading to a master
Tournament play begins January 22. 1994. 

of science degree in geological sciences. 
The department already is recruiting students for the program, according to William Gray, department chair and Massman professor of civil engineering. 


1990. 
Although his im'pressive ca­reer led him through many ex­periences in the field of journalism, Powers holds two highlights in high regard. 
"First of all, I have been able to work with the kind of people I like to be around-newspaper people are great," he said. "It's a lot better than going into a bank to work." 
His second highlight centers around two events he experi­enced in journalism that had a great impact on the South Bend area, he said. The first was the tornadoes while the other was the closing of the Studebaker plant in 1963 after 100 years of operation in South Bend. 
"These were two stories that had an incredible effect on the area," he said. "The tornadoes put us directly in the nation's news point of view." 
Also among notable histori­cal events that he took part in though his position in South Bend journalism was the 1968 Democratic Primary, he said. 
"1968 was the one time Indiana mattered at all in a primary. Kennedy·visited six times and McCarthy also came," said Powers. "For news people, it was pretty exiting." 
The South Bend Tribune 
contributed to the article. 
By SARAH DORAN 
Associate News Editor 
Glory seemed a long way off for Jack Powers when he was a young South Bend Tribune re­porter covering the devastating Palm Sunday tornadoes of 1965. 
But it became reality last 
week upon his selection for member­ship in the Indian.a Journalism Hall of Fame. 
Powers, a 1952 Notre Dame gradu­ate and cur­

rent adjunct Jack Powers associate professor of American Studies, will be inducted in the April 16 Hall of Fame ceremony at DePauw University. ''I'm pretty proud of it," he said. "It is the recognition from my colleagues that means a lot." 
• Student Government will hold its Book Fair at Stepan Center tomorrow from 4 to 9 
p.m. and again on Friday from 4 to 7 p.m. Purchasers will need to write individual checks for each book or pay cash. 
Student sellers can pick up their money and unsold books at Stepan on Jan. 15 and 16 from noon to 4 p.m. to char­ity. 


The Observer/Daviid Hungeling 

Bah humbug! 
Saint Mary's junior Megan Ryan grimly takes down decorations now that the holidays are over and the daily grind begins again. 
--~----~----.---~--­
-------~-----.I I! I ' ' I ~ 
The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, January 12, 1994 


Middle East talks progress slowly 
Israel, PLO coming to terms over self-rule 
Bowl 
continued from page I 
pitality center in addition to other game and alumni related events. 
"Our goal was to assist the lo­cal Notre Dame club in provid­ing hospitality for everyone with a Notre Dame relation­ship," Lennon said. "We look on our responsibility as provid­ing social relations while also cheering on the football team." 
Among the unique events that the Alumni Association provided was a daily screening of "Rudy," daily masses, and a pep rally reminiscent of a Friday night at the JACC. 
While students enjoyed all of the events, the most popular event with students was the daily breakfast and lunch spon­sored by the Alumni Association, according to senior Brad McConnell. 
"Between the free dinners we were getting at the hotel and the lunches we were getting from the Alumni Association, I don't think we ever bought a meal," he said. 
Although students at the bowl were just as enthusiastic as last year, there were approximately 700 less in attendance than the first meeting with Texas A&M, according to Bill Scholl, direc­tor of ticketing. 

While overall ticket sales on the Notre Dame side were up, the game was not sellout, Scholl said, citing a return to Dallas and the loss to Boston College as possible reasons for the available tickets. 
"While the enthusiasm may have been dampened a little, the response by the University was strong," Scholl said. 
As far as the actual game went, students were happy but reserved about the Irish per­formance. 
"It wasn't a stunning game on our part," McConnell said. "If we had made A&M look sick, we would have had a bet­ter chance to have won the na­tional championship." 

Cancun Mexico  rr~$439  
NegriIJamaica  rr~$449  
Montego Bay Jamaica  rr~$419  
Daytona Beach, FL  &om$149  
Panama City Beach, FL  !.cm$129  

a 
On-campus contact: Mike @634-4451 Angie @634-4659 Michael @634-1121 120 Ncwth "-'oro St., ltheco:l, N'1' 14150 1-800-648-4849 

Happy 2Qrh Birthday Suzanne 
Love, Mom, Dad, Stephanie & John, Stanley & Renae and Fry Guy & Sheyanne 
By DAN PERRY 
Associatod Pross 
TABA, Egypt 
New Palestinian demands for corridors out of the Jericho autonomous region bogged down talks Tuesday, but Israeli and PLO negotiators reportedly were coming to terms on other points of Palestinian self-rule. 
Nabil Shaath, the chief Palestinian delegate, and Israeli spokesman Ami Gluska both said negotiators were working on a written document summa­rizing points of agreement. 
But they dismissed news reports that a final accord had been reached on key sticking points: Jericho's size and the control of border crossings. 
Talks on implementing the Sept. 13 Israel-PLO accord for autonomy in the occupied Gaza Strip and Jericho in the West Bank resumed Monday in Taba, a Red Sea resort, after a two­week break. 
Shaath reported "excellent, very rapid" progress on issues related to the transfer of civil­ian government in the au­tonomous areas to Palestinians. 
"I hope we will be able to write the document on the civil issues and the transfer of authority before the end of the week." he told reporters after Tuesday's session. "I hope we will be able to consider it a 

Senior Brian Harr was ex­pecting that Notre Dame would be awarded a share of the title after Florida State squeaked by Nebraska, while unbeaten West Virginia was dominated by Florida. 
"We celebrated like we had won the title," he said. "Obviously we were pretty up­set when we realized that it didn't happen." 
milestone." 
Shaath said "some progress" was made on the Jericho and border issues, "but not enough to sign an agreement." 
"We are not yet satisfied," he said, insisting that the disagree­ments should not derail the peace accord. 
Israeli sources, meanwhile, said no progress on the key security issues had been made during the day. 
"I cannot say there is agree­ment on anything yet," Gluska said. "We have presented our positions, and on some of them there is no response yet, but on other points the Palestinians are demanding more. If there was agreement we would be celebrating, but there isn't." 
• 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres told journalists it would take several days before the talks could be evaluated and added that Israel would not be flexible on security issues connected to the border cross­ings. 
He also said "the size of Jericho was decided and I don't believe this is an open ques­tion." 
Israel radio reported earlier that the sides were near agree­ment on control of border crossings between the Gaza Strip and Egypt and between the Jericho region and Jordan. 
Israeli newspapers said thn Palestinians had agreed to an Israeli proposal on the size of Jericho. 
These differences have delayed by a month the Dec. 13 target for starting Israeli troop withdrawal. Israeli officials have warned the April 13 tar­get date of full withdrawal from the autonomous areas may also not be feasible. 
Israel television reported that the talks would recess after Wednesday's sessions to allow both delegations time to consult with political leaders. Israeli and PLO officials denied the report. 
Throughout the day, Israeli negotiators passed through the hotel lobby with numerous map cases. 
Israeli sources said tlw Palestinians were shown sketches of international border crossings to the autonomous zones, with an equal presence of Israelis and Palestinians. Israel radio said the Palestinians "were satisfied" by the offer. 
Gluska said the Palestinians did not object to the size of a 22-square-mile region around Jericho offered by Israel, although it is less than a fifth of what they initially wanted. Hut the Palestinians arc demanding extra land for 'corridors from Jericho to other areas, he said. 

rently support 10 graduate teaching fellows in the College of Arts and Letters. A continued from page I $500,000 endowment for MBA scholarships· in the College of grow to 120 students per year Business, which was estab­by 1995. lished last year, will eventually 
The Graduate school also re­receive $2 million from the ex­ceives funds generated from isting contract revenues. the current contract as the Earnings from that endowment University has committed $1 will be available for scholar­million per year to endow doc­ships beginning in the 1994-95 toral fellowships which cur-academic year. 
NBC 
Would you like to help students give feedback about their courses? 
We need people to be on 




THE GUIDE 
•
committee. Please call Student Government at 631-7668 to set up 
• 
an appointment 

Wednesday, January 12, 1994 
·ordeal ends as Somalis release kidnapped Briton 
By MICHAEL PHILLIPS 
A:i<:ociarcd Press 
MOGADISHU, Somalia 
Kidnapped British aid worker Calum Gardner was freed by his Somali captors today after a 42-hour ordeal that ended through the patient interven­tion of clan elders. 
Gardner, 35, was turned over to the elders, who in turn deliv­ered him to his U.N. World Food Program colleagues at 
3:45 a.m. (7:45 p.m. EST Tuesday), according to aid agency radio communications monitored in the capital. 
The Somali gunmen had asked for $100,000 in ransom, but WFP officials said they had refused to pay. 
Gardner was "a little bit grubby, but in good shape," said a spokesman for the WFP in Mogadishu, who asked to remain anonymous because of security concerns. 
The elders, who are highly respected in Somali culture. were asked by aid officials to help ne!!otiate the release of Gardner, who was kidnapped by three men Monday while walking to his office in Mogadishu. 
The WFP flew a particularly influential elder in from Luuq, 155 miles west of Mogadishu, to take part in the negotiations. 
Gardner's colleagues and friends waited through two days and almost two nights for good news and prepared his favorite dessert, banana cake, as a welcome-back treat. Repeatedly, the mediators hint­ed that Gardner's release was near, only to call back on WFP­provided radios to say the talks had hit a snag. 
The WFP spokesman in Mogadishu told The AP in New York by telephone that "the negotiations were thrashed out behind closed doors and we are not privy" to details of what the elders and the abductors dis­cussed. 
But Gemmo Lodesani, di­rector of the WFP's operations in Somalia, said the abductors did not make political demands, just ransom. 

The Observer/David Hungeling · 

Ready ... Set... Go! 
Fisher Hall junior Jimmy Byrne finds a comfortable stance as he begins the registration paper work. Students filled the JACC Tuesday to pick up their schedules and kick off the new semester. 
Rebels threaten Mexico City 
Whatever your style ....we have il sill 
• Gla~ses in 1-3 hours...EVERYDAY! 
• 
Best prices...EVERYDAY! 

• 
Best selection...over 1500 frame styles (including designer eyewear) 

• 
Our own glass and plastic labcm1tory to assure quality. 


QC&IJ. I 
'fl.tiCO 



One. 
SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 4121 s. Michigan 5327 Grape Road ( 1 /2 Mi. S. a University Pari< MaiO
(t.l '· 31 South) 
291-9200 277-8121 
Grow With Us. 
From Minnesota to Kansas, from Aorida to Tennessee, from the United Kingdom to Japan and South America ... you will fmd Cargill. We employ more than 66,000 employees at more than 800 
locations in almost 60 countries. Where there's food there's Cargill. Our diverse businesses supply fanners and trade, store, process and transpon agricultural commodities. In addition, we operate a wide range of industrial 
businesses and financial services. A key to our growth over the past 128 years is exceptional employees. We have a strong culture of keeping our people challenged with opponunities for career growth--including the chance to move to new positions in other divisions of the company. We reward good perfonnance by promoting from within whenever possible. As a privately held company, we are able to make substantial reinvestments in our businesses to give our people the resources to achieve success. We invite you to consider growing with us. Ifyou're looking for a career that offers plenty of challenges. relocation, opponunities for advancement. and a diversity of business options, Cargill 
may have a career for you. Recruitment dates are as follows: 
January 31, 1994-Accounting ln.ternship February 1, 1994-Accountmg 
Contact your placement office for funher infonnation; An Equal Opponunity Employer 
By SUSANA HAYWARD 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

A presidential troubleshooter called talks Tuesday on ending an uprising in southern Mexico. Rebels said they would ne­gotiate if the military stopped bombing, withdrew its troops and recognized their move­ment. 
They said that otherwise they would carry the war to Mexico City, where bombings appar­ently linked to the uprising have put the government on alert and residents on edge. 
In the poor, remote, southern state of Chiapas, troops moved on Tuesday toward Guadalupe Tepeyac, where up to 500 rebels are entrenched. The town of 400 people lies just north of the Guatemalan bor­der. 
Journalists who traveled from Nuevo Momom to Las Margaritas, both in Chiapas, said the army was advancing in that border region. Refugees bucked the tide of incoming troops, trying to escape a possi­ble confrontation. 
The uprising by the Zapatista National Liberation Army began New Year's Day in Chiapas, 390 miles southeast of the capital. Rebels occupied towns for days, saying they were fighting for better living conditions and an end to exploitation and oppression of Mexico's native Indians. 
Officials said 107 people died in fighting between rebels and government troops. 
"It's necessary to rebuild the political process in the region," Manuel Camacho Solis, who stepped down as foreign minis­ter to become a special com­missioner to Chiapas, said Tuesday. "We'll have to find a dignified political exit for all." 
Camacho, who gained a repu­tation as a savvy negotiator while mayor of Mexico City. said he accepted the job because he was guaranteed autonomy and access to President Carlos Salinas de Gortaril who appointed him. 
"We need to take into ac­count the point of view of all sectors involved," Camacho said. "We can't close doors. Nobody wants more dead or terrorism." 
His first move was a meeting Tuesday with southern Mexico's bishops, including Bishop Samuel Ruiz of San Cristobal de las Casas in Chiapas, an outspoken defend­er for indigenous rights. 
Ne-w threat of airstrike, san1e old lack of faith in NATO 
ByMARKPORUBCANSKY 
Associated Press 
VlTEZ, Bosnia-Herzegovina 

For some, it's a slim hope for an end to a nasty war; to others it's just more self-serving rhetoric. But few people in Bosnia believe NATO's new threats to bomb Serb positions arc serious. 
The latest warning, issued Tuesday at a NATO summit, poses the same questions and runs the same risks as warn­ings last May and August that evaporated in alliance bicker­ing. 
Regardless of whether Western jets could take out Serb positions strangling cities and blocking aid, most people in Bosnia doubt they will even try. 
Bosnian Serbs have been masters of Bosnia since war broke out in April 1992. On the ground, they possess superior firepower. Diplomatically, they have a clear aim and resolve to accomplish it. 
Bosnian Serb forces, driven by Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic's territorial ambi­tions, control about 70 percent of the republic. For a year, they have harassed aid shipments and shelled towns held by Bosnia's Muslim-led govern­ment to pressure it into a peace deal. 
The Muslims have refused, 
seeking more land than the 33 percent offered. 
Milosevic knows that those with the will to stop him -the Muslims and some Croats ­don't have the guns. Those with guns -the United Nations or NATO-do not have the stom­ach for a fight. 
But Bosnian Vice President Ejup Ganic still hopes for action. 
"There is a hope that NATO will do something, especially after we heard the promises by President Clinton and we also hope that the British will go along now with the Americans, that they will not try to slow down this action," Ganic said in Sarajevo. 
Yeltsin pleads for cooperation 
By DEBORAH SEWARD 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

On the eve of President Clinton's visit, Boris Yeltsin opened Russia's unruly new parliament Tuesday by urging lawmakers to cooperate with him and give his economic reforms "a second wind." 
Three months after he sent tanks to crush the old, hard­line parliament, the Russian president warned the new law­makers they must agree to "a complete and categorical exclu­sion of violence from the politi­cal life of the country." 
Clinton arrives for a summit Wednesday to a Russia wracked by political struggle and bitterly divided over Yeltsin's free-market reforms and pro-Western tilt. The American president is expected to strongly endorse Yeltsin and shun his political foes, including extreme nationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky. 
Some Russian politicians who had gathered for the opening of the parliament urged Clinton not to focus entirely on Yeltsin, although Clinton will meet some lawmakers, including Communists. 
"It's not enough to meet just with the leader ... Clinton should feel the political climate in Russia and its problems," said Nikolai Ryabov, a Yeltsin ally and head of the Election Commission. 
Yeltsin stood stiffly and spoke with little emotion throughout his 17-minute address to .the upper chamber, the Federation Council. 
His sober appeal for dialogue contrasted sharply to his fight­ing mood when he called in the army Oct. 4 to resolve his con­flict with his hard-line enemies, whose supporters had rioted in the streets. 
"Despite the diversity of par­ties in parliament, there is a fundamental basis for construc­tive work together," Yeltsin said Tuesday. 
NATO 
continued from page 1 
issue, Clinton telephoned President Leonid Kravchuk of Ukraine to say "I appreciate the courage you have shown" in agreeing to strip the country of its nuclear weapons. 
At the Brussels news confer­ence, Clinton acknowledged the plan negotiated with the United States and Russia to denu­clearize Ukraine -announced with fanfare a day earlier ­could face a tough fight in the former Soviet republic's parlia­ment. But he predicted its approval. 

"llow many people have to die in Sarajevo in order to see some specific action by the international community?" he asked. 
Zdravka and Buba, two nurs­es at Sarajevo's Kosevo Hospital who did not want to give their last names, ques­tioned NATO's resolve to take action against the gun emplace­ments overlooking Sarajevo. 
"Those devils from the hills must be destroyed," said Zdravka. "I am sure that the world and NATO are strong :)Jlough to do it. The problem is whether they want to." 
"1 don't believe they are going to do it," added Buba. "They cheated us so many 
He urged parliament to pass laws easing the transition to a market economy. 
"During the electoral cam­paign, a lot of fresh and origi­nal ideas were heard, which could provide a second wind to the economic reforms," he said. 
Since the stunning success of extreme nationalists and Communists in December's par­liamentary elections, doubts have emerged about Yeltsin's commitment to his painful "shock therapy" reforms. 
Yeltsin has ordered a Cabinet reshuffling to trim the bureau­
1 Medium 1 Topping Pizza 
$599 

Get up to 4 more pizzas for half the regular menu price expires 1 /3 1 /94 
cracy, and some reformers 
could lose their jobs. But 
Yeltsin has pledged that Yegor 
Gaidar, architect of his free­
market transition, will remain. 
Addressing the lower house. 
or Duma, Prime Minister Viktor 
Chernomyrdin said Tuesday 
that the government "must 
avoid unjustified lurches and 
shock-type decisions." 
Chernomyrdin indicated 
Yeltsin had learned a lesson 
from December's voting. 
"Society's patience is largely 
exhausted'' with painful ceo­
nomic upheaval, the prime min­
ister said. 
273-9944 
18157 SR 23 
V<tlid ott C.ll"ry-Ottt or l>t'li\'l't"Y Valid on Carry-Out or Delivery 
1 Large Cheese Pizza
2 Medium 

for $799 
2 Topping Pizzas 
OR Medium Cheese Pizza
$1Q99 

for $699 
Any 2nd Cheese Pizza 1/2 price 
expires 113 1/94 1/31/94 
Train Your Brain 
LSAT, MCAT, 

GMAT& GRE. 
to the score you want. tl-on-1 tutoring. 
For more -information 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the test quest1Cin

call (219) 272·4135 
times." 
In its Brussels declaration, NATO cited the siege of Sarajevo, the need to open the airport at government-held Tuzla in northern Bosnia and to free access to the eastern en­clave of Srebrenica. 
Sarajevo airport has been closed nearly continually for a week because of Serb shelling. Aid convoys to all sides in Bosnia have been blocked by fighting or bureaucracy. 
Plans to open Tuzla airport for aid shipments are nearly a year old. But it is within range of Serb guns, and the Serbs ­who seek to cut Tuzla off from the rest of Bosnia -refuse to allow U.N. flights. 



Happy 21st Birthday 
0arah Anne Lon8 
L\11 Our Love, Dad, Mom (9 Michael 
ne 1ng Order of Breadsticks with a Medium/Large Pizza Purchase 
not ualid wll/J use of any ot/Jer coupon 


....... -.·.... 
Wed ncsday, January 12, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Day two oftrial: Bobbitt denies wife abuse 
By ANNE GEARAN 
Associated Press 
MANASSAS, Va. 

John Bobbitt returned to the witness stand Tuesday and denied ever striking his wife before she cut off his penis, saying the worst he ever did was "push her, hold her down, restrain her from hit­ting me." 
On the second day of his wife's malicious wounding trial, Bobbitt disputed a court record that a defense lawyer said showed Bobbitt pleaded guilty to assaulting his wife, Lorena. 
"I never pleaded guilty to nothing," Bobbitt said. 
Mrs. Bobbitt, 24, is charged with malicious wounding for cutting off her husband's penis after he came home from a night of drinking June 23. 
If convicted, the Ecuadoran­born manicurist could get up to 20 years in prison and be deported. 
Bobbitt, 26, was acquitted late last year of assaulting his wife. 
The defense opened its case Tuesday by calling Bobbitt to the stand as an "adverse" wit­ness. On Monday, he testified for the prosecution, which rested its case Tuesday morn­ing. 
Both times, and in his own trial in November, he denied ever forcing his wife to have sex. 
Mrs. Bobbitt contends that prolonged sexual, physical and verbal abuse by Bobbitt 
DIRECT FROMM 
twin $139 
full $154 

FUTONS 
All pric~ include convertibleframe and mat. 
LAFREE ENTERPRISES 259-6201 
during their four-year mar­riage forced her to cut off his penis in an "irresistible impulse." Bobbitt is seeking a divorce. 
Defense attorney Blair Howard showed Bobbitt records from a court case that the lawyer said showed he pleaded guilty in March 1991 to assaulting his wife. 
Bobbitt disputed the records. Commonwealth's Attorney Paul Ebert said the court did not issue a final find­ing of guilt in the case. 
"I could never hit my wife," Bobbitt said. "I never hit her at all-just push her, hold her down, restrain her from hit­ting me." 
Instead, Bobbitt said, it was his wife who sometimes assaulted him. 
In one instance, he said, she got upset when they weren't allowed in a restaurant because he was wearing sneakers and began hitting him as they drove home. 
"My brother was sitting in the back seat, and I remember looking in the rearview mirror and he was just nodding his head," Bobbitt said. 
Detective Peter Weintz, one of the last prosecution wit­nesses, said Mrs. Bobbitt told him that her husband forced himself on her early June 23 and, when she complained to him afterward, said he didn't care about her feelings. 
" 'If he wanted to make love, he should have asked me,' " the detective quoted her as saying. 

Mental illness has warning signs, too. For a free booklet 
about mental illness. eall : I·R00-969-r-iMHA. 
Learn to see the warning signs. 
\Ia tiona] Mental He-.tlth :\__<;sodation ~ 
Even Den1ocrats call for counsel 
Support grows for Whitewater investigation 
ByJOHN KING 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

At least five Democratic sena­tors say a special counsel should investi­gate President Clinton's investment in a controver­sial Arkansas development, dashing White House hopes of framing Republican demands for such a review as politically motivated. 
Separately, Republicans com­plained anew Tuesday that the Justice Department was drag­ging its feet in investigating the Whitewater Development Corp. and an Arkansas savings and loan run by the Clintons' part­ner in Whitewater. 
Eight GOP lawmakers, in­cluding the Senate and House Republican leaders, said in a letter to Attorney General Janet Reno that the statute of limita­tions for any civil wrongdoing that could have occurred in Whitewater and Madison Guaranty Savings & Loan would expire as early as this March. 


The eight Republicans said they had no evidence of wrong­doing. But they nonetheless urged Reno to seek waivers from the statute of limitations for the president, first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, her former law firm, Clinton in­vestment partner James McDougal and several others involved with the bank. 
"These agreements will allow time for a complete and inde­pendent investigation," the Republicans said in the letter. "Furthermore, it will reassure the American public that any­one implicated in any wrongdo­ing will answer these allega­tions on their merits." 
Reno's office had no im­mediate reaction to the letter, signed by GOP Sens. Bob Dole of Kansas, Larry Pressler of South Dakota and Alfonso D'Amato of New York, as well as Reps. Bob Michel of Illinois, James Leach of Iowa, Jan Meyers of Kansas, Hamilton Fish Jr. of New York and Bill Clinger of Pennsylvania. 
The White House has agreed to turn over Clinton's Whitewater records to Justice Department investigators, but only under a subpoena that prohibits their release to the public. 
But the White House has steadfastly opposed demands, Jed by Leach, that Reno name a special counsel to investigate allegations that Clinton, when Arkansas governor, improperly benefited from his business partnership with McDougal. 
Investigators are trying to determine whether depositors' funds were diverted from Madison to help retire Clinton's 1984 gubernatorial campaign debt, and whether thrift money was improperly deposited in the Whitewater account. 
Jury selected for Davidian trial 
By KELLEY SHANNON 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO 

A jury was seated Tuesday for the murder trial of 11 Branch Davidians accused of killing four federal agents, and the attorney for two cult mem­bers said he plans to argue they acted in self-defense. 
The 11 survivors of doomsday prophet David Koresh's cult are accused of killing four ATF agents during a gun battle Feb. 28 at the cult's compound near Waco. Sixteen agents were wounded. 
The defendants are accused of murder and conspiracy to murder the agents. They could face up to life in prison if con­victed. Some defendants also arc charged with illegal weapons possession. 
Court records indicate prose­cutors have more than 22,000 pounds of guns and ammuni-
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
1994-95 EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chiefis entirely responsible for the operation of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and possess solid management, puolic relations and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to David Kinney by 5 p.m. Wednesday, january 19, 1993. For additional information about the position or the application process, contact Kinney at 631-4542 or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune Student Center. 
tion as evidence. 
Attorneys are under orders from U.S. District Judge Walter Smith to keep quiet, and have said little about how they plan to present their case. But the question of whether the Branch Davidians acted in self-defense during the ferocious shootout has come up repeatedly during pre-trial hearings. 
If the issue is raised as ev­idence at the trial, attorney Rocket Rosen said it would be up to Smith to instruct the jury on whether it could be consid­ered. "We feel the evidence will be raised," said Rosen, who represents Livingston Fagan and Kevin Whitecliff. 
The shootout erupted as agents of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms attempted to serve a warrant on the compound. It triggered a 51-day standoff that ended when the compound went up in flames as federal authorities knocked holes in its buildings and pumped in tear gas. 
At least 80 people, including Koresh, died during the siege. Six Branch Davidians were believed to have been killed during the initial shootout. 
Jury selection began Monday under heavy security and secrecy. Smith, who was not wearing his black judge's robe, questioned potential jurors Tuesday about firearms posses­sion, religious beliefs and work and family backgrounds. The judge said Monday he shed the robe so he wouldn't intimidate the jury candidates. 
Also Tuesday, The Dallas Morning News challenged Smith's decision to keep most of the media and public from the courtroom during juror questioning. Smith also kept the identities of jury candidates secret. 
Only a five-person media pool and a few other people con­nected with the case were allowed into Smith's courtroom during jury selection. The room's spectator section was almost vacant. 
"The public and the press have a constitutional right of access to the voir dire Uury selection) examination of potential jurors in a criminal trial," the newspaper's motion said. Smith didn't indicate when he might rule on the motion. 


The Mishawaka Bmting Company 
orthern Indiana's Only Microbrewery" 3703 North Main Street ust South of Edison on Main Street) 
********** Cornish Pasty I Pub Pie I Fish 'N Chips Scotch Eggs I Shepherd's Pie Our Famous "Pubburrito" 
& 
Traditional American Fare ********** 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK FOR LUNCH & DINNER Phone: 256 ..9993 

VIEWPOINT 

Readers voice concerns, questions, about national champions 
The fault lies with media bias 
Dear Editor: 
I am not whining because Notre Dame did not win the national championship, nor am I pleading for a playoff system in college football. What I am is a confused sports fan, question­ing why Notre Dame was never realistically considered as a contender for at least part of the national crown. 
I cannot reach any sound, logical conclusion and cannot help but think that the media distorts the public's view of col­lege football in a manner which obscures the true contention for the national title; instead of reporting the action and the scores, loads of media interpre­tation and analysis mixed with personal bias clouds the nation­al championship picture. 
Certainly, in deciding the na­tional championship, precedent must count for something; the logic used to make a decision in the past must be used consis­tently and systematically in all similar future decisions. 
In 1989, Notre Dame, which lost to Miami in Miami, defeat­ed #1 Colorado in the Orange Bowl. Sportswriters all around the country explained their logic, that head-to-head compe­tition was the ultimate tie­breaker. This is a fact and of this there can be no dispute. 
This year, Notre Dame (11-1­

0) found itself on the other side of the ball, having a record equal to Florida State's (12-1­0), but this time the Irish came on top in face-to-face battle. On the gridiron, the Irish outplayed the Seminoles. This is a fact and of this there can be no dis­pute. Yet the precedent that was established in 1989 was completely forgotten in 1993. 
Are we then to believe that college football is not governed according to consistent stan­dards, that the yardstick used to measure the caliber of teams year to year and to determine national championships is com­pletely arbitrary and subject to the yearly discretion of the fick­le, bandwagon media? 
The media are the cause of the confusion on the national title scene. The power that these individuals exert over the sports world is awesome and perhaps even a bit frightening. For example, on Nov. 13, 1993, the day of the long awaited Notre Dame vs. Florida State game, Lee Corso, Beano Cook, and nearly every other sports reporter coined the contest, "the Game of the Century," the one that would determine the national championship. The media hype that week was thicker than pea soup. This was the game and Notre Dame won. 
But one week later, when BC split the uprights as time ex­pired, the Game of the Century was forgotten -not just dis­counted, but totally vanished. It was never talked about on sports shows or mentioned in the newspaper. It didn't even appear as among the Top 100 Sports Moments of 1993 in the Cincinnati Enquirer (though NO's loss to BC was listed). The media did a trick that even Harry Houdini himself couldn't do -it made Florida State's loss vanish and turned the Seminoles into a national 
Notre Dame needs its own poll and bowl game 
Dear Editor: 
OK, all right...l'm not one to complain about the polls, bowl systems, etc., but I'd like to dis­cuss an idea which I'm sure The Observer sports staff and many Notre Dame students would agree. As I was sitting on my family room floor after the Florida State-Nebraska game, I realized what the problem was with Notre Dame Football. 
Yes, we have our own televi­sion station, so logically the next step is to have our own bowl game! Every year, Notre Dame would play in the "Hoosier Bowl" against the highest-bidding team who wants to play Notre Dame. Of course, it would have to be played at a "neutral" site, much like the Orange and Cotton Bowls. The most logical place would be the Hoosier Dome in Indianapolis, if they would con­cede to holding a Notre Dame football game every Jan. 1. 
This would guarantee Notre Dame playing a highly ranked opponent every year, instead of playing an "inferior" team like Texas A&M. You see, as many people have pointed out, the Bowl Coalition stinks. Notre Dame shouldn't have to be sub­jected to the biases of other coaches or sportswriters, whom we all know hate Notre Dame. Hmmm ... now there's another idea! 
If Notre Dame can have their own television station and bowl game, we should also have our own poll! The voters would be Notre Dame alumni, specifically the heads of the Notre Dame Alumni Clubs! These highly dis­tinguished individuals can sure­ly vote objectively concerning the National Championship. Of course, Notre Dame would have won in 1989 and 1993 if this poll had already been in place, 
championship team. meida is that the AP is unwill­
Further evidence of bias was ing to let the season's final poll the media's reluctance to admit vary far from their preseason that Notre Dame had any shot poll, for it would undermine at a title. Gannett News Service their credibility. Maybe this is ran a five-part special article the media's way of "getting series on national champi­back" at Notre Dame for its onship contenders on each of lone ability to procure a five­the five days preceding Jan. 1. year multi-million dollar televi­The series discussed the cham­sion contract. pionship opportunities for Possibly, the media is punish­Nebraska, Florida State, West ing Notre Dame for its rare suc­Virginia and even Auburn, but cess as an independent team when focus turned to Notre that is not a member of any Dame, the article did not even conference. Even more serious discuss the possibility of a na­is the possibility of the ex­tional title, but rather, served istence of anti-Catholic senti­as a month-and-a-half late obit­ment which manifests itself in uary for the Boston game. the ugly form of discriminatory 
Perhaps one motive of the practice. After all, when asked but we won't stoop so low as to award National Titles posthu­mously. This voting system would be fair and impartial, and Notre Dame wouldn't be ranked Number One if we had two or more losses. 
The objective of the poll would be to pacify all Notre Dame fans who claim there is a bias against Notre Dame -and our fans couldn't complain if we're not ranked No I in the Notre Dame Poll! These two propositions will help rectify the situation which this year's National Title hunt has caused. Never again will Notre Dame have to worry about the Bowl Coalition and the biases of the polls. 
STEVE DIRNBERGER Freshman Keenan Hall 
on CNN on Jan. 1 which team should be crowned national champion, it was Bobby Bowden who said it was not his decision it was up to the "Southern Baptists" to decide and that they weren't going to vote for Notre Dame. 
Although college football in 1993 was surrounded by a cloud of confusion and uncer­tainty, one thing is certain. There is only one team in the country that can beat the na­tional champion Seminoles. This is a fact and of this there can be no dispute. 
KEVIN WEBER 
Freshman 
Fisher Hall 

DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Y(}() 8I5T, J.A. ! 

M Y{){) CAN SE£, 7H& 5TRJP5 ON 
()f£(J<. OUT 

6/<A1Jf3 INRA770N a/&l<bA 5MA9-I, THIS !<£CENT 
U/H5R&AS 7H(.)S60N JR<*3 a;A7H AN[l Cl!K!VN'S AFFA/1<.'3 
''The responsibility of tol­erance lies in those who have the wider vision." 
-George Eliot, novelist 

~-------~ ~----~~~~--~-~------~------~~---~--~~--------~---~---~-----~~----..., 

Redemption 
• Pete Bereich put the demons of his would-be interception against B.C. to rest with a key pick in the Cotton Bowl. 
Story page 4 

Hope turns to heartbreak 
Irish win but lose out to FSU in polls 
By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sports Writer 
DALLAS 

At halftime, Lou Holtz asked for any 22 players who really wanted to win the game to put their name on a blackboard. 
The Notre Dame head coach got what he asked for as his Irish overcame a determined Texas A & M team and a seven-point halftime deficit to win the Mobil Cotton Bowl Classic 24-21 on Kevin Pendergast's 31-yard field goal. 
The Irish team that came out for the second half looked like the same team that had given up 201 yards of total offense while only amassing 123 yards of its own, but they did not act like the same team. 
"We came out the second half and we got back to Notre Dame football, you know, three yards and a cloud of dust," summed up senior Aaron Taylor. 
After a lackluster first half, Holtz made the decision to return to Notre Dame­style football. 
"We did not play well the first half other than the first drive. We took the first drive. We executed. We didn't do anything else the rest of the half. We went back in at halftime and made a few adjustments," said Holtz. 
"The main thing we did was, 'Let's go back to Notre Dame football.' We were 
See DENIED/page 2 
The Observer/Jake Peters Mike Miller's crucial punt return (top) set up Kevin Pendergast's field goal (below) that sealed Notre Dame's second straight Cotton Bowl win with 1:38 remaining. 
12-1-0 1532 1 11-1-0 1478 4 11-1-0 1418 2 11-0-01375 5 

5. >:t1:~~ 1307 8 6. Wi 10~1~1122§ '9 
7. West Virginia '· ~J ~ • 1000tl3 

.,. ·'·'· ·~· .: p:·if, 

8. Penn State 7~kf13 
9. Texas A&M 3 7 10. Arizona -2-t.; 9.~:l6 
USA TODAY/CNN 
12-1-0 1523 3 11-1-0 1441 4 11-1-0 1494 1 11-2-01313 8 5. lQ..i-1 1271 7 6. West 1a J1(~:0114~. 2 7. Penn State lD-2~.0 1132;;!2 
8. Texas A&M ~ o-:2qn:1&'P.:* 6 . ,~---~lQ94 14
9. Arizona 10. Ohio State .,,.,,,,~-0-1-1t!€0010 

r 
-~.-----­
' ' . ' 

I I page 2 The Observer· FOOTBALL 1993 Wednesday, January 12, 1993 
New Year's dream turns to nightmare 
By JASON KELLY coaches poll voted Florida State Associare Sporrs Ediror No. 1, essentially ignoring Notre Dame's Nov. 13 win over 
DALLAS the Seminoles. 
As if some magical lep­"That game obviously didn't rechaun scripted the scenario, mean anything," Holtz said. Notre Dame found itself think­"Everybody billed it as the ing about a national champi­Game of the Century. I guess it onship late New Year's Day. was the Game of the Century if 
The Hyatt Regency, Notre the right team won." Dame's Cotton Bowl headquar­The debate will rage about ters, erupted when Nebraska's which was the right team for Byron Bennett shanked his kick the 1993 national champi­toward Cuba. onship. 
It completed an improbable Bobby Bowden pointed to his turn of events that seemed to team's one extra victory make the Irish the front-runner (Florida State finished 12-1, for the national title. while Notre Dame was 11-1). Florida had already disposed He also suggested that strength of West Virginia in the Sugar of schedule was a defining point Bowl. (Florida State was 7-1 against Notre Dame had escaped bowl teams, while Notre Dame Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl. was 6-1). Florida State, a 17 1/2 point Exactly, answered Holtz and 
favorite, had to hold its breath the Irish. It was the same situ­on the Orange Bowl's second ation Notre Dame found itself in final play, before Bobby Bow­four years ago. den could take his official win­In 1989, Notre Dame finished 
ner's shower. 12-1 to Miami's 11-1, while. Notre Dame fans danced a playing a much tougher sched­championship dance in the ule. But the voters pointed to streets of downtown Dallas. Miami's win over Notre Dame 
braska victory would have headache was heartache that Holtz apparently .doesn't take
Lou Holtz went to bed confident in crowning the Hurricanes the 
ended all Notre Dame hopes. no aspirin could remedy. complements well. He re­
that his team would be No. 1 by best in the land. 
Likewise a Florida State Irish wide receiver Lake peatedly congratulated his pal
sunrise. "You (the media) were right 
blowout. Dawson had an interesting per­Bowden and his talented team.
"I really and truly believed we in 1989," Holtz said, already 
But none of this happened. spective. But there was bitterness behind 
would win it," he said Sunday lobbying just minutes after the 
West Virginia proved it was a "Notre Dame has different his words. 
morning, after learning that the Cotton Bowl victory. "I expect 
phony and Nebraska proved it standards from any other team "Florida State was an out­
Irish were really and truly No. you to be right again in '93." 
was for real. The result, in the in the country," he said. "Per­standing team," Holtz said. "If
2. "There was no doubt in my When Holtz said that, a cou­
minds of the moonlight revel­fection is the standard at Notre they weren't, they wouldn't
mind when I went to bed." ple of big 'ifs' still hung in the 
ers, should have been an Irish Dame. This, actually, is a com­have been second best." 
He got a rude awakening. balance. Both the Sugar Bowl 
title. pliment to Notre Dame. So He was joking. But he wasn't
Both the Associated Press (writ­and Orange Bowl had just 
Along with the morning much more is expected." smiling.
ers) and the CNN/USA Today begun. A West Virginia or Ne­
~------------------------~g7a~m~e~~~~~~~~~o~n17~===========f==th=====G======~ 
completions to keep the Notre Player 0 e arne Dame defense busy while Shorter took advantage of an Irish offen­
LEE

sive line weakened by the loss of 
BECTON

center Tim Ruddy and sacked 
and drop back and I told the play­
quarterback Kevin McDougal three
QUARTERBACKS ers at halftime, 'I'm going to give 
6'0" 190 lbs.
times for 22 yards. 
McDougal again mustered enough 
you a chance to win, we're going Junior
mettle to pull out the victory 

back to Notre Dame football."' 
The Irish secondary played its Tailback 
The rejuvenated attitude and a 
best· game of the year with strong
strong rushing attack helped Notre 
performances from Jeff Burris (9
RUNNING BACKS Dame defeat a pesky Texas A & M 
tackles), Bobby Taylor (7), Greg • Notre Dame's slippery
Becton just keeps on trucking 

team that was looking to avenge 
Lane (8) and John Covington (7) to 
running back had his

last year's 28-3 thrashing at the 
neutralize the Aggie passing attack 
hands of the Irish. With quarter­record seventh straight
in the second half. 
RECEIVERS back Corey Pullig and the rest of 
On the offense, Notre Dame got 100 yard game, finishing
Clutch catches when needed, Mayes the Aggie team one year wiser, A & 
strong second half showings from
growing into superstar with 138 yards on 26 car­
M appeared ready to upset the 
Lee Becton and McDougal. Becton 
Irish, but coach R.C. Slocum's team ries to pace the Irish
finished the game with 138 yards
fell short again. on 26 carries for his seventh ground game. 
0-LINE 

straight 100-yard effort while 
Not a great performance, but solid "Notre Dame is a very good foot­
McDougal more than doubled his
without Ruddy (9 carries for 25 yds) shared the
ball team. They ended up doing the 
passing yardage from the first half duties on the 51-yard drive before
things it takes to win the game," 
finishing with seven completions 
Zellars darted into the endzone for
said Slocum whose team had only 
for 105 yards. 
the score.
D-LINE scored five points total in its last 
Notre Dame tied the game at 14-a
The Aggies responded with

Good pressure on surprisingly two Cotton Bowl appearances. 
14 with a touchdown on its open­
elusive Pullig drive of their own capped off· by a
Pullig and linebacker Antonio 
ing drive in the second half after 
one-yard touchdown dive by
Shorter wearied the Irish on both 
returning to a more familiar offen­Rodney Thomas, but the Irish 
LINEBACKERS sides of the ball. Pullig finished the 
sive attack. Becton and Ray Zellars 
came right back with Becton up
Bereich's redemption warrants a high 
the middle and in seven plays
mark 

marched 65 yards. Marc Edwards' touchdown knotted the game at SECONDARY 21-21 to close the third quarter.
A subpar performance against a 
In the fourth quarter, the Aggies

non-passing team, but Burris and 
began to self-destruct and the Irish
Taylor keep mark adequate 

took advantage of each mistake. SPECIAL TEAMS Facing a second down and 14, Miller's punt return set up Pullig dropped back to pass and 
game-winning kick; you could say 
sent a spiral right into the hands of 
special teams played a rather 

Irish linebacker Pete Bereich, but it
important role 

wasn't until the next series that Notre Dame broke the tie. COACHING Texas natives Mike Miller and 
Holtz gets high marks on the field, 
Taylor both contributed key plays 
but his lobbying wasn't quite good 
in the fourth quarter. Miller
enough 

opened the next Irish series with a FINAL SCORE 38-yard punt return whieh put the Scarier than expected, but credit Irish in Aggie territory and set up
gutsy Texas A&M; once again, when 
Pendergast's game-winning kick
it counted, the Irish got the job done 
while seconds later Taylor recov­ered a Thomas fumble with 2:06 The Observer/Jake Peters remaining in the game to seal the 

Notre Dame's Jeff Burris (9) pulls a Texas A&M running back to the turf. game for Notre Dame. 
_.,..._ 

Wednesday, January 12, 1994 The Observer • FOOTBALL 1993 page 3 
4iC! I ::;as
= 


The Observer/Jake Peters Defensive lineman Brian Hamilton reaches for Aggie running back Leeland McElroy. 
The Observer/Jake Peters Fullback Ray Zellars celebrates after scoring a fourth quarter touchdown. 
1ne uoserver/JaKe !"'e1ers Defensive lineman Jim Flanigan sacks Aggie quarterback Corey Pullig. 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
Safety Jeff Burris chases down Aggie running back Rodney Thomas. 
Interception, rede111ption for Bereich 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 

Sports Editor 
DALLAS 
Pete Bereich threw a small camera at a reporter after Notre Dame's 24­21 win over Texas A&M. "Take our picture. Take our picture," he said. 
Next the Irish linebacker grabbed teammate Aaron Taylor around the shoulders and revealed a broad smile. It seemed'like the first smile in a month for Bereich, and it may well have been. 
In Notre Dame's final regular season game the senior from Mokena, Ill. dropped a fourth quarter pass from Boston College quarterback Glenn Foley that would have sealed a perfect season and a No. 1 ranking for the Irish. 
But the ball slipped through Bereich's fingers, and so did the game as David Gordon kicked a winning field goal on the game's fmal play. 
But all is forgotten after Notre Dame's season-ending victory, which was due largely to the play of Bereich and the Irish defense. 
Aggie quarterback Corey Pullig attempted a short pass to Brian Mitchell with 8:42 remaining and the game tied. Bereich dove in front of Mitchell and made an interception which would make even the finest defensive back proud. 
"I didn't think Pete could catch," said Taylor. "That was what everyone was saying." 
Everyone was also saying that Bereich cost the Irish a national title, but without him it is questionable whether Notre Dame would have ever been in a position to claim the prize. 
''I'm glad I kept my head up," he said. ''I'm glad I had a chance to redeem myself." 
After the loss to the Eagles, Bereich expressed to Irish head coach Lou Holtz his desire to get back practicing as soon as possible, to look forward instead of back. But weeks off before bowl preparation left Bereich with time to replay his missed chance. 
But after his play against the Aggies: "I can probably sleep at night now," he said ... smiling. 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
Texan Bobby Taylor had seven tackles. 

2 3 4 F Texas A&M (10-2) 7 7 7 0 21 Notre Dame (10-0) 7 0 14 3 24 
QTR TEAM PLAY TIME 
1 ND McDougal 19 run (Pendergast kick) 8:01 A&M Hill 8 run (Venetoulias kick) 3:56 2 A&M Smith 15 pass from Pullig (Venetoulias kick) 10:42 3 ND Zellars 2 run (Pendergast kick)10:21 A&M Thomas 1 run (Venetoulias kick) 6:50 ND Edwards 2 run (Pendergast kick)3:48 4 ND Pendergast 31 FG 2:22 
A&M NO 
First Downs 20 19 by rushing 11 13 by passing 9 5 by penalty 0 1 Total yardage 341 311 Offensive plays 68 66 Avg. yards per play 5.0 4.7 Rushing yards 103 206 Rushing plays 37 51 Passing yards 238 105 Passes completed 17 7

;;;­
Passes attempted 37 15 
Passes intercepted 1 0 Fumbles/Fumbles lost 4/2 1/0 Penalties/Penalty yards 3115 5/34 3rd down conversions 6-14 5-13 
percentage 42.9 38.5 4111 down conversions 1-1 D-1 

Running back Lee Becton was named the game's Offensive MVP after rushing for 138 yards on 26 carries. 
"It's a great honor," Becton said. "I had some great downfield blocks. All I had to do was follow them." 
Becton also made two key catches of errant Kevin McDougal pitches late in the third quarter with the Irish trail­ing 14-7. 
Texas A&M linebacker Antonio Shorter was named the game Defensive MVP after collecting seven tackles and three sacks. He reached Irish quarterback Kevin McDougal at will in the first half, working mostly against All-American tackle Aaron Taylor. 
Two native Texans had successful homecomings for the Irish. Cornerback Bobby Taylor had seven tackles and a fumble recovery in the fourth quarter. 
Receiver/punt returner Mike Miller had what R.C. Slocum called "the game's biggest play" when he set up 
Becton Zellars Burris McDougal Miller Kinder 
Edwards 
McDougal 
Becton Mayes 
Dawson Zellars 
McBride 
Lane Bereich Burris Goheen Magee 
B. Taylor Flanigan Young Covington Davis Hamilton Gibson Wooden 

AH  Yds  Avg  TO Long  
26  138  5.3  0  15  
9  25  2.8  1  6  
1  4  4.0  0  4  
9  13  0.7  1  19  
2  20  10.0  0  19  
1  ·o  0.0  0  0  
3.  6  2.0  1  2  
Comp  All  Yds  TO  INT  Long  
7  15  105  0  0  36  
No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
1  3  3.0  0  3  
2  27  13.5  0  16  
2  41  20.5  0  36  
1  18  18  0  18  
16  16  0  16  
T  A  Tot  TL  Sac  PBU  
4  4  8  0  0  0  
5  1  6  0  0  0  
8  1  9  0  0  4  
4  2  6  0  0  0  
3  3  6  0  0  0  
3  2  5  0  0  0  
3  1  4  2  0  0  
6  3  9  0  1  0  
3  0  3  0  0  0  
2  1  3  0  0  0  
2  1  3  2  0  0  
1  0  1  1  0  0  
0  0  0  0  0  

the winning field goal with a 35 yard punt return. 
"I just wanted to come here and do fine for the home crowd, and I did," said Miller. 
Former defensive coordinator Rick Minter and former offensive coordina­tor Skip Holtz both played a role in Notre Dame's victory. 
Holtz spent the week preparing the Irish offense for the Aggies in his final duty before assuming the head coach­ing job a Connecticut. 
Minter did not. work with the defense before the game but was up in the booth helping call defensive sig­nals. 
"Rick asked if he could sit in, but Joe Wessel and Mike Trgovac made most of the defensive calls," said Holtz, who said a game ball was given to each of the coaches. 
"Our objective was to come down to Dallas and win. All I wanted to do was help in some small way, and I got to do that," said Minter. 
AU  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
Hill  16  38  2.4  1  20  
McElroy  4  45  11.3  0  16  
Thomas  9  33  :i.7  0  11  
Groce  1  2  2.0  0  2  
Pullig  7  -15  -2.1  0  3  
Comp  AH  Yds  TD  INT Long  
Pullig  17  31  238  1  32  
No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
Groce  4  45  11.2  0  19  
Scharp  3  53  17  0  32  
Harrison  3  52  17  0  24  
Mitchell  2  29  14.5  0  18  
Smith  2  24  12  1  15  
Thomas  21  21  0  21  
McElroy  7  7  0  7  
Hill  7  7  0  7  
T  A  Tot  TL  Sac  PBU  FA  
Adams  10  2  12  0  1  0  0  
Atkinson  9  1  10  2  0  0  0  
Hendricks  5  4  9  1  0  0  0  
Shorter  7  1  8  1  3  0  0  
Jackson  6  1  7  1  0  0  0  
England  6  0  6  0  0  0  0  
Glenn  4  1  5  0  0  0  0  
Solari  3  2  5  0  0  0  0  
White  5  0  5  0  0  1  0  
Mickens  4  0  4  1  0  0  0  
Maxfield  2  0  2  0  0  0  0  
Teichelman  0  2  2  1  0  0  0  
Reinarz  0  0  0  0  0  

JOCK STRIP 
Controversy takes away from seniors' success 
I
DALLAS t's been two weeks since the Cotton Bowl and Notre Dame football players and fans still have a bitter taste in their mouths about the awarding of the national championship to Florida State. 
Jenny Marten All the pieces seemed to Senior Sporrs Wri£er be in place after Notre L____:____--l Dame's 24-21 victory and the players and managers were sizing their fingers for rings. The Alumni Association had even printed up and passed out national championship but­tons. At least a share of the national title seemed forthcoming to the group of players and stu­dents who celebrated with a late-night street party in Dallas' West End. And then the next morning, the party came to a crashing halt when both the coaches and the press tabbed the Seminoles number-one in their respective polls. Players and other members of the Notre Dame constituency left Dallas the next morning dazed and confused by the announcement. And then came the charges of bias. The polls were challenged as examples of a latent anti-Notre Dame bias in the national press, but if bias was involved in any of the voters' decisions, it was not anti-Notre Dame. If the Associated Press writers were biased, it was only bias of the self-interested kind. Sportswriters have an egotistical desire to always be right unless of course being wrong makes for better copy. No one likes to be proven wrong. So the sportswriters probably weren't too happy to have a talented Notre Dame team come in and stake a claim for the national championship after they had already predict­ed Charlie Ward and Company would finish the season on top of the polls. But, all of these charges of bias detract from the performance of the team and especially the seniors in the Cotton Bowl and the rest o the season. The 1993 version of the Notre Dame football team was senior-dominated and senior-led. In the last four years, the seniors were a part of Irish teams that won a lot of games, but never won it all. Teams that stumbled along the way, but never stopped fighting back towards the top. Teams that could be beaten, but never broken. And the seniors had a part in it all. They joined the Irish program after the 1989 controversy and along with their team­mates spent several weeks atop the polls until a 24-21 loss to Penn State. In 1991, the cur­rent seniors started to' see more playing time and were in New Orleans in January to help prove that Notre Dame really did belong in a bowl with a 39-28 bruising of Florida. Last year with Rick Mirer, Jerome Bettis and Reggie Brooks, the Irish were slated to win it all. Now or never was the consensus opinion. Suddenly, everyone wanted to be a part of Notre Dame football just for the unevitable championship ride and a ring. Then came the Michigan tie and the loss to Stanford and the ride was over. This looked like it would be a long year, but the current seniors were not ready to write of their senior campaign and a last chance at a championship. Each individual seemed to find an inspired performance at the right time. Kevin McDougal against Michigan, Jim Flanigan against Florida State and Brian Hamilton against Purdue. And then there were those who found inspiration every Satur­day, Jeff Burris, Aaron Taylor and Bryant Young to name a few. The uniqueness of this senior class almost defies description. Not only are they talented, but through their four years at Notre Dame, they have faced challenge after challenge with the class that makes a sportswriter proud to have had the chance to write about them. 



ACCE-NT 

January 12, 1994 

There is no place like home for the holidays? 
As you grumble and growl 
through the first glorious day of 8 o'clock classes, let me just offer a reminder that only two days ago, everyone was actually excited to be back. Take, for instance, the aver­age return conversation. 

Melanie Waters 
"Eeeeek! Oh my God! How are you? I can't believe it's Accent Columnist been so long!" 
"Oh, no doubt! I'm so glad to be back! One more day at home and I would have gone nuts!" 
OK, so maybe this scenario is a tad more com­mon for the freshmen that don't know any bet­ter. I assume that in the upcoming years. the thought of trekking back to South Bend will undoubtedly lose its appeal. 
So why is it that everyon~ was so anxious to pack up and haul out? I mean. what could be better than three whole weeks to catch up on "Sale of the Century?" Heck, what could be bet­ter than sleep? So, I conducted a little poll to determine the cause of this joyous exodus. 
The first thing I learned was that the "Freshman 15" gangs up and attacks over Christmas break. Even though my parents write the checks, I don't think they realize that meals really are included. I barely had one foot through the front door before my mother was trying to stuff food down my throat. "You've lost weight! Don't they feed you? Eat! Eat!" Now I know what pigs feel like before slaughter. 
We also had to quickly readjust to life with rules, such as "You will be home at this time" and "You're not going anywhere until you tell me where you're going, with whom, when you'll be back, who's driving, their social security number and name of their insurance company!" Then there's the little housekeeping disagreements. My idea of "clean your room" is throw-ev­erything-in-the-closet-and-run; this did not go over well at home. Sigh ...it's so nice to be back to my unique style of "modern American trash heap" decor. 
Is anyone else sick of being assaulted by wanna-be football critics? Everyone I talked to had to offer their oh-so-educated opinion about our performance during the season, from my old English teacher to my ex to the guy that sold me plane tickets. I innocently called to book a flight out of South Bend in March, and he instantly perked up when he heard where I went to school. 
"Hey, do you think you got cheated?" 
"Uh, excuse me?" 
"You know, should there have been a rematch 
and all?" 
"Look, I need these tickets ..." 
"Yeah, but aren't you mad? I would be ... " 
Probably the number one complaint was 
absolute boredom. Life was exciting while all the other college buddies were around, but after the first of the year, I found myself keeping company with Bob Barker and my dog. Whoop-ha. (But even my dog ran away when he heard Bob start his "spay and neuter" speech.) 
Some of us also experienced the pleasure and 
thrill of being snowed in. I laughed when I got 
back to see everyone here oohing and aahing 
over the (gasp) six whole inches of snow on the 
ground. With a few feet falling over a few days, 
the most exciting thing to do was toast marsh­
mallows on the end of the fireplace poker. 
(Don't try this at home.) Needless to say, nega­
tive temperatures aren't real stimulating for the 
social scene. 
So now what do we have to look forward to? 
Santa's probably tanning on some Caribbean 
island, and the only thing that remotely resem­
bles a holiday for the next three months is that 
heap of sappy mush in the middle of February. 
We have our glorious South Bend weather to 
cheer us up, and a wholl new semester of stress, 
strain and sleeplessness. 
Wait ... we wanted to come back to this? 
New Snite Exhibit displays the work of "Fairfield Porter: An American Artist" 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
Accent Writer 

As the only museum in the midwest, the Snite Museum of Art will soon showcase over 60 paintings of Fairfield Porter, a significant 20th century artist. 
A permanent collection of Porter's artwork remains in the Parrish Art Museum, where the exhibition originat­ed. "Porter is an artist in whom the Snite has always been interested because of his incredible combination of realism and abstraction," said Stephen Spiro, assistant director of the Snite. 
The world around him serves as the subject of his paintings, especially his environment of Southampton, New York and the areas off the coast of Maine. 
Porter's family, friends and their homes became an important source for his paintings. His family home on Great Spruce Head Island in Long Island, New York also become a memorable setting for a few of his paintings. 
"What remains the most intriguing about Porter's work is his extraordinary design and his detached way of look­ing at the world," Spiro said. 
Porter's works reflect a fresh, new interpretation as if his painting was the very first time he looked at his sub­jects. 
At first glance, "his audience has no idea Porter had worked over ideas in his mind many times before cre­ating a painting," Spiro said. 
Incredible shifts of light, color, and space exists within his paintings that make them appear "off-balance and abstract," Spiro added. 
Porter considered light an important unifying element. Until his sudden death from a heart attack in 1975, his work reflected a vibrant and light-filled atmosphere. 
"Porter was concerned with the abstract like his contemporaries," Spiro said, as he painted concrete shapes with no associations outside of themselves. 
A native of Winnetka, IL, Porter studied art history and philosophy at Harvard University at age 17. Upon graduation, he voyaged to Italy where he studied the art of Renaissance masters. 

Early 20th century French painters Edouard Vuillard and Pierre Bonnard influenced his painting; their compo­sition techniques and organization of space are evident in much of Porter's artwork. 
"Porter was one of the most important and amazing 20th century artists," Spiro said. Porter has become a significant artist working in the tradition of American Realism. 
The exhibit will host a retrospective collection of Porter's work from his early life in 1940s until1973. The opening for the exhibition "Fairfield Porter: An American Painter" will begin Jan. 23 from 1 p.m. to 4 
p.m. and run until March 27. Throughout the exhibit lun­cheons and lectures will take place regarding aspects of Porter's work. 
Admission to the exhibit is free and open to the public Tuesday through Saturday 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Sundays from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. The Snite is closed Mondays. For more information and scheduling tours call631-5466. 
Whatever happened to The Stone Roses? 

By ROB ADAMS 
Music Critic 

Back in the winter of 1988, the "acid house" scene began down on the island of lbiza off the Eastern coast of Spain. "Acid house" was a new kind of techno music based on fast and furious computer beats and psychedelic sampling. 
When these groups and many other tourist/rockers returned to England, they brought with them that unmistakably furious acid house sound and thus began a new music craze. The acid house scene would eventually spread all over Europe, but it hit the dreary town of Manchester, England the hardest. Four bands (who would later take on the moniker of the "big four") from Manchester manipulated the music into a form that could be played with real instruments, added outside influences of their own, and made all of England bow down to their reign. They were the Happy Mondays, Inspiral Carpets, Charlatans UK, and the Stone Roses. 
Although other new and old bands were involved in the "Manchester Revolution," it was the "big four" that caused the mass hysteria which spread the scene and almost made it boom worldwide. The Happy Mondays had already been around for five years, but it was the emer­gence of the hype which helped them create Pills-N-Thrills and Bellyaches, their 1990 release which featured the mega-hit, "Step On" and finally perfected their "albino funk." 
Charlatans UK came out with the single "The Only One I Know" and the response was so great that when they released their album, Some Friendly, two months later, it became one of the quickest albums to hit platinum in UK history. Inspiral Carpets had their first studio session in February of 1989 and released their debut album, Life, in 1990; its waterfalls of massive organ swooshes and made Inspiral Carpets huge superstars in the UK. However, the group which is generally credited with creating the music which caused the scene to blow up is the Stone Roses. 
The Stone Roses had musical tricks up their sleeves that no one could have ever fathomed otherwise. Their self-titled debut album, which came out in late 1989, featured a mixture of guitar grooves and speedy funk that was dance-floor material as well as hardcore rock. 
Their breakthrough single, "Fools Gold," featured a mix which was ten minutes long. In those ten minutes, The Stone Roses put together a prac­tical aerobic funkadelic workout, establishing grooves built on an erratic drumbeat and wah-wah pedal genius; the song quickly threw the Stone Roses into the limelight. 
Besides guitar wizardry and end­less funky rhythms, their debut album was an intense establishment of paranoia and disillusionment. There are songs about sinful lust ("I Wanna Be Adored"), egomaniacism ("I Am the Resurrection"), and care­ful murder ("Shoot You Down"). Lyrics such as "Kiss me where the 
sun don't shineffhe past was~ours but the future's mine/You're a I out of time" grace the outspoken t e of the album. Truly a masterpie e for all times, The Stone Roses is a t 'bute to the evolution of the guitar and its role in rock. 
After that album, however, the Stone Roses began a lawsuit to split with Silvertone Records, their origi­nal label, which took a year to com­plete. After its conclusion in the fall of 1991, they signed on with DGC for a deal reported to be for anywhere from 3.2 million dollars to 32 million dollars. 
Silvertone retaliated, releasing a collection of B-sides, ironically titled Turns into Stone, in September of 1992. It featured more amazing ­songs of persecution in a more subtle tone than their debut. In the mean­time, the Stone Roses were reported­ly done with what was to be their new album; the release date was set vaguely as "fall of 1993," but nothing ever surfaced. Rumors are floating about now stating that there will be a new single out in February of 1994 and the album will be available in March. 
Truth be told, the Stone Roses have been working all along. They have a mobile recording studio, but, being the extreme perfectionists that they are, they have been scrapping more material than they have been saving. It is almost anybody's guess whether or not they will come through on this due date. 
"We are expecting an import sin­gle from the Stone Roses sometime in the next couple weeks," said Tony Peterson, manager for the record store Tracks. "Their tentative due date for the album is in March," he added. 
The Happy Mondays, Charlatans UK, and Inspiral Carpets have all continued to record albums at a reg­ular pace since the Manchester scene died just as the Seattle scene was beginning to explode (a trait that some attribute to the Stone Roses' failure to put out anything by 1991) to mediocre responses at best. Can the Stone Roses return to the magic they sculpted in 1989 and 1990? 
Hornets stop Suns in star-less showdown 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

Without Charles Barkley, Kevin Johnson, Larry Johnson and Alonzo Mourning in the game, Charlotte and Phoenix had a chance to find out some­thing about some other starters and their bench. 
Hornets coach Allan Bristow 
liked what he saw. 
"They move the ball better without their two stars, and we do also," Bristow said Tuesday night after Dell Curry's 23 points and Hersey Hawkins' late 3-pointer lifted Charlotte to a 95-93 win over the Suns. 
"The ball movement in this game was very good. I'll take our two guys over their two guys. It is a close call, but I wouldn't trade my guys for theirs." 
The Suns were without MVP Barkley -on the injury list with a torn knee tendon -for the second straight game, and Kevin Johnson missed his fourth straight because of a sprained ankle. Mourning has a sprained ankle and missed his sixth straight start, and Larry Johnson sat out his seventh in a row because of a back sprain. 
The Hornets used outstanding defense to hand the Suns only their third home loss in 18 games. Charlotte held Phoenix to 15 points in the final quarter. 
"We came out and didn't take anything for granted, and we put them to the test for 48 min­utes," Charlotte's Muggsy Bogues said. 
The Hornets have played well in their last six games without Mourning and Johnson, going 4-2 with two victories over New York, one over Chicago and one over Phoenix. 
A.C. Green, who made the last Phoenix basket with 4:04 left, finished with 18 points and 14 rebounds. 
Danny Ainge added 17 points for the Suns. But he missed a 16-footer in the final seconds, and Bogues darted beneath taller players to grab a floor rebound. 
"They'd been running the pick-and-roll, and we didn't know what play they were go­ing to run, but the plan was to make them take it outside," Curry said. 
Bogues, who is 5-feet-3, and 6-6 Dan Majerle were involved in a jump ball with 14.7 sec­onds remaining. Ainge saved the tip from Majerle among three Hornets, but couldn't hit the last shot."We just didn't execute in the fourth quarter," Ainge said. "We made too many turnovers and missed too many easy shots." 
"We couldn't find anything that was working good enough to win the game," Phoenix coach Paul Westphal added. 
Hawkins' 3-pointer gave the Hornets a 94-92 lead with 2:46 left, and the Suns managed just one free throw by Oliver Miller the rest of the way. 
Miller had 15 points, 12 rebounds and four blocks. 
Phoenix led 30-22 after one quarter, but the Hornets took a 57-55 halftime lead as Curry scored 12 points in the second quarter. Curry's 3-pointer at the buzzer gave Charlotte an 81-78 lead at the end of three quarters. 
Majerle tied it at 81 with a 3­pointer seconds into the fourth quarter, but Kenny Gattison's layup put Charlotte ahead 87­86 with 7:32 left. There were' four more lead changes before Charlotte won for the third time in 13 games against Phoenix. 
The Hornets held their oppo­nent under 100 points for the ninth time in their last 15 games. Charlotte has won all nine. 
Phoenix put on a late surge in the first quarter, but Curry started a 17-0 run with an 18­footer and put Charlotte ahead 33-32 with a three-point play after stealing the ball at mid­
court. 
Eddie Johnson's baseline 
jumper with 8:14 left completed 
the surge, leaving the Hornets 
with a 39-32 lead. 
Three straight baskets by 
Ainge, starting with two 3­
pointers, gave Phoenix a 48-47 
lead. But Curry hit a 3-pointer 
and a jumper late in the period 
to give Charlotte its halftime 
edge. 
Pacers 82 
Bucks 76 

MILWAUKEE 
Antonio Davis had a career­
high 26 points and Reggie 
Miller added 20 as the Indiana 
Pacers beat punchless 
Milwaukee 82-76 Tuesday 
night, handing the Bucks their 
third straight home loss. 
Davis hit one of two free 
throws with 6:03 left to snap a 
66-GG tie. Then Derrick McKey 
made a basket and Miller two 
more to give the Pacers a 73-66 
lead with 2:42 left. 
The Bucks, who have a 3-12 
home record, were led by Todd 
Day with 20 points. It was the 
Bucks' lowest point total of the 
season. Their previous low was 
81 in a loss to Portland on Dec. 
19. 
Spurs 108 
Timberwolves 98 

SAN ANTONIO 
David Robinson had 27 
points, 12 rebounds, 10 assists 
and eight blocks as San Antonio 
beat hapless Minnesota for its 
eighth victory in nine games. 
Robinson's triple-double was the 12th of his career, and sec­ond of the season against the Timberwolves. He had 43 points, 11 rebounds and 10 blocks against Minnesota on Nov. 9. Dale Ellis added 20 points for San Antonio. 
Minnesota, which lost for the ninth time in 11 games, got 26 points from rookie Isaiah Rider. The Timberwolves have 
dropoped five straight road games. Knicks 98 Clippers 77 
NEW YORK 
The New York Knicks, befit­
ting a team with NBA title aspi­
rations, were more upset with 
their weak first half than they 
were happy with their decisive 
second-half performance 
Tuesday night. 

The Knicks were even with 
the Los Angeles Clippers at 
halftime despite being outshot 
57 percent to 35 percent. Then 
New York blitzed the Clippers 
in the second half, outscoring 
them 54-33 and holding them 
to 24 percent shooting en route 
to a 98-77 victory. 
"We didn't play the first half 
with any kind of thought," 
Knicks coach Pat Riley said. "In 
the second half, the overall dis­
positon of the game changed. It 
was like night and day. We set 
very high standards for our­
selves. I'll never let this team 
be satisfied with a half like the 
first one, especially at home." 
The Knicks took control in the 
third quarter, outscoring Los 
Angeles 29-15 and holding the 
Clippers to 6-for-27 shooting 
and sending them to their sixth 
consecutive defeat. 
"We started out slow and 
lethargic," said Patrick Ewing, 
who scored 31 points. "We 
couldn't get it done. In the sec­
ond half, we stepped up and 
everybody was on the same 
page." 

John Starks scored eight of his 19 points and Ewing seven during the third-period uprising that broke open an even game. Danny Manning scored 16 points for the Clippers, who went from a 44-44 halftime tie to a 73-59 deficit in the third quarter. 
"We've been doing that all season, going from good quar­ters to bad quarters and bad quarters to good quarters," Starks said. "In the first half. 
they got a lot of easy layups. We 
weren't getting back and kept 
turning our heads on the ball. 
We weren't into it like we 
should've been." 
The Clippers took no consola­
tion from playing New York 
close in the first half. 
"It's disappointing, not frus­
trating,'' Mark Jackson said. 
"We were tied at the half in 
their building, and we should 
have been up. The way we're 
playing doesn't indicate the 
type of talent we have." 
Derek Harper, playing his 
third game for New York, said 
the Knicks (22-9) were lack­
adaisical against a lesser oppo­
nent. Los Angeles fell to 11-20 
with the loss. 
"It's easy to come out and 
play a little too loose when you 
play a team you're expected to 
beat," Harper said. "In the sec­
ond half, we took care of busi­
ness." 
It was the second straight game Ewing and Starks domi­nated the Knicks' scoring col­umn. Ewing had 36 points and Starks 30 in Sunday night's vic­tory over Portland, and against the Clippers they were the only New York players in double fig­ures until just 3:11 remained in the game. 
Charles Oakley finished with 15 rebounds and Ewing 13 for New York, leading the Knicks' 56-39 rebounding advantage. 
"We were real weak offen­sively," Clippers coach Bob Weiss said. "Everything we got was off our defenso, and it caught up with us in the third quarter. We are just not playing that well right now." 
Ewing scored 13 points on (>­for-9 shooting in the first quar­ter. But his teammates missed 15 of their first 18 attompts before consecutive baskets by reserves Herb Williams, Derek Harper and Rolando Blackman gave the Knicks a 30-20 lead early in the second period. 

The Observer accep1s classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. a1 1hr No1rr Dame office, 314 LaFonunc and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. a1 309 Haggar College Ccn1n.
Classifieds Deadline for nex1-day classificds is 3p.m. All classifieds mus1 be prepaid. The charge is 2 cems per charac1er per day. including all spaces. 
- NOTICES  CRUISE SHIPS HIRING  PROMOTE our SPRING­ 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  WELCOME BACK!  Spring Break! Panama  
WELCOME BACK! USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard ' 233-2342 /1 0-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun WANTED  -Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment avail­able. No exp necessary. For info. call 1-206-634­0468 ext. C5584  BREAK packages with our posters and flyers, or SIGNUP NOW for springbreak rooms. Daytona, Panama, Padre, Cancun, etc. $129 up. Call CMI 1-800­423-5264  SECURITY SYSTEM ALL APPLIANCES 1/2 MILE FROM CAM­PUS 232 2595 FOR SALE  CLUBS THAT RESERVED TABLES FOR FOOTBALL CON­CESSION STANDS MUST PICK UP DEPOSITS BY FRIDAY, JAN. 14 IN THE STU- City! 8 days oceanview room with kitchen $119! Walk to best bars! Includes free discount card -save $50 on cover charges! 1-800-678-6386  
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MONTANA Have the summer of your life while providing the best  CAMP THUNDERBIRD Camp Counselors Needed Resident Summer Camp  $700/wk. canneries; $4500/mo. deckhands. Alaska summer fisheries now hiring. Employment Alaska 1-206-323-2672  IMMACULATE 3 BDRM CAPECOD 4 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. BULLA RD.$64,500.272-6306  DENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE. Spring Break Bahamas  Florida's New Spring Break hotspots! Cocoa Beach & Key West! More upscale than Panama City/Daytona! Great  

of Western hospitality to for Developmentally Party Cruise! 6 Days beaches & nightlife! 8 Glacier Park visitors! Disabled Are you a Wheel $279! Trip Includes days in 27 acre Cocoa 1994 Summer applica-Children & Adults. Watcher? Cash paid for TICKETS Cruise & Room, 12 Beachfront Resort $159! tions are now being watching Wheel of Meals & 6 Free Parties! Key West $249! 1-800­accepted for the follow-June 18-Aug 26 Fortune. $10 per hour. Hurry! This will sell out! 678-6386 ing positions: Bar, NO & SMC students Need to get home in 1-800-678-6386 Restaurant, Kitchen Orlando, FL area only, call (312)509-6401, May? One way airline staffs, Desk Clerks, 1 -407-889-8088 leave msg. ticket -SB to Atlanta. hey hey what's up ... 
Salespeople, Store You pick the date. $150 Spring Break! Cancun & hey hey what's up hey ... Clerks, Office, Service 631 -4053 Jamaica! Fly out of hey hey what's up hey Station, Housekeeping SUMMER CAMP JOBS FOR RENT Chicago and spend 8 hey ... 
and Maintenance in the Northeast. For a days on the beach! We hey hey what's up hey Personnel. Write to: St. free list send a stamped NEAR CAMPUS. 1 PERSONAL have the best trips & hey whats ... Mary Lodge and Resort, ($.52) self-addressed BDRM $225. MO. & prices! Includes air & PO Box 1808, Sun envelope to Camps, ROOMS AT $190. MO. hotel & parties from mmmmm ... toast! Valley, 10 83353 for an 1785 Redcoat, Maryland AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306 HEY KRUSTY, GOOD $399! 1-800-678-6386 application. Hgts, MO 63043 TO SEE YOU AGAIN! recover soon LC =) 

Wednesday, January 12, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
NCAA changes NBA draft policy 
By CHIP BROWN participate in negotiations will to reject an additional basket­Associated Press assist them in understanding ball scholarship for Division I what his or her market-value is schools. SAN ANTONIO and in most cases derive evi­"We'll manage the games 
In a sharp departure from dence that he or she should regardless of any protests that previous policy, the NCAA voted return to school and finish their may occur," said Jim Delany, Tuesday to let players declare education," Alford said. Big Ten commissioner. early for the NBA draft and In other legislation, the NCAA Basketball coaches did, how­return to their college teams if schools voted that athletes may ever, enjoy a victory when the they change their mind within only appear on promotional NCAA voted to allow schools in 30 days after the draft. sporting cards that are given Division I and II to begin orga­
"Student-athletes should have away and not sold. nized practices Oct. 15. the opportunity to investigate The NCAA also voted to allow Practices currently start Nov. 1. professional sports opportuni­relatives of an individual who A request to increase gymnas­ties in the same way other stu­will participate in the Olympics tics scholarships from 10 to 12 dents have the right to explore to receive travel expenses from -the only proposal considered employment options," said companies or donations without by the NCAA that would expand Mississippi athletic director jeopardizing the individual's grants for women -was Warner Alford, who introduced college eligibility. deferred for consideration next the measure. And in a vote sure to upset the year. 
Previously, once an athlete tobacco-chewers in college ath­
The proposal's delay left gen­entered the NBA draft he lost letics, the NCAA schools voted 
der-equity supporters wonder­
any remaining eligibility. But to han the use of tobacco prod­ing how far the NCAA had come on an issue that has resulted in
NCAA schools overwhelmingly ucts by athletes, coaches and voted to allow players to deter­game officials during practice lawsuits nationwide against universities by women seeking
mine their professional market and competition in all sports. equality in sports. 
value without sacrificing their Several measures that failed "This was a real and immedi­
amateur status. to gain approval also made ate way to increase opportuni­
Athletes would lose their eligi­news on the final day of the ties for women, to put our real
bility if they retained an agent NCAA meeting.In the back halls vote where our values are,"
or had a tryout with a pro of the convention, conference 
said Chris Voelz, director of
team. The measure applies only c·ommissioners huddled about a women's athletics at Minnesota
to basketball. possible boycott by the Black 
and a member of the NCAA
"We believe allowing the stu­Coaches Association over the gender equity task force.
dent-athletes to be drafted and NCAA delegates' vote Monday 
As low as 
51.50 
per week Monday -Saturday! 
M
ake the M1dwest's prem,er newspaper a part of your college life and save up to 50% off the regula' campus delivery pnce. Subscnbe and enJOY the convemence of hav1ng the Ch1cago Tnbune del1vered to your res1dence hall or apartment 
Transm1tted v1a sa~ell1te to pnnt,ng s1tes throughout the M1dwest, the Ch1ogo Tnbune g1ves you complete coverage of late-break1ng news and features 
,.. Get campus delivery, spectacular college and pro sports coverage and color photos of the NCM, Bulls, Bears and more! 
,. Comprehenstve coverage of :eadtng popular mustc, movtes, arts, and trends. 
,.. Expert bus1ness and f1nanC1al report1ng for successful career p!anntngt 
,. lnstghts and amusement from award-wtnntng column1sts and com1cs, M1ke Royko, Ann Landers, Bob Verdi, Calvin and Hobbes, Doonesbury and Cathy' 
Don't m1ss out on th1s special Ch1cago Tribune Un1vers1ty discount offer 
([hita!\O [ribunt 
Mail coupon to: Chicago Tribune, 2000 York Rd., Suite 124, Oak Brook, II 60521-0001 
D I want to subscribe to the Chicago Tribune for a HALF·T£RM (16 weeks) at a SO% savings. 
Deliver:  
IJ Da1ly only (Men-Sat) Campus Delivery Students pay only  538.40 $~4.00  0 Daily &Sunday Campus Delr.-ery Students pay only  $60.80 $36.00  0 Sundayonly Campus Delivery Students pay only  $24.00 $~4.00  
Payment by:  oCheck  0 MasterCard  ']VISA  0 American Express  ;:) Discover Card  

Account No. ____________________________ Signature____________________________ CALL Name:____________________Yearinschoo,l______ 
Address/Dorm Apt.. _------­
1·800· 

City State___Zip,________ Phone ( 
.TRIBUNE 
Thts offer ts vahd only outstde the Chteago Tribune 8-county prifTldry mati:et area In areas 'Vv'here home dei~Ve~Y IS not avarlable, mat I subscnptions will be offered Thts offerexptres Apnl15, 1994 
OP34 ! ( I 1-800-87 4-2863) I 
:ask for operator 34 
I I I I 
P3223 

L----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
continued from page 16 
start to provide some muscle up front and Jon and Joe Ross will try to use their size to neu­tralize the Tigers' big men. 
But Notre Dame's defense has been solid recently, it's the offense that is causing most of the problems. 
Is it because the team can't simulate the opposition's defen­sive pressure in practice that is causing all the turnovers in the games? 
"That's not so," MacLeod said. "We throw the darn thing away in practice too." 
But MacLeod wants to focus on the positives while he and his staff look for alternatives to the turnover problem. 
"We must be doing something right, otherwise we wouldn't have been in the game (against LaSalle) with 30 turnovers," MacLeod said. "Our defense has improved dramatically and now we have to see the same improvement on offense." 
Tonight's is the first home game in 10 days for the Irish and only the fourth since the season began on November 28. 
IRISH ITEMS: MacLeod has an eye on the developments at this week's NCAA Convention in San Antonio. 
He, like most other men's basketball coaches, is hoping for the return of a scholarship to increase the available num­ber to 14. 
Dec.21 Arizona 98 Notre Dame 79 
UA: Khalid Reeves 32 points 
Dec.22 Notre Dame 94 Chaminade 78 
NO: Monty Williams 27 points 
Dec.23 Texas 89 Notre Dame 72 , 

ND: Keith Kurowski 14 points 
Jan.2 Notre Dame 60 Fordham 45 
ND: Kurowski two 3-pointers in finaiS:OO 
Jan.6 Kentucky 84 Notre Dame 59 
ND: Season-high 34 turnovers 
Jan. a LaSalle 84 Notre Dame 81 OT 
LU: Kareem Townes career-high 38 points 
.... 

''I've never u we get 13 and the women get 15," MacLeod said. "And I'm glad they get 15, but I just think we deserve at least 14." 
t-lappy 19th Psychokille..­LClt-n•ie D a vwd 
Love, 
The Dl.-\de Posse 


CHEESE PIZZA TOPPINGS $1 EACH­VALID AT THIS LOCATION ONLY EXPIRES 3-31-94 
1835 SOUTH BEND AVE PRODUCT SERVICE GUARANTEE: 
IF FOR ANY REASON YOU ARE UNSATISFIED WITH OUR PRODUCT OR SERVICE, PlEASE CONTACT THE STORE MANAGER IMMEDIATElY-
AND WE'LL FIX IT. 
r---~-------------, 
r-----------------, r-----------------,
COUPON COUPON COUPON! CRUSHER!
BREAD 
6-PACK 
DOMINOS PIZZA 
STIX 
WILL HONOR OUR 
$1.99

$1.69 COMPETITORS' SPECIALS AND COUPONS AND 
GET AN ORDER OF GET A SIX PACK OF ICE BREAD STIX FOR 1.69 COLD COCA COLA OR WE'LL DELIVER IT WITH ANY PIZZA PUR-DIET COKE FOR ONLY IN 30MINSOR Cf.L\SE. ~CLUDES 1.99 WITH ANY PIZZA 
-~ 
LESS OR GIVE 
CHOICE OF DIPP~G PURCf.L\SE. 
$3.00 OFF
SAUCE. 

VALID AT TillS LOCATION ONLY  VALID AT TillS LOCATION ONLY  VALID AT THIS LOCATION ONLY  
EXPIRES 3-31-94  EXPIRES 3-31-94  EXPIRES 3-31-94  
L-----------------~  L-----------------~  L-----------------~  

-----~----------------.-.--.-.-,-.-.-.-.~.--~---­
''I I o •, 
Wednesday, January 12, 1994 


Ferris State hands Irish sixth straight loss 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 
The season started well for the Notre Dame hockey team. The squad came back from a three-goal third period deficit to defeat Ohio State ·on December 11th to even its record at 7-7-2. 
II owever, since then Irish have dropped their past six games, including a devastating 10-6 home loss last night at the hands of CCHA foe Ferris St. 
In a game the Irish definitely needed to win, it was the FSU Bulldogs who came out flying. Although the shots on goal were even, the rested Bulldogs clearly outplayed the tired Irish skaters. It was Notre Dame's fourth game in the past ten 
. days, while Ferris was playing just their second in over three weeks. 
Still, in a game where the Irish had a chance to move into sixth place in the conference, a better effort was needed. 
"I'm not making any excuses for this hockey team anymore," said coach Ric Schafer. "I 

The Observer/Brian McDonough Jay Matushak slams a Ferris State player into the boards during Tuesday's game. 
Irish had only 11 goals through must quickly regain the strong end to face off against the Irish. five games. • backline play that carried it "We're at a crossroads," 
However, the offensive per-earlier in the season, as both noted Schafer. "The ship is formance was overshadowed by 13th ranked Bowling Green and sinking. Hopefully, we have the lackluster defensive game top-ranked Michigan (20-1-1) enough fingers to plug the the Irish turned in. The team visit the Joyce ACC this week-holes." 
·­

expected us to have our batter­ies recharged, but that didn't happen." 
Perhaps Notre Dame's biggest problem was handling the potent Bulldog power play. In a game marred by 31 penalties, Ferris basically scored at will when skating with an extra man. In eight man-down situa­tions, the Irish surrendered six goals. To make matters worse, Notre Dame could only muster two power-play tallies. 
The other glaring deficiency was defending Ferris State blueliner John Gruden. Gruden beat Irish goaltender Brent Lothrop four times, including three in the game-breaking sec­ond period. Gruden also assist­ed on three other FSU goals. 
"We didn't have anyone who could match up with Gruden tonight," explained Schafer. "He shows how much differ­ence one stud player can have." 
On the positive side, the Irish tied their season high for goals, as six different skaters lit the lamp for Notre Dame. This is a marked difference from the beginning of the year when the 
• 
$5. 50 per hour • meet new people 

• 
flexible evening hours • training 

• 
no experience necessary • real life experience 


Please join us for an informal 

OPEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, January 13th 4:00-6:00p.m. at the Annual Fund Phone Center (Southeast corner of Badin Hall) 
If you have any questions, please call: Kathy Webb (631-7938) or Kent Goffinet (631-7241) 

-, 

Dec. 29 Jan. 4 Michigan 8, Kent 5, Notre Dame 3 Notre Dame 4 
Dec. 30 Jan.8 Michigan Tech 8, Ferris St. 3, Notre Dame 6 Notre Dame 2 OT 

The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Special Rush Week Hours
"on the campus" 
Thursday 8 a.m.
Open Monday -Saturday 
Friday 9 a.m.
9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
3m Sale! 
.. 
-. . 
. 
-. ' 
.

• .. 


Scotch Removable Mounting Squares 
.79 ea. 



Scotch Wallsaver Poster Tape 
$1.39 
7 p.m. 7 p.m. 
...... 
-· 
......_ 

Late free throw lifts Razorbacks past LSU 

Associated Press Arkansas, down 12 in the first Henderson and Lindeman 10 night, simply explained, "We half and 42-33 at halftime, for the Hoosiers (9·2 overall, 2-started clogging up the passing
Arkansas' Clint McDaniel scored the first 10 points of the 0 Big Ten), who beat Iowa for lanes and got some steals." made a free throw with 39 sec­second half. the fifth straight time. Kenyon Temple went on a 15-3 run to onds left to break the game's McDaniel's first shot, a 3-Murray scored 18, James turn a 51-50 deficit with little final tie and Louisiana State's pointer, put Arkansas in front Winters and Russ Millard 14, less than eight minutes left into 
Jamie Brandon missed two 
46-44 and the Razorbacks' lead Jess Settles 12 and Chris a 65-54 lead with 2:20 remain­shots in the final seconds as the ranged from one to six points Kingsbury 10 for the Hawke yes ing.fourth-ranked Razorbacks until Clarence Ceasar's 3-point­(6-6, 0-3). "We thought that if we slipped by the Tigers 84-83 er tied it at 65 with 8:54 to Iowa, bothered by the 7 -foot pushed up the defense things
Tuesday night. 
play. Ceasar fouled out with Lindeman's height advantage in would start going our way and McDaniel. who was fouled 7:28 to play, but LSU went in the second half, is off to its that's what happened," Jones after a steal near midcourt, 
front 71-70 on Henderson's 3-worst conference start since the said. missed the second of his two 
pointer and the teams swapped 1962-63 and 1989-90 seasons Aaron McKie led Temple with 
free throws. Brandon's 12-foot­leads for the next few posses­and worst overall start since 24 points. , er hit the rim, but the Tigers (7· sions. the 197 4-7 5 squad went 5-7 in "It was very intense out there 4, 1·2 Southeastern 
Williamson scored inside, but its first 12 games. for a while," McKie said. "We Conference) got the rebound Owens' bank shot put LSU back Iowa led 45-36 at halftime, knew we were in for a tough and he missed again from in front. Thurman countered but a 3-point shot by Sherron battle." about the same distance. with a similar basket, but Wilkerson -his only points of Temple (8-2) also got 16 
Dwight Stewart added 17 Burns' two free throws gave the game -capped a 19-9 points from point guard Rick points for Arkansas and Scotty LSU a 75-74 lead with 6:03 to Indiana run to start the second Brunson, who was 6-for-7 from Thurman had 15. Ronnie 
play. Corey Beck's two free half and give the Hoosiers a 55-the field and didn't have a Henderson led LSU with 25 throws put Arkansas back in 54 edge with 11:56 to play. It turnover in running the offense. points and Lenear Burns had 
front, but then Brandon hung in was Indiana's first lead since The Owls beat their city rival 13. 
the lane for a jumper and a 77 · midway of the first half. for the 13th straight time since Corliss Williamson, who had 761ead. Neither team led by more 1982 and now lead the series 
24 points, scored inside and 
Indiana 89 than four points over the next 28-15. 
then kicked the ball out to 
Iowa 75 several minutes until Steve Penn (9-2) had an eight-gameStewart for a 3-pointer as Brian Evans, showing no ill Hart's layup gave Indiana a 72-winning streak snapped.Arkansas (11-1, 2-1) took an 
66 lead with 4:48 remaining. A "They did a real good job ofeffects of a separated shoulder,81-77 lead with 2:54 to play. 
free throw by Henderson was taking us out of our passing
scored a career-high 21 pointsHenderson's jumper bounced and Todd Lindeman gave answered by two free throws lanes in the second half," off the rim, but Sean Gipson of Indiana a second-half lift from Kingsbury, but Bailey and Quakers coach Fran Dunphy the Tigers put it back uncon­Graham drilled consecutive 3-said.
Tuesday to pace the Hoosiers to tested and Arkansas fouled pointers to give the Hoosiers a Jerome Allen was 8-for-14
an 89-75 win over Iowa.
underneath. Burns made two 
79-68 lead with 2:29 left. from the field as he led Penn
Evans, who was injuredfree throws to tie it at 81. against Western Kentucky and The Hawkeyes failed to rally with 26 points. Barry Pierce With the shot clock winding 
as they missed their last 11 scored 15 and Matt Maloney
missed the Hoosiers' Big Tendown, Stewart threw up a 3-opener against Penn State last shots from the field. added 13. Maloney. son of pointer that missed. Brandon 
Temple 76 Temple assistant coach Jim
Saturday, wore a brace on his
made two free throws to make Maloney, was just 5-for-21
right shoulder and upper arm Penn 65 from the field. 
but still surpassed his previous Eddie Jones made No. 13
Stewart's baseline jumper tied "He's a good shooter and he'll
best of 20 points last season Temple's victory over Penn
it and then McDaniel swiped make his share," Dunphy said
against Purdue. sound a lot simpler than it was.the ball from Andre Owens, Damon Bailey and Pat Jones, who scored 22 points in of Maloney. 'Til take those kind who committed the deciding of shots any time." 
Graham each scored 20, Alan the Owls' 76-65 win Tuesdayfoul. 
Ward will rest before hitting the hardwood 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. 

Charlie Ward's return to the basketball court has been put on hold for at least a few days. . 
The Heisman Trophy winner from Florida State was expect­ed to be back for Tuesday night's game at Maryland, but coach Pat Kennedy said the point guard will rest a few more days before hitting the hardwood. 
Kennedy is anxious to get the 6-foot-2 Ward back, consider­ing his turnover-plagued team is off to a poor Atlantic Coast Conference start. 
·-
Ward, who quaFterbacked the Seminoles to the national title in the Orange Bowl on Jan. 1, will add leadership and back­court quickness to Florida State. In 12 ACC games last season, Ward tied for the league lead by averaging 2.8 steals per game. "He knows how to make that adjustment" from football to basketball, said Kennedy. "He develops his wind very quickly. 

Mental illness has warning signs, too. 
For a free booklet about mental illness. call : 
l-800-969-NMHA. 

Learn to see the warning signs. 
National Mental Health Association ri'l!! 


THE EIGHTH ANNUAL LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS IS SCHEDULED FOR FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 1994. THE PROCEEDS FROM THIS ALL-NIGHT SPORTS 
EXTRAVAGANZA GO TO BENEFIT THE ST. 
JOSEP 
COUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS. FOR MORE INFORMATION CON-TACT YOUR HALL REPRESENTATIVE OR CALL 
~~ AT 631-6100. 
BE AREAL CHAMPION SUPPORT SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
page 15

Wednesday, January 12, 1994 The Observer • TODAY 
1 
l 
JAY HOSLER

SPELUNKER 
t:m: 5P£LUNK~Rs GUIDf To MAKINtn1/sf~~1 __:_R:::.E:A:__:_D_:_A..::__5_LC..___.:tt+hJl!IL;J~ 
I{J DR!lw HASH M11RI<S q) pur A PLUS SIGN Ci7. 4.} 
FIRC RIO PERTE.DL'/ 

<> AT o•, 9o', 180"&2-70" (5~ IN n-tE. MIDDLE.. r::!Ja AIM

0 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Skin problem 62 By radio, e.g. 31 Chinese veggie 63 New York 
1 "Spare tire" Public Library 
35 F.--Bailey

5 Ferris wheel, 
figure e.g. 36 Shankar's 
64 Cheater's aid 9 Shares quarters strings 66 Rubbish(with) 
38 Unaccompa­

67Wargod14Furor nied 68 He wrote "My
15 Airline to Haifa 39 Notorious 30's 
Way" for Sinatra 16 Point with 1ntent 
criminal 

69 Misogynistto shoot 43 Killer whale 
·,o Communica­17 General Bradley 44 Massenet opera tions leader? 18 Yarn irregularity 71 Walter-­
45 Links position 19 Roman Hospital
46 Some flights 

goddess of 
49 Janet of Justice 

flowers 20 Notorious 30's 
50 Mark's DOWN crim1nal 
competitor 1 To's opposite 23 Smoker's intake 51 Quite ready 2 Reader's aid 
24 Subterfuge 53 Road warning 
3 Seaweed 25 German 55 Notorious 30's 
derivative physicist Georg criminal 
4 Special Forces cap 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
MOSSIATR I PICARP ATTU MAUNA OBOE STUBBORNASAMULE C 0 
N S 
0 R T s• T E E T E R 
c 
PAB¥1[111
EL LIIMN OAS ART I 
L A U R 
E. G A V E. I N f-:TIQ S L 
p E 
R yI P N E 

E L A I 
S E UN T S

~~NM!i 
D

..r"W" AS A 
I S T 0 NAKEDASAJAYBIRD OBITITUTORILAIR NUDE EMORY EMMA ASSENT.CALL 

5 Put in a  
straitjacket  
6 Not wisely  
7 Smear  
a Pipe joint  26 Love, on  40 O'Neill play,  55 ':::ity near Bristol  
9 Church drawing  bumper stickers  with "The"  5E Atmosphere  
10 Subject of the Teapot Dome  21 Muslim's holy place  41 Balderdash 42 Hillock  57 E•1glishman, in slang  
scandal  29 Watch part  47 Ransacker  58 Cork's locale  
11 Melville novel 12--Tyler Moore 13 Native African village  30 "Horrible" comic character 32 Parrot's moniker  48 Baden-Baden, e.g. 52 Razzle-dazzle 54 Filmdom honor  59 "The First-" 60 Normandy river 61 Winged Victory 65 S~oiled  
33 North, of  

21 Ankle bones lrangate Get answers to any three clues 22 Pup's sound 34 Senior leader by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­25 Actor Edward 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
James--37 Ancient letter 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"Oh, not you, mister! ... I was referring to something here from my dog, Nimka." 
DINING HALL 



lver Get Somebody Totally Wasted! 
TAKE THE KEYS CAll ACAB. lAKE ASTANO . 
fRifNDS ODN'l lH fRifNDS ORIVf DRUNK 
ELCOME BACK 
From your Friends at 
The Observer 
.. 
.. 
--

page 16 Wednesday, January 12, 1994 
----------~ 
SPORTS 
Notre Dame inks new TVdeal with NBC 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Despite finishing No. 2 in the college football polls, Notre Dame remains as proud as a peacock. 
Athletic director Dick Rosenthal and NBC Sports pres­ident Dick Ebersol announced Monday an extension of the existing television contract through the year 2000. 
Details of the package were not announced, but it will in­clude the telecast of at least four Notre Dame home basket­ball games beginning next sea­son in addition to the already highly-rated "Notre Dame Sat­urday" football broadcasts. 

"It has been an idyllic rela­tionship," Ebersol said via tele­conference. "We are enor­mously pleased with the new five-year deal." 
The package will add some much-needed exposure to a basketball program that has fallen off the national television map in recent years. 
NBC will have total control over which basketball games will be televised, most likely those that involve marquee teams like UCLA, Duke and North Carolina. 
But the basketball negotia-

Women hold early 
lead to defeat DePaul 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 
After jumping out to a 21 point first half lead, the Notre Dame women's basketball team held off a late surge by DePaul to secure a 77-63 victory Tuesday night. 
"In the second half, we were a little sloppy, but I felt that we still played well. We did exactly what we wanted to do," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw, who saw her team improve its record to 9-4 on the season. "They (DePaul) played a very good second half." 
After several back and forth buckets to open the second half, the Blue Demons went on a 10-0 run, led by freshman forward Kris Booker, to cut the lead to 61-47. Booker finished the game with 23 points to lead 
Dec. 19 Notre Dame 82, LSU 80 
Dec. 21 Notre Dame 83, Temple 51 
Dec. 30 Notre Dame 82, Georgetown 62 

... 
Jan.2 Old Dominion 87, Notre Dame 76 
Jan.4 Notre Dame 63, Dayton 55 

-
Jan. 7 Tennessee 105, Notre Dame 70 


all scorers. 
DePaul could not break the double digit barrier. though, as the Irish full court pressure forced 27 Blue Demon turnovers. Guard Kara Leary had four steals to lead Notre Dame defensively. 
Notre Dame regained control of the game by feeding the ball to junior forward Letitia Bowen, who dominated the DePaul defenders inside and scored nearly at will. 
"We were trying to get Letitia the ball in the second half, and we did a pretty good job of that," McGraw commented. 
Bowen, who recorded 18 points and ten rebounds on the night. was supported by for­ward Katryna Gaither, who fin­ished the game with thirteen points and eight rebounds. The freshman also had four blocks. 
"Katryna has really been coming around," continued McGraw. "She's a good rebounder and she's been scor­ing points. But defensively, she can improve." 
Gaither was not the only freshman to come off the bench and make an impact in last night's contest. The Irish were led offensively by another first­year player. Beth Morgan. After missing practice the last two days due to an ankle injury she received during Notre Dame's 105-70 loss to top­ranked Tennessee, Morgan picked up right where she left off, scoring 22 points to spear­head the Irish attack. 
Notre Dame got started on the right foot when guard Sherri Orlosky hit her first shot, a three-pointer. They got the best of the Blue Demons early, taking a 9-2 lead, one that they would never relinquish. 
DePaul was able to hang close until the midway mark of the first half, when the Irish rattled off eleven straight points 
Hockey 
Head coach Ric Schafer and the Irish drop their sixth straight. 
see page 13 tions remained secondary to the football agreement. 

"Basketball was not part of our discussions until we com­pleted our football negotia­tions," Rosenthal said. "Subse­quent to that the discussions began about basketball." 
With two full seasons re­maining on the existing con­tract, the timing of the an­nouncement seemed prema­ture. But both parties, particu­larly Ebersol, expressed such pleasure with the current deal that an extended agreement was merely a formality. 
"We have an unbelievably happy business deal in a world Yith a lot of tumultuous ones," :bersol said. "This {announce­aent) is a reflection of an idyl­ic relationship." Notre Dame tas taken some heat over the >ast three years for using its narketability as a weapon in .he battle for television expo­mre, but Rosenthal said he felt 1one of it. 
"Everybody seems to un­jerstand our situation, and the teams we play are getting sig­nificant compensation, so we haven't had any trouble (with resentment from opposing schools)," Rosenthal said. 
Rosenthal said the "majori­ty" of the funds from the deal 



Inside SPORTS 
Volleyball Christy Peters grabs 
Kara Leary drives around a DePaul defender during Notre Dame's defeat of the Blue Demons Tuesday night. 
to take a 41-18 advantage. The offensive explostion was sparked by a breakaway layup by guard Jeannine Augustin and a three point basket by Morgan. 
Notre Dame shot well throughout the game, hitting a percentage of .451 from the field, compared to only .351 for the Blue Demons. The Irish were red hot from the free throw line iri the first half, hit­ting six of seven shots, though they had a problem hitting shots from the charity stripe in the second half. 
With the loss, the Blue Demons dropped to 3-7 on the season. It marked only the sec­ond time that the Irish defeated DePaul in the Joyce Athletic. and Convocation Center. 
Last night's game marked the 
some post-season honors see page 14 
end of a long stretch of non­conference games for Notre Dame, as they will now begin play in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. The Irish open their conference schedule Saturday when they travel to LaSalle. 
NOTRE DAME (77): Beth Morgan t0·16 0·2 22, Letitia Bowen 8·16 2·2 18, Katryna Gaither 5·9 3·5 13, Sherri Orlosky 3·11 0.0 7, Carey Poor 2·5 2·2 6, Jeannine Augustin 2·5 0.0 5, Tootie Jones 1·3 0-0 2, Kara Leary 1·4 0·0 2, Andrea Alexander 0·0 2·6 2, Rosanne Bohman 0·2 0·0 0, Susie AtchinsonO·OO·OO. TOTALS:32·719·1777. 
DEPAUL (83): Kris Booker 8·24 6·7 23, Cathy Pezdritz 8·13 0·1 16, Carey Sehueler 5-13 H 12. Anne Clark 3·6 1·2 7, Mammie London 1·7 1·3 3, Chris Francke 1·8 0·1 2, Tarnaya Bullock 0·2 0·0 0, Becky Blacharczyk 0·1 0·0 0, Sheila Cantu O.Q 0·0 0. TOTALS: 26·74 9·15 63. 
3-point goale (included in totals above): 
DePaul 2·8 (Booker 1·4, Schueler 1·2, Bulloek 0· 
2), NO 4-11 (Morgan 2·4, Orlosky 1-5, Augustin 1· 
2). Total louie: DePaul 14, NO 18. Technical 
Foule: None. Rebounds: DePaul 54 (Pezdritz 
14), NO 44 (Bowen 10). Aoalats: DePaul 12 
(Francke 5), NO 15 (leary 5). Turnovers: DePaul 
27 (Booker 6, Francke 6), NO 18 (Jones 4). 
Halftime Score: NO 52, DePaul 31. Attendance: 
672. 
(not disclosed but believed to be in excess of the estimated $36­40 million existing agreement) go to non-athletic scholarships and fellowships at the universi­ty. 
Several other schools are rumored to be seeking out simi­lar deals and the Southeastern Conference apparently has a package in the works with CBS. 
But it is unclear if other schools or conferences, which generally have more regional interest, can match Notre Dame's nationwide audience. 
"In my opinion," Ebersol said, "there's only one Notre Dame." 
Boyer to get starting nod against Tigers By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor  
It's time to try Plan B. as in Brooks Boyer. Plan A, as in Admore White, will be put on hold only tem­porarily as the freshman con­tinues to adjust to the college game. After White's 12 turnovers in Saturday's 84-81 overtime loss to LaSalle, Irish coach John MacLeod decided his adjustment was proving a lit­tle too costly. "Brooks knows the offense and he's a senior so he's got the experience," MacLeod said. "This doesn't in any way mean we've given up on Admore. We put him in a tough spot and he played well at times. It's a difficult transi­tion from the high school game and his effort has been outstanding. We're real high on Admore White." It will be a tough assign­,m~nt. for everyone tonight iagainst Misso,\ll'i. , The Wildcats boast a 10-1 ,record and the lone loss is •almost a badge of honor, a ;:t2Q~68 defeat to then-No. 1 ·Arkansas.. : The opposition hasn't been .til~ ,toughest in Missouri's 10 ·wins, but Norin Stewarts club has impressed MacLeod. .~They're""deep, they play ·good defense and they're good at pushing the ball up the ·floor and getting baskets in transition," MacLeod said. Most of those baskets 1 ·belong to inside weapons "Melvin Booker and Jevon erudup, who average 16 and '14 points per game, 'respec­tively. Notre Dame doesn't have much of a counterpunch in that area. Carl Cozen will ·,,,  
see MISSOURI/ page 11  

NCAA Hoops Charlie Ward will rest his weary bones before hitting the hardwood 
see page 14 










