
~150 YEARS~ 
Thursday, October 20, 1994• Vol. XXVI No.40 ~NOTRE DAME·IN ri 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Cinema impacted apartheid 
By MICHAEL DAY 
News Writer 
Hollywood's great effect on cultures throughout the world has helped reveal the unbeliev­able parallels that exist between Apartheism of the past 50 years and Nazism of the 1940's, according to Peter Davis in his documentary "In Darkest Hollywood: Cinema and Apartheid." 
Davis, a leading producer and director of documentary films over the last decade, spoke at DeBartolo Hall last night following the showing of his lat­est documentary depicting the cinema's influence on apartheid in South Africa. 
Clark Gable, Spencer Tracy, Roy Rogers, and Betty Grable have long been household names in America, according to Davis, but few would realize that the black culture of South Africa treated these actors as idols in the middle of the Twentieth Century. 
This is all because of the tremendous effect that the cin­ema had on the South African life style during the 50 years of the apartheid's existence. The blacks of the country welcomed anything that would provide fantasy and a break from the rigors they faced daily in apartheid, according to Davis. 
In his two part film, Davis illustrated not only the unbe­lievable suffering that the blacks faced during the time period, but also the "amazing influence the movies had on the African culture during the apartheid rule." 
"It (the cinema} influenced fashion, behavior, and the way the Africans viewed themselves 


The Observer/Brian Hardy Peter Davis addresses Hollywood's influence on apartheid in South Africa during a viewing of his film last night in DeBartolo. 
as a people," said novelist Lewis Nkoski in Davis' film. "Because of the cinema, a whole new world opened up to the Africans. For the first time they had the opportunity to view other cultures and develop an understanding of a greater world." 
Movie viewers all over the world were able to see the hor­rors of apartheid in South Africa for the first time in Alan Paton's film "Cry, The Beloved Country." Paton's production provided an effect similar to the one that Harriet Beecher Stowe's "Uncle Tom's Cabin" had in the United States, said Davis. 
Hollywood's influence on the South African culture peaked in the 1960's despite the increase in violence and the constant segregation the blacks faced during the decade, according to the film. For the first time, Africans emerged as the promi­nent actors in the films, and the response they received was unbelievable. 


The Observer/ Brian Hardy 

Going once ... 

Notre Dame Security held an auction last night to sell confiscated items such as bikes, radios, and typewriters. 
"They (the Africans} viewed it as some kind of miracle to see black actors on the stage," said Nkoski in the documentary. "They loved the white actors they had seen in the 1940's and 'SO's, but there is no describing the emotion they felt when they first saw performers of the same color as themselves." 
The cinema truly was a way for the blacks of South Africa to forget about the cruelties they faced every day in the system of apartheid, according to Davis. They used it as an outlet and altered their own way of living by what they viewed on the big screen, he added. 
As a result of how vividly and accurately the films created during the 1960's depicted the horrors of apartheid, a world­wide sentiment for the blacks' suffering in South Africa grew dramatically during the next decade. 
Ironically, the white South African government turned to 
see APARTHEID/ page 5 
• STUDENT SENATE 


Senate shoots down watchdog committee 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
News Writer 
The mandate for the for­mation of a "watchdog" com­mission of the office of Student Affairs was voted down at the Student Senate meeting last night. 
Interim Freshmen Class Council President Thomas Matzzie presented his resolu­tion once again, which called for a mandate by the Student Senate for a "watchdog" com­mission that would be "inde­pendent of the authority of any Student Government Adminis­tration and under the direct au­thority of the Student Senate." 
The commission would keep watch over the Office of Student Affairs and its depart­ments, which is "virtually unchecked in its authority over all aspects of student life," according to Matzzie. 
Matzzie submitted his reso­lution with changes from the first resolution he presented at the Student Senate meeting two weeks ago. 
"I took input that members of the Senate presented at the last meeting," he said. 
The resolution he presented last night included information concerning the members of the "watchdog" commission. 
he commission would consist of three members of every class who shall be selected during their sophomore year, accord­ing to Matzzie. After being appointed by the Chairperson and approved by a majority of the Senate, they would serve until the April of their gradua­tion year, stated Matzzie. 
"There's no mention of rights in DuLac," Matzzie said before the resolution was voted upon. He said "that is my attempt with this resolution" -to have the rights of Notre Dame stu­dents recognized and to have the authority of the office of Student Affairs checked. 
After Matzzie presented the changes to his resolution, mem­bers of the Senate followed with a number of questions and comments. 
"Student Government is too big," according to Senator Brian Foley, 
"You're going against the wishes of the student body who voted for (Student Body Vice President and President} Matt (Orsagh} and Dave (Hungeling}," he said to Matzzie. "You're making Stu­dent Government bigger." 
"Couldn't we put this (com­mission} under the jurisdiction of the CLC (Campus Life Council} or the legal de­partment instead of creating an entirely new body?," Off Campus Co-President Matt Reh asked. 
"Why do the same people need to be there for three years?," Rich Palermo, co­chair of the Hall Presidents Council, asked. 
"If you vote against it, let it 
see SENATE/ page 5 



Former dean dies at age 79 
By NANCY DUNN 
Assistant News Editor 
Thomas Murphy, former dean of the College of Business of Administration died Sunday in Sydney, Australia after a long illness. He was 79. 
Friends and colleagues at the University remembered Murphy as someone who was a pleasure to work with and be with. 
"Tom Murphy's leadership enabled the College of Business Administration to move to a productive blend of teaching, research, and service while maintaining high ethical and professional standards," said friend, neighbor, and colleague Ken Milani. 
"Much of the excellence of the program today is due to his ef­forts years ago," said Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president emeritus. Appointed dean during his presidency, Murphy made great efforts to upgrade academically the col­lege of Business, according to Hesburgh. 
"He was a marvelous profes­sor. I have heard many former students say he was the best professor they ever had," said Fr. Hesburgh. 
After World War II, the direc­tion business school curricula should take became a major is­sue, according to Malone. Fr. Cavanaugh, University presi­dent at the time, brought in Jim Culliton from Harvard Business School as the new dean. Culli­ton was to institute reforms that would turn Notre Dame's business school into a first­class, modern institution. 
Culliton started the Program for Administrators (PFA} as a pilot program for a limited number of students within the system. Murphy served as di­rector for the PFA for two years and inherited the deanship when Culliton left. Under Murphy's leadership, Culliton's limited reforms were applied to the entire college and made a requirement for all students. 
"Murphy was instrumental in engineering the change from trade-based curricula to cur­riculum based upon administration and manage­ment," said John Malone, emer­itus faculty. Malone and Murphy worked together for twelve years. Hesburgh called them "twins working for the betterment of the college." 
As dean in 1967, Murphy played an integral role in the inauguration of the master's of business administration pro­gram, the dedication of Hayes­Healey Center two years later, and the ceremonies marking the 50th anniversary of busi­ness education at Notre Dame. 
His contributions to the Uni­versity could be measured sole­ly in terms of his having Hayes­Healey built, but Murphy's most influential change was the dra­matic improvement in faculty, according to Milani. "He estab­lished the foundation for a quality College of Business Administration," said Milani. 
Murphy earned his bache­lor's and master's degrees from Boston University and taught at Aquinas College in Grand Rapids, Mich., from 1939-42. Then he entered the Navy and served in the South Pacific dur­ing World War II as a lieu­tenant commander on the USS O'Bannon. He received two citations from President Roosevelt and subsequently was graduated from the Naval War College in Newport, R.I. 
After the war. he taught for a year at Holy Cross College in Worcester, MA., then joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1946. 
Dean Murphy was the first di­rector of the London MBA pro­gram, a post he assumed in 1977. 
Murphy specialized in busi­ness finance and investments and had expert knowledge of the stock market, both theoreti­cally and practically, said Mal­one. 
In addition to his University duties, Murphy was a member of the President's Export Ex­pansion Council, an advisory group to the U.S. Secretary of Commerce, and served on the 
see MURPHY/ page 5 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

No excuse for another 25 years of this 
Relations between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have really heated up over the past two weeks with the publica­tion of various letters to the editor regarding the distribution of Maya Angelou tickets. The ill­feelings, however, go far beyond the availabili­ty of tickets to see Maya Angelou. 
On a broad scale, the stereotypical attitudes about "SMC Chics" and "Domers" seem to be getting worse, or maybe just now publicly ver­balized. This needs to stop. The endless let­ters to the editor have now become personal slams between students of the two institu­tions. 
It seems that students on both sides of State Road 31 have written before they've thought, or done their fact checking. This suggests a much deeper problem. 
The women of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have had problems since day one. But day one was almost twenty-five years ago. It's time to put the past behind us and start relat­ing. 
It is possible for the women of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame to have friendships-believe it or not. The women of Saint Mary's are not "dumb and easy" and, likewise, the women of Notre Dame are not "uptight and fat." We are uncannily similar. We come from similar backgrounds, share many of the same values, and enjoy doing the same things. After all, we usually end up in the same places on Friday and Saturday nights, so what seems to be the problem? 
How about Notre Dame men for an answer? Some seem to enjoy perpetuating these stereotypes. It must be pretty good for their collective egos to have women from two cam­puses fighting over them. 
It is also probably better, from their point of view, to have these women angry at each other, rather than joining forces and turning their anger on the opposite sex. 
I must clarify these accusations, they do not apply to all Notre Dame men. They do not apply to those who are comfortable with themselves and with their relationships with females from both campuses. The also do not apply to those who relate to women on a per­sonal level, rather than viewing us as "meat" at a party. 
The stereotypes can be broken down by working and interacting with each other on an intellectual level, or at least one that does not involve alcohol. 
In light of the heightened tension I feel that it is my responsibility, as the Saint Mary's Editor, to explain how well the two schools can compliment one another. 
The Observer is the perfect example. The paper represents common ground where stu­dents of both schools must work together on a daily basis. It does not take long to relate on a personal level when working side by side. By becoming personally involved many of the myths are dispelled while a mutual respect and understanding are developed. And this is universal; students participating in any orga­nization that links the two schools will soon learn that the stereotypes are false and need to be ended. 
Only one question remains: How long it take for you-both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students-to step out of your own little world to see what others have to offer? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 

• TooAv's StAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Nancy Dunn Ethan Hayward Sports RyanAkey Production  Mike Hungeling Accent Bevin Kovalik Tom Roland Graphics  



The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, October 20, 1994 • LANCE 
Gorbachev proposes plan for a safer world 
NEW YORK 

The world is still playing by the same Cold War rules and they no longer work, Mikhail Gorbachev said Wednesday. 
The former Soviet president proposed new rules for disarmament that would drastically cut nuclear arsenals and would tax sales of conventional weapons -the revenues would go to the United Nations to pay for peace­


keeping. 
A proposal to improve peacekeeping would give more clout to the United Nations and regional security organi­zations. 
Gorbachev, who has little influence in Russia, did not mention the political turmoil in Moscow, where there are signs of a growing rift between President Boris Yeltsin and Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin. 
In a speech before the New York Council on Foreign Relations, Gorbachev stuck to global issues, speaking most passionately about the environment and disarma­ment. 
He presented the report of the Global Security Project, a group of security experts from the United States, Russia and India, who he said are trying to formulate "a concep­tual basis for the new international relations." 
Gorbachev, who heads the group, noted that the era of two superpowers is over and called for "multilateral cooperation for the benefit of all." 
He proposed cutting the nuclear arsenals of the five major nuclear powers -United States, Russia, Britain, France and China-to 100 warheads in 10 years, fol­lowed by the abolishing of nuclear weapons. 
The United States and Russia have more than 20,000 warheads between them, he said. 
Gorbachev called for a treaty to ban nuclear testing. Yeltsin, in an address to the U.N. General Assembly last month, also called for such a treaty and proposed a sweeping plan to limit the spread of nuclear weapons. 
Gorbachev's plan includes taxes on conventional weapon sales, which would go to the United Nations, and perhaps to regional security organizations, to pay for peacekeeping. 
He said the world has been unable to prevent conflicts in the post-Cold War era, but acts "like a fire brigade that is always late." 
Gorbachev suggested forming regional groups, such as a European Security Council, which he said would be bet­ter able than the U.N. Security Council to handle conflicts between its members. 
The former Soviet president also proposed creating, under U.N. auspices, a permanent corps of "eminent, prominent leaders who would be able to work to settle international conflicts." 
And Gorbachev said he'd be willing to serve. 

No charges for Mays' false claims 
SEBRING, Fla. 

Switched-at-birth teen-ager Kimberly Mays won't face charges for making false sexual abuse accusations against the man who raised her. "Kimberly is going to seek counseling and we're not going to file any criminal charges against her," Assistant State Attorney Steve Houchin said Wednesday. The 15-year-old "divorced" her biological parents, Ernest and Regina Twigg, last year in favor of Robert Mays in televised court proceed­ings. Then in February, Kimberly ran away from home and later went to live with the Twiggs. The girl told authorities Mays had abused her since she was 7. She later broke down and admitted making the story up, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement said last month. She blamed the fabrication on emotional stress. Kimberly had been switched at birth in a hospital in 1978. When the switch came to light years later, the Twiggs wanted her back. Kimberly refused, saying she wanted to stay with Mays, the only father she had known, and a judge ruled in her favor. 
Neo-Nazi receives II years 
VIENNA 

A leading extreme rightist accused of trying to form a successor to the Nazi party was found guilty Wednesday and sentenced to 11 years in jail. Gottfried Kuessel, 36, was charged with creating and leading a group dedicated to the overthrow of the Austrian republic, and with expressing neo-Nazi sentiments. He was found guilty of the same charges in September 1993, but a higher court threw out the conviction because of faulty jury instruc­tions and ordered the retrial. His second conviction by a Vienna jury came after five hours of deliberation, the Austria Press Agency said. Kuessel originally was arrest­ed in January 1992 after appearances on French and 
U.S. television in which he called for renewed legalization of Hitler's Nazi party. Kuessel argued his group VAPO­an acronym for the Extraparliamentary Opposition of Those Faithful to the People -is merely a loose grouping and not a party. 

Trade Deficit shrinks, imports up 
WASHINGTON 
America's trade deficit shrank by 12.9 percent in August despite the fact that Japanese imports to America surged to a record high, the government said today. The Commerce Department said that the U.S. trade deficit in goods and services fell to $9.74 billion as U.S. exports hit an all-time high, reflecting big increases in exports of commercial aircraft, industrial machinery, computer chips and cigarettes. The overall improvement was likely to calm financial markets, which were unsettled by the sharp widening in the deficit in July, when it had jumped to $11.19 billion, reflecting the second worst goods deficit in history. 
Foley pledges tax break 
WASHINGTON 
House Speaker Thomas Foley, fight­ing to win re-election, has said he will try to revive a health insurance tax break for the self-employed in next month's lame-duck session of Congress. But aides on the two key tax­writing committees said it was unlikely lawmakers will deal with the issue when they come back to Washington to vote on a global trade pact in late 


November. The 25 percent tax deduction for health pre­miums paid by the self-employed for themselves and their families expired at the end of 1993. Several health reform bills would have expanded it to 100 percent. But when health reform legislation died for this session of Congress, it left the self-employed in the lurch. Foley, D­Wash., facing a stiff challenge from Republican George Nethercutt, said in a debate Monday night in Walla Walla, Wash., "I favor, and I will work very promptly to restore, the deductibility of individual health care bene­fits for self-employed people. I am going to go back to this Congress and see that is done. Definitely done before the end of this tax year next year," the speaker said. Congress has let the self-employed tax deduction expire before and restored it retroactively. 




The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 20. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

ILL. • 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V18 Associated Prsss 
Hearher Gibson Tom Roland Tara Grieshop 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta 72 57 Dallas 80 67 New Orleans 82 71 Baltimore 70 46 Denver 63 38 New York 73 58 Boston 62 51 Los Angeles 78 57 Philadelphia 73 49 Chicago 74 62 Miami 81 73 St. Louis 78 62 Columbus 63 59 Minneapolis 56 54 Roswell 87 75 

Students Dance to promote Toddler stands guard can swap 
alcohol awareness over her slain father 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Admission to the dance,
tixs for GAs 
News Writer which will run from 9 p.m. to midnight, is free. As part of National Collegiate Virgin margaritas and
By WENDY GRZYWACZ 
Alcohol Awareness Week, sev­daiquiris will be served at the
News Writer 
eral student organizations are dance, as well as potato chips, sponsoring a dance tonight at pretzels, nachos, and fruit andStudent football season ticket 
the LaFortune Ballroom. vegetable trays. 
holders interested in exchang­
"We want to make people Providing non-alcoholic alter­
ing or donating their tickets for 
aware that alcohol causes a lot natives is important, Hagen
the Navy Parents' Game have 
of problems on campuses said.
two options this year. The 
across the country," Scott Ha­"There is a lot of peer pres­
ticket office in the Joyce ACC 
gen, coordinator of the event sure to drink," he said. "It's
will exchange one Navy stu­
from the Graduate Student considered socially· acceptable. 
dent ticket and $14 for a gen­
Union, said, "but we also want People need to know that you
eral admission ticket, and Big 
to have a lot of fun." can have a good time without
Brothers/Big Sisters are 
Sponsored by the Graduate alcohol."
accepting unused Navy tickets 
Student Union, Undergraduate Serrano said that many stu­
to be used by unmatched chil­
Student Government, the Office dents come to college assuming 
dren in their program. 
of Alcohol and Drug Education, that drinking is a way of life. 
By exchanging an unused 
Flipside, and Students Against "The real problem is driving
student coupon and $14, stu­
Drunk Driving, the dance is drunk, "she said. "I don't think 
dents will be able to convert it 
open to both graduate and un­some students have the matu­
into regular admission seating 
dergraduate students. rity when they first come to
for other relatives interested in 
"It's an opportunity for grad­school to deal with alcohol re­
attending the game on October 
uates and undergraduates to sponsibly."
29th. The seat locations will 
get to know each other," Belen Can -or, more importantly,
be the same as the original stu­
Serrano, president of SADD, will -Notre Dame's student
dent tickets. 
said. "We're trying to get ev­body support non-alcoholic en­
"We're trying to help every­
erybody to have a good time." tertainment?
one that needs to be helped" 
The dance, held on Thursday "I think there is a strong per­
by accommodating those who 
night instead of on Friday or centage of people that would
will benefit from this service, 
Saturday because fall break be­support these activities," Hagen 
said Perry Baert of the Notre 
gins this weekend, can serve as said. "It's my hope that this
Dame ticket office. Although 
a study break, according to Ha­dance is enough of a success so
he acknowledged that the 
gen. that we'll support it again next
response has been slightly 
"Thursday night is late year.
lacking, the office expects 
enough in the week that people "Sometimes, [non-alcoholic
more interest today. 
are looking to relax," he said, events] are not as successful as
This is the first time the tick­
"but there are still people they could be," he continued.
et office has offered such an 
around to make the dance fun." "If we put a little more effort
exchange and it may have 
Both Hagen and Serrano are into them, they could be really
more in years to come. 
expecting about 300 students to great."
Students interested in ex­
attend. Last year's dance at­SADD is also planning more
changing their tickets should 
tracted a similar number of activities for the year, including
bring their entire ticket books 
people. a bowling tournament, Satur­
to the JACC second-floor ticket 
"I think undergraduates will day night movies, a dating
window today between 8:30 
support it more than gradu­game contest, and the opening
and 5:00 p.m. A maximum of 
ates," Hagen said, "because it's of a coffeehouse where campus
four tickets may be exchanged 
more convenient for them." bands will perform. 
by each student. Students who wish to help neighborhood children by do­
Have something to say?
nating their ticket to Big Broth­ers/Big Sisters should contact the Center for Social 

Use Observer classifieds. 
Concerns. 
t 

FACULTY NOTRE DAME -SAINT MARY'S SINGLES GROUP 
Social gatherings of single faculty have been sponsored since 1992. Regular gatherings take place on the third Thursday of each month. Come and meet new and continuing colleagues, single, divorced or widowed. 
REGULAR MONTHLY GATHERING 
Thursday, October 20 5:30 -6:30 p.m. Lounge of the Morris Inn 
Also: On November 17 at the INN at St. Mary's On December at a member's home-Christmas Party 
For further information call John Gerber, C.S.C 1-8601 or JoAnne bunnage 1-4617 
Co-sponsored by the Si11gles Group and Campus Ministn; 

By STRAT DOUTHAT 
Associated Press 
WATERTOWN, Conn. 
For more than a day, little Andrea Scott sat in a pool of blood on her kitchen floor, keeping a vigil over the body of her slain father, a convicted drug dealer who had been shot to death, execution-style. 
Day care workers said they found the 2-year-old child caked with blood from head to toe when they went to the apartment Tuesday afternoon. 
"She had thrown a blanket over her father's body to keep him warm," said Elizabeth Byrd, a nurse at the Learning Circle Day Care Center. 
Friends said Scott, who was released from prison in 1992 after serving 14 months for selling drugs, was a quiet, re-. served man who doted on his daughter. The girl was born addicted to cocaine. 
"He was a devoted father who cared deeply for his daughter. I've held that baby in my arms as she suffered the seizures and convulsions of her withdrawal from cocaine. Her father was all she had. ... Now everything's been ripped away from her," said Pegene Watts­Anderson, director of the girl's day care center. 
Byrd and co-worker Mary Ann Kellar went to the tod­dler's home after she failed to show up at the day care center Monday and Tuesday. Nobody had answered their telephone calls to Scott's apartment in this suburb of Waterbury. 





Internet newest arena of sexual harassment 
By ELIZABETH WEISE 
Associated_ Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
For women, logging on to the Internet can be the computer equivalent of walking past con­struction workers on their lunch break. 
"R u horny?" come the mes­sages. "So what brings you here at this hour?" "Wanna chat privately?" 
Gender wasn't supposed to matter in cyberspace. But try telling that to anyone who has ever logged on under a name like Cindi or Veronica. 
Rather than deal with the posturing and harassment, many women are logging on to women-only discussion groups scattered around cyberspace. 
"It's not all 'Here's how cool I am' and 'Here's how clever I can be.' It's an attempt to con­nect, not to show off," said Fawn Fitter, a Bostonian who logs on to the women-only por­tion ofthe WELL, a 10,000-per­son computer network based in Sausalito, Calif. 
There are at least 15 women­only areas -or conferences ­on bulletin boards around the 
The little girl opened the door when she heard Kellar's famil­iar voice. 
The day care workers found Andrew Scott lying face down on the kitchen floor. Andrea was slightly dehydrated and had a bad diaper rash, Watts­Anderson said. 
The day care workers said it appeared that the child had slept beside her father's body. Police said they weren't sure how the child passed the hours she was in the apartment with her slain father. 
Detective Sgt. Ron Blanchard said Scott, 45, was shot in the back of the head with a small caliber pistol. Authorities found a large quantity_ of crack co­caine, some packaged for street sales, and a huge wad of cash in the cramped, two-bedroom apartment Scott shared with his daughter. 
State officials placed Andrea, who was in good physical condition, in a temporary foster home. Watts-Anderson said she had been told that Scott's cousin, a day care worker, would eventually get custody. 
The child's mother is a tran­sient drug addict who lives in Waterbury, police said. 
Scott, who was on supervised home release from prison until March, went to court and got custody of his daughter when she was 3 months old. 
Authorities said they had no suspects and no murder weapon. They were uncertain when Scott was killed, but it could have been as early as Sunday night. 
SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book Notre Dame Football Today, reg. $499', now just $3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on ND football." A must for every student and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 
(219)634.. 1740 
country, as well as a smaller number of men-only spaces. Users must speak to an opera­tor to prove their sex before they can log on. 
Women-only spaces don't mean male bashing. Last year the women of Meta Network in Washington started a topic called Celebrating Men. 
For several weeks they filled it with their musings: "I love the way they look at you in­tensely.'' "I love the way they smell after they exercise." "I like the way they play with their dogs.'' 
Then as a holiday gift they copied the whole list over to a community conference, so that all the men could read it. 
"It really deepened our rela­tionship with each other," said Lisa Kimball, one of the net­work's founders. 
Over at New York City-based ECHO's women's conference, a group of younger women re­cently started an on-line ver­sion of the ever-popular "Who'd you rather do?" game. "They name names," said ECHO's Stacy Horn. "It's hys­terical." 
Some users on men-only con­
ferences have other things on 
their mind. 
"I see us struggling with be­ing male in this society, and dealing with pain and emotion­·al hurt," said Dana Lewis, a writer in Pennsylvania who 
uses Meta Network. 
Gender-specific places on 
bulletin boards have their dan­
gers, however, as a recent case 
in California illustrated. 


..--------------------------------...-----~~---------------~---~--­
Thursday, October 20, 1994 · The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Apartheid Kids killing kids becoming a trend 
continued from page 1 
Hollywood to help reduce the negative publicity and to refur­bish the idea of apartheid throughout the world, accord­ing to Davis. By using censor­ship, the government employed film makers to produce movies that would show the discrimination of blacks in a more favorable light, he said. 
"They (the film makers em­ployed by the government) at­tempted to create a benevolent aspect of apartheid," said black film maker John Kani. "However, Hollywood's re­sponse to the blacks' plight in the 1970's was. able to increase the sentiment for the Africans to an even greater level." · 
As Davis illustrated in the documentary, the cinema esca­lated its efforts in the 1980's and, as a result, created a unit­ed stance against apartheid. The role that the movies had in the breakup of the apartheid system in the 1990's cannot be overemphasized according to Davis. 
"Hollywood dominates the world culture socially, politi­cally, and economically," said Davis following the fllm. 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
be that it's because you dis­agree, not because you think it will fail," said Matzzie. He reminded members of the Senate that their roles as stu­dent leaders is "to try every method you can to represent student interests." 
There were seven members opposed, two in favor, and seven abstained. Afte'r the mandate for the resolu1ion was rejected, Matzzie commented, "My efforts will continue with the aim of representing student interests. I hope to form a group with or without the 
By SHARON COHEN Associated eress 

CHICAGO 
In the long list of crimes and misdemeanors on Chicago po­lice's blotter, the murder of 5­year-old Eric Morse seems the cruelest. 
It was, police say, a carefully planned crime: Last week Eric was lured by two boys, 10 and 11, to their "clubhouse," a va­cant apartment high in a hous­ing project. He was dangled from a window, then dropped 14 floors to his death. 
His frantic 8-year-old brother could not save him. Neighbors heard a long, fading scream. 
Eric died, police said, for his honesty: He refused to steal candy for the boys and reported them to his mother. 
A wake was held for Eric on Wednesday, less than two months after another boy's death shook the city: Robert "Yummy" Sandifer, an 11­year-old murder suspect hiding from the police, was allegedly executed by two brothers in his gang, ages 14 and 16. The scrawny boy nicknamed for his love of cookies had a rap sheet 
Murphy 
continued from page 1 
graduate and undergraduate accreditation committees of the American Association of Colle­giate Schools of Business. 

that rivaled most adult felons: 28 arrests in 18 months. 
These two incidents provide a pinhole glimpse into a frighten­ing and disturbing world of kids killing kids. They also raise new questions about what is happening to an entire genera­tion of inner-city children, who is responsible and how the viciousness can be stopped. 
"We're seeing communities that are increasingly isolated from the social norms we be­lieve in," said Alfred Blumstein, an urban affairs expert at Carnegie Mellon University. "They're populated by kids who are prepared to risk their own lives or someone else's to gain or avoid losing respect." 
Some say these two murders reflect several nationwide ur­ban trends: the growing power of gangs, guns and drugs among adolescents; the disin­tegration of families; the lack of legal remedies to deal with chil­dren committing the worst of adult crimes. 
"By time kids come to atten; tion of the criminal justice sys­tem, it's probably too late," Blumstein said. "(It's) typically designed to send kids back to parents ... but we see large numbers of parents who don't have the competence, who don't have the skills and them­selves are dysfunctional." 
The youngsters in both Chicago cases have troubled histories. Robert Sandifer was an abuse victim himself, start­ing at age 22 months. The 10­year-old charged in Eric's mur­der had five criminal pros­ecutions (four were dropped) and last week was supposed to be confined to his home under court order. The fathers of both boys are in prison. 
This week, Eric's death stirred an impassioned speech from President Clinton to a gathering of police officers about children taking their sig­nals from parents and the need for role models. 
"What we must be worried about is wave upon wave of these little children who don't have somebody both good and strong to look up to, who are so vulnerable that their hearts can be turned to stone by the time they're 10 or 11 years old," Clinton said. 
Even those who try to steer kids straight fmd it tough going. "These kids will listen to a gang member selling drugs 
rather than something posi­tive," said Tracy Harding, a resident of the notorious Cabrini-Green public housing project and program coordina­tor for a youth foundation. 
"The negative catches on much quicker.... You do some­thing bad to get respect. Then people are scared of you." 
Harding said he was alarmed to fmd some kids he works with admired Robert Sandifer. "Just being in the gang and having so much pull, that was the ulti­mate fantasy to some of them," he said. 
Some experts say the Sandifer case points up two key reasons for violence among the young: easy access to guns and the role of the gang as substitute family. 
A study released last week by the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta found that homicides among youths aged 15 to 19 jumped 154 percent from 1985 to 1991, far exceeding in­creases in any other age group. 
Chicago police statistics also show an increase in kids com­mitting murder: In 1983, 198 offenders were younger than 21; a decade later, 372 youths fell into that category. 



Perry's visit yields modest results 
By JOHN DIAMOND in the 1949 revolution. 
Associated Press Concerned about political repercussions in the United CHONGQING, China States, Perry was careful to 
Four days of talks with Chi­temper his overtures to China nese military officials left De­with stern words about the im­fense Secretary William Perry portance of human rights and pleasantly surprised Wednes­the danger of missile technol­day about what didn't come up: ogy sales to Pakistan. 
U.S. fighter sales to Taiwan. But Perry's admonishments 
Two U.S. sources, speaking did not provoke a response-in­on condition of anonymity, said kind from the Chinfl.Se. The ab­the Chinese, contrary to expec­sence of any protest over the F­tations, refrained from raising 16 sales apparently signaled any protests about sales of F-16 the degree to which China fighter planes to Taiwan. The hopes to improve relations with island government has been a the United States, according to bitter rival since splitting with U.S. officials. the mainland communist nation Perry ended his visit to China 
by harking back half a century to World War II when the two countries were allies, and look­ing forward to a time when that friendship could be renewed. He spoke in a ceremony at the Stilwell Institute, a museum and research center dedicated to the late Gen. Joseph "Vinegar Joe" Stilwell, who headed U.S. forces in China, Burma and India during the war. 
It was from this command post high above the Jialing River that Stilwell directed the famed Burma airlift, in which 
U.S. air forces ferried vital sup­plies into mainland China for the fight against Japan. 
"The relationship that Joseph Stilwell forged between China and American forces has a new life today," Perry said. "I am looking forward to more progress in U.S.-China relati.ons in the coming year. Like our military c·ooperation during World War II, this military rela-

~~~-..~!!·,~\
~ 
................ 
FREE INFORMATION AND RESERVATlONS 
1•800•5UNCHASE 
·NOBODY DOES SKI BREAKS BETTER! 
tionship benefits both countries. 
I believe General Stilwell would 
have wanted it this way." 
In diplomatic terms, the Perry 
trip yielded modest results: an 
agreement in principle to work 
together on defense conversion 
projects and the support of 
Communist Party Chairman 
Jiang Zemin for the U.S.-North 
Korean agreement on nuclear 
weapons control. 
But the trip carried important ·symbolic weight. Perry became 
the first defense secretary to 
visit China since 1989 when the 
People's Liberation Army 
crushed a pro-democracy 
demonstration in Tiananmen 
Square, Beijing. 
The sale of fighters to Taiwan 
had been expected to be a 
tough topic for the meeting be­
cause the Bush administration 
decision in 1992 to sell the war­
planes followed years in which 
the Pentagon refused to 
approve such sales in deference 
to China. 
Bush approved the sale of 
150 F-16 fighters to Taiwan, 
breaking a 10-year moratorium 
that had been maintained pri­
marily to assuage China. At the 
time the deal was seen mainly 
in the domestic political context 
Its a way to boost Bush's politi­
cal standing in Texas, where 
the fighters are made. 
"Secretary Perry was careful 
not to unduly raise expecta­
tions," said Sen. John Warner, 
R-Va., a senior member of the 
Senate Armed Services Com­
mittee, who accompanied 
Perry. "I've observed the nu­
ances here, the facial expres­
sions. The Chinese are gen­
uinely pleased that he came 
and spoke with them." 
The brief visit to this south­
western provincial capital pro­
vided Perry with a condensed 
view of China's past, present 
and future. 
On the 20-mile ride into the city from the airport, Perry passed terraced, rain-drenched rice paddies and cabbage fields tended by farmers straining behind huge water buffalo. While the farms are still run under the communal system of public ownership, Chongqing ­which used to be known to Westerners as Chung King ­has been declared a free enter­prise zone .open to capitalism and outside investment. 



----~--· 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 20, 1994 

BoiDb attack in Iraq, no fatalities reported 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 

A bomb exploded today at the Ministry of Religious Affairs building in Baghdad, wounding several people. 
Government sources, speak­ing on condition of anonymity, said the blast occurred during office hours at the compound in the northern Bab al-Moaddam district of the Iraqi capital. 
No fatalities -only injuries -were reported. 
News photographers said there was no sign of damage and windows appeared intact at the walled, block-size com­plex, which comprises two large buildings and several smaller structures. 
Guards would not allow pho­tographers through the gates. 
There was no indication who might have been behind the attack, the second in Baghdad in two months. 
A booby-trapped car blew up near the offices of the state-run al-Jomhourieh newspaper on Aug. 22, killing a child and wounding 13. 

Official media blamed that at­tack on "agents of Iraq's ene­mies," usually a reference to the largely rebellious Shiite Muslim community or the mi­nority Kurds who rose against President Saddam Hussein af­ter the 1991 Gulf War. 
Several other explosions have rocked Iraq the past two years as international sanctions im­posed after Iraq's August 1990 invasion of Kuwait throttled the country's economy, causing widespread hunger and pover­ty. 


Book reflects on Pope's life 
By VICTOR SIMPSON 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 
In the first book ever pub­lished by a pope, Pope John Paul II recalls his Jewish 
friendships as a boy in Poland before the Holocaust and sharply condemns abortion. Church lead­ers predicted 

the book, Pope John r e l e a s e d Paul II today, will be a bestseller. 
"Crossing the Threshold of Hope" contains no major pro­nouncements, but its writing and publication are highly un­usual events. The book, written while John Paul was pope, tar­gets a general audience. 
Inside are the pope's personal reflections on the papacy, reli­gion and the role of the Roman Catholic Church in the world. 
"It ought to be a bestseller," declared Archbishop William Keeler of Baltimore, president of the U.S. National Conference of Catholic Bishops, during to­day's Vatican launching of the English-language edition. 
The book, published in 21 languages, hits bookstores Thursday in 35 countries. 
Knopf, which reportedly paid $6 million for the English-lan­guage rights, said more than 1 million copies will go on sale in the United States. 
Papal spokesman Joaquin Navarro said all royalties will go to a charity designated by John Paul. He estimated the pope will get 45 percent of the sale of foreign rights by his Italian publisher, Mondadori. 
Although the 229-page book contains weighty religious anal­ysis, it also includes the pope's views on the fall of communism in Europe, his concern over the rise of Islamic fundamentalism and personal recollections, in­cluding a rare mention of his father, a non-commissioned army officer. 
His experiences as a young man in Poland during the rise of the Nazis clearly shape many of his views. 
"I remember, above all, the Wadowice elementary school, where at least a fourth of the pupils in my class were Jew­ish," he writes in a chapter on Judaism. "I should mention my friendship at school with one of them, Jerzy Kluger -a friend­ship that has lasted from my school days to the present." 

With World War II, he wrote, came concentration camps and systematic extermination. "First and foremost, the sons and daughters of the Jewish nation were condemned for no other reason than that they were Jewish." 
Of the Vatican's formal recog­nition of Israel in December, more than four decades after the founding of the Jewish state, John Paul wrote: ''It is important to reaffirm that I my­self never had any doubts in this regard." 
Reflecting on the fall of com­munism and his own support for the independent Solidarity labor movement in Poland, John Paul said it was "simplis­tic" to say Divine Providence caused the collapse. 
"It fell as a consequence of its own mistakes and abuses. It proved to be a medicine more dangerous than the disease it­self," he wrote. 
John Paul's opposition to abortion is well known, and he uses some of his sharpest and most direct language to under­line his rejection of a pro­choice policy. 
Officials attempting to impose Muslim culture and values 
By MAUD BEELMAN 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 

In 1988, long before Bosnia plunged into war, some young TV comedians spoofed a divided Sarajevo. Later, they joked about U.N. peacekeepers break­ing into a home to settle a fam­ily fight. 
Now, the popular and pre­scient Surrealists' Hit Parade group -the Balkan equivalent of Monty Python or "Saturday Night Live" -has a new body of work that pokes fun at Islam. But no one may ever see it. 
Officials of Bosnia's Muslim­led government deemed some sketches offensive and stashed the videotapes of the show in the basement of state-run tele­vision, a communist-era cen­sorship tactic. 
"This government is trying to create a new culture, and we are not in their plans for the new culture," said Zenit Dzozic, 33, leader of the seven-member comedy troupe that is nego­tiating to get a re-edited version of the series shown. 
That new culture seems in­tended to bring Sarajevo's mostly non:observant Muslims closer to Islam. 
Bars are still crowded with Muslims and others swigging alcohol. and short skirts pre­dominate in much of the city. But veiled women frequent the old Muslim quarter, and more people are going to mosque. 
After 30 months of war, signs are emerging that Sarajevo, long the symbol of Bosnia's multicultural tolerance among its Muslims, Roman Catholic Croats and Orthodox Serbs, is drifting toward religious and political rigidity: 
-The leader of Bosnia's Mus­lim community wants to ban what he calls "European garbage: alcohol, drugs and prostitution." His objection to pork sales caused it to disap­pear from Sarajevo markets. 
-An Islamic fundamentalist publication close to Enes Karic, the culture and education min­ister, advocates banning mixed marriages, which accounted for more than one-third of prewar marriages in Sarajevo. 
-Karic, an Islamic scholar, ordered a ban on "aggressor music" -songs from Serbs and Serbia. The edict is vague and independent radio stations have ignored it so far, but until recently such a decree would have been unthinkable from a government whose message to the world has been that it wants a multiethnic state with cultural diversity. 
-Almost all state-owned companies are run by ranking members of the ruling party, the Muslim-dominated Party of Democratic Action. 
-Government-run television is trying to shut down its rival, independent Hayat television. 
-Mujahedeen, Islamic fight­ers from the Middle East, have appeared in Sarajevo, where once they would have been run out of town. 
There has not been any or­ganized pressure on Catholics and Orthodox, and Sarajevo's 
SOUTH BEND RECORD&CD COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 23rd 
10:00 AM-5:00 PM ADMISSION $3.00 AT: THE HOLIDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) 
.51.5 DIXlEWAY N. US 31 -33 NOR1H 
FREE Admission with this ad!! 
BUY. SELL.TRADE COILECI'ffiLES FROM THE 
LP's-CD'•-45's· 12 inclt singles· imporu 
posters -1114gazina • boob • COIICUI pltota.s -vitkos Hltiru -cassetta •pin.J •pa1dta and mudt mo~!/1 
FOR DEALER 


No. 2 Islamic leader, Ismet Spahic, sought in mid-October to reassure other groups that Muslims want all religions to feel at home. 
But Croat and Serb residents are increasingly uneasy about the spreading campaign to en­courage Bosnian Muslims to pay more attention to Islamic beliefs and customs. 
The rise in religious influence has been aided by the flight of Sarajevo's intellectual and pro­fessional elite, who once formed the cornerstone of the capital's liberal secularism. 
Estimates of the "brain drain" range from 50 percent to 75 percent of elites. At the same time, poor, uneducated and embittered Muslim refugees have poured into the capital, providing fertile ground for Islamic fundamentalists. 
"The problem is very few people -probably only the stubborn people like me ­want to stay," said Zdrako Grebo, a law professor and founder of independent Radio Zid. 
Intellectuals blame Western neglect of Bosnia for Islam's in­cursions. 
"When the principle of ethnic division of Bosnia was accept­ed, everyone should have known what the consequences would be ... radicalism on all sides, including ours," said Adil Kulenovic, a Muslim who is a philosophy professor and chief editor at Studio 99, another independent radio station. 

International peace plans have been based on dividing Bosnia into semi-autonomous regions for Muslims, Serbs and Croats. All three groups are Slavs, but Croats acquired Catholicism from centuries of Austro-Hungarian rule and Muslims adopted the faith of Ot­toman Turk masters. 
If Bosnia is divided along such lines, Kulenovic warns, "this will be·a mujahedeen, Islamic, radical state. The war can stop, but we will have terrorists here." 
Islamic countries, promi­nently Iran, have filled the void left by Western inaction with hundreds of millions of dollars in cash and material aid. 
INTERVIEW SUITS & ALTERATIONS 
We offer the best quality & best service at the best price in town. We provide the best selection (Perry Ellis, Nino Cerruti, Austin Reed, Bill Blass) for $250-350. 
Hours: 
M-F 8a.m.-6p.m. =:EJIIJ 

ff}J:!:il:)
Sat 9a.m.-3p.m. 
Tuwe & Country Shopping Center. 2452 Miracle Lane, Mishawaka, ln. 
thing to hit N 
filming of "RUDY''; dare I 1mWJl[@{ wonder how you were ev out it. So watch for the si peaceably and obediently. 
8QJ TQJ ••• IBIIII'BIT f)9Jtl~~ 
•
• IIQJ'Y/BIIBBR IRD 
Brought to you by your friends at the Student Union Board. Aren't we great?! 

Thursday, October 20, 1994 The Observer • ISRAEL page 7 
Terrorist bomb on Israeli bus kills 22 Survivors 
By MII<I BUKOVSKY The latest wave of violence Associated Press began Oct. 9, when two by­
Terror bombing in Tel Av.iv recount 
standers were killed by radicals 
At least 22 people were killed in one of the worst ever terror attacks in Israel when a TEL AVIV who sprayed a busy Jerusalem bomb on a commuter bus exploded in the heart of Tel Aviv. Islamic militants are A terrorist bomb shattered cafe district with gunfire. A believed to be behind the attack. 


explosion

two buses today in the heart of week later, an Israeli soldier Tel Aviv's shopping and cafe was kidnapped, then shot to 
ByDANPERRY district. At least 22 people were death by his captors as Israeli Associated Press reported killed and 48 wounded soldiers tried to rescue him. in the attack claimed by Islamic Today's attack exploded the TEL AVIV militants. euphoria surrounding Israel's Iris Panian was one stop The attack was the third by peacemaking with Jordan. A away from work when an Islamic radicals in 11 days and draft peace treaty was initialed explosion blew apart her com­came as Israel was cementing on Monday, and festivities were muter bus, turning the bustling peace with its Arab neighbors. being planned for the signing of main shopping street of Tel 
The 9 a.m. blast ripped apart the accord next week in a cer­Aviv into a nightmare scene of a commuter bus heading north emony to be witnessed by 5,000 strewn body parts and twisted on Dizengoff Street during rush people, including President wreckage. hour and wrecked a second bus Clinton. The white No. 5 bus turned passing in the other direction. Foreign Minister Shimon into a blackened shell of twist­There were reports the bomber Peres vowed that Israel "will 
ed metal and glass, and a red carried explosives in a sack not hesitate to find those re­bus passing at the time of the when he boarded the bus. sponsible for this terrible action blast had its windshield shat­
"People went flying into the and to prevent them in the fu­tered. air, arms and legs, it was a very ture." 
"I felt like I had been electro­

terrible thing," said Moshe In London, Prime Minister cuted. For a few minutes I Reiner, who was walking to Vitzhak Rabin said he would re­couldn't move," said the 29­work when the blast occurred. turn early from his trip and year-old cashier. She saw a 
The bus, a charred skeleton blamed Islamic radicals for try­jumble of bodies at the front of of twisted metal, stood in the ing to destroy the peace pro­the bus, where the blast oc­middle of the city's main street cess. curred. with bodies of women and a "It is a continuation of the at­street after the blast. tougher with the Palestinians Doron Gambash, 25, ran over child sprawled on the sidewalk. tempt by those who are the en­"How much more can we he would be "personally and found the driver with his Police spokeswoman Eti emies of peace, the extreme take?" screamed one young responsible for a wave of disas­head blown off. Greenburg said 20 people were Islamic terror groups," he said. girl. ters that will follow.' Gambash said 'all hell broke killed and 48 wounded. Israeli Liberal members of the Cabi­Another teen-ager stood near Vasser Abed Rabbo, a loose" as the reality of what radio reports spoke of 22 killed. net called for the peace talks the site, sobbing for a boyfriend spokesman for Vasser Arafat's had happened dawned on sur­"People flew from the side­with the Palestinians to con­who apparently did not survive. PLO-run autonomy government vivors. walk, the head of the driver tinue, and the PLO denounced "The whole house swayed, in Gaza, condemned the attack People ran screaming. Bodies 
was completely cut off," said the attack. and the windows shook," said and called it a "horrible and body parts lay amid the Eitan Vamini, who witnessed President Ezer Weizman Liora Cohen, who lived close to action.'' wreckage ofthe bus. Shattered the explosion that occurred be­urged Israelis to remain calm. the site of today's attack. "I "We denounce it completely, glass of cafes, restaurants and 
tween Dizengoff Square and "I appeal to the citizens of Is­saw flames shooting up from and we consider that this crime banks was scattered about. Frishman Street. rael to take a deep breath, a lot the bus and then smoke. People is against the relations between Ariella Ronen, who was still 
Israel immediately closed the of patience and forbearance.... were running around scream­the Israeli people and the shaking as she sat in a shoe West Bank and Gaza Strip, bar­These are enemies of peace ing." Palestinian people," he said to­store, said she was walking to ring thousands of Palestinians who try to torpedo things," Police pushed back by­day on Israel Radio. work when the explosion went from entering Israel. The gov­Weizman said. standers and sent in bomb "The answer we believe to off near the Tivoli Cafe. ernment called an emergency Mayor Roni Milo said police squad experts after a suspected such an incident is to continue "The bus was completely Cabinet meeting and ordered delayed removing bodies from second bomb was found. A he­our process and to implement it burnt and parts of bodies were buses stopped and searched for the bus because they feared the licopter flew overhead and on the ground," he said. all over the ground. There was bombs. body of the terrorist was booby­dozens of ambulances raced to Ori Orr, a leading member of a woman lying on the ground 
An anonymous caller to Israel trapped. pick up the wounded and dead. the ruling Labor party in par­with part of the bus on her," Radio claimed responsibility in An announcer fought back Israel's right-wing leader liament, said the attack was ap­she said. the name of Hamas, a funda­tears on Israel's Channel 2 tele­Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel parently linked to Monday's A crane was brought in to lift mentalist Muslim group that vision as she reported the should permanently close the peace accord between Jordan the bus and look for more bod­opposes Israel's peacemaking attack. Gaza Strip, an autonomous and Israel. Clinton is expected ies. with the Palestine Liberation Dozens of people ran scream­Palestinian zone. He warned to witness the signing of that Hundreds, then thousands, of Organization. ing and in panic along the that if Rabin did not get peace treaty on Oct. 26. curious onlookers strained past 
police barricades for a look. 
Some rabble-rousers tried to incite the crowd into riot, their sporadic shouts of "Death to Arabs!" heard over the din of


Recycle




LAFAYETTE SQUARE 
police helicopters, ambulance sirens and the shouts of rescue workers.
the 
The explosion was a rare as­sault on the center of Tel Aviv -an oasis of prosperity prized by Israelis for its seeming lack 

TOWNHOMES 
Observer 

of a connection to the Arab-Is­raeli conflict. 
"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
• 
FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 

• 
TWO BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 


• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR AND RANGE 

• 
WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT 



Donald P. Kommers 
• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 



Robbie Inaugural Lecture • Thursday. October 20th 4:15P.M.
• 24-HOUR MAINTENANCE 
Center for Continuing Education Auditorium

• ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
Corrunentators: 
Mary Ann Glendon Harvard Law School 

NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
Walter F. Murphy Princeton University 
Fred R. Dallmayr 

University of Notre Dame 

232-8256 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, October 20, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 7 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters 
Managing Editor John Lucas 
News Editor .................................. Dave Tyler Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan 
Business Manager Joseph Riley 

Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Controller ..................................... Kristen Marrina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Maty's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 

Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  E-Mail  Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu  
631-7471  Unix  observer@boron.helios.nd.edu  


• I, FARRINGTON 

Blood boils over sexist pigs 
Gender Bias! The very words their matins and eating por­make my blood boil. The ugly ridge. I hope this disclosure spirit of sexism is afoot at our does them no great disservice. fine university, and our "loyal Or what of our pineal glands, sons" have much to answer for. the translucent, snakelike sense I often wonder, what do the organs with which we ogle women of the Notre Dame cam­women when they are not look­pus make of our unregenerate ing? When that tendril sexism? Consider these awful emerges from a man's head, jokes posted at Alumni and peering quizzically right and Carroll halls. Do we consider left, it is not the dashing acces­them funny? Are we to snort sory most men make it out to be. and chortle at their de­Far from it. It is an insult to our humanizing message? By snick­mothers and sisters, to women ering at every­their objec-where, tifying 
when we misogyny, peek at we are them from
Josh implicated a nest of in their ear hair. evil, yes, ( T h e
Ozersky
every last pineal one of us. g l a n d Except g r o w s 
me. As a kind of neutral being between the sexes, I feel it is my office to attempt to smooth things over. The ladies are on the warpath over these ill-timed jests, and perhaps the time has come for Notre Dame men to put aside some of their secret pursuits, even those the you-know-whos haven't caught on to yet. 
For example, our smoke-filled secret room at the back of the Moreau Seminary. For years the secret traditions of Alma Mater have decreed that we sit together in waistcoats and cod­pieces, sipping aged port and smoking big cigars. The few women who have chanced across this hidden chamber have had to be destroyed; I ask you, is that any way to treat our fellow students? The brothers, innocent of all our frolics, mean­while carried on unawares above us, presumably saying 
more acute with age, and requires concomi­tantly greater camouflage; hence the need of older men for their white tufts of ear hair.) 
I sometimes despair for the virtue of ND men. How many times have I sat, benumbed with shame, in the bathroom stall reading the spiteful banter on the wall. "I Love ND Men," writes one furtive soul, to which some wag has added, with a ref­erential arrow, "Your a Fagot." Another has commented on this, writing, "Homophobic Fascist! I am Gay and Proud," prompting the predictable response, "YOUR A FAGOT TOO." Though three different handwritings appear, I suspect that all the remarks were made by the same man, in sweatshirt and buzzcut, literally bristling with hostility and a desire to foster it in all factions. Such a man does the Notre Dame community no credit. 

And it doesn't stop in the bathroom! The "jokes" on the walls of Alumni and Carroll are dove coos in comparison with the vicious sloganeering carved, with talons it seems, on the sides of desks on the upper floors of Hesburgh. Talk about your non-in'clusive language! This stuff is punctuated with barbed wire. 
It's time for Notre Dame's men to pick up the cross of womanly dignity. Stop writing all that nasty stuff on the walls, and using male pronouns all the time. Remove the electrical im­plants the university ~uts in in­structor's heads; there is no need to condition them via elec­troshock not to call on women as often as men. The musty Chronicle of Men we are re­quired to read at various Java lamp-lit altars can also be dis­pensed with. The reversible painting of Father Hesburgh (the obverse is a portrait of a scowling Lee Marvin) should be replaced with a conventional version, to be kept there at all hours, whether there are women in the room or not. Likewise, let us sew up the re­movable eyes from the various paintings in the women's dorms. We can do without our secret access codes to the 900 num­bers, and our invitation-only cockfights at the JACC, too. The library's video catalog ought to come clean, finally, and reveal once and for all that those Mclnery on Dante videos, vols. 1-19, in fact are all fronts for NFL highlight films. 
Speak out For Women, NO men. You have nothing to lose but your pineal glands! 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. 
Residents not.. responsible ,'ior P~l)}';;g'S' words 
-·-·:·,·~:-·
Ed" 

Dear.. . ._•tor: ·' :n:r:~t:''···,·,:w·· , .· .. ~~:"::·,.,·,·...... ='.=.=./.=:::~':! ;~=':·· We are writing this bi response to Theresa Aleman's article that appeared in last Thursday's Observer. In this article, 
Aleman reprinted a top. ten list from an Alumni Hall newsletter (the Dawghouse) first published in March of 1993 that was read at the recent forum for women's issues. As co-presidents 
of Alumni Hall. we have been requested by numerous women on campus to apologize tor ourselves and our dorm mates for the colllments made in this newsletter. 
Although the Oawghouse is in no way endorsed or supported by Alumni Hall, It has been monitored by our rector since the publication of the very edition quoted in The Observer. The author of the noted Dawghouse was reprimanded by our rec­tor at the time for his irresponsibility, offensiveness, and vul­garity. Furthermore, at the time this issue was printed, well over half of Alumni's current residents {who we've been or­dered to apologize for) were not even ND students. 
In an effort to discern why a two year old copy of Alumni's newsletter was quoted at a forum on current social issues, we called Joe Evans, who read the Dawghouse at the event. Joe explained that he had wanted to speak at the meeting, but had only the recent notes from Carroll Hall as evidence of sexist attitudes on campus. Feeling that he needed something more substantial, he took a copy of the Dawghouse down from the wall of the Women's Resource Center, where it had been hanging since the center opened. According to Joe, he never said that he obtained the newsletter directly from Alumni or referred to them as hall government notes. Both of these statements were reported in The Observer as facts. After con­tacting Aleman, she stressed that she was merely reporting on the forum and "felt no responsibility" to obtain a statement from anyone in Alumni or Carroll. 
Since last Thursday two letters to the editor, one Inside Column, and an editorial have been devoted to this issue. In addition , we have received numerous phone calls from anony­mous women demanding dorm apologies and punishment to the author of the Dawghouse. Had Aleman done a thorough job of reporting her story, she could have written her article using the Dawghouse as an example, but adding a footnote to explaining the issue had been dealt with when it occurred. 
We. in Alumni Hall do not wish to perpetuate any sexist thoughts or ideas. We respect all women and, as a dorm, are against comments like those printed in the March 4, 1993 Dawghouse. As representatives of Alumni Hall, we offer an apology for those former residents who exercised bad judg­ment. At the same time, the current residents of Alumni do not feel that we should bear responsibility for what was writ­ten two years ago. 
&hih:: GREG BORKOWSKI
.··'·«:"'··· 
JAMES DELANEY Alumni Hall Co-Presidents 


GARRY TRUDEAU • QUOTE Of THE DAY 
I¥5PECT: A K£Ya&M&NT RE'3PECT; OF()}URS8, IS q()!Yf£.­
IN OIARAmR 7HATC:OV­7HING 7HA~ t:.AI<NW. UT'5 
&RN9 f(()aJtu8 71?£ATOTH&I<. tOOl< AT AN IN'37RfJCTIV& 
Pf!fOPa, RIGHT, 8.[). 2 &P/50a HD11 B.P.'5 PN3T,,. 
''You can't hold a man
IROU.m 

I down without staying down with him." 
-Booker T. Washington 

-~---~----· 
-~~ 





ACCENT 
Thursday, October 20, 1994 page 9 
• Musu; REVIEW 
Crunch: Thick guitars with heavy rhythms 
By ROB ADAMS 
excited rhythm as the drums Music Critic and eventually guitars and bass 
join in. 
With all of the genres devel­Kotzen's vocals are mar­oping in today's music and all velous and he receives fabulous of the radio formats struggling background help from Timothy helplessly to understand them B. Schmit. After he gives the all, it almost seems impossible song a "once-around," a superb that any new styles can surface. guitar solo comes in to carry That is probably true for now, the song into the stratosphere, but in the meantime, at least with Kotzen humming dramati­we can come up with some new cally to give support at a couple names for sub-genres. of spots. 
Hence, welcome "Crunch" to "Socialite" begins the album the scene. Crunch is my own with a bang; the bass is fast personal label for bands who and furious while Kotzen's play guitar with their arms vocal delivery is not too far rather than their fingers, slam behind. "I don't want your con­at the drums as if controlled by versation, I don't want your beasts, and create a sound so party/1 would stand for alien­thick that it would be difficult to ation before I'd see me that process controlled movements way/Cause I got heart and soul if loud enough. Big Chief Richie Kotzen from mamma and daddy gave 
Big Chief is a band from the Platinum Jive Mother Head's Family Reunion me prideffruth I cannot hide,"Capitol Records, 1994 Geffen Records, 1994
Motor City who definitely sub­Kotzen wails as he blasts into scribes to my crunch descrip­the chorus. 
**** *** 
tion. With a mix of funky 
Old School rapper Schooly D Out." A distorted guitar leads playing make him a prime can­
rhythms with guitar that is On "Used" Kotzen truly
performs on the hip-hop jam, into a spurning bass which trig­didate for "Crunch Artist of the 
absolutely smarting, they shows his vocal strength as he
"Bona Fide." A solid string gers the song. Vocals take a Year."
anchor a myriad of different provides his own background
bass backs up his rhyme flow definite back seat in this one; An easy way to sum up
musical formats on their new vocals. A slightly laid-back
as brief wah-wah pedal riffs experimental guitar posturing Kotzen's new album, Mother
album, Platinum Jive. groove is set on this one, as
seem to be telling him "rock­reigns supreme. "Locked Out" Head's Family Reunion, is to
A cyclical attack of the guitar Kotzen complains of being a
rock on" at the end of each line. could pass for a punk song if it say that he was probably the
brutally hijacks the forefront of fool for love. Atma Anur on
"So I stay funky/1 keep on were stripped down. .first person in line for Lenny
the song, "Lion's Mouth." With drums provides wonderfully
groovin'/1 been around ten long Philadelphia-born Richie Kravitz/Blind Melon tickets in 
a bass support smooth as syrup unpredictable transitions. 
years just to prove it," he raps Kotzen is another artist who Fall1993.
and a palpable usage of vocal 
on a call to dismiss all those would fall into the fictional cat­Nowhere is this more evident
distortion, the song meanders Let's hope that crunch is
who are fakin' the funk. egory of crunch. His raspy than on his cover of "Reach Out 
its way over a breakbeat combi­here to stay because its sappy,
Only a few tracks later, how­vocals, retro ideals, and self­I'll Be There," a spirited seven­
nation of drums, cymbals, and heavy riffs and user-friendly
ever, Big Chief explodes into proclaimed "free attitude" minute exploration of the 1966
tambourines. rhythms are too sorely missed
the hard-core workout, "Locked added to his thick, gooey guitar hit. Tambourines provide 
otherwise. 
Rectors monitor card games and campus streakers 
By PATTI CARSON University responsibilities; Rectors are faculty mem­Saint Mary's Accent Editor bers or work in administrative or service offices. In any case, a Rector is responsible for up to as many 
Can you imagine living in a dorm on campus after as 524 students in some dorms. They are also respon­you graduate and while you are working? Some peo­sible for the coordination and supervision of staff ple do. These people are the residence hall directors members, which may include up to 15 people, and for and the rectors of the dorms on both campuses. the development of religious and community service, 
Shea Powell, a second year residence director of and educational programs that support the McCandless Hall, says that she is no longer a "rookie." University's mission. Powell, like Saint Mary's students, washes her clothes Sister Carrine Etheridge is in her second year as in the laundry room and she also eats in the dining hall Rector of Farley Hall. Sister Carrine claims that a sometimes. majority of her time is spent working with the students 
"I love my apartment in McCandless," she said. "It and counseling them. has a living room, a full kitchen, a bedroom, and a bathroom." Her apartment is like her house, but she The best part of her job, according to Sister Carrine, must respect the same policies as the students. is the unpredictability. "One night last year, the 
As far as the job description goes, Saint Mary's resi­Cavanaugh men charged through Farley in their dence hall advisors must supervise the resident advi­skivvies chanting 'Cavanaugh, Cavanaugh!"she said. sor (RA) staff, advise hall council, and participate in Sister Carrine works on open door policy in an effort judicial board hearings. Furthermore, they must act to get acquainted with the 250 Farley residents. as counselors and programmers, according to Clemson "Usually, I try to keep my apartment door open so that graduate Powell. students are encouraged to stop by," she said. But 
"The job of residence hall directors tends to have a Sister Carrine humorously warns students: "I am not a high burnout rate since directors must live on cam­nice nun before 10 a.m. After 10 a.m., I can be a very pus," Powell said. Plus, directors, are human. They pleasant person." have personal lives which make it challenging to live "One of the greatest joys of my job is working with on campus. such a fine staff," she said. Sister Carrine claims that 
Rachel Tenyer, Holy Cross Hall Resident Director, is she is still a "rookie," but it is evident that her disposi­in the process of planning her November wedding. tion and determination will make her a "pro" in no After the wedding, her husband will be living with her time. in the Holy Cross Hall apartment. "Actually, I'm very Father George Rozum, Rector of Alumni Hall is no lucky because I have the biggest apartment of the four rookie. Father George, a 1963 graduate of The directors on campus." And before she moved here for University of Notre Dame, has been the Rector of the first time this summer, her apartment was newly Alumni Hall for 17 years. carpeted and wallpapered. 
Tenyer received both her undergraduate and mas­One of the most enjoyable ways in which Father ters degree at Valparaiso University. She said that her George interacts with students is through cards. He job keeps her very busy since Holy Cross Hall teaches Alumni Hall residents how to play Bridge. Residents share "a lot of enthusiasm." "We play every Tuesday night from now until the end
Sister Carrine Etheridge is going on her second year as 
"The dorm residents are definitely living up to and rector of Farley Hall. Similarly to the rectors and residence of March," he said. He also participates in the spring beyond my expectations. The Hall Council and the stu­hall staffs of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, she serves as SYR. at Alumni Hall. dents have already organized a lot of hall events to a friend and a hall administrator. Whether rectors or residence hall directors, these show hall spirit," she said. people make communication and interaction with stu­
her party with the McCandless RA's in my apartment.
"One of the most challenging aspects of the job is dents a top priority. They sacrifice a lot of privacy and 
We had a huge snowball fight outside. Just having
getting to know the residents and the resident advi­patience to live in the dorms with students and to act
that connection, that bond with the women of the col­
sors," Tenyer said. Tenyer learns names by making as mentors and friends.
lege makes my job fun." 
rounds with the RA's. According to both Tenyer and Powell, the year is off With people like these in charge, maybe living on
Moving across the street to the Notre Dame campus,
to a productive start. Powell looks forward to more campus isn't so bad. After all, would the landlord of
the rectors serve as the heads of the residence hall
exciting moments in the remainder of this year as she your apartment building sit down with you to a game
staffs. Though the Rector's position is a full-time
recalls her favorite memory from the previous year: of Bridge each week or automatically offer you a Dr.
appointment, those who hold it often have other
"Last year, right after Christmas break, I had a slum-Pepper upon your arrival? I didn't think so. 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 20, 1994 
• BASEBAlL 


Hamelin takes rookie honors New mediator helps 
By BEN WALKER ing by the Baseball Writers string, the Royals closed within Associated Press Association of America. He also four games of the AL Central­
resume contract talks 
NEW YORK 
Bob Hamelin, who inherited Kansas City's designated hitting job from George Brett and became one of the league's best sluggers, was an easy winner Wednesday as AL rookie of the 
year. 
Hamelin was the first DH to win the rookie award, and the first Royals player to earn it since Lou Piniella in 1969. The honor, now named the Jackie Robinson Rookie Award, was frrst presented in 194 7. 
Hamelin hit 24 home runs, drove in 65 runs and batted . 2 8 2. He led AL rookies in homers, RBis, runs (64), hits (88), doubles (25), walks (56) and games (101) when the players' strike started Aug. 12. 
Hamelin, who also played 24 games at frrst base, received 25 of 28 first-place votes in ballot-got three second-place votes and fmished with 134 points. 

Cleveland outfielder Manny Ramirez, who hit .269 with 17 home runs and 60 RBis, was runner-up with 44 points. Texas outfielder Rusty Greer, who hit .314 with 46 RBis and also made a diving catch that fmished off Kenny Rogers' per­fect game, got the other three first-place votes and was third with 42 points. 
The NL rookie award will be announced Thursday. 
Hamelin, 26, broke Bo Jackson's rookie Royals record of 22 home runs set in 1987. Hamelin's biggest homer was a two-out, three-run shot in the bottom of the 12th inning off Chicago reliever Roberto Hernandez on July 25 for a 6-4 victory that kept alive Kansas City's eventual 14-game win­ning streak. Helped by the leading White Sox when the strike started. 
Hamelin also became a fan favorite at Kauffman Stadium, earning the nickname "The Hammer." After the All-Star break, many fans showed up at the park waving toy hammers when he came to the plate. 
Overall, Hamelin ranked ninth in the AL in home runs, fifth in slugging (.599) and fourth in home-run ratio, con­necting once every 13 at-bats. 
Hamelin showed power from his first year in pro ball, lead­ing the Northwest League with 17 home runs for Euguene af­ter being picked by the Royals in the second round of the June draft. Hamelin sustained sev­eral back injuries in his next few seasons before going through an injury-free 1993, when he hit 29 home runs for Triple-A Omaha. 

By RONALD BLUM· 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Baseball players and owners finally resumed negotiations today, this time with new me­diator W.J. Usery. Still, it was clear the sides didn't have much to talk about. 
"Let's see how Mr. Usery takes control and how this moves along," Colorado Rockies owner Jerry McMorris said before the meeting began. "I look for owners to be very involved." 
Thirty-one people sat around a square-shaped meeting table at a Washington club as talks resumed after a 40-day break. At the table were 13 manage­ment representatives and 14 from the union, including play­ers Carlos Baerga, Jay Bell, David Cone, Tom Glavine, Scott Sanderson and Terry 
Steinbach. At the head of the table were Usery and three aides. 
The meeting was only the fourth since the union struck Aug. 12. 
Eleven members of manage­ment's bargaining group met Tuesday in Washington with Richard Ravitch, their head negotiator. 
Usery, picked by the Clinton Administration last Friday, is considered the top mediator in the country. He wasn't talking about his expectations, or even how long the meeting would last. 
"I don't know," he said. ''I'll talk after the meeting." 
The sides last met Sept. 9, five days before owners can­celed the World Series for the first time since 1904. Acting commissioner Bud Selig attend­ed that meeting but not today's. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
ARE YOU STAYING IN SOUTH BEND OVER FALL BREAK? Come join us at the Center for the Homeless. We need your help in many areas: front desk, children's activities, tutoring, and kitchen duties. Come down and spend your free time with us. There are many people who would appreciate your volunteer effort, and don't think that you won't get anything out of it, too! 
CALL FELICIA AT 282-8700 
USED BOOKS & CLIFF'S NOTES 
Pandora's Books 233-2342 
NO Ave & Howard M-Sa/10-6 
Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST STUDENT 1.0. NEAR GATE 15 ON SAT. 1011. REWARD. CALL 287-4546. THANK YOU. 
••••• $50 REWARD ..... For the RETURN of or information leading to the RETURN of two CO's: Pea~ Jam and Nirvana "All Acoustically". Please call272­4021. 
Found: Bike-lock key 
October 12 9:00pm 
between Farley and NOH 
call Eric x1 087 
FOUND!!! Reading glasses accom­
panied with a turquoise(sp?) 
colored glass case. Found just out­
side the ROTC building. Please 
Call 'Dog at x1670 
or the D.O.C. x1352 
thanx, ceuh ceuh ceuh 
LOST: A black camera last seen at the Linebacker. Please call Laura at X2718-REWARDI!! 
LOST: small blue topaz/diamond 
ring somewhere between C1 lot 
and library. Call Jennifer at 273­
4516 Cash reward if found 
LOST-grey tent was last seen out­
side PE. call x4544 
WANTED 
*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$"$" 
FASCINATING CONVERSATION! 
Looking for a ride from NO to 
Milwaukee Thursday night October 
Please Call Pierre x1184 
*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$* 
1 Membership ..Privileges or Just 
Lou It XL shirt. $Tom X2042 
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break 
Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 
1 (800)359-9808 CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ment available. No experience nec­essary. For more information call 1­206-634-0468 ext. C55841 
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK '951 LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE. BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1 ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL 
FREEl SUN SPLASH TOURS1­800-426-771 0 
BABYSITTER -2 children 1-2 half days per wk. Occasional evenings. $5.00 hr. 272-5029 
Wanted!!! Individuals and Student Organizations to Promote SPRING 
BREAK '95. Earn substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL 
INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­800-327-6013 
FOR RENT 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­773-2034 
Rm Available-$225/mo, 5-min 
drive 232-7175 or 631-4809 
ROOMS 
Lovely clean home 7 mi. away for 
overnite gusts for NO games or 
other NO events. Former NO grad. 
Very reasonable 291-2279. 
FOR SALE 
Mac Plus, Harddrive, and Image Writter II for sale. $400. Call x3342. 
4 Sale GAs 4 all Home Games 
271-2837 
Spring Break Early Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise, 6 days & 12 meals $279! Panama City Oceanview Kitchens $1291 Cancun & Jamaica $399! Daytona $159! Keys $2291 CocoaBeach $15911­800-678-6386 
One way tkl to NYC, Cheap Travel 
anytime before dec. Call 277-5316. 
'94 Deluxe Plymouth Voyager, 
leather interior, loaded, 10,000 
miles, assume loan, $21,800. Call 
233-8855 
For Sale T-Shirts $4 Call277-7131 
Plane ticket Nov4 $50 
Chi-Hous-San Fran Eric 1087 I have 4 roundtrip plane tix to Orlando that leave the Thurs. before FSU. Each ticket is $200 or best offer. Call Trout at 271-1390. 

LTICKETS 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. 272-6551 
FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL HOME GAMES. 272-7233. 
I need one Air Force GA or student ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please call X3822. Thanks! 
I NEED NAVY GA'S MARKX1640 
I NEED FSU TIX KEVIN @ X3457 
I need 2 GAs for Navy. Please call Kristine at 4-3806. Thank you VERY MUCH! 
NEED I STUD. & 2 GA'S FOR AIR FORCE. CALL LOU @ 233-4008. 
I need a stud tick or GA for AF 
II!I!Piease call Connie x360411111 
$$$$$Help! I need Air Force GAs. Please ~all Gina at 277-0740.$$$$$ 
Desperately need 1 NAVY TICKET 
for mylittle brother. Please call 
Becky :<2526. 
NEEDED: GA's for NAVY. 
Call Strlve at 4-1909. 
Need:;~ Navy GAs Call Tony at 
634-4E,32. 

I have two Navy GA's. Need 'em? 
Call Jrln x4281 
Loyal NO alum needs 2 Navy GAs x1359 
$$$$$$ 

Navy GA's NEEDED for 
Family Call Marc 233-4008 
$$$$$$$$ 

Need many Navy tix Stud or GA's 
This is for a great cause, my family 
will be here. I love my family & I'll 
love you too if you sell me your tix. 
Please, with sugar on top, call 
Charlie at x3830 
It's my dad's 50th Birthday and I 
want to make his day. You can 
help mel! Sell me 
FOUR AIR FORCE GAS 
PleasEt????ll 
Thanks. Michelle 284-5512 
Need GA's to Air Force and Navyl Please call4-1330. 
I NEED 3 AF GAs! Sam X4872 
I need 2 Navy Stud 
Call Clare X2556 Need 6 Navy Ga's Bill271-9471 
Desperately Need Navy GA's X1421 
I need GA's for AF and Navy. Please Call634-4574. 
I need 2 AF GA's will pay $50 ea. Jon@ x1151 
Need Navy GA's Andy 289-3736 

Need 2 Navy GA's x2567, Kate 
Need 2 AIR FORCE GAs 
Please call Curtis-282-2197 
$$NEEDED$$ AIR FORCE GA'S CALL GARY 277-9279 

2 FSU GA'S FOR SALE. CALL ROSI AT 634-4476. 
I HAVE NAVY STUD TIX 4 SALE MICHELE 284-5326 
$$$$$ NEED 2-4 GA'S $$$$$ $$$FOR NAVY, CALL LA$$$ $$$$$$ @ 284-5132 $$$$$$ 
1 NAVY STUD. TICKET 4 SALE. X 1403 
DESPARATELY NEED 8 NAVY GAs MIKE 1845 
NEED AIF FORCE GA'S. 
CALL JOE AT 2712. 
FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED! NEED:4NAVY 
4STANFORD CONTACT SEAN TRACY 222 GRACE 4-1861 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S FOR MY 8 YRS. OLD BROTHER AND A FAMILY FRIEND. PLEASE HELP ME II call BRIAN @ 271-9081 
Need: GA's and Student Tix For Air Force. Will pay Big Bucks! Call Liz 273-2179. Thanks\ 
WANTED: One GA or 
Student Ticket 
for 
NAVY 
Call Norm@ 634-1023 
NEED AF GA'S OR STUD TIX 
X3098 
NeedAFGA 
Will pay top $$$ 
x1751 

NEED 1 AF & 1 NAVY GA. CALL JOSE 1661. 
I NEED 1 NAVY GA BADLY MIKE X42210 
For sale stu tix Navy & Air Force 30 $ ea 272-5674 
HELP!! I need one student ticket for my little sister for Navy!! Call John X2213 
I HAVE NAVY STUDS CALL KEVIN @271-7428 
2 FSU-ND TIX 25 yard line, upper deck, Third row, seats 19&20. Call Greg, 904-673­8812 Best offer. 
I'm selling my Navy stud. Dan 273­0855 
Need 2 Navy GAs 4 rents from CAl NO gave us the shaft! Call Stone 289-9857 
For sale grad stu tickets for Navy & Air Force 25$ each 237-0072 
I need 4 GA's, or 2 GA's and 2 stu 
(1M& 1 F), for Navy! Call Bill x2007 and leave message with price. 
NAVY GA's Desperately Needed 
call Mike at X4622 
PERSONAL 
THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune Student Center now accepts VISA, MC, and MAC cards for your copying needs. 
Female Grad Students 
Need 1 more roommate-
Oak Hill $300/mo. 273-6153 
Looking lor RIDERS to share $ lor 
drive to Durham, NC area for Oct 
Break. Will stop along way. Call 
Marc 233-4008 
"The Inexperience of Bessette" 
Have you ever responded to those "Need a Ride" signs? Have you ever hitched a ride home or given a ride to someone who lives in your home state? If you answered yes to this and if you have any funny, crazy, scary, etc. stories about the adventure/trip home, call me. I'm writing a feature about this for the Accent page and I need your sto­ries. Patti 284-4310. 
Got a pal at IOWA STATE? 
I need a ROUND TRIP rider only. 
Leaving NO 10/21, returning 
10/24. Karen x2458 
YOU CAN STILL GET INTO THE 
ACTION!! 

SEINFEST '94!! 
NOV.3 
SIGN UP IN THE SUB OFFICE 
UNTIL FRIDAY!! 
"The Inexperience of Bessette" Juggler needed for SMC Christmas Madrigal Dinners. Call 284-4632 
LONDON PROGRAM 
APPLICATIONS 
are due 
5:00PM 
Friday, Oct. 21 
Happy Birthday II You, Ugly Baby! Love, Mama and the Pretty Babies 
Attention Queer Folks and Friends there will be an activities night tonight at 7:30 lor more info call the a line 287-6665 
NEED RIDE TO AND FROM NEW ORLEANS OVER FALL BREAK. WILL HELP WITH GAS/DRIVING 
MATT X3584 
Quality Copies, Quickly!!! 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
VISIT ORLANDO! Notre Dame/FSU game weekend. ECONO LODGE CENTRAL-1 mile from stadium. $48 +tax (Advance Res. Rate) $3 R.T. Shuttle. Large, clean rooms, pool, HBO, ESPN, Fast Eddie's Bar & Grill800-293-7234. 
"The Inexperience of Bessette" 
boba fell 
TOP TEN THINGS TO BUY LISA 
FOR HER BIRTHDAY 
10. Little Chocolate Footballs 
9. A fan with an OFF switch 
8. An SMC basketball jersey 
7. A final room arrangement 
6. Teevas 
5. An oil painting of Regina Hall 
4. Grateful Dead tix 
3. Ability to correctly say Moike 
2. A keg 
1. Membership lo the "Keenan 
Sucks" Club Happy Birthday! Love 2 North City 
*1*1*!*1*1.1*1*1*!*1*!*1*1*!*1*1*!*!*!*!*!* 
Maureen, 
HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY! 
We hope you feel better and 
have a great day. 
Love, 
Your friends from 
P.E., 7th floor 
*1*!*1*1*!*1*1*1*1*1*1*1*!*1*1*1*!*!*!*!*!* 
Hey Morgs, You's are so crazy. Do you knows whether we are in Flanner or Grace? Can't wait to pop the cork on the champagne bottle. We's are going to party hard tonight! Until then, adios amigal 
Much love, 
G 
Lynn and Jessica, 
Happy Ei!rlY Birthday!!! 
Have fun over fall break (only two 
more days of class)l!l 
Love, 
T.G. and H.G. 

Thursday, October 20, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 11 
• BASKETBALl 

Ex-Buckeye Jackson Striking NHL players flee 

defends Ayers, OSU 
By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Jim Jackson returned to St. John Arena Wednesday carry­ing the promise of a young NBA team along with memories of a glorious period in Ohio State basketball. 
Jackson, who led Ohio State to two Big Ten titles before leaving after the 1991-92 sea­son, was wearing the uniform of the Dallas Mavericks on his latest visit to the arena he filled for three years. 
"It feels good, even though I've been here all summer," the 6-foot-6 third-year guard said before an exhibition game in Columbus against the Cleveland Cavaliers. "It's a different atmosphere, sort of like playing here again even though I'm wearing a different uniform." 
A large crowd cheered Jackson and gave him a stand­ing ovation when the starting lineups were announced. 
Prior to the game, it was an­nounced that Jackson was giv­ing Ohio State a $100,000 gift to be divided between the ath­letic department and the school's black cultural center. 
Jackson's homecoming con­jured up memories for Buckeye fans. He departed after his ju­nior year for a six-year, $20 million contract with the Mavericks. 
Since then, the Ohio State program has been reduced to ashes. Records of 15-14 and 13-16 came the next two years. Ohio State was put on one year of NCAA probation this spring because of recruiting violations. 
In addition, an ugly string of assaults and gunplay resulted in three players being kicked off the team. Two others have transferred, gutting the pro­gram to the point where Ayers was expected to keep several walk-ons from an open tryout of students. 
Like a celebrity campaigning for a candidate in an election year, Jackson defended Ayers and said his ex-coach had little to do with the Buckeyes' de­cline. 
"Coach Ayers is such a close friend of mine, going back to my high school days and through college. I hate to see the things that not only he ­but the program is -going through some unfortunate in­cidents," Jackson said. "He's taking the blame for everything and I don't think that's right. But at the same time, they al­ways try to put it on somebody and he's the head man." 
Jackson admitted these are 
difficult days to be the most 
prominent alumnus of Ohio 
State basketball. 

By KEN RAPPOPORT 
Associated Press 
The only movement in the NHL labor situation these days seems to be players moving to Europe and Brian Burke mov­ing around North America. 
Boston Bruins forward Josef Stumpe! was the latest to find a job in Europe, returning to his old club in Germany, the Cologne Sharks. Stumpe! will play Friday in the Sharks' next league game, Cologne spokesman Miro Sykora said Wednesday. 
Stumpel's move was more than could be said of the stale­mated NHL labor situation, which continued to be at a standstill Wednesday. 
The lockout reached its 19th day, bringing to 105 the total of games postponed so far. The NHL hasn't officially canceled any games, but NHL spokesman Arthur Pincus said Wednesday "we'll have an announcement soon" on a policy regarding ticket refunds. 
Time appeared to be running out on the NHL's hopes of sal­vaging the entire 84-game schedule. NHL commissioner Gary Bettman said that no mat­ter how many games are lost, they will not be made up past June. In an interview in Wednesday's editions of the New York Times, Bettman said many of the league's older buildings could not produce ad­equate ice surfaces during the summer. 
He also told The Times that 
the league would need at least 
a 40-or 50-game schedule in 
order to have a legitimate sea­
son leading to the Stanley Cup. 
In order to play a 50-game 
schedule, the NHL would have 
to start by mid-December. A 
40-game schedule would mean 
starting around Jan. 1. 
Since the International Ice 
Hockey Federation (IIHF) re­
versed its ban on NHL players 
competing in Europe, several 
players have found work over­
seas. 
They include Jari Kurri of the 
Los Angeles Kings, Teemu 
Selanne of the Winnipeg Jets, 
Esa Tikkanen of the St. Louis 
Blues and Christian Ruuttu of 
the Chicago Blackhawks, who 
are all playing in the Finnish 
League. Toronto's Mats Sundin 
has also gone back to Sweden 
to play. 
Thursday night, Kurri and 
Selanne will be in the lineup 
when Jokerit faces IFK, another 
Helsinki team, with Tikkanen 
and Ruuttu. 
Other players exploring their 
options in Europe: Petr Nedved and Alexander Karpovstev of the New York Rangers, Peter Forsberg of Quebec, Mikko Makela of Boston and Jarkko ·Varvio of Dallas. Karpovstev has gon'e back to Russia, Forsberg to Sweden and Makela and Varvio to Finland. Nedved has put the Rangers on notice that he wants to play elsewhere, presumably the 
Czech Republic. 
Stumpe!, a 22-year-old native of Slovakia, was Cologne's lead­ing scorer in the 1991-92 sea­son. He signed with the Bruins, although his contract option with Cologne was valid until April 30, 1995. It is under this option that Cologne re-signed Stumpe! now, Sykora said. 
The NHL Players Association reiterated its support Wednesday for players to find work wherever they can at this point. 
"Our stance has been, we're supporting the players in what­ever they're choosing to do," said Steve MacAllister, public relations director for the NHLPA. 
MacAllister said players from some teams have been practic­ing in units on their own, in­cluding the Washington Capitals, Florida Panthers, Winnipeg Jets and Dallas Stars. 
Meanwhile, Burke continued on his tour of select NHL cities. Wednesday, the NHL's director of hockey operations was in Dallas to talk about the labor dispute that has so far silenced the season. 
The "lines of communica­tion," which were supposed to be open between Bettman and NHLPA executive Bob Goodenow have been quiet since the two spoke last Tuesday. That was when Bettman phoned Goodenow to tell him that the owners had rejected the players' latest con­tract proposal. 
• BASEBAll 
Oates takes Rangers' post
Sophomore Literary Festival Student Reading!!! 
Take this opportunity to read on the very stage where Allen Ginsberg, Margaret Atwood, Kurt Vonnegut, and Tennesse Williams have all once read! 

···············································: 
: *Sophomore Literary Festival is inviting students to. submit work : : (poetry and prose) for its 1st Annual Student Reading, to be held : • February 14, 1995. • 
: *All submitting writers are required to attend an oral ~udition on . : • Thursday, N<W. 10. Writers must read a ~hort (5-1~ mmute) selection • : and submit a written copy of that selection to the JUdges as well. : 
: * Time and place of audition will be announced after break, so be • 
• attentive to future ads and signs! (For more info, call Kate at #4828.) : 

~~asYlif~t~
:............................................... 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants,Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets is now accepting applications for its next three entering classes. 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North
(April 1995, September 1995, january 1996) 
(219)277-1291
South Bend, IN 46637 
General requirements at time of entry include: 
• 
At least 2-3 years of undergraduate college in a health science or basic science degree program. (Inquire for a complete list of specific requirements.) 

• 
Aminimum G.P.A. of 2.5. (A more competitive G.P.A. is favored.) 

• 
Apersonal interest in a career as a primary care physician. 


Northwestern College of Chiropractic offers a rigorous four year professional education. Our focus on science, diagnosis, chiropractic methods, patient care and research provides our graduates with the tools they need to work as primary care physicians in the health care environment. NWCC is fully accredited by North Central Association of Colleges and Schools and the Council on Chiropractic Education. 

CaU: 1-800-888-4777 or 888-4777 
Write: Director ofAdmissions 
2501 West 84th Stree~ Minneapolis, MN 55431 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas 
Former Baltimore manager Johnny Oates was hired today to manage the Texas Rangers. 
Oates replaced Kevin Kennedy, who was fired by new general manager Doug Melvin last week and then beat out Oates for the Boston Red Sox manager's job. 
Melvin and Oates worked to­gether in the Orioles organiza­tion. 
"What this ballclub needed was a manager that had expe­rience and also had a winning percentage of managing in the big leagues. 
The man to my right here, Johnny Oates, brings both of those qualities to the ballclub," Melvin said at a news confer­ence. 
"It's a wonderful opportunity for my family and myself," Oates said. "I can't wait to get started." 
!HJ©fPJfPJJ! 2 v$~ fZ3orm!hJrdJ©)f 





Scottie 
You finally made it! 
Love, Mom&Dad Kristen, Kevin & Bernadette 
Thursday, October 20, 1994

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
• CoLLEGE FmrrBALL 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 

•••CONSIDERATIONS 
I::
I. 
I I I 
Unregistered Florida agent arrested, fined 

Associated Press grams have been besieged with problems.
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
On Tuesday, athletic director 

An unregistered sports agent Bob Goin was fired after the was arrested Wednesday for state Ethics Commission ruled trying to sign several Florida he illegally accepted a cut-rate State football players as clients, roof from a university contrac­campus police said. tor. 
Steve Endicott was charged The school suspended five with failing to register as a football players from its na­sports agent and appeared in tional championship team for court shortly after his arrest. several games this season as He was sentenced to one year's punishment for accepting cloth­probation and fined $3,000 for ing and other gifts from court and investigative costs, prospective agents. the university said. "With each arrest of agents, 
The Tallahassee state attor­we get closer to ending this ney's office, the Florida very disappointing chapter," Department of Business and said acting athletic director Professional Regulation and Wayne Hogan. "Let's hope that campus police spent months we will soon be able to put this investigating several people for entire matter behind us." trying to recruit Florida State Endicott came to Tallahassee players as clients without pre­in late 1993 and early 1994, viously obtaining the proper li­police said. According to wit­cense. nesses, he promoted himself as 
The school's athletic pro-an agent. 

Threats concern coaches' wives 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
A death threat against the wife of Kentucky football coach Bill Curry is only one indication of society's negative attitude toward college sports, other football coaches' wives said. 
In interviews published in Wednesday's editions of The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, wives of coaches across the Southeast said they are dis­gusted with reactions toward their husbands, especially on talk shows. 
"The callers on radio talk shows bother me," Carolyn Curry said. "They're not ac­countable to anyone in what they say." 
The Monday after Kentucky was beaten 41-14 by Auburn for its fourth straight loss, sec­retaries in the school's football offices found the death threat against Carolyn Curry when they checked answering ma­chine messages. 
Barbara Dooley, wife of 

Georgia athletic director Vince Dooley, has a similar dislike of radio shows. 
"The radio talk shows are brutal," she said. "I have lis­tened very rarely. That talk show in Atlanta is the meanest, ugliest, most insensitive group I've ever heard." 
Curry said she is angry be­cause she will never feel safe again. 
"I haven't been able to get it off my mind," she said. "I guess I'm going to be more reclusive. I love to walk three or four miles each day. I don't know if I'm going to be able to do that anymore." 
Some wives said they no longer sit in the stands because of negative comments they have heard about their husbands. 
"Clemson was a hard place for me," said Sandy Hatfield, wife of Ken Hatfield, a former Clemson coach and now coach at Rice. "It was difficult for me to hear bad things they said about Ken. They were unjusti­fied, negative, ugly, personal, vicious remarks. One time, I turned around to a guy .and said, 'You happen to be talking about the man I love.'" 
Curry also said she no longer feels comfortable in the stands. 
"I haven't sat in the stands since we left Georgia Tech (in 1986)," she said. "I sit in a box at home and I sit in the athletic director's box on the road. I didn't let the children sit out­side either (when they were young)." 
Stephanie Goff, wife of Georgia coach Ray Goff. said she still sits in the stands, but in a section with Georgia staffers. 
"I hear hard stuff sometimes when I go down to see Ray (after a game)," she said. "It's hard to hear but it comes with the territory." 
Such comments, she said, are "a sad commentary on our so­ciety.... People out there who get so wrapped up in football don't seem to realize that coaches and their wives are people, too.'' 
A SPIRITUAL STRESS-BUSTER 

Ifstress were a cardinal virtue, most of us would already be saints. Around mid-terms and finals we feel it, as we tend to become type-A personalities, surviving on adrenalin, caffeine, and about three hours ofsleep. Time is ofthe essence; it seems as if the clock's hands are spinning furiously. Our body, deprived of fitness, regular meals, and rest, cries out like Scotty on the U.S.S. Enterprise: "I can't give you any more, Captain!" Our mind, like a computer, is flooded with enough data to bring it to the point of overload. We are in the grips ofstress! 
It is time to learn to cope with stress. Stress needs to. be dealt with because it robs us of our most precious gift: now, this moment. God and life are only experienced now, not in the past or future. Stress distracts us from present reality-from ourselves, our friends, and especially from God. God and prayer take a back seat whenever we are stressed, and our spiritual life suffers. We become like people travelling on a bus through the most gorgeous 
countryside, but which no one sees.  The shades are drawn as the  
bus speeds along the country road.  
The solution: prayer! That's right.  Not television, not Sega, and  

certainly not more caffeine. All you need is a quiet space-your dorm chapel will do nicely-and ten to fifteen minutes ofprecious study time. Sitting in front of the Blessed Sacrament is the best. The following prayer exercises, borrowed from Sadhana: A Way to God, by Fr. Anthony De Mello, S.J., will help ease the stress that has you in its grip. You will be put back in touch with yourself, and most importantly, with God. 
Exercise One: Body Sensations 

Take a posture that is comfortable and restful. Close your eyes. Be aware ofcertain sensations in your body that you are feeling at this present moment, but ofwhich you are not explicitly aware. Be aware of the touch ofyour clothes on your shoulders. Become aware of the touch ofyour clothes on your back, or your back touching your chair. Be aware of the feel ofyour hands as they touch each other or rest on your lap. Now become conscious of your thighs or buttocks pressing against your chair. Now become explicitly aware ofyour sitting posture. Do it over and over, only spending a few seconds on each part. Do it for 5-l0 minutes, and you'll be amazed at how it relaxes you. 
Exercise Two: Breathing Sensations 
Do the above exercise for 5 minutes, then move to an awareness of your breathing. Become aware of the air as it comes in and goes out through your nostrils. Do not concentrate on the air as it enters your lungs, but lirriit awareness to the air as it passes through your nostrils. Do not control your breathing or attempt to deepen it. This is an awareness exercise, rather than a breathing exercise. Do not change your breathing; if it is shallow, let it be shallow. Each time you get distracted, return to the task of being aware ofyour breathing. Try to be aware of each breath. Continue this for 10 minutes or more. 
Believe it or not, not only are these two exercises great stress­busters, they are excellent forms of prayer. One cannot pray well unless the body and mind are still and aware. Y'ou will also learn to pray to God without words, which is the essence of contemplative prayer. You will feel more relaxed, more aware of yourself and God, and gain perspective on your work. 
May your break be stress-free, restful, and blessed! 
Fr. Pat Neary, CSC 

THIRTIETH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. Oct. 22  5:00 p.m.  Rev. Regis Duffy, O.F.M.  
Sun. Oct. 23 10:00 a.m.  Rev. Robert Moss, C.S.C  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C  


Scripture Readings for ThiS; Coming Sunday 
. n ~~ ~~m~nrm~. Jeremiah 31:7-9 
.. 


~lffi<dl IRlze~cdbl1I1l~ Hebrews 5:1-6 
frJ 'l)\ ~ffi)a:i:)l. > ·.. ,.. 
Mark 10:46-52
\~JJ\w~Jr~·~; HW: 
Hfi?~JD/iM<f1JUr ..:.. ~'.;.~:~·~ .... :,·. 

• Cm.LEGE BASKETBAll • Cou.EGE FooTBALL 
UNLV seeks cheaper Sooners in a sorry state 
By OWEN CANFIELD its own" and as a result always their harshest effect, Oklahoma Associated Press elicits strong emotions, Gibbs went 5-4-2. Morale problems
coach after buyout 
said. So the heat he endured surfaced in the form of a one­
By TIM DAHLBERG found. NORMAN, Okla. last week was to be expected. day team "walkout" in the Associated Press "We have been talking to 
What Oklahoma coach Gary But it also was strong enough week prior to the Nebraska other people," he said. "The 
Gibbs thought would be his best that the chairman of the game.LAS VEGAS basketball season has begun. team is playing like one of his school's board of regents issued Gibbs worked through that UNLV bid a $1.8 million There's not a lot of people 
worst. The low point came in a a three-page statement in sup­and last year the Sooners went farewell to Hollie Massimino on available. But we will find 38-point loss to Colorado last port of Gibbs. The coach has 9-3. The highlights were victo­Wednesday, then set about try­someone to put on the court." 
week, a game that has left done everything he has been ries over Texas A&M and 
ing to find a new basketball Whoever that is will fmd him­
Sooner fans seething and has asked to do since taking over in Texas. Oklahoma lost to coach who could come to work self coaching at a salary far 
cast doubt on Gibbs' job status. 1989, the statement said, and Colorado, Nebraska and Kansas quickly and for a lot less less than the nearly $900,000 
Before the season, Gibbs de­any evaluation of Gibbs will State. 
money. annual pact Massimino 
clared that this was only take place after the sea­The first half of this year'senjoyed. Oklahoma's most talented team son. season opener had Oklahoma With Massimino formally Massimino formally became 
since 1987. That squad went Gibbs did not help his cause fans happy -the Sooners took gone, UNLV officials turned the ex-coach of the Runnin' 
11-1 and played for the na­last week. The Sooners went on a 28-0 halftime lead on the with a new sense of urgency Rebels on Wednesday when the 
tional championship. Gibbs the road and got wiped out by road against Syracuse. But they toward hiring either Seattle University of Nevada Board of 
never meant to imply that this Colorado, 45-7, their worst wound up needing a last­SuperSonics assistant Tim Regents approved a buyout that 
year's team would do the same, since a 59-21 loss to Kansas minute field goal to win, and Grgurich or an interim coach to will cost the university 
only that from top to bottom, State in 1969. It was the fourth­since then have struggled. get the Runnin' Rebels through $375,000 a year for five years. 
the players were more talented worst in school history. Their other victories have the upcoming season. Massimino agreed to the buy­
than any time since then. "It was definitely embarrass­come against Iowa State and Grgurich told UNLV interim out last Friday, after first 
But after six games, ing," split end P.J. Mills said. Texas Tech. They got thumped president Kenny Guinn he proposing that the university 
Oklahoma is 3-3. Injuries have "We should never lose to any­by Texas A&M, 36-14, and now wanted the job, but a personal­pay him $5.6 million to leave. 
sidelined four starters for the body like that." have lost two in a row. 
ity conflict between the former "It is not an easy dollar season, but the Sooners also That left Gibbs 0-5-1 against Oklahoma enters Saturday's
assistant to Jerry Tarkanian amount to swallow," Guinn 
have played inconsistently, Colorado. He is 1-5 against road game against Kansas as a and athletic director Jim said. "But any settlement with­
committing turnovers and Texas and 1-4 against two-point underdog. Victories Weaver was the key stumbling out litigation is better than the 
penalties at a rate far higher Nebraska, making him a com­against Kansas used to seem block. best litigated settlement you 
than a year ago. bined 2-14-1 in three of the automatic, but the Jayhawks
"We do not have the chem­can get." 
Losses to Texas and Colorado biggest games on the schedule. beat Oklahoma two years ago. 
istry to make it a doable deal," 
in the past two weeks have kept During his fitst four years on The Sooners return home Oct. Guinn said. "We've been very Guinn said the new coach will 
the phone lines jammed at ra­the job, Gibbs could bring up 29 to play Kansas State. The close, but the chemistry has yet not earri more than $300,000 a 
dio talk shows, with most of the NCAA sanctions when critics Wildcats' victory last yearto work out." year, including money paid un­
callers wanting Gibbs to kindly howled. He inherited a team snapped a 22-game losingGuinn set a mid-afternoon der the university's shoe con­
move on. that had been placed on three streak to the Sooners, and no deadline on efforts to hire tract. 
"We're doing everything we years' probation and was trying one would be surprised if they Grgurich, but later extended it "I personally don't think they can to correct the situation and ·to overcome the black eye left make it two in a row this year. 
because Weaver was at a meet­(basketball coaches) deserve 
improve on the situation," by three crimes committed by For one thing, Kansas State is ing of the State Ethics the biggest and fanciest office 
Gibbs said. "We're working football players in early 1989. good. Also, homefield advan­Commission over his role in a at the university," Guinn said. 
very diligently." He finished his first season tage doesn't mean as much be­secret contract given "I don't think we should pay a 
The Texas loss stung with just 52 scholarship players cause not as many people are Massimino. coach $1 million, $800,000 or Oklahoma fans for several rea­on the travel roster, due to de­watching. Under Gibbs, there But, with five days of presea­even $500,000." 
sons. One, it marked five losses fections, injuries and those who has not been a sellout in son practice already lost, Guinn Grgurich reportedly had 
in the past six years to the were dropped from the team. 75,000-seat Memorial Stadium. said he wouldn't wait much agreed in principle to take the 
Longhorns, and each time The Sooners went 7-4 in 1989, And there are just 45,391 sea­longer and would hire an in­job, but Guinn said there were 
Oklahoma was favored. Two, 8-3 the next year, then went 9-son ticket holders this year,terim coach if necessary to run personal differences between Texas won with its second­3 with a bowl trip in 1991. about 18,000 fewer than there the team for the upcoming sea­Grgurich and Weaver that had string quarterback. In 1992, when the effects of were the year before Gibbs took son until a permanent coach is to be worked out. 
The Texas game "has a life of the scholarship sanctions had over. 

Antics cause crackdown 


The University of Notre Dame is pleased to announce the appointment of Professor John Borkowski as University Ombudsperson for Discriminatory 
Harassment. 
z 

If you are a victim
0 

of discriminatory harassment and 
"' 

t:l do not know
_a. 

where to turn, call the University
-A





"'"' 

lll:::t Ombudsperson 
io 
-.>m for Discriminatory Harassment at 
631-3909. 
By GREG SMITH Associated Press 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 
Ahh, remember the good old days when you could enjoy an occasional dead chicken? At the University of Iowa, they do. 
It looks like the fun is over, though. 
Security has been stepped up at Kinnick Stadium during foot­ball games, and the cheer­leaders have been moved away from the student section be­cause of debris raining down from the stands. And it's not just dead chickens, either. 
It's coins, marshmallows, bot­tles and eggs. 
In this case, however, we know which came first. It was the chicken. 
"Back in the old Fieldhouse 
MADELEVA 
Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff, CSC 
A Pictorial Biography by Maria Assunta W~rner, CSC 
Educator of Women 
Past President of Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 
Founder of the First School ofTheology for Women in the United States 
Nationally Kno\vn Poet and Author 
lOOt-pages, soft cover-$1U5 (lrodwl• $2.SIIf•JIO*r• arodluJiullillf.) 
Make cloec:b payable lo: 
Sisters of the Holy Cross Saint Mary's • Box n Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
they used to use a starter's gun at basketball games and you'd have this real loud 'Bang!"' re­called George Wine, Iowa's sports information director emeritus. 
"Every once in a while some smart-aleck student would bring a chicken and throw it from the upper deck. Time that baby just right, you know, about two seconds before the gun, and bang-splat! That chicken would land right on the floor. 
"That was a pretty funny deal back then." 
Iowa hasn't played in the Fieldhouse since 1983, but someone has carried the chick­en tradition at least once to the football stadium. 
No serious injuries have been reported, but Michele Anderson, Iowa's spirit coordi­nator, was grazed by a broken bottle last year. And she said she saw a man hit in the chest with a chicken. 
"I know it sounds funny, but it's not," she said. 
She has decided to move her cheerleaders away from their customary northwest corner of the stadium -away from fowl territory, so to speak. 
The school's Public Safety Department, worried that cheerleaders might be hit by something in mid-stunt and get seriously hurt, increased secu­rity during Iowa's homecoming game Oct. 8 to deter the bad eggs from throwing objects. 


~--------~---------~-­
....-----­
Page 14 
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 20, 1994 promptly fumbled, giving Grace in the fourth quarter when football team. We've got a lot
Grace 
the ball back. Dillon finishes Thompsen intercepted a Scott of big boys. We're solid. 
continued from page16 
score at 20-0. 
"The team was playing well," Captain Pat Cooke said. "Defensively they got the shutout they were going after, and offensively we moved the ball pretty well. We sputtered a couple times, but we did what we wanted to do in terms of passing the ball. We're fortu­nate to be blessed with some great athletes. It's a real plea­sure to coach these guys, and to be a part of the team." 
The Big Red had tough luck. Tailback Pete Meyer played a solid game and was a thorn in Grace's paw, but after Grace jumped to a quick lead. the Big Red found themselves playing catch-up, which nullified the ef­fective Meyer. 
Dillon tried to catch up by throwing more. Although quarterback Stefan Molina was able to complete some short passes, a Grace defender was always there to make the tackle leaving the Big Red with a neg­ligible gain. 
Dillon's biggest play came in the fourth quarter when Molina connected with fleet receiver Kenny Ellzy for thirty yards, putting the ball on the Grace 30. 
However, the Big Red 
at 631-4543 


kinko•s® 

the copycenter 
2202-C South Bend Ave. Greenwood Plaza 271·0398 
109 E. Jefferson Jefferson Centre 234-8709 
the season at 0-4. 
Grace's 2-2 record leaves them tied with Flanner for the fourth and final playoff spot in the Blue Division. However, their head-to-head loss to Flanner in week two of the sea­son leaves them out of the play­offs. 
Grace improved last year's winless season to a .500 record this year. That's something Cooke can't help being pleased with. 
''I'm certainly happy with our performance. There were a number of people who were part of this year's team who suffered through last year's 0-4 season, and I think it was good so far as they brought that per­spective of what it was like to lose week in and week out. And they sort of made up their mind midway through the sea­son that it was going to be a different type of season for them." 
It was definitely a different type of game against Dillon. 
"It was the first time we put it together on both sides of the ball. Offensively we scored the most we did in any game this year. Defensively, it was the first shutout we were able to collect. It was a great effort on both sides of the ball. It was nice to finally live up to the po­tential of our team." 
~ ~ 
1-z 
ii L '111 H s -J.. h661 5 ·.L'> 0 ~ 

continued from page 16 
point was blocked. So we've given up six points all year." 
Offensively, the Crime ran rampant, totaling over one hun­dred yards on the ground. They were led by tailback Mike Thompsen, Dettore, and Chris Monahan. However, the of­fense still stalled frequently. 
"We moved the ball well to­day," Dettore said. "We just beat ourselves. It'll come. We're doing what we want to, we're just beating ourselves. They're not stopping us. We're stopping ourselves." 
The Crime offense has failed to reach full-stride, in large part because Off-Campus has a difficult time scheduling prac­tices. That just makes the role of the defense all the more im­portant according to Downey. 
"Defensively, we almost ex­pect a big play like that each week. You can't expect an of­fense to work on all eleven cy­clinders if you don't practice. Defensively, we try to look for a big play like that." 
The Crime sealed the victory Lupo pass, and returned it to the Flanner 17 -yard line. 

Five plays later quarterback Chris Hammond snuck in from the one, giving Off-Campus a 14-0 lead. 
But Flanner isn't hanging their heads. 
"It was a tough game," Downey said. "They're a tough team. I'm sure they'll go far in the playoffs. They've got some speed and some hard hitters. They're not afraid to hit you. With the exception of that big play, it was a close game. You take away the big play. and it's 6-0." 
Flanner finishes the season a 2-2, tied with Grace for the fourth and final playoff slot in the Blue Division. However, they will enter the playoffs on the basis of their head-to-head victory over Grace in the sec­ond week of the season. 
Quarterback Scott Lupo was effective, but Off-Campus dom­inated the line of scrimmage and shut down the Flanner ground game. 
"We just dominated the line," Dettore said. "We're a strong People have trouble running the ball against us." 
Flanner only made it across midfield twice. The first time was aided when The Crime was sentenced to a cumulative 45 yards in penalties. 
The lack of practices isn't a great concern to Dettore when it comes to the playoffs. 
"We don't have organized practices as much as we like to. We have lot of guys that know football. A lot of times when you come from a dorm, you have a lot of guys that don't play football. The people that make the time commitment to come out to games are all good football players . We all know how to do it, it's just a matter of getting together. We're going to have a few practices before our next game." 
"I think we need to take one game at a time," Downey said. "It'd be nice to get a good or­ganized practice in before we have a playoff game. It's do or die in the playoffs. We can't af­ford to get complacent and come out there careless. One loss and it's over." 


TAKE A STUDY BREAK! 

~ ' I s graduates & 
, ' , 


undergraduates
I (,
I 



, UNITED(mJ 
~ ~ I In honor of National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness 
~ 

Week all graduate and undergraduate students are 
I 1 

invited to 
I 
~ 

' 
J 


I DANCE 
I ~ 
~ 

Thursday, October 20th 
I 1 

• I ~ 9 PM til Midnight 
I 


' LaFortune Ballroom 
~J 
' 

I Snacks, Beverages (mocktails-virgin Margarita's &Daiquiri's), D.J. 
I I 
' 

Sponsored by:
I 

(, Graduate Student Union, Undergraduate Student Government, Notre Dame Office of Alcohol and I Drug Education, Flipside, S.A.D.D. 



We deliver. 


At Kinko's, we'll pick up your originals and DELIVER finished projects to your office. Notre Dame's fall sports teams have DELIVERED an overall 44·14·2 record and three national rankings. 
STUDENT MEN'S BASJ<ETBALL SEASON TICJ<ET HOLDERS: 
If you have not yet turned in the coupon for a free Champion t-shirt on the first page of your student season ticket booklet, you can do so at The Varsity Shop on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The Varsity Shop's hours are Monday through Saturday, 11:30 a.m.-5:30p.m., and Sunday, 12:00 p.m.-5:00p.m. 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

~ 

I 1\-\~T 1 0\\)~~ \o\£l>,R I \.\81-RO At\'IT\o\I~G. 
S>Mrn\111¥; OOTS\OE. 

DILBERT 
V.kLL AovAL~'1, lr m.(,~T Loo~ A L 11'<L€.13E,-E.~ 
\F ~ov 1h,,,....,.E..'P 
''6oo1>(EAR" 
A,orJ(, \ii'£ s.ue. .. 
-,....-----~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Positive, for a 54 Where Holstein shutterbug cows originated
1 Snacks in Santa 31 Mugged a 56 Catch someRosalia snoozer rays6 Upright 33 Husky runners 57 Shaven, as a14Aiigned priest's head 
35 Gouda's cousin 

16 Elephantine 59 Fix, as17 Rainier locale 37 Berlin one boundaries18 Globe flattener, 38 One kind of 
in a way clutch 61 Rooming-house convenience
19lnterest rate: 41 Sarge, for one Abbr. 62 Fciul-ups
45 Playwright­20 Negotiates a lyricist Camden 63 Quiet firework puddle 
46 Buff 64 "Hero and 

22--Khan 
Leander"
48 Reuniongoer

23 Superman's episode
49 Harry Golden's 

mother 
"--in

25 Lake resort America"
26 Galway Bay DOWN
50 Watered silk 

isles 27 Accommodate 52--rug 1 Charteris 29 ---openers 53 Altiplano tuber detective 
Simon­2 Alligator pear 3 Old telephone 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

exchange 4Stop-dime 5 Slangy instants 6 Private eye 7 Kind of town 8 Think alike 9 Resins 
10 Actress Zadora 11 Least of the 
Great Lakes 12 Rallying cries 13 Not an easy 

boss B-7+.~--F.-fl!lll~=-r.:+.::-fi!!I!B~=+=-i 15 Blockhead 
enough 


IT W~ ~~l>r$ A ~\lM~. 'ri\1.1. 'fOJ 00 lClCK, 
~~\) ~I(E S\JRE ITS ~C)T AA~­THING SO.~'{;> 


AND l CAN TELECOMMUTE IF 1 WANT 1 BUT SINCE DRESS CODES DON'T APPLY 
TO f"'\E. 
BILL WATTERSON 
SCOTT ADAMS 

''6oo'D/E.AR'' 7 Wfl'"\ WouLiO> I WR•T€-THAT? T'N\ Nor T~E '6oa,'jE.A12.'' tk_,('r"'P ...  l<us" L•rY11lA"""  0~~~ (/JE.LL 1.\10-N, VJE. GorrP. YILL lW\T1\,,~c; l)P [!.hn< A. tAr tv\01'-E.. t\or  
A.•f2. ""' \  


26lt's south of the 40 Dutch coin so Fable's point Caucasus 42 Notarize 51 Tackles' 28 Lingerie item 43 The eldest Titan neighbors 30 Tree with edible 
44Most 54 "The Incredible Scroogelike " 
seeds 32 Apply makeup 

45 Fair 55 Hollow constructions 58 Time of yr. 
34Aunts and 

47--la-la 60-andaway
others 36111-fated bullfighter 36 Place for Get answers to any three clues 
brooding 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
39 1996 Olympics 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
site 



~ver Get APol Smashed! 
fRifNDS DDN'l lH fRifNDS DRIVf DRUNK 

.. 

~JP ~:a.TT> C:C»W:I::a.TGI­E:,.E::a.T=:&•!§; 
Brought to you by your friends at the Student Union Board: 
E31~'44ii!JU. OLIVER STONE 

Does the next Seinfeld go to Notre Dame?! Come find out at the first annual student comedy club. SEINFEST '94: Coming November 3rd. 


SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, October 20, 1994 
• MEN'S INTERHALL 

Off-Campus, Grace wins close season 
Crime defense stops Flanner 
BY NEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 
They're big. They're bad. They're mean. And they wear black. 
The Off-Campus Crime is Interhall's version of the Oakland Raiders. All they're missing is AI Davis. They're a crew of outcast misfits from "established" dormito­ries playing together to stick it to the rest of the league. 
They just may do it. Just ask play­off-bound Planner, who took a 14-0 beating last night. 
John Madden would have been proud of the way the 3-1 Crime beat Planner. It wasn't via a high-octane offense. It was because of rough, tough defender Jamey Downey and his defensive teammates. 
In a scoreless first quarter game, Downey scooped up a Planner fum­ble and chugged halfway across the field into the end zone like a run­away steam engine. 
"I just saw the ball, and it hopped up," Downey said. "I was on an out­side stunt, and the ball was there, and I grabbed it. All I saw was end zone, so I started running with it." 
Downey is part of a Crime defense that prefers to take a bite out of opposing offenses, yielding only six points in all of 1994. That statistic misconveys just how efficient the Crime's defense is. 
"The only points we gave up this year were on a fluke center to quar­terback exchange," Captain Dave Dettore said. "It wasn't as if they even caused a fumble. We fumbled the ball on our seven yard line, and one team scored. And the extra 
see 0-C I page 14 

Grace QB stars in 20-0 shut-out 
By NEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 
The next thing you know, Grace Hall's Mike Perez and Mike Dwyer might be featured on one of the NFL's corny "Teamwork" commer­cials. The quarterback-wide receiver combo passed right by Dillon's Big Red in a 20-0 Grace victory. 
Before this season, Grace had not won a game in three years. They fin­ish the 1994 Interhall season at .500. 
But the big win over Dillon came on the shoulders of Perez and Dwyer. The dynamic duo connected on two touchdown scores. 
"I just have a lot of confidence he'll go up and get the ball wherever I throw it." said Perez, who eclipsed the 200-yard mark. 
With the game scoreless in the first at their own forty, Perez hit Dwyer fifteen yards downfield on a curl pat­tern. The wily receiver then pro­ceeded to cut, slash, and burn his way into the end zone. After the con­version, it was an 8-0 Grace lead. 
Perez and Dwyer were at it again in the second quarter. Twice they connected on passes that were out of bounds in the back of the end zone. The third time was a charm, as they connected on an 8-yard slant, run­ning the lead to 14-0. 
"He puts it in a spot where I can get it every time." Dwyer said. 
During their hottest stretch, Perez was 7 for 10, passing for 121 yards and a touchdown. Five of those pass­es for 99 yards went to Dwyer. 
In the fourth, Grace added an insurance touchdown to leave the 
see GRACE I page 14 

Run, Pass, Tackle . Despite a 20-0 shut-out of D1llon last night, Grace's. playoff hop~s were sacked in a t1e breaker w1th Flanner, since the 'Cocks had beaten them in head-to-head competition earlier this season. 
Observer photos by Mich~~~~~~~~~~d~~~ 
INTERHALL PLAYOFF QUALIFIERS 
Men: 
Carroll, Fisher Zahm, Alumni Stanford, Keenan Flanner, Off-Campus 
Women: P.E., Lyons Pangborn, Lewis Off-Campus, Walsh B.P., Siegfried 


of note...
INTERHALL SOCCER 

Kansas City's Bob Hamelin was 
Michael Wigton scored the only goal in 

named the American League 
Zahm's 1-0 win over Morrissey to claim the 

Rookie of the Year. 
men's soccer interhall crown. 







