

By CHRIS HANIFIN NewsWrirer 
The Alpha company of the Navy ROTC attempted to show that the military can serve the country in ways other than combat, as the members of that company worked together to help clean up the South Bend Center for the Homeless last Saturday. 
Senior Frank Cantero, the executive officer of Alpha com­pany, was responsible for orga­nizing the day. 
"Navy ROTC feels that it needs to give something back to the community, and I think that you will find that same feeling in ROTC units across the coun­try," Cantero explained. 
"In the past, we have per­formed a number of tasks rang­ing from helping out with Christmas in April, to tutoring for the South Bend School Corporation. We feel that it is really valuable to give time, as opposed to money. In giving time, everyone benefits-both the Center and the company," said Cantero. 
Approximately seventy ROTC 

The Observer/Michael Hungeling 
Parties ·shut down 
By LIZ FORAN 
Assisram News Ediwr 
Several parties at Cavanaugh Hall were cleared by Notre Dame Security Friday night af­ter hall rector Father Merwin Thomas called security at 
10:59 p.m., according to Assistant Director of Security Chuck Hurley. 
"There were a number of parties and a large number of people. The hall was cleared of non-residents," Hurley said. 
"Everyone was cooperative," he said. 
Cavanaugh Hall was one of the few dorms on campus with­out weekend quiet hours due to MCAT's on Saturday. According to hall president John Bingham, there was "wall to wall people." 
"Every section had two or three parties," Bingham said. "It wasn't limited to the rooms; people were all over." He esti­mates about 700 or 800 people were in the dorm. 
"The purpose in calling secu­rity was to regain control be­fore things really got out of control," said Bingham. 
People were allowed back in at about 11:45, Bingham said, but they had to be either es­corted by a Cavanaugh resident or give the name of the resi­dent they were going to see. 
Names of all visitors were recorded at the door. Only 100 or 200 people were allowed back in, he said. 
According to Bingham, some minor damage occurred to the dorm as a result of the party. "A couple of ceiling panels were broken," he said. 
A couple of small bulletin boards with dorm room num­bers on them were taken from outside the rooms, allegedly by former Cavanaugh residents who are now living off-campus, according to Bingham. 
"Overall, any damage done was minimal," said Bingham. 
Cavanaugh residents had mixed feelings about the ac­tions taken by the rector to re­gain control. 
"I thought it was strange to clear out the entire dorm just to get everything under con­trol," said freshman Cavanaugh resident Duffy Dillon. ''I've never seen any­thing like it. I think it scared a lot of people." 
Junior Keith Twiggs was a host of one of the parties. "It was starting to get pretty big," he said. "We didn't know three-quarters of the people there." 
"The people we wanted there were allowed back in," he said. "It was handled pretty well on the part of those in charge." 
students took part in the cleanup project which went on for about four hours. 
Cantero explained that he had expected to be there longer, but that the day went by quickly with so many enthusias­tic volunteers. 
Sophomore Julie McCarthy was one of the participants in the cleanup. 
"We performed a number of tasks such as cleaning up the dining room and washing down the walls and baseboards," she said. 
McCarthy explained that 
By ROB PIECUCH News Writer 
In order to help the people of South Bend who reside in inad­equate housing, a Build-A-Thon was sponsored by the Notre Dame Chapter of Habitat for Humanity this Saturday. 
This event, held on the Cen­ter for Social Concerns lawn and conducted in accordance with the St. Joseph County Habitat, served two purposes, according to members of Habitat for Humanity. 
First and foremost, the Notre Dame members wanted to edu­cate the students, alumni, and the general public about the housing situation. or lack there­of in the South Bend area. The students hope to alleviate the poverty stricken areas and inadequate home sites and in return offer help to the needy and hard-working people. 
The Chapter's second goal 
these company service projects are typically performed every semester. 
McCarthy said that the pro­ject helped to brighten up what was otherwise a sad place. 
"When you walk in, you are hit with this wall of smoke. It seemed to be a really sad place at times," McCarthy explained. 
Junior John Duffy preferred to view the Center in another light. 
"I was initially surprised at how clean [the Center] was. While I was there, I learned that it has one of the highest 
Jammin' at the Naugh 
Build-A-Thon held to improve housing 
was to begin collecting dona­tions and raise enough money to build its own Habitat house for the South Bend community. Specifically, the Chapter set its target goal of raising $20,000 by this coming fall. Members have been collecting pledges and donations from the Notre Dame alumni and local corpo­rate businesses. 
On Saturday, students raised between $1,000-$1,500 in con­tributions. 
Not only have members col­lected these charitable contri­butions, but the Chapter is planning on matching the donations of the alumni and local businesses. 
According to Chapter mem­ber and Fund Raising Chair Tina Heckman, there will be no halt to the contribution efforts once the school year comes to a 
see HABITAT I page 4 
placement rates around at find­ing people employment. It felt good to help such a productive place," Duffy said. 
Duffy's responsibilities for the day included helping to clean the schoolroom, the GED room and the men's bunkroom. 
Cantero explained that the Center was chosen for this semester's service project because it has a history with Navy ROTC. 
"This was something that we had done before, and we felt that it was a big success the first few times," said Cantero. 
Live bands played this Saturday on North Quad and were part of the festivities of Naugh Fest. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, April 25, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
! 
~ 
t. 
' 
~ 
t--­
Photography: A sport unto 
•
Its own 
With the end of school------­drawing near, I feel like a player sitting in the locker room at the end of the season. For almost four months I must sit at home, and stare at other people's sports pictures until I get my chance again next year. I have to sit there and remem­ber what happened, and dream about what may happen next. As this year draws to a close, I'd like to retell some of the memories and experiences of this past year. 
In sports there's usually something or anoth­er flying around, often at a high rate of speed. I've had brushes with everything-soccer balls to lacrosse balls. Sometimes they miss, some­times I dodge them, and sometimes I get hit. 
During one hockey game, when the other team's defense was trying to clear the puck, one of the players "lifted" the puck up to head level, flying towards me. While I was para­lyzed by fear, Jamie Morshead plucked it right out of the air, in front of my disbelieving eyes. 
There is also the time when a VIC hockey player was put into the same box as I. For two minutes he kept up a constant stream of insults, obscenities, and family history about the referee. As this verbal Goliath stepped up to the penalty box's door, he smacked his hockey stick on my foot. Instantly the man became St. Francis, and extended the power play a couple of seconds apologizing. 
The equipment is not the only thing to be wary of. The players themselves can also prove to be a dangerous element, yet can earn you some recognition. Wired with adrenaline from a near miss by Lee Becton during the USC game, I slapped him on the shoulder as he jogged back onto the field. This happened to be picked up by a NBC cameraman, and has replaced the two point conversion play against Penn State as my father's favorite moment in Notre Dame football. 
Of course, all media are supposed to be cool and collected regardless of what's going on. For me this is very hard to pull off. After Kurowski had drained the three to tie the game against Louisville, I, to put it mildly, flipped out. Here it was, ten thousand people screaming all around me, players slapping high fives, and me -rolling on the ground laughing at the insanity of the moment while the remaining members of the media were wondering if they should call 911. 
One of the experiences of shooting many sports is that you realize the actual number of people walking around you that are involved. Of course, they don't all appear on NBC, or have their own trading cards, but nonetheless they still abound. I'll be sitting in the comput­er lab and, OH MY GOD! THERE'S EMILY HUSTEAD! Or Jamie Ung will be in the dining hall, or I'll see Holyn Lord at mass. 
I have always loved to shoot sports. With a 300mm lens you can be anything from a short­stop to a goalie for a day. You're right in the action, finding holes in the defense, seeing picks, and searching for the ball. You can see the anguish of injuries and the twitches of ner­vousness. You can hear the grating trash talk and the heaping self-criticism. You experience the rushes of victory and depths of defeat. 
For when game time comes I am no longer held back by my athletic limitations. I become a player in the game, in a different sort of competition. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Eric Ruethling Photographer 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Production  
Kate Crisham  Cheryl Moser  
Gwen Norgle  Whitney Sheets  
Sports  
Tim Sherman  Graphics  
Lab Tech  Brendan Regan  
Macy Hueckel  
T.J. Harris  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Farm workers demonstrate at California state Capitol 
SACRAMENTO 
Thousands of chantin United Farm Workers an supporters rallied Sunday at the state Capitol, demand­ing improved working con­ditions while denouncin Gov. Pete Wilson for his immigration policies. 
The demonstrators, along with an array of politicians and the UFW's leadership, gathered nearly 28 years to the day after a similar rally brought national a to the plight of California 
farm  laborers,  many  o  
them  Hispanic  migran  
workers.  

State police and union officials estimated the crowd at up to 14,000, although the actual number appeared to be about 5,000. 
The rally, which capped a 24-day, 345-mile trek and membership drive through the fertile Central Valley, also marked the one-year anniversary of the death of Cesar Chavez, the UFW's founder. Chavez died on April 23 last 
Cuba exiles meet with Castro 
HAVANA, Cuba 
Cuban exiles met late Sunday with President Fidel Castro, the man some had long tried to overthrow. The re­ception at the presidential palace capped a three-day conference aimed at improving hostile relations between an estimated 1 million exiles and the Cuban government. It was their first ~ 
meeting since 1978. About 225 exiles, ~h most from the United States, rode blue and white tour buses to the late-night reception, which was closed to the press. Earlier, Cuban officials offered to ease travel re­strictions and encouraged exiles to invest in the cash­strapped Communist island. But most exiles can't heed the call for investment -because they live in the United States, which bans dealings with Cuba. "They hope to pressure the United States to eliminate the embargo," said Raymundo Del Toro Arias, a New Jersey business­man who heads the Cuban-American Committee for Peace. 
Mandela discourages violence at rally 
DURBAN, South Africa 
Before a sea of black supporters, Nelson Mandela used his final campaign appearance Sunday to reassure whites and insist that a late surge of violence would not derail the election that is expected to catapult him to the presi­dency. The rally, which drew more than 100,000 people to a Durban sports stadium, began just hours after a car­bomb blast killed nine people and wounded about 100 near the African National Congress headquarters in Jo­hannesburg. "We're not going to be deterred from get­ting our freedom. Nothing they can do ... can stop us from making April 27 a historic day for South Africa," he said. The rally appeared to be the biggest of Mandela's electioneering roadshows, which began in January and took the ANC leader to virtually every corner of South Africa, from remote hamlets to cities such as Durban, southeast of Johannesburg. Mandela's main opponent, President F.W. de Klerk, closed his election campaign in Cape Town Saturday. And a late-starter, Zulu nationalist Mangosuthu Buthelezi, wound up with a rally Sunday in the ANC stronghold of Soweto. The ANC is a strong favorite to win the country's first all-race elections. 

NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, April 25.
Monday, Apri125 Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and h!gh temperatures Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 30s 
FRONTS: 
...a.....a.... 
............... ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather. Inc. 
Pressure 
H L m &'Sl [I] 0 . ~ ~ 1) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vta Associat9d Prsss 
Atlanta 81 52 Denver 78 51 Philadelphia 78 49 Baltimore 82 45 Los Angeles 65 53 Phoenix 76 61 Boston 78 48 Miami 81 67 Sr. Louis 86 55 Chicago 83 54 Minneapolis 69 59 San Fran cisco 59 50 Columbus 79 39 New Orleans 82 63 Sea!!le 60 46 Dallas 80 64 New York 80 49 Sibley 65 49 
Wilson spokesman Sean Walsh said the governor attended campaign events in Southern California on Sunday and was unavailable for commenton this issue. 
Membership in the UFW, the nation's first union of farm workers, once totaled 100,000, but has dwindled to about 20,000. 
Clinton attends church service 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton's troubles followed him to church Sunday. His preacher lamented foreign policy quandaries from the pulpit and protesters called for his impeach­ment from the curb outside. The president, sitting near the front with first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, nodded his head as the Rev. J. Philip Wogaman told the Foundry United Methodist Church congregation to keep Clinton in its prayers. "What are we to do in places like Bosnia, Rwanda, Burundi, Northern Ireland? In some of these situations; it seems like anything that is done will be the wrong thing," Wogaman said. ''I'm glad that I'm not the president of the United States," he said, breaking into a smile and drawing laughter from the congregation. The worshipers erupted in loud applause when Wogaman said, "The president of the United States is entitled to know the people of America are praying for him." Out­side, about 20 conservative protesters called for Clinton's impeachment. They recited a litany of accusations ­Whitewater, tax evasion, adultery and abortion. 
ABC founder donates to Harvard Med 
NEW YORK 
The man who founded ABC and his wife are donating $60 million to Harvard Medical School, The New York Times reported Monday. Leonard Goldenson, 88, and his wife, Isabelle, 81, sought help from Harvard doctors in the 1940s when their daughter, Genise, was found to have cerebral palsy. The gift is the largest in the school's 200-year history, the newspaper said. Dr. Daniel Taste­son, dean of the medical school, said the money would held fund research on neurological diseases including cerebral palsy. It will also be used to renovate a neuro­sciences building, which will be named after the Golden­sons, the newspaper said. Goldenson, a graduate of Har­vard College and Harvard Law School, took control of an eight-affiliate network in 1953 and turned it into a na­tional giant. After 34 years as ABC's chairman and chief executive, he supervised its sale to Capital Cities Commu­nications in 1986 and became chairman of the executive committee of Capital Cities-ABC. The couple also found­ed the United Cerebral Palsy Fund, which today has 275 clinics. About 500,000 Americans suffer from cerebral palsy, which damages the brain and impairs motor skills. 


Monday, April25, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page3 

Power MacinkJsb1!16100160 81250, Power MacinkJsb1!1 7100166 81250, internal App/eCIJI'I300i Plus CIJ.ROM Drive, Macintosh" internal AppleCIJI'I300i Plus CD-ROM Drive, Macintosh• Color Di.f{Jlay, Af1ile" ExJended IV!yboardDand111()USe. Color Di.f{Jlay, Af1ile" ExJended IV!yboard0and 111()USe. 
Speed. Power. And more speed. That's what the new Power Macintosh· is all about. Its a like statistical analysis, multimedia, 3-D modeling and much more. So, what are you Macintosh" with PowerPc· technology. Which makes it an waiting for? Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more in­
The new Power Macintosh from Apple.
incredibly fast personal computer. And the possibilities are formation and see for yourself. Now l ­endless. Because now you'll have the power you need for high-perfonnance applications that Power Macintosh is here, college may never be the same. 
App1eW. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 
Israel to cede lands 
By RON KAMPEAS moves other than the five-year Associated Press interim period of limited Pales­tinian self-rule in the Gaza JERUSALEM Strip and the West Bank town
Israel will have to dismantle of Jericho. 
Jewish settlements in the oc­cupied territories and give up "Our goal is to come to a sep­land in any permanent peace aration," said Agriculture Min­
arrangement with the Pales­
ister Yaacov Tsur, who is closetinians, the government said to Prime Minister Yitzhak Ra­Sunday. 
bin. "Good neighborliness comes from living next to eachUntil now, Israel has refused 
other, not on top of each 
to commit itself to future peace other." 
Fac___ty! 
Show her she's appreciated with flowers from 
· i Linda)s Flo11Jer Marketi I 
I 

Labs 01ay convert 
Pig Tostal broken up by police 
By LIZ FORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
A traditional An Tostal weekend party was broken up by South Bend Police Saturday afternoon after they received several calls from area resi­dents complaining about a live band and underage drinking at the location. 
"Pig Tostal" was the annual party held at 801 N. St. Louis Street, which is rented by Notre Dame seniors Morgan 
Dailey,  Jim  Doran,  Tom  
Byorick,  and junior Pr eston  
Martin.  

According to Lt. Ed Sum­mers, police were called to the location at about 4:30 p.m. Using a public address system, several hundred people were ordered to leave. No arrests were made. 
Twenty-six beer kegs, most of which were empty, were confiscated from the premises, according to Summers. 
A permit to barricade Kalo­rama St. for the block party was denied earlier this month by the Board of Public Works, police said. In the past, the residents have obtained the permit and held the party in the street. Instead, the yard of the house was blocked off and private security officers were employed. 
After the crowd had been dispersed, police discovered two squad cars at the scene had been vandalized. 
By ROBERT CAHILL 
News Writer 
University Computing is con­sidering converting the LaFor­tune computer lab to a DOS lab, according to Peggy Rowland, assistant director for Computer Cluster. 
This change would be made in response to a possible up­grade of the existing DOS ma­chines in the DeBartolo com­puter lab, she added. 
But the final decision regarding the possible conver­sions has not been made. 
"It is just one of several pro­posals that we are considering right now," said Rowland. 
"(The outcome of the LaFor­tune computer lab) will be set­tled within two weeks," she said. "It all depends upon what happens in Debartolo." 
If this happens, then the older DOS machines that are currently in Debartolo would be relocated to the DOS lab in Hayes-Healey and possibly the LaFortune computer lab. 
In response to what will be done with these Macs, Rowland said that they would most likely be recycled to other computer labs on cam­pus. 
"There may be some older models that would be available for students to purchase, but I doubt it," she said. 
Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson "Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist Let us send you to Europe! . *Airfares Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. Low airfares to Europe. 
*Rail Passes Rail Passes issued in our office! No service fee! Timetables, prices, tickets available! 
*Experience Over 20 years experience working with . Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students and faculty travelling to Europe. 
We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus ­(219)271-4880 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, April 25, 1994 
fered a life of poverty. This the "building blitz." 
hope will be accomplished Although the Notre Dame through a joint effort by both Chapter does not plan on continued from page 1 the Notre Dame and St. Joseph matching the efforts of the St. 
South African car Habitat 
County Chapters. Joseph County organization, close. The members will be However, the majority of this building just one home will 
bomb kills nine people 

By DONNA BRYSON Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 
A car bomb exploded in down­town Johannesburg Sunday, killing at least nine people, damaging the headquarters of the African National Congress, and terrorizing South Africans just two days before the first all-race election. 
No one claimed responsibility for the blast, which also wounded about 100 people. Suspicions fell on white extremists -the last, stubborn holdouts to the election that will usher in black-majority rule. 
Political leaders from several parties appealed for calm. 
"I don't want you to concen­trate on the violent action of those people who want to dis­rupt the process," ANC Presi­
He appealed to his supporters: "The IFP gains absolutely noth­ing from violence.... Let the election run its course and let it be free and fair." 
The attack did not bear hall­marks of militant black groups, who have tended to focus on white targets, either civilian or military. Most of the victims Sunday were black. White right-wingers are known to possess explosives and to be experts at using them. ' 
Agrippa Manyate, who lives next door to ANC national headquarters, said he doubted it would be safe for him to vote. Manyate returned home an hour after the blast to find sol­diers setting up a barbed-wire barricade down the middle of his street. 
working all summer in hopes of matching alumni and business donations. One of the main goals of the 1995 school year is an education out-reach pro­gram focused towards local high schools. Chapter mem­bers have been concentrating on a schedule that will allow Notre Dame students to travel to these local high schools in hopes of starting more fund raising efforts. 
According to Heckman, the Notre Dame Chapter wants to convey a message of hope to the homeless and the needy, hard-working who have suf-
American+ 
Red Cross 
effort will be done in part by the Notre Dame Organization. The Habitat members, after choosing a family and a home site, hope to construct a house in the year 1995. 
The St. Joseph County Habi­tat constructed seven homes last year in the South Bend area. 
The houses, built in a one­week span, were referred to as make next year's group the first to ever construct a home using Notre Dame funds. 
The Chapter will focus on this summer's fund raising en­deavor in hopes of attaining its ultimate goal of raising $20,000. 
According to Heckman, "we hope to raise enough funds in order to independently sponsor and work on our own house." 
• ~ ~ "£~"'\._,-Chinese-American 
~~ \.~I~ • n I Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge
\YALL Authentic Szechuan, Jo.!~ndarin,
and Hunan CuJstne 
· Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week 
Lunches starting at... ...................$4.25 
Dinners Starting at.. .....................$5.95 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 Voted nest Oriental 
Restaurant in 130 Dixie Way N, South Bend Michian,1 by Alic/rituw Now
(next to Randall's Inn) 
dent Nelson Mandela said at a huge rally in Durban that cul­minated his campaign for the nation's highest office. 
"We're going to deal with those people. We have made fantastic progress, despite criminals and murderers." 
The ANC was expected to win the election, the first in South African history to include the black majority. Right-wing ex­tremists opposed to black ma­jority rule have threatened drastic action before voting be­gins. 
The present white-led gov­ernment, expected to share power with the ANC in the next administration, said it was re­solved. to go ahead with the three days of voting, which be­gins Tuesday. 
"There is no possibility that radical minorities will be al­lowed to frustrate the will of the vast majority of the South African people," President F.W. de Klerk said in a statement. "All they will achieve will be to add to the unnecessary suffer­ing of innocent citizens who have already suffered enough." 
One of those killed was an ANC provincial legislature can­didate, Susan Keane, wh,o was driving into the ANC regional office for a meeting when the bomb went off. Other victims were pedestrians near the blast site. 
A spokesman for the militant right-wing Afrikaner Resistance Movement denied the group was involved. 
The blast, the biggest ever to hit Johannesburg, renewed fears of raging violence during the election -fears that had been quelled by the last-minute decision of the Zulu nationalist Inkatha Freedom Party to take part in the vote. Inkatha's deci­sion left only right-wing ex­tremists boycotting the ballot. 
Supporters of Inkatha and the ANC have fought in the black townships for years -three ANC election workers were killed Saturday and eight were missing after a shooting in Ulundi, ~he capital of the Zulu homeland. 
Three lnkatha supporters were killed after a campaign rally Sunday. 
Inkatha leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi, who agreed last week to end the party's boycott of the balloting, joined in con­demning the violence Sunday. 
New Summer Session Course Department of Theology 
Theology 290: Christianity and World Religions Professor Bradley Malkovsky Call# 0412 M-T-W-H-F, 9:10-10:10 
The purpose of this course is to introduce the student to the basic teachings and spiritualities of Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, and Islam. We will approach these religions both historically and theologically, seeking to determine where they converge and differ from Christianity on such perennial issues as death, meaning, the nature of the ultimate Mystery, the overcoming of suffering, etc. We will also examine some traditional and contemporary Catholic and Protestant approaches to religious pluralism. 

eAca 
We Need Your Help! 
Honor Code at Notre Dame works for the students, and the Honor Code Committee Which has served to write the Honor Code and educate the community on the Code needs your hel make it better suit our needs next year. If you are interested in helping in any of the following reas next year, please fill out the following application. 
•Freshmen 
Orientation Weekend 

•Liaison 
Between Faculty and Students 

•Liaison 
Between Departmental Honesty Committees and our Committee 

•Education 
of Code 

•Integration 
of Code 


University of Notre Dame Honor Code Committee 
Student Application 
Please return your completed application to Debra Heerensperger, Chairperson, 240 Farley Hall, 4-4033. 
y do you want to be on the Honor Code Committee; what do you feel you have to offer it? 

The Observer/ Cynthia Exconde 
A tree of hope 
McCandless Hall Council President Julie Steinke and Resident Director Shea Powell plant a tree in obser­vance of Earth Day. 
Norwest~ 
Unbelievable 
page 5 
Professors receive researc-h grants 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame received $2,238,753 in grants during March for the support of re­search and various programs. Research funds totaled $1,968,076, including: 
•$295,000 
from the National Science Foundation for research on particle production and detector development by Nripendra Biswas and Randal Ruchti, professors of physics. 

•$252,102 
from the National Institutes of Health for x-ray and chemical studies of metal­loporphyrins by W. Robert Scheidt, professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 

•$236,318 
from the National Institutes of Health for synthe­sis and study of siderophores, analogs and bioconjugates by 


Free Checking. 
Everyone~ GawkingAbout.lt. 
You can see it on their faces. People everywhere are amazed by our brand new Unbelievable Free Checking. After all, who'd believe no monthly service charges? Who'd believe no minimum balance? Who'd believe no per check charges plus a free first order of 200 checks? Well start believing. And only Norwest gives you 24-hour telephone banking, free access to Instant Cash machines in Indiana and Ohio. So stop by today and open your Norwest Unbelievable Free Checking account. Pretty soon you'll be gawking too. 

Marvin Miller, professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 
•$186,672 
from the National Institutes of Health for research by John Borkowski, McKenna family professor of psychology; Thomas Whitman, professor of psychology; and others on the precursors of retardation in children with teen mothers. 

•$104,000 
from the Amoco Chemical Research Center for research by Charles Kulpa, pro­fessor of biological sciences, on the biodegradation of methyl+ butyl ether. 

•$102,035 
from the National Institutes of Health for research by David Cole, associate profes­sor of psychology, on a compe­tency-based model of depres­sion. 

•$102,008 
from the U.S. Department of Energy for re­search by Stephen Silliman, as­sociate professor of civil engi­neering and geological sci­ences, on particle transport through heterogeneous porous media. 

•$97 
,484 from the U.S. Navy for research on reliable robust wideband array signal process­ing by Ruey-Wen Liu, Freimann professor of electrical engineer­ing, and Yih-Fang Huang, pro­fessor of electrical engineering. 

•$97
,357 from the National Institutes of Health for research by Michael C. Mossing, assis­tant professor of biological sci­ences, on the structure and function of Cro variants. 

•$90,933 
from the National Institutes of Health for research by Veronica Blasquez, Galla assistant professor of bio­chemistry, on the structure and function of chromatin in B-cell development. 

•$70,823 
from the National Science Foundation for atomic force microscopy and scanning tunneling microscopy studies of catalysts by Eduardo Wolf, pro­fessor of chemical engineering. 

•$70,000 
from the National Science Foundation for studies on integrated process monitor­ing and control by Jeffrey Kantor, professor of chemica! engineering. 

•$67,000 
from the National Aerospace and Space Administration Goddard Space Flight Center for research by Daniel Costello, professor of electrical engineering, on band­width efficient coding and coded modulation techniques. 

•$42,477 
from the National Science Foundation for research by Maureen T. Halli­nan, White professor of arts and letters in sociology, on tracking effects on mathematics achievement and attainment. 

•$39,431 
from the U.S. Navy for research by Peter Bauer, assistant professor of electrical engineering, on high speed delta-operator discrete time systems. 

• 
$31,900 from American Biological Sciences Inc. for research by Francis Castellino, dean of science and Kleider-er­Pezold professor of chemistry and biochemistry, on a diag­nostic method or kit to detect Alzheimer's disease. 

•$31,350 
from the U.S. Department of Agriculture for research by Alan Johnson, pro­fessor of biological sciences, on plasminogen activators and steroidogenesis during growth. 


page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, April 25, 1994 
Town IDourns Nixon 
By MICHAEL FLEEMAN 
Associated Press 
YORBA LINDA, Calif. 
Down the street from the Richard Nixon Library & Birth­place, pastor Todd Ehrenberg led his congregation at United Methodist Church on Sunday in a prayer for the Nixon family. 
Elsewhere in this quiet suburb, resi-Richard Nixon dents pre­pared for an influx of digni­taries, mourners and news media from around the world for the funeral Wednesday of their native son Richard Nixon. 

Surrounding streets will be closed, police will work over­time, stores will shut and resi­dents will stay home as thou­sands attend the public viewing of Nixon's closed casket and in­vitation-only funeral. The for­mer president will be buried on the grounds of the library alongside his wife Pat, who died last year. 
"I think the city is going to stand still for two days," Mayor Barbara Kiley said Sunday. "It's just going to be locked down." 
But residents said the disrup­tion was worth it. 
"I hope it gives us attention," said Gladys Wolsborn, who was walking alongside an eques­trian trail near the library with her husband Phil. "People keep asking us where Yorba Linda is." 
Yorba Linda, a town of 56,000 about 35 miles southeast of Los Angeles, will get that attention. President Clinton and the four former U.S. presidents will be 
here, as will many foreign dig­nitaries. TV news producers expect to park at least 50 satel­lite trucks near the library. Photographers will set up dark­rooms in trailers, and at least one giant tent will be erected for reporters to file their sto­ries. 
Nixon, who died in New York on Friday of complications from a stroke, was born Jan. 9, 1913, in a frame house his fa­ther, Frank, built from a kit on a 9-acre citrus ranch alongside Yorba Linda Boulevard. 
The family struggled to make lemon trees grow in the poor soil and sold the farm at a loss in 1922, moving to nearby Whittier. There, they operated a grocery store and gas station. Nixon graduated from Whittier College, getting a scholarship to Duke University law school partly on the recommendation of then-college president Wal­ter F. Dexter. 
"I believe he will become one of America's important, if not great, leaders," Dexter wrote. 
r--------------------------------------------------,
CLIP THIS An AND SAVE 
$2.00 PER BOX! 
(LOWEST RATES IN TOWN WITH THIS AD) 
•Computers 
•TV/Stereo 

•
Books • Whatever! 


I I I I I 
I I 
I B~~ESPLUS
I I I I I 
I I 5622 Grape Road 914 Erskine Plaza I I Mishawaka South Bend 
I 
I I 277-5555 291-2000 
L--------------------------------------------------~ 
Salvadorans elect president 
ByJOSEPH FRAZIER 
Associated Press 
SAN SALVADOR 
Early voting was light Sunday as Salvadorans picked their first president since the coun­try's civil war ended in 1992. 
Archconservative Armando Calderon Sol, a two-time mayor of San Salvador, was the heavy favorite over Ruben Zamora, a former leader of the political wing of El Salvador's guerrilla movement. Zamora heads a coalition of three leftist parties, including the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front. 
The former guerrilla organiza­tion became a legal political party as a result of the 1992 peace treaty ending El Sal­vador's 12-year civil war. 
Seven presidential candidates ran in a March 20 election, but none won an absolute majority. Calderon Sol outpolled Zamora by about a 2-to-1 ratio in that election, but fell short of the 50 percent plus one vote needed to win. 
"I am worried that the polls are nearly empty," said Mario 
See! how she leans her cheek upon her hand: 0! That I were aglove upon that hand, That I might Touch that cheek... Shakespeare, 
from Romeo& 
110 Days... xo 
to be continued... 
Valiente, mayor-elect of San Salvador and a member of Calderon Sol's rightist National­ist Republican Alliance, or ARENA. 
"Many may not be voting be­cause they think that ARENA is going to win so why should they bother." 
In the first hours of voting, some voting centers had more poll-watchers than voters. 
Pickup trucks and microbuses draped with party flags cruised the streets to take voters to the polls. Vehicles covered with ARENA's red, white and blue bunting drove through the streets honking even as the polls opened, celebrating a hoped-for victory. 
The government also provided free bus transportation. 
Coalition members complained that ARENA poll watchers were improperly trying to influence voters, and there were mutual charges of campaigning at or near voting centers. 
Thousands of ARENA support­ers waited at the International Fairgrounds for Calderon Sol to vote, trading screamed insults with coalition backers until he arrived. Calderon Sol voted, then held up his ballot with an X over his party's symbol for all to see. 
Zamora voted earlier and less flamboyantly at the National Gymnasium. 
Voting places in El Salvador are assigned according to the first letter of the voter's last name, not residence, so many voters live miles from their polling places. 
In their campaigns, both can­didates stressed the past rather than the problems of EL Sal­vador's future.Calderon Sol attacked Zamora's leftist back­ground, while Zamora's coali­tion made frequent mention of the rightist death squads that killed tens of thousands of civil­ians in the 1980s. 

Secretary's Day is this Wednesday. 
DON'T FORGET YOUR SECRETARY! 
We deliver to Campus!
1404 N. Ironwood Dr. ~ South Bend, IN 46635 W' 288-3995 
Monday, April 25, 1994 
Chinese dissident freed 
By MIKE MOKRZYCKI 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Hou Xiaotian fought for five years to press China to free her ailing husband, Wang Juntao, a leader of the 1989 pro-democ­racy movement. She even was detained several times herself in China for her public cam­paign. 
On Sunday, Hou was feeling like a runner who had just won a marathon. Wang was finally released Saturday on medical parole by Chinese authorities in an apparent bid to maintain fa­vorable trade status with the United States. 
Wang was reunited with Hou, who moved to New York from China in September, at Kennedy International Airport on Saturday afternoon. Wang was staying with a friend at an undisclosed location in the city. 
"My husband looks very tired, very exhausted. It was a long trip," Hou said by tele­phone from her room at Inter­national House near Columbia University, where she is a visit­ing scholar studying human rights. 
Still, she said, Wang looks far better than he did the last time she saw him. In September, just before she left China, she sneaked into a military hospital in Beijing where Wang was be­ing treated. She said he was gaunt and his face had turned a dark color. 
Compared to then, she -said "he looks very, very good." 

STUDENTS! 
Shopping for a new car for after graduation? Then look at this! 
• 
Rates as low as 6.25% APR for a new car and 7.25% APR for a used car. 

• 
Up to 5 years to repay and deferred payments until September, 1994. 

• 
$100 CASH BONUS when your loan is disbursed. 


Students with good credit or no credit qualify, no co-signer needed. Bring your letter of employment. 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Independent of the University of Notre Dame 

Leaders optimistic about economy 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER can achieve faster growth this Associated Press year despite a recent rise in long-term interest rates. WASHINGTON In a chairman's statement 
Finance officials from the summarizing the discussions, world's seven richest industrial Treasury Secretary Lloyd countries expressed optimism Bentsen said his colleagues be­Sunday that the global economy lieved that a variety of signs 

ENGINEERING TALENT 
• 
Are you a high talent, high potential graduating engineer with the desire and ability to do more? 

• 
Are you an individual who demonstrates professional excellence and a successful achievement record? 

• 
Do you like a fast-paced, challenging environment, with high visibility and opportunity to make significant contributions? 


How does 17 consecutive years of 20% growth strike you? 
If so, tremendous opportunities exist for graduating engineers within the Instrument Division of Stryker Corporation, one of the fastest growing suppliers in the health care industry and noted by "Business Week" as one of the 20 most innovative companies in America. Our organization can offer outstanding opportunity and growth for talented individuals within our growing engineering departments. 
DESIGN ENGINEER 
The accomplished individual will be a results-oriented, self­starter with 0-3 years' experience. A Bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering is required. Exposure and interest in analog design, power supply design, microprocessors, and programming skills in C are desired. Understanding and experience with ORCAD and PCB layout are strong pluses. 
MANUFACTURING ENGINEER 
The successful candidate will have 0-3 years' experience and a Bachelor's degree in Industrial, Mechanical or Electrical Engineering. Top technical proficiency, problem solving approach, proven communication skills and the ability to work with and support manufacturing teams are key. 

Stryker offers an excellent compensation and benefits package. Positions are located in Michigan. Interested and qualified candidates should send resumes in confidence, indicating position of interest, to: Attn: Human Resources, 

Stryker Corporation, 4100 East Milham Ave., Kalamazoo, MI 49001. We offer a non-smoking environment. Stryker is an Equal Opportunity/Aflirmative Action Employer. 

The Reilly Center for Science, Technology, and Values of the University of Notre Dame 
is pleased to announce that the following students have been selected as 
in the 
Five Year Double Degree Program in Arts and Letters/Engineering 
Class of 1995 
Thomas .M. .Miller Timothy Van de Walle .Monica Wagner 
point to stronger growth with inflation remaining low. 
"Collectively, we are more en­couraged that we have been," Bentsen said. "And I must say I was pleased to hear the opti­mism around the table." 
British Chancellor of the Ex­chequer Kenneth Clarke, sum­marizing the five hours of dis­cussions, said, "We thought, on the whole, things were very much better than they were 12 months ago. We were quite op­timistic about the outlook." 
Clarke said he was encour­aged by comments from German officials that the reces­sion in that country has bot­tomed out. Canadian Finance Minister Paul Martin told reporters that all countries believed the economic funda­mentals are "very, very good" and should lead to strong glob­al growth. 
Bentsen said the seven nations -the United States, Japan, Germany, France, Britain, Canada and Italy -pledged to continue pursuing policies put in place last year but did not in­dicate that any nation was will­ing to come forward with any new commitments. 
The United States had been pushing Japan and Germany to do more to stimulate their do­mestic economies, given the unexpectedly deep recessions in both nations. 
However, Japanese and Ger­man officials have so far re­sisted doing more, arguing in­stead that they have done enough and doing more would risk reigniting inflationary pressures. 

Next to nture Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
2n·7946 
expires 6/31/94 
·~~''""""*~O"'III'Yy~CI(~ tt94ChugorW!'~lO 

pageS The Observer· YUGOSLAVIA NEWS Monday, April 25, 1994 
Serbs abandon 3 week Gorzade assault 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 
U.N. troops evacuated wound­ed civilians and fanned out across besieged Gorazde to enforce a truce Sunday. 
The United-Nations said Bosnian Serbs had met NATO's demand to pull back from the city. 
NATO issued an ultimatum Friday ordering Serbs to stop their assault on Gorazde im­mediately or face air attacks. The Serbs were given until early Sunday to withdraw their forces from the town, the cen­ter of a Muslim enclave in east­ern Bosnia. 
The top U.N. official for for­mer Yugoslavia, Yasushi Akashi, said in a statement af­ter the NATO deadline passed that the situation had not re­quired air strikes. 
On Saturday, the United Nations refused a NATO request for authorization to bomb in response to heavy Serb shelling. 
Despite the reported Serb withdrawal, two women were killed and 15 were wounded by Serb sniper fire Sunday, Bosnian government radio re­ported. 
There was also sporadic mor­tar fire and a Serb infantry attack. 
More than 700 people have been killed in the three-week Serb offensive. 
But U.N. officials said the sit­uation quieted as the day wore on. U.N. spokesman Maj. Eric Chaperon said Serbs were re­specting the terms of a cease­fire they had agreed to and were withdrawing 1. 9 miles (three kilometers) from Gorazde's center. 
"The U.N. peacekeeping units that have moved out in the three-kilometer area covered by the agreement have not found a Serb presence," he said, in a clear indication that the likelihood of NATO air strikes had faded. 
"The fact is that virtually all of the ultimatum has been complied with. They're trying to comply with it," Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Sunday on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley." 
While U.N. officials said the 
truce was generally holding, 
Bosnian Prime Minister Haris 
Silajdzic complained earlier in 
the day that "Gorazde is still a 
scene of fighting." 
He said the Serbs had "partly 

London  $275*  
Paris  $293*  
Frankfurt  $293*  
Rome  $355*  
Athens  $355•  

'f~,..""" Wlfl fran Chicago based on roond!rip Pll· ches(.lltllrJ:tioos •PP~r t.l<tS R rd irci\<Xd&nd fs(SM Sltljcato chorse· C.llo cther wcrldwidc dcsfu!tions. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311·951·0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels magazine 

strikes, which could put them in danger. 
U.N. helicopters evacuated wounded civilians from Gorazde, where the hospital was badly damaged in more than three weeks of relentless Serb pounding. 
By early Sunday evening, six helicopters had brought about 40 wounded, including several children, to the Zetra Stadium in Sarajevo. 
4Aid workers in Gorazde esti­mate that at least several hun­dred injured civilians require evacuation. 
U.N. officials strongly criti­cized a Serb requirement that the helicopters land at a check­point for inspection on trips to and from Gorazde. 
"There will be death," said Dr. Genevieve Begkoyian of the 
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees agency in Sarajevo. "If we wait and wait, people will be dying for lack of medical care.'
withdrawn, but not complete-calate fighting and wreck frag­Another 300 peacekeepers due Another U.N. aid spokesman,}y." ile negotiations. to arrive Sunday were held up Peter Kessler, said patients onU.N. officials often play down About 200 peacekeepers ar­at Sarajevo airport. The pres­one helicopter "were very, very truce violations to avoid having rived late Saturday in Gorazde ence of the peacekeepers also frightened about stopping on to call air strikes that could es-and fanned out across the city. diminishes the likelihood of air Bosnian Serb territory.'' 
Are you creative, hard working and looking for a challenge? If so, the 94-95 Dome has a job for you! 
Positions available for: 
Photographers Academics Editor Groups Editor Seniors Editor Sports Editor Student Life Editor General Staff 
Applications available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. 
Applications due Friday, April 29. 
Questions? Call Jim Korczak x1409 or Cara Dills x4135 
CAMPUSES 
Monday, April 25, 1994 page 9 
Hazing restricted at Vanderbilt Students arrested 
By ZOE MARIN failing to inform the fraternity quiz could be made up. Assistant Campuses Editor that they were under any type "I have written to three stu­of investigation. dents trying to dispel any ru­
for sale of fake I.D.s 
Earlier this month, Vanderbilt "It is an intimidating experi­mors that may be· going around fraternity Phi Kappa Psi was ence to be called into the about how the case was han­PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Six col­Washington were arrested. placed on probation for hazing dean's office as a freshman dled," Potter said. "None of the lege students and two juveniles Police said the operation was violations. The fraternity is while going through pledge students I have written to try have been charged with mak­set up like a regular business now challenging Dean of training," Potter said. "We told and clear up this matter have ing phony identification cards with computer equipment, a Residential and Judicial Affairs the students they would be dis­contacted me to make an ap­in a elaborate scheme that marketing strategy and an of­
K.C. Potter with charges that ciplined if they did not tell the pointment to come see me." police said was making $1,000 fice in a hotel room. the investigation was mishan­truth, but we tell that to every As part of the investigation, an hour. dled. witness that we talk to." Moody said Potter had set up Students at St. Joseph's Authorities raided rooms at 
The fraternity was found According to Moody, the Phi contacts with the pledges resi­University were paying $100 the hotel and St. Joseph's after guilty on five of seven hazing Psi pledges were taken against dent advisors and professors in apiece for fake New Jersey dri­receiving a tip from an angry violations and will be watched their will and forced to sit in a order to monitor the students' ver's licenses with birth dates parent. closely for the next two years, room during the interrogations behavior and academic per­of indicating the holders were An undercover trooper pos­said Potter. and were not allowed to talk to formance. of legal drinking age, which is ing as a college student pur­
In response to the probation, each other about what was Potter responded by stating 21 in Pennsylvania, state police chased a fake identification, the fraternity created a four­happening. he was looking for further evi­said. Trooper Robert Whitbeck said. 
point proposal to change the "They were not even allowed dence that the hazing was af­The entrepreneuers went so pledge situation. The proce­to leave the room or make out­fecting the pledges academic far as to provide free rides for Charged with forgery and dures for pledge education are side contact with anyone," said life and health. customers from St. Joseph's to manufacturing false identifica­also under reevaluation, Potter Moody in the letter. "They "Every time we conduct an the Adam's Mark Hotel, where tion were James Stansky of said. were not even allowed to go to investigation, people think we photos were taken and the Edgewater, N.J.; Michael 
Phi Psi president John Moody the rest-room without an escort are mistreating them, but we counterfeits produced, police Dershowitz of Washington; personally responded by writ­from the resident advisor staff." just want to get the best possi­said. Shevan Shahan of Silver ing a letter of accusations ad­Moody also mentioned that a ble information," said Potter. Spring, Md.; Eum Kim, address dressed to Potter to the campus student missed a quiz due to "The pledges have to realize Two St. Joseph's students unavailable, and Salvatore newspaper, The Vanderbilt the interrogation. Potter re­that they are not the subject of and four others from the Corollo and Carl Lynn, who list­Hustler. Moody accused Potter sponded that the student the investigation. It is the offi­University of Maryland at ed addresses on the St. of intimidating the pledges dur­missed the quiz voluntarily and cers we are investigation." College Park and George Joseph's campus. 
ing their interrogations and had informed Potter that the Washington University in 
Boston College drug violations increase 
By ZOE MARIN related offenses. One was sus-lowed to enter any resident marijuana, mushrooms, pipes Assistant Campuses Editor pended from the university for halls through his graduation in and bongs. 
one and a half years and dis-May, 1995. Morse said BCPD is "lead to 
Boston College Police have missed from the university The police were led to these believe" that these students found themselves busier with housing permanently for pos-arrests when they appre­were dealing drugs from thell: drug-related arrests this sessing drugs with the intent to hended who Morse thinks was room. Since the arrest, several semester than they have been distribute them. their supplier. Christopher other BC students have been in the past few years, accord­The student has also been Maloof, a former BC student, arrested for possession of ing to BCPD Chief Robert drugs Morse believes were
ordered to ••••••• was caught
Morse. Fourteen cases have enroll in a when police purchased in the same room. already been heard this semes­drug treat-were conduct-Morse said this was the first ter, excluding those awaiting ment pro-ing a stan-time in almost three years that for trial. gram in dard search BC has apprehended students 
"We've definitely seen an in­order to of his car for drugs other than mari­crease-over the last two return to prior to tow-juana, especially hallucino­years-of use," said Morse to the unive~:-ing it from gens. The Heights, the campus sity at the c amp us . Statistics show a general in­newspaper at Boston College. · end of the Police found crease in drug use, especially "We're looking for the suppli­suspension. two outstand-"1960s drugs," said Morse. er... I'm sure there's more Until the ing state Fall semester of 1992, six than one supplier." suspension police war-cases were heard by the 
Morse pinpointed the prob­is complete, rants for Administrative Hearing Board, lem to underclassmen, since the student M a I o o f ' s which increased to 18 in 1992 most of those arrested in the is banned arrest as well and later 27 in 1993. past few years have been un­from the B.C. campus. as large quantities of mari-Although the recent arrests derclassmen rather than up­The second male student, in juana, hashish and mush­may have little effect upon the perclassmen. Morse attributed connection with the first, was rooms, along with a scale and drug users and dealers on the the problem to more students also arrested and suspended other drug paraphernalia. BC campus, Morse feels that bringing the drugs and the for the remainder of the Maloof led BCPD and univer­one bust often helps lead drug habits from high school. semester. The student is sity housing officials to the police to a chain of related 
Just last week, two male stu­banned from university hous-room of the two other students busts as users, suppliers, and dents were arrested for drug ing for one year and not a!-where they found quantities of dealers are revealed. 
BRIEFS 
All of the students, ranging in age from 18 to 21, have been released on their own recog­nizance or $5,000 bond. 
The juveniles, ages 14 and 17, will face the same charges, Whitbeck said. He would not identify their hometowns. 
Six other students who were attempting to purchase the identification also were charged with summary offens­es, similar to getting a traffic ticket. 
"Bogus IDs are not unusual at that age group whether it's on college campuses or not," said Joseph Lunardi, director of ex­ternal affairs at St. Joseph's. 
He said the St. Joseph's stu­dents will face a university in­vestigation and possible disci­pline ranging from probation to expulsion from university hous­ing. 
A similar scheme was uncov­ered in 1992 at the Unviersity of Maryland with students us­ing computer, said Don Smith, a spokesman for that universi­ty's Police Department. 

r---------------~----~--------------~--~----------------------~--------------~------~--------------------~-----------~r~~~--~~-.~--~-.------~ 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................ :Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fty Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizaberh Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeirher institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent rhe opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Accent Editor, Pharo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns presem the views of £he aU[hors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu 
Will ND secularize and forfeit its Catholic character? 
CHARLES E. RICE '<> . RIGHT OR WRONG? 

One last word on Ex Corde  by Fr. James T. Burtchaell,  and the interests of students.  est among all major colleges  gibilities rise, so do the tuitions  
Ecclesiae, Pope John Paul's  C.S.C., in the April and May,  For the authority of the Church,  and universities." p.10.  at the "research" universities.  
Constitution on Catholic higher  1991, issues of First Things  Notre Dame has substituted  Interesting. Notre Dame took  The universities use federal  
education. President Edward  magazine. In what is probably  that of the secular educational  its small endowment as a point  loan programs as a lever to  
A. Malloy C.S.C., told the faculty  the most important article on  establishment. Universities  of pride because it was using  force graduate and law as well  
on March 30 that the American  Catholic higher education in the  seeking secular prestige  income to lessen the burden on  as students to borrow prohibi­ 
Bishop's committee to imple­ past twenty-five years, Fr.  emphasize graduate programs  students.  tive amounts to finance the pur­ 
ment Ex Corde had "aban­ Burtchaell traces the secular­ and research. And they tend to  By contrast, on March 24,  suit of a prestige that has little,  
doned" the Ordinances that the  ization of Vanderbilt, Harvard  want to be players on the  1994, Chief Investment Officer  if any, relation to the education  
committee had proposed. In  and other originally Protestant  national and international  Scott Malpass wrote in the  of those students, and with  
response to objections of the  universities and the process by  scenes.  Observer, "It is truly exciting  detriment to the career and  
Catholic Universities, the com­ which the Catholic Universities  At the 1993 mid-winter meet­ that we are on the verge of a  family options of the graduating  
mittee "tabled indefinitely" the  are moving toward the same  ing of the Notre Dame trustees  major milestone in the history  students. The old Notre Dame  
issue of the mandate which Ex  end. Fr. Burtchaell suggests,  at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in  of the Endowment, the $1 bil­ would not have played that  
Corde required theology profes­ without mentioning any institu­ Manalapan, Florida, Father  lion mark, which has placed us  game to the disadvantage of its  
sors to receive from the  tion by name, that "seculariza­ Malloy said, "If Notre Dame can  as the 16th largest university  students.  
Church. For the foreseeable  tion is rapidly bleaching the  become more of an actor in  endowment and one of the  Our leaders act in what they  
future, Ex Corde is dead.  Catholic character out of that  graduate education, I think we  fastest growing." But the  see as the best interest of Notre  
Ex Corde declares that "the  church's universities and col­ might have more of a role in  money is not discernibly used to  Dame. However, I hope that  
institutional fidelity of the uni­ leges, with all the elements we  influencing government and  reduce the tuition cost to the  they and other members of the  
versity to the Christian message  saw typified in the Vanderbilt  other national organizations."  students, whose welfare is  Notre Dame community will  
includes a recognition of and  story."  With reference to encouraging  emphasized in solicitations to  read the Burtchaell article. It  
adherence to the teaching  He sees the severance of the  faculty to apply for more  acquire more money. As the  shows that the root error of our  
authority of the Church in mat­ formal connection with the  research grants, he said, "We  endowment goes up, so do  policy, which operates to the  
ters of faith and morals." It  church as decisive: "The only  think we're capable of operat­ tuition and fees at multiples of  detriment of our students, is the  
conflicts with the 1967 Land  plausible way for a college or  ing in the same world as the  the inflation rate.  effort to be Catholic without the  
O'Lakes Declaration, in which  university to be significantly  lvys, Stanford, Vanderbilt,  In 1978, when Provost  Church.  
Notre Dame and other Catholic  Christian is for it to function as  Duke, Southern Cal, and  O'Meara took office, room,  
universities stated that "to per­ a congregation in active com­ Northwestern.'' Observer, Feb.  board and tuition for under­ "I firmly believe -that there is a  
form its teaching and research  munion within a church.... In  15, 1993.  grads totaled $5,180.  uniqueness about what Notre  
functions effectively. the  Christianity, communities that  In the old Notre Dame,  Observer, Aug. 30, 1978, p.1  Dame offers a young woman or  
Catholic university must have a  float free are not viable. There  undergraduate education was  For 1994-95, the figure will be  a young man, a uniqueness that  
true autonomy and academic  is neither faith nor ecumenism  valued on its own merits as a  $21,000. The University, said  in the end makes their sacri­ 
freedom in the face of authority  ungrounded on church." Notre  Catholic work and resources  Father Malloy, has made the  fices and those of their parents  
of whatever kind, lay or cleri­ Dame insists that it is Catholic,  were used primarily to keep it  increase of scholarship assis­ worth the investment in Our  
cal, external to the academic  yet its mind set is Protestant in  accessible to students. In 1950,  tance "the number one priority  Lady's University," said Father  
community itself." In 1968,  that it defines "Catholic"  Notre Dame Magazine stated  of our fund-raising efforts."  Malloy recently. Observer,  
Notre Dame and other universi­ according to its own lights  that, "Still, as always, Notre  Observer, April 7, 1994, p.l.  April 7, 1994, p.l. The ques­ 
ties changed to secular status.  rather than according to the  Dame refuses to turn down any  However, scholarships and  tion arises, however, as to  
The Bishop's Ordinances to  mind of the Church. The pre­ more worthy applicants than  other forms of the University  whether Notre Dame can right­ 
implement Ex Corde were  dictable result is the total secu­ necessary, even those in need  financial aid, apart from special  ly claim to be "Our Lady's  
vague and mandated practically  larization that overtook the for­ of financial assistance. This is  cases, generally click in only  University" as long as it rejects  
nothing. Yet the universities  merly Protestant universities.  one reason why Notre Dame,  after a student has taken the  any significant connection with  
rejected even that symbolic link  Perhaps some are uncon­ unlike many other universities,  maximum loans for which he is  the body of her Son, which is  
to the Church.  cerned about this trend  never has known wealth-or  eligible. Notre Dame and other  the Catholic Church.  
The demise of Ex Corde  because they have not consid­ even appreciable financial  universities have lobbied  
should prompt us to retrieve  ered that one result of secular­ reserve." Vol. 3, p.5.  Congress to increase the  Professor Rice is on the Law  
and reflect on "The Decline and  ization is the devaluation of  Notre Dame's endowment in  amount of loans for which stu­ School faculty. His column  
Fall of the Christian College,"  both undergraduate education  1949 was $4,077,587, "the low- dents are eligible. As those eli­ appears every other Monday.  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY  


APfqt.. 28: AU ACI?OS5 IJ/rfl3/?ICA, R&M/3MBe.R:
/A/&'IJL-IKE
6/RJ..&J AI?£88/N(j TAK£N 7DIAKJI<I<. JU&JT 8£?£AIE&
TO aJuaJM/3 
YOU'/<.&'3/.../M
M5. 5MI7Ht:R'5 
...ANPIF YOU &VEl< 
{)()135N'TMtAN
FIFTH-GRAV&
8ffCOM& A fAY(){ff 
YOU tAN1BUQi.1l3
aAS570...
A!<Tf5T,·YOUU-U98 
/:' AFULL.-BOPIW
A~CII.-.JU5T Ul<& I 
C C/6AR&TTE!
7HI'3/­
/ 
''patience is the key to par­adise." 
-Turkish Proverb 

Monday, April25, 1994 page 11
VIEWPOINT 
GARY CARUSO CAPITAL COMMENTS 
The joys of modern communication: Unreturned calls 
What do the newly-elected Student return my call thinking that I had some­on the advisory board for Adworks, cate some of his duties, I would volun­Body President David Hungeling, newly­thing Observer-related to discuss. understood that he was an advisor to teer to carry the flag onto the field at a named Observer Editor-in-Chief Jake Maybe I should have lived by the old the Observer, and would like to speak football game. Peters, and Observer faculty advisor Dr. adage, "Never assume because it makes with him. I gave my phone number and Spring in Washington is a happy, Roland Smith have in common? None of an 'a-' out of 'u' and 'me."' · thanked the woman. pleasant time with cherry blossoms and them had the courtesy to answer my I do have one bit of advice for Mr. warm, sunny days. I should not be phone call to each of them over two Should I have said that I was a mem­grouchy about this, but I am. I guess I weeks ago. ber of the Sorin Society? Maybe I expected more from all three of them. 
'Andy Rooney would have a 
assumed that he knew that I was an Maybe the secretary lost the note and 
If I have learned just one thing in field day with all of the alumnus. Should I have offered that he the voice mail messages were acciden­Washington, it is that a successful per­tricks that successful phone call call me collect? Maybe he was just busy tally erased. If that is the case I apolo­son is the one who always returns a this spring and will return my call in gize.
returnees use to actually, speak 
phone call. Andy Rooney would have a June when things slow down. field day with all of the. tricks that suc­with an undesirable.' My final call to President Hungeling In any case, I will attend an Adworks cessful phone call returnees use to actu­was probably my own fault. I joked on meeting this month where I could have ally speak with an undesirable. I called his voice mail message that I ran for invited these people to participate so all three during normal hours, but only Peters though. Don't let your title and SBP as a student and lost to a King and that we could have resolved a problem connected with one real person and two position at the Observer go to your head. his cat. I hoped that he had read my in a political, everyone-wins manner. voice mail messages. One year from now someone else will be article after his election in which I men­Maybe I can still call Andy Rooney and 
My call to Jake's voice mail was short Editor-in-Chief and you'll be seeking a tioned my experience. Then I stated my have his recorder do lunch with my and professional, "This is Gary Caruso career away from Catholic Disneyland. reason for calling, my concern about a recorder. in Washington DC. Would you please Hope that your phone calls are returned matter involving the Observer and call me at 202-544-3333. Thank you." by alumni and prospective employers. Adworks. I ended the call by asking Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, works 
I assumed that he actually knew that I My message to Dr. Smith was given to him for something I previously asked in Washingotn. D.C. as a desktop pub­occasionally contribute articles to the a woman who answered with, "Dr. him in that earlier article about losing lishing specialist for the U.S. Houseof Observer. I also assumed that he would Smith's office." I mentioned that I was the SBP race-if he was going to abdi-Representative. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Observer does not provide enough 
sports coverage beyond football 
Dear Editor: women's volleyball awards this year at the teams' 
I realize that The Observer has a limited staff. I banquets, just like others want to know that Cindy also realize that, like every newspaper, it is not Daws hurt her leg early in the semester and has always going to be able to cover every story every­not been able to practice. She is, after all, the co­day. However, as a student and loyal supporter of MVP of the soccer team and the most recognizable this school's sports teams, I think your coverage of player on a team that finished the season ranked Notre Dame sports in recent months has been third in the country. If the same thing happens to woefully inadequate. Lee Becton next fall, am I going to have to rely on 
Over Easter Break, for example, I had the privi­word-of-mouth to find out about it? These are sto­lege of watching the women's volleyball team play ries that more than a few, isolated students care in a one day, six team round-robin tournament in about and The Observer should be embarrassed the JACC. Even without their three seniors, they that it disregards them so blatantly. maintained their recent tradition of excellence and Again, I love football and I will never tire of won all five matches without so much as losing a learning or hearing about the team, but there game. Needless to say, I was a little surprised must be some way for The Observer to cover the when this impressive win was not even hinted at other sports during their off-seasons. The mem­the following week. bers of these teams practice just as hard, give up 
Unfortunately, The Observer seems to believe just as many breaks, play more often, sometimes the same thing about other sports as well. The travel BOTH semesters, and make me just as women's basketball team recently held its banquet proud to say I attend the school they play for. They and the year's awards were given out, but how are underappreciated enough already, and I know many people knew about it? Once again, The they don't need their own campus newspaper to Observer's lack of coverage was evident. continue ignoring them. 
Some of us would like to know who won the MICHAEL BYRNES men's and women's soccer awards, as well as the Junior 

Stepan responds to pollution charges at plant 
Dear Editor: 
I was surprised to read in The Observer, published on April 12, the accusations made­by Justin Del Vecchio against our company, the Stepan Company, and me regarding our plant in Matamoros, Mexico. 
I would like to quote from my letter to our Shareholders in our 1993 Annual Report deal­ing with Matamoros: 
"Many of you have read or seen on television some of the unfavorable publicity about our plant in Matamoros, Mexico, generated by a combination of irresponsible media, national labor organizations and politi­cians. Many of the charges were made in a well coordinat­ed and well financed effort by national labor organizations to defeat NAFTA. When the alle­gations first started about a year and a half ago, we decided to maintain a low profile, believing that if we simply went about our business, made responsible business decisions and operated our plants safely, the charges would fade away. 
Unfortunately, this was not the case. Therefore, I would like to point out some relevant information about our plant at Matamoros. 
First, Stepan purchased the Matamoros plant in late 1988 and immediately began a signif­icant cleanup of the plant. Potentially harmful chemical wastes have been and are being shipped in drums to a licensed chemical landfill;, RIMSA, in Monterrey, Mexico. The cost of these shipments exceeds $500,000. To date, we have spent an additional S4.2 million in modernizing the plant, its equipment and grounds. 
We closed or shut down oper­ations we felt were unsafe, and instituted appropriate environ­mental protective measures where necessary. These mea­sures included installing state­of~the-art air scrubbing systems on our process equipment and building a wastewater treat­ment plant that was connected to the city of Matamoros munic­ipal sewage system in November 1990. Since that time, all plant effluent has been treated and has gone to the municipal sewer. 
Prior to November 1990, all effluent was treated in an aera­tion facility approved by SEDESOL .the Mexican equiva­lent of the United States Environmental Protection Agency. 
Second, Stepan has made and will continue to make every effort to ensure that the Matamoros plant operates at the same standard as all our plants. We are proud of how we operate our plants and of our relationships within the com­munities in which we operate. In this spirit, as in all our other plants, we sponsored an Open House at Matamoros on Saturday, April 3, 1993. More than 750 employees, neighbors, local politicians, and the media attended the event. All the attendees were impressed with 
the plant tours and presenta­tions made by the operators explaining their operational areas. 
Third, our plant received a thorough inspection by SEDES­OL in November of last year and no citation or critical com­ments were issued. The plant is not a threat to the health of our employees or our neighbors." 
Justin Del Vecchio also very carefully extracted from Mr. Riley's letter to the Coalitionfor Justice in the Maquiladoras to paint our Company in a poor light. The full letter is as fol­lows: 
Dear Sr. Mika: This is in response to your letter of May 19, 1993. 
As I am sure you are aware, Stepan Mexico has been named in a suit with a number of other Mexican and U.S. companies. In consideration of this, our legal counsel has advised that a cooperative effort with the Coalition on a plant site investi­gation and, if needed, remedia­tion would not be in the best interest of a proper legal defense. Stepan therefore no longer seeks an agreement which would involve the Coalition's environmental con­sultant to review the site inves­tigation at the Matamoros plant. 
Stepan Mexico has contract­ed for a plant site investigation with Rust Environmental and Infrastructure Inc. and the work will be completed by mid summer. Stepan Mexico also remains committed to effecting any required remediation at the Matamoros site. 
Very truly yours, 
C.P. Riley, Jr. Vice President Administration and Regulatory Affairs 
I hope the above information is read by as many people as read the initial article and the dates in the letter to our Shareholders are very carefully compared to Justin Del Vecchio's charges. 
F. QUINN STEPAN Sr. Class of 1959 
ACCENT 
page 12 Monday, April 25, 1994 
More than words 
Dancing to the beat of a story 
By KARA MASUCCI 
Accent Writer 
B
ackstage, dancers paced aim­lessly, waiting until it was time. The lights were low, the audito­rium was packed, any minute the music would start and the dancers would be given their cues. The choreographers nervously waited for the same moment. Would the dancers remember the steps? Would the lighting and music work right? Meanwhile, the audience relaxed, eager to enjoy the performance. 
The program entitled, "Mostly Modern Dance at Saint Mary's," was not just a performance but also an experience ­giving aspiring student dancers and choreographers an opportunity to exhib­it their talent. Molly LaJoie, Kathleen Foley, and Kjirsten Hanson were given the chance to apply what they have learned in dance and theater classes by working as student choreographers. 
The performance also reflected the talent and creativity of Saint Mary's pro­fessor Indi Dieckgrafe, and guest artist Paula Frasz, who worked with Lajoie, Foley, and Hanson to choreograph the show. Under Dieckgrafe and Frasz's direction, the performance presented by Saint Mary's College was a striking cul­mination of mauy different dancing styles and techniques. 
Frasz, through her cultured dance experience, brought an especially unique perspective to the dance show. Frasz is a professor of dance at Northern Illinois University, and has been a featured dancer with the Mordine and Company Dance Theatre. She was recently named Outstanding Choreographer at the Midwest American College Dance Festival. 
Although each individual dance was performed on the same stage, in the same night, each one was distinctly different. According to Dieckgrafe, "This dance concert is a collection of choreo­graphic works, each piece, its own inde­

aPhoto courtesy of Saint Mary's Office of Special Events 
Paula Frasz, guest artist from Northern Illinois University, brings her avant garde talent to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 
pendent entity. Like paintings, the works should be individually consid­ered." 
One such work entitled, "Of Mercy," told the story of Holy Cross nuns who served as nurses during the Civil War. This piece, choreographed by Dieckgrafe, struck a chord in the hearts of those who performed it. 
"Of Mercy" challenged the dancers and choreographers to reach new levels. Professor Dieckgrafe insisted that the students study the history of the piece and take on the roles of their assigned characters. " 'Of Mercy' was the most moving piece I was in. Indi researched the nuns to find out their names and personal stories. We are each one nun, so it's very moving to play an actual per­son," stated freshman dancer Natale Waitkus. 
Frasz, herself, individually choreo­graphed "Confused in Chicago," a dance with a Dear Abby motif. telling a story about finding love. However, Dieckgrafe and Frasz combined and exhibited their talents while dancing together in "Skin Deep." "Skin Deep," an emotional number, depicted two women struggling with eating disorders. 
The student choreographers expressed their own creative ability through their dance numbers: "Silent Cry,"· by LaJoie, and "Learning to Mingle," by Foley and Hanson. Because these numbers were personally created by students, they added a different per­spective to the show. Interestingly, pre­senting student pieces with professional pieces is a rarity. 
" 'Learning to Mingle' was about peo­ple who have their own way of living, which is in this case dancing, and how they learn from others. It was a funny piece, because it was not always easy to learn to live with others," stated Foley. 
Other numbers included "Tessitura," a modern piece that was based on the idea of weaving threads, "Great Galloping Gottschalk," a classic ballet piece and "Sea Songs," a dance in three parts that presented the aspects of life at sea. "Sea songs," one of the more moving pieces, depicted women who have lost their husbands at sea. 
LaJoie, Foley, and Hanson proved they were able to meet the challenge of choreographing. Waitkus says, "Normally, you do not see student pieces this well choreographed and so well presented." 
With all the talent. both on the side on the choreographers and the dancers, the performance became more than just a performance, it became a literary piece, telling a different story with each 
dance. 

One dancer's story 
By TANYA KRYWARUCZENKO 
Associate Accent Editor 
Wi
ile many were out njoying the weather his weekend, some were inside -many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dancers were dancing in a Saint Mary1s dance program entitled "Mostly Modern Dance." 
Notre Dame sophomore Susan Tate was one of these dancers, performing in two pieces. 

"I enjoyed my experiences in the show and it was really great to be on stage," Tate said. "There was a lot of comradery among the people involved in the show and I met a lot of won­derful dancers." 
"Each [piece in the show} was different and the music was great," she said. Tate per­formed in two dances in the show, "Great Galloping Gottschalk," and "Silent Cry." 
"Great Galloping Gottschalk" is a contemporary piano piece written by Gottschalk explained Tate. It is performed in three sections and at times is very dramatic, she said. 
"Silent Cry," choreographed by Notre Dame sophomore Molly LaJoie, was performed by three dancers and is about the sufferring children in Sarajevo. "This piece is a lyrically modern ballet piece and focuses on two suffering children and a lady who helps them," Tate said. 
Tate's experience with danc­ing has not been solely at Saint Mary's. Tate has studied ballet for approximately 12 years. "I like dancing because it's chal­lenging and very rewarding," she said. "It gives me a feeling of freedom and it's a good out­let for my emotions." 
"My dance experience has primarily been in ballet, but studying dance at Saint Mary's has given me more exposure to modern dance," Tate said. "Indi Dieckgrafe [associate pro­fessor of communication, dance and theater at Saint Mary's) has provided me with new experi­ences and new feelings for mod­ern dance." 
Recently, Tate has also partic­ipated with other students in modern dances at the Saint Mary's opening Sesquicentennial Mass. "Dancing at mass was a new experience for me," she said. "We performed at times in the mass including the opening and the offeratory," she explained. 
Among many other perfor­mances, Tate said her most memorable role was when she was a senior in high school. She danced as the Sugar Plum Fairy in "The Nutcracker," with a local ballet company in Pittsburgh. "It was a great ex­perience because 'The Nutcracker' is such a magical ballet," Tate said. 
Tate is currently a business major at Notre Dame. Although she does not plan to pursue a career in dancing, she wants to continue her dancing in the fu­
ture. 
Monday, April 25, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Inconsistent play leads to split weekend for Irish softball 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
Some games are better than others. 
In two double-headers this weekend, the Notre Dame soft­ball team alternated between sharp and lethargic in splitting with league rival Loyola and Indiana State. 
Against Loyola on Friday Terri Kobata no-hit the Ram­blers in the first game 1-0, but Irish errors marred game two as Loyola triumphed 6-2. Notre Dame maintains a one-game lead in the MCC standings with the split. 
Sunday Notre Dame started game one versus Indiana State with a bang, as freshman lead­ofT hitter Meghan Murray began the Irish half of the first with a home-run. But once again errors took their toll and gave the Sycamores a 4-3 victory. 
The Irish bats dominated the nightcap, banging out 14 hits, including Sara Hayes' 10th homer and Murray's second of the day, en route to a 7-3 vic­tory. 
"I think for the next few weeks we are really going to bear down on defense," coach Liz Miller said. "We made er­rors we don't normally make, didn't come up with some tough plays we are usually able to handle. I think we've been too focused on offense and we real­ly need to concentrate on defense." 
The fielding nightmares for the Irish began in the second game against Loyola, as three errors by first baseman Stephanie Pinter led to three unearned runs. 
"It really just wasn't Steph's day," Miller said. "But we know that is not the way Stephanie normally plays, it was just a shame for it to hap­pen." 
Freshman pitcher Joy Bat­tersby took the loss, but accord­ing to Miller was much stronger than in previous outings. 
"Joy's control was a lot better today," she said. "They got a few hits, but with a strong team like this that is to be expected." 
Errors continued to plague the Irish Sunday against Indi­ana State, and led to another loss for Battersby, taking her to 13-8. 
After Notre Dame took a 3-2 lead in the bottom of the fifth on a Pinter single, Indiana State tied the score on a double by left-fielder Lisa Hamilton. Then a grounder by first baseman Melissa Shyrock was misplayed by shortstop Christy Connoyer and by center-fielder Elizabeth Perkins which allowed pinch runner Cindy Weid to score the game-winning run. 
"We made errors on plays we normally make," Miller said. "They allowed unearned runs that cost us the game. That's very disappointing." 
Notre Dame's bats came alive in the second game, which al­lowed the Irish to overcome an unusually rocky outing by Ko­bata. 
The sophomore struck out 12, but allowed four hits and walked four. The three runs were not earned, but they broke up a shut-out streak that dated back to April 4 against Illinois-Chicago. 
"Terri had to throw a lot of pitches and was behind in the count a lot," Miller said. "It was not one of her sharper out­ings." 
Kobata admitted she was not at the top of her game, due mostly to nagging pain from the muscle pull she re-injured Wednesday against Northern Illinois. 
"I didn't feel very strong at all," Kobata said. "I know my leg is going to hurt when I'm out there until I am able to rest, so it's just a matter of trying to work through it." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character pet day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
$$ FOR BOOKS @ PANDORA'S everyday but sunday until 5:30pm 233-2342 NO ave & Howard 
Allention graduating seniors whose parent and grandparent are Notre Dame alums: The Notre Dame Publications office needs to take photos of multigenerational alum family members during Commencement weekend. The photos are to be used in an upcom­ing University publication. Please call Marilyn or Paul at 631-5337. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST-my precious gold loop ear­ring somewhere between Lewis & Cushing, or Cushing & 02, or 02 & Lewis on Sat nile (4/16). SENTI­MENTAL VALUE--PLEASE RETURN ASAP. x3766. --thanks 
CASH REWARD! 
'92 alum looking to recover "lost" 
cellular phone missing from car 
parked behind Grace Hall late Sat. 
night. Call 291-301 8 ask for Roy 
LOST: 
Green Columbia Jacket (outer shell) prob in SOH. Please help! call Brian at x1130 
LOST!! 
Gold chain with celtic cross by 
Stepan Courts week of 4/11. Call 
Rob at4-2159. 
GE stereo found. Call273-1932 
Did you accidentally take a 
maroon-red Eddie Bauer Windfoil 
jacket on Thursday night between 
12 and 1 :30 am? If so, please 
return it to me. 
Please call Mike at 4-1139. 
No questions asked. 
Lost: 
Watch. 
Brown corded leather band. 
Compass housing. 
If found call 4-3233 and ask for 
Dav. 
LOST -Gold rose brooch on 4/15 in or outside of Sacred Heart Church. Sentimental value. REWARD! Call 1-6411. 
LOST: LADY'S BLACK LEATHER 
PURSE WITH GOLD TRIM ON 
SATURDAY NIGHT AT WASHING­
TON HALL. 
REWARD. 
CALL 631-6557. 
Lost-Tl81 Calculator 
Lost in Fitzpatrick on Monday 
night. If found , please call 
Vince at x1871. Reward. 
Lost-Tl81 Calculator on Monday 
night in Fitzpatrick. If found, please 
call Vince at x1871 
WANTED 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Earn up to $8,000+ in two months. Room & Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary! Call (206)545-4155 ext A5584 CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up to $2000+/mo. on cruise ships or land-tour companies. World travel. Summer & full-time employment available. No exp necessary. For info call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 
need graduation tickets bad call Harry 233-5130 
SUMMER/PERMANENT FULL TIME $300/WEEK. WORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL AND CON­
SUMER RIGHTS. WK HAS 
1:30-10:30 M-F. FOR INTERVIEW CALL 232-7905 
On and off campus newspaper car­riers, branch managers, sales per­sonnel needed for fall 94 semester. Contact City News Service Inc., 232-3205 or 288-9361 for informa­tion or application. 
Off-campus non-seniors! I'm in need of place for friends graduation weekend and will sublease. Does lease require you to pay entire month of May? If so, do you want to make some quick cash$? Call Chad 4X1595. 
The Center for Social Concerns seeks a graduate student to coordi­nate the Washington Seminar for the next academic year. Coordinator oversees a one-credit course centering on experiential learning in Washington D.C. over the tall and spring breaks. Teaching or related experience and familiarity with Washington pre­ferred. Contact Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293. 
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN­TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 extA29. 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­0219 
SUMMER NANNY for NO family on Chicago N. Shore. Live-in/out. End MAY-AUG. Exper w/ newborn &tod­dler a plus. lnclds NJ beach vaca­tion wllamily. call708-433-1628 
Living in MADISON this summer? 
Looking for roommate (s) to share 
sublet Cybelle X2949 
Looking for one or two roommates 
for fall semester. 
Call 288-5205 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, 
KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF 
CAMPUS. 272-0615 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153 
BULlA ROAD 3 BDRM. WALK TO CAMPUS. AVAIL NOW 272-6306 
1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. NEAR 
NO. STARTING AT $250. MO. 
GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 
COLLEGE PARK 
CONDOMINIUMS -1/4 mile from library -New appliances -2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms -Washer & Dryer units -Large closets -Covered parking -Security System -Large balconies ----1Units now available­
$660 per month ..... Going Quickly!! ••••••••CALL: 272-0691•••••••••• 
For Rent: ONE ROOMMATE off campus. Please don't make me live in my car. Call Chris 288-5282. 
Subleaser needed! Coli. Park Apt. available for sum­mer. $220/mo. Call 273-6117 
Are you staying for summer school? Do you need a place to live? We are subletting our 2 Bedroom gas apartment at indian Springs! II It is economical, and spacious!!! Call Robin (4-1337) or Jackie (4­1333) for more details! 
For Rent -Diamond Lake Duplex Available Sept.-May All new -furnished. June thru August weekly rental Must see-beautiful view. Call1-616-445-8492 on Sundays only. 21636 Howell Dr. Cassopolis, Ml 
2 BDRM. APT. NEAR NO. $430/mo. + UTIL. NICE QUIET AREA. TAKE OVER LEASE FROM 6/1/94. 273-6187 or 631-5445. 
Turtle Creek Townhouse available for summer. Call 273-5883 for more information. 
Looking for student tenants Near NO -clean, furnished apart­ment houses: 755 South Bend Ave (1 blk west of Notre Dame Ave) 1 bdrm-240, effeciency-215; 607 E. Corby (3 blocks west of Notre Dame Ave) 2bdrm $330, 1-bdrm $260; 519 E. Corby-2bdrm $280+heat drive by first, call for appointment, deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 
FOR SALE 
TWIN BED FOR SALE Call Tracy 273-6401 
FURNITURE FOR SALE ­CALL 273-6032. 
Furniture for sale: 2 Dressers in good condition. 
Call 288-5205 
Furniture for Sale couch, twin bed, dresser & more Free Summer Storage call4-4463 
Great Couch ill Low Price! Must Selll Best Offer! Navy Blue and Very Sleepable. Call x1143 
Three single lofts, gelling bunks so must sell. $40 apiece OBO. One year old, built by carpentar Dad!! call x1101 ask for Sean 
Need a reliable car? '85 black Chrysler Laser, A/C, AMIFM Casseffe, Runs Great. Price negotiable. Call Vic @ 273­6117 
FURNITURE Futon $125 Rocking Chair $25 Coffee Table $25. Desk w/ chair $65. Halogen Lamp $25 Exc. Cond. CALL: 273-5811 
MUST SALE i486DX2-33 MHz w/ 4MB/170MB MANY EXTRAS. EXC. COND. $1,100 O.B.O. CALL: 273-5811 
'86 HONDA CRX FOR SALE Graduating-Must selll 
• 
Great looking, blue, 2 door • 5-Spd, 90k miles, reliable 

• 
$3,500 or best offer Call Scoff 6343984 


10 SPEED BIKE.272-6306 
College Park Condos 2BR, 2 Bath, w/ appliances $59,900. Send info to 
P.O. Box 4075, South Bend, IN 46634 
1989 Ford Bronco II 4wd 5-speed. Remaining ESP warranty. Excell. cond. $6500 call Bryan-4-1890 
For Sale: U-shaped coach, tan chair, entertainment center, gas grill, oak table and chairs, cordless phone, lamp and more. Perfect for OC living. Call 273-6553. For Sale: brand new bed and oak desk. Call 273-3920 and ask for Keith. 
Airline tix Fe. AT from S Bend to All. $140. Good til Aug 94.271-7280. Lve msg. 
1991 lsuzu Trooper II (silver) 30K; 4WD; AMIFM-Cass.; A/C excellent condition!! MUSTSELLIII $9400 call232-4736 
'91 Red Mere Capri Convertible 34K, AM!FM Cassette, AC, Power Locks, $8500. Call233-5773. 
LOFT & FRIDGE FOR SALE!! CALL LIZ X1912 with b.o. 
87 Red Camara Lt, VB, loaded, 45k miles, 1 owner, immaculate. $6700. 684-0957 
DOUBLE LOFT $75 CALLx2485 
Must Sell Now !111!111 2 Cerwin-Vega 300 SE Speakers. $200 Firm Call Stan x-4075 
WATERBED FOR SALE Queen size for $125 Originally $250 small DESK also 
Dave 273-5850 
Help!!! Need extra graduation tix for family. Call Sean @273-3920. 
Wooden bedside cabinet with one drawer and shelf space for books. Excellent condition and perfect for either off-campus or in the dorm­Great size. Call 273-6548. 
TICKETS 
I need 2 graduation tickets. My grandparents are coming to NO from LA for the first time. Call Elisa at 272-8563. 
I need extra graduation tickets ­please call Brian at 4-4204 
Help! I need graduation tickets. 
Please call Tracy-2377 
Help! I need graduation tickets. 
Please call Mike-1651 
I need 2 grad. tickets. If you have 
extra please call -Anne x3358 
HELP!! I need extra grad. tix 
call PIER 273-4909 
I need graduation tickets ... 
please call Joe@ 237-0750 
we'll talk 
NO grad wants to see her l'il bro graduate but needs ticket! Call Jon@x3054to help! 
PERSONAL 
**********'***KATHARSIS************ 
APRIL 15&16 at CHEERS on 31 in 
Roseland. APRIL 29 at Midway 
Tavern (MARTHA'S). DON'T miss 
out. Fun starts at10.For more 
information on gigs and parties 
call237-9702. Ask for LENNY. 
***•*********KATHAASIS**********•* 
ADOPTION -Let us raise your baby as you would -with love, security and smiles. Please call Conni and Mark 1-800-392-0618 
St. Mary's freshman Meghan Conley has used 1 0 pints of 0+ blood in her stay at St. Joseph Hospital. Meghan is using all of this blood to help relieve severe anemia caused by complete loss of kidney function and an infection. 
The donation of blood to replace what has been used would be help­ful to the local blood bank. Call your health services for information on how to donate blood. 
FRIENDLY WASHINGTONIAN 
needs ride home after Senior 
Week. Will share expenses and 
driving. Call x4293 
DID YOU KNOW the last Observer is 4/27? It is not too early to place your farewell classifieds to seniors & your friends. You can type in your ad now until 4/26 between Bam to 3pm Man-Fri. There will also be a graduation Observer on 5/13. Deadline is 5/12. We are on the 3rd floor in LaFortune. 
SMEGMARIFFICIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIII!!II I! 
DEAR JEFF HAYNES-Please come home! I need you and I can't live without you! I love you always-M. 
P.S. I have been a VERY good girl! 
Top Ten from the Junior Formal: 
10. Something weird is going to happen tonight. 
9. East Trutle Creek, West Turtle Creek-where the hell is he? 
8. Anyone else need the car phone to call their date? 
7. The directions are really simple. 
6. "Ooh baby I love your way­"What was that? 
5. "How much will it cost? Just don't look, Kristina." 
4. We WILL get to that dance. 
3. What else could happen? 
2. Helium anyone? 
1. Hey, it's a generic! Tim, Tom, Ed, Eric...thanks for the memorable evening. May the crow­bars always be with you. Thanks again from Michelle, Elizabeth, Bryn, Kristina ... sorry it's so late. 
Congrats Hooiser & Doug­Love Siegfried Hoops 
Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
EUROPE ONLY $229, NY $79 AIRHITCH 1-800-326-2009 Call for program descriptions! 
•... yeah, that's how Houdini died. Some guy just came up and punched him in the stomach while he wasn't looking." 
I'm living in Chicago this summer and need an APARTMENT and ROOMMATES. If interested, call nm at 273-5963 
FREE FISHING VACATION 30-yr.-old quadriplegic looking for someone to accompany my parents & me to a nearby collage in Ml for all or part of July 9-23. Everything provided. Have 16' pontoon boat & looking for fishing companion. CAll 273-0842. 
DANCING AT LUGHNASA A RAISIN IN THE SUN BRIGHTON BEACH MEMOIRS ACTER's HAMLET THE ODD COUPLE WINGS MACBETH THE FRESHMEN FOUR JUNIOR ONE-ACTS TWELFTH NIGHT YOU CAN'T TAKE IT WITH YOU ACTING AND DIRECTING FINALS THE BALTIMORE WALTZ ... 
Though you would never guess from looking at the yearbook, the­atre exists on this campus. II will live in our memories. Keep the faith, comrades. 
COLLEGE STUDENTS 
SUMMER WORK Entry level position with an interna­tional corporation, Flexible sched­ule, Start PT or FT now or alter finals. Starting at $9.251 Call 287­0424 for more information. Taking applications on campus in LaFortune's Sorin Room (3rd floor), Tuesday 4/26 10am-2pm. 
TOP 5 QUOTES FROM SPORTS TRIP TO CHICAG0­
5. I know my musicals. 
4. There was a BAND at the last bar we went to? 
3. Who's gonna win, gonna win, gonna win? The IRISH LITHUANI­ANS I 
2. I LOVE my friends! 
1. Sometimes, the only things that are important are what you're drink­ing and what you're listening to. 
Jones in a league of his own 

By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Assistant Sporn Editor 
To most, he's an enigma. 
He arrives right before game time, and leaves immediately after the 21st point. His dress is unconventional: not the Air Jordans and mesh shorts fa­vored by most players, but a bandana and cut-off shirt. 
Even his teammates weren't sure what to expect. "I didn't really know him before the tournament," stated fellow NBT player Joe Haigh. "Once I did meet him, though, he was a re­ally nice guy and definitely fun to play with." 
However, despite the mystery that surrounds Bookstore MVP Eric Jones, one thing remains perfectly clear -he is the most dominant player Bookstore has seen in years. 
"He meant everything to us," stated Haigh. "We wouldn't have won it without him. He's the man." 
Jones' importance to NBT's championship quest was evi­denced by his numbers in the fmal game, as he dominated all aspects of the stat sheet -7 points, 9 rebounds, and 4 blocks. 

His numbers are even more impressive when one realizes that he put them up against the Headbanger front line of Oscar McBride and Brian Hamilton, two big men who had swal­lowed up all other competition. 
"In my two years here, he is the toughest inside player I've ever seen," said head commis­sioner Greg Bieg. "He's been to the finals four straight years." 
"I just try to use my body as much as possible," stated Jones. "My teammates got me the ball in great spots." 
Jones' game is in no way lim­ited to the paint though. He is one of the rare athletes that can bang with the big bodies or lead the fast break. 
"He's like a runaway train," Bieg said. "He takes off and is just gone." 
"He's  automatic,"  added  
Haigh.  "No one  could stop  
him."  

The versatility to Jones was exemplified in the waning mo­ments of the championship game, as he leaped into the passing lane to force a steal and then rambled the length of the court for a layup to take the momentum away from Headbangers. 
He then showed why his clutch play made him the most coveted player in the tourna­ment, as he nailed a jump hook over McBride and Hamilton for his team's 20th point. 
However, while his individual skills are impressive, Jones is clearly a team player. 
"I loved playing with my teammates," commented Jones. "I'm just glad they could expe­rience what I was able to last year." 
The possibility of a three-peat will have to be put on hold, though. "This is it," laughed Jones. 
And so the mystery remains. 
3rd Team All-Bookstore Matt Fitz Keith Ziolkowski 
Travis Smith Steve Clar 
Holmes 
Wo01en 
continued from page 20 
like that." 
The short game was heated, and plenty of words and shoves were exchanged among the four varsity players. 
"That's the way we play all the time," said Alexander. "It may look rough, but we're all competitive and want to win. That's why I think it was good that they called the draw. Since I couldn't play it wouldn't be as competitive." 
Alexander was named Ms. Bookstore, while Knapp and 
Monday, April 25, 1994 
JeffEnes Brian Ziolkowski Brian McCarthy Pat Keaney 
Leary were co-MVPs. Alexan­der's teammates Orlosky and freshman Kathryn "K.C." Goyer were named to the All­Tournament team, as were Irish coaches Sandy Botham and Karen Robinson of Anthony Travel and senior Jenny Reilly of final four team "Every Now and Then I Get a Little ... " 
Defending champion Anthony Travel was knocked off in the semi-finals by You Didn't Know About Us, 21-11. Anthony Travel was forced to play with­out last year's MVP Botham, and lacked the height to match­up with the inside game of Alexander, Goyer and Megan Heyward. 
You may even get paid for f e a dillg it.After all, this book from MasterCard~ offers lots of useful tips on finding a real job, and it's written for students by students. To order your copy for $9.95, call 1-800-JOB-8894. MasterCard. It's more than a credit card. It's smart money.~. Cl 1994 MastrrCard lnt~tronal buorporatrd  

Monday, April25, 1994 
Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
at halftime, Headbangers chipped away with the outside shooting of DeRoo Holmes and offensive rebounding of McBride and Hamilton to take an 18-17lead. 
"When we got down early, we didn't worry be­cause we knew it was a long game and we weren't going to be blownout," said Holmes, a member of Headbangers. "We had never been down that bad before, but we fought back." 
"It was a good all around game," he added. "You have to give it to them, but it could have gone either way, so it was good for the crowd." 
Another key for NBT was the defensive job of Haigh against Bobby Taylor. Taylor, Headbangers leading scorer throughout the tour­nament, ~nd first team All-Bookstore, had only three pomts as he became the focal point of NBT's defense. 
"Joe did a real good job on 'D'," said Fish. "Our goal was to contain him because he's tough to 

The Observer • SPORTS 
stop." 
"I tried to deny the ball whenever I could," added Haigh. "We wanted to run and jump to double team and make the other guys beat us." 
"Haigh stepped up big today in defensing Taylor," said head commissioner Greg Bieg. "But that's what Bookstore is all about. great players stepping up under pressure." 
The strategy to defense Taylor so tightly almost back fired as Holmes poured in 7 points and had numerous steals. Kenny Middleton also added 4 points for Headbangers to keep the game close. 
At the start of the second half, Headbangers switched from a man-to-man defense to an active 2-3 zone which collapsed inside on Jones. With McBride and Hamilton surrounding Jones, NBT had to rely on their outside shooting. 
"The zone shut us down for awhile," comment­ed Haigh. "We didn't panic and we stayed patient on offense." 
"The zone confused us, but we have a lot of smart players," said. Jones. "We moved the ball around really well." 
Winningham distributed the ball from the top of the key while setting up Fish and Haigh on the wings. Every now and then, the ball would go inside to Jones or Doug Scholer. However, NBT went cold from the field and Headbangers took an 18-17 lead. 
NBT bounced back with Jones scoring 2 inside buckets and making a steal on defense. Then at point game, 20-18, Holmes was called for a touch foul on Scholer. With a chance to clinch it Scholer's shot bounced off the front of the ri~ and Headbangers had another shot to tie. 
After a missed Headbangers shot, NBT came down and worked the ball do\vn in the corner to Fish, who spotted up and nailed a 15 footer for the championship. 
Other than the final bucket, Fish contributed 7 points and made two acrobatic reverse layups over outstretched hands. Haigh and Winnigham had 3 points apiece for NBT, while Sch<>ler scored one. Scholer played most of the game with a dislocated finger on his shooting hand, while holdingHamilton to only 2 points. 
"He's the unsung man," stated Haigh about Scholer. "He knew he wasn't going to get the shots, but he's so unselfish that he didn't mind." 
"We didn't panic when we got down and we were able to pull it off," concluded Haigh. 
"The final game was a great ending to a great tournament," said Bieg. "It's a testament of the effort put forth by my fellow commissioners and the great players who took part in Bookstore." 

Are You Thinking ofBuying a New Car?!! (Now that all the morning classes, term papers and all-nighters are finished!!) Well•.• Jordan Ford Makes It Easy For You. INTRODUCING RYAN ROBERTS Jordan's Notre Dame ext.625 1994FORD &MERCURY COLLEGE GRADUATE PURCHASE , r •.,;It PROGRAM IS400 CA.SH BA.CK OR SPECIA.L A..P.R.I CALL OR STOP IN FOR DETAILS -lED IJORDAN FORD I .t Comer of Jefferson and Cedar, Mishawaka . ··-----"~L--'­--~-'---LJ Campus Phone: (219) 277-6780(219) 259-1981• (219) 264-9926 EMAIL: Ryan.N.Roberts.8@nd.edu  
(!]I Interested in theI Debate Team? ~ Come to ourDemonstration Debate ~ and organizational meeting ~ ~ Tuesday, April26, 1994 ~ 7:00pm ~ Notre Dame Room of LaFortune ~ 2ndFloor 1!1  1!1 ~ I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1!1  

By TARA KRULL 
Spons Writer 
The Saint Mary's College ten­nis team extended its winning record to 12-4 on Saturday when it defeated both Wheaton College and Augustana College in a double-header at Wheaton. T.he Belles defeated both teams with a score of 7-2. According to senior co-captain Thayma Darby, everyone had great matches. 
"Everyone played their best," Darby said. "So many people have injuries or are sick, yet we still looked great." 
Coach Katie Cromer agreed noting that the Belles had a strong showing for both of their matches this weekend. 
"It was a good weekend for playing tennis," Cromer added. "We won both matches fairly easily." 
Because of all the injuries and illnesses, the Belles' line­up was changed around in order to compensate. This gave many freshmen the oppor­tunity to move up and play var­sity singels positions. 
"A lot of people who normally don't play singles at the varsity level had the opportunity to this weekend. Everybody who trav­eled was able to play." Cromer added. "This gave them some good experience for future matches and next season." 
Cromer also noted that both junior Nancy Waibel and fresh­man Kate Kovacik moved up to singles positions this weekend and played extremely well. The Belles had strong showings from number one singles play­er, senior Mary Cosgrove and number three singles player, junior Andrea Ayres as well. 
"Saturday was a very long day," junior Nancy Waibel said. "It was a big achievement for us to win both matches without any time off between them." 
"We've proven now that we have what it takes to win," Cosgrove said. "Were ready to end our season with another victory." 
VISION 2000 
Chicago freelance writer/NO grad needs to interview Darners using Vision 2000 Meditation Series for a national magazine article. 
Please contact: 
A.T. Palmer 873 Forest Hill Dr. 
Lake Forest, IL 60045 (708) 234-9223 
-
....------~-­
....-­
page 16 
-Young ready and enthused for future 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN "The Forty-Niners are a classy Spons Editor organization and I feel I can make a contribution." It was better that Bryant The situation is perfect for Young didn't come. Young to assume the spot next 
The former Irish captain and to last year's defensive rookie­three year starter on the de­of-the-year, Dana Stubblefield. fensive line has never been He will be asked to produce but considered flashy. So when he not be in the spotlight right decided to pass on the hoopla away. of the draft and New York for a "It got to the point in the quiet Sunday with his family in draft where we said, 'Here, this Chicago, it came as a surprise is an outstanding player that's to no one. still available. Let's take him'," 
"I didn't want to go through said San Francisco coach all that, plus you have to wear George Seifert. a suit," said Young, jokingly. Young is happy about a move 
At home in Chicago, he got to to the West Coast. He recently watch his family fret over visited former teammate Aaron where he would end up. Taylor in the Bay Area and 
"My family was a little edgy," liked what he saw. he said. "They wanted me to be "I definitely think I can get drafted and to know where I'm accustomed to the culture out going." there," he said. 
Young and his family thought You probably won't see he was headed to Seattle or Young down on the corners of Tampa Bay, but San Francisco Haight and Ashbury, but he will made the move to draft him. enjoy the change in climate. 
"Being at Notre Dame I have "It's a great place and a great high standards," said Young. team," he said. 
in California. &fhe one thing I wanted round pick. but holes in the Buffalo sec­and said he grew up a Bills fan. 21It's a was to go to an up-and-coming team ondary made the versatile safety a need dream come true. I've been following
Draft 
with a chance to win. Green Bay is cer­pick. the Bills for a long time." tainly that." The Bills have only three defensive Like Burris, Ruddy figures to make an
continued from page 20 
The 6'3", 300 pound Taylor played backs on their roster after trading J.D. impact immediately. The Dolphins lost player that can help our defense, which guard and tackle at Notre Dame, but Williams and losing free safety Nate center Jeff Uhlenhahd to free agency so is a concern of ours," San Francisco will probably play left guard for the Odomes to Seattle as a free agent. Ruddy should get a chance to start. head coach George Seifert said from the Packers, coach Mike Holmgren said. "We went into the draft with certain "It's unfortunate for them to lose their team complex in Santa Clara. "He's got "We expect him to play and play guys targeted and this was one of our center but it's a good chance for me," good size and excellent movement." now," said Holmgren. "It should make targets," said Bills coach Marv Levy. said Ruddy from his dorm room. "I will 
Young was with his family in Chicago our offensive team better right now." "We liked him from day one." have to work hard in minicamp and I when the 49ers called saying he was "He has everything it takes to be suc­The South Carolina native played cor­hope I can win the spot." their man. cessful. I don't see any real weaknesses . nerback, running back, and safety for Ruddy was the final selection in the 
"People were saying I would go some­with Aaron." the Irish and Levy is unsure where second round and the last pick in the where between four to eight, and I had Taylor had hoped to stay home in they'll put Burris. first day of the draft. It is a spot he talked a lot with Seattle (no. 8)," Young California and looked as if his wishes "We don't have him pushed into a didn't think he'd be in. said. "The 49ers kept it hush, hush. I would be met when the Rams were pick­specific spot right now," he said. "We'll "I had been talking with the Miami talked with them a little and they came ing at no. 15 and thinking offensive line­bring him into camp and take a look." coaches and I hoped they would take 
man. But Wayne Gandy from Auburn Burris is just happy for the opportuni­me," said Ruddy. :'They had said theyfor my workout. But either way, I'm 
happy to be going there." was their choice so Taylor fell to Green ty. might with their earlier second round 
All-American offensive tackle Aaron Bay. "I feel I can play anywhere in the sec­pick, but I'm just glad I ended up with Taylor fell to Green Bay, a surprise con­"I only wanted to stay in California ondary," he said from his home in Rock them." sidering he was projected to go in the because of my family," said Taylor. "I Hill. ''I'm confident I can make an All in all, both the players and the top-ten by most experts. am happy, extremely happy to be going impact anywhere in the secondary. I'll teams certainly seem enthusiastic with 
"It hurts me monetarily, slipping a to the Packers. They're a great organi­do whatever is necessary to help the the end results of the Notre Dame-domi­few spots, but I'm happy to be going to zation." Bills win." nated draft day. 
Green Bay," Taylor said from his home Burris wasn't thought of as a first-Burris has an aunt in the Buffalo area Fans at the Marquis are self-assuring The Brown's took Michigan wide
Jock Strip NFL Draft List
experts on the draft. Their god, or receiver Derrick Alexander in the final leader, is analyst and ESPN broadcaster pick of the first round four hours and 56 
The Top Ten 
Mel Kiper, who's hair is as bullet-proof minutes after the draft began. It marks
continued from page 20 
as his ego. Evidence of this came after the second longest opening round in his­ESPN crew which make the draft worth Kiper drew criticism from Indianapolis tory. To sit through the entire day can 1, Dan Wilkinson, dt, Ohio State. attending. New Yorkers fill the gallery, coordinator Bill Tobin. Kiper's critique be compared to watching 19 innings of a 2, Marshall Faulk, rb, San Diego 
screaming and hollering as the fate of of Tobin's choice of Nebraska linebacker Mets' intersquad game. Next year 
State. 
young men is decided. Those fans can Trev Alberts prompted the Colt execu­expansion franchises from Charlotte and 
3, Heath Shuler, qb, Tennessee. 
seldom decipher the stain on their shirt tive to say, "Who the hell is Mel Kiper, Jacksonville will join the drafting 
4, Willie McGinest, de, Southern 
but will fill your ears with draft stats. anyway? Mel Kiper has no more creden­process, adding to the mess. Kiper is all 
It is chic to wear a Jet jersey and bel­tials to do what he's doing than my smiles. Cal. low insults from the balconies of the neighbor, and my neighbor's a post­Twenty football players from 5, Trev Alberts, lb, Nebraska. draft ballroom. No matter who is select­man." Manhattan's Stoyvest High School 6, Trent Dilfer, qb, Fresno State. 
ed, Jets fans will criticize. The gallery of the Marquis booed attended the draft with their coach. 
7, Bryant Young, dt, Notre Dame. 
This year Texas A&M cornerback Tobin and chanted, "Mel, Mel, Mel." Later that night, parents across 
Aaron Glenn was the Jets' top pick. Crazed Kiper groupies have now added Manhattan hear their sons say either, "I 8, Sam Adams, de, Texas A&M. "He's 5'8". I'm saying 5'8"," howled a Tobin's name just below George wanna be the next Marshall Faulk" or 9, Antonio Langham, db, Alabama. Mark Gastineau jersey from the gallery. Steinbrenner on their hit list. ''I'm gonna be just like Mel Kiper." 10, Jamir Miller, lb. UCLA. 
"How ya gonna cover a receiver when Meanwhile, Kiper's hair did not move Either way draft fans don't lose. your a midget." during the outburst. 
Colley, Irish come back to trounce Ohio State, 19-10 
By TIM SHERMAN Saturday's contest that was not Notre Dame scored six of the A major reason for this up my play today," said the at­Spons Writer strange was Randy Colley's next seven goals. and down play was the fact that tackman. "I had to step up and record-breaking performance. That would not be the only the Irish spent six and a half I'm just glad I was able to do so 
Lacrosse, especially Notre The Irish tri-captain, with time the irish had it clicking on minutes in the penalty box. today." Dame lacrosse, is strange. 1:11 left in the first half, all cylinders. The Buckeyes capitalized, scor­Two others that provided a 
-
It's strange that an Ohio notched an assist on a Mike Starting with two minutes to ing four times. spark were midfielders State team that was expected to Maroney tally for his 186th go in the first half and continu­Another reason was Thomas Maroney and Marc Pasquale. be an easy 
career point, surpasing Mike ing into the early part of the Holzer. OSU's senior attack­Each chipped in two goals to opponent Sullivan's all-time record for third period, Notre Dame beat man notched four goals to keep the cause." jumped out to points. OSU goalie Russ Sulk five times his team alive early. an early 3-0 "I'm just glad it's done with," in four minutes. Still, the positives for the "We have a lot of role play­
lead. said a relieved Colley. "To be "At times, we played the best Irish far outweighed the nega­ers," said Corrigan. "They're 
It is equal­honest, I was getting tired of lacrosse of anyone in the coun­tives, as the scoreboard reflect­really starting to learn and ly strange people talking about it. But I'm try," said coach Kevin Corrigan. ed. come into their own. When that the Irish glad I got it on such a great "We have these seven or eight they get the opportunity, had the day with us winning. That's minute stretches where we are The scoring of Brian Gilfillan they've been doing a nice job abiltiy to Randy Colley most important." unstoppable. That's nice. But led the list of pleasant sur­converting." come back What was most important in it is frustrating when we go and prises. the sophomore scored The Irish are hoping to con­with ease and play stretches of getting the win were the spurts play the next five minutes slop­five goals, most of which came vert this success into one more the best lacrosse around and of fantastic lacrosse the Irish py and let the opponent get while the game was still in the win over Michigan State and an win handily 19-10. put together. back into it or keep it closer balance. NCAA tournament berth. 
The one thing about Down 3-0 in the first period, than it should be like today." "I was definitely happy with 

Monday, April25, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Powlus struggles in debut after fast start ­

Freshman quarterback avoids· contact in Blue & Gold 
By MIKE NORBUT tight end Pete Chryplewicz in the back Assistant Sports Ediwr of the end zone. Seven seconds, six 
points. · Saturday's Blue-Gold Game at times "It was a nice way to start," he said. appeared to be more like a childish It was nice, that is, until he ran game of tag than a football game. across the field to the Gold sideline. 
And it was Ron Powlus that kept get­Then reality struck. ting tagged It. 
While the freshman was lining up to "We played Ron with the Gold team take snaps for the Gold team, the Blue because we wanted him to know that -defense was lining up to chase him all not everything was going to go the way over the backfield. you'd like it to go all the time," head The result was the accumulation of coach Lou Holtz said. "We did it so he four sacks for the Blue squad, all of could realize that we won't always them called just on the basis of contact. have the protection and the running 
However, the slight contact on game." Powlus would not have been enough to Powlus found himself scrambling and get a call from children playing two­throwing off balance for the rest of the hand touch football. game. One of his passes in the second 
"It's frustrating to play when you quarter was tipped by linebacker Lyron can't get hit," he continued. "I couldn't Cobbins before being hauled in by just avoid tacklers, I had to keep them Jeremy Sample. far away from me." 
One thing he could not blame on his Later in the second quarter, the yellow jersey, however, was the fact freshman made a good read and a that he went only 3 for 10 for 37 yards, strong throw, but his pass was inter­including two interceptions. cepted by free safety Bobby Taylor, 
The freshman quarterback made his who stepped in front of intended re­debut in electrifying fashion, but his ceiver Derrick Mayes. first unofficial game as a Notre Dame "I'm testing myself," he continued. "I player soon became as disappointing as thought I could squeeze it in, but Bobby the faces of the kids who couldn't catch let me know that I couldn't do it on that him running off the field following the play." game. 
"It was a tough day, but we'll have Despite the ragged showing, Holtz them, I guess," Powlus said. ''I'm just has not lost confidence in his freshman. glad I got to do anything in the spring." "Ron Powlus will be the number one 
The freshman first took the field at quarterback coming back in the fall," the 5:32 mark in the first quarter to he said. "The yellow shirt was frustrat­direct the Blue team's second drive of ing, but next fall is when it really the game. In his first play, Powlus hit counts." 
Krug, Blue crush Blue squad, 31-0 
By MIKE NORBUT going into the fall with the rme Assistant Spons Ediwr showing." The number one quarter­
Although the teams looked back, Ron Powlus, entered the even on paper, the Blue squad game on the Blue team's sec­clearly proved its dominance in ond possession, and promptly Saturday's Blue-Gold Game, threw a 26-yard strike to rolling over the Gold team 31-0. Chryplewicz to make the score 
At kickoff, the Blue had 14-0. twelve first teamers from the Powlus' efforts for the Gold spring depth chart on its start­side, however, were far less ing teams, while Gold had ten. heroic, as he completed only 2 It was the play in a few certain of 10 passes and threw two in­key areas, however, that told terceptions. the tale of the game. Despite the drubbing, there 
"Play was ragged in some ar­were some defensive standouts eas," head coach Lou Holtz on the Gold squad, including said. "That's what happens Stokes with eight tackles, line­when you break a team up like backer Alton Maiden with that, though." seven, and linebacker Bill Wa­
The Blue team's offensive line gasy with 12. was its strong point, as its pro­"Our defense tackled well," tection of quarterbacks Tom Holtz said. "For us to be com­Krug and Ron Powlus and petitive, our defense will have blocking for running backs Ray to be the strong point." Zellars and Randy Kinder pro­Free safety Bobby Taylor, pelled them to victory. who had two interceptions for 
"The Blue offensive line was the Blue squad, was named de­By TIM SHERMAN balls for the Blue squad. "We From there, his soft hands did very impressive," Holtz contin­fensive player of the game. Sports Writer have a whole new passing the rest of the work, as he eas­ued. "Rick Kaczenski, Jeremy "We have a lot of team speed scheme and we just want to ily pulled in the Powlus toss. Akers, Dusty Ziegler, and Mike on defense," Taylor said. Last season, Lou Holtz used contribute." "Pete just did a great job get­
Doughty all did a fine job, and "We'll be able to attack and 
his tight ends about as often as The contribution was espe­ting free and hauling it in,"they're going to make .a strong make things happen." he praised his team. cially notable in the first half, praised Powlus. 
run to start in the fall." The Blue defense made m.any Knowing Holtz, the amount when each had four grabs. McBride's effort, if not atten­Zellars and Kinder proved to things happen to keep the Gold 
of praise will remain the same Few of the catches were on the tion-grabbing, was, nonethe­be a lethal combination for the team off the scoreboard. In­this fall. However, if Saturday's spectacular side, but five of the less, solid. Blue team, combining for 101 cluding the two Taylor Blue and Gold Game was any nine did go for first downs. The flfth-year senior, playing 
yards on 30 carries and scoring interceptions, Jeremy Sample 
indication, the tight ends will Also, Chryplewicz was in­for the undermanned gold of­three touchdowns. picked off a pass at the end of be seeing significantly more ac­volved in the game most mem­fense, accounted for 34 of the 
Their performances were the first quarter, and Oliver 
tion, especially in terms of the orable play. 53 yards gained in the air. overshadowed by the play of Gibson recovered a Wade Smith passing game. At 5:32 of the first quartrer, Because each performedKrug, however, who completed fumble to halt a Gold drive. Pete Chryplewicz and Oscar Ron Powlus entered the con­well, little was gained in terms 12 of 16 passes for 106 yards, Some younger and inexperi­McBride combined to catch test. His first play was a 26 of who has the edge going into including a crucial fourth down enced players, such as Charkes nine passes in the 64th annual yard touchdown strike to the fall, but if it is a problem, it completion to tight end Pete Stafford and Emmett Mosley, spring game, surpassing their Chrylplewicz. Most will re­is definetly one of a pleasnt
Chryplewicz and a 19-yard also made major contributions. 
entire total of 1993 of just member the play because of nature. 
strike to walk-on John Lynch. It was players like these that eight. Powlus, but Chryplewicz was ''Hopefully, we gave the Krug was named the offensive gave Holtz reason to be positive 
"Using the tight ends as re­equally impressive. coaches reason to be confident player of the game. about the fall. ceivers is part of the new of­The 6'5", 255 lb junior used in our abilities," said Chry­
"Tom Krug did a very fine "I'm anxious to start next fense of coach Roberts (new his 4. 7 speed to surprise the plewicz.
job," Holtz added. "He has fall," he said. "Every player offensive coordinator)," said defense and get behind cover­Maybe even reason enoughearned the number two spot will be physically ready." Chryplewicz, who caught five age deep in the end zone. for compliments. 

~··-·--~-~------------­1  --~---­ -~  ----~-­ ~--­ 
page 18  The Observer • SPORTS  Monday, April2S, 1994  

Irish sweep Evansville and clinch MCC championship
-
By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sporn Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team (26-9) clinched the Midwestern Collegiate Conference title with three wins against Evansville in a four­game series this weekend at Eck Stadium. 
The three wins gave the Irish a 12-2 record in the MCC and left Detroit-Mercy, Butler and Evansville to fight over second place. 
The Irish closed the series with a pair of victories on Sun­day after giving away the sec­ond game of Saturday's dou­bleheader. 
Robbie Kent and Mark Mapes led the Irish attack from the plate in the weekend series. Kent, an Evansville native, im­pressed his hometown fans with a 4-for-1 0 performance that included three home runs, one of which was a grand slam, a double, seven runs scored and 10 RBis. Mapes, appearing in only Sunday's doubleheader, went 6-for-9 with four RBis. 
Kent credits the situations for his continued success at the plate. 
"Half the time I come to bat, there's a guy on third with less than two outs. You can just about do anything, but strike­out or hit a pop-up and you'll score a run," explained Kent. "It seemed that with guys on base they were making more mistakes. I happened to get pitches I could drive." 
In the series finale, Kent drove in seven runs including four on his seventh-inning grand slam and Tim Kraus pitched a four-hit shutout as the Irish downed the Aces 12-0. 
The Irish scored two runs in the first on Kent's double and three runs in the second on a Kent sacrifice fly, a Greg Layson ground ball and Mapes single. Notre Dame picked up another run in the fourth when pinch hitter Ryan Topham 

• • • Appear 
•
In our RESUME BOOKS 
Deadline: Before you leave campus in May! 
Placement Services 
blasted a two-run double to left.  the threat with his double play.  
Scott Sollman opened the fllth  The second game of Satur­ 
inning with his second triple of  day's doubleheader wasn't  
the day and then came home on  pretty as Notre Dame handed  
a wild pitch to make the score  Evansville a 9-5 win on a silver  
7-0. In the seventh, Topham  platter. The Irish committed  
added a run to the board with  five errors and allowed the  
his sixth home run of the year  Aces to score all nine of their  
and Kent put the game away  runs with two outs.  
with a grand slam to left field to  Head coach Pat Murphy was  
make the score 12-0 in a game  not pleased with his team's per­ 
that Evansville played under  formance.  
protest because coach Jim  "I haven't seen us play that  
Brownlee was tossed out  badly since the first game of the  
between games.  Miami series. We just relaxed  
In Sunday's first game, it was  too much in the game," said  
fitting that Robby Birk should  
make the last out in Notre  
Dame's 7-6 victory.  
The junior left fielder made  
the difference in the game with  
his standout defense stopping  
two potential rallies. In the  
fourth inning, Birk made a div­ 
ing catch in short left, but it  
was his double play with bases  
loaded in the fifth that helped  
win the game. He caught Hank  
Wheeler's line drive to short  
left on the run and then gunned  
down Chris Clements at the  
plate to end the inning.  
Notre Dame jumped on the  
board early with three runs in  
the first and then increased  
their lead to four in the third  
inning on Mapes' two-out RBI  
single into right center.  
The Aces creeped back into  
the game with a single run in  
the fourth and three runs in the  
fifth to knot the score at 4-4.  
Notre Dame used three pitchers  
in the fifth before Birk ended  

Attention Students! 
We will wrap, pack, and ship your items! 
Michiana Pack and Ship 
715 West McKinley Mishawaka (East of Video Watch) 254-9260 
Authorized UPS Shipping Agency 
Murphy. "We're playing the best teams in the Midwest we can play. It is not an easy schedule especially when you play teams like this that play with a nothing to lose atti­tude." 
The Aces read Irish starter Tom Price (8-3) like a book knocking in eight runs on 13 hits, but only three of the runs were earned as the Irish de­fense turned in its worst per­formance of the year. 
For Evansville, leftfielder Ryan Brownlee and shortstop Carroll both went 3-for-5 in the game and third baseman Aaron Devlin went 2-for-5 while Aces starter Chris Helfrich allowed five runs on six hits. 
The Irish bats were rather si~ lent in the game with only Haas (2-for-4) having much success. 
In Saturday's first game, Kent went 2-for-3 in leading the Irish past the Aces, 3-2. 
Tonight, the Irish face cross­town rival Goshen College in a doubleheader starting at 5 p.m. at Eck Stadium. 
Surprise! 
Happy Birthday 
Liz Cenedella 
Love, 
Hugs & Kisses 
Mom, Dad, Mary Ann &Kim 
Ziker 
cleaners 
Give Mom A Break! Why pack-up winter clothes to take home for the summer? We'll keep them stored & cleaned til you're back. Just pick-up a storage box at Ziker Cleaner and fill it with your winter clothes. Then return the box to Zikers and your clothes will be cleaned and stored on hangers in our moth-proof vault all summer and ready for you when you return in the Fall. Two Locations Near Campus/ 
207 US 31 Ironwood at South Bend Ave. (across from Bob Evans) (Next to Martin's) 272·8093 Greenwood Shopping Center Store Hours ~on thru Fr17:3Qam.6pm 272·9461 
~-~ -------~~-~-~---------------­
Monday, April 25, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
SPELUNKER 
... .:SINCt I'D BEEN 5tbT, KILLED, RE.SlJRR.tt:TED, :SHO'iW INTb A Rof3DT, IO.I'HUME:D 1\S 1\ ZDMBit., AND f:'.IENWI\U.'{ Fo~olTE:N 
IN Tl-115 STRIP, I WI!NieD REvE:N6E. Nl'llURI'iLV{, I Bl-AMED OUR STAR, HANK. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
n1ERE GOES 
I?DSAL~N A~ND 
11-\'t: t\0\lst AGAit-l 
S\1E STILL 00\:.SKi; 
KN()W '{(),) S~tAI:l.D 
SACK INSIDE. 
So, L BECAME Tl-le ENE:Mil, 
DRESS &0 M'I :::ON BVD ItS 8oB n-1& HENCI/MAN,AND _ &J1 Ll TlfE D6JA VV Df:I/IU:. 
VI-\ 0\1. S\-\E SAW TI-lt. LIG\-\T ON IN T\-1\S ~. S\\t.'S 
COMII-\G \1'1.! 
QIJI('( I GEl IN TWi: C.O'J8S! 
PR8t.l'~D 'f.lt:~£ 
j\lS\gt.EN 
READI!--IG IN Bt.D.' 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
THG D£YICE. 15 1\ BoMB DESIGN· 
E:D To C..Rtf\11; A ThMPoRI\'L l-001'. HANK WolJLO'Vt BE.EN 51=NT BAG!< IN nME: 11.J nt€ 
1s!-511;LVNKER AND FORCED 1D REUVE HIS TIME AI HD 0\JE.R ANO OllER At;AIN. 
Gu'\5 'St-H\C. 11\o~E. "'P<.P->E.<-n-"'1 Goo'b" CP-.RPE.n. --r,i~.,. G• IU..S 
~(2..ow Q..,.,.-. 
JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATTERSON 
lli~ CO~ERS f!..Rt. HER£. M~ ?t..\fi.Mfi.S M~E HERE. IT'S 1\'S 
Plr>.\N 1>-S Cf>.N BE.' 
DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
...
~ 



28 Like some schools 
1 Artistic skill 
6 Card game also 50 Analyze a called sevens 29 Sweetens the sentencekitty12 Holed out in two 51 Actor John of 
under par 30 Smart alecks 
TV's "Addams 14 Warned 32 Traffic circle Family" 53 Locale
16 English essayist 33 Charlie Brown's Richard 55 Money-back
"Darn!" deal
17 Burglar 34 Ex-Mrs. Burt 57 Boot camp Reynolds18 Cools, as coffee 
denizen 35 Charge with gas 
19 Pumpkin eater 58 Noted family in of rhyme 
38Adorned china 21 Summer drink manufacture42 Vineyard fruit 59 Arabs22 Employee 
43 Kismet 
&o Cancel the short 44 Snick's partner launch
health plan, for 
23 Horse trainer's 45 Detest equipment 
46 Alternative to DOWN 25 Black cuckoos eggdrop 
1 "L'etat-": Louis XIV 2 Army grub 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.. 
3 Ripening agent 4 Butler's "The Way of All--" 
18 Sullivan's 37 Knocking 47 High­5--Aviv "really big" one sound muck-a-muck 6 Observed Lent 20 Summers, in 38 Forbids 50 Fir 
1 Change the Haiti 39 Bootee maker 52 Prefix with 24 Sharp
hemline 40 Most masochism 

a---do-well 25Ciowning Halloweenlike 
54 Item of office 
achievements? .
9 "La-la" 41 Doyen attire
27 Mexican shawl 
preceder 43 Smithies 56 Fuel efficiency 
29 Top-flight
1 o Home of the '96 46 Dwindled rater: Abbr.
31 Arena receipts 
Olympics 
32 Drive in Beverly
11 Poorer 
Hills 
Get answers to any three clues 
34 Epistles 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
35 Shocked 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
36 Pencil ends 

SPORTS 
page 20 Monday,April 25, 1994 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
When Bookstore Basketball XXIII started 17 days ago, NBT was the number one seed. After the draw whittled down to a sweet 16, Headbangers took over the No. 1 spot. Yesterday, in front of a capacity crowd at Stepan, No. 2 NBT proved they were No. 1 all along with a 21-19 victory over Hcadbangers. 
"Nobody thought we were No. 1," said Joe Haigh, a member of NBT. "A lot of people were talking our team down and a lot of peo­ple talked me down. It became a personal thing and we showed people we could play." 
"It's just unbelievable to win this awesome tournament," added Brad Fish, another mem­ber of NBT. "I had never really heard much about it, but I had a great time playing with all these guys. That team is all classy guys, so it was a fun game." 
Behind the inside strength of tournament MVP Eric Jones, .NBT jumped out to a 6-1 lead. Kris "Hoosier" Winningham dictated NBT'~ offense from his point guard position and scored two early fast break baskets to ignite the surge. 
"It's the closest game we've played in the tournament," said Winningham. "We got the big buckets when we needed them." 
Jones, a repeat MVP and three time finalist, led NBT with 7 points, 9 rebounds and 4 blocked shots. Headbangers had Brian Hamilton and Oscar McBride bang Jones around inside, but Jones came up big with 2 baskets near the end of the game. 
"I guess you dance with the guy that brought you," said Winningham. 
"He's such an athlete," explained Fish. "We needed a big man inside to pound and we went to him often. He wasn't just an individ­ual, because he's fun to play with." 
After falling behind early and trailing 11-7 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Eric Jones of NBT drives between Headbangers' Oscar McBride (left) and Bobby Taylor (right) in yesterday's Bookstore 
see BOOKSTORE I page 15
BasketbaiiXXIII championship game. NBT came from behind to upset the top seeded Headbangers 21-19. 
Women end 
with draw 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports W ricer 
For four years, they played and practiced together nearly every day. 
So Sunday's Women's Book­store championship game was going to be like an off-season pick-up game for seniors Kara Leary, Kristin Knapp, Andrea Alexander and Sherri Orlosky. 
Unfortunately, the game came to an abrupt end when Alexander suffered an injury to her knee with her You Didn't Know About Us enjoying a 9-5 lead over Knapp and Leary's Mishawaka Brewing Co. 
With their teammate in obvi­ous pain, head commissioner Knapp, Leary and Orlosky de­cided to call the game a draw rather than continue to play without Alexander. 
"No one would want to win without playing," said Orlosky, who along with the other var­sity players rejected playing four-on-four or simply handing the win to You Didn't Know About Us, Knapp's original sug­gestion. "I didn't want to win 
see WOMEN I page 14 
Irish rule draft day, three picked in first round 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
S res Editor 
Notre Dame has cornered the market on the NFL Draft. . 
For the second year in a row the Irish had the most players taken in the first two rounds, tying Alabama with four play­ers among the first 65 picks. 
Bryant Young, Aaron Taylor, Jeff Burris, and Tim Ruddy, Notre Dame's team captains in 1993, have new homes with NFL squads. 
Young was the first taken, going at the number seven spot to the San Francisco 49ers. Taylor was selected 16th by the Green Bay Packers, followed by Buffalo's selection of Burris at the number 27 spot. Ruddy rounded out the group when the Miami Dolphins made him the last player selected in the second round. 
Young was the most desired by NFL clubs, as a number of teams vied for the defensive tackle. The 49ers won the bat­tle, trading their first round pick (no. 15). and second and third round selections to the Los Angeles Rams for their sev­enth pick. 
"We think we got a football 

JOCK STRIP 
NEW YORK 
It is a little scary, certainly with uncertainties. The annual NFL Draft at New York's Mar­riot marquis is an affair for the peculiar at heart. 
The draft is an athletic soap opera, a football fan's "Who Shot J.R." episode. 

The NFL George recognizes Dohrmann this and spares no expense. From the fully catered dinner to the chandelier clad ceilings to the 30 plus televisions scattered about the room you can be sure this isn't any average day. 
The day corners the market on speculation, anticipation and excitement. On the sur­face, it is one man handing a card to another man who reads the name of a football player. But ESPN and football fans see it in a vastly different light. For them, this is Christmas in April. 
It is those fans and the 

