


Wednesday, January 19, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 71 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Rooney:NDZ 
applicatio~~l{ 

up for '94-95> 
By BRIAN POSNANSKI Nnw Writer 


After a year which included "Rudy," a Tarnished Dome and a near~miss at a national championship, the Notre Dame Office of Undergraduate Admissions· has finished accepting appli­cations for· the 1995 fresh~ man class. · · .,, 
Applications. according. to Director of Admissions Kevin Rooney, are up. Rooney said applications for the 94-95 school year number close· to 9,000. Last year. he said, the number of applications was about 7,700. 
A rise in applications is typical following successful football seasons, but Rooney pointed out that the admis· sions office has no "scientific survey" to determine how much a successful football season matters. 
There is no one single fac­tor responsible for the rise in applications. Rooney said. 
"Whenever we have had a national championship sea­son, there has been an increase following that, b~t·· those have not been the largest increases in (the) his­tory (of the University)," he said. 
Rooney said the year before the 1988 national championship season, the University had the largest 
see ADMISSIONS I~ 6 



Arctic temps force precautions on campus 
By KATIE MURPHY sible. Be sure to dress in layers Staff Writer and cover up all exposed body parts," said Rossignole. 
Although the cold weather Rossignole also suggests that has not yet succeed in shutting students drink warm liquids down classes for Notre Dame and wear some type of warm and Saint Mary's students this head gear. week, it did manage to impair Although slips and falls have their cars and made the walk to not been any more of a problem 
this year than others. Director of Support Services David
• see FROSTBITE, page 3 
Woods urges students to be 
careful as they walk about cam­class seem much longer than pus. usual. Landscaping crews have been 
Morrissey residents Chad working non-stop since last Sutcliffe and Mark Rygiel were Thursday trying to clear walk­both greeted yesterday by cars ways and parking lots of the that would not start. snow. 
"I am going to have to let it sit "One thing that people need outside until it warms up until, to keep in mind is we all have a oh, about zero degrees and try responsibility to be cautious. again," said Sutcliffe. Our big concern is that people 
"It was good (Monday) night, bundle up and take care of but not (yesterday). I'm blaming themselves," said Woods. it on the cold, " according to In terms of car care, one of Rygiel. the most important steps to 
The brutal onslaught of re­take is to protect the battery. cent subzero temperatures ri­Stoney Clay, owner of SLC Auto vals the weather of past win­Specialists, recommends shield­ters. according to WNDU mete­ing the car from the wind and orologist Nancy David. keeping snow off the hood. 
"We've had two Arctic cold "The best thing to do is to fronts sweep through the re­face them away from the wind . gion. It's warmer in Alaska The Observer/Jake Peters ..or cover it with a blanket," 
than it is here," said David. Bracing herself against the cold, senior Thea True makes her way said Clay. Yesterday's temperatures along South Quad. Officials recommend staying indoors as much as Chris Jones of NAPA Auto 
reached negative 18, breaking possible to avoid frost bite from minimal exposure to the elements. Parts and Repair agrees. a previous low of negative 15 as "The colder it gets, the less recorded in 1940. temperatures of the season, ond front is expected to last power the battery has. If you 
Another record is expected to recent readings have been near until Saturday, when tempera­have to leave (your car) outside be broken today as tempera­record-breakers, according to tures may rise into the 30s. ...cover up the front," said tures dip as low as 20 below David. "Do not go out unless you Jones. zero, with wind chill readings "This has been a strange pat­really have to. If you are Most of the car problems they between 50 below and minus tern. Everybody has been get· stranded in this. weather, your have dealt with stem from dri­
60. This breaks a record low of ting this wacky weather," said flesh could freeze in minutes." ver unpreparedness, according negative 16 set in 1943. David. "We're in a big trough in said David. to Jones. Some jump-start calls 
These lower temperatures the jet stream with cold air Rita Rossignole, head nurse could have been prevented if are because of a clearing in the coming down from Canada and at University Health Services. car owners had checked their clouds. Although this time of even Siberia." agrees. antifreeze, oil and battery year generally brings the lowest According to David, this sec-"Just stay in as much as pos­
see WEATHER I page 4 

Students face housing options for coming semester 
But, by intending to move to a a close proximity to campus, 
OFF CAMI!US HOUSING
OFF•CAMPUS ~~;s~~~~i ~~ll~efn~~n~~e~~~~ ~~~~u~sVi~~.r:~eth~~ee~~fi~no~ -· •· · ·. 
d. . h Highlighted below are some of m.ore popular student residences,
the tra Ihon encapsulated in a t eir own house. featured Instories this week · 
~ 
dorm system whose residents Although off-campus living ~•.,.,...,.rdf#~~e__83 83 remain in the same residence does offer a greater sense of for all of their years at Notre freedom outside of University 1. Turtle Creek 
HousING 1 
..._____________. Dame, barring an off-campus bounds, some aspects of du South Bend Ave. move. Lac, the student life pamphlet north of Edison Ave. 
Editor's note: The following 
"Sure, the tradition is that I of University procedures, cover 2. Campus View 
related stories are the first in a 
would stay in Lewis for another student behavior in and outside north of Vanness 
three-part series examining off­
year except that my friends are of Notre Dame's gates. 
campus housing options for 
f11l!SHAWAKA m

all hoping to move to An excerpt from the book
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
3. Castle Point 

Cavanaugh also," she said. reads "unless otherwise noted,
students. 
"I'm looking forward to a new these rules and procedures ap­experience." ply to all students, undergrad­
By SARAH DORAN 
Yet just as Sheshadri is at-uate, graduate or professional,
Associare News Ediror 
tracted to the new experience whether the behavior occurs on of Cavanaugh. an increasing or otT campus." (p. 12)As the deadline for housing amount of seniors instead are "The University does bringcontracts approaches, students turning to off-campus resi-students to accountability forare faced with the dilemma of dences whose greater sense of their actions off campus," saidreturning to dorm life. ventur­freedom, in addition to reprieve William Kirk, assistant viceing off-campus or, for women, from enforced parietals, con-president for residence life, cit­becoming the first female resi­tinue to lure its tenants away ing rule infractions committeddents of Cavanaugh Hall. 
from campus. by a student while in FloridaThe additional 234 spaces The number of seniors mov-that were punished by resi­available in Cavanaugh give ing off continues to grow each dence life. "But it is more oftenstudents the option of a new year as over 930 seniors that duLac is enforced on cam­campus location and also serve 
presently reside in non-pus."
as an alternative to the addi­··'• 4. Lafayette
University housing, up from Du Lac is not so much a book
tional responsibility assumed Square
788 last year, according to fig-of punishing violations as it is a
with otT-campus living. Main 
ures obtained from the Offices compilation of University
"My dorm is out in nowhere," 5. Notre Dame 
of the Registrar and Off-expectations of student behav­said Archana Sheshadri, cur­
Apartments
Campus Housing. ior on and off campus, saidrently a Lewis Hall junior who 
, Frances at South Bend
In their search for an off-Kirk.
is applying to be a resident as­
····, 6. East Marion St. 
campus residence, students For example, he said, intoxi­sistant and intending to move 
have available to them a wide cation of a student off-campus 7. Saint Louis St. 
to Cavanaugh in the fall. "It will variety of choices ranging from
be neat to be part of a new, and apartment complexes featuring Observer graphic/Brendan Regan 
smaller, dorm." see OFF-CAMPUS I page 4 

Wednesday, January 19, 1994
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Wind chills, lake effect and Father Sarin 
What was Father Edward Sorin thinking? Why did he pick frigid South Bend as his sacred plot of ground to set up what has become this glo­rious national Catholic research institution? There must have been other reasons besides eli-Mike Martin mate that drove him to Business Editor settle here. What could his divinely inspired rea­sons have been? 


Did he think that a cold setting would create a more dedicated student body who would stay in and study instead of going out on weekends? I don't think this is a good point, though, because the thought of slogging to the library through subarctic temperatures is a real good reason to throw a tape of "Caddyshack II" into the VCR and listen to my brain decompose a little longer. 
Perhaps he wanted to ensure a more pious student body, thinking we'd go to church more often. The only reason I'd do that is to pray that we'd never again have to hear the words "wind chill factor." 
Maybe Father Sorin foresaw the South Bend weather reinforcing our Catholic morals. After all. when you are forced to trudge from Morrissey to Knott for a steamy night of passion (coming to an end at 2 a.m.. of course) by the time your freezing carcass gets there the only thing steamy you want is sip a cup of Swiss Miss hot chocolate. 
I don't know what Father Sorin's reasoning was. My question is, why not a place that's bet­ter? Why not a place that's warmer? Why not a place where your eyelids don't freeze together when you are walking to the dining hall? 
Like Florida, maybe. Those undesirable retirees from New York had yet to make the trip south, and so Father Sorin could just as easily have built a golden dome to Notre Dame du Boca Raton. That way we could only be wor­ried by heat waves and bathing suits instead o lake effects and earmuffs. 
How about Australia? After all, my roommate 'ust got done with a semester there and I've only heard him use the phrase "best time of my life" about 457. times. September through May would go trom spring through fall, and so we'd get the best weather of the year rather than the worst, like here. 
Another bonus is that we could go watch our Australian Rules Football team win the national title every year, because, like every other sport in the world, the championship is decided on the field. Well, almost every other sport, but that's a whole different can of worms. 
I'm not saying Father Sorin was wrong. and I'm right. but it doesn't seem like much of a contest. Frostbite vs. Suntans. Wind Chill vs. Tanning Indexes. It's not exactly the Game of the Century. More like Notre Dame vs. Navy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o the Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  
Beth Regan  Production  
Meredith McCullough  Christopher Mullins  
Mike O'Hara  Name  
Sports  
Timothy Seymour  Graphics  
Viewpoint  Brendan Regan  
Mark Krejci  
Brian Seiler  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Three die in tractor-trailer crash with gas pumps 
CORRIGAN, Texas A tractor-trailer struck a car and pushed it into gasoline pumps at a convenience store today, setting off an explo­sion that killed three people, authorities said. Three bod­ies -two men in the rig and a woman in the car -were being retrieved from the crash, which occurred in front of Stubby's Food Mart, said Mike Cox, a spokesman with the Department of Public Safety in Austin. Department Trooper Greg Sanchez said there were no other injuries. Initial reports said four people had died. A nearby school was evacuated as a precaution. "Supposedly the truck was northbound and hit a passenger car from behind and actually pushed the car into the gas pump," Cox said. Neither vehicle hit the store. The truck was carrying automotive parts. The store is located near the intersec­tion of U.S. 59 and U.S. 287; where the eastern Texas town's only signal light stands. Corrigan, a town of about 1,700 people, is 100 miles north of Houston and 25 miles south of Lufkin. 
Bonaduce beats Osmond in boxing 
CHICAGO 
It was Danny vs. Donny, a three-round charity boxing match to determine which former child star had grown into the more macho adult. The winner: Danny Bonaduce, who bloodied Donny Osmond's nose and earned a 2-1 deci­sion Monday night. The challenge began at the gym where both men were working out. Osmond taunted 

Bonaduce as "a poseur, just flexing that flab." There were no knockdowns in the fight at the China Club night­club, but both men landed some good blows, according to one witness. Osmond went the distance. Eighty percent of the proceeds will go to The Tom and Roseanne Arnold Foundation, Bonaduce's chosen charity. The remaining 20 percent will go to The Children's Miracle Network, chosen by Osmond. The amount raised wasn't available. 
Hiker dies, other injured by cold 
CONCORD, N.H. Doctors fought to save the frostbitten hands of a hiker who crawled for three miles through ferocious wind, snow and temperatures far below zero trying to get help 

• for a companion. Jeremy Haas reached the weather observatory at the 6,288-foot summit of Mount Washington on Saturday evening. "I got here because I just kept telling myself to keep moving," Haas told The Boston Globe, which happened to have a reporter at the observatory. But 103 mph wind and 42 below zero cold prevented rescuers from the base of the mountain from looking for his companion, Derek Tinkham, until the next day, when they found him dead in his sleeping bag. The weather didn't clear enough to let Haas be taken down the mountain until Tuesday. Haas said nothing Tuesday while being carried into Littleton Hospital, and the hospi­tal said he did not want to talk to reporters. The obser­vatory crew had bandaged his swollen hands after he arrived Saturday night. 
Agent testifies on pre-raid Koresh 
SAN ANTONIO The first federal agent to approach the Branch Davidian compound the day of an ill-fated raid testified today that David Koresh smirked and shut a front door just before gunfire erupted from inside the building. "I looked up to him and I yelled, 'Police. Lay down,'" said Roland Ballesteros of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. "I reached the front door right after it had been shut .. .I started observing what I believed were 

NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 19. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 
20s 10s 

FRONTS: 
"'T""'T" ...........__ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
© 1994 Aca.I-Wealher, Inc. 
OKLA. 
NEW 


gunshots." Ball~steros said he saw "holes and splinter­ing wood" that he believed were caused by bullets fired by members of the cult. Ballesteros said he was shot in the thumb and didn't fire any of his three weapons. Ballesteros was the first ATF agent to testify at the trial of 11 cult members accused of murdering four agents during the Feb. 28 raid. Sixteen agents were wounded and six members of the cult led by Koresh are believed to have died. The raid touched off a 51-day standoff that ended April 19 when Koresh and about 80 followers died in a fire that authorities said was set by the cult. Many had also been shot. 
'Implants bear blame for digestion 
CHICAGO Researchers found a handful of children nationwide who developed serious digestive problems after being breast­fed by mothers with silicone implants. The implants appear to be to blame, but studies of large numbers of children are needed to know how rare the cases are, researchers said in Wednesday's issue of The Journal of The American Medical Association. For now, women with implants should keep breast-feeding their infants, said a journal editorial by a children's digestive specialist not involved in the work. "The benefits of breast-feeding ...are well established, while the potential adverse effects ...are yet to be confirmed," wrote Dr. Jonathan Flick of Temple University School of Medicine. Dr. Jeremiah Levine, the study's lead author, disagreed. He said no blanket recommendation should be made until more research is done. ''I've let the mothers make up their (own) minds," said Levine, co-chief of gastroen­terology and nutrition at Schneider Children's Hospital in New Hyde Park, N.Y. 
Sabbath Saturday not protected 
COLUMBIA, S.C. The state Supreme Court has ruled that textile companies are exempt from a law that requires employers to give workers Saturdays off to observe the Sabbath. The court M.onday ruled 5-0 in the case of a man who worked for Mount Vernon Mills Inc., which operates seven days a wee~ with rotating shifts. Jimmy Holley, who became a Seventh-day Adventist in 1989, refused to work on Saturdays, the denomination's Sabbath. and the company eventually fired him. State law prohibits textile compa­nies from discriminating against employees who won't work Sundays, but does not mention Saturdays, the court said. When lawmakers amended blue laws in 1985 to let stores open Sundays, they made it illegal for employers to discriminate against those who observe Sabbath on Saturdays or Sundays. But they overlooked the earlier exemption for textile companies. 

H'"ss"'L_ m ~ [Til 0 !Z3 a {) D u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAiN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
H  L  Dallas  33  18  New York  30  11  
Atlanta  27  19  Denver  56  10  Palatine  -12  -20  
Baltimore  21  12  Los Angeles  82.  50  Philadelphia  22  09  
Boston  35  13  Miami  76  64  Phoenix  n  44  
Chicago  -11  -21  Minneapolis  -16  -27  St. Louis  2  -8  
Colombus  -7  -13  New Orleans  45  33  San Francisco  69  46  




Complete coverage crucial for avoiding mild frostbite 
Special to the Observer 
With winter temperatures and windchill battering us with weather in the minus 40s, we are all threatened by one of winter's most painful and com­mon ailments-frostbite. 
Usually involving the tips of the ears, nose, cheeks (above the cheekbones), chin, fingers, and toes frostbite is caused by ice crystals forming between the cells of the skin which grow by extracting fluid from the cells. Since circulation is usu­ally impaired by this swelling the potential for skin damage is great. 
Frostbite is rated in degrees like burns. It may be mild with only redness and minor· swelling at the site or it may be more severe with the presence of blisters, extremely, painfuI swelling, discoloration, blanched skin or in the most severe cases hardened purple tissue frozen to the bone. 
Since most of us are spending ble, the danger of being af­flicted with a severe case of frostbite requiring medical treatment is not great. 


However with the average windchill temperatures of mi­nus 20 to 40 below zero, the danger of one's exposed skin freezing on a five minute walk 
Preventing frostbite is very easy. Wear a hat that covers your ears, whenever you will be outside for more than one minute. Wrap a scarf around your neck and face to cover as much of your skin as possible. Wear sunglasses to protect the delicate skin around your eyes from both the cold dry air as 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 


SANTIAGO, CHILE 
Information Meeting 
with Father Tim Scully, c.s.c. Father Don McNeill, c.s.c. 
and 

Returnees of 1993 Program 
Thursday January 20, 1994 at 7:00 pm Basement Lounge, Fisher Hall 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR NEXT SEMESTER: JANUARY 27, 1994 
ALL SPANISH STUDENTS ARE WELCOME! 



The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for: 
1994-95 EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and possess solid management, puolic relations and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are 
· not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to David Kinney by 5 p.m. Wednesday, january 19, 1994. For additional information about the position or the application process, contact Kinney at 631-4542 or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune Student Center. 
.snow. Wear loose fitting gloves or preferably mittens that allow adequate movement of your fin­gers, so that circulation is not affected. 
Wear loose fitting boots with 

only one pair of warm dry 
socks, again ensuring that cir­
culation is not affected. Wool 
socks are good at keeping mois­ture away from the skin which could contribute to cooling the foot. Wearing two or more pairs of socks and wedging your foot in to your boots will greatly impair your circulation: causing your feet to cool very quickly. 
The most distinguishing fac­tors of a mild case of frostbite are reddened or slightly whitish skin that is mildly swollen. For blacks or others of dark skin, mild swelling is usually the only distinguishing factor. If you have been outside for a long period of time you most likely will not notice the pain due to the frostbite until the affected skin warms up. 
If you do happen to get frost­bite don't worry, in most cases the only treatment needed is rapid re-warming in tepid water and aspirin, aceta­minophen or ibuprofen for the pain. 
If the affected skin blackens, feeling does not return after re­warming or blisters develop, see a doctor immediately. 
Compiled by Ryan Grabow a National Registered Emergency Medical Technician. 


SMC Storybook Festival underway, needs support 
By PATTI CARSON News Writer 
Volunteers are needed to help with the upcoming Children's Storybook Festival, according to Board of Regents Student 

!:illr\ii'll!ltln'l;iWJMIH ­
Representative Ann Grant. 
The festival is designed to en­
courage parents to take the 
time to read to their children. 
This program is targeted at 
children between the ages of 2 
and 8 years on Feb. 27 from 1 
p.m. to 5 p.m. in Madaleva Hall. 
Individual rooms of Madaleva will be decorated ac­cording to the theme of a chil­dren's story, she said. Both on campus and off campus clubs will reserve a room in which .to read a story and plan activities according to the theme. 
The day is especially aimed at children who do not nor­mally have access to this type of activity, according to Grant. 
Volunteers should contact Ann Grant or Maureen Manier. In other business: 
• The position of Student Activities Board (SAB) coordinator is now open. Applications can be picked up at the Haggar desk. 


llllilttcerrv~nr~n117 ccllilrrn~un ~llil JF~llll@ w~llilnw 
Start out '94 by attending one of these student­led small group Bible studies! 
Tuesdays, 7:30p.m.. Stanford chapel Jennifer, 4-3422 Wednesdays, 7:30 p.m.. Morrissey chapel Chuck, 4-3528 Thursdays, 7:00p.m.. Flanner lobby conrad, 4-1374 Thursdays, 8:00p.m., Holy Cross Parlor (St. Mary's) Pam, 284-4358 
page 4 


Inman withdraws 
By TOM RAUM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Retired Adm. Bobby Inman withdrew on Tuesday as de­fense secretary nominee, say­ing he was "distressed and dis­tracted" by attacks on his character and reputation. President Clinton accepted the surprise withdrawal and began a fresh search to fill the post Les Aspin is soon to leave. 
The Texas businessman, a former deputy CIA director, ac­cused his critics of "modern McCarthyism." 
In particular, he lashed out at the news media and accused New York Times columnist William Safire and Senate Republican leader Bob Dole of plotting to undermine his nomi­nation. 


Off-Campus 
continued from page 1 
would be of concern to the University, and du Lac has clearly laid out expectations for student behavior in such an instance. 
But the nature of parietals makes them difficult to enforce off campus and so they do not apply, said Kirk 
Du Lac states, "the University has instituted a policy of limited partial visitation to foster the personal and social develop­ment of residence hall stu­dents." (p. 13) 
The Office of Student Residences will send out on­campus housing contracts from the 1994-5 year on Feb. 1 and they are due in the office by 5 
p.m. on Feb. 16. lf the housing contract is broken after being submitted, a $200 penalty will be assessed. 

The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, January 19, 1994 
If the car actually starts and However, according to JeffWeather needs any of these inspections, Hutchings of Maple Lane both Jones and Clay recom­Amoco, some repairs may be continued from page 1 mend that people take their unavoidable in these conditions cars in for a check-up as soon if the car has old or weak parts. before winter descended. as possible. An oil change is "Cold weather brings out the "People are just not prepared especially important is it has worst in things," said 
for the winter," said Jones. not been done in a while. Hutchings.
Jones suggests that drivers "When the oil is dirty, it gets If students do need a jumpkeep a full tank of gas at all thick and heavy and it doesn't start, they can call Security at times and periodically start want to tum over. It's like mo­1-5555. 
their cars to warm them up. lasses," said Clay. 

Announcing the National Security Education Program Competition 
Win an NSEP scholarship to study abroad in regions of world outside of Canada and western Europe. Study of exotic languages preferred. 
Come to the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams on Thursday afternoon, January 20, 1994 at 4:00p.m. in room 136 DeBartolo. 
Notice to all University of Notre Dame Faculty, Staff and Employees 



ADIOLOG 
+ I N C + 

is pleased to announce its outpatient offices have affiliated with CIGNA MANAGED CARE AND PPO PROVIDER NETWORKS 
Our offices offer: 

• 
easy registration 

•convenient, 
free parking 

•rapid 
turnaround of reports to your physician 


•Computed 
Tomography (CT Scans) • Mammography 

• 
Diagnostic Imaging Services • Ultrasound 


. 
}EFFERSON MEDICAL ARTS BUILDING MEMORIAL MEDICAL PLAZA 919 East Jefferson Blvd. 707 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana 4661 7 South Bend, Indiana 46601 ( 219) 288,4486 (219) 232,1491 
BREAST IMAGING AND INFORMATION CENTER MEMORIAL SKYWAY PLAZA 919 East Jefferson Blvd. 610 North Michigan Street . South Bend, Indiana 4661 7 South Bend, Indiana 4660 1 (219) 288,4486 (219) 232,5191 
.,. .., .,. ---­
-MDS M\MIS1~\~c~~~ 
~0~~­A i_~A~ 

"Laue cannot remain by Itself--It has no meaning. Laue has to be put Into action and that action Is serulce. • 
•'V 



M-sa m 

~ 

J-.'~~t"t4.,. ~ +
~'W}""y-
American

:.1\ 
RedCross 
..&t& ~~b­
-~~; 

~~portunities for service av~:~~ 
at the Social Concerns Festival: 
Se-"~ Thursday, January 20 
L-7:00-10:00 p.m. '1/e~ Center for Social Concerns
~e,.lt. :St
.,...._'ICE Over forty community agencies and """c,~ student gr:oups will be represented. 
LU 
-M 
SA!i"i'T"""M"APY'.~~f.\ I 

/\ORffiU CtMT E R 
fOR lttl <tliHS 

Sunday, Jan. 23,7:30 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Saint Mary's students S6; SM's-ND communities $8 

Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Marv's box office, located in 0Laughlin Auditorium, 9 ~.m.­
/ . . ,

5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard and -. ­
II~
,::: I /

Discover orders by phone at 219/284-4626. :=, / 
f I :; 
7 ­~~ · • •' I [1•\\11<,-;: ?.~ 


------------~--------------------~-----------------------------~--------~ 
Students seek safe, near-by housing at Turtle Creek 





TTE 
UARE
T 0 
N H 0 E S 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are OJ The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
By LIZ FORAN 
News Writer 
One of the closest apartment complexes to Notre Dame. Turtle Creek features a clien­tele of almost 100 percent stu­dents seeking more freedom and privacy in alternative to dormatory life. 
"More freedom, no rules to govern you... You just can't ruin your apartment," senior Mike Scrudato lists as the main reasons he moved into the apartments. "You have to feed yourself, pay bills and develop more of a budget than when you live on campus." 
"You have more responsibili­ties," he added. 
He and many other Notre Dame students, mostly seniors, have echoed these and other reasons for moving off campus, and several have picked Turtle Creek apartments and· town houses as their off campus resi-


The Observer 
Viewpoint Department is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Copy Editor 
Applicants should submit a resume and a 1-2 page personal statement by 5 p.m~, Thursday, January 20. Contact Suzy Fry at 631-4541 for more information. 
dence. 
The complex's close vicinity to campus is one of the reasons that many University students chose Turtle Creek, especially those without cars. "When it's nice out you can walk to cam­pus, it's (the apartments) right next to the soccer fields," Scrudato said. 
For those with cars, parking is always an issue wherever they go. Turtle Creek residents claim no problems with parking at the complex. 
"There's plenty of parking," Scrudato said. "You can park right in front of your building." 
Turtle Creek apartments and townhouses are not furnished, however, and this can be a big expense for students who are used to furnished dorm rooms that usually have no space for extra furniture. 
More room and privacy are· also major issues for students seeking off campus housing. 
Seniors Katie Bergin. Mary Kate Kelly. Kathleen Foley and Kristin Brantman decided to get an apartment together after coming back from studying abroad. 
"We have our own space and we make our own rules," Bergin said. 
Turtle Creek has a choice of both apartments and town h'ouses which provide more room and privacy and is still usually cheaper than living on campus. A two bedroom, two bathroom town house shared by three or four people is $660 a month, according to Scudato. 
Many students worry about security when selecting an apartment complex. Residents insist that they feel safe in the Turtle Creek complex. "We have no trouble with security," according to senior Bruce Emery, a town house resident. "Mostly students live in the 


The Observer 
News·Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 

Copy Editor 
Applicaqts should submit a resume and 1-2 page per­sonal statement by 5 p.m., Thursday, January 20. <:ontact ~eredith McCullough at 631-5323 for more mformatio~. ~so, '_fhe Observer is currently seeking enthusiastic wnters for the Business Section. Please call Mike Martin at 234-1228 if interested. 
town houses and Court area so its obvious who belongs there and who doesn't." 
Even though her car was bro­ken into recently. Bergin says she feels very safe at Turtle Creek. Senior roommates Brian Kubicki and Harvey Leo also feel safe in their apartments, but the safety of their cars is rather uncertain. Within two days of each other. both cars had their windows busted out, and Kubicki had his car stereo stolen. 
"I wasn't really surprised to walk out and see my window smashed," Kubicki said, "be­cause my roommate had the same thing happen to him two days before." 
"The apartments are pretty safe," he added, "but not that much attention is given to the parking lot." 
Maintainance concerns are also something students look 
into before selecting an apart­ment. "If you have a problem, they are usually there within a day or so," Scrudato said. 
Emery has a slightly different view. "Maintainance is not re­ally prompt." he claims. "Our lock fell apart once and they fixed that right away, but leaks and drips can go for months before anything gets done." 
Overall, Turtle Creek resi­dents find the complex suits their needs, especially as far as freedom and independence are concerned. 
"We just put dinner on the table and it's 7 p.m.," Kelley said. "The dining hall would be shutting its doors in our faces." 
"From freshman to senior year the campus rules don't change much," Emery added, "and of course everyone grows up a lot during that time. I re­ally enjoy living off campus. It lets you get a jump on being out on your own." 

Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 


232-8256 
-

,..----~-~------~-~ ~­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, January 19, 1994 
AIDS Quilt presentation still needs 150 volunteers 
By JOSLIN WARREN News Writer 
The presentation of the AIDS Quilt is expected to be a spec­
1:t:lllWil fi!I] ;~j iJSiliJ~[~ I' 
tacular affair and is looking for a great deal of support from the student body, according to the student government AIDS Quilt Project committee member Michelle Crouch. 
They are in need of 150 vol­unteers and really "need as many volunteers as [they] can get," said Crouch. 
The quilt can be viewed from 

· Admissions 
continued from page 6 
applications increase ever. That year, 15,000 people applied, he said. 
Despite the national attention Notre Dame receives, the ad­missions office does not rest on those laurels. 
"This year we did add a few extra elements," said Rooney. "We did more direct mail to more outstanding prospects. We did a little bit more~ travel­ing to visit high schools." 
Another factor might also have played a part in the appli­cations increase. In 1993, Notre Dame returned to the "U.S. News & World Reports" list of top 25 universities. The magazine ranked Notre Dame 25th. 
Rooney downplayed the sig­nificance of the magazine's rankings. "I don't think it has much of an impact on high school administrators. They have a broader sense of the quality of higher educational institutions. They have so much experience they're not as impressed with a bunch of numbers a magazine throws together." 
Rooney added, however, that "some students and parents are influenced by what they see in that publication." 
One trend the admissions of­fice has been able to pinpoint is the effect the national economy has on the number of applica­tions. "We do seem to see are­lation between the perceived state of the national econorn'y and the number of applica­tions," Rooney said. In a re-Feb. 25-27 at Stepan Center. There will also be panels of speakers including alumni "who have had personal expe­riences with AIDS," she said. 

In other HPC business: 

• Hall President Council Co­Chairman Jackie Macy an­nounced that outside vendors on campus is still a possibility. 
"An outside firm will be hand­ing out student surveys and surveying the whole food sys­tem and its traffic patterns," said Macy. 
• Breen Phillips is sponsoring a meal auction on Sunday, Jan. 30 in the LaFortune Ballroom to benefit the Catholic Worker 
cession, he added, the number · of applications decreases no­ticeably. 
Rooney said he was not sure whether or not the movie "Rudy" affected applications. 
"Certainly a number of high school-age students saw the movie, and it may have given some people another view of the University" which they could not have normally gotten, Rooney said. "Maybe some of those people may not have applied a year ago." 
According to Rooney, "Under the Tarnished Dome," a book critical of Notre Dame and its football program, played no part in students' decisions to apply. "It seemed to have no effect on prospective students," he said. 

Foundation, a shelter for bat­tered women. Such Notre Dame celebrities as Father Hesburgh and Lou Holtz. among others. will be hosting 20 meals for groups or stu­dents. 
Bill Kempf Captain pholo courtesy of The Dome 


"The bidding will begin at $2 a plate to one representative of each group." said Breen Phillips Co-President Liz Caruso. 
• The Book Fair "went very well" according to Grace Hall Co-Chairman Al Marchetti. It is too late to pick up unsold books since they have already been donated. The money for sold books can be picked up at the student government oflice until Feb. 9. said Marchetti. 






0 

You Are Invited to Attend 


Senior Vice President 
Thursday, january 20 
5:30p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
Reception  ·  Meet P&G managers from:  
immediately following.  • Finance  
Food and beverages  • Sales  
will be served.  • Management Systems  
Dress is casual.  • Product Development  
Students from  • Product Supply  
all majors welcome.  • Brand Management  


,....----------~-------~---~-------~--­




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, January 19, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFiCE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor 
Kevin Hardman 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager 
Brian Kennedy 

Advenising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman 
Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the indep<ndent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. 
Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those 
ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's Managing EditorNiewpoim 631-4541 Day Editor/Production Business Office 631-5313 Advertising Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 
LETTERS TO THE miTOR 
631-4540 631-5303 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 


Columnist misinterprets survey 
Dear Editor: 
The Jan. 14, 1994 edition of The Observer contained an ar­ticle by Paul Pearson ("For one Baptist Convention figuring sal­vation is like algebra") which addressed a Southern Baptist Convention survey of beliefs about the afterlife. As a mem­ber of the Southern Baptist Convention, I feel compelled to respond to his article because of the inaccuracies it contains and the fundamental misun­derstanding upon which the article is based. 
First, I take exception to Pearson's statement that the Southern Baptist Convention thinks that every Southern Baptist is going to heaven and the parenthetical addition to that statement that this must include such characters as Jimmy Swaggert and Jim Bakker. The error in this fee­ble use of sarcasm is that nei­ther of the two men is' a mem­ber of the Southern Baptist Convention. Both are members of the Assemblies of God (Facts on File 1988, p. 118, coL 2). 
However, Pearson's failure to check his facts before using them to emphatically state an opinion is not what troubles me most. The more tragic aspect of the statement is that Pearson attempts to implicate an entire denomination in hypocrisy by association. Even if the two were members of the Southern Baptist Convention, their acts would in no way say anything about the moral fiber of the membership-just as the affil­iations of Swaggert and Bakker say nothing about the goodness of the members of the Assemblies of God. 
There are tremendously good people in every religion and 
DOONESBURY 

5U8J&CT: MY 
RECeNT L.IF&~te MWI­
FICATION .' OUR UN&S 
ARE OP&N. GO AHCA{), 
CAUGR. ... \ 

Pearson need not malign their character through sweeping generalizations. 
The crux of Pearson's article focuses on a survey conducted by the Southern Baptist Convention. This survey was an attempt to figure out what percentage of the Alabama population shared the Southern Baptist view on how an individ­ual can access heaven in the af­terlife. Pearson misinterprets this survey as being a state­ment by the Southern Baptist Convention that all Southern Baptists are going to heaven and virtually everyone else will not. 
Having attended 24 years of Southern Baptist sermons and graduating from a Southern Baptist College, I can unequivo­cally state that such an idea is untrue. Any Southern Baptist minister would have told Pearson that one's eternal fate involves the relationship be­tween God and the individual­not whether that individual was a member of a particular de­nomination. Of course, the Southern Baptist Convention has a belief about the charac­teristics of that relationship, but so does every other denomination within the Christian faith (as does every religion in the world for that matter). 
The true purpose of the sur­vey was not to condemn, but to see how many people agree with the Southern Baptist Convention's belief about the afterlife. The Southern Baptists believe that man has a free will and can therefore be per­suaded. The survey was noth­ing more than an attempt to find out where to focus these efforts. Certainly there is noth­ing wrong with this. 
Every organization, whether political or sectarian, that es­pouses an idea is necessarily involved in the business of per­suasion. If one does not wish to accept a belief he should simply not believe it. There is no need to disparage a group of people who believe differently. 
Finally. Pearson's statement that Catholics are perhaps too liberal by Southern Baptist standards not only engages in an intellectual fantasy. but serves to divide two peoples who have much in common. For instance, both officially embrace the principal that abortion is wrong. Catholics and Southern Baptists recently joined forces to launch a pro­gram whereby they ask the youth of their respective churches to take vows of absti­nence until marriage. 
In my hometown of Rogersville, Tenn., the Southern Baptist Churches (not to mention various other de­nominations) hold joint services with the local Catholic Church on certain holidays. Any idea that Catholics and Southern Baptists cannot get along be­cause they do not share identi­cal beliefs is simply false. 
In short, religious faiths are entitled to distinct beliefs. They are entitled to attempt to per­suade, and they are entitled to disagree. However, these dis­agreements need not degener­ate into reactionary responses which can only erect barriers between peoples of differing faiths. 
W. DAVID WINSTEAD 
Graduate Srudenr in Law Off-campus 

EJECAU5E3 REAL-L-Y? HOW IT~ V£3/?.Y WOUW YOU 
Sophomores suspect abuse of power with leadership 
Dear Editor: 
We wish to comment on what we believe to be the gross mis­handling of the sophomore class trip to Chicago. This trip is to take place during JPW and entails an overnight stay in the city to see either the "Phantom of the Opera" or the comedy group Second City. Eighty tick­ets were to become availabic for those wishing to attend "Phantom of the Opera," with admittance to the play, hotel accommodations for one night, and transportation all included in the $50 cost. 
These tickets went on sale at 3 p.m. on Monday, Jan. 17, at the sophomore class ollice. My roommates and I. anticipating a large crowd, arrived at the office at 2:10, and waited for nearly an hour as approxi­mately the ninth or tenth in line. The office opened promptly at three and began selling the tickets. Our com­plaint is this: by the time we reached the office to purchase our tickets only one ticket re­mained for "The Phantom of the Opera" option. 
Sophomores were allowed to purchase four tickets per per­son. If, at the most. the ten people ahead of us bought four tickets a piece, no less than forty tickets should have re­mained when we met the front of the line. What happened to the other 39 tickets? We have heard a rumor that sophomore class officers acquired tickets 
bel'ore they officially went on sale and made them available early to friends. We feel that this is unfair, for although the officers undoubtedly labored to put the trip together, the disap­pearance of 39 tickets is negli­gent and very unprofessionaL 
We sincerely hope that this rumor is untrue and we would like to offer and opportunity for the class ofliccrs to respond to our complaint. We feel that we have been misled and possibly cheated out of a wonderful ex­perience with our classmates. 
JENNIFER EARLS NICOLE RAUERT ANN POTTER MOLLY DAVIS AIMEE GARBISON Sophomores Lewis Hall 


GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
UM... 
YOUR.

PAINFUL.-TO !<!VOW THAT? 
MOTH&!<..
YaJR. WVW fiJHO 15 TH/5 ~ 
ON/3'3. ~~~;:::::1::::::""....._ 
T
hey don't throw their
\

t garbage away They 
make it into televi­
sian shows. 
-Woody Allen on Los Angeles 




ACC~NT 
Wednesday, January 19, 1994 . page 9 
STRAIGHT OUTTA 'WAKA 
Deck the CoMiNq of AqE oN THE STAqE 


reak was the movie "Leprechaun." For have not seen it, let me just say that it'-s 
The play was cast before October break, with rehearsalsJ"'u'""'"u'~,; sensation for the eyes. 
taking place beginning after October break, three days a~or those who have, let me just say (with 
I~1sh accent) "Where's me gold? Tell me, or I'll b1te your ear off and make a boot out of it." re's no doubt, this movie was the most in the Kazlauskas household since the home release of "Teen Wolf." Owwwoooooo. Much to my delight, my grandma joined us for 
he holiday festivities. She called in late November to tell us that she had made parole towards the back half of a two-year sentence for jaywalking. 
In completing her Christmas list, I escorted her to the San Jose Flea Market where she 
ght a leopard skin toilet seat lid cover, and 
that says, "I'm Down Wit O.P.P." I enjoyed her company immensely, esJJeclaJIV hen she entertained the family on 
E~e by playing "God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen" w1th the old hand-in-the-armpit flatulation 
I have never been the best gift-giver, but this ar was different. I got my mom a Flo-bee, one of those hair clippers that sucks as it cuts. For 
my dad? The Garden Weasel. I was stumped as to what to get my brother, but then I remembered, "You can never go 
with McDonald's gift certificates." I gave my grandma the usual-a coupon for a free tat­too of her choice. Last but not least, I gave 
a "Jurassic Park" nightgown and the lim­ited ~::lition Debbie Gibson box set. By the looks on everyone's faces, I knew I had
well. 
As quickly as it came, break soon was over. the final night, while I was taunting my cat, mal, something magical happened. paused, looked at me, and in a e, whispered, "Kris, good luck this seme Remember -I may be a cat, but you be the wind beneath " 
L_~~~~~~~~~~----~ 
The play is being put on by the Saint Edward's Hall Players, an acting troupe composed wholly of ordinary Notre Dame students. 
This pl.ay will ?e the s~venth annual play staged by the ~layers. m what IS becommg one of the many special tradi­ttons on campus. 
Saint Edward's Hall began putting on plays in 1987 as a way to build dorm spirit and because those involved enjoyed acting so much. 
~The pu~pose of the play is entertainment," said Bob Ma1da, co-d1rector of the play and accounting major. 
Mai~a typ!fies the cast ~nd ~rew of the Players. None of them IS senous about gomg mto a career in the theater after graduation, yet this fact does nothing to dim their enthusiasm for acting. . . 
The cast of seven, mcludmg four women, two St. Ed's residents and one former St. Ed's resident presently living off-~ampus, acts out the _story of a first generation Jewish fam1ly ~hat comes to realize a few things about each other, accordmg to producer and St. Ed's junior E. L. Chaffee. 
week, three hours a day. 

"We began rehearsing so early because it's hard to find a place to practice on campus, and because we wanted to make sure the play is good," said Maida. 
The play deals with the coming-of-age of Eugene and specifically how he relates to his family, Chaffee said. 
During a successful run on Broadway, Matthew Broderick starred as Eugene, who is being portrayed by Neil Murphy in the Players' production. 
The popularity of the play grew in 1989, when "Brighton Beach Memoirs" was made into a successful motion pic­ture. 
"This is the only play we thought about doing," Chaffee said. "We met at the end of last year, and decided we wanted a comedy of some sorts," said Maida. "But at the same time not a slapstick like 'Out of the 
. . 
. • , • The Observer/David Hungeling 
Th1s ts a scene from Brtghton 1:3each Memoirs," the seventh annual production being staged by the St. Edward's Players. 
Frying Pan,' (the play. staged by the Players last year)," added Maida. "We also wanted something with feeling, which is characteristic of Neil Simon's plays." 
"The great thing about Simon's plays is that everyone can relate to them on some level, whether it be relationships, feelings or experiences," Chaffee said. 
The small community of Brighton Beach in 1938 is the home of 14-year-old Eugene, a Jewish boy whose grandparents have emigrated to New York City. 
"This is typical of Neil Simon, because the main character is relating his story of growing up and characterizes Neil Simon's own life," said co-director James Kroger.
Euge!le's nine-day odyssey from boyhood to 
manhood is detailed with much humor as he starts to realize how his family's 
actions relate to his own, added Chaffee. 
"Eugene learns more about people and what they mean to him," Chaffee explained. 
"The play is going well this year and the cast is tremendous," he said.
"They're working well 
together." The play will begin at 8 
p.m. Thurs., Jan. 20 
through Sat., Jan. 22. TheObserver/DavidHungeling Tickets are $4 at ~he 

Co-dtrectors James Kroger and Bob Matda, along with producer E.L. Chaffee (I. tor.) look on during a LaFortune InformatiOn rehearsal of the play. Desk and at the door. 
--------------:---:----~---:-------------------, 
page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, January 19, 1994 
Blair in hopes of adding tnore gold Jansen looking to alleviate 
ByRON LESKO eat dinner, watch TV, go to At the U.S. Olympic trials this Associated Press bed. month, Blair was by far the top 
frustration of Calgary

"You've really got to be care­American qualifier in the 500, 
MILWAUKEE So here is history, waiting once again to welcome Bonnie Blair. 
The arms of unparalleled Olympic achievement are out­stretched to the hard-charging, medal-gobbling, tells-it-like­she-sees-it queen of speedskat­ing. 
It is not so much a question of if Blair will become the most decorated American woman in Olympic history. She needs to win only one medal at next month's Games, and her chances are excellent as long as she stays healthy. 
Rather, the world will pause to see which precious metal ­or metals -become acces­sories to Blair's familiar red, white and blue Olympic ensem­ble. 
With that heady fate beckon­ing, what is on the mind of America's icon of the ice? 
Dry cleaning. 

Destiny, you see, has its drawbacks. The grind of daily life can rub uncomfortably against the regimen of an Olympic champion. 
''I've probably struggled more with that this year than any­thing else," Blair said. "Put everything aside, go to the rink, come back eat lunch, lay on the couch, go back to the rink again or do whatever your next workout is, come back home, ful that you don't overdo the outside things." 
In Milwaukee or her native Champaign, Ill., a quick trip to the grocery store can become an unplanned autograph ses­sion. Blair, 29, appreciates the attention, and admits she is no Michael Jordan in the public's eye. 
Still, she says, it's sometimes nice when no one notices her in the checkout line. 
And now that there's an indoor speedskating facility in the United States -,.Mi.lwau­kee's year-old Pettit National Ice Center -Blair has been training more often at home, which she says has as many shortfalls as advantages. 
On the road, someone else sweats the details. At home, she's on her own. 
"When you're at home you've got to go to the post office, you've got to go to the dry cleaners," Blair said. "All those things really add up, and that's what you've got to be careful of. That's hard." 
Blair likes her life simple and uncluttered. Her success is as easily attributed to the way she orders her life as it is to her athletic talent. She has an uncanny ability to focus on only what is directly in front of her without being distracted by what lies ahead. 
1,000 and 1,500 meters even though she competed against a mediocre field. She pushed her­self to track records in eight of her nine races, playing a soli­tary game of "Can you top this?" 
"I'm the one that really puts the pressure on myself and tries to really push it," Blair said. "That gun goes off. and I just want to go." 
Blair was 19 when she com­peted in her first Olympics, fin­ishing eighth in the 500 meters at the 1984 Games in Sarajevo. 
"That was the best I had skat­ed," Blair said. "And being eighth, I felt like I had won." 
She did win four years later, taking the 500 at the Calgary Olympics for her first medal. Her winning time of 39.10 see­onds is still the world record. Blair also got a bronze in the 1,000 that year, and followed with golden performances in both races at the 1992 Games in Albertville. 
She is the only woman to win the 500 in consecutive Olympics, and her four total medals tie her for the U.S. record with diver Pat Mc­Cormick, sprinter Evelyn Ash­ford and swimmer Janet Evans. 
But as recently as a year ago, Blair feared she may have been losing the snap that had made her the world's top sprinter. 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 
He goes for gold and comes 
back with grief. He wants only 
to skate, yet gets only sympa­
thy. And wherever Dan Jansen 
goes, inevitably he is asked The 
Question. 
Most recently it came in Milwaukee, as Jansen talked about being the first speed skater to break 36 seconds in the 500 meters and his chances in the upcoming Winter Olympics. 
A reporter diplomatically posed it this way: "Dan, you've won everything in speedskating but one thing ... " 
Jansen quickly interrupted, "And what would that happen to be?" 
It's not that Jansen doesn't know. He knows. The whole world knows. 
One of the defining Olympic moments in the minds of mil­lions is of Jansen falling in the 500 on a snowy Calgary day in 1988, hours after his sister died. Four days later, following his sister's funeral, he fell again while on a world-record pace in the 1 ,000. 
But while Dan Jan fell in Calgary. he flopped in Al­bertville in 1992. 
Jansen was a disappointing fourth in the 500 -matching his finish at age 18 in Sarajevo in 1984 -and a distant 26th in 
the 1,000 as his strong strokes 
and quick kick were lost in the 
slushy muck of Albertville's 
temporary and unsympathetic 
outdoor oval. 
Now he gets a fourth chance 
-and, no doubt, his last 
chance -to go gold. 
At 28, Jansen is the fastest 
speed skater in history, yet has 
no Olympic gold medal to prove 
it. This time, he has an intense 
desire to prove that he not only 
can beat the competition, but 
himself -and the demons of 
Olympics gone by and gone 
bad. 
"I've had some unfortunate experiences in the Olympics, and there's not much I can do about it," Jansen said. "A medal is something I want before I leave. I can't do a whole lot about the past, so it doesn't pay for me to think about it." 
Peter Mueller, Jansen's coach and a former gold medalist himself, said that rather than being destroyed by Albertville, Jansen has toughened his resolve to not be overwhelmed by defeat. 
The birth of Jansen's daugh­ter, Jane, named for his late sister, seven months ago also has altered Jansen's outlook, making him less reliant on win­ning races for contentment. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dam~ office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Hagg'\f College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is



Classifieds 
cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

as cabin counselors who can also  you are going that far) the weekend  Drive, Dual Floppies. Math  ALL SAILORS PLEASE ATIEND  **********  
NOTICES  instruct in various activities. Interviewers will be on campus  of Jan. 28. Very friendly, S$ for gas. tolls, etc. Call Brian x3043  Coprocessor. Great Buy at $1100 or best offer. Call 634-4 732 for  POP FARLEY WEEK 1994!!!!  Witness Jewish Medieval Torture come see BRIGHTON BEACH  
February 4th. To apply, contact:  details or leave message.  MEMIORS @8PM Jan 20 21 22  
USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard · 233-2342/10-6 M-Sat 9·3 Sun  Csmp Foley, 160 Windsor Court, New Brighton, MN 55112; 612-633­4881.  FOR RENT  GARTH BROOKS TICKETS FOR SALE!!  Looking for a summer job? Attend the SUMMER JOB FAIR-JACC  Washington Hall. Tickets $4 at Lafortune Box Office . ........ .  
Call 273-6548 and leave a mes­ Monogram Room, Thursday,  
GOOD OPPORTUNITY FOR  NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM $225.  sage with your offer and how many  January 20, 1-5 p.m.  Bring copies  
GRAD  MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO.  tickets you need!  of your resume.  
AUDITIONSII TIONS!!  AUDI­ STUDENT SPOUSE Professional couple seeks mature, responsible  AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306  JPW wknd confrmd reservation  Quality Copies. Quickly. THE COPY SHOP  
12th NIGHT 12thNIGHT O'Shag Great Hall ;Jan 19 & 20;  person to care for newborn in our home about 40 hrS/Wk. Must be  SUMMER OR FALL "94".LARGE 6  TICKETS  @Jamison Inn avail. for trade for cnfrmd hotel res. Stanford wknd,  LaFortune Student Center Phone 631·COPY  
7-9 pm; Questions? JOSH 232· 7109  non-smoker, provide 3 references, have own transportation. Position  BDRM HOME 2 BATHS. 1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. ALL HOMES  ****""***** FOR SALE • UU:IiUU4U  Sep29-0ct1 call Paul1-800-538­9363-(xt) 51 28  
ILOST & FOUND I  available end of March/beginning of April. Sand personal info to: "Childcare Provider· C/o 6910 N. Gumwood Ad, Unit 1 Box 14,  WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES SECURITY SYSTEM  SIX GARTH BROOKS TICKETS All tickets are together for the Sunday, February 13 show. Ca114-1337 w~h your best offer!!  SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­ We love you, Nina! Jill, Molly, end Susan HEY!!  
Granger, IN 46530.  ALL APPLIANCES  AAAA AAA AAA4AAAAAAAA4A:Ii AAAAni;A4444A AAA AA  TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  
LOST: Grey metal double cross earring between 2nd floor PW and North Dining Hall on 1/14. Call Bridget at 4-2965 if you found it. I lost a silver chin with a cross walking from Roalfs to Alumni in the  WANTED: SAILORS FOR THE SPRING '94 SEASON TO ATIEND THE MEET­ING IN 116 O'SHAG ON THURS JAN 20 AT 7 p.m.  1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 232 2595 1 Bedroom in 3BR house for rent. Great rent. 1 blk fm Angela & Portage-1138 Blaine St. Avail immediate.  WANTED: One student ticket for ND basketball game Monday (Jan. 24) for visiting friend. Please call/leave message for Brendan. Phone 631-8839 or 277--4847 any­time.  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800­786-8373 Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Huny! This will sell out!  Interested in the Merengue, Samba, Tango, and Fox Trot? Try the ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club! We meet Thursdays from 8:00·9:30 at the Stepan Center, starting this Thursday. All levels are welcome. Ques?  
snow. If you find it I would really  1-800-678-6386  Call Laurie 4-3490, Karen 4-2110,  
appreciate it if you would call me.  *"*SPRING BREAK '94­ or Daniells 284-4061.  
Todd # 1251  Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica,  Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica!  
$$$$ REWARD $$$$ For the return of my dark green long winter coat ! It disappeared from Club 23 last Friday. Please help me. I'm very cold!  Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREE! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. CRUISE SHIPS HIRING-Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World travel.  FOR SALE IMMACULATE 3 BDRM CAPECOD 4 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.  ... ,............................................................... NEED 2 TIX FOR GARTH BROOKS ON SAT, FEB 12. CALL X4020. AAAAA4A AAAAilcAAAA4 AloAA AAidoUAioAaUaAAA  Fly out of Chicago and spend 8 days on the beach! We have the best trips & prices! Includes air & hotel & parties from $399! 1-800­678-6386 Spring Break! Panama City! 8 days oceanview room w~h kitchen $119! Walk to best bars! Includes free dis­ Erotic Elaine, Roses are red, Violets are blue; South Bend is warm With lingerie on you  
-­ Call Kate x-1564 No ?'s asked.  Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext.  BULLA RD.$64,500.272-6306  PERSONAL  count card -save $50 on cover charges! 1-800-678-6386  Paul. Fil, and Paul  
$$$$ REWARD $$$$ for the return of my long dark green coat (Harry Levine Petite) that disappeared from Club 23 last Friday. Please help; I'm very cold. Call Kate x-1564 No ?'s asked!  C5584 CAMP THUNDERBIRD Camp Counselors Needed Resident Summer Camp for Developmentally Disabled Children & Adults. June 18--Aug 26  SPECIALIZED ROCKHOPPER, 18', SCOTI AT-4 HANDLEBARS, NEW SHIMANO DX HEADSET AND PEDALS, NEW SHIMANO CARTRIDGE BOTIOM BRACKET AND HYPERGLIDE CHAIN. 399.99, CALL BILL 684-5911.  Thank you Garth Brooks for making my dreams come true ... see you soon backstage. love, Kevin Janicki Lonely in London! I know nobody will remember my birthday. All cards graciously accepted. Meghan Kelley; 33  Florida's New Spring Break hotspots! Cocoa Beach & Key West! More upscale than Panama City/Daytona! Great beaches & nightlife! 8 days in 27 acre COcoa Beachfront Resort $159! Key West $249! 1-800-678-6386 SOPHOMORES!I!!  SUMMER JOB FAIR -JACC Monogram Room-Thursday, January 20, 1-5 p.m. Bring copies of your resume; discuss summer opportunities. Student Activities is now hiring for this semester:  
FOUND: YELLOW CASIO DIGITAL WATCH IN LOT Cl ON 1/17. CALL 287-5457 &. IDENTIFY. WANTED WORK OUTDOORS Minnesota Co-Ed summer camp seeks qualified individuals to work  Orlando, FL area 1-407-889-6088 $700/wk. canneries; $4500/mo. deckhands. Alaska summer fish­eries now hiring. Employment Alaska 1-206·323·2672 Help! I need a ride to Cleveland, Ohio (or all the way to Erie, Pa. if  EPSON electronic typewriter for 1 00$. Call Laszlo x4486 KENMORE FRIDGE 2.5 cubic ft. Active warranty. 634-4902 386/20 IBM Compatible with SVGA Color monitor, 24-Pin Color Printer, 2400 Baud Modem. 80 MB Hard  Leinster Gardens, Flat 5, London W2 3AN, England Hey Dork ATIENTION SAILORS Sail Away to 118 O'Shag on Thursday January 20 at 7 p.m-for the planning meeting of the Spring '94 seasonl!  Form turn-in for Sophomore Sibs Weekend is Jan. 31 in the Sorin Room from 3-6:30 p.m. Don't miss out on the opportunity to share Notre Dame with your sib. All monies, forms, etc. should be turned in at that time.  1 Ballroom Monitor 1 Building Set Up Crew and for the 94-95 academic year: 4 Sound Techs (to be trained this semester) APPLY NOW AT 315 LAFOR­TUNE!  

.---------~--------------------------------------------~-----------------·~---~~~--~­
Washington pulls upset of Stich 
BY ROB GLOSER 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Austalia 

Drawing from the past to focus on the present, Mary Pierce and MaliVai Washington won center-court matches Tuesday at the Australian Open. Hers was expected, his was a surprise. 
Washington pulled off the biggest upset of the first round, ousting second seed Michael Stich in four sets. Pierce, the women's ninth seed, won easily over Natalia Baudone of Italy. 
During his 7-6 (7-4), 6-3, 3-6, 6-2 victory, Washington let his thoughts wander back momen­tarily to the first round of the 1991 Australian Open -when he squandered a two-set lead and lost to Stich. 
This time, the Floridian didn't let Stich off the hook. 
"It actually kind of inspired me, because I wasn't going to let the two-set-to-love lead get away like it did back in '91." he said. "It didn't get me nervous or play a negative role." 
Fourth seed Stefan Edberg of Sweden, No. 6 Thomas Muster 
of Austria, No. 9 Todd Martin of 
the United States, No. 10 Mag­
nus Gustafsson of Sweden, No. 
12 Alexander Volkov of Russia, 
No. 13 Wayne Ferreira of South 
Africa and No. 16 Arnaud 
Boetsch of France all won first­
round matches Tuesday. 
Eighth seed Petr Korda of the 
Czech Republic joined Stich as 
an upset victim, losing in 
straight sets to Thomas Enqvist 
of Sweden. 
Women's second seed Aran­txa Sanchez Vicario of Spain dropped only four games while winning her first-round match and No. 10 Kimiko Date -the first Japanese player to be ranked in the world's Top 10­·lost just two games in advanc­
ing. 

No. 3 Conchita Martinez of 
Spain, No. 4 Gabriela Sabatini 
of Argentina, No. 5 Jana 
Novotna of the Czech Republic, 
No. 6 Mary Joe Fernandez of 
the United States and No. 14 
Magdalena Maleeva of-Bulgaria 
also won. 
The Australian Open, played 
on Rebound Ace hard courts, is 
sponsored by Ford. 
Washington took advantage of repeated mistakes by Stich, a semifinalist in Melbourne last year. Stich sprayed shots off the court in all directions and was forced into errors at the net by Washington's low re­turns. 
Washington, ranked 26th in the world, lost his serve only in the third set. Though Stich is one of the best serve-and­volleyers in tennis, Washington had a better winning percent­age at the net. 
"It's not like he won the match," Stich said. "I gave it to him." 
Stich appeared distracted at times, grumbling at line calls and fretting over several missed opportunities. His wife, Jessica, a German actress. rubbed her eyes repeatedly while watching Stich's frustrat­ing performance. 
"I didn't even know the score at times. I cannot speak for my mental strength out there," Stich said. "MaliVai played a good match. He hung in there and he didn't make as many unforced errors as I made. I just played a very terrible match." 
Pierce finallyfinds stroke 
By DENNIS PASSA 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia 
She fidgets with her racket, rearranging strings that don't need rearranging. Moments later, she tucks her hair back into her headband for the umpteenth time. 
Nineteen-year-old Mary Pierce, known as much for what her father does off the court as for what she does on it, is used to being closely ana­lyz·ed. And Tuesday night, in her first-round match at the Australian Open, was no ex­ception. 
Pierce's no-nonsense ap­proach -a 6-2, 6-1 win over Italian Natalia Baudone -was worthy of her world No. 12 ranking. Jim Pierce, her con­troversial dad who has been banned by the Women's Tennis Association from attending any of her matches because of his verbal abuse, wasn't among the 7,104 fans at center court at the National Tennis Center. 
Pierce was born in Montreal and now lives in Bradenton, 
************ 
RETURNING FOR FALL SEMESTER 1994??? 
A pre~registration deposit form and $100 (if required) MUST be mailed to: 
University of Notre Dame Cashiers Office Notre Dame, IN ·46556--5632 

DEADLINE: January 26, 1994 
If you have not received a pre~registration deposit 
form and are a continuing undergraduate student, 

forms may be obtained from the 
Student Accounts Office 

102 Administration Building 
************ 
Fla., but she officially plays for France -her mother's coun­try. For the past eight months, her dad has been banned from her matches, and he will con­tinue to be by the WT A until the end of 1994. 
With her personal problems seemingly behind her -she had a Christmas reunion with her dad that went well -late 1993 wins over Gabriela Saba­tini and Martina Navratilova and nearly $350,000 in earn­ings last year, Pierce has rea­sons to be happy early in 1994. 
But she admits the family controversy affected her game. 
"It takes a little off you," Pierce said. "A lot of people al­ways want to talk about it but it's good now because if people are going to write about me I want it to be because I am playing tennis and I'm winning. I do feel a lot better and I'm able to concentrate." 
She had no trouble concen­trating in Tuesday's match, striding to the baseline during her service and wasting little time between points. 
AFC 
continued from page 16 
The Bills had only 37 sacks, with Smith the runaway leader at 14. But they led the NFL in takeaways with 4 7, including 23 interceptions. It's not an -. overpowering defense Montana will face -he's already han­dled two of those in the play­offs. But it is opportunistic. 
Of course, no one makes more of his opportunities than Montana. 
"I like Joe and have great respect for him and what he has done," Bills coach Marv Levy said. "Without question, he is one of the best ever. He has great instinct, and he feels and knows the whole pattern on every play, and he's cool about it. 
..... 



------~-~---.---~------,
~----------------~-~-~­
page 12 

The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 19, 1994 




Con1petitive field will be headed by Russians and Swedes 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press 

Russian hockey honchos were 
feuding. Czechoslovakia split 
apart. Canada is searching for 
last-minute help. Sweden is still 
waiting for some players to 
showup. 

If they gave gold medals for 
togetherness, the United States 
would be the Olympic hockey 
favorite. Coach Tim Taylor kept 
his vow to make few changes 
since assembling his group last 
August. 

"That's our best opportunity 
to win a gold medal," he says. 
But turmoil is just another 
obstacle to overcome, like the 
defensive concerns of the 
Americans or the offensive 
woes of the Canadians. 

So at the Lillehammer 
Olympics, Russia again should 
be the team to beat with Swe­
den expected to pose the most 
serious threat. The next level in 
the 12-team tournament in­
cludes the United States, 
Canada, the Czech Republic, 
Slovakia and Finland. 

"The playing field is probably 
a little more level" than in past 
Olympics, Taylor said. "There 
are nine teams that could con­
tend for medals and probably 
five or six that could contend 
for the gold medal," including 
the Americans. 

But he rates Russia as the 
favorite. 

"[ am not in favor of forecast­ing the future," said Russian coach Viktor Tikhonov, leader of the last three Olympic cham­pions. "However, I always try to develop the psychology of a winner in my players." 
The Soviet Union won seven of nine hockey gold medals through 1988; the Americans took the others in 1960 and 1980. After the nation's breakup, the Unified Team, made up entirely of Russians, won again in 1992 with a 3-1 victory in the gold medal game over Canada, which had Eric Lindros, Joe Juneau and Sean Burke. 
The Russians lost in the quarterfinals of the 1992 world championships in May to Sweden, the eventual winner. But they regained the title last year, then won the Izvestia Cup 

Cancun Mexico  !..om$439  
Negrll Jamaica  rrom$449  
Montego Bay Jamaica  !..om$419  
Daytona Beach, FL  !..om$149  
Panama City Beach, FL  !..om$129  

On·campus contact:
~ 
Mike @634-4451 Angie @634-4659 Michael @634-1121

a=::
12Cl"'.,t!,""'-St.,tlhoca.,N'fl.ii8!'0 
l-800-648-4849 

BEETMOVEN'S 2ND(PG): 1:00, 3:00, 5:15, 7:15,9:15 GRUMPY OLD MEN(PG13) 1:15,4:15, 6"45, 9:00 IRON Wlll(PG) 12:15.2:30.500,7:30, 9;45 PHILADELPHIA(PG13). 1:30.4:45, 7:15, 9:45 THE PEUCAH BRIEF(PG13): 12:30.4:00, 7:CC, 10:00 TOMBSTDNEIR) 2:45. 5:15,7:45, 10:15 
MRS. DOUBTRREjPG13) 4:15, 7:15,9:45 THE AIR UP THERE (PG) 4:30, ?CO. 9·30 WAYNE'S WORLD II (PG 13) 5:00,7:30, 1C :GO 


in December. At Izvestia, both Russian teams went to the fi­nals of a tournament in which many countries were repre­sented by the core of their Olympic teams. 
There were two Russian teams because of a power struggle between rival groups. One represents the Olympic program, the other oversees the Interstate League. It's com­parable to the efforts of U.S. and Canadian Olympic pro­grams to get the NHL to free its players for the Winter Games. 
The Russian Olympic team, likely to consist of players who were on the top two teams at the Izvestia Cup, still should be powerful. And 1992 Olympic standouts Vyacheslav Bykov and Andrei Khomutov, both playing in Switzerland, could be added to an unusually young Russian team. -Several countries are waiting to get players now with their European clubs, limiting the time they have to practice as a unit. 

Sweden may add Hakan Loob, a still productive 33­year-old former NHL player, and already has 20-year-old center Peter Forsberg, who Wayne Gretzky called "proba­bly the best young player in the world." 
NHL expansion created more pro jobs and may have deprived countries of potential Olympians. 
"It hurts every country," said 
U.S. assistant coach John Cunniff. 
The tournament is. divided into two six-team groups. Each team plays the other five in its group once, then the top four from each half advance to the quarterfinals. 
Teams are seeded according to their finish in last year's world championships, although the Olympic squads can differ substantially from those teams. 
The United States is seeded 
sixth overall and third in a 
group with Sweden, Canada, 
Italy, France and Slovakia. The 
seeding order in the other 
group is Russia, the Czech 
Republic, Germany, Finland, 
Austria and Norway. 
The United States,.which lost 
the bronze medal game at the 
1992 Olympics to 
Czechoslovakia, finished fourth 
in the Izvestia Cup, losing only 
to the Russian Olympic team 
and Sweden. 
"We thought we played real well there," Cunniff said. "We feel we're going to be a young, fast team that's capable of scoring goals, but then the teams that seem to be able to shut down people usually do well at the Olympics." 
Taylor would have made an exception to his desire to keep the team together if Derek Plante were available. But the NHL rookie chose to stay with Buffalo, where he is the third leading scorer. 


COME TO LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS ON FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, AND TAKE PART IN THE ~ILAOO IIDlUNJK CONTEST! 
SIGN-UPS WILL BE TAKEN FRIDAY BETWEEN S:OO PM AND 10:30 PM IN THE RECSPORTS OFFICE. DUNKING WILL BEGIN AT 11:00 PM. 
RIMS WILL BE AT 8FT. FOR THE WOMEN AND 9FT. FOR THE MEN. 
· 
'I believe in the traditional 
Olympic ideal. I believe a player 
has to make a sacrifice," 
Taylor said. "These kids have 
been living together, training 
together, bleeding together, 
crying together, smiling to­
gether." -Canada's silver in 1992 was 
its first Olympic medal in 24 
years. This time it has an out­
standing goalie, Corey Hirsch, 
but lacks scoring punch. 
So last month it added Paul 
Kariya of NCAA champion 
Maine, who was named the 
nation's top college player last 
season. Glenn Anderson of the 
Toronto Maple Leafs, whose 
skating ability will help on the 
large international ice surface, 
also could be added. 
The breakup of Czechoslo­vakia created two good teams out of one. But at the Izvestia Cup, the Czech Republic fin­ished a disappointing third in. its group and lost to the United States 9-4. 

--------~------------------------------~-------------­Wednesday, January 19, 1994 The Observer~ SPORTS 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 


'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FoR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 



'<irlf£ 1994 
J\11-J\m£riran 
~££nan ~£fru£ 

~ 5Qloming!!! 
Ticket Distribution Notre Dame St. Mary's Thursday, Jan. 20 Friday, Jan. 21 No Lines Before Noon No Lines Before 5pm Distribution: 1-3pm Distribution: 6-Bpm JRCC Gate 1 0 Haggar Stud. Center 1 I D Per Person 2 Tickets Per I D Tickets are, as always, FREE 








---------------------------------------------------------~------------~--~----------------------~----~------------------------~, 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
Bulls 14-game home court winning streak keyed by defense, bench scoring 
ByRICKGANO Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
While Michael Jordan works on his batting stroke, the Chicago Bulls keep on winning -especially at home. 
Jordan retired from basket­ball three months ago and is now considering a baseball career, but the Bulls haven't slowed down. They've won 16 of their last 19 games and have a 14-game home winning streak. 
"TQey asked me when Michael retired and I said, 'Watch, Chicago is not going to die,"' said Houston coach Rudy Tomjanovich. 
In their last season at Chicago Stadium, the Bulls are strengthening a team concept that has allowed them to go 24­11, just one game behind last year's pace when they won their third straight NBA title. 
"We have to make the string last as long as possible," said coach Phil Jackson. 
"We're not good enough to look down the schedule and say, 'These are wins and these are tough games and these might be losses.' We are a team that has to play well to win and other than that, everything is unacceptable or luck." 
The Bulls are 15-2 at home and 9-9 on the road. With home games against Washington and Indiana later this week, the Stadium streak appears safe for a while. 
"A lot of people doubted us," said Scottie Pippen, who missed 10 games with a sore ankle and then returned to lead the Bulls on a 10-game winning streak early in the season. 
"We didn't think we would be playing at this intensity at this point. We're focusing on what we have to do. We're playing together and moving the ball. We're all relying on one another. Our offense isn't as static as it used to be. 
"I feel like we are one of the better home teams in the league. We play well at home and we execute better," said Pippen, who has assumed the role of team leader. He recently criticized management for not bringing in another player to help the team, making his com­ments after Eastern Conference rival New York acquired Derek Harper from Dallas. 
Chicago has overcome more than the loss of Jordan. John Paxson and Will Perdue have just returned from the injury list, Scott Williams hasn't played this season and Bill Cartwright is also on the in­jured list. Horace Grant has a sore knee and Stacey King has missed three games with a bad ankle. 
The Bulls have played strong team defense, spread around the scoring and gotten steady play from their bench, especial­ly Steve Kerr, Bill Wennington and lately Toni Kukoc, who's still adjusting to the NBA. 
Those factors have allowed them to compensate for the loss of Jordan in the first half of the season. The playoffs, when Jordan's incomparable skills would take over, could be another story. 
Donll1ook Nov ­


Kyle i~ 21i 
Welcome Back from Down Under! 
LoveI your P.E. friends 




Catholic Education The heart ofthe matter  
Sr. Lourdes Sheehan R.s.M U.S. Catholic Conference Secretary ofiducation  
Wednesday, January 19 7:00pm  
Hesburgh Center Auditorium All are welcome • Reue tion to follow  

_.. 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 






u"OE.NT GovEft.NME""'?
S1 

1\,:te. ~·~ :fo~<. ...lo? ~·" Ne.vE.R. 1-\EI'ltt> Or 
$TUDE.f'IT" Go'JE!'.NmENT?
-

CROSSWORD 
-~ 
-IH 

DAVE KELLE1T No. AH~f So 
~ou /IRE.

1\Re. ~ou "8EtNC, 
"Be.tNb 'SA~A'STIC.!

SP.l<C.A~'I'\C.. Ofl. Alle. 
l<u,t.t."'\!>iA,­\ ""'Du"'B'?\ 

ACROSS 31 Dungeons & 59 -even keel Dragons beast 60 Basic belief 
1 Outlet center? 
32 Row, e.g. 61 Ballooned
5Wheat-­
34 School grp. 62 Took off 
(crackers) 37 Judy Garland's 63 Shorthand, for 
10 _Stick around 
command short14 The last Mrs. 
40 Embroider 64 Fair to middlin'
Chaplin 41 Bowling lanes 
15 Storyteller of old Greece 42 The hunted 
DOWN 16 Opening for a 43 Feeds the flame 
1 Kitty sweat bead 44-Haute, Ind. 
2 Musical forte? 
11 Ballerina's skirt 45 Thursday's 3 Golden rule18 Strainer eponym word
19 Novelist 47ln a mo 4 Knight's glove Murdoch 49 February 5 Discrimination 
20 Colonist's command command 6 Will-reading 
55 Invitation word 23 "Piggies" attendees
56 Heretofore 24 Have a hunch mentioned 
7 "Um-hmm" 8 Award-winning 
25 Like crazy 57 Congressman science show
28 Waikiki dances Gingrich 9 Expedited 
-------------10 Places for titles ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 "The Velvet Fog" 

-
12 "The Little 





Mermaid" 
"The People, 
21 1982 Pryor film, with "The" 22Best­25 May honorees 
26 "Let Us Now Praise Famous Men" author 
27 Columnist Pearson 
28 Sharpens 
29--daisy 43lncite 51 Drive the get­away car, maybe 
44 Candidate for day care 52 Sole30 O.K.'s 
32 Athlete from 53 Claudius's

45 Butcher's cut 
Tres Coracoes, adopted son Brazil 46 Rambo, e.g. 

54 Sheepcote 

33 Brooklet 47 Early evening matriarchs 48 --a customer 55 Intimidate
34 Good engine sound 50 Winery fixtures 58 Brace 
35 Level 36"-sow ..." Get answers to any three clues· by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
38 TV host Pavich 5656 (75¢ each minute).
39 Job vacancies 




~ 
0 
C./:) 
~rl 
z 
0 
r r 1 


~ CLIFF ERICKSON 
~ PERFORMING 
65 \J~ 
~ ATYcLUB ~ND 
z ~ ~ 
3: ONLY ONE ONLYONE ~ MO 
• SPORTS 

Wednesday, January 19, 1994 

Inconsistent Irish hoops face no easy task on road 
By JASON KELLY Nii Nelson-Richards averaging 8.9, they Associate Sports Editor essentially have five players in double figures," MacLeod said. "They have 
It seems so simple. If you play well in such balance from an offensive stand­one game, you should play well in the point." next, right? Freshman point guard Shandue 
That's easier said than done. McNeil has 40 assists and just 21 
Consistency has been an elusive goal turnovers in his first 12 college games for the Notre Dame men's basketball with the Bonnies. team. 
"We played a solid gamn against In comparison, Irish freshman point Missouri (a 77-73 win) and then three guard Admore White has 66 assists and days later we were spotty against 63 turnovers in 13 games. Duquesne (a 75-63 loss)." head coach "We've been consistent in one sense," John MacLeod said. MacLeod said. "We had problems with 
"The only way we can be a good team turnovers last year and they are still a is if we get a full blown effort every problem for us this year." game, and we weren't digging in The high turnover numbers have against Duquesne like we did against begun to drop in recent games, but the Missouri." lack of offensive firepower continues. 
It's either Monty Williams or Ryan Which team will show up tonight at St. Hoover-generally not both-who lead Bonaventure? That's anybody's guess. the Notre Dame offense. 
The 5-8 Irish have shown plenty of Williams has been the top scorer in 1 0 both squads, somntimes in the same of 13 games this season and Hoover has game. been on top in ·two. Sophomore Keith 
"We have stretches where we arc pro­Kurowski led the Irish once, but he is ductive, but then we'll have a four or still not 100 percent after November five minute scoring drought that lets our knee surgery. opponent get away," MacLeod said. Opposing defenses try to stop either 
Eliminating the droughts will be an Williams or Hoover and let the other important factor tonight against a score his points. potent St. Bonaventure offense. The It has been a successful strategy in Bonnies are 5-7 overall and 1-4 in the eight of Notre Dame's 13 games this Atlantic 10. season. And until the Irish find another 
Center !larry Moore's 20.9 points per offensive weapon, it will continue to be game leads St. Bonaventure, and guards successful. David Vanterpool and Jeff Quacknnbush "Carl Cozen has been starting to perk 
add 12 and 10 points, respectively. up in the last three games," MacLeod 
Vanterpool scored 27 in a 64-G1 win said. "''d also like to see the forwards over Notre Dame last year at the Joyce begin to open things up because there's Center. no question we need more balance in 
"When you look at (forward) Garland our offense." Mance averaging 9.9 (ppg) and (guard) Easier said than done. 
By BARRY WILNER pionship and he won his third able to finesse Montana, so a Associated Press MVP trophy in the big game. big pass rush is essential. 
The Bills have been there every "How many looks can you ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. year since. give him that he hasn't seen?" Talley asked. "lie's the only
The Buffalo Bills know all Kansas City traded for about Joe.''" Montana to have him do exactly person I know who has played what he has achieved in the in one system for 16 years. lie
They know ~i' 

his history, playoffs. He led them in come­knows where the weak spots in 
recent and back victories over Pittsburgh a defense are. He doesn't get 
-distant. They and Houston. Montana, 37, rattled. 
know about made more mistakes than "He's the architect. es­

usual, but he completed the key sentially, of that offense. II e
the aura. passes and never let his new still throws the ball extremely
They know~~ team waver in either game. well. If he gets the time, he'll
ehxactly dwhtat J~e Montana 
e can o o beat you." 
them. "His name and his reputation So the Bills can't give him the And they know exactly what speaks for itself," Bills defen­time, which means applying the they have to do against him. sive end Bruce Smith said. kind of pressure that the Chiefs 
"We can't let Joe Montana "He's not just a great quarter­got on Warren Moon in last beat us," linebacker Darryl back, he's a phenomenal one, Sunday's win over Houston. Talley said as his Bills began probably the best who ever "He doesn't have just the first preparations for the AFC played this game. And he's just guy as his option, then he Championship game against that great a leader." throws the ball away," safety Kansas City on Sunday at Rich Montana guided the Chiefs to Henry Jones said. "I le looks for Stadium. "We're playing a 2 3-7 victory over the Bills in another and another and he against the best ever, a great Kansas City this season. Kansas finds somebody. He'll look left quarterback and competitior. City's defense was overwhelm­and right if there's nobody in Joe does everything that is con­ing in that game, holding the his face, and then the ball will ducive to being a winner." Bills to 43 yards rushing. That be gone. 
·­
Montana is seeking his fifth made things easier for "We need to keep our cover­Super Bowl title. The Bills are Montana, who was 18-for-32 ages tight; the best way to do after their first. But Montana for 208 yards and two touch­that is by getting pressure on 
hasn't been to a Super Bowl downs, connecting with ~ight him." since the 1989 season, when he different receivers. 
sec AFC I page II

led San Francisco to the cham-The Bills know they won't be 


More Gold? Speed skater Bonnie Blair looks to become the most decorated female skater ever in Norway. 
see page 10 

Lillehammer'94 
Inside SPORTS 

Funderburke Ohio State's inside force is starting to make an impact after returning from injury. 
see page 13 


Olympic hockey Russia and Sweeden are the teams to beat accord­ing to Team USA. 
see page 12 
Lillehammer'94 









