


cr. 
tr. 
cr. 
~ ~ 
z 
1-j 
~ 
z 

> 
Monday, September 26, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 21 t"' 
i1 NOTRE DAME·IN !a 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT tv1ARY'S 
Museum's completion sees dreams come true 
By ETIIAN HAYWARD 
News Writer 
After nearly four years of work, Gregg Behr saw his and the dreams of numerous other students come true. On Friday, Behr. a Notre Dame senior, spoke at the dedication of the Lincoln Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C., a project in­spired and initiated by stu­dents from around the country. 
With Senator Dennis DeConcini and Congressman Bruce Vento, whose support helped the project receive con­gressional backing, also in at­tendance, Behr spoke of President Lincoln's ideals of liberty and concern for human dignity and how "we must be the ones . . . who forward the legacy of Lincoln." 
"The museum met all of my expectations and more," said Behr. "To get up on the podi­um in front of my friends and family and all the other stu­dents ... was such an inspira­tion. It was something I'll never forget." 
The students responsible for the museum's organization and construction comprise the Lincoln Memorial Museum National Youth Committee. The committee was originally made up of 17 students from 16 different states, but now includes members from every state in the union. 
The project began in 1989 when a group of students, ac­companied by Arizona Teacher of the Year John Calvin, from Scottsdale. Arizona, visited Washington, D. C. as part of the Close Up Program, a pro­gram for high school students to visit Washington. 
While touring the Lincoln Memorial, the students began discussing President Lincoln's legacy and his inspiration to millions of American citizens and how they could commemo­rate this legacy. 
The students returned later that year with the assistance of members of the American Federation of Teachers and presented their ideas to mem­bers of Congress. Their project received widespread support and was well-received by the National Park Service. 
Since then committee mem­bers have repeatedly met and conferred with government of­ficials, historians, and project managers to gain input and support. The committee has also run a fundraising cam­paign called "Pennies Make a Monumental Difference" to aid in the museum's finances. 
Behr, a native of the Pittsburgh area, became in­volved in the project through one of his high school instruc­tors, Robert Will, a Pennsylvania Teacher of the Year. Will had met with Calvin and suggested Behr for the committee. 
Behr says he wants to fur­ther promote the project to show Notre Dame students, whose student government has contributed thousands of dol­lars to the museum, where their contributions have gone. 
The museum is located be­
neath the Lincoln Memorial 
and features exhibits depicting 
events such as Marian 
Anderson's 1939 Easter 
Sunday concert and Martin 
Luther King's "I Have a 
Dream" speech. 

The Observer/Maureen Lane 
A sharing of fire safety tips? 
A young Irish fan gets an affectionate hug from Smoky the Bear at the JACC during Friday night's pep rally for the Purdue game. 



Assaults occur on campus 
By LIZ FORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame Security is cur­rently investigating an as­sault/robbery occurring near the Eck Tennis Pavilion on Tuesday evening. 
According to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Notre Dame Security, a visiting pro­fessor was walking to his off­campus address when he was approached by two men who took his wallet and his book­bag. 

Hurley said the two were de­scribed only as white males. 
Hurley also said this is the second attack in this area with­in two weeks. An earlier inci­dent occurred on September 6 at about 11 p.m. when a stu­dent was confronted by two men who he thought had a stun gun. 
The student saw what looked like a bluish light when the two men walked toward him, so he dropped his book-bag and ran back toward the campus. 
Security arrived in the area shortly after and the book-bag was gone. 
Security has increased pa-· trois in the area, according to Hurley, who also said that stu­dents should take precautions when walking anywhere alone at night. 
"We would hope that anyone walking at night would walk with somebody else," he added. 
Anyone who had seen any­thing suspicious is encouraged to call Notre Dame Security at 631-8340 or 631-5555. 
More violence is expected in Haiti, officials say 
City authority collapses 
By FRED BAYl.ES 
Associated Press 
CAP-HAITIEN, Haiti 

Police and soldiers aban­doned their posts Sunday as authority collapsed in Haiti's second-largest city. Hundreds of Haitians, emboldened by the deaths of 10 armed men in a firefight with Marines, ran­sacked police stations, carrying off guns, identity cards, even musical instruments. 
Meanwhile, a Marine colonel backtracked on the official ver­sion that Haitians fired first in the Saturday night gunfight outside a police station in which 10 Haitians died. It was the first violent clash involving American troops sent to restore the elected government of Jean-Bertrand Aristide. 
"One of our patrols saw a gesture by an individual with an Uzi machine gun. He took that individual out and a fire­fight began," said Col. Tom Jones, commanding officer of the Marine Air-Ground Task Force. 
"The lieutenant shot him when he made a gesture to raise his Uzi," Jones continued. As to who fired first -Lt. Virg Palumbo, 24. of Windber, Pa., or the Haitian forces -"I can't say that," Jones added. 
The .shootings and the may­hem that followed showed how easily the situation can flare out of control and raised the possibility that U.S. troops may find themselves confronted with an unwelcome choice: watching Haiti sink into chaos or taking on the unwanted role of running the country directly -something neither the United States nor Aristide wants. 
Administration officials stressed that no military opera­tion is without risk. 
President Clinton, speaking at a church in Harlem, issued a statement saying: "It must be clear that U.S. forces are pre­pared to respond to hostile ac­tion against them and will do 
so." 

AP 
After the fight, police and soldiers abandoned the city's main military barracks, police station and about a dozen smaller posts. Word spread quickly to the streets, bring­ing hundreds out to trash the 
see HAITI I page 4A 


Nunn: 'won't be the last' 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
With the flash of a gun bar­rel ending a week of relative calm, senior officials warned Sunday that the firefight that took 10 Haitian lives may be a forerunner of more violence in that historically violent land. 
"This is the first bad in­cident we've had involving, directly, American troops, but it won't be the last," said Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Sam Nunn, D-Ga., a member of the delegation that brokered the deal with the Haitian military on the entry of U.S. forces. 
U.S. Marines killed 10 armed men Saturday evening outside a police station in the northern coastal city of Cap-Haitien in a battle ensuing after several of the men emerged from the station and opened fire on an American patrol. 
It was the first violent in­cident involving Americans after a surprisingly peaceful first week of the U.S. occu­pation and it drew quick com­parisons to hostile attacks against U.S. troops in Somalia. 
While administration of­ficials responded by assuring the American public and warning the Haitians that they were ready for more, congres­sional critics geared up for an attempt to legislate an early withdrawal from Haiti.President Clinton, in New York for a meeting with U.N. Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali issued a state­ment expressing regret for the loss of life and saying: "It must be clear that U.S. forces are prepared to respond to hostile action against them and will do so." 
Speaking at a church in Harlem, Clinton said the Haiti operation "helps to end human rights violations that we find intolerable ev­erywhere but unconscionable on our doorstep and offers them (Haitians) a chance at stability." 
see US HAITI I page 4 

, , '1 1 o •' • I I!'' r' 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, September 26, 1994 
The Land 



of the 

Lost? 
Have you ever won­dered where those kids who sell football pro­grams come from? You know, the ones that look like they belong in a Charles Dickens novel. I have never been able to come to terms with these Oliver Twist characters. 
For some reason I remember my youth being consumed by such things as Star Wars action figures, Barbie dolls and Choose Your Own Adventure tales-screaming "PRO­GRAMS" until my tonsils hurt was not a priori­ty. Of course, to be forced into such an occu­pation at an early age due to finances is one thing, and most often the only reason. And to this one's only response can be sympathetic. However, I have to wonder what type of a world it is that allows 18th Century London to surface on the steps of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center in 1994. 
There is no denying that tragedies do not discriminate and often children are hardest hit by life's meaningless blows. Unfortunately, the recent explosion of shows like Ricki Lake, Maury Povich, Richard Bey, and Jenny Jones-not to mention the bizarre subculture that it feeds off of-only exploit and make nor­mal the worst of our society. 
We get to the point where nine-year old chil­dren selling programs before a Notre Dame pep rally does not bother us. We get to the point where watching stories about pedophiles does not turn our stomachs. Whatever hap­pened to the days of frivolous youth and care­less abandon? When coming home from school was an adventure, not a horror? When, on a Friday night, nine-year olds are at slumber parties with other nine-year olds and not pawning off souvenirs? 
Maybe selling football programs in South Bend is the equivalent to having a paper route in suburban San Diego-all children need to know what its like having responsibilities. But I have to wonder what ever happened to household chores like emptying the dishwash­er and feeding the dog? What's the official age kids are introduced to the real world now? At what grade will elementary school teachers be forced to address sex education or financial responsibility? Does the book "All I Ever Really Needed to Know I Learned in Kindergarten" really help kindergartners? For the sake of most four and five-year olds, I certainly hope it does. 
I'd hate to think that fun has become a relic of the past. That Friday nights are now spent satisfying the American consumer's three-sec­ond attention span. Sure times are different and Star Wars action figures may be lost for­ever in the crawl spaces of the Millenium Falcon, but at least we knew what fun was and didn't become the latest victim of Jenny Jones. 
Perhaps it is just a symptom of the American media getting out of hand. Or maybe this is a realistic reflection of our times. Has our world changed so much in ten years to rede­fine the meaning of fun? Is there such a thing as fun for the average kid these days? Sure not everyday is a fabulous as Scooby-Doo or Daffy Duck would have us believe, but at least we believed. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News Production Liz Foran Elizabeth Harnisch Brad Prendergast David Diaz 
Sports Accent Finger Casey Jenny Shank Viewpoint 
Suzy Fry Graphics Lab Tech Robert Bollman Dane Kramer 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. AU reproduction rights are ·reserved. 
• WORUJ AT A GLA~GE 
Oil sheen reported off northwest Washington coast 
NEAH BAY, Wash. 

The Coast Guard mounted an air and sea search Saturday but could not find an elusive oil slick reported near a major wildlife refuge. 
The heavy fuel oil was found late Friday at three locations bounding an area about 2 miles by 3 miles, but it was later lost in the fog. 
"A sheen this large shouldn't just disappear," said Coast Guard Chief Warrant Officer Scotty O'Neal. "The wind may have condensed it, but it should still be fairly large." 
The Coast Guard called off the search Saturday night and planned to send two boats out again at first­light Sunday, even though the fog was not expected to lift. 
The sheen or thin film was sighted about five miles from Cape Flattery, at the northwest tip of the Olympic Peninsula, and about four miles north of the Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary. No oil was re­ported inside the refuge, Lt. Craig Petersen of the Coast Guard's Marine Safety Office in Seattle said. 
"We want to assume the worst case and react accord­ingly because of the environmental sensitivity of the area," Petersen said. 
The area is home to hundreds of sea otters and the 
Deaths total four in plane crash 
HONG KONG 

The death toll from the crash of an Indonesian trans­port plane rose to four Sunday as divers recovered an­other body from the wreckage in Hong Kong harbor, the government said. Both the flight data recorder and the cockpit voice recorder were found inside the tail section, which was pulled from the murky water Sunday. The recorders will be sent to Britain for analysis. The Ll00­30 Hercules crashed into the sea Friday shortly after tak­ing off for Jakarta with a crew of 12 aboard. Two people remain missing and are presumed dead. Six people were injured, and two remained hospitalized Sunday. Hours before the crash, the plane transported a group of 33 Vietnamese boat people being deported back to their communist homeland from this British colony. Among the survivors was pilot Soeyono Sanardhi, who said the plane crashed after an apparent engine malfunction. 
Brinkley would still marry Billy Joel 
RADNOR, Pa. 

Recently divorced from Billy Joel, supermodel Christie Brinkley said if she had it to do all over again, she would have married the piano man. "Because I was following my heart," she explained in the Oct. 1 issue of TV Guide. Brinkley said she's found what she was looking for her in her new beau, real estate developer Ricky Taubman: honesty. "Just because people can express them­
selves through their art doesn't mean they are great communicators in person," she said of Joel, who wrote a megabit titled "Honesty." "I came to the conclusion that you have to accept a person as he is, with all his faults, but when you can't, when those faults start to affect your life in what you perceive as a negative way, then you say you can't live with it anymore, so you don't." The couple were married for nine years and have a daughter. 

Monday, Sept. 26 Accu-Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


Anchorage 48  40  Columbus 76  60  Los Angeles 94  66  
Atlanta  75  56  Dallas  89  57  Miami  87  56  
Baltimore  77  66  Denver  82  44  New York  71  63  
Boston  67  59  Fairbanks  39  29  Philadelphia 75  67  
Chicago  61  53  Juneau  53  46  Phoenix  98  76  

Washington oil slick 
Aheavy fuel oil slick was found late Friday at three locations near a major wildlife refuge. 



The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 26. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 10 1994 A.ccu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure ~ ~ 
H L EB &"Sl [Til 0 IZl EJ ~ L-J. U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vl.a hsod~tad Press 
AP 

west of Cape Flattery in 1991. 
The Tenyo Maru leaked an estimated 100,000 gallons of oil, which contaminated the Washington and northern Oregon coasts. About 350,000 gallons of oil was believed still in its tanks. 
Deadly rival motorcycle clubs clash 
LANCASTER, N.Y. 
A clash between the rival Hells Angels and Outlaws motorcycle gangs at a drag race Sunday erupted in gun­fire and knife fights. Two people were killed and at least four were injured. Police had little information about the fight and were interviewing reluctant bikers, said Lan­caster Police Chief Thomas Fowler. Bikers were picked up along the New York Thruway as far away as Rochester, 60 miles away, Fowler said. Some were carry­ing weapons and bulletproof vests. Fifteen people were arrested on weapons and drug charges. Fowler said two were dead and that many of the injured were taken to hospitals by friends, making it difficult to determine how many were wounded. 
Gas prices drop by nearly two cents 
LOS ANGELES 
The price of gasoline nationwide fell nearly 2 cents a gallon in the past two weeks, continuing a trend that be­gan at the end of August, an industry expert said Sunday. The decline can be attributed to a drop in consumption, said Trilby Lundberg, editor of the Lundberg Newsletter that surveys 10,000 stations around the country. "We are out of the peak driving season. That's the main reason," Lundberg said. "We can also point to lower crude oil prices, which really began in July." The average price of gas on Friday, including all grades and taxes, was 122.10 cents per gallon, a decline of 1.86 cents since Sept. 9, ac­cording to Lundberg. At self-serve pumps, the average price of regular unleaded was 115.37 cents per gallon, mid-grade unleaded was 125.92 cents, premium un­leaded was 134.18 cents and regular leaded was 119.35 cents. The average full-service price for regular unleaded was 148.11 cents, mid-grade unleaded was 
156.33 cents, premium unleaded was 163.81 cents and regular leaded was 145.75 cents. 
highest concentration of breeding shore birds in the United States, said Fred Fellerman, state maritime commissioner and a board member of the Washington Environmental Council. 
The area is in shipping lanes at the western end of the Strait of Juan de Fuca, which connects the Pacific with Puget Sound and British Columbia's inland water­ways. About 30 vessels that burn the heavy oil -mostly tugs and large, ocean-going ships -travel the strait every day. "The likelihood of finding the source is about zero," Petersen said. 
If the spill was small enough, wave action could have broken it up, although water in the area was reported fairly calm with waves only about 2 to 3 feet, Petty Officer Brenda Toledo said in Seattle. 
O'Neal said he didn't believe the oil slick came from the Japanese fish-processing ship Tenyo Maru, which sank about 22 miles north­
--~--~--­~  ~-----------~--~-----­ , \ 1 I I\ I\ •' I l I I  I I I l \I I I I I I I I  
1 \ \ •, \, \ 1 I I  1 I  1 I I I I I I I I I  
Monday, September 26, 1994  The Observer • NEWS  page 3  



History of nursing explored in series 
By MARILYN ALIOTO 
News Writer 
In tracing the history of nurs­ing, military life and religious teachings have significant effects on the field of nursing from the beginning of the Roman Empire, according to Dr. Mary Donahue, Associate Professor in Nursing at the University of Iowa. 
Donahue's lecture Friday af­ternoon at Havican Hall was the first in the "Body and Soul" lecture series sponsored by Saint Mary's on health care is­sues. 
Donahue said that during the Crusades, men and women set up inns to administer to the wounded returning from battle. "These staffs are considered to be the first nursing profes­sionals," she said. 
In addition to the risin mili­tary dependence on nurses, Jesus' teachings also expanded the role of nurses, Donahue said. 
With the birth of Jesus and the wide spread role of Christianity, spiritual motiva­tion played an important part of the nursing field, Donahue said, with the influence of Jesus stemming form the Corporal Acts of Mercy. 
The focus in nursing was not only on the actual caring of the sick, but also "to be like God" and to reap the benefits of heaven, according to Donahue. This religious aspect also brought about the role of car­ing for the sick in religious orders. Religious orders then and now maintain the position of not only caring for the sick, but in the total healing process as well, she said. 


Interested in acting? Have no experience? Have lots of ex 




FAA's training crossed line 
By JAMES WEBB 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
Doug Hartman said he told the women he didn't want to be touched, but they did it any­way, fondling him while others encouraged them. Then they rated his sexual attributes, putting him at the bottom of their list. 
It was all part of sensitivity training sponsored by his em­ployer, the Federal Aviation Administration, he said. 
"The whole idea was to re­verse the roles, and it got total­ly carried away," said Hartman, an air traffic con­troller from Aurora. "They con­tended that this was how women felt every day of their life in the workplace and they wanted the men ... to feel what Hartman sued the FAA over the training on Sept. 2. On Thursday the controllers' union and the FAA settled a grievance 
erience? 
Come to the first organizational meeting of the 
2Jotre \Dame Student ~layers 
Wednesday, September 28 at 6:15pm in the Dillon Lounge For more info, contact Stephen (255-3545) or Mike (x1644) 



Be mesmerized by one ofthe world's greatest hypnotists 

Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 
Thurs. Sept. 29. and Fri. Sept. 30 at 8:00 pm 101 DeBartolo Hall Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office for $3 
over the workshops. 

Transportation Secretary Frederico Pena and FAA Administrator David Hinson are investigating the allegations. Some aspects of the training have already been halted. 
But the case highlights a larg­er question: How far should employers go to eliminate racial and sexual bias? 
"It's like if somebody beats you to change your behavior, you will change your behavior. That's a positive impact, but was it fair to beat you to get you to change your behavior?" asked Robert Hayles, vice pres­ident for human resources and diversity at The Pillsbury Co., who has studied these issues since 1970. 
Experts in cultural diversity said confrontation and so­called experiential techniques are not uncommon in sensitivi­ty training. But they said the degree of confrontation and the emotional level described by some FAA participants was highly unusual. 
Hartman and other FAA em­ployees say the sensitivity training was as degrading and demoralizing as the behavior it aimed to stop. 
Hartman said he filed a sexu­al harassment complaint after the workshop but was stonewalled by the FAA and ostracized by management. His lawsuit seeks an end to the retaliation and $300,000 in compensation, the maximum allowed. 
FAA managers and their sup­porters suggest the complaints come from disgruntled employ­ees opposed to change in an agency dominated by white 


great skills ..• 
Kaplan students get the most complete test preparation materials 
men. In the air traffic division, which includes controllers, 73 percent of employees are white males. 
Dawna Vicars Smith, head of the women's controllers asso­ciation, said positive results of the workshops outweigh any individual problems. 
"Did a class get out of con­trol, did a couple of classes get out of control? Let's address that. But let's not stop the training," Smith said. 
The vast majority of the 23,000 FAA employees who have gone through cultural di­versity training were satisfied, FAA managers said. 
Almost all the complaints center on workshops run in the FAA's eight-state Great Lakes region that were developed with Louise Eberhardt, presi­dent of Hart Performance Group in Baltimore. 
The three-day workshops started in the Chicago area in 1988, after complaints about sexual harassment in the agency, and by 1992 the FAA had started workshops across the agency involving 16 con­tractors. 
In 1991 the National Air Traffic Controllers Association complained that the workshops were too intense, too intrusive and were being expanded be­yond the test program without the union's input. 
In one exercise, women formed a gantlet and men walked through one at a time, while women made suggestive comments and -in at least one session -touched the men below the waist, participants said. 
Happy 20'h Eggs! Grow Up! 
Love, Big Joe, Dave, Phil1y-lllil1y, Pat, Aly11a, Jenny, Amy g Michele 

+7.2.' t * 
po1n s 
available including computer-analyzed practice tests, home-study materials, 
Classes start Oct 2nd 

a training library and teachers that 
CaD Today!

really care. Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 


KAPLAN 
• As documented in the May 1994 Kaplan LSAT Performance Study conducted by Price Watemouse. 


.I 1 I I I I I I It 1 t 1 I I I I I I I I j I I  -~ -~ r I I I I • I I j I I I I I I I J If If I If I  - ----~--------~--------­ -­------------~-­ 
page 4  The Observer • NEWS  Monday, September 26, 1994  

Lyle Lovett 
New Releases Are Always on Sale at Tracks in Campus Shoppes 277-8338 
**** 


Haiti 
continued from page 1 
property of those who had 
ruled over them. 
At the main military bar­racks, Haitians took everything they could get their hands on. even tubas and trombones. They played the instruments in the streets as crowds gathered outside. 
Some people fired guns into the air, but many appeared to be handing the weapons over to some of the 1,900 U.S. Marines in Cap-Haitien. One man dis­played tarnished bullets from an M-1 assault rifle clip, which he handed to Marines in an armored personnel carrier. 
"I give, I give!" he cried. Hundreds of civilians holding rifles over their heads paraded 

U.S. Haiti 
continued from page 1 
Clinton did not mention at the church the violence in Cap­Haitien. But Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. John Shalikashvili said Haitian mili­tary leader Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras had been flown to the port city Sunday and the U.S. side was making it "abundantly clear" what the consequences would be if there were further threats to U.S. troops. 
They now know, he said on CBS' "Face the Nation," "what the cost to the Haitians is for picking a fight with the Marines." 
The officials appearing on the Sunday news programs also sought to remind the American public that no military opera­tion of this sort can be risk-



WORLD SERIES 
AT TI-IE 
STUDENT 
FILIVI 
FESTIVAL 
SEPT-30 & 
OCT-1 7:30 & 9:45 A..'T TFIE, SN"ITE, 
to the bloodstained police bar­racks where the Haitians died and handed the weapons over to Marines. More than 100 ri­fles, machetes and rusted-out machineguns were surrendered along with uniforms and hel­mets. 
One civilian even handed over a skull with a bullet hole. 
"These people are really happy today. but they're still scared," said Lance Cpl. Darin Mendoza of Miami. "They're telling us they want us to stay for another 20 years." 
Marines set up checkpoints across the city. trying to keep the chaotic scene from turning dangerous. 
Near police headquarters, a group of Haitians grabbed a man and dragged him into a house, apparently believing he was an "attache," the civilian strongmen backed by police. 
free. 

Defense Secretary William Perry. who visited Haiti on Saturday, said he told U.S. troops there that "they have to stand tall for that mission and that they would have difficul­ties. We fully expected difficul­ties and the incident we saw yesterday, I think, is just typical of what we expected to see," he said on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
But House Minority Whip Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., said the incident underscored Haiti's similarity to Somalia, and said he will press for a resolution this week demanding U.S. with­drawal from Haiti "at the most rapid possible speed." 
Gingrich, speaking on CBS, said that after the firefight the American public doesn't "want to wait around for ambushes and for booby traps and for all the things that can go wrong." 
"He will be judged," said one tnan. 
In another case, a crowd ap­proached a Marine checkpoint and said they had captured an attache. 
"I told them to go get him, tie him up and bring him in but don't hit him," said Petersan Jean-Pierre. a Navy seaman at­tached to the Marines as a translator. 
Haitian army commander Raoul Cedras and Lt. Gen. Hugh Shelton, commander of the U.S. operation in Haiti, flew together to Cap-Haitien for a brief inspection tour Sunday. 
Col. Jones said the Haitian commander was seething. 
"Cedras accused us of atroci­ties and demanded my transfer and court-martial," Col. Jones said. 
By late afternoon, that obvi­ously had not happened. 
American troops left Somalia. another peacekeeping mission that began well, after the loss of 44 American lives, 30 in combat. A decade earlier in Lebanon, the U.S. attempt to keep warring factions apart ended with a suicide attack on the Marines headquarters in Beirut that killed 241 Americans. 
Nunn, also a guest on "Meet the Press," said he thought the Senate also would vote this week on setting a "date cer­tain" for U.S. withdrawal. 
Nunn said he opposed setting a specific date, but also warned against a broad mission of restoring democracy to a land that has had six coups in the last seven years. "They've not had the ability to have dissent without violence," he said. 

Yeltsin hopes to raise investment in Russia 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Russian President Boris Yeltsin began a five-day swing through the United States Sunday -a trip he hopes will encourage American invest­ment in his country's strug­gling economy. 
Yeltsin is scheduled to address the United Nations General Assembly on Monday, then head to Washington for two days of meetings with President Clinton. 
The Russian president arrived at John F. Kennedy International Airport late Sunday afternoon. Speaking in Russian, he told reporters he was preparing for a wide­ranging but difficult agenda with Clinton and hoped to make progress "step-in-step together." 
Yeltsin arrived in the United States after a relaxed weekend in the English countryside. During his stopover in the United States, he plans to as­sure Americans it's safe to in­vest in Russian business. He also planned to meet with political and business leaders in Washington. 
Yeltsin insists that Russia is ready to do business, dismiss­ing the complaints of critics who say investing in Russia is risky becau'ie of organized crime, conflicting legislation and unpredictable taxes. 
Yeltsin wraps up his trip Thursday in Seattle, where he will tour a Boeing Co. facility, take a turn on a yacht and spend time with an American family. 
At a joint news conference Sunday, Yeltsin and Prime Minister John Major said they still couldn't believe how much things have changed since the end of the Cold War. 
"I don't think as little as two, three, four, let alone five years ago, there would have been the possibility of such a meet­ing," Yeltsin told reporters. 
He flew to New York from Brize Norton, a Royal Air Force base 55 miles northwest of London. 
The two leaders and their wives spent the weekend at Chequers, the country resi­dence of the prime minister north of London. They went for a walk in woods and dropped in at a pub. 
Major said the weekend meeting, their fourth this year, "was useful and it was enjoy­able. It was both of these in equal parts." 
Yeltsin and Major said little about their talks on Bosnia, where Britain and other European powers are opposed to United States pressure to lift the arms embargo against the Muslim-led government. 


Lady's Cut & Style---··--···-·-·---·-·-····-·$12 Men's Cut-·--·-·----·····--·---···-·-·-·----···---$9 
Child Cut & Style .............................. $7 Clairol Color--·-·-···-···-·---········-···--·--$25 Highlight.--··----···----·----·-·-·-·---···$30-$40 Perms Helen Curtis-·-----··-·-···----··$36.95 
Redken Perms.·-----·-·-·-·--··----···----····$42 
910 E. Ireland Road 
Manicures ... ·-·-----·-·······---·---·······-----$1 0 South Bend Artificial Nails·--·-··-·--···-··--·-----····-·-·$50 
299-0900 
Salon Hours: 
Monday-Friday 9 a.m.-7 p.m. Saturday 8 a.m.-4 p.m. 
Tanning Hours: 
Monday-Friday 7 a.m.-8 p.m. 


Erskin Golf Course Ireland Road 
c;;r----------~ ·~ 
Cl) Sandy's Hair * ~ 
::::) Design Next to China Gardens 
Saturday 7 a.m.-5 p.m. 
1 Block West of Scottsdale Mall in Ireland Village Shopping Center 
10% DISCOUNT TO ND/SMC STUDENTS rl>rolessfonaf-Massail_e_, r----------tANNiNG_________, 
lI NOW AVAILABLE ! 1/2 Hr.......................$15l 1 Hr..........................$30 : 1-1/12 Hr..................$45 
I W/COUPON 
~ ~~ Expires 

299-0900 
: ~ESIGN 10-24-94 

L-----------------------------------­

SPECIALS 
7 Sessions...........$15 w;couPON 20 Sessions.........$40 w;couPON 
~~ Expires Call For Appointment : 
~!:SIGN 10-24-94 299-8333: L------------------------------------~ 
' ., 

Monday, September 26, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Facilities for juveniles overcrowded/run-down 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Most juvenile offenders across the country are being held in overcrowded, substan­dard facilities that lack anti-sui­cide policies and adequate health screening, according to a Justice Department report is­sued Sunday. 
"The findings should be a wake-up call for anyone in this 
GUIDE FULL COLOR FRONT 514.00 

country who takes a serious interest in youth issues," John 
J. Wilson, acting administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, said in a statement accompany­ing the report. "They raise the question of whether an appro­priate treatment environment is being maintained in many fa­cilities." 
The survey covered 984 de-
FRONT. I COLOR BACK 515.00 
CAll TOLL FREE 
1-800-823-7496 
M/C AND VISA ACCEPTED 
SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TO' 
TEAM 151 VENTURES. INC. 
10304 NW 7 COURT PlANTATION. FL 33324 PLEASE SPECIFY ITEM NO.. QUANTITY AND SIZE (L. XL XXL) 
FREE SHIPPING 
FL RESIDENTS ADD 6% SALES 'D'.X SORRY. NO P.O. BOXES VICE-PRESIDENT -ND ClASS OF '84 
tention centers, training frequently failed to provide ap­There were 24,000 attacks by schools, ranches. farms and propriate housing for suicidal juveniles on other inmates each camps holding 65,000 juveniles. juveniles. year and nearly 8,000 attacks 
It found that only 20 to 26 Nearly half of the facilities ex­on staff members. percent had adequate bed ceeded their design capacity The study did not look into space, health care, security or and only 24 percent of detained halfway houses, group homes, suicide control. youths were in places that met youth shelters, facilities for 
More than 11,000 juveniles all living space standards. youths tried as adults or those committed 18,000 acts of at­Larger facilities tended to be in secure hospital treatment tempted suicide, suicidal ges­most overcrowded and had programs. The researchers tures or self-mutilation, the higher juvenile and staff injury suggested studies in those survey found, and institutions rates. areas. 
U.S./N. Korea agree to talk 
By ALEXANDER G. HIGGINS "the agenda" of issues before averted the threat of interna­Associated Press them, said a U.S. official, tional sanctions this summer by speaking on condition of agreeing to suspend its nuclear 
GENEVA 

anonymity. program pending the outcome North Korea warned Sunday No progress was announced, of the talks. 
that U.S. naval maneuvers off but a U.S. official had said ear­A senior U.S. official, briefing the Korean peninsula threat­lier the second session would .reporters in Geneva on ·condi­ened to dash talks on opening be held only if progress were tion of anonymity, said the ma­the North's nuclear program to being made. neuvers were routine exercises. 

international inspections. 

Another session was sched­The talks resumed Friday af­Talks between the United uled for Monday. ter a six-week break. 
States and North Korea recon­vened Sunday amid reports 

North Korea complained, Key issues include inspec­
that differences between the however, about U.S. naval ma­tions of two military sites that two sides were widening. 

neuvers off the Korean coast, international experts think may apparently referring to joint have been used to store atomic 
Western experts believe 

U.S.-Japan naval exercises that waste. North Korea claims they 
North Korea has diverted 

began last week. are military facilities and thus 
enough plutonium from its 
off-limits to outsiders. 
nuclear reactors to make at 

A Foreign Ministry statement The talks also concern pro­
least one nuclear bomb. 

carried by North Korea's offi­posals to replace North Korea's Pyongyang insists its nuclear cial news agency said the nuclear reactors with modern program is peaceful, but for maneuvers were an attempt by reactors that produce less more than a year has blocked "U.S. military hard-line weapons-grade plutonium. 
international inspections it pre­

conservatives" to pressure
viously agreed to. 

North Korea. North Korea has refused to Such pressure will leave consider South Korean offers to During two sessions that last­North Korea "no choice" but to provide South Korean-made ed nearly five hours, experts resume its nuclear program, reactors and help finance the from the two sides discussed 
the statement said. Pyongyang project. 


Booz·AIIen Invites You to a Discussion on Consulting and Career Opportunities 
Wednesday, September 28 6:00 -8:00 PM University Club 


Our mission since 1914: to help clients confront the issues, seize the opportunities, and solve the problems vital to growth and performance 
Submit resumes to Placement Office on October 3 & 4 for Invitational List consideration 

Atlanta Buenos Aires Caracas Chicago Cleveland Dallas Dusseldorf Hong Kong Houston Jakarta London Los Angeles Madrid Melboume Mexico City Milan Monterrey Munich New York Paris Philadelphia San Francisco Sao Paulo Singapore Sydney Tokyo Washington, D.C. Wassenaar 
-------~-------------------------------------, 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, September 26, 1994 
New government faces Plague may spread in India 
By ASH OK SHARMA if antibiotics are administered plague cases among passengers 
an old problem: Crime 
Associated Press quickly enough. coming from India. 
Kundan Lal, a city The plague returned to India
By DONNA BRYSON "Families are destroyed by 
SURAT, India administrator, said Sunday that for the first time in 30 years
Associated Press the nervousness created by this 
An outbreak of deadly pneu­Surat's civil hospital reported last month when an outbreak of lack of safety and security. It monic plague eased Sunday in
SOWETO, South Africa three deaths and 36 new cases bubonic plague hit the neigh­
has got consequences which go Surat, but government officials
Nurse Mabel Ndlalane's turn overnight -a sharp drop from boring state of Maharashtra,
beyond the one incident where worried that the hundreds of
came as she drove back to her the rate since the first plague spread by rats drawn by relief
a crime is committed," said po­thousands of people who fled
clinic after counseling a child victim died Thursday. food sent after a 1993 earth­
lice minister Sydney Mufamadi. the stricken city could spread
who school officials suspected "The situation is settling quake. About 150 people have 
the disease to other parts of
had been abused. down," said Dr. Rajesh Parmar. been treated there so far, but
Fear of crime cuts across the India.
She stopped at a red light, a senior physician at the hospi­no deaths were reported.
lines in a country divided by Residents of the shantytowns
and looked up to fmd a gun-tot­tal. "Mortality has reduced. Rats multiplied in Surat after
race. Whites in comfortable 
that ring this city of 2 million,
ing teen demanding her car. The rush of new patients has recent monsoon rains flooded
suburbs surround themselves meanwhile, blamed local au­also decreased." parts of the city, ringed withwith solid walls topped by deco­thorities for not moving fast
Ndlalane was the seventh of But few were prepared to say shantytowns and open sewers.
rative -but razor sharp ­
enough to clear the animal car­
11 nurses at Dobsonville Clinic the outbreak was under control Unofficial death counts in
curlicues of wrought iron. casses and garbage left after
to be accosted by armed car­in Surat, and doctors and gov­Surat are as high as 300, and
A poor-man's version of those recent floods. 
jackers in the past two years. ernment officials stressed India some families reportedly have
barriers is found in black town­"This area of the city is a liv­
Clinic officials have responded still faces the risk of a plague cremated or buried suspected
ships like Soweto: barbed wire ing hell," said one man, Bansi
by stopping nurses from mak­epidemic. plague victims without report­
on chain link fences, or broken 
Mali, who cremated his
ing home visits. An estimated 400,000 people ing the deaths. 
glass scattered atop rough 
younger brother last week. "It fled Surat as authorities began Mali said his brother, 30­brick walls. 
is the municipality, not the
"Each time a person is at­spraying insecticides around year-old loom worker Navel 
plague, that has killed my
tacked, we ask ourselves: the city and handing out an­Mali, was one of many shanty­
Mufamadi, a former anti­
brother."

'Who's next?'" Ndlalane said. tibiotics. town residents to flee when
apartheid activist who became Pneumonic plague, a strain of 
"You're even afraid to do your Some went 160 miles south floods left huge piles of dead
minister of police when his 
the bubonic plague or "Black
work. You can feel in the atmo­to Bombay. where 13 suspected cows and garbage along the
African National Congress won Death" that ravaged 14th-cen­
sphere that there's something the country's first aU-race elec­pneumonic plague cases were nearby river bank. 
tury Europe and Asia, has so
wrong." being tested Sunday at Soon after returning to his
tion in April, said the crime 
far killed at least 51 people in Kasturba Hospital for Infectious brick-and-mud hut on Tuesday,problem could affect foreign in­Surat, a city on India's Arabian 
South Africa's rising crime Diseases. including 10 from Navel Mali developed a high
vestment and aid. Sea coast. Hundreds of people 
rate and the pervasive fear of Surat, said Dr. R. Kadam. fever and began to vomit, his
"I can't imagine somebody, were hospitalized.
becoming a victim is fast being be it a local industrialist or an Many of the others who fled brother said at their dilapidat­
Officials declared Surat a dis­
recognized as a major obstacle international industrialist, will­Surat are migrant workers who ed home Sunday. 
aster zone and rushed in mil­
to the new, black-led govern­went home to northern and Navel was hospitalized, but
ing to invest in a country where lions of capsules of antibiotics. 
ment's efforts to rebuild soci­central India. his condition deteriorated so
his or her investments do not 
ety. The plague, spread by fleas quickly that Bansi dragged him
appear to be safe," he said. 
that have bitten infected rats
At current rates, more than In the United States, federal out of bed without telling doc­
and from person to person by
93,000 robberies will be re­health officials said they would tors and took him home, where · 
Most South Africans live in airborne bacteria. can be cured 
ported this year, compared to monitor airports to identify any he soon died.
the struggling townships,
87,116 in 1993, according to 

police figures. Murders could where the jobI e ss ness and liieiiiiiii\iij;jj.iii;;iiiii;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
hopelessness that contribute to 
exceed 19,000 and rapes were 

crime are concentrated, and 
on pace to reach 31,000 for the 

where the former white gov­
year. Those figures represent 

ernment spent few resources to 
dramatic increases from five 

make them feel safe. 
Peace Corps Visits Notre Dame 
years ago. 

,-----------~~~--~~-~----------, 
,1


30Days 
Unlimited Tanning 
Around the Corner 
.SuqStudIo• '27:~;5LJt: 
Wednesday, September 28
L-------------------------------------------------­
Information Table Hesburgh Library 9:00 -3:00p.m. Information Session 7:00-9:00p.m. Montgomery Theatre LaFortune Hall 
Thursday, September 29 Information Table Hesburgh Library 9:00 -3:00p.m. 
Post Graduate Career Fair 7:00-10:00 
For details contact the Chicago 
Area Peace Corps Office at 
1-800-424-8580, ext.l 06. 
1

''''I l I I I 1 I I • I 1 o I I I 1 o 




CAMPUSES 
Monday, September 26, 1994 
Northwestern 
Honor society fraud at Duke 

students claim 
had never heard of the Sigma such.Possible scam Gamma Delta organization. Yet Kumar and SilversmithCD racism Though plans for the Penn argue that Wilson was aware
also involves 
State chapter were also un­that they were working with 
By MARCY DINIUS 
successful, Silversmith stated him, since they had obtained Campuses Editor 
Notre Dame, 
that the organization was the list of eligible students from again working to start up there. him. 
With the recent opening of a Penn State 
Officials in both student gov­They denied that they at­Blockbuster Music store at the ernment and resident education tempted to mislead students edge of the Northwestern cam­at Penn State also denied hav­into believing that the orga­
By MARCY DINIUS 
pus in Evanston, Ill, students ing heard of the Sigma Gamma nization was "Dean Wilson's
Campuses Editor 

questioned the store's policy of Delta society. honor society." 
placing special protective theft In response to a letter inviting Silversmith told The Chronicle casings on only rap and R&B students with a grade-point that Sigma Gamma Delta For now, the group is solely compact discs as possibly intends to form chapters at 12 administered by Kumar and
average of 3.25 or above to join 
other colleges this fall. He Silversmith, who have con­
racist. the Duke chapter of what was offered reporter Sanjay Bhatt a tacted a Pittsburgh attorney,With store officials citing such described as a national honor list of the student organizers at Bruce Americus, to advise them discs as the most-frequently society, 608 Duke students paid these schools in one interview, about establishing bylaws and$28 to join an organization thatstolen, the anti-theft measure but in a later interview, he answering legal questions. 
had yet to establish chapters atwas only taken with music that refused any further comment, Yet Americus has stated toany other campus but that had
falls under the rap and R&B including the other organizers' The Chronicle that he knew lit­
the goal of forming future
categories. names. tle about the organization and
branches at Notre Dame and at
Yet some students protested The original letter sent out at refused to comment on his pos­
Penn State University. 
that the action taken by the Duke by Kumar and Silversmith sible status as a national advi­Blockbuster store was racially referred to a "national policy" sor.
Two Duke students, senior 
motivated, suggesting that it Rohit Kumar and junior Jed and offered opportunities to As for the membership dues was racist to assume that peo­participate in "activities with collected for Sigma Gamma
Silversmith, formed the group other Sigma Gamma Delta Delta, Kumar and Silversmithple that listen to rap and R&B operating under the name of chapters at nearby schools" have accounted for the $17,024are also the type of people that the Sigma Gamma Delta Honor that already had chapters paid by the more than 600 stu­would steal. · Society, along with two other 
established. dents that joined.
members who were students at On the official society letter­While $2,586 was spent onNotre Dame and Penn State. 
In response, store managers head, a Dallas office was named postal expenses, office supplies, The two students have denied stated that other types of pro­as the site of the society's and an induction ceremony thatthat they attempted to defraud
tective measures were taken national headquarters. was held in April, the remain­
members of the organization of 
on other merchandise, with Yet the address listed was ing $14,438 was placed in a
any money or that they misrep­
security cameras, electronic found to be a mailbox at a certificate of deposit and a
resented the goals of the orga­
fields and a security guard pre­Mailboxes, Etc. store near checking account at a North
nization. 

sent to prevent theft. Kumar's home in Texas. Carolina bank to be used for One manager stated that if al­Yet in February, Kumar and future expenses. 
Though there is no actual

ternative CDs were stolen, then Silversmith sent out a letter office in Dallas, Kumar stated In previous years, Kumar hadthe same protective cases inviting 2,379 students at Duke that he intends to work there served as attorney general inwould be added to them just as inviting them to join what was after he graduates and would the Duke Student Governmentthey were added to the rhythm billed as "one of the fastest be able to serve as the society's and had run for the offices ofgrowing and most distinguished
and blues and rap compact 
administrator if it succeeds. executive vice president andcollegiate honor societies" indiscs when the threat of theft Kumar claimed that the let­chief justice. 
the letter. 

was perceived. 
terhead named an office suite Silversmith had served as
At the time of the letters
Other record stores in the instead of the mailbox number DSG executive elections com­
being mailed, the plan for the 
area have reported that there because he was instructed to do missioner and as a member of
establishment of the Notre 
seems to be no one type of mu­so by the mailbox service. Yet the Student Organizations
Dame chapter of Sigma Gamma 
sic that is a specific target of Delta had failed, yet the status Mailboxes, Etc. denied giving Finance Committee. Kumar such instructions. Both Kumar and Silversmith
theft. of the possible Penn State group Also, the senior associate have denied that they tried towas unknown. 
dean at Duke, Gerald Wilson, mislead students and that theyGenerally, area record stores Silversmith stated to The named as the society's advisor are guilty of mail fraud. 
have found that theft is more Chronicle, Duke's student news­on student government forms An investigation by Duke'scommon with popular CDs. As paper, that Notre Dame officials necessary for its establishment public safety department thatwould not allow honor societies a result, both Musicland and and mentioned on the letter serves as campus police is con­to be established on campus.
Rose Records near campus 
mailed to students denied that tinuing, as an investigation by Yet Joe Cassidy, director ofhave put protective casings on 
he had agreed to serve as an the Undergraduate Judicialstudent activities, at Notre
all of their compact discs. advisor to the organization. Board is expected. 
Dame stated to The Chronicle
Blockbuster does not place Wilson stated that he was
that Notre Dame has no such
protective cases on all of their never asked to be a sponsor -Chronicle reporter Sanjay
policy, since five other honor 
CDs so that customers can lis­and that he was unaware that Bhatt contributed to this article. 
societies are currently orga­
ten to them in the store. his name was being used as
nized on campus, and that he 
Presidents, medical professors paid top dollar 

Medical profs pass $1 million 
According to a survey con­$325,000 bonus when he left ducted by the Chronicle for the university after 12 years of Higher Education, John Silber service. The board at UPenn of Boston University is the decided to award him the highest-paid private-college bonus as a reward for his con­president. The survey included tinued service without taking 420 private colleges in the leave on sabbatical. United States. 
A $300,000 bonus boosted The survey also revealed that Silber's salary up to $776,963 6 7 university presidents re­for the 1992-93 academic year. ceive between $200,000 and The decision for the bonus was $300,000 and 62 presidents made by the BU Board of receive between $17 5,000 and Trustees. The board members $200,000 annually. based their decision on "his performance and leadership However, the survey found during his twenty-three-year that the highest paid university tenure." employees are not the presi­
dents. Instead, the survey re­
According to the federal tax vealed that physicians affiliated form containing the universi­with schools of medicine are ty's salary data, the president the highest paid on most col­is entitled for an extra year of lege payrolls. pay for every five years served. Out of the top ten best-paid 
Coming in at second place for employees, only one is not highest paid among college involved with medicine. presidents is the University of Pennsylvania's Sheldon -Information from the Kackney, who received a Chronicle ofHigher Education. 

Eiitaeeor~diJl~ to Agenbroad, was probably feet t and 3000 Agenbroad estimat­age of the bones to be 
11:\J'QWld 75.000 years old. 
e brothers said they ,.....~~~.-their inventive streak early age by disman­eir toys and later ~~~~ding robots. 

ation from the of Higher 


• I I I 1 I I o I I 1 j I Iff''' 1 I I 

VIEWPOINT 
• WINTER Of MY DISCONTENT 

f r. 
Dorm cable: I want my MTV! and CNN 

• DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
-fHc A55EMf3la) CITIZENRY COUUJ 5CARt:a.-Y Ba.IEV/3 THEIR&ARS ...  FIRSTOF AU, IN THE f}f3S/8N OF 7Hf3 Sll<UCWR/3, WbU R&SPU.T THE UNIQUE AGRAR­IAN CHARACTER OF lH/3 '3UR.­ROUNOING aJUNTRY51PE-TO THE POINTOF PLANT!/116 SOY­8EAN5 ON THE ROOfl  


''The government of the 
United States is not, in any sense, founded on the Christian Religion." 
-George Washington 1796 
page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayrcr Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ....•............. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Elizabeth Regan Conuoller..................................... Kristen Martina 
Monday, September 26, 1994 
Not surprisingly, the battle over cable television In the dorms is once again raging on our campus. According to last Thursday's Observer, the Student Government will be approaching the Board of Trustees with a pro-cable report on September 29. While the impending "debate" and acrimony that will inevitably follow in the wake of this report will surely provide some of the best comedy of the year, I simply can 
Chris Kratovil 

not understand why the installation of cable in residence halls is in any way shape or form controversial. A brief examination of the arguments from both sides seems to put this issue in context and reveals the justifiable need for expanded access to televised news, entertainment and sports coverage on this campus. 
The objections put forward by oppo­nents of cable are fairly straightforward and have been floating around for sever­al years now. Foremost among their arguments is the notion that allowing every student access to cable in their room would somehow impair the "acad­emic atmosphere." Stated in less euphemistic terms, they maintain NO students are irresponsible and mindless sheep who will abandon their text books at their first chance to watch 24 hour MTV and QVC. I find this line of reason­ing to be somewhat patronizing, offen­sive and borderline absurdist; consider­ing the fact that most of us excelled in high school with the presence of cable in the home. Individual students could choose not to pay for cable if they 

The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
~COULD TRY StNDING HIM OUT TO OMPAIGN fOR 
R~PUBLIOOS ... 

thought it would detract from their aca­demic performance..Further, if this thinking is valid then why not carry this whole concept of en logo parientes to its logical extreme and ban television and whatever else those enlightened souls In ·Student Affairs deem capable of "dis­
tracting" us? 
A second major argument against 
allowing cable is that it would introduce 
programming contrary to Catholic ideals 
and beliefs. The problem with this 
objection is that cable is already avail­
able on campus in lounges and some 
rectors' rooms. How is this corrupting 
influence any less potent if watched in a 
group, and if it is so anti-religious etc. 
then why do the rectors permit it in 
their rooms? More importantly, non­
premium cable channels are subject to 
the same basic FCC content rules as 
broadcast stations. 
Perhaps the most ridiculous argument 
put forward against cable is that its 
introduction would somehow lessen the 
sense of dorm community by liberating 
people from watching as a group in the 
lounges. Hmmm...well in light of the fact 
that there is only one cable lounge in a 
dorm the size of Flanner it would seem 
to me that fights over what to watch are 
far more common than any sort of bond­
ing experience, not to mention the fact 
that TV viewing is hardly the most com­
munal of actions. 
Finally, such practical concerns as 
which capable company to utilize and 
the "'fairness" of some dorms (e.g. 
Flanner and Grace) being already wired 
have been raised. I can not imagine that 
finding a willing cable company could be 
a p.;oblem; what sane business would 
turn down a potentially decades long 
lock on several thousand eager cus­
tomers, especially with other new mar­
kets for cable being few and far 
between? In answer to the latter point, 
no one questions the relative "fairness" 
of some dorms having air conditioning 
or bigger rooms or preferable locations, therefore why should cable be any dif­ferent? Also, it would be just a matter of time before every hall was wired. 
The simple reality of our situation is that this campus is isolated and it is therefore hard to stay in touch with the beat of our national pulse. Cable TV would help rectify this situation; it is considerably easier to keep up with cur­rent events and cultural trends when one has 24-hour access to CNN, Headline News and C-Span, which, as a government major, I find as important as any textbook. 
Secondly, although the South Bend winter offers innumerable outdoor opportunities, the thought of staying in one's room· and having several dozen channels to "surf' has a certain appeal. Cable would seem to be a valuable ally in combating the impending onset of Seasonal Depression Syndrome. The entertainment options available to most NO students are already limited by the combination of isolation and climate, so it seems strange to exacerbate this situ­ation by denying us something as readily accessible as cable. 
Further, cable is an evolving medium. Mergers between cable companies and telecommunications conglomerates are an increasingly common occurrence. More and more communication services and user options will soon be delivered exclusively via cable. Within the foresee­able future it is conceivable that cable will be as necessary as a telephone for everyday living. 
Much of the quality programming available on TV today is transmitted exclusively on cable. Colleges all around the country ranging from giant state universities to small liberal art schools have recognized this fact and have elect­ed to present their students with the cable option. It is past time for Notre Dame to follow suit. 
Chris Kratovil is a sophomore major­ing in Government and International Relations. He lives in Flanner Hall. 



A bevy of backs revive Notre Dame running attack 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Spons Editor 
Notre Dame can play 52 minutes of perfect football and its head coach will concentrate on the missing eight. 
Randy Kinder, Ray Zellars and Emmett Mosley may have career rushing days but lack of execution is the hot topic at post-game press conferences. 
Welcome to the world of Irish coach Lou Holtz and the aftermath of Notre Dame's 39-21 win over Purdue Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Irish rushed for 428 yards and three scores, held Purdue to only 146 yards on the ground (209 below its average) but still the Irish are only allowed to focus on the gray ar­eas, which were matched only by the rainy South Bend sky. 
"It's always good to win, but the last eight minutes left a bad taste in my mouth, "Holtz said. "The last eight minutes were not very pleasant, but the first 52 were very good." 
Good enough for Notre Dame (3-1) to win it's third game of the season and Purdue (2-1), missing the softness of games against Mid­American Conference foes, surrendered their first loss of the season. 
see IRISH I page 2 
---~-----­

Randy Kinder (top left), Emmett Mosley (top right} and Ray Zellars helped revive Notre Dame's struggling ground game. 

--~~-­
• JOCK STRIP 
Zellars' run a rambling work of art 
I
t was part Bettis and part Baryshnikov. Bulldog and ballet 
dancer. Power and poetry. Ray Zellars leaped, 
rammed and rumbled 62 yards for a through the slop 
Saturday against AssociateSports
Editor

Purdue, a run reminis­cent of his superstar predecessor, Jerome Bettis. With a touch of Baryshnikov. 
Purdue defensive back Reggie Johnson dared to challenge Zellars in the open field. 
Big mistake. Zellars bowled him over. Like Bettis. Johnson is probably still scrubbing the 
grass stains off the seat of his pants. 
"Our young players learned that, to tack­le Zellars, you've got to plant your hat and knock him on his can," Purdue coach Jim Colletto said. 


Joe Hagins was the next victim. Already sprawled on the slippery turf, he 
see KELLY I page 3 

By MIKE NORBUT  they did on Saturday.  
Associare Spons Ediror  The Notre Dame first-teamers stymied  
In the first three quarters of Saturday's game, the Irish defense allowed Purdue only seven points. It  a powerful Purdue offense in the first half. giving up just 80 yards of total offense and five first downs, most of which came on the Boilermakers' sec­ 
gave up just 266 yards of total offense in the game. After three lackluster performances, it looked like it had fmally come of age in Notre Dame's 39-21 victory over the Boilermakers. But Purdue ended up with three touchdowns instead of one. They scored 14 points in the final half of the fourth quarter. Just as soon as the defense had  ond quarter scoring drive. And the defense managed to stop the famous Purdue running game. "We took this as a personal chal­lenge," Irish cornerback Bobby Taylor said. "We read in the paper all week how great their running game was. We made up our minds we were going to shut that running game down." The Boilermakers marched into Notre  
gotten back on its feet and planted them  Dame Stadium as the third-ranked rush­ 
firmly in the turf, a shock like this may have tripped them up again. "It's always good to win, but the last eight minutes left a bad taste in my mouth," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "The last eight minutes were not very pleasant, but the first 52 were very good." The fmal eight minutes of the contest saw the Boilermakers rack up 132 yards of offense en route to their two late scores. But of course, they came against Notre Dame's inexperienced second and third teamers, which is s~en as an insult to the Irish reserve units and to Holtz. "We're weak on depth," he continued. "I'm eager to see how our team will respond to this." But although depth is a key asset to have, it is not always necessary when the starters are doing their jobs, like  ing school in the nation after bowling over Ball State and Toledo previously. They marched out with only 146 yards on the ground, not even half of their usual game average of 354. Purdue's featured backs, Corey Rogers and Mike Alstott, were coming off a game a week ago that saw each of them achieve the century mark in rushing. This week, Rogers got only 88, while Alstott could gain just 65. And again, much of this was against the reserves. The three second-half turnovers that the Irish defense forced, however, were not a credit to the bench players. They came in the third quarter when the game was still in doubt. And the game soon became certain after the Irish of­fense converted them into thirteen points, making the score 32-7. "Turnovers are a big part of a game  The Observer/Jake Peters Jeremy Sample smashes Purdue running back Joe DiBella. played in weather like this," Taylor con­Stefan Schroffner field goal. tinued. "We made an effort to cover The third turnover came after senior everything they threw at us and it Brian Hamilton forced Alstott to fumble turned out pretty well." deep in Purdue's end, and safety Travis Taylor was a main reason for Purdue Davis fell on the loose ball. This too led losing the football on three separate to a Schroffner field goal. occasions. The junior forced a fumble Three turnovers. Thirteen points. late in the third quarter that was re­These are statistics that didn't show up covered by Alton Maiden. It led directly after Notre Dame's first three games. to fullback Ray Zellars' game-breaking Maybe this is a sign that the defense, 62-yard touchdown run. or at least the starters on defense, are Taylor also made a hit on a coming around. The reserves still have a Boilermaker receiver that jarred the year to get their feet under them. ball loose right into the awaiting arms of But that's better than a year and the linebacker Jeremy Sample. This led to a first three games of next season.  


.....-----------~-----~ ~~ ~---~-,-~ 
t I I • 1 • t I I I It I 1 I I It It It I I I I I/ • l I I I I t tIt I I 1 I 1 t • t I I I 1, I, J 1 
r 
r 
Monday, September 26, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
Finally a dominating Notre Dame defense 
Irish rise to 'personal challenge, ' at least until the final eight minutes 
• GRADED POSITICJN ANALYSIS 
QUARTERBACKS--8+ 
Powlus bounced back from his Michigan St. interception-fest with a stable, error-free effort.. He did what he was asked to do well, although that wasn't all that much 
RUNNING BACKS--A 
No Becton. No probelm. Randy, Ray, and Robert ran, rumbled, rambled, and raced through the rain to revive the revered running game. Emmett wasn't too bad either. 
RECEIVERS--8+ 
See quarterback. When called upon, they responded. Stafford's snare was superb. Unsung aspect was their downfield blocking that really sprung the backs. 
OFFENSIVE LINE--A-
Any time you run for 428 yards, no matter who the backs the line did the job. Saturday was no exception. Struggled somewhat in red zone however. 
DEFENSIVE LINE--8+ 
Paul Grasmanis continues to shine in the trenches, having a sack and another hit in the backfield. Brian Hamilton and Oliver Gibson were their usual space-eating selves. 
LINEBACKERS--8 
Justin Goheen set the tempo for the defense early with his inspired (to say the least) play. Bert Berry and Renaldo Wynn again showed inconsistency, they combined for just 3 tackles. 
SECONDARV--8 
Bobby Taylor caused two turnovers. No surprise there. His man did catch .a pass. T_hat is surprising. Pass coverage didn't have the benefits of consistent QB pressure, but were solid enough nonethe­less. 
SPECIAL TEAMS--8+ 
Granted, Stefan Schroffner and Scott Cengia each missed a field goal, but Cengia's miss was nullified by a penalty, and they did put four through the upri~hts. Returns were nothing to speak of, but kick coverage was much 1mporved. 
COACHING--8 
Hol!z do~sn't lik,e to ru~ up the sco~e, but he must do a better job keepmg h1s teams emot1ons up late m the game. Overall, nice safe gameplan, that shocked no one but got the job done. 
GAME G.P.A.--2.89 
With Stanfo~d's see-thr~ug_h defense ~p next week, it was good to 
get the runnmg game chck1ng. Work 1s needed on goal-line offense 
but a week and a weak Cardinal defense should take care of that. 
Just another small step back into national contention. 
-TIM SHERMAN 

Irish 
continued from page 1 
In the dreadful eight minutes that Holtz will surely hang heavy over his squad, the Irish reserves gifted Boilermaker Corey Rodgers a pair of touchdowns blemishing a 39-7 drubbing to that point. 
Also earning the ire of Holtz was the goa­line offense. Notre Dame's offense fought its way inside the Purdue 20-yard line but off­set three touchdowns with four field goals and another attempt that hit the upright. 
"Goaline offense is a big concern, a major concern," Holtz said. "We got down there a multitude of times and couldn't get what we needed." 
The Irish didn't need much against a Purdue squad that entered the game ranked third nationally in rushing offense. Sixty-two times Notre Dame attacked the Boilermakers on the ground. Fullback Zellars led the way (14 attempts, 156 yards) sophomore tailback Kinder added the early burst (16 carries, 143 yards-122-yards in the first halO and fresh­man Mosley was the surprise (10 tries, 81­yards) after converting from the flanker posi­tion. 
"Some of them run outside better. Some run inside." Holtz said about his trio of backs. "It was going to be tailback by com­mittee. We did that right from the start. We felt we'd always have a fresh tailback in there." 
Zellars was the freshest on his 62-yard scoring run late in the third quarter which put the game out of reach at 32-7. After bursting around end, Zellars plowed over defensive back Reggie Johnson, hurled over Joe Hagins and then sprinted to the endzone. It was a Ia Reggie Brooks against Michigan in 1992 and deja vu' Irv Smith against Indiana the year before -a sterling individual effort that will likely introduce a series of plays of the year in college football. 
"I heard a lot about the run on the side­

lines," Zellars said. "I was in a zone myself, 
and I don't remember much." 
It will be remembered by Purdue, as will the two turnovers that they committed in the third quarter which ended any hopes of mak­ing this a game. Linebacker Jeremy Sample had an interception and Travis Davis recov­ered a fumble. 

Sophomore quarterback Ron Powlus looked much a like a man standing aimlessly in the rain. He was asked to throw only 14 times, completing nine for 111 yards. His brightest moment came on a 15-yard scoring pass to Charlie Stafford at the end of the first half, when the senior wideout made a circus catch of a Powlus lob. 
"That touchdown before half was a killer," Purdue coach Jim Colletto said. "We had a chance to keep it out of the endzone and we didn't do it." 
Enough of the positives. 
The kicking game is sure to give a Holtz a migraine. The Stefon Schroffner, Scott Cengia place-kicking by committee was as successful Saturday as /shtar and about as funny for Holtz. 
Cengia missed a PAT and Schroffner botched a 21-yard field goal on Notre Dame's opening drive. 
"No, I don't have anything to say about the kickers or the punters," Holtz said when asked for a comment about the kicking game. "I just hope some young kicker at some school watches all of our games." 
Notre Dame's disappearance inside the 20 also has Holtz ranting, as the desire of his of­fense is to blame. 
"You've got to be more hungry when you get inside the 20," Center Mark Zataveski said. "They're throwing more guys in the box and your man on man, you've just got to smell the goaline. That is something we need to work on." 
One area Notre Dame got a little help was in the rankings. Michigan's loss to Colorado and Miami's slip at home against Washington lessens the number of teams with unbeaten records who sit ahead of the No. 8 Irish. 
''I'm sure everyone believes in the back of their heads that we can still win the national title," Zataveski said. "But it would be differ­ent if we hadn't lost to Michigan and we could control the situation. We can't. And we need to keep working and getting better." 
-------~--------------~----------------..... 
• • t I o' I 1 o I, I I 1 I I/ 1 1 
page 3 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Monday, September 26, 1994 
Resurgent running game powers Irish 
Mosley makes good on promise to Holtz 
By TIM SHERMAN for Mosley, he was quick to Assistant Sports Editor grab the prized pigskin. "Coach Holtz asked me if I 
By the time Friday night rolls was giving it to the referee af­around, the majority of the ter the play. I wasn't. He kept preparation is done. me out awhile but I got another 
The films have been watched, opportunity to give the ball to plays have been run until the ref. He has faith in me." exhaustion. After Saturday's performance 
The gameplan is complete. by the backfield, that faith has 
But one key element in the only been solidified. team's prep is still unfinished "Our key to victory is no for Lou Holtz _getting back to a turnovers," said Randy Kinder 
who blazed his way to 143 ofpersonal level with his players. 
the team's 428 yards. 
Over the years, Holtz has found 
The Observer/Jake Peters

"It is something we can't'
that a brief chat with each play­
Ray Zellars breaks his fall during his remarkable 62-yard touchdown run.
stress enough." 

er on Friday can do wonders to settle a young man after an The stress was plenty enough playing. any time we touch the The added responsibility was intense week of practice. yesterday as the Irish toted the ball. there is a chance of find­anything but a burden. So every Friday night, he rainy rock 62 times without los­ing the end zone," said Kinder. "I know the duties," said the strolls through the halls of the ing a fumble. He was just one of a multi­senior fullback. "I just had to team's hotel, stopping at each They not only carried the balr tude of backs who found the make the transition." often, the carried it a long way. gaping holes. The entire running attack
room with a quick knock. For young Emmett Mosley, "The running game had some The play that stands out most seemed to be able to adapt to
,, 
that rap on the door had a bit rhytym today," said a some­was obviously Ray Zellars' rum­the conditions just as nicely on more significance last Friday. what satisfied Holtz. "The ble of 62 yards. Saturday, but despite all the 
"Coach Holtz asked me what backs ran well and they pro­"That was one of the best success, there was one glaring my favorite play was and I told tected the ball. We ran it very, runs I have ever seen," said an weakness, namely, scoring in him," said the 5-foot-9, 179-very successfully." awed Mosley after the game. the red zone . pound Mosley. "He promised Much of this success should "Ray Zellars is a real man." On four occasions, Notre me he'd run it if I promised not be attributed to an emerging Holtz praised him also. Dame got inside the 20, only to to fumble. I promise." offensive line. "He is a very positive leader. have to settle for a field goal. 
It turned out to be a promise "The line did a very fine job He gives a tremendous effort. I The question begs -why did a today," said a grateful Mosley. trust him completely." team that picked up nearly
Mosley couldn't keep. On that play, a counter on the "They worked hard today." With Lee Becton sidelined, seven yards each time they car­second play from scrimmage, Kinder also reaped the sub­not only did the Zellars' role on ried the ball struggle so mighti­Mosley scooted for 11 yards. stantial benefits. in the forms of the field become a bit more ly when it counted the most? 
The Observer/Jake Peters But as he was going down, the two easy touchdown runs. urgent, off the field, he is now Nobody knows. Robert Farmer was another Irish ball popped loose. Fortunately "With the way they've been one of the offensive captains. At least, not yet. back to shine on Saturday. 


TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 
1. Florida (31) 3-0-0 1509 1 2. Nebraska (22) 4-0-0 1493 2 3. Florida St. (4) 4-0-0 1396 3 4. Penn St. (3) 4-0-0 1369 5 5. Colorado (1) 3-0-0 1334 7 6. Arizona (1) 3-0-0 1199 8 7. Michigan 2-1-0 1145 4 8. Notre Dame 3-1-0 1083 9 9. Auburn 4-0-0 1008 1 0 10.TexasA&M 3-0-0 935 12 11.Aiabama 4-0-0 906 11 12. Washington 2-1-0 863 17 13.Miami 2-1-0 791 6 14.Virginia Tech. 4-0-0 735 14 15. Wisconsin 2-1-0 674 16 16.Texas 3-0-0 666 15 17. Washington St. 3-0-0 515 22 18. North Carolina 2-1-0 491 13 19. Southern Cal 2-1-0 462 19 20.0hio St. 3-1-0 430 20 21. Oklahoma 2-1-0 341 21 22. NCarolina St. 3-0-0 266 24 23.Kansas 3-0-0 175 24. Colorado St. 4-0-0 71 25.111inoise 2-1-0 64 
• STATISTICS SCORE BY QUARTERS  PASSING-Notre Dame:  Powlus 9-14-111-0 TD,  Kelly  
Purdue Notre Dame  0 3  7 16  0 13  14 7  21 39  Krug 1-1-8-0. Purdue: Dicken 2-3-18-0 TD.  Trefzger 10-15-102-1,  continued from page 1·  
TEAM STATS  p  NO  RECEIVING -Notre Dame:  Mayes 3-56, Stafford  scrambled to snare Zellars.  
First Downs Rushes-Yards Passing Yards Comp-AU-Int  16 32-126 120  23 62-428 119 12·18·1  2-23 TD, Mosley 1-15, Miller 1-8, Edwards 1-8, 1-8 McBride, Zellars 1-1. Purdue: Allen 3-39, Thornton 3-32, Samuel 2-21 TD, Rogers 2-7, Tillman 1-13, Olivadotti 1-8.  But the Notre Dame fullback simply hurdled him, a lovely leap that left Hagins gasping. Like Baryshnikov.  
10·15·0 Return Yards Punts-Avg  182 6-42.1  72 3-34.0  TACKLES • Notre Dame: Magee 5, Taylor 5, Goheen 4 (1 sack), Moore 4, Nau 4, Saddler 4,  All that remained was to outrun the rest of the pursuing Purdue defense, about 30 yards of a  
Fumbles-Lost Penalties-Yds Possession Time  3-2 7-54 21:50  o-o 6-59 38:10  Sample 3, Wooden 3, Babey 2, Belisle 2, Cobbins 2, Covington 2, Gibson 2, Grasmanis 2 (1 sack), Hamilton 2, Kramer 2, Mclaughlin 2, Wagasy 2, Wynn 2, Maiden 1 (1 fumble recovery), Davis (1  flat-out sprint. But Purdue was just flat, unable to catch the fleeing fullback. "It was like a Sega game," said Irish corner­ 
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS RUSHING-Notre Dame: Zellars 14-156 TD, Kinder 16-143 2TD, Mosley 10-80, Farmer 9-42,  fumble recovery). Purdue: Hart 10, Hagins 9, Johnson 9, Brown 8, Conley 8, Jackson 6, Krick 5 (1 sack), Washel 4 (1  back Bobby Taylor, who witnessed the race from the sidelines.  
Edwards 5-19, Blunt 2-2, Powlus 5-(minus 4), Krug 1-(minus 10). Purdue: Rogers 16-88 TD, Alstott 12-65, Hagins 1-2 TD, Trefzger 3-(minus 9).  sack), Gray 4, O'Keafor 4, Phipps 4, Brush 3, Batten 2, Howard 2, O'Connor 2.  Indeed, the run seemed somewhat removed from reality. It was like a time warp and everyone was car­ 

 ried back to 1992, the last year that Bettis  
FIRST QUARTER Notre Dame 3, Purdue 0 (9 plays, 61 yards, 4:43) 1:44-scott Cengia connected on a 31­yard field goal attempt, the first of his col­legiate career. Key Play: Randy Kinder rushed for 24 yards to the Purdue 36.  broke through the Boilermaker line for 35 yards to the Purdue 11 . Notre Dame 25, Purdue 7 (4 plays, 1 yard, 1:57) 5:12-8chroffner chipped in a 33-yard field goal attempt. Key Play: Travis Davis recovered a fumble at the Purdue  prowled Notre Dame's playground. But only in a Sega game can you still find Bettis in a Notre Dame uniform. That blue and gold blur Saturday was Zellars, in living color, though the comparisons were inevitable. "He's like the other ones we've had that have  ..  
16.  gone on to play on Sunday (in the NFL)," Notre  
SECOND QUARTER  Notre Dame 32, Purdue 7  Dame coach Lou Holtz said.  
Notre Dame 10, Purdue 0  (1 plays, 62 yards, 0:14)  Like Bettis.  
(7 plays, 54 yards, 2:14) 12:55-Ron Powlus scrambled and found Charlie Stafford between several Purdue defenders for a 15-yard touch· down pass (Schroffner PAT). Key Play: Kinder ran for 34 yards to the Purdue  3:34-Ray Zellars broke one tackle and hurdled another on the way to a rumbling 62-yard touchdown run (Schroffner PAT). Key Play: The only play. FOURTH QUARTER  But the moment belonged to Zellars alone. It will forever be his defining play, a 62-yard bump and run and jump and run some more. All Purdue's defense could do was lay in his wake and watch.  
three.  Notre Dame 39, Purdue 7  When he fmally reached the endzone, he exalt­ 
Notre Dame 13, Purdue 7 (6 plays, 68 yards, 2:34) 5:14-Joe Hagins scored from two yards out, Purdue's first score against Notre Dame since 1991 (Brad Babich PAT). Key Play: Mike Alstott rushed for 16 yards to the Notre Dame two. Notre Dame 19, Purdue 7  (11 plays, 76 yards, 5:45) 10:35-Kinder a one-yard plunge (Schroffner PAT). Key Play: Robert Farmer's 22-yard run to the Purdue one­yard line. Notre Dame 39, Purdue 14 (8 plays, 67 yards, 3:11) 7:24-Corey Rogers scored from one  ed in his remarkable run, strutting and pumping his arms furiously. Like Bettis. It was a rare touchdown celebration that didn't exceed the magnitude of the play. He deserved to strip that helmet off and mug for the cameras. "Ray's run was just incredible," Irish center Mark Zataveski said. "It was unbelievable the  
(12 plays, 75 yards, 5:04)  yard out. Key Play: Don't know, wasn't  way he was breaking tackles."  
0:12-Kinder ran three yards for a touch·  paying attention.  But when it was all over, his teammates had to  
down (Conversion failed). Key Play: Powlus scrambled and found Mayes for a 1 0-yard gain to the Purdue seven. THIRD QUARTER Notre Dame 22, Purdue 7 (7 plays, 55 yards, 2:11)  Notre Dame 39, Purdue 21 (9 plays, 65 yards, 2:13) 0:39-Rogers caught a 5-yard pass from Billy Dicken (Babich PAT). Key Play: Rogers rushed for 16 yards to the Notre Dame 18.  relay to him the details of his highlight reel. Seems that the man doesn't really recall his finest moment in a Notre Dame uniform. "I heard a lot about the run on the sidelines," Zellars said. "I was in zone myself and I don't remember much."  
7:23-8chroffner made a 23-yard field  He doesn't need to remember it.  
goal attempt. Key Play: Ray Zellars  All who witnessed the run will never forget it.  


Monday, September 26, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 4 


The Observer/John Bingham 
Charlie Stafford can't hang on to a pass in the endzone . 
• fROM THE LENS 
Notre Dame 39 
I.
Purdue 21 
Notre Dame Stadium 
Justin Goheen greets a Purdue player with some force. 
September 24, 1994 

Notre Dame quarterback Ron Powlus tries to scramble away from a pair of pursuing Purdue defenders. 

The Observer/Tom Perez The ObserverJake Peters A Purdue defender pulls Mike Miller to the turf after a punt return in the second quarter. Bert Berry (60) and LeShane Saddler chase Purdue's Craig Allen. 

.. 
' 
ACCENT 
September 26, 1994 
• STRAIGHT 0UTTA ~WAKA 
Automatic weapons, ravioli, and flying fish 
Just like "The Empire Strikes Back," this is  Kris Kazlauskas  
part two of an emotionally gripping trilogy.  Accent Columnist  
~o  refresh your memory, I will give a synop­ 

sis. o~.the last article: "Tijuana," "NROTC," "Chiclets," and "big ship. If that doesn't help, remember that Jesus still loves you. 
June 9-The day to embark for Hong Kong had arrived. As we pulled away from the pier, I spied a McDonald's in the dis­tance, and in front of the restaurant, a shiny ceramic statue of Ronald himself. I tried to hold back the tears, but to no avail. "Farewell dear Ronald!" I shouted, "My heart belongs to thee." I turned my back to America, glorious land of Barbie, SPAM, and the Thundercats, and raised a menacing fist towards the sea. The journey had begun. 
My job on the "Steamin' Cleve" (USS Cleveland) was to make sure that it was going in the right direction. I, along with twenty-five other men, kept track of our progress in the Combat Information Center (CIC). I stood a constant vigil on the r~dar: sinking merchant ships and gunning down com­mercml aircraft when I deemed it necessary. When I wasn't on watch. I wandered the ship, pressing buttons and flipping switches to my heart's content. 
After a hard day's work, I would mosey down to the mess deck to get chow (That's Navy talk for "eat dinner"). While I've always associated the word "chow" with "Purina cat" in front of it, I must admit that the food was a taste sensation for the pal~te .. I ~te ravioli for most of the trip and drank "bug juice," wh~ch IS hke Kool-aid, but with a kick. like so many passive resistors of the past, I had expected to fast for five weeks. But to my surp.rise, the ship ~v~n had a barbecue on the flight deck, and m a scene remimscent of Lord of the Flies boasted a roasted pig (cool rhyme). I asked if we could have a :.Circus Lunch" day, but was disappointed to find out that they had one before I came. (Sigh) 
I didn't mind the meals, but my rack (bed) was a far cry from a "Craftmatic Adjustable Bed®." My clothes had to fit under the bed, which folded open in a coffin-like fashion. The only problem was, my coffin had not been opened in several months, and the previous occupant had left perishable gifts for me. I wa~ greeted to.the de!ightful sight of several thoroughly used Q-T1ps along With a fnghtening blast of air that reeked of Cheez-its. I marveled at the ecosystem which had spawned from this popular snack cracker, but eventually eradicated the tiny colonists with good ol' fashioned elbow grease and a cou­ple of potpourri scented Stick-ups. After taping up a poster of S~lt-n-Pepa that I had acquired from a fold-out in BOP! maga­zme, I was ready to call this little cozy space "home." 
The tri,P l~sted nearly a month, and when I wasn't up in CIC, I was pamtmg watercolors of flying fish. For those who have never seen this majestic, flying friend of the seas, allow me to create a mental image of a sight, although it can never be fully captured by words. There you are, looking over the side of a large amphibious sailing vessel, and then you notice a sparkle­~ spl.ash-a dance of light! The fish leaps out of the water, sail­mg like a balsa wood glider just inches above the surface, and !he!l-BAM! It dives into a little wave, over fifty yards away. It IS Simply breathtaking! But alas, I digress. 
Apart from painting, the ship often showed recorded movies and television programs which entertained sailors young and old. As a result, I have the distinct honor of being the only per­son at Notre Dame to have seen every episode of"Blossom." For reasons unbeknownst to myself, I concluded that the ship had so~e sort of ~oey Lawrence fetish. Tapping into the ship's enthusiasm for this show, I suggested to the commanding offi­cer that we designate every Sunday, "Blossom Fest" day. He commended me on my ability to boost the ship's morale, and gave me a medal. When we had scraped the bottom of the bar­rel for the lost "Blossom" episodes, I suggested a tribute to :·Punky Brewster." Unfortunately, the sailors were quick to mform me that I was one trip too late. 
I would be lying if I said we didn't stop along the way. The four .hundred Marines on board were getting restless, and ac­cordmgly, they ~ere given tw? days to invade Tinian, a big rock covered With weeds and mfested with rats. I volunteered to go after hearing rumors that Charo would be performing for the troops, and was told that I would be the official battle wa­ter boy: We attacked the rock via helicopter, and I, with a five­g~llo~ JUg of agua _on my back, ran around, diving in weeds, chm~mg tr~es, swmging on vines, all the while yelling, "Yo, Joe! A ragmg fireball of enthusiasm, I filled canteens with lightning quick movements. 
Towards mid-afternoon however, my zeal for pouring water had given way to scrounging for food. I snapped back Wonder Woman's head, and realized that I had no more PEZ. I resort­ed to eating mud and bugs, and was half-dead by the time they heloed me back to the ship. The ship's doctor concluded that I ?a~ eaten at least a handful of the poisonous aphids that were mdigenous to the area. I thanked the Marines for time well spent and resolved never to run out of PEZ again 
Finally, on July fourth, someone yelled, "Land Ho!" I had ~tayed ~p all night, and was one of the first to see Hong Kong m the distance. As we slowly inched into the straight between Hong Kong and Kowloon, I waved to the natives, and prepared myself for the final leg of the saga. Stay tuned for part 3. 
page 9 

Blues Traveler breaks new ground on "Four" 
By DAVE 1YLER Music Critic 
What do you get when 
you cross a three hundred 
pound singing harmonica 
virtuoso, a self described 
"high school loser," punk 
guitarist, a bassist and a 
drummer, and throw them 
together at New York City's 
New School of Music? 
Of all the punch lines or 
snappy answers to that 
question, a "great rock and 
roll band," is probably far 
down on the list. But with 
the release of their fourth 
studio album, stalwart of 
the neo-deadhead move­
ment Blues Traveler is 
proving that they do indeed . lit that description. 
Simply titled "Four," this 
new disc captures Blues 
Traveler at its best, turning 
out high energy song after 
high energy song. This is 
the type of disc that quie.ts 
doubters, and showcases 
the growth and develop­
ment of a band, assures 
them a legitimate place in 
rock and roll world, yet still announces to fans that we're still the same fun guys we used to be. Simply put, this is the best work the unique, New York City based band has man­ufactured to date. 
Few bands can capture the furious sound of a live show on tape. On "Four," Blues Traveler not only gets their live feel on tape, but proves why they are the best jamming band around. Using songs as a show­case for their musical ability is the Travelers' specialty. With John Popper leading the way on vocals and harmonica, gui­tarist Chan Kinchla, bassist Bob Sheehan, and drummer Brendan Hill combine to form a sound so hot, it smokes. Songs like the driving "Fallible,,. or "Crash Burn," a powerful three minutes explosion are prime examples of this. 
But this sort of music was characteristic of the first three Blues Traveler albums. It earned the adoration of con­cert-goers, but also the scorn of critics who complained that band was an excuse for wild, careless improvisation, and found Popper's possessed har­monica playing only slightly re­deeming. The beef, as it were was missing. 
On this album the band has matured, combining catchy lyrics laden with pop culture references, with more careful attention to orchestration. "Four" explores several musical styles, and displays a sensitivity towards lyrics and musician­ship that brings them closer to the direction their musical brethren Spin Doctors and Phish have been moving in. 
Popper and company sing songs that ring with truth of experience. Songs about de­stroyed ideas of love, self-re­liance, egoism, and possession. 


The song "Freedom" decries the greed of today's society with the sarcastic refrain "I lover what's mine cause what's mine is all mine, gives me a reason to go get more." 
The band displays a talent for finding apt metaphors for today's society. Whether its feeling like a "game show contestant with a parting _gift" in "Runaround," or comparing the false icons of MTV society to an imp like Peter Pan in "Hook," Blues Traveler makes no pretenses about laughing at the world. 
Telling a story through music continues to be one of the band's strengths. In "Price to Pay," we hear the tale of a scorned young farm girl you ran off to join the circus, and discovered that glory and ro­mance do not always follow Ringling Brothers into town. Does she survive? That decision is left up to the listener. 
Kinchla and Popper perhaps mesh best on "Stand," and "Fallible," tributes to self re­liance and pride respectively. While the two push the limits of funk in "Stand," they are able to lay down a fierce rock and roll riff and jam out over it in "Fallible." 
"Stand" also highlights the powers of orchestration Blues Traveler retains from their New School days. Sounding at times like James Brown, at times like Phish, and at times like Led Zeppelin, "Stand" is one of the more intense songs on the albums, not just for its thunder­ous improvisation, but its neat and careful packaging too. 
"Runaround," is definite sin­gle material, an area Blues Traveler usually shuns. Lyrically dense yet musically uncluttered, "Runaround" jogs along briskly with a hook filled ve.rse and neat, stacked har­monica solos by Popper. While the band spends time decrying " hip three minute ditties" in "Hook," "Runaround" proves that they have spent a consid­erable amount of time strug­gling to make their sound come across in a marketable radio package. 
Bob Sheehan's "The Mountains Win Again," and Popper's "Look Around" are two more successful forays into the genre of the power ballad, a tradition that began on their debut album with "Crystal Flame." Well arranged, flowing, and vibrant, each song reflects careful craftsman ship and a deep appreciation of all forms of music. 
"Brother John" is a rock adaptation of an old folk song, that Blues Traveler turns into a happy, jamming romp. Leaning towards bluegrass, but with a strong feel of front porch R&B, it marks a good ending point for the album full of raw energy and building to a crescendo. · 
A new production team of Steve Thompson and Michael Barbiero have cleaned up and solidified Blues Traveler's sound, helping to better main­tain their live thunder in the studio. Guest shot's from David Letterman's pal Paul Shaffer and the Allman Brother's Warren Haynes also provide punch to the album. 
"Four" marks Blues Traveler's emergence as a band to be reckoned with. The album will win new fans and satisfy the old. It pushes boundaries, breaks down walls, explores new territory for not only the band, but for music it­self. And like any good live performance, it leaves the lis­tener craving more. 
4 stars 
out of 5. 

I 1 1 I I I I!!' I I I I 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 26, 1994 
• SENIOR PGA 

Greens of Brickyard course feel like Japan for Isao ·Aoki 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The Brickyard Crossing golf course reminds Isao Aoki of courses in his native Japan. 
It was apparent Aoki felt at home on the course at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway on Saturday as he shot a S­under-par 67 for a two-round total of 11-under 133 to win his second straight Senior PGA Tour event. 

Aoki, playing the entire tour­nament without a bogey, birdied the 17th hole to capture the abbreviated $700,000 Brickyard Crossing Championship by a stroke. 
The tournament was held to two rounds after the frrst round was rained out Friday. 
Tom Wargo had a one-shot lead going to No. 17, but he three-putted the par-3 hole after hitting his tee shot within 12 feet of the hole. Wargo and Jimmy Powell tied for second at 134. 
Powell shot a record 30 on the back nine, including a hole­in-one on the par-3 13th. 
Wargo said he ran into trou­ble when he saw Aoki, who was playing a threesome ahead, birdie No. 17 to go 11-under. Aoki one-putted the 189-yard hole after his 4-iron tee shot landed about three feet from the pin. 
"He forced our hand by mak­ing birdie," Wargo said, adding he read his downhill putt slow­er than it played. Wargo said he also misread a short putt on 18 that would have forced a play­off. 
"I read it to break to the right, but it straightened out," he said. 
Aiko, who earned $105,000, won his frrst tour victory in two years last week in Lexington, Ky. He said the turning point Sunday came when he sank a 15-foot putt on No. 13 to save par and then finished the round bogey free. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 Cel)ts per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Always a little short??? Uke to have some extra $$$? Work pt. hours and get full time pay and have fun doing it. flex. hours Call Mr. Leeks 
272-3788 
USED TEXTS CHEAPIIII Buy & sell used books at the only hip place in town 10-6M·S/9-3Sun PANDORA'S BOOKS NO ave & Howard St 233-2342 
PAPA JOHN'S is HIRING! -delivery & inside personnel -flexible schedule -top pay -10..40 hour schedules available -1/2 price pizza -EOE call271-1177 
Downtown Book Wholesaler needs clerical &/or warehouse workers flexible schedule & wkend work 232-8500 X22 ask for Bryan 
ILOST &'FOUND I 
FOUND: Bracelet in DeBartolo; call Susan 277-1724 
....... REWARD ...... 
A $250 REWARD GOES TO ANYONE WHO CAN RETURN MY 1991 CANNONDALE RED SHRED COMPETITION SERIES BIKE. A SMALLER REWARD GOES TO ANYONE WHO CAN GIVE ME REAL INFO AS TO ITS WHEREABOUTS. PLEASE HELP ME -SOMEONE IS NOW RIDING AROUND ON MY LIFE SAVINGS. -JANET 
x1572 
FOUND: A watch at the Observer Classified Department. Please come back to claim it. 
$50 REWARD-For the return of or info. leading to the return of 2 CO's: Pearl Jam "No -· Messiah" and Nirvana "All Acoustically". 272­4021 
WANTED 
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! SELL 8 TRIPS & GO FREE! BEST TRIPS & PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT RESUME EXPERIENCE! 1·800.. 678-6386! 
WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO­MOTE SPRING BREAK TO JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE TRAVEUCOMMISSIONSI SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710. 
FUNDRAISING Choose from 3 dif­ferent fundraisers lasting either 3 or 7 days. No Investment. Eam $$$ for your group plus personal cash bonuses for yourself. Call 1-800­932-0528, Ext. 65 
BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR ONE­HOUR AM EXERCISE CLASSES. PAID POSITION PLUS FREE EXERCISE MEMBERSHIP. CALL 277-0111 FOR MORE INFO. 
'''SPRING BREAK 95'" America's #1 Spring Break Company! Cancun, Bahamas, Daytona & Panama! 11 0% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and TRAVEL FREE! Eam highest commissions! (800)32­TRAVEL 

HELP WANTED: ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY NEWS SERVICES, 
232-3205 OR 288-9361. 
PIZZA MAKER -PART TIME ­EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD MONEY. 
CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW YORK 257·1100. 
FOR RENT 
FEMALE MODELS 18-25 needed by photographer for photo/video work in lingerie and similar apparel. Call Jim at273-7074 for info. 
For Rent 

THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BI;:D & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219· 773-2034 
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & BREAKFAST· Historic Home, quiet setting, 4 guest rooms, shared baths. 20 minutes to campus. 
616-695-6321. 
Parents, Alums, need room for games. Comfortable home, walk to campus. 277-7371 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 
PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC 
EVENTS. 
219-291-7153. 

1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR 
RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS 
PROPERTIES. 272-6306 
FOR SALE 
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR 
FOR ONLY $79 FOR TWO 
SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV­
ERY CALL: 

COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 
272-5959. 

Tired of walking? CLASSIC 1972 
NOVA, 4 Dr, 61K, Auto, PS, New 
Tires, Runs Greaall Some rust, 
$1100, Leave message 299-1774. 
For Sale 

20' (2X10') Mark Levinson 
speaker cords with goldtipped 
audio quest connects. $125 
or best offer. 654-7887 (eve). 
93 Men's Cruiser Supreme 6 Speed Bike. Almost new. $150. 654-7887 (evenings). 
'71 M.G. MIDGETT RED CON­VERTIBLE. SHARP, RUNS GOOD. $1,700. CALL 277-3239. 
CONDO FOR SALE-Woodbridge­Minutes from ND-end unit on pond­18177F Stoneridge-2BR+Loft, Fireplace, Att Gar w/Opener­$58,000-Call232-5190. 
Macintosh llsi 5-80 
14" Color Monitor 
$1000 or best offer 
Kory X1644 

FREE KITTENS-8 weeks old 
call nicole x4544 
SCHWINN COLLEGIATE 3-SPEED BIKES, MAN'S & WOMAN'S, NEW TIRES, TUBES, COMFORT SEATS. $100 EACH. 277-2182. 
'93 JEEP WRANGLER, Black, Hardtop, 6 cyV4.0 1., 31x10.50 Yokahama Superdigger Tires, 15x7 American Racing 5-spoke Wheels, Pioneer AM/FM,Cass, 6­Disk Changer, 15K mi. $13,500. 232-3658 
TICKETS 
WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU TICKETS. CALL 
800-922-2327 JANET. 
I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS. 272-6551 
4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED. CALL X2875 (NICKY) 
WANTED 3 GA EITHER ND VS STAN, BYU CALL COL 215-355­7131 
CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME. I would if I had tick­ets to the Stanford game. Alum REALLY wants to return to campus with family. Student tix ok. Price negotiable. Call collect after 6 pm 
(516) 499-5009. 
HELP! I need 2 TIX to the Stanford Gamel Call Patty at 1-800-697-9141,1eave message. 
WANTED: BYU GA'S WILL PAY 
BIG BUCKS. CALL KRISTEN OR 
KATE@ 271-0224 
I NEED TWO NAVY G.A. CALL MIKE X3692 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR STAN­
FORD GAME SO PARENTS 
CAN SEE FIRST ND FOOTBALL 
GAME. CALL MARIANNE X3295 
$$$Help! I need 2 Navy GAs. 
Please call Lisa at277-0740. Will 
pay top dollars.$$$ 
Need BYU TIX Will trade Stanford tickets Call Mike at (513)228-3349 
Need 3 GA's for Navy or Air Force; 
make an offer! Paul-277-6433 
Need 1 Stanford stud. orGA Call Nick 289-9708 
NEED 2 GA BYU tix and 2-6 GA 
Stanford tix. Please call Rachael 
at #4667. 
NEED 2 GA's for NAVY & 
NEED 4 GA's for BYU 
CALL Chris x-1353 
I need 2 Stanford GA's x1659 Desi 
HELP! I NEED TIX FOR STAN­
FORD. PLEASE CALL MIKE @ 
X1243 
ND Alums Need Stanfd. GA's 
Call (313) 420-1208 or (310) 813­
5659 
Need only ONE STANFORD ticket Will lake anything-BIG MONEY! Please call Diana x4939 
HELPIIII I NEED 1 STUDENT 
TICKET FOR MY LITTLE 
BROTHER FOR THE NAVY 
GAME. I WILL PAY A GOOD 
PRICE. CALL ANYTIME. 
ERIN X4121 
Will Trade 2 STAN for 2 FSU Call 
Karen X4290 
Long lost family and friends coming for STANFORD game! Desperately need 7 tix! Call Donald x1844. 
FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL 
HOME GAMES. 272-7233. 

"'NEED 4 NAVY GAs"* "'DAVID x3406 
FLYING OUT FROM CALIFORNIA -DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA TICKETS TO STANFORD GAMEl (916)671-3299 KEVIN 
Family flying from ALASKA for 1st ND game. Need 4.BYU ticks., stu. or G.A. PLEASEI Call shannon 291-6288 
NEED TIX-5 BYU GA'S, 4 STAN­FORD GA'S -Call Joe @ x2765 
Desperate and Beatutiful Mormons Need 3 BYU tickets-Call x2703. 
WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GA'S FOR ANY 2 HOME GAME GA'S CALL JULIE 2845516 
NEED FSU TIX SUSAN 2771724 
NEED STANFORD STUD. TIX CALL 234-8958. 
NEED STANFORD GA'S MATT 257-0564 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS 
CALL CHRIS 4-3095 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA-WILL 
PAY BIG BUCKS-CHRIS 4-3095 
oQnly need 1 Stanford GA ticket• 
Needed ASAP 
Call Dan @ x1044 
WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD 
AND/OR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR BOSTON COLLEGE. CALL AFTER 5 PM 684-1304. 
I have 2 Navy GA's to trade for 2 
BYU GA's. Call Joe x4024 
I need 2 NAVY GAs 
Will pay Big $$$ 
Please call Laura at 
284-4328 

HELP! I need 1 Stanford GA (or 
married) Monica X2995 
Need 3 Stanford Tix, GA preferred Call 234-6843. Ask for Dan Manley. 
Willing to buy my parents' love ... with 2 GAs to either Stanford, BYU, or Navy! $$$$$ Erin -289-5490 
I bet you can't sell me your 10 
Stanford GA'sll 
Call Jon x3367 
I need 2 Stanford GA:s Call Katie 
at X2845 
Please Please Please Please I need 4 Stanford GA's Wilitrade Navy GA's or buy. -Bryan x1190 
I HAVE 2 NAVY GA TIX 
I NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA TIX 
LETS MAKE A TRADE 
I'LL PAY THE DIFFERENCE 
DENISE X2549 
I HAVE 2 NAVY GA TIX 
I NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA TIX 
LETS MAKE A TRADE 
I'LL PAY THE DIFFERENCE 
DENISE X2549 
Need 1 GA Stan. BYU or A. F. 
Matt3571 

NEED BYU GA'S. CALL ERIN 
#4015 

$1 NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S$ CALL AMY X2652 
HELP! PERPETUAL GRAD STU­DENTS PARENTS HAVE NEVER SEEN AN N.D. GAME. NEED TWO NAVY G.A.S. CALL TIM AT 257­9581. 
NEED 1 STANFORD STUD OR GA. LESLEY 4819 
Need 2 Standford tix Call Chris x3767 
Need 2 STANFORD GA's Please call Curtis-282-2197 
NEED 1 MICH. 4 PUR., 
+ 2 STAN. STUD TIX. CALL 234-8958. 
I NEED STANFORD GA's X4-2193 
Need Stnfrd stdnt or GA tixs, call Chris x1197 
Please! I need 4 NAVY GAs and 2 STANFORD GAsl Mary Beth x4220 
Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call Sue at 277-8995 
Help! I need two Stanford GA's call Jan at 273-0741 
I need 4 Navy GA's please!!!! Mark x1640 
I NEED 2 BYU GA'S I HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S WILL TRADE OR BUY call chris x3913 
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE AND STANFORDI CALL BOB '1233 
Need 2 STANFORD GAs for dad and bro. TOP $$! Anna x2286. 
NEED 8 STANFORD TICKETS. CALL GRANT 416-865-7741. 
WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'S 
FOR 2 BYU GA'S. CALL SIGI AT 312-477-3357. 
I NEED ONE AIR FORCE TICKET­GA OR STUDENT. PLEASE CALL X3816. THANKS! 
Help! I need two Stanford Student tix or GA's. My alum brother is fly­ing in from California and will lock me in the closet (like he did when we were kids) if I don't have tix for himl Please help! Cyndi 284-5322. 
NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S. 
CALL AARON X3460. 
NEED 2 BYU GA TIX & WILL PAY 
BIG BUCKS SO CALL ME 1722 
ND Alum Needs 2 STANFORD 
GAs, BIG$$! Call217-3:37-6862 
Needed 2 GA for BYU 11!!!1!! 
Call Ryan x3662. 
1 GA tor sale for all home games. Call me-Maria 273-6463 
need 1 GA for BYU, AIR FORCE or NAVY! call ann x4544 
need 6 GAs tor Navy call paul 
x3591 

NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR STAN­FORD--& -1 STUDENT TICKET FOR BYU -CALL JENNIE 272­0108 
I need 4 Stanford GA's 
Call 234-1139 
Need 1 stanford tix desperately! I 
Call Eileen at x4086 to negotiate! 
Eip-hayl 1-hay eed-nay oo-tay An­
ford-stay ickets-tay!l All-cay lkki­
nay at-hay X4081. 
Need 2 Navy GA's. Call287-1953 
NEED 4 STANFORD ST. TIX HEATHER x2580 

I have 2 ND-FSU tix for swap. I need S.B. hotel for Stanford, 9/30 & 1 0/1 and/or ND-BC tix. Please call if you can help-Mike Joyce 617-479­5000 
Help ME*I need 2 std. leks for BYU, will trade Navy std. tck-Tom x1091 
Angry Airmen need Air Force GA's. Serve your country. Call x4816. 
Need three GAs for any home game. Call Matt at289-2710 
baaahh 
Need 1 Stanford ticket­Kevin @ 289-3203 

FOR SALE: 3 std and 2 married std tix in bklts or separately. Leave a message with your offer. 277-3665 
HELPII I NEED BC GA'S. PLEASE CALL LIZ X2325. :) 
INDIGO GIRLS--NEED 21ix! 271­
1532 

NEED UP TO 8 GA'S FOR STAN­FORD CHRIS X1527 
Want to trade my 2 Navy GA's (50­yd line) for 2 BYU GA's 
Call Chris x3767 

Need 1 Stanford student ticket. 
will pay $ or trade BYU ticket call Doug at2112 
PERSONAL 

Seamaisin is·looking for musicians 
interested in Irish music. Call1­7021 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY LIZ GOETZ -your admirers HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY LIZ 
P.S. Do you have a boytriend? -Crystal HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY LIZARD look at you, NOW 
-no name neces­sary 
Yoo Hoo, Oh Sexy Roomate !!! Happy 21st Birthday Liz Goetz -the coolest two girls you know (besides Julie) 
Play Ultimate! 
Quality Copies, Quickly!!! 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 

ET IN ARCADIA EGO Interested in the secret histories of covert social forces? Seeking true power & wealth? Fascinated by the politics of opportunism & manipulation? Prepared to do what­ever it takes to get what you want? If this is your truth, you may be spiritually tit to join the Bavarian Illuminati. We will have our first meeting on Friday, Sept 30, at 8pm in the lobby of the Architecture Building. Conspiratorial elitists & Machia­vellian personalities are welcome. No jokers/slackers/Discordians need attend. This is a serious otter: come fulfill your destiny! 
CARRIE YOU ARE SO CUTE 
Kelly, 

Malibu, Big Bear, good ol' John, 
and the such, simply happy 
thoughts 
An lllinios Farmer 

Monday, September 26, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
•Nft 
Moon and Vikings shine over Marino and Dolphins 
By WENDY E. LANE 
Associated Press 
Great quarterbacks know there are times when they must determine a game's outcome. 
Dan Marino and Joe Montana certainly know it. So does Warren Moon. 
And when Marino's Dolphins scored 28 straight points to tie the Vikings in the fourth quar­ter, Moon wanted all the re­sponsibility his job carries. 
"I just knew I had to raise my level," he said after leading a 70-yard scoring drive that put Minnesota back on top for a 38­35 win Sunday. 
"I put it more in my hands to throw the ball down the field and get something going. That's what I thought they brought me here for, to make big plays when it's time to make big plays." 
Moon had his best game as a Viking, going 26 of 37 for 326 yards, including three touch­down passes to Cris Carter. 
But Moon's good buddy Marino put his best on display. too, passing for 431 yards, the fifth-best total of his career. After the Vikings went ahead 38-28 on Fuad Reveiz's field goal, Marino directed two more drives, one for a TD, but ran out of time in the Metrodome. 
"You try to make things hap­pen," said Marino, who threw three interceptions. "When you're down, sometimes you have to take chances. I tried to force it. 
"But we still almost won. I re­ally felt like we weren't going to lose." 
On a day when Montana was­n't himself, Kansas City could­n't even score. 
With Montana fighting the flu, the previously unbeaten Chiefs lost to the Los Angeles Rams 16-0 at Arrowhead Stadium. Montana threw three intercep­tions and saw his team shut out for the first time in his 15-year career. 
In other games Sunday: San Diego 26, Los Angeles Raiders 24; San Francisco 24, New Orleans 13; Chicago 19, New York Jets 7; Seattle 30, Pittsburgh 13; Houston 20, Cincinnati 13; New England 23, Detroit 17; Cleveland 21, Indianapolis 14; Atlanta 27, Washington 20; and Green Bay 30, Tampa Bay 3. 
Tonight, Denver plays at Buffalo. 
More than trying to beat Marino, Moon was trying to avoid being linked to another blown lead. 
After all, Moon was with Houston when the Oilers took a 35-3 lead over the Buffalo Bills in the 1992 postseason. The Oilers sputtered and Buffalo rallied to win 41-38, the biggest comeback in NFL history. 
So after the Dolphins {3-1) made it 28-28 on Bernie Parmalee's 10-yard run with 10:34, Moon went to offensive coordinator Brian Billick seek­ing permission to open the of­fense. 
The Vikings immediately marched 70 yards. Moon threw passes of 13 and 22 yards to Jake Reed, and Terry Allen had a 30-yard run before Scottie Graham scored the winner on a 3-yard run. 
"I have a lot of confidence in myself to do what I know I do best," Moon said. ''I'm not go­ing to rock the boat completely, but I will make some sugges­tions from time to time." 
Rams 16, Chiefs 0 
At Kansas City, Mo., the Chiefs {3-1) were shut out at home for the first time since 1985, when the Rams blanked them. 
Montana had his worst game of the season, throwing two interceptions in the final pe­riod. Jerome Bettis had his third straight 100-yard game, getting 132 yards on 35 carries for the Rams {2-2). 
Chargers 26, Raiders 24 At Los Angeles, Stan Humphries led the Chargers (4­
0) on a long drive that ended with John Carney's 33-yard field goal with two seconds left. The victory gave the Chargers the NFL's best record and their best start since 1980. 
Lionel Washington gave the Raiders (1-3) a 24-23 lead when he intercepted Humphries' pass and returned it 31 yards for a touchdown with 7:01 remaining. 
49ers 24, Saints 13 At San Francisco, Deion Sanders made his first start for the 49ers {3-1), returning an interception 74 yards for a touchdown with 32 seconds left to kill a potential winning drive by the Saints. 

Steve Young, playing behind an injury-decimated offensive line, was sacked five times but managed two touchdown throws to Jerry Rice. 
New Orleans {1-3) led 13-10 at halftime, turning a botched punt into a touchdown drive and a Young interception into a field goal. 
Bears 19, Jets 7 
At East Rutherford, N.J., Lewis Tillman scored two touchdowns and gained 96 yards on 32 carries for Chicago {2-2). 
Not even a team-record 90­yard run by Johnny Johnson could help the Jets {2-2). who lost two fumbles, missed two field goals and saw quarterback Boomer Esiason sidelined with a sprained ankle after being sacked in the third quarter. 
Seahawks 30, Steelers 13 
At Seattle, Neil O'Donnell was intercepted four times, three times in the final quarter, by the Seahawks. 
Chris Warren rushed for 126 y-ards and a touchdown for Seattle (3 -1), outperforming Pittsburgh's Barry Foster, who got 96 yards on 21 carries. 
The Steelers (2-2) lost despite a 452-297 advantage in total yards. 
Oilers 20, Bengais 13 
At Houston, Gary Brown scored two touchdowns for the Oilers {1-3). The Oilers' offense, however, continued to struggle, even though Cody Carlson was back at quarterback after sepa­rating his shoulder in the sea­son opener. 
David Klingler, who grew up in Houston and played at the University of Houston, was sacked seven times and threw three interceptions as the Bengals remained the NFL's only winless team. 
Patriots 23, lions 17 
At Pontiac, Mich., Drew Bledsoe completed 21 of 33 passes for 251 yards and one touchdown, and the Patriots (2­
2) benefited from two late in­terceptions. 
Maurice Hurst picked off Scott Mitchell late in the third quarter, and Myron Guyton intercepted him again just before the two-minute warning. 
Barry Sanders ran for toqch­downs of 35 and 39 yards for the Lions (2-2), rushing 18 times for 131 yards. 
Browns 21, Colts 14 

At Indianapolis, Vinny Testaverde, the lowest-rated quarterback in the AFC, threw for three touchdowns, including a 57-yarder to Eric Metcalf and a 65-yarder to Leroy Hoard. 
The Browns (3-1) led 14-7 at halftime after Metcalfs second TD reception, a 15-yarder. only two plays for the go-ahead score early in the fmal period. 
OUTPOST CENTER IRELAND SQUARE Edson Raoo ~~ ::Ja: ~ ~ U.S. 20 ByPassi0 , Calalpa a: I e c *rIretand RoadFOR Outpost Center • Grape Road • 258-9185 Monday-Thursday 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Friday 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. UNLIMITED Saturday 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sunday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. In Ireland Square • 2046 Ireland Rd. • 291-8488 Monday-Thursday 7 a.m. to 1 0 p.m. Friday 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. MONTH Saturday 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sunday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.One per customer • Must be 18 years or older • Must present coupon • First time customers only  


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 26, 1994 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

Hail Mary wins game 
By RICK WARNER Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich 
Four years ago, Colorado won a game on a freak play as time expired and went on to win the national championship. Will it happen again in 1994? 
It could. After beating Michigan 27-26 Saturday on Kordell Stewart's tipped, 64­yard touchdown pass to Michael Westbrook on the frnal play, Colorado moved into posi­tion to challenge for another ti­tle. 
The Buffaloes (3-0) rose two spots to No. 5 in The Associated Press poll after pulling off the most spectacular Hail Mary pass since Doug Flutie's 1984 miracle in Miami. 
"It puts us in a position to win a national title, but there's a long way to go," Colorado coach Bill McCartney said. 
In 1990, the Buffaloes beat Missouri 33-31 on a fifth-down TD run that occurred because the officials lost track of the downs. Colorado also needed a little luck to beat Michigan, al­though Stewart and Westbrook displayed tremendous talent on the last play. 
Stewart's pass sailed more than 70 yards in the air. and Westbrook made a diving catch 
:.~~ touched by two other play­"Kordell's ability to scramble around and then throw it that far made the play possible," McCartney said. "Westbrook's
job on that play is to position himself to make a catch on a rebound, which he did." 
be~~:,;I:yhi:i~~:sfi:'~f.:,:~ 

lt•s Hip To Trip. 
London 
$549* Paris $499* Tel Aviv $858* Mexico City $198* Tokyo $889* Bangkok $1069* 
~~~{.! ;ou~~t!,.~ ~~~!~~~~~~~:;';.'::; 
""' suble~ cho1190. Coli for other worldwide 
destlnll\lons. 
Coundl Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn Chicago, IL 60610 
(312) 951-0585 
Call for a FREE Student Travels magazine! 
COLORADO
'-'•a• 

NOBODY D0£5 SKI BRU~KS B£TT£R! 

like Flutie's pass to Gerard Phelan and California's five-lat­eral kickoff return against Stanford in 1982, turned Stewart into a serious Heisman Trophy contender. 
Stewart, the nation's third­rated passer. showed his versa­tility against Michigan. He passed for 294 yards and two touchdowns. ran for 85 yards, and set Colorado career records for TD passes and total offense. 
But he'll be remembered for that one play when he dropped back, waited patiently and heaved the ball as far as he could. So how would Stewart compare his pass to Flutie's fling a decade earlier? 
"That was one of the best plays in college football, but I think this one was better be­cause we did it," Stewart said. 
Teammate Darius Holland felt it was a case of divine intervention. 
"Those guys out there asked for a miracle and God decided to give it to them," he said. 
After beating Big Ten powers Wisconsin and Michigan on consecutive weeks, Colorado could use a breather. But the Buffaloes won't get one with their rugged schedule, which includes four ranked opponents in the next five weeks. 
~-va!!!l!!liJlfl 
-·· ,.,
\~., 

( SUNDAY, OCTOBER 2 ) 
...___________;_____:-:--:-::-:-:----­• NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY • • TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED •
r ;r •$14fjR;ON•r ~ 
BUS DEPARTS  
LIBRARY CIRCLE  RIDE  
10:30  11:00  
11:30  12:00  
12:30  1:00  
1:30  2:00  
2:30  3:00  

REGISTER & PAY IN ADVANCE SIGN UP BY 5:00PM ON THURSDAY, SEPT. 29 MAXIMUM NUMBER PER RIDE IS 10 
FOR MORE INFO CALL RECSPORTS AT631-6100 
in the end zone after the ball.....-------------==--=-==-==-=---~------------------------, 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1994 101 DEBARTOLO 6:30 p.m. 

swer for the coach Dennis Sunday. "A team was as good as most in the first half wasn't very damn good in the second half." 
During the Hurricanes' win­ning streak in the Orange Bowl, they never gave up more than 23 --points. Washington scored 25 in the third quarter alone. 
In the second half, the Huskies rushed for 134 yards 
RETURN 
TO CAMPUS 
12:30 
1:30 
2:30 
3:30 
4:30 

U!!coming Events 

Lecture 

ALASDAIR MACINTYRE 
McMahon/Hank Professor of Philosophy University of Notre Dame 
CULTURES IN CONFLICT: AN IRISH..BRITISH EXAMPLE 
Tuesday, September 2 7, 1994 4:15p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
University of Notre Dame 

EVERYONE WELCOME 
L'NIVERSIH OF NOTRE 0.-\.\!E 


PO BOXti.hJ \lt)TRE'f1-\.\IE f\/li-\.\A.4f'"""'"'y.,:,ll r, 
tunity:· 
But two Miami scoring threats produced just a pair of field goals. Otherwise, the Huskies controlled the ball. 
"They have great tradition, and they've been in a lot of stadiums in their lives. This wasn't their ftrst barbecue.'' 
Nonetheless, the win was special for the Huskies. They stlU regard Miami as one of the nation's most prestigious programs. 


Monday, September 26, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• VOlLEYBAll 


4­
Dome trophy stays home 
By BETSY BAKER over Rice on Saturday night. It Sporrs Writer took four games to take down the Owls, but they completedThere is no place like the victory with scores of 15-6, 
home. The Notre Dame volley­6-15, 15-2, 15-3. 
ball team proved this true last "I felt like we were just going
weekend, as they bumped their through the motions early in 
home winning streak to 17 the match," said Irish head matches over the last two sea­
coach Debbie Brown. "I was sons. The 13th ranked Irish pleased with the way we came hosted and won the Golden back after the second game,
Dome Invitational with a victo­but I was disappointed that we ry over Loyola Marymount lost game two." Friday night and Rice Saturday night. 
Peters again led the Irish The Irish swept Loyola with 21 kills in the match, but Marymount in three games 
freshman middle blocker Jamie with scores of 15-6, 15-4, and 
Lee contributed 14 kills and The Observer I Jake Peters 15-8. They were led by senior five blocked shots. Lee joined
Jenny Birkner led the Irish in digs with 11 on their way to winning the Golden Dome Invitational. 
co-captain Christy Peters with Peters, along with junior setter 16 kills for the Irish. She has a 
Shannon Tuttle, on the All­team high 215 kills on the sea­tournament team. son thus far, and also leads the Tuttle has been a bit of an ·­
team with 151 digs. Peters was unsung hero for the Irish this unanimously named MVP of the season. The position of a setter tournament. The invitational is in volleyball has often been the fourth tournament in which compared to a quarterback in she has earned that distinction football. It is a position that this season. demands much leadership and 
Sophomore outside hitter composure, and that is exactlyJenny Birkner also played well what Tuttle has produced for against the Lions, leading the the Irish. She has played in 
team in digs with 11 and con­every match of the season and tributing 8 kills to the Irish ef­leads the team with 575 assists, fort. with freshman setter CareyThe Irish clinched the 
May in second with 48. tournament title with a victory 
been more of a concern for Petrucelli than he was willing
Irish 
to admit. continued from page 20 "It was a sight for sore eyes
"We scored very well this af­to see the ball go into the netternoon," said Petrucelli. "We for her, especially since shefinished our chances. There had hit two crossbars again. Ihave been games this season was beginning to wonder if she when we've had opportunities was ever going to get one to go
to score, but did not take 
in again." 
advantage of them." 
"I think she felt a big relief as 
Among scorers for Notre 
well. She seemed to relax a bitDame was All-American Cindy after the goal." 
Daws, whose slump-of-late had 
TOYO GRfll ~ 
TRADITIONAL JAPANESE/KOREAN SUSHI 
Galbi, Bulgogi, Teriyaki, SukiYaki & Shabu Shabu 
CARRYOUT AVAILABLE Hours: 
620 W Edison 

Tues-Fri 11-2:30 (lunch) 
Mishawaka 
5-9:30 (dinner 
St Andrews Plaza

Saturday 4-10 
254-9120

Sunday 4-9 
Campus Interviews October 3, 1994 
OLDE, America's Full Service Discount BrokerSM is looking for motivated people to establish a career in the brokerage business. 
OLDE offers: .,. 12-18 month paid training program Potential six-figure income Excellent benefits 
If you possess excellent communication skills, general market knowledge and the desire to excel, sign up for an on-campus interview on October 3, 1994 in the Career Center. 
If you are unable to arrange an interview call: 
or send resume to: OLDE Discount Stockbrokers National Recruiting 751 Griswold Street Detroit, MI 48226 
~OLDE 
DISCOUNT STOCKBROKERS Member NYSE and SIPC 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
-~ ~ --~--­
----~-:---:-:-------------:-­
The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 26, 1994 
• SMC Vou.eva;u.L 

Belles split four over weekend 


-. 
continued from page 20 
first half, he had a free kick that was saved by goalkeeper Scott Coufal, only because Coufal slipped and his flailing arms knocked the ball aside. In the second half, Oates had another chance on a free kick near midfield that cleared the defense and bounced off the top crossbar. 
"We had our opportunities, but we didn't capitalize on them," Berticelli said. 
Late in the second half, with the Irish appearing to be close to tying the match, Maisonneuve delivered the killing blow with a shot from the left side of the box that one hopped past goalkeeper Bert Bader in the 79th minute. 
"They have a great midfield , Berticelli explained. "Maisonneuve with the amount of goals he has for a midfielder is great. He has the ability to break the other teams back." 

as they started out flat against La Salle. Yet, after the slow first half, the Irish finally ex­ploded for four goals in the sec­ond half. 
Midfielder Konstantin Koloskov provided the spark for the Irish. After not playing in the Indiana game, he scored the hat trick. His first goal came off a converted penalty kick after he was tackled in the penalty box during a break away. His other two goals came off the rebounds of shots from Oates and Mathis that he followed up and muscled past the goalkeeper Uri Fedortchenko. 
"Konstantin deserves a lot of credit," Berticelli said. "He didn't play Friday so he was the logical choice and he stepped up and did it." 
The first goal of the game came from Oates, off an assist from midfielder Keith Carlson, twenty minutes before he re­ceived his red card. 
by KARA MASUCCI 
Sports Writer 
Bump! Set! Spike! 

The Saint Mary's volleyball team went 2-2 this weekend in a tournament in Dubuque, Iowa, bringing their record to 4-4. 
They lost to Viterbo College and Toe College on Friday night, but came back on Saturday to beat Cornell College and Rockford College. 
According to team member Betsy Connolly, Friday's loss is attributed to the inexperience of the team. 
"We are a very young team. On Friday, we showed our lack of experience. There were a lot of ups and downs to our play because we were mentally not in the game," said Connolly. 
Team captains Kelley Prosser and Ann Lawrence agree with Connolly and feel that the inexperience of the team was behind their losses on Friday night. 
"I think we are a young team with a lot of inexperience. There are only three upper­classmen. It's hard to express how to push yourself [with in­experience]. That is something to learn through experience," said Lawrence. 
Whether the problem on Friday night was from poor mental preparation, lack of communication on the court, or 
MoNcLw. Ouohtt~ 17 
8:00 p. M Ct Nll~l\l ltMI 
VAipARI\i'-.0 lJNiVI R'>IIY Arldt II( ... 
Rt:UH.AiiON c~Nnf{ 
VAlpARAiso, INdiANA 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STIJDY PROGRAM IN 

TOLEDO. SPAIN 
INFORMATION MEETING 


Hl'l'H 
PROFESSOR CARLOS JEREZ-FARRAN 
Tuesday September 27, 1994 4:30pm 140 DeBartolo 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 
They're hot. 

Notre Dame's fall sports 
.. 
teams have comined for an overall record of 28-7! 

Stop in at SUBWAY for a HOT Meatball, Steak and Cheese or Pizza Sub! 
the team's inexperience, the Belles came together on Saturday to beat Cornell in five games and Rockford in three straight games, according to defensive player Susie Aldridge. 
"On Friday, we had trouble keeping focus, we were not mentally in the games. On Saturday, we stayed focused and talked to each other [on the court] more," said Aldridge. 
According to Lawrence, the Belles did play better on Saturday; however, they need to work on their consistency in order to prepare for this week's match-ups with Northpark College on Tuesday and The University of Chicago on Thursday. 
AdMISSiON PRiCE: 526.00 &$24 00 
Ticku OuTlETs: T1cknMASTFR, (AR'>ON 
PiRiE Scon .\Nd V.xlpARAiso Lhi\ ERsirv 
FoR MoR£ li\IOR~1ATIOI', C-xll (219) 46-t-52)) OR (219) 46-t-5270 l)R TitkU~lA'ii[R (21'-1) 272-NN (hJI~\~) v.. d (}12) 55l)-1)12 (1ll1\0I'l) 
\.1/p,lf,Jiso Uni1·l•r•il\· IS con1 t'lllt'IJ[il /oc,Hl'li tl/i US HJ.' On/~· 1 hc,ur ~c1u tht'.ISI o( CI!H ,tgo On/\ II .! /11 lur' from ( .hll .l.~n·s 1n•sr 'UI>urh~ ( )n/~ -IS milt•, t:t~m _\null! Ht•n, I 
17:30 SATURDAY NIGHT! I 
13th-ranked 
NOTRE DAME 
vs. 

LOUISVILLE 
VOLLEYBALL 

JACC Main Arena ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 
• 1 1 • 1 I o' I I I • I • I''' I' I I I I 
• • • 1 I 1 1 1 I 1 I I I It I I I • 

Monday, September 26, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
01-1 G~&»VP /IE. 'I/!-\.... w......l> ~" 
NAT£. IT ltJI\1. LII(E. h-IF TH E'j rvs,-A :SnJP11> 
CANC.EL.LE:D 
fY\EL.R~E.
Sc.•EI"'-E Ficn<>N 
l'L.AcE?
'SilovJ. 

CAL YIN AND HOBBES 
DAVE KELLETT 
BILL WATTERSON 


THE.IR OPINION . 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Protection in a purse 5 Start, as a trip 11 Actor Max -Sydow 14 Lawyer Dershowitz 15 Dragon's prey 16 Author Levin 11 Ex-heavyweight champ 19 Galley slave's tool 20"-been had!" 21 Bad grades 22 "Is that so?" 24 Colonist 2&Rock's-Vanilli 27 Brit. ref. work 
28 Triangular-
sailed ships 30 Pencil name 33 Hotel lobby 34"1ch-ein 
Berliner" 36 "Famous" 
cookie man 37 Little bits 38 Dumb ox 39 Fourposter 40 Linen shades 41 Leafy shelter 42 Small seals 44 Journalist Nellie 45 Get rid of, in 
slang 4& Deejay's need 50 Los Angeles 
player 52 Orbit period 53 Lumberjack's 
tool 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
. SAT10N. 
54 Singer­
Rose 55 Noble acts 58-time 
(golfer's starting point) 59 Niagara Falls craft? &o "Java" player AI &1 "-.-. day now 
&2 The "E" of H.R.E. 
&3 Chocolate­covered morsels 
DOWN 
1 Baseball's 

Roger 2 Extant 3 Middy opponent 4 Epilogue 5 Ran the show &Almighty 7 Lobster eaters' 
accessories &Hubbub 9 Second drafts 
11 A concert­master holds it 12 Kind of vaccine 
18 Ambition less one 
computer software 

2970, e.g. 30 Early Beatles describer 
31 "Rag Mop" brothers 32 Legendary 
bluesman 33 Onward 35 Neither's mate 37 It sometimes 
comes in bars 38 Cassidy portrayer William 


40 Uganda airport 48 Strive 49 Schick et al. 
41 Boombox sound so Disk contents 
51 The yoke's on43Jazz date them 
44 Long-eared 52 Cosmonautpooch 
Gagarin 46 Witch, at times 56 Dada founder 
47 Fine cloth 57-NaNa 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
"One day, Wilson, I'll be sitting at that desk." 

lver Get ~omebody Totally Wasted~ 
TAKE THE KEYS 
CAll ACAB 
fAKE ASTAND 


lim!/llfllinlilfili:li!l!ttlu:ll'llllillllii 
THANKS TO THE STUDENTS WHO TURNED TN THE CABLE SURVEYS. STUDENT GOVERNMENT WILL BE PREPORTING TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES ON THURSDAY CONCERNING THE INSTALLATION OF CABLE IN THE RESIDENCE HALLS. 
Any questions about this or for current weather information please call 
1--4554. 

-
.. 
... 

-~~-----------­
'\\I' I' l' \I\ i I 1 I I 0 1 I' I I • 
\ t \I I • I 1 I 1 tIT I I 1 I' t I I I' 
Zellars, Irish run over Boilermakers 


SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, September 26, 1994 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

Hoosiers slip 'n' slide past Irish in the mud 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Wisconsin-Milwaukee. Sports Writer ''I'm upset and there's noth­ing I can do," Oates said. "It's Welcome to Woodstock '94 at 
not so much that it's on TV 
Bill Armstrong Stadium, or was (Wake Forest), but it's the team that water polo at the Bill were playing"Armstrong Aquatic Center? 
"We'll do nothing different," 
Actually it was the soccer coach Mike Berticelli said. 
match in which Notre Dame "Some one will have to stepmen's team lost to Indiana last up."Friday by a score of 2-0. 
In the match against Indiana, 
The term soccer game is the Hoosiers took the lead on used liberally as the whole goal by midfielder Brian game appeared to be the Maisonneuve in the 30th 
National Championship of slip minute. This goal typified the 
-
'n' slide. Yet, excuses aside, it whole game as his shot from was a game the Irish could the left side of the penalty box have won. 
bounced of three players and So, to even out the weekend, 
than finally off an Irish de­the Irish beat up conference ri­fender before going in. val La Salle 4-0 yesterday and Yet, even after the cheapraised their record to 5-3 and goal, the Irish never let down their conference record to 2-1. and had some great chances to In the win, the Irish lost for­
score. ward Tim Oates for two games Oates provided the best because of a red card. He will 
chances for the Irish. In the 
miss the nationally televised first half, he had a free kick match at Wake Forest and the match against conference foe see SLIDE Ipage 18 
SyRIAN AKEY played." out of three in our backfield Associate Sports Editor The game was played in front who are out." of 3468 fans, the largest crowd "It's a difficult situation, but 
According to Notre Dame in Notre Dame women's soccer we can still play because we women's soccer coach Chris history, and the 4th largest in have so much depth. That's Petrucelli, there are two points NCAA women's soccer history. something I could not have said of measure for every game: Petrucelli acknowledged the ef­in past seasons." how a team plays and how a fect the vocal crowd had on The Irish began to display team scores. Notre Dame's intensity. their depth already on Sunday,
"If you're only going to do one "It really got the players go­primarily with increased play­of those well in a game," said ing," said Petrucelli. "They re­ing time for transfer Amy Van Petrucelli, "it may as well be ally responded to the crowd." Laecke. scoring." One downside to the game "Injuries created the oppor­
The Irish, who played well in was the loss of defender Ashley tunity for more playing time," Friday's 4-0 dismantling of Scharff, who sprained liga­said Petrucelli, "but Amy has Indiana, had to settle for scor­ments in her left ankle. Scharff earned the opportunity to play ing seven goals on Sunday as will be out of the lineup at least because of the way she's been they thrashed Cincinnati with­two weeks, just as the Irish be­playing." out playing a spectacular game. gin the toughest three weeks of Van Laecke's performance on 
"Against Indiana we may their schedule. Sunday included a goal less have had our best performance "This is a horrendous time for than two minutes into the sec­of the season," said Petrucelli. something like this to happen," ond half, the first of five scores "We were so intense and physi­said Petrucelli. "Julie Vogel is for the Irish during the period. cal. That was the most physical out for the season, so that's two 
a Notre Dame team has ever 

see IRISH Ipage 17 



of note... 
I 
I Dome trophy stays home 
I ~­
I 
Check inside for remarks on the
The volleyball team won the Golden Dome 
I 
stunning defeats of both
Tournament over the weekend 
~ 
Michigan and Miami
See page 17 






