
~150 YEARS~ 
~NOTRE DAME·IN ~ 
TI IE INDLPFNDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Refugees aided by ND student 
By LIZ FORAN  deal with refugee situations."  derstand it herself.  
Assistant News Editor  From the main officer, Garvey  "We have an arms embargo  
then went on a two-week tour  against the Bosnian Muslims,  
Growing up in different Third  of eastern Turkey before arriv­ but the Russians are supplying  
World countries, Notre Dame  ing .at the refugee camp in  the Serbs with weapons. They  
senior Cara Garvey was not  western Turkey.  really don't have a chance."  
shocked by the conditions at a  At the camp, Garvey taught  She also said that she does  
refugee camp in western  five English classes a day to  not see an end in the near fu­ 
Turkey where she spent her  Bosnian Muslims children.  ture. "At the end of the sum­ 
summer.  "It was very frustrating Tor  mer, thing were looking better,  
What shocked her, she says,  me," she added. "I don't know  and many of the refugees hoped  
is the apparent apathy from the  how to teach, and there were  they might be able to return  
rest of the world, and the re­ some who could speak a little  home soon," she said. "But now  
fusal by the United Nations to  bit and some who could speak  news reports say the fighting is  
admit that genocide is taking  quite a bit of English. I couldn't  worse than ever."  
place in the region.  speak their language at all."  Although the experience was  
"It's basically genocide in the  Garvey lived at the camp with  difficult and frustrating at  
middle of Europe -ethnic  more than 3,000 refugees in  times, Garvey said it was some­ 
cleansing. They (the Serbs)  conditions she described as  thing she would definitely do  
aren't going to stop until every  "not bad."  again. "I made a lot of great  
Bosnian Muslim is killed,"  "They lived in small pre-fab­ friends, and I learned a lot. I  
Garvey said.  ricated houses shaped like  grew up in Bangladesh, so I  
_ Garvey, 21, spent the summer  tents," she said. '"Living condi­ was already used to poverty,  
working for Development  tions were not bad, but these  but this summer opened my  
Foundations, an organization in  people are Europeans -they  eyes again. It makes me realize  
• eastern Turkey that helps im­ are used to living like we do.  how good I really have it."  
prove villages and assists with  Most of them are humiliated at  Garvey had the opportunity to  
Bosnian refugee camps.  they way they are living now."  go because her father works for  
Arriving in Turkey in May,  Garvey described the Bosnian  World Bank and knew someone  
Garvey spent the first few  Muslims as "great people."  at the Development Foundation  
weeks working in the organiza­ "They are in a very difficult  office, but she stressed that op­ 
tion's office and writing two pa­ situation," she said.  portunities are out there for  
pers, both of which were used  Garvey told of one woman  anyone who is interested in do­ 
in the United Nations  who kept asking her to help her  ing something similar.  
Emergency Management  find her son and husband.  "You just have to look," she  
Training Program.  When Garvey told her she was  said. "Many of these places  
"I wrote one paper on the  only a college student and un­ have internships and would  
Kurdish refugees (from Iraq)  able to help, the woman began  probably appreciate more  
NO Broadway TneObseNertMaureenLane  and another on the general refugee policies. I didn't know it  asking her. "Why are the Americans just sitting there?  help." After her summer experience,  
Freshman Jennifer Lewis auditions for the play "A Christmas Carol," to  then, but they both would be  Why don't they make it stop?"  Garvey said she would like to  
be performed by the Flanner-Siegfried Players later this year.  used to train others in how to  Garvey says she does not un­ do similar work next year.  

• RES!DEWCE HAu AssocumoN
Gabriel receives honorary doctorate 
Special to The Observer stores his title, "University postgraduate study at the 

Saint Mary's RHA sets 
Professor of Budapest." University of Budapest, he stud­Astrik 
Because he is a Catholic priest, ied in Paris at the Ecole Gabriel, direc­he was stripped of that title by Pratique des Hautes Etudes, the 

activities for new year
tor emeritus communist authorities follow­Sorbonne, the Ecole Nationale and professor ing their takeover of Hungary. des Chartres and the College de 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI improving the publicity that
emeritus A member of the Notre Dame France. He fled Hungary in 
News Writer campus events receive in order
the Medieval faculty since 1948, Gabriel di­194 7 and served for a year as a 
to improve student partici­

Institute and rected the University's Medieval guest professor at the Pontifical 
Making students more aware pation.
director of the Institute from 1953 to 1974. Institute of Medieval Studies in ­
of campus activities is the pri­Another objective of the RHA
Frank Folsom During this period he oversaw Toronto before coming to Notre 
mary object of the Saint Mary's this year will be to work in con­
Am brosiana Astrik Gabriel the acquisition of 17,000 rolls Dame. He became a United 
College Residence Hall junction with the Notre Dame
Microfilm and of microfilm reproductions of States citizen in 1953. 
Association (RHA) this year. Hall President's Council.
Photographic Collection at the manuscripts and 2,500 slides A corresponding member of 
RHA also hopes to plan many Cherubini hopes for an "ex­
University of Notre Dame, re­and 12,000 glossy photographs the French Academie des 
activities that will draw atten­change of representatives to
ceived an honorary doctorate of illuminated manuscripts and Inscriptions et Belles Lettres, 
tion and increase student relay information between both 
from the University of Budapest drawing s from the Biblioteca Gabriel is also a fellow in the 
participation. campuses so that there is bet­
on May 13. Ambrosiana in Milan. Medieval Academy of America, 
RHA acts as a coordinator ter communication between
Gabriel, a Hungarian native Gabriel was graduated from an honorary doctor of the 
between Student Government both schools." 
who received his doctoral de­the Szechenyi Real-Gymnasium Ambrosiana Library in Milan, 
and the student body, accord­Many activities are in the 
gree from the University of in 1926 and entered the Order and a corresponding member of 
ing to President Jen Cherubini. 
Budapest in 1936, was particu­of Canons of Premontre the the Bavarian Academy of 
A major focus this year will be
larly pleased that the honor re-same year. In addition to his Sciences. see RHA I page 3 

New co01puters offer students help outside classroo01 
Editors' Note: The following is the last in a three part series examining the staus and capa­bilities ofUnviersity Computing. 
By Brad Prendergast News Writer 
Whenever Brian Fitzpatrick wants to review his class notes for his chemical engineering class and his professor is not available, he doesn't have to wait. 
All the junior has to do is go to .any of the computer clusters on campus and look up Chemical Engineering 344 on the Mosaic program, and every­thing he needs to know is at his fingertips. 
The availability of lecture notes is just one of the many educational uses of computers that have students and profes­sors excited. Programs such as Mosaic and Courseware have altered the way students study, making it in many instances more convenient. 

"It's great," Fitzpatrick said. "I can go to the computer lab and find everything from class notes to the answers for home­work and tests." 
Professors have taken advan­tage of computers as well. 
Jeff Kantor, a professor of chemical engineering, was one of the first professors to make his notes available to students such as Fitzpatrick via Mosaic, and he uses computers in class­room instruction as well. 
"Last year, I taught a chem­
~Univers!ty~Computing 
Where We Stand 
istry class with Prqfessor Dave Leighton in DeBartolo, where we could use the monitors in the classroom," Kantor said. "We could work our way through different visual docu­ments by using Mosaic on the screen. It was a vital part of the course." 
While not all professors have made their notes available to Mosaic and Courseware pro­grams, the significant majority have. 
Edward Kline, professor of English and director of the Freshman Writing Program, introduced the Daedalus writ­ing program to the freshman English classes three years ago, and the results have been posi­tive. 

"I think students are writing better," he said. "One of the benefits of the use of computers is that students are willing to do more writing. Students can do more revisions more easily on computers." 
Writing classes use the pro­grams for getting started on topics, revising, collaborating on topics with peers, and edit­ing, Kline said. 
An outlining program called Inspiration helps students or­ganize their ideas, and reviews on proper grammar are pro­vided by the Freshman Writing Tutorial. Also included is a suggestion list that provides 182 ways of starting on a topic. 
The programs are designed to keep students involved and pre­vent students from slipping through without learning the necessary techniques. 
"These programs are inter­active," Kline said. "You're not just passive. These programs prompt you to do a task, and if you don't do it, then the com­puter will turn itself off. 
"When you do something," Kline continued, "the computer will encourage you or tell you, 'Hey buddy, you're doing it wrong.'" 
Instructors have grown 
see OUC I page 3 

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Wednesday, September 21, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


The real clear and present danger 
A short while ago, Tom Clancy wrote a book about the world coming to the edge of a nuclear war during the turbulent warming years of the former Soviet Union. In "The Sum of all Fears," Middle Eastern terrorists manage to attain nuclear material, hire ex-East German scientist to make it bomb ready, and then smug­gle it over to the United States. The terrorists then place the bomb next to Mile High Stadium, during a super bowl, and set it ofT when they are a safe distance away. 

The climax of the story is quickly reached with age-old policy machines and miscommu­nication threaten world wide nuclear war, until Jack Ryan-hero extraordinaire in Clancy's world-comes in to save the day, and prevents the inevitable. The heroes ride ofT into the sunset, and all is good with the world. 
Recently, scientists from both the former Soviet Union and U.S. met to discuss the dan­ger of the ever spreading nuclear material in the world today. There were at least three dis­coveries of smuggled nuclear material this past summer. Although in those instances it was only enough to perform tests on, and not really capable of bomb creation, the possibility of enough material to be smuggled out of the for­mer Soviet Union exists. 
The danger of a nuclear war seems to be gone. Russia and the U.S. have worked out agreements to not target each other, and many of the republics are returning or dismantling their weapons. Gone are the days of detente, and of taking Khrushchev to the edge. Gone are the days of civil defense tests, and Mondale-esque ad campaigns. In the eyes of many, nuclear war is no longer a real threat. 
Oh sure, North Korea might have nukes, and Iraq may try, but who will want to get into an all out war with the single most powerful nuclear state in he world? 
As a result, most of these reports have been relegated to the back pages of the newspapers, treated as international news fillers. There is no governmental commentary from anyone about this matter, no public outcry for reform, and it seems that many are pretending that the problem doesn't exist, if not ignoring it alto­gether. 
But this is only the start of the problem. You see, while in "The Sum of all Fears," Jack Ryan was considered a hero for stopping world wide nuclear war, Mr. Clancy conveniently forgot about all the people in Mile High stadium, all the people in the surrounding area, and the majority of Denver. Sure, the world was saved, but how many hundreds of thousands would have died in such a case. 
The same could exist now. How would you like your "favorite" radical group possessing such a item of destruction? What if the UN dis­appeared in a cloud of plasma and ash? How about the White House? What about Chicago? Your worst nightmares are now the limit. 
While smuggling never was easy, and the delicate nature of nukes makes the clandestine shipping of radioactive material much harder, it is far from impossible. The technology exists today for one individual to take control of thou­sands of lives, and there are plenty of organi­zations that are willing to pay for it. 
'Fhe views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 


•  TODAY'S STAFf  
News  Production  
Vivian Gembara  Kira Hutchinson  
Edward Imbus  Tara Grieshop  
Sports  
Joe Villinski  Accent  
Tim Sherman  Kym Kilbride  
Viewpoint  
Krista Nannery  Graphics  
Lab Tech  Zoe Marin  

• Wmn.D AT AGLANCE 

Parents find that nanny background checks are needed 

NEW YORK 
The young parents knew some­thing was amiss: Since they hired a new babysitter two months earlier, their toddler suffered recurring dia­per rash and their telephone bills were unusually high. With the help of a tiny camera concealed in a kitchen light, their suspicions were confirmed. 
"The sitter was on the phone 95 percent of the day. She didn't even take a break when feeding the little girl," said New York private detec­tive Joseph Cialone, who exposed the neglectful nanny on video. 

While most child-care providers are trustworthy, with clean records, some conceal undesirable qualities or shadier pasts that make them unsuitable for many lines of work, most of all watching children. A growing number of nervous parents are hir­ing professional investigators like Cialone and Beltrante to weed out potential Nannies from Hell from the Mary Poppinses. 
Ousted executive gets $34 million 
WILMINGTON, Del. 
A jury awarded $34 million to the ousted president of 
Dart Group Inc. Tuesday in the latest twist in a messy 
and public family fight for control of the book, auto parts 
and real estate empire. The U.S. District Court jury 
decided Haft had been fired without due cause by his 
father, 73-year-old Dart Chairman Herbert Haft. "I 
won't be going back. There's too many problems there," 
Robert Haft, 41, said afterward. "I'm going to start 
another business or be associated with another one," he 
said. The two-week trial was one of a number of legal 
fights among members of the wealthy Haft family, whose 
holdings are estimated at between $500 million and $1 
billion. Robert Haft's jury award, reached after about 
three hours of deliberations, granted him exactly what he 
had sought: breach-of-contract damages of $18.8 million 
from Dart Group, $12.8 million from its Crown Books 
Corp. subsidiary, and 100,000 shares of Crown, valued at 
$2.4 million. His attorney, David Hensler, said he 
expects Judge Sue Robinson, who presided over the trial, 
to also award an additional $1.5 million in Crown stock 
in a related action. Attorneys for the Dart companies 
declined to comment. 
Hundreds of rail bridges at risk 

MOBILE, Ala 
After Amtrak's worst rail disaster occurred almost a 
year ago, the Coast Guard found hundreds of rail bridges 
vulnerable to a marine crash like the one that sent the 
Sunset Limited careening into a swamp. In its final 
report released Tuesday, the National Transportation 
Safety Board recommended a sweeping inspection of rail 
and highway bridges, saying the lack of such a probe 
likely contributed to the Sept. 22, 1993, crash that killed 
47 people. A Coast Guard survey of rail bridges over 
waterways after the derailment found 500 needing atten­
tion. Federal rail officials are still analyzing the inspec­
tions to decide exactly what safety precautions should be 
taken. Bridges at the highest risk for a catastrophic acci­
dent should be first to be outfitted with warning signs, 
lighting, navigation markers and other safety equipment, 
the NTSB said. The board's report also said the 
Department of Transportation should also convene a task 
force to conduct an expanded study that would include 
highways that span waterways. 
A random sampling of private investigators shows more have been devoting part of their prac­tices to investigating child-care providers in recent years. At the same time, businesses have cropped up to help working par­ents make the right babysitting choices or to keep tabs on sitters after they are hired. 
Beltrante said he's handling about 25 percent more child-care, · cases this year than last and expects even more next year. 
To be sure, 55 percent of women with children ages 6 and under are in the work force today and most rely on outsiders to watch their kids. Only 20 percent use relatives, statistics show. "There are more people looking for nannies than there 
are nannies available," said Dana Friedman, co-presi­
dent of the Families and Work Institute, a New York­
based non-profit research firm. "Most (nanny) agencies 
don't do a good job screening ... because most of them 
are just looking for warm bodies." 
Space shuttle detours to California 
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE, Calif. 
Space shuttle Discovery and its six astronauts glided through clear skies to a flawless desert landing Tuesday after an 11-day mission that included the first untethered spacewalk in a decade. Two days of storminess at Cape Canaveral forced NASA to bring the shuttle to California for the second time this year. The last diversion was in April when bad weather also interfered with a Florida landing. NASA prefers Florida's Kennedy Space Center to Edwards because the detour costs $1 million and takes one week to ferry a shuttle cross-country atop a jumbo jet. While in orbit, a $25 million laser machine aboard Discovery bounced about 2 million light pulses ofT clouds and Earth's surface for a global climate study. The shut­tle crew also released and later retrieved a satellite that focused its instruments on the sun's corona, or outer atmosphere. Astronauts spent several days maneuvering an 82-foot boom in front of Discovery's steering jets to measure the damaging effects of shuttle exhaust. The information is needed before Atlantis docks with the Russian Mir space station next year. The first untethered spacewalk in 10 years also was conducted last week by astronauts Mark Lee and Carl Meade. 
Einstein memorial statue sought 
PRINCETON 
He reshaped the most fundamental ideas about time and space. Relatively speaking, however, Albert Einstein is unheralded in the town where he worked. Professor Melvin Benarde thinks it's a shame that Princeton has no memorial to the physicist, and he is pressing for a statue. At a Borough Council meeting last month, however, only one of the six council members voted in favor. The others abstained because of the opposition of residents who believe Einstein, a modest man, would have opposed a memorial. Nonsense, says Benarde, who points out that Einstein posed for a portrait bust in 1952 that was the basis for a 21-foot statue that now stands outside the National Academy of Sciences in Washington. Einstein died in 1955, more than 20 years after he fled Nazi Germany and joined the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton. Benarde, a professor of public health at Temple University in Philadelphia, said he got his idea for a statue after two French tourists asked him fQr di­rections to Einstein's house. He realized then how little there was to show that Einstein lived in Princeton. 



Mike Hungeling 

The Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta  77  60  Dallas  84  67  New Orleans 86  66  
Baltimore  72  56  Denver  65  38  New York 73  60  
Boston  80  45  Los Angeles 80  65  Philadelphia 76  59  
Chicago  75  63  Miami  88  76  Phoenix  95  80  
Columbus 79  55  Minneapolis 60  53  

--------------~------------------------~--------~------------~----------------~-------~----------~--, 
Wednesday, September 21, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page3 Residence Life. All students 
participating in the dance must



Nuclear reductions on hold RHA 
By ROBERT BURNS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Concerned that Russia might re-emerge as a military threat, the Clinton administration has decided against substantial new reductions in the U.S. nuclear arsenal, Defense Secretary William Perry said Tuesday. 
"The most important reason to be concerned about the fu­ture is that Russia still has about 25,000 nuclear weapons -many more than enough to threaten our national survival," Perry said. 
Perry said the United States already has reduced its arsenal of strategic, or long-range, nu­clear arms to 8,000 as set by the first Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, even though that treaty has not yet officially entered into force. A second START treaty, not yet ratified by the Senate or the Russian parliament, would reduce U.S. and Russian strategic arsenals to 3,500 warheads each. 
Some private defense experts have recommended large addi­tional cuts in the U.S. arsenal, first to 2,000 warheads and later to as few as 100. Some also advocate destroying, rather than just storing, war­heads that are taken out of ser­vice. 
theRobert Morris Gallery 
Limited Editions Fine Art Photo Silverprints Local Artists 

arrive by ten o'clock. 
Other RHA activities tenta­tively include: 
• 
A Halloween Party spon­sored by SAB and Dalloway's, which would feature pumpkin carving, story telling and a ma­gician has been planned. 

• 
A Wacky Winter Olympics, again sponsored together with SAB has been discussed. 

• 
Plans for Alcohol Awareness Week have been proposed. 



The main rationales offered for continuing to reduce the size of U.S. and Russian nuclear arsenals are to lessen the chance of a nuclear accident or attack, and to encourage other nations to give up their weapons or forgo making more. 
But in a policy address to the Henry Stimson Center, Perry indicated that a lengthy admin­istration study, dubbed the Nuclear Posture Review, has concluded that it's too early to consider substantial new arms reductions and that the U.S. 
continued from page 1 
planning stages, and Cherubini hopes to "improve student involvement" this year through increased publicity. 
Preliminary ideas for Halloween and Christmas activ­ities have been introduced, but nothing has been officially de­cided as of yet. 
RHA helps coordinate resi­dence hall dances, and was in­formed last night of a new rule handed down from the Office of 
military must be prepared to reverse recent arms cuts in an 
ouc
emergency. 
continued from page 1 
interesting side effects. in Kantor's classes, students can get a complete and current list of their grades at any time via a grade reporter. 
"Students like the grade re­porter," Kantor said. "They can see exactly where they stand -even at three o'clock in the morning -and plus they can make sure that I haven't made a mistake in recording their grades. Without the re­porter, how could they see if 1· made a mistake?" 
"It's really neat," Fitzpatrick agreed. "You can get an up-to­the-minute review." 
To ensure the privacy of ev­ery individual's grades, the re­porter is designed so that each student can gain access only to his or her grades. 
"We worked hard to get the privacy issue done right. That was a key concern," Kantor said. "But the system is as se­cure as e-mail." 
Mosaic can access text not only on campus, but also worldwide, which means that students and professors can get information from other cam­puses as well. 
"I can get notes from the 
University of Florida, for ex­
ample, and my notes were used 
at the University of Tennessee," 
Kantor said. "I was getting 
queries from students there." 
While the worldwide connec­
tions between bodies of infor­
mation can be exciting, some­
times there can be disadvan­
tages. 
"If you know you can get the notes for a class through the computer," Fitzpatrick said, " there is a disincentive to go to class if you're pressed for time or just lazy." 

Please Recycle The Observer 
13TH a,. N AL 
COLORADO 

..
•••
K 
LL FREE INFOKMAnON AND IIUERVA110NS 

1•800•SUNCHASE 
Decorate Your Dorm 
with a black & white poster from an original Silverprint. Also post cards and playing cards available. 
The Old Bag Factory 1100 North Chicago Avenue Goshen, Indiana 46526 • 219-534-5648 
receptive to computer usage, according to Kline. 
"We've had 100% participa­tion from the teachers in the Writing Program," he said. "In the first year there were some Doubting Thomases, but by the end of the first year, those who were the doubters were the most enthusiastic." 
Students and teachers are relying on computers more and more. 
"They're defmitely an asset," 


----~-----~ -------~~-~~-~ 
page 4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 21, 1994 

Big ~icreen T.v. • Darb • 3 Pool Tables 3:00p.m. -3:00 a.m. -~o Come see where Rudywas filmed... ~ I 
441 E. I aSalle 
South Bend, IN (219)233-5326 
:~-: ·_ ( 
~ ~ 
/. z 
w 
LaSal~ 
~ ,.t,\rM JlltY Tacos, Burritos, &Beverages 
\JI:_ .,; 
~~~ 
lftu~~NU 
& CANTINA 
Daily Specials 
Munchies Served 'till: 
12:30 weekdays 1:30 weekends 
Big Screen T.V.'s Pool, Darts, & Bands 
Monday-Wednesday 11:00 a.m.-1:00 a.m. • Thursday--Saturday 11:00 a.m.-2:00a.m. Sunday 12:00 p.m.-9:00p.m. 
Located just a few steps from Turtle Creek and Campus View! 
(219) 2 7 7.-JACK 1827S. Bend Ave. • The Campus Shoppes 
Darts ·:·,_ Pool Tables 
INVEST WISELY IN _..... L--~ 
I'EIINY WEDNESDAYS 
MRY WIDMRDAY STMTtNG SEPT. 14 FOR liEVBr( VERYt VERY POORI 
~:' 
j.,:,,, 


Juke Box ''.~'Ill""~ 
~ i ' 


TV Screens:­
256-9993 
3703 N Main -Mishawaka 1/2 Block south ofEdison 
Area'S only 

Micro brewery! 
Study Booths Baby Back Ribs Puburrito Irish Meat Pie Sandwiches Appetizers Outdoor Beergarden 61" Widescreen T.V. 
·Hey_ Seniors, ~y go to the Alumnt Sen tor Club? 
...great location...campus bandsI 
I • 

friendly atmosphereI Friday lunches
I I 

I I • • I
the only club on-campusI theme nightsI lots of dance space ...rockin' Wedn~sday nights..• 
PENNY WEDNE~DAY~ 
.. 
•c >• E • t-=
c 
-.D c ~ •I
-.. 
0
0 
0 
" 
A. 
••at A\ 

page 5 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 21, 1994 

Aircraft fired at during relief flight For01er Pre01ier to be 
By SAMIR KRILIC The Serb-imposed cutoff of changed mortar frre. Associated Press utilities persisted for the fifth The ·fighting apparently start­

charged in scandal
day, prompting Lt. Gen. Sir ed with a government infantry 
SARAJEVO 

The humanitarian airlift feed­ing much of Sarajevo was sus­pended today after an aircraft was shot at just hours after it resumed. 
And in a foretaste of another winter of war. residents of the capital were left without water. heat and in the dark again to-· day due to Serb reluctance to restore utilities to Sarajevo. 
With the Bosnian capital rela­tively quiet following the worst fighting in half a year over the weekend, U.N. aid officials had lifted a one-day suspension of relief flights. But they quickly reimposed it after discovering bullet holes in the fuselage of a French supply plane after it flew out of the city. 
Maj. Kos Sol. a U.N. spokesman in Sarajevo, said flights resupplying U.N. peace­keepers were continuing. He had no additional details on the shooting. 
Michael Rose, commander of 
U.N. troops in Bosnia; to meet with Bosnian Serb officials in their stronghold of Pale, east of Sarajevo. 
With potable water. natural gas and electricity all originat­ing outside the city, Serbs sur­rounding Sarajevo can choke them off anytime. 
Temperatures hovered around 45 degrees at daybreak today, underlining the depen­dency of city residents on Serb goodwill-wood and other fu­els are next to nonexistent after two winters of siege, leaving most Sarajevans counting on gas for heating and cooking. 

Lt. Col. Tim Spicer, Rose's spokesman, told reporters that Sarajevo was calmer than it has been since the weekend, when three people were killed and dozens wounded as govern­ment and Serb troops ex-attack supported by mortars inside in the city. That touched off retaliatory frre by besieging Bosnian Serbs, who targeted the city center. 
U.N. officials said both sides violated the February agree­ment to keep heavy weapons at least 20 kilometers -12 miles -from the city and warned Monday that they faced possi­ble NATO air attacks if the shelling did not stop. 

In northeast Bosnia, Serbs herded hundreds more Muslims across the front lines Monday, leaving only a scattering of non-Serbs in the region. 
The exodus from the towns of Bijeljina and Janja showed the determination of ethnic Serb nationalists to force out the last few thousand non-Serbs who have endured more than two years of harassment and depri­vation. 
A~~~mr~ll.®m Wrr~~llim1~m~ ~®]J)lli®Wl®lr~~ &ml~ ~Ullillll®lr~ Announcing the National Security Education Program Competition Win an NSEP scholarship to study abroad in regions of the world outside of Canada and Western Europe. Applicable to most foreign study abroad programs. Come to the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams on Monday evening, September 26, 1994 at 7 p.m. in room 131 DeBartolo  
0MPUS tV11NISTRY  Lecture Presentation "Abortion's Current Controversies: Violence, Cairo, RV486" Presenters: Dr. John Willke, M.D. Barbara Willke, R.N. Date: Wednesday, September 21, 7:30p.m. Place: Room #101, DeBartolo Hall Dr. and Mrs. Willke will give an overview of fetal development and explain the Pro~ Life stance on abortion. They will also discuss cur~ rent issues surrounding abortion such as the cur~ rent attacks on abortionists and the world popu~ lation conference in Cairo. Questions from the audience will be encouraged. Dr. Willke is President of the International Right to Life Federation and President of Life Issues Institute. He and Mrs. Willke have been among the original leaders of the Pro~ Life movement. Co-sponsored by Notre Dame Right-to-Life and Campus Ministry, University of Notre Dame  

By ELAINE GANLEY 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
Former Premier Laurent Fabius and two former mem­bers of his Cabinet will be charged this month with com­plicity in poisoning hemophili­acs who received AIDS-tainted blood products, justice officials said Tuesday. . 
Fabius, former Social Affairs Minister Georgina Dufoix and former Health Minister Edmond Herve will appear be­fore the special Court of Justice of the Republic at separate hearings from Sept. 27 to Sept. 30, the officials said. 

The court, created a year ago, is the only body with the authority to try ministers for crimes allegedly committed while in office. 
The decision to charge the three follows two years of legal maneuvering by hemophiliacs and their families, who sought government accountability in a scandal that shook France's state-r.un health care system and contributed to the Socialists 1993 legislative defeat. 
The scandal grew out of reve­lations that blood products con­taminated with HIV, the AIDS virus, were knowingly distrib­uted to hemophiliacs in 1985. About 1,200 hemophiliacs were contaminated with the AIDS virus as a result, and more than 300 have died. 
The decision to charge Fabius and the two other ministers adds a new political dimension to the scandal, which has until now been officially blamed on medical officials alone. Four lower-ranking health officials were convicted in 1992, and a new charge of poisoning has recently been brought against three of them. 
Fabius, who maintains he was not consulted about dis­tributing the tainted blood, said Tuesday he welcomed the judi­cial proceedings as an opportu­nity for "justice to accomplish its mission so that the truth is clearly established." Herve also said he was pleased he will :·rmally be able to explain my­self. ... It will allow me to de­fend my innocence." 
The victims' families have maintained that Fabius' gov­ernment chose not to purchase 
U.S. technology to cleanse the tainted blood or to buy an American AIDS test to screen donor blood in order to favor a French test that was being per­fected at the time. 
They also claim that any or­der to continue using the blood bank's contaminated stocks had to have originated, even if indirectly, further up the health-care hierarchy. 


-~ ~--~ 
----------------------------~----­page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 21, 1994 
Eight killed·, 30 hurt in Beijing street clash 
By CHARLENE FU 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 

Even with rising crime in China, a shootout in Beijing on Tuesday that left eight people dead and more than 30 wound­ed was highly unusual in a nation that keeps a tight grip on its citizens. 
An Iranian diplomat and his son were among those killed in the early morning shootout on a major thoroughfare. 
China has a strict ban on civilian ownership of guns and ammunition and harsh penal­ties meant to deter crime. including wide use of the death penalty. 
Yet, the government reported a 20 percent increase in the number of serious and violent crimes nationwide in the first six months of this year. 
Current economic reforms have made many Chinese rich­er. But they also have led to enormous leaps in crime, drug abuse, prostitution -and the most corrupt government since the Communists took power in 1949. 
"China is becoming an increasingly anarchic society," David Shambaugh, senior lec­turer in Chinese politics at the University of London, wrote earlier this year in Current History. "China's social fabric 
' 

1-800-TALK-USA
C 
$ $
America's Inexpensive way to call collect l The fDOf&; saw Mom &Dad, the fDOf& they htttHJ to'$you ~ 
is fraying." The rush-hour -shooting ram­page occurred shortly after 7 
a.m. when a single gunman fired indiscriminately on the Second Ring Road, near a com­pound where foreign diplomats and journalists live. 
The man ran down the mid­dle of the road, firing an auto­matic rifle, probably an AK-47, witnesses said. They saw the windows of. a passing bus explode and saw the gunman shoot a motorcyclist. 
He hailed a minivan taxi and got into the back, said an Asian diplomat whose apartment faces the road. When the driver and a passenger in the front seat tried to flee. the gunman shot both at point-blank range. The passenger appeared to have died, said the diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
After shooting the two men in the minivan, the gunman fled down the road, pursued by police with automatic rifles who shot him to death. 

Officials at the Iranian Embassy said Yousef Mohammadi Pishknari and one of his sons were shot to death. · Another son was shot in the leg. 
The official Xinhua News Agency reported Mohammadi's two daughters were taken to a hospital. 
'J 




Ir·eiand asks for aid from US 
By NANCY BENAC 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A leader from one side of Northern Ireland's sectarian divide pushed President Clinton on Tuesday to increase U.S. fi­nancial aid to the troubled country as a way to help both sides live in peace. 
John Hume, the Catholic leader who helped pave the way for the IRA cease-fire, said he told President Clinton that "the next stage has to be agreement among our divided people ... and that the best as­sistance that I thought could come from the United States would be economic assistance." 
Hume got no commitment from Clinton, but said he came away with "no doubt whatso­ever of the commitment of President Clinton to do every­thing in his power to assist us and he made that very, very clear to me." 
A senior administration offi­cial, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the White House was .studying proposals to increase aid to Northern Ireland that would "reach out to both communities and help with the unemployment prob­lem." Among the ideas under discussion is some sort of task force on Northern Ireland, the official said. 
Hume said he was hoping for a committee to examine "posi­tive ways of helping, eco­nomically, Northern Ireland and the border countries which are the areas that have suf­fered the most from our trou­bles." 
Hume met with Vice President AI Gore, and Clinton joined the meeting in session. The Clinton administration planned to consult Wednesday with leaders from the other side of the dispute. 
Leaders of the Ulster Unionists, Northern Ireland's largest party and the group that gets the bulk of the pro­British Protestant vote, planned to meet Wednesday with Gore, congressional leaders and State Department officials. 
The administration also is considering g1vmg Gerry Adams, leader of the IRA's po­litical wing, a visa to visit the northeastern United States. 



General Meeting Thursday, September 22nd 8 p.m. in the Sorin Room 

e 

u;itb CD-KOM, Af11le' Co/Qr Plus W Oi!play, 11!1/b CD-ROM, A{11le'MulllpleScan 15 Oi!play, ~Keyboardand mouse. ~-Key/Joardand~. 

With Apples special low student pricing, you can get aterrific deal on Macintosh; Macintosh--the worlds fastest Mac~ And because Macintosh is still the easiestpersonal com-the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the afford-puter, you won't have to dig through complex manuals. Plus, with lowstudentpricing, aMac able Macintosh Performa; which comes complete with lots ofpowerful software to help is as easy to afford as it is to use. All ofwhich makes it the ideal time to Ap 1 .,_ getyou through college. You can also choose the portable Apple" PowerBook" or the Power discover the power all college students need. The power to be yourbest~ p1e . 
·a;·:"'l......$4~·. 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB · 631-7477 


Wednesday, September 21, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Marines expand, take over Northern Haitian City 
YOUR VOTE WILL COUNT ON NOV. 81 SO BE SURE TO REGISTER TO VOTE: 10:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. & 4:30 p.m. to 7:00p.m. Wednesdav (9/21) and Thursdav (9/22) NORTH AND SOUTH DINING HALLS Notre Dame Student Coordinators of Leone for State Senate Committee: Ann Goodwin, Mollv Lajoie & Kari Husain Saint Mary's Coordinator: Jennifer Dillman For further information call: 272-1968 or 271-0469 Ad Proudly Paid For and Sponsored By: LEONE FOR STATE SENATE COMMITTEE, Dennis Dillman and Georgmne Whelan, Co-Trmurers  
~~' • .FEATURING: SATURDAY MORNING LIVE fE  


By FRED BAYLES 
Associated Press 

CAP-HAITIEN, Haiti 
U.S. Marines landed this morning in northern Haiti, ex­panding their peacekeeping mission to the country's second largest city. Curious civilians who came to the water's edge watched the show. 
In Port-au-Prince, Haitian po­lice fired shots in the air today to disburse a crowd of Haitians chasing a convoy of U.S. mili­tary vehicles. It was the first major disturbance since Amer­ican forces took control of the Haitian capital. 
At least a dozen police offi­cers went into the crowd swing­ing clubs and several shots were fired in the air from auto­matic weapons, sending the crowd scrambling. The incident occurred near the police station in Cite Soleil, a stronghold of the exiled Haitian president. 
Haitian police cooperated 
with the landing in Cap-Haitien, keeping the crowds out of the Marines' way. 
The first 200 of 1,600 Marines bound for Cap-Haitien set off at 7:20 a.m. today as 14 armored amphibious vehicles left the USS Nashville and threaded through tiny fishing vessels on the way to the city's port. 
At the same time, waves of troop-carrying helicopters, sup­ported by Cobra gunships, left the USS Wasp off the craggy north coast to secure the air­field on the second day of the 
U.S. operation to restore Haiti's elected government. 
The Cap-Haitien air-and-sea operation touched Haitian soil precisely at 8 a.m. There was no resistance, much like Monday when 3,000 U.S. forces took control of the Port-au­Prince airport and harbor. 
"The operation appears to be going fairly smoothly so far with cooperation between U.S. 
Marines and the Haitian peo­ple," Lt. Scott Gureck, a Navy spokesman, said today. 
After the initial wave put more than 200 Marines on shore at Cap-Haitien, the land­
. ing plan accelerated as the huge Hovercraft troop-carriers raced toward the secured beaches loaded with Humvees and more Marines. 
The Marines' objective was to secure the city of 65,000 peo­ple's port and airport, then move inland to take control of two roads and two bridges. Later in the day, they were ex­pected to move further into town to locations by the Army barracks and several police outposts. 
The docks at Port-au-Prince, meanwhile, were quiet under sunny skies this morning. U.S. ships and helicopters unloaded more troops and materiel and street vendors opened for busi­ness without incident. 
Marines expand mission to second c 
AP/Wm. J. Castello 
INTERVARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP 
BIBLE STUDY 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21 5 r 7:00P.M. AT THE CSC 
Come and hang out with a great bunch of people as we study the Bible and eat Kevin's cookies. 
Where You Go Has A Lot To Do With Where You Start! 
UJB Financial Corp. has a lot to exposed to virtually every area offer today's graduate, starting of the company. You'll receive with exciting entry-level career excellent on-the-job training, opportunities. As a top ranked, while enjoying a competitive notably progressive financial starting salary, outstanding institution, we benefits, continuous learning also offer a 
opportunities, dynamic pace and educational and solid reimbursement. potential for There are a lot of upward reasons to begin mobility. your career with 
Ifyou're our nearly $15 graduating billion organiza­with an tion. Find out all Accounting degree, you'll find about them, when you join us the solution to your expecta­on Tuesday, October 18. tions in our Auditing Division. Opportunities are available in 
You'll work in a congenial Northern New Jersey. For group comprised of other additional information, please recent graduates and will be contact your Career Center. 
RWB 

fiQIFJNANCIAL 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
----r-p

--~~~-~~-------------------~ 




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, September 21, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters M"naging Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
N~ Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Aca:nt Editor ............................... M:ory Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director, .............. Tom Lillig Saint M:ory's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer C. the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint M:ory's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either in,.tirution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Edttor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observe:. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to aU readers. Th~ free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chid 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Generallnfonnation 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 


• KiTCHEl~ AYE •LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Slo,w down, you move too fast Tradition conquers all 
"Where B,re we headed?" Why? Probably because they every once in a while to smell 

at stadium, even seats 
"What's 1~oing on?" are rushing to some place the coffee will we be able to 
It seems that everyone is al­important. (Even though there determine how sweet (or Dear Editor: ways looking at where they are is nothing going on.) So they maybe sour) life is. I can't believe people haven't figured this scheme out by now. going, without ever really tak­don't have time to hear the In her letter on September 16, Katie Gorman complains quite a ing the time to examine where answer to "What's up?" Fact is that there is an bit about not being able to get to her seat for the first home game of they are, the here and now. The thing is, we never take incredible world out there the season. 
I ran into a friend of mine the time and ask ourselves, swirling around us. Here on As a senior, I had hoped it would be well-known that no one sits the other day and instead of "Where am I right now?" or the planet of South Bend, we in his/her proper seat for football games. It's a bit of a Notre Dame asking her where she was "Exactly where have I been?" sometimes tend to isolate our­tradition: we all go camp out for tickets, we pay big money for the going, I sai.d "Where are you?" or "What is going on around selves and lose touch with the tickets (yes, we all pay $84 for the tickets), and we go to the games. "What?" she replied. "Never me?" rest of the world. We get so People fail to notice the designated seating assignments on the top mind", I said, not really ready Sometimes, our lives get so caught up in our little world of the ticket. The ticket is simply an admission to the game. That's to explain myself. "What's busy that we find ourselves that we forget about the larger what's fun about Notre Dame football games-the fact that you can going on?" jumping· one in which we live. go and stand wherever you want as long as you're in your own sec­I asked in-f r o m Just take a brief look at the tion. If you're a short person, I am sorry for you but the ushers that stead. She 
place to world around us now. Gorman complained so vehemently to cannot help you in that replied, place, Technology advances faster aspect. They are there to make sure you don't hold up a sign or "Nothing." Frank frantical­than our ability to use it. consume alcohol or smoke--things like that. 
ly trying Everyday men and women are I am a transfer student and this is my second year here. After the 
I guess. to catch writing and communicating on first home game, I understood how the "game" was played. The when we Cristinzio up with new advances in medicine, "game" I refer to is trying to find seating close to your ticket desig­a s k , the daily transportation, and thousands nation. In fact, I myself was in the wrong seat at the Michigan "What's. events of of other fields. All their work game. The true owners of that space came and asked me to move, going on?" our exis­makes the planet we live on so I did. No problem. I didn't run to the useless ushers and whine. they figure that we really don't tence, yet finding ourselves seem that much smaller. So the next time you're in Notre Dame Stadium and can't get a want to know what is going falling behind all the time. seat, either ask the people to move over or cry about it-either way, on, and we are just inquiring Sooner or later we pass out Just this past weekend, right deal! to be polite. They respond from exhaustion. in our own backyard, the "Nothing, how 'bout you?" and United States narrowly averted JOSHUA QUINN we reply "Oh, not much." So Little bits and pieces of life war with Haiti. How many peo­Junior the matter has been settled pass us by while we recover ple really kept up with that Flanner Hall that we both live essentially and charge on. We have all story? Be honest. How many of mundane lives in which noth­experienced this. They call it us really keep up with the ing ever happens. the rat race. It is a big part of world outside of this campus? 
what college is all about. Some Perspective: After the cold 
Usually questions like people are a little better than war ended, freed from the lim­"What's up?" or "How's it others at keeping up. But in itations of its bipolarism, the going?" are said in passing and the end we are all kidding our­world was thrown into a no answer is expected. I sus­selves. As soon as it seems like tremendous era of change. We pect most people would be we are winning the rat race, are the generation of that highly annoyed if someone they get faster rats. Deal with change. It is now our turn to launched into a speech about it. deal with the ramifications of everything that's going on in And I quote Ferris Bueller, the dramatic, indefatigable their life right at that moment, "Life moves pretty fast, some­changes which the world is about how they planned to play times you've got to stop and undergoing every moment of a little BBall around four, look around a little." Bueller, every day. catch an early dinner and then the true philosopher that he is, call their mom. I doubt that realized the importance of a Cristinzio is a junior computer they would want a synopsis of little self evaluation every once science major. He lives in world events either. and a while. Only by stopping Stanford Hall. 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• Domu::mmn 

WEU,. Mtl:tlM,I?vt PARTCFA ]'£,./., B/3. &XPtA!NING ITAU 
CRfAT/'43 TeAM. t()/3'R£ 8UIWN6 /fTA TWN Mu:T!NG TONIGHT: 
SOM!3THING kt4GI&AL-H!3R!3-(,(!()NT YOU COM£1 
A ?PUlA!.-PtAU-OF!JRMMS! 
I 
UH-G-1... H&5 FRoM 
D/5­
N&Y/ 

• QUOTE OF THE flAY 
''Greed is all right ... 
Greed is healthy. You can be greedy and still feel good about yourself." 
-Ivan Frederick Boesky 
-~--------------~---~-_________,_...,.._--,--,-~,.....,....,..,........-----:--·;---­
1 
I 
I


ACCENT I I 
Wednesday, September 21, 1994 page9 
SMC Writing Center eases student· anxiety 
ByPATII CARSON Around mid-semester and finals times, 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor however, Moore suggests that students make their appointments three to five days prior to the meeting. 
Do you often feel the cold beads of sweat trickle down your forehead, in How can a staff composed of only anticipation of the dreaded day when eleven women sufficiently examine such your paper is due? Do you toss and turn a vast array of paper topics and writing at night since your mind is cluttered assignments? Moore said because the with sentence fragments, unclear thesis staff is composed of students with such a statements, and too many passive wide variety of majors, it makes it possi­verbs? The Saint Mary's student should ble to handle the vast array. fret no longer. For instance, the tutor who happens to 
The Saint Mary's College Writing be a philosophy major is usually paired Center assists the student in her efforts with a student who is writing a philoso­to develop her writing skills, according phy paper. When this pairing is not pos­
to LeMans Hall senior tutor Jennifer sible, tutors rely on their personal liber­Moore. al arts background. 
Moore said that Saint Mary's students "Normally it is not too difficult to may bring their papers to the center in extend our thinking to other content any phase of the writing process. "We areas," Moore said, " because before we work with students who bring in out­begin reviewing a paper, students lines, rough drafts, final drafts, or com­explain their topic and their argument." positions. We even brainstorm for "I strongly encourage the women of paper topics and writing ideas with stu­Saint Mary's to make use of the center. dents," she said. We are not here to judge students' writ­
ing. We simply attempt to aid in the 
The center has been open for several development of their writing skills," years, much to the benefit of the stu­Moore said. dents who have put it to use. Holy Cross According to Moore, tutors want to junior Joanna Finegan said. "I use the know specifically what the student 
center because they guide me in my wants them to look for in the written due. The tutors may suggest changes nator, Cathy Thomas, interviewed these 
writing. The tutors clue me in on how work. "If the student has trouble with that will take more than one night to students, who previously had been rec­my paper could be better and where it sentence structure, for instance, we 
employ." ommended by two faculty members. doesn't need to be improved." Finegan need her to tell us that structure is one Thomas hired those students for whom said that she trusts the student tutors of her concerns," she said. 
Coming to the c~nter can only improve she had positions available, according to who review her papers since they are Usually, tutors make sure that the 
your writing, Moore said. She said that Moore. 
"recommended" by faculty. 
writer proves her thesis and uses intel­even if a student is confident with her When asked if it made her uncomfort­
Tutors are available for consultation lectual word choices. "We look for 
writing, it's always a good idea to give able to evaluate the work of her peers,in the writing center, located in room 39 coherence in a paper, along with sen­someone else a chance to read it. Moore replied, "I think that it is impor­-..of the LeMans Hall basement, on tence structure, correct syntax, and "Students fill out a form upon arrival tant for students to read the work of 
Mondays through Thursdays from 12:30 basic grammatical errors," according to at the center. This form enables us to other students. In a sense, the student 
p.m. 
to 4:30 p.m. For further assistance, Moore. 

notify their professors that these stu­evaluation is less threatening. At the the center re-opens from 7 p.m. to 10 One misconception that many students dents have been to the center," Moore center, however, we are not evaluating. 

p.m. 
on Mondays through Thursdays. hold about the writing center is that it is said. We merely make suggestions." The writing center is also open on an editing shop. Indeed, tutors are glad 


"Professors appreciate the fact that Sundays from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. to help with grammar and punctuation; students use the writing center It The most rewarding part of tutoring, 
however, the tutors' main focus is that 
reveals that their students are taking according to Moore, is knowing that the Sessions usually last one hour. the paper is well composed and that stu­initiative and making a serious effort to student writer is leaving with a better However, time available for the sessions dents feel good about what they've writ­do well in the class," she said. product. "The best part is knowing that 
depends upon how busy the center is ten, said Moore. 
The center provides a relaxing atmos­you've gotten through, that you've made 
with respect to its schedule. Holy Cross "When students leave the writing cen­phere to work. Tea, coffee, and cookies a difference. It wasn't due to the tutor's 
sophomore Jennifer Lewis said, "From ter, by no means do they carry with are offered while students and tutors instruction, but to the student's discov­my experience, Sundays are usually them a fmished product. I like to think discuss papers. Moore reiterates the ery," she said. busy at the center, so I'd advise students 
of the center as a stepping stone," fact that the student's work is not Holy Cross freshman Maran Shaugh­to make appointments in advance." according to Moore. It is essentially up judged, but improved. The center is a nessy said, "I feel like the tutors really"Though the writing center employees to the student to take the tutor's sugges­positive place to visit, which helps with want to make me a better writer." 
prefer that students make appointments tions and put them to use, she said. 
the creative process, she said. Perhaps a visit or two to the Saint 
one or two days in advance, they accept One McCandless Hall junior warns stu­The staff consists of ten Saint Mary's Mary's College Writing Center will student 'drop ins' when time permits," dents, "Try to avoid submitting your students, who are sophomores, juniors, enable fewer students to lose sleep over Moore said. paper to the center the night before it is and seniors. The writing center coordi-a thesis statement. 
• BooK Revrew 
Rudy writes his rules of the game 
By THERESA ALEMAN and Notre Dame graduate, encouragement, anger, suc­correct, Barney the Dinosaur­wanted. 
Accent Writer Rudy Ruettiger offers advice to cess, defeat, winning, losing esque society holds regarding He writes, " I got a job as the people who wish to excel in describe Rudy Ruettiger's life. competition and dedication. maintenance man at my con­He graduated third from the anything. "Rudy's Rules" is for the reader Frequently using the words dominium project. I shoveled 
bottom of his high school class Ruettiger recalls how he who has been told he could not "getting knocked on my butt" the snow in the winter and cut and went on to graduate from struggled doing odd jobs both do what he really wanted. and "working my butt off," the grass in the summer. That the University of Notre Dame before and after his graduation "Rudy's Rules" is for anyone Ruettiger describes simply was my job. When the call and to make a 
from Notre Dame in an effort to who is determined but discour­what it took for him to achieve came to go to Hollywood to movie about find a new dream after he al­aged or big on heart, but success and finally, happiness. sign, I had $56 in my checking his quest for ready lived his dream to play short-changed in God-given tal­"Well," writes Ruettiger, "I account. That was my entire the gold. His for the Irish. ent or potential. It is a book never claimed to be clever. I'm fortune." This former mainte­gold, as all Ruettiger writes in a for anyone who has ever been a simple guy. I'm not good at nance man has spent time with Notre Dame vernacular writing style for the laughed at for his dreams. In fancy talk and charts and the President in the White students common reader. He is not a short, "Rudy's Rules" is for the graphs. But I've achieved my House, been asked to make know, was Ph.D. and he has no visible Rudys of the world. It is a book dreams. And I've done it be­countless speaking engage­not found in desire to be one. "Rudy's of how to surpass mediocrity cause I never thought of why it ments, and most certainly, the form of Ruettiger Rules" is probably not for the and strive for greatness. couldn't happen. I've done it seen his name in lights. an Olympic readers who are accustomed to The language of Ruettiger's by being too dumb to make it "Rudy's Rules", beginning medal, nor was it in a pot of critiquing Kant or Hume. It is book is simple and straightfor­complicated." Anyone realizes with "Everyone can be anyone riches at the end of a rainbow, not in the noteworthy style of ward. It probably will not the irony in this statement­they want to be" painstakingly he was not even satisfied with Shakespeare or Chaucer. No spark much philosophical clearly, Notre Dame does not outlines the process whereby a having the gold on the golden Nobel prizes for literature are debate or political discourse. graduate dummies. dreamer can become a success dome as a student at Notre in Ruettiger's future. Organized much like a step-by­Ruettiger writes how his blue story. Alluding to famous ath­Dame. His gold was in the But clearly, writing great lit­step process self-help book, collar background could have letes and American heroes, spray paint on a sweaty and erature is not the goal of the "Rudy's Rules" challenges landed him a comfortable posi­Ruettiger presents stories not tattered helmet he used when author. His goal as an author readers to dream big to formu­tion in society, as a mediocre unlike his own. "Rudy's 
... 
he was a member of the and motivational speaker is to late goals and to persevere worker in an average job, but Rules" is light, airplane litera­Fighting Irish football team. teach people how to dream and until the goals are realized. he had big dreams and was ture which might just make you In his book, "Rudy's Rules", how to realize dreams. Ruettiger dispels the miscon­willing to tackle the big disap­think about where your gold author, motivational speaker, The words, discouragement, ceptions that our politically pointments to get what he lies. 

r-[____....,.___.,. 
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
•fi.eds 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2
Classl 
-----------~-­
.. 
cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 21, 1994 

L NOTICES  Desperately need a roommate or a place to live. call for details. ask for chuck·273-5299  SEATTLE A TTY'S WILL PAY TOP $FOR 2 STANFORD G.A.S (219) 289-3412  Need BYU TIX (prefer GAs) will pay good money or will trade tix to any other home game  Family flying from ALASKA for 1st NO game. Need 4 BYU ticks., stu. or G.A. PLEASE! Call shannon 291­ WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'S FOR 2 BYU GA'S. CALL SIGI AT 312-477-3357.  
Cali Dennis at (914)294-6546  6288  
Gospel singer, Terry Austen,  Part-time workers wanted weekdays.  I NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'SI Call Sean  I NEED ONE AIR FORCE TICKET­ 
appears in Standforci/Keenan chapel  Apply @ Ave Maria Press, Printing  atX1432.  Need 3 GA's for Navy or Air Force;  I need 2 or 4 PURDUE GA's  GA OR STUDENT. PLEASE CALL  
9/21 (II 7:15, hosted by 4th Day. All  Division, btwn  make an offer!  Paul-277-6433  call Molly 271-9364  X3816. THANKS!  
Welcomed!  8-4:00 p.m. $5.75 per hr.  -WANTED: BYU GA'S WILL PAY  
BIG BUCKS. CALL KRISTEN OR  Need two Standford GA'sl  -NEEDED IMMEDIATELY: 2 GAs  need 6 GAs for Navy call paul x3591  
***GILOFERS***  I need someone to type my law  KATE@ 271-0224  Call Todd x1052  FOR BYU. WILL PAY TOP $$$1  
KEENAN CHARITY  school apps. Have experience and  $$$ $$$  CALL MARY AT 273-2926  -1 NEED 2 GAs FOR MY PARENTS  
4 MAN SCRAMBLE  a little time? Please call  I need 2 PURDUE stud. tix. Cali Bill  FOR PURDUE OR STANFORD...  
SUN. OCT. 16TH  Jennifer 272-8563  x1862  Need 1 Stanford  I NEED PURDUE GA'SI WILL PAY  PLEASE CALL TOM AT 271-9576.  
TEE TIMES10-12PM  stud. orGA  $$CONTACT LA AT 284-5132  THANKS!  
$8.50 per Player  PIZZA MAKER-PART TIME­ I NEED TWO NAVY G.A.  Call Nick 289-9708  
Prizes: 1 st,2nd,3rd,  EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD  CALL MIKE X3692  Need 1 Purdue and 1 Air Force GA.  
Lngst Drive, and Clst to Pin  MONEY.  NEED 2 GA BYU tix and 2-6 GA  Call Mike at 4-3326.  SELLING BOOKLETS. LUIS  
Sign up: Ryan x3267  CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW  NEED 3 GAs or STUD. tix for PUR­ Stanford tix. Please call Rachael  2731528  
YORK  DUE call Rob x-4333  at #4667.  Have Purd Stud nx for Sale  
USED TEXTS CHEAP!Ill  257-1100.  Call Pat at 277-5176  HELP ME! NEED 3 STANFORD  
Buy & sell used books at the only  Need 6 stu. ticks for Purdue call  NEED 2 GA's for NAVY &  GAs BADLYl CALL DREW 232­ 
hip platce in town 1 0-6M-S/9-3Sun  NOW HIRING: Part-time construc­ Kevin @ 273-8699  NEED 4 GA's for BYU  We NEED 3 Stanford GAs! From  3769  
PANDORA'S BOOKS  tion help, GOOD PAY, no experi­ CALL Chris x-1353  Calif, here to visit daughter. Call  
NO ave & Howard St 233-2342  ence needed. Ask for Les at 271­ I need 2-4 GAs or 1 stud. ticket for  Ed or JoAnn at (310) 547-52951  I NEED 2 PURDUE TIX. GA's or  
0342 after 6:00p.m.  any home game! Please call soon!  I need 2 Stanford GA's x1659 Desi  girl's stud. BRIAN P. 273-8553  
PAPA JOHN'S is HIRING!  Lindi-284-5151  NEED TIX-5 BYU GA'S, 4 STAN­ 
-delivE•ry & inside personnel  NEED A ROOMMATE? CALL 255­ Deseperately need 2 st. tix for  FORD GA'S -Call Joe @x2765  NEED one stud. ticket 4 PurdueI  
-flexib,le schedule  2143.  Need GA's for Purdue! Cali Jeff  Purdue.' Will pay$$$ 4107 Kris  HELP! Kathleen 2567  
-top pay  X2174  Need 2 STANFORD GA's  
-1 0-4(1 hour schedules available -1/2 p1ice pizza  FOR RENT  NEED 2 TICKETS FOR STANFORD  I NEED PURDUE GA'SII BRIAN X1620  Please call Curtis-282·2197  NEED 1 or 2 PURDUE GA's Will pay top dollar.  
-EOE  GAME SO PARENTS  FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED!  Call Matt @ x3243  
call 271-1177  THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  CAN SEE FIRST NO FOOTBALL  Desparate Need 4 Purdue GA's  NEED: 4 NAVY  
NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED  GAME. CALL MARIANNE X3295  Call Collect After 5 P.M.  4STANFORD  Need 2 PU GAs Will trade 2 Navy  
Downl~own Book Wholesaler needs  BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  (219) 324-3241  CONTACT SEAN TRACY  GAs call x4289  
clerical &/or warehouse  NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  !HELP!  need 1 GA ticket to NAVY  222 GRACE  4-1861  
workers flexible schedule & wkend  OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­ game, for little brother. Cali Paul  DESPERATELY NEED 4 PURDUE  Help!  
work 232-8500 X22  773-2034  4-1008  AND 2 BYU GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$$  NO FAMILY REUNION needs  Need 6 BYU std. tix for brothers  
ask for Bryan ·[LC,sT & FOUND I  THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & BREAKFAST-Historic Home, quiet  I need MANY Stanford GAs I have $$ and/or stud tix to BYU, Navy and AF to trade! Amy x4838  call Brian @ x1739 NEED 3 STUDENT STANFORD TXTS-X2377.  Stanford TX. TOP DOLLAR. Call 517-332-4719. TO TRADE -8 (6 TOGETHER)  and friends from Arkansas who are desperate to experience life on the outside! I I Call Beth x4841  
setting, 4 guest rooms, shared  STANFORD FOR FSU. CHRIS OR  NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S.  
LOST: Set of keys on a blue NO 10  baths. 20 minutes to campus.  Need 1 Purdue ticket  HELP! I NEED TIX FOR STAN­ ED BULLEIT 800-786-8723.  CALL AARON  X3460.  
holder, with 10, driver's license, ATM  616-695-6321.  call Tom 289-3203  FORD. PLEASE CALL MIKE @  
card, and others. If found please  X1243  Will trade 4 BYU GA's for 4 Stanford  NAVY GA'S (2) for SALE I TRADE  
call 6:34-1532 or 634-1815  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY.  WANTED: 2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUD.  GA's. Call Scott (ND 91) @  Need 2 for any home game, and 7  
PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC  TIX FOR BYU. WILLING TO PAY  FOR SALE  (201 )402-9372  for Air Force.  Matt-x1790 or 3744  
[WANTED  EVENTS. 219-291-7153.  $$$PLEASE CALL MARY AT 273­2926.  4 Purdue GA's. Together on 15-yard line. Cali Bill at 291-6216.  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  NEED 2 BYU GA TIX & WILL PAY  
CALL SUZV AT 4072  BIG BUCKS SO CALL ME 1722  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR  I need BYU GA's and student  Need only ONE STANFORD ticket  
BREAK TRIPS! SELL 8 TRIPS &  RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS  TIXII!I  Please call Chris @  Will take anything---BIG MONEY!  I NEED PURDUE TIXI  ND Alum Needs 2 STANFORD GAs,  
GO FREE! BEST TRIPS & PRICES!  PROPERTIES. 272-6306  x4485.  Please call Diana x4939  SANDYx4638  BIG$$! Cali 217-337-6862  
BAHJIMAS, CANCUN, JAMAICA,  
PANAMA CITY! GREAT RESUME EXPERIENCE! 1-800-678-6386!  FOR SALE  I need purdue or stanford GAs. Will pay big $$$.  HELPIIII I NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR MY LITTLE  FOR SALE: 2 STD ticket booklets (or just individual games) and 2  Needed 2 GA for BYU 11111111 Call Ryan x3662.  
Call Megan 284-5050.  BROTHER FOR THE PURDUE  Married Student booklets (or just  
RESORT JOBS-Eam to $12/hr. +  RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR  GAME.  I WILL PAY A GOOD  games) No ID required. Call Sean  I need 2 ga's to Purdue and  
tips. Theme Parks, Hotels, Spas, &  FOR ONLY $79 FOR TWO SEMES­ Help! I need two GA's to BYUII  PRICE. CALL ANYTIME.  at634-1101  Stanford.  Mike 289-3203  
more. Tropical & Mountain destina­ TERS. FOR FREE DELIVERY  Call TARA at 273-388511  ERIN X4121  
tions worldwide. Call (206)632-0150  CALL:  Need GAs  WANTED:  2 GA's for 10/15 or  
ext. Fl55841  COLLEGIATE RENTALS,  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$  STANFORD! STANFORD!  Any Home Game  10/29. Call 287-3909  
272-5959.  I NEED 2 STANFORD TIX  Parents need a room? I have  4-3703  
WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST  Will Trade 4 Navy Tix or Pay Big  Marriott for Fri & Sat.  Concierge  Help, need 1 stanford stu. or GA  
GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY  486 DX IBM COMPATIBLE COM­ Bucks.  level-1st class. Jim 634-1745  Wanted 2 or 3 GA's together for  call Matt X4327  
SEEI(ING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO­ PUTER -1 YR NEW $1,200.00 OR  Please help me out-Pat x3515  BYU 10/15 or Air Force 11/19 Call  
MOTE SPRING BREAK TO  BEST OFFER CALL ERIC FOR  NEED 2 PURDUE GAs!  Lara 219/273-8961  Need 1 Purdue stu. tick. shannon  
JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS,  DETAILS 258-0536  Need'2 GA's for Purdue,  ND grad needs 2 GAs for fiancee's  291-6288  
FLOHIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE  Stanford, & Navy!  1st NO game. Jim 634-1745  I NEED STANFORD GA's  
TRAVEUCOMMISSIONSI SUN  Tired of walking? CLASSIC 1972  X1421  X4-2193  need 1 GA for BYU, AIR FORCE or  
SPUISH TOURS 1-800-426-7710.  NOVA, 4 Dr, 61K, Auto, PS, New  Will Trade 2 STAN for 2 FSU Cali  NAVY! call ann x4544  
Tires, Runs Greaatl Some rust,  Ticket Trad&-I have 2 Navy GA's to  Karen X4290  Desperately need 3 BYU GAs. Call  
Leam About the latest in computer  $1100, Leave message 299-1774.  trade for 2 Purdue GA's call x3001  Megan at 4072, call Suzy if you've  NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR STAN­ 
and presentation technology. Work  Mark  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  got Navy GA's.  FORD-& -1 STUDENT TICKET  
part time with us inviting business  BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS  HOME GAMES. 272-7233.  FOR BYU -CALL JENNIE 272­ 
custctmers to our open houses held  CALL COLIN AT 273-6205  I Need 4 Purdue Tix Together  Need Stnfrd stdnt or GA tixs, call  0108  
throughout Indiana.  Will Pay Big $$$1  Chris x1197  
Call :219-674-5973 8-5 M-F Ask for Drew or Tom  CONDO FOR SALE-Woodbridge­Minutes from NO-end unit on pond- Call Rosie Collect 313-668-9952.  LOOKING TO TRADE: 1 PURDUE GA  I need stud. tix for Purdue. Call Tom  PERSONAL  
18177F Stoneridge-2BR+Loft,  Need 2 Purdue GAs -call Rob @  FOR 1 STANFORD GA  at 271-1390 ASAP.  
BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR ONE­ Fireplace, Att Gar w/Opener­ 1304  CALLTJ  x1130  Seamaisin at The Midway Tavern,  
-·  HOUR AM EXERCISE CLASSES. PAID POSITION PLUS FREE  $58,000-Call232-5190.  $$$Help! I need 2 Navy GAs. Please  I need Purdue GA's. Call Eric at 232-8337  Mishawaka, Every Thursday  
EXEIRCISE MEMBERSHIP. CALL 277-()111 FOR MORE INFO.  TICKETS  r  call Lisa at 277-0740. Will pay top dollars.$$$  I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. AT 1645.  CALL PAT  Please!  I need 4 NAVY GAs and  We're Open Early, Late, & Weekendslll  
2 STANFORD GAs!  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
Wanled: Maya Angelou tickets. Will  Wanted: Maya Angelou tickets. Will  WANTED: 2-6 GA OR STUD. NAVY  HELPIII need 1STANFORD TICK­ Mary Beth x4220  LaFortune Student Center  
pay :~$. My mom and her friend are  pay $$. My mom and her friend are  TIX. CALL LISA 2364.  ET (preferably student) Please call  Phone 631-COPY  
coming in from out of town. Call Kira  coming in from out of town. Call Kira  Wendy at x2915  · Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call  
284-4308  284-4308  NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED  Sue at 277-8995  Stacie: Hope that you are having a  
Stanford STUDS  PURDUE TIX AVAILABLE.  WILL  'squishy' day. Dan  
***SPRING BREAK 95***  NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED  TRADE 2 PURDUE GAs FOR 2  Help! I need two Stanford GA's call  
America's #1 Spring Break  WANTED:  FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU  DON 272-5622  STANFORD GAs. 272-9248 AFTER  Jen at 273-0741  Wanted: Maya Angeiou tickets. Will  
Company! Cancun, Bahamas,  TICKETS. CALL  5.  pay $$. My mom and her friend are  
Daytona & Panamal110% Lowest  800-922-2327 JANET.  PURDUE PURDUE  I need 4 Navy GA's pleasellll  coming in from out of town.  Cali Kira  
Prien Guarantee! Organize 15  I NEED 2-4 PURDUE GA'S.  ***NEED 4 NAVY GAs *••  Mark x1640  284-4308  
friends and TRAVEL FREEl Eam  I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.  PLEASE CALL ME -PEOPLE  ***DAVID x3406  
highest commissions! (800)32­ 272-6551  COMING FROM CA TO SEE  ND Family Reunion  Bai-Pita: You better watch you're  
TRAVEL  GAMEl  HEATHER 4-2688  FLYING OUT FROM CALIFORNIA­ Need 4-6 STANFORD GA's  back! My cow's lost his MOO!  
DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA TICK­ Family has airfare, now we need  
HELP WANTED:  4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED. CALL  NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S $$$  ETS TO STANFORD GAMEl  ticketsll Call x3650  Todd- 
ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER ORGA­ X2875 (NICKY)  CALL X4570  (916)671-3299 KEVIN  Happy belated Birthday! !I We  want­ 
NIZER AND CARRIERS NEEDED  HEY! Do you have 2 stu. tix or GA's  ed  to help you celebrate but work  
FOFt NOTRE DAME AND ST.  I NEED YOUR TICKETS!  SELL Student Ticket PURDUE  for AIR FORCE??? PLEASE call  and parietals stopped us.  
MAHY'S. CONTACT CITY NEWS  WANTED 3 GA EITHER ND VS  SEARCHING FOR TICKETS  Call  Olga  634 -4575  Shan x44561  -Aims and Viv  
SEFIVICES,  STAN, BYU CALL COL 215-355­ FOR THE PURDUE AND STAN­ 
232-3205 OR 288-9361.  7131  FORD GAMES.  * Need 1 BYU GA  I NEED 2 BYU GA'S  
CALL MATTHEW  * Call Campbell at x1441  I HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S  Pierre is awesomelll  
SKI RESORT JOBS -Hiring for  CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE  277-3641  WILL TRADE OR BUY  
many positions for winter quarter.  DAME. I would if I had tickets to the  Need 4 Purdue Tix Std./GA  call chris x3913  Murphy- 
Over 15,000 openings! For more  Stanford game. Alum REALLY  Need 2 GA's for Purdue, 1 GA for  Andy 289-3736  
information call: (206)634-0469 ext.  wants to return to campus with fami­ Stanford. Call Sharon 273-8474.  Desperate for 3 Navy GA's,  Will you go steady with me?  
V55841  ly. Student tix ok. Price negotiable.  I Need 3-4 Purdue GA's  have 2 Stanford GA's to trade.  
Call collect after 6 pm  WANTED  Call Jon x1620  Please call X1418  Love,  
National Park Jobs -Over 25,000  (516) 499-5009.  GA's for Stanford game.  The Frog  
openings! (including hotel staff, tour  288-2589  FOR SALE****STUD BOOKLET  Need GAs for Purdue.  
guides, etc.) Benefits & bonuses!  HELP! I need 2 TIX to the Stanford  best offer above $125  Call Pat 4622.  To all men in 405 St. Ed's Hall:  
Apply now for best positions. Call: 1­ Gamel Call Patty at  Have 2 Navy! Will trade for Purdue  leave message with offer  
206-545-4804 ext. N55841  1-800-697-9141, leave message.  or Byul call #4087  634-4488  Need 2 STANFORD GAs for dad  Buck up young campers!  
and bro. TOP $$1 Anna x2286.  Just look at Rudy!  
Help Wanted Individual  NEEDED:  STUD TIX BOOK FOR SALE  2 married stud books or separate 4  Try being nice guys for once,  
students/organizations to promote  TICKETS FOR THE BC GAME.  CALL TOM@254-9068  sale. 2730673  Need 2 STANFORD GAs  And please lose that Attitoody!  
Spring Break Trips. Earn high dollar  CALL LIZ AT 284-5012.  Call Chris x3767  
commissions and free trips. Must be  Need 1 GA for Stanford -can pay  NEED 8 STANFORD TICKETS.  Attention! Attention! Attention!  
outtjoing and creative. Call  I NEED 2 G.A. TIX FOR PURDUE  $$1 Call Scott x3586  CALL GRANT 416-865-7741. ·  
Immediately 1-800-217-2021  CALL grace x4290  Need 4 GA Stanford tix. Will trade 2  It is now officially hunting season on  
DESPERATELY SEEKING 3  -1 have 1 AFOrce GA that I want to  GA Purdue tix plus cash. Cali Jim @  ali singing frogs, especially those  
STANFORD GA'S NEED 4.  NEED 2 STANFORD GAs WILL  Purdue TIX stud or GA -John  trade for a Purdue GA  312-281-5779.  whose names start with R and end  
MATT 257-Q564  PAY BIG$$$$ CALL PAT 273-9760  X3586  Cali Chris X4358  with -afeal! Happy Hunting!  


With 15,000 people in more than 100 o/f;ces in the United States, and through our global organiza­tion, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu International, we offer c/;ents worldwide an outstanding and diverse port­/olio of services. For you, this means unlimited opportunities to grow, professionally andpersonally. So why not join a f;rm that will exceed your expectations? 
Congratulations to the /oHowing graduates o/the Class o/ '94 who recently joined Deloitte & Touche: 
Andrea Alexander  Karen Grondin  Amy Miltko  Jon Ross  
Carlos Apacible  Masahiro Hirao  Brian Murray  Michael Rozembajgier  
Mark Bangasser  Ivan Hofman  Ed Neufer  Jennifer Schellenberger  
Kevin Carrigan  Nancy Johns  Dana O'Leary  Gina Smith  
Joseph Claussen  Brian Kelly  Jon Oleksyk  Eric Staub  
Nancy Davis  Ashley Kocevar  Maria Ortega  Timothy Walsh  
Jean Einloth  Angie Kolbas  Denise Paulin  
Mark Engel  Michelle Manning  Michael Preissler  
Thomas Fleming  James Martin  Janice Reis  

The above professionals are joining our offices in Atlanta, Chicago, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, Detroit, Houston, Indianapolis, New York, Orange County/Costa Mesa, Parsippany, Philadelphia, . Pittsburgh, San jose and Seattle. 
We will be on campus: 

Deloitte&
Sunday, October 9, 1994. Reception /or Interviewing Students The Monogram Room (JACC), 7.·00-9:00PM 

ToucheLLP 
Monday, October 10, 1994 and Tuesday, October 11, 1994 Campus Inter~iews /or /ull-time positions. Stop by Career and Placement Services /or sign-up in/ormation. Accounting, Tax, and Consulting Services 
We Listen. We Deliver Deloitte Touche T ohmatsu lntemational Deloitte & Touche is an equal opportunity finn. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote 
without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex, veteran status, or handicaps. 
Wednesday, September 21, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
• PnEDICTED fiNISH BLUEDMSION 
1. 
Pa.squerilla West 

2. 
Pasquerilla East 

3. 
w.vis 

4. 
Farley 

5. 
Off-Campus 

6. 
Siegfried 

7. 
Knott 


GOLDDMSION 
1. Badin 
2. Bn~en-Phillips 
3. 
W:ush 

4. 
Cavanaugh 

5. 
Pangborn 

6. 
Lyons 

7. 
Howard 


Five players to watch: 
1. 
M.iuy Kraft-Pangborn's junior quarterback could air it om in the gold division. 

2. 
Shelly Dillenburger­


unior linebacker could comt: up big for Badin this year. 
3. 
Marcie McNeill-Always dangerous QB could lead Slammers back to the Stadium where they were two years ago. 

4. 
K:ua Woitkowski-Under 


P.E.'s new defensive system, the jlllnior will lead the tough-nosed Pyros in the blue division. 
5. Erin Nicholas-After play­ing backup last year, the hard-throwing junior steps into the spotlight for Walsh .. 
SIEGFRIED 
Siegfried football doesn't boast of super players, only of a super team. 
Captain Marce McNeill commented on her players' even spread of good talent and strong sense of team unity. Citing the defensive and offensive lines and quick receivers as the posi­tions with the greatest depth, McNeill says she's "just waiting for the good players and good spirit to gel." 
While half of the team consists of freshmen, coaches Dave Bozanich and Chris Hammond will look to the seniors to help out the newer players. A few of this year's team members were part of the championship win­ning team of two years ago, and hope to play in the stadium one more time before they graduate. 
The Slammers hope the number of seniors and other returning players will help pull together with the many freshman to produce a nice mix of fresh blood and veteran experience. 
-K.C. GOYER 
PASQUERILLA EAST 
The P.E. Pyros are hoping to build on last season's success and make it to the final rounds of the playoffs this year. Team Captain Sue O'Kain said, "last year we made it to the playoffs, which was a big improvement because two years ago we didn't win a single game. This year we hope to go even farther." O'Kain is confident in her team, and she lists a strong defense and a good quarterback among the Pyros' assets. 
P.E. has several returning athletes, including Quarterback Kirsten Doty, Linebacker Kara Woitkowski, and Tight-end Marina Alkidas. 72 ener­getic Pyros signed up to play football this year, and though the numbers have dwindled somewhat, P.E. should be able to field a sizable team. 
Kara Woitkowski said the Pyros' defense should be stellar this season due to the addition of a new defensive 
BlUE DIVISION 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Siegfried's Marcie McNeill 
coach. "We're picking up where we left off last year," Woitkowski said. "We have quite a few returning play­ers, so we're not starting over." 
Last week the Pyros scrimmaged Badin, last season's runner-up, and lost 14-0. O'Kain said the main prob­lem was an inexperienced special teams crew. She said that the defense played a much better game than the score reflects. Next P.E. faced the defending champions P.W., and dueled them to a 6-6 tie. 
The Pyros agree that the coaching of Tim Shannon and his four assis­tants will be the key to a successful season. 
"We're very lucky to have five great coaches who are really nice guys!" said Marina Alkidas. 
P.E. will try to shore up their special teams before their first game, and as Woitkowski said, "This could be the best year ever for P.E. football." 
..JENNY SHANK 
KNOTT 
The Knott Angels football team is hoping to improve their record from last year and have fun while doing it. Last year the team finished a disap­pointing 0-6, but they remain enthusi­astic and optimistic about the coming season. Key returning players include Karen Wallace, who has been the quarterback for the past three years, and offensive lineman Tracey Banks. 
The Angels' biggest set-back is lack of athletes. Many players have to play both offense and defense. 
'We are hoping to improve the con­sistency of attendance at practice," said Tracey Banks. "Other teams have thirty or forty girls out, and we 
PASQUERILLA WEST 
The Purple Weasels of Pasquerilla West are trying to follow up last sea­son's championship effort with anoth­er successful year. P.W. lost only one game last year, which Team Captain Bridget Magenis described as a fluke. 
"The premier of Rudy was the night of the game that we lost, and so a lot of our good players were missing," said Magenis. 
The Weasels recovered from that loss, however, and brought the foot­ball championship home to Pasquerilla West. 
The Weasels are hoping to rebuild their team this year, because they lost many key seniors. 
Bridget Magenis said, "We lost a lot of core players, including ten to twelve seniors who covered every position." 
P.W. will have to fill the spot of quar­terback, safety, and running back, among others. 
Magenis said that this year's prospective quarterback, Kieu Vu, often only have twelve or thirteen at our practices." 
Captain Kelly Koski said that Knott's strengths include an experienced defensive line, and a strong coaching staff. Head Coach Chutch Albrighton, offensive coach Andy Delucka, and defensive coach Adam Kane have been getting the Angels ready to play. The players agree that their offense could use a little tuning up, however. 
Freshman running back and back­up quarterback Kristen Langer said the Angels are, "learning a lot and having fun while doing it." This en­thusiasm should drive the Knott Angels to a successful season. 
..JENNY SHANK 
was not allowed to play on the team because she lives off campus. "We have a lot of talented freshman out for the team this year," Magenis related. 
"Our goals for the season are to work on the cohesiveness of the team, to lay the groundwork for com­ing .seasons, and to have fun," she added. 
Sophomore Running Back Sarah Rapp said that the key to last year's championship season was, "A lot of senior leadership. We all worked very hard and wanted to win. This year we've lost a lot of players, so we're a young team, but we're enthusiastic and hard working." 
Head Coach John Gordon is work­ing hard to figure out where everyone should play, but the team is confident that they will be ready for their first game of the season. 
As Bridget Magenis said, "We have a time-honored football tradition here at P.W., and we're going to uphold that image while having a good time." 
..JENNY SHANK 




Procter & Gam e s 
Management Systems Division 
will be present at 
Industry Day, Thursday, Sept. 22 
Management Systems is the 
Computer and Information Systems 

branch of P&G 
We seek to hire: 
• 
Computer Science Majors 

• 
Computer Engineers 

• 
Electrical Engineers 



as full time Employees and Summer Interns 
Stop by our Industry Day display where our 
r·epresentatives will be happy to discuss the Company and 
career opportunities with you. 
Brin ur resume! 


page 13 
FARLEY 
Despite a 3-2 finish last year, the women of Farley Hall face the difficult task of rebuilding for the upcoming season. 
Losses to both graduation and off­campus decimated the team in the off-season. With only twelve upper­classmen left on the roster, the Farley freshmen will be called on to play a major role. 
"We're a young team," said senior Julie Ehrman. "We are looking for­ward to having a good season and making the playoffs, though." 
Two top players returning from last year's squad include junior corner­back Melissa Mapes and junior wide receiver Sheila Weigert. Along with Ehrman, both will show leadership this season. 
"We also hope to have a little fun this year," said Ehrman. 
Last year Farley ended the season on a rough note, losing to the top­seed, Badin, 26-8. However, promise was shown on Monday in a 20-play scrimmage with Howard. While no score was kept, Ehrman thought the scrimmage helped. 
"The scrimmage went well," said 
Ehrman. "Things seem to be coming 
together." 
-JOE VILLINSK/ 
LYONS 
Focused and spirited adequately 
describe this year's Lyons interhall foot­
ball team. Led by captain Julie Byrd, the 
team is looking forward to a competitive 
season. 
"Our goal is to get to the stadium," she 
said. "To do this, we need to keep our 
heads in the games and stay focused." 
After a loss to Lewis in the quarterfi­
nals last season, the team is expecting 
as much, if not more, success this year. 
Byrd hopes to attain this with a young, 
but strong team of about 30 girls. 
"We have a very solid defense and our 
offense is coming together," she said. 
"We have a few new players who are 
working well for us." 
The new players, who make up almost 
half of the team, had their chance to 
show off in a 0-0 scrimmage against 
Pangborn. One of Byrd's only criticisms 
about her team was their lack of scoring. 
However, she mentioned that practices 
The Observer • SPORTS 
OFF-CAMPUS 
As the women's interhall cam­paign begins this week, one team is actually coming off a perfect sea­son. 
Of course they didn't play at all last season. 
The 1994 women's off-campus team did not play last year when no team was formed. However, due to the hard work of captain Kelly Guerin and others, off-campus will return to compete in the blue divi­sion this season. 
"I didn't play last year," said Guerin. "I was determined to get a team together in my senior year." 
Guerin admitted that there were some split loyalties between play­Ing for dorms or off-campus. However, others were able to find an outlet to play on the off-campus squad. 
"Everyone was really excited about the start of the season," said Guerin. "We have a lot of talent and the turnout has been good." 
The team lost a tough scrim­mage to Breen-Phillips 7-6 last week, but more importantly, suf­fered injuries to some key players. 
the Observer/Kyle Kusek Farley's Molly Riestenberg -JOE VILLINSKI 
GOLD DIVISION 
Wednesday, September 21, 1994 


The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Farley's Melissa Mapes tries to find her flag. 

have been beneficial and hopefully--------------------------­
putting some points on the board will become easier. "Our expectations are to play the best " Byrd
We Can and go as far as We Can' said. "If we keep up our team spirit and play consistently in every game, we'll go far." 
Lyons challenges Breen Phillips Hall Thursday in their season opener at 9 p.m. 
-SHANNON 0' DONNELL 
CAVANAUGH 
Cavanaugh football this year will be unlike any other. Although the women of Cavanaugh don't have a previous team to build upon, they hope to capital­ize on their uniqueness. 
With veteran players from Walsh, Lewis, Lyons, and Badin, the team will have its own eclectic edge on the com­petition. In addition to fielding experi­enced players from many other dorms, the team has an inspiring number of freshmen and first year players. 
Captain Erin Williams hopes to chan­nel the newer women's spirit and enthu­siasm into an energetic team guided by the skills of returning players. 
This was evidenced in the team's first scrimmage against Walsh, as the offen­sive line offered excellent protection of their quarterback resulting in a strong passing game. After an encouraging preseason and impressive effort at prac­tice, Williams is confident that Cavanaugh has the potential to have a great first women's team. 
-K.C. GOYER 
Look for interhall men's coverage in Thursday's Observer. 

The Observer/Kyle Kuse Kristi Broderick of Howard rushes during a scrimmage. 

in key positions, they are confident HOWARD they can do as well this season as New coaches and a new attitude they did last. A possible indicator h was an informal scrimmage against 
will play a significant role in I e sue-F H
1 
cess of the Howard interhall football ar ey all. team this year. According to captain 
"I thought we played really well,"Lynn Quenan, the team has been Quenan said. "It showed us thepracticing for a week now and they areas we need to work on, but over­are going to be tough. 
all it was a good practice, a good"Our practices have been going challenge."
really well. We have new coaches, According to the captain, some of 
and we are all excited. It will be a those specific areas which need new experience for everyone," she improvement include their pass
said. 
defense and their offense overall. 
Approximately 40 students make However, with a group of about ten up the Howard team, many of which seniors to lead the team, Quenan is are upperclassmen. 
confident. 
"The core of our defense is mostly upperclassmen, and they are very "We have a lot of committed peo­good," Quenan said. "All of our run­ple who have played a lot. I think ning backs are seniors, and they are that is good for the underclassmen strong, too." 
to have them to look up to," she 
Last season, Howard advanced to said. 
the semi-finals where they lost to Badin Hall. Quenan said that 
·SHANNON 0' DONNELL 
although her team lost some players 
LEWIS 

The Chickens of Lewis Hall are optimistic about their team and its capabilities. Their biggest strength is their depth, after having an unusually large number of players try out and make the squad. The opposite side of that strength is that the majority of the numbers of players are young. 
The predominantly young team will be inexperienced, a weakness which might present problems as the regular 
WALSH 

Although the Walsh lnterhall football team is short on experience, they defi­nitely are not short on talent, at least, not according to team captain Kirsten Edmondson and the coaching staff. And after nearly three weeks of practic­ing, the Walsh squad should contend for the interhall title despite returning only .one senior and just six starters from last year's team. 
On the offensive side of the ball, Erin Nicholas steps into the starting quarter­back role after serving as backup for much of last season. Her performance will be a significant indicator of how the team fares this season. Edmundson believes the team will once again be solid at quarterback and announced before the season that Nicholas would serve as a second captain for the team. 
"She (Nicholas) has a great arm and is extremely tough," said Edmundson. "She will definitely be one of the strengths on this team." 
Newcomer Luz-Maria Rodriguez and tight end Kim Ryan will be the primary targets in the passing game. Ann Jackobice, a team leader and one of last year's stars, returns as first team running back. Nicholas and Jackobice will operate behind an offensive line 
BADIN 

There may be no other team in the interhall football league with as much ambition, spirit, dedication and determi­nation as Badin Hall, according to many returning players. A devastating 12-8 loss to Pasquerilla West in the stadium last season has given the Badin team reason for revenge. 
"We take a lot of pride that we are such a small dorm and we have such a great turnout for football and a lot of spirit," captain Jill Satanek said. "Obviously our goal this year is to get back to the stadium and win it all." 
Although Badin lost many crucial players this year, including most of their starting players in the backfield, 
Satanek said she is looking forward to
PANGBORN 
BREEN-PHILLIPS the 1 0 or 11 young players to gain 
more experience with each game. She
Each year, Notre Dame's foot­
Breen-Phillips has few upperclassmen 
attributes this possible achievement to
ball recruiting class ranks near the 
returning, but that might not matter. 
Badin's coaches, two of whom have led 
top. This year, Pangborn's interhall 
Senior captain Melissa McPike is "hoping 
the team the past three years. 
football team also figures to have a 
for the youth on the team to shine 
"Our practices have been great;
strong group of incoming freshmen. 
through." 
we've had a good turnout and a lot of
According to senior captain 
Freshman Diane Meyers will be start­
dedication. Much of this is because of
Trish Sorensen, the freshmen have 
ing at quarterback for the Blitz, taking 
our coaches. They are awesome," she
been "really good." They'll definite­
snaps from center McPike. It appears 
said.
ly play a big role for a squad which 
that this combination of youth and experi­
Satanek said .that in addition to their
has one senior, five juniors, and 
ence at key positions could be enough to 
coaching staff, their defense and speed 
one sophomore returning. 
help outshine last year's one-win. 
on offense are major strengths due to
Among the experienced players 
The Blitz already defeated Off 
many returning starters who have been
returning for Pangborn are junior 
Campus by a score of 7-6 in a scrim­
on the team tor three or tour years.
quarterback Mary Kraft and sopho­
mage Tuesday, scoring their only touch­
Among the key players, Satanek
more safety Bridget Noonan. 
down on a run by Wendy Mores. The 
named Shelly Dillenburger, third year
Noonan is part of what Sorensen 
win has the Breen-Phillips team gearing 
starting linebacker; Andrea Ricker,
calls a "strong defense." She 
up for their season with confidence. 
fourth year starting center; and Kim
added that the defense has looked 
The Blitz will have to rely on the 
Gold, a first year running back with
good in recent practices. 
strength of their defense to make it as far 
much potential. 
"We're really excited," com­
as the playoffs, but if the younger players 
Badin faced Pasquerilla East in a
mented Sorensen. "I'm warning all 
can pick up the slack, they might be able 
scrimmage last Wednesday and came
the other teams. Pangborn might 
to squeak in. 
up with a 14-0 win. 
have a few surprises this year." 
-JACK MACLEOD 
-JEFF COX 
season opens. The offense will be led 
by running back Amy Granada, and 
the defense, led by Stephanie Ready, 
won't be caught off guard. Last year 
Lewis lost in the playoffs, and despite 
having a young team, Senior defen­
sive back and captain Tracy Cote is 
anxious to make it back. 
"We've been practicing really hard 
and are all ready for the season to 
begin," said Cote. Their opener is this 
week against Siegfried. 
-JACK MACLEOD 
composed of Julie Accardi, Evelyn Ortix, and Sarah Johnson. Although they lack experience, Edmundson is confident that the offensive line will emerge as a strong point for the team. 
"It (offensive line) is not going to be a weakness," she said. "Once they gain experience, they will help us pull out some good wins:· 
There are fewer questions on the defensive side of the ball with four starters returning from last year's team. Defensive ends Becky Cartwell and Edmundson and tackles Mary wells and Geanne Geoffrey anchor a unit that is expected to pose nightmares for oppos­ing quarterbacks. Cornerbacks Diane Cook and Kelly Smith along with line­backer Kelly Hogarty and safety Laura Guiliani Julian fill out the remainder of the starting defense. 
Coaches Mike Stanley, Keith Twiggs, and Jim Argabright compose a strong coaching staff that plans to make use of the entire 32-player squad. They have assumed the responsibility of transform­ing the inexperienced group of girls into a well oiled football machine. Although their work is cut out for them, the future looks bright for the talented Walsh foot­ball team. 
·MICHAEL DAY 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

-
Howard's Sarah Norton 
"Our offense was not on the field much, so that is something we need to work on, but our defense looked 

-
good and our special teams were impressive," Satanek said. 
.SHANNON 0' DONNELL 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 21, 1994 
•1 SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mary's volleyball loses 2-0 

digs and fifteen assists. Starting setter Kelly Meyer had eight digs and only eleven assists. 
"We were not doing well as individual," said Schroeder­Biek. "Let alone as a team. " 
"We were not ready to play," said Prosser. "I think we will be more mentally prepared for this weekends game." 
The Belles faces their next challenge friday night at University of Dubeque. 
There must be some way to avoid doin_gthe samethingfor the next forty years. 
Life's been pretty good so far. You've  different areas?  sional Education in St. Charles,  
kept moving-taken all the right  Andersen Consulting offers you  Illinois, is just one measure ofour  
steps along the way (for the most  the opportunity to work on a variety  commitment. We train you for a  
part). And now you're ready for the  of projects-with clients in a wide  career-notjust a job.  
biggest step.  range ofindustries.  Does the idea of forty years of  
You'll be getting your degree from  We are the leader in helping  knowing exactly what you'll be doing  
a top school. You're about to find a  organizations apply information  each week scare you? Then don't  
great job.  technology to their business advan­ settle for that. Demand challenge  
The question is: which job? And  tage. Every hour ofevery business  and variety. Come talk to us. And  
will it have the potential to interest  day, we implement a solution to help  find out more about a career with  
you for a whole career?  one ofour more than 5,000 clients  Andersen Consulting.  
You've probably heard the story of  worldwide.  
the job applicant who said he was a  What makes that possible is the  
shoe salesman with fifteen years expe­rience. "No," corrected the recruiter  quality ofour people. And the quality ofour training. We're known for both.  ANDERSEN  
interviewing him, "you've had six months experience thirty times."  Because business and tech­nology are ever-changing, we see  CONSULTING  
Isn't there some way to keep  training as a continuing process. And  ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C.  
challenging yourself in new and  our $123-million Center for Profes­ 
© 1990 Andersen Consulting, AA & Co., S.C.  Andersen Consulting is an equal opportunity  Where we go from here'!"  
employer.  

By JENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's failed to defeat Concordia University yesterday evening dropping their record to 2-2. 
The Belles struggled with the fust two games losing 3-15 and 9-15. Saint Mary's lead in scor­ing in the third game only needing one point to win. They went through seven rotations wilthout scoring one point and Concordia eventually tied their score. 
There was a mix up in the rotation. Captain Sara Stronzcek called for a rotation check, but the referee was un­able to hear her. Another team­mate called for the same rota­tion check, however she did not have the authority to make the ca.ll. Therefore, captain Anne Lawerence had to serve the ball. Consequently she served an ace and the Belles would have won the third game. 
Lawerence could have tossed the ball and let it drop. Requiring the referee to signal a new serve. Allowing Stronzcek another chance to ask for a rotation check, in which Betsy Connolly could have served. 
"There was no focus out there," said coach Julie Stirred­Biek. "It was a frustrating game. It was no one's fault. We just showed signs of a young team last night." 
" We lost because of miss communication, not because of the absence of skills." 
Saint Mary's consists of nine freshman and three juniors. 
"Lawrence, really came through for us during the game," said Schroeder-Biek. "She had a steady game, keep­ing up the back row." 
Junior transfer student Kelley Prosser twisted her ankle dur­ing the game and did not return to play. As of last night Prosser was unable to walk on it. 
"Prosser has her head on straight." said Schroeder-Biek. " I can't say her injury was a major role in are lose but she adds a calming effect to the team." 
Freshman Meg Kelly lead the team with twelve kills, three blocks , and fourteen digs. Stronzcek had six kills, twelve 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 

ANGERS, FRANCE 
1995..96 Academic Year "Should I Stay .. or Should I Go?" With Professor Paul McDowell 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1994 6:30P.M. ROOM 115 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions All Are Welcome! 
University ofNotre Dame International Study Program in 

JERUSALEM 
Spring 1995 Information Meeting with On--Site Directors Father Dennis Madden and Jim Venza 
-
page 15

Wednesday, September 21, 1994 The Observer • TODAY 
GARY LARSON

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE 

29 Verdi's slave girl 48 1989 Nancy 55 Loses color
7 Exile site 
30 Landon's Reagan book 
56 Wield
8 Writer de 
running mate, 51 Comeback
Tocqueville 57 Ear spear 
1936 
52 Band leader 
9 Eastern lute 
31 Pointillist's 58 Albany-to-
Waring et al. 
10 Bushwhacker 
marks Buffalo route 
53 Gaping hole 
11 Where ends 32 Wheeling's river 
59 Tom of golf 
DILBERT 
1'0 STAY AND WORK SOME UNPAID OVEI\Tlf'\E. WITH YOU BUT I'l"\ TAKl.NG 
1"\BA CLA55E.S . 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 23 Check-cashing needs 
1 Luggage 24 Insubstantial 
5 Sneaking 25 Biblical initials suspicion 
26 Lend a hand 9 Waist material 27 Tour grp. 13 Broadway aunt 28 "Mighty-a Rose"
15 "The Old 31 Big salmon Curiosity Shop" order for aheroine security firm? 
16Words of 36 Unvarnished
enlightenment 
38 "Don't tell me!" 17 Everybody's 
39 Goes it alone opposite 
41 --European 18 Brickbat 42-the iceberg 19 Bear head, 44 Part of the cost 
once of floor covering?
20 Sgt. Friday's 
46-Canals
comment at the office 
47 Comic Philips equipment 49 High dudgeon store? 50"-tell" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1\-\t. PLI\\-18"':> CRJ>-'5\1, GR\I'W\NG 
'S\-\i~~Tit:R\~G Win\ f>..'N~IJL FORCE! 
PLI\NEI 5, 8£.\~G-SI-\P..U..ER I \'S CRUtK\.\~D I() OOS\! o\-IL'\ CO R't.MI\11-\') 
IF '(Qy TOOK ~f!>A CL/1.55E.5 '<OU'O UNDER­STAND THAT WORKING FOR FREE 15 A LOW NPV. 
) 
52 Clock part 54 Emulate 57 Musical 
instrument that throws Troy Aikman for a loss? 
60 "-never fly" 61 Nobel chemist 
Harold 62 Championship 63 Clock part 64 Clears (of) 65 Have the helm 66 Grand Ole­67 Crime battler of 
60's TV 68 Once, once 
DOWN 
1 Movie pooch 2 Not sotto voce 3 Shine 4 Wired 5 Actress Stevens 6 More than 
ennoble 


meet 33 Out of style12 That ship 
34 Bats 
14 Kind of price 35 Suffix with pay 21 Squirrels away 37 Lo-cal 22 Alphabet 40 Star in Virgo 
quartet 43 Misgiving 26 Peek ending 45 Pitches, in a 27 Wife, to Caesar way 
N'40 l..CX)K AT t"."a{T ORI'J£ A. COSTS 
~COME. ~00 lW.i O.R 
~t.li..St HtS coo.. SPaRiS ·~.000. 
'111\\l.. \bl~ CAR UK~ 
' 
~01#. ~'i ~r..i GU'{:> tx:e5S L\\(£. 1\V..I" 
\ 
SCOTT ADAMS 
IF 'YOU DON'T 1"'\IND 1 BEFORE BIG TESTS I'D LIKE TO RUB YOUR HEAD FOR LUC'I\ 
IT'LL COST YOU A NICKEL. 
\ 
54 Sunflower, in 
furniture 60 Words before a 
decoration kiss? 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
by Bill Watterson 
CHI" 

Fish rides 

DRINKING SELLS THE DREAM ••• 
YOU CAN NOT ALWAYS BELIEVE IN EVERYTHING YOU SEE ON TV 
Office of Alcohol and Drug Education LaFortune Student Center 631-7970 

1:;;:;; CALVIN AND HOBBES copynght 1992 Watter.s-o':'rz~·.Dis;;·;tn~b;u;te;d~b;~';U;n;ivers;;;a~lPress~;.;S~~~;ic;a;te~.;11.:;==========;:=;:::.1
Reprinted with permission. All rights reserved.• 
-
.. 
--
'cO, 

SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, September 21, 1994, 
• fOOTBALL 
Secondary may shift to youth 
Holtz looks to 
Covington and 
Rossum for depth 
By MIKE NORBUT Associate Sporn Editor 
Lou Holtz is implementing a youth movement. The Irish head football coach announced at his weekly press confer­
-ence yesterday that numerous fr-tlsh­men will probably see playing time in Saturday's game against Purdue. "We are going to work with two young corners, Ivory Covington and Allen Rossum," Holtz said. "Those are two freshmen we will play more. Corey Bermett will see a little bit more time at outside linebacker." Covington and Rossum will be work­ing their way in on the side of senior Shawn Wooden, while seniors Tracy 
Graham and LaRon Moore will also be seeing time at the safety positions. The possibility of youngsters in the game on Saturday excited the coach. 
"I think Ivory Covington and Allen Rossum at the corners are just good young athletes that have never been beaten so they are very, very confi­dent," Holtz said. "A young player knows no fear. That is the thing we like about Ivory Covington and Allen Rossum." 
Other personnel changes include junior Alton Maiden moving to nose tackle behind Oliver Gibson, and Emmett Mosley changing to tailback to support fellow sophomores Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer. 
Notre Dame may be without the ser­vices of two of their captains this week. 
While tailback Lee Becton will proba­bly miss four weeks due to a hip injury he obtained in last Saturday's Michigan State game, offensive guard Ryan Leahy is on a day-to-day basis after missing last week with a knee injury. 
"The situation is such that Lee Becton is still on crutches," Holtz said. "They tell me four weeks. I would be more optimistic, but then again, I am not the trainer. Ryan Leahy is a waiting-to­see-type situation. In the event he can't go, then of course we will go with Steve Misetic again." 
Misetic, a junior, performed well in his first start in an Irish uniform last week. 
Recruiting Coordinator Tony Yelovich has reportedly taken an administrative position in the Notre Dame athletic office, but details were not discussed. 
"This will probably happen very, very soon because the need is there and this is something that Tony wants to do," Holtz said. "He feels that it is in his best interest." 
Offensive coordinator Dave Roberts will be handling the recruiting duties this season. A permanent replacement has not yet been decided upon. 
• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 
B~elles soccer s~et to face 
.-Wheaton 
By JENNIFER LEWIS Sainr Mary's Sporrs Editor 
The 3-2 Saint Mary's Belles will face a most difficut chal­lenge this afternoon against Wheaton College, according to Shari Matelski. Wheaton's team is the strongest in the Crusaders history. 
lhe Belles have been work­ing mostly on their defense in practice. They have also been working on their passing skills. 
"There is a conflict between passing more and dribbling the ball more," said Tiffany Raczynski. "The coach definite­ly wants us to pass the ball more." 
The Belles are suffering from reoccuring injuries. 
"'At one point in the season I didn' think we would have enough players to play," said coach Larry Patterson. 
"Rita Juster plays the entire ga.me," said Matelski. "She will definitely be a key player in today's game." 
Saint Mary's starting line up consists of freshman Debi
--
Diemer, Lisa Nichols, Tina Brockman, Ann Kuehue, Maura Sullivan, Keary Sullivan, Tiffany Raczynski, Sandra Gass, Rita Juster, and Eileen. "I'm sure we will struggle early in the game," said Matelski. " We just need to hold them long enough that we can get it together and weaken their deffense them in order to have the clearence for attempt on goal." 
• MEN's SoccER 
Irish end two-game skid 
Adkisson scores twice as Irish topple Titans, 5-0 
ay THOMAS SCHLIDT worked a give and go with SportsWriter freshman forward Ryan
__:_____________ Turner. With the return pass 
from Turner, he dribbled to the end line and made a per­fect crossing pass. past the goalkeeper, to Oates, who drove it in for his second goal and a 2-0 lead. 
Adkisson later scored in the second half as he was asked to take a penalty kick for the team. 
"Kevin had a great game," coach Mike Berticelli said. "He is a motivated, driven senior. He is a role model to anyone playing soccer." 
With the scoring drive by Adkisson, the Irish settled into their game plan and started to completely domi­nate the Titans in every aspect of the game. 
Midfielders, senior Keith Carlson and sophomore Tony Capasso also added goals in the second half to seal up the victory. 
With the win the Irish even up their conference record at 1-1. Yet, more importantly the Irish looked prepared to enter a tough stretch of their schedule as they face No. 1 Indiana this Friday, and Wake Forest on national television next Wednesday. 



While talent and depth help a team win, experience can never be overlooked. Thanks to the intensity and desire of senior sweeper Kevin Adkisson, the Notre Dame men's soccer team defeated Detroit Mercy 5-0 last night. 
The first half of the game was relatively slow and slop­py for the Irish, as some pass­es were going errant and players were slow to get to the ball. 
The Irish got a break at 
27:23 as a long shot from the midfield took a high bounce and slipped through goal­keeper Ryan Lenarcic's hands. Senior Tim Oates slipped behind Lenarcic and pushed it in for a 1-0 lead. 
Except for having the lead, the Irish had done nothing to show any dominance until Adkisson stepped forward. 
He had been yelling encour­agement to the offense all game, and finally decided to take charge. 
At 42: 24 after stopping a two on one attack from the Titans in front of the Irish goal, Adkisson dribbled the ball past the midfield and 


of note... 
-WOMEN'S IH FOOTBALL Previews, rankings and predictions for the 
Check Thursday's Observer for 

women's interhall season.
-full preview of Men's IH Football. 
Pages 12-13 







