
~150 YEARS~ 
Friday, November 18, 1994•.Yol. XXVI No. 55 ~NOTRE DAME•IN ~ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
No 
Great Mystery 
It doesn't take Shel'lock Holmes to lind apopulal' detective stol'y Wl'itel' l'ight hel'e on campus 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Aulltant Nawl Editor 

T 
wo tickets to the Notre Dame-USC 
The theme of the diminishing write about what you know." football game are not something to kill 
The Mcinerny Files 
sanctity of marriage con­As a writer, Mcinerny says, for. Or are they? 
tributes to the plot of this mur­"You convey your understand­In his latest installment of The Father 
der mystery. ing of what life is all about." Dowling Mystery series, Professor Ralph •A Cardinal Offense is the 17th book in the 
This is not the first time Notre You give your perspective of Mcinerny sets a marital murder on the campus of 
!)arne has appeared in the human existence when you the University of Notre Dame, during a USC game 
Father Dowling series 
Mcinerny's work. In one other write, according to Mcinerny. weekend. And while a ticket-holder's envy may 
of his books, Mcinerny used ''I'm a Catholic. I'm a happy not compare to that of a jealous spouse, 
•Mcinerny has written four other series and over 
Notre Dame in the setting of his Catholic. This is the way I look Mcinerny'~ novel encompasses a number of philo­
story. Connolly's Life, pub­at life," he says. 
50 novels 
sophical and ethical questions. But that's 
lished in 1983, included scenes The Catholic aspect of his fic­because philosophy is Mcinerny's specialty. 
of Notre Dame, and one of the tion writing appeals to his non­As a professor of philosophy at Notre Dame for 
characters in the story met Catholic readers, who view his the past forty years, Mcinerny has found the time 
•He is a professor of Philosophy and Medieval with a fictional Father religious references as "exotic,"Studies and has been at Notre Dame for 40 yearsto incorporate philosophical themes into his fic­
Hesburgh. he says. tion and non-fiction writing, while, at the same 
Most of Mcinerny's books Mcinerny's writing appeals to time, he is a professor of medieval studies and 
have what he calls, "A Catholic a large number of people, and the Director of the Jacques Maritain Center of the 
•In addition to his teaching duties, Mcinerny is context" and, though most of this became apparent whenalso the Director of the Jacques Maritain CenterMedieval Institute. 
his fiction writing has been of Viacom, a television company, As the author of The Father Dowling Mysteries, 
for Medieval Studies 
mysteries, his stories include bought the right to use Mcinerny has written seventeen books in this 
"Church law on the margin." Mcinerny's characters in a se­series that spotlights the character Father Roger 
L_____________________J 
When asked if working in a ries which stemmed from the Dowling, a Chicago-based priest and sports fan. novel." While at Notre Dame, religious atmosphere, such as books. In the television series, Published last week, his latest book, A Cardinal Offense. is the Dowling is expected to partici­Notre Dame, and working in which lasted three years, actor first of the series to take place on Notre Dame campus. In this pate in a conference on association with priests has had Tom Bosley (Happy Days) book, Dowling is given tickets to attend a Notre Dame-USC foot­American annulment practices. any influence in his writing, ball game, which Mcinerny says is "functional to the climax of the Mcinerny responded, "You see MciNERNY/ page 10 

The Notre Dame 10 turns 25 
Forum remembers CIA recruitment protests 

Friday, November 18 
By JOHN CONNORTON

11:30 a.m. Mass The Basilica. 
News Writer 

11:30 a.m. Quarterback Club Luncheon JACC 3:00p.m. Walking Tour of NO Campus Main_ Gate . 3:00p.m. Football Weekend Social Gathering Morns .Inn Pat1o Notre Dame's past was revisited yesterday as 4:00p.m. Center for the Homeless Immersion Experience Ma!n C1r~l~ three members of the "Notre Dame Ten" returned 4:30p.m. Marching Band Rehearsal Mam Bmldmg 
to campus to mark the twenty-fifth anniversary of 
5:00p.m. Glee Club Open Rehearsal Crowley Hall 
their suspension from the University over their
6:45p.m. Band Steps off for Pep Rally Band Building 
protest of Dow Chemical and the CIA's on-campus 
7:00p.m. Pep Rally JACC 7:00p.m. Hockey: ND vs. Bowling Green JACC .. recruiting interviews. 
8:45 p.m. Concert: "Notre Dame Liturgical Choir Reunion" The Bas1hca Mark Mahoney, Dr. John Eckenrode, and Rev. Emmanuel Charles McCarthy, three of the ten,
Saturday, November 19 

held a forum last night at the Hesburgh Center for 8:30a.m. Marching Band Rehearsal Loftus Center International Studies to commemorate the protest 
9:30a.m. AA Meeting esc 
and to debate the idea of a Christian University. 
10:00 a.m. PomPon Squad/Cheerleader Performances Bookstore 
Mahoney, now a private criminal defense
12:00 p.m. Marching Band Concert Main Building 
Stadium lawyer operating out of Buffalo, New York, insist­
1:35 p.m. ND vs. Air Force 
4:45p.m. Candlelight Dinner Buffet Dining Halls ed the commemoration was not motivated by nos­talgia, but "about the kinds of personal questions Sunday, November 20 that hit us squarely in the face." 8, 10, & Mass The Basilica Mahoney hoped to raise awareness over the 
11:45 a.m. Notre Dame protest incident in order to deal with 
12:30 & lnterhall Football Championships: Stadium the problems of complicity that still exist today. 
2:00p.m. Women's Flag and Men's Tackle 
Specifically, Mahoney was referring to the
2:30 p.m. Play: 'The Bacchae· Washington Hall 
protest that occurred twenty-five years ago yes-
7:15p.m. Sunday Vespers The Basilica 
see CW page 4 



.-----------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------­
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



Saying hello 

isn't that hard 
We're all probably guilty of it. I like to call it "The Campus Hello." Some people are great at it. They'll walk through a crowd of people, with a smile, offering their polite hellos. But then there are the rest of us. We walk towards someone we know and we pass them, exchanging absolutely no greeting. Instantly, we resort to one of our "anti-approach tactics." 
They include: one, instantly dropping our 
heads as we walk, staring at the ground with 
some sort of erie fascination; two, pretending 
to be searching aimlessly for something in our 
backpacks; three, fixing a zipper on our coat 
that's not even broken, but all the while keep­
ing a look of great concentration on our face; 
and finally, coughing-an instantaneous 
cough attack always seems to do the trick. 
But why do we do it? Perhaps we know the person we're approaching, but his or her name escapes us. 
Or maybe this is the case: You know the person near you, but you're not sure if he or she remembers you. How many times do peo­ple have to meet at a party they can officially acknowledge each other? According to the experts, the answer varies. 
It's also possible that the person doesn't even remember meeting you at that party. In any case, we usually avoid these people, thinking, "Does he (or she) remember me or will he think I'm a complete weirdo if I say 'hi'?" If you keep running into the same per­son, you might as well introduce yourself. Otherwise, you might become bitter like I was last weekend. 
Last weekend, I met the same guy for the third time at a party. Each time, we were officially introduced. "It's nice to meet you," he said, for the third time. Then he said that I looked familiar to him. "Well, I shouldn't. I just got out of the federal witness protection program," I told him. 
Then there is that freak force of nature that attracts us to the one person on campus we desperately try to avoid for whatever reason. lie's that guy you see first at the football game where thousands of other people are present. You see him at the dining hall, the library, and in other random, unexpected places. And you better believe you'll see him when you're looking the most unfortunate you've ever looked. That's just the way it happens. 
It's also possible to stand six feet of some­one you know very well for two hours without exchanging a word. I've seen it happen. 
Some students, however, are risk takers. So they nod and say, "What's up?" Great, but never ask this to people with very mean looks on their faces. They might explain how they managed to fail their chemistry test and why they're doubting medical school. 
And to our extreme mortification, there will be those who ignore us when we say hello. Chances are they didn't hear us, they're chronically shy, or they have absolutely no desire to befriend us. This happens too. 
My point is it's better to acknowledge people in some form than to blow them otT entirely. And even if you don't know who the hell they are, take a risk and exchange a random greeting every once in a while. Don't become a member of the witness protection program. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 


•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Dave Tyler  Shelley Sullivan  
Kristi Kolski  Production  
Amy Schmidt  Belle Bautista  
Susan Marx  
Sports  
Tim Sherman  Accent  
George Dohrmann  Theresa Aleman  
Viewpoint  Graphics  
Suzy Fry  Robert Bowman  

The ObS<:rvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ~xccpr during exam and vacalion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Friday, November 18, 1994
The Observer • INSIDE 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Over the counter nicotine gum, patches may be approved 
The date: 1997. grams they already otTer The place: Any news­smokers work.
Sales of nicotine patches have shrunk rapidly since their Introduction in late
stand. But smoking cessation
1991, but drug companies are hoping
Customer: "Yeah, experts say the products
to revive the drug and its sister
gimme a Times, a TV aren't much good with­
product, nicotine gum, by eventually
Guide, and a pack of out the personal atten­
selling them without a prescription.
Marlb ... Wait, make it a tion a doctor can give.
*U.S. nicotine patch
pack of those nicotine Smokers must be taught,
retail sales: 
patches." for instance, that they
Millions of dollars
Clerk: "Gettin' off the don't need cigarettes to butts, eh? Good luck!" 
~--~~-------------
relieve stress, control Smokers hoping to 500 weight or make them kick the habit can't have feel more comfortable in 
400
that conversation, but social situations. some day it could 300 Even with a prescrip­become common. 200 tion, the success rate of 
100
Nicotine patches and the patches is only 20 gum, the only drugs percent. Smoking cessa­available to help people 0 tion specialists say that's
1992 1993 1994(est.) 1992 1993 1994(est.) 
quit smoking, are avail­pretty good, considering 
'Retail sales figures exclude mail order sales, approximately 3percent of total 

able with a prescription, 
prescriptions written. 

but drugmakers are hoping to gain approval from the Food and Drug Administration to sell them over the counter. 
The patch releases nicotine through the skin in smaller and smaller doses to wean smokers off cigarettes. Whether the FDA will agree to over-the-counter sales is in doubt. 
Doctors and Wall Street analysts say if such applications are to win approval, the companies must assure the FDA that large numbers of people won't overdose on the prod­uct if they use it without a doctor's supervision. 
Also, the companies must show that the support pro-
Kissinger, Koch form advisory team 
ALBANY, N.Y. 

Henry Kissinger and former New York City Mayor Edward Koch were among those named Thursday to one of Governor-elect George Pataki's transi­tion advisory teams. The 53-member group included many political allies of the former Republican state senator who defeated Gov. Mario Cuomo in an upset Nov. 8, and of his chief backer, 


Republican Sen. Alfonse D'Arnato. The Kissinger group also included a few Democrats, including Koch, who was mayor of New York City from 1978 to 1990, and former New York Gov. Hugh Carey. Kissinger was secretary of state under Presidents Nixon and Ford. Other transition groups were expected to be named soon, a Pataki spokeswoman said. 
Second wife dies in hot tub 'accident' 
PITTSBURGH 

A man moves to town, sets up a business, takes out an insurance policy on a cheerful, churchgoing wife and hits a rocky spot in his marriage. She ends up dead in a tub. The second time it happens, police suspect this is no mere coincidence. Timothy Boczkowski has been charged with homicide in the death of Maryann Boczkowski, and inves­tigators are looking anew at the death almost four years to the day earlier of his first wife, Mary Elaine. The 38­year-old denture maker remained in jail on $1 million bail Thursday, two days after he was arrested and 11 days after paramedics he called found the second Mrs. Boczkowski floating on her side in their patio hot tub in suburban Pittsburgh. Boczkowski said, "I hope they don't try to put this on me," according to Lt. John Brennan of the Allegheny County homicide squad. A lie detector test after Mrs. Boczkowki's death indicated Boczkowski gave deceptive answers. 
• NATIONAl. WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather"' forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 18. 
how hard it is to quit,
Source: IMS America Ltd. 
but well below many 

smoker expectations ­especially after they've paid $250 for a 10-week program. 
"Nicotine is one of the most potent pharmacological agents we have and obviously it's addictive," said Dr. Roger Bone, a lung specialist and president of the Medical College of Ohio in Toledo. "The issue is people will get a double hit of it if they continue smoking." 
"It's a big moral question of whether or not people should have access to it without the controls and guid­ance from a doctor," said Kenneth Nover with A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc., a St. Louis investment firm. 
Man charged in condom machine theft 
WATERFOHD, Mich. 

A man was charged with stealing a condom machine from the men's restroom at a bar. "All we can figure is, he was anticipating a big weekend," said Officer John Grimm, a police spokesman. Keith Bradford, 34, was arraigned on larceny charges Wednesday after allegedly dislodging the machine from a wall at the Irish Tavern. Bradford had three beers early Tuesday before heading into the bathroom, bartender Jodi Malone said. She told police she looked out a window a while later and saw Bradford walking down the street, carrying the machine. "There were dozens of witnesses. And he went straight home," Grimm said. "It didn't take our officers long to solve the great condom caper." Police recovered 48 con­doms and $31.75 in quarters at Bradford's home. The $279 machine was found behind the garage. He could get up to four years in prison and a $2,000 fine. 
WHO Issues Warning on TB spreading 
GENEVA 

Drug-resistant strains of tuberculosis are spreading rapidly because of improper use of existing drugs and the failure to develop new ones, the World Health Organization warned Thursday. Tuberculosis kills 3 mil­lion people annually, more than all other infectious dis­eases combined. New drug-resistant strains threaten to make it completely incurable and WHO expects the annu­al death toll to grow to 3.5 million within five years. said Arata Kochi, WHO program manager. Today there are six anti-TB drugs. The newest one was introduced in 1966, and there has been little effort to develop others. The drugs are inexpensive, but treatment can last eight months and require taking a dozen pills each day. Many people don't finish the treatment. TB was on the decline until 1985, when a worldwide resurgence began. The highly infectious lung disease is caused by airborne bac­teria and spread by coughing. 

q,~,~9.@~(f ~ £::1 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow ICB Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy VIa AssociattJd Press GraphicsN6t C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 


Friday, November 18, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page3 
Attridge joins Phi Beta Kappa Computers to assist in 
By KATE CRISHAM into the prestigious society. looking at is promise for real 
advanced mathematics
Associate News Editor Dean of the College of Arts scholastic achievement in the 
\

and Letters since 1991, liberal arts and sciences," he By MIKE DAY thing is illusion, and that God
Harold W. 
Attridge came to Notre Dame in said. "Our purpose is to honor News Writer teaches by illusion," said
Attridge, 1985 following eight years on and recognize those who pro­dean of the the faculty of Southern mote the liberal arts and sci­Banchoff. "England based ev­
University of Methodist University's Perkins ences." Computers will not take the erything on position of birth, Notre Dame's School of Theology. A "Professor Attridge is a great place of human understanding, and Abbott was able to humor­College of Massachusetts native, lie re­scholar and that's why he was 
but they can assist us with see­ously acknowledge this." ing higher level mathematics, Banchoff, who majored inArts and ceived his doctorate from asked to join," he said. 
according to Thomas Banchoff, English and Math at NotreLetters and Harvard in 1975. He also hold There are three classes of a professor at Brown Dame, combined the literature
professor of a bachelor's degree Boston Phi Beta Kappa members. 
theology, has Attridge College and bachelor's and Members in course, approxi­University. of Abbott with his own knowl­been initiated master's degrees from mately 99 percent of all mem­Banchoff appeared at edge of mathematics in his lat­into honorary membership of Cambridge University. bers selected each year, are 
DeBartolo Hall last night to est article on dimensional Phi Beta Kappa, the preemi­According to Provost elected from candidates for de­offer his analysis of Edwin math. Abbott Abbot's work (referred
nent honor society dedicated to Timothy O'Meara. Attridge was grees in liberal arts and sci­to as "A-Squared") and relate it The professor then used thescholarship and learning in the a "natural selection" for the so­ences-as a rule, from the up­liberal arts and sciences. ciety. per tenth of the graduating to his life long study of third computer to give the audience and fourth dimensional math. a better understanding of both
Attridge, a specialist in "Harry is a great scholar. a class. Alumni members are Hellenistic Judaism, second­wonderful teacher, and an in­elected from the alumni body of 
abstract math and the events of "Computers are changing the Abbott's life. He concluded hiscentury church history, and the teresting person," said the sheltering institution in New Testament, joins 65 other O'Meara. "He loves wisdom recognition of scholarly ac­way we are seeing dimensions, lecture by emphasizing the . " said Banchoff. computer's role in understand­faculty members comprising and you can tell that." complishment since graduation. 
"The aim is to solve the ing the dimensional analogy. 
the Notre Dame chapter of the ''I'm honored and not sur­Honorary members are elected mathematical challenges we "I cannot overemphasize the
honor society. prised by his induction," he from outside the student and Phi Beta Kappa, so-named said. "The whole society alumni bodies of the sheltering face by using the on-line net­importance of the computer in work." the understanding of third andfrom the initials of the Greek should be honored." institution on much the same Banchoff discussed the life of fourth dimensional mathemat­motto translated "Love of wis­According to William basis as alumni members. 
Abbott at the lecture and in­ics as well as other abstract
dom, the guide of life," was Shephard, professor of physics Sheltering institutions such founded in 1776. The and president of the Notre as Notre Dame are allowed to cluded a summary of his per­concepts," said Banchoff. organization currently has 242 Dame chapter of Phi Beta nominate no more than three sonal favorite of Abbott's 
books, Flatland. The book is a "But we must remember thatchapters and a living member­Kappa, a combination of factors candidates for alumni member­ship of more than 400,000. determine which individuals ship and two candidates for social satire on the structure of the computer is just a tool for Victorian England. assistance and not a substituteAttridge said that he was are inducted into the s9ciety. honorary membership per "He (Abbott) says that every-for learning." 
"very pleased" to be inducted "The primary thing we're three-year period. 


CCHR 
presents 

Gerard F. Powers, Foreign Policy Advisor 
U.S. Catholic Conference Washington, D.C. 

"NORTHERN IRELAND: SELF­DETERMINATION, SECTARIANISM AND THE NEW PROSPECTS FOR PEACE" 
Monday. November 21. 1994 Noon Courtroom Law School 

(Sponsored by the Centerfor Civil and Human Rights) 




Sony Pictures losing money 
Associated Press "It's basically saying that "Threesome" were all 
(Sony president Norio) Ohga washouts. 
TOKYO wasted $2.7 billion of the Last month, the chairman of 
Sony Corp. said Thursday it shareholders' money." said Sony Pictures Entertainment, was taking a huge write-off on Makio Inui, an analyst in Tokyo Peter Guber, resigned. Sony is its movie-making subsidiary. for Kleinwort Benson expected to have to inject mil­Analysts called the move a con­Securities. lions of dollars more to get the cession by Sony that it paid too Sony made the disclosure in subsidiary back on its feet. much in buying Columbia announcing that it lost $3.16 The write-off involved the so­Pictures and TriStar Pictures billion in the six months that called goodwill value of the five years ago. ended Sept. 30 in contrast to a movie subsidiary. Goodwill rep­
Sony said it was reducing the profit of $95 million a year ear­resents the premium paid for a book value of its movie-making lier. company above the total value subsidiary, now known as Sony It also said it expects to post a of its assets. Buyers pay the Pictures Entertainment, by $2.7 loss for the year rather than a premium expecting the differ­
billion. 



The Morris Inn 
welcomes you 
Every Football Saturday 
Pre/Postgame gathering on campus All activities start at 9 a.m. and continue throughout the day 
Brats • Burgers • Hot Dogs Beverages • Hot Roasted Almonds Gift Shop • Big Screen TVs 

Tents for Inclement Weather 
THE f10RRIS INN 

NO PARKING AVAILABLE 
Of NOTRE D411E 


profit. 
Sony Corp. ADRs lost $3.25 to close at $55.25 Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Sony paid $3.4 billion in 1989 for Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc.. which owned both Columbia Pictures and TriStar Pictures. Since then it has poured billions of dollars more into the studios, which have been plagued by leader­ship turmoil and a series of high-budget flops. 
Recent releases such as "City Slickers 2," "North," "Guarding Tess," and ence will be made up in future profits. 
Many analysts have said Sony paid far too much for the stu­dios, but the consumer elec­tronics maker maintained that "synergy" between electronics and software, such as movies and music, would create new sales opportunities. 
Sony said in a statement that the write-off was needed "in consideration of anticipated additional investment to attain acceptable performance" by the subsidiary. 



Ct-IOPSTJCKS 
CHINESE FAST FOOD We Deliver to your dorm! Mon-Thurs lla.m. -9p.m. Fri. & Sat. lla.m.-lOp.m. 
East Location: $6 minimum 525 N. Eddy St. 
$1 service charge for South Bend, IN orders under $15 232-1177 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

---------------------~---------------------­
page 4 
CIA 
continued from page 4 
terday in 1969, when a gather­ing of students blocked repre­sentatives of the Dow Chemical Corporation and the CIA from entering to the University's placement office. 
The protests centered around Dow's contributions to the mili­tary industrial complex that supplied the VietNam War and the widespread belief that the CIA had been involved in efforts to overthrow Salvador Allende, the democratically elected President of Chile. 

Among Dow's most notorious contributions was the manufac­turing of napalm, the highly destructive incendiary bomb whose brutal effectiveness led many to describe Viet Nam as "the land of the burning chil­dren." 
"We were very concerned in investigating the responsibility a Christian university has in the particular use of its non-aca­demic facilities. Did Dow-CIA on-campus recruitment fit in with normal Christian moral­ity? We felt it didn't," said Ma­honey. 
Ten Notre Dame students, Mahoney and Eckenrode among them, were suspended by the Dean of Students, Father James Hiehle, for violating then President Father Theodore Hesburgh's "15-minute rule." The 15-minute rule had been announced earlier in the year as means to deal with campus protests. Disruptive students would be given 15 minutes to disperse, and then suspended. 
After a series of tribunals, and despite personal appeals to llesburgh, the students were suspended from the University with the knowledge that they were allowed to reapply the fol­lowing semester. 
Mahoney noted a particular vindictiveness on the part of the University, when, during the student's suspensions, the school notified the respective draft boards of the students' new eligibility. 
McCarthy, then a faculty member in the Program for the Study of Nonviolence and advi­sor to the "Ten," voluntarily left the University, saying yesterday that he "preferred to be among the excommunicated than the excommunicators, for the excommunicated had spoken the truth." 
Although the events being discussed occurred twenty-live years ago, the three speakers made very explicit attempts to relate past to present. Mc­Carthy stressed the Pope's call last week for Catholics to re-ex­amine their conscience in the face of Catholic actions during 
5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
2n-7946 

HOURS 8 S<lt. 9 to 6 Sun. 1-5 

The Observer • NEWS Friday, November 18, 1994 

Prime Minister of Ireland resigns in priest scandal 
the Inquisition and the Holo­caust. 
"This examination is neces­sary for Notre Dame. Notre Dame should lead the way in this re-examination, not fol­low," said McCarthy. 
Mahoney was very critical of what he saw as the institutionalization of Christian impulses. He pointed to the Center for Social Concerns as "something almost insidious." 
Mahoney argued that the CSC makes the student body less likely to question the overall mission of the University, be­cause its presence allows to point to its existence as evi­dence that good is being done on campus. Mahoney said he believed that "doing good" should be an everyday aspect of life, not just relegated to build­ing on campus. 
McCarthy echoed Mahoney skepticism toward institutional­ization, but was quick to add he would like to see the CSC's ex­pansion. "I believe in the CSC's mission. I just don't like the compartmentalization aspect. Notre Dame should be a uni­versity of social concerns." 
Both McCarthy and Mahoney were openly critical of the Uni­versity's treatment of the Viet Nam War. Mahoney pointed Stonehenge, a testimonial to the lives lost in the war, and said a monument should be erected in honor of those con­scientious objectors who protested the war. 
McCarthy concurred, saying, "the objectors paid a price for following the Biblical Jesus, in-eluding humiliation, imprison­ment and fines. Yet Vatican II and the American Catholic Bishop's Documents both de­clare conscientious objection an honorable position. Where is their monument?" 
However, despite the con­frontational aspect of the protest twenty-five years ago, the three stressed that in no way should there statements be seen "as attempts here to nega­tize or personalize these issues." 
Said McCarthy, "What we are here for is remembrance and re-examination." 
• SECURITY BEAT 
MON. 
9:55 a.m.-Security responded to a two car accident in the C-1 parking lot. No injuries were reported. 
12:37 p.m.-A Zahm Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from The Zahm bike rack. 
6:03 p.m.-Security apprehended three juveniles who were attempting to steal bikes from the Zahm Hall bike rack. 
6:16 p.m. -Security apprehended two juveniles by the Alumni Hall bike rack who were acting suspicious. 
TUES. 
4:45 p.m.-Security responded to a hit and run accident in the JACC parking lot near gate #6. 
WED. 
9 a.m.-A University employee reported the theft of a license plate from a univer­sity owned vehicle. 
5:37 p.m.-A Cavanaugh Hall resident reported receiving a harassing phone call. 
9:21 p.m.-A Breen-Phillips Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an illness. 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 
DUBLIN 
Weeks after being hailed as a hero for helping bring about an IRA cease-fire, P r i m e Minister Albert Heynolds resigned Thursday in a scandal over a priest accused of child molestation. 
His departure left lawmakers stunned, the government facing a potentially tortuous road to repair, and prospects for the Northern Ireland peace process uncertain. 
"In life ... you can't win them all," a grim-looking Reynolds told a hushed parliament as lawmakers were about to take a no-confidence vote on his coalition government. 
A judge whose appointment precipitated the crisis resigned several hours later. A few days ago his resignation might have saved the government, but by Thursday the damage was be­yond repair and all parties agreed Reynolds was right to step down. 

His voice breaking and close to tears, Heynolds told parlia­ment the main achievement of his 22-month government was "the breakthrough to peace in Northern Ireland," and he was stepping down to keep negotia­tions from being derailed. 
"A terrible cycle of death has been brought to an end," he said. The IRA began a cease­lire on Sept. 1 and pro-British Protestant gunmen announced their own truce Oct. 13. 
Heynolds' departure paves the way for his Fianna Fail party, which has been a major player in the peace process, to elect a new leader and perhaps return to power in a new coali­tion. 
Reynolds and his ministers submitted their resignations to President Mary Hobinson Thursday afternoon. Heynolds said he was not asking for a general election. 

"RAVISHING. EXQUISITE. EVOCATIVE. ACOMPLETE AESTHETIC EXPERIENCE." 
tiENNrnf n'RAN, L4 TIMES 

"A LUXURIANf, BEAUTIFUL FllM ABOUf ALOSf VIE'INAM" 
JANET M\SUN, NY TllfES 

DEFIANTLY RAPTUROUS ... 

"**** 
BURNS WITH FIERCE NOSTALGIA" 
BOB CAMPBEll, NEWJ/Ol!Sli NEW'5PAP£RS 
"GORGEOUS. IT'S AMAZING." 
El.IZ.\BETII PWJS, L4 lf1!EIJ.l" 

AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 and 9:45 
Some employers promise you the world. We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possihility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
Notre Dame Communication and 11zeatre presents the Greek tragedy 
At Washington Hall Wednesday, 
November 16  8 p.m.  
Thursday,  
November 17  8 p.m.  
Friday,  
November 18  8 p.m.  
Saturday,  
November 19  8 p.m.  
Sunday,  
November 20  2:30p.m.  

Reserved Seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday. 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
BACCHAE 
MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
BY EURIPIDES 
Directed by Gr1est Director B01mie Mo11te 

FAMOUS 
Since 1977 

15 Years of Service Award 
DINE IN, CARRY OUT, OR DELIVERY 
SZE-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AMERICAN DISHES , 
"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
•Private 
Dining Booths 

•Fresh 
Ingredients 

•No 
Mass Production 

•Healthy 
Family Style Dining 

•Vegetarian 
Menu 


For Reservations &Carry Out Call: 


272-6702 
For Delivery Call 272-2-EAT 6329 University Commons 

M<JI.Thus 11 AM-9 PM

~'i'-MM"I';;;;"-" 
Fnday 11 AM·10 PM Sallllday 4PM.f0 PM 

Friday, November 18, 1994 
Compromise sought on prayer 
By MICHAEL]. SNIFFEN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Clinton administration is leaning toward legislation allowing a moment of silence in schools, rather than a constitu­tional amendment authorizing organized prayer. a top White House lawyer said Thursday. 
"The president has long sup­ported this moment of silence, and I think it's something he will look at seriously," Joel Klein, deputy White House counsel, said in an interview. "But we think we can get it done legislatively without going down the constitutional path." 
Klein sounded a cautious note in addressing Republican plans to bring a constitutional amendment on organized school prayer to a vote in the House this year. Attorney General Janet Reno and even the House Republican who would chair school prayer hearings also spoke cautiously on the topic Thursday. 
On Tuesday, President Clinton had expressed some concerns about a school prayer amendment but offered to dis­cuss it with Republicans. He drew instant criticism from lib­eral groups. 
On Thursday, Reno told her weekly news conference that any effort to return organized prayer to public schools "must protect the religious freedom of the many different faiths in this country." 
And the Republican slated to head the House Education and Labor Committee, Rep. Bill Goodling of Pennsylvania, said he would hold hearings on school prayer if the House GOP leadership chooses to offer leg­islation rather than an amend­ment. 
"I would oppose, personally, a one-size-fits-all, mandated Christian prayer that everyone would recite aloud," Goodling told a news conference. 
Klein said the administration would prefer to avoid amend­ing the Constitution if possible. 
The White House counsel's staff has been researching legal precedents and Clinton's record on school prayer for the last couple of months, because the topic was becoming an issue. Klein said Clinton did not request the review. 
A moment of silence can be 
allowed in schools without co­
ercing students to pray, Klein 








enne 
u n v 

said. "It's a chance for different 
people to do what they want to 
do -what they think is appro­
priate-with the time." 
"It's a chance to reflect on 
the day -if you're so inclined. 
It's a chance to silently ... pray. 
It can be a kind of taking-stock 
moment," he added. "It allows 
a moment of quiet reflection 
without coercion. A 12th-grade 
atheist would take a moment 
for his or her thoughts." 
Klein said no legislation has 
been drafted and it is not clear 
whether the White House 
would propose a bill. The 
administration has not com­
pletely ruled out supporting a 
constitutional amendment, 
Klein said, "but I really don't 
think he (Clinton) is inclined to 
go that way." 
Rep. Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., 
likely to become House speak­
er, has called for hearings and 
a House vote by July 4 on a 
constitutional amendment to 
permit organized school 
prayer. 

The Supreme Court ruled in 
1962 that a New York school 
prayer violated the 
Constitution's prohibition 
against state establishment of . religion. 
e r s t y P a r k M a 
The Observer/Tara Mooney 

A not-so-comfy couch 
Saint Mary's junior Amy Hiniker works on a project for her Ceramics I class in the Moreau Center for the Arts . 
Notre Dame Merchandise Home 
Football 

Weekends 




the Grinder the Californian RJ's Club 

282-2522 
Closed Sunday 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,CKXJ Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: 


$200 
• Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 

vs. NOTRE DAME 
FIGHTING 
IRISH 
Saturday, December 10 2:00p.m. 
See Chicago's new UNITED 
CENTER 
Tickets $30•$25•$20 $15•$12 
For Tickets Call TICKETMASTER 312-599-1212 
Take a Break from Exams! 
DEPAUL UNIVERSITY 


-----~-----~-~~-----~ ­
. 

page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 18, 1994 

ar our 

I 
wee en o rt 

I 


NOTRE DAME HOCKEY 
----vs.--­
BOWLING GREEN 
7 p.m. • Friday, November 18 Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
~---·~--­

------~~­
Friday, November 18, 1994 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page? 
Boycotts threatened over 187 
By AMANDA COYARRUBIAS 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 

From boxers to businessmen, foreign and U.S. groups are threatening to boycott California over its anti-immi­grant Proposition 187. 
The Republicans, on the other hand, have put San Diego at the top of their list as a possible site for their 1996 national convention. 
And some state officials are predicting the threats may never result in full-scale boy­cotts. 
"The argument we make to Latino groups is that it harms the Latinos they profess to want to help. Boycotts don't help anyone. They end up hurting people," said Sean Walsh, a spokesman for Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican and strong supporter of the new 
Upper Level-Old Brewery 100 Center, Mishawaka 255-1526 
immigration law. 
So far, activists in Texas, Arizona and Colorado have called for boycotts of California businesses. And the World Boxing Council, based in Mexico City, is refusing to par­ticipate in any world title fights in California for four months to protest the measure. 
Proposition 187, approved by the voters last week, would deny schooling, welfare and non-emergency health care to illegal immigrants. It has been blocked by legal challenges. 
Despite the state's assur­ances, some California business people are jittery because of the boycott threats. 
"If it becomes fashionable, which apparently it is, it could have a tremendous conse­quence," said Ernesto Grijalva, a trade relations expert for the Greater San Diego Chamber of Commerce. 
Tues-Thurs 5-9 p.m. Fri-Sat 5-10 p.m. Reservations Suggested 

Part of his concern is for the grocery, clothing and electron­ics stores along San Diego's southern edge and in its malls downtown, all heavily depen­dent on middle-class shoppers who cross each day from Tijuana, Mexico. 
"We understand there's an emotional reaction to Proposition 187, but two wrongs don't make a right and that's what's happening right now," Grijalva said. 
The National Association of Hispanic Journalists has dropped California from con­sideration as host for its 1998 convention, the first national organization to take such ac­tion. The convention would have brought about $1 million to the San Diego region's econ­omy. 
The retaliation recalls a boy­cott of the Colorado tourism in­dustry in 1992 after voters there approved an amendment against gay rights. The amend­ment was later ruled un­constitutional -after Colorado reported losing $39 million in tourism revenue. 
SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! 
Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book NotTe Dame Football Today, reg. $49.,, now just $3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­
table book ever produced on NO football." A must for every student and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 
(219)634,1740 

Teen beaten to death over rape that wasn't 
By WAYNE WOOLLEY 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

They chased Eddie Polec until he fell on the steps of the church where he was once an altar boy. Then, a police source says, the gang of teen-agers hoisted him to his feet for a clear shot at his head with a baseball bat. 
The 16-year-old died of a fractured skull in what police said was retaliation for a rape that never occurred. 
The violence, police said, was the product of a long-running feud between teen-agers in the city's Fox Chase neighborhood and in suburban Abington ­both mostly white, middle-class communities. The rivals regu­larly trade insults, and often fight. 
"This sounds almost like a case of vigilantism ... like a Western. They went in like John Wayne with guns blaz­ing," said John Sabini, a University of psychologist who studies mob behavior. 
More than two weeks ago, a girl from Abington got into a scuffie with teens she believed to be from Fox Chase, where Polec lived, homicide Capt. John Apeldorn said. rumors that she had been raped circu­lated quickly around her school, Abington High. 
Teens from Abington planned revenge for days, said several other Abington young people. On Nov. 11, about 20 youths piled into three cars at a mall, armed themselves with base­ball bats and drove into Fox Chase. 
"Some kids were joking about renting a U-Haul to go down there," said Billy Baldwin, 17, an Abington High student. Still, he said, "nobody in their right mind was plan­ning on going down there to kill anybody." 
The Abington group found Polec with friends near St. Cecilia's Roman Catholic Church and began chasing them, Apeldorn said. Polec tripped and fell on the steps, he said. 
The police source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Polec was clubbed in the head repeatedly and his skull was crushed by one or two bat­wielding teens. 
"It was like 'West Side Story,"' said Dene Harris, a ju­venile probation officer as­signed to Abington High. "It was almost like a community murder, so many people were involved." 
Hundreds of mourners at­tended Polec's funeral Wednesday at St. Cecilia's. Bruises were visible on the faces of some of his friends, who said they were too upset to talk. 
Acting on anonymous tips, police arrested Thomas Crook, 18, Bou Khathavong, 17.-and Nicholas Pinero, 16. They were held without bail and will prob­ably be tried as adults on mur­der and other charges, Apeldorn said. 


I•A16 C.Qr-& ~~Qi r 

OBSERVE THE
271-7674 
WARNING SIGNS. 

1811 South Bend Ave. 
simplY,
··the vest. 
Voted #1 in Michiana 20 TANS ALMOST FREE 
WITH THIS ADI FOR A VERY LIMITED TIMEI 


" ~ have cOOst pai1lasti:YJ l'M> rm.rtes or more, see adoctor.
expries Oct. 7. 1994 
CALL TODAY 272-7653 
ftAmerican Heart
FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD. 23 
V Association
UNMRSITY COMMONS. SOUTH BEND, IN 
c 1992. American Heart A$socialt0n

Professional Hair Care Services 
~Country !J{arvester Presents IRISH~VILLAGE 
Authentic wood replicas of Notre Dame Buildings 
The Village is Growing!
Christmas is corning and we have a great · d ft d d •Walsh
selection of han era e ornaments an We are Pleased to Announce • Dillon 
f.JHilC/IIl.LYU(FH.IFJJ

other wonderful gift giving ideas! Additions to our Collection of •Howard Hall 
P!lffll/Cl'[(?

Visit us in the lower level of LaFortune Notre Dame Buildings •Morrissey Manor 
1111? 1/Nflii?RSITY{Jf?

•Law School 
/V{J[f//? IJMfl?

Student center! 631-6714 •School of Architecture 


page 8 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 18, 1994 
The Hatnflles NOTRE DAME BOOKSIDRE 
''on the campus" 
Open Monday-Saturday 9am-5pm Special Hours Football Weekends! • Friday 9am-7pm • Saturday 8am-7pm 

Friday, November 18, 1994 

The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS page 9 
Victorious GOP wants to cut income tax 
Losers don't leave empty handed 
By JOHN SOLOMON Take for instance Thomas advocates lower government Associated Press Foley, the first House speaker spending and taxes. to lose re-election in a century. Qualifying for pensions of WASHINGTON With 32 years of government $96,462 a year, according to 
Spurned service, he's eligible to begin the group, are: by voters, collecting a $123,804-a-year -Former House Ways and most ousted pension starting in January. Means Chairman Dan 
congressmen Foley tops the list of more Rostenkowski, D-Ill., who is won't be than three dozen lawmakers facing mounting legal bills as leaving rejected on Election Day. Most he awaits trial on public cor­Washington are immediately entitled to ruption charges. empty-hand­pensions ranging from about -Rep. Jack Brooks, the ed thanks to $35,000 to more than prominent Texan who was up­a pension $100,000, according to figures set in his re-election bid after system that calculated by the National 46 years of government service. far exceeds Taxpayers Union, a -Rep. Neal Smith, an Iowa Americans. Washington-based group that Democrat with 39 years of ser­
vice. 

If Foley, Rostenkowski, Smith and Brooks reach their respec­tive ages of life expectancy ­between 80 and 85 -their four pensions alone will have cost taxpayers nearly $9 mil­lion, according to the NTU. 
The various congressional plans also have other benefits not available to many Americans. 
Those include early retire­ment ages (as early as age 50 in both the Senate and House), fewer years of service to be vested (five years in most cases) and a mandatory adjustment for inflation. Most private pen­sion plans don't adjust for infla­tion. 
Perhaps the biggest losers in the 1994 election are the hand­ful of House freshmen, such as Virginia's Leslie Byrne and Ohio's Eric Fingerhut. They didn't serve long enough to qualify for the congressional pension system. 
Other ousted lawmakers who served several terms -but not the lengths of Foley or Brooks -qualify for more modest pen­sions. 



ByALANFRAM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Republicans preparing to take the reins of Congress have a strate­gy for paying for some of their promis­es -using 


calculations Newt Gingrich that conclude that some tax cuts would actually earn money for the government. 
The method, discounted as inaccurate by many main­stream economists, is derided by Democrats as wishful think­ing that will make federal deficits swell again. 
"Smoke and mirrors," White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta called it Wednesday. 
But the cadre of conserva­tives who support the idea say that some tax reductions ­especially those for business investments -would stimulate economic activity, which in turn would bring in extra rev­enues to the government. The current method for calculating the effects of tax changes, used for decades with mostly bipar­tisan support, does not allow for that. 
"The current system is bro­ken," said Rep. John Kasich, R­Ohio, who probably will become House Budget Committee chairman in January. "It needs to be fixed." 
In addition to Kasich, the new system is supported by Rep. Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the likely next House speaker, and Rep. Richard Armey of 
Texas, who probably will be 
House majority leader. 
The system, called "dynamic 
scoring," would make it much 
easier for Republicans to pay 
for the long, expensive list of 
campaign promises in their 
"Contract With America." 
Overall, it could make the task 
tens of billions of dollars small­
er. 
Included among the promises is a constitutional amendment calling for a balanced federal budget by 2002, which would require anywhere from $500 billion to $700 billion worth of spending cuts. 
Their proposed tax cuts in­clude a tax credit of $500 per child, a reduction in the capital gains tax rate, and tax savings for many businesses, better-off Social Security recipients, mar­ried couples and others -at a five-year cost of nearly $200 billion. They also pledged to halt recent reductions in Pentagon spending. 
The overall price tag for the Republican contract could ap­proach $1 trillion over five years. 
The dynamic scoring method would most dramatically affect two items. One is the reduction in the capital gains tax rate, which is paid on sales of prop­erty. The other would increase investment costs that busi­nesseS' could write off. Both, Republicans argue, would be­come big money-earners for the government. 
The dispute over calculating tax bills echoes fights that oc­curred when President Reagan came to Washington in 1981 with an entourage of supply­side economists. 

What has Tim O'Neill been doing 
(The "Piano Man") 
since graduating from ND this May? 

page 10 The Observer • NEWS Friday, November 18, 1994 
Mcinerny 
continued from page 1 
played Dowling. 
Mcinerny feels that Bosley "was not my Father Dowling. He created his own Father Dowling." However, he added, that "you can't sell your story and then complain." 
Mcinerny, who began his writing career as a short story writer in the 1960's, began writing to supplement his in­come and to pay his mortgage. 
According to Mcinerny, "pro­fessors weren't paid a lot then." For monetary reasons, he sub­mitted his works to magazines, many of which were directed towards women, such as Hodbook, Good Housekeeping, and Lady's Home Journal. 
He would teach all day, put his kids in bed, prepare for the next class day, and, then, he would write in his basement, usually from 10 p.m .. to 2 a.m. 
Most of Mcinerny's early sto­ries were written from the point of view of a female, he says. Leave of Absence, one of his favorite books, is about two women who were friends when they were young. 
The two women, at the beginning of the story, had dif­fering viewpoints, but as the story progresses, they exchange viewpoints. 
Mcinerny continues to write every day; however, he says that writing every day does not necessarily make a good writer. 
"I don't think that quantity and quality are linked in writ­ing. What matters is that you do it well." 
Mcinerny says he knows a lot of writers who write every day, "but they don't produce a lot." 
He speaks of writers who complain about their work not having enough readers. 
"There is a group of writers who are still enjoy writing," Mcinerny says, and he consid­ers himself one of the group. 

L 
0 
::J 
V ~ ~ 
He used to have a banner above his typewriter that 
showed,  what  he  calls  his  
"motto":  "No one owes you a  
reading."  
This  saying  reminds  

Mcinerny of his goal as a writer -"to engage the interest of the reader and hold it." Mcinerny says the essence of acquiring an audience is to write about "an attractive human being in a dilemma" and to make an "ac­count of the effort of that hero or heroine to solve a problem." 
When asked what is appeal­ing about Father Dowling as a hero and why he was popular as both a literary character and a television character, Mcinerny responded, "I don't know why people like it, but they do." Perhaps, he said sim­ply, "because he's so nice." 
In 1973, Mcinerny had what he considers his "genuine best­seller." His book The Priest. was a story of what life in the Church was like for young men at that time. 
Although Mcinerny enjoyed the success of his book, he real­izes the pressure put on a writer in producing another book following a best -seller. 
"People expect you to do it again," he says. "You feel as if you did something wrong if it's not a best-seller." 
Mcinerny would prefer an 

extended career to a larger au­dience, which may only be tem­porary. 
"I want to have a long dis­tance runner's career. I'm not interested in writing a best-sell­er if it's going to have that kind of effect. The pressure isn't on me to have a huge audience." 
Most writers, especially best­selling authors, according to Mcinerny, "keep returning to an obsessive theme." Mcinerny says he wants to do a lot of things, including varying his themes. 
He has written over fifty nov­els and "academic books," in­cluding four mystery series', some of which he wrote under a pseudonym. Some of his books have been translated in French, German, and Italian. 
Mcinerny's literary credits include the Lifetime Achievement Award at the Bouchercon XXIV mystery writ­ers' convention in 1993. 
Mcinerny is the father of six children, all of whom graduat­ed from Notre Dame. 
He says that after teaching at Notre Dame for four decades, he hoped to see his children fol­low in his footsteps. 
"When you give yourself to this place, you don't want your kids to go someplace else." 
------~~--~~--------, 
The Bead Workshop
0000000000 
Over 1000 different beads of all shapes and sizes and a full line of supplies! Need a study break? Come in for some bead therapy. 
expiration date 12124/94 
10 o/o OFF With This Ad! 
2222 Mishawaka Ave.  Tues,fri--11 am,6 pm  
Near Ironwood  Sat  -10 am'S pm  
237 0500  


Happy 
Thanks8ivin8 from the ~alon Nouveau ~tafl1 
full &rvice 8alon 


Speaking on his dual career as a teacher of philosophy and medieval studies and a writer, Mcinerny says, "I am thankful." 
"Being a professor is one of the most satisfying careers in the world. Writing is one of the most satisfying things to do in 
Wanted: Reporters, photogra­phers and editors. Join The Observer staff. Call631-5323 

the world." "To do both," he says, "is al­most a crime." 
It may be a crime, but Mcinerny has done both suc­cessfully at Notre Dame for the past forty years. And that's no mystery. 
1357 N. Ironwood liair • 8kin • Nails 

Notre Dame
(Cor23Z6767ocxJ) ...~~'-~ 
IWr c.. •Slolr\ c.. •c.bw c-..ln 

Liturgical Choir Reunion Concert 
Main & Jefferson 

November 18, 1994
Hours 
Mon-Sat 11:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m. 
amz y Owne Business Sun 4:00-9:00 p.m. 
257-1100 
"This is How Pizza is Supposed to Taste" 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 


University of Notre Dame
3 and 6 foot Party Subs 

8:45pm
For Fast Delivery 

0MPU5
Call 272-2EAT 
$2 off large pizza with Student ID 

tv11NI5TRY 
Friday, November 18, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 11 
Pope pressures Aristide to leave priesthood 
By VICTOR L. SIMPSON 
A..sociated Press 
VATICAN CITY 

When Pope John Paul II vis­i t e d Nicaragua a decade ago, he shook his finger angri­ly at the cul­ture minister Pope John -a priest-Paul II and told him to "straighten out your posi­tion" with the church. 


Three years earlier, John Paul told the Rev. Robert Dri­nan to give up his congres­sional seat in Massachusetts or the priesthood. 
So the Vatican says it should be no surprise that the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide -now restored as president of Haiti -finds himself in a similar dilemma. 
But while Drinan chose the priesthood and did not seek a second term, Ernesto Cardinal of Nicaragua ignored the pope's warning. He remained a priest and stayed in politics. 
According to reports from the Haitian capital, Aristide has de­cided to leave the priesthood and will soon write to the Vati­can for release from his vows. Sources, who demanded anonymity, said he had been pressured by the Vatican. 
The Vatican denied pressur­ing Aristide, but went out of its way Thursday to show Aristide had long been sanctioned for his political activities. 
In an unusual step, the Vati­can listed the sanctions taken against Aristide in 1988, and the canon laws he had run afoul. 
It noted his expulsion from the Salesian Order, which ac­cused him of inciting class war with his liberation theology teachings, and said Aristide had been suspended from the priesthood until he left politics. The Vatican approved the ac­tions by the order, as required by church law. 
There was nothing new about the Vatican disclosures. What was unusual was that the Vati­can chose to comment at all. 


Where your family can have 
Fun, Fun, Fun! 
Fun Pa1a 
Look af whaf one per1on gef1••• 

• 2 Rounds of Miniature Golf 
•1 Gameof~ 
• 
A slice of Putter's Fresh-made Pizza and a Small Drink 

• 
1 Ride on the [fo.rwa ~ • 1 0 Game tokens 



When purchased separa is a $14.95 value Your Everyday Low Price 
only $10·.~.~.. 

Hours Mon-Thurs 10-1 0 Fri-Sat 10-11 Sunday 1-10 
Town & Country Shopping Center 
2500 Miracle Lane Mishawaka, IN 46545 
(219)254-01 00 


AIDS grows at slower pace 
could be made, Ward said. 
New definiton The CDC now says there were 61,800 AIDS cases diagnosed last year, up 3
causes case 
percent from 60,000 in numbers to jump 1992. In 1992, diagnosed 
Growing more slowly

cases were counted sep­arately from reported cases. 
Estimated number of persons diagnosed

By MARC RICE 
annually with AIDS-related illness:

"The epidemic continued
Associated Press 
to grow in 1993, but not at ATLANTA the extent that has been 
~ 

The AIDS epidemic is growing observed in earlier years," at a slower pace, though a Ward said. revised definition of the illness The 3 percent increase in initially caused a huge jump in the growth of the epidemic the number of new cases being continued a downward reported, federal health offi-trend in the rate of the cials said Thursday. growth of AlDS, Ward said. 
The Centers for Disease For example, he said, in Control and Prevention, based the early 1980s, newly diag­on the new definition, had said nosed cases were more than 
~ 

that 105,990 AIDS cases were doubling each year. By the reported in the United States mid 1980s, the annual rate 
1981T ~3' 
·ss''87 ·s1 '93

during 1993, more than double of increase averaged 
'82 '84 '86 '88 '90 '92

the 49,016 reported in 1992. between 50 percent and'60 But the expanded definition percent. By the late '80s, the 
Source:CentersforDiseaseControl AP 


"dumped into the system" annual rate of increase was many people who did not truly down to about 10 percent. qualify as new cases, said Dr. Dr. Mervyn Silverman, presi­John Ward, chief of the dent of the New York-based Atlanta-based CDC's AIDS sur-American Foundation for AIDS veillance branch. Research, said he was pleased 
The old definition diagnosed to see the numbers. But he HIV patients with AIDS when worried the public might misin­they got any of 23 indicator dis-terpret them as evidence the eases. AIDS problem is ending. 
The new definition lists three "Sixty-two thousand, whether additional diseases -tubercu-... it's 105,000 or not, is an un­losis, recurrent pneumonia and conscionably horrible number," invasive cervical cancer -plus he said. "All it says is that the seve-rely suppressed immune level of AIDS is flattening out, systems as AIDS indicators. It but at a totally unacceptable took effect Jan. 1, 1993. level." 
Researchers spent the last The new definition has im­eight months analyzing the re-proved estimates of the number ports to separate from the and characteristics of people 105,990 total those who were with the disease, the CDC said. first diagnosed with AIDS in But it also has complicated the 1993, so that a meaningful interpretationofAlDStrends. comparison with previous years "The best way to track the 
DOOLITTLE'S PUB 
291--6544 
Home of the DooLittles Amazing Sub & 1/2 lb Pub Burger Serving Food 11 a.m...Midnight daily! Join the Around the World Import Club 
4407 S. Ironwood 
Every Sunday Night 
HOURS: 
"Rock Sunday" 
Mon.-Sat lla.m• .-3a.m. 
301 Dart Tournament 
Sun 12-12 
$5 entry, 100% pay back 

Looking for a place to stay during: r.rJunior Parents' Weekend? r.rGraduation? 
r.rHome Football Games, etc.? 
·:· ·:· 

'68 Alum Renting Out Magnificent Home for ND Special Events 
•Close 
to Campus (Only 2 miles!) 

•Safe 
Neighborhood 

•Competitive 
Rates ~Fully Equipped Kitchen 

•QB 
Club Access I Summit Club 

•
Privacy For Group of Friends 

•
Accommodates up to 14 Call Helen for more information @ 219-287-8163 


disease is by the number of cases diagnosed, not by the number of reports you get in your mailbox," Ward said. "We put out that (earlier) total num­ber because those people really are sick, but in tracking the epidemic you've got to look at the number that are diag­nosed." 
As the initial impact of the new definition diminishes, the CDC predicted the number of new cases in 1994 would drop below last year's figure. Through September, a total of 63,101 new AIDS cases had been reported to the CDC, com­pared with 88,075 cases in the same period last year and 36,333 in the first nine months of 1992. 

The ickorY Uillase Love Affair 
Look At What 
$295 
Can Get Vou: 
• 
AGreat One-Bedroom Apartment 

• 
(Efficiencies from $280, Two Bedrooms Available from $355!) 

• 
Sparkling Paul and Sundeck -• Beautiful Clubhouse 

• 
Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees 

• 
Attentive Staff 

• 
Laundry Facilities 

• 
Cable TV Available 

• 
Close to Great Shopping 

• 
Air Conditioning 

• 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance 


212-1880 

Call or stop by today and v.e'll show you how great living at Hickmy Village can be. 
+UCKORU 
VlLLA~E~ 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 &Sun. 12-4 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, November 18, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OHICE: 309 Haggar• Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Pe<ers Managmg F.di10r Bwiness Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spnn. Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabe<h Regan Conrroller ...••..•.....••..••...•.•............ Kristen Manina 
The )h"'"'"' is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre DamC' du Lu.. and Saint Mary's College. h docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials rC'prc~nt the opinion of 1hl majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Edimr, News Ediror, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. ( :ommentarics. letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is av;-ail.1ble to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary1 s com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-on-....hief Managing Editor/Viewpoont Sports News/Photu Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
• OUR LAND 
Observer Phone Lines 
J31-4542 Business Otnc" 631-5313 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 


A racial quandary: Affirmative action in America 
·we huve talked long enough in this country about equal rights. We nave talked for a hundred years or more. It is time now to write the next chapter­and to writP in the books oflaw. " 
-Lyndon B. Johnson 
~~ is unfortunate, but despite Lyndon Johnson's best and worst efforts, we are still talking in America. We are no clos­er to providing equal rights for all Americans today than we were thirty or ,wen fifty years ago. The same policies of using race as a criterion for employ­ment and education decisions still exist today, with only a slight variation: the victims. Now white America is discrimi­nated against, in the name of equal op­portunity for minorities. 
Affirmative action, for several reasons, wishes to increase representation of some minority groups in several areas of life-representation that would not exist if people were judged on merit alone. Affirmative action mandates that admis­sions officers and employers use race as a critenon, sometimes a determining criterion, in their decisions in order to guarantee that they reach the proper representation of minority groups, often regardless of qualification considera­tions. 
The consequences of racial gerryman­dering are grim for democracy. How can a system where people freely choose their government and their livelihood survive when constantly suffocated under pressure to make race a govern­ing factor in pr· .P as well as political life? By rejecting tlw affirmative action mentality that has gov1~rned too much of this nation for too long and by fighting for a color blind soeiety, a society that eliminates both ppr-;onal prejudice and institutional racism, we have an oppor­tunity in Amerira to increase democracy on an unparallt>IPd level. Only once olli­cial decisions in America are race-blind can one expect private decisions to be raee-blind as well. And even if the color blind society is an impossible dream, like many goals worth lighting for, the closer we can come, the..better off we are. 

The case for affirmative action is based on three main arguments, each of which can be refuted on principles of justice, fairness, and logic: 
• Affirmative Action for past discrimi­nation. Because of the terrible injus­tices of the past, the argument goes, minorities need some extra help to catch up to other ethnic groups who did not undergo equal forms of oppression or who benefited from the oppression of minorities. There is nothing inherently 
Brian Fitzpatrick 
wrong with providing reparations for injustices; the problem is how the repa­rations are made. By giving to minori­ties who are less qualified, in the name of reparation for past injustice, others who are more qualified are denied. There would be no objection if those who are denied that which they deserve, those who are effectively being punished for the injustices of the past, were actu­ally the perpetrators of the injustices. However, this is not the case. We seek instead to punish all whites and reward all minorities. It is of no concern if those whites who are punished were not yet alive when the injustices occurred, if they in no way contributed to the wrongs that we seek to remedy; all that matters is the color of their skin. Punishing the offspring of oppressors is equivalent to punishing the children of murders rather than the murderers themselves. In addition, how do we know the white kid-better qualified but denied admission to Harvard because of his skin color-did not recently arrive in America from another part of the world? Neither he nor his family may have in any way benefited from exploitation of minorities, but he is pun­ished just the same. Nor is it a concern if those who benefit from affirmative action have actually incurred any dam­ages due to past injustices. Affirmative action rewards the offspring of slave owners (3000 Black families owned Black slaves in the ante-bellum South) and recent minority immigrants to America the same as it rewards those who have been ruthle~sly oppressed and denied opportunity due to terrorizing policies of the past. Thus, affirmative action misplaces punishment and mis­handles reward. 
• Affirmative Action for present dis­crimination. Because, the argument goes, whites dominate the power struc­ture politically and economically. and whites are largely racist, they will discriminate against minorities when the latter apply for jobs, university admission, etc. Thus, allirmative action is needed to insure that minorities have the same opportunity as everyone else in acquiring that which they deserve; in effect, affirmative action exists to counter the effects of current racial dis­crimination. 
First, the notion that every employer is a racist and therefor every employer should be subjected to affirmative action is untrue. I would venture to guess that the vast majority of employers would be more than happy to hire qualified minorities, and just because a few employers still do discriminate does not mean that all should be punished through affirmative action mandates. Even if the discrimination is greater that I expect, a more sensible, not to mention fair. approach would require one to prove that racial discrimination still exists at an institution before subjecting it to affirmative action measures. Only at those institutions that currently dis­criminate should affirmative action for present discrimination apply. 
To apply the measure on a grand 
scale under this argument is equivalent to implicating all whites in a racist, oppressive scheme that just does not exist. If allirmative action is the penalty for racial discrimination in the present, then only penalize those who commit the crime. 
• Affirmative Action for Diversity. Diversity is the newest justification for affirmative action, largely because the other two arguments have failed to con­vince most Americans. Affirmative action for diversity assumes an inherent value in an environment where people of many perspectives, viewpoints, and backgrounds coexist. It seems logical, that at institutions where education is the goal, it is valuable to have as many viewpoints expressed as possible, so that ideas may dash and provide a more dynamic intellectual environment. Similarly, diversity of perspective can be valued in the workplace, where more than one way of looking at a problem can lead to a better answer. Unfortunately, an individual's perspec­tives and viewpoints have little to noth­ing to do with skin color. Clarence Thomas and Ronald Reagan, while at opposite ends of the complexion spec­trum, are strikingly similar in beliefs and viewpoints. For any given individ­ual, diversity of skin color in no way guarantees diversity of viewpoint. To say that diversity of viewpoint is a func­tion of skin color is to say that all people of certain races think the same, and to assure that all viewpoints are repre­sented, all races must be included. Clearly, if one were genuinely interested in obtaining, say intellectual diversity, it would be far more effective to ask col­lege applicants to state their philosophi­cal, literary, and religious views on a wide range of questions rather than ask­ing for their skin color. 
Brian Fitpatrick is a junior enginet~r­ing major. He lives in Planner Hall. 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• llOONESGl~Y 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 


VIEWPOINT
Friday, November 18, 1994 page 13 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Seeking victory in print more challenging than in the flesh 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the great lack of substantial and in­depth sports reporting on sub­jects outside of Notre Dame foot­ball. As something of a dis­claimer, let me say that I have been a faithful fan of Notre Dame football for years, and I continue to be a faithful fan despite the team's unusually poor perfor­mance this year. 
The main focus of the November 14 Observer was the tragic defeat of our football team. There was very little said about the advancement of out #1­ranked Women's Soccer team to the NCAA Final Four, or about the NCAA Quarterfinals held at Alumni Field on Saturday and Sunday. All together, there were four complete pages of pictures and text detailing the football both football and soccer, I can worth reporting, there is noth~g team's loss to Florida State. Text assure the Sports Editor that I in Notre Dame athletics worth and pictures regarding the soc­would much rather read about reporting. cer games barely filled a page victory than defeat. My primary concern is that the and a half in the very back sec­Andy Cabiness, Sports Copy less-recognized sports at Notre tion of the paper! Editor for The Observer, avoided Dame will continue to receive lit­
It simply does not make sense the issue completely in Monday's tle recognition by the students. that the defeat of an unranked paper. Rather than "Holtz-criti­It's unfortunate that, despite my football team should receive al­cizing of Powlus-Bashing," or daily perusing of the Chicago most four times as much space writing about the success of Tribune , I must fmd an Observer as the success of a #1 ranked other Notre Dame athletics, to get any information at all soccer team. One might say that Cabiness chose to write about about the soccer teams. Fair and the average reader of The politics. The message, of course, accurate reporting on Notre Observer is much more inter­is that politics is more of a sport Dame Athletics, and on our ested in Notre Dame football than, say, soccer. Although poli­nationally renowned Women's than in Notre Dame soccer, but I tics can often be just as messy as Soccer team specifically, must propose that it is the responsibili­a soccer game on a muddy field, I start here, in the Notre Dame ty of The Observer to report the would not go so far as to call it a newspaper. news with fairness and accuracy, sport. taking into account the signifi­The implication of Cabiness' BEN TRIGG cance of events like the NCAA column is that because there is Freshman Quarterfinals. And as a fan of nothing in Notre Dame football Dillon Hall 
• I AM Nor A POTTED PLANT 
Jesus leaps from flaming pulpit to political frying pan 
My last article suggested that the dif­ference between Catholic and Protestant approaches to certain political issues was colored by irrevocable theological differences. Because of this, I said, Catholics should not join the organiza­tion of the religious right. 
Empirically, there are differences between Catholics and Conservative Protestants. Catholics tend to be as pro­life as Southern Baptists and Evangelicals, but that is about the extent of the agreement between Catholics and the conservative Protestant sects. On issues like homosexuality, premarital sex, etc., only a very small minority (approximately 20 percent) of Catholics are very conservative (most are moder­ate), whereas among Southern Baptists and Evangelicals, that number is 50-70 percent conservative. 
Among Catholics, the pro-life stance tends to be associated with opposition to capital punishment and euthanasia, while among conservative Protestants, being pro-life correlates more with sup­port for prayer in schools and a willing­ness to pull commie books off school library shelves. The difference is not stark; there are many people in the Catholic camp who are similar to conservative Protestants. But consid­ered in aggregate, the differences between Catholics and conservative Protestants can't be overlooked. I don't want to generalize, but there are a lot of pro-life Catholics who don't fit into the standard category of religious conserva­tives. 
One response is to say that Catholics who aren't conservative on all the hot­button religious issues aren't real Catholics. I suppose that may be true in some cases. Nevertheless, when I see a huge swing in numbers, I suspect an explanation besides simple religious apostasy. Why, I ask, do Catholics split so widely on these issues, when we are much more united on abortion (over 50 percent). More specifically, why are so many Catholics "inconsistent" with the American labels of religious conserva­tive/religious liberal? 
I suspect that this question is not unconnected to the language that Catholics use to defend their positions. Catholics then not to cite the Bible, or Papal encyclicals as support for their positions. We don't cite Jesus leaping 
Charles Roth 


within Mary's womb to say why we're pro-life. We say that unborn children are humans, and have the "right-to­life." I sometimes think we are so inured to this language that we don't realize how abstract it is. It's a theoreti­cal argument about when life begins, based on biology and philosophy, but it doesn't have to be that way. We could have bumper stickers that say "God is Pro-life," or make simple arguments about the immoral sexual conduct that leads to abortion. But we don't. 
We Catholics tend to be uncomfortable with religion in the public sphere, if it's used too much. Terms like "Bible­thumpers," "Holy Rollers," and "televan­gelists" seem to me to echo in the Catholic consciousness as negatives. They mostly describe conservative Protestants, as we see them in our mind's eye. As I think about it though, I have to admit that these thoughts are a strange form of prejudice, and are prob­ably unjust. 
Moreover, I can see one very good rea­son why Catholics might tend to differ from conservative Protestants. Catholics tend to be wealthier and better educated than Southern Baptists and Evangelicals. The stereotype of conserv­ative Protestants is even worse. Theoretically, this would be of prime importance in explaining why my views differ from some seventy year old Southern racist wearing bib overalls. It makes some sense that he and I would have different approaches to the use of reason in fashioning arguments. But 'Obviously not all conservative Protestants are poorly educated, and certainly they're not racists. And when I think about it, I can see that conserva­tive Protestants are no less reasoning in their political attitudes than Catholics. 
Thus, I was wrong about the place­ment of "reason" in my argument. Catholics not only aren't wrong to join organizations like the one I attacked, but they're probably right to do so. 
That said (mea culpa! mea culpa!), I'd like to explain where I wasn't wrong. The Catholic Church argues for "conser­vative" sexual morality based on the "Natural Law," and the Church's consis­tent tradition. The Church doesn't focus on the Bible, and frankly, I don't think most Catholics place as much weight upon Bible passages as Protestants. One passage that goes against you doesn't cause you to give in. But among educat­ed Catholics, basing something on the Natural Law is like an invitation to dis­cuss. Philosophical theories are open for discussion, right? So why not talk about why such and such is wrong? Hence, there is discussion, and people end up coming down on one side or the other. This can happen because we're convinced , or because we like to com­promise, or because we don't want to upset anyone. The process certainly doesn't lead to strict obedience, as many would wish for. 
The Church's tradition would seem to be a more persuasive argument, but we Americans aren't big on tradition. Moreover, there are some things (non­theological, to be sure) in the Catholic past that were simply not good (e.g. the Third Crusade, the Inquisition). There are some things, such as treatment of women, that many people think were not good. Essentially, neither tradition nor the natural law provides a dis­cussion-ending rationale for those sup­porting conservative sexual mores. 
Among Protestants, there seems to be more stability within sects. Simply put, if the Bible is up for individual interpre­tation, conservative people will tend to be consistently conservative, liberals lib­eral, and moderates moderate. So among Protestants, it's no surprise that there's "consistency." "Splitting the ticket" on these issues is rightly consid­ered to be hypocrisy and/or cowardice. 
But since Catholics seem to look at it differently, the Catholic Church, if it wishes to gain the obedience of American Catholics, must either (1) make clear that tradition isn't the sort of thing you argue with, (2) increase textu­al reliance on the Bible, which is tough given the Catholic tradition of under­emphasis (this option would take time, since automatic respect for the Bible must be inculcated) or (3) come up with more convincing arguments for the offi­cial stands of the Church. 
I am still a bit afraid that Protestant­oriented political groups won't make the sorts of arguments that will convince me and those like me who want to be con­vinced by non-Biblical rational argu­ment. But I will hope for the best. Hopefully, I'm right this time. 
Roth is a second year law student. 


page 14 The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, November 18, 1994 
The gods smile on production of 
' 

Euripides' "The Bacchae" 



By THOMAS KANE Theatre Critic 
A colorful chorus of Bacchae women and a coolly played Dionysos bring life to the Notre Dame Communication and Theatre's production of one of the Greek playwright Euripides last and most neglected works, the tragedy of "The Bacchae." 
While set in ancient Greece, the play transcends time; the corruption in government of Euripides' time is still seen to­day. Like Shakespeare's works, it calls for balance. Euripides' play, however, goes a step fur­ther than tragedies by Shakespeare, such as "Julius Caesar" or "Hamlet," both of which have been performed in Washington Hall over the past couple years. 
It brings into play a god ele­ment. The Bacchae, not only makes a statement about cor­ruption of politicians, but also the objects of worship of the Greek people. 
Along with the struggle between human qualities such as thought and action found in a play such as Hamlet, there is a struggle between the divine and the human. Such conflicts fuel the play. 
The opening scene sets the tone , with the god of wine Dionysos (Josh Hartman) confi­dently strutting down the steps of a Greek temple to give his prologue. 
With long dark hair, and wearing little more than a few fig leaves, he bears a strong resemblance to a more whole­some Steve Tyler of Aerosmith performing "Walk This Way." 
Though the audience may be a little taken aback by this dis­play of flesh, it doesn't phase the "fawn eyed" Dionysos-­and why should it? Being cocky and wearing close to nothing are all part of being a god. 
Through his reflection on his godly lineage and his appear­ance itself we are given a hint that he is slightly against the outward culture of the times. 
While Dionysos' role is impor­tant, the Chorus of the Bacchae, a group of women from Lydia of Asia minor who are devoted fol­lowers of Dionysos make the show. 
These 10 wandering women wearing eyeshadow and purple dresses slink over the stage in catlike motions as they chant in unison "Dionysos, Dionysos." With their teeth showing, as they pound their ivy and bell covered thyrsus (or staffs) in rhythm with their chant, these Bacchae appear more dement­ed than sinister. 
All to eager to join in on this new movement are the two wise old men, Tiresias (Amanda Rat:us) and Kadmos · (Eugene Johnson). To them, new creed means new life . "I am old, yet I go dancing...In the dance all are equal," says Kadmos. And according to Tiresias, their are two main powers in life. The first is earth, and the second is Dionysos, whom he metaphori­cally relates with wine. 
"Discover his juice of the grape to relieve our parched throats...drink him down," he says. However Kadmos' son, the ruler Pentheus (Andrew Rausch), at least outwardly op­
poses the decadent festi­vals that take place in the forest late at night--and he even questions the power of Dionysos. 
"No more dancing, no more orgies, no more Bacchae!", Pentheus says as he orders the capture of Dionysos. Later, in re­sponse to testi­mony that d o o r s unlocked themselves and gates opened as the manacled 
Dionysos was brought back into town, he 
The Obseover!Brandon Candura 

Amanda Rafuse perfroms in The Bacchae on opening night at Washington Hall. 
admits "It would seem that you have a certain presence." However, he is quick to bring this god back to earth. Examining Dionysos modest physique, he adds "It appears that you never wrestled." 
While initially adamant in his distaste for Dionysos, this god's spirit eventually capture him as well, and he pleads with his captive to help him get a look at the festivals which are taking place in the forest. In a comi­cal scene, he asks Dionysos .to disguise him like a woman (talk about "Dude Looks Like a Lady,") and sneak him in for a peak. 
"Teach me how to walk like a Bacchae," he asks , and then awkwardly proceeds to raise his staff in time with the marching of his right foot as Dionysos instructs him. Such moments of comic relief are short-lived, however. 
The Bacchae, aware of the corruption of Pentheus ("All his heart corrupted, all his mind a sewer"), take up possibly the most eerie, staff pounding, chant of the play. Purring, slithering, echoing each other, with eyes wide open with mor­bid anticipation, they communi­cate a death wish for Pentheus with a tone so demented it makes the murder plot from Shakespeare's Mac Beth seem almost humane. 
One thing that makes the play 

work is the use of contrasts. while Uionysos sits in the dark­Through clever staging, the au­ness ("Darkness has dignity," dience is able to see Pentheus he remarks in one scene). It throw a tantrum while Dionysos almost seems a violation to be and his followers sit coolly in able to see countenances of the wings. Pentheus is in the Dionysos and his followers as 
Twice in the play characters remark offhandedly that bal­ance is the key to success and happiness in life. It also makes for an entertaining play. 


..---~----~--------------~-­

Friday, November 18, 1994 

The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 2 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE••• 

It's not only been 
total, he has added Johnny on the spot this nine more tackles for fall for Air Force, it has losses. frequently been Johnny Perhaps Harrison's on the stop. In fact, most important perfor­Johnny has made the mance came just last stop 55 times so far in week against then 12th his first ten games. ranked Utah. In the 
The Johnny in ques-Harrison Falcons' upset 40-33 
tion is Johnny Harrison. 
"The one guy who is really impressive is named Johnny Harrison," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz said. "He is an out­standing defensive end." 
The opposing quarterbacks would, in all liklihood, be among the first to agree with Holtz. They have good reason to. Harrison has wreaked havoc to the tune of 12 sacks this season. 
At 6-foot-1, 220-pounds, it is not Harrison's size that has been a problem, it is, as is the case with the entire AFA de­fense, his speed. 
"They create a lot of disrup­tions," Holtz said. "They run very, very well. They probably rush the passer as well as any team we have seen on film." 
Surely, Harrison has played the lead role on these films. In addition to his impressive sack 
win, the Plantation, Fla. native recorded six tackles, three sacks, and a forced fum­ble 
Last season, as a junior, Harrison was named to the sec­ond-team WAC defensive squad. This season, his eyes are solely on the first team to compliment his team's success. 
As it is with most opponents, a solid game against Notre Dame will not only increase vis­ibilty regionally, quite often, national exposure follows. Although Harrison probably harbors no hopes of the NFL due to his military commit­ment, some national attention would be more than welcome, if for no other reason than to help the Air Force Academy draw some better talent. 
Fisher DeBerry would proba­bly be happy just to get a few more Johnny Harrisons. 
-TIMSHE 

Air Force defense 
not just a small test 
By TIM SHERMAN Assistant Spons Editor 
Back in the 'good 'ol days, it was easy. Sweep right, fullback dive, quaterback keeper. Whatever they wanted. Notre Dame could move the ball whenever, however, and against whoev­er. 
Times sure have changed. 
This season, when up against any semblance of a decent defense, the Irish have struggled to put points on the board, let alone control the ball in a somewhat Notre Dame-like fashion. 
Tomorrow, they will face some semblance of a decent defense. In fact, Air Force may not just resemble a good defense, they might be one. 
Granted, they play in a division with a dirth of defense, the WAC, but so does BYU, who held the Irish to an embarrassing 14 points. 
The Falcons have been particualrily stingy against the run, allowing opposing backs a measly 2.7 yards per tote. 
Most notably, they allowed Northwestern's Dennis Lundy, the Wildcat who raced through the Irish defense for 127 yards, a mere 60. In addition, they held Wyoming's Ryan Christopherson, a true throwback boss, to only 27. 
"The difference between this Air Force team is their defense," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "Giving up about 100 yards a game rushing is excellent. They are very, very quick." 
They are for real against the rush. 
In past meetings with the Irish though, the only real thing about the Falcon run defense were the gaping holes it offered for the Irish backs to go marching through. Notre Dame has gained at least 227 yards via land in the past five meetings. 
Clearly, something is going to change. What that something is will depend on the offensive line of the Irish. With Lee Becton and Ray Zellars finally back to near full strength, the bur­den now rests squarely upon the broad shoulders of Joe Moore's men. 
At times last week in Orlando, the Irish line showed signs of returning to the glory days of the vaunted Notre Dame ground game. They have seemingly developed a bit of a comfort level with each other. 
Now they need to take the next step forward to domination. 
"Right now, I don't think we're as physical up front," Holtz noted. "We aren't as good fun­damentally as we need to be." 
The major reason they need to be tomorrow is named Johnny Harrison. 
The linebacker leads the teams in fumble recoveries, sacks, and tackles for losses. He is a bit undersized, but makes up for with his quick­ness and explosiveness. 
Not only does Fisher DeBerry's squad lead the WAC in rushing defense, they rank first in sacks with a remarkable 44. Up against an Irish front that has shown a disturbing tendency to allow opponents the cordial opportunity to meet Ron Powlus personally, the Falcons would love to show that they can do it against a name, if not quality, opponent. 
But will their secondary give them the neces­sary time. If Air Force has a defensive weak­ness, and by looking at the numbers they sure do, it is the pass defense. 
The Falcons not only love to hit the air them­selves, they are just as willing to let the opposi­tion fly the friendly skies. In fact, they have sur­rended a somewhat staggering 260 passing yards per contest. 
If Powlus gets the time, although that may be a fairly substantial if, he should be able to sit back and pick apart the Falcon backfield with ease. The speed and athleticism he faced last week just won't be there. If his decisions are sound, a big day in the air will be likely. 
It follows that Derrick Mayes, too, will enjoy the chance to face another service academy (get used to it). Someone besides Mayes must emerge. Prime candidates are Leon Blunt and Cikai Champion. 



• RATING THE IRISH 
Quarterback 3 Lou Holtz is fretting about Ron Powlus' confidence level after several lackluster performances. Powlus needs a big game against Air Force to restore his once unshakable self­assurance. 
Running Back 4 With Lee Becton and Ray Zellars healthy, the Irish boast one of the deepest and most talented running attacks in the nation. They will need to use every bit of it Saturday. 
Wide Receiver 3 Ron Powlus cannot live on Derrick Mayes alone. Without another serious receiving threat, Notre Dame's passing game is simply to easy to defend. 
Offensive Line 3 An improved performance against Florida State, but one game does not offer the kind of experience that the young Irish linemen desperately need. 

Defensive Line 3 Perhaps the most important area if the Irish hope to capa­bly defend the wishbone this weekend. 
Linebackers 3 Lyron Cobbins is a capable fill-in for Justin Goheen, but the emotion and experience of the senior will be missed. 
Secondary 3 Bobby Taylor showed signs of life against Florida State, but he can only do so much when no team will pass to his side. 
Special Teams 3 Kicing and punting have been pathetic at times, but Emmett Mosley has breakaway ability as a return man. 
Coaching 4 Holtz is still one of the best in the business despite an off season, but there is no greater challenge than preparing a team with little to play for. 

29 
Notre Dame has never needed an impressive victory more than it does now, and Air Force is normally an acco­modating victim. 

-~--­
------:--------------­
-----~ 

page 3 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, November 18, 1994 

FALCONS ON THE OFFENSIVE. 
Ill Ill 

Wishbone offense 
makes Falcons fly 
By JASON KELLY Quarterback Beau Morgan and the rest of the Associate Sports Editor Falcon offense have been making a lot defensive players feel vulnerable over the last two months. Minus one of its most experienced and emo­Air Force hasn't lost since September 17, 
tional leaders, the Notre Dame defense must stringing seven straight victories together thanks devise a plan to stop football's trickiest offense. in large part to an offense that has averaged 37 Senior linebacker Justin Goheen will sit out points per game during that stretch. Only in a Saturday's game against Air Force-the final 10-6 win over Army have the Falcons scored less 
home game of his career-with a rotator cuff than 34 points during their win streak. 
injury. Tactics, more than talent, have created the Snapping the Falcons' wishbone offense would offensive explosion. Service academies are hin­be difficult enough with Goheen in the lineup, dered in recruiting, but the Falcons' wishbone but without his presence it will be an even bigger has given many more talented teams fits. 
problem. "You have to be very well disciplined," Holtz "When you play the wishbone, particularly said. "The fullback will hurt you, the quarter­
when you play Air Force, you better have good back will hurt you, the pitch will hurt you, and 
execution because you cannot stop it with athlet­you really don't know what they're going to 
ic talent," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz cau­accentuate. It's going to be difficult to consider 
tioned. all four phases of the game on any designated The Irish will not lose athletic talent at play." , Goheen's spot. Sophomore backup Lyron Cobbins Halfbacks Jake Campbell and Jeremy Johnson has the physical tools, but it's his relative lack of are Morgan's two favorite options. Campbell is experience that could make him vulnerable to the team's leading healthy rusher, with 581 
the wishbone. yards this season on 91 carries, an average of 
6.4 yards per carry. Johnson averages eight yards each time he touches the ball. Of the Falcons' top six rushers, only Morgan averages less than five yards per carry. 
But that's pretty typical of the Air Force offense. What's unusual is its passing game. With two regular-season games remaining, the Falcons have thrown for 1,248 yards, the most in a single season at the school since 1989. 
A slight shift in their offensive formation has helped to open up the air. 
"(The new formation) presents more problems than the old fashioned wishbone did because you get on the corner quicker and your passing game is so much more efficient," Holtz said. 
But the Falcons' have always had an efficient offense against the Irish, just not the talent to turn that efficiency into victory: 
Notre Dame has the clear edge in talent again this season and its defense, despite the four loss­es, has helped keep scores respectable. Last week's loss to Florida State could have been much worse if the defense hadn't held the Seminoles out of the endzone for the entire first half. 
Air Force has the tricks, if not the tools, to move the ball against the Irish like Florida State did. But Notre Dame would gladly concede a few yards here and there in exchange for a victory. 
"I know that Air Force is going to move the football," Holtz said. "They've done it against everybody they played, they've done it against Notre Dame every time we played them, so there's no doubt." 
The only question is whether or not the Irish defense, as it has in past years, can keep the Falcons from moving the ball too far. 


Beau Morgan isn't 
"Beau is a little just the latest quarter­more talented athlete back to run the 'bone than Preston," Air at the Air Force Force coach Fisher Academy. DeBerry said. "He just 
He may be the best. doesn't have the play­
Only 5-foot-11 and ing experience. He only a s_ophomore, did an outstanding Morgan has helped Morgan job for us in a big pilot the Falcons to a game against Navy, so 7-3 mark, including a 40-33 it's not like he hasn't been to drubbing of then 12th-ranked war." Utah last week in his first col­But he has never been in a legiate start. battle like the one he will face 
But it was only two weeks on Saturday. Though he di­ago, when Air Force defeated rected the upset of Utah, a Army 10-6 to clinch the team more highly regarded in Commander-in-Chiefs Trophy, the rankings than Notre that Morgan became the chief Dame, the Utes' defense navigator. doesn't exactly dominate. 
He had appeared in every Despite its struggles, Notre previous game, behind starter Dame will provide Morgan's Preston McConnell. But greatest challenge. McConnell's season ended And, in return, he may pro­when he separated his shoul­vide the Irish with one of their der against the Cadets. most difficult tasks of the sea­
Welcome to the captain's son: Stopping the wishbone, chair. with an option to pass. 
Already the team's fifth­"Beau Morgan is a very tal­leading rusher despite split­ented young man," Notre ting time, Morgan has blos­Dame coach Lou Holtz said. somed since becoming the "They've always been a very starter. fine offensive football team, 
He has more than 1,000 and this year they throw the yards in total offense this sea-ball more." son. -JASON KELLY 




32 
As sad as it may seem, Air Force has a chance to win this game for the first 
time since 1985. And 
they just might have 
the skills to do it, too. 

Quarterback 4 Beau Morgan proved to be a big game quarterback in his first collegiate start last week against Utah, but his inex­perience could hinder him Saturday. 
Running Back 4 None of the top five Falcon runners average less than five yards per carry. Bad news for an Irish defense that allowed 332 yards on the ground last week. 
Wide Receiver 3 Richie Marsh and Alex Pupich can catch, they just never get the ball. Their blocking ability is much more valuable than their pass receiving ability. 
Offensive Line 4 You can't question an offensive line when a team is aver­aging more than 450 yards per game. Their ability to run block may be the difference in this game. 
• RATING THE FALCONS 

Defensive Line 4 Jason Tone leads this unit with eight sacks, while the defensive line on a whole has can stop the run. 
Linebackers 4 Johnny Harrison may be one of the best linebackers the Irish will face this year. 
Secondary 3 Though it is a unit full of juniors and seniors, it is not one full ofstrength. Coverage is a problem, tackling isn't. 
Special Teams 3 Randy Roberts has both range and accuracy kicking field goals. The rest of this unit is mediocre at best. 
Coaching 3 Fisher DeBerry has this team on a seven-game win streak. But running the option on every other play is not much ofa testament to good coaching. 
-MIKE NORBUT 
Friday, November 18, 1994 

The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page4 
FALCONS 
1 2 3 4 T PASSING Comp AH Pet Yda TO lnt Lg FIELD GOALS D-29 3D-3a 40-48 50+ Tot 
57 98 102 47 304 McConnell 39 74 52.7 690 5 2 50 Roberts 2-3 H 3-7 D-3 11-19 
73 41 46 57 219 Morgan 26 57 45.6 558 3 2 67 
PUNTING No Avg Bk Lg AFA Opp RECEIVING Rae Yda Avg TO Lg Carr 41 42.3 NA 54 First downs 205 198 Marsh 19 243 12.9 0 43 Total yards 4404 3425 J. Johnson 14 293 20.9 3 61 KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO LgTotal yards per gama 440.4 342.5 Hancock 6 234 29.3 2 50 Hudgins 11 21.8 0 31 Total offensive plays 732 833 Campbell 8 206 26.0 3 67 Dalton 8 19.8 0 40 Avg. yards per play 6.02 5.41 Pupich 5 108 21.6 0 33 Rushing yards 3158 1089 Hendricks 4 62 15.5 0 20 PUNT RETURNS No Avg TO Lg Rushing yards per game 315.6 108.9 King 23 8.3 0 31 Rushing plays 801 378 ALL-PURPOSE Rush Rae Ret Tot Avg Passing yards 1246 2336 Campbell 581 208 32 821 82.1 INTERCEPTIONS No Yda TO Lg Passing yards per game 124.8 233.6 J. Johnson 444 293 22 759 75.9 Watldns 5 28 0 12 Passes completed 65 214 McConnell 594 0 0 594 59.4 King 4 
63 0 58 Passes attempted 131 287 Addison 508 0 0 508 50.8 Williams 2 7 0 7 Passes Intercepted 4 18 Morgan 464 0 0 464 46.4 Hudgins 1 28 1 28 
Fumbles I Fumbles lost 25/14 21/9 Maloy 306 10 0 316 31.6 Penalties-Penalty yards SD-440 64-534 Marsh 13 245 0 258 25.8 DEFENSE T A Tot FA PBU s.c Third down conversions 84-161 54-144 Hudgins 3 0 240 243 24.3 Russ 51 47 98 0 4 1 
Percentage 52.2 37.5 Hancock 0 234 0 234 23.4 Walker 40 43 63 0 1 1 Fourth down conversions 6-12 12-18 King 43 21 64 1 0
5 SCORING TO 2XP 1XP FG Sel Pte Harriaon 40 15 55 2 2 12 YdiiiGm No Yda Avg TO Lg Campbell 12 0 o-o 0 0 72 Hudgins 38 14 50 1 3 1 
59.4 118 594 5.1 8 78 Roberts 0 0 32-35 11 0 65 McCray 28 18 44 0 2 4 
58.1 91 581 8.4 9 74 J. Johnson 8 1 o-o 0 0 50 Williams 28 16 44 2 1 1 
50.8 91 508 5.6 0 56 McConnell 8 0 o-o 0 0 46 Davis 19 25 44 2 1 9 
46.4 108 464 4.3 3 62 Morgan 3 0 o-o 0 0 18 Tone 17 22 39 1 0 8 
44.4 78 444 5.8 5 67 D. Johnson 2 0 o-o 0 0 12 De Rock 18 23 39 0 0 3 
30.8 80 306 5.1 1 41 Hancock 2 0 o-o 0 0 12 Watklns 27 10 37 0 2 0 15.0 7 80 8.8 0 13 
Name Poa. Ht. WL VA 1 Demond Cash OB 6-Q 195 JR 
AIR FORCE

FISHER DEBERRY
2 Brian Watklns CB 5-7 165 SA 
3 Jason Olsen WR 8-Q 175 JR 
Sept. 3 CQLORADO STATE ?1-34,L
3 David Ray s 6-1 190 so 
4 Jeremy Johnson RB 5-9 170 SR 
Sept. 10 BYU: , 21-45, 
4 Tyrone Barbary K 5-7 150 so 

11th season at Air Force 
Sept. 17 NQ_R_TH-WESTE~tli)__ A'Q-14, L 8 Brandt House CB 5-9 188 so 5 Michael Walker CB 5-7 165 so 
Career Record at Air Force: 83-49-1 Sept. 24 at ~tEJ.; /<¥,~_>:~7-7, W 
7 Craig Hancock WR 6-Q 190 JR 
8 Jake Campbell RB 5·7 170 SA 

Against Notre Dame: 2-6 Oct. 1 at sart~~~-~ff*'p6-25, w 8 Nakla Addison RB 5-8 187 so 
Oct. 8 N~V'l-.:j [;:d.tf:;~ 43-21, W

Highlights: Took over as head coach of 
9 Kevin Williams CB 5-10 180 SA 
Oct. 22 . <FRESN0;-8TAlE 42-7, W
Preston McConnell OB 8-2 195 SA 
Antoin Alexander s 6-1 172 so 

the Falcons in 1984 and has since then Oct. 29 ·arwyoming·--:t 34-17, w 
1 Kelvin King s 6-Q 170 JR 11 David Ramsey K 5-8 175 so 

led them to seven bowl appearances. Nov. 5 at Army ~ 10-6, w 
12 Beau Morgan QB 5-11 165 so 

Nov. 12 UTAH .. 40-33, W 13 Andre Johnson QB 5-7 165 so 14 James Wadas K 5-9 180 SA 
Nov. 19 1:35 
15 Michael Bruhn lB 6-1 165 so 
Dec.3 
16 Randy Roberts K 6-Q 201 JR 18 Grag Ellingson QB 5-8 165 so 17 Gil Sanders lB 6-Q 190 SA 18 Sam Ransom s 6-2 195 JR 18 Phil Juhan QB 5-9 150 so 19 Michael Morrison s 6-4 190 so Tony Caperella RB 5-10 190 JR Riehle Marsh WR 8-2 180 JR Jason Gibbs K 5-10 180 so 

lAST TIME RECORDS 
John Rhone RB 8-1 205 SA Parks Hughes QB 5-10 165 JR John lchlyama RB 5-9 175 so Brian Mulloy CB 6-1 165 so 

Notre Dame 28 ND leads 1 7-4 
Adrian Smith RB 5-10 175 so 
Jeremy Polvln lB 5-10 205 so 

Air Force 15 Last ND win 
Nick Maglstrale lB 5-11 190 so 
Cory Crain RB 6-3 195 so 
28-15, 1991 
Michael DaHon CB 5-8 180 so 
Eric Rockhold RB 8-1 170 so 

Jerome Bettis (right) Last Air Force win 
Jake Maloy RB 8-Q 205 SA 
KurtKremser K 8-3 200 JR 

scored three touchdowns, 21-15, 1985 
LeRon Hudgins lB 6-1 205 JR 
Brandon Wilkerson RB 5-10 208 JR 

as Notre Dame scored on Streak 6 by ND 
Mitchell Spillers lB 8-0 210 so 
Judd File NG 5-10 220 JR 

four of its first five posses­At Notre Dame Stadium 
Marl< Sotallaro s 6-1 205 SA Matthew Domyancic lB 6-0 215 so sions while holding a Notre Dame leads 8-2 Greig Tanner RB 5-10 215 so Dania Johnson RB 5-11 180 JR 
potent Falcon attack to 
Brian Witkowsky OT 6-4 235 so 
Erasmo Perez RB 5-8 170 JR 
only 15 points. 

~ Johnny Harriaon lB 8-1 220 SA 44 Colby Hoelar lB 6-1 215 SA 45 Alex Pupich TE 6-3 235 so 46 Todd Ellers QB 5-10 170 so 47 Lae Guthrie lB 6-1 230 so 46 Johnny Vargas lB 8-2 225 JR 49 Bobby Holloway DT 6-3 255 JR 50 Steve Walker lB 8-1 217 SA 51 Chris Gizzi lB 8-Q 215 so 52 Adam Edwards c 8-2 240 JR 53 Bret Clllessen 00 6-1 250 JR 54 Mike Zeman c 8-1 240 so 
-FORCE 41&··
Brian McCray lB 6-Q 215 JR 
Oonald Leary c 8-3 235 so 
21-Richie Marsh, S-2, 180, JR OFFENSE ;DEFENSE OLB 43-Johnny Harrison, 6-1,221, SR

Doug Thumston c 8-1 240 SA 
Steve Russ lB H 250 SA 7-Craig Hancock, 6-0, 190, JR 
48-Johnny Vargas, 6-2, 220, JR 
Marl< DeRock NG 6-2 250 JR 
45-Aiex Puplch, S-3, 232, SO DT 75-Erlk Davis, 6-3, 270, SR
Matt Young OT 6-1 250 SR 

Nick Capotosto 00 6-4 270 SA 87-Steve Hendricks, 6-4, 225, JR 
49-Bobby Holloway, 6-3, 266, JR 
John Sapp OT 6-4 240 JR 
Richard Elsasser 00 265 74-Jim Moore, S-1, 2S2, SR 

ILB 58-Steve Russ, 6-6, 252, SR Jason Campbell DT 6-3 245 so 78-Gerhard Han, 6-2, 245, JR 6-3 JR 
56-Steve Fernandez, 6-1, 225, FR 
Brad Hall DT 6-3 245 JR 

Ed Harder OG 6-5 275 JR 7S-Carlton Hendrix, 6-3, 251, SO 
)IC 
1 j NG 59-Mark DeRock, S-2, 250, JR 
6-3 JR

Rick Dwyer OG 253 68-Paul McCreary, 6-1, 273, SR ; 96-Chris Schweighardt, 5-11, 240,
Paul McCreary 00 6-1 265 SA IJI 0 0 
John Scott OG 6-2 255 so 57-Rocky Thurston, S-1, 240, SR so-Steve Walker, S-1, 217, SR 
Chad Merritt OT 6-4 245 JR 

52-Adam Edwards, 6-2, 234, JR X 51-Chris Gizzi, 6-0, 223, JR
David Hammer DT 6-3 230 so 

Rodney Bullard DT 6-0 250 JR S9-Bret Cillessen, S-1, 252, JR .·.·:'·i:~·::>c .. •· 88-Jason Tone, S-5, 2S9, SR 
Noah Oviedo OT 8-2 251 so :_.,·1'.' . ! •. ; 
Daniel Palmar OT 250 61-Nick Capotosto, 6-4, 282, SR 95-Jamie Maunz, 6-4, 260, SO
6-4 JR 

Jim Moore OT 6-1 280 SA SO.Matt Young, S-1, 252, SR >C. 55-Brian McCray, s-o, 221, JR 
Erik Davis DT 6-3 265 SA 
65-Brad Hall, 6-3, 245, JR 90-Max Wade, 6-2, 210, FR
Cariton Hendrix OT 8-3 245 so 
X 

William House NG 8-1 225 so 12-Beau Morgan, 5-11, 187, SO 
32-LeRon Hudgins, S-1, 205, JR 
Gerhard Hahn OT 6-2 245 JR 
X
6-Phil Juhan, 5-9, 153, SO 17-Gil Sanders, 6-0, 190, SR
Jason Lamb lB 8-4 220 so 
Thomas Johnson WR 5-10 170 so 
LHB 8-Jake Campbell, 5·7, 175, JR 11-Kelvin King, S·O, 172, JR 
pSteve Carr 6-5 225 JR 
Larry Clifford WR 175 19-Tobin Ruff, 6-0, 198, FR
6-2 JR 
18-Sam Ransom, 6-2, 200, JR 
Joel Route TE 6-1 208 so 

RHB 4-Jeremy Johnson, 5·9, 170, SR 2-Brian Warklns, 5·7, 181, SR
WR 6-Q 170 so WR 5-11 165 so 40-Danta Johnson, 5-11, 179, JR 
29-Mickey Dalton, 5-7, 180, SO 
TE 6·5 JR 
TE 8-3 JR 30-Jake Maloy, S-0, 205, SR 

9-Kevln Williams, 5·10, 180, SR DT 6-5 SA 38-Nakia Addison, 5-8, 195, SO 
:... ~-:.~;· 46-B.J. Thomas, 5-10, 170, FR 
lB 6-2 so 
-~ 
lB 8-3 JR 
I 

TE JR I 
.'IL..:II~
·-· J 


pageS The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, November 18, 1994 
-

FIGHTING IRISH 



----------~--~~~-------------­
Friday, November 18, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page6 
of the cornfields in the "In terms of our goals of hav­ing, but if its going to help the about my future. I think I have -Linemen Southwest suburban town of ing a winning season, and team then I have to do it," said a great chance to accomplish 
Romeoville to become a first­going to a major January 1st or Hamilton. "I will still get my my dream, and I have become continued from page 1 team prep All-American and January 2nd bowl game, we' chance to achieve my dream, to a better person. I think it will 
I I 
I 
~ .­
Sure, they had lost before. They lost two regular season games their freshman year, three during their sophomore season. But those first two sea­sons were followed by two years and just two losses, and a No. 2 national ranking accom­panied a fifth year full of promise. 
So the two defensive lineman from the Chicago area decided to forego a shot at their NFL dreams to play one more sea­son under the Golden Dome. Both had excellent senior sea­sons and knew that one more solid campaign could help their chances of landing in the big time. Now they are mired in Notre Dame's worst season since Lou Holtz's first year in 1986. 
As the oldest members of a very inexperienced Irish squad, they should take the losses the hardest. Others have a senior season to look forward to, an­other chance ahead of them. For Oliver Gibson and Brian Hamilton, this was their fifth and final chance. 
"I knew coming back that it wouldn't be easy," said Gibson. "Looking over the whole team. I knew we wouldn't have the playmakers that we have had, and I knew it would be a fight and we would have to strug­gle." 
"It is a surprise that we have four losses," he added, "But I knew it wouldn't be easy." 
For Gibson, this fifth year was a chance for redemption. Six years ago, Gibson rose out the USA Today defensive player of the year. 
One of his last few games was broadcast nationally, just so the whole country could see who everyone was talking about. 
However, until this season his career had been marked by numerous position changes un­der three different defensive coordinators. 
After starting his senior year with five starts, including an eight-tackle performance against Purdue, he was relegat­ed to a backup role for the remaining seven games. 
This is not how Oliver Gibson imagined his senior year when he decided to come to Notre Dame as one of the most highly recruited players in the nation . Spending the last seven games of his career as a backup was not his idea of a good way to go out. 
But this season Gibson has fi­nally achieved the consistency that has always been expected of him. He has become an in­tense leader and a dominating defensive tackle. 
"If you look at it in terms of consistency, then I am defmite­ly playing my best this year," noted Gibson, "Because I have been off and on a lot (in previ­ous seasons). Like last year against Purdue I had eight tackles, then the next week against Stanford I didn't have any." 
Though Gibson's resurrection has made the team's troubles difficult to accept, he has taken it in stride. 
still can achieve those goals," insisted Gibson. "The things that have always held true have. We still have a pride about playing for Notre Dame and we still are a part of the tradition, now we just have to work on putting it back to where it usually is." 
Despite the sacrifice, the struggle, and the losses, Gibson says his improvement has made coming back worthwhile. 
''I'm definitely happy about it. I'm getting a chance to repre­sent the University again and prove myself as a player," said Gibson. "It has also given me an opportunity to play at the next level. I'm confident I will get a chance to play in the NFL, and that's all you can ask for is a chance to play." 
In contrast to Gibson's subur­ban roots, Hamilton came to Notre Dame from the streets of Chicago and the tough halls of St. Rita High. Hamilton joined Gibson as a first-team USA To­day All-American. 
However, Hamilton's fifth year could be described as the antithesis of Gibson's. He has gone from a captain and poten­tial All-American to simply get­ting in on a few plays each game. 
After Holtz and defensive coordinator Bob Davie decided to move to a quicker defense with more speed at the ends, they were forced to move Hamilton from his customary defensive end spot in to tackle. Since then he has rotated in with at least four other players. 
"It's not like I enjoy not play-


AFAYETTE 
T 0 w N H 
play in the National Football League. It will just be a harder road." 
This situation has made the four losses even harder to stomach. 
"I never dreamed this would happen. I mean, it never hap­pened in the years before I came here. I didn't even have four losses in my high school career," noted Hamilton. " But I think you need to experience these things. Everyone loves winning, and it would be great to win, but you learn from your mistakes and things that hurt you." 
This optimistic attitude has helped Hamilton cope with the adversity he has faced this year. 
Though the season has cer­tainly not unfolded as he had hoped, he feels he has benefit­ed by becoming a stronger per­son. 
"I've been able to get another degree, which I think will help me a lot, and I think I've be­come a stronger person over this season," noted Hamilton. "I have learned from everything that has happened to us and it has made me a better person. 
"Coming back didn't hurt me," he continued. "I think although I played a lot more last year I have played better this year. It will also help me because last year I didn't get much of a chance to play in any postseason bowl games, but I think I will have a better chance to play in those types of games after this season." 
''I'm definitely confident 
work out." Like Hamilton, Gibson insists he has no regrets. 
"You know that if anyone looks over their lives in the past four or five years they will find something they will regret but I have enjoyed representing this University," said Gibson. "I have learned a lot of things and had a great time with my friends and my teammates, and I have met a lot of amazing people." 
Something that Gibson and Hamilton will both be able to experience is a second final home game. The two will be honored once again before this Saturday's game with a pregame announcement. How­ever, both contend that last year's loss in the final game of the year can be partly attrib­uted to being too emotional. The spectra of a home finale coupled with a No. 1 ranking conspired to defeat them, and the fifth-year seniors are not going to let that happen again. 
"My last home game will be very special and I'm sure I'll feel something. You cant help but be emotional, but as Coach Holtz says you can't make tack­les with tears covering your eyes," said Gibson. 
"You can't sacrifice execution for emotion. Its going to be a strange feeling going through the tunnel for the last time again and announcing my name again, but we can't be thinking about it being our last game. I think the best way to represent this University and this team is to play well." 

UARE 
0 M E S 

"The finest in off-campus housing" 
· Four and five bedroom townhomes 
•Two bathrooms · Security Systems · Kitchens with dishwasher, garbage disposal, refrigerator, and range · Washer and dryer in each unit ·Gas heat · Central air conditioning · Professional management · 24-hour maintenance ·One mile from the Notre Dame Campus 
NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
232-8256 
page 7 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, November 18, 1994 
Runnin 
Tony Rice led Dee Dowis was Notre Dame to a the quarterback
By

national champi­for Air Force onship in 1988. between 1986­No other Irish Mike Norbut 1989. During his Quarterback since time as the Rice has been Falcons' signal able to run the caller, he broke
n Irish weakness turns o
option with as Air Force game much excitement and career rush­and flair. ing records.
to be an Air Force strength 
N
o one could have sus­dusting off this treasure chest tween keeping and pitching the ever. Dowis holds Air Force game and have scored 29 of offensive weapons back in ball was as clear-cut as records for yards gained in a touchdowns just by rushing the
pe~ted ~ou .Holtz to be so unagmat1ve. the first quarter. whether or not to wear a jacket game as well as a career. But football alone. And most of that In the fourth quarter of last "We didn't try the option until when it's cold outside. that was out of the wishbone. is from one play-the option. week's clash with Florida State, the fourth quarter," Holtz said. But if Powlus needs to learn That's all in the past now. Needless to say, this offense Notre Dame trailed 16-10, and "We should have tried it much how to run the option, all he The newest thing is the dou­will present quite a challenge to were on a crucial drive that earlier." has to do is show up for ble wing, a formation as hot as the Irish defense to stop. could have possibly given them But that thought may have Saturday's game. The Air Force Seattle grunge and fat-free "We have to be very disci­the lead. been getting too greedy. Too will be running a clinic at Notre chocolate cake. And with it plined," Holtz said. "When we 
-

The Irish had been running many times this year the Irish Dame Stadium. comes Beau Morgan, the latest used to run the option, we did­the ball well up the middle, but have run the option and failed. The Falcons' offense does not in a line of deceptive option n't have any problem preparing Holtz suddenly decided to ven­It has been known in the past claim to be tricky or diverse. quarterbacks to be appointed to for it. We could simulate it very ture deep into the play-calling as the play that broke oppo­Basically, they run the option, the Air Force Academy. well. But now that we don't run vault to drag out an oldie but, nents' backs, but this season, it which definitely has neither of Instead of employing all three it, it'll be a new experience for in his mind, a goodie. has only succeeded in killing these qualities. running backs behind the quar­our players." 
And so it happened that the Notre Dame drives before they But they can claim to be terback, the halfbacks in the Every position on the Irish de­much maligned Notre Dame cross the goal line. proficient, an adjective that is double wing line up outside the fense will have an assignment. option play reared its ugly head A Powlus pitch bounces past always used to define a good tackles, offering a four-receiver The defensive line must stop at the Citrus Bowl. Robert Farmer, a Powlus pitch option team. look to the defense, much like a the fullback up the middle. The 
The option has always been is dropped by Randy Kinder, a And with a slight twist to the run-and-shoot formation. linebackers will have to keep Holtz's bread and butter be­Powlus pitch sails over the formation, the Air Force's op­The option arises out of this close tabs on the quarterback. cause it has so many threats head ofEmmett Mosley . .. tion offense has become as formation when a halfback goes And the cornerbacks will have combined into one single snap And while he watched from deadly as a pit viper ready to in motion, setting up a regular to cover the pitch man. of the football. the sidelines, all Holtz could do strike. !-formation when the ball is Having the Notre Dame sec­
"The option is so scary be­was sigh and remember the "The Air Force has always snapped. ondary pulled in close to stop cause the quarterback will hurt days of Tony Rice, when the been a fine offensive team," But just because a man will the run may give the Air Force you, the fullback will hurt you, option was run with fearless Holtz said. "They no longer run be sent in motion doesn't mean the opportunity to throw the and the pitch back will hurt flamboyance. The days of Rick the wishbone. They now use a the play will go in that direc­ball, as their formation may in­you," he explained. Mirer, when it was run with double wing set." tion. A team can just as easily dicate. 
And it hurt the Seminoles, as pinpoint precision. The wishbone, a formation hand the ball off to the other By looking at a run-and-shoot Lee Becton squirted around the Or even last year with Kevin with the fullback and two half­halfback on a reverse or look all afternoon, the Irish will 
-

right side off a Ron Powlus McDougal, when it was run backs lined up in a triangle counter. never be quite sure if the pitch for 19 yards and an Irish with such craftiness that de­behind the quarterback, was There are only so many Falcons will run or pass. first down. Four plays later, fenses the likes of Michigan and the formation of old, the fad things an offense can do out of But make no mistake, there Notre Dame had temporarily Florida State were left cross­that died along with parachute this formation. But the Air will not be too much passing, tied the game at 16. eyed. pants and camouflage. Force does them so well that not even out of this formation. 
And all Holtz felt like doing Irish quarterbacks of the past The days of Dee Dowis, the any other plays are just consid­There are just too many other was kicking himself for not never had to be taught how to Falcons quarterback of the late ered extra baggage. options. · .run the option. The decision be-80s, have been recorded for-They average 315.6 yards per Literally. 
The Air Force Option Offense--Then and Now 


Friday, November 18, 1994 

The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
• JOCK STRIP 

A win over Air Force is a 
PREY·

victory for national security 

TEAM RECORD POINTS rous 
1 . Nebraska(39) 11-0-0 1527 1 2. Penn St.(23) 9-0-0 1509 2 3. Florida 8-1-0 1351 4 4. Alabama 10-0-0 1332 6 5. Miami 8-1-0 1285 5 6. Auburn 9-0-1 1240 3 7. Colorado 9-1-0 1237 7 8. Florida St. 8-1-0 1176 8 9. TexasA&M 9-0-1 1024 9 10. Colorado St. 9-1-0 927 10 .All -..._ 11 . Kansas St. 7-2-0 870 11 I~ 12.0regon 8-3-0 856 15 

r 
..-~13.USC 7-2-0 821 17 ~ 14. Virginia Tech 8-2-0 741 16 15. Michigan 7-3-0 686 19 16. Virginia 7-2-0 528 21 17. Boston College 6-2-1 477 25 18. Washington 7-3-0 434 22 19. Arizona 7-3-0 334 13 20. BYU 9-2-0 303 23 ·~, 21. Utah 8-2-0 302 12 22. Oregon St. 8-3-0 238 ... 23. Mississippj St. 7-3-0 230 20~ 24. Duke 8-2-0 204 18 MIAMI 25. N. Carolina 7-2-0 174 



CJM 

• SPORTS EXTRA STAFF EDITOR: George Dohrmann MANAGING EDTIOR: Jason Kelly ASSOCIATE EDITOR: Mike Norbut 
-
CONTRIBUTORS: Tim Sherman, Andy Cabiness GRAPHIC DESIGN: Chris Mullins 


lime ltJ call your Papal• 271 -1177
-
Papa 

'll 
16 

r-NffiiN'ine':fitt;-, r-Taie"NiiihtS"Peciai-, r--Onet'i"lMge--, 
1-14" Large I I 1-16" Extra Large I I (9:00p.m. until closing) I I a§ne Topping I 
P.brlly-Tlmday 11 :00 am -1:00 am 

I 1Topping Pizza I I Two Toppings I I 1-14" Large I I 695 I 
with 2cans of Coke I I 
Frilay &Sab.rrlay 11 :00 am -3:00 am 

I and Breadsticks s950 I I 1Topping Pizza I I 1i 14" ~rge I 
Sinlay Nlm -1:00am 

: $10~0 : : ~ : : $59~ : : $1~. : 
I -TDIJilinllslllicadl.llolraldwilllsnyotlwrcoopon..J I -Toppingsl125adl.llulraidwiiii811YotlwrCtJUPDt1. I I AlltlilionMToPP;nusllliclldtllulraldwillllllfDIIwrcoopon..J I Adtftiolla/TO(JfJinfP!IIicBir:IJ.IIulraldwillllllfDthorcoupon..J 
~-------~-------~ ~-------~------­



Friday, November 18, 1994 The Observer•WEEKEND page 15 
'Minier Bi!J.hlnin!J' slrihes cSainl !Jl(ary's 
By lAURA SMITH 
Accent Writer 
This should be an exciting weekend. The last home football game of the season is Saturday. Wouldn't it be nice to relax on Sunday and wind down with the sounds of a widely acclaimed pianist who has traveled and thrilled audiences throughout 
'The poem [T.S. Eliot's Four Quartets] is beautiful and fitting for the Sesquicentennial because of Eliot's con­cept of time and how it changes people and institutions.' 
Jeffrey Jacob 

Europe, Russia, Asia, and the United States? 
He has performed with the London Philharmonic, the Moscow Symphony, and the Brazil National Symphony, 
This weekend he is premiering his "Symphony: Winter Lightning" with the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra at Saint Mary's College. 
These credentials are those of Jeffrey Jacob, the pianist­in-residence and professor of music at Saint Mary's. 
Jacob began playing the piano at the age of five when his parents, who both played piano, encouraged him to begin taking lessons. 
He kept playing and received his undergraduate education in music at the University of Cincinnati, a master of music degree from the Julliard School, a doctor of musical arts from the Peabody Conservatory. and a performer's Certificate from the Salzburg Mozarteum. 
Jacob counts Mieczyslaw Munz, Carol Zecchi, and Leon Fleisher as his prin(:ipal teachers. 
Jacob has been described 
by the Warsaw Music Journal 
as "unquestionably, one of 
the great living performers of 
20th Century Music". 
The Washington Post reported that Jacob is "a pianist of enormous sensitivi­ty and intelligence". Jacob has established an interna­tional reputation as an inter­preter of standard repertoire and contemporary music. 

Jacob has performed solo 
recitals in Berlin, Cologne, 
Munich, Prague, Warsaw, 
Moscow, Madrid, Milan, 
Dublin, Rio de Janiero, 
Buenos Aires, Toronto, Hong 
Kong, Beijing, Seoul, Sydney, 
and in London's Wigmore 
Hall and New York's 
Carnegie Hall and Aice Tulley 
Hall. 
Jacob's Compositions have 
been performed and record­
ed by the St. Petersburg 
Philharmonic, the Moscow Symphony, and the Boston Symphony Chamber Players. In May of this year, his Piano Concerto was premiered at the St. Petersburg International Music Festival. 
Jacob says his favorite places to travel are London and St. Petersburg, Russia. 
"London probably has more cultural opportunities than anywhere else and over 2000 years of history" Jacob said. According to Jacob, "St. Petersburg is filled with extraordinary people. They are warm, hospitable, and passionate about the arts". 
This is the same man who adopted two infant girls from Paraguay. One five years ago and the other two years ago. Jacob says "adopting the 
·­
wonderful little girls is the only really important thing I've done". 

Becoming a parent has in­spired and changed Jacob's work. "My own work is very personal. It has changed me to become a parent and my The Observer/Cyhtia Exconde work has changed" said Jeffrey Jacob rehearses in his office at S~int Mary's. Jacob is a Jacob. pianist-in-residence and professor of mus1c at the college. 
"Symphony: Winter 

one of the poem's images. Jacob will perform the pre­Lightning", a piece for speak­miere of his composition with er, piano, and orchestra was Jacob says, "The poem is the Indianapolis Symphony
commissioned by Saint 

beautiful and fitting for the Orchestra. The Orchestra is Mary's College for the Sesquicentennial because of one of the nation's few 52­College's Sesquicentennial. It 
Eliot's concept of time and week orchestras. The
is the closing cultural event how it changes people and Orchestra is under the artis­of the Sesquicentennial year institutions". Jacob also per­tic direction of Haymon

and will feature Jacob as 

ceives music as a powerful Leppard.
piano soloist. 

medium in art to express It is internationally
Saint Mary's professor and 

time. acclaimed, performs nearlyreligious studies department Jacob's composition will be 200 concerts each year andchair Keith Egan will join the has a total audience in excess of 500,000. 
The Orchestra has toured cities throughout the United States. A successful 1993 tour of five European Countries brought the Orchestra rave review. The Orchestra records for Koss Classics. 
According to Patti Valentine, Saint Mary's College Director of Public
ltil£alnujlifZiave lieefzts an·aGslraclion 
Relations, this event has been planned for a couple of years. 
!J?emaining a perpefuafpassibilily 

She encourages any student to attend. 
Only in a worldofspec(Jfafion. 

"We encourage students to hear someone of the caliber
Whafmighfliave been andwlial lias been 
of Jeffrey Jacob and the Indianapolis Symphony
Yiunf fo one endwhichis alwa_yspresen/. .. Orchestra" said Valentine. "We want students to have
?ooifalls echo rn !lie memory fun and to be exposed to some of the best talent in the 
7Jown /he passage wlirc/i we didnolla.ke country" she said. Jacob's next project is
<Joa,a.rtfs !lie door weneiJer opened recording two Compact Discs, one for piano and orchestra9nfo 1/ie rose~garden. and one for solo piano. "At some point, I'd like to take a vacation," said Jacob. 
-!Jrom tliefirs! of7.c5. ohof's Your The world premiere of Jacob's "Symphony: Winter 
2uarlels, u!JJurnf %rlon" Lightning" will be Sunday, November 20, at 2:30 p.m. in 0' Laughlin auditorium. interspersed with readings Tickets may be purchased at

performance as the piece's from T.S. Eliot's "Four the saint Mary's box office,

speaker. In creating his 

Quartets" read and chosen by located in 0' Laughlin.
piece, Jacob was inspired by Egan. The program will also Tickets are $12 for adults,T.S. Eliot's concept of time in include Brahms' Academic $10 for Senior Citizens, $6

his renowned poem "Four 

Festival Overture, Op. 80 and for Saint Mary's/Notre Dame
Quartets" and derived the 

his Symphony No. 1 in C faculty, staff, and administra­title "Winter Lightning" from 
minor, Op. 68. tors, and $5 for students. 

-

......
--~------------------------------~~----~---~----~----­
page 16 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, November 18, 1994 
-Crime and punishment aren't the name ofthe game 
Yes, Virginia, bad things 
shall die/Take him and cut haven't been told if anybody happen to good people, as him out in little stars,/And is in it, not even Judas, or you can tell every evening he will make the face of Adolph Hitler, though per­
Father Robert Griffin 
on the six o'clock news. heaven so fine/That all the haps we should be con­Some nights, the catalogue world will be in love with cerned for him and Stalin. of horrors is so endless, you Bellers lo a Bonefj 9od night." (In the movie ver­The death of Jesus, which need a beer or two to give sion, I think this line was left was such a miscarriage of you Dutch courage, trusting out.) justice, was for the redemp­that malt does more than Robert Kennedy used it in tion of sinners; Jesus died to Milton can to justify God's year-old in his cups, taking God's justice and man's jus­a memorial to his brother reconcile us all to God. ways to man. Allegedly, God the wheel of a car to drive tice are light-worlds apart. Jack at the 1964 Democratic If it helps to know, there 
cannot be the perpetrator of recklessly on a stormy Crime and punishment is not convention. Later that does seem to be a law of senseless violence; but if night? God, giving us free the name of the game God night, after hearing Bobby, I compensation orerating on He's omnipotent, why does will, allows us to suffer the plays. Reconciliation and went out to search the night the human leve that tends 
He not temper the wind to consequences of playing redemption are the opera­sky, to see if I could discover to guarantee that we shall 
the shorn lamb? Why does Russian roulette. William tive words in the theology of a brightness to the heavens reap what we sow, so hope­Sloane Coffin recognized the Cross, which was itself that I could attribute to fully the way of the trans­that the Heavenly Father an affair of innocence President Kennedy lighting gressor will not prosper. 
might share his heartbreak betrayed and tortured. up the heavens. There But if the way of the trans­'Crime and punish-as an earthly father grieving I'm getting to be an old wasn't, of course; so much gressor never seemed to 
ment is not the over a lad who may have man who could be at the for metaphors. Christmas is prosper, the Christian call to name of the game been half in love with ease­end of his tether, if I can memorable for the birth of a Imitate Christ in His uncon­
ful death. believe what the life-signs star, but not the death of a ditional acceptance of the
God plays. 

"After such knowledge, are telling me. I'm sur­president. transgressor wouldn't be so 
Reconciliation and what forgiveness?" asks prised by the doubts that I In my dotage, I need all difficult. Christianity is not-redemption are the Eliot. "Think now/ History am facing at this hour of a vindictive religion; it has many cunning passages, sunset and evening star. At doesn't indulge us when we
operative words in the 

contrived corridors/ And 69, one does not expect to demand a pound of flesh. theology of the Cross, issues. deceives with whis­turn into a rebel without a ' 8 ut if we can't for-It's not a matter of forgiving which was itself an pering ambitions,/ Guides us cause: unhappy, restless, give one another, serial killers who are also affair of innocence by vanities." One remem­neither peaceful nor con­how can we bring our­entitled to the mercy of God. 
bers the Persian Gulf War tented, and more than a lit­But if we can't forgive one
betrayed and tortured.' selves to forgive God, 
led by a Commanded-in­tle afraid. Is there a God, another, how can we bring 
Chief inspired to lead his and, as Woody Allen wants if the need arises?' ourselves to forgive God, if nation into kicking ass, as a to know, will He change a the need arises? 
He not stretch out a hand to therapy for shaking off the twenty? Sometimes, the need does 
save the athletes from dying Vietnam syndrome. If there is a God, the ques­arise, or seems to, and that 
young? The Earth is full of crimes tion now is not what I can the Christian mythologx. is when our religious con­
Some sorrows are so great for which there are no pun­do for Him, but what He can This is why Christmas wtll version may begin. 
that as Christians, we can ishments, nor there never do for me. I've been an be so endearing this year. I As an old timer, I want only conclude that God must could be. How can you pun­ordained servant of the don't want to shrug off any­young Catholics to be aware weep too. William Sloane ish the carelessness in a Church for 40 years; for me, thing, especially if it's the that God is love. I could not 
Coffin was told by his friends hospital's housekeeping the grace that IS everywhere story of Amahl and the Night begin to explain to you what when his son died in a car which ends with a hemophil­is the Church's grace, which Visitors. this means; and if I tried, I crash, "It was the will of iac child contracting the HIV my soul needs now as its Christianity, to be comfort­undoubtedly would miss the 
God, Bill." virus. Literature 1s full of balm in Gilead. ing, is a love story. It point. Whenever I miss the "Like hell it was," Sloane God-accusing novels like "Romeo and Juliet" was shouldn't be regarded as a point, I don't mind your Coffin replied. "When Jim "Moby Dick." Yet our great shown on a cable station the religion of crime and pun­telling me so. In my old age, died, God was the first to Christian writers nave other night. I waited in vain ishment. As Graham Green I need the help of young 
weep." Why wouldn't God argued with eloquence that to hear Juliet say "When he has said: We've been told Catholics in saving my soul. weep when He sees a 24-that there's a hell, but we 
CLOSED SECTIONS AS OF  ENGL  101  01  3595  MUS  226  01  1729  COURSES ADDED  
7:00P.M. 11/17/94  ENGL  301  01  0854  MUS  229  01  3853  ANTH 496-02  #4446  Dir. Readings: SocioCultural Anthroplogy; var. cr. hrs.; Patrick Gaffney;  
ENGL  301  02  1210  PHIL  245  01  2734  Permission Required  
ACCf  473  01  1521  ENGL  3198 01  2970  PHIL  256  01  3870  ANTH 496-03  #4447  Dir. Readings:  SocioCultural Anthropology: var. cr. hrs.; Martin Murphy;  
ACCf  475  01  2639  ENGL  325  01  2068  PHIL  261  01  0490  Permission Required  
ACCT  479  01  2531  ENGL  340A 01  3604  PHIL  261  02  0629  ARST 485S-01  #4442  Studio Photography; TH 01: 15-04:00; 3 cr. hrs; Richard Gray; prerequisite is  
AC'CT  480  02  2572  ENGL  390  01  3607  PHIL  522  01  3888  ARST 285S, 366S or 375S  
ACCT  485  01  1030  ENGL  393C  01  3609  PSY  405  01  1631  COAJ 212-01  #4435  Second Year Japanese II; MTWHF 11:15-12:05; 5 cr. hrs.; YukoNakahama  
AfAM  329  01  2840  ENGL  416C  01  3618  PSY  442  01  3906  COAJ 312-01  #4436  Third Year Japanese II; MWF 01: 15-02:05; 3 cr. hrs.; Yuko Nakahama; pre- 
AFAM  352  01  3429  ENGL  440  01  3622  PSY  463  01  4297  requisite is COAJ 331  
AFAM  423  01  3430  ENGL  451A 01  3623  PSY  487A 01  3910  COCG 515-01  #4434  Greek Historians; TH 04: 15-05:30; 3 cr. hrs.; David Ladouceur; cross-listed  
AFAM  438  01  3431  ENGL  480  01  3628  PSY  488A 01  3912  with coca 455-01  
AFAM  454  01  2729  ENGL  491  01  3630  RLST  351  56  9556  COSA 402-01  #4451  Grammatical Analysis of Genre; W 03:35-05:00; 3 cr. hrs; Joseph A mar  
1,;  541  01  0959  ENGL  491A 01  3631  RU  496  01  3657  ECON 380-01  #4439  Development Economics; TH 11:00-12:15: 3 cr. hrs.; Peter Skott  
>;T  ~:!IE  01  3436  ENGL  492C  01  3632  soc  346  01  2736  ECON 445-01  #4440  Economics of Industrial Organization; TH 02:45-04:00; 3 cr. hrs.; Anaindya Sen  
o\.'-'1~>1  '·l7H 01  2726  ENGL  493  01  3634  soc  370  01  1063  ENGL 699-39  #4438  Research and Dissertation; variable credit hours; James Robinson  
A:\IST  360  OJ  3439  ENGL  496E  01  3635  soc  374  01  2093  GSC 346-01  #4448  ·Practicum; 3 credit hours; Marie Kramb; Permission Required  
AMST  407E  01  3441  FS  !BOA 01  3646  soc  438  01  3954  MUS 401-01  #4445  String Performance Techniques; F 01:00-02:30;1 cr. hr.; K. Buranskas, C.  
AMST  458E  01  2966  FS  180A 03  3648  THEO  252  01  1321  Plummer, C. Rutledge; cross-listed with MUS 501-01  
AMST  495E  01  3004  FS  180A 04  3649  THEO  262  01  4186  MUS 499-01  #4441  Undergraduate Thesis; variable credit hours; Ethan Haimo  
ARCH  444  03  2616  FS  180A 06  3651  THEO  265  0 I  0773  PHIL 295-01  #4437  Seminar Justice-Honors; TH 02:45-04:00; 3 cr. hrs.; Permission Required;  
ARCH  566 ·01  3155  GEOS  142L  03  2219  THEO  290  01  2013  Honors students only  
ARCH  582  01  3157  GOVT  447  01  3704  THEO  3758  01  4329  soc 214-01  #4450  Minorities in America; TH 04: 15-05:30; 3 cr. hrs.; Min Liu  
ARCH  584  01  3158  GOVT  492C  01  1235  THEO  429  01  4194  STY 456-01  #4444  Tradition & Moderization in China & Japan; MWF II: 15-12:05; 3 cr. hrs.; Peter  
AR!  585  01  159  GOVT  492K 01  3713  THEO  437  01  -4196  Moody; Permission Required; cross-listed with GOVT 492N-OI  
AR:-..  134S  01  0019  GOVT  678  01  3734  THEO  460  01  4197  THEO 582-02  #4449  Service:  Secular and Christian; W 02:20-03:35: 2 cr. hrs.; Regina Coli; M.Div  
AR.>T  232S  01  0280  HIST  lilT 03  0901  THTR  135  58  9758  students only  
ARST  242S  01  1952  HIST  112T 03  0690  THTR  230  60  9760  CHANGES  
ARST  246S  01  0974  HIST  240  01  4361  THTR  276  64  9764  AME  651-01#3183  Change day/time to: TH II:00-12:15 and change prerequisite to: AME 599  
ARST  289S  01  3486  HIST  350  01  3764  THTR  378  72  9772  AME  657-01#3184  Change day/time to: TH 02:45-04:00  
ARST  ~9:?S  01  0526  HIST  413A 01  3768  ARST  210S-03  #3485  Add restriction:  Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all  
ARST  .  .,  01  3487  HIST  422A 01  4240  BIOS  342L-Ol  #1877  Change to:  "Permission Required" and remove restriction of Majors only through  
BA  487  01  4011  HIST  454  0 I  2728  3rd period; College of Science only through 1219.  
B.·•  490  02  "'169  HIST  454A 01  2727  CLASSES THAT WILL  BIOS  407L-02  #2325  Changedayto:  HOI:IS-04:15  
BA  490  03  U388  HIST  468A 01  3783  REOPEN AT 7:00P.M.  CHEM  243-01#2415  Change time to:  MWF 11: I 5-12:05  
BA  490  04  1888  HIST  485A 01  3791  11118/94  COCG  325-01#3526  Change time to:  MWF II: 15-12:05  
BA  490  05  0519  LAW  592A 01  1021  COTH  221-01#2341  Remove restrictions and changed to "Permission Required"  
BIOS  304L  01  1406  LAW  615C  01  1328  ACCT  480  02  2572  COTH  421-01#3552  Remove restrictions and changes to "Permission Required"  
BIOS  304L  02  2040  LAW  695  01  0807  ARST  289S  0 I  3486  ECON  125-01#2319  Change time to:  TH 01:15-02:30  
CE·  470  01  2032  LAW  695  02  1208  BIOS  304L  02  2040  ECON  421-01#3590  Add pre-requisite:  ECON 302  
CHEG  448  01  1881  LAW  695  03  0776  coer  460  o1  3543  ECON  663-01#4225  Change time to:  MW 03:50-05:05  
CHEM  120L  03  2702  LAW  695  04  0363  ENGL  3198  01  2970  FIN  231 all sections  Change restriction to:  "BA ~only through 3rd period; then open to all"  
C ICT  306  01  3539  LAW  695  05  1773  ENGL  416C  01  3618  GOVT  640-01#3728  Change time to:  W 04: 15-06:45  
coer  307  01  3540  LAW  695  06  0025  HIST  422A 01  4240  liPS  506-01#1206  Change day to:  F 07:00-10:00 p.m.  
coer  426  01  3542  LAW  695B  01  2612  LAW  615C  01  1328  liPS  640-0 I #400 I  Change time to:  W 04: 15-06:45  
coer  460  01  3543  LAW  695C  01  2191  LAW  6958  01  2612  MATH  120-01#1327  Add prerequisite:  MATH 106, 119 or 125  
COMM  103  07  9707  MATH  103  01  1820  MUS  225  01  1022  MATH  362-01#2411  Change time to:  MWF 03:25-04: 15  
COMM  210  16  971·  ME  348  01  1053  MUS  229  01  3853  
COTH  45.  11  3553  ME  445  01  1382  PHIL  261  02  0629  COURSES CANCELLED  
COTH  453  01  3554  Ml  595  01  3848  PSY  463  01  4297  ARST  476S-Ol  #3489  GOVT  4928-01  #3707  
ECON  312  01  3587  MUS  220  01  1575  soc  346  01  2736  COAJ  222-01  #4337  EE  464-01  #2898  GSC  412C-01  #3744  
ECON  447  01  3591  MUS  222  01  0800  THTR  378  72  9772  COAJ  332-01  #3515  ENGL  412C-Ol  #3614  PHIL  533-01  #3889  
ECON  487  0 I  1438  MUS  225  01  1022  COSA  401-01  #3546  ENGL  461Z-Ol  #3625  soc  276-01  #3948  

Friday, November 18, 1994 
•NBA 
Webber traded to Washington, Gugliotta goes to Golden State 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press 
OAKlAND, Calif. 

Chris We.bber, whose differences with Golden State coach Don Nelson escalated during a contract dispute, was traded to the Washington Bullets on Thursday, less than a day after re­signing with the Warriors. 
In exchange for the power forward who was last season's NBA rookie of the year, the Warriors received small forward Tom Gugliotta and the Bullets' lirst-round draft picks in 1996, 1998 and 2000. 
The move came after the Bullets ear­liPr in the day had signed first-round draft pick Juwan Howard, who as a "Fab Five" teammate of Webber's led Michigan to the NCAA championship game in 1992 and 1993. 
And it came some 20 hours after the Warriors re-signed Webber, who exer­cised his option to terminate a 15-year, $74 million contract in the offseason and became a restricted free agent in June. The Warriors had to sign Webber to trade him. 
Webber said he was unhappy playing for Nelson, and the hard feelings inten­sified during the contract stalemate when Nelson said he'd quit if that would help bring Webber back to the team. 
That remark angered Webber, who felt it was an attempt to turn public opinion against him. 
"I don't know what I have done in the past that would make Chris so angry that he wouldn't want to play for me. I never thought it was as serious as it turned out to be," said a somber Nelson. "I don't think I made any major mistakes in handling Chris, but I guess I did." 
The 6-10 forward averaged 17.5 points and 9.1 rebounds and shot 55 percent from the field last season. Despite Webber's absence this season, the Warriors won five of their first six games. 
New Warriors owner Chris Cohan, 
who signed Webber to a one-year con­
tract Wednesday night with the under­
standing he would be traded, said 
there were irreconcilable differences between Webber and Nelson. 
"It was not a money issue. He want­ed to be happy, and he wasn't going to be happy with the Warriors. It was mostly due to Don," said Cohan, who met alone with Webber 10 days ago. "He did relate to me that last year really was one of the most miserable years of his life." 
Cohan, who sat next to Nelson dur­ing a Warriors news conference that seemed more like a divorce hearing than an announcement of a basketball trade, said he had little choice but to get rid of Webber. 
Cohan, who bought the Warriors in early October, said Webber and his agents made it clear he could no longer play for Nelson. 
"I was faced with limited options," Cohan said. "I made a commitment to Don and he's going to be the coach, and I really can't tolerate a situation that's going to threaten the coach's job." 
Gugliotta, also 6-foot-10, has aver­aged 15.8 points and 9.5 rebounds since joining the Bullets as their top draft pick in 1992. As the leader of the rebuilding Bullets, he was clearly dis­appointed at being dealt away. 

He learned of the trade minutes before boarding the team bus to ride to the Meadowlands, where Washington was to play New Jersey, and left the building to return to the Washington area. 
"Obviously, it's unsettling to uproot yourself from familiar situations and surroundings," Gugliotta said before the game. "The Bullets are a good organization and they are up and com­ing with the talent that's here. Unfortunately, my contribution is over." 
"It's devastating," teammate Calbert Cheaney said. "Tom's a great friend, a great guy, a great ballplayer. Losing him is a blow to us, but we're getting excellent guys in return." 
Webber gives the Bullets size and a 
dominating presence on the front line. 
He is expected to play both power for­
ward and center, as he did for Golden 
State. 
-
-. 

Metcalf ignites Cleveland 
By DOUG TUCKER in last week's 14-13loss to San Diego. 
Associated Press "We dropped one punt ... we ran into their guy on one," Chiefs coach Marty KANSAS CITY, Mo. Schottenheimer said. "This could be a 
To Cleveland's Eric Metcalf, studying game where field position is very impor­the Kansas City Chiefs is like peering into tant." a mirror. The Chiefs (6-4) have scored only one 
"It looks like we're almost the same touchdown in each of their last two out­
team, the same style of team," said the ings while falling two games behind the Browns running back and punt returner Chargers in the AFC West. deluxe. "A good defense and an offense The Browns (8-2) used backup quarter­that's not really doing the things they back Mark Rypien their last two games, 
need to do." victories over New England and Which means? Philadelphia, to maintain a one-game "That's where kick returns can make lead over Pittsburgh in the AFC Central. 
the difference." The Browns, who aren't saying if Which is? Rypien or Vinny Testaverde will start Possibly bad news for the Chiefs, who Sunday, haven't scored a touchdown in 
don't have a Metcalf and who did make their last three visits to Arrowhead some deplorable special teams mistakes Stadium -two losses and a win. 
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2  
cents per character per day, including all spaces.  
Need 1 Air Force stu. tick. Call  UPSTAIRS APT., 3 LG. BR. ,  ********** PLEASE HELP!******... ####### I NEED ONE AIR FORCE GA OR  - 
Shannon 291-6288 NOTICES  KITCHEN, BATHROOM. ALL UTIL­ITIES INCLUDED. PRIVATE  I NEED 2 AIR FORCE TICKETS Wanted: Air Force G.A's STUDENT TICKETI CALL ERIC CALL CHRISSY x3098 -THANKS call Whitney @ 288-2589 271-8750.  
**********************"'"'*"*******•••••  PARKING & ENTRANCE, 4-5-6  ***********************"'*************• #######  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS I NEED A RIDE TO MIDWAY APT  STUDENTS OK. $500/MO. + $500  FOR SALE-2 GA'S & HOTEL AM.  
10-6m-sat pandora's books 11/23 for 5:15 flight -can you help?  DEPOSIT. CALL DOUG MILLIKEN  NEED 2 AF GA's. Chris x3407 For Sale 2 AF GA's It's not too latel AT SMC INN-CALL 273-0569  
NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat "*PLEASE CALL BRIAN x1058"*  288-7319 ANYTIME, 1517 1/2  Leon @ 3265  
233-2342 cool stuff cool store  LWW, NEXT DOOR TO VITO'S  HELPI Need USC ticket  
Need an used 35:70 AF lens  BARBER SHOP.  I Need 1 Air Force GAl FOR SALE A.F student ticket Tom 4-1786  
The CLIENT Minolta Maxxum preferred  Call Liz at x4541 Call Olga 634-4575 .................................... 
8/10:30 Friday/Saturday Call1-8245 Cushing Auditorium  FOR SALE  **•••••••••••••* •••.••••••••••••• ***** Need 2 AF tix for my brothers. Call •••1 student lick. for sale•••call  
by SUB SAAB TO SEATILE.  Seth@ x2174 634/4475 NEED  
Need driver of car any1ime. Call  AIR FORCE GA'S.  
234-0849.  EA HOCKEY for IBM  I need 1 Air Force GA CALL JOE AT 634-2712................••................• 
Christmas cash? We buy used Air  Mike 4-3326 I NEED 2 TICKETS TO THE .................................... 
Jordans 85-91 editions and late FOR RENT 70's & early 80's NIKE running  1994 players with trades, etc ... almost brand new, has all books  AIR FORCE GAME-Need 2 Air Force GA's call Brian Call Matt@ 277-3641  
shoes, pay up to $200! 1-800-873­3538 ext. 3  and the registration form. best offer; call Tom at 4-1712  X3467 PERSONAL2 Air Force GA's for Sale 235-3394  

WANTED: LAW/MBA/GRAD STUDENT TO SHARE

ILOST & FOUND I FURNISHED APT FOR SPRING 
FOR SALE: 1978 OLDS 98 RUNS VERY WELL. 
For Sale­
2 AF Stud Tix. 
Call Cathlynn at 284-4351. 
I need Air Force GA's and Stud Tix. Please call Greg @ 1620 TALBOTS' arrived in MICHIANAI 

SEMESTER. CALL CHRIS @ 273-9083 NE of UP Mall on Cleveland Ad found-<>utside of Hesburgh about CALL 273-6418 FOR MORE INFO. NEED 2 A.F. GA'S-CALL Joe $$$$Help. I need Air Force Tickets. Holiday Sweater Event this FRI and a week ago, a woman's tennis @X2765 Please call Gina at 277-0740.$$$ SAT 
bracelet. call 634-3918. PITISBURGHERS-I have 1 round-Looking for a male I female room-trip ticket on NO club of Pgh. I need 3 AF GA's Need Air Force tix HELP! I need a ride-DC to mate at Castle Point. Thanksgiving bus. Call Kurt 4-1005 -Bill at 272-2376 call Chris x3767 NO Sun, Nov 27-will drive, help 
Lost: Black mountain bike-broken $ 280/mo + all utilities, with cable w/ $ call Laura 44669 front reflector, letters "Silver Ridge" TV, until may of '95 2 TOGETHER STUDENT TICKETS Need 2 Air Force GAs on the side. Stolen on Thurs. out-call 272-1663 '85 Toyota Corolla, 4dr, 5-speed, FOR AF GAME: $30. call Pat x2213 side of South Dining Hall after din-A/C, Am/FM, 89k miles, many new 289-9518, NATHAN NEED ride to PHI LA. for Thxgvn. ner. Return to Stanford-no ques-parts. $2,200. Call Susan at 631-2 A.F. GAs 4 sale x2264 Please call CHRIS, 273-6488 lions asked 4-2087 Zepfest House '95-96. Free maid 7505. $$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
serv., sand V-ball ct.,6-bedrm. yo baby yo baby yo, Iockey here, i Driving to NJ for Thanksgiving? I 273-0482 234-3831 need 3 NO USC tixllll NEED 4 GA TIX FOR AF. need a ride. Will help w/expenses. 
WANTED TICKETS 

i am a finance major & i am willing CALL BARB AT 257-2800 (WORK) Elaine x2328 TURTLE CREEK to make a deal. call matt at X3830 UNTIL4 PM.; 4 person townhouse ps, party in 3rd floor zahm six-man 271-9565 (HOME) 
PERCUSSIONISTS! avail nowl I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. friday, AFTER6 PM. Aye Tony, you really are a Spicey A Local Folk Duo Is looking for a Mike x3574 272-6551 just ask for boko. later Italian. Jamie, you need a haircut 
creative person willing to play all Katie needs 1 Air Force GA for a ya hippi. George when is Arbor types of percussion. Call Dave Moving OC? Looking for 2-5 AF, SO. CAL GA'S FOR SALE. For sale grad stu tix AF game, good wannabe Domer from California Day? Ned, your hair is red!? 258-4345. women for a house.X4853 Angela 288-1186. price, call237-0072 Call her at 4-4045 
------------..... -.. ----.... -.... -... -...... --.......... -.................................... --·· •• -...... _--------... --•••• -----------·• ... -................. ----..... -.... --= .. -..... -----... --.. -....... . 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, November 18, 1994 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALl

-
Alabama's Barker is Wolverines worry Cooper 
By RUSTY MILLER he wanted to win so Cooper and even a 13-13 tie two years
just about winning 

Associated Press would be fired. ago. There have been lopsided 
By RWK. WARNER 
A' J Press 
For years. Jay Barker lost ev­ery arm wrestling ma•··h with his father. When he was 16, Barker finally won. 
"lie relt~brated like it was the World Serie" or Super Bowl," Jerome Barker recalled. "Jay was always a very competitive, strong-willed child. We played a lot of different games, and he did everything he could to beat me." 
That kind of drive and de­termination has made Barker the most successful quarter­back in Alabama history. 
lie's won more games than Jon Namath and Ken Stabler, thrown for more yards tltan Bart Starr and Scott Hunter. completed more passes than Hichard Todd and Jeff Hutledge. 
In faet. his 33-1-1 record as a starter is better than any of his celebrated predecessors, he recently broke the school's ca­reer record for passing yardage and hL is on the verge of becoming the Crimson Tide's all-time leader in completions and attempts. 
"Just to be mentioned with all those gre-~ Alaba~""'a quarterbacks is an honor,'" .,aid Barker, who has 11 touchdown passes and orly two intercep­tion~ this ~~-~on. "They're all lew·~tJs here. Sometimes, it's hara to believe I'm br~aking their records." 
But records aren't what moti­vates Barker. All he cares about is winning-even during IJractice sprints. 
"Jay Barker never wants to lose a race," coach Gene Stallings said. "It doesn't make a difference who he's running against, he wants to finish first. He's just got ulat kind of 1Ual­ity." 
Another one of Barker's traits is deflecting attention from himself and giving the credit to his teammates. In an era of brash, trash-talking athletes. the soft-spoken, deeply reli­gious Barker is almost ego free. 
"I always told him, 'Never tell somebody you're good. If you're good, they'll know it,"' his father said. 
That subdued style -along with Alabama's conservative, run-oriented offense -may explain why Barker hasn't got­ten the attention or accolades given to other players with far fewer accomplishments. The 6­foot-4, 215-pound senior is rarely mentioned as a Heisman Trophy contender or All­America candidate, and has never even made an All­Southeastern Conference team. 
Although he's the nation's fourth-rated passer, Barker hasn't been the most publicized quarterback in his own league this season. Georgia's Eric Zeier, Tennessee's Peyton Manning and Florida's Terry Dean and Danny Wuerffel have all generated more headlines, but that doesn't bother Barker. 
''I'm not really into awards or individual stats," he said. "What I'm interested in is win­ning games and national cham­pionships." 
Barker already has won one national title, leading the Tide to a 13-0 record in 1992. If fourth-ranked Alabama (10-0) .Jeats No. 6 Auburn on Saturday and goes 13-0 again, Barker could become the first quarterback to guide the Tide to two national championships. 
"lie reminds me of Pat Trammell, who was Bear Bryant's first quarterback at Alabama," Stabler said. "He's not the best athlete on the field, not the best thrower, not the best runner. All he does is win." 
With Barker at the controls, Alabama has rallied to win five games in the fourth quarter this year. Last week, the Tide trailed Mississippi State by 10 points with eight minutes left. Unfazed, Barker threw his third TO pass of the game and directed a 10-play, 66-yard scoring drive in the closing minutes to give Alabama a 29­25 victory. 
"He's not a very vocal leader," center John Causey said. "He'll just come in the huddle and say, 'This is what we need to do, now let's do it."' 
"As a quarterback, you've got to keep your poise," Barker said. "When you're calm, it rubs off on your teammates and gives them confidence. If the quarterback panics, then everybody gets nervous." 
Alabama's button-down of­fense doesn't allow a quarter­back to pile up huge passing numbers. When Barker has been allowed to air it out, how­ever, he has been very effec­tive. In the four games in which has thrown at least 30 passes during his career, Barker has averaged 325 yards. 
"When he was 16, he threw the ball 7 4 yards in the air at a football camp," his father said. "Terry Bowden said he had the strongest arm he'd ever seen." 

10% offany purchase with this coupon. 
FmihBakooCookies 
HELP Wanted

-
All Shifts, Flexible Hours Apply in person M-F 11:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 

COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Former Ohio State coach Woody Hayes never liked to utter the word Michigan. Current Ohio State coach John Cooper is getting to be the same way. 
In close to seven full years as the head coach of the Buckeyes, he has won (53-25­4), graduated his players and kept the team free from the taint of NCAA probation that has rocked the OSU basketball program. 
But any time Cooper hears the word Michigan -as he has this week leading up to Saturday's bash at Ohio Stadium -he almost shudders. 
This week he blew up several times when asked about the ri­valry, his record in the rivalry and Michigan co-captain Walter Smith's comment that 
Cooper has declined to an­swer any questions about any­thing other than the X's and O's of the game. 
Winless with one tie in six starts against the Wolverines, is this the year that Cooper fi­nally pulls the maize and blue monkey off his back? 
"In May, coaches worry about graduation rates," said Michigan coach Gary Moeller, who had the rivalry burned into his psyche as an Ohio State captain in 1962. "In February, we worry about recruiting. But winning and losing is what we're graded on." 
So far, at least in terms of the annual pressure cooker of the Michigan game, Cooper has re­ceived a failing grade. 
There have been close calls -34-31 in his first year, a last­second 16-13 setback in 1990 defeats -by 28 points in 1991 and 28 again last year· when Ohio State was unbeaten and ranked fifth in the country. 
There have been no victories. Cooper has lost more games to Michigan without a victory than any coach in Ohio State historv. The last time the Buckey~s went six years without beating Michigan was 1951 -and it took four coaches to do that. 
Cooper's predecessors, Hayes and Earle Bruee, each had win­ning records against the Wolverines. Hayes, who helped mold the rivalry in his show­downs with former pupil Bo Sehembechler in the 1960s and '70s, was 17-10-1. Bruce was 5-4. 
There ·already has been spec­ulation in newspapers and on radio call-in shows that if Cooper loses, he's gone. 


WELCOME BACK rro CAMPUS 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
and girls a healthier, brighter future. 
Available now Campus wide for $10. Pick it up in the bookstore and various· campus concession stands. 

------~~~-------·~~--~--------~---~-~­
Friday, November 18, 1994 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
DICK VITALE WILL BE HERE! Saturday, November 19th • 9:30-11:30 a.m. 
Autographing his latest Book 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore . '' on t.he campus '' Hours: Friday, Nov. 18: 9:00-7:00 • Saturday, Nov. 19: 8:00-7:00 
; 
-
~ 
...... 
..... 
'­

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 18, 1994 
-
• CROSS COUNTRY 

Harriers head to NCAA championships 
By KATE CRISHAM Spom Writer 
You can't accuse Joe Piane of not keeping up with the times. 
In the wake of last week's Republican elections sweeps, the Jtre Darn men's cross country coarh l:as decided to adopt a similar strategy for the NCAA championships on Monday-run conservatively. 
"The first mile of this course is downhill and it's gonna be fast," said Pi:-"The first mile can really crank and we don't want to get caught up in that." 
"We've got to be cautious and run smart," he said. 
Senior John Cowan agreed that rur.,ing an intelligent, con­servat; •· race will be the key to Notre Dame's success. 
"At the start, everybody gets real excited because it's thP, na­tional championships, . they forget that it's still a 10,000 meter course," he said. "Whenever we've run conser­vatively in the past, it has al­ways worked for us." 
• 
sa· 1t Mary's Track Practice will r~ held on Monday. Novemuer 28, 3:30 
pm at Angela Athletic Facility. Physical forms must be completed to partic­ipate. 
lnterhaU team three point contest-The contest will be held on Monday, November 21 at 7:30 p.m. in the JACC. There will be men's and women's divisions with seven memhers per team. All team members must be from the same hall. Winning teams are to choose one team member J face MCC pre-season player of the year Beth Morgan at half­time of the men's IU vs. ND basketball game. Rosters must b" given to Rer~ports by Thursday, November 17. A captain's meeting will be held on the 17th at 7:00p.m. For more info. calll-6100. 


Have something ..o say? Use 
Observer 
Classifieds. 
'--------------------~ 

Youth 
In Asia 
Tokyo  $845*  
Taipei  $839*  
Seoul  $819*  
Hong Kong  $849*  
Bangkok  $935*  

Kathmandu $1599* 
Council Travel 
1153 H. Dearborn Chicago, IL 60610 
{312) 951-0585 
Call for a FREE Student Travels magazine! 
"We're going to run as a group, because when we run as a group we run better," he said. "You gain strength when you see three other Notre Dame jerseys next to you." 
Running in high pressure sit­uations such as the national championships are nothing new to the Irish. Indeed, Piane has guided Notre Dame to five top 10 finishes in the last seven seasons. Piane believes that Notre Dame's long and storied history at the national champi­onships will work in his team's favor. 
"Sure the experience will help," he said. "It's a trite analogy, but the first time you went to the big dance you were in awe. The second time you're not all that impressed." 
"I think the fact that we've been here before will help us concentrate on the job we have to do rather than all the excite­ment going on," he said. 
It was predicted in the pre­>eason that Notre Dame would be greatly hurt by the gradua­tion loss of four-time All­American Mike McWilliams. 

The Irish suffered several early-season losses before hit­ting their stride in the later part of the season to capture the Notre Dame Invitational and the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championships. 
Ironically, the absence of a consistent front-runner like McWilliams has only whetted Notre Dame's appetite for suc­cess. 
"Our first goal this year was to qualify for nationals," said Piane. "Now, we're going to fo­cus on our second and third goals, which is to place in the Top Ten or Top Three." 
"These are goals I definitely think we're capable of if every­one runs well." 
According to Cowan, how­ever, word on the information superhighway has it that the Irish aren't all they're cracked up to be. 
"We're kind of the black sheep of this meet," Cowan 
Give the Gift ofTradition 
A Limited Edition Handcolored Prints by 
Ken David 

O'Hara Room LaFortune November 18 & 19 9:00a.m.-5:00p.m. 
Our River front, 5 year old, all one level, seven rooms, 60' deck home on the north bank of the St. Joe is for sale. 22 minutes from Notre Dame. 
Boating, fishing, tennis. Large A.R.M. @ 6.04 % Assumable in Place $259,000.00 
3000 White Oaks Lane 616-695-5958 Across from Orchard Hills C. C. in Buchanan, MI. "The salmon are runninl!" 
·~.Y 
...•.. ~..
\5 ~ ..·:· ''NOTRE DAME SPECIALS'' 
TOUCHDOWN -Box lunch GOLDEN DOMER -Picnic Basket, leeds 8 ROCKNE TAllliATER -Sandwich plater, leeds 8or 12 
Heavenly Ham Also Features: •Sandwiches 
•Homemade 
Salads 

•Party 
Platters 


Spiral Cut, Fully Baked, Honey Glazed Ham 
2307 Edison ­ 1/2 Mile east of Stadium  
...  ¥....  Monday-Friday: 1 O:OD-6:30 Home Games: B:OD-2:00  
~~···  288-4267  

said. "There's been a lot of talk on the Internet this week, peo­ple basically scoffing at us and saying we haven't performed that well this season." 
"No one in the country is tak­ing us all that that seriously, and for them, I think that could be kind of dangerous," he said. 
Interestingly enough, no one team is a clear favorite to win the meet. Piane cited Wisconsin, Georgetown, Michigan, Iowa State, and Arkansas as teams that are most likely to give the Irish trouble. 
Piane denied that his squad may be especially motivated by a revenge factor against Georgetown, who soundly de­feated them earlier in the sea­son. 
"No, there's no real desire for revenge," he said. "We'd like to beat them, though, and frankly, I think we can." 
Seniors Nate Ruder, J. R. Meloro, and Cowan, juniors Joe Dunlop and Derek Martisus, sophomore Matt Althoff, and freshmen Matt Hexing will run in Monday's meet. 
Unlike most meets, where a team can enter an unlimited numbers of runners, only seven runners can run at nationals. This situation created an unusual but desirable problem for Piane-determining which of his bevy of talented runners will run at nationals. 
"The problem is that I can only run seven guys even though there is probably three or four other guys who should be able to go," he said. "I ap­preciate that people on the team are willing to express their opinions, and that they are still very supportive of the team." 
"Coach had a really difficult decision, but basically for a coach it's a really desirable po­sition to be in , " Cowan said. "He's got live guys who can fun in two or three sports, which shows our depth." 


,.. 
.----·---­
--~ --­

Friday, November 18, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
•NBA • HOCKEY 
Anderson leads Nets, leers' slide continues 
By MICHAEL DAY 
Hornets, Rockets win 
Sports Writer Associated Press the way. Hornets 99, Clippers 83 
Stuck between a rock and a EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. Larry Johnson and Dell Curry 
hard place.Kenny Anderson had 24 had 19 points each to lead the 
The Notre Dame hockey point and 13 assists as the New Charlotte Hornets to a victory team, desperate for a win after Jersey Nets took advantage of over the winless Los Angeles falling to 1-7 in conference play 
a trade that cost Washington Clippers, who equaled the with last night's 9-4 loss to the services of Tom Gugliotta worst start in club history. Western Michigan, will have to and beat the Bullets 111-103 By losing their first seven try to turn things around Thursday night. games, the Clippers matched 
tonight when they host third 
Gugliotta was shipped to the 1982-83 San Diego place Bowling Green at the Golden State along with three Clippers, who also began the Joyce Center. first-round draft picks in a season 0-7 before earning a Last night at WMU, Notre mega deal for Chris Webber victory against San Antonio in 
Dame fell behind early and was just hours before tipoff, and the their eighth game. never able to recover. The 
Bullets really could have used Charlotte took a 19-18 lead Broncos mounted a 3-0 lead the 6-foot-10 forward for one on a layup by Johnson with before the alarm clock finally more game. 5:08 to play in the first quarter rang for the Irish. Excluding 
Washington ran off eight and never trailed again. 
the first 12 minutes, the rest of straight points and grabbed its Elmore Spencer had 12 the game was competitive, but first lead since the opening sec­points to lead the Clippers. by then it was too late. 
onds when Don MacLean drove Rockets 106, Bulls 83 It only gets tougher this the lane for a dunk and a 96-Hakeem Olajuwon's 29 points evening with Bowling Green 95 lead with 6:11 to go. and Kenny Smith's 3-point 
coming into town as a heavy fa­Anderson then hit a jumper shooting led Houston to a 106­
vorite and one of the top teams and two free throws to spark 83 victory over the Chicago in the country. Despite strug­an eight-point burst that put Bulls on Thursday night, ex­gling so far this year, head New Jersey ah_ead 103-96 with tending the Rockets' season­coach Ric Shafer believes the 
3:08 to play. Washington never opening winning streak to Irish are primed to turn the got closer than five the rest of eight. season around. 
"The confidence level is still up," said Shafer following last weekend's loss. "We just need to minimize our penalties and do a better job of converting on our power plays." 
To defeat Bowling Green, the 
Irish must receive better play We're io.:Aliy operated and we're here from now until Chrjstmaa only. 
~~~~~· 

from the goaltender position. It appeared that junior Mark Salzman had the position
GREAT PRICES ON 
locked down with a solid per­
NAME BRAND TOYS INCLUDING: 
formance last weekend against Ferris State. But after giving up four early goals last night, he was replaced by sophomore Erik Berg. Throw freshman Matt Eisler (slowed by an in-
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
(Any Major) 

Think it's too soon to start thinking about a summer job? 
WE DON'T THINK SO••• 

Procter &Gamble, the Co1npany that brings you such well-known brands as Tide, Crest, Folgers, Charmin, Secret, and Duncan Hines (to name just a few) is looking for qualified applicants to hire for summer internships. 
If you are creative and can demonstrate leadership and initiative, stop by Career &Placement for more information about P&G and where to send your resume. 


Resumes Are Due By December 16th So Pick Up An Information Packet Today! 

n.ot..Mir/Eric Ruelhllng Notre Dame captain Brett Bruiniks and his Irish fell to 1-7 in CCHA play. The Irish will try to get on track tonight at home against Bowling Green. 
jury) into the picture, and it's offensive help from an unlikely anybody's guess who will start source. Junior defenseman tonight at goalie. Gary Gruber, who scored the 
On the offensive end, Notre game winning goal in the Dame is led by sophomore cen­team's only conference victory ter Tim Harberts, who con­of the season last Friday tinues to rank among the area against FSU, added another leaders in scoring. Sophomore goal last night in the final peri­left wing Terry Lorenz and od. freshman center Steve Noble, "If we can get someone both with goals against the charging to the net, then the Broncos last night, also provide goals will come," said Shafer. offensive punch for the Irish. "We just need to generate more 
Notre Dame has also received offense." 
;'asy'i'~trih 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
~~~~ho s3e~~~~~6637 . (219)277-1291 
Relax on Private Balconies Overlooking The St. Joe River 
KITCHENETTES IN ALL ROOMS LOCATED IN THE HISTORIC 100 CENTER, FEATURING RESTAURANTS, THEATRES, ANTIQUES, UNIQUE SHOPPING 
100 Center 

e 
Mishawaka, IN 
256..1501 
..... 
'-­

• 
~ 
I 
' 

• 
l• ~ 
' 


Fox's Jewelers 
University Park Mall 6501 Grape Road 272,0488 
An authorized TAG Heuer dealer. 
( 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
• VOLLEYBALL 

Undefeated in conference play, Irish play the role of MCC favorite 

By BETSY BAKER Spons Writ~r 
The ninth ranked Notre Dame volleyball team is looking to 
win its third consecutive bid to 
the NCAA tournament this 
weekend as they travel to

' 
~ DeKalb, Illinois for the
, 
Midwestern Collegiate

, 
Conference tournament.

J 
The Irish, now 10-0 in the conference and 29-2 overall, 

' 
• will open the tournament ~ Saturday morning at 10 a.m.
, 
with Wisconsin-Green Bay. 

, 
The Irish are coming off a successful weekend, last week­

~­
end, in which they completed their undefeated regular sea­son in the conference, including a 15-10, 15-8, 15-7 victory over Wisconsin-Green Bay. 
The undefeated conference record won the Irish the num­ber one seed in the tourna­ment, which should give the Irish a bit of an advantage. 
"The first seed gives us a bit of a mental edge," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown. 

' I f 
With captain Christy Peters possibly out tt:lis weekend for the Irish, players like freshman Jaimie Lee will have to step up for Notre Dame. 


November 20 (Sunda-y) 4:00 -6:00 P:M.. Hesburgh Li-brary :A.udi,tori-urn 
*This is requ.i.red for e+U. Urbe+n :Ptu.n.ge 

.... 
pa.rti,ci.pa.nts 
The Irish have now won 33 consecutive conference match­es, giving Coach Brown an undefeated record in the MCC since her arrival at Notre Dame. 26 of those matches have been in the regular sea­son, and seven have been in tournament play. 
The winner of the MCC tour­nament gets an automatic bid for the NCAA tournament which begins in two weeks. The Irish will be playing for its fourth-consecutive MCC tour­nament title and its third-con­secutive NCAA tournament ap­pearance. 
The tournament should not give the Irish much of a chal­lenge. judging by their regular season conference perfor­mance, but the team is not looking past this weekend. Many times in a season-ending tournament, teams have noth­ing to lose, and the team morals and spirits are high. But Coach Brown has complete confidence in her team. 
The ObM!ver/Bitan Hanly 

"The tournament will chal­lenge us mentally," said Brown. "There is a lot more at stake for us, not only with the NCAA bid, but we are also looking to keep our ranking." 
One obstacle this weekend is the injuries that have plagued the Irish team of late. One of the most significant injuries is the sprained ankle of senior All-American outside hitter Christy Peters. Peters returned from an extended illness for one game against Loyola before spraining her ankle in practice last Friday. 
Peters is still questionable for this weekend, but even if she was to play, she most likely would not be one hundred per­cent. In any case, the Irish have won five conference games without Peters, and it is probable that the Irish will not need her this weekend. 
"If Christy plays, she plays," said Brown. "But we have ad­justed and become comfortable playing without her." 
Freshman outside hitter Angie Harris will be looked upon this weekend to pick up much of the slack of Peters ab­sence. Harris, who is second in kills with 366 kills, was named MCC Volleyball Player of the Week this week. Her most powerful weapon is her jump serve which has placed her among the Irish record books for most service aces in a game with 8, and most service aces in a single-season with 68 through last Saturday's match­es. She is also 12th nationally. averaging 0. 71 service aces per 
game. 
business, term life insurance is one of the  
best investments you can make. Take a  25  
moment to compare these rates with what  35  
you are paying now. If your current rates are  45  
too high, give us a call. Because we represent  55  
several national insurance companies, we are  65  
confident we can find the best life insurance  

*Non-tobacco preferred rates 
value for you. 
Smoker rates available upon request. 

How Much Coverage Do You Need? Perhaps you feel you need more life insurance, but you are unsure as to how much coverage you should have. Call the Healy Company. We'll help you calcu­
te the proper amount of coverage required to meet the needs of your family siness. We'll also help you structure your life insurance program to avoid pay­ing unnecessary taxes on the proceeds. 
Call For Equally Attractive Rates on Any Other Amount of Desired Covera 

219-289-4061
Richard Preuss, CLU, ChFC Rdndy Raclll, CLU, ChfC 
Class of '80, '82 Cl•nof'BJ 
Friday, November 18, 1994 
trt._m_, .• ,.: .v· -~---· ~-!·_'·_!' !f"'_.'"
• l.A~~-~~-~ ~ -1: 
Irish to face Air Force 
By GARRETT-KERN Sports Wriwr 
The Notre Dame women's swim team· wUI be competing against Air Force today at 
6:00 PM at Rolf's Aquatic Center. The Irish are coming off of an impressive victory over the Naval Academy this pastweekend in Annapolis. 
The Irish are placing their impressive dual meet record or four wins and no losses against a tough Air Force women's team. "This will he our first meeting with the Air Force Academy ,"'' said Head Coach Tim Welsh," and this meet will be one with many close races." 
This first meeting with the Air Force Academy will be the last dual meet for the Irish before the National Catholic Championships on December 1-3. 
The Irish. though, are dBfi­nitely overlooking this meet with the Falcons. Air Force is one of the most powerful teams in Division II swimming this year. They are in con­tention for the championship this year, but Notre Dame is not ready to back down. "The team is focused and ready for the challenge," commented sophomore Jenny Reibenspies. 


at Rates You Can Live With. 
Annual Premiums 

When it comes to protecting the 
for $250,000 Coverage* 

financial security of your family or 
Age Male Female 

lWG1122.8B04241 
At Last, Term 
$198 $160 $198 $160 $245 $210 $475 $325 $1463 $773 

• MEN'S BASKETBALL 
The Obselwr/Eric Ruelhllng 

Guard Keith Kurowski poured in 25 points, as the Irish cruised past Inter-Bratislava last night 89-69. 
On Campusfor Thanksgiving Weekend? 

We welcome your participation in the community's opening celebration ofthe year-end holidays at South Bend's Century Center. 



Volunteers are needed for a variety of assignments from decorating trees to cashiering to helping children at Teddy Bear Teas. Proceeds benefit the medically underserved of Saint Joseph's Chapin Street Health Center. 
Comejoin us. We.1d love to have you. 
FESTIVAL '94 (219) 232-2121 

Friday, November I 8, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
Kurowski leads the Irish to easy exhibition win, 89-69 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Spons Editor 
Keith Kurowski feels like a kid again. 
His legs don't ache anymore each time he trots up and down the court. And his once-explo­sive first step appears quite combustible again. 
The rejuvenated Kurowski scored 25 points to lead Notre Dame to an 89-69 exhibition win over Inter-Bratislava Thursday night at the Joyce Center. 
"This is the best I've felt since high school. I have no pain at all," Kurowski said. "I feel like a high school all-star again." 
Notre Dame looked like an all-star team at times against its weary guests from Slovakia. Playing its fourth game in as many days, Inter-Bratislava couldn't sustain Notre Dame's frantic first-half pace. 
Freshman Derek Manner scored all 11 of his points in the first 20 minutes to compliment Kurowski and help the Irish open a 13-point cushion. 
"Manner is relentless," MacLeod said. "Once he begins to work, he doesn't stop. He may be overmatched in talent on some nights, but he'll never be overmatched in effort." 
Manner and Notre Dame had 
more effort and talent than 
their opponent this time. It 
showed in the first half when 
the Irish survived an 18-point 
barrage from Roman Hvorency. · 
"That was an excellent first 
half for us," Notre Dame coach 
John MacLeod said. "We had 
only four turnovers and we 

brazier® 

"A fun place to be on St. Rd. 23!" 
St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood Near Martin's Double Bu r Double Cheese Burger 
$1 99
99 

~==~~~====~~~~~~ 
rso¢QFJ:lrcw~f~:~rriP l rso¢OFFl 
I C!-"Y s•ze II I
$299 II

I Bl~;::~eor II II Grilled C~icken I J 12,16,o,21o.IJ Sandw1c~l
.II 

I Not valid with any other affer. . I I Not valid with any other offer. II Not valid with any other offer. I Umil 2. Goad at St Rd. 23 Only. .J L .J L .J
Umil 2. Good at St Rd. 23 Only. Umit 2. Good at St Rd. 23 Only.
L 
were very active defensively. That's encouraging." 
But the excitement about Thursday's multicultural exchange was tempered by the realization that Inter-Bratislava doesn't quite compare to the touring teams from Bloomington, Ind. and Durham, 
N.C. and other such hoop havens that will visit the Joyce Center this season. 
But Notre Dame introduced evidence for optimism. 
Three players in double-fig­ures, more than twice as many assists as turnovers, eight points from center Matt Gotsch in just 14 minutes and seven assists from Ryan Hoover despite a poor shooting night. These are a few of MacLeod's favorite things. 
He tinkered with various line­ups Thursday, working every­one in a uniform into the line­up. Lamarr Justice and Admore White split time at point guard, Matt Gotsch and Marcus Young appeared interchangeable in the post and Hoover, Kurowski and Pete Miller were the sharp­shooters from the perimeter. 
Notre Dame will not operate such a revolving door when the regular season begins, but MacLeod expects plenty of rota­tion. 
"We have more flexibility than we've had in the past," he said. "We may play eight to ten people in every game because we have more options avail­able." 
INTER-BRATISLAVA (69): Marek Andruska 4­8 2-2 10, Karol Wimmer 4-11 0-0 8, Darin Poindexter 10-15 3-6 23, Pavol Weiss 1-1 1-2 4, Roman Hvorency 6-13 0-0 18, Daniel Jakobovic 0­0 0-0 0, Alexander Polovjanov 3-8 0-0 6. TOTALS: 28-56 6-10 69. 
NOTRE DAME (89): Ryan Hoover 1-6 0-0 3, Marcus Young 3-6 1-2 7, Matt Gotsch 4-6 0-Q B. Keith Kurowski 10-16 2-2 25, Lamarr Justice 5-7 0­0 11, Derek Manner 5-B 0-2 11, Billy Taylor 4-6 0-0 9, Brian Watkins 2-2 1-1 5, Admore White 1-3 0-0 3, Pete Miller 2-2 0-0 6, Jason Williams 0-3 1-2 1. Kevin Ryan 0-1 0-0 0. TOTALS: 37-66 5-9 89. 
3-polnt field goals-Inter-Bratislava 7-14 (Hvorency 6-9, Weiss 1-1, Andruska 0-1. Wimmer 0-2, Poindexter 0-1), Notre Dame 10-23 (Kurowski 3-5, Miller 2-2, Hoover 1-4, Justice 1-3, Manner 1­2, Taylor 1-1, White 1-2, Williams 0-3, Ryan 0-1). Total fouls (fouled out)-lnter-Bratislava 8 (none), Notre Dame 15 (none). Rebounds-Inter­Bratislava 27 (Andruska 13), Notre Dame 33 (Gotsch 7). Assists-Inter-Bratislava 20 (Weiss 5), Notre Dame 23 (Hoover 7). Attendance--9,537. 


The Observer/Eric RuethHng Senior captain Lamarr Justice was one of three Irish to reach double figures last night at the JACC. 
O@[)DJ~G. 
~D1~~~~l1\J3 
/1 that a pencil in your poe/tel or are you ju11 happy to be here at ND? ~f.JfP!PJ7 [{)0(/~~r!Jf.JJ7 
love, Maura, Anne & John 

our otre Dame ouvenir 
Dooley Room • Lafortune Student Center • 631-8128 
Hours:  
Friday,  12:00 ­ 9:00 pm  
Saturday, 8:00  9:00 pm  
Sunday,  10:00  3:00 pm  

VISA, MASTERCARD, and DISCOVER ACCEPTED HI 
..... 
-



page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 18, 1994 
AND THEN TiJERi WER£~:1f'OUR• •• 
•' 

' < < 


Inexperienced Irish rely on talent and Despite ranking, Tar Heels emotionstill considered the favorite 
B
efore last ith a record of 23-1-1, twenty years, and 
weekend,Wit's tough to believe that has coached the N o t r e 
North Carolina is hav-U.S. women's Dame had never ing a down year. To the Tar Heels, national team. won an NCAA tour­C· lUgh, anything less than perfec­PETRUCELLI'S nament game. The
Venturini
tiOn has to be considered below PITCH: "In one of top-ranked Irish, expectations. my conversations I've had with however, remained Guerrero 
Going into this season, North Anson, he told me that at North poised enough to post come-from behind­Carolina he was not trying to win aCarolina had not been tied or beat­wins to win the Central Regional in just en in five years, and only five national championship, he was try­their second tournament appearance. teams had been able to stay within ing to keep winning them. That's a Notre Dame completed its final season in the two goals of the Tar Heels. So a 3-concept I've tried to think about Midwestern Collegiate Conference this year without
Text:

2 loss to Duke and a 0-0 tie with while building the Notre Dame pro­ever having lost a match in conference play. The Irish will
RianAkey

Notre Dame may make North gram." join final four qualifier Connecticut in the Big East Conference in 1995. Carolina more determined than KEY PLAYERS: Rosella Guerrero leads the Irish in goals with 21 for the ever to win a title and prove that it season. Guerrero broke the Notre Dame record for most career goals late is thp best team in the country. in the season and her mark currently stands at 47. Freshman Holly 
KEY PI.AYERS: North Carolina is Manthei leads the nation in assists with 29, and that mark is also an Irish led by midfielder Tisha Venturini single-season record. Sophomore goalkeeper Jen Renola has posted eight who could become just the second complete game shutouts and fourteen combined shutouts while compiling player in history to earn first­a .467 goals against average. team all-American honors in COACH: Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli has posted an 85-13-6 each of her four collegiate sea­record in his five seasons with the Irish. This is his second NCAA tourna­sons. Goalkeepers Tracy Noonan i ment appearance and first appearance in the final four. (.441 and Shelley Finger (.54) PETRUCELLI'S PITCH: "There's a lot of fight in this team. We were lead the ACC in goals against down in both games in the regional, we were down to Portland earlier in average. the year, and they came back. There's too much talent, 
COACH: Anson Dor··ance has a depth, and desire for this team not to win." career record of 321 -'J-10 at North Carolina. I le has been named by Soccer America as one of the twen­ty most influential men in Amp•·ican soccer over the previous 
Low-scoring UConn must match UNCPilots have had hard luck punchagainst Final Four foes 

E
ven if f any tf~am in the final four needs the homefield 
either.I advantage, it may be Portland. Though the No. 7 Connecticut · 
Pilots have posted a 7-4 record against top-20 or Notre Dame fail to teams this season. they have gone 0-3 against the other advance to a meeting
Tiffeny
three semifinal qualifiers. in this year's national 
Mil brett 
Portland lost a 1-0 game at No.6 Conne'cticut before title game, the Huskies and Ginny dropping home matches to Notre Dame (2-1) and North Carolina (0-1). the Irish are sure to battle Woodward 
Injuries have plagued the Pilots much of the year. Two-time all­Graphics: each other next season for a American Shannon MacMillan missed several games during the mid-sea­Christopher championship of a different sort. son while recovering from having a pin inserted into her bro-In 1995, Notre Dame joins Connecticut in the Big East, and a round­
Mullins 

ken left foot. All-American Justi Baumgart. out for robin regular season schedule assures the teams of at least one meeting. reconstructive ankle surgery. has also missed most While Connecticut has shut out 13 opponents this season and allowed of the season. only 11 goals, the Huskies have scored just 49 times theemselves com­KEY Pl.A YEI· .~: Two-time all-American pared with Portland's 70, Notre Dame's 103, and North Carolina's 106. Tiffeny Milbret~ k.-> the team's leading goal­KEY PLAYERS: Connecticut is led in scoring by sophomore forward scorer. Milbrett ~ 103 career goals ties her Ginny Woodward, who has 11 goals and four assists. Woodward scored with former North Carolina standout Mia the game-tying goal in the second overtime of UConn's win over No. 8 llamm for all-time leader in career goals Hartford in the Northeast Regional Championship. Senior goalkeeper Jill scored. Forward Shannon MacMillan, also Gelfenbien has started all 22 games for the Huskies. posting a .44 goals­
-a two-time all-American, has scored 27 against average. · goals in just 17 games this season. COACH: Head Coach Len Tsantiris. in his 14th season with UConn. is 
COACH: Clive Charles holds a 84-22-4 leading the Huskies into their 13th consecutive NCAA tournament and his record in five seasons as women's head sixth final four. Last season Tsantiris became only the second coach coach. Charles also coaches the University (after North Carolina's Anson Dorrance) to win 200 career games. !lis 
of Portland men's squad. He has coached his career record at Connecticut is 225-60-16. women's squad to three consecutive NCAA PETRUCELLI'S PITCH: "Connecticut is not a surprise team at all. Any berths, but this is his first appearance in the one of three teams from that region could have qualified for the finals. final four. and Connecticut would have been one of the three." 
PETRUCELLI'S PITCH: "There will be two keys to the game: How our defenders play against their for­
o_am_e v__ •• Portland I' Natlona_I c_ rnplonettlp
ha..·
wards ar ''ow our attackers play against their forwards." 
. • · ·. . . _· Sunday, 7:30p.m., E;$PN2 (Tape Delay) 

Irish 
continued from page 28 
fore." 
But other Irish players have different ways of determining the tournament favorite. 
"Portland has the advantage because they have their home field," freshman Julie Maund said. "And they'll have a big crowd." 
The Pilots expect a capacity crowd of 5,000 people, and Merlo Field fans are recognized for their knowledge of soc­cer. 

-"They're very loud and they know the game." Petrucelli said. "It's as much of a soccer crowd as you'll see here." Even with the pressures of a bolster­ous partisan crowd, Notre Dame's most formidable opponents will still be on the field. 
Against Portland, that means limiting the effectiveness of two-tim·e All­Americans Tiffany Milbrett and Shannon MacMillan. Milbrett is currently tied with former North Carolina standout Mia Hamm in all-time career goals scored with 103. 
Milbrett scored one goal in the Irish­Pilots match earlier this season. MacMillan was shut out, but was play­ing in her first game following an injury to her left foot. With a healthier MacMillan joining Milbrett, Pilot coach Clive Charles knows exactly what kind of performance he needs from his two star players. 
"They need to score lots and lots of goals," he said. 
Charles' team's 19-5 record is deceiv­ing unless the extent of Portland's injuries is considered. Along with MacMillan, All-American Justi Baumgart has also missed much of the season with an ankle injury. The Pilots went into the Notre Dame game having lost three of their previous six matches while MacMillan was injured. 
Charles considers the semifinal matchup between his team and the Irish to be competitive. 
"Both teams know each other and respect each other," Charles said. "Notre Dame is the best team we've played all year." 
And Charles gives little value to the homefield advantage: 
"At this point in the year, everyone's shown they can play against everyone," he said, "so the homefield really isn't all that important." 
Petrucelli, though, disagrees. 
"They get to sleep in their own beds and play on the same field they practice on every day," he said. ''I'd much rather play them at a neutral site." 
Stopping Milbrett and MacMillan, however, will be much tougher than in practice. For the Irish, that responsibili­ty will fall on sophomore Kate Fisher and freshman Kate Sobrero. 
"I'm a little nervous," Sobrero said, "because I'll have to play great and shut her down. It's a lot of pressure. I never thought I'd have this much responsibil­ity." 
But if Sobrero handles pressure like the rest of the Irish squad, her nerves won't show one bit on Merlo Field. She'll roll up her sleeves and get down to work. 


Friday, November 18, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 25 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish confident despite track record against Hoosiers 
Seniors excited about rematch 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Sports Writer 
When the brackets were finalized and the results announced there was not a mummer of a groan. There was only excitement. 
Yes, the Notre Dame men's soccer will face the number one seed and number one ranked Indiana this Sunday in the first round of the NCAA tournament, but there is no reason to fret. The Irish could not think of a better match-up, especially the seniors. 
"It's good, we get one more chance at them," senior forward Tim Oates said. "We haven't been able to beat them in four years, and thought we've lost our chance. Now we have another shot. Here's our chance to beat them." 
''I'm glad we're playing them," senior co-captain Jason Fox added. "We play them in the preseason, the regular sea­son, and in the spring season, and now we can pay them back for all the games they've won." 
"The seniors are really pumped up," sophomore midfielder Tony Capasso added. "They feel we've let them have a lot of games." 
With this desire to win by the seniors and the pull of the tournament the Irish cannot help but feel confident. 
"We're confident, but in a quiet way," Fox said. "We know them and we know what we need to do as a team to win." 
While the Irish are eager for the rematch, they are not overconfident. "We're not overconfident," Capasso said. "We look at as one big challenge. 

Men's Soccer Tournament 
Now we have to step up to that chal­lenge, and see what we're made of." 
The challenge is going to be shutting down the best midfield in the country. The Hoosiers are led by midfielders Brian Maisonneuve and Todd Yeagley. While Yeagley is greatly respected around the country, Maisonneuve is con­sidered one of the best. He was named the Big Ten's Most Valuable Player for the second straight year. 
It was Maisonneuve who single hand­edly defeated the Irish early this season as he scored the only two goals of the match in what many consider a mon­soon. 
"They have the best midfield in the country," coach Mike Berticelli said. "Brian Maisonneuve is the best player in the country and should be the Herman player of the year." 
"The key is shutting down the mid­field," Fox added. 
"We can't give them (Indiana midfield) a lot of time with the ball," Capasso said. "We can't allow them to make good decisions." 
Yet, even against the Hoosier mid­field, the Irish have kept the matchups close every year. 
"We've always had close and good games against Indiana," Berticelli said. This time the Irish may have the advantage. They enter the tournament 

The Observer/Brian Hardy Senior forward Keith Carlson, the team's second leading scorer, will be leading the Irish in tomorrow's NCAA tournament showdown with the top-seeded Hoosiers of Indiana. 
as one of the last seeds, which means no pressure. 
"We can't think we're better than Indiana because we're not," Berticelli explained. "That takes the pressure off. We have the nothing to lose syndrome. We can be the spoiler." 
Without the pressure the Irish can 


1~a-~fJ/~«kMt6~d 
tpJ«-•••~ t6 tk ~, IUJ ~~, l«<-~t6«4ea-~, ~~ ~,~~,~dMp, ~tk ~, tU«i, tJit ~, 

While Supplies last at Notre Dame Computer Store Rm 112, Math Building 
Those who take advantage get advantage ! 
©1994 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, PowerBook, and StyleWriter are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. MS-DOS is a registered trademark and Windows is a trademark ofMicrosoft Corporation. 
focus on their own game. 
"We'll just go back to basics," Berticelli said. "We have to be sharp and confident. Do the things we do best, and hope to catch a break." 
As he says there is not much to lose. "If we catch a break-fine. If not, we lost to the number one seed." 
-
Stylewriter II $275 
-





TONIGHT!

-
Satisij ahungry team. 
NOTRE DAME HOCKEY 
vs. BOWLING GREEN 
TONIGHT • 7 P.M. Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
FREE ADMISSION!

-
with student ID 

Before or after watching the Irish play Air Force tomorrow, let SUBWAY make you aSix-Foot Combo Special-AHEARTY SANDWICH THAT WILL SATISFY ANY HUNGRY TEAM-for as low as $37.95. 
page 26 

The Observer • SPORTS 
• INTERHALL fOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIPS 


Bats sets sight on Crime's vaunted defense 
By NEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 
Sunday's Off-Campus-Zahm Interhall Football Champion-ship is kind of like an Old Milwaukee Beer commercial. It doesn't get any better than this. Unless, of course, the Swedish Bikini team were to come rafting downstream at halftime. 
The senior-laden Off-Campus Crime is looking to go out on a high note, while the Rabid Bats are looking to continue their dynasty. Over the past four years, Zahm has compiled a 20-3-3 record, including three Stadium appearances. 
Freshman quarterback Benji Hammond leads a Rabid Bats offense that struggled throughout the regular season, but has improved as of late. 
"On the basis of our past two games, I have new­found confidence in our offense," captain Dave Bozanich said. "We've put together three drives that have been solid and error free and resulted in touchdowns. I couldn't have asked for a better time for our offense to be on a roll." 
Zahm's running game will depend on the legs of Matt Bundick. Tricky wideout Rick Rios will be Hammond's prime target. 
The Rabid Bats are facing a tough Off-Campus defense, led by middle Linebacker George Reider recognized around Interhall as the league's great­est defensive mind. 
His Crime defense will use its lineman to tie up the offensive line, and lets its linebackers roam free to create havoc. 
Zahm will try to run the ball, but their offense 
CIDuu=-~ff.}[TI[) CP [][]~ 
vs 
~WC!JCD~ 
RECORD: 6-1-1 
COACHES: Tom Ysura, Pete 
Couri 
CAPTAINS: Kelly Guerin, Nikole Neidlinger 
OFFENSIVE STYLE: Like to let 
offensive line blow opponents 
off the ball. 
Pu.VERS WHO MUST PRODUCE; 
OB Neidlinger, RB Sara 
Donnelly, WR Michelle Drury, 
LB Guerin 
OUTLOOK: Must establish run­
ning game or passing game 
early or will be forced to play 
catch-up. Must find a way to 
stop Layden.

·­TOP QuoTE: "If the defense can keep it up and we stay with our game and execute then we'll have a goOd chance to come away with the title." -RB sara Donnelly 
THE PICKS: Lewis captain PATRICIA VASALLO: 0-C 14, Lyons 7 Walsh captain BOO WITHERS: 0-C 18, Lyons 8 Michael Day: Lyons 13, 0-C 6 
RECORD: 7-1 CoACHES: Kevin Kuwlck, Andy Brandt, Jim Mullen, Kevin Klau 
CAPTAINS! Julie Byrd, Jenny Layden 
OFFENSIVE STYLE: MiXes running game in with Julie Byrd-Layden paslng tandem. 
PLAYERS WHO MUST PRODUCE: QB Byrd, WR Layden, CB Maureen Hill, OL Christy Blakey 
OUTLooK: If Layden gets Involved early this one could be a breeze. Stingy defense must come to play. 
ToP QuoTE: "When the offense has been down the defense has picked up the 'slack and when the defense has strugled, the offense has come through. We can beat you in more than one way." 
-Coach Kevin Kuwlk 

depends on passing. Off-Campus captain Dave Dettore thinks the only throwing done will be for a loss, when someone faces his defense. 
"We dare them to come after us. If they have trouble running the ball, I'll be surprised if their quarterback lasts the whole game. If they come out expecting to pass, they'd better have a couple of quarterbacks." 
On the other side of the ball, the Crime will look to establish the ground game against a strong Zahm defense that didn't allow a point in the reg­ular season. The trifecta of Mike Thompson, Dettore, and Chris Monahan will rotate at running back. 
At quarterback will be Benji's older brother Chris. He orchestrated the winning drive against Stanford in the semifinals, and will be throwing to Pete Couri, R.J. Sandine, and Tom Fitzpatrick. 
Talent wise, the game is the Crime's to win. However, Off-Campus is notorious for "strategy" practices without a lot of physical contact. That lack of conditioning could haunt the Crime in the fourth quarter. Zahm should also have the edge in crowd support. 
"Whoever plays us thinks they're playing a team of twenty-four guys, but they're playing a team of 250 guys," Bozanich said. 
Dettore is confident that Off-Campus will emerge victorious. 
"We thought Stanford was the best team in the league," he said. "As long as everyone's not too hung over from our last home game, we'll be in 
good shape." 


Surprise 0-C must stop Lyons' potent attack 
By MICHAEL DAY defense ' will encounter a talented Sports Writer Lyons offensive unit led by quar­terback Julie Byrd, wideout 
Ladies and gentlemen... Boys Layden, and a dominating offen­and girls ... This one is for all the sive line. marbles. The tandem of Byrd and Layden 
It's winner take all on Sunday has emerged as the team's top afternoon at Notre Dame Stadium threat, and a rapidly improving as Lyons and Off-Campus square running ~arne could also present off to decide once and for all who prolems for the 0-C defense. is worthy of the title of 1994 "Our offense is multi-dimen­Women's Interhall football cham­sional," said Lyons coach Kevin pion. Kuwik. "We can beat you by run­
Both teams march into the title ning or passing. We just have to game coming off impressive victo­play with a lot of intensity." ries and playing their best foot­The Off-Campus defensive unit, ball of the year. Off-Campus' 6-0 led by linemen Allison Coit and triumph over No. 1 seed Siegfried Annette Putz, safety Linda Keefe, coupled ·with Lyons' 14-0 victory and linebackers Kelly Guerin and over Pangborn last weekend set Molly McShane, has a tough test up the much anticipated battle ahead of them this weekend. for the championship. The Observer/Eric Ruethling But after shutting out the high
With shutout victories over 0-C quarterback Nikole Neidlinger. powered Siegfried offense last 
Pasquerilla East and Pangborn, Sunday, the Off-Campus defense 
Lyons is yet to be scored on in the playoffs. The squad will face its toughest challenge of the season in trying to con­tain Off-Campus' explosive offensive combination of quarterback Nikole Neidlinger, tailbacks Sara Donnelly and Megan Allen, and receiver Michelle Drury. 
"The defense must continue to play well," said Lyons receiver Julie Layden. "We must stay focused and execute to have success against them." 
On the other side of the coin, the Off-Campus Friday, November 18, 1 
Z~ff.l [][} OL..II.l 
vs 
CIDu=a~ c~~a_~:. rP L£1~ 
RECORD: 4-Q-2 RECORD; 5-1 CoACHEs: Jerry Fitzpatrick, Tom CoACHes: none Fitzpatrick CAPTAINS: Dave Bozanlch, Rick CAPTAINS: George Reider, Dave Rios, Matt Bundick. Dettore 
OFFENSIVE STYLE: Let the younger· OFFENSIVE STYLE: Run it down Hammond air ff out. your throats. 
PLAYERS WHO MUST PRODUCE: QB PLAYERS WHO MUST PRODUCE: QB Benjl Hammond, AB Bundick, Wr Chris Hammond, RBs Mike Aios. entire 0-line. Thompson, Chris Monahan. LBs 
Reider, John Kilcoyne OUTLOOK: The Rabid Bats need to move the ball against with OUTLooK: The Crime needs to some consistency against a avoid penalties and mental mis­tough Crime defense. Must stuff takes. If 0-C can't establish run­the run on defense. ning game might be in trouble 
against underrated Zahm 'D.' ToP QuOTE: ·we have to continue our error-free play. No penalties, ToP QuoTE: "We're already look­no mental mistakes. Once we ing into where the trophy gets to eliminate those, we need to play stay. We know if we can execute, aggressive and be ready to pun­we're the only team that can beat ish people. Off-Campus really us on Sunday." knows how to bang heads togeth­-Captain Dave Dettore er. We can't back down." -Captain Dave Bozanlch 
THE PICKS: Stanford captain CHAD SMOCK: 0-C 8, Zahm 0 Flanner captain TODD KELLER: 0-C 12, Zahm 7 NEIL ZENDER: Zahm 7, 0-C 6 
appears to be primed and ready 
for the challenge. 
"We've been working on our defense a lot in practice," said Donnelly. "If we can keep up the good defense, we'll have a better chance on Sunday." 
Each squad has been virtually unstoppable on both sides of the football this season. Both teams enter the matchup at the top of their game, but both Lyons and Off-Campus believe they are sav­ing their best for Sunday. 
Indeed, the moment of truth has finally arrived. 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

Friday, November 18, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 27 
DILBERT 
01-\ GR~,._\.' j\J'ST G~AT' HO'tl f...\11 I GOING 1\l Ml\~£. A ROI\DR\JNNER W\\1-\0J\ 
1'1\\l\ -r..c.\1.£. "! 



1 Underground passageway 9 Where shadowy figures appear? 15 Handel bars 16 Steamship smokestack 
17 007 thriller by Robert Markham 
18 "Hurry up!" 19 666, to some 20 Plaster of Paris, 
perhaps 22 Asia, with "the" 23 Betel palm 25 Pitcher 27 Health-care pros 29 Retreat 30K·O 
combination 
-State ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1o Just 11 -alia 12 Amphora 
handle 13 Jack Diamond's nickname 14 Jukebox part 
to 
24 Dernier­(latest fashion) 26 Bambi's aunt 28 Burglar's shoe? 30 Tacklebox item 31 Giant Giant 
32 Night goddess 
hangover 



CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG I BUT Tf-\E ONLY Tl-\lNG YOU KNOW 1-\0W TO DO IS STARE AT TI-\E :(REEN SAVER. 
"'-.. 
64 Missile telemetry site 38 Flexible, in a 66 Mistake way eliminator 39 Sink a 67 Separation submarine? 681978 N.BA 40 Endangered M.V.P. antelope 69 Hood 41 Baskin-Robbins orders 
DOWN
46 Gunpowder site 47 ---leaf cluster 1 First name in 48Go blonde fashion 49 Top-drawer 2 Bouquet 50 Take out for 301d German 
coin: Var. 54 Evening 4 Expiate, with spectacle "for" 
57 Teddy 5 Snooker Roosevelt 6 Spaghetti sauce target ingredient 
60 Baal, e.g. 7 One in 500? 62X a Ship officers 9 Kansas, the 
rrlie Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, 'l1ie 06server is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community .. 
) 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found 'l1ie 06server an indispensible link to the two cam­puses.. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive 'l1ie 06serverin your home.. 
DAVE KELLETT 
BILL WATTERSON 
MA'\'3~ 'lO\l S\\0\JLD~ 

1\-\CNG\-\T 0~ \1-\t\T 15't.tOR~ 7:00 A.\ N\G\-\1. iCN'LI.. \if...~£. \F I GEl" P>.. BAD ID MA~t. a-.11:. ~£. GRAOI:., \HI.. BE 
0:\\'t.R Wf.,.'\ . #HI-'--' "' YOUR R\\l\J fOR ru;•r-:= KClT Do\!'I& T\.\E ~bRI< roR t-IlE! 
SCOTT ADAMS 


34 Parhelion 45--Moines 55 Some antitoxins 35 XXX x X 49 Bikini blowout 56 Airline to 36 Congratulate in in '46 Ben-Gurion 
away 51 Type types 58 Not celebrated 37 City of 52 Shocking 59 Kind of cracker Portuguese wedding vow? 61 Satyric glance India 
53 For the-63 Auto racer­
38 Cry of surprise, 
Fabi

54 Cousin of the
in the comics 

Venus' flytrap 65 Part of a joule 
42 Tic-tac-toe triumph 43 The Green ­

Get answers to any three clues 
(superhero) 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
44 Revolutionary 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
leader of 1911 

THE FAR SIDE GARY lARSON 


Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Make checks payable: The Observer and mail: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

0 Enclosed is $60 for one academic year. 
0 Enclosed is $35 for one semester. 
Name __________________________________ _ Address.____________________________ _ City____________State___Zip_____ 
... 
-


SPORTS 
page 28 Friday, November 18, 1994 
• 
The how 

ByRlANAKEY 
The Irish take center stage, still trying to convince themselves they can be the best 


W
en 
h e 
N o t r e 
D a m e 

women's soccer team steps onto Merlo Field in Portland today to open semifinal play in the NCAA tournament, anyone who has not seen the Irish before will hardly think the Irish are ready to play, 
Kate Fisher may screech something unin­telligible as loudly as she can, Michelle McCarthy may do a little midfield dance, and if it's even a little bit sunny Jodi Hartwig will probably have her sleeves rolled up so she can work on her tan. 
At least Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli hopes so. 
"It's a very loose team," Petrucelli said, "And I'm concerned when they look like they're focused because that means they're nervous." 
But in listening to Petrucelli talk about the game, it seems the Irish have very little to be nervous about. His team simply has to play the same game it has played all sea­son long. 
"We're not going to change anything," he said. "We've won 22 games this season by attacking, and that's what we'll continue to do. 
"A lot of teams get more conservative in the tournament and play defensive soccer. This tournament is a showcase for our sport and we want to put on a show." 
One way the Irish hope to provide excite­ment is to continue their penchant for scor­ing goals in rapid succession. In last week­end's regional, Notre Dame scored two goals in less than three minutes against George Mason, and two more goals within seven minutes against William and Mary. 
Earlier this sea­son, the Irish had three goals in a five minute span against Duke, a feat which drained Blue Devil pli\Yers of any emotion they may have had. 
"There's always a bit of letdown from the other team when we score," Petrucelli said. "We try to get a little more intense and focused to take ad­vantage of that." 
One game where the Irish were unable to score consecutive goals was the only game this season in which they were held score­less-the 0-0 tie with North Carolina. Despite being ranked and seeded ahead of Carolina, the Irish are quick to point out the Tar Heels as tournament favorites. 
"North Carolina has the experience," Petrucelli said. "That's why I've said they're the favorites." 
Goalkeeper Jen Renola agrees that the Tar Heel edge lies in their experience. "North Carolina is definitely the favorite," she said, "because they've been here be-
see IRISH I p;g~ 24 


top quote ...
-NO BOBBY KNIGHT 
"My grandfather played there, my
The Irish men's soccer team squares off against 
father, three of my brothers ...it's
another Indiana powerhouse in NCAA 
my time to shine." 
tournament action 
-Off-Campus running back Chris Monahan 
See page 25 
on playing in Notre Dame Stadium. 




