
~1"\ltl Yt A ' i!
• II{ ~ 
C U L L E (; F. 
~ NCe)TRE' [ • ·
Tuesday, February 8, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 85 
Til[ INlJEPl-NDl:NT NEWSPAI'rlt SEI\VINC NOTRE DAMf AND SAINT MAI\Y'~ 

NOTRE DAME ELECTION RESULTS 

Coughlin/Capua 12.54°/o 
68 of the 1577 ofT-campus stu­ticket and who are using it to dents cast votes. pad their resumes and get into 
"We're very pleased with the law school," said Hungeling. overwhelming turnout for our Corbett and DuBay feel confi­ticket," said Hungeling. "Matt dent about Wednesday's and I would like to thank our runoff, but warn students that moms." Hungeling and Orsagh's plan to 
Hungeling attributes his and dissolve student government in Orsagh's success to the student favor of bringing the Grateful body's frustration with the peo­Dead to campus will end a ple of student government. number of projects that stu­
"I just think that people are dents enjoy. disappointed with the people "If student government is dis­who run on such a polished solved, students don't realize 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling 
Professor Haim Gordan from Been-Sheva University in Israel lectured yesterday on the problems found in the Gaza Strip. He feels Israel should turn the area over to the Palestinians in the interest of human rights. 

Palestinians need tnore self rule 
By GRETCHEN GUSICH 
News Writer 

To help ensure the human rights of the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and to educate the Israelis as to the abuses of hu­man rights-this is the purpose of the Gaza Team, according to Professor Haim Gordan. 
Gordan, a professor from the Ben-Gurion University in Been­Sheva, Israel, and an active member of the Israeli and Palestinian Gaza Team, rec­ommended a new approach to resolving the conflict over terri­torial claim to the Gaza Strip. 
"We have to change all of the concepts and all of the ap­proaches we have been using from a vision of aggression and war to a vision of peace and sharing," he stated in his lec­ture, ''The Peace Process in the Middle East: Prospects and "We have some responsibility Problems." to change that situation for the 
"Jerusalem is a city that is better. We have a responsibility holy to three faiths. It is holy to to these people," said Gordan. Muslims, it is holy to Christians The Palestinian Liberation and it is holy to Jews. We have Organization (PLO), according to give one section to the Mus­to Gordan, could negotiate for lims; it is theirs. We have to the land and, in the process, give one section to the Chris­neglect the welfare of those tians; it is theirs." Palestinians inhabiting the 
Specifically, Gordan voiced Gaza Strip. support for the conversion of "They (the PLO) will create a the primarily Palestinian-occu­small, rich elite and all of the pied Gaza Strip from an Israeli rest of the Palestinians will be state to a Palestinian autonomy. poor. The Palestinians in the 
This conversion will result in camps deserve a more social­problems in the immediate oriented economy than is being future, yet will secure peaceful negotiated now." relations between the nations Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak in the future, according to Rabin has also been reluctant Gordan. in handing over the Gaza Strip. 
One possible concern is the "Forty percent of the land in continuance of cruelty to the the Gaza Strip has been confis­common Palestinians occupying camps in the Gaza Strip. 
see LECTURE I page 4 

Other 0.09°/o 
what they are going to miss," said Corbett and DuBay in a prepared statement. 
"We'd be trading SYRs, hall formals and class trips for only one show that takes three years to book. If you thought the administration was bad with student government, wait until you eliminate it and stu­dents have no voice in what happens to them," they contin­
see ELECTION I page 4 


Senate asks 
•


questions about group 

By ANALISE TAYLOR News Writer 
A "non-partisan, grassroots" campaign .that wishes to open a chapter on campus came under scrutiny at last night's Student Senate meeting. 
STUDENT SENATE 

The group "LEAD...OR LEAVE" proposes to "get younger Americans back into politics, educate them about the economic crisis facing our nation and build a political force to fight for a progressive platform for economic change." 
"It (the group) tries to mobi­lize our generation," said stu­dent senator Karen DuBay. 
The Washington D.C. based group is a government ac­countability program repre­senting the younger genera­tions, DuBay said. 
Student Senators expressed concerns about the group's po­litical affiliation and the issues 
see SENATE I page 4 

Arafat, Peres attempting to renew peace negotiations 
By MARIAM SAMI 
Associated Press 
_ CAIRO 

PLO leader Yasser Arafat and Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres began discussions Monday on the start of the long-delayed withdrawal of Is­rael's troops from the Gaza Strip and Jericho. 
The decision to renew the stalled negotiations came after more than a week of bickering and strenuous mediation by Egypt that apparently included a series of phone calls Monday morning. 
At midmorning, officials at PLO headquarters in Tunis said Arafat would not be meeting Peres, but they later said the PLO leader reversed his deci­sion. 
Peres said before departing from Tel Aviv that Israel want­ed to move forward in the peace talks, but has not changed its position. 
Neither Israeli nor Pales­tinian officials predicted imme­diate agreement from Monday's meeting -a contrast to the optimism over the two men's last discussions in Davos, Switzerland, little more than a week ago. 
In Jerusalem, Gad Ben-Ari, spokesman for Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, said Monday's meeting was not ex­pected to produce a signed agreement. "What is expected is that the negotiations will con­tinue," he said. 
Saeed Kamal, the PLO envoy to Egypt, said the two leaders would probably meet again Tuesday but added it would take longer to iron out dis­agreements over Israel's with­drawal from Gaza and the West Bank town of Jericho. 
"We hope to be able to break the deadlock in the negotiations to establish within the next few weeks each term of the agree­ment," Kamal told reporters. 
Arafat arrived at about 7 p.m. and had dinner with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and visiting Austrian President Thomas Klestil. Peres came about two hours later and headed for a meeting with Arafat and Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa. 
Under the lsraeli-PLO accord signed Sept. 13 in Washington, Israeli troops were to begin withdrawing in mid-December to turn over day-to-day running of Gaza and Jericho to Arafat's Palestine Liberation Organiza­tion. 
But in negotiations since Oc­tober, the two sides could not agree on who would guard bor­ders from the Palestinian areas to Jordan and Egypt, the size of the Jericho area and how to protect Jewish settlers remain­ing in Gaza. 
Arafat and Peres were re­ported close to a pact at their meeting Jan. 29-30 in Switzer­land. But the deal fell apart, and Israel and the PLO have been arguing since over at what level talks would be re­sumed. 
Arafat's hesitation to join the talks came after chief Pales­tinian negotiator Nabil Shaath complained Saturday that Peres lacked authority to make deci­sions. He said Peres had been reined in by Rabin when the Davos talks were moving ahead. 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, February 8, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 


Cynicism runs amuck at Notre Dame 
I admit I am a person-------­

who is often quick to criti­
cize. Because of this, I'm 
determined to take the time 
to reflect on all the positive 
feelings I have for this uni­
versity: 
What a good feeling it is 
to attend a university 
whose policies have 

always treated me like a Mark Krejci 
mature adult. Asst. Viewpoint Editor 
Parietals have ·truly

formed me into a respon-________ 
sible young man who knows how to interact 
with women. 

Also, I am so grateful that Notre Dame diplays 
such generosity, understanding, and trust when 
it comes to a student's financial matters. 
Even when they tell me,"ATTENTION! Your 
account remains unpaid. All grades and tran­
scripts will be heh;l until the remainder of your 
balance is payed," I know they're only being 
fair. 

In fact, one of the most special aspects about 
Notre Dame is how it makes every effort to 
meet the financial need of students. Notre 
Dame Financial Aid would never try to maxi­
mize government loans and work study hours in . a student's financial aid packages to save itse 
money. 

All the fees are so reasonable and fair, espe­
cially for parking stickers and Reserve Book 
room late fees. 

I gladly pay my .75 cents an hour since I know 
that Notre Dame would never mean to exploit 
me fmancially. 

I am so impressed how many full professors 
teach my classes. I only had TA's teaching my 
classes and grading my papers for three years. 
Speaking of classes, I can't express how 
thankful I am to always be able to get the class­
es I want without any hassles or problems. 
My $80,000 is truly well spent. 
Also, I can't forget how well Notre Dame 
seems to live up to its low student -professor 
ratio. 

In addition, you're not a number at Notre 
Dame. You're a person. 

(Heard in North Dining Hall: "What? You 
don't have your ID? I'm sorry, you'll have to 
charge your meal and then walk to South 
Dining Hall by tomorrow to void the charge. I 
know you're a student. But it's my job. Sorry.") 
University policy always tries to make our 
lives easier. 

I want to express my gratitude to all the peo­
ple in the administrative offices who always 
make sure to call me by name: It makes me 
feel so good when they say to me, "Thank you, 
John. Have a nice day." 

It even makes it more special since they're the 
only people who call me by my first name. 
Lastly, Notre Dame culture is truly sophisti­
cated and open to diversity of people and 
appearance. 

For example, no one here would ever 
sterotype a person because of their appearance, 
such as associating long hair with femininity. 
How thankful we should be that no one feels 
alienated or prejudiced against here. 
On second thought, then, maybe there are 
hardly any real problems here. 
Why would anyone ever want to be so criti­
cal? 

The _views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Mightiest unmanned rocket blasts offwith military satellite 

TODAY'S STAFF 
CAPE CANAVERAL 

America's mightiest unmanned rocket thun­dered into space Monday on a $1.3 billion mili­tary mission that critics say is no longer needed because of the demise of the Cold War. 
The last time the Air Force's Titan 4 rocket flew, it blew up. It was an estimated $1 billion­plus disaster, one of the most expensive in U.S. space history. 
This time, the payload was as contestable as the rocket. The Titan 4 that blasted off at 4:47 
p.m. from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station car­ried a new military communications satellite called Milstar. 
The satellite, designed to provide instant, extra-secure communications among the U.S. armed services, cost $1 billion. The rocket and 
associated launch costs were $290 million. 
"Milstar provides unprecedented security." said Air Force Brig. Gen. Leonard Kwiatkowski, program director of the military satellite communications joint pr9gram office. "We can't provide that security today, and what that translates to is jamming threats and the ability of the enemy to intercept and listen to what we're doing." 
Some members of Congress and others have questioned the need for such an expensive satellite in the post-Cold War era. Even as the Air Force counted down toward Monday's liftoff, NASA's Discovery flew overhead with the first Russian to fly on a U.S. space shuttle. 
Kwiatkowski said the Milstar program already has been 
ABC urged to air 'Roseanne' with gay kiss LOS ANGELES 
A gay rights group urged ABC on Monday to air an episode of "Roseanne" that shows Roseanne Arnold exchanging a kiss with Mariel Hemingway in a gay bar. The network has refused to broadcast the March 1 episode with the scene intact, said Tom Arnold, husband of the star and the series' co-executive producer. "It should air as scheduled," said Lee 

Werbel, executive director of the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation-Los Angeles. "It's wonderful to see the honest portrayals of life that the 'Roseanne' show continues to present," she said. "The kiss, which seems to be causing so much concern, is just a moment, but is an integral moment to the storyline." The network had no comment, said spokeswoman Sherrie Berger. 
One parachutist dead, another injured 
YUMA, Ariz. 
Two members of the Army's precision parachute team, the Golden Knights, collided during a practice jump. One died and the other lost both legs. The cause of Sunday's accident wasn't known, but it wasn't faulty equipment, Col. Richard Walker, commander of the Yuma Proving Grounds, said Monday. Sgt. Jose Aguillon, of San Antonio suffered a fatal heart attack after landing in a tree, said Chuck Wullenjohn, a spokesman for the proving grounds. Sgt. Dana Bowman, of North Ridgeville, Ohio, landed in a parking lot near the intended target, suffering injuries that forced amputation of both legs below the knee, he said. Bowman, a veteran of 300 jumps, was in serious condition at Barrow Neurological Institute in Phoenix. Aguillon had been in more than 1,500 jumps with the Golden Knights. It was the sixth death in the team's 35­year history and the first since 1987, said Sgt. Jose Pruneda, a spokesman at the team's base in Fort Bragg, N.C. 
scaled back and restructured at Congress' request. 
A classified electronics payload aboard this Milstar, for instance, was disconnected because it's no longer needed, Kwiatkowski said. That pay­load was removed from the next Milstar, to be launched in 1995, and replaced with 878 pounds of aluminum for balance. And it will be replaced in the second-generation Milstars with higher datacrate systems. 
"The $40 billion program has been cut to cut to at least $17 (billion) or less," Kwiatkowski said. That includes $8.8 billion for building six Milstars, including the one launched Monday. 
But even that's too much, said John Pike, direc­tor of the Federation of American Scientists' space policy project. 
"It's an extremely expensive satellite with aston­
ishingly modest capabilities, an obsolete relic of the Cold War that would be better placed in the Air and Space Museum and save the rocket for a useful payload," Pike said. 
The Milstar was ready for launch last summer, but was grounded by rocket and other problems, most notably the August explosion of a Titan 4. The Titan and its secret military payload blew up less than two minutes after liftoff from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California; the problem was traced to a faulty booster repair. 
This was the second launch attempt for Milstar. The first, on Saturday, was ruined by last-minute trouble with ground equipment. 
U.S. launches new attempt in Haiti 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 

The United States has begun a new diplomatic attempt to revive stalled negotiations on restoring democracy in Haiti, but key lawmakers on Monday gave it little chance at success. U.S. Ambassador William Swing, the leaders of Haiti's parliament and several other Haitian politicians traveled Sunday to Washington for talks with exiled P.resident Jean-Bertrand Aristide and American and U.N. officials. The politicians included two frequently men­tioned candidates to be Haiti's next premier -Victor Benoit, a leader of a pro-Aristide socialist party; and Sen. Julio Larosilliere. The trip was paid for by the U.S.-fund­ed Center For Democracy and represents an effort to re­start stalled talks. But even one of those on the trip, Chamber of Deputies president Frantz Robert Monde, said Monday he went to Washington only to demand an end to the international fuel embargo on Haiti -not to talk about a new premier. 
Gary fights 'murder capital' tag 
GARY 

When your decaying hometown is known as the dead­liest place in an increasingly dangerous nation, what do you say in its defense? You can point to the past, to the nostalgic "Gary, Indiana, my home, sweet home" from "The Music Man." You can point to the future, and hopes that riverboat gambling will end two decades of socioeco­nomic free fall. Or, as many long-time residents do, you can shrug your shoulders. No one denies that Gary has the highest murder rate in America. "When they say somebody died and you go check it, there's a body there. That's real, so we're not in denial as a community," said Councilman Chuck Hughes, chairman of the City Council's Public Safety Committee. "But it would be sort of a miscarriage of justice if people believed that this is a Roaring '20s, Wild, Wild West town without all of the other fine things that go on in other communities. It's just not true." Gary once was a liveable city, and its people are struggling to make it a liveable city once again. 



News Corinne Doran Liz Foran Sports Bryan Connolly Viewpoint Jason Thomas Lab Tech T.J. Harris 

Production John Rock Kathie Young Accent Mara Davis Graphics Chris Weirup Business Micahel Martin David Clairmont 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

------------~-------------------~--­
Tuesday, February 8, 1994 


Officials urge landlords to accept rent vouchers 
By SONYA ROSS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Federal housing officials plan to meet this week with Los An­geles landlords to encourage them to accept federal rent vouchers from earthquake vic­tims -and remind them of the penalties if they don't. 
The Department of Housing and Urban Development has received more than 200 com­plaints from quake victims who say landlords are asking for extra deposits or rejecting the vouchers, which provide rent subsidy through the Section 8 program. 
HUD officials will meet with landlords Saturday in the San Fernando Valley, to quell any apprehension they may have over signing on to a federal housing program, Housing Secretary Henry Cisneros said Monday. 
Cisneros said he sensed that landlords are more concerned about the consequences of ac­cepting federal vouchers than they are with discrimination. 
Still, he said, "we're beefing up our anti-discrimination ef­forts beyond words" to dis­courage mistreatment of mi­norities or poor people left homeless by the Jan. 17 earth­quake. 
"We have some anecdotal ev­idence of people coming back and saying their voucher, or their certificate, was not ac­cepted," Cisneros said. "Perhaps it's the fact that they have a number of children .. .or perhaps because they are Hispanic and poor in appear­ance." 
HUD officials have distributed 12,804 certificates for 18 months of subsidized housing, but only 2,372 families have leases and only 618 have moved into their new homes. 
Cisneros said HUD would work with landlords to be flexi­ble with some federal require­ments, such as applying aid to individual apartments, rather than whole buildings, or waiv­ing a rule that requires land­lords to give subsidized tenants 90 days' notice before eviction. 
The Observer • NEWS page3 

1 ., 14" Large Cheese Pizza 
Thanks for your patience during our "Under the Weather" week of January 14, 21. Louisville was "shut down" and our trucks 

00 

couldn't get to us. 
So enjoy ... 

(additional toppings 95¢) 




Beat The Clock Tuesday!rT\ 
5:00p.m... 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday \..._y Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 
Offer Good




271~ 1177 
The Most Popular N~ Thru on Campus! 4.. 13..94 
Louie's Tux Shop representatives assist students who are renting out tuxedos for the senior class formal. Formal bids are available today in Theodore's in LaFortune. 
CLC tries for more 24 hour areas 
ByKARASPAK 
News Writer 
Increased student need for both study and social 24-hour 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
space fueled discussion at last night's meeting of the Campus Life Council. 
Student Body Vice President Nikki Wellman presented rmd­ings by a special committee comprised of students, faculty and other staff formed specifi­cally for a council report on 24­hour space. 
Wellman's committee cited numbers concerning a drop in student need for 24-hour space after 3 a.m. Based on these fig­ures, the committee attempted to find an area that would facil­itate the students for an extra hour past 2 a.m. when LaFortune closes and weekend parietals begin. 
Originally Wellman and Stu­dent Body President Frank Flynn wanted the LaFortune Ballroom to be open later into the night, but the ballroom is booked solid every weekday and weekend night until the end of the year, and cannot facilitate the request. 
The committee decided to try keeping the entire first floor of 

Madame Bovary Tuesday 9:00 

Cushing~
sn:ce:--.-r c~1o~ 90 . .loit!.: 

The Third Annual Breen-Phillips Hall 

Wednesday, February 9. 1994 La Fortune Ballroom 7 pm to 2 am 
Free admission--Donations accepted 
8 Starring Judy Hutchinson 8 
All proceeds go to the Catholic Wort.er House 
LaFortune open, including the Fast Break section of the hud­dle. 
Monday, Feb. 21, is the planned date for the longer hours at LaFortune, with free food and movies being offered as promotional incentives for students to come and use the space. 
"We think it's a good start," said Wellman, "and hope next year to see the ballroom open." 
Wellman encourages anyone with input with regards to the 24-hour space to call her at 1­4554 or 4-3477. 
The Hall President's Council Resolution regarding increased need for security on campus was postponed till the next meeting of the Council when security officers will meet with the council to discuss feasibility of the HPC proposals. 
The Campus Life Council meets again on Monday, Feb. 21. 

--------~-~------~-------------~---------------, 
page4 Tuesday, February 8, 1994 
Elections Lecture 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 
ued. cated by Israel for its so-called 
Neither the King!Lefort ticket agricultural needs," Gordan nor the Coughlin/Capua ticket stated. Yet, only ten percent of endorsed anyone for the the land is actually used to runoff. meet those agricultural needs. 
"We want to thank everyone . In fact, according to Gordan, ..and we wish the two tickets Rabin refuses to even discuss the best of luck," said King. the possibility of allowing 
"We hope we get front row Palestinians to occupy the re­seats at the concert next year," maining unused land. said Capua. "I want tomorrow for Israel 
to give the West Bank and the 
Campaigning for the runoff Gaza Strip to the Palestinians. I began today at 12:01 a.m., and just want democracy and will end at 11:59 p.m. tonight. respect for human rights." Students can vote tomorrow in "We are forging peace which their dorms between 11 a.m. will be around for decades, and 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. and 7 maybe even generations. We 
p.m. Off-campus students can are forging it for generations to cast their votes at the LaFor­come. We feel we should do it, tune information desk during we must do it, and we will con­those same times. tinue to do it." ---------------------------t~h-r_e_e_e_n_d~o-r-se_m__e_n~ts~to~b-e_c_o_n--­
CAMPUS BRIEF
5enate sidered important enough to be 
heard by the administration," 
Flynn said. "The administration
continued from page 1 
likes to see CLC as the one com­munication channel." 
they would address. 
School trustees have asked to"Before I vote for this I would discuss these issues. 
want to know which issues they would address," said student 
In other Senate news, Ad­
senator Jennifer Halbach. 
works, Irish Gardens and ND"It (the group) is definitely Video are doing well, according left-wing," said student senator to Business Manager KristieErin King. 
Shafer. "The last day to order flowers 
Senators voiced concerns that for Valentine's Day is Fridaythe group might endorse issues and this weekend is a big dance 
like abortion or ideas going 
weekend," Shafer said. 
against DuLac. 
As a reminder, the ForeignStudent senators voted unan­Film Festival, Winter Fest andimously not to decide on the is­the Sophomore Literary Festival sue until more information had all begin this week. 
been gathered. 


Another concern brought to Student Senate involved the dif­ficulties of empowering stu­dents through Campus Life Council and the lack of com­munication between students and the administration. 
"There is a major lack of communication, said student senator Ellen Zahren. "The stu­dents deserve an answer." 
Issues addressed to Student 
Senate, HPC and Campus Life 
Council are still not getting to 
the administration, according to 
Student Body President Frank 
Flynn. 
"An issue has to pass through 
ltift IRS SFaiN6 lliEtl Bl[tf





SPRING 
EElK
COMPLETE FIVE & SEVEN NIGHT TRIPS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH 
LAS VEGAS VAIL/BEAVER CREEK ORLANDO/DISNEY WORLD MUSTANG ISLAND HILTON HEAD ISLAND BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
"l'fJI'flllt*~OIDQimATOI/IIIfAIDoiTU/lDI&THOflllf 
Ftll AIJIITIONAI. rfiiii'MTII1I I IIESBIVmJNS 
II•BOO•SUNCHASEI
• 
OLDE, America's Full Service Discount Broker5M is looking for motivated people to establish a career in the brokerage business. 
OLDE offers: 12-18 month paid training program Potential six-figure income Excellent benefits 
If you possess excellent communication skills, general market knowledge and the desire to excel, sign up for an on-campus interview on February 16, 1994 in the Career Center. 
If you are unable to arrange an interview call: 
1 800 937-0606 
or send resume to: OLDE Discount Stockbrokers Natiom11 Recruiting 751 Gnswold Street Detroit. MI 4822f. 


~OLDE 
DISCOUNT STOCKBROKERS 
Member NYSE and SIPC 
An Equal Opportunity Employw 

KAPLAN 
The answer to tho test question 
-------~-----------------~-----­
Tuesday, February 8, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS pageS 
Jury outlines procedure for Packwood diary transfer 

On Jan. 24, Jackson ordered inal probe of the job offers. transcripts were altered. Packwood to obey the sub­Jackson's order did not men­The committee last year in­poena. The senator's lawyer, tion a Justice Department's formed the court of the possible Jacob Stein, said he would ap­subpoena for the diaries. alteration, after inte·rviewingpeal on grounds that the sub­the woman who transcribed the 
poena violated Packwood's con­Jackson established a proce­diary tapes for Packwood. stitutional right to privacy and dure that would transfer the di­The committee said it be­his right against elf-incrim­aries to the FBI for copying, lieved Packwood altered the ination. and place the materials under materials because he expected
The Jan. 24 order didn't im­supervision of a special master, they would be subpoenaed. 
mediately transfer the diaries former U.S. Solicitor General "No subpoenaed material, to the committee. Monday's or­and federal appellate judge nor any forensic report ...shall der outlined the procedures for Kenneth Starr. be delivered to the committee the transfer. while allowing the Starr will have authority to by Mr. Starr before the 15th 15-day delay so Packwood can delete attorney-client, family day following the filing of this 
take his case to the U.S. Court and medical entries and review order ..." Jackson wrote. 
of Appeals. materials placed in those cate­He also ordered Starr to givePackwood could face criminal gories by Packwood. He also Packwood at least 24 hours no­charges, since the Justice De­will supervise tests to deter­tice in writing before any mate­
partment is conducting a crim-mine whether the tapes and rials go to the committee. 

Clinton hopeful for programs 
ByNANCYBENAC His next stop was a visit to Democratic Party and promote Associated Press the Johnson Space Center, even his domestic agenda. as his budget requests a small Looming over him throughout HOUSTON $250 million reduction in NASA the trip has been the latest 
President Clinton pitched his spending. bloodshed in Bosnia, where a budget request to America on The president is trying to weekend mortar attack that Monday by dangling hopes of blunt Republican complaints killed more than 60 people led better crime, education and job that he shouldn't use money to renewed calls for NATO air training programs in return for saved in one program to in­strikes. spending cuts elsewhere. crease spending elsewhere. He Clinton has been consulting 
"If we don't do it, we can't coupled his defense of the new with advisers in Washington by keep the economy going in the budget request with a call for telephone. He expressed sup­right direction, and we won't bipartisan cooperation on a port for a proposal by U.N. Sec­have any money to spend on health care reform plan. retary-General Boutros the things that 90 percent of Boutros-Ghali allowing NATO you think we should spend Despite recent progress in to authorize military retaliation more money on," he said. holding down the growth of for attacks on Muslim civilians 
Unveiling his new $1.5 trillion federal spending, Clinton ar­in Sarajevo. spending plan during a three­gued, there will be "no ultimate Stressing the need for a ne­day Southern swing, Clinton solution to the federal deficit" gotiated settlement to the war avoided mentioning specific without reining in Medicare in the former Yugoslavia, Clin­programs that would be elimi­and Medicaid budgets through ton said, "until those folks get nated or pared down, focusing health care reform. tired of killing each other over instead on the sweeter side of He insisted his plan would there, bad things will continue the equation. give consumers more choices in to happen." 
"If we do it, we can keep the their health coverage than In his speech to the Houston recovery going," he told the would rival plans, and would do business group, Clinton ticked Greater Houston Partnership, a more to ensure all Americans off a list of appealing areas business group. get the basic care they need. where spending would increase 
"We can also fmd the money Clinton's budget pitch came in his new budget: crime-fight­we need to invest in some midway through a three-day ing initiatives, job training, things that I think are impor­trip to Texas and Louisiana de­Head Start for children, high­tant." signed to raise money for the ways and education reforms. 
By lARRY MARGASAK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A federal judge set in motion the transfer of Sen. Bob Pack­wood's diaries to the Senate Ethics Committee, but allowed 15 days for the senator to chal­lenge the order. 
U.S. District Judge Thomas Jackson, in addition to the 15­day delay, ordered Monday that Packwood receive at least 24 hours notice before the audio tapes and transcripts are _deliv­ered to the committee. 
The panel is investigating al­legations of sexual misconduct, witness intimidation and ob-
SECURITY BRIEF 
struction of the inquiry by the Oregon Republic.an. 
The committee subpoenaed the diaries last Oct. 20, after entries showed lobbyists and businessmen offered the sena­tor's wife a job while the Pack­woods were going through a divorce. 
Packwood, who had provided diary entries until the discov­ery, then cut off access to ma­terials from 1989 to the pre­sent. 
The committee responded with the subpoena, saying the diaries were necessary to de­termine whether the probe should be expanded. 
A VALENTINE MESSAGE ON VALENTINES DAY FOR $20.00 
The ad would be this size and must be submitted by 1:00 p.m. on Thursday, Feb. 10 to the advertising department for The Observer (Jrdjloor LaFortune) 

Forfurther information, call631~900 

BERE COME TBE AMIBB 
A FIRESIDE CHAT 
Come leam aboutthe Anabaptist historyand cutture. Gain a nevv perspecWe on the comp:ment6 ofthe Anabaptist religions -the Mennonttes, the Amish, and the Hutterites 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10 • 12:15-1:00PM NOTRE DAME RooM • LAFoRTUNE 
Authentic Amish Lunch Provided 

BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE MULTICULTURAL ExEcUTIVE CouNCIL 
Office of Multicultural Affairs and B. C. A. F. proudly present: 
Dr. Debbye Turner 
"1990 Miss America" 

11Excellence in Life's Pursuits: Remembering Community Responsibility" 
Wednesday, February 9, 1994 7:00p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium Reception to follow in Library Lounge 

.-------------------------------------------------~-.--------~---------------~ -----~------------------------------------------------­
The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February 8, 1994 

Villagers may hold U.S. remains 
By GEORGE ESPER 
Associated Press 
HANOI, Vietnam 
Villagers may be holding the remains of Americans lost in the Vietnam War, or at least know about them, but Hanoi is no longer keeping them for po­litical leverage, a U.S. official said Monday. 
Army Lt. Col. John Cray said some of the 12 sets of remains believed to be those of Ameri­cans that Hanoi gave to the United States on Monday were turned in by villagers. 
The latest repatriation cere­mony at Hanoi's Noi Bai Airport came four days after President Clinton lifted a 19-year trade embargo against Vietnam. Cray, head of the MIA office in Hanoi, said the ceremony had been planned three months ago to coincide with the completion of two major search operations in December and January. 
Just the same, Cray acknowl­edged the significance of the ceremony. 
"This is the flrst repatriation ceremony since the embargo has been lifted," he said. "I think that instead of hurting, it will in fact enhance our pro­cess." 
President Clinton had made 
CORRECTION 
A photo that ran in yester­day's Observer incorrectly identified the speaker. The woman pictured was Elaine Hedges. The Observer regrets the error. 
the lifting of the embargo con­tingent on Hanoi's cooperation and progress ill' the fullest pos­sible accounting of those miss­ing since the Vietnam War. 
U.S. veterans groups and families of MIAs opposed the end of the embargo, saying the United States would lose its leverage in forcing Vietnam to cooperate in accounting for the 2,238 American MIAs. 
They charged that Hanoi was holding back remains to ad­vance its political agenda. Viet­nam also seeks a resumption of diplomatic relations. 
"We have no evidence that they're holding any warehouse full of remains as occurred in the past," said Cray. "Are there some Vietnamese villagers scat­tered throughout the provinces that may have individual sets or have knowledge of where American remains might be. Yes, I believe that. 
"And in fact, we find that each time we have a large joint fleld activity and we reach to 
18! 

Va/Bntlne Specials 8.• + up 
Matemowski's 272-()970 103 Dixie way/Us 31-1/2 mi. Nof Campus 
the outer edges of some of the provinces, the people come for­ward and either turn over remains or guide us to where they think they recall many years ago a burial site. That's part of how we came to recov­ering these remains." 
Addressing concerns by the families of the MIAs and the veterans groups, Cray said the 
U.S. pressure has not let up. 
"We're going to continue to work as hard as we can ...to make greater progress and continue to provide answers to the families that have waited so long," he said. 
Cray said that since the end of the embargo, the Vietnamese have shown their commitment to the fullest possible account­ing, and over the weekend made plans to join more than 100 Americans on another search operation beginning Feb. 26. mVllliiA "1l1ta. tG. i:ll, 1• 1:21 llfiiiWIII M 11'11: 1•,._5:1i, 7:15, t15 II.Bit.1:45.42, 7:31,11:11 ...,u .."1l1:15. 4:1i, t45,1;11 •ru!PCl:1t1i, ta. 5:15. 7:JI.t.G 1'IUIIII1IA "121: 1:31. t45, J:li, t45 
•...af"111:t15.7:15,t45 ~AI·IBE 11'11: 4;a, 7•• t,a IAYifi ..I"1JI:5••7:JI,11:11 


Madame Bovary Tuesday 9:00 

I I 



Cushing 
STI.1lEYf t::-olON BOARD 

Jil{{proceeds wi[[go to tfie :Mara j'o;r_ Scftofarsliip j'und 
,_r.: ~ ~ ,-~ :·r;-c rL-rrcl 
Once ztpon a time... 
Kevin Costner, Julia Roberts, Robin Williams, and Robin Wright ...Brought your favorite Fairy Tales to life in: 
8:00 pm Robin Hood 
10: 15 pm Pretty Woman 
12:15 am Aladdin 
1:45 am The Princess Bride 
Friday, February Ilin the LaFortune Ballroom FREE REFRESHMENTS 
It''s a FUN and FREE night with a 
HAPPY ENDING! 


ilti,IJIII,!,r,t:l•1~1.'l'•'•'J::t;l:l:f,t.r,•.llP,~.·-·.':1:1.-' .•. 'l.l'.i .. ,., • • f • (1/lll:'. ·'·'·' f.t:f.t,.·.f/i'•'••'t!.• ... ~.'.'.','.'.'.'a 
Tuesday, February 8, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NE\VS page? 




Georgian convicted of murder French officials block 
By LIAM MCDOWALL Associated Press 
TBILISI, Georgia 
A court convicted a 21-year­old former soldier and sen­tenced him Monday to 15 years of hard labor for shooting to death Fred Woodruff, report­edly the CIA's station chief in Georgia. 
The case has focused interna­tional attention on a quiet U.S. effort to train guards for embattled Georgian leader Eduard Shevardnadze, who has faced a series of armed rebel­lions and lawlessness. 
Anzor Sharmaidze initially admitted he shot Woodruff on a crime-plagued stretch of road outside Tbilisi last Aug. 8. But he later retracted the confes­sion, saying it was made under torture. 
Chief Judge Jamal Leonidze said Monday that the three­judge criminal court found Sharmaidze's testimony "unre­liable" and gave him 15 years of hard labor, the maximum prison term under Georgian law. 
He could have received the death penalty. Investigators believe 
Woodruffs murder was ran­dom and not politically moti­vated. 
Sharmaidze, wearing a large black anorak that partially cov­ered his face, stood impassively while Leonidze read the 20­minute verdict and sentence. Six soldiers with Kalashnikovs stood guarded him. 
Sharmaidze was also con­victed of illegal possession of a weapon and an unrelated charge of house burglary. 
U.S. Vice Consul Lynn Whit­lock, who attended Monday's session, declined to comment. The U.S. government provided forensic assistance in the mur­der investigation, but kept a low profile at the trial, which began Dec. 30. 
Woodruff, 45, of Herndon, Va., officially was identified as a regional affairs officer posted temporarily in the political sec­tion of the U.S. Embassy in Tbilisi. 
U.S. newspapers reported, however, that he was a senior CIA operative and the intelli­gence agency's station chief in Georgia, a former Soviet repub­lic of 5.5 million people. 
The U.S. government has tried to help Shevardnadze, a former Soviet foreign minister who is perceived as a pro­Western leader committed to democratic reforms in a volatile region. 
Woodruff was killed by a sin­gle bullet fired from a AK-47 assault rifle at the jeep he was traveling. The car, which had government license plates, was driven by the head of Shevard­nadze's personal guards. 
The two men, accompanied by two women, had been sight­seeing in the Caucasus Moun­tains. 
They were returning to Tbilisi when the car came un­der fire near the village of Natakhtari, about 15 miles northwest of the capital. 
Within 90 minutes of the shooting, Sharmaidze was seized when he asked for gaso­line from police at a road block about 500 yards from the spot where the gun was frred. 
Sharmaidze initially testified he had frred wildly at Woodruf­fs car because it failed to stop when he tried to flag it down to request gasoline, in chronic short supply in Georgia. 
Later in the trial, Sharmaidze denied firing at the car, and said he had confessed under pressure. 



Wednesday 
is the last day to turn in your $10.00 deposit for the 
Junior Class Ski Trip to Bittersweet! 
Turn in money to the Junior Class Office. 

in the Hesburgh Library at pm, reception to follow featured in the 1994 festival: 
•
Michael Harper (Sun. 2/13) 

•June 
Jordan (Mon. 2/14) 

•
Alison Lurie* (Tues. 2/15) 

•Charles 
Johnson (Wed. 2/16) 

•Joy 
Harjo (Thurs. 2/17) 


*Frank Deford has been rescheduled for 4/13/94 

import of fish from U.S. 
By CHRISTOPHER BURNS Associated Press 
PARIS 
Customs officers blocked about 50 tons of fish imports ­half from the United States ­from entering France on Mon­day in what exporters say is an attempt to appease fishermen angered over cheap imports. 
Lengthy tests were ordered on the fish, destroying any chance it will be sold before rotting, said David Lennarz, European export manager for the US-based International Seafood Distributors. 
"It's clearly in retaliation against foreign imports to show a little support for the fisher­men," said Lennarz. 
Over the past week, French fishermen have staged a na­tionwide strike to protest cheap imports they say are driving them out of business. They have sacked the main Paris fish market, blocked ports, de­stroyed several dozen tons of foreign fish and battled with riot police in a half-dozen towns. 
The protests forced the con­servative government of Prime Minister Edouard Balladur to boost aid to the fishing indus­try. But the $50 million Bal­ladur promised last week failed to end the unrest. 
Earlier Monday, French fish­ermen dumped hundreds of pounds of frozen imported fish and voted to keep their boats out of the Atlantic for at least three more days to pressure the government. 
In an apparent attempt to ap­pease the fishermen, French customs officials put three tons of International Seafood's dog­fish, worth $15,000, on hold at a non-refrigerated warehouse, Lennarz said. The firm can­celed a shipment of six more tons. 
Lennarz said about 50 tons total of fish imports was being held at airports. The figure could not be immediately veri­fied, and French officials were unavailable for comment. 
About 25 tons of the fish, in­cluding monkfish and lobster, was from the United States, Lennarz said. Fish from Asia and South Africa were also held. Lennarz estimated that 
U.S. exporters ship 10 to 20 tons of fresh fish to France a day. 
The blockage follows the gov­ernment's orders last week for customs officers to closely in­spect all imported fiSh for qual­ity, packaging and transport norms, which can delay bring­ing the fish to market. The measures cut imports without introducing specific quotas. 
"We've stopped all shipments today to Charles de Gaulle" air­port, said Mary Donahue of Wanchese International, in New Bedford, Mass. "We had to. It's creating a mess for all of us." 
Wanchese has about five tons of dogfish backs worth $16,500 shipped Saturday to the Paris airport waiting to be tested. 
At least 100 fiShermen in La Rochelle threw open the doors of three frozen distributors, destroying the fish or handing it out free. 


page 8 The Observer ·INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Japan and Russia talking peace 
By ERIC TALMADGE 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 
Northern Territories Day tra­ditionally has been an occasion for the Japanese to shake their fists and demand Russia return several tiny islands captured at the end of World War II. 
~But this year, the message to Moscow was decidedly polite. 
"Let's Be Friends," read one banner in both Russian and Japanese at a rally Monday. "Let's Talk," said another. 
The lighter tone reflects a gradual shift in Tokyo's policy toward the dispute, which has kept relations between Japan and Russia chilly and blocked the signing of a peace treaty to formally end their World War II hostilities. 
"We can't just keep repeating our demand the islands be re­turned anymore," said Fumio Kitayama, a labor leader who visited three of the islands last fall. "Stubbornness won't get us anywhere." 
The disputed islands at the southern end of the Kuril chain between Russia's Far East and Japan's Hokkaido island, were seized by the Soviet Red Army after Japan's surrender to the Allies in 1945. 
Thousands of Japanese who lived on the islands -Ku­nashiri, Etorofu, Shikotan and the Habomai islets -.were forced to leave. Today about 50,000 Russians, including sev­eral thousand military troops. call the southern Kurils home. 
The Japanese claim the is­lands are theirs, noting a treaty signed with Russia on Feb. 7, 1855, that placed them within Japan's border. The Soviet rulers refused to recognize that treaty. 
In the icier years of the Cold War, Japan forbade private vis­its to the islands out of fear that such contact might be seen as recognition of Soviet control. 
That policy began to ease with the rise of Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. Ties have continued to expand under Russian President Boris Yeltsin. 
But, like Gorbachev, Yeltsin faces considerable opposition at home to the idea of giving up territory and has shown little interest in turning over the is­lands. 
Instead, Yeltsin has urged closer cultural and business exchanges. 
"It is truly regrettable that the islands -our territory ­have yet to be returned," Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa said at Monday's rally of about 1,500 politicians and citizens. 

Israeli jets strike guerrilla bases 
By BUTROS WANNA 
Associated Press 
MARJAYOUN, Lebanon 
Guerrillas killed four Israeli soldiers and wounded five in an ambush Monday that drew re­taliatory air and artillery strikes. 
There was no immediate word on casualties among the guerrillas. 
The Israeli military command acknowledged the attack on its soldiers and the fatalities, the first Israelis killed in Lebanon in almost two months. It said in a statement that five soldiers also were wounded in the con­frontation between its troops and "a terrorist force" and were evacuated by helicopter to Israel. 
Security sources in Lebanon had put the number of wound­ed at three. 
The Israeli military also said its jets attacked "Hezbollah ter­rorist targets" and scored "accurate hits" after the am­bush in Israeli-occupied south Lebanon. 
The Iranian-backed Hezbol­lah said its fighters carried out 
Vnknri""' S,rtcinls • 

Cor~ 
~on the Avenue Flrnl & PDStrJ ~" 
2226 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN -46615 
(219) 287,2955 
the ambush in remembrance of their leader. Sheik Abbas Musawi, killed Feb. 16, 1992, in an Israeli helicopter raid. 
Lebanese security sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Israeli fighter­bombers carried out three raids against Shiite guerrillas just north of Israel's self-styled "security zone" shortly after the ambush. 
From the market town of Nabatiyeh, Associated Press reporters could see guerrillas firing anti-aircraft weapons against the Israeli jets. No hits were observed. 
The stricken region is two miles northwest of Sojod, a vil­lage in the central sector of the security zone, where the Israeli armored patrol was ambushed two hours earlier. 
The security sources said the Israelis were attacked by guer­rillas firing rocket-propelled grenades and machine guns. 
Israeli helicopters later flew over the area, apparently to pick up the casualties. 
The sources said three Is­raelis were killed instantly and four were wounded. One of the 
,-----------------, 
:  A Cm1iJly )'pnExclusive  :  
:  EROS  :  
:  BAILCXJN BOKAY  :  
I  1Mybr.6Lotcx  I  
I  .-hod "' 2picca rL o...1: Doldna  I  
: 1  $12.99 C/C or <f'l'Y.tU JJiwry ooly  : 1  

,E~~~~~~---~~~~~J 
FREE Delivery of anything with prepayment by 2/1 0/94! 

E~RESS 
Have management experience? Retail experience? 
SHIFT MANAGER POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
For Football Season, Fall 1994 Apply at LaFortune Information Desk by February 18. 
The reported Israeli fatalities were the first in south Lebanon since Dec. 10, when an officer was killed after his tank was hit by a rocket. 
NEW DAIRY QUEEN BRAZIER 
1817~ St. Rd. 2~ Near Martin1s Shopping Plaza 
Part-time positions available 
Call 271-1102 

Seniors, 
Come on Down••• 



to Senior Bar 
for a chance to win these fabulous prizes! 
1
. A trip to Mardi Gras-includes plane, hotel, and spending money. 

2. 
Senior Formal package-includes second city, ticket, hotel, and spending money 

3. 
Four movie passes 

4. 
Dinner for four at Macri's 

5. 
Brunch for two at Tippecanoe 


... and many other prizes including Rocco's, C.j. 's, and others. 
join Bob and his Beauties on Wednesday, Feb. 9 at Senior Bar. The cost is $1°0 per raffle ticket. The games will begin at 11:00 p.m. 


BUSINESS 
Tuesday, February 8, 1994 page9 
Tax assistance program helps needy 
BUSINESS FORUM 
The journey to the future 
•
conttnues 
Last Friday, newspaper-------­headlines across the nation featured Vietnam, but not for the reasons to which we have become accustomed. 
Instead of remembrances of war we read rosy predic­tions of the new world order which Vietnam had finally been asked to join. The invitation to the world's Michael Martin version of the Big Party Business Editor came in the form of the lifting of the U.S. trade embargo. 
This represents neither the end nor the begin­ning of a chapter in world affairs. Rather it is the continuation of a process that has provided sweeping change over the past half century. 
The war in southeast Asia was the epitome o the Cold War struggle between the two super­powers. Both the Soviet Union and the United States were characterized by their huge influence abroad and the equally huge distrust they held for each other. In Vietnam these factors led to a war of containment, a nebulous concept that left nearly all involved disillusioned with their government and their world. 
Now the focus has turned to the economic side of things. If you had told a teenager from France in 1944 that in fifty years France and Germany would be joining together in a unified European common market, you would either be laughed at or locked up, depending on their sense of humor. Yet here we are, in their lifetime, with Europe aligning itself in just that way. 
Economic integration has become the path o the future, and no business can escape its influ­ence. Companies have gradually become more internationalized, nations have entered into trade alliances (witness NAFTA), and economies have become truly global in scope. 
As R.W. Apple, Jr. of the New York Times put it, "Slowly, almost imperceptibly, Vietnam has turned from a tragedy into an opportunity." 
Coca-Cola products, long sold on the Vietnamese black market, will now be enjoyed legally. American Express is on the brink o completing a deal with the Vietnamese govern­ment that would allow the credit ca~d to be ac­cepted in the country. 
With more economic integration, there comes a 
mutual interdependence, and with that comes the 
end of the "us vs. them" mindset. Suddenly, we 
fmd ourselves working together and trading with 
a nation where American men were dying twenty 
years ago. 
Peace through interdependence; that is the new ordering principle of world relations. No longer will peace depend on two nations with unfath­omably large nuclear arsenals pointed at each other. 
Peace through business. This is not a new world order; there is too much change and in­stability for that. It is more like a new world · ourney, with steps taken every time nations co­operate and build on their relations, both eco­nomic and political. 
Vietnam, once restricted to network newsreels, has now become a place where you drink Diet Coke just for the taste of it and you shouldn't leave home without your American Express card. Once our foe, now our customer. And the world moves on toward new hopes and new futures. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 

ByJOHNZACH 
Business Writer 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 23rd annual Tax Assistance Program will be aiding many people in the South Bend area over the next two and a half months. 
The volunteers for the program consist of 70 Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's students along with 40 to 60 faculty mem­bers from both the College of Business Administration 
and  the  Law  
School, and  local  
C.P.A.s.  


The work time Ken Milani is all donated and the goal of the program is to pro­vide low-income tax payers free assistance on their tax returns, said Professor Ken Milani, the program's coordinator. 
Last year, the Tax Assistance Program filed more than 1, 700 tax returns for around 1,000 Michiana residents. There are currently 11 sites in the South Bend area where residents can go to receive help with their Indiana and federal income tax returns. In order to qualify for free assistance, the person must have an income of less than $25,000, said Professor Milani. 
The Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­dents in the program must have taken an Introductory Tax course along with a 3 week training course put together by Milani in order to participate. 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Tax Assistance Program was founded in 1972 by two law students. When 
Clinton tames budget deficit by slashing domestic programs 

ByALANFRAM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton presented a $1.52 trillion budget for 1995 to Congress today that would pare hundreds of programs and drive federal deficits to their lowest level in six years. As promised, he would raise tobacco taxes to help finance his plan to revamp the nation's health-care sys­tem. 
"It's the toughest budget on spend­ing cuts that Congress has yet seen," Clinton told a business group in Houston. He sltid the budget must pass without major change to further economic growth. 
Unlike his first budget a year ago, Clinton unveiled no sweeping new policy overhauls for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. 
Instead, the president proposed savings required by the near $500 billion deficit-reduction plan he out­lined last year and congressional Democrats passed last summer. He would use some of the savings for highway construction, the Head Start program for poor pre-school children, and dozens of other programs he says will help the economy grow. 
But because of the snug spending ceilings imposed by last year's deficit­reduction package, Clinton would pay for those increases by eliminating a weather office in Samoa and 114 other small programs, and by holding hundreds of other programs at or below this year's spending. 
"We have ended drift and broken the gridlock of the past," Clinton wrote in a message accompanying the four-volume spending plan. "A Congress and a president are finally working together to confront our country's problems." 
Republicans welcomed the cuts Clinton proposed, but chastised him for using some of the savings to beef up other programs. 
"They aren't really reducing the deficit because the savings don't get applied to the deficit. The savings make room for other spending," said Sen. Pete Domenici of New Mexico, ranking Republican on the Senate 
President Clinton unveiled his $1.5 tril­lion budget which he called "the tough­est budget on spending cuts that Congress has yet seen." 
in revenues. 
"Keeping deficits on a-downward track we think is essential for the eco­nomic recovery" White House budget director Leon Panetta said at a brief­ing. 
But the red ink swings upward again at decade's end, hitting $201.2 billion in 1999, without the enact­ment of Clinton's No. 1 priority for this year: a revamping of the coun­try's health-care system. If that initia­tive is enacted, Clinton projects next year's deficit would sink to $165.1 billion, and the 1999 shortfall would be $181.1 billion. 
"Enactment of health care reform, with its focus on controlling health care costs, is the key to making even greater progress on deficits," Clinton wrote. 
To finance his health-care plan, Clinton would boost the 24-cent-a­pack tax on cigarettes to 99 cents, bringing in $67 billion over the next six years. He also would save $118 billion from Medicare by slicing reim­bursements to hospitals and doctors and making benefits more expensive for many of its elderly beneficiaries. Medicaid payments to the states would be trimmed by $61 billion. 
they left, Professor Ken Milani de­cided to take it over. 
"When the two grad students left, I meant to take the program over for one more year, but it has turned into 23 more years," said Milani of his leadership role in the program. 
"What struck me this year is that during the three weeks of training for the program, I realized that mpst of the people working in it this year hadn't been alive when it was found­ed," he continued. 
Two of the eleven locations are now on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. One is located in the Center for Social Concerns at Notre Dame and the other is at the Haggar Center at Saint Mary's. 
"Each year the program has grown; I'm sure it will keep on doing so," said Milani, reflecting on the tax season that awaits. 

,-----------------------, Budget Committee. Thanks to a robust economy and 
But the spending plan does not
last summer's deficit-cutting package, include one of the biggest chunks ofthe president projects next year's the Clinton plan: the payments indi­shortfall at $176.1 billion, the best 
viduals would make to the new
showing since the $152.5 billion gap regional alliances that would admin­of 1989. That is also $126 billion less ister most of the health-care system.
than Clinton had expected for 1995 Critics say these payments should bejust one year ago. The government included in the budget as history'swould spend $1.518.3 trillion next biggest tax increase. 
year while collecting $1.342.2 trillion 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, February 8, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Cbld"  
David Kinney  ------­ -­ 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Kevin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  

News Editor ................ Meredidt McCuUough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ..................... .Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser A=nt Editor ......................... KenyaJohoson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Bardt Photo Editor ...••............................ Jakt: Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ........•.... Jennifer Habrych ConrroUer .........................•.....•....... Mark Meenan 
The ObseiVer· is dte independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of None Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoUege. ·It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either inscirucion. The news is reponed as w:urarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editot, Photo Editor, Sports Editor,_ and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lctrers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the None Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to aU readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Edi10r-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoim 631-4541 Day Edi10r/Producrion 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spom 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

'Feminist bias' discriminates against John Bobbitt 

When  a  person has been  occurred; hence I see this out­ out on Friday. this would mean  her husband's penis." I cannot  is no less invidious than dis­ 
murdered, there is usually a  come as eminently correct.  that logically,  a  thief could  agree. I will admit that there is  crimination against any other  
body;  when  someone  has  However, even if I did not, I  have his hands cut off, and a  only one person of whom I am  group which is based solely on  
stolen, there is often physical  could not justify the broad as­ verbally suggestive employer  aware who has ever resorted to  some happenstance character­ 
evidence of the theft. In con­ sertion that "(t)here is not a  could have his tongue removed.  this barbaric tactic, that being  istic, and I cannot support it.  
trast, when a woman claims  fragment of Lorena Bobbitt that  But why stop even there? As  Lorena Bobbitt, but I think that  The evidence presented in the  
she has been raped, the evi­ has not been raped now." For  someone who is deeply-con­ there is more than one explana­ trial  against  John  Wayne  
dence often comes down to the  the jury found, and I believe it  cerned about justice for all peo­ tion for her act.  Bobbitt was insufficient to show  
alleged perpetrator's word  found  correctly,  that John  ple, I have discovered that  Perhaps the woman is a bit  that he committed any crime. It  
against that of the victim. That  Wayne Bobbitt did not abuse  sometimes the most powerful  insane. Perhaps she is an over­ did not convince me, the jury,  
is the nature of rape cases. and  his wife, and this means that he  weapon of injustice that one  ly-militant feminist who was  or anyone who has the ability to  
we cannot change that.  is entitled to the presumption of  human being can vent against  out to make a point. And of  view this case with an impartial  
his innocence.  another is one's mind, one's  course, it is possible (although I  eye. In contrast, I don't think  
By requiring proof beyond a  I am  also disturbed by the  heart, in essence, one's whole  don't  believe  it)  that  she  we could have asked for more  
reasonable doubt, our court  fact that Ms.  Santicola,  an  being.  wounded her husband both  concrete evidence of Lorena  
system has found it preferable,  opponent of the death penalty,  physically and emotionally be­ Bobbitt's wrong.  
and justly so, to risk setting a  makes the far-reaching state­ Imaginably this could lead to  cause he abused her. But this is  Even  if her  husband  did  
guilty person free than to pun­ ment that "(w)hen someone  the complete brainwashing, or  not the only plausible explana­ abuse her. her act still offends  
ish one who might be innocent.  commits a crime, the first step  even the killing, of certain indi­ tion; to state that it is overlooks  the legal principle that no one  
Our system of justice also­ on the path to justice is to take  viduals in our society. And be­ other possibilities.  should generally be her own  
rests on the axiom that an ac­ away their (sic) weapon." She  cause I, too, deplore the death  Finally, Ms. Santicola notes  judge; nemo jus sibi dicere  
cused is considered innocent  considers Lorena Bobbitt's act  penalty-indeed, I see it as com­ that rape can occur within mar­ potest. It was also simply cruel  
until  proven  guilty.  to fall within the ambit of this  pletely  inimical  to  our  riage. I agree. But I don't see  and unnecessary. "If you can­ 
Significantly,  John  Wayne  statement.  Constitutional mandates-I sim­ what  this  has  to  do  with  not understand, you do not de­ 
Bobbitt was acquitted of the  If indeed it does, where do we  ply cannot accept this woman's  whether indeed John Bobbitt,  serve a [man's] love."  
charges brought against him  draw the line? The implications  line of reasoning.  in particular, raped his wife, or  
for assaulting his wife.  of this pattern of reasoning  Ms. Santicola also contends  whether her manner of taking  Kristen Dunne is a third year  
Perhaps I am biased because  truly frighten  me.  As  Mr.  that "there is mi.ly one situation  the law into her own hands was  law student at Ntore Dame Law  
I do not believe that any abuse  Christopher Coppula pointed  in which a wife would cut off  appropriate. Whether rape can  School.  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  





ACCE-NT 

Tuesday, February 8, 1994 
Innocents (working) abroad 
Two Notre Dame seniors experience 
British job force 
By MARA DIVIS where his father works. He said that the company held a semi­
Assistant Accent Editor 
nar, where he learned about working in an oil plant in
If studying through Notre 
Dartford, a town east of
Dame's London program isn't London. Though he had already enough, how about interning in found a job, he needed help to one of Britain's own electric become legally able to work 
power plants or even pricing because of England's economi­lettuce heads in an English gro­cally troubled times, he added. cery? "We did have to go through 
Two seniors did exactly that BUNAC because (England's) last summer with the help of unemployment rate is about 10 British Universities' North per cent," he said. "The reason American Club (BUNAC), which I got my job was because I helps college students interest­dropped a couple of names." ed in working in the British Isles to secure jobs, housing, Morella and his roommate and working status. senior Kevin Harris settled 
Although BUNAC did not help their legal and housing status, senior Tim Morella and his although Harris did not have a roommate, Kevin Harris, in job before arriving in England. their international job searches, Once in Dartford, legally autho­it helped them get the "blue rized to work, he tackled the card," a special student work­job search by looking through ing permit, which enables the local phone book. Americans to work legally in "I wasn't concerned about England, and it helped with tax finding a job," he said. "I just forms. thought it would be a really 
He discovered the possibility great experience. Fifty per cent of a London internship at a of people who go over to work 
ary numbers of banks, restaurants, and stores. I got the numbers and looked up places. I called one grocery store, went in for an interview, and they hired me on the spot." 
Morella, an engineering major. worked in efficiency management in the power plant. He performed tasks geared toward maintaining the plant, he said. 
"Most of it was maintenance," he said. "Technically I wasn't with engineering most of the time. I worked in daily repair and upkeep of the plant. Half of it was out in the plant, follow­ing engineers. It was pretty important work, now that I think of it." 
In addition to the hands-on
' I t wasn't that hard 
to fit into another 
. culture. It made me think of the way things are around here and how much we have here and our standards of living.' 
Kevin Harris 
greater exposure to Britain's buisness system and the way that British power systems dif­fer from American methods of power generation. The political systems have the greatest impact on power plants, he said. 
"The power plants there are of a grander scale," he said. "They do work on a larger scale because they are state-run. At one time it was just one gigan­tic power company. all con­trolled by the state." 
Both Morella and Harris said they learned from the foreign experiences as well as the work experiences. Living and work­ing abroad is an experience that cannot match simply trav­elling in and visiting a country, according to Harris. Even living in the apartment they shared with two British people was a learning experience, he said. 
"It wasn't that hard to fit into another culture," he said. "It made me think of the way things are around here and how much we have here and our standards of living." 
Most of Harris' co-workers in the grocery store were younger, and he got a lot of exposure to slang language and teenagers' glimpse of the British view of the United States through the fascinated eyes of younger English people. 
"I got a lot of questions about the United States," he said. "Two guys I worked with in the produce department were very curious about the violence in American culture. 
"People would ask me ques­tions about what in the world I was doing in Dartford. The guys I worked with all wanted to come here (to the United States.)" 
British people were very open and willing to help, although the language and accents were a barrier, according to both Harris and Morella. 
"I had more trouble than I thought I would," Harris said. "A lot of the slang doesn't mean anything. (It was frustrating because) they could understand everything I said because they watch so much American tele­vision. 
Overall, despite the age and language barriers, his co-work­ers provided a friendly social circle. 
"People would poke fun sometimes," he said. "It was kind of a novelty. They'd come up and talk to me and get a feel 
------~------­
Tuesday, February 8, 1994


I T 
I I 
I 
f 
-
I 
. 
You Are Invited to Attend 




"Winning in the Value-Conscious '90s" 
A Procter & Gamble Presentation 
on the Key to Creating and Leveraging 
Consumer Value 
Featuring 
Mike Milligan Senior Vice President 
New Date: Tuesday, February 15 

5:30p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
Rescheduled from january 20, due to inclement weather. We apologize for any inconvenience. 
Reception immediately following. Food and beverages will be served. Dress is casual. Students from all majors welcome. 
1:::::1 
~Drr 
Meet P&G managers from: 
• 
Finance 

• 
Sales 

• 
Management Systems 

• 
Product Development 

• 
Product Supply 

• 
Brand Management 


~ 
·•1:::::1




-&Gamble 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Back woes lead Lemieux to consider retirement 
Tuesday, February 8, 1994 

Classifieds 

different attitude. They rarely talk about having Lemieux in the lineup. In the past, the Penguins have been side­tracked by anticipating Lemieux's return and disap­pointed when he didn't come back. 
The Penguins' financial pic­ture is shaped greatly by Lemieux. Ticket prices have risen dramatically during his 10 seasons. Seats in the third­tier C-level now sell for $47. They were $11 in his rookie season, 1984-85. 
His groundbreaking contract assigns marketing rights to the Penguins, and the team takes full advantage. The team makes money selling merchandise bearing Lemieux's likeness or name. 
His back problems first flared during the 1989-90 season. Back pain forced him to aban­don a streak of 46 consecutive games with points and he then missed 21 games. 
He had a herniated disc re­moved on July 11, 1990. The recovery and a subsequent in­fection caused him to miss the first 50 games of the next sea­son. 
Lemieux returned to help lead the Penguins to their frrst Stan­ley Cup and was the Most Valu­able Player in the playoffs. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST -Has anyone seen my neck· lace under all this snow? Gold chain with 3 gold letters: 
Lost: Red women's wallet at Campus View on Fri. 1/28. Keep the money, but I need the rest of it. If found, please call Katie at x2550. 
Has anyone seen my necklace somewhere under all this snow? Gold chain with three gold letters A­R-1 • has great sentimental value. Will give reward and be eternally grateful to finder. Please call Ari @ 259-0219 w/ any info. 
Lost: gold chain with two lockets Thurs. afternoon-2/3-near b-ball courts in ACC next to ice rink. Great personal value. If found, please call Sanmit at 1684 
WANTED 
....SP~NG BREAK '94.... Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 110% lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREEl TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. 
Need one extra JPW ticket for all events DESPERATELYI!!IIII! Will pay $$$$$$. Call Kelly at x3506 
SMC women looking for sponta­
neous and thrill-seeking men to do 
the group thing at the Senior 
Formal. No strings attached. Call 
Mary ASAP by Wed. 
284-5255. 
Need ride to Washington D.C. for 
Spring Break(Mar.5-12/13). Will 
help pay for gas and tolls. Call 
Katie X 4594. 
Desperate! Need ride to Daytona 
Beach for Spring Break. Price is 
negotiable. Please call Roger at 
3508! 
SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+ in salary & benefits. Ski/Snowboard instructors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet staff + other positions (includ­ing summer). Over 15,000 open­ings. For more information call: (206)634-0469 ext. V5584 
Campus newspaper carrier/manag­
er needed immediately for St. 
Mary's campus, call City News 
Service Inc., 232-3205. 
Home delivery newspaper carriers needed for morning delivery, car required. Call City News Service Inc., 232-3205. 
SENIOR needs extra GRADUA· TION tickets. Will pay CASH. Call Dave @ 273-3008 
Help! need ride to Worcester MA or nearby for Spring Break. l drive stick, will $, leave whenever Catx2530 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY· MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 

FOR RENT 
HOME BASED B &B ALLIANCE HOMES available for Feb. 18 & 19, Parents weekend. Call 271-0989. Excellant accomadations. 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, 
KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF 
CAMPUS. 272-0615 
FURNISHED 8 BEDROOM HOME GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY· APPROVED HOMES-JPW, GRAD., etc. •219-291-7153• 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
SECURITY SYSTEM 
ALL APPLIANCES 
1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 
232 2595 
FREE MAID SERVICE '94-95 
Big 6 bedrm.,great area, B.B. & 
sand V-ball courts. 234-3831 or 
273-0482 

FOR SALE 
MacCiassic, 4/40$600. Queensize sleepersofa, 1yearold, $350. Call 256-5202 eves. 
86 VWJetta 
$1250 or best offer 
277-0485 
VALENTINES DAY GIFT? 
For Sale: 16 .01 Diamond Ring 
A-Quality Appraisal Value: $550 
Will Sell for Less Callx4-4205 
l-eave Message w/Offer 

TICKETS 
TRADE: 6 block super Garth tix for Sun for 6 on Sat-any combo;HELP­out of town friends can't go Sun;call and deal-have 16 totaltix 273-6094 
I have an extra ticket to Garthll Call Sean at x3102 and give best offer! 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 1 JPW TICKET TO ALL OR SOME EVENTS! CALL MEGAN 4·2630 

PERSONAL 
ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure couple longs for a newborn to join our family. Please call Nancy and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. 
SPRING BREAK! 
Student Holidays, the nation's 
leader in Spring Break vacations 
offering the ultimate trip to 
CANCUN, MEXICO! The #1 Student Spring Break 
Destination from $399 
Package includes hotel, flight 
and parties! Organize a small 
group and travel for FREEl 
CALL RICHI1-800-360-TRIP 
BEAKER· COOL! 
SNAP-A-SCAM. Want a picture of that someone special without revealing your identity? We'll get it for you! Sign up Tues., Wed., and Thurs. at NOH and SOH during din· ner hoUI:s. $2.00/scam. Proceeds go to the Mara Fox Scholarship Fund. 
Anyone going to Columbus, Dayton, or anywhere in Ohio this weekend? If you have any room in your car, please call Michelle at X4376 --------Taylor· Valentine's Day is comingll Are you excited to go out on our Valentine's date on Saturday? One last night out before we hit the poor house!! LOVE YOU, Jamie 
valentines day special 
university hairstylist $2.00 off any 
service monday feb. 14th 
9am·9pm 631-5144 
What about JOE HAIGH? 
SEAN MCKENNA! 
SEAN MCKENNA! 
Do you like to talk on the phone? Come to the Women's Care Center Phone-A-Than Feb.7 ,8,9,14,15,& 16 
6:30-8:30pm 2nd floor-Admin. Bldg. 
Hey Juniors! 
The Junior Four is here! 
Auditions for the annual Class of 1995 production are TONIGHT, FEB.8 
8:30-1 0:30PM in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. All are invited to join in the festivities and audition! It promises to be an interesting and extremely entertaining experience once again! 
Top Ten Quotes from the Howard SYR Courtesy of Rm 132 & 235 
10. "Don't throw Steve in the snow, he's got on wool pants!" 
9. "Did you see Brian? He was in a booby-trap!" 
8. "Angel didn't fall, she just tipped over.• 
7. "Who's your daddy?I" 
6. "This is my date, Paul." "Uh, my name's Mikel" 
5. "It's true! All men love lesbians." 
4. "Did you hook up before or after you puked?" "Both" 
3. "I only owe you 50 cents since we were only half naked." 
2. "And you thought the Howard SYR would be boring... You were WRONGI" 
1. "Thanks for having me, manll" 
SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1·800-786­8373 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Trip Includes Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! 1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica! 
Fly out of Chicago and spend 8 
days on the beach! We have the 
best trips & prices! Includes air & 
hotel & parties from $399! 1-800­
678-6386 Spring Break! Panama City! 8 days oceanview room with kitchen $1191 Walk to best bersl Includes free dis­count card -save $50 on cover charges! 1-800-678-6386 
4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help each other. Medllegal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 
1·800-864·8385. 

********BEAT THE RUSH******** 
VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching, and if you want to write a classified to that special someone, you can type your ad now. Your message will appear in the special Valentine's Observer on Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd floor of Lafortune. 
Don't forget to pick up your Book Fair money in the Student Government Office (during the day) by February 9 at 4pm. After that you cannot get the moneylllll 
What are you doing for 
Spring Break???? 
Try out the .... 

APPALLACHIA SEMINAR! Slots are still available • inquiry at the Center for Social Concerns. 
So did you get the gist of the puz­
zle/ Senior Bar Ads?? 

II you want GREAT specials figure them out and uncover the best kept secret in townlllll 
Deals! Deals! Deals! Deals! 

Brian Kelly: Is your Crack clean?? 
To my B.P. and Flanner buddies-
Thanks for making my 20th 
birthday special. Without you all, 
my birthday in Nieuwland would 
not have been the same. I must 
say that I have some pretty 
awesome friends! 
Natasha 

I've never seen Kathie and Kyle in 
the same room together ... coinci­
dence? I think noll 
~&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·& 
PW CARNATION SALE: 
Camationas will be sold in both din­ing halls during lunch and dinner this week tor $1. All proceeds bene­fit the Tara Deutsch Scholarship Fund. Flowers will be delivered on Sunday, Feb. 13. 
Tell that special someone how much you care: 
Red= I love you. Pink= I like you. White= Let's get acquainted. Yellow= We're friends. and.... Green= ??????? 
·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&· 
College of Business Administration MUGSIII 
Only $10 and on sale Feb 7-11 from 11 am to 1 pm in the Hayes-Healy Lobby 
Sponsored by the NO Marketing Club 
Howard's SYR The Hood's Top 10 Ust (1st floor): 
10. $22 a couple--NO WAY! 
9. Nice black & floral Bl 
8. I'm trying to scare people. 
7. Steve,Steve, Psycho Steve! uhh...l'm Leslie. 
6. Did you get any sex from him? 
5. Anyone for blow jobs? 
4. That's it...let's all play with the drunk. 
3. I'm in LOVE with my date. 
2. Davin's blow throw onto Bandit's shirt! 
1. Only Earl can see my breastsll 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY TO THE RUSSIAN SINGING GODDESS! We hope the tea leaves predict a 
night of drunken revelry for you. Don't break any nails! HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHRISTINA! love, lanchenko and Stepharusski GO WILD BAGSIII 
FOUR DAYS UNTIL GARTHIIII How much fun we have, "The night will only know"
··················••····•············· 

The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 8, 1994 


Ina, Dungjen ready for the dance 

By BARRY WILNER Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway 
Kyoko Ina and Jason Dungjen don't expect to be found on any medals podium at this Olympics. That's just fine with them-for now. 
Ina and Dungjen quickly have risen through the ranks of pairs figure skating in the United States, an impressive feat con­sidering that Ina was a novice when they were teamed 2 1/2 years ago. They fmished second at the national championships last month, earning their first Olympic berths. 
That doesn't mean they're contenders at Lillehammer, and they know it. 
"We're closing the gap on the Russians," Dungjen said Mon­day after the couple's first workout at the Olympic Am­phitheatre. "But they're still the best. 
"We're here to skate our best and have a good time as Olympians. This is all about be­ing at the Olympics." 
Dungjen has been skating pairs for more than a decade, first with sister Susan, then with Karen Courtland. Ironi­cally, Courtland also is on the Olympic team after finishing third at nationals with partner Todd Reynolds. The U.S. cham­pions are Todd Sand and Jenni Meno, ranked fifth in the world. 
Ina, however, didn't turn to pairs until 1992. 
Born in Tokyo, she moved to Englewood Cliffs, N.J., when she was 6 months old and be­
_%'tre 0tV~Ze ~ttl ~V'telt' 
~edf 
Fonner Dean and Current Professor of Law at the Howard University School of Law 
"Justice and Jurisprudence and the Black Lawyer" 
Barry Courtroom, Notre Dame Law School Wednesday, February 9, 1994 at 2:00p.m. 

.Attention Juniorslll 
It's audition time for the Junior One-Act Plays. Auditions will be held 8:30-1 0:30 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday in Montgomery Theater. 
*No Acting Experience Necessary!* 
gan skating when she was 4. 
To get her some international experience, coach Peter Bur­rows urged Ina to return to Japan to compete in the junior championships, which she won in 1987. She took the U.S. ju­nior crown in 1989, but then she moved up to seniors, where she couldn't rise above the Jill Trenarys, Kristi Yamaguchis and Nancy Kerrigans. 
So she agreed to try pairs and was partnered with Dungjen, who had taken off two years to attend Michigan State, then returned to work with Court­land. 
"The transition from singles to pairs wasn't scary, but it wasn't easy," Ina said. "Having competed as a singles skater did make it easier because there was not as much pressure on me in pairs. 
"Pairs also is easier for me because I don't have to do so many jumps and I'm not wor­ried about falling so much. 
"I also realized I could go to the Olympics i.J) pairs." 
That was a lofty ambition for a new team. But the jumbled status of pairs in the United States helped Ina-Dungjen. At nationals, of the top five cou­ples, only Courtland-Reynolds were together longer, and by just a few months. 
Ina and Dungjen were seventh at the 1992 nationals, their first major event together. 
They moved up to fifth the next year and had a pair of runner-up showings at smaller events before this season. 

Subway has hot Italian subs. 
(You got a problem with that?) 
We're talking real hot Italian Subs here. 
Like the spicy Pina Sub, heany ---~~~ 
Meatball, and Italian Steak. 
All smothered with Carm's 
Marinara -authentic sauce 
from a recipe by our 
founder's own mother! 
Six-inch Subs start at only 
$1.69. 

250 Progran1s 
for Professional & Personal Development 
• Personal Computers 
• GMAT, GRE, LSAT Review Courses 
• English as a Second Language 
• 
Quality Management • Administrative Assistant/ Office Management • Human Resources • Customer Service • Certified Financial Planner 

• 
CEBS • and much morel Most Classes Start Week of Feb.14 


(Computer classes start earlier) 
For Your FREE Catalog, Call 237-4261 
I 
INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
SournBEND 
CoNI1NUING EDUCATION
IlliB 

1700 MisHAwAKA AVE., Sourn BEND 

r-----------------~·-----~~-------------­
Tuesday, February 8, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
Winter Olympics earn praise for IOC president pleads for peace in Sarajevo 
being "environmentally correct" 
By DAVE CARPENTER 
Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway Pass the potato plates, please. Or just eat them. 
From edible dishware to the "hidden" bobsled run to recy­clable biathlon bullets, the or­ganizers of the Lillehammer Winter Games have done their best to make them environ­mentally correct. 
These Olympics will be "EC" from the moment the giant torch is lighted for the opening ceremonies, burning bio-gas produced by rotting vegetation. 
"In Lillehammer we will ex­perience the first truly ecologi­cal Games -white and green Games," pronounced Juan Antonio Samaranch, president of the International Olympic Committee, on Monday. 
Even environmentalists, while less laudatory than the organiz­ers, generally approve of the sensitivity shown in planning for the Games. 
But some suspect the gov­ernment wanted to detract at­tention from its widely con­demned defiance of the inter­national ban on commercial whaling. 
"It's admirable that they're making an attempt in terms of including environmental impact in the planning," Blair Palese, chief press officer for the envi­ronmental group Greenpeace, said Monday from London. 
"But there's no doubt that the "greening" of the Olympics had a lot to do with the negative publicity generated by their whaling practices," she said. "It's kind of a double-edged sword." 
The organizing committee held a press conference Mon­day to tout its environmental steps, offering remarks by gov­ernment, Olympic and other officials. 
Environment Minister Thorb­jorn Berntsen declared that "Nature is the winner," and afterward media were taken to the biathlon course for a demonstration of how the mili­tary will retrieve the half-ton of lead bullets that will be used. 
Chinese-American Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge 
AuthentiC Szechuan. Mandann & Hunan Cu1s1ne 
$8 95 r.hildren • ·..:•1der 10 February 9 & 10 naif pnce 
By STEPHEN WILSON 
Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway 
Ten years ago, Juan Antonio Samaranch was in Sarajevo to preside over his first Olympics as IOC president. 
On Monday, he pleaded for a truce in the 22-month-old war that has reduced the Bosnian capital to a horror zone of car­nage and death. 
"Please stop the fighting," Samaranch said. "Please stop the killing. Please drop our guns." 
In a speech marking the open­ing of the IOC session, Samaranch renewed his appeal for warring factions in Bosnia and the rest of the world to lay down their arms as part of an Olympic truce coinciding with the Lillehammer Games. 
The International Olympic Committee initiative is based on an ancient Greek tradition of halting wars during the Games. The appeal has been endorsed by the U.N. General Assembly but has proved difficult to achieve. 
On Saturday, the day the month-long truce was supposed to go into effect, at least 68 people were killed and 200 wounded in a mortar attack on the marketplace in downtown Sarajevo. 
"Three days ago, horror struck again the Olympic city Sarajevo," Samaranch said. "Our message is stronger than ever ... We shall not give up our efforts to contribute as it is stip­ulated in our charter to build­ing a more peaceful and better world." 
Fighting continued in Bosnia on Monday, with two women and a 14-year-old boy killed by shells in the central town of Zenica. 
The IOC released a message from Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic in which he ex­pressed support for the truce initiative. 
"We, the people of Bosnia­Herzegovina, as the victims of a double aggression, are fer­vently seeking righteous peace and the end of our sufferings," the statement said. "Nevertheless, we shall commit to the observance of this truce, as well as to the release of pris­oners, hoping that these actions will meet their aims." 
Norwegian Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland condemned the "atrocious attack" on the Sarajevo marketplace and asked for the truce to be respected by all sides. 
"The strangulation of Sara­jevo is an affront to the world community and an insult to the Olympic ideal," she said in a speech at the IOC ceremony. 
At the same time, the prime minister acknowledged that the Lillehammer Games "cannot force peace upon the troubled regions of the world. They can­not force the Olympic ideal on aggressors or oppressors." 
Looking back to 1984, Sama­ranch recalled that the Sara­jevo organizing committee was composed of Bosnians from dif­ferent religious and ethnic groups and the Games were held "in a spirit of friendship, solidarity, fair play and com­mitment of peace." 
Samaranch has expressed the desire to visit Sarajevo during the Games but made no men­tion of that during his speech. 
Samaranch made no mention of an issue that has dominated attention heading into the Feb. 12-27 Lillehammer Games ­the Tonya Harding affair. The IOC has left it up to the U.S. Olympic Committee to decide whether Harding should be barred from the Games be­cause of the attack on rival fig­ure skater Nancy Kerrigan. 
On another topic, Samaranch reiterated -"so there is no more doubt" -that the Winter Olympics will continue to be limited to sports practiced on snow and ice. Some have sug­gested that sports such as box­ing, basketball and volleyball could be switched from the Summer to Winter Games. 
Samaranch said the Olympic movement was stronger than ever, having overcome the era of political boycotts and the time when only one city -Los Angeles -was interested in hosting the 1984 Games. Ten cities are bidding for the 2002 Winter Games. 
He said the IOC had taken a major step in the fight against drugs with the Jan. 13 agree­ment for Olympic sports fed­erations to harmonize their anti-doping rules, procedures and sanctions. 
is now accepting applications for the 
1994-95 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to jake Peters by Thursday, Feb. 10 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process orfor more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-5323. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting; writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and co!umnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, over, sees the Etc. page and is responsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. 
. PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full,time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's . 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXPress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXPress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. · 
OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertis, ers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with Ad Design manager and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self,motivation. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost, tracking and order transaction duties. 
-, 

._ .... ._IL&..L.' 
~-----------------------------··---------···--·-·· ··························· 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 8, 1994 
Knight may reconsider rigid code of conduct for Hoosier fans 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Maybe not toward the refs, but the Indiana coach may be rethinking his unbending atti­tude on perfect student deco­rum at home. 
The often-subdued Assembly Hall crowd, seemingly held in check by Knight's rigid and vo­cal demands for good behavior, is in marked contrast with the raucous and sometimes profane reception the Hoosiers usually receive on the road. 
He's not suggesting Hoosier 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
team's ability to rise up the level of competition they will be facing in the coming weeks. 
"It will be tough, but we need to play tough teams to see where we're at," he said. "It will be a good test for us." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Have a gripe? ... a dilemna? VIEWPOINT! 
The Observer 
Perfect Pinkies Tanning 
Purchase 15 sessions for $4500 package 
Receive goggles and accelerator packet FREE with this ad 
In the Georgetown Center 
271-7121 
~ 
DIE l10RRIS INN 
Of NOTRE D411E 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 
Public Welcome 
Valentine's Dinner Specials Starting at $9.75 
Includes Soup, Salad, Entree and Special Dessert 
Specials Available from 
February 11 -February 14 
For Reservations Call 631-2020 


fans reciprocate with equally rowdy behavior, but he admits the dampened enthusiasm at home may be hurting the play­ers. 
"I don't think I'm being fair to my team," he admitted to the Bloomington Herald-Times last week after he was ejected with two technical fouls for arguing with officials in a game against Ohio State. 
When Knight left the court and retreated to the locker room, the noise level of the crowd rose noticeably, along with a few chants directed at the Buckeyes and some waving behind the basket in an attempt to distract Ohio State foul shooters, all Knight no-nos. 
The Indiana coach has often scolded home crowds for such behavior, even going so far as to take the courtside public ad­dress microphone to admonish the offending fans. A few dag­gered stares or even a sideline saunter to the source of his irri­tation usually are enough to quiet the crowd. 
''I'm sure the day after I leave Indiana people will be yelling and waving and hollering," Knight said. "There'll be a lot of things change the day after I leave." 
Just don't expect things to change too much before then, though. 
"As long as I'm here, I think that you're the host team, you support your team, you get behind your team, you show everybody that Indiana fans are the most supportive of their team, that they are the best fans in the country, and you don't detract from the partici­pation of the other team," he said on his weekly radio show two days before the Ohio State game. 
"I've always felt that the wav­ing of fans behind the back­board when the other team is shooting a free throw borders on not just the discourteous but the idiotic. 
"There's a lot of energy that fans can expel on behalf of their own team and their own players, which is what I would always like to see here in our arena. I think our approach has really set our fans aside from any group in the country, and quite frankly, I like to see that." 

Senior Formal News 

SENIOR FORMAL TUXEDO RENTALS FROM 

Senior Formal Tickets are on Sale 
LOUIE'S TUX SHOP 
TODAY from 6-9 p.m. at 
PRICES: 

Black Classic ................................................... $46.95 +TAX Designer Tuxedos ............................................ $59.95 +TAX
Theodore's in LaFortune. 
Shoes ...............................................................$1 0.00 +TAX 
PAYMENT: 

Partial or full payment may be made. (A $15.00 minimum deposit is required at
Bids for the dance are $65°0 
• 
the time of fitting.) We accept cash, VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, and Personal Checks. 
Also, don't miss the chance to 
WHEN: 

February 7'h & 8th, 1994. (6:00p.m.-9:00p.m.)
buy tickets for Second City 
($12°0 per person) and 
WHERE: 

Lafortune Center, Theodore's on Monday & Tuesday.
Chanpagne glasses ($5°0 each). 
*Don 'tforget yourbidforms.* 
GRADUATE STUDENT LENTEN RETREAT 
Friday, February 18 -Saturday, February 19 8:00p.m. (24 hours) 8:00p.m. 





A time of silence and reflection, companionship and conversation. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students and will focus on the Sunday Gospels of Lent. 
Place: Crowe House, on the shore of lake Michigan, 30 miles northwest of Notre 
Dame. 
Planning: All graduate students interested in this retreat are invited and urged to attend a 30 minute meeting Tuesday, February 15, at 7:00p.m., in the Fischer Graduate Community Center. 
Deadline: Reservations for the 1welve available places will be accepted until Tuesday, February 15. 
Contact I;r. john Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 631-8606 or Sharon Harwell at Fischer Community Center 631-8607. Cost $15.00 for the cost of meals and snacks. 

(?MPUSMNISTRY 

.-------------------·----~----------------------~~----~~-­
Tuesday, February 8, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Jordan signs minor league contract with White Sox 
ByRICKGANO game last October. "That's 27 other general managers Associated Press something you have .to deal would. In a second." with in reality. You're not al­Why? Jordan hasn't played CHICAGO ways going to be successful. I baseball since he was in high 
Michael Jordan made it offi­think I'm strong enough as a school. cial Monday. Now it's on to person to accept failure. But I "Because of who he is and his green grass of spring training. can't accept not trying." athletic ability," Schueler said. 
Jordan was back in a gym, a Not that Jordan expects to fail "We're talking about the top familiar setting for the world's at his newest venture. athlete in the world." most famous basketball player. "I think I've improved The White Sox know distrac­The baskets, however, were tremendously," said Jordan, tions. They had to deal with Bo raised to the ceiling and Jor­who's been working out un­Jackson's comeback from hip dan's tongue-wagging concen­derneath Comiskey Park for the replacement surgery last tration was focused on another last two months with some spring. Jordan, like Jackson, sport. White Sox players and person­will not be given any special 
At the end of a baseball work­nel. "My motto has been, 'It's treatment. out covered live on local cable no gimmick."' "He'll have to earn it, noth­television, Jordan signed a mi­Jordan said he would consider ing's going to be given to him," nor-league contract with the going to the minor leagues if Schueler said. "We're going to Chicago White Sox and was in­the White Sox thought he had go north with the best 25." vited to spring training as a the potential to make it to the Jordan will get the attention non-roster player. majors. of pitchers, who could see his 
Thirty years old and just four His contract is with the appearance as an intrusion. months retired from the NBA, Nashville Sounds of the Class Jordan can expect message Jordan went through a workout AAA American Association, and pitches, high and tight. at the Illinois Institute of Tech­it wasn't immediately known if "The pitchers will make it aw­nology that included batting, he signed a letter agreement ful tough on him," Schueler fielding and tossing. He said for a major league contract in said. "I don't think anybody he'll report to spring training the event he makes the majors. will say, 'I'm going to throw it next week at Sarasota, Fla. He is still being paid by the down the middle and let 
"I've never been afraid to Bulls this season, a salary re­Michael get a hit.' He's going to fail," said Jordan, who led the ported to be $4 million. get worked over and they are Chicago Bulls to three straight "I chose to try to play baseball going to come after him.'' NBA titles before leaving the just to see if I could," said Jor­Jordan expects to be tested by 


.... 

over, Kansas had set six pool  ;.,_...'".!_~···.····"""""""""'"'·  
records at Rolfs Aquatic Cen­ ""'%'••  
ter.  
"Kansas is the fastest team to  
visit Notre Dame since Stanford  
in 1989," commented Irish  
head coach Tim Welsh. "They  
are one of the best dual-racing  
teams in the country, and we  
were proud to have them here."  
Although the seniors ended  
their home-swimming season in  
defeat, they remain optimistic  
about the future.  
"Even though the scoreboard  
says we got crushed, we really  
swam well," stated captain  
Kristin Heath. "In order for  
Notre Dame to make a name  
for itself in this sport, we have  
to swim teams like Kansas."  
The Irish hope to benefit from  
the experience as they travel to  
battle Wisconsin-Milwaukee on  Notre Da The Observer/Sean Farnan me's men's and women's swim teams were handily defeated  
Saturday.  by Kansa s' 13th and 16th ranked men's and women's teams.  
t  

-~ ----~----.. 

.... _.. --·-----~--------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 8, 1994 
National power Kansas demolishes Irish swimming at Rolf's 
By KELLY CORNELlS Spons Writer 
Although the Notre Dame swimming teams put forth some of their best times of the season last Saturday, they were no match for the Jayhawks ofKansas, who proved that they deserve their Top-20 national rankings. 
The women lost 170-92 to 16th-ranked Kansas, and the men fell167.5-109.5 to the No. 13 team in the nation. 
Despite the defeat, the Irish showed promise as they pre­pare for approaching champi­onship competition. 
For the women, sophomore Jesslyn Peterson claimed the 200 free, and her time of 
1:53.67 tied the school record set by Alicia Feehery in 1990. She also placed second in the 
Kurowski 
continued from page 20 
but I'm starting to feel more comfortable out there." 
That was clear in the best game of his career, a 19-point effort in Saturday's upset of No. 4 UCLA. 
Kurowski connected on 6-for-8 from the field and 6-for-8 from the free throw line to offset a poor shooting day from Ryan Hoover. 
"He has a flair," MacLeod said. "He's not afraid to score 19 and he's not afraid to score 
30. He doesn't feel uncomfort­able putting up big numbers. And his defense (against UCLA) was much better." 
Defense is where Kurowski's injuries hit him the hardest. 
400 IM, earning NCAA consid­eration for her time of 4:26.91. The stellar sophomore is on target to meet NCAA standards in several events. On the men's side, Ry Beville took the 100 fly in 52.37, and also anchored the winning 200 free relay for the Irish. Junior Andy Kiley, who has been steadily improving all sea­son, captured second in the 50 free, with a time of 21.67. "It was a good chance to swim against some of the fastest swimmers in the nation," said Kiley. "There were a lot of great efforts shown by our squad." In diving , the women were dominated by the Jayhawks, but Sean Hyer placed second in the one-meter, and third in the three-meter events for the men. By the time both meets were 
With a bad foot on one leg and a bad knee on the other, he simply doesn't have the speed he once had. 
But desire isn't measured in miles per hour. If it was, Kurowski would be better suit­ed to the Indianapolis 500. 
He has played through the lin­gering pain to become one of Notre Dame's most effective of­fensive weapons. 
That he has done it all with a still-recovering knee makes it even more remarkable. His fu­ture is much brighter than that dark day at the Joyce Center. 
"My knee is still a little sore. I don't think it will be 100 per­cent until next year, if every­thing goes as planned," Kurowski said. "I just want to play through it and stay healthy for the next three years." 

Thinking ofdoing 
... 
ayearofservice? How about dolng it 
for alifetime? 
.... 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the Llniver~ity of Notre Dame for college graduate-, in!LTL'~ted in nploring the po-,~ibility of a lifetime ol ~er\'iL·,· a~ a Ilui~ Cross prie-,t or brother. Sdwlar~hip a~.,i~tanc,· i" a\ ailahlc. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley. C.S.C. ·­
h. P<ltrid !lannon. C.S.C. 
Congregation oflloly Cro"" Bm :'i-ll. Notre Dame. lndian<l 46))6 
(2 jlJ 1 h~ 1-(L'l,X) 
A New Series for FACULTY, Professional Staff& Graduate Students 
TIMELY TOPICS 
An opportunity to enter into conversation with colleagues on current ethical and religious issues. 
"HEALTH CARE REFORM: Morals or Management?,. 
A Conversation with David Solomon and Richard McCormick, S.J. 
Philosophy 
Spon•ored by: 
• Ser'vice • Community • Culture • Open ~v1indedness • Prejudice Reduct;io Ster·eo~t,ype Service • Prejudic unity • Cu lt~u (:ul·tur~e • 
t')
~...pen rejudice Reduct-ion • •Eliminating Stereotypes • Awar·eness • Ser·vice 
That•s what we•re all about. Interested? 
Multicultural Executive Council is now accepting applications for the 1994-95 school year 
Thursday, February 10 7:30p.m. at The Center for Social Concerns 
'flte DcpartJocnt The Center for of 'Ibeology Social Concerns 
· -Li!Jht Refreshments will follnw-­

Theology 
The Office of Compus Minilll.ry 


Tuesday, February 8, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Muddies the 63 Japanese water aboriginal
1 They're plucked 36 "The Company" 64 Assassinate 
&Busyas­
37 Sara and Negri 65 Put up
10 Lake formed by Hoover Dam 39 Years in Paris 66 Cuff 
40Mole &7 Cod relative14Bye 
42 Native: Suffix 68 Drinks with straws 
15 Druid, e.g. 
16 Presque-, 43 Comedienne Me. 
Fields 
17 Close behind 45 Hebrides DOWN language
20 Chair plan 1lt's a laugh 46 Completely21 Setter or unperturbed 21985film "Myretriever Life as-"50 Olympian:22 "Fables in 3-of passageAbbr.
Slang" author 4 Drudge51 Knock-knock24 Part of a bridal joke, e.g. 5 Dairy bar order
bio 52 Sounds the 
&Otto's "oh!"
25 Words after hour 7 English "The last time I channel, withsaw Paris" 56 1967-70 war site "the" 34 Buck follower &1 Discourage 
a Like many textbook publishers
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Adjective for Rome 10 Cellar growth -=+'~-~=~ 11 Old gas brand 28Sock-58 TV exec 12 Sleep like-29 Quinine water 48 Actor Gooding Friendly 
59Cape­
49Giues13 Excellent, in 30 Smarten 
(westernmost
52 Earth 
slang 31 Lip-puckering 
point in
53 Bluefin 
18 Cry of 32 Hair-coloring continental -=+:~+=-! achievement solution 54 Scat cat Europe) ~H.;.:+:;-ioiE!=-1.:;..+:~=-1 19 Ancient capital 33-et Magistra 55 It's north of 60 Colonists of Macedonian (1961 61-dedeux
Neb. encyclical) 57 Flying: Prefix 62 Fork
~~[ffiJIIil kings
~ 23 Corrigenda 38 It causes sparks =+:=+:+.+;.;-1-:4.;..+~ 25 June in 41 Lapidarist's 
Get answers to any three clues
Hollywood object of study 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
.:+:::+:-..:-! 26 Sister of Thalia 44 City on Lake 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
.:..L:..:..J..::..L:...J 27Aifa-Winnebago 


THU, FEB 5 FRI, FEB II BATTLE. of the 
• CLUB ~ ­
.. 


DINING HALL 
SPELUNKER 
l£'T'S SEE. NO\IJ... CANDLES ARE u T ... ROMAN'Tl( Mli51C fl..A'IINin. L-lf,i+r5 AI<£ LOW.. . 
7 C()()RSE ME.Al IS RV\0'/.. . 
YEP £VER'{l\liN(n IS SET 
WHL, RH\El'<\BER W\-\1\T 'io~ 
SI\ID, \3KAIJS'E \N. 1\ DA.'{ 
OR I'NO, ILL \.\1\IJE 1\ WITN 
t>..~t;) BLI5\EI<.\\'\.\; l<.t.\CRI .' 
~O'J'LL BE Dt.VI\STf>.JED TlltN, 
I I'ROt<\\5E.' 
\ 
JAY HOSLER 
Oo~@Qo~rg~nJcf?®G (p!lu®ll'\\® ~r;&f ~~w~ 
BILL WATTERSON 
1 WIS\-\ 1 CO\JLO n\1~\<. OF COM£.8A.CK LINtS 01'-1 \"\-\( SPOT. 
DAVE KELLETT 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, February 8, 1994 
Fencing teams dominate weekend tournaments on East Coast 
By JOE VILLINSKI Spons Writer 
Neither competition, nor travel sched­ule, nor even decisions in meets have improved for the Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams lately 
The only thing that seems to keep on improving is their record as the Irish dominated the competition last Saturday and Sunday at Harvard and Brandeis when MARIA PANYI both the men's team and women's foil teams kept their perfect records intact. 

-
"This team has responded to a lot of my questions with very satisfying answers," said men's head coach Mike DeCicco. 
Most of those questions have been the Tar Heels 5-4 as captain Marit constraints, Air Force provided the answered by both the women's foil and Fischer preserved the victory with a 2-1 toughest challenge. The Irish prevailed epee teams, which mauled their compe­win in the last bout. However, the 15-12. tition last weekend. The foil team did tables were turned on the epee in the "God forbid we ever have to go to not lose more than four bouts in any sin­next match when the Irish suffered a war," said DeCicco, "but if we do, I'm gle match, hammering such teams as heartbreaking 5-4 loss to NYU. glad we have those Air Force men fight­North Carolina (14-2) and NYU (15-1). "Despite the loss, we are very pleased ing on our side. It was a real 
Sophomore Maria Panyi highlighted with the teams results today," said accomplishment for us to beat them." the wins by going 20-1 in Boston and Auriol. "Marit Fischer, Maura Along with an 8-1 victory against improving to 38-1 on the season. Gallagher, and Ashley Shannon are real­Harvard by the sabre team, freshman Women's foil is now an amazing 295-58 ly setting an example for all future Notre foilist Jeremy Siek posted a key victory for the season. Dame epee teams to follow." over the Crimson's All-American Kwame 
"It's obvious that adding a world-class "Our experience is making the differ­van Leeuwen on the way to going 14-2 fencer like Maria has raised our team to ence for us this year," added Fischer. on the weekend. While the meet against another level," said women's head coach "All the hard work that was put in last MIT saw the foil team lead the way with Yves Auriol. "It's just as obvious that year is translating into a total team ef­an 8-1 victory, a team effort was Mindi Kalogera (19-3), Claudette de fort this season." required to defeat the Tar Heels, 16-11. Bruin (20-3), Kim Arndt (18-3), Didi The men's team continued the Irish's "Once again, our victories were total Garcia (12-6) and the others are fol­winning ways for the year by raising team efforts," noted DeCicco. "This lowing her lead and becoming an out­their record to 20-0 with victories over team is developing a personality all its standing foil squad." Harvard, Air Force, Brown, Brandeis, own. Total team efforts and contribu­
In women's epee, the Irish plastered MIT, and North Carolina. Since the Irish tions have taken over from individual MIT and Brandeis 9-0 before defeating could not fence Princeton due to time performances." 

.­
The Observer/Macy Hueckel 
Guard Keith Kurowski pictured here in Saturday's victory over UCLA has proven himself an important factor for the Irish basketball team. 
By JASON KELLY Associate Spans Editor 
The Joyce Center arena was dark. Only a bouncing ball and squeaking sneaker broke the si­lence. 
One sneaker. The one on Keith Kurowski's good foot. 
The noise puzzled Notre Dame coach John MacLeod. He walked down to the court to discover Kurowski, still nursing a stress fracture in his left foot, hopping on his right foot and dribbling a ball behind his back. 
"He's 'Action Central,"' MacLeod said. "When he was hurt he was just too antsy to stay off the court." 
So the Matawan, New Jersey gym rat spent a season toiling in darkness. With one good foot. His freshman season erased with one hard landing. 
It was a season full of promise. Kurowski came to Notre Dame as the top 3-point shooting freshman and the 15th best freshman overall, according to The Sporting News. 
But pediatry took precedence over potential. As hard as that 9-18 season 
Michael Jordan The three time NBA Most .. 
Valuable Player was signed to a minor league contract by the Chicago White Sox. see page 17 
see TENNIS/ page 16 
Inside SPORTS 

Swimming Ryan Beville and the Irish swimming teams could not pull out a victo­ry over the powerful Jayhawks. see page 18 
was for the Irish players, it was even harder for Kurowski, who had to watch from the sidelines with no hope of ever playing. 
His connection to the game he loves broken for a full season. That's a stress fracture. 
The only remedy was a basketball in his hands, which he found on that afternoon in the Joyce Center darkness. 
But the spotlight would soon be on him again. Hopeful fans pointed to Kurwoski as the missing link, the one final in­gredient to bring Notre Dame back to the NCAA Tournament. 
Then fate struck again, this time tearing ligaments in his right knee, erasing five more games from his career and ag­gravating the itch. 
He couldn't scratch it until the 35th game of his college career. 
Seven minutes into the first half against Arizona in the Maui Classic, Kurowski made his debut. 
It was an auspicious start, 10 points in just 20 minutes. 
But it has been tough at times for Kurowski, who had to play himself into shape and adjust to the college game as if he was a freshman. 
Notre Dame (6-13) is gaining momentum after weekend wins over No. 4 UCLA and Georgia. 
Butler (10-11) is coming off a 69-60 win over Loyola that saw the resurgence of its star swingman Jermaine Guice. 
Winners of three in a row, the Irish have found some new offensive weapons recently to take some of the burden off Monty Williams. 
Billy Taylor played his best game in two years with 13 points against Georgia and Joe Ross had the first double-digit game of his career with 10. 
Ryan Hoover, who had a career-high 32 against Georgia, can add to his school record of 40 consecutive free throws made. 

Irish ready for 25th-ranked Wisconsin 
By KATE CRISHAM Spans Writer 
When the going gets tough, hopefully the Notre Dame women's tennis team will get going. 
The Irish will face the tough­est test of their season today in their match against 25th­ranked Wisconsin. The team has looked impressive in its past three matches, soundly defeating Kansas State, Miami of Ohio, and Drake en route to an 18th-place national ranking. 
But head coach Jay Louder­back and his players are aware that the competition is only go­ing to get harder. 
"In the next two weeks we have six matches, four of which are against nationally ranked teams," said Louderback. "The other two (William and Mary and Northwestern) are very close to being nationally ranked. So this is definitely the toughest part of our schedule so far." 
The match against fellow Midwestern school Wisconsin is especially important. 
"Wisconsin is a very big match", said Louderback. "They are ranked third in our region, and it's important to play well against regional teams. 
Louderback praised the play of sophomore Wendy Crabtree, who advanced to the quarterfi­nal round of the National In­door Rolex tournament before losing to number-one ranked and eventual winner Lucie Ludgovia of Texas 6-1, 6-3. 
Crabtree defeated Jean Okada of University of Califor­nia-Santa Barbara 6-4, 6-2, then defeated fifth-ranked Jennifer Poulas of California­Berkeley 6-4, 6-3 to reach the quarterfinals. 
"Wendy played very well," said Louderback. "Defeating the fifth-ranked girl will defi­nitely help her mentally." 
Louderback is confident of his 
The Observer!T.J. Harris Irish captain Christy Faustmann and the women's tennis squad hopes to knock off nationally ranked Wisconsin this afternoon. 

Bobby Knight Controversial Hoosier coach reconsiders his strict rules of fan eti­quette. 
see page 16 










