
~150 YEARS~ 
• 
Y'S ~ 
t Cl I I I 1; I 
1:""'
Thursday, November 17, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 54 
~NOTRE DAME·IN ~ 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC alumna donates Guide to aid course choices 
By HEATHER TOMLINSON
$1 million to the arts 
News Writer 
By CAROLINE BLUM ulty of Saint Mary's," Hickey 
Last week students all over Notre Dame's cam­
News Writer said yesterday. 
pus were again thinking about choosing a new
Rosenkranz, a New York na­
semester's course load. Also last week, The 
Besides producing the na­tive, arrived at Saint Mary's 
Guide was again being distributed to mailboxes 
tional play "Oleanna" for a when she was seventeen. After 
all over campus, so that students may be aided in 
Saint Mary's audience yester­suffering from the loss of her 
the process of choosing. 
day. Peggy Hill Rosenkranz. a father when she was twelve, 
The Guide is a student publication of course 
successful lawyer-turned-pro­Rosenkranz became de-ter­
evaluations, and contains assessments of sucP,
ducer. also presented another mined to commit her efforts 
factors as professors, texts, class requirements,
gift: a $1 mVlion contribution to towards her academics. These 
and difficulty of courses. 
the College. efforts were rewarded, and she 
Its purpose is to aid undergraduate students in 
Video cameras and reporters received a generous scholar­
the process of choosing courses by providing can­
from every major television ship to Saint Mary's. 
did, reliable information. This information is a 
station in the area crowded in After graduating from Saint 
compilation of student responses to question­
Regina Hall yesterday for Mary's with a major in Chris­
naires distributed to participating teachers. 
President William Hickey's dec­tian Culture, now known as 
A few changes were made to this year's edi­
laration of Rosenkranz's contri­Humanistic Studies, 
tion to facilitate use. Fonts have been changed to 
bution to Saint Mary's College Rosenkranz attended law 
make statistics easier to read. Information has 
to fund an endowed chair in school. Later she practiced 
also been organized by college this year, as 
the performing arts, which will corporate, criminal and enter­
opposed to the alphabetical order used in the last 
underwrite a professor's annu­tainment law. After retiring to 
two editions. 
al salary and support scholarly raise a family, she decided to 
According to Susan McCabe, co-commissioner 
research.. begin producing plays. 
along with Andrew Eifert, The Guide staff hopes 
Rosenkranz, a 1961 gradu­"Oleanna" is a play about the 
to include advertisements in the next edition, in 
ate, is the first alumna to fund contemporary concern of sex­
order to acquire funds for further improvements. 
an endowed scholarship. Her ual harassment. The play was 
McCabe said that students were very helpful in 
pledge will be a gift to the $30 performed in New York for six­
filling out the questionnaires which they
million Sesquicentennial Cam­teen months before kicking off 
received. She stated, however, that The Guide 
paign for Saint Mary's. its Midwest tour. Rosenkranz 
staff hopes· for more participation from profes­
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
The campaign, which was made certain that a perfor­
sors in the future. 
The Guide is a student publication which evaluates
initiated publicly just last mance at Saint Mary's 
McCabe estimated that about the same number 
the profes~ors, texts, and difficulty of University
month, is expected to last three O'Laughlin Auditorium was on 
of teachers volunteered to have their classes courses. 
to five years. Rosenkranz's do­the agenda. 
evaluated this year as in years past. With this 
who are looking for an honest evaluation of
nation is the largest thus far. "This play is so good intellec­
number, she says, all majors are not as well rep­
courses, however, he feels that The Guide is
"Saint Mary's gave me the tually. When you're a student, 
resented as The Guide staff would like. 
"very beneficial." 
confidence that built me up and you need to think. And 
Response from professors who were featured 
Professor Jay Brockman was listed as a mem­
made me the person that I am whether or not you like this 
in this edition of The Guide seems to be positive. 
ber of The Guide's "Hall of Fame" for receiving
today." Rosenkranz said. play, it will make you think," 
"It is good for students to hear from other stu­
an average overall rating greater than 4.5 on a 5
Through her contribution, said Rosenkranz. 
dents and for the faculty to be exposed to cri­
point scale. 
she hopes, Saint Mary's will be Besides the presentation of 
tique," said Professor Theodore Mandell whose 
Brockman believes that "students want to take
able to continue their tradition her pledge yesterday, 
course, Introduction to Film and Video 
good classes," even if that involves being chal­
of an excellent faculty and ad­Rosenkranz supplied the Saint 
Production, was evaluated, 
lenged. He feels that students use The Guide
ministration. Mary's community with some 
He does worry that students may use The 
wisely. Brockman's concern regarding the book
"The pledge is a signal of helpful advice. 
. Guide as a means of choosing classes based sole­
confidence and inspiration to 
ly on how easy they appear to be. For students 
see DONATION I page 4
the alumnae, students, and fac-see GUIDE I page 4 



Population problems prompt social questions 
Gospels."

Goulet: economy should focus on needs Church may 
Howard claimed that the solution to environmental
. 

By PATRICK BELTON last month in Cairo. lation and poverty both assault problems, such as global News Writer The earth is capable of sup­the limited natural resources of examine warming, will become increas­porting such a sizable human the environment. ingly difficult as population America must develop an population, Goulet said. "Kids are an economic asset," continues to grow. In this economy based on needs rather "[But] at what level of con­Goulet said. stand sense, Howard said that than on wants in order to sumption, and in what system A difference of opinion sepa­although parts of the ideal address the problems ac­of distribution?" he asked. rates those who believe policy solution are contained in the
By CHRIS CORRENTE 
companying the massive Ninety-five percent of the should attack population Church's teachings, the Church 
News Writer 

growth of population, Notre world's population growth growth indirectly by alleviating is a hindrance because of the Dame Professor Denis Goulet takes place in the nations of the poverty, and those who favor limitation of time. 
The recent alarming trend in
said last night. third world, so the question of attacking it directly through "This is something we must
population growth may
In fact, the overpopulation is intricately contraception and abortion. get right quickly or suffer its
"prompt the Church to recon­
World Bank linked to that of poverty, he This difference was very ap­consequences," Howard said. 
sider its positions on artificial
h a s said. parent at the recent Cairo con­Maura Ryan, assistant
birth control," according to
described Overconsumption by the ference in the battle between professor of theology. who,
George Howard, professor of
the unprece­wealthier nations is also at is­the United States and the Ro­along with Howard, led the
dented sue, since their citizens-while man Catholic Church. In the discussion, said that while the
growth in only constituting one-fourth of end, the Vatican only partially Church has never approved of 
the world's the earth's population-con­endorsed the conclusions of the the use of artificial birth con­
ed by a United Nations confer­
population sume two-thirds of its re­conference. trol, it has supported limiting
ence held in Cairo this past
as "the sources and produce three­Dr. Goulet pointed out that the population. She claimed
September in which worldwide 
greatest fourths of its pollution. Robert Malthus. a nineteenth that the voice of the Church
delegates met to discuss the
problem of population growth. 
The conference adopted a
Currently at 5. 7 billion, the entire forest in Papa New world's population would grow tence for an adequate
plan of action addressing
count of the human race may Guinea was destroyed to make faster than its food supply. approach to controlling the
negative and positive popula­
reach as much as 28 billion in chopsticks for Japan. "Since 1951, food production alarming growth. 
the next 150 years. Thanks to In spite of these two chal­has far outstripped popula­Ryan said that the Church
vaccines, better hygiene, and lenges, says the World Bank, tion," he said. has long presupposed what
tion to third world countries. 
cleaner water, population the governments of the world He noted that his interest in Cairo called a new consensus,
"While the Church's teach­
growth is occurring twice as must guide development in population growth and devel­that "birth rate control pro­
ing against artificial means of
birth control was quite appro­
priate for a far less densely
again before 2020. UNICEF has identified a vi­losophy. for an international commit­
populated world," Howard
The problems accompanying cious circle between popula­"Philosophers' big debates of ment" to solving the problem. 
said, "given the reality of the
this massive growth concerned tion, poverty, and environment: human reason and so forth are Ryan added, however. that
the governments of the world overpopulation leads to pover­being fought out in the ques­the Church has failed to take
enough to make them convoke ty; poverty brings about more tions of poverty," he said. 
Christianity within the 
an international conference population growth; and popu-see CHURCH I page 4 


.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, November 17, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Career and Placen1ent 
'questionable' 
As the end of the 
David Ring 
semester approaches. Assistant News 
most student's job 
searches are just getting ____E_d_to_r___ 
underway. For a liberal 
arts student this is especially challenging as 
you need to sell yourself to firms and busi­
nesses. 
It's even more challenging though when the 
people at Career and Placement do not seem 
to think you'll have too much luck. 
Most liberal arts students accept from the 
beginning that they will meet with certain dif­
ficulties upon looking for a job. Many compa­
nies that prefer to hire liberal arts students 
cannot afford to recruit on college campuses. 
It is also generally understood that publishing 
jobs and the like need to be sought out in the 
large cities such as New York or Chicago. 
Without a doubt there are limitations on 
how much a university can do in placing liber­
al art students in career track jobs. 
Yet this should not mean that a liberal arts 
major does not have a chance to secure a job 
from the confines of Notre Dame. But unfor­
tunately. the prevailing attitude in Career and 
Placement is far from encouraging for just 
these students. 
In last week's Scholastic the director of 
Career· and Placement, Kitty Arnold, blatantly 
described Arts & Letters students as having 
"questionable marketability." 
As a student in Arts & Letters, I would per­
sonally like to thank Ms. Arnold for her vote of 
confidence. I am sure all those here at Notre 
Dame choosing to major in the liberal arts 
would want to thank her as well. 
Career and Placement's negative attitude 
towards students seeking jobs with non-busi­
ness or non-computer related backgrounds is 
evident. Arts & Letters students are not made 
to feel overly comfortable in the basement of 
the Hesburgh Library. Admittedly, I had a 
good experience in meeting with a staff mem­
ber one on one for guidance, yet there is not 
much more support beyond that. I would like 
more than a small, crammed "career library" 
to assist me in finding work. 
A lot of great universities do not have 
undergraduate colleges of business. Schools 
like Northwestern and the University of 
Chicago, while having renowned MBA pro­
grams, do not even have an undergraduate 
school of business. What are their seniors 
doing in May? Are they feverishly hunting in 
a tiny "career library" through a book called 
"Jobs for English Majors and other Smart 
People?" 
No one denies a liberal art student's job 
search is very challenging. But this challenge 
is not made any easier when the Career and 
Placement services at your university does not 
encourage you. 
While more and more companies are mov­
ing towards hiring students with liberal arts 
degrees, Kitty Arnold still seems to think a lot 
of us here at Notre Dame may not be such a 
good investment with only our $80, 000 BA. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Accent Ethan Hayward Bevin Kavolik Liz Foran Brad Prendergast Graphics 
Tom Roland Lab Tech Brandon Candura Sports 
Tom Schlidt Production Heather Gibson Viewpoint Tara Grieshop 
Suzy Fry 
Tho Obsc:rm (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishd Monday through Friday «e<pt during <urn and V2Cation poriods. Tho Obsc:rv<r is a momb<r of tho Associatod Pr<Ss. All «production rights ar< r<S<rvd. 

• WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Gordon spawns deadly tornado in Florida 
BAREFOOT BAY, Fla. -=---------------winds remained at 50 mph. The tor-Dogs nosed through the wreck-Tornado in Florida nado bounced across a two-mile 
age of mobile homes today in a search for survivors of a tornado spawned by Tropical Storm 
Gordon that turned a retirement community into splintered trash. One person was killed. The twister touched down in Barefoot Bay, then ripped a path southeast through Snug Harbor Lakes, another retirement community. Fifty houses were destroyed and 100 others were damaged in the two clusters of mobile homes.The deadliest tropical storm of the sea­
son hit Florida after wreakinghavoc in the Caribbean. At least 
Tropical Stor~ Gordon spawned.a stretch of the state Tuesday 
tornado t.ha~ npped through a community In Barefoot Bay. 
GA. 
~------{.~-----. 
retirement evening. Officers and dogs searched Snug Harbor and Barefoot Bay this morning for people who may be trapped or dead, although everyone seems to be accounted for, sheriff's department spokeswoman Joan Heller said. More than 40 people were injured by the tornado. Six were in serious condition and two were in critical condition, Heller said. Neighbors identified the dead man as 74-year-old Jack Fuller. Doug Harrod said he found the 

'--~----------------l man's crushed body as he heard 
100 people were confirmed killed in Haiti, and the inde­pendent Radio Signal FM reported the death toll was at least 400. Two people died in Jamaica and two in Cuba. Gordon had turned back across Florida by 10 a.m. EST, moving ashore just south of Fort Myers and traveling northeast at 5 mph. The storm's maximum sustained 
Pesticide used on cereal oats 
ST. PAUL 

A businessman could be sentenced to five years in prison for spraying an unapproved pesticide on 19 mil­lion bushels of oats that went into Cheerios, Lucky Charms and other cereals. Y. George Roggy could also be fined more than $3 million. A federal jury found him guilty on Tuesday of food adulteration, misusing pesti­cides and 11 counts of mail fraud. Defense lawyer John Lundquist argued that Roggy's actions were similar to a cook substituting margarine for butter and maintained that the pesticide was safe for use on food. General Mills halted shipments in June of 50 million boxes of cereal made with the oats. The government said the· pesticide did not pose a health threat, and no boxes were recalled. Roggy was charged with spraying the oats with the unap­proved pesticide Dursban instead of Reldan, an approved but more expensive pesticide. He then pocketed $85,319 by billing General Mills for Reldan, according to the indictment. General Mills said it lost more than $140 mil­lion because of use of the unapproved pesticide. Prosecutors are seeking at least a five-year sentence, and Roggy could be fined up to $250,000 on the food adulter­ation conviction and each count of mail fraud and $5,000 on the pesticide charge. A sentencing date hasn't been set. 
Pope to make Asian pilgrimage 
VATICAN CITY 

Pope John Paul II will make an 11-day trip to Asia in January, the Vatican said today, in an an announcement intended to show the pontiff is able to resume grueling foreign travel. The trip to the Philippines, Papua New Guinea, Australia and Sri Lanka will be the pope's first foreign tour since he canceled a visit last month to the United States. The Vatican said that trip was scrubbed because of the 74-year-old pope's slow recovery from hip replacement surgery April 29. It denied persistent rumors that John Paul was seriously ill. John Paul, dur­ing a trip to Sicily 12 days ago, said he planned to travel to Manila to mark the church's World Youth Day. He didn't mention the other stops on the trip. The Vatican said he will fly to Manila on Jan. 11. He will go onto Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea, on Jan. 16, Sydney, Australia on Jan. 18, and Colombo, Sri Lanka. on Jan. 20. He plans to conduct beatification ceremonies in each country. The pope has had medical problems the past two years and has looked frail in recent months. He now walks with a cane. The Asian tour will be John Paul's first trip abroad since a weekend stop in Zagreb, Croatia 
AP/Carl Fox Fuller's wife calling for help. More than 8 1/2 inches of rain fell in Homestead, which sup­plies half of the nation's winter vegetables. About 15,000 South Florida customers remained without power this morning, the Florida Power & Light Co. said. Since the storm hit Monday, FP&L said, outages have hit 482,000 homes and businesses. 
Government tells woman she's dead 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. 

Her food stamps and Medicaid benefits have been rein­stated, but Mary Ellen Fish says she's still disturbed after receiving a government notice telling her she was dead. The 66-year-old heart patient said she received a letter Saturday from the Indiana Department of Welfare stating her benefits had been terminated because of "death of assistance group member." That's bureaucratese for say­ing someone is dead so they cannot receive any more benefits. "I got very upset and almost had another heart attack," Fish said. After two days still among the living, Fish on Monday called her caseworker, Mary Glass. who told her she didn't know how the mistake had happened but would check into it. Glass discovered that Mary Fish did die -Mary R. Fish. Glass said her office routinely reads newspaper obituaries to see whether a client has died. An obituary for Mary R. Fish, 68, of Fort Wayne, had run on Friday. Fish said her Social Security and Medicare benefits still may be in jeopardy, and she is try­ing to reach those offices to make sure the mistake isn't repeated. Glass said to her knowledge such a mistake hasn't happened before. She said it was rare for someone with an uncommon name like F·ish to fit Mary R. Fish's profile: same name, location, relatively same age and list­ed as dead. 
Consumer prices up in October 
WASHINGTON 

Consumer prices rose a tiny 0.1 percent in October as falling energy prices and moderation in food costs com­bined to give the country its best inflation performance in six months. The small increase in the Labor Department's Consumer Price Index, the government's most closely watched inflation gauge, was better than expected. Many analysts had been forecasting that October's increase would match a 0.2 percent September gain. Today's report was certain to provide ammunition to critics of the Federal Heserve who contend that the central bank is engaged in monetary overkill, boosting interest rates even though there is no evidence of escalat­ing inflation. The latest Fed rate hike occurred Tuesday when the central bank boosted two key rates by three­quarters of a point. It was the biggest increase in the Fed's discount rate, the interest it charges on bank loans, since May 1981. Major banks immediately followed suit by pushing their prime rate up by a similar three-quar­ters of a point to 8.5 percent, meaning that borrowing costs will be rising for millions of Americans. 

• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 17. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


Atlanta  75  57  Dallas  60  44  New Orleans 79  60  
Baltimore 73  46  Denver  42  18  New York  69  49  
Boston  68  44  Los Angeles 76  57  Philadelphia 69  46  
Chicago  48  33  Miami  83  75  Phoenix  76  58  
Columbus 60  43  Minneapolis 45  27  Roswell  74  57  

Thursday, November 17, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

MADD collecting Ordination of women debated 
By THERESA ALEMAN pastors; counselors and leaders opinion that women should not News Writer of prayer right now. They are be ordained priests. But I ac­

petitions for retrial 
ordained, not from the official cept the Church's teaching au­
By DAVE lYLER News Editor Mothers Against Drunk Driv­ing of St. Joseph's County is col­lecting signatures on petitions to urge county Prosecutor Michael Barnes to retry John Rita on a charge of leaving the scene of a fatal accident. Anyone interested in ·signing a petition can do so today at the Clay Township Fire stations at 18776 Cleveland Road and 18355 Auten Road. Petitions will be available all day today at the Cleveland Road site. Signatures will be gathered from 7 to 9 a.m., 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 3 to 6 p.m. at the Auten Road station. Rita 25, of Springfield, Vir­ginia and a 1994 graduate of Notre Dame Law School, was acquitted last week by a jury on a charge of causing the death of Mara Fox. Fox, an eighteen year old Notre Dame freshman, was  killed November 13, 1993, after she was struck by a car that left the scene of the accident. She and her friends were returning to campus from a Gra.pe Road restaurant, walking along Douglas Road, when the acci­dent occurred. The jury failed to reach a ver­dict on a second charge against Rita of leaving the scene, so a mistrial was declared. Barnes has the option to retry Rita on that charge. About 500 signaturt"ls have been collected already, accord­ing to St. Joseph' s County MADD coordinator Suzanne Bullock. MADD will deliver the signed petition to the county prosecutor's office at 10 a.m. Friday. Blank petitions may be ob­tained from the fire stations to collect additional signatures, Bullock said. The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report.  The Holy Spirit is dragging us, kicking and screaming, to change the status of women in the Catholic Church according to Father Tim Fitzgerald from the Center for Pastoral Liturgy. Fitzgerald, along with Laura Grimes, a PhD candidate and university theology teacher, dis­cussed the Church's refusal to ordain women as priests in "The Role of Women in the Church." "I am in a peaceful place about most issues within the Catholic Church after much tur­moil, questioning and praying," said Grimes. Women and men are of equal dignity and value and are equally created in the image of God in the eyes of the Catholic Church, she said. Pope John Paul II, in his statement concerning women in the priesthood, preaches gen­der equality but at the same time maintains that women cannot be ordained as priests, sighting two main reasons, said  Church authority, but from the bottom up; from their activity in parishes around the world." "Try as it might," said Fitzgerald, "the Church cannot make the question of change in leadership roles within the Church go away. The Church has changed its mind on enor­mous issues in the past, and it is now waiting for the Holy Spirit to tell us we can change our mind on this matter." "The responses Pope John Paul gives for why women can­not be ordained, reflect sim­plistic and selective readings of the New Testament." It does not follow that the first twelve followers of Christ were men therefore all subse­quent priests should be men, according to Fitzgerald. "I am planting the seeds. Preparing the next generation of ministers for the change that is needed. In my ministerial experience of the Church, our role has been to educate peo­ thority." "Because I respect and agree with Church teaching on other matters such as sexuality and abortion, I am willing to say, maybe I was wrong {about the ordination of women)," said Grimes. "I can see why people want abortion or why it is miscon­strued as being pro-women. But there are two main reasons why it is not pro-women, but rather harmful to women," she said. "First, is the scientific reality that what is aborted is a child. Second, the physical and psy­chological harms to women are too great. Men, as well as women, need to take respon­sibility for parenting, and par­enting must be a more honored duty. If, through abortion, we can now abandon our children, we are taking on a negative male role of abandoning chil­dren. This is not progress, it is a non-solution that hurts both men and women," she said.  
Have something to say? Use  Grimes. The first reason, she said, is  ple. In becoming educated, you have every right to raise ques­ Next, Grimes addressed the Church's stance on pre-marital  
Observer classifieds.  that Christ was widely recog­nized as countercultural, and therefore must have sur­ tions. To in fact become critical thinkers is what education is about. Asking questions is a  sex. "The Church holds that sex is a complete gift of self which is  
rounded himself with all male  skill necessary to becoming an  open to life.  It requires a mu­ 
The College ofArts and Letters  apostles for some reason other than to keep with a cultural tra­dition of sublimating women.  an~lytical thinker," he said. Impatience and disagreement are no reasons to walk away  tual responsibility and com­mitment of both men and women. It does not use a po­ 
The following courses will fulfill the literature requirement  The second reason given, she said, is the image of Christ as a  from something. Something is clearly dying in terms of old  tentially dangerous drug to make the woman sexually  
for the College ofArts and Letters. Foreign literature  bridegroom of the feminine  habits and traditions and some­ available."  
courses in either the language itself or in translation will  Church. This image, taken from Ephesians 5, calls for  thing is being born simul­taneously, said Fitzgerald.  The Church is defending im­portant values, according to  
satisfy the requirement if they are not used as a part of  mutual subordination within  When we have Church au­ Grimes.  
another majer or program.  marriage rather than for the dominance of one partner over  thority saying that these ques­tions must not be talked about,  She went on to note that the feminist characteristics of these  
the other.  "the natives are piling wood  teachings could not hail from a  
·  Disagreeing with Grimes'  around their [Church leaders]  sexist Church.  
Oassics &: Oriental  "peace" with the Church's posi­tion, Fitzgerald said, "Two  feet as they stand there with a cigarette lighter. These are  "It is incorrect to perceive the Church as not wanting to ad­ 
3522 3523 3526 3534 3535  COAT 450 COAT 452 COCG 325 COCL 325 COCL 415  Japanese Oassical Theatre Ideal of Feminine 0\lnese Ut. Greek Uterature & Stylistics Latin Uterature & Stylistics Roman Satire  popes in a row have given re­sponses to questions about women's roles that are quite frankly, not convincing people  questions that will not go away" said Fitzgerald. Grimes explained her accep­tance of the Church's position  dress equality or feminism. To the Church, feminism is not something evil or to be ignored. The pope supports equality  
3536  COCL 476  Oass Tradition Medieval Latin  at all... Women are serving as  saying, "It is not my personal  with his words," she said.  

3542  COCT 426  Latin Oassics In Translation  
3543  COCT 460  Greek Tragedy  
3546  COSA 401  Grammatical Analysis of Genre  
3548  CX)ST 405  Survey of Arabic Ut. In Trans.  
English  
4226  ENGL 300E  Med & Ren Arthurian Ut  
3598  ENGL 300F  Poetry & Subjectivity  
3599  ENGL 300G  Novels & Manifestoes  
2965  ENGL 316F  Latin-American Images of the US  
3601  ENGL 319  Multicultural Ut. of the SW  
2970  ENGL 319B  Ut. of the Frontier  
2971  ENGL 321B  Ibsen and After  
3602  ENGL 322B  20th Century British Novel  
3603  ENGL 324  Representation of Single Women  
2068  ENGL 325  Science Fiction  
3604  ENGL 340A  Shakespeare & Mythology  
3605  ENGL 372A  20th Century Irish Ut.  
3606  ENGL 379B  From Friday to Crusoe  
3607  ENGL 390  Ut of the Down & Out  
3608  ENGL 391C  Feminist Fiction  
3609  ENGL 393C  Contemporary Fiction  
German &: Russian  

3658 GE 471 20th Century Prose & Poetry 3659 GE 474 Contemporary German Novel I 3664 RU 476 20th Century Russian Ut. II (In English) 3656 RU 494 Tolstoy (in English) 3657 RU 496 Seminar: The Brothers Karamazov On English) 
Romance Languages: French 2176 ROFR 310Textual Analysis 2447 ROFR 372Readings In French Ut. II 3925 ROFR 426Medieval Ut.: 1100-1300 3926 ROFR 46419th Century Ut.: Poetry 4320 ROFR 479Reading Surrealism 
Italian 0327 ROIT 385 Survey of Modem Italian Ut. 

Spanish 0715 ROSP 238 Introduction Spanish Readings 2408 ROSP 310 Textual Analysis 0176 ROSP 319:01 Survey of Spanish Ut. II (in Spanish) 0637 ROSP 319:02 Survey of Spanish Ut. II (in Spanish) 1177 ROSP 329:01 Survey of Spanish-American Ut. II (In Spanish) 3939 ROSP 329:02 Survey of Spanish-American Ut. II (In Spanish) 3940 ROSP 416 Gender Identity in the Comedia 3941 ROSP 493 Historical Novel in Latin America 2003 ROSP 495 Social Justice & Spanish-American Authors 


ATTENTION JUNIORS 
(Any Major) 

Think it's too soon to start thinking about a summer job? 
WE DON'T THINK SO... 
Procter &Gamble, the Company that brings you such well-known brands as Tide, Crest, Folgers, Charmin, Secret, and Duncan Hines (to name just afew) is looking for qualified applicants to hire for summer internships. 
Ifyou are creative and can demonstrate leadership and initiative, stop by Career &Placement for more information about P&G and where to send your resume. 

Resumes Are Due By December 16th So Pick Up An Information Packet Today! 
page 4 

Donation 
continued from page 1 
"It is difficult for a women to manage a career and a family at the same time. There is no easy answer. I admire women with careers, but I think women are not assertive enough in their careers. We find it hard to assert ourselves around men. In order to achieve success we, as women, need to assert our­selves and to be more aggres­sive," she said. 
Rosenkranz was asked to Saint Mary's College by the Shannon Executive Scholar Se­ries. The series brings distin­guished alumna to the College to offer their insights and knowledge with the faculty, administration and students. 
Thursday, November 17, 1994

The Observer • NEWS 
Church 
continued from page 1 
serious active means of controlling population. 
They also do not realize the serious danger of multiple births in poorer countries, where the infant survival rate is low. 
According to Kathleen Maas Weigert of the Center for Social Concerns, who, with Father John Gerber, helped organize the discussion, the series in­vites the faculty to provide multi-disciplinary perspectives on timely ethical issues. 
Ryan joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1993, and Howard is the chairman of psychology 
Merry Christmas, Monk! 
and director of the Laboratory for Social Research. 
University president Fr. Edward Malloy receives a gold Christmas ornament from 7-year-old Erica Levine. 
• STUDENT SENATE 



Computerized GRE 
Shock to speak on safety 

Guide 
continued from page 1 

is that not enough teachers are aware of the significance of The Guide. He proposed that this situation could be remedied by distributing The Guide to facul­ty members as well as students. 
Student users of The Guide share the belief that the book would be improved with more teacher participation. Sopho­more business major, Tim Corbitt, says that he could not make many decisions based upon use of The Guide. 
"It doesn't have most of the teachers I want to look at," he said. "I mostly ask other peo­ple about courses." 
Karen Shaw, a sophomore majoring in psychology, echoed Corbitt's sentiment. 
"The information (The Guide) has is helpful," asserted Shaw, "but oon~ • ..Q.t\ht; fJ.afises I plan on taking next semester are in there." 
The Guide is sponsored by Notre Dame's Student Govern­ment. The staff welcomes any suggestions for future issues, and is looking for anyone who would be interested in writing and editing next year. 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
A resolution to have Lieu­tenant Dave Shock of the South Bend Police Department speak about security measures and personal safety on Notre Dame campus was unanimously passed at the Student Senate meeting last night. 
Shock, who is known as the voice for "Crime Stoppers," a radio program designed to in­corporate public help in solving crimes, has promoted com­munity service and public safe­ty in the greater Michiana area. 
"His efforts have contributed much to the well being of the Notre Dame family," according to the resolution passed by the Senate. 
It was resolved thatthe Stu­dent Senate will salute Shock and that he be seen as Notre Dame's "official crimestopper." The Senate formally adopted Shock as a member of the Notre Dame family as a result of its unanimous consent to pass the resolution. 
• 

Yesterday's Inside Column "Jt's time to learn from our mis­takes" by Edward Imbus stated that it was the collective respon-' sibility of the South Bend Police Department and South Bend City Council to deal with the perceived inadequacies of Douglas . Road and the maintenance of alcohol detecting devices. The portion of Douglas Road which lmbus referred to falls under the jurisdiction of St. Joseph County and not the City of Soutl} Bend, The Observer regrets this confusion. 

LOCAL & LONG DISTANCE TOWING VISA 
•JUMP STARTS 

•BRAKES • SHOCKS • EXHAUSTS 
10% OFF TOWING SERVICES WITH STUDENT 10 
COMPLETE AUTO REPAIR SERVICE 
TUNE UPS • CERTIFIED MECHANIC ON DUTY 


AIR CONDITIONING SERVICE COMPLETE ENGINE REPAIR LOCKED OUT? WE CAN HELP! 
277-1970 
Ironwood & Rt. 23 minutes from campus 


available next year
The resolution was submitted 
by Student Government Chief of Staff Tyler Farmer, Minister of By EDWARD IMBUS 
Defense G. David Angelich, and 
News Writer Student Body President David 
Hungeling. 
The days of number-two pen­

"It is our intention to have a cils and Scantrons will be no 
Dave Shock Day," Hungeling 
more for people taking the 

said. "We want to give some Graduate Record Exam. better 
attention to security issues 
known as the GRE, after its De­

since security measures are a cember 10 test date. 
hot topic on campus." .. 
After that, the GRE will grad­

Hungeling also mentioned ually become computerized.
having someone from Notre 
The pencil-and-paper test will 

Dame Security come and speak be entirely eliminated by 1997. 
on the same day. According to Farmer, Shock's The Educational Testing Ser­
wife, Wanda, is also involved in vice, or ETS, the corporation
securing public safety. She 
charged with administering the 

leads the narcotics division of GRE and most other national 
the South Bend Police, and she 
academic tests such as the 

gave a program on drug educa-· SAT's and MCAT's, also an­
tion to the resident assistants at nounced the cancellation of the 
Notre Dame, he said. 
February 1995 test in order to 

Having his wife involved in give time to prepare to give the 
the public safety department, 
test. 

"strengthens his (Shock's) ties 
Consequently, according to 

to the Jaw enforcement com­Jose Ferreira, the director of 
munity," Tyler said. 
GRE preparatory seminars for Kaplan Educational Centers, students wishing to avoid the computerized version must take the exam in December. 
"The computerized GRE does offer some benefits," he said. "Students have a wider choice of test dates and can get their scores back immediately." 
The new GRE, however, could make problems for some stu­dents, he continued, because the new format will not allow students to change their an­swers or make notes in a test booklet. 
The GRE is the first major national standardized test to shift to a computerized version, and Ferreira believes it may serve as a model for the other ETS tests to follow in the future. 


*Non-tobacco preferred rates 

value for you. 
Smoker rates available upon request. 
How Much Coverage Do You Need? Perhaps you feel you need more life insurance, but you are unsure as to how much coverage you should have. Call the Healy Company. We'll help you calcu­late the proper amount of coverage required to meet the needs of your family or business. We'll also help you structure your life insurance program to avoid pay­ing unnecessary taxes on the proceeds. 
Call For Equally Attractive Rates on Any Other Amount of Desired Coverage. 

219-289-4061


Richard Preuss, ClU, ChFC Randy ~Ill, ClU, ChfC 
Clan of '80, '82 Clusol'IB 

Male Female 
$198 $160 $198 $160 $245 $210 $475 $325 $1463 $773 

--~---~ -~--­
Thursday, November 17, 1994 The Observer. NEWS page 5 

Breweries consolidated by Industrial Revolution 
By EDWARD IMBUS News Writer 
A lecture on the economic history of American beer brew­ing, sponsored by the de­partment of economics, was given by graduate student re­searcher Martin Stack last Tuesday in Decio Hall. 
Formally entitled, "Does the brewing industry have a useful past?" Stack described the ini­tial economic setting of America as " ... filled with small, inefficient firms," which were forced to give way during the industrial revolution. 
The industrial revolution brought larger and far more efficient firms, which were also able to utilize the new infras­tructure of the United States, such as the expanding railway system. Accordingly, Stack said, industries became concen­trated into fewer firms rapidly. 
The brewing industry was among the industries that be­came concentrated. The num­ber of breweries producing a significant amount of beer tum­bled from 4,000 in 1800 to 2,000 in 1877, and kept falling to today's five major breweries. 
During certain periods of the brewing business' history, how­ever, the usually steady decline of small businesses were dis­rupted, and the small firms were more competitive than the powerful national powerhouses during those times. 
Three major factors influ­enced these unusual economic statistics, Stack asserted. First, government regulations in­creased throughout the history of brewing, peaking with the constitutional amendment ere­ating Prohibition and the amendment of Prohibition's repeal. During the time directly before Prohibition, the beer in­dustry as a whole had an 83 percent growth rate, while An­heuser-Busch enjoyed only 38 percent growth. 
Other government regulations affecting the brewing industry included the Sherman Anti­trust Act, which forced a halt of brewery-owned saloons, which accordingly sold only its owning brewery's beer. Large firms, with more capital on hand, were able to exploit this across the nation until the federal gov­ernment demanded they stop. 
The second factor Stack spoke of was the invention of new technology for the beer industry, mainly the ability to package beer in containers other than kegs without 

Women's roles questioned 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
Challenging the audience to think about whether women deserve to be ordained in the Catholic Church, a lecture "What if... the Professions Treated Women as the Catholic Church Does?" took place Wednesday night at the Hes­burgh Library Auditorium. 
The lecture was led by William Lewers, C.S.C. Law School; Sandra Yost, graduate student, Engineering; Ken Mi­lani, professor, Business School; and Bridget Deegan, Master of Divinity Program. Each speaker discussed the ad­vances of women in their own particular fields along with ex­amining the possibilities of women in the Church. '1 
All four speakers expressed the attitude that although many changes have occurred, a lot still needs to be done. 
"I believe that law and all the other professions would be much poorer without women, and with more and more women entering into these pro­fessions, there will be changes for the better" said Lewers. 
Deegan most carefully exam­ined the dilemma of women not being allowed to be ordained. As a Master of Divinity student, she personally feels the unfair­ness of the Church's actions. 
"The injustice smacks me in the face that the Church claims I cannot image Christ because of my gender" said Deegan. 
With an uncertain future ahead of her, Deegan chal­lenged the audience to ac­knowledge that until women are recognized in the Church, women are symbolically limited to being only paralegals or sec­retaries, rather than achieving everything they want. 
But however much this per­sonally affects her, Deegan be­lieves this issue is "not simply about me. The community needs good people who are called to leadership and we should not reject anyone simply because of gender." 
When faced with the ques­tion of whether they thought the Church's position would change in the future, the panel could only respond with mere speculation. 
"Since the Church is not an organization structure, if peo­ple change, so will the rest. If a person serves me in a way that I want to be served, he or she has ordained me, and I think these sort of changes will occur before the Church for­mally does" said Milani. 
Even with all the problems facing this issue, the panel re­mained optimistic. 
"Everyone I've had contact with, such as my family, friends, mentors, all of whom are faithful Catholic people, have affirmed my calling," said Deegan. 
"We can't wait for the men in the Vatican to change. We must start claiming our bap­tismal rights now," Yost said. 
degrading its taste, and home refrigeration. 
"Keg beer was cheaper and qualitatively better at the time," Stack noted, "and therefore all beer was beer from tap." 
However, even though some quality was lost in bottling, hav­ing bottled brews became a fad when the upper class socially took over drinking beer from tap, and the working class turned to drinking packaged products. 
Small firms raced to get this new selling phenomenon, which also attracted a larger price that people were willing to pay. Home refrigeration allowed the beer to be kept personally instead of being kept on ice in saloons or hotels. 
A transportation cost analysis cannot be used to explain this, said Stack, and bewildered large firms hesitated joining the trend to bottle because they worried about losing their faith­ful clientele. Michelob, for instance, was introduced in 1890, but wasn't bottled until the 1960's because Anheuser Busch was concerned about losing its taste and fragrance in the process. 
The fmal factor were cultural influences on the industry. Many immigrant groups, for instance, became loyal to small ethnic businesses in their ar­eas, including breweries, Stack said. 
Stack's analysis and its con­tinued sponsorship by the department of economics makes Notre Dame a new rising center of research in this field. 
"This research mandated sev­eral field samplings," Stack jok­ingly said. 
Ukraine approves Non­Proliferation Treaty 
By LIAM McDOWALL 
Associated Press 
KIEV 

Progress in worldwide nu­clear arms reduction got a major boost Wednesday with the Ukrainian parliament's long-awaited approval of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. 
The action, on a 301-8 vote, puts the world's third-largest nuclear power firmly on the road to total nuclear disarmament. The former Soviet republic of 52 million people now is obliged to get rid of its nuclear weapons by about the turn of the century. 
Coming after months of in­tense lobbying by the interna­tional community, especially the United States, it also is a significant step in strengthen­ing ties with the West. 
President Leonid Kuehma, spurred on by Western sup­port for his economic reforms program, had staked a great deal of his political credibility on steering the treaty through an often recalcitrant parliament. 
"It's the first time in history that a state that owns nuclear weapons is voluntarily giving them up," Kuchma said after the vote. 
Ukraine inherited an arse­nal of 176 nuclear missiles and around 1,800 nuclear warheads when the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. 
The nation has dismantled an estimated 400 of the war­heads and sent them to Russia as part of an agree­ment among Washington, Moscow and Kiev. But it had hesitated in ratifying the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Officials cited insufficient fmancial compensation and a lack of security guarantees. 
Foreign Minister Hennady Udovenko told legislators before the vote, however, that after months of negotia­tions, the United States, Britain and Russia had pro­vided satisfactory guarantees hours earlier. France will provide a similar assurance later, he said. 
~ 

THE FINANCE CLUB PRESENTS GUEST SPEAKER: RogerF.~c~ahon'61 Executive Vice-President Sanwa Securities (USA) Co.,L.P. SPEAKING ABOUT: *THE CHANGING FIELD OF BUSINESS *YOUR ND EDUCATION & THE WORKPLACE *EXTERN SHIPS Thursday, NOV. 17, 1994 THE SORIN ROOM IN LAFORTUNE 7:00PM  

page6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, November 17, 1994 
U.N. responds to Iraq's GOP will adhere to agenda 
By JOHN KING publican midterm sweep. on a constitutional amendment
recognition of Kuwait 
Associated Press Now, if Republicans rush for­allowing organized school 
By DONALD SWINTON 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
The U.N. Security Council on Wednesday called Iraq's recog­nition of Kuwait "a significant step." Diplomats said the ges­ture could hasten the end of sanctions that have crippled the Iraqi economy. 
In a carefully-worded state­ment. the 15-member council said it would closely monitor Iraq's pledge last week to ac­knowledge Kuwait's sovereign­ty and borders. 
"The Security Council wel­comes this development," said the statement. reached after three days of discussion. It was signed by U.S. Ambassador Madeleine Albright, the coun­cil's president. 
Iraq's recognition of neigh­boring Kuwait is a fundamental step to lifting the oil embargo and other economic sanctions imposed after Iraq's Aug. 1990 invasion of Kuwait. New Zealand Ambassador Colin Keating said outside the council chamber. 
Be said the U.N. Commission monitoring Iraq might report by March that all U.N. require­ments had been met for lifting the sanctions. 

Russian Ambassador Sergey Lavrov added that "recognition of Kuwait was considered by everybody as a crucial issue ... Until and unless Kuwait was recognized, it was evident that council members would not reach consensus on moving on lifting the sanctions." 
Iraq abandoned its long standing territorial claims to Kuwait a week ago, hoping to win an end to the four-year-old sanctions that have strangled its economy. 
Diplomats noted, however, that Iraq's change in policy came only after Iraqi President Saddam Hussein recently again ordered thousands of troops toward the Kuwaiti border. 
After the United States sent thousands of troops to defend Kuwait, the Iraqis backed down and withdrew. 
"It is a pity that the decisive step forward should have been preceded last month by mili­tary posturing which brought back the unhappy memories or August 1990," French Ambas­sador Jean-Bernard Merimee said earlier this week. 
WASHINGTON 
Mindful of the damage Presi­dent Clinton suffered in the gays-in-the-military debate, Republican leaders are deter­mined not to wander far from their budget and government reform agenda into fights over abortion and other divisive so­cial issues. 
Their caution reflects a desire to solidify the GOP's newfound support among white women. to avoid overreaching the man­date of their midterm gains. and to deny Democrats an early opening to re-energize their despondent base. 
Much of this approach stems from the GOP's analysis of Clinton's early efforts to allow homosexuals to serve openly in the military. The effort sent Clinton's support among white men, and across the South, into a tailspin from which the presi­dent has yet to recover. 
And it invigorated conserva­tive groups, particularly the Christian Coalition and other religious conservative groups, and these organizations were significant players in the He-ward with a controversial social agenda, "it could excite our forces and help us organize for the next elections," said Ann Lewis, a veteran Democratic strategist and a senior official at Planned Parenthood. 
So far. Rep. Newt Gingrich, who will become House speaker in January. has kept his focus mostly on economic and reform issues. Gingrich has offered vague criticisms of liberal hous­ing and education programs but with the exception of school prayer and welfare reform, two popular ideas, has spoken spar­ingly about social issues. 
"We cannot replace the social engineering by the left with a social engineering of the right." Gingrich said Tuesday night. 
The House GOP agenda does include social policies certain to prove controversial. But in picking the.se battles, Gingrich and his allies were careful to put reform items first and then choose social issues that enjoy substantial if not overwhelming support in public opinion polls -though vehemently opposed by liberals. 
Gingrich, for example, wants the House to vote by early July prayer. Liberal groups oppose the amendment but President Clinton said Tuesday he is open to the idea, suggesting there will be no unified Democratic opposition. 
Another provision in the House GOP's 100-day blueprint that is opposed by some liberal groups would allow parents to exclude schoolchildren from federal surveys they find objec­tionable because of questions about sexual behavior. 
As for abortion, Republicans expect some conservatives to push for restoration of the "gag rule" prohibiting clinics that receive federal funding from advising pregnant women about abortion. 
But Gingrich's leadership team, according to aides, has made it clear in meetings that it does not favor such moves, at least in the short term. 
"It's a sensitive subject in our caucus." said one leadership aide, speaking on condition of anonymity. "We won't know for sure until everyone is back in Washington but we think peo­ple understand the need to pro­ceed carefully here." 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
ADD A RISK TO YOUR SCHEDULE 
We approach that time of the year again -making decisions and plans for 
next semester. Many variables may come into play. Do you have a good 
enough DART time to get into the 10:00 section instead of the 8:00? If the 
I 0:00 is closed, can you take the class next year, or will you be setting that 
alarm considerably earlier than you would prefer? Should you get your fine 
arts requirement out of the way or take a philosophy course? 
While you set up your academic, work study, volunteer and play time, please stop to consider adding something new. It's called Communities NO. Started in January 1993, Communities NO offers undergraduates at Notre Dame a way to form great connections with one another, often with people you might otherwise never have met. In groups ofeight to ten men and women who meet together every other week, conversations go beyond -way beyond ­those "five basic questions": name, hall, hometown, year and major. It's a more realistic way to meet good friends than an SYR (and you don't have to get dressed up!), and it's much easier to hear each other than in a roomful of people squished together with lots of beer and a very large CD player. 
Communities NO is an opportunity-we believe, a wonderful opportunity 
-to meet new people, to read the Gospels with others, to talk and learn 
about your faith, and perhaps to reach out together to others. As one student 
said of Communities NO the other night, it's a chance to form relationships 
in a different way, because we don't easily talk about our faith together. 
Good relationships involve risks: think about the last time you shared a secret, or let another person get to know your weaknesses as well as your strengths. However, good relationships can also be fulfilling and challenging-they can make us much better people that we would be otherwise. Jean Vanier, that very holy man who won the Notre Dame Award last spring, says that in community, we discover that "a community is not simply a group ofpeople .. . it is a current of life, a heart, a soul, a spirit. It is people who love each other a great deal and who are all reaching towards the same hope. We have no need to play a role, to pretend to be better than the others, to demonstrate prowess in order to be loved. We have discovered that we are loved for ourselves, not for our intellectual or manual skills." 
Communities NO is about to "launch" a third group of small communities. Nearly 200 people came in 1993 and 1994 to give Communities NO a try­
that's almost 400 undergraduates who have been willing to take a risk, to at least dip their toes in the water. As the ingredients of next semester fall into place, think about including Communities NO in the mix. Sign ups for Communities NO are from November 28 to December 20 (after Thanksgiving till the end of the semester), in either campus Ministry office -Hesburgh Library or Badin Hall. Any undergraduate is most welcome to sign up. Campus Ministry will set up the groups according to your class year and your schedule. On January 21, 1995, at the third annual Communities NO Rally Day, you'll meet the members ofyour new community and get started. Think about taking this wonderful chance-it could be one of the best decisions you make for next semester! 
Kate S. Barrett 

SOLEMNITY OF CHRIST THE KING LASTSUNDAYIN ORDINARY TIME 
Music at the Basilica Notre Dame Liturgical Choir Reunion Concert Friday, November 18, 8:45p.m. Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart ALL ARE WELCOME!  
Thankse:iving Dav Mass Thursdar,November 24, 11:3n a.m. Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart ALL ARE WELCOME!  
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA Sat. Nov. 19 5:00p.m. Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. Sun. Nov. 20 8:00 a.m. Rev. Joseph Walter, C.S.C. 10:00 a.m. Bishop John D'Arcy, D.O. 11:45 a.m. Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C.  
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 1st Reading Deuteronomy 7: 13-14 2nd Reading Revelations 1:5-8 Gospel John 18: 33-37  




VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, November 17, 1994 page7 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chlef Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager......................Ryan Maylayter Spans Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... ~izabeth Regan Conuoller..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of o:he Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of o:he Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions o:hrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• I, FARRINGTON 
Finding yo' identity aint that hard 

It's not often that a work of art changes your life. Keats read Chapman's Homer; Bach heard Mozart, or vice versa. I felt this way when I first heard Clarence Carter's Patches. What pathos! What inspiration! I feel like my life has meaning again. 
Have you ever heard this song? I caught it for the first time in the act of driving, steering down Warrick Street and fumbling hope­lessly with the dial. The rap sta­tion: "I 
WANT
GANGSTAA ================= 
Patches! I'm 
BITCH!" Switch. Rock 
Josh

music: "I GO OUTSIDE, AND I GET REAL HIGH! AND I 
OzerskySAY HEY!" Switch. "Classic rock": 
"SUNDOWN, YOU BETTER TAKE CARE ... " Switch. I had begun to despair of hearing anything that would raise my spirits, or at least keep me from running over the first person I could find. And then that magnif­icent spoken -word beginning: 
When I was a young boy growing up in Alabama. I was so poor dey used to call me Patches ... 
I immediately pulled over to the side of the road. Tears misted in my eyes. They used to call him Patches! I remember when I was a young boy, growing up in Miami, they used to call me "El Maricon," and pelt me with ham rinds. I know what it's like to feel outcast, too. Just like Patches. 
My poppa was a great old man! I can see him wif a shovel in his hand! 
The pathos of the agricultural worker is, of course, one of the greatest tragedies of America. But what of the children of these work­ers? I too. coming from a working­class background in Atlantic City, where my father is a stagehand employed by Merv Griffin's Resorts International. Hence the frisson of empathy when Patches says, "One day poppa called me to his dyin' bed/Put his hand on my shoulder and in tears he said... " (Here the 
music swells) 
dependin' on you son! 
I tried to do my best-it's up to you to do de rest! 
I have yet to encounter the 
filial torment that Patches encounters next. But my trembling hands gripped the steering wheel as Patches went on to tell of his father's passing. And then a moment of indecision I know all too intimately: Patches thinks of quitting school. But, fortunately for him, "dat was daddy's strictest rule." Every time Patches thinks of turning aside from his oppressive duties, the ap­parition of his father appears to this Alabaman Hamlet: 
But I would remember what mah daddy said Wif tears in his eyes on his dying bed He said, "Pat~~es! I'm depend­ing on you son ... 
Depending! On Patches! Ah, what the human spirit can endure. I myself have known few enough trials-oh, a few boring books, a missed conference paper, an abort­ed love affair, etc.-but nothing of the sort of soul-trying woes that Carter's narrator so inspirationally triumphs over. Even as I write this, my pulse quickens with excitement and I have to walk around the room to calm myself. Often, our problems seem inconse­quential when we hear of others, infinitely worse, troubles. Here I thought I was in trouble, what with the Republicans taking over the country and the winter setting in, and probably a meteor hurtling toward earth too. But such is the power of Art to bring one out of narrow concern with self and into the sheer existential pain of the human condition. The very ele­ments themselves seem to mock Patches: 
Then one day a strong rain came and washed all de crops away ... 
"At the age of thoiteen," Patches says. "I thought I was carrying the weight of the world on my shoul­ders." Did any mythological Atlas ever bear more weight than this simple man of the soil? The fun­damental bounds of earth, of fami­ly, of life and death are manifest in Patches' tale. 
Every day I had to woik de fields! Cause dat's de only way we got our meals! 
It is such works as Carter's Patches, I would submit, that most wholly fulfill the function of a Catholic university. For human­ism, go to Patches. For cultural insight, go to Patches. For insight into rural life, go to Patches. Patches has all the answers. We're all depending on him. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate stu­dent in history. 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
I THIN!< I GOT7H& 616 NH&N 5/XAN[).5W­t{}()NO£RR.Jf-.
I COUWN'T eei.-/&V/3 

I lOW 7HEM I HA!JN'TRl'AP avr f3{}(PSI8, /../!<& 7H&
I tt14~ CHOSI3N, 8.1?. / 

A N/3WSPAP&I<. IN Y&A/<5. 7H5Y Yaf{AN78(3 WA/..'S NOT
I MeAN, EV/3,eYON& U/4~ 

AU JU§TSl£M&/? 70 f.j(jHTtJP. TJf/0 A/..7l3R.­A77JTAL.?fXJ
NA?l3A77ll& 

A/..R£APY.
/ 
5AM&T/M13. 

\ 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The day that the black 
man realizes that he's within his rights, when his own freedom is being jeopardized, to use any means necessary to bring about his own freedom or put a halt to injustice, I don't think he'll be by himself." 
-Malcolm X 

..---------------------------------------~---------------------------------­



VIEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, November 17, 1994 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Computing guidance appreciated 
Dear Editor: 

We are writing in response to the Inside Column written by Ciscley Elliot on Nov. 15 entitled "The love-hate relationship of computing." In her article, Elliot accuses OUC computer consul­tants of being "as dense as the poor distraught students." We regret that Elliot had an unpleas­ant experience with our cluster, but can assure you that her expe­rience is not indicative of the norm. 

The two major charges that Elliot raises are that cluster con­sultants are not willing to help her and that they are not knowl­edgeable enough to answer some specific questions. While Elliot has the right to express her dis­satisfaction with OUC consultants, her views do not represent those of the majority of cluster users on campus. 
Each semester, the Office of University Computing conducts a campus-wide survey of computer users and asks them to rate their experiences with OUC clusters and consultants. Last year, when asked how often consultants are willing to help, 93.8 percent of cluster users surveyed responded either "often" or "always." Similarly, when asked to rate how often consultants are able to give requested assistance, 94.1 per­cent of those surveyed responded "often" or "always." Any organi­zation that can say it satisfies 94 percent of its customers should be proud of its level of service. 
Obviously, each consultant can not master every one of the hun­dreds of software packages avail­able on campus. For this reason, clusters are staffed with two or more consultants during peak usage hours. lf-Dne of the consul­tants on duty is not available to answer a specific question, each cluster maintains a library of manuals for the software com­monly used in the cluster. 
Elliot also asks two questions about cluster consultants: "Where does the University-find thes!J people?" and "Why do they give them such cushy jobs while peo­ple like me have to slave at the North Dining Hall?" The answers to these questions are quite sim­ple. At the end of each school year, the Office of University Computing conducts a campus wide recruiting drive to staff the clusters for the coming academic year. Prospective consultants are asked to fill out an on-line appli­cation on any OUC cluster Macintosh. The cluster managers review these applications and then call in those consultants who seem qualified for a personal interview. They then hire the necessary number of consultants from this pool. 
Elliot herself states that she "could never understand a slide rule." Perhaps this is a reason that she is not an OUC consultant. If she is unhappy with her pre­sent job, we invite her to take the initiative and look around campus to find which of the many avail­able employment opportunities is most attractive to her. 
MIKE CHAPPLE 
DAVE DETTORE 
Clusrer Consulranrs 
Don't let one instance ruin entire experience 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the insults hurled at computer consultants by Ciscley Elliot in the Inside Column on Nov. 15, 1994. I have been a consultant for two-and-a-half years, and I would like to respond to some of her unwar­ranted attacks. 
Maybe it is "just because [she is] so obviously a fresh­man" that she does not know that we, as consultants, are not required to know every service available on the internet (of which there are thousands, at least), or every program that exists (their numbers are also in the thousands). We are also students, and our job is to help the users to our best ability. We increase our knowledge by attending class­es about certain frequently used, OUC-supported software packages and services. This maximizes our ability to assist users. 
Through personal experience, some consultants are more knowledgeable of certain packages and services than oth­ers, and so if we can help a user with a non-supported pro­gram we will. The IRC is not such a service. It is merely a "chat channel" that allows a person to join different con­versations about certain topics (some of which I'm sure your mother would not approve). Both at Notre Dame and at other schools, it is not necessary to subscribe to IRC to talk to your friends. 
Maybe Elliot encountered one or two consultants who seemed "as dense as the poor distraught students," or maybe they were just having a bad day (it happens to the best of us). Either way, she has no call to lump every con­sultant into a category that bears the description "lazy, non-science majors [science majors DO work in the labs], clueless sods ..." 
I am not insulting the "slave[s] at the North Dining Hall," but they do not have to be evaluated on their progress and techniques twice a semester. They are not initially hired on the basis of their specific skills, as computer consultants are, and they are not required to attend classes designed to improve their knowledge and abilities. Maybe if Elliot spent more time working and less time chatting on the ever-so-addictive Internet, she could get one of the consul­tant jobs that she thinks are so "cushy." But she'd better learn a little about computers first. 
MICHELLE MUDRY 
Clusrer Consulranr 
LaFonune Compmer Cluster 
• OuR TuRN 


What being Catholic means in the face of tragedy 
If the discussion about the Catholic character of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's appears unending, that is because one can never get to the bottom of questions about identity-whether of individuals or institutions. The process of exploring the issues of Catholic identi­ty, however, need not be only academic or just tedious. We could teach ourselves to look for signs of autheQtic Catholic life (or become sensitive to their absence) in the ordinary events around us. After all, what a college or university explicitly teaches about Catholic belief is not all that matters, though indeed it matters. How we live from day to day is the ulti­mate test of Catholic fidelity. 
From the countless experiences that could be considered in relation to the question of the Catholic character of SMC and NO, today there is one type of event on which I want to reflect. Is there anything that exhibits a Catholic sensibility in the way we respond to tragedy? At a later time I'll write about our response to national or global cata­strophes. But for now, let's think of situ­ations closer to home: the swim team's bus accident not so long ago; the sudden death of your roommate's mother; the diagnosis that you or someone you love has cancer; the divorce of your parents; the suicide of someone who is clinically depressed although you can't recognize it as a disease rather than "the blues." The list could go on forever, but you get the point. An informed and impartial observer visiting these campuses could say when these things are happening in Le Mans or Flanner Hall or wherever, "You surely know this is a Catholic place by the way people respond." 
In my estimation, the ND-SMC commu­nity never shows itself more Catholic than in such situations of desperate human sufTering. (One could simply say "Christian," rather than "Catholic," although there is a point in specifically invoking the word "Catholic," especially because tragedies involve rituals.) In most cases where tragedy strikes SMC or NO, we appear to rise to the occasion in a genuinely Catholic way. (And in saying "we" I mean all of us: the student body as well as the administration, fac­ulty and staff.) 
People come out of the woodwork for funerals which are planned and carried out with consummate Catholic good taste. The counseling services shift into high gear and develop strategies for 

Elena Malits 
helping groups to cope with grief. RAs are heroic in talking with suffering stu­dents. Administrators not infrequently, though very quietly, aid families with financial, medical, or legal assistance. And students help one another in remarkable ways. Think of the response to Mara Fox's death or the general indignation at the jury's verdict regard­ing the recent trial. (And note the appre­ciation of parents in tragic situations in the letters to The Observer.) Remember the huge T -shirt sale to raise money for the victim of a hit-and run accident whose family lived half-way around the world? And I am always impressed with the specificity of prayers of the faithful at the celebration of Eucharist in resi­dence halls: "for John Harvey, deceased grandfather of Susan Browning; for Tom Miller's brother and sister in-law whose infant son, Mark, contracted the AIDS virus." 
There have been two tragic deaths within recent months that for me poignantly exhibit t_he Catholic character of SMC and NO. Last spring, Professor Liz Noel of the SMC English department died after a long bout with cancer. Her colleagues were with her day and night in the hospital as death approached. Liz's funeral in the Church of Loretto was exquisite, but what impressed me most about the response of the SMC community to her death was the wake service. 
Liz had no family in South Bend. The College provided its elegant Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall for the service. The only other wakes I can remember being held there were for Sister Madeleva and Marion McCandless, the great lady who gave her life to building the Alumnae Association. Liz had dedi­cated her life in an exceptional way to teaching at Saint Mary's and so it seemed appropriate to honor her by holding the wake in such a special place. But even more, I was struck by the Catholic sensibilities of the members of the English department who planned the service-even though several of them are not Catholic. Liz's colleagues and students. read selections from the Scriptures and also from her favorite pieces of Victorian literature, which Liz Noel had taught so vigorously. I was moved by the sensitivity of the selections and the passion of the readers. But the moment that moved me to tears came at the end. Instead of some closing hymn from one of the standard books, a recording was played. Liz had been an ardent opera lover. At the wake they played her favorite aria, "I Live for Art" from "Tosca." 
What made that wake service so pro­foundly Catholic for me was how it was made genuinely personal. This wake was more than "liturgically correct"; that gathering expressed the uniqueness of the person being waked and the char­acteristic Catholic sense of the bonding of a community by ritual. And what a ritual: the best of the Catholic tradition to honor such a cultured Catholic woman. 
The other event I think of is very recent and personally painful for me to write about. Jean Jin, a thirty-five year old Chinese woman who worked for campus ministry at University Village, serving a highly international communi­ty of graduate student families. I came to know well her and her husband as strong, generous, committed indlviduals. She fell prey to the worst sort of bio­chemical depression, and for a relatively short period of time was utterly unlike her cheerful, energetic, enthusiastic self. The University's response to the devas­tating end of her life was as beautiful as it was powerful. And I would insist that this response was very Catholic. The campus ministry staff, of which she was a part, organized services and a funeral that did them proud. The families in University Village reached out to each other in their pain and did the sorts of things for each other that Jean had always encouraged them to do. Except for her loving husband, Jean's whole family was in China. But language about "the Notre Dame family" (that some­times sounds so trite), was never more real and vibrant. To have been part of the events surrounding her death and to witness the delicate yet profound man­ner in which people responded, make me feel in my guts the Catholic charac­ter of this place. No policy statement, however eloquent, does that. 
Elena Malits, C.S.C., is a professor of religious studies at Saint Mary's. Our Turn is a weekly. rotating column addressing the Catholic Character of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Communities. 

-~---------------"-~---------------­
ACC~NT 
Thursday, November 17, 1994 page9 

Frente: A band that once played for pool sharks now jams with The Violent Femmes 



SUB Dessert Theater provides food .... for thought and the sweet tooth 
By DAN CICHALSKI one of three additional works. Accent Writer Over 600 actors audition each year with the hopes of joining 
"Play it again, Sam." For clas­the players for their nine­sic-movie aficionados, that month tour. The actors in last often-heard line spoken by night's show, directed by Humphrey Bogart represents Gregory Hinojosa, were Daniel the end of the still-popular war­Bakkedahl. Angel Maclean, time movie Casablanca. But Penny Walton, and Brent since 1969 it has also been the Petersen. title of a Woody Allen play, which was performed last night In bringing "Play It Again, as the centerpiece for the Sam" to Notre Dame, SUB Student Union Board's Dessert added its own unique theme for Theater. the night. For five dollars, stu­
"Play It Again, Sam" is a com­dents were offered all they edy about a movie critic who could eat from a dessert menu has had bad luck when it comes that included cake, pastries, to women. Allan Felix, the fruit, and flavored coffees. play's hero, calls on the ghost Dessert started at 7:30 p.m. of Bogart in his imagination and was available throughout and uses him for guidance and the two-hour performance advice in his quest to find a .t! which began at 8 p.m .. lovely young lady. Allen cast himself as the pro­(1992), and Scenes From a Mall troupe that tours throughout 
Set entirely in Felix's apart­tagonist in the drama that (1991). the United States and Canada. With dessert and live, funny 
By ROB ADAMS Music Critic 
Frente's raw. acoustic, and uncommonly Australian sound has been capturing the imagi­nations of American audiences since their first import to the States. It was the exposure of their radio-friendly version of New Order's "Bizarre Love Triangle," however, which gave them the status they have today. 
Now on tour here in America first with They Might Be Giants, and next with The Violent Femmes, and planning a spring 
U.S. tour on their own, Frente's fan base is growing faster than ever. With Angie Hart's child­like yet intellectual lyrics and the carefully constructed "anti­rock" sound built around her quirky vocals, Frente has a unique folksy groove seldom heard from anyone else. 
In a phone interview, I had the chance to ask Hart and Simon Austin (guitar, vocals, programming) a few questions: 
How did Frente get its start? 

Simon: It was about five years ago and we used to meet at this bar called the Punter's Club. We would just plug in some instruments and play. at first we were just a joke. We were playing to a bunch of drinking pool players. Actually the Punter's Club is kind of a grunge bar now. Anyway, eventually we found Angie and got "Labour of Love" (their first EP) together. 
Angie. when you joined the band you were only a teenager. How has working with this band at such a young age affected how you grew up? 
Angie: It has definitely made me a lot more confident. It's really helped me figure out what I'd like to do with my life. 
Has becoming fairly famous and traveling to all these differ­ent places changed the way you write your lyrics? 
Angie: If anything, it's made me even more introspective, like from hanging out with adults all the time. 
What were your influences to develop the stripped down sound that you have? 
Simon: In my house there was always some early folk playing. There was so much heavy music back then. It was stripped down and very wordy. We wllnted to make our music like that: very important to hear the lyrics. 
Is there a large barrier trying to be an Australian band who gets heard outside of Australia? 
Simon: Well, in Australia we get a lot of U.S. music. We don't get to hear new bands though, that's the difference. But there are some small logis­tic problems. Marvin (their first full-length recording) was out for two years in Australia before it could actually be sold in the States. It took us a long time to find an American record company who could give us what we wanted. We defi­nitely wanted to be included in the U.S. scene; the scene here is just bubbling over, there's just so much good stuff here. 
How are you perceived in Australia? 
Angie: Well, we're not huge but we're about middle-range, I'd say. We put out our first EP a long time ago. People were noticing us and everything, but now they know we have U.S. exposure and people are respecting us a little more. We're not that famous though. 
What is it like to tour with The Violent Femmes? 
Simon: Well, we had toured with them in Australia before and they're just amazing. They have their own world. So many subcultures exist throughout 
Angie: There's a really good local jazz scene that I'm into back home. Shelly somebody or something is there and really good. There's a great gospel choir that did a benefit concert for IV users. I don't know. I guess you wouldn't know any of these people. Well, I do love Billie Holliday. 
Simon: I love all the greats: Miles Davis, Coltrane, Monk. 

the world and The Violent Femmes subculture is definitely one of them. They're a very real band and they work very well with their audience. 
What do you think the next Frente work will sound like? Will it be more electric? 
Angie: It will probably be more bluesy than electric. 
Simon: Really? I think it'll be more electric than bluesy. No, only because the blues is bred into certain musicians, it's more ancient-sounding. The blues is an old soul obsession. 
What are your plans for the next year? 
Simon: Once the tour is over, holiday. definitely holiday. We're going to take months and months off and take at look at what's next. 
What jazz musicians do you listen to, ifany? 
ment and mind, the play thrives brought him respect as both an The group of four actors who entertainment, SUB provided on Allen's writing and unique actor and a playwright, leading Last night's two-act perfor­performed last night is one of the hard-working students of sense of humor. In both the to his recent efforts including mance featured the Repertory three units travelling the coun­Notre Dame with an enjoyable original stage productions and Manhattan Murder Mystery Theater of America's Alpha­try this year visiting college midweek study break, an event the 1972 movie version, Woody (1993). Husbands and Wives Omega Players, an acting campuses performing this or that may continue. 
~~~~~~----~-~------~-----------­
r page 10 
gives me a chance to give back some of the hits I've taken as a
Irish 

forward," she said. "Besides, continued from page 16 the transition to defense has been easier since I played for­
As a freshman at Arkansas 
ward for so long."

last year, VanLaecke started 16 
Once she was switched to de­
of her team's 20 games. She 
fender, VanLaecke became top 
was the Lady Razorbacks' top 
defensive substitute and even 
scorer with 12 goals and was 
managed to start 11 games.
named first team all­
"There's no extra pressure as
Southeastern Conference. A 
a reserve, because you have to 
native of Granger. and a two 
do whatever it takes to win no
time Indiana player of the year 
matter what." 

at John Adams High School, 
"Amy provides an offensive
VanLaecke decided to come 
punch from the back and she
home after one year down 
has stepped into a new defen­
south. 

sive role without losing a step,"
"I didn't think it was a good 
said Petrucelli. 

fit academically," she reasoned. 
The two reserves are excited
"Once the coach released me, I 
about the weekend, but they 
was able to come here and play 
have no idea when they will get 
right away." 

their first touch on the ball.
She assumed her play would 
Petrucelli doesn't map out a 
come at the forward position. 
substitution pattern and neither
However, a mid-season ankle 
player knows when she'll go
injury to starting sweeper 
into the game. 

Ashley Scharff, left the Irish a 
"We just go in when he calls 
little thin defensively and Van­
our name," said Masters. 
Laecke assumed the role. It 
"I'd like to play, but I want 
was the first time that she had 
what is best for the team," 
ever played defense in her ca­
added VanLaecke. 

reer. In her first five starts, the 
Notre Dame has two of their 
defense shut out four top 20 
best players waiting in the 
opponents. 

wings and they'll be ready to fly
"I like playing in the back. It 
at the Final Four. 


Classifieds 

The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 17, 1994 
is to make other people, espe­
cially the hitter. look good." said Brown. continued from page 16 Judging by the Irish hitting performance this year. Tuttle 

Tuttle 

might think that filling 
has executed her job with no 
Karlan's shoes would be an 
problem.

added pressure to Tuttle's 
The Irish have two of the 
role, but she believes it has 
best outside hitters in the 
given her more motivation. 

country in All-American senior 
"It has been hard the last 
Christy Peters and fabulous 
two years." said Tuttle. "But it 
freshman Angie Harris who 
really motivated me this year." 

have combined for nearly 800 
Another source of pressure 
of the team's 1684 kills. 

for Tuttle coming into this sea­
Sophomore outside hitter 
son was the arrival of Fab 50 
Jenny Birkner, who is third 
freshman setter Carey May. 

behind Peters and Harris with 
"Especially with Carey com­
222 kills, attributes much of 
ing in, I felt like if I didn't do it The Observer/Jake Peters 
her performance to Tuttle. this year, it would be my last Christy Peters has the top recipi­"Shannon affects my perfor­chance." 
ent of Tuttle's passes. mance a lot, because if the sets 
Irish head coach Debbie 
aren't there, neither are the 
Brown is happy with the way ing volleyball in grade school, 
kills," said Birkner. 

Tuttle has channeled the pres­realizes the importance of the 
Overall, Tuttle's perfor­
sure. setter. 
mance is one of major reasons 
"Shannon didn't really feel "I feel like I could let the 
for the team's 29-2 record,
pressure," said Brown. "It was team down because I'm 
top-ten ranking, and number 
more determination." involved in every play," said 
one seed going into this week­
"She came into this season Tuttle. 
end's Midwestern Collegiate
wanting a chance to prove "But I like playing under 
Conference tournament. 
herself. Shannon displays pressure." 
Coach Brown readily acknowl­
good leadership," said Brown. The setter's performance is 
edges this fact. 

"She plays best when she plays especially vital to the perfor­
"Statistically, we are doing
with a lot of talk and emotion." mance of the hitters and the 
better than we ever have. and 
Tuttle. who has played the outside attack. 
Shannon's performance is di­
position since she began play-"Most successful setter's job 
rectly related." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cems per character per day, including all spaces. 
FOUND: Man's class ring in  6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  $ HELP! Need Air Force GA's $  i need TWO air force tix for satur·  TALBOTS' arrived in MICHIANAI  
restroom in DeBartolo. Call 273·  FALL 95. 272·6306  call x3882  day! III please help me, i have  NE of UP Mall on Cleveland Ad  
Notices  5935 to identify  Ask For Miss Debartolo  money & i will work out a deal,cuz  Holiday Sweater Event this FAI and  
1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL·  hey, i'm from texas! II although i am  SAT  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS  ABLE NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES  Help!  still the wuss of the 6-man of zahm,  
1 0-6 m-sat pandora's books  Wanted  272·6306  I need one Air Force student ticket  but i am coming out of my shell.  Need ride for 2 to Cleveland area  
ND ave & Howard st 1 0-6 m·sat  or GA for my sister. Call Brian at  please call Andy at x3830  for TG Break. 5 mins. off 80/90. call  
233-2342 cool stuff cool store  PERCUSSIONISTS!  UPSTAIRS APT., 3 LG. BR. ,  2n-5720  Jill x2735  
A Local Folk Duo Is looking for a  KITCHEN, BATHROOM. ALL UTIL·  
Anybody need a ride to St. Louis for  creative person willing to play all  ITIES INCLUDED. PRIVATE  For sale grad stu tix AF game, good  St. Jude's Novena  
Thanksgiving? I'm leaving  types of percussion. Call Dave  PARKING & ENTRANCE, 4·5·6  NEED STUD OR GA TIX FOR AF.  price, call 237·0072  May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be  
Wednesday (11/23) at 2pm. If inter­ 258-4345.  STUDENTS OK. $500/MO. + $500  CALL KEVIN 289-0714.  adored, glorified, loved, and pre·  
ested, call Alex at X3946.  DEPOSIT. CALL DOUG MILLIKEN  2 Air Force GA's for Sale 235·3394  served throughout the world, now  
Driving to Pittsburgh for T -giving?  288·7319 ANYTIME, 1517112  NEED 2 AF GA's. Chris x3407  and forever. Sacred Heart of  
The CLIENT  Two students seeking rides. Will  LWW, NEXT DOOR TO VITO'S  I need Air Force GA's and Stud Tix.  Jesus, pray for us. St. Jude, worker  
8/10:30 Friday/Saturday  cover food and gas.  BARBER SHOP.  HELP!  Please call Greg @ 1620  of miracles, pray for us. St.Jude,  
Cushing Auditorium  Call Mark 271-1400; Bob 4·1661  I Need 1 Air Force GAl  helper of the hopeless, pray for us.  
by SUB  Call Liz at x4541  $$$$Help. I need Air Force Tickets.  Say 9 times a day for 9 days. Must  
For Sale  Please call Gina at2n-0740.$$$  publish. Thank You St. Jude.  
HITCH THE SKIES WITH  TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK  USC tickets for sale  
AIRHITCH  '951 LOWEST PRICES I JAMAICA,  Spring Break Early· Specials!  Call Jen x2338  NEED 2 AirForce GA's KATE  HELP! I need a ride-DC to  
Carrlb/Mex $189 RIT Europe $229,  CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE.  Bahamas Party Cruise, 6 days & 12  x4898  ND Sun, Nov 27· will drive, help  
Coast to Coast $129. Call for F.REE  BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1  meals $2791 Panama City  Need 2 AF tix for my brothers. Call  w/ $ call Laura 44669  
program description 800-326·2009  ORGANIZE GROUP,TAAVEL  Oceanview Kitchens $1291 Cancun  Seth@ x2174  Need Air Force tix  
FREE! SUN SPLASH TOUAS1·  & Jamaica $3991 Daytona $1591  call Chris x3767  NEED ride to PHILA. for Thxgvn.  
AN OPEN ADOPTION  800·426-nto  Keys $2291 CocoaBeach $15911·  ••• I need 1 to 3 GA's for AF  Please call CHRIS, 273-6488  
I am a little girl whose mom and  800·678·6386  Please call Jerry 271·2956  Need 2 Air Force GAs  
dad would love to give me a baby  EARN INCOME  call Pat x2213  Remember the 'Naughl  
sister or brother for my third birth­ HAVE FUN MARKETING  EA HOCKEY for IBM  Need 4 AFGAs  On this day last year, the Men of  
day. We know you have many  ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY  1994 players with trades, etc ...  Chad X3368  Need stud or GA AF tickets  Cavanaugh received their eviction  
tough decisions to make, so come  PRODUCTS, HOLIDAY GIFT  almost brand new, has all books  Anne 271·9669  notice from student affairs ...  
and meet with us at our home, to  BASKETS. CALL ME TODAY,  and the registration form.  HELP! I need 2 stud tix for AIR  Please join us in remembering the  
see if we are the family that you  STAAT MAKING MONEY  best offer; call Tom at4·1712  FORCE. Call EILEEN 272·8606  Need 1 Air Force stud. ticket, call  Hall so many Men loved to call  
would choose to raise your child.  TOMORROW -674·9634.  x3650.  home. Mass is at10:00.  
Be assured that we want you and  For Sale: Fender Strat-$300  Need to sell 1 student Air Force  Dress in good taste please..  
your baby to be a part of our lives.  Call 233·5130  ticket. Call Ruth 288·9158  2 A. F. GAs 4 sale x2264  
Help us increase our immediate  ATTENTION AMBITIOUS, SELF·  Quality Copies, Quicklylll  
and extended family. Support and  MOTIVATED Students. The  FOR SALE: 1978 OLDS 98  NEED AF TIX -STD OR GAs. $$$  NEED 4 GA TIX FOR AF.  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
counseling available. Please call  ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is  RUNS VERY WELL.  CALL MARY 273-2926  CALL BARB AT 257·2800 (WORK)  LaFortune Student Center  
my mom and dad (Laurie and Tony)  currently Interviewing students for  CALL CHRIS @ 273·9083  UNTIL4 PM.;  Phone 631-COPY  
anytime. 1-800·840-0PEN  Summer '95 management posi·  I need 2 AF GA's.Will pay bick  271·9565 (HOME)  
lions. Earn money in excess of  PITTSBURGHEAS· I have 1 round·  bucks. Call Tony@ 4·3883  AFTER6 PM.  We're Open  
BATMAN  $10,000. Call now, 1·B00-4n-1001  trip ticket on ND club of Pgh.  Early, Late, & Weekendslll  
8/10:30 Thursday  for a campus representative.  Thanksgiving bus. Call Kurt 4-1005  I need 1 Air Force GA  I HAVE AIR FORCE STUD TIX  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
LaFortune Montgomery Theatre  Mike 4-3326  4 SALE MICHELE 284·5326  LaFortune Student Center  
by SUB  1 way plane ticket to Boston for  Phone 631-COPY  
I NEED A AIDE TO MIDWAY APT  Dec2~est offer--JP@4013  Need 2 Air Force GA's call Brian  
Christmas cash? We buy used Air  11/23 for 5:15 flight· can you help?  X3467  Katie needs 1 Air Force GA for a  Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  
Jordans 85·91 editions and late  """PLEASE CALL BRIAN x105a•••  '85 Toyota Corolla, 4dr, 5-speed,  wannabe Domer from California  Sailing Cruise! Free brochure  
70's & early 80's NIKE running  A/C, Am/FM, 89k miles, many new  Call her at 4-4045  1 (800)359-9808  
shoes, pay up to $2001 1-8()()..873·  Need an used 35:70 AF lens  parts. $2,200. Call Susan at631·  For Sale­ 
3538 ext. 3  Minolta Maxxum preferred  7505.  2 AF Stud Tix.  I NEED 2 A. F. G.A.'S  Driving to NJ for Thanksgiving? I  
Call1·8245  Call Cathlynn at 284·4351.  MIKE 271 • 0979  need a ride. Will help w/expenses.  
Elaine x2328  
Lost and Found  SAAB TO SEATTLE.  Tickets  NEED 2 A. F. GA'S · CALL Joe  FOR SALE: 3 AF STU TIX CALL  
Need driver of car anytime. Call  @X2765  289-9420  If you're having a cool party this  
found--outside of Hesburgh about  234-0849.  I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.  weekend, call x4321 and let us  
a week ago, a woman's tennis  272-6551  4 Sale: 2 USC GA x3373  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  know where it's at.  
bracelet. call634·3918.  I NEED 5 GA'S AN 2 STUD. TIX  Some party girls  
For Rent  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  I need 3 AF GA's  FOR AIR FORCE  
Lost a Caslo calculator in a metal  HOME GAMES. 272·7233.  -Bill at 272·2376  GAMEIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII  Admiral Ackbar of the Mon Calimari  
pencil box on Saturday (12 Nov). My name is written on the box and  WANTED: LAW/MBA/GRAD STUDENT TO SHARE  I NEED AF GA's  I need 2 Airforce GA's. Call Kevin  CALL MIKE AT X167911111111 $$$$$$$$$$$$$·······•••••••••••••••  Need ride to Colombus, OH for  
on the back of the calculator.  FURNISHED APT FOR SPRING  DAVE 634·1198  271-7284  thanksgiving. Will help pay exp.  
Reward. Contact Kris Rianto  SEMESTER.  X4652  
x-1868.  CALL 273-6418 FOR MORE INFO.  AF, SO. CAL GA'S FOR SALE.  2 TOGETHER STUDENT TICKETS  
288·1186.  FOR AF GAME: $30.  Icing happen when the puck come  
LOST Ill  Looking for a male I female room·  289·9518, NATHAN  Personal  down, bang, you know, before the  
Notre Dame medium size male  mate at Castle Point.  Need A. F. Tix • stu or GAs  oder guys, nobody there. My hand  
class ring with green stone, antique  $ 280/mo +all utilities, with cable  Mark 289·6988  Dennis McCarthy has 20 A.F. tick·  Seamaisin at the Midway Tavern, 2  goes comes up, then the game start  
style and initials R.E.A.P. on the  TV, until may of '95  ets, will sell for low low $$$1  blocks So. of Hacienda on 4th  then start up.  
inside. If found please send to 421  call272·1663  Need 3 Air Force Stu. Tix  Call634·1049 with an offer.  Street...... Every Thursday  
Flenner.  Bill271-9471  Morgs,  
NO QUESTIONS ASKED! II  Zepfest House '95·96. Free maid  $$$$$$$$$$$$$  Notre Dame's Traditional irish Band  Here goes the tradition. Is there  
serv., sand V-ball ct.,6-bedrm.  •••••••••• PLEASE HELP!•••••••••  yo baby yo baby yo, lookey here, i  ... Seamaisin .... 1st CD at the  really anything in our lives worth  
Lost: Black mountain bike-broken  273·0482 234·3831  I NEED 2 AIR FORCE TICKETS  need 3 ND USC tix!lll  Bookstore, 2cd one by X-Mas  commenting on? Nothing has  
-­ front reflector, letters "Silver Ridge"  CALL CHRISSY x3098 ·THANKS  i am a finance major & i am willing  changed with our friends Bud and  
on the sida. Stolen on Thurs. out·  TURTLE CREEK  to make a deal. call malt at x3830  Happy Birthday Banyan Man (Tim  Bub so they can kiss off. Well, I  
side of South Dining Hall after din·  4 person townhouse  ps, party in 3rd floor zahm six-man  Dunn)  know that you probably have to shit  
ner. Return to Stanford-no ques·  avail now!  I need 2, 3 or 5 AF GAs  friday,  We're wery happy for you on this  right about now, so I'll see ya.  
lions asked 4-2087  Mike x3574  Rob x1816  just ask for boko. later  auspicious day.  Ky. Gal  

~~-----­
Thursday, November 17, 1994 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

25 years ago this week, ten Notre Dame dents were suspended for protesting 
recruitment by the Central Agency and· Dow Chemical 
66
e fcatm(Q)illl§ N(Q)~Jre DSlme 
C8l1b01Ul~ ~Ihlce§e ceve1Til~§9 
Viice~1TilC8lm erCffi Cffi§ 

C(Q)me 
~Ihle 
Forum: 
lUJ rru ijvcer$ij 

Where: l~ ~ rru itce rrru <11itij©.rru <11 ~ 
W ho: \0rij~ ij rru <11 ~ Mce mrbcer$ ©~ itlhl New York State Defense Lawyer; Environmenta~ Engineer; Ed Roickle Professor at Corn_eU~ Dr, John Eckenrode Former NO Professor; Rev. Emmanuel Charle 
What challenges continue to face the University as it attempts to its Catholic character while at the same time is involved by the with governments, institutions, and corporations whose goals, actions a beliefs may be inconsistent with Notre Dame's Catholic values? 
C,ponsored by C,tudent Government, The Center for <£>ocial Concerns, The Kello&s Institute, WVFI AM 640 
-------~---~----­
Thursday, November 17, 1994
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS

• INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Off-Campus will rely on

Thank you, Zahm 
a number of former 

BY NEIL ZENDER not they can kick the living day­Zahm stars in Sunday's Sports Writer lights out of their best friends. 
interhall finale 

OfT-Campus may have the ad­
They used to live together. Rabid Bat, he guided Zahm to
vantage. The five former Rabid Now, they're beating each other Bats know the philosophy and two Stadium appearances, and up. Sound like a divorced cou­the 1992 Championship. Now,
strategy Zahm will be throwing ple? No, it's just Off-Campus at them on Sunday. he's on the other sideline. and Zahm battling each other "It's a lot different than any
"It helps to know what type of for the lnterhall Championship. other game. They'll run the
defense they run and the basic 
When OfT-Campus Crime and same kind of plays I'll run. I
type of offense they run," line­the Zahm Rabid Bats square ofT man Tom Ysursa said. "We don't think we have that much 
for the lnterhall Championship know their philosophy, and that of an advantage, but being on Sunday, there will be a lot of will definitely help." 
familiar with them helps." mixed feelings. Five Off­"It could be a problem," con­
Quarterback Chris Hammond Campus players are former is already in the history books cedes Zahm captain Dave Zahm residents. The game as one of Zahm's greatest quar­Bozanich. "Their defense 
may be decided on whether or knows our style of play, and
terbacks. _In his two years as a 
"RAVISHING. EXQUISITE. EVOCATIVE. ACOMPLETE AESTHETIC EXPERIENCE." 
KENNE111TURAN. U TIMES 

"A LlJXlJRIANT. BEAUflFUL FilM ABOUf ALOST VIE'INAM" 
jANFT MASUN, NY TllllS 

DEFIANTLY RAPTUROUS ... 




"**** 

BURNS WITH FIERCE NOSTALGIA" 
BOB CAMPilflJ, !IEW/101/SE ,\'£'15/'APfl/S 

"GORGEOUS. IT'S AMAZING." 

AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 and 9:45 

•
I 
they're great players. It's going to be a bigger challenge for us, which makes it more exciting." 
The Crime's center Lee Walker sums it up best. 

"It really doesn't matter who we play. We take each game as they come. We've just got to play our game. We're good years." can let our friendship get in the enough to stop them." ''I'm looking forward to play­way of playing the game you 
Hammond isn't just playing ing," Ysursa said. "I know a lot need to play. If it so happens I his friends. He's playing his of guys on their team. Beating know one of them down, I'll be family. Hammond's freshman your friends is a lot more fun. happy to help them up." brother Benji is the Rabid Bats' It adds icing on the cake." Hammond doesn't see quarterback. Hammond also has a new set crunching a friend as a prob­
"We joked about playing of motivations. lem. against each other in Stadium "You want to win for a unique "Things happen so fast, it's at the beginning of the year." set of reasons. You know it's hard for that much to go 
Chris Hammond is one of for bragging rights for the rest through your head. During the many OfT-Campus players who of the year. Whatever happens game, it's just red jerseys and is specialized. He plays quar­on Sunday is going to be a topic black jerseys. He's not a friend. terback only, and isn't part of for the rest of the year." He's just a linebacker during the defensive squad. That will But will playing friends make the game. You kind of lose who enable him to watch his brother the game tougher? Will they they are during the game." try and beat the Crime. hesitate to deliver the bone­OfT-Campus Crime will be hit­
"I'll be able to watch him, but crunching hit? ting as hard as ever on Sunday. I won't be able to root for him. Zahm's Bozanich doesn't After all, they'd never pass up This game is about bragging think so. an opportunity to make contact rights for the next fifty to sixty "As a player, I don't think I with their friends. 


e.the new group dedicated to 
bringing great activities that don't center around alcohol to our wonderful 
students, will be hosting a fun, exciting night of Country 
Western Dancing forthemembersoftheND/SMc community next Friday night at one of the area's finest facilities. (It's off campus, so it's better than Stepan, unlessyouhaveathingrorspaceships.) 
We will be meeting at the Library Circle at 6:00 this Friday, November 18. Upon our arrival, we'll first get a quick lesson; then we'll be unleashed upon the other patrons of this establishment. 
Everyone who wants to have agood time and meet a bunch ofpeople for only $5.00 is invited on this outing. Just call John at 4-1410 or Mary -at 4-4904 to let us know that you want to join in the fun. 
-----~------­
Thursday, November 17, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• INTERHA!J. FOilTBAU. 
All-Star game geared towards excitement .. 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Sports Writer 
After the dust settles in Notre Dame Stadium on Sunday and the interhall champions have been crowned, it will be time for the stars to shine. 
For the first time ever, Sunday's championship game will not be the last one of the interhall season. That follow­ing Tuesday, November 22, the men will hold an interhall all­star game. The best of the blue division will compete against the best in the gold in Loftus at 8:30pm. 
"This is a great idea," said Tony Yelovich, former Irish re­cruiting coordinator and head coach of the blue team. "Its a great opportunity for the se­niors who'll be able to suit up as a student athlete one last time." 
Joining Yelovich on the blue coaching staff include former Notre Dame player Brian Boulac, Gordy Beeler, Frank Castellino, Mike Seaman and former head coach of Weber high school in Chicago, Joe Sassano. 
"There is a lot of enthusiasm on th~ t~m." Sassano added. 
"Each of the players have excellent attitudes which cre­ates an interesting camaraderie on the teams." 
The Gold all-stars will be led into play by Fisher head coach Chuck Hurley. Hurley will be assisted by Jerry Fitzpatrick, Joe Yonto, Tom Kazmierczak, Fr. Walter Bly and Tony Nowak. 
"I think by the nature of the student body the game is going to be competitive," Hurley said. "But we're also going to try and have some fun." 
In selecting the teams, four players, two offensive and two 

-- -­-­ 
---­-­--­- --­--­-­-­.. ­--­--­ 
--­ 
...---­----­ 
-----­-­ 
--­ 

The Investment Banking Firm of 
MORGAN STANLEY 
cordially invites Notre Dame Seniors of ALL MAJORS to a presentation regarding 
Opportunities in Investment Banking 
Thursday, November 17, 1994 at the University Club 7:00p.m. 
Alumni will be present to discuss 
The Financial Analyst Program 
Please contact Career & Placement for additional information 
defensive, were picked by their peers to represent the dorm. Since the gold division contains one less team, their coaches were allowed to draft four more players from the division. 
The game will consist of 15 minute quarters with a running clock. However, during the last two minutes of the second and fourth quarters, the clock will be operated according to Federation rules. 
"After all the time and effort the players put in during the regular season, the game will be provide a reward for the players," Yonto added. 
With the game in Loftus, spe­cial rules will apply. There will be no field goals and the teams must go for two points. There will also be no blitzing, allowing only a defensive rush. 
As for how the game will 
progress, each coach has a little different feel for it. 
"I think there will be a variety of both running and passing plays," Yonto commented. 
"By throwing in some trick plays, we are going take some chances we might not during the regular season," Hurley added. 
Excluding Zahm and Off­Campus players, the all-star teams practiced for the first time on Tuesday night. While a high level of play was expected, there were still some surprises. 
"I was totally shocked at the level of play I saw on a Tuesday night," Castellino said. "There were some very good players out there on Tuesday." 
"I think the game will be fun," All-Star commissioner Marty Ogren added. "We are hoping to make it an annual event." 


~'@S~tf~t~ 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets k Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 
(219)277-1291 
Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room -LaFortune Stud~ Center-631-8128 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00pm Saturday, 8:00am-9:00pm Sunday,JO:OO am-3:00pm 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTE:D! 

'Ihe Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra 
Raymond Leppard, Conductor 
Sunday, November 20, 1994 2:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
.Peaturing the premiere of 
Symphony: Winter Lightning 
composed by Jeffrey Jacob commissioned by Saint Mary's College 
Guest Artist: Jeffrey Jacob 
Pianist-in-Residence Saint Mary's College 
The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra will also perform: 
Brahms' Academic Festival Overture, Op. 80 Brahms' Symphony No. 1 in C Minor, Op. 68 
For information about tickets, please call the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 284-4626. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents the Greek tragedy 
At Washington Hall 
Wednesday, November 16 8 p.m. Thursday, November 17 8 p.m. Friday, November 18 8 p.m. Saturday, November 19 8 p.m. Sunday, November 20 2:30 p.m . 
Reserved Seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday. 
Tickets are available at the 
door or in advance at the 
LaFortune Stu-dent Center 
Ticket Office. 
MasterCard and Visa 
orders call 631-8128. 
-' 

r-------------------------------------------~--------------------------~-----~ 
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 17, 1994 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

• 
Irish face Slovakia in exhibition 
By JASON KELLY wards Derek Manner, Pat and MacLeod likely will alter Associate Sports Editor Garrity and Brian Watkins, a the line-ups according to the group that the Irish expect to situation, particularly in the 
It's T-minus 10 days and 
make a significant contribution exhibitions. 
counting. 

this season. "We've been moving guys in 
Time for two final tune-ups to 
Tonight's game will give Irish and out and rotating all differ­
make sure that all the parts are 
coach John MacLeod an oppor­ent types of lineups," Justice 
in working order. 

tunity to gauge his team's said. "This game is kind of a 
The first will be tonight at 
progress after a month of test to see who can go out there 
7:30 p.m., when the Notre 
sweating against themselves. and execute in a game situa­
Dame men's basketball team 
No positions are set in stone, tion." 
hosts an exhibition game 

against Slovakia. The season begins for real on Nov. 27 with a matinee against 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE
Valparaiso at the Joyce Center. But 10 days feel like an eter­
TOWNHOMES
nity to the Irish players who have been toiling only against each other since practice began 
"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
on Oct. 15. Tonight's game and next Tuesday's exhibition against Verich Reps offer an opportunity to finally face some 
• FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES
fresh faces. 

• 1WO BATHROOMS
"It has been a long presea­son," senior captain Lamarr 
• SECURITY SYSTEMS Justice said. "We're getting a 
• KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
little sick of pounding on each 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR AND RANGE
other in practice." It will be the first public per­
• WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT formance for freshmen for­
• GAS HEAT Saint Mary's Track Practice will be held on Monday, 
• CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING
SPECIAL OFFER! 

November 28, 3:30 pm at Angela Athletic Facility. Physical 
• PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 
STUDENTS ONLY!forms must be completed to participate. 
• 24-HOUR MAINTENANCE
Autographed by Joe Theismann, on Monday, November 21 at 7:30p.m. in the JACC. There will lnterhall team three point contest-The contest will be held 
award-winning book NotTe Dame 

• ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
Football Today, reg. $49"', now just

be men's and women's divisions with seven member~ per $3500• Says Coach Lou Holu: "It's 
team. All team members must be from the same hall. Winning 
the finest and most dramatic coffee­

teams are to choose one team member to face MCC pre-season 
table book ever produced on NO 

NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEARplayer of the year Beth Morgan at halftime of the men's IU vs. 
football." A must for every student 

ND basketball game. Rosters must be given to RecSports by 
and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
232-8256

Thursday, November 17. A captain's meeting will be held on 
Call Kyle Dory:

the 17th at 7:00p.m. For more info. ca.ll1-6100. 
(219)634~1740 

DART  ARST  297S  0\  3487  ENGL  440  01  3622  LAW  695  02  1208  soc  346  01  2736  
CLOSED SECTIONS AS OF  BA  487  01  4011  ENGL  451A  01  3623  LAW  695  03  0776  SOC  370  OJ  1063  
7:00 P.M. ll/16/94  BA  490  02  0169  ENGL  480  01  3628  LAW  695  04  0363  soc  374  01  2093  
BA  490  03  0388  ENGL  491  01  3630  LAW  695  OS  1773  soc  438  OJ  3954  
ACer  473  01  1521  BA  490  04  1888  ENGL  491A  01  3631  LAW  695  06  0025  THEO  252  01  1321  
ACer  475  01  2639  BA  490  05  0519  ENGL  492C  01  3632  LAW  695B  01  2612  THEO  262  01  4186  
ACer  479  01  2531  BIOS  304L  01  1406  ENGL  493  01  3634  LAW  695C  01  2J9J  THEO  265  01  0773  
ACer  480  02  2572  BIOS  304L  02  2040  ENGL  496E  01  3635  MARK  382  01  402J  THEO  290  01  2013  
ACer  485  01  1030  CE  470  01  2032  FIN  474  01  0668  MATH  103  01  1820  THEO  375B  01  4329  
AFAM  329  01  2840  CHEG  448  01  1881  FS  !BOA  01  3646  ME  348  01  1053  THEO  429  01  4194  
AFAM  423  01  3430  CHEM  120L  01  2697  FS  !BOA  03  3648  ME  445  01  1382  THEO  437  01  4196  
AFAM  438  01  3431  CHEM  120L  03  2702  FS  !BOA  04  3649  MUS  220  01  1575  THEO  460  01  4197  
AFAM  454  01  2729  coer  306  01  3539  FS  180A  06  3651  MUS  220  02  3852  THTR  135  58  9758  
AMST  321E  01  3436  coer  307  01  3540  GEOS  142L  03  2219  MUS  222  01  0800  THTR  276  64  9764  
AMST  347H  01  2726  coer  426  01  3542  GOVT  447  01  3704  MUS  225  01  1022  THTR  378  72  9772  
AMST  407E  01  3441  coer  460  01  3543  GOVT  492C  01  1235  MUS  229  01  3853  
AMST  458E  01  2966  COMM  103  07  9707  GOVT  492K  01  3713  PHIL  243  01  3868  
AMST  495E  01  3004  COMM  210  16  9716  HIST  lilT  03  0901  PHIL  245  OJ  2734  CLASSES THAT WILL  
ARCH  444  03  2616  COTH  451  01  3553  HIST  ll2T  03  0690  PHIL  246  01  1335  REOPEN AT 7:00 P.M.  
ARCH  566  01  3155  COTH  453  0 I  3554  HIST  240  01  4361  PHIL  247  01  3869  llJl1.I'M  
ARCH  582  01  3157  ECON  312  01  3587  HIST  350  01  3764  PHIL  256  01  3870  
ARCH  584  01  3158  ECON  487  01  1438  HIST  413A  01  3768  PHIL  261  02  0629  ENGL  301  02  1210  
ARCH  585  01  3159  ENGL  101  01  3595  HIST  422A  01  4240  PHIL  265  0 I  3873  HIST  460A  01  2637  
ARST  134S  01  0019  ENGL  301  01  0854  HIST  454A  01  2727  PSY  405  01  1631  MARK  382  01  4021  
ARST  232S  01  0280  ENGL  301  02  1210  HIST  460A  01  2637  PSY  442  01  3906  MUS  220  02  3852  
ARST  242S  01  1952  ENGL  319B  01  2970  HIST  468A  01  3783  PSY  463  01  4297  PHIL  243  0 I  3868  
ARST  246S  01  0974  ENGL  325  01  2068  HIST  485A  01  3791  PSY  487A  01  3910  PHIL  246  01  1335  
i 1z.i I¥J :) =t-\fl4 ;13;14 4tl • PlA PERSON DEPEIIDIIIG 011 DESTI.OATION I BRfM OATIS I UNG!lt Of STAY  ARST ARST  289S 292S  01 01  3486 0526  ENGL ENGL ENGL  340A 393C 416C  01 01 01  3604 3609 3618  LAW LAW LAW  592A 615C 695  01 01 01  1021 1328 0807  PSY RLST RU  488A 351 496  01 56 01  3912 9556 3657  PHIL PHIL  247 265  01 01  3869 3873  


TOLL Jlllili' INFOIIWATION 8.111l<SEi1VATIONS 
THIS FRIDAY!
Satisij ahungry team. 
NOTRE DAME HOCKEY 
vs. BOWLING GREEN 
FRIDAY NIGHT • 7 P.M• .Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
Before or after watching the Irish play Air Force Saturday, let SUBWAY make-you aSix-Foot Combo Special-AHEARTY SANDWICH THAT WILL SATISFY 
FREE ADMISSION! 
ANY HUNGRY TEAM-for as low as $37.95. 
with student ID 


Thursday, November 17, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
NE\IER Th¥..£ M£ ~~'lW\.It.l<£ 
FVN o~ 'i/>..0.1\0~S ! IF 11-\EtO TJ\1(8'\ ME \0 />.. 0£'S\:R\ SC>t-\8"\ML 1"0 KNOW T\{\'5
srutr.' 
~~fL 

SCOTT ADAMS 
.NEXT 01\1 TI-\E_ AGENDA: TI-\E 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Forsake 53 Symbol of sovereignty
1 Butcher's hook 31 "Cosby Show" ­55 Quantico initials 
5 Exam for H.S. co-star jrs. 34 Winter bug 57 Fix 9 Make nuts 35 Hate with a 61 Man of morals '14-breve (2/2 passion 63 Longtime Pirate time) 37 Host Jay pitcher 15 Aunt Millie's 38 Rock groups 65 Lost one's balance?
competitor 40 Reduce the 16 Had something fare? 
66 Peter Gunn's lady

wrong 41 Runs into 67 Capital of 
17 "When Worlds 42 "-.-. partridge 
Yemen

Collide" producer 68 Shadings
43 Levy 19 Knight spot? 69 Split
45 Peppermint 20 Eddying Twister Joey 70 "Enterprise" journey
21 Take the bus 46 Yellowstone attraction
23 Sweet spud 24 Argo ending DOWN
48 A month of­
50 Unearthly26 Where to get 1 Infatuated plastered? 52 Harbor boats 

2 Pub round 3 Go with it 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 A Little Rascal 5 Musical intra 6 Enervate 7 Seaweed 
substance 

28 Out in the cold 56 Spy writing 
aHaarlem bloomer 29 "Barnaby 58 Bender Jones" star 47 Hits the ceiling 59 Feminine suffix 
9 Tourist's tote ~~~ 10inlet 
30 Tide types 49 Shortstop's stat 60 Neighbor of Sask. 
,;,_j..:~+-=--1 11 "Brat pack" 32 Starts the pot 51 Barbecue 62 "A Chorus Line" actress leftover finale
33 Pill allotment 12 Epsilon follower 53 Malt drier 64 Hopper
340ld Glory
13 Holland export 36 Substantial

~::..J.,::,+;4=-~ 18 Some pianos 
Get answers to any three clues
39 Let up ~;:::+;~~ 22 Move like a 

by touch-tone phone: 1~900-420­
dragonfly 41 Civil-rights 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
~~~ 25 Indian icon leader Evers 


f\s (\ !'flt::m6H OF Ttil:. 
of L•6f.~L 2m.l'l>'•" 'I \}.louL't> l \1'-E. To 
'E:JI.rV.ESS ft\'1· 
1\t-~qU.. {flf-1!. 
'te.srEf'.'I>A'\:. 
CA~T••I"­
_/ 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 


rJiie 06server 
Published Monday through Friday, %e. 06seroer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found rrfie 06seroer an indispensible link to the two cam­puses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive rrfie 06seroer in your 
home. 
.,. j,J A"> 1\N UNpfl.oi/OKf.b 
Aw<> \h..jVl>nf•£" {\,-~>.<.\<. AG.P.IN'ST THE 1\fojt£1'1\E.N TIONE. t> ~jl_ouf. 
) 

I'VE NE'JER ~UN -m f.-. 
Ot:S£R\.1 \-\0\'11 11-.~0 \)(!..{) 
Make checks payable: The Observer 
and mail: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
-
D Enclosed is $60 for one academic year. 
D Enclosed is $35 for one semester. 
·-
Nallle __________________________________ 
Address______________________________ 
City___________State_____.Zip_____ 
SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, November 17, 1994 
• WoMEN's SoccER 
II. SOCCER 
l4'Dillll~t*I'HbmtnJt~-''1' 

Off 
Amy Van Laecke and Stacia Masters have quietly made their mark. 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
Sports Writer 

Stacia Masters is in her second season as a key bench player for Notre Dame. 
The ultimate personal goal for many athletes is to wins. on their way to an undefeated become a starter on their "It doesn't bother me at all," regular season. respective teams. said Masters. "I'm just happy "Stacia provides a spark off 
A prominent reserve role to contribute to the success of the bench," said Irish head can be just as rewarding if the team." coach Chris Petrucelli. your a member of the number "I don't mind not starting, "Especially with her ability to 1 ranked Notre Dame because I know I have the score." women's soccer team that will chance to help the team com­After two years, Masters participate in the program's ing off the bench," added thinks a reserve role has its first ever Final Four appear­VanLaecke. pros and cons. ance on Friday in Portland, Masters, a forward from "It's bad because the other OR. Tampa, has been the first players have been going and 
Sophomores Stacia Masters player off the bench for the are warmed up," she and Amy VanLaecke provide second year in a row. In only explained. "On the other the team with an offensive three starts this season, she hand, since I come in with boost as well as a defensive has contributed nine goals fresh legs, its easier to beat 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
stopper off the bench. Their . and six assists. She scored defenders and score goals."
The defensive play of Amy Van Laecke (front) has countered the 
reserve roles suit them just goals in the first seven games
play of Cindy Daws (back) on offense. 
fjne as long as their team of the season to help the Irish 
see IRISH I page 10 
• VOLLEYBALl 

To THEIR 
Setting the Table 
ADVANTAGE 
she has done. 
Shannon Tuttle is one
With Shannon Tuttle setting a Tuttle, a 5-11 junior from few Notre Dame reason Notre Dame 
Roseda, California, saw little 
players are enjoying 

boasts a 29-2 record time in her first two seasons at Notre Dame, but has come on By BETSY BAKER 
strong this season and led the Sports Writer 
29-2 Irish in all 31 of the of their matches. She has 1139Good things come to assists so far this season, earn­those who wait. In the ing an average of 12.38 assists case of Shannon Tuttle, per game. Tuttle is within 50 Kills: 222 the setter for the Notre assists of placing herself among Dame volleyball team,
Avg: 2.42 the top five Irish single-season
good things come to and 
288 assist recordholders. She is al­
Hitting Pet: · from those who wait. 
Kills: 366 

ready third among Irish career
Tuttle, the unsung
Avg: 3.89 

assist leaders. 
hero of the ninth ranked Irish,
Christy Peters Hitting Pet: .272 Tuttle's success this season
-waited two years behind all has been a combination of lead­Kills: 400 time Irish assist leader, Janelle ership and determination. One 
Avg: 4.71 As a team the Irish hitting Karlan, for a chance to prove percentage is 15.74, herself, and that is exactly what 
Hitting Pet: .301 

compared to 15.52 in 1993 see TUTTLE I page 10 


of note... 
.... ALL-STARS, ZAHM STARS 
The lowdown on the upcoming IH All-Star 
The Notre Dame men's basketball 
game and a look at former Zahm stars playing 
exhibition 'game begins at 7 p.m. 
-against their old dorm. 
in the Joyce Center. 

See Pages 12-13 




