



Thursday, September 15, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No.l4 
TI IE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVJNC. NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Poor, land injustices addressed 
By LAURA FERGUSON Saint Mary's News Editor 
This summer, the congrega­tion of the Sisters of the Holy Cross voted to take a corporate stand on global land rights and reform. 
This statement places the congregation on the side of the world's poor and against the injustices done to them by more powerful forces. 
The Congregation's stand aims to initiate efforts whenev­er possible to: 
• 
Secure the rights of the poor and disenfranchised 

• 
Ensure affordable housing, especially for the poor 

• 
Provide fair economic exchange between work and the fruits of the land 

• 
Make persons aware of unjust use of the land to the detriment of the poor 

• 
Challege the structures that hold the poor captive to the greed of institutions, con­glomerates, and individuals of wealth 

• 
Preserve and restore the land. 


Letters from the Congregation were sent to President Bill Clinton, the departments of agriculture, defense, interior and state, the Senate, House of Representitives, the U.S. Catholic Conference of Bishops and Local Ordinaries of each American diocese. 
"In the 150 years of serving God's people throughout the world, the Sisters of the Holy Cross have focused on the needs of the indigenous and the marginalized poor, primar­ily through our efforts in edu­cation and health services," states the letter sent to Clinton. "In other programs and ser­vices, also, the goal has always been to assist the ongoing development of the people, their culture and society." 
According to Congregation Archivist and member of the Justice Committee, Sr. Jeanne Finske, C.S.C., the Congregation has yet to receive a response from this mailing. 
In addition to bringing this issue to the attention of nation­al leaders, Sisters of the Holy Cross working in areas such as Bangladesh, Peru, and Brazil, are helping on the village level. 
"The sisters are working 
directly with the people 
involved to help educate the 
villagers and create their own 
leaders to deal with the prob­
lem themselves," Finske said. 
"So much farming land is no 
longer in the hands of farmers 
but of business," she contin­
ued. "Their main concern is 
for business and not for the 
land and this results in forced 
migration of indigenous and 
tribal people." 
The document was drafted by the Congregation's Justice Committee over the past two years and was formally accept­ed at the most recent chapter meeting of the Congregation. 

Kabat to show award winning film, lecture 


By AMY SCHMIDT News Writer 
Stacey Kabat, 1993 Academy Award Winner for Best Documentary short subject, will be featured in an upcom­ing lecture Thursday night at 
7:30 p.m. in • Washington ,. 
Hall. '·· 
Kabat's'' f i l m , "Defending ; Our Lives", focuses on women who have been Stacey Kabat 
convicted for killing their batterers, and the problems they have faced. Since its release, three of the eight women featured have received suspended sentences, and two others were consid­ered for commuted sentences. 
As the daughter and grand­daughter of battered women, Kabat has special interest in 

The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 
human rights work, ranging

Who done it? 
from women's issues to Amnesty International. Her

The Clubhouse at Saint Mary's became the scene of a murder last 
work also received national

night during "Murder on the Rocks" . Two Saint Mary's students 
recognition when she won the

were enlisted to help members of a traveling murder mystery group 
1992 Reebok Human Rights
perform the crime . 



Forces nearly ready for Haitian rulers 
By LISA M. HAMM 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 
A U.S. warship steamed with­in sight of the capital today and planes dropped propaganda leaflets before dawn, the latest moves in a campaign of psycho­logical warfare aimed at Haiti's military rulers. 
The American planes flew low over the Port-au-Prince area at about 2:45 a.m. drop­ping the Creole-language fliers, which show a picture of elected President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and announce that he is returning. 
In one area, a plane flew so low it shook houses and threw 

Clinton hails new ban on kids' guns 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
A day after signing the mam­moth crime bill, President Clinton gave top priority Wednesday to enforcing a pro­vision that drew little attention during the months of debate: the ban on juvenile possession of handguns. 
"This law can save children's lives," Clinton told the nation's 
U.S. attorneys gathered in the White House State Dining Room. 
He ordered the prosecutors in the next 100 days to develop a strategy to implement the pro­vision. The law, which also bans the transfer or sale of handguns to children, is not retroactive. 
"Except when hunting or tar­get shooting with a parent or other responsible adult, young people simply shouldn't be car-people into a panic. Leaflets also were dropped on La Plaine, north of the capital. 
Pro-army militiamen roughed up people trying to pick up the leaflets in the Delmas section of the capital, local radio report­ed. 
Offshore from Port-au-Prince, a gray U.S.-flagged cutter was visible, heading rapidly north­ward in the Caribbean. At the same time, the planes, includ­ing two U.S. Army Blackhawk helicopters, flew over the Haitian capital. 
"The sound of invasion is already in our ears," said ultra­nationalist politician Vladimir Jeanty, who heard the planes fly over his roof in Delmas. 
rying guns, period," Clinton said. "This provision is critical to our ability to make our schools and neighborhoods safer." 
The number of minors arrest­ed for murder more than dou­bled between 1983 and 1992, from 1,175 to 2,680, according to FBI statistics. 
Clinton stressed that planning is crucial to translate the law from words on paper to action. 
If the law instead "is widely ignored and never enforced, it will be a terrible shame because this law can save chil­dren's lives.... If we can enforce this, it will make a massive difference in the prob­lem of youth violence." 
While Clinton touted many aspects of the crime bill, includ­ing its money to subsidize putting more police on the streets and a provision that will send some three-time felons to prison for life, he said the "most important thing" he wanted to emphasize was the gun provision. 

Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kan., who introduced the measure in the House, said he was not sur­prised the measure obtained such prominence. 
"I think that while there are many things in the crime bill that probably won't have any long-term impact, this one will because it will have some suc­cess at removing certain firearms from kids," he said in an interview. 
Although the National Rifle Association put up a furious fight against the bill because of its most celebrated gun-related provision -the ban on assault­style firearms -it did not fight this one, he said. 
"Ironically it's one of the few pieces of legislation that had the support of both the gun groups like the NRA and groups like Handgun Control," 
He said the Haitian people should "sharpen their ears," and predicted that 300,000 will die if the United States invades. Jeanty said U.S. soldiers will not distinguish between sol­diers and civilians when they attack. 
The United States has intensi­fied its psychological warfare in recent weeks. Washington has warned the military to get out and moved several warships ominously close to Haiti's shores. 
The White House said Tuesday that military action could come "very soon." 
"The intervention has already taken place. They just haven't begun to shoot at people yet," Evans Paul, the capital's efect­ed mayor in hiding, told The Associated Press on Tuesday. 
National sovereignty, which the ruling army claims to be defending in its standoff with the United States, has been reduced to nothing since the coup three years ago because the international community has largely controlled Haiti, Paul said. 
"Our city is besieged, and the besieger has allowed our lead­ers no way out," said Carl Denis, a senior aide to the mili­tary-installed government. "We have no option but resistance." 
The country is completely iso­lated. 
Glickman said. "This was an area in which the NRA was actually quite helpful." 
Sen. Herbert Kohl, D-Wis., who introduced the measure in the Senate, said that "since less than half of our states currently have laws on the books to keep handguns away from juveniles, I'm pleased that the president has made this federal provision a priority." 
"When any American is killed, it's a tragedy -when kids are killing kids, it's a national disgrace," Kohl said. 
Clinton reflected briefly on the struggle to get the bill passed. It nearly died in both the House and the Senate last month until some moderate Republicans helped revive it. 
"It was one of the more inter­esting and rigorous legislative exercises we've had around here in a long time," Clinton said. 
Award. 
The showing of the 40­minute film is being co-spon­sored by the Student Union Board and Student Activities. Members of SUB decided over the summer to bring Kabat's work to campus. 
"We decided that it is a pro­gram that the University would benefit from seeing, especially because it is a video, and not just a lecture," said Kevin Klau, programming director for the SUB. 
Although the subject has only recently attracted national interest, the Surgeon General has said that domestic violence is the chief cause of women's injuries. Kabat's work centers on heightening awareness, and her women's rights agency, Battered Women Fighting Back!, works to stop the vio­lence. 
"I think that it (domestic vio­lence) is a subject that has got­ten a lot of attention with the recent O.J. Simpson trial," said Klau. "Hopefully, many stu­dents who wouldn't have opened up otherwise will speak out. The film is a great way to learn about how widespread the problem is." 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, September 15, 1994 
• INsmE Cou.nvnJ 
A woman's 
place is in 


the Church 
I am Catholic because I believe in Jesus' divinity and humanity; I believe in the Eucharist and forgive­ness of sins; I believe in the gifts of the Holy Spirit. Yet, when I encounter the male-dominated hierarchy of our Church, I can only feel excluded. 

The Roman Catholic By Kelly O'Neil 
Church proclaims itself to Assistant Office Manager be all-inclusive and uni­versal, but hypocritically excludes women from the priesthood. Moira Walsh's letter in the Observer (Sept. 9) attempts to support the Pope's latest reaffirmation of reserving the priestly ordination to men, but fails to logically explain the church's reasoning. Walsh's ratio­nale is as unsound as the result of the Vatican's illogical explanations for excluding women from the priesthood. 
After admitting that women can be figures of holiness and authority, Walsh states: "The priest must represent Christ-who is insepara­bly God and man-in His divinity and in His humanity." If the priest is representing Christ's divinity and humanity, then shouldn't we stress that Christ is inseparably God and human, rather than God and man? Therefore, women, who are humans, are capable of being models of holiness, figures of authority and representatives of Christ's humanity. The argument Walsh uses to explain why women shouldn't be priests is often the argument used in favor of their ordination! 
A discussion with some experienced theolo­gians helped me to better understand why the church's explanation for not allowing female priests is illogical. The Vatican attempts to reason that Jesus did not freely choose women apostles, so women cannot be candidates for the priesthood. The problem with this argu­ment is that it does not consider the social atmosphere of His time, and we cannot be sure of Jesus' exact intentions. The Pope claims the sex of the priest is essential, but there is no substantial foundation for this belief. The sactament of ordination, along with the other sacraments, were formulated through a read­ing back of scripture. Just because Jesus didn't have women apostles then, does not mean that He wouldn't ordain women today. 
A secondary reason used to explain why women are incapable of being priests is based on Jesus' manhood. This is the argument Walsh attempted to justify in her letter. As I mentioned earlier, Jesus' humanity, not mas­culinity, gives meaning to the consecration of bread and wine. If we were to base the qualifi­cations for ordination on Jesus' genes, then even many men wouldn't qualify to be priests. For example, if Jesus had brown hair, could only brown haired people become priests? It seems ludicrous when explained this way, but it demonstrates how Jesus' physical character­istics should be irrelevant in determining can­didates for priesthood. 
Even if the Church ignores all of these rea­sons for allowing women priests, the Vatican cannot deny the growing vocation shortage. With fewer men willing to dedicate their lives to the priesthood, the church may not be in a position to deny so many talented and willing women the chance to become priests. After all, we are all baptized into one body and through this Baptism "There is no longer Jew or Greek. there is no longer slave or free, there is no longer male and female" (Galatians 3:28). 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Production 
Laura Ferguson Heather Gibson 
Nancy Dunn Tara Grieshop 
Sports Accent 
Tom Schlidt Bevin Kovalik 
Lab Tech Tom Roland 
Mike Hungeling Viewpoint Graphics Carolyn Wilkins Michael O'Hara
Jill Harris 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Single parents 
Nationwide, one out of every four children now live with only one parent; in more than one-third of those families, lhe parent has llflVBr been married. In meny cities, single parenthood is more the rule than the exception. 
Ranklngs of cities by percentage of single-parent families, according to the Census Bureau. Note: City size is determined by the number of households. Cities with fewer than 4,000 households were eliminated. 
Most single parents 

Disney working on deal to buy NBC 
NEW YORK 
Walt Disney is talking with General Electric about the possibility of buying its NBC television division, a source familiar with the discussions said Wednesday. The dis­closure increases speculation about potential buyouts, mergers or other alliances involving NBC. which has slipped to third place from first in the prime-time ratings since GE acquired it in 1986. The report about Disney appeared in Wednesday's editions of The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal. They each said Disney is considering an offer of as much as $5 billion for the NBC network, its seven TV stations and cable chan­nels including CNBC. Price was said to still be a major obstacle. A source familiar with the Disney-GE talks but speaking on condition of anonymity said the discussions have been going on for quite some time and are continu­ing. The source was unable to estimate when the talks might end. The speculation about a network takeover hasn't been limited to NBC. CBS has been a recurrent subject of takeov:er speculation. Its proposed merger with home shopping channel operator QVC Inc. fell apart in July. CBS chairman Laurence Tisch was willing to cede day-to-day control to QVC chairman Barry Diller under their deal. Some media analysts think CBS will eventually be sold. 
Man shoots self, then returns to job 
BERLIN, N.H. 
A paper mill worker accidentally shot himself while drunk and went to work the next morning with a bullet lodged near his eye. Robert Cloutier, 39, was hospital­ized Wednesday in fair condition. He was admitted Monday after co-workers at the James River Corp. plant asked about his swollen face. Police Capt. Barney Valliere said Cloutier had been drinking Sunday night and was alone in his room when his weapon accidentally discharged into his jaw. He tended to the wound himself and went to work Monday morning as usual. "It's pretty remarkable to me someone could shoot themselves in the ·aw and facial area, clean themselves up and go to work," Valliere said. "Go figure." 
Thursday, Sept. 15 
Accu-Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 15. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
OHIO 


COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW fCE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIa Associated Press 
Atlanta 89 68 Dallas 91 72 New Orleans 88 67 Baltimore 86 65 Denver 86 55 New York 87 72 Boston 83 63 Los Angeles 77 62 Philadelphia 88 65 Chicago 88 73 Miami 82 74 Phoenix 93 67 Columbus 87 62 Minneapolis 79 67 
Fewest single parents

Jl$un City We.t, Ariz. 2..5% 
~fun City Center, Fla. 2.8% 

3.4% IJ-n Valley, Ariz. 3.8% llll'9• Point, Fla. 4.2% 
amp Lejeune, N.C. 4.5% 
lljnford. Calli. 5% 
.Knox,Ky. 5.1% lljCity, Ariz. 5.5% 
5.9% 

Chlldr~~n of single par~~nta, by marital history of par~~nt 
......... ..... .... ,.A .... .... 
1960 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1993 
Source: U.S. Census Bureau AP/C. Sanderson 
Technological failures paralyze city 
CHICAGO 

A vower outage practically paralyzes the world's largest airport. Computer problems shut down the world's busiest commodities exchange. And some tele­phone customers have trouble calling their friends. Technology ran afoul in three entirely unconnected inci­dents Wednesday at O'Hare International Airport, the Chicago Board of Trade and MCI Communications Corp. Bad day in cyberspace? Or maybe a taste of disasters to come in a technology cocky society? "Technology appears to be productive, efficient and competitive," Allan Schnaiberg, a Northwestern University sociology professor. "But we don't pay attention to the flip side of that: The bigger the system, the more likely the acci­dent." Chicago's run-in with technology began at 8:45 
a.m.. when all of the radar systems shut down at a regional air traffic control center in suburban Aurora, bringing O'Hare to a virtual standstill. A power outage at the control center was blamed. Then at 9:37 a.m. com­pu,ters at the Board of Trade shut down~ a1;1d so did all activity on the floor. The reason for the computer failure was not immediately known. Pilots were asked to look for other planes out their windows. "It's like driving down the freeway at highway speed and your steering wheel comes off in your hands," Scholl said. 
Cold walk to school lands dad in jail 
LIMA, Ohio 

A man was sentenced to six months in jail for making his 7-year-old son walk to school in temperatures around zero. The first-grader, who lived five miles from school, was found shivering and crying about a mile from home Feb. 1. Thomas Huber, 36, was convicted in July of child endangerment. The boy's mother, Lisa, is awaiting trial. In addition to the jail sentence Tuesday, Municipal Judge Rikard Workman fined Huber $500. Huber testified that he never intended to make his son, Brian. walk the entire way to school. He said Brian had repeatedly missed the bus, so Huber decided to make him start walking, then check on him after a few minutes. Huber said he couldn't find the boy when he went to check on him and thought he had arrived at school. Brian and his two siblings were taken into county custody. 




Thursday, September 15, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Barry: Leave hangups behind Italy launches tough 
By MIKE FEINSILBER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The triumph by Marion Barry, ex-mayor and ex-con­vict, in Washington's Democratic mayoral primary laid bare the racial divide in the nation's capital. He called on whites to put aside their "hang-ups" about him. 
Analysts said that Barry's was largely an in-your-face vote by both the city's black dispossessed and its solidly law-abiding, churchgoing and conservative black middle class. One political observer suggested that Barry, as a free­spending mayor for 12 years, practically created the black middle class here. 
In the city's predominantly white neighborhood west of Rock Creek Park, home to peo­ple drawn to Washington as the federal seat of government, Barry took only 3.4 percent of the vote. 
"People voted against the white power establishment's attempting to dictate their lives," said Ronald Walters, who teaches political science at Howard University. 
Jack Evans, a city councilman who represents Georgetown and downtown, said Barry won because he spoke for "a lot of people who feel disconnected from the system, left behind, left out." 
And political scientist Alvin Thornton of Howard said entre­preneurial blacks never forgot that Barry's three terms as mayor broadened the black middle-class in Washington. Barry encouraged minority 
Office Cleaners Wanted: Full or part time, evening or day hours available. Experience helpful but not required. Hourly wage and benefits. Call Mary Ann at 289.-0385. EOE M/F 
contracting and made the city government the employer of last resort -providing jobs to nearly a tenth of the city. 
Ignoring his own rocky record in office, Barry made himself the issue -that and his renunciation of alcohol and drugs after serving six months in 1991 for cocaine possession. 
He said that both he and the city deserved another chance. He registered the poor and homeless and got them to the polls in a record turnout. 
Barry took 81 percent in the poorest ward, which elected him to the city council two years ago in a first step toward post-jail salvation. 
Citywide, Barry took 47 per­cent, defeating Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly, who won four years ago as an anti-Barry reformer, and councilman John Ray, who had the support of the city's establishment, including The Washington Post. Ray, taking most of the white vote, got 37 percent, Kelly only 13 percent. Both, like Barry, are black. 
Patrick Stroh, a political sci­entist at Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh who studies voter behavior, drew a parallel with other city elec­tions in which blacks rally around a member of their race and whites around a white. 

,\ l\' l\' 0 U N C I N G T \\' 0 N E \\' C R E F A C C 0 U l\' T S 

YOU'RE LOOKING AT TWO COMPLETELY OPPOSITE, FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT WAYS TO INVEST IN STOCKS. 

WE RECOMMEND BOTH. 
Introducing the CREF Growth Account and the CREF Equity Index Account. 

W
hether you want a fund that selects specific stocks or one that covers the market, we're on the same page. Our new CREF Growth and CREF Equity Index Accounts use two distinct strategies for investing in the stock mar­ket, but both aim to provide what every smart investor looks for: long-term growth that outpaces inflation:" 
The CREF Growth Account searches for individual companies that are poised for superior growth. In contrast, the Equity Index Account looks for more diversification, with a portfolio encom­passing almost the entire range of U.S. stock investments. It will invest in stocks 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM 

in the Russell 3000®,** a broad index of 
U.S. stocks. 
Like our CREF Stock Account, which combines active, indexed, and foreign investing, and our Global Equities Account, which actively seeks opportuni­ties worldwide, the new funds are managed by experienced investment professionals. They're the same experts who have helped make TIAA-CREF the largest pension system in the U.S., managing over $130 billion in assets. 
To find out more about our new stock funds, and building your portfolio with TIAA-CREF. just call I 800-842-2776. And take yourpick. 
•The new funds are available for Retirement Annuities subject to the terms ofyour institution's plan. They are availablt for all Supplemental Retirement Annuities. ••The Russell3000 is a registered trademark of the Frar.k Russell Company. Russell is not a sponsor of the CRI~F f<AJuity lndell: Account and is not affiliated with it in any way. 
For more complete infonnation, including charges and expenses, call I 800·842-2733, ext. 550'1 for a CRJ-:r· prospectus. Rear:lthe prmpec:tus carefully before you invest or send money. CRfo:F certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. 
anti-vice caiDpaign 
By BRIAN MURPHY 
Associated Press 
ROME 

The right-hand traffic lane buzzed with the sounds of the night: the hum of idling cars, the murmur of bargaining, the click of high heels. 
But new noises are invading the roadside prostitution trade in Rome and across Italy. Police sirens cry. Paddy wagon doors slam shut. 
One of the most aggressive anti-vice campaigns in recent years is under way against street walkers, who have moved off side streets to main boulevards in some cities. Authorities also have begun seizing cars of clients and giv­ing their names to reporters. 
The crackdown, however, goes deeper than simple law and order. It touches on such sensitive issues as illegal immi­gration, public health and the limits of Italy's expansive toler­ance on matters involving sex. 
Debate has grown serious over whether to drop the decades-old ban on brothels, known in Italy as "closed hous­es," and establish a legal red­light district similar to Amsterdam, Netherlands. 
Supporters, including many parliament members, say it would be a way to check prosti­tutes for AIDS and break the influence of pimps and orga­nized crime. A few finance offi­cials have wistfully calculated the potential tax revenue from bordellos. 
"Reopen the 'closed houses,"' urged Alessandra Mussolini, a lawmaker and granddaughter of World War II dictator Benito Mussolini, who ordered wide­spread raids on brothels. 
Mussolini's party, the far­right National Alliance, and their ally in government, the Northern League, may offer a proposal to bring back broth­els. 
Even in conservative Sicily, 
city councilors in Siracusa are 
considering a local referendum 
to decide if brothels should be 
permitted. 
Pia Covre, head of the 
Committee for the Civil Rights 
of Prostitutes, favors legaliza­
tion and proposes a prostitute 
"cooperative" to share profits. 
"Work in a brothel? I would 
love it. It's certainly better than 
waiting on the street," said 
Elena, a prostitute standing on 
a main street along the Tiber 
River who did not want to use 
her last name. 
The prospect of legal red light 
zones drew opposition 
Wednesday from a group of 
government officials led by 
Health Minister Raffaele Costa. 
As an alternative, they dis­
cussed the possibility of more 
government programs to 
encourage condom use or 
demanding AIDS tests for pros­
titution suspects. 
Still, some influential political 
leaders believe legal brothels is 
the only route to clearing the 
streets of prostitutes. 
SOUTH BEND RECORD&CD COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18TH 10:00 AM-5:00 PM ADMISSION $3.00 
AT: THE HOUDAY INN 
(UNIVERSITY) 
SlSDIXIEWAYN. 
US 31 -33 NOR1H 

FREE Admission with this ad!! 
BUY. SELL.TRADE 
.,..,,,..,u COLLECfmLES FROM THE 


LP's · CD's ·45's -12 inch sing/a· ilnporU posters · magazU.es • boob -conar1 photos -video.r 1 shiru • cassenes ·pins . pa1cha tutd nwdJ more!/! 
FOR DEALER 
Join the Wings Etc. Team Now Hiring 
• 
Bartender (Beer & Soda only) 

• 
Servers (Must be 21) 

• 
Cooks 

• 
Dishwasher (We have a machine!) 

• 
Hostess/Host 


Full or Part Time No experience necessary Apply within 
University Center 6502 N. Grape Rd 
273-0088 
page4 


Reunion pending test results 
By KEN GUGGENHEIM 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Twelve years have passed since Maria's 6-month-old son was taken away. Salvadoran soldiers wrested him from her arms and carried him and other children to a helicopter. 
"I went to look in the window of the helicopter. but there were so many children, I couldn't distinguish my son," she said. 
In an orphanage near San Salvador, however, is a 12­year-old boy who resembles Maria. She believes he is her son. And in a few weeks, she will know for sure. 
Maria and the boy recently underwent genetic testing to see if they are related. 
DNA fingerprinting, most commonly associated with criminal cases, has become a tool for human rights groups trying to reunite parents and children separated by war. 
Genetic testing was used to reunite children with parents and grandparents after Argentina's "dirty war" of the 1970s and 1980s. But the Boston-based Physicians for Human Rights said Maria's case marks the first time it has been employed on a mother and child in El Salvador. 
The organization plans to use it in 10 mor-e cases in the Central American country, and eventually in Guatemala and Rwanda. 
"By starting this program and expanding it, we think it's going to be a significant pro­gram in protecting the human rights of children," said Dr. Robert Kirschner, a board member of the physicians group and deputy medical examiner of Cook County. Ill. 
Kirschner took the blood 

samples from Maria and the 
child last weekend. He refused 
to identify them further, citing 
patient confidentiality. 
Maria, who told her story in a videotaped interview released by the doctors group, learned by word of mouth that the child in the orphanage was probably hers, and she has been able to spend time with him there, Kirschnell" said. 
Maria said her son was taken during a nine-day counterin­surgency campaign in the northern mountain town of Chalatenango. Her husband was among 230 people killed, her child among 50 kidnapped, Kirschner said. The fighting was part of the civil war that lasted 12 years and claimed 75,000 lives. 
In the videotaped interview, Maria described how her moth­er tried to stop the soldiers from taking the child. "They hit my mother in the face, pulled her away and they took him from me," she said. 
Children taken from Chalatenango were eventually turned over to the Red Cross of El Salvador, which placed them in orphanages or arranged for their adoption. Kirschner said. 
Human rights groups work­ing with the Red Cross helped parents try to locate their chil­dren after the war ended in 1992. 
"Because many of these chil­dren were infants at the time that they were separated from their parents. the only way they can make identifications is by doing DNA testing," Kirschner said. 
-~-~ ~ ~~ --~----­
The Observer • NEWS Thursday, September 15, 1994 





Gene may help in fight against cancer 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Three teams of U.S. researchers have won the worldwide race to isolate the gene that causes the inherited form of breast cancer, the jour­nal Science reported today. 
The gene, called BRCA1, is believed to cause 5 percent of breast cancer cases. Isolation of the gene by researchers ­from the National Institutes of Health, Myriad Genetics Corp. 


and a University of Utah pr;ofes­sor -was first reported Tuesday by NBC News. 
Isolation of the gene will enable scientists to develop a test to identify women who carry BRCA1, giving them an opportunity to identify breast cancer or to make the more dif­ficult decision of having a mas­tectomy to forestall the disease. 
Some researchers believe such a test could be developed within two years. 
Scientists have known for 
To our one and only 

:U:O:U:OltiO, 

Happy Belated 20th Birthday 
BABY! 
Love Always, 

Your girls from Far/ 
years that the BRCA1 gene exists, and more than a dozen research facilities around the world have been working to pinpoint it. 
Science announced today that the work by Myriad Genetics' Douglas Easton, the University of Utah's Andrew Skolnick and Roger Wiseman of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences had passed peer review and would be printed in its Oct. 7 issue. 
But the journal was releasing copies of the work later today. 
About 182,000 women are diagnosed with breast cancer in the United States each year. and 46,000 die, according to the American Cancer Society. 

Experts have said women with the altered gene have about a 60 percent chance of developing breast cancer before age 50 and an 85 per­cent chance by age 65. 
The researchers couldn't immediately be reached for comment. NIH refused to dis­cuss the findings. 



The Observer 
the News Department is now accepting applications for 
Copy Editors 
Please submit a letter of intent and resume by Thursday, Sept. 15 at 5 p.m. Questions? Call Sarah Doran at 631-5323. 
11On 'The us!" 
phone: 631-6316 store hours: Mon-Sat: 9a.m.-5p.m. 
Enter to Win! win! WIN! 
1stPlace: (one LVinner) 
AGIANI' brand Mountain/Sport Bike from Albright's Bicycle Store 
2ndPLace: 
(tuJo LVinners) 
AJanSport Book Back Pack Filled With 40 
NEWCDs! 

3rdPlace: (one LVinner) 
A Sony Portable CD Player 
The Discman (D-133) 
drawing to be heLd on 10 I 1I 94 
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
• CIC 

e :::.~> Your Cycling and Fttn.•a Cent..­.. ~ AU. TEAP,.I.IN • PJ.CHJ • O..OT!-Mi • HEL.J,ElS &. SltAl!BONIOS "f'IWICHj'
• ~ l:l::a. AEP.-.RS ON AU W¥.ES Of BIKES • Ae XI ~y DECK 1..1' • AU. (III(ES A.SSae.ED 
: r~F1'"'i'1'4tW ~~.~ !?.~..:1!~88 : -Serving Michigana For 80 Years :-Where Your Daddy Bought His Bike • -Largest Selection of Bicycles in Michigana : -Voted #I Bicycle Store In Michigana 4th Year In ARow 

The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
r--------------------~ 

NO LI]lcroupon I~F!H=mi1 ! j
~2
: CD or 8 = ~ 
: I ~::~~t: I ~ ~ ~ ;
.L~-------------------~ 
• 

• ~'-'ii~lllilaiiiilllll' • 
: -*-FREE Giant U-Lock with Mj New Bicycle Purchase : : wrrn THIS COuroN. Exp!rea October 8, 1SS4 • • -Giant ATB's Starting At $199.95
•

• -Save Up To $350.00 On Selected Mcxlels : -Just 5 Minutes From Notre Dame 
FREE GIVEAWAYS STARTING THURSDAY-9 a.m. 
-------~------------~.._------------------------------~------­
Thursday, September 15, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Minorities, women under-represented in farms 

By ROBERT GREENE Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Minority and female farmers may lose thousands of dollars in government payments because white male farmers dominate local committees that run programs, says a private report released Wednesday. 
The study was conducted by two environmental groups, the Environmental Working Group and the National Audubon Society, that want changes in the local committee structure that would also put more envi­ronmentalists in control. 
"It's in line with our standard argument that USDA (the Department of Agriculture) needs to come into the modern era and serve more than agri­cultural interests," said Kenneth A. Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group. 
The groups support a propos­al by Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy to have the secretary appoint some committee mem­bers. 
Farm groups have opposed the move as anti-democratic. The House and Senate Agriculture committees removed the proposal from a pending bill to reorganize the Agriculture Department. 
But black and female mem-

APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
"The experience ofa lifetime" 
ATTENTION-All those interested in the Appalachia Seminar for this Fall Break!!! 
Don't forget to tum in your applications by 5 pm Tuesday, September 20 at the CSC 
Applications are still available for anyone interested 
And Remember-You'll be back in time for the game!!! 
????????Call Laura Stolpman 634-2145 or Shannon Dunn 273-0741 Angie Appleby 631-94 73 Dr. Jay Brandenberger 631-5293 
hers of the House Agriculture Committee are trying to revive some form of the original pro­posal. And the issue will cer­tainly come up in debate next year on the 1995 farm bill. 
The study found that in 1992, minorities were elected to 169, or 1.9 percent, of the 9,030 seats on county committees of the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, which runs commodity pro­grams. Minorities at the time represented 4.8 percent of those able to vote or run. 
Women were elected to 453 seats, or 5 percent, even though they made up 28 percent of those eligible to vote and be 

Scarf dispute divides France 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
Teachers are upset, Muslims outraged. The extreme right, for once, thinks the government is right on target. 
All agree on one thing: By decreeing that Muslim girls cannot wear traditional Islamic head coverings at public schools, the Education Ministry has rekindled one of the France's most divisive social debates. 
A coalition of moderate Muslim groups, mostly support­ers of secular education, said the "climate of intolerance developing in our country" has prompted them to consider pulling Muslim children out of state schools. 
"What crime have these girls committed to deserve a punish­ment?" the coalition asked in a statement, warning that Muslims risk feeling increasing­ly excluded from French soci­ety. 
The coalition demanded a meeting with Education 
elected. 
In one state, Mississippi, minorities accounted for 16 percent of eligible voters but had only one representative out of 245. 
The study also examined vari­ous internal findings by the department that the commit­tees typically assigned women and minority farmers lower "program yields" per acre. Those yields, based in part on historical production, help determine the volume of cotton, rice, corn, wheat and other crops on which government payments are made. 
The report noted that the rea­sons for the lower yields are varied and complicated, some­times including lower actual yields, reflecting smaller, poor­er farms with less to spend on fertilizer or herbicides. Soil types and other variables were not accounted for. 

Another factor is the 1985 farm bill, which froze yields for all producers in an effort to cut costs. 
But the groups said that more female and minority represen­tation would have led to better ways of reaching disadvantaged farmers. 
The study calculated the probable impact of yield differ­ences on assistance between 1986 and 1989. 
Minister Francois Bayrou, who ignited the controversy by dis­closing in a magazine interview published Saturday that he is prohibiting Islamic scarves at state schools. 
Teachers and school adminis­trators were almost unani­mously dismayed by Bayrou's tactics. 
The National Union of Secondary School Teachers said it was stunned by the "suddenness" of Bayrou's pro­nouncement, and the fact that he didn't consult with school personnel beforehand. 
The main union of school principals also questioned Bayrou's ban, saying its mem­bers preferred to deal with the controversy on a case-by-case basis through negotiation and compromise. 
When Bayrou informed the principals of the ban on Sunday he encouraged them to use their powers of persuasion with scarf-wearing girls before tak­ing more drastic action, such as expulsion. No girl has been expelled yet. 
Many educators and Islamic leaders are concerned that Muslims will feel discriminated against because Bayrou's ban does not extend to skullcaps and religious jewelry worn by some Jewish and Christian stu­dents. 

Bruno Megret, deputy leader of the far-right National Front, said there was no need to treat Islam equitably with "tradition­al European religions." He described Islam as "incompati­ble with our civilization and our laws," thanked Bayrou for imposing the ban and said local party officials would try to ensure that the policy was enforced. 
Bayrou said the government could accept "discreet religious signs" at school, but not "ostentatious signs that sepa­rate youths from each other." Islamic head coverings under­mine the role of public schools in promoting assimilation of students of foreign origin, he said. 
The dispute over Islamic scarves has been a national controversy since three Muslim girls were expelled from a Paris-area junior high school in 1989. After much soul-search­ing, the Socialist government backed away from an outright ban and several court decisions upheld students' rights to wear scarves. 
ART PRINT & POSTER SALE 
Sponsored by LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
FEATURING: 

• Prints of Master Artists 
(Including the works of Dali, Gauguin, Kandinsky, Mlltisse, Miro, Monet, O'Keeffe, Picasso, Remington, Renoir, & Van Gogh, plus many others) 
• Personality Posters 
• 
Rock Bands 

• 
Black & White Photography 


• 
Contemporary Posters 


• Framed Prints 
DATES: TODAY Thru FRIDAY TIME: 9:30A.M. -6:00 P.M. PLACE: NOTRE DAME ROOM (2nd FLOOR), LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
3 PRINTS FOR ONLY $17! 


page 6 The Observer ·PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 15, 1994 
~I just cleared up "The Case Of ~ The Vanishing Ink;' and was cleaning off my desk when it hit me like a ream of paper: even my most brilliant work looked dull. _::::!);) The reason? Everything was in black and white. So I said to myself, "Mr. Print Detectiv~, you need a color 

--~----"!!i;() printer." I made a phone call and received a tip 
from one of my sources at 1-800-848-4123, "The Canon® BJC~600 is a sure thing for color." 
It sounded good, but I had to investigate. After all, am Nick Canon, Print Detective. 
Now, there are a lot gray areas in color printers. Like cost-per-page, color quality and speed. So I made a bee-line to the lab to have a little chat with my pal, Specs. I knew he knew what I needed to know. 
''The facts prove the BJC-600 costs about half as much 
to operate as .. most other color J•(Ink jet printers. / ~ ·.·. 

·NICK 


His desk looked like a bomb had gone off. There were printer parts everywhere. "Specs, you ever seen a Canon BJC-600?" up through his looking at 
was m luck. He had just examined a BJC-600 from ink to nozzles. 
"What's it all mean?:· I asked. Specs quoted The Hard Copy Observer verba­tim, "No matter how you slice it, the BJC-600 costs about half as much to operate as most other ink jet printers:' "How can that be?" I questioned. 
"Elementary. There's a separate ink cartridge for each color, so you don't have to go and spend a fortune replacing all the other colors when one runs out." I 
THE BJC-600 PERSONAL COLOR PRINTER 
• 
Print.t Brilliant Color AnJ Sharp Black And Whtte Output On Plain Paper 

• 
4 Separate Ink CartriJge.J For High SpeeJ And Low 0Perall Operating Co.Jt.J 



• 
100 Sheet Automatic Feeder 


• 
Ea.Jily HanJlu Letter AnJ Le,qa! Size Paper, And Enl'elope., 

• 
Come.J With A 2-Year Lt'mtteJ IUzrranty And An "ln,ltantE.-cchan,qe" Prc~qram 


was went on. "It's also optimized for printing brilliant color on low-cost plain 
paper." "But I thought I had to fork out all my dough on special coated paper," I exclaimed. 
"Not with the BJC-600," he 
replied "I see," I said. He said. :uJ I hadn't seen anything yet, and showed me a print 
sample. The color was more than swell. It was killer. 
"What about speed?" I inquired. "It's fast" he fired back. He slowly explained, "You see the BJC-600 has three times as many nozzles as Its 
nearset competitor." It was heady stuff. but I knew what it all meant. 
I had finally found printer that was head and shoulders above the rest, and 
wouldn't cost an arm and leg to own. 
Well, I guess you could say that "Before you buy a printer, it pays and saves to investigate." 





Canon 
" 

page?
Thursday, September 15, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Talks continue on Korean weapon production 
Gallucci said the reactors
program away from weapons The United States has offered nuclear reactors. 
By FRANK BAJAK 
to replace North Korea's reac­The newspaper. Chosun Ilbo, could be completed in the next 
Associated Press production. 
Neither side provided any tors with light-water reactors said the North Koreans had three years and produce "hun­BERLIN details of the talks. that are safer and produce less spent that much so far on the dreds and hundreds" of pounds weapons-grade plutonium than two reactors. 
of plutonium, a key ingredient 
Amid reports of a deadlock, The negotiations Wednesday, 
in nuclear weapons. 
U.S. and North Korean diplo­the last in a series that started the Russian-designed graphite mats held a third day of techni­Saturday, began at midmorning reactors North Korea is now North Korea is suspected of In. Washington, State 
Department spokesman
cal talks on American initiatives and were expected to last into developing. trying to conceal a nuclear 
weapons development pro­Michael McCurry said the talks
to steer the Koreans' nuclear the evening. 
A South Korean newspaper gram. Washington's chief nego­in Berlin were highly technical. 

on Wednesday reported a dead­tiator with the North Koreans, "There is nothing about these lock in the talks caused in part Robert Gallucci, said in Tokyo talks in which points are being by North Korea's demand that on Wednesday that the question negotiated between the two the United States pay $1.2 bil­of how to replace the two reac­sides. You can't make offers lion to compensate for stopping tors was a sticking point in and get answers. That's not the construction of its graphite Berlin. purpose of these discussions,"
1. Student Rates Available 
he said. Asked for detail about the
2. Stairmaster, Exercise bikes & treadmills 
talks, McMurry said "they
3. No membership fee 
talked about cost issues ... but they are not into a dialogue

The Observer 
about how something could get paid for." "They have had some discus­

the News Department is now 
sions about alternate power sources," he said. A dozen experts from each

accepting applications for the 
country have taken part in the Berlin talks. They are also dis­cussing the fate of 8,000 cor­

Business Page Copy Editor 
roding fuel rods removed from North Korea's experimental 5­megawatt reactor. It has been

position. Please submit a letter of intent and resume 
estimated that the rods, if reprocessed, could produce

by Thursday, Sept. 15 at 5 p.m. Questions? Call 
enough plutonium for about Michael Martin at 631-5323. 
five atomic bombs. 


CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
someone's son, just like Kevin is to me. 
BEING BORN 

These stories appear on the news every night; one gets covered until another 
one takes its place. We don't need to hear about tragedy, however, to recognize the sacre~ness of each person. One night while I was still in the hospital after giving 
On June 3, I gave birth to a baby boy. His name is Kevin James Barrett. In 

honor 9f;~~ t~rfe-~~nth birthda~ No~.;e Damo beat Northwestern. My husband secretly hoped Kevin would get a game ball for the occasion, but such good fortune birth to Kevin, the two of us sat silently together. I looked at him, and looked and 
looked, and began to understand in a whole new way how significant it is that God sent God's own son to us. We were each born, just as Jesus was, the child of a was not to be. 
woman. Every last one of us came to this world through another person and in the We've made all the important mathematical calculations necessary when a very deepest recesses of our selves we need other people. Through the life and death child's parents both work at Notre Dame: Kevin will (hopefully) be a member of the of]esus, God's own son, God tells us, "Pay attention to other people! Look at your Class of 2016 (someone told me to be sure and add in the year he'll take off after 
parents, your children, the stranger you pass on the quad, each unique person who firm "No, and that's final" in the mirror). died on flight 427, James Burasa and his father. Each and every one ofyou is worth loving. Know that I treasure and love each ofyou and wish only that you love one 
high school to ride his Harley cross-country. Oh, great--I'm already practicing my 
another as well."
But something else happened to me this summer. Kevin's birth has transformed 

the way I see other people. While I was pregnant, a friend of mine (who has a five­year-old girl) told me that now she has a new appreciation for the universality of The birth of Kevin James Barrett has changed me, and not just into a person 
with a renewed appreciation for a good night's sleep. I hope that my renewed sensebirth: whenever she looks at people, she thinks, "Wow, they were born!" Now I do it ofwonder at life never fades. I hope I will be able to help Kevin understand how too--I look around me when I'm walking on the quad or in the mall and I realize much I love him, and how deeply we are called to love one another.
that every single person I see was born just the way Kevin was, just the way I was, 

just the way we were. We each had a mother who was pregnant with us and who carried us for nine months and who gave birth to us. Hey, there's no other way to get KateS. Barrett here, folks, and being born is something that absolutely every single one of us shares, 
TWENTY-THIRD SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME
even if we have nothing else whatsoever in common. 
I got a letter the other week from Fr. Tom McDermott, who many of you may remember. He's over in Mrica now, in Uganda. In his letter he told a story that again 

WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT
made me realize that it is person by person that we often understand and appreciate life most fully. 

SACRED HEART BASILICA 
... we had a wonderfol ceremony to witness and receive the final vows ofjames Burasa ... a Tutsi from Rwanda, whose family came out to Uganda in the '60s during a revious killing spree. Only last year his father and brother and many others returned to 

Sat. Sept. 17 5:00p.m. Rev. John Conley, C.S.C. 
try life again in Kigali, and on the very day ofhis final profession, james received 

Sun. Sept. 18 10:00 a.m. Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C.
confirmation from his cousins that his father was killed in this recent set ofmassacres. 

11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 
The news accounts about Rwanda kept documenting the numbers -thousands and thousands dead --but suddenly I was able to see them one by one by one, James 
FO·R
Burasa's father, a baby just like Kevin, a mother just like me, a brother or sister just like you. 
Last Sunday at Mass, a young woman prayed for her mother's boss -he had died on the now-too-familiar flight 427 outside of Pittsbmgh. And once again, through all the numbing accounts of" 131 dead," the matter -of-fact stories about engines and reverse thrusters and unidentifiable body parts, it came home to me that each and every person is a sacred life. Each of us was born -that man had been 
·., 
" \ 




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor ········;···········George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ..............•............. Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Krisren Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. 
Commentaries. letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not ne~ssarily rhose 
of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production "631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Genera11nformation 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu 
Thursday, September 15, 1994 



• I, FARRINGTON 
Opposition senators cast as 'real villains' of Haiti 
Hades, I mean Haiti, is a hot topic right now. Maybe not here at Notre Dame, though. Most students would probably rather see an invasion of East Lansing, or at least a commando raid on East Lansing's most capable linemen. But Haiti it is, for the moment anyway. 
I have a sentimental regard for Haiti. Longtime readers will remember my mock concern for the tiny nation before last year's FSU game, when I proposed forfeiting the big win to show our sup-

Josh Ozersky 
port. Was I so wrong? We coughed up the national title anyway, and now we have to invade Haiti. An ounce of pre­vention .... 
I write this, however, with a facetious­ness which can't wholly hide my dismay. Not with the President, or with the plans to invade Port Au Prince and set up Father Aristide. We have an empire to run, after all, and as superpower demonstrations of potency go, this is better than most. Unlike the pointless invasions of Grenada, Panama, and Iraq produced by the Republican impresarios of years past, Haiti is actually in the hands of people more wicked even than even we give them credit for. I mean, my God, if we're willing to fight to keep the Emir of Kuwait on his bronze-age throne, isn't it worth our while to elimi­nate the roving death squads who mur­der orphans in Haiti's streets every day? And what about the poor witch doctors? (I drift into facetiae again; it's hard to argue for the moral propriety of this sort of thing, even when you see the sense of it.) 
The fact is, like most Americans, dtJn't really care who governs in Haiti, a grim place with disproportionate amounts of disease, poverty, and bar­barism. Like most Americans, I want Haiti to become someplace like St. Thomas or Bermuda. I don't want to hear about its slaughtered orphans and pediatric AIDS wards. I certainly wouldn't want anybody I know to be at the wrong end of its machetes and voodoo. All my instincts are against get­ting involved in Haiti, and much of my thinking too. 
But the President, whatever his other reasons for pursuing this course, seems to believe it the right thing to do. Superpower credibility is involved, no doubt, the whole fool's game of proving to potential enemies that we are still a "great nation," etc; and no doubt he believes that the particles of the elec­torate will cluster in his corner when he waves the flag over the vanquished dic­tators, thus helping to mobilize support for things that actually matter. But I tend to doubt he was sitting around looking for a fight with Congress. I do not credit the idea that he got jingoism overnight. And, no matter what various lowlife parasites say about him on syndi­cated TV and midwestern feature syndi­cates, he is completely above the cyni­cism needed to launch this thing in the name of political expediency. Clinton believes, rightly or wrongly, in his cause. 
Could we only believe the same of Dole or Gingrich! These are the real villains of this Haiti invasion, and every other invasion too. These cynical hacks have no opinions or beliefs of any kind. If they ever had a conviction it would die of loneliness. There are conservative republicans, even -get this -conserv­ative fundamentalist republicans, who are on the other side of the pole from me, but whom I respect in their beliefs in the same tentative, abstract way I respect this uncharacteristic project of President Clinton's. But a Gingrich, a Quayle, a Bush, a Hatch, a Helms: what can be said of these men other than that they represent the worst of our system? If the President had opposed the inva­sion, you can bet your bottom dollar that Dole would be out thumping the tub for the boat people, and calling the presi­dent an irresolute milquetoast, and a draft-dodging peacenik, and all the rest of it. (As if the Republicans didn't wish the boat people in Davy Jones' locker with all their hearts.) 

Ah, Dole and parasites like him: all our ills spring from them. Clinton could talk to Castro, health care could have been discuss.ed reasonably, the NRA would be at the gun range where it belongs, and maybe Clinton would even feel secure enough to get the CIA to start accounting for its billions. Then we might even learn a thing or two about all these banana dictators we keep hav­ing to overthrow. 
Send the 82nd Airborne to the Senate! Or even the witch doctors. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. 

• DOONESBURY 
WHeN W& S"AY "Kif?f3 F/~7;'' 
W/3 NOT ONL-Y MeAN !Tt3 7H& f'I~T '3T&P ?DtUARJJ 7RUc OJJ1­PR£H&N?IV& cov~. tutAt80 MeAN 7HATK/{}!3-A/.J.. KIPS­AI?£(}()!< FIRST aJNC£RN/ 
TOO MANYfAM!tJ&s/XJNOTfit:IV/3 
R£AOYACa5S TO oetliNTHEAL-TH 
Sli/?.V/C/55. PR£VCNTAT!Vt' CARe 
tWfJW6R£ATL-Y/MPIVV/3 71?EAT­
Mffi.ITOrW/3RY7HIN6FROM tW< 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
V!Cl[R!A 1 YOU COM& 
BACKH&f<El 
''~r every man who lives 
I 
r without freedom, the rest of us must face the guilt." 
-Ullian Hellman 
i 





ACCE,NT
Thursday, September 15, 1994 page9 
Public Enemy's long awaited Megg Age 
designed to enter your mind and make A raucous introduction explodes into continues his rage against the bandwag­you think, while the other half is just­the first and strongest jam on the disc, onesque rappers who have no positive gjibberish; this is seemingly not the case "Whole Lotta Love Goin' On in the message and hope for their listeners. with Mess Age-all the lyrics are raw to Middle of Hell," which features so many Ironically enough, most of these rappers of 1993, Public Enemy's Muse Sick-N­the core, with no wasted word. layers of sound that it is impossible to were probably influenced by Public Hour Mess Age went through countless "Give it Up," the first single, is a hear them all unless it is played Really Enemy; they took their own message too delays, one name change, and a couple denouncement of the current "gangsta Loud. far, however, and are probably stung by of Flavor Flav ("Sparkplug") arrests posing," "40's," and "blunts" that have A key factor in every Public Enemy Chuck D's lyrical posture. The sublime before it was finally in stores on August become commonplace in today's hip-hop song ever written is inspiration. When "rap, guns, drugs, and money" chant is 25, of this year. music. The surprisingly laid-back beat Chuck D writes something down and eerie throughout the background as it 
Along with the Flav, Chuck D ("The dominates, supported by a low, deep then figures out a way to express it onto meshes with sampled bits of news. Rhyme Animal"), Terminator X ("Cut bass groove. record, he means it. This is a man who Xecutioner"), The Security of the First A signal of desperate urgency is was recruited by Rick Rubin to rap, but Although the Mess Age is their World, and The Interrogators make up thwarted through the speakers in "What didn't want to because he thought it was strongest yet, the Muse Sick leaves a few the group. Side You On," which features fantastic just for kids. All Chuck Ridenhour (his grooves to be desired. Still hardcore by 
Critics were lining up to dismiss the live drums by Nathaniel Townsley III as given last name) ever wanted to do was anybody's standards, it doesn't match album months before it came out, well as extraordinary vocals by Chuck, reach people with his art. the credentials of Nation or 1990's Fear declaring that Chuck D was too old and Flav, and all the background singers. "Death of a Carjacka" is an almost OfA Black Planet. had nothing else to rap about. However, And if you thought the beat slowed spoken-word (a Ia the end of "I Don't When one of the most important and as the Flav tells you on their 1988 mas­down, "Bedlam 13:13" continues the Wanna Be Called") essay on a momen­influential groups of our generation terpiece, It Takes A Nation ofMillions to furious attack. "Good E nuff to know no tary lapse of rationality resulting in a releases their first full-length CD in Hold Us Back, "Don't Believe the Hype." endotrhru it out the window/Along wit failed attempt to steal a car. Amidst three years, there is bound to be hype, 
Where the message is concerned, the super nintendo," snaps Chuck with slippery organ licks and wah-wah infect­both good and bad. Muse Sick-N-Hour Public Enemy has scored their hardest Flava providing the usual support. ed guitar samples, Chuck tells the story: Mess Age continues the PE tradition of album yet. With no spaces in between "Live and Undrugged Part I" is a pow­"This ain't nothin but another/Headline amazing production, completely up-to­songs, they don't even take one second erful exploration into dark funk, with a statistic, two brothers/But one went bal­date hip-hop, excellent rhymes and to catch their breath. Chuck D has said string section reminiscent of a horror listic." vocals, and should definitely not be in the past that half of his rhymes are flick and bass lines thicker than butter. In "So Whatcha Gone Do Now," Chuck missed. 


Yo/ Bum Rush the Show It Takes a Nation of Milions Fear of a Black Planet Apocalypse '91 The Enemy Greatest Misses Muse Sick-N-Hour Mess 1987 to Hold Us Back 1990 Strikes Black 1992 Age 
*** 1988 ****; 1991 ***; 1994 
***** **** **** 
Storytelling at The Snite combines oral traditions with works of art 
Diana Matthias. Photo b Stave Moriarity "We hope to combine the visual art­Oliver Gibson and Saint Mary's Communications profesor Carla Johnson read a Native American scary story for a 1993 Hallo~een story­telling session at The Snite Museum of Art. 
work, the art of storytelling, and the art of folksong," she added. expanded," she said. According to Matthias, she hopes to stories of "Winter and Festivity" will be 
"The museum provides the works of Some of these sessions will focus on see the same type of enthusiasm for the told; January 28, there will be stories of art, but the storytelling sessions are a stories of a particular ethnic back­upcoming session on Latin American "Betrayal and Rescue;" March 4, there way to bring together traditional stories ground. The session scheduled for tales. will be a session of "Lives of the and poetry with the artwork," she said. October 8, will focus on "Stories and "The storytelling sessions provide a Artists;" and to close the year there will 
Although the storytelling sessions Folksongs From Latin America." traditional oral history background of be a session on "Spring and Rebirth" on ­
always attract a large audience of all Students from the Notre Dame Hispanic different civilizations from which we April 29. ages, there is always room for more American Association will select and hope all participants can learn," "Toys That Come to Life," will take eager participants and listeners, espe­perform the readings for this session. Matthias said. place Saturday from 10:30 a.m. until 
cially among the student body, accord­Last spring, a storytelling session on The Snite has also scheduled five noon in the Annenberg Auditorium of ing to Matthias. African folktales took place, and there other sessions for the 1994-95 year: the Snite Museum. The storytelling ses­"If more students take an interest in was a great deal of student participa­October 22, there will be stories of sions are free and open to the public, 
the sessions, the program could be tion. "Beauties and Beasts;" December 10, and for people of all ages. 
-

Bud Selig makes it official, the baseball season is over 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 15, 1994 

By BEN WALKER  The exciting pennant races, the  1994 season will be, it may be  owner Peter Angelos agreed  strike leaves us no choice but to  
Associated Press  expanded playoffs,  even the  Bud Selig at a press conference  with  idea,  but  wanted  to  take this action."  
NEW YORK By the time Bud Selig stepped to the microphone and began talking about it being a sad day, everyone knew what was com­ing.  World Series, finished. Yet when Selig announced Wednesday that the season was canceled, not even he could an­swer the big question: What's next?  protesting pain and gnashing his teeth but nevertheless going ahead and dashing the hopes and dreams of many people," union head Donald Fehr charged.  reword the resolution; Cincinnati owner Marge Schott said minor leaguers should be used to continue the season, Selig said. "This is a sad day," Selig said in a statement sent by fax.  President Clinton, meanwhile, said maybe it was time for gov­ernment to take some action and consider taking away base­ball's antitrust exemPt.ltW. In the meantime, t  
Baseball was done for 1994.  "When people think back to what the final image of the  Twenty-six of the 28 teams voted to cancel. Baltimore  "Nobody wanted this to hap­pen, but the continuing player  may soon start taking shape.  
Classifieds  The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2  
cents per character per day, including all spaces.  

One or two reliable students who Macintosh LC-2 (4-80) SEATTLE A TTY'S WILL PAY TOP Have pairs of Stanford and Airforce Need Stnfrd stdnt or GA tixs, call enjoy children needed one Thurs­14" BW monitor $FOR 2 STANFORD G.A.S GA's willing to trade for Michigan or Chris x1197 
NOTICES 

day a month, 8:45am -11 :30am, to purchased spring 1993 (219) 289-3412 Fl. State GAs!! I Contact x4097 
babysit at a local church during $900 or closest offer asap. $$1 NEED 2 Purdue GAs$$ Questioning Your Sexuality? Want women's Bible study. Pay and Robbie 273-9213 NEED 2 BYU GA'S AND 4 PUR­Call Rich at 273-2474 a safe place to talk? Try the transportation. First date: 9/22194. DUE GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$$ Need 2 BYU GA tix. Need 3 Counseling Center Rm300 7:30 Call Nancy, 287-4002. 92 NISSAN SENTRA, 53K (ROAD call Brian@ X1739 Stanford STD. tix. Need 2-6 I need stud. tix for Purdue. Call 
• 
MILES), 2DR, AC, CRUISE, CASS, Stanford GA tix. I'm in some serious Tom at 271-1390 ASAP . 
•••cOACH'S SPORTS BAR*.. PB, PS, 1 FEMALE OWNER, WANTED: BYU GA'S WILL PAY NEED so please call Rachael at TROOP NOTRE DAME Now hiring All-Star Cooks and GREAT SHAPE, ASKING $7200 BIG BUCKS. CALL KRISTEN OR x4667. Will pay BIG MONEY. Looking to trade 2 Navy GA's for hip-hop dance classes Servers for part time work. CALL 288-8195 (LEAVE MES­KATE@ 271-0224 2 Air Force GA's! Call Liane 4-4989 
begin TONIGHT Weekends and a positive attitude a SAGE) NEED 1 MICH, 4 PUR., at the Rockne Am 219. must. Apply in person. 2 BYU GA'S ARE NEEDED!! + 2 STAN. STUD TIX. Need lotsa Navy Tix or GAs Two sessions: 8-9pm 85 Honda Accord $1 ,500 CALL NICOLE@ 1287. CALL 234-8958. Have Big Family 
9-10pm SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: Call Harold at 273-9581 Charlie x3830 Don't forget your $2 club dues. Are you interested in making $8,000 DESPERATELY NEED I need 2 GA's for the Navy Questions? Call Emile x3589 nex1 summer while managing and FOR SALE: 4 Purdue GA's Game!Call Ryan at 3333. HELP! Need 2 GA or studs for 
or Lisa 273-6033 operating your own business? SMITH CORONA PWP 3850 PER­OR new family willing to adopt BYU. KATE@2732 Triple 'A' Student Painters seeks SONAL WORD PROCESSOR a soon-to-be disowned son Will trade 4 BYU GA's for 4 managers to fill Ml and IN regions. WITH SCREEN. PAID $400. SELL Call Troy 255-1740 Stanford GA's. Call Scott (NO 91) Need 2 Purdue GA's.Call John 
Confidential Coming Out No exp. necessary. Great resume FOR $200. CALL 272-3753 AFTER @ (201)402-9372 x3283 Support Group builder. Contact Michael Willis at 7 PM OR LV. MESSAGE & WILL I need BYU stud tix-call Aaron Tonight7pm x2040 or 1-800-543-3792. CALL BACK. @1889 $$$$$$$$$$$ For sale: 1 married & 1 stud tix for Q-line 287-6665 for info Parents & Iii sis A flying in for the navy & purdue. call shannon @ 
HELP WANTED: BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS I need 2 PURDUE stud. tix. Call Bill STANFORD GAME. Need 2-4 x4236 ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER CALL COLIN AT 273-6205 x1862 GA's! MORRIS, INC. ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS Please Call Dayne 273-4412 I need Purdue GA's. Call CUSTOM SCREENPRINTING NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND TASCAM Multi-track Cassette NEEDED: NO FAN NEEDS 4 GA Tl $$$$$$$$$$$ Eric at 232-8337 High Quality, Ts, Sweatshirts, etc. ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY Deck. 4 tracks, 12 inputs. Call 631-CKETS FOR NO/PURDUE GAME. GREAT PRICES! NEWS SERVICES, 7133 PLEASE CALL BRENT Need 4 Navy Ga's 2 married stud tix book 4 sale. Contact Katie Adams x2845 232-3205 OR 288-9361 . (602)820-7 469 David x3406 2730673 For Sale 84 Honda Accord LX 
SKI RESORT JOBS -Hiring for 85,000 miles , 1 owner , all mainte­I NEED PURDUE TICKETSIIIII NEED 2 GAs TO PURDUE Please! I need 4 NAVY GAs and USED TEXTS CHEAP!!!! many positions for winter quarter. nance by Honda, $2500 or best $$$$GA OR STUD CALL x3213 2 STANFORD GAs! Buy & sell used books at the only Over 15,000 openings! For more offer 273 0928 X4976 Mary Beth x4220 hip place in town 1 0-6M-S/9-3Sun information call: (206)634-0469 ex1. ••• ATTENTION ALL VERY ••• PANDORA'S BOOKS V55841 I NEED ONE NAVY G.A. "COMPASSIONATE FEMALES" ND ave & Howard St 233-2342 TICKETS CALL MIKE X3692 Desperately need 1 Stud. Tix for Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call 
National Park Jobs -Over 25,000 HTH at Purdue and BYU games! I! Sue at 277-8995 PAPA JOHN'S is HIRING! openings! (including hotel staff, tour ST. JUDE, WANT 2-4 SEASON OR I HAVE 2 PURDUE GAs. I WANT Please call Steve x3213 -delivery & inside personnel guides, etc.) Benefits & bonuses! INDIVIDUAL GA TIX. 2 AIR FORCE GAs .... PLEASE I need 5 Purdue Stud. Tix -flexible schedule Apply now for best positions. Call: 312-404-4903 DAN. CALL IF YOU WANT TO TRADEI 2 Stanford & 2 Navy GA's -top pay 1-206-545-4804 ext. N55841 Call Katie at X2719. Thank you I NEED BYU GA'S. BYU STD'S, I will pay big bucks. I mean huge$!! -1 0-40 hour schedules. available WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU AND 2 STANFORD GA'S. This is not a frosh joke add!!! Call 
-1/2 price pizza TICKETS. CALL MIKE X-3767. Kit 1670 -EOE WANTED: TIX FOR PURDUE 800-922-2327 JANET. NEED 3 GAs or STUD. tix for PUR­call271-1177 GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. DUE call Rob x-4333 NEED 2 NAVY GA'S PLEASE 
JILL 273-6942 I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. CALL SUZV AT 4072 I need 2 Stanford students. 272-6551 Ticket Trade: Have 2 Stanford Call Carrie 273-6301
ILOST & FOUND I 
GAs, need to trade with 2 Purdue I NEED 3 PURDUE GAs-x4872 Desperately need 1-3 GA's for Air Need tix: 5 BYU G.A'S; 4 STAN­GAs, call 273-0226. 
PERSONAL

FOUND-Force, Navy or BYU. Please call FORD G.A'S; 2 STANFORD We still have 4 married student tick­HUFFY 3-SP LADY'S BIKE -BUR­Ann@ x4544. STUD.--CALL JOE @X2765 I need 2-4 GAs or 1 stud. ticket for et booklets for sale (NO id GUNDY. CALL SGT. COTTRELL 1-any home game! Please call soon! required!). Will sell whole booklet or DJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJ 8340 SOCCER REFEREES! Students STANFORD GA'S NEED 4. Lindi-284-5151 just individual games. 
needed to referee soccer games for MATT 257-0564 Call Sean@ x 1101. The Alumni-Senior Club is looking FOUND: A camera. Call Tom x2212 southside elementary school for a OJ to work busy nights, espe­(Grades 5-8), located near DESPERATELY SEEKING GAs for Need GA's for Purdue! Call Jeff cially football weekends. Please Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. All PURDUE and NAVY. PLEASE X2174 I NEED PURDUE TIX! pick up an application at the

WANTED 

games scheduled between 4 and HELP -$$$. Call Alisa -634-4355. SANDY x4638 Student Activities office and return it 
5:30 pm, Monday-Friday, HELP!!! I NEED 3 PURDUE GA'S by Friday, Sept. 16. EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING Sept. 9-0ct 29. $15-$20 per game. $$$CALL JEANNIE x2891$$$ FOR SALE: 2 STD ticket booklets BREAK TRIPS! SELL 8 TRIPS & Must have referee uniform. Call DESPARATEL Y NEEDED: (or just individual games) and 2 Fun WOrk--ijOod tips! GO FREE! BEST TRIPS & 291-4200 or 291-8731. STUDENT OR GA'S FOR NEED 2 TICKETS FOR STAN­Married Student booklets (or just PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, STANFORD, PURDUE, NAVY FORD GAME SO PARENTS games) No ID required. Call Sean DJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJ JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT AND A.F .. CALL RACH 233-1761 CAN SEE FIRST NO FOOTBALL at 634-1101 RESUME EXPERIENCE! 1-800-I need a couch (271-9223) GAME. CALL MARIANNE X3295 678-63861 I need 2 Purdue GAs for my par­WANTED: PHEMALE PHISHEADS 
NEED 3 BYU GA TIX & 1 STUD ents. Name your price. Call Jim at PHOLLOW PH ISH PART TIME WORK AVAILABLE BYU call 1722 if you have them I NEED 2 STANFORD GA'sl 289-5486. PHALL BREAK. SHOWS 10/25-27. TAKING PHYSICAL INVENTO­Call Pat : 289-3736 
FOR RENT CALL MATT@277-9926;SLIM@ RIES. WORK AROUND YOUR I NEED 2 Purdue GAs II 271-9676 
SCHEDULE. DAYS AND/OR ROOMMATE needed. Female pre!. Will pay big $$$ I NEED 2 STANFORD GA'SI Need GAs WEEKENDS. $5.25 PER HOUR Oak Hill Condo. Own room & bath. Please call Amy 4-3427 Call Pat : 289-3736 Any Home Game Seamaisin at The Midway Tavern, CALL 272-0408 CLAt\ICY INVEN­Call 273-4485. 4-3703 Mishawaka, Every Thursday 
TORY SERVICES NEED LOTS OF BYU TIX HAVE Need 2 stud & 2 GA for BYU or air 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, AIR FORCE force. Have navy/purdue for trade. $$$Wanted: Two Stanford & Hey, Hannah-RESORT JOBS-Earn to $12/hr. + NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED & PURDUE TIX. call shannon @ x4236 B.Y.U. G.A.'s. If you have the tks., You are the Honey Queen. tips. Theme Parks, Hotels, Spas, & BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO CALL ERIN 4015. I have the cash.$$$ Call Eric 4073. (Ha, Ha) more. Tropical & Mountain destina­NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE -you knew it was coming. tions worldwide. Call (206)632-0150 OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219-HELP! Wanted: 1 student tix or 2 I need MANY Stanford GAs I have ext. R55841 773-2034 GA's to Purdue. Please call Mary at $$ and/or stud tix to BYU, Navy and I HAVE 4 PU AND 4 NAVY GA Student Activities is now hiriflQ 
#634-2994. AF to trade! Amy x4838 TIX. NEED TO TR.A~r;:r,:,;; SOUND TECHs--apply at 31-5 
WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST STANFOPn.J liX. Lafortune by Friday, Sept. 16 GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & I need 2 BYU GAs. 634-1710. SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO­BREAKFAST-Historic Home, quiet Will pay Big $$$. 1 PURDUE STU TIX 4 SALE\ Here & feeling kinda queer? 
--> 

MOTE SPRING BREAK TO setting, 4 guest rooms, shared Please call Laura: 284-4328. CALL MICHELE @ 3887 WA)"~TED: ONE PURDUE TICKET, Tonight 7pm 
JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, baths. 20 minutes to campus. CU',"uD. OR G.A. Q-line 287-6665 for info FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE 616-695-6321. SEEKING TO BUY TWO OR FOUR WANTED: 2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUD. CALL TODD: 273-5352 TRAVEUCOMMISSIONS! SUN GA TICKETS TO ANY OR ALL TIX FOR BYU. WILLING TO PAY Play Ultimate! 
SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710. 
NOTRE DAME HOME FOOTBALL $$$PLEASE CALL MARY AT 273-I NEED FOUR TICKETS TO THE BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. GAMES. CALL BILL HOGAN, DUR­2926. STANFORD GAME ON OCTOBER Quality Copies. Quickly!!! PART TIME WAREHOUSE WORK PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC ING DAY AT OFFICE AT 000 THE COPY SHOP 000
1. CALL B. J. AT 1244. 

I need BYU GA's and student LaFortune Student Center time order fillers and stockers. 219-291-7153. 782-6995, AFTER 10 PM AT TIXI!II Please call Chris @ WILL TRADE 2 STAN FOR 2 FSU Phone 631-COPY 
Accepting applications for part­EVENTS. (217) 
Approximately 20-25 hrs weekly. (217)698-9267. x4485. CALL KAREN X4290 Apply at Richmond Master Dis!. 1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR 
We're Open 4202 Technology Dr. (west on RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS NEEDED: WANTED 3 GA EITHER NO VS NEED GA'S TO ALL HOME Early, Late, & Weekends!ll 
Cleveland Ad to Technology Dr.), PROPERTIES. 272-6306 TICKETS FOR THE BC GAME. PUR, STAN, BYU CALL COL 215-GAMES. CALL JOE AT 2712. 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 or call Chris at 239-0310. CALL LIZ AT 284-5012. 355-7131 
LaFortune Student Center Need 3 GAs for any home game. Phone 631-COPY 


FOR SALE

MACRI'S DELl -BOTH LOCA­NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S! Call Mike 674-5125 TIONS call Erin @ x2770 NO FAMILY REUNION needs Lynn--Qne of these days, we 
Stanford TX. TOP DOLLAR. Call Wanted 2 or 3 GA's together for will be famous "stray cows" Now hiring all positions. Good RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR 
517-332-4719. BYU 10/15 or Air Force 11/19 Call and we won't have to deal with rah-rah's or evenings of starting pay plus many benefits and FOR ONLY $79 FOR TWO I NEED 2 G.A. TIX FOR PURDUE 
incentives including bonus pay and SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV­CALL grace x4290 Lara 219/273-8961 TO TRADE -8 (6 TOGETHER) commando exercises at the
ex1ra vacation days. 214 Niles Ave. ERY CALL: 282-1351,277-7273 Grape Rd. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, WANTED: 2 AF GA'S 
STANFORD FOR FSU. CHRIS OR need 1 st. tix for purdue library. Think positive! Its only Apply within. 272-5959. 4-2628 -MESSAGE ED BULLEtT 800-786-8723. call Matt X4327 gonna get better. -T&H 
-

With Apples special low student pricing, you can get aterrific deal on Macintosh; MacintosW-the worlds fastest Mac~ And because Macintosh is still the easiestpersonal corn-the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the afford-pute~ you won't have to dig through complex manuals. Plus, with low student pricing, aMac able Macintosh Performa; which comes complete with lots ofpowerful software to help is as easy to afford as it Is to use. All ofwhich makes it the ideal time to Ap 1 .1. get you through college. You can also choose the portable Apple" PowerBook" or the Power discover the power all college students need. The power to be yourbest~ p1e . 
-
tf.1u:f.3
amteagtMt. 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 
------------------·-·---~-­
page 11 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
played perhaps an even greater role. 
"We were the better-condi­tioned team," said Petrucelli. "At the end of the game our players were still running and 
Attention 
Com~ties 


partie ipants!!! 
come to the 2nd annual 
KICK~OFF DAY 
anyone who has particioated in Communities NO welcome 
• get your community started for the new year 
• regroup with others who have 111ost11 their communities 
• let us know how we can help you this year 

(?\MPUSMINISTRY 
QUESTIONS?? call Kate Barrett at Campus Ministry: 1·5242 
e 
u:ilb CD·ROM. ~Color Plus It Di.¢y, ~ky/Jotmlandmouse. 
Sunday, September 18 
1:00 • 3:00 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
REFRESHMENfS WILL BE SERVED! 
their players weren't." 
The extra bit of energy may have allowed junior midfielder Michelle McCarthy to steal a William & Mary throw-in and score unassisted with just 25 seconds remaining in the sec­ond overtime, preventing the Irish from settling for a tie. 
"Going into William & Mary 
The Observer • SPORTS 
we had never given up a goal this season," said Petrucelli. "They scored in the first half, and I think we were a little shocked." 
"We found out we're not in­vincible, but the way we came back will be good for us the rest of the season. Now we know that we can." 
~l 
i 
I 
Thursday, September 15, 1994 






Belles expect Calvin College to be tough 
By JENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's is expecting a challenging match this evening against Calvin College. The Belles have only faced Calvin twice before, however the team has been looking forward to this game all season, according to coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. 
"Calvin ended with a strong record last year," Schroeder­Biek said. "And their team was relatively young, therefore we expect a tough game." 
Saint Mary's has been work­ing on their mental game as well as their physical game. Their main goal is to have a quicker offense, according to Schroeder-Biek; they have been working on new strategies all week. 
University of Notre Dame 
Intemational,Study Program 
In 




MC!!£geefity
Thursday, September 15, 1994 4:30p.m. -Room 118 DeBartolo 
Spring 1995 & 1995-96 Academic Year 
All are Welcome 
wilb CD·ROM,~ Mu/liplt Scan 15 Di!play,A/JI!IeDeslgn-ky/JotmlandIIIOU#. 
"We are trying to do anything we can to mix up Calvin's Offense," Schroeder-Biek ex­plained. 
"Last night's practice didn't go over very well," Schroeder­Biek added. " I think the girls might have been suffering from information overload." 
"At yesterday's practice we were slow and not communicating, something we will have to do in the game," captain Ann Lawrence said. "I think the pressures of school are starting to build up." 
Freshman starter Amy King is suffering from shoulder prob­lems and will possibly not be starting tonight. Freshman Kelly Meyer will be start as set­ter and Sara Stronzcek will be substituting her in the game. 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 15, 1994 
Not all throwback Rangers continue winning ways 
Associated Press The Rangers managed just one of the Stanley Cup cham­two goals on 16 shots against pion Rangers' 23 playoff games 

uniforms are equal 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

The NFL is calling them throwback uniforms. Many of the Pittsburgh Steelers would prefer to throw them away. 
They're among the most dis­tinctive of the old-style uni­forms that will commemorate the NFL's 75th anniversary, but they're not wearing well with the Steelers. 
The Steelers' descriptions of the 1933 replica uniforms they'll wear Sunday against the Indianapolis Colts range from "awful" to "ugly" to 'bad." 
Pro or con, Levon Kirkland? 
"Con," he said. "Con, con, con, con. They wouldn't look as bad if it wasn't for those Grey Poupon pants we'll wear. Maybe the guys were tougher back then, but we're a bunch of soft guys. And we don't like them." 
While many teams' uniforms -the Raiders and Colts, for ex­ample -haven't changed all that much, the Steelers' uni­forms have been altered signif-
Kinder 
continued from page 16 
Garnett. Garnett issued a chal­lenge about this game to Kinder when he was home over the summer. 
PITTSBURGH rookie goalie Patrick Lalime in last year, had two consecutive icantly since the franchise's Ed Olczyk had three goals the first half of the game, but goals in the third period. 
and an assist as the New York
founding as the Pirates by Art then scored five against an-
Rooney in 1933. Rangers rallied from a three-other rookie, Philippe Pittsburgh built a 3-0 lead on The '33 Pirates wore bright goal deficit and beat the DeRouville. two goals by Jaromir Jagr in yellow jerseys with a r? Fort Pittsburgh Penguins 7-4 in their the game's first 3:03 and 
Duquesne and Fort Pitt, the two exhibition opener Wednesday Olczyk, who played in just Martin Straka's goal at 11:32. 
m~~nn~~~arM~~oo-r.==m=·g=hl=.=============================9
ary forts -a logo that was on the official City of Pittsburgh shield in the 1930s. 
"They're awful," Eric Green said. "They're going to look funny." 
The players most dislike the mustard-colored pants, which were made of canvas in the 1930s. 
"Man, they're funny look­ing," cornerback Tim McKyer said. 
'Tm glad we've got to wear them only twice," Rod Woodson said. "They're ugly." 
Offensive tackle John Jackson is one of the uniforms' few pro­ponents. 
"I like them," he said. "You're always going to have your skeptics, but it's not like we're going to wear them every week of the season. I think they're neat. If you don't like them, take a chill. 
"Reggie said they might be able to shut us down, but I want to break him off for at least one score," Kinder joked. 
Holtz and the Irish hope Kinder's old buddies will pro­vide the perfect setting for a Notre Dame runaway. 


f $1-800-TALK-USA $ 
'J

America's Inexpensive way to call collect ~ TM more;save Mom & Dad, the more they have to s$you ~
C 
t 

FACULTY NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S SINGLES GROUP 
Social gatherings of single faculty have been sponsored since 1992. Regular gatherings take place monthly, special events or outings occasionally. Come help us begin a new year and meet old and new colleagues. 

Saturday, September 17 4:30p.m. Fischer Graduate Community Center Inside-Outside for Good Weather or Bad Access to Large Screen TV for ND-MSU Game 
Burgers, dogs, soft drinks provided 
Bring a salad or dessert, if you wish. 
For further information call Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C. 1-8601 or JoAnne Bunnage 1-4617 
Co-sponsored by the Singles Group and Campus Ministry 
AowerDelive~7Days ~~~~~~~~~~A~t~~~u~~n~:~~~~~~~~~ 
-


P~~y -t~ ~i)tth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
(219) 277-1291 

51400 31 North 
1-800-328-0206

South Bend, IN 46637 
SOPHOMORES!!!! Get Involved! 
Apply for the position of JPW Sophomore Committee Chairperson!! 
Applications available· at LaFortune information desk September 12-16. Application deadline September 16!!! 






Undergraduate Schools 
Committee Volunteers 
If you wont to represent Notre Dame at your high school over fall or Christmas break, you must attend one training meeting, tonight is your lost chance. 
The meeting is tonight 


Thursday, September I 5 
begin_ning at 

8:30p.m. 

and will be held in Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Room Ill) 
Ifyou have any questions, please call one ofus: 
Jennifer Carrier  Luke Woods  
Undergraduate Admissions  Student Coordinator  
631-7505  634-1962  


page 13 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 15, 1994 
plenty of with 12 seniors. They especially understand the
Soccer Sanders chooses the 49ers
importance of these games. 
continued from page 16 
are very direct and opportunist. It's a tough away game against a team that doesn't lose much at home. 
"Yet, I believe we have the tal­ent to win anywhere." 
This ability to win anywhere comes from experience. Something that the Irish have 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, GREG 
lim 
E 



a Civ•l War battle durtng which a North Carolina brigade refused to retreat. It was as if they had tar on the1r heels. Ol 
c 
E 
'0 ~ 
w E 
rn 
c 
.., 
0 
Ol 
'w
.., 
rn
.., 
m Qi 
w I 
c 
~ 
w 
.c 
t­
rn 
"' 
m w E 
·~ 
~· 
w 
Qi 
w 
I 
L 
~ 
w 
.c
.., 
'0 
_gJ 
u 
w 
.0 
0
.., 
w 
E 
0 
iii 1W:o= form~
u Ul 
E 
w
.., 
u 
jj 
w
:c
.., 
rn rn 


rn ofstudent l.ll
~ 
0 
L 
rn 
u 
.c 
f 
0 
0 
;; 
z 4.99 
ffi Hat, one size fits all.
L 
w 
> 
E 
:::J '0 
iJ 
0 I 
0 
..0 ~ 7.99 
! 
.. 
m
.r:
.. 
m E 
m 
c 
~ 
u 
c 
G I
.., 
L I 
I ,;. 
L G 'D 
c 
m 
01 
.!! 
G 
L G 
c 
E 
G 
I ®
" 
0 
.r: 
u
• a TARGEt
I 
E EXPECT MORE. PAY LESS~ 
a 
m•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
"The seniors know that the conference means an automatic bid," Oates explained. "This is our last chance at the NCAA championship." 
Good news for the Irish is that junior forward Bill Lanza is expected to see some action tonight after sitting out with a knee injury. 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
Asssociared Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. 

With the baseball season gone, Deion Sanders wasted no time closing in on a new job with the San Francisco 49ers. 
A free-agent cornerback and Cincinnati Reds outfielder, Sanders shopped his services to several NFL teams while idled by the monthlong baseball play­ers strike. On Wednesday, the owners called off the season. 
With his baseball job gone, at least for this season, Sanders was ready to turn his attention to football, said his agent, Eugene Parker. 
Sanders told an Atlanta televi­sion station he had decided against rejoining the Atlanta Falcons and intended to sign with the 49ers. 
Club president Carmen Policy and Parker negotiated over the telephone for hours and Policy said Wednesday night they had reached a "meeting of the minds" on a one-year contract. 
He declined to provide details of the pact, which still must be approved by Sanders and re­viewed by the NFL Management Council to ensure it complies with salary-cap rules. 
"I think finally at the end of the day what we've submitted should be approved," Policy said. "Will Deion accept it? That's what it boils down to. 
"I have a very, very good feel­ing about this but it's not done till it's done. I think they know we've gone as far as we can go (financially). We've done all we could do in the framework of a one-year deal." 
Sanders rejected a more lucra­tive offer from the Miami Dolphins, who have been weak­ened by injuries in the sec­ondary. 
''I'm disappointed," coach Don Shula said. "I thought we were in it and had a good chance. We pursued it hard these last few days." 
In the 49ers' bid to sign 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 

fl' '9:00 P....M OUTPOST SPORTS 
(3602 N. GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA, IN 259-1000 
.., vn .., l&n'-'&..uuu-.u \;oiV.tu..U:,J '· 

i.osTERS OF.NO M:oa,E THAN 10· r !s TEAM DOUB~E ELIMINATION TEAMS MUsT REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS FIRST 8 TEAMS:TO1ttGlSTER WILL PLAY 
1. . . $10.00ENTRYFEE 
i $5.00 PER PERSO~ FOR INSURANCE TRANSPORTATION WILL NOT BE PROVIDED
'. 

ALL EQUIPMENT Wll..L BE PROVIDED BY ROLLERBLADE 
'FOUR WEDDINGS' JUST SAY 'I DO!'" 
"A MOVIE TO JU~lP UP AND DOWN AND CHEER FOR!" 
<.:<of~...... ,,,~ T!ijl\\ !'t!W 

"I.MME~SELY 
ENTERTAINING! 
The perled Sprill~ feel-~dtr!' Be prepued to exit 1miling; 
K"'.:n S..ll\, THI: ~~~1.1..\~ Hllk~l~l; ~~:0.0.~ 

"SPRING FEVER ON FILM!" 
• '.td)' , • .,.,,., lll;"lll<l!T F~ll: I'Mb.'il' 
-

~ 
Sanders, they freed $1.3 million under the salary cap by restructuring the contracts of linebackers Gary Plummer and Ken Norton and safety Tim McDonald. 
Policy said Sanders, a three­time Pro Bowler in five seasons with the Falcons, flew to the San Francisco Bay area on Wednesday to await the out­come of the negotiations. 
"There are some very sensi­tive negotiations going on," Policy said. "We're talking numbers. We're talking incen­tives. We're talking a variety of things. We're even talking phi~ losophy." 
Just two weeks ago, Policy said the 49ers couldn't afford Sanders because of salary-cap constraints. Now he is opti­mistic but wary of competing offers. 
"We're not in there alone," 
Policy said. "If I was to stand 
here and tell you it was done, I 
would be really acting fool­
hardy. I don't know what's go­
ing .on behind the scenes. 


------------, 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 15, 1994 

Belles expect more offense tonight 
By BECKY MAYERNIK play a lot of different positions," stated freshman Eileen Sports Writer Newell. 

~ob8EtM!rJCvnU1ia Exconda 
Freshman Eileen Newell is expected to be an important member of the Belles offense. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
In-Line Hockey Tournament­This one day, double elimina­tion tournament will take place on Sunday, September 18 at Outpost Sports (3602 N. Grape Rd., Mishawaka, IN 259-1000). It will be an 8 team, 5 on 5 (including goalie) tournament. All equipment will be provided by Rollerblade, bur participants are encouraged to provide their own skates. The fee is $10 per team and you must register in advance at RecSports. There will also be a $5 insurance fee and transportation will not be provided. For more informa­tion call RecSports at 1-6100. Aerobic Classes -Classes have started for Challenge U Fitness. Make sure to bring your green exerciser ID card with you. Some classes are still open. Call the RecSports office to find out more information. Special Olympics -Anyone in­terested in volunteering for the Special Olympics in swimming should contact Coach Dennis Stark at 1-5983. Rowing Club -The Rowing Club needs a coach. Please call Chris at 273-3975. Novice Rowers -Practice be­
13TH ANNUAL

gi~vw 
COLORADO 
...... 
K 

kinko•s® 
the copy center 
2202-C South Bend Ave. 
-
Greenwood Plaza 271-0398 

I.­
109 E. Jefferson Jefferson Centre 234-8709 
5:45. Meet at the main circle and bring insurance forms. It's not too late to join. Just show up Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. Men's Volleyball -Tryouts will be held September 18 from 2pm to 5pm and September 19 from 7pm to lOpm in the pit of the JACC. Attendance is re­quired for both dates. For more information, call Shawn (x1989) or Matt (234-8958). Field Hockey -An informa­tional meeting will be held on Thursday, September 15, at 9pm in PW's party room. Anyone with questions should call Christy (x2771) or Tanya (x2984). Women's Lacrosse -Practice starts today at 9pm in Loftus. 




fi Memorial Mass 
will be celebrated for 

filexandru. cf3urnbacea 
$riday, September 16, 5:15p.m. cBasilica ofthe Sacredjfeart $r. edward Malloy, C.S.C, Presider and homilist friends andfellow students are welcome. 
Goooooaaaalll-oriented. 
In addition to the injuries Saint Mary's is still dealing 

The 2-0 Saint Mary's soccer team hopes to continue 
with, the weather should be a factor in today's game,

their winning ways when they face Calvin College in a 
stated Matelski. 

home game this afternoon at 4 p.m. The Belles hope to 
"We've been practicing each day in this extremely 

see a lot of support at today's game. 
hot weather, so it could make a difference in our perfor­

"Calvin College is very fast and this will be a much 
mance." 

more difficult game us," sophomore Shari Matelski 
The Belles will be facing their toughest opponent of 
said. 
the young season, and are very confident about the 

"Tomorrow's game will be a true test for us," sopho­
game. 

more Lisa Nichols said. "So far our competition has not 
"We just need to pull together as a team tomorrow,"

been too strong and we haven't played any tough 
Nichols said. 
teams." 

The Belles have been concentrating on scor­ing and corner kicks in practice, and plan on making Calvin's defense work hard, according to Matelski. 
There are still bad vibes between the two teams from last year's game, so this should be an intense game, stated Nichols. 
"One thing that we have on our side is that everyone on the team is very versatile and can 
Bring any extra sticks. Family Swim Friday, September 16, 7-9 p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Relay races, penny dives and basketbell. Open to all Notre Dame Faculty/ Staff and their families. For more info. call RecSports at 1­6100. Horse Riding Lessons ­Informational meeting Thursday, eptember 22, 7 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center classroom. For more info. call RecSports at 1-6100. "Challenge U" Aerobics -Some classes remain open. There is very limited space in Step class­es left. Please call or walk into the RecSports office for infor­mation about sign-up. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
WANT TO IMPRESS YOUR NEXT SYR DATE, LEARN SOME COOL DANCES, AND HAVE FUN AT THE SAME TIME? 

JOIN THE BALLROOM DANCE CLUB! 
Classes start Thursday at Stepan Center. Just 
pick the class that's more appropriate for you! 
7..8:30 SYR Essentials: For people interested in learning the basics of the waltz, fox trot, cha,cha, and the swing. 
8:30.. 10 Strictly Ballroom: Dance like your favorite movie stars! Learn choreographed routines using the viennese waltz, bolero, samba, and tango. 
Questions? Call Joe Cavataio at 4--1763. 



At Kinko's, our staff of professionals and our state-of-the-art equipment can help you reach your production gooooaaaallls. At Notre Dame, see the soccer team continue its barrage of goooaaaallll scoring as it plays host to Xavier at 1p.m. on Sunday. 
r 1 :00 suNDAY! 
NOTRE DAME 
vs. 



XAVIER 

Alumni Field -Behind the J.A.C.C. ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 


--------------·--~ 
--~~------------, 
Thursday, September 15, 1994 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
-, 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
~9­

f.\e-'1 Go~~''-GuEss WHo r: Jvsr 
SI\W···· 
\ 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 9:>1<\8\t<\t..S I K\:.L Ll'f-1:. OJR llIT 1.\(l.~ GCl'TT't.N TDO CC'lt<\l'lI­C(l."\t.\>... 1\\1>.1 WtW A<J.\J\o\VVi\'E~ 
MW£ 1\.\{l.N 'tlt. RtN..l'i NEED •. 1\1/>..i WE'VE />-G:£~D ICl.) ..-.~'{ ~M~DS ... 
" 

"Don't eat the flippers, Zeke, or they'll know we're tourists." 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
Inh'"""'~itv will be speaking tonight at 8 p.m. rgh Center fo 
--·--Night will focus on techniques and career opportunities for -~··~··-students. It will be presented by 
1se11taltiye~~•-Alliance for Catholic Education, Bank, and Sears Merchandise Group. all, Jnltjors and "':'Ul ~~ place tonight from 7 to 
the Hesburgh Ubrl'.l'ryAuditorium. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Sign maker 51 Skipper's 27 "Damn command
1 Cleo player Yankees" team 53 Jazz's­4 Nods 30 "--well ..." Winding1 Healing waters 32 Pope's "An-55 Oxlike critter 
1Q Bottpw~-letter 
SOUTH DINING HAL{.
011 Ma1 !" -~--51rSaa10ra ­
abbr.­
33 Immensely singer?

13 Greek Marinated Flank
34 Man's name •61 First name innickname meaning "red" tyranny14 "Barney Miller" 
Veal Pannesan

35 "Le Coq --" •62 More sluggish regular Jack 
Stir-Fry Brocoli 

36 Amenable •63 By way of Schisgal play 37 Big name in top •64 Literary 16Vietnam's 
151964 Murray 
40 monogram My-40 Backbiter? •65 Long spell 
17 Place for 43 Govt. help for •66 Exactly right coming to mom-and-pop •67 Charley grips? stores Weaver's 
18 Prom flowers 45 "Alice" role Mt.­20 Toast word 46 Radar reception 168 Author Harper 21 Oven for a 47 Come about 169 ---Cat 
singer? 49 "Runaround (arctic vehicle) 23 Peking finale Sue" singer '10 Kidnapping 
Have 

24 Mr. Buchwald 50 Get in return grp., 1974 '11 Bandleader ------------Brown ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

something to 

DOWN 
1 Religious leader 10 Grain for a 41 Half a dance 54 It comes 
2 It's south of playwright? 42 Keystone figure straight from Georgia 11 Revulsion the heart 
44 Plowed lands 
12 Like apple juice 

say?

3 Tubular pasta 47 #1 hitforthe 57 Puppies' barks 
19 Forte for an

4Award for Chi-Lites, 1972 58 Baudelaire's
actress?

"Wings" 48 Wicked one "The Flowers 
22 Flavor sensor 
of-"

5 Actress friend of 26Arcane 49 Family name of Prince Andrew 27 Annoyer F.D.R.'s mother 59 Orderly 6 Take up like a 28 Menu phrase 52 Squash 60 Senate votes 


Use Observer 
29 Voyage for an actor?
sponge 

7 Quenches 
31 Mauna-Get answers to any three clues
a Washington 
38 "Xanadu" rock 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
waterway 

classifieds.

grp. 5656 (75¢ each minute).
9 Staved off 39 Rare aquatic 
Come and in~orporate (\ VSr some culture Into ) 1 \J /

0 

your lives. All are "/"
*',

invited to enjoy or ~ • L-~-~ 
Come take a riveting look at an issue that is 
-
participate. The ( 
plaguing America: domestic violence. 
Acoustic Cafe isn't 
Showing Thursday at LaFortune's 
WASHINGTON HALL
just for musicians 
Montgomery Theatre from 8 pm 
15 SEPTEMBER 1994 
-
anymore! (~~.f ~.,r to 10:30pm. 
7:30 PM Free Admission! 
Come one, come all and down in front!
'l'it 7ri'S.bt';tJi1!:7'U1t.S ~.tS 
Reception to follow in
$1 ADMISSION
&~ ~4 '1t'lf1'n~Q1/e 9-12 
LaFortune. 






The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

, 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Spons Writer 
During the school year, every Notre Dame student has the urge to travel home and see old high school friends. This Saturday, Notre Dame sophomore tailback Randy Kinder will get the chance to reminisce when the Irish travel to East Lansing to play Michigan State. 
Kinder. a high school All­American and the player of the year in Michigan two years ago, hasn't felt any extra nerves going home to his old stomping grounds. 
"It hasn't really hit me yet, but I'm sure I'll start to feel it a little more on Friday night," Kinder explained. 
"It will be my only chance to play there," he continued. "I can't wait to play on the new turf in the stadium. It will be real exciting." 
Entering last season's Michigan State game in South Bend, Kinder had only carried seven times for 26 yards. However. he exploded for 94 yards on 12 carries against 
his hometown team. 
This year, Kinder has gained 41 yards on nine carries. Although Notre Dame has rushed for 163 yards per game thus far, Kinder feels 
I • 
SPORTS 
Thursday, September 15, 1994 

Road to NCAA starts tonight 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Sports Writer 
the Irish have the potential for better things. "We have to get our running 
game going, because we haven't played Notre Dame football," commented Kinder. "Last year was the same situation until the Michigan State game when we got it going on the ground." 
An All-American sprinter in track, Kinder uses his break­away speed and physical tools to punish opposing tacklers. Kinder's talents in the back­field have meshed well with senior Lee Becton's shifty moves and Ray Zellars' block­ing. 
Kinder expects to see some more playing time this week­end to spice up the running game and put the Irish on the right track. 
''I'm hoping for the same type of performance as last year, except I want better stats and I would like to get into the end zone," added Kinder. 
"Randy Kinder will definitely play more," Holtz explained. "He's a great competitor and a very physical football play­er." 
One of his old high school buddies is Michigan State sophomore linebacker Reggie 
see KINDER I page 12 

While the Notre Dame men's soccer team has already faced three opponents this season, the seniors know that it is today that the season actually begins. 
Tonight the (2-1) Irish begin their Midwestern Collegiate Conference schedule as they travel to Northern Illinois. 
While the games against Penn State, Indiana, UCLA and vari­ous other ranked programs are important, the Irish understand that it is through the confer­ence that they will make it to the NCAA tournament. 
"We go into these games full steam," senior Tim Oates said. "These are not filler games be­tween Penn State, Indiana and UCLA. These are real tough games between teams wanting to get to the NCAA tourna­ment." 
"This is a big game," co-cap­tain Chris Dean adds. "It would be easy to look by them, but it is the first conference game. It is important to start on the right foot." 
"The conference games are the most important," coach Mike Berticelli agrees. "For national recognition and rank­ing the other games are impor-
New program key to victories 
ByRIANAKEY Associate Spons Editor 

The players don't really want to be here right now. They have just finished practicing for almost two hours. It is cold. It is windy. And it starts to rain. 
But they line up anyway. They stand and wait, ducking their heads to keep the rain from their faces. Coach Petrucelli gives the signal and 
b:S~...MJJ!The!!!!!!~li;;;;;~ Kevin Adkisson and the rest of the seniors enter their final conference season, and their only chance for another shot at the NCAAs, tonight. 
tant, but the conference games are a direct route to the NCAA tournament. UCLA and the others are for experience for when we reach the playoffs." 
"If you don't make it to the (NCAA) tournament, it doesn't matter who you played for ex­perience," he adds. 
The Huskies do not appear to be a push-over as they enter this match with a 2 -1 record, including a 1-1 conference 
they run. 
"C'mon Irish!" they huff through gritted teeth. "Let's go, Irish!" 
And when they finish they walk back, hands on their heads, to do it again. And again. And again. 
And that's why they win. 
"We have made some big changes," said Irish women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli about his 1994 squad. 


Captian Tiffany Thompson leads the well-conditioned Irish women's soccer team against Michigan State tonight. 
mark. Their only loss came against Butler, a team that the Irish were 1-1 against last year. Their top point leaders are 
starting  forward  Nathan  
Mitchell,  and  reserves  Ed  
Walenga  and  Tim  Prerost.  

Goalkeeper Brad Nordeng is coming off a shutout against Illinois-Chicago. 
"They are very difficult to play at home," Berticelli said. "They 
see SOCCER I page 13 
At first, you wonder why. His 1993 team, at 19-3-0, posted the best mark in school history while qualifying for the NCAA tournament. Though there may have been very little to change, Petrucelli has begun to do some things differently this season-and he has already seen his changes pay off. 
"We've changed our condi­tioning a lot," said Petrucelli. "The strength and conditioning coach has had us doing a lot of aerobic workouts, and that has made a difference." 
The most visible difference is that Notre Dame is 4-0 instead of 3-1. After a tough match last Friday against no. 7 George Mason, the Irish traveled Sunday to face no. 10 William & Mary. where they escaped with a 4-3 overtime win. 
"William & Mary had not played a game all week," said Petrucelli. "They were fresh and we were beat up." 
The Irish trailed three differ­ent times in the match, but were always able to rally. 
"We had to come back more than once, but our players re­fused to lose," said Petrucelli. 
But while mental toughness was certainly important for the Irish, their physical condition 
see IRISH I page 11 

-

of note... 
-
SAINT MARY'S SOCCER Belles prepare to use new offensive scheme 
Look for Sports Extra in this against Calvin College tonight. 

Friday's paper. 

See page 14 






