
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Jackson, Clinton paralleled 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE News Writer 
The presidencies of Andrew Jackson and Bill Clinton are similar because both men held office during an era of reform, according to Robert Remini, author, professor emeritus, and award-winning historian who lectured yesterday afternoon about "a changing America." 
Speaking about the presi­dency of Andrew Jackson, which he compared to the pres­idency of Bill Clinton, Remini said, "It happened. It's over. We can see it and judge it." In contrast and in reference to the changes that have come as a result of the Clinton administra­tion, "we don't know where it's going," he said. 
According to Remini, "We are who we are as Americans beginning in the Jacksonian period," meaning the 1820's, 30's, and 40's. Prior to the War of 1812, he said, Americans as­sociated themselves with Europe. 
"They were dependent upon international trade; they had no domestic, independent econ­omy," Remini said. 
Remini, who is a professor emeritus of history and re­search professor emeritus of humanities at the University of Illinois at Chicago, has written or edited 22 books, 15 of which are about Andrew Jackson. Stating the difference between the nation prior to Jackson's presidency and during his time in office, Remini said the U.S. "was a small nation of petty states grouped together and what emerged was a transcon­tinental power." 
"It was a period of great growth and democracy," ac­cording to Remini, "when the people said 'we want to be part of the government as well'." 
Part of Remini's lecture in­cluded a comparison of the presidencies of Jackson and Clinton. 
According to Remini, both men were born when their nat­ural fathers were dead, and both were born to "strong" mothers. Jackson and Clinton rose from a "deprived position to the highest office in the land." As presidential candi­dates, Remini said, "both had marriage problems," and they came to the presidency "with a determination to bring reform," noting that Jackson's campaign slogan was "reform, retrench­ment, economy." 
Among the differences be­tween Clinton and Jackson ac­cording to Remini are that Jackson had no formal educa­tion, while Clinton had a "rather extraordinary educa­tion." Jackson was held in high favor among the people, Remini said, while Clinton "at this moment is very much down in the polls." 
Speaking about the elections of both men to office, Remini said that "the American people can disregard things that can normally kill a candidate." According to Remini, Jackson's wife, Rachel was charged with being a bigamist, and this was overlooked by the people who voted Jackson into office. When he gave a lecture in the White House during the presi­dency of George Bush, Remini 


The Observe 

Givina a true aift 
A Saint ~ary's studentdonates blood at Haggar Hall. 
said that Bush commented on his own belief that the American people elected a "draft doqger and a womaniz­er," rather than himself, "a family man with a military record." 
Remini said that he had met Clinton and that he was invited along with a select number of people to be a part of Clinton's inauguration, which was to re­semble the inauguration of Jackson. 
According to Remini, "I gave him one of my books, and I don't think he read it very care­fully because he has made some of the same stupid mis­takes that Andrew Jackson made." 
One of Clinton's "mistakes," Remini said, was that he "made very bad appointments to of­fice." 
"You can't appoint your friends just to pay them off," he said, "especially when they don't know the Washington scene." 
Remini, who received his bachelor's degree from Fordham University and his doctorate from Columbia University, has been a member of the faculty of the University of Illinois at Chicago since 1965. Among his many honors, are the George Washington Medal of Honor from the Freedom Foundation, the 1989 Carl Sandburg Award, and the 1984 National Book Award for his three-volume biography of Jackson. 
Speaking about the future of the United States, Remini 
see REMINI I page 4 


Problems still plague South African leader 
By NICOLE NIELSEN News Writer 
Although South Africa has undergone much change since the late 1970's, the old white state is still in place and re­mains difficult to reform, ac­cording to Peter Walshe, pro­fessor in the department of government at Notre Dame in his lecture entitled "South Africa in Transition". 
In his lecture, Professor Walshe discussed the events in South Africa leading to the re­lease of Nelson Mandela, the problems the country faced in dealing with the formation of a new government, the problems Mandela is currently facing, and the future of South Africa. 
The first attempt at reform in South Africa was made in the late 1970's and into the 1980's, according to Walshe. This at­tempt included the desegrega­tion of public places, and the legalization of trade unions. 
"The cornerstone of the re­form attempt was the new con­stitution established in 1983." The constitution included the addition of two new chambers to the parliament, the colored parliament and the Indian par­liament. The two new cham­bers had relatively little power, because the old white parlia­ment still had the power to elect the president and pass legislation, according to Walshe. 
If the people of South Africa did not accept this constitution, they would have been subject to severe suppression, accord­ing to Walshe. "The attempt at reform failed, and South Africa was under a state of emergency until 1990, when Mandela was released." 
There were several reasons why Mandela was released and negotiations begun, according to Walshe. The first reason he gave was the resurgence of black protests. 
The emergence of the United Democratic Front also had an impact on Mandela's release, said Walshe. The group drew together hundreds of anti­apartheid groups to present a united resistance to apartheid. 
The economic sanctions im­posed by the United States and other western countries spurred the South African gov­ernment to begin negotiations with anti-apartheid groups, said Walshe. 
A 3% growth in the popula­tion also led to the release of Mandela, according to Walshe. The population growth was a "demographic time bomb" that would create unemployment, and thus, would cause a teenage political revolt, stated Walshe. 
"The regime could not handle the pressure, so it released Mandela, and turned to negotiations," he said. 
One result of the negotiations was the establishment of a transitional executive counsel to oversee elections, said Walshe. An electoral commit­tee was also established, and it 
see WALSH£ I page 4 

I
Forum 

1 
l

to address 

i

harassment 

l
BY THERESA ALEMAN ~ News Writer 

1 
Speakers will address issues ranging from discrimination to sexual violence in a forum tonight, "Notre Dame Speaks Out About Women" sponsored by the Women's Resource Center in an effort to raise awareness about the center. 
The Women's Resource Center is an on-campus educa­tion facility run by students for students. It offers a library of information on issues primarily concerning, but not limited to women. Issues include such problems as eating disorders, sexual harassment and breast cancer. 
When The Women's Resource Center opened last year, it sponsored the same kind of forum to introduce the center to the Notre Dame campus. Now in its second year, the center is holding the forum to offer an overview of the issues the cen­ter addresses and would like to address. 
Speakers will offer personal statements about women's problems or experiences. 
see WOMEN I page 4 page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, October 12, 1994 


• INSIDE COI..IJMN 


Don't let the 
Great Debate 

silence you 

Notre Dame prides itself-------­on the exploration of the mind, body and soul, or the complete education. For the most part, people think for themselves and act according to their convictions. Then why is it that when it comes to abortion, homosexuality, population control, the Suzy Fry celibacy of priests, or Viewpoint Editor women in the Church, most either embrace the Vatican's views or quietly sit back and let their differing ideas muster into confusion and disillusionment? 
Often when debate does occur, the seeming­ly "pious" appear to do their best to make the questioners feel guilty or inferior. Naturally, this debate becomes rare. What? The abor­tion debate rare at Notre Dame? 
Abortion as an issue is not sparse, but debate is. Debate means that two opposing or differing sides exchange ideas in the hopes of persuasion or awareness. Cowing others into silence does not mean you have won the debate. Notre Dame's Right to Life organiza­tion has made "educate yourself" its slogan. Educating yourself involves the expression of differing views to come to one's own conclu­sions. The attitude which Right to Life pro­jects is conducive to neither education nor debate. In fact, it is the most one-sided debate I have ever encountered. 
I address abortion only as an example because its role at Notre Dame serves more as a thought repressor than as a thought stimu­lator. The campus attitudes toward homo­sexuality and pre-marital sex could easily be substituted. Just because my beliefs do not completely agree with the Pope's, or your's, does not mean I am any less of a Catholic or any greater of a person. Disagreement with the Church does not equate to dissent. In fact, Dean Eileen Kolman, Louise Litzinger, Professor Georges Enderle, Professor Clark Power and Ann Power, all members of the Notre Dame family, signed an open letter to Pope John Paul II in the September 6 New York Times challenging the anti-contraception stance of Church. 
As Viewpoint Editor, I am fully aware of the path the Church controversy takes at Notre Dame. If a letter or column even brinks on difference with the Church, twenty others will combat it by quoting Humanae Vitae and declaring the individual morally inept and a poor Catholic or, worse yet, that he or she does not deserve to share in the Notre Dame experience. 
Living with and within an a 2,000 year old entity is not an easy proposition. However, it is more important for me to create my own identity according to my own intellectual con­victions and spiritual needs-which happen to be most satisfied by the Catholic Church­than to bow to someone else's ideals. You may call me a "cafeteria Catholic," picking and choosing at my will, but I can live with that. After all, Walt Whitman once wrote: "Do I contradict myself?Nery well then I contra­dict myself." 
Notre Dame is a university. It is a Catholic university. Debate should ooze from every seam and corner of this place. Just because the questions are harder, and even harder to answer and live by, does not mean we should 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Amy Schmidt  Mark Alexson  
Nancy Dunn  Production  
Sports  Kim Massman  
RianAkey  Kira Hutchinson  
Viewpoint  Accent  
Krista Nannery  Kym Kilbride  
Meaghan Smith  Mary Good  
Angeln Olsen  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 

Iraq contends reduction of troops near Kuwaiti border 
BY EILEEN ALT POWELL appears to be some evidence of
Iraqi troops remain In striking distance 
minimal (Iraqi troop) movement,
Associated Press  KUWAIT  The fir$1 wave (>f 80,000 Iraqi& slcppod  •  
Iraq insisted today that most of  JU01 f10I1II of the Kuwaiti boldet. Offldal!l  
its troops have pulled back from the Kuwaiti border, but the United  claimed Monday the lorcQ would move north to Basra. But dub6ous  
States and Britain said they still perceived a threat to Kuwait and  u.s. olftda1B ate COf1Hnulng to build up tf<>Op&.  
sent more troops and military hard­ 
ware to the volatile Persian Gulf.  
Baghdad reported today that it  
has finished withdrawing its elite  
Republican Guard and other army  
units from the Kuwaiti border,  
which Iraqi forces smashed through  
in their 1990 invasion of the emi­ 
rate.  
The Iraqi foreign minister said  
only two brigades  -an estimated  
8,000 men  -remained deployed  
north of the border but will be with­ 
drawn soon.  But Iraqi troops and  
military equipment were moving  
south toward the border as well as  
north, journalists in Iraq said.  
Iraq's claims of a troop pullback  
APfWrn, J. c..tallo 


have been called into question since Iraqi officials first made them Monday. Today, President Clinton said there was no sign a withdrawal was in progress and that Western deployments would continue. 
"There has been no change in the pattern of Iraqi activity from yesterday, so we will continue our deploy­ment," Clinton said. "We will simply stay on course and judge what we should do as events unfold." 
Later in the day, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Madeleine Albright, told reporters: "There 
Cancer test looks promising 
BALTIMORE 
A new cancer test costing $50 could help save lives by detecting the deadly disease in its earliest form, giving doctors more options in treating it, researchers said today. The test identifies repetitive genetic errors called clonal markers associated with certain types of cancer, researchers reported in today's issue of Proceedings of the National Academy of Science. By comparing DNA drawn from a patient's blood to that taken from urine, sputum, or feces, researchers are able to identify a vari­ety of cancers, said Dr. David Sidransky, the lead researcher on the test developed at Johns Hopkins University. The test is still in its experimental phase and must be validated through a series of larger trials, which could take years to complete, Sidransky said. The test could someday be used as an everyday screening for can­cer, Sidransky said, and could be developed to detect all kinds of cancer. 


Bush contributions assist son 
FORT LAUDERDALE 
To the irritation of Gov. Lawton Chiles, Republican challenger Jeb Bush can raise a million dollars just by holding a family reunion. And the money is pouring in just as the 41-year-old Miami developer and son of for­mer President Bush is hitting his stride in his campaign to oust the 64-year-old Chiles. "I think things are looking pretty good in this race," George Bush said Tuesday to Fort Lauderdale supporters of his son's bid for governor. "If you elect my son, you won't be disappointed." The former president and his wife, Barbara, helped raise an estimated $650,000 on their latest tour -falling short of the $1 million the elder Bush raised in one day last month after his son won the GOP primary. 

which we have to corroborate, from south to north. A little bit, but we can't tell yet." 
Kuwait's minister of information, in an interview this morning from Kuwait, said there was "no clear evidence" of an Iraqi troop with­drawal. 
"On the contrary; we are seeing a massing of troops," Sheik Saud Nasser al-Sabah told NBC. "And the troops are moving south rather than moving north." 
After Iraq moved thousands of troops to the south last week, Washington ordered the dispatch of tens of thousands of troops, and some of its most potent aircraft and ships, to Kuwait as a warning to Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein not to invade the emirate again. 
At the U.S. army staging area in Doha, 20 miles north of Kuwait 
City, U.S. troops prepared their M1A1 Abrams tanks and Bradley fighting vehicles for action. 
Maj. Don Janning, an army spokesman, said some 600 troops from the 24th Mechanized Infantry Division from Fort Stewart, Ga., had been flown to Kuwait since Monday and 3,200 more were en route. 
Six Royal Air Force Tornado fighter jets left Germany today for the demilitarized zone separating Iraq from Kuwait, the British military said. 

Film board bans 'Exit to Eden' 
SASKATCHEWAN 

Saskatchewan's film board has banned "Exit to Eden," a comedy addressing sadomasochism which stars Dan Akroyd, Dana Delany and Rosie O'Donnell. Three scenes in the film, including one depicting a young child being spanked by a nanny, convinced the Saskatchewan Film and Video Classification Board to ban the movie in the province. "Exit to Eden" was scheduled to open in 1,800 theatres across Canada and the United States on Friday. 

Second uterus produces twin 
SAN JOSE 

A woman with a second uterus delivered a healthy baby eight days after giving birth to the girl's twin from the other womb. Doctors had thought they would have to deliver Cynthia Silveira's second baby by Caesarean sec­tion because she was conceived in a "blind" uterus with a fallopian tube leading in but no opening for a baby to get out. But the wall separating the two wombs ruptured during contractions on Monday, allowing Hailey Silveira to slide out through the first uterus. "Nature wrote its own book," said Fernando Silveira, the relieved father. Although one in 50,000 women has a second uterus, cases of twin pregnancies in both uteri ending in vaginal birth are "astronomically rare, just way out there," said Good Samaritan Hospital spokeswoman Frankie Valent. 


• NATIONAl WEATHER 

52 New Orleans 76 61 43 New York 66 47 64 Philadelphia 69 46 77 Phoenix 89 66 46 

Wednesday, October 12, 1994 





Foot Stompili'
Thursday 

~r~~~nt~~ ~J: ~All 

Thursday, Oct. 13, 1994 

Ha[[ar Parlor 


Showdown from 7:00-9:00 p.m. 
~~am lli~ !!~~! ~f lli~ ~I' ~~DlliW~!l [~ill Almill~ mar! 
KEENAN HALL 
PRESENTS: 

Jason Hall 
A motivational speaker and former Student Body President of BYU, speaks on "The Road to Happiness." 
6:30pm to 7:30~m Thursday, October 13th, 1994 in the Keenan Kommons 
Refreshments will be served ..,; 

The Observer • NEWS page3 


Kidnapping suspends talks 
By ARIEH O'SULLNAN 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Israel suspended peace nego­tiations with the Palestinians and sealed off the Gaza Strip indefinitely Tuesday after Islamic militants kidnapped an Israeli soldier and threatened to kill him. 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin telephoned Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and held him responsible for the safe return of the soldier, Cpl. Nachshon Waxman, who was kidnapped by the fundamentalist Hamas group. 
Hamas threatened to kill Waxman unless Israel frees the group's leader and other jailed Muslim fundamentalists. 
It was the most serious threat to the bilateral peace process since Palestinians won limited automony in May and Israel withdrew from the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho. 
Arafat condemned the kid­napping but had previously refrained from confronting the fundamentalists, fearing that any attempt to disarm them or arrest their leaders would re­sult in a civil war. 

"Any harm to (the) soldier kidnapped by the Hamas or delay in the return of the sol­dier is likely to have (a) very detrimental effect on the future relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, and the continuation of the peace process," said a statement from Rabin's office. 
"This is the true test for the Palestinian Authority." 
Israel also suspended negoti­ations on Palestinian elections underway in Cairo, Egypt, Rabin's office said. Rabin sum­moned the head of the Israeli team, Maj. Gen. Dani Rothschild, to Jerusalem for consultations. 
The crisis erupted amid reports that both Rabin and Arafat were to receive the Nobel Peace Prize this week for the treaty they signed last year granting Palestinians self-rule. 
News of the kidnapping came two days after Hamas militants sprayed a busy cafe district in central Jerusalem with gunftre, killing two bystanders. Hamas warned that more attacks would follow. 
"Rabin is to receive the Nobel Peace Prize, but peace as we see it is very far away from us," said the kidnapped soldier's father, Yehuda Waxman. 
In Gaza, Arafat condemned the kidnapping and accused Hamas of provocation. He spoke to Waxman's parents and promised to work for the sol­dier's release, said his spokesman, Nabil Abuirdeineh. 
Israel radio reported that Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who is in the re­gion brokering peace between Israel and Syria, telephoned both Rabin and Arafat over the developments. 
Army radio said a special Israeli Cabinet session was scheduled for Wednesday. 
Waxman, 20, had been miss­ing since Sunday, when he trav­eled, carrying an M-16 assault rifle, from his home in Jerusalem toward his army base. 
A Hamas leaflet gave the Israeli government until 9 a.m. Friday to release the Muslim leaders. 

Ammendment unconstitutional 

APPY MONK 



JERRARD! 
FROM YOUR BOYS IN TH GH TTO! 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in DUBLIN, IRELAND JUNIOR YEAR ABROAD  
INFORMATION MEETING THURSDAY OCTOBER 13,1994 4:30P.M. 117 DEBARTOLO  
Application Deadline December 1, 1994  

The measure, approved by Colorado voters in 1992, pro­hibited state and local govern­ments from passing laws pro­tecting homosexuals from dis­crimination. It never took effect after a lower court blocked it. Subsequent rulings have all gone against Amendment 2. 
"The right to participate equally in the political process is clearly affected by Amendment 2," Chief Justice Luis Rovira wrote for the court's majority. 
Amendment 2 bars homosex­uals "from having an effective voice in government affairs" because they are prohibited from seeking legislation that would protect them from dis­crimination, he wrote. 
The measure also would have canceled gay-rights ordinances in Aspen, Boulder and Denver. It provoked a nationwide boy­cott of Colorado organized by gay-rights groups. 
The suit was filed on behalf of six homosexual residents, the Boulder Valley School District, the city and county of Denver and the cities of Boulder and Aspen. 
"This ruling is a decisive affirmation of lesbian and gay rights, and a crushing blow to the radical right's efforts to curtail important constitutional protections," said Suzanne B. Goldberg, attorney at the gay rights group Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund. She is a co-counsel in the case. 
Attorney General Gale Norton said today's ruling would be appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. "We will argue the entire framework established by the Colorado Supreme Court is improper," Norton said. 
In its decision today, the state Supreme Court upheld a ruling by Denver District Judge Jeffrey Bayless, who said the state failed to show Amendment 2 was narrowly tailored to meet a compelling state interest. 
The justices rejected the state's argument that Amendment 2 constituted a valid exercise of state power under the U.S. Constitution. 
By CARL HILLIARD 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
The Colorado Supreme Court declared the state's anti­gay rights measure unconstitu­tional today, saying it bars ho­mosexuals from "having an effective voice in government affairs." 

The court ruled 6-1 that Amendment 2 denies ho­mosexuals equal protection un­der the U.S. Constitution. State officials vowed to appeal. 
page 4 

Re01ini 
continued from page 1 
asked." What is our role? Are we the policemen of the world?" He said he was not sure of Clinton's forcefulness because, according to Remini, "you can't do what Andrew Jackson did (in the mid 1800's) 

Wo01en 
continued from page 1 
"Last year only women spoke and that's unfortunate. This year, several men, as well as women will speak out about women's issues," said Erin Trahan, treasurer of the Women's Resource Center. 
A  representative  from  
Campus  Alliance  for  Rape  
Elimination  (CARE)  will  
address  the  forum.  Sex  

Offense Services (SOS,) an organization which assists peo­ple in gaining medical attention 
"There's something about the turn of the century," Remini said, "that can trigger the pas­sion people feel to do something that makes their lives worth while." According to Remini, although we are the "richest, most powerful nation," which "stands unchallenged in this world," we must do something for humanity. 
after mc1denfs of sexual vio­lence and in finding counseling after the crimes will also be represented. 
Student Advocates for Inclusive Ministry (SAIM) will also speak. SAIM is a campus group which voices opinions that women should be included in new and more influential ways in the Church including being ordained as priests. 
Ethnic minority student rep­resentatives, a female athlete. and a representative from the Center for Social Concerns will also address the forum. "Notre Dame Speaks Out About Women" is tonight at 7:30 in 101 DeBartolo. 
---1 

The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, October 12, 1994 
JOD securny was given io the heaiih condnwns lor blacks. police, military. and the civil and environmental problems as

Walshe 

service employees, Walshe result of toxic waste emittance, 
added. he stated. 
continued from page 1 

The Mandela government still faces many problems, said We can "expect stability for
was agreed that elections 

Walshe. Because the students this decade, but there could bewould take place in April of spent much of their school time serious problems in the 21st1994. 
protesting apartheid, much of century," said Walshe. 
A new constitution was estab­the work force is uneducated. "South Africa must mute the

lished that called for a two 

Some estimate the illiteracy class polarization that it has in­chamber parliament the House rate to be as high as 60%, ac­herited." The social move­of Assembly, made up of 400 cording to Walshe. ments must provide the pres­seats, and a Senate, having 90 The Mandela government sure for change, he said. 
must also confront problems "If there is an increase inprovince in South Africa. 
such as a 50% unemployment class tension. there will be anA Bill of Rights created, and rate, rapid urbanization, poor increase in ethnic tension." 
Doctors question drug ads 
BY LAURAN NEERGAARD and patient," said John said Jack Trout, a marketing Associated Press Montgomery of Parke Davis, consultant in Greenwich, Conn. which last week advertised its "They're beginning to feel the WASHINGTON new epilepsy drug Neurontin in docs ... don't have time to 
From Sports Illustrated to the several major newspapers. schmooze. So they feel a need subway, Americans are being And the ads do advise seeing to build an equity with the ulti­bombarded with ads for power­a doctor -after all, the drugs mate user." ful prescription medicines -a are available only by pre­commercial boom that has drug scription. Ads do work. Take Proscar, companies smiling but doctors But the American Medical which shrinks enlarged worried. Association says there's a fine prostates. Every year 4.5 mil­
"Pretty soon they'll be on line between educating and lion men over age 60 are diag­milk cartons and hot-air bal­misleading vulnerable patients. nosed with prostate en­loons," said Dr. William Jacott, "The ones I've seen are clear­largement, which causes uri­whose patients have demanded ly quite commercial and don't nary problems. Although many prescriptions by name even necessarily give the whole never need treatment, they're before he diagnosed a disease. story." said J acott, an AMA reluctant to discuss symptoms. 
Suffering epileptic seizures? trustee and family physician at So Merck is blanketing maga­Fighting high cholesterol? the University of Minnesota. zines with ads aimed at men Afraid your prostate is "Then ... (patients) come in and who wonder why they "go to enlarged? put the pressure on their physi­the bathroom more than ever 
The questions jump off the cians to prescribe that prod­now," and some 300,000 have pages of newspapers and mag­uct." responded. azines. The allergy reliever Drug companies have always Claritin even advertises in New aggressively advertised over­Like other companies, Merck 
York subway cars and the hair­the-counter medicines. won't say what it spends adver­grower Rogaine is all over TV. But until recently, they mar­tising Proscar. which earns 
Drug companies say their keted more powerful pre­over $100 million a year. multimillion-dollar ads make scription drugs just to physi­But a full-page ad in a nation­Americans better advocates for cians. Salesmen dropped off al magazine can cost $115,000, 
their own health. free samples, and ads full of so campaigns add up fast, said "The decision to prescribe a complicated medical data dom­advertising expert Patricia particular medication is a inated scholarly journals. Stout of the University of Texas shared decision between doctor "That era is slowly fading," at Austin. 



~®~~~ QI®1fi1fi1!J&i1!J 
presents its 

IOBth Annual 7alent Show and Bachelor Raffle 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 14TH following the Pep Rally in front of Sorin 
win an evening out with one ofNotre Dame's finest
* a Screaming Offer

* Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C. 
* Professor T.V. Morris 

Raffle tickets on sale in the dining halls Wednesday-Friday. The drawing !Willbe held Friday night during the Talent Show. See the posters for further details PLUS the names and pictures of all participants. 
,--~--~-~­
Wednesday, October 12, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Cutbacks needed to 'reinvent government' 
By JENNIFER DIXON 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

For Social Security, President Clinton's drive to streamline government means dramatic 
cuts in the agency's work force and the possi­bility of more busy signals, longer waits for service and fewer fraud investi­


gations. 
The Social Security Administration, according to documents obtained by The Associated Press, is planning to pare its payroll by nearly 5,000 employees over the next five years, with the deepest cuts oc­curring after the 1996 presi­dential elections. 
Agency officials say they must trim their work force as part of the White House's plan to "reinvent government" by eliminating 272,000 federal jobs. 
Commissioner Shirley Chater says the cuts will come from management and supervisory staff -not the field office em­ployees who work with the pub­lic -and that automation and streamlining will allow the agency to do more with less. 
"These initiatives will em­power front-line employees by providing them with the tools required to maintain, and in many cases, improve SSA's cus­tomer service despite con­tinually growing workloads for the agency," she said. 
But congressional officials say Social Security's plan actually undermines government be­cause the agency won't have enough staff to find abuses and recover the millions of dollars being paid to people on disabil­ity who have recovered or ob­tained their benefits fraudu­lently. 
And the agency's plan to speed up decisions on claims for disability benefits, the cen­terpiece of its streamlining, will take five years to implement. Court tests and the need for congressional approval could further delay reform. 
The General Accounting Office, meanwhile, is skeptical 



RUSH LIMBAUGH'S 
Reign of Error 

A lecture and discussion with media critic and author, 



Norman Solomon 
8:00p.m., Wednesday, October 12, 1994 Room 129 DeBartolo Hall 
F6RRIGN <JAR PARTS Is OON under new management and we are betfftr tlwJ ever/ Taka a look at all we've got to offer. 
II('Carry Full Une of Beck/Arnley Worldparts II('Have Hard-to-find 'N.O.S.' Parts II('Meet Specific Needs of Car Enthusiasts II('Supply Over Night Setvice on Non-stocked Parts 

about Social Security's automa­
tion effort. GAO, a congres­
sional watchdog agency, said 
the improvements hold no 
guarantee that employees will 
be able to process all future 
workloads and improve service 
to the public. 
According to the agency's blueprint, Social Security would lose 7 percent of its workers ­from 65,231 to 60,472 -be­tween now and 1999. 
Social Security's last round of cuts occurred in the 1980s, with disastrous results. The work force slipped from almost 80,000 workers to 62,703; tele­phone lines to local offices were disconnected; callers could not get through on its toll-free line; and the ill and injured began waiting months for their first disability check. 
Today, according to congres­sional testimony, many appli­cants for disability benefits must wait a year for a final de­cision on their cases, and some have died or gone on welfare. Callers to the agency still get frequent busy signals and few cases are checked for fraud. 
Rep. Andy Jacobs, D-lnd., said he does not believe Social Security can trim its staff again and still answer its phones, fight fraud, speed up decisions for disability benefits and im­pose new rules on drug addicts and alcoholics. 
Jacobs, chairman of the House Ways and Means sub­committee on Social Security, said it is "penny-wise and pound-stupid" to treat Social Security's administrative bud­get like the rest of government. The retirement system is fi­nanced through payroll taxes and runs a huge surplus that masks the size of the federal deficit. 
"Service is going to deterio­rate," says Warren Fretwell, executive vice president of the American Federation of Government Employees Local 3342, which represents field office workers in upstate and central New York. "We're stretched very thin now, and somewhere, it's got to give." 
Social Security's workload is expected to grow dramatically in the years ahead as the baby boom generation nears retire­ment and drains its financial reserves. Without change, the government says, Social Security will go broke by 2029. 

If you see news happening, call The Observer  

~~As You Wish" I rnports Sweaters, Clothing, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much More! Guatemala • Peru • Mexico • Nepal Thailand • India • Ecuador I ttcred iblekP.ricepuneWee 1uny. LaFortune ­Room 108 Oct. 10-15 (5at.) 10:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.  
Interested in attending Law School? Join us for a presentation on "WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW BEFORE APPLYING TO LAWSCHOOLS!" OCTOBER 12th, 1994 at 7:00p.m. in the LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM (Second Floor ofthe Notre Dame Law School) presented by: The Notre Dame Law Review and The Notre Dame Pre-Law Society  

Wednesday, October 12, 1994

Ppage 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

• 





ours ee 


• • • OBI 
• 

WIN ATRIP FOR TWO 
TONEWYORKFOR THE 1995 BIG EAST MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT! 
KICK OFF THE 1994 95 
• 
IRISH 
t,......;.~----BASKETBALL SEASON AT 
NIKE and CHAMPION PRODUCT GIVEAWAYS! 


MIDNIGHT! 

WIN A TRIP FOR TWO TO LOS ANGELES TO SEE THE IRISH PLAY UCLA! 
3-POINT AND FREE THROW CONTESTS 
LIVE MUSIC BY CAMPUS BAND "TRUE NORTH" THIS FRIDAY • 11 P.M. • JOYCE CENTER MAIN ARENA Call631·6095 for info. and shooting contest,registration 
~---------------------------------------------~-­
Wednesday, October 12,1994 The Observer • NEWS page? 
Parents fail to immunize kids 
By PAUL A. DRISCOLL adequate immunizations by 7 or 6 because they have to be Associated Press months, the study said. immunized to attend school. Even infants whose parents But specialists say it is impor­CHICAGO are insured, well-educated and tant to immunize earlier to pro­More than half the nation's well-to-do frequently are tect against spinal meningitis, babies fail to get all the shots behind on their shots. whooping cough and other ill­they need during the critical "Missed opportunity is the nesses that pose the greatest 
first seven months of life, and buzzword," said Dr. Russell risk during a child's first year. much of the blame may lie with Steele of the Louisiana State Specialists cite various rea­their doctors, researchers say University school of medicine sons for the failure to get chil­Eighty-two percent of white and a member of the American dren immunized, including a 
infants and 75 percent of black Academy of Pediatrics' commit­reluctance by many doctors to infants had an adequate num­tee on infectious diseases. give shots to infants who have ber of doctor visits during their The study was based on a minor illnesses. first seven months, but only 46 1988 analysis of infant care "That is a major educational percent of the whites and 34 conducted by the National problem," said Dr. Charles 
percent of the blacks were up Center for Health Statistics. But Haley, an epidemiologist with to date on their immunizations, there is no indication of any big the Dallas County, Texas, according to a study in improvements since then, said Health Department. Wednesday's issue of The the study's lead researcher, Dr. The American Academy of Journal of the American Henry D. Mustin of the Pediatrics recommends that Medical Association. University of Washington in infants get immunizations on 
Seattle. schedule even if they have such Overall, 59 percent of the Children catch up on their routine childhood illnesses as nation's babies did not have shots by the time they reach 5 ear infections or strep throat. 
.. The Central show ~ople how ••m·n•uot•n•t it iS,'f said Dmitry Rappaport, -_... _St · _ny Bank offi~ia1 who 
de bed the currency ._•.-_.exchange as "a·playground for A'bankers and politicians." ._ It took the ruble more than a 

im1'lilt"tAd ·~!'J11lQJ1'Tf~!q~ a;l}Jd q:tga" /_. year ....-from May 1993 to ­1994-to go from l, '" 2,000 against the d()llar, but 
·--·-·-Just three months t() sink to . 3,000. In the past two 
..u........... ..trading, the ruble has 
·more than 1,000 to the· 
. . The worst previous onoA•rt.ll.VI drop was on Sept. 23, 199 when the ruble lost 17.9 per­cent of its value, going from 
-• 1~102 to 1,299 to the dollar. 
The general air of economic chaos wasn't helped by a sud­den run on gasoline that came. paradoxically, just a day after 17 percent price bike. 
Ale:Kander Korsak, the vu''""'"l in charge of Moscow's gasoline supplies, said he couldn't explain the outburst of panic~ buying that forced drivers to wait in long lines. 

ND Speaks Out About 
Tonight, October 12 7:30p.m. 
101 DeBartolo 
All are invited! 

Refreshments following Sponsored by the Women's Resource Center 

-------~-------------~­





VIEWPOINT 
Don't court the public, defend it 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... Grorge Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan ControUer ..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoUege. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Eclitor, News Eclitor, Viewpoint Editar, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports EditOr, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
Wednesday, Ocotber 12, 1994 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: ··_ or Students ~ho W'~re m.a.ke It ·t(J caf!lptis early 
Tuesday m.Qrning tllay have · missed the -quickly aborted at­tempt by some of tP.e more en.: 
lightened members.of the Notre Dame family t<J acknowledg~ National-<:;f.\ming . Out Day. This aeknowtedg~ menttook tJ;te f()I'lll of-~·-num~;p. per Of me$$ag6S;pdttt~d-itl chalk on the I.Jnjversity side~ walks calling attention to the holiday and the exi~teQce of gay a11~t l~$bian ~otr~.Daqi~
students h and .·.· faculty~ Forturiately for the .minds and souls of our• easily influenced' community, the local thought 
Dear Editor: 
As the prospect of war with Iraq looms on the horizon again, "Monday-morning Arm-Chair Generals" are renewing their assertions that the 
U.S. should have "taken out" Saddam Hussein during the Persian Gulf War. In defense of President Bush, I would like to point out the fol­lowing: 
1) The United Nations authorization under which Desert Storm was fought only gave per­mission for military action in order to liberate Kuwait. Nowhere in that resolution did it give the UN blessing to assassinate the head-of-state of Iraq, a member of the UN. 
2) The death of Saddam Hussein would not have meant the end of Iraq's oppressive regime. The Ba'ath party would still be in control of Iraq, and Saddam's death wouldhave left a power vac­uum and made him a martyr. 
3) If the Allies had conquered Baghdad out­right and totally removed from existence any vestige of the Ba'ath party, then it would have resulted in an Allied occupation of Iraq for an 
DU4idli~S ilf 

Separate but equal. • 
• 
Dear Editor: 

In response to Erin Kish's article (Oct 8, 1994) concerning 'her right' to purchase Maya Angelou tickets: 
We, Saint Mary's seniors, read Kish's article with a great deal of irritation. We are annoyed that Kish thinks that Saint Mary's students have equal opportunities at Notre Dame. Additionally, we are confused as to why Kish thinks she was excluded from ticket eligibility. 
We may attend your football games, but our tickets cost $112, $28 more than Notre Dame students pay. But we don't mind. We understand we do not pay Notre Dame tuition, so we are not entitled to Notre Dame student rates. 
We may attend some of your concerts or other activities, but we also help contribute to the funds that bring these entertainers to campus. We pay a "Notre Dame Student Union Fee," which is included in Saint Mary's tuition. 
We just want to point out the fact that while we may enjoy some of the same Notre Dame activi­ties, we pay for them; and in most cases, more than Notre Dame students do. 
unspecified number of years as the country's government was rebuilt. Estimates for the size of such an occupation force were as high as one million soldiers. A Western occupation of Iraq would confirm for Arabs what Saddam had told them throughout the war: that the US was inter­ested in Kuwait only because it was interested in establishing new imperialist ties in that region. 
4) The assassination of political heads-of-state is outlawed in international treaties and in American law. If the US had killed Saddam Hussein, then we would have no moral ground on which to cry foul if Arab terrorists tried to assassinate the President of the United States. 
In the final analysis, no intelligent or moral case can be made for killing Saddam Hussein in the Persian Gulf War. The short-sighted, igno­rant, kneejerk reactions that the American pub­lic is so good at should not be taken seriously in deciding matters of foreign policy. 
ANDREW DEKEVER Senior Off-Campus 

We don't know why Kish thinks she did not have an opportunity to purchase tickets. After calling the Special Events office at Saint Mary's, we learned that over 200 tickets were allotted to the general public in early September. Even though O'Laughlin auditorium only holds 1,300 people, and Saint Mary's enrollment is 1,574, Saint Mary's still offered tickets to the outside community including Notre Dame students. And since Notre Dame students do not pay a Saint Mary's activity fee, they did not contribute to the funds that brought Ms. Angelou. 
We wonder, as Kish puts it, who is "losing sight of the 'share' portion of this relationship" when Kish only wants to give when given to, and always expects something in return. 
KATIE ClANCY ALISON METRO 
M.C. DAVENPORT KATIE CAPUTO 
Seniors Off-campus 


• DOONESBURY 
510-JOHN, YOU'!?& PROJ3A&Y WONlJl3RJNG-IAJHO IS THe ReA/.. MIOIAU-ROYJR.? IA/!3/..L, HE-'s A F/3/.l.AH /AIHO 
FE3US PA5S/ONATEJ..Y 7HAT &ll30TIV/3 OFRU5 AREFOR SAL&/ \. 
_\_I/ 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
I ll&ltVt /NTHATMI393A6£;! 

6000FOR Y{XJ,I 5UR!3!
IN FACT, IJURING MY HCVSE 

SAY, COUW tuH5f?£'5
CAMPAIGN I '3P&NT 180FOI< 

IHAV&MY MYtf!AU£T
EV&RY VOT&-I 60T~JUST TO 

80/3UCI<S 130Y! ~Yt
G!3T 7HATM693AG& OUT/ 

UPFRONT"' KJIJ.' OVER 
I H&R&!
~II 

''It's useless to hold a per­son to anything he says while he's in love, drunk, or running for office." 
-Shirley MacLaine 



ACCE,NT

Wednesday, October 12, 1994 page9 

•

ama1ca: An experience 

Special to The Observer 
When Kevyn Comstock began her senior year at Notre Dame studying Biology as part of her Pre-professional Studies de­gree, she had no idea that a year later she would be teaching biology in a place as far away and unfamiliar as Jamaica. It was not until February of her senior year that she happened across the application for the newly formed Notre Dame Volunteer Programme/Jamaica (NDVP/J) in the Center for Social concerns. And it wasn't until April that she accepted an offer for placement at the Alpha Academy, an all­girls, Catholic high school administered by the Sisters of Mercy and located in down­town Kingston, the capital of Jamaica. 
"I didn't think much about what a com­mitment this was when I was filling out the application, " says Comstock. "I sort of just dove in." 
Molly Penny joined the program in an even more roundabout fashion. Aimee Barnes, who is also now working in Kingston with the NDVP/J, asked Molly to complete the peer evaluation portion of the application. Molly then decided to apply herself. 
"Aimee came to me with this two days before the application was due," says Penny. "Somehow I managed to put my own together and get it in on time." 
The foursome was completed by Terri Castellucci, who read about the burgeoning organization in The Observer. All four vol­unteers graduated in May of 1994, and three months later found themselves in Kingston. Barnas along with Comstock, is teaching at the Alpha Academy, while Penny and Castellucci are teaching at St. George's College, an all-boys, Jesuit high school right around the corner from Alpha. Although they have only been in Jamaica for little more than a month, they have quickly discovered that a great portion of the island nation does not resemble its popular image. 
"When I told people I was coming here, they thought I was going to live the resort life on a beach somewhere," says Barnas, "But Kingston is far from a resort." 
"All we hear about in the States are the 
tourist attractions, " says Penny. "I wanted 
to see the other side of Jamaica." 
In this context Alpha and St. George's are bastions of hope for many of their students who live in the "rough" sections of the city. The academic reputations of these institu­tions are strong enough to attract students from the wealthier suburbs of Kingston and many do attend. However, these schools remain committed to providing eli­gible students from inner city Kingston with a good high school education. In Jamaica a place in high school is not guar­anteed. Sixth graders compete for spaces in high school through a national exam. High school begins at the seventh grade level. Every year the students sitting the exams outnumber the spaces available in high schools by over three times. In addi­tion many schools have difficulty finding qualified teachers, particularly in the sci­ences, computers and business. 
The NDVP/J was initiated by the Notre Dame Club of Jamaica in order to provide an opportunity for recent Notre Dame graduates to live and work in a developing country and to help provide these schools and their students with qualified and en­ergetic teachers. The club had been plan­ning the NDVP/J since September 1993, a major undertaking for a relatively young and small Alumni Club. 
The Notre Dame Club of Jamaica was founded in 1992 by Zein and Muna Issa, twin sisters who received their MBA's at Notre Dame in 1991. There are only twelve members in the club which means the four volunteers have increased the club's size by a third. Currently Paul Chang (Arch '75) serves as the club's President. Chang has been the driving force behind the NDVP/J. 
The program in Jamaica, along with the volunteer program in Puerto Rico, is one of the first of what Chang hopes will be many programs throughout the world. 
"We want to increase the number of stu­dents who live abroad to one-hundred per­cent," Chang said. "We think Notre Dame students can do more abroad if given the opportunity." 
It was this eagerness to make such efforts that motivated the Notre Dame Club of Jamaica to have its volunteer teachers in place within a year. In spite of the many hurdles, obstacles and contingencies involved in such an undertaking, they felt confident the program would be up and running for the fall of 1994. 
"We got a lot of help from both adminis­trations, " says Chang. "Most of the Alumni Club is Jesuit-educated either at George's or Campion (Kingston's other Jesuit school), and Sister Bernadette (former­Headmistress of Alpha) also studied at Notre Dame." 
"We [the alumni club] knew that starting this program would take a lot of work and there was a lot we had to learn about start­ing a volunteer program." says Damian Chin, BS '86 and Treasurer of the Club "We felt a great sense of accomplishment when the volunteers finally arrived." 
Now that the volunteers have arrived and 
begun to teach, confidence is running even 
higher. 
"They are all doing well," says Chin. "Despite of their heavy workloads and hav­ing to adjust to life in Kingston, not to men­tion their contributions in helping to man­age and run the program." 
All four volunteers have had to deal with 
different problems in the early part of the 
school year. The first and foremost difficul­
ty for Barnas has been teaching outside of 
her field. 
"I majored in communications, " she says with a slight laugh, " but I'm teaching reli­gion." 
Although she feels prepared to be a part of the Religious Education Department, she has discovered entirely unexpected prob­lems in the classroom. 

"Even though it's a Catholic school, most of the students aren't Catholic. The Catholic population throughout the island is tiny. Besides which, my textbooks were written in the States. There's very little in there that my students can recognize. " 
"Lack of resources is a big problem," says Comstock. 
Another problem the volunteers have all confronted is the lack of classroom disci­pline. Both Alpha and St. George's are addressing the problem of discipline throughout their school, and all four teach­ers have dived right into the sometimes painful growing process. 
"Many of my students are used to being ruled by the hand," says Barnas, "so physi­cal discipline is not seen as abuse. But that's not the way I want to handle things, so I have to be a little more creative. " 
Although these and many other difficul­ties exist, all four women believe there is room for a great deal of optimism. 
"The students definitely have potential and energy," says Castellucci. "It just needs to be channeled in some direction." 
Penny agrees. She sees many parallels between Notre Dame and both St. George's and Alpha. 
"Both schools have alumni who play a prominent role in Jamaican society," she says. "They also take a lot on interest in developing St. George's and Alpha. In spite of all the problems, these are two of the best schools on the island, and there's a lot of pride there." 
In addition to the high hopes for their students, the volunteers also have high hopes for themselves. Although the pro­gram offers the option of a single-year commitment, all four want to stay for a second year to establish themselves and es­tablish the program, especially for the next group of volunteers. 
"I think it would help the next group a lot if we are there when they get here," says Comstock. "I also think I'll be more com­mitted if I plan to stay for a second year." 
"Obviously, this is going to be a learning year," says Barnas. ''I'd like to have a chance to correct my mistakes " 
Although all four women have come ostensibly to teach, they feel they are learning a great deal as well. 
"This is all give and take, " says Barnas. 
"I want to learn about a different culture 
and how to respect people of that culture. " 
"I feel lucky to be here," says Castellucci, 
"I am grLteful." 

Finally, Penny, speaking for all future members of the Notre Dame Volunteer Program/ Jamaica, has one request for the friends and families they have left in the States. It is an item which they feel will allow them to become more comfortable in Jamaica, and it will also allow them to be more effective in their work. 
"Send mosquito repellent." 

An option 

to 

·explore 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
Assistant Au:ent Editor 
For those people ready to experience the side ofJamaica rising beyond the exotic beach resorts, applications and rec­ommendation forms for the NQtre Dame Volunteer Programme in Jamaica ate !<urrently ~vailable at the Center Foi' Social Concerns • 
."WE! look for flexible people who are open to learning about new cultures. and who have a.sens~ ofthe integrl).tion ~ffaitlrin •a Clu;~stiap. cowmu;, nity," said Mary Ann Roemer, 

4inll.tor.. of $enipr yplun~ progra.tns. 
.. e applica,tiQ;tl ptdooss be· n(}vv for. anyone inttlrest­~ac~g ~(}r ·(}~e oi' two sin Kingston, Jamaica, in A"Yifll$t of 1995. a.tiOii deadlin~ has sp~e*fi~d,'but·. Will ly be kept open until · Q'f. tll.e semester~ toRoemer.-..····.. ' tlff'foJ# 1994 Notre ra4u~~~s ]each. in , · However, ·as it g09$ i~ sec(}p_d.·.$~ar. approxk ly six volunteers will be en to help pioneer the
atn.... 
o~ enrollrii.entinto .• the atn; 68£,h. volu1lteer mdi~ llyr~.es $~,000 through 
... ···· fundralSing projects to MlP s(lbsidize the miscella· neous tlnauces of this newly 
lOPE!d program .,..;..., such as e fare and insurance. · 
J'll.e fundraismg ~ .not a re, quirement, but the program rf;llies heavily relies on outside cOntributions for its support untiJ, it really starts to flourish. 
"Generally, students cam· pa,igiJ. in their •home towns, parish communities, and dQ;tp;ts in an effort to raise mol}ey for the program," ·Roemer.saido 
9nce • stati.oned in Jamaica,each volunteer receives room ~~~ bo~rd, health insurance cQverage. 'rouncHrip plane f~~ and amonthly stipend of
1 
about $60 American dollars. 
Y?!~teers n1ay ~ven possiblyreceive school.loan defer.. ]U~ll.ts until, their year or two 
ot'serviCe is completed. 
T~? community of student volunteers in Jamaica work tog¢ther to prepare meals, maintain living conditions, 
budget fjna.ncial·affairs. to mention, this new fami· Q;l~teers also. serves as a oe of inspiration, sup· portfriendship for everyone 
·· hinted in the new cultural · · · unity in Jamaica. · lunteers tea,ch ~n many ¥1Wincludillg biology, 
ics, reli!Jlon .and math. v~--~ ./regardless or erienc(l in the related ..... $ of study; more impor· tautly, "We are looldng for hig.:.heartedpeople with a will­i:t:t~l}~$S to serve others who have n~t experienced as 1Da:t:tY equal. opportunities," 

page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 12, 1994 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
USED BOOKS & CLIFF'S NOTES Pandora's Books 233-2342 NO Ave & Howard M-Sa/1Q-6 Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store 
Downtown book wholesaler seeks warahouse workers Flexible hours & wkend work available 232-8500 X22 ask lor Bryan 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING by Angie. Special student rate: $1.25 per page. Resumes start at $9. Located one block west oiiUSB. Call 237-o967. 
Dude, get a job! Info on a career in Client Service with Leo Burnett. Thursday, Oct. 13, 7PM. University Club. All majors welcome. 

ILOST&FOUNDI 
LOST STUDENT 1.0. NEAR GATE 15 ON SAT. 10/1. REWARD. CALL 287-4546. THANK YOU. 
••••• $50 REWARD ....... 
For the RETURN of or information leading to the RETURN of two CO's: Pearl Jam "No F--in' Messiah" and Nirvana "All Acoustically". Please call272­4021. 
My name is Huan Pu Cui. I am a Citizen of China. I lost my passport. I declare that my passport will be invalid after October 8, 1994. 

WANTED 
***SPRING BREAK 95'*' 
America's #1 Spring Break 
Company! Cancun, Bahamas. 
Daytona & Panama! 11 0% Lowest 
Price Guarantee! Organize 15 
friends and TRAVEL FREEl Eam 
highest commissions! (800)32­
TRAVEL 
Want two good tickets to see James Taylor. Will trade tickets for any remaining football games. 273-1080 
$$$$ 
NEED BYU GAS! 
WILL PAY BIG$ 
CALL 1-8317 
$$$ 
Connie from SW Iowa needs a ride home for fall break. Call 3604 if you're headed west on 1-80. 
Two Students need a ride to the WASHINGTON D.C. AREA for Fall Break. Will PAY FOR GAS! call Monica@ 4-3196 
Help Wanted Individual students/organizations to promote Spring Break Trips. Earn high dollar commissions and free trips. Must be outgoing and creative. Call immediately 1-800-217-2021 
Campus Band needs Lead 
Guitarist. Guaranteed gigs. Call 
Pick 277-2375 
I NEED 2 BYU GAs CALL McKENNA 271-2956 WILL PAY WHAT IT TAKES 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ment available. No experience nec­essary. For more information call1­206-634-0468 ext. C55841 
TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK 
'95! LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA, 
CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE. 
BOOK EARLY AND SAVE$$$! 
ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL 
FREEl SUN SPLASH TOURSl­
800-426-7710 
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break 
Sailin_g Cruise! Free brochure 
1 (800)359-9808 
Where can I buy ABSOLUT STADI­UM shirt? Kate @2732 BABYSITTER-2 children 1-2 hall days per wk. Occasional evenings. $5.00 hr. 272-5029 

FOR RENT 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST. 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­773-2034 
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & BREAKFAST-Historic Home, quiet setting, 4 guest rooms. shared baths. 20 minutes to campus. 
616-695-6321. 
Fully furnished clean 2 bedroom 5 rooms total, 1 1/2 block south of St. Joe Med Center sale quiet neighborhood $450 plus deposit. Utilities, cable, air and trash included Private entrance call 233-8327 or see at 224 North St. Peter St. Ideal lor grad student or prof. References required 
Lodging for NO football games-near campus 233-8745 after 5:00pm 

FOR SALE 
Selling one-way plane ticket South Bend to Providence. Chris X1955. 
INDIGO GIRLS -INDIGO GIRLS "THE POWER OF TWO" T-shirts Includes: Notre Dame, IN; 10/5/94 Interested? Call4-3011 for info. 
486 Tenex multimedia tower com­puter & monitor. Loaded with many windows programs. $1400 OBO Laurie 291-4888 
Tired of Waiting in long computer lines? Buy your own IBM 486 SX, 4 MB Ram, 400 MB Hard drive, keyboard, mouse , and $$$of programs-lotus, excel, ward­perfect, quattro pro, harvard graph­ics. Call X0640 $900 or best offer. 


TICKETS 
WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU TICKETS. CALL 800-922-2327 JANET. 
I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS. 
272-6551 
Need BYU student TIX (or GA's) Will pay good money Call Dennis at (914) 294-6546 or 634-4012. 
FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL 
HOME GAMES. 272-7233. 
I NEED BYU GA'S 
CALL JEFF@ 277-8250 
I need 3 G.a>'s to B.Y.U. If u 
can help, call Ron at x1736 
I need one Air Force GA or student 
ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please 
call X3822. Thanks! 
HELP! I need 4 Navy tickets-stud. 
and GA. Call Brian at x.2034. 
NEED BYU TIX! 
2-4 GA's & 2 Stud. 
call LINDI 284-5151 
Desperately need 4 BYU GA's 
Call Megan at 4072 
PARENTS HATE YOU? 
SELL ME THEIR NAVY TIXII 
SERIOUS CASH!! 
CALL JERRY AT 3024 
I NEED 8 TICKETS TO BYU 
STUDENT OR GA'S CALL 
MEGHAN X4541 
Will trade two or more tickets for any remaining NO football game for two good james Taylor tickets. 273-1080. 
I NEED NAVY GA'S 
MARK X1640 Need 3 BYU GA's & 3NAVYGA's call4-2010 
SELL ME YOUR AIR FORCE TIXS CALL-BRENDAN AT 277-6315 
NEED 2 BYU GA'S. WILL PAY $$$$$$-call Brian @ X1739 
Please, sell me one ticket to FSUI Monica-X2995 
Sale: Studs. All Remaining Games Call Tom at 2042 
NEED 5 BYU GA'S -CALL Joe @ x2765 
NEED 2 -4 BYU GA'S OR STUD. TIX. CALL TONY. X4532 
I NEED 8 (YES, 8) BYU GA's CALL AMY X2652 
Rooms for rent. BYU & Navy games. Call 255-9005for more information. 
BLIND MAN DYING TO HEAR BYU GAME IN PERSON. WILL BUY STUD/GA BYU TIX OR TRADE FOR AF OR NAVY GAs. 216-721­8163 
NEED G.A. TIX TO NO VS BYU. CALL JOE @ 287-4561 BEFORE 
11P.M. 
STUDTIX­LAST 3 HOME GAMES CALL 271-1249 WITH OFFER 
WANTED 
Two GA Tickets to 
the BYU Game Call ASAP with your tickets! 4-2617 
Need 2-3 Airforce GAs. Leslie 273­9303 
I need 2 GAs for Navy. Please call Kristine at 4-3806. Thank you 
VERY MUCH! 
NEED 1 STUD. & 2 GA'S FOR AIR FORCE. CALL LOU @ 233-4008. 
I NEED A.F. G.A.'s 
Call Dave 634-1198 
I NEED 2 BYU G.A.'s II Will Trade Franklin, or Best Offer 
ED @ 271-8151 
MORMONS coming in from out of 
town -need BYU GA's fast... will pay big bucks ... please call Xl997 
HELP! I need 2 GA's for BYU, my parents are coming. call Katie 284­5132. 
Help! We need 2 BYU tickets­
student or GAs and 2 NAVY GAs. 
Please call Kathleen at 4-3917. 
Need 6 BYU GAs and 3 BYU Stud Tix Call Chad at X3368 
I have 2 Navy GA. I'm NOT 
SELLING, but WILL TRADE 
them for 2 BYU GA. 
Call Pam at 219-625-4144 
Siblings driving 14 hrs would love to watch the game from inside the StadiumII PLEASE SELL ME YOUR BYU GJi'S/STUD. TIXI Mindy @ 4570 
I NEED 2 BYU GA's 
Call Carolyn at 271-9669 
WANTED: 2 Air Force GA's 
4-2628 
NEED NAVY GAs-CALL TJ@ 
634-1290 
HELP! I I NEED 2 GA TICKETS 
FOR BYU AND NAVYII Call 
Monica at X4091. 
$$$$$Help! I need Air Force GAs. Please call Gina at 277-0740.$$$$$ 
please sell me your BYU Ga's! 
I need 2 or 3. call Erika x2775 Desperately need 1 (or 2) BYU GAs. $Big Bucks$. Call Gene 287-9134 

We need 6 BYU and 2 Navy GA's Call Jon or Brian X1620 
In need ol2 NAVY GA's. Please call Melissa @ 4929. 
Need GA's lor BYUI Call Jell at x2174 
I NEED 2 BYU GA's Call Clare X2556 

NEEDED: NAVY-2 G.A.'s 1st game for 'rents. Coming from the moon, NO football is only rea­son for life. Will pay big $$. Can beat other bids.Call277-9742 
Need 2 BYU GAs -Christi x4899 

***2 BYU student TIX. Call with an offer 634/4575*** 
Need 1 BYU stud; 2 BYU GA's call George @x1939 
NEEDED: 
2 BYU GA'S Will pay top dollarllll Call Brian at 272-2376 
For Sale: 2 BYU Ga's 30 Yard line Best Offer. x3438 

Desperately need 2-3 BYU GA's Please call Chris@ 1527 
I have 4 roundtrip plane tix to Orlando that leave on the Thursday before the FSU game. I'll sell them lor $200 or best offer. Call Trout at 271-1390. 
Urgent: Need 4 BYU GAs or stud Call Rick x1919 
I NEED NAVY GAs. CALL WENDY @ X4708 
Need 2 BYU GAs -call AB at 273-0862 
Need 2 BYU GAs -call ABat 273-0862 

NEED: 2 BYU GA's & 1 Married 
Std. Call JARED 288-8141 

SALE 2 NAVY GA'S LEAVE 
OFFER X3669 

SALE 4-6 STD TIX FOR ANY 
REMAINING GAME. 273-3166 
WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GAs FOR 
2 BYU TIX. Call Val #4-2597 
Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call 
Sue at 277-8995 

I NEED 1 GA for NAVY. VERY 
IMPORTANTI Brian 273-8553 
NY Alum needs 1-4 tickets for BYU game. Call 1-800-666-4949 ext. 220. Ask for Ann Hiens 
NEED 1 BYU Tick 
Stud orGA 
Please Call Darryl @4243 

Need BYU GA's. Call Erin @4015 
$$$$$$$$ 
Need Navy GA's 
Call Marc@ 233-4008 
$$$$$$$$$$ 

HELP$$$$1 I need 2 GAs & 1 stud 
ticket for BYU -parents & sis coming. For lots of $$$$$$, call 272-92031 
Need 2 BYU GA's.... Call Phil at 
x3520 

NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR 
GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM 
HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON 
SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME. 
-call Mike at 4-1177 

NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR 
GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM 
HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON 
SEE HIS 1ST ND GAME. 
-call Mike at 4-1177 NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME. -call Mike at 4-1177 

NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME. -call Mike at 4-1177 
* ' * HELP MEl I NEED SIX BYU STDT TIX FOR MY LONG-LOST BROTHERS! CALL BETH X4841 
PLEASE HELP! It's my parent's anniversary. and they've never been to a NO game. I need 2 BYU GAs. Call271-0226. 
NOv FSU. Have 13 tickets 34-40 yd line. Call407-365-0665 evenings. 
I need GA's or student tickets for BYU. Call Chris 271-1390 
Buy my remaining stud. tix. Dan 273-0855 
I need GA's lor BYU, Navy and AF. Please call if u can help ............ . Call Tony@ 4-3883 
I need 4 GA's for the Airforce Game. Call Ashley 284-4310. Thanks. 
I will be your best friend for a BYU GA or student ticket. (There's also money involved). Call Cara. 284­4310. 
Please! I need 1 BYU GAll Call Mary Beth at x4220 
I HAVE BYU STUD TIX 4 SALE MICHELE 284-5326 
For sale: 2 NAVY stud.tix call2946 
NEED 1 BYU GA Call Chris x3767 
I need 1 Navy or 1 Air Force GA Please Help. Tom 3253 
NEED BYU STUD -1862 
'''BYU or NAVY STUDENT
Tlx·················· 
... call Gretchen @ 284-5261 to 
•••••,...,.... make an offer ••**•******* 
I NEED 4 BYU G.A.'S CALL MIKE X4073 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S FOR MY 8 YRS. OLD BROTHER AND A FAMILY FRIEND. PLEASE HELP ME II call BRIAN @ 271-9081 
NEED 1 or 2 NAVY GA-willing to buy or trade for air force GA. call 
ann x4544 
1 BYU STUD. TICKET FOR SALE CONTACT MICHAEL AT X2040 
For Sale-1 student ticket for last 
3 home games, make me an offer 
X4522 -Kerry 
2 BYU GA's to sell call287-1449 
"* FOR SALE ... Four BYU GA's. Together on 15-yd line. Call Bill at 291-6216 
I need BYU tixl 
Sandy x4638 
nEEd 2 BYU 2 AF 1 NAVY &3 Any game Stu or GA Call Tom@-1410. 
Need 3 Stud Tix for BYU 
call Bill at 272-2376 
Need: GA's and Student Tix 
For Air Force. Will pay Big Bucks! 
Call Liz 273-2179. Thanks! 
NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR 
BYU GAME. 
CALL JOE AT 4-2712 


PERSONAL 
Hey Chuck Diesel and Doughnuts 
whats going on girls??? 
SEINFEST '941! 1ST ANNUAL SUB COMEDY TAL­ENT SHOW! WATCH FOR SIGNUPS FOR AUDITIONS AT DINING HALLS 10/11-1311 -YOU COULD BE THE NEXT JERRY SEINFELDII 
THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune Student Center now accepts VISA, MC, and MAC cards lor your copying needs. 
I need a ride to and from NJ for October break. I will share driving and expenses. Lara x2518 
Female Grad Students Need 1 more roommate-Oak Hill $300/mo. 273-6153 
DALLOWAY'S DALLOWAY'S LITTLE MILTON WED. 10/12@ 9:30PM DALLOWAY'S DALLOWAY'S 
To the Girl with Green Hat with Cue Ball 69 on it . You were in Library last Thursday evening. You have admirer. Respond in Observer. Your Admirer Chris 
Quality Copies, Quickly! !I 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
SUPPORT GROUP FOR RAPE SURVIVORS Open to Notre Dame & St Mary's Students; HELD ON CAMPUS; FREE; CONFIDENTIAL Sponsored by Sex Offense Services 234-0061 ext. 1308 
Established campus band with guaranteed gigs needs lead gui­tarist. Call Pick 277-2375 
To 254 Farley: 
It's 12:30 p.m. Do you know where your ladder is? If you ever want to see it again, come to Stonehenge tomorrow at 12:30. Each of you must be carrying a large, open umbrella if you ever want to climb in bed again. 
I need a ride to NJ for break. Will help w/ ALL expenses. -Elaine x2328. 
BLOOD DRIVE TODAY 
BAND BUILDING Give blood and save a life. Today, lOam to 5pm in the main rehearsal room. Many time slots still open. Walk-ins will also be taken. Quick. Easy. Great cookies. 
CALL BRAD MCPEEK FOR FURTHER INFORMATION REGARDING INBREEDING AND ULTIMATE MASCULINITY AND SATISFACTION 
MICHELLE POTTER­
READ THE ABOVE. I PUT IT IN THERE JUST FOR YOU. BY THE WAY, FOLKS, SHE'S STILL FISHIN' ... GIVE HER A RING. 
Clara-CALL HIMII!!!I 
Laney -I love yoooouuuuu and I'm not even drunk!! Do you miss Blue Butt?? Miss you bunches. Be good. 
Cheryl O'Brien throws razorblades. BEWAREIII 
Lisa is SWEET and all men want her. What a Queen. How's the NDIBDCDSMCDED anyway? 
Poooor Petey! How's Dolly? Bully? Call soon!! Miss ya! 
POOTER! 
Tuesday night Production rocks. 
Luuuuke. How could you eat the eggs??? 
I need a ride to IU (Bloomington) any weekend this semester. Will pay for gas!! Call Kira 284-4308 
He'a a nice guy but.. .. JUST KIDDINGIII 

See Sports Extra on Friday for the NDIBYU football preview. 

KICK OFF THE IRISH BASKETBALL SEASON THIS FRIDAY! Midnight Mania -11 pm -Joyce Center Main Arena 
ca/1631-6095 for info 
Wednesday, October I2, I994 The Observer • SPORTS page II 
•cm..lEGE fOOTBAll 




Paterno eyes first challenge 
MICHAEL A. GIARRUSSO  In each of the past two sea­ sive tackle Vin Stewart, who  
Associated Press  sons, Penn State has gone 5-0,  has an injured foot, is the only  
only to stumble in the sixth  player that will probably miss  
STATE COLLEGE, Pa.  game,  last  year  against  Saturday's game at Michigan.  
After weeks of blowouts against overmatched opponents, third­ranked Penn State is fired up the facing its first real chal­lenge, a Michigan team to which big games are old hat. None of the teams Penn  Michigan and in 1992 against Miami. Joe Paterno said Penn State players are itching to get into a competitive game with a lot at stake. Michigan (4-1, 2-0) is com­ Tailback Ki-Jana Carter will play despite dislocating his thumb against Temple. Carter will wear a soft splint that allows him to move his right thumb a. little. ''I'm sure they'll try to strip  
State (5-0, 2-0 Big Ten) has defeated by a combined score of 258-86 is ranked.  ing off a 40-20 win over Michigan State last Saturday, while the Nittany Lions had a  the ball from me, but I take pride in not fumbling," said Carter, who averages 8.3 yards  
Meanwhile, fifth-ranked Michigan has won tight games against No. 17 Notre Dam e and No. 24 Boston College, and lost to No. 4 Colorado by one point on a Hail Mary pass with no time left.  week off after a sloppy 48-21 · victory over Temple. Temple gained 385 yards against Penn State, and Rutgers gained 513 the week before against a banged up Nittany Lion defense ..  a carry. ''I'm starting to get used to the splint. I caught a few passes yesterday." Penn State leads the nation in scoring, averaging 51.6 per game. The Nittany Lions have won each game by at least  
"Everyone is hyped up for it," quarterback Kerry Collins said Tuesday. "This is the kind of game that could put us back among the top teams in the country, where I don't think we've been for quite a while. "In the past four or five years... every time we've had a big game we seem to go out and lay an egg."  "I hope that some of our defensive problems will get ironed out by getting people healthy," Paterno said. Although Paterno has com­plained about having off weeks, this one fell at a fortunate time, allowing several Penn State players to recover from nagging injuries. Paterno said starting defen­ three touchdowns and the Michigan game may be the first time starters are still playing in the fourth quarter. The Wolverines are better than they were last year when Michigan won 21-13 in State College, he said. "They do everything well. I don't think they have a weak­ness," Paterno said.  


Wacker waiting for offense and defense 
By PAM SCHMID Exactly one week earlier, Associated Press Wacker was lamenting his team's offensive ineptitude MINNEAPOLIS while praising his defense to the skies for holding Indiana
Some day, in the same running back Alex Smith -the
game, the Minnesota Gophers then-second-ranked rusher in
will make a strong showing on the nation -to just 22 yards.
both offense and defense. The Gophers lost that game 25­
For the sake of his sanity ­and perhaps his job -coach 14. Jim Wacker hopes that day Last week, Wacker opined 
comes soon. that if only the offense could "You've gotta have patience somehow pick itself up, the sometime. It can happen. I be­team would be in fine shape. lieve it's going to happen," Think again. 
Wacker said Tuesday, three At Purdue, Minnesota's of­
days after watching his team fense was close to stellar, in
roll up 616 yards of total the air and on the ground. Tim
offense only to lose 49-37 to Purdue. Schade, fresh from being "Thank goodness we finally anointed the "forever and ev­broke through on offense. The er" starting quarterback, went 28-of-42 for 354 yards and a
frustrating thing is consistency on both sides of the ball, and pair of touchdowns. that's driving me nuts. And Running back Chris Darkins 
ran for 234 yards and two
until we do that, we're not go­ing to win." more scores. But the defense went in the tank, allowing the 
Boilermakers to score on five of their last six possessions of the game. 
"That was a disaster area on Saturday. It seems like every week we wait for a different bomb to go off," Wacker said. 


Reflections on the Mission of a Catholic University 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. President Emeritus Univ. of Notre Dame 
Respondent: Prof. John Roos Government Dep.artment 
7:30 p.m. Wednesday, October 12th 

Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 

Discussion period to follow. 


.....----------------------------­
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, October 12, 1994 
-~----~--­

----
---~-­
--~---~ -~­
• SAINT MARY'S VOllEYBAll 




Belles stung by Hornets 

BY JENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Kalamazoo College (23-4) was surprised they shut out the Belles 15-1 in. the first game of yesterday's match, according to Kalamazoo's coach Jeanne Hess. Saint Mary's had beaten Calvin College in three games and lost to Hope College in five games, two of the Hornets' toughest competitors. 
"We knew it would be a long match," said Hess. " But, we happened to serve very well and play good defense in the first game." 
The Belles have shown to be slow starters, according to Saint Mary's coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. This is the third time the Belles have not been able to come together on the floor during the first game. 
The Belles came back strong and stung the Hornets in the second game, winning 15-10. 
In the third game, Saint Mary's consistently stayed two points behind Kalamazoo until the Hornets put on the pres­sure and increased their lead by seven points, beating the Belles 15-8. 
"I know we could have beat­en them, " said freshman Betsy Connolly. "We've seen tougher competition." 
The Hornets controlled the fourth game 15-7, taking the match 3-1. 
"It was a hard match," said Kalamazoo junior Kara 
..• 
The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 
Freshman Meg Kelly returns a serve against Kalamazoo last night. 

Holtz 
continued from page 16 
throws left something to be de­sired. 
"No matter how talented you are or how much awareness you possess, if you cannot be on the practice field on a continu­ous basis, you are not going to be productive on a consistent basis," Holtz continued. 
Part of the blame for Powlus' poor performance was placed on the shoulders of the offen­sive line, who had a hard time pass blocking against Boston College, and the receiving corps, who could not get open, let alone stay inbounds. 
Holtz remarked that because of the poor exhibition put on by the whole Irish team, changes are dehmtely m order. 
"I would be surprised if there weren't quite a few changes in stock by Saturday," he contin­ued. "But right now it would be unfair for anybody to mention them until I see them in pads." 
Because of several nagging injuries to some key positions, Holtz's options are limited. But he did hint that both the offen­sive and defensive lines needed some adjustments. 
While the defensive line needs improvements in its pass rush, the coaching staff seeks to make changes on the offen­sive line that will hopefully help to give Powlus more time to throw. 
Because the last thing a quar­terback needs is to feel pres­sure from both an opposing defensive line and his own coach. 
Aggies, but the first meeting


Volleyball 
with Texas . Coach Brown is grateful forcontinued from page 16 

the time off the team has had to cess of the Irish. practice, and is glad they had 
Looking ahead, the Irish will the match last night to prepare depart on Thursday for a trip to them for this weekend. the Lone Star state to face 14th "The time off was very impor­
ranked Texas on Friday and tant for us," said Brown. "But Texas A&M on Saturday. It will I'm very glad we had the match be the second confrontation tonight against Michigan to 
between the Irish and the prepare us for this weekend." 
Marker. "We knew the Belles would be tough blockers and tough passers, but we concen­trated on our strengths and came out winning the game." 
"We have got to play to win," said Schroeder-Biek. " Not play it safe." 
Saint Mary's made eight serv­ing errors total in all three games. The Belles seem to be more tentitive as the games progress, according to Schroeder-Biek. 
"Meg Kelly tips a lot of the balls over," said Schroeder­Biek. "When we want her to slam them." 
Kelly, one of three of the Belles strongest hitters is a dominating force on the floor, 
NOW 


according to Schroeder-Biek. 
"You really know when she puts the ball down," said Schroeder-Biek, "because the coach's eyes on the other team bulge out." 



HIRING 
Food Servers & Bartenders Must be 21 , Flexible Hours Apply Anytime 

272,3672 
Cleveland Rd. across from UP Mall 


() in JltARverfi§ing eifhero 

LEO BURNETT COMPANY, INC. 
The Leo Burnett Company is the largest ad agency in Chicago. And the man who created it graduated with a Bachelor of Arts. So don't let the fact that you're a History major or even a· Chemical Engineering major keep you away from our presentation about a career in Client Service. At Leo Burnett, we're interested in people. Not majors. Thursday, October 13th, 7-9 pm University Club 




------------~-------------------------------------­
Wednesday, October 12, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 


Tide getting no respect 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. 

They have the reputation. They have the record. What the Alabama Crimson Tide doesn't have is much respect in the rankings. 
With a 6-0 record, the six­time national champions would figure to be right in the thick of the race for a seventh. Instead, Alabama finds itself behind a roadblock at No. 10 -trailing three teams that already have lost. 
"I heard something about us winning ugly," defensive tackle Shannon Brown said Monday. "I don't understand that term. What's the name of the game anyway? Winning and losing. All the stats in the world don't mean a thing. The bottom of the line is whether you win or lose." 
OK, that's a point well taken. On the other hand, it's hard to find fault with poll voters who have been unwilling to overlook Alabama's opponents. 
In five victories over Division 1-A teams (the season opener was a 42-13 rout of 1-AA Te nne sse e-Chatta noo ga), Alabama has won by an aver­age margin of just seven points. 
And those teams aren't exactly the Fearsome Fivesome. Vanderbilt, Arkansas, Tulane, Georgia and Southern Mississippi boast a cumulative record of 11-17. 
"We have yet to have a good 60 minutes of football," safety Willie Gaston said. "Until we do that, we're never going to move up in the polls." 
Coach Gene Stallings insist­ed there's no sense of urgency on the team, no need to start worrying about the rankings ­even though Alabama was ranked fourth at this point in 1992, when the Tide went on to capture its most recent national championship. 
''I'm not concerned about that. I guess I should be," Stallings said. ''I'm just trying to win the game. We haven't been very impressive in some of our wins. That's probably the reason we're where we are (in the polls)." 
Backup quarterback Brian Burgdorf, who could see play­ing time this week against Tennessee with starter Jay Barker nursing a sore right shoulder, can't help but take a glance at the rankings. 
"Sure, we look at the polls," he said. "We want to win the national championship, and that's how you win it. We want to win our games here at the end of the season so we can be in position to win it." 
That's what happened two years ago, when the Tide steadily moved up and found it­self ranked No. 2 at the end of the regular season. Alabama then beat Florida in the Southeastern Conference title game and top-ranked Miami in the Sugar Bowl to win it all. 
"I think the polls are a bunch of ... hogwash," said Brown, searching for a print­able word. "If we go out and win every week, that will take care of itself and we'll be where we want to be." 
Not at this rate. Alabama was 12th in The Associated Press preseason poll and jumped to 11th without playing a game. Now, after six victories, the Tide has moved up only one more spot. 
Alabama, ranked sixth in the coaches' poll, is No. 8 in the bowl coalition rankings, just behind Miami. If the Hurricanes won the remainder of their games, it's conceivable they could play Nebraska or Colorado in the Orange Bowl. 




{_l--­
is sponsoring araffle 
WIN AFREE WEEKS STAY AT 

JAMAICA, JAMAICA 
An all-inclusive resort in Runaway Bay Spend spring break in luxuryl 

Proceeds benefit the newly founded 



NO VOLUNTEER PROGRAMME/JAMAICA 

Tickets on sole of the LaFortune desk for $5 Drawing will be 12/8/94 

Please support the volunteers' efforts (Airfare not included) 

lit\ 


its first five games by an Jnr••""~·;, score of 51-12, a team won 17 straight 
·"'·""'""''"a,stel'n Conference 
..·....·•· atFlorida Field. 
at's why, even though "'"'"'"....·.. (6-0) is a 16-point un~ ·· Bowden is happy to n"'""' ·nu•Gators on the sched­
defmitely don't envision 
missing it." added . . . urn place-kicker Ma ·.·.. Hawkins. 
To a man, the Tigers appear 'confident They grumble about ;., • the point spread but say it 
oesn't matter. 
; They would rather look back · ···•.··· this point last season, when 
.,...~,...,,.,...... ,,.-.... bB·at·e·n* fourth-ranked 
catne into Jordan-Hare ..••.. !'ita1dium·· and was shocked 38­
By JOE RUFF 
Associated Press 

LINCOLN, Neb. 
What requirements are there to play quarterback for the country's No. 2 college team? 
As of now, a great deal of experience isn't one of them. 
Going into Saturday's game against No. 16 Kansas State (4­0), a team coach Tom Osborne calls the toughest opponent yet this year, quarterback Tommie Frazier is probably out for the season with recurring blood clots in his right calf. 
Backup Brook Berringer sustained a partially collapsed left lung in Nebraska's 42-32 win over Wyoming on Oct. 1 and may be unavailable. The same lung partially collapsed again last week in a 32-3 win over Oklahoma State and doc­tors are monitoring his recov­ery. 
No. 3 quarterback Matt Turman will play Saturday if Berringer can't. Backing up Turman is second-team wing­back Clester Johnson, who last played quarterback three years ago. 
Johnson was recruited as a quarterback, but the junior moved to defensive back and then wingback his first season. At least he's on offense, which means he deals with the same plays every day. 
That isn't the case for Tony Veland, a free safety, and Barron Miles, a cornerback, who have taking snaps at quar­terback. 
"He's (Johnson) still a wing­back," Osborne said. "I think he's set to take 16 snaps at quarterback today. 
"I've not asked him how he felt about it, I just told him that this was what he had to do. He seemed to be pleased, near as I could tel}." 
"Of course, I've had about 15 players come up and tell me how talented they are at quar­terback." 
Although Veland took some snaps at quarterback in prac­tice last week, on Monday he worked exclusively at defense. 
Veland has said he wanted to play quarterback only if he could start; Osborne has said switching to Johnson had noth­ing to do with Veland's com­ments. 
page 14 The Observer· INTERHALL FOOTBALL Wednesday, Ocrober 12, 1994 
• IH 
continued from page 16 

improvement. 
"We have had some prob­lems with the flow of the offense," she said. "It has been a little shaky and inconsistent. I'd say our defensive line is the best aspect of our team, though. And we ha\!e a lot of speed." 
Breen-Phillips has two play­ers who have proved significant in the last couple of games, according to captain Melissa McPike. 
Linebacker K.C. Bresnahan caught an interception and ran it back for a touchdown in their last game against Cavanaugh. 
"Running back Wendy Mores has been instrumental in scoring," McPike said. 
Sorensen explained that the key to a win over B.P. is to stay focused and intense throughout the entire game. 
"Our two captains are going to fire up the offense, and we have a couple of players on the defense who will take over and get them fired up, too," she said. "We are going to win. We are going to just play our game, and we know that it is not going to be an easy win, but we are confident." 
B.P. is also looking to keep their minds in the game. McPike knows what it takes to get the job done. 
"We have been working on our defense and blocking in practice, specifically defending the option and protecting our quarterback," she said. "We· have a lot of young players who are really energizing the team." 
COLORADO 
Walsh vs. Badin 
The key to Walsh's 4-0 record and No. 1 ranking is that they have never underestimated the opponent. 
Add to this a talented full­back who has returned to full strength after suffering from a pulled quadriceps muscle, and you have the undefeated Walsh team, who feel prepared for the challenge against No. 10 Badin tonight. 
"We don't want to let the cat out of the bag, but we are look­ing for Rachel Kavanaugh to step up to the plate and sur­prise some people," Walsh cap­tain Kirsten Edmundson said. "We are expecting some good things." 
Edmundson said her team realizes Badin needs a big win tonight to get them into the playoffs. 
"We'd like another win, but we are not underestimating them and their talent," she said. "We just need to keep playing like we have been." 
"We know they have a pret­ty good wide receiver and their quarterback can throw, but we have some fast runners and some good hands on our re­ceivers. So, according to our coaches, the key to stopping their offense is containment." 
Badin lost an important player in their loss to Lyons last week. According to captain Jill Satanek, third year defensive lineman Julie Janowak sprained her ankle and will be out for the rest of the season. 
"It is a really big loss to have her out," Satanek said. 
However, freshman Fran Malony, also on the defensive line, can pick up the slack judg­ing from the way she has per­formed these last couple of games. 
"She has been incredible. She seems to make every tack­le. She knows where the play is and she gets there," Satanek said. 
As long as Badin executes well and they communicate on the field, they have a chance against number one. 
"We have the talent, we just need to get everything to­gether," Satanek said. "If we do that, it will build up our con­fidence and take us from there." 
Howard vs. Cavanaugh 
Sloppy. One of tonight's three games could get sloppy. 
In what Cavanaugh captain Erin Williams titles "The Battle of the Defeated," thirteenth­ranked Cavanaugh (0-3) takes on twelfth-rated Howard (0-3) and one team will emerge with their first victory of the season. 
The  key  to  winning  the  
game?  The  team  who  can  
score.  

"We scored for the first time last week, so we are pretty con­fident about the game right now," Williams said. "Primarily, we have been work­ing on our offense this week in practice, and it is looking good. I'd say we are relatively solid all around. We just need to get into the endzone." 
Amy Visnosky, linebacker for Howard, said her team is onti­mistic. 



"We played a good game against Walsh last week, and this week we have been work­ing on everything. On defense, we are working on covering reverses and the option, and our offense is performing much better. We have started to score." 
Visnosky named running back Sarah Norton as a defi­nite asset to the team. 
"She is the fastest person on the team, and she is good at eluding the defense," Visnosky said. 
Cavanaugh, on the other hand, has two players who will be looking to stop Norton: safeties Maggie Marren and Judy Kralik. 
"Maggie covers patterns really well and has had a cou­ple of interceptions," Williams said. "Judy is all over the field pulling flags." 
In addition, Cavanaugh quarterback Katie McCoyd may lead her team to a touch­down or two. 
GO REALLY IRISH! 
Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 
TONIGHT OCT. 12 7:00P.M. Game Room, Haggar College Center SAINT MARY'S CAMPUS 
Students discuss curriculum and sports at St. Patrick's College, Maynooth 
APPLICATIONS DISTRIBUTED 

The 2nd Annual Emil T. Hofman, PhD lecture 
James Curran, MD '66 
Assistant Surgeon General Director, Office ofHIVI AIDS Centers for Disease Control 
Atlanta 



FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

... 
BILL WATTERSON 

S£.'C. ?! r \)(:)I{T tJ\t>-nt.R TC:> fl...\'\'{01-\E ! 1'-\0SOD'I Ct..R\:5 A.&liJI ~£. .1 
.'I· 


... 
-


SCOTT ADAMS 
THESE DEVELOPf"\ENTS WILL NOT ENHANCE 11\E IMAGE OF IECHNICAL PROFESSIONALS. 



WHEN LOOKING AT HOW ALCOHOL AFFECTS A PERSON, MEN AND WOMEN ARE NOT CREATED EQUAL 
A. Women have less of the protective enzyme dehydrogenase, which helps break down alcohol in the stomach. A woman will absorb 30% more alcohol into her blood than a man of the same weight who has drunk the same amount. 
8, Women have less body fluid and more body fat than a man. Since alcohol is not fat soluble, the concentration of alcohol in a woman's blood will be higher than that of a man's. 
C. A woman's ability to oxidize alcohol (break it down into simple substances) is affected right before and during her menstrual cycle, slowing this 
process down. As a result, if you have a man and woman of the same body mass, Qllii drink for a woman can have approximately the same effect as two drinks for a man. Due to this research, the specific low-risk guidelines for drinking have changed for women from: 
For Men  For Women  
0 •  Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're under 21, driving, chemically  o.. Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're under 21, driving, chemically  
dependent, on certain medications, or pregnant.  to  dependent, on certain medications, or pregnant.  
1 • One drink per hour, which sets the pace for moderate drinking.  1 .. One drink per hour, which sets the pace for moderate drinking.  
3 • No more than three drinks per day, and never daily.  2 .. No more than two drinks per day, and never daily.  

• 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
£'4Ht.'{Ol'l£. Tf>.,'t(£5 to\£ FoR GRAI>llt.D.' l'\oBOD1 
Pt>.'iS f>.l{'i f>.\1£.1{\\ol{ 
It!-\~ NEEDS! 'I I· 
~~~ 
~ 
DILBERT 
DOGBE.RT THE FUTURIST 
50ME.DAY) KE. YBOARDS WILL BE REPLACED BY MOTION­SENSING RINGS ON YOUR FINGERS. 
\ 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Scrap 2& Interstate
1 Author Bret haulers& Oberon's imp 27 What's sweet 10 Not vivid about parting 14 "Goodbye, mon 31 Discouragingami" word15 King Harald's 34 Burdencapital 35 "Behold!"
1& Cameo stone 3& Massachusetts17 "-to Belong vacation spot to You" (1939 38 Brandy cocktail 
song) 40 Loose
18 McKern and Carroll 
41 Bruce or Laura 
42 Elephant's org. 

43 Offering vistas 20 Tough toy 45 Long tales 21 Apollo, 47 High note 
Aphrodite, etc. 48 Site of 23 Without 36-Across and exception 22-Down 
19 "Au I~ Lang 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+::+.-:-t=+:::-i 1 o Physics particle 
31 So 
11 Author Seton 

32Lip-­----~~l!~lllmm11!~.;:;+;:; 12 Actress 33 Model Moss 

II! Redgrave 
37 Sophomore's
13 Alimony getters 
age, maybe
22 --Players 
38 Divide
-:+.;..+-;:.e+=-l (theater group) -;+.::+.;:+::-+.::; 24 Atlanta sports 39 Stumble site, with "The" 41 Propriety 
~ 
<! 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
51 Accept, after negotiation 
55 Like a mouse 57 Kind of arch 58 1986 #1 hit by 
Stars hip 59 "La Gioconda," e.g. &o Taximeter 
reading &1 In-(stuck) &2 Alate &3 Tennis score &4 Seven Hills site &5 What roll calls 
count 
DOWN 
1 Reagan pal AI 2 Extemporize 3 Spanish wine 4 Domingo and 
others 5 1936 Literature Nobelist &Victim of Hamlet 7Vain 28 Diana of "The a Become Avengers" tiresome 29 Ersatz butter 9 Greek universe 
30 Twist 
THE COf'\PUTER SCREEN WILL BE PROJECTED IN YOUR GLASSES AS A 3-D If"\AGE. 
( 



44 Onetime chief of 64-Across 4& Opponent of Hannibal 49 Foreshadowings 50 Lament for the dead 
51 It can hide a bed 
52 "Oh, my!" 
53 Garro! "Tootsie" 
54 Casino game 
5& Calendar pages 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

For additional information, contact the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, 631-7970_ 
Wednesday, October 12, 1994  The Observer • TODAY  page 15  

SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, October 12, 1994 
• VOLLEYBAll 

Irish run home win streak to 19 
Upstart Irish take down Wolverines in three games 

... 

By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
After 11 days of practicing and perfecting, the Notre Dame volleyball team kicked off the second half of their season in style last night with a 15-8, 15­1, 15-13 victory over the Michigan Wolverines. 
Michigan's 5-11 record was deceiving, as they put forth a powerful performance against the Irish. Michigan's last two losses were to top-ten teams Penn State and Ohio State, and it was obvious they were accus­tomed to playing high caliber teams. They matched the Irish hitting performance in game one with 18 kills each, but the Wolverines could not fill a seven point deficit, mostly due to hitting and passing errors. 
In the second game, the Irish were nearly flawless, committing only one hitting er­ror and allowing Michigan to score only one point. In combi­nation with the team's 18 kills in 23 attempts, they produced an excellent .739 kill percent­age in game two. 
Although the Irish struggled a bit in game three, falling behind by as much as six points, their overall perfor­mance was indicative of their no. 11 ranking. 
"We played very well, espe­cially with our hitting," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown. 
"We let up a little in game three which was disappointing, but we came back well." 
The Irish performance was highlighted by All-American outside hitter Christy Peters who had a match-high 17 kills 


The Observer/Eric Ruethling Sophomore Jen Briggs and the Irish had 39 digs in last night's win over the Wolverines. 
and 9 digs. Freshman middle blocker Jamie Lee, who has proven herself a powerful force for Irish opponents, also con­tributed 6 kill and 6 digs. On the serving scene, junior Brett Hensel served 3 of the 9 service aces the Irish handed Michigan. 
Defensive consistency has been a key for the Irish success this season and last night was no exception. The team com­bined for 39 digs and 9 total team blocks. As of their previ­ous victory over Louisville, the Irish were second in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference in digs per game with 15.64. 
Last night's victory was the 19th consecutive home victory in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center for the Irish. The Irish now stand at 4­1 over Michigan, undefeated at 3-0 under Coach Brown's reign. Their record of 16-1 contains only one small blemish, a loss to Michigan State who the Irish had previously beaten. The Irish ranking has continually been on the rise, starting at 17th pre-season, and now at 11 with no end in sight to the sue-
see VOLLEYBALL I page 12 

Holtz to put more pressure on Powlus 
By MIKE NORBUT esteemed reputation, the Associate Spons Editor coach has handled his quarter­back with kid gloves all season. 
Ron Powlus has had to deal 
Now, after two losses, Holtz's with plenty of pressure this strategy in dealing with him, as year. well as the whole team, has 
But don't tell that to Lou changed. Holtz. "What I have always done in The Notre Dame head foot­the past is put tremendous ball coach announced at his pressure on the players mental­
weekly press conference ly in practice so they get really Tuesday his intentions to simu­tense," the coach continued. late more of a game situation "That tenseness in practice will 
for his team in practice, espe­then translate to the tenseness cially with his quarterback. you experience in a game." 
"I don't think I have put Powlus was been unable to go enough pressure on him in full speed in practice last week practice, and I think that was a due to a groin injury, and the 
mistake in hindsight now," lack of preparation and repeti­

• Holtz said. tions showed. The quarter­
Because of the hype back's timing was off and his surrounding Powlus and his 
see HOLTZ I page 12 
• WOME~'S INTERHAll 

BP, Pangborn in key IH match-up 
By Shannon O'Donnell SportS Writer 
Look out, Breen-Phillips. 
A freshman running back from Pangborn is on a hot streak. Kelly Brady will be a main factor in the match-up between No. 2 Pangborn and No. 8 Breen-Phillips tonight after coming off a game in which she scored two touch­downs, according to Pangborn captain Trish Sorensen. 
Last Wednesday agains Cavanaugh, Brady caught one 60-yard reception for a touch­down and ran the other one in. 
"She really sparked up th team in the last game,' Sorensen said. 
Brady is not Pangborn' only weapon, however According to Sorensen, thei defense is showing signs o 
see IHI page 1 


.. SMC VOLLEYBALL 

3 

DAYS
Saint Mary's volleyball team was beaten by 
UNTIL
Kalamazoo in four games last night. 
MIDNIGHT 
See Page 12 
MANIA
Volleyball 











