
Friday, September 9, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No.lO TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Irish racing team's new ca:r is real, real fine 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
Associate News Editor 
"She's real fme, my 385." 

In their original song, the Beach Boys sing "she's real fme my 409," glamorizing loud, four-barreled, gas-guzzling hot rod cars that whisked people across the wide open American roads. 
But for the most part, that era has passed, and Notre Dame engineering students are helping to usher in a new way of automotive travel by racing a sleek, almost dead silent, Indy­style battery powered car with a maximum voltage of 385. 
Notre Dame, along with 11 other universities, purchased rolling chassis and fiberglass shells as specified by the Solar and Electric Racing Association (S.E.R.A.) in Phoenix. A chal­lenge to the schools was then put out to see who could design the best type of propulsion sys­tem. 
"There's two objectives in­volved," said Col. John Miles, Notre Dame's assistant dean of Engineering. "One is to give undergrads hands on research, and the second is to enhance technology of electric vehicles." 
Notre Dame Racing, which consisted of 26 undergraduates last year, chose a lead acid bat­tery produced by Delco/Remy for their car. The undergrads, led by their advisor Professor William Barry, then designed what they believed was the most efficient way to install 28 12-volt batteries. 
Just how well did Notre Dame's design work? In the two races they competed in this summer, they won both pole positions, won a race in Cleveland, and came in second 


Photo courtesy of Kevin Burke The Delco/Remy, one of the Notre Dame Engineering department's recent creations, zips around the track. The department uses the car to let stu­dents try their hand at research and development. The electrically-powered car has given racing audiences a glimpse of automotive future. 
to Ohio State at Indianapolis. the car's 1,100 pounds of bat-not bad considering that it was ing Team has not found instant 
The races are usually 15 laps teries. a road course with lots of sharp champagne in the winner's cir-long with all cars taking at least "At the Cleveland race we turns. We've never had the car cle. Obstacle upon obstacle has one pit stop to recharge batter-managed to go the longest-8 up to maximum speed, but we been overcome, according to ies. At the Cleveland race, it laps-before we had to pit," figure it could go 150 to 160 Barry. took Notre Dame's pit crew Miles said. "Our average speed miles per hour." only 50 seconds to change out was 83 miles per hour, which is Unfortunately, the Irish Rae-see CARS/ page 12 
Alcohol abuse plagues campus 
By KATIE MURPHY most especially alcohol on col­• 90 percent of all campus 
Associate News Editor lege campuses, is inhibiting the rapes occur when alcohol is be­intellectual, social and spiritual ing used by either the assailant development of our students." or the victim; 
For years, alcohol consump­

Although the commission • 240,000 to 360,000 of the tion has been deemed a legiti­originally intended to address a nation's 12 million undergrad­mate rite of passage on college 

number of types of substance uates will ultimately die fromand universi­
abuse, recent scientific litera­alcohol-related causes-more
ty campuses 

ture and research targeted al­than the number who will get
across the 

cohol abuse as the most serious PhDs and MAs combined.
nation. 

campus problem. With this in "Alcohol consumption is aDrinking par­
mind, the commission decided health issue, but it is also a
ties, tail­

to ultimately focus the study on moral issue," Malloy said.
gaters, and 

this trend, "We're less accountable, we'recollege bars "The pattern of drinking on more vulnerable, and we'reare typical 
aspects of Father Malloy college campuses is unhealthy, less human when we are drunk excessive, and unnecessary," than when we are sober."
American 

Malloy said. The commission's 98-pagecollege life, even though 3 out The commission observed report, "Rethinking Rites of
of 4 college students cannot that: Passage: Substance Abuse on
legally drink. 

• over the past 15 years, the America's Campuses," was sentIn a study released last June 
percentage of college women to each university and collegeby the Commission on Sub­drinking to get drunk has more president in the nation thisstance Abuse at Colleges and 
than tripled, from approxi­summer.
Universities, the extent of alco­mately 10 percent to 35 per­In addition to suggesting that 

hol consumption among Amer­cent; campuses make the issue of al­
ica's college students has 

• each year students spend cohol abuse a top priority, the
reached staggering heights. over $5.5 billion on alcoholic commission proposed that a
"With the greater risk of AIDS 

beverages-more than they national Alcohol Awareness In­and other potentially tragic spend on all other drinks and dex be formulated. This indexconsequences, alcohol abuse on books combined; would help institutions assesscampus has now reached crisis • 8 percent of students drink their own programs and alsoproportions," said Father Ed­an average of 16 drinks or allow parents and students toward Malloy, president of the more per week; compare the alcohol environ­
University of Notre Dame and chairman of the commission. • 95 percent of violent crime ment at different schools. on campus is alcohol-related; 
"All substance abuse, but 

see MALLOY/ page 4 
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, September 9, 1994 
• Inside Column 

The common good, not the good of the party 


nomena that now controls the headlines of this coun­try's newspapers. From page one to the opinion pages, it's staring America in the face, in big, bold type. The malaise pervades both parties, and threatens to bring our political sys­
tem to its knees. Dave Tyler 
Consider these banners Assistant News Editor that recently ran in the Chicago Tribune. One read, "November looking sweet to Republicans," and it was closely fol­lowed by a letter to the editor entitled, "Don't counts Dems out yet." 
These are just two examples of events that have colored our political landscape for some time. This pattern has earned several names from the press. It's been called gridlock, apathy, partisanship-to name a few. These terms are ·ust smoke-screens. Simply put, the elected rep­resentatives, politicians, and members o America's two parties have put self-interest, their party and political backers ahead of such a basic idea as voting with your conscience and the common good in mind. 
Members of both sides have succumbed to pressures from political action committees, spe­cial interest groups, lobbyists, and other fat-cat supporters. The instance is few and far between where a member of Congress asks, "I wonder i this package would benefit the people of my state or district?" Instead, politicians ask them­selves if actions will win campaign contribu­tions, or political backing . 
It is also the rule, rather than the exception that political parties think in terms of elections instead of ideas. Politicians conduct business with a great deal of name calling, hair-pulling, and personal attacks that border on slander. An activity will not be undertaken unless it; dam­ages the other party and furthers the status o your own, increases a politician's exposure, helps a congressmen get elected, or any combi­nation of the above. 
This must not be. This sad state of affairs has become endemic to American politics, and its reign of terror must end. Three hundred years ago a philosopher named John Locke wrote about the concept of the common, or public good. He held that there were certain ideas that were beneficial to a nation and its people, and that the leaders of that nation should take action with these goals in mind. Political ques­tions should be dealt with in this framework: Does the idea promote the public good and wel­fare? 
These ideas profoundly affected the framers of the Constitution, the supreme law of the land, which the present political generation are sworn to uphold and abide by. This government is for the people and their "general welfare." 
The nation is in dire need of unity and direc­tion. Millions of people are living in poverty, without health care, and in constant fear o drug dealers and gang violence. A staggering debt, growing dropout rates and an increasing wage disparity plague the country. year olds are becoming murderers. Both houses, both parties and the White House need to remember the lessons of Locke and the Constitution. It is time fix our nation's ills, not fight with partisan bias. At all costs, the common good must be promoted. 
Locke also notes that when the government ignores the public good, the people should have the power to rise up and remove it. We in the United States do. Just something to think about. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Today's Staff  
News  Production  
Dave Tyler Mara Divis  Susan Marx Jackie Moser  
Sports Rian Akey Viewpoint Suzy Fry  Accent Mary Good Tom Roland Graphics  

• World at a Glance 

R.E.M., Salt-N-Pepa-En Vogue dominate MTV Music Awards 
NEW YORK In presenting a lifetime achievement 
And the award for upstaging its own 
award to the Rolling Stones, Rolling award program: Once again, it's MTV! Stone magazine publisher Jann Sure, the music channel was handing Wenner talked about how much the out its 11th annual MTV Video Music enduring rock band had meant to him Awards on Thursday night, with lots of throughout his life. big-name nominees. But the pre-party "They've inspired me in word and focus was on newlyweirds Michael and deeds. I took their name for my maga-Lisa Marie Presley-Jackson, who •••1111"' zine. And they mean more to me now opened the show with their first live ...u.c.:a.~~.JUJa.:::~~UI than ever. I'm a total stone-cold Stones television appearance as husband and fan, and proud of it," Wenner said. 
wife. "Please welcome Mr. and Mrs. Michael Jackson," the announcer intoned as the program went on the air. ''I'm very happy to be here. And just think, nobody thought this would last," Jackson said, then planted a big kiss on his wife to the squealing delight of the crowd. 
R.E.M. -which had six nominations -won the direc­tion, cinematography, editing and so-called "break­through" awards for its haunting "Everybody Hurts." The dance award went to "Whatta Man" by Salt-N-Pepa, featuring En Vogue. Aerosmith won the group citation for "Cryin'." And Counting Crows were selected best new artist for "Mr. Jones." 
Bush to face Chiles in Florida race 
MIAMI 
Gov. Lawton Chiles easily won the Democratic nomination in his re-elec­tion bid while GOP candidates led by Jeb Bush waged a fierce battle in Thursday's primary for their party's nomination. First brother-in-law Hugh Rodham took an early lead in a four­way battle for the Democratic nomina­tion to the U.S. Senate. The winner 

faces an uphill fight against first-term Republican Sen. Connie Mack, who was unopposed in his primary. Bush, son of former President Bush, led a crowded GOP field running for governor. In very early returns, Bush had 4,319 votes, or 42 percent; Florida Secretary of State Jim Smith had 1,869 votes, or 18 percent; Insurance Commissioner Tom Gallagher had 1, 768 votes, or 17 per­cent; and state Sen. Ander Crenshaw had 1,410, or 14 percent. Three others trailed. The biggest question of the primary was who would face Bush in an expected Oct. 4 runoff, which will be held if no candidate receives a majority of the votes. 
Black leader elected coalition president 
NEW ORLEANS 
A Florida pastor who says the nation's largest black church must be a leader in the battles against AIDS, poverty and violence was elected president of the National Baptist Convention U.S.A. Inc. Thursday. The Rev. Henry Lyons, president of the Florida General Baptist Convention and a vice president of the national body, won a close election over four other candidates. Lyons, 51, pastor of Bethel Metropolitan Baptist Church in St. Petersburg, received 3,545 votes. The Rev. W. Franklyn Richardson, a Mt. Vernon, N.Y. pastor who served as general secretary of the convention for 12 years, finished second. Lyons succeeds the Rev. T.J. Jemison, the Lousiana pastor who after 12 years is pro­hibited from seeking re-election. With an estimated 8 million members in 33,000 churches, the convention claims to be the world's largest black organization. The election of the convention's third president in 42 years comes at a criticical juncture for black churches under pressure to tackle AIDS, violence, poverty and the disso­lution of family life. In 1961, the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and other civil rights leaders left the convention to form the Progressive National Baptist Convention after their candidate lost a turbulent bid for the presidency. 

That provoked Mick Jagger to joke:"Without us, Jann, the magazine might have been called the Herman's Hermits Monthly." 
Performing between the acceptance speeches was a musical smorgasbord: the Stones, Bruce Springsteen, Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, the Beastie Boys, Snoop Doggy Dogg, Stone Temple Pilots. Boyz II Men, Salt-N-Pepa, Green Day and Smashing Pumpkins 
Virtually all the performers were nominees. After win­ning the Academy Award for "Streets of Philadelphia," Springsteen collected a kitschy statue of an astronaut ­which is what the MTV video award looks like -for best video from a film to put alongside that Oscar. 
Gary police search for missing man GARY, Ind. 
Gary police were seeking information today on a 32­year-old man who was expected to join the department later this month. "We d~n't know if he met with foul play. We don't know anything," Detective Cpl. Bill Burns said today. "This is a complete mystery to us at this time and we're asking for help. Gregory Iverson hasn't been heard from since talking to his father Sunday night, Burns said. Gregory proudly reported that he had been doing well at the police academy and would be getting his Gary patrol­man's uniform soon, said his father, Millard, who retired from the Gary Police Department last year after 29 years on the force. Iverson didn't report back to the academy in Plainfield on Tuesday morning and his father called the absence unusual. "We're all befuddled about this," Millard Iverson said. 
John Mellencamp cancels tour 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Singer John Mellencamp canceled the remainder of his "Dance Naked" tour today after doctors discovered a clogged artery in his heart. Mellencamp, 42, underwent tests at Bloomington Hospital on Wednesday after he complained of fatigue. Doctors discovered an occluded artery of the heart, said Lauren Murphy, a spokesperson for Mercury Records in New York. "Basically, that means there's a blockage there, a clogged artery. They recommended that he cancel the rest of his tour and rest," Murphy said. "Thll doctors are coming up with a course of treatment. The prognosis is extremely good for a full recovery." Murphy did not know what sort of treatment Mellencamp would need. Mellencamp had been at home in Bloomington on a scheduled break from his tour when he began feeling ill, Murphy said. He will continue staying there to rest and edit the video for "Dance Naked," the next single from his album. The tour, which began July 29, had 14 dates remaining, including a show Thursday night in Vancouver. The tour was scheduled to end in Indianapolis on Oct. 1. Murphy said the singer will not be making up any of the canceled shows. 

• !m:liana Weather • National Weather 
Friday, Sept. 9 
Accu· Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 9. 
lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pmssure ~ ~ 
H L B E;S'JITIJ 0 !ZJ~ ¥ ~U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Lab Tech Chris Mullins Michael Hungeling Roben Bollman 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Atlanta  82  69  Houston  97  76  New York  72  59  
Anchorage  56  35  London  64  54  Philadelphia  75  57  
Chicago  84  58  Los Angeles  82  62  Phoenix  104  83  
Cleveland  72  53  Miami  89  n  Rome  84  61  
Denver  91  57  Minneapolis  74  50  St. Louis  80  60  
Honolulu  97  77  New Orleans 91  70  Washington, D.C. 80  61  

The Observer • NEWS page3 
u•e c.are l~air 


SMC considers installing cable 
By JENNIFER LEWIS Saint Mary's is looking into "There are not enough t.v. 
News Writer two different options of lounges in the halls," said installing cable. One is laying Osburger. "in order for it to be 


271-7674 

Due to logistical problems, wire through the buildings, and worth while, we would have to
1811 South Bend Ave. 


Saint Mary's has put the cable the other is installing wireless create more lounge areas. policy proposal submitted in systems through a satellite Colleen McKenna, resident the Fall of 1993 on the back­dish. There are complications hall director of LeMans Hall burner, according to LeMans with both, according to vice regards cable in high demand Residence Hall Director Colleen president of fiscal affairs, Dan and believes it should be McKenna. Osburger. installed as soon as possible. 
The proposal, made by the Laying cable would create "I really think in today's soci­Resident Hall Association time consuming disruptions on ety cable is a necessity, cable (RHA) to the Senior Officers campus. Osburger said, the T.V is much more than Mtv and came about after several years wireless approach has too Fox," she said. "T.V. has of investigation. many limitations. The cable proven to be an educational 
would only be accessable in the tool just as much as an enter­lobbies of the resident halls. tainment source.ND vs. FSU Most of the dorms only have Regardless of the positive one lounge area with a T.V. aspects of cable there will be a 
and due to difficulties with the two to three year delay due to satellite dishes, LeMans,would minimum cost and planning, 
Disneyland Package 
4 Days, 3 Nights, 4 Tickets, 
be unable to posses cable. said Osburger. 
Hotel, Air 

$1 0/Raffle Ticket Send Check to: NO Club of Austin 
south Bend/s oakwood villas 
• 
single-family homes -villa concept 

• 
association landsc~ping & snow removal 

• 
6 models; 1200 to 1900 square feet, or more 

• 
minutes from Notre Dame & StMary's 

• 
minutes from Blackthorn Golf Course 

• 
quick access to the Toil Road and shopping 

• 
Miller Builders -quality homes 


Oakwood Villas 2903 Corpus Christi Dr South Bend, IN 46628 
(219) 277-0337 



Oriental Garden,~\'.~~
Restaurant ~,, -~~ 
Located on the North Side of Sam's Club in Willshire Plaza, Mishawaka 
Dine,In or Open Mon,fri
-· ,· 

Carry Out :~-~~' 11,8 
'· i,.., • Sat 4,3 

273A290 : 1 ' I·~ :., ' ' \ ,..,.. t • • .' , I 
,t 1• '1,( • 
..-·. Closed Sunday 

All food cooked in Heart Healthy Canola Oil NoMSG 
1 712 Amber Skyway 
Professional Hair Care Services Round Rock, Texas 78664 

-~ountrg !J{arvester Presents 'J'l Collution ofMemories· 
IRISH,.VILLAGE 
Authentic wood replicas of Noire Dame Buildings 
The VIllage Is Growlngl 



JL 

We are Pleased to Announce Additions to Our Collection of Notre Dame Buildings: 
School of Architecture, Law School, Morrissey Manor & Howard Hall 
af... The Country Harvester ~ LaFortune Student Center C; !::_~ Lower Level 
(219) 631~6714 Ojficia[{y Licensed Product of'Tlil 'University of9{ptre 'lJame 





GRAINS & GRINDS 
iB3@J~IJ'?C@]fo 

NEWYORK-STYLE BAGELS 
HAVE CoME To ToWN 
Bage/s(NEWYoRKSTYLE)  Coffee(EvERv STYLE)  
Plain  Sesame  Poppy  Garlic  Regu/dr & Flavorrd Gmrmet Co./foes 
Wheat Salt Onion Cheese Pumpernickel Everything Garlic Cinnamon & Raisin Blueberry Chocolate Chip  Epresso!Cappuccirw CaffoMocha Flavored CaJfo Latte  
SPREADS & SANDWICHES • Plain & Flavored Cream Cheeses  Call Todayfor Unique Catering Options  
• Delicious Fish & Chicken Salads  foryour Next Brunch or Party 
• Fine Deli Meats  
As WELL As  OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK  
• Knishes • Bageldogs •Salads/Soups • Desserts r------------------,I Bring in this coupon for I  310 W. Cleveland Rd. Just East of Grape, by U.P. Mall  
I $150 OFF I ~~d~~~~~~~~:~~~~~~~  272-7023  

~ 
! 

Full Chinese menu plus a select of Japanese and Korean appetizers. 
Accept Visa, Am. Ex, MC. and Discover 

r-----------­
1 15% OFF 
I 1 When you show your 
: STUDENTID 
L_~E~~~'2.~~:~·­

page 4 

Malloy 
continued from page 1 
Malloy noted that the drinking patterns at Notre Dame "resem­ble the patterns elsewhere." Approximately 85-90 percent of University disciplinary problems (such as sexual misconduct, destruction of property, impaired driving, unruliness) are related to alcohol consump­tion. 
The official University rules regarding alcohol consumption are described in du Lac. At the 
------·-------------------------------­
beginning of the school year, a Drug-Free Policy Statement was distributed to campus residents reiterating these regulations. 
At Notre Dame, Malloy expects to foster an extended dialogue on the issue of alcohol con­sumption and eventually review campus policies in du Lac. 
"The members of this com­mission were not prohibitionists and we're not trying to create a society where human freedom is more restricted," said Malloy. "We are much more concerned with matters of health than we have ever been before." 
Commission members included 
The Observer • NEWS 

Joseph Paterno, Head Football Coach, Penn State; William Gray III., President, United Negro College Fund; Johnetta Cole, President of Spelman College; Senators Nancy Kassebaum (R­KA) and Jeff Bingaman (D­N.M.); Harvey Fineberg, Dean, Harvard School of Public Health; Herbert Pardes, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Columbia University; Pamela Ann Rymer, Judge (U.S. Court of Appeals, 9th Cir.). and Frederick Bohen, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, The Rockefeller University. 
Friday, September 9, 1994 
WELCOME BACK TO CAMPUS 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
Where Great Names in GolfCome Together 
Distinctive Gifts for All Occasions Gloves, Shirts, Sweaters, Hats, Balls, Towels, Umbrellas 
Located "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 
Football Weekend Hours Fridays 6:30AM-5:30PM Saturdays 6:00AM-One hour before game Sundays 6:00AM -4:00PM Notre Dame Golf Shop -Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-6425 


Main & Jefferson 
Hours 
Not a Franchise! M s t 11 00 11 oo
'l d on-a : a.m.-: p.m.
A Fam1 y 0 wne Business Sun 4:00-9:00 p.m. 


257-1100 

r 
'This is How Pizza is Supposed to Tatste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery 
Call 273-2EAT 
$2 off large pizza with Student ID 







BIG SCREEN TV 
Need a place to watch 
the Game? 
Come to Club 23 
744 N. Notre Dame Ave. 234-4015 



BIG SC.REEN' TV 



ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories oi Books 

• 
25,<XXJ Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service -$2.00 

• 
Appraisais large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (2191 232-8444 

1\fcyc[e %e Observer 
Prelaw Society .f:..--.Meeting ~ 
7:00 p.nt. Septentber 12, 1994 
121 Law School 
Open to All Students Considering Law 


ndvidea-
GRAND OPENING!!! 

Become a member at ND Video, and enjoy the convenience of Notre Dame's only on campus video store. 
Located in the Basement of LaFortune (next to Irish Gardens) 
Open every day starting Todaul 
Store Hours: 5:00-11 :OOpm daily 
Friday, September 9, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
USAir jet crashes near Pittsburgh, 131 killed 
By MICHAEL HADDIGAN 
Associated Press 
ALIQUIPPA, Pa. 

A USAir jetliner nose-dived into a field while trying to land near Pittsburgh on Thursday, killing all 131 people on board. It was the deadliest crash in the United States in seven years. 
Flight 427 originated at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport and was to stop in Pittsburgh before continuing to West Palm Beach, Fla. 
"I looked up and there it was," said Tom Michel, who was at a gas station near the crash site. "It was just coming straight down. I was screaming for everybody to run. It looked like it was under full power and he just went straight in." 
Air traffic controllers said they lost contact with the plane when it was about seven miles from the airport, said Pat Boyle, a spokesman for the Allegheny County Department of Aviation. He said a report of an explosion before the crash could not be confirmed. 
Michel said there was a "big boom and the sky lit up. There was black smoke everywhere and that was it." 
Witnesses reported a grue­some carnage in a clearing on a heavily-wooded ravine. 
"All we saw was body parts hanging from the trees," said Denise Godich, a nurse who was one of the first at the scene. "There were people everywhere. You could just see parts of them." 

Another eyewitness said pieces of plane and baggage were scattered throughout the area. 
The plane's black box, which records cockpit conversations and flight data, was recovered, said Jim Eichenlaub, manager of Hopewell Township and coordinator of emergency ser­vices at the scene. 
"We have done a fairly exten­sive search of the area and there are no survivors," he said. 
The Boeing 737 was carrying 



The Morris Inn 
welcomes you 

Every Football Saturday 
Pre/Postgame gathering on campus All activities start at 9 a.m. and continue throughout the day 
Brats • Burgers • Hot Dogs Beverages • Hot Roasted Almonds Gift Shop• Big Screen TV s 

Tents for Inclement Weather 
THE f10RRIS INN 
NO PARKING AVAILABLE 
Of NOTRE D411E 


Voted "Best Coffee in Michiana" ­



Gourmet Coffee • Gourmet Sandwiches 
Saturday's Breakfast Specials start at $2.99 
126 passengers and a crew of five, said Dave Shipley, a spokesman for the airline. 
The plane went down shortly after 7 p.m. in a field about seven miles from the airport, which is 20 miles northwest of Pittsburgh. 
"The engines just went dead," eyewitness Sandra Zuback told CNN. "It just blew up." 
Shipley said the weather was clear. "There's no indication at all as to what caused the acci­dent," he said. 
Linda Jones said she was standing on her porch when she saw the plane turn to the right, turn over once or twice, and go down behind some trees. 
The plane was at 6,000 feet when it went off the radar, Boyle said. He said the plane went down at 7:19 p.m., 10 minutes after it was due in at the airport. 
Several doctors who were first told to go to the scene were later told not to bother, hospitals said. 
There were 20 emergency vehicles on top of the hill, and a medical helicopter hovered above. Fire hoses snaked through the trees to try to douse the area. 
Because the terrain near the wreckage is so rugged, rescue crews were having to build a road to the crash site. No attempts to remove debris were expected before Friday. 
A temporary morgue was being set up at the airport, said Arthur Gilkes of the Allegheny County Coroner's Office. "We were told the prospect of sur­vivors is very slim," he said. 
People who had been waiting at Pittsburgh International Airport to meet passengers were taken into a private area and counselors were being brought in. 
The crash was the worst in the United States since Aug. 16, 1987, when a Northwest Airlines MD-80 went down while taking off from Detroit Metropolitan Airport, killing 156 people. A 4-year-old girl was the sole survivor. 
It was the fourth fatal USAir crash in the past five years. 
On July 2, a USAir jetliner crashed in a thunderstorm near the Charlotte-Douglas International Airport in North Carolina, killing 37 of the 57 people on board. 


Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, 1993 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
For Carry Out or Reservations 
(219)272-7376 
130 Dixie Highway South (on U.S. 31 next to Randall's Inn) 
Michiana Now 
Special Sandwich for Saturday Pastrami 
or try our house favorites the Grinder the Californian RJ's Club 


282-2522 
109 West Washington Street•South Bend•Indiana (Just a 70 yard scamper from the future College Football Hall of Fame) Monday-Thursday: 6:30 a.m.-lOp.m. Friday: 6:30-llp.m. • Saturday: 7:30 a.m.-llpm Closed Sunday 


--------------------~-----------­
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 9, 1994 



Do We Believe That This Little Girl is a Human Being? 
Whether or not this little girl is a human being is not a 
matter of theology, morality, or belief as some would lead you to think. 
Rather it is a matter of 
science, and the scientific evidence is clear. Human beings don't produce non-human offspring. 
But you need not take our word for it, just listen to the official journal of the California Medical Association, 
"The very considerable semantic gymnastics which are required to rationalize abortion as anything but taking a human life would be ludicrous if they were not often put forth under socially impeccable auspices." 
Yet this same editorial endorsed abortion on demand. And abortion advocates such as The New Republic and Kate Michelman, head of the National Abortion Rights Action League (NARAL), while normally ducking the issue, have also admitted the same thing.
r It is clear that both pro-life and pro-choice l activists agree that this is a human being. Yet there is one issue that they do not agree on: whether or not all human beings should have
~ 
l the same rights regardless of stage of 
i development. The pro-life side believes that all human beings should have the same rights. The pro .. choice'' side believes that it is up to them to choose whose life has value. And if your life has no value to them, they pronounce you .. non-human.. or not a .. person!' 
We believe that all human beings should 

have the same rights regardless of stage of 
development. What do you believe? 


WHEN THEY 
TELLYOU THAT 
ABORTION 

IS A MAlTER 
JUST BETWEEN 
AWOMAN 



AND HER DOCIDR 
The incredible photograph abo1'e by Dr. Rainer Jonas shows whar a healrhv, aclive intrauterine child looks like atl9 ;.,eeks. Like the bud ofa flower, beautiful. But, unforrunate(v still a candidatefor elective abortion. 
There are alternatives to abortion. There have to be. 

Copynght ©1983 Pt'tt'r D Erlund 

I If ~o; b;ie~ ;at-A~ -;u~n ~e;gs-s~ul; h:ve-th; s;m;-ri;ts­1 regardless of stage of development, we need your help. Not only are pro-abortion views promoted on a daily basis by the media, but the pro-life1 position is regularly ignored or misrepresented. Your donation would help I us get the word to thousands of undecided Americans through ads like this 1 one. Most would be hearing the true position of TheHuman Rights for ALL 
Movement for the first time. Yes I want to help . 1 
1 Ad ($386) _ $50 Name 
I Address 1 $1/2 Ad ($193) _ $25 __ 
I $100 Other __ St. Joseph County Right to Life 
II would like to receive a copy of the 320 N. Layfayette 1monthly Newsletter. Yes_ No_ South Bend, IN 46601 
...... --------------------­


No, We Believe That All Human Beings Should Have the Same Rights 
-~~---~---------------------~--------~------~---~ 
Friday, September 9, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 
Bosnians celebrate mass without Pope 
By ClARE NULLIS Associated Press 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia­
Herzegovina 

Tearful and angry faithful gathered at Sarajevo's cathe­dral Thursday for a Mass left hollow by the absence of the pope, as John Paul II, grounded in Italy by.security fears, called on Serbs, Croats and Muslims to forgive. 
The Vatican this week called off a one-day visit to the Bosnian capital planned for Thursday, saying the pope feared for the safety of the crowds that would have turned out to see him and worried that his pilgrimage could aggravate tensions in the besieged city. 
The pope addressed the peo­ple of Sarajevo on radio and television and delivered the same sermon he had planned to give if he had been present in the Bosnian capital. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Weekly Illustrators Daily Cartoonist Weekly Political Cartoonist 
Interested persons should be able to work on a daily or weekly basis for the fall semister. For further information call Art Manager Garrett Gray at x1771. 
page7 


Conference reaches agreement 
By EDITH LEDERER Associated Press 
CAIRO, Egypt 
With anger growing over the Vatican's hard-line stance on abortion, negotiators at the 
U.N. population confe~ence Thursday hammered out what they called a last-chance com­promise on the explosive issue. 
A special committee assigned to write the provision on unsafe abortions agreed on a compromise text Thursday night. The main negotiating committee was expected to consider the new language on Friday. 
But even if the compromise succeeds, the controversy at the conference won't end be­cause negotiators still face other contentious provisions of the meeting's 20-year action plan. 
The main committee is ex­
pected to consider sections on 
reproductive and sexual health 
on Friday that refer to "fertili­
ty regulation" -a phrase the 
Vatican views as a code word 
for abortion -and adolescent 
sexuality. 
To address the concerns of 
some nations on Thursday, the ·world Health Organization's definition of unsafe abortion was added to the section on abortion as a health issue. That definition says abortion is unsafe if carried out by unqualified people in inappro­
priate settings. 
To show how minutely the 
wording has been worked 
over, a new draft of the pro­
posed compromise changes 
"legal" abortion -which the 
Vatican opposed-to abortion 
that "is not against the law." 
Earlier Thursday, Nicolaas 
Biegman, vice-chairman of the 
overall negotiations, said he 
was confident the special com­
mittee on unsafe abortion 
would "very, very quickly" ar­
rive at a final compromise text. 
"As far as I am concerned, 
(this) will be the end of the dis­
cussion in the committee be­
cause anything which could 
possibly be accommodated has 
been accommodated," he said. 
Timothy Wirth, the U.S. un­
dersecretary of state for global 
affairs, told reporters 
Thursday night: "We're very 
close to getting finished.... I 
expect we will get through the 
abortion issue tomorrow 
morning and it will be down­
hill from there." 
The Vatican delegation said 
it was pondering how to react 
to the compromise, but sug­
gested it may have a problem 
with the phrase "safe abor­
tion" because abortion is 
"unsafe" for the fetus. 
The conference's plan of ac­
tion does not require the blan­
ket approval of all partici­
pants, and the Vatican did not 
approve documents that came 
out of the two previous U.N. 
conferences in 197 4 and 1984. 
But great effort is being 
made to reach compromise 
because the United Nations 
likes consensus when issuing 
long-term goals. 
The compromise drafted on 
Thursday is a revision of the 
version put forward earlier 
this week by the European 
Union and backed by the 
United States, Nordic nations 
and several Muslim countries 
including Iran and Pakistan. 

"The spiral of 'wrongs' and 'punishments' will never stop if forgiveness does not come at a certain point," he said. "To for­give does not mean to forget. If memory is the law of history, forgiveness is the power of God." 
Matilda Sagolj said she cried when she heard the pope's words in Serbo-Croatian, broadcast from the courtyard of his summer residence in Castel Gandolfo, near Rome. 
"I am sorry, I am so sorry," she said, breaking into tears again, "His arrival meant al­most everything to me, and now I feel terrible." 
A papal envoy, Monsignor Francesco Monterisi, said in Sarajevo that the pope still hoped to visit "in one of the next few days, in the near-fu­ture." But with security still a nightmare, it was unclear what would make the pontiff change his mind. 

-----------~~--------­page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 9, 1994 

......... ---­

Friday, September 9, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 9 

Crown heights retrial will be public 
By RICHARD PYLE racial disturbance will be open 
Associated Press to the public even if he is tried as a juvenile, a judge ruled NEW YORK Thursday. The federal trial of a teen­
ager charged in the death of a "In light of the fact that this 
Jewish scholar during a 1991 case has had enormous public-
Give the Gift ofTradition 
Limited Edition Handcolored Prints by 
Ken David 


O'Hara Room LaFortune September 9 & 10 9:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. 

ity, most of the arguments that one would normally hear for closure strike me as not being very relevant here," U.S. Dis­trict Judge David G. Trager said. 
Trager postponed decisions on whether to try Lemrick Nel­son as an adult, and whether to remove himself from the case over what defense lawyers say is a conflict of interest. 
Nelson is charged with violat­ing the civil rights of Yanke! Rosenbaum, a Jewish scholar of the ultra-Orthodox Lubav­itcher sect who was stabbed to death by members of a black mob during racial disturbances in Brooklyn's Crown Heights section in August 1991. 
The violence was set off by the death of a 7 -year-old black boy, Gavin Cato, who was struck by a car traveling in a motorcade of Lubavitchers. 
Nelson, then 16, was charged with the murder but acquitted by a state court jury. Under pressure from members of the Jewish community and Brook­lyn District Attorney Charles J. Hynes, U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno decided earlier this year to try him again under federal civil rights laws. 
Because federal law defines juveniles as under 18 -it's 16 under state law -the court must decide whether to try Nel­son as a juvenile or an adult. 
recovered remains believed !o ))~long~~o. a p,s. Marine who. died il'ni captivity ht Quan.g Ng@ Province, once pan of South Vietnam, 325 
'miles northeast of Ho Chi · City;fotmerlySaigon..... . ni~lcn·uArv· was seen as'· aktlllroiiuzh by u.s;· offi, · · Hanf)i, who are stigating 84 cases of 
Americans missing in action from the war. 
"I'm excit~l,i by it, J'm hopeful," said Army Lt. Col. Melvin Richmond Jr.. head C>f the U.S. MIA Office in 
. "It's an important 
United States handed . e . &4;,,, ''special cases'' to the · a year ago, but be~n solved up 

TI calculators work harder. To help you work smarter. 


..TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
IIon the campus II Open Monday-Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. Special Hours Football Weekends! Friday 9 a.m. -7 p.m. Saturday 8 a.m. -6 p.m.
BA !I PLUS is a trademark oiTexas lnsrruments Incorporated. ©1992 Texas Instruments Incorporated 


Protestant extremists unwilling to cease-fire 
By ROBERT BARR 
Associated Press 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland 

Protestant extremists said Thursday they won't lay down their arms until they are con­vinced an IRA cease-flre is real and Britain and Ireland reveal their plan for Northern Ire­land's future. 
The demand to flrst see the details of the "framework doc­ument" being negotiated by London and Dublin effectively put any cease-fire on the Protestant side a month or more away. 
"Change, if any, can only be honorable after dialogue and agreement," said a statement from the Combined Loyalist Military Command, an umbrella group for outlawed Protestant paramilitary groups. "It is im­portant that patience is shown to this body given the gravity of the debate required." 
The British and Irish gov­ernments missed their July tar­get for flnishing a proposal for restoring a degree of self-gov­ernment to Northern Ireland. Prime Minister John Major's office said Thursday the two governments hoped to complete the proposal sometime in the autumn. 
The framework would then be subject to negotiations among all parties in Northern Ireland. 
The Belfast Telegraph, citing unidentified sources, reported Thursday that the proposal would call for an elected, 85­member assembly in Northern Ireland, with elected lawmak­ers replacing British ministers in executive positions. Major's office declined to comment on 

the report. was abolished by Prime Minster majority Protestants and Northern Ireland had its own Edward Heath's government as minority Roman Catholics parliament until 1972, when it strife between the province's worsened. 
CATCH THE SPIRIT! 
"The true spirit ofNotre Dame is captured in the commitment to faith and humanity... " 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. Catch the sp1nt of the 1995 President, University ofNotre Dame Datebook, "The Spirit of Notre Dame." This high quality 7,1/4 x 9,1/2 inch weekly planner captures the physical beauty of Notre Dame's campus through 52 black and white photographs. Each week, the Datebook's scenic pictures will bring Notre Dame, its memories, and unique spirit home to you! The Datebook also conveys the 

Friday, September 9, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 11 
• SECURITY BEAT MON., Sept. 6th 
1:03 a.m. An off-campus student report­ed the theft of his bike from the west side of the Hesburgh Library. 
11 :42 a.m. A Fischer Graduate Housing resident reported the theft of his bike from the Debartolo bike rack. 
12:32 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from the Flanner Hall bike rack. 
TUES., Sept. 7th 

11 a.m. Security officers apprehended a suspicious person by the Fieldhouse Mall. The man was identified, ques­tioned, and escorted off campus by Se­curity. 
6:02 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of injuries sustained during a fall. 
11:26 p.m. An off-campus student re­ported two suspicious males on Courtney Lane. 
WED., Sept. 8th 
7:35 p.m. Security apprehended a South Bend resident riding a stolen bike which belonged to a University Village resident. 
10:41 a.m. Security arrested a South Bend resident for trespassing on Univer­sity property. 
4 p.m Security responded to a car/pedestrian accident on Juniper Road. The pedestrian was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of minor injuries. 
9:47 p.m. A Howard Hall resident re­ported receiving harassing phone calls. 

Quayle's new target: Fathers 
By DARA AKIKO TOM 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 

Dan Quayle, testing the wa­ters for a 1996 presidential bid, returned Thursday to the scene of his Murphy Brown comments to hammer away again on fam­ily values. This time he took on fathers. 
Speaking to the Common­wealth Club of California, the former vice president said he still believes the woes of Amer­ica are largely due to the dete­rioration of two-parent fami­lies. 
"Too often fathers walk away from their children, or worse yet, they don't even know who their children are," Quayle said to the luncheon crowd of about 1,000. "Raising a child is not just a mother's responsibility." 
President Bush's former side­kick said he will wait until after the November elections before deciding whether to seek the Republican presidential nomi­nation. 
In his speech, Quayle said he couldn't understand the con­troversy he sparked in 1992 when he criticized the fictitious Brown, a successful TV news reporter who decided to have a child out of wedlock. He told the Commonwealth Club at the time that Brown mocked "the importance of fathers by bear­ing a child alone, and calling it just another lifestyle choice." 
"What I was talking about then and what I am reiterating today is the importance of fa­thers," he said, "Especially for youngsters who don't come into the world with a stock portfolio and a reserved place at an Ivy League University." 
Quayle, who attended De­Pauw University and Indiana University Law School, said that times have changed from the "peace and prosperity in the 1950s, through the 'if-it­feels-good, do-it,' 1960s, to the 'me generation' of the 1970s and then to the 'values-free zone' ofthe '80s and '90s." 
"This cavalier attitude toward values is felt most painfully in 
Ct-IOPSTJCKS 
CHINESE FAST FOOD We Deliver to your dorm! Mon-Thurs 11a.m. -9p.m. Fri. & Sat. 11a.m. -1 Op.m. 
East Location: $6 minimum 525 N. Eddy St. 

$1 service charge for South Bend, IN orders under $15 232-1177 

fatherless families,'' he said. 

Welfare reform, tax incen­tives for married couples and better entertainment and
~~asyli,~t~ 
sports role models would help rebuild America's families, Quayle said. 
Super Saver Prices on Roses 
"If children grow up never Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, 
knowing their father. they're bound to assume that fathers
Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
are irrelevant, and that males
Clocktower Square 
are not accountable," Quayle
51400 31 North 
said.

(219)277-1291
South Bend, IN 46637 
after the pep rally tonight, come to Stonehenge for some funky Russian folk tunes ... 
*LIMPOPO*
* *is coming * 
where: fieldhouse mall (stonehenge) 
when: friday after the 
peprally * 
* 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 



page 12 
Cars 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame took their car to the Indianapolis 500 at the end of May to make a demo run. The throttle in the car stuck and the driver, a professional named Mark Folkert, had to run the car into a side rail to stop. 
Folkert was safe, but the car 

was nearly totaled. 
So beginning June 1, 10 un­
dergrads worked day and night 
for the next month to prepare 
the car for the July 6 Cleveland 
race. They left South Bend at 
Midnight, July 6, and made it 
on time for pre-race registra­
tion. 
After the test run, the team 
discovered transmission prob­
lems on the car, Barry said. 
The crew corrected the prob­
lem by race time, and were re­
warded with the checkered 
flag. 
"I have a lot of respect for 
these students," Barry said. 
"They really came together-it 
was super." 
For winning the Cleveland race, Notre Dame received $5,000 in scholarship money. They also gave the city of Cleveland a glimpse of what auto racing in the future may be like. 
"We really surprised a lot of people in Cleveland," said Patrick Wolf, a senior electrical engineering major and member of the Irish Racing Team. "It was the quietest race they've ever heard. With electric race cars you have a low hum, so you can sit and talk to whoever is sitting next to you instead of screaming." 
Now that the brief racing sea­son is over, the Irish Racing Team is running into more problems. 
"Well up to now the Athletic 
Funny Business Presents 
II 
I 
I 
MYSTERIES 
ON~ CAMPUS 
America's Favorite 
WHO DONE IT? 100% Audience Participation Show 
WIN CASH PRIZES T-SHIRTS SQUIRT GUNS 
Don't Miss All The Fun And Excitement 

ll lllJill)l~ll IS lliJ()(J'l, '1,() lllli1 11 1~N ••• 
l\rDI~Ill~: l\TDJ~N:  Sll(~ (~J..IJIIII()IJSI~ Sl~l1 'l,I~)IIJI~Il ILl'l'H ll'l, 7:()() P.tl.  
N  

The Observer • NEWS 
Department has let us store the car in the football stadium, but now they need that space," Barry said. "We've had to go looking all over campus, and thankfully Campus Security has given us some space." 
Irish Racing has also received countless volunteer hours and services from Surrey Motor Sports of Niles, Michigan, while Gurley-Leep of South Bend was willing to donate a truck to the team for pulling their trailer. 
On the other hand, the team is having fun using its creativity in a continuing effort to make design improvements on the car. 
"One thing we got to do at the races was to look around and see what everybody else was up to," Wolf said. ''I'm working on 

Where your family can have 
Fun, Fun, Fun! 


Fun Pa11 
Look at what one per1on gel1••• 
• 2 Rounds of Miniature Golf 
•1 Gameof~ 

• 
A slice of Putter's Fresh-made Pizza and a Small Drink 

•1 Ride on the ~aCw--'-' • 1 0 Game tokens 

When purchased $14.95 value Your Everyday Low Price 
only $1 0·,~,~.. 
Town & Country
Hours 

Shopping Center 
Mon-Thurs 10-10 

2500 Miracle Lane Fri-Sat 10-11 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 
Sunday 1-10 

the car with another guy for 
our senior design project. Right 
now we've got a handful of 
ideas we want to implement be­
fore the upcoming races this 
spring." 
Areas of improvement include a system to better monitor the car's power supply , testing dif­ferent wheel greases and creat­ing a diagnostic package so all the car's systems can be watched, Barry said. 
The Irish have four races ten­tatively set for next spring and summer -Phoenix, Long Beach, Detroit and Cleveland. Funding is the sole reason the races are tentative, Barry said. 
But for now, the buzz of the racing team's brain power is hoping to make the car's elec­tric hum sing a little more cleanly. 
(219)254-01 00 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
8 O·A H·D 
1
')A •• ',I 4 J: I '·I 
~ol,t.~r 

Friday,September 9, 1994 
+-lave somethi"'9 to say? Use 
Obse~ve~ 
classifieds. 
Kamm's Island Inn 
Relax on Private Balconies Overlooking The St. Joe River 
KITCHENETTES IN ALL ROOMS LOCATED IN THE HISTORIC 100 CENTER, FEATURING RESTAURANTS, THEATRES, ANTIQUES, UNIQUE SHOPPING 
100 Center 

e 
Mishawaka, IN 
256..1501 


HOURS: 
Mon-Sat Sam -1 Opm Sunday 11 am -1 Opm 
LOOK FOR OUR COUPONS EVERY FRIDAY IN THE OBSERVER 
SOC OFF: 


~ ~ YOUR NEXT • 
' -WAFFLE CONE! . . ' ~ 
~~ .... (MEDIUM OR LARGE • • -.: SOFT SERVE ONLY) 
Offer good Ollt( at the 11001 lsted Col.pon not IICllld with OOf oth&f ot1er. &p.9f30/94 
CAMPUS SHQPPES • 1837 South BeJ\Ct:-Ave. ; 
® 



-----------------~~----------------~­
-~-------~-------------~-------­
BUSINESS 
Friday, September 9, 1994 page 13 
China trade mission meets resistance 
Kmart announces shutdowns 
Associated Press 
TROY, Mich. 

Kmart Corp. announced today it will close 110 discount stores nationwide that are fail­ing to meet financial goals, eliminating 6,000 jobs, and cut its management force by 10 percent. 
The stores are in 30 states and will be closed by February 1995, Chairman Joseph Antonini said. The closings rep­resent 4. 7 percent of its 2,350 discount stores nationwide. 
The cuts in the management work force -a total of 2,300 jobs -will be made over two years, including 650 store man­agers who will lose their jobs immediately as a result of the store closings. Kmart Corp. employs about 260,000 people. 
"Kmart conducted an assess­ment of our core discount stores to identify which stores were not meeting our return­on-investment requirements," Antonini said. "Going forward with our renewal, we will insist that our stores fully meet our return-on-investment require­ments." 
Antonini broadcast the 
announcement to its discount 
stores nationwide at 8:30 a.m. 
Eastern today. 
The managers of the stores being shut down were notified of the decision earlier this morning in meetings with Kmart executives, spokes­ing of two executives to shore But he added, "Much remains woman Shawn Kahle said. 
up the company's Super Kmart to be done." 
Antonini also said Kmart will Center and information systems Earlier this year, Kmart hadbegin consolidating and hiring departments. said it would close 150 storesoutside the company for some 
Antonini said the closings over a six-year period that
administrative functions at 
"represent strong steps toward began in 1990. Eight storesTroy headquarters sometime in focusing on the core U.S. Kmart have been closed so far this1995. 
business." year and about 60 before 1994. 
Other moves include the hir-

Businesses plan investment boost 
By JAMES RUBIN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Despite higher interest rates and signs of a slowing econo­my, American businesses remain optimistic and expect to modernize and expand this year at the highest rate in five years. 
Some 5,000 businesses ques­tioned by the government said they plan to increase invest­ments in new building and equipment by 8.8 percent this year -revised upward from a projection three months ago, the Commerce Department said Thursday. 
The businesses, surveyed in July and August, said they would spend $638 billion this year compared to $587 billion last year. The outlays are for constructing and modernizing buildings, installing new com­puters and upgrading other equipment and machinery. 
Meanwhile, the Labor Department said the number of initial claims for state unem­ployment benefits declined a modest 3,000 last week. First­time claims totaled a seasonally adjusted 330,000 in the week ended Sept. 3, down from a revised 333,000 in the previous week. 
If the 1994 business spending plans are realized, it would be the biggest jump in capital investment since an 11.4 per­cent increase in 1989. In June, the government survey project­ed an 8.3 percent rise in invest­ment spending this year. Business investment rose 7.3 percent last year. 

• MARKET ROUNDUP 
September 8, 1994 II 3908 46 1---"'--+-'-'-----'-'-~ Highest close
I I ' ;• +22.21 January 3/, /994 3,978.36
II. 
/  H  
..  Jl  
hr'\.  -I  \...;rJU  
"'  ...,_J v  
V1  1,-1  


393e 
sa1e 
ss1e 
375e 369e 
ssse 

357e )/1/94 7/1/94 8/1/94 9/1/94 10/1/94 
By TERRIL JONES 
Associated Press 
PARIS 

Insulated by a police ban on anti-Beijing protests, Chinese President Jiang Zemin began a five-day visit to France on Thursday in which he is expect­ed to seal billions of dollars worth of trade agreements. 
The Committee to Save Tibetan People and Culture vowed to defy the ban on demonstrations. "Commercial concerns are being put above all considerations of justice and solidarity for a forgotten peo­ple," it said in a statement. 
The group urged people to join a wreath-laying ceremony to protest Jiang's visit. It called him "a Santa Claus who flashes juicy commercial contracts but whose sack overflows with cadavers." 
The committee opposes China's 35-year occupation of Tibet and what it claims is bru­tal treatment of Tibetans. 
Regional police in Marseille, Jiang's arrival point, banned the committee's demonstration, saying it might "disrupt public order and harm Franco­Chinese relations." 
Authorities also banned a protest planned by human rights and democracy activists for Jiang's arrival in Paris on Friday, but organizers of that rally have said they also may defy the ban. 
Organizers must obtain per­mits for demonstrations. While the right to demonstrate is pro­tected by the constitution, French authorities sometimes prohibit demonstrations, and even public meetings, on the grounds that they could disturb public order. In the past, rallies by Kurds and the far-right National Front have been banned. 
Jiang, secretary-general of the Chinese Communist Party, arrived in Marseille after state visits to Russia and Ukraine. His official visit begins Friday when he will be welcomed to Paris by President Francois Mitterrand. 
His visit caps a rapid warm­ing of relations between Paris and Beijing that began in January, when France said it would end arms sales to Taiwan, seat of the rival Nationalist Chinese govern­ment. China's foreign minister visited Paris in January; Prime Minister Edouard Balladur went to China in April. 
French and Chinese officials signed contracts in Paris on Wednesday worth $472 million, and Jiang is to sign another $3 billion in accords Saturday. 
While the French government clearly wants to focus on eco­nomic issues with Jiang, activist groups are targeting China's human rights record. 
The New York-based group Human Rights in China sent a letter to Mitterrand asking him to express concern over China's human rights record. 
After its bloody crackdown ended the 1989 pro-democracy movement in Beijing, the Chinese government yielded to pressure from France and other nations and loosened some controls on dissent, the letter said. 

Blinder defends views on Fed 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Alan Blinder, the No. 2 offi­cial at the Federal Reserve, insisted Thursday that he has no serious disagreements with Chairman Alan Greenspan over the central bank's interest-rate policies. 
But some private economists said Blinder's comments would do little to dispel the impression that he will not be as tough an iriflation-fighter as Greenspan. 
Blinder used a scheduled appearance before the Mortgage Bankers Association to dispute news reports that he had publicly challenged Greenspan's views on inflation during a Fed-sponsored confer­ence last month in Jackson Hole, Wyo. 
"There is no rift between the chairman of the Federal Reserve and myself," said Blinder. a former Princeton University professor who served as a member of the administra­tion's Council of Economic Advisers before being picked earlier this year by President Clinton to be vice chairman of the Fed. 
"I don't want to retract any­thing I said. I want to state what I actually did say," Blinder told the Mortgage Bankers Association, asserting that his comments had been taken out of context in some news reports. 
In his Wyoming comments, Blinder had said that a central bank "should have a short-run employment objective in addi­tion to its inflation objective." 
Blinder said Thursday that he was stating nothing more than is required by the congressional law under which the Fed oper­ates. That 1978 law directs the central bank to consider both the short-run impact of its poli­cies on unemployment and the long-run effects those policies will have on inflation. 
But Greenspan has in fact come out in favor of legislation that would make eliminating inflation the Fed's sole mission. He contends pursuit of this goal will over the long term foster the greatest growth in the econ­omy and the lowest unemploy­ment rates. 
Asked later by reporters whether he also supported such a change, Blinder said he did not. He said he felt it was appropriate for the Fed to be worried both about the impact its policies can have on unem­ployment rates in the short run and inflation in the long run. 
But he insisted that he and Greenspan essentially support the same goals. 
"I don't believe there are cur­rently any operational differ­ences" among Fed policy-mak­ers, he said . 


WASHINGTON of initial 
a 
idled by summer returned to the~r 

VIEWPOINT 
page 14 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

New. Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­lion of either inslirulion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­mrials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Edimr, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the vi~ of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and 10 all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Inforrna lion  631-4541 631-4543 631-5323 631-4540 631-5303 631-7471  Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-BB39 Office Manager 631-7471 Fax 631-6927 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Unix observer@grumpy .helios.nd.edu  
• Poco APoco  

The heartfelt challenge of embracing a new life 

There are simply some experiences that no one can prepare you for. Your first kiss. A brush with death. The first week as a college student. There are some feelings so overwhelmingly new that, no matter how thorough the orien­tation program, you are simply unpre­pared. The minute our plane touched ground in Mexico City, all of our training flew out the window. It was almost as if our last four weeks of preparation had never happened. 
Meredith McCullough 


The three of us looked at each other, surprised by this realization. We laughed nervously and gathered up our belongings for departure. 
Leaving the comfort of the plane for a world of unknowns, our thoughts dart­ed back and forth between "What in God's name have we gotten ourselves into" to "Hey! Is this going to be a cool adventure or what?!" 
We were about to fmd out ... 
A year ago I would never have guessed that upon graduation from Notre Dame I would find myself in Cuernavaca, Mexico struggling to learn Spanish. And yet, I have been here a week now doing just that-struggling like crazy with fellow 1994 ND gradu­ates Katie Bergin and Scott Curtis. 
But our stay in Cuernavaca is just the beginning. 
In three months, a similar plane ride will drop us into yet another world of still more unknowns. In three months, we will journey to Santiago, Chile where we will live and work for the next two years, volunteering as Holy Cross Associates. 
Getting to this point was a long, ardu­ous process; but at the same time, it all seems to have happened so quickly. 
Somewhere between working for The Observer news department, studying for final exams in government and eco­nomics, enjoying my last few months as a college senior and trying to answer the minor question-"What am I going to do with the rest of my life?"-1 somehow became a Catholic lay missionary. 
Honestly, the title scares me. 

I had never before pictured myself in such a capacity. As a writer, sure. As a policy-maker, why not? As a teacher, maybe. But as a Catholic lay mission­ary? No, it never crossed my mind. 
Katie, Scott, and I have quickly discov­ered that there is no concrete job description for this line of work. Here in Mexico. the objective is clearly identi­fied: learn Spanish from scratch or die trying. But what about Chile? What about this mission thing? 
Chilean Associates are teachers. They are community organizers. They work in an orphanage. They play with chil­dren and run CCD classes. Associates work in the parish and in the communi­ty. They visit the sick and the elderly. They build houses. They listen. They work, live and play side by side with Chileans. Most are friends and compan­ions with those around them. 
It is easier for me to understand lay mission in terms of such imagery. I can actually picture myself in a number of these positions. Doing so gives me something concrete to tell people when they innocently ask what "exactly" I am doing in Chile. 
Although we are three very different people, it is easy for me to imagine Katie and Scott in these roles too. 
We each bring different gifts to Chile. Different interests. Different family backgrounds. Different approaches to life in general. Our experiences over the next few years will naturally be colored by these differences. 
But there is a certain continuity too. For all of our differences, the three of us hold onto the same hope that this is not simply a two-year commitment, but an opportunity to integrate the experience into our lives in the US-whether that life is one of a writer or government agent, of a social minister and theology scholar, or of a secondary school math­teacher and basketball coach. 
What is the attraction? 
Perhaps it is a basic interest in experi­encing another culture and language that brings us here. Perhaps it is the preference for a faith-based service pro­gram with an emphasis on an active, supportive community. Maybe it is an attempt to live simply or an attraction to a better understanding of the poor in our society. Maybe it is merely a desire to continue our education. It could be an experiment in self-growth or a call for adventure. Or a call from God. 
There have been days where I have felt in my bones that for all these rea­sons and more, volunteering in Chile is what I should be-and must be-doing. 
' In trying to answer the minor 
question-"What am I going to do with the rest of my life?"­1somehow became a Catholic lay missionary.' 
At this time in my life this is just right for me. On days like this, everything is clear and I know that any pain I feel or any pain I cause my family and friends will pass and that things cannot help but work out as they should for all of us. 
Still, a few days later I might wake in a cold sweat. Who am I kidding? What am I trying to prove? Do my family and friends know that because I have chosen this experience in Chile does not mean that I love them any less. Why there? 
Friday, September 9, 1994 
Why now? Why? Why am I making such a big deal about this? 
And in this time of questioning, I find comfort in the people around me. In Katie and Scott are two people who have the same questions and doubts, but who are also strong in their faith and have a tremendous love of life. In the example of and encouragement from Holy Cross Associates who are doing similar work in Arizona, California, Colorado, Massachusetts, and Oregon-perhaps even harder work because it is in areas so familiar to them. And in my family and close friends who may not have cho­sen to do two years of direct service, but who live quality lives of service every day. 
As part of my commitment to HCA and to The Observer, I have agreed to share our experiences in Mexico and Chile as often as possible. This could mean shar­ing observations, theses, discussions, controversies or general impressions that come up over the next two years. I am grateful for this opportunity as Notre Dame has played such a huge role in bringing me to Chile in the first place. 
A week has passed since our plane first touched down in Mexico City. In that short time a new world has opened up to us. We have moved in with Mexican families. We have begun to learn Spanish "poco a poco." We have become familiar with the streets, delighting in new sights, sounds, colors, aromas and wonderful people around us. 
Tonight I lie on my bed and listen to the city-dogs barking, children laughing, and fireworks exploding at a nearby fair. Tonight it is okay that there is still so much we do not know or understand. Tonight it is okay that the future unfolds at its own pace. Tonight I am content. 
Meredith McCullough. '94, is a Holy Cross Associate based in Santiago, Chile. Her column, Poco a Poco. appears monthly. 
• Domu:ssunv GARRY TRUDEAU 
YOU 
AAV&A 
5lk3Gts· T/ON"? 
\ 
Y/3. 5/R. !N'57EAIJOF TKYIN67VHOWON 7VOURFAPING IIJ&N­TI7YA~ A C0/..1.83£, WHY fXJN'TWti?EP05!­
TIONWRSUVCSA? AaMANOINGHI6H tj()/(X}[_~ I 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''winning isn't every­thing, but wanting to win is." 
-Vince Lbmbardi 
Friday, September 9, 1994 page 15
VIEWPOINT 

Women in Mass stir controversy 
Only men represent Christ Forget gender in lieu of celebrating Catholicism 
Dear Editor, that the exclusion of women those moments, it is Christ who 
A recent letter in the Observer from the priesthood is another is speaking and acting through 
Dear Editor:
from John Houck referred to the similar example. the priest. The meeting of the We are writing to express our surprise over Professor Houck's issue of whether women should Our Church teaches that the human and divine natures in letter on September 6. We are appalled at the ideas expressed receive priestly ordination in the priesthood is different. Why? Is Jesus Christ is essential to our by a faculty member here at Notre Dame. The questionCatholic Church. Through "faith it that a woman can't be a prop­faith as Christians. The priest Professor Houck deems "profound" is utterly ridiculous. As anseeking understanding", I have er model of holiness? Obviously must represent Christ -who is integral part of every Catholic's life and spirituality, there is notdiscovered that there are gen­not. The greatest model of holi­inseparably God and man -in a more appropriate way to begin the school year than with auine reasons why the Catholic ness put before all Catholics is a His divinity and in His humanity. 
mass.
Church has taught that only men woman: The Virgin Mary. It is therefore fitting that the To further refer to the Mass as a "direct attack on the ability,may be ordained to the priest­Does a woman lack the status priest also be a man. 
status, commitment, and concern of our women colleagues,hood. I will attempt to present to be socially accepted as a fig­Although it may not be the staff, and students" is unquestionably ignorant. As women, stu­some reasons that are sensible ure of authority? The answer is only or best way to understand dents, and Catholic, we are both offended by this statement.
to me. no. Women are equal in dignity the Church's teaching on this The Mass is a celebration for a community of believers, and notIn the face of the past to men. Christ was not afraid to matter, it makes sense to me. 
an opportunity for the Church to persecute women. Sadly, itdiscrimination, the frustration of proclaim it to the people of his I refer the reader who wishes seems Professor Houck is so preoccupied with this so-calledthose who think it is "unjust" time. The Popes never tire of to pursue this question further prejedice against women that he overlooks the importance ofthat we women may not be repeating that oppression of to the encyclical: "On the Dignity the Mass and suggests that it is unfit for a co-educationalordained is understandable. women is a grave offense. and Vocation of Women". 
Catholic university. 
There is nothing about being a The essential task of a priest is 
FRAN MALONEY 
Freshman Badin Hall 
Pray past feminism 
Dear Editor: I would like to suggest to 
Professor Houck admits in Professor Houck that the his letter of Sept. 6, 1994 that opening Mass is a time to wor­Pope John Paul II's pro­ship our Lord as a community. claimed open status for The purpose of the Mass is to women in the Catholic Church receive and celebrate the (referring to women becoming sacrament of the Eucharist, priests) is "non-debatable." not to make an ideological He then asks if Notre Dame's stand. I think it would be opening day Mass, with 50 or quite beneficial for all those 60 male priests, is an appro­who disagree with Pope John priate ceremony. Paul II to examine the reasons 
I, for one, do not think that behind his statements. We the fact that priests are male must give him the respect he is a hindrance in my ability to deserves by carefully reading worship God. I think it would his opinions and un­be highly inappropriate for a derstanding the foundations Roman Catholic university to for them. Reading the subject itself to the personal "Catechism of the Catholic feelings that its constituents Church" would be a good have about feminism. The start. University is Roman Catholic, SUSAN SCHUDT and thus subject to the au­Graduate Student in Chemistry and thority of the Roman Catholic Biochemistry Church and the Pope. Off-Campus 
Irish cheerleaders: The real pioneer women 
A generation ago, Notre Dame was Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students interspersed with "Gimme an I" and new seating arrangements. Arriving preparing for co-education, taking that would receive general admission, open­other traditional football cheers. early to stake out seats in the front row first important step towards welcoming seating tickets to a unified student sec­But now there were to be girls on the by the cheerleaders, the Vikings raised women into the academic and social tion. squad. Not women; we never spoke of constructive hell throughout the game. world under the Dome. And, on the field, would be a cheer­women. Our mothers were women, and "The first game, you could hear a pin 
It was 25 years ago this fall that the leading squad made up of Notre Dame the new cheerleaders were not going to drop," Sherman recalls. "It was becom­administration took a bold move to pro­and Saint May's students. be our mothers. They were going to be ing a social event; guys were more into vide the one, crucial thing Father Sarin's Do not mistake this for a small college girls. their dates than the game. We resolved vision had somehow failed to establish: change. Notre Dame's cheering squad, They were also going to be pioneers. not to let student spirit die: Our motto female cheerleaders. like those of the military academies, was Four women were chosen, all experi­was, 'Bring Barbarism Back to Notre 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's had a throwback to the Thirties: clean-cut enced cheerleaders. But Terri Buck Dame!" been slouching reluctantly towards the 
Lewallen says the competition would They brought back barbarism-cer­altar for several years. They allowed have been tougher, if it hadn't been the tainly the administration was unhappy students to take courses on each other's Sixties. "Cheerleading was considered with them-but they also made common campuses, consolidated the theater kind of disgusting in those days," she cause with the new cheerleaders. The
Pete 

department and cooperated on overseas recalls. "People said, 'How can you be Vikings led crazy, "Boom-shakalakala­and other programs. doing this when people are dying?"' ka" cheers, the sensual "Go-go, get'em, But, by the fall of 1969, merger talks The four-Stringer and Buck, together ooo! ah!" and the drawn-out, ritual invo­
Peterson 

had reached the point where women with Missy McCrary and Molly Tiernan­cation "Odin!" from the stands, while entering Saint Mary's expected the had to be willing to lead cheers, and to the cheerleaders were required to play graduate form Notre Dame. Saint take grief, but only as much grief as the it straight. But the Vikings had adopted Mary's Class of 1973 was double the size Beyond Freedom Rock administration was willing to see them the cheerleaders, and, by the end of the of previous classes, a step towards rais­take. "We were warned by Father season, the gonzo mystique of the unof­ing the ratio of men to women from 7 to young men in sweaters using mega­MacCarragher the spring before that if ficial group was linked to the new look 1 to a planned 3 to 1. That class, it was phones to, well, to lead cheers. They did the student body didn't want it, we were of the on-field troupe. promised, would register for junior year not form pyramids or throw each other finished," says Annie Stringer Braly. And, too, by the end of the season, the classes under the Dome, although into the air and they most certainly did Initial response was positive enough to cheerleaders had rebelled and taken up women still would receive Saint Mary's not dance. They were cheerleaders in continue the innovation, but there were the raucous Viking cheers. Father diplomas unless their entire course load the classic sense. comments and incidents. In an early MacCarragher need not have worried: were taken across the street. "Let's bring them out of the huddle!" game, Buck was hit on the leg by an egg The students had accepted female 
It was time for a few gestures, and the head cheerleader would shout into thrown from the student section hard cheerleaders. while Notre Dame may pray over deci­the microphone he carried, and his dis­enough to draw blood and leave a There were far more serious bumps sions at the Grotto, it goes, it goes to a torted voice would come out of a bruise. ahead, on the road to co-education. But more important shrine when it is time to portable speaker aimed at the stands. Leave it to the macho atmosphere to more serious matters would have to make a splash. The other cheerleaders would cheer provide something of an answer: The wait, as they always must until after 
Saint Mary's had previously received a through their megaphones, and the Vikings were the brainchildren of Dillon football season. limited allotment of tickets in the corner crowd would cheer with them. "Here sophomores Rich Sherman and Mike Pete Peterson. '71, is Readership of the end zone, between the Irish fresh­we go, Irish, here we go," "Here come Murphy, football loyalists appalled by Services Manager at the Press­men and married students. Now, all the Irish," and "Block that kick!" were the tea-and-crumpets atmosphere of the Republican, in Plattsburgh. NY. 

page 16 The Observer • WEEKEND Friday, September 9, 1994 
Limpopo: first at ''The Loft'' 

By COLLEEN HAGEN the thought of giving some 
Music Critic young talent a try is not enough to entice you, think of another way.
Now that school is back in 
Headliner bands have to 

session, it is time for a little 
start somewhere. They do not "true or false" quiz. True or 

just appear at the top of the 

false: Good bands never play 
charts making millions. 

campus shows. FALSE. Tonight, Limpopo, a highly ac­

Tonight's featured band,

claimed Russian folk-rock Limpopo, call themselves a band will be appearing at "crazy Russian Folk'n' 
the Fieldhouse Mall 
Roll" band. Not onlyoutside LaFortune 

were they the win­

after the ners of Ed 
Michigan Pep 
McMahon's 

Rally. 
International Star 

Tonight's con-
Search, they also 

cert is the first in 
did a national 

a series of con­
commercial for 

certs sponsored 
the Kit Kat 

by Studen 
Candy Bar and a Union Board 

feature Documentary on 

and WVFI. The concert 
Santa Monica City T.V. 

series is called "The Loft," and will be running six times each semester. 
S.U.B. and WVFI plan to bring concerts featuring "new, national, independent music and campus talent." The names of these bands may not be heard on the radio multiple times each day, but this does not mean they do not have comparably impressive cre­dentials and talent. 
The idea for a regularly scheduled concert series was a move to spark some interest among the student body in a collegiate music scene, and the sounds being featured in "The Loft," series are up-and-coming in the music industry. In the past, the two campuses have complained that not enough big name, headline bands have ap­peared at Notre Dame. Members of S.U.B. report that the problem lies in getting stu­dents to come to a concert of band that they have not heard before. 
Even though the bands that will play are not yet listed on the Top 40 chart, they have made names for themselves. If 
Limpopo made an special ap­pearance for a welcoming re­ception for former Russian leader Mikhail Gorbachev and was an opening act for Stephen Stills. 
They appeared at the 1994 National Association of Campus Activities and performed at the Rocky Mountains Folk Festival, the Kerrville Folk Festival, The Just for Laughs Comedy Festival in Montreal, and the International Street Performers Festival. 
The guys in "Limpopo" have also been guests on four radio shows in the Los Angeles area. 
Igor Yusov, Oleg Bernov, Igor Khramov, and Yuri Fedorko are the four musicians that comprise Limpopo. They are not your typical Rock n' Roll band. Some of the instruments featured in their set are the guitar, balalaika, the upright bass, an enormous bass bal­alaika, a trombone, accordion, ankle bells, and all band mem­bers sing. 
Not all of Limpopo's set is music, however. They combine a mix of their jazz influences, pop influences, Russian folk music, and Russian rock and roll with a stage show. Their show was described by the Fort Worth Star Telegram as "a stomping, howling conglom­eration of gypsy wails, Volga boat songs and a fair sprinkling of schmaltzy western pop. The results...mesmerize musically and visually". 

Members of Limpopo moved to the United States in 1991 and relocated in the Los Angeles area. Their many influences led them to a hodge­podge of comedy, music and on stage antics. In an article that appeared in the Fort Worth Star Telegram in June of 1993 they said, "Don't try to describe our music, even we can't. And it's not only music, it's a whole sort of show." 
You can get a feel for the band's sense of humor if you translate their name. Limpopo is the name of the river in the Russian folk tale Doktor Aybolit, which is a version of the Dr. Doolittle story. As men­tioned in the Fort Worth Star Telegram, their name is a pun on a Soviet slang term for glu­teus maximus. 
To match Limpopo's creden­tials, at least four of the bands that will be featured in "The Loft" series are nationally rec­ognized. One of the bands, cub, has appeared on the College Music Journal's Top 150. Cub will be appearing on campus September 23 with the campus band, Roadapples opening for them. 
On October 7, the Windy City's own Smoking Popes will be performing with opening band Sweep the Leg Johnny. As cited by a S.U.B. and WVFI press release, their "aggressive pop style" gained them an opening slot at Chicago's Metro for Green Day. 
Remember the campus band 
CHISEL? Recently they re­
~emester. 1 h .rAf 71!,.· ~· ...... ~J 1,i6?
leased a 7" entitled "Sunburn" · · · The 1 ast s ow o tue semester · and they will appear at "The will be a three band spectacu-Loft" on November 5 to per­lar featuring Chicago's form some of their old material Trenchmouth, Columbus' and some new off of "Sunburn". Bumble Flea and opening the 
show will be the band July. 

On November 11, WVFI and 
S.U.B will present their "let us This semester, support new, inform you about our interest up-and-coming bands with the in going broadcast" night. The concert series at "The Loft." show is still in the process of The band you're seeing today being booked, so look for fur­may just be a legend twenty ther information later in the years from now. 
Fans to drown Michigan in sea of green 
By THERESA ALEMAN dent on campus. It is for sale Board and the Hall President's Hipp scholarship fund. Beeler and Gold Illustrated" and "Irish 
Accent Writer at the bookstore, and in a kelly Council. Again, it wa.' esti­and Hipp were two members of Sports Report." green color guaranteed to mated that 90 percent of the the Notre Dame women's swim While still expected to be a "Wake Up The Echoes." student body wore "The Shirt" team killed in a 1992 bus acci­huge money-making project,
While the Irish will be play­
"The Shirt '94" features the Proceeds from 1992 shirt dent. directors of the sale of "The 
ing Michigan this Saturday, 
Notre Dame football stadium, sales exploded to over Last year, sales of "The Shirt '94" attempted to place
they will most assuredly be 
Knute Rockne, the Gipper, and $200,000 when the project was Shirt" generated a reported the focus of "The Shirt" back 
sporting kelly green. That's 
the Four Horsemen riding expanded to include Notre $200,000 in revenues. A on the student body.
right, back for its fifth year, 
again, this time in the clouds. Dame Alumni and fans. record 53,000 shirts were sold. " 'The Shirt '94 is primarily"The Shirt" is all Irish, ever Sale of "The Shirt" has been Leaders of the project Again, 95 percent of the stu­for students. It is to show sup­popular, student inspired, and a student-run project since launched a national advertising dent body reportedly wore port, unity, and spirit amongit's everywhere. 
1990 when it began as a campaign which resulted in the "The Shirt" to the opening students at Notre Dame. It is Since 1990, the student body fundraiser for the AnTostal fes­sale of 41,000 shirts. home game. not strictly a project to make 
has traditionally worn "The 
tivities raising $25,000. Over Reportedly, 95 percent of the Over half of last year's funds money," said Kristi Broderick,Shirt" to the first home football 10,000 shirts were sold during student body wore "The Shirt" went toward the medical treat­Director of Relations for "The game. Every year, "The Shirt" 
the 1990 football season and to the opening game. ment of Todd Broski, an ND Shirt '94." 
has a new design, and color, 
reportedly, 90 percent of the In addition to benefiting rugby player who was severely
and costs $10 for students, $14 
student body wore the shirt. scholarships, charities, and injured in a game. This year's funds will be used 
for the general public. This 
Sales in 1991 reached 11,000 student organizations, pro­This year, sales are expected for student scholarships, chari­
year it can be found on the 
and funds were split between ceeds went in part toward a to reach over $200,000. "The ties, and various other student body of just about every stu-Notre Dame's Student Union Meghan Beeler and Colleen Shirt" is advertised in "Blue organizations. 

---------~ ~ ~ -~-~ ~-~-~-­

Friday, September 9, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 2 
IRISH ON THE OffENSIVE. 
m m 

Wolverine defense not too daunting 

Photo courtesy of the University of Michigan Linebacker Steve Morrison will have to pick up some extra slack with All-American candidate Matt Dyson out of the lineup. 
PLAYER TO WATCH •• •JARRETT IRONS 

By TIM SHERMAN trol type passing game that the Irish may rely on. Assistant Spores Editor If this is the case, look for tight ends Oscar McBride and Pete Chryplewicz to finally put their 
The Michigan game has been the springboard receiving skills on display. for many Irish offensive stars. "We got good production from our tight ends Tim Brown. Raghib "Rocket" Ismail. Rick (last Saturday)," said Holtz. "I think we have Mirer. Reggie Brooks. Even Kevin McDougal. improved at that position." Which player on this year's offense is ready to If there is as team whose linebackers do pos­take the dive into the pool of stardom? sess the speed and experience to hang with them 
Fortunately for coach Lou Holtz and Irish fans, though it is Michigan, even without the injured the list of contenders is fairly lengthy: Ron Matt Dyson. Powlus, Lee Becton, Derrick Mayes, etc. Jarret Irons, the team's leading tackler of a 
Michigan coach Gary Moeller and his year ago, and the tough Steve Morrison are the 
Wolverines know this. But they also know Notre heart and soul of Moeller's defense. Dame's arsenal of high-tech weaponery needs Ty Law is a top-notch cornerback, but he may the trenches to be secure in order to have the have trouble sticking with Mike Miller, never 
time needed to fire. mind Derrick Mayes. After Law, the secondary "The thing that concerns me most is our appears porous. inability to run the football," worried Holtz. B.C. threw for well over three hundred yards Last week against Northwestern, the offensive with a first-year quarterback. Powlus is not a 
line gave Powlus all the time and protection he typical rookie pitcher. asked for. However, they also gave the running One question is: Will he be able to put up huge backs, particualrily Becton, more headaches and numbers again? The more appropriate question bruises than they bargained for. is: Will he need to? 
Still, the running game which is so integral to Holtz's attack does have a game's worth of expe­rience under their belt, and maybe more impor­tantly, another week's worth of line coach Joe Moore's tutelage. 
"Notre Dame's lines are going to be Notre Dame's lines," said Michigan coach Gary Moeller. "They've got some new faces (Dusty Zeigler, Jeremy Akers) playing well." 
This may be enough for the Irish to be succes­ful. especially considering that one of Michigan's weaknesses is its defensive line. 
Of their top six tacklers last week in their 34­26 home victory over Boston College, not one came from the front three. 
Eagle running backs got into the secondary often. Present that chance to Becton, Ray Zellars, and Randy Kinder, and big ground gains become a distinct possibilty. 
Many of the Wolverines defenders have shown poor tackling habits. The Irish will be more than willing to exploit this apparent deficiency. 
"We just did not tackle well," appraised Moeller oflast week's effort. "We got tired." Another factor which concerns Moeller is his team's ability to force turnovers. "Turnovers will be the number one indicator of who is going to win." Michigan forced four last week, but the Irish figure to be far less generous. Notre Dame, nation leader in fewest turnovers last year. played error-free a week ago. 
Coupled with Powlus' debut in Chicago and the fact that McDougal was able to hit for over 200 yards last season in Ann Arbor, Notre Dame looks to hold the air advantage, as well. 
By showcasing the deep aerial attack against Northwestern, Holtz has given Michigan one more worry. But it is the short, more ball-con-
He may not be the  which the Eagles tried  
Man of the Steel, but  to feature.  
he is the man known  Irons arrived in Ann  
as Irons.  Arbor with an impres­ 
At the start of the  sive scrapbook full of  
season,  three  credentials.  Two rep­ 
Michigan lineback­ utable  prep  All­ 
ers were named as  America team includ­ 
player to watch in  Irons  ed the 6'1", 231 pound  

the running for the Butkus backer on their lists. Also, Award, annually given to the Irons was named as one of nation's top linebacker. the 25 best prep players in Two of the three-Steve the talent-rich state of Texas. Morrison and Matt Dyson­In only his second year of have been hampered by nag­action, his play for the Blue ging injuries. has been just as, if not more, 
Luckily for coach Gary impressive than his advance Moeller and his Wolverines, billing. the third, Jarret Irons has Irons may be a bit surprised been injury-free. at the confidence that has 
In fact, the only pain he is been placed in him, in part concerned with is what he due to the injuries of seniors tries to inflict upon opposing Dyson and Morrison, but he ballcarriers. hasn't let the added pressure 
Last week in Michigan's vic­affect his performance. tory over Boston College, he Whether Moeller needs had plenty of opportunities. someone to come up the mid­
The Conroe, Texas native dle on a blitz or drop back recorded a team-high 13 and cover a speedy tailback tackles, including 11 solos. He or bulky tight end, Irons is al­also recovered a fumble. ways capable. And reliable. 
Irons was literally all over Tomorrow, he would like to the field, making tackles give the Irish a painful behind the line of scrimmage reminder of just how reliable. or running sideline to sideline to cut off the outside runs -TIM SHERMAN 




• RATING THE IRISH 
Quarterback 5 
Until he sins, Ron Powlus is still the Messiah. His perfor­mance will largely dictate Notre Dame's success. 
Running Back 4 
The unit on the whole had a below par showing against Northwestern, but they won't be kept down for long. 
Wide Receiver 5 
Some amazing catches from Derrick Mayes and Mike Miller last week made Powlus look like a superstar. 
Offensive Line 2 
Pass protection was good against Northwestern, but run blocking is a big question. Their inexperience showed. 
Defensive Line 3 
They didn't pile up great statistics against Northwestern, 
and running back Dennis Lundy had a big day. But the 
Wildcats were held to three points in as many quarters. 

Linebackers 3 The play of Goheen, Sample, Berry, and Wynn is solid, but the big plays eluded them against Northwestern. They need to provide a spark to the defense. 
Secondary4 
Shawn Wooden was picked on by the Wildcats, but he came through with a pick of his own. Bobby Taylor is Bobby Taylor-awesome. 
Special Teams 2 
Last week's play was surprisingly poor considering Lou Holtz's track record with special teams. Every unit is in need of a serious tune-up. 
Coaching 5 Lou Holtz is a big-game coach, and this one's huge. And plus, it's Michigan-expect something special. 
-MIKE NORBUT 
33 

Notre Dame cannot live on Ron Powlus' arm alone, especially against a team like Michigan, although with Holtz, there s always hope. 
----------~--~-----­
----~-----~----~ 
page 3 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, September 9, 1994 

OLVERINES ON THE OFFENSIVE. 
Michigan offense 
.MICHIGAN 

multi--dimensional 


By MIKE NORBUT 
'

Associate Sports Editor 
For anyone who thought that the Michigan offense rode solely on the broad shoulders of running back Tyrone Wheatley, a second look is in order. 
"Losing a Tyrone Wheatley would be very com­parable to us losing a great back, but obviously they also have other weapons," Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz said. 
"If they were just a one dimensional football team and that was their main asset, that would be disastrous. They still have two great wide receivers, an outstanding quarterback, and maybe the best offensive line in the country." 
Though the Wolverines' offensive production would be definitely enhanced if Wheatley received substantial playing time, reserve run­ning backs have proven their worth. 
Eddie Davis and Tim Biakabutuka stepped into the tailback slot last week against Boston College and combined for 169 yards, more than the Irish running backs gained against Northwestern. 

"Eddie (Davis) will start back there," Michigan head coach Gary Moeller said of the tailback sit­uation. "I don't think I'll change a lot from what happened on Saturday as far as the starting thing. I think we got Tim (Biakabutuka) a little more comfortable and I think he did a good job." 
Running behind the Wolverine offensive line should be a pleasure for whoever is carrying the ball. Tackles Trezelle Jenkins and Mike Sullivan 
. are the leaders of this front, which has only one player shorter than 6-foot-5. Facing this wall of Wolverine beef for the Irish will be a group of linemen and linebackers that are coming off a rough outing against Northwestern. "What disappointed me defensively was just maybe how we tackled, and that they controlled the line of scrimmage, which you know should not happen," Holtz said. "We just didn't play real physical." In order to keep the Michigan running game corked, the Irish will need big plays from their front seven. The only change from last week in terms of personnel will be junior Paul Grasmanis moving to defensive end because of a thigh injury suffered by senior Germaine Holden. Since the players are basically the same, their play and attitudes must undergo an adjustment. "You are not going to stop Michigan from mov­ing the football," Holtz said. "I am more inter­ested in how we set the tone, the attitude, and the temperament for what needs to be done." Michigan's threats do not end with the running game, however. The combination of quarterback Todd Collins and receivers Mercury Hayes and Amani Toomer could prove to be lethal. Collins, in his second full year as a starter, will be firing at a Notre Dame secondary that record­ed three interceptions against Northwestern. "I was impressed with Notre Dame, as I usually am," Collins said. "I see their defensive team as a whole as very fast and I think we are going to have a problem with that. Of course their defen­sive backs are very good." Notre Dame cornerbacks Bobby Taylor and Shawn Wooden will have their hands full cover­ing Toomer and Hayes, but they will be able to look to free safety Brian Magee for help. "Brian Magee being a free safety has got to be the focal point of your defense," Holtz said. "He has got to be able to play the run, the pass, and he's got to be able to play centerfield." Above all, the key to this matchup will be the turnover ratio. The Irish need to cause more fumbles in order to create favorable situations for the offense. "Turnovers will be the number one indicator (of who is going to win) secondly to the rush," Moeller said. "I want to run the football and I don't want to turn it over." With too many turnovers, all the Wolverine offensive threats could be wasted. 

Defenders around 
Toomer said of All­the nation are having American tackle and nightmares. former high school 
Not about footballs, teammate Aaron or even goal posts. Taylor. "But I just 
They wake up thought Michigan sounding like Arnold had more to offer me Schwartzenegger, and I seemed to fit in saying, "It's not a better here." 
Toomer
Toomer." Therefore, he'll be 
Or better yet, "It's not Amani Toomer." 
Amani Toomer is the latest in a line of fine wide receivers to play at Michigan, one that includes Heisman Award win­ner Desmond Howard, Greg McMurtry, and Anthony Carter. 
"I think their wide receivers are outstanding," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "Amani Toomer and Mercury Hayes, the guys that are back, are awfully good." 
Toomer was billed as the second receiver next to Hayes, but has quickly leaped into the spotlight with his per­formance last Saturday. 
The sophomore caught seven passes for 179 yards, with two touchdowns. And this is a man that was almost wearing an Irish uniform. 
"I liked Notre Dame because they had a former player from my high school," a threat to the Irish instead of an asset, and he could be a major thorn in the Notre Dame defense's side. That is, if he can escape the coverage of cornerback Bobby Taylor. 
"I think it will be a good challenge," Toomer said. "I've seen Bobby Taylor on film, I've played against him last year and he's a really good corner." 
Last year, while Taylor and Greg Davis followed Hayes and Derrick Alexander around the field, Toomer slipped through the cracks to catch five passes for 58 yards. 
This year, however, he is much too popular a receiver to slip through any cracks. 
A good receiver against a good cornerback. It should be a good matchup. The Irish can only hope that this Toomer isn't malignant. 
-MIKE NORBUT 



34 
With a lot to prove after a lackluster 1993, and a lot oftalent on paper, Michigan looks dangerous against 
the vulnerable Irish. 
Quarterback 4 Todd Collins is quickly becoming one of Michigan's best ever, and he is quite capable ofleading this team. 
Running Back 4 Sophomore Tshimanga Biakabutuka ran for 128 yards on 12 carries last week. Ed Davis is no slouch. But, oh, do the Wolverines wish they had Wheatley. 
Wide Receiver 5 Both Amani Toomer and Mercury Hayes have big play potential. One of the nation's best receiving tandems. 
Offensive Line 4 Following in the tradition of fine Michigan offensive lines, this is a good one. A lot ofsize and strength. 
Defensive Line 3 A weak spot, but still tough. Tackle Trent Zenkewicz, had six tackles against Boston College, but the Eagles still managed five yards per carry. 
• RATU~G THE WOlVERINES 
Linebackers 4 Led by Butkus Award candidate Jarrett Irons, this unit is the pride and joy of the Michigan defense. But not hav­ing Matt Dyson in the lineup could mean no dice for the Wolverines. 
Secondary 3 Gave up 344 yards passing to Boston College last week­end. Ty Law is a mainstay at cornerback, but the remaining three positions are a bit inexperienced. 
Special Teams 4 With two capable punters, a decent kicking game, and Toomer returning punts, the special teams are definitely an advantage for Michigan. 
Coaching 3 The Wolverines are always one of the best teams on paper, but Gary Moeller often manages to squander his players' talents. He is outclassed in this matchup. 
-MIKE NORBUT 

Friday, September 9, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page4 

MICHIGAN 

.. --.. WOLVERINES
~ 

!­
THE STATS • • • 

TEAMSTATS UM Opp INDIVIDUAL STATS KICKOFF RETURNS No Yds Smith 1 27 
First Downs 20 26 RUSHING All Yds TD Lg Howard 1 13 Rushing 7 9 Biakabutuka 12 128 1 36 Passing 12 16 Foster 4 41 0 25 INTERCEPTIONS No Yda Other 1 1 Davis 20 41 2 9 Thompson 1 0 
Total Net Yards 464 503 Howard 2 8 0 5 Total Plays 70 77 Ritchie 1 I 0 1 TACKLES No ABS Tot Avg./Piay 6.6 6.5 Floyd 1 0 0 0 Irons 11 2 13 Avg./Game 464 503 Carr 1 ·3 0 0 Winters 5 6 11 
Net Rushing Yds 206 159 Collins 3 ·10 0 0 Morrison 2 8 10 Total Attpts. 44 32 Law 7 3 10 AvgJ Play 4.7 5.0 PASSING All Com Yda TD Lg Swett 5 3 8 Avg./Game 206.0 159.0 Collins 24 17 258 2 46 Dyson 4 2 6 
Net Passing Yds 258 344 Carr 2 0 0 0 0 Zenkewicz 4 2 6 
Ati/Compllnt 26/17/1 45/29/1 Johnson 5 1 6 AvgJ All. 9.9 7.6 RECEIVING No Yds TD lg Waldroup 0 3 3 AvgJComp. 15.2 11.9 Toomer 7 179 2 46 Noble 2 1 3 AvgJGame 258.0 3 44.0 Hayes 4 61 0 22 King 2 1 3 
Punts/Avg/Bik 6/34.710 5141.210 Riemersma 2 10 0 9 Holtry 1 1 2 Punt Ret/Yds/Avg 1/6/6.0 211316.5 Smith 1 5 0 5 Powers 2 0 2 
Net. Punting 32.5 40.0 Davis 3 3 0 16 Hom 1 1 2 Kickoff Ret!Yds/Avg 2140120.0 5166117.2 Henderson 1 1 2 lnterceptions/Yds 1/0 1/0 PUNTING No Yds Avg lg Blackwell 2 0 2 Fumbles/Lost 3/3 5/3 Delong 4 120 30.0 37 Anderson 2 0 2 Penalties/Yds 5/38 8/54 Baker 2 88 44.0 47 Thompson 1 1 2 3rd Own Cnv/Ati/Pot 3112125.0 4/13130.8 Evans 0 1 1 
FIELD GOALS: None Charles 0 1 1 
Foster 0 1 PUNT RETURNS No Yds Sanders 1 0 Toomer 1 6 Hankins 1 0 
THE SCHEDULE • • • THE STARS • • I THE STRATEGIST ••• 

No. Name Pos. HI. WI. YR I T. Butterlield WR 5·9 170 FR 

GARY MOELLER 
MICHIGAN 
2 WalterSm~h WR 5·11 192 SR 3 Todd Brooks WR 6·0 170 FR 
Sept. 3 BOSTON COLLEGE 34-26, W 
3 Lance Sanders WR 6-4 200 so 5 Mike Elston LB 6·4 220 so 
1:45

Fifth season at Michigan.
6 T. Wheatley RB 6·1 226 SR 
3:30
7 Chris Floyd TB 6·2 247 so 

Career Record at UM: 36-9-3 
8 Trevor Pryce LB 6·6 247 so 
Oct. 1 TBA 
9 Mercury Hayes WR 5·11 194 JR 

Against Notre Dame: 1-2-1 
TBA

10 Todd Collins QB 6·5 229 SR 
12 Scott Dreisbach QB 6·3 180 FR 

Highlights: Made two Rose Bowl 
~~:: ~M r~~lf:TA N 3:30
13 Jason Carr QB 6·1 199 SR 14 Brian Griese QB 6-3 209 so 
Oct. TBA

appearances in first four seasons 
15 Scot Loeffler QB 6·3 195 so 16 Jay Riemersma TE 6·5 250 SR 
Oct. 
.12:00

as the Wolverines' head coach. 
17 C. Thompson s 6·1 176 so 
Nov. 1:00
18 Amani Toomer WR 6·3 182 JR 19 Its nota Toomer LB 6·3 242 JR 
Nov. 12 MINNESOTA 1:00 
19 Bryan Williams CB 5·9 172 JR 20 Deollo Anderson s 6·0 200 JR 

Nov. 19 at Ohio State 12:00 21 T. Biakabutuka RB 6·1 192 so 22 Ty Law CB 6·0 169 JR 23 L.A. Law DL 6·3 260 JR 23 W. Hankins RB 5·9 190 JR 24 Brent Blackwell s 6·2 221 so 
THE SERIES 
I • I 25 Mike Hynes CB 5·11 160 SR 
26 Ed Davis RB 5·9 202 SR 27 Steve King s 6-1 168 JR 

LAST TIME 
RECORDS 
27 Stephen King WR 6·3 162 SR 28 Deon Johnson CB 6·2 213 SR 29 Colby Keefer QB 6·3 165 so 29 Thomas Mondry RB 6-1 205 so 

Notre Dame 27 Michigan leads 14-10-1 
29 Marcus Ray DB 6.Q 200 FB 30 Andre Weathers RB 6·1 179 FR 

Michigan 23 Last ND win 27-23, 1993 
31 Earnest Sanders S 6·3 205 so 32 Chris Howard RB 6·0 205 FR 

Last UM win 24-14, 1991 
33 Che' Foster RB 6·2 240 SR 34 C. Jean·Agnus CB 5·11 186 'JR 

The Irish carried Lou Holtz Streak 1 by ND 
34 Jeff Zaeske WR 5·10 171 SR 35 Chuck Winters s 6·0 195 JR 

off the field after he At ND Stadium Michigan
36 Steve Morrison LB 6·3 238 SR 37 Jarrett Irons LB 6·1 221 JR 

orchestrated an upset of is 6-4-1 against the Irish 
38 Erik Lovell K 6.Q 197 SR 38 Jace Morgan WR 6·0 177 so 

the second-ranked at Notre Dame Stadium 
39 Nate Delong K 6-2 205 so 40 Jon Ritchie RB 6·2 239 so 
Wolverines. 
41 Tim Laws LB 6·5 230 FR 42 Tyrone Noble CB 5·11 193 JR 42 Chad Petterson WR 6·3 187 SR 43 C. Copenhaver LB 6·3 215 FR 43 Rob Swetti LB 6·2 221 so 
45 M. Vanderbeek LB 6·2 235 JR 46 Kraig Baker K 6·1 175 FR 49 Jay Feely K 5·10 185 FR 50 Julian Norment NG 6·1 246 JR 51 George Howell LB 6·2 225 so 52 Rod Payne c 6-4 285 JR 52 Brett Huff LB 6-4 232 so 53 And Puff WR 6·3 182 JR 54 Joe Ries c 6·3 279 so 55 R. Simmons LB 6-6 240 FR 56 Harold Goodwin OG 6·2 277 JR 57 Sam Sword LB 6·4 240 FR 59 K. Waldroup LB 6·3 248 FR 60 Nate Miller DL 6·4 240 FR 61 Mike Sullivan OT 6·7 299 SR 62 Ante Skorput OG 6·3 289 SR 65 Eric Wendt c 6·4 281 JR 68 Zach Adami OG 6·5 279 so 69 Jon Runyan OL 6·8 293 JR 70 Mark Bolach OT 6--6 270 JR 71 Jeff Springer LB 6·0 211 JR 72 Joe Partchenko OT 6-4 287 so 73 Joe Marinaro OG 6·4 294 SR 74 Josh Cockrell OG 6·1 283 so 75 Thomas Guynes OL 6·5 299 JR 76 Trent Zenkewicz DT 6·6 267 SR 77 T. Jenkins OT 6·8 298 SR 78 Noah Parker OL 6·5 285 FR 79 T. Henderson NG 6·2 269 SR eo Jerame Tuman TE 6·4 225 FR 81 Glen Steele DT 6-5 275 so 82 Mark Campbell TE 6-6 228 FR 83 Todd Richards WR 6.Q 166 SR 84 Matt DeYoung WR 5·11 193 JR 84 MattDeOid WR 6·3 182 SR 84 R. Vanderleest TE 6-4 270 SR 85 Jon Jansen TE 6·8 240 FR 86 Seth Smith WR 5·11 167 so 88 Pierre Cooper TE 6·2 225 so 89 Sean Parini LB 6·1 207 so 90 Juaquin Feazell DL 6·4 245 FR 91 Matt Dyson LB 6·5 256 SR 92 Steve Evans DT 6·4 232 JR 93 C. Singletary LB 6·3 222 FR 94 Jason Horn NG 6·5 271 SR 95 Bobby Powers LB 6·0 231 SR 96 William Carr NG 6.Q 276 so 97 Jeff Holtry LB 6·3 225 FR 98 Damon Denson DT 6-4 267 so 99 Paul Peristeris p·6·0 193 JR 

THE STARTERS  I  I  I  
-------­- ·­ 
'  
MIGHIGAN  . '  MICHIGAN  
SE  18-Amani Toomer, 6-4, 194, JR  OFFENSE  DEFENSE  OLB  91·Matt Dyson, 6-5, 246, SR  
83-Todd Richards, 6-0, 166, JR  53-Ben Huff, 6-4, 236, FR  
LT  77-Trezelle Jenkins, 6-8, 298, JR  DT  94-Jason Horn, 6-5,277, JR  
LG  70-Mark Bolach, 6-6, 287, SO 69-Jon Runyan, 6-8, 299, SO  x.  MG  92-Steve Evans, 6-4,261, SO 79-Tony Henderson, 6-2; 273, SR  
56-Harold Goodwin, 6-2, 283, SO  96-Will Carr, 6-0, 285, SO  
c  52-Rod Payne, 6-4, 288, SO 65-Eric Wendt, 6-4, 286, SO  X  0  0  DT  76-Trent Zenkewicz, 6-6,270, JR 99-Damon Denson, 6-4, 276, SO  
RG RT TE F  75·Thomas Guynes, 6-5, 299, SO 68-Zach Adami, 6-5, 279, FR 61-Mike Sullivan, 6·7, 299, JR 72-John Partchenko, 6-4, 291, FR 16-Jay Riemersma, 6-6, 252, JR 88-Pierre Cooper, 6-2, 225, SO 9-Mercury Hayes, 5·11, 195, JR 86-Seth Smith, 5-11, 174, FR  >c X  X  X X >e ><. X  0 0 c  0 0 c  c ' ; 0 ' i 0  OLB 59-Kerwin Waldroup, 6-3, 239, SO 8-Trevor Pryce, 6-6,255, SO ILB 37-Jarrett Irons, 6-1,231, SO 95-Bobby Powers, 6-0, 229•. SR ILB 36-Steve Morrison, 6·3, 242, SR 44-Rob Swett, 6-2, 229, FR SCS 28-Deon Johnson, 6-2, 209, SR 23-'Woodrow Hankins, 5-9, 197, so  
OB  1o-Todd Collins, 6-5, 216, SR  ·  ss  20-Deollo Anderson, &0, 208, SO  
FB  13-Jason Carr, 6·1, 198, JR 33-Che' Foster, 6-2, 245, JR  ><  FS  31-EamestSanders, 6-3, 199, FR SS;-Cbuck Winters, 6-0, 192, so  
40-Jon Ritchie, 6-2, 232, SO  17-C. Thompson, &-1, 190, SO  
TB  26-Ed Davis, 5-9, 201, JR  WCB 22·Ty Law, 6-0, 201; JR  
21-lim Biakabutuka, 6-1, 205, SO  42-Tyrone Noble, ~-11, 196, SO  
:  
I  



------~----------------------~ 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, September 9, 1994 
-
.----------~----------------­
TEAMSTATS NO Opp Blunt 3 18 0 7 Sollman 2 1 0 2 INTERCEPTIONS No Yds 
First Downs 24 24 
Powlus 2 -6 0 0 Davis 1 11 
by rushing 11 9 

Miller 14 0 0 Wooden 1 7 
by passing 13 11 

Klusas 3 0 0 Taylor 38 
by penalty 0 4 40 36 

PASSING Comp AH Yds TO TACKLES No Ass 
Yardage 185 172 

Pow Ius 18 24 291 4 Goheen 6 3 ~.,._.. .. Krug 1 7 Magee 6 3
Yardage lost 24 6 Rushing yards 161 166 
Gibson 6 2 
Passing yards 298 184 
RECEIVING No Yds TO Lg Taylor 3 4 7 
Passes 25 33 

Miller 7 142 1 46 Wooden 5 0 5 
Completed 19 19 

Mayes 6 95 2 38 Davis 3 2 5 
Intercepted 0 3 

Mosley 2 24 0 13 Berry 3 2 5 Total Plays 49 69 Zellars 2 23 1 21 Sample 3 1 4 Total Yards 459 350 Stafford 1 7 1 7 Wynn 2 2 4 
Average gain 9_4 5.1 

McBride 1 7 0 0 Nau 2 1 3 
Return Yards 41 162 
Hammon 1 2 3 
Punts-Average 3-41.3 3-34.0 
PUNTING No Yda Avg Lg 
Fumbles Lost 0 1 
Ford 3 124 41.3 48 TACKLES FOR LOSS No Yds 
PenaHies-Yds 12-63 5-35 
Gibson 1 -2 
Possession 28:42 31:18 
FIELD GOALS None Tatum 1 -2 
Third Downs 7-11 5-13 Fourth Downs Q-1 0-0 
KICKOFF RETURNS No Yda PASSES DEFENDED No Mosley 1 22 Wooden 2 
INDIVIDUAL STATS 
Farmer 1 14 
RUSHING No Yds TO Lg 
Zellars 1 5 FUMBLES CAUSED No 
10 16 1 6 

Magee 1 
6 52 0 9 

PUNT RETURNS No Yds 
6 30 0 15 

Taylor 1 38 FUMBLES RECOVERED No 
5 22 0 9 

Davis 11 HamiHon 1 
5 11 0 11 

Wooden 7 
..  • •  ..  • •  
Poa.  HL  WI.  YR  
LOU HOLTZ  Derrick Mayes LeShane Saddler  WR s  6-1 5-11  205 196  JR SR  
Dan Farrell  WR  6-Q  166  SA  
Rob Powlus  QB  6-4  218  so  
Ninth season at Notre Dame.  Lee Becton Emmett Mosley  AB WR  6-0 5-9  191 179  SA so  
Career Record: 78-19-1  Mike Miller Leon Blunt  WA QB  5-7 5-9  160 173  SA FA  
Against Michigan: 5-2-1  Ivory Covington LaRon Moore  DB CB  5-11 5·9  160 193  FA SA  
Highlights: Won the 1988 national championship and finished second in  Mike Perona Larry Wright Tom Krug Gus Ornstein  QB ATH QB QB  6-1 5-11 6-5 6-5  186 190 199 210  so FA so FR  
both 1989 and 1993.  ScottCengia Brian Ford  K p  5-9 6-4  167 193  FA so  
John Bishop Paul Rogers  CB QB  6-Q 6-1  171 204  so so  
Allen Rossum  DB  5·9  175  FA  
Brian Perry Mark McKenna  s QB  6-1 5-10  197 188  so so  
Brian Magee  s  5-10  201  JA  
Anthony Swiney  CB  5-11  180  so  
Malcom Johnson  WA  6-5  193  FA  
Bobby Taylor  CB  6-3  201  JA  
Shawn Wooden  CB  5-11  183  SA  
Charles Stafford  WR  5-10  183  SA  
Randy Kinder  AB  6-1  200  so  
NOTRE DAME  Mark Monahan Tracy Graham Ken Barry  s CB RB  6-0 5-10 6-1  178 190 195  JA SA FR  
STADIUM  Brian Meter Jarvis Edison  CB DB  5-7 6-5  152 210  SA FR  
Robert Farmer  RB  6-1  210  so  
Clement Stokes  RB  6-0  200  FA  
Opened in 1930 Capacity 59,07 5 Largest Crowd 61,296 Surface Natural grass Irish at home 239-68-5  John McLaughlin Ray Zellars Richard Rolle Jeremy Sample Travis Davis Sim Stokes Kinnon Tatum Kevin Carretta Joe Babey Alton Maiden  DB RB WR LB s CB LB LB LB LB  6-4 5-11 6-1 5-11 6-0 6-2 6-1 6-1 6-2 6-4  225 221 159 223 197 191 209 227 225 248  FA SA FA SA SA so so JR JA SA  
Bill Wagasy Marc Edwards  LB RB  6-2 6-2  228 221  JA so  
Jeff Kilburg  DE  6-4  258  so  
Bill M~oulas  LB  6-Q  210  FA  
Renaldo Wynn  LB  6-3  254  JA  
Lyron Cobbins  LB  6-2  230  so  
Greg Stec  c  6-2  265  SA  ...  
Melvin Dansby  DE  6-4  245  so  
Germaine Holden  DE  6-4  252  SA  
Jim Kordas  OG  6-5  269  SA  
Justin Goheen  LB  6-2  228  SA  
Oliver Gibson  NG  6-3  275  SA  
Steve Armbruster  c  e-o  220  SA  
Rick Kaczenski  c  6-4  251  so  
Jeremy Nau  LB  6-4  226  SA  
TE T G  80-0scar McBride, 6·5, 271, SR 98-Pete Chryplewicz, 6-4, 267, JR 76-Jeremy Akers, 6,-.4, 296, JR 69.-David Quist, 6-4, 289, JR 72-Ryan Leahy, 6·3, 290, SR  IRISH OFFENSE  IRISH DEFENSE  T NG T  90-Brian Hamilton, 6·3, 288, SR 99-Ciiff Stroud, 6-3, 282, JR 55-0liver Gibson, 6·2, 275, SR 93-Paul Grasmanis, 6-3, 286, JR 52-Germaine Holden, 6·3, 271, S  Jon Bergman Bert Berry Jeff Kramer Mike McCullough Mike O'Donovan Steve Misetic Brett Galley Kurt Belisle Mark Zataveski Paul Mickelbart David Quist Mike McGlinn  LB LB LB OG LB OG LB LB c OL OT OT  6-1 6-4 6-3 6-3 6-2 6-5 5-9 6-3 6-6 6-4 6-5 6-6  220 221 215 295 210 280 188 220 300 265 264 285  SA so FA JA SA JR so FR SA FR JR SA  
QB c G T FL SE  64-Steve Misetic, 6-4, 291, JR 3-Ron Powlus, 6·2, 217, SO 11-Thomas Krug, 6-4, 200, SO 67-Mark Zataveski, 6-5,283, SR 50-Greg Stec, 6-1, 265, SR 77-Dusty Zeigler, 6-5, 286, JR 53-Jim Kordas, 6-5, 271, SR 73-Mike McGlinn, 6-5, 297, SR 70-Mike Doughty, 6-7, 296, SR 6-Mike Miller, 5·6, 159, SR 5-Emmett Mosley, 5-8, 182, SO 1-Derrick Mayes, 6.0, 199, JR 24-Charles Stafford, 5·9, 187, SR  X X  X  X X X X X X  0 C> c 0  0 0 0  c 0 c 0  51-Melvin Dansby, 6-3, 269, SO OLB SO-Bertrand Berry, 6·2, 228, SO 58-Jeremy Nau, 6-4, 233, SR ILB 54-Justin Goheen, 6·3, 235, SR 49-Lyron Cobbins, 6-0, 234, SO ILB 36-Jeremy Sample, 5·11, 229, SR 39-Kinnon Tatum, 5-11, 214, SO OLB 48-Renaldo Wynn, 6·3, 244, JR 42-Aiton Maiden, 6-2, 259, JR CB 22-Shawn Wooden, 5·1 0, 190, SR 9-LaRon Moore, 5-8, 186, SR ss 37-Travis Davis, 6·0, 198, SR 2-LeShane Saddler, 5-10, 197, SR  Herb Gibson Ryan Leahy Mike Doughty Will Lyell Chris Clevenger Jeremy Akers Dusty Zeigler Jon Spickelmier Damian Peter Oscar McBride John Lynch Joe Carrol Mike Denvir Dan McConnell Ben Herrig Ben Foes Cikai Champion Leon Wallace Ty Goode Brian HamiHon Darnell Smith  OT OG OT c OT OT OG OL OL TE WR WR TE WA WA DE WR TE WR DE DE  6-5 6-4 6-8 6-5 6-7 6-5 6-6 6-4 6-7 6-5 6-2 5-10 6-3 5-10 5-10 6-4 5-11 6-3 6-1 6-3 6-5  309 285 280 274 250 286 264 250 295 258 188 182 231 178 168 244 176 275 173 276 265  SA SR so JA so SA JA FA FR SR JA SA so JA JA JA so JA FA SA so  
TB FB  4-lee Becton, 5·11, 201, SR 25-Randy Kinder, 6-Q, 207, SO · 34-Ray Zellars, 5·11, 233, SR ! 44-Mark Edwards, 6-0, 228, SO  FS ' I ~~  17-Brian Magee, 5·9, 204, JR 18-Cikai Champion, 5-9, 188, SO 21-Bobby Taylor, 6-3, 214, JR 38-Sim Stokes; 6-0, 191, SO  Luke Petitgout Paul Grasmanis Reggie Fleurima Corey Bennett Stefan Schroffner Corey Redder Pete Chryplewicz  TE NG NG LB K LB TE  260 277 266 205 164 215 255  FA JA SA FA SA FA JA  
Cliff Stroud  DE  274  JA  

Friday, September 9, 1994 page6 
-
Moore 
continued from pagel 
football. 
"If you want to talk to a Neanderthal man. talk to Joe Moore," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz once said, while introducing his offensive line coach at a luncheon. "That's where his ideas origi­nate." 
Moore didn't deny that image during his speech. waxing nostalgic like Archie Bunker. longing for the days when women were women and men were men. 
When players were players and coach­es were coaches. 
Though Moore may feel misplaced in this era of earrings and egos, his players respect him for the most basic reason. He cares. 
It's just that sometimes he shows it like a nun who cracks your knuckles with a ruler. For your own good, of course. 
"He's definitely old school, about as old school as you can get" Irish center Mark Zataveski said. "It takes some get­ting used to, but eventually you realize that he does everything for your best interests." 
!:
will keep my pads low. I will keep my pads low. I will keep my pads low. 
Zataveski scrawled that sentence 1000 times one night during the preseason. Seems that during a scrimmage that day, Zataveski, well, wasn't keeping his pads low. 
Moore ordered the ink-stained anti­dote. 
A tactic that recalls simpler times. 

Times like the late 50s, when Moore was a tailback at Penn State, playing for the Dean of the Old School, Joe Paterno. Times that seem to be recreated on the practice field each day when Moore 
linemen. 

Often he summons his players to prac­tice early or keeps them late, repeating primitive punishments. 
"Like doing base blocks for an hour," Zataveski said. 
Mess up once and his booming bari­tone will echo through the autumn air, piercing even the thickest skin. 
Mess up again and expect to do some extra-curricular atonement. But Moore can lighten as easily as he can frighten. 
"He's been known to have some funny sayings in practice," Zataveski said, fish­ing for a favorite. "If you're supposed to stay on one man, he'll say 'If he goes to the concession stand for a hot dog, be there to put the mustard on it.' " 
Not all are fit for a family publication. 
"I could tell you some," tackle Mike McGlinn said, "but you couldn't print them." 
Every tactic is a teaching tool, a method to turn Notre Dame's offensive line into a wall of granite. 
A task that can be achieved only with work, not the wave of a wand. "He always says there's no magic in the world, it's all work," Zataveski said. 
M
oore sometimes appears to be 
a magician. Every player ever 
to start for him on the offen­sive line at Notre Dame has been select­ed in the NFL Draft. 
And year in and year out, the Irish 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Joe Moore offers advice to his linemen during last week's season opener against Northwestern. 
boast one of the nation's most potent running attacks. 
The notoriety generally belongs to the men who carry the ball, not the guys who open the holes. 
But Moore prefers the shadows. 
He spotted a newspaper photographer snapping pictures of him at a preseason practice and sent a messenger to shut up the shutterbug. 
"Coach Moore doesn't like photos of himself," one of the lineman said, as straightforward as his mentor. 
It seems like a little bit of Moore rubs off on each of his players. 
Soldiers often admire their general. 
"He's shaped my whole outlook on life," Zataveski said. ''I'm more conserv­ative about a lot of things." 
But Moore isn't all guts and guff. 

He concluded his luncheon address with a sudden burst of emotion that made you wonder if he was about to peel off a mask and reveal that he was, in fact, Stuart Smalley, caring nurturer. 
He shared the story of one of his final encounters with the late Notre Dame legend Moose Krause, a man always with a cigar in his mouth and a smile on his face. 
"When I think of Moose. I feel good," Moore concluded, emotion moistening his words. "And I hope you feel good, too." 
The Neanderthal Man has adapted well to the '90s. 

Rudy Ruettiger 
will appear at the 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
on Friday Afternoon 
September gth 1:OD-4:00 p.m. 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
"On the campus" 
Open 8:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. on saturday 

Friday, September 9, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 8 

-
• 

Turn the tables: Give the bartenders a shot 

Mo Hussein 
23-10 

I
've never been any good at this prognosti­cating bit, so this week I employed the ser­vices of a few local tavern keepers. My original plan had been to travel to an assort­ment of bars and get the lowdown on this year's Notre Dame/Michigan game from the experts. 
I only made it to three. You understand. 
Keep in mind that this was a scientific study for work and not pleasure. No free grub or grog was promised by the participants. I paid for every...water... I drank. 
Ricky Joe-C.J.'s Pub 
Taking time off from the grill, the frontman of South Bend's top burger joint had this to say about the Irish/Michigan clash. 
"Lee Becton's going to rush for 190 yards and Germaine Holden is going to have four sacks. It's Notre Dame in a blowout. Oh, and Justin Goheen is going to have an interception. 
Ricky Joe did not want to give his last name, and for good reason. Any good forecaster needs a catchy name. Ask Jimmy the Greek. So for our purpose, Ye who wishes to remain last­nameless, can stay that way. 
Mo Hussein-Ciub 23 
Through the smoke of Club, Mr. Hussein can be found shooting pool with the Budweiser dis­tributor and handicapping the Irish. 
Rich Bender 
31-23 

"Holtz has something up his sleeve. You better believe it. That Powlus kid has a great arm. It will be close but Notre Dame will win." 
I liked Mo's verve and also his dedication to Powlus. But Mo lacks the slick name like Ricky Joe. I tried thinking of a few: King Hussein, Hussein the Sane, Hussein the Greek. Nothing really working here. 
Also I was disappointed not to find Homer or Barney on stools at the bar. This wasn't the Mo's Tavern I was thinking of. 
Rich Bender-Bridget's 
The man who manages the last five corners bar could not be left off this list. 
"Notre Dame will establish the running game and Becton will have a big day. It will be a close game but Notre Dame will win. Powlus is all business out there. He is young but mature." 
I can't help but get a little sentimental over this prognosticator. Oh, Bridget's, my freshman and sophomore years would have been a wash without your sweet generosity towards my fee­ble excuse for an ID. 
Even sentiment can't sway me from my gut feeling. I'm laying my cash on the burger, 35­10 Irish. Becton comes up as big as a Super Pub with cheese and bacon. 

rArlll'lfJlr 4. Florida St. (8) 5. Miami (1) 6. Michigan (1) 
~ Ill.. 7. Colorado I~ 8. Penn State (1) ..-~ 9. Arizona (2) 
~ 10. Wisconsin 11. Alabama (1) 12.Auburn 13.UCLA 
14. Southern Cal 
15.Oklahoma 
16.Texas A&M 
17. North Carolina 
18.Ohio State 
19.Tennessee 
20.Texas ·.~ 21. Virginia Tech 

22. Clemson 
~ 
23.Georgia 24. Stanford 
"' MIAMI 25. Washington 
TEAM  RECORD  
1. Nebraska (23)  1-0-0  1465  2  
2. Florida (15)  1-0-0  1462  1  
3. Notre Dame ( 1 0) 1-0-0  1413  3  

1-0-0  1388  4  
1-0-0  1229  6  
1-0-0  1205  5  
1-0-0  1140  8  
1-0-0  1112  9  
1-0-0  1053  7  
0-0-0  968  10  
1-0-0  962  11  
1-0-0  878  12  
1-0-0  846  14  
1-0-0  702  17  
1-0-0  594  16  
1-0-0  593  15  
1-0-0  512  18  
1-0-0  497  20  
0-1-0  482  13  
1-0-0  426  19  
1-0-0  352  21  
1-0-0  183  24  
1-0-0  115  
0-0-0  111  25  
0-1-0  92  23  

11 SPORTS EXTRA STAFF EDITOR: George Dohrmann MANAGING EDITOR: Jason Kelly ASSOCIATE EDITOR: Mike Norbut CONTRIBUTORS: Tim Sherman, Zoe Marin GRAPHIC DESIGN: Chris Mullins 


..... 

.. 
-
Friday, September 9, 1994 The Observer • WEEKEND 
Rally to capture Irish spirit 
By MARK ROSENBERG of the cheerleaders and Leprechaun. es started. Accent Writer The rest of the committee takes care As this will be the frrst performance 
of security. for this year's band and cheerleaders 
Holtz chooses the players who will in front of the home crowd, some anx­
As the Notre Dame student body appear while administrative assistant iety is no doubt felt in preparing for eagerly awaits the first home football George Kelly chooses the guest speak­the event. weekend, one of the most anticipated ers from among many famous Notre "Playing at the first rally is a little events is the frrst pep rally. The rally Dame personalities who attend the scary at first. but a lot of fun. It is a kicks off at 7 p.m. tonight at the games. new crowd each time and they are 
J.A.C.C. and will feature the marching A new feature this year will be an very critical," Durso said. band. cheerleaders and football play­opening cheerleader segment to begin The rally will also serve as the ers that Irish fans have come to 15 minutes before every pep rally. home debut for new Varsity expect. This feature is designed to get the Leprechaun Jamie Glover. 
Former Irish quarterback Terry fans involved in the action and to cre­This year. more people than ever Hanratty will serve as the guest ate a spirit of excitement when the will be able to enjoy the Michigan pep speaker for the first rally, according band and players arrive at 7 p.m. rally as ESPN and WNDU-TV will pro­to rally organizer Cort Peters. According to head cheerleader vide live coverage of the festivities. 
Hanratty played under Ara Jennifer Durso, the 12 varsity cheer­Both stations will air live cut-ins to Parseghian from 1966-68, earning a leaders have decided to "try crowd the rally throughout their preview national championship with the '66 involvement" through a couple of new broadcasts at 7 p.m. squad. cheers that will be introduced at Peters reports that WNDU will prob­Tailback Lee Becton and linebacker tonight's rally. ably cover the other rallies this sea­
. ...
Jeremy Nau will also address the As expected, both the band and the son while ESPN coverage will only fans. In addition to Lou Holtz, sec­cheerleaders have invested a great occur for big games. ondary coach Dean Pees will repre­deal of time in preparing for tonight's Every true Irish fan, however, sent the coaching staff at the rally. event. The cheerleaders have prac­knows that there is no comparable 
The organization of the rally ticed for 3 hours every day this past experience to witnessing a pep rally requires a great deal of work from the week while the band has practiced for live. The leprechaun, band, golden Pep Rally Committee, according to at least 90 minutes every weekday helmets and fanatic crowd response Peters who organizes the lighting, the this school year, in addition to attend­all create a spirit and tradition which band entrances and the introductions ing band camp the week before class-no other school can duplicate. 
Twilight tailgate to kick-off football weekend 
ByPATII CARSON 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
•Tye-dying. 
S.A.B. will be selling "Twilight Tailgate" T­shirts that can be tye-dyed, for $8 or students can bring their own shirts. 

•Volleyball/Canoe 
Races on Lake Marian. Both events are open to all interested. Participants must register for these events from 2:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Groups of six or less may reserve time for volleyball matches. Six canoes will also be available at various times in the afternoon for 


races. Two people are allowed in each canoe. 
•Temporary Tatoos. A wide variety of self-adhesive tatoos will be available. Designs include prints from the Harley Davidson logo to cartoon characters. 
"This band is one of high en­ergy. Global Village plays a wide variety of music that col­lege students enjoy," she added. 
•Bonfrre. A bonfrre will be set up on the field between Havican Nursing Hall and the Angela Athletic Facility park­ing lot, said Udovich. 
"Members of S.A.B. have been planning these activities 
...
since last April, when the current board members were elected," said Marlene Johnson, Assistant Director of 
S.A.B.. "We encourage students to participate and to enjoy the festivities." 
page 18 The Observer· LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, September 9, 1994 
Back home in again Indiana, not yet pushing up daisies 
I'm back home again in Indiana after a summer in Manhattan, where I spent a week in the hospital, wonder­ing how soon it would be before I started pushing up daisies. En route home, I stopped in Alexandria, Virginia, to collect Darby O'Gill III, now at the peak of his form at the age of three, and letter­perfect in obedience after attending the yuppiest school for dogs in the East. "As an unneutered male," the trainer said, "Darby's attention span, when mixing with other dogs, may be shorter than that of an altered animal, since he has all these macho hormones run­ning amok in his blood stream; but with his obedience train­ing, his intelligence, and his naturally gentle disposition, he should behave for you beauti­fully at Notre Dame." 
It strikes me as ironic that Darby spent two weeks of the summer learning obedience. On the way to the priesthood, I spent a year in the novitiate trying to learn obedience so that I could take vows promis­ing to be poor, chaste, and obedient for a lifetime. The Master must be disappointed in the way I've turned out as a Christian who might have been improved by neutering, 
I should have sent an old pair of pants to obedience school with Darby, so that he could be trained not to chew at my trouser cuffs when he wants me to notice him, unless I spray them first with bitter apple. To deter him from doing this, the other evening I stuck my face into his face to explain how inappropriate his behavior was, and how hard it 

was on my H a v i n g bell-bottomed brightened the Sansabelts. F h R b G •ffj corner where 
Snarling like a at er 0 ert fl lfl she was, she pit bull I D D I r left me as warned him to LDeffers fo a LDoneJt/ 9oa quickly as she lay off the J had arrived, chewing, or I leaving me 
would have ------------------------• comforted as 
him stuffed. In friendship in the noonday heat; Darby O'Gill did response, he ever so gently for all I knew, she might have when he licked my face with washed my face with his been a Jehovah's Witness his tongue. How could she tell tongue. wanting a handout; but how that I felt guilty about smok­
1 was reminded of Jonathan can you refuse to introduce ing, after being hospitalized Edwards' sermon, "Sinners in yourself to a friendly soul anx-for a week with a tired ticker? the Hands of an Angry God." ious to do you good? Once What would I do to get What would happen, I won-Peggy was in possession of my attention, if I didn't smoke? In dered, if a reprobate crea-name, she said: "Pastor Griffin, a bar that serves as an oasis ture-as loathsome in God's some people would condemn for smokers in the Pittsburgh sight, says Edwards, as a ven-you for smoking that cigarette, airport , a young woman­omous spider would be to us-but 1 don't judge you." Then whose face reminded me of the offered a sign of devotion to she proceeded to tell me how pearls of the Orient-asked me the just Judge? Would theology sincere she was in all her to excuse her for wanting to be changed forever if the en c 0 u n _ know if I angry God, ready to cast a sin-ters, and was a ner into the everlasting bon-how she priest. Her fire, should find that the bun-w i s h e d question
' I wasn't thrilled at starting a
dle of iniquity was lovingly t h a t was: "Are licking the wrath-filled fin-everybody friendship in the noonday priests 
supposed
gers? in the heat; for all I knew, she might
Darby O'Gill takes so much world was to smoke?" pride in himself when he sees as honest have been a Jehovah's Witness "I don't how he pleases me with his as she know if
wanting a handout. .. ' 
obedience. If I were that eager was. they're to please the Master, I would supposed
I 

not fear the judgment. Yet to smoke,"
thanked 

even our sins have a way of I answered, "But they certainly 
her as best I could for her hon­
turning into something beauti­are allowed to." Why did she
esty and sincerity. The next
ful from God. In Old Town, think I would so openly light 
thing I knew, she put her hand 
part of Alexandria, I paused up, if smoking was a sin
on my knee, and started to
outside a bookstore to light a against my religion? 
pray for me. "IF Pastor Griffin
cigarette as I parked my car­The friendly skies, from
is putting that cigarette before 
cass on a terraced wall. I was Pittsburgh to Michiana, are a
You, Lord, he is definitely sin­
soon joined by a portly lady of spot close to God where it is
ning. If he's not putting that
color, about 40, who parked easier to pray than it is to
cigarette ahead of You, then
her carcass beside me. read, and so as the plane was
there's no harm to his smok­
Introducing herself as Peggy, beginning its descent to the
ing, and You can bring him to
she said: "Pastor, what's your Michiana airport, I was mea­
glory, when his time comes, to 
name and what religion are suring myself against the opin­
praise Your holy name with
you with?" ions many readers of the
the saints."

I wasn't thrilled at starting a Observer seem to have of me. 
I perceive an error that read­ers, friendly or otherwise, are apt to make. In the flesh, and stocking-footed, I'm not neces­sarily the character students hear from week after week in Letters to a Lonely God. If I were, I wouldn't be so fre­quently surprised when I read the columns I have written, when they appear in print. 
The persona, or mask, I assume as an essayist is not necessarily that of the fellow I am when I put my pants on in the morning, one leg at a time, so that I can go decently to the dining hall to drink juice and coffee. The voice you hear in the column is from someone who tries most of the time to put his best foot forward. When the real Robert Griffin puts his best foot forward, it's mostly on paper. My real ambi­tion in life is to hide the fact that I have feet of clay. After 24 years of turning out pieces, I might as well admit that the priest, writing letters to the God Whom he alleges is lonely, gets on my nerves. 
When the time comes for me to start pushing up daisies, I pray that I will be home in Indiana. Moses didn't live to see the Promised Land; yet, so the rabbis say, he died in God's arm. When my time comes, Notre Dame will be as much of the Promised Land me as I need to see. God's arms for me means to be with my Holy Cross Community in my life, death, and dying. Of course, I don't want to die real soon, for that would be morbid, and Darby O'Gill III will need me for at least ten more years. I hope to live to see his puppies' puppies. 

E&EDISON 
2 miles East of Campus The Fighting Irish Road-tripper's Headquarters -OPEN 24 HOURS r----ifolir-~E;ei ____, r---Fueriiljection___, r-oil-Ciialige-, r---CarWasli___, 
I 

I Alignment Cleaner
I 
I 
I 

I $49.95 $15.95 $1 Off 
I 
I $49.95
I 

I I expires 9/30/94 expires 9/30/94 expires 9/30/94 with any purchase 
L-----------------------L-----------------------L-----------------------L----------------------­r-----------------------, r-------ili~-ii-ag_______, r-----------------------, r-----------------------,
I I 30 Quart 10 Pound 2-12 Packs 
I 

I Seyfert's Chips 
I 

I Coolers Bag of lee of Coke
I I 
I 

I $1.99
I I 

I $1.99 99¢ $5.99
I I I was $2.79
I 

L-----------------------L-----------------------~ L-----------------------L-----------------------~ 
2 Liters of Coke Still only 99¢ Propane Available For All Gas Grills & R.V.'s 10% DISCOUNT ON ALL SERVICE WORK WITH STUDENT ID 
... 
<;;.,. 
page 19 

Friday, September 9, 1994 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314l..aFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
ASSISTANT SWIM COACHES for THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & I NEED GA'S FOR MICHIGAN, Help!\ Two married student booklets for a BREAKFAST· Historic Home, quiet PURDUE, STANFORD, BYU & I NEED 2 PURDUE GAs sale: call273-2889.NOTICES local age group team. setting, 4 guest rooms, shared FSU. MIKE 289-3203. call Kim 271-2859 
Afternoon and/or evening hours, baths. 20 minutes to campus. NEED 1 PURDUE stu. or GA tick­WELCOME BACK! various days of the week. 616-695-6321. WANTED: OCT. 15 BYU TICKETS. Need 1 stud or GA for PERDU et.Call BRAD x1999. For your convenience, The Morris Call 289-SWIM. 4 TOGETHER. CALL $$Please call JULIE x2534$$ Inn Gift Shop is open 7 days a BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 800-922-2327 JANET. HELP! Wanted: 1 student tix or 2 week. Besides Gift and Souvenir NEEDED!! A ride to CLEVELAND PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC stu. tix. book for sale or separate! GA's to Purdue. Please call Mary items, we have Photo Processing. on SEPT 16 will share gas 4-2384 EVENTS. NO VS FSU NOV. 12, CITRUS best offer! call charles at x1387 at #634-2994. FREE DOUBLES -Every Day 219-291-7153. BOWL 
ASAP I need a dependable FAN NEEDS TICKETS. PLEASE I NEED 1 OR 2 MICH. GA'S. 6 Mich GA's for salelll 
weekend sitter for a 1 year old. BED & BREAKFAST CALL 407-246-1879. MAY CALL DAD FLYING FROM LA AND WILL 2 FSU tix and air fair tixlll Alcoholics Anonymous student References a plus. Call 232-5261 291-2258. COLLECT. PAY YOUR PRICE call x1456 meetings will be held every Monday leave a message. CALL JUSTIN AT 273-5917 at 8 pm in the Office of Alcohol and EDISON PARK, 3 BEDROOM ALUMNI DESPERATELY NEEDS Mich & FSU GA'sllll Drug Education NEEDED: 1 roommate for OC apt HOUSE. 2 CAR GARAGE. ON TIX FORUM GAME. WILL PAY DESPARATELY NEEDED: call Marcus x1244 
call 273-5299 thnx PYLE ABOUT 1.25 MILE EAST OF $$$AND/OR TRADE AF OR NAVY STUDENT OR GA'S FOR CAMPUS $675 MONTH 282-1014 TIX. CALL DAN (319) 323-7152 STANFORD, PURDUE, NAVY MICH G.A. AVAILABLE BEST MORRIS,INC. PART TIME WAREHOUSE WORK AFTER 5. AND A.F.. CALL RACH 233-1761 OFFER CALL 284-5142 CUSTOM SCREENPRINTING Accepting applications for part­1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR High Quality, T's, Sweatshirts, etc. time order fillers and stockers. RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS NEED MICHIGAN STD. OR GA'S. NEED 1 STUD. TKT FOR MICHI­MICH G.A. AVAILABLE BEST GREAT PRICES\ Approximately 20-25 hrs weekly. PROPERTIES. 272-6306 CALL 233-5130. GAN GAME OFFER CALL 284-5142 
Contact Katie Adams x2845 Apply at Richmond Master Dis!. CALL STEPHANIE 4-4946 4202 Technology Dr. (west on Be an owner I WILL BUY ANY HOME GAMES. STILL NEED MICHIGAN TIX? Cleveland Rd to Technology Dr.), Jamison Inn Partnership selling a 233-5130. NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS, GA I HAVE 2 MARRIED STUDENT 
USED TEXTS CHEAP!!II or call Chris at239-0310. limited # or Mini-Suite OR STUDENT. CALL JOE AT TICKET BOOKS FOR SALE. Buy & sell used books at the only Condominiums $65,000-70,000 I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. 4-2712 MAKE OFFER ON MICHIGAN hip place in town 1 0-6M-S/9-3Sun MACRI'S DELl DOWNTOWN 1 )Guaranteed Reservations 272-6551 GAME OR WHOLE BOOK. PANDORA'S BOOKS Now hiring all positions. Good 2)Six nights free per year WANTEDII Chicago Alums need CALL SEAN X1101. NO ave & Howard St 233-2342 starting pay plus many benefits and 3)Professionally managed DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHI­Two Student Ticket Books and 2 
incentives including bonus pay and 4)Substantial cash return GAN STUDENT TICKETS Michigan, BC and Stanford GAs. Two Married student tix booklets for ••••• TROOP NOTRE DAME extra vacation days. 214 Niles Ave. S)Never go looking for a room for CALL SEAN AT 634-1101 Will pay$$$. Call (312)404·5502 sale. Come and See what 281-1351. Apply within. football games again WILL TRADE CAR OR ORGANS IF (nights). Ask for Dina or Rob. (No 10 required) NO's only Hip Hop Call Missy Bornheimer-Coldwell NECESSARY. Best offer by Friday @5:00pm. Dance Club is all about!\ HELP WANTED: Banker Anchor 259-6317,259-SELL MARRIED STUDENT TICK­Call x11 01 ask for sean or leave INFORMATION NIGHT: ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER 7573, ETS BOOKLETS OR MICHIGAN name number and offer on MON. SEPT. 12 @ 7 p.m. ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS 235-3180 24hr voice mail or 4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED. ONLY. OVER 170 BO machine. 
In the Montgomery Theater NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND Jamison Inn 2n-9682 CALL X2875 (NICKY) 271 19 98 ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY DESPERATEIII Need 2 Stanford NEWS SERVICES, ROOMMATE NEEDED. 3 bedroom WANT TO BECOME RICH? SELL GA's for out-of-town relatives.
ILOST & FOUND I 232-3205 OR 288-9361. !bath and kitchen.CLOSE TO Angry airmen need as many Air ME YOUR 2 MICH. TXS.ITS ONLY Willing to pay $$$. Call X4820 
COMPUS 127 E. pendel. Force GA's as possible. Serve your A GAME. KEVIN 273-8673 PLEASE HELP \!1 GOLD WANTED: RESPONSIBLE, KID­$170+UTIL. Call219-271-7588 country, call x4816. SALE: STUD TIX BOOK $180 WOMEN'S SEIKO WATCH LOST LOVING STUDENT WITH CAR TO Need two Mich GAs. Will pay $$. T.2n-3864 MONDAY SEPTEMBER STH­BABYSIT 2 CHILDREN AGES 4 &6 Call Sharkey x2652. POSSIBLY BfT GALVIN AND BP. IN MY HOME. 2-3 DAYS PER FOR SALE NEED 2 MICH. GA TIX. I need 2 BYU GAs. REWARD. CALL KELLEY X3427. WEEK FROM 2-6. PLEASE CALL CALL BILL AT 233-5719 NEED 3 BYU GA TIX & 1 STUD Will pay Big $$$. 
2n-s186. NEW LAPTOP COMPUTERS­BYU call 1722 if you have them Please call Laura: 284-4328. $$$$$REWARD$$$$$ CHEAP! •486DX2/50,4MB I NEED 6+ STUDENT TICKETS I'm desperate. I lost my friend's SKI RESORT JOBS -Hiring for RAM,COLOR,PCMCIA, SOFT­FOR THE 9/24 PURDUE GAME. Will trade 2 BYU GAs for 2 MICH NEED 1 MICH STU Tlx black denim football. Last seen at many positions for winter quarter. WARE AND MORE •486DX CALL KEVIN @273-8699 GAs. If not, will buy 2 MICH GAs. already have Stu ID Soldier Field next to port-o-potties Over 15,000 openings! For more 33,8MB RAM,ACTIVE MATRIX day: 234-7553 nile: 234-3873 CALL4293 on Saturday. Any info-call Pavis at information call: (206)634-0469 ext. COLOR, PCMCIA, SOFTWARE WANTED: 233-5130. V55841 AND MORE 2-4 GA Purdue Tickets. $100 per I NEED 2 Purdue GAs II I NEED one Michigan GA. 
CALL CHRIS @ 273-2070 ticket. 515-965-0512 Will pay big $$$ I HAVE lots of money. Found!\!! National Park Jobs -Over 25,000 Please call Amy 4-3427 CALL Bryan @ x3244 BrownfTan reading glasses wed. at openings! (including hotel staff, tour RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR Wanted: 4 Mich GAs. Desperate the Observer(3rd flor La Fortune) guides, etc.) Benefits & bonuses! FOR ONLY $79 FOR TWO Alum promised boss tixl Career in I NEED STANFORD TICKETS. No it won't get you into the Please Call The Observer or come Apply now for best positions. Call: SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV­jeopardy. Call Brian 815-568-69n. PLEASE!! X3460 AARON Michigan game, but you can read up to 3rd floor La Fortune to the 1·206-545-4804 ext. N55841 ERY CALL: about it online. For Sale 2400/9600 office. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, Need tix: 5 BYU G.A'S; 4 STAN­internal send/receive fax-modem for 
SPRING BREAK '95-SELL TRIPS, 272-5959. FORD G.A'S; 2 STANFORD NEED 2 OR 3 STANFORD GAs IBM compatible desktop. Includes 
EARN CASH & GO FREE!\! STUD.--CALL JOE @X2765 CALL PATRICK 273-9760 software and manuals $35 (com­HUFFY 3-SP LADY'S BIKE -BUR­Student Travel Services is now hir­87 HONDA CIVIC Wagon, 4WDr., pared to $55 new). 273-8769 GANDY.CALLSGT.CATIRELL 1-ing campus representatives. Lowest Manual ($3800). Ca\1631-5411 NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S. BETH 8340 rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Day1ona X2965. I NEED GA TIX TO MICH. NEED 2 U. OF M. GA'S. CALL 
and Panama City Beach. Call 1-BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS PLEASE CALL 4-2447 COLLECT 810-642-8225. 800-648-4849. CALL COLIN AT 273 -6205 Need 2 Ml stud. tix. Call Monica
WANTED 
813-254-3716 3 MICH ST TICKETS FOR SALE­SEEKING TO BUY TWO OR FOUR 
HELP! My uncle will lose all respect BEST OFFER 289-9420 GA TICKETS TO ANY OR ALL ARE YOU READY FOR A HEAV· for me, if I don't score a bunch of SMC CLASS RING I need 2 tickets to the Stanford, NOTRE DAME HOME FOOTBALL ENLY EXPERIENCE? Stanford/NO tickets. If you can help PETITE W/ DIAMOND BYU or Purdue game. Call FOR SALE: 4 Married Student GAMES. CALL BILL HOGAN, BECOME PART OF AN INTER­please call, money is no object. 10K GOLD Rosanna x35n Ticket Booklets (no !.D.'s required)! DURING DAY AT OFFICE AT ESTING, CHALLENGING RETAIL Bob Ricci, MAKE AN OFFER Call Darel@ 291-3818 or (217) OPERATION. PREVIOUS FOOD 201-239-2222 or 908-289-0199. 273-6205 Need 4 GA's four Purdue game, Larry@ 254-9174 782-6995, AFTER 10 PM AT SERVICE EXPERIENCE HELP­together please for family. Chris (217)698-9267. FUL. IMMEDIATE OPENING. Wanted-1985 Nissan Sentra, auto, air, x1955 OPPORTUNITY. 2 entire Marr. Stu. HOURS 1:30-6:30 MONDAY THRU A N.D or S.M.C. faculty or staff AM/FM cass; call631-7494 booklets for sale. I NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA'S BADLY FRIDAY AND EVERY OTHER member interested in a expense Call 273-8938, or leave message PARENTS FLYING IN FROM NY SATURDAY 8:30-2:00. paid ski trip to Crested Butte Sale: 2 upholstered chairs-$35 & Wanted: 2 GA's for Navy gamell MIKEX42210 APPLY IN PERSON AT HEAVEN­Colorado, Jan 8-15 with the ski $20. Please call Amy 4-1330. HELPI I need PARENTS' WKEND LY HAM, 2307 EDISON BETWEEN club. If interested please contact 1\amp-$15. 1-5435. 8-Spm. ""*************•***************······· Tixl Kathy x4850 WANTED: MICHIGAN TICKETS 8:30-10:00 OR Kevin Malone@ 272-1352 WILL BEAT OTHERS BEST 
2:00-5:00. CHAIRS, BIKE, APPLE IIC W/ Need MICH STD TIX OFFER. WILLING TO TRADE 
WANTED: TIX FOR PURDUE PRINTER, MODEM ECT.272-6306 NEED 2 TIX FOR MICH. Molly 271-9364 OTHER HOME GA'S. CALL EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. DESPERATE,WILL PAY$$$ KYLE AT x1478. BREAK TRIPS! SELL 8 TRIPS & JILL 273-6942 Student tickets for sale. 272-2320 CALL JASON, 272-4297 NEED STANFORD GA's BADLY. GO FREEl BEST TRIPS & HAVE 2 NAVY TIX. I NEED MICHIGAN GA'S PRICES\ BAHAMAS, CANCUN, 2 student tix needed. Please call Powerhouse Gym V.P. Membership STANFORD GA'S NEED 4. Will trade or buy. Bryan x1190 CALL RYAN: 271-5685 JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT Jim at 287-0889. Transfer . 20 months at a special MATI 257-0564 RESUME EXPERIENCE\1-800-low price. Call Pete at 1-4026. For Sale: 2 Mich stud tix or 2 stud $$$$ 678-6386! I need 2 Michigan GAs! Call Jim at Desperately Need tix booklets. Best offer. Call Amy LOOKING FOR SOME FALL 
287-0889. 4 NAVY Tickets!II 289-9018 BREAK CASH? PART TIME WORK AVAILABLE TICKETS $ $ $ $ NEED 2 TIX FOR NO-MICH. TAKING PHYSICAL INVENTO­2 Michigan tickets needed -student Please Call Daniella STUDENT AND GAS NEEDED GAME. CALL AIMEE AT 2n-Q715. RIES. WORK AROUND YOUR or GA. Call Patty at NEED 2 GA'S FOR ALL GAMES. at x2537 FOR BYU AND GAS FOR AF. $$$$ SCHEDULE. DAYS AND/OR 284-3645 after 4:00 p.m. CALL BOB 219-232-5297. PLEASE! CALL JEANNE AT WEEKENDS. $5.25 PER HOUR Alum from East seeks Michigan nx. X2478. $$Need MICH. TIX$$ CALL 272-0408 CLANCY INVEN­SOCCER REFEREES! Students I NEED TIX FOR MICHIGAN AND Has BYU and Air Force GAs to CALL MIKE 289 6988 TORY SERVICES needed to referee soccer games for TALLAHASSEE. I AM VERY DES­trade and $$$ to spend. Call Dave 
southside elementary school PERATE. CALL CHRISTIAN AT 201-222-1845 ASAP NEEDED-2 STANFORD GA'S I WILL BUY YOUR STD. TIX. RESORT JOBS-Earn to $12/hr. + (Grades 5-8), located near 287-6743. WILL PAY BIG$. CALL JENNY 4-4021 BOOKLET. CALL 233-5130. tips. Theme Parks, Hotels, Spas, & Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. Need 1 Mich. stud. ticket. more. Tropical & Mountain destina­All games scheduled between 4 NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & Jim2n-3953 WANTED 3 GA EITHER NO VS tions worldwide. Call (206)632-0150 and 5:30 pm, Monday-Friday, STANFORD! X2174. WANTED: NO VS MICH TICKET. PUR, STAN, BYU CALL COL 215­ext. R55841 Sept. 9-0ct 29. $15-$20 per game. DESPERATELY SEEKING GAs tor NO ALUM WILL BUY FROM YOU 355-7131 
Must have referee uniform. Call $$$1 NEED MICHIGAN TIX. GA OR PURDUE and NAVY. PLEASE OR SWAP TWO STANFORD WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST 291-4200 or 291-8731. STUD. CALL KAREN X4290. HELP -$$$. Call Alisa -634-4355. TICKETS. CALL (708}864-0930. NEED MICH STUD OR GA'S 
•
GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY MY BROTHER FROM COLORADO CALL TED X-3054 $$$ SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO­A LOCAL BUSINESSMAN NEEDS MY FRIENDS WILL PAY ANY­WOULD LOVE TO SEE MICH MOTE SPRING BREAK TO FOR RENT 2 PAIRS OF GA SEASON TICK­THING FOR MICHIGAN STUD. OR GAMEl NEED STUD BOOKS AND GA JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, ETS. 272-7233. GA TIXI!! FOR ALL GAMES FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE ENGLISHWOMAN OFFERS CALL 272-8606 TONY 272-6621 TRAVEUCOMMISSIONSI SUN QUIET ACCOMMODATION NEAR •BIG BARGAIN -HURRY• NEED LOTS OF BYU TIX HAVE SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-niO. CAMPUS FOR ND/SMC VISI­WILL TRADE MY 6 AF GA OR 4 Wanted: 4 GA's for Michigan AIR FORCE I NEED MICH. STUDS. 
TORS. PHONE AF. PLUS 2 NAVY OR USC FOR game. & PURDUE TIX. KEVIN 271-7428 
(219)631-6072 DAYTIME, YOUR 2 MICH. OR BC GA'S. call 288-2589 CALL ERIN 4015. PART-TIME NANNY NEEDED to (219)273-1751 EVENINGS. .288-1186. PLEASE PLEASE PLEASEIIIIIII care for 1 & 4 yr. old during week­Looking to trade 2 Navy GA's My Little Brother is Flying in days. 10 mi S. of NO-own trans­ROOMMATE needed. Female pref. CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD for 2 Stanford GA's. Kristen X4838 for the Michigan Game and porlation needed. 9:30 to Oak Hill Condo. Own room & bath. I NEED NO SEASON & ALL NOTRE DAME. I would if I had tick­or (715)341-0627. Desperately Needs a Ticket 
4:30 or any regular block of time Call 273-4485. GAMES GA. WILL PAY TOP$$$$. ets to the Stanford game. Alum (Stud. or GA) during those hrs. Can be flexible. WILL ALSO TRADE MY 6 OR 4 REALLY wants to return to campus HAVE 2 NAVY GA's to trade for 2 ....Call Theresa x4708.... Please call 299-0051. THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, FOR YOUR 2 MICH. OR BC GA'S. with family. Student tix ok. Price STAN GA's + CASH. Also NEED 1 
NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BE SURE TO CALL. 288-1186. negotiable. Call collect after 6 pm FSU GA. BIG $$$$$$$ NO FAMILY REUNION needs 
BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO (516) 499-5009. Call Dave #3494 Stanford TX. TOP DOLLAR. Call NEED RIDE TO PURDUE! Any NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE ST. JUDE, WANT 2-4 SEASON OR 517-332-4719. Weekend Will Pay For Gas. Call OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219· INDIVIDUAL GA TIX. NEED 2 STANFORD TIX NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. Jasmin 233-4960 n3-2034 312-404-4903 DAN. -CHRISTl X4899 PLEASE CALL CHRISSY x3415 
see ClASS I page 20 

~------· -----~---~-~-------~------------------------------------..... 
page 20  The Observer • SPORTS  Friday, September 9, 1994  
Class  Need 2 BYU GA tix. Need 3 Stanford STD. tix. Need 2-6 Stanford GA tix. I'm in some serious  NEED 2 B.C. TIX. WILL PAY BIG$ CALL RYAN@4-1913  I NEED BYU GA'S, BYU STD'S, AND 2 STANFORD GA'S. MIKE X-3767.  SKYDIVINGII Experience the ulti­mate of all sports with the Great Lakes Skydivers. We are the oldest  Do you love classical music? Do you have some personality? Do you like to talk? Would you like to be a  
continued from page 19  NEED so please call Rachael at x4667. Will pay BIG MONEY.  I Need 1 Stanford student ticket. Call Dan x3883  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  and most experienced club in the area. We have several different training programs available, all  radio announcer? WSND would like you to be a part of our staff. For more information calll-7342.  
Needed: Ticket, preferably GA. for  NEED 1 MICH, 4 PUR.,  Need 2 Michigan stud. tickets.  CALL SUZV AT 4072  approved by the USPA. Call for  
first home game. My mother will be eternally grateful. Call4-4185. Need 4 Stanford GA'sl Willing to pay $$$$  + 2 STAN. STUD TIX. CALL 234-8958. I need one Michigan student ticket. Please call 284-5311.  Call Wade x3883 I need 4 PURDUE GA's ... Will pay insane amounts of money. Call Pete at 2n-2710  $$$$$  class times and schedules. Located 1 hour North of South Bend. 1-616­628-4892. GO ACROSS CAMPUS UNDER A  SARAH NERNEY and IRENE SOESILOI No naked Nahas pictures yet, but stay tuned ...Cafe Lewis will be opening soon.  
Call Suzy 4-3427  Thank you!  Need Michigan stud tix Eric x1087  • NEED 2 Stanford and 2 Purdue • GA'sl! Please call4-1330.  GROOVY TIE-DYED WOOD­STUCK UMBRELLA. $13.00 +  Hey Clint! BOOT TO THE HEAD!  
WANTED: 2 ND-MICH TIX. CALL  NEED MICHIGAN GA'S  $$$$$  S&H.  
COLLECT PAUL THAL, BUS: 81G-4n-o800, X2365 OR HOME: 810-349-5543.  Call Chris @ X-3767  $$$$$$$$$$$ DESPARATELY NEED STUD TIX for MICH . Call MARC @ 233-4008  CALL 1-800-259-1250 TO ORDER.  The green canary flies over the blue bam.  
I NEED MICHIGAN GA'S  $$$$$$$$$$$  
SELLING MICHIGAN GA'S AND BOOKLETS. LUIS 273-1528 2 ROLLING STONES/LENNY KRAVITZ (@ MSU) TIX 4 SALE. NEED RIDE THERE. CALL JEN X2875.  CALL MIKE X-3767 Need 2 Navy GA's Call Burke x1699 FOR SALE: 2 Michigan GA's.  $$$$$$$$$$$ Parents & Iii sis A flying in for the STANFORD GAME. Need 2-4 GA'st Please Call Dayne 273-4412 $$$$$$$$$$$  ••• FOR SALE ••• One student ticket book Unsigned Includes Michigan Call Bill at 291-6216  $5.50 HAIRCUT VITO'S BARBER SHOP 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 233-4767  Lori, If I can sit down and type a paper on a Thursday night, you can read a few measly pages of War and Peace. Paul  
273-9838.  HAVE 2 NAVY GA'SI  DJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJ  
NEED MICH GA'S CALL MATT AT X2153 BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU  NEED 2 MICH GA'S -BILL X1862 I need 2 GA's for the Navy Game!Call Ryan at 3333.  FOR SALE: 2 Air Force GA's, 2 Navy GA's. Call with best offer. Mike 3767  NEED 1 STAN & 1 A.F. GA WILL TRADE OR BUY! CALL MARK 3382 VETERANS: NEED MONEY FOR  The Alumni-Senior Club is looking for a OJ to work busy nights, espe­cially football weekends. Please pick up an application at the Student Activities office and retum it  Listen to Paul and Katie's alterna­tive music madness on Nocturne, Thursday nights on 88.9 FM from midnight until 2 am.  
Desperately seeking BYU tickets  SCHOOL? JOIN THE INDIANA  by Friday, Sept. 16.  
Will Pay great $$$$$$$$$$$$$. Call Sarah at 273-8474 or 631-5323.  Need 2 Michigan Tix GA's or Student  @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ @ Need 2 GA's for BYU. Please call  ARMY NATIONAL GUARD. GOOD LEADERSHIP POSITIONS AVAIL­ABLE NOW. CALL MAJOR TIM  Fun work-good tips! DJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJ  LIST,EN UP KEENAN 3N! Bring out your cash! See Bob or Troy.  
BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU  Call Peter 2n-3109  Katie 282-1603  WARRICK (219) 234-9258.  Coming soon to a Sunday night  
seeking purdue and be ga's karenx3792  4 SALE ...Stud Tix Booklet  Two married student football book­lets for sale.  FRESHMEN-SOPHOMORES: LEARN LEADERSHIP AND EARN  STEREO FOR SALE Used 1991 Nakamichi 2-stack  near you ... SEA OF SIN, on 88.9 FM  
Best Offer. x29n  Call 273-4435, or message, before  MONEY FOR SCHOOL. INDIANA  Cd/Cassette Player  
Need MICHIGAN tix. Will trade BYU or AIRFORCE Ga's & $$$$$$  I NEED MICHIGAN GA'S.272-6306  11 :OOpm Friday.  ARMY NATIONAL GUARD. CALL MAJOR TIM WARRICK (219)  AM/FM Receiver. antenna incl. Two 9" speakers, remote control  An Ode to Coffee  
Call Brett @289-6988 NEED PAIR OF MARRIED STU­DENT SEASON TIX. JOHN 800­257-7210 EXT 1152. TO TRADE -8 (6 TOGETHER) STANFORD FOR FSU. CHRIS OR  NEED BOTH MICH GA'S & SEA­SON STUD BKL TS $$$$$$ PETE@ 287-4302. HELP! I NEED 2 GEN. ADM + 1 STU TIX FOR MICHIGAN GAME. CALLX3572.  Need 4 Navy Ga's David x3406 NEED 2 GAs TO PURDUE CALL x3213 ***ATTENTION ALL VERY •••  234-9258. PERSONALS WANTED:  Call Pee Wee x1385 %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% HEY SHELL-DOG! Don't forget your hooch on your 20th birthday!  0. Coffee, drug of PLS majors and Observer staff, May you always stimulate life Back into our minds Your sinful black liquid is ambrosia Let us sink into the depths of caffeine.  
ED BULLEIT 800-786-8723.  •• COMPASSIONATE FEMALES**  EXERCISERS WHO ARE LOOK­ %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%  
$$NEED$$ 2 MICHIGAN GAS CALL JOHN AT  need michigan tix. call Amy 273-2871 Will trade 4 BYU GA's for 4  Desperately need 1 Stud. Tix for HTH at Purdue and BYU gamesllt Please call Steve x3213  ING FOR A FUN, ENERGETIC AEROBICS PROGRAM. JOIN US AT JAZZERCISE, GEORGETOWN SHOPPING CEN­ TAIL GATER SUPPLIES! STATE LINE PARTY STORE locat­ Can Mariah Carey sing anything but covers these days? And !thought that I had little creativity ...  
$ 273-6138 $  Stanford GA's. Call Scott (NO 91) @ (201)402-9372  *****HELPI!I**** Plane tickets are  TER. 277-0111.  ed on Ml side of Stateline Road. Munchies, ice cream, beverages,  GO IRISH! BEAT MICHIGAN!  
I need 3-4 Michigan GA's  bought, the hotel room reserved...  LESS THAN 10 MINS. FROM  etc.  
Please call Jon at x1620  Please Please Please Sell me your 4 PURDUE GA's  all I need is 2 BYU GA'st Willing to pay $$$ ... call Jen at X4820  CAMPUS. STUDENT DISCOUNTS AVAIL­ Notre Dame Discount  Friday I'm in love ....  
Have pairs of Stanford and Airforce GA's willing to trade for Michigan or Fl. State GAs!l! Contact x4097  all together. I have $$$. Heather 4-2688 Call me firstltlllllllltlllt  I HAVE 2 STANFORD GA'S. WILL TRADE FOR 2 FLA.ST. TIX.  ABLE. PRAY TO ST. JUDE, PATRON OF  Tonight: The 1st meeting of the The Ted Leo Fan Clubll! If you  Bob Hoffman! KABOB? Or is it BOBERT?  
asap.  CALL TED 256-5727  IMPOSSIBLE CAUSES.  know what it is, you know what it is.  

ATTENTION JUNIORS! CLASS RINGS ARE NOW AVAILABLE FOR PICKUP ,­RINGS MAY BE PICKED UP IN THE RING OFFICE SPECIAL RING OFFICE HOURS SEPT. 12-16 9 a.m.--4:30p.m Closed 12 p.m. -­1 p.fn.  
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus" Open Monday through Saturday 9 a.m.-5 p.m.  

The Observer • SPORTS 
;.­
Ketsu-Ka· 

Martial Art form practical self-defense and emphasizes both nh\rst.-,<::···!ieplterntber and mental conditlon:tng.t.. /A~~u~~ 
emestl:lr long course in Rockne Rm 219 :00 and Sund 2: 
~t-1 Esp ~tr ~1) 
........ 0 
~ Spanish Mass .­
domingo, 11 de Septiembre de 1994 
11:30 a.m. Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Celebrante Padre Patrick Neary, c.s.c. 

Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 


• 
Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 
"'Airfares  Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates.  
Low airfares to Europe.  
"'Rail Passes  Rail Passes issued in our office!  
No service fee!  
Timetables, prices, tickets available!  
"'Experience  Over 20 years experience working with  
Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students  
and faculty travelling to Europe.  

We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus ­(219) 271-4880 
Fram the writer and producer of THE COMMITMENTS and the director of MY BEAUTIFUL LAUNDRETTE and DANGEROUS LIAISONS. 
eeEXCEPTIONALLY 
FUNNY!" 
·V-o c..,, THE NEW YORk TMIIEI 
HHILARIOUS! 

Stephen Frears rediscovers 
.... _
the essence of comedy! Exquisitely written, directed and acted!" 
·.lack Mathews, NEW YORK N£WSDAY 
I! ~£~TJ.I~~ '.l)
TOAONTOIHTERfCAtlOMAl 
FUIFESlWAL 
BEST ACTOR 
am~~JGGa...
( 
CICAGO""""""'*"
FUIFlSTWAI. 

.... 
The Highly Acclaimed New Comedy Directed by Stephen Frears and written by Roddy Doyle 
IRF!!!i!El. ... ". ··•·· . k ,....... , •...-........ '"' lC}) ,.~ 

• 
page 22 
• SMC VOU..EYBALL 
Belles open with easy win 
By JENNIFER LEWIS Saint Mary's Sporrs Editor 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team opened their season 
with  a  2-1  win  over  
Manchester  College  last  
night.  

The Belles suffered from opening match jitters in their first game, losing 2-15, but dominated during the second and third games, winning 15­4 and 15-1. 
Transfer student Kelley Prosser scored all fifteen points in the final game including six kills. 
The Belles were challenged more offensively then defen­sively, according to Schroeder-Biek. They expect­ed more of a defensive team. 
Freshman Betsy Connolly started her year off with seven kills and four blocks. Junior Sara Stronczek also had seven kills, but freshman Meg Kelly lead the team with ftfteen. 
"I expected a lot out of this team for the first game," said Schroeder-Biek, "because they have shown me a lot of their skills in practice." 
"I was really excited about the way we played as a team," said Connolly. "It's a great team and I am really happy to be a part of it." 
Team members comment­ed that they felt like they have been playing together for a long time, according to Scroeder-Biek. The team is defmitely unified. 

~~-------------·------------~--------~--­
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 9, 1994 
Soccer 
continued from page 32 
On the other side, the offense is going to have to keep the pressure on. 
As the fourth leading scorer last year, senior midfielder Keith Carlson is being counted on to play a big role. 
"Carlson has a great shot and is a great scorer," junior for­ward Bill Lanza said. "He is expected to be a big part of our offense this year." 
If the Irish are going to beat the Buckeyes, they will need solid games from both Engesser and Carlson. 
FAMOUS 


DINE IN OR CARRY OUT 
SZE-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AMERICAN DISHES 
"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
•Private 
Dining Booths 

•Fresh 
Ingredients 

•No 
Mass Production 

•Healthy 
Family Style Dining 

•Vegetarian 
Menu 


For Reservations 

& Carry Out Call: @!jfNTAI ,.._, 
272-6702 ;.• 

For Delivery Call 272-2-EAT 6329 University Commons 
(Across from University Park MaU) South Bend, IN 46635 
e,~~ VISA 

"This is an important game for us," Berticelli said. "It's important that we focus on this 
ATTENTION! 
game and be one-hundred per­cent ready to play. We can't be thinking about our win against Northwestern. It's also an im­portant game because in leads into our conference play as we face Northern Illinois next. " 
"This is going to be a physical and rough game," adds En­gesser. "We beat them in a close game (1-0) last year, and I expect it to be exciting again this year." 
Yet, the feeling has to be good about this game as Berticelli says: 
"I think we're focused and I think we're ready." 
Fmay II Ali-IOPII Salllrday 4PY. 10 PM 

JOHNKRYK 
will appear at the 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
on Saturday Morning 
September 1Oth from 9:30-11:30 a.m. 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
"on the campus" 
will be open from 
8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Saturday September lOth 
OFF-CAMPUS GRADUATE & UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS 
University student rules and regulations are contained in du Lac: Student Life Policies and Procedures. 
Copies are available in the following locations: Student Government Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune Student Center & The Office of Residence Life, 315 Main Building. 
Pick one up today! 
~-: 
Score Big with Heavenly Ham Tailgater Specials 
"Touchdown" ... $5.00 
Home Saturday  Sandwich of Choice  
Games  (Ham or Turkey), Chips,  Mon-Fri  
8:00-2:00  Fresh Cookie, Coke  10 a.m.-6:30p.m.  
Pick up on way to game  

Order by Wednesday Prior to game 
"Golden Domer" 6 Sandwiches (Ham or Turkey) 2# Potato Salad or Baked Beans 12 oz. bag of Chips and Dip 6 Cokes, Plates, Plasticware Cooler or Picnic Basket $54.95 Refills $49.95 
2307 Edison Comer of Edison and Ironwood ( 1/2 mile East of Stadium) 
Phone: 288 ..4267 Fax: 288..4240 
"Rockne T ailgater" Ham{furkey Sandwich Platter 1 1/2 #Potato Salad 1 1/2 # Baked Beans Chips & Dip, Dessert Tray, Coca Cola, Plates, Plasticware & Napkins 6 Servings $59.95 12 Servings $109.95 
----~----­

Friday, September 9, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll. 
,._.. 
NCAA suspends Ohio State player for violations 
By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Its big-play capacity dimin­ished if not crippled by the two­game suspension of Joey Gal­loway, Ohio State will rely on a variety of weapons to make up for the deep threat it lost. 
The NCAA on Wednesday sus­pended Galloway, a fifth-year senior split end, for taking $200 from a person the university 

November 1%, 1994 ,£, 
Ca~:lics 
~ 
The C~n Gang~~;~ 

T-Shirts $12.00 each 
plus $3.00 postage & 
handling per shirt. 
Sizes: Lor XL 
Send check or 
money order to: 
Rose of Sharon P.O Box 43 
New Woodstock, NY 13122 
identified as a fmancial adviser in January. He repaid the money with interest late last week, but not until after the NCAA had learned of the pay­ment. 
No.18 Ohio State plays at 25th-ranked Washington Saturday. Galloway did not fly with the team Thursday to Seattle. He will also miss the Sept. 17 home opener against Pittsburgh. 
"We have to become closer. We have to circle the wagons," Ohio State coach John Cooper said Wednesday. "Some other people have to take up the slack. Obviously, we're going to miss Joey Galloway. We're going to miss his big-play potential." 
Last year Galloway caught 4 7 passes for 946 yards and matched Cris Carter's school record of 11 touchdown recep­tions in a season. 
United States was the Vitascope Hall in New Orleans. It screened its first film in the summer of 1896 
IJ) 
.!: 
" 
£: c:: 
IJ) 
Q 
0 
0 
" 
L IJ) 
" rn 
.!: 
" 
IJ) > 
E IJ) &tor~ e'leF_ything0 
" 
(J) L <,:::; IJ) 
Wom Fried GTeenTomatoes .!: f­
•
•
•
• 

Sale 
up to 20 video IJ) cassettes with this 1l .!: " stackable system. 
IJ) 
(J) :J 
IJ) 
.!: (J) 
.!: 
OJ 
:J 0 c:: 
IJ) 
ti 
1l 
c:: 
~ ~ 
0 E >-to 1\ed /-lot Chili Peppers.
rn 
IJ) 
.!: 0. :J 
w 
c:: 
OJ 
1l The Flip Disc
0 
storage wallet
i. 
rn holds 12 CDs. IJ) ~ Made of durable rn nylon with a rn heavy-duty metal >­zipper.
.0 
" 
5.99sale 
" 
m 
... 
£: c:: 
IJ) 
" 
" [ 
~ 
(J) 
rn 
;: ·m 
~ 
lJ j3 Ul 
0. 0 .!: 
~ 
IJ) 
c:: 
:J 
"IJ) 
.!: f­
1 
6.99 Sale. Store up to 72 CDs with this stackable system. 
llfAIIIIIIIIIIillll.. 4.99 Sale. Protect audio cassettes with one of these portable cases. Choose from three styles: 10-, 20-or 36­cassette capacity. 
• 
2.99sale 
®!~9A~l 

This year, Ohio State's sports information department was promoting him for the Reisman Trophy. He was playing like a Reisman contender, too. 
In a 34-10 victory over Fresno State on Aug. 29, Galloway had two catches for 88 yards -one a 67-yard touchdown bomb ­and also scored on an 8-yard touchdown run when he reversed his field after taking a pitch to the left side, out-racing the Fresno State defense to the right corner of the end zone. 
His starting position will be filled by Buster Tillman, a sophomore who caught three passes for 50 yards in the open­er. 
But can Tillman fill Gal­loway's spikes when it comes to scoring touchdowns? Galloway averaged a touchdown every 
4.3 times he touched the ball last season and had two TDs in four touches against Fresno State. 
"Basically we'll stick with the same approach," OSU offensive coordinator Joe Hollis said. "I can't stand here ... and say that the play selection will be identi­cally the same. But the general philosophy and general approach will be the same." 
Washington coach Jim Lambright said his team was looking forward to the compar­ison between Galloway and an­other Reisman hopeful, Husky tailback Napoleon Kaufman. 
But, he added, "The Husky defensive coaches will not be disappointed by the absence of Galloway from the starting line­up." 
Galloway, the university and the NCAA did not disclose the identity of the person who had given the $200 to Galloway. 
The Columbus Dispatch, citing unidentified sources, reported in its Thursday editions that the financial adviser was Michael Weisberg of Bannockburn, Ill. Weisberg did not return tele­phone messages left by The Associated Press. 

22nd Annual Summer Program ND-SMC Students 
LONDON ROME May 24-June23 June 18-July 17 
Courses offered in MUSIC, EDUCATION, BUSINESS & ECONOMICS, HISTORY, ITALIAN 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING-October 3 
6:30 pm Carroll Hall • Free Pizza • 
Past students and faculty participants will be present. For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
The 

Breathless 
Tour 

Saturday, Sept24 
TWO SHOWS: 

6:30pm & 9:30pm 
MORRIS CIVIC 
AUDITORIUM 
Ttd«u availablr11t the Morris CivicAlJiturium, Tmda&rordr anJMLthodMusic (CanamJMJ//F.Jlthart) 
Owgrbyplxmellt 

235-9190or 1-800-537-6415 
&m..rJSeating Awilable 

D t 
ii ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••Advertised sale prices good through Monday, October 31, 1994.• 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, September 9, 1994
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS 
-, • Cm.tEGE foorsAu 
Navy cornerback deals with adversity 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press 
ANNAPOLIS 
Chris Hart is the co-captain of Navy's football team, a senior who likely will never don a hel­met and shoulder pads after this year. 
That is motivation enough for the talented cornerback to have the finest season of his life. Hart's biggest source of inspi­ration stems from an agonizing tragedy. 
Hart has dedicated this sea­son to his fiancee, who died of heart failure last May. Annette Baltimore, who learned as a child that she had an abnormal heart, was told by doctors that she no longer had a life-threat­ening problem. 


But she collapsed when walk­ing up the stairs after watching Hart play in Navy's annual Blue-Gold game last spring. Baltimore, 23, died shortly after that. 
"How can you ever prepare for something like that?" Hart said. "Believe it or not, I'm a better person for it, a stronger person. Thank God for that." 
Soon after the funeral, Hart trained 70 plebes for their first 

1357 N. Ironwood Corner of Edison (f) Ironwood 

year at the Naval Academy. He also immersed himself in foot­ball, working to improve upon a 1993 season in which he had 63 tackles and a team-high three interceptions. 
Hart's steadfast religious beliefs helped him cope with the loss. His resilience is a source of inspiration for his teammates -as well as coach George Chaump. 
"Chris is an amazing guy. He has strong faith and strong beliefs, and I'm certain that's what pulled him through," Chaump said. "His inner 
$5 off with this ad Offer expres Noveml::er 11994 Ml.H mve &ucbl.t ID 2346767 
full &rvice calon l1air e ckin • Nails 
AVEDA· 
THE ART AND SCIENCE OF PURE FLOWER AND PlANT ESSENCES 
Hair Carr e Skin Care e Colour Coamelk:a 

lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship 
Kick-off Picnic Sunday, September 11th 12:30-3:00 pm at Potowatomi Park 
Great food and fun! 
strength makes him a great leader and a great captain. To bounce back the way he did, it's no wonder everyone looks up to him." 
"Being chosen as captain was a really big honor," he said. "That's one reason why this season is so important to me. I have to set an example and be a leader, on and off the field." 
Hart has fulfilled his obliga­tions. Sometimes his mind starts to wander back to happi­er times, and suddenly his unbridled spirit turns somber. 
That's when defensive back Joe Speed shouts a few friendly words across the field. 
M~il~ThliiDcmrrihl ®®~ §1luncrll1 IE1calliPJ IPrr®~&miD 
Informational Meeting 
Sunday September 11 at 6:00 pm at the esc 
sign ups will be held at this time as well 
Call: Meghan at 277-6437 or Randolph at 634-1154 
DOOLITTLE'S PUB 
291--6544 
Home of the Doolittles Amazing Sub & 1/2 lb Pub Burger Serving Food 11 a.m.--Midnight daily! Join the Around the World Import Club 
4407 S. Ironwood 
HOURS: Every Sunday Night "Rock Sunday" 
! Mon.-Sat 11a.m. .-3a.m. 301 Dart Tournament We'll meet at the library circle at 12:30 for rides. I Sun 12.-12 $5 entry, 100% pay back 
~----------------------------------~~~----------------~----~----~~--~ 

NOTR  High Hotel Prices  
DAME e  r·..:........:--3··-r_,:.·o·Jl1yJ.__sS  00  
.....  :  ;•..........•.....••.)  .  ~  PLUS TAX  
2 NU~iHTS  PER PERSON  
ONLV •• !·=..:.  
'  

n' Irish Football Weekend on mous Cocoa Beach! Only 1 hour ·······s···aow_J;·:.o-.:l·r.·:.:or:e:a.i·:::$eaC.h.::.:.:.::::·:······:.::::::.:.·.·.·.·.·.·:_·::::·:·:·.·.. ~~---·· s the Best -Yalue:.:.in:.:.CentraJ:::::Fioriaa·:::·::.:-:·.·.·.·.-............·.­
it..is._t.@U.Qr made tQ.·,.··t·h4i.':·ai:g.:::Ga.Q1eJ······...................................,.,...,.........:••:.,.....-.__. 
-.-•••••••••• •.·.·.·-···· •••••• 0. ·-··· •• •••••••••• •.•••-•••• ·-················· ••• :::: :·:·: :·:·:·:.:.:::: :.::.:•••••••·_ • ­
·:·::·:~:_:_:_::·:·:·::.:.:.:.~....... 
-
_____j 
r-----·------------------------------------------~------~------------~------------------­
page 25 

Friday, September 9, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

WHAT'S NEW FOR 
MEN'S GUESS COTTON DENIM dEANS 
JUNIORS' GUESS COTTON DENIM dEANS 
•3 LENGTHS •9 SIZES •5 WASHES & COLORS
•3 LENGTHS •9 SIZES •8 WASHES & COLORS 
BACK TO SCHOOL 
PASCAL JEANS, $62
5-POCKET JEANS, $58 

CALL TOLL FREE 24 HOURS ADAY 1·800·528·2345 
Make checks payable to and mail to: 
The Observer 

The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is 
PO BoxQ
a vital source of information on people and events Notre Dame, IN 46556
in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found 
D Enclosed is $60 for one academic year. D Enclosed is $35 for one semester. 
The Observer an indispensible link to the two cam­Name ____________________________________________________
puses. Complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Address---------City -----State__ Zip ____ 
.· 
Friday, September 9, 1994
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS 
"[Eddy] transferred from George Mason for 1993, pro­Despite all the controversy Petrucelli isn't worried about UMass, where she wasn't start­pelling them to a 18-3-2 record regarding the George Mason Renola being unprepared. 
Goalies 
continued from page 32 
For Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli, the situation in Fairfax is hardly encouraging, and not only because it means a tougher match for his squad. He questions the ethics of the Patriot program. 
"Within NCAA rules it is legal," said Petrucelli, "but I don't know about the ethics of bringing those players in. Neither of those players is graduating from George Mason-they're there to play soccer." 
Attempts to contact University of Massachusetts and Providence College soccer departments were unsuccess­ful, which was not a surprise to Petrucelli. · 
"Many people aren't happy with the situation," he said, "but most aren't going to say any­thing about it." 
While George Mason head coach Jac Cicala was also unavailable for comment, Patriot assistant coach Paul Ellis offered his view of the sit­uation. 
ing," said Ellis. "She was under Reanna Scurry, who was also an All-American, and is now a member of the women's nation­al team. Skye decided she did not want to split time." 
"In [Mead's] case, she was red-shirted as a freshman, and Providence doesn't offer a fifth year of eligibility." 
Ellis also confirmed that Eddy and Mead were not receiving George Mason degrees. 
"[Eddy's] degree is coming 
from UMass," he said.  "Jen's  
degree  will  come  from  
Providence."  

While Ellis's explanations legitimize the actions of Eddy and Mead, questions remain about the role of Cicala and George Mason in the transfers. The All-American migration to Fairfax began in 1993, just one year after Cicala's arrival at George Mason. 
The Patriots qualified for the NCAA women's soccer "final four" three times during the mid-1980s, but posted only a 8­6-3 mark in 1992, Cicala's first season. Despite that less-than­overwhelming record, All­American Eddy decided to join and a trip to the national title game. 

While hopes of a return to the NCAA final make Mead's trans­fer more logical, one can only speculate about the continued attractiveness of George Mason to All-American goalies. 
Ellis offered an explanation for George Mason's good for­tune with transfers: 
"We have girls from the local area who go away to school, and then after the first year decide that being away from home isn't what they want." 
Yet, Eddy had three seasons at Massachusetts before deciding to transfer, and the George Mason media guide lists Mead's hometown as Raynham, Massachusetts. 
Even if these transfers are entirely legitimate by NCAA standards, the back-to-hack transfers of non-degree-seeking athletes to George Mason leads to speculation about the school's academic integrity. 
''I'm not George Mason," said Petrucelli. "And if their univer­sity wants to do this, there's not much I can do." 
goaltenders, Notre Dame keep­er Jen Renola still has the chal­lenge of living up to her All­American opponents. 
"The first thing for Renola," said Petrucelli, "is that every­one's going to be comparing her to the other goalie." 
And since Notre Dame's first two opponents have managed just three shots against Renola, this weekend's matches may be her real season openers. But 
"Jen wants to be and will be an important part of this team," said Petrucelli. "She doesn't want to stand on the other end of the field for ninety minutes and watch." 
"When [Renola] is a senior, she will be as good as those other goalies." 
And Petrucelli certainly hopes that in two more seasons his prediction comes true-unless Renola is playing for George Mason. 

"An Evening In the Orient" 
starring 

Ruby Jazayre and Jasmin Jahal 
also featurmg Ten Troupes and Eleven Soloists from around the Midwest presenting 
Authentic Middle Eastern Belly Dancing 
Bartell Communiry Center Theatre 904 N. Main Mishawakn, IN 
Doors open 7:00p.m.-Show starts 8:00p.m. $10.00 per person in advance $15.00 per person at the door for ticker informarion conrocr: Rulry ]a,ayre 219-234-3355 
'V £ ~ • Mental illness has warning signs, too. Withdrawal from social activities. Excessive anger. These could be the first warning signs of a mental illness. Unfortunately, most of us don't recognize the signs. Which Is tragic. Because mental illness can be treated. In fact, 2 out of 3 people who get help, get better. For a free booklet about mental Illness and Its warning signs, write to or call: National Mental Heallh Association P.O. Box 17389, Washington, D.C. 20041 1-800-969-NMHA. Learn to see the warning signs.  IN SUSAN'S FIRST FEW YEARS, SHE WAS AUDITING MULTIMILLION OOLLAR COMPANIES, BUT FOCUSING ON SOME MUCH SMALLER FIGURES. Susan Gallagher made two important discoveries during her first three years at Arthur Andersen. One was her talent for Litigation Consulting, which she provides for a wide variety of clients through our Specialty Consulting division. Her second discovery came after work. It was the joy of helping children. Over the years, Susan has volunteered with the Boys & Girls Clubs of Chicago. Working to help children comes nalurally to Susan, because it's the smaller figures in life that are really the most important. Arthur Andersen is an equal opportunity employer. ARTHUR ANDERSEN ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co SC Accelerate your career  

--------------, 
Friday, September 9, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 27 

wo earns. Two goals. 
One ball. 

The 16th-ranked Fighting Irish of The Buckeyes of 
Notre Dame vs. Ohio State 
Alumni Field behind tbe J.A.~.~. 
7:30 TC»I'II~I-IT! L________a:f:te:r~th~e~p~ep_r_al~ly---------· 
• t:=REE BLIMPIE SUBS TO THE FIRST 1,500 STUDENTS 
• FREE ADMISSION WITH STUDENT ID! 
'· l ~ 
I l 
·-­ 
I  
...,..  II  
I  
I  
'  
I  
I  
•.  j  
1  
I  

l 
I 
j 
-) 
• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 

Belles' soccer plagued by injuries 
By BECKY MAYERNIK team and only consist of two Sullivan is also suffering from a Sporrs Writer seniors," said sophomore for­ankle injury, but is planning on ward Lisa Nichols, "there are a playing tomorrow afternoon. The Saint Mary's soccer lot of strong freshmen and Regardless of the injuries, team will confront Lake Forest strong new sophomores." the team is confident about 
tomorrow in their opening Injuries are troubling the tomorrow's game. 
game of the season at Lake team right now. Approximately Forest. Despite the fact that half the team is hurt , accord­the Belles are a young team ing to Nichols. this year with many injuries, Senior Captain Jenny Ferry they are optimistic about the is out with a knee injury, as is upcoming season. sophomore halfback Brigid 
"Although we're a young Keyes. Senior captain Maura 
S implY 
• • • t; st'
the ue · 
20 TANS ALMOST FREE! WITH EVERY PACKAGE PURCHASE! 
WITH THIS ADI FOR A VERY LIMITED TIMEI 
CALL TODAY 272-7653 
FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD. 23 lii!MRSrTY COMMONS. SOUTH BEND, IN 

MUFFIN MAN RESTAURANT 
Delivers Philly Cheesesteaks Chicken Cheesesteaks 
1408 Elwood 
South Bud Carry out or Delivery
237-9069 

page 28 The Observer • SPORTS 

t~c ,gt  , , "  ;\liNORITYCAREER  
F 0  R U lVI  

:-CHIC A G 0 

SPONSORED BY: HEW/IT ASSOCIATES, ARTHUR ANDERSEN, ANDERSEN CONSULTING, AND LEO BURNETT COMPANY, INC 
FREE FOR MINORITY JUNIORS AND SENIORS! Friday, January 27, 1995 The Chicago Marriott Downtown 
PARTIAL LIST OF ATTENDING EMPLOYERS! 
Andersen Consulting Ernst & Young Northern Illinois Gas Arthur Andersen & Co. Goldman Sachs & Co. Prudential Securities Boston Consulting Group Harris Bancorp SmithKline Beecham Capital Group Hewitt Associates Swiss Bank Chubb Group oflnsurance Co's LaSalle Partners Towers Perrin CNA Insurance Companies Leo Burnett Co., Inc. University ofChicago Citibank Merril Lynch WWGrainger 
PLUS MANY MORE!!! 
To Register Please Send Your Updated Resume By Nov. 1 To: (write your top 3 industry preferences on the back ofyour resume) 
Crimson & Brown Associates 1770 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 332, Cambridge, MA 02140 TEL(617)868-018l FAX (617)868-0187 
SUPER SIBS 
Are You the Siblin_g of a Person with a 
Disatiility? 
If so..,_ Would You like to share the Experiences
witn a younger Child who also has a Sibling
with a Disability? 
Organizational meeting Monday September 12 
7:00 P.M. C.S.C. Lounge 
If interested, please contact Amy Dobbelaere (634-1296) 
r-------------,
OS 
Buy Any Dinner At 
Of Edison 
Regular Price and
16616 Edison Road Mishawaka, IN 46545 


Get Second Dinner 
Phone 
EDISON 


At 50% Off 
(219) 256-2936 

(of equal or lesser value) 
E2 
KING GYRO~ 
~ 
u
Mon-Thurs11-11 
-::c 

Fri & Sat 11-12 expires Sep. 24th Sun 11-10 
L-------------.J
Value Platters r-------------,
Generous Portions at Value Prices 
:Buy Any Sandwich At:
CHICKEN VALUE PlATTER: Serves 2-4............... $9.99 
One Whole chicken with 1 large Greek salad and 3 pieces ofpita bread 

: Regular Price and :
FAMILY CHICKEN VALUE PlATTER: Serves 10-12 ..... 29.99
.. 
Three whole chickens, 2 large Greek salads and 10 pieces ofpita bread 

IGet Second Sandwichl 
RIB VALUE PLATTER: Serves 2-4..................... 21.99 I I Two full slabs ofbarbecued bally back ribs, 1 large Greek salad and 3 pieces ofpita bread I At 50% Off I FAMILY RIB VALUE PLATTER: Serves 10-12 ........... 59.99 
Five full slabs ofbarbecued bally back ribs, 2 large Greek salads and 10 pieces ofpita bread : Normal Price : 
COMBO PLATTER: Serves 2-4........................14.99 
I (of equal or lesser value) I 
One halfchicken and one full slab ofbarbecued baby back ribs, 1 large Greek salad and 3 pieces ofpita bread 
I I 
FAMILY COMBO PlATTER: Serves 10-12 ..............39.99 
I I 
One and one-half chickens and three full slabs ofbarbecued bally back ribs, 2 large Greek salads and 10 pieces 
ofpita bread : expires Sep. 24th : Assorted Sandwiches, Dinners and Desserts 
L-------------.J 
Friday, September 9, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll 
Cyclones prepare for Hawkeyes 
By CHUCK SCHOFFNER 
Associated Press 
IOWA CITY 

One of the longest weeks in the 103-year history of Iowa State football is finally about to end. 
The Cyclones have been bat­tered on all fronts after their 28-14 season-opening loss to Northern Iowa. Fans are grum­bling. Players are constantly being asked to explain what happened. A student senator even wrote a resolution calling for the firing of coach Jim Walden. 
But Saturday, Iowa State has a chance to make everyone for­get last week. With a victory at Iowa, the gloom over Cycloneland would evaporate. 
''I'm just looking forward to getting out and redeeming our­selves, especially up front in the line because we feel like we have a lot to prove now," offen­sive tackle Tim Kohn said. 
"We came out a little overcon­fident (against Northern Iowa} and now we have to prove we have the experience everybody says we have and just come out and dominate the line of scrim­mage." 


SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 9:00AM OUTPOST SPORTS 

(3602 N. GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA, IN 259-1000 
ALL EQUIPMENT WILL BE PROVIDED BY ROLLERBLADE 
~~ 631-6100 
And if that happens? 
"I think if we come out 
against Iowa fired up and come 
out with a big win, everybody 
will forget about this UNI 
stuff," Kohn said. 
It'll take more than bravado 
to get the Cyclones past Iowa, 
however. 

The Hawkeyes showed a lot of 
muscle and speed in routing 
Central Michigan 52-21 last 
week. Plus, they have the 
added confidence of 11 straight 
victories over Iowa State. 
When a team dominates a 
series like that, history tells the 
Iowa players they'll find a way 
to win regardless of how the 
game is going. Last year was a 
perfect example. 
Iowa State cut a 31-7 Iowa to 
lead to 31-28 and had the 
momentum after recovering an 
onside kick at midfield with just 
under two minutes left. But 
Iowa's Maurea Crain knocked 
the ball from quarterback Bob 
Utter, the Hawkeyes recovered 
and held on. 
13TH ANNUAL 
COLORADO 
..... 
A 

NOBODY DOES SKI BREAKS BETTER' 
find out more about the Saaament of 


Are you a baptized Catholic who has never been Confirmed? Would you like to prepare for Confirmation with other Notre Dame students? 
It's a wonderful opportunity to ... 
~ learn and talk about your faith ~ meet new friends 
INFORMATlONAL MEETING: 
Sunday, September 11 6:30p.m. Faculty Dining Room (upstairs in the South Dining Hall) 
Questions?? Call Darrell Paulsen at 631-5242 or stop by the Badin Campus Ministry office 
Would you like to sponsor acandidate for Confirmation? Call Darrell at 631·5242 or come to the sponsors' info session at 6:30p.m. on Monday, September 12 in the Faculty Dining Room 
ye~r x;<;";~:~:;~·~······J··~··ive ii#¥ 
·an 50th at meet, in ering the -.a,un;•uo.. individual 
.(l.i,Q••··~!l9l.'(>also ended his a successful ······personal best ·10,000 meter ll~tnpi•()nsbip course. Three· ...,.,,n,,.,. Cowan also 
alnJtSOnalbest 31:28~7 in 92nd 

.... 
-
fiQ~T UNITED METHODI~T CHURCH 333 N. Main &.. &luth Bend (Parti!J8 available behind the church) JOIN U~ fOR THE fALL GATHERING &nday. &pt.ember 11. 1994 Wor.Mip &!Vices 8:45 <£111{)() a.m. &nday &hool for allagC!l 9:45 a.m. Nur!!Cry care provided throushoul the momifl8 Dr. Ellwocx:! ("Woody") .Smith, &nior Dll8tor Tim Robiron. Director of Music/()rgani& Cindy &Jium, Director of Christian Education and Youth Minislrie.!l 233-9463  
Welcome Parents! Come Join Us At • Breakfast served all day •Lunch •Dinner • Or a snack ANYTIME Just Minutes from Campus OPEN a; ~24 HOURS CD E ca1710 c N.lronwood 277-7400  



... 


The Observer I Eric Ruethling Jenny Birkner and the Notre Dame volleyball team face their first ranked opponent of the season Saturday in The Big Four Classic. 






Electric Racing Series Champion 


braz1er® 
"A fun place to be on St. Rd. 23!" 
St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood Near Martin's Small Blizzard or Breeze Double Burgers 
now on sale for only
$119 . 
' .99' 
from 916-9/25 • 
~for all of Septembe.
Informational Meeting 

NO~~ HIRING I 
sept. 13th at 6:30 P.M. 

r$f0 OFF:lr($TcJ<en-strrplrs-o¢OFF1 
any Royal Treat II Basket II 1 
I (Mode with Dairy Queen Soft Serve or Yogurt) d C h • k
$299 G
356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

I Banana Split . II II rl.11e IC en I 
Peanut Buster Parfa1t S d • h IHotFudgeBrownieDelight II .II an WIC.I Nutty Double Fudge •
AlL MAJoRs WFLCOME TO ATTFND 

I Strawberry Shortcake • I I • II • I 
Not valid with any other offer. Not valid with any other offer. Not valid with any other offer. 
Umil 2. Good 01 St Rd. 23 Only. .J L Umil 2. Good 01 St Rd. 23 Only. .J L Umil 2. Good 01 St Rd. 23 Only. .J
L 



kinko•s® 

The finishing touuh.
the copy center 
2202-C South Bend Ave. Greenwood Plaza 271-0398 



At Kinko's, with more inventory and equipment than most offices 109 E. Jefferson can carry, we have the capability to customize and put the finishing touch on your documents.
Jefferson Centre 

Tonight at 7:30 the Notre Dame Soccer Team will try to put the 
TONIGHT UNDER THE UGHTS!
234-8709 

finishing touch on Ohio State. 
1:30 I NDISMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------­
Friday, September 9, 1994 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE SCOTT ADAMS 


Gf<.EAI ... Tl-\ERE GOES THE PLAN 
Ct\ART 
57 Turkish generals 58 Bygone birds 62 Pub order 63 Stuff 64 Friend in Firenze 
65 Western Electric co-founder Barton 
66 Like many tests 67 Kind of attitude 
DOWN 
1 Baked, fermented dish 2 Wayside, for one 3 Noted resort 4 Titanic 5 Unwatered 6 Certain sir 7 Launch stopper a Herpetologist's study 9 Count 10 Math figure 11 Esteem 12 Vexes 13 Knight jobs 21 Firkin 22 Get ready to start-or finish 
231956 Mature-Leigh film 
24 Tropical, in a way 




25 Offset, with "for" 46 Kind of casting 55 Ball-shaped cheese
27 Feast 47 Money of ancient Rome 57 Wine capital 
31 Sonnet part 

49 Site of Arizona 59 1969 Jerry 33 Have coming State Rubin book 34 Amphigoric 50 Remove to a 60 Prefix with distance system or sphere 
35 Cobbles 

51 Piazza del 61 -Vicente, 37 Disfigure Duomo site Brazil 
39 Playful 

42 Combination Get answers to any three clues 43 Striped by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute).
44 Hidden 

----------------------,
LIMPOPO! 
After the pep rally Friday, come to 
-....,: .. 
Stonehenge for· 
miDENT UNION BOAJm 

some funky wunky Russian tunes. 
If we're gonna call something "funky wunky," you'd better come, paL ..I 
The Observer • TODAY page 31 
DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

• 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Reactors 6 Ballet prop 10 Word with face 
or place 14 Cat----tails 15 German 
virtuoso Karl 16 Dog of the 
comics 17 Enclosed 18 Glutinous 19Beam 20 "So's your old 
man," e.g. 22 Tense 23 Make-believe 26 Litter 28 Crate, so to 
speak 29 Direct course 
30 Celebrated 32 Not late­breaking news 33 Russian space 
station 36 Salon jobs 38 City south of 
Salem 40 Chemical suffix 41 This puzzle's 
theme 45 Shade 46 Strength 48 Colliery 49 Self-control 52 Strasbourg 
summers 53 "Burnt Norton" 
poet 54 Charters 56 Grinder 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

r------------­
Showing 
Friday & Saturday 

Cushing Auditorium 7:30 & 10:30 p.m. $2
MAVion 
L------------­
• 
SPORTS 
page 32 Friday, September 9, 1994 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
Big home test for Irish 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Sports Writer 
One of the main precepts of war is to never extend yourself too thin. The .-----..._._., same holds true for sports. 
So when the Notre Dame men's soccer team plays their pressure 
oriented
-------"-'---.....
offense, they Engesser must have faith in their defense to stall any counter attack. 
• WoMEN's SoccER 
One piece of this solid defense is sophomore Brian Engesser, who shall be counted on heavily when the Irish face Ohio State tonight on Alumni Field at 7:30. 
Last season, he was one of the few freshmen in Irish histo­ry to have started every game, and one only has to look at his consistency and maturity at de­fender to understand why. 
"He (Engesser) is the most solid and consistent defender in our program," coach Mike Berticelli said. "He is ex­tremely dependent. He just makes excellent choices with 




• 

the ball." 
Yet, even with the success of the team, since his arrival, he is one of the most overlooked players on the team. 
"He (Engesser) is probably the most underrated player on the team," Berticelli added. "That's probably because he plays defense, and isn't always involved in the glamorous plays." 
Though overlooked, he is a major part of this defense that will be needed to defuse any pressure from the Buckeyes. 
see SOCCER I page 22 
Go-Go Goalies 
Irish opponent George Mason has a controversial habit of admitting All-American transfers 
ByRIAN AKEY Associate Sports Editor 

When the Notre Dame women's soc­cer team was upset 2-1 by George Mason in the open­ing round of the 1993 NCAA tourna­ment, Irish players were 


forward  to  a  
rematch  this  
season,  when  

George Mason would be with­out their All-
American goaltender Skye Eddy, whose brilliant second-half net play helped the Patriots pull off the upset. 
crushed by the abrupt ending to their most successful season ever. 
Despite their disappointment, the Irish looked cian is likely to develop writer's cramp racking up Fighting Irish goals in today's rematch, because George Mason has replaced Eddy with another All-American goaltender, senior Jennifer Mead. 
While Eddy transferred from the University of Massachusetts for her senior season, Mead spent her first three years at Providence College. The Patriots, it appears, are the 49ers ofNCAA free agency. 
see GOALIES I page 26 

ofnote...
INSIDE ... Irish coach Debbie Brown the Notre Dame See Sports Extra for all the Notre volleyball team travels to Louisville and the Dame versus Michigan football Big Four Classic. 

game details. 
See page 30 







