
!ti1'>11 YF A• IR' <.; ii!; 
. ~I 
I I ""'
·-!'
"'~= 
SAINT
• 
MARY'S 
c: (I l. I 1: Ci E 
Nle iTil' F II · 
Irish out of luck on St. Patrick's Day 

Above right: Officers break up celebrations, using dogs to con­trol the crowds. Above: Morrissey junior Michael LaSalle, 20, is arrested and charged with public intoxication, resisting law enforcement and minor consuming alcohol. 
Public intoxication Disorderly conduct Resisting law enforcement Minor consuming alcohol Selling alcohol without permit 
Police raid spoils annual Lafayette party 
By SARAH DORAN News Editor 
What was supposed to be a harmless student celebration of St. Patrick's Day at Lafayette Square apartments turned out to be a field day for area police last Thursday afternoon. 
Over twenty Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were arrested or cited by police officers from five law enforce­ment agencies for various offenses which ranged from selling alcohol with­out a permit to minor in possession of alcohol, said Sergeant Charles Feirrell 
of the Saint Joseph County police. Police also confiscated 57 kegs of beer and 12 taps from the site, Feirrell said. 
Notre Dame senior Darren Wallis, 22, of 424 N. Frances St., was charged with selling alcohol without a permit. The charge is a class A misdemeanor that carries a maximum $10,000 fme and 1 year prison sentence. Wallis was freed on $100 bond with a Court appearance set for March 31. 
Four Notre Dame students were arrested on charges of public intoxica­tion and disorderly conduct. They are: junior Dennis Ciancio, 21, of Grace Hall, senior Gregg Larson, 22, of Fisher Hall, junior John Gorman, 21, of Morrissey Hall and Graduate student Jonathan Noris of 424 N. Frances St. 
Notre Dame junior Christopher Decker, 21, of 46556 Irish Way, was charged with public intoxication, senior 
see IAFAYEITE/ page 4 
Lugar examines changes in U.S. foreign policy 
By LIZ FORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Foreign policy and economic security were the focus of a "Listening to America" public policy meeting chaired by U.S. Senator Richard Lugar (Ind.) at 
• see GRASSROOTS, page 4 
Notre Dame on Saturday. 
The meeting, one of several sponsored by the National Pol­icy Forum, was the first meet­ing outside of Washington on the topic of "U.S. Leadership in a Changing World." 
"We think it's time for the voices of Hoosiers to be heard in the national debate over for­eign policy issues," said Na­tional Policy Forum Chairman Haley Barbour in a recent press release. 
In addition to Senator Lugar, a panel of Indiana residents with first-hand experience in foreign policy and trade shared personal experiences with those present. 
Neil Pickett, director of re­search and programs at the Hudson Institute in Indianapo­lis, spoke of a sea of dangers facing America both today and in the future. Countries with unstable and uncertain futures such as Bosnia, China, North and South Korea, and Russia pose threats not only to the U.S., but to world peace and se­curity, according to Pickett. 
America is indispensable to world peace and security, he said. "To argue that U.S. lead­ership does not matter is to ar­gue that democracy and eco­nomic security does not mat­ter," he said. 
Carolyn Hegel, a Wabash County farmer and chair of the Indiana Farm Bureau's Wom­en's Committee, stressed the importance of agriculture in In­diana as the largest industry in the state, and the amount agri­cultural products exported each year. A supporter of NAFTA, she told how the free trade laws benefited Indiana's agri­culture industry. 
Peter Fischer, director of sales and marketing, Wood­Mizer Products, Inc., Indi­anapolis, stressed how existing trade laws pose barriers to small companies who wish to expand into international mar­kets by adding to the "non­value added" costs such as du­ties and tariffs. 
After introduction, the panel was then opened to a variety of questions from the public con-can have domestic and interna­tional interests, he said, "Why do we have to have either or?" 

Korea was listed as one of the most important areas for U.S. intervention. "Today North Ko­rea walked out of talks concerning routine inspections of nuclear plants," Lugar said. He said that now economic penalties and sanctions for non­compliance, for which North Korea has already threatened violence. 
"Americans should realize that we could be involved in a second Korean War," Lugar said. 
Lugar eased some fear on the Bosnian situation, saying he had just witnessed the signing of a preliminary treaty between Bosnian Muslims and Croatians at the White House. "Serbia may have decided the situation is as good as its going to get," Lugar said. 
He also reminded those pre­sent of the U.N.'s resolve to up­hold any reasonable settlement. 
Equal concern was expressed about trade and economic se­
cerning foreign policy and eco­Citizens were especially con­curity, although surprisingly,nomic security. Questions were cerned about the United States through a show of hands, most raised about over involvement trying to be "the world's po­of those present seemed to be by U.S. forces in worldwide af­liceman." "We can afford to be in favor of free trade. fairs, dependence on foreign involved in the world in a tar­oil, NATO and NAFTA. geted way," said Pickett. We 
see LUGAR/ page 4 
~-~-~~ 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, March 21, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
b 
It's time to launder 
your karma 


Ah, spring! 
That time of year when birds chirp, flowers blos­som, and young love is fresh in the air; not yet the time of reckless abandon but certainly not that of lethargic hibernation either. Granted we live in South Bend and all these visions of loveliness are Suzy Fry simply visions, but maybe Viewpoint Editor on this second day of spring we can just pre--------­tend -especially when every clothing cata­logue shows tan blondes strewn in purple linens and flower prints running down the beach. 
First stop in our imaginative journey: open­ing day at Wrigley Field. Can there be anything more relaxing than sitting in the outfield bleachers smelling the freshly cut grass, getting a tan, and knowing that the hot dog vender on the other side of the stadium will eventually make his way over not only to your section the sun but to your very seat? I don't think so. 
Or what about reclining on a grassy knoll overlooking a small New England harbor sip­ping lemonade and reading the Sunday morn­ing paper? 
A trip to Rosemont for the annual Dead con­cert would certainly be a fabulous option. Playing frisbee with your dog on the beach isn't too bad either. 
Of course one doesn't have to take an imagi­native stroll down nostalgia lane to cure them­selves of the monotony of their "cabin fever" woes. Nor do they have to go beyond the realm, of ND either. Spring is spring any­where, be it Wrigley Field or our own Frank Eck Stadium. 
Just like a football Saturday at Notre Dame, spring has its own charisma and character that just can't be equaled. It's that fresh feeling of hope that can convince even the most cynical of personalities that a twenty page paper due on Tuesday isn't the end of the world nor is the national debt or an overdrawn check. 
Spring serves as nature's reminder that a rebirth of spirit is possible. It's when we can take our karma to the laundromat just by walk­ing out of the dorm, sitting on a bench and watching a bird gather materials to make its nest. 
Of course this rejuvenation of spirit could occur any day during any season, but there's something about the simplicity of spring that makes such a rekindling not only unadorned and natural but right. 
Call it whatever you like, but there is no denying that such an awakening is as essential to our existence as the very air we breathe. To close ourselves off from this opportunity is like condemning ourselves to the boredom of banality. 
Maybe this Chinese proverb sums it up best: "Keep a green tree in your heart and perhaps the singing bird will come." Translation: keep yourself open and all sorts of opportunities will come to you, for you could be the lucky winner of a couple of tickets to the Cubs home opener. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Campuses Kate Crisham Marcy Dinius Patti Carson Zoe Marin 
Sports Production Tim Sherman Cheryl Moser Viewpoint Kathie Young 
Suzy Fry Graphics Lab Tech Brendan Regan Scott Mendenhall 
The Observer (USPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Califormia earthquakes shake Oscar ceremony rehearsal 
When an earthquake shook an Academy Awards rehearsal on Sunday, many thought it was a Hollywood special effect. 
Elijah Wood was working on his introduction of the best visual effect nominees when the 5.3 aftershock rumbled through the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion. 
The winning envelope is delivered to Wood in the mouth of a giant dinosaur as an homage to "Jurassic Park," one of this year's nominees in the visual effects category. 
LOS ANGELES 
"The Plano" ":fh• Rem~lns 
o lf'l• Day ''The Fugitive'' 
;;\"r-m·~~!·,;:r/'1"• 
tion of Tinseltown's best special effects. For an instant, it seemed like it was part of the ceremony. But it soon became obvious, this was no scripted effect. Technicians scram­bled across the stage and people yelled "Earthquake." "Everybody, stay in your seats!" Oscar director Jeff Margolis said over a public address system. Most of the actors. including Jeff Bridges, Geena Davis and her hus­band, "Cliffhanger" director Renny Harlin, were backstage. There was no visible damage to 
Soon after Wood finished the part _l_~~=-;~:;!~:--)l~~~~ll_ the building. The rehearsal, which of the speech where he would announce the winner's had only just started, quickly resumed. The show, after name, a dull roar filled the auditorium, the huge chande-all, must go on. liers tinkled and the plush velvet seats shook in the tradi-The Oscar show is to begin at 9 p.m. EST Monday. 
Pryor fights multiple sclerosis 
Journalists shot in Somalia 
ST. JOSEPH, Mo. 
Fighting multiple sclerosis hasn't dulled comedian Richard Pryor's sharp sense of humor. In St. Joseph for a gathering to teach multiple sclerosis patients how to live better, Pryor joked about a doctor's idea Saturday that he start changing TV channels by hand as a step toward exercise. "Damn, I wish he wouldn't have said that," Pryor said. ''I'm going to have my significant other 

hide the clicker. But I love to click those channels. And before I murder her, I'll say, 'Hey look, I don't want to go to the penitentiary. So where's my clicker?'"Pryor, who was diagnosed with the disease in 1986, said he is merely keeping watch against his illness."There's not a damn thing I can do about it," Pryor said. 
Nickelodian makes change 
NEW YORK 
Nickelodeon, the cable television giant that courts school-age kids, wants to win over their little brothers and sisters, The New York Times reported. Nickelodeon will announce plans this week for a $30-million, three­year commitment to provide programming for preschool viewers, the newspaper said Monday. Nickelodeon exec­utives believe that PBS, which airs such popular shows as "Sesame Street" and "Barney and Friends," is vulnera­ble to a challenge. Nickelodeon is developing two shows aimed at preschoolers. They are "Gullah Gullah Island," a music show set in the South Carolina Sea Islands, and "Allegra's Window," a puppet show based on the daily experiences of a 3-year-old girl. Both shows will be launched this falL 
Seven die in Chicago fire 
CHICAGO 
People tossed their children from the windows of an apartment building, then jumped themselves to escape a smoky fire that killed seven people Sunday. A tenant was arrested for allegedly setting the blaze. At least 10 peo­ple sustained injuries ranging from smoke inhalation to second-degree burns. Julius Kuntu, 26, confessed to starting the fire, said police Cmdr. Ernest Hernandez. Kuntu, who lived in the building, was charged with seven counts of first-degree murder, one count of aggravated arson and one count of arson, Hernandez said. No motive for the fire was given. Among those killed was a 4-year-old boy and his 5-year-old sister. 


MOGADISHU, Somalia 
Two journalists for an Italian television network were shot to death Sunday when bandits apparently tried to hijack their vehicle on the increasingly mean streets of Mogadishu. Reporter Haria Alpi, 32, and cameraman Miran Krovatin, 45, of RAI-3 were gunned down in their pickup truck near the former Italian embassy in the heart of Somalia's seaside capital. They were traveling with a Somali driver and three armed guards, none of whom were hurt. Maj. Chris Budge, a U.N. military spokesman, said the guards had tried to resist the holdup. Another reporter nearby but out of sight of the shooting said he heard two long bursts of automatic gunfire, but left the area without realizing that two colleagues had been hit. Gunfire is heard so frequently in Mogadishu that it becomes an almost unnoticed part of the city's back­ground noise. 
Gigantic satellite links world 
NEW YORK 
The chairmen of Microsoft Corp. and McCaw Cellular Communications want to build a gigantic $9 billion satel­lite communications network that would link the world, according to published reports. William Gates of the soft­ware producer Microsoft. and Craig McCaw, who runs the cellular telephone company that bears his name, will create a new company called Teledesic Corp. of Kirkland, Wash., according to reports in Monday's editions of the Times and Washington Post. They were to outline the system, which would be more ambitious than any other network previously considered, in a filing Monday with the Federal Communications Commission. Plans are for Teledesic to build a network of 840 small satellites. 
Gay mayor fights prejudice 
DES MOINES, iowa 
The graffiti on his house -"Get out," "No Faggots," "Melbourne hates gays" -served as a wake-up call for Bill Crews. Crews, mayor of Melbourne, population 730, hadn't talked publicly about his homosexuality until he attended last April's gay rights march in Washington. Then the vandals descended. But Crews, 41, didn't recede from view. Today, he heads the board of the Gay and Lesbian Resource Center in Des Moines. a group he hopes will lead to a statewide gay rights organization. Still mayor, Crews is considering another campaign for the state Legislature. "Our oppression comes from people that oppress us in the name of Jesus, and that to me is so alien to what Jesus is all about that I just won't let them do that ... , " Crews said. 

~-------------------------­
Monday, March 21, 1994 
SMC celebrates I 50th year 
By SUNNY BYERS 
News Writer 
In celebration of the sesqui­centennial year, an aerial photo will be shot on Saint Mary's grounds -with the col­laboration of students, faculty and administration, standing in the formation of the number 150. 
"It· didn't take too long to get this idea off the ground, and it sounds like a lot of fun, " said 
/ 
Tricia Wallace, president of the Resident Hall Association 
(RHA). 
The picture is sponsored by the RHA and the idea was brought up in a committee by two freshmen students, Julie Hackett and Jayshree Janey. 
The photo shoot will be taken on Tuesday at 4:10, and anyone who is planning to participate should be at the LeMans court­yard at 3:45 p.m. 
There are flyers posted with information around Saint Mary's campus. 
The picture, in small poster size, will be available in mid­April for purchase. 
"It should be a good time, and we expect a lot of people to show up," said Wallace. 
Classes will not be canceled for the event because of the short time in which the picture will be taken. 
What Is Wellness? 
This week is National Collegiate Health and Wellness Week, brought to you by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. 
For most people, it is more difficult to define wellness than illness. All of us at one time or another have been ill. We know what happens and how we feel. Wellness is something else. Many people I have talked with think that if you are not ill, then you are well. For many, the most frequent definition of being well is not being sick. So, where does wellness fit into the picture? 
To begin with, wellness is the realization and acceptance of wellness self­responsibility. Next. wellness is the reduction and then elimination of all your negative health habits. This means stop smoking, consume moderate amounts of alcohol or none at all. arrive at and maintain ideal body weight. exercise regularly, consume a well-balanced diet, and learn to cope with everyday stress. 
Another dimension of well ness lies in introspection, or getting to know one's self. This emotional or spiritual part of wellness develops when wellness responsibility is accepted and negative lifestyles are eliminated. As attention is diverted from blatant pleasure-producing activities such as smoking, eating, imbibing, and the sedentary life, it is easier to concentrate on one's internal life. 
At this point. I would like to share with you the very simple definition of wellness that I have developed. This definition is shorter and less complicated than most. If you accept it, assimilate it, make it a part of you, then you can grow to the acceptance of other. more lengthy and complex definitions. 
•  Wellness is taking aggressive. positive action rather than a passive role in  
dictating and directing your health destiny.  . ..  
Wellness is total comprehension and acceptance of your own respons1b1hty  
for staying well.  .  
Wellness is the systematic recognition and elimination of all your negat1ve  
lifestyles.  - 
Wellness is a way of life which results in maximum longevity and enhanced  
quality of life.  
•  Wellness is feeling better and living longer.  

As you develop and mature in your wellness growth cycle, you may want to add to this definition. That's great. The more you become involved, the more successful you will be. 
THE WELLNESS CONTINUUM 
The Wellness Continuum is not static but dynamic and ever-moving. 
MAXIMUM LONGEV11Y systematic reduction of adoption of & ENHANCED OUALI1Y negative lifestyles 
positive I ifestyle 
OF LIFE
2 4
I I 
3 ~ 
ZERO elimination of all optimal organ and WELLNESS 
negative I ifestyles body system function and emotional well-being 
On the left side of the continuum is zero wellness, which is basically an asymptomatic but far from high-level wellness situation. 
To the right of zero is level 1, which is the recognition a~d sy~t.ematic reduction of your negative lifestyles. It is important to have a level_ for th1~ act1v1ty because most people have multiple-negative lifestyles. The gre~te~t m1stake IS for yo~ to ~ecome so enthusiastic about wellness that you attempt to elimmate all your negative lifestyles at one time. They must be eliminated· one at a a time. 
Level 2 is reached when you have successfully eliminated all your harmful health practices. You can make some allowances for situations in which it is impossible to completely eliminate the harmful activity. For example, a person. who travels .extensively may have some difficulty in constantly remaining on the 1deal balanced diet. 
Level 3 is reached when you reorganize your life to implement a positive lifestyle. By the very nature of eliminating lifes_tyles suc_h as smokin~! consuming excessive alcohol, indifference to regular exercise. obes1ty, poor nutntlon, and t~e inability to cope with stress. you start to adopt a positive lifestyle. Included in level 3 IS introspection --getting to know one's self from the inside out. S? that your. ~ew wellness attitude can become a reality. Level 3 involves the emotional or sp1ntual aspects of wellness. 
Level 4 becomes a reality only after considerable time and effort. _It takes practice and patience. It means treating your life as if it is truly your most pnze_d and valued possession. It is achieved only after elimination or concentrated reduction of all your negative lifetyles. as well as realization of your new self-awareness. !'-fter achieving level 4. a person is assured of maximum life-span and enhanced quahty of life. Stated another way, it is the assurance of feeling better and living longer. 
Taken from: Whitmer's Guide to Total Well ness by R. William Whitmer. 
Worthy discusses U.S. justice syste01 
By W. HUDSON GILES 
News Writer 
Despite its flaws, the Ameri­
can justice system can work 
fairly, according to Detroit 
prosecutor Kym Worthy, who 
helped bring 
" several white 
police officers 
to trial in a 
beating of an 
African 
American mo­
torist. 
"The crimi­nal justice Kym Worthy 
system is 
something I believe in," she 
said. "I've worked there for ten 
years and I really believe it 
works." 
Worthy spoke as part of the 
Black Law Students Associa­
tion's (BLSA) 21st Annual 
Alumni Reunion this past week­
end. 
A Detroit motorist, Malice 
Green was driving his car to 
the store on Nov. 5, 1992, 
accompanied by a friend when 
he was stopped by undercover 
policemen. The officers, 
referred to as "Starsky and 
Hutch" by local residents, had 
reason to believe the car was 
stolen due to a prior report that 
described a car very similar to 
Green's. 
After verbal exchanges be­tween the officers and Green, they instructed him to open his hand, believing him to be in possession of crack. Green then refused, at which point the interrogating officer began to beat him over the head with his police-issued flashlight. 
After some time, they pulled Green from the car, now un­conscious, and began kicking him in the head and body. Af­terwards, EMS crews were summoned and transported Green to a local hospital where he was declared dead due to 14 blows to the head. 
Originally, seven Detroit offi­cers were charged with the murder of Malice Green, but only three went to trial. Worthy was one of five prose­cutors assigned to the case, of 
which she was one of the two 
black attorneys, and the only 
woman. 
"I have not had problems in 
my career with racism where 
people discriminate against me 
because of my race, meaning 
blatant problems," Worthy 
said. "I have had many, many 
problems with sexism, how­
ever. Women litigates are still 
an anomaly." 
Worthy stated that because 
she was an agent of the crimi­
nal justice system, that it was 
difficult to prosecute co-work­
ers, meaning the police officers. 
She said that the issue was not 
so much race, although that 
was a large factor, but rather 
"accountability for the death of 
another citizen." 
Despite the immense public 
outcry, Worthy did not waver in 
her determination to achieve 
justice. 
"When you look at this case, 
there is a difference between a 
police officer making a split­
second decision in dealing with 
somebody who has a gun or 
who might have a gun, and 
beating somebody for a period 
of time causing their death," 
she said. 
The trial began on June 2, 
1993 only 4 months after the 
Rodney King acquittals were 
handed down. Worthy noted 
that extreme care was required 
in dealing with the issues of 
this case. 
"We had a very volatile com­munity and a very volatile na­tion, and we wanted to make sure we handled this case with excessive caution," she said. 
Worthy said the media only created difficulty in that they were untrustworthy and that by talking to the press during the trial was unethical. 
Two of the three officers were found guilty of second degree murder and the third was acquitted. 
Worthy said that her success was due to the witnesses and the fact that common sense and life experience helped to under­stand the facts. 

Informal training session for students to give presentations to area high schools regarding Alzheimer's Disease. 
Minimal Time Committment 
Center for Social Concerns 
7:00 pm, March 21 
Questions., call Kaija at 287-9479 or Scott at 634-1714 
The Observer 
is now accepting applicationsfor thefollowingposition: 
SMC BOG Beat Writer 
Call Beth Regan @284-4453 or 631-4540 
-----------------~ ---~-------~-·---------~-----~ 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS March, Monday 21, 1994 

Grassroots effort initiated 
By LIZ FORAN Assistant News Editor 
A nationwide grassroots effort has been established to obtain public opinion on a vari­ety of governmental policy issues through a series of open forums on a variety of subjects. 
The National Policy Forum: A Republican Center For the Ex­change of Ideas is a new pro­gram which seeks to find out how ordinary Americans feel about policy issues and to bring these opinions to government leaders. 
"Instead of focusing on what a few national 'experts' have to say, we want to listen to the ideas of average Americans who deal directly with our na­tion's key challenges in their everyday lives," said National Policy Forum Chairman Haley Barbour in a recent press re­lease. 
L ayette 
continued from page 1 
Matthew Hagenow, 22, of 424 
N. Frances Street, was charged with resisting law enforcement, junior Michael LaSalle, 20, of Morrissey Manor, was charged with public intoxication, resist­ing law enforcement, and mi­nor consuming alcohol and sophomore Michael Williams, 20, of Dillon Hall, was charged with resisting law enforcement and minor consuming alcohol. 
Each student was released on 
$100 bond and will appear in 
Court March 31. Resisting law 
enforcement, disorderly con­
duct and public intoxication are 
also Class A misdemeanors car­
rying a maximum punishment 
of a $10,000 fine and a one 
year prison sentence, said 
Feirrell. 
Six ND students were cited as minors in possession of alcohol. They are: junior Margaret Garzelloni, 20, of Lyons Hall, sophomore Kit Hoffman, 20, of Zahm Hall, junior Sarah .Klinges, 20, of Walsh Hall, freshman Mark Loring, 19, of Fisher Hall, junior John McGuire, 20, of St. Edward's Hall, and sophomore Charles 
Schaffier, 20, of Alumni Hall. 
Five Saint Mary's students 
were also cited for the offense. 
They are: Christine Camara, 
19, of McCandless Hall, Tricia 
Foster, 19, also of McCandless 
Hall, Maxwell Murphy, 20, of 
54631 Irish Way, Gina Olivieri, 
19, of LeMans Hall, and Diedre 
Stein, 20, of Holy Cross Hall. 
Feirrell said that police were 
tipped off about the party 
weeks ago and that the five 
agencies had been constructing 
a plan to approach it. The forty 
officers involved in the Stop 
Underage Drinking and Sales 
(S.U.D.S.) raid were from the 
Indiana State police, Excise 
police, Mishawaka Police, Saint 
Joseph County Police and South 
Bend Police. 
The party was to begin at 
• ..,......(Pill~ ·12:451:11 5:117:4511:11 
......T•(PCllt. 1:45 4:151:451:15 .....,(Pill): t15 t4i 7:111.. ~.lll:l (Pill): 2:114:JI ~I :11 D1 C.. (PCII): 1•t15 5:15 7:11 t• .....DIll (Pill): -I~ 2:45 5:117:151:45 
This project consists of 60 to 70 open forums across the United States on topics ranging from health care and education to reforming the legal system and international affairs. 
Three basic principles repre­sent the intentions of the Na­tional Policy Forum, according to an informational pamphlet: 
-that fundamentally, ideas make the difference in politics; 
-that traditionally, ideas that make a difference have been associated with political parties; 
-that currently, workable ideas are more likely to be found at the grassroots than in Washington. 
The National Policy Forum began a series of meetings in the fall of 1993 to hear from concerned Americans and to listen to their ideas and opin­ions on what government is, is not, or should be doing. 

"Police had been told that it was a private party, but when officers entered apartments they were served alcohol with­out question," said Feirrell. 
Police began the raid around 2 p.m. because "things started to get out of hand as people were running in the street and causing problems," he said. 
Feirrell said that dogs were used in the raid in order to con­trol the crowd of over 1,500 students. 
The South Bend Tribune 
Contributed to this article. 

After this series of meetings, the Policy Councils will report their findings to the Forum's Coordinating Council, which is composed of elected officials, former office-holders, civic, community and business lead­ers, and other prominent Americans. 
The Coordinating Council will draw conclusions from the information and decide whether or not to recommend government action. 
In July of 1994, the Forum plans to have a report prepared detailing the information dis­covered by the individual Policy Councils and describing ideas and plans that have worked. 
The National Policy Forum meetings are free and open to the public, and all are invited and encouraged to attend and to share any ideas and ques­tions. 
Lugar 
continued from page 1 
world market. "If we're not out looking at the world market, the world market is going to come and look at our market," he said. 
The best way to avoid foreign entanglement is to get involved more in the world economy, said Michael Baroody, National Policy-Forum President and Notre Dame graduate. "Com­mercial and economic ties are vital to change," he said. "They promote trust and personal re­lationships." 
Concern about media influ­ence on public opinion and, consequently. government ac-
FOURTH DAY RETREAT: 
"DYING AND RISING WITH CHRIST" 
WHEN? : FRIDAY, MARCH 25 -SUNDAY, MARCH 27 
WHERE?: LlNDENWOOD RETREAT CENTER (30 ~SFROM N.D.) 
SIGN UP AT CAMPUS MINISTRY OFFICE, 103 HESBURGH LIBRARY LAST DAY FOR SIGNING-UP IS THURSDAY, MARCH 26 (4pm) FOR MORE INFO. CALL BOB DOWD, C.S.C. @631-7800 or 
631-5056 

Serbian government resigns, future unsure 
Associated Press 
BELGRADE, 
Yugoslavia 
The government of the self­proclaimed Serb state in Croatia resigned Sunday, reflecting deep political divi­sions among Croatia's Serb minority. 
It was unclear what effect, if any, the resignation might have on talks between Croatian Serb leaders and Croat government officials scheduled to open in Zagreb, Croatia, under Russian auspices on Tuesday. 
Djordje Bjegovic tendered his resignation as premier of Kra­jina, saying his cabinet's work was "blocked from all sides," the Belgrade-based Tanjug news a enc re orted. tion was expressed, although any significant impact of this relationship on government was denied by panel members. 
"(Those in government) have to have guiding principles," said Lugar. "You are not oblivi­ous but you believe you are right. Otherwise you lack deci­sive leadership policies." 
Pickett agreed, saying the media influence is overrated. "There was public pressure for intervention in Somalia, but not for Bosnia," he said. People are capable of making judgments, but leaders must continue if they believe they are right and are acting in their best inter­ests, said. 
The results of this and simi­lar meetings will be published by the National Policy Forum in July of this year. 
After Croatia declared inde­pendence in 1991, the Serb-led Yugoslav army occupied a third of the country and set up the so-called Serb Republic of Kra­jina. 
At the time, ethnic Serbs accounted for 12 percent of Croatia's 4.5 million inhabi­tants. 
Slobodan Milosevic, the pow­erful leader of Serbia, bankrolled the Croatian Serb separatists. 
But a recent rapprochement between Serbia and Croatia has given rise to fears that Milosevic might return Krajina to Croatia in exchange for terri­torial concessions in neighbor­ing Bosnia, where Bosnian Serbs hold about 70 percent of the land. 
Elections were held in Kra­jina in December and January, but the formation of the new government was delayed due to a split between Milosevic's sup­porters and opponents. 
In the meantime, Bjegovic's cabinet, elected by the previous parliament, stayed on in a caretaker role. 
The resignation came after Milosevic supporter Milan Mar­tic, who won the presidential elec_tion, agreed last week to the talks with Croatia that aim to formally end the 1991 war. A cease-fire has largely held since early 1992. 

Tradition Series examines Christian sexuality 
By EDWARD IMBUS
celebrated 
News Writer 
Sexuality encompasses far 
more than physical love, creat­
ing a complicated, complex ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH dilemma for Christians today, News Writer such as the vast majority of 
Notre Dame students, accord­
This Monday marks the ing to University President beginning of the celebration of Father Edward Malloy and Women's History Month at Maura Ryan, professor of the­Saint Mary's College. In recog­ology, nition of the achievements of The presentation, entitled women, the college is hosting a "Monk and Maura Speak: What series of lectures, discussions, Do They Know?" was the first and events reflecting the in the annual Campus Ministry accomp.lishments they have "Keeping the Faith" series of made. presentations. Sexuality and 
The first of the events begins the Notre Dame student is the Monday at 12:15 p.m. in the focus of this year's series. Stapleton Lounge at LeMans Malloy began by questioning Hall. Drew University theolo­how a person could become an gian Ada Maria Isasi Diaz will expert on sexuality. Though speak on the subject of celebrities like Dr. Ruth and "Women, Diversity and the Hugh Heffner may offer their Church." views on sexuality, he won­
The lecture will focus on the dered whether or not sexuality role of women in the religious was a concept varying between community and the role that individuals through their "own 
atSMC 
ifkv4~
diversity plays in their involve­personal window." The Obaerver/T.J. Harris ment. Sexuality is seen mainly in its University President Father Edward Malloy discusses sexuality and the Notre Dame student in "Monk and 
Saint Mary's Associate Dean anatomical and physiological Maura: What Do They Know?" Maura Ryan, professor of Theology, joined Father Malloy in the presenta­of Faculty Patrick White is aspects, such as physical inti­tion. scheduled to speak on the role macy or a person's attractions 
is another, raising sub-1ssues of chenshed at the same time. as the ddlerences between the of minority women in the to others, he said. Most conver­"consent and the use of sexual­However, people will deny physical and emotional sides of media. Titled "But I am sations about sexuality usually ity as a weapon to attack the their experience, deny its sexuality and frustrations in here,Women of Color in confme themselves to that. 
dignity of another." importance, or hold something finding the ideal relationship.
Contemporary Film," the lec­"Maybe that isn't sufficient," Christians believe that "Our back in relationships in order to Also discussed was how stu­ture will take place on he said. "Sexuality deals more creation as people is funda­protect themselves. She gave dents could work with Catholic Tuesday, March 22. with personhood, not physical mentally good," Ryan said. the examples of how students teaching and practice in reality, There will be a reception for relations." 
Though society tends to feel differently about people af­such as student's inability to author Denise Chavez on Many people have problems devalue the body, people should ter "hooking up" with them, or buy condoms on campus to pro­
Tuesday at 4 p.m. in the speaking with their families 
remember a delighted God cre­the difficulty of being "only tect themselves against venere­O'Laughlin Auditorium Lobby. about sexuality, Malloy said. 
ated us as sexual beings, she friends" after a relationship in­al disease. 
Chavez is the first Multicultural Rather, they gain their knowl­said. , cluding sex. The Keeping the Faith series Scholar/ Artist-in-Residence for edge through what they read or Also, she noted that Jesus "All is sacrament. Nothing is will continue throughout this the Saint Mary's community. hear, through "trial and error became flesh, both physical and unimportant for the Kingdom," week. On March 23 a panel of "Women in· the State of Grace" or 'tutoring."' 
spiritual, reflecting God's divine including sexuality. Our lovll of rectors and students will ex­is billed as "An Afternoon of The subject of sexuality raises reality. God is revealed through our plore the experiences of Notre Poetry, Theatre and Fiction" several other issues, he said. 
Humans are always in need love of our neighbor, she said. Dame students, and on March and will take place on Fertility is one such issue, in of feeling, she said. Love Student discussion afterwards 27 students can discuss their Thursday, March 24 at 4 p.m. turn making people think about makes us feel both exposed and focused on several topics, such experiences with their peers. 
in the Haggar Parlor. STD's and contraception. Rape 

page 6 
"Come on down!" 
Pangborn Hall residents present "The Price is Right'' at Washington Hall. 
The Observer • NEWS 

ByJIM ANDERSON 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
A strong aftershock to the deadly January earthquake rocked Southern California on Sunday, opening up new cracks in a recently repaired freeway and tossing boulders onto a road through Malibu Canyon. 
No injuries were reported from the magnitude 5.3 quake. One car was apparently struck by a boulder falling onto Malibu Canyon Road in Malibu. 
The quake also triggered rockslides in the Angeles National Forest. 
The quake was centered one mile west-northwest of Panorama City in the San Fer­nando Valley, about six miles east of the epicenter of the magnitude-6. 7 Northridge earthquake. It struck around 
1:20 p.m. and lasted about 30 seconds. 
Max Benavidez, a seismolo­gist at the California Institute of Technology, said it was another in the thousands of aftershocks to the Jan. 17 earthquake, which caused 61 deaths and about $20 billion in damage. 
New cracks were reported on at least two overpasses on state Highway 118, the Simi Valley Freeway, which was heavily damaged in the January quake, California Highway Patrol Offi­cer Frank Lewis said. 
An 8-inch gap was reported on a transition ramp between Interstate 405 and Highway 118, he said. 
The aftershock was centered near the freeway. It was felt widely in Los Angeles County as 
Richter scale 
The Richter scale is a gauge of the energy released by an earthquake, as measured by the ground motion recorded on a seismograph. 
MAGNITUDE &QUAKE DESCRIPTION 
fOI\l Considered a "great" ~ earthquake, capable of 
tremendous damage in 
populated areas 
f.7nl Considered a majorl.!.:!:!.J earthquake, capable 
of widespread, heavy 
damage in populated areas 
~ Can cause severe ~ damage in populated areas 
11::1\l Can cau~e considerable ~ damage tn populated areas 
fAI\1 Can cause moderate . ~ damage in populated areas 
~ Can cause slight damage ~ in populated areas 
r.il\1 Smallest normally felt ~ byhumans 
AP 
well as Orange, Riverside, Ventura and Santa Barbara counties. 
The quake startled people attending a rehearsal for Mon­day's Academy Awards at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion downtown. 
Moments after actor Elijah Wood practiced his introduction for the visual effects Oscar, the auditorium's chandeliers swayed, the seats rocked and huge pieces of scenery rattled over the stage. 
"Everybody, stay in your 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Applicants should submit a one page personal statement and resume to Beth Regan by Wednesday March 23, 5:00pm. 
For additional information contact Beth at 631-4540. 
Monday, March 21, 1994 
U.S. to seek sanctions against North Korea 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The United States is prepar­ing to seek U.N. trade sanctions against North Korea because of that country's recalcitrance on nuclear weapons inspections, Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Sunday. 
But President Clinton said there was still "some hope" that North Korea would allow inspections of its nuclear sites and avoid international sanc­tions. 
"There appear to be people within North Korea that want to proceed to normalize the relations of their country with the international community and people who don't. We'll just have to see what they do now -where we go from here," Clinton said upon arriv­ing in Miami for a health care forum. 
"To some extent, the ball is still clearly in their court. But we are proceeding to consider all our options," the president said. 
Christopher predicted China would not block sanctions against North Korea despite its recent quarrel with the United States over human rights be­cause it is in China's national interest that North Korea not become a nuclear power. 
Christopher, speaking on CBS' "Face the Nation" also said the government would be talking to South Korea about basing Patriot missiles there, and reviving large joint military exercises that were to have been postponed as a gesture of 
Happy 21st Sharon! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Steve, Sue, Kevin & Christopher 
goodwill to North Korea. 
He said there were no im­mediate plans to increase the 37,000 American troops in South Korea, but "we'll be looking at that situation day in and day out." 
"We hear some fairly strong rhetoric coming out of North Korea, but we have to do what's in our interest. We have to protect our troops," Christopher said on CNN's "Late Edition." "We won't be unnecessarily provocative. We don't seek a confrontation. But we want to be ready for one." 
Clinton was asked if the situation was in danger of esca­lating into a military conflict. ''I'm not trying to ratchet up the tensions," the president told reporters. ''I'm just trying to work through this in a very deliberate but very firm and disciplined way." 
Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., told NBC's "Meet the Press" that "we may also want to beef up our own forces there" in response to what he said was "probably the most serious thing on the radar screen now." 
House Majority Leader Dick Gephardt of Missouri, appear­ing on the same show, said, "We might ultimately send more troops to beef up the South Korean side." 
The International Atomic Energy Agency was to meet Monday to announce findings on its recent nuclear inspection tour of North Korea, during which the Koreans barred its agents from looking at facilities suspected of housing a nuclear weapons program. 

seats!" Oscar director Jeff Mar­golis said over a public address system. 
The rehearsal quickly re­sumed. There was no visible damage to the pavilion. 
The U.S. Forest Service re­ported quake-triggered rock­slides on Angeles Forest High­way in the Angeles National Forest. 
A strip mall in suburban Van Nuys was ablaze at 2:10 p.m., but it was unclear if that was earthquake-related. 
Police were put on tactical alert, meaning the day shift was held over to assist the night watch. "All reports are good so far and there's no problem," said Officer Arthur Holmes, a department spokesman. 
Randy Workman, whose Simi Valley home 35 miles north of Los Angeles was badly dam­aged by the Januar.y quake, said it escaped damage this time. 
"It was pretty strong, but it was more the old fashioned rocking kind so it wasn't so bad," he said. 
"I just wish the damn things would stop." 

MW10r 
Film Festival 
Thurday, March 24 @7:30PM Stepan Center 
$2 Admission 
Proceeds to benefit ST. HEDWIGS OUTREACH 
Imagination leads to progress Gore visits village 
By PAT STONELAKE ed out that Francis Bacon The "Second Imagination" News Writer assigned learning to three cat­comes into play when scientists 
during tour of Bolivia 
egories: Memory, Reason, and are forced to explain events 
The Center for Continuing Education was the forum for a lecture on Friday by Father Er­nan McMullin, John Cardinal O'Hara Professor of Philosophy at Notre Dame, entitled "En­larging the Imagination". 
McMullin was recently se­lected as the 1993-94 Ro­manell-Phi Beta Kappa Profes­sor by the Phi Beta Kappa Soci­ety of America. A native of Donegal, Ireland and a promi­nent international figure in the philosophy of science, Mc­Mullin chaired Notre Dame's philosophy department from 1965-72. He now directs the history and philosophy of sci­ence program and the Reilly Center for Science, Technology, and Human Values. 
McMullin asserted that imag­ination has consistently en­larged its role in the world of science since the times of the Greek philosophers and the Scientific Revolution. He point-
HAPPYBnm-IDAY 
KAL 
THE FASTEST HAND IN THE 
DORM. 
Imagination. 
Bacon limited the imagination to the realm of "poesy", which he felt had no relevance in the scientific world. As time went on, the value of a sharp and constructive imagination be­came clear. 
According to McMullin, the Scientific Revolution "required a form of inventiveness that could best be described as imagination". In describing the contribution of imagination, McMullin divided it into three categories of development. 
The "First Imagination" is an effort to deal with distances in space, scale, and time. Ac­cording to McMullin, Newton's theories and the set rules which described the behavior of the physical world were "not an­swers but questions". This first type of imagination is a reac­tion to "a limit on the evidence­gathering abilities of the ob­server". 
which they cannot understand in terms of substances and events which they cannot fath­om. The solution of this second imagination is to devise new substances or events to explain the behavior being witnessed. 
As science progresses into the age of quantum mechanics and nuclear physics, dilemmas like the dual particle/wave na­ture of radiation need to be re­solved by still another division of the imagination. The key to this "Third Imagination" lies in ontology. 
McMullin will continue with the problem of imagination in the two remaining lectures in the series, the second of which will be held today in room 131 of the DeBartolo Quadrangle. 
By PETER McFARREN 
Associated Press 
HUATAJATA, Bolivia Vice President Al Gore on Sunday visited his Bolivian 
counterpart's hometown, an Aymara Indian village on Lake Titicaca, more than two miles above sea level. 

AI Gore 
Dancers wearing brightly colored feath­er headresses performed ancient Aymara Indian dances in a ceremony to welcome Gore and his wife, Tipper. 
The couple didn't appear to suffer an ill-effects from the 12,500-foot altitude. 
They attended a Baptist Church service and toured the local school where Bolivian Vice President Victor Hugo Cardenas, an Aymara Indian intellectual and educator, was taught by Baptists. 
Speaking to several thousand Aymara Indian farmers, Gore praised Cardenas for his ability to rise from his humble origins to the vice presidency. He spoke in English, and his com­ments were translated into Aymara and Spanish. 
Youth crime linked to economy 
By W. HUDSON GILES 
News Writer 
The rising crime rate among youths is an immense cost to the economy as well as to the African American community, said Yvonne Scruggs-Leftwich, director of the Urban Policy Institute at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, at a lecture Saturday night. 
Scruggs-Leftwich spoke as part of the twenty-first annual alumni reunion of the Black Law Students Association (BLSA) this weekend. 
"It is generally agreed and most recently documented in various journalistic pro flies that rampant crime is costing America $425 billion dollars a year," she said. 
She went on to say that it costs $9.75 billion to incarcer­ate America's convicts at $30,000 per person annually. 
"There is a strong linkage between juvenile violence and the changing patterns of job availability, school enrollment, parental accountability, and neighborhood stability," she said, citing statistics. 
122,000 juveniles were charged with violent crimes in 1993 including assault, rape and murder. 
Of those juveniles, 1,500 were under the age of nine and 8,000 were between ten and twelve years old. Twenty-five percent were between the ages of 13 and 14 years old. 
Of all these youths,49% were African American, according to Scruggs-Leftwich. 
"Angry young men armed with automatic weapons have turned traditional centers of black sociability [such as] street corners, storefronts, stoops, and even the steps of churches, into dangerous and forbidding places," she said. 
Scruggs-Leftwich said that not only the direct and opportu­nity costs were debilitating to the African American commu­nity, but the gang activity and loss of life were equally detri­mental to the prosperity of African Americans nationwide. 
"To many Americans, images of gang violence while tragic, remain just that-images," she said, declaring that action must be taken soon. 
Scruggs-Leftwich was former­ly the Deputy Mayor of Philadelphia and produced the National Urban Policy as an aide to President Jimmy Carter. 
Many Americans believe that thinner is better. 
People with eating disorders believe it so deeply that their weight and dieting success become the measure of their self-esteem. 
Thinking that eating is the cause and result of many of their problems, they become trapped in a vicious cycle of repeated, ritualistic, and rigid behavior focused on food. 
[}={] ©W U@ [}={]@ ~ ~ ~ f[fD®mJ@ 
w~~[h @[(1) ~@~~[(1)~ ~ @ [(1) ©@ [f [(1) Presented by 
~o~~ [Q)©[fl)~®W 
Assistant Director University Counseling Center 
Tuesday, March 22, 1994, at 7 p.m. Foster Room (3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center) 
This week Is National Collegiate Health and Wellness Week, brought to you by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. 
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, March 21,1994 
S. Africa ready for change 
ByTOMCOHEN Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG,SouthAfrica 
A seat on the U.N. Security Council. Diplomatic and com­mercial relations with former enemies. Resuscitating a conti­nent. 
s u c h visions fill the heads of South African leaders as the country pre­pares to shed pariah status by holding its first multira­cial elections. 
Both the African National Congress and the ruling National Party, expected to fmish first and sec­ond in the voting April 26-28, want to exploit the goodwill accompanying the end of. apartheid. 
Their common goals are to revive the economy, forge links with neighbors and promote regional progress. 
If the new South Africa stum­bles, their leaders say, sub­Saharan Africa may lose its best, and perhaps last, chance to emerge from a post-colonial legacy of despotism, squalor and warfare. 
"It is as if the whole world wishes Africa to produce a sue-cess story," said Roelof "Pik" Botha, foreign minister in the white-minority government for nearly 17 years. 

"If we do not produce the success story here, I can only see darkness. The whole region will just become poorer and drift into chaos." 
After decades of isolation for what the United Nations called crimes against humanity, South Africa finally has the opportu­nity to realize its potential. 
A powerful military, ad­vanced technology and the strongest economy in the region give it unique advantages with­in Africa. 
Internationally, South Africa meets the criteria for consider­ation as a permanent member of an expanded Security ~ouncil, U.N. special represen­tative Lakhdar Brahimi said recently. 
Under white rule, South Africa could not fully exploit its resources. It became a Hydra­like nation, held back by the various heads snapping at each other and the isolation caused by sanctions against its racial policies. 
Even as the world's leading producer of gold and platinum, with the best infrastructure in Africa, it could not achieve eco­nomic growth in the past five years. 
The ANC and National Party want to forge a southern Africa trading bloc capable of compet­ing with those in Europe, the Far East and America. 
"Previously there was an il­lusion that South Africa was a European outpost in Africa," said Aziz Pahad, an ANC for­eign-policy official. "Our future, as well as the region's future, is very, very dependent on inter­dependency." 
Obstacles abound. Even with a smooth transition to black rule after the election, South Africa faces the staggering cost of providing blacks with hous­ing, education and other neces­sities that were neglected for generations. 
"There's so many domestic requirements to take care of that South Africa's impact on the rest of the continent is not going to be dramatic overnight," said Princeton Ly­man, the U.S. ambassador. 
In four decades of apartheid, foreign policy concentrated on overcoming the isolation im­posed from outside and com­bating the spread of Soviet-in­spired socialism in southern Africa. 
South Africa supported anti­Marxist rebels in Mozambique and Angola, impeded trade so neighbors would have to rely on its goods and attacked anti­apartheid guerrillas in neigh­boring countries. 
French elections draw near 
By CHRISTOPHER BURNS Associated Press 
PARIS 
High unemployment didn't keep France's conservatives from gaining ground Sunday in local elections, the first major ballot test for Premier Edouard Balladur. 
The results gave a boost to Balladur, who rode an anti-So­cialist juggernaut into office a year ago, but whose approval rating dropped below 50 per­cent in recent weeks as he re­treated from austerity policies amid social unrest. 
Official returns late Sunday gave the conservative coalition about 46 percent of the vote, 2 points more than in legislative elections last year and in 1988 local elections. The Socialists and their allies got about 30 percent. 
"For those who saw this as a test of the government, the evi­dence is there: it's a victory," Interior Minister Charles Pasqua told a news conference. 
Balladur, as usual, was more low-key. "The test was not un­favorable," he told Franceinfo radio. 
Socialist leader Michel Ro­card claimed a victory of sorts, saying the left's performance improved by about 8 points from the March 1993 legislative elections. 
"The left has again found its dynamism," he told a news conference. "The voter have expressed their discontent with the right." 
The left's total was about four points below its total in local elections in 1988, Pasqua said. 
The Socialists were looking for a shot in the arm a year ahead of elections to succeed Socialist President Francois Mitterrand. 
The conservative govern­ment has pointed to the begin­nings of a recovery in the econ­omy, with production up and inflation low. But unemploy­ment tops 12 percent and isn't expected to fall before the end of the year. 
The Socialists gained mainly at the cost of France' ecology parties, which barely won 2 percent of the vote, down from almost 12 percent a year ago. 
The Communist Party won about 10 percent of the vote, slightly more than in 1993, and the far right National Front got about 9 percent of the vote, 3 points less than last year. 
Sunday's vote would not have changed the conserva­tives' crushing majority in the National Assembly, but it could have caused trouble for Bal­ladur by encouraging dissent within his coalition. 
A second round of voting to determine runoff races was scheduled the following Sun-
Happy 21st Birthday! 
Michael Workman! 
Love, 
Mom, Dad, & Tammy 
day. 
Nine of Balladur's Cabinet ministers are among the 10,800 candidates running for 2,000 municipal council seats across the country and in overseas ter­ritories. 
Eight were elected, and Communications Minister Alain Carignon was in a runoff. 
French politicians often hold local and parliamentary seats at the same time, and the loss of one seat does not affect the other. 
Normally six-year terms, the council seats will last until 2001, to coincide with munici­pal elections slated for that year. 

Submission for the Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism are invited from all Notre Dame Graduate and Undergradu­ate Students. Essays must treat a topic in Art History or Cii.ticism. Only topics dealing with the Visual Arts are eli­gible. The prize carrirs a cash award of $300. Rules may be obtained in room 132 O'Shaughnessy. Entries are Due by 4:00pm on Thesday, April 5 in Room 132 O'Shaughnessy  

WIDESPREAD PANIC 

APPLICATIONS FOR 
IFU~ JHINWJJ ({))UIEN1fA1fll({))N 
C(Q)MMll~~ll(Q)NIEJR. 
ARE DUE TODAY IN THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE BY 
5:00 P.M.! 
= ':;j;~;j~f~~~iW~~~ ..: 
gwunan'Slast an angry ql!eSti,on Muslim holiday precedence over boll,dav prayers in the 
to both faiths. of the settlers said ;re too absorbed in 
to notice the heavily Goldstein. 
any commander more senior offi­g army orders 
shooting a.t Jewish 
CAMPUSES 
Monday, March 21, 1994 page 9 
Campus bands diverse on college music scenes 
By JUSTIN COLE liking anything, especially mu-News Writer sic." He also feels that there will 
When you think of music never be a stable and consis­scenes, places like Chapel Hill, tent music scene at Notre Dame Olympia, Athens, and like there is in a place like Washington D.C. come more Chapel Hill. The school just is readily to mind than Notre not big enough to have a large Dame. Does that mean that number of bands. The scene Notre Dame students in search here is instead based on a of quality music should pack small number of bands ever their bags and head for the few years that pique people's Tarheel state, the nation's capi-interests. It is up to the bands 
to create the interest, and re­
NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
cently over the past few years tal or the great Pacific the bands have been particu­Northwest? larly strong and have created a 
It might surprise more than a lot of excitement, but if the few people that the answer to quality of the bands falls off in this question is NO. Such ac­the future then so will the in­tion would be drastic as well as terest. It is almost the opposite unnecessary because while not of a place like Boston where highly acclaimed, the music the higher level of interest cre­scene at Notre Dame is both re­ates the need for bands which spectable and largely unappre­is filled from a considerably ciated. With only a slight larger talent pool. amount of effort one can un­So how does the odd nature cover a rich and talented music of the Notre Dame music scene scene under the golden dome. effect bands who have the tal­
In talking to Joe Cannon, gui­ent and desire to make there tarist and lead singer of emiLy, music more than a pastime? you fmd one of the most wide­For Steve Sostak; lead singer spread views among campus of Victoria's Real Secret, a By ROB ADAMS caf for some bands, who play University.
musicians expressed; that there band who is seriously pursuing News Writer everything you could imagine. Regardless of what type of
is definitely a strong group of getting signed to a record label, They play at other campuses music the band plays, it is al­bands at Notre Dame that are the answer to this question has 
The diversity of college cam­
because there are a lot of cam­ways fascinating to hear about
faced with a constant struggle profound importance. against lack of interest from a puses extends beyond the puses nearby. They get really the originality and the styles
weather, size, location, or any 
good when they come to­that makes each band different large percentage of students. 
of the other most commonly
"Being the music director at ' It is often said that gether," said Mike Daly at the from the others. 
thought of differences. Campus
WVFI, I hear a lot of major and Domers just like cover Berklee College of Music in "Suedeshane is pretty big
bands are often overlooked as a 
Boston. around here," said Brianindependent label music and bands, but if a band genuine symbol of singularity 'We have one decent place to Carothers at the University of
the stuff that bands here, like July, Comeuppance, emiLy and plays original music and on that particular campus. The play, like with a stage and good Illinois. "They have a mellow 
collective group of bands on sound system because we're in alternative sound and it justSpoonfed, are doing is as good is really excited about 
any campus represents the 
such a small town, but there has a great appeal to it." 
if not better than a large por­what they are doing then mood, the angst, the spirit, and are quite a few bands for the Although these bands come
tion of it. It is just that many students have a fear of things eventually people will like the problems of their own cam­area. A lot of bands become together and write music to­
pus. disillusioned because there are gether often throughout their
that are different, like much of them and listen to them.' the current original music on "The main thrust is to be loud, not many places to play and it entire four years in college, the 
challenge the town, and be as doesn't pay well, but there is a chances of moving on to staying campus, and therefore do not Brian Muller shocking and offensive as you pretty decent turnout at every together and "forming a careersupport those bands that play possibly can," said Bill Heisel of show," said Dave Miller of in music" are quite slim. 
original music." 
the University of Montana Virginia Tech. "I don't know if any are seri­He does think, however, that 
scene, "we have a band here 
"There are a lot of bands and ous about a career in music,"
the interest and acceptance "The lack of a really strong level towards original campus music scene is a defmite detri­called Judy Rosenparker, more places are becoming re­said Heisel. "Most of them take 
named after one of the band 
ceptive to campus bands so little tours on the road to Idahobands is on the rise. "With the ment to a band in our position. 
member's mothers, who stir up 
now there are a lot of places to or somewhere around, but Iinterest in original music on Getting noticed and respected interest with their publicity play," said Heisel. can't see anything happening
campus sparked a few years in the outside music world 
posters. One of their recent Not all types of music are rep­after college for them," saidago by bands like Brian Colin & without the support and repu­posters was based on abortion resented at every college cam­Heisel.
Vince and Chisel coupled with tation of a strong music scene right after an abortion clinic pus, but each university has its "We have the Furleys, whothe new fad acceptance of is tough," Sostak said. 
was bombed nearby. In con­own chunk of the various musi­are named after Mr.Furley
'alternative' music it seems that He thinks that one of the ma­cert they like to show up in top­cal genres. from Three's Company. Theymore people are willing to lis­jor problems with the small size pings like whipped cream and Our scene is alright, they have play at local bars and they'reten to the music that is going of the Notre Dame music scene 
peanut butter and they also 
a lot of pep. Being in Atlanta hooked up with some localon here." is the lack of places for bands 
mock a lot of other bands." 
we hear a lot of variety. We -bands which enable them to get 
Brian Muller, formerly of to play. "With most of the 
Interest about campus bands hear jazz, mellow laid-back more shows, but I don't think,Brian, Colin & Vince and cur­already small number of bars seems to be very high at the stuff, blues, soul, and hip-hop," from what I've seen, that the
rently in Krype Street, has a in South Bend leaning towards very interesting take on the having the safer and more present, as many people spoke said Scott McCord who attends Furleys or any of the other 
of a host of bars, fraternity 
Morehouse State. bands will do anything after
Notre Dame music scene. He monetarily lucrative cover 
houses, clubs, and other local 
"We have some Latin music, college," said Jim Radosta ofalso echoes the sentiment that bands play gigs in there places venues being extremely recep­some jazz, alternative, some "The
there are quality bands at it is harder and harder for Pepperdine University.
tive because of the quality. pop stuff, and there isn't a lot whole idea of a college atmo­Notre Dame. He feels that the bands playing original music to "A lot of people play in bands of rap so that's about it," said sphere does not warrantbands emiLy, Victoria's Real get out there and perform like around here. They set up the Sharon Chang of Rice longevity among bands." 
Secret, and July are as good as they need to in order to any that he experienced in the progress. We definitely need Boston music scene during his more places like Dalloway's semester at Boston U. and the Loft where bands can 
He is of a different mind, play." however, on the supposed lack He also agrees with Brian of Domer interest in original Muller in that the strength of campus music. "It is often said the scene fluctuates with the that Domers just like cover quality of the current bands. bands, but if a band plays origi­"Currently the scene is very nal music and is really excited good. The mantle left by Chisel about what they are doing then and Brian, Colin & Vince has eventually people will like them been picked up by emiLy, vRS, and listen to them. If a band and July with just as much does not get the respect or gusto and talent. But next year recognition they think they will be the last for all three of deserve, than maybe it is just them and then it will be up to because people don't their mu­bands like True North and the sic. What people like is com­Roadapples to fill the void, pletely subjective and you can't whether they will be able to or fault someone for liking or not not remains to be seen." 


r-------------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAJm-MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Jake Peters 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
John Lu= Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall OTS Director ....................................... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Conrroller ..................................... Kristen Mattina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all.members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advenising  631-6900/8840  
Spans  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  


New Catechism offers liberation via understanding 
Catechisms  are  for  kids.  For more than three decades  Now John Paul II has changed  who will say, 'I accept Christ  condemnation-some  things  
Right?  Why should any uni­ of law school teaching, I have  all that.  In conjunction with  and His teaching but not the in­ deserve condemnation-but  
versity student want to learn  taught graduates of Catholic  Veritatis  Splendor,  the  stitutional Church.  Don't give  that's not what this Catechism  
his religion from a catechism?  colleges, including more from  Catechism offers Catholic col­ me  all that nonsense about  is for.  It's to strive calmly to  
Permit me to suggest a reason.  Notre Dame than from any­ lege students a key to knowl­ popes and bishops and what  show the strength and beauty  
In the February 28th Observer,  where else.  In my opinion, stu­ edge-and to liberation.  They  not.'  The Catechism reminds  of the doctrine of the faith.  
this column described some  dents at those institutions,  no longer have to depend on  us that the apostles established  Having  gone  through  the  
aspects of Veritatis Splendor,  through no fault of their own,  professors to tell them what  the institution in accordance  Catechism from cover to cover I  
the 1993 encyclical on morality.  tend to be shortchanged in the  those  professors  think  the  with the mandate of Christ to  can tell you it's serene read­ 
Veritatis, however, is part of a  treatment by those colleges of  Church teaches or ought to  Peter:  'You are Peter and on  ing."  
paired  entry,  with  the  the teachings of the Catholic  teach.  Until now, the students  you I will build My Church.'  He  On April 29, 1993, John Paul  
Catechism  of the  Catholic  Church.  In some, an orthodoxy  had no single concise and au­ said also that it must perdure  II  said that the  Catechism  
Church, issued by Pope John  of dissent prevails.  thoritative source for and up­ until the end of time.  Hence,  "serves to educate people in the  
Paul II in 1992.  What  the  students  learn  to-date  knowledge  of  the  there had to be appointed those  faith which the Catholic Church  
Church teaches.  professes  and  proclaims.  
This is the first official cate­chism of the universal Church  'The Catechism does  Now, in Veritatis and the  'This Catechism,  However, it is a gift for all. In fact, it is addressed to all and  
since the catechism of the Council of Trent was promul­gated in 1566. The English  not dispute but states the faith positively,  Catechism, students have a di­rect line, to measure their own understanding and that of their  despite advance criticism of those who  must reach (Emphasis added) Dame students.  everyone." Even Notre  
translation  of  the  new  the faith which has its  professors.  haven't yet seen it, is not  
Catechism will be published in the spring of this year.  own inner reasonable­ The Catechism is composed of four parts, or "pillars" of faith:  a list of condemnations.'  The Pope has gone over the heads of the professorial and  
Veritatis and the Catechism  ness.'  (1) the baptismal profession of  Cardinal O'Connor  clerical adherents of The New  
complement each other. "Both documents," said Cardinal  Cardinal Ratzinger  faith (or Creed); (2) the sacra­ments of the faith; (3) the life of  American Church. In Veritatis Splendor and the Catechism he  
Joseph  Ratzinger in presenting  faith (the Commandments); and  who, after Christ had ascended  offers to students, as to others,  
Veritatis, "are...  distinct and  about the Church is often fil­ (4) the prayer of the believer  into heaven and the apostles  a chance to find out for them­ 
each...  has its proper task  tered through the lens of a pro­ (the Our Father). (No. 13)  The  would have died, would still  selves what the Church is and  
whereby  one  supports  the  fessor who has a distorted idea  Catechism "is conceived as an  carry on to the end of time.''  teaches, so that they can make  
other.  of the nature of the Church and  organic presentation of the  The countercultural nature of  an  informed  judgment  for  
is hostile to its teachings.  The  whole to the Catholic faith.  the Catechism is evident also in  themselves.  Some professors  
The Catechism does not en­ curricula tend to offer the stu­ As such, it should be read as  its treatment of the family:  "A  and trendy clerics and nuns will  
gage in argument, it testifies.  It  dent no predictable opportunity  a structured whole.  This cate­ man and  a  woman united in  advise you,  as students, that  
does not dispute but states the  to study the rich Catholic tradi­ chism stresses the presentation  marriage, together with their  these  documents  were  not  
faith positively, the faith which  tion in its undistorted totality.  of  doctrine.  Its aim, in fact, is  children, form a family ... The  intended to be read by mere  
has  its  own  inner  rea­ to aid in deepening the knowl­ family is the original cell of so­ people.  They will urge you to  
sonableness.  The Encyclical  Instead, the prevailing politi­ edge of the faith.  In this way it  cial life.  It is the natural society  let them, the experts, tell you  
also bears witness, but it has,  cally correct orthodoxy is that  is meant to foster a growing  in which man and woman are  what the documents mean, or  
at the same time, a dimension  the  Church  ought  to  be  a  maturity of the faith,  a rooting  called to give themselves to  would mean if the experts had  
of argument.  It takes up ques­ democracy and that it is rigid  of the faith in life, and its  radi­ each other in love and in the  their way.  
tions and shows in discursive  and oppressive especially in its  ance  through personal wit­ gift of life."  (Nos. 2202, 2207).  
argument what the way of faith  treatment of women and its  ness."  (Nos. 18, 23)  Note that Freddy and Harry  But don't let them kid you.  
is and how it comes to be that  teachings on sex.  Unless they  cannot a family make.  Take it as a summer project to  
there even is a way for man."  select exceptional courses or  The Catechism is countercul­ read both Veritatis Splendor  
have unusual access to other  tural.  John Cardinal O'Connor,  It would be a mistake to as­ and the Catechism for yourself.  
Veritatis and the Catechism  sources, students in Catholic  Archbishop of New York, im­ sume that the Catechism is a  Pray about what you have read.  
have an overlooked role as tick­ colleges frequently absurd a  plied as much, with respect to  catalogue of rules.  As Cardinal  And make up your own mind as  
ets of liberation for students at  caricature of the Church and  the authority of "the institu­ O'Connor  put  it,  "This  to where you stand.  
Catholic and other universities  they emerge unequipped to  tional Church," in one of the 18  Catechism, despite advance  
who  seek  a  coherent  un­ make a coherent decision as to  homilies he is giving on the  criticism of those who haven't  Professor Rice is on  the Law  
derstanding  of  what  the  whether to accept or reject the  Catechism:  yet seen it, is not a list of con­ School Faculty.  His column  
Catholic Church is all about.  teachings of the Church.  "There are still some people  demnations.  We've had a lot of  appears every other Monday.  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  

HI, FOlK~! tOV& TO TAU<, f3UT I'M OFF 7D CAP/10/,H/U. TO  BCUE;V& Me, 50M&TIM&S  TOP 'a THeMORN­ 
PUT OUT ANOTHeR. fiR&!  IT'$ NOTtA9t!  /NG70  
50M&TIM£:!3I  YOU, MR.  
THIN!< TH&  13/ \  
f)JHOUJ UJORW  
I~ 6AN61N6UP  
AGAIN9TM8!  

''Weare here and it is now. Further than that, all knowledge is moon­shine." 
-H.L. Mencken 
Monday, March 21, 1994 page 11
VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Lack of support for women's basketball 
Where was the ND 
Shame on ND student body 
Dear Editor: I'm writing in regar-d to this
family at the NCAA's? 
week's women's basketball 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing to express our disappointment in the Notre Dame students. 
Last night the ND Women's Basketball team hosted the first round of the NCAA Championship Tournament. There were 2296 in atten­dance. The majority of fans appeared to be from South Bend. The students that were there did a good job of cheer­ing. However, a small but very vocal group of Minnesota fans did an excellent job of cheering on their team. 
Notre Dame likes to brag 
game, which as most of you 
about the 'Notre Dame Family', 
may know was a part of the 
where was the family last 
NCAA Tournament. 
night? The Observer should 
I was extremely disappointed 
have made a big effort to get 
with the level of student sup­
the students out to the game. 
port at the game last 
The tickets were free to the stu­
Wednesday. Looking at the 
dents, which should have been 
crowd it gave me the impres­
an incentive for greater partici­
sion that the University of 
pation. Let's support our teams 
Minnesota had more fans than 
when they go on to post season 
we had students in the crowd. 
play and become a real 'Notre 
Being a senior I've heard many 
Dame Family'. 
a time about the spirit of Notre 
ROBERTALUPO 
Dame, yet the student body did 
LINDA RILEY 
not demonstrate that spirit on 
Secretaries 
Wednesday. 
College of Engineering 
I wonder: does the so called 
Students address Police Chief 
The following is a copy of a letter from the University of Notre Dame Student Government to the South Bend Chief of Police, Ron Marciniak. regarding the St. Patrick's Day festivities at Lafayette Square Townhomes: 
Chief Ron Marciniak, 
We are writing to you as elected representatives of Notre Dame's student body, regarding the events taken place at Lafayette Square Townhomes on March 17th. Frankly, we are discouraged about the deterio­rating relationship between Notre Dame students and the South Bend Police Department. 
The confrontation that hap­pened on Thursday was an unpleasant experience for all students and police officers involved. Police dogs were used to intimidate the students, while needlessly risking injury to all those present. Most stu­dents, some intoxicated, were forced from the premises and ordered to return to their homes. 
This rash action deprived them of access to safe trans­portation from Weekend Wheels and the time needed to obtain sobriety. Students were verbally and physically harassed for no apparent rea­son other than being a Notre Dame student. Kegs and tap dispensers were removed from the homes of many students who had committed no crime and were given no information about the immediate and right­ful return of their property. This all could have been avoid­ed. Why wasn't it? 
Two years ago, a celebration 
happened on St. Patrick's Day 
with a great deal of publicity 
and seemingly little harm. A 
precedent was set last year 
when a similar event took 
place. Whether it was a com­
fortable precedent or not is of 
little importance. Your depart­
ment was aware of the likeli­
hood of another party this year, 
but no word of your concern 
was passed on to residents. 
We realize that the task force 
present at Lafayette Square on 
Thursday is entrusted with the 
responsibility of preventing and 
discouraging underage drink­
ing. However, we are uncon­
vinced that their intent was 
exclusively focused on that 
objective. Why weren't preemp­
tive measures taken before this 
ugly and unnecessary incident occurred? 
Perhaps students at Lafayette Square could have been con­tacted about the police depart­ment's concern ahead of time. Perhaps an arrangement could have been worked out allowing for students of age to have a party, and if minors were pre­sent, then citations could be handed out to those who trans­gressed the law. 
Unfortunately, no such com­munication was initiated by your office, and students pro­ceeded to hold their individual parties completely unaware of your discontent. We understand that your premeditated raid was made with the plan to apprehend minors in the pres­ence of alcohol, but we wonder if your silence served as tacit encouragement for these minors to attend. 
Could it be possible that your office wanted to have droves of minors present in order to ensure a successful raid? Was your intention to prevent minors from consuming alco­hol, or was your intention to target Notre Dame students as a potential source of revenue for the city of South Bend? Your citations (which usually result in pretrial diversion) effectively raise approximately $125 per person cited. 
While we are in no way sug­gesting that students should be exempt from any laws, we feel compelled to express the con­cerns students have with the manner in which these laws are enforced. Assuming that the motivation for the establish­ment of the SUDS task force was to discourage underage drinking and to prevent drink­ing and driving, then events such as this recent raid on St. Patrick's Day do not seem con­sistent with this mission. 
We respect the duty of the South Bend Police Department to arrest students who are in violation of the State of Indiana's drinking laws, but we are concerned that the only relationship Notre Dame stu­dents have with law enforce­ment officers is the one demon­strated at Lafayette Square. 
Students feel as though they are singled out and humiliated by officers in your department who openly display an attitude of animosity towards all Notre Dame students. Part of the problem definitely stems from the fact that some underage students drink alcohol. However, when offending stu­dents are confronted with the fact that they did break the law, most can accept their mistake and deal with it as maturely as any other citizen. 
Students at this university are intelligent and rational individ­uals who do not seek to create controversy with your depart­ment. We appreciate the diffi­cult and stressful nature of your job and understand that you are responsible for the safety and well being of an entire city, but students natu­rally become resentful when raids are conducted in such a manner. 
It is a poor use of your valu­able time when your officers are called upon to break up Notre Dame parties. There are many other needs within the community that warrant more of your attention. Certainly, there are more important allo­cations to be made with taxpay­er money than paying officers overtime to participate in these organized raids. 
While we support the fact that you must uphold the law, we hope that in the future you will not react to a problem so unprofessionally. This can only be possible if communication is established between the stu­dents and the South Bend Police Department We assure you that the student govern­ment is more than willing to play an active role in that com­munication process. 
We believe the raid which took place this past St. Patrick's Day was planned not as a legiti­mate attempt to curtail the act of underage drinking but rather as a means to generate revenue for the community. 
We find this rationale to be both troublesome and unethi­cal. If your true intention is to stop students from drinking underage, a better approach would be to use preventive measures. Remember the con­tributions that students at Notre Dame make to this com­munity. We should not be viewed as a disruptive element, but as valuable members of this community who demand to be treated with more respect. 

FRANK FLYNN 
Student Body President 
DAVI~GELING 
Student Body President-Elect 
spirit of Notre Dame only ex­which Notre Dame can be tend to the football games and proud of. Thank you for your occasional men's basketball hard work and effort through­games (which often seem to be out the season and good luck students wanting to see a na­next season. tional powerhouse and not our team). However, to the student body, 
shame on you! These fellow 
Before this game, I really students worked so hard to get thought the spirit of Notre to this point, and you showed Dame existed beyond the foot­little support. I hope next year, ball season, yet today I really when the women make the doubt that notion. How many of tourney once again, the visiting you students had something so school will truly experience the pressing that you could not take spirit of Notre Dame as I a couple hours off to support believe existed. our team? 
To conclude, I'd like to con­WAYNE GOVEIA gratulate the women's basket­Senior ball team. You are a group Alumni Hall 
Police raid: Obscene abuse of authority 
Dear Editor: 
The raid on Lafayette Square on St. Patrick's Day was an obscene abuse of authority. I am not writing to plea the inno­cence of all partygoers. Sure, minors had alcohol, which was served without a license. The law was broken, and the police intervened. I have no problem with that. But the events of Thursday afternoon illustrated how the system of law en­forcement is currently func­tioning in South Bend, and it's not a pretty picture. 
I was confused at first by what was happening. It started out as a few cops patrolling the area, and finished up as police from South Bend, Mishawaka, Public works trucks, and St. Joseph's County State Troopers, including the K-9 units of the South Bend force. I saw students being pushed without reason. I saw a student attacked by a dog controlled by an officer, and then restrained by three other officers as he tried to get the dog off of him. Many were arrested for no other reason than being in the wrong place at the wrong time. The police do not have their priorities in order. Let's look at how the police and the students interact. 
In the beginning of recent school years. thousands of dol­lars worth of valuables have been stolen from Lafayette Square. A small number of offi­cers came by over the course of that week or two to stop the thefts. One afternoon out of the year, students let the hair down and throw a big party. Soon, the block is surrounded by police cars and utility trucks from all surrounding areas. It's good to know that it is easier to jump the fence at Lafayette Square with a stereo under your arm than it is to jump it with beer on your breath. 
Face it, the cops around here do not like snot-nosed Notre Dame brats one bit. Apparently, the beer at Lafayette and Campus View is more of a problem than the gangs and drugs which flourish in this town. It's ridiculous, and it's not the way it should be. I have written to Mayor Joseph Kernan, asking why this is so. I encourage you students to do the same. Maybe we could wind up changing things around here for once. But until that time comes, be careful about messing with the cops. It seems that they really don't care what happens to you anyway. By the way, if you want to write to Mayor Kernan, his address is: Mayor Joseph Kernan/County­City Bldg./South Bend, IN 46601. Drop him a line. 
Marty Phelan 
Junior 
Flanner Hall 

r---------~----~ ~---~---~-------------------------------~-----~-------­
ACCENT 
page 12 Monday, March 21, 1994 
Siblings experience a taste of Notre Dame 
By MARK ROSENBERG a chance to see the locker room, run out of the tunnel, Accent Writer step onto the field and toss a football around, and walk around the press box. The tour had special 
Children aging between ten and sixteen were given meaning for the large number of Irish football fans the opportunity to join their sophomore siblings at among the siblings, many of whom had never seen the Notre Dame for a weekend full of activities, including field on which their favorite team played, according to a tour of Notre Dame Stadium and a dinner/ dance Collins. featuring speakers Patty O'Hara, Vice President of Although most of the sophomores were joined by Student Affairs and Oscar McBride, Notre Dame foot­just one sibling, some had several siblings joining ball player. Underlying all of these events was the them. Danielle Fresch's three siblings, aged eight, opportunity to develop a closer relationship with their twelve and fifteen, traveled to Notre Dame for the older siblings and to get a preview of life at Notre weekend. Fresch described the weekend as, "chaotic Dame, or any university. but interesting." 
The Sibs Weekend was organized by Sara Ford, a Due to the variety of age groups there evolved differ­sophomore who also entertained a brother for the ent perspectives of Notre Dame; the oldest sibling was weekend. Ford felt that the goals of the weekend were actively seeking out the university as a place she to, "provide fun activities and give sophomores a would like to attend, mean while the younger siblings chance to give their siblings a taste of Notre Dame." were primarily curious to see where their sister lived 
Events were specifically selected by Ford and her during most of the year. Fresch also noted an unusual assistants to appeal to younger siblings aging between fringe benefit of having three siblings attend the week­ten and sixteen. The events were designed to convey end, "it gives my parents a weekend off to go to the sense of family at Notre Dame by allowing siblings Chicago." to become closer to their older brothers and sisters in While the activities presented during the weekend an enjoyable environment, without parents or other gave the siblings a strong sense of what daily life at family members. Ford added that the sophomore year Notre Dame is like, Ford stressed that this was not a was the perfect time to hold such an activity because recruiting weekend. Instead, the weekend was freshmen are still adjusting to university life, while designed to strengthen the bond between sophomores many juniors are studying abroad. and their siblings while providing insight into what
Sophomores and their siblings enjoy a weekend together. 
Of the various events of the weekend, the dinner/ college life is like. dance was one of the favorites of both the sophomores speeches offering informative advice to the sopho­According to Collins, Sophomore Sibs weekend was and their siblings. Sophomore Chris Collins described mores and their siblings. successful because it presented his brother with an the dinner as classy, adding , "[it] made the siblings While most of the sophomores enjoyed the dinner, awareness of college life. Collins believed the weekend feel as if they really counted." Collins also felt that many participants also favored the tour of Notre Dame allowed his siblings to, "know what my life is like at O'Hara and McBride gave effective, entertaining Stadium. The tour gave sophomores and their siblings Notre Dame." 

Association shares Mrican culture 
By ANDREW HORN Accent Writer 
The African Film Festival, which begins today and will run through Thursday, March 24, is the second of its kind being held this year by the Notre Dame African Students' Association. 
The Notre Dame African Students' Association, in its sixth year, is composed of about 40 African students, alumni, and non-African affili­ates. 
The primary goals of the association are, "to foster unity and good relationships among African students at Notre Dame by providing an environment where they can feel at home, to educate the Notre Dame and South Bend communities in African issues, customs and culture and to foster a working relationship with other organi­zations, such as the African American Students Associ­ation, the Graduate Student Union Board, and the Inter­national Students Organiza­tion," according to secretary Rosette Muzigo. 
Muzigo found out about the association before she came to the United States. The associ­ation communicates with the Office of Admissions to find out about incoming African stu­dents, and contacts them soon after they are admitted. 
The association helped Muzigo make travel arrange­ments to South Bend and wel­comed her when she arrived. She has been active in the as­sociation ever since. 
Muzigo particularly stresses the sense of community the or­ganization provides for African students on campus. 
"We are far away from home," she said, "and it is im­portant that we come together as Africans, especially to dis­cuss things that are going on at home." 
The group also provides much-needed emotional sup­port when, for example, some­one loses a relative and cannot return home. 
Ignorance about African is­sues and culture is a problem on this campus that the Notre Dame African Students' Association addresses. 
"Many people think Africa is one country," Muzigo joked. 
This misconception prompted the association to make T -shirts with maps depicting the many countries of the African conti­nent with their national flags. 
Guillaume Zounlome, President of the Notre Dame African Students' Association and a graduate student pursu­ing a Ph.D. in government, remarked on the organization's educational role, "It is impor­tant that we [the association] keep up the effort to make Africa more known to the whole Notre Dame community, to educate them in African issues and realities." 
"There is much more to Africa than its political and social problems," Zounlome said. "The media is very nega­tive. Events like the film festi­val show people the many good things that come out of Africa." 
"As for the association, the festival brings us together," Muzigo said, "it generates dis­cussions about what role we can play here and when we return home." 
The festival also contributes to the university's resources; the four films being shown this week, as well as seven other African films, are being pur­chased by the University and will become a part of its perma­nent film library. 
The films featured in this semester's festival deal with issues of human rights, gender issues, anti-apartheid, and par­ticularly South African issues, history and culture. 
"Allah Tanto" ("God's Will") is a particularly powerful story by director David Achkar about his own father, an international diplomat, actor and dancer imprisoned in Guinea in 1968 by the corrupt regime of Sekou Toure and executed in 1971. No one, including his family, knew of his death until 1984, when Toure died, his regime ended, and the prisons were opened. 
Zounlome considers this film particularly important because "by showing actual human rights abuses, [we make people realize] how important it is not to fall into making the same mistakes." 
Zounlome came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1989, when the association was only a year old and many of the events took place during African Week in early September. As he went on to become vice president and later president, he recog­nized the advantage of spread­ing the events out over the aca­demic year. 
Now the association has a full and varied calendar. A lecture and seminar last September by Professor Robert Fatton Jr. of the University of Virginia at Charlottesville focused on African politics and Africa's place in recent international political history. 
In February1 the rich oral tra­dition of Africa was brought to campus with "African Storytelling and Poetry," held at the Snite Museum, which included an exchange of proverbs told at home by the elders of individual tribes. 
A highlight event of the Notre Dame African Students Association is the annual "Kouassa-Kouassa," which translates to "shake that body." It is a dinner and dance party, held this year in September at Wilson Commons, featuring foods from all over the conti­nent. This year's Kouassa­Kouassa attracted about 200 people from the entire South Bend area. 
Events such as Kouassa­Kouassa are open to the public and have attracted people from 
Monday, March 21 
Mandabi {The Money Order) by Ousmane Sembene 
A heartbreaking comedy about a man who, engaged in the presumably simple task of cashing a money order, runs up against an impenetrable Third World bureaucracy. 
Tuesday, March 22 Allah Tantou (God's Will) by David Achkar 
The story of Marof Achkar, the director's father. A former international diplomat, actor, and dancer, Achkar appears in the film imprisoned by his own government. In a desperate struggle to make sense of whAt has happened to him, he begins to discover himself. 
Wednesday, March 23 The Power of One by John Avildsen 
Set in the 1930s and 1940s in South Africa. An English boy sees and experiences the brutalities of pro-Nazi afrikaner nationalism, and as he matures, joins his African friends in their struggle for justice. 

Thursday, March 24 Mapantsu/a by Thomas Mogotlane and Oliver Schmitz 
The first anti-apartheid feature film by, for and about South Africans. The film portrays the political and moral awakening of a young gangster in the midst of a township's struggle for survival. 
many colleges and universities in the area. 
Zounlome and Muzigo both feel it is important that people get involved in the association's activities. 
"We feel we are global citi­zens," says Muzigo, "and it doesn't make sense to isolate ourselves from the [larger] community." 
All are welcome in the Notre Dame African Students' Association and can get involved by attending the gen­eral meetings, signing up on Activities Night, or simply talk­ing to members after events such as Kouassa-Kouassa and the film showings. 



~---------------­
Monday, March 21, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
1994 NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: GOLD RING W/ GREAT 
SENTIMENTAL VALUE 
REWARD OFFERED IF FOUND 
PLEASE CALL X4298 
LOST • in SOH Green LL Bean 
backpack & running shoes. 
Reward. Call Mary 4·2240. 
Found -Watch outside SOH Tues. 
am call4-3710 to identify 
Found-lady's watch in Nieuwland on Wed. Call 631·6387 to identify 
We know the sound of two hands clapping, but what is the sound of one hand clapping? My right hand still lacks a black leather ladies' glove! Call Beth x 4994. 
WANTED 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860· 0219 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING • Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World travel. Summer & Full· Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1·206·634-0468 ext. C5584 
Looking for a Used Car in Good Condition. Call 4·2029. 
Wanted: A used car in good condi· lion. Call4-2029. 
Summer Girl Needed • Chicago North suburbs. Live in & help care for infant, 2,7, & 11 yr. olds. Prefer non-smoker w/ drivers license. Salary + room & board. Interested person call 708·295·3493. 
GREEKS & CLUBS EARN $50· $250 FOR YOURSELF plus up to $500 for your club! This fundraiser costs nothing and lasts one week. Call now and receive a free gift. 
Wor1< in the Wild! Tour guide, dude ranch, instructor.lifeguard, trail maintenance, hotel staff, firefighter 
+ volunteer and government posi· lions available at national parks. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Over 25,000 openings! Apply now for best positions. For more info call: 1· 206-545-4804 ext. N5584 
MANAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES. Arthur Victor Painting, Inc. is searching for ambitious students to fill summer management positions throughout Indiana including South Bend. Complete training and field support. High income potential. 1· 800-775-4745. 
Female roomate to live off-campus 
(anywhere) next year. 
Please call Carolyn 284-4356 
SUBWAY is NOW HIRING It you are an enthusiastic, depend· able self starter, we would like to talk to you. Flexible hours and friendly atmosphere. Call Jacki or Penny at 277·7744 for an interview. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING • Eam up to $2000+/month wor1<ing on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com· panies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C6675 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the life of a childl Summer therapy camp for handicapped children. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, MI. Positions available for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 19 through August 14. Salary, room & board, and experience of lifetime provided. Call or write for applica· tion and infonnation. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette. Ml 49855. (906)228-sno. 
CARPENTERS HELPER: Seasonal position with large apartment com­munity. Basic knowledge of wood­wor1<ing. Will train the right person. Apply in person M·F, 9·5 to Hickory Village Apartments, 4312 Hickory, north of Edison. 
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN· NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC· ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN­TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 extA29. 
SUMMER LIFE GUARD We need 1 or 2 fully-certified life· guards for our miniature wave pool in Granger. 40 hr. wk. at $5.50/hr. Complete season hours. Season 5/25/94-labor day, 1994. Weekends only after school starts. Call Jim Wyllie 277·1335. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, 
KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF 
CAMPUS. 272·0615 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES· ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153 
Turtle Creek Townhome for school 
year of 1994-95 is available. Call 
Reg at x1480 for infonnation. 
HAVE 2 BOA APT· LOOKING 
FOR FML ROOMMATE FOR 1ST 
SEM ONLY '94 AT CASTLE PT. 
CALL 284·4045 OR x4394 BED AND BREAKFAST for gradua­tion and football weekends. 2 bed· rooms (twins) and 1 bedroom (sin· gle) with separate bath ·10 minutes from campus. Reasonable, call 234·2626 
REMODELED 1 BR HOME $400 MO. DEPOSIT REQUIRED CALL 256·91 09 AFTER 5:00 PM GRAD· UATE STUDENT PREFERRED. 
FOR SALE 
1984 BUICK ELECTRA LTD. LIGHT BLUE 4-DOOR CALL X3001 W/ OFFER 
FOR SALE • INDY 500 TICKETS. 
GREAT 3RD +4TH TURN 
ACTION. CALL 272-7233. 
FOR SALE-Mac Powerbook 100 with 4140 memory, contains Word 
5.0 and misc. others $800/best offer call Matt x3444 
ZENITH 286 Desktop LP, 20/40 MB fixed disks, 3.5" floppy, mouse, modem, 14" VGA color monitor, programs+ EPSON L-1000 Action Printer. $375.00 includes desk, shelves, and p-stand. CALL 273·1984 w/ offer! 
PERSONAL 
SUMMER JOBS • ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1--800­786-8373 
Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
UsUess 
And if you can't be with the one you love, honey Love the one you're with. 
Missy:O), Happy sixteenth! Love. 
Hannie -I==I-> 
Margaret, Have a happy happy happy happy happy happy happy happy happy happy happy happy happy happy birthdayllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Love, Robert 
Yeah Rugby Twins! 
Big dancers dwindle 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
There are 16 teams left in the NCAA tournament and 15 games to play before a national champion is crowned. 
The regional semifinals start Thursday night and by late Sunday afternoon there will be only four teams left. No wonder those four days are considered by many as the best of the col­lege basketball season. 
EAST 
When: Friday and Sunday. Where: Miami. Who: Fifth-seeded In­
diana vs. ninth-seeded Boston College and second-seeded Connecticut vs. third-seeded Florida. 
What: The Indiana­Boston College game is the ul­timate blue-collar matchup, teams whose highlight films would feature screens and de­fensive switches. Boston College comes in off the upset of top­seeded North Carolina so there won't be a repeat national champion. Indiana has contin­ued winning despite being physically run down and its 

depth will be tested with the loss of freshman guard Sherron Wilkerson to a broken leg. 
Connecticut is waiting for star forward Donyell Marshall to break out in the tournament while Florida advanced with the backcourt-oriented team style that worked all season. Miami's a long way from Gainesville, but the Gators are by far the closest thing to a home team in this regional. 
SOUTHEAST When: Thursday and Saturday. Where: Knoxville, Tenn. 
Who: Top-seeded Pur­due vs. fourth-seeded Kansas and sixth-seeded Marquette vs. 
finals for the first time since 1979. It should be quite a matchup in the middle with Duke's Cherokee Parks against Jim Mcilvaine of the Warriors. 
MIDWEST 
When: Friday and Sunday. Where: Dallas. Who: Top-seeded 
Arkansas vs. 12th-seeded Tulsa and 10th-seeded Maryland vs. third -seeded Michigan. 
What: The region of upsets. The news could be bad for Tulsa, the fifth straight 12th seed to advance to the regional semifinals and all have been knocked out in that round by a top-seeded team. Arkansas, the team with the country's No. 1 fan in Washington, beat the Golden Hurricane earlier in the season in overtime. The game is a matchup of coach Nolan Richardson's current school and the one that gave him his first Division I job. Tulsa was impressive in beating UClA and Oklahoma State, and Gary Collier is no longer an un­known. 
Michigan is looking to get to its third straight national cham­pionship game and it will play a team almost as young as the Wolverines were the last two seasons when the Fab Five advanced as freshmen and sophomores. Maryland starts 
AP 
two freshmen and three sopho­mores and were impressive in both tournament victories. 
WEST 
When Thursday and Saturday. Where: Los Angeles. Who: Top-seeded Mis­
souri vs. fourth-seeded Syra­cuse and second-seeded Ari­zona vs. third-seeded Louisville. 
What: The most maligned of the regions when the draw was announced is the only one to advance its top four seeds. The Missouri-Syracuse matchup is one of maligned coaches, Norm Stewart and Jim Boeheim, who have been badgered over a lack of success in the tournament. 
1st Round 2nd Round Reglonals 

(9) Wisconsin 80 1 Ogde~;ut"iih" ·· March 17 & 19 
i~;;~:::~:6:-:~ I(12) wis.-G.B. 59 . acuse (4) Syracuse 92 
(13) Hawaii 78 ............1 (4) Syracuse 64 
Los Angeles March 24&26 (~)~~r1r1~~ta 74 ·_-_} (6) Minnesota (~!2.~?.:_11_1ir1<J.i~-~---~ 
.J~t~<J.L:Ji~~ill~---·· 
(~!..~<>.IJ.i~.,.jll~-~! ....... 
(14) Boise St. 58 l--(~)~~~i-~~ill~---···· Sacl'llmento, CaiH. 
(7) Virginia 57 March 18 & 20 ~ (7) Virginia 58
(10) New Mex. 54 
(2) Arizona 

Charlotte, N.C. April2 
(1) Ar1<ansas 
i~--~~~~;~~~ "}%~::!~e~~OkJa. 
(5) UCLA 102 March 18 & 20 
(12) Tulsa 112 }J!?.l.!IJ.I!l.iJ...S.?.........., ( ) Tulsa
12 
~;~~-~~:~,=~0 (4) Okla. St. 80 Dallas March 25 &27 
( ) seed Bold numbers-score 
second -seeded Duke. 
What: There aren't many peopl1l left who don't know Purdue's Glenn Robinson, the nation's leading scorer and the only unanimous All­America selection. The Boiler­makers will face a Kansas team that played excellent defense in advancing just as it did last year in getting to the Final Four. 
Duke was knocked out in the second round last year, ending a run of five straight Final Fours and back-to-hack na­tional championships. Mar­quette kept Kentucky from re­turning to the Final Four and advanced to the regional semi-

Semifinals Semifinals Reglonals 2nd Round 1st Round 
National Championship 
Charlotte, N.C. April4 
CHAMPIONSHIP GAME 
Charlotte, N.C. 
Knoxville, Tenn. March 24 & 26 (6) Marquette 81 
(6) Marquette J (6) Marquett~__7S .. t... -----~~!)__~~~~
....................,
(3) Kentucky 63 A-............<~L~~-~­St Petersburg, Fla., ..........<.1 ~)!1l'.1!1:..~: ..~. 

March 18 &20 (7) Michigan St. 84 
(2) Duke ....... <!~~t~~~~~-~
Y
...... ··········· 
(2) Duke 82 
Miami 
March 25 & 27 (6) Nebraska 80 ___ (1!).~1!.".."...~.............( 
(11) Penn 90 
(3) Florida 
(3) Florida 70 r·· J~) 1"1<>.~ 11.4 ·····li"~i;;~d;i~~":-v:·-l ....<~_~>..J.~-~~--~ 
March 17 &19 (7) Ala.·Birmingham 48 
.om~~,\'\'~~~-~~ (10) Geo. wash. 51 ....J~JS:.<>.r1~': j
m•l.l?.!~<>.rlrl:.?.~ ..nmt ........ (~~-~;;;;_: 
(8) Wash. St. 64 
(9) Boston Coli 75.f" ········································· 
...... L;;;;;:;;;,-..~-:-, ..........<~>... ~<>."..9.>.11_:_8! 
March 18 &20 (5) Indiana 84 
<~>..~~~i~~~---J_((54)) lli~e-~mi~p-~lae_658?.............t__-_.._ (12) Ohio 72 , .. l~)!~~~ 
(13) Drexel 39 
CHAMPION [..............................................................: 

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, March 21, 1994 
Gretzky catches Gordie 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. The burden of the chase is off Wayne Gretzky at last. 
Gretzky scored twice Sunday to match Gordie Howe's NHL mark of 801 ca­reer goals, then turned the tension that surrounded his pursuit of one of hockey's greatest records into a sigh of celebration . 
"It's a tremendous relief for me, believe me," said Gretzky, whose second goal with 49 seconds left in regulation lifted the Los Angeles Kings to a 6-6 tie with the San Jose Sharks. 
"I feel a lot more at ease now and I'll feel more so after I get 802. I hope it's a relief to the team, too. Something like this is exciting and fun, but it can be wearing, too. After I get the record, every­
one  can  go  on  with their  
lives."  
Gretzky  had  gone  four  

games without a goal after reaching 798 and had just one goal in his previous seven games as he headed into Sun­day's game with 799. But he broke loose for a pair of goals to catch Howe while playing one of the Kings' chief rivals for a playoff berth. 
"It was a tough situation with the excitement, with everything that's going on, and with the 'Gretzky-watch,' the excitement is tripled," Kings coach Barry Melrose said. ''I'd love to get the 'Gretzky-watch' over with and I'm sure Wayne would, too. Then we could only worry about the playoffs." 
Though the last two weeks were frustrating at times, Gretzky still demonstrated unparalleled speed in match­ing Howe, his childhood idoL 
It took the 33-year-old Gretzky just 15 seasons to equal what Howe did in 26 years. 
He could have the record for himself as soon as Wednes­day, when the Kings play host to Vancouver or, failing that, perhaps against his former Edmonton Oilers .team on Fri­day. 
-·­

~~~~~::.~ 
Grape Rd., Mishawaka 277-7946 explraa 3131194 
Tulsa tips Okla. St. 
By DOUG FERGUSON 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY 
Tulsa continued its surprising ride through Midwest Regional Sunday, rallying from a 12­point deficit in the second half behind Pooh Williamson to upset No. 4 seed Oklahoma State, 82-80. 
Williamson scored 14 of his 20 points in the second half and came up with several huge plays, but it was Lou Dawkins who finished off the Cowboys with a 3-pointer from the left corner with 8.6 seconds left. 
That gave 12th-seeded Tulsa (23-7) an 82-78 lead, and the Cowboys managed only a follow shot from Bryant Reeves before time expired on them. 
It was the fifth straight year that a 12th seed advanced into the Sweet 16. 
Dawkins seemed to have hurt Tulsa's chances by missing the front end of a one-and-one with 59 seconds left. But Gary Collier, who led the Golden Hurricane with 25 points, grabbed the miss and put it back in for a 79-78 lead. 
Reeves, so dominant in the 
first half for the Cowboys (24­10), had a 5-footer go in and out with 41 seconds left, then Dawkins hit his 3-pointer with three seconds left on the shot clock. 
Reeves scored 32 for Oklahoma State, which had defeated Tulsa 73-61 earlier this season. The Hurricane was without Shea Seals in that game, and the Cowboys played this one with out Fred Burley, who was suspended for break­ing unspecified team rules. 
Seals had 13 for Tulsa, includ­ing a 3-pointer that tied the game at 66 and a follow shot 
over  Reeves  that gave  the  
Hurricane a 74-73 lead.  
Brooks  Thompson,  the  

Cowboys' second-leading scorer at 17 points a game, was held scoreless in the second half and fmished with 11. 
The Hurricane rallied from a 50-39 halftime deficit that had grown to 54-42 on Reeves' turnaround jump shot with 17:23. 
Collier hit a 3-pointer, and Williamson hit a driving layup and a 3-pointer to get Tulsa to within 56-54. 
0 
0 

Wednesday, March 23, 1994 7 p.m. Library Auditorium 
Comments from fellow Notre Dame students who have seen David: 
·Absolutely an exceUent presentation -­one of the best I've ever seen.· 
"I laughed, I cried, I'd see it again and again. It was better than CATS! Seriously--Awesome" 
·A presenter and presentation I will remember forever.· 
"Inspirational and educational." "Excellent, bring him back." "Quite a coup to get someone this good to speak.· ·oavid was fabulous and entertaining with a clear and important message." 
Sponsored by The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education and Students Against Driving Drunk 
-·­
By NICHOLAS K. GERANIOS  Third-seeded Louisville (28-5)  ed Minnesota (21-12) with 20  
Associated Press  will play Arizona (27 -5) in Los  points, including four three- 
Angeles.  pointers. 
SACRAMENTO, Calif.  Morton hit five 3-pointers in a  Morton  scored  eight  of  
Dwayne Morton scored 26  seesaw game that featured a  Louisville's first 14 points as  
points, including five in a row  combined 19 long range shots.  the Cardinals jumped to a 14­ 
that gave Louisville a final lead,  His  final  3-pointer  gave  11 lead. But the Gophers re­ 
as  the Cardinals beat Min­ Louisville the lead for good at  sponded with 16 unanswered  
nesota 60-55 Sunday to ad­ 56-55 with 1:20 left, and two  points en route to a 34-22 half­ 
vance to the Sweet 16 of the  free throws iced the victory.  time advantage.  
NCAA tournament.  Voshon Lenard led sixth-seed- Four 3-pointers keyed an 18-4  
'' ·  Louisville run to open the sec­ 
ond half. The Cardinals took  
the lead 40-38 with 10:14 left  
on Greg Minor's jump shot.  
The lead  began whipping  
between the teams. Lenard's 3­ 
pointer gave the Gophers a 46­ 
45 lead. Morton's two  free  
throws swung the lead back to  
Louisville,  then  a  3  by  
Townsend Orr gave the advan­ 
tage back to Minnesota 49-47.  
Jason Osborne stole the ball  
and slammed a dunk to tie the  
game at 52-52 with 3:51 left.  
Osbourne's free throw gave  
Louisville the lead.  
Lenard's responed with anoth­ 
er 3-pointer to put Minnesota  
ahead 55-53.  
Then Morton's fifth 3-pointer  
gave Louisville a 56-55 lead.  
Photo Courtesy of Louisville Sports  Minnesota's Arriel McDonald  

~-----~ 
Monday, March21, 1994 The Observer • NCAA TOURNAMENT page 15 
Louisville marches on, 60-55 
Reeves turns tables, Arizona advances 
"'-­
The Louisville Cardinals rallied to defeat .the Golden Gophers of Minnesota 60-55 to advance to the West Reg1onals. 
missed two free throws with 51 seconds left, and Morton was fouled on the rebound attempt. He hit both for a 58-55 Louisville lead. 
The Observer 
Lenard missed two 3-point attempts in the closing seconds. David Grim added 14 points for 
ifJOrts Department is now accepting applications for the followin 
positions: 
Minnesota, 12 in the first half. Neither team shot well in the game, with Louisville hitting 41
Copy Editors 
percent of its shots and Minnesota 41.5. The Cardinals of the Metro
Staff writers 
Conference are making their second consecutive trip to the Sweet 16. They last played
Any interested parties should contact George Dohrmann 
Arizona in the 1982 Mideast
at 631-4543 or come to The Observer office 
Region semifinal, with on the 3rd floor ofLaFortune. 
Louisville winning. 
TURN IN YOUR FAVORITE UNDERGRADUATE TEACHER FOR THE: 
FRANK O'MALLEY AWARD 
Pick up nomination papers in the Student Government office. 
They are due back by March 25th. 
-
By WENDY E. LANE points. Associated Press "Everybody said coming in they had the best backcourt in SACRAMENTO, Calif. 
the country, and I don't think Defensive specialist Khalid 
you'll get a lot of disagreement Reeves hadn't heard of Junior 
from us," Virginia coach Jeff Burrough until Burrough got 
Jones said. the best of him in the first half. 
Ray Owes had 15 points and The second half belonged to 
10 rebounds while JosephReeves. 
Blair added 12 rebounds for Reeves burned Cornel Parker· 
the Wildcats. Arizona coach for 21 of his 30 points in the 
Lute Olson said his team's 47­second half Sunday, taking 
46 rebounding edge, especially Arizona into the round of 16 
its 36 defensive boards, was with a 71-58 victory over Vir­
the key. ginia in the West Regional. 
"The defensive rebounding"I think in the first half I 
was critical," he said. wasn't moving with the ball," 
"Virginia is a tremendous of­Reeves said. "I came into the 
fensive-rebounding team, but second half knowing I'm al­
we got some of our own." ways aggressive in the second Junior Burrough led the half. I just played my heart 
Cavaliers (18-13) with 20 but out." 
missed 13 of his 22 shots. Parker, who held Reeves to 
Virginia shot 31 percent from nine points in the first half, 
the field. picked up his third foul early 
Arizona used a 20-2 run late in the second and couldn't 
in the first half to take a 33-26 keep a lid on Reeves, who a 
halftime lead. But the day earlier had responded 
Cavaliers got back in the game "Cornel who?" when asked 
with a 13-2 spurt, cutting the about the Virginia senior. 
Wildcats' lead to 41-39 with "He knew I had two fouls," 
15:06 to play. Parker said. "Mter I picked up 
Then Reeves took over, scor­my third, I guess I was pretty 
ing nine straight points and timid the rest of the game." 
putting the Wildcats ahead by"He's a great defender," 
eight. He capped his rompReeves said, "but he just 
with a tough bank shot and didn't play the way he did in 
grabbed a defensive rebound the first half." 
at the other end. Not by a long shot. 
In the first half, the Wildcats Reeves opened the second 
fell behind 21-13, then scored half by scoring second-seeded 16 unanswered points.Arizona's first six points. He 
Stoudamire had nine pointsmade 10 of 20 shots from the 
during the run while Arizona field and was 10-of-13 from 
hit the defensive boards and the line. 
pressed the Cavaliers. Arizona, a first-round loser 
"They increased their defen­the last two years as a high 
sive intensity and tried to pres­seed, advanced to meet the 
sure the basketball more," winner of Minnesota-Louisville 
Jnes said. "We tried to rush on Thursday in Los Angeles. 
things." While Reeves stayed busy penetrating seventh-seeded 
Reeves, who leads the Virginia's defense, the rest of 
Wildcats with a 24-point aver­the Wildcats dominated the 
age, scored only three pointsboards and held the Cavaliers 
in the game's first 17 minutes scoreless for 7:37 late in the while being guarded by game. By the time Harold 
Parker. But Reeves, who Deane's jumper ended Vir­
scored 32 in a first-round win ginia's drought with 2:20 re­
over Loyola of Maryland, gotmaining, Arizona (27 -5) held a 
loose for three consecutive 62-48lead. 
baskets while Parker sat out Reeves' backcourt mate, the final three minutes of the Damon Stoudamire, scored 20 
first half. 

Consider a Concentration in Science, Technology & Values 
•Take 
a Course 

•
Elect the Concentration 


•Consider an Inter~disciplinary Career 
•Meet Others Sharing Your Interests/Concerns 
"STV Courses \Take Up The Questions Of Our Lives" 
Informational Meeting: Tuesday, ~Aarch 22 . 8:00 ...9:00 p.m.. Room 115 O'Shaughnessy 
~~­
r 

Associated Press Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski, shown here after his 1991 national championship, watched his Blue Devils advance on Sunday past Michigan State 85-74. 
Devilish defense helps Duke advance 
By BEN WALKER Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 
All-America Grant Hill and the Duke Blue Devils shut out high-scoring Shawn Respert until early in the second half and defeated Michigan State 85-74 Sunday in the second. round of the NCAA Southeast Regional. 
Hill scored 25 points and led a dominating defense that .sent Duke (25-5) into the round of 16 for the eighth time in the last nine years. 
Cherokee Parks added 24 points for the second-seeded Blue Devils, who will play Marquette in Knoxville, Tenn., on Thursday night. The sixth­seeded Warriors surprised Kentucky 75-63 earlier at the ThunderDome. 
Respert, averaging nearly 25 points, was held scoreless on just one shot in the first half and forced into six turnovers. His first basket came with 
16:49 left, and a late flurry in the final minutes enabled him to finish with 22 points. · The game may have-been the last for Michigan State coach Jud Heathcote. The 66-year­old Heathcote led the Spartans to a 21-11 record this year, and has said he will decide this summer whether to retire after 18 seasons at the school. 
Hill, known for his defense and much as offense, stuck close to Respert for most of the game, often fighting through several picks. Even when Respert seemed to shake free, Antonio Lang or Marty ·Clark or Chris Collins rushed to pick him up. 
Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski, who relied on his outside shooters to beat Texas Southern 82-70 in the first round, vowed to go inside to Parks and flill against the Spartans. The strategy worked as Duke built up a 10-point lead late in the first half and was ahead by at least three points the rest of the way. 
WYOlA 
E;IJ·, ~UNIVERSITY
S:: · ; CHICAGO 
~ B0 ~~.u~\: 0 The Graduate School 
of Business MBA 
Professional education for positions of leadership in the Jesuit tradition of excellence. 
Candidates may begin program in any quarter. 
For information call312-915-6120 or complete coupon below. 
Water Tower Campus 820 North Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois 60611  Loyola is an equal opportunity employer/educator.  
Mail To: Name  Loyola University Chicago Graduate Business School 820 N. Michigan Ave. • Chicago, IL 60611  UNO  

Telephone No. 
Mailing Address 
City · State Zip 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Marquette maintains poise as Kentucky falls 
By FRED GOODALL Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG. Fla. 
Tony Miller handled Kentucky's defensive pressure and Marquette survived one of the Wildcats' furious second­half rallies Sunday to advance to the Sweet 16 for the first time in 15 years with a 75-63 victory in the NCAA Southeast regional. 
Damon Key scored 25 points and Miller, a 5-foot-11 play­maker with a three times as many assists as turnovers this season, broke Kentucky's. vaunted full-court trapping de­fense for a key basket as the sixth-seeded Warriors (24-8) held on after blowing most of an 18-point lead. 
Tony Delk scored 22 of his 24 points in the second half as third-seeded Kentucky, which three times this season over­came double-digit deficits to win, rallied from a 42-24 deficit. 
The Kentucky guard scored 12 in a 15-0 run the Wildcats used to get back into the game, then made his fourth 3-pointer during a 10-2 spurt that trimmed Marquette's lead to 56-54 with 6:40 to go. 
Miller took over from there, dribbling the length of the floor . to beat Kentucky pressure and make a layup over Jared Prickett, then avoiding costly mistakes down the stretch. · 
Marquette made 10 of 12 free throws in the final 2: 19 and held Kentucky (27-7) to 32 per­cent shooting from the field, including 10 of 38 3-point at­tempts. The Wildcats were only 1-for-11 on 3-pointers in the opening half. 
The victory sends Marquette into the Sweet 16 for the first time since 1979 and only the second time since the Warriors won their only national title in 1977. 
Tempo figured to be a key and Miller's ability to handle Kentucky's full-court pressure and the Warriors' patience on offense were the keys to the Warriors building their 39-24 halftime lead. 
Kentucky went nearly seven minutes without a field goal and Marquette took control with Key and Amal McCaskill scoring inside and Robb Logterman and Anthony Pieper contributing timely 3-pointers during a 23-7 surge that put the Warriors up 30-16. 
Key had 10 points at the half, while McCaskill, playing 13 minutes because of Jim Mcilvaine's foul trouble, was 4­for-4 from the field and had nine points, six rebounds, a block and a steal. 
Kentucky rallied from a half­time deficit to win six times this season, but wasn't quite equal to the task after Roney Eford made a 3-pointer to give Marquette a 42-24 lead a minute into the second half. 
Monday, March 21, 1994 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
Washington's Chad Hartvigson (4-0) went eight innings and gave up seven hits and two runs for the victory. 
Irish freshman Larry Mohs took the loss for Notre Dame giving up three hits and two runs in 4. 2 innings on the mound. Mohs was the third of five Irish pitchers in the game. 
On Thursday, the Irish pounded out1one more hit than Tennessee, but fell to the Volunteers 8-5. 
Price took the loss allowing five hits and three runs in a four inning performance. 
Notre Dame drew within a run of the Volunteers in the seventh inning on Mapes' two­run home run, but Tennessee pulled away with a run in both the eighth and ninth innings. 
Junior Bob Lisanti led the Irish with three hits including a double while Mapes added two including the seventh inning blast and Greg Layson chipped in two also. Sollmann, Haas, Topham and Robbie Kent also contributed hits to the Irish effort. 
Tim Kraus, the first of four Irish pitchers, got the win with three shutout innings in an exhibition against Chou University. 
~~AS YOU WISH'' 
I M P 0 R T S 
10-50% OFF~ 
Jewelry, Accessories, & Clothing
from 
Guatemala Nepal Peru Brazil Mexico India 
March 21-26 (Sat.)
10 a.m.-5 p.m.
LaFortune Rm. 108 
(near telephones) 
GET REAL EXPERIENCE MANAGING A BUSINESS 
APPLY FOR A STUDENT MANAGER POSITION AT THE HUDDLE 
REWARDS: 
• 
$6.10 PER HOUR 

• 
WORK ON CAMPUS 

• 
FREE MEALS AT WORK 

• 
GREAT EXPERIENCE TO ADD TO YOUR RESUME 


REQUIREMENTS: 
• 
I 5-20 HR'S PER WEEK 

• 
A STRONG DESIRE TO LEARN *HARD WORK 

• 
WORK SOME NlGHf SHIFTS 

• 
WORK SOME WEEKENDS 

• 
BE ABLE TO WORK EXTRA ON HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 


APPLY IN PERSON AT THE Hl.IDDLE LOCATED IN Tiffi LAFORTUNE STIIDENT CENTER ASK FOR JIM. 631-6902 POSillON IS FOR FALL SEMESTER TRAINING WILL START AS SOON AS THE SUCCESSFUL APPLICANTS ARE AVAILABLE. COULD WORK TinS SliMMER IF DESIRED 
•
Hoosiers hit 3's, oust Owls, 6 7-58 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Assoiated Press 
lANDOVER, Md. 
Bob Knight and John Chaney, two feisty coaches seemingly out of the same mold, finally met and the guy with history on his side came away the winner. 
Indiana used an aggressive defense and some sharp­shooting from 3-point range Sunday to advance to the final 16 of the NCAA tournament for the fourth straight year with a 67-5 8 victory over Temple. 
The win gave Knight 40 vic­tories in NCAA tournament play, a number reached only by UCLA's John Wooden and North Carolina's Dean Smith. He has been to the Final Four five times, winning the nation­al championship in 1976, '81 and '87. 
Only Wooden with 10 and Kentucky's Adolph Rupp with four have won more. 
The East Regional game marked the first matchup between Knight and Chaney, two men with enormous respect for each other. 
'It was certainly a great pleasure to go against a mas­ter in this buisness, a man who has done a tremendous job of developing character in his team," Chaney said. "We both felt like athletes our­selves, and I felt really good about that. I just wish I could have shot a jump shot, though." 
The Owls could have used some offense. Despite taking 19 more field-goal attempts than the Hooisers, they shot only 33 percent from the floor and missed 15 of 21 3-point­ers. 
Indiana made 22 of 48 shots -including 10 of 20 3-point­ers. 
Brian Evans scored 18 points 
and Todd Leary had 13 of his 
15 in the second half for fifth-seeded Indiana (21-8}. Temple (23-8}, the fourth seed, got 24 points from Eddie Jones and 18 from Aaron McKie, both playing their last college game. 
"I love playing against Temple. They play hard and they compete," Knight said. "John has always had a great appreciation for defensive play, but I thought we played well defensively today, too. 
"Temple is a heckuva a team, and I told John Chaney, there's nobody I'd less rather see us beat than he and his team because of the admira­tion I have for him and how hard they play," Knight said. 
And so the Hoosiers are back in the round of 16, despite an up-and-down season that fea­tured a 50-point loss and injuries to several starters. The team will have to play the rest of the way without guard Sherron Wilkerson, who broke his leg in the second half. 
"I don't know if this is a big­ger thrill than last year. We've got a good team," said guard Damon Bailey, who has endured a pulled abdominal muscle for several weeks. 
"We feel like we can play with any team, but acouple of games we didn't show up. We can't do that and expect to win," Bailey said. 
Chaney didn't make it 11 minutes into the game before being tagged with a technical foul. 
He maintained his compo­sure the rest of the way, how­ever, even as Indiana began to pull away. 
Knight, meanwhile, sat on the bench for much of the game and rarely raised his voice. 
Indiana was clinging to a 53­30 lead before Leary hit a 3­pointer with 4:29 to go. After a basket by McKie, Alan HendersOn ·made two free throws and Leary followed with a layup to make it 60-52 with 2:31left. 
Monday March 21,1994 
"Prospects for Employment Mter Law School" 
Judy Laura·
&
Fox Curliss 
(NDLaw'93) (NDLaw'93) 

7:30p.m. Cushing Auditorium 
Sponsored by the PreLaw Society 
Eagles pull upset of UNC 
ByJOE MACENKA 
Associated Press 
lANDOVER, Md. 
Boston College's Eagles are getting good at this upset busi­ness. 
Exactly four months after pulling off the biggest shocker of the college football season, 
· the Eagles staged a repeat on the basketball floor Sunday by knocking defending champion North Carolina out of the NCAA tournament. "This is clearly the best win since I've been coaching. I can't put into words how happy I am," eighth-year coach Jim O'Brien said after BC's 75-72 East Region victory over the top-ranked and top-seeded Tar Heels. ''I'm not really that surprised. We have a great deal of confi­dence in ourselves," said Bill Curley, who scored 10 of Boston College's last 11 points. "Everybody was laughing at us, saying we didn't have a chance. But we believe in ourselves." Boston College used timely 3­point shooting and hustling work on the boards to spoil North Carolina's bid to become the winningest team in the his­tory of the NCAA tournament. Both the Tar Heels and UCLA have won 63 games in the event. It also ended North Carolina's run of 13 consecutive appear­ances in at least the region semifinals. ·"There's a lot of tears in that locker room," coach Dean Smith said. "But they're mature enough to know that there are bigger problems in this world." Ninth-seeded Boston College (22-10) will meet Indiana, a 67­58 winner over Temple, in Friday's regional semifinals in Miami. "I don't even want to hear about Indiana," said Gerrod Abram, who made six of the Eagles' 12 3-pointers and led Boston College with 21 points. "You can't even imagine how good it feels right now to know Boston College secured its first trip to the round of 16 since 1985 by holding on after the Tar Heels (28-7} had rallied from a 14-point deficit in the second half. When it was over, the Eagles' 


fans at USAir Arena stormed the court in a scene similar to the celebration in South Bend, Ind., on Nov. 20, 1993, when the Boston College football team knocked off top-ranked Notre Dame. 
"Four months exactly, huh?'; Boston College's Howard Eisley said. "Happy anniversary." 
Down 50-36 with 17:34 left, North Carolina scored nine con­secutive points to start an 18-3 run that tied it at 53 on a follow dunk by Eric Montross with 
11:01 remaining. Rasheed Wallace and Jerry Stackhouse scored four points each in the run, which included an inten­tional foul call on Boston College's Danya Abrams for slamming down Derrick Phelps from behind on a fast break. Phelps lay on the floor for sev­eral minutes, after which he walked to the bench and stayed there the rest ofthe game. 
The Tar Heels tied it again at 58, 70 and 72 before Curley sank a pair of free throws to make it 74-72 with 38.1 sec­onds to go. 
North Carolina's Jeff Mcinnis missed a jumper in the lane with 21 seconds left, and Abram got the rebound. He was fouled with 17.6 seconds left and made one free throw. 
The Tar Heels called a time­out to set up a final play, which ended up being a 20-foot base­line jumper by Wallace with five seconds left. The ball took a long bounce off the rim and Eisley tracked it down with two seconds left and ran out the clock. 
"We were No. 1 in the polls," Smith said, "but that means absolutely nothing until you get away from it for about 20 years and say, 'Hey, that was a big season.'" 
Curley had 18 points and nine rebounds and Abrams had 14 points and 10 rebounds. Eisley and Malcolm Huckaby each had 11 points. 
North Carolina got 16 points and seven rebounds from Montross, 15 points from Stackhouse, 11 points from Mcinnis and 10 points and 13 rebounds from Wallace. 
------~~--------------~---~--------------­
page 18 
Fencing 
continued from page 20 
decision sealed the 9-3 win. That win put the Irish in the semi-finals against Penn where the Irish battled to an early 3-1 lead. However, two 5-4 bouts sparked Penn to a 9-5 victory, forcing the foil team to once again fence Fairleigh Dickinson for third place. Notre Dame avenged the earlier loss to the Knights by downing them 9-6 with Kalogera leading the way(3-1) by defeating Pierrette Kalter 5-3 to clinch third. 
"We are very happy with third," said women's head coach Yves Auriol. "Our girls showed a lot of heart and determination on Friday and Saturday. We defeated our big rival in a very tough Ohio State 
•r team, stopped the defending NCAA women's foil champion Temple and came back to beat Fairleigh Dickinson. We are thrilled with third place." "The foil teams' accomplish­ments have set the stage for our sabre and epee teams," commented DeCicco. "As I've said all season, this team has achieved all of its success through team efforts and not individual stars," he added. The men's team competition will take place today in sabre and in epee tommorow. 
Not only is Notre Dame in contention to win the overall team title, but the Irish can also now boast three All-American performances in the individual competitions. 
Siek finished fifth in the men's foil individual meet at the Brandeis tournament on Friday. His fifth place finish was finalized after losing a 15­13 decision to Princeton's Jadrien Steele who finshed fourth. The freshman phe­nom's performance earned him second-team All-American hon­ors, while Brunner and Power placed 17th and 24th, respec­tively. 
"I am very impressed with Jeremy's performance on Friday," said men's head coach Mike DeCicco. "To finish in fifth place and be All-American as a freshman is phenomenal. He can build on this experience for the next three years." 
''I'm pleased with how I fenced Friday," ~aid Siek. ''I'm coming back next year and I'll work even harder." 
In the men's sabre individual competition, senior captain Chris Hajnik finished 10th to claim third team All-American honors. Penn's Evan Glanz eliminated Hajnik from the competition with a 15-10 win. Other finishers for Notre Dame were freshman Bill Lester, who took 21st, and senior Bernard Baez, who finished 24th. 
The third All-American iri the bunch includes Junior Rakesh Patel who took 12th place in men's epee yesterday earning him third team All-American along with Hajnik. Seniors, epee captain Greg Wozniak, and Rian Girard ended up 13th and 24th, respectively. 
Fencing Results 
Overall Standings 
1. 
Penn State, 2625 

2. 
Notre Dame, 2600 3.Penn,2013 4. St. John's, 1839 


5. Fairleigh Dickinson, 1250 
Men's Foil Team Results 
1. 
Notre Dame 

2. 
St. John's 

3. 
Penn State 4.NYU 


Women's Foil Team Results 
1. Penn State 2.Penn 
3. Notre Dame 
4. Fairleigh Dickinson 
--~---­
The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 21, 1994 
Women roll along, win two 
By KATE CRISHAM Sports W rirer 
Like the Energizer bunny, 
they just keep going and going 
and going ... 
The 11th-ranked women's 
tennis team continued their 
winning ways this weekend, 
defeating Illinois on Thursday 
and Western Michigan on 
Sunday to improve their record 
to 13 and 3. 
The Irish are on a roll, having 
defeated six ranked teams this 
season. They overcame a slug­
gish start against a fiesty 
unranked Illinois squad, defeat­
ing the Fighting lllini 6 to 3. 
"We played real tentative 
against Illinois," admitted head 
coach Jay Louderback. "We 
played a little scared, because 
we've been so used to playing 
against ranked teams." 
"Illinois is a very tough place 
to play," he said. "They were 
pumped to play us. Our num­
ber three doubles team (of 
sophomore Holyn Lord and 
senior Terri Vitale) clinched the 
win for us." 
According to Louderback, his 
team wasn't about to be sur­
prised by Western Michigan. 
"Western Michigan had lost a . very close match to Illinois, so 
we knew they would be a tough 
team," he said. "We didn't play 
real well against Illinois, but we 
were ready for Western 
Michigan." 
The Irish didn't disappoint, 
defeating Western Michigan 
handily 8 to 1. 

In the match against Illinois, sophomore Wendy Crabtree and senior Lisa Tholen record­ed double wins. Crabtree defeated Kristi Meola 6-1, 6-3 at number one singles and Tholen defeated Jacklyn Batt 6­0, 7-6, before teaming at num­ber-one doubles to defeat Kristen Jones and Camille Baldrich 4-6, 6-4, 6-4. 
Against Western Michigan, sophomore Sherri Vitale, senior Christy Faustmann, and fresh­man Erin Gowen recorded dou­ble wins. Vitale defeated Andrea England 6-0, 7-5 at number-two singles, then joined with sophomore Mereith Siegfried to defeat England and Shannon Dean 6-1, 6-0 at num­ber-three doubles. Faustmann defeated Audrey Smith 6-2, 3-6, 6-0 at number-four singles and Gowen defeated Dean 6-0, 6-1 at number-six singles. The two lateer teamed at number-one doubles to defeat Holly Taylor and Heidi Cakaans 6-3, 3-6, 6­
1. 
Pre-Law Meeting 
March 21 -7:30pm Cushing Auditorium 
Topic: What to do after Law School. 

FlrtS are each Wfff based oo a roundtrip pur<:hasefrom Chicago. Ta><es not included and restrictions apply. can for other v.oticMoide destinations. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago,ll60610 
311-951-0515 
Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels magazine 
LAFAYETTE SOUARE 
T 0 W N H 0~ E S 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "tvhere Tenants Are The OfThe Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FoR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
. • • , .. • • • ' • • .. ~ • • ' ' • • • • • .. .. " ·" .• • -· ;r .~ -~ • • -•·· -·· .: . f •• 

SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
vVELL, LET M~ TELL Yov
jeJlillt?' ~l]®@17 ~® ~m.. l... so, Yoo sE&, FAIHER, I 
ABbVf SoM8Hi"Hn 'j.
· HU6G,W £ 'SM{)()Gij&D Wlllt 
A ~TERY vru.ArN! ~~n~~~. iR'z~~·t uoT 
I-lANK FIND OUT AB(X}T
ScANDAL/ MY P£'/IANT B£HA'.JIOR. 
BLACKMAIL! 
ANGST~ 
INTRIGtUE! 
VNBRIPLE.O SILLINESS' 

BILL WATTERSONCALVIN AND HOBBES 
l'tv\ \1'-1 1\-\f:>..T OSc, CALL 1-1\E 

"CI-{1\tv\P':, 
I 
Gus saw them when he crested the hill: snakes. Three of them, basking on the road. 
Probably diamondbacks.
3·21 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
OF INTEREST 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Crier of Greek 67 Auction actions myth 661ndian boat 
1 Wealthy person 35Wakens 69 Part of aTakes 39 Bettor's Halloweenadvantage of challenge makeup
t"The 
70 Church nook a Show fright 
Forsyte-" 
71 Endure<MWeird
13 Likeness 11 Kind of stick 
DINING HALL
45 Followed orders 
11 Sheriff Tupper 48N.Y. Police-DOWN of "Murder, She 41 Exodus priest Wrote" 
tlnformal
53 Mauna­
greetings17 Social hangout 55 Responded 2 Eastern V.I.P. 
11 Sea swallow unintelligibly 3Wind20 Home turnover sa "Last stop! 
instrument?
21 Knock out of -I" 4They'll be kilter 62 Abner's pal and hunted in April 23 Illuminated namesakes 5 Big sports news24 Terminator 63 Diamond coup 6 Loudly weep 25 Bear up there 66 Relative of the 7 "Holy moly!" 
29 Steep slope flute 
8 Kind of loser 9Beelzebub ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Change -::-r.~~~t="l 11 Watkins Glen, e.g. -'-+-+''-+'-'~t-=-1 12 "Lou Grant" star -..,.;:~~ 14 Lod airport airline 
34 Long Island 49 Visibly happy 57 Trapdoor Toke o First Aid doss with the American Red
18 Nobelist Wiesel 
town so Caribbean 59 Milky gem Cross. We'll teach you what you need to 
=+'~+=1 22 Esteem 
36 Tool storage getaway aoArm bone know to save someone you love . ..from 25 German link area 51"-has it ..." choking, bleeding or dozens of other life
61 Pueblo town 
~~~+=-+:::-1t=t 26 Kind of squad threatening emergencies. 
37 Limerick site 52 Start 64 Employee card 
Coli your chapter of the American Red
27 Lemonlike 38 Barber's cut 54 Actor Guinness and others 
Cross today. And know it oiL
28 Singer Lane sa Old lab burner 65 Still and all 
40Wane
~;.+=:r.:-r.-tillll "-'~~=-~ 30 Cuomo's 41 Bullring shout 
predecessor 
American+
42Receive
31 Son of Prince Get answers to any three clues 
-=+=+:::+.:~t:-lr:-t:::;-1 Valiant 
46 Pass by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
.dCross
~~~-t-:=:-BF--1-:-t 32 Australian 
47 Cabbage Patch 5656 (75¢ each minute).
hopper item 
LL 




Movies this Week 
To Kill A Mockingbird  Nightmare Before Christmas  
Thursday, March 24  Friday & Saturday, March 25&26  
7:30 & 10:30 pm  8 & 1 0:30pm  
Montgomery Theatre  Cushing Auditorium  
Adm. $1  Adm. $2  
STVDINT UNION lOAD  

~ ­
SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, March 21, 1994 
Fencers stand in 2nd, foilists take title 

By JOE VILLINSKI Over Friday and Saturday the make a sustained effort against The third seeded Irish foil the world. The foil team went Sports Writer women's foil team finished the powerful Irish squad. team started their run to num­1-1 on Friday, defeating mid­third in the team event paving Freshman Jeremy Siek and ber one with consecutive 5-l west rival Ohio State, but then 
March Madness spread to the the way for the men to do well junior Stan Brunner each won wins over Columbia and dropping a close decision to 
Gosman Center at Brandeis 
today. two bouts against St. John's to Michigan State. Brunner and Fairleigh Dickinson. Both 
University 

"The men's first place and bring the first national champi­junior Conor Power won two teams were tied at eight wins Sunday as the the women's third place finish onship to Notre Dame this year. bouts against the Lions, while apiece, but the Irish lost out in 
Notre Dame 
on Saturday have put us right Before mauling NYU in the Power and Siek claimed two the tie-breaker because 
men's foil 
on track for our ultimate goal of semi-finals 5-0, the Irish got bouts against the Spartans. Fairleigh Dickinson won on team won the winning the overall national past the Redmen in the round­"The men's foil team per­touches 60-53. That loss 
N C A A 
championship," said men's robin portion with a gut­formed brilliantly today," added dropped the Irish down to the 
National 
head coach Mike DeCicco. wrenching 5-4 win. St. John's DeCicco. "They showed the sixth seed to face Temple on Championship In the finals, the Irish jumped held advantages of 2-0 and 4-3 heart and guts that they have Saturday.
leaving them out to a quick 2-0 lead and then before Power kept the Irish displayed all season." There, the Irish were victori­only 25 points cruised past an emotionally­from being eliminated with a 5-As for the women's competi­ous as seniors Kim Arndt and behind Penn State for the over­drained St. John's team 5-2. 3 win over Kevin Laundry. In tion, women's foil finished Corinne Dougherty both went 
all national title with men's 
The Redmen had just defeated the rubber bout, Siek clinched third, turning in an outstanding 3-0 and Mindi Kalogera's 5-l epee and sabre still to be #1 seed Penn State in a gruel­the upset over the #2 seed with performance among some of 
fenced. 
ing 5-4 
match and could not a 5-2 win over Brian Moroney. the toughest women foilists in see FENCING I page 18 
Irish show Timing off no Inercy, 
for baseball 
By JENNY MARTEN
cruise 14-4 
Senior Sports Writer 
By TIM SHERMAN 
The Irish got plenty of hits, but not
Sports Writer enough timely ones at the College 
The plan was simple. Take advantage 
Baseball Classic this weekend. of the breaks. 
Notre Dame (5-4) outhit each of its The Notre Dame lacrosse team exe­
opponents this week­cuted this plan rather well on Saturday, 
end, but only came as they whacked the weakened Wild­
away with one win cats of New Hampshire by a 14-4 score. 
while losing to 14th­UNH arrived at Notre Dame a depleted 
ranked Washington squad. Approximately 15 Wildcats 
and 12th-ranked were did not see action due to team vio­
Tennessee. lations. 
On Saturday, the The Irish showed no pity, but were a 
Irish defeated Tom Price bit disappointed, as they did not get a 
Brigham Young 7-2 as true measure of how far they have 
senior Tom Price pitched a five-hit com­come from their last outing, a loss to 
plete game. Price (2-2) who has yet to Georgetown. 
give up a walk this year struck out six and walked none in the game. "I just wish they had their complete 
"We needed someone to step up and team," said Irish goalie Ryan Jewell, 
give a little extra effort. Tom Price gave who recorded his third victory of the 
us that effort and it allowed our offense season. "It would have made it a more 
to relax a bit," said Irish coach Pat satisfying win. But it was a win 
Murphy. nonetheless." 
Sophomore Mark Mapes led the Irish The Irish wasted no time in taking 
offense with two hits including a two­charge of the game. 
run double in the first inning. Freshman An early illegal stick penalty on UNH 
Scott Sollmann and senior Matt Haas did not help their cause at all. The Irish 
each added two hits and two runs capitalized by scoring 3 quick goals 
scored to the Irish effort. during the penalty en route to a 7-1 
Notre Dame put five runs on the first period lead. 
board in the third innning as back to Irish attackers Robbie Snyder and 
back doubles by Haas and Mapes Randy Colley were instumental in the 
scored two runs and sophomore Robbie run. 
Kent singled to push Mapes across the Snyder tallied three times and added 
plate. Sophomores George Restovich five assists. Fellow senior Colley con­
and Ryan Topham also scored in the tributed his usual three goals. 
inning. 
The Obse!Ver/Eric Ruethling 
The Washington Huskies (14-2) best­
Irish attacker Randy Colley looks for the pass during Notre Dame's 14-4 victory over the 
ed the Irish 4-2 with a four-run eighthDespite scoring 14 goals, the Irish 
Wildcats of New Hampshire on Saturday. 
inning on Friday. Washington catcher Christian 
offense was actually a bit sluggish. 
"It was an ugly game,"said Snyder. have to keep doing what we have to undermannes UNH, making Jewell's job "There was 'really no flow to the game do." all that much easier. 
Shewey's two-run double off sophomore 
A.J. Jones broke the scoreless tie and
because of the amount of penalties (2 One of these things is to maintain the "It's great to have such a strong started the four-run charge. 
illegal stick penalties against UNH). We defensive intensity. defense in front of me," said Jewell. Once again, the Irish notched more
could have played a lot better." "We've been together for three years hits than their opponent with eight to
One thing the Irish have to pleased The opening period output would be and know each other pretty well." with is the fact that they seem to be all the defense would need, as the long­The cohesive unit deserves much of 
Washington's seven, but Notre Dame adjusting well to the loss of a few key sticks dominated the undermanned the credit for the early season success 
did not put a run on the board until the players to injuries. The depth of the Wildcats. of the 3-1 Irish. 
top of the ninth. In that inning, junior Craig DeSertsi doubled to drive in two
team is beginning to show. Juniors Mike Iorio, Billy Gallagher, "Defense is the strength of our team," "We can't whine about the unfortu­and Chris Bury, along with hard-work­said Snyder noted. 
runs. nate injuries," said Jewell. "We just ing midfielders basically shackled Just ask UNH. 
see BASEBALL I page 16 
.. 


