~150 YEARSi! 

t Cl I. I I t; I 
Thursday, November 3, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 44 ~NOTRE DAME·IN ~ t'"' 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT M RY' 
Expert: Fox 
eport proposes center for disabled 
By LIZ FORAN 
could have 
The creation of a Disabled 
been seen 
Persons Office would move Notre Dame from the ice age to the modern age, said Fr. Tim 
By DAVE TYLER Scully to Junior Alex Montoya 
News Editor when discussing a report con­cerning disabled students on 
Dr. Paul Olson, ari expert on campus. 
night driving, testified yester­Scully, associate provost at 
day in St. Joseph County the University, was presented 
Superior Court that a reason­with a report in September of 
ably alert driver could have this year on the difficulties 
detected pedestrians on faced by disabled people on 
Douglas Road under the condi­campus. The report, made by 
tions present when Notre then Campus Improvements 
Dame freshman Mara Fox was Commissioner Gary Girzadas 
struck and killed, on November and Montoya, who is disabled, 
13, 1993. detailed problem areas 
Olson also said that he throughout the campus. 
believed that cracks made by According to Montoya, Scully, 
the impact would have been after reviewing the report, 
quickly detected by the front­didn't feel that present campus 
seat passenger, despite the facilities would be adequate to 
heavy weather. enact the proposed changes. He The calling of Olson by the instead proposed an office that prosecution marked the begin­would serve the disabled on ning of what will be a show­campus "the same way the down between several expert Freshman Year of Studies witnesses as both lawyers serves freshman." attempt to build their cases. 
The office would be a re-Olson, a research scientist,
TheObserverStaiiPhoto 

source to disabled people on A recent report recommends establishing a Disabled Persons Office on campus. The center would aid dis­
worked at the University of 
campus for help with buildings abled students and would oversee the modernization of campus buildings to make them easily accessible .. 
Michigan's Transportationand classrooms. Among the open. "Traditional knob style Hesburgh Library, are the most were also mentioned, such as a Research Institute before retir­areas of concern detailed in the handles are virtually inaccessi-effective solution. Braille scanner and a voice ac-ing. report are door handles, water ~le to.. students with artificial ~naccessible dr!nking foun-tivated_ computer. "Both types Rita, 25, of Springfield, fountains, a Braille scan-hmbs, the report says. tams were also cited as prob-of eqmpment further a blind Virginia, is accused of killingner/voice activated computer Proposed instead is a "lever" lems in some of the older build-student's independence and the 18 year old Fox while dri­and a guide for blind students. handle, such as the ones found ings on campus, while in build-eliminate some of the timely ving drunk on Douglas Road. Problems with door handles in DeBartolo Hall, which are ings such as DeBartolo, the procedures that a lack of such The May graduate of the Notre include the handles being near-the "ideal handles for disabled fountains are easily approach-machines necessitates" the re-Dame Law--school is charged ly impossible for disabled stu-students." For doors that are able and have easy-to-press port says. ' with leaving the scene of an dents to utilize or the doors too heavy, motorized doorways, pads in front. themselves be1"ng too heavy to such as the ones found in the Resources for blind students 
~~----r---~------~----------,.-----------------.~---..---~~-------..-~------~se~e~RE~P~O~R~T~I~p~ag~e~6 seeRITAJp~e4 
Professors explore Relationships require maturity history of University ~~~~~AHMED 
In examining any type of per­

By SARA WOODEN ondary school was dropped and News Writer the real college came into be­sonal relationship there are 10 
different critera the relation­ing. 

The development of Notre Deans were appointed to the ship should meet to qualify as a 
right relationship according toDame from an old-time colleges, the Academic Council 

Catholic col­
was created, and the religious Ellen Gootblatt, in a lecture at 
Saint Mary's last night. 

lege to the character of Notre Dame was university it pursued more self-consciously As a prelude to the 10 com­is today was in academics, said Gleason. mandments of relationships, 
she discussed differences be­

the subject of Father Zahm held the first mil­Professor lion dollar fund-raising drive tween men and women. 
According to Gootblatt, the

Ph i I I i p which was used to build up the Gleason's faculty, Gleason added. most common question that she 
gets from women is: why

lecture, enti-"Notre Dame took its place in tled "Notre Gleason the great post war boom of ed­doesn't he say that he loves me 
as much as I want him to sayDame's ucation," according to Gleason. Development as a University: Father Hesburgh was president it? 

"Men speak a completely dif­

An Historical Perspective". during this fourth period of de­
ferent language then women,"

Notre Dame's development velopment which proved to be a 
she said. Women have a ten­

has occurred in five distinct time of great transition for the stages, according to Professor University. "On one hand the dency of expecting to hear what 
they exactly want to hear. SheGleason, of Notre Dame's his­Catholic revival mentality was 

said that there are many differ­

tory department. The Univer­still strong, but on the other, sity began as a combination of there were themes of self-criti­ent ways that men show affec­Only two mature individuals To illustrate this point she 
tion, but women don't exactly can have a mature relation­told a story of her own personalsecondary and college educa­cism." 
seem to comprehend in the ships, she said. People who rejection.
tion. Fewer than ten percent of The fmal stage, 1972 to to­same Her advice for don't know themselves are only Gootblatt was at a courthousethe students "took a degree" day, has been concerned with ways. 
women was to really "extract" half a person, and if one half for jury duty in New York whenduring the early years of the the problem of Catholic identi­what they can, but people can­person comes together with a "gorgeous" man walked intoUniversity, said Gleason. ty. 
not extract what they want, another half person expecting the elevator. She said she wasDuring the second period, Law School Professor John they can only take what is given to make a whole person, it attracted to him and suddenlythe "germination of the Univer­Robinson, whose lecture fol­to them. won't work because it's just heard herself asking himsity idea" took hold. The Uni­lowed Gleason's, further ad­ten two half people trying to cling whether there was any intenseversity broadened its curricu­dressed the development of Gootblatt shared her "commandments" of Meeting, on to one another, she added. chemistry going on betweenlum, and the high school and American Catholic education. 
Dating, Relating and Mating. Her second commandment them or was she mistaken.
the University gradually began There are "five great 
"Make yourself fabulous" was was about "Reaching out." The man said she was mis­to separate. Father John Zahm ambivalences" that contribute her first main point. A person "Never be afraid to tell some­taken.
played a key role, according to to today's American Catholic 
Gleason. "He wanted to make culture, said Robinson. Among should make themselves fuller, body that you like them," she The reason she said the story richer, and complete adults said. One has to make life hap­was relevant is because it did
Notre Dame a university." these are the conflict between 
The three year presidency of assimilation with American cul­before they can think seriously pen for oneself, according to not stop her from reaching out James Burns, the third period, ture, and separation from that about being in a relationship, Gootblatt. If someone is at­to other people-and the second 
tracted to somebody, the per­time it worked for her. There
"constituted a revolution", ac­culture. "The more educated according to her. A person has 
to try and understand oneself son has to be the one to reachcording to Gleason . The sec-
see HISTORY I page 4 out and tell them about it. 
first. see LECTURE I p~e 4 
._. ~·-·-·-·. 


-~~-----------­

r 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE / Thursday, November 3, 1994 
• INSIDE Cm..uMN 
Thirsty? Have 



some more pretzels 

I am writing this column because of the existence of a very grave issue on the Notre Dame campus-anissue of vast propor-Butch Cabreros tions, an issue so Assistant essential to the well-Viewpoint Editor 
being of the University .........;_______ that it can no longer be overlooked. Although the majority of us may deny it, its menacing aura still remains. Whether you like it or not, my fellow schoolmates, the truth is: Notre Dame guzzles alcohol like a Muscle car guz­zles gas. Ever since my freshman year, I have always known what conspired behind closed doors between a man and his case of Cerveza, but it wasn't until recently that I have come to real­ize the huge extent to which it occurs. I feel it my duty to pass this wisdom on to all who will listen-to open the eyes of the student body to the dangers of such a vast consumption of alcoholic beverages. So here it goes ... Reasons why Notre Dame should limit its alco­hol consumption: 
10) It's a waste of water to visit the restroom ten times an hour. 
9) Beer companies are tempting our chil­dren to be drunk shmucks. 
8) Maintenance has a limited number of wet floor signs. 
7) After a couple swigs of Vodka, even Rosanne Arnold looks good. 
6) Your mommy would want you to ... . 
5) Your daddy would want you to ... . 
4) Rosanne wouldn't want you to ... . 

3) Contrary to popular belief, Bacardi does not have much Vitamin C. 
2) Alcohol consumption discourages any potential meaningful relationship. 
1) Hangovers suck. 

The list is long and meaningful; there are many Side-effects and many of them are not to our advantage. 
I have always had anintolerance for alcohol ever ·since I was five and took a swig of my dad's Corona thereby showing my family what I had for dinner the night before. So you can see, I grew up with a negative attitude on drinking. 
A specific memory takes hold in my mind whenever I ponder the pros and cons of alco­hol consumption. I was sitting with four of my buddies playing Monopoly. All of them, except me, had been drinking, but Bob more than anyone else. It never occurred to me back then how quickly Mad Dog takes hold of the cerebro-nervous system. Within a matter of a couple of hours, Bob was lying unconscious on the tile floor amidst the regurgitated rem­nants of his bag of Cheetos. The thought still bothers me-seeing such a rme young man succumb to the temptations of drinking heavi­ly. My friends and I decided that it was our obligation to Bob and his family that we disci­pline him. So within minutes, we had gath­ered all the black markers and fingerpaints we could fmd and went about punishing Bob. I hated doing it, but peer pressure can be a strong force. 
Yet despite my firm position on this issue, I have discovered something quite unfortunate about my family. It appears that heart disease runs strong. With the heart attack of my father a year ago, my convictions were tram­pled. The doctor told us to consume alcohol on a regular basis to combat the disease. What have I been reduced to now you may ask? I take a swig of Budweiser twice a day, and you know what? I like it! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Production 
Ethan Hayward Heather Gibson Nancy Dunn Tara Grieshop Sports Accent Tom Schlidt Mary Good 
Lab Tech Bevin Kovalik Shelley Sullivan Viewpoint Graphics Michael O'Hara Tom Roland Carolyn Wilkens 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORlD AT AGLANCE 

Middle East flooding and explosion kill more than I 00 
DURUNKA, Egypt 
Interior Ministry statement said. 
Flooding caused by torrential Dozens were reported injured in rains set off an explosion and fire both the fire and flooding. today at a government-run oil depot Witnesses in Durunka, 200 miles in southern Egypt. More than 50 south of Cairo, said the flames shot people were killed and dozens 40 feet into the air. Residents were injured. Flooding collapsed a bridge crying and wailing in front of at the depot onto pipelines, causing burned-out buildings today. The an explosion that ignited petroleum petroleum depot's nine tanks all leaking from the pipes, an engineer caught on fire. They hold 15,000 at the depot told the Associated tons of petroleum for use by the Press on condition of anonymity. 1 ~~.:..:oa:.&&Lt.:~o:. Egyptian army in emergencies. Flood waters carried the burning Samih el-Saeed, governor of Assiut petroleum to the neighboring vil­province, requested help from the lage of Durunka, where flames army to put out the fire at the spread through the town of 18,000. depot. Assiut is a hotbed of Muslim At least 30 people were killed in the radicals, but it appeared the explo­fire, and another 28 in flooding AP sion was set off by natural causes. elsewhere in Assiut province, an 
Marine commits suicide 
PARRIS ISLAND, S.C. 
A Marine drill instructor climbed onto a swimming pool diving platform and put a rifle to his chin, then shot him­self to death in front of dozens of recruits. Recruits and other drill instructors had urged Sgt. Richard E. Stumpf Jr. to get down from the 5-foot platform. Stumpf, 24, of Sarasota, Fla., checked out the M-16 rifle from the recruit depot's armory before shooting himself Monday, Maj. Carol McBride said. He was given the rifle because he said he needed to clean it after using it on a firing range, McBride said. Investigators are trying to deter­mine how he got the ammunition and why he killed him­self. McBride had been a drill instructor for about 20 months. At least 59 recruits said they saw the shooting. 


Astronomers find new galaxy 
NEW YORK 

Astronomers have discovered a galaxy virtually in their own back yard, hidden behind the fuzzy streak the ancient Greeks dubbed the Milky Way. The galaxy is about 10 million light-years away in the direction of the constellation Cassiopeia, said researcher Ofer Lahav of the Institute of Astronomy at Cambridge University in England. With astronomers spending so much effort look­ing at the far reaches of the universe, "Ws kind ·Of remarkable that. still there is a big galaxy like this one . hidden just behind our own Milky Way," Lahav said. Lahav and colleagues report in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature that they detected the galaxy by its radio­wave emissions. Lahav said it contains about one-third the mass of the Milky Way galaxy, which includes Earth. 

Clinton signs Antitrust Bill 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton signed a bill Wednesday permitting federal antitrust agencies to work with their foreign counterparts to protect American consumers and busi­nesses from price-fixing and other anti-competitive prac­tices. The new law lets the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission enter into agreements with foreign agencies to exchange investigative information and evidence about companies and people in their juris­dictions. "Until now, U.S. antitrust enforcement agencies have often found vital evidence to be out of reach abroad," Clinton said in a statement. He said the new law would lower prices for American consumers and help the 



McCartney escapes injury 
Baby, you can drive my car ... care­fully. Paul McCartney, who co-wrote the 1964 Beatles hit "Drive My Car," was on his way to a recording session Wednesday when the car he was riding in collided with a truck on a country road south of London. No one was hurt, a spokesman for the musician said, but the side of McCartney's Mercedes Benz was dented. His chauf­
LONDON 

feur, John Hamel, was driving the car when the collision occurred. 

Controllers want new radios 
TOLEDO, Ohio 

A near mid-air collision at an Indiana airport helped air traffic controllers get a modern radio system for their tower. Now local controllers hope a similar near-collision last month will bring better equipment to Toledo Express Airport. William Schramm, the Toledo controllers' union president, said unreliable equipment adds stress to con­trollers' work and they do not want a disaster to occur. Radio failure at Hulman Regional Airport in Terre Haute, Ind., was blamed in. the May 1993 near-collision of a .c~mmuter plane and a small private plane. A new radio system installed five months later cost $115,000. "It's a dynamite system -state of the art," said Patrick Adams, Terre Haute local union president for the National Air Traffic Controllers Association. "We haven't had a bit of a problem with it-it's real good and reliable," he said. 

Caruso leaves "NYPD Blue" 
NEW YORK 

"NYPD Blue" fans, you can kiss David Caruso goodbye. Caruso -and his character, Detective John Kelly ­departed the precinct house of the ABC show for the last time Tuesday. Caruso left the eighth-ranked series after a salary dispute with his producers. But Kelly wasn't killed off, as some fans had feared. "That was never in our thoughts," said the show's creator, Steven Bochco. "That would be too cheesy." Instead, Kelly quit the force after being transferred to a dispatcher's desk under pressure from the Internal Affairs Bureau. The detective had been accused of shielding his ex-girlfriend during her trial for 
the murder of a mobster. Don't shed too many tears forUnited States enforce its antitrust laws against foreign Caruso, though. His next job -the movie "Jade" ­and international firms participating in the U.S. market. 
reportedly pays $2 million. 

• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 

The Accu-Weatherllll forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 3. 
Bands separate high temperature zones for the day. 
ti'".."'i. rn E;S1 [[!] 0 ~ § 1) !:J. u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

Vla"-ssodaledPrass 
VIa Associated Press GraphicsNet C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

~l..!t!t!t!t!t!;!l+!'t!•!t!t~·!·~·~·!·~·!.......~·~·!·!·~·~~-...~··!··~··!~···········;·;·-.·~·;·;·~·;•:•:•:•:•;•;•;•;•: ~-......... ··~---.-.............................................................................................................................-........_......................................._..._.... --·-----· --· .............. -----·...-·-..-· 
-1 ~ -' J ........ -. : .. :::,·._.: .:·.J' ••.. ~ 

. '' 
' ... 


---~~ --~--­
------~-----~--------­
Thursday, November 3, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Critics dispute genetic IQ theory Buildings 
The Notre Dame College ofBusiness presents 
CAREERDAY 1994 
News DepartmentWe are looking for energetic, motivated people to help cover campus news and events. We currently have openings in several positions, including: 
Associate News Editor 
Assistant News Editor 
News Copy Editor 


Business Editor 
If interested, please submit ashort personal statement noting your experience to News Editor Dave Tyler by Thursday, November 3. Call Dave at 1-5323 with any questions. 
By RICK HAMPSON 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Even as we relish the cellu­loid triumphs of Forrest Gump, IQ 75, along come a couple of social scientists with a cruel prediction: In the new America, intelligence rules -inherited intelligence. 
"Success and failure in the American economy," argue Charles Murray and Richard Herrnstein, "are increasingly a matter of the genes that people inherit." 
Their new book is "The Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life," and rarely has social science ­three pounds and 852 pages worth, including 44 tables, 93 graphs, seven appendices and 108 pages of footnotes -cre­ated such a ruckus. 
The book contends that intel­ligence, as measured by IQ tests, is largely inherited, that it largely (and increasingly) de­termines the winners and losers in our information-based economy, that it is virtually immutable after early child­hood, and that it is possessed in differing degrees by different races. 
Blacks as a group, for in­stance, lag whites by 15 points in IQ scores. a difference that Murray and Herrnstein insist cannot be explained by test bias or environmental factors such as poor education or nutrition. 
They foresee a society split into a wealthy, high-IQ "cogni­tive elite" and an impoverished low-IQ underclass. The former will be largely white, they say, the latter largely minority. 
But Murray, a conservative policy analyst, and Herrnstein, a Harvard psychologist who died recently, caution readers that "it is possible to face all the facts on ethnic and race differences in intelligence and not run screaming from the room." 
Possible but not likely, to judge from the clamor the book has provoked. The Times of London says Murray and Herrnstein have written "the year's most reviled publication" and "touched a match to America's most explosive is­sue." The Washington Times says they've driven "a rhetori­cal car bomb into the middle of the public square." 
President Clinton himself ­who has praised Murray's pre­vious work -was said to be outraged by "The Bell Curve." 
He's not alone. 
Salim Muwakkil, senior editor of In These Times magazine, summarized its message this way: "Black Americans have failure in their genes." 
Writing in the St. Petersburg, Fla., Times, Elijah Gosier re­called his own self-doubts as a fourth-grader, and warned that the book "has the potential to make people stop believing in themselves." 

The Atlanta Journal and Constitution compared Murray to what the Greeks called a "parasito," a professional flat­terer who was welcomed to the dining rooms of the rich in re­turn for lavishing praise on his hosts. 
It all recalled a Victorian dirty book scandal. And while "The Bell Curve" wasn't banned in Boston, it was panned there in a Globe editorial -a full two months before publication. 
None of which has hurt sales. 
At Shakespeare & Co., a bookshop on Manhattan's tra­ditionally liberal upper West Side, "The Bell Curve" was No. 4 in nonfiction sales and fea­tured in a window display. Ruth Liebmann, a manager, de­scribed sales as "brisk times five." 
"We're in a neighborhood with a lot of psychologists and educators, so this is the kind of 

reflect life values 
By ETHAN HAYWARD News Writer 
Architecture is a powerful way in which different genera­tions speak to one another, and its goal is to ensure that the dialogue continues, according to Paul Goldberger, an architecture critic and cultural correspondent for the New York Times. 
"Architecture is a public issue and affects public sensi­bility and public trust," stated Goldberger, who went on to explain how the design of buildings connects to larger issues, such as the character, priorities, and values an insti­tution possesses. 
Architecture has a real role in determining the quality of page 4 
Rita 
continued from page 1 
accident, as well. Fox and four friends were returning to cam­pus after being unable to get a cab at a Grape Road eatery. 
Defense attorney Charles Asher plans to call an Indiana University professor who spe­cializes in optics as a witness later this week. 
Rita's defense has maintained throughout the trial that he is innocent. Asher has asserted that the dark, rainy, foggy con­ditions limited the ability of Rita and his passengers to know that they struck anyone and prevented them from see­ing the cracked windshield of Rita's car for several minutes. 
Olson testified that his con­clusions are based on his read­ing of the accident reports, police photos, and his examina­tion of the cracked windshield of Rita's Honda Accord on Sunday. The prosecution's wit­ness also considered the white jacket Fox and jeans Fox was wearing when she was hit. 
"Under the conditions pre­sent, pedestrians could have been detected by a reasonably alert driver," Olson said. He noted that while cracks in the windshield would not have been directly visible they would have distorted light in a way that would been readily seen. The passenger in Rita's front passenger seat testified he saw nothing. 
"The driver's eye would go right to that area on a right turn," Olson testified. Rita's passengers said he made at least three right turns after the crash. A county police accident investigator took the stand and told the court that Rita's car could have struck Mara Fox without leaving the pavement: even if Fox was walking on the shoulder of Douglas road. 
Sergeant David Hoffman said the metal portion of Rita's car that extends in front and to the side of the tire could have hit her without the tires ever leav­ing the road. Investigators believe Fox was struck by the right front corner of Rita's Honda. 
Hoffman said he could not pinpoint exactly where Fox was walking along Douglas that night, but maintained that she was most likely walking off the pavement as her companions have testified. Hoffman's best estimate of the area where the victim was hit ranged from four inches on the pavement, to eighteen off on the right shoul­der. Officers found a pool of blood underneath Fox's body, two feet from the edge of the road. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 

SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book Notre Dame Football Today, reg. $49", now just $3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on NO 
football." A must for every student and an ideal gift for alllrish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 
(219)634~1740 


259-6201 

The Observer • NEWS Thursday, November 3, 1994 


Lecture 
continued from page 1 
will be rejections but you have to keep on saying how you ex­actly feel from your gut, according to her. 
"Relationships are easy," ac­cording to Gootblatts third commandment. In relationships people should not have any expectations. They should try and honor each others choices. They should learn to appreciate differences. 
Her fourth commandment was, "If the relationship is in­herently good go for it. If it's inherently bad, run for the hills." Gootblatt also said to trust ones own instinct and dec1de for themselves whether the relationship is inherently good or bad for them. 
According to Gootblatt's fifth commandment it is good to "have absolute commitment to make the relationship work as­suming that it's inherently good." If the totality of the rela­tionship is good, then one should work at the minor prob­lems to make it work. 
Asking yourself "Am I en­hanced by the relationship or diminished?," is the sixth com­mandment of relationships. People should question rela­tionships in order to see whether they are enriching or hurtful. 
Her seventh commandment was, "Do I find myself explain­ing or defending myself to my partner too often or explammg my partner to my family and friends?" Which also, accord­ing to Gootblatt, is a question left to the individual. 

Gootblatt's eighth com­mandment was, "Does my part­ner exactly see me for exactly who and what I am, rather than what he or she wants me to be, expects me to be, or tries to shape me to be?" 
" You are good enough," is Gootblatt's ninth command­ment where she encourages one to feel good about oneself. One doesn't have to be in a re­lationship if one think it's not right. One are not obliged to stay. 
Gootblatt's tenth and last commandment is simply, "Am I happy in the relationship?" 

History 
continued from page 1 
we are ... the more as­similated we are, the more in­different of Rome, the more indifferent of the clergy we are," concluded Robinson. 
Both speakers noted the changing influence of the Catholic Church in the educa­tion provided by Notre Dame. Addressing the future, Robin­son declared that "it is for us to determine what we shall be­come". 
Last night's lecture was the first in a series on the Notre Dame forum on academic life sponsored by the Faculty Sen­ate. 






NOTRE DAME 
vs. 

FLORIDA STATE 
* 
Texaco Star Classic * Weekend of Novetnber 12, 1994 
Special Rate 

$34.95 
(1 to 4 persons + tax) 
$1.00 OFF each Buffet Breakfast with this ad! 

Located 10 miles from the Citrus Bowl 300 room Hotel with Lounge, Restaurant Tennis & Volleyball Courts 
Reservations 1-800-821-0136 Phone: 407-656-3333 
11100 W. Colonial Drive • Exit 267 off Florida Turnpike West Orlando, Ocoee, Florida 34761 

Thursday, November 3, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Judge: CNN violated order 
By JOHN PACENTI 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
CNN, facing a possible $100,000 fine, says it was right to broadcast jailhouse phone conversations between former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega and his attorneys. 
U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler found the network guilty Tuesday of contempt of court for willfully violating his 1990 order against broadcast­ing the calls. He scheduled a Dec. 9 hearing to decide the fine. 
"We continue to believe we acted properly and we are re­viewing the decision to deter­mine whether to appeal," CNN spokesman Steve Haworth said. He wouldn't comment further. 
The network argued during a trial in September that it was legally entitled to broadcast the tapes, and that it had a journal­istic responsibility to show what it said was government mis­conduct for taping the calls in the first place. 
The conversations, leaked to CNN, were taped as a matter of routine by the U.S. Bureau of Prisons. Prosecutors denied having access to the calls. 
The network broadcast seg­ments of the tapes 11 times over two days, even after Ho­eveler learned of their planned broadcast and warned any use of the tapes would violate his order. 



"I am ever mindful of the im­portance of an essentially unfettered press and the man­dates of the First Amendment, but I must also be mindful of the vital importance of compli­ance with ord~rs of the court," Hoeveler said in his 37-page ruling. 
Some experts were concerned about the effect of the judge's decision on media in the court­room. 
"Any time you hold the press in contempt, it provides a chill­ing effect for free speech," said Mary Cheh, a law professor at George Washington University in Washington. 
Hoeveler lifted the gag order the month after the CNN broad­casts, deciding the content of the tapes did not violate Noriega's right to a fair trial. 
CNN had appealed Hoeveler's gag order to the U.S. Supreme Court, which decided 7-2 not to interfere in the case. "Since then, there has been an explo­sion of gag orders on the news media," said Jane Kirtley, ex­ecutive director of the Re­porters Committee for Freedom of the Press. 
If CNN decides to appeal the conviction, "it is possible that an appellate court will not just look at the particular facts of this case but attempt to articu­late a standard or a test to gov­ern when news organizations can be held in contempt," she said. 


IMAGINE YOUR IDEA ON THE BACKS OF 40,000 IRISH FANS 
PLUS FREE BOOKS FOR THE SPRING 

DESIGN THE SHIRT '95 
ENTER YOUR CHOICE OF ORIGINAL ARTWORK TO THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, 315 LaFORTUNE. 
ENTRIES MUST NOT EXCEED 12" X 15" 
LATEST CONSIDERATION DATE IS NOV. 21, 1994 
SKETCH MUST INCORPORATE A THEME 
EXAMPLES DISPLAYED IN THE EAST HALLWAY OF THE HUDDLE INCLUDE: 
-1990  NOTREDAMELANDMARKS  
-1991  150 YEARS OF EXCELLENCE  
-1992  THE TRADITION CONTINUES  

AND THE TWO MOST POPULAR EVER 
-1993 ONWARD TO VICTORY -1994 WAKE UP THE ECHOES 
-SPRING SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS PAID BY ND BOOKSTORE -ANY SELECTED ENTRY BECOMES PROPERTY OF "THE SHIRT." -APPLICANT MUST STATE IN WRITING THAT SUBMITTED ARTWORK IS THEIR OWN ORIGINAL WORK. 
Book offers evidence Thomas lied to Senate 
By RICHARD CARELLI 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
A new book on the strangest 
Supreme Court confirmation 
battle offers new but inconclu­
sive evidence to support those 
who say Justice Clarence 
Thomas lied when he denied 
talking dirty to Anita Hill. 

"Strange Justice: The Selling 
of Clarence Thomas" says a 
"preponderance of evidence 
suggests" Thomas lied under 
oath to the Senate Judiciary 
Committee. 

But authors Jane Mayer and 
Jill Abramson, Wall Street 
Journal reporters who spent 
more than two years on the 
book, also write: "Unless an 
eyewitness to these private 
events emerges, no one will 
ever know with absolute cer­
tainty whether Hill or Thomas 
-if either of them -was 
telling the whole truth." 

The authors interviewed 
many people who knew or 
worked with Thomas or Hill ­
as well as such figures as the 
proprietor of a video store who 
remembered Thomas as a reg­
ular renter of adult movies. 

The gripping confirmation hearings in 1991 made on-the­job sexual harassment a na­tional issue. Thomas adamantly -denied Hill's accusations before the committee that he made 
crudely sexual comments to her while she worked as his aide at two government agencies in the 1980s. 
In a best-selling book pub­lished last year, "The Real Anita Hill: The Untold Story," author David Brock cited gov­ernment records and numerous interviews with people who knew Hill to conclude she lied. 
Mayer and Abramson wrote a scathing review of Brock's book in The New Yorker magazine. 
"We didn't come to this with any ax to grind," Mayer said in an interview Wednesday. Abramson added: "We viewed this as a giant puzzle, and we've been able to add some significant new pieces." 
Supreme Court spokeswoman Toni House said Thomas would have no comment on the book. 
But Armstrong Williams, a close friend of Thomas, said, "The bottom line is this has nothing to do with sexual ha­rassment." 
"This is about a black man whose life and thought explodes (liberals') most sacred cows and threatens to free blacks from the liberal planta­tion. The liberal media can't get over it," Williams told The Associated Press. 
Using a phrase Thomas em­ployed during the confirmation hearings, Williams added, "The high-tech lynching continues." 

Thinking of doing ayearof service? How about doing it 

for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, November 3, 1994 
Reason for deadly crash still unknown 
\ 
By NANCY ARMOUR 
Associated Press 
ROSElAWN, Ind. 
Whatever happened to make American Eagle Flight 4184 plunge from the sky apparently happened too fast for the pilots to call for help. 
"There was no distress signal sent from the plane and no in­dication from the conversation between the tower and the air­craft that the aircraft was in any trouble," Jim Hall, chair­man of the National Transportation Safety Board, said Wednesday. 
NBC News, however, re­ported that the cockpit voice recorder indicates that alarm after alarm suddenly went off signaling an emergency on Monday's flight. Hall said infor­mation from the cockpit voice and flight recorders would be released by Thursday. 
The last thing that air traffic controllers heard from the pilot was "thank you" after he was told to remain in a holding pat­tern at 8,000 feet for 10 min­utes. The plane had been in a holding pattern at 10,000 feet for 32 minutes. 

Report 
continued from page 1 
Student guides to help walk visually disabled students to classes and a campus guide were additionally proposed. 
"The solutions detailed here are concrete and necessary measures that can be takenm­mediately and are designed to aid all current and future dis­abled students on campus," Girzadas said in the report. 
"Basically we wanted to show how different some of the older buildings were in comparison to some of the really accessible buildings such as LaFortune and DeBartolo," Montoya added. 
The proposed office is cur­rently seeking a coordinator to assist with physical adaptations needed for buildings and to help the physically challenged 
The twin-engine ATR-72, en route from Indianapolis to Chicago, dropped off radar screens a few minutes later and plunged into a northern Indiana farm field in a driving rain, killing all 68 people on board. The plane disintegrated into tiny pieces, except for a 6­to 8-foot piece of the tail. The severity of the crash is making identification of victims diffi­cult. 
"If we found a thumb, even a thumb, that's at least some­thing to start with," FBI agent Wayne Alford said. "If we had a hand, that's more to work with." 
Investigators brought the first 
remains of victims to a tempo­
rary morgue set up at a Na­
tional Guard armory, said New­
ton County Coroner Dr. David 
Dennis. Remains believed to be 
those of one the pilots were 
found, searchers said. 
Speculation on what caused 
the crash focused mi high wind 
and advisories from controllers 
about turbulence and icing. But 
the advisories are not unusual, 
said Mitch Grundman, a pilot 
for 30 years and chief flight in­
structor for Purdue University. 
wnh everyday hie, Montoya said. 
Montoya added that similar departments in the California school system have been con­tacted in the matter. "California is the most innova­tive in this area," he said. "They have entire departments, not just single offices. They can tell us what to look for in a coordinator." He also added that most other colleges and universities throughout the nation offer resource offices of some type to disabled students and faculty. 
Fr. Scully hopes to have the office open by the end of this year, although a definite time and physical location have not been named, Montoya said. 
"I'm ecstatic," he said. "This is one of the most monumental things to happen in the past ten years. This office will really benefit disabled students for years to come." 
Happy Birthday 

Aubs 
Hope you have a good day. Love, Laura, julie and Ann 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: ROSSI COREY OR BOB AT BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS 
. PAATl'U £t'tR.\' ffl'GNT!! OP£ff BAR. FROM !0:30PM-3:00AM AT THE BEST ffiGtff 'LU~S IN THE WORLD!!! 
TOURS 1-800-875-4525 

t FACULTY • UPPER ROOM SERIES "FAITH AND PROFESSIONAL LIFE" An opportunity to reflect with colleagues and spouses/guests on the integration of spiritual concerns and professional challenges and demands. TUESDAY 8 November 1994 Faculty Dining Room of the South Dining Hall Dinner at 7:00p.m.-Discussion until9:00 p.m. Speaker Carolyn M. Callahan Associate Professor of Accountancy "Trailblazing: The Value of Faith and Commitment in Academe" Reservations: Return the form received in the mail or simply call John Gerber, C.S.C. at 1-8601 or Sharon Harwell at 1-8607 by Thursdg.y, November 3. A donation of$5.00 at the door or by check made out to Campus Ministry can help defray the expenses of the dinner. Co-Sponsored by: Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns -~~-­----.  
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army fees. They even pay a flat rate for text­ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds books and supplies. You can also receive of talented students. If you qualify, an allowance of up to $1000 each these merit-based scholarships can ~-...._. school year the scholarship is in help you pay tuition and educational .....~~ effect. Find out today if you qualify ARMY ROTC THE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call • 631-6986  

Thursday, November 3, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
FREE FLU SHOTS: last chance today 
10:00 am to 6:00pm at Hesburgh Library Concourse and LaFortune 
Student Center, Dooley Room. SHORT SLEEVES AND NOTRE DAME ID REQUIRED 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1994 7:30 TO 10:30 P.M. FOR UNIVERSITY CLUB MEMBERS AND THEIR GUEST CONTESTS AND PRIZES 
SPECIAL "SHOW" SNACKS SPECIAL PRICES ON PITCHERS OF SoFT DRINKS AND DoMESTIC BEER 
... 



MAKE YOUR RESERVATIONS NOW BY CALLING 631-4678 (ND1~HOST) 
Helicopter crashes killing all passengers 
By HECTOR ZACARIAS ZAGOYA 
Associated Press 

COZUMEL, Mexico 
Authorities searched today for the bodies of three American tourists who disap­peared when a helicopter plunged into the sea, apparent­ly because of a mechanical fail­ure. Ten other Americans and the pilot were killed. 
The helicopter, carrying a pilot and 13 tourists, was one of two Bell 212s flying back to a cruise ship from Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula when it went down Tuesday afternoon in the Caribbean, police said. The other helicopter landed safely. 
Brian Wilson, a volunteer for the U.S. Consulate involved in the search, said the helicopter reported mechanical failure shortly before it plunged into the 12-mile-wide channel sepa­rating Cozumel island from the Yucatan. 
There was no evidence of a fierce storm as initially report­ed by authorities, he said. 
The bodies of the Mexican pilot and 10 of the passengers were recovered quickly by boats from a nearby naval base 


and taken to a Cozumel tower at approximately 2:30 morgue, but three passengers p.m. saying it had mechanical had not been found by today. failure. Shortly after that, the Wilson said they were pre­helicopter plummeted into the sumed dead. ocean," Wilson told The 
The helicopters, rented by a Associated Press. local travel agency, had taken He said the bodies that had the tourists on a daylong excur­been recovered were still being sion from the ship to see Mayan identified and names would be Indian ruins. released after families were 
"As they were flying back notified. Only the pilot has been from a day at the ruins, the identified so far, he said. 
INTRODUCING XSBY PACO RABANNE 
,,~OR HIM 
Jj!REE SIGNATURE T·SHIRT WITH .· PURCHASE OF .. MORE 
exciting new men's fragrance from Paco 
your purchase from thecollection, you'll 
SHOP TODAY 10 A.M.-9:30P.M. CAllTOLL-FREE 24 HOURS A DAY 1-800-528-2345 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, November 3, 1994 
Backlash against immigrants continues in US 
By SALLY BUZBEE 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
It's a classic American story of a family pulling itself up by the bootstraps from poverty into the middle class. 
Dad worked a series of back­breaking jobs before finding a better one at a car factory. He married a woman from home. Three sons grew up in the sub­urbs, going on to college as their parents retired in modest comfort. 
Except, Angel Cervantes be­lieves, families like his are un­der attack right now in the United States. Cervantes' par­ents grew up in central Mexico. And when they first came here, they came illegally. 
"The fear of a bad economy was there," their son believes. "And what the politicians did was, they found a scapegoat to blame that on. They found us." 
Immigration has always been a hot-button issue in America since the turn of the century, when cartoonists pictured Ital­ians and Slavs flooding big cities. 
Sometimes that concern ebbs. Just four years ago, Congress approved a large increase in legal immigration with little outcry. Then something hap­pens, like a recession in California, and immigration again grabs center stage. 
This time, though, the change in attitudes may be longer-last­ing and more fundamental. 
A wide consensus of politi­cians and citizens, from con­servative to liberal, now believe their nation is stretched to the limits. They are taking a harder look at immigration, especially illegal immigration, than ever before. 
"It's just that I don't think we should let so many people in, when we're struggling so much ourselves," says Martha grants from Asia, Africa and the former Soviet Union, and many African nations are strug­gling to deal with people from neighboring countries torn by war. 
And immigrants themselves have changed. In the United States, they now are more like­ly to be from Latin America and Asia than from Europe, and are less educated than before. 
Overall, the percentage of for­eign-born people living in the United States is actually lower now than 50 or even 70 years ago. But in some areas, it is much higher -California most notably, where the rate jumped from one in 11 people two decades ago to one in four now. 
Civil rights activists complain that the distinction between le­gal and illegal immigrants often is blurred, with Americans see­ing an unfamiliar face and automatically thinking illegal immigrant. 
In fact, just 13 percent of all foreign-born people living in the United States are here ille­gally, the 1990 Census esti­mated. The rest are citizens, legal residents or refugees. 
And just four of 10 of the ille­gal immigrants cross the raw, rugged border running from here down to south Texas. The rest enter legally -from Canada, Poland, Italy, the Philippines, Iran, Ireland ­and then overstay their visas. 
"Those people don't really get the attention, do they?" border activist Roberto Martinez asks wryly. "There's no big effort to go out and find them." 
Indeed, it is on illegal immi­grants who cross the U.S.-Mex­ico border that the most intense outcry has focused recently. 
California Gov. Pete Wilson has touched a nerve by arguing that the state is going broke paying billions each year to provide federally mandated schools, hospitals and prisons to illegals. 
"If the federal government ated. Illegal migrants picking · as the Urban Institute, note that "It's assuredly a problem," grapes in the San Joaquin Val­much of that tax money goes to says J. Ernesto Grijalva, who ley or washing dishes at an east the federal government, and works with the chamber of Los Angeles restaurant still pay that state and local govern­commerce here. "My complaint taxes, they say. They buy gro­ments, especially those in Cali­is that the solution to it is not ceries and pay sales tax, regis­fornia, Florida, Texas and New being discussed in any kind of ter cars and pay property tax. York, indeed spend a lot on ille­educated, rational way." 


Other research groups, such gal immigrants. 

Join the members of the Ballroom Dance Club on November 3as they learn the basics of 
For only $3.00, you and your friends uan join in the fun at the Stepan Center from 7:00 8:30 PM. 
No experience necessary. Just come ready to have a good time at this event sponsored by the Ballroom Dance Club! 
Questions? CallJoe Cavtaio at631-1763. 
Ramirez, whose husband was would just control the border as born here of second-generation it is supposed to, none of this Mexican-American parents. would be happening," Wilson 
"We can't help everybody," has said. she says. "We're getting too Echoing Wilson's arguments crowded, and it's time we real­is Proposition 187, a measure ize that." on the statewide ballot next 
Part of the backlash may be week that would deny illegal occurring because, in the last aliens schooling, welfare, non­year alone, the United States emergency health care and has faced waves of refugees other public benefits, and also and illegal immigrants from require schools and social ser­China, Mexico, Haiti and Cuba. vice agencies to report sus­
Experts note that the migra­pected illegals to federal offi­tion of people also is an issue cials. worldwide: Europe faces racial Many researchers believe backlash because of immi-Wilson's figures are exagger­
great scores ... 

----· 
I I I I 
+7.2.' I t * 
po1n s

Kaplan students get the most 
complete test preparation materials available including computer-analyzed practice tests, home-study materials, 
Classes start Nov. 6 

a training library and teachers that really care. Call Now! 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 
KAPLAN 
Fa-ee Movies! 
Student Activities presents an evening of: 
Dinosaurs 

8:00 PM The Land Before Time 
and genies, 
9:15 PM Aladdin 

dwarfs and meanies, 
10:45 PM Snow White 
virtue, vice 

12:15 AM An American Tale 
and friendly mice. 
The LaFortune Ballroom Friday, November 4tlt 
'____!___ • 

rl\~~ TOfCOI\N! 
FREE SoFT DRiNISi 


• As documented in the May 1994 Kaplan LSAT Pertorrnance Study conducted by Price Watemouse. 
··. 

~~~-~-~~----------------------­
VIEWPOINT 

Thursday, November 3, 1994 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 GeneralBoard 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayrer Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Aceent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Ediror ....................... Scorr Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Ediror ............... Eiizaberh Regan ControUer ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to aU readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer®boron.helios.nd.edu 
.I, FARRINGTON 
Test your IQ on 'The Bell Curve' 
I often wonder about IQ tests. The things are the cause of some controversy now, with the authors of the recent book The Bell Curve having decided that African-Americans are a good 15 points lower on the great chain of being than the rest of us. "Success and failure in the American economy," they have announced, "are increas­ingly a matter. of the genes that peo­pie inherit." This is being touted as hot stuff, "courageous and daring" among the conservatives and "self-serving pseudoscience" by liberals. 
comments or complaints, may be sent to my address: joshua.a.ozer­sky.1@nd.edu. Then we will have a good idea of intelligence distribution across a controlled cultural sample. That's fair, isn't it? I think so. All right, then. The questions are: 
1) For women: What I look for in a man is: a) an energetic, heavily diversified portfolio with aggressive mutual fund holdings; b) rippling "abs"; c) an ironic, creative mind, along with Herculean verbal skills and a linebacker build; d) a drug­using, longhaired Pantera fan who 

As usual, I am================= will occasion-
on the side of ally lend you the liberals. out to other The IQ tests are band mem-
Josh culturally biased hers in and unde-exchange for a 
pendable. How tank of gas,
Ozersky
can you rank everybody on a numeric scale? I remember reading, when I was a boy, about a Korean tot who could do calculus on TV at the age of four. He was a mere 210. Now, that means he was a little more than twice as smart as the average person, or three times as smart as the average Republican. And what about me? I figure myself at around 180 or 190, but that's just because I like myself so much. If I actually took the test, and had to answer how many triangles could fit in a circle, or where Jim would stand if he had to be behind Laura, and in front of Hakeem, but not next to Wang, etc., I might come out 15 points low myself. 
The only solution, I think, is to do an informal test of the Notre Dame student body, which is as homoge­neous a group as one could hope for outside of a petri dish. I am going to put six questions to my readers, whose responses, along with any but whose v e r y wretchedness attracts your masochism 
and low self-esteem. For men: What I look for in a woman is: a) big "winnebagos"; b) a willingness to date other band members, etc.; c) a hot roommate; d) a willingness to "put out."; e) all of the above. 
2) The last book I read was: a) The Bell Curve, by Charles Murray and Richard Herrnstein; b) Interview With the Vampire, by Anne Rice; c) Standing Firm, by Dan Quayle; d) In a People House, by Theodore Geisel (Dr. Seuss); e) Baywatch, a Viewer's Guide, by Alastair Mcintyre. 
3) My favorite film is: a) "When a Man Loves a Woman," starring Meg Ryan; b) "I Come in Peace," starring Dolph Lundgren; c) "Harley­Davidson and The Marlboro Man," starring Don Johnson and Mickey Rourke; d) "Reservoir Dogs," star­ring Harvey Keitel, Steve Buscemi, Tim Roth, Christopher Penn, and Michael Madsen. 
4) Of the following, which is a medical doctor (M.D.): a) Dr. Dre; 
b) 
Dr. Seuss (Theodore Geisel); c) Dr. J (Julius Erving); d) Dr. Kevorkian. 

5) 
Essay question: In 100 words or less, answer the following ques­tion posed by Professor Charles Rice of the Law School: "If 'sentience,' consciousness or self-awareness is the criterion for humanity, where does that leave the severely retard­ed infant and the vegetative octoge­narian?" Explain your answer. Extra Credit: write an essay on "vegetative octogenarians I have known" or "severely retarded infants: good places to leave them." 

6) 
Intelligence Tests are a) by morons for morons; b) a masonic conspiracy; c) by evil guys in lab coats for grant money; d) an accu­rate way of predicting social and fis­cal success; e) covered with an attractive sheen of mucus which attracts likely plankton forms, which are then ingested; 0 a valu­able addition to Catholic learning in a world sadly given over to tran­sient secular values; g) bitchin'; h) the stand-up-and-cheer social sci­ence hit of the season; i) a savage, nightmare journey into the dark heart of the American Dream; j) a kind of parasitic flatworm or acoelomate; k) scented with a faint tang of urine; l) available at fine stores everywhere; m) embalmed; 

n) 
an excellent substitute for grades; o) an illegal growth hor­mone. 


Don't forget-send your responses to joshua.a.ozersky.1@nd.edu. Results will appear in next week's column. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate stu­dent in history. 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''people want to know why I do this, why I write such gross-stuff. I like to tell them I have the heart of a small boy-and I keep it on my desk." 
-stephen King 

• DOONESB!JRY 
OKAY, Ha<£.'5 TH& SITUATION, eVeRYON&: ::oM& f?AMAGING FlUStua<EfOUN/l!Nat!&~ WHIW HO/.J513 5Aff3. Tff& t:a­ON/3/... HAS Of(f)f3Rl31?A MWIA PRIJTl£TIVE3 R£1!Clla/ S7R//<&'. 
OUR ME.SSAG£ HA? THR&& 
UeM&NTg, ()'.1!31 HeN&V/:31< !?&.Af? ?HEM. TWO, &VCN!Fff& 
HAO, 7H&Ytuf3:RE RAtfJ, UN!3U8­§TANT!A7W f?JrTA. 4N!? 7HR&l3, THI~ 15JU5T/W07H&f< A7TACI<. fROM 7H& Ueti<AL-M&PIA I 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

~------------------.-----------------------------~------~------------------~--------------------~------------~---------------­
/ 
page 10 Thursday, November 3, 1994
VIEWPOINT 

• PERSPECTIVE 
The tyranny of thinness: Preventing th-e ravages of anorexia and bulimia 
A former college classmate of mine says she's lost 1000 pounds in her life, but still weighs the same. The problem is, she regains every pound she loses. 
This woman constantly is embark­ing upon some new fad-like the rotation diet, the one-meal-a-day diet, or the liquid diet. 
Looking in the mirror fills her with shame and guilt-and drives her to stop eating. It's a desperate, endless cycle, and she never sees anything but imperfection. 
This is what I call the tyranny of thinness obsession. Feeling remorse about something as harmless as a late-night pizza break or only nib­bling a holiday meal. Cruelly criticiz­ing each imagined flaw in the mirror. Buying clothes a size too smalL Never really feeling good about one­self. 
The tyranny of thinness obsession is mainly a problem for women, created at least in part by the socialization of girls and women to be beautiful above all else. 
Studies show that about half of American women believe they need to lose weight. Often these feelings develop early-when we're still car­rying lunch boxes to school-and con­tinue for a lifetime. 
I'm not only talking about the three to four percent of women who devel­op serious eating disorders, but a much larger group: those women who constantly feel guilt and even shame about their appearance to the point of chronic dieting. These are the women who slip through the cracks ofstudies and surveys, the sta­tistically invisible millions living in denial-severely neglecting their health needs while harboring unreal­istic expectations of their bodies. 
The consequences of continuous dieting can be unhealthfuL By neglecting nutritional needs such as calcium and iron, obsessive dieters increase their risk for problems such as osteoporosis and anemia later in life. 
Continuous dieting is also as­sociated with dangerous and severe eating disorders. Anorexia nervosa, 
Donna Shalala 
a refusal to eat leading to extreme weight loss, can cause yellowing skin, dehydration, excess body hair, gas­trointestinal problems, irreversible osteoporosis-and it can be fatal. 
Bulimia, a cycle of binge eating and purging through vomiting, using laxa­tives, or exercising excessively, can damage teeth and cause stomach le­sions or tears in the esophagus. Those who use drugs to induce vomit­ing or frequent bowel movements can eventually suffer heart failure or per­manent damage to their intestines. 
·Fortunately, as public awareness increases, more people with bulimia and anorexia nervosa are seeking help from health care professionals. Research shows that early treatment improves one's changes of recovery-but it is essential to get professional treatment. 
The tyranny of thinness obsession is something that all of us can work together to prevent, especially on our college campuses. We have to shift the focus from thinness to health, from the loneliness of helpless binges to the joys of healthful eating, hang­ing out with friends, and doing well on exams. 
That means that if you see a friend eating only celery and carrots for the second dinner in a row, ask her, "Isn't there another way?" It means that if you are having a problem, seek help for yourself. It means refusing to allow cultural stereotypes about women's bodies to remain unchal­lenged, 
The roots of thinness obsession and eating disorders grow in the soil of powerful media messages to women that we must be beautiful above all, and that large women are unfemi­nine. Fortunately, women are learn­ing to reject these false messages and are striving instead to be healthy, strong, outspoken, and competent. 
It's a lot more healthful to play intramural soccer, take long walks, or become a Big Sister than to waste time worrying about the scale. Women need to feel powerful because of our minds, our health, our leader­ship, and out ability to be happy. 
Being thin and being healthy are not necessarily the same thing. We all must realize this, and free our­selves from starvation diets and lone­ly binges. 
Donna Shalala is Secretary of Health and Human Services. 


• OuR Tm:m 
Mistakes show the need for change, conversion 
What was your best mistake represent? road. We have reflected long tion showered on him. We that he had not taken care of ever? What? Best mistake, you If we did not litter our high­and hard as a community to assume he recovers and his life this gift as best as he might say. How could anyone say ways, we would not need these know what we should do in that continues as gift that it is. have. He asked forgiveness best mistake? Those two do groups. Who among us has not situation. But what about those What is unresolved for the from his body. To his followers not belong together. All your thrown a piece of paper out the robbers who beat up the man Samaritan and for us is what he proclaimed, "I have done bests are probably experiences window at some time or been on the road to Jericho? What happened to the robbers. We what is mine to do, now you which you have shared with with someone who did? We about those people who caused all are still looking for them. must do what is yours to do." others. Have you ever shared a may not have wanted to do that the pain and suffering of that Who are they among us? Do Forgiveness is the bedrock of mistake with another? Do you whole heartedly or even man? Were they making a mis­they know, you ask, what they befriending. Befriending is that think anyone knows any of your thought much about it. For take? Were their lives out of have done? Do you know what process within ourselves which, mistakes? Or are mistakes some reason we needed the control? Was there an area of you have done? lets us loosen up a stranglehold experiences to which we alone space inside the car to not have their life or a relationship that When we see a mistake, ours as well as embrace deeply our notice and relate? that paper present! was unresolved which caused or another's, we need to begin and other's lives. 
A mistake is a regular oppor­How important is it that the them to beat the man? Why again (with our ABCs). What If one is steeped in forgive­tunity for growth. It lies road crew is there to respond to would they act with such disre-we each need to do is remem­ness, of oneself and others, the between an "oops", as someone t h e gard for ber the ABCs of our journey­possibility of change occurs. once said to me, and "out of needs of the man our journey of conversion-to One such person is Le Ly control", as someone else said the one 
and for acknowledge, to befriend, to Hayslip. She initiated the East to me. A mistake is regular? w h 0 t h e m -change. Meets West Foundation to pro­That doesn't sound right. None threw selves? As adults, to think of ABCs mote an open relationship
M.J. 

of us wants to make mistakes. t h e What did could suggest childhood memo­between Vietnam and America We want to admit to them even paper? they need? ries. Perhaps as children when after the war. In her autobiog­less. Why would a mistake be What is Making we were sad or had done some­raphy, When Heaven and Earth
Griffinregular? the role mistakes is thing unkind from which we Changed Places, she reveals the 
When something that is a of the the way in needed to move on, often times dilemmas the Vietnam War has mistake occurs, we notice it, group in which we we might have been encour­caused for Vietnamese and usually. We experience it as helping reveal to aged to sing or to play. In some Americans. The recognition of part of ourselves in which we someone who has made a mis­ourselves and others our need ways we were asked to step pain caused by individuals, have not been faithful to our take? It seems that the road to change. We do not make outside of ourselves. groups and nations toward best self or we experience group accepts the fact that the them constantly, but we each Mistakes can be the street another has challenged her to someone else not being faithful paper and other etc. were make them frequently enough lights for our conversion in life identify a resolution through to his or her best self. Inside it thrown. They cannot confront for them to be a real part of our to be a Christian. They can visits and exchanges of her seems that we all do know that the person directly all the time, lives. Real enough to contend point to a few chosen spots and foundation. we are called to be our best but by their actions they can with. What does one do and illuminate the landscape in a What is a mistake? A mistake self. That is pretty common for respond in a positive way. what does the community do different way than originally is between oops and out of con­us. But could there be any They accept the mistake, recog­when a mistake has happened seen. trol. What was the last one you value in a mistake? Can any­nize it, affirm the environment to either an individual, a com­A person in love with the saw? Was it yours? thing good come from it? and formulate a positive munity or both? It can be as landscape from sea to stars, The sign of relationship in 
The road of life often takes us response to the pain of the easy as the ABCs. with all of creation, is Francis Christ is a community working in many different directions, event. They pick up the paper! The Good Samaritan prac­of Assisi. His call by God and on mistakes-everyone's. physically, intellectually, emo­Does a community have to ticed the ABCs of conversion. the process of change in life are When you or your community tionally, spiritually. Have you become involved every time At different moments we each important examples to many makes a mistake, the way to .seen those road signs where a someone makes a mistake? have been "Samaritans," "vic­believers. His love of creation continue your journey of con­group of people have made a Can a mistake ever be resolved tims" and "robbers." He is a constant celebration in his version is to acknowledge, to commitment to clear a roadway if no one else other than the encountered the "mistakes" of life. His commitment to per­befriend and to change. and keep it clean? Different mistaker is involved? Of your another on the road. In the sonal penance and sacrifice The best mistake leads to groups-schools, churches, last mistakes which one did you story the Good Samaritan were reaL The demands he conversion. Do you know your local prisons, parent groups­resolve without help? reaches out to the victim. He placed on his body were tortu­ABC's? organizations of all types have In the story of the Good deepens his conversion by his ous. On his deathbed he spoke M.J. Griffin, O.S.F., is the rec­taken on these projects of ser­Samaritan, the man reaches concern and care for the victim. to his body, this temple of the tor ofHoward Hall. Our Turn is vice. What does their work out to the one left alone on the The victim basks in the atten-Holy Spirit, and acknowledged a weekly. rotating column. 
ACC~NT 

Thursday, November 3, 1994 
• MUSIC REVIEW 
The Mighty Mighty Bosstones question the answers Joe Gittleman reveals his idea of aparty in an exclusive interview 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Critic 
I first heard of The Mighty Mighty Bosstones on some com­mercial about five years ago; it was probably for beer. Anyway, they were playing in some club and the atmosphere was absolutely amazing. People were -jumping around, dancing everywhere, shouting, and wearing a whole lot of plaid. 
I remember being attracted to the sound and vibe that they were emitting through the cath­ode rays of my tube, but its excitement was so foreign to me that I concluded they could not be a real band-must have been hired to act for the com­mercial. 
I discovered just how wrong I was a couple years later when I noticed they had released their second album and continued to tour non-stop. These days they have a new album out, their fourth, and they are on an American tour. Yesterday, in a phone conversation with Joe Gittleman ("the bass fiddle­man"), he and I talked about touring, Notre Dame, MTV, and a host of other "Bosstonian" topics. 
I have never been to a Bosstone show-
So you're a B.osstone virgin. 
Yeah, I guess you could call it that. How would you describe the experience of a Mighty Mighty Bosstone show? 
You really can't, there's just too much going on. I'd encour­age anyone to come to our shows because everyone seems to have such a good time. I wouldn't want to try to describe it and possibly alienate you or someone else from coming when I know they'd have a really good time. 

How has the approach to this tour with Voodoo Glowskulls and Total Chaos been different? 
It hasn't really. 
With you guys being the main attraction. how do you prepare for these shows? 
We've been the main band for most of our tours now, so we're used to that. I guess the most important approach is to lock our doors when we go on-stage so that the other bands won't steal all our beer. 
How did you s.elect those two opening acts? 
Those two bands are really interesting and we like them a lot. We wanted to give the fans some old school punk because 
Photo courtesy of Mercury Records 
we know that most people who come to Bosstones' shows like old school punk. Diversity is always good. 
The new album features a lot of social commentary; how did this awareness arise among the members ofthe band? 
Well, there's never a time when we just sit around and talk about what we're going to sing about on an album. Dicky writes all the lyrics. I agree that there's a lot of social com­mentary on this new one. Dicky's a big fan of Notre Dame, actually (he laughs). 
Really? I didn't know that. 
Yeah, he loves the Fighting Irish and all that s--you guys do. 
My personal favorite song on the new album is "Hell of a Hat"­
Thanks a lot. I wrote that song. 
Yeah. I love the way it's all smooth during the verses and explodes into the chorus. How did the flavor for this come to join the lyrics? 
I don't know. It just seemed cool to me. It's not too different from our normal formula with its mixture of ska and metal, but it's got a reggae and swing vibe in the background that I like. 
Question the .Answers sports what I believe to be your most diverse compilation of sound ever; to what do you attribute the variety ofmusic? 
I guess we're just getting older and wiser. 
Did having four producers on the album affect it much? 
Yeah, well that proba.bly did a lot. You know we recorded this album while touring, so it would've been hard to stay with one producer for the whole thing. 
What do you see as the future ofska music? 
It's on the upswing for sure. With The Specials back on tour and doing a great job, ska is just amazing music which is growing all the time. I think it is going to be recognized by record companies as a viable, marketable product; I love it. 
What oftoday's bands do you enjoy listening to? 
I like Green Day. F--'"-it, I admit. I watch a lot of MTV and like a lot of that crap. 
If the Bosstones were a spe­cific drink. what would they be? 
Jolt Cola 'with a splash of Jack Daniels. 


The Mighty Mighty Bosstones: 
Question the Answers 
Mercury Records 
***~ 

Unpredictability has always been one of The Mighty Mighty Bosstones' strengths, but never before has it been this relent­less. From the low bass and funky beat which open Question the Answers on "Kinder Words," to the Frank Sinatra/Mr. Hyde impression on "Hell of a Hat," to the speed metal to vaudeville jukebox metamorphosis on the 1994 version of "Dogs and Chaplains," The Bosstones prove to be most effective when they deliver the unexpected. 
One of the .overall unpre­dictable results of the new album is its lyrics about cur­rent social topics. Songs about crack, gun control. television, and blue collar apathy are combined with the songs which talk about going out and having a good time. It's definitely a pleasant surprise. 
Although most ska music spends a lot of time buried in boundaries, the Bosstones' influx of ska certainly never does. 
With Dicky Barrett's raspy and iron lung vocals, thick gui­tar rhythms, an excited and timely horn section, and the almost-uniquely uncommon changes of pace, The Mighty Mighty Bosstones make the most of their eight-man outfit. 
Acoustic Cafe displays raw campus talent 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Music fills the air and people sit at cozy round tables sipping coffee and soda as they laugh and converse, anticipating the night's entertainment. No, this isn't an artsy lounge in New York ·city or Second City Comedy Club in Chicago. Welcome to the Thursday night Acoustic Cafe at LaFortune. 
Once again Acoustic Cafe in full swing, and the Student Union Board (SUB) has includ­ed a few new twists this year. 
Acoustic Cafe will soon dis­play more raw talent not only in the form of music, but also poetry and short story readings, comedy routines. and basically whatever emerges from the Thursday night crowd. 
"We want Acoustic Cafe to consist of a variety of things so there will be a more diverse range of talent," said Amanda Digirolamo, SUB Acoustic Cafe coordinator. 
Digirolamo has tried to steer Acoustic Cafe away from the weekly headline campus band acts in order to achieve more diversity and to appear less exclusive. 
"We want people to partici­pate and not to feel like they have to be in a band, or simply perform musical talents," she added. "There is a lot of undis-ten works or favorite famous works, according to Digirolamo. 


"We would really like to see a bunch of campus creativity mesh into a fun night for every­one at Acoustic Cafe." she added. 
Contrary to popular belief. the Acoustic Cafe line-up each Thursday is not completely planned. "Absolutely anyone can sign up before each show around 8 p.m. on the board in the Huddle area, and basically anything goes," Digirolamo urged. 
"Acoustic Cafe has the poten­tial to be really good because there is a lot of talent out there," she said. "It's as good as the students want to make it." 
Acoustic Cafe begins each Thursday at <i p.m.. and runs until around Midnight. The entertainment is free and gourmet coffee is also offered on the house. 
"We have also introduced the ­classic paper table cloths on the tables so everyone can draw and doodle with crayons and markers while they listen," Digirolamo said. 
Although SUB sponsors ­Acoustic Cafe, the coordinators are open to change and improvement. If you want to help strengthen this form of free campus entertainment call the SUB office at 631-7757. 
covered talent on this campus, at Acoustic Cafe and give and people should not feel courage to all the budding intimidated." Seinfelds at Notre Dame. 
Digirolamo has worked on The committee for the annual involving Irish Accent, the cam­Sophomore Literary Festival pus comedy group. to perform will begin doing some literary readings to preview some of the authors who will appear at the festival in the spring. 
Hopefully, this will encourage more poetry readings and short story readings of student writ­



IH 
3-1 record and the No. 3 quickly as McNeill helped quarterback. 
seed in the playoffs. If the guide the Slammers to a 4-"There are not too many Off Campus offense 0-2 record and the No.1 weaknesses in her game,"continued from page 20 improves any more, then a seed in the playoffs. said Hammond. "She has warning for opposing McNeill's has been incredible quickness andweren't high enough after defenses to beware should praised for her role in help­has developed the ability tohis successful sophomore be issued heading into the ing lead Siegfried to an improvise on a broken play. 
season for Zahm, Hammond post season. undefeated season. She makes good decisions

was touted as the No.1 

In addition to starring for Whether throwing a touch­no matter what the situation 
"Player to Watch." 

Off Campus, Hammond down pass or scoring on a is."
Although it wasn't notice­

helps coach the playoff quarterback keeper, she
able from his performance bound Siegfried Slammers. has been the leader of the Siegfried has been pairedon the field, Hammond McNeill, one of the team's high powered Slammer with No.8 seed B.P. (a 3-3

admits that he felt some 

captains, is quick to point offense all year long. mark in the regular season) pressure to maintain play­out Hammond's role in Despite the appearance, in the first round of theing at a high level. 
helping Siegfried capture things have not been all playoffs. McNeill acknowl­the No. 1 seed in the play­roses and peaches for edges that the Slammers"I did feel pressure to per­offs. McNeill this season. Just will have to play with theform this season," he said. 
"He has helped out so like Hammond, she was same intensity if they are to
"I expected a lot from 

much," said McNeill. "He labeled as a "Player to advance in the post season.
myself, and it ended up knows the game so well. He Watch." The fact that she "We are a strong teambothering me and the team. 

knows where to throw at had already led Siegfried to with a lot of depth," saidIt was pretty frustrating at what times, and which play the title in 1992 only added McNeill. "But how well wetimes." 
will work at each point in to the pressure put on do in the playoffs willIn addition to playing the the game." McNeill and the Slammer depend on how well we playmost difficult position on the Whether it is his solid offense. as a team."
field, Hammond also serves fundamentals and textbook Both Hammond andas the offensive coordinator throwing motion, or his "There were definitely McNeill give a great amountfor Off Campus. This double strong understanding of the high expectations this year," of credit to their teammatesduty caused problems for game, Hammond and the 0-said McNeill. "We lost a lot for their strong seasons.

the Crime offense early in C offense strike fear into of seniors after my sopho­Both players have managedthe season. 

even the toughest defenses. more year, and last year to return to the high level of "It was difficult adjusting 
was king of a rebuilding play they were at before
to calling plays and playing "Rusty" is the word season. There was a lot · missing their entire juniorQB at the same time," said McNeill uses to describe her expected out of me, and I've years. However, the twoHammond. "Personally, I play at the beginning of the done my best to be a leader quarterbacks state thathaven't put up the numbers season. After missing her on the team." their comeback will not be athis year. The offense has a junior year to study abroad Hammond has had the complete success until theylot to prove going into the 

at Chile, she and the opportunity to coach capture a second lnterhall
playoffs." 

Slammers certainly did get McNeill this season, and he football title. 
In what Hammond calls a 

off to a sluggish start. has been impressed with Indeed, the similarities'disappointing year', he 
However, the rust wore off the talent of the senior are striking.
helped lead the Crime to a 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK  PLEASE! I need 2 student tix or  Notre Dame's Traditional Irish Band  We're Open  
NOTICES  '951 LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE.  JAMES TAYLOR TICKETS 5th ROW!!!!!  GA's to Air Force. Call Kristy at x2562  ... Seamaisin ....1st CD at the Bookstore, 2cd one by X-Mas  Early, Late, & Weekends!!! 000 TI:-\E COPY SHOP 000  
BOOK EARLY AND SAVE$$$!  call: -1240 or -1082  LaFortune Student Center  
Network Golf is a new Multi-Level  ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL  JAMES TAYLOR MAIN FLOOR  MUSICAL THEATER @ ND  Phone 631-COPY  
Marketing organization for great  FREE! SUN SPLASH TOURS1·  272-7233  Experienced director looking for  
values in golf products and sup­ 800-426·771 0  EA HOCKEY for IBM  music director for musical audition­ •• SEINFEST '9411 ••  
plies. Golfers interested in lower  1994 players with trades, etc...  FLORIDA STATE TICKETS  ing in Dec. and performing in Feb.  SUB'S Comedy Talent Show  
prices for their own supplies and  almost brand new, has all books  FOR SALE 277-1659  GOTH sponsored. Interested? Call  Starring: Taylor Mason  
people interested in the earnings  Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  and the registration form.  Cara @271-9364.  Thurs. Nov. 3 8:00  
potential of an exciting MLM oppor­ Sailing Cruise! Free brochure  best offer; call Tom at 4-1712  I NEED AF GA's  p.m.  
tunity can contact Jim or Wendel,  1 (800)359-9808  DAVE 634-1198  Learn Korean From Experienced  Lafortune Ballroom -2nd Floor  
Network Golf Independent  Teacher. Call288-9451  It'll be AWESOME!!  
Distributors. and  '93 Camero Z28, 6-speed,  WANTED: 2 AF GA's  FREE HOT WINGS!!  
N.D. Alumni. 273-9502  Are you an organizer? Like to get  pw, pdl, abs, Clarion  4-2628  OPEN AUDITIONS  
people together? Make $$$, gain  CD player, alarm, 10k miles  Carrie: Hope all is well with you and  
excellent business experience and  never seen winter. $18,000.  Need two Air Force GAs Leslie 273­ The St. Edward's Hall Players  Cheyne. I haven't seen either of  
USED BOOKS & CLIFF'S NOTES  eam free travel by marketing our  Call4-1970  9303  Are holding open auditions for their  you online. Please answer your e­ 
Pandora's Books 233-2342  Spring Break packages. Call Blue  production of Ayn Rand's  mail, or call me 612.647.6675. Mark  
ND Ave & Howard M-Sa/10-6  Iguana Tours 1-800-868-7423  I need 7 Air Force tickets or as  "NIGHT OF JANUARY 16TH"  T  
Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store  WANNA SEE A SMILIN' FACE?  many as you have. Call Dave at  Wed. and Thurs. Nov. 2nd + 3rd  
2 FRONT ROW TIX TO JAMES  x1891.  7:00 to 9:00 PM St. Ed's Chapel.  
EARN INCOME  TAYLOR AVAIL.-CALL x4910 W/  2nd floor St. Ed's  TROOP ND TRYOUTS  
HANDCRAFTED GIFTS from  HAVE FUN MARKETING  YOUR BEST OFFER.  4SALE: 2 USC GA'S I! x3373  
around the world.  ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY  OPEN AUDITIONS  Last Day to Learn the Routine:  
GLOBAL GIFTS at LaFortune  PRODUCTS, HOLIDAY GIFT  I have 2 FSU GA'SII!II Yeah baby,  THURS. NOV 3, 8-10pm  
Student Center. Nov.10& 11,  BASKETS. CALL ME TODAY,  GOOD TRANSPORTATION-'84  and I want to sell them baby, so  CHISEL-All ages show!  In 219 Rockne  
Room 108, 9am-6pm.  START MAKING MONEY  Toyota Corolla LE., $1300. Call  lookey here, call me pronto and ask  This Saturday Nov. 5, 94  FINAL TRYOUT  
TOMORROW -674-9634.  Cathi 287-0363.  for Andy at x3830 ps, my room­ in the LaForturne Ballroom  SAT. NOV 5, 2 pm  
ILOST&FOUNDI  Wantedllllndividuals and Student  TICKETS  mates need SYR datesll  9:00pm $1.00 The loft series not brought to you  In the PIT of the JACC Q's call Lisa 273-6033 or Emile X3589  
FOUND: two men's ties that acci­ Organizations to Promote SPRING  NEED AF GA'S OR STUD  from some dollar store but by  
...  dentally fell off someone's dry cleaning. They were found about  BREAK '95. Earn substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL  I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS. 272-6551  TIX X3098  WVFI and SUB!  **Top 10 ?'s asked on "The Farm••• 1. Has anyone seen John? Is he  
two weeks ago in front of Crowley.  INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­ Blow your cool  still at the Dairy Yum-Yum?  
Call X2140 for more information.  800-327-6013  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  WVFI is now louder and clearer on  2. Did you see a white mailbox?  
HOME GAMES. 272-7233.  Need Ticketslll  your radio. Tune to 640 AM for new  3 Are you on fire?  
WANTED  Anyone going to or through KY Wed., Nov. 20? 2 need ride. Will  One ticket to Orlando for sale. Call  4 Air Force GA's Call Sean at 4-0602  music!  4. Through which door would the other guard enter to get to heaven?  
help pay expenses. x2521 ask for  4-2771.  Top 10 Quotes-GEOS Field Trip  5. Bang, Bang, Bang-Who's dead?  
1 Membership ..Privileges or Just  Ann orJen.  2 Air Force GA's for Sale 235-3394  94 ·We went WILLINGLY to  6. Where's the ham from the door?  
Lou It XL shirt. $Tom X2042  It's my dad's 50th Birthday and I  ARKANSAS?  7. How much would you take for  
STUDENT TRAVEL SALES!  FOR·RENT  want to make his day. You can help mel! Sell me  NEED 2 OR 3 AF GAs. CALL DREW 232-3769  10. Is that a concretion in your  your underwear? 8. Why isn't anyone in the kitchen  
Sunchase Tours is seeking ambi­ FOUR AIR FORCE GAS  pants or are you just happy to see  with Dinah?  
tious sales reps to promote ski and  Please]???ll  me?  . 9. Who's your daddy???  
beach trips for Spring Break '951  THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  Thanks. Michelle 284-5512  IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 AIR  9. Were we in the same tent?  10. And what do they say about  
Earn cash and free trips. CAll  NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED  FORCE GA'S. CALL JOSE  8. She's receptive.  those mechanicals?  
today: 1-800 SUNCHASE.  BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  I NEED 3 AF GAs! Sam X4872  X1661.  7. I was so cold, and Buffy made  Good times, Good Friends, & Great  
NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  me so warm -she's awesome.  Campfires!!!II  
OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­ 4 SALE: 2 AF & 2 FSU GA II  1 FSU TIX for sale, Call Christina  6. What's the past tense of come?  
ACTORS ACTORS ACTORS  773-2034  3373justin  @284-5543  5. You suck-I'm never sleeping  Get Stoned!!II Get Stoned! I!!  
for the St. Ed's Hall Players'  with you again!  Get Stoned!!!! Get Stoned!!!I  
- production of Ayn Rand's  FOR RENT: NEXT TO CAMPUS­ NEED 4 GA TICKETS FOR AIR­ 2 FSU GA'S 4 SALE  4. Can't we just rest? It's a rest  Get Stoned! II! Get Stoned!!!!  
"NIGHT E>F JANUARY 16TH"  FURNISHED STUDIO APT.  FORCE GAME IN EXCHANGE  ERIC 254-0719  stop I  
Auditions are Wed. and Thurs. Nov.  AVAILABLE NOW!!! CALL DIONE  FOR CASH AND A JOB. CALL  3. No cohabitation!  Come See Oliver Stone on  
2nd and 3rd. St. Ed's Chapel  AT 273-6381/ LEAVE MESSAGE.  LARRY OR KATHY (708)495-2711.  2 FSU GA TIX FOR SALE.  2. Potatoes!  Wed. November 9 at 7:30 in Stepan  
on the 2nd floor. All are welcome.  CALL LIX W/BEST OFFER ­ 1. Let's see some action in there!  Center.  
FOR SALE  I need tickets to PHISH...any show. call X1997  284-4342.  There will be a general meeting  Tix on Sale at LaFortune, $3  
- CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING · Earn up to $2,000+/month working  Need 2 AIR FORCE GAs  FOR SALE: 2 FSU GAs 272-1365  to discuss projects for the gay, les­bian, and bisexual community  Jen: we're so proud of you! -the red-neck & the Australien  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ Spring Break Early Specials!  Please call Curtis 282-2197  tonight at 7:30. Call the 0-line for  ps : see you at the 'backertonight  
panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.)  Bahamas Party Cruise, 6 days & 12 meals $279! Panama City  For Sale: 2 FSU Tix  PERSONAL  more info. 287-6665  Jessica,  
Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ Oceanview Kitchens $129! Cancun  Call x1752  Quality Copies, Quickly! II  Good luck in Atlanta with crew!!  
ment available. No experience nec­ & Jamaica $399! Day1ona $159!  Seamaisin at the Midway Tavern, 2  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  Tara G.  
essary. For more information call 1­ Keys $2291 CocoaBeach $159! 1­ Need 2 Air Force GA's  blocks So. of Hacienda on 4th  LaFortune Student Center  
206·634-0468 ext. C55841  800-678-6386  call Pat x2213  Street...... Every Thursday  Phone 631-COPY  Who is the Phantom Puker?l?  


------~-------------------------~----------~~--------------------~--~--------~--------------.. 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
chances, but has been unlucky at times. 
"We've had chances against others," Berticelli explained. "But, as in the past, we couldn't fmish." 


Festival '9 
The Northeast Neighborhood Rejuvination Project 
Saturday, November 5th Fall Festival is a one-day service project to show Notre Dame's support for the South Bend Community. 
Students and residents will work together to beautify the Northeast Neighborhood by planting flowers and cleaning the interiors and exteriors of local homes. 
The project will be followed by a block party for all volunteers. 
If you are interested in being a part of Fall Festival '94, sign up in the dining halls, the CSC, or the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Any Questions, please call Karen DuBay at 271-8992. 
• BASEBAlL 

Dawson to retire 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
After nine knee operations and a 18 years in the major leagues, Andre Dawson said Wednesday he would like to play one more year but is ready 
. to retire ifnecessary. 
''I'm prepared to walk away from the game today if I have to and not look back," said Dawson, who met with the media at Joe Robbie Stadium to promote his book, "Hawk." "If someone's interested then I'll sit down and make a decision." 
Dawson, 40, was declared a free agent after the Boston Red Sox refused to offer him salary arbitration. 
He played just 75 games because of chronic knee pain, batting .240 with 16 home runs and 48 RBis in 292 at-bats. 

Baseball talks to resume next week 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Baseball players and owners, who have met at the bargaining table just four times since the strike began in August, proba­bly will resume talks next week in New York. 
Three sources, one from management and two on the players' side, said Wednesday that mediator W.J. Usery was prepared to bring the sides back together. 
The sources on the players' side, also speaking on the con­dition they not be identified, said they understood meetings would be held Wednesday through Friday. 
The management source, also not wishing to be identified, said he understood next Thursday was the most likely date for the resumption. Some members of the owners' bar-
MADELEVA  
Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff, CSC A Pictorial Biography by Maria Assunta W~rner, CSC Educator of Women Past President of Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana Founder of the First School ofTheology for Women in the United States Nationally Known Poet and Author 300+ pagco, soft cover-$19.,5 (lnclwft $2.50 for posla!ft and hand/in!f.) Make cbec:ks payable to: Sisters of the Holy Cross Saint Mary's • Box 71. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556  


Dawson, a Miami native and resident, is the only player other than Willie Mays to ac­cumulate 2,000 hits, 300 home runs and 300 stolen bases. 
He says he needs another op­eration on his left knee, albeit a minor one. 
"My doctor said I'm 90 years old from my thighs down," Dawson said. "I don't want to get knee surgery unless I know it's for baseball or my post­baseball days." 
Dawson has reason to be sat­isfied with a career that earned him eight All-Star berths, eight Gold Gloves, the National League MVP award in 1987 and Rookie of the Year iii 1977. 
"My career for the most part has been fairly consistent and productive,"said Dawson, a lifetime .280 hitter with 2,700 hits and 428 homers. 
gaining committee will be at marketing meetings in Phoenix earlier next week. 
Union head Donald Fehr and management negotiator Richard Ravitch could not im­mediately be reached. 
There have been just four ne­gotiating sessions since the strike began Aug. 12 and just one since owners voted Sept. 14 to cancel the World Series. 
Usery was appointed by the 

Clinton administration as a spe­cial mediator on Oct. 14, and held a joint meeting in Washington five days later to set ground rules. 
He met twice last week with union officials in New York, then met with them again Monday. On Tuesday, he went to Milwaukee to meet with act­ing commissioner Bud Selig, and Thursday he is scheduled to meet in Washington with the owners' bargaining committee. 
1•800•SUNCHASE 
. NOBODY DOES SKI BREAKS BETTER! 
-
-
-
• 
Yet, that is in the past, and right now they have to prepare for the Musketeers. 
Earlier in the season the Irish exploded for five goals against the Musketeers. The Irish can­not go into this match thinking it will be a piece of cake. The Musketeers were without their second leading scorer Maurice Schilten. 
"They'll come in with differ­ent motivation," Berticelli ex­plained. 
"They didn't have their now top scorer. They're number one in their division and fin­ished very strong. They are a dangerous team. 
"We just have to go out and play. It's not going to be as easy as last time." 
Thursday, November 3, 1994 

page 13 The Observer • SPORTS 
Brought to you by: 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 


Thursday, November 3, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 
• NBA BASKETBAll. 
Robinson upset over "greedy" image 
Associated Press of doing things. But you just try to remain positive." 
MILWAUKEE 
The standoff has keptThe agent for Glenn 

Robinson out of camp as the Robinson, saying the Bucks prepare to open the sea­Milwaukee Bucks are portray­son Friday at Philadelphia. 

ing his client as a "greedy little 
Mike Dunleavy, the Bucks' black athlete," is angered with 
coach and vice president of 

the club for going public with 
basketball operations, said 

its contract offer. 
Wednesday the club in o wayAgent Charles Tucker initially wants to disparage Robinson. 

said neither he nor Robinson, 
"We love Glenn Robinson,"the top pick in the NBA draft, Dunleavy said. "We want Glenn 

was bothered by the Bucks' 
to play here in the worst way.

decision to hold a news confer­
We would not do anything to ence Oct. 17 to disclose their harm Glenn Robinson in any$60 million guaranteed offer. 

way.

The Bucks also said Robinson was seeking $100 million over 
"Our reason for holding the 13 years. 

press conference was that Tucker. referring to 

there was a lot of speculation Robinson, said at the time: "His about our dealings with Glenn response was, 'They gotta do that was not correct. 

what they gotta do. If they can 
"Some of the figures being get some positive public rela­
written were not correct. There tions for that, I'm not going to 
was a misconception that beingretaliate."' 

a small market we could not 

But in Wednesday's editions 
pay him. We had to address of The Milwaukee Journal, 

that question. The only way we Tucker said he and Robinson 
could do that was to let our of­

are indeed upset. 
fer and what Dr. Tucker was 

"If it was their intention for 
asking for be known." Glenn to jump up and come in and sign, it didn't work," 
Tucker said Robinson was Tucker said Wednesday from 
displeased by the resulting im­his hotel room in Merrillville, pression the public might have Ind., outside of Gary. 

.-
of him. "If they want to portray "Not saying that their intent 
Glenn as a greedy little black 
was to do that, but it was not athlete, well, I look it as a busi­

being very sensitive to how 

ness and it was something that Glenn would be portrayed to was not a very productive way society," Tucker said. 
M~©~M 

/d) URBAN PLUNGE <f_ REGISTRATION DEADLINE & MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11 CZb 
@

Registration/Information Available At: [JUiJ ND: Center for Social Concerns Campus Ministry: Badin Hall/ Hesburgh Library
... 
Dorm Representatives 

SMC: Multicultural Office Campus Ministry Justice Education 
H C: Office 
What is the Urban Plunge??? 
-
_program avai£a6u to a££ 'Jo{JJ/S!MC/J{C stutftnts 
-48 fwur imtrursion into inner·city Cife 
-1st week, in January {3ra · lOtfi.) 
-in one ofover 40 t!.ifferent cities na.tionwi.tCe 
--opportunity to el(perience conaitions ofpoverty, injustice, antf apatli.y ezyting in our cities 
-cliance to survey avaiCa.6Ce programs _ participants receive 1 'Ifieowgy cmfit 
-
Tarpley denies being in wreck 
Associated Press being expelled for drug viola­said. tions. "That's the important Club spokesman Kevin 
DALLAS 

thing. I notified Keith Grant Sullivan said the name of Dallas Mavericks center Roy (club's director of player per­Tarpley's friend wasn't re­Tarpley said he wasn't involved sonnel) as soon as I found out. leased to preserve the person's
in an accident in which his 

That's all there is to it." privacy. Tarpley said he spent
Mercedes Benz struck a utility Police confirmed the account. Friday night at a hotel. 

pole. 

"The car was discovered Both of Tarpley's knees have 
In a statement released 

about 4 a.m. after we got two been sore, and coach Dick 
Tuesday by the Mavericks, 

anonymous calls that a car had Motta said the 7 -footer proba­Tarpley said he lent his car to been wrecked," police bly will begin the season on the 
an unidentified friend, who 

spokesman Ed Spencer said. injured list. He was held out of abandoned the wrecked car at "We don't know who was be­both Mavericks practices on the scene of the early Saturday hind the wheel." Saturday and an exhibition 
morning accident but later 

Police said the car slammed game Sunday against the called police. 
into a utility pole on a street Indiana Pacers. 
"I just thank God no one was near the Dallas Tollway. The Tarpley was scheduled to un­hurt," said Tarpley, reinstated 

impact apparently sent the car dergo a magnetic resonance by the NBA this season after flying for some distance, police imaging test on his left knee 


INTERVIEW SUITS & ALTERATIONS 
We offer the best quality & best service at the best price in town. We provide the best selection (Perry Ellis, Nino Cerruti, Austin Reed, Bill Blass) for $250-350. 
Hours: 

8a.m.-6p.m. CEJ ~~ f+~i!:t:ii:J
9a.m.-3p.m. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .. 
Town & Country Shopping Center, 2452 Miracle Lane, Mishawaka. ln. 
'.. 

Alliance for Catholic Education 
WINTER COMIN'? HEAD SOUTH WITH ACE! 
Be ateacher and discover: 
Professional teacher trainin[Community life Spiritual development 
Informational meetin[: 
Wednesday, November 9th, 7:00 pm in the LaFortune Ballroom. Any Uuestion8? Call Sean McGraw at 631-7052. 
page 15 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 3, 1994 
• BASKETBAll 
Academic problems lead to suspension 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

Xavier University freshmen basketball players Andre Smith and Brien Hanley have been suspended from the team in­definitely because of academic problems. 
"When they right their aca­demic ships, then they will re­turn to the fold," Xavier coach Skip Prosser said Tuesday. "The bottom line is we're here to educate the kids. They need some time to make sure they're doing the job in the classroom." 
Tom Eiser, Xavier sports in­formation director, said Wednesday night that the school was "not using the term 'suspension."' 
"Skip Prosser is giving them both time off to concentrate on academics," Eiser said. 
Hanley, a 6-foot-3 guard, is from Jeffersonville, Ind. Smith, a 6-foot-6 forward from Akron, is one of only four Xavier schol­arship players taller than 6-4 who isn't injured. 
The suspensions leave Xavier's Musketeers with nine scholarship players for prac­tice. That includes senior swingman Pete Sears, who re­turned last week after being sidelined because of arthro­scopic knee surgery. 
Junior forward Kevin Carr is expected to miss the season be­cause of a knee injury. Freshman forward Terrance Payne is still unable to practice because of a knee injury, al­though Prosser hopes to have him available in a week or two. 
With his roster shrinking, Prosser has had to add three walk-on players: Mark Smydra, a 6-foot-8 senior forwardt Dan Carp-enter, a 6-foot-5 freshman forward; and Brian rohnson, a 6-foot-1 freshman guard. 
Xavier  plays in  the  
Midwestern  Collegiate  
Conference.  


Rodman suspended for conduct 
By KELLEY SHANNON received more technical fouls disregard for the terms of his Associated Press -34-than any other player. uniform player contract and the "Dennis has to realize he's Spurs team rules," Popovich
SAN ANTONIO not going to win the battle -said. 
San Antonio Spurs forward 

fighting the NBA, fighting the Rodman hasn't commented Dennis Rodman was suspended 
officials, fighting (Popovich), publicly on the suspension. But for three games without pay 
fighting me," said Spurs coach on Tuesday, after a KSAT-TV Wednesday and could face a 
Bob Hill. crew pursued Rodman in his stiffer penalty later if his con­
The NBA consulted with the white Ford Bronco and caughtduct doesn't improve. 
Spurs in setting the length of up with him at a restaurant, he "I hope he gets the message," the suspension. sounded confident the disputeSpurs manager Gregg Popovich 
"The best way to deal with would be resolved. said. "I hope he returns to the 
Dennis is (for him) to know we "It's no big deal. We'll work it squad wanting to be a full par­
very much want him to suc­out," he told the television re­ticipant, because we do respect 
ceed, and we'd like to see him porter.what he can do. succeed in the NBA coq1plying Hill said he and Popovich with our rules," NBA commis­planned to meet with Rodman "If (after the suspension) his 
sioner David Stern said. Wednesday at Rodman's re­conduct continues the way it 
The Spurs, who have a new quest. Hill said he did not know has been, unfortunately we 
coach and general manager what Rodman wanted to dis­would probably have to look at 
this season, said they simply cuss. a more serious suspension to want Rodman to be a part of "When a player wants to talk get our message across." the team. Last season under to you, I think you have the 
The team announced former coach John Lucas, the obligation to go meet with him Rodman's suspension Tuesday, flamboyant player with the so that's what we're going to one day after he was ejected ever-changing hair color and do," Hill said. "We're trying.
from the Spurs' final exhibition 

collection of tatoos was allowed We're trying." game. Spurs officials said the to skip practices and The Spurs open their season suspension resulted from a se­
shootarounds. Friday against Golden State. ries of preseason problems with 
"This is no way is an attack Rodman also will miss the next Rodman, who led the league in on Dennis, but rather a reac­two games against New Jersey
rebounding last season but also tion to the continuous, flagrant and Utah. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 

A SHINING PEARL OF GREAT PRICE 
Yi-qun Jin Qean) was a genuinely caring person who was gentle, generous and loving. So for many members ofthe staff of Campus Ministry, it was a terribly sad privilege to join her husband GuiLin and her friends in a vigil by her deathbed during fall break. Last Friday afternoon, Jean returned to the God oflove and mercy whom she served so well during her lifetime. 
When she was born to a Christian family in Shanghai, the youngest of five children and the only girl, she was named "Shining Pearl" by her family -a term of endearment and an engaging recognition ofher parents' joyous elation at her birth. 
Her father was a University professor who was persecuted by the Communist government (and killed by them when Jean was two) and her mother was a writer. When the Cuhural Revolution came to her area in China in the mid-1970's, Jean and her family were singled out for punishment because oftheir faith and because they belonged to an intellectual elite. Jean spent three years at hard labor in a camp far from home under very difficult circumstances. She entered the university when the Cultural Revolution ended and, in 1986, came to Notre Dame to continue studies. Jean married GuiLin Yang, a doctoral student in physics, in 1988, and moved into an apartment at Notre Dame's University Village. 
For the past four years, until September, Jean served as the Campus Depression, which visited Jean on several occasions, continued to be a factot she tried to face up to, with the assistance ofmedical personnel, family and friends. In the end, it proved stronger than collective efforts to combat it. 
Jesus compares faith to a pearl of great price that a merchant aspires to acquire with a single-minded sense ofpurpose. Indeed, Matthew tells us that the man sold everything in order to purch~e the pearl. 
In the ancient world, people wanted to possess a beautiful pearl, if only for the pleasure oflooking at it often and admiring its perfection. Jesus used this story to tell us that, like the pearl, our fajth is priceless and worth whatever effort is required of us in order to possess it and to deepen it. 
For Jean, the grace ofdeep faith expressed itself in a life oftruly loving service. In Jean, we all appreciated a shining pearl ofgreat value. 
We entrust Jean to God's loving mercy, and thank God for sharing this special treasure with us. We pray that a great measure ofpeace be given to GuiLin, to Jean's mother and brothers, to the many people who mourn her loss, and to us, the staff ofCampus Ministry, who praise God for His beauty which was reflected so admirably in Jean's life. 
Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
THIRTY-SECOND SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Minister in the Village, serving 132 families from over 25 countries and 
Weekend Presiders at
their 150 children. The job description for this position was originally to assist with-liturgies. Today it is a full-time ministry which includes 
Sacred Heart Basilica 
Bible study, organizing activities for the children (parties at Halloween, 
Sat. Nov. 5 5:00p.m. Rev. Patrick Neary, C.S.C 
Christmas and Easter, and summer games and excursions), careful 
Sun. Nov. 6 10:00 a.m. Rev. Joseph Crowley, C.S.C.
attention to new families and to newborn members ofthe Village, 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C 
providing information about social and economic resources available to people living on a graduate· stipend, teaching English as a second language, hosting daily "time out" periods for harried mothers, and editing a monthly newsletter among many other activities. 
Jean gave herself fully to all th~e endeavors. She expanded the scope of her ministry a~d simply loved her work. She always had time for people, and worried more about other people and their concerns than 
about her own. 

Thursday, November 3, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 16 
• COLLEGE SPORTS 
Arkansas guilty of Nelson finally gets a true federal drug charges center, Owens for Seikaly 
Associated Press 
FORT SMITH, Ark. 
Two University of Arkansas athletic 
trainers will plead guilty to federal 
drug charges and the athletic depart­
ment will pay a $100,000 penalty to 
close a probe into the illegal distribu­
tion of pain-killers. 
Prosecutors said Wednesday that .head trainer Dean Weber and trainer 
David England will plead guilty to one 
misdemeanor count each of refusing 
to make and keep records of how the 
university's athletic department han­
dled federally controlled drugs. 
Student trainers distributed drugs 
such as Darvocet-N100 and Tylenol 
with codeine without proper prescrip­
tions, labeling or instructions. For a 
time, the drugs were kept in an un­
locked cabinet in a trailer near the 
football field. 
"The investigation also revealed 
that athletes exchanged controlled 
substances among each other and 
went to either of the trainers when 
they needed pain medication," the 
U.S. attorney's office said in a state­ment. 
In addition to the federal penalties against Weber, the university will cut his salary by $5,000 and prohibit his outside work for a doctor who also was charged with a civil violation of federal drug policy. 
Also, Weber and England were placed on a year's probation by the school, and Weber must pay a $5,000 civil penalty. 
They will be sentenced in federal court on the misdemeanor counts, with each facing a penalty of up to a year in jail and a $25,000 criminal fine. 
Athletic department spokesman Bill Rodgers said neither Weber nor England would comment. The men couldn't be reached by telephone. 
Prosecutors said Dr. John Park, who worked for an orthopedic clinic that helped train Arkansas athletes, will pay a $75,000 civil penalty. Prosecutors said he, too, didn't keep records of drug distribution. 
"The audit conducted by the Arkansas State Police revealed that 9,727 dosage units were unaccounted for by appropriate records," the U.S. attorney's office said. 
The Drug Enforcement Administration will prohibit Park from dispensing prescriptions for two years. 
Woody Woodell, a Fayetteville pha!­macist who sold drugs in bulk to Park, wasn't charged. Prosecutors said his pharmacy required Park to sign for the drugs in accordance with federal guidelines. 
Associated Press 
OAKlAND, Calif. 
The Golden State Warriors acquired center Rony Seikaly from the Miami Heat for forward Billy Owens and· one other player in a trade Wednesday, just two days before the opening of the NBAseason. 
At 6-foot-11 1/2, Seikaly is the type of center long sought after by Warriors coach Don Nelson, who can now move Chris Webber, a contract holdout, back to power forward. 
Seikaly said he jumped at the chance to join a team he considers a contender. 
"To say the least, I'm ecstatic about my move to Golden State," Seikaly said. ''I'm extremely, extremely happy. I couldn't ask for a better situation. I'll be with a team that has a chance to win the championship." 
The Heat also received the rights to 6-foot-6 guard Predrag Danilovic, the Warriors' second round pick in the 1992 draft. 

"While it is hard to part company with Billy Owens, one of the most versatile players I have ever coached and a wonderful person, plus Predrag Danilovic, a talented young prospect, we simply could not pass on the opportunity to acquire an established center like Rony Seikaly," Nelson said. 
Seikaly, who missed most of the preseason with ten­dinitis in his left knee, said he's participated in full practices the last two days and foresees no serious problems. 
For Owens, the timing of the trade was familiar. As a rookie, he was dealt to fhe Warriors from Sacramento on Nov. 1, 1991, the night that NBA season started. In three years with Golden State, he averaged 15 points, 7.9 rebounds and 3.5 assists per game. 
"Billy Owens is one of the most versatile players in the league," Heat part­ner Billy Cunningham said in a statement. "He's one of those special players who makes his teammates better." 
Owens will be out for about two Wf.\eks after straining his left hamstring in an exhibition game. 
Like Owens, Seikaly played at Syracuse before being the ninth player selected in the 1988 draft, the Heat's first. He has averaged 15.4 points, 10.4 rebounds and 1.4 blocks in six years with Miami. 
Danilovic currently plays for Buckler Bologna in the Italian League and "is one of the top three players in Europe," Cunningham said. 
Also Wednesday, the Heat placed guard-forward Keith Askins on the injured list with tendinitis of his left achilles and released forward-center Alec Kessler to bring the roster to 13 players. 
Kessler averaged 5.2 points and 3.6 rebounds in his three years with the Heat. 

Women's Pairings Men's Pairings November 13 Cartier The Observer/Tom Roland HAUNfED HOUSE,...... ~~~ ~~~""' ~,......,...... "'~/V'..Ar /W'... CAI<I<OLL HALL SAfU~DAY. NOV. 5 SfA~fS Af 7:00PM LfNE CUf A f 9:30PM "8EEA~Y" $2.00 OONA110N Ai 0001< ALL Pt<OCEEDS fO CHAI<ffY .._;  

~~c;syi'~t<:ili Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square ~~~~ho ie~~~~h46637 1291(219)277­ 

lmJRGICAL 
CHOIR 
Fou::CHOIR 
WoMEN's CHOIR 
COROPRIMAVIRA DE NUESTRA SEJ'lORA 
V01ru oF FAITH GosPEL ENSEMBLE 
ST. PHILOMENA PARLSH CHIIDRINS CHOIR 
Now MAcEDONIA 
M!sSIONAR.Y 
BAPTIST CHURCH 
YoUTH CHOIR 


SPEAKER: FR RICO HERNANDEZ 
NOVEMBERS, 1994 STEPAN CENTER 7PM 
Thursday, November 3, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• Cm.LEGE ftHlTBALL 

Paterno still bitter, wants playoff system 



By MICHAEL A. GIARRUSSO 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
Joe Paterno's distaste of the polls started in the late 1960s, when two straight Penn State teams went undefeated and won the Orange Bowl without being declared national cham­pions. 
It happened again in 1973, and now Paterno refuses to dis­cuss the polls until the· season is over. 
"I may obviously be affected by the fact that there have only been six or seven undefeated, untied teams at the end of the bowl season that have not been selected national champion. Three of those are Penn State teams," Paterno said. 
Paterno is a little off on the numbers. In years that The Associated Press released a poll after the bowl games, 1965 and 1968-present, 15 teams have had an unblemished record and not been ranked No. 1 by the media. 
But most of those teams were not considered legitimate title contenders because they played weak schedules. Only the three Penn State teams, Washington in 1991 and Arizona State in 1970 and 1975 were ranked in the top 10 at the end of the year. 
Arizona State played in the Western Athletic Conference and ended up in small bowl games in 1970 and 1975. The Huskies finished No. 1 in the coaches' poll in 1991, so the three Penn State teams were the only squads to go unde­feated, win a New Year's bowl and not win at least a share of the national title. 

"That's probably got some influence on why I think we ought to have a playoff," Paterno said. 
Paterno's 1968 and 1969 teams went a combined 22-0. Both teams finished second in the media poll, behind Ohio State and Texas, respectively. The coaches made Penn State third in 1968 and second in 1969 . 
The 1973 team, featuring Reisman winner John Cappelletti, finished 12-0 with another Orange Bowl victory and ended up filth in both polls. 
History could repeat itself this year, as Penn State (7-0) is No. 2 in the AP poll. Penn State is No. 1 in the USA Today-CNN coaches' poll, but by the slimmest of margins over Nebraska (9-0). which dis­placed the Nittany Lions in the AP poll after defeating previ­ously No. 2 Colorado 24-7 Saturday. 
None of Penn State's oppo­nents this season are ranked in the top 15 by the AP, and nei­ther are any of the teams that could face the Nittany Lions in the Rose Bowl. 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, November 3, 1994 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAlL • Nfl fOOTBAll 
Heisman trophy Realignment is dead, San race still undecided Francisco gets Super Bowl 1999 

By RICK WARNER 
Associated Press 
One week, it's Steve McNair. The next, it's Rashaan Salaam. A week later, it's Ki-Jana Carter and Kerry Collins being mentioned as Reisman Trophy favorites. 
With five weeks to go, the Reisman race is as wide open as any in recent memory. 
''I've never seen a year where the leader changes from week to week like this," said Reisman voter Mark Blaudschun of the Boston Globe. "Usually, by this time of year, it's down to one or two guys. But right now, you have four or five who could win it." 
At the moment, the top four candidates appear to be Salaam, Carter, McNair and Collins. 
Colorado's Salaam is leading the nation in rushing, scoring and all-purpose yards. Penn State's Carter is averaging an amazing 7. 7 yards per carry and his teammate, Collins, is on pace to shatter the NCAA record for passing efficiency. McNair, quarterback for Division 1-AA Alcorn State, has already broken NCAA career marks for passing and total yards. 
A straw poll taken by the Denver Post this week showed Salaam holding a slim lead over Carter and McNair. But most agree that the Reisman, which will be awarded Dec. 10, is still up for grabs. 
"It's like a buffet," said voter Ivan Maisel of Newsday. "There's a lot of good choices to pick from." 
If he were voting today, Maisel said he would pick Salaam. The junior is averaging 174 rushing yards per game and has scored 19 touchdowns, five more than anyone else. 
"Some people were disap­pointed by his performance against Nebraska on Saturday, but I wasn't," Maisel said. "It's a measure of how good he is that they were disappointed he only gained 134 yards." 
ESPN analyst Lee Corso is touting Carter, who ran for 137 yards and four TDs against Ohio State on Saturday. 
"He's averaging 7.7 yards per carry on the No. 1 team (in the coaches' poll)," Corso said. "I saw him gain 165 yards against Michigan with a dislocated thumb. He's the toughest, most aggressive runner in college football." 
Beano Cook, Corso's col­league at ESPN, is backing Collins in the Reisman cam­paign. Collins has a 70 percent completion percentage and a passing efficiency rating of 194.75, far above Jim McMahon's Division I-A record of176.9. 
"He doesn't make any mis­takes," Cook said, "and he led Penn State on the most impor­tant drive of the year against Michigan. If they win the na­tional championship, that will be the drive everyone remem­bers." 
Some think the two Penn State players will split the Eastern vote, which could pre­vent either from winning the Heisman. Cook disagrees. 
"In 1945, (Army teammates) Doc Blanchard and Glenn Davis finished 1-2," he said. "If they're both good enough, it doesn't matter." 
McNair has posted astound­ing numbers this season, pass­ing for 3,854 yards and 36 touchdowns, and running for 795 yards and nine TDS. He is now the all-time passing leader in I-AA and the career yardage leader for all divisions. 
However, some voters view his stats with skepticism be­cause he plays against weaker opposition. 
"You can't compare I-A with I-AA," Corso said. "It's like comparing the major leagues and minor leagues in baseball." 
Cook said McNair could win the Heisman if all the other candidates falter. 
"It's like somebody from Idaho or Montana becoming president," he said. "It's a longshot, but it could happen." 

great scores... 

-----· 
I 
I 
I 
I 
' I 

great skills ... 
Kaplan students get the most complete test preparation materials available, including computer-analyzed practice tests, home-study materials and a training library. 
Kaplan helps you focus your MCAT studies and build your confidence, so you can get a higher score. 
Classes begin November 13th Call Now! 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
ROSEMONT, Ill. 
Carolina was thrilled, Jacksonville less so. San Francisco was happy, Miami wasn't. 
By the time two days of NFL meetings ended Wednesday, Carolina was in the NFC West for next season, fellow expan­sion franchise Jacksonville was in the AFC Central and San Francisco was chosen over Miami in competition for the 1999 Super Bowl. 
"Us and Atlanta is a natural rivalry already ... and New Orleans will be good, too," Carolina owner Jerry Richardson said. "This is per­fect for us. This is where we wanted to be." 
Jacksonville owner Wayne Weaver also would have wel­comed placement into that divi­sion, but television considera­tions precluded putting the Jaguars in the NFC with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. His second choice was the AFC East, setting up an instant ri­valry with the Miami Dolphins. That became impossible when league realignment proposals failed. 

"Happy? We're pleased to have a resolution, a definite di­vision for '95," said Weaver, whose division includes Houston, Pittsburgh, Cleveland and Cincinnati. "But would the AFC Central be our preference? No. We were hoping for realignment." 
So was NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue, a strong advo­cate of divisional changes. 
When realignment didn't gain 21 of 28 "yes" votes, he simply had to slot the expansion teams into the divisions that currently have four teams, thereby creat­ing six five-team groups. 
Still, Tagliabue didn't sound disappointed. 
"We've got a 4 1/2 billion-dol­lar television contract, we've got ratings up 34 percent on NBC with the current align­ment," he said. "I'm not going to say, 'My god, if we don't re­align we won't be playing ­like baseball.' 
"I think we have a great league with a great product and some great rivalries. When you have something that's working well, you really have to make sure before you start changing something ... on a leap of faith." 
He appointed a 10-member committee to study the issue and make recommendations for the March meeting -at which owners will either affirm Wednesday's resolution for 1996 and beyond or commit to a realignment plan. 
"We will get a vote," Tagliabue said, "or have the longest meeting in the history of the league.'' 
Pittsburgh owner Dan Rooney had proposed that six teams ­Seattle, Tampa Bay, Arizona, Indianapolis, Houston and Atlanta -change divisions. But many of his colleagues balked at the loss of rivalries and, sub­sequently, possible revenues. 
"Teams were all for realign­ment," Dallas owner Jerry Jones said, "unless it ment their teams were moving.'' 
Miami, this season's Super Bowl site, was bidding for its eighth title game. The San Francisco area had the Super Bowl only once before, 1985, when it was at Stanford Stadium in Palo Alto. 
"The attractions of San Francisco are obvious," Tagliabue said. "It's a world­class city, (with) one of America's greatest down­towns." 

Financial Aid Mini-Conference s s 
s November 4, 1994 

121 Law Building 
12:15-4:30p.m. 
"How to Graduate from Law School and Be Financially Solvent"
''D"J
Suzanne Curley 
Law Access 


"How Law Schools Make 
Financial Aid Decisions"
Patricia Leonard 
Asst. Dean. ND Law 
..,... 

"Forms, Forms, and More Forms" 
Suzanne Curley 
Law Access 


"Credit/Debt Management & Repayment"Gene Pilawski 
Asst. Director, Office of Financial Aid 


"Placement Trends in the '90s: 
Can I Afford to Be In Debt?"
Kathleen Blum 
Career Services. ND Law 

Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 

K A P L A N. .....................................~~~:~:~~~~.~~~~::~:;:~.........................
.
~······ .-•••-••-..........-.....-... .,-,.-...... J,. ... & ,... • .. • • .. • • • .. • • ... .... .. • •• .. • ... .. .. • • =-.....-~ 
Thursday, November 3, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 


SO, YOU'RE. USING A BAD DEClSION-1"\AKING PROCESS FIX 
DAVE KELLETT 
BILL WATTERSON 
ITS I-IP..RO TO St. RELIG\OI..IS W~E~ CERTf>..\1'\ Pt.OI'LE ARt. N't.'IER it'IC\l-IERA\£0 B'l B0\.1':. af' l\G~i\11\NG. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
l DON'T KNOW 1-\0W ELSE WE COULD FIND THE SOURCE OF OUR PROBLEM 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Words from Caesar
1--atWork 
30 13-Down dance 4 Diesel-engine in triple meter submarine 34 Acid 9 Hindu title of 

37Suitto­

address 38 They often have 12 The "A" in twistsU.A.R. 
39 Receipts14 Bull: Prefix 40 Neighbor of15 Pole Leb. 

16 First name in 4113-Downhumor 
medium for 1713-Down 
Jean Baptiste musical form 
Lully 19 Kigali's land 
42 Reactor factor 21 Soak again 
43Amigo 22 Company 44 Baby wrigglers V.I.P.'s 
4613-Down 24 Stately dance, in 13-Down dance France 26 Americana 52 English royal 28 Carried out house 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~-:-+~-+'-'-t-=-t'!!" -=-E+=+-:-fl!l .:=+=+.:'+=-f 
'!111-::-t:=:+=i-=-t:'-1 
1~ttiliill 
~ -=+~+:,--~ 

53 Flood protection 54 Ornamental band · 5613-Down musical form 58 Faithful 62 Female deer 63--Bismol 64 Prefix with Disney 65 Snaky shape 66 Deuce toppers 67Big-­
DOWN 

1 Miss West 2Siip 3 60's service site 4 Sundance Kid's 
girlfriend ­Place 5 Manger locales 6 Literary pen name of old 7 Noisy 8 Woody Herman's"­
Autumn" 

9 Give rise to 1oJudged 11 Hot under the 
coli ar 13 Highly embellished 
style

15 Slammin' Sammy 18 Circle 

41 Made hay? 49 Marathoner 43 Prayers so Hang 45 Drain cleaner 51 Deplete 
ingredient 
55 Writer Anita 46Ciearing 
57 Inclined 47 Former 59 StrokeHouston 
hockey team 60 Yorkshire river 
48 Climbing plants 61 Long, long time 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1~900-420­

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


-· 
., 
22 Tart-tongued 
23 Stage direction 25 "-Fideles" 26 First side to vote 27 Old Chevrolet 31 "-say!" 32Lon­33 Western Indian 34 Not now 35 Baby bird? 36 Whom Reps. run against . 

-=+::+-::+=-! 20 Sch. of the 39 Moderately qutck 5656 (75¢ each minute)
Northwest 13-Down dance • 


Comedy Club With: 
... 

--~--------~-­

' 
i . 
SPORTS 

page 20 Thursday, November 3, 1994 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

MCC gives Irish new life 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT "We are stressing the littleXavier provides Sports Writer things," coach Mike Berticelli explained. "Every game can be
first challenge At the beginning of the sea­the last game. We have to son the Notre Dame men's soc­
avoid mistakes. The team that

for Irish cer team set three very impor­does will win." tant goals for themselves. Win 
Just playing a mistake free the Midwestern Collegiate game will not propel the Irish Conference tournament, get to 


to the NCAAs, they still need the NCAA tournament and 
some improvement in the of­reach the Final Four of that fense. They need someone to tournament. 
step up and take the pressureBecause the Irish have not 
off leading scorer Tim Oates

..... 
Notre Dame Xavier 
played up to the preseason ex­
and the Irish defense. Now,
• WHERE: Alumni Field 
pectations, and finished the 
with the increased intensity of
• WHEN: Today at 6:00 
season at a disappointing 8-9­
the tournament, this need is
• SERIES: Irish 10-2 
2, many feel that they have 
even greater.
• LAST GAME: Irish 5-Q 
failed to meet their goals. 

• KEY MATCH-UPS: Musketee~s forward 
"People have to step up and 

Doug Tegge and forward Maurice Schi~en 
Yet, their goals are well with­score goals," Berticelli said.

vs. the Irish defensive back four. Irish forward Tim Oates vs. Musketeer 
in reach. Though seeded low, "Teams recognize Oates as the defenseman Bryan Zeinhart 
the Irish have qualified for 
scorer, and mark him tightly." 

• OU11.00K: Irish cannot enter the match 
their conference tournament, In the last game, against Cal

over-mnfident The Musketeers were 
and with their level talent, they 

State Fullerton, Chris Dean their head coach Jack Hermans when the 
without second leading scorer Schi~en and 
have a good shot at winning it. 
stepped up and scored the ini­

Irish dominated them earlier in the season. 
By winning the tournament the 
tial goal of the game. Yet,

The Musketeer's will be looking for revenenge. 
Irish can qualify for the NCAA 
Dean is a defender, and the 
• cmtER GAMES: 
tournament, but that is for an­Irish need the midfield and the

Wise. Green Bay vs. Detroit Mercy 
other day. 
other forward to start scoring.
Alumni Reid 3:00 Butler vs. Northern Illinois 
First, the Irish are going to It's not from a lack of trying. 
Krause Reid 3:00 

have to prepare themselves for The Observer/Eric Ruethling 
The Irish offensive has had

WISC Milwaukee vs. La Salle 
tournament play, and that Kevin Adkisson and the Irish have a chance to qualify for the NCAA 
Krause Reid 6:00 

tournament as they compete in the M.C.C. tournament.
means relearning the basics. 
see SOCCER I page 13

The Observer/Tom Roland
I 
' 
' 
! •. 
I 
~ 


By MICHAEL DAY Hammond of Off Campus Sports Writer and Marce McNeill of Siegfried.The similarities are 
Hammond spent the striking. Both of these 
fall semester of last yearInterhall football players 
at Australia. Although 

are the starting quar­he was disappointed not terbacks for playoff to have been able to bound teams. Both led 
compete last season, he their teams to Interhall 
would not trade his expe­titles as sophomores riences in the "Land before missing their Down Under" for any­junior seasons to study 
thing.abroad. "I really enjoyed it In addition, both of there," said Hammond. these seniors are team 
"It was such a laid back leaders in addition to 
attitude. I learned a lot being two of the top play­
about myself and a lot ers at their position. about the world." 
They are Chris As if expectations 
see IH I page 12 


The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Hammond coaches his star quarterback McNeill. 


If I ever need a brain transplant, I want one from a sportswriter, 
Women's Basketball 
The Irish have been selected by a poll of because I'll know it's never 
coaches and media as the pre-season favorite been used. 
to win the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. 
Joe Paterno, 
Penn State football coach 

.• 










