lli150 YEARS~! 



fl. 
tt 
€ cr. R 
2
..., 
~ 
s:2 
WednPsday, September 28, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No.23 t"' 
jl NOTRE DAME·IN 56 
Tl IE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRF DAi\lE AN.D SAINT 1\lr\R'(S 
• CENTER FOR SOCIAl CONCERNS 
Seniors encouraged to explore service options 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
Associate News Editor 
A fair showcasing different volunteer programs will be held at the LaFortune Ballroom on Thursday beginning at 7 p.m. 
All students are encouraged to attend and explore different possibilities of post-graduate service, according to Mary Ann Roemer, coordinator of senior volunteer programs for the Center for Social Concerns (C.S.C.). 
More than 60 different pro­grams will be represented, in­cluding the Holy Cross Associ­ates, Jesuit Volunteers, U.S. Peace Corps, and Inner City Teaching Corps. 
"It's a great opportunity for seniors," Roemer said. "They should at least stop by and pick up some information. They can always say no if they land a spot volunteering, but they can't say yes if they don't turn in an application." 
In past years. as many as 400 students have attended the fair, Roemer said. An average of 150 students actually land spots doing some type of volun­teer work. 
The Holy Cross Associates, a program run by the Brothers of the Holy Cross, have six do­mestic volunteer programs plus an international program in Chile. 
Roemer said prior volunteer experience is not necessary to land a post-graduate volunteer job. She said the main qualifi­cation is a student's willingness to volunteer now. 
"A lot of students couldn't find the opportunity to volun­teer in the past," she said. "The fact that they want to do it now is what's important." 
The volunteer fair coincides with a National Service work­shop being held at the C.S.C. Thursday afternoon. Marty Rogers, a member of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, and Maggie Folgerty, a government liaison for the Catholic Network 
see CSC I page 6 


Wo01en's 
literature 

praised 
ByJAMIE HEISLER News Writer 
Literature produced during the Harlem Renaissance, a pe­riod of African-American cul­tural development based in New York City, was for the most part written by men, ac­cording to author Margaret Perry. There were, however, a number of women whose writ­ings have recently received at­tention for their contributions to the era. These women and their writings were the focus of Perry's lecture, entitled "Their Place in the Sun ­Women Writers in the Harlem Renaissance," given yesterday at the Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge. 
According to Perry, the Harlem Renaissance developed as a "release of restraints and fears of the past that allowed the emergen«;:e of individual 
The Observer/Michael Hungeling 
creative artists." Black writers 
Raise your hand 
began to focus their attention on racial heritage and at-
Freshman Chris Martin of Dillon Hall needs to reach for a successful catch while playing frisbee on South Quad. 
see WOMEN I page 6 


"Philadelphia" writer to speak 
By JOHN CONNORTON 
News Writer 
Academy Award-nominee Ron Nyswander, the man who wrote the script for the Oscar­winning picture "Philadelphia," will be answering questions fol­lowing a screening of the film at the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum at 7:00pm. 
"Philadelphia" was the first major-studio film to confront AIDS and homophobia, and won an Oscar for Tom Hanks for his role as a lawyer with AIDS who sues his former law firm. 
Nyswaner was brought to 
campus by the efforts of gradu­ate student John Blandford. Blandford said he thought it would be a good idea to bring Nyswaner to campus "due to the lack of a systematic AIDS awareness program here at Notre Dame," and approached various departments here at the University. 
Blandford contacted Nyswan­der through a friend, and the screenwriter enthusiastically accepted. "Apparently Ron Nyswander agreed with me that this was an opportunity to do things with a big splash here on campus in regards to AIDS awareness." 
The event, described by Blandford "as an easy sell" to administrators, is being co­sponsored by the Department of Communication and Theater, 
the Creative Writing Program, 
the Gender Studies Program, and the Institute for Scholar­ship in the Liberal Arts. 
"This school is very lucky to have him," Blandford said of Nyswander. "He doesn't do speeches very often, and he's doing this one pro-bono." 
Blandford expects the evening to be a success, al­though he echoed criticism lev­elect by many in gay community 
see WRITER I page 6 

Friends remember Gremillion's courage 
By DIANA REINHART 
News Writer 
:...;..:;.:.;.;:__:.:....:.::::::_________ 
A memorial mass for Mon­signor Joseph Gremillion, the previous director of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame's Insti­tute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, who died last month of natural causes was held last evening in the chapel of the Fischer Graduate Residences. He was 75. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh presided over a mass attended by family, friends, and col­leagues who mourned his loss, but also remembered all he ac­complished, from the Notre Dame community across the world. 
Monsignor Gremillion, origi­nally from Moreauville, La., was ordained for the Alexan­dria-Shreveport diocese on De­cember 4, 1943. Fifteen years later, he traveled to Rome to continue his education at the Gregorian University where he received a doctorate of social sciences in 1960. 
· see FUNERAL I page 6 



History, future of British-Irish tensions discussed 

By KRIST! KOLSKI 
News Writer 
In his lecture entitled "Cul­tures in Conflict" yesterday at the Hesburgh Auditorium, Pro­fessor Alisdair Macintyre ex­pounded on the history of the Irish-British conflict and the future of the social strife. 
Macintyre cited a common descent, as well as a common history as the binding force among the Protestants. He also pointed to the Protestant work ethic, contrasting to the stereo­typical belief that Catholics are "thankless, lazy, and disorga­nized." 
The Protestants felt threat­ened by DeValera, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Ire­land, who sought to create a Catholic state, and the actions of the Irish Republic Army. 
This commonality, the fear of the Catholics gaining power, and the idea of creating a "Protestant state for a Protes­tant people" led to 52 years of political dominance between 1920 and 1952. 
The Protestants "enforced hegemony over the Catholics" through "political gerryman­dering, discrimination in public housing, discrimination in em­ployment, and by crushing re­sistance though potential and actual terror." 
According to Macintyre, "if a community defines itself by its conflicts, then it would hope to continue those conflicts for fear of an indefinable future." 
By 1967, however, there was a rise in the civil rights move­ment led by the Catholics. The Civil Rights Association was moved into action by the re­newed activity of Nationalists John Hume of the Social Demo­cratic and Labor Party and Gerry Adams of the Sinn Fein. 
Since the early 1970's there has been attempts to decrease discrimination. Through in­creased pressure to allocate housing to the Catholics and pressure on employers to high­er Catholic workers, a "sizable Catholic Middle Class was becoming more prominent." 

Between the years of 1972 and 1974, Catholics had gained a large portion of the political power. There was an attempt to create a power sharing sys­tem between the Protestants and the Catholics. The Protes­tants were so against this idea that they unified and in 197 4 went on strike to end any viable chance to create a system of power sharing. 
In recent years there has been a "rise in the Catholic working class." As of 1991 male unemployment in North­ern Ireland was 20 percent, 28 percent being Catholic and 12 percent Pt:otestant. "Protestants see the employ­ment of Catholics as a great threat," said Macintyre 
In conjunction with this re­cent trend, the majority of the middle-class Protestant chil­dren are going to England to attend school. The loss of the Protestant youth also poses a 
see LECTURE I page 6 

• WORUJ AT A GLANCE 
Airlines work to fight jet lag as flyers make it complaint #I 

In pro locker rooms eastbound flights and stay-
jet lag gets more b ing awake later when flying 
than "I lost it in th west. Still others stress get-lights." ting exercise by walking 
For the globall around the cabin. Drinking 
mobile executive or plenty of water can help 
leisurely tourist, it prevent dehydration from 
take days to get o the dry cabin air. 
the exhaustion, disori Once you're suffering 
entation and gener from jet lag, there's no 
foggy-headednes proven cure other than 
brought on by flyin allowing a day or two upon through time zones. arrival to catch up. 
International ai Frustration with jet lag 
travelers rank it has created a new opportu­
with boredom as nity for travel companies to 
most frequent com offer another perk to attract 
plaint, so with nv••r<:<>>l customers. 
travel the fastest British Airways offers aro­
ing segment of the U.S matherapy in the form of 
airline industry, there' rose or lavender scented 
a market for a .JL-------------~----==.:::!!______Joils that passengers apply to 
industry of gadgets their skin. Aside from 
drugs that are supposed to help reset the body's clock. smelling sweet, the oils are thought to alleviate jet lag by 
Airlines don't always make it easy to fight jet lag. forcing a traveler's circadian rhythms-his or her body 
Doctors advise eating light and avoiding alcohol and caf-clock -back into sync. 
feine. But unless you ask for something light when you The therapy is based on a theory that some scents help 
buy your tickets, airlines typically dish up heavy meals you sleep, while others make you more active and can 
and give out free drinks in first and business class. When help you adjust to the new time schedule of your destina­
you're done eating, you might think about resting, but tion. 
there's the movie. Other airlines are trying to follow suit with their own 
Some experts also suggest trying to sleep earlier on programs, to the approval of travelers. 
Jordan renounces West Bank claims University costs double of inflation 
AMMAN, Jordan BOSTON 
Jordan renounced its religious links to the West Bank The average tuition at America's four year-year col­
Tuesday in a move apparently aimed at avoiding further leges rose 6 percent this year, twice the rate of inflation, 

conflict with the PLO, but maintained its and studies show a growing share of the money is going spiritual claim to Jerusalem. The state­toward public relations instead of teaching. Although the 
ment, read on national television, increase was twice the inflation rate, it was also the 
stressed that Jordan would continue to smallest since 1989, according to the College Board, an 
"support the Palestinians by all means association of 2,800 higher-education institutions. The 
and ways, and will not allow any side to figures were released Wednesday. According to the 
harm the deep-rooted relations between College Board, average tuition is now $11,709 at four­
the Palestinian and Jordanian people." year private schools and $2,686 at four-year public 
It said the action was taken on King schools, both 6 percent increases over last year. The cost 
Hussein's orders. Palestinian officials and West Bank of two-year private institutions rose 5 percent, to $6,511, 
Muslims welcomed the announcement. "I think it's a and two-year public colleges, 4 percent, to $1,298. When 
good step in the right direction," said Hassan Tahboub, room, board, books, supplies and transportation are 
Islamic affairs minister in the Palestinian self-rule gov­added in, the average total cost of a college education 
ernment. Relations between Jordan and the Palestine comes to $18,784 for resident students at four-year pri­
National Authority, which administers the self-rule areas vate schools and $8,990 at public schools. Separate gov­
of Jericho and the Gaza Strip, grew strained after Jordan ernment statistics also show that the proportion of money 
and Israel signed a declaration July 25 in which Israel used by colleges for instruction, libraries and mainte­
acknowledged Jordan's special role in caring for nance is shrinking, and the amount spent on public rela­
Jerusalem's Muslim sites. tions, marketing and fund-raising is increasing. 

Army to train men, women together Doctors debate effects of alcohol 
COLUMBIA, S.C. CHICAGO 
The Army tried it and top brass liked it. Now they're Get some exercise, quit smoking, skip the double 
making a co-ed combat training program for raw recruits cheeseburgers -and have a couple of beers every day? 
permanent. Women and men will train together at Fort Doctors are debating whether moderate alcohol con­
Jackson starting next month, after a successful experi­sumption should be part of the prescription for a healthy 
ment last year, spokesman Rick Fulton said Tuesday. heart in light of another study that suggests drinking can 
"All individuals will be treated the same, as soldiers, and reduce the risk of a heart attack. The new study found 
all training will be integrated except for instruction that alcohol consumption was directly linked to increased lev­
is gender unique, such as rape prevention and personal els of an enzyme, t-PA, that helps break down blood clots. 
hygiene," Fulton said. The goal is to have 120 men and Other doctors say the dangers of drinking are so grave 
120 women in each of two units. The program will be doctors should never weigh in on the side of using alcohol 
expanded in late October and November. About 40,000 as preventive medicine. Earlier studies showed that alco­
recruits receive basic training at Fort Jackson annually. hol increases the level of high-density lipoprotein choles­
terol that protects against heart disease. However, cho­
lesterol levels can be managed by exercise, diet and med­
icine, so doctors saw no reason to recommend drinking. 
• tbTIONJU. WEATHER 

The Accu-Weather"" forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 28. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 0 1994 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
Prnsure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAJN T-5TORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 28, 1994 
Atlanta 81 59 Dallas 92 72 Philadelphia70 56 Baltimore 70 54 Denver 86 49 Phoenix 99 77 Boston 68 61 Los Angeles 86 68 St. Louis 79 52 Chicago 44 44 Miami 86 76 Dixon 57 43 Columbus 66 48 Minneapolis72 45 Coldwater 98 21 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~-----­


Wednesday, September 28, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 
Catholic character discussed 

By PATRICK STONELAKE 
News Writer 

Ralph Mcinerny, chairman of the Michael Grace Medieval Studies program and author of the famous Father Dowling Mysteries, spoke yesterday on "The Catholic University and Notre Dame" at Morrissey Manor. 
He began with the question, "What do we mean by a Catholic university?" To an­swer this, he looked to the past, citing the 1932 Papal Council Ex Chordia Ecclesia, which out­lined several guidelines for the operation of a Catholic univer­sity. From Father Sorin on­ward, Mcinerny sees Catholi­cism as the "custodian of edu­cation" throughout the past. 

He summarized his time at the sity as a whole, and into the 
philosophy department over forty years, citing the changes in that department as exem­plary of changes throughout the university and the world. In the beginning, all Notre Dame students were required to take four philosophy classes. As the years went by, sensing "an inferiority complex," the department began to expand on that base, bringing in bits and pieces of the philosophical "good stuff." Soon many gifted but non-Catholic philosophers were brought in to teach these and other classes. "Eventu­ally," said Mcinerny "Catholic professors found themselves in the minority". He showed ob­vious concern that this trend had extended into the univer­

• REsmEttCE HALL Assoc!AT!DN 


New SMC dance policy ignites controversy 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
News Writer 

There was intense discussion regarding last week's an­nouncement that all students must arrive at hall dances by 10 pm in order to be admitted at last night's meeting of the Saint Mary's College Resident Hall Association (RHA). 
According to Hall Director Colette Shaw, the administra­tion-made decision was made for security reasons. Shaw stated that the decision was made to decrease the use of al­cohol prior to the dances, which will be held between nine and one o'clock. 
Other concerns involved in the decision included trans­portation of the students to and from the dance, the occurrence of date-rape, and the strain that dances place upon Resident Advisors and Hall Directors. 
Shaw did emphasize that the decision was not made "to re­strict students. It was made in support of hall councils and for security reasons." 
RHA intends to support the positions taken by the individ­ual residence halls and plan to circulate a petition to change this policy. According to Jen Cherubini, "RHA will stand be­hind the decisions of the indi­vidual halls. We want to hear what the halls have to say." 
Several members of RHA ex­pressed the view that this deci­sion was a threat to students' independence. 
In other RHA news, 

•Dalloway's, the Student Ac­tivities Board, and RHA will sponsor a Halloween party at Dalloway's, featuring a story­teller and possibly pumpkin carving. 
PRE-PROFESSIONAL SOCIETY 
1st meeting of the year: 
Wed. Sept. 28, 7 p.m. 122 Hayes-Healy 
Guest Speaker from U. of Texas All pre-meds invited. 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • il • • • • • • • • 
~ 
•
• 

Catholic community of the world. 
Mcinerny recalled that Father Hesburgh had once questioned if a Catholic univer­sity could be a real university, and questioned himself the ability of a secular university to properly function while mired in the "proliferation of rules and regulations" that the gov­ernment imposes on a state­funded school. In his view, a private institution is the only place for a truly free pursuit of knowledge of any kind. "The question shouldn't be 'can a Catholic university be a real university' ... right now the question is, can a university which is not a Catholic univer­sity be a real university." 
By JEFFREY ULBRICH 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 
American troops expanded their mission Tuesday from disarming the Haitian military to taking up posts around the Parliament building and City Hall in anticipation of Haiti's return to civilian ruie. 
The U.S. forces suffered their first fatality Tuesday. An American soldier was found shot to death at hillside man­sion being prepared for legisla­tors returning to Haiti for Wednesday's Parliament ses­sion. 
Pentagon spokesman Dennis Boxx said the soldier's death was being investigated as "an apparent suicide." He was part of the lOth Mountain Division from Fort Drum, N.Y., and his identity was not immediately released. 
Military police strung con­certina wire in front of the white colonaded Parliament building, a day before the Haitian legislative body was to begin discussing a bill authorizing amnesty for the country's top military leaders. 
The amnesty measure was part of a deal worked out Sept. 18 between the U.S. delegation led by former President Carter and Haiti's military junta. 

A soldier posted on the roof of the Parliament scanned the area with binoculars, and oth­ers took up posts at the gate. Army vehicles stood watch in 
front of the building. 

.vratfll ing, and others sat under trees in a park across the street, watching the U.S. Army activ­ity. 
At City Hall, U.S. military po­lice in armored vehicles were posted inside the compound and Army Humvees, machine guns mounted on their tops, took up guard just outside. 
Mayor Evans Paul, exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aris­tide's former campaign man­ager, is expected to come out 
of hiding and return to his 
• 

Love: Mom and Dad, Karen, Kristin and Vin 


r-g-as_t~-e-~-~l_d_~_~_or'-ro-~-~-~_f_t_~_:_ib_t~-~-1~-~--~-[~-~~-e-sa_~_~_.T_h_u_r_s_d_a_y_._u_.s_._of_fi_•-..., 
No More Mickeying Around! 



TOM'S 21!! 
:(.!';:<:=·=·:··. 
sun., sept. 25 J;i 
3:40a.m. A South Bend dent was arrested for trespa.~sing 
property.At 
11:27 a.m. A Dillon Hall resi­dent reported· the theft of radar detector and other dalism to his vehicle, was parked in the B2/C2 inglot 
-By JOSEPH FRAZIER 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 
Under camouflaged shelters on a scorching Haitian air­base, American soldiers wait­ed patiently Tuesday for Haitians to turn in anything that shoots in exchange for cash. 
Patience was required. 
Only a handful of weapons dribbled in during the first hours. But in a country where by some accounts 75 percent of the popuiation is armed, the United States sees the pro­gram as a key to stability. 
Prices ranged from $50 for a pistol to $300 for a machine gun -huge sums in a nation where the average daily wage is $1.20. But prices on the street can run up to 10 times what the Americans are offer­ing. 
The program, publicized by radio, loudspeakers and leaflets, is supposed to last three weeks, but may be ex­tended. 
A similar program in Panama after the 1989 American invasion brought in thousands of weapons, from modern military rifles to museum-piece muzzle loaders. 
"We don't know how to gauge it this early," said Capt. Andy Mazur of Youngstown, 
N.Y. "We suspect people will go back and tell their friends that there is credibility here, that we have the cash." 
"We don't ask them who they are. You have a gun that shoots, we'll buy it, no ques­tions asked. You have a gun? We'll buy it. Peace," said Pvt. Amos Brown of Honolulu, a Haitian-born Creole speaker working with the program . 
"We're getting some junk," whispered another soldier who wouldn't give his name . 
The haul in the first few hours included pistols, a World War Il-vintage M-1 Garrand rifle and a 9mm Uzi submachine gun, the soldiers said . 
Col. Barry Willey. spokesman for the American forces in Haiti, said payment may be increased if the pro­gram seems to lag. He urged that it not be judged too early. 
"We'll have to wait and see 
for the first few days," he said. 
Some Haitians questioned 
the effectiveness of the 
"Gourdes for Guns" program . 



r--pag-e4--~-~~--~~----Th-eO-bs-erv-er-•P-1\I_D_A_DVE-RT-I-SE-M-EN-T---~--W<-ed-nes-day-,S-ept-em-be-r
28-, 1-99-4 -----., 
Sunday 12:00 p.m-9:00 p.m Located just a few steps from Turtle Creek and Campus View! 
(219) 2 7 7.-JACK 1827 S. Bend Ave. • The Campus Shoppes 
:--------~-----------~---~~--------~------~----~---~­
Wednesday, September 28, 1994 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 5 



Starr's partiality questioned 
By LARRY MARGASAK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
When a Republican candidate attacked President Clinton's "personal scandals" last Aug. 25, the advisory committee on his letterhead included Kenneth Starr, the independent Whitewater counsel. 
A spokesman for Starr says it was simply a mistake, that Starr's name was to have been removed from anything "of a partisan nature" after his ap­pointment on Aug. 5. 
But critics, including Clinton's personal lawyer Robert Ben­nett, say it's another example of at least an appearance of partiality by Starr. who was formerly active in Republican politics. 
The fund-raising letter was sent by Ernie Berger, Republi­can candidate for chairman of the board of supervisors of Fairfax County, Va. -a Wash­ington suburb. 
Besides the criticism from Democrats, five past presidents of the American Bar Associa­tion recently questioned whether political considerations "may have influenced" the three-judge federal court that appointed Starr. 
Starr, a former federal appel­late judge and U.S. solicitor general, has publicly criticized Clinton's legal position that ­as president -he is immune from a sexual harassment law­suit filed by a former Arkansas state employee. Starr also has contributed to Republican can­didates and considered running for the U.S. Senate. 
Most of the Fairfax letter fo­cused on local issues, but the first page attacked Clinton and the Democratic-controlled Congress. The letter said of Clinton, "His personal scandals are so great the president of the United States has opened a legal defense fund." 
Clinton and his wife estab­lished the fund last June, to help them pay a potential $2 million in legal bills. 
Jay Lefkowitz, a law firm col­league who comments on Star­r's behalf, said including Starr's name on the Berger letter was a mistake. 
"Immediately after being ap­pointed independent counsel, Ken instructed his staff that any involvement he had, any letter­heads he was listed on, should be terminated immediately." 
"He wanted to make it very clear he would have no parti­san involvement whatsoever. There was simply some miscommunication. 

GOP pledges to cut taxes, balance budget 
By JIM DRINKARD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Tantalized by their first shot in four decades at taking con­trol of the House, Republicans today united more than 300 of their candidates behind a politically popular manifesto calling for tax cuts, term limits and a balanced budget amend­ment. 
The Republican candidates, two-thirds of them running as challengers or seeking open seats, gathered in bright sun­shine on the Capitol steps to sign a "Contract with Amer­ica." They pledged speedy ac­tion on a 10-point platform if voters give their party a House majority for the first time since 1954. 
A band of retired military musicians played as the candi­dates filed past a table draped in red, white and blue, then lined up on a stage erected for the occasion. 
''This is a first step toward renewing American civiliza­tion," said Rep. Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., the House minority whip who would become speaker if his party picks up 40 seats in November. Most observers pre­dict a GOP increase in the range of 25 seats. 
Kevin Vigilante, a doctor run­ning against Democratic state representative Patrick Kennedy in Rhode Island, said "people ... have really lost their faith in government. This is all about open government and account­ability." 
But Democrats counter that Republicans have failed to specify how their proposed tax cuts and new spending would be paid for. 
"This is a fraud, and I think the American people need to know that," said White House chief of staff Leon Panetta. 
As the event went on outside, Rep. George Miller. D-Calif., said on the House floor that Gingrich was leading "blind­folded candidates" to sign a pledge that will lead to mam­moth new deficits. 
"I would hope Americans will read this contract before they decide whether they will sign it or not," Miller said. 
The contract declares: "A campaign promise is one thing. A signed document is quite an­other." 
"It's really not a gimmick," Haley Barbour, chairman of the Republican National Commit­tee, said. "We're trying to make very plain the difference between a Republican House and a Democratic House." 
But the event, designed to capitalize on what is shaping up as a bad-news election sea­son for Democrats, also holds risks. Its unveiling was linked to a half-million-dollar fund­raiser that could be a public reminder of the insider politics that polls show voters disdain. 
Even so, the event on the Capitol steps today has Democrats worried. For two weeks the party in control of Congress has bashed the plan, calling it irresponsible and a return to a Reagan-style budget that would reward the rich, pe­nalize senior citizens and deep­en America's debt. 
The GOP plan is familiar campaign-trail fodder. Tax cuts, tough action against crime, welfare reform, the bal­anced-budget amendment and term limits are among its promises. 
But Republicans hoped the agenda would help soften the perception the GOP has become a party of naysayers with no positive program of its own, and appeal to voters tired of Washington gridlock. 
Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster who worked on the plan, said each of the 10 items in the "contract" registered at least a 60 percent public ap­proval rating. "The more Democrats draw attention to the contract, the better we will do," he said. 
The GOP often has sought to link its House candidates to­gether under national election themes, but with mixed results. This year's effort represents a new level of coordination. 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 28, 1994 


Wo01en Funeral Argentina suggests Lecture 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 continued from page 1 

NAFfA expansion
tempted to change others' per­After receiving his doctorate, threat to the Protestant com­
ceptions. In this period, how­ever, women writers were overshadowed by the male writers of the period, who were more assertive in their views, said Perry. 
Nevertheless, there were women who received positive criticism for their writing dur­ing that time, said Perry. Novelists such as Jessie Fauset, Nella Larson, and Zora Hurston, and poets Anne Spencer, Georgia Douglas Johnson, and Gwendolyn Ben­nett emerged and focused on the importance of race and were dedicated to installing racial pride in others. The themes of their literature were diverse, ranging from the frus­trated underachiever to the search for self-identity. 
Perry noted that the aim of these women was to point out the "idea of blackness being the informing spirit." She went on to add that these women at­tempted to correct others' views of blacks, a subject on which modern black writers do not focus. 
These women received some attention for their achieve­ments at the time from both a black and white audience, ac­cording to Perry. Such novels as "There is Confusion," by Jessie Fauset, and "Quicksand," by Nella Larson, are typical of the era and con­tributed to the progress achieved during the Harlem Renaissance. 
"Their role seems small, yet their contributions add much. These women forged a place for themselves, earning a place in the sun," concluded Perry. 
esc 
continued from page 1 
Monsignor Gremillion held a number of positions within the Church. The year was 1967 when he received two appoint­ments directly from Pope Paul 
VI. In one year's time, Gremil­lion was appointed secretary for the Pontifical Commission of Justice and Peace and a Vatican representative to the World Council of Churches. As a representative, he established direct collaboration between the Vatican and the World Council of Churches. 
He also extended his service to the American bishops as di­rector of social development services for Catholic Relief Ser­vices and executive secretary of the Pastoral Aid Fund for Latin America. 
According to Hesburgh, Gremillion's time was charac­terized by one world vision for the future unification through the Church. Hesburgh said that he seemed to possess a knack for uniting leaders of all nation­alities and strove for justice for minorities, encouraged youths, and proved to be successful. All of this was possible, accord­ing to Hesburgh, because he "had courage because he stepped on a few toes in the process." 

Even after his retirement in 1986, he remained on campus to continuously pursue his theo­logical research. Hesburgh described his presence on cam­pus as "an old four star general still walking the paths and talk­ing to the young people." 
A special portion of mass de­voted to contributing remem­brances revealed he will never be forgotten. Hesburgh simply stated, "he fought the best fight; that's the best I can say about him." 

Writer 
continued from page 1 
By RANDALL HACKLEY 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The Clinton administration is casting about for new members to its North American Free Trade Accord. What would be more natural than to invite Ar­gentina, a mere 4,000 miles south of the border? 
President Carlos Menem, in town Tuesday for the 49th U.N. General Assembly, trumpeted the economic achievements of his country since he became president in 1989, saying Ar­gentina's growth rate was third highest in the world behind China and Thailand and infla­tion just 3.5 percent this year. 
There should be a free trade pact from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego, at the southern tip of South America, Menem told 600 businessmen and interna­tional investors at the Americas Society. 
"It would be excellent if we could do it with NAFTA," Menem said. 
Besides the United States, the NAFT A members are Canada and Mexico, a free-trade mar­ket of 370 million consumers. 
Chile has drawn the U.S. ad­ministration's eye as a most­likely new entrant to NAFTA, due to its free-market economy, pro-democratic government and strong traditional ties to the United States. 
Besides Chile, according to a draft paper prepared this sum­mer by the office of the U.S. Trade Representative, the short-list for new members in­cludes Argentina, Colombia and Venezuela-all in South Amer­ica. 
However, Venezuela is suffer­ing severe economic, social and political problems. include coup attempts by the military, and Colombia has a drug-trafficking image that some U.S. lawmak­

ers would be hard-pressed to 
ignore. 
In any case, neither Chile or 
Argentina expects an invitation 
this year to join NAFTA. 
Congress nixed that this month 
-it must authorize the presi­
dent to pursue "fast-track" ne­
gotiations with NAFTA 
wannabees and Washington 
doesn't expect that until next 
spring. 
Some lawmakers, mostly Re­
publicans, held up enlarging 
NAFTA because they worried 
about language in any pact to 
enforce environmental protec­
tion measures abroad. 
Menem noted Tuesday that 'Argentina, with 33 million peo­
ple, has been a model of growth 
during his presidency, has abol­
ished nearly all trade barriers, 
has a stable currency for the 
first time in years and no such 
thing as hyperinflation. 
Inflation was 5,000 percent 
annually when Menem was 
elected to replace Raul 
Alfonsin; it's expected to be 4.0 
percent next year. when the 
economy will expand a hefty 7 
percent, he said. 
munity, he said. 
Thus, there has been an in­crease in the Protestant para­military. However, the para­military, unlike the IRA, has "not focused on economic activity or military targets." The Protestant paramilitary engages in random acts of vio­lence and killings. It is attempting to send a message to the Catholic community that if it helps the IRA it will suffer repercussions. 
According to Macintyre, hopes for peace in the near fu­ture seem bleak. Macintyre pointed to a "lack of able lead­ership in the Protestant com­munity." and he also believes that there is little possibility that an agreement would be accepted by both sides. 
Macintyre suggested that a "change of the face of the Protestant Community" or greater "economic cooperation between the 26 counties of the Republic and the 6 counties of Northern Ireland" would cre­ate a more stable bridge between the Protestants and the Catholics, and peace could bP. ;whiP.vP.rl 

Where's your

TURBAN 
O'Prey?? 
Jlil®JJJJJJW 
~(p]rb 


!13llml!PJ 
Love, The Six-Pack 
of Volunteer Service, will be discussing the National Service Program's regulations, defer­ment of student loans, and other areas of national service. 
In 20 years at her position as volunteer coordinator, Roemer said she has never encountered an incident where a financial institution refused loan defer­ment to a student doing volun­teer work. 
Roemer also said many times students' requests are honored when they ask for deferments from graduate schools or from jobs to do a year of volunteer work. 
"It's a great opportunity for a break from so many years of school," she said. It will give you real insight into what you might want to do later on." 
that "Philadelphia" oversimpli­fies homosexual issues. "This is not in itself a perfect ftlm. But it is perfectly aceptable and non-threatening to the overall community while still keeping the focus on the important is­sues of AIDS and homophobia," said Blandford. 
Nyswander is also the script­writer for "Mrs. Soffel," "Smithereens," "Love Hurts," and co-authored the hit "Gross Anatomy." He is currently liv-· ing in upstate New York, where he is a founding member of a theater company and volun­teers for an organization that feeds homebound persons with HIV/AIDS. 


( SUNDAY, OCTOBER 2 ) 
• NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY • • TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED • 




~ •$1fRiON•r 
BUS DEPARTS  RETURN  
LIBRARY CIRCLE  RIDE  TO CAMPUS  
10:30  11:00  12:30  
11:30  12:00  1:30  
12:30  1:00  2:30  
1:30  2:00  3:30  
2:30  3:00  4:30  



REGISTER&: PAY IN ADVANCE SIGN UP BY 5:00 PM ON THURSDAY, SEPT. 29 
MAXIMUM NUMBER PER RIDE IS 10 ;;,; FORMOR.EINFO CALL R£CSPORTSAT631-6100 

-· lllll
.PIIliiUPIII 
E 

Screening of film to be followed by discussion with academy award-nominated screenwriter Ron Nyswaner. 
Wednesday, September 28 7 p.m. Snite Museum ADMISSION IS FREE 
Wednesday, September 28, 1994 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page7 
Deadly plague epidemic spreads across India 
By THOMAS WAGNER 
Associated Press 
NEW DELHI 

A huge banner proclaimed "Plague Control Room" at the capital's train station, and po­lice stood by Tuesday to rush the sick to the hospital. There, feverish sufferers shivered while awaiting care; one ailing man tried to sneak away. 
Officials urged calm, but as plague spread from western Surat to New Delhi and across the nation to Calcutta, authori­ties also escalated efforts to find the sick, rush antibiotics to pharmacies and spray insecti­cide to kill disease-carrying fleas. 
TV broadcasts advised that plague can be treated with common antibiotics like tetra­cycline-drugs available in In­dia without a prescription. 
But some pharmacies in New Delhi and Bombay ran out of antibiotics, and New Delhi offi-
GOMA, Zaire 
In a grim sign that the Rwan~.; dan crisis is far from over, ···· flow of refugees fleeing lence in their country is piCk ing up again. 
After weeks of trying to con~ vince refugees it is safe to leave the squalid camps In Zaire and return home, U.N. officials say more refugees are now coming out of Rwanda than are going back. 
The latest arrivals tell simi-' lar stories of killings, arrests and harassment by the army of the new Tutsi-led government. 
Martin Semanza, a 20-year­old with bloodshot eyes, told The Associated Press on Tues· day that Tutsi soldiers killed his parents and three younger cials released a list of 200 For the first time, confirmed stores that were well-stocked cases of pneumonic plague and would be open 24 hours a were reported outside Surat, day. In Bombay, officials raided the port in Gujarat state that an two pharmacies because they estimated 400,000 people fled were selling antibiotics at after the disease struck a week black-market prices. ago. Nine cases were reported in New Delhi and Calcutta, hun­dreds of miles east of Surat. 


At least 54 people have died in Surat, including three on Tuesday. Unofficial estimates put the death toll at 300. 
Twenty people, most of them from Surat, were admitted to the Infectious Diseases Hospital in New Delhi, and two tested positive for pneumonic plague, Dr. R.C. Panda said. 
People shivering or sweating with fever arrived at the hospi­tal's emergency room and were examined by doctors whose faces were covered with surgi­cal masks. 
"We fled Surat because most of the private doctors were gone," said Ramesh Aggarwal, a businessman whose 9-year­old son, Varun, developed a fever after the family left Gu­jarat. "I rushed him here be­fore I even reached my rela­tives in Delhi." 
Another man from Surat with a high fever tried to sneak out of the emergency room to phone his family, but doctors stopped him. 
At New Delhi's train and bus stations, loudspeakers ordered arriving passengers with any ailment to report to doctors working there for free around the clock. 
Pneumonic plague is a more deadly form of bubonic plague -the disease that ravaged 14th century Europe and Asia as "the Black Death." The cur­rent plague outbreak is the first in India in 30 years. 
Indian officials and the World Health Organization urged peo­ple not to panic. They said there was no evidence of a widespread epidemic, but many nations announced plans to monitor travelers from India. 
Many of those who fled Surat had moved there in search of jobs in diamond-cutting and textile plants and returned to home cities and villages across India, possibly carrying the dis­ease with them. 

Mandela denies corruption charges 
ByTOMCOHEN 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 
Nelson Mandela campaigned for president on a promise his African National Congress would stop the "gravy train" of government corruption and special privileges. 
Now critics, even his support­ers, are charging that the ANC only wanted to stop the train long enough to get on. 
Mandela's uncharacteristic prickliness on the issue shows his sensitivity at being per­ceived as just another politician raiding the public coffers. 
On Monday night, he lashed out at longtime ally Archbishop Desmond Tutu for complaining about the new parliament's ap­proval of large salary increases for itself. 
"A respected leader was un­able to resist the temptation to jump on the bandwagon," Mandela said of Tutu, a fellow Nobel Peace Prize winner for his work against apartheid. "I consider it an act of irresponsi­bility on his part." 
Tutu shot back quickly, telling The Associated Press on Tuesday that the nation's first black president was "showing he's just like any other politi­cian." 
''I'm sad, but in a way you've got to say it is good for democ­racy that even people who like one another can differ," he said. 
The salary plan, devised by an independent commission appointed before the first all­race election in April, set the president's salary and benefits at the equivalent of $221,000 a year. 
Under the former white-led government, President F.W. de Klerk was paid about $81,700 a year. However De Klerk paid no income taxes, an exemption lifted by the new government. After taxes, Mandela will take home about $115,400. 
Members of the new parlia­ment get salaries of about $54,400 -up from $37,300 under the old government. 
While such figures don't seem excessive by Western standards, they stand out in a country where millions of im­poverished blacks living in shacks without power or run­ning water voted for Mandela to change their lives. 
"In terms of the people out there, it was one of the most inappropriate things to have done," Tutu said. "It's filled people with some disillusion­ment." 
Other complaints have fo­cused on a plan, since with­drawn, for government officials to pay personal aides well above the normal civil service salaries. And a decision to give political parties $845 per par­liament member to set up con­stituency offices was con­demned as plundering tax dol­lars. 

22nd Annual Summer Program ND-SMC Students 
LONDON ROME May 24-June23 June 18-July 17 
Courses offered in MUSIC, EDUCATION, BUSINESS & ECONOMICS, HISTORY, ITALIAN 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING-October 3 
6:30 pm Carroll Hall • Free Pizza • 
Past students and faculty participants will be present. For infonnation call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
Be mesmerized by one ofthe world's greatest hypnotists Sponsored by the Student Activities Office Thurs. Sept. 29. and Fri. Sept. 30 at 8:00pm 101 DeBartolo Hall Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office for $3  

--"----~---------~------­
~---­
r r 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Mattina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of o:he University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect o:he policies of the administra­tio~ of eio:her institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­tonals represent o:he opinion of the majotity of o:he Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenraries, letrers and Inside Columns present o:he views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions o:hrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 



• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Senior Bar does focus on students 
Dear Editor: 
Instead of pinpointing the many fal­lacies of the September 23 Observer article, "Senior Bar: The place to be or not?." I would like to more correctly inform readers of the real Alumni­Senior Club, better known as Senior Bar. 
As its name suggests, the Alumni­Senior Club's purpose is to serve the alumni and senior class of Notre Dame. The Alumni benefit from Senior Bar mainly on football weekends and during reunions. The rest of our time and energy focuses on the students at activities, campus bands, dorm SYRs alone is what we consider success.

NO, more specifically, the aged 21­and many other facets of NO social life If Senior Bar is "the place not to be,"and-over senior class. 

utilize the Alumni-Senior Club's facili­according to news-writer Nancy Dunn, Senior Bar is a student-managed, ties. then I'd like to know where she hangs 
student-employing and student­

What really matters is that the atti­out when she's not writing biasedpatronized private club located on the tudes about Senior Bar change from Observer articles which solely reflectNO campus. Our prices are raised on year to year as the staff and the senior her ignorance and lack of profession­horne football weekends so that we class also differ each year. The 94-95 alism. 
can keep them as low as possible for staff agrees that they have the best job REBECCA BENSONthe students on every other night. 

on campus and the students we see on ManagerEverything in Senior Bar is specifically Wednesday and Thursday nights sure Alumni-Senior Club there for the students. Senior class 
seem to be having a good time: that 

Male dominion rears its ugly head 
Dear Editor: cliched male defense that 'men and women are fundamen­I am not surprised to read Paul Pribaz's rebuttal of Kelly tally different, yet perfectly complimentary'. O'Neil's column in his letter to the editor on Sept. 22. I am not surprised that he, like may others, believe that 
I am not surprised that he chose to offer his defense with having Mother Mary as a model for holiness automatically 'the church has no authority whatsoever to confer priestly blinds us to the inferior treatment meted to women all over ordination on women'. the world. 
I am not surprised that he doesn't realize that is the very I am surprised that Pribaz would have us believe that point Kelly intends to raise-the status quo of the patriar­women have their designated place in the family of God, chal church system. and that God wills that women be trifled and discriminated I am not surprised that he rushes to defend this attack with. on male dominance. 
I am not surprised that he interprets Kelly's reference to SHANKAR RAMACHANDRAN the equality of men and women anatomically, (when she Graduate Student obviously meant in the context of status) and reiterates the Peace House 
Time to get on the ball, RecSports 
Dear Editor: 
It is my understanding that the purpose of RecSports is to provide recreational opportunities for the non-varsity athletes here at Notre Dame. Football. soccer and tennis are three sports that I have found RecSports' organization of to be rather haphazard. My freshman year. I signed up to participate in a mixed-doubles tennis tournament. RecSports gives people byes in the first round. then never tells anyone when the first round will fmish. People are forced to forfeit. 
Soccer has also been rather unorganized. Last year, Badin Hall made it to the final with out having a loss. Impressive? Well, if we had actually played the 6 or 7 games that got us there, then, yes, w& were one heck of a team. RecSports could be a little more organized than that. 
Women's interhall flag football has been probably the most frustrating activity I have ever participated in. One year. people living off-campus cannot play for their ex­dorm. The next year, they can. This year, RecSports has decided that off-campus people can only play on the off-campus team. For a dorm the size of Badin. that really hurts. Four of our players live off­campus and would like to play for Badin this year. I thought that RecSports was here for the students, to make sports fun. Instead RecSports is making interhall ath­letics confusing and frustrating. 
Also, is it really necessary to fill out a new insurance form/waiver for every single sport we play? RecSports needs to think about the way that it runs many of its pro­grams. Including students in the decision making is one way to generate ideas on how to provide services that are more effi­Cient and more user-friendly. 
JULIE JANOWAK 
Junior Badin Hall 

•  DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
NO/,{), GIL., YOUHAVC. ; NorHING TV tiJORJ<YA!!fJUT. t<IAL--MAI<T()Jftl ~ASA MA(:;I"olfl,O<£· ATING A80'JN FOR. AL./, /I)­CAL-5JDR83.'  YOUR 20,000 SQ. FT. SUPti<.­PHARMACI IS 60/NG TO ACT AS A !lRAW FOR. MY 6::XJ SQ. FT. I?Rl.J3 <.:iTOR£3. ~ I IXJN'T THINK 9Jl ~  

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Rules and models destroy genius and art." 
-~illi~ II~litt 

r-----------------------------------------~------------------------·------~------------------------------------------------·~---­
..





ACCENT 
Wednesday, September 28, 1994 page 9 
Professors offer insight on Simpson trial 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI media personality Orenthal nity to discuss discipline related Accent Writer James Simpson. interests." 
The Popular Culture Club, at Pauley goes on to say that, "I 
A white car sped along the Saint Mary's, will sponsor the see in this case a good case Florida highway, and panel, which will be moderated study of some principle that Americans watched it on their by Professor Patrick White. anyone who studied communi­televisions. A man stands ac­Each member of the panel will cations would have to under­cused of murdering his wife, present and analyze a different stand." This is the principle of and there is a sudden increase aspect of the case. All members the "false intimacy of society," in the awareness of spousal of the panel will discuss the Pauley said. abuse in America. broad issues which have been Pauley feels that as everyone 
Everyone has an opinion mentioned in the popular me­lives in a mass media society, 
about the man in the white car, dia, however, each member will everyone should be aware of and everyone wants cameras in put them in the perspective of the effects of living in such an the courtroom. The O.J. his or her specialized field. environment. Simpson case has elements of Professor Ted Billy will focus "Media enforces the idea that drama, pathos, horror, and on the media's role in the they give us personal relation­social value. Simpson case. According to ships which we don't have," 
Members of the Saint Mary's Billy, the media blitz and sen­Pauley said. College faculty, Professors Ted sationalism of the pre-trial pro­Plamondon will also discuss Billy, Mary Caputi, John Pauley, ceedings has "infringed upon it the effects of the media in the and Ann Plamondon will meet [the trial] and distorted it." Simpson case, but will present to discuss these various aspects Billy will discuss the case in a lawyer's opinion. Plamondon of the Simpson case and their terms of "the cult of victimol­will address the legal issue of precedents from the Supreme Simpson in terms of the decapi­ramifications tonight, ogy." From this stance, the de­organizing an impartial jury, Court to set the case in a histor­tation of women as a whole.
September 28, in Stapleton sire of the American public to and the credibility of the evi­ical context. Caputi plans to discuss the caseLounge. be made aware of the case is a dence. 
Issues of gender and race will in light of the psychological is­The Simpson case has "testament to how decadent our Like Pauley, Plamondon sees be addressed by Caputi. sues founded by Freud, andsparked interest from most ar­culture is," as no private life this case as an opportunity to Focusing on the racial aspect the Oedipal Complex. 
eas of society. Racial groups, remains "sacred anymore," ac­observe a "discipline related of the case would detract from The panel will present a col­women's rights groups, legal cording to Billy. principle" in application. From the case as a gender issue, ac­lection of focused, and special­groups, members of the media, Pauley will also discuss the the legal standpoint, the exclu­cording to Caputi. She will dis­ized opinions of the Simpsonhave all developed various effects of the media in the case. sionary rule which involves cuss this in depth, in terms of case in order to place a betteropinions about the murder of He will do so from the stand­popular knowledge of evidence, the fear of female autonomy. perspective on today's mostNicole Simpson, and the accu­point that it is a "case study is being demonstrated. 
Caputi was fascinated with talked about issue of who-done­sation of her former husband, that would give us the opportu-Plamondon will also cite legal the quasi-decapitation of Nicole it. 

Calloway's offers alternative entertainment 
ByPATII CARSON a talent that they would like to Saint Mary's Accent Editor share. If anyone wants to pre­sent a poetry reading or gather 
Picture this, a steaming mug some friends to put on a one act of coffee, a deck of cards, and play, we'd be thrilled," she said. your closest friends. Add the chance to win free t-shirts and Awe said that the coffee coffee mugs. Throw in True house is meant to be used by North, the popular campus everyone, so she encourages all band. Does it get any better students and professors to visit. than this? Come and see for The most rewarding part of yourself this Saturday night at being a student manager, Dalloway's. according to Awe and Doyle, is 
witnessing the establishment of 
Dalloway's Coffee House, a place for student unity. which opened in 1991 and has been student-run hence, is "We like to see students sup­managed again this year by porting campus bands and we Holy Cross Hall juniors, Jen enjoy seeing friends come to Doyle and Meggan Awe. meet over a cup of coffee," 
"Dalloway's is a place for stu­Doyle said. dents to listen to campus bands According to Awe, Dalloway's and poetry readings. It's also a is run entirely by students. place to grab a cup of coffee and play cards," said Doyle. "Student volunteers from 
both campuses keep the place 
"Students from both Saint going," she said. Awe does not Mary's and Notre Dame are see serving coffee for an hour welcome and encouraged to or two as a demanding job. She visit Dalloway's, everyone is in­sees it more as belonging to a vited" said Awe. social club. 
"Even though we can't ad­"Anyone interested in volun­vertise as much as we'd like to teering or sharing talents on the Notre Dame campus, should give us a call or stop by we'd like for Notre Dame stu­the coffee house," Awe said. dents to use this facility also," Doyle added. Professors from Dalloway's is open on both campuses are also wel­Mondays from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. come at the coffee house. It is also open on Wednesdays 
and Saturdays from 8 p.m. to Dalloway's Coffee House of· 12 a.m. fers a wide variety of beverages "Again, we encourage stu­
"This year, we 'II be serving dents from both campuses to ice mocha and ice coffee, two come to Dalloway's. We'll even beverages that we didn't carry "You name it," said Awe, cup for half price on special into the infamous Dalloway's. give you some incentive to trek last year," said Doyle. "We've got cards, checkers, nights. "Bring your own coffee "The establishment has been on over," said Doyle, "If visi­
Uno, Scrabble, Battleship, and mug and subtract ten cents successful so far," said Doyle, tors mention that they read this 
Dalloway's will also serve more." from the regular price of cof­"Last year, our biggest crowd article, we'll subtract fifteen coffee, mocha, lattes, cappuc­fee," said Doyle. gathered when Tim O'Neil, 'the cents from the regular price of cino, soda, hot chocolate, and Adding to the list, the Coffee Piano Man,' performed at their coffee." mineral water, added Doyle. House will feature a variety of Awe said that Dalloway's, Dalloway's. We also ended the All of the coffee served at the specials. For instance, those which traditionally is open on year with a bang when Plan ahead to experience coffee house comes from Spice who carry the Dalloway's Mondays, Wednesdays, and Victoria's Real Secret per­Dalloway's this Saturday night of Life, according to Doyle. Coffee Club Card may buy nine Saturdays, is scheduled with formed." from 8 p.m. to midnight. 
cups of coffee and get the tenth the office of Special Events on Imagine how relaxing it would 
According to Awe, Dalloway's cup free, according to Doyle. the Saint Mary's campus. Doyle said that Dalloway's is be to sit down with a hot cup of has also invested in some new Dalloway's uses the Saint not just a place for campus coffee warming up after a cold games to entertain student dur­Also, those who buy one cup Mary's College Clubhouse on bands and study breaks. day after watching the football ing weekends or study breaks. of coffee may get the second these nights, transforming it "We're looking for anyone with game. 

--~-------------------------------------~-.-., 
page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 28,1994 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2
• cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
FEMALE MODELS 18-25 needed  Need BYU TIX  I need Navy GA's PLEASE!  NEED 8 STANFORD TICKETS.  I need a "Drink like a champion  
~ I  NOTICES  by photographer for photo/video worlc in lingerie and similar apparel. Call Jim at273-7074 for info.  Will trade Stanford tickets Call Mike at (513)228-3349  Call Brandon at x-3460 1 stan!. stud. ticket to sell  CALL GRANT 416-865-7741. I NEED ONE AIR FORCE TICKET­ today" !-shirt please. Call Mud at X2569  
IIII!ATIENTION SOPHO­ Need 3 'GA's for Navy or Air Force;  call 287·1449  GA OR STUDENT. PLEASE CALL  WANTED: New Mama. Call Ugly  
I I I I I I I  MORESI!III The Class of '97 Service Project will be kicking off the year with a house painting project on Sunday, 10/9. It will be the first of many projects with the Northeast Neighborhood. Help us get off to a great start and help us help others. Talk to your Sophomore Class Council Dorm Rep, or call Brian at x1 058. Thanks -trust us...  Ride needed Fri. 9/29 to Chicago area. xRudy 233-4008 Helplll Need bass player for our band. Sorry, no metal, rap, or polka music Call Julie 273-0182 FOR RENT THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  make an offer! Paul-2n-6433 Need 1 Stanford stud. orGA Call Nick 289-9708 NEED 2 GA BYU tix and 2-6 GA Stanford tix. Please call Rachael at #4667. NEED 2 GA's for NAVY &  PLEASE HELP: Holy Cross (MA) Women's and Men's X -Country Teams NEED Tickets to Stanford Game (GA or Stud) please call Ted at4-1663 I need 2 GA's for Stanford. Mike 289-3203 I NEED BYU GA'S  X3816. THANKS! Help! I need two Stanford Student tix or GA's. My alum brother is fly­ing in from California and will lock me in the closet (like he did when we were kids) if I don't have tix for him! Please helpl Cyndi 284-5322. NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S. CALL AARON X3460.  Babies. x2286 Student Activities is accepting applications for a Stepan Building Manager. For more information and/or an application stop by 315 LaFortune. Apply by Friday, September 30. Quality Copies. Quickly!II 000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
I I I I I I I I  -··••you WILL HAVE FUNI**•..•• USED TEXTS CHEAP!!II Buy & sell used books at the only hip place in town 1 o-6M-S/9-3Sun PANDORA'S BOOKS NO ave & Howard St 233-2342 Downtown Book Wholesaler needs  NAPPANEE. ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­773-2034 THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & BREAKFAST-Historic Home, quiet setting, 4 guest rooms. shared baths. 20 minutes to campus.  NEED 4 GA's for BYU CALL Chris x-1353 I need 2 Stanford GA's x1659 Desi NEED 3 STUDENT STANFORD TXTS-X2377. NO Alums Need Stanfd. GA's Call (313) 420-1208 or (310) 813·  CALL JEFF @ 277-8250 I need 3 G.a>'s to B.Y.U. If u can help, call Ron at x1736 Desperate for BYU GA Ted@4-3485 NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR STANFORD  NO Alum Needs 2 STANFORD GAs. BIG $$1 Call217-337-6862 need 1 GA for BYU, AIR FORCE or NAVYI call ann x4544 I need 4 Stanford GA's Call 234·1139  LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY ET IN ARCADIA EGO Interested in the secret histories of covert social forces? Seeking true power & wealth? Fascinated by the politics of opportunism & manipulation? Prepared to do what­ever it takes to get what you  
clerical &lor warehouse  616-695-6321.  5659  Parents coming from CALIFOR­ Need 1 stanford tix desperately! I  want? If this is your truth, you may  
worlcers flexible schedule & wkend  NIA- Call Eileen at x4086 to negotiate!  be spiritually Iiiio join the  
WOrK 232-8500 X22  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY.  Long lost family and friends coming  CALL JENNIE AT 272·0108  Bavarian Illuminati.  
ask for Bryan ILOST & FOUND I  PRIVATE HOMES -ND/SMC EVENTS. 219-291·7153.  for STANFORD game! Desperately need 7 tixl Call Donald x1844. FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  I need one Air Force GA or student ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please call X3822. Thanks!  Elp-hayl 1-hay eed-nay oo-tay An­ford-stay ickets-tayll All-cay lkki­nay at-hay X4081.  We will have our first meeting on Friday,Sept30,at8pminthe lobby of the Architecture Building. Conspiratorial elitists & Machia­ 
1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR  HOME GAMES. 272-7233.  Need 2 Navy GA's. Call287-1953  vellian personalities are welcome.  
FOUND: Bracelet in DeBartolo; call  RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS  I need 2 Stanford GAs for my par­ No jokers/slackers/Discordians  
Susan 277-1724  PROPERTIES. 272·6306  FLYING OUT FROM CALIFORNIA  ents. Please call Tom at 271-9576.  Angry Airmen need Air Force GA's.  need attend. This is a serious offer:  
• DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA  Thanks!  Serve your country. Call x4816.  come fulfill your destiny!  
••••• REWARD •••••  Looking for Student Tenant  TICKETS TO STANFORD GAMEl  
A $250 REWARD GOES TO  clean,furnished,1-bedroom apt.  (916)671-3299 KEVIN  Need three GAs for any home  SMC-ND STUDENTS SUMMER  
ANYONE WHO CAN RETURN  $275. 607 E. Corby-3 blocks  I NEED STANFORD AND FLA ST  game. Call Matt at 289-2710  TRAVEL PROGRAMS LONDON  
MY 1991 CANNONDALE RED  west of N.D. Ave. Deposit,  Family flying from ALASKA for 1st  GAs-631-6696 CHRIS  baaahh  AND ROME. CREDITS IN BUEC,  
SHRED COMPETITION SERIES  references,800-582·9320  NO game. Need 4 BYU ticks., stu.  ED, MUSIC, HIST, & ITALIAN.  
BIKE. A SMALLER REWARD  or G.A. PLEASE! Call shannon  $$$NEED 2 STANFORD TIX  Need 1 Stanford ticket­ TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOT­ 
GOES TO ANYONE WHO CAN  DO YOU NEED A HOTEL ROOM  291-6288  CALL X3526 $$$  Kevin @ 289-3203  LAND, FRANCE, SWITZ. MEET·  
GIVE ME REAL INFO AS TO ITS  FOR THIS WEEKEND?  lNG OCT. 3, 6:30 CARROLL HALL  
WHEREABOUTS. PLEASE  NEED TIX • 5 BYU GA'S, 4 STAN·  HELPI! I NEED BC GA'S. PLEASE  (SMC) FOR INFO CALL PROF.  
HELP ME-SOMEONE IS NOW  -RELATIVES FROM OUT OF  FORD GA'S • Call Joe @x2765  I DESPARATELY NEED 2 GA's to  CALL LIZ X2325. :)  A.A. BLACK-284-4460 OR 272·  
RIDING AROUND ON MY LIFE  TOWN HAD CHANGE OF PLANS  the Navy Game for my parents from  3726  
SAVINGS. -JANET  AND WILL NOT BE USING ITI  NY ­Please helpl  INDIGO GIRLS-NEED 2 tix! 271­ 
x1572  -IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN RENTING A DOUBLE ROOM AT  Crazy and beautiful Mormons Need 3 BYU tickets-Call x2703.  Call Brian x1058-Thank you............................................  1532  I need a date for my SYR on 10/8 If you are a FEMALE, have a  
FOUND: A watch at the Observer  THE SIGNATURE INN FOR THIS  NEED UP TO 8 GA'S FOR STAN­ PULSE, and can BREATHE  
I  Classified Department. Please  COMING FRIDAY AND SATUR·  STANFORD GAME-NEED  FORD CHRIS X1527  you're perfect give me a call  
I  come back to claim it.  DAY NIGHT PLEASE CALL PATTY @X1556  WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GA'S FOR ANY 2 HOME GAME GA'S  3GA'S&2STUDS PLEASE 2773109  Want to trade my 2 Navy GA's (50·  x2136 ask for Sean  
t I I I  FOUND: Small pair of keys outside of Zahm. To claim call Ed lmbus 4­3334. FOUND (mid-September): small  FOR SALE  CALL JULIE 2845516 NEED FSU TIX SUSAN 2771724  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S PAUL X4327 ••••• NEED 2 STAFORD GA's ••••• -> for family, call Pete at x3586  yd line) for 2 BYU GA's Call Chris x3767 NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S CALLX4570  ARE YOU AFRAID OF TIME CON­SUMING RELATIONSHIPS? SO ARE WE! IF LOW-MAINTE· NANCE IS WHAT YOU'RE LOOK­ 
~ I I I ~  crucifix, near library circle. call kirsten at 4-4185 if you think it might be yours. $50 REWARD-For the return of or info. leading to the return of 2 CO's: Pearl Jam "No -· Messiah" and Nirvana "All Acoustically". 272­ Tired of walking? CLASSIC 1972 NOVA, 4 Dr, 61K, Auto, PS, New Tires, Runs Greaal! Some rust, $1100, Leave message 299-1774. For Sale 20' (2X10') Mark Levinson speaker cords with goldtipped  NEED STANFORD STUD. TIX CALL 234-8958. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA·WILL PAY BIG BUCKS-CHRIS 4-3095 I have 2 Navy GA's to trade for 2 BYU GA's. Call Joe x4024  or x0796. FOR SALE STUD TIX for STANFORD and all other home games Scott 272-6621 ###################### WANTED: 4 Stanford GAs  Need Stan. GAs Eric x1087 I will trade 2 50 yd line Air Force Tix for 2 Stanford Tix or will buy Stanford Tix. Call Bob (818)577­7849 SALE:2STAND/2BYU  ING FOR -CALL JULIE OR LAURA 284-4312 AUDITIONS 1!!!1 AUDITIONS 1!111 AUDITIONS !1!1!  
I I I I  4021 WANTED  audio quest connects. $125 or best offer. 654-7887 (eve). '71 M.G. MIDGETT RED CON­VERTIBLE. SHARP. RUNS GOOD. $1,700. CALL 277-3239.  I need 2 NAVY GAs Will pay Big $$$ Please call Laura at 284-4328  call Whitney @ 288-2589 ###################### HELP, I NEED TIX TO ALL HOME GAMESI (GA'S & STUDEND esp.  best offer leave mess 288-8680 Need 2 Stanford tix Call Gary 800­227-4000. ext 612 M-Thr 12-4.  Tonight! From 7-91here are audi· lions for folks who want to act in one of two student directed plays. (In the Upper Lab of Washington Hall for A.A. Gurney's "The Dining Room• and in the Lower Lab for  
~  WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST  • 2 GA'S FOR STANFORD  PRIEST in need\ of 3 Stanford  Wendy Wasserstein's "Uncommon  
I  GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY  Multi-track Cassette Recorder.  ND Grad student  • 1 STUDENT TIC FOR BYU  tickets for family. Call288-9514.  Women and Others"), No  
I I I I  SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO­MOTE SPRING BREAK TO JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE TRAVEUCOMMISSIONS! SUN  4 tracks; 12 inputs. New $999; Sell $675. 277-5912; 631-7133 CONDO FOR SALE-Woodbridge­ seeks 4 Navy GAs to take family to game Call271-7276  • MANY GA'S &lor STUDENT FOR AIR FORCE • 4 GA'S TOGETHER FOR ANY GAME PLEASE HELPI THANK YOUI  WANTED: 1 STANFORD STUD/GAl CALL Rachel #4·4093 Helpll I need 2 BYU and 2 Navy  experience needed! Call Kim Massman or Jen Andrei!! AUDITIONS IIIII  
t I I I  SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710. BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR ONE­HOUR AM EXERCISE CLASSES. PAID POSITION PLUS FREE  Minutes from NO-end unit on pond­18177F Stoneridge-2BR+Loft. Fireplace, All Gar w/Opener­$58,00D-Call232-5190.  HELPI I need 1 Stanford GA (or married) Monica X2995 Need 3 Stanford Tix, GA preferred Call 234·6843. Ask for Dan  CALL KATIE ADAMS @2845 stu. tix for sale, call 272·5842 FOR SALE: 2 Stanford GA's.  GAs. Call Monica X4091. ••• FOR SALE ••• FOUR STANFORD GA'S. TOGETHER ON 15-YD LINE  AUDITIONS !1111 AUDITIONS !!1!1 HEY GUESS WHAT I NEED B.C. TICKETSI  
EXERCISE MEMBERSHIP. CALL  Manley.  273-9838.  CALL BILL AT 291·6216  CALL KIRA AT 284-4308  
277-G111 FOR MORE INFO.  FREE KITTENS-8 weeks old  
call nicole x4544  I WANT YOU to sell me 2 BYU  Bevin needs 4 Stanford GAs. Call  
I bet you can't sell me your 10  GAs. Please call271·0226.  X2533 and sell them to her.  I need 2 BYU tickets!I!!!  
***SPRING BREAK 95...  SCHWINN COLLEGIATE 3-SPEED  Stanford GA's!l  call Bob at x 4223  
America's #1 Spring Break  BIKES, MAN'S & WOMAN'S, NEW  Call Jon x3367  Need 1 Stanford stu. tick. Call  SALE Stanford & Navy stud. lix­ 
Company! Cancun, Bahamas,  TIRES, TUBES, COMFORT  Shannon 291·6288  Belen x4285  Need tickets for BC  
Daytona & PanamaI 11 0% Lowest  SEATS. $100 EACH. 277-2182.  call Eric or Jeff at 232-8337  
Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and TRAVEL FREE! Earn highest commissions! (800)32­ TICKETS  Please Please Please Please I need 4 Stanford GA's Will trade Navy GA's or buy.  HELPII Looking for 2 GAs for BYU Call277-3811  NEED Stanford tickets, student or GA-Call Rob @ 1900  Top 10 quotes from the wild crazy party at Lafayette Square last  
TRAVEL  WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU  -Bryan x1190...................,.,.................  NEED MANY STANFORD TIX $$call Pete x1728  Need Stanford GA's. Call Collect 513-339·7068  weekend:  
PHOTOGRAPHERS: NO Photo  TICKETS. CALL  10) Where did Kim GO? (ha, ha).  
Dept needs student help. B&W lab  800-922-2327 JANET.  I HAVE 2 NAVY GA TIX  Taking the LSAT? Sell me your  FOR SALE : 2 GA's for Stanford  9)That's not my loot (ha. ha)  
exp. a+. Earn$, exp. 1-7350.  I NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA TIX  Stanford ticket. Call Will at x1699.  50 yd line row 20  8)Whal? we kicked the keg  
LETS MAKE A TRADE  $100 each or BO  already? (ha, ha)  
MACRI'S DELl  I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.  I'LL PAY THE DIFFERENCE  I NEED STANFORD GA's  Tony 272-6621  7)Jim is really drunk. Wait, that's  
Help wanted. Need 8-12 energetic  272-6551  DENISE X2549  X4-2193  not Bob. (ha, ha)  
people to complete our staff. Front and bac)< of the house positions available. Good.starting pay with  4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED.  I HAVE 2 NAVY GA TIX I NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA TIX  Need Slnfrd stdnl or GA tixs, call Chris x1197  I need Navy GA's. Paul at X2681 Desperately Need 2 Stanford GA's  6)Don't touch me there-touch me here! (ha, ha) 5)1 hale Macaroni and cheese with  
benefits and bonuses. Flexible  CALL X2875 (NICKY)  LETS MAKE A TRADE  Please call Chris @ 1527  salsa! (ha, ha)  
hours, excellent working conditions. Apply within 214 Niles Ave. 1/2 block South of Corby's. 282-1351  CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME. I would if I had tick­ I'LL PAY THE DIFFERENCE DENISE X2549 Need 1 GA Stan. BYU or A. F.  Please! I need 1 BYU GA and 2 STANFORD GAsI Mary Beth x4220  I NEED 2 BYU GA'sl Call Julie @277-4612  4)Those aren't cops, it's just Lafayette Square security. (Ha. Ha) 3)Ryan, put that coffee table away. (ha, ha)  
ets to the Stantord game. Alum  Matt 3571  Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call  2)Curly, do you have any tooth­ 
HELP WANTED:  REALLY wants to return to campus  Sue at 277-8995  WANTED BOSTON COLLEGE  paste? (ha , ha)  
ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER  with family. Student tix ok. Price  NEED BYU GA'S. CALL ERIN  2771659  1)Potter, is your sister dating any­ 
ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS  negotiable, Call collect after 6 pm  #4015  HelpII need two Stanford GA's call  one? (ha, ha)  
NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND  (516) 499:5009.  Jen at273-0741  NEED A BYU TICKET  
ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY  $1 NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S$  CALL x 1439  ...IF YOU GET THIS, YOU DON'T  
NEWS SERVICES,  WANTED: BYU GA'S WILL PAY  CALL AMY X2652  ND Family Reunion  GET IT...  
232-3205 OR 288-9361.  BIG BUCKS. CALL KRISTEN OR KATE@ 271·0224  NEED 1 STANFORD STUD OR  Need 4-6 STANFORD GA's Family has airfare, now we need  PERSONAL  Who the hail forgot the detergent?  
GA. LESLEY 4819  tickets!! Call x3650  Me, common sense? WHAT?  
PIZZA MAKER -PART TIME - I NEED TWO NAVY G.A.  
EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD  CALL MIKE X3692  Need 2 Standford tix  NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE AND  YOOHOOI Where R U? 3 chicks  HEY MAN, SH'UP KIA.  
MONEY.  Call Chris x3767  STANFORD! CALL BOB *1233  looking 4 NICE guys & cant find  ·-·YOU I'M A WOMAN.  
CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW  $$$Help! I need 2 Navy GAs.  any. II UR out there, write to  
YORK  Please call Lisa at 277-0740. Will  Need 2 STANFORD GA's  Need 2 STANFORD GAs for dad  The B.U.S.  Seamaisin at The Midway Tavern,  
257-1100.  pay top dollars.$$$  Please call Curtis-282-2197  and bro. TOP $$1 Anna x2286.  672 Lemans Hall  Mishawaka, Every Thursday  

---------~----~ ~~----------~~-~~-~ -~­
1 
Wednesday, September 28, 1994 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 
The Eugene B. Clark Lecture Series Presents 


DAVID w. JOHNSON 
Chairman, President, and C.E.O. of 




Stmp 'COIII/Janv 

I I 


'COIPIING 
AND INNING: 
GlOBAl PEOPlE 
POWER" 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I 
I
FRIDAY, SEPT. 30 • 9:45 A.M. 
ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM, SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
ADMISSION IS fREE 
I 
4 1 
Coordinated by the College of Business Administration, the Marketing Club, ~ I and the Office of Corporate Relations. 
l i 
~ I ~I 

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday,September 28,1994 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 



Husker manager a real life 'Rudy' 
By RICK WARNER 
Associated Press 
Adam Kucera enjoyed the movie "Rudy," the inspirational story of a 27-year-old bench warmer at Notre Dame who got to play briefly in hls fmal home game. 
"I liked it because it was about an underdog who made his dreams come true," Kucera said. 
Last Saturday, he starred in a "Rudy" revival in Lincoln, Neb. 
A 5-foot-8, 180-pound fresh­man who was a student man­ager for the Nebraska football team a month ago, Kucera found himself playing quarter­

l• 
back for the second-ranked Cornhuskers in the closing min­utes of a 70-21 rout of Pacific. 

t With fans chanting "Rudy, Rudy" and his father cheering from the stands, Kucera en­tered the game with 5:22 left and guided the Cornhuskers to two first downs. He left after five plays, gaining four yards on his only run and throwing an incompletion with his only pass. "It was a dream come true for me," he said. "I grew up in Nebraska, my dad was a coach at Nebraska, and I went to foot­ball camps there every sum­mer. "I was always a big Nebraska fan. My closets are still filled with red things." Kucera was a good high school quarterback in Lake Havasu City, Ariz., but was too small to be recruited by big­time colleges. Determined to participate in Nebraska foot­ball, he joined the team as a student manager, setting up tackling dummies, fixing hel­mets and doing other odd jobs. When two quarterbacks left school and another was injured during preseason practice, Kucera was pressed into ser­vice on the scout team ­scrubs who play the part of the upcoming opponent in practice. "I was just excited to put on the uniform," he said. Kucera, who wants to be an orthopedic surgeon, got even more excited when he found out he might play in a mop-up role against outmanned Pacific. So did his father Bill, a gradu­ate assistant at Nebraska 
before becoming Adam's high school coach in Arizona. He flew in to watch the game. 
"If Adam was going to play, I didn't want to miss it," he said. 
Adam's moment finally came after Pacific scored late in the game. Following the kickoff, coach Tom Osborne sent Kucera in with his first play, a pitch to tailback Scott Davenport. 
"As soon as I ran out there, the nervousness disappeared," Kucera said. "I just focused on the play. I didn't even hear the crowd." 
Kucera ran for four yards on the next play, but the gain was wiped out by a holding penalty. Mter two more running plays, he tried his frrst pass. 
"It was a timing pattern, but I couldn't see the receivers be­cause the linemen were in front of me," Kucera said. "I just threw it away to be safe." 
It's hard to see over giant line­men when you're only 5-8. Even though starter Tommie Frazier is sidelined by a blood clot in his leg, Kucera knows his playing time will still be lim­ited to scrimmages and blowout victories. 
''I'll never be a starter or a second-string quarterback at Nebraska because of my size," he said. "But I'm comfortable with the position I'm in. I'm happy being the fourth-string quarterback. Asking for more would only lead to disappoint­ment." 
Quarterback coach Turner Gill, a graduate assistant with Bill Kucera in 1990, said Adam is an overachiever. 
"He's a heady player," Gill said. "He doesn't have the size, strength or speed to be a regu­lar player here, but he's very intelligent and he comes from a good football background." 
"I'm as proud of him as I can be," Bill Kucera said. "He's al­ways been a great student and a great leader. And now he's getting a chance to fulfill his dream." 
Already, friends and team­mates are calling him Rudy. So what does the original Rudy think of Kucera? 
"I hadn't heard about him, but I'm happy whenever I hear a story like that," said Rudy Ruettiger. 
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES 
YOUNGER SCHOLARS 
$2,000 for a summer research project six Notre Dame students won awards last year 
information meeting Wednesday, September 28 7:00p.m. O'Shaughnessy 106 
sponsored by Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts College of Arts and Letters 



Frazier out indefinitely 
ByTOMVINT 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN 
With Nebraska's Tommie Frazier still hospitalized, coach Tom Osborne was hopeful Tuesday that the second­ranked Cornhuskers would not lose their quarterback for the remainder of the season. 
Frazier was undergoing treat­ment to dissolve a blood clot behind his right knee. The junior quarterback probably would remain in Bryan Hospital at least a few more days, Osborne said. 
"Tommie Frazier is one of those people I'm positive will not play this week," Osborne said. "I don't think it's a done deal that he'll miss the rest of the season necessarily." 
It still was not certain how Frazier developed the clot, Osborne said. Such injuries generally result from a blow that later develops into a clot. 
But Frazier couldn't recall taking a hit to the calf area. The clot was discovered Sunday. 
Frazier complained of some soreness in the calf the morn­ing of the game, Sept. 17. He played most of that 49-21 victo­ry, but was on the field for just nine plays in Saturday's 70-21 blowout of Pacific. 

"I don't think it was some­thing that occurred in the UCLA game," Osborne said. "We nursed it along last week in practice." 
Frazier missed practice last Monday, then ran full speed on Wednesday only to have the soreness return the next day. Osborne gave Frazier the op­tion of playing against Pacific, and the junior wanted to go in for at least the early series. 
"He did not get hit on the leg," Osborne said. "As far as I can tell, he never was hit any­where hard on Saturday." · 
But a trip to the hospital for tests Sunday resulted in discov­ery of the clot. Medication was started, and by Tuesday morn­ing the clot had been reduced by 40 percent to 50 percent, Osborne said. 
''I'm not even speculating at this point what action we'll be taking," Osborne said. 
Getting Frazier healthy and deciding when he could return to the field was the key, Osborne said. 
He also was concerned whether Frazier would have to remain on blood-thinners, which could prevent him from playing due to the risk of inter­nal injury and bleeding. 
Nebraska's medical staff has been in contact with several NFL teams to discuss treatment and length of recovery for such injuries. Osborne said there have been several situations, ranging from one Green Bay player being forced out for six weeks to other players on blood-thinners early in the week, then be taken off late in the week and allowed to play. 
"We're not going to do any­thing that's not recommended medically," Osborne said. 
In the meantime, Osborne said his staff and team have "full confidence" in Frazier's back­up, junior Brook Berringer. He will make his frrst career start Saturday against Wyoming in Lincoln. 
Berringer threw for three touchdowns and ran for an­other against Pacific. He is the only scholarship quarterback left on the roster. 
Safety Tony Veland, converted from quarterback after a series of injuries, is practicing again at that position. 
Also available are sophomore Matt Turman, freshman Adam Kucera and freshman Ryan Held. Kucera, who played quar­terback in high school at Lake Havasu City, Ariz., started fall camp as a student manager. 



Peace Corps Invites You to Attend 
Wednesday, September 28 Information Table Hesburgh Library 9:00-3:00p.m. Information Session 7:00-9:00p.m. Montgomery Theatre LaFortune Hall 
Thursday, September 29 Information Table Hesburgh Library 9:00-3:00p.m. 
Post Graduate Career Fair 7:00-10:00 
To schedule an interview on October 11 or 12, contact the Placement Office at 631-5200. Or Contact the Chicago Area Peace Corps Office at 1-800-424-8580 ext. 106. 

Wednesday, September 28, The Observer • SPORTS page 13 


Hurricanes give QB second look 

By STEVEN WINE Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
Miami Hurricanes quarter­back Frank Costa is getting a second chance this time. 
Miami's loss at Florida State in the fifth game last year cost Costa his starting job, and he became a scapegoat for the team's disappointing season. 
Costa regained the No. 1 job last spring, and in the wake of Saturday's 38-20 loss to Washington, he remains firmly entrenched as the Hurricanes' quarterback. He'll start again Saturday when No. 13 Miami (2-1) plays at Rutgers (2-2). 
''I'm glad I have that oppor­tunity," Costa said Tuesday. "Last year made that loss stick in my head a little bit longer, because I never really got a 

Opportunity
Innovation 

ZS Associates is a rapidly growing, entrepreneurial management consulting firm driven by creativity and enterprise. Just 10 years old, we work in 49 countries, employ 125 professionals, and have offices on both sides of the Atlantic. 
We combine our knowledge of sales and marketing issues with sophisticated analytical techniques and innovative software tools to provide clients with real-world solutions. 
ZS offers career opportunities to talented people who want to make a difference. If you want the challenge of early responsibility, significant client contact, and an environment that rewards motivation and ingenuity, then consider joining our team. 
• 
Business Associates work as integral parts of the ZS consulting team to address a client's sales force or marketing issues. As a BA you will be involved in collecting and analyzing data as well as developing creative client solutions. BA's typically have bachelors degrees in Business, Economics, Political Science, Mathematics or History, though other majors are also considered. 

• 
Operations Research Associates build mathematical models and optimization algorithms to develop creative solutions for sales and marketing problems. As an OR Associate, you will perform statistical analysis and design simulations using workstations and personal computers. Qualifications include a bachelors or masters degree in Industrial Engineering, Operations Research, Statistics, or Mathematics. 

• 
Programmer Analysts work interactively with project teams on all aspects of database development. As a PA you will be responsible for maintaining ZS' systems, as well as creating new internal processes and tools. Qualifications include a bachelors degree in Computer Science or MIS. 


On Campus Presentation  
Sound interesting?  Monday, October 3, 1994  
Come and learn morel  7:00 PM-9:00 PM  
Student Center  
LaFortune Room  

zs 
CHICAGO • PRINCETON • LONDON 
chance to go out there and make up for it. After that game I was benched for the rest of the year. 
"This is an opportunity for me to go out and play right away and make up for it." . 
Coach Dennis Erickson gave Costa a passing grade in the stunning loss to Washington, which ended Miami's NCAA­record 58-game winning streak at the Orange Bowl. 
In the second half, when the Hurricanes were outscored 35­6, Costa completed just 10 of 27 passes with two interceptions. But the first interception -re­turned for a touchdown -oc­curred after the intended re­ceiver fell down, and the sec­ond interception was a tipped pass that Costa threw as he was hit. 
Miami twice had to settle for a field goal following first-and­goal situations. Erickson said the Hurricanes should have run more near the end zone, and he declined to criticize Costa. 
"He made good decisions for the most part, and he made a couple of bad decisions," Erickson said. "I thought he played very well." 
After what happened last year, Costa appreciates the vote of confidence. 
"I look at my own perfor­mance, and I could have done some things better," he said. "But I'm not disappointed in myself." 
Costa's best moment came at the end of the first half. He threw a bomb that A.C. Tellison dropped, robbing Miami of a 51-yard touchdown. So on the next play, Costa threw long down the other sideline to Yatil Green for a score. 
This season Costa has com­pleted 43 of 85 passes for 724 yards with s1x touchdowns and four interceptions. Perhaps 10 of his passes have been dropped. 
"My goal was to go 12-0, and 
obviously that's not going to 
happen," Costa said. "But by 
no means is the season over. 
Remember that back in 1989 
we lost to Florida State and 
went on to win the national 
championship. 
"The season isn't over." 
And this year, Costa gets to 
keep playing. 
If you see sports happening,call The Observer at 631-5323 
COLORADO 
...... 

NOBODY DOES SKI BREfiKS B TYEA! 
"" . _} .. ~~'"·. ~ ·.....
---·-~-~-----'-------------'-_,,_ 



• WOMEN'S IHfERHAU. 





Ducks seek win, respect 
By CHUCK CAMOSY Sports Writer 
Howard enters their first in­terhall contest with something to prove. Noticing that they bring up the rear in this week's poll, one might write off the Ducks before they are given a chance. Senior right guard Lynn Quenan cites a solid run­ning attack and steady line play on both sides of the ball as rea­sons for Howard to gain respect and move up in the polls. 
After a tough loss to Pangborn last week, Badin hopes to get back on track Wednesday. Turnovers and costly mistakes need to be eliminated. Captain Lynn Satanek believes last week's performance wasn't indicative of how well the Attitudes can compete. 
"We are disappointed by the loss, but being ranked eight will allow us to sneak up on some people. Our team spirit and coaching give us a tremendous advantage." 
The game looks to be a com­petitive one because of what's at stake for both teams. And to add fuel to the fire, Badin de­feated Howard in the semi-fi­nals last year. Could this be payback time for the Ducks? We'll know after Wednesday. 
Walsh vs. Breen-Phillips 
The number one team in women's interhall is Walsh. They shut out Cavanaugh last week 18-0, leaving no doubt 
• TENNIS 

Freshmen lead net squads 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame freshman Kelley Olson won the no. 4 singles championship Sunday as the Fighting Irish women's tennis team played at the Harvard Invitational this past weekend. Olson defeated Tu Mai of Tennessee, 6-3, 7-5, in the championship match. 
Notre' Dame had a total of three players advance to flight fmals as junior Holyn Lord lost in the no. 1 championship and freshman Molly Gavin lost in the no. 3 championship. The top Notre Dame team of Wendy Crabtree and Lord lost in the fi­nals of the no. 1 doubles by a 3-6, 6-3, 7-5 score to Tennessee. 
In consolation action, Crabtree won the no. 1 flight championship while the dou­bles team of senior Laura Schwab and Gavin won the no. 1 doubles. 

they belong there. Junior Quarterback Erin Nicholas and Frosh Tailback Boo Whithers lead the potent offense which moved the ball seemingly at will in their last performance. The defense is very experi­enced and proved its worth last Thursday, shutting out a re­sourceful Cavanaugh squad. 
Senior Captain and defensive end Kirstin Esmundson won't let success affect the team's attitude, "We won't underesti­mate B.P. They bring a lot to the table and we must be ready." 
Last week the option killed the Blitz of Breen-Philips as they fell to Lyons. But head coach Bill Gaumond had them put in some hard work this week with an emphasis on stopping the option. 
"We're really coming together as a team after this week's practice," Senior captain Melissa McPike said. 
While there is much young tal­ent like frosh quarterback Diarie Meyers, B.P. looks to senior tailback Wendy Morris both for leadership and touch­downs. 
This is another game with in­teresting stories to watch un­fold. If B.P. has corrected its defensive woes the game should be close. Could we see a number one fall? We'll fmd out Wednesday. 
Pangborn vs. Lyons 

The game versus Pangborn is 
In men's action, the Notre Dame men's squad had three players win singles champi­onships and two teams win. doubles championships at the Tar Heel Invitational this past weekend. 
Sophomore Ryan Simme took the honors in the A Flight with a 6-1, 6-2 win over Han Paino of Richmond in the champi­onship match. On the road to the finals, Simme beat Jordan Murray of Duke, Oliver Mayo of Virginia Tech, Jorge Esqueda of South Carolina, and Nick Walrod of Duke. 
Junior Jay O'Brien won the B Flight singles title with a 6-0, 6-1 win over Dan Russo of George Mason in the finals. Irish senior Jason Pun advanced to the third round of that flight. 
Notre Dame freshman Vijay Freeman won the C Flight title with a 6-3, 6-7, 6-4 win over no longer an easy win for any team this year. They equaled their entire victory total last year with a 12-7 win over Badin last week. The Phoxes gave indications that they are for real. 
"Our young, pumped up de­fense was the key to victory." said junior captain Trish Sorenson. "We are just real ex­cited to play." 
Sorenson lead the offense, scoring both the Phoxes' touch­downs. Boasting a 1-0 record and a number five spot in the polls, Pangborn looks to take a big step on their journey to become one of the elite teams in the league this year. 
Lyons, ranked third, is coming off a 19-12 win over B.P. They are lead by Jenny Laden, whose two touchdowns and all-around play earned her player of the week honors. 
In a battle of highly ranked teams, the Pangborn/Lyons matchup should prove interest­ing. The outcome will certainly give the winner an advantage, and the team that loses will suf­fer their first blemish of the season. 
Interested in acting? Have no experience? Have lots of experience? 
Come to the first organizational meeting of the 
~otre r:Dame Student 9:?layers 
Wednesday, September 28 at 6:15pm in the Dillon Lounge For more info, contact Stephen (255-3545) or Mike (xl644) 
theRobert Morris Gallery 
Limited Editions Fine Art Photo Silverprints Local Artists 
continued from page 16 
senior tailback Lee Becton, thought to be out for another three weeks, may be able to return next week for Notre Dame's matchup with rival Boston College. 
"Lee Becton's condition has improved a lot," Holtz said. "He won't play this week, but I anticipate that he'll be back for Boston College." 

Decorate Your Dorm 
with a black & white poster from an original Silverprint. Also post cards and playing cards available. 
The Old Bag Factory 1100 North Chicago Avenue Goshen, Indiana 46526 • 219-534-5648 
Hours: 9-5 Mon.-Fri.; 9-4 Sat.; Evenings by Apt. 
Becton obtained a hip injury during Notre Dame's 21-20 vic­tory over Michigan State two weeks ago. He did not play against Purdue. 
On the defensive end, Holtz expressed concern about Stanford's big-play offensive capabilities, especially those of quarterback Steve Stenstrom. 
"They present quite a chal­lenge for us on defense," he said. "They put a lot of points on the board. Stenstrom is a great quarterback. He may be the best in the country." 

-~ ~-~-------------­
Wednesday, September 28, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

1-1\, 1'11\ CAL'I\l-1, EM\t-.IEI'IT Ttl£\1\'S\ON I'ERSJNA.U\'{, HERE 1\:l 1Hl '(OU A\3oV\ 1'\E.W, \t-1.\>RCNEO "c\.IOCOLP.iE fRQS\f.D SIJG~R 80MS5". I I LO'Jt. 'EM! 
\ 
DILBERT 
nW.'('RE CRU~CI-I'( ON \1-\E 
0\J\';\DE., ~t.W'( ON \lit-e \K5\D£, Mlll \liE.'< 001-lt 11~'41:: ~ S\~GL£. ~1\JIU>.Ll~GR£0\E.NI ~ 05£"'TI~ ~lThM\1\ TO GET \~TilE WM OF n-IP,\ R\G-1, f\J06'1 TP,st£! t'I.M·MM 
'(e:, \CIOS, '(Q\J'Ll L\1:£ 'E\11 SO t-~.vG\, iOJ wo~~ 13t. 1\\31.£ 1\:l S\T 'STILL! RtMEMSER! 1"1's 
1\\E. CE~EP.L I: GEl PP.\0 TO RECPMME.~D &.CA\J'S£ l'M 
F"-MO\J'S! 


familiarly?  44 Tangent's  &a Bygone platters  
19 Tributary  cousin  69 Those for  
20 Residents of  45 Shenanigans  
Meshed 21 Still  47 Frond holder 49 It makes towels  DOWN  
22 Miss Merkel  plushy  1 Bare skin  
23 Baby food  50 Indy 500  2 Concerning, at  
26 Items that are  advertiser  law  
piled  52 Actress  3Robt.­ 
29 Overwhelms  Thompson  4 Singer Helen  
5 Athletic  
supporter?  
&Against 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Indian leader a Actress Garr 9 Vicinage 


WHP.\ OD '{O\J T\1\~K? ARt: '(OJ flll£D Willi n\E OE'S\RE 10 
EM\JL.,JE litE f>..l'oll) Ef>..l 111E CEREP..l I EN\)ORSE :' \I' 1'\0\, 
I Cf>..l'l RE\>EP,\ 
11-1\S E'IER'I 
'}!:) \-1.\N\J~'S. 


-... 
SCOTT ADAMS 





Recycle

11 Goes down 31 Know-it-all 53 Overeager 60 Letters from 54 Greenish-blue 
Wall Street 
32 Full assemblies 

female ..." 33 Pharyngeal 55 Crank &1 Parmenides's 
birthplace

14 Kind of reality invader 56 Utah's state flower &2 Stop lights 
15 Academic heads 35 "The King-" 

The
57 Adult-to-be 64Como's"­18 Beaver, for one 37 Aforetime 5aSmall cut lmpossible"
23 Turkish bigwig 40 University of 24 In addition Arizona site 25 Art sale item 41 Surrenderer 

Get answers to any three clues
27 Wrap name 46 Last item? 


Observer
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
28 Chafed places 48 Verdun's river 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
30 W.W. II foe 51 Jail-related 

BEFORE YOU HOST YOUR Zero = Zero Alcohol. Especially If you're NEXT PARTY REMEMBER TO: under 21, driving, chemically dependent, on certain medications, or pregnant.
• Offer a choice of non-alcoholic 





ZER®
beverages. 

• Serve food. Food helps you One ., One drink per hour, which sets 
enjoy what you drink without letting the pace for moderate drinking. what you drink get the better of you. 
e)N~ 
AND 
• Encourage your guests to follow the Zero-One-Three rule for Three = No more than three drinks per day, 
alcohol consumption. 

and never daily.

THR~ 
For more information on party planning and non-alcoholic recipes, call the Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education at 631-7970. 

--SPORTS 
Wednesday,September 28, 1994
page 16 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish match featured on national TV 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Evidence of this is the introduc­Sports Writer tion of the College Soccer Weekly Game of the Week, 
For the past decade the inter­which features the top colle­est in soccer in the U.S. has giate soccer programs and been on the rise. It has become broadcasts these match-ups on the number one organized national television. 
sport among children, and in­Tonight, the (5-3) Notre Dame terest in the adult population men's soccer team is one of the has also increased. select teams featured as theySince World Cup '94, this battle (6-2) Wake Forest at growth in popularity among Davidson College in North adults has skyrocketed. Carolina. The game will be 

Co-captain Jean Joseph has helped the Notre Dame soccer pro­gram gain national recognition. 

broadcast on Sports Channel Prime, which is channel 22 in Notre Dame, at 7 p.m. 
Yet, the broadcasting is not the only important aspect of this match-up. The Irish will be facing one of the better teams in the nation. The Demon Deacons have national respect and are members of one of the best soccer conferences, the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
The ACC boasts such power­houses as Virginia, Clemson, North Carolina and Duke. Virginia, Clemson, and North Carolina are all ranked in the Soccer America top ten; No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3 respectively. The Demon Deacons controlled their game against Virginia, earlier this season, before the Cavaliers came from behind to win 3-2. 
Junior forward Eric Brandsma leads the Deacons with five goals and five assists, and senior goalkeeper Mike McGinty leads the defense with a 1.53 goals against average. 
"It's a very important game," midfielder Jason Fox said. "Wake Forest is respected around the nation. Beating them means a lot." 
"Any opportunity to play a top team on national television is a big deal," sweeper Kevin Adkisson added. "We can prove to ourselves and the na­tion that we're ready to win the big games." 
The rewards· from the public­ity are not all in the present. The broadcast allows the Irish to expose their program to the nation. This plays a big role in how the Irish will recruit and rank in the next couple of years. 
"This is very good exposure for the sport and Notre Dame," Fox explains. "High school se-niors will be watching this game and it will be a big help in recruiting." 

Yet, the game will not be easy as the Irish will be without starting forward Tim Oates. Oates received a red card in the game against La Salle last Sunday, and is suspended for two games. . 
"Tim Oates is a great player and scorer in the box," Fox said. "It's a big loss, but we have a lot of good freshman who can step up for us." 
• frurrsAu. 

Holtz rebuts Walsh digs 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Associate Sports Editor 
Lou Holtz is still pretty young, relatively speaking. Pacing up and down the sideline keeps him in good shape and looking healthy. He doesn't have one foot in the grave quite yet. 
But suddenly, the Irish foot­ball head coach is worried about his own funeral. 
"I sure hope I don't have to hire pall bearers when I die," the Irish head coach said in his weekly press conference Tuesday. The statement came in response to comments that Stanford head coach Bill Walsh made in his recently published book, "Rough Magic: Bill Walsh's Return to Stanford Football." 
In the book, Walsh called Holtz, a "spoiled little brat," an accusation with which the Irish coach disagreed. 
"Nobody likes to be called a spoiled brat," Holtz continued. "I don't think that I am. Nobody wants to be disliked, and I don't think I deserve it. But everyone's entitled to their opinion. 
''I'm not spoiled, but I like to get my own way." 
The Irish coach had only praise for Walsh, but he had nothing more to say about the book. 
"He's always handled things with class," Holtz said. "I stand 

and applaud everything he's done and everything he's accomplished. 
"If somebody wants to know what's in the book, they're going to have to talk to Bill Walsh," he continued. "I didn't write the book, and I did not read the book. 
"Maybe the comment came over the fact that they beat us in 1992 and Bill thought I didn't give them enough credit," Holtz said in reference to Stanford's 33-16 upset of the Irish in South Bend two seasons ago. "I have worked hard at a being a gracious loser." 
On a more positive note, 
see HOLTZ I page 14 


I 

of note...
I Women's interhall
I 
~ 
I 
l ~ 
Check inside for results ofThe second week ofwomen's interhall action 
I 
Irish men's and women's tennis 
I sees some key match-ups. tournaments last weekend. 
I ~ -• See page 14 I 
t 
f I 
~ 
• 








