

Tuesday, October 4, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No.27 ~NOTRE DAME·IN ~ 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Editor 
The University's first new men's residence halls in a quarter century will be under­written with gifts from Donald Keough, chairman emeritus of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, and the family of the late Joseph O'Neill, Jr., an emeritus trustee and 1937 Notre Dame alumnus, it was announced last week. 
The Keough and O'Neill gifts are "generous and whole­hearted commitments to the traditions of community and family that underpin student life at the University," said Uni­versity President Father Ed­ward Malloy. 
"When Notre Dame alumni meet," he said, "their first question typically is, 'When did you graduate?' Their second is, 'Where did you live?' The Keough and O'Neill families can take pride in the fact that their names will answer that ques­tion for thousands of future Notre Dame students." 
Construction will begin in the early spring of next year, and the halls are scheduled to house their first residents in the fall semester of 1996. Costs are expected to run approximately $7 million, said Dennis Moore, director of Notre Dame Public Relations and Information. 
The residence halls, to be built on land currently occupied by the University's Burke Memorial golf course, will each house approximately 275 men. The first residents of the new halls will be drawn from Grace Hall, a high-rise residence 

The new dorms which are to be constructed on the Burke Memorial golf course beginning spring of 1995. 
scheduled for conversion to of­come just the second woman fices. Both opening in 1969, with a student residence named Grace and its companion high­for her -the other is Marion rise, Planner Hall, were the last Burke Knott, for whom a wom­men's residences built at Notre en's residence hall is named. Dame. Mrs. Keough and her husband 
On behalf of his family, have also given their names to Keough will underwrite con­the center and chair in Irish struction of Marilyn M. Keough studies, which they established. Hall, named in honor of his Donald Keough, who in 1993 wife, the mother of five Notre retired as president and chief Dame graduates. operating officer of The Coca­
While several buildings on Cola Company, now is chair­campus commemorate married man of the board of Allen & couples, Mrs. Keough will be-Company Incorporated. 
Assaults continue in Eck vicinity 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Editor 
For the third time in four weeks, two students were robbed and assaulted on Courtney Lane near the Eck Tennis Pavilion, said Charles Hurley, assistant director of Notre Dame Security Police. 
The crimes took place last Thursday, September 29, at about 11:20 p.m. Suspects in the case fit the same descrip­tion as those reported in the earlier robberies. 
The area is frequently used as a short cut by the many off­campus students living in the Campus View and Turtle Creek Apartment complexes as they travel back and forth to cam­pus. 
The two male graduate stu­dents were walking separately towards their off-campus homes when they were attacked. The first victim was attacked from behind, and the second was assaulted when he came to the aid of the first vic­tim. No weapon was displayed. 
One victim was robbed of his wallet in the attack, said Hurley. 
One suspect was described as male, white, about 15 to 20 years old, slim build, and wear­ing a blue and white striped hooded sweatshirt, said Hurley. 
The other was described as a 

Two Students Assaulted 
Campus 

s Turllt• Creeli: 
He was chairman of Notre Dame's trustees from 1986­1992, during which time he also served as national chair­man of the University's Strate­gic Moment capital campaign, the most successful fund-rais­ing effort in the history of American Catholic higher edu­~::ation. 
He was the 1993 recipient of the University's Laetare Medal, the most prestigious award given to American Catholics, and was awarded an honorary doctorate by the University in 1985. Elected a trustee in 1978, he also served as chairman of the Sorin Society, which en­courages unrestricted gifts to the University. 
O'Neill Family Hall will be un­derwritten by gifts from the es­tate of Joseph O'Neill, Jr.; from his daughter and son-in-law, Helen and Charles Schwab; and from his son, Joseph O'Neill III. 
Joseph O'Neill, Jr., who would have been 80 years old on October 31, earned a bache­lor's degree in commerce from the University and was a. two­time football monogram win­ner. He was a member of the FBI following service in World War II, then founded O'Neill Properties, Ltd., an oil and in­vestments firm, in Midland, Texas, in 1948. He was active in the firm until his death in 1991. 
President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association in 1956, he was elected the following year to the University's advisory board of lay trustees. When governance of Notre Dame passed to a newly-constituted board in 1967, he became one of its charter members and served in that role until his election as an emeritus trustee in 1985. 
O'Neill, Jr., also played a lead role in one of the pivotal events in the University's academic advancement in the 1960s. When the Ford Foundation se­lected Notre Dame as one of the five recipients of its challenge grants to promising universi­ties, he served as general chair-
see DORMS/ page 4 



Minority scholarship fund receives grant 
By MARCY DINIUS 
News Writer 
The Minority Engineering Program has received a grant of $150,000 from the Merck corporation that will be used for scholarships to fund 22 minority students in their pur­suit of an engineering degree over the next three years. 
Nine students who qualify as Merck scholars will be award­ed from $2000 to $8000 for three years. Merck awards ranging from $1000 to $2500 will also be awarded to other students involved in collabora­tive engineering programs and the Friends of the MEP mentor program. 
MEP director Joy Vann­Hamilton is working with financial aid director Joe Russo and the Office of Financial Aid in the allocation of the scholar­ship money. 
Merck Senior Vice President and 1961 Notre Dame graduate Joseph Keating said, "The Notre Dame MEP has earned the support of Merck through performance over the past four years. The recruitment and re­tention rates of minority engi­neering students have more than doubled over that period of time." 
"This generous grant will al­low us to help the most deserv­ing of our minority engineering students," said University Pres­ident Father Edward Malloy. "Scholarship aid is our fore­most fundraising policy, and we are pleased that Merck has recognized and generously re­sponded to the urgency of drawing qualified minority stu­dents to the MEP. the College of Engineering and the University itself." 
Students that receive the Merck scholarships are ex­pected to later be recruited by the corporation as possible em­ployees. One student is cur­rently being followed by Merck for hire after she completes graduate school. 
A previous grant of $50,000 from the Merck corporation al­lowed the MEP to hire Vann­Hamilton as its first full-time director. Responsible for developing programs to help students in "getting what they came for," Vann-Hamilton said that she and the program assist students with finding intern­ships, receiving financial aid, and speaking with a general advisor in the program. 
The MEP currently serves 200 students and was estab­lished in 1987 to serve the needs of minority students in the engineering department. 

male, black, about 15 to 20 years old, approximately 5'11", medium build, with some facial hair and wearing a gray sweat­shirt. Both suspects may have fled in a full size, burgundy automobile. 
Hurley urged students to use caution when walking in the perimeter areas of campus. 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, October 4, 1994 


Where arrogance and egos flourish 
Stanford University is a despicable place. So EDWARD IMBUS when the sun set on News Copy Ediror Saturday, my satisfac­tion could not be held down, as my tab at the Linebacker proved. 
My extreme distaste for that disreputable institution did not begin when Stanford sur­prised the Irish two years ago with an upset, but the year prior, when I witnessed an event I doubt I will ever forget, much less forgive. 
It was my freshman year in college. My parents had won tickets to the Stanford-Notre Dame game, and so the three of us drove north to Palo Alto for the game. 
I wasn't a student at Notre Dame then; it would be another year before I was allowed to transfer from UC Santa Cruz, to transform into a Fighting Irishman from a Fighting Banana Slug. But being raised on Notre Dame games made me a die-hard Irish fan. 
The game was fme; the Irish beat the Cardinals 42-26. What led me to hold this near-sinful hatred of Stanford was their half­time performance. In it, the Stanford drum major dressed up like a nun and twirled a large gold cross while prancing around our cheerleaders. It degraded the Sisters of the Holy Cross and Catholicism in a way that made an immediate knot in my stomach. 
The ND crowd was angry. My dad said that if such a scene had been done against Islam, the little cretin would still be playing checkers with Salmon Rushdie. He was right. As a result, Father Beauchamp ordered that the Stanford band be banned from campus for an indefmite period of time. 
When Bill Walsh was hired, I thought that perhaps things would change. After all, he had coached the "good guys" of the 49ers for as long as I could remember. This past week, my hopes were dashed when he called Lou, a man who also praises his opponents without exception, a "spoiled little brat." To hell with Walsh. Well known universities are supposed to be represented by professionals acting with honor, not by little men who forget that nega­tive things are better left unsaid. 
I blame Stanford for Walsh's error in judge­ment. It is a university with great minds har­nessed by materialism and snobbery, where respect for anyone other than themselves is as scarce as their water. I couldn't be paid to go there, much less be willing to pay their outra­geous tuition. 
And two years ago it was reported why 85 percent of their students had GPA's of 3.5 or more. Not by the blessing of intellect, but by grade inflation. Students are allowed to with­draw from a class without any record or penalty, and then taken the class again the next semester, or the semester after that if needed. 
My animosity comes not from jealousy or a resentment of their academic arrogance in California alone, but from their irreverence and disregard for the values which others hold dear to their hearts and deem intrinsic to their minds. After all, tolerance is a virtue of the intellect. 
The continued existence of Stanford University is an offense to simple decency and civilization as a whole. They may have a nuclear reactor and other pretty toys of a graduate utopia, but they have forgotten what it means to uphold the very humanity which college life professes to extol and embody. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News Dave Ring Gwendolyn Norgle Sports Tim Sherma Dave Treacy Viewpoint  Production Tom Roland Belle Bautista Accent Mary B. Good Graphics Jill Harris  


• Wmii.J) AT A GLANCE 
Locks failed, storm tore off door in ferry sinking 
TURKU, Finland Video shows Jocks failed on ferry doors findings, five major Scandinavian Banging thunderously in a violent shipping companies, including the
Videotapes sent up by robots from the wreck of the ferry Estonia storm, the huge front cargo door of :~-::,e~~a':":.;!.~,~~~~~~e~,~~~s:;:;,~e"c."rgo door was npped off and the Estonia's owner Estline, said they 
the ferry Estonia was ripped off 
after its locks failed, letting in tons of water that sank the vessel, inves­tigators said Monday. 
The crew probably was helpless to save the ship and the more than 900 people who died in the tragedy last Wednesday, according to a pre­liminary conclusion based on video images sent up from the wreck by robots. 
Eerie images of twisted metal, broken windows, unused lifeboats and even wafting newspapers flick­ered on a screen as investigators 
Front cargo door ~~~~~~~~~sd;:~ ~r~~~~~n '",, the ferry had separated
from the ship. The door has notbeantound. 
This door, which doubles as a ramp for vehicles, had 
~~en~~~='ro~':~~~~~~~~~:~~~:r~u:~=~~~~~~~ecardeck. 
described their findings from the"""~ lnlo~UonaiManU~O"""'wulon,SoaUnk 
would weld shut the bow doors of 
other ferries. The boats could still 
load vehicles through the stern. 
The conclusions Monday con­
firmed reports by survivors and 
speculation by experts that the 
bow door -a visor that swings up 
to let vehicles disembark -had 
leaked or broken off from the ship. 
"The bow visor has become 
detached from the vessel as a 
result of the failure of the bow 
visor locking devices," the commis­
sion said in a statement. 
Speaking at a news conference, 
A 
Karppinen speculated that during 
wreck lying 230 feet below the Baltic Sea's surface. the storm, "the bow door opened, swung up and then 
"There's really nothing the crew could've done," said banged down hard. This may have happened several Tuomo Karppinen, a member of the investigatory com-times." mission. "It would've been too late." The videotape, recorded from images sent up by the 
The nine-member commission still must determine two Sea Owl robots, also showed a problem with the why the locking devices on the 60-ton front cargo door bow's inner door, which doubles as a ramp that is low­failed. Karppinen speculated there likely was a problem ered to let in vehicles. before the ferry sailed out of harbor in Tallinn, Estonia, The watertight ramp is still in place, but there was a into the storm, headed for Stockholm, Sweden. 3-foot gap along its top edge, which allowed water to flow 
Swedish police launched a criminal investigation onto the car deck, the statement said. Monday looking for possible negligence in the disaster, "The water inflow through the partly dislodged for-the Swedish news agency TT reported. ward ramp had been of sufficient magnitude to result in 
Within minutes of the announcement of Monday's a lack of stability and the capsizing of the ferry," it said. 
Sick Pope still has control of Church Daughters of smokers predisposed 
Despite doubts about his health and his future as a global traveler, Pope John Paul II still has full control over the major decision that will shape the church of the future. It is the naming of two dozen new Roman Catholic car­dinals who will be among the men who will elect his successor. The issue has come into the forefront as the 7 4-year­old pontiff appears increasingly frail. 
VATICAN CITY WASHINGTON 

The daughters of women who smoke during pregnancy -but not the sons -may be biologically predisposed to smoke, a new study contends. It suggests prenatal nico­tine "primes" a fetus' brain. Animal studies have shown prenatal nicotine does affect certain brain activity once the animal is grown. But scientists never pursued that link in humans because no one had ever found a relation­ship between children's tendency to smoke and prenatal exposure -until now. "What this really shows is there 
may be subtle effects on brain function that won't be­
During his 16-year papacy, John Paul has named 79 of the 98 cardinals eligible to vote in a conclave to elect a pope. The pontiff has chosen many of those men in his image as a conservative interested in social justice. It is impossible to predict how the cardinals might vote once locked in to the Sistine Chapel. But Vatican insiders are certain that the pope will name yet another group of car­dinals by the end of the year, a move that will heavily increase the odds that one of "his men" will be the next leader of the Church. 

Clinton asked about inmate's claim 
WASHINGTON 
The Supreme Court asked the Clinton administration today for its views in the case of a former prison inmate who says he was disciplined to stifle his allegation that he sold marijuana to Dan Quayle. The court asked Justice Department lawyers to comment on Brett Kimberlin's bid to revive his claim that federal officials violated his rights. The government's response could take months. A lower court dismissed Kimberlin's lawsuit after ruling that he had no direct evidence that his discipline resulted from an improper motive. Kimberlin was released from prison last February after serving 14 years for drug conspiracy and eight Indiana bombings. In 1988, he held in the federal prison. 
come apparent until 13, 14, 15 years later," said Dr. Denise Kandel of Columbia University. "It's another rea­son women shouldn't smoke." Teen-age girls were four times more likely to smoke if their mothers smoked while pregnant, a risk that remained even when researchers controlled for social influences, Kandel reported in Tuesday's American Journal of Public Health. 
Kandel theorized that nicotine, which can cross the pla.: centa barrier, stimulates a fetus' receptors for dopamine, the brain chemical involved With drug addiction. 

Gerber recalls 10 million pacifiers 
FREMONT, Mich. 
Gerber Products Co. is recalling 10 million pacifiers that pose a choking danger because the nipple could break off in a child's mouth The clip that holds the nipple to the mouth shield handle is defective, spokeswoman Nancy Lindner said Monday. The company said it had received about two-dozen reports of the pacifier separat­ing. No injuries were reported, the company said The recall affects NUK Orthodontic Pacifiers manufactured between July 1, 1993 and June 30, when the company changed the design and began writing "new" on the package. The pacifiers were sold in single and multiple packages at a cost of $1.29 to $4.99 NUK Orthodontic Pacifiers distributed by hospitals are not involved in the recall. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
r=~~~~~~~~------------------~ 
The Accu-Weather~t forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 4. 


Rae Sikula Mike O'Hara 

The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All repwduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta  72  64  Dallas  91  68  New Orleans86 71  
Baltimore 70  48  Denver  73  48  New York  6743  
Boston  63  42  Los Angeles 7 4 65  Philadelphia 67 47  
Chicago  63  53  Miami  89  78  Phoenix  9372  
Columbus69  48  Minneapolis 53 48  St. Louis  6441  



r--------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, October 4, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page3 
Multicultural Fall Festival begins activities 
McNeill leads fireside chat as students share service project stories 
Artist displays photography 
By KAREY GILMORE News Writer 

Last night Saint Mary's began it's Multicultural week with a presentation by photog­rapher Kay Westhues. 
The exhibit shows Cuban people on the Malecon walk, a popular social gathering place on the sea wall in Havana. Ac­cording to Westhues, she want­ed to use the portraits to show the similarities between the Cuban and American cultures on the everyday level. 
The pictures are of couples sharing intimate moments, groups of young people smil­ing, people with their arms around each other. Westhues hopes to relate the message that our two cultures are, in fact, not so different, she said. 
Westhues let the people she photographed decide for them­selves "how they wanted to be presented to the camera," she said, allowing for an accurate representation of the Cuban people. 
Westhues also said that Cuban artists have had an effect on her personally. During the presentation she showed slides of several of her favorite artists, commenting on how she admired their use of the "conceptual to describe their society." 
According to Westhues, she is an avid proponent of the artistic culture of Cuba, and she is also deeply involved with the people of this third world country. She is active in trying to lift the trade embargo against it, she said. 
Westhues showed slides of her photographs taken while she followed the March 1994 US-CUBA Friendship Caravan. The caravan consisted of seven school buses full of people, school supplies, and over $150,000 in medical supplies illegally smuggled into Cuba. 
"We did it without license to do the greatest good. We felt the law was not applicable morally," she said. 
Westhues said that she en­compassed this attitude into art. According to Westhues, art should be socially aware. Many of her favorite artists, she said, are those that have the ability to combine social awareness and beauty. She showed slides of another col­lection that she said showed this awareness in respect to racial prejudice, her lawn jockey exhibit. 
This work is a collection of photographs of lawn jockeys found within a 50 mile radius of her home, which evolved from the stereotype of the Cuban black. Included are quotes from the owners and pieces of information on the history and development of the statues. Westhues said that she wanted to use these images to let people decide for them­selves if there was anything wrong with the stereotype they often subsequently create. 
She said that she hoped the exhibit "made people think about the work without telling them how to think about the work." She said this was hard to do in trying to make a politi­cal statement. 
According to Westhues, as an artist, saying something is im­portant. 
"Every artist has something to say whether they say they do or not," she said. 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
News Writer 
Cross cultural service projects are more of a multicultural ex­perience than just an opportu­nity to serve, according to Fr. Don McNeill. 
As part of t h e Multicultural Fall Festival, Fr. Don McNeill, of the Center 


for Social c0 n cern s • Fr.Don McNeill led a fireside C.S.C. chat yester­day afternoon. During the talk several Notre Dame students shared their experiences of participating in service projects in other countries. According to McNeill, stu­dents who serve in multicul­tural communities gain "an ap­preciation of people's gifts and culture." "They return with a sense of unity and community because of multicultural service," he 




said. 

Senior Katie Glynn, who trav­eled to Latin America in the first semester of her sophomore year, talked about her experi­ences in Mexico and Chile. According to Glynn, in Mexico, she felt for the first time what it was like to be a minority. 
"It was a humbling experi­ence," she said, "not knowing the history, language, not knowing how to communicate" with the people of the commu­nity in which she was working. Glynn's participated in an in­terniship and service project. Her work included "going out with government workers to see what people needed." 
According to Glynn, in writing up reports, she realized she "needed a basic level of under­standing" about these commu­nities. 
In Chile, Glynn worked with adolescent mothers and fa­thers. She said that, although she was living and working with people who were very dif­ferent from herself, the "com­ing together" of "the language of all of our history, culture, and understanding of the world...was a beautiful, but challenging struggle." 
Junior Isaac Duncan III,also a service project returnee, spoke about his own experience dur­ing a service project he partici­pated in located in Immokalee, Florida. 
Duncan, who lived and worked with migrant workers for a week, described the con­ditions under which he worked. He said he and the migrant workers awoke before dawn and waited for a bus which drove Duncan and the migrant workers over an hour and a half away to fields in which they worked all day. 
They rarely received a lunch break, according to Duncan, and they were paid according to the number of crates of tomatoes they filled, which was not an hourly wage. 

"It was no more than a dollar a crate," according to Duncan. 
He said that his experience "gave me inspiration, some­thing to go out and seek more of." According to Duncan, "col­lege is not only book-learning. It's going out and informing yourself through the commu­nity." 
After the students shared their experiences, McNeill spoke of the "joy" he has seeing students "go out to settings like this and watch it transform their lives." 
A video was, also, shown at yesterday's fireside chat. The video featured "L'Arche," a non-denominational communi­ty that provides homes for peo­ple with developmental handi­caps. 
The discussion, entitled," Unity through Community: Cross Cultural Experience through Service," was held in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center. 





'IME: 
9 month-12 month Leases 
Furnished Apartments, All Utilities Covered, Central Air 
Leasing Now for August 1995 

Make your apartment selection early! 
These apartments will feature the high..-efficiency, energy..-saving heat pump. 



~------­

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, October 4, 1994 
US raids Haitian headquarters Cardoso leading in 
By JEFFREY ULBRICH 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti In the most dramatic strike yet at Haiti's ruling military, 
U.S. soldiers raided the headquarters of a hated pro­army militia Monday, seizing weapons and arresting more than three dozen people. 
A joyous crowd of Haitians gathered to cheer the Ameri­cans. As the soldiers pulled away from the paramilitary headquarters, the Haitians surged forward in a jubilant mass and gleefully trashed the place, smashing everything they could lay hands on. 
"We love you! We love you!" Haitians shouted at the soldiers who had raided the headquar­ters of the Front for the Ad­vancement and Progress of Haitia, known as FRAPH. 
The club-wielding demonstrators smashed furni­ture and beat on mattresses, water bottles, refrigerators, telephones -anything associ­ated with FRAPH. 
One man even turned his anger on a stapler, repeatedly throwing it to the ground. 
The raid came hours after Haitians in the southwestern town of Les Cayes shot and wounded a U.S. Special Forces soldier -the second American casualty since U.S. troops ar­
Dor01s 
continued from pagel 
man of the fund-raising cam­paign that successfully met the foundation's challenge. 
Helen O'Neill and Charles Schwab were married in 1972 and have two children. Charles Schwab is chairman of the board and chief executive offi­cer of The Charles Schwab Corporation. The Schwabs are the founders of the Parent's Education Research Center, a nonprofit foundation providing guidance to the parents of chil­dren with learning disabilities. Helen Schwab is also a mem­ber of the boards of the San Francisco Symphony and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. 
Joseph O'Neill III graduated from Notre Dame exactly 30 years after his father, in 1967 with a bachelor's degree in fi­nance. He earned an MBA de­gree from the University of Michigan the following year and in 1972 joined O'Neill Properties, of"which he is now managing partner. 
O'Neill III served as president of the Notre dame Alumni As­sociation in 1992-93 and was a ex offical member of the Uni­versity's trustees from 1991­
93. He currently is a member of the advisory council for the College of Engineering. O'Neill and his wife, Jan, have two children. 

·.::.::::<:::1{ ··:?:-. 
• An American soldier was shot and wounded Monday in Las Cayes. He was the second Amencan wounded since 
U.S. troops arrived two weeks ago. 
• 300 soldiers from six Caribbean nations are scheduled to arrive Monday to form an International peacekeeping 
force. 

• 1.800 U.S. Marines in Haiti will begin to withdraw. 
rived two weeks ago. 
The wounded soldier was being treated at the 28th Combat Support Hospital in Port-au-Prince and "his prog­nosis is great," said Lt. Gen. Hugh Shelton, U.S. commander in Haiti. 
There was no indication the raid was in response to the shooting. 
Rather, it seemed part of a more aggressive effort by the United States to pave the way for the return of exiled Presi­dent Jean-Bertrand Aristide. 
As recently as Friday, the Americans stood back while FRAPH members shot and killed pro-Aristide demonstra­tors. 
If that demonstration of re­serve disappointed many Haitians, Monday's muscle­flexing went a long way toward repairing the damage. 
Gaily Droit, a student watch­ing the joyous smashing of FRAPH headquarters and the adjoining Normandie Bar, a FRAPH hangout, was anxious that the world viewed the scene for what it was. 
"To get rid of something evil is good," he said. "But we don't want to loot these things. 
We Haitians are not thieves. This is spontaneous. It is not to steal this material, it is to de­stroy it." 
After letting the people smash and break for an hour or so, a small military patrol returned and took up positions near the FRAPH headquarters. 
The raid began in late morn­ing when American troops sur­rounded the FRAPH headquar­ters with tanks and humvees. 
About 100 Army soldiers were involved in the operation, according to Brig. Gen. George Close. Forty people from the scene remained in military cus­tody later Monday, military spokesmen said. 
"Everybody just stuck their hands up and basically just gave up," Close said. 
The Americans seized several machine guns and Uzi auto­matic weapons, as well as ma­chetes, clubs and other weapons. 
The detainees were searched outside the FRAPH headquar­ters. A female soldier searched four Haitian women and, in one case, pulled a loaded pistol magazine from a bra. 
The crowd watched and cheered as 10 bound-and­gagged Haitian police officers were driven away in the back of a truck. The Americans later determined that the police "had no hostile intent" and they were taken to their bar­racks. 
The civilian detainees were kept in custody, however. In a briefing earlier in the day, Shelton had said that Haitians who are detained will be held until they can be turned over to the legitimate government when it is restored. 
That could be soon. Under a 
U.S. agreement with the mili­tary coup leaders, they have until Oct. 15 to step down. 
Shelton defended the earlier, hands-off posture of American soldiers, going so far as to say that the U.S. deployment Friday -when Americans protected the road to the upper-class suburb of Petionville while FRAPH members shot demon­strators a few blocks away ­was "a textbook operation." 
Asked why the U.S. hadn't re­sponded, he said: "Our focus must remain long-term.... We must not become the enemy in Haiti." 
11:fASTE. OF:~'NATIONS 
Fri. Oct 7 


8pm~J2am St~pan Center 




Brazilian elections 
By PETER MUELLO 
Associated Press 

RIO DE JANEIRO 
The man who tamed Brazil's inflation led a lop-sided presi­dential race Monday in the country's biggest national elec­tion ever. 
Final polls released before voting began gave the front­runner, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, 48 percent of the vote. 
His closest rival, socialist Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, had 22 percent. Four other candi­dates together had 17 percent, and 14 percent of those sur­veyed were undecided or cast blank votes. The margin of error was 3 percent. 
More importantly, the polls showed Cardoso winning 9 per­cent more votes than the seven other candidates combined, ­enough to win on the first bal­lot. If no candidate gets a majority, the top two vote-get­ters will face a runoff on Nov. 
15. Main issues were the econ­omy, hunger and urban vio­lence in this country of 160 mil­lion, Latin America's largest. 
From the Amazon to the southern pampas, Brazilians flocked to the polls. The elec­tion is the first since Fernando Collar de Mello won the first free ballot in 30 years in 1989, only to resign in disgrace three years later after being im­peached for corruption. 
A record number of voters, 95 million, were eligible to vote for a record number of political posts. Besides president, voters were choosing 27 state gover­nors, 54 of 81 Senate seats, all 513 lower house deputies and 1,059 state legislators. In all 11,964 candidates were run­ning, only 6 percent of them women. 
First exit polls were expect­ed late Monday, and official results were not expected until Tuesday. The surge in Cardoso's popularity comes from the stunning success of the economic stabilization plan he drew up as finance minister before quitting to run for presi­dent. 
The Real Plan, named after the new currency it created on July 1, cut monthly inflation from 50 percent in June to 1.5 percent in September, restored credit and led to a huge in­crease in consumer spending. 
Cardoso voted Monday at a public school in Sao Paulo, Brazil's biggest city. Supporters waved banners and chanted "He's already won!" 
Lula cast his ballot in Sao Bernardo do Campo, asuburb of Sao Paulo. He kissed his bal­lot five times and said he was confident he could muster enough votes to force a runoff. 
"If voters aren't careful, they'll put a fox in charge of the henhouse," he warned, referring to the conservative coalition that backs Cardoso. 
But polls show Brazilians put their faith in the scholarly senator and the economic plan he devised as fmance minister. The dramatic check on hyper­inflation in a country where one-third of the people live in poverty convinced many Brazilians that Cardoso is a "miracle man." 

HOLY CROS~ ~fiSSION IN M0~1'£RI£Y, 1\fEXICO 
January 5-12 

A CROSS-CULTURAL SEMINAR (ONE THEOLOGY CREDIT) 
Informational Meeting 
October 5 
7 P.M. 

Center for Social Concerns For additional information call: Fr. Pat Neary, c.s.c. 
1-7800 


The Observer Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vitai source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.  Make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer PO BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $60 for one academic year. D Enclosed is $35 for one semester. Name Address City ______ State ____ Zip _____  


~----~-----~----~ 

r--------~-~--~ ----~-~­
Tuesday, October 4, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• SAINT MARY'S Srum:rn ACT!VmES BOARD • SAtNT MARY's BoARD m= GmrERNDRS • CAMPUS liFE COUNCIL 


Greg Brady to visit 
By BECKY MAYERNIK 
News Writer 
The appearance of Barry Williams , better known as Greg from "The Brady Bunch," on Saint Mary's campus was approved by the members of Student Activities Board (SAB) yesterday evening. 
The members of SAB were enthusiastic about the event, which is planned for March 30 in Carroll Auditorium. It was Speaker Series Chairperson Laura Boeckman's idea to bring Williams to Saint Mary's. Ac­cording to Boeckman, Carroll is already booked for that date and Williams will be confirmed this week. 
There will be a combined ef­fort between SAB, Board of Governance (BOG), and Resi­dence Hall Association (RHA) of putting out a newsletter of ev­erything that is going on at Saint Mary's. A letter is being sent out to the department heads, BOG, RHA, the different hall organizations, and the sporting teams. This will give them an opportunity to publi­cize their events in the newsletter, according to Newsletter Chairperson Roberta Hines. 
"Most of the events on cam­pus aren't publicized as well as they should be," said Hines. "This newsletter will be helpful so that students can be aware of things that are of interest to them." 
The newsletters will be avail­able starting in November, ac­cording to Hines. 
"Hopefully students will be more likely to read something that they pick up on their own, and can have more of an opportunity to learn what is going on," said Hines. 
According to Hines, the re­sponsibilities of this newsletter are being shared by herself, Emily Miller of BOG, and Amy Kramer of RHA. 
In other SAB news: 
•SAB will hold the movie marathon this weekend once again. Among the movies play­ing are "Heaven and Earth", "Like Water For Chocolate" and "The Last Emperor". Th~ cost will be $1 per movie, and will be playing in Carroll Audi­torium. 

SAINT MARY'S SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM OPEN TO ALL ND/SMC STUDENTS 
CHALLENGING ACADEMIC PROGRAM FOCUSING ON THE ASIAN WORLD 16 SEMESTER CREDITS APPLICABLE TOWARDS CORE OR MAJOR REQUIREMENTS 
OPPORTUNITY TO TRAVEL AND STUDY IN MANY COUNTRIES OF FAR EAST, SOUTHEAST ASIA, SOUTH ASIA, EASTERN AND WESTERN EUROPE. 
COST: A SEMESTER'S SMC TUITION ROOM 
&BOARD ' PLUS A SURCHARGE. 
INFORMATION MEETING WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1994. 7 P.M. HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: DR. C. PULLAPILLY MADELEVA 336.SMC. 284-4468/4474 
Video camera approved 
By EMILY RUFFNER News Writer 
Board of Governance (BOG) approved the Senior Board's proposal to purchase a video camera for the student body's use. 
BOG will purchase the cam­era with the condition that if the camera is widely used over the school year, the Senior Board will purchase an addi­tional camera as their Senior Gift. If the camera does not prove to meet the students' needs, the Senior Class will simply reimburse BOG for the cost of the camera. 
Purchase of the camera will leave "every class to have a Se­nior Video. It will be a gift to each senior to remember their se~or year and Saint Mary's," said Hellrung. 
BOG members raised con­cerns about the responsibility for repairs of the camera, regu­lation of the use of the camera and whether students would b~ charged to borrow the camera. 
After discussion, it was de­cided a deposit would be re­quired to sign out the camera. If the camera is not returned on time, the deposit would be kept by Student Activities, who will decide the check-out proce­dures. Any money kept will go toward repairs and mainte­nance of the camera. Clubs signing out the camera will be held responsible for any major damages. 
BOG was in favor of this test year of a student body video camera, and they will measure the success rate by the number of students using the video. 
Other BOG news: 

• 
A proposal for a $75 dona­tion toward Founders' Week was asked by Amita Mukerjee, public relations/alumnae com­missioner. The proposal was unanimously approved. 

• 
The Haggar Renovation Survey will be circulating the dining hall next week Wednes­day and Thursday during lunch a~d dinner hours. The survey will ask for students' input about making Haggar College Center a more attractive social space. 

• 
Meggan Awe, one of Dal­loway's Coffeehouse Managers, spoke of the success of their opening night with True North. Dalloway's will be open Mondays 7p.m.-10p.m. and Wednesdays & Saturdays 8p.m.-12p.m. Awe is looking for bands, poets, and anyone who wants to read at the Coffe­house. Mondays will be the quietest of the nights, while Wednesdays and Saturdays will be more "band nights," accord­ing to Awe. 


• CAMPUS BRiEFS 
Angelou forced to cancel 
Special to The Observer Mary's College. The perfor­
mance was scheduled for 7:30 
Due to a 
p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. recurring Dr. Angelou plans to reschedule arthritic back her performance for a date as condition, yet to be determined. All tick­Maya Angelou ets for the October 6 date will has canceled be honored for the new date. her Thursday, Further information will be October 6 made available as soon as the performance new date has been scheduled. 
Maya Angelou 

at Saint 
Has Chris O'Hara e;ver made 

fun of you? 

MAKE FUN OF HIM TONIGHT­IT WON'T BE PREITY. 
Because Chris turns twenty-one! 
1O:OOpm-Bridget~ 

Council meets 
By EDWARD IMBUS News Writer 

A proposal to design a pro­gram that would allow students to resell their football tickets to friends or relatives was made by William Kirk, assistant vice president for resident life, at last night's Campus Life Council (CLC) meeting. 
The outline of the proposal, would allow students to trans­fer their tickets to friends, other students, or brothers or sisters without fear of the tick­et bo_?k being confiscated by secunty personnel or ushers. 
The outline as Kirk proposed also aimed to preclude the re­sale of tickets for significant profit. "I don't want students to sell their half price tickets for a huge amount to scalpers or the like," he said. He sug­gested that a sub-committee of the council might want to approach campu~ publications to ask for a halt in student tick­et advertising. 
Presently, if an usher or security discovers a person with a student ticket under false pretenses, both the ID and ticket book are confiscated and the person is removed from the stadium. The ticket book is then given to the Athletic Department Ticket Office, and can only be recov­ere~ by its proper owner by paymg a fine of $84. The issue was sent to a sub committee. 
Kirk also raised the issue of defining proper student con­duct at away football games, after reportedly receiving a "moving, heart-wrenching let­ter about two small children who were unable to see the [Notre Dame] Northwestern game because students were standing in front of them." 
Rich Palermo, co-president of the Hall President's Council (HPC), suggested that the Uni­versity open discussions with ?~her schools for creating a vis­Itmg student section in a place not blocking others' views. 
Hillary Bonenberg, the other 
HPC co-president, urged that 
the CLC use caution in ap­
proaching the student body. 
"If .an open letter is sent, it 
can t be preachy at all, or stu­
dents will disregard it." 

CLC Chairman and Student Body President Dave Hungeling also raised major concerns about recent assaults on Ivy Road near the Turtle Creek Apartments and the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Kirk declined to com­ment on what specific mea­sures were being enacted, but said that "actions are being taken." 
Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
is now accepting applications for its next three entering dasses. (April 1995, September 1995, January 1996) 
General requirements at time ofentry include: 
• 
At least 2-3 years of undergraduate college in a health science or basic science degree program. (Inquire for a complete list of specific requirements.) 

• 
Aminimum G.P.A. of 2.5. (A more competitive G.P.A. is favored.) 

• 
Apersonal interest in a career as a primary care physician. 


North~estern College of Chiropractic offers a rigorous four year professional education. Our focus on science, diagnosis, chiropractic methods, patient care and research provides our graduates with the tools they need to work as pn~ary care physicians in the health care environment NWCC is fully accredited by North Central Association of eou,i" '"d l<hools ..d tho eo•.,;t ~'<I" on Ch1ropract1c Education. ~ 
-

Call: 1-800-888-4777 or 888-4777 ~ Write: Director ofAdmissions W · CAREER <(
e mvite you to join us at ,....._ 2501 West 84th Street, Minneapolis, 11N 55431 "-J
Saturday, October 22 
"Call to make a re5ervation" 




..----~---------~~-~-~-----~ -~ --~---~~----~-~ 

Ifyou are interested 






in learning how to confront oppression, then sign up now! 
The Multicultural Executive Council is offering students, staff and professors the opportunity to participate in this diversity sensitivity workshop: 

THIS WORKSHOP IS BEING PRESENTED BY THE NOTRE DAME AFFILIATE OF THE NATIONAL COALITION BUILDING INSTITUTE 
CONTACT: MICKEY fRANCO • 631-4355 ADELE LA.NAN • 631-7308 
r 
f ~~-·~-----------------------­



VIEWPOINT 
• DESIDERATA 
Demolishing stadium wrecks principles, tradition 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 

''None of us really under­stands what's going on with all these numbers." 
-David Allen Stockman 
On the U.S. budget, 1981 
Tuesday, October 4, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lt does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Genera11nformation 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
page? 
UM ... I 
GUESS~ 
!AJIU... 71115 
TAl<& 
tON67 
\ 

I f)()N'T !MAGIN& 50. M/Nfq[Ef< 
/JRJANNA-.xJHN HAS A Vf.KY 
TIGHT9:J-1EfJUt&. BUT YOU 
5HOUW 5iE3I3 !:?AM~ 5Ht'5 50 
EXOT&/?.' ESPEOAUYWH&N9-I& 
Hf.ARJ/ Ya/1? !3E3H&R. GO/?­
F:47H!3<-JOHN I 
/ 
MOM­MYf' f,(JHAT'5 GOING 
ON 7 

OH, 7H&R& YOU 
AR£,51A/&£3TI&.' 
HI,
R£Mavt/3&R. 
KIP.

MQ11MY!5 /6ENT, 
\

UNa& '3/fJ? 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
HEHAS70 IS 
13£, fKJN. 7Ht31<& IT'S HIS 1WOPffl JOB. ? 
I 

In an ever-changing, fast-paced world it is consoling to know that some things can never change. Our memories are a rich source of stability in this sense and can be even more so when connected with some concrete object-a photo, a letter, even a particular location. And although all fond memories are trea­sures to be cherished, some are espe­cially precious. In my case, many extra­ordinary memories involve the Chicago Stadium. 
Kirsten Dunne 


When I was born my father was work­ing at the Stadium, which, at that time, was the site for popular musical groups to play when they visited the Windy City. My mother. consistent with her out­standing individuality, brought me to numerous concerts there, beginning with the group Chicago when I was only one year old. By the time I was ten, I had seen Elvis Presley, the Village People, Elton John, and Rod Stewart, to name just a few. 
Obviously, I was rare in this respect­other children would come to school dis­cussing who played with whom last night, while I would come in and report that I was tired after a long night at a concert. But these experiences were also profoundly rewarding. Not only was I exposed to all different sorts of music as a child, but to all different sorts of peo­ple. I think that my nonconventional childhood played more than a small role in my development as an accepting, individualistic, free-thinking person, because I learned early on about the 

rralAS NIC£ OF YOU TO CCM& ON 
5UOI5HORTNO­
TIC&, 51/?! /'3N71T 
A !3tAUTIFU/... l7AY FOR. A E3AP77:5M z I 

prevalence and importance of diversity. 
By the time I hit my teens, I knew my way around the Stadium as well as I knew my home. My father had ceased working there full-time but still spent a considerable amount of time there. And although the concerts had relocated for the most part-to newer, larger are­nas-the Chicago Stadium remained the "place to be" for sports fans. 
As an avid follower of the NBA, I spent probably more time at the Stadium dur­ing my teens than I did during my younger years. I met the legendary Michael Jordan as well as countless other famous personalities (not only basketball stars) at the Stadium. I was able to pursue my passion for the Detroit Pistons-an interest which later brought me into contact with the young woman who is now one of my closest friends. I bonded with other basketball fans and established some meaningful relationships. 
In short, I had a lot of good ex­periences at the Chicago Stadium, some of which were truly pivotal, and that place means a great deal to me.l feel like I can speak for thousands of Chicagoans in attesting to the special aura of the Stadium. It has developed character over the years. It has a histo­ry, and could teach future generations things which are worth knowing. It could rightfully be designated a land­mark. And it is about to be demolished. 
The decision to destroy this esteemed building, in my opinion, disparages the city of Chicago and its people. Perhaps it is not unreasonable for the city to want to provide a larger, more modern arena for Chicago's sports teams. After all, the Stadium is one of the oldest are­nas currently used in the NBA. But what is unreasonable, and what I adamantly object to, is the decision to demolish the building. Although I confess ignorance as to what the city plans to do with the space, I doubt that it would make a dif­ference in my opinion, when preserving this special place as a landmark would be in keeping with the wishes of many Chicagoans and would serve to educate future generations. 
In the late 1970s, the United States Supreme Court considered the constitu­tionality of a landmarks preservation law which placed special restrictions on the properties within its ambit. The Court found the law constitutional because, inter alia, it sought to ensure owners of such properties a reasonable return on their investments and "maxi­mum latitude to use their parcels for purposes not inconsistent with the preservation goals." Penn Central Transportation Co. v. City of New York, 
438 u.s. 104. 110 (1978). 

The Court decided that, based on the aggregate facts, the law could constitu­tionally deny the owner of Grand Central Terminal the right to place a 55-story office tower atop the landmark. As stat­ed in a prior hearing by the Landmarks Preservation Commission, "(to) protect a Landmark, one does not tear it down. To perpetuate its architectural features one does not strip them off." 
'lfeellike I can speak for thou­
sands of Chicagoans in attesting to the special aura of the Stadium ... It has a history, and could teach future genera­tions things which are worth knowing.' 
There are obvious distinctions between the Chicago Stadium's plight and the Penn Central scenario-most notably, the Stadium has not even been designated a landmark and thus has no protection under any landmarks law. But some of the underlying concerns in Penn Central speak very clearly to the current situation and suggest why the Chicago Stadium should be protected. 
In the words of my idol, Justice Brennan, there are two primary forces behind laws seeking to protect land­marks: "The first is recognition that, in recent years, large numbers of historic structures, landmarks, and areas have been destroyed without adequate con­sideration of either the values repre­sented therein or the possibility of pre­serving the destroyed properties for use in economically productive ways. 
The second is a widely shared belief that structures with special historic, cul­tural or architectural significance enhance the quality of life for all. Not only do these buildings and their work­manship represent the lessons of the past and embody precious features of our heritage, they serve as examples of quality for today. 'Historic conservation is but one aspect of the much larger problem, basically an environmental one, of enhancing-or perhaps develop­ing for the first time-the quality of life for people.' (Footnotes omitted)" 438 U.S. at 108. 
If the city of Chicago proceeds to demolish its Stadium, it will have failed without a doubt, to consider these over­arching principles. It will disappoint the many of us with special ties to the Stadium and will set a precedent for other cities all over the nation that it is acceptable to destroy places of cultural and historic significance when they are considered too old or too small for their purposes. It will, indeed, do the exact opposite of "enhancing ... the quality of life for people." 
And it will do so primarily because, in the future, our fond memories of the Chicago Stadium will be overshadowed by the sadness and emptiness that will overcome us whenever we pass the lot where that majestic building once stood. 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92. is currently a third-year law student. 
page 8 Tuesday, October 4, 1994



VIEWPOINT 
• lETTERS TO THE Eomm 
Health column dodges morality 
Dear Editor: Ryan Grabow's article, "Be smart, protect yourself' (The Observer Sept. 
20) merits discussion. While I'm sure Grabow means well, his advice falls short of the mark. 
Grabow writes, "Birth control, sex­ually transmitted diseases (STDs), and pregnancy are a reality for us all, whether you're sexually active now or waiting till marriage." Wrong. Birth control, STDs and pregnancy are NOT a reality for those single students who honor family, marriage, themselves and their marriage partner with the tro­phy of virginity. While Grabow dis­cussed STDs, he appeared oblivious to the disease for which he tests pos­itive, political correctness. Because Grabow makes no bow to sexual morality, he dehumanizes his reader by demoralizing him. 
But Grabow's plight is understand­able, political correctness is caught by casual contact, even from activi­ties as ostensibly benign as reading a newspaper. 
Instead of lowering the standard for his reader, Grabow should have elevated the standard. He could have said, "Just as we root for our football team to achieve athletic excellence, we should root for ourselves and each other to achieve moral excel­lence." Can you imagine Grabow say­ing to the football team, "we know you're going to ... throw interceptions (take steroids, miss tackles... ), so when you do, just make sure ... "? Just as their is a better way to ap­proach football, there is a better way than hedonism to approach one's sexual life. 
Instead of dodging the higher issues in life, the article should have addressed them. Understanding the big picture, is motivational to be morally excellent in all areas of life . 
I like to experience the love of God. I like having a clean conscience. There is nothing deficient in God's love toward me to justify less than 100 percent loving obedience toward Him. Sexual self-control and virtue is an appropriate response to the ocean of grace that God gave in His Son, Jesus Christ. It is easier to do the 

~-----~----....., 

right thing when it is done out of a heart of gratitude. Grabow's secular framework not only strips the reader of motivation to be chaste, but also gives a tacit nod to agnosticism and humanism. 
Meaning in life can only be found in God. Let us read our campus pab­ulum with an eye of caution to those articles which advocate anti-God beliefs and behavior. 
PIEDER BEELI Graduate Student in Physics Off-campus 

Student docility 
leads to weak 
health coverage 
Dear Editor: 
I once overheard a professor here remark 
about how docile NO students are. I did not think 
much ofthe commmit until I read the recent 
heart-warming article [The Observer. Thursday, 
Sept, 22,1994] about the ChiJ:tese graduate stu­
dent who was struck by a car in 1989 and, with 
the help of funds raised by students and the on­
going contact with members of the University 
community, :Js no~ able to pronounce simple 
words." 42 
This article suggests our. docility in a few ways. 
1 

First,Jt represents_ the tendency of The 
Observer .to report heart-warming stories without 
as!Qpg the difficultqqestions. Often medical costs 
are met by payments from insurance companies .and f1ot.Jw h~ge f~~d~r~s!11g drives: why is it that the graduate.''student in question had such /POQ1'~1'll,:tllyersity·mandat~d health_ insurance (ifthere was such a thing then}? Some grad11-ate students (and perhaps nnd.er­grads, I don't know} continue to suffer grave ill· ness or injury ®d must still rely on the kindness of others PI", as is more likely, must go into debt 
or bankruptcy because the University health in­
surance plan is so inadequate. Why has the 
University not learned from past tragedies and 
provided us with health care options designed for ·more than the healthy and the pregnant? 
Second,Jt makes :me wonder why it is that we 
graduate students have put up with this state of 
affairs for so long. Perhaps, it's time for us to ad­
dress our docility. 
On the one hand, we ought to acknowledge the 
goodness of those who have helped to ease the 
financial burden of the suffering. But we ought 
also to demand of the University what top-flight 
institutions provide their students: an affordable 
yet comprehensive health care plan. 
TOM RYAN 
1 --Graduate Student in Theology Off..campus 
• IAM Nor A Porreo PLANT 


Lifestyle choices dictate the fate of the unborn 
Abortion isn't wrong because it takes a human life. I guess that makes it wronger, but I don't think that fact is what makes it wrong. Abortion is only the means (a sad means) to achieve a particular lifestyle. We've got to think about the end before we think about the means. That's why "Life starts at con­ception" and related arguments are a bit misdirected (and ineffectual). 
One need not be a total skeptic about the way we humans reason to note that in practice we often decide what we'll end up thinking before we think it. When President Clipton starts talking, I follow Bush's advice and reach for my wallet (no, not really, but I might as well). That may explain why a whole lot of people distrusted his health care plan before he said one word about it. I'm not holding up my personal biases as a model for humanity, but I would suggest that we humans usually function by thinking through to some general beliefs, and then applying these beliefs to situations as they arise. We don't often think things through from scratch. 
I think this is also true of beliefs about disputed factual questions (even scientif­ic facts). In 1983, when Eugene Hasenfus got shot down over Nicaragua, Reagan denied that he was a U.S. agent, and I believed him (fool that I was). In the same way, I think that the idealogy of pro-choicers, especially militant femi­nists (but also those who style them­selves anti-Biblethumpers), makes them rather impervious to our biological arguments against abortion. You can't make a fundamentalist believe in evolu­tion by showing them a bunch of fossils, and you can't convince a pro-choicer by showing them photos of unborn chil­dren, before or after an abortion. Well, I shouldn't say "can't"; there's always hope while life and breath remain. But we can't really hope too hard. 
Pro-choicers would point out, and I think rightly, that even biology needs interpretation, and that this in turn requires philosophy or religion. That's the other main thrust of pro-life argumentation. "God is pro-life." I may agree, but I have to admit that such a proposition is unlikely to convince many people of the rightness of my stance. Furthermore, it is likely to contribute to the theory that the abortion debate can never be resolved: you have your beliefs, I have mine. 
Charles Roth 


Some would say that this has more to do with the tone of the religion involved than it does with the content. In the Civil Rights movement, not too long ago, reli­gious rhetoric brought people -whites and blacks -together against the evil of racism. Religious arguments against abortion, on the other hand, are said to only separate people. I think that's tech­nically untrue, for it has made unlikely allies of Catholics and conservative Protestants like Southern Baptists and Evangelicals, to the point where some Southern Baptists no longer consider the Catholic Church to be the AntiChrist (that's progress!). However, there is a truth to the claim that religion divides; something in pro-life religious ar­guments is a distinct turn-off for people who don't believe in what's being said. 
I suggest to you that what turns people off to the religious content in the pro-life movement is the message itself, which teaches some hard lessons about certain sexual practices, and about the nature of the family. This makes it inherently threatening. Objectively viewed, sitting next to blacks imposes no great hard­ship upon a racist. It's a much bigger sacrifice for men and women to give up pleasurable sexual acts, or for women to give up careers. If ever there were peo­ple who wouldn't want to believe what they hear, these people would be them, for to admit the rightness of these argu­ments would require them to change their lives. 
The "Seamless Garment" approach tries to avoid this whole mess by stress­ing the means used to avoid children (that is, violence) instead of the reasons why the violent solution of abortion is used by so many Americans (27 percent of all pregnancies end in abortion). The "Seamless Garment" would group together violent things in America, and especially things that are death related: euthanasia, the death penalty, violence on TV, the gun culture, and who knows, maybe even cigarette smoking. These are part of the "death culture," or so the argument goes, and we need to reject them and live together in peace and harmony. 
I am not opposed to peace and harmo­ny, but as the bumper sticker says, if you want peace, work for justice. Abortion is only the easy way out of a dilemma that involves (in the usual case) extra-marital sex, maybe a little contra­ceptive failure, and an attitude of justi­fied self-centeredness (my "rights" out­weigh the needs of others). Justice is not only fairness vis-a-vis other people. A society that encourages wrongs, even personal wrongs, is not experiencing justice. Imagine: we convince people to try to avoid violent solutions to this problem. Now what? Now we have a bunch of unwanted kids, or badly raised kids, or malnourished kids. This is bet­ter than dead kids, but surely not the optimal solution. The sad fact of the matter is that doing something wrong has a way of requiring you to do some­thing wrong later, just as one lie leads one to need a few more to cover up the first. 
Abortion is only the manifestation of a lifestyle of death, which is chosen by many in our society (including me some­times}. We cannot "solve" the abortion problem without addressing these underlying societal disorders, and we can't just hope that those disorders will go away if abortion is made illegal. That's why I say that abortion would be wrong even if it didn't involve the taking of a human life (of course, then we would call it contraception, but that's another story). Abortion is the taking of a human life, and pro-lifers are right to point that out, by posters or however. Abortion is violent, and we should work for peace and justice. Ultimately, though, abortion is evil, and that can only be rectified by prayer and all that religious stuff that we as good Americans hate to see in our political discourse. 
So I guess we have a dilemma-abor­tion requires a sort of religious solution, but if anyone talks about religion in pub­lic, everyone else (including me} is turned off. I don't have a solution, but I do have a suggestion. Why can't we pray about abortion in our homes and churches, but in public-say, in front of a clinic-let's just be quiet and watch. It would probably feel weird and un­natural, but who knows, maybe it would work. If anyone asked, we could say we were there to remember. That's what people do when they visit Dachau. 
Charles Roth is a first year law stu­dent. 




ACCENT 
Tuesday, October 4, 1994 page 9 
Sounds of Duchin will be heard at SMC ball 
By PAITI CARSON 
Valentine said that the special Saint Mary's Accent Editor ticket price allows for Saint Mary's students to enjoy the 
His reputation as a brilliant glitter and glamour of the musician has been spreading evening, without paying the since the 1960's. His career entire $75. has soared with fans including the Duke and Duchess of 
She said that the Alumnae Windsor, the John F. Association understands that Kennedy's, numerous Wall college students don't have 
Street wizards, and a host of large amounts of money to Hollywood and Broadway spend on entertainment such as 
celebrities. He is Peter Duchin, the Sesquicentennial Ball. and his orchestra will be play­ing at the Saint Mary's College "That was our rationale in 
Sesquicentennial Ball. coming up with a special stu­dent price for the after-dinner Saint Mary's students are in­portion of the evening," accord­
vited to attend the Saint Mary's ing to Valentine. College Sesquicentennial Ball on Saturday, October 8. This For over twenty-five years,black tie event will be held at Peter Duchin has performed for the Century Center in down­presidents, corporate events,town South Bend. society galas, and charity bene­
fits. His name is synonymousSponsored by the Alumnae with "Big Band" entertainment. 
Association, the event will in­According to Valentine, the clude a cocktail reception, din­Alumnae Association has been ner, and dancing to the music planning to bring Duchin to 
of the world-renowned Peter campus for this event for nearly 
Duchin Orchestra. two years. 
Alumnae from throughout the Born in 1939 to Eddy Duchin, 
country will join Saint Mary's the legendary band leader of community members and local the 1930's, and NewportMichiana dignitaries for this socialite Marjorie Oelrichs,"social sesquicentennial event Duchin was educated at 
of the season." Nearly 300 Hotchkiss in 1954. He went on 
people are expected to attend. to pursue a degree in music at Tickets for the entire evening, Yale in 1958. Duchin also stud­including the 6:00 p.m. recep­ied in Paris and served in the 
tion, the 7:30p.m. dinner, and United States Army for two dancing from 8:30 p.m. to years on active duty in Panama. 
12:30 a.m., are $75 each. Upon returning to civilian life in 1960, he launched his career as 
"In an effort to make atten­a musician. 
dance more affordable for Saint Mary's students, the alumnae The sounds of the Peter office is selling special tickets Duchin Orchestra can be heard for the after-dinner portion of here in South Bend this the evening. These tickets are Saturday evening. Reservations $25 each," said Patti Valentine, must be made by Wednesday, 
Director of Publicity and October 5 by calling the Office Community Relations, Public Photo courtesy of the Alumnae Association of Alumnae Relations at 284­Relations. World-renowned Peter Duchin will perform at Saint Mary's College Susquicentennial Ball. 4578 . 
• MEDICAl MINUTE 
When Mom's not there, where to go for help 
By Ryan J. Grabow 
N.R.E.M.T. 
Let's face it! Staying healthy at school is tough. All-night cram sessions, late nights out at the bars, and the constant presence of something going around at school make it diffi­cult for any of us to stay healthy year-round. Sooner or later something catches up to all of us. Here's some informa­tion to let your know, where to go when it finally catches up to you. Help at Notre Dame. -­Where to Go? 
University Health Services located behind the Golden Dome near Keenan Hall, is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week, during the acade­mic year, providing a variety of services to the students, fac­ulty, and staff of the University. Primary care is provided by the registered nurse staff, with physicians available by appointment for follow-up care, allergy injections, pelvic examinations, and physical exams for Notre Dame spon­sored events, Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
The Health Center's lab is open 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, providing testing for a variety of medical conditions from strep throat and mono to preg­nancy and STDs. The pharma­cy, which provides prescription medications, over-the-counter medicines, and medical sup­plies, is open 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Friday. In addition, the health center also provides X-ray services as well from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Allergy injec­tions are given by appointment Tuesday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 2: 15 p.m. Transportation to off-campus physician appointments is also provided, Monday through Friday 12:30-5:30 p.m., with prior scheduling required. In the event a student must be ob­served over night, the Health center has an 18 bed In-Patient Unit located on the second floor, with visiting hours from 8 a.m.-9 p.m. At night and on weekends, students who need to see a doctor are transported to St. Joseph's Medical Center or the hospital of their choice, by University Security. 
What's It all cost? Except for medications, supplies, lab tests, x-rays, treatments, and proce­dures, there is no cost to see a nurse or doctor at the health center. In addition, there is no cost for room and board to on-campus students staying overnight in the Health Center, and only a small fee charged to off-campus students who do. Most fees are minimal com­pared to those of an outside hospital, and can be paid through private insurance or cash (to maintain anonymity). 
Help at Saint Mary's? -­Where to go? Located in the basement of Holy Cross Hall, Saint Mary's Health Services is open Monday through Friday 9 
a.m. 
to 5 p.m. and Saturday 10 

a.m. 
to 4 p.m. Primary care is provided by registered nurses with physicians available by appointment only Monday through Friday, two hours each day. On Mondays and Tuesdays a gynecologist is also available by appointment during the same hours as the other physi­cians. 


Lab tests for a variety of ail­ments as well as for STDs and pregnancy are available by ap­pointment or in an emergency when the physicians are pre­sent. X-ray services are offered during business hours at an off campus location with trans­portation provided to the stu­dent. Students can receive allergy shots by appointment during the times a physician is present at Health Services. Some prescription drugs and over-the-counter medications are available during business hours. Prescription drugs not available on site are ordered through Osco Pharmacy and are delivered during the week. Transportation to off-campus physicians appointments and to 
St. Joseph's Medical Center or costs. Memorial Hospital after busi­Take advantage of the med­ness hours is provided by ical services offered on cam­University Security. pus. Seeing the doctor is 
always better when it is a 

What's It All Cost? With the choice not a necessity. Many exception of antibiotics, x-rays, times it may turn out to be and lab work, which must be nothing more than a cold or paid for at the Health Center, the flu, but then again, it may the health fee each student be mono or strep throat or pays at the beginning of the something even worse. Good year should cover all medical luck and stay healthy. 

page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, October 4, 1994 
• INTERHAI.l fOOTBAll. 

Morrissey stuffs Stanford, Keenan, Flanner victorious 
By NEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 
The moment of truth. For Morrissey that came mid-way through the fourth quarter. They trailed No. 1 Stanford 7-6, and the ball rested on their own 20 yard line. Sand was falling through the hourglass. But Morrissey rose to the occasion. 
A ten play drive culminated in John Goetz's one-yard touch­down plunge, giving the Manor the lead for good. Goetz ran the ball eight times during the drive, and picked up 55 yards rushing. The other big play came when quarterback John Polk surprised a Goetz-shy Stud defense with a 33-yard pass to wideout Avelino Verceles. 
The Manor was completely dominating in their 15-7 win. Morrissey amassed 188 total yards, while limiting Stanford to a paltry 19. They had 11 first downs to Stanford's 1. 
Stanford's star running back Chris Pollina was limited to 14 yards on the ground, while quarterback Mike Brown was held to three yards passing, and was sacked twice. Goetz picked up 85 yards rushing, breaking numerous tackles, and going through the elephant sized holes the offensive line opened. 

"The offensive line won the game for us," said coach Jonathan Walsh. 
After the drive Stanford was in position to drive down for the win, but on 2nd and 6 from their 39, Morrissey's Mike Leudeman fell on top of a Stud fumble. 
That set up Mark Nicholson's 34 yard field goal that clinched the win for the Manor. 
Morrissey started the game off with a quarter long 15 play 65 yard drive that culminated in Jeff Hagkull's one yard scoring run. 
Stanford took the lead in the second on John Mele's nine yard touchdown run. After the extra point gave them the 7-6 lead that lasted until the fourth quarter. Then, Goetz and the Gang moved the chains to a Morrissey win. 
"Nobody can last against the drives we put together." said Walsh. 
"Have no doubt. The Manor is Back," he concluded. 
Keenan 6, Off-Campus 2 

It wasn't pretty, but it got the job done. Keenan's 6-2 victory over Off-Campus may have you wondering if you're reading about lnterhall football, or soc­cer, but it did cement their standing as one of the top teams in the league. 
At 2-0, Keenan is now the lone undefeated team. 
"We got the victory although I wasn't impressed with our play," said Keenan captain Rob Rolf. 
The game was scoreless stale­mate until the fourth quarter. Then, on 3rd and 6 at their own 8 yard line, Off Campus fum­bled the snap, and Keenan's Matt Bauer fell on top of the ball. 
On the next play, Ben Mitchell plowed through the Off-Campus defense for four yards. Two plays later, he plunged across the goal line for a 6-0 lead. However, Josh Tullis' PAT was blocked. 
Off-Campus didn't give up there. They drove the ball down to the Keenan 15. But then, Keenan intercepted the ball at the one yard line. 
At this point, Rolf decided that if they couldn't get out of the end zone that he would take a safety. He was confident that Keenan could hold Off-Campus. 
Indeed, Keenan signal-caller Matt Rechner was then tackled in the end zone for a safety, making it a 6-2 ballgame. 
"We had a few bad decisions, but we didn't let the bad deci­sions kill us," said Rolf. "We regrouped, and took them back when we needed to." 
"To that extent, Rolf was right. 
Although Off-Campus had 6 first downs to Keenan's 2, and 156 total yards to Keenan's 43, they also had three turnovers. 
Flanner 14, Grace 0 
It was a banner day for Flanner, as they beat Grace 14­0 on Sunday. Their defense was dominant, sacking Grace quarterback Brian P-erez four times for a loss of twenty-eight yards and intercepting two. 
Quarterback Jamie Bordas knee injury was the only nega­tive in the win. He will have surgery. 
"Their quarterback was under pressure all day," said Flanner captain Too Keller. "We pres­sured him into throwing bad passes." 
Flanner scored first in the sec­ond quarter. Perez's pass was interceptedby J.P. Fenningham. Three plays later, Steve Hrovat scored from the one. The sec­ond score came on a 38 yard pass to Jim McKale. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 

NEEDED-a RIDE from anyone Need 1 stu. ticket for Navy gamel Need 4 BYU tickels. Student or &&&&&&&&&&&& To the girl who left her green Notre going to BOSTON COLLEGE on My Iii' sis is coming to visit! Please GA. Please call Joe at 4 x 4485. Need 2 tickets Dame sweatshirt on my bed after 
NOTICES 

OCT 5 or 6-call Sarah x2384 help mel x4819 to see Maya at SMC. the party in 209 Morrissey on 
I NEED 8 TICKETS TO BYU Call4-4478. Friday: Please call Aaron@3507 so 
III!IATTENTION SOPHMORES!!III RETAIL $$$Help! I need 2 Navy GAs. STUDENT OR GA'S CALL &&&&&&&&&&&& I may know your name 
The Class of '97 Service Project will macy's Please call Usa at 277-0740. Will MEGHAN X4541 
be kicking off the year with a house invites you to pay top dollars.$$$ Needed:1 GA to air force and 1 GA Rory. 
painting project on Sunday, 10/9. It discover career to BYU or Navy-call ann x4544 Here's to the men we love-
will be the first of many projects opportunities at NEED 2 GA's for NAVY &NEED 4 I GIVE NEW MEANING TO THE Here's to the men who love us-
with the Northeast Neighborhood. Aeropostale GA's for BYU CALL Chris x-1353 WORD DESPERATE! Will trade BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC To the men we love 
Help us get off to a great start and Aeropostale, Macy's highly sue-2Navy GA's for 2BYU or 2AirForce We need Boston College tickets! who don't love us-
help us help others. Talk to your cessful specialty store, is seeking: FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL GA's OR will pay$1call Anne#4252 Call Jeff or Eric at 232-8337 To HELL with THEM and -Sophomore Class Council Dorm STORE MANAGERS HOME GAMES. 272-7233. BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC HERE'S TO US II 
Rep, or call Brian at x1058. Thanks ASSISTANT STORE MANAGERS INDIGO GIRLS-NEED tktl 271· Happy 20th Birthday! 
-trust us ... for our store opening soon in 1532 BC GAS FOR SALE NAKI SAKI forever! Love, 

·········*········ 

.......YOU WILL HAVE FUN! ....... UNIVERSITY PARK MALL Beautiful Mormons need 3 BYU GREG 277-7475 Jen, Rach, VA and Candy Open interviews on Tickets-Call x2703. I need 2 BYU GAs for my parents. 
...•...............

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Monday October 3rd 5-9 pm and They are nice people. Call 2556 NEED GA'S FOR BYU AND AIR Play Ultimate! 
NEED CASH? Wednesday, October 5th lOam-FORCE, NICK X4073 MORRISSEY STUDENT LOAN 7pm at the Center Court NEED FSU TIX SUSAN 2771724 DON'T GIVE UP. WHAT? 
• 30 day loan Information Desk .......NEED BYU TIX'.... MY MOM NEEDS 2 AIR FORCE & -$10 to $250 loan amounts I HAVE 2 NAVY GA TIX STUDS OR GA'S 1 FSU GA • KAREN 4290 Quality Copies, Quicklyll! -1% interest With an exclusive collection of I NEED 3 AfR FORCE GA TIX CALL CHAD AT 289-9050 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 -Open Mon.-FrL 11:30 to 12:30 men's and women's sportswear LETS MAKE A TRADE NEED 4 FSU TIX-RICH UNCLE LaFortune Student Center 
next to LaFortune Info. Desk inspired by the early days of French I'LL PAY THE DIFFERENCE I NEED NAVY GA'S MARK X1640 WILL PAY BIG$$$ CHRIS X3095 Phone 631-COPY $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ aviation, Aeropostale is already a DENISE X2549 
proven success, experiencing rapid Need 3 BYU GA's & NEED 1 BYU Tick Stud or GA ANYBODY INTERSTED IN WISH-sales growth across the U.S. I HAVE 2 NAVY GA TIX 3 NAVY GA's call4-2010 Please Call Darryl @4243 Big 10 (I mean 11) to Fear the Trip lNG DAVID GORDON(B.C. KICK-I NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA TIX to MSU: Be Afraid, Be Very Afraid I
.........................................
ER GOOD LUCK, GIVE HIM A Aeropostale offers the training, LETS MAKE A TRADE SELL ME YOUR AIR FORCE TIXS Help!! I need Tix for BYU!I CALL AT 617-558-8948. ASK FOR compensation and benefits you'd I'LL PAY THE DIFFERENCE CALL· BRENDAN AT 277-6315 Monica-X2995 11. Face the elements; Earth, GORDO, AND TELL HIM WHAT expect from an industry leader. For DENISE X2549 Wind, Fire, Water & Beer YOU THINK. more information, or if unable to NEEDED, B.C. TIX-WILL GIVE '"Attention SMC women• .. 10. Get cool nicknames; Sam, Tick, 
attend, please call (317) 873-9558. NEED BYU GA'S. CALL ERIN KIDNEY, BLOOD (TYPE A+), OR We will trade NO footballlickets for Travis, Burny, &Toast x4015 FIRST BORN CHILD. CALL Maya A tickets-{)ne student foot-9. Get checked for vital signs, learn 
ILOST & FOUND I 

AEROPOSTALE BRENT AT 277-9442 ball ticket (any of the three remain-what else guys like besides sex & 
We are an EOE MIF I need Navy GA's PLEASE! ing home games) for two Maya tick-get a walk to Pangborn all in one FOUND (mid-September): small Call Brandon at x-3460 PLEASEII I NEED TWO AIR ets_ Call Beth and Rachel at 634-weekend (by the way, what is that crucifix, near library circle. call FORCE GA'S PARENTS COMING 1504 smell?)

FOR RENT
kirsten at 4-4185 if you think it I NEED BYU GA'S FROM FLAil #3601 R U can't really walk to Cascarelli's 
might be yours. CALL JEFF@ 277·8250 from the stadium (thanx Cammie) THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, PERSONAL 7_ 1/2 naked keg stands (where are NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED I need 3 G.a>'s to B.Y.U. If u ######################## my shorts anyway ?) 

WANTED 

BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO can help, call Ron at x1736 3 TICKETS (GA OR STU.) FOR PALANCA WRITING PARTY and a 6. U can't get a cab, but U can get NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE BYU GAME. ..CALL ASAP time to meet the team -Tues night an ambulance ..... NEEDED!!! ..... OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219-patty needs 2 BC tix. call 4072 WILL PAY BIG MONEYII! in NO Room (2nd Floor LaFortune)_ !)_ Who do U love eggman, who do 
f 
773-2034 CALL X2125 .. LEAVE OFFER Drop by 9:30·12:00. Goodies Ulove? WE NEED MAYA ANGELOU TICK-Desperate for BYU GA $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ served. 4. U really can't get good eggs at ETSII CALL WITH YOUR PRICE. Looking for Student Tenant Ted@4-3485 state schools either 
LAURA X2145 OR X2114. clean ,furnished, 1-bedroom apt. I need Indigo Girls Tix· Cali Erin at 3. NY isn't the only place U'll find a 
$275. 607 E. Corby-3 blocks I need one Air Force GA or student NEED 2 BYU GA'S. WILL PAY X2559, flaming Statue of Liberty. MACRI'S DELl west of N.D. Ave. Deposit, ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please $$$$$$-call Brian@ X1739 2. What do U mean my face is on Help wanted. Need 8-12 energetic references,800-582-9320 call X3822. Thanks! real good, real good fire? (ow, put it out, ow) 
people to complete our staff. Front 4 SALE: 2 Navy GAs-CALL with 1. I am the Eggman, coo-coo­and back of the house positions BEST HOUSE OFF CAMPUS NEED 2 NAVY GA'S PAUL X4327 b/o 4-4824 Traps· cachoo I 
...................................
available. Good starting pay with HUGE 4BR 1/1-2 BATH, WASHER Happy Birthday ... ! must be benefits and bonuses. Flexible DRYER CLEAN, CLEAN! DON'T HELPII Looking for 2 GAs for BYU I NEED 1 NAVY G.A.I Call Sean going! Love, Spi -For next trip; beware random bolts hours, excellent working conditions. WAIT ANOTHER DAY-81GN UP Call277-3811 @1432. of lightning & don't forget the fire 
Apply within 214 Niles Ave. 1/2 block South of Corby's. 282-1351 
NEED EXTRA CASH? Bill Knapps Restaurant is now hir­ing servers and hostesses. We offer great pay and flexible schedules. Apply today at 222 Dixieway (US 31-33) 272-0370. 
VOLUNTEERS ARE NEEDED AT THE EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVEL­OPMENT CENTER AT NOTRE DAME & SAINT MARY'S. SER­VICES SUCH AS READING, CRAFTS & PLAYING WITH CHIL­
OREN. 75 MINS. ONCE A WEEK. 
PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 284­4693. 
PIZZA MAKER -PART TIME ­EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD MONEY. CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW YORK 257-1100. 

FOR SALE 
NOW FOR '95. 4/5 STUDENTS. FREE BONESYIII extinguisher or your furry 259·7801. NEED 4 Air Force G.A.'s. Will WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GAs FOR Whoever took our skeleton from the avocadoes ... 2 B can't TRADE 4 FLA. ST. G.A.'s or other 2 BYU TIX-Call Val #4-2597 Grace laundry room on September thanx cyn, PJ, TS, MT & BG (cool home game G.A.'s. Joe x1748. 30 around 2:30 am, please return trip) Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call him to 820 Grace. He is the proper· ••••••• happy now, c ? ••••••• 
HELP! I need 4 Navy tickets-stud. Sue at277-8995 ty of George and the Freeks.Franxl '71 M.G. MIDGETT RED CON-and GA. Call Brian at x.2034. sshh, no more talking I! VERTIBLE. SHARP, RUNS GOOD. Need 2 Navy GA's. Call287-1953 The willage is a node in the nexxus $1,700. CALL 277-3239. I NEED 2 BYU GAs of Indian society_ EL, i don'tlhink she's in that bed 
CALL McKENNA 271-2956 Need lhree GAs for any home­
........ * * ....... * •••••••••
CONDO FOR SALE-Woodbridge· game. Call Matt al 289·271 0 EP, at least we got passed the Minutes from NO-end unit on pond-Desparately need 4 BYU GA's baaahh Interested in World travel? credits:) 18177F Stoneridge-2BR+Loft, Call Megan at 4072 Semester Around the World partici-Fireplace, All Gar w/Opener-I need Navy GA's. Paul at X2681 pants eam 16 credit hours and trav-KP -EEEEEDDD! $58,000·Call232-5190. I NEED 3 AF GAs-call Sam X4872 elthroughout Asia and Europe. 
Two months of study is done in EL &AS, who needs a car when NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED I NEED 2 BYU GA'sl Madras, India, at Stella Maris col-you've got a bike to get to OSCO 

TICKETS 

BOSTON COLLEGE GAs Call Julie @277-4612 lege_ Come to the informational Call Marc at X3300 or X3309 meeting held October 5 at 7:00 in dancing S to passed out S in less WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT 15 BYU NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED WANTED BOTON COLLEGE the Library Auditorium. than 5 seconds •••••••••••• *** ...............
TICKETS. CALL 2771659 800-922-2327 JANET. PARENTS HATE YOU? hi bicky, jackie, layne, taryn, & 
SELL ME THEIR NAVY TIXII NY Alum needs 1-4 tickets for BYU You don't really want to drive all the meghan .... another mental block ;( I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. SERIOUS CASH II game. Calll-800-666-4949 way to BC ... Save your time &eam 272-6551 CALL JERRY AT 3024 ext. 220. Ask for Ann Hiens some$$ Sell me your tix x1475 don't forget, U gotta pull out slow! 
Tuesday, October 4, 1994 page 11 
• NHl STRIKE

Irish 
continued from page 16 
NHL on ice until 15th, 
Wisconsin on Sunday at Alumni Field. 

maybe even longer
The following weekend, Notre Dame will travel to a tourna­
Associated Press "Lock the doors, order the 
ment in Portland, Oregon, 
Chinese food," suggested Brian

where they will face No. 4 
TORONTO Burke, the NHL's vice president Portland, and Washington, an­
While NHL owners may be and director of hockey opera­other squad which has been in moaning about being poor, they tions. "Nobody leaves until athe ISM's top-15 this season. 
sure aren't acting like it. deal's done. I'd love to do that." 
Despite their efforts to look Rather, they are spending Last Friday. the league post­
ahead, the North Carolina 
money with reckless abandon. poned the Oct. 1 start of thematch will remain a milestone In the beginning of August, season for two weeks and said to in the back of the Irish play­
league commissioner Gary play would begin Oct. 15 if
ers' minds. For freshmen, it is 
Bettman imposed economic there was a new contract or if a game which may predicate a rollbacks that saved owners at significant progress toward one new era of success against the least $20 million. Since then, had been made. But neither the 
Tar Heels; for seniors, one of general managers have volun­NHL nor the NHL Players'the final steps in a long climb. tarily spent more than 10 times Association is expected to have that amount on long-term con­a new proposal to offer when
"It's not like it's a bad thing to 
tracts -which includes $70 they meet Tuesday in New York tie North Carolina," freshman million for the 1994-95 season to resume negotiations.
Holly Manthei said. "This will alone. 
give us confidence if we play Nobody forced them to do it. NHL players have only limited
them again. It helped the 
Edmonton general manager free agency because clubs re­freshmen that the seniors had Glen Sather suggests they tain the right to match offers orplayed them before and were should be whipped for their extract major compensation in so confident." 
spendthrift ways. most cases. This kept salaries low until a few maverick teams.
"I think it's starting to sink in," 
It's been almost a week since led by the St. Louis Blues, start­
senior co-captain Tiffany 
the two sides have had any for­ed spending money on freeThompson said, after a chance mal negotiations, and the lack agents that couldn't -or to reflect on the team's ac­
of talks has frustrated some 
wouldn't-be matched. 

complishment. 
negotiators. In 1993-94, the average salary 

Notre Dame. IN 46556 


.

This IS a public service announcement 
Having a dance? Need a OJ? Well. chew on this: WVFT has a musical library filled with thousands of records covering a wide range of music dating back to the 20s and 30s . A bit too young to remember the roaring 20s you say? Then perhaps the ··Me'~ decade will c9njure up memories of feathered hair, The Muppet Show, and Pac-Man. 
We'll take you back with all those Too 40 hits and "one-hit­wonders" that help us look back on the 80s· as our age of innocence. We will go where we want to. a· place that they will never find, and we can act like we come from out of this world and leave the real· one far behind. But don't get. stuck in the 80s, experience the full effe.cts of our time warp as we help you freshen up on your be-bopping and your disco-dancing. In no time you'll be doing the twist and thinking you're John Travolta before you realize that everyone has stopped dancing and is pointing at you. 
Don't be fooled by imitations. you may wind up spending zillions of dollars on a flux capacitor just to have a good time. Besides, plutonium is so hard to get. So· instead. for a mere $156 you can have the past ~rought to your HalL batteries inch.ided. But wait. there's more: not only would you experience th~ past four decades, but we'll ev~n. throw in· these past f~ur years absolutely free. As a bonus, we will throw in a· staff of qualified, trained DJs who will assist you in fulfilling your every music~l need. They will help you realize your dance's potential cheesiness. Our DJs are hip, they're young, they need to pay their loans off. 
You can also rest in ease knowing that you've done your part in recycling, considering that a portion of the profit that WVFI makes goes right back to our favorite charity: Notre Dame. Hey, think global. 
So act now. pick up the phone and dial 232-4959. our friendly operators are standing by to assist you. Just ask for Marv. Se habla espanol. De verdad. 
rose to $503,087 from $412,512. The number of play­ers making $1 million or more grew from fewer than five just six years ago to 75. 
Since Aug. 1, the signings have included: 
-Paul Kariya of the Anaheim Mighty Ducks at $6.5 million over three years. 
-Goalie Dominic Hasek of the Buffalo Sabres at $6.9 mil­lion for three years. 
-Vince Damphousse of the Montreal Canadiens at $10 mil­lion over four years. 
-Brett Lindros at $7.5 mil­lion for three years with the New York Islanders.-Jaromir Jagr at $19.2 million for five years with the Pittsburgh Penguins. 
"I don't mind paying star players," Edmonton owner Peter Pocklington said. "They're entertainers. But that does not mean the journeymen should share in the abundance if it is killing the goose which lays the golden egg." 
A cursory look at an NHLPA salary list from Aug. 1 to Oct. 1, however, doesn't show very many journeymen players. It's doubtful players like Teemu Selanne and Keith Tkachuk of the Winnipeg Jets or Bill Hanford of the Oilers fit that bill. 
Players acknowledge that their salaries have risen dra­matically over the past four or five years, as the owners have been quick to point out. 

NOBODY DOli'S SKI BR(jlKS MTYEII! 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 4, 1994 
•NFL .INTERHAU.. 
Salary cap is good for B-P, Walsh waltz to wins 
something -upsets 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
Call this week Salary Cap Sunday, the week that the ac­cordion effect of the new sys­tem collapsed the NFL into one good team (Dallas), one bad one (Cincinnati) and 26 others. So, on this given Sunday, as injuries cut into the lack of depth caused by the salary cap 
-Philadelphia beat San Francisco 40-8, unveiling Charlie Garner, who may be the quick running back they haven't had since Wilbert Montgomery. But that also hap­pened because Carmen Policy, the master of the cap, can't replace three injured Pro Bowlers on the offensive line. Deion Sanders doesn't cut it when it comes to blocking de­fenders. 
-New Orleans knocked off the Giants, one of the NFL's last two unheatens, in part because the Giants weren't good enough to be 4-0. Over the years, only a really good team can get to 4-0 (San Diego, perhaps, an excep­tion), a decent one stops at three. 
-Arizona and Buddy Ryan did the reverse, refusing to go 0-4 by beating Minnesota 17-7 a week after the Vikings had looked like Super Bowl con­tenders. And that was with Jay Schroeder at quarterback, Buddy's third quarterback in four games. 
-Tampa Bay beat Detroit 24­14 in a game that featured Vernon Turner's 80-yard punt return, the first punt or kickoff return for a TO in the team's 19-year history (Eric Metcalf can do it twice in one game). The Lions, meanwhile, demon­strated the price you have to pay for beating Dallas: two straight losses despite Barry Sanders' personal heroics. 
-Shula beat Shula, Papa Don over Young Dave. On any given Sunday ... Dave's Bengals are just one bad team. 

With all that, it's worth a look at the playoff races, even if the season is just 30 percent old. 
The assumption that Dallas and San Francisco would dominate the conference has given way to a jumble. 
The Cowboys (3-1) are still at the top, but Emmitt Smith pulled a hamstring Sunday. He says he'll be back by Wednesday, but trainer Kevin O'Neill says wait. Hamstrings can be tricky things, and if there is a wait, the accordion effect has left just fumble-prone Lincoln Coleman behind Smith. 
Tier II is Minnesota (3-2), San Francisco (3-2) and Philadelphia (3-1). 
George Seifert upset Steve Young by lifting Young in the third quarter to protect him from his own cap-depleted of­fensive line. "We took him out to avoid getting him hurt," Seifert said. "I probably should have taken him out sooner than that. I just said, 'The heck with this."' 
The Vikings ran into the law of averages in the desert. 
The Eagles? They look very legitimate, particularly with Garner, who rushed 16 times for 111 yards and two touch­downs and had a 28-yard re­ception. But. please, Randall Cunningham, stay healthy. 
Tier III, playoff contenders all, are an oddball lot that includes the Giants (3-1); Atlanta (3-2) after an 8-5 win over the Los Angeles Rams (Bobby Hebert, winning pitcher in relief); Green Bay and Detroit (each 2­3); and maybe even New Orleans (2-3), Chicago (3-2) ­Steve Walsh? at quarterback? and, yes, Buddy's Cards (1-3 and charging). 
Tier IV (forget it) is Washington (1-4); the Rams (2­3), good field, no hit and no sta­dium; and Tampa Bay (2-3), unless Turner turns into a combination of Metcalf and Dave Meggett. 
By RYAN LYNCH 
Sports Writer 
Breen-Philllps 20, 
Cavanaugh 0 

Breen-Phillips chalked up its first victory of the season with a sensational defensive effort in a 20 to 0 rout over a struggling Cavanaugh team. 
Katie McNally opened the scoring for B.P. on a well-exe­cuted reverse as she danced into the right corner of the end­zone. IKatie Mehan continued the B.PA charge as she explod­ed up the middle for the second touchdown of the game, but it was the B.P. defense that would inflict the most damage. 
Outside linebacker Laura Patterson turned in a stellar defensive effort for B.P. as she picked off two Cavanaugh pass­es, and stopped the run throughout the game. K.C. Breshnahan also fueled the B.P. defense as she int1lrcepted the third of four Cavanaugh passes and returned it for B.Pn-S thlrd touchdown of the game. 
The score did not reflect the fine play of Cavanaugh defend­ers Didi Kralick and Maggie Marns, who both helped to slow the powerful B.P. offense. 
Although the Cavanaugh offense was scoreless, tailback Kerry Gulic worked extremely well in running the option with quarterback and captain Erin Williams-a sure-fire combina­tion to look for in the future. 
B.P. captain Melissa McPike praised the strong defensive and offensive effort of the team and was pleased that: "After two close games, we were glad that we finally emerged as the team on top." 
Walsh 6, Pangborn 0 
Living up to their number one ranking in the women's interhall power poll, Walsh narrowly slid by an improving Pangborn teann with only 11 seconds to go in the game. Ann Jackobice scored the game win­ning touchdown on a hook lat-

Why not choose a 
first class haircut? 
Bringing out your 
best features is a 
talent. We create 
haircuts and styles 
that are expressly 
unique ... always 
exceptional and 
totally your own. 
:t~ii~cilill[ 
Men's cut & Style 
$1zx> 

with Student ID272-0312 reg. $1500 
Ironwood & Rte. 23 -minutes from campus 
era! to the left side as Walsh improved its impressive record to 3 and 0. 
Walsh captain Kristen Edmunson credited the Walsh defense as playing a vital role in Sundays last-second victory. Pangborn's offense was held in check by Walsh's menacing defensive line, which allowed only 4 first downs-The Walsh linebackers continually forced the Pangborn offense -o run outside by dominating the mid­dle of the field­
Pangborn's defense held the potent Walsh offense at bay until Jackobice broke loose for the game winning touchdown around the left end. The Pangborn secondary effectively defended the Walsh pass attack, and forced Walsh to keep the ball on the ground. 
Walsh captain Kristen Edmundson was quite pleased with the teams effort and last minute victory, as "the defense played strong and the offense came through in the clutch . " 
GRADUATE STUDENT RETREAT 
Friday, October 7 -Saturday, October 8 8:00p.m. (24 hours) 8:00p.m. 
A time of silence and reflection, companionship and conversation. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students. 
Place: Mary's Solitude at the back of the St. Mary's College Campus. 
Planning: Graduate students interested in this retreat are invited and urged to attend a one hour meeting Monday, October 3, 7:00 -8:00 p.m., in the Fischer Graduate Community Center in order to help plan the retreat. 
Deadline: Reservations will be accepted until Wednesday, October 5. 

Contact Fr. john Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 631-8606 or Sharon Harwell at Fischer Community Center 631-8607. Cost: $15.00 for the cost of meals and snacks. 


Tuesday, October 4, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
IH 
continued from page 16 
He was brought down at the Alumni twenty-five yard line with less than thirty seconds left in the half, and no timeouts left. 
On the very next play, Benji hit Rick Rios again for twenty­two yards bringing the ball to the three with very little time left. Zahm ran the option to the right, and when tailback Travis Krahl was stopped short of the goal line by a strong Alumni defense, the half was over. 
Zahm would dominate in time of possession in the second half. Alumni was allowed two series of three plays each in the third quarter, and only two plays in the fourth quarter. However, Zahm continually hurt itself with penalties. It had four penalties in a critical drive early in the fourth quarter and six for the game. 
After a thirteen play drive to begin the third quarter, Zahm punted. It would get the ball right back as Zahm safety Dave Bozanich would get his second key interception in as many games. In Zahm's third play after getting the ball back, 
Multicultural Fall Festival; October 2-7. 1994 sponsored by 
?t{ufticullurrzl~tiw Coundi 


Come and see the 
~ARAUA NAU'AIJl (INDIAN) DANCE UROUPE 
perform on Tues.• Oct. 4 at 7:00 P.M. in the LaFortune Ballroom 
The dance troupe is directed by Krithib Rajagopalan. Kr:thika has been an ardent student of Natyakalalayam, a classical dance style of India, since llie age of six. She performed by special invitation in Expo'f.'; l in Cmmda. She also performed in the Southeast Asian Arts Festival in Kualalrunpur. She has been a member of cultural delegations to the old U.S.S.R. She has performed all over the world and everywhere she goes she has been a hit. 
Press Comments: 
Her performance wa5 5heer magic, bri5tling with complicated foot wort and a 5upcrb mime ••• Morning Star, London 
She took the audience by 5torm ... her lively recital wa5 marked by a 5en5e of rhythm, fluidity a:1d expre55ivene55 at it5 perfected best Chicago Tribune 
Krithika danced her way into the heart5 of art lover5 ... the 5culpture~ ue po5e5 bore evidence of her depth of under5tanding of Bharata t\atyam ..• Indian Express, New Delhi 
Rhythm i5 her forte and 5he revelled in it. Each dance wa5 fa5cinating and brought ali·. e the ancient temple 5culpture5 of India ••• La Swiss, Geneva, Switzerland 
-I 

Hammond spotted Swatland for a big gain. On the very next play Rios got out of bounds after a nine yard pickup. 
However, the clock was Zahm's biggest enemy once again, because only twenty sec­onds were left. After an in­complete pass, Zahm kicker Mike Wigton attempted a thir­ty-two yard field goal on third and one that went wide right. 
Despite not being able to score in the first two games, Zahm quarterback Benji Hammond showed flashes of brilliance. He connected on eleven of twenty-one pass at­tempts, and didn't have an in­terception. His favorite target was Rios who had a spectacular day with seven catches. However, the Zahm coach wasn't satisfied with the tie. 
"Our offense is not improving, its getting worse," he said. "We have a good offensive line and good backs, but the receivers and the quarterback haven't come together, and their timing is off. He (Benji) is playing well as a freshmen, and needs to step up into a leadership role and gain confidence, and we'll be alright." 
Alumni now drops to 1-1. The tie shouldn't hurt it them too much, though, as the playoffs are determined by the teams with the least losses, rather than most wins. 
St. Ed's 14, Sorin 0 
St. Ed's proved that they are undoubtedly better this year with a victory over the Sorin Otters. 
St. Ed's has three quarter­backs, and has now played all three. Frank Diorio played last week, and Ben Magnano and Jacob Bump split Sunday's game against Sorin. Magnano played in the first half, one in which neither team could find the end zone. 
Early in the second quarter, Sorin was aided by a pass inter­ference call, and after two big gains by Sorin bringing them inside the ten, it looked as if they would get a score. However, a swarming St. Ed's defense would stuff a running play, sack the quarterback, and intercept a pass to get out of danger. 
Jacob Bump entered the game at quarterback for St. Ed's in the second half. On the second play of the half, tailback Mike Norbut took a hand-off and didn't stop until it was sixty yards and six points later. The extra point was no good, but a Sorin penalty gave St. Ed's new life. This time, they gave it to Norbut who fought his way into the end zone for two points. 
Sorin went three plays and punted. On the first play for St. Ed's, Bump threw a fifty-eight yard touchdown. 
"There was a defensive mis­cue as no one was covering the receiver, so he signaled to me and I threw it to him," said Bump. 
Sorin had a chance to score again at the end of the game. After a holding penalty on a punt gave Sorin new life, Sorin completed three passes to get to the St. Ed's nine. Once again, the St. Ed's defense tightened forcing four straight incompletions to seal the 14-0 victory. 
Except for the two big plays, Sorin's defense played well. However, once Sorin's offense got close to the goal twice, they were turned back by a combi­nation of great defense and penalties. If execution were better in the red zone, Sorin would have been in the game to the finish. 
St. Ed's coach Anton Nowak commented on the quarterback situation. 
"I planned on switching quar­terbacks at halftime," he said. "Ben and Jake weren't able to make it for practice much of the first couple of weeks, but I was happy with both of them (on Sunday)." 
When asked who would start the next game at quarterback he said "I am going to have to see how practice goes." 
In regard to the team's work­horse running back, he replied, "Norbut had a great run and is a spark for our team." 
"Norbut is the best running back I've seen in three years of interhall football," said Bump. "We've got more players than St. Ed's usually has, and a ded­icated coach, so it looks good. Our goal is the playoffs." 

Mental illness has warning signs, too. 
Withdrawal from social activities. Excessive anger. These could be the first warning signs of a mental illness. Unfortunately, most of us don't recognize the signs. Which is tragic. Because mental illness can be treated. In fact, 2 out of 3 people who get help, get better. 
For a free booklet about 
mental illness and its warning 
signs, write to or call: 
National Mental Health Association P.O. Box 17389, Washington, D.C. 20041 
1-800-969-NMHA. 
Learn to see the warning signs. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 4, 1994 
• SMC Vou.EYBALL 

Belles to bounce back against Hope 
By CHRISTINA TECSON Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's volleyball team faces Hope College tonight at 
7:30 in the Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles are coming off a loss on Saturday to Carroll College, ending their three game winning streak. The team heads into this game in good shape. Aimmee King twisted her ankle Saturday but should be able to play. In other injury news, Captain Kelly Prosser played her first game Saturday after coming ofT an ankle injury. 
"I feel pretty good, said Prosser. "It's amazing how out of shape you can get in two weeks. But my ankle feels al­right. Hopefully rll be alright." The team should be alright as well. Although several players weren't present, they had a 


Happy 21st Chris! 
LOVE AND KISSES FROM EVERYONE AT HOME. 

strong practice and are ready to play. "We had a good practice, but we were missing a lot of peo­ple," said Sara Stronczek. "But we're well prepared for Hope." "They're supposed to be a very strong passing team," said Meg Winkler. "Last year we beat them in three games. But they were tough games. So it should be very good competition to­morrow." 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Domer Run-Saurday, October 8, 10:00 am at Stepan Center. Three and six mile runs followed by a pan­cake breakfest. T-shirts to all finishers plus awards to the champions of each divi­sion. There will be student and staff divisions. Register in advance at RecSports. $5 fee in advance, $6 day of event. More info, call RecSports at 631-6100. 
lli~(~Y(~JJ~ 

'I,DI~ OIISI~Il17J~Il 
• SMC TENNIS 
Saint Mary's tennis faces DePauw in fall finale 
By TARA KRULL 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's tennis team will face the DePauw University Tigers today at 
4:00 p.m. on their home courts. This will be the Belles' third and final game of their fall season. 
Though Saint Mary's has not played DePauw in several years, the Tigers are antici­pated to be a challenge for the 1-1 Belles. 
"We know that DePauw was defeated last year by Saint Joseph's (5-4)," Waibel said. "Since we were beaten by Saint Joseph's (7-2), we know that our work is cut out for us." 
Sophomore Jennifer Kelley, the Belles' number three sin­gles player, noted that a strat­egy the Belles will be using against the Tigers is trying to remain focused on their indi­vidual matches. 
"We need to concentrate on keeping the ball in play dur­ing our sets," she said. "We don't want to beat ourselves on the courts." 
It will be favorable for the Belles to walk away from the courts today with a win over DePauw. A victory will give them a winning record for their fall season and it will allow them to close this series of matches on a good note. They will then take a break and resume practices in January after semester break in preparation for their spring season. 
Sophomore Kate Kozacik, the number one singles player for Saint Mary's added that the team sees the match against DePauw today as a crucial component to their short fall season. Like Saint Mary's, Depauw is catego­rized as a Division III school as well, and they have the reputation of being a domi­nating team within their divi­sion. 





CATCH THE SPIRIT! 
"The true spirit ofNotre Dame is captured in the commitment to faith and humanity... " 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
Catch the spirit of the 1995  President, University of Notre Dame  
Datebook, "The Spirit of Notre Dame."  
This high quality 7~ 1/4 x 9~ 1/2 inch  
weekly planner captures the physical  
beauty of Notre Dame's campus through  
52 black and white photographs. Each  
week, the Datebook's scenic pictures will  
bring Notre Dame, its memories, and  
unique spirit home to you!  
The Datebook also conveys the  
growth of another spirit: the spirit of  
serving others. The Datebook is spon~  
sored by the Notre Dame Alumni  
Association to benefit La Casa de  
Amistad, Inc., a Hispanic non~profit  
community center on the City of South  
Bend's West Side.  
By purchasing a Datebook, you, too  
can be a part of the spirit of La Casa de  
Amistad, Inc. that is working to build  
youth programming in order to give boys and girls a healthier, brighter future.  Notre Dame Alumni Association  

Available now Campus wide for $10. Pick it up in the bookstore and various campus concession stands. 


Tuesday, October 4, 1994 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
CALVIN AND HOB-;..:B:.:ES=--------. ..-----------, 

DILBERT 
Hot.J'S THE. J"OB GOING, ANN[? 
The Observer • TODAY 
DAVE KELLETT 
-p.oommA'rE: THAT S£E.tns 
""8LA<.K f\olE J<A-rH€.11. l-IAR~ 11 'SMtc. A~rn. To lYlE .. ·T •._ '­~ VsuALL~ ~U~T 
o l'~<ETEI'<D rr..L>u.~=... 
BILL WATTERSON 

f"\UCH BETTER, NOW 'THAT ~ I'VE GIVEN UP .SLEEP, 
~ 

58 Concern of 
38-Across 61 Beg 63 Fame 64 Nipper's co. 65 Black and tan 
ingredient && Texas city 67 Driver's license 
info &a Cobb and Hardin 
DOWN 

1 Pari-(at an equal rate): Lat. 20neof 38-Across 3 Finland, to the Finns 4"What-, chopped liver?" 5 One of 38-Across 
a Weather data 7Semi 8 Language suffix 
9Pupil's protector 10 Oscars' cousins 
SCOTT ADAMS 
ANY THI.5 IS THE. ADVERSE AORTA OF THE. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Drink cat-style 33 River to the 
1 Bedwear, Seine
informally 4 Essen 
36 Telecommuni­exclamation cations giant 
7Move back 37Uncommon 13 Sports erg. 38 Theme of this 14-tai puzzle 15 Ethanol and 
42 Missingdimethyl ether, 43 Dam-buildinge.g. 

or g. 

17 Germinating 44 Gather
190neof 
38-Across 45Gazeat 20 Unchanged 48 Afrikaner 21 Sounds of 
47Toand­

happiness 
480neof

23 Hose material 38-Across
240neof 
53 Lumberjacks'38-Across competition

28 Actress Lupine 29 Distinctive 
56 Vote for quality 57 It is in Spain 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~*~ 11 Good buy 12 Cubemaker Rubik ~.!!!+::+:JII~..:,.+:~~~~~::::-1 16 Antonym'santonym: Abbr. ~~:..-~~-=-~~~~ 18Add color to again 22Shower's counterpart 25 River in Hesse L::;.+:,...+:-=+;:8 26 Saturn or Mercury, e.g. L..:....L=~.J.;:.J 27 Not kosher 


Puzzle by Peter Gordon 
30 Pelee output 31 Lover of 
Aphrodite 32 Bics, e.g. 33 Homeowner's 
pymt. 34 Sailor's cry 35 Actress Russo 37 More distant 39 Sioux Indian 40 Iris's place 41 Wraparound 
dress 46 Litters 
page 15 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


If you see Sports happening, call The Observer at 631-5323 
470neof 
38-Across 48Type 49 Rathskeller 
servings 
50"Have-" (interviewer's request) 
51 One of 38-Across 52N.B.A.'s Thurmond and Archibald 

53 Scale notes 54 Eight: Prefix 55 Fill, as bases 59 Yr. parts 60 Singer Sumac 62 Strain 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 



SPORTS 
page 16 
• WoMEN's SoccER 

Irish are head over Heels with momentum 
ByRIANAKEY Associate Sports Editor 
On the day after snapping North Carolina's 92-game win­ning streak, the phone in the Notre Dame women's soccer office rang all day long. Former players, opposing coaches, and media from across the country called to congratulate Irish coach Chris Petrucelli and fmd out how his squad was able to do something no team has done since 1990. 
The day after raising their record to 9-0-1, marking the best start in the history of their program, the women's soccer team climbed to No. 2 in the Intercollegiate Soccer Association of America coach­es' poll-the highest ranking they have ever received. 

And on the day after complet­ing their toughest road trip of the season in a manner which will be difficult to match, the Notre Dame women's soccer team had to start looking ahead. 
"Breaking Carolina's winning streak will always be a special footnote in Notre Dame soccer his troy," coach Chris Petrucelli said, "but we have to move on and channel that excitement and enthusiasm into our re­maining matches." 
The enthusiasm of Notre Dame's tie with North Carolina and their 5-0 thrashing of Duke will be difficult to match, but the Irish will need to try already this weekend when they host Loyola on Friday night before facing No. 8 
see IRISH/ page 11 

The Observer/Michael Hungeling Co-captain Tiffany Thompson and the Irish, though disappointed with their scoreless tie against North Carolina have to be proud of their play . 
'

;J;~zenars hurt, 
"1111Becton back 
:bb~~t StaffRe 
rt 

•.•.•.. Notre !)arne's starting full­
back. Ray Zellars is likely to ..misf!.+!+ Saturda;r,:s game against Boston College due Jo sprained ankle. He is offi­''eiallflisted as "doubtful... 
Zellars. one of the nation's top fullbacks injured the ankle in Notre Dame's 34-15 over~tanford.. .•.. ..;·k)l\ •· 
··•·· Marc•.Edwards Will step into the starting lineup. 
:< The loss of Zellars should ~be balanced by the likely return of tailback Lee 
Becton. 

This lets the Irish move Robert Farmer,to fullback,to provide depth. 
Irish cornerback Bobby Taylor brok.e a bone on the ·top ofhis hand but is expect,;, 
ed to play. 



• INTERHAll fOOTBAll. Carroll cruises past Fisher, Zahm comes up empty, ties Alumni 
ByB.J. HOOD Sports Writer 
The crooked stick belongs to Carroll after an improved of­fensive showing and continued suffocating defense. 
Carroll used a ball control of­fense on the first drive of the game with a fourteen play drive ending in fullback Joseph Schenher's two yard touch­down. 
Turnovers would then haunt Fisher. After a fumble that Carroll didn't capitalize on, Fisher again fumbled. This time, Carroll captain Scott Ismail recovered the ball in the end zone for his first touch­down. That made the score 12-0 where it would stay, with both defenses playing tough the rest of the way. 
The Fisher offense could get little going against a Carroll 
Carroll quarterback Chad Harrison scrambles out of the pocket during 
defense with two shutouts.
the Vermins' 12-0 upset of the Green Wave of Fisher. 
Carroll coach Marty Ogren commented on the defense af­ter the game. 
"Bert Berry (outside line­backer for the varsity football team) took over our defense and his leadership helped," he said. 
Fisher coach T.C. Kazmierczak complemented Carroll after the loss. 
"Carroll played a good game, and they are well coached," he said. "We have to forget about this game and come out next Sunday." 
Zahm 0, Alumni 0 
Zahm and Alumni still haven't been beaten after their 0-0 tie on Sunday afternoon. The final score tells the story of two defenses who thus far have refused to give up points. The score is all too familiar for Zahm, who ended in a tie at zero last week, too. 
The game was dominated by the defenses for the first quar­ter and most of the second quarter. Zahm got the ball af­ter forcing a punt late in the second quarter, and a very in­teresting conclusion to the half ensued. Freshmen quarter­back Benji Hammond hit se­nior receiver Rick Rios for eight yards to start the drive. Two plays later he hit tight end Randy Swatland for eight more, setting up the most en­tertaining play of the day. 
Hammond tossed the ball to Swatland, who lined up at tail­back. Swatland, a quarterback himself, passed the ball to an open Dave Bozanich twenty­five yards downfield, who then flipped the ball to Hammond who had sprinted down the field after tossing to Swatland. 
see IH/ page 13 


Walsh slips past Pangborn 8-0-in battle of the unbeatens 
By RYAN LYNCH 

.. 
Sports Writer 
Lyons 20, Howard 8 

Lyons captain and quarterback Julie Byrd led her team to a 20-8 victory in this weeks thriller against Howard. 
Lyons opened the scoring as Jenny Layden broke a sweep up the right side for a 1 0-yard touchdown run. Lyons then ran ahead 8 -0 as Byrd eluded the Howard defense and found the end zone with a quarterback sneak for the two-point conversion. 
Christie Broderick, the Howard quar­terback rallied her troops as tailback Sarah Norton scored the lone Howard touchdown. 
The Howard defense accounted for two points with a safety following a controversial intentional grounding call by the officials, setting up Lyons deep in their own territory. 
The Lyons quarterback and captain continued to give Howard problems as Byrd found the end-zone again on a 15 yard quarterback keeper to the left side. With Lyons leading 14 -8, Kathy Tschanz broke open the game with a touchdown around the right end. 
Howard had problems climbing back into the game as Angie Fischer of Lyons intercepted a Broderick pass. 
Howard captain Lynn Quenan opti­mistically added: "We (Howard) showed more improvement this week. As a young team, I am pleased as long as we continue to improve." With this loss Howard falls to 0-2-0. 
Lyons improves to 2-1-0 with their impressive victory as they prepare for this weeks game against Badin. 

of note...
STEELERS STOP OILERS 
.­
Check Wednesday's Observer to 
Pittsburgh pounded Houston last night in Monday Night Football, 

see how Notre Dame basketball is See page 14 
faring in the recruiting wars. 






