
gj 

U> 
@ 
g 
~ 
m 
z 
~ 

Tuesday, November 15, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No.52 ~NOTRE DAME·IN ~ t-' THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Freshman officers elected 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
The Class of '98 will have a class council that is "more pro­ductive" than councils of the past, accord­ing to Katie Beirne, the Freshman Class Council president who was elected along with other officers of the 

1 9 9 4 _ Katie Beirne 
9 5 freshman class last week. 
Beirne, a resident of Pasquerilla East, was voted in as president at the Nov. 2 meet­ing of the Freshman Class Council, along with Vice President Paul Burke of Fisher Hall, Secretary Matt Griffin of Stanford Hall, and Treasurer Amy Crawford of Pasquerilla West. 
According to Beirne, she wants this year's council to be "more on a student level" than other councils. Beirne said she understands that past class councils have not received much recognition from their classes, and she wants to change that. 
One way Beirne said the Freshman Class Council will work to improve its communi­cation with the freshman class is by having open office hours in the Student Government office in LaFortune Student Center, where "any freshmen are welcome" to bring sugges­tions to the council. 

In addition, the Freshman 
Class Council 
has a flier "in 
the works" 
that may 
include the 
names and 
photographs
Paul Burke of all 27 mem­
bers of the Freshman Class Council. The flier will be used to improve communication. among the 
freshman class, according to Griffin. He said its purpose will be "to increase awareness and involvement" of freshman in class social activities and ser­vice projects. 
Beirne said she wants the Class of '98 "to have some nota­bility with the service projects." 
"What better way to get involved," Beirne said, "than in the first year." 
The Freshman Class Council officers will encourage mem­bers of their class to continue with a service project for the next four years once they begin a project in their freshman year. 
In order to organize a service project that freshmen can be 
Church prepares itself for third millennium 
By VICTOR L. SIMPSON 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 
Pope John Paul II says his church must mark the year 2000 by owning up 

to the sins of John Paul II R o m a n Catholics over the centuries, including religious intolerance and acqui­escence in human rights abus­es. John Paul's views, set down in a letter released Monday, appeared to be a major step toward meeting critics' demands for a self-examination of Church errors as it ap­proaches its third millennium, which it considers as beginning in 2000. John Paul said the Church must express "profound regret for the weakness of so many of her sons and daughters who sullied her face." The pope stopped short of cit­ing particular abuses or of blaming the Church as such. But he appeared to be calling for Catholics to reflect on peri­ods such as the Spanish Inquisition and the Nazi Holocaust that have led critics to question the Church's con­duct. The 74-year-old John Paul also expressed a wish to lead a pilgrimage to the holy places in the Middle East in 2000, a sign 
he doesn't view his papacy as. slowing down as some have suggested because of recent ill­ness. 
"The church should become more fully conscious of the sin­fulness of her children, recall­ing all those times in history when they departed from the spirit of Christ and his Gospel," John P.aul said in the letter to Roman Catholics. 
Some critics have said the Vatican should fully ac­knowledge abuses in the name of religion such as the Inquisi­tion. 
Critics have also accused the Church of failing to use its full moral authority to prevent the extermination of European Jewry by the Nazis, a charge the Vatican has always denied. 
Cardinal Roger Etchegaray, presenting the 71-page letter at a Vatican news conference, would not go beyond the pope's wording but said he expected clarifications before celebra­tions marking the new millen­nium. 
.Referring to a "painful chap­ter of history," the pope men­tioned the "acquiescence given, especially in certain centuries, to intolerance and even the use of violence in the service of truth." 
Later, referring to modern times, John Paul asked, "how can we not lament the lack of discernment, which at times became even acquiescence, shown by many Christians con­cerning the violation of funda­mental rights by totalitarian regimes?" 
involved in for four years, the Freshman Class Council wiU be working together with the Center for Social Concerns. 
Griffin mentioned other pro­jects being planned by the Freshman Class Council, including the sale of class apparel as a fund-raiser, a freshman class pizza party at the Alumni Senior Club, a class mass, and a freshman trip dur­ing Junior Parents Weekend. 
Beirne spoke of organizing a freshman class dance at Stepan Center, where freshmen would buy tickets and dress in semi­formal attire, as with an SYR, but they could go with or with­out dates. 

The Freshman Class Council ·is currently working on a con­cession stand for this coming weekend. Based on the pro­ductivity of the concession stand thus far, Burke said, ''I'm looking forward to the rest of the year." 
According to Burke, the pri­mary function of the Freshman Class Council is to unify the class through social and service projects." He is "confident with the Council as a whole." He said that "Burke said that one goal of the Freshman Class Council .is to organize "at least.. monthly activities." 
"I think we'll get a lot accom­plished as compared to previ­ous years," Beirne said. 

Senior speaks of experience 

Student's talk is last in special lecture series 
By CAROLYNN KIMBERLY News Writer 

Audrey Comrie has tried to carve her name into the long history of Saint Mary's College. 
In her lecture last night in Saint Mary's Stapleton Lounge, 
Comrie,  a  senior  at  Saint  
Mary's,  from  Grandville  
Michigan  paralleled her life to  

a poem titled "Carving My Name" written by Mary McClain. 
Comrie's lecture was part of the Sesquicentennial Student Lecture Series. The lectures feature a student speaker and are new to Saint Mary's as part of the 150th anniversary of the school. Comries lecture was the fmal one in the series. 
McClain's poem reads, " When I was a child, I would carve my name in sand." 
Comrie spoke of how this line speaks to her life. As a student majoring in marketing and with a minor in public relations, she reflected upon her experience as a young woman within a community of "confident and intelligent women" at Saint Mary's. 
Comrie related also to the line in the poem which reads, "Created so awkwardly with a twig in my hand." 
According to Comrie, driving down the Avenue on her cam­pus visit was the "twig," not marking the sand, but herself personally. 
A "twig" in which she , as well as the college, made the life-lasting impression of a suc­cess in education, friendships, spirituality, and her own self­assurance. 
"(Saint Mary's) was the only place I wanted to go," said Comrie. "This was where I be­longed." 
The poem continues with, "As I grew older my name was carved in wood." 
Comrie hopes she has like­wise "carved" her mark in the Saint Mary's community. Being a member of this community, Comrie said she involved her­self in several activities such as the Student Affairs Committee, where she learned some practi­cal lessons. 
One of these lessons was that interest groups can help de­velop skills, like time manage­ment and compromise, that are much needed in the work force. She also said that as a result of her participation she realized "[my] voice can make a differ­ence" as well as embellish her own college experience. 
the poem's line, "Chiseled on my battered desk, left my mark as others would," was also tied in with Comrie's college experi­ence. 
Through her three summer internships, academics, and ex­tra-curricular activities, Comrie said she established a well-de­fined mark which will echo, in unison with the alumnae and future graduates the qualities of "a community that cares for her entire being." 
Along with school, friendships are an equally important aspect that enhances the mark that college leaves behind. 
Although commencement is quickly approaching and that impression she once had has been dissolved she, as well as 
'saint Mary's was the 
only place I wanted to go. This was where I belonged.' 
Audrey Comrie, Saint Mary's Senior 
'The only way to be recalled is to leave my name in stone.' 
Mary McClain 
her fellow classmates, says she will come out having obtained the characteristics of a Saint Mary's woman. 
She relates this to the poem's line saying, "Then slowly I matured and the sand had washed away. While my ancient desk from school had surrendered to decay." 
Comrie hoped to convey to students the inspiration to leave their mark on their college community by referring one more time to the poem; "So useless were my actions, so foolish not to have known. That the only way to be recalled is to leave my name in stone." 

p----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 2 
•INSIDE COLUMN 

The love-hate 
relationship 
of coiDputing 
As a first year do mer, Ciscley Elliot the technology that I 
Viewpoint Copy
find at my fingertips is 
Editor

overwhelmingly more advanced than anything my pathetic Mississippi high school and upgraded Hewlett Packard PC could ever provide. I sit in awe as my roommate, a Chemical Engineering major, checks my Calc 105 homework in seconds with Mathmatica. I, who could never under­stand a slide rule, can push a few user friend­ly command buttons and make equations dance on the screen! Now that the lovely Macintosh Centris 610 in question has fin­ished the last derivative, I have time to explore Mosaic and do a little e-mail, every freshman's first love, trust me! 
Initially, as a novice to the internet, I tried to avoid making a fool out of myself, but I just couldn't resist leaving my address on my favorite zine's guest book. That's how I met Bibby, a computer geek from the UK. He sent me e-mail. I sent a reply. Back and forth went the proverbial ball. until finally I became an official netter, making a really good friend in the process. So what's next? Naturally, a little me. that's Internet Relay Chat, a sort of "real time" place where you can, ahem, finger a link to your friend and talk like it was a global AT&T service. Only, I wasn't sure what the computers in the labs were capable of, so I decided to ask one of the computer consul­tants on duty at Hesburgh. 
The CC at the time had no idea what I was talking about. Where does the University find these people? Why do they give them such cushy jobs while people like me have to slave at the North Dining Hall? I mean, waiting for a terminal at Hesburgh one tends to hear quite a few horror stories, most of which could have been solved painlessly if the CC hadn't been as dense as the poor distraught students. 
Yet, I didn't give up hope that easily. I had seen other students using something similar to the me. though only with other ND/SMC students, so I made another unfortunately naive decision, and walked over to DeBartolo to try my luck. Apparently, or so the CC at the 'brare had informed me, the "really smart computer people" are stationed at labs like Dehart and Nieuwland, because someone fig­ures that only the lazy, non-science majors, clueless sods one and all, use the Hesburgh or LaFortune labs. 
Well, happy to take my disk and run, this future EnglisMiistory major entered the world of the CCMB for the first time, only to find a bunch of PLS kids justifying and chang­ing fonts like crazy-not exactly the scientific Mecca the Hesburgh CC had made it out to be. 
Still, I informed the OUC assistants of my plight, confident in their ability, and waited for an answer that has yet to come. I can not be certain whether they just ignored me because I am so obviously a freshman. they were kidnapped by terrorists, or just did not have an answer for me. And I must content myself to use Eudora as I know how, wonder­ing what other positions on campus that I assumed required experience and qualifica­tions, have been so randomly assigned to peo­ple. And more importantly, how many others like myself rot in food services? Perhaps the people who watch us insert our meal cards are really quantum-physicists ... Hmmm. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 

Lab Tech News Eric Ruethling Dave Ring Jamie Heisler Production Whitney Sheets Sports Belle Bautista Dave Treacy 
The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, November 15, 1994 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Sweden votes by narrow margin to join European Union 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden .---------------------------,and 4 7 percent were 
It's three down and one Swedes vote YES opposed. Many young to go in the European Sweden voted 52% to 47% Sunday to join the Swedish professionals Union's 1994 sweep-European Union, the third of four countries voting fervently supported EU stakes. for membership in 1994. Norway will vote on membership, which 
Swedes voted Sunday November 28· to join the union, follow-European Union countries ing Austria's lead in June CD Portugal 0 Netherlands and Finland's last month. ® Ireland ® Luxembourg Norway votes Nov. 28. ® United Kingdom ® Denmark 
If voters in Norway. the 0 France @ Germany most hesitant of the four @ Spain @ Italynations, choose to join, 
® Belgium @ Greece
the EU will grow to 16 members with a $7 tril­lion economy on Jan. 1. It would encompass 375 million people from the Arctic Circle to the Mediterranean Sea. 
The North American Free Trade Agreement, by contrast. encompasses 363 million people in Mexico, the United States and Canada and a com­bined gross domestic product of $6.3 trillion. 
Swedish financial traders were buoyed by Sunday's vote, pushing the Stockholm stock market up 2. 7 4 percent over Friday's close. The Swedish krona was up 1.5 percent against the German mark. 
Some 52 percent of voters favored union membership, 
Dole challenged in aim for presidency 
WASHINGTON 
Energized by their party's midterm elections triumph, more and more Republicans are training their sights on ousting a vulnerable President Clinton in 1996. Sen. Phil Gramm, R­Texas, who for months has made clear his desire to be president, said Sunday he will file papers with the Federal Election Commission this week in 

preparation for a March announcement. The conserva­tive Texan also took aim at future Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, probably the leading unannounced candidate, saying his Kansas colleague lacked commitment to major changes in government. Gramm and Dole were both in Iowa, site of the first party caucus of the 1996 presiden­tial season, following the Republican election sweep last week. Meanwhile, Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., joined the pool of potential presidential contenders this morning, announcing formation of an exploratory committee to test the political currents and his fund-raising capabili­ties. 
Gunman killed in shootout with police 
SAN FRANCISCO 
A drifter who died in a fierce, 25-minute gun battle that also claimed the life of a police officer had warned his family in the days before the rampage: "You're going to be surprised at what I'm going to do." Wearing fatigues and a bulletproof vest, 3 7 -year-old Vic Lee Boutwell hijacked three cars and sprayed a quiet neigh­borhood with more than 100 rounds from four weapons Sunday night. Holding off scores of officers, he shot out restaurant windows, pierced a gas line and hit a seventh­floor window in a hotel blocks away. Boutwell was even­tually shot to death by police. A police officer was killed, and a paramedic and a bystander were wounded. "One of the family members said he was possibly suicidal," police Inspector Tom Walsh said Monday. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
Tuesday, Nov. IS Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 15. 
30s 
OHIO 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

would allow them to work  
in any member country  
and probably pay less in  
New EU countries 0 Austria  income taxes than they do now.  
f) Finland 8 Sweden  Yetto vote (Jp Norway  Opponents argued that Sweden is giving up its sovereignty and non­ 
alignment, a policy that  
has kept the Nordic  
nation out of wars for  
more than 180 years.  
Today, masked activists  
occupied a closed dairy  
farm in Vasteras. 60  
miles west of Stockholm,  
and proclaimed it a  
"European Union free  
zone" to protest Sunday's  
vote. the national news  
agency TT reported.  
About 15 activists fired  
slingshots and reportedly  
AP  threw fire bombs toward  

riot police who approached the building. There were no reports of injuries. 
Sweden's parliament is certain to accept the result of Sunday's non-binding referendum and give final approval to membership. 
No death penalty for tourist's killer 
MONTICELLO, Fla. 
A teen-ager accused in the highly publicized slaying of an English tourist will not face the death penalty if con­victed,' prosecutors said today as his trial got under way. John Crumitie, 17, has maintained his innocence and refused offers for plea bargains despite pleas reached by two other teens. A fourth suspect awaits trial. Gary Colley was slain and his companion, Margaret Jagger, wounded Sept. 14, 1993, at a highway rest stop east of Tallahassee. The shootings damaged the state's image and prompted the governor to post 24-hour guards at highway rest stops. As jury selection began today, prose­cutors agreed to waive the death penalty for Crumitie and in exchange his lawyers dropped a challenge to the grand jury that indicted him. Deputy state attorney Tony Guarisco wouldn't comment on the agreement. Crumitie faces life imprisonment if convicted in Colley's death. He also faces attempted murder charges in the wounding of Jagger. Crumitie's trial has been delayed several times since he rejected an agreement in August that would have sent him to prison for 40 years. 
Emergency hatch falls off plane 
NEW YORK 
The cockpit emergency hatch fell off an American Eagle commuter plane Monday on takeoff from Kennedy Airport, but the aircraft landed safely and none of the 16 people aboard was hurt. The ceiling hatch fell off the twin turboprop a few seconds after the plane took off for Albany, said D. Joy Faber, spokeswoman for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which runs the airport. The loss of the hatch caused noise in the cabin and probably let more air in, but it did not create dan­gerous suction because the aircraft flies too lo.w to be pressurized, American Eagle spokesman Marty Heires said. The plane was a Shorts 360, manufactured by Shorts of Belfast. The model. with a capacity of about 36 passengers, has been flying since 1981. 
Atlanta 73 51 Dallas 72 67 New Orleans 74 65 Baltimore 73 48 Denver 53 29 New York 62 49 Boston 57 39 Los Angeles 70 50 Philadelphia 68 48 Chicago 65 58 Miami 79 72 Phoenix 64 48 Columbus 71 46 Minneapolis 58 43 St. Louis 60 45 
Joe Villinski Graphics Tom Roland 
The Obsc:rv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday exccp( during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associarcd Press. All reproducrion righ!S are resc:rved. 

Tuesday, November 15, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
• CAMPUS LIFE CmJNCil 
Council sets agenda, co0101ittees 
By EDWARD IMBUS News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) has set its agenda for the semester. 
They have broken into sub­committees to discuss specific topics to be examined. 
The CLC will examine issues such as allowing students a way to resell their football tick­ets, investigating a possible expansion of study space dur­ing final examinations, and dis­cussing the University policy 
There will be a meeting on 



Wednesday, Nov. 16 
at 7:00p.m. in the 

Student Government Office 
for all students interested in working on a . Board of Trustees Report 
onfinancial aid. 
t 

The FACULTY Series 
TIMELY TOPICS 
An opportunity to enter into conversation with colleagues on current ethical and religious issues. 
POPULATION: Mter Cairo-Where? 
A conversation with Maura A. Ryan and George S. Howard 
Assistant Professor of Theology Professor of Psychology 
Wednesday, November 16 
4:30 p.m. at The Center for Social Concerns 
Faculty, Professional Staff & Graduate Students Welcome 
Sponsored by: The Department The Center for The Office of of Theology Social Concerns c~rnpus Ministry 
I --Light Refreshments will follow-­
==
-


requiring students to break down their rooms immediately prior to final exams. 
The agenda was set by a sub committee itself, chaired by Student Body President Dave Hungeling and consisting of both Notre Dame staff and fac­ulty CLC members as well. 
The committee charged with finding more study space for students during finals, chaired by secretary Kate McShane, has met once already. 
The group designing a way for students to resell their tick­ets is chaired by parliamentari­an Tyler Farmer, and has not yet met. 
Student Senator Amy Jagodzinski is heading the com­mittee examining the GSA­Student Residence breakdown policy. 
The subcommittees are to meet on a biweekly basis, and then report their progress and fmdings to the CLC every other week. 

Acoustic guitarist slated for Dalloway's 
By BECKY MAYERNIK 
NewsWrirer 
At last night's meeting, the Saint Mary's Student Activities Board (SAB) stated its funded events are going well finan­cially. 
"As a result of our revenue for the semester, we're right on target," stated SAB advisor Marlene Johnson. 
This week's Guatemalan Sale will also help out largely, stated Johnson. 
The sale is running through Friday in the LeMans lobby from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. each day. 
Appearing at Dalloway's this Wednesday, November 16, will be singer/songwriter David Harris. His performance, spon­sored by SAB, will start at 9 p.m., and there is no charge to attend. 
Saint Mary's will be among the fifty different schools at which the acoustic guitarist has 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents the Greek tragedy 
At Washington Hall Wednesday, 
November 16  8 p.m.  
Thursday,  
November 17  8 p.m.  
Friday,  
November 18  8 p.m.  
Saturday,  
November 19  8 p.m.  
Sunday,  
November 20  2:30p.m.  

Reserved Seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday. 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 

performed this semester, ac­cording to Hunt. 
The sophomore class is also sponsoring "Sophomore Sip" which are coupons redeemable for beverages that night at Dal­loway's to coordinate with the SAB activity, stated Hunt. 
The hypnotist scheduled for February may have to be post­poned until later in the semes­ter, due to a scheduling con­flict, according to Johnson. The Blizzard of Bucks may be postponed as a consequence. 
Finally, the Giving Tree spon­sored by SAB through the Madison Center Day Treatment Program should be up after Thanksgiving break, according to chairperson Kelly Kilmer. Students will have the oppor­tunity to help those less fortu­nate. 
Madison Center is also trying to get local businesses to help out with the event, said Kilmer. 
~-~----------~­
page 4 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 15, 1994 

HAre ND/S 
omen Overly Se·.. ·. itive? Are ND Men Insensitive?" 



Tuesday, November 15 at 7:30 PM Room 141 DeBartolo 
PANELISTS: 
• 
Kelly O'Neill .. Farley Hall R.A. 

• 
Joe Ross, C.S.C ... Rector of Morrissey 

• 
Edward Delgado .. PhD Candidate in Psych. 

• 
Noha El--Ganzouir .. Student Body President of Saint \ Mary's 

• 
David Hungeling .. Student Body 


MODERATOR: 
President of Notre Dame 

ALL ARE WELCOME! 
Sponsored by Women's Concerns Center and Student Government. 
--~~---c-----~------~---------___, 
Tuesday, November 15, 1994 The Observer • U.S. NEWS page 5 
AIDS leading cause of death Gunman shoots six 
By DARA AKIKO TOM vices for people with AIDS. the leading cause of death .... It 
people in group homes 

Associated Press "It's frightening to think that didn't go from being No. 12 to 1 nobody is surprised by it. overnight," said Mitch Katz, SAN FRANCISCO Maybe some people who have director of the city's AIDS By RICHARD COLE The group homes involved in Richard has seen it countless been hiding in the sand might office. Associated Press the shootings had 11 residents, 
times-the anger, the sorrow, say, 'Oh, my gosh."' "Between 1981 and 1984, some with emotional disorders the bravery of critically ill AIDS Over the past few years, AIDS there were 8,000 new infec­WAUSAU, Wis. and other with physical handi­patients. has been the leading cause of tions each year. Those were A junk dealer who thought caps, said Peter DeSantis, ad­
All too soon, he says, he'll death among men aged 25-44, entirely among gay men," he people were stealing from him ministrator of North Central know exactly how they feel. but 1992 marked the first time said. "And now we're seeing, shot six people at two group Health Care Facilities. The 
"Not everybody is courageous 
10 to 12 years later, the conse­homes where he volunteered as homes are privately owned and in the face of AIDS. Some go quences -the high rate of a driver, killing a 7-year-old licensed by the state. kicking and screaming and are death." girl, police said Monday. Hundreds of volunteers, in­
Four of the wounded, includ­cluding Steppert, drive home

horrible to everyone around While the numbers for 1993 them," says the former heroin were still being compiled, AIDS ing the girl who died Monday, residents to church, social addict-turned-counselor. ''I'm was expected to remain the were related and a fifth person events or programs and ser­
not sure how I'm going to act." leading cause of death. The was a family friend. vices at North Central's main Richard, an AIDS counselor death rate isn't likely to de­Carl Steppert Jr., 64, de­campus, DeSantis said. scribed by a neighbor as a Steppert volunteered in 1989
who declined to use his last crease until the late 1990s, 
name, was diagnosed HIV-posi­Katz said. "strange sort of fella," was ar­after his wife died. He worked 
tive in 1985. The bright news: The number rested hours after the Sunday one afternoon each week, re­"So I'm panicking," he says. of new AIDS cases reported in night shootings, sleeping at his ceiving 26 cents per mile reim­He isn't the only one. 1992 was 3,028, b:.tt that own home, police said. bursei'lent. "He was very de­The San Francisco health de­dropped 25 percePt to 2,264 in "I just can't imagine someone pendable," DeSantis said. 
partment announced earlier 1993 -and the health depart­performing a criminal act like Steppert's neighbors in sub­this year that in 1992, for the ment estimated the rate of new this and being able to go to urban Weston said that for first time in any U.S. city, AIDS cases would decrease to 1,204 sleep," Deputy Police Chief years he sold junk piled up in 
in 1997. Paul Luoma said. his yard. He was friendly but he was the leading cause of death 
Steppert was scheduled to mostly kept to himself, theyamong men -the first time 

any illness had supplanted But the department also appear in court Tuesday after said. heart disease. warned the disease could show charges are filed, court records Mel Radtke said he was a a resurgence because of the show. neighbor for more than 30 
In a tragic coincidence, 1992 Source: AP research AP/C. Sanderson growing number of cases Steppert told police he had years and was friends with was the same year health offi­among young people and intra­recently discovered thousands Steppert until he complained cials celebrated hitting a it crossed all age lines. venous drug users. of dollars missing from his about the junk yard five years plateau in the number of new Of the 8,143 total deaths in home and blamed the caretak­ago. 
AIDS cases. San Francisco in 1992, 1,195 Fritz Desir doesn't know how ers of the group homes, Luoma "He just had a little strange said. ways once in awhile. We were
Still, few here were surprised men died of AIDS, while 1,094 he contracted HIV, but said it by the latest news. died of heart-related disease. In could have been the unprotect­The gunman forced his way never fearful of him," Radtke 
"We've lost so many friends," 1991, of the total 8,345 deaths, ed sex he had with a number of in to the Washington House on said. said Richard Chavez, former heart-related disease killed women. Here's what he does the city's East Side around 11 Neighbor Nancy Jirovec, 46, program coordinator for activi­1,189 men and AIDS killed know: He can no longer play p.m., and shot employee said Steppert's property was an ties at the Shanti Project, which 1,152. soccer, and paying his bills is a Janette Wallace, 52, and resi­eyesore, and that he looked like provides a wide range of ser-"AIDS had been inching up as struggle. dent Stefan Schooler, 24, Lu­an aging hippie with shoulder­
oma said. length hair. 

COMEANDSEE THE SINGER/SONGWRITER & 
ACOUSTIC GUITAR PLAYER!! 
The gunman then went to the "He was a strange sort of Homestead House on the city's fella. But he always treated us West Side, where he shot Wal­nice whenever we talked to lace's daughter, Cathy, 25, her him," she said. granddaughter, Allison, 7, and A couple of years ago, Jirovec Cathy's boyfriend, Thomas said, Steppert cleaned up his Dalbec, 51. yard and she asked him why. 
It was not immediately clear "He said, 'People are stealing which house James, 17, was at. from me and it is not worth it 
The Wallaces and Dalbec anymore,"' she said. were in critical condition Mon­For some of his minor sales, day. Schooler suffered a graze he relied on the honor system, wound to the head and was in advising buyers to leave their fair condition, Luoma said. money in a cup if he was gone. 



0 
~ 
-
0 
I 
)> 
JJ 
-JJ 
en 

•'l,mer 'ICC 1Jiui1i1111 1/eall & 'Pre1itle11l 11l.li11lt1, J11c. •AII11r111V & Oral11r 
~~FJ ~fYlrB fJ)j(}(}3X1'fmlrn 
1uesda1J, nt111em6er 15 1 pm, .Ci6rariJ Audilt~rium 1lmpli11n immetlialel1J #lllltlt~~ing in lh• li6'a'IJ l11unge 
"...11flft iJ a tllnttnl,alei '""'' in ""' JftitiiJ n11l 11nl1J l11 idenli#IJ and l11l""'' llillmnw. 6ul l11 undmland lhem 111 ~hal P'll#mitlnal sueeeu mav 6e aehie11ei." 
Sp11n1md hv: 1he lillv 111uniali11n q,anl. 1he 01/ice ,, mullieullu,al Sludenl Allain. and 1he Blat#: law Sludenl Amciali11n 



page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, November 15, 1994 
Eurostar rolls underneath Channel lVith passengers 
The first train to depart, the 1--------------------------------------------__j 
Less hassles and less money to travel between Paris and London 
By DAVID CRARY Assodatcd Press 
PARIS 
Shaking ofT most of the glitch­es that plagued trial runs, all but one high-speed train rolled on schedule Monday on the first day of regular passenger ser­vice linking Paris, London and Brussels via the Channel Tunnel. 
The Eurostar trains unloaded passengers delighted by the comfort and convenience of a trip slashed to scarcely three hours. One of the inaugural trains came in four minutes ahead of schedule. 
''I'm afraid to fly, so this is great," said Mara Hoth, 34, of New York, who took the train from Paris to London. "The fewer times l have to go up and down, the better." 
The precision performances, after years of cost overruns and delays for the $16 billion pro­ject, had immediate benefits for Eurotunnel, the Anglo-French consortium that operates the undersea tunnel. Its shares on the Paris stock exchange surged 8.1 percent in heavy trading of more than 3. 7 mil­lion shares. 
The great race 
Bon voyage, indeed! Two Associated Press reporters traveled from Paris to London Monday, Patrick McDowell on an TOTAL Air France flight and Christopher Burns on the new Eurostar train, which zips through the Channel Tunnel. Who turned • up first in Trafalgar Square? . 
·······~·······················~················~············•··~ 

~~·······~···································~JI>·················· •........~...
1 

Note: All costs in U.S. dollars 
Paris-London Eurostar, arrived
on time at London's Waterloo Station after a three-hour, six-minute ride. The London-Brus­sels train ran on schedule in three hours, 15 minutes, and the London-Paris train arrived four minutes early. 
But the second and last Lon­don-Brussels train of the day experienced a 50-minute delay in the tunnel, for unspecified technical reasons. Railway offi­cials said passengers would be reimbursed for their tickets. 
Cabin attendants in yellow and blue uniforms designed by Pierre Balmain staffed the trains. Meals were served to first-class passengers, with Monday morning's fare a Franco-British mix of crois­sants, bread, ham, cheese and orange marmalade. 
The 794 passengers on the Paris-London train left the Gare du Nord for London's Waterloo Station. Ten minutes after de­parture, the $40 million, 18-car train hit its top speed of 187 mph. 
It slowed to 100 mph for the 20 minutes it took to pass through the twin 31.4-mile tun­nels, one in eaeh direction, bored 132 feet under the En­glish Channel's chalk seabed from near Calais to Folkestone, England. A third tunnel is for maintenance and emergencies. 
First-class passengers pay the equivalent of $308 for round­trip passage, while those in sec­ond class pay $248, or $150 with advance reservations. Children younger than 12 ride for half price. and children 
Watch for the upcoming Air Force pullout in Friday's Observer 
L::~;;;;:,~~:r;::;-------::=============================~~~~
younger than 4 ride free. 
The prices are comparable to the airfare between Paris and London. 
Round-trip ferry prices at this time of year range from $29 per car and up to five people for a 24-hour stay, to $240 per car and up to nine people, valid for a year. The ferry takes about an hour longer to cross the channel. 
Commercial service on the Channel Tunnel is beginning with four round trips daily ­two each on the London-Paris and Brussels-London routes. Hourly departures are expected in the second half of 1995. 
"Le Shuttle," which ferries trucks through the tunnel, has been in service for several months and will eventually also ferry passenger cars. 
Construction began on the Chunnel, as the tunnel is known, in 1987. It was origi­nally scheduled to open in March 1993, but was repeat­edly delayed. Three test runs for VIPS and journalists last month met with embarrassing technical problems and delays. 
The Eurostar is a modified version of the French TGV high-speed train, built with a complex power system to adapt to French, British and Belgian electrical currents. 
Eleven giant satellite-guided boring machines dug the un­dersea tunnels, which were completed in mid-1991. 
IMAGINE YOUR IDEA ON THE BACKS OF 40,000 IRISH FANS 
PLUS FREE BOOKS FOR THE SPRING 
DESIGN THE SHIRT '95 
ENTER YOUR CHOICE OF ORIGINAL ARTWORK TO 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, 315 LaFORTUNE. 
ENTRIES MUST NOT EXCEED 12" X 15" 
LATEST CONSIDERATION DATE IS NOV. 21, 1994 
SKETCH MUST INCORPORATE A THEME 
EXAMPLES DISPLAYED IN THE EAST HALLWAY OF THE HUDDLE INCLUDE: 
-1990  NOTREDAMELANDMARKS  
-1991  150 YEARS OF EXCELLENCE  
-1992  THE TRADITION CONTINUES  

AND THE TWO MOST POPULAR EVER -1993 ONWARD TO VICTORY -1994 WAKE UP THE ECHOES 
• SPRING SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS PAID BY ND BOOKSTORE -ANY SELECTED ENTRY BECOMES PROPERTY OF "THE SHIRT." -APPLICANT MUST STATE IN WRITING THAT SUBMITTED 
ARTWORK IS THEIR OWN ORIGINAL WORK. 


VIEWPOINT 
•  000NESBURY  
800P51!3, &Vt:NAN At.7&RNA?E OWOiANGE 7H&c:aJR!X ()I=1-11'3701<'// I  £XQ/!3& M&, Af?£Ya17HE I-IUSE3ANI/? \  

GARRY TRUDEAU 

OF COURS&, YOU COUWAl-'30 §TART A MAJOR RIOT. &tme< NAY; OUR. l!Vt:f3 a!IU. NEV­e< !3C 7H& 5AMEl 
\ 
• QmllE OF THE DAY 
''Humility, a sense of rev­
erence before the sons of heaven-of all the prizes that a mortal man might win, these, I say, are wisest; these are best." 
-Euripides 

Tuesday, November 15, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..........•...............•.......... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poli<ies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi~ torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 , Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• liFE AFTER fiNALS 
Info best acquired on-line 

page 7 
WVFI claims UnivE~rsity fails to fulfill promises 
Dear Editor: WVFI is going through some exciting 
We at WVFI-AM 640 are great believ­transitions, with tighter and more inter­ers in the potential of the Notre Dame esting formats and accessibility of the community. We feel that all students music. Once again, we firmly believe should be supportive of the efforts of that certain areas of the University others. could be more supportive of our noble 
Being a service to Notre Dame stu­goals of musical, cultural and political dents, WVFI affords the opportunity to experience music of artistic integrity, 
'This raises the interesting 
multicultural leanings, and educational value. In return for our effort and work, question of whether certain we would specifically like to have more services of the University are effort and work on the part of the supportive of student interests, Dining Hall, LaFortune and the students 
or whether they choose to fear
in general, to expand the listenership 
change and educational ex­
and arena of music that WVFI aims for. 
When attempting expansion, our sta­pansion.' tion has run into certain obstacles which at times seem insurmountable. expression and discussion. So help us We would like to see WVFI become by applying pressure to listen to the sta­more accessible and this requires steps. tion with artistic: eredibility and mind Promises have been made by both expansion_ Pressure dining halls, North Dining Hall and LaFortune, and LaFortune monitors, whoever. And promises have not been kept. This rais­keep tuned in to WVFI; we have enjoyed es the interesting question of whether the immense support of students thus certain services of the University are far. supportive of student interests, or whether they choose to fear change and STEVEN SOSTAK educational expansion_ WVFI Executive Board 
Gays in the military make sense 
Dear Editor: 
Watching the news recently, I learned that the Navy is again under fire for sexual assault. In the current incident, a number of women stationed in San Diego are accusing their male instructors of attempting to demand sex in exchange for pass­ing grades in their courses. One cannot help but recall the Tailhook incident in Las Vegas where over 80 women were sexually assaulted by their male counterparts in the Navy. 
But do not think that the Navy is alone in being able to neither control the men nor protect the women serving our country. The Army is currently facing a situa­tion at West Point where three female cadets have acC'Jsed a group of male stu­dents of groping and otherwise improperly touching them. 
Clearly, this all reinforces a long-standing maxim: Heterosexuality is incompat­ible with military service. 
MIKE MILLER 
Consultant/Analyst Office of University Computing 

It's not as if I'm alone on some uncharted desert isle, with Gilligan, the Skipper too ... 
It's just that, as a child of CNN and cable TV, I'm used to having information from all around the world available at a moment's notice. Why wait for the news when we can pay the basic subscriber's fee and have it all in our living room (right down to the number of times O.J. scratched himself in court today) right now. 
But when it comes to getting informa­tion on what's going on at Notre Dame, my means are, by 
comparison. going 
PauI 
at a snail's pace. In that regard, I might 
as well be stuck in 
Pearson
the middle of the ocean, without even a Ginger or a Mary Ann to keep me company. 
The problem is compounded by the fact that I live in a part of the country (the Southeast) that could be described as a "non-Notre Dame friendly" territo­ry. It is tough to find out what's going on at your favorite campus when the people around you think that Notre Dame is somewhere in either Massachusetts or upstate New York. 
Not that our beloved University doesn't try. There are several ways for alumni to get information on our alma mater, but they don't satisfy my craving for instant (or at least immediate) knowl­edge. 
For example, there is Notre Dame Magazine, edited by my former profes­sor Walton Collins. This quarterly publication is sent to all alums and con­tains in-depth, thought-provoking pieces on many of the issues we face as Americans and Christians today. It also lists updates on what members of the various classes are doing now. For ex­ample, through this magazine, I learned that one of my friends now is conducting tours of the Pyramids in Egypt. (I won­der if he can get NBC in Cairo.) 
Great for keeping up on fellow alums, but not really suited for my need for up­to-date campus news. Besides, it would be unfair to expect that from a quarterly publication. 
Then, there's Alumni, the newsletter of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. It is printed three times a year and con­tains announcements from various alumni clubs as well as the fund raisers, programs and other events the Alumni Association is sponsoring, as well as a 
column from my 
former rector, 
Father Bill Seetch, 
who also happens 
to be the Alumni 
Association's chap­
lain. 
Again, great for 
keeping abreast of 
alumni info, but not 
what I'm looking 
for when I want to know what the current students are doing. 
Finally, there's The Observer, the rag that I once called home. This is much better for keeping up with campus news, but even this has a drawback for a Notre Dame graduate who lives 1,000 miles away-the mail. Yesterday, I read about the poor graduate student who dropped acid (a jar of it, that is), and I wanted to write a column about it. However. my Obs_ervers get to me about a week to 10 days after they are published, so by the time I get them, the news already is old. 
Fortunately, there is hope for me. I recently purchased a new computer and subscribe to America Online, which allows me to speak to computers all over the country through the Internet. I can read newspapers, chat with other sub­scribers and send instant messages on the information superhighway. 
That is, once I get the Professor to show me how it works. 
Paul Pearson '93 is a former Observer news writer. He can be reached through e-mail at "paulp74115@aolcom. " 
ACCENT
page 8 Tuesday, November 15, 1994 
• RANDOM MEANDERINGS 
Ommming in Colorado: Meditation 101 
ver fall break I visited 
my friend at the 
University of Colorado 
in Boulder. Ah, Boulder. One 
of the few places you could 
walk the streets wearing a Dr. 
Seuss hat and tattered cloth­
ing specially tailored to reveal 
your tattoos and multiple body 
piercings, and no one would 
Jenny Shank 
blink a (pierced) eye. My 
Accent Columnist 
friend invited me to visit her 
meditation class. I've never been one to pass up 
an opportunity to meditate, so I accepted. 

I entered the "classroom" and a waft of incense 
hit me. My friend invited me to join her class­
mates in the circle of overstuffed chairs, but I de­
clined and sat in the far corner of the room. My 
friend's classmates all looked as though they had 
taken a wrong turn on the way to Woodstock or 
to the filming of "Reality Bites." 
We were in luck. Today there was a guest speaker to share his meditation techniques. The balding man informed us that he had decided that he wanted to grow back his hair, and that since he had been meditating on growing hair, hair had started to grow. A Cobain-esque stu­dent with a particularly glazed expression raised his hand and asked, "So ...if meditating on grow­ing hair changes your genetic code, will your children not go bald?" 
"Actually," Mr. Meditation replied, "I believe the gene for baldness is passed through the woman." 
"So," Kurt continued, his bloodshot eyes raised questioningly, "If your wife were to meditate on having MOHE hair..." 
The meditation class is a lot like my calculus class, except in calculus we have to do home­work and take tests, closing our eyes in class is not encouraged, and our teacher doesn't wear "moon crystals" or go around uttering incanta­tions to "cleanse his cosmic self." 
When I got back to Notre Dame, I eagerly anticipated receiving my DART book so that I could be sure to sign up for a meditation class. Alas, I found none offered. Perhaps Notre Dame should implement a few changes in course offer­ings. 
First of all, Notre Dame should establish a College of Roadie-ology, so that aspiring concert­technicians like myself can be schooled in the roadie arts. Once this college is established, all Notre Dame students will be able to take "The Enigma of the Mosh Pit," and "Microphone Checking 101." 
I think that all freshman should be required to take "The Way of the Leprechaun." This class is for all those people who just don't understand that when the Leprechaun does push-ups at foot­ball games, he PAUSES before the last one. You would think that Notre Dame's rigorous admis­sion procedures would have weeded out all the people who couldn't understand this concept after seeing it demonstrated 57 times. Perhaps electric shock therapy could be implemented in particularly stubborn cases. 
I would enjoy taking a class entitled "The Chia Pet and You" in which students would nurture several Chia Pets. Students would attempt to discover which type of Chia grows best-the tra­ditional Chia Ram, or one of the exciting new varieties: Chia Sloth, Chia Fruit Bat or Chia Orangutan. The students' final grade would be based on the thickness of their Chia's coat. Please note that compensating for lack of Chia growth by adding bean sprouts is a violation of the Honor Code as outlined in DuLac in section 691.24. 
I think Notre Dame should offer a class on the philosophy of Grab & Go. Its primary focus would be the nature of the sandwich. There seems to be two schools of thought on the mat­ter. One school holds that a sandwich is no dif­ferent than all the other "things." For example, if one believed this premise, one could select five milks or five cookies to fulfill one's quota of five items. The other school believes that the sand­wich is an entity entirely different from the other "things," so even if one did not select a sand­wich, they could only select four additional "things." In "The Philosophy of Grab & Go," stu­dents would explore the essential duality of the sandwich. Does its "thing-ness" compromise its "sandwich-ness"? 
Perhaps I'm just dreaming. Perhaps I'll never see Planner turned into the administration build­ing for the College of Roadie-ology. But through the wonders of meditation, anything is possible. Okay, everyone assume the Lotus position ... 
•

ACE IS the place 
Social service program gaining popularity among students 
By SHANNON FORBES 
Accent Writer 
For some seniors graduating next 
year, social service work for a year 
or two sounds immensely appealing. 
The Alliance for Catholic Education 
program (ACE), is one service option 
created by its director, Father 
Timothy Scully, and is particularly 
suited for students interested in pur­
suing careers in education. 
The program is gaining popularity. Kara Courtois, a 1994 Notre Dame alumna who is currently teaching in the ACE program in Jacksonville, Florida, advised students that they had absolutely nothing--to lose by applying. She admits that it may in­timate students that only 40 students make it into ACE each year, but she cites herself as an example of a suc­cess story. 
"I never really thought that I would get into the program, but I did. Everyone has a chance," Courtois said. 
Scully offered encouragement. "The interest in the ACE program, among Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College seniors is both exciting and gratifying. My only concern is that people will think the program is so competitive that people cannot get in. Nothing could be further from the truth. We're looking for fine peo­ple who possess a variety of qualities and you just can't tell who will be part of this program next year," he said. He strongly encouraged all interested people to apply . 
ACE is an opportunity for students to explore education as a vocation, and also supply enthusiastic teachers to much needed communities in the Southeastern United States. Participants work as full time teach­ers in the community for two years. 
After the two-year period has elapsed, the teachers receive a mas­ters degree in education and an Americorps Teaching Award, which is a $4725 education award that can be used to either pay off loans or fur­ther teaching education. 
In addition to these awards, partic­ipants benefit from a feeling of satis­faction that Scully feels is compara­ble to no other. "Teachers know, God knows, and the students know that these teachers are the best and the brightest of graduates who are help­ing the community and becoming educated for the rest of their lives. Teaching is the most extraordinary occupation," said Scully. 
Although teaching can be difficult, there are also rewarding experiences as well. Courtois remembered one incident in particular: "I had an eval­uation from my superintendant. On that day I taught about Thanksgiving and read to the class The Giving Tree by Shel Silverstein. It was a real moral thing. Then they had to write a letter to God on why they were thankful. Each student just wrote a beatiful letter. Not all grammatically correct, but they all came from the heart." 
People within the communities wel­come ACE participants because the locals understand and recognize that ACE teachers are fulfilling the need for positive teachers. The ACE par­ticipants, faculty, and the community that they live in are the main sources of support. According to Scully, "The focus is on cooperation, not com­petition". 
Liz Connors, a psychology major interested in teaching elementary school, sees ACE as a good opportu­nity. "I think the best part of the program is the active teaching. Participants are actually placed in the classroom as teachers, as opposed to being a teacher's aid or working under a mentor." 
ACE is an alliance between the University of Notre Dame, the National Catholic Conference of 
Bishops Department of Education, and the National Catholic Education Association. ACE operates according to the theory that Jesus is a central figure in education. 
Last year when ACE first began, the program successfully placed forty Notre Dame graduates as teachers in both rural and urban communities. It presently places enthusiastic Notre Dame graduates in Oklahoma, Louisiana, Florida, and Alabama, although the popularity of this orga­nization is beginning to spread into North and South Carolina, Georgia, Mississippi, and beyond. An average of five participants live together in a community, which is something that senior Kristin Bencze, found particu­larly appealing about ACE. "It's nice to know that I would be so close to other people going through the same situation," Bencze said. 
For this reason, Associate Director, Sean McGraw wishes that people applying to the ACE program not look at the application process as extremely competitive. "We are looking for well-balanced, enthusias­tic people of all academic disciplines and majors who have a strong inter­est in teaching," he said. The appli­cation process is as follows: 
•All 
candidates must have re­ceived, or expect to receive, a bache­lor's degree by the summer following the date of application. 

•Although 
it may be helpful, no previous education coursework is required or expected. 

•Those 
with strong aptitudes in mathematics, natural sciences, or foreign language and those of vary­ing cultural and ethnic backgrounds are especially encouraged to apply. 

•In 
addition to the application form, candidates are asked to submit 


typed responses to two essay topics. Relevant information for these essays might include family background, re­ligious motivations and experience, volunteer work and other informa­tion not apparent in other parts of the application. 
•Applicants 
are required to include: three recommendations, official transcripts, a list of extracur­ricular activities and work experi­ence, and an official copy of the can­didates' most recent physical. 

•Candidates 
should submit an application form and accompanying materials by February 1, 1995. 


During June 4-23, chosen partici­pants will take part in an intensive summer teacher training program at Notre Dame, and on August 6 the participants will arrive at the select­ed dioceses. The participants are required to do at least 1700 hours of service in the classroom, and are given $9000 to live in their commu­nity. The participants will serve wherever there is a need and high demand for teachers. 
Scully is elated with the success of this program during its first year. Last year, more that two-hundred people applied. The program accept­ed forty applicants. All forty appli­cants began and finished the pro­gram and all forty are currently teachers. The program continues to grow and gain support. Scully feels that the demonstrated interest is due to people's understanding of the value of teaching. 
"Teaching is both an art and a sci­ence," Scully said. "ACE participants recognize this. They are well-chosen and well-prepared. They will be challenged, but these special people are a sign of hope and inspiration to everyone." 

Vae ,~es of b\ an_\~ 
be. beard nroo nd.. tu or \0, ±e.ars 


(ave on~ 
Sb(3n\.s of ·~crraw 
] e..nr~ 


_foe \6., e ot\eg £}outs J .!orro w Qr 1e nfS o{! sa~ 1\eS.Thos e. 




;ACCENT
Tuesday, November 15, 1994 page 9 
• MEDICAl MINUTE 
What's Hot and What's Not 
When it comes to tanning, protection lS • key for skin 
By JOANNE PAVIN natural sunlight. Accent Columnist Tanning bed' s high intensity 
of both UV-A and UV-B radia­
There is a month and a half tion can alter the body' s im­away until Christmas vacation munological systems and can and whether your plans activate up to 40 diseases. include a raging excursion to Some medications mixed with the Rockies or a super voyage UV light exposure can cause a to sunny Florida, make sure phototoxic reaction, increasing you remember your protection, skin sensitivity, causing severe skin protection that is. sunburn or allergic reactions. 
Many people do not remem­Doctors may use UV light to ber that their skin is an organ, treat some diseases, but only the largest organ in the body, after investigating the risks of and that it can be damaged, if such treatment. not treated, with care. A sun tan may be sexy and somewhat Contrary to popular belief healthy, but excessive exposure there is no such thing as tan-to ultra violet(UV) light can ning without injury to the skin. cause irreversible damage and If you must tan, two very effec­possibly cancer. It is over expo­tive weapons are sunscreen sure to UV light that can turn a and common sense. gorgeous face into a grotesque Dermatologists suggest that wrinkle. sunscreen should be worn all 
year round because your skin 
The sun may be 93 million is exposed to UV light every miles from the earth, but it still time you go outside. It is also has the power to radiate ultra important to use a more pow-violet rays that can penetrate erful sunscreen when your skin the earth' s atmosphere. Ultra is exposed to the sun more violet radiation is the most ac-often. tive part of the light spectrum. When planning a vacation There are two forms of ultra plan your tan as well. Melanin violet radiation, ultra violet is the dark pigment of the skin. A(UV-A) rays and ultra violet A sun tan is the increased pro-B(UV-B) rays. duction of melanin in the skin. 
It was once thought that ultra There are products now avail-violet A rays were to be risk able that prime your skin for free or "safe rays", but these sun exposure by encouraging rays can actually penetrate the the formation of melanin. skin deeper than ultra violet B These products are called tan-rays, the rays that are com-ning accelerators. monly considered more harm-Tanning accelerators supply ful. UV-A rays may cause the skin, face and body with ty-Tanning accelerators should be used daily for one to two weeks prior to sun exposure. 
Some sun care products con­tain both tyrosine and dihy­droxyacetone(DHA), a chemical derivative of glucose that acts on the surface of the skin and on the dead cells to lend a golden color. It is considered safe because the DHA does not penetrate the skin. This prod­uct is perfect to use a few hours before sun exposure since the color it lends serves as protection against UV rays. 
A big NO, NO is to try tanning all at once, your body simply can not accelerate its produc­tion of melanin in time to pro­teet your skin. Sunburn is the result of this hasty and irre­sponsible behavior. Sunburn is the worst injury to the skin and it only takes half an hour to burn unprotected skin. Acute sunburn is caused by the sun's electromagnetic radiation which produces a photochemi­cal reaction affecting DNA cellular protein. This results in blood vessel injury, causing redness, swelling, and blister formation. Even when your burn is gone the damage still remains. Eventually it will cause the break down of colla­gen and elastic fibers in the skin, leaving behind wrinkles and an aged rugged look. 
Sunburn prevention can be achieved through the use of longer or 7. 5 hours without burning. It is wise to choose a higher SPF the more fair skinned you are. 
Since no one ingredient can offer full prote~tion from UV-A and UV-B rays, the best sun­screens combine para­aminobenzoic acid(PABA) its esters (glycerol, padimate A, 
S
unburn is the worst injury to skin, and it only takes half an hour to burn unprotected skin. 
padimate 0), and Benzophenones (oxybenzone, methox benzone, and sul­fisobenzone). 
PABA sunscreens with high percentages of PABA in an al­cobol base proves to irritate the skin. Many people who are allergic to PABA may not be al­lergic to PABA esters, and those who have reactions to PABA sunscreens may be al­lergic to another ingredient such as a fragrance or alcohol. It is best to examine the con­tent of the sunscreen product before applying it to the skin and if you are unaware of skin allergies you possibly may have, test the product on a small skin patch. 
Moderate sun exposure with proper precaution can be If left untreated, skin cancer le­sions can spread, invade or­gans, and may become life threatening. 
People most vulnerable to the skin cancer are those whose jobs require long hours in the sun and those who have fair skin and light colored eyes. 
Some experts believe that the most common skin cancers, basal cell and squamos cell carcinomas, are caused by reg­ular sun exposure. Sun ex­posure can damage epidermal and dermal cells, affecting both melanocytes and keratinocytes and possibly causing genetic changes. Sunlight absorbed into the immune system also has the potential to weaken immunities to cancer. 
Basal cell carcinoma is the least severe and the most com­mon form of skin cancer. It starts as an open sore that has not healed after several weeks, or as a smooth bump that may bleed. It may occur on the face and· other sun exposed areas. This type of skin cancer is rarely fatal, but may spread to ~ ear, eye, the nose, or other organs. 
Squamos cell carcinoma is less common, but more serious than basal cell. Squamos cllll carcinoma is usually a mole that has raised and is pink in 
color.  It  appears  on  sun  
exposed  body  parts.  The  
squamos  cell  cancer  will  

spread to the lymph nodes and 

health problems includ-----------------------,----------------------, more vital organs such 
ing premature damage 
t.o the skin, an in­creased risk of skin can­cer, and harm to the cornea and lens of the eye. Repeated exposure may even cause cataract. UV-B rays will cause similar dam­age, however, warning signs of possible dam­age are more apparent because the burn is visi­ble. UV-A ray damage goes unnoticed because it is beneath the surface of the skin and the burn is not apparent. 
The sun is strongest on clear bright days, however, burning UV rays can penetrate through cloud cover, haze and even fog. Whatever the forecast, you are going to be exposed to some UV rays every day, espe­cially between the hours of 11 a.m. and 3 p.m., when the sun is most direct. The UV rays gradually grow more intense the closer you are to the equator, where the sun strikes the earth most directly. UV rays are stronger at higher altitudes where the earth' s atmosphere is thinner. The higher you go, the less capable the atmosphere is to ab­sorb the sun's rays. 
Tanning beds may be popular and readily available to supply quick satis-rosine. Tyrosine, an amino acid fying color, but can actually do present in the skin, is the pre­more harm to your skin than cursor of melanin. The sun' s natural sunlight. The UV-A UV rays activate the tyrosine in rays are 100 times stronger in the skin and convert it to tanning beds than in natural melanin. It is known, for in-sunlight. Beds also radiate up stance, that fair-skinned people to 5% of UV-B rays, which are low in melanin producing account for less than 1% of capabilities because they do 
not have high tyrosine levels. 
sunscreen. Sunscreens usually display a Sun Protection Factor(SPF). The SPF is anum­her that refers to how long you may be exposed to UV light be­fore burning. For example, if your skin type burns In a half hour and you use a sunscreen with a SPF of 15, it means that you can stay out 15 times healthy and beneficial to the body and its production of vi­tamin D. Excess exposure to UV light, however, can be dan­gerous and sometimes fatal. Sun exposure has been the leading cause in most of there-ported skin cancers. If detected and treated early, 90 percent of all skin cancers are durable. 
as the lungs and brain. 
Malignant melonoma is the deadliest form of skin cancer and is becoming more com­mon. Early signs of melanoma include changes in pre-existing moles .or the appear­ance of a black or mul­ticolored patch where one never existed be­fore. These changes are commonly described by dermatol­ogists as the ABCD's of melanoma. "A" stands for asymmetrical, or if a line were to be drawn down the center it would not leave matching halves. "B" stands for border, or uneven edges differeD­tial to the smooth even borders of normal moles. "C" stands for color; often malignant melanomas have two or more colors, normal moles are usually one color. "D" stands for diameter; melanomas are usually larger than normal moles which are about six mil­limeters in diameter. 
D e r m a t o I o g i s t s advise individuals to bring even a normal mole to attention because only they can tell whether it is cancer producing or not. 
It is obvious that 
today with the ozone depletion, research on the dan­gers of ultra violet light, and the knowledge of cancer people are smarter about skin protec­tion. It is just the matter of putting those smarts into action. Well healthy tanning and remember, a golden glow may be great to show but your skin will be the first to go. 

I I -I I I I 
I 
• I 

page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, November 15, 19941 
• BOXING 
Foreman meets the press 
By JOHN NELSON 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Twenty years after losing his heavyweight title to Muhammad Ali, George Foreman has it again, and he says he's finally ready for THE REMATCH. 
"It's time for Muhammad Ali. I want him now. I didn't want him in the '70s, but I want him now." 
Foreman was being his silly self again obviously, dispens­ing advice for the aged and waxing eloquent on the virtues of cheeseburgers at a New York City news confer­ence at which he had absolutely nothing to announce, not even his cur­rent weight. 
And, yes, Foreman said, he did hear from his 52-year-old former nemesis after he knocked out Michael Moorer in the lOth round for the IBF and WBA versions of the heavyweight championship on Nov. 5 in Las Vegas. 
Foreman said Ali sent him a poster which read: "Congratulations champ. you had the courage and guts to go out and do it." 
"He signed it with a big heart on the bottom," Foreman said. "When he says you've got guts, that's some­thing special." 
As for his future, Foreman talked like he would be a busy champion. 
He spoke of a possible re­match for Moorer "because he gave me this opportunity." 
He said a fight with fellow 45-year-old Larry Holmes would be a natural, but could prove a problem for ringsiders. "The smell of lina­ment would be overwhelming, and people would be fighting to get into the bleachers," Foreman said. "There would be bones cracking and joints creaking." 
He would love to fight Mike Tyson when he gets out of prison in Indiana, probably next spring, "because he wouldn't run from me. That's the one thing I'd love to have, a guy attacking me. I might even have to do the Ali shuf­fle." 
• NFL FOOTBAll 

Miracle quarterback revives Bengals 
By JOE KAY 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI What can Jeff Blake possi­blydo for an encore? 
Throw for 350 yards? The Cincinnati Bengals quarterback has done it two weeks in a row now. 
Throw four touchdowns in a game? He did that Sunday in a 34-31 victory over the Houston Oilers. 
Lead the downtrodden Bengals to a win? He's done it twice. 
Get an entire city giddy? He's done that, too. 
The NFL's most surprising quarterback is running out of heights to reach after just three starts. Perhaps the only one not overwhelmed by the show is Blake, who prefers to think of it all as a beginning. 
''I'm not stopping now," Blake said. "I've gotten this far." 
It's a sign of the times that nobody doubts him. The 166th pick in the 1992 draft has taken apart the league's best defenses and gotten everyone around him -except incumbent starter David Klingler -caught up in the moment. 
There hasn't been this much excitement around here since the days when Boomer threw deep and Ickey shuffied in the end zone. 
"He's the magic man," run­ning back Derrick Fenner said. "I told him he's got the magic working." 
His third NFL start was simply magical. Blake played the sec­ond half Sunday on a mangled left ankle that made him limp betweeri plays and change his throwing style. 
"In the second half, I had to throw off my back foot," he said. 
The pain got so bad that he had to be helped off the field after throwing a 50-yard touch­down pass to Carl Pickens. They Blake him off to the X-ray room as fans gave a standing ovation. No fracture was found, so Blake rode back to the res­cue -call it Hollywood on the Ohio River. 
Naturally, he led the Bengals on two scoring drives that won the game. Could it have ended any other way? 
"In other weeks, we would have found eight different ways to lose," said Doug Pelfrey, who kicked a game-winning 40-yard field goal as time expired. "This week we found a way to win." 

Pelfrey ended the afternoon rolling on the field with team­mates. A nearby banner pro­claimed Blake for president. Fans honked their horns in a loud chorus as they drove away from Riverfront Stadium. 
And what of Blake? He was perhaps the only one not im­pressed by the performance that inspired it all. 
"This was one of the worst games I've had mentally," Blake said. "Mentally I made a lot of mistakes, but people don't see that. I made four or five mental mistakes and that's something you can't do. I got away with them because of my athletic ability." 
His luck was holding out Monday. The ankle injury turned out to be not as serious as the team initially thought. 
Doctors feared he might have broken the ankle or damaged ligaments when a pass rusher fell on it in the first half. Trainer Paul Sparling said more X-rays Monday found no severe damage. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classified~ 
NOTICES 
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS 
10-6m-sat pandora's books 
NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat 
233-2342 cool stuff cool store 
Anybody need a ride to St. Louis for Thanksgiving? I'm leaving Wednesday (11/23) at 2pm. If inter­ested, call Alex at X3946. 
AN OPEN ADOPTION I am a little girl whose mom and dad would love to give me a baby sister or brother for my third birth: day. We know you have many tough decisions to make, so come and meet with us at our home, to see if we are the family that you would choose to raise your child. Be assured that we want you and your baby to be a part of our lives. Help us Increase our immediate and extended family. Support and counselling available. Please call my mom and dad (Laurie and Tony) anytime. 1-800-840-0PEN 
ILOST & FOUND I 
found-{)utside of Hesburgh about a week ago. a woman's tennis bracelet. call 634-3918. 
Lost: Black mountain bike-broken front reflector, letters "Silver Ridge" on the side. Stolen on Thurs. out­side of South Dining Hall after din­ner. Return to Stanford-no ques­tions asked 4-2087 
FOUND: Man's class ring in restroom In DeBartolo. Call 273­5935 to identify 
WANTED 
Lon ley? I'll keep you company in your car IF you are driving to D.C. for break! Will help w/gas, tolls etc. X3607 
A.F. G.A's' LOW' LOW' PRICES wouldn't be as good as SKETCH COMEDY ala PYTHON,SNL NEED WRITERS AND ACTORS 9PM WED 11/16 MONTGOMERY THEATER, LA FORTUNE. CALL MARK 271-1400, BOB 4-1661 
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK 
'951 LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA, 
CANCUN. FLORIDA, PADRE. 
BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1 
ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL 
FREEl SUN SPLASH TOURS1­
800-426-n10 
EARN INCOME 
HAVE FUN MARKETING 
ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY 
PRODUCTS, HOLlOA Y GIFT 
BASKETS. CALL ME TODAY, 
START MAKING MONEY 
TOMORROW -674-9634. 
ATTENTION AMBITIOUS, SELF­MOTIVATED Students. The ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is currently interviewing students for Summer '95 management posi­tions. Earn money in excess of $10.000. Call now, 1-800-4n-1001 for a campus representative. 
HURRY! MGMT. POSITIONS FILLING QUICKLY. T.A.S.P. INTERNATIONAL SEEKS MOTIVATED APPLICANTS. EARN $8-10 THOUSAND NEXT SUMMER RUNNING A $40,000 BUSINESS. GREAT RESUME BUILDER. CONTACT MICHAEL WILLIS AT 1-80o-543­3792 OR X2040. 
I NEED A RIDE TO MIDWAY APT 11/23 for 5:15 flight-can you help? '"PLEASE CALL BRIAN x1058'" 
FOR RENT 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­n3-2034 
WANTED: LAW/MBA/GRAD STUDENT TO SHARE FURNISHED APT FOR SPRING SEMESTER. CALL 273-6418 FOR MORE INFO. 
Looking for a male I female room­mate at Castle Point. $ 280/mo +all utilities, with cable TV, until may of '95 call272-1663 
6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. FALL 95. 272-6306 
1,2 & 3 BC,"lM HOMES. AVAIL­ABLE NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 
UPSTAIRS APT., 3 LG. BR. , KITCHEN, BATHROOM. ALL UTIL­ITIES INCLUDED. PRIVATE PARKING & ENTRANCE, 4-5-6 STUDENTS OK. $500/MO. + $500 DEPOSIT. CALL DOUG MILLIKEN 288-7319 ANYTIME, 1517 1/2 LWW, NEXT DOOR TO VITO'S BARBER SHOP. 
FOR SALE 

Spring Break Early Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise, 6 days & 12 meals $279! Panama City Oceanvlew Kitchens $1291 Cancun & Jamaica $3991 Daytona $159! Keys $229! CocoaBeach $159! 1­800-678-6386 
EA HOCKEY lor IBM 1994 players with trades, etc ... almost brand new, has all books and the registration form. best offer; call Tom at 4-1712 
4 Sale Notebook 486 OX 33MHz 240HD 8 mem 16 gray monitor with mouse and case $1200 also Desktop 386DX 33MHz 80MD 4mem with SVGA monitor, fax, modem, handscaner, and tape backup $500 call 272-1663 
For Sale: Fender Strat-$300 Call233-5130 
FOR SALE: 1978 OLDS 98 RUNS VERY WELL CALL CHRIS @ 273-9083 
FOR SALE: IBM compatible 486, w/color monitor, keyboard, mouse loaded with software-microsoft office,windows,lotus, harvard graphics-$900 or best offer -X0640 
1way plane ticket to Boston for Dec2D---best offer-JP@4013 
TICKETS 

I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. 272-6551 
FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL HOME GAMES. 272-7233. 
I NEED AF GA's DAVE 634-1198 
Need 2 A/F GA's Andy 289-3736 
AF, SO. CAL GA'S FOR SALE. 288-1186. 
Need A.F. Tix-stu or GAs Mark 289-6988 
Need 3 Air Force Stu. Tix Bill271-9471 
.......... PLEASE HELP\"'''"'' I NEED 2 AIR FORCE TICKETS CALL CHRISSY x3098 -THANKS 
I NEED AF GA's Call Brian 4-1861 I need 2, 3 or 5 AF GAs 
Rob x1816 
I NEED 1 AF stud or GA 
KERRY 4879 
$ HELP! Need Air Force GA's $ call x3882 Ask For Miss Debartolo 
I NEED 2 AF GAs OR STUD TIXI 
CALL USA 272-6460 
need 6 USC tix desperately call x4084 ask 4 pia 
Help! 
I need one Air Force student ticket or GA lor my sister. Call Brian at 
277-5720 
For Sale: 2 USC GAs 
X 3373 
-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.­
Need Air Force GAs 2 or 4 together Call Mork Bisquette X3309 or 3300 
-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.­
NEED STUD OR GA TIX FOR AF. CALL KEVIN 289-0714. 
NEED 2 AF GA's. Chris x3407 
I NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S 288-9750 
HELP I I Need 1 Air Force GAl Call Liz at x4541 
AIR FORCE St. Tix For Sale 211-1n4 
1 Phish @ MSU ticket lor sale Call Mary Beth@ x3861 
USC tickets for sale Call Jen x2338 
Need 2 AF tix for my brothers. Call Seth@ x2174 
"' FOR SALE ... Two Air Force GA's. Together on 40-yard line. Call Bill at 291-6216. 
... I need 1 to 3 GA's tor AF Please call Jerry 271-2956 
Will Pay Big Bucks for Slovakia tix. Desperate for 10 tixlll Call Sean 1176 or Timbo 1159. 
2 AF stu tix for sale, 272-5842 
Need 4AFGAs Chad X3368 
HELP! I need 2 stud tlx for AIR FORCE. Call EILEEN 272-8606 
I need two G.A.'s lor Air Force. Call Dave at x1891 2 Air Force GA's for Sale 235-3394 
2 STUDENT AIR FORCE TIX 
FOR SALE CALL X4054 
I need Air Force GA's and Stud Tix. Please call Greg @ 1620 
$$$$Help. I need Air Force Tickets. Please call Gina at 2n-0740.$$$ 
Needed: Two tickets for AF game for my sister and her friend. 
Please call Roger at x0959. 
NEED 2 AirForce GA's KATE 
x4898 
Need Air Force tix call Chris x3767 
Need 2 Air Force GAs call Pat x2213 
******.... Need 1 AF GA****•**... 
call Chad 289-9050 
Need stud or GA AF tickets Anne 271-9669 
########### WANTED: AIR FORCE tickets call Whitney @288-2589 
############ 
Need 1 Air Force stud. ticket, call x3650. 
NEED AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL JOE AT 4-2712. 
2 A.F. GAs 4 sale x2264 
PERSONAL 
Jeff Blake is the next best thing since sliced bread. He's agile in the pocket, gifted with a strong arm, and Is known to often throw 50 yard plus passes to Cart Pickens late in games to set up winning field goals. In just 3 starts he has already had 2 games where he threw for over 350 yards. Let me say that again: 2 out of 3 starts he's thrown for 350 yards ... and then some. Blake's the man. Who dey, who dey, who dey think gonna' beat them Bengals? 
Seamaisin at the Midway Tavern, 2 blocks So. of Hacienda on 4th Street.. .... Every Thursday 
Notre Dame's Traditional Irish Band ... Seamaisin .... 1st CD at the Bookstore, 2cd one by X-Mas 
YOU WILL BE VISITED BY THREE SPIRITS 
Qualify Copies, Quicklylll 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
We're Open Early, Late, & Weekends!!! 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 

Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 1 (800)359-9808 
MOM'S WORST NIGHTMARE 
COMES TRUE: You're going to be laughing with your mouth full ... SUB presents the dessert theatre: "PLAY IT AGAIN, SAM!" a Woody Allen play about one man's desire to be just like Humphrey Bogart ... Come enjoy YUMMY desserts and a WACKY pertormance on Nov. 16 at 8 PM in LaFortune Ballroom (doors open at 7:30). Tickets only $5; available at LaFort Info Desk or at the door. 
Drlvlng to NJ for Thanksgiving? I nMd a ride. Will help w/expenses. Elaine x2328 
bring the wookie to me... 

Need ride to Colombus, OH for thanksgiving. Will help pay exp. X4652 
THANKS DIRK & DAVE II we owe you one, Eve and Jackie 

From Kissing to Cringing Enjoy your GARDEN BURGER Samples Lover. 
First Loveshack, now MC Rob Base. What next ? SAMPLES ?I 
Did you have to change the light bulb Friday, Anne? At least the music was going strong II 
K & E -enjoy the garden burgers and tofu fried rice. You're going down. -T 
1, 2, 3 ... switcheroo II 

be on the lookout for a lost black shoe. 
if you were that tired, why'd you go out anyway :) 
how many times did you watch the movie, LC? 
Suz, why doesn't anyone love us? 
who's up for the "cute" party? 
-............... .
--............. -............... ­
~ 

Tuesday, November 15, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 

Irish swimmers win at Annapolis 
By GARRETT KERN Senior captain Jenni Dahl won by junior Ry Beville. "I felt Sports Writer finds that this approach will that I needed to redeem myself help the team prepare for their after a disappointing swim in The Notre Dame men's and upcoming meet with the Air the 200 free. Winning the flywomen's swim teams traveled Force Academy. "We have had was something I felt I needed to to Annapolis this weekend to a lot of big meets in the past do." As a whole, the team was 
take on the Naval Academy for weeks and it was nice to be overpowered by the fierce 
the first time in school history. able to relax and swim some determination that most teams "It was a battle," Head Coach different events before facing a have when they are at home Tim Welsh stated, "of two tough Air Force team." To versus any Notre Dame team. schools which are known for Notre Dame's credit, they were 
their tradition, discipline, and able to amass nine wins out the "We raced very well and were spirit." In the end, though, the eleven individual events with right in the middle of the pack Notre Dame women triumphed nine different swimmers. "Our in just about every event," said to maintain their undefeated ability to win that many events senior captain Andy Kiley. This season while the men fell to a with different people," says being the first meet for the vastly improved Navy team. Coach Welsh," is a tribute to Navy men, they were excited 
Both Navy's and Notre Dame's the depth on our team." and they showed it. It was a 
women's teams entered the meet which featured an NCAA meet without a blemish on their · Unfortunately, the Irish men qualifier in diving from Navy respective records. Coach did not fare as well as the and a heavily recruited fresh­
Welsch adjusted the line-up so women. Navy was able to win man class. "I felt that the men that he could get his swimmers both relay events and all but responded well to the challenge some experience in events they one individual event, that being of an away meet," remarked do not usually compete in. the 200 butterfly which was Coach Welsh. 
Spring 1995 Center for Social Concerns 

Sen1lna.·•·· 
The Mexico Seminar is a one-credit service-learning opportunity in Oaxaca, Mexico. During two weeks in late spring/early summer, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students provide service to a variety of people while experiencing the realities of Latin America directly. Cosponsored by Maryknoll, the program seeks to provide intercultural exchange through shared work experience in the context of a faith community. Students participate in fundraising efforts to lower costs. 
Two weeks in Oaxaca, Mexico: May 15 to May 31th, 1995 (leaving time for summer work) 
Service-learning cosponsored by Maryknoll 
(Call and Response Program) 
One credit Theology 
Spanish helpful but not required 
Information Meeting: 
Thursday, Nov. 17, 4:15PM at the Center (optional) 
Applications are available at the Center 
-Applications due Nov. 30th with deposit 
For more information: Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 Sara Skalicky, 634-4949 
SPRING
AS SEEN lAST APRIL ON CBS NEWS "41 HOURS"
BREAK 
J.RIV·If 1r'OV.RS,ELT &. $.~V·E! 
l;i·llji:I )·1·l ;j j b3 !·1~1·1 
I J.W·+M·13; •'i =I iH3: I I·B'•i·W·i:liB3:1 I[! j'il1il4j I kiI:t·•~'~l =r·B I 1'7·1I1tJ :I if·\'l3;13;I 3 3 [I 
PER PERSON DEPENDING ON OESTIKATION I BREAK DATES /LENGTH OF STAY 
1.;.·S00~.Sti·,_.CII4.S·E 
TOLL 111EE lloiFOI!WATJOJol &.I!ESEI!VATIOJoiS 




.-------~-~-~--------~-------------------~-----­
Tuesday, November 15, 1994 

The Observer • SPORTS page 12 

The Observer/Eric Ruethling 
A pass heads for Off-Campus senior Michelle Drury Sunday as she is flagged by a Siegfried defender, 
ception to end the game. Off Campus running back 
Watch Friday's 

Wo01en 
Sarah Donnelly said that both offenses struggled while the 
~\\ At1 
Observer for

continued from page 16 
defenses played outstanding. 
Women's Pairings

Before Drury played hero "We're pretty confident. We 
IH football 

again, the Slammers had a work well together. We have a 
" ()• 
•
1. Siegfried 6 / c,
m

chance to score as Marce lot of good talent," Donelly 
prevtews

McNeill pitched the ball to Sue added. 
8. B.P. 0 1. Siegfried 0 

Gallo as she rounded end in the open field. Drury said that with the offen­
, 4. 0-C 64. 0-C 18 
SPECIAL OFFER! 

With nothing, but the end sive struggle, the defense won 
5. Walsh 6 

zone in front of her, Gallo the game for Off Campus. "Our 
STUDENTS ONLY!
Cartier field 
4. 0-C

dropped the ball. On the follow­offense had a pretty tough time, 
Autographed by Joe Theismann, ing play Drury made the inter-but we pulled it off in the end." 
3. Lyons 13 I 3. Lyons 
award-winning book Notre Dame Football Today, reg. $49"S, now just
6. P.E. 0 
,November 20 at noon
3. Lyons 14 
$3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's 
Championship Game r2. Pangborn 0 Notre Dame Stadium 
the finest and most dramatic coffee­
2. Pangborn 6 
table book ever produced on ND 
football." A must for every student 
7. Lewis 0

Wanted: Reporters, 
and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
Call Kyle Dory: 
(219)634,1740

photographers and 
editors. 
t 
FACULTY

Join The Observer 
NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S 

staff!! 
SINGLES GROUP 
Social gatherings of single faculty have been sponsored since 1992. Regular gatherings take place on the third Thursday of each month. Come and meet new and continuing colleagues, single, divorced or widowed. 

:
. M-::;:::::::: ,::::·-·-·,=:=-•·=:<=·='====·=·-~:='=·:.:· __$_5
$5 l ,,,,,,..... 
REGULAR MONTHLY GATHERING

"'AWoody Aile .. ~ 
J;t 
Comedy ill 
Thursday, November 17 5:30 -6:30 p.m. 

., Dessert ~, 
~ Pig-Out I 
Lounge of the INN at St. Mary's

.. ..
Extraordinaire! 
W cecdl IID ce§ cdl2a1 y 9 NcrD wo Jl ciD Also: On December 15 at a member's home -Christmas Party
c;j Dessert st~rts at 7:30 ,!.~ Gj Playbegmsat8:00 ~ 
For further information call John Gerber, C.S.C 1-8601

«,,. LaFun Ballroomuuct 
or JoAnne Bunnage 1-4617

~~ti ~·.HIE. 
Co-sponsored by tile Singles Group and Campus Ministry

$5..-..-. -,.~ ~ 


~----~-------------------------------... 
page 13 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 15, 1994 
Men 
continued from page 16 
troversial illegal man downfield call nullified the score. The Studs failed to score the follow­ing play and elected to take the sure field goal on fourth down. 
The Crime then took over and once again their offense came through in the clutch. On their second play, Hammond dropped back and found R.J. Sandine open in the endzone for the game-winning touch­down. 
Zahm 16, Flanner 7 It was almost over before it started. In a game that never 
really was, the Rabid Bats of Zahm got an early lead on the Flanner Gamecocks and rode it to a 16-7 victory. 
Zahm's first points can be at­tributed only to the Flanner long snapper. After Zahm shut down Flanner's offense on its first possession, the 'Cocks fell back into punt formation. But the snap soared over the head of the punter and out of the end zone, resulting in a safety. 
Not comfortable with a 2-0 lead, Zahm got the ball on the kick after the safety and drove the field with mixed offensive play calling. Swatland hauled in a big pass from Hammond which got Zahm to the Flanner three yard line. Two plays later running back Dan Glennon walked into the end zone to put the Rabid Bats up by nine, still in the first quarter. 

Planner's biggest moment came when sophomore defen­sive back Pat Collins inter­cepted a Hammond pass and returned it for a touchdown. The score sparked the Flanner band into an inspirational ren­dition of the fight song. 
Collins' touchdown closed the gap to 9-7, but Zahm re­sponded in the fourth quarter as Hammond hit his favorite target, Rick Rios, on a deep sideline pattern for a thirty-five yard score. "Benji was really accurate with his passing," Rios said. "Planner was as tough as we expected, but we took it to them early." 




The Notre Dame Science Quarterly is interested in publishing student papers dealing with top­ics of current scientific interest. We are looking for well-documented research presentations that con­tain some visual aids. If you think you would like to contribute a piece, be advised that the deadline for sub­missions for this semester's issue is Friday, Novem­ber 18. Papers should be in Microsoft Word format. A disk and a hard copy may be left in the NDSQ mailbox in the Physics Department office (225 NSH) or at the NDSQ of­fice, 238 NSH. 
A Notre Dame Science Quarterly Staffis being formed. All students interested in working closely with our journal should leave their name and number with the current editor -William Lorie, 631-5757. Also, Juniors in the College of Science who wish to put their managerial skills and creativ­
ity to work as editors of the NDSQ 
should submit a letter demonstrating their interest and quali­fications for this position to either of the addresses above no later than Thesday, November 22. Publication ex­perience a plus but not a requirement. 
Please speak to or leave a message for William at the NDSQ office if you have any questions about either matter. 

4. Zahm 
3. 0-C 
November 20 at 1 p.m. Championship Game Notre Dame Stadium 
Men's Pairings 
1. Carroll 6 
8. Flanner 7
8. Flanner 7 '4. Zahm 16 
4. Zahm 7 5. Keenan 6 Stepan field 
3. 0-C 20 6. Alumni 03. 0-C 9 
'-------.....J 
2. Stanford 6 2. Stanford 1 0 
7. Fisher 0 
The ObserverfTom Roland 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Zahm running back Matt Bundick is tackled by a Flanner defender in the Rabid Bat's 16-7 win over the Gamecocks. 
Please, Recycle The Dbseruer 


page 14 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Women host Aussie Nationals 
By K.C. GOYER Sports Writer 
The 1994-95 women's bas­ketball team has been studying hard. Tonight. the Irish will put their efforts to test as they start off the preseason against the Australian National Team. 
As with most international teams, the Australians can pass and move very well, and like to shoot three pointers. Coach Muffet McGraw expects the opposition to run the floor, cap­italize on transitions, and play a fast paced game. 
The Irish will be ready how­ever, as the team has shown impressive effort in practice and a propensity for aggressive play. 
"Our strengths are in rebounding and a good post game," Coach McGraw said, "and we have a lot of good in­tensity on defense." 
With only one senior and three juniors, the women's team is relatively young and will look to this game to build confidence as well as work on executing the offense. They also welcome the chance to play against someone other than themselves. 
"We're going to work on our man to man [defense] in this game," McGraw said, "It will be a good test for us." 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Senior Letitia Bowen leads the Irish against the Australian Nationals. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631-5723 

Cairo !R!,visitetf 
Economic and Ethical Implications of Expanding Global Population 
Professor tJJenis .91... (joufet 
The William and Dorothy O'Neill Professor of Education for Justice Department of Economics 
Wednesday, November 16 7:30pm Keenan Hall Kommons 
All are welcome 

The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 15, 1994 
• MEN's SoccER 
Irish face Indiana in NCAAs 

This weekend, experience apile up!. 
Before or after watching the Irish pile up on Air Force Saturday, let SUBWAY pile lots of fresh sliced deli meats and crisp toppings onto the fresh baked bread of aSix-Foot Combo Special for as low as $37.95. 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Sports Writer 
While the coverage and fan­fare were not as large as that for the men's basketball NCAA pairings, there was a large con­tingent in Coach's eagerly awaiting news of the Notre Dame men's soccer team's fu­ture. 
The future is Indiana. 
The Irish will face the Hoosiers this Sunday at 2 p.m. in Bloomington, Indiana. 
The news was not much of a surprise, yet many players were disappointed that they would not have a chance for re­venge on Wisconsin. Wisconsin 

• 
Ski Team-There will be a mandatory meeting for everyone interested in trying out for the ND/SMC ski team on Tuesday, November 15 from 8-9 p.m .. in the Dooley room of LaFortune. Optional dry land training begins today at 10:00 p.m. in Loftus. 
lnterhall team three point contest-The contest will be held on Monday, November 21 at 7:30 p.m. in the JACC. There will be men's and knocked them out of the tour­nament in the first round last year. 
While Indiana is a top seed, the Irish are not intimidated, and some are looking forward to the rematch. 
"A lot of us were looking for­ward to this (pairing with Indiana)." senior midfielder Keith Carlson said. "We've been close to beating them be­fore. Knocking them out would give us extra confidence, and could catapult us through the tournament." 
"It's a fair draw," sophomore midfielder Konstantin Koloskov added. "We're ready to play." 

Brahms' Academic Festival Overture, Op. 80 Brahms' Symphony No. 1 in C Minor, Op. 68 
For information about tickets, please call the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 284-4626. 
THIS FRIDAY! 
NOTRE DAME HOCKEY 
vs. BOWLING GREEN 
FRIDAY NIGHT • 7 P.M. doyce Center Fieldhouse 
·FREE ADMISSION! 
with student ID 

Tuesday, November 15, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
SA'-\ '"Pu~l'O>~Ful-l>tEBAC.l'-:·
s~E.:SH' Ozo"'E. l>E1"LE.1">0N, 
IMJAr-;. h-'u. AcL U.t> WHEN
c:::o,.E.S\~'1'"10N 1 fYlouNrAn••l.l Or: 
AASf< -WHEN':> THt> [COLO(,t<AL 
(Hr:~~.E's A -rv~>-Po~EFUL­
NlroH,.-mARE 
1>•E "BIIC.~ DF Tt\E FiVE 
6oNN~ 'S,.-op?l 
'B,~uo"' 1-\vml\,.. "&tN&S ON 
\ 
\ !fitS "f\..AN(OT.l<ect:>u<•"'& 
DAVE KELLETT 
BILL WATTERSON 
IT Wfl.S \)\l't: lbDI>o'i, 8\11 I 
TOLl) 11-\E \E!I.C\l.ER 
l Wf\S~'\ Ql.li\E F\~I'S\-\1:.\). 
SCOTT ADAMS 

THAT COULD 
YOU

EXPLAIN THE 
WOULDN'T 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~Ot<l., Do WE 
lit>..IJ( t>. s~oc. 
\30)( I CO\JL\) 
1-l~IJ£? \IS 
RJR 1>. SC\.\OOL PROJ't:C\. 
DILBERT 
I /"\ADE A FE.W TI-\OOSAND 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Beaver projects 
s Service item 10 Conceal 140fgrand 
proportions 15 Flushed, as the cheeks 16 North Sea 
feeder 17 Relax 20MaximaJ 21 Covered with 
scales 22 Hellenic H 23 Evocative of an 
earlier time, as fashion 24 Treadless 27 Excursion 29 Paul Anka's -alady" 
33 Mil. address 34 Ride the waves 35 Raise 37 Rossini opera, 
with "The" 40 Card game for two 41 Tax deferral plans 42 Command to 
Dobbin 43 Actress Olin 44 Where some 
chichi ski 45 Difficult 46 Part of Iberia 49"0de­
Nightingale" 51 Medicinal amount 
53 1975 Beatty-Hawn film 
OF ALL THE PLEASURES 
OF LIFE) I TI-\INK I 
57 Small pooch 59 Toward shelter GO Counting 
everything 61 Denoting certain textbook 
publishers 62 Fastens 63 Spruce 64Society 
gatherings 
DOWN 
1 Proofreader's mark 2Summit 3 Catcher's glove 
4 Tallied 
5 Early 
6 Misplace 
7 Bat wood 
a Come-on 
9 Undemocratic 
Jaw 
Toke o First Aid doss with the American Red Cross. We'll teach you whot you need to know to save someone you love . ..lrom choking, bleeding or dozens of other life threatening emergencies. Coli your chapter of the American Red Cross today. And know it oil. 
Ameri:can 
Red Cross
• 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

attachment 11 "Time -the 
essence" 12 Moist 13 Coastal flier 18 After taxes 19 Capek drama 
24 Noisy confusion 
system 28 Spanish gold 
30 Hagar's better half, in the comics 
31 Swiss mathematician 32 1994 movie thriller 34 Bullheaded 35 Salutarily 36 Hosp. devices 
38 Number two 
woods Lanka
39 _ 44 Type of sausage 
45 Gertrude's son 54 Soccer great 47 Busy 55 Worker-welfare election-year org. watchdog: Abbr.
48 Once more 56 Medical suffix 
50 Pull, at sea 57 Glove51 Sandwich shop 
compartment 52 Farm team item 
53 NaCJ 58 Sombrero, e.g. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 


f I I 
I 
I • 
t 
t 
I 
SPORTS 

page 16 
• INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Zahm, Off­Campus survive 
in mens' bracket 
By JACK MACLEOD Sports W rirer 
Whoever said defense wins champi­onships said it a week early. These were only the semi-finals, but the defense of the Off-Campus Crime hung tough in overtime to allow a dramatic 9-6 victory over the Stanford Studs. 
The Off-Campus defense was fero­cious against Stanford, laying hits on the famed Stud backfield that could have been heard up in the press box, if there was one. 
But they were not just tough, they were also smart. When Stanford tried a fake field goal, a Crime defender was there to bat down the pass. 
The Studs' defense was also tough, forcing the Off-Campus offense to go three and out on at least three posses­sions. But despite the Crime's offensive inconsistency, they made the plays they needed to make at crucial points in the game. 

Toward the end of the first half, they got the ball on their own thirty yard line with less than two minutes left on the clock. Trailing by a field goal, quarterback Chris Hammond orches­trated a drive with successive passes that positioned the Crime in field goal range. Kicker Mike Marty came in and kicked an important thirty yard field goal which kept Off-Campus in the game. 
Although neither team scored in the second half, the offenses played well. The fact that there was not one turnover all game speaks for the pol­ished play of the offenses. 
With the score tied at three at the end of regulation, the game went to over­time. Because interhall is played according to high school rules, each team was given four plays from the ten yard line. 
Stanford got the ball first and appeared to have passed for a touch­down on their second play, but a con-
see MEN/ page 13 

IRISH SWIMMERS COMPETE 
A meet with the Naval Academy in Annapolis had mixed results for Notre Dame's athletes. See Page 11 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Tuesday, November 15, 1994 

Off-Campus, Lyons to battle for womens' title 
ByB..j. HOOD Spons Wrirer 
Lyons used a balanced offensive attack to convert their first two possessions into touchdowns, and the defense took it from there in Lyons' 14-0 victory. 
Lyons quarterback Julie Byrd carried the ball into the endzone for Lyons' first touchdown, and passed to Jenny Layden for a touchdown on their second drive. Byrd ran in the conversion on both touchdowns. 
Pangborn made it to the Lyons' two yard line on a long pass play in the first half. However, the Lyons defense would stop Pangborn from scoring. 
"Our defense played a fabulous game. It gave our offense more confidence and leeway," Byrd said. 
Byrd said the attack was balanced for Lyons, and receivers Jenny Layden, Christian Mikolyzk, Amanda Gast con­tributed to the attack. Also, receiver Kim Rosenkoetter made what Byrd called an "incredible" tip to Layden for Lyons' second touchdown. 

When asked why Lyons was able to win, Layden said, "Our preparation for the game-we were prepared and intense." 
Off Campus 6, Siegfried 0 

The game was dominated by defense and went into overtime. Then it was dominated by Michelle Drury. 
Once overtime begins, both teams get four plays to score from the ten yard line. 
Off Campus took over and on first down Off Campus quarterback Nikole Neidlinger completed a pass to Drury. After a running play, Neidlinger once again hit Drury for about four yards and the game winning touchdown. 
see WOMEN/ page 12 
of note... 

The Men's Soccer Team will battle with Indiana University in the first round of the NCAA Tourney. 






