
Wednesday, October 5, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 28 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

'Future Force' wins landslide freshmen election 
By ANNE DELANEY tickets, Shelley Kay Hackett of  
 
News Writer McCandless Hall and running mate Meghan McNally of  Saint Mary•s Freshman Class Elections  
Marin Shaughnessy of Holy McCandless Hall had 20 per­ 
Cross Hall and Debbie Dziekan cent of the votes; Katie Mahon  
of McCandless Hall, who ran of LeMans Hall and Carrie under the title the "Future Kootz of LeMans Hall, 15 per­Force of 1998," gained 55 per­cent; and Brenda Barry of  Marin Shaugnessy/ Shelley Kay Hackett/Debbie Dzeikan Meghan McNally  
cent of the vote to win a land­McCandless Hall and Kathleen  
slide victory vote in the Saint Policy of McCandless Hall, eight  
Mary's freshmen class election percent. 
yesterday. Students also voted for the  
The new president and vice general board, which has 13  
president have many goals for members. but only six ran. and  
the school year, which include therefore won by acclamation.  
class unity, community in­The new members are Anna  
volvement, more interaction Antes of Holy Cross Hall, Ellen  
with Notre Dame. and campus Coleman of McCandless Hall,  
improvements, such as refur­Jennifer Groszak of McCandless  
bishing the recycling program. Hall, Claire Konstant of Holy 
Forty-six percent of the fresh­Cross Hall, Lisa Perry of Holy  Brenda Barry/  
man class voted and two per­Cross Hall and Rachel  Kathleen Policy  
cent abstained. Of the other  zm  
• RESIDENCE HAlL ASSOCIAT!ON  Tragedy averted in  
Week to focus on 'wellness'  accidental acid spill  
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI Shaw. RHA is trying to coordinate a News Writer RHA hopes that the activities recycling program through the it plans for Alcohol Awareness individual halls. Once again,The Residence Hall Associa­Week will encourage students although the activity is coordi­tion focused on wellness last to become well; Shaw noted nated through RHA, it is up to  By LIZ FORAN flushing her skin with water. Assistant News Editor She was later released the same day. Hurley said .. An accident at the Radiation Risk Management, a division Building Tuesday morning of the Notre Dame Security 
night at their weekly meeting, that it is not the intention of individual halls to decide what  caused a minor injury to a Department, took care of the  
and discussed ways to help stu­RHA to preach the evils of alco­they would like to do.  Notre Dame graduate student. spill, according to Hurley.  
dents achieve wellness, as part hol, or point the guilty finger at Other RHA news  Assistant Director of Notre Tom Quarandillo, captain of  
of Alcohol Awareness Week ac­weekend party-goers. • Regina will be selling sweat­ Dame Security Charles Hurley the C-shift of the Notre Dame  
tivities. Currently, no concrete activi­shirts and hair clips soon.  said that at about 11:36 a.m. a Fire Department who was at  
According to Colette Shaw, a ties have been planned, but There will also be an aerobics Saint Mary's College Resident many ideas have been dis­class in the dance studio in the Hall Director, "wellness is an cussed. basement Mondays at eight o'­active process" composed of RHA will be sponsoring a clock. spiritual. physical, intellectual, United Way drive between Oc­•Le Mans Hall would like to career-oriented, environmen­tober 4 and October 21. Com­start a tutoring program at St. tal, emotional, and social mittee members are needed to Stevens. Anyone interested in facets. make this event a success. being involved should talk to  28-year-old graduate student the scene, said that Risk Man­was carrying a 1 liter bottle of agement appeared to have acid when she dropped it. The cleaned up the spill safely and acid splashed onto her and effectively. around the room, causing the "We were out there about entire building to be evacuat­half an hour," he said. "It was ed due to irritating fumes a very serious incident, but it from the spill. was taken care of with mini­The student was transported mum fanfare and no addition­ 
The goal of being well is to Representatives will be nomi­their Hall council Representa­ to St. Joseph Medical Center, al injuries. Everyone involved  
"have a balance between all of nated at the individual Hall tives.  where she was treated by did a great job."  
those things," according to Council meetings.  




Weekend Wheels safe-for now 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST News Writer 
Despite recent concerns and controversies that threatened to shut it down, the Hall Presi­dents Council (HPC) determined last night that the Weekend Wheels program will continue through this school year. 
However, Rich Palermo, co­chairman of the council, said that the HPC will form a com­mittee to investigate alterna­tives in the event that the pro­gram becomes less useful. 
"We are continuing it," Palermo said, "but we are ex­ploring other options just in case." 
The four-year-old program, which helps students at off­campus bars and parties return home safely, has been plagued by occasional low ridership and abuse of its services. 
The HPC voted strongly to maintain Weekend Wheels, a sign of the council's strong en­dorsement of the program, ac­cording to Tara Bonner, coor­dinator of Weekend Wheels for the HPC. 
"We're not concerned about ridership," Bonner said, "because if we can save one life with this, then it's worth it." 
Ridership has been higher on home football weekends, with around 200 people using the service on the weekend of the Michigan game. However. on other weekends, the numbers have been much smaller. Only 30 people used it on the week­end of Sept. 16-17. 
As part of its renewed sup­port, the council plans to in­crease students' awareness of the program. 
Advertisements aimed at off­campus students will increase, and schedules of the bus ser­vices will be made available to everyone. 
"We want people to talk it up in their dorms," Bonner said, "and we will also work with the bars, since the service obviously benefits them as well." 
From the increase in advertis­ing, the HPC hopes to establish a wider base of student sup­port. 
"We want to get the program up and ready," Bonner said, "and then we'll re-evaluate it at the end of the year." 
However, in the event that Weekend Wheels does not be­come more widely used, the council will be prepared with other options. 
"We'll be researching the al­ternatives by looking at what other schools around the coun­try are doing," Bonner said. 
Palermo stressed that no other options have been dis­cussed seriously yet. 
"Nothing is concrete," he said. 
In other news discussed by the HPC in its meeting last night: 
The HPC is sponsoring the painting of two South Bend homes on Saturday as part of the Northeast Neighborhood Rejuvenation Project. 
According to Karen DuBay, coordinator of the project, any­one is welcome to volunteer. 
"The project gets Notre Dame students involved in the com­munity," DuBay said. "We're trying to give a more positive image of students at Notre Dame." 
Anyone interested in volun­teering should contact DuBay by Friday evening. 

page2 
' 
• INSIDE Cm..oMN r 
f 
r 

BC's not the only reason to hit the road 
Here I go again. 
Ah, autumn. The leaves lose their luster. The air packs a bit more bite in the morning. The sounds of the gridiron reverber­ate through campus. Spirit oozes from every corner of this campus. 
And I once again hit the road. This year off to Milwaukee, Wisconsin. I have seen more of this country on weekend trips in early November than I have on any vacation for quite some time. 
This year will mark my ftfth road trip. A trip not for pleasure, but in pursuit of the brass ring, a goal if you will that has been near, but not here. 
The first year I got to see Cleveland, Ohio (of all places). Lucky I am from Ohio or the com­mute would have been murder. Cleveland doesn't have much to offer, but what city does when you're there for only five hours. 
Washington, D.C. was the next stop on my November tours. Monuments, history, cul­ture, and another successful undertaking which turned out for naught. 
My next two trips, as this year's, began from a different locale-here at Notre Dame. My first stop took me to Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Mall of America was cool, a shopper's paradise, but the same results were returned as the previous two years. 
And then last year. Omaha, Nebraska. What can you say about Omaha? I'll just say I stayed in the hotel all weekend. I think that's enough. 
This year I hope will be different. I want to make my goal come to fruition. And Milwaukee may just be the place. Milwaukee's products are well known, partic­ularly to many a student on this campus. I hope Milwaukee will come through for me. 
My desire for money and my need for recog­nition compel me to continue this wild pursuit of a goal very attainable, very profitable. 
What is this goal you may ask? How wise of you to phrase it in the form of a question. If you said, "What is audition for Jeopardy!?" you are correct. In all the press surrounding the new movie Quiz Show I am making my own effort to be a part of the quiz madness. 
This year will be different. This year every­thing will change. Things will go in my favor, the call will come, the cash will start rolling in. A potential payoff of $25,000 or more, plus, a beauty of a trophy not to mention a new car. And then the Tournaments to come. Not a bad exchange. I give them the years of useless and trivial knowledge I have stored up and they reward me handsomely. 
And if I don't get selected again this year? For the fifth year in a row? I'll have one more year of eligibility. One more chance to show what years of public education (and now pri­vate education) have taught me. After that I'll have to make my claims on the regularly tele­vised program. More money, maybe I should just forego my last year of eligibility and head straight into the big leagues. Maybe not. 
Think about what those dollars could do. I know my roommates already have, they have been planning for quite some time. Wish me luck, I know my roommates will be wishing for that and more. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

• TonAv's STAFF 
News Production Kate Crisham Kim Massman Amy Schmidt Tara Grieshop 
Sports Accent Rian Akey Kym Kilbride Viewpoint Graphics Suzy Fry Zoe Marin Lab Tech Michael Hungeling 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associaced Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, October 5, 1994 
• Wmn.o AT A GLANCE 

Appearances aside, suing a company doesn't guarantee success 
NEW YORK Schnader, Harrison, Segal & Lewis 
Sometimes it seems like suing a who works in employment law. company is guaranteed to make a In product liability law, despite plaintiff a millionaire. some large, well-publicized awards, 
A secretary is awarded $7.1 mil­the number of suits has actually lion in a sexual harassment lawsuit declined since the mid-1980s and against the Chicago law firm Baker consumers are finding juries less 
& McKenzie, although she worked sympathetic to their causes, legal at the firm for just three months. experts say. 
An 81-year-old woman receives a Furthermore, one in two awards is $2.9 million jury award against either reversed or reduced by juries McDonald's after suffering third­or judges, said Michael Rustad, a degree burns from the fast-food professor at Suffolk Law School in chain's hot coffee. Boston. 
Big awards like these grab big State courts, which handle about headlines. But the public often 100 times the case load of federal hears little about the aftermath -a courts, say that while 18 million new judge cut the award against lawsuits are filed each year, less McDonald's to $480,000, and the than 2 percent are tort cases ­Baker & McKenzie decision is likely those involving wrongful acts, injury, to be appealed. negligence or damage. 
The sense from media reports is In federal court, of the more than that the number of individuals suing 200,000 civil suits flied, only about 6 companies and winning is increas­percent are product liability cases. 

ing and that jury awards -espe­cially in the emotionally charged areas of employment law and product liability -are climbing into the stratos­phere. 
The reality, however, is more complex. 

Yes, juries are sending messages to employers that dis­crimination and harassment at work are not acceptable. The number of awards is growing. But that's because jury trials and punitive damages in such cases weren't allowed before 1991 amendments to the Civil Rights Act. 
"It took time for those cases to make their way through the pipeline," said Christine Carty, a litigator with 
And product liability fllings in fed­eral courts, with the exception of asbestos cases, declined by about 36 percent between 1985 and 1991, :tccording to the American Bar Association. All tort filings fell by about 20 percent, also excluding asbestos cases, over the same period. 
But in discrimination and harassment cases, the changes in the Civil Rights Act have prompted individuals and lawyers to me more suits, said Ronald Green, a part­ner at Epstein Becker & Green, a firm that represents many companies. 
Princess and the major: a tale of a treason? 
LONDON To the establishment he's a cad. If .Jf the story of a love affair with Princess ·" 
Diana is true he's also a traitor under the law and -technically at least ­could face execution. While Maj. James Hewitt ducked the verbal brickbats Tuesday, initial sales of a book alleging he had a five-year affair with the princess were brisk, and high society 


wondered where traditional codes of honor have gone. "He has gone too far and I think other officers will be disinclined to have anything to do with him," said Bob Higson, a spokesman for the prestigious Life Guards, Hewitt's former regiment. "Princess in Love," a work by freelance journalist Anna Pasternak, shows Hewitt to be "a fully fledged cad," wrote Niall Ferguson, a fellow in modern history at Oxford University's Jesus College, in The Daily Telegraph. 
Yeltsin: Russia stronger since 1993 rebellion 
MOSCOW 
As demonstrators ringed the old parliament building to mark the anniversary of a crushed rebellion, President Boris Yeltsin said Tuesday that Russia is stronger and more confident because that "second October Revolution" failed. And Yeltsin said there is a new re­spect for Russia abroad. About 1,500 Communist sup­porters formed a human chain around Russia's White House, the old parliament building, a year after Yeltsin sent in tanks and soldiers to end the rebellion over his disbanding of parliament. The demonstrators observed a minute of silence in memory of the more than 140 people who died in the violence. Yeltsin, too, paid tribute to the dead, "regardless of which side they were on," and asked the new parliament to cast aside "hurt feelings and petty disputes." 

Judge disallows justifiable homicide defense 
PENSACOLA, Fla. 
A federal judge refused today to allow a man accused of fatally shooting an abortion doctor and escort to use a justifiable homicide defense. "There are legal alterna­tives, certainly legal alternatives far less intrusive and far less evil" than killing someone to stop abortions, U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson said The defendant, Paul Hill, had contended he chose the lesser of two evils by attacking a doctor and his escort rather than allowing abortions to be performed. Defense attorney Maureen Duignan argued that Hill had tried legal ways of prevent­ing abortions, including picketing clinics, speaking to doctors, and doing media interviews. She added that oth­ers had tried methods ranging from opening crisis preg­nancy centers to bombing clinics but all had failed to pre­vent abortions. The prosecution saw it another way. "He laid in wait and shot two elderly men in the head with buckshot and he asks the Ia w to protect him," said Assistant U.S. Attorney David McGee. 
Protecting Western forests a costly affair 
WASHINGTON 
The Forest Service would have to spend $3.5 billion, 
roughly its annual budget, to deal with health and wild­
fire concerns on just 10 percent of the national forest 
lands in the West, a congressional report says. Salvage 
logging, prescribed burning and other operations would 
probably cost an average of about $250 per acre over the 
14 million acres of national forests in the region, the 
Congressional Research Service said Tuesday. The ser­
vice, the research arm of the Library of Congress, also 
concluded that salvage logging -harvesting dead, dying 
and burned trees -never produces enough money to off­
set the costs to the federal treasury. However, top offi­
cials for the Agriculture and Interior departments said 
the benefits of reduced fire threat and improved wildlife 
habitat often outweigh the costs. 


Wednesday, Oct. 5 Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather~ forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 5. 

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vis AssocJ.atl!ld Press 
Atlanta 73 57 Dallas 91 67 New Orleans 86 70 
Baltimore 63 44 Denver 65 50 New York 65 45 cf?'l ,.r() ..cflT). ,..<"\ ,.,(7") ,..<"\ ~ ,..<"\ 
Boston 61 45 Los Angeles 70 62 Philadelphia 63 46
~~~~~~""¥' ~ ~ 

Chicago 61 54 Miami 87 77 Phoenix 93 69
S~~~e~ T-~~~~s Rain ;,~;;;~~ ·~~~·~:· ~~-:.. Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Columbus 63 39 Minneapolis 56 48 St. Louis 73 56 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNst C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

page 3 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS Wednesday, October 5, 1994 
i
Espy resigns antid controversy Legal maneuverings 
i 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy pledged Tuesday to spend his last three months in office preparing a major farm bill, although a widening probe into his conduct promises to be a distraction. 
A day after announcing his resignation, Espy was in Kansas City, Mo., promoting a more ethnically diverse De­partment of Agriculture and speaking to the Kansas City Board of Trade about govern­ment policy. 
As Congress was poised to finish work on bills revamping disaster assistance to farmers and reorgamzmg the Agriculture Department, some farm groups and lawmakers questioned what the loss of Espy will mean for agriculture. 
"Mike Espy was a very able secretary," said Don Lipton, director of information for the American Farm Bureau Federation. "He tackled a wide variety of issues. He had credi­bility in the ag community and had credibility, at least before he got into this mess, with his colleagues on the Hill." 
Espy is leaving before meet­

OetU-e~tirj Tk 


When you call today _to place your order, wish Grant a Happy Birthday and receive extra cheese for free 1 
271--1177 
ing the ultimate test: shaping a farm bill that maps out govern­ment policy on everything from conservation to price supports for the next five years. 
Until he leaves office Dec. 31, Espy must look over his shoul­der at the squad of attorneys and six FBI agents assembled by Donald C. Smaltz, the Los Angeles lawyer appointed by a three-judge panel to investigate him. 
"We're going through a very critical period," said Sen. Thomas A. Daschle, D-S.D., one of Espy's most loyal backers in the Senate. "Mike has been a very aggressive and successful secretary, and this transition will have some effect on our momentum." 
Daschle and Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., the top Republican on the Senate Agri­culture Committee, say Espy can use his last few months to start the work of merging de­partmental agencies and clos­ing field offices. 
"A great deal ought to be done swiftly," Lugar said. 
Smaltz, the independent counsel, is looking into gifts Espy received from individuals and firms doing business with the department. Since the 

~Rzza.l 
It's the Boss's Birthday! 


Gr,ant Patton 
(future Domer) 
is 4 years old! 
investigation originated with the department's Office of Inspector General in March, questions have also been raised about Espy's personal use of official travel and vehicles. 
Espy, 40, has denied wrong­doing, but told departmental employees in Kansas City: "In politics, perception is reality.... I have to leave." 
The latest tangle involves a $1,200 scholarship his compan­ion, Patricia Dempsey, received from a foundation created by Tyson Foods Inc., the Arkansas poultry empire with close ties to President Clinton. 
A senior administration offi­cial indicated Monday that while no law may have been broken, the incident looked like a breach of ethical standards. 
Dempsey's attorney, Jim Cole, refused to comment about the matter except to say Espy had nothing to do with the scholar­ship and Dempsey appears to face no legal difficulties herself. 
"She is her own individual person," he said. 
Dempsey has accompanied Espy on several trips, including one in May 1993 when Espy spent the night at a Tyson­owned facility and flew back to Washington on a Tyson jet. 


may delay Rosty trial 1 ~ 
By TOM STRONG 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Rep. Dan Rostenkowski's fight to dismiss political corrup­tion charges on constitutional grounds could delay his trial for at least a year, one of his lawyers says. 
The defense argument that only the House can discipline a member for violating its rules could lead to lengthy federal appeals, perhaps to the Supreme Court. 
"It would be a minimum of months and a maximum of sev­eral years," Tom Buchanan, one of the Illinois Democrat's lawyers, said Tuesday. "It depends on how fast it moves." 
Rostenkowski was indicted on 17 felony counts May 31. He is charged with converting $636,600 in federal funds and $56,267 in campaign funds to his personal use. 
He has pleaded innocent and denied wrongdoing, but under House rules, he was forced to step aside as chairman of the Powerful Ways and Means Committee until the case is 


Mandela asks for U.S. aid 
By RITA BFAMISH 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Grateful for past help and seeking more, Nelson Mandela asked Americans Tuesday to expand the support they gave South Africa in the victory against apartheid -this time by helping revive his nation's economy. 
"Come and invest in our country," he said. "I come here 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
knowing I will not go back with empty hands." 
President Clinton welcomed Mandela to an exuberant White House ceremony underscoring the 76-year-old African leader's rise from imprisonment in the apartheid state to the presiden­cy of South Africa's new democracy. 
On his rrrst visit to the United States since his inauguration in May, Mandela was greeted by 4,000 guests at the White House, including diplomats and 
ALL STUDENTS ARE WELCOME! 
She's Ellen, she's 20, beautiful, different from all the other girls at the disco, so call & wish her a Happy 8-day!! 
~~~®®®® 
Love, The Dudes 
resolved. The defense and the govern­
l
ment head to court Wednesday for oral arguments before U.S. 1 District Judge Norma Holloway jJohnson. 
Legal observers did not expect any surprises from ar­guments already made in court papers. 
"The only thing that may come out new would be a new way of packaging an old posi­tion, a clever analogy, a nice twist," said E. Lawrence Barcella Jr., a Washington lawyer and former federal prosecutor. 
Rostenkowski's arguments rely heavily on the con­stitutional provision allowing the House and Senate to police violations of their own rules. 
Such constitutional ar­guments have had little recent success in criminal cases against members of Congress. But the defense's chief lawyer, Dan Webb, said in legal mo­tions: "No previous charges ever brought against any mem­ber of the United States Congress have ever gone so far in violating the separation of powers doctrine." 
l 
politicians, actress Alfre Woodard and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman John Shalikashvili. 
Mandela, on a week-long visit to New York and Washington in search of business investment, said he had come with a mes­sage: 
"People of the United States of America: Open your markets to us. People of the United States of America: Come and invest in our country." 
Clinton told Mandela the United States is committed to helping him fight apartheid's legacy of joblessness, homeless­ness and poverty. 
"We will walk every mile with you and ... we will not grow weary on the way," Clinton said. Noting Mandela's 27 years in prison and emergence as the elected president, Clinton said, "You are living proof that the forces ofjustice and reconcilia­tion can bridge any divide." 

investment and business interest in the reborn South Africa. But economic support is coming from the 
U.S. government as well. Alook at the aid Mandela has secured so far: 
From the Clinton administration 
• 
A$600 million, three-year aid package 

• 
$200 million in loan guarantees to build housing and electricity projects in poor areas 


From federal agencies 
• 
Credit incentives to firms who will invest in South Africa 

• 
Equity funds for prospective business executives 


From corporate America 
• 
APepsi-Cola joint venture, bolstered by prominent black Americans 

• 
Anew food franchise to be announced this week 


AP/Carl Fox 
-~--r--•-----~----·~--------­
page 4 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 5, 1994 
.... 


c: Area'S only
• > Micro brewery! 
E • ....! 


Study Booths


c:---­
..__..••..a c Baby Back Ribs
....... Puburrito
...
._ .. 
Irish Meat Pie
...... 

Sandwiches

.lid!., 

Appetizers

..... 

Outdoor Beergarden
....• • 

61" Widescreen T.V. 

~~~~ill":t:1~:'ii\~~ 
NOCfEM 
Seize tOO Night! 
,~~Rt~ 
~ ~ 


PENNY WEDNE~DAY~ 
INVEST WISELY IN H 

EVERY WEDNESDAY STARTING SEPT. 14 
FOR THE VERY, VERY, VERY POOR! 
222 S. Michigan, South Bend • 219-234-5200 
Seniors, Why go 
to the Alumni Sentor Club? 
...great location... campus bands... 
friendly atmosphere...Friday lunches
0 

... the only club on-campus... theme nights...lots of dance space ...rockin' Wednesday nights... Because senioryear only comes once! 
because tradition matters... 
Get a RUDY cup on Tuesdays! 
Chips, Popcorn, & More 
Big Saeen T.v. • Darts • 3 Pool Tables 3:00p.m. -3:00 a.m. JO 1 Come see where Rudywas filmed... ~ 4 
441 E. IaSalle ~ ~ 
South Bend, IN c~f 
z w 
{219)233-5326 
LaSalle 

Pool Tables Juke Box TV Screens 

11tuit~ ~NU 
LIVE MUSIC 1Thursdays, Fridays, & CANTINA 
• & Saturdays! 
Darts " 1~ Jtl.c/ 
vr__ 1!'; 
Tacos, Burritos, &Beverages 
Daily Specials 
Munchies Served 'till: 
12:30 weekdays 1:30 weekends 
Big Screen T.V.'s Pool, Darts, &Bands 
Monday-Wednesday 11:00 a.m.-1:00 a.m. • Thursday--Saturday 11:00 a.m.-2:00a.m. Sunday 12:00 p.m.-9:00p.m. 
Located just a few steps from Turtle Creek and Campus View! 
(219)233·5733 •111 N. Woodward Court ( 219) 2 7 7 ..JACK 1827S. Bend Ave. • The Campus Shoppes
Across the Street from Teacher's Credit Union on Washington 
.) 
''.:'i'···' 
page 5 The Observer·INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, October 5, 1994 
,
Ousted Rwandan Hutus demand power sharing 1 
I 
l 
By ANGUS SHAW 
Associated Press 
KIGALI 

Exiled Rwandan leaders blamed for orchestrating ethnic massacres want to participate in the rebel-installed govern­ment that overthrew them be­fore they will allow Hutu refugees to return home. 
Hutu leaders in neighboring Zaire told a U.N. -sponsored task force on repatriation there can be no massive return of refugees until a power-sharing deal is cut, the deputy comman­der of U.N. peacekeepers in Rwanda, Brig. Gen. Henry Anyidoho of Ghana, said Tuesday. 
Anyidoho, the top U.N. official in the task force, returned Monday from visiting refugee camps in Zaire where he met with Hutu leaders, including former chief of military staff Augustin Bizimungu. 
"They want to have a say in running the country po­litically," Anyidoho said. "They said very clearly that if they stay outside it cannot be considered a solution to the Rwanda situation." 
But the new government that gained power in July is unlikely to offer concessions to Hutus it wants tried for war crimes. 
It says Hutu soldiers and civilian militias, spurred on by officials of the ousted Hutu gov­ernment, massacred more than 500,000 people, mostly Tutsis, after the death of Hutu President Juvenal Habyarimana in a mysterious April 6 plane crash. 

The ethnic bloodletting and civil war triggered a flood of about 2 million Rwandan refugees to neighboring coun­tries. In addition, an estimated 20,000 Hutu soldiers loyal to the former government and some 50,000 militiamen are liv­ing in the refugee camps. 
They have killed and threat­ened refugees who want to go home and have terrorized relief workers. Aid agencies say the intimidation is the main factor preventing refugees from returning home. 
Aid workers agreed Tuesday 
OCTOBER 2-7, 1994 
HEALING OUR WORLD: IT'S AFAMILY AFFAIR ·-===:::[:[WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5 
MAURARYAN 
"Relationships: The Building Blocks Toward AGlobal Family" 
·-===:::::::THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6 

BARBARA MARX-HUBBARD 
"How To breate AGlobal Family" 
·-====:tFRIDAY, OCTOBER 7 

..JANET KOURANY & ..JIM STERBA 
"The Ideal OfAFeminist Family" 
FREE LUNCH WILL BE PROVIDED 
SPONSORED BYTHE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCll. 
to send a small staff back into one refugee camp seized by Hutu militiamen five days ago, said Lyndall Sachs, spokes­woman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. 
Relief agencies withdrew their international staff Friday from the Katale camp, home to an estimated 270,000 Rwandan Hutus, after more than 200 Hutus took control and seven international staff members were threatened. 
Two people were murdered at the camp last week and Zairian prosecutors are in­vestigating a report of up to 30 more killings. 
Relief agencies decided to return to Katale on Wednesday after refugee leaders agreed to 
Undersea earthquake jolts Japan, injures 200 
By PETER LANDERS 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 

An undersea earthquake jolt­ed northern Japan today, shak­ing buildings 650 miles away in Tokyo and injuring nearly 200 people. Tidal wave warnings were issued for the Pacific, including the west coast of the United States. 
Hawaii closed its public schools and beaches this morn­ing and ordered people in coastal areas to evacuate their homes. 
Japan's Central Meteorologi­cal Agency estimated the pre­liminary magnitude of the quake at 7.9, making it the strongest to hit Japan in 26 years. 
Japanese television stations broke off regular programming to broadcast continuous reports on the earthquake, showing maps of Japan with areas threatened by waves flashing in red. 
Japan Broadcasting Corp. reported 196 people were in­jured. Hospital officials said most were cut by broken win­dow glass or bruised by falling objects. Nearly all the injuries occurred in the northernmost main island of Hokkaido. 
No deaths were reported. 
The quake -which lasted more than a minute -was centered 13 miles beneath the 
FREE FooD NIGHT 
Wed. , Oct. 5 7:00 p.m. 

ENIOR 

conditions aimed at ensuring the security of foreign staff. These included a ban on machetes in public and coop­eration with the Zairean prose­cutors. 
"We are basically going in tomorrow to test the goodwill of the refugees and their commit­ment," Sachs said Tuesday. 
For the first time in a week, food will be distributed Wednesday at Katale, Sachs said. Refugees at the camp complained Tuesday that they had nothing to eat, and many said children and weak people have died of hunger. These re­ports could not be confirmed. 
Ms. Sachs said the aid work­ers who were threatened had decided not to return to Katale. 
floor of the Pacific Ocean, near the southern end of the sparse­ly populated Kuril Island chain and 650 miles from Tokyo. 
On Hokkaido, the quake cracked roads, caused gas leaks and flooded streets. One fire was reported in the town of Nemuro. More than 13,460 households in eastern Hokkaido had lost electric power as of midnight, said Kazuhiro Kojima of Hokkaido Electric Co. 
People evacuated from low­lying areas in the city of Kushiro on Hokkaido island gathered in schools and public buildings and bedded down for the night. Water from broken mains flooded streets in Ne­muro. 
Strong earthquake 


COLORADO 
...... 
----~~--~--------------­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, October 5, 1994 
North, east Bosnia fall to Serbs Cardoso elected 
By JASMINA KUZMANOVIC Sabanovic as he surveyed his shots were fired in April 1992. Associated Press new "home" -a sea of mat­Of about 2 million people 
president of Brazil 
tresses and refugees crowded uprooted by the war, 750,000 
TUZLA into a Tuzla sports hall. are non-Serbs from eastern and By TODD LEWAN result may not be known for First came intimidation and "They told us this was Serb northern Bosnia, according to Associated Press two weeks. With official returns terror, then expulsion. Now, land, and we have no business U.N. statistics. trickling in at a snail's pace,
BRASILIA

after 29 months of war, the job there," said his daughter, Similar purges by Croats and voters had to rely on exit polls
Fernando Henrique Cardoso, 

is nearly done. Northern and Senada Hamzic. Muslims pale compared to the gathered at voting booths 
a former finance minister who
eastern Bosnia are almost Living together was rarely magnitude of the Serb-orches­across the nation of 160 mil­
slashed Brazil's raging infla­
purely Serb. easy. Under 500 years of trated expulsions. lion. 
tion. has been elected president 
What the last sorry groups of Ottoman rule, animosities bub­A pattern of terror was The four exit polls said 
of the world's third-largest
Muslims straggling into Tuzla bled between Turks and Bosni­repeated again and again. Cardoso, of the Brazilian Social 
democracy, today's first official
from northeastern towns rep­ans who converted to Islam and "First the phone lines of non­Democracy Party, would win 
results showed. 
resent is perhaps even more Serbs and Croats who remained Serbs are cut off," said the election by a margin of 4 to tragic than the combined Christian. Antonella Notari, head of office The initial tally by the 5 million votes, enough to avoid weight of their suffering. Serb-Croat killings in neigh­for the International Committee Supreme Electoral Tribunal a second round. The margin of 
confirmed exit polls showing
Their expulsions by Bosnian boring Croatia during World of the Red Cross, in Tuzla. error for the polls was between 
Cardosa was the winner. With
Serbs mark the end of an era War II spilled into Bosnia. "Then the home curfew is in­2 percent and 3 percent. 
0.19 percent of the 95 million
extending back centuries, when Serbs razed Croat villages. troduced for them. Then they A run-off election would be 
votes counted, Cardoso was
Muslims, Serbs and Croats Croats, sometimes helped by are forced to work and exposed held Nov.15 if none of the can­
ahead with nearly 52 percent,
shared land as friends and Muslims, leveled Serb towns. to beatings and other forms of didates obtained a majority of neighbors. Now only several Still, bonds of friendship and violence. Finally, they are the tribunal said. the votes cast. thousand non-Serbs remain in family eventually helped heal rounded up and told to go, im­Monday's election was the 
Socialist Luiz Inacio da Silva

northern and eastern Bosnia, those wounds. Then came this mediately." first since Fernando Collor de 
of the Worker's Party trailed
and probably only a few hun­war, with mass expulsions that Among the first to suffer were Mello won Brazil's first free 
with 22 percent. In Sao Paulo,
dred in the northeast corner. have changed the population 30,000 Muslims forced from the vote in 1989 after decades of 
Brazil's most populous state,
"My great-grandfather and patterns of Bosnia, perhaps for­Kozarac and Bosanski Brod military rule. Collor resigned in 
Cardoso led with 64 percent of 
his father lived in Janja. But I ever. areas of northwestern Bosnia. disgrace in December 1992 fol­
the vote. 
fear that no Muslim will ever be Serb purges of non-Serbs Many men ended up in deten­lowing his impeachment for 
In banner headlines this

born there again." said Habid began shortly after the first tion camps. corruption.
morning, major newspapers A record 95 million 
declared Cardoso the winner. 
Brazilians were eligible to 
"Fernando Henrique Cardoso 

select 11,964 candidates to 
Has Already Won," the Jornal
Economic outlook optimistic -just six percent
public office 
da Tarde newspaper pro­
of them women. Up for grabs
claimed, while the 0 Globo
Financial markets reacted lower money supply and fewer were the presidency, 27 stateBy JAMES H. RUBIN 
newspaper said: "Fernando 
Associated Press calmly to the leading indicators unfilled orders for durable governorships, 54 of 81 Senate 
Henrique Cardoso Elected
report. But stock prices fell goods. seats, all 513 lower house 
President."
WASHINGTON sharply later amid worries of The economic expansion is deputies and 1,059 state legis­
The first ballot boxes were

The government's main eco­rising inflation and interest well into its fourth year and lators. 
opened at 8 a.m. and the final
nomic forecasting gauge had its rates. The Dow Jones industrial apparently has weathered the strongest showing in five average was down nearly 46 string of interest-rate increases months during August, a sign of points. that pushed the rate banks sustained growth that could charge each other for overnight mean higher interest rates The August advance in the loans from 3 percent to 4. 7 5 
soon. index was nearly across the percent. The Fed also has The Commerce Department board as nine of the 11 compo­raised the discount rate it 
said Tuesday its Index of nents showed improvement. charges banks to 4 percent. Leading Economic Indicators Factory orders for consumer Banks have responded by surged 0.6 percent in August. goods led the way. followed by raising their prime lending rate the 13th straight month without slower business delivery times for their best customers to 7.7 5 a decline. that usually are a sign of rising percent. 
Since July 1993, the barome­orders and fewer weekly initial "The brakes are being ter has risen 11 times and claims for unemployment in­applied. But the brakes haven't remained unchanged twice. It surance. caused the vehicle to slow down 
held steady this July after two Also advancing were stock very much," said Lynn Reaser months of small gains. The last prices, raw material prices, of First Interstate Bancorp of time it rose more than August consumer expectations, the Los Angeles. 

~ 

was in March, when it jumped average work week, business The Index of Leading 
0.7 percent. orders for plant and equipment Economic Indicators is aimed at 
"There is a good momentum and building permits. predicting activity at least six in the economy," said econo­The only negatives were a months in advance. mist Roger Brinner of DRI­McGraw Hill, a forecasting ser­vice in Lexington, Mass. The index "is consistent with a stream of news." 
Analysts are looking to 

WRITING THE PERSONAL STATEMENT
Friday's unemployment report for further signs the economy may be reaching the limit of its ability to expand without infla­tion. The jobless rate is 6.1 per­cent. which some analysts con­sider close to full employment. 
The Federal Reserve, which 

Jaek Pratt (ND Law)
has raised interest rates five times since February, pays par­ticular attention to the job mar­ket for indications of worker shortages that could lead to higher wages and inflation. 

101 Law School 
"The economy is still perking along. There's no question about that," said Charles Renfro of Alphametrics, a fore­casting service in Bala Cynwyd, Pa. "The only question is 


Wednesday
whether there will be a buildup 
of inflationary pressures." 
"The evidence is mounting there will be some basis for the Fed raising interest rates. The 

Oetober5 
economy is performing well, but there may be a logic in say­ing this is the time to lean against the tide," he said. 
Analysts expect the central bank's Federal Open Market 

~p.m.

Committee to boost rates to 
5.25 percent, a half point rise, 

lJ&.t~ et.&.hJ~d!11
when the policy-making group next meets Nov. 15. But some say they believe Fed 

r;111,~ et.&.hJ~d!11
Chairman Alan Greenspan was handed authority by the com­mittee last month to move 

(We've got it write now!!!) 
sooner if conditions warrant. 



page 7 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, October 5, 1994 
Haitian coup leader Francois abandons struggle 

Friday October 7, 1994 8nm-12am Stenan Center 
on-AND ENTERTAINMENT FiiliM AROUND THE WO 
Jpo•••...,rJb¥: ~fuftituftu:W '4ftutn<r ( i>un..U 

So come join the fun, stop by before SYRS! Kick off the weekend in a unique way and bring all your friends! 
:J~5Z//eJ11~ Sa/or of'alt'no1 Ui'c~.1 o/Jat'/" tJlau, _5/""~ 1J/IJ.1a Z.U~~-Afoaa nzH.:Ji'ct'aa1 anda?rt~al m?'lo/}n.. dane"_,~~ andnzH.:Ji'c/ Ak.won: $1 


By DAVID BEARD 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 

Police chief Michel Francois sneaked out of Haiti in the dark Tuesday, the first coup leader to abandon the struggle against American soldiers who poured into Haiti to install a democrat­ic government. 
Several hours later, a militia leader renounced violence and called off his opposition to the planned return next week of exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. 
"No more violence," said Emmanuel Constant, the leader of the pro-army militia FRAPH, whose headquarters were taken over by the American sol­diers Monday. 
Constant told reporters: ''I'm asking everyone to put down the stones, to put down the tires and to put down the guns." 
Screams of "Murderer! Murderer!" from about 2,000 Haitians who gathered outside the presidential palace punctu­ated his speech. Americans troops were protecting Con­stant, whose group directed terror attacks since its forma­tion in August 1993. 
Francois' nighttime drive past the Haitian border post at Malpasse came after his sol­diers were humiliated Monday -laid out on the ground and handcuffed in front of jeering Haitians -by some of the nearly 20,000 American troops here to ensure the exit of the Haitian coup leaders. 
Francois' four-wheel-drive vehicle passed into the neigh­boring Dominican Republic en route for Santo Domingo after several hours of waiting. 
Border officials in the Dominican Republic said Fran­cois was accompanied by his brother, Evans Francois, a businessman and former Haitian consul to the Dominican Republic, his wife, two other women and three bodyguards. 
Francois left behind a resig­nation letter defending his actions. "It was not for me to juggle with the destiny of the country," he wrote, in words broadcast on local radio. "I am proud of myself." 
Francois, who as a precinct chief spearheaded the over­throw of Aristide in September 1991, had masterminded squads of "attaches," or army auxiliaries, responsible for many of the thousands of politi­cal killings since. 
He, army chief Raoul Cedras and army chief-of-staff Philippe Biamby were to leave power by Oct. 15 under a last-minute agreement negotiated with for­mer President Carter that averted a U.S. invasion. 
At the United Nations on Tuesday, Aristide told the General Assembly he would be back in Haiti by that deadline. "Eleven days from now, I shall be there, thanks to the deter­mination of the Haitian people and our solidarity," Aristide said to cheers. 
The United States, with thou­sands of troops in Haiti to help restore the elected government, is seeking the peaceful depar­ture of all three military lead­ers. 
"It became very clear that there is a new sheriff in town," 
U.S. Embassy spokesman Stanley Schrager said in pub­licly announcing Francois' departure. "We fully anticipate the departure of Gen. Cedras and Gen. Biamby in the near­future." 
The news of Francois' depar­ture flabbergasted and angered Haitian soldiers, who demand­ed an explanation from Cedras. Several said Francois, who made a fortune in contraband and corruption since the coup, even skipped out with their pensions. 
Haiti developments 

1The number of U.S. troops in Haiti has dropped below 20,000 after 1,800 Marines left northern Haiti bound for the United States. 
1 Tuesday, 500 more returning Haitian refugees are due to arrive aboard two Coast Guard cutters. Agroup of 485 boat people was returned to Haiti on Monday. 
1 AU.S. soldier who was shot and wounded by Haitian gunmen Monday is to be flown today to the hospital ship 
USNS Comfort. 
AP 



~­
r 
VIEWPOINT 

page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lu= Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either instirution. The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 
Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• KITCHEN AYE 
Leaving the unknown alone 
What makes humanity so intriguing? Why do champagne bubbles tickle your nose? Why are we the way we are? What color will my daughter's eyes be? Where do we, do I, fit in? How many angels can dance on the head of a pin? These questions, and others like them, are the questions that philoso­phers, theologians, scientists, and other men and women of thought have contemplated for centuries. Today quantum physicists attempt to simplify the universe in which we reside to one single, beautiful equation. One relationship that would embody the answers to all these questions. The yin and the yang all rolled up into one polynomial. 

Frank Cristinzio 
Hopefully, through this "polynomial of life" we can come to a better understanding of the nature of the universe, the origin of the galaxy and of the human species. So far they have come pretty close. The question is do we really want to go all the way? 
We're all scientists in one way or another. We are all blessed with tremendous powers of observation. We're able to take in all the 
Yet, that's precisely what we did do, look back. Scientists began to look back into the earliest days of the universe. They've gone all the way back to the last 10-43 second. Now they're sorta... stuck. They reached a point where they have a cause without an effect. They have to admit that perhaps the simplification toward which they are striving is not that simple, or beautiful. Because life isn't always beautiful. 
Let's consider for a moment that maybe we're not supposed to know. Maybe we're always meant to wonder what happened in the first hundredths of a second of the uni­verse's existence. Do you want to know what you're getting for Christmas, exactly what tomorrow will bring, when you're going to die? No one wants to see a movie when they already know the ending. Some things are better left unknown, lest the joy of their dis­covery be taken away. 
There are some things we'll never know the answers to. True enlightenment comes when we keep on looking for that answer. You may never find the answer, but you will learn a lot about yourself along the way. 
Personally, I'd like to think that I exist in this ever expanding, tumultuously changing universe of ours for a purpose. Perhaps I have to admit that in the grand scheme of things this purpose may not be so grand in the scheme of things. Yet in my scheme of things it is certainly grand. Because as a good friend of mine often says, life is grand. 
So why is life grand? Since I'm asking the questions here I'll answer them too. Life is grand because we never know what lurks around the corner. I don't really want to know exactly why I'm here or what will hap­pen next, or exactly how nature and the world around me all fit together, because it would tarnish the wonderful luster that not knowing these things lends to life. 
I don't think I want the equation that tells me how life fits together, where the ducks go when it rains, or why nobody likes the black jelly beans. It just wouldn't be as much fun. If I knew exactly where I fit in, there wouldn't be anything left to wonder about. There wouldn't be any questions left to ask. 
Frank Cristinzio is a senior. He lives in 
Stanford Hall. 


Wednesday, October 5, 1994 
Here lies the scheme of Hillar , To raise the people's taxes. J5 pals 
Tw~uld have made things worse 1"\llO. rationed care 
' 

So you killed it with your faxes. ../ REST lN PIECES ~ 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A liberal education means taking responsibility for it 
Dear Editor: 
What is a liberal education? If you posed this question to Notre Dame 
students, how many could muster a coherent answer? Many of us enter 
Not~e ~a?le hoping, that after four years, we will leave as liberally educat­
ed mdividuals. We therefore have a responsibility to offer insightful 
responses to this fundamental question. 
Before attributing the degradation of the liberal education to uninspiring 
professors ("A boring liberal education," September 28, 1994), students 
must claim partial responsibility for its apparent failure. In her column, 
Meaghan Smith claims that liberal education is the discovery of "what per­
sonal knowledge can be pieced together through contact with diverse 
studies." But it is more than this; the liberal education teaches us how to 
think by strictly disciplining the mind. The University is not obligated to 
giv~ us anything in terms of education. It is responsible for providing an 
enVIronment conducive to intellectual and spiritual exploration. 
We must stop denying or at least ignoring the plain truth: we are 
responsible for our own education. Despite our valiant attempt to deny 
and/or mitigate the harshness of reality, the intellectual freedom allowed 
by "contact with diverse studies" cannot be divorced from responsibility. 
This denial manifests itself in the popular yet insidious dichotomy between 
the lecture hall and the residence hall-the classroom and our real lives. 
There exists a dangerous tendency around campus to believe that learning 
occurs exclusively in the classroom. Any honest professor would respond 
by saying that knowledge is earned by thoughtful engagement of a text 
outside of class. A meaningful classroom conversation, based upon careful 
study and meditation upon a text by professor and student, functions as a 
point of real life intersection, not departure. So before bemoaning the mis­
erable state of the liberal education, we must ask ourselves if we are living 
up to our end of the bargain. 
STEVE JURAS Junior Zahm Hall 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 

MOMMY,  7HAT5  5Hc'5 A MINISTER. OF  
tuHor,  AJ<IANNA­ L-IGHTIN JDHN-f?a:£R'S  
7HAT  JOHNHUf­ MOV&M/3NTOfPIRITUAL.. IN­ 
:i71<ANG£ RN67VN,  NER. JWAR£N/335, ANO 91&'3  
LAP'f?  fiONt  aJING708APTIZC YOU'  
\  

/JCARL.Y!Jt;LOVt/Jl IA/HO 5/ZKS 
7VANOINTTHI5 OIIW!N7D 7Hc SOU/.. ReALM OF THe M'IS­TICAL.. 7RAVc/.£R. (J)Nfi(]OfEN£:93? 
/ N/3 LA?, YOUR. IW31GHTRJlNcPJ l 5.AMLWTHA­
HOW

ROGER. 
IT.

MOONE3AU... 
I
I 

''When the President does it, that means that it is not illegal." 
-Richard Nixon 

------~~-====~---~---, 
~ 
l l 
I 
I I I I 
j
ACCENT I 
I
Wedneday, October 5, 1994 page 9 
• 
Traveling Circus of Sound 1 I ~ 
•
Indigo Girls bring their acoustic melodies to ND ~ 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Critic 
T he Indigo Girls will be taking their traveling circus of sounds to Stepan Center tonight. It will be the second time in their storied career that they will have visited the Notre Dame Campus. Formed in 1985, it took the Indigo Girls three years, one single one EP, and one full­length album, before signed with Epic Rec Since then it has been busy six years as the steadily climbed the ranks folk musicians. 
Even though they are n recognized as one of the folk acts, Emily Saliers and Ray still treat their songcrafting an art, respecting the medium has taken them so far. 
"It is just saying that we have respect the way things are even if we do not understand times. Maybe there is something in the works that we will understand later. The song is more about wrestling with yourself than it is about being famous--we are not that famous," says Ray of "Fugitive", one of the songs on their latest release, Swamp Ophelia. 
Released on May 10 of this year, Swam Ophelia has been met 
w i t h wide critical acclaim as a pro­gressive move forward into Indigo's realm of heartfelt 
album, 

entitled Back on 
the Bus Y'all , contains 
some material which was record­
ed at that Notre Dame concert in 1990. 
"I have pulling out their CO's to listen to lately," says Colleen Lauerman, a Cavanaugh Hall sophomore, ''I'm really looking forward to the show because I have never seen them live before." 
The Indigo Girls are famous for their wonderfully intimate live performances, and are also greatly enhanced by all their touring. 
"They will bring energy to this cam­pus with their powerful lyrics and impressive vocals," says Carrie Scanlon, a Farley Hall junior, "plus, they are just cool." 
Ryan Duncan, an Alumni Hall junior. agrees. "It should prove to be an enjoy­able show," he says, "and the ticket sales have already proved that it will be a successful one." 
There are still tickets available for tonight's show. These available tickets will go on sale when the doors open at 
7:00 p.m. The show is set to begin at 8:00p.m. 

Band de 5oleil'a debut C. D. exhibits new rock focua 
By ROB ADAMS Music Critic 
Although The Indigo Girls are the band that everyone wants to see tomorrow night, two opening acts will also be pro­viding entertainment: Band de Solei! and Janet McGlaughlin. 
Band de Soleil's formation in June of 1993, took place in Atlanta ending the somewhat successful solo career of Michelle Malone, who had previously released three solo albums by the age of 26. 
These days, however, she is joined by Danny Bigay on drums and Mike Snowden on bass leaving her earlier acoustic stuff behind and focusing more on improving her guitar expertise and writing some hard-edged rock-n-roll. 
Malone, singer, songwriter, and gui­tarist, is the driving force behind the band's debut, Redemption Dream. 
"When does the nightmare stop/When does the dream begin," asks a desper­ate Malone on the title track. Funky wah-wah pedal rhythm begins "Redemption Dream," the track title, also the opening song of the album, leading into the powerful vocals of Malone --scorching through a Southern fried rock extravaganza. 
"Gathering" is a soft, soulful ballad concerning, ironically enough with such a subtle beat, a call for everyone, regardless of race, class or creed, to come together and party with them. Quick pickings on an acoustic guitar are smoothed out over the laid-back drum arrangement. 
A psychedelic keyboard introduction opens the song "Hollow Day." The drama is heightened as the end-of-the­road guitar riffs surface and the cym­bals rise and eventually lead to ... Malone. Her sultry voice completely makes the song an extremely worth­while listening experience. 
Band de Solei! is one band that will def­initely sound exciting live. Their thick riffs and traditional rock arrangements will only serve to challenge Malone and her wonderful vocals. More than likely, she will handle the task with fluid con­sistency, proven by her successful past 
8 HoiiO\V nnv  
M. Malont  
Dtath don't nttd a rta~on to camp and takt you, child, away Lo~~ alwa~ in ~u~on dot~n 't take a holiday  a holiday a hollow day a hallowtd day no holiday  
It ltavP~ you in your mourning long about an tvening fro~t look away frcm living and ~uddtnly you find it's lo~t  So pack your alligator you may bt tht fi~t to go Just what you'rp worth only tht undtrtaktr knows.  

a holiday a hollow day ahallowed day no holiday 
page 10 

The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 5, 1994 
i 
I • COllEGE fOOTBAll 
I I I 
I Howard guarantees Illinois victory 
I 
~ 
I I I I I I l I I I I I I I I ~ I I I I I I l I I I I ' I  By RUSlY MILLER Associated Press COLUMBUS, Ohio Ohio State coach John Cooper won't rule out the possibility that, come Saturday, the words of Illinois linebacker Dana Howard might just appear on the bulletin board in the 17th­Recruits continued from page 16 Bell balked at Kansas, one-of the most successful programs in the country in recent years and Gottlieb said no to UCLA where he could have played in front of mom and dad every night. It's a top 20· recruiting class according to most people who are paid to know these things, possibly in the top 10 among the early-signing players. The group forms a nucleus that could make Notre Dame a  ranked Buckeyes' locker room. Howard, the Big Ten's leading tackler, guaranteed Monday during a conference call that Illinois would come into Ohio Stadium Saturday and win. "It's going to take a special effort," Howard said, "but we're going to do it." Illinois coach Lou Tepper said Pippin And Hickey is just plain big, a factor that has been missing from Notre Dame's roster since Keith Tower went wherever it is he went. But comparisions, particular­ly to Keith Tower, are unfair to athletes with a full season of high school competition ahead. What's certain is that Notre Dame basketball has once again shown its prowess on the recruiting trail, inspiring renewed optimism in a pro­gram that had fallen off the map.  he was "disappointed" in Howard's prediction, while Cooper said his players are counseled to not make brash statements about opponents. "We try to spend as much time as we can, or a consider­able amount of time, with our players in the preseason trying to school them on how to ad­dress the press and how to in­telligently answer questions," Cooper said Tuesday during his weekly news conference. "Certainly, I don't think any coach likes to see any kind of bulletin-board material as far as the other football team." Tepper is a prime example. ''I'm really disappointed that he said that," Tepper said in a conference call about Howard's remark. "I wasn't aware of that until he apologized to the team after practice (Monday). I don't' think it was a very team-con­scious comment. I think it was a comment out of frustration.  might be locker room material or whatever, but we'll win this weekend." Cooper said he wasn't sure if he would clip Howard's words and put them up in the locker room. He said it might not be necessary. "Our players down here have obviously heard about it," he said. Neither team is in a position to guarantee much based on last Saturday's performances. Illinois (2-2 overall and 0-1 in the Big Ten), leading the nation in defense, lost at home to Purdue 22-16. Ohio State (4-1, 1-0) was shut out 9-0 in the first half at Northwestern and had to turn away a fourth­quarter two-point conversion attempt to preserve a 17-15 victory. The Buckeyes had beaten Northwestern the last 18 meet­ It was Cooper, speaking at Ohio State's football banquet last December, who guaranteed the Buckeyes would beat whomever they played in a bowl game. Soccer continued from page 16 road. The defense has surprisingly become the teams strong suit. Making the move to five mid­fielders at the beginning of the season left some concern with how the defense would manage with only three fullbacks in front of keeper Bert Bader. The unit responded to the challenge, and has only given up a eight goals in ten games. This is a surprising achieve­ment for a team aligned to pro­duce goals. As the Irish prepare their  
force in the near future. Each brings a unique brand of basketball. Bell is a wide body in the mold, if not the manner, of Charles Barkley. Gottlieb is billed as the best point guard on the west coast, a gym rat like Bobby Hurley. Wyche's coach called the shooting guard "mv Scottie  Aside from Bell, who commit­ted before the Irish joined the Big East, each of the prospects admitted that the new confer­ence affiliation, at least in part, affected their decision. Welcome to the Big East, Notre Dame. And welcome back to the world of big-time college bas­ketball.  And the only thing he can guar­antee is the way he's going to play. But he is not the spokesman for how our team is going to play." After making the guarantee, Howard added, "Hey, if you want to tell them that, you can tell them, but that's my state­ment. That's the way I feel. It  ings by an average score of 45­10. "It might have been an ugly victory, but it was a victory," Cooper said. "I've been coach­ing long enough to realize that you take 'em any way you can get 'em. We dodged a bullet, sure, but we still won the ball­game."  bags for their game at Illinois tonight, they try and remember to pack the golden boot. Whether it will be in Tim Oates's bag or not is left to be seen. One thing is for sure though, the defensive squad will be working to add the Ramblers to their list of vic­tims.  
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2  
cents per character per day, including all spaces.  
NOTICES  PIZZA MAKER • PART TIME • EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD  STUDENT AND GAS NEEDED FOR BYU AND GAS FOR AF.  I need 2 BYU GAs for my parents. They are nice people. Call2556  Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call Sue at 277-8995  PERSONAL  
MONEY.  PLEASE! CALL JEANNE AT  
II!I!ATTENTION SOPHO·  CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW  X2478.  '"''"NEED BYU TIX'""  Need 2 Navy GA's. Call287-1953  
MORES!!!!!  YORK  STUDS OR GA'S  
The Class of '97 Service Project will  257-1100.  $$$Help! I need 2 Navy GAs.  CALL CHAD AT 289-9050  Need three GAs for any home  I need Indigo Girls nx-Call Erin at  
be kicking off the year with a house  Please call Lisa at277·0740. Will  game. Call Matt at289·2710  X2559.  
painting project on Sunday, 10/9. It  VOLUNTEERS ARE NEEDED AT  pay top dollars.$$$  I NEED NAVY GA'S  baaahh  
will be the first of many projects  THE EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVEL·  MARK X1640  real good, real good  
with the Northeast Neighborhood.  OPMENT CENTER AT NOTRE  NEED 2 GA's for NAVY &  I need Navy GA's. Paul at X2681  
Help us get off to a great start and  DAME & SAINT MARY'S. SEA·  NEED 4 GA's for BYU  Need 3 BYU GA's &  The willage is a node in the nexxus  
help us help others. Talk to your  VICES SUCH AS READING,  CALL Chris x-1353  3 NAVY GA's  of Indian society.  
Sophomore Class Council Dorm  CRAFTS & PLAYING WITH CHIL­ call4-2010  I NEED 2 BYU GA's!  
Rep, or call Brian at x1 058. Thanks  OREN. 75 MINS. ONCE A WEEK.  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  Call Julie @277-4612  ... **** * * * ••••••• * ••••••• * •  
-trust us ...  PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 284·  HOME GAMES. 272·7233.  SELL ME YOUR AIR FORCE TIXS  Interested in World travel?  
"'""YOU WILL HAVE FUN!'"""  4693.  CALL-BRENDAN AT 277·6315  WANTED BOTON COLLEGE  Semester Around the World partici- 
NEED FSUTIX  2771659  pants eam 16 credit hours and trav- 
USED TEXTS CHEAP!!!! Buy & sell used books at the only  FOR RENT  SUSAN 2771724  NEEDED, B.C. TIX. WILL GIVE KIDNEY, BLOOD (TYPE A+), OR  NY Alum needs 1·4 tickets for BYU  elthroughout Asia and Europe. Two months of study is done in  
hip place in town 10-6M·S/9-3Sun  I NEED BYU GA'S  FIRST BORN CHILD. CALL  game. Call 1-800-666-4949  Madras, India, at Stella Maris col- 
PANDORA'S BOOKS  THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  CALL JEFF @ 277-8250  BRENT AT 277-9442  ext. 220. Ask for Ann Hiens  lege.  Come to the informational  
ND ave & Howard St 233·2342  NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED  meeting held October 5 at 7:00 in  
BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC  BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  I need 3 G.a>'s to B.Y.U. If u can help, call Ron at x1736  PLEASE!! I NEED TWO AIR FORCE GA'S PARENTS COMING  Needed:1 GA to air force and 1 GA to BYU or Navy-call ann x4544  the Library Auditorium. * ••••• •••••• ••• * ...............  
OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219·  FROM FLAil  #3601  
ANYBODY INTERSTED IN WISH·  773-2034  Desperate for BYU GA  Handsome J: Don't get any funky  
lNG DAVID GORDON(B.C. KICK­ Ted@4-3485  ########################  My parents will disown me if  ideas ... and watch it when you  
ER GOOD LUCK, GIVE HIM A  THE PRIMROSE PATH BED &  3 TICKETS (GA OR STU.) FOR  I don't get them 2 Navy GA's  laugh Ill  
CALL AT 617·558-8948. ASK FOR  BREAKFAST· Historic Home, quiet  I need one Air Force GA or student  BYU GAME ... CALL ASAP  Callx2703.  
GORDO, AND TELL HIM WHAT  setting, 4 guest rooms, shared  ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please  WILL PAY BIG MONEY!!!  Need ride to Iowa 4 fall break  
YOU THINK.  baths. 20 minutes to campus.  call X3822. Thanks!  CALL X2125 ..LEAVE OFFER  BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC  x-4333Jim  
616·695-6321.  We need Boston College tickets!  
BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC  NEED 4 Air Force G.A.'s. Will  NEED 2 BYU GA'S. WILL PAY  Call Jeff or Eric at 232-8337  You don't really want to drive all the  
ILOST & FOUND I BEST HOUSE OFF CAMPUS HUGE 4BR 1/1-2 BATH, WASHER DRYER. CLEAN, CLEAN! DON'T  TRADE 4 FLA. ST. G.A.'s or other home game G.A.'s. Joe x1748.  $$$$$$-call Brian @ X1739 Please, sell me one ticket to FSUI  BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC BC GAS FOR SALE  way to BC ... Save your time & eam some$$ Sell me your tix x1475  
WAIT ANOTHER DAY-SIGN UP  HELP! I need 4 Navy tickets-stud.  Monica-X2995  GREG 277-7475  To the girt who left her green Notre  
FOUND a pen on Sept. 23. Call  NOW FOR '95. 4/5 STUDENTS.  and GA. Call Brian at x.2034  Dame sweatshirt on my bed after  
Lisa 289-8227  259-7801.  4 SALE: 2 Navy GAs-CALL with  NEED GA'S FOR BYU AND AIR  the party in 209 Morrissey on  
WANTED  II  FOR SALE  I NEED 2 BYU GAs CALL McKENNA 271-2956 Desparately need 4 BYU GA's  b/o 4·4824 I NEED 1 NAVY G.A.I Call Sean @1432.  FORCE, NICK X4073 MY MOM NEEDS 2 AIR FORCE & 1 FSU GA • KAREN 4290  Friday: Please call Aaron@3507 so I may know your name This Friday Night at 9:00  
'"SPRING BREAK 95'"  '71 M.G. MIDGETT RED CON·  Call Megan at 4072  Smoking Popes  
America's #1 Spring Break  VERTIBLE. SHARP, RUNS GOOD.  Need 6 BYU GA's, Pairs OK, Pis  NEED 4 FSU TIX-AICH UNCLE  with Sweep the Leg Johnny  
Company! Cancun, Bahamas,  $1,700. CALL277-3239.  I NEED 3 AF GAs-call Sam x4872  Help, 273-6463, Maria  WILL PAY BIG$$$ CHRIS X3095  up in the loft in LaFortune  
Daytona & Panama I 110% Lowest  only $1.00 to see a band that  
Price Guarantee! Organize 15  85 SAAB 900 Turbo SPG  NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED  Patty really needs 2 BC tix  NEED 1 BYU Tick  has opened for Green Day.  
friends and TRAVEL FREEl Eam  Black w/fan int., sunroof, 72K mi.,  call her at 4072  Stud orGA  Sponsored by WVFI/SUB  
highest commissions! (800)32·  very clean, new stereo, $4500  BOSTON COLLEGE GAs  Please Call Darryl @4243  
TRAVEL  631·0141, 277-5712 Eve.  Call Marc at X3300 or X3309  Sale: Studs. All Remaining Games  I need tickets for the BYU game  
NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED  Call Tom at2042  Help\\ I need Tix for BYU\1  and a date. If you can help me with  
CONDO FOR SALE-Woodbridge­ Monica-X2995  either, call Dave at x1560.  
.....  NEEDED\\!  ""'  Minutes from NO-end unit on pond·  PARENTS HATE YOU?  HATE DOING LAUNDRY??? Sell  
WE NEED MAYA ANGELOU TICK­ 18177F Stonerldge-2BR+Loft,  SELL ME THEIR NAVY TIX\1  us your BC TICKETS and we'll do  Seeking man with unlimited funds  
ETS\1 CALL WITH YOUR PRICE.  Fireplace, All Gar w/Opener·  SERIOUS CASH!!  it for you\\ Call x2984 for some cash  '"Attention SMC women"'  to shake and bake at the Grotto and  
LAURA x2145 OR X2114.  $58,000-Call232-5190.  CALL JERRY AT 3024  and some clean clothes\\  We will trade ND football tickets for  at Sacred Heart in a few years. Call  
Maya A. tickets-One student foot- Michele Potter.  
NEEDED-a RIDE from anyone  TICKETS  Need 4 BYU tickets. Student or GA. Please call Joe at4 x 4485.  $$$$$$$$$$$$ Need2 BCTIX  ball ticket (any of the three remain­ing home games) for two Maya tick·  I love you Michele!!llll  
going to BOSTON COLLEGE on  Call Marc @ 233-4008  ets. Call Beth and Rachel at 634·  Your perma-date,  
OCT 5 or 6-call Sarah x2384  I NEED 8 TICKETS TO BYU  $$$$$$$$$$$$  1504  Kimmy writes on ...  
WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU  STUDENT OR GA'S CALL  
TICKETS. CALL  MEGHAN X4541  NEED 5 BYU GA'S-CALL Joe @  Bring back Jason Kelly's pick!  
Deliver Birthday Cakes  800-922·2327 JANET.  x2765  $$$$$$$$  Bring back Jason Kelly's pick!  
:30min/day  I GIVE NEW MEANING TO THE  Need Navy GA's  When life gives you lemons, make  
flexible hours, must have own cer  WORD DESPERATE! Will trade  Call Marc@ 233-4008  lemonade .. .When the dining hall  
call272·15061eave message  I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.  2Navy GA's tor 2BYU or 2AirForce  WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GAs FOR  $$$$$$$$$$  gives you lots of options, life gives  
272-6551  GA's OR will pay$1call Anne#4252  2 BYU TIX. Call Val #4·2597  you JASON KELLY to help you!  

Wednesday, October 5, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 

NCAA coaches address sportsmanship 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Asaociated Press 
HOUSTON 

The National Association of Basketball Coaches started the discussion about sportsmanship long before its issues summit began Tuesday. 
The organization's publica­tion, "Courtside," had a full­page color cover photo of two coaches shaking hands with the headline: "Sportsmanship. A quest to restore college basket­ball's good name." 
The headline was brought up a few times in the 90-minute session on sportsmanship and ethical conduct. 
"I have a problem with the headline on our publication," Air Force coach Reggie Minton said. "It should say retain not restore our sport's good name." 
Taunting, fighting and crowd conduct and control all were brought up and discussed, but Minton was the speaker who summed it up for the coaches and administrators in atten­dance. 
"Everybody better understand sportsmanship is part of your job, no one else's," he said. "It is common sense, good taste, bench decorum, all those things. You must demand, ex­pect and set certain goals and take nothing less just as you would on the court." 
The issues summit was the second held by the NABC and the first attended by its black members as the Black Coaches Association called for a boycott of the inaugural meeting in Charlotte, N.C. The leadership of the BCA met instead with the Black Congressional Caucus to voice displeasure over the loss of a scholarship and academic entrance requirements based on standardized test scores. 
Initial eligibility will be a ses­sion topic Wednesday and it's expected to be well-attended and heated. 
"We will have a written posi­tion on initial eligibility," NABC executive director Jim Haney said. "It's a subject that the or­ganization feels strongly about." 
Missing from the discussion on sportsmanship was any men­tion on coach vs. coach be­havior. It seemed logical it would come up following a sea­son that saw a number of con­frontations between coaches repeated over and over again on highlight shows. 
"I was surprised it didn't come up and I was surprised the role of officials wasn't ad­dressed," Haney said. "This is a topic that has so much gray area. I was waiting for an ad­ministrator to bring up the sub­ject of coaches but it never did. We will go back and draft a game management manual with recommendations in these areas." 

~~I could have ~nt my summer on the beadi,but Idecided it would be better spent in the fiel<f] 
"There's no substitute for real experience. At least, that's my opinion. And it's obviously the opinion at Ernst & Young. My name is Craig Hallenbeck, and I've just completed what I can honestly say is one of the most satisfying and growing experiences of my life: A summer internship at Ernst & Young Chicago. 
It lasted only three months, but in that short time, I gained more technical know-how and business savvy than I ever could in a classroom. But that's only part of it. The opportunity to work side by side, out in the field, with E&Y professionals, and to deal directly with clients from several large companies, instilled in me the feeling that I belong here; that this is exactly what I want to do. It's something I was never completely sure of until I arrived here. 
At every turn I felt as if my opinion counted for something. Everyone I met encouraged me to learn as much as I could, to take the initiative in finding original solutions to problems that I hadn't known existed. From working on audits for manufacturing firms to researching the casino industry for Special Services, I discovered that no solution is a hundred percent infallible. Every person at E&Y continuously strives to find one better. 
This 'find a better way' attitude seems to permeate even the most personal aspects of the firm. Special arrangements and flex sched­ules for employees are commonplace. The people at E&Y work very hard. But it's understood that each of them has a life outside the office. Adjustments more for personal needs are viewed as a resource, not a liability. How many firms have ·the vision to realize this, and more importantly, act on it? 
I guess you can tell I'm impressed. Everything I saw had a positive effect on me. And if I had to make the choice all over again, rest assured,my sunscreen would stay exactly where it's been all summer: Sitting comfortably in my cabinet at home. 
i!J ERNST& YOUNG LLP 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 5, 1994 
• Cou.EGE FmrrsAu. • Sr. MARY~s Vm.LEYBALI. 
Despite Hawkeye Belles dumped in five games 
woes, Fry optimistic 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
CHRISTY 
See You and the Irish 
in Boston on Saturday!! Jb I ... !~···· I ·•··.·......· Love,
I ~~ 'I 'tl Mom, Dad,
tllll,. 

jimmy and David 
•
• 
•
•
• 
• • 
• 
• 

By CHRISTINA TECSON Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's volleyball team played a tough game against Hope College last night in Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles competitive spirit lasted until the end as they lost in the fifth game of a very intense match. 
Coming in with a 14-5 record, Hope beat Saint Mary's in the first game 15-5, and in the third 15-7. But the Belles strong sense of compusure en­abled them to rebound and an­swer with a win in the second game 15-12 and again in the fourth15-12. This match was brought to the final game where Hope edged Saint Mary's by one point. 
Meg Kelly led the team in kills with 14 and Sarah Stroncxek followed with 13. Betsy Connolly fmished with 10 kills, Ann Lawrence with 8 kills on the night and Kelly Prosser had seven. Leading in blocking were Stroncxek with 7. Prosser and Connolly each with 4 and Lawrence with 3. 
This loss brings Saint Mary's to a 7-6 record but the team will agree that, despite the score, the game was not a total loss. 
"I think it was the best match we've played," said freshman Kelly Meyer. "The talent level was pretty even so it was a toss up as to who would win." 
The experience on the other side of the court kept the Belles challenged but playing their best. 
"That's the best we've played so far," Saint Mary's coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "That's the most we've been challenged." 
Hope was also a much im­proved team since last year as she pointed out. 
"I recognized a lot of their faces and know that they're much more experienced than we are," she said. "This was very encouraging for us to play this tough. Even though this was a loss I think it will carry our spirits into the tournament this weekend," she said, inviting all to "Come and support us." 
By GREG SMITH Associated Press 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 
Anyone thinking Iowa football coach Hayden Fry would be glum after the Hawkeyes' third straight loss last weekend should have been at Tuesday's news conference. 
He's not exactly a threat to David Letterman, but Fry was in an uncommonly jovial mood as he poked fun at columnists, beat reporters, players -even his choice of ties. 
"I had to borrow one of Philip's ties this morning," he said, referring to sports infor­mation director Phil Haddy. "It's got flowers on it. I wanted a daisy; forgot my earring," Fry said. 
A reporter asked him about Saturday's contest against the Hoosiers of Indiana. 
"Hooters?" Fry said. 
Well, then, what about Bobby Diaco, the team's leading tack­ler who has had to play nearly every down because the Hawkeyes are thin at line­backer? 
"He's got Italian blood lines. Every time I walk in the locker room I look to see if he's got his violin case or not," the coach said. 
Don't feel bad, Bobby. Michigan running back Tim Biakabutuka got the same treatment when Fry referred to him as, "that Irishman, you can't pronounce his name." 
When Fry moved on to the subject of football, one topic was considerably less funny: defense. 

Although the Hawkeyes' pass defense is fourth in the Big Ten, its rushing defense is last, allowing 217.6 yards per game. What's worse is Iowa defenders are second-to-last in the con­ference in turnover margins, ahead of only Minnesota. 
In five games, Iowa has seven takeaways, including five fum­bles and two interceptions. The top team, Michigan, has 13 takeaways. 
"We've got to start getting more turnovers on defense. This is the worst team I've had defensively as far as getting turnovers," Fry said. "We're not creating them. 
"We're fighting for our lives trying to survive rather than knocking the ball loose .... We haven't gotten around to coaching knocking the ball loose yet. We're still trying to teach them how to tackle." 
The Hawkeyes also have given the ball away 13 times, six on fumbles and seven intercep­tions by quarterback Ryan Driscoll. 
"Frankly, we've stopped our­selves as much as anybody," Fry said. "If we don't quit mak­ing critical turnovers and penalties, we're not going to 
win." 
Turnovers and penalties ­Iowa is the most penalized team in the Big Ten with 41­have led to losses to Penn State, Oregon and Michigan after opening the year with vic­tories over Central Michigan and Iowa State. 
Injuries forced Fry into start­ing three new defensive players in last week's loss to Michigan. 
Wednesday, October 5, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COllEGE FOI.liBAU. 
Miami's Sapp will Gordon remembers kick 
be key against FSU 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 

Warren Sapp says Florida State never had a chance against the Miami Hurricanes. 
The junior defensive tackle and Outland Trophy contender was once a top prep prospect sought by both schools. He chose Miami and hopes to ~ake Florida State regret his decision Saturday when the two teams meet in the Orange Bowl. 
Sapp grew up in Plymouth, an unincorporated town near Orlando with just one restau­rant and 3,200 residents. He made a recruiting trip to Tallahassee, then eliminated it from contention. 
"I didn't like it at all," Sapp said Tuesday. ''I'm from a small town, so I didn't want to go to a small town. That's like being at home.... 
''I'm an orange-and-green man, not a garnet-and-gold. I don't like a spear on my hel­met; I like that 'U.' 1 like sunny weather; it's cold up there in Tallahassee. I don't like any­thing about it. There's nothing to like." 
While Sapp might be guilty of unnecessary roughness, par­ticularly concerning Tallahassee's weather, Florida State coach Bobby Bowden has only good things to say about the Hurricanes' star. 
"When you look at the University of Miami, the first guy that catches your attention is No. 76," Bowden said. "He definitely belongs in the honor roll of the many great defensive linemen they've had. He might be better than all of them." 
Miami defensive tackles in the past decade included Russell Maryland, Cortez Kennedy and the late Jerome Brown, each a first-round draft pick in the NFL. 
Sapp, fast and overpowering at 6-foot-3 and 284 pounds, is just as dominant as his prede­cessors. This season he has 29 tackles, three sacks, one fumble forced and two fumbles re­covered for 13th-ranked Miami (3-1). 
"He's kind of a starting point of their defense," Bowden said. "He's the guy that can intimi­date, the guy that can destroy, the guy that can ruin a game plan. You'd better block him." 
Sapp has been double-teamed most of season and invites the same challenge against Florida Sta.te, because he knows it would mean one less blocker for his teammates to deal with. 
"Go right ahead and double­team me," Sapp said. "I've got­ten pretty accustomed to going against two people. I know how to get out of it." 
But while Sapp sounds confi­dent and slams the Seminoles, he also respects them. The Miami-Florida State game is always circled on his calendar. 
"There's not a day I don't think about it," he said. "It's what you live for. It's what men are made of. You have to be a real man to step on the field and go four quarters with Florida State." 
Of course, the Seminoles could 
have eliminated Sapp as a con­
cern by luring him north with a 
scholarship. 

1994 STUDENTS AT THE TAJ MAHALL 
SAINT MARY'S SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM OPEN TO ALL ND/SMC STUDENTS 
CHALLENGING ACADEMIC PROGRAM FOCUSING ON THE ASIAN WORLD 16 SEMESTER CREDITS APPLICABLE TOWARDS CORE OR MAJOR REQUIREMENTS 
OPPORTUNITY TO TRAVEL AND STUDY IN MANY COUNTRIES OF FAR EAST, SOUTHEAST ASIA, SOUTH ASIA, EASTERN AND WESTERN EUROPE. 
COST: A SEMESTER'S SMC TUITION-ROOM-BOARD PLUS A SURCHARGE. 
INFORMATION MEETING WEDNESDAY, OCTOBERS, 1994 7 P.M. HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: DR. C. PULLAPILLY MADELEVA 336.SMC. 284--4468/4474 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

They knew David Gordon in a small Wisconsin town where he worked at a summer camp for kickers. He's seen his kick re­played maybe 10 times on tele­vision. 
Now, heading into Boston College's rematch Saturday with eighth-ranked Notre Dame, Gordon is reliving his 41-yard, last-play field goal that ruined the Fighting Irish's national championship hopes last year. 
He'd just as soon slip out of the spotlight. 
"I just answer questions about the game and what went on last year," he says. "But when I step on the practice field this year, all I think about is this year and preparing for Notre Dame.'' 
Notre Dame had just come off a dramatic win over Florida State and replaced the Seminoles as the nation's top­ranked team. Boston College, the Fighting Irish's next oppo­nent, was expected to be less competitive, especially at South Bend, Ind. 
But the Eagles led 38-17 be­fore a fourth-quarter rally put Notre Dame ahead 39-38. Boston College got the ball back at its 25-yard line with 1:01 left and moved to the Notre Dame 24 with five seconds remaining. 
"The crowd really wasn't a factor there," Gordon said. "Wherever I kick, I'm really good at blocking out the crowd and any distractions. 
"Whether I'm kicking an extra point or a field goal, I treat every kick the same. I go out there and say, 'I want to be one-for-one. I want to make this kick.' I don't think about the consequences.'' 
Notre Dame was 10-0 and playing its last regular-season game. Boston College was 7-2 and on a seven-game winning streak. With five seconds left, the walk-on placekicker whose father, Richard, owns the Hartford Whalers, walked onto the hallowed ground of Notre Dame Stadium. 
Quarterback Glenn Foley set the ball down. Gordon, who made just 7 -of-11 field goals last year, blasted it through the uprights with plenty to spare, giving Boston College a 41-39 win. 
He was an instant celebrity. · 
"This summer I worked at a camp in River Falls, Wis., and it's amazing how the campers reacted toward me," Gordon said. "I didn't realize how niuch national attention I cre­ated over this one kick. 
"My life hasn't really changed too much," he said. ''I've kept pretty much the same low pro­file that I've always had. (The kick) has helped me on the field as far as being a better place­kicker. I've worked a lot harder this year (on) improving my ac­curacy and distance. 
"Last year I felt like 45 yards was a very comfortable range for me," he added. "Now I feel like 50 yards for me is like an extra point.'' 
Gordon has made just one of three field goals this year, but coach Dan Henning is happy with the senior. He points out that one of the misses was blocked and the other came af:. ter a penalty nullified a successful kick. 
"I wish I could have more field-goal attempts to prove I'm not just a one-kick guy," Gordon said. 
"David Gordon is the kind of kicker I like," Henning said. "He doesn't say much. He doesn't look like he gets ruffied. He doesn't seem to have any highs and lows.... He's one of the most even-keeled people I've ever met." 
"I don't think (the kick) has affected him at all," Eagles tight end Pete Mitchell said. "He knows that the situation might come up again and he needs to make it again in order to keep that reputation going." 
A lot has changed since that famous kick. 
New Orange Bowl site possible 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

At least two conference com­missioners in the bowl alliance want the Orange Bowl Classic to move to Joe Robbie Stadium so that the game is assured of a neutral site. 
The University of Miami plays its home games in the Orange Bowl and has played in the New Year's night game four times since 1984. 
Commissioners say the Orange Bowl Committee must decide by next Wednesday whether to move the game in 1997, and they are expecting the commit­tee to do so. Committee mem­bers have scheduled a vote on the question for Tuesday. 
DANCERS! 
There will be an organizational meeting for the Dance Collective 
Thursday, Oct. 6 
5:45p.m. Regina Dance Studio, SMC 
MEN ARE ENCOURAGED TO ATIEND. 
"This is not a minor issue -it has to do with neutrality and fairness," said Roy Kramer, commissioner of the Southeastern Conference. 
Since 1984, Miami has won all four of its games in the Orange Bowl Classic by a combined score of 96-47, with three of the victories clinching a nation­al championship. 
If a majority of the 198 voting committee members choose to stay in the Orange Bowl after its stadium contract expires Jan. 2, 1996, the game could be dropped from the alliance and replaced by the Gator Bowl. 
"The key to all of this is we're no longer in control of this situ­ation," said Keith Tribble, Orange Bowl Classic executive director. 
FINANCE CLUB 
EFFECTNE INTERVIEWING Guest Speaker: Prof. James 0' Rourke 
Dr. O'Rourke is Director, Notre Dame Center for Business Communication and Associate Professor of Management at the University of Notre Dame. 
Place: 131 DeBartolo When: Thursday, October 6 Time: 7:30 ~ 8:30 p.m. 
page 14 The Observer • SPUKI"S Wednesday, October 5, 1994 
• WOMEN'S INTERHAU 

Badin, Lyons in division showdown 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Sports Writer 
The start may have been a lit­tle been shaky, but from then on everthing else was smooth sailing. 
This was the case last Wednesday night as Badin sophomore Amber Simonic took her first snap from center against Howard. Simonic pro­ceeded to fumble the snap, but managed to recover the ball. 
After that, there would be no more miscues as the Attitudes (1-1) routed the Ducks 20-0, setting up a key matchup tonight with division rival Lyons (2-1) at Cartier Field. 
"The first play didn't go to well," said Simonic. "But from there the team as a whole played really well." 
Simonic was starting her first game ever due to the injury freshman Marie Basbagill suf­fered against Pangborn. Basbagill twisted her knee and is expected to return in next week's game against Walsh. In the meantime, Simonic will try to lead the Attitudes to an upset victory over No. 3 Lyons. 
"Amber played great against Howard," said captain Jill Satanek. "We also were pre­pared well and we're much more aggressive than in the previous loss." 

Simonic also readily gave praise to the rest of the squad for the shutout win. 
"Jill caught everything I threw to her," added Simonic. "Our defense also played strong in preserving the shutout." 
Badin will need some of that same aggressive defense tonight against the high-pow­ered Lyons offense led by quar­terback Julie Byrd and halfback Jenny Layden. 
Coming off a tough one-point loss to Pangborn last Wednesday, Lyons dominated Howard 20-8 on Sunday. 
"We just stayed focused in that game," said Layden. "We learned from our mistakes in the game before and played much better." 
Howard will need to stop the potent running game the Lyons offense has installed. On Sunday Layden sacred the first touchdown on a sweep. Byrd followed that as she found the endzone on the quarterback keeper. 
"We put in a few new wrinkles this week to try and stop the run," said Satanek. 
Howard vs. Walsh 

The Indigo Girls have arrived at Notre Dame, so the women's interhall football teams will be forced to play with fewer play­ers tonight since many players have chosen the concert over their games. 
The winless Howard Ducks will be playing without their quarterback as a result of the concert when they face unde­feated Walsh, currently ranked No. 1. Efforts to change the game to Thursday night have stalled due to the fact that some coaches will be away at Boston for the this week's football clash against the Golden Eagles. 
"It should be a pretty interest­ing game," captain Lynn Que nan. 
Howard will attempt to win their first game in three tries as they raise their level of play against Walsh. Their practices have concentrated on Walsh's offense. 
"Our defense will focus on their passing game," Quenan said. 
On the other side of the side­lines, Walsh will continue to do the things which has given them a 3-0 record. 
"We've been perfecting our own plays," sophomore Ann Jackoboice said. 
Their offense will attempt to balance the running game with the air attack. 
"We will be mixing it up. We'll run often with some pass­ing plays," Jackoboice said. 
Despite the fact that Howard has yet to win a game, the team has kept an optimistic outlook. 
"People are really positive," Quenan said. 
-LARRY VOIGT 
Cavanaugh vs. Pangborn 

Cavanaugh and Pangborn meet tonight as teams going in opposite directions. Pangborn jumped from fifth to second this week in the power poll. Their opponent finds themselves in the cellar with an 0-2 record. 
Pangborn has been working on both sides of the ball, at­tempting to continue their win­ning ways. Last week the Phoxes narrowly defeated Lyons 13-12. They hope to form some more continuity af­ter the close victory. 
"We have been working on getting things back together on offense," said freshman Kelly Brady. "The defense has been focusing on the pass." 
Cavanaugh will make some adjustments in their bid to de­feat Pangborn. 
"We are doing a few new things with the offense," said captain Erin Williams. 
Changes include Kathryn McCoyd replacing Williams at quarterback. Williams will move to wide receiver. 
• CollEGE Fmrrsru.t 

Nebraska's Frazier hospitalized again 
Last Sunday's 20-point defeat at the hands of Breen-Phillips exhibited Cavanaugh's week­nesses on defense. The defen­sive play against Pangborn aims to improve. Williams is confident that Pangborn's of­fense will see much better de­fensive play. 
"Our defense will be tough," she said. 
Pangborn has its own prob­lems in the contest against Cavanaugh. The offense will be depleted since some of the team members will miss the game. Fewer substitutes will force much of the offensive squad to play the whole game. 
Cavanaugh continues to re­main upbeat for the game against Pangborn despite the odds. 1 
"We are pretty optimistic," said Williams. 
-LARRY VOIGT 


ByTOMVINT 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
Nebraska quarterback Tommie Frazier, a contender for the Heisman Trophy before being sidelined with a blood clot, was hospitalized Tuesday after the clot formed again in his leg. 
"Right now they are trying to dissolve the clot," coach Tom Osborne said after practice. "He is in good spirits, but his season is in question right 
now.;, 
"It's very weird," said George Sullivan, a Nebraska trainer for 42 years. "I've been here a cou­ple of years and I've never seen anything like this happen before. It's different because it 
doesn't appear to be a trau­matic thing. We don't know if it is a genetic thing or a disease process. For a healthy young man to have this type of thing develop really has us stumped." 
Frazier spent four days in the hospital last month while a clot 

I 
! 
! f I I l 
t I I 
~ 
near his right knee was dis­solved by enzymes and blood­thinners. The school's medical staff said surgery is being con­sidered. 
The new clot was discovered when Frazier underwent tests at Bryan Memorial Hospital on Tuesday. Nebraska's sports in­formation office said he was in intensive care and not accept­ing visitors or phone calls. 
Sullivan said it was normal procedure for someone receiv­ing heavy doses of blood thin­ners to dissolve a clot to be placed in intensive care. 
"We are concerned that (the clot) has re-formed without any trauma or reason to re-form," Osborne said. "It's been an un­usual situation. We will treat him very conservatively. I'm 
Happy Birthday Amy Santangelo. 
You have 111ade yourfanlily very proud ofyou. 
Lots oflove, Mom. Dad, Charley & Muffie 
sure he won't play any time soon and there's a reasonable chance he won't play again this year." 
Team medical staff said the new clot was discovered near the area of the first. A smaller clot, believed to be superficial in the earlier testing, also will be viewed as a possible cause of the new clot. 



Wednesday, October 5, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 

BILL WATTERSON 
l't>, S\-\t:D GOntl'\ \l'S£.1) it> 1\, 9J ~E r\G\JR'C.O S~E S\40\ll\) 
"Well, it came from your division, Sanders, and as you can see, it's covered with honey and molasses! ... You know what that makes this, Sanders?" 

.. 

DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 

50 Shocking word 53 The least concern 54 Experimental canine? 57 Adjective for an 
antique store 58 TV exec Spelling 59 Hors d'oeuvre 
spread 60 Former empire 61 Acknowledge 62 Like certain 
trays 
DOWN 
1 "Three Coins in the Fountain" lyricist 
2Chills 3 Third piece of 
three 4 "A mouse!" 5 Richard 
Sheridan play, 

30 "The Many-of Dobie Gillis" 31 Watkins--, N.Y. 32 Gridiron period 36Candid 37 First-aid contrivance 38 Stage curtain 39 Encircle 40 Way with words 41 Sneak preview 42 Posh 44 Like some hair 
45Words preceding film credits 
47 Kingsley et al. 48 Warned with a horn 49 South of France 



ACROSS 
1 Speleology topic 
5 Plane egresses 10 Pedestal topper 14 C.I.A. profiler 
Philip 15 Paradigm 16 Savvy about 17 Canine 
laryngitis? 19 Mutant heroes of modern 
comics 20 Not gross 21 Gain 22 Fanciful 24 Doubtful story 25 Fancies up 26 Record lists 29 Uses a 
cheat-sheet 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
with "The" 6 Be gaga over 
24 Stylish canine? 41 Dither 49Vidal's
7Chow­
Breckinridge25 "-You Glad 43 Miniaturea Lobbying You're You?" 44 Failing 50"Gil-" acronym (1946 hit) business's woe 51 Courtroom9 Winter sport 26 Stop (up) 45 Trunk items ritual 10 Canine 27 Snake dancers 46 Gangsters 52 Comply with underwear? 

28 Maintain 47 Plains critter 55 Contemptuous
11 Frighten to the core 29 Succeed, 48 Commandment 
cry informally word 56 Bath, for one 12 Cut flowers 31 Endocrine, e.g. 
13 "West Side Story" beau 33 Loads 
Get answers to any three clues
34 Juice flavor 18 Lady Gregory 

by touch-tone phone: 1~900-420­
cohort 35 Rations 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
23 Deprive (of) 37 Not get hit? 
Recycle 
The Observer 
----~----------------~--~--~ 
SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, October 5, 1994 

• MEN'S BASKETBAll. 

... 
With open arms 
•John Macleod has found his first real recruiting success. 
MacLeod welcomes new recruits 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 

John MacLeod's tireless recruting trips, once futile, have become as fruitful as any in college basketball. 
He developed a reputation as a diligent pursuer of prospects in his first three seasons as caretaker of the Notre Dame men's basketball program. 
But he doesn't just search for stars anymore. 
Now, with an assist to the Big East Conference, he signs them. 
A quartet of coveted high school prospects have verbal-
Gary Bell 6-5 forward, Joliet, Ill. 
Considered one of the best players in Illinois, the wide-body has been compared to Charles Barkley. 
Doug Gottlieb 6-1 point guard, Orange, Calif. 
Some say he's the best point guard on the west coast. 
Antoni Wyche 6-5 guard, Schenectady, NY 
His high school coach called him "my Scottie Pippen." He was refer­ring to his play, not his attitude. 
Phil Hickey 6-11 center, Wellsboro, Pa. 
Size the Irish haven't had in years. Finally, a player who actually needs to Jose weight. 
ly committed to Notre Dame for the 1995-96 season, a coup for MacLeod which will be made official during the early signing period begin­ning November 9. 
Gary Bell, a 6-5 forward 

Midnight Madness 
When the clock strikes 12 next Friday night, it will be the birth not only of a new day, but of a new season for the Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team. 
NCAA rules allow college teams to assemble for the first time on October 15. 
Notre Dame can't afford to waste a minute. 
And they're inviting the world to watch their initial workout. 
Midnight Madness is a tra­dition at many basketball­crazy schools, attracting thousands of fans starving for their first taste of hoops. 
It never really caught on at Notre Dame, where bas­ketball has never been more than football's underachiev­ing little brother. 
Not so long ago, Midnight Madness referred to coach John MacLeod's nocturnal fury when watching film of his team's play. 
Now it's a full-fleged 

from Joliet, Ill., Doug Gottlieb, a 6-1 point guard from Orange, Calif.. 6-5 shooting guard Antoni Wyche of Schenectady, N.Y. and 6­11, 290-pound center Phil Hickey of Wellsboro, Pa. each pleged allegiance to the Irish 
•'1 recent weeks. 

\nd each shunned some bat·ketball powerhouses in the 1-~ocess. 
Gottlieb's parents have sea­son tickets at UClA, for God's sake. 
But the Bruins and other hallowed hoops houses like Syracuse and Kansas received the snub that Notre Dame had become so accus­tomed to. 
Wyche turned down a trio of Big East schools-Boston College, Miami and Syracuse-to play ball in South Bend. 
see RECRUITS I page 10 
Irish break out tradition as program rebuilds 
basketball event, the inaugu­ration of Notre Dame's last season as an independent. 
The announcement last summer that Notre Dame would join the Big East Conference beginning in the 1995-96 season sparked re­newed interest in the men's basketball program. 
Just how much interest will begin to be revealed late next Friday night. 
• fOOTBA!.l 

Irish injuries demand leadership changes 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Senior leadership, experience, and ability to protect the ball. 
These are three of the many qualities that Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz feels are vital to his team's success. 
Lee Becton and Ray Zellars personify these attributes. Unfortunately for the Irish, the only thing that they'll be doing against Boston College will be from the sidelines. 
"I don't believe that Lee Becton or Ray Zellars will be able to play," Holtz announced. "Lee thought he could practice (on Monday), but you could see he was greatly handicapped. It may be a week or two before he is ready and Ray wasn't even out on the field." 
If that turns out to be true, the Irish will be entering perhaps their most raucous stadium, Alumni Stadium, with a starting backfield-Ron Powlus, Randy Kinder and Marc Edwards­that has started a combined total of 9 games. 
• MEN's SocceR 

Irish look for scoring punch 
ByJARED PATZKE Sports Wrirer 

The Notre Dame men's soccer players are packing their bags in preparation for their trip to Illinois where they play Loyola tonight at 6:30 p.m. 
Among things the Irish hope to leave in South Bend is their recent inability to score. They have been held scoreless in two straight games, and, as a result of the drought, carry a two­game losing streak on their shoulders. a heavy load not many people would have pre­dicted the Irish would be lug­ging about at this point in the season. 
After beginning the season ranked 16th in the nation, many believed that this team could be the best to come from Notre Dame in quite some time, if not ever. Yet, after opening the season with five wins and five losses, skeptics have come to believe that perhaps this 1994 team was overrated. 
But three of the five losses came to nationally ranked 
"Going into a hostile environ­ment, you'd like to have a little bit more senior leadership, named from those people hold­ing the ball," Holtz said. 
However, Holtz has been pleased with the overall leader­ship of the rest of his senior class, particularity on the de­fensive side of the ball. 
"I think some of our seniors have been playing very, very well," Holtz said, naming Oliver Gibson, Brian Hamilton. and Justin Goheen, among others. "Those seniors have really been there each and every day and have provided great leadership for our football team thus far." 
In addressing the Boston College game a bit more specif­ically, Holtz surprisingly, or maybe not so surprisingly if you consider the source, avoided the topic of revenge as a moti­vating factor. 
"Our football team will treat it like any other game," the Irish coach said. "We will just go up there and try to get ready to play as well as we can and just see what happens." 

Jason Fox and the Irish have been shut out two straight games. teams and perennial power­houses Penn State, Wake Forest, and Indiana. UOnex­pected losses to Midwestern Conference foes Northern Illinois and Wisconsin at Milwaukee have given the cyn­ics ammunition to attack with. 
The game against Loyola is another Midwestern Conference match-up. Along with breaking their current los­ing streak and ending their scoring affiictions, the Irish are in search of their first victory away from home. Four of their five defeats have come on the 
see SOCCER I page 10 


of note...
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Previews of tonight's games include 
See Friday's Sports Extra for 
Badin vs. Lyons 
Notre Dame vs. Boston College 
in a big division match-up. 
football details. 
See page 14 


