---~l 


annual University Libraries book sale will continue today until 5 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library concourse. \Haorrlt)acl<s are $2 and paperbacks are $1. 
CMH winner tells noble tale 
By AMY SCHMIDT fatal experiences in Vietnam. Benavidez managed to admin­News Writer According to Benavidez, who ister first aid to the survivors volunteered to be part of a 12-and carry 17 soldiers to the Stressing the importance of man special forces rescue mis­rescue helicopter, he said. 
military service, retired Army sion in May of 1968, when his Upon returning to a field hos-
Master Sgt. Roy P. Benavidez, a squad arrived at a rendezvous pital, doctors believed 
Congressional Medal of Honor point, they found all the rrien in Benavidez to be dead. 
winner, spoke yesterday to Air the party they were to rescue He had 37 wounds, including Force ROTC members. either dead or seriously wound­bayonet lacerations sustained Benavidez, a green beret, ed. from hand-to-hand combat. A received the highest possible faint cough saved Benavidez, honor bestowed upon a person Despite being shot several alerting the doctors that he was 
in the military after his nearly times by enemy sol~iers, still alive. 
"You have never truly lived 
until you have almost died," he 
said. 
Although this weak cough spared his life, Benavidez lost so much blood that he was unable to move. He spent more than a year in hospitals recov­ering from the severe wounds he sustained. 
After telling his story, Benavidez challenged the ROTC members to live their lives according to three very important ideas: faith, determi­nation, and attitude. 
"The one thing I learned in combat is that winners never quit, and quitters never win," he said. "What are you?" 
Although retired from the military, Benavidez now edu­cates high school and college students about the importance of dedicating one's life to some­thing that will make a differ­ence, instead of falling into the trap of drugs and gang mem­bership. He said that even now, he lives his life by the motto "Duty, Honor, and Country." 

(PRI), which has won every presidential election for the past 65 years. 
Critics complained his free­market economic policies were too close to those of the Salinas administration, which so far have brought little improve­ment to Mexico's poor. Colosio had stressed the social pro­grams and environmental pro­tection he would implement. 
Colosio had just finished speaking to approximately 3,000 people in a canyon area in Colonia Lorna Taurinas, near Tijuana's international airport, when shots rang out. 
Gone but not forgotten: SMC remembers Noel 
He was bleeding profusely from the head when he was put into a campaign car and rushed to the hospital, witnesses said. 
Saenz said one bullet went in and out of Colosio's head, but he had no details of the second bullet that struck his chest. 
The crowd jumped on the as­sailant, who appeared to be in his mid-20s, and beat him. 
"His shirt was ripped off," said Gregory Gross, a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tri­bune who was following Colosio on the campaign swing. "There 
see MEXICO/page 9 
ByAMANDACOVARRUB~S 
Associated Press 
TIJUANA 
The man expected to become Mexico's next president, Luis Donaldo Colosio, was shot twice and seriously wounded Wednesday during a campaign appearance in the border city of Tijuana. 
Colosio, the candidate of Mex­ico's governing party, was rushed to Tijuana General Hospital with gunshot wounds to the head and chest. 
"His health is extremely deli­cate," said Libano Saenz, spokesman for the Institutional Revolutionary Party. 
In Mexico City, Salinas went on national radio and lamented the attack as an "infamous act,.. adding he had sent his own doctor and a specialist to Tijuana. 
"This is an attempt against a noble human being, a good man who sought only to serve his country," Salinas said in a brief message. He said he had ordered his attorney general to Tijuana to head the investiga­tion. 
Mexican TV reported two people were involved in the 
shooting and that both were ar­rested. Their identities were not immediately known. 
The assassination attempt was sure to only add to the na­tion's sense of crisis following an armed New Year's uprising by Indian peasants in the south. The rebels were seeking im­proved living conditions and re­forms to clean up Mexico's fraud-ridden electoral system. 
Colosio, 44, has been under attack political opponents since President Carlos Salinas de Gortari named him Nov. 28 as standard-bearer for the Institu­tional Revolutionary Party 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
News Writer 
A dedicated and devoted pro­fessor and individual who of­fered the wisdom of experience to her students is how col­leagues and friends will re­member Elisabeth Noel, En­glish professor. 
Noel, 67, died Tuesday after­noon after a battle with breast and lung cancer. 
"She was one of the main­stays in the department," Theodore Billy, English de­partment chair said of the woman, who taught at Saint Mary's since 1960. 
Her friends and colleagues speak of her dedication to edu­cation and the College as the characteristic they will most remember about her. 
"Saint Mary's was really her life. She devoted her whole life to her occupation and she will be greatly missed," Billy said. "She was tough-minded and warm-hearted. She kept the standard for the department as educators." 
Noel's dedication to education infiltrated every aspect of her life, according to Max Westler, associate professor of English: 
"She loved literature, she tried to walk it like she talked it. Many times she became like a character out of one of her novels," Westler said. "Elisabeth Noel represented the liberal arts and represented them strongly...she carried this through to her teaching today." 
Even in failing health, she still remained committed to her teaching and Saint Mary's, ac­cording to Westler. 
"Even when she was in the hospital this last time, she got up several times headed to the English department-she want­ed to teach," Westler said. 
Noel will be remembered 
within the department for her knowledge, personality and dedication, according to Asso­ciate Professor of English Ros­alind Clark. 
"She was a person of great integrity, great dignity and we loved her very much," Clark said. "We respected her and her opinions." 
Noel's sister, Carol Zanke, said she will remember her sis­ttJr for her life accom­plishments. 
"Saint Mary's was a big part of her life," Zanke said. 
Noel was always dedicated to education, but she did not pur­sue her passion for literature until graduate school. As an undergraduate at Seton Hill College, Noel received a bache­lor of science in biology. She began graduate work in zoolo­gy at Yale University before she entered the University of Illinois where she earned her masters and doctorate in English literature. 
She taught English at Aqua­nias College in Michigan from 1957 to 1960 before coming to Saint Mary's. 
While at the College, Noel served as the chair of the En­glish department from 196 7 to 1969 and from 1979 to 1981. 
In 1967, Noel received the Spes Unica Award for teaching. 
"Lis was the embodiment of a teacher, she was tough, but fair and her students really loved her," Vice President and Dean of Faculty Dorthey Feigl said. 
In addition to her literature, her passions were travel and music. She visited Rome and England several times through­out her life and loved the opera. 
Visitation services will be held Thursday from 4 p.m. to 8 
p.m. in Stapelton Lounge in Le Mans Hall. A prayer service will be held in Stapelton at 7 p.m, 

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, March 24, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN NATION AT AGLANCE 
The law still stands on St. 
Paddy's Day 
Getting accepted at Notre Dame is a big deal. Everyone knows that you are among the best and brightest once that accep­tance letter arrives. 
With such an abundance of intelligence on campus,

is it so difficult to figure ____ out that attending an ille-Liz Foran gal activity that is "tradi-•_· N Ed" 
t. l" ld b bl ruslstant ews ltor
10na woo pro a y not be really smart? 
The Viewpoint page has run several letters concerning the issue over the past few days. Students complaining about treatment by police and the fact that the bash was busted to begin with. ,. 
First of all, the party was illegal. Against the law. How can police intervention with a viola­tion of the law be considered a malfunction o law enforcement? 
Many people were in the wrong place at the wrong time. They were arrested because, believe it or not, being in the wrong place at the wrong time can also be illegal! Visiting a com­mon nuisance is a Class A misdemeanor punish­able by a fme along with court costs. 
Different divisions of a police department are responsible for different illegal activities. The SUDS division is responsible for Stopping Underage Drinking and Sales. They are not responsible for gangs and drugs and violent crimes, other departmental divisions are. The uniform division patrols and is largely responsi­ble for crime prevention and taking reports o crimes that have already occurred. Drug and gang task forces handle these concerns respec­tively. How could the SUDS division not be doing their jobs when they were doing precisely what the division's name states? 
I have heard many students question why police were around to bust the big Lafayette bash, but aren't around when the apartments are burglarized. First of all, police knew about the party weeks in advance and had plenty o time to prepare. Next time you know the exact date, time and location of when you're going to get ripped off, just call your local department and they will be more than happy to provide police intervention. 
Also present here again is a difference of divi­sions. The SUDS division has nothing to do with patrolling your neighborhood. The uniform, or patrol, division would be the place to lodge a complaint if you feel your area is under­patrolled. 
Finally, why in the world should police notify anyone in advance of a bust?! Would you like the Drug Task Force to notify the local drug dealer, telling him that they know when and where he will be dealing? Since alcohol is also a drug, is this really so different? 
Did anyone bother to ask the area residents o Lafayette how they felt about the St. Patrick's day festivities, or the recent publicity? No, we have been too busy feeling sorry for ourselves. 
Is it any wonder that police or South Bend residents may fmd some ND students to be snot­nosed brats, when they blatantly commit illegal acts and then lash out in anger without under­standing all the facts? 
The SUDS officers will not see the money from the tickets they issued, but they might feel satis­faction at enforcing the law and keeping the peace, which does not include huge keg parties at public apartment complexes. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Aeroflot black box found after crash of Russian plane 
The dead included 12 crew members Rescuers searching through deep 
and 63 passengers -25 of them for­snow in remote Siberian mountains 
eigners, the Ministry for Emergency found the black box Wednesday from 
Situations said. Some of the foreigners an Aeroflot jet crash that authorities 
were from the United States, Canada, said killed all 75 people aboard. 
Britain, Australia and China. The crash near the Mongolian border 
A spokesman at the U.S. Embassy was the second of a jetliner this year in 
said no information was available on Russia. Since the Soviet collapse, the one American victim. Russian skies have become increasingly Area residents said they saw the dangerous. plane falling and heard an explosion 
Officials were not excluding possible when it hit the ground, said Alexander sabotage. Preliminary data did not indi­Khutornoy, head of the cate technical malfunction, Yuri Mezhdurechensk Civil Defense Vorobyov, deputy minister for emer-Department. Sixty rescue workers forced their
gency situations, told the Interfax news ~-~fm~~~~s agency. way through 10-foot snowbanks, even­
Russian airplanes are renowned for tually building a road to allow sleds to being overcrowded and poorly main­reach the plane. tained. But unlike the crash in January Television footage showed the jet's of a Russian-made, Tu-154 airliner charred fuselage, lodged in branches, near Irkutsk, which killed 124 people, still smoking and partly in flames. The the A-310 Airbus that went down early plane carved an 90-yard swath Wednesday was made by the European through the forest and scattered debris 
Airbus consortium and maintained by a French company, Veritas, lnterfax reported. 
The airliner, en route from Moscow to Hong Kong, dis­appeared from radar screens and plunged into a forest in the Altai Mountains near Mezhdurechensk, 2,000 miles east of Moscow. 
U.S. assessment: Yeltsin healthy 
WASHINGTON 
U.S. officials noticed that Boris Yeltsin's "gait was slow and a little bit stifr' recently, but he appears to be in good health, Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott said Wednesday. Talbott, at a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on Russia, said Yeltsin's slowness "can almost certainly be explained by the fact that he has suffered from chronic back pain for a long time." Yeltsin, vacationing at a Black Sea resort, met with Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin on Tuesday, and the two 
'were seen on state TV. Chernomyrdin said speculation about Yeltsin's health was "insulting." Yeltsin has made few public appearances in Moscow in recent months, prompting coup rumors and questions about his health. He is scheduled to return to Moscow later this week. "We obviously follow reports on President Yeltsin's health very carefully," Talbott said. The Russian leader "seemed to be in very good shape, indeed," during a summit with President Clinton in January, he said. 
Abortion clinic doctor testifies 
WICHITA 
Dr. George Tiller thought he would see anti-abortion literature when a woman approached him outside his abortion clinic last August. Instead, he felt gunfire. "I heard ·some shots. And then my left arm hurt. And then my right arm hurt," he testified Wednesday. But Tiller, who returned to work the day after being shot, said he could not identify the woman. Tiller's description of the shooting came in the second day of testimony in the trial of Rachelle "Shelley" Shannon. The anti-abortion activist is charged on one count of attempted first-degree murder in Tiller's wounding and two counts of aggravated assault for allegedly pointing a gun at two of his employ­ees outside the Women's Health Care Services clinic. Shannon has said in newspaper interviews that she shot Tiller, who was the target of mass demonstrations in 1991 by Operation Rescue. Her attorney, E. Jay Greeno, has said he plans to put Shannon on the stand to testify about her religious beliefs, how she became active in the anti-abortion movement and her exposure to people who say violence is justified in the fight against abortion. 
AP across more than one mile, the ITAR­Tass news agency said. Last year, 11 air ·Crashes in Russia killed 221 people, ITAR-Tass said. 
Last month, a government panel said that air safety in the country is three to four times worse than in Western countries. 
Kentucky may forbid assisted suicide 
FRANKFORT, Ky. 
The General Assembly is almost finished with its pre­emptive strike against doctors assisting suicides in Kentucky. The Senate Judiciary Committee on Wednesday approved a "Kevorkian bill" for Kentucky that would make it a felony to knowingly assist in a sui­cide. Rep. Bob Heleringer, R-Louisville, said Kentucky needs his bill to keep doctors like Michigan's Jack Kevorkian from practicing in the state. The retired sub­urban Detroit pathologist has assisted or been present in at least 20 deaths. Michigan passed a similar anti-suicide bill in 1993 that Kevorkian has ignored. Heleringer's bill, which was approved with no amendments and little debate, exempts pharmacists or doctors who prescribe the drugs that a person might take to kill himself. The committee voted unanimously to send the bill on for con­sideration by the full Senate. It has already passed the House. 
Buttafuoco free after 129 days in jail 
MASSAPEQUA 
He might go Hollywood. He could headline in Atlantic City or Las Vegas. He already commands $100,000 for an exclusive interview -and he just walked out of jail Wednesday. Joey Buttafuoco stepped out of his cell and back into the spotlight, secure in the knowledge his twist­ed celebrity grew during 129 days behind bars for the statutory rape of an underage Amy Fisher. ''I'm done," the public-enemy-turned-private-citizen said outside the Nassau County Jail, flashing two thumbs up for photogra­phers. "Everything is cool. I did what I had to do to end it, and now I'm going home." Buttafuoco -after a pit stop at his lawyer's office and a Long Island jeweler to buy his wife a gift -did just that. He avoided reporters by sprinting through a neighbor's backyard, and the blinds were drawn once he slipped inside. A tree in his suburban front yard, just a short distance from the porch where Fisher shot Mary Jo Buttafuoco just 22 months ago, held 129 yellow ribbons. In the driveway was his speedboat "Double Trouble" -the floating love nest where he allegedly wooed Fisher. 
NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather~~~> forecast for noon, Thursday, March 24. 
Thursday, March 24 Accu-Weather"' forecasl for daylime conditions and high lemperatures 
Lines separate high temperalure zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
....--r _._._ .....ar 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
0199-4 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Atlanta 74 50 Denver 59 42 New Orleans 84 64 Baltimore 80 39 Hartford 50 32 New York 71 46 Boston 67 39 Houston 73 68 Philadelphia 77 39 Chicago 74 49 Los Angeles 68 50 Phoenix 74 57 Colombus 75 37 Miami 87 71 San Francisco 70 65 Dallas 85 64 Minneapolis 39 32 Washington, D.C. 47 45 
Thursday, March 24, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Military jets crash; 15 killed Academics keep faith 
By EMERY P. DALESIO 
Associated Press 
POPE AIR FORCE BASE, N.C. 
An Air Force F-16 collided in the air with a C-130 cargo plane and crashed Wednesday, spewing flaming debris that ignited a huge transport plane. Fifteen people were killed and 82 injured. 
The fatalities were either on the ground or in the C-141 transport plane that was preparing for paratrooper training, said Gene Sexton, deputy chief of public affairs at nearby Fort Bragg. 
The two pilots aboard the F­16 ejected successfully and the C-130 landed safely with five · crew members aboard, said Air Force Brig. Gen. Bobby Floyd. 
• 
All seven crew members were reported in good condition. 
After the pilots ejected, the F­16 exploded and hit the ground, sending engines and sheared metal flying, Floyd said. The fighter plane skidded past parked transport planes and into a staging area where para­troopers were preparing for exercises. 
Fifteen people were killed and 82 injured in the crash, said Maj. Jim Hinnant, an Army spokesman at Fort Bragg. Twenty of the injured were treated and released and the rest remained hospitalized Wednesday. 
The F-16 and the C-130 were both practicing landing when they collided, Floyd said. The C­130 had completed its training exercise with paratroopers and was returning to Pope nearly empty. 
"For some unknown reason, they both appe~red at the same time at the same place," Floyd said. 
"Obviously, there was a fail­ure to communicate. Both pilots thought they were cleared to lan'd." 
As the F -16 skidded on the tarmac, part of the debris hit the C-141's fuel tanks, igniting a blaze that took firefighters 30 minutes to extinguish. 
The fighter then skidded off the runway and into an area where Army troops from the 82nd Airborne, the 18th Avia­tion Brigade and other Fort Bragg units were preparing for jumping exercises. 
0 
by juggling their ethics 
By MEGAN THOMAS 
News Writer 
Any profession, including a career in the academic field, poses potential hazards to one's faith; however, it is possible to successfully achieve an inte­grated relationship between faith and knowledge, according to Kenneth Sayre, Notre Dame philosophy professor. 
Sayre lectured upon "Faith and Professional Life: Hazards and Opportunities," part of the Faculty Upper Room Series Dinner Discussion sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns. 
Sayre began his discussion by pointing out a hazard to Christian faith which occurs almost universally. 
"It is a common tendency for one to emphasize the impor­tance of his own purposes and life goals. To plan one's life around these goals is an act of reason," Sayre said. "One may ask, how can the use of reason, a God-given gift, be against His wishes? Humans should not forget the lesson of Adam and Eve's expulsion from Eden, and we must utilize our ability to distinguish good from evil." 
Hazards to Christian faith exist in many professional fields, but Sayre focused upon the pitfalls encountered in the academic profession. 
One hazard is striving for the attainment of prestige and sta­tus within one's discipline. Sayre stated that he accepted a position with Notre Dame's phi­losophy department because he believed, due to the university's Catholic character, that Notre Dame professors would not measure the value of their suc­cess according to the extent of their visibility and prestige. 
"What is wrong with wishing to gain status within one's field?," Sayre asked. "Well, the that the desire to gain visibility causes damage to one's faith." 
Another hazard encountered by professors is their re­quirement to pass judgment over students and colleagues. 
Sayre said grading students is an expected part of the job. However, problems arise when it becomes necessary to decide which faculty members will re­ceive tenure. 
Measuring a colleague's per­formance could potentially inflict harm upon another in­dividual due to his own sense of self-preservation. It is difficult to make judgments concerning the value of others' work, and according to Sayre, this is forc­ing junior colleagues to place emphasis upon their own aspi­rations. 
"Fortunate is the academic not burdened by harsh judg­ments in regards to his/her col­leagues," he said. 
The career of a scholar is not characterized solely by its haz­ards, there are several oppor­tunities as well, Sayre said. 
"Some may perceive ac­complishment in one's field as the achievement of status and prestige, but others teach be­cause they are committed to a life of learning," he said. "The rewards need not be measur­able quantities, but rather the knowledge that one has made an impact upon one's stu­dents." 
Another dilemma discussed was that of teaching versus re­search. 
"Christian faith is uncomfort­able with the amount of specialization existent in schol­arship, due to the amount time spent researching one particu­lar subject," Sayre said. "A way to avoid this hazard is through researching areas separate from one's own particular field of inquiry." 
The Observer 
sports department is seeking individuals for the following positions: 
Copy Editors Staff Writers 
Any interested parties contact George Dohrmann at 631-4543 or come to the Observer Office 3rd floor LaFortune. 
MUSIC 
NoTRE DAME 
GLEE CLUB 
SUNDAY MARCH 27 ~ 1994 8PM 
BASILICA 
OF THE 
SACRED 
HEART 
F R E E ADMISSION 
-~~ ~-~----~-------------~~~--------~­
page4 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS Thursday, March 24, 1994 

Clinton's health plan falls ill 
By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Republicans on a House Ways and Means panel today thumbed their noses at Presi­
dent Clinton's health reform plan, voting against reviv­ing the 1,342­page proposal in its original form. 
The seven Democrats on 

the health Bill Clinton subcommittee sat out the vote, voting "pre­sent" after their four GOP col­leagues cast their largely sym­bolic "no" votes. 
The panel is attempting to finish work tonight on a compromise Democratic reform plan crafted by its chairman, Rep. Pete Stark, D-Calif., to expand Medicare and guaran­tee health insurance for all Americans by 1997. 
Stark's plan is a modified ver­sion of the Clinton bill, with an employer mandate and controls on the growth of private health spending, but shorn of the pres­ident's huge, mandatory insur­ance purchasing alliances. 
Rep. Bill Thomas, R-Calif., said he offered the original Clinton plan as a substitute for Stark's proposal because he knew none of the Democrats would do it. 
"You folks don't want to touch it with a 10-foot pole," he said Tuesday night. 
Democrats accused the mi­nority of playing games and try­ing to embarrass them and the White House. 
Rep. Benjamin Cardin, D-Md., said the Stark plan was "an evolution" from the Clinton blueprint. "We have improved upon it." 
"My guess is there'll be more sprouts and a lot of cross-polli­nation" before Congress comes up with a final reform plan, said Rep. Sander Levin, D-Mich. 
But Rep. Fred Grandy, R­Iowa, said it was time to bring out the "herbicides" and kill off Clinton's original proposal. 
"I did it for the American people," said Thomas, explain­ing his motivation. "The presi­dent's plan was a beginning.... The vote today is to certify the end of the beginning." Thomas charged that Stark's plan was worse than Clinton's in many ways. 
The panel, on 7-4 party-line votes, rejected two Republican alternative health proposals Tuesday. 
It was also expected to defeat proposals to advance a biparti­san managed competition health reform bill, a Demo­cratic plan to create a Cana­dian-style single-payer system and another GOP alternative, before casting its final-votes tonight on Stark's plan. 
Stark, who lacked the six Democratic votes he needed to get his plan through with a 0.8 percent payroll tax, said there might be a substitute proposal to alter its taxes and benefits. The panel voted Tuesday to raise cigarette taxes by $1.25 a pack to help pay for reforms. 
Rep. Mike Andrews, D-Texas, an advocate of managed com­petition and opponent of em­ployer mandates, said early on he would vote against Stark's plan, and Levin said Tuesday he could not vote for it with the 
0.8 percent payroll tax in it. Levin said one possibility was that the subcommittee could recommend the rest of the bill to the full Ways and Means Committee without the revenue provisions. 
Whitewater has drowned Clinton's campaign goals 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
With stunning swiftness, the Whitewater affair has drowned out President Clinton's message about jobs and health care. It's demoralized his staff and stolen 
NEWS ANALYSIS 
time from other White House work. And to Clinton's dismay, it's not about to go away. 
The worry now at the White House is that Whitewater could change Americans' perception of Clinton as an active, can-do president, casting him instead as a leader preoccupied with nagging troubles. 
"People are frustrated by this," said pollster Andrew Ko­hut of the Times Mirror Center for the People and the Press. 
"This isn't what they expect­ed when they elected him or when they began to have high expectations about his agen­da." Most polls show Clinton's personal negative ratings going up and his approval ratings going down. 
The public has always had suspicions about Clinton's character, Kohut said, and, "This won't make it any bet­ter." 
Clinton's own assessment is that while he's taken a lot o hits, Whitewater hasn't killed his legislative program. 
"I don't think it's stalled us in the Congress. It may have stalled us in the country. Which is, of course, one of the things it's designed to do. The ene­mies of health care reform or the people who don't want us to do anything are obviously trying to beat it to death," the president says. 
White House officials acknowledge they mishandled Whitewater and underestimat­ed the impact as questions about the financial investment spiraled out of control. There's a general resignation that it will be around for the foreseec able future and that the White House has to live with it. 
"I hear so many news organizations are out working on so many stories in Arkansas , I don't think we know where this story is necessarily going on Whitewater," said David Gergen, counselor to the presi­dent. 
Education bill stalled in Senate 
By CAROLE FELDMAN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
With $105 million at stake, the House approved compro­mise legislation Wednesday that would create voluntary standards for what children should know and give states and local school districts money to help achieve the goals. 

A last-minute dispute over school prayer was overcome in the House, but Senate Republi­cans, led by Sen. Jesse Helms, said they would filibuster the bill until they got prayer lan­guage more to their liking. 
As a delaying tactic, Helms, R-N.C., demanded that the 231­page Goals 2000 bill be read 
• 
aloud-a seven-hour task that began shortly before 7 p.m. 
The Goals 2000 bill autho­rizes $64 7 million for this year, including $400 million in grants to states and local school agen­cies to develop and implement plans for education reform and writes into law the education goals agreed to in 1989 by the nation's governors. 
MIKE RIDLEY'S 
Coming to 
~@~rn3\foSC) 
Saturday, March 26 

orr1sse 


(J)TJl 
(B 
Stepan Center 7:30p.m. 


2 U.S. Dollars perperson 
Proceeds to benefit St. Hedwig's Outreach 
9 studentfilms, gaudy awards, plastic seats, crazy stuff, and more... 

Thursday, March 24, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS pageS 
Lewis hunts dirty politics 
By CHRIS WILSON News Writer 
"Our elected officials in Washington today are more interested in themselves than the public interests and good," said Charles Lewis, executive director of the Center for Public Integrity in Washington, D.C. Lewis spoke yesterday in De­Bartolo on "Washington's Mer­cenary Culture." 
The Center for Public In­tegrity was founded by Lewis in 1989 to fulfill the government watchdog role Lewis feels has been abandoned by journalists today. 
The center's objective is to monitor public officials and in­sure they are serving the public interests and behaving ethi­cally. It is a bipartisan group which seeks responsible behav­ior from members of both par­ties. 
The center researches issues where the involved government officials have conflicting inter­ests which may affect their poli­cy decisions. 
"Mercenary Culture" which The center then issues a
According to Lewis, one of the Lewis discussed. study of their findings. These most pervasive problems is that "Today there are more lobby-reports detail any conflictinggovernment officials' policies ing groups and more money in interests or improprieties are often influenced by outside Washington than ever before, discovered. 

P R I:'\ C I P L E S of S 0 L' :\ D RETIRE,\\ E :'\ T I:'\\' EST IN G 
~t)¢> 
/"0 .)0 
~-··-27r 
IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START SAVING FORRETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT. 
C
an't afford to save for retirement? Even ifyou're not counting the years to The truth is, you can't afford not to. retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF Not when you realize that your retirement to help you build the future you deserve­can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want with flexible retirement and tax-deferred to live at least as comfortably then as you annuity plans, a diverse portfolio ofinvest­do now. And that takes planning. ment choices, and a record ofpersonal 
By starting to save now, you can take service that spans 75 years. advantage of tax-deferral and give your Over a million people in education and money time to compound and grow. research put TIAA-CREF at the top of Consider this: set aside just $wo each their list for retirement planning. Why not month beginning at age 30 and you can join them? accumulate over $172,109* by the time Call today and learn how simple it is you reach age 65. But wait ten years and to build a secure tomorrow when you you'll have to budget $219 each month have time and TIAA-CREF working on to reach the same goal. your side. 
Stllrt plRnni"'J yourfuture. Cllll our EnroUment Hotline 1 800 842-2888. 

75 years ofensuring the future for those who shape it:" 

*Auuming an inttrut rott of 7.00% <rtlltttll to T/AA Rttirtmtnt Annuitiu. Thi.r rott i.r UJtU '"k/y to Jbow tbt powtr anJtffut ofcompounding. Lowtr or bigbtr rotu wou& product vtry dtf/trtnt rtJultJ. CREF ctrtifu:atu art iJi.rtributtd by T/AA-CREF Individual anillnJttiutwnal Strvicu. 
Students and rectors discuss birds and bees 
By AMY SANTANGELO News Writer 
As a part of the "Keeping the Faith" series on sexuality and the Notre Dame student, rec­tors and students gathered last night in the LaFortune ball­room. A panel of four students and two rectors talked about their own experiences of sexu­ality in connection with Notre Dame. 
Dave Devine, a senior from Morrissey, talked about the common myths about sex that many people believe. "There are many myths and misper­ceptions regarding sexuality," he said. 
According to Devine, the more common ones are every­one is having sex, the 'well we've been dating now for a month or two so the next logi­cal step is sex' and that men have an irresistible sex drive that must be satisfied or else they will explode. 
These are just myths and must be viewed in the context in which they are given, said Devine. "People must examine their own sexuality against these misperceptions," he said. 
Mary Vaccaro, Walsh Hall rectress, addressed the para­dox that underlies the topic of sex. People do not like to talk about it but cannot help but to talk about it, she said. 
"We talk about sex all the time in an unintentional way," she said. Even everyday speech dictates attitudes re­garding sexuality. Many slang terms are sexually based, said Vaccaro.. 
Allowing a casual attitude toward the topic of sex can sometimes be harmful as one panelist discovered. Veronica Payan, a sophomore in Breen Phillips Hall, cited that within her inner circle of seven female friends, four have experienced some form of sexual assault at Notre Dame. 
"When is friendly too friend­ly?" asked Payan. 
Fr. Steve Newman, rector of Sorin Hall. expanded upon Payan's discussion by talking about the problem of alcohol and sexuality and how the two do not mix. Men and women at Notre Dame have very "Monday through Friday -nine to five" attitudes about their relation­ships with each other. This goes out the window on the weekends due to the alcohol factor. 
"There is more sexual activity while under the influence than when not," he said. People are also afraid to address their own sexual identity, whatever that may be, because of prejudice and phobias. 
"The ones who are most se­cure in their own sexual iden­tity, the least threatened they are by others," he said. 
THE SHAPE OF THINGS 
YOU'LL 
~~__.;.__ _____.SEE 
-The Fort Wayne Dance Collective presents 
PILOBOLUS 
In Concert for an Exciting Evening ofEntertainment 
Friday, Aprll1and saturday, Aprll2, 8 p.m. Performing Arts Center, 303 E. Main St., Fort Wayne Reserved Tickets $15 for Adults; $10 Children/Seniors 
PRE.CONCERT DESSERT BUFFET, Aprll1, 7 p.m.· • $6 
RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY! CALL (219) 424-6574 Funded in part by hllnd'-w Arts Commluion llh.(i, Cable Access, inc. and a Community P-.rahlp Grant from Arts United of Greeter Fort WayrM Produced in Cooperetion with the Towlam Development Division, !net-Dept. of Commerce 
~~AS YOU WISH'' 
I M P 0 R T s 
JL0-50% OFF~ 
Jewelry, Accessories, & Clothing 
· from Guatemala Nepal Peru Brazil Mexico India 
10 a.m.-5 p.m.LaFortune Rm. 108 
(near telephones) 
Kevin! 
Keep hitting those Love, Mom, Dad, Kirsten and Wynton! 

~---~~-~-~ -~-~~-----~---~----------­
page6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, March 24, 1994 
Nicotine patch helps more than smoky lungs 
By DANIEL HANEY Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Finally, doctors have some­thing good to say about nico­tine. 
A team in Wales has found that nicotine patches appear to relieve the symptoms of ulcera­tive colitis, a chronic inflamma­tion of the colon. 
The disease causes bloody di­arrhea and abdominal pain and is sometimes difficult to treat. Doctors have long noticed that it is rare in cigarette smokers and sometimes starts after peo­ple kick the habit. 
The study was intended to see if nicotine, the chemical that makes cigarettes so addic­tive, could explain the protec­tive effect of smoking and pos­sibly provide a new treatment. 
They found that all symptoms went away in half of the men and women who wore nicotine patches for six weeks. 
However. some had to quit the treatment because of unpleasant side effects. 
"We are very encouraged with a totally new approach to the treatment of this disease," said Dr. John Rhodes, a co­author of the study. 
The study was supported in part by Kabi Pharmacia, which provided the nicotine patches. 
In the United States, 40 to 50 of every 100,000 people have ulcerative colitis. 
The study was conducted principally by Dr. Rupert D. Pullan at University Hospital of Wales in Cardiff and published in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine. 
The study was conducted on 72 people. They were randomly assigned to wear nicotine patches or look-alike dummy patches, and neither they nor their doctors could tell who was getting the real drug. 
While symptoms went away in half of those getting nicotine, they also cleared up in one­quarter of the people in the un­treated comparison group. Just why so many improved is un­clear. However, it could be an example of the so-called place­bo effect, in which the ap­pearance of treatment makes people feel better. 
A skeptically worded editorial in the journal criticized the re­searchers for relying on pa­tients' reports of symptoms rather than providing hard evi­dence that the treatment actu­ally has an effect on the colon. 
The editorial, written by Dr. Stephen B. Hanauer of the Uni­versity of Chicago, raised the possibility that the mood-alter­ing effect of nicotine could have changed people's perceptions of their symptoms. 
Hanauer called the report "stimulating" .but said it "doe!! not provide convincing evi­dence of a true biologic effect of nicotine." 

Restaurant Special: 
Thurs -$4.99 
All you can eat Pizza & other Great Domestic Specials 
2610 Prairie Ave. 
234-4149 
California ashes-on smokers 
By PAUL RAEBURN Associated Press 
Nearly half of Californians have banned smoking in their· homes and 52 percent say sell­ing cigarettes "should not remain a legitimate business in the next century," according to a report on the state's tough anti-smoking campaign. 
"The tide of public opinion appears to have changed dramatically against the tobac­co industry," said John P. Pierce of the University of California, San Diego, the author of a five-year assess­ment of California's $599 mil­lion anti-smoking campaign. 
The report's principal conclu­sion was that the anti-smoking campaign led to a 28 percent drop in smokers in California over five years, three times the decline in the rest of the coun­try. 
That conclusion was reported Monday by The Associated Press, which had obtained a copy of the report before its re­lease. But Pierce was not al­lowed to talk about the report until it was officially released Wednesday. 
In an interview, he high­lighted the report's findings concerning changes in attitudes toward smoking in the home and toward the cigarette indus­try. 
A 1992 survey of 8,224 adults and 1,789 teen-agers found that 48 percent of Californians banned smoking in their homes. Even among smokers, 27 percent banned smoking in the home. 
The Notre Dame Bookstore cordially invites you to attend a reception and reading by VALERIE SAYERS featuring her newest novel "The Distance Between Us". "Ms. Sayers has that rare knack of appearing simply to open up a reality, as if it were so clear before her eyes that she doesn't have to create it so much as invite us in." -New York Times Book Review flfll!Jr§day -March 24th "'~}'""S::SO pm -5:00 pm Greenfield's Cafe (located on campus in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, Notre Dame Avenue) ~~::~::::i:!::::::::;: .·~:::::;~::;:::} .; ... Ms. Sayers will also be available for autographs. (Refreshments will be available)  
Hosted by: The HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus" Ph. (219)-631-5324 Open Monday -Saturday 9 am -5 pm  


COMMITTEE FOR 1994 ARE AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AT 315 LAFORTUNE. APPLICATIONS ARE DUE BY MARCH 30th. 
GET INVOLVED~ 
Thursday, March 24, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page? 
Dank SMC tunnels may get artsy splash of color 
By KATHLEEN CALLAHAN 
News Writer 
A proposal for a mural will hopefully give a little color to the dreariness of Saint Mary's tunnels. 
A plan submitted Tuesday by seniors Laura Siragusa, Jen­nifer Collins and Val Hicks calls for a celebratory mural near Haggar College Center and above the archways of Saint Mary's College. 
The goal of the project is to represent symbols of Saint Mary's in the last 150 years and to carry on that tradition, Siragusa said. 
The proposed mural will tie together various architectural designs from the campus, quotes from Sister Madeleva's poetry, quilting patterns and senior class sections, according to Siragusa. 
The class of 1994 would begin the new tradition by plac­ing hand prints or initials on the wall. 
"I would like the mural to be a reminder of the students who 
frEPPINll Our Wrru FRIENM! 
A Coming-Out Support Group 

Sunday, 27 March 7PM 
Contact: Courtenay Redis 634-2677 John Blandford 232-6332 
Sponsored by Those Gays and Lesbians You've Heard 
About 
have gone through Saint Mary's before," Siragusa said. "It would allow each class to leave their individual mark." 
According to Siragusa, many students see the tunnels as dark and scary. The mural would brighten the walls which lack artistic expression. 
Collins, a member of Student Activities at Saint Mary, stressed that student involve­ment is essential to the success of the project. 
"You don't have to be a tal­ented artist to participate be­cause the mural will be sketched out by the Art Club," she said. 
Students will be able to fill in the sections with the appropri­ate colors. It is important that the administration know that students support the project, Collins said. 
"Not only is the school en­lightened by tradition in spirit but this project will be a visible sign of that spirit," Freshman Charity Bocan said. 
The committee would like the project to begin this Sesquicen­tennial year, with the initial work to start during AnTostal weekend. 
"In light of the fact that the class of 1997 will be the 150th graduating class, this mural will allow us to leave a symbol of our class to those that fol­low," Christine Riesenberger said. 
The committee encourages other students to voice their viewpoints to the administra­tion concerning this tentative project. 
Clinton denies clemency plea 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton rejected the clemency request of con­victed spy Jonathan Pollard, citing the "grave nature" of his espionage for Israel. 
"The enormity of Mr. Pol­lard's crime, the harm his ac­tions caused to our country, and the need to deter every person who might even con­sider such actions, warrant his continued incarceration" Clin­ton said in a statement. 
Pollard had sought a reduced sentence because his spying was for a friendly nation. 
The president announced his decision a day after receiving recommendations from Attor­ney General Janet Reno, the Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Department, who said Pollard should stay in jail. 
"My decision is based upon the grave nature of his offense and the considerable damage that his actions caused our na­tion," Clinton said. 
The decision, which has been pending for months, is fraught 
CONTRAC-r 
FOR 
LIFE 

THE COLLEGE CONTRACT FOR LIFE BETWEEN FRIENDS 
As students at , we recognize that many of our fellow students and friends choose to use alcoholic beverages and, that on occasion, some students may find themselves in a potential DWI situation. 
Therefore, we have entered into a contract in which we agree that if we are ever in a situation where we have had too much to drink, or a friend or date who has had too much to drink, we will seek safe and sober transportation home. 
We, the undersigned, also agree that we will provide or arrange safe, sober transportation home for each other should either of us face a situation where we have too much to drink. 
If we cannot find safe transportation, we will contact a taxi service, walk or stay the night. 
Signature of 1st Party Signature of 2nd Party 
Date Distributed by S.A.D.D., "Students Against Driving Drunk." 
If you are interested in signing a contract with one of your friends, you can find them 
next to the mailboxes in every dorm and copies will also be available in the front desk of La Fortune. If you have any questions or suggestions please contact Belen Serrano (Phone: 634-4096). 
with political overtones. Israel and some American Jewish groups pressured the adminis­tration to secure the early re­lease of Pollard. They say his punishment was too harsh, es­pecially because he spied for Israel, a U.S. ally. 
Shortly before the an­nouncement, Pollard's attorney, Theodore Olson, said he want­ed one more chance to make his case. "We want a chance to respond to the Justice recom­mendations and a chance to be heard directly by the White House. 
Ancient ash still dirties today's air 
By PAUL RAEBURN Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Belching silver smelters spewed lead into European skies more than 2,000 years before the Industrial Revolu­tion, leaving toxic fallout that remains a threat to modern humans, a study says. 
Researchers examined layers of sediment from 19 lakes in Sweden. They found that lead, a byproduct of silver refining, began settling on Europe's lakes and soils 2,600 years ago, when the ancient Greeks began refining silver for coins. 
Lead emissions rose to a pre­industrial peak 600 years later, under the Romans, but then declined again as the Romans exhausted their mines, the sed­iments showed. 
Lead pollution soared with the arrival of the Industrial Revolution in the 19th century. But the total amount of lead re­leased before then is at least as large as what has since been released, the study found. 
The study by biologist Inge­mar Renberg and colleagues at the University of Umea in Swe­den was being published Thursday in Nature magazine, a British scientific journal. 
Sulphur and other toxic met­als were probably injected into the atmosphere along with the lead, Renberg said. 
Studies are under way to measure those other pollu­tants, he said. 
The toxic metals released in the pre-industrial era remain a threat to human health, he said. 
"Metals are metals and can't be destroyed, and they inust be somewhere in the soils or the systems," Renberg said in a telephone interview. 
The Swedish study provides the most complete historical record of lead emissions, said Claire C. Patterson, an emeri­tus professor of geochemistry at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena. 
"This is quite new," Patterson said. 
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 24, 1994 
Israeli military rocks Arab terrorist hide-out 
By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 
Associated Press 
HEBRON 
As dawn broke Wednesday, the Muslim call to prayer com­peted with the staccato chatter of machine guns and explosions of rockets tearing apart a stone building suspected as a guer­rilla hideout. 
When the 22-hour siege ended at midafternoon, four Is­lamic militants and a woman bystander were dead, and Arabs opposed to the resump­tion of Middle East peace talks had a new rallying cry. 
The gunbattle came less than a month after a Jewish settler shot 30 Palestinian worshipers to death in Hebron's ancient 
North Korea threatens; South steps up security 
By PAUL SHIN 
Associated Press 
SEOUL Stepping up its rhetorical of­fensive, North Korea warned the United States on Wednes­day not to forget the lessons of the Korean War. South Korea put its 650,000 troops on spe­cial alert. The South Korean military was ordered to cancel leaves and keep commanders at their posts. Land, sea, and aerial patrols were increased, officials said. While the militaries of both Koreas are frequently put on alert, Wednesday's order was a higher level than usual and took on special significance as North Korea grows increasingly belligerent over accusations it is developing nuclear weapons. The move expanded an alert ordered by President Kim Young-sam at an emergency national security meeting Monday. "We need watertight security. There must be no letup," De­fense Minister Rhee Byoung-tae told a parliamentary com­mittee. Rhee said the high alert will remain in force at least until the president returns from a weeklong trip to Japan and China next Wednesday. Rhee said there are no signs of an impending invasion, al­though North Korea's 1.1 mil­lion-strong army has increased its land and aerial activity by 50 percent. In Beijing, North Korean Am­bassador Chu Chang Jun said war may break out if the United States ships Patriot mis­siles to South Korea and goes ahead with joint military exer­cises. "The American side should not forget the historical experi­ence from the Korean War of the 1950s and should use it as a lesson," Chu said. 
• ....,.....(1'111): 
·12:411:11 5:JI7:4511:11 .....TIII(PCIIt. 1:45 4:11 t45 1:11 CfiiiY CPCII): til M 1:111.. ~.lldl CPCII): tiltJI7:111 :II Dl 1:11111 (Pill): 1•tll5:111:111:11 
lllbllllllll/1 (PCII): ·1!:112:41S.7:151 :41 
Tomb of the Patriarchs about a half-mile away. Palestinian leaders accused the army of endangering civilians with the siege. 
Palestinians were especially incensed the roof of a pediatric hospital holding 32 children was used as a staging point by Israeli soldiers to pour fire at the holed-up guerrillas. 
That move also drew protests from the International Red Cross and other human rights groups. 
Israeli military censors banned news media from re­porting on the battle until after it ended, apparently hoping to hold down Palestinian protests in the occupied territories. 
But U.N. spokesman Sami 
Mshasha said 18 Palestinians were wounded in clashes with troops during protests in He­bron and others towns in the. West Bank. 
The army said the siege start­ed around 4 p.m. Tuesday, when an Israeli patrol was shot at from the building. An army spokesman, Capt. Ram Izrach, said the last shots heard from inside the building came at around 2 p.m. Wednesday. 
"They were called on many times to surrender, but the an­swer was always gunfire," he told an Associated Press re­porter at the scene. 
Izrach said five soldiers suf­fered minor wounds, including the driver of an armored bull­dozer who was wounded by glass fragments when guerrillas fired as he battered the three­story building. 
Reporters estimated troops fired more than 100 anti-tank rockets along with thousands of bullets from machine guns and automatic rifles. 
Night turned to day, setting roosters crowing, when up to 15 yellow flares at a time glided down over Hebron repeatedly Tuesday night. 
Red tracer bullets streamed at the hideout, which was held in the glare of blinding spot­lights that jumped from window to window looking for move­ment. 
"After the thousands of shots they've fired in there, only ghosts and angels could be left," said Surayia Abu Sineini, 44, who watched the battle that turned a refurbished white stone building into a fire-black­ened wreck. 
Maj. Gen. Ehud Barak, the military chief of staff, said the four dead were among the most dangerous wanted members of the Islamic Resistance Move­ment, or Hamas. 
Announcing the battle during testimony before a commission investigating the mosque mas­sacre, Barak said the Pales­tinian bystander apparently died from gunfire by the guer­rillas. 
But Al-Ahli hospital in Hebron said an army bullet killed Hunduq Zahdeh, 34, who was five months' pregnant. 
the ultimate battle of the 23 most talented bands at Notre Dame 

About 54,000 American sol­diers were killed in the three­year Korean War, which ended in 1953. 
About 400,000 South Koreans died, and Chinese and North Korean casualties were esti­mated at 1.5 million. 
In a report monitored in Tokyo, the official Korea Cen­tral News Agency accused the United States of escalating ten­sions by sending the missiles and reviving the joint exercises. 
The Pyongyang government will not be intimidated by the American actions, the report said. The North "is prepared for both dialogue and war. This is its unshakable stand and will." 
The 151-mile Korean border, the world's most heavily armed, was calm Wednesday, Rhee said. North Korea's mili­tary held a routine winter field training exercise, he said. 
Rhee said South Korea has strengthened early warning systems along the border in cooperation with the 36,000 
U.S. troops stationed in the country. 
North Korea, which is sus­pected of building nuclear weapons, refused to let inspec­tors from the International Atomic Energy Agency fully in­spect its nuclear sites earlier this month, prompting a new standoff with the United States. 
Check En_gine 
Spinning jenny
Sleight ofHana 
ComeupJ!.ance
Trash the Craven 
Pulse 
Spoon Fed 
Defunct 
True North 
Dazed 11 Confused 
Tabula Rasa 
The Road Apples 
Michael McGlinn 
July
Pinchpoint 
Victoria's Heal Secret 
Cripe St. 
emily_
Sunshine Wine 
Candyflip 
Roadrunner &the Acme Do-it-YourselfHorn Kit 
Katharsis 
XYZ Affair 
I 
I 
L__ 

By SARA LEAVITT 
News Writer 
Christians and students ex­pect hope for a better future, academic success and profes­sional success in life, yet miss aspects of faith, according to Father John Dunne, theology chair at Notre Dame. 
In a lecture at Saint Mary's yesterday, Dunne lectured on faith's role among Christian students. 
"If you hold too tightly to hope you will miss the true 
faith when it comes into your life," Dunne said. "Christ depicted on the cross or a bare cross both symbolize overcom­ing death by going through it and how Christ's death allows there to be hope." 
He used the analogy of hop-

FINANCE CLUB 
Informational Meeting 
TODAY! 
Thursday, March 24 
221 Hayes-Healy 
All members welcome. Important news regarding this year and next! 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 

ON THEIRWAY TO THE TOP. 
If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a By the time you have graduated from freshman or sophomore, you can still college, you'll have the credentials of catch up to your classmates by 
an Army officer. You'll also have attending Army ROTC Camp Chal­the self-confidence and discipline lenge, a paid six-week summer it takes to succeed in college and course in leadership training. beyond. 
ARMY ROTC 
TIE SMUTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
ing to see a friend to emphasize two different types of hope. 
The first hope, a fixed hope, is when a person anticipates seeing a friend and waits for only that friend, missing other people because of waitng and hoping to see the one you 
Mexico 
continued from page 1 
was blood on him, but I couldn't tell if it his or Colosio's. It was chaos." 
At least one handgun was re­ported used in the assassina­tion attempt. 
Television showed Colosio, dressed casually in an open­neck white shirt and slacks, be­ing picked up off the ground by a group of aides, and hustled through a milling, shouting crowd near a stage where his name was printed in large black and white letters. 
Blood dripped from his fore­head and his eyes were open but unfocused. He appeared in shock. The aides struggled through the crowd to get Colo­sio to a car. 
Other footage showed an­other group, which appeared to include police, some of them waving pistols, clutching a dark-haired young man. Around them, other people surged forward, snatching at the man's hair, throwing punches and screaming. 
The attack plunged the PRJ leadership into a quandary over its political future. If Colosio does not recover, the party leadership will have to go through the process of selecting another candidate, but how ex-expect to see. 
The other hope is an "open ended hope or hopefulness" which would allow individuals to experience everything and yet not miss out on the unex­pected events and people. 
actly it would do that was not immediately clear. 
A visibly enraged Manuel Camacho Solis, who only a day earlier had taken himself out of the presidential race, lamented the attack. 
"This is an attempt against peace and democracy in this country, " he said in a state­ment to reporters. 
Camacho is the government's representative in talks with the rebels in Chiapas state. 
His withdrawal Tuesday doused fears of a split in the party that has ruled for 65­years. 
Colosio's campaign had long languished in shadow of Cama­cho's negotiations with the masked guerrilla leader, Sub­comandante Marcos, in San Cristobal de las Casas. 
The rebels have made democracy a central demand for laying down their weapons and it was not immediately clear how Wednesday's shoot­ing will impact the negotia­tions. 
The talks have not yielded an accord. 
Colosio's main rival is Cuauhtemoc Cardenas of the left-leaning Democratic Revolu­tionary Party. 
As soon as he heard the news, Cardenas announced he was stopping his campaign until further notice in solidarity with Colosio. 

Days 
1\!;)' 0 1\.'th 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
(219)277.. 1291
51408 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 Phone Answered 24 hrs. 
The Last 21 Years 
Have Been Great! 
Have A Happy Birthday 
We Love You 
Billy '93, Michael '97, 
Teresa, Christine 
Mom and Dad 
SOUTH BEND RECORD&CD COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
SUNDAY, MARCH 2ifH 10:00 AM-5:00 PM 
ADMISSION $3.00 
AT: THE HOUDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) 515DIXIEWAYN. US 31 -33 NOR1H 
1.00 OFF ADMISSION wrrn DDS AD 
BUY. SELL.TRADE SIC COLLECI'IBLES FROM TilE SO's 60's 70's 80's 90's 
LP's-CD's-45's -12 indJ singles-impoTU posters -""'gazina -boob -conart phok>$ -video.! /·shirts. ca.5seltes. pilu-patches aNI mudJ mon/!1 
FOR DEALER 

~-~--------~-~-~~-~-~-----~--------­
----------------------~--------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, March 24, 1994 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 

1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters 
Managing Editor John Lucas 
News Editor ...............................Sarah Doran V"AeWpOint Editor ........... , ............ Suzanne Fry Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor............................... Mary Good Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan 
Business Manager Joseph Riley 
Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayrer Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 63I-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's Managing EditorNiewpoint 63I-454I Day Editor/Production Business Office 631-5313 Advertising Sports 63I-4543 Systems/OTS News/Photo 63I-5323 Office Manager 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
631-4540 631-5303 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 

Article on Endowment deserves clarification 
Dear Editor: 
The University has always en­couraged faculty, students and other members of the Notre Dame family to take an active interest in the Endowment, and we are grateful for professor Fullenkamp's article in the "Business Forum" on March 15 which brings a subject that is very important, shareholder activism, to the public forum. 
While we wholeheartedly agree with the spirit of the arti­cle, there are a few factual is­sues that merit clarification: 
•The 
vast majority of the Endowment is currently in­vested directly with profession­al investment advisory firms as opposed to mutual funds. To this end, approximately $720 million of the nearly $1 billion in assets is managed directly, $210 million is invested in pooled investment trusts with other University Endowments and $35 million is invested in an institutional mutual fund. 

•The 
Endowment currently has direct equity holdings in over 300 individual companies, and significant interests in many other companies through fixed income and venture capi­tal investments: 

•Notre 
Dame has historically been a leader in the area of so­cially responsible investing. From the South Africa Policy to the Social Responsibility Investment Policy Statement which serves as a guide to in­vesting in a manner consistent with Catholic doctrine, the University has consistently placed the pursuit of monetary returns within the context of its own social goals. We have also aggressively voted our own 


DOONESBURY 
proxies in an effort to influence those corporate issues which have social or moral conse­quences. 
•It is truly exciting that we are on the verge of a major milestone in the history of the Endowment, the $1 billion mark, which has placed us as the 16th largest university en­dowment and one of the fastest growing. 
However, the institutional funds which have grabbed the headlines with their share­holder activism programs are significantly larger (e.g. the California Public Employees' Retirement System (CALPERS) has $80 billion and AT&T has $60 billion). 
When we add these public and corporate pension funds to the peer group, Notre Dame ranks around 500th. As the fund grows, we will continue to enhance and strengthen our shareholder activism activities in a manner which is consistent with our social goals and objec­tives and our mission as the preeminent Catholic University in the world. 
The Notre Dame Endowment is one of the strongest and most well diversified in higher education. We have been blessed with the generous sup­port of our alumni and extend­ed family, strong leadership, and consistently prudent man­agement. We have created a program which ensures incred­ible opportunities for current and future generations of Notre Dame faculty and students. 
SCOTT MALPASS Chief Investment Officer 
Bookstore lacks participants 
Dear Editor: 
For those of you who don't know, Bookstore Basketball is one of Notre Dame's great tra­ditions. Anyone on the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, or Holy Cross campuses can take part. In the past, faculty members, administration members, Food Services employees, and Maintenance employees have played as well. It is this wide variety of talent that makes this tournament great and unique. Well, this and the "creative" names teams have used. 
Half the fun of Bookstore Basketball is reading the names after you get the list of teams at the captain's meeting. My father is an alumnus and has The Observer delivered home. I can remember him laughing over dinner as he read the names and results of the games. He would get a kick out of teams making fun of faculty members, the administration, and certain basketball coaches. 
Team names reflect current events and are based upon news "celebrities." John Kruk, Nancy Kerrigan, and John Bobbitt are just a few of the names to appear in team names this year more than a few times. 
The Bookstore tournament is the largest outdoor five on five basketball tournament in the world. Its reputation is so great that ESPN has shown interest in the past in televising the championship game. Corporate sponsors have also shown in­terest in the tournament. Back in the late '70s, Sports Illustrated did an article on Bookstore Basketball and is possibly willing to do another article in an upcoming issue. The popularity of this tourna­ment is annually growing; well, until this year. 
As of Monday, the number of teams that have signed up is smaller than last year's tour­nament number. Is it apathy? Is it a lack of promotion on the part of the Bookstore commis­sion? I will accept full respon­sibility if the number is low be­cause of lack of promotion on our part. It should be noted that this year's promotions were comparable to last year's. However, I will not accept thtl fact that people are not playing because he or she "isn't very good" or "couldn't find four other players." If only five-hun­dred teams have signed up, then there is a large percentage of students, faculty, and staff that are not participating 
Please take part in one of this university's truly great and spe­cial traditions. Each and every team, whether good or bad, adds to the already rich her­itage this tournament pos­sesses. Please don't miss out. 
GREG BIEG Sophomore Head Commissioner 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 


........ 
... 
ACCE-NT -. 
Thursday, March 24, 1994 page 11 
z ..... 
Come sail away 
By ELIZABETH OSWALD Accent Writer 
Many students dream of sailing away from the snow covered tundra to warm, tropical islands. For junior Steve Kelley, this dream was not far from reality. While the student body prepared to begin classes, Kelley was preparing to sail in the 1994 J -24 World Championships in Sidney, Australia. 
Seven individual teams representing the United States competed against fif­teen countries for the J-24 World Title. Each U.S. team had gained this oppor­tunity by qualifying in the 1993 National Championships. Kelley's team, earning second place in the Nati( nals, secured themselves a position on this elite team. 
The J-24, crewed by five men, was 
quite a family affair. The crew consist­
ed of Kelley's father and brother, him­
self, and two other sailors. Placing 27th 
out of the 50 boats in competition, 
Kelley was pleased with his per­
formance. 
"It was a great experience and we 
were generally happy with our turnout 

Gotta Regatta 
ND/SMC Sailing Team novices to compete 
BY LYNN BAUWENS 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
With the official arrival of spring, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Sailing Team is ready to break the ice. The club sport team will be host­ing the "Freshman Ice Breaker Regatta" this weekend on Saint Joseph Lake to open their sea­son of competition. It is also the first regatta of the Midwestern Collegiate Sailing Association. 
This regatta provides an opportunity for those people on the team who usually do not sail in competition. 
"It gives the freshman and novices a chance to sail. Most regattas are for advanced sailors," said Patrice Miller, Commodore of the sailing team. "They get to participate and to feel like they are part of a team." 
Thirteen teams will be competing in this week­end's regatta. Those traveling to compete include Marquette University, the University of Western Ontario and the University of Michigan. 
The teams are divided into A and B divisions with a skipper and a crew for each division. The teams will complete one rotation in which each division sails in each boat. Each team sails in every boat so that no one has the advantage of competing in a faster boat. 
The boats to be sailed are Flying Juniors and all are identical in design There are 13 boats which will be sailed in the rotation. 
The regatta begins at 9:30 a.m. this Saturday, March 26. Saint Joseph beach will be open to the public at no charge to watch the races. 


N
otre Dame junior Steve Kelley sails 
'down under' in nationals 
in the race," said Kelley. 
This race was not a frrst time experi-. ence for him. A native of Southern California, Kelley's roots in sailing start­ed at quite a young age. 
"At first it was something to do in the summertime," he said. ".1 began by attending junior sailing camps and even­tually worked my way from sailing small Sabbaths to the boats that I sail now." 
J. 
I 
~,,,,,,,"',,,,,,~, 
The ObserverfTom Perez 
While having competed in the J-24 race in Australia, Kelley has not limited himself to that particular class of boat. Kelley's other strength is in sailing Lasers. 
An Olympic class event in sailing, the Laser is a single-handed boat with a carefully designed lighter weight hull. 
The Laser runs a short course, making it very difficult to maneuver and demanding the utmost strength and concentration. 
Kelley recently competed in the United States Sailing Association Championships held in New Jersey in the Laser class. Representing Southern California, he placed seventh overall. 
Kelley can .not spend all of his time away from school. While on campus, he acts as captain of the ND/SMC Sailing Team. In the past year, he has partici­pated in the regattas that the team has attended including the Intercollegiate Singlehand National Championships, in Seattle, where he placed 14th. 
As for his future in sailing, Kelley has no definite plans. "I enjoy the competi­tion and athletic challenge of singles sailing," said Kelley. "People don't real­ize that you can actually get a gold medal for this sort of thing." 
Are there Olympic hopes for Kelley? Perhaps. Keep an eye on this sailor in the year 2000, back "down under." Steve Kelley could give the term 'golden dome' a double meaning. 
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 24, 1994 
Last second shot lifts Pacers 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Dale Davis put back an of­fensive rebound with 0.8 sec­onds remaining, lifting the Indiana Pacers to a 78-77 vic­tory over the Cleveland Cava­liers on Wednesday night. 
The Pacers' victory came one night after the Cavaliers embar­rassed them 93-61, a franchise low for Indiana. The Pacers turned the tables with their best defensive half of the sea­son, holding the Cavs to 27 points in the first half. 
But Mark Price gave Cleveland a 77-76 lead with 10 seconds left when he hit a 16­footer. Antonio Davis tipped in a missed free throw to put the Pacers in front 76-75 with 16 seconds to play. 
The Pacers, with no time­outs, rushed the ball downcourt on their final possesion, and Reggie Miller missed a 15-foot­er from the baseline. But Davis was open for the rebound, made the layup and was fouled. 
He intentionally missed the free throw, and Cle\reland was awarded a timeout with 0.5 seconds left. The inbounds pass went to Price, but he fumbled the ball out of bounds at the buzzer sealing only the second win for the Pacers in their last 13 meetings with Cleveland. 
The Cavaliers took only their second lead of the night when Terrell Brandon hit two free throws to make it 7 S-7 4 with 
1:08 to play. 
Derrick McKey led Indiana with 12 points, and five other Pacers scored 10 apiece. 
Lakers 112, Mavericks 109 
The Los Angeles Lakers didn't look like a struggling team in need of a new coach Wednesday night, climbing back from an eight-point deficit with 2:29 to play to beat the lowly Dallas Mavericks 112­109. 
The furious ending was fit­ting for the Lakers, who in the previous 24 hours learned Magic Johnson would become their head coach on Sunday, replacing Randy Pfund. Longtime assistant Bill Bertka won his coaching debut, and he'll remain in charge Thurs­day against Houston. 
Nick Van Exel, who scored 28 points, picked up the Lakers down the stretch, hitting a 
layup and  a  3-pointer before  
assisting on  their final three  
baskets.  

The Mavericks, who lost their 12th straihgt, trailed 65­55 with 8:24 left in the third quarter, but they charged back behind Doug Smith, who scored a career-high 36 points, to lead 107-99 with 2:29 left. 
Then Van Exel and George Lynch took control, lifting the Lakers to their seventh win in nine games. 
Van Exel passed to Lynch for a layup with 50 seconds left to pull Los Angeles to 109-108, then Van Exel passed to Tony Smith for a layup with 32 sec­onds remaining, giving the Lakers a 110-109 lead. 
Lynch and Fat Lever had a jump ball with 13 seconds left after being tied up on a re­bound. Lever swatted it to Vlade Divac, who found Van Exel at midcourt. Van Exel then hit Lynch for another layup with 5.9 seconds to go. 
Jim Jackson ran upcourt to try a 3-pointer, but Sedale Threatt blocked him from behind with 2.0 seconds left. After a Lakers timeout, Tim Legler missed a 3-pointer at the buzzer. 
When Johnson takes over, he'll get a Laker team playing its best ball of the season. His former teammates and soon-to­be pupils have won three straight, four of five and nine of 13. 
Los Angeles (28-37) is five games behind Denver (33-32) for the eighth and final Western Conference playoff spot. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Work in the Wild! Tour guide, dude For Sale: 2 Gin Blossoms Tickets. Quotes and happenings from the ranch, instructor, lifeguard, trail Call Mike or Steve @ x1579 & leave Key West "F" Group!! 
I LOST & FOUND I maintenance, hotel staff, firefighter .____F_O_R_RE_N_T_ __.I I.__F_O_R_S_A_L_E_--J best offer. 
+volunteer and government posi­"Beautiful! 1 ,2,3,4,5,6,7,8-You're FOUND: Gold-like good sized ear­tions available at national parks. BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES· 1984 BUICK ELECTRA LTD. all beautiful" ing. Call x435B. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Over ND/SMC EVENTS LIGHT BLUE 4-DOOR PERSONAL "Shrimp with heads" (and eyes & 
25,000 openings! Apply now for (219)291·7153 CALL X3001 W/ OFFER legs)" LOST: HONDA KEY best positions. For more info call: 1-WAY TO GO, CLAY COLONIALS! "Spring Break '94 ... Ricks!" 
206-545-4804 FOR SALE -INDY 500 TICKETS. TAKE STATE! "Tag, tag"-T.V. music trivia Honda key lost somewhere ext. N55B4 OAKHILL CONDOI Spacious liv· GREAT 3RD +4TH TURN "Look guys there's my car!" between D6 and Dillon. ing/dining area, 1 BR w/lg. loft, 2 ACTION. CALL Math tutoring available .... "Honda .... red .. ." If found, call Tom at x174B SUBWAY is NOW HIRING Bth, fireplace, W/D, vaulted ceiling, 272-7233. Senior honors math major will tutor "That would be 3" 
If you are an enthusiastic, depend­garage, balcony. 12 mo. lease, 2 any 1 00 or 200-level math courses, "Spindrifts Snack Bar Room" FOUND: a really great watch in able self starter, person max. Walking distance to ZENITH 286 Desktop LP, 20/40 MB possibly higher levels as well. Nicole's Sound Effects Debartolo room 155 on 3/21. Call to we would like to talk to you. Flexible campus. $650/mo. Call Caroline or fixed disks, 3.5" floppy, mouse, Times and rates negotiable. "Please Don't get sick. If you do, I'll identify. x3486 hours and friendly atmosphere. Call Bill at (317)297-8485 modem, 14" VGA color monitor, Call Jeff @ 277-5612 get sick" 
Jacki or Penny at 277-n44 for an programs+ EPSON L-1000 Action Listening to your Smiley Face tape? We know the sound of two hands interview. COLLEGE PARK Printer. $375.00 includes desk, JENNIFER -GO FOR IT!! I WE ARE "Cooookies. Doooonuts" clapping, but what is the sound of CONDOMINIUMS shelves, and p-stand. WITH YOU ALL THE WAYI "I wouldn't care it you died tomor­one hand clapping? My right hand CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING --1/4 mile from library CALL 273-1984 w/ offer! YOU'RE #11 LOVE. MOM, DAD row" still lacks a black leather ladies' Eam up to $2000+/month working -New appliances AND THE WHOLE GANG Thanks for the memories! Love you glove! Call Beth x 4994. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­-2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms NOT FOR SALE -all!! 
panies. World travel. Summer & -Washer & Dryer units FREE FREE FREE LOST: MORRISSEY INTERHALL Full-Time employment available. No -Large closets FREE UPRIGHT PIANO WITH Two people need a ride to the D.C. TWO BORING, LOSER FEMALE . JACKET AT CCE. REWARD. experience necessary. For more -Covered parking BENCH. area for Easter break. Will help with COUCH POT SEEK NON-MAIN­CALL LARRY 4-3444. information call 1-206-634-0468 ext. -Security System YOU HAUL. 277-4970. gas, tolls, and driving. Call Mark at STREAM ALTERNATIVE MOTOR­
C6675 -Large balconies 273-4865. CYCLE LOVING MALES FOR ----!Units now available-Macintosh Classic, lmagewriter POSSIBLE GOOD TIME SAT.,
WANTED 
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER printer, system 7 and tons of soft­MARCH 26. IF INTERESTED, 
EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $660 per month ..... Going Quicklyll ware: Word, Page, Excel ... SABOR LATINO CALL JEN & JEN AT 284-5536. $750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­$15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­••••••••cALL: 272-0691•••••••••• mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860-NERIES, PRE>CESSORS, ETC. $500 or best offer @273-3920 Saturday March 26 10pm Top 10 items stolen from 1647 0219 MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­Turtle Creek S. Friday 
ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL Turtle Creek Townhome for school 2 BIKES $50. EA. & FAX. 272-6306 Club 23 10.soap CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN­year of 1994-95 is available. Call 9. conditioner to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 Reg at x14BO for information. IMMACULATE 2 BDRM HOME SABOR LATINO B. perfume Land-Tour companies. World travel. extA29. NEAR CAMPUS. $29,900. GILLIS 7. mirror Summer & Full-Time employment HAVE 2 BDR APT-LOOKING FOR REALTY 272-6306,232-1466 6. 2 shot glasses available. No exp necessary. For Female roomate to live off-campus FML ROOMMATE FOR 1ST SEM 5. 2 kegs info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext. (anywhere) next year. ONLY '94 AT CASTLE PT. CALL GIN BLOS. TIX-2-Best Offer 273-4. cordless phone C5584 Please call Carolyn 284-4356 284-4045 OR x4394 5989 SUMMER JOBS -ALL 3. tap 
LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­2. camera If you can give me a ride to the SUMMER LIFE GUARD BED AND BREAKFAST for gradua­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 1. funnel 
TICKETS
Boston area for Easter Break, We need 1 or 2 fully-certified life­tion and football weekends. 2 bed­ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR If you have any of these items, please call Lt. Jim at Crime guards for our miniature wave pool rooms (twins) and 1 bedroom (sin­LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-please return them. Our apartment Stoppers x3521. No one will know in Granger. 40 hr. wk. at $5.50/hr. gle) with separate bath-10 minutes FOR SALE: 8373 is empty! you name. Complete season hours. Season from campus. Reasonable, call 234-ONE PLANE TICKET TO/FROM 
5/25/94-Labor day, 1994. 2626 KANSAS CITY OVER EASTER Quality Copies, Quickly. "THE PRE-TERM BABY: "A Glob of Anyone headed to Omaha, NE for Weekends only after school starts. BREAK FOR $80. CALL NICKY IF THE COPY SHOP Cells' or Special Patient?" Easter? I need a ride for 1 or 2 Call Jim Wyllie 277-1335. INTERESTED AT 4-1308. LaFortune Student Center Presented By: Dr. Zubie Sheikh, Call 284-4449 REMODELED 1 BR HOME $400 Phone 631-COPY University of Chicago 
CARPENTERS HELPER: Seasonal MO. DEPOSIT REQUIRED CALL FOR SALE: March 28, 1994 ­Jordan's Ford, Toyota, Volvo, position with large apartment com­256-9109 AFTER 5:00PM GRADU­4 Shawn Colvin tickets In a hurry ... 7:30-8:30 Mistubishi in Mishawaka is currently munity. Basic knowledge of wood­ATE STUDENT PREFERRED. In Chicago this Friday night don't worry. De Bart 126 seeking a Campus Representative working. Will train the right person. Face value ($25 each). FAX IT! to aid in the process of sales Apply in person M-F, 9-5 to Hickory 1 , 2, & 3 BEDROOM HOMES. First come, first served. at I was bruised and battered, throughout our dealership. Village Apartments, 4312 Hickory, NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE NOW Call Tom@ 1-8775 THE COPY SHOP I couldn't tell what I felt. Commission based position. north of Edison. & FALL. STARTING AT $225. MO. LaFortune Student Center Interested parties please contact GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6306 FOR SALE: NEW LOWER PRICES! In the beginning, there was a party, Mr. Jim Hoffer at Billy Joel tix anywhere in Midwest­4 Shawn Colvin tickets and God said that it was good ... (219)259-1981 ext. 354. will pay $75per Stevex2009 In Chicago this Friday night 
Moving home for the summer? Let Face value ($25 each). ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club This Saturday, Beverly Hills, 
CO-ED SUMMER CAMP IN MAINE Hertz Penske truck rental help First come, first served. members: No class at Stepan this Melrose Place, and biblical times We need a ride to MN for Easter. seeks staff from 6-17 to B-21 to make the job easier. Call Kelly or Call Tom@ 1-8775 Thursday. We will be going to Dan collide at Turtle Creek Courtyard. Will pay gas & tolls. Call Brian or teach athletics, tennis, ropes cours­Judie at 291-1414 for a quote on O'Day's! Meet at the MAIN circle Kory es, rock climbing, backpacking, our one-way unlimited mileage FOR SALE: (by Alumni Hall) at 7:30 Thurs. Watch Moses lead the people out of 4-3049 swimming, fishing, sailing, waterski­rates. 4 Shawn Colvin tickets Ques? Call Laurie 4-3490. Egypt, all the while chanting, 
ing, performing arts and many In Chicago this Friday night "Donna Martin graduates." Going to Dayton over Easter/ Will more. Age 20+. Contact Camp Face value ($25 each). HAVE YOU WRITTEN THE help drive,$! Jen 2801 Wekeela's winter office at 1-B00-TRTLE CRK TOWNHOUSE AVAIL­First come, first served. MAYOR YET? COUNTY-CITY See Amanda turn into a pillar of fire 959-31n. ABLE FOR SUMMER Call Tom@ 1-8775 BLDG. I SO. BEND IN 46601 by night. CALL 273-6564 FOR INFO 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Villanova, Lawson nip Xavier 

Associated Press 
VILLANOVA. Pa. 
Steve Lappas figures Vil­lanova's time has come -and freshman Jason Lawson is helping the Wildcats along. 
"We've had a great tradition here, but never won the NIT," Lapas, the Villanova coach, said Wednesday night. "It would be a giant accomplishment for the school if we could win the championship." 
The Wildcats took a step in that direction Wednesday night, advancing to the semifinals of the National Invitation Tournament with a 76-74 quar­terfinal victory over Xavier, Ohio. 
PLACEMENT EXAMS IN FRENCH AND SPANISH 
In order to register for Romance language courses 102, 102A, 103,201 or 241 by DART, students must be in the language sequence and have taken the course prerequisites. In French or Spanish, students may receive advanced placement into a course by taking either the CEEB, AP or Notre Dame exams. If you have previous language experience in French or Spanish, but are not in a language sequence and have not taken a placement exam, you must sign up for the departmental exam by calling the placement exam registration line at 1-6887 by 
Friday, March 25th. Exams will be 
given from 7-9 p.m. on Tuesday, 
March 29th. Results will be mailed by the registrar's office and students will be able to use DART to register for classes. If you have 
questions, please call the Department of 
Romance Languages and Literatures at 1-6886 
or come to the department office, 343 
O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
YOU MUST BRING YOUR I.D. TO ENTER 
THE EXAM ROOM. 
On Monday in New York, the "We've had a tough few Wildcats will face the winner of days," he said. "At North­Thursday night's Bradley-Siena western we played (Monday) in game. front of a very hostile crowd 
Villanova (18-12) got excellent and won the game in overtime. play down the stretch from Eric Tonight out two guards Steve Eberz, who hit a jump shot with Gentry and Jeff Massey were 25 seconds left, and Kerry both sick, but they hung in Kittles, who made two free there. We didn't play very well throws with five seconds but we had the courage to keep remaining. fighting." 
And, of course, there was Two free throws by Alvin Lawson, who had 17 points, a Williams gave Villanova a 70­season-high 15 rebounds and 60 lead with 4:11 remaining, six blocks. The 6-foot-11 center but Xavier (22-8) then scored has been hurt by foul trouble 10 straight points and tied it on this season, but he had no com-a jumper by Massey with 1:46 plaints about the officiating to play. Wednesday night. Kittles made a breakaway 
"The referees weren't calling layup for the Wildcats, but it very tight, so there are some Xavier's Brian Grant countered you can do and some you with two free throws with 57 can't," he said. "I just wanted seconds left to tie it 72-72. to be as aggressive as I could Eberz then hit an 18-footer but stay out of foul trouble." and Kittles added two free 
Xavier coach Pete Gillen was throws to put Villanova ahead impressed. 76-72. Gentry made a jumper 
"I think Jason Lawson is one at the buzzer for the final mar­of the five best freshmen in the gin. country right now, and before Villanova held a 54-43 lead he's finished he could become a with 12:46 left before Massey big star," Gillen said. sparked an 11-0 Xavier run. 
Dillen said illness and a gruel-The Wildcats then scored 11 in ing tournament schedule didn't a row to take a 65-54 lead with help his team. 5:58 remaining. 
George may finally earn wish, trade 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Jeff George, who boycotted the Indianapolis Colts training camp last summer, could get his wish to be traded by the end of the week. 
The Colts would not comment Wednesday on a newspaper report that George's agent expects a deal to be consum­mated with the Atlanta Falcons during the NFL owners meeting in Orlando. 
Bill Tobin, the Colts' vice president of football operations, and Ken Herock, the Falcons' vice president of player person-
NCAA 
continued from page 20 
That confidence should go a long way in helping Peterson 
LAFAYETTE SouARE 
T 0 W N H 0~ E S 
"Luxury Living .You Can Enjoy & Afford" "lVhere Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
nel, reportedly began serious discussions Sunday. 
"I've talked to Bill and I've talked to Ken. That's all I can say," George's agent, Lee Steinberg, said. "I don't know what they're doing right now, and that's the honest-to-God truth." 
The Colts used Atlanta's first­round draft pick in 1990 to get George, a trade that also sent receiver Andre Rison and tack­le Chris Hinton to the Falcons. George, who ranks fourth in Colts career yardage, missed 36 days of training camp last sum­mer but never publicly said why. 
become accustomed to her position as the best swimmer on the Notre Dame team, the one who will be relied upon to guide the Irish towards nation­al recognition. 
"Starting with Tanya Williams (a four year NCAA qualifier) five years ago, Notre Dame has always had someone competing at the top levels," stated Irish captain Kristin Heath. "Jesslyn is a continua­tion of that tradition." 
"My main goal was to make sure someone qualified from our team, since we've had someone go in the past and this season it looked like that spot might be empty," said Peterson. "I was excited that we were represented." 
"The top 16 swimmers after the first round compete for the championship, and Jesslyn's best times would have scored," commented Julian. "We're looking forward to an exciting next two years with her." 
''I'm looking to keep my mo­mentum going, and I expect great improvement both for myself and for the team," con­cluded Peterson. "Now that I've experienced the champi­onships, I feel it's a reachable goal to make the final16." 

page 14 The Observer • HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL Thursday, March 24, 1994 
If you're playing Clay, get ready to pay Upstart Colonials competing in Indiana's Final Four 

Your Personal Plan for Coping with Stress 
Step One: Make a personal commitment to learn how to cope with everyday stress. 
Step Two: Learn what stress is, what causes distress, and how and why distress destroys vital organs and body systems and causes premature aging and death.
"-­
Step Three: Separate your worries over which you have control from those that are beyond your control. 
Step Four: Learn how to work with controllable and uncontrollable worries. 
By STEVE HERMAN Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Three of the Final Four teams at the Hoosier Dome on Saturday have been ranked No. 1 in the state at one time or an­other this season. Then there's South Bend Clay. 
"Obviously, we are the un­derdog, but it doesn't mean we're not as talented or can't play with them, because we can," said coach Tom DeBaets. 
The No. 17 -ranked Colonials, who had never won even a regional tournament before this year, play No. 3 New Albany in one semifinal on Saturday. That winner will meet either top­ranked and unbeaten Valparaiso or No. 5 Indianapo­lis Ben Davis, last year's run­ner-up, in the championship game Saturday night. 
"Our kids don't feel much pressure. They might get out at the Hoosier Dome and be elat-
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Sophomores and Freshmen 
Philosophy: Meet Your Majors 
Thursday, March 24 6:00-7:00 p.m. Room 114 O'Shag Refreshments Served 
For further information contact Prof. David O'Connor Room 337 O'Shag. 1-7534 
r------------------------~ 
Opening Day is Coming! I I 
I
And we want YOU 
I 
to throw out the first pitch! 
I I Would you like to represent the student body at the I March 30 home opener of the 1994 Notre Dame I Baseball season at the innaugural game of Frank Eck I Stadium by throwing out the first pitch? ~ 
rr~.. !
Just fill this out and return it to: ~ ·'· · Student First Pitch Contest <• Sports Marketing Department -JACC -~ by 5:00p.m. Monday, March 28. 
Name:.__________________________________ _ 

Address:.________________ 
Phone:___________ Class: ________ _ 
~ooerwm~oo~~~6p.m.MoodQ.~~28 
ed, and you might see them freeze up a little bit. But they don't really feel pressure," De­Baets said. "In fact, we play better when we're under a little bit of pressure." 
Clay (25-2) has won seven straight games since a loss at Concord in the next-to-last game of the regular season. The only other loss for the Colonials was in early January at No. 8 Elkhart Central, a de­feat they avenged 67-58 in the tourney regionals. 
The stats seem to indicate Clay won't be a pushover. 
The Colonials are the best shooting team among the Final Four (.546) and are tops in re­bounds (36.8 per game). assists 
(21.1) and steals (13.0). 
They're averaging 75.3 points a game, second to Valpo's 77.8, and have size and scoring ca­pability with 6-foot-8 Lee Nailon at 20.1 points per game and 6-3 sophomore Jaraan Cornell at 16.5. 
The biggest weakness, maybe, sophomores in the state, and a is 63.4 percent shooting from couple juniors that really fit in the free throw line. coming off the bench and really 
"Our chemistry has brought help us." us this far," said DeBaets, who The game with New Albany, lost seven players -some who which was unbeaten and quit, others who were cut -ranked No. 1 until a loss in the from last year. "We have five final game of the regular sea­seniors who play very well to­son, will be Clay's second gether and a sophomore against a ranked opponent in (Cornell) who is one of the best the tournament. The Colonials 
How To CoPE WITH EvERYDAY STREss 
This week is National Collegiate Health and Wellness Week, brought to you by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. 
The problem of dealing with everyday stress is not like any other problem. In the case of smoking, excessive consumption of alcohol, obesity, and poor nutrition, the goal is to remove something from the lifestyle in order to achieve high,level wellness. 
Stress is different. It is impossible to eliminate stress from your lifestyle; nor can you remove yourself from stress. For this reason, high, level wellness is achieved by engag, ing in a plan that allows you to cope with everyday stress so as to minimize its impact on your life. Since the format used for the elimination of other negative lifestyles will not work for stress, we must have a plan designed exclusively for stress. 
Step Five: Learn about and experiment in order to determine the role of exercise and relax, ation techniques in coping with stress. 
Step Six: Establish an overall program schedule for dealing with stressors. 
Step Seven: Determine and write down a time schedule when you will be able to routinely cope with everyday stress. 
Step Eight: Visualize the mental picture of you completely free from the problems of stress. 
Additional Helpful Hints 
1 
) Work off stress: If you are angry or upset, try to let off steam physically. Play tennis, jog, go for a long walk. This gives you a "flight or fight" outlet for distress. 

2) 
Talk out worries: It helps to share worry with someone you trust and respect. Sometimes another person can provide a new perspective which is the very solution you need. 

3) 
Learn to accept things: If a problem is beyond control, learn to accept the consequences. Don't waste your time and energy to try and change those things that cannot be changed. 

4) 
Avoid selrmedication: Certain drugs, particularly alcohol, may seem momentarily helpful in eliminating distress. Avoid them completely. Often they are addicting and usually do nothing to reduce the distress. 

5) 
Get enough sleep: Sleep has a way of breaking the concentration-distress cycle. 

6) 
Balance work and play: Everyone needs a change of pace. Breaking the customary work-habit cycle with recreation can ease distress. 

7) 
Do something far others: Distress causes you to focus on yourself and your problems. Concentration on your problems only causes more distress. Attention directed to others minimizes distress. 

B) 
Take one thing at a time: A sure way to be overwhelmed by problems is to try to tackle all of them at one time. By dealing with them one at a time, you have a better chance of solving them. 

9) 
Give in once in a while: Admit and recognize when you are wrong and others are right. It is not a crime to be wrong. When you admit it, the distress will fly away. 


10) Make yourself available: Distress often leads to boredom or a feeling of being left out. Mix with people. Include yourself somewhere. 
Taken from: Whitmer's Guide to Total Wellness by R. William Whitmer. 
For more information, or assistance in dealing with stress, contact the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education (631,7970) or the University Counseling Center (631,7336). 
·~=============~====~===============~ 
beat Elkhart Central and Westview in the regional, then took out Manchester and Fort Wayne Dwenger last week in the semistate. 
"If New Albany beats us. it's probably because he's out­coached us," De Baets said of the Bulldogs' Jim Miller, the state's eighth-winningest coach of all time. 
~------------------------·~ 
~--~-~--~ -----~---------------·------~---­
Thursday, March 24, 1994 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
Magic naiiled coach of Lakers · 
By JOHN NADEL Associated Press 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. 
Magic Johnson returned to the NBA today, this time as coach of the struggling Los Angeles Lakers, the team he took to flve championships before retiring with the virus that causes AIDS. 
"Oh, man!" Johnson said. "Well, I'm happy to be back for however long it is going to be." 
Both Johnson and Lakers' general manager Jerry West indicated that Johnson's coach­ing tenure may be short. 
"Earvin Johnson will be the Lakers' coach for the re­mainder of the season," West said today at a news conference in the Forum. 
"Jerry Buss has always har­bored the desire for Magic Johnson to coach this team," West said about the Lakers' owner. 

''I'm just doing it for him," Johnson said about Buss. 
Johnson, who retired on Nov. 7, 1991, after being diagnosed as HIV-positive, said he was healthy enough to handle the rigors of the job. 
''I'm fme," he said. ''I'm great ... If something was wrong I wouldn't be doing this. 
"This is not even close to playing basketball," he said.. "It's a different type of energy. Playing basketball, to me, is more stressful than coaching." 
Johnson, one of the most pop­ular players in the history of the league, will try to revive a franchise that likely will miss the playoffs for the first time since 1975-76. 
The team is just 27-37 and in fifth place in the Pacific Division. 
With 18 games remaining, the Lakers trail Denver by 5 1-2 games for the final Western Conference playoff spot. 
Johnson, 34, replaces Randy Pfund, who earlier this month signed a one-year contract extension with the team through the 1995-96 season. 
Johnson's flrst game as coach will come Sunday night at home against the Milwaukee Bucks. Assistant Bill Bertka will coach the Lakers the next two games. 
Asked whether he would return as a player, Johnson said, ''I'm retired. Let's .leave it at that." 
The Forum was a hopping place while Johnson was help­ing the team to eight of the 10 NBA fmals in the 1980's. It was the home of Showtime with packed houses, exiting teams and celebrities such as Jack Nicholson and Dyan Cannon on hand. 
HELP WORLD HUNGER COALITION WITH 
EASTER FOOD BASKETS! 
MONDAY, MARCH 28 AT STEPAN CENTER 
2:00-4:00 PM ASSEMBLE 4:00-7:00PM DISTRIBUTE 


:t~¢ 
~ Speaks for Itself ~ CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
9 Month -10 Month -12 Month Leases FURNISHED APARTMENTS, ALL UTILITIES COVERED, CENTRAL AIR Wide open spaces, well appointed apartments. Indoor Pool & Jacuzzi. Sports activity area. Weight machine, 24 Hour Laundry. 
STUDENT ACCOMODATION AND CARE AT AFFORDABLE PRICES. WE TAKE SECURilY AND SAFElY SERIOUSLY. 
Visit Our Office and Meet Our Staff Call Dorene NOW 
272--1441 
Cal's golden boy new Kidd on NBA block 
By WENDY E. LANE 
Associated Press 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
Jason Kidd, California's daz­zling point guard, said Wednesday he will forego his flnal two years of college eligi­bility and enter the NBA draft. 
Kidd, who announced the decision on his 21st birthday, is projected to be taken as high as No. 2 in the J4ne 29 draft. 
The 6-foot-4 sophomore All­American is the flrst collegiate underclassman to declare for the draft. 
After leading Cal to 21-and 22-win seasons, Kidd leaves with his goal of taking the Golden Bears to the Final Four unfulfllled. 
"I feel sad inside in a way because I haven't flnished my mission at Cal and that was to go to the Final Four," said Kidd, who attended a news conference with his parents and two sisters. "I know there's a lot of things I have to learn but I know in time I can be successful." 
His flnal college game was a 4-for-17 effort in Cal's upset loss to Wisconsin-Green Bay in the first round of the NCAA tournament. Immediately after 

~ E,N 
~r 
the game, Kidd spoke of stick­
ing around for at least another 
year. 
But less than a week later, he 
did what he was expected to 
do all along. 
Kidd and his coach Todd 
Bozeman broke down in tears 
and hugged each other after 
Wednesday's announcement. 
"Today is a day of mixed 
emotions," Bozeman said. 
"I'm happy because Jason is 
able to fulfill his dream of tak­
ing the next step to the NBA. 
He has my total blessing. I 
think he's ready to accept the 
challenge of everything's that 
out before him." 
Kidd, who said he would like 
to play for the Los Angeles 
Lakers and their new coach, 
Magic Johnson, said the deci­
sion to turn pro was difficult. 
"It made it even harder 
because of coach Bozeman 
and us being so close," he 
said. 
One influence in the decision 
was his friend Chris Webber, 
who left Michigan after his 
sophomore year, was picked 
first in the last year's draft, 
and signed a contract worth 
$74 million with the Golden 
State Warriors. Another factor 
was the impending NBA rookie . salary cap. 
Don't forget to wish 
Beth Cathcart 
a Happy Birthday 
Love, The Lewis Chicks 
ESp~ 
.,~ 
~Spanish Mass~ 
Palm Sunday 
domingo, 2 7Marzo 1994 
11:30 a.m. Breen..Phillips 
Celebrante Padre Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Todos Estan lnvitados All Are Welcome 

0MPUS 
tv11NISTRY 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 24, 1994 
Blues skate past Sabres, Ottawa downs Detroit 
By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 
Curtis Joseph stopped 27 shots and Igor Korolev scored the game-winning goal for St. Louis on Wednesday night to lead the Blues to a 3-2 victory over Buffalo. 
Petr Nedved and Vitali Prokhorov also scored for the Blues. 
Derek Plante scored early for the Sabres, and Yuri Khmylev brought Buffalo within one with 
3:00 left. 
The Sabres pulled goaltender Dominik Hasek with just over a minute to go, but didn't get off a shot. 
The Blues moved into fifth place in the West, one point ahead of idle Chicago. The Sabres dropped to 1-1 on their six-game homestand and remained one point behind Boston in the Eastern Conference. 
Buffalo, which entered the game with the best home power-play percentage in the league, was just 1-for-7. Hasek, with the league's best goals­against average, made 15 saves. 
Plante opened the scoring with a power-play goal 2:40 into the game, slapping in Ken Sutton's rebound. St. Louis didn't register a shot on goal in the first nine minutes and had only two before Petr Nedved scored on his own rebound at 15:57. 
In the second, Prokhorov scored his 13th. Tom Tilley fed him from the top of the left cir­cle and Prokhorov had an open shot from the left post. 
The Sabres had plenty of chances. In the first period, Alexander Mogilny's shot bounced off the left post and trickled across the crease, com­ing to a stop inches from the goal line before Doug Crossman dove over Joseph to swipe it away. 
With 7:10 left in the game, Brad May took a pass at the left post and tried to put it past Joseph high on the glove side. But Joseph reached up to knock it away. 
With 4:10 left, Sutton was left alone in the slot but put it off Joseph's pads. 
Senators 5, Red Wings 4 
Rookie Alexei Yashin com­pleted a three-goal Ottawa comeback to give the Senators a 5-4 win over the Detroit Red Wings on Wednesday night. 
Goaltender Bob Essensa took his fourth consecutive loss since a trade sent the former Winnipeg Jet to Detroit on March 8. 
Ottawa, the NHL's worst team, beat one of the NHL's best despite being outshot 41-15. 
Craig Billington shone in the Senators' net, making 37 saves. 
Yashin capped a four-goal Ottawa third period when he slammed a shot past Essensa from close range with 1:16 remaining in regulation time. It was the third straight Senator goal in a span of less than five minutes and gave Ottawa just its 12th win in 7 4 games this season. 

Detroit showed little of its cus­tomary finish against the league's most porous defense. Micah Aivazoff scored twice for the Red Wings and Martin Lapointe and Keith Primeau added a goal apiece. 
Canadian Olympian Derek Mayer scored his first two NHL goals for Ottawa and Eugene Davydov added one. 
The Senators, just off an 18­day road trip that saw them lose seven of eight games while being outscored 44-11, dressed six new players unfamiliar to the capacity Civic Centre crowd of 10,575. At one point early in the game, four of five Senators on the ice were playing their first game Of! home ice and all five skaters were new to the team in 1994. 
Detroit outshot Ottawa 14-5 in the opening period but came away with a 1-1 tie. 
Lapointe scored for Detroit on a power-play deflection at 
16:24 following a giveaway by Mayer, but the young Senator defenseman made amends before the period ended by bat­ting a loose puck past Essensa. 
Aivazoff and Primeau padded Detroit's lead with goals late in the second period. 
Sophomore Accounting Majors Student Government Needs You As 1994-95 Assistant Student Body Treasurer. Aid The Student Body Treasurer In Disbursement Of Funds for: Student Government Student Union Board Clubs and Organizations Classes Halls Become involved • Get experience • Meet people This position is in preparation for your becoming Student Body Treasurer the following year. Applications are available in the Treasurer's office, 2nd floor LaFortune Due Monday, March 28 by 4 p.m. Questions, contact Sally Oelerich at 631-7 417.  

Thursday, March 24, 1994 The Observer • NCAA TOURNAMENT page 17 
March Madness offers incredible matchups 
Gators want more than memories 
By FRED GOODALL 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
The best record in school his­tory and a trip to the final 16 have only made Florida hungry for more success. 
Coach Lon Kruger's Gators, a newcomer to the NCAA tourna­ment, insists it won't take a "we've had a great season, it's good to be here" attitude into its East regional semifinal against secind-seeded Connecticut. 
"This team hasn't reacted like that at any time," Kruger said, playing down the possibility of a letdown in Friday night's game in Miami. 
"They didn't when they won 20 games. They didn't when they realized they were in the NCAA tournament. They didn't in the postseason (Southeastern) tournament. This group has been more con­sistent in preparation, aware­ness and concentration than any group I've ever been around." 
Under Kruger, who took over a program that hit rock bottom during the NCAA investigation that cost former coach Norm Sloan his job four years ago, the Gators have climbed to heights thought to be unreach­able for a team that lacks bas­ketball tradition and has no real star player. 
Guards Dan Cross and Craig Brown have been a major part of the team's success, but the two of them average only 30.7 points per game. Forwards Dametri Hill and Andrew DeClercq, the other players who have started each of Florida's 34 games, average 
12.7 rebounds between them. 
Kruger bristles, however, at the suggestion that the 14th­ranked Gators (27-7) are over­achievers who have been riding an unbelievable string of good fortune. The team is the win­ningest in school history, fin­ished as co-champions of the SEC East after being picked fourth in a preseason media poll, and is in the NCAA tourna­
ment for the first time since 
1 ?.~· some point. whether or not you're a good basketball player has to be determined by results," the coach, who finds the overachieving label demeaning, said. "You can measure Dan Cross and Craig Brown up against the high school All-Americans ... and I imagine their results right now are better than 80 percent of those All-Americans. So who is the better bask.etball play­er?" If Kruger had to compare Connecticut to any of Florida's opponents this season, it would be Arkansas and Kentucky. The Gators lost three of four games against those teams, but pushed the Razorbacks and Wildcats each time. 
"Connecticut is a very tal­ented team," Brown said. "We just have to approach this game the way we've approached the others. The manner we've pre­pared each time out is the key to the success we've had." 
Jayhawks not afraid to snap at Big Dog, Purdue 
By TERESA M. WALKER 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 
You don't have to convince Kansas coach Roy Williams that there's more to Purdue than Glenn Robinson. 
"Glenn Robinson gets all the attention, and I've added it up," Williams said Wednesday. 
"Glenn Robinson averages 30 points, they average 85, so somebody else gets 55 points. We realize it's going to be a challenge, but when it gets down to 16 teams, it should be hard." 
No. 4 seed Kansas (27 -7) faces top-seeded Purdue (28-4) Thursday night in the Southeast Region's semifinals of the NCAA tournament. The teams tip off a half hour after the end of the Duke-Marquette game, which starts at 7:38p.m. EST. 
The 6-foot-8 Robinson posts numbers that grab attention ­30.3 points as the country's leading scorer and 10 rebounds a game. He is a first-team All America and a player of the year candidate. 
"Well, he is an extremely tal­ented player in my opinion, ·· maybe the best player over the last three or four years," Williams said. 
"He can shoot the three, he can post up inside, but again, it'~ Kansas' team playing against Purdue's team. Personally. I hope he gets 55 and that we get one more than Purdue's team." 
:­
Purdue backs up Robinson with forward Cuonzo Martin (16 points a game and a 44 percent 3-point shooter) and guard Matt Waddell (11.3). 
Steve Woodberry, the Jay­hawks' leading scorer at 15.5 points a game, said Kansas will have to shut down Martin in addition to worrying about Robinson. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Into the quiet 
Note: For the first four days of spring break, thirty Notre Dame Students decided to step off the beaten track and visit the Abbey of Gethsemani for a different kind of vacation experience. In this week's "Considerations," we'd like to share three perspectives with you about this distinctive retreat experience at a Trappist monastery in the foothills of Kentucky: 
Approaching the week: 
Before spring break, my roommates and I joked around concerning our different trips. Two of us were headed to Key West, and two to the Abbey of Gethsemani. As you can imagine, we had many laughs about these different 
itineraries. Kate and I (who were going to the monastery) joked that we hoped they would have fun in that "den of iniquity." We teased them, "Enjoy your stay in Sodom and Gomorrah-just get out before the Lord takes the city!" They of course bantered back about the stimulating dialogue we would have on our "silent retreat" and whether we had our white robes and birkenstocks ready. Through humor we created a divide between our anticipated experiences which was funny -yet inaccurate. Listening to the monks chant the psalms, I was repeatedly struck by their passion. They sang of a Lord who "longs" for us to return. They prayed to be faithful to this relationship with a God who loves all of creation. I imagine what they feel and long for is not very different from what the folks in Key West and elsewhere are all seeking. Fr. John Dunne speaks about our deepest human yearning to be loved and to be known. We also desire to love and to know. We are all searching and questioning. Our lives may be lived in many directions and our journeys may take us to opposite lands. Nevertheless, beneath the external differences, I suspect we share infinite common denominators. May we search with hope this Lent to find what we are looking for. 
Katie D. Bergin 
During the week: 
When we arrived at Gethsemani, we noticed the sign over the courtyard that stated "God Alone." These two simple words encompass the life of these Trappist monks. Living a simple life in order to lead them to God, they create a balance in their lives between the community common prayers or "offices," individual prayer, and work, making cheese and fruitcake to support 
themselves. When we stepped through that door we left behind us the world of created human noise: the TV, traffic, radio, time scheduling, and trivial talking. Too often we get caught in the external world and forget about our internal one. The outside world concentrates heavily on interacting with others, causing us to forget about our relationships with ourselves and God. J?eing here in the monk's contemplative realm helped us focus on ourselves and God and showed us how equally important (if not more so) these relationships are. Many insights were gained not just in contemplation but through the scheduled talks, wandering through acres of pine trees as well as listening to simple rhythms of the Gregorian chants of the monks. Hopefully, if no other insight 
was gained, at least by looking at the monks' example we came away with a sense that we need a balance in our daily lives, not just spending time working on relationships with others but with ourselves and especially God. 
Rejane Cytacki 
After the week... It was difficult to leave our newfound sanctuary and return to the deafening calls of our noisy and restless daily lives. Our few days at Gethsemani were well spent. We prayed, spoke little, walked and thought. All of our impressions of Gethsemani were different. However, I think that the drastic 
change from noisy dorm rooms and crowded lecture halls to calm, serene, and open solitude struck us all the most. Gethsemani redefined the words peaceful, calm, and serene for many of us. We all found different things, but most of all we felt our inner spirits quiet in the presence of God. We all learned varied lessons from the heart, mind and soul, and were blessed with many gifts during our hours at the Abbey. We were given a peace and hope to implement our 
· newfound serenity into our daily lives. Michele Lichtenberger 
Campus Ministry wiU once again sponsor a retreat to the Abbey of Gethsemani next year during spring break, partly based on the success and strong student approval of last week's journey. If you 'd like to go next year, keep your eyes open for details toward the end of thefall semester. And to all the students who went, thanks from aU of us for a terrific experience. 
·Steve Warner, Campus Ministry 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. March 26 5:00p.m. Rev. Robert Moss, C.S.C. 
Sun. March 2 7 10:00 a.m. Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. 
12:00 noon Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C 

.-· 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
PROCESSION Mark 11: 1.. 10 1ST READING Isaiah 50: 4..7 2ND READING Philippians 2: 6.. 11 GosPEL Mark 14: 1.. 15:47 
~-------------­ 
page 18  The Observer • SPORTS  Thursday, March 24, 1994  
Belles win Tuesday By KELLY WESTER Sports Writer The Saint Mary's Belles were victorious over Wheaton on Tuesday, winning 26-5 in the frrst game and 6-5 in the second game of a double header. During the first game, the Belles were able to hit the ball well. Wheaton changed pitchers three times during the game. The second game ended in the fifth inning on account of darkness. "We played good defense in the second game, but we· need to work on consistent  Fencing continued from page 20 match. Junior Rakesh Patehad to fence Air Force's No. seed with a hoard of people looking on. The national championship on the line. "I like to feed ofT the crowd'energy," commented Patel. "It helps to give me more adrena­line." Patel used the energy to take a 4-3 lead and put the winner's bracket within one touch. However, instead of getting the necessary double-touch to close out the match, Patel was hit, tying the bout at four. "I couldn't watch," said Wozniak. "I was waiting for him to go and make the mistake, but in as his opponent went to hit Not only was a team effhim. displayed at Brandeis, but tWith that touch, the Irish side­Irish also brought home thrline exploded in a jubilant cele­All-American awards as fresbration that soon won't be for­man foilist Jeremy Siek wl gotten. named to the second tea3 "I was just a split-second while sabre captain Chris Hfaster," concluded Patel. jnik and Patel each receiv"This team has a special spirit third team honors. all their own," said women's "It would have been nice head coach Yves Auriol. "We make the first team, but, hes did what we had to do, but we I'm only a freshman and haalso won with class." three more years," said Siek. The Irish then went on to of­Siek also heard a revelation ficially clinch the title with a 5­the beginning of the year fro1 triumph over Wayne State in Hajnik, one that most membethe semi-fmals to end their sto­of the team might not harybook season the way all believed at first. happy stories end. "Chris told me that we we'"It was the greatest feeling to going to win the NCAA chamsee everyone so happy and cel­onship at the start of the yeaebrating," commented Woz­said Siek. "At first, I was a lniak. tle skeptical, but when I sa"We did it for the love of the the team's progression sport," added Garcia. "The throughout the year, I believ­whole team watched every we could do it."  ort Hajnik also managed to share he this special vision with coach ee DeCicco in a letter he sent to h­him over the summer. as "I just felt that we had a great m, chance," said Hajnik. "In my a­short fencing career, I have ed learned that it is mostly a mind game, and if you have the con­to fidence to perform well, things y, will work out for the best." ve "Penn State is heads and shoulders above us in talent, at but we were the most consis­m tent team there," added Hajnik. rs In being consistent the Irish ve reached their goal of placing all four of their teams in the top re four which proved to be the dif­pi­ference. r," "I like to call it a Cinderella it­story," said sophomore foilist w Mindi Kalogera. And as the Irish rushed the ed mat after Patel's victory, the glass slipper finally fit.  

play. 
"We played well in the frrst game, but we let down a little in the next game. We didn't go out there with the same intensity," said Murphy. 
"Our biggest challenges lie ahead, as our schedule is ftlled with some tough teams. We haven't yet played against any teams that are as tough as the ones we'll encounter in Florida." 
The Belles will square ofT with Goshen this afternoon at 3 p.m. in a double header as they look to improve on their record of 11-3. 
As it has been all season, defense will be an important part of the game for the Belles. 
"We have been looking con­sistent during practice this week and we've been work­ing on improving our defense and batting skills," continued Murphy. · 
stead, I was the one who made the mistake and he capital­ized," added Patel. 
Now it was 4-4 and Patel de­cided to make the next move as he drove his blade between the opponent's arm and his body. Quickly, Patel recovered and got the touch on the waist, just squad when they were compet­ing. The support we gave each other was outstanding." 
"So many little things had to fall into place for us to win," said Lester. "Whatever we needed to, we pulled together as a team and got the job done." 
For better health ard fitness, exercise. 
.. 
VAmerican HeartAssociation 
Stay at ~~----for Graduation ~ llti.IJW 1994! a1 SAII'IT MARY'S *Now Available* 
• 
Kings, Doubles, and Suites • 2 Night minimum (May 13-14, 1994) 

• 
Advanced Deposits Required 


For reservations call: 1..8QQ..94 7 ..862 7 or: 1-219-232-4000 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
NOTRE DAME LACROSSE 
NOTRE DAME VS. HOFSTRA 
SATURDAY 2p.m. CARTIER FIELD 
FREE ADMISSION 
Sign up for your chance to win a Holiday Inn Escape Weekend at the game! 
College Parl1 Condominiums Rental Units Now Available 
• 
1/4 Mile from Library 

• 
Brand Ne\N Appliances 

•2 
Bedrooms • 2 Bathrooms 


•Washer 
& Dryer Units 

• 
Large Closets 

• 
Covered Parking 

• 
Security System 


• Large Balconies 
272-0691 
Going Quickly • $660 per month 
Thursday, March 24, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
SPELUNKER 
~OUR RDBoiDoVBl£ 15 A PE.RFEGI SPY, SKIP. 
I. CAN KE8' H'l f;'{t; 
ON '{OOR FRIEND:> ItS M'i DIABOUCAL PL!IoN ltH'bLD'S. 
CAL YIN AND HOBBES 
EWWW .' W\-\r>-1'5 T\-\\'5, SOMET\\\t{G SC.RP--I>£D O~r 11-\E \30TTClM Or BooTS?.:> 
I'M NOT EATING \1.' 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
OH, gEAW/ ,SKIP? AND 
HA-T MAKES Yo.J TlliNK 
ANYON£ WILL NOTICe 
ANOTHER ST1Ff, DULL 
MALE. ON N()Tl?t:
DAM£~ CA r1l'I.Y./ 


BILL WATTERSON 
CALIJIN, l Mf>IDE 11-\\~ LP..'ST WEt\( At-It> ~0\l SAil> IT WA'S YCAJR ~(;.IJORITE t-1\UL or A~L 
·T-: 
T\t-1\E Al'-ll:l iO\l W\5\-\E\) WE CO\lL\) \-\1\'IE \T EVER'{ 'i)l\'( FOR TI1E RES\ Or '{0\JR l\It.' 
\ 
"Ok, Johnson -we've got a deal. We'll let your people and my people work out the details." 
OF INTEREST 







. 
SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, March 20, 1994 
Peterson finds a place among nation's finest 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame swimmer Jesslyn 
Peterson was 
home in 
Apopica, FL 
over spring 
break, enjoy­
ing the sun­
shine like any 
other stu­
dent. Until she received the phone call that she had believed im-

probable. 
Plans for relaxation and a tan were put on hold, as Peterson returned to the pool upon hear­ing she had qualified for the NCAA championships in Indianapolis held March 17-19. 
"I didn't find out about the meet until a week before," ex­plained Peterson. "The deci­sions on qualifiers aren't made until the end of the season." 
Following a hectic week of re­sumed training, Peterson, the only Irish swimmer to qualify for the championships, com­peted in the 200 Individual Medley and the 400 IM. 
Her time of 2:05.43 in the shorter race earned her a 36th place finish out of 46 swim­mers, while her 4:25.69 show­ing in the 400 earned her 32nd out of 39. 
"Jesslyn's performance fit her progression perfectly," stated assistant coach Randy Julian. "She barely missed qualifying last year, and this year she swam her lifetime best to earn a spot, and then swam one of her top three or four best times in the actual meet." 
While her performance in the meet was definitely credible, Peterson viewed just earning the chance to compete as her greatest accomplishment. 
"I was happy to have per­formed better in the NCAAs than in the conference meet," she said. "Actually, though, getting into the meet was the biggest thing in my mind. The NCAA has changed the selec­tion process to make it stricter, so I was excited to compete with the top swimmers in the country." 
The NCAAs are considered one of the top events in ama-

Intensity of moment remembered 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
As the Notre Dame fencing team watched their national championship hopes dangle, many things ran through each fencer's mind. 
"I was thinking this is going to decide the national champi­onship," said senior epee cap­tain Greg Wozniak, who could only watch helplessly after having done his part. 
"I had butterflies in my stom­ach, I was so nervous," said sophomore foilist Claudette De Bruin. 
The crucial bouts took place in the last round of the pool competition as the Irish were trying to qualify for the win­ner's bracket in order to place three spots above Penn State which had a 275 point lead go­ing into the men's epee compe­tition. The Nittany Lions had already dropped into the loser's bracket on a tie-break­er, giving Notre Dame the ray of light they were looking for. 
Needing to capitalize on this opportunity, the Irish had to dispose of an Air Force squad which had already beaten them during the regular sea­son. Things looked bleak as the team trailed 4-2 with Wozniak next up against Air Force's top seed. 
"It was really tense," said freshman sabreman Bill Lester. 
Wozniak found himself at 4­4, but managed to pull out the victory 5-4, leaving the burden with senior Rian Girard to keep the Irish's hopes alive. Girard also took the No. 2 seed to 4-4, but like Wozniak, got the crucial touch to win the match 5-4. 
"That match was the epitome of our team efforts all year long," commented senior foil captain Didi Garcia. 
It came down to the final 
see FENCING I page 18 
teur swimming, ranking just behind the Olympic trials in prestige. The recent champi­onships had their share of elite swimmers, as Olympians Nicole Haizlett from the University of Florida arid Jenny Thompson from eventual winner Stanford paced the field. 
"It was a great experience to make the championships," ex­plained Peterson. "Knowing that I can compete with such talented swimmers is definitely a confidence builder." 
see NCAA I page 13 
Spikers beat MSU 
By G.R. NELSON Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's vol­leyball team obtained its biggest victory in four years by defeating Michigan State 15­11, 15-13, 15-8 Tuesday night in East Lansing. 
The Irish (12-2) played their strongest match of the year. It 
. was necessary to end their four year losing slide to the rival Spartans. The team, and especially captain Brian Ceponis, came out ready to play from the beginning. "(Our spikes) set the tone early in the game for us," said Ceponis, who had a team high sixteen kills, seven in the first game. Ceponis had plenty of help. Setter Chris Fry played spec­taculary on offense and also came up big on defense with several key blocks. "Because I was so pumped up," said Fry, "I got a little higher than usual." Sophomore Miguel Ascencio also continued to raise his level of play. He contributed thir­teen kills to the Irish attack, seven in a come from behind second game victory. Ascencio refused to take any personal credit, calling the victory "a total team effort." He was right. Matt Strottman, despite an ailing knee, had seven kills. Senior outside hitters Leo Casas and Tom Kovats also chipped in with six and five kills. Coach Jennifer Slosar was also in top form, calling a cru­cial timeout in game three when it appeared that momen­tum might be slipping away from the Notre Dame. Notre Dame made every play and took advantage of every opportunity in routing Michigan State. "We made them pay for their mistakes," summarized Ceponis. "And then we used great passing to utilize all of our offensive weapons." And the Irish had just too many weapons for the Spar­tans. 


