
''' 


SMC poised to examine future development and improvement 

Airborne 
Dillon Hall senior Robert "Pancho" Escalera rollerblades off a ramp between the Law School and Cushing Hall while Jose Ramirez watches. Many Notre Dame students took advantage of the un­seasonably warm weekend weather by spending time outdoors. 
Team to evaluate mission achievement of University 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
In order to critically evalu~te the University of Notre Dame's success in achieving its mission and educating its students, a reaccreditation team from the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools (NCA) will be on campus today through Wednesday. 
"A group of experienced fac­ulty and administrators come and look at a whole range of things. The great majority of things are in academics, "said Father Oliver Williams, associ­ate provost and coordinator of 
Editor's note: The following is the first in a five-part series examining the issues that face Saint Mary's as it celebrates it's 150th year and looks to the future. 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Saint Mary's Editor 
As Saint Mary's launches into a year-long celebration of 150 years since its founding, it also enters a year where defining the future of the College and the paths it will take is crucial. 
Setting forth themes of "Hon­oring Tradition, Pioneering Change", engineering a new form of governance for the Col­lege, and revealing a two-year the visit. 
"In Notre Dame's case, there is no doubt we will be accred­ited," he continued. 
This evaluation marks ten years since the last accredita­tion visit by the NCA. The NCA's reaccreditation process requires that the university conduct a self-study before the visit, which Williams and an as­sessment committee have been preparing for two years. In ad­dition to studying the academic life of a university, the NCA also evaluates its mission, stu­dent life, athletics, university 
see NCA/ page 6 
long-range planning report are 
the ways in which Saint Mary's 
will continue to examine it's 
future path. 
"As an academic institution 
we are constantly improving on . ways to do what we do best, provide a superior education for women," said College 
President William Hickey. 
In order to do this, goals must 
be explored and developed by 
the entire College community, 
according to Hickey. 
Defining these goals was a 
major task of the Long Range 
Planning Committee (LRPC) 
appointed two years ago by 
Hickey to study the current sta­
tus of the College arid set forth 
recommendations to lead Saint 
Deadline passes without airstrikes 
By ROBERT REID 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia­
Herzegovina 
Bosnian Serbs pulled back enough heavy guns from snowy hills around Sarajevo to stave off immediate air strikes as a NATO deadline for removal passed early Monday. 
But the Western alliance warned that any movement of weapons back toward Sarajevo or attacks on the battered Bosnian capital would bring re­taliation from NATO. 
Bosnia's Muslim president, Alija Izetbegovic, earlier urged NATO to go into combat for the first time in its history and bomb Serb guns that remained around Sarajevo. 
But Yasushi Akashi, the U.N.'s senior official in former Yugoslavia charged with mak­ing the call on air strikes, said he saw no immediate need. 
"I have decided that it is not necessary at this stage for me to request NATO to use air power," Akashi ·said in a state­ment released at his Zagreb, Croatia, headquarters. 
"I am satisfied we have achieved effective compliance with the requirement to remove or place under UNPROFOR 
(U.N. peacekeepers') control all heavy weapons within the 20 kilometer (12-mile) exclusion zone," Akashi's statement said. 
NATO, after noorly two years of painful debate over whether to get involved in Bosnia's war, had demanded all heavy weapons pull back that dis­tance from Sarajevo or be placed under U.N. control. Otherwise it would launch air strikes. 
NATO Secretary General Manfred Woerner said Monday the alliance will follow U.N. recommendations not to use air power "at this stage" in Bosnia. 
Woerner, speaking at alliance headquarters in Brussels, said he had agreed in telephone calls with President Clinton to keep the threat of air strikes intact in case weapons were moved back toward Sarajevo or the city was attacked. 
As the midnight GMT (7 p.m. EST) Sunday deadline passed, the roar of a solitary jet could be heard in misty skies. A C­130 which has been flying over on nightly surveillance also droned through the skies. 

ON THE 
ISSUES 
Part 1of 5 
Mary's into the year 2000 and beyond. 
Chaired by Donald Horning, chair of the department of so­ciology, anthropology and social work, the LRPC will resubmit their report to the Board of Re­gents for approval at the April meeting. 
The committee's report is currently undergoing cost and priority analysis by the Faculty Assembly which the Board of 
saw Russian songs on troops join the U.N. peacekeep­looking Sarajevo. ing force in a gesture that en­On the roads around Trebe­couraged Serbian compliance, vic, last-minute movements of skies cleared Sunday for the trucks hatlling guns could be first time after days of snowy seen. weather. A group of drunken Serb sol­
Before the deadline, the U.N. diers -carrying shoulder­commander for Bosnia said the launched anti-aircraft missiles situation remained unclear at -were stopping cars, greeting nine of 41 Serb gun sites the occupants with the tradi­around Sarajevo which U.N. tional three-finger Serbian soldiers have not yet visited. salute. 
Bosnian Serbs spent Sunday "We invite everybody to join night by campfires, roasting us here. If they bomb we will oxen and lambs, drinking fight back. Nobody can kill us brandy and singing nationalist 
see YUGO/ page 4 
Regents requested after the proposal was formally consid­ered for the first time last Octo­ber. 
Along with the LRPC goals, Saint Mary's is examining what it will mean for the College to be sponsored by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, but no longer run by the Order when the new form of governance will incor­porate the College as a separate entity. 
"One area we are looking at very seriously is the definition of sponsorship by the Sisters of the Holy Cross," Hickey said. "(We're) looking at in what new ways might the Congregation and the College be relating to one another, how to strengthen that relationship and how to remain committed to Saint Mary's as a Catholic college for women." 
The new plan for governance, which will be officially an­nounced on Wednesday, grants the laity more power in govern­ing the College by forming a single Board of Trustees and decreasing the required num­ber of sisters who sit on the Board. 
While the new plan of gover­nance will cause the College to examine its Catholic character, Saint Mary's is also discussing a number of issues that are af­fecting many private Colleges, including how to increase di­
see SMC/ page 6 
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, February 21, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN 
JPW: More than a party with your parents 
Beforehand, Junior·-------­Parents Weekend looked like it was going to be 
Freshman Orientation all over again. Questions like: "Where are you from?" or "What dorm do you live in?" were replaced with similar small talk that 

regarded the nice weath­
Jake Peters 
er and "How did they Photo Editor 
cook and serve all that food at once?" 
While my expectations -------­about the small talk were painfully proven true, I began to notice similarities with the juniors and their parents. It was nice to see that your friend's strange twitches and quirks were from his father, and not a result of dining hall food. Yet those similarities between parents and their children ran deeper than just superficial char­acteristics. They possessed the same attitudes, shared the same work ethic, and generally shared a common perspective. 
I always thought the "Notre Dame family" line was such a cliche, but when I saw over 1800 families just being families I realized that there was something more to this. I guess what was so striking about the whole thing was how each generation passed along those traits uniquely characteristic to the next. There's a common denominator with all of these families that is precisely that unique characteristic -tha·t enigma of life that must make parenthood such an intriguing possibility. 
The fact is most of us probably would not be here today if our parents didn't respect the power of this common denominator. We owe a lot to our parents, and it's not just because they have provided us with the mental and financial support necessary to attend this university. Our parents have sacrificed many of their own goals and personal well-being to help ourselves become not only more successful, but the peo­ple we were ultimately destined to be. 
Now that this foundation has been laid, it is up to ourselves, as individuals, to build upon what our parents have left us. What our parents have given us is potential that we must fine tune and personalize to suit the needs of our own goals. Notre Dame represents the decision that you, and maybe your parents, made to materialize those goals. 
Junior Parents Weekend occurs at a time when we are acutely aware of our own goals and our parents are still in touch with their goals for us, too. 
Junior year is a period when our goals have yet to be bogged down with reality and is also a time of optimism for what the future holds for us. In essence, this weekend has solidified the past and has provided us with a springboard to propel us into senior year and beyond. At the same time, it is also a period in which we can reflect upon our accomplishments and improve upon our deficiencies. 
Notre Dame has given us Junior Parents Weekend to use as a reference point-to look to the future while also giving us a chance to thank our parents for the love and support they have given us. 
What our parents have done for us is impossi­ble to repay. The gift we have received from our parents can only be fully reciprocated by some day giving the same to our own children. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. · 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production 
Michael O'Hara Whitney Sheets Kate Crisham Jackie Moser Sports Accent 
Tim Sherman Nora Buckley 
Matt Carbone Tanya Krywaruczenko 
Viewpoint 
Suzy Fry Graphics
Lab Tech Scott Mendenhall Chris W eirup 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
ATION AT AGLANCE 
Poll shows support for Church 
LOS ANGELES 
A large majority of Roman Catholic priests and nuns in 
this country agree with the church's opposition to abor­
tion and homosexual behavior and would renew their 
vows, according to a poll published Sunday. 
But about half of those surveyed dispute Vatican ' teachings on priest celibacy and its opposition to birth 
control and the ordination of women, the Los Angeles 
Times Poll found. 
Eighty-seven percent of priests and 88 percent of nuns 
surveyed said they would renew their vows. While 59 
percent of priests said the church should ordain married 
priests, only 15 percent said they would marry if they 
could. 
Forty-four percent of priests and 57 percent of nuns 
favor ordaining women, although 89 percent of nuns said 
they wouldn't seek ordination themselves. 
Pope John Paul Il's performance garnered approval 
from 7 4 percent of priests and 70 percent of nuns in the 
poll. 
Ninety-one percent of priests and 79 percent of nuns 
consi.dered abortion always or often a sin, and 80 percent 
of pnests and 72 percent of nuns said they would oppose 
church-sanctioned marriages between homosexuals. 
Forty-four percent of priests and nuns said birth con­
trol is seldom or never a sin. 
Fifty-eight percent of priests and 65 percent of nuns 
said Catholics may disagree with some church teachings 
and still be considered faithful. Twenty-one percent of 
priests said they frequently offer advice to Catholics that 
conflicts with church teaching, the poll found. 
Farrakhan Sees Jewish 'Conspiracy' 
NEW YORK 
Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan told an interviewer that he sees a Jewish media conspiracy to destroy him, and said that although the Holocaust was wrong, blacks have suf­fered one "100 times worse" than the Jews. In an interview shown Saturday night on Black Entertainment Television, Farrakhan spoke of the 

media's response to a full-page ad in The New York Times bought by the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith. The ADL took out the ad last month to publicize and denounce an anti-Semitic speech made by a Farrakhan aide at Kean College in New Jersey. The ad prompted news stories about the speech and pressure on Farrakhan to repudiate the aide, Khalid Abdul Muhammad. Farrakhan condemned Muhammad's state­ments as "repugnant" and removed him from his job as national assistant. But he declined to denounce "truths" he said Muhammad spoke about the Jewish role in the slave trade. 
Crowd upset when Michael fails to sing 
Michael Jackson fans who paid up to $1,000 a ticket cheered for five minutes when their hero appeared, but booed when he refused to perform solo. "I would pay $10,000, take out a loan, to see Michael perform," said a disappointed Carla Davenport of Pacifica, Calif., one of the 12,000 fans who attended Saturday night's "Jackson Family Honors." "We still love Michael to death, we're just disappointed he didn't perform," said her daughter, Lori. "All we wanted was one song." Jackson did per­form one song, but not alone. He joined his siblings for the show's 5-minute finale, "If You Only Believe." The crowd cheered loudly when he sang solo one phrase con­sisting of several words. It opened an hour late as the fans, who paid $50 to $1,000, laboriously filed through metal detectors. The first two hours consisted of a half­dozen Michael Jackson videos and live performances by his siblings and their offspring. 
INDIANA Weather 
Monday,Feb.21 
Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Via Associated Prsss Graph/csNet 01994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 


THEY SAID IT••• 
Here's what American Roman Catholic priests and nuns said in a recent poll about the church and its positions. 
llJ Priests (2,087) Ill Nuns (1 ,049) Percentage who would renew their vows: 
Percentage in favor of ordaining women: I (':•i,!iM!j:!i'Wi!WiiijH !iff ••. 144% 
Graphic by Chris Weirup 
Pavarotti gives recital at the Met 
NEW YORK 
Tenor Luciano Pavarotti returned to the Metropolitan Opera, where he has sung more often than on any other stage, for a beautiful recital on Sunday. With the excel­lent pianist and accompanist Leone Magiera, Pavarotti went from old Italian art songs to arias to Neopolitan songs for encores. Pavarotti is a superstar, but he is foremost an artist. His tones are beautiful, open and warm, the warmth seeming to radiate from inside the sound. He also shapes the music with artistry, conveying the emotion in the words. Some singers begin to lose top n.otes or the middle voice becomes scratchy, because a SI.nger must move through the middle voice on the way to high and low notes. Pavarotti has neither of those prob­lems. He was in excellent voice on Sunday, sounding rest­ed and unstrained all through his range. For his second song, Pavarotti chose an aria from "Orfeo and Euridice." Several in the audience called out -often in Italian ­for "Nessum dorma" from "Turandot," an aria to which Pavarotti brings special vocal beauty. 
Fumes from body fell doctor, nurse 
RIVERSIDE, Calif. 
Mysterious fumes apparently coming from a patient's body knocked out a doctor and a nurse and forced a hos­pital to close its emergency room, authorities said Sunday. "It appears to be something coming from the body itself," Wesefeldt said. "We are trying to get back­ground before we approach the body. We don't want to put more people at risk." Coroner's officials were con­sulting doctors to figure out what happened, and an autopsy was pending, Wesefeldt said. He was unaware of any similar cases. The 31-year-old female patient, whose name was not released, had been undergoing home chemotherapy treatment for cancer. While the patient was in cardiac arrest Saturday night at Riverside General Hospital, the doctor and nurse drew a blood sample, noticed white crystals in the blood and smelled an odor like ammonia. Then they passed out, said Dr. Humberto Ochoa, an attending physician. 
NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, February 21. 30s 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
.......................... ....,......_ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Prs~urs ~~ 
H L B &:J IT] 0 IZ] § i) L..J.U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vl8 ABSOCial9d Pf9SS 
Atlanta  72  57  Denver  45  25  New York  62  44  
Baltimore  66  33  Dixon  50  46  Philadelphia  61  34  
Boston  62  40  Los Angeles  63  47  Phoenix  69  43  
Chicago  54  38  Miami  81  72  Roanoke  69  39  
Columbus  58  46  Minneapolis  27  13  St. Louis  55  45  
Dallas  72  54  New Orleans  75  59  San Francisco  58  44  

. 
. .·,·, .· ..... 
page 3 
Monday, February 21, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 
Full slate of candidates vying for class, senate offices 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
Students began their cam­paigns for student senate posi­tions and class offices today at 
12:01 a.m., according to Dyan Rohol, election co-commiss­sioner. Listed alphabetically in each district, the following stu­dents are running for student senate positions. 
District one, or South Quad, candidates are sophomore Brian Foley of Fisher and junior Brian McCarthy of Alumni. 
Running unopposed, Amy Jagodzinski. a freshman in Walsh, is senator of District two, or God Quad. 
In District three, or North 
Quad, the tickets are freshman Shannon Lennard of Farley and Zahm junior Sean Sullivan. 
Candidates for District four, or Mod Quad, are Tom Matzzie, a freshman in Grace and Sara Skalicky, a Knott junior. 
Seven tickets are running for off-campus co-presidents this year. The co-presidents sit on Hall Presidents' Council and Student Senate. The candidates are Dana Anderson and Brian Deeley, Chad Clay and Brian Harron, Molly Donius and Michael McEvilly, Brian Kick­ham and Jordan Maggio, Thad Nation and Steven Sostak, Nikole Neidlinger and Matt Reh, and Timothy O'Driscoll and Patrick Parry. 
CLUB COLUMN 
February 21, 1994 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4:00 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition ofThe · Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in room 206 Lafortune. 
1. 
IMPORTANT-The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all Presidents ofgraduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second floor of LaFortune across from the Student Government Office. 

2. 
CUBAN AMERICAN UNION OF STUDENT ADVOCATES (CAUSA) will be holding a meeting on Monday, February 28 at7 p.m. in the Sorin Room at LaFortune. The agenda will include a brief dis­cussion of upcoming events and current projecrs, as well as elections for the office of president and vice-president. The balance of the time will be dedicated to the screening of two short documentary films, "Havana-Miami" and "Fidel." 

3. 
N.D./S.M.C. Right-to-Life will be holding an important meeting on Monday, February 21 at 7:30p.m. in LaFortune's Montgomery Theatre. New members are welcome! 


For sophomore class office, Ranika Ahuja of Badin is run­ning for president with Ted Mahan of Sorin, vice-president, Jillian Pagliocca of Knott, secre­tary, and Mike Burgdorf of Stanford, treasurer. 
Nicole Carlstrom of Walsh is campaigning for president with Lisa Lienhard of Walsh, vice­president, Ryan Furmick of Grace, secretary, and Eric Strong of Grace, treasurer. 
John Kmetz of Fisher is run­ning for president with Brian Klausner of Flanner, vice-presi­dent, Andrea Smith of Siegfried, secretary, and Deborah Hellmuth of Pasquerilla East, treasurer. 
Matt Pollack of Cavanaugh is campaigning for president with Jeremy Murtaugh of Ca­vanaugh, vice-president, Jerry Spartz of Cavanaugh, secretary, and Marni Ryan of Pangborn, treasurer. 
Bob Ryan of Morrissey is run­ning for president with J anine Van Lancker of Siegfried, vice­president, Katie Flynn of Farley, secretary, and Pat Abell of Morrissey, treasurer. 
For junior class office, George Fischer of Fisher is running for president with Matt Schindler of Morrissey. vice-president. Missy Deckard of Pasquerilla West, secretary, and Dominic Amorosa of Zahm, treasurer. 
John Giovacco of Flanner is campaiging for president with Jason Laurie of Cavanaugh, vice-president, Melanie Sissel of Pangborn, secretary, and Nicole Bohn of Siegfried, treasurer. 
Running unopposed for senior class office, Joe Bergan of Dillon is campaigning for presi­dent with Colleen Campbell of Farley, vice-president, Pat Gro­gan of Grace, secretary, and Jane Daly of Lyons, treasurer. 
Elections will be held this Monday, Feb. 28, in the dorms between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. and again between 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. Off-campus students may vote at the LaFortune In­formation Desk at the same times. If necessary. runoff elec­tions will be held on Wednesday, March 2. 
LaFortune hours to extend until 3 a.m. 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
Student government has ar­ranged to extend the hours of the first floor of LaFortune until 3 a.m. for the rest of the school year, according to Nikki Well­mann, student body vice-presi­dent. 
"It's a lot of space and half of it can be social and half can be study-oriented," said Well­mann. 
Students need late-night 
space to study together, accord­ing to Wellmann, and the ex­tension of hours helps to satisfy this need. Last semester stu­dent government organized a trial period of extended hours in LaFortune, but it was not successful because students "didn't have much to do yet." With only two weeks left before spring midterms, student gov­ernment anticipates a greater turnout. ­
Movies provided by Notre Dame Video will be shown on the TV in the Huddle each night at 11 p.m. and 1 a.m. During the first week of the extended hours, free popcorn will be served. The "Fast Break" food store will also remain open. 
A 24-hour space committee from student government and Student Union Board discussed the extension with Dave Pren­tkowski, director of food ser­vices, Mary Edgington, assis­tant director of facilities, and Father George Rozum, rector of Alumni. 
%is weetin %e Observer... Lootfor tfie Sesquicentennia[series ofartic[es eJ(amining issues facing tfie Saint Mary's community. 


WEEKOFFEBRUARY21, 1994 
HUDDLEOPENUNTIL3AM CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
Beginning Mon­and students who utilize 
SIGNUPS THIS WEEK ..... 
day, February 21, the first the Huddle will have a floorofLaFortunevnllbe chance to win tickets to see Sign ups for Christ­place on Saturday, April open until3:00 a.m. Mov­Gin Blossom. mas in April will be held 16. Signu ps will be held on ies vnll be shown every This project is the this week. Christmas in Tuesday, February 22 and night in the Huddle at first step in an effort to cre­April is a daylong service Wednesday, February 23 
11:00 p.m. and 1:00 a.m. ate more 24 hour space on project in which hundreds from 11-2 and 4-8 in the courtesyofNDVideo, and campus. It is due to a joint of volunteers from Notre Library Concourse. The "Fast Break" food effort by Student Govern­Dame and South Bend re­Groups of up to eight store will remain open un­ment and University Food pair and refurbish houses people can sign uptogether til3:00 a.m. Services. Please take ad­in the community. Jobs and vnll be assigned to the 
During the week vantage of it! range from painting to same house. Spaces are of February 21, free pop­roofing to building limited, so sign up early. corn vnll be distributed, porches, and professional Improving the living con­
builders join with volun­ditions of a less fortunate teers to fix up houses in neighbor brings a great disrepair. sense ofsatisfaction! ! ! 
The event will take 
CAMPAIGNING BEGINS MONDAY 
Campaigning for class of­Wednesday the .30th ifneces­ficers and senators begins at sary. 
12:01 a.m. on Monday, Feb­Voting will take place in ruary 21 and ends at mid­each dorm from ll:OOa.m. to night on Sunday, February 1:00 p.m. and from 5:00p.m. 
27. to 7:00p.m. Offcampus stu­
The elections will be held dents can vote at LaFortune. on Monday, F ebruary28, and Pleaserememberto cast your runoffs will take place on vote! 

~-:-----~­
~ . ' . 
[ page4 The Observer • YUGOSLAVIA Monday, February 21, 1994 
sites identified, said Brig. Gen. Andre Soubirou, U.N. com­
Yugo Clinton delays airstrikes for now
t 
mander for Sarajevo. Serbs had continued from page 1 pulled out of 23, and U.N. 
monitors had already taken By RON FOURNIER ultimatum, subjecting Serbs to mined by the facts on the Associated Press air strikes after 7 p.m. EST if ground," he said early in theall and we will all live in a unit­control of five more and were 
ed Serb state," said Goran Petkovic, a soldier from Serbia. 
The U.N. commander in Bosnia, Lt. Gen. Sir Michael Rose, said Sunday night that "if there are breaches tomorrow, I will not hesitate to call in the air strikes." 
U.N. peacekeepers would work Sunday night to get a clear idea of the situation by Monday morning, Rose said. 
"So far, both sides have com­plied almost wholly with what we've asked them to do" despite problems with weather and breakdowns, he said. 
He added he was "reasonably optimistic we will come to a peaceful end to this terrible war in Sarajevo." 
As of 7 p.m. U.N. monitors had visited 32 of 41 Serb gun 
McAdams 
continued from page 1 
former Yugoslavia. Will this fragile coalition of countries hold together when the ques­tion of committing ground forces is raised? Will the United States try to avoid the embarrassment it felt last sum­mer as a similar bombing dead­line came and went with no American retaliation? What role will NATO play, as it tries to define its role in Post Cold War Europe? 
"The West, particularly the U.S., has committed itself to some very tough positions, by treating Bosnia almost like an ally, " stated McAdams. "We've accepted the idea of a free Bosnia and a Muslim state. That could cause more prob­lems down the road. Balkan conflicts have a history of expanding, and if this one con­tinues, the repercussions could touch off strife between two NATO members like Greece in the process of taking control of another four. 
The Serbs had regrouped 225 weapons at eight locations un­der U.N. control and the Bosnian army had turned over 43 weapons, Soubirou said. 
Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic had said the Serbs would meet the NATO deadline. More than half their weapons have been withdrawn, he told CNN Sunday, adding his forces did not plan to use those guns in other parts of Bosnia, where there is still fighting. 
NATO and the United Nations faced the choice between ac­cepting Bosnian Serb pledges not to use the remaining guns or bombing them and risking both an escalating war in the Balkans and frosty relations with Moscow. 
and Turkey." 
A lasting peace, according to McAdams, will only come when the big powers. the United States, England, France, Ger­many decide that a secure Balkan region is in the best in­terest of the world. While the United Nations may be able to supply food to people under siege, only these countries can supply the necessary military and financial resources to bring the fighting to an end and help expedite stability. 
For now, though a glimmer of hope is all that the people of the former Yugoslavia and the world have to go on. 
"The first step has been taken, " said McAdams. "The second step isn't going to be so easy. A semi-state of peace in Sarajevo is just as surprising as a thaw in South Bend in Febru­ary. However. this is only Sarajevo. The artillery may be moved and put to use else­where. The coming days and weeks will reveal much. but for the first time in a long time, there's reason to hopeful." 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton said Sunday that Serb military leaders either moved or sur­rendered enough of their artillery 

surrounding Bill Clinton Sarajevo to make NATO air strikes unnec­essary "at this time." 
But the president emphasized that could change if the Ser­bians backslide. 
"Despite the significant events of the day, we must re­main vigilant," Clinton said in a statement read by Press Secre­tary Dee Dee Myers. "All par­ties should be aware that the ultimatum stands. The deadline has not been extended. Any heavy weapons in the exclusion zone not under UN control are, and will remain, subject to air strikes. 
"NATO and the United Na­tions will continue to monitor compliance extremely care­fully." 
Myers acknowledged that "a handful'" of weapons probably are not yet under UN control, but said they will be soon. 
Clinton's statement said any weapons in the zone not under UN control "soon should be." 
"If they rearm, they will be at risk," said a senior administra­tion official, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity. 
There were an unusual num­ber of staffers at the White House for a Sunday evening, but the atmosphere was calm with no outward sign of any ac­tivity as the deadline ap­proached -and then passed. The president had dinner in the family quarters. 
The Clinton administration insisted all day that NATO would hold to the open-ended 
GMAT 
GRE 
Improve your scores: 
LSAT --7.5 points GMAT --72 points MCAT--8 points GRE --214 points 
Our results have been verified by a Big Six accounting Firm. No other course can make that claim. 
CALL FOR INFORMATION ABOUT THE COURSE NEAREST YOU 

COURSES START SOON •CALL NOW! 
(BOO) 480-PREP 
Nekher Princeton Uniwrs~ llO( The EducalionaJ Testing Service is alfilialed with The Princeton R811iew. 
they did not withdraw their heavy weapons from around Sarajevo or put them under control of the United Nations. 
"The deadline will stand," Clinton had said after church. 
But later Sunday, administra­tion officials signaled that strikes were not likely. saying poor weather over Sarajevo made it difficult to determine Serbian compliance. 
Administration officials said it would be at least Monday be­fore an assessment could be made and any bombing orders could be given. 
Clinton and Defense Secre­tary William Perry were quoted by Russian officials well before the deadline as saying no im­mediate air strikes were neces­sary. The White House denied that a decision had been made that soon -or that Clinton had given any such explicit assur­ances to Russian President Boris Yeltsin during a tele­phone call placed by Yeltsin. 
A senior administration offi­cial, speaking to reporters at the White House, said the Serbs produced "a dramatic in­crease" Sunday in the number of weapons complying with the ultimatum. But the official said some sites-"less than 10" ­remained unsecured by the UN for several reasons, including poor weather. 
The weapons should be in control of the UN by the end of the day Monday, said the senior official. 
Accused of making hollow threats against the Serbs be­fore, Clinton stressed his will­ingness to carry out the NATO threat. "What happens after 7 o'clock tonight will be deter-day. 
Noting that NATO can carry out its threat any time after the deadline, the senior administration official said of the ultimatum, "This is not a one-time deal." 
Officials expressed hope that the situation would be eased at least until Tuesday, when diplo­mats with the U.S., Russia, France, Britain and Germany meet in Bonn to discuss ways to end the fighting through nego­tiations. 
Clinton and Yeltsin talked by telephone for 20 minutes Sun­day afternoon and Clinton ex­pressed his gratitude for Yeltsin's efforts to get the Serbs to heed the ultimatum, the White House official said. 
Clinton telephoned NATO sec­retary general Manfred Wo­erner twice and French Presi­dent Fran~;ois Mitterrand, offi­cials said. 
Yeltsin's spokesman said the Russian leader was told by Clinton that there was no immediate need for NATO air strikes. The White House said Clinton never made that promise. 
Perry, talking to Clinton by phone after meeting NATO de­fense ministers at an Italian air base, said the Serbs were "seri­ously attempting to comply" with the deadline, a!Jhough they still had a long way to go, defense officials said. 
Perry told reporters that U.N. troops had reported they were able to travel throughout the 12.4-mile exclusion zone de­manded by NATO around Sarajevo and thus might be able to put all the remaining guns under their control. 
Savings Worth StuGying 
Any student can get a great haircut from licensed, professional stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment. Stop in at our ronvenient mall location. At Maste!Cuts we trim prices, not quality. We carry: Reg~ Paul Mitchell, Biolage, Nexxus, VaVoom and KMS. 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 

0/oOFF 
All Salon Services and Haircare Products REGIS ME:~ 
Student haircut price $7.16 
Reg. $8.95 
Mu11 prtuniiiUdtnii.D. Sorry, nodoubltdll«<unb 
MasterCuts 
....................... 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 277-3770 
() Rtgls Corporation 1994 
Monday, February 21, 1994 
Farmers take precautions to avert rare hantavirus 
Associated Press 
ClAYfON, Ind. 
Bob Sharer has spent 35 years farming just outside this Hendricks County town without thinking twice about mice. 
"You'll go in there and there'll be lots of mouse drop­pings. I used to just brush 'em away," said Sharer, waving his arm at his large white farm­house. "But now I'll disinfect first." 
Not anymore. 
Sharer started worrying about mice in January after his neighbor John Mitchell died of a rare viral disease. Now he even wears a respirator when cleaning. 
Mice, in particular deer mice, carry a newly-discovered strain of hantavirus. They shed the virus through feces, urine and saliva. When droppings, nests and other contaminated areas are disturbed, the virus can be inhaled. 
The tiny organisms have sick­ened at least 59 people in the United States since last spring, when an outbreak of respirato­ry distress cases, many of them fatal, struck the Southwest. 
Hantavirus pulmonary syn­drome begins much like the flu. But the initial aches and pains are followed by severe respira­tory problems. In what may be part of a massive immune sys­tem reaction, capillaries begin to leak and the lungs fill with fluid. 
Although deer mice are found 
--~-~----~--~
·--~-~---·~-~~~ ---------~ 

"The Observer"/Macy Heuckel 
Dining in style 
Notre Dame juniors and their parents enjoy the "Directors Dinner'' held at the Joyce Athletic Convoca­tion Center on Saturday as part of the Junior Parents Weekend festivities. 
Budget amendment has support for vote 
in most of the country, until re­cently all confirmed cases of the disease had been west of the Mississippi River. Mitchell and a case in Florida were the first exceptions. 
Publicity and rumors about the hantavirus case had died down some until about a week ago in Hendricks County. Then the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported the virus had been found in four of 26 rodents trapped near Mitchell's Clayton home. 
Public officials warn that those tests demand precau­tions, not panic. 
"It boils down to common sense. In the past we've been cavalier about rodents. We need to look at all rodents as infectious," said Mary Lou Fleissner, epidemiologist at the Indiana Department of Health. 
No more rodent testing will be done, Fleissner said. 
The CDC has been advised that if the virus has been found in one location in the state, it should be presumed present everywhere in Indiana, she said. 
"There are reasons to take precautions, but that doesn't mean we need to hope up, re­treat and breathe nothing but filtered air," said Robert Waltz. state entomologist with the In­diana Department of Natural Resources. 
"It's scary, but I don't know what you can do about it," said Charles Fisher, who works for Murrain Excavating. 
THE LANGUAGE RESOURCE CENTER PRESENTS: 
A Teleconference: 
FROM THEORY TO PRACTICE: THE NATURAL APPROACH 
February 23, 1994 
3:00 PM -5:00 PM Room 116 DeBartolo Hall 
Featuring panel discussion with Steven Krashen, Jeanne Egasse, Erwi~ Tschirn~r, Mary Rogers, Magdalena Andrade and Miguel Munoz. Dunng questions and answers segment you will have an opportunity to participate by telephone. 
Registration is free, but you must call (1-5881) or stop by (Room 201 O'Shaughnessy) to reserve your place. 
Sponsored by McGraw-Hill Publishing and the 
N.D. Language Resource Center. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Backers of a balanced budget constitutional amendment have enough support to assure a vote in the Senate but not necessari­ly the two-thirds majority to pass it, the measure's chief sponsor said Sunday. 
"We have 60 votes to block a filibuster; I don't know that we have the 67 votes to pass it," said Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill. 
But with a showdown debate scheduled to begin as early as Tuesday, Simon also questioned whether opponents, led by 
2JL§! 
Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., had the votes to defeat it. 
"I don't think Robert Byrd has 34 votes to stop it," Simon said on NBC's "Meet the Press." An Associated Press survey of the Senate's 100 members last week showed 60 of them saying they support or would probably support the amendment. Twenty-seven said they would reject or were lean­ing against it. Twelve senators said they were undecided. Only Sen. Ted Stevens, R-Alaska, refused to answer the survey. 
The amendment would require balanced federal bud­gets beginning in the year 2001 unless three-fifths of the House and Senate voted to allow a deficit. It fell one vote short of passage, 66-34, the last time the Senate debated it in 1986. 
Even with Senate passage, the amendment would still require a two-thirds vote in the House and ratification by 38 of the 50 'state legislatures before it would become part of the Constitution. 
Because ratification could take up to seven years, Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J., called the amendment a sham, saying it would do nothing to reduce the government's annual deficits. 
"You're going to have to have enabling legislation, and I guar­antee you the enabling legisla­tion's going to be full of loop­holes," said Bradley. 

SAVE AVE 
500 500 
Off Off 
Our Famous Preferred Hand Wash 
Indian Ridge Plaza Next to Venture
With Our#1 Oil Change 
Grape Rd.. Mishawaka (Offer good with coupon only • Expires 3-26-94) 277-7946 
expires 2-28-94 
'some5tate& fe(JeralrtqUiat!OmmayapptyCcopyrqt 199~ Chlcaqol-lalrc~Co 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, February 21, 1994 
NCA 
continued from page 1 
relations, and finance. 
"Accreditation is basically about accountability," said Williams. 
According to Williams, the Final 
Report: Colloquy for the Year 2000 
and the university's method of assessing student academic achievement and success will be important parts of the study. 
"The focus is on student learning. Are students really getting educated at colleges and universities? How do you know that students are learning what you think they are? This gives you some feedback on your own vision," said Williams. 
In the preliminary self-study, Williams' committee discusses the evaluation of academic pro­grams using alumni surveys. Part of the NCA's visit will ad­dress these methods to assess the effectiveness of its academ­ic mission. 
Team members will meet this week with faculty, students, and members of the adminis­tration and the Board of Trustees. At the end of the visit, the NCA will present their sug­gestions and evaluations to Uni­versity President Father Ed­ward Malloy, Provost Father Timothy O'Meara and Williams. "It's an attempt to be judged by our own peers and see how we can become more excellent," said Williams. 
Twelve people comprise the evaluation team, which includes Hunter Rawlings, president of the University of Iowa, Alice Hayes, executive vice-president of Saint Louis University, Jack Lengyel, ath­letic director of the U.S. Naval Academy, and Deborah Holmes, vice-president for aca­demic affairs at Loyola Uni­versity of Chicago. The other team members are Eldon Jay Epp of Case Western Reserve University, Celestino Fernandez of the University of Arizona, Michael Kanavanaugh of Southwest Missouri State, Thomas Miller of Canisius Col­lege, William Neenan of Boston College, Marilyn Stokstad of the University of Kansas, Lorna Strauss of the University of Chicago, and Dina Zinnes of the University of Illinois at Urbana­Champaign. 
Haitian boat capsizes 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
versity. 
"As we look to the 21st cen­tury, we have to look at the cur­riculum in general and look at how it will need to change especially to meet the needs of a more diverse campus," Hickey said. 
The composition of the stu­dent body has changed over the past 10 years, but the College must still work to become more diverse, according to Hickey. 
Since 1984, the College has seen an increase in the repre­sentation of different socioeco­nomic backgrounds among the student body, but an increase in other areas of diversity is still somewhat limited. 
The amount of students re­ceiving need-based financial aid has risen from 25 percent to 50 percent of the student body and the number of women of color 
tnanager and bartender applications 
now 
available 
has risen from almost zero per­cent to more than five percent. 
With no numerical goal set, the College is targeting to in­crease the number of women of color and women from different ethnic, religious, and socioeco­nomic backgrounds, Hickey said. 
In addition to increasing di­versity on the campus, Hickey said that the College must de­velop the Office of Multicultural Affairs and make it a more visi­ble force on campus. 
Utilizing a $150,000 grant from the Lilly Foundation, the College will continue to support workshops to train and sensi­tize faculty for teaching in a multicultural classroom. The grant will also enable the Office to design other programs to develop the multicultural as­pects of the College. 
"We're just beginning to ad­dress multiculturalism, we have a long way to go," Hickey said. 
Increasing financial aid sup­port and the financial strength of the College will have to con­tinue, according to Hickey, if Saint Mary's wants to see di­versity and its other goals be­come a reality. 
"If you don't have resources you can dream as much as you want, but implementing these dreams is a much different story," Hickey said. 
The bulk of the College's $36 million endowment is used for financial aid, grants, scholar­ships and the faculty develop­ment program. The goal is to double the endowment. 
The College is also renewing its commitment to remaining a residential campus. 
"The community as it exists in a residential environment has a very unique mission," Hickey said. "It is critical to look at what community means, which means we have to constantly look at the community and work at it." 
In addition, Saint Mary's will also look to remain a teaching institution, which is what the 

Available at the Freshman Class Dinner February 23 5:30 -7:30 p.m. at Senior Bar for the bargain price of $10 



~~~HEY JUNIORS! 
~ ~ 
Stll~~o apply for the best 
1994~s JOb on campus 

\_ Studel]t
0 
-~ ..-</rt. . 
*"-...'""' '-·Jvit \e..<?·· 
0 
STUDENT MANAGER DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 25 BARTENDER DEADLINE: MARCH r8 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
A boat carrying 20 to 40 would-be Haitian refugees to Florida capsized in shark-in­fested waters off the Bahamas Sunday. At least five people died, authorities said. 
Only three people were known to have reached the safety of a beach off Green Tur­tle Cay, northeast of Great Abaco Island, said duty officer Rhonda Whaton of the Ba­hamas Air-Sea Rescue. 
"It's very gruesome," she said. "Unfortunately, there are sharks very active in the area." 
success and reputation of the College has been built upon. 
"We're committed to teaching and our recognition as one of the best colleges of our type comes from this faculty/student interaction," said Hickey, who sighted Saint Mary's current ranking by U.S. News and World Report as number one in faculty resources as a sign of the College's continuing strength in this area. 
"Interaction beyond the class­room is what makes Saint Mary's College clearly different from other institutions," he said. 
This interaction will continue through consistent work on the recruitment of professors com­mitted to teaching and through 


HOWARD ORLANDO JOHNSON MIDTOWN 
SPRING BREAK 
Howard Johnson Midtown--Orlando Centrally Located 
• 2 mi. from Church StrL'l't St<ltilm-Clubs-Nightlife 
•I mi. from Arena -Home of the Magic 
• 1 hour fwm Daytl ma Beach 
•I) min. fr()m Univer~al Studil)S 
• )(\ min. from Di~Iwy 
$45 per night/ 1~4 people 
1--800--645--6386 
Logo contest 
Entries due Spm 2/21. 
PRIZE: 2 tix
Tum them into Bethany ••• 
Riddle's mailbox in SUB or at the Student Government office 
The known dead were a woman and four children, Whaton said. She could not confirm if anyone was bitten by sharks. 
The 23-foot boat capsized during the night and was spot­ted about midday by an American sailing vessel, she said. 
A Coast Guard helicopter and three Bahamian boats were searching for survivors Sunday. No additional survivors had been found by Sunday evening, said Coast Guard Petty Officer Alex Worden in Miami. 
continued faculty development programs funded through the endowment. 
Through continued develop­ment in the areas that have gained Saint Mary's national recognition, a new plan of gov­ernance that responds to the continuing trend of a decreased number of people entering reli­gious orders, and a self-study, the College is actively working to plan for its future. 
"We are constantly defining what it means to be a residen­tial Catholic institution for women and what programs we can develop to better this mis­sion," Hickey said. "We want to better our goal of being a com­munity of people all working together for a common goal." 
to tlze liJ1C011lill( 
SUB concert... 
e'Uo/1 ~ euut 
~~,eu. 
Monday, February 21, 1994 The Observer • CALIFORNIA NEWS page7 
Stortn hits Southern California Michigan residents aid 
ed a three-foot river of mud from entering the home of Lisa 
quake apartment victims 
and Brian Anderson. But their 
ByANHBUI she lost more."
garage was three feet deep in water, damaging two new cars Associated Press Diane Stillman was so moved inside. They had just finished by Enos' gesture she gave him clearing their house of mud LOS ANGELES her $850 check. 
from the Feb. 9 storm. Hyun Sook Lee sat quietly, Stillman, a paralegal who 
"All I'm waiting for now is for dressed in black, her fingers lives with her 84-year-old the Martians to come," twisting the wedding ring on mother. lost everything in the Anderson said. her hand, her downcast eyes quake, but was happy to have 
Between six and eight inches brimming with tears. survived. of snow fell above 3,000 feet, "I just feel so lucky, you with eight to 12 inches above Jim Enos sat alone across the know," she told Enos. 6,000 feet, and more was 
church aisle, several rows expected during the night, the back, his face shadowed by a The outpouring of generosity baseball cap. astonished the two visitors
National Weather Service said. Elsewhere in California, snow from Michigan, who had trav­
also fell overnight in the Sierra They and other residents of eled 2,000 miles to present six Nevada, with 20 inches report­the Northridge_Meadows apart­checks for $850 each and three ed at Mammoth, the weather ments, where 16 people were checks for $150 each to the service said. killed by the Jan. 17 earth­hardest-hit residents and fami­
quake, gathered Saturday to lies.
Tire chains were required on 
accept financial help from resi­
most Southern California 
mountain roads Sunday. dents of a Michigan apartment "It just touches my heart that Interstate 5 was closed for complex with a nearly identical ... the help we're providing more than seven hours over the name. them they're turning around 
and helping those who need it
Grapevine Pass in the 
But when the money was even more," said Eva Pieper,
Tehachapi Mountains north­
west of Los Angeles, and the offered, the earthquake victims resident manager of the proved that they could be just Northridge Meadow apart­
California Highway Patrol 
as generous. ments in Northville, Mich. 
escorted Interstate 15 traffic through the Cajon Pass in the Enos, whose wife, Darla, was 
killed in the quake, took the The 6.7-magnitude earth­
San Bernardino Mountains. 
The Altadena fire area north­$850 he received and slipped quake caused 61 deaths and an east of Los Angeles escaped the check into Lee's shaking estimated $20 billion in dam­flooding Sunday, while Laguna hands. She responded with a ages. 
hug.
Canyon Road in Orange County 
had minor flooding. Pieper and the owner of the 
Ventura County, parts of Alan Hemsath, who was Michigan complex, Elizabeth which also were hit by fire, had badly injured when the quake Brooks, said they were struck minor rockslides on local roads, trapped him in his apartment, by an eerie coincidence as they 
gave his $850 to Lee, as well. watched the earthquake dam­the sheriffs department report­Lee's husband, Pil Soon, and age on television. As Northridgeed. 
her 14-year-old son Howard Meadow residents wentThere were about 100 acci­
were killed in the quake. Her through their early morning
dents between 6 a.m. and 9 
a.m. on Los Angeles County 12-year-old son Jason was seri­routine, Northridge Meadows ously injured. residents went through hell. 
freeways Sunday, compared with the usual 20 to 30 acci­
dents, said highway patrol "She lost her entire family," "It was just too much of coin­Officer Bill Granados . Enos said. "I lost my wife, but cidence to pass up. Somebody 
ByANH BUI 
Associated Press 
MALIBU, Calif. 
Rivers of mud cascaded down coastal canyons and closed the Pacific Coast Highway on Sunday as yet another storm swept heavy rain across. fire­scarred Southern California. 
Heavy snow clogged moun­tain highways. 
Roads flooded by water as much as two feet deep made driving treacherous and at least three traffic deaths were blamed on rain-slick freeways. 
Flowing mud briefly trapped a handful of Malibu residents inside their homes, and a motorist had to be rescued after his car became mired in muck in Las Flores Canyon. 
Several homes were damaged by the mud, although a precise count wasn't immediately avail­able. No evacuations were ordered and no injuries were reported. 
On Feb. 9, rain-driven mud­slides damaged 25 homes in areas stripped of vegetation by a Nov. 2 fire that charred 18,500 acres of the Santa Monica Mountains. 
In all, more than 20 autumn fires burned across 200,000 acres from Ventura County to the Mexican border and offi­cials have warned that Malibu and other fire-scarred areas face repeated flooding with each rainfall. 
About two inches of rain overnight loosened soil around Malibu despite frantic reseed­ing and sandbagging since the fire. 
Northern Ventura County received three inches of rain and one inch fell in downtown Los Angeles. 
Mudslides coated roads in several Malibu canyon6, said Los Angeles County sheriffs Lt. . Michael Moore. Plows and bull­dozers scraped muck from the closed Pacific Coast Highway. 
A woman and two children were trapped in their Malibu home when a private bridge washed out, but they were res­cued without injury, said sher­iffs Deputy Kelly McMichael. 
Tow trucks removed cars stuck in the mud and residents sandbagged their homes against flowing debris. Road crews slipped and fell into thick goo as they tried to clear storm drains. 
A thick wooden wall prevent-
BRUNO'S PIZZA Weeki ecial: Free 2-Liter Coke
. 
or Diet Coke w/any Pizza Order 
(good Monday-Friday) 
BEST PIZZA DEAL IN TOWN! 
CALL NOW! 
Greg's 21 
And still coo after all these years! 
Qad -Mom -Alison -Scott -Cleo 
was telling me something," Brooks said. 
It was Brooks' idea to aid her building's unrelated near­namesake. Pieper devoted 14 to 15 hours a day to the cause. They hoped to raise $10,000 in three weeks. So far, they have raised $6,300, with the promise of an additional $2,000, Brooks said. 
Later, Pieper and Brooks vis­ited the devastated Northridge Meadows apartments. 
The building, whose top two stories had collapsed onto the first story, is surrounded by a chain link fence and yellow caution tape. 
Broken furniture and other debris are piled outside. 
Along the street, a steady stream of gawkers, some with cameras and video equipment, peer and point. 
"I don't know what to tell you," Pieper said. "It's horrif­ic ... There aren't words that can describe this. People's lives are in rubble. Bits and pieces of their belongings, balconies destroyed. I don't know what to say." 
DON'TMJSSITIII l ~gy Marloty Live March 7& lA 
~~~ril 
@ tiQ!al S..m S..ra 
-
JAMAICA 
MontegoBay  ltom$449  
Negrll  ltom$479  
Cancun  '"""$469  

•u.,ai1UI'M ,.,.,.. lndlanap..tb ., Chkat•lll 
•o-.r pOIIVItll' '11.mna110111 lndv.te P-111• Clly A Dayt01111 IMCII, florldCI 
•c;au ,..,. m ..... lnlern;atlonlll 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS 
Rebels appear for negotiations 
ByJOHNRICE 
Associated Press 
SAN CRISTOBAL DE 
LAS CASAS, Mexico 
Ski-masked Indian rebels came out of the jungle Sunday to the city where their uprising started on New Year's Day, this time to press their demands for social and political change at peace talks. 
Hundreds of Red Cross work­ers, civilian peace workers and military police armed only with clubs surrounded the 16th cen­tury Roman Catholic cathedral, where the talks will be held Monday in this city of 75,000 people. 
The government's peace ne­gotiator, Manuel Camacho So­lis, and Bishop Samuel Ruiz traveled to the rebels' Lacan­don forest stronghold east of the city Sunday morning and escorted their representatives to the talks. 
At least 18 rebel negotiators, all wearing ski masks or ban­dannas to disguise their faces, arrived at the main plaza on Sunday in three caravans of Red Cross vehicles. 
They sped into the plaza past a cordon of peace workers holding back tightly packed spectators, a few of whom cheered for the rebels. 
Among the rebels was the group's spokesman, "Subcomandante Marcos," who appeared to have an automatic weapon strapped to him. 
Marcos waved briefly to re­porters standing at a nearby platform, but none of the rebels made statements. 
The rebels, Camacho and the bishop huddled in the cathedral Sunday afternoon in prelimi­nary discussions on technicali­ties of the talks. 
In interviews published Sun­day. Marcos said the rebels would not remove their ski masks. 
"The important thing is that we are all here," Camacho said earlier. "If I have to sit next to someone with a machine gun ... who wants to keep his ski mask on, I will respect it. If they want to remove thfiJ}n. I will respect that too." 
Earlier. Camacho said he would pay attention to all pro­posals. 
In interviews published Sun­day with the weekly magazine Proceso, the independent news­paper El Financiero and The New York Times, Marcos said the Zapatista National Lib­eration Army did not expect a quick agreement. 
Marcos, who has kept his identity a secret, said rebels would lay down their arms only if profound changes were made in Mexico's political and eco­nomic system. 
"What is at stake in Chiapas is no longer just Chiapas or even Mexico, but perhaps even the free trade agreement and the whole neo-liberal project in Latin America," he said, refer­ring to the North American Free Trade Agreement and the region's market reforms of the last few years. 
Marcos said the rebels want political autonomy for Chiapan Indians, the resignation of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari and the establishment of a transitional government until the August presidential election. 
Several thousand Zapatista guerrillas seized San Cristobal and other towns Jan. 1, de­manding overthrow of the gov­ernment, free elections and improved treatment of the re­gion's impoverished and long-neglected Indians. 
They withdrew into the jungle a few days later after govern­ment troops moved in. More than 100 people died before the government declared a cease­flre Jan. 12 and began trying to arrange peace talks mediated by the bishop. 
Camacho has insisted na­tional political changes sought by the Zapatistas would not be on the agenda of the talks. But he left open the possibility that any agreements on local prob­lems could have national impli­cations. 
He also made an indirect ap­peal for the region's en­trenched interests -such as political leaders and ranchers -to be open to change. 
The traditionally conservative ranching sector in Chiapas wants tougher government ac­tion against Zapatistas and their supporters, some of whom have seized ranch lands they claim should! have been dis­tributed to peasants decades ago under Mexico's land reform laws. 
Some ranchers earlier threat­ened.to take up arms and flght the Zapatistas themselves -no idle threat in a state with a long history of paramilitary groups sponsored by ranchers defend­ing their lands. 
On Friday. a group reportedly allied with local political and ranching leaders in Altamirano blocked an aid convoy and stole tons of food and medicine head­ed for a town sympathetic to the rebels. 
Forty-seven Chiapas peasant and Indian groups issued a dec­laration last week supporting the Zapatistas and vowing to "promote the takeover" of lands, public buildings and city halls. 
Pre-Law Meeting
February 21 at 7:30p.m. Cushing Auditorium 
Guest Speaker: 
Dean Link 
from the Notre Dame Law School 
Topic: 
''The Future of the Law Profession'' 


. · AREA STUDENTS 
The 1994 Xavier summer sessions bulletin of classes & workshops Is now available. Undergraduate & graduate level courses offered in the areas of arts and sciences, business, education, professional studies and social sciences. Session dates: May 16 -June 23 &July 5 -August 11 
CALL OR WRITE: 
~VIEK 
I 
Summer Sessions UNIVERSITY 
3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207·3120 513/745-4381 
Xav~r Uni~rsiJy is an acatkmic communiJy commilted to equal opport1111i1y for all persons regardless ofage, sex, race, religion, handicap, or naliCHUI origin. 
START YOUR FIRST DAY WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE BEHIND YOU. 

Bring your BSN to the Army and we'll assign a preceptor to help put you at ease. 
Your preceptor will be an experienced Army Nurse who will smooth your transition from school to practice. With advice, counsel on Army nursing pro­cedure, or just by being a friend. 
With your preceptor's help, 
you'll meet your new challenges and rapidly move into a leadership role of your own. 
Ifyou're a BSN candidate...or you are an RN with a BSN...you'll find the rewards and responsibility you're looking for in Army Nursing. Contact your local Army Nurse Corps Recruiter. 
CALL COLLECT (317) 638,9502 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
A 
CAMPUSES 
Monday, February 21, 1994 
Resident Assistant duties inclnde counseling, enforcing, and listening 
By TOM MORAN and the local racetrack. Another problem that R.A.'s R.A.'s at all schools are faced outside of Notre Dame must
BRIAN TIERNEY 
with the formidable task of en­face is the question of fraternity 
News Writers 
forcing the university's alcohol and sorority involvement, as it policy. An unusual policy exists can conflict with one's duties.
Included among typical resi­
at Vanderbilt University, where Various universities face thisdent assistant duties are acting . only 21-year-old students are issue in different ways. At theas academic counselors, enforc­allowed to have parties and University of Michigan, R.A. 's
ing the alcohol policy, and 
musf register them with their can join fraternities and sorori­
ensuring that the dorms run 
R.A. Yet several R.A.'s inter­ties, but during rush week, they smoothly. While R.A.'s at other viewed admitted that they are cannot discuss their member­universities often face similar not particularly strict about en­ships. This prevents R.A.'s from 
responsibilities, sometimes 
forcing alcohol policies, as long lobbying for their houses. 
their job descriptions are signif­as the students control them­Many R.A.'s agreed that oficantly different from those of 
selves. all the adversities they mustR.A.'s at Notre Dame. 
Often, R.A.'s are responsible face, the biggest is dealing with Some colleges require their 
for advising and counseling freshmen. Michigan R.A. LeahR.A.'s to run a specific number 
their students. At Brown Niederstadt called handling
of social, cultural and educa­
University, the entire R.A. sys­freshmen "an amazing job",tional programs for the benefit tem is centered around coun­having to deal with "17 and 18
of the students, such as at 
seling. The R.A. 's are instead year olds pushing the limit." 
Georgetown University, where called resident counselors, and Working in a freshmanR.A.'s must provide two of each 
they are augmented by two dorm, Duke R.A. Kim Hendricksof these programs per semes­
ter. other kinds of counselors: has experienced many unusual minority peer and women's situations. In one instance, she
Educational programs usu­
peer counselors, each of whom described the night that theally deal with issues facing col­
advise their respective seg­residents had a race in the­
lege students such as sex edu­
been known to create trouble, board, great room picks and
ments of the student popula­dorm using shopping carts
cation, nutrition, and self-im­
as a fellow Duke resident assis­stipends of as much as $6000 ation. stolen from a nearby supermar­age. Often, social and cultural tant admitted, citing one night year. Yet most people seem toHaving to reinforce univer­ket. They quickly managed toprograms are opportunities for when his girlfriend came into choose to become R.A. 's be­sity policy while at the same rupture a water fountain pipe,R.A.'s to take their students out his room and closed the blinds cause they think they'll love thetime trying to become a trusted and drench the hallway beforefor some fun. A Georgetown as his neighbors promptly gath­job. Most R.A.'s interviewedconfidant of the students can she could restore order. SuchR.A. noted that since the legal ered outside his window to said that their hopes have comecreate many problems for occurrences were fairly com­gambling age in Washington, chant "Go R.A., Go R.A., Go!" true, as they have found beingR.A.'s. Several R.A.'s noted mon in her freshman dorms,D.C. is only 18, he has taken There are a lot of reasons for a resident assistant a reward­how hard it can be to act as she admitted. 
advantage of past social pro­
becoming an R.A. includig in­ing, informative and enjoyableboth policeman as counselor. Upperclassmen have alsograms to take his students to centives such as free room and experience. 

R.A.s and students form unique relc~.tionships 
By JOHN LUCAS 
Associate News Editor 
Beyond the benefits of free room and board, laundry ser­vice, and parking, the biggest advantage of becoming a Resident Assistant is the chance to meet the people of the hall, according to several Notre Dame and Saint Mary's R.A.'s. 
'NilijlJI@~ Itfi:lll'i ·~~ [;) i\'i\i 
"Being an R.A. gives you a 
silly excuse to get to know peo­
ple," said Steve Senna, an 
Alumni Hall R.A., who knows 
many of the 280 men who live 
there. "It eliminates an awk­
ward moment-as an R.A., peo­
ple don't mind you asking them 
questions about where they're 
from, or how they're doing in 
they're classes." 
Although the primary func­
tion of a resident assistant is to BRIEFS 
Students get cadavers by 
the slice 
To aid students in often diffi­cult task of dissecting cadavers in science classes, Orange Coast Community College has switched to using bodies that have been preserved and cut into slices to allow easier view­ing of organs. Through the process of plastination, cadav­ers are dehydrated and injected with silicon, creating a speci­men without odor and toxins that can be handled without the use of gloves. Associate Professor Ann Harmer hopes that the new process will make the cadavers "more approach-enforce the rules of DuLac, there is much more to the job that just looking for trouble, ac­cording to Pasqurella East R.A. Amy Stoeckl. 
"The job is really more than just walking the halls when you're on duty," she said. "You have to be there with an open door.'' 
In women's dorms, residents are much more likely to sit down and talk with their R.A.'s as friends than in mens dorms, she said. 
"Even if they don't have a problem, people here will just stop in to talk about their day," she said. "There's more of a stigma in guys dorms about going to an R.A. Here we're thought of as a friend first." 
Men usually go to their good friends to talk about a problem and see their R.A. when they are in some kind of trouble, 
able" for students. 
USC begins riot library The University of Southern California, located at the site of the 1992 Los Angeles riots, has acquired documents and books dealing with the Rodney King beatings and the events that followed, with the intention of beginning a comprehensive col­lection of works dealing with the riots. 
Hackers attack Rice computers 
After hackers recently caused Senna agreed. 
"There's more of a hands off approach here," Senna said. "We usually intervene only when necessary. I don't think I've ever had an upperclassman seek me out to talk. Usually, you have to seek them out." 
When enforcing rules, it is important to be fair and impar­tial with students, agreed Stoeckl and Senna. 
"People are never going to like the rules, but if you're con­sistant and fair, people won't dislike you for enforcing them," Senna said. 
Sometimes, R.A. 's can look for violations too agressively, and that causes problems, he said. 
"You've got to avoid the 'gun­slinger' mentality, where you're always going out looking for trouble," he said. "It's im­portant to realize you are not 
the week-long shut-down of the student computer network and cut off ties to the Internet system at Rice University, the FBI investigated the incident to see if there are any links to hacking that has occurred at other schools. In response, ev­ery computer code at the uni­versity has been changed to ensure the security of the sys­tem. Most material lost in the incident was restored from copies on disk and tape. 
Anti-semitism mcreases on campuses 

A study done by the Anti­Defamation League of B'nai Sherlock Holmes.'' 
At Saint Mary's, R.A.'s carry the same responsibilities for enforcing rules, but the focus lies more in trying to build rela­tionships and community around the dorm, according to LeMans Hall R.A. Kristin McAndrew. 
At least four times a semes­ter, McAndrew organizes her section for a special event or program. Whether they go to mass as a group, or go to see "Schindler's List" together, the section becomes much closer, she said. 
An added advantage of the SMC R.A. program is that McAndrew was able to become an R.A. as a junior. Sometimes, even sophomores are accepted as R.A.'s, she said. 
"Younger R.A.'s can be more in touch with the concerns of 
B'rith, anti-semetic incidents on college campuses rose by seven percent. Out of 81 campuses studied, 122 incidents were reported, compared to 114 inci­dents at 60 schools in 1992. The league also noted the pub­lication of "holocaust denial propoganda" in student news­papers and the speaking of con­troversial speakers, such as Louis Farrakhan and Khalid Abdul Muhammad of the Nation of Islam, as increasing anti-semetic sentiments. 
Liberals, Conservatives choose sides at Stanford 
With the statement of a politi­underclassmen," she said. "You're really able to tailor your section to the interest and concerns of your section." 
While there are many bene­fits of becoming an R.A., name­ly the $4000 of free room and board, the job is not all fun. 
"There's not one major thing that's a disadvantage," Senna said. "But, there's a bunch of little things-like cleaning up after people who were throwing up, to missing out on things my friends are doing." 
Sacrificing part of your senior year for the dorm ends up be­ing the hardest part of the job, McAndrew said. 
"Sometimes people take ad­vantage of your time," she said. "A lot of the time they'll just come in and plop down in your chair without realizing that you have busy days too." 
cal science professor claiming that white Christians are "un­derrepresented" in comparison to Jewish and Asian students, controversy has erupted at Stanford University with regard to its affirmative action pro­gram. Campus liberals cite Professor Stephen Krasner's statement as evidence of the college's trend towards the more conservative right. A new conservative newspaper and a Democratic party club have recently been founded as the university struggles between liberal and conservative inten­sify. 
-Information from the Chronicle of Higher Education 

.' . . '
'. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Monday, February 21, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board NoT~rA~T. 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
'WHERE'~ Tt-\E 
Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman 
f\RE~5..e~~in~~ 
Viewpoint Editor............................. :Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administra­tion ofeither inscitucion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 63!-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
KURT MILLS ON THE OTHER HAND 
Modern conflicts: Primitive tribalism vs. modern ethnicity 
Last week, while watching the ness suit, which is what he tive, with identities which are elsewhere before they were in Irish really any less "tribal" in opening ceremonies of the wears most of the time. Rather, not valuable or worthwhile. We Europe), I have no religious terms of the way they conduct Olympics, a friend made a very he was wearing traditional trib­never hear about the "tribal" affiliation (and do not want to themselves en masse while perceptive and telling remark al clothes, although they were conflict between Protestant and be associated with the religion I their warriors are out on the to me. A group of Sami, a not even from is own "tribe." Catholic in Northern Ireland. was brought up in, even though field fighting another tribe? Or, minority group from Norway Around the same time, F. W. We never heard about the many people identify them­from a different perspective, whose cultural origins go back DeClerk was also shown wear­"tribal" conflict between black selves that way, regardless of are the cultural customs, lan­thousands of years, had just ing traditional African dress as and white in the United States, their real religious practice), I guage, dress, etc. of "tribes" of come out to sing a traditional part of his campaigning rather although being African­speak English (but American a different type than those Sami song. They were dressed than his normal clothes (of American, those who look dif­English, not British English), I same attributes we ascribe to up in full Sami costume. My ferent from the dominant ethnic am a graduate student, I come more respectable "ethnic" friend turned to me and she groups in America were por­from New England (while at the groups, such as the Sami? said: "Tell me they aren't a Ethnicity is simply trayed as "tribal," primitive, or same time I am also a citizen of It seems to me that it is not
' 
tribe." less than human. the United States, a resident of where we live -say, Africa
the way in which 
What she was referring to North America, and a member versus Europe -that deter­was the fact that we in the we identify ourselves us­Most especially, we have not of one of the affluent Western mines how our identities play United States and elsewhere in heard about the Serbian, countries), and am a member of themselves out. Rather, it is the
ing such things as
the Western world make a dis­Croatian, and Bosnian "tribes" the human "race." All of these extent to which our identities tinction between different social ancestry, an outmoded fighting. They, after all, have different identities play them­are so exclusive that we feel groups depending on where ties to Europe and thus qualify selves out in different ways justified engaging in extreme
idea of "race;' culture, 
they are and when they got as civilized groups, even when depending on the situation I am measures to preserve our pres­
language, and other 
there. Groups in Africa, and to some of them are doing incredi­in. tige, power, dominance, etc. a certain extent in North identifying characteris­bly uncivilized things. In this Thus, Los Angeles gangs, America, are tribes. Tribes are instance, we have "ethnic" con­Each and every one of us has Somalian clans, Jews in Israel,
tics, many of which 
supposed to represent the flict, as if using this word many different identities. Yet, and Serbian militia are all trib­primitive, the pre-modern. would be all but invisible makes certain identities more we seem to ascribe to certain al in that they engage in vio­They supposedly embody the valid than others. types of people a monolithic, or lent, i.e. primitive, behavior
to the outside observer.' 
primal, instinctual, violent as­"Ethnicity" is simply the way tribal, identity which seems to because they see their identities pects of humanity which the in which we identify ourselves threatened. Of course, these modern world has pvercome. course, there was no talk of the using such things as ancestry, pale in comparison to the tribal 
We talk about tribal conflict Afrikaaner "tribe"). One won­an outmoded idea of "race," behavior of the United States and war in Africa, or, in the ders why the media feels it has culture, language, and other ' Is the behavior I have and Soviet Union when they case of Somalia, clan warfare. to make some sort of supposed­identifying characteristics, witnessed by football each threatened to completely Some in the West seem to say ly primitive connection rather many of which would be all but destroy the other because they
fans here at the home of 
that since it is only primitives than portraying people the way invisible to the outside observ­saw their identities as so mutu­killing each other, which is they usually look. er. Most people seem to think the Fightin' Irish really ally exclusive. what tribalism is all about, that we have some sort of core 
any less "tribal" in terms
there is not much we can or It is usually only Africans and identity, usually called ethnici­Thus, before we start making should do about it. Perhaps, Native Americans who are por­ty, which defines who we are, of the way they conduct distinctions between primitive many say, we should just let the trayed as "tribal." Other types especially in relation to others. "tribalism" and modern
themselves en masse 
clans in Somalia go at it, since of ethnic, religious, and other That is, there is a kind of exclu­"ethnicity," we should stop and
while their warriors are
this is what they are. self-identified groups are por­sivity associated with our iden­think about where these identi­trayed as just that. Thus, in the tity. Yet, identity is not im­out on the field fighting ties -which seem static but People in Africa are repre­United States for example, we mutable. We all change identi­which are, in fact, quite dynam­
another tribe?' 
sented differently in the media, have the Irish, the Protestants, ties in relation to the situation ic -are leading us. too, as a result of their "tribal" the Catholics, the Mexicans, the and people we are trying to heritage. A good example could Italians, etc. All of these groups identify with or against. For dehumanize them and make be found recently in The New are supposedly modern, example, I am white (as them seem primitive and York Times. There was a pic­enlightened, civilized opposed to black, brown, red, unable to counteract their Kurt Mills is a doctoral candi­ture of Nelson Mandela cam­although in the past they have etc.), I can trace my ancestors "tribal" urges and act as indi­date in the Department of paigning for the South African not been portrayed that way -back to Great Britain and viduals. Yet, is the behavior I Government and International elections to be held in April. He and have "true" ethnic identi­Germany (but I also know that have witnessed by football fans Studies. His column appears was not shown wearing a busi-ties, whereas tribes are primi-my ancestors also came from here at the home of the Fightin'' every other Monday. 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
7HI5PJA5 THe X&N/3 TOOAYA7 

WHOA.'9JIT5
PROF£<350RJU£l.S Pe.t!PMAN M­RJV&l? AT{J)(Jf<T 7D Tt1377fY IN A 
A FUL-l-P,(;. t£T'§JU5T 5UITOvet?. A 5TU!?£NT'5 /iJtiJ 6RA!?e. 
f)efeNf,f;? <JAYW&'!<& 
• J<t.ADY.
I
r<eA/... VICTIM 
\ 
'''Tou can't hold a man 
I. down without staying with him." 
--Booker T. Washington 
Monday, February 21, 1994 page 11
VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A Rose' Beneatll the;·l·~: 
Stop judging and labeling music 
Dear Editor: tainment, a powerful communi­discrete entities but all continu­
In remembrance of Clare 
cations medium, an emotion ous parts of a full function. In the past week, letter after and so on and so forth. Music Each one complements all oth­
Dear Editor: together. And \Y6 temem~ letter talking about alternative can drive, relax, bring out emo­ers in some way and all come
bered, we remembered what music and its validity have been tions, look into the heart, move from the same root, namely
I ask myself now we were like whe.n Clare was appearing in The Observer. All mountains; it is rock-n-roll, music itself. Take for instance
why didn't I love only here. We remembered Clare's of these letters, pro-sellout, reggae, classical, Cuban, coun­modern popular music. Dance
sudden roses; parents~~ JaPJ.e ·· 11d Joan; pro-alternative, anti-alterna­try western, rap, Whoomp music came from disco and rap
june tides, James taught$ q$()nte of tive-pop, etc., trouble me. there it is!, pop, and a child which came from rock and jazz moons above the sea? what .beJau eep )Vith-I have been a musician as banging pans in the kitchen. which came from the bluesWhy did I have tpJpve ;.ip 1llY heart her long as I can remember and I Music is all that and more. which came from a combina­the rose and justic~;IJ wl!htM e;< have had the privilege to play Ultimately, it all boils down to tion of western music andthe sea and justice, .James and with many talented and diverse one thing: music. When I listen African music, each of whichjustice and light? now. But musicians. Throughout my to music, I listen not to the style evolved over thousands of years 
remembered. Clare. We 
music career I have been in or the lyrics or the bass line or from countless other styles. It isJuan Gonzalo Rose remembered her quiet· timid­jazz bands (big bands and com­anything else. I let the music all music in the end. 
Letter to Maria ness, her laughter; her Christ­bos), rock bands, concert move ..and speak to me. In allTeresa like simplicity·and her saintly bands, marching bands, a reg­my life, I have never failed to be When approaching music, lis­impatience With wrong-doing. 
gae band, and many impromptu moved in some way by a piece ten to it and absorb it. ResistLast week was Ash We gathered in }3gcharist. in bands. The culmination of all of music, be it thrash, classical, the temptation to categorize it, Wednesday. and I stopped at remembrance and tha.nk;sgiv-, 
this in me is a deep love and or rhumba (I'm not saying that judge it and cast it out. It neverthe grotto to light a candle for ing, and· stories shared: respect for music. So, when I I liked everything I heard). This hurt anyone, so don't hurt it.
Clare. I wasn't sure where to Ernan rememb ..... Clare in read letters about what kind of brings me closer to the heart of Most of all enjoy it, love it andput the candle; rthought first diapers; Jay ierl1eJ1lbeted the music is the best and who my troubles. The love of music treat it like a friend. It will
of putting it dow:Qin back; question !>he askeqfifteim 
should be allowed to listen to it has disappeared and has always be there for those openslightly hidden, Peeking o;u.t . years ago.; yM ·· et re-and who is selling out to whom, turned into a hatred of it. enough to let it into theirfrom behind the rest.;; That's membered her . .. i;l> bet I'm bothered. Many musicians and listeners hearts.
where Clare would always be, faithful sheet~washing at the Music is universal. It is one deny the validity of music with
peering out from behind Davenport Cath~llcWorker, 
persons feelings at one point in complaints about other styles of CHRIS MUELLER someone, or something, every and how. w}len a C~$. {.,ewis 
time, a general message to a music. Once one style has been Sophomoretime we took pictures. That's hook was being read, Clare group of people, sound blends, condemned, music is con­Old College how I still remember Clare commented: "Qh yes, he used an art form, a form of enter-demned. Styles of music are not
when she studied at Notre to come over toread to us 
Dame: young, slightly impish, when we were li1;1:\~. lie once .· 
with rosy plump cheeks fram· told us be had wriJten the 
ing her mischievous smile. It's story he was rea 'ng us; but 
hard to imagine her as she we didn'tbelie • " 
grew and mature~:l, as she Cl~re loo~ 
learned about a.gticlllttli'e and saw muebtt 
livestock, as she worked With .•. and wondere 
a cooperative in rural·South + didn;t dC.rmu . mgs 
Africa, as she became a moth-right. She did what she could 
er. It's harder still to imagine to make things better, in Iowa 
her cast off into the dusty and in Natal, anQ, ill the end 
brush, with two bullets in her paid with her.life. for her 
head. closeness to the poor, totheir 
Antonia called me that vulnerability; thejr ~ufferings 
Sunday from Boston; 1 hadn't and their joy~. · It was not 
heard from Antonia for a long death which made Cl&,re a 
time, but now she was telling martyr~ it was her life which 
me that Clare. was dead, that gave witness to f.he ·truth and 
her body had finally been the power of<H~ ' lp:ye.~ 
found on Thanksgiving, six· In the errdrl ft a can~l~ 
teen days after having been bu.rning at f.he .. . . . JJhe c~tn~ 
abducted. That her two chil~ dle rack, and right ogtJ)l 
dren were safe, but orphaned. front. Thol.lghj~ "would sur.: 
That no one knew exactly prise her, Cl!"re has become a 
why, or how, she had been light for those wpo #:n~w and 
murdered, but that the remember her. ·· 
Archbishop of Durban was 
going to celebrate her funeral. 
More phone calls, more CHARLIE KENNEY 
information; old friends recon­Ph. D. progr;im ofGovernment and 
necting, new friends brought Inte(narional Studies 
Rozos presents misleading interpretation of Cuban crises 
Dear Editor: history of advantageous rela­Cubanidad-the Cuban sense of increasingly scarce goods, and plete garbage." . 
tions with the United States. national character transcended the list of rationed items contin­Under a new democratic, 
This letter is in response to Buttressed by Cuba's liberal the American presence on the ues to grow: canned meat, market-oriented leadership, the views imposed by visiting foreign investment laws, island. Cuba's present atmos­undergarments, soap and other Cuba would rapidly retrieve its professor Alberto Rozos, from expanded trade ties with the phere of repression and eco­articles essential for daily place among the most powerful the University of Havana, to United States and reduced nomic crisis has generated a hygiene. Energy shortages also economies in Latin America attendants in a lecture entitled, sugar production throughout powder keg of popular domes­continue to test the Cubans' tol­and restore its tradition of eco­"Nationalism: Crisis and Asia after World War II, Cuba's tic resentment toward the erance for the revolution. The nomic integration with the Revolution in Cuba and Latin national income doubled be­Castro regime. Record numbers government has been rationing Western trade partners. The America." The images tween 1945 and 1958. The of Cuban balseros -makeshift liquid gas for cooking and has dramatic success of more than advanced by the professor are Organization of American raft riders-arriving in Florida reduced electrical power gener­one million Cuban exiles in the misleading to the students, fac­States prepared a 1952 study provide an indication of discon­ation, producing daily blackouts United States testifies to the ulty and staff not familiar with which found Cuba's per capita tent brewing in Havana. Fidel in Havana and other cities. economic potential of a free the Cuban situation. Being a Gross National Product ranked has responded to unrest in The energy and other short­Cuba. More than 40 percent of first generation Cuban­third among Latin American Guba by increasing repression ages have translated into a piti­Cuban-American households American and interacting with nations, behind Argentina and while appealing devotion to ful economic output and gar­have incomes of $60,000 or recently exiled Cubans from the Venezuela. revolutionary ideals. gantuan unemployment. Even more (Hispanic Business, Dec. island has exposed me to the In addition, Cuba's most Despite the recommendations the black market, which had 1993). The. combined income of real Cuban plight, not the Fidel important domestic agricultural from former Spanish finance prospered as the official econo­Cuban-Americans is twice Castro-generated propaganda products -sugar, coffee, to­minister Carlos Solchaga, who my, is now disappearing in Cuba's Gross Social Product. that has deflected all the bacco and rice -were strictly is advising Cuba on its econom­parts of the island because of Fidel's political fair not only responsibility for the Cuban sit­regulated by the Cuban Sugar ic transition to turn around a decreasing production and may remove the most potent uation from the dictator unto Stabilization Institute (ICEA). In devastated economy, nothing growing transportation prob­threat to security in the the United Sates. the 1950's, one must also note has happened. Hesitation over lems. As a result, for the first Western Hemisphere, but will 
First, to call Cuba a "whore that Cuba's sugar exports, proposed reforms is evidence time since Fidel took power, also bring back Cuba to resume house for another country (the always the lifeblood of the that Fidel fears that changes he dissidents inside Cuba have be­her Golden Age. Una Cuba United States)", is just one island nation's economy, was is faced with adopting will gun organizing themselves into Libre would generate tremen­example of the mentality which advantageously affected by U.S. sooner or later cause him to broader groups that are more dous opportunities for all the Fidel has fostered in the island legislation and international lose his absolute control over actively challenging the regime Cuban people and the Western 

over the last thirty years. agreement. Cuban society. to hold elections and begin a business community. In addi­Before Fidel's rise to power on During the late 1950's, am­How much longer will the transition toward democracy. tion, Cuba would become the 
-
Jan. 1, 1959, Cuba ranked trary to the rhetoric presently Cuban people put up with eat­Apparently, the Cuban people anchor for a stable and among the best credit risks and emanating from Havana, pre­ing ratlike jutias while they have had enough of Fidel's love prosperous Latin America. business partners in the Castro Cuba was fond of, and must cater to millions of dollar­of power and his often Western Hemisphere. Havana without doubt in admiration of spending tourists who enjoy the expressed disdain for elections FRANCISCO CANTERO JR. enjoyed a dynamic human and the United States; without ever bounties of the Cuban island? and western-style democracy, Senior natural resource base and a imitating the Americans. Long lines form to purchase which he regularly calls "com-OffCampus 
,.--, --------------· 
'"'· ~-­
1 I, I • I • 
ACCE,NT 
Monday, February 21, 1994 

Fighting a losing battle 
AIDS Ministries! AIDS Assist struggles to increase AIDS education and awareness 
By JENNIFER GUERIN "If you don't do continuing Accent Writer education, people will fall back into risky behaviors," he con­
In the director's report to a tinued. recent AIDS Ministries Beatty and Kennedy both Committee/AIDS Assist newslet­agreed that breaking the stig­ter, Michael Beatty states, ma of AIDS, allowing people to "HIV/AIDS is attacking and release the experience of infecting all of us. Complete AIDS-which society has trans­and frank discussions are need­formed into an inner secret and ed in all segments of our soci­source of shame-is essential in ety. The question is not if but providing adequate care. 
how to educate." "When society can tolerate clients, Beatty replied, "People as well as patients, are oftenBeatty's message is blunt, such denial and such stigma," can't just combat the virus on a unprepared for the experienceperhaps too blunt for some, said Kennedy, "how many must medical level. They also have to of AIDS.
who have chosen to avoid the be staggering around with a combat it on a spiritual and Kennedy told the story of areality of AIDS among them. load like that, afraid to go for emotional level." young man from Notre DameBut both he and Sister Ethne help, afraid to talk about it? 
Kennedy concurred, adding who wanted to volunteer withKennedy, who have worked for How many families must be that she was glad AIDS AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist, but AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist of grieving silently, without sup­Ministries/AIDS Assist was set in the course of his training dis­
Northern Indiana since its port?" 
up as an ecumenical venture. covered that he was uncom­founding in 1989, agree that Kennedy and Beatty have "Whatever people's belief sys­fortable dealing with the emo­improved education is vital in worked with students from tem," she said, "it's terribly tional aspects of the disease. 
combating AIDS and improving Notre Dame to organize the "Some are just not ready,"society's response to those liv­NAMES Project, the AIDS said Kennedy, who appreciateding with the disease. memorial quilt that will be dis­both the openness of the stu­Located in South Bend, AIDS played at Stepan Center this 
'If you don't do contin­
dent and his willingness to getMinistries/AIDS Assist was weekend. 
uing education, peo­engaged in his work. "You muststarted four years ago by the Both long for the quilt to have go at your own pace."
Northern Indiana Conference of an impact on the hearts, as well ple will fall back into risky Kennedy, who has "jour­the United Methodist Church. as the minds, of those who visit behaviors.' neyed" with nine people of dif­Now a non-profit corporation it. 
ferent backgrounds and dif­
with an ecumenical base, it has "I have put a lot of hope in ferent faiths who have died of
twelve employees serving the experience of the quilt," Michael Beatty 
AIDS, sees the experience ofnorthern and central Indiana­said Kennedy. "Seeing the 
the disease as a call to the
with educational and referral outpouring of love, value and Church to reflect on "the mys­programs. loss [in the quilt] is key to tery, the responsibility, and theAccording to Beatty, the or­understanding what is happen­important that they have sup­beauty of sexuality," as well asganization currently works with ing." 
port, and find hope and peace." the many different dimensions80 infected persons and ap­To facilitate these feelings of of ministry. 
proximately 200 affected per­Kennedy, whose first contact 
comfort, the organization Although it pains her to
sons-children, husbands, with AIDS occurred while she strives to provide an environ­watch the statistics and thewives, partners and friends of was chaplain at the University ment where clients feel safe growing number of children,those living with the disease. of Illinois Hospital, told the and accepted. women and teens infected withStatistics show, however, that story of food carriers who 
"Pastoral care," explained the virus, she hopes that
80 to 85 percent of cases re­would leave the trays of AIDS Kennedy, "is to be a loving, "humanity may be growing to­main unreported, making the patients outside their rooms, supportive presence," she wards a deeper sense of unity real number of potential clients refusing to deliver the meals noted. "It is so important the and responsibility for each over 2,000. directly. 
people encounter other peo­other" through the experience"When we first started, we ple." of confronting AIDS. 
were afraid to even let people "Unfortunately, because of 
"There has been some re­
know where our offices were," this moral bias, people can't sponse from [the college com­The questions are many andsaid Beatty, who recognized the see the disease or the patient," munity in South Bend]." said often unanswerable, but thecommunity's growing support Kennedy remarked. 
Beatty, "and we've gotten some lesson that "every life is pre­but stressed the ongoing need "It's been like trying to push a real quality support from some cious, and every death is a loss"for education among citizens. rock up a mountain," she said of those students." is real, admitted Kennedy. 
of her work in AIDS ministry He noted, too, that high Kennedy is grateful for theA frustrating lack of under­and education, "trying to get 
school students in the area response of the Notre Dame
standing about the disease and people to put down their fear have been extremely helpful in and Saint Mary's communities, how to respond to it still per­and listen to the human story." 
peer counseling and education and urges students to be opensists, he said. 
programs. to living towards and praying
"It's a real challenge to An important component of 
Beatty sees an intense chal­for an attitude of acceptance. 
accept the fact that HIV and the services offered by AIDS leng~ in terms of dealing withAIDS are among us. We're still Ministries/AIDS Assist is coun­the age group of 18-25 year­She and Beatty agreed that in a state of denial," insisted seling for both personal rela­olds, because of the feelings of for all age groups, in all areasBeatty. "As long as we don't tionships and spiritual con­immortality and a lack of com­of the community, education on think about it, or talk about it, cerns. 
prehension about the i!)sues both the medical and emotional or make fun of it, then we can When asked about the degree which young people have. aspects of AIDS will be a life­pretend it doesn't exist." to which this counseling helps Volunteers in that age group, saving venture. 

:ACCENT 
Treating the soul: Anthropology professor Press to lecture on the art of medicine 

By BILL FEKRAT 
Accent Writer 
Professor Irwin Press believes there is more to good health care than a solid background in science. 
A good doctor also has a strong bed­side manner, according to Press.. 
"It is necessary to master the art of medicine in order to maximize the sci­ence of medicine," says Press, a teacher in Notre Dame's anthropology depart­ment. 
In his lecture, entitled "Patients vs. Clinicians: How Culture Affects Health and Healing,'' Press will discuss his ideas about how doctors should interact with patients. 
The lecture is being delivered as part of the Center for Social Concerns' Health and Healing Week. 
At the lecture, Press will discuss doc­tors and patients as two separate cul­tures which frequently clash when they meet, because each culture has as­sumptions and expectations of the other. 
"Patients define their sickness as cul­ture tells them to," said Press. He explained that when people feel sick, they often explain the symptoms away. 
For example, Press said that if some­one blames soreness on playing basket­ball the day before, he does not feel it necessary to seek medical care because he or she has assessed a cause to the symptoms. 
When a person does seek medical treatment, according to Press, it is often at the point where sickness and physical symptoms interfere with daily routines and responsibilities. 
This leads to the behavioral and emo­tional aspects of sickness, which makes a patient feel like they are failing in their roles as worker, spouse, lover and other social contexts. 
This threat is just as substantial as the threat of physical sickness. Physicians often fail to see this emotionalism as an additional symptom that contributes to the disease, said Press. 
"Doctors have certain expectations of patients," said Press. 
"Patients are granted a certain amount of emotionalism, but if they talk too much about how their lives are affected by sickness, then suspicions arise that patients are 'acting out,'" said Press. 
"Doctors have certain assumptions about how patients should act, " accord­ing to Press. 
"Patients should not complain too much; they should be compliant; they should not upset anybody; and they should be grateful for the care they are receiving." 
"The body and soul of disease are inseparable," says Press. He believes that medicine needs to be viewed as a social transaction. 
Patients want interaction with their doctors, according to Press, who uses the process of blood tests as an example illustrating this fact. 
He said that there is a direct relation between how easily blood is taken and how friendly the lab technician is while taking the blood. 
Press also stated that he believes most malpractice suits are caused by poor interaction between doctor and patient. 
Press' prescription for this division between the two cultures is to sensitize 
physicians to the effects of disease on 
the personhood of the patient. 
He believes a focus on "bedside man­
ner" will be more important as medical 
practices turn towards HMOs and other 
health plans. 
Doctors with poor interaction skills 
will be fired from these programs due to 
patient drop-ofT. 
Press originally began his research by 
studying aspects of folklore in medicine. 
In 1980-81, Press won a Lilly Fellowship 
and went to the University of Miami 
School of Medicine to observe doctor 
and patient interaction. 
It was during this fellowship that Press developed many of the ideas he is pre­. senting in his lecture. 
Press has taught at Notre Dame for 29 
years, and has offered a course entitled 
"Cultural Aspects of Clinical Medicine," 
wherein students can observe doctor­
patient relationships in the same way he 
did during his own research. 
Press will give his lecture this Thursday evening at 7:30 in the Dooley Room of Lafortune. 
I page 14 
I Early and often the theme for Naticcia-Murphy 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sporn Ediror 
Early and often. 
Those are magic words for any fight fan, particular­ly the blood hungry sort that congragates for the Bengal Bout quarterfinals. 
"Early and Often" would also serve as the perfect title for Rob Naticchia's unanimous decision win over Todd Murphy in the second 175-pound bout Sunday. 
Both fighters landed early and often, blood shed early and often, and the crowd was in a frenzy early and often. 
It was by no stretch of the imagination the best box­ing of the day but certainly the most exciting fight. 
Naticchia established the tone of the fight in the opening minutes of round one. He rushed Murphy and was able to slip past the Cavanaugh Hall sopho­more's jab to land a series of punches. 
It didn't help matters when Murphy and Naticchia locked arms, sending Maticchia to the canvas. Naticchia, a Dillon Hall junior, retaliated with a vene­gance, landing repeatidly as the bell sounded to end round one 
In the second, Natticchia dazed Murphy with numerous shots to the head. A strong right prompted the referee to deliver a standing eight count to Murphy, which drew a chant of "Rocky, Rocky" from Murphy fans as it appeared it would take a monemen­tal comeback to beat Naticchia. 
Mr. Balboa would have envied the attempt by Murphy, his steady stream of jabs finally took its toll on Naticchia. The start of round three was delayed five minutes to stop the bleeding from Naticchia's nose. 
Thanks to Naticchia's nose, the final round was bloody, with both fighters, the referee and most of the ring stained red. The ref gave Murphy another eight count at the midway point, and the pair kept throwing at one another till the end. 
"I looked up in the third round and he was bleeding, but I'm not sure how I did it," said Murphy. "It was a great fight but he deserved to win. I couldn't stop him early." 
Or often. 

Jeff Gerber (center) gives advice to sophomore Clay Scheetz in between The Observer/Sean Farnan rounds of the 175 pound fight. 
Junior Nate Mick in 145-pound action. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
..___N_O_T_IC_E_s_ __.l 1...___-w;_l\N_T_E_D_ __. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­
MENT-fisheries. Many earn Jean Jean the Typing Machine is $2000+/mo. in canneries or $3000­BACK! Call18858 for fast, friendly $6000+/mo. on fishing vessels. on-campus service. Many employers provide benefits. 
LOVING BABYCARE NEEDED  Beautiful apt-bike to campus  LAKEZA S. BALL:  In a hurry ...  
FOR MON. OR WED. MORNINGS.  Summer+ 94-95 yr  Feliz Cumpleanos a ti,  don't worry.  
EXP. +OWN TRANSP. REQ'D.  180/mo w/roommates  Feliz Cumpleanos a ti,  FAX IT!  
233-6657.  Hickory Village 273-8369  Feliz Cumpleanos, LAKEZA  at  
Feliz Cumpleanos a ti.  THE COPY SHOP  
Need ride to/from Baltimore area  To a great friend and RA  LaFortune Student Center  
for 2-spring break. Will help w/gas,  THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ HAPPY BIRTHDAY !I!  NEW LOWER PRICES!  
tolls. Call 634-2849!!!  ROOM NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  Maria  
SCHOOL YEAR 2n3097  

No exp. necessary! For more info SUMMER JOBS/INTERNSHIPS­call: 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584 Average earnings $3,500.00. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
University Directories, the nation's 3 BR, 2 Bath, Frplace, Full base­Roses are red, Holy Cross Associates. Application 
largest publisher of campus tele­ment, 2 car garage, Walk to ND, Violets are blue, deadline---Chile, March 4; USA, LOST: U OF I COLLEGE OF RIDE needed for 2 to St. Louis for phone directories, hires over 250 $900/mo. Evenings: 616-471-7172 I'll be in Australia, March 18. For information contact AGRICULTURE GREY SWEAT­Spring Break. Call Christian @1226 college students for their summer Hope you'll be too. Jeff Hammes, HCA office 1-5521 or SHIRT AND BURGUNDY SCARF sales program. Top eamings Mary Ann Roemer, Center for AT HAGGAR OR NDH HELP! need ride to Pittsburgh $5,000.00 -$6,500.00. Gain valu­FOR SALE Social Concerns, 1-7949. PLEASE CALL DOMINIC X1166 (USC) for spring break. help w/gas, able experience in advertising, THE PRINCETON REVIEW 
tolls, etc. friendly and breathtaking­sales and public relations selling MACINTOSH CLASSIC 114/80, 2 WANTS YOU! DID YOU LEAVE YOUR KEYS IN ly beautiful! Please call Kara, yellow page advertising for your MB RAM (EXPANDABLE TO 10). Do you have high test scores? Are K.J. and Jen, THE OBSERVER OFFICE? WE x2449. thanks! campus telephone directory. LIKE NEW. $550. 2n-1463. you energetic/dynamic? Can you Here's hopes that your years HAVE A KEY RING WITH 4 KEYS Positions also available in other uni­communicate well? Want a fun part­together will be filled with happi­ON IT WITH THE NUMBER 140 versity markets. Expense paid train­time job? We're here on campus ness. ON 2 OF THEM. COME BY THE AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­ing program in Chapel Hill, NC. and have opportunities for part-time OBSERVER & ASK FOR SHIRLEY MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + Looking for enthusiastic, goal orient­1982 PONTIAC 6000, GOOD teaching positions. Pay starts at $11 TO PICK THEM UP. TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! ed students for challenging, well­COND., MANY NEW PARTS, an hour; no teaching experience Top 10 Reasons Why PE's Formal 
(CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, paying summer job. Internships may POWER WINDOWS. MUST SEE required. Call Bash Ended Early Lost: black leather ladies right ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING be available. INTERVIEWS ON TO APPRECIATE. $1300. (800) 480-PREP for more informa­10. The managers at Randall's Inn glove call beth 4994 AND SUMMER SEASONS FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25TH AT 273-5825. tion. didn't know how to party. 
APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT THE CAREER PLANNING AND 9. We didn't break the window. LOST: TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! PLACEMENT,HESBURGH Potter is a dorkll Potter is a dork!! B. Meghan isn't 21. 
NDCiass Ring. CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 LIBRARY. 7. Real ND men stick by their dates. Engraved "Duke '95" 6. They only allow 2 rounds of chan­Lost on Feb. 7 at Campus View NEEDED: PERSONAL SUMMER JOBS -ALL deliers. 
or D-6 parking lot. SPRING BREAK RIDE to NY for 2 Need a Ride to Philly for Spring LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­5. Mark's ND ID didn't prove his Please contact x1939. NYC, Newburgh, Mahwah, Break? Call Susan @ 284-5308 TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS age. Thanks. Poughkeepsie pre!. ADOPTION: Loving, financially ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR 4. We paid for a night and only got Will help$. secure couple longs for a newborn LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-an hour.
FOR RENT 
Coat left in Career & Placement Please call Brian or Jason x1130 to join our family. Please call Nancy 8373 3. Soberowski couldn't break down about 1 1/2 weeks ago. Call and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. the door. 631-5200, ask for Katie. Needed: A ride to either Columbus, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOM HOMES FOR 2. Cab+ Papa John's+ Cops =Too 
Bowling Green, or Cincinnati on RENT. NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM: Meet you major nights Many Visitors. Feb. 25 or 26. Call Carey at x291 0. $225. MO., 2 BDRM: $325. MO. for the College of Business Quality Copies, Quickly. 1. 100 Millers-THIEVED! AVAIL. NOW. GILLIS PROPER­are as follows: THE COPY SHOP LOST: BROWN BARN JACKET SHOE SENSATION Coming to the TIES 272-6306 LaFortune Student Center @ McCormick's Thur. nile with my Concord Mall. Growing retail shoe Marketing 2/17 -6:00 p.m. Phone 631-COPY life in it...please return, no ???s company seeks enthusiastic, inde­2-5 BEDROOM HOMES Management 2/21 -6:00 p.m. 
MOLLY 273-6591 pendent individuals to work full or SECURITY SYSTEM Finance 2/22 -6:30 p.m. It has come to my attention that an part time in retail shoe store. ALL APPLIANCES Accounting 2/22 -7:30 p.m. ad I put in on 1/29 about my sec­Previous experience a plus. Flexible 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in tion was found offensive or inap­hours. Excellent benefits package 232 2595 All meetings will be in Washington, D.C. area wish to propriate by some readers. Though 
Tonya Harding Lost her Morals, and generous discounts available. 122 Hayes-Healy adopt infant brother or sister. Close it was a lighthearted effort and 
Now she'lllose the Gold ... Potential of $5 to $6 with sales PARTY TIME '94-95 extended family in area. Let's help meant in fun, the ad overstepped its Nancy Kerrigan nearly lost her bonus. Please send resume to: Big 6 bedrm. Safe area. Free maid College recommends declaration by each other. Mad/legal paid. Please bounds and this situation will not be knee, Action Enterprises Inc., 253 sevice. Beach V-ball & B. B. courts. March 4. call Jessica or Bob repeated ... P.Stonelake But now she'll find the Gold. America Place, Jeffersonville IN Furnished. Washer & dryer. 1-800-864-8385. 
47130 273-0482 or 234-3831. Sponsored by Sophomore Class. 
---~------------------------~-----~­
Monday, February 21, 1994 
Referee Terry Johnson signals Mike Norbut the winner in 165­
pound action. 
Bengals 
continued from page 20 
in his favor. 
One of the few top fighters to step into the ring was 165-pound favorite and 1993 champion Jeff Goddard. The Dillon Hall sophomore rejected a bye so his parents, in for Junior Parent's Weekend, could see him fight. 
His opponent, John Skinner, probably won't be sending the Goddard's a thank you card for showing up. Skinner lasted 39 sec­onds into the second round before a Goddard left stopped the fight. 
Joe Zirnehelt topped Jake May in another 165-pound matchup which was ref­ferred to at ringside as, "the fight for the right to get pummeled by Goddard." 
The upper weight classes went as expected. Rob Naticchia and Todd Murphy battled in the 175-pound class, thrilling the crowd with a bloody battle from start to finish (see related story). 
The heavyweights took the quarterfinals off but begin fighting Tuesday along with the six other fighters who sat out Sunday's fights. 
The Observer • BENGAL BOUTS 
135-Pound Division Eric Garcia-BYE Jason Anderson-Split Dec.-Ron Jacinto Brian Banigan-Split Dec.-Dan Zepf Jay Wolfersberger-BYE 
140-Pound Division Jeff Gerber-BYE David Morken-Unan. Dec.-Greg Marks John Bradshaw-Unan Dec.-Scott Smoron Rob Nobriga-RSC at 1:19 rd. 2-Andy Gasser 
145-Pound Division Michael Ahern-Unan. Dec.-Joe Hartzell Nate Mick-Split Dec.-Jim Breen Dan Couri-Unan Dec.-Sean Hamer Butch Cabreros-RSC at 1:28 rd. 3-Andrew Dicello 
150-Pound Division Dan Schmidt-Unan. Dec.-John Kmetz Rob Ganz-Split Dec.-David Hellen Casey Pfeifer-Unan Dec.-Matt Kowalsky Chris Rosen-Split Dec.-Tobin Biolchini 
,155-P!)'~~d Dltision Steve Cla?'4lnan, ..t>ee~::J0amon Affinito 
TddgGar11tz-Split Dec.-Ridk Rodg ;-iEticHfllegas-Unan Dec.-Brad P '·~~ La 
Mike~=~Pt1 o~J.~~;iii~ar 
John Christoforetto-Unan. Dec.-Stefan Molina 
170-Pound Division Brian Weiford-BYE Chris Peterson-Split Dec.-Sheldon Fink Mike Farrell-Split Dec.-Dan Adams Nick Harmon-Unan. Dec.-Nolan Koon 
175-Pound Division Kevin O'Rourke-BYE Andy Graff-Split Dec. -Clay Sheetz Rob Naticchia-Split Dec.-Todd Murphy Bob Lalor-Split Dec.-Matt Ford 
180-Pound Division James Bailey-BYE Mike Somerville-Unan. Dec.-Dave Valenti Mike Mantey-Unan. Dec.-Mike Witzman Mike DeBiansi-Unan. Dec.-Tim Mahoney 
----------~-----~~----~-­
page15 
Norbut starts fast, finishes a 
•
wtnner 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
One of the principle rules in Bengal Bout fight­ing is to start slow. 
The trainers and veteran fighters remind each boxer entering the ring to take the first 20 sec­onds and feel out your opponent-to ease into the fight. 
Those words fell on deaf ears before the third fight of the 160-pound division between Mike Norbut and Dave Sullivan. 
Norbut's split decision victory was highlighted by a series of wild flurries from both boxers in the fight's opening minute. 
"Everything we learned went by the wayside," said Norbut, who has been detailing his prepara­tion for The Bouts in a weekly segment for The Observer. 
Much to the delight of the crowd the pair squared up for most of the frrst round in one of the few free-for-ails in the quarterfinals. 
Norbut landed a few wild swings early and took the opening round He ran out of steam in the sec­ond and Sullivan tagged him with a vicious right which staggered the Cavanaugh Hall sophomore. 
The third could have gone either way. Norbut landed a strong left early in the round but Sullivan came back with a flury of his own, but fell short on three judges' cards. 
Both fighters were short of energy in the fmal round, due mostly to their dinegard for the advice of their trainers. 
"At the end I could even throw any punches," said Norbut. "It took forever for the final bell to ring, and when it did I was just happy I had sur­vived three rounds without getting my face punched in." 
Next up for Norbut is a semifinal bout with impressive freshman John Christoforetti who dis­mantled Stefan Molina with a controlled attack. 
"He's a good fighter," said Norbut. "Hopefully I'll listen to the advice and take it slow." 
Anyone interested in reshapingStudent Government next year: 
Pick up application in Student Government Office 2nd floor LaFortune. 
Applications available Monday, February 21-25. 
Application deadline Monday, Feb 28. 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
Demons 
continued from page 20 
Risky business with four fouls. 
"Monty will know next time to restrain himself when he has four fouls," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "He feels as bad about (fouling out) as anyone." 
While Williams and Klein­schmidt were discussing cash, the Blue Demons' Patton was taking charges. 
Patton took four charges and scored 14 points to earn the Wendell Smith Award, given each year to the most valuable player in the DePaul-Notre Dame game. 
"I've taken four charges in a game before, but I've never gotten four called before," he said. "My job is to get the ball to open guys and get some steals to get us going on defense. Today I was just able to hit some open shots(2-3 from the field)." 
Patton also hit 9-for-10 from the line in the final six minutes to protect the Blue Demons' lead, built during the first few minutes of the second half. 
Leading just 31-26 at half­time, DePaul went on an 18-9 run to open a 14-point lead. 
Notre Dame's offense strug­gled early in both the first and second halves. The Irish were scoreless for the first five min­utes of the game and managed just five points in the first eight minutes of the second half. 
Along with a solid defensive effort, DePaul can also point to an 18-point performance from Belefia Parks and 10 points each from Brandon Cole and 
Monday, February 21, 1994 
14, but he made his presence felt in other areas. 
"We did a good job on Klein­schmidt in the first half," MacLeod said. "But he's got a lot of things in his game." Notre Dame got some good offensive balance of its own. Williams and Ryan Hoover each scored 17 and Keith Kurowski added 16. 
After Williams ejection, Kurowski strapped the team on his shoulders for one final run. 
He scored four straight points, including a dazzling spinning layup to pull the Irish to withing eight. But that's as close as they could get. 
"We still had a chance with about four minutes to go, but we took some ill-advised shots trying to get back into it faster than we needed to," MacLeod said. "That was about the end of it for us." 
DEPAUL (73): Kleinschmidt 4-11 6-8 14, Hll13-5 1-3 7, Ravlzee D-2 o-o 0, Parks 5-11 4-4 18, Patton 2-3 9-10 14, Cole 4-11 2-3 10, Bowden 5-10 D-O 10, Currie D-1 D­O 0, Singer 0-0 0-0 0, Macon 0-0 0-0 0. TOTALS: 23-55 22-28 73. 
NOTRE DAME (63): Williams 7-16 2-4 
17, Taylor D-3 D-2 0, Joe Ross 1-1 0-2 2, 
Hoover 4-8 6-7 17, Justice 0-5 0-1 0, 
Kurowski 7-12 1-1 16, White 0-3 2-2 2, 
Cozen 1-2 D-0 3, Hughes D-O 2-2 2, Miller 
2-3 D-0 4, Jon Ross D-0 D-0 0, Boyer 0-D 
0-0 0. TOTALS: 22-52 13-21 63. 
Halftime-DePaul 31, Notre Dame 26. 
3-polnt goals-DePaul 5-17 (Parks 4-7, 
Patton 1-2, Kleinschmidt D-2, Ravizee 0­
1, Cole D-5), Notre Dame 6-19 (Hoover 3­
5, Williams 1-3, Kurowski 1-4, Cozen 1-2, 
Justice D-1, White D-2, Miller 0-1). Total 
fouls (fouled out)-DePaul 20 (none), 
Notre Dame 24 (Williams). Technical 
fouls-DePaul (Kleinschmidt), Notre 
Dame (Williams). Rebounds-DePaul 36 
(Kleinschmidt 8, Hill 8), Notre Dame 34 
(Williams 7). Assists-DePaul 13 
Monty 
continued from page 20 
of a primadonna." 
Kleinschmidt's version is quite different. "He was baiting me. He threw an elbow when I came out and I threw it back at him. We ain't getting punked by no one," said Kleinschmidt, who was held to 14 points, seven below his average. "I think he was frustrated that we were playing him so tough on defense, just as they were play­ing me tough. 
"He was saying how he was going to make mote money than me. He was talking about his financial situation, while I was just worried about winning the ballgame," added Klein­schmidt. 
The situation may have evolved out of another outburst by Williams just before his three-pointer. After Irish guard Lamarr Justice was thrown to the court on a hard foul by De­Paul center Bryant Bowden, Williams came to his aid by pushing Bowden in the chest. 
Bowden was called for an in­tentional foul while DePaul guard Peter Patton, who was named the game's MVP, held Williams back. 
"It was my fault. I shouldn't have gone after him like that," Williams conceded. "But I can't let big men do that to my guards. On the foul they slammed Lamarr to the ground and I let them know they could not do that to my teammates." 
"Monty showed leadership in helping Lamarr," said Irish guard Keith Kurowski, who sparked the Irish off the bench with 16 points. 
Whether Williams was still intent on protecting his team­mates and demonstrating lead­ership during the altercation with Kleinschmidt remains to be seen, but it obviously cost the Irish in the end. 
"It got heated, but I didn't think think I should have drawn a technical. It's too bad the game ended this way," noted Williams, who finished the contest with 17 points. 
to~ '2.6 '~JAYS 
-\o heLp SA"e-me 
~{l.il-\ CM-L. ,..~-LffiS-8887· 

tl 
Earth Share.... 
r Take, 
a Coffee 
~eak~ 
Costa Rica $165 Guatemala $155
-
Columbia $330 
Kenya $709 
Java $650 
Fares are each Wfft baSed on o roundtrip purchose 
from Chicogo. Taxes oot included and restrictions 
apply. Coli for other v.aldwide destinations. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels magazine 

(Kleinschmidt 4, Cole 4), Notre Dame 11
Bryant Bowden. 
The Observer/KEic Ruethlling 
(White 5). Turnovers-DePaul 11
Kleinschmidt finished seven
Notre Dame' s Lamar Justice attempts one of his five shots over 
(Kleinschmidt 4), Notre Dame 17
points under his average with
DePaul's Kris Hill. Justice came up empty on all five and failed to score 
(Williams 5). Attendance-10,429. 
The STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE is NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
for the 1994-95 academic year 
in all areas: 
Lafortune Building Managers  Stepan Building Managers  
Lafortune Information Desk  Ballroom Monitors  
Sound Technicians  24 Hour Lounge Monitors  
Games Room Attendants  Irish Express Clerks  
Building Set Up Crew  Office Assistants  

Applications are available at the Lafortune Information Desk 8t Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune. Deadline for applications is Friday, March 4. 
Hey Computer Users! 
Check out these incredible new low prices and colorthe campus! 

HP DeskWriter 550C Printer for the Mac 
• HPspersonalplain-paperprinter farthe Macintosh -integrates laser-qualityblackprintingwith cawenientcolorcq::><:lblity • Fastpl1ntspeeds • CompaliblewithA!+JieSyslem 7.0 

[h£1 ~!~.Z:=~~ 
Authorized Dealer · Adobe and Po.1·tScript are registered trademark.< of Adobe Systems. Inc., in the U.S.A. and other cmmtrie.<. 
Notre Datne Con1puter Store • Roon1 112 CCMB • 631.-7477 
The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor Saint MarY,s News Editor Saint Ma.rr.s Sports Editor Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Any full time student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Applicants are asked to submit a 1 page personal statement and resume to Beth Regan no later than 5 p.m. Monday, February 21. For more information, contact Beth at 631-4540 or 284-4453. 
HP DeskJet 550C Printer for the PC 
• HPspremierpersonal300dpi pl1nterintegratesaffordablelaser­qualityblackprintngwithconvenient 
color • Fastpl1ntspeeds • 13Scalablefonlsforwindovvs 


Monday, February 21, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
1 
! 
I
Slumping Irish icers fall behind Women on the road 1 I I 
j
early again, lose 8-2 to Falcons 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 
When the going gets tough, the tough get going. 
At least that is what the cliche says. 
Clearly, the going has been tough for the Notre Dame hock­ey team (1-11-2 in their past 14 outings). Thus far, the Irish have not gotten tough enough. 
On Friday night, the Irish dropped their sixth consecutive game at the hands of Bowling Green by a score of 8-2. 
As has been the case all too often recently, Notre Dame came out flat and fell behind quickly. Compounding that tendency is the fact that the Irish do not have the quick­strike offense that is needed to come back in these games. 
In this game, Notre Dame found itself down 3-0 after the first period. BG's leading goal scorers, Brian Holzinger, got sparkmg the team. It worked, thmgs. That's what has hap­the Falcons rolling with a at least for a short time. pened." power play tally at the 7:31 Troy Cusey took a pretty feed With just 19 seconds left BG's mark. Teammate Jason Clark from Chris Bales and converted Sean Pranger lit the lamp. For added two more goals by the to cut the lead to 3-1. all intents and purposes, that end of the period. That would be as close as the was lights out for the Irish. 
"We dug ourselves a hole," Irish would get, for three min­Jay Matushak scored for the said Jamie Ling. "It just kept utes later, Falcon John Irish in the third period, but getting bigger." Helbring stuffed home a loose that would be all. Three more 
The second period saw a puck in the crease. Falcon goals accounted for the change in net as coach Ric "We're struggling," said Ling. 8-2 final. Schafer replaced Brent Lothrop "Anytime you're struggling, it Can the going get any with Greg Louder in hopes of means you're not doing the lttle rougher? Possibly. 

CAMPUS BANDS! 
March 25~ 1994 Applications for this huge 
BATTLE OF THE BANDS 
are now available in 203 LaFortune Entries are limited so apply now! 
By DYlAN BARMMER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will hope that the road continues to be kind to them, as they embark on a three game jaunt over the next week. 
The Irish will play three away games in the next seven days, beginning with a game against the Louisville Cardinals tonight at 7:00 at Cardinal Arena. 
Tonight the Irish will hope to begin another winning streak. The team saw their five game streak snapped at home last Thursday night, when they fell to the LaSalle Explorers, 75-85. The loss definitely took some wind out of the team's then bil­lowing sails, but a total collapse of the ship is not likely to fol­low. 
Following Thursday's loss, the Irish stand at 16-6, and remain atop the Midwestern Collegiate Conference with a 7­2 record in MCC play. Barring a collapse, the Irish will finish first in the MCC, and for now, remain the premeir team in the conference. Success in their remaining four games of the season will enable the Irish to enter the MCC tournament not only on top statistically, but emotionally as well. 
Coming off a loss should. not 
pose too much of a problem for 
the Irish. In all but once case, 
Notre Dame has come away 
victorious the next night out. 
Tonight should be no exception. 
The Cardinals are 7-14 over­all, including a 5-2 mark at home. The team is led by six foot seior guard Jody Martin, who is averaging 19.2 points and 9 rebounds a game. An­other tough player for Louisville is 6-1 sophomore for­ward Kristin Mattox, who aver­ages 14.4 points and 5.3 rebounds per game. Mattox is also the Cardinals' leading three point shooter, hitting 37.7 percent of her three point shots. 
One problem that the Cardi­
nals may present to the Irish is 
their height advantage. 
Louisville is a much taller team 
than most of the MCC teams the 
Irish <;~.re used to facing. The 
Cardinals boast six players over 
six feet, while the Irish have 
just four such players, the 
tallest being senior Kristen 
Knapp and freshman Katryna 
Gaither, both of whom stand at 
6-3. This may slightly alter 
Notre Dame's game, but not in 
a big way 
The Irish will be led by lead­ing scorer Beth Morgan. Mor­gan is coming off a 22 point performance in the LaSalle Joss, and leads the team in scoring with a 17.2 points per game average. Junior forward Letitia Bowen, who averages -10.8 points and 9.8 rebounds a game, point guard Kara Leary, and center Tootie Jones are also playing well of late. The bench has been a strongpoint for most of the season, and is a crucial element is the team's 
success. 
Following tonight's game, the Irish will be left with three re­maining games, all within their 
-
conference, before the start of the MCC tournament on March 5. 
[}{!AlP IPV ~ TI n ©.>[1\!} lr!XI~ ~ TI n~ 
YOU ARE "ONE IN A MILLION," SEAN MEE! 
LOVE, 
MOM, DAD AND FAMILY 
Tonight!! 
The Computer Applications Honor Society Presents 
Ernst & Young 
Management Consulting 
Monday February 21, 1994 7-8pm Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Representatives from Ernst & Young's Management Consulting practice will discuss opportunities with their firm. They will be interviewing for summer positions in the near future. This is a great opportunity to learn about their practice. Hope to see you there!! 
All Are Welcome!!! 
-· 
.. 
• I, 
£P~ag~e:_1~8~----------------------::::;;--T~h~e::_:O~b~se:;rv~e~r-=--·~S~P~O~R~T~S~--=:-----:=:-----:--==-------=--M_onday, February 21, 1994 
Won1en have 2-1 \Veekend 
By KATE CRISHAM Sports Writer 
The third time didn't prove 
the charm. 
The 18th-ranked Notre 
Dame women's tennis team 
blemished their otherwise stel­
lar weekend performance 
yesterday, losing 7-2 to region­
al foe Northwestern. 
The Irish had defeated 16th­ranked Miami 5-2 on Friday, and Kentucky 5-4 on Saturday, before running out of gas against the Wild·cats on Saturday. 
Head coach Jay Louderback refused to blame the loss on the grueling weekend schedule against three highly competitive teams. 
"We should be able to play three in a row." said Louderback. "Usually we com­pete best in a pressure situa­tion." 
"It's especially disappointing because Northwestern is a re­gional team, and it's important to do well against regional teams," he said. 
"It (the loss) is not good at 
all." 
Louderback did praise his 
team's play against Miami and 
Kentucky. 
"I thought we played best 
against Miami," Louderback 
said. "We also played well at 
times againt Kentucky, espe­
cially at the end." 
The Irish dropped only two matches against Miami, sopho­more Holyn Lord's 2-6, 3-6 loss to Caroline Hora at number­two singles and senior Lisa Tholen's 6-7, 4-6loss to Rachell Viollet. Sophomore Wendy Crabtree defeated Michelle Fry 6-3, 6-1 at number-one singles and sophomore Sherri Vitale defeated LeAnn Gutkin 6-3, 6­
2. Senior Christy Faustmann defeated Katy Fairweather 6-1, 6-0 and freshman Erin Gowen defeated Jana Lipkin 6-0, 6-0 to seal up the victory for the Irish. 
In Saturday's match against Kentucky, the Irish received double wins from Crabtree and Lord. Crabtree defeated Sue Bartl 6-3, 6-3 at number one singles before teaming with Tholen to defeat Erica Gianci and Sheri Bash 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 at number-one doubles. Lord defeated Gianci 7-5, 6-2 at number-two singles, then joined with junior Laura Schwab to defeat Bartl and Courtney Allen 7-5, 1-6, 6-1 at number-three doubles. 
The luck of the Irish ran out in the match against Northwestern, however. Crabtree was the only winner in singles, defeating Elissa Kim 6-3, 6-4 in number-one singles. In doubles, the 20th-ranked, number-one doubles duo of Crabtree and Tholen defeated Kim and Branaca Elsbury 6-4, 6-3 to provide the only win for the Irish. 
Louderback hopes that the team's disappointment over the loss to Nor~hwestern will trans­late into increased motivation for the upcoming National Team Indoors. 
"We have two weeks before the National Indoors," said Louderback. "We have to work on our doubles, and keep com­peting against each other in practice." 
"We've got to bounce back." 
Men's Tennis coasts to easy7-0 victory 
By PHIL LANGER Sports Writer 
The 14th-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team simply took care of business this weekend by shutting out a tough and tal­ented Wisconsin squad 7-0. The Irish failed to lose a set in what many believe was their best showing of the year. 
"It was our finest match of the season," commented Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss, "we controlled the play in both singles and doubles. The play­ers were able to set a tone that Wisconsin couldn't counter." 
Fifth-year senior and emo­tional leader, both on and off the court, Andy Zurcher led the charge by beating David Ortiz 6-1, 6-1 at No. 1 singles. 
In addition, freshman phe­nom Ryan Simme, No. 32 in the nation, beat Todd Koehler, 6-2, 6-1; sophmore Mike Sprouse 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
defeated Jordan Richman, 6-2, 6-4; senior Todd Wilson beat Aaron Dubie, 6-2, 6-2; soph­more John Jay O'Brien defeat­ed Jason Zuckerman, 6-3, 6-2; and freshman Ron Mencias beat Mike Goldsetin, 6-3, 6-3. 
The dangerous doubles trio was exceptional this weekend as seniors Andy Zurhcer and Allan Lopez pulled out a 9-8 victory over Ortiz/Koehler, sophmores Mike Sprouse and Jason Pun remained undefeat­ed by beating Richman!Malcom Thorne, 8-4, and Todd Wilson and Ryan Simme impressively defeated Dubie/Zuckerman, 8­1. 
The next obstacle on the way to the NCAA championship for the 7-1 1rish is the National Team Indoor Tournament, held in Louisville Kentucky, where three top .twenty teams anx­iously await their arrival. 

The N.D Ultimate Team has practioo Monday Feb 21 and Wednesday Feb 23 at 11:15 in Loftus. Please bring $10 dues and get ready for the tournamnet on the 26th. Everyone is still wel­come whether you come to practice or not. Queries? Call Tony at 232-7316 or Dave x3410. 
RecSports is offering IH and Grad/Fac/Staff Baseball and IH Lacrosse with the deadline being Feb 24th. Captains' meet­ing for Lacrosse will be at 5pm with both baseball meeting at 
6pm. Also, any interested umpires should show up for meeting at 6:30pm. All meetings are on Feb. 24th in JACC Auditorium. 
Toastmasters of Notre Dame Presents: 
"How to Stand Out In Your Interview" 
Using New Interviewing Techniques 
Conducted by Director of Business Communications: 
Professor James O'Rourke 
Tuesday, February 22 7 p.m., 126 DeBartolo 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents: 
ARaisinintheSm 
by LorraineHansberry 
Washington Holl University of Notre Dome Wednesday, February 23-Soturdoy, February 26, ot 8:10p.m. Sunday, February 27, ot 2:30p.m. 
Mo o r e 


Monday, February 21, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
SPELUNKER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
nlf:'l l>O, HowE.vt:R, WANT To GO OUT WIT)-t CE.LE.BRITIES. 
I'M GoNNA l}SE MY UNCANt-f'/ RESEMBLANCE. Til TillS YA­HOO TO PL.'-/ M'/ WAREs Wm-t n-IE LADIES. 
BILL WATTERSON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
WANfilA 
L•~-r TooA"l" 
I 
ACROSS 38 Revised 40Ancient
1 Like Job beginning
8 Bob or beehive 14 Leisurely 41 Off course 
musical pieces 42 Foggy Bottom 15 Decrees boat? 17 Pentagon 46 Narc's collar 
advocate? 
50"Since-­
19 Parlor piece HaveYou" 
20 Ex-Knick coach 51 Not for 
Jackson 21 Author of "Life 52 Juan's uncle 
in London" 53 Pescadores 22 Heart of France neighbor 24 Part 59 Reno's piano 
25 Visit Robert practice? Reich? 
62Tympanic31 Medical membrane 
apprentice 63 Guides, in a32 Ease way37 Blue "Yellow 64 Brews tea 
Submarine" characters 65 Menu listings 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
I 
DOWN 
1 Falsifies accounts 2 Chick ender 3 White House heavyweight 4 Beach Boys' "-Around" 5"--kleine Nachtmusik" & Titan tip 7 Poetic monogram 8 Spa installation 9 Maestro Toscanini 10 Words often exchanged 11 Twice as unlikely 12 Down Under dog 
13 "Love Story" star 
16 January 1 song 

ending 18 Riding the waves 
33 Friend of Ernie 46 First or home, 55 Ovid's way 
23 Bullfight cries 34 Sills solo e.g. 56 Oenologist's 35 Caterpillar 47 Last of the interest Mohicans
construction 26 Unwanted 36 Advantage 48 Genesis
difficulty 57Entr'­
58 Costner classification, 38Calling 49 Spanish character 
once company squiggle 60 Prior, to Prior 
27 Printing style: 39 Intersection 54--were (so to Abbr. maneuver speak) 61G.I.­
28 Hawaiian state 43 Asks for a loan 44 They trip up 
bird Get answers to any three clues 
29 Kingston and foreigners 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
others 45 Magician's 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
30 Fee schedule sound effect 
The Acoustic Cafe 
Come for the music, the atmosphere, or just for the fun! 
This and every Thursday night in the Huddle 


Jnte~ested in w~iting 1 editing1 photog~aphy1 design/ 0~ g~aphics? 
The Obse~ve~ is hi~ing nowl 
Call The Obse~ve~ at 631-7471 o~ stop by the office on the thi~d Boo~ of Lafo~ttAne fo~ mo~e info~mation. 
DINING HALL 
North by Nothwest 
Starring Cary Grant 
Thursday , Feb 24 in the Montgomery Theatre Showing at 7:30 and 10:30 
Admission $1 
.._, 
------~------~
-~~--·----·---­
SPORTS 

Monday, February 21, 1994 
Bengal Bouts open quietly 
By GEORGE of the premier
:. j .~.
DOHRMANN fighters earning Sports Editor quarterfinal byes, it was a 
Thugs and '\l"' 
day for the the unskilled unheralded to needn't apply. shine. This is the Ben-After compet­gal Bouts­itive bouts in boxing for the the 135 and sophisticated Notre Dame 140-pound classes the bell rang man-minus the blue blazer. on the 145-pound division 
The quarterfinals of the an­which was tagged the bout's nual Bengal Mission Bouts most competitive after the pair­were suprisingly tame under ings were released Thursday. the lights of Stepan Center The favorite Michael Ahern Sunday. Just as DuLac would advanced easily over senior Joe have scripted, there were Hartzell, but then Dan Couri skilled boxers between the excited the fans with a beating ropes in nearly all 34 bouts, no of junior southpaw Sean controversial decisions, few low Hamer. blows and only small puddles of Couri's opponent in the semi­blood. finals will be impressive fresh­
"There were very few mis­man Butch Cabreros who matches," said the top seed in ended his fight with a stiff right the 150-pound division Dan at 1:28 in the third. Schmidt. "We had more boxers The 155-pound division also who knew what to expect and proved to be highly balanced. that resulted in a lot of close All the favorites advanced, but fights." not without work. Freshman 
Eleven of the decisions were Todd Garlitz battled for a split split and only four fights didn't decision over sophomore Rick go the distance. The first few Rodgers in the division's closet weight classes started The fight. Rodgers forget a vital Bouts on a thrilling note and piece of protective equipment the last divisions excited the delaying the start of the fight, crowd enough to assure filled . and also forget about Garlitz seats for Tuesday's semifinals. uppercut in the third which 
All the top seeds a.dvanced may have turned the decision but most with a little more diffi­culty than expected. With most see BENGALS I page 15 
Demons cash in on Irish mistakes 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
Monty Williams is Notre Dame's money player. 
But his finances may have gotten in the way during Sun­day's 73-63 loss to DePaul. 
A verbal battle between Williams and DePaul's Tom Kleinschmidt escalated into a full-blown economic discussion, earning both players a techni­cal foul. 
It was Williams fifth foul, forcing him out of the game with four minutes remaining and Notre Dame trailing 57-46. 
"I came into the game and he threw a little shove at me," Kleinschmidt said. "Then he was saying how he was going to make more money than me. I don't know if he was frus­trated or what." 
Williams' frustration was evi­dent when he went after De­Paul's Bryant Bowden after a hard foul on Lamarr Justice. 
And when Kleinschmidt en­tered the lineup 20 seconds later Williams continued jaw­ing to protect his teammates from what he felt was unneces­sary roughness. 
see DEMONS/ page 16 

Men's Tennis Andy Zurcher led the Irish to an easy victory 
.. 
over the badgers of Wisconsin. 
see page 18 

Inside SPORTS 

Irish Hockey Troy Cusey tallied for the Irish but it was not enough as Notre Dame fell again 
see page 17 
Williams goes a bit too far to win By JONATHAN JENSEN Associate Sports Editor  
Often Monty Williams finds himself doing everything he possibly can to pull out a win for Notre Dame. With just over four minutes left in yester­day's game against DePaul, he may have gone a bit too far. Just after Williams had cut a 14-point DePaul lead to 11 on a three-pointer and the Irish had forced a DePaul turnover. Williams confronted Blue Demon star Tom Kleinschmidt near half-court. What happened next may have cost Notre Dame the game. A bump escalated into a shouting match between the two, drawing a double techni­cal and sending Williams out of the game for good with his fifth personal foul. Without Williams the Blue Demons coast­ed to a ten-point win, eliminating any hopes for a postseason appearance for Williams in his final season in a Notre Dame uniform. According to Williams, Kleinschmidt "walked by me and gave me a shot tothe elbow. He called by something to the effect see MONTY I page 16  


Women's Hoop Kara Leary and Notre Dame's women's basketball team look to bounce back from loss at Louisville see page 17 
... 

