


Monday, September 12, 1994• Vol. XXVI No.ll THE INDEPENDENT NE\VSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC big sisters a big help to new students 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
News Writer 
The Big Sister/Little Sister Program is offered to incoming freshmen at Saint Mary's Col­lege to help new students deal with the transition between high school and college life. 
The program was begun sev­eral years ago by members of the student body with the intent of offering new students at Saint Mary's a source of sup­port during the first few weeks of school, according to student coordinator Aimee Heimann. 
During their meetings with their orientation groups, fresh­men were given the op­portunity to sign up to receive an upperclassmen as a big sis­ter. 
The upperclassmen then pro­vide the freshmen with another familiar face on campus, an avenue for meeting new people through their big sister, and, in the best possible situation, a new friend. 
Sophomores Hiemann and Kathleen Michaels volunteered to direct the program this year for the new freshmen; they hoped to improve upon last year's program, so that fresh­men would have a more posi­tive experience. 
They were disappointed, however, with the turnout of the upperclassmen, according to Michaels. As a result, many freshmen who signed up for the program were not con­tacted by an upperclassman. 
Currently, the interaction between the upperclassmen and the freshmen is strictly interpersonal: there are no group activities planned, and it is the responsibility of the upperclassmen to contact the new students. 
Ultimately, Hiemann and Michaels hope to expand the program so that every new stu­dent will automatically be pro­vided with a Big Sister. Heimann hopes to plan group activities that will enable the freshmen to meet other stu­dents who are in different classes. These plans are de­pendent on an increase in the response from the upper class­es. 
Organizational meetings will begin in February to increase student interest in the pro­gram. 


Clinton gives thanks to initial volunteers 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 
ABERDEEN, Md. 
President Clinton, worshiping in a military chapel here Sunday, thanked the first recruits to his national service program for fulfilling "our God-given responsibility to serve our fellow human beings." 
The president and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton attend­ed services at the Aberdeen Proving Ground, a weapons facility in central Maryland. The visit was designed to pro­mote the president's AmeriCorps initiative, a sweep­ing collection of old and new community service programs offering college education to its workers. 
The program formally com­mences Monday when Clinton plans to swear in nearly 15,000 AmeriCorps recruits, capping his 2-year-old campaign for the service. 
Clinton spoke from the pulpit to a congregation of about 300. 
"This is a special service that reaffirms our relationship to our God and our God-given responsibility to serve our fel­low human beings," he said. 
With health care reform in jeopardy and his popularity dropping, the president returned from his summer vacation hammering on the all­American themes of family val­ues, personal responsibility and public service. 
"Service to others is some­
thin!!" evervone r.an do. and 
something everyone should do because of our relationship to our God, our responsibility to others, and our responsibility to ourselves," he said Sunday. 
The national service pro­gram, which fulfils a cor­nerstone pledge of Clinton's presidential campaign, is a $360 million effort to put 20,000 mostly young Americans to work in four areas: education, health and human needs, the environment and public safety. 
The workers will receive minimum-wage pay, free health care and a $4,725 edu­cational voucher for one year of work. The $4,72 5 can be used for college, vocational education or to pay off college loans. They can work up to two years. 
If Congress extends the pro­gram, the White House hopes to spend a $1.5 billion over three years to pay for 100,000 workers. 
Attending church with Clinton were about 30 mem­bers of the National Civilian Community Corp., a branch of AmeriCorps that trained people from along the East Coast at the Aberdeen base to fight for­est fires in the West. 
Clinton shook their hands on the way out of church. 
"Your country has given you the opportunity to serve," he said during the service. "You have assumed the responsibili­ty, and our American family is much stronger, and better, and richer as a result." 

The Observer/ Cynthia Exconde 
Having a ball 
Saint Mary's freshman Sherstin Truitt takes shape as a human bowling ball at the Saint Mary's Twilight Tailgate. The Tailgate also featured a Velcro Wall and tye-dyeing. 



Crash investigation continues 
By BUCKY GLEASON 
Associated Press 
ALIQUIPPA, Pa. 
The possibility that a jet engine thrust reverser or a malfunctioning rudder caused the deadly crash of USAir Flight 427 is merely speculation, investigators cautioned Sunday. 
National Transportation Safety Board member Carl Vogt urged people not to read too much into the discovery that one of six devices that activate thrust reversers on the right engine of the doomed Boeing 737 was found in a deployed position. 
"In the event of an inadver­tent deployment of the thrust reversers you would expect to see some reaction in the engine, and we don't see that," Vogt said. 
"How much were they deployed, if at all, and what effect it will have, we'd have to look into much more," he said. "But that's really speculative at this point." 
Thrust reversers are used to slow a plane after it lands and can only be deployed by the pilot. 
A cautionary note also was sounded by John Nance, an air safety analyst in Seattle and 20­year commercial airline pilot. 
"Anyone in the industry or out of the industry ... who jumps to a conclusion or even a preliminary conclusion based on early evidence is going to be embarrassed later," Nance said. "I've been there." 
Nance said the possibility of a problem with the right engine's thrust reverser didn't make sense, because witnesses said the plane dipped left while a problem with the right thrust reverser would cause the plane to dip right. 
The jet crashed Thursday night six miles from Pittsburgh International Airport as it was preparing to land. The plane plunged 6,000 feet in 23 sec­onds, hit the ground at more than 300 mph and killed all132 people aboard. 
Boeing spokesman Steve Thieme said no problems ever have been reported with thrust reversers on Boeing 737s. 
"It's still too early to say what's happened here," he 
said. "We'll assist the NTSB in any way we can to help deter­mine the cause of this crash." 
Thrust-reverser systems on Boeing 737s, 747s, 757s and 767s have been a concern since the May 1991 crash of a 767 in Thailand that killed 223 people. The plane, operated by Lauda Air of Austria, went out of con­trol after its left-side thrust reverser activated. 
A two-year investigation failed to determine why that engine reversed. Boeing began installing new locks on engines for 757s and 767s in 1992 on a recommendation from the Federal Aviation Administration. 
Pilots had various theories about why the USAir jet crashed, but agreed that no pilot could avoid a crash if a reverser deployed in flight. 
"The thrust reverser could flip the plane over in a heart­beat," said a veteran pilot from American Airlines who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "At that point, you're not even dealing with an airplane. You're dealing with something falling out the sky." 


---~ 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, September 12, 1994 
• Inside Column 

It's not 
always in the 
genes 

• World at a Glance 
With $335 million, Spielberg is highest-paid entertainer in 1993-94 
NEW YORK cassettes, lunchboxes, underpants and other merchan­
Steven Spielberg, whose dino-thriller "Jurassic Park" dise are calculated, Barney will amass $84 million for grossed more than $900 million at the box office, has creator Sheryl Leach and her father-in-law publisher, bumped Oprah Winfrey as the highest-paid entertainer, Richard Leach. 
We  were raised by the  
same parents. We went to  
the same schools. We had  
the  same  teachers,  the  
same rules at home. We  By Krista Nannery  
shared the same toys and  Assistant Viewpoint  
watched  the  same  TV  Editor  
shows. We are both vora­ 
cious readers and avid  
writers. We like the same  
music and the same cloth­ 
ing. We share the same  
views  on  controversial  

issues and often finish each other's sentences. We've led fairly similar lives; it's impossible not to when you're reared in the same family as brother and sister. 
People don't believe that he's my brother. Teachers that I had in high school have approached me and asked how it's possible. I've asked myself the same question. While I man­aged to graduate in the top of my senior class, my brother was lucky if he passed ceramics. While I had a relatively clean conduct record, my brother was on a first name basis with the dean of discipline. While I consider myself to be relatively mild mannered, I pity the person who is on the receiving end of my brother's temper. 
I am 20 years old and a junior at Notre Dame. My brother is almost 18 and a high school drop out. I worry about the future and fmding a job and supporting myself and making ends meet. My brother works 20 hours a week as a tow truck dispatcher and uses his spare time to master Sega's latest offering. If I'm not going to be coming home some night, I call my parents and let them know. My brother has disappeared for days on end without a word. I've never been arrested. He's come pretty darn close on more than one occasion. I love my brother, but some­times it's very difficult. 
How did this happen? How did two relatively normal people produce two children with totally different value systems and priorities? Is any­one at fault or is this something that just hap­pened? Is there anything wrong with being a high school drop out? Will he ever go back? I have no answers. 
School was never the place for my brother. This isn't something recent; it's been going on for 17 years. Even getting him onto the bus in grammar school was an ordeal. Give him a biol­ogy textbook and he's lost; but put him in front of a computer and he can do anything. Ask him to write a poem for homework and he can't (or won't) do it. But give him an empty notebook and a pen on a day when he has nothing else to do, and he'll write you something that you are guaranteed to be impressed with. 
In some ways, I envy his attitude. He's very calm and very relaxed about everything. My parents and I are more concerned with his edu­cation than he is. He's not exactly happy with the situation as it stands, but he really has no desire to change it. 
I don't know what will happen next or if there is even a solution. He doesn't want a real job; he just works enough to pay for car insurance. He really doesn't want to go back to school, although I hope that he will get his GED. I've tried to seduce him with stories of college life, but he has no desire to further educate himself. I can only hope that his feelings will change in the next few years. In the meanwhile, I try to be as supportive and encouraging as possible; any­thing less would harm an already fragile rela­tionship. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Today's Staff 
News Lab Tech Liz Foran Nicky Batill Katie Murphy Michael Hungeling 
Sports Production Matt Casey David Diaz Joe Villinski Elizabeth Harnisch 
Viewpoint Graphics Suzy Fry Chris Mullins 

he was 16, will make an estimat­ed 1993-94 total of $335 million, the magazine said in its Sept. 26 issue. 
That's a record for the eight years Forbes has been compiling the list of the top 40 best-paid entertainers. The previous record of $200 million was set by Michael Jackson in 1988-89. 
Television talk-show hostess Winfrey. who became the first woman to head the Forbes Top 40 Entertainers list last year. came in as No. 2 this year with a combined estimated 1993-94 take of$105 million. 
Forbes says basing its ranking on combined two-year estimated gross earnings provides a more accurate assessment of an enter­tainer's overall income, which can change capriciously from year to year. 
Winfrey was followed by another Jurassic-era phenom, Barney, the purple, roly-poly, oversized dinosaur who delights 3-year-olds and irks some adults with his syrupy public television show. When 1993-94 sales from toys, 
Forbes reported Sunday. ,.---------------------, "In Hollywood it's the year of The 46-year-old director-pro-
Top Ten Best-Paid Entertainers 

the dinosaur," Forbes said in its ducer, who cleared $100 from cover story. 
Steven Spielberg, whose dine-thriller "Jurassic Park" 
grossed more than $900 million at the box office, has
his first feature film, made when It said Spielberg's take from
bumped Oprah Winfrey as the highest-paid entertainer, 
Fire closes New York City's Penn Station 
NEW YORK 

A smoky train fire closed Penn Station for nearly three hours Sunday, shutting down passenger service on Amtrak and two large suburban commuter lines and forcing the evacuation of hundreds of people. Nine people suffered minor injuries. The shutdown affected thousands of Amtrak passengers in the busy Northeast Corridor be­tween Washington and Boston, as well as an Amtrak line that runs into upstate New York, said Amtrak spokesman Michael Stewart. About 20 trains were delayed and sev­eral were canceled. Hundreds of travelers filled side­walks across the street from the mid-Manhattan station beneath Madison Square Garden as smoke billowed out of vents and entrances. 
Stage-screen actress Jessica Tandy dies 
NEW YORK 

Jessica Tandy, who won an Academy Award at age 80 for her portrayal of a spirited Southern matriarch in "Driving Miss Daisy," died Sunday after a four­year battle with ovarian cancer. She was 85. Her husband, actor Hume Cronyn, was by her side when she died about 6 a.m. at their home in Easton, Conn., said Leslee Dart, the couple's 


press agent. Tandy's acting career spanned more than 60 years, mostly on stage in New York and London. She was Broadway's original Blanche DuBois in the 194 7 produc­tion of Tennessee Williams' "A Streetcar Named Desire" that co-starred Marlon Brando as Stanley Kowalski. 
"Jurassic Park" alone will total about $250 million after the video is released in October, by far the most any individual has ever made from a movie. 
The dinosaur isn't the only aged theme in this year's rank­ing, which also is populated by a number of pop-music relics who went back on tour to enthusiastic crowds and made the list for the first time. 
Pink Floyd came in as No. 4, with a combined 1993-94 take of $62 million. Barbra Streisand, who lured fans willing to pay $1,000 apiece for her first public singing appearances in nearly three decades, was No. 6, at $57 million. After a bitter 14-year split, the 

Eagles reunited with a tour and album that won them the 
No. 7 spot at $56 million. The Rolling Stones, led by mid­
dle-aged rockers Mick Jagger and Keith Richards pro­
moting their new album, grabbed the No. 9 spot at $53 
million. 

Astronauts fire jets at longest boom ever 
CAPE CANAVERAL 

Discovery's astronauts fired their steering jets Sunday at the longest boom ever extended from a space shuttle, an eight-story-tall arm used to measure damage from engine exhaust. "It's an awesome sight," astronaut Susan Helms said of the 82-foot boom suspended over the shuttle cargo bay. Instruments at the end of the boom measured the pressure and heat of the jet exhaust as well as conta­minants. any of which could ruin solar panels, radiators and other large structures on a space station. The first shuttle-station docking is scheduled for next May, when Atlantis flies to Russia's Mir. Shuttles also would have to dock frequently with an international space station that's supposed to be built in orbit beginning in 1997. 
Rep. Gonzalez receives JFK courage award 
BOSTON 

Rep. Henry. B. Gonzalez, who led investigations into the faltering savings and loan industry and U.S. aid to Iraq, received the Profile in Courage Award on Sunday at the John F. Kennedy Library. "'He and I came from different worlds, but we traveled a common path, we shared the same goals," said Gonzalez, the Texas Democrat who entered Congress the same year Kennedy became presi­dent. "For me to receive any recognition in his name is a greater honor than I could have ever dreamed." The president's children, John F. Kennedy Jr. and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, presented the silver lantern award, which honors people who have shown political courage. The annual ceremony was postponed from May 23 -the day former first lady Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis was buried. 
• Indiana Weather • Nath.mal Weather 
The Accu-WeatherCI!l forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 12 
Monday, Sept. 12 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day.
Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Ill. 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORI.fS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
,..,..........,_ 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction tights are reserved. 

• 
' ' ' ' ' 
AUanta  82  69  Houston  97  76  New York  72  59  
Anchorage  56  35  London  64  54  Philadelphia  76  57  
Chicago  84  58  Los Angeles  82  62  Phoenix  104  83  
Cleveland  72  53  Miami  89  n  Rome  84  61  
Denver  91  57  Minneapolis  74  50  St. Louis  80  60  
Honolulu  97  n  New Orteans  91  70  Washing1on, D.C. 80  61  


---~----------------··----­
Monday, September 12, 1994 
Man goes to trial for slaying of three peopl~ 
Associated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio 

A Cincinnati native is sched­uled to go to trial Monday in the deaths of a Willshire moth­er and her two teen-aged daughters who were found in Florida's Tampa Bay with cin­der blocks tied around their ankles. 
A four-week trial is expected for Oba Chandler, 47, in Clear­water, Fla. He faces three counts of first-degree murder in the deaths of Joan Rogers and her daughters, Michelle, 17, and Christie, 14. The family was from Van Wert County in northwest Ohio. 
Chandler has pleaded inno­cent. If convicted, he could be sentenced to death. 
Prosecutors believe Chandler lured the family onto his boat for sightseeing, then raped the girls, tied and gagged all three, weighted them with cinder blocks and threw them over­board. Their bodies were dis­covered three days later, on June 4, 1989. 
The defense plans to offer al­ternate theories about who killed the three. One possible defense witness says a relative arranged the slayings from his jail cell because Mrs. Rogers 
ATTENTION! 
OFF-CAMPUS GRADUATE & UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS 

University student rules and regulations are contained in du Lac: Student Life Policies and Procedures. 
Copies are available in the following locations: 
Student Government Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune Student Center & The Office of Resident Life, 315 Main Building 
Pick one up today! 

Office Cleaners Wanted: 
Full or part time, evening or day hours available. Experience helpful but not required. Hourly wage and benefits. Call Mary Ann at 289--0385. EOE M/F 
Weight Watchers At Work Program is coming to The University of Notre Dame! Enjoy all the convenience and benefits of the Weight Watchers 
program right on campus! 

Attend a FREE infonnation meeting to fmd out more: 
Tuesday, Sept. 13 12:00 -12:45 p.m. Foster Room !.aFortune 
Faculty, Staff & Students are invited to participate! 

Contact Michele Mannion at 631-5829 for details! 
®1994 Weight Watchers and The At Work Program are registered trademarks of Weight Watchers International, Inc. All righu reserml 
Wednesday, Sept. 14 11:00 -11:30 a.m. Training Room Support Services Bldg. 
~ 
Come ICC 
youraelf 
20 1bs. 
thinner 

I 
in the 
Magic 
Mirror! 
~ 

knew too much about a drug and pornography ring, the Dayton Daily News reported Sunday. 
The state will have to prove its case without the benefit of eyewitnesses. 
Instead, it plans to use evi­dence that includes a sample of Chandler's handwriting found at the family's motel, incrimi­nating statements he allegedly made to family members and cellmates, and records of mar­itime phone calls he made to his wife from his boat the night the women vanished, the news­paper said. 
Prosecutors won a victory last month when Circuit Judge Su­san F. Schaeffer ruled they could use evidence of an al­leged rape that occurred near Madeira Beach, Fla., two weeks before the slayings. 
The victim, a Canadian tourist, said Chandler lured her onto a blue boat with a white interior, where she was raped. He also threatened to gag her with duct tape, she said. 
Duct tape was used to gag the Rogers women, and Chandler owned a blue-and-white Bay­liner in 1989. 
Chandler was charged with rape, but the case has not come to trial. 
The Observer • NEWS page3 
The ObseiVer/ Cynthia Exconde 

Summer's last hurrah 

Saint Mary's junior. Daniella Peting paired up with sophomore Gretchen Moore for a c~noe race on Lake Marion last Friday. The races were a part of the Twilight Tailgate, sponsored by the Samt Mary's Student Activities Board. Lake Marion is on the Saint Mary's campus in front of the Haggar College Center. 



Crimea parliament dissolved 
By GENNADY POTAPENKO 
Associated Press 
SIMFEROPOL, Ukraine 
The president of the separatist Crimea peninsula dissolved parliament Sunday and im­posed emergency rule, describ­ing lawmakers as corrupt and "unworthy of the people." 
In a speech broadcast on re­gional television and radio, Yuri Meshkov said he was scheduling a referendum for April 9 to resolve the constitu­tional deadlock between parlia­ment and the president. He said he was assuming "full power" until then. 
Lawmakers, locked out of par­liament,-held an emergency session in the nearby general prosecutor's office. They de­nounced Meshkov's decree as unconstitutional and said they would keep working. 
Parliament had stripped Meshkov of many of his powers 




arrotTop 
~­
....
... 
as ~ ~ 
== ~ 
C» 
a:
.: Da
.. .... 
,... fD 
0 
n 
Cl 0
.... 
El
a 
,




0 -· 
u 0
...,

....C» .. 
as :r
:2 fD 
~ ~ 
Da 

.... ~ .. == 
-~ 

Monday, Septe...ber I99 I994 "'"ashington Hall s:oo p .... 
Student Tie•ets now availallle or at the LaFortune Bo• iee. 
on Wednesday in an ongoing dispute over which government branch has greater power. 
The specter of two rival bod­ies claiming ultimate authority renewed fears of the outbreak of violence in the volatile Black Sea province. It was unclear if Meshkov had sufficient support to enforce his decree. 
Ukraine President Leonid Kuchma refused to publicly take sides, urging both parties to find a "civilized solution." 
In May, Meshkov and the law­makers jointly took Crimea to the brink of civil war by adopt­ing a constitution that Ukrainian authorities viewed as tantamount to a declaration of independence. 
But the independence drive has been stymied by strong warnings of intervention by the Ukraine government, and feuds among political factions in Crimea have caused several political killings and the cur­rent constitutional crisis. 
"The president violated the republic's constitution," par­liament speaker Sergei Tsekov said in remarks reported by the ITAR-Tass news agency, after Meshkov sealed the main entrance to parliament. "We are now taking measures to do away with this error in a nor­mal way." 
Tsekov later went into a meet­ing with Meshkov. 
Lawmaker Leonid Grach, standing on the steps of par­liament, called Meshkov's ac­tion a "stupid move." As he spoke, elderly Meshkov sup­porters taunted him with chants of "criminal"-echoing Meshkov's charge that lawmak­ers are engaged in widespread corruption. 
"All this will do is weaken the already fragile political situa­tion in Crimea," Grach told The Associated Press. 
Meshkov, elected president 
----------~ 

page4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, September 12, 1994 
More questions raised Cloud hangs over anniversary 
about the S &L bailout 
By DAVE SKIDMORE Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Just as the savings and loan industry is enjoying its most robust health in years, its lob­byists have begun quietly cam­paigning for one more multibil­lion-dollar installment of tax­payer aid. 
The Resolution Trust Corp., the agency created in 1989 to clean up the nation's worst financial mess since the Depression, is scheduled to fm­ish its work by the end of next year. It will have spent $92 bil­lion. 
The good news, according to the congressional General Accounting Office, is that's $13 billion less than the $105 bil­lion it was given. Long-suffer­ing taxpayers ought to be breathing easier. 
But, according to Rep. Jim Leach, R-Iowa, the bad news is that S&Ls want a sizable por­tion the leftover money even though only one has failed so far this year and the industry has earned $2 billion in profits during the first half of 1994. 
After the RTC is history, a new Savings Association Insurance Fund, financed by S&L-paid premiums and man­aged by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., will be responsible for paying for fail­ures. 
At midyear, it had $1.7 bil­lion, but that's only about one­fifth of what it ought to have by law. 
Paul A. Schosberg, president of the Savings & Community Bankers of America, argues the industry cannot afford the high insurance premiums needed to bring the fund to full strength by 2004, especially since com­mercial banks soon will see a drastic cut in their insurance premiums. 
Both banks and S&Ls cur­rently pay about 24 cents for every $100 in deposits. 
The S&L fund is struggling largely because 11 cents of each 24 cents -$770 million a year -is being diverted from its premiums to retire 30-year government bonds sold to finance S&L cleanups in 1987 and 1988, before the RTC was created. 
In contrast, banks have near­ly finished recapitalizing the FDIC's Bank Insurance Fund. In the red only 2 1/2 years ago, it climbed to $17.5 billion by the end of June, or 92 percent of full strength. Bankers are looking forward to a reduction in their premiums, perhaps by mid-1995, to as little as 5 cents per $100 in deposits. 

When that happens, Schosberg warned, the now­stable S&L industry will start to deteriorate. It no longer will be able offer loans and deposit services on a competitive basis. 
As a cure, his trade group is recommending a merger of the bank and S&L funds but with enough taxpayer money from the RTC -$5 billion or $6 bil­lion -to offset most of the disadvantage to banks. It is in taxpayers' interest to make the contribution, Schosberg ar­gued. 
"Why in the world would you want to run the risk of creating a new wave of problem institu­tions, and why would you want to run the risk of having people lose confidence again in deposit insurance?" he asked. 
"It probably will be money well spent," agreed L. William Seidman, a former FDIC chair­man. "The government picking up the cost is the least-worst solution." 
But Leach, the senior GOP member of the House Banking Committee, and other lawmak­ers insist that taxpayers have done enough in restoring the S&L business to solvency and shouldn't be required to put it on an equal footing with banks. 
By PETERJ. SPIELMANN Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea North Korea observed in low­key fashion its first anniversary without "Great Leader" Kim II Sung today. Curiously absent was his son, the heir-apparent to power. 
Today was the third major oc­casion on which Kim Jong 11 shunned the public. 
Kim, known as "Dear Leader," failed to attend the two-month memorial services for his father on Thursday, at­tended by senior party and mil­itary officials. And he was a no­show at the one-month ob­servances. 
His absence and the fact that he has not officially assumed his father's titles as president and general-secretary of the ruling communist Korean Worker's Party have fueled rumors that he is seriously ill or engaged in a power struggle with the party or army leader­ship. 

The 46th anniversary of North Korea's founding was marked without mass celebra­tions or rallies in Pyongyang, according to North Korean media monitored in Seoul. Some banners and posters por­trayed the younger Kim. 
At a small gathering of party loyalists, Vice Premier Hong Song Nam tried to rally support 

Prelaw Society 
~Meeting 

7:00 p.nt. 


Septentber 12, 1994 121 Law School 
Open to All Students Considering Law 
for the absent Kim, the North's media reported. 
"The (North Korean) republic will continue to march in pros­perity if we have Dear Leader Kim Jong 11 at the forefront," Hong was quoted as saying. 
State-controlled media had repeatedly broadcast displays of wi1d, unrestrained public grief between Kim's death from a heart attack at age 82 on July 8 and his funeral July 20. 
Many North Koreans still visit the 100-foot polished bronze statue of the Great Leader on Mansu Hill in Pyongyang. Wreaths and bouquets are left at the site. 
Kim, his father's eldest son and designated successor, has not been seen in public since the funeral, when he looked ill, distracted, and seemed to have lost weight. 
Marxist-Leninist theory does not permit dynastic transfer of power in a communist state, and there is resentment in some circles in the North of the younger Kim's inheritance of power. 

"Obviously it is a very nar­rowly based family regime. There must be considerable dissatisfaction within North Ko­rea," said Charles Morrison, a North Korea watcher at the East-West Center in Honolulu. 
North Korean officials say Kim is awaiting the end of a 100-day mourning period, due to end Oct. 16. But total seclu­sion is not a traditional Korean mourning practice, leading to speculation that he is trying to consolidate his power. 
There does not seem to be any other candidate for leadership. The elder Kim publicly groomed his son to take over for more than 20 years. 
The personality cult around Kim II Sung has evolved into a virtual religion, and when he died, supernatural signs were reported, purporting to show that even the heavens and earth mourn the Great Leader's loss. 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 9:00AM OUTPOST SPORTS 
(3602 N. GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA, IN 259-1000 
;;JO vn ;;JO \U'II'-'l...lJUU'II\.:r \.IUJU.ll:.) 
ROSTERS OF NO MORE THAN 10 8 TEAM DOUBLE ELIMINATION TEAMS MUST REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS FIRST 8 TEAMS TO REGISTER WILL PLAY $10.00 ENTRY FEE $5.00 PER PERSON FOR INSURANCE TRANSPORTATION WILL NOT BE PROVIDED 
ALL EQUIPMENT WILL BE PROVIDED BY ROLLERBLADE 
~~ 631-6100 
13TH ANNUAL 




Welcome Students! 
Baptist Student Union 


JOIN US! 
Bible Study -Fellowship -Fun 
1•800•SUNCHASE 
NOBODY DOES SKI BREAKS BETTER! 
Monday, September 12, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Crime down in barricaded neighborhoods Japanese 
By JAMES HANNAH 
Associated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio 

To the casual observer, the Five Oaks neighborhood a cou­ple miles from downtown Dayton presents a typical Midwestern scene. Children skip down tree-lined sidewalks, past stately homes and mani­cured lawns. 
A closer look reveals steel gates held by brick posts block­ing traffic along streets and alleys throughout the area. 
Residents of Five Oaks have put themselves behind barri­cades to keep crime on the out­side looking in -and there is every indication it's working. 
Reeling from burglaries, drug dealing and prostitution, the neighborhood installed the gates in 1992 to discourage drive-through traffic as part of an anti-crime strategy. By the end of 1993, reported crimes had dropped 26 percent. 
"In a way, it's sad that it's come to this," said Ann Szabo, a neighborhood activist who pushed for the street barriers. 
Szabo, a mother of six who grew up in Five Oaks, said the problems began about 10 years 
I 

ago when residents became more transient. Traffic and burglaries increased, used con­doms littered alleys, prostitutes moved in and random gunshots were fired at an apartment. 
Enter Oscar Newman, an architect and urban planner who champions barricades to give neighborhoods "defensible space." Newman is director of the Institute for· Community Design Analysis of Great Neck, N.Y., a research organization for government agencies and housing authorities. 
Newman had erected barriers in neighborhoods in St. Louis, Miami and Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. Ten other neighborhoods in Baltimore; Boston; Chicago; Denver; Fort Worth, Texas; Gary, Ind.; Hartford, Conn.; Oakland, Calif.; Seattle; and Wilmington, Del. are thinking of following suit. 
Dealers "seek out com­munities that show evidence of decline. This is a very simple, inexpensive way of giving peo­ple control of areas around their environment," Newman said. 
His gates create cui-de-sacs and mini-neighborhoods. Residents know who strangers are, get to know each other and can better police their streets. 
Newman was invited to make his pitch to Dayton in 1991, and the city put up $693,000. 
By July 1992, more than 50 gates were erected, closing the streets and alleys to all but pedestrians. Only a few streets were left open to traffic. 
Police closed several drug houses, the city set up a fund to help residents spruce up their homes, and police assigned an officer to patrol Five Oaks. 
By the end of 1993, violent crime had been cut in half, according to a city study. Drive­through traffic plummeted by 67 percent. Home sales increased by 29 percent, and the average sale price jumped from $45,000 to $52,000. 
Despite the promising statis­tics, not everyone is happy. 
Jaqueline Teepen, who has lived in Five Oaks for three years, said the gates have closed more than the streets. 
"It puts black folks on one side of the fence and white folks on the other," said Teepen, who is black. "We used to see black folks. We don't see them now." 
Supporters of the barricades say Five Oaks and surrounding neighborhoods are racially diverse. Five Oaks once was 97 percent white, but the 1990 census showed its population of 4,931 was 43 percent black. 
Teepen also thinks the barri­ers are inconvenient. She said one neighbor must drive 14 blocks to move his car from the front of his house to his garage behind his house. Break-ins have continued and the gates delayed a fire truck so long last winter, she said, that a house burned to the ground. 
That story is denied by Ray Reynolds, the city urban devel­opment director, who could find no record of the fire. 
Newman acknowledged the gates are inconvenient but he believes benefits outweigh drawbacks. 
"The reality is we would never be able to do this if peo­ple weren't scared out of their minds," he said. 
Witold Rybczynski, professor of urbanism at the University of Pennsylvania, said the gates reflect a breakdown of civil society and the feeling by some people that their neighbor­hoods can no longer be open. 
elections draw near 
By PETER LANDERS 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 

Japan's ruling coalition failed a test of strength Sunday as an alliance of opposition parties triumphed over tl1e government candidate in a closely watched parliamentary election. 
The vote, in central Aichi pre­fecture, was considered a test case of the emerging political setup in Japan featuring two • large, competing blocs instead of several smaller parties. 
The result cast doubt on So­cialist Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama's ability to build a stable, long-term government. He came to power in June after forming an unusual alliance with the conservative Liberal Democrats, formerly archrivals. 
Officials said opposition candi­date Yuzuru Tsuzuki, a Labor Ministry section chief, had 931,936 votes, or 43 percent of 

the total, to 544,637, or 25 per­cent, for Jiro Mizuno for the upper house seat for Aichi, which includes the industrial center of Nagoya. 
Tsuzuki will succeed the 1992 winner, Shoji Shiroma, who was stripped of his seat after being found guilty of lying about his educational record in campaign literature. 
This was the first election since the Socialist-Liberal Democratic alliance forced a reformist coalition from power in June. The Liberal Demo­cratic Party ruled Japan from 1955 until last year, when voter anger about rampant corrup­tion brought down the gov­ernment. 
Reflecting the importance of the vote, each side sent its biggest names to campaign. Murayama stumped for the government's candidate and former Prime Ministers Tsu­tomu Hata and Toshiki Kaifu rallied for the opposition. 
The election came as Japan was moving from a multiparty system toward a competition between two large political groups -one centered around the Liberal Democrats and the other a union of self-pro­claimed reformers. Opposition parties said last week they plan to form one party. 
Commentators have predicted the shaky socialist-conservative alliance would not last long, but Murayama insists that he aims to solidify the coalition into a unified government. Observers said Sunday's election did not bode well for his ambitions. 
"This shows that the LPD­socialist coalition government has not gained the understand­ing of the people," said Minoru Morita, a political commenta­tor. "lnternationallly, it will be viewed that this is not a true long-term government." 
Though policy issues did not figure prominently in the cam­paign, the results did not sup­port Murayama's cautious ap­proach to economic reforms. The opposition is urging less protection for inefficient indus­tries and more attention to ur­ban consumers. 

''The Polarization of America -­Where Have the Good Jobs Gone?'' 
LARRY MISHEL 
Research Director, Economic Policy Institute 
Washington, DC 
17th Annual JOSEPH P. MOLONY Memorial Lecture 
University of Notre Dame Room 102-DeBartolo Hall September 12, 1994 8:00PM 
Co-Sponsored by the ' United Steelworkers of America 
and the Department of Economics~University of Notre Dame
•I 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~ 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, September 12, 1994 
SOPHOMORES!!!! 
• Design cool ads like this for $12/hr! Get Involved! 
Yeah, me too! Chances are, if you join SUB none of these things will ~ver happen -but they might, because we're the student organization that brings in the concerts 
Apply for the position of 
(Spin Doctors, Indigo Girls, Lenny Kravitz ...),AnTos tal, 
JPW Sophomore 
comedians, hypnotists, plays, speakers, Wmterfest, Sophomore Literary Festival, movies, Collegiate Jazz 
Committee Chairperson!! 
Festival ... just to name a few. So come on and join SUB, it's funner
Applications available than something that's pretty fun. 
at LaFortune information desk September 12-16. Application deadline September 16!!! 
Israel welcomes Assad speech as sign of peace 
By HFATHER SMITH 
Associated Press 
GAMIA, Golan Heights 
Israel on Sunday welcomed a conciliatory speech by Syria's president as a declaration of peace, the latest statement to suggest a possible break­through in talks over the Golan Heights. 

• 
President Hafez Assad, long Israel's bitterest foe, told his Parliament on Saturday that Syria understands peace re­quires certain commitments and that the country would 
meet them. 
"Despite the difficulties and the continuing state of no progress, there is some hope that peace would become a reality," Assad said. 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shi­mon Peres hailed Assad's speech as a "declaration of peace." He contrasted it with the rhetoric of war the· two countries have exchanged over the past 46 years. 
Assad's speech contains "more than hints, that he un-

Liberals and Separatists race 
By JEFFREY ULBRICH 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL 
Quebec's beleaguered Liberals, faced with poll predic­tions of their crushing defeat in Monday's provincial election, insist it's still a horserace with the separatists of the Parti Quebecois. 
Their logic? That old favorite -the undecided voter -will bail them out. 
"It is really illogical to vote for separatists if you don't want Quebec to separate from Canada," Premier Daniel Johnson, the Liberal standard­bearer, said Sunday. 
He warned that a Parti Quebecois victory would mean "upheaval." 
"That's the choice tomorrow: realism, and Quebec as a senior member in the community of Canada, or radicalism," Johnson said, adding that Parti Quebecois leader Jacques Parizeau "incarnates total 


derstands that peace is really peace," Peres said. "If the so­lution is not yet clear, the air is becoming clearer and I wel­come it in a very serious tone." 
Peres also confirmed that the United States was trying to arrange a meeting between himself and Syria's Foreign Minister Farouk Sharaa. 
The comments by Assad and Peres were the latest of a series of conciliatory exchanges in the past week, indicating move­ment in U.S.-brokered talks which had been stalemated over the Golan Heights for months. 
Israel seized the plateau in the 1967 Middle East war and later annexed it. Syria has de­manded that Israel withdraw from all of Golan in return for peace. 
Talk of a breakthrough intensified last week when Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said Israel has offered a mar­ginal withdrawal be followed by a three-year test period, after which a significant pull­back was possible. 
radicalism." 
Parizeau, 64, wrapped his 50­day campaign on Sunday press­ing the flesh in his home dis­trict of Assomption, north of Montreal. 
Parizeau is the champion of those who feel that Francophones, who comprise about 85 percent of the province's 7 million people, are treated like second-class citi­
zens in largely AnglophoneCanada. Many fear their Ian­guage and culture eventually 
will be absorbed by the English 
sea. 
He has promised that ifhis~llllillilllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil party wins a majority of the 
l ATOUld YOU like tO 
125 seats in the Quebec legisla-V V1 • • • ture and forms the next govern­
ment, it will hold a referendum 
Edd1.e ' Ted d r' 
on independence within a year. • Party with V I 
e • 

Polls consistently have shown the PQ should win, by margins ranging from 3 percent to 10 
St h K • f 
percent. The same polls. how-•Tell ghost stories with ep en Ing.
ever, show Quebecois are not nearly so keen on indepen­
dence and would vote down the • Joke around with Jim Carrey! 
U.S. urged to freeze assets 
By GENE KRAMER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The United States should impose tougher sanctions against Nigeria's military junta or civil war could erupt in Africa's most populous country, Nigerian community leaders say. 
"When it explodes, the Nigerian conflict will be of such magnitude that the world will permanently be numbed," said Chief Ralph Obioha, a founder of his country's National Democratic Coalition. "It is incumbent on the Western World to call the junta to their senses." 
Turmoil in Nigeria, a country of 90 million, will make the Rwanda situation seem like child's play, others said. They addressed a forum Saturday sponsored by the Nigerian Democratic Awareness Committee. 
The dissident group supports the claim to Nigeria's presiden­cy of Moshood K.O. Abiola, apparent winner of the June 1993 election, before the previ­ous military regime nullified the results. 

referendum if it were held now. 
The undecided vote is often not reported, although it has ranged as high as 15 percent. However, because of population distribution, the Liberals would have to take many French-speaking districts to win the election. 
That is unlikely, as political support tends to follow Unguis­tic lines. The PQ has very 
strong support amongFrancophones. Anglophones and those whose first language 
is neither French nor English
massively favor the Liberals. 
Arrested after proclaiming himself president on the elec­tion's first anniversary, Abiola, a' billionaire businessman and publisher, is awaiting trial on treason charges. 
Randall Echols, Abiola's U.S. representative, said the United States should unilaterally impound Nigerian assets to conserve them for a future democratic government and as collateral for U.S. aid costs in event of a Rwanda-style refugee exodus. 
"This is the particular sanc­tion we think the U.S. govern­ment is going to implement, but how soon we don't know," Echols told the forum. 
Nigerian-and other African­Americans should press hard for action, he added, asking, "Do Nigerian bodies have to be floating down the River Niger in order to draw a firm response?" 
A State Department official said Nigerian military ruler Sani Abacha's decrees last week restricting civil liberties and the courts "certainly run counter to everything the U.S. stands for" but had no informa­tion about adding more sane-
Will U looking this tonitet 
H p p 2 I t S
a y $ , a r y L0 ve-8 aIIs 0 f st e e I 
tions to current U.S. entry restrictions against Nigerians. 
The United States stands for democratization without favor­ing any specific person, and the situation is under constant review, added the official, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
"If we want to talk about pri­orities and national interests, Nigeria is by far more impor­tant to this country and its economy than Haiti, with all respect for Haiti," Echols said. 
An estimated $6 billion, most­ly payments for Nigerian oil, lie in U.S. banks, he said, and freezing them is justified as col­lateral against "the impending cost of refugee services. Should Nigeria go into civil war, the aid costs will quadruple the $200 million that U.S. taxpay­ers are paying for the Rwanda refugee effort." 
Obioha described Nigerian foreign assets as private "stolen wealth" siphoned from oil revenues by corrupt military and civilian officials that should be used to pay the country's foreign debt or eventually returned to the treasury. 

CAMPUSES 
Monday, September 12, 1994 Page? 
Brown faces discrimination 
Students accuse Office of Financial Aid and Athletic Department of minority and gender bias 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
News Writer 
Three officers of the Office of Financial Aid at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island have been accused of discrimination against minority students. 
Nine undergraduate students at Brown have requested an outside investigation of the situ­ation by the United States Department of Education Office of Civil Rights. 
The students allege that the Office of Financial aid has not treated minority students equally in the distribution of money and in their behavior towards the students and their individual needs. 
The department of University Relations responded to the accusations in a statement that acknowledges problems in the financial aid office, yet it denies that "these problems are racial or ethnic in nature." 
In further response to the stu­dent accusations, the Vice President for Administration has established a Task Force on Financial Aid to evaluate how services are administrated to students. 
Additionally, Director of Financial Aid Fernando de Necochea was removed from his post and replaced by Anthony Canchola-Flores, Senior Associate Director of Admission. 
Students have suggested that the administration consult a specialist in race relations to investigate the problem and that students should be protect­ed from any reprisal for coming forth to tell of any discrimina­tion that they have encoun­tered. 
Also, students have specified that they have not asked for the removal of anyone from the financial aid department, only that they are reprimanded for misbehavior and that students are treated fairly in the future. 
Also with regard to gender bias, a class-action sex discrimination suit brought against Brown will formally be tried next week in federal dis­trict court. 
The case was filed in April of 1991 when Brown made signif­icant cuts in its sports program by reclassifying four varsity teams, two women and two male, as club sports. By doing so, the sports would not be eli­gible for university funding. 
Amy Cohen, a member of the women's gymnastics team, challenged the cuts as a viola­tion of Title IX of the 1972 Federal Education Amendment _. by filing the class action suit. 
The suit claims that the ulti­mate result of the cuts would be an athletic department of approximately 65 percent male varsity athletes, and that such disproportionality is discrim­inatory under Title IX. 
The other female varsity team to be reclassified, women's vol­leyball, also joined the suit. 
Prior to the case going to trial, an federal court injuction was issued against Brown pro­hibiting the administration from making the cuts in the women's varsity sports teams until a judgment or settlement had been reached. 
The reclassification of men's varsity golf and water polo, however, were approved by the court and effected by the uni­versity last year. 
Carjacking surprises U. of Miami 
By MARCY DINIUS 
Campuses Editor 
With the recent carjacking of a University of Miami student in a Holiday Inn parking lot near campus, the increasing problem of crime involving the university and its students has become a significant issue on the Coral Gables campus. 
Favzi Hamadah was ap­proached by five men with a shotgun as he was looking in the trunk of his rental car, forced to the ground, and robbed of his possessions and the car. 
Police followed the carjackers in what was nearly a half-hour chase, resulting in the appre­hension of the car's driver and the return of Hamadah's stolen belongings. 
A conflict ensued between the police and the victim, who was accused of being uncooperative because he was Saudi Arabian by the police. 
Yet Hamadah, who is a 

MIAMI 
Kuwaiti citizen, responded that he cooperated with authorities and that the problem instead lies with a government that does not regulate the use and ownership of guns more strict­ly. 
What is unusual about the carjacking is that it occurred in an upscale neighborhood where such crimes are usually not encountered. 
Some students expressed sur­prise at the commission of such a crime in the Coral Gables area. Yet others related their continued confidence in the safety of the campus and the adjacent area. 
According to police at the Coral Gables Police Depart­ment, 98 percent of all crimi­nals that commit crimes in the area come from outside Coral Gables. In addition, nearly 100 cars are stolen every day from the Dale county area. 
Human rights data bank established 
Yale, U. of Cincinnati cooperate to create bibliography 
By MARCY DINIUS 
Campuses Editor 
With the recent death of Yale law librarian Diana Vincent-Davis who spear­headed the project to allow stu­dents and academicians access to human rights documents that would otherwise be ob­scure, librarians and scholars at Yale and the University of Cincinnati have continued Vincent-Daviss' work by scan­ning the documents on to a data bank on the Internet com­puter network. 
The project, named "Diana" in honor of its initial supporter, has the goal of gathering dif­ferent types of material per­taining to human rights in an effort to establish the first com­prehensive bibliography for such information. 
In the past, anyone wishing to research specific areas of the human rights issue have had to receive materials through inter­library loan or by actually trav­elling to a site at which such materials are kept. 
In addition to improving the ease of access, the effort has also been helpful in the preservation of printed human rights documents whose condi­tions in many cases has begun to deteriorate. 
In April, the University of Cincinnati began feeding doc­uments on to the lntenet. Yet with no funding at either Cincinnati or Yale specifically allocated to the project, its par­ticipants are limited to comput­erizing the documents only' when money becomes avail­able. 
Thus far, the project has only received a $30,000 grant from the United States Institute of Peace and a $15,000 grant from the National Center for Automated Information Re­search. 
In approximately one year, librarians plan to have a signifi­cant number of documents available for on-line access. 
The program is advised by a board of 12 scholars and librar­ians specializing in human rights-related work. Other schools, libraries, and human­rights groups are also being asked to contribute to the ef­fort.Ultimately, the participants in the program hope to trans­late the documents into other languages and allow access with the use of a few key words for a greater ease in use of the information. 
Currently, "Diana" is avail­able through Mosaic or any World-Wide Web program un­der the Universal Resource Lo­cator, http://www.law. uc.edu/ Diana. 
• CJUV!PUS BRiEFS 
18 ROTC units to close next year 
The Reserve Officers Training Corps at 18 colleges and univeristies across the country will be closed by the 
U.S. Army at the end of the 1994-95 academic year. 
The 18 units were fore­warned about the possibility of closing due to budget cuts and lack of need for new officers. Decisions about which units were to close were decided by dwindling enrollment num­bers. 
One particular unit located at Washinton University was closed for failure to abide by ROTC guidelines and regula­tions. 
The Army stated that the university failed to provide spaces for facilities, credit stu­dents academically for ROTC, and for ignoring the Defense Department's policy of exclud­ing gay people from the armed forces. 
This is the largest reduction of units since 1990 when the 
U.S. Army closed 50 units. 
Professor accused of lab misconduct 
Oakland University has re­cently accused and suspended a science professor for re­search miscondut. 
According to colleagues of the professor, G. Rasul Chaudhry, his research with the HIV virus created a haz­ardous work environment in the lab which they all shared. 
Chaudhry's colleagues re­ported that they were not in­formed about the research be­ing conducted and were there­fore unable to take necessary precautions to protect them­selves from possible infection. 
"There never was any explanation of the kind of work going on there," said associate professor of bilogical sciences, Fay Hansen_Smith. "By not knowing what was going on, I was deprived of the opporunity to make a choice about whether my work was so important that my students should be at risk." 
Chaudhry defends that no guidelines of safety were vio­lated in his research. 
Klein challenges Calvin College 
In the process of obtaining a trademark for their new logo, Calvin College located in Grand Rapids, Michigan, found opposition from the Calvin Klein Inc. clothing com­pany. 
Initially, the college didn't expect any problems and were shocked when the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in­formed them of the conflict. 
"Apparently it raised a red flag with them," said Phil DeHaan, the college's spokesperson. 
Klein has since dropped the issue and is allowing the col­lege to use the original logo design. 

Documents found at Saint Johns U. 
Professor George Greenia had the shock of his life when he discovered a 14th-century Spanish legal document hid­den in a vault at Saint John's University. 
The sheepskin scroll, along with 40 others documents, are believed to have been brought to the university by a monk who placed them in the unknown vault without telling anyone about their existence. 
The first document that Greenia discovered ended up to be one the most important manuscripts that have turned up in an American library for decades. 
"My first reaction was de­light, followed by a sense of certainty that it must have been researched and cata­logued," said Greenia. 
However, librarians Maureen and Paul Watry said they had no idea that the doc­uments even existed. 
Freshmen aided with transition 
In an effort to help freshmen become better adjusted to col­lege life, several schools have introduced unique freshman orientation programs to aid in the transition. 
To promote community in­volvement in addition to aca­demics, students· at Illinois College worked in local parks planting trees and painting fences. 
At the University of Puget Sound in Tacoma, Wshington, students partake in a three­day camping trip that includes hiking, mountain biking, and canoeing. -Information from the Chronicle ofHigher Education 
VIEWPOINT 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

New> Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspapet published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­
.. rion ofeicher institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and m all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927• Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.!@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu. 
• LtrrER TO THE Eomm· • THE WmnR oF Mv DiscoNTENT 
Pro-active measures: 
Why the buck should stop here 
Earlier counseling 
This past summer lost amidst the qualify as one of the greatest wastes government has managed to raise highly partisan congressional wran­of time in human history every year, taxes to their current levels without gling over such issues as health care there are over 5.4 billion manhours provoking substantial popular dissent. 
andsupporlneeded 
reform and the Federal crime pack­spent by Americans simply trying to If citizens paid their taxes directly Dear Editor: age was the introduction of one of the figure out their taxes (imagine both from their own pockets in the same 
The recent tragic death of graduate student most potentially revolutionary pieces the productivity and leisure time lost manner in which they make house or Alexandru Bumbacea shares some remarkable of legislation put forward in over a in this effort). Further, the current car payments the egregious rate of similarities to the suicide of another student two decade. The Freedom and Fairness Gode commits the economic atrocity taxation we are now burdened with years ago. Both were graduate students in Restoration Act (HR 6 introduced of taxing income once when it is would never have been reached; the Mathematics. Both were foreign nationals from June 16) seeks to rectify the central earned and taxed again when it pro­political reality of the situation would Eastern Europe. I point out what is similar malady plaguing our government duces income as savings. This double not permit it. By ending the deceptive between the two cases not to assign blame of to today; the fact that it is too big, too taxation of savings imposes an·· and obfuscating system of withhold­find a common cause, but instead to· try to intrusive and that it both overtaxes immense and unnecessary burden on ing tax a powerful check can be break an all-too-familiar pattern. and overspends. 
our economy. placed on the innate tax-and-spend 
The University, especially through the offices In stark contrast to the well docu­ways of Washington. of the Counseling Center and Campus Ministry, mented absurdities and inconsisten­Of course there will be all the pre­has been exceptionally supportive when stu­cies inherent in our current system dictable objections to the Freedom dents die They provide a much needed service Chris stands the simplicity and efficiency of and Fairness Restoration Act originat­through difficult times for individuals, residence the proposed flat tax. In essence the ing from all of the predictable places. halls and departments that are struck with the plan would work as follows: all per­The establishmentarians in tragedy of student suicide. I leaned all this first sonal income would be taxed once at Washington will deride the flat tax
Kratovil

hand two years ago. the constant rate of 1 7 percent. The proposal as "unfair" because they 
Two years ago I was concerned that the only possible break would be a $5300 fear it as a threat to their spend­University was taking too much of a reactionary per child deduction (roughly twice the happy ways. Leftist ideologues will attitude towards the problem of campus suicide A few quick facts make this asser­current level) and a personal decry the loss of the "progressive" and not enough of a precautionary one. Two tion transparently obvious. The allowance of $13,100 for an individ­income tax, ignoring the fact that this years ago as I went from University office to American public sector is now larger ual, $17,200 for a single head of a plan would take millions of poor and University office, I pledged the full support of than the entire economy of any other household and $26,000 for a married working poor off the tax rolls via its the Graduate Student Union to any department, nation in the world, excluding only couple. In terms of business and cor­generous personal allowances and office or group that was willing to fight against Japan. The average family currently porate taxes the same principle would doubled deductible for children. Some this problem. No one had any ideas. I think we pays more in taxes than it does on the be extended as profits (the difference will express legitimate concern about have waited two years too long to start looking the combined necessities of food, between revenue and expenses, is the loss of such loopholes as the home for them. clothing and shelter. The number of positive) would be taxed at this 17 mortgage deduction, but the vastly 
Do I have an answer to this problem? No. I government employees outnumbers percent rate. increased capitol available due to the suspect that the answer may be something of a total employment in the manufactur­The proposed 17 percent flat rate is elimination of the double tax on sav­holistic approach combining the existing ing sector. And perhaps most telling. low enough to guarantee most ings will offset this. avenues of support with a stronger base of sup­nearly 40 percent of the nation's total Americans a substantial tax cut and The underlying appeal of filing out port for students, especially those far away income is now spent but by politicians yet according to the numbers offered one's entire tax return on a form the from home. We should be aware of the incredi­and bureaucrats at various levels of by Congressman Dick Armey, the size of a post card is undeniable. ble pressures put on the members of our Notre government. author of HR 6, provides sufficient There is also something fundamental­Dame family. The Freedom and Fairness revenue to meet scaled back federal ly fair about treating every one in the 
Any such program shouldn't be limited to any Restoration Act seeks to address this needs. Additionally, it is reasonable to same way rather than letting self­one branch of the University. A broad-based crisis through several deep but basic assume· that the imposition of a flat serving politicians decide which support mechanism should be able to address reforms. The first of these proposals tax could initiate a period of substan­groups should surrender what portion 
the pressures felt by students, faculty and staff is the scrapping of the entire current tial economic expansion due to the of their earnings to Washington. alike, to address the pressures felt by students, federal tax code in favor of a simple total elimination of such growth­Replacing the tax bureaucracy and its faculty and staff alike, whether they live on­flat tax system. Our current system is, shackling measures as the estate tax accompanying parasites with a sim­
campus or off, be undergraduates or graduates, as anyone who has ever filled out and the capital-gains tax. ple, efficient and fair flat tax system Catholics or non-Catholics. It is my sincere their own tax return knows, is fatally Another key tax reform is the elimi­would constitute a major victory in hope that it will not take another student sui­flawed; rates are high, loopholes still nation of that most insidious of gov­the battle to retake control of our gov­cide to bring such a program into existence. abound and those not in a position to ernment revenue devices; income tax ernment. 
MIKE KELLY hire an expensive CPA or tax attorney withholding. By taking people's Kratovil is a sophomore government GSU President 1992-93 are unfairly burdened. In what must money before they ever see it, the major. 
• DOONESBIJRY 


THE3R&~OJI<J<l3NTL-Y 
ABOUT IZ MIUION CHII.llR&N 
tiTHeR. UNIN'3UR&JJ 0!< UNpt;f<­
IN~UREI?. "KilJ!3 FIR'37;"fUN{}E;[) 
8Y ~IN 7.4Xl3, atVWP!<OVIIJI3. 
RJUCOVERAG& fOR.AU.KI!J5/ 
~~~/ 
THI~ HONORS 7Hf:. 
5PIRITOFUNIV£R­
5AU7Y, ~IR.. 1Tr3 !00"/.0r~ING! 
B&SIW3, 8093, 175 
WRY S&UAet&i 
I 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
(i()OCJ
MOKNJ~~il 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY ''you can't always get what 
you want But if you try sometimes You might just find You get what you need." 
-Mick Jagger and Keith Richards 
BUMBLING 
BECTON 
• Lee Becton (left) fumbled twice in Saturday's game, the first coming after 233 
consecutive carries without a turnover. 
-page 3 


Hail to the kicker 
Hamilton :S heroic 
field goal erases 
Irish comeback 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sporrs Editor 
"You can do it" 
Those were the words Mike Gillette whis­pered into the ear of Remy Hamilton minutes before he nailed a 42-yard field goal, moments before he stabbed the hearts of Notre Dame fans, and precious seconds before Michigan killed an Irish comeback with a 26-24 win at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Gillette knew what it meant to have that chance. The game on the line, all eyes on him, and all thoughts on his ability to kick a ball between two posts. 
It was 1988 when Gillette lined up for his moment. Notre Dame was ahead 19-17 and at the beginning of a national championship season. 
But he missed. 
So on this day a former Wolverine wanted to give hope to a friend he just met. Notre Dame called timeout, Gillette spoke those words, and Hamilton listened. And he did 
what Gillette has done in his dreams for fi~----·-·---­years. ~ 
"He was probably one of the greatest kick­ers to come through here," Hamilton said about Gillette. "But I had never met him until 
see IRISH I page 2 


• JOCK STRIP 
Exchange error haunts Zataveski 
M
ark Zataveski stared at his feet and cursed his hands. 
In more than two weeks as Notre Dame's starting center, he and quarterback Ron Powlus 
____::!
L__:.__._L_ 

had not botched a single
exchange. Associate Sports Editor
Not in practice. Not against Northwestern. Not in the first 57 minutes of Saturday's 
game against Michigan. 
But in the 58th minute, on the second play of a potential game-winning drive, Powlus rose from his crouch under center without the ball. 
Michigan recovered deep in its own ter­ritory, just 34 yards from putting the game out of reach. 
"It was the first (failed exchange) we've had since I moved to center," Zataveski said. "What a time to have it." 
Neither Powlus nor Zataveski knew how it happened, but both knew how it hurt. 
see KELLY I page 3 

The Observer/Jake Peters The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Derrick Mayes' twisting catch (top) gave Notre Dame it's short-lived lead until Michigan quarterback Todd Collins (left) directed a drive that resulted in Remy Hamilton's game-winning field goal (right, middlle) and Amani Toomer's celebration (right, bottom). 

\ 
\ 
' 

'\~-­
-

Monday, September 12, 1994 
The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA page 2 
Jeremy's stellar performance all for Nau-ght 
Inspired defensive effort wasted as Irish lose late lead 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
It should have been Jeremy Nau's defining game. 
In just the third start of his career, the senior outside linebacker ignited the Notre Dame defense with eight tackles. including a quarterback sack that forced a fumble. 
And his animated celebrations breathed life into a gasping unit. 
"I try to play with emotion. That's just my personality. I do the same thing in practice," Nau said. "Maybe I got a little 

Irish 
continued from page 1 
~---.;;,;to;.;:d:..:ay before the game. He just C'liffie_ ~P to me and said something like 'Just go out there and have a good day. Good Luck.'" It was perfect luck. It will be "The Kick" just as there is "The Catch" for Wolverine fans, a reference to Desmond Howard's grab in 1991 that propelled Michigan to a win. Hamilton will be the hero for at least three years. College football fans will have to wait that long for the series to resume. "The Kick" wasted a per­fect touchdown by Notre Dame's Derrick Mayes with :52 seconds left. The junior wide receiver made a acro­batic catch on a Ron Powlus pass from seven yards out. It looked like the game winner. "I thought we it won. I was sure we had it won," said Mayes, who had 107 yards receiving. "But it was just like Boston College." It was exactly like Boston College. In the Irish's final home game last year Notre Dame roared back in the final quarter. went ahead on a touchdown pass, and then lost 41-39 as David Gordon kicked a 41-yard field goal as time expired. He was an obscure player with ques­tionable ability. He was Hamilton. "He (Hamilton) couldn't hit an extra point or a field goal last spring and to go from where he was hitting them like he was today, it's all to 
carried away today, but so what?" 
He carried a defense that allowed only 116 rushing yards, despite a 1 00-yard performance from Tim Biakabutuka. 
"Jeremy Nau played inspired football," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. 
It should have been his defining game. 
Instead, it was just a loss, as bitter as any other in his career. 
The fact that he played probably his best college game didn't matter much to him. 
And it will be but a footnote in the record of a typically tantalizing Notre Dame-Michigan matchup. 
Nau's heroics will be lost in the remi­niscence of fumbles and field goals. 
''I'm not going to sit here and talk about my personal accolades," he said. "I feel terrible about what happened." 
He did his part to make sure that what happened-a 26-24 loss to Michigan­didn't happen. 
Roaming around backfield, he hunted Wolverines and hit hard when he found his prey. And celebrated hard, dancing and kicking his legs to rouse his team­mates. 
But because emotion plays such a big part in how he plays, the extremes are pretty extreme. 
And Saturday's game had its share of ups and downs, most notably Notre Dame's rapid rise and fall in the final minute. 
"I had my head in my hands and almost cried when we kicked the extra point (to take the lead in the final minute)," Nau said, though his tears flowed for the wrong reason a few moments later. "Right now, I just feel like crap." 
He had reason to feel that way. At the pep rally the night before the game, Nau spoke to the crowd and said if Notre Dame lost to Michigan "our season 

Those words had a painful ring late "I thought I did a decent job," he said. Saturday afternoon. "It's nice, but personal accolades don't With plenty of personal reasons to feel mean squat." 
his credit," Michigan assis­tant Mike DeBord said. 
The game-winner was Hamilton's fourth field goal of the day, and a chance he wasn't likely to get with Michigan starting its final drive at its own 17 -yard line. But Michigan quarterback Todd Collins scrambled for 15 yards, and then split Notre Dame's defense for a 26 yard gain with a pass to tight end Jay Reimersma. 
After hitting Seth Smith for nine yards to the Notre Dame 33 yard line, Collins made a game-saving play. With Irish linebacker Bert Berry draped over him, he spun away and flipped a pass to Smith who got nine more yards and, more importantly, out of bounds, stopping the clock at :07. 
It was a drive eerily similar to the one Glenn Foley directed in the Boston College upset. He, like Collins was as much a hero as the men who kicked the field goals. 
And with heros come goats. For Notre Dame it was Lee Becton. The senior tail­back did not fumble once in 1993 and had gone 223 car­ries without losing the ball, dating back to Michigan State in 1992. But twice Becton put the ball on the stadium grass, two of three fumbles on the day for the Irish. All three turnovers re­sulted in field goals by Hamilton. 
"It was a great comeback by Notre Dame followed by a great comeback by Michigan," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "There were a lot of big plays by both teams. 
It's disappointing like the Boston College game." 
Notre Dame had its chance early in the second half when Marc Edwards' eight yard touchdown run broke a 10­10 tie. Michigan defensive back Tyrone Noble could be given as much credit for the score. With Notre Dame fac­ing third and 16 Noble was flagged for pass interference, giving the Irish first-and-ten from the Michigan 12. 
But Michigan responded with a three-yard strike from Collins to Reimersma. The drive was highlighted by running back Tim Biakabutuka, who finished the day with 100-yards on 25 carries. His 20 yard catch put the ball at the Notre Dame seven-yard line. 
Hamilton hit a pair of field goals in the fourth before his game winner. Becton's sec­ond fumble set up the first kick and a botched snap between Powlus and center Mark Zataveski set the stage for the second. 
Notre Dame's final scoring drive looked to be enough, and although lacking in rele­vance at the end, was near perfect. Michael Miller returned a kickoff 55 yards to the Michigan 36. Powlus hit Mayes for 17 yards. A pass interference call on Deon Johnson put the ball at the two and after an illegal shift penalty Powlus hit Mayes in the back of the end­zone. 
But it ended up meaning nothing as Gillette spoke and hoped and Hamilton listened. 
"This loss hurts," Holtz said. "And it will hurt for a long time." 
• GRADED POSI'fl!lN ANALYSlS 
QuARTERBACKS-8 Not as stellar as the opener but led the comeback when needed. Missed a few checks but dodged pressure well. 
RUNNING BACKS-C­A senior captain has two fumbles. Outrushed Michigan but had few big plays as the Irish offense was forced to go to the air. 
RECEIVERs-A Derrick Mayes, Derrick Mayes, Derrick Mayes -Throw it anywhere in the stadium and he'll catch it. 
OFFENSIVE LINE-C-Center Mark Zataveski said it best, "We have a long way to go." Powlus was hurried and the running game sputtered. A key fumble in the fourth quarter was due to a bad exchange. 
DEFENSIVE LINE-A-They needed to be tougher to stop Michigan's running attack and did just that. They put pressure on Todd Collins and came up big twice in the fourth quarter holding Michigan to field goals, 
LINEBACKERS-A Justin Goheen had a sack and played inspired. Jeremy Nau had the game of his life. Bert Berry almost made the sack of the century for the Irish. The run defense was excellent and the group was an emo­tional spark on the field. 
SECONDARY-C+ When they needed to come up big they didn't. Final drive pass to tight end Jay Riemersma was a big blunder that may have been the play of the game. If it wasn't for corner Bobby Taylor this group would be seeing its counselor to discuss major tutoring. 
SPECIAL TEAMS-8­Michael Miller's late return doesn't overshadow a poor day for the coverage and return teams. In all but the final drive, Michigan was looking at great field position after a kickoff. Stefan Schroffner was solid kicking and Brian Ford excelled despite poor snaps. 
CoACHING-8 It's hard to question the man, but maybe you do in this case. Late timeout was called because Irish had 12 men on the field. If that's not the case, the play clock expires and Michigan is looking at a far­ther field goal shot. 
GAME G.P.A.-2.89 Notre Dame put itself in position to win but the let it slip away,. Michigan deserves a lot of credit but that's two home games 1n a row the Irish couldn't hold the lead in the final minute. 
-GEORGE DOHRMANN 


page 3 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Monday, September 5, 1994 

Becton bobbles the ball like never before 
His two fumbles stall Irish offense 
ByRIAN AKEY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame upperclassmen can remember the way Lee Becton used to carry the football. 
But that doesn't necessarily mean they can recall the on-field reushing perfor­mances that made Becton a pre-season Heisman contender his senior year. 
Rather, they may remember seeing him cutting through South Quad, or ducking through a hole to get to the soda machine during heavy lunch hour traffic at the dining hall., because one of Becton's old trademarks was that he carried the ball with him around cam­pus, an effort to help make the ball feel like a part of his body. 
But in Saturday'.£ \oss to Michigan, Bectotl's 7 6-yard rushing effort raised few eyebrows. Instead, it was Becton's two fumbles which turned heads, caus­ing more commotion than if he had dropped his tray in the dining hall. 
Because everyone watching the game knew that the outcome would depend on which team made fewer mistakes. Because early in the game Becton seemed to be rallying from a disappoint­ing 16-yard performance against Northwestern. 
Because Becton doesn't fumble. 
The only previous fumble in Becton's career at Notre Dame came against Texas A & M in the 1993 Cotton Bowl, 233 carries before he dropped his first against Michigan. 
The earth made more rotations between Becton's first and second ca­reer fumbles than the minute hand on a wristwatch did between his second and third. 
And even Becton cannot explain why. 
"I wasn't holding the ball any differ­ently," he said. "I don't know what hap­pened." 
But even Becton's fumbles were no more than exclamation marks on an overall Irish rushing effort which could not meet the standards set in season's past. 
The woes that th·..: Irish rushing game would suffer wer.e perhaps foreshad­owed in Notre Darne's first touchdown drive late in the (+pening quarter. 
A 33-yard gain on a Mayes reception gave the Irisltt-a first-and-goal at the Michigan 1-: _rd line. Michigan held the lin<> ..,....tnst rushes by Powlus twice and
r 

Marc Edwards once before Powlus con­nected with Becton in the end zone on a finesse pass. 
Although Notre Dame having to resort to a Powlus pass for the score may be more indicative of problems with the maturing offensive line, it also il­lustrates the increasing reliance the Irish have on big-play offense. 
While past Notre Dame teams under Holtz have made a habit of grinding out five-and six-yard gains, the Irish fre­quently had to settle for short yardage gains against Michigan, requiring longer third-and fourth-down conversions­and more passing attempts. 
While this style may be more exciting for Irish fans, it lacks the consistency Holtz may ci'ave. 
And for Becton, his reputation as a consistent rusher will not be affected by 

Lee Becton (4) had trouble handling the ball Saturday, but thanks to the Michigan defense, he had no trouble hitting the turf. 
his performance on Saturday. "I was not gun when I went back out after the fumbles," said Becton. 
And so Becton will continue to carry the ball the same way he always has-at least on the field. 


• STATISTICS 
Kelly

SCORE BY QUARTERS 100 TO, Hayes 1·17, Davis 7-9, Foster 1-3, Michigan 7 3 10 6 26 Collins 6-(minus 13). 
continued from page 1
Notre Dame 10 0 7 7 24 PASSING-Notre Dame: Powlus 15-27-D-187 Attendance: 59,075 2TD. Michigan: Collins 21-29-0-224 TO. 
Zataveski ripped the helmet off his head
RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Mayes 7-106 TO, TEAM STATS UM NO Miller 3·24, Zellars 2-31, Stafford 2-25, Becton on the sidelines, spewing expletives at him­First Downs 20 24 1·1 TO. Michigan: Toomer 5-72, Riemersma 
self. 

Rushes-Yards 40-116 44-165 5-68 TO, Foster 3-14, Biakabutuka 2·23,
TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 
Teammates tried to soothe him. Irish
Passing Yards 224 187 Hayes 2-20, Smith 2·18, Davis 2-9. 
coach Lou Holtz also had a few reassuring
Comp-Att-lnt 21-29-0 15-27-0 TACKLES-Notre Dame: Magee 9, Nau 8 (2
1. Florida (27) 2-0-0 1492 2 
Return Yards 127 151 sacks), Goheen 8 (1 sack), Wynn 7, Gibson 6 
words. 

Punts-Avg 6-35.1 5-39.8 (1 fumble rec.), Taylor 5 (1 kick block), Saddler
2. Nebraska (22) 2-0-0 1483 1 
But Zataveski shouldered the burden alone 
Fumbles-Lost 2-1 3-3 5, Grasmanis 5, Hamilton 4, Sample 4, 
for failing to execute football's most basic
Penalties-Yards 6-62 6-46 Wooden 3, Davis 3, Cobbins 2, Ceniga 2,
3. Florida St. (5) 2-0-0 1384 4 
fundamental.

Possession Time 29:45 30:15 Mclaughlin 2, Moore 2. Michigan: Morrison 9 
(1 fumble rec.), Irons 8, Winters 6, Pryce 5 (2 
"It has to be there all the time," he said.
4. Michigan (2) 2-0-0 1370 6 
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS sacks, 1 fumble rec.), Law 5, Zenkewicz 5, 
"If it's not there, it has to be my fault."
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Becton 13-76, Johnson 5, Waldroup 4, Thompson 3 (1 fumble 
It was a mistake that could have cost the
Zellars 13-61, Kinder 3-11, Powlus 13-10, rec.), Hom 3, Henderson 3, Noble 3, Hankins Edwards 2-7 TO. Michigan: Biakabutuka 25-2. 
5. Miami (1) 2-0-0 1283 5 
Irish the game, but a stiff defensive stand al­
lowed only a Wolverine field goal. 
6. Penn St. (2) 2-0-0 1239 8 
Zataveski had an opportunity for redemp­
• SCORING SUMMARY

7. Colorado 1-0-0 1116 7 
tion. 

FIRST QUARTER yard run (Schroffner PAT). Key Play: A 
Notre Dame 3, Michigan 0 pass interference call on third and 16 gave 
8. Notre Dame 1-1-0 1095 3 
With him at the center of the line, the Irish 
(9 plays, 44 yards, 3:59) Notre Dame a first down deep in Wolverine 
11 :01-Btefan Schroffner connected on the territory. 
marched to a dramatic touchdown that gave
9. Arizona (2) 2-0-0 1091 9 
first field goal attempt of his collegiate Notre Dame 17, Michigan 17 
them the lead with less than a minute to 
career, a 32-yarder Key Play: Quarterback (10 plays, 64 yards, 3:50) 
play.

10. Wisconsin 1-0-0 1006 10 
Ron Powlus slipped a potential sack and Todd Collins found Jay Riemersma open in 
Because every mistake-even the most 
found Ray Zellars along the sideline for the endzone for a three yard touchdown 
11.Auburn 2-0-0 918 12 
minute-gnaws at the brawny senior, it was
eight yards. pass (Hamilton PAT). Key Play: Biakabutuka caught a screen pass and 
unclear how he would respond after the
12. Alabama (1) 2-0-0 877 11 
Michigan 7, Notre Dame 3 scampered to the eight yard-line. 
monumental miscue just a series earlier. 
(8 plays, 48 yards, 3:07) Michigan 20, Notre Dame 17 
He played as though it never occurred,
13.UCLA 2-0-0 792 13 
7:54-Tim Biakabutuka scampered for ten (6 plays, 55 yards, 1 :39 
protecting Powlus and opening holes for
yards and a touchdown. (Remy Hamilton :39-Hamilton connected on a 34-yard field 
Irish runners.

14.TexasA&M 2-0-0 785 16 
PAT). Key Play: Michigan recovered a goal. Key Play: A 17 -yard reverse to 
blocked field goal and advanced it for a first Mercury Hayes, who carried the ball to the
1.5.Tennesset; 1·1-0 R49 1Q 
down at the 11 yard line. Irish 17 yard-line. 
"Just put it behind you. You have to do it for the team," he said. "(The fumbled 
Notre Dame 10, Michigan 7 FOURTH QUARTER
16. North Carolina 1-0-0 582 17 
exchange) was obviously a devastating mis­
(14 plays, 80 yards, 6:43) Michigan 23, Notre Dame 17 
take, but there were another two minutes to
1:11--Dn fourth down from the one yard­(6 plays, 20 yards, 2:20) line, Powlus found Lee Becton in the corner 2:15-Hamilton connected on a 32 yard 
17.Texas 2-0-0 575 20 
play." 

of the endzone (Schroffner PAT). Key Play: field goal. Key Play: A botched quarter­
Game weeks are rough on Zataveski. He's
18.Virginia Tech 2-0-0 473 21 
Derrick Mayes caught a pass over the mid· back-center exchange was Notre Dame's 
a jumble of conflicting feelings, full of anxi­
die and took it to the one-yard line. third turnover and sel up Michigan's score.
19. Washington 1-1-0 346 25 
ety and anticipation. 
Notre Dame 24, Michigan 23 
He sweats every detail, every snap. 
SECOND QUARTER (4 plays, 36 yards, 1 :23) 
20. Southern Cal 1-1-0 335 14 
When one goes wrong, he's a wreck.
Notre Dame 1 0, Michigan 1 0 :52-Derrick Mayes made a twisting catch 
(4 plays, 3 yards, 1 :35) in the endzone, capping a dramatic last­
One went wrong Saturday. A very impor­
21. Oklahoma 1-1-0 233 15 
5:00-Hamilton converted a 32-yard field minute drive (Schroffer PAT). Key Play: 
tant one, but one that ultimately didn't affect 
goal attempt. Key Play: Lee Becton fum­Mike Miller returned the kickoff to the 
the outcome.

22. Brigham Young 2-0-0 197 
bled at Notre Dame's 18, setting up Michigr , , 36. 
He was a wreck.
Michigan's scoring drive. Mlch.lgan 26, Notre Dame 24 
"I can't describe how I feel right now," he
23.0hio St. 1-1-0 150 18 
(5 piays, 58 yards, :50) 

THIRD QUARTER :02-Hamilton kicked a 42-yard, game-win­
said, eyes still on the ground. "I guess I'll
24. Washington St. 2-0-0 130 
Notre Dame 17, Michigan 10 ning field goal. Key Play: Collins escaped 
have to think of something to say." 
(10 plays, 75 yards, 4:45) the Irish rush and found Riemersma for a 
No words were necessary.
7:58-Marc Edwards scored on an eight 26-yard gain . 
25. N. Carolina St. 2-0-0 128 
. f 
. I I
... 

----------------------~------~ 
Monday, September 12, 1994 page4 

The Observer/Jake Peters Wolverine back Ed Davis.lmges for extra yards as Irish defenders hang on . 
• fROM THE lENS 
Michigan 26 Notre Dame 24 
Notre Dame Stadium September 10, 1994 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
Linebacker Justin Goheen celebrates a sack in the first half. 


The Observer/Michael Hungeling Amani Toomer catches a fourth quarter pass. The Michigan wideout finished with 72 yards receiving. 

The Observer/Michael Hungeling Linebacker Steve Morrison sacks quarterback Ron Powlusin the second quarter. 
The Observer/Jake Peters Freshman defensive back John Mclaughlin celebrates his tackle. of Amani Toomer on the kickoff before Michigan's game-winning drive. 
\ 
\' 
\ 
\
... 


ACCENT 
Monday, September 12, 1994 page 13 
• fRESH THOUGHTS 
Getting to know my pesky 
roommate 
I cannot believe I am actu­ally here at Notre Dame. A person couldn't ask for a better place to go to school, or a better dorm to live in . 

But, one afternoon, I came Accent Columnist home from a hard days trot at marching band and was greeted by my new roommate, a cockroach the size of a Shetland pony. 
It glared at me with its cold, emotionless, black eye spots while its feelers twitched back and forth and pawed the floor like a bull ready to charge. 
For a moment I froze, but getting my wits about me, I slowly reached for my foot and removed my shoe, brandishing it as if it were a samurai sword. Then I made my move. 
In a flash of black leather, my trusty Diad ora sliced downward through the air and landed with a smack on the tiled floor, missing the fleeing target. 
At this point the clever insect scurried up the curtain that serves as a door for my closet, and into the cabinets above. Curiously enough, the cabinets have two rows of four round holes on each door which I have decided are probably air holes for whatever random rodents or insects live there. 
Luckily, the only thing in the cabinets are a couple of duffel bags, which have probably been turned into a four star roach motel, and a nursery for all the larvae stage baby roaches. 
But I am not bitter. I just went to the store, bought some roach motels, and placed them in every dark corner, nook and cranny, and pos­sible roach hangout in my room. 
The only problem now is that the roach is too large for the traps. Its like trying to park _a Winnebago in a one car garage. Instead of pm­soning the crusty critter, it merely entraps the gargantuan insect. 
For about three days I thought I had rid myself of the brown exoskeletoned roommate, or that he had moved on to another warm, dark corner of the building. Then one day in the shower, as I reached for my soap, I felt something brush against my foot. 
Looking down I saw him spinning around and around, caught in the drain's whirlpool. The bug, being defenseless at this point, pro­vided me with the perfect opportunity. 
I seized the chance and lifted my shampoo bottle to squash the pest, but through some kind of divine intervention the roach, in a burst of energy, paddled out of the whirlpool and happily slid into the next shower. 
It was then that I gained a new respect for the persistent pest. I mean a roach's life is a hard one. Eating rotten food, mating, hiding in the shadows, eating more rotten food, and then doing some more mating. Roach's have enough to worry about. 
So, far as I know, the roach is still lurking about the halls of Fisher, searching for small left-over crusts of Papa John's pizza, or a Snicker's wrapper with a smear of chocolate left. And maybe, just maybe, terrorizing some poor girl in Pangborn right now. We can only hope. 
Rollerblading: 
A sport, hobby, and workout growing in popularity 
By SHANNON FORBES 
Accent Writer 

L
ong ago, nestled in a small 
town in northern Minnesota, 
there lived a small, but avid group of high school hockey players who were very upset. Spring had arrived; the ice was thawing, and hockey skates were no longer of any use. For months the group had suf­fered through 6:30 a.m. practices, biting cold winds and Minnesota's lengthy winter. 
This close group of hockey players just could not accept the alighting of a season where hockey equip­ment had no place, so the group engi­neered a rough model of what would come to be one of the most popular pieces of sporting equipment in America. This invention marked the birth of in-line skating, commonly refered to as rollerblading. 
Today, ABC's "Nightline" has declared rollerblad­ing one of the fastest growing activities in the country. It rose to popularity as a crossover sport in which winter ath­letes-particularly hockey players­were able to stay in shape and keep their hockey form all year long. 
The idea gained notoriety and rollerblading soon became a favorite sport that has come to be incorporated 
into the lives of 
approximately 75% 
of all people 
between the ages 
sixteen and twenty-
four, according to 

"Nightline... Sophomore Jason Felger and freshman Chns Moore enJOying 1n-hne skat1ng on lessons, critiques, 
the Notre Dame campus. 
One of the reasons 

rollerblading has become so accepted is due to its versatility. "I used to rollerblade to stay in shape for hock­ey, but I've come to enjoy it so much that now I rollerblade for the fun of it," Notre Dame junior, Mark Lorrelli said. 
Many other Notre Dame and St.. Mary's students enjoy rollerblading as a relaxing past time, needed study break, or mode of transportation to and from class. 
Notre Dame sophomore Amy Martin "loves nothing more than rollerblading around campus on a nice day." 
South Bend resident, Jenny Achter's interest in rollerblading has gotten her a job at Outpost Sports. 
"Rollerblading is an excellent car­diovascular workout. It works and tones all the major muscles in the back, legs, and arms," she said. 
Rollerblading also gives the non­athlete a chance to exercise and to enjoy a fun hobby. Dedication to rollerblading can range from mere hobby to a seriously competitive sport. "Nighltine" reported that most large cities across America partici­pate in rollerblading marathons that are either five or ten kilometers. 
Whether hobby or competition, 
. . . 

rollerblading must be taken very seriously. According to "Nightline," last year rollerblading accidents were responsible for the greatest percentage of injured people treated in emergency rooms. Twisted ankles and broken wrists are the result of improper equipment or inadequate training. People must be well aware of certain rules before their first time rollerblading, according to Achter. 
First, people must realize that there are many different brands of rollerblades, and each one fulfills the needs of the particular level or pur­pose of each individual. Names like "K2", "Bauer", "Ultra Heels", "Oxygen", and "CCM" may initially mean little to the amateur, but the right brand of rollerblades can pre­vent painful accidents. 
It is also important to invest wisely in the right rollerblades. "Some peo­ple will run over to 'Venture' and buy a cheap pair of rollerblades for $50. These people will get hurt. It is important to spend the money and get something safe. The average price of a good pair of rollerblades is $190," Achter said. 
Some brands offer pumps that bet­
ter support the Achilles tendon; oth­
ers have five wheels that enable the 
skate to move much faster with less 
friction. Still others have new break­
ing systems that allow for less pres­sure on the heel. It is important for prospective rollerbladers to speak to pro­fessionals about which rollerblade is best for their particular needs. 
Secondly, people should not buy rollerblades right away. Most good sports stores allow customers to rent different types of rollerblades. To ensure the safety of new rollerbladers, most stores will even allow cus­tomers to skate in the store so acci­dents can be pre­vented. 
Thirdly, the 
... rollerblades them­selves are only part of the essen­tial equipment. Wrist guards, knee pads, and helmets are also necessary pieces of rollerblading equipment, to help prevent injury from in­evitable spills. 
Lastly, amateur rollerbladers should take lessons and learn slowly. Many 

. !"-Obse~rrom Penlz sports stores offer 
and suggestions 

for rollerbladers at all levels. 
Beginning rollerbladers need t_o gradually build up ankles and stabi­lize form and balance. This is espe­cially important for those beginning rollerbladers who have never roller­skated, ice skated, or downhill skied. 
Rollerblading can be beneficial for all age groups and can fulfill the needs of almost every individual. Although at first a small slope may appear as challenging as skiing down the Swiss Alps. Cracks in the side­walk can be as foreboding as the immense Grand Canyon, but success­ful rollerblading is merely a matter of practice and patience. Investing the time, effort, and money will result in an excellent, challenging, and enjoyable cardiovascular work­out. 
Monday, September 12, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 14 
Notre Dame opened the scor­head. The teams remained dead­Test ing at the 33:01 mark when After trading goals in the sec­locked until late in the period, 
If you see

---
Stacia Masters converted a long ond half, the Irish fell behind 3-when junior forward Michelle lead from Ashley Scharff to 2 in the first overtime, as McCarthy stole a William &
continued from page 20 
sports

notch her fourth goal of the Neaton dumped a head shot Mary throw-in and hammered need another 5-0 or 6-0 win." season. past Renola. in a 22-yard shot which de­
And his squad proved they William & Mary All-American With the pressure on, Notre flected off a defender and just 
happening 

were up to the pressure of fac­Natalie Neaton, whose hat trick Dame responded. inside the left post. ing top-10 competition on the accounted for all of the Tribe's Guerrero sent a looping shot The win raised the Irish 
call The

road again on Sunday, with a goals, tied the score 1-1 just inside the right goal post just record to 4-0. dramatic overtime win against minutes before the half, send­28 seconds into the second Next, the Irish travel to William & Mary. ing a shot just over Renola's overtime. Michigan State on Thursday. 
Observer 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day &om 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NEEDEDII A ride to CLEVELAND  THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  Desperately Need  SEEKING TO BUY TWO OR FOUR  •••••HELPIII**•• Plane tickets are  
NOTICES  on SEPT 16 will share gas 4-2364  NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  4 NAVY Ticketslll $ $ $ $  GA TICKETS TO ANY OR ALL NOTRE DAME HOME FOOTBALL  bought, the hotel room reserved... alii need is 2 BYU GA'sl Willing to  
ASAP I need a dependable  NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  Please Call Daniella  GAMES. CALL BILL HOGAN,  pay $$$ ... call Jen at X4820  
Alcoholics Anonymous student  weekend sitter for a 1 year old.  OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­ at x2537  DURING DAY AT OFFICE AT  
meetings will be held every Monday  References a plus. Call 232-5261  773-2034  (217)  I HAVE 2 STANFORD GA'S.  
at 8 pm in the Office of Alcohol and  leave a message.  DESPERATELY SEEKING GAs for  782-6995, AFTER 10 PM AT  WILL TRADE FOR 2 FLA.ST. TIX_  
Drug Education  THE PRIMROSE PATH BED &  PURDUE and NAVY. PLEASE  (217)696-9267.  CALL TED 256-5727  
NEEDED: 1 roommate for OC apt  BREAKFAST -Historic Home, quiet  HELP---$$$. Call Alisa -634-4355.  
EDWARDO'S NOW HIRING:  call 273-5299 thnx  setting, 4 guest rooms, shared  I NEED 1 BYU student ticket.  I NEED BYU GA'S, BYU STD'S,  
All positions/ shifts Flex. hrs.  baths. 20 minutes to campus.  HelpII  Please call KELLY x4026  AND 2 STANFORD GA'S.  
Apply in person 235 S. Michigan,  PART TIME WAREHOUSE WORK  616-695-6321.  I NEED 2 PURDUE GAs  MIKE X-3767.  
Accepting applications for part­ call Kim 271-2659  Need one G.A. Ticket for PURDUE  
USED TEXTS CHEAPIIII  time order fillers and stockers.  ROOMMATE NEEDED TO SHARE  Call X3357  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  
Buy & sell used books at the only  Approximately 20-25 hrs weekly.  HOME ON ANGELA BLVD. 30  Need 1 stud or GA for PERDU  CALL SUZY AT 4072  
hip place in town 1 0-6M-S/9-3Sun  Apply at Richmond Master Dist.  YDS FROM CAMPUS. $250  $$Please call JULIE x2534$$  NEEDED:  
PANDORA'S BOOKS  4202 Technology Dr. (west on  MONTH UTILITIES WASHER­ TICKETS FOR THE BC GAME.  
NO ave & Howard St 233-2342  Cleveland Rd to Technology Dr.),  DRYER INCLUDED. 232-2595  DESPARATELY NEEDED:  CALL LIZ AT 264-5012.  $$$$$  
or call Chris at 239-0310.  STUDENT OR GA'S FOR  
••••• TROOP NOTRE DAME •••••  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY.  STANFORD, PURDUE, NAVY  WANTED: 2 GA'S FOR PURDUE  • NEED 2 Stanford and 2 Purdue •  
Come and See what  MACRI'S DELl DOWNTOWN  PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC  AND A.F.. CALL RACH 233-1761  GAME FOR GRANDPARENTS!  GA'sl! Please call 4-1330.  
NO's only Hip Hop  Now hiring all positions. Good  EVENTS.  X 2911  $$$$$  
Dance Club is all about!!  starting pay plus many benefits and  219-291-7153.  WANTED II Chicago Alums need  
INFORMATION NIGHT:  incentives including bonus pay and  Two Student Ticket Books and 2  WANTED 3 GA EITHER NO VS  
MON. SEPT. 12 @ 7 p.m.  extra vacation days. 214 Niles Ave.  1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR  Michigan, BC and Stanford GAs.  PUR, STAN, BYU CALL COL 215­ 
In the Montgomery Theater  262-1351. Apply within.  RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS  Will pay$$$. Call (312)404-5502  355-7131  HAVE 2 NAVY GA'SI  
ILOST & FOUND I  ...... WANTED **** Knott Hall needs an interhall foot­ PROPERTIES. 272-6306 FOR SALE  (nights). Ask lor Dina or Rob. NEED 3 BYU GA TIX & 1 STUD BYU call 1722 if you have them  NO FAMILY REUNION needs Stanford TX. TOP DOLLAR. Call 517-332-4719.  NEED 1 STAN & 1 A.F. GA WILL TRADE OR BUY! CALL MARK 3362  
LOST : Silver and Turquoise ring  ball coach. Call Alise NOW at  I NEED 3 PURDUE GAs-x4872  
friday on South Quad. This has  4968 if you are interested.  RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR  I NEED 2 Purdue GAs II  BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU  
great sentimental value to me.  FOR ONLY $79 FOR TWO  Will pay big $$$  Desperately seeking BYU tickets  We still have 4 married student tick­ 
Please call Robert at x1 029 if  HELP WANTED:  SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV­ Please call Amy 4-3427  Will Pay great $$$$$$$$$$$$$.  et booklets for sale (NO id  
found.  ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER  ERY CALL:  Call Sarah at 273-6474  required!). Will sell whole booklet  
$$$REWARD  ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS  COLLEGIATE RENTALS,  I NEED STANFORD TICKETS.  or 631-5323.  or just individual games.  
NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND  272-5959.  PLEASEII  BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU  Call Sean@ x 1101.  
PLEASE HELP !I! GOLD  ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY  X3460AARON  
WOMEN'S SEIKO WATCH LOST  NEWS SERVICES,  67 HONDA CIVIC Wagon, 4WDr.,  seeking purdue and be ga's  I NEED PURDUE TIX!  
MONDAY SEPTEMBER 5TH­ 232-3205 OR 288-9361.  Manual ($3600). Call631-5411  karenx3792  SANDYx4638  
POSSIBLY BIT GALVIN AND BP.  NEED 2 OR 3 STANFORD GAs  
REWARD. CALL KELLEY X3427.  WANTED: RESPONSIBLE, KID­ SMC CLASS RING  CALL PATRICK 273-9760  NEED PAIR OF MARRIED STU­ I need 1 BYU GA and 1 AIR  
LOVING STUDENT WITH CAR TO  PETITE W/ DIAMOND  DENT SEASON TIX. JOHN 800­ FORCE GA. Have 2 NAVY GA's to  
FOUND­ BABYSIT 2 CHILDREN AGES 4 &6  10K GOLD  257-7210 EXT 1152.  sell/ trade. Mike 273-6925  
HUFFY 3-SP LADY'S BIKE-BUR­ IN MY HOME. 2-3 DAYS PER  MAKE AN OFFER  
GANDY. CALL SGT. GATTRELL 1­8340  WEEK FROM 2-6. PLEASE CALL 277-5786.  273-6205  Will trade 2 Purdue tics for 2 Stanford or Navy. Bob-277-2760.  TO TRADE -6 (6 TOGETHER) STANFORD FOR FSU. CHRIS OR  PERSONAL  
1985 Nissan Sentra, auto, air,  ED BULLEIT 800-766-6723.  
FOUND: A watch. Call Tom x2212  SKI RESORT JOBS -Hiring for  AMIFM cass; call631-7494  Will trede 2 BYU tics for 2  VETERANS: NEED MONEY FOR  
many positions for winter quarter.  Stanford or Navy. Bob at 277­ Have pairs of Stanford and Airforce  SCHOOL? JOIN THE INDIANA  
WANTED  Over 15,000 openings! For more information call: (206)634-0469 ext.  CHAIRS, BIKE, APPLE IIC WI PRINTER, MODEM ECT.272-6306  2760.  GA's willing to trade for Michigan or Fl. State GAsl!l Contact x4097  ARMY NATIONAL GUARD. GOOD LEADERSHIP POSITIONS AVAIL­ 
V55841  HELP! I need PARENTS' WKEND  asap.  ABLE NOW. CALL MAJOR TIM  
ARE YOU READY FOR A HEAV­ FOR SALE:  Tixl Kathy x4850  WARRICK (219) 234-9258.  
ENLY EXPERIENCE?  National Park Jobs -Over 25,000  SMITH CORONA PWP 3650 PER­ Need 2 BYU GA tix. Need 3  
BECOME PART OF AN INTER­ openings! (including hotel staff, tour  SONAL WORD PROCESSOR  NEED STANFORD GA's BADLY.  Stanford STD. tix. Need 2-6  FRESHMEN-SOPHOMORES:  
ESTING, CHALLENGING RETAIL  guides, etc.) Benefits & bonuses!  WITH SCREEN. PAID $400. SELL  HAVE 2 NAVY TIX.  Stanford GA tix. I'm in some serious  LEARN LEADERSHIP AND EARN  
OPERATION. PREVIOUS FOOD  Apply now for best positions. Call:  FOR $200. CALL 272-3753 AFTER  Will trade or buy. Bryan x1190  NEED so please call Rachael at  MONEY FOR SCHOOL. INDIANA  
SERVICE EXPERIENCE HELP­ 1-206-545-4804 ext. N55841 R  7 PM OR LV. MESSAGE & WILL  x4667. Will pay BIG MONEY.  ARMY NATIONAL GUARD. CALL  
FUL. IMMEDIATE OPENING.  CALL BACK.  STUDENT AND GAS NEEDED  MAJOR TIM WARRICK (219)  
HOURS 1:30-6:30 MONDAY THRU  FOR BYU AND GAS FOR AF.  NEED 1 MICH. 4 PUR.,  234-9258.  
FRIDAY AND EVERY OTHER SATURDAY 8:30-2:00.  SPRING BREAK '95-SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!II  TICKETS  PLEASEI CALL JEANNE AT X2476.  + 2 STAN. STUD TIX. CALL 234-8958.  
APPLY IN PERSON AT HEAVEN­ Student Travel Services is now hir­ WANTED:  
LY HAM, 2307 EDISON BETWEEN  ing campus representatives. Lowest  NEED 2 GA'S FOR ALL GAMES.  Need 2 Navy GA's  EXERCISERS WHO ARE LOOK­ 
8:30-10:00 OR  rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Day1ona  CALL BOB 219-232-5297.  NEEDED-2 STANFORD GA'S  Call Burke x169  ING FOR A FUN, ENERGETIC  
2:00-5:00.  and Panama City Beach. Call1­ CALL JENNY 4-4021  AEROBICS PROGRAM. JOIN US  
800-648-4649.  NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE &  4 SALE...Stud Tix Booklet  AT JAZZERCISE,  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  STANFORD! X2174.  Best Offer. x2977  GEORGETOWN SHOPPING CEN·  
-.(""  BREAK TRIPS! SELL 8 TRIPS &  NEED LOTS OF BYU TIX HAVE  TER.  
GO FREE! BEST TRIPS &  HELPI My uncle will lose all respect  A LOCAL BUSI ~ESSMAN NEEDS  AIR FORCE  Will trade 4 BYU GA's for 4  277-0111.  
PRICES\ BAHAMAS, CANCUN,  for me, if I don't score a bunch of  2 PAIRS OF GA SEASON TICK­ & PURDUE TIX.  Stanford GA's. Call Scott (ND 91)  LESS THAN 10 MINS. FROM  
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITYI GREAT  Stanford/NO tickets. If you can help  ETS. 272-7233  CALL ERIN 4015.  @(201 )402-9372  CAMPUS.  
RESUME EXPERIENCE! 1-600­ please call, money is no object.  STUDENT DISCOUNTS AVAIL­ 
678-63861  Bob Ricci,  ST. JUDE, WANT 2-4 SEASON OR  Looking to trade 2 Navy GA's  ABLE.  
201-239-2222 or 906-289-0199.  INDIVIDUAL GA TIX.  for 2 Stanford GA's. Kristen X4636  Please Please Please  
PART TIME WORK AVAILABLE  312-404-4903 DAN.  or (715)341-0627.  Sell me your 4 PURDUE GA's  PRAY TO ST. JUDE, PATRON OF  
TAKING PHYSICAL INVENTO­ Wanted- all together. I have $$$.  IMPOSSIBLE CAUSES.  
RIES. WORK AROUND YOUR  A N.D or S.M.C. faculty or staff  WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU  HAVE 2 NAVY GA's to trade for 2  Heather 4-2686  
SCHEDULE. DAYS AND/OR  member interested in a expense  TICKETS. C"'LL  STANGA's +CASH. Also NEED 1  Call me firstlllllllllllllll  GO ACROSS CAMPUS UNDER A  
WEEKENDS. $5.25 PER HOUR  paid ski trip to Crested Butte  800-922-2327 JANET.  FSU GA. BIG $$$$$$$  GROOVY TIE-DYED WOOD­ 
CALL 272-0406 CLANCY INVEN­ Colorado, Jan 6-15 with the ski  Call Dave #3494  NEED 2 B.C. TIX. WILL PAY BIG$  STUCK UMBRELLA. $13.00 +  
TORY SERVICES  club. If interested please contact  CALL RYAN@4-1913  S&H.  
Kevin Malone@ 272-1352  NO VS FSU NOV. 12, CITRUS  CALL 1-600-259-1250 TO  
RESORT JOBS-Earn to $12/hr. +  BOWL  NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME.  I Need 1 Stanford student ticket.  ORDER.  
tips. Theme Parks, Hotels, Spas, &  FAN NEEDS TICKETS. PLEASE  PLEASE CALL CHRISSY x3415  Call Dan x3883  
more. Tropical & Mountain destina­ CALL 407-246-1679. MAY CALL  $5.50 HAIRCUT  
tions worldwide. Call (206)632-0150  WANTED: TIX FOR PURDUE  COLLECT.  NEED 1 PURDUE stu. or GA tick­ Need 2 Michigan stud. tickets.  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
ext. R55841  GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR.  et.Call BRAD x1999.  Call Wade x3883  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
JILL 273-6942  I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.  233-4767  
WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST  272-6551  HELP! Wanted: 1 student tix or 2  $$$$$$$$$$$  
GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY  GA's to Purdue. Please call Mary  Parents & Iii sis R flying in for the  OJDJDJOJDJOJDJDJDJDJDJDJ  
SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO­ Desperately need 1-3 GA's for Air  at #634-2994.  STANFORD GAME. Need 2-4  The Alumni-Seoior Club is looking  
MOTE SPRING BREAK TO  Force, Navy or BYU. Please call  GA'sl  for a OJ to work busy nights, espe­ 
JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS,  Ann@ x4544.  4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED.  DESPERATE!!! Need 2 Stanford  Please Call Dayne 273-4412  cially football weekends. Please  
FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE  CALL X2875 (NICKY)  GA's for out-of-town relatives.  $$$$$$$$$$$  pick up an application at the  
TRAVEUCOMMISSIONSI SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-600-426-7710.  SOCCER REFEREES! Students needed to referee soccer games for  Willing to pay $$$. Call X4620  @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  Student Activities office and return it by Friday, Sept. 16.  
southside elementary school  WANTED:  I need 2 BYU GAs.  @  Fun work-good tipsI  
FUNDRAISING Choose from 3 dif­ (Grades 5-8), located near  2-4 GA Purdue Tickets. $100 per  Will pay Big $$$.  Need 2 GA's for BYU. Please call  DJDJDJOJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJ  
ferent fundraisers lasting either 3 or 7 days. No Investment. Earn $$$  Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. All games scheduled between 4  ticket. 515-965-0512 ----------------1  Please call Laura: 264-4328.  Katie 282-1603  STEREO FOR SALE  
for your group plus personal cash  and 5:30pm, Monday-Friday,  Need tix: 5 BYU G.A'S; 4 STAN­ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Need 4 Navy Ga's  Used 1991 Nakamichi 2-stack  
bonuses for yourself. Call1-600­ Sept. 9-0ct 29. $15-$20 per game.  FORD G.A'S; 2 STANFORD  I need two Stanford GAs. Please  David x3406  Cd/Cassette Player  
932-0528, Ext. 65  Must have referee uniform. Call  STUD.--CALL JOE @X2765  call Karen at 271-6992. Top dollar.  AMIFM Receiver, antenna incl.  
291-4200 or 291-8731.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NEED 2 GAs TO PURDUE  Two 9" speakers, remote control  
ASSISTANT SWIM COACHES lor  Need 4 GA's four Purdue game,  CALLx3213  Call Pee Wee x1385  
a local age group team.  FOR RENT  together please for family. Chris x1955  I need 4 GAs for any home game BIG $$. Ruth x2359  ••• ATTENTION ALL VERY •••  LADIES OF COLUMBUS  
Afternoon and/or evening hours,  •• COMPASSIONATE FEMALES ••  1st Meeting of Year  
various days of the week.  ROOMMATE needed. Female pre!.  HELP! I need 2 TIX to the Stanford  Desperately need 1 Stud. Tix for  Tues. 9/13@7:30  
Call 289-SWIM.  Oak Hill Condo. Own room & bath.  STANFORD GA'S NEED 4.  Gamel Call Patty at  HTH at Purdue and BYU gameslll  Knights of Columbus building  
Call 273-4485.  MATT 257-Q564  1-800-697-9141,1eave message.  Please call Steve x3213  (next to the bookstore)  


~-~ ~-~--------------~---------~ 
Monday, September 12, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• VOLLEYBAll 
Unbeaten Irish stand as biggest of the four ---­

The Irish rounded out the weekend with a victory over WISH TO JOIN THE CATHOLIC CHURCH? 
the University of Louisville. 
The Cardinals also gave the LOOKING FORA PARISH SETTING, BUT DON'T 
HAPPY 
Irish a hard time, going four WANT TO GO OFF CAMPUS? 
games, but the Irish pulled out the victory with scores of 15-9, 8-15, 15-8, and 15-10. They 
21ST 
IS A WEEK DAY EVENING BETTER WITH were led again by Peters and
BIRTHDAY
YOUR SCHEDULE? 

Harris who combined for 33 kills, but also received a strong
SARA
Then, 

performance from freshman 
Sacred Heart Parish 
outside hitter Jamie Lee who in the Crypt on campus is for you!!! 
contributed 13 kills to the Irish effort.
see ya later Amy Lee 
Coach Brown is very happyFor the with the excellent start of the
We Love You Sara r
Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults. 
season. She believes her team is learning much and improv­Call Sacred Heart Parish at 
ing, especially in the last week 
The Girlsfrom "CVA' 
as the competition has improved. 
631-7508 

ATTENTION JUNIORS! 
CLASS RINGS ARE NOW AVAILABLE FOR PICKUP 
----~'~\ \•
-, ....:;-o'P.I) ~· . , 
. •JA~·Q."\ . 
.·f· ·.·>'(\.~.. . ~~.t 'l'­
\ • \ •·,~: o, ' I ( 1 '·; ... -~·. ~-. (:
.. "·· . . .· : 
~-'I ' I l ' ·'' .
• -· 
'. . ,· -·~· .
-..,
"'-,.....,,
"-...,·,.... 

~-. 

....______.I 
'· .... 
.;~ 
. 

... " 
RINGS MAY BE PICKED UP IN THE RING OFFICE SPECIAL RING OFFICE HOURS SEPT. 12-16 9 a.1n• .. 4:30 p.1n Closed 12 p.1n. -1 p.1n. The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus" Open Monday through Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 

By BETSY BAKER 
Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team is off to its best start ever, as they improved their record to 9-0 this weekend with victo­ries over Indiana, Kentucky, and Louisville this weekend at the Big Four tournament in Louisville, Kentucky. 
It is the second year in a row that the Irish have been the champions of-the Big Four tournament, a title earned by hard work and persistence. The Irish first faced a tough Indiana team, who forced the Irish to go four games with scores of 15-7, 13-15, 15-8, and 15-10. Indiana surprised Coach Debbie Brown, as they put forth a very strong defen­sive showing. 
"IU played very well against us," Brown said. "I knew they were going to be good, but defensively they surprised us." 
Christy Peters led the Irish in the match against the Hoosiers with an amazing 24 kills, as Shannon Tuttle contributed 54 assists. 
"Christy played outstanding by hitting a variety of sets," said Brown of Peters' perfor­mance. 
"Shannon also did a good job of getting Chiisty the ball," she added, 
In the game ·against the Kentucky, freshman Angie Harris led the Irish with 10 kills and 13 digs as they defeat­ed the Wildcats 15-2, 15-5, 15­
5. Kentucky's performance was a surprise, as they were expected to be more of an opponent to the Irish. One rea­son could have been the loss in five games to Indiana the previ­ous night. 
"Kentucky was down because of the loss to IV," said Brown. "They were very flat against us." 
I I 1 I 
• 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 12, 1994 
-~~~------;;==~~.;;;;~------~-=~----~~----~=:=:=::;~~~~~--~~~n~•~S~h~:::::::::::::-~T~o~n~y~Capasso'sgoallate in the 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Campus Golf -Sophomore Brian Donohoe won the Campus Golf Championship over the weekend with a four round score of 288. Joel Hepler took second with a 292. Mike Cibula and Bill Moore took third and fourth with scores of 295 and 296 respec­tively. 
In-Line Hockey Tournament-This one day, double elimination tournament will take place on Sunday, September 18 at Outpost Sports (3602 N. Grape Rd., Mishawaka, IN 259-1000). It will be an 8 team, 5 on 5 (including goalie) tournament. All equipment will be provided by Rollerblade, bur partici­pants are encouraged to pro­vide their own skates. The fee is $10 per team and you must register in advance at RecSports. For more informa­tion call RecSports at 1-6100. 
Climbing Wall The Climbing Wall located in the Rockne Memorial will be open for operation beginning Tuesday, September 13. The hours will Tuesdays and Thursdays 7:00-10:00 pm and Sundays 2:00-5:00 pm. All users have to complete an ori­entation session before they will be allowed open use. Call RecSports at 1-6100. 
Aerobic Classes -Classes 
have started for Challenge U 
Fitness. Make sure to bring 
your green exerciser ID card 
with you. Some classes are still 
open. Call the RecSports office 
to find out more information. 
Special Olympics -Anyone interested in volunteering for the Special Olympics in swim­ming should contact Coach Dennis Stark at 1-5983. 

University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 


DUBLIN, IRELAND JUNIOR YEAR ABROAD 
INFORMATION MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1994 6:30P.M. 129 DEBARTOLO 
Application Deadline December 1, 1994 

oJlvftimg 
Jfe~m 
The Men's and Women's Varsity Diving Teams will be holding open tryouts for all those interested. There will be an open 
meeting Monday, September 12, 4:00pm. 
Tryouts will be Tuesday, September 13th and Wednesday September 14th. 
If you are unable to make the meeting or have any questions please contact: 
Tim Welsh, Head Coach 631-7042 Randy Julian, Asst Coach 631-8455 
continued from page 20 

and Northwestern, but it was important that they show that they can control the pace of the game. That is exactly what they did against the Buckeyes. 
"We tried to play more to the feet against Northwestern, but didn't do a great job," Berticelli explained. "Tonight we played with more confidence, more experience and more talent. We played better today than did Wednesday (against the Wildcats)." 
A big reason for this was the play of the starting lineup. Turner turned in another great game as he scored one goal and added two assists. One assist coming off a crossing pass from senior forward Tim Oates. Turner headed the pass back to the center of the penalty box where senior midfielder Jason Fox punched it past Buckeye goalkeeper Chad Abend. 
Oates added another assist along with sophomore mid­fielder Konstantin Koloskov on Richardson's goal from a shot on the outside. Freshman mid­fielder Bill Savarino also as­sisted on sophomore midfielder second half. 
Yet, the man with the biggest game was senior midfielder Keith Carlson. Carlson assisted on the first goal of the game to Turner, and later scored a goal of his own on the assist of Turner. 
"Carlson played a great game at wide midfielder," Berticelli said. "He has really matured into this role, especially since he is used to playing up front (as a forward)." 
Yet, even with a great win, there is room for improvement. 
Any improvement, though, is not drastic, and the Irish look ready and determined as they enter their conference schedule this Thursday at Northern Illinois. 
Recycle The Observer 

Want to have a great Fall Break and be back in time for Parents' Weekend? 
Itso, participate In the APPALACHIA SEMINAR this fall break!Ill 
make new friends learn through senice see new and excltln& places 
Info sessloa ·Tuesday SepL 13, 6:30-7:00 pm at the Center For Social Concerns 
QuestioiU1111 Contact: Laura Stolpman, 634-1145 or Shannon Dunn, 173-0741 Angle Appleby, 631-9473 Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5193 
ART PRINT & POSTER SALE 
Sponsored by LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
FEATURING: 

• Prints of Master Artists 
(Including the works of Dali, Gauguin, Kandinsky, Miltisse, Miro, Monet, O'Keeffe, Picasso, Remington, Renoir, & Van Gogh, plus many others) 
• M. C. Escher Prints 
• 
Personality Posters 

• 
Rock Bands 

• 
Black & White Photography 

• 
Contemporary Posters 

• 
Framed Prints 






DATES: TODAY Thru FRIDAY TIME: 9:30A.M. -6:00 P.M. PLACE: NOTRE DAME ROOM (2nd FLOOR), LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
3 PRINTS FOR ONLY $17! 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------~ 
·,lr 

Monday, September 12, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Bucs go long as Colts fall short 
By FRED GOODALL 
Associated Press 
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers, who have had trouble scoring from short range, went long distance Sunday on the Indianapolis Colts. 
Craig Erickson threw for 313 yards, including scoring passes of 50 yards to Eharles Wilson and 48 yards to Jackie Harris, as the Bucs weathered another big day for Marshall Faulk to beat the Colts 24-10. 
The smallest crowd for a home opener in Tampa Bay his­tory (36,631) watched Erickson record the second-highest pass­ing total of his career with. 19 completions in 24 attempts. He put the game away with a 3­yard TD pass to Courtney Hawkins in the fourth quarter. 
Faulk, the second pick in this year's draft, had a spectacular debut with 143 yards rushing in the Colts' 45-21 season-opening victory over the Houston Oilers. He was just as impressive against the Bucs (1-1). running for 104 yards on 18 carries and catching seven passes for 82 yards. 
Faulk sprained his left wrist on the first play of the game and missed that series, but played the rest of the game, 
The Tampa Bay defense kept him out of the end zone, though, holding the Colts (1-1) to Dean Biasucci's 26-yard field goal and an 8-yard touchdown run by Roosevelt Potts. 
Faulk had a 16-yard catch that kept the field goal drive alive and had a 23-yard run and another crucial third-down recpetion on the 11-play, 92­yard drive the Colts used to trim Tampa Bay's lead to 17­10. 
The Bucs put the game away with a 90-yard drive. Erickson had completions of 35 yards to Harris, 23 yards to Vince Workman and 25 yards to Tyji Armstrong before clearing the hurdle that frustrated the offense in a 21-9 loss to Chicago on opening day. 
The Bears held the Bucs to three field goals, stopping them each time they advanced the ball inside the 20-yard line. This time, Erickson found Hawkins wide open in the back of the end zone for the clinch­ing touchdown with 6:46 to go. 
1. Student Rates Available 2. Stairmaster, Exercise bikes & treadmills 3. No membership fee WALKING DISTANCE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS (Next to Turtle Creek on SR 23) Call for Class Schedule or Information 277--2974 ..WlfWII ~--~ a~ //?6-teJ.J ·~ -~ 1803 South Bend Ave. ~ Campus Shoppes Plaza ~ 277-2974 ll::.~:d wtth •nr ~~~~er. New cuatome,. on~.  
Campus Bible Study* (CBS) sponsored by N.D. Campus Ministry All Students Invited Interfaith Bible Study (Ecumenical) every Tuesday starting Sept. 13, 1994. One hour meetings 7:00 to 8:00pm Conference Room Badin Hall Bring your own Bible and bring a friend. • For information call Fr. AI D'Alonzo, CSC or Campus Ministry Office 631-5242/631-5955 ---~ ot!St­i!oi!­------=-­- 

Hawkins, who had been side­lined since the first preseason game with a broken hand, gave the offense a lift with four catches for 72 yards. His 32­yard reception, along with Willie Green's one-handed grab for a 14-yard gain, set up Michael Husted's 47-yard field goal for a 10-3 halftime lead. 
Until Hawkins' big play, most of Tampa Bay's offense had come on Wilson's touchdown. The Tampa Bay receiver beat Ashley Ambrose on the play, catching the ball and running away from the diving defender at the Colts' 20. 
Harris' touchdown gave the Bucs a 17-3 lead and forced Indianapolis to open up its offense. That didn't, however, mean abandoning Faulk. 
The rookie running back had a 47-yard reception in the fourth quarter, but Tampa Bay clung to its 14-point lead by stopping the threat at its 1 with 
3:08 left. 
Jim Harbaugh completed 19 of 24 passes for 206 yards. His last attempt of the day was intercepted in the end zone by Tampa Bay's Martin Mayhew. 
Redskins 38, Saints 24 
Brian Mitchell ran a punt back 74 yards for a touchdown, returned a kickoff 86 yards to set up another score and John Friesz threw four touchdowns in the Washington Redskins 38­25 victory over the New Orleans Saints Sunday. 
Mitchell's punt return staked Washington (1-1) to a 14-3 halftime lead and his runback with the second-half kickoff helped the Redskins to a 21-3 lead that New Orleans (0-2) tried desperately, but could not overcome. 
Friesz, who had never before 
thrown for three or more 
touchdowns in his 5-year 
career, threw two to Henry 
Ellard, one to Cedric Smith and another to Desmond Howard. 
Friesz completed 15 of 22 attempts for 195 and was not intercepted in his competition for the fulltime starter's job with Heath Shuler, who never got into Sunday's game. 
A first quarter Saints' punt went out of bounds on the Washington 31, but New Orleans was penalized 5-yards and forced to punt over. Mitchell caught it on the 26 and raced through the Saints de­fense for the touchdown. 
Mitchell returned two punts for 90 yards, three kicks for 141 yards. He also rushed for 27 yards on seven carries. 
Both Redskins first-quarter touchdowns came from special teams play. Their first score, Friesz's 1-yard pass to Ellard, came after a Redskin's punt hit Saints' cornerback Tyrone Legette and bounced off him. Lamont Hollinquest recovered the football on the 14-yard line. 
In the second half, Mitchell caught Morten Andersen's opening kickoff 1-yard deep in the end zone and ran it back to the New Orleans 15. Six plays later Friesz hit Smith for a 1­yard touchdown, making it 21-3 Redskins. 
Friesz went to Ellard again in the third quarter for a 41-yard touchdown. 
In the fourth quarter, Chip Lohmiller made it 31-9 with a 31-yard field goal. Then Friesz found Howard with a 31-yard scoring pass to make it 38-9 Washington. 
New Orleans, which had opened the game with a deci­sive drive -66 yards in 14 plays, eating 6 minutes and 51 seconds, only to see it end as so many Saints' drives have ended over the years -with an Andersen field goal, rallied in the fourth quarter as Jim Everett hit Torrance Small for a 4-yard touchdown with 4:41 remaining. Everett's pass was good for the 2-point conversion. 
Happy 21st Birthday! 
Mary Louise Myrter 
Love, Mother, Dad, Brett, Tom and Steve 
He failed to convert in the third quarter after a 17-yard touch­down pass to Michael Haynes. 
After an on-side kick, the Saints scored again with 2:05 left on a 34-yard run by Brad Muster. 
Everett, who was under pres­sure most of the day, completed 29 of 34 for 358 yards and two touchdowns. He was sacked once and intercepted once. 
The Redskins had the football only 4:07 in the first quarter and picked up only 50 yards total offense. but thanks to their special teams, it didn't matter, they led 14-3 at the half. 
Falcons 31, Rams 13 

Andre Rison backed his boast, and then some. 
..,.1'

The Atlanta Falcons receiver promised his team would beat the Los Angeles Rams, and Rison made sure they did, catching two touchdown passes in a 31-13 victory Sunday. 
Rison caught 12 passes for 123 yards, and Jeff George was 29-of-38 for 287 yards and three TDs. 
Rison's bold prediction came after the Falcons lost 31-28 to Detroit in overtime last week. 
"Yking we'll win the game." 
George, in his fifth season, went over the 10,000-yard passing mark before leaving af­ter his second 16-yard scoring toss to Rison with 11:21 left in the game. He also ran his string of passes without an in­terception to 277, third best in NFL history behind Bernie Kosar's 308 and Bart Starr's 294. 
George's other scoring pass covered 2 yards to Terance Mathis, capping a 13-play, 74­yard drive on Atlanta's first possession of the game. 
The Rams' Chris Miller, Atlanta's former quarterback, threw three interceptions, one a tipped pass by Chris Doleman that Darnell Walker grabbed and raced 44 yards for a third­
quarter touchdown. 
Walker's touchdown was 

mere icing for the Falcons (1­
1). who gave June Jones his 
first NFL coaching victory in 
his home debut. 
Miller produced one of the 

Rams' two touchdowns, a 34­
yard pass to Isaac Bruce on a 
4th-and-17 play in the second 
quarter that cut the lead to 14­
7 with 1:18 left in the half. 
During the 73-yard drive, 

Miller overcame two holding 
penalties and a 16-yard loss on 
a sack by Walker. Miller com­
pleted 10 of 20 passes for 187 
yards. 
The Rams' other touchdown 

came with 4:07 remaining. 
> -.• 
.... 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 12, 1994 
• SAINT MARY'S SPORTS 

_._-Heidelburg serves up four-set win against St. Mary's 
By JENNIFER LEWIS Saint Mary's Sport Editor 
Saint Mary's lost it's first match against Heidelburg College, 3-1. Losing in the first two games 10-15, 15-17, the team rebounded by winning the third game 16-14, but un­fortunately, the Belles could not hang onto the lead and lost in the fmal game 9-15. 
Heidelburg's serves hurt the Belles. Saint Mary's allowed Heidelburg to make two aces each game, according to coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. 
"We were not able to run our offense the correct way," said Schroeder-Biek. "Because Heiderburg had three tough servers that kept throwing us off." 
Saint Mary's is trying two new setters this season, junior Sara Stronczek and freshman Kelly Meyer. Stonczek made ten kills, five blocks, and tied Meyer with twenty-four assists. 

"I would like to keep Meyer as my setter using a 5-1 of­fense," said Schroeder-Biek. "But, Stronczek is stepping in and helping us so much." 
Stronczek, junior transfer student Kelley Prosser, and junior Anne Lawerene were nominated captains by their teammates and coach. 
"Prosser established herself so well," said Schroeder-Biek. "When she walked in she was immediately respected because of her talent and leadership qualities." 
"I thought it was very odd that I was picked as captain," said Prosser. "Because, I'm a 
fud~~du~~li~thered
of the freshman." 
Prosser had fifteen kills and twelve digs. Freshman Meg Kelly had fourteen kills and lead the team with eighteen digs. 
Heidelburg did not beat Saint Mary's because of the absence 
Inter Varsity Christian Fellowship Introductory Bible St~dy Wednesday, September 14th 
7:00-8:30 pm at the esc 

Do you want to show your spirit at the upcoming Notre Dame vs. Michigan State game, but think you can't because there are no more tickets? WRONG!! There's always the: 
D'.LI:CE« J[c;;.~ 
s-rA:'x·&:: -r::.:c-.z:&::-r 
:.::..o•:a:==::a:=0£:~"'2'" 
TilES. SEPTEMBER 13 6-8 PM AT THE STEPAN CENTER 
Open to all Notre Dame, Siant Mary, and Holy Cross studnets. One person, one ID, one entry. Winners can buy up to 2 tickets. 
DON'T MISS OUT ON THE ACTION!! 
of talent, but rather the lack of experience, according to Prosser. 
"When the pressure was on, they really pulled together as a team," said Schroeder-Biek. " I saw so many good things in this game. There is so much potential, that I know we can work." 
"By the end of the season," said Prosser. "We will be beat­ing teams of Heidelburgs' cal­iber." 
This game was not a big loss to the Belles, according to Schroeder-Biek. The more im­portant teams will come later in the season. 

.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Catch the Action! 

-Round trip bus transportation to Michigan State 
September 17th 
The bus leaves the Alumni/Senior Club at 9:30 am 
Tickets: $15 
On sale now at the LaFortune Info Desk 
--.l."­

SUB-way. SUB-stantial. 

.. The 13th-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team has won nine straight matches and 27 of 31 individual games to begin the season -the best start in school history. 

[ 7:30 TOMORROW NIGHT!) 
NOTRE DAME 
vs. PURDUE 


Joyce Athletic Center -Main Arena ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 
, ' I , ~ ' \ . t , : ' 

page 19

Monday, September 12, 1994 The Observer • TODAY 
GARY LARSON 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE 
Anyone who signed up for 6tudent Government on Activities Night can pick up an application this week in the Student Government Office 
• 

on the second floor of LaFortune. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
! WAKE UP! (O~E QU\CK! 
DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
1 Say "I do" again 33 Oaxaca waters 6 March starter 35 Dictionaries and 9 Diplomatic skills thesa~ruse.s 
14 Dwelling place 37 Orgamc soli 15 U.N. member 38 Subject of this 18 Honolulu hello puzzle 17 Scrabble 39 Lockup 
anagram~. etc. 40 Preambles 19 Bottoms of 42 "You-Have 
graphs to Be So Nice" 20 Disney dog 43 "The Sultan of 21 House of Lords Sulu" author 
members 44 Crooner 22 Mosque chiefs Williams 23 Ave. crossers 45 Jokester's 24 "I've been props 
-!" 48 Nightclub bits 25 City on the 47 Tricia Nixon 
Brazos 27 Ear cleaner 48 New Deal org. 29-race 51 Move furtively 
(finished first) 54 Barely open 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-7-+:;::.+-i~F.-1 28 Connectors 28 Housebroken 29 Circumlocutory 
DO '(Q\l TI-\11'\K LO'IE IS t-\0\1-Ut-IG 13\rl 1\ B\Oli-\E.t-\\o._L REP..C.\\Ot-1 DE'SIG~ED lt> 
1>\f..KE 5\lRE Cl\JR 
GENES GET 
Pf>-'S'SEI) 0~ ? 
56 Bewail 
57 Start of the French workweek 
58 Some of them are famous 80 Not-in the 
world 81 Prayer word 82-nous 83 Ex-baseball 
commish 
Ueberroth 64 Light time 85 Lucy's landlady 
DOWN 
1 Singer Lou 2 Enemy vessel 3TH IS 
HERE IRON SENT 
4Whirlpool 5 B.A. or Ph.D. 6 Like August 
weather, 
perhaps 7 Client a Computer 
access codes 9 City vehicle 
10 Battle depicted in "The Last Command" 
11 Hip joint 12Notus 13 Freshness 
18 Quickly: Abbr. 24 Towel word 

WI-\~IE.'IER IT \'S, \IS t>.LL Tt\P.,-(5 KEEPING 1'<\E I"Rotv\ SIRII-1\\Gl\~G '(OJ RIG\{\ 
N.OW. 


30 Poet laureate, 1843-50 31 Similar 32 Mil. officer 33-Romeo 34 Well-mannered 35 Incoherent speech 36 Off Broadway award 38 Is obstinate 
41 More erratic 
42 Humanitarian Dorothea 

45 Where a cruise 51 Masher's calls comeuppance 46 Previn or 
52 Politico Clare 

Kostelanetz 
Soothe­47 Disk jockey 
53-the finish Kasem 55 AI Hirt hit 

49 San Diego pro 56-Blanc
so Photographer Adams 59 ltsy-bitsy 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

M.o\-1\<:. 1'<\\0t-IIG\{\ 
REI\'SS\lRt>-~Ct.S A.Rr;.. ~£.\fER 'IEI<'i RE/\5'5\lRI~G. 
• 
SCOTT ADAMS 


• 


... 

-zr Gripes, comments, ideas .... call 1-4554! -zr 
'',I 

-----------------------------------------------------, 
Deja vu­Field goal ruins Notre Dame rally 


SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, September 12, 1994 
• 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Notre Dame scores high on tough tests 
ByRIANAKEY Associate Sports Editor 
"This is a big win for us but it's just one win. We still have more big games to play and our team realizes that." 
It's a common quote for a head coach after a big victory, words meant to maintain a team's focus and motivation. In fact, Michigan football coach Gary Moeller said almost ex­actly the same thing after the Wolverines knocked off the Fighting Irish. 
But when Irish women's soc­cer coach uttered those words after his team upended no. 4 George Mason 1-0 on Friday, he meant them. 
Just two days after Notre Dame avenged last season's first-round NCAA loss, Petrucelli and his no. 3 squad dropped no. 10 William & Mary, 4-3 in overtime. 

Notre Dame goaltender Jen Renola recorded her third shut-out of the season against George Mason. Renola saved four shots in the first half be­fore the Irish took control in the second period, not allowing a single Patriot shot. 
Rosella Guerrero put in the game winner for the Irish at the 54:49 mark when she redi­rected a cross by Holly Manthei and scored over George Mason goalie Jen Mead. 
The contest was the first real challenge for Notre Dame this season, following blow-outs of Rutgers and LaSalle. 
"We need to be challenged," Petrucelli said in looking for­ward to the game. "We don't 
see TEST I page 14 
• MEN's SoccER 

Irish finesse their way past Buckeyes 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Sports Writer 

-· 
In a disap­pointing weekend in which one team's national champi­onship hopes were dashed, 

Tont
another's 
Richardson
shines bright. The Notre Dame men's soccer team showed tremendous depth, skill and intelligence as they defeat­ed Ohio State 5-0 last Friday. 
The Irish dominated the game from the start as senior midfielder Tont Richardson and freshman forward Ryan Turner scored goals with in the first ten minutes of the match. 

It was the Irish's acknowl­edgment of the Buckeye's phys­ical strength that forced the game instead, towards finesse, leading to the dominating vic­tory. 
"We knew we had to keep the ball on the ground," coach Mike Berticelli said. "Their strength was in having the ball in the air, whereas ours would be in using our speed and quickness. We did this with more balls to the feet, so it would make them run around and keep the match from being too physical." 
This does not mean that the Irish are unable to play a phys­ical game. They have played physical matches in their last two games against Penn State 
see IRISH I page 16 



of note...
Volleyball strong in tourney
• 
Irish power past opponents in Big Four 
Check inside for Saint Mary's 
... Tournament 
weekend results 
See page 15 
I''' 
''' 





