


~150 YEARS~ ~ 
r:r> 
@ 
~ 
~ 
> 
z t""' 
Tuesday, October 11, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 33 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
U.S. doubts Iraqi pullback 
By EILEEN ALT POWELL country. It was seven months sanctions were not lifted. Associated Press before a U.S.-led coalition oust­Clinton said the sanctions will ed the occupiers. be maintained until Iraq com­KUWAIT This time, Washington was plies with U.N. resolutions. 
Iraq declared an end to its determined to send a firm sig­"That is the answer to Iraq's menacing five-day buildup and nal -invade Kuwait and the sanctions problem: Full compli­said its troops were pulling United States will respond. ance, not reckless provoca­back from the Kuwait border Washington began amassing a tion," Clinton said. only hours after U.S. troops force of nearly 70,000 in the Earlier Monday, Kuwait's in­landed. region, 54,000 already assigned formation minister, Sheik Saud 
B u t plus 15,000 on standby. al-Sabah, said there was no evi­President The first contingent of 300 dence Iraq had begun pulling Clinton said U.S. soldiers arrived in Kuwait back any of the estimated Monday night City on Monday. 80,000 soldiers on the border. there had Hours later, Iraq's ambas­"We will believe it when we see been no sign sador to the United Nations, it," he said. of an Iraqi Nizar Hamdoon, said Iraqi Vesselin Kostov, spokesman pullback and forces would withdraw from for the 1,100-member U.N. ob­that he was the Kuwaiti border and "are al­server mission on the border, sending more ready on the move." He said told The Associated Press he than 350 U.S. they would be sent to a site could not confirm that Iraqi military air-north of Basra. troops were moving but said craft to the Persian Gulf. In Baghdad, Foreign Minister "the situation within the DMZ 
"We will not allow Saddam Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf remains calm." The 9-mile­Hussein to defy the will of the said troops would be deployed wide demilitarized zone was set United States and the interna­to "other locations in the rear" up after the 1991 Gulf War. tional community," Clinton said to finish military exercises. Pentagon officials have not in a nationally televised ad­He told the official Iraqi news said to what extent Iraq would dress. agency the withdrawal was or­have to pull back before the 
A senior Pentagon official, dered in response to appeals United States ended its buildup. speaking on condition of from "friends" and "in view of anonymity, said Clinton or­the fact that the troops' pres­U.S. forces continued to ar­dered B-52 bombers and F-15E ence might be used as a pretext rive Monday to confront the fighter jets to the Gulf. They to maintain sanctions." Iraqi force, which includes 
The crushing U.N. sanctions 20,000 Republican Guards. An were imposed after Iraq in­estimated 700 Iraqi tanks and
• see GRAPHIC, page 5 
vaded Kuwait in August 1990. other armored vehicles also 
Iraq has aggressively sought to were believed at the border. are to come from various Air have the sanctions eased, par­Force bases, including those in ticularly a 4-year-old oil em­In Kuwait City, some 300 men Germany and Italy. bargo that has devastated the from the 24th Infantry Division 
The tens of thousands of Iraqi economy. came aboard a white Lockheed
Mike Ruma/The Observer 

soldiers sent to the border had Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein 1011 jet from Fort Stewart, Ga., 
Sunny study days 
revived memories of 1990, may have conceived the the first major group of 
A freshman from Breen-Phillips makes use of the last days of the 
when Iraq swept aside Kuwait's buildup as a warning that he Western ground forces to arrive 
mild October weather to prepare for midterms outside. 
army and seized the oil-rich could still cause trouble if the in the region. 

Past holds key to Panama's future 
O'Hara shares views 
By KATIE MURPHY Associate News Editor 
on legal ethics today
An accurate evaluation of 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST according to what we think isPanama's political future rests News Writer the right and best solution," she on an understanding of the na­said. "There is always the pos­tion's immediate past, accord­Do you think that "ethics in sibility with any controversialing to Stanley Muschett, presi­law" is an oxymoron? If so, decision of being sued, but youdent of the Catholic University you're not alone, said Patricia can't look over your shoulder
of Panama and an '84 Notre 
O'Hara, a professor in the Law all the time." 
Dame graduate. 
-School and Vice President of O'Hara, who practiced corpo­"I believe that the future is 

Student rate law for six years before
something we can work on in Affairs coming to Notre Dame, saidthe present if we are able to "Lawyers that businesspersons are oftendraw some lessons from the 
have devel­hindered from easily making
past," said Muschett. 
oped a black the correct decision in ethicalManuel Noriega's years in eye in the matters because of the drive for power, the invasion of Panama public's profits or advancement.
in December of 1989, and the m i n d , " "In ethical dilemmas, a per­experiences of the Endara gov­O'Hara said. son's gut reaction is usually the ernment have shaped a number 
"They're right thing to do, " she said,
of the challenges facing 
down with "but then that person backs ofT
Panama's newly inaugurated used car when faced with pragmatic
president, Ernesto Perez Bal­salesmen in considerations."
ladares, a '67 and '69 Notre 
level of public trust." O'Hara also commented onDame graduate. 
However, lawyers can repair the O.J. Simpson murder trial,
Although Operation Just 
their reputation by rising above saying that the sophistication of Cause succeeded in removing what is expected of them, ac­Simpson's defense raises an in­Noriega from power, the ensu­cording to O'Hara. teresting issue. 
ing government of Guillermo "Lawyers should think of the "I'm not so troubled by O.J.
Endara was not able to fully 
code of professional mounting an aggressive de­
reconcile the Panamanian na­responsibility not in terms of a fense because we've built ourtion. Noriega's oppressive rule minimal responsibility," O'Hara system on the assumption ofhobbled the small nation politi­said last night in Keenan, "but innocence," she said. "If that'scally, economically, and so­as a much higher level of what the case, I don't have a prob­cially, which made it difficult is the right thing to do." lem with making the state
for Endara's government to 
The administration of Notre prove its position. It's theirfully unite the nation. 
Dame tries to follow this prin­burden."
"The Endara government was ciple when dealing with legal "However, it raises a questionhaunted by high expectations," matters such as disciplinary of allocation of legalsaid Muschett. 
cases and housing and security resources," she continued. "IUnlike the other candidates in was able to garner 33 percent Muschett. "Panama needed 
regulations, according to find it troublesome that O.J.
the May 8 presidential elec­of the electorate. badly to believe in someone or O'Hara. can develop possibly a bettertions, Perez Balladares empha­"From the very beginning he something." 
"To the very best of our abil­defense just because he hassized· this issue of national rec­started talking the language Perez Balladares' electoral ity, we try to make decisions more resources [than anotheronciliation in his campaign, and people wanted to hear," said see PANAMA I page4 murder defendant]." 
~NOTRE DAME·IN ~ 





page2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, October 11, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Don't blow off your vote 
Congress ended 
Cisdey Elliot 
another session this 
Viewpoint Copy
month, sending most 
Editor
politicians scampering back to their communi­ties for what should the campaign of their lives. For not only do the elections of 1994 hold individual seats in jeopardy but the power of the majority as well. This year Congress could very well change from the Democrat controlled power that we know so well, to a new Republican version. Party lead­ers do not plan to let this opportunity go by. Neither should we. 
Whether you are liberal or conservative, Democrat, Republican or neither, your vote will be needed come this November more than ever. Congress is fundamentally the most powerful branch of government over which regular citizens have direct influence, and both parties face an historic turning point there. Also, with issues like health care in its future, Congress, not the White House, is going to be the hot place on the hill in the coming year. Personally I can not wait to kick my incumbent's ineffective butt back to Nashville, but other people still seem to think that state and local elections are not worth their attention. 
Apathy replaces outrage for most when Election Tuesday comes around. Current events prove that politicians read the message loud and clear after the last elections: Americans only care about what Congress does until the polls come around. As soon as the prospect of asserting ourselves in the vot­ing booths presents itself, concern over bounced checks, fraud and general dishonesty evaporate. Apparently when it comes to Congress, people are satisfied with merely voicing judgment and then leaving the action to someone else. 
As a guest said on the McLaughlin Group a while ago, "Politicians are a special breed­we should stop worrying over trivial things like their personal integrity and let them con­centrate on passing legislature." When we do not work through the vote, that kind of bla­tant indifference gains credence and encour­ages congressmen to test public tolerance. Moreover, as long as we as a nation trivialize the importance of voting at all levels of our representative government, then it is our per­sonal integrity that is being put on the back burner not that of the politicians. 
You may not think that your candidate deserves the effort, but you do! We all do. The people of this country have fought hard for almost a century now to ensure our basic right to suffrage. We continue to fight abroad today, to secure democracy in other countries, but it is all for nothing if only a minority of cit­izens exercise their rights. 
We cannot depend on radio personalities and the news media to present our opinions to Congress, to lobby for the common man on
controversial bills, to change or uphold the system as we see it. Their influence depends on us-on our votes. America, stop blaming! Accept responsibility for your government and either be proud of it and defend it or work on it until you can. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News Gwendolyn Norgle Dave Ring  Lab Tech Eric Ruthling  
Sports Joe Villinski Dave Treacy  Production Whitney Sheets Belle Bautista  
Viewpoint Suzy Fry  Graphics Tom Roland  

The Observ<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights ate reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Firefighters battle blaze in Santa Barbara County 

LOMPOC, Calif. 
About 1,000 firefighters used bulldozers, helicopters and planes to dump water and retardant on a 2,400-acre wildfire Monday that had briefly threatened a residential area. 
The wildfire, which started Sunday in heavy brush and dead pinon pines about two miles north of Lompoc in Santa Barbara County, was about a third contained. 
The flames, which had come within a quarter mile of some homes and an oil plant, were fanned by hot, dry Santa Ana winds that blow over the mountains from the inland deserts every fall. 
Crews were aided by several bulldozers and eight heli­copters and planes dropping both water and retardant, as well as early morning humidity and cooler tempera­tures, said fire Capt. Ron Vasquez. 
Fire officials didn't know whether the blaze was delib­erately set. 
In San Diego County, a 2,000-acre fire near Otay, about 10 miles from the Mexican border, was 95 percent con­tained. The cause of that fire, which began Sunday, also was under investigation. No injuries were reported and only one building was damaged. 
Cheney undeclared candidate for '96 Name of Columbus Day changed 
WASHINGTON 
Dick Cheney often introduces himself as the low-key, anti-charisma option on today's political circuit. "I don't tend to pound on the podium and drool," says the former defense secretary. Yet no candidate is busier this campaign sea­son than this sober and so-far unde-· clared candidate for the 1996 Republican presidential nomination. With a resume highlighted by the Persian Gulf War, he is critiquing President Clinton's for­eign policy at GOP functions from coast to coast. The arguments may lose some strength if Clinton oversees a peaceful transition in Haiti and gets credit for staring down Iraq's Saddam Hussein in the latest round of regional tensions. And in fact, Cheney found himself on the defensive Monday with an NBC interviewer who sug­gested maybe Cheney and President Bush should have "disposed or· Saddam in 1991 and inflicted more dam­age on his troops. Still, Clinton's policies toward Haiti, Bosnia and other trouble spots have created fertile cam­paign territory for GOP presidential hopefuls. Cheney, a former congressman and White House chief of staff, has been among the most aggressive. He is charging the Clinton administration with risky cuts in defense expen­ditures and "fuzzy-headed thinking" about when and where U.S. troops should be deployed. 
Mother locks sons in dog cages 
SANTACRUZ 

In -this California seaside town where the offbeat is often the norm, Columbus Day wasn't. The name of the holiday was changed last month to Indigenous People's Day, forcing Italian-Americans to commemorate their explorer hero unofficially. What might be weird else­where becomes everyday in Santa Cruz, where civic pride includes reverence for its hippie-haven past and where computer freaks can order pizza via the Internet. Local Italian-Americans, whose fishermen forefathers came to the Monterey Bay by the thousands, muddled through without making any fuss over the liberal City Council's latest move. "It didn't surprise me because they've done so many odd things," said Skip Tara, head of Stagnaro Brothers Seafood Inc. "We try not to get excited when they go stupid like they do." Gilda's restau­rant on the wharf, owned by the Stagnaros, flew its Columbus Day flag Monday, as it has for the past 45 years. The resolution that changed the name of the holi­day noted that American Indians died from diseases brought by Europeans. Many criticize honoring Columbus, arguing his New World discovery was an inva­sion. The Columbus Day name change follows similar actions in Berkeley and the state of South Dakota. 
Life sentence for trooper's killer 

HALIFAX, Mass. 
A mother defended her practice of locking her sons in dog cages, saying she had to confine them so they wouldn't hurt themselves. Dianne Fabiano said her 4­and 6-year-old sons would often bang their heads against walls and furniture and fling themselves onto concrete. The boys and their 7 -year-old brother each had their own cages and the family called them playhouses, she said. The boys were placed in foster care after social workers reported fmding the 6-year-old locked in a cage last month, said Lorraine Carli, a spokeswoman for the Department of Social Services. Two other cages were found in the house, with blankets inside. "The only time when they were locked in was when they would get real­ly hyper and very mean and they'd be kicking and screaming and biting," Fabiano said Monday. "I don't want them to get hurt anymore, so I'd lock them in for five or 10 or 15 minutes." 
PENSACOLA, Fla. 

One of two brothers charged with killing a highway patrolman who set off a booby-trapped bomb in the trunk of a car pleaded no contest Monday. He was sen­tenced to life in prison. Under terms of his plea bargain, Patrick Howell must serve at least 25 years of Monday's sentence concurrently with another life term he received in a federal drug trafficking case. Howell, 23, struck the deal as a jury was being selected to try him and his 29­year-old-brother, Paul. His brother's trial is to continue as scheduled. Trooper James Fulford, who halted the car for speeding in February 1992, died instantly when he set off a bomb concealed in a microwave oven in the trunk. Prosecutors say Patrick Howell instructed his brother to build the bomb to kill two women they believed knew about a drug-related murder Howell was involved in. They say Paul Howell then paid a third per­son, Lester Watson, $200 to deliver the gift-wrapped bomb to the women. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL. WEATHER 


The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 11. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Atlanta 78 57 Baltimore 80 50 Boston 77 56 Chicago 57 35 Columbus 69 36  Dallas 72 Denver 72 Los Angeles 99 Miami 90 Minneapolis 54  48 40 71 74 33  New Orleans?? New York 74 Philadelphia 79 Phoenix 90 St. Louis 89  62 53 53 69 71  

------~-· --------·-------~~­
.----~-------~-~~~-·-~-.-~~ ----------------­
Tuesday, October 11, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page3 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
Population pact questioned
Gootblatt slated to return 
By EDWARD IMBUS G-7 coalition of the world's durally to make the language 
to Saint Mary's campus 
News Writer 
A non-governmental delegate to the UN Conference on Popu­lation Control castigated the condescending attitude of the US and other Western nations. 
During the international gathering, the "Contraceptive Imperialism" that emerged at its end was questioned, accord­ing to Sophie Aguirre, a profes­sor of economics at Catholic University. 
Aguirre lectured on her ob­servations during the Confer­ence last night in the Law School building. 
"The New Cultural Im­perialism," the title of her speech, should be of major con­cern to the international com­munity, she said, because the aftermath of the conference could have a significant impact on nations whose citizens do not agree with the pact's tenets. 
She said that the final docu­ment from the conference is filled with ambiguities. While it may use promising and attrac­tive words like "women's health issues," "family planning," and "developmental assistance," she said, such terms fall flat when nothing becomes of them. For example, the devel­opmental assistance promised was reportedly nothing more than funding for a series of latrines, according to Aguirre. 
Forty countries formally is­sued "reservations" about the final agreement, and over eighty countries, including the wealthiest nations, issued reservations "in part" because of the inclusion of what those nations called points which had not been agreed to by the dele­gates, Aguirre said. 
The points in contention were major, such as the inclusion of a passage sanctioning abortion and the only hazy encourage­ment of "natural families" of parents and children, which many countries did not agree with for a variety of reasons, according to last night's lectur­er 
Attending Latino American nations said that the mandates of the agreement infringed on the "fundamental sovereignty of nations," she stated, while Asian nations found them con­trary to their cultures. The Arab nations attending also criticized the fmal report as re­pugnant to the teachings of Is­lam. 
The Vatican also argued against the fmal report, yet the debate was not as nearly two­sided as the international media made it out to be, Aguirre said. 
The Vatican, rather than tak­ing its own position, joined the nations who were already tak­ing issue with the findings of the conference. 
During the conference, the international media reported that the Vatican and Islamic nations, who found common ground against abortion and contraception and advocating natural families, joined to maneuver politically and proce­more agreeable to their posi­tions. 
The daily sessions of the con­ference, according to Aguirre, were completely chaotic. The leadership of the conference, of which the United States was a part, made several rules which pushed through the agenda they created, although many nations had trouble with sev­eral parts of the agenda from the beginning. 
The leadership, Aguirre said, was constantly misinterpreting any compromise statements for those non-English speaking countries in attendence. 
Then, citing "environmental concerns" of wasting paper, the American ambassador and chairman ruled that all working copies of the draft would be in English only, despite reported objections of the difficulties of translating abstracts from English. 
The division of nations, Aguirre noted, seemed to be between the northern and southern countries, rather than among the more obvious reli­gious lines. She stated that the prime focus of international at­tention should be between the inequities of the two hemi­spheres. As an example, she noted that the G-7 nations use a grossly unbalanced three­fourths of all the world's resources. 
Further, once lauded popula­tion concerns and grave predic­tions have been contradicted since their inception. 

By BECKY MAYERNIK 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Student Ac­tivities Board (SAB) is prepar­ing for Foot Stompin' Thursday, the appearance of a noted rela­tionship expert, and a Halloween event. 
Foot Stompin' Thursday, which will be held October 13, will start at 7p.m. in Haggar Parlor. Heartland's Amorilla Star will be on hand to give students the chance to learn their favorite line dancing steps. 
Additionally, Jessica Zig­mond, chairperson for this event, announced "Dudes & Darlins" will be in Le Mans sell­ing western merchandise start­ing at 9:30 
"There will be many raffles, including a large care package, a gift certificate to Macri's, and gift certificates for CD's. Stu­dents just have to show up to enter in the drawings, so we're hoping lots of people come and have some fun," said Zigmond. 
Another event on the Saint Mary's campus will be the ap­pearance of relationship expert Ellen Gootblatt, who will be speaking about "meeting, dat­ing, relating, and mating." 
Ellen Gootblatt. who is an accomplished advice columnist, author. and host of her top rated talk show, will come to campus on Wednesday, November 2nd at 7:30 p.m. She will be speaking in Carroll Auditorium. 
"This is Ellen's third year ap­pearing at Saint Mary's, and she said that we are one of her favorite campuses," said event Chairperson Laura Boeckman. 
"She really gives a healthy outlook on relationships, so it should be a worthwhile event," said Boeckman. 
Finally, the Halloween event is still scheduled for Monday. October 31. It is sponsored by the SAB and the Residence Hall Association (RHA). The event will be held at Dalloways Coffee Shop from 7-10 p.m.. Among the events scheduled for the evening are pumpkin carving and painting, a Halloween storyteller, plenty of food, and grab bags for all attending. 
In other news, SAB Coordinator Audrey Comrie announced that Saint Mary's will be featured on Good Morning America in December. 
The student body will form the "150" in honor of the sesquicentennial. Comrie is on the committee for this activity, and she said that SAB will be in charge of the actual lining up of the' students in the formation. The South Bend ABC affiliate will film this on November 1 at 2:45p.m.. 
According to Comrie, the human "150" will air on December 8th, which is also the date of the closing liturgy for Saint Mary's College sesquicen­tennial year. 
t 

The FACULTY Series 
TIMELY TOPICS 
An opportunity to enter into conversation with colleagues on current ethical and religious issues. 
FAMILIES and End-of-Life Issues 
A conversation with Mark Poorman, C.S.C. aru1 Susan Steibe-Pasalich 
Assistant Professor of Theology Assistant Director,Counseling Center Director of the M.Div. Program Assistant Professor of Psychology 
Tuesday, October 11 
7:30 p.m. at The Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Faculty, Professional Staff & Graduate Students Welcome 
Sponsored by: The Department The Center for The Office of ofTheology Social Concerns Campus Ministry 
--Light Refreshments will follow -­
-
~ 

• Secmun BEAT 
Fri., Oct. 7 th 

8:01 a.m. A Morrissey Hall resident Sun., Oct. 9th reported a suspicious person in his 12:08 a.m. Security transported a dorm. Security searched the area but Grace Hall resident to St. Joseph could not locate the person. Medical Center for treatment of an arm 
11:48 a.m. A University employee injury. reported the theft of his decal from his 2:48 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident vehicle in the B02 parking lot. reported the theft of a ring from her 
room. Sat, Oct. 8th 3:51 p.m. A Grace Hall resident was 
2:07 a.m. Security arrested a South transported to St. Joseph Medical Center Bend resident for driving while intoxi­for treatment of a sports injury. cated. 5:27 p.m. Security transported a 
4:50 p.m. An off-campus student Zahm Hall resident to St. Joseph Medical reported that anonymous notes were Center for treatment of a sports injury. being left on his car. 
Interested in attending Law School? 
Join us for a presentation on 
"WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW BEFORE APPLYING TO LAWSCHOOLS!" 
OCTOBER 12th, 1994 at 7:00p.m. in the LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 
(Second Floor ofthe Notre Dame Law School) 
presented by: 
The Notre Dame Law Review 
and 
The Notre Dame Pre-Law Society 


page4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, October 11, 1994 
il BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Americans win Nobel Prize 
Haggar Renovation Survey distributed 
By EMILY RUFFNER 
News Writer 
Student Social Space was the key item of the week for the Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance (BOG). 
The Haggar Renovation Sur­vey will be distributed today and tomorrow during lunch and dinner hours for the students to voice their opinions, concerns, and ideas on how to make Haggar College Center a more attractive social space. 
BOG members have revised the survey several times to make the survey achieve the most efficient results. Publicity urges students to fill out the survey within the next two days. Off campus students were taken into consideration, considering they are a major portion of Haggar's Snack Bar's customers, according to Katherine Newland, off-Campus commissioner. 
BOG members are trying to find out what would get more students to use Haggar as a so­cial space. 
"We want to see how Haggar can be used more often, maybe adding a recreation atmosphere with ping-pong tables, and offering more favorable foods," said BOG member Emily Miller. 
Miller also mentioned target­ing certain rooms, such as the 
Panam.a 
continued from page 1 
success was due in part to his ability to distance himself from Noriega's politics, even though they are both members of the Revolutionary Democratic Party (PRO). He acknowledged the mistakes of the past, and called for a national healing. Now that he is in office, Perez Balladares' current challenges include cementing his relation­ship with the party and the leg­islature, rebuilding the econo­my, and dealing with the future transfer of the Panama Canal from the United States to Panama. 
"(Perez Balladares) is willing to work together with some of his former opposition leaders in forming his cabinet, but he is already facing some criticism in TV room, the parlor, and the mezzanine. RHA President Jen Cherubini contributed the idea that wiring cable is possible in the TV room, making the first floor even more appealing. 
Survey results hope to be gathered by the end of the week so Noha El-Ganzouri, Student Body President, will be able to present official data in BOG's proposal. 
Other BOG news: 
• 
Senior Board, recognizing the fact that the ND/SMC Senior Formal has been canceled, is currently planning a Saint Mary's Senior Formal. 

• 
Founders' Week is off to a great start with the Presenta­tion of a Sesquicentennial Me­mento to the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Two Convents have al­ready received their posters and sincerely enjoyed them, according to Adaline Cashore. assistant director of Alumnae Relations. 


"St. Mary's would not be #1 without the sacrifices, labor, and love of the sisters these 150 years," Cashore said. 
Today there will be an Open House in Riedinger Alumnae House from 2-4 p.m., and Wednesday, Bertrand Hall will host a display of pictures and artifacts showing the history of the sisters, also from 2-4 p.m. 
how he has put n together. said Muschett. 
Some PRO party members think that cabinet posts and committee positions should be assigned along stricter party lines. Although Perez Bal­ladares' party holds 32 of the 72 seats in the Panamanian congress, these sentiments cre­ate a delicate political situation. 
A key aspect of Panama's fu­ture rests on its economic state, according to Muschett. The so­lutions to the nation's unem­ployment, poverty, and debt are not simplistic, but Perez Balladares has already estab­lished a feeling of connection with both Panama's poor and rich. Although the Endara gov­ernment was perceived as a "government for the rich and by the rich," Perez Balladares has attempted to include the concerns of the lower classes in his policy proposals. 

NOBEL 
Medicine • 1994 
Winners since 1984 
••<•• • 
:::::'·=·· .••: 
1fi1 Erwin Neher & Bert Sakmann, 
> , Ge~}'i!!:::: 
1890 Joseph E.Murry & 
· e. 00nna11 Thomas, United StatE!$ 
:(N~p·. ·' .,~.,,. 
1989 J, Michael Bishop & 
· · · Harold E, Varmus, ' United States 
1988 Sir James W. Black,Britain & Gertrude Elion & George H. Hitchings,United States 
-~ 
1987 Susumu Tonegawa, Japan 
1986 Stanley Cohen,UnitedStates & 
Rita Levi-Montalcini, Italy 
1985 Michael S. Brown & 
· Joseph L. Goldstein, United States 
1984 Niels Kal Jeme & George Koehler,Switzerland & Cesar Milstein, United StatiM~ 
AP 

.TUNIO ~= F~U ~O;~~I_e 
•H/'t1eke't 
On sale at LaFortune Information Desk Last chance to buy tickets is noon on Friday 
:O:ra,~g; i.s F:ri_d.a,y :nig;h't a,'t 
~:i.dii.:i.g;h~ ~~..·~ Take Kaplan and get your highest score! 
-

Kaplan gives you: 
• 
Dynamic teachers • Actual released tests 

• 
Computer analyzed testing • And now, test prep software 


Call 1-800-KAP·TEST 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question 
By THOMAS GINSBERG 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden 
Two Americans won the Nobel Prize in medicine today for discovering an internal "switchboard" in cells that has helped scientists understand such killer diseases as diabetes and cholera. 
Alfred Gilman and Martin Rodbell, who will split the $930,000 prize, were the first to identify proteins called G­proteins and the role they play in letting cells react to signals from other cells, said a state­ment from the Nobel Assembly at the Karolinska Institute. 
"It is like a key component in a telephone switchboard," said Dr. Berti! Fredholm, a pro­fessor of pharmacology at the Karolinska Institute. Their dis­covery was "a complete sur­prise and it solved a number of problems," he said. 
Although their research hasn't produced any treatments for the diseases, the institute predicted ultimately it will. 
Gilman, 53, works in the department of pharmacology at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. 
''I'm awestruck. I'm more excited than I've ever been," Gilman said today. 
Rodbell, 68, is a scientist emeritus at the National Insti­tute of Environmental Health Sciences in North Carolina. He retired May 31. 
According to the statement, the scientists made a "para­mount" discovery that helped scientists understand the way cells handle information they receive from each other. 
The scientists found once a cell has received chemical sig­nals by means of surface pro­teins called receptors, G-pro­teins transmit and modify these signals within a cell to produce the cell's response. 
Problems with G-proteins ­too many or too few of them ­can lead to disease. The name G-protein was chosen because it "binds" guanosine triphos­phate. or GTP. 
In some common diseases such as diabetes and alco­holism, scientists have found some symptoms may be due to bad signaling within the cell through G-proteins. Mutated and overactive G-proteins are found in some cancerous tumors, the statement said. 
In cholera, toxin from cholera bacteria keeps one G­protein switched on like a stuck green light. That prevents salt and water from being absorbed from the intestines, which can lead to dehydration and death. 
The scientists made the dis­covery while working sepa­rately from the 1960s to the mid-1980s. Rodbell and his team was working at the U.S. National Institutes of Health at the time, while Gilman was working at the University of Virginia at Charlottesville. 
The medicine prize is awarded to scientists whose work is thought to have most benefited humankind. Like the other Nobel science awards, it usually honors basic research. 
In recent decades, the prize usually has been shared by more than one scientist, a reflection of the growing inter­dependence and competition among researchers around the globe. 
Most of the medicine prize winners -now 71 out of 157 -have been American. Only 19 other nations can claim a Nobel medicine prize winner. 

NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S SENIORS: 
Considering a post,graduate service program? 
Interested in finding out what a year or two 
of service is like, and opportunities 
after the program? 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES will be holding informational meetings on post,graduate volunteer programs at the Center for Social Concerns: 
Wednesday, Oct. 12, 4:30p.m.: Chile Sites Tuesday, Oct. 18, 4:30p.m.: Domestic Program Sites 
Placements are available in California, Arizona, Massachusetts, Colorado, and Oregon, as well as in Chile. For more information or an appointment to discuss the program in depth, call the Associates office, 631 ,8016, or the CSC, 631,5293. Applications and information packets are now available . 
.. HOLY CROSS 
.. ASSOCIATES 
Tuesday, October 11, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS pageS 
Coalition reacts to Hussein's new movements 

U.S. Air Force •40 F-16s, F-111 long-range bombers and EF-111A electronic jammers 

AWACs 
•6 tankers •2AWACs 


Ell 
French Air Force British Royal Air 
•8 Mirage F-1 fighters Force 
8 Jaguar strike jets 2 VC-1 0 tankers 
A-1 0 Warthog 

-
British Tornado 

French Mirage 
~ 
U.S. Navy 


•Cruiser Leyte Gulf •Destroyer Hewitt
U.S. Air Force 
•Frigates Davis, Reid and Hall At Khamis Mushayt 
(North Arabian Sea) •12 F-117A Stealth 
•Tripoli Amphibious Ready Group: Tripoli,
F-117A Stealth 

Cleveland, Fort McHenry and Rushmorefighter-bombers
lighter-bomber 

•Auxiliary ships Mars, Pecos, Poxhatan and McDonnell
•2 E-3 AWACs airborne 
warning planes 


At Riyadh 
IIB!I

•12 KC-135 and KC-10 
British Royal Navy
tankers 

•2 warshipsAt Taif 
•1 Type-42 destroyer HMS Liverpool
AWACs 

•1 Broadsword-class frigate HMS Cornwall
•One 
or two U-2 spy planes 


•1 supply ship, the Brambleleaf
•2 
J-Stars radar aircraft 

At Dhahran, Saudi Arabia 
~ 
U.S. Air Force 
•20 
F-16 Falcon fighters 

•20 
F-15E Strike Eagle ground attack jets •20 F-15C fighters •12 A-10 Warthog tank-killers 

•20 
F-4G Wild Weasel air defense suppression jets •6 EF-111 electronic jamming aircraft 


Ell 
British Royal Air Force 
•A squadron of GR-1A low-level reconnaissance Tornados and GR-1 fighter-bombers •2 VC-10 tankers 
1£11 
French Air Force •1 0 top-line Mirage 2000 fighters 
•KC-135 tankers 
United States, Britain, and France commit 
By NESHA STARCEVIC 
Associated Press 
The international coalition that worked together to fight Iraq in 1991 has yet to unite again in the face of Saddam Hussein's military buildup on the border with Kuwait. 
Only the United States, Britain and France had deployed troops by Monday, with Australia and Egypt saying they would join if necessary. Other Arab nations had not made any public announce­ments about joining an interna­tional force to withstand Iraq a second time. 
After Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990, it took President George Bush months to build the coali­tion of dozens of countries to set up forces in the region. 
One big difference from the Gulf War was the stand report­edly taken by King Hussein of Jordan, isolated for siding with Saddam in 1991. 
The king was quoted Monday by Kuwait's al-Siyassah daily as saying: "We have advised Iraq not to repeat the mistake of 1990. We will oppose any use of force by any Arab against another. We are on the side of the target of aggression." 
Russia and China, members of the U.N. Security Council with veto power over military action, urged restraint and a peaceful solution to the crisis. 
"As we see it, it is still possi­ble to settle the problem by diplomatic and political means," said Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev, ac­cording to the ITAR-Tass news agency. 
Australian Prime Minister Paul Keating said Monday that his country, which provided several warships for the Gulf War coalition, would favorably consider any U.S. request for similar help this time. 
"I think that the great pity was that we never went after Saddam Hussein in the first place," he said. "When we had him beaten, we should have finished him off." 
An Egyptian Defense Ministry official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Egypt's armed forces were ready to participate in any international coalition force. Egypt also was a member of the U.S.-led coali­tion. 
France was sending the frigate Georges-Leyguesa to the Gulf waters to join U.S. and British warships already dis­patched there, the French Foreign Ministry said Monday. 
A British frigate was already patrolling off Kuwait City and Britain has had six Tornado fighters based in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, since the Gulf War. 
Britain decided Monday to send a battalion of marine com­mandos, a second Royal Navy vessel and six more fighter­bombers to the Gulf unless Iraq immediately withdraw its troops. 
"We have assured our friends and partners in the Gulf of our readiness to help them. Iraq should draw the appropriate conclusions," the office of Prime Minister John Major said. 
Major said advance elements of the British army's elite "spearhead battalion," about 800 members of the Royal Marines, would depart within 24 hours, "unless by then we have evidence that Iraq is re­versing its recent deployment." 
Kuwait signed defense pacts with the United States, Britain, Russia and France after the 1990 invasion by Iraq, which triggered the Gulf War in which the U.S.-led coalition defeated Saddam's forces. 
The United Nations also im­posed economic sanctions on Iraq, which Saddam wants lift­ed. 
Germany, in the name of the European Community, urged Iraq to pull back. 
If Iraq doesn't comply, "the reaction has to be like it was before," Foreign Minister Klaus 
J.l said. 
He declined to say whether German troops would partici­pate in a new coalition. 

•48 
HOUR EXPERIENCE IN AN INNER CITY of your choice •DURING JANUARY 3rd-10th 

•THE 
DATES ARE CHOSEN BY YOUR SITE HOST 

•SEE 
SOUP KITCHENS, SHEL TEAS, WELFARE AGENCIES, ETC. 

•TALK 
TO THE HOMELESS 


•SEE 
PEOPLE WHO ARE TRYING TO MAKE LIFE BETTER FOR THE DISADVANTAGED 


*REGISTRATION I:)EAOLIN~ >···•·.. ;...... ····•."t•\ 
:> ..••.•.*ORI~~AliO~:··~PVEMBE. 
··..·. · ~FOI.l,;;OW UP<MitTINGJA • . . SUNDJ%:~·t:30.;; 10/ 
Come to one of the Information nights to find out what this is all about: 
-October 11th at 6 -7 p.m. Center for Social Concerns -October 19'h at 6:30 -7 p.m. Center for Social Concerns -November 3 at 6:30 -7 p.m. Center for Social Concerns -October 20'h at 6:30 -7 p.m. Haggar Lounge -SMC 
Registration are available at the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry -Notre Dame Campus Ministry, Multicultural Office and Justice Education Office -Saint Mary's 


---~ ~~~--~ -~~-·~~ 
page6 Tuesday, October 11, 1994 

Javier 
Nebraska 

atso 

-westernMi~higan 
Illinois-Chicago 


-Georgia Teub -Purdue­
-Loyola Marymount Riue ­
~ 


7:30 p.m • Joyce Center Main Arena 
ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH STUDENT ID 
.-.J:;;;.s..•~·•"-•·"-•-•.:.o.,;.~£W·~•-•·~-L..td-lAJt.J ....,,..,..,_._~w•---..-.w~..-.--.-..--.-_....-.,L, ' ----~----·-------· -------------·----------·--· ---· · · ­
Tuesday, October 11, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page? 
Cedras resigns, will leave Haiti One leader is dead, 
By DAVID BEARD smile as she heard the verbal day night, President Clinton Associated Press abuse from the crowd. said Cedras and Biamby would 
Jouret's fate unknown
As a sort of final indignity, leave Haiti "shortly." 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti the camouflage-uniformed 
Raoul Cedras kept the people American occupying troops had cowed for three years with his to protect Cedras, firing warn­terror campaign. On Monday, ing shots when a rock-thrower Haiti's masses rose up and shattered the windshield of his drowned him out. departing Toyota Land Cruiser. 
The once-omnipotent Cedras Haitians scrambled to pick up seemed small in the entrance­shards of the broken wind­way of the clapboard army shield as souvenirs. headquarters as he announced "I have chosen to leave the he was resigning as military country to protect you, so that leader and quitting the country my presence will not be a pre­for its own good. text for unjustified acts," Ce­
Cedras was dwarfed by crim­dras told the crowd. son-bereted U.S. military com­As a result of Lt. Gen. Cedras' mander Hugh Shelton, whose resignation, the fmal condition 19,500 soldiers played a large has been met by the Haitian role in finally driving out the military leadership to comply Haitian coup leader. with the terms of the agree­
The sound of 5,000 joyful ment former President Carter people buried the tubas and worked out only hours before a trombones of Cedras' military U.S. invasion was to begin. band playing the national an­Cedras is gone; so.too is Brig. them with an impromptu ver­Gen. Philippe Biamby, who re­sion of "Auld Lang Syne." signed Saturday. Port-au­
Then Cedras' voice, which Prince police chief Michel Fran­once dominated state media, cois escaped in the dark last faded amid an under amplified week to the neighboring Do­sound system and the crowd's minican Republic. shouts of "Hoodlum!" and Cedras gave no time or venue "Thiefl" for his exile, but U.S. Embassy 
Even his wife, Yannick, wear­spokesman Stanley Schrager ing designer eyeglasses and a · listed Argentina, Panama, green-and-white polka dot Spain and Venezuela as possi­dress, wasn't paying attention ble refuges. Schrager did not during her husband's speech, rule out the United States. instead trying to maintain a In a televised address Mon-

Venezuelan President Rafael Caldera on Monday rejected asylum for Cedras, his family and some colleagues. Former President Carter had 'asked Caldera to consider it, Venezuela's Foreign Ministry said. 
Anticipating Cedras' depar­ture, the crowd in Port-au­Prince continually shouted the name of Jean-Bertrand Aris­tide, the man Cedras overthrew in September 1991. One man shimmied up a palm tree before Cedras, waving an American flag with a photo of Aristide in its center. 
Clinton confirmed that Aris­tide, Haiti's first freely elected president, will end his own ex­ile and return home Saturday. 
Since U.S. troops arrived in Haiti three weeks ago, "the level of violence is down, the parliament is back, refugees are returning ... and now the military leaders are leaving," Clinton said. "But I also want to caution again, the job in Haiti remains difficult and danger­ous. We still have a lot of work ahead of us." 
Cedras, who previously vowed not to flee, said he de­cided to "sacrifice" himself to save Haiti. 
ANNOUNCIXG TWO NEW CREF ACCOUNTS 

YOU'RE LOOKING AT TWO COMPLETELY OPPOSITE, FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT WAYS TO INVEST IN STOCKS. 
WE RECOMMEND BOTH. 
Introducing the CREF Growth Account and the CREF Equity Index Account. 
W
hether you want a fund that selects specific stocks or one that covers the market, we're on the same page. Our new CREF Growth and CREF Equity Index Accounts use two distinct strategies for investing in the stock mar­ket, but both aim to provide what every smart investor looks for: long-term growth that outpaces inflation~ 
The CREF Growth Account searches for individual companies that are poised for superior growth. In contrast, the Equity Index Account looks for more diversification, with a portfolio encom­
·~ passing almost the entire range of U.S. 
•
. stock investments. It will invest in stocks 
... 
..... 
. ~. 
~ 
~ 
Ensuring the future ~ ~ for those who shape it.511
. 
~ 
~ 

in the Russell 3000•,** a broad index of 
U.S. stocks. 

Like our CREF Stock Account, which combines'active, indexed, and foreign investing, and our Global Equities Account, which actively seeks opportuni­ties worldwide, the new funds are managed by experienced investment professionals. They're the same experts who have helped make TIAA-CREF the largest pension system in the U.S., managing over $130 billion in assets. 
To lind out more about our new stock funds, and building your portfolio with TIAA-CREF. just calll800-842-2776. And take your pick. 
By CHRISTIAN HUMBERT Associated Press 
LAUSANNE, Switzerland 
Joseph di Mambro, a mas­termind of the doomsday cult at the center of last week's death of 53 people, died with his fol­lowers, Swiss police said today. 
A statement from Valais state police said di Mambro was among 25 people whose bodies were found last week among the rubble of fires that de­stroyed three chalets in the Alpine village of Granges-Sur­Salvan. 
The fate of the cult's other leader, Luc Jouret, remained a mystery. Swiss experts began autopsies today to find out if Jouret was among the dead. 
Police last week issued an ar­rest warrant on charges of pre­meditated murder and sus­picion of arson against di Mam­bro, a 70-year-old French­Canadian, and Jouret, a Belgian believed to be the charismatic force behind the cult. 
The identification of di Mam­bro's body followed the arrival of Canadian police investigators with his dental records. Many of the dead were burned be­yond recognition. 
Another 23 people died in a farmhouse in the western Swiss village of Cheiry. Autopsies on those bodies indicated many were murdered, some with multiple bullet holes in the head. 
Five other bodies were found in a charred chalet the cult l~aders owned north of Mon­treal. Canadian police said three were murdered. 
The investigation continued in Canada, Australia, and Europe. There have been unconfirmed reports that cult leaders were involved in a huge arms trafficking and money laundering operation. 
One of Switzerland's biggest banks froze an undisclosed number of accounts and launched an internal inquiry. Newspapers have reported cult links to a manager at the Swiss Bank Corp. 
The Australian Associated Press reported that di Mambro and Jouret regularly visited Australia. The agency said di Mambro lived at the Gold Coast, a beach resort in Queensland state, between November 1993 and last April. The AAP said immigration records showed that Jouret vis­ited Australia five times since 1989. 
"He was very calm and very cool. He had a charisma about him," said Peter Bruinhout, a Gold Coast businessman who said he rented several cars to Jouret. 
"The last words he said to me...was that he loved the country and he'd be back in about two months," Bruinhout told Australia's Channel Nine television network. 
The network said Jouret and four "French" friends rented an apartment in Surfers Par­adise, the major tourist area of the Gold Coast. 
"He spent a lot of time up in his unit (apartment)," said resi­dent Neville Anderson. "I did ask him what he was doing here for such a long time. He said he was writing a book." 
The AAP said police were also investigating claims made in a suicide note of one of the dead Swiss cult members that other cult members died in Sydney last Jan. 6. 

It also cited unconfirmed re­ports that di Mambro and 12 other cult members tried to go to Ayers Rock on Aug. 13, 1993, for a Black Friday night ritual but were refused permis­sion by park rangers. The site, in central Australia's remote Outback region, is considered sacred by the country's aborig­inal people. • 
The French connection first surfaced Saturday when police uncovered an intricate incendi­ary device at an empty villa the cult used in southern France. 
The device, which could have been triggered by a coded tele­phone call, was like the bombs that set off the fires last week in Switzerland and Canada. 
The Swiss Bank Corp. would not comment today on reports that a manager at one of the Geneva branches had been in­volved with the cult and had acted as an agent in the pur­chase of the Cheiry farmhouse. The amount of money in the accounts frozen Friday was not disclosed. 
An official of the Royal Bank of Canada said the bank tipped off Canadian police in July about suspicious activity in an Ottawa account of a cult mem­ber. 
Bank spokesman David Moorcroft said he was prohib­ited by law from releasing the account-holder's name, but added that the movement of hundreds of thousands of dol­lars without evidence of legiti­mate sources for that income could trigger such a report. 


SPONSORED BY: HEWm ASSOCIATES, ARTHUR ANDERSEN, ANDERSENCONSULTING;-AND LEOBURNETTCOMPANY, INC. 
FREE FOR MINORITY JUNIORS AND SENIORS! Friday, January 27, 1995 The Chicago Marriott Downtown 
PARTIAL LIST OF ATTENDING EMPLOYERS! 
AndersenConsulting  Ernst & Young  Northern Illinois Gas  
Arthur Andersen & Co.  Goldman Sachs & Co.  Prudential Securities  
Boston Consulting Group  Harris Bancorp  SmithKiinc Beecham  
Capital Group  Hewitt Associates  Swiss Bank  
Chubb Group ofInsurance Co's  LaSalle Partners  Towers Perrin  
CNA Insurance Companies  Leo Burnett Co., Inc.  University ofChicago  
Citibank  Merril Lynch  WWGraingcr  

PLUS MANY MORE!!! 
To Register Please Send Your Updated Resume By Nov. 1 To: (write your top 3 industry preferences on the back ofyour resume) 
Crimson & Brown Associates 1770 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 332, Cambridge, MA 02140 TEL (617) 868-0181 FAX (617) 868-0187 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, October 11, 1994 
Palestinians kill two, injure others Bishop proposes 
By GWEN ACKERMAN 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

The militant Islamic group Hamas claimed responsibility today for a terror attack in which two Arabs armed with assault rifles and hand grenades opened fire on a street crowded with outdoor cafes, killing two people and wounding 13 before being cut down. 
The Palestinian attackers killed an off-duty Israeli woman soldier and a Palestinian by­stander. One of the wounded was a U.S. diplomat, identified by the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv as Scott Dobberstein, 33, of Gary, Minn. Dobberstein was hit by grenade fragments. 
Police and private citizens with handguns returned fire and the two assailants, who wore red bandannas and car­ried AK-47 Kalashnikov rifles, fell dead in the stone-paved Yoel Solomon Street shortly before midnight. 
U.S. Secretary of State War­mentalist" group Hamas said the "It's our worst nightmare ren Christopher called on PLO attack came in revenge for the come true," said Keith leader Yasser Arafat to reaf­Oct. 8, 1990, shooting of 17 Sprague, an immigrant from firm his commitment to the Palestinians by Israeli police New York City, who spoke to a peace process by strongly during clashes outside reporter in the Amigos Mexican denouncing the attack and act­Jerusalem's AI Aqsa Mosque. restaurant littered with broken ing "as firmly as he can against "Our bold military operations glass and scores of shell cas­that kind of incident." will not cease as long as there ings. 
"I think Chairman Arafat is an Israeli soldier left on our Sprague, a security guard should respond and condemn it occupied land," the Hamas who was armed with a 9mm strongly," Christopher said. leaflet said. pistol, said he herded the cus­
• "That is part of his commit­The leaflet identified the as­tomers to the roof shortly be­ment." sailants as Hassan Abbas from fore the gunmen holed up in­
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, the Gaza Strip and Issam side the restaurant. "They left who has threatened to slow the Muhana Ismail Jawhari from the restaurant and were expansion of autonomy for Egypt. killed," he said. Palestinians unless Arafat reins Israel radio said Jawhari was Police spokesman Avi Zelba in the militants, said "we will a PLO policeman who arrived said the Palestinian gunmen fight Hamas with all our might from Egypt recently. PLO police fired hundreds of bullets in the and will not let them harm the denied Jawhari was a police­attack. Police also said they peace process." man, and Hamas officials said found seven grenades at the · 
Deloitte & Management
ToucheLLP 
Consulting
'-~ 

Recruiting Presentation 
Representatives from Deloitte & Touche's National Management Consulting Practice will be on campus to discuss career opportunities in con-­sulting. All interested undergraduate students are encouraged to attend. 

Faisal Husseini, the PLO's spokesman on Jerusalem af­fairs, condemned the killings on Israel radio, saying the PLO was against the "killing of civil­ians, whether Israelis or Palestinians." 
He called for expansion of Palestine Liberation Organiza­tion authority in the West Bank as a way to stop attacks and contended the PLO was doing all it could to prevent violence. "We cannot have full security when we do not have full con­trol," he told The Associated Press. 
Angry Israelis gathered at the shooting site today as shop­keepers and cafe owners swept up glass and children gathered around a tree trunk to dig out a bullet. Some cafes reopened and served breakfast. 
Youths shouted slogans against Rabin for making peace with the Palestinians. "Rabin go home," shouted a group of about 20 teen-agers. 
In a leaflet sent to news agen­cies today, the Muslim funda­Jawhari, 24, was an Egyptian national who came to Gaza on a tourist visa in July and fre­quented the Sheik Radwan mosque, a center of Islamic militants. 
Abbas, who spent two years in jail for being a Hamas ac­tivist, was the former driver of Imad Aql, a Hamas leader killed by Israeli soldiers last year, Palestinian and Israeli sources said. 
The attack Sunday coincided with the arrival of Christopher, who was in the King David Ho­tel a few blocks away at the time of the shootings. A secu­rity alert was ordered and the hotel was sealed off for the rest of the night and into the morn­ing, snarling Jerusalem traffic at rush hour. 
The gunmen opened fire at 
11:30 p.m. Sunday in a crowd­ed downtown pedestrian mall lined with restaurants. Witnesses said fewer people than usual were sitting outside because it had rained earlier in the evening. 

wo01en cardinals 
By BRIAN MURPHY 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 
Although women remain barred from ·the priesthood, they should participate in the highest levels of the Vatican, including the group that selects the pope, an African bishop proposed Monday. 
The appeal by Monsignor Ernest Kombo of Owando, Congo -made before Pope John Paul II and hundreds of clergymen from around the world -capped a series of in­creasingly direct demands for a greater role in church affairs for nuns and women religious workers. 
The future of women in all aspects of the Roman Catholic Church has emerged as one the principal debates at a month long bishops' synod, called to discuss possible changes in the structure and outlook of reli­gious orders and lay groups. 
The gathering, which ends Oct. 29, has begun with hun­dreds of statements from clergy members. 
Kombo's comments have so far proved the most radical. 
"Women must be able to rise to the highest positions in the establishment of the church, they should also be nominated as lay cardinals," said Kombo. 
Kombo noted that church rules do not require cardinals be priests or clergy members, although for centuries nearly every cardinal previously has been a bishop or other high­ranking cleric. Kombo sug­gested a special lay cardinal position for women. 
The main duty of cardinals is to elect the pope. The pope has sole authority to select cardi­nals, but any change appeared highly unlikely. 




~--~..------------~------~~~--.---~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, October 11, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
New. Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spans Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scorr Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Ediror ............... Elizabeth Regan Conrroller ..................................... Krisren Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Pharo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-chief 631-4542 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Sports 631-4543 News/Photo 631-5323 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 General Information 631-7471 
• lETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Glee Club members apologize 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to take this op­portunity to respond to the com­ments made by Darcy Yaley in her lett.er to the editor this past Friday. If remarks made by cer­tain members of the Glee Club offended any members of the Asian American Association or anyone else in South Dining Hall, we apologize. If such comments were made, they were made by (an) individual(s) who happen to be in the Glee Club. These remarks do not represent the opinion of the Glee Club nor does the group condone the beliefs implied by these statements. 
The members of the Glee Club serve as official ambassadors for the University, performing on 
There smore to Cleveland than column suggests 
Mike O'Hara's Inside Column "BC's not the only reason to hit the road," (The Observer, October 5, 1994) displayed a highly pol­ished ignorance of the beauty of the city of Cleveland, Ohio. O'Hara writes of his road trips, "The first year I got to see Cleveland, Ohio (of all places) ... Cleveland doesn't have much to offer ... " 
How refreshingly original that O'Hara uses an age-old media cliche to offend the hundreds of Greater Clevelanders who attend Notre Dame. Therefore, I suggest that he, or anyone for that matter, who wants to denigrate my city with such an inane comment might actually want to spend more than "five hours" there. Maybe if you opened your eyes, you would see: 
• 
a big city without big city prob· 

• 
DOONESBURY 


BY lHE UIAY, MICHAEL -ROY, /A/HAT'S THE /JEAL ON 7H/3 {]<JM/3 BIL-L rI HEAR. Ya.J 
V(JJ[3f) f3(JTH FOR ITANI? 
AGAINST IT.' I 

Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Office Manager 631-7471 Fax 631-6927 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
UH~HUH. 
5H&

YOU 5££, '.iiP-JOHN, I'M 
aJHO THOUGHT 
HUfflJ

INTO JNCWSIVENESS/ 
THATON&UP­
aJ!THTHE

IT"7 PAJ<T OF MYUR3­
MIN15TER. GfiT-
FINAL.

FORL&.t 1 /A/ANT TO BEA 
""'·,...--'"-A-UF/3 ~ 
/AIORPING, PE!OPt&! '\ , Y&5. -,-~' 
5l3NATOI<. FOR. ALL TH/3 
J,, 

-------------,--.---,--,--,--.. 
roH'T WORRY... I FINI~H ST~t{GAAD 'I'M G<X>D ' INlliE MUD. 

campus, throughout the United States, and around the world. We take the positive representation of the University as a serious responsibility. Hopefully, this 
'These remarks do not 
represent the opinion of the GleeCiub nor does the group condone the beliefs implied by these statements.' 

unfortunate incident will not serve as the sole basis of judg­ment of the Notre Dame Glee Club as an organization. 
The Glee Club is comprised of 56 individuals from a variety of backgrounds who are brought together by a common love for music. It would be a tragedy for the character and integrity of the group's members to be ques­tioned as the result of the actions of an isolated few. It is our sin­cere hope that others at the University of Notre Dame will be able to look beyond the incident and come to know the individual members of the Glee Club and the overall commitment to excellence we strive to maintain as an orga­nization. 
JOEY COLEMAN JOE DZIEDZIC Glee Club Co-Presidents 

lems, such as heavy traffic, exten­sive gang problems, excess pollu­tion, or outrageous cost of living; 
• 
the MetroParks, one of the most extensive and breathtaking city park programs in the country; 

• 
the Cavs, the Browns, the Indians, the Crunch; 

• 
a nationally ranked football pro­gram at St. Ignatius High School; 

• 
the best symphony orchestra in the entire world (How do you like that, folks!), twenty-three univer­sities and colleges, one of the only 


"Sea Worlds" in the country, the Rock 'n Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, and one of the largest Irish populations in the country. 
This is just a partial list of all that was missed by the columnist. If anyone would like a tour some­time, just let me know. But I promise you one thing: you'll need more than five hours. 
BRIAN SEILER Junior Fisher Hall 

-----:----:-~---~~~---·---------...... 
page 10 Tuesday, October 11, 1994 
VIEWPOINT 
• lETTERS TO THE EomJR 
Humanity shorted justice 
Du Lac confuses sex, violence 
on information highway 
Dear Editor: 

• liFE AFTER fiNAlS 
Wake Up the Echoes, but only for a price 
Can anyone tell me precisely when college sports Ron about my being up to my eyebrows in student ..----------....---....-..-----. became a major industry? loan debt, nor did I laugh in his face. I did, however, Yes, I know that people have been making money explain that I would call him back. 
off the old alma mater for a long time, and that Knute No, I do not plan to buy ownership in this club. If I Rockne made a fortune on endorsement deals. I real-ever feel that I need to spend $70,000 to show my ize that I am merely knocking at a very well fortified love for this University, I will start a scholarship fund windmill. or something. 
However, this one caught even me by surprise. Ron did make one comment that intrigued me. He 
A few weeks ago, I (along with many other alumni, I said that this club will be tailored to the needs of all suspect) got a brochure from the Varsity Clubs of alumni.­America offering me a unique way to cheer, cheer for Wait a second. I need to buy a condo in Mishawaka, old Notre Dame. complete with health club and sports lounge, if I want 
It seems that a fellow alumnus ================ to come to Notre Dame? I think 
(a Law School grad, at that) got someone might have stared at the idea to construct a time-that golden dome a little too in-share condominium in tently.
Pau1 
Mishawaka for one reason: so Not all of us run our own that alumni can have a place to Fortune 500 companies, nor are stay close to the campus. we in charge of small Third
Pearson 
Officially, it is called an 'all-World countries. Yet we love the suite interval ownership hotel,-Irish as much as anyone else. but the words time share' are College sports, of course, exploding in my head. The club makes a lot of money for a lot of is building a 60-suite facility that people, and this is not necessarily seems like a combination of the Morris Inn and Club a bad thing, especially if it helps deserving kids get an Med. education. However, when it comes to this point, it 
Scheduled to open for business next fall, each suite might be time to reconsider this whole ritual. I mean, comes with master bedroom, living room, kitchenette for me, half the fun of returning involves cheap and oversized bathrooms. Some of them even will accommodations with local friends. In a way, it helps have private balconies. Plus, the facility will have a you remember the good old days even better when Health Club, an entertainment center and a sports you are back in the environment of a college student. lounge (naturally). The sights. The sounds. The smell of ethanol in the 
In other words, we're not talking about Motel Six. morning ... 
I called the toll-free number on the mailing and If you want a time-share resort, go to Miami Beach. talked to Ron in the Marketing Department, a very Notre Dame was never meant to go condo. charming and eloquent man. Of course, this phenomenon is not unique to our lit-
He explained to me that for the right price, I could tle old campus. According to my friend Ron, Varsity receive undivided ownership interest in the property, Clubs of America is planning to build similar commu­and would always be able to get a reservation when-nities near 14 other colleges, including Syracuse, ever I feel like coming back to campus. Not just for Michigan, Iowa and Nebraska. football weekends, but for weeklong vacations or spe-Would the one in Lincoln be called club Big Red? cial weekends like commencement. 
The price range: $10,000 to $70,000. Almost as Paul Pearson '93 is a former news writer for The
Observer. He currently works as a writer/editor for a
much as the Notre Dame education that made you love the place to be~n with.Now, I did not explain to tri-lingual weekly newspaper in Tampa, Florida. 

Atthebe~rullingoftheyear,I r--------------------------------------------~ 
received a memo from the Office of Residence Life ur~ng me to read the new, improved version of Du Lac. I'm glad I did, because in doing so, I dis­covered that I disagree strenu­ously with a few items in the section entitled "Information and Support Services for Victims of Rape and Sexual Assault." I should emphasize that I offer my criticism not in a spirit of acrimony, but to sug­gest the possibility of chan~ng some seriously misleading lan­guage in Du Lac. 
The general point of the sec­tion on rape in Du Lac is laud­able. One problem, however, is that though Du Lac condemns both rape and sexual assault, it gives no explicit definition of either of these terms. My real difficulty is that on the face of it, the characterization of rape that it does offer seems almost obviously false. On p. 79, Du Lac says, "Rape is a crime of violence. It is motivated by the desire to control, dominate, and humiliate, not the desire for sex." The same claim is repeat­ed on p. 82: "The University is sensitive to the following facts: 
... Rape is a violent, not a sexu-L.-------......:~--------------~----~
al, act." 
me, is that they see rape as a ever raping anyone. It is cru­
I don't think it makes any 
means of gratifying two sorts of cial, I think, not to confuse such sense to describe rape as an act desires (coercion and sex) matters, when formulating athat is motivated by coercion thathave patholo~cally become policy on rape and sexualrather than sex. From the per­
fused into one (rape). assault.
spective of the criminal, it's 
One might want to emphasize The solution to the difficulty,certainly less risky to assault that not every purely sexual act it seems to me, is fairly simple: someone with a deadly weapon eventuates in rape. That's true just excise the two passages Ithan to rape them. If coercion 
enough, but then again, not quoted earlier from the next 
were the only issue involved, every purely coercive act even­version of Du Lac. 
we would expect people to take 
tuates in rape, either: a person
the least risky means to achiev­
could want to coerce others, IRFAN KHAWAJA 
ing their end. But they don't, 
and act on that desire, without Graduate Student in Philosophy 
and the explanation, it seems to 
Dear Editor: 
Human-to-human contact is a treasure to be cherished for it is the essence of life. Unfortunately in this age of the supposed great "information highway," the very essence of existence is being replaced by treacherous technology. For instance, consider the phe­nomenon of e-mail. Theoretically, it is a device for convenience, shrinking the world to an even smaller com­municative dimension. But in reality, it is nothing more than a vehicle for avoidance, either intentional or unintentional. 
I have heard stories of stu­dents "e-mailing" each other on this very campus! The absurdi­ty of such nonsensical banter should be quite obvious. E-mail has become another toy to serve the purpose of entertain­ment and laziness: the American way. Talking to peo­ple face-to-face, hearing their voice, sensing their presence, feeling their touch·, even their various smells, is becoming an undermined mode of communi­cation. 
Are we to fulfill the prophesy that one day we will evolve into a species with one eye and one finger? The eye is to watch the screen and the finger to press buttons. We are losing our hu­man-ness. 
Another prime example of our "space-ship earth" mental­ity is that hated device of sim­plification: the television. We have so often seen Ted Brokaw that we take his journalism the same way fundamentalists in­terpret the Bible. We have lost our analytical consciousness. 
The glorified figures emanating from our screen are a form of escape, a way to live another false life and to escape from our own. Next time you are watching the news, look close­ly, you can see the make-up on the anchor's faces. 
I even despise telephones: the incessant ringing, the dread of a certain call, the interruption of my patterns, the annoyance at not being able to be with the person, but instead, merely 
'Are we to fulfill the prophesy that one day we will evolve into a species with one eye and one finger?' 
transmitting vocal patterns through ingenious devices at a rapid pace. Experiential time together is a much more valu­able use of time. Even writing letters constrains one to a monologue, expressive yes, but not quite interactive. 
Thus, what I am saying is to join the low-tech revolution. Either abuse the highway, ob­struct it, or disregard it. Don't let it subtly become just anoth­er unconscious feature of your life. The growing information highway is a destruction of the most valuable possession we have. Even this letter does not do me justice as a three-dimen­sional human being, all I prob­ably am to you is an opinion. 
DAVE MCMAHON Junior Dismas house 

ACCENT 
Tuesday, October 11, 1994 page 11 
Tori Amos' music knows no bounds 

By ROB ADAMS from electric shock at particu­Amos was on-stage alone with Music Critic lar points in her arrangements. two pianos) to accompany her 
Drama became an element of for the song "God." 
In the world of Tori Amos, her own survival on stage. The audience was mesmer­music and song have no bound­Wearing a cut-off T -shirt and ized while Amos was singing. aries, no limits, and no defini­jeans, Amos exuded an aura of Half hypnotized by the light­tions. Stories that she can tell elegance beyond what her pres­show and in utter awe of her through the notes of her piano ence suggested. Seldomly vocal power, they would only and the power of her voice focusing on anything longer respond when allowed, not only have a way of melting all indi­than a few seconds, her blank after the music had stopped, vidual emotions and opening up gazes jumped from the piano to but after Amos had given a the collective. the microphone to the audience short bow to acknowledge the 
Proof of this is no more much like that of a curious fact that she was finished. intense than in her live shows child. Amos' music, like making art as Amos displayed in a concert To Tori Amos, there is no from recycled goods, is con­last night at the Morris Civic such thing as simply singing. structed of abstract formations Auditorium. There are levels of song. from classical piano and rock 
After Peter Stuart's breezy According to the tone of the music. It becomes most potent opening set of acoustic guitar, moment, Amos' voice would at her live shows. Often the quirky lyrics, and brief rips on range from the softest whisper, audience did not recognize society aided by crowd partici­to conversational speaking, to a what she was singing until the pation, Amos took the stage soulful wailing, to the growl of first words were sung. After amid the music from Clint an exorcism. Eagerly reaching leaving for a spell, Amos Eastwood's classic "The Good, for each piano key with a con­returned to play the heavily­The Bad, and The Ugly," show­tented spirit, Amos broke into anticipated "Cornflake Girl." ing a sense of humor. The "Happy Phantom." Charming "Hey Tori, how about dinner hushed chortling ended soon, the audience with quick but after the show?!" screamed one however, as her first song was meaningful smiles, she com­vivacious man midway through an eerie rendition of "Smells pleted one of the most raucous the set. Like Teen Spirit." Hidden renditions of the night. "Can you cook worth any­behind a vast array of fantastic Drum machines and key­thing, honey?" she asked, as if lighting, Amos' body jolted as if boards came out of nowhere (as from a script. 

Little Earthquakes  Crucify  Under the Pink  
1991  1992  1994  
3 1/2 stars  3 stars  4 stars  

Time to heed the Surgeon General's warning 
By JOANNE PAVIN bronchioles of the lungs, causes Accent Writer swelling of the epithelial lining, and decreases fluid secretion of 
Surgeon General's warnings are the bronchial tree. flying, but the Marlboro man still The airways to the lungs, rides his horse, Luckys still strike it known as the trachea and big, Virginia Slim babes still come a bronchiole tubes are lined with long, long way and everyone still cilia, or hairlike projections, feels Kool dangling their menthols, which normally remove excess lights, kings or 100' s. fluids and foreign particles. 
Smoking has not changed A single cigarette can para­much since the Indians began lyze the cilia for several hours, rolling tobacco over a hundred with repeated exposure eventu­years ago, except for the avail­ally leading to ciliary destruc­ability of hard pack, soft pack, tion. Failure to sweep out the filter or non and the fact that constant stream of mucus cigarette smoking has been allows inspired carcinogens to proven to increase the risk of remain in contact with the res­lung cancer, heart disease, piratory airways for prolonged emphysema, and a variety of periods. other pulmonary disorders. Tobacco smoke also sup­
Over the years, cigarette presses the immune system. smoking has evolved from ma­Alveoli are the sacs in the lungs cho and sexy into deadly and where oxygen exchange oc­reduced, and your overall energy 
by tobacco smoke is oxygen ex­blood cells grab carbon monox­
disgusting. In fact, according to curs. Macrophages are cells in level increases.
change. Oxygen is normally ide before oxygen resulting in 
the American Cancer Society, our immune system that attack Within 5 to 10 years, the
carried to body tissues by 02 depletion in the tissues. 
about 17 million Americans try and eat up bacteria(like Pac heart and circulatory system
means of red blood cells. This means the heart has to 
to kick the habit each year, but Man). repairs itself and your chance
Red blood cells contain a pro­work much harder to supply
only about 3 million succeed Alveolar macrophages are of death due to lung cancer
tein called hemoglobin (Hb), the rest of the systems with
due to nicotine' s highly addic­found in the alveoli and are decreases dramatically. Within
which is responsible for picking oxygen. The constant stress
tive properties. incapacitated by the toxic effect 10 years, pre-cancerous cells

up oxygen via receptors. effects the functioning ability of 
Smoking is a common college of tobacco smoke. The reduced are replaced and your chance
Carbon monoxide (CO), a all the systems in the body and 
habit, but most smokers reach ability to engulf foreign materi­of lung cancer death drops to
byproduct of cigarette smoke, increases the risk of health
for a cigarette unaware of the al irritates mucus lining of the almost that of a nonsmoker.
also can be picked up by hemo­problems.
physiological effects it has on respiratory tract, resulting in Kicking the habit may be
globin. However, hemoglobin It is obvious that the risks of 
the body. Most people would excess stationary mucus (the tough, but now that the facts
likes carbon monoxide 240 smoking outweigh the benefits,
rather not know, but quitting mucus remains stationary be­are out you might think twice
times better than oxygen ( the but the benefits of quitting
might be a lot easier to do if cause of the paralyzed cilia). about that small little rectangu­
affinity of Hb to CO is 240 times greatly outweigh the continua­
the grueling facts became com­Extra mucus collects bacteria lar message on the side of your 
that of the bond strength tion of the nasty habit. 
mon knowledge. and increases the risk for in­cigarette box, "Quitting smok­
between Hb and 02). According to the American 
Nicotine is considered a toxic fection. ing now greatly reduces serious 
In other words, when smoke Lung Association, within 20
drug. It constricts the terminal A third factor that is effected risks to your health." 
is inhaled into the lungs red minutes of your last cigarette, 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 11, 1994 
.NBA 

Sanies' Kemp signs extension Hornets in Mourning, 
By CASEY COMBS then making money on top of deal. 
Alonzo out for two weeks 
Associated Press that definitely is a blessing." "Anytime that you hold out, 
SEATTLE 
A beaming Shawn Kemp com­pleted his first workout of the season Monday with the Seattle SuperSonics, sporting a beefed­up build to match his freshly padded contract. 
The 6-foot-10, All-Star power forward missed the first three days of practice before agree­ing Sunday to a contract ex­tension that boosts his salary to about $5 million a season over the next nine years. 
Though clearly excited about the new agreement, Kemp was philosophical. 
"Anytime you can first of all do a job and be happy with it, you got to be satisfied," he said after cooling down. ''I'm doing that just playing ball ... and 

With eight years remaining on his present deal, worth more than $26 million, Kemp nego­tiated a one-year extension that includes a "balloon payment" of about $20 million for the 2002-03 season. 
The big chunk at the end of the contract is expected to bal­ance out this season's $800,000 salary that was part of Kemp's original six-year deal, signed in 1989. 
Kemp, 24, led the Sonics to a 63-19 record last season, best in the team's history. He aver­aged 18.1 points, 10.8 re­bounds, 2.6 assists and 2.1 blocked shots. 
Kemp said Monday he skipped the early practices at the recommendation of the agents who were negotiating the new it's difficult. That's something that I never thought would hap­pen to me, but ... basically I hired the people to take care of the job and (sitting out) was on their behalf," he said. 
"It was unfortunate that it took so long. I was hoping it could've been done by the start (of practice)." 
Coach George Karl was reluc­tant to discuss the situation, but indicated Kemp would be putting in some extra time to make up for the missed days. 
"We're not having practice tonight, but he will practice tonight," Karl said Monday afternoon, stressing the word "he." Kemp will also be fined $1,200-$300 for each day of training camp missed. 
Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
Charlotte Hornets center Alonzo Mourning, in a cast with an injured toe, will miss the next two weeks of training camp. 
Mourning, whose injuries last year cost him 21 games, has a strained flexor tendon in the big toe of his right foot. 
"He injured it over the sum­mer and it's not considered a real serious injury," team spokesman Harold Kaufman said. 
The 6-foot-10 center is expect­ed to be ready to play before preseason ends. Charlotte's first exhibition game is Friday night against the Atlanta Hawks in Johnson City, Tenn. 
The next day. the Hornets fly to Paris for a two-game European tour. Mourning may join his teammates on the trip. 
The Hornets also announced Monday that backup guard Tony Bennett will be sidelined for two weeks to help re­habilitate his left foot, injured during the offseason. 
The Hornets open the regular season Nov. 4 in Chicago. 
Mourning missed 15 games last season with a torn muscle in his left calf. He missed another six games with a sprained right ankle. 
After making it into the second round of the playoffs in 1992, the injury-riddled Hornets struggled to a 41-41 record last year. rmishing in fifth place in the Central Division. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  NEED BYU TIXI  I NEED A. F. G.A.'s  HELP$$$$1 I need 2 GAs & 1 stud  I need a ride to and from NJ for  
NOTICES  Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 1 (800)359-9808  2-4 GA's & 2 Stud. call LINDI 284-5151  Call Dave 634-1198  ticket for BYU · parents & sis coming. For lots of $$$$$$, call  October break. I will share driving and expenses.  
272-92031  Lara x2518  
USED BOOKS & CLIFF'S NOTES Pandora's Books 233·2342  FOR RENT  Desparately need 4 BYU GA's Call Megan at 4072  I NEED 2 BYU G.A.'s !I Will Trade Franklin, or Best Offer  Need 2 BYU GA's .... Call Phil at  3 Female Grad Students:  
NO Ave & Howard M-Sa/10-6  ED @ 271-8151  x3520  -Need 1 more roommate- 
Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store  THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  PARENTS HATE YOU?  Oak Hill $300/mo. 273-6153  
NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED  SELL ME THEIR NAVY TIXII  NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR  
Downtown book wholesaler seeks  BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  SERIOUS CASH!!  MORMONS coming in from out of  GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM  Hi Laura! I wish I could be with you.  
warehouse workers Flexible hours  NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  CALL JERRY AT 3024  town · need BYU GA's fast... will  HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON  I love you and I always will.  
& wkend work available 232·8500  OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­ pay big bucks ... please call X1997  SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME.  -Sleepless at St. Norbert XOXO  
X22 ask for Bryan  773-2034  I NEED 8 TICKETS TO BYU  ·call Mike at 4-1177  
STUDENT OR GA'S CALL  Need Student Tickets for BYU  We're Open  
PROFESSIONAL TYPING by  Fully furnished clean 2 bedroom  MEGHAN X4541  and AirForce.  NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR  Early, Late, & Weekendslll  
Angie. Special student rate: $1.25  5 rooms total, 1 1/2 block south of  Call X1899 and ask for Jon  GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
per page. Resumes start at $9.  St. Joe Med Center  Will trade two or more tickets for  HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON  LaFortune Student Center  
Located one block west of IUSB.  safe quiet neighborhood  any remaining NO football game  HELPII need 2 GA's for BYU, my  SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME.  Phone 631-COPY  
Call237-0967.  $450 plus deposit. Utilities, cable,  tor two good james Taylor tickets.  parents are coming. call Katie 284­ -call Mike at 4-1177  
air and trash included  273-1080.  5132.  Established campus band with  
AUDITIONS FOR SEINFELD would  Private entrance  NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR  guaranteed gigs needs lead gui­ 
be fun but come to the Leo Burnett  call 233-8327 or see at 224 North  I NEED NAVY GA'S  Help! We need 2 BYU tickets­ GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM  tarist. Call Pick 277-2375  
advertising presentation instead.  St. Peter St.  MAAKX1640  student or GAs and 2 NAVY GAs.  HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON  
Thursday Oct. 13, 7PM. University  Ideal for grad student or prof.  Please call Kathleen at 4-3917.  SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME.  tormented by modflow  
Club. All majors welcome.  References required  Need 3 BYU GA's &  -call Mike at 4-1177  
ILOST & FOUND I  Lodging for NO football games-near campus 233-8745 after  3NAVYGA's call4-2010  Need 6 BYU GAs and 3 BYU Stud Tix  NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM  Hey Chuck Diesel and Doughnuts whats going on girls???  
5:00pm  SELL ME YOUR AIR FORCE TIXS  Call Chad at X3368  HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON  I need a ride to NJ for break. Will  
LOST STUDENT 1.0. NEAR GATE  CALL-BRENDAN AT 277-6315  SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME.  help w/ ALL expenses.  
15 ON SAT. 10/1. REWARD. CALL 287-4546. THANK YOU.  FOR SALE  NEED 2 BYU GA'S. WILL PAY  I have 2 Navy GA. I'm NOT  ·call Mike at 4-1177  -Elaine x2328.  
$$$$$$-call Brian @ X1739  SELLING, but WILL TRADE  • • • HELP MEl I NEED SIX BYU  
My name is Huan Pu Cui. I am a  Selling one-way plane ticket South  them for 2 BYU GA.  STDT TIX FOR MY LONG-LOST  Garrett, shave your head  
Citizen of China. I lost my passport.  Bend to Providence, Chris X1955.  Please, sell me one ticket to FSUI  Call Pam at 219-625·4144  BROTHERS! CALL BETH X4841  
I declare that my passport will be  Monica-X2995  Damian, nice dog pictures  
invalid after October 8, 1994.  Tired of Waiting in long computer  I NEED 2 BYU GA's  ND v FSU. Have 13 tickets 34-40  
lines? Buy your own  Sale: Studs. All Remaining Games  Call Carolyn at 271-9669  yd line. Call407·365·0665  cheers to the "graced leg of Justin"  
WANTED  IBM 486 SX, 4 MB Ram, 400 MB Hard drive, keyboard, mouse , and  Call Tom at 2042  evenings.  who won Grace's football game  
$$$ of programs-lotus, excel, word·  NEED 5 BYU GA'S • CALL Joe @  Need BYU GA's. Call Erin @4015  I need GA's or student tickets for  
Want two good tickets to see  perfect, quattro pro, harvard graph­ x2765  BYU. Call Chris 271-1390  PRAYER TO THE BLESSED VIA­ 
James Taylor. Will trade tickets for  ics. Call X0640 $900 or best offer.  GIN never known to fail  
·­ any remaining football games.  NEED 2 • 4 BYU GA'S OR STUD.  NEED NAVY GAs-CALL TJ@  I need GA's for BYU, Navy and AF.  Oh Most beautiful flower of MI.  
273-1080  TICKETS  TIX. CALL TONY. X4532  634-1290  Please call if u can help ............ . Call Tony@ 4-3883  Carmel, fruitful vine, splendor of Heaven, Blessed Mother of the Son  
$$$$  I NEED 8 (YES, 8) BYU GA's  HELP!! I NEED 2 GA TICKETS  of God, Immaculate Virgin, assist  
NEED BYU GAS!  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  CALL AMY X2652  FOR BYU AND NAVY!! Call  I need 4 GA's for the Airforce  me in my necessity.  
WILL PAY BIG$  I need 2 BYU GA's!  Monica at X4091.  Game. Call Ashley 284-4310.  Oh Star of the Sea, help me and  
CALL 1-8317  My Dad has  Rooms for rent. BYU & Navy  Thanks.  show me here you are my Mother.  
$$$  a LOT of Money.  games. Call 255-9005 for more  $$$$$Help! I need Air Force GAs.  Oh Holy Mary, Mother of God,  
Give Me a Call!  information.  Please call Gina at 277·0740.$$$$$  I will be your best friend for a BYU  Queen of Heaven and Earth. I  
Two Students need a ride to the  Ryan @ 289-5897  GA or student ticket. (There's also  humbly beseech you from the bot­ 
WASHINGTON D.C. AREA  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  BLIND MAN DYING TO HEAR BYU  Desperately need  money involved). Call Cara. 284­ tom of my heart to succor me in my  
for Fall Break. Will PAY FOR GAS!  GAME IN PERSON. WILL BUY  1 (or 2) BYU GAs. $Big Bucks$.  4310.  necessity .... (request) ....... There are  
call Monica@ 4-3196  STUD/GA BYU TIX OR TRADE  Call Gene 287-9134  none that can withstand your  
WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU  FOR AF OR NAVY GAs. 216-721­ Please! I need 1 BYU GA!! Call  power.  
PIZZA MAKER · PART TIME ­ TICKETS. CALL  8163  We need 6 BYU and 2 Navy GA's  Mary Beth at x4220  Oh Mary, conceived without sin,  
EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD  800-922·2327 JANET.  Call Jon or Brian X1620  pray for us who have recourse to  
MONEY.  NEED G.A. TIX TO NO VS BYU.  I HAVE BYU STUD TIX 4 SALE  thee...(repeat) (repeat)  
CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW  I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.  CALL JOE @ 287-4561 BEFORE  Selling BYU and NAVY student tick­ MICHELE 284-5326  Holy Mary, I place this prayer for  
YORK 257-1100.  272-6551  11P.M.  et. Call Kathleen 273-5176.  your hands. (rep) (rep)  
For sale: 2 NAVY stud.tix call2946  --say 3 consec days; publish;  
Campus Band needs Lead  STUDENT AND GAS NEEDED  STUDTIX- will be granted--­ 
Guitarist. Guaranteed gigs. Call  FOR BYU AND GAS FOR AF.  LAST 3 HOME GAMES  1 BYU stud tic. to sell  NEED 1 BYU GA  
Pick 277-2375  PLEASE! CALL JEANNE AT  CALL 271-1249 WITH OFFER  call287-1449  Call Chris x3767  
)(2478.  no phone, no breadsticks allowed  
I NEED 2 BYU GAs  2 FSU GA's  I need 1 Navy or 1 Air Force GA  after CJ's from now on !  
CALL McKENNA 271-2956  Need BYU student TIX (or GA's)  Best Offer  in need of 2 NAVY GA's. Please  Please Help. Tom 3253  
WILL PAY WHAT IT TAKES  Will pay good money  Kevin x1955  call Melissa @ 4929.  hi, this is jj & mm. we want a RON I I  
Call Dennis at (914) 294-6546  NEED BYU STUD -1862  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ or 634-4012.  Need GA's for BYUI Call Jeff at  watch out for flying baseball bats­ 
Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  WANTED Two GA Tickets to  x2174  PERSONAL  why don't you get into the black & white car, soberly.  
panies. World travel (Hawaii,  HOME GAMES. 272-7233.  the BYU Game  WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GAs FOR  
Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.)  Call ASAP with your  2 BYU TIX. Call Val #4·2597  EEEEEEVVVVVVEEEEEE !1!11  
Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ I NEED BYU GA'S  tickets! 4-2617  SEINFEST '94!1  
ment available. No experience nec­ CALL JEFF @ 277-8250  Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call  1ST ANNUAL SUB COMEDY TAL­ t, i miss lab (ggrrr 1). let's go back  
essary. For more information call1·  Sue at 277-8995  ENTSHOWI  for another 5 hours. FUN FUN  
206-634-()468 ext. C55841  I need 3 G.a>'s to B.Y.U. If u  Need 2-3 Airforce GAs. Leslie 273­ WATCH FOR SIGNUPS FOR  FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN FUN  
can help, call Ron at x1736  9303  AUDITIONS AT DINING HALLS  
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK  NY Alum needs 1-4 tickets for BYU  10/11-1311 ­YOU COULD BE THE  kp, do you want to go to Oprah ?  
'95! LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA,  I need one Air Force GA or student  I need 2 GAs for Navy. Please call  game. Call1-800-666-4949  NEXT JERRY SEINFELDII  
CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE.  ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please  Kristine at 4-3806. Thank you  ext. 220. Ask for Ann Hiens  ec, be sure to cover your eyes  
BOOK EARLY AND SAVE$$$!  call X3822. Thanks!  VERY MUCH!  THE COPY SHOP  while drawring.  
ORGANIZE GROUP,TAAVEL  NEED 1 BYU Tick  in LaFortune Student Center now  
FREEl SUN SPLASH TOUAS1­ HELP! I need 4 Navy tickets-stud.  NEED 1 STUD. & 2 GA'S FOR AIR  Stud orGA  accepts VISA, MC, and MAC cards  hey y'all :) mum's the word til Nov.4  
800-426-7710  and GA. Call Brian at x.2034.  FORCE. CALL LOU @ 233-4008.  Please Call Darryl @4243  for your copying needs.  (no telling allowed)  

........................................................... -.. ­

Tuesday, October 11, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• MARATHONS 
Coach 
continued from page 20
New York City Marathon legend dies at 62 

Wear a *purple ribbon* to show your SU2POrt for Lesbian, Gay,and Bisexual People! 
*The ribbons are available in academic buildings.
Look for the purple signs!!! 
By BERT ROSENTHAL he always was trying to give the American. Although track and It was the first time he had 
Associated Press spectators and television view­field officials later found the broken into tears since he was 
ers the greatest show in the course to be slightly short, hospitalized with cancer. At 
NEW YORK sport's history. Lebow insisted there were no that time, the tears came when 
Fred Lebow was a combina­Of course, he also was at the irregularities and the time a doctor told him he needed tion of Barnum & Bailey and start of each New York City should be accepted as a record. chemotherapy treatments. Lou Gehrig. Marathon and at the finish line, It was a losing battle, but one He cried alone in his hospital 
Like the circus pitchmen, congratulating the winners -Lebow never gave up fighting. bed that day. When a nurse Lebow was an innovator, acre­and losers. He fought it as tenaciously as entered the room, Lebow ator. a showman. The marathon was his baby. he fought brain cancer. turned his head into the pillow.
Like the former New York 
He nursed it into fruition in He had wanted so des­He did not want the nurse to Yankees first baseman, Lebow 1970. At the beginning, it perately to be around for the see him in tears. lived a quiet, dignified life and attracted just over 100 runners race's 25th running on Nov. 6, During that stay in the hospi­leaves a legacy unmatched in and was run strictly in Central but the disease was too over­tal, Lebow did something that his field. Park. whelming. few patients do: he exercised 
Gehrig, the "Iron Horse," is Then, in 1976, with the race While he will not be there, regularly. He could be seen remembered for his consecu­growing in popularity each his memory will not be forgot­walking in the halls daily. start­tive-game streak of 2,130, year, Lebow decided to take the ten. The race will be dedicated ing with a couple of steps and while Lebow will always be marathon into the city's five to him and the field of some working his way up to a mile. mentioned when people discuss boroughs. 25,000 will be thinking, "Fred, He had to remain active physi­the running boom in the United That was the move the race This Run's for You," just like cally. more for his mind than States. needed to acquire international the theme of the 1991 New his body. 
Although he never was a stature. It also helped that Bill York City Marathon fund-rais­great runner, Lebow dedicated Rodgers, one of the world's top ing drive for cancer research. While there for eight weeks, the last 25 years of his life to marathoners, won the race in 2 Lebow ran in the race only he did not miss any of the perpetuating the sport. His pas­hours, 10 minutes, 10 seconds, twice -in the inaugural weekly races conducted by the sion for the marathon was shattering the race record by marathon and in the 1992 New York Road Runners Club unbridled. more than nine minutes. event, accompanied by Grete in Central Park. He watched 
On Sunday, Lebow died after From then on, Lebow's status Waitz, the nine-time women's them from his lOth-floor hospi­a 4 1/2-year battle with brain as a running guru soard. champion. It was agonizing to tal room. cancer. He was 62. Rodgers won the race again watch Lebow struggle through The runners must have been 
The most familiar sight of the the next three years, before that 92 race in more than five told where he was, because thin, frail Lebow had him Alberto Salazar, a prominent hours, but there was no hap­many raised their arms to wave standing in the pace car along long-distance runner, made his pier fmisher that day. as they passed the hospitalthe route of the New York City marathon debut in 1980 by He had courageously com­building.Marathon and encouraging the winning in a course record pleted the course less than The NYRRC, of which Lebow runners to quicken their pace, 2:09:41. three years after being diag­was its long-time president, to run as fast as they could, to Salazar also won the next nosed with brain cancer -and cpnducts more than 100 races a achieve their personal bests. two years, with his time of he cried. He had earned that year, covering distances of less 
As the marathon ringmaster, 2:08:13 the fastest ever by an emotional outburst. than a mile up to 100 miles. 
E./ ERNST& YOUNG LLP 
Management Consulting 
~----------------~ 
Ernst & Young LLP is one of 
the fastest growing consulting 
(lrms in the U.S., with particular 
emphasis in Business Process 
Innovation and Reengineering. 
If you are interested in growing 
with us, please join us. 
Presentation and Reception 
For further information please
Date: Sunday, October 16, 1994 
Time: 6:00 p.m. call Kelly Unger at 
Location: Notre Dame Room 
3121879-2352
in the La Fortune Student Center Business Casual 
Coach Brown. 
"She will add much to the staff, especially in the matches and in the gym during prac­tices," she continued. "We are very fortunate to have her." 
The team has had much time iD. the gym to practice and pre­pare for tomorrow night's match against the Michigan Wolverines. After playing 13 matches in 16 days at the be­ginning of the season, this will only be the second match two weeks for the Irish. 
The Irish are 3-1 against Michigan, 2-0 under Coach Brown. The Wolverines bring a 5-11 record overall and a 1-5 record in the Big Ten to South Bend, but are still expected to give the Irish a good match. 
"Michigan's record is deceiv­ing," said Brown. "The Big Ten is a very strong conference and it has taken them a while to get established." 
"They are used to playing good teams and will be ready for us." 
Looking ahead to the second half of the season, the road is definitely expected to get tougher for the Irish, who have had a record breaking season thus far. 
The team has received a com­

mand performance from senior 
co-captain Christy Peters, who 
has broken the Notre Dame 
career records for kills with 
1,471, total attacks with 3,486, 
and digs with 1,324. 
Peters has been named MVP 

of all four tournaments this 
season and has been an all­
tournament selection in 10 
consecutive tournaments. 
Freshman outside hitter Angie Harris also set a single-match record with seven service aces against Loyola Marymount. Harris leads the team with 28 service aces on the season, and has also contributed 202 kills, putting her second behind Peters, and 143 digs. 
Another key performance has been that of junior setter Shannon Tuttle, who has passed the 1,000 career assist mark and has been named an all-tournament selection in three of the four tournaments the Irish have participated in this season. Tuttle had a per­sonal high 7 4 assists in last game the Irish played against Louisville on October 1st. 
Please, Recycle The 
Observer 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 11, 1994 
•NFL • CoLLEGE FooTBAll 
-' 
Turnovers costly in Giants' loss Another Nebraska 
By DAVE GOLDBERG yard touchdown drive that yard field goal in the first quar­Associated Press began on the Giants' 6-yard­ter, tacked on a 24-yarder that line with 1:27 left in the first made it 27-10. 
player hospitalized 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

half. Minnesota improved to 4-2,
Anthony Parker and Warren Associated Press He did not play in the second
It alone demonstrated why the tied for first in the NFC Central 
Moon showed New York Giants' half after having X-rays at the
Giants decided to give him their with Chicago. The Giants' loss,
prize prospect Dave Brown that LINCOLN, Neb. intermission, and third-stringer
starting job and release veteran on the night Lawrence Taylor's
he still has a lot to learn about Nebraska quarterback Brook Matt Turman finished out the
Phil Simms. Brown was 6-of-8 "56" jersey was retired by the 
life in the NFL. Berringer went through a limit­victory.
for 91 yards in the drive. team, was their second straight 
Parker picked off a pass by ed practice on Monday, but it Nebraska relied heavily on its
But on New York's first series after they opened the season 
Brown and returned it 44 yards will be Thursday or Friday vaunted ground game with
of the second half, he demon­with three straight wins. 
before it is decided if he will
for a touchdown on the fourth Turman at the controls, and
strated his inexperience, rais­It was also the first Minnesota 
play of the third quarter play at Kansas State this week­running back Lawrence Phillips 
ing up and passing into the flat win over New York since 1976. 
Monday night to break a tie and end, coach Tom Osborne said. and the Cornhuskers' offensive
and hitting Parker perfectly in The Giants had won four 
lead the Minnesota Vikings to Berringer. who inherited the line had little trouble control­
stride. The Minnesota corner­straight during that period, one 
27-10 win over the Giants. starting job when Tommie ling play against the Cowboys. 
back took it untouched down of them a playoff game last 
Moon, with 154 NFL starts to Frazier was lost for the season Phillips set career highs with
the left sideline for the score, January.
Brown's five, was 23-of-34 for because of blood clots, has 221 yards rushing and 33 car­
the second straight game that It was largely the product of a 
299 yards and touchdown pass been battered in both of his ries. He scored three TDs, two
Brown has had an interception defense that has now scored 13 
and demonstrated the rythym starts. in the decisive third quarter,
returned for a score. defensive touchdowns in its last 
that Brown has yet to learn. He was hospitalized with a for the second straight game. 
Moon hit Cris Carter with a 18 games. 
Parker's interception came af­partially collapsed left lung With the quarterback situation 
20-yard TD pass late in the Rodney Hampton, who re­
ter Brown, who also threw an after rallying the second­still shaky, though, quarterback 
period to make it 24-10 and turned to the Giants after miss­
interception that led to ranked Cornhuskers to a 42-32 coach Turner Gill and head
putting Brown, who finished ing two games with a back in­
victory against Wyoming two
Minnesota's first touchdown, coach Tom Osborne have tried
18-for-36 for 226 yards and jury, was limited to 27 yards in 
had tied it with a 3-yard run. weeks ago, then reaggravated to do some recruiting, surpris­
three interceptions, into a hur­13 carries after rushing for 161 
The quarterback draw came at the injury in a 32-3 victory over ingly in the Huskers' defensive
ryup mode. Fuad Reveiz, who yards in the Giants' playoff win 
Oklahoma State on Saturday. backfield.
the end of a remarkable 94­

opened the scoring with a 44-over Minnesota last season.. 

I I I I I i I I l I 
L 
----1 
The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
J
• COLLEGE fOOTBAU 
""-I 
Orange Bowl site in question l 

By TIM DAHLBERG Associated Press 
lAS VEGAS 

Rollie Massimino's future as UNLV basketball coach was on the line Monday as university officials tried to negotiate a possible buyout of the remain­ing years on his contract. 
'J 
Just five days before the Runnin' Rebels were to start practice, Massimino met with UNLV interim president Kenny Guinn to discuss whether he
J $1·800·TALK-USA $ 
would remain as coach.
America's Inexpensive way fo call collect 
Massimino emerged from the 
~ 1M mote$_Mom & Ded. 1M mote IMy tJ.e ID .$you 1 
meeting to confirm a buyout
C 
By STEVEN WINE Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Orange Bowl Committee members trying to keep their game from moving to Joe Robbie Stadium say the switch could harm the event, the city and even the Miami Hurricanes' football program. 
Supporters counter they have no choice but to approve the move beginning with the 1997 game. The decisive vote could come Tuesday during a meeting of the committee. 
"This issue is very emotional," committee president Ed Williamson said Monday. "It's also very complicated." 
The vote would be delayed if the new bowl alliance agrees to extend a Wednesday deadline for a decision. An extension was requested last Friday after the city unveiled a $30 million plan to renovate the Orange Bowl. Williamson said he'll fmd out just before the meeting whether the alliance has agreed to a delay. 
The Orange Bowl has been home to the annual New Year's night game for 60 years. At least two conference commis­sioners in the alliance have said they want the game moved to eliminate a possible home-field advantage for the Hurricanes in a national championship game. The alliance has indicated that 
unless the Orange Bowl moves, the game will be excluded from the planned rotation of top-tier postseason games in favor of the Gator Bowl. 
Opponents of the move are concerned about the impact on the surrounding area if the game abandons the Orange Bowl, located near downtown. They fear the city might decide to raze the old stadium, forcing the Hurricanes to play home games 30 minutes from campus in Joe Robbie Stadium. 
They say the Orange Bowl fes­tival will lose both its Miami identity and support for game­related activities if the game is played in suburban Dade County . 

• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Massimino under fire at UNLV 
had been proposed, but said nothing was resolved. 
"We talked about it, but it was a very preliminary discussion," Massimino said. "We talked in generalities about the whole situation." 
The effort to settle Massimino's lucrative contract and oust him came amid reports that scholarship ticket sales were down 30 percent over last year and UNLV's ath­letic programs were facing a fmancial crunch. 
Massimino has been under fire since it was disclosed in August he had a secret supplemental contract with former UNLV administrators that paid him $375,000 a year in addition to his $511,000 base salary. 
Sources told The Associated Press that Guinn has decided Massimino should leave, and efforts were being made to structure a buyout to get the coach out. 
Guinn said Sunday that the meeting with Massimino would "certainly involve the possibili­ties about him staying or leav­ing. 
"We need to put to rest if he's going to be here or not," Guinn said. 

Michael P. Esposito, Jr. Executive Vice President of The Chase Manhattan Bank, N .A. and Alumnus of The University of Notre Dame will be hosting a reception on October 12, 1994 at the University Club, Main Lounge from 6 .. 8 p.m. to discuss career opportunities at Chase.  

I' 
page 16 
yard touchdown on the first play of the game to grab an

Men 
early 7-0 lead over the top continued from page 20 ranked Keenan team. 
Keenan fumbled on its first from Polk to Mark Nicholson, possession, so Stanford got the giving Morrissey a 7-0 lead. ball right back. Doug Pollina 
Grace tried to get its offense caught a pass, and running going in the second quarter, backs John Mele and Pollina but quarterback Brian Perez help drive the ball to the two fumbled and J.J. Jennings yard line. On fourth and goal recovered stalling a Grace from the two, Mele carried the drive. ball for an apparent touch­
Two plays later, Polk scram­down, but he was ruled down bled for forty yards, but a at the one. penalty erased the gain, and Keenan got the ball with terri­Morrissey would have to punt. ble field position, and after two 
In the third quarter with the Keenan-pehalties kept them at score still 7-0, Grace ran the the one, Keenan quarterback option and tailback Ryan Mark Bessette was dropped in Aylward would run fifty yards the end zone for a safety, and for an apparent touchdown, but an early 9-0 lead for Stanford. 
a penalty again negated a big On Keenan's next drive, play. Bessette would hit Collin Morrissey then drove to the Rittegers for an eighteen yard Grace eight early in the fourth gain, but his next pass was in­quarter, but the Grace defense tercepted by Charlie Algier. 
would stiffen, and force a twen­In the third quarter, Bessette ty-seven yard field goal that would hit Rich Props for a was no good. forty-one yard gain. Two plays 
On the very next play, Perez later, he would scramble for hit Dwire for an eighty yard nineteen himself, but a penalty touchdown. The two point con­would negate the play, and the version failed, so the score was drive would be stopped. 7-6, setting up Polk's fumble On the first series of the fourth two plays later. quarter, Stanford quarterback 
Polk completed three of eight Mike Brown was intercepted by passes for forty yards, and Collin Rittegers. Three plays Perez completed five of four­later, Dan Kraft caught teen for one hundred forty-five Bessette's pass in the end zone yards. to make it 9-7. 
Grace coach Pat Cooke was Stanford would play smash very pleased with his team's mouth football the rest of the performance. way, keeping the ball on the 
"The defense really stepped ground. Mele would score a up," he said. "We beat a great thirty-three yard touchdown, team in Morrissey who are the and Pollina ended the game as defending champions, and what he started it-with a long more could you ask than that?" touchdown run. 
commented Cooke. In his first start, Bessette Grace is not accustomed to played well with five comple­winning. "I'm the only person tions in eleven attempts for who hasn't won a game in eighty-five yards, but he was 
three years," said junior Bob intercepted twice. Stanford Brett of Grace. dominated on the ground with two hundred twenty-five yards 
Stanford 22, Keenan 7 rushing. 
Stanford came out on top of a Off Campus 7, Dillon 0 game that pitted two emotion­ally charged teams against Once again we learn that each other. 
turnovers can decide the out­

Stanford came out ready to come of the game. The score play on Sunday, as tailback was 0-0 early in the fourth Chris Pollina ran for an eighty 
Ducks hit the links during NHL lockout 
Associated Press ment for Disney GOALS, a non­
profit program designed to help 

TUSTIN, Calif. create hockey programs for 
The Anaheim Mighty Ducks underpriviledged children. haven't forgotten about the "This event has been planned labor strife in the NHL. But for quite a long time," Monday, they put it aside while Ladocuer said. "And we're not pounding golf balls with man­in such a bad relationship with agement. our team that we're going to 
The occasion was a charity cancel something like this and golf tournament that had been hurt a charity organization like scheduled long before the post­Disney GOALS. It's something ponement of the season. the guys are committed to do." 
"We have a pretty good rela­Stu Grimson, the team's assis­tionship with our manage­tant player representative, ment," team captain Randy agreed with Ladoceur that the Ladoceur said. "We all grew to­current labor acrimony took a gether last year and we'e been back seat to helping people treated really well here. who are on the periphery. 
"I still have nothing but good things to say about (general "If we can take a day like this manager) Jack Ferreira, (team and generate some funds for a president) Tony Tavares and great cause," Grimson said, (coach) Ron Wilson and I don't "that's the one positive we can hold anything personal against pull out of this when everything any of those guys." within the sport appears to be 
so negative. Where the chari­

With the lockout in its lOth ties are concerned, both sides day, the only sticks the Mighty have to treat them with a lot Ducks' players swung Monday more sensitivity because were irons and woods. They they're not part of this labor hosted a celebrity golf tourna-dispute." 
The Observer· SPORTS 

quarter when Dillon had the ball at its own five yard line. Brian Murphy recovered a Dillon fumble, setting Off Campus up on the seven yard line. On the second play, tail­back Mike Thompsen ran the ball seven yards from an option play for the game's only touch­down. 
The defenses dominated the first half. Off Campus had some success moving the ball, but two interceptions by Dillon ended drives. 
After an impressive Off Campus drive to open the sec­ond half, the Dillon defense stiffened, forcing a bad pitch, and sacking the Off Campus quarterback, Chris Hammond. 

On Off Campus's next drive, Mike Thompsen would fumble, and Dillon's Matt Gasaway recovered. However, Dillon would fumble two plays later, setting up the touchdown of Off Campus. 
Quarterback Chris Hammond was happy with the play of Off Campus, despite being inter­cepted twice in a three of nine performance. 
"It was an ugly win, but it was a win," he said. "Our offensive line and our defense dominat­ed. Those two things make us a tough team to beat." 



Leo Burnett JiJn9 t 
() 


in aJvertising ceithcero 


LEO BURNETT COMPANY, INC. 
The Leo Burnett Company is the largest ad agency in Chicago. And the man who created it graduated with a Bachelor of Arts. So don't let the fact that you're a History major or even a Chemical Engineering major keep you away from our presentation about a career in Client Service. At Leo Burnett, we're interested in people. Not majors. Thursday, October 13th, 7-9 pm University Club 
Tuesday, October 11, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
great job. We seem to be hit­usually translates into a victory. 
ting our peak." However against Off-Campus it
Wo01en •NBA ­
continued from page 20 
Weasels went on top to stay. 
The touchdown was enough to win and improve Pasquerilla West's record to 2-1-2. 
Despite the fact that Farley controlled the time of posses­sion and gained more first downs, they were unable to reach the red-zone. Nearly every substantial Farley drive was plagued by big defensive stops. Pasquerilla West would constantly catch Farley in the backfield and drive them back for negative yards. 
The Weasels nearly scored as the first half came to a close. However, the Farley defense stopped Pasquerilla West on the goal line as time dwindled down. 
Siegfried 32, Knott 6 
The Slammer offense clicked on all cylinders as Siegfried racked up 32 points over the winless Knott Angels boosting their undefeated record to 3-0­2. 
The scoring came early and often as Marce McNeill threw for three touchdowns. She also ran the ball well and passed to Margaret Zimmerman in clutch situations. The Knott defense was over-matched throughout the whole game. Any defensive look the Angels gave was beat­en on a consistent basis. 
The Slammers accumulated 
eight first downs to Knott's one 
in the whole game. 
"We were clicking on offense," said Slammer player Jen Laurie. "Marce McNeill did a 
The halftime score of 12-0 was not enough. continued to grow into the sec­"Our offense has been playing 
Cable executive, Cohan 
ond half as nearly every well," said Lewis sophomore Slammer touchdown was cre­Mary Beth Failla. "We were a 
purchases Golden State 
ated by a long McNeill pass or little flat after our big win over negotiations were friendly, said the purchase plan's genesis came at a trial conference two 
run. Knott's lone touchdown came  Pasquerilla West." Lewis's defense could not  By ANNE M. PETERSON Associated Press  
with about two minutes left to  handle the potent Off-Campus  
play  and  the  game  in  offense.  The defensive sec­ OAKLAND, Calif.  
Siegfried's hands.  A quarter­ ondary lost a  player which  When he was a young man  
back bootleg run around the  caused some headaches for  pumping  gas  for  a  living,  
· left side enabled the Angels to  Lewis.  Christopher Cohan dreamed of  
squelch the Slammers' hopes at  "Our defense was missing one  owning  the  Golden  State  
securing a shutout.  of our key players and had to  Warriors. On Monday, the cable  
Besides the Knott touchdown,  switch others around to make  television executive was intro­ 
Siegfried's defense shut down  up for the loss," mentioned  duced as the team's sole owner.  
the Angels holding Knott to only  Fallia.  "I've been very fortunate," he  
one first down.  The passes  said. "It is a dream come true."  
were defensed well and the  The  Warriors  announced  
Slammers stopped the  runs  Saturday that Cohan, who had  
before any ballhandler could  owned 25 percent of the team,  
break loose for a big gain.  planned to buy out chairman  
"The  defense  was  great,"  Jim Fitzgerald and president  
added Laurie.  "Anytime you  Dan Finnane.  
can hold an opponent to six  The  purchase  price  has  
points, you know you've done a  ranged in various reports from  
good job."  $95 million to $105 million.  
Siegfried capped off the scor­ Terms of the transfer were  
ing on a short pass up the mid­ expected to be completed Jan.  
dle as time expired.  4, pending approval of the  
NBA's Board of Governors.  
Off-Campus 18,  The surprise announcement  
Lewis 13  closed a lawsuit brought by  
Cohan against Fitzgerald and  
Off-Campus defeated Lewis 18-13 raising their record to 2­1-1 after suffering their first loss of the season against Siegfried in the past week. Lewis led at halftime 7-6 after  Finnane over ownership of the team. Cohan had claimed that when he bought the team in 1991, it was with the under­standing he would eventually become full owner.  
Debbie Droll intercepted an Off­Campus pass and returned it for a touchdown. The point­after attempt was good. Off-Campus came back right after the second half kickoff to  Cohan's attorney, Robin Baggett, said the sale agree­ment, reached on Friday, resolves the dispute. Lawyers for both sides had been sched­uled to be in court for the mat­ 
score and gain the lead which they never relinquished. Lewis scored 13 points which  ter Tuesday. 'That's over. That's history," Baggett said. "We should respect that."  
Cohan, who maintains the sale  

MEGHAN DENIRO IS LOOSE,
LUSCIOUS, AND ... 
weeks ago when "a little light opened up." He would not dis­cuss the matter further. 

'If I had any problems they are
Wanted: 

resolved and we're going ahead," Cohan said. 
R e p o r t e r s , ph o­
"We've kissed and made up," added Finnane. 
tographers, and 
Cohan, 44, the president of Sonic Communications, made
editors. Join 
his first official appearance at the Oakland Coliseum Arena on
the Observer 
Monday, after weekend-long speculation about how the own-
staff. 

PROF. DAVID LINK 
DEAN OF NOTRE DAME'S LAW SCHOOL 
SPEAKS ON 

''HOW TO GET INTO A GOOD LAW SCHOOL'' 
TONIGHT 7:00p.m. at St. Edward's Hall 
ership shift might affect the team. 
"I guess I've been in the busi­ness long enough and I don't try to fix anything that isn't broken," he said. "I try to add to it." 
Perhaps the most notable problem facing Cohan is the replacement of the Warriors' arena, which has been deemed too small. 
The Warriors have explored several options, including the construction of a new arena on the same site or moving the team elsewhere in the area. 
"I really have absolutely no preconceived ideas," Cohan said. "I guess my attitude is I really still do not know all the information and all the op­tions." 
Cohan said he has had no for­mal conversations with the San Francisco Giants, who want to build a new sports complex near downtown San Francisco. The complex could include an arena project as well as a ball­park. 
Cohan, who lives in San Francisco, said his next-door neighbor is Larry Baer, the Giants executive vice president. 
"He sticks his head over the fence and says 'Hey! We're going to do some great things!' and I say, 'Sure, Larry,"' Cohan said. 
Oakland Mayor Elihu Harris, who attended Monday's news conference, said he was certain the Warriors will stay in Oakland. 
"We have a location that's 
proven," Harris said. 
Cohan, dubbed the "Mystery Owner" of the Warriors, admit­ted he was uncomfortable with all the attention. He shook hands with many of the players he had never met as television cameras rolled and flashbulbs flared. 
Cohan said he plans to retain the team's front office and coach Don Nelson. Nelson, also the general manager, has an escape clause in his contract after this year, an option either he or the owner can exercise. 
SAME PLACE 
JN&W~-JACEJ ~"' ":,:_ ~., : -We've Changed! 
r:r'Cany Nil Une oiiWJ.lmey WOf1dpastslr'Have Hard-to-lild 'N.O.S.' Parts [I"Meet Specific Needs ol Car ErtltiJsiasts IW"&w~ Oler Nigt4 Service oo tmstOOied Parts 

.. 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 11, 1994 
• MEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL 


-

Carroll drops winless Sarin, vaults to No. I Grant, O'Neal 
ByTODDRUTH yard run, followed with another tion but they came back with a struggle that you could have Sports Writer two-yarder on the ground start­five yard pass then a seven hoped for. But with two inter­ready to play ed the drive. yard pass to achieve a first ceptions and one fumble recov­
On the frozen tundra of 

Keeping the ball on the down. ery, Fisher couldn't capitalize, 
Associated Press 
Stepan field last Sunday, No. 2 

ground, they ran a quarterback But it doesn't stop there. A having to punt on all three pos­
Carroll took on 12th-ranked 

sneak that fooled everyone. big thirty-five yard pass puts sessions. JACKSONVILLE, Fla.
Sorin. On Carroll's frrst posses­

Running straight up the middle worry into Fisher's face. But on Horace Grant returned tosion, they started their drive then cutting to the sideline, the the very next play Zahm was Alumni 0, St. Ed's 0 practice with the Orlando
with a five-yard run, but Sorin 

quarterback didn't stop until penalized ten yards on a hold­Magic on Monday, although
quickly replied sacking the 

fifty-five yards later in the end­ing call. With both teams in the nega­he's still not ready to play atquarterback for a two yard zone, tying the score at seven. With two more incom­tive in passing, Alumni with -13 full speed. 
loss. But Carroll persisted on 

That would end Sorin's scor­pletions, Zahm faced a third yards and St. Ed's at -7 yards, it Grant, the former Chicago
down the field with a twenty­

ing in the first half and the rest and long situation. On a fake was pretty hard for either of Bulls All-Star who signed with 
two yard pass on the very next 

of the game. But Carroll had to reverse, a receiver to receiver them to get anything started. the Magic as a free agent, is
play. 

answer back on their third pos­pass that is tipped, tipped, and On Alumni's second drive, slowed by a sore groin. He's
Then their running game 

session. yet tipped again, finds the they ran the ball from their among the many injured play­
took over. Eight yards, then Starting on their own thirty­hands of Zahm and also finds ers in camp. 
forty-yard line all the way
five more, and an incomplete 

yard line, they ran the ball for the endzone fifty yards later. down to the four. With fourth Shaquille O'Neal was exam­
pass set up a thirteen yard run three yards, then gave the ball Zahm then failed to convert the down staring them in their ined by team doctors and to put Carroll at Sorin's four­
to, who was now known to the two points. faces, they made a fatal deci­cleared to resume practice
teen yard line. Wasting no 

crowd as "Joe," for ten more Fisher takes over with under sion that would haunt them for when the pain subsides on his
time, they gave the ball to Joe 

yards. a minute left with three straight the rest of the game. injured big toe. He is being fit­
Shehener, freshman tailback, 

The Vermin then ran the ball incompletions. On fourth down Passing up the field goal for ted for a special orthopedic pad 
for a fourteen yard score. With 

all the way into the endzone they are forced to go for it. what might have been the sure in his shoe and may be able to
the point after good, Carroll 

eight plays later, to take a They only get two yards and three points and the lead, practice Wednesday. 
took a 7-0 lead in the first 

seven point lead. 14-7. Zahm took over on downs. Alumni's chosen play would be Grant's injury caused him to 
quarter. 

The second half was a defen­With about forty-eight sec­the pass that would go nowhere miss both practices Sunday,
Would Sorin let their heads 

sive struggle, with the lone onds left, one might think that for an incompletion. That but he managed to work out on
fall, or would they stay off the 

points coming off of Carroll's the scoring would be over with. would cap any drive for every­Monday.
ground? That question was 

twenty yard field goal. Neither But remember that Zahm is one through the rest of the He attributes much of that toanswered on their frrst posses­Carroll or Sorin would threaten coming off of two straight ties. game. the contract hassles during the
sion. Starting on their own 

anymore. A forty-five yard pass would summer that saw the NBA void
thirty-five yard line, a seven-

cap the scoring and the game. With only fifty-nine total his original deal with the Zahm 12, Fisher 0 The score, 12-0 in favor of yards for Alumni, it would have Magic, a federal judge uphold Zahm. been hard for the Dawgs to get 
the league's decision and rmal­

anything started. St. Ed's had
As the fans slowly turned into ly. league approval for a
fifty-one yards on the ground,
Frosty the Snowman, Zahm and With 192 total yards, Zahm rewritten contract. 
but the -7 yards in passing
Fisher kept warm by beating dominated with 108 yards of "All that stuff over the sum­
brought them down to a mea­
each other into the ground. passing and twenty-four on the mer really messed me up as far
ger forty-four all together. 
Late in the fourth quarter. ground. Fisher's fifty-two total as getting in shape," Grant
As each team failed to make 
starting on their own twenty­yards consisted of forty-four on said. "It's hard to get into it
any sort of drive, everyone was five yard line, Zahm began the ground plus eighteen wondering if anyone would mentally when you're won­their drive down field. through the air. score. As the second half dering every day what the Consisting of all passing, their Before the fourth quarter, it wound down, it was evident league or some judge is going drive began with an incomple-was as much of a defensive that the final score would be 0-to do about your contract." 0. 
UN 
~....... ITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Smpmer Epgineering Program Foreign Study in London, England 
INFORMATION MEETING: Tuesday, October 11, 1994 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m.
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special 




RING STUDENTS WELCOME!
Observer ad. 

7:30 TONIGHT!
suBwAY TURKEY 
11th-ranked 

NOTRE DAME 

vs. 
MICHIGAN 
VOLLEYBALL 
JACC Main Arena 
At SUBWAY, we [eel we can ~e a~art o[ your Saturday. 
ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 




'.nn ~ t 
Tuesday, October 11, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

'N~ 1-l\JRL l11ROUG\-\ lo.l-1 11-l<:C:>t-\P~I-I~l'l'SIB\f. D,lo.RI:.I{£5S. 11-1 CC>Sl>\IC. lt.RWS, 'til;: JIR£ S\JB/>.T0\11\IC.. PI\RIICLPS IN 
A. Gl<.t>.l\-1 0~ St>.I'ID C>~ A.N 11'1~\1-1\~ SEK\-\. 
I 

DILBERT 
IF IT GETS PUBLISHE.D THEN 1'\Y GUESSES WILL SEEt'\ MORE VALID THAN 

GUESSES 
OTHER. PEOPLE'S. I'LL 
CHARGE HUGE FE.ES TO SHARE MY ''VISION'' WITH 
AUDIENCES . 

T 
~ 

~--~~~------~--~ ~--~~~~~------~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Mountain of 63 Tastes central Russia 64 "-ofAthens"
1 Son of Abraham 
33 Defense 66 First name in
6 RR stops 
acronym casino 10 Ill-considered 
35 Actress ownership 14 Hajj destination Christine 67 Option word 15 Justice Black 39 Fixed shoes 68 Gentry 16"... and to-41 Emancipates 69 Educator good night" 43 Borgnine's Sullivan 17 Whittles down 10 Noticed
"From Here to Eternity" role 

18 The sun, to the 71 Acted 
44 Pronounced

skin grandmotherly
46 Abstract artist 19 Hera's husband Paul20 Noted baseball 

DOWN
47 Clear, as a tape announcer 49 Loco 1 Mischief-maker 22 Give the boot to 51 Quarterback, 2 Cook quickly 23Actor Ray often 

24 Lustily robust 54 Misplace 26 Cervantes's 56 Compassion --Panza 57 All worked up 30 Improvise 62 Concept 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

3Caldwell's "God's Little 
4 Scored on a serve s Algiers quarter 6 Archeologist's fragment 
7 Harbor helper 8 Author James 9 Horse color 
10 Clinton's home team 34 Hubbubs 
11 Certain Alaskan 36 Dance 12 Kind of fund performed in a 13 Cursory grass skirt 
21 By oneself 37 High schooler 25ls sickly 
38 Sinking-in 26 Malibu sight phrase 27 Neighborhood 
40 Knowledge28 Cartoonist 
42 "Aeneid" queen Thomas 45 Setback

29 Near miss 31 Celebrated 
48Gets up Freud case 50 Cleared 

_,o~=-l)~ 
DIVISION WINNERS 3MILE 
nAVP KPT TJ<'T'T THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
SCOTT ADAMS 

WHY WOULD PEOPLE. PAY HUGE. FEES FOR GUE55ES7 
TREND NU/"\BE.R \ 
ONE. IS THAT 
PEOPLE. AREN'T GETTING ANY 
SMARTER 
L------~~~~----~ 
51 Jazz trumpeter 58 Cairo's river Louis 59 Hawaiian 52 "The Age of seaport Anxiety" poet 60 Spew forth 53 Shock jock 61 Dull routine Howard 
65 Pulp penman 55 Novelist Tillie Buntline 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

"I know you miss the Wainwrights, Bobby, but they were weak and stupid people-and that's why we have wolves and other large predators." 
... 
... 

5:00PM, OCTOBER 13
M UNDERGRAD J. NEWLAND 15:07 W UNDERGRAD E. MELLIFONT 17:58 
M GRADUATE M. SMITH 15:54 w GRADUATE K. BUENTELLO 22:15 
INTERHALL VOLLEYBALL 
M FACISTAFF J. NISSLEY 19:07 w FAdSTAFF M. MAY 25:14 
,CO-REC BASKETBALL 
6MILE 
CAMPUS BADMINTON 
M UNDERGRAD S.IIIGDSMJTii 27:40 W UNDERGRAD M. ScJIROEDER 42:48 
M GRADUATE N.CHAUSSEftED 37:37 wGRADUATE K. FOSTER 42:18 
CoNTACT THE REcSPoRTs 
·-­
SPORTS 
page 20 
• VOLLEYBALL 

Woodstra joins No. 11 Irish as assistant coach 
BY BETSY BAKER 

Sports Writer 
With a 15-1 record at the sea­son's midpoint, the Notre Dame volleyball team has not only achieved historical significance for its program, but also has gained national recognition, shown by it's no. 11 ranking. International recognition can now be added to this list. 
The Irish team has been lucky enough to have join them Sue Woodstra, one of the top vol­leyball players and coaches in the world. Woodstra will be with the Irish program for the remainder of the 1994 season. She comes to the team in re­union with Irish head coach Debbie Brown. 
Brown and Woodstra played together on USC's 1977 AIAW national championship team and the U.S. National team. Woodstra was a member of the 1980 U.S. Olympic team which Brown was a captain, and she captained the 1984 Olympic team which won a silver medal. They also coached together at Arizona State from 1984 to 1988. 
In more recent years, Woodstra was head coach at Pittsburgh and has spent the last year coaching a profession­al team in Germany. There is no double that Woodstra will have a great impact on the already excellent Irish pro­gram, who's 14-1 start in the month of September is the best in Notre Dame history. "Sue has an extensive back­ground has reached the highest level a player can reach," said 
see COACH I page 13 
Tuesday, October 11, 1994 


The Observer/Jake Peters 

Sophomore Jenny Birkner and the Irish are enjoying their best start in team history. 
• INTERHAll fOOTBALL 

Parity reigns supreme in interhall 
Grace wins 
Weasels, 
first game in Slammers 
three years victorious 
ByB.J. HOOD By LARRY VOIGT Sports Wrirer 
Sports Writer 
The game between de­

After suffering their first fending champion Morrissey 
defeat of the season on 
and last place Grace figured 

Thursday, the Purple to be a mismatch, however, 
Weasels of Pasquerilla West in interhall football anything 
rebounded to slip past Farley can happen. This is especial­
on Sunday by a score of 6-0 ly true when turnovers occur 
continuing Farley's winless late in the game. 
record at 0-3-1. Morrissey had the ball with 
The Pasquerilla West a 7-6 lead late in the fourth offense was led by Lanny Le. quarter, but quarterback 
Once the back went in John Polk fumbled and Grace The Observer/Brandon Candura motion, the ball was defensive lineman Troy Brian Perez comes to the line of scrimmage as he led Grace to a victory over Morrissey last Sunday. snapped, and Le secured the Phillips recovered. This put 
ball from quarterback Carrie Grace on the Morrissey thir­Wieneke, she ran straightty-six yard line. After a 
down the throats of Farley's seven yard completion, Grace 
Finest who were unable to quarterback Brian Perez loft­
control the elusive runner. A ed a pass into the arms of re­first down came nearly everyceiver Mike Dwire for a twen­
time she touched the ball. ty-four yard gain. On first 
The second half saw the and goal from the five, tail­
only scoring of the game. On back Ryan Aylward picked up 
the lone touchdown drive of four yards. After no gain on the game, Pasquerilla West a quarterback sneak, Justin 
used Le's talent to drive the Malley nailed a seventeen ball into scoring position. yard field goal to secure a 9­
Costly penalties by the Farley7 Grace victory. defense enabled the Weasel Morrissey controlled the 
to move even closer to justfirst half. On their first drive 
inches within the goal line. of the game, they drove the 
On third and goal,ball down the field and fin­Pasquerilla West performedished with a touchdown pass the sneak perfectly as the 
The Observer/Brian Hardy The Observer/Brian Hardy 
see MEN/ page 16 Knott Freshman Amy Rybak carries the ball. Sophomore tailback Julie Shepard runs for Farley. see WOMEN/ page 17 

ofnote...
MEN'S ACTION ROLLS ON 

4
Carroll climbs to the top of the polls, while 
DAYS UNTIL MIDNIGHT 

Zahm finally scores in Gold division play 
See page 18 
MANIA 





