

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Lyons plans 

1Im best or understanding 
learned a different history that 
run to aid 

justified his actions." Stone said that people today are facing the toughest times in 

scholarship

American history. "Some critics call me 'Oliver 
By DAVE TYLER Stoned,' but don't we all have 
News Editor to be a little stoned to fully sur­vive in modern times?" he 
Lyons Hall will again be sponsoring a "fun run" this

More than any other medium, asked. 
year to benefit the Mara Roseilm is able to give an audience While Stone blames the 

Fox Scholarship, beginning

a deeper understanding of an media for many problems, he 
Saturday November 12, at·ssue, Oliver Stone said last says that film can restore in 

8:30a.m. Speaking before a packed "Most of the power in movies
light. people a sense of optimism. 
The two and one half mile ouse at Stepan Center, the comes from the close-up feeling 
non-competitive run will wind its way around the perimeterenowned director and screen­of pain -a power that makes of campus, and is open to all students and faculty, as well as riter addressed a number of people keep their belief in hu­

opics, from films and other man beings,'' he said. 
the community, said Lyons Hall edia to the significance of his "People are the only hope we co-president, Laura Merritt. 

have," he continued. "If adver­ovies. 
"This run is really special to us (as a dorm),'' said Merritt. "I "If a film is worth its weight, sity is big, then I choose to be­

"t should give you a penetrative lieve that we are greater that think its the best way for us toook into an artistic action that the adversity." 
remember Mara herself, not in :an't give," Stone said. "Other society in the hope of improving elevision or the print media Stone's films often criticize 
light of the accident or the trial, but as the person she 


edia only give a 'first-look' at it. 
was."

Stone's most recent film, While pledges are being ac­wents." 
According to Stone, the media "Natural Born Killers," about two mass murderers and the cepted, Merritt said donationsave served to distort the real­
"ty of modern times. public's fascination with vio­are not mandatory. Raising "America is torn by too many lence, was released this year at money is not the lone goal of a most ironic time. the event, said Merritt. "We're
pinion makers that don't have 
really hoping for a big turnout, sense of responsibility to the "The film began as a satire. 

It was before the Menendez to promote the spirit of theruth," he said. "They think 
hey know better than anyone brothers, before the Babbitts, run," she said. Pledge sheets before Amy Fisher, before Joey are available at South Dining "The media control the events Buttafuoco, before the O.J. Hall. 
our times," he added. Simpson case," he said. "It's In related news, Lyons is "People like Dan Rather, Tom not so much satirical now, but organizing a visit to the site of
Not really, said Stone. Rather, an issue that can be solved eas­
Brokaw, and Peter Jennings reality-based. It's eerily hap­the Douglas Road accident
the movie shows how far soci­ily. Saying 'Let's clean it up' is ive a spin to stories that isn't pening. ety has fallen. a simple reaction to a complex where Fox was killed, The visit 
!ways correct. "'Natural Born Killers shows will coincide with the first
"Violence creates a climate issue."

that we have become desensi­anniversary of Fox's death. 
"There is a sort of 'media where kids have a natural ten­Such criticisms of society
tized to their actions." For more information on the
ysteria.' I wouldn't be sur­dency to be aggressive. It's like stem from Stone's role as a so­rised that if Hitler had won 
But isn't this movie contribut­run, contact Sister Kathleeen
the situation in "Lord of the

ing to society's desensitization? Beatty, rector of Lyons. Her
orld War II, we would've Flies," he said. "Violence is not see STONE I page 4 phone number is 631-6575. 
L-----------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~~--~

Cardoso elected as Women should demand NO's best 

Brazilian President  By THERESA ALEMAN News Writer  Even if the women do not . have need of daycare, the exis­ she said. "Are Notre  Dame  women  
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ News Writer Fernando llenrique Cardoso,  new constitution. DaMatta believes Cardoso is "a rare man, intellectual but not jealous." He feels he has a  To demand the best of Notre Dame is not disloyal. Rather, calling on that which you love to be its best is to show the  tence and quality of a daycare system tells them how the uni­versity perceives women and their roles as primary care­givers of children. Though a  strictly Vice-Presidential mate­rial? Women at Notre Dame are reluctant to pursue the top leadership positions, and are convinced it is their own fault.  
a member of the advisory board of Notre Dame's Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies recently became the new president-elect of Brazil. Cardoso holds an honorary doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame which he received  "very modern and complex view of politics and. is open to the premises of a liberal soci­ety." Cardoso has an enormous degree of international and po­litical experience, enabling him to "be easygoing and to get people to work with him,"  highest loyalty, according to Notre Dame Law School profes­sor, Terry Phelps. Drawing from her own expe­rience of Notre Dame as an un­dergraduate student, graduate student, tenured professor, wife of basketball coach, and moth­er of two Notre Dame women  daycare facility has been estab­lished, said Phelps, further at­tempts at attracting qualified women are needed. "Much has changed in the 21 years since I received my first degree from Notre Dame," said Phelps. "There are more women students and teachers.  For too long, women have al­lowed themselves to become convinced that it is their fault. My second wish is that women go for the top positions and jobs and support each other," she said. Phelps' third wish was that harassment be confronted and  
three years ago during the dedication of the Hesburgh  DaMatta said. Fluent in four languages,  graduates, Phelps addressed the issue of "Women at Notre  Quotas have been lifted for the admission of women as stu­ not accepted. "Harassment is far too preva­ 
Center  for  International  Cardoso  started off in  the  Dame:  Past  Present  and  dents."  lent at Notre Dame, but not just  
Studies.  Keeping up his Notre  Brazilian Congress and then  Future."  "But  the  percentage  of  in the legal sense," continued  
Dame connections, Cardoso also maintains close relation­ships with two Notre Dame fac­ulty members, Roberto DaMatta, professor of anthro­pology and Guillermo O'Donnell, academic director of the Kellogg Institute. A member of the Brazilian Social Democrat party, Cardoso went from only having 8% of the votes in May to winning the election October 3 with 55%. Cardoso expressed his attempt to be a candidate for the whole nation through his campaign symbol, an open hand, accord­ing to DaMatta. In his platform he addressed problems dealing mostly with social policies, such as creating new jobs, improving the poor conditions of people in urban settings, upgrading the educa­tion system and reforming the  moved onto become Secretary of State, before winning his most recent position as presi­dent-elect. ·At this time, Brazil faces many problems such as the dis­tribution of economy, the need for a better educational system, more money for research and culture and an improved health care system, but Cardoso has "strong, honest, well-designed policies and Brazil is mature enough to handle the changes" says DaMatta. DaMatta admits that with all the pressing problems of Brazil, it would take a person with supernatural powers tq improve things, a'r!d although "Cardoso may not be a god, he can make a difference. With him in authority, many things will improve."  Phelps, citing problems with gender equity at Notre Dame, offered a personal wish list for the women of Notre Dame to improve the school. Phelps' first wish was that the community of Notre Dame stu­dents push hard for more women faculty members. "We are lied to when we are told that there is a choice be­tween quality teachers and the gender of teachers," said Phelps. Bringing more women teachers to Notre Dame does not necessitate a lowering of standards, she said. Some reasons Notre Dame might not be able· to attract very many women who are top quality faculty members, said Phelps, are spouse employment placement and daycare for chil­dren.  women faculty members is still far below the national aver­age," she said. "There are more and better women sports teams, but they still do not receive the recognition they deserve. And the real power positions at Notre Dame are, for the most part, restricted to priests, all of whom happen to be men." "What has not changed at Notre Dame?" asked Phelps. Notre Dame is still not yet truly co-educational, though it has made considerable strides to­ward becoming this, said Phelps. "It is still very much a boys school that lets women attend. There are far too few women in leadership positions both ad­ministratively and in terms of student leadership positions,"  Phelps. She said that there is ha­rassment at the dining halls when men make comments about women's body size and desserts. The. dorm notes recently published in The Observer, are harassment, said Phelps. ."Harassment includes any language in that is used in ef­forts to 'keep women in their place.' When 'jokes' are made about women's weight or ap­pearance, they are judged solely on physical beauty. When 'jokes' are made about women's sexual organs, women are reduced to objects of sexuality. These are not jokes and they are not funny. They are far more political than that," said Phelps. see PHELPS I page 4  

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, November 10, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Being an adult means drinking responsibility 
Maybe one of the best methods of remedying a hangover on a Sunday morning-afternoon Js to hotly debate the alcohol policy, alongside room­mates on the couch, with a tall glass of water in one hand and a few 

aspirin in the other. · Meaghan Smith 
The complexities will at 
Assisrant Viewpoint 
least take your aching 
Editor
mind on· the tiny car­
penters in your head. 
It all starts when parents send their chil­dren off to school, assuming that at some point in the next four years, the facets of adult life, such as time management, dealing with stress. deadlines. and the responsible use of alcohol, will sink in. The alcohol issue on campus. then, is the characterization of the responsible Notre Dame drinker. The University isn't fooling itself; du Lac is testi­mony to the administration's awareness of a large portion of the student body's drinking habits. The prevalent concern of administra­tors, rectors, and roommates campus wide seems to center around the fine line between having an accidental bad bout with the bottle and having an intimate relationship with Mr. Jack Daniels. 
Take, for example, what appears to be a typical SYH situation. The purpose of an SYR may not be, although one certainly can include, alcohol consumption. Given the fact that people will be drinking, it is reasonable to assume that some unusual behavior is going to occur. One of the aftershocks of an SYH is dealing with issues of unacceptable behavior and trying, difficult as it may be, to apply and accept university policy. 
Unfortunate offenders often find themselves thinking back to when they were disciplined at home for breaking curfew or otherwise act­ing irresponsibly. Then it was the parents' duty and right to impose rules on their chil­dren to raise them as members of society. No one wants to be told what to do in college, especially if they see themselves as responsi­ble adults. The only problem is acting like one or dealing with the consequences of slip­ping up. 
For minor alcohol offenders, raking leaves for three hours on a sunny fall afternoon is not going to have a great effect on their sub­sequent behavior. In fact, if the incident caus­es the community no great harm, discipline in any form is pointless. People make mis­takes, perhaps get sick, but their own remorse or embarrassment the next day heavily out­weighs trivial disciplinary action. The uncon­trollable behavior of a blooming alcoholic aside, a lot of people go a little beyond their limits and are none the worse for the experi­ence. 
Especially in an SYH setting, students might be given the benefit of the doubt in regards to questionable behavior. If the drinking is con­tained within the dorm, avoiding the issues of drunk driving and assault, then an individual has exhibited reasonable judgment. Surrounded by friends, the student feels safe and may be able to have one more drink than usual. Alcohol abuse is something worthy of concern and University intervention; however, being an adult requires a person to make his/her own decisions and to deal with the consequences of those decisions. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 

• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Liz Foran Michael Hungeling Ethan Hayward Accent Viewpoint Party Carson Carolyn Wilkens Graphics Production Chris Mullins Heather Gibson Sports Tara Grieshop Rian Akey 

• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 
Upper house ratifies Jordan-Israel peace treaty 
AMMAN 

Jordan ratifies treaty
Parliament's upper house ratified 
Parliament's upper house ratified
Jordan's peace treaty with Israel today, 
the peace lreaty with Israel 
despite opposition by some legislators nor­
Wednesday, leaving the door open for further negolioations between Jordan, Israel and the PLO on the
mally loyal to the throne. Thirty-three of 
40 members voted in favor of the treaty, 
repatriation of Palestinians
which ends more than four decades of hos­
displaced in 1967. 
tility between the two neighbors. One member quit the session in protest, and six lawmakers were absent. King Hussein must now issue a royal decree endorsing the treaty for it to become law. He is expected to do so before Thursday, when he makes his first public visit to Israel. The treaty was signed by Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and his Jordanian counter­part, Abdul-S.alam Majali, on Oct. 26. Israel also has signed peace agreements with the Palestine Liberation Organization and Egypt. On Sunday, the elected 80­

Man kills and eats mother 
AKRON 

A man who told police he beat his mother to death and cut out her organs because "she was a vampire devil" has been arrested on a charge of aggravated murder. Henry M. Heepe, 50, was found lying face down in bed Monday night next to pieces of his mother's corpse as some of her body parts bubbled in a pot on the stove, Capt. Paul Callahan said. Heepe is accused of beating his mother to death, stabbing her repeatedly, then removing her organs and possibly eating some of them. Police said their search of the house did not locate all her organs. "I killed my mother," Heepe said, according to a police report. "She was a vampire devil. I cut out both of her hearts. It took her five hours to die." Police found 77­year-old Barbara Heepe dead in a bedroom of the house she shared with her son after getting a call from a neigh­bor who had been unable to reach her. Heepe remained hospitalized for treatment of his diabetes this morning, police said. The neighbor who called police said Heepe often acted oddly. "It's a dirty shame," Mary Hendrickson said. "She took care of her son." Heepe has been unstable since his younger brother committed sui­cide in 1970, police said. 
Inventor defends drug as safe 
LOUISVILLE 

The man most responsible for the drug Prozac testified Wednesday that it is safe, reduces aggression and helps people with depression. He contradicted claims that the drug can cause violent behavior. "I believe it is a safe and effective medicine for treating depression," said Ray Fuller, a biochemist and senior scientist for Eli Lilly & Co., which manufactures Prozac. Fuller testified before Jefferson Circuit Judge John Potter in a lawsuit brought by survivors and family members of victims of Joseph Wesbecker, who plaintiffs claim was driven by the drug to shoot 20 former Standard Gravure co-workers and himself. Wesbecker and eight of the others died. The plaintiffs contend the drug, which affects chemicals in the brain, made Wesbecker violent. Wesbecker was on medical leave for mental illness from the downtown Louisville printing company when he entered the plant Sept. 14, 1989, with an assault rifle. Fuller said repeated studies since the drug's development in 1972 have shown that it helps reduce depression and aggression. Unlike some other antidepressants, Prozac is not fatal in an overdose, Fuller said. The FDA approved the drug for general use in late 1987. 
• INDIANA WEATHER 


member lower house of the Jordanian par­liament ratified the treaty. The Israeli par­liament endorsed it on Oct. 25. Parliament's upper house is appointed by the king and allows him to block and influence legislation passed by the lower house. which includes Muslim fundamentalists and liberals highly critical of the government. Ahmed Obeidat, a former prime minister, walked out of the parliamentary session during the vote, say­ing it failed to adequately address Jordan's water and territorial rights, the status of Jerusalem and the rights of Palestinian refugees living in Jordan. The treaty leaves the door open for further negotiations between Jordan, Israel and the PLO on the repatriation of Palestinians displaced in 1967. Roughly two-thirds of Jordan's 3.9 million people are Palestinian. 
Woman neglects obese pet pig 
NOHFOLK, Va. 
A porker of a pig has gotten pet owner Virginia Hudgins charged with animal neglect. "It's, believe it or not, an obese pig," said Mark Kumpf, the police depart­ment's senior humane officer. Pinkie Starlight is a Vietnamese potbellied pig. Pigs of that breed normally weigh 65 to 100 pounds, but Pinkie tips the scales around 200 pounds. ller belly scrapes tlw ground when she stands, and rolls of fat from her forehead drape over her eyes so she can't see. "I had heard that she was pret­ty big, but when you see a pig of that size it still gets your attention," said animal control officer Christina Hoeske. Ms. Hudgins' disregard of the veterinarian's warnings about the pig's weight constitutes neglect, Kumpf said. Officers on Tuesday lured the pig from the house with a piece of bread and a trail of bread crumbs. The pig has been boarded at a farm to go on a diet. Ms. Hudgins could not be reached for comment; no telephone number is listed for her. If convicted, she faces a maximum of a year in jail and a $2,500 fine on the misdemeanor charge, said Lt. Philip McKeon, administrator of the city's animal protection division. 
South Korean security tightened 
SEOUL 
South Korea has ordered santitation checks of passengers and fumigation of ships and planes arriving from China because of a reported outbreak of plague. Chinese health authorities denied unconfirme.d reports from Beijing that there was plague in western China and that the disease had spread to 216 cities. "There is. no outbreak of such a disease," said a Health Ministry offi­cial, who gave only his surname, Zhang. South Korean officials said they would retain the precautionary mea­sures until the World Health Organization assured them there was no danger. WHO spokesman Thompson Prentice said in Geneva on Wednesday that he was unaware of plague in China. But he said there is normal­ly a delay in reporting such diseases, and China likely would seek laboratory confirmation before notifying his agency. The plague reports in the Korean-language press cited China's official health newspaper, Jiankang Bao. But a Jiankang Bao report Nov. 2 merely warned about the possibility of a plague outbreak. A plague epidemic killed more than 60 people in India in September. 

• Ntmmuu. WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather00 forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 10. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 


Prassure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VJaAss«tsl&dPress 
Tho Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishod Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. ThC' Observer is a member of the Associated Pres1o. All reproduction rights ~rc reserved. 
Atlanta  74  59  Dallas  79  70  New Orleans 81  70  
Baltimore 71  52  Denver  45  30  New York  70  58  
Boston  64  56  Los Angeles 65  53  Philadelphia 68  54  
Chicago  61  47  Miami  86  76  Phoenix  70  48  
Columbus 69  51  Minneapolis 51  36  


Thursday, November 10, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• fACUlTY SUATE 



Ecology is not a religion
Malloy's visit still hot 
Christianity comparaisons


topic of conversation 
'inappropriate'
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE opportunity." Assistant News Editor Senator Mario Borelli, asso­

says Kenney 
ciate professor of mathematics, A response to Father Edward told the Senate that he had 
By CHRIS CORRENTE 
Malloy's Oct. 10th visit was the spoken personally to Williams, 
News Writer 
topic of discussion at last who had told Borelli, in refer­night's Faculty Senate meeting. ence to his (Williams') being 
Ecology cannot be held as re­
According to Senator David asked to resign, "you don't 
ligion, according to V. Paul
Huccio, associate professor of know the half of it." 
Kenney; a professor in the
economics, "I thought there McBrien added that an 
Department of Physics at Notre 
were a number of things that invitation will be extended to Dame.
needed to be said...that didn't Williams to appear before the 
Responding to the belief that 
get said." Ruccio mentioned Senate next semester when 
a new ecological religious
that he overheard other sena­Williams will be on campus. 
vision is required, Kenney said 
tors saying that "certain lies According to a family member, 
that for environmentalists who
got told during that meeting." Williams is currently on sabati­
stress preservation of animal
Senator Jean Porter, associ­cle in South Africa doing· re­
and earth life, Christianity is in­
ate professor of theology, re­search for a book. 
appropriate because it is
sponded to Malloy's claim that Other comments made by the 
"hopelessly patriarchal, hope­
he did not know what assur­Senate concerned Malloy's 
lessly oppressive, hopelessly
ances Father Oliver Williams view of the role of the Faculty 
European, and hopelessly hu­
was given when he was ap­Senate. Senator Kathleen 
manistic in precepts and out­
pointed as Associate Provost. Biddick, associate professor of look."
Williams, who was asked to re­history, said that there was "a 
He continued, "Judea­
sign, was replaced by the mismatch of perceptions of 
Christian belief places humans
Heverend Tim Scully, C.S.C., what Father Malloy wants us to 
at the center of creation and
who was named both Associate do and what we want to do." 
gives them special status. It
Provost and Vice President. According to Biddick, Malloy 
cannot, therefore, be a suitable
Porter said she thought it was sees the Senate as having a 
basis for a reinvented society in 
unusual that Malloy, as "lay pastoral role" that is con­
which species democracy is
President of the University, did cerned with teaching evalua­paramount."
not know what these assur­tions, while the Senate wants 
Kenney added, however, that 
ances were. more of a "political agenda." 
in an Ecological religion,
Ruccio asked, "Why was Porter said that the Senate environmentalism deals with of environmentalism has faded
"Whether the ecologist covets
there a· crisis situation, why has "an effective voice for fac­quantitative concepts and relies and become "last year's news,"
his neighbor's property and/or
was timing of the essence, why· ulty concerns." 
on the use of numbers. clearing the way for other
his spouse is no longer rele­
was this appointment made so "Our role as Faculty Senate In other areas, however, it is issues to rise to the forefront of
vant; provided he is saving
quickly and without consulta­needs to be discussed among primarily seen as a philosophi­media attention, he said. 
whales, restoring wilderness,
tion?" ourselves," Buccio said, and he cal issue or a metaphor for is­
and fighting pollution he can be
Chair of the Faculty Senate, spoke of the Senators having sues affecting society, he said. Kenney has taught at Notre
confident, he can hold his or
the Reverend Richard McBrien, either a "collective or an Physical scientists, however, Dame since 1963 and is cur­
her head high, he is a member
noted that in his meeting with individual voice." 
cannot relate numbers to these rently teaching classes inof the elite elect." 
the Senate on Oct. 1Oth. Malloy According to Senator Randall metaphorical issues. "Energy and Society" and
Through his speech, Kenney
denied there was a crisis situa­Zachman, assistant professor Kenney claimed he feels sym­"Energy and Environment." He
said he hoped to demonstrate
tion. According to McBrien, of theology, "We're being per­how environmentalism is in­pathetic for the environmental has been associated with the 
Malloy labeled Scully's ap­ceived, as George Bush would movement. Once a major con­Kroc Institute for International
terpreted differently among
pointment as one of "personal say, 'outside of the loop'." cern of the media, the novelty Peace Studies since 1983. 
groups. To physical scientists, 




'IME: 

9 month-12 month Leases 
Furnished Apartments, All Utilities Covered, Central Air 
Leasing Now for August 1995 
Make your apartment selection early! 
These apartments will feature the high,efficiency, energy,saving heat pump. 
, 
~ 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, November I 0, 1994 
~~------------------~~--~------------~--~~~~~~~~------------------------------~~ 
Stone 
continued from page 1 
cial commentator that makes his audience rethink certain is­sues. 
"IIis films have a way of wad­ing through the gray areas, !causing) his viewers to ques­tion their sanity, their ability to pass judgment, and most im­portantly, their ability to weed out the fact from the fiction," said Kevin Klau, Ideas and Issues Commissioner for the Student Union Board; which co­sponsored Stone's presentation. 
Stone always had the desire to challenge people's views. 
"Growing up, I always want­ed to be a writer, and after I went to film school, I always wanted to direct what I wrote," he said. "I like to have action with thought, with philosophy." 
Stone served in Vietnam in 1967-68, winning the Purple Heart and the Bronze Star for heroism in combat. His experi­ence there provided the basis for a trilogy of films about the conflict. 
"Platoon," the first in the se­ries, earned the Academy Award for best picture in 1986 for revealing the perspective of the combat soldier during the war. Stone received best direc­tor Oscars for that film as well as for "Born on the Fourth of July," in which Tom Cruise portrayed the emptiness of a soldier returning home. The fi­nal third of the trilogy, "Heaven and Earth," released in 1993, was filmed on location in Vietnam and told the true story of a Vietnamese woman. 
"'Heaven and Earth' is a movie about healing, about transcending anger and ha­tred," he said. 
The 1971 graduate of New York University film school did not rule out the possibility of another film about the conflict. 
'"Heaven and Earth' went one step further, back to Vietnam, then America, then again to Vietnam. What hap­pens next? Is it a closed circle? It doesn't have to be," Stone said. 
Stone's next film, "Noriega," now in production, will trace the life of deposed Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega from his days as a CIA operative to his current life in prison for drug trafficking. 
"This is a fascinating charac­ter. I think there are more gray areas here than the public is aware of, and we'll deal with those areas," he said. "I think he will come out in a different light, partly good, partly bad. But it will hardly be a white­wash of Noriega." 
AI Pacino is cast in the lead role. 
The lecture, titled "Making Political Vision a Reality," was sponsored by the Student Union 
Board,  Office  of  Student  
Activities,  and  Student  
Government.  

Everything you need to close down a crackhouse. 
You aren't helpless when crime down llcense numbers ofstrange cars. Invades your neighborhood. You're They noted the t1mes ofodd behavior. fully capable ofhelping pollee and They worked with each other. They they're ready to show you how. worked with the pollee. A:rmed with 
The Case ofThe Stanton Park field glasses, note pads and telephones, Stand-off. folks kept track ofthe neighborhood. 
When crack moved into a row Within one month, enough· house on a quiet block ofStanton evidence had been gathered. Park In Washington, D.C., folks Pollee moved ln. Crack decided to serve an eviction moved out. 
notice. Citizen participation beat They met with pollee to find crime in D.C. Itcan do the out what they could do to same for you. For more keep drugs out of their success stories, write The neighborhood. McGruff Files, 1 Preven· The cops told them to tion Way, Washington, D.C. keep an eye out-to let 20539-0001. pollee know whenever Pollee become even more 
something suspicious responsive when their happened. They began to people are their partners. notice faces Together we 
!'hey wrote can help.
f!t!'l A m.uacel'rom U\1 Crtm• ..,...,..nuon eo.J1uon. U\1 UB Dep.vunenl ~~ ~~on~~I"Ualii4CouncU Cll9&UNauona.ICnme 


Defense minister accused 
By FREDDY CUEVAS 
Associated Press 
TEGUCIGALPA 
The Supreme Court issued a report Wednesday implicating the nation's defense minister in the kidnappings, tortures and disappearances of suspected leftists during the 1980s. 
The abuse peaked in the early 1980s, when Honduras was a heavy recipient of U.S. military aid as a base for Nicaraguan rebels opposed to the leftist Sandinista National 


Phelps 
continued from page 1 
"When people say 'calm down' or 'learn how to take a joke' they are allowing for the continued and systemic subor­dination of women," said Phelps. 
"Complain, speak up, but do not shut up. Object loudly, strongly, and every time you encounter such language" she said. 
The Bible praises silent women. But the Bible also pra.ses a woman who would not le silent. The same woman for \-\hom this university was namet'. This woman dared to 
Th 
Liberatio~ Front. 

The Honduran military has gradually ceded power under a succession of four elected civil­ian presidents. But the nation has been reluctant to bring offi­cers to trial. 
The high court named Gen. Reinaldo Andio Flores, who is defense minister and said to be a top candidate to replace army chief Luis Alonso Discua when he retires in 1996. 
"Six months of investigations by the Supreme Court indicate that many Hondurans were tor-
question the angel of God, she said. 
"This was a mouthy and courageous woman," she said. "She ultimately agreed to do something very different from the accepted actions of women, bear a child that was not her husband's," said Phelps. 
Years ago, women were not taught to read and write. Women who went against these wishes of this silencing, op­pressive society were beaten, beheaded, burned as witches. Although they are now pro­tected from some violence, such threats as not being "liked" or "popular" or "nice" keep today's women silent, she said. 
"Women are called strident, shrill, bitch, feminist, angry. Or they are told what they have to 



Bernardo's 
Interview Suits & Alterations 
We offer the best quality & best service at the best price in town. We provide the best selection (Perry Ellis, Nino Cerruti, Austin Reed, Bill Blass) for $250-$350. 
Hours: 
M-F 8 a.m.-6 p.m. 
255-8818 

Sat 9 a.m.-3 p.m. Town & Caunrry Shopping Center, 2452 Miracle Lane, Mishawaka, ln. 

t 

The FACULTY Series 
TIMELY TOPICS 
An opportunity to enter into conversation with colleagues on current ethical and religious issues. 
POPULATION: Mter Cairo-Where? 
A conversation with Maura A. Ryan and George S. Howard 
Assistant Professor of Theology Professor of Psychology 
Wednesday, November 16 
4:30 p.m. at The Center for Social Concerns 
Faculty, Professional Staff & Graduate Students Welcome 
Sponsored by: The Department The Center for The Office of ofTheology Social Concerns Ca..rnpus Ministry 
--Light Refreshments will follow -­
I 
==­

.Lr 
lured, mistreated, sexually vio­lated and arbitrarily detained in the 1980s by the 101 st Infantry Brigade ... whose com­mander was the then-Col. Andino Flores," said court spokesman Arnaldo Hernandez. 
Andino Flores had little im­mediate comment, saying only "it will be difficult for me now to become chief of the armed forces of my country." 
Hernandez said the high court was urging lower courts to open trials in the case. 
say is trivial or that they arc overreacting," she said. 
Hecalling when she spoke publicly at Notre Dame on women as priests, she spoke, "not as a theologian, but as an insider, pained by the Church's sexism but willing to fight it out from within." 
To "object loudly and strong­ly" every time injustice is wit­nessed, even if the injustice is in jest, is to demand the best of the community of which we arc a part, according to Phelps. 
Phelps ended with a call to educate and to expect the best of loved ones who can make mistakes, even at Notre Dame and within the Catholic Church, "Educate people and assume they are intelligent, good, and capable of change." 
-

-----~~----------­
Thursday, November 10, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Walter: Time to apply is now 

Glycobiologists hold annual meeting at ND
By KRIST! KOLSKI 
News Writer 
The time has come for all the pre-professional and science majors in their junior year to make the numerous hours with organic chemistry models worthwhile; it is time to start thinking about applying to medical school. 
Applications levels for our na­tions medical schools are at an all-time high of 46,000 for 16,000 positions, said Father Joseph Walter last night at St. Edward's Hall. 
It is therefore imperative that pre-med students make the process as-easy as possible and in a manner that is most beneficial to achieving their goals. · 
Walter, who is Department Chair ,Pre-Professional Studies, cited four basic preparations for students considering a career in medicine. 
First, he proposed that stu­dents should have a well­rounded schedule consisting of classes both in the sciences and in the humanities. It is impor­tant, however, "not to start classes and then drop them," he said. 
Walter also stated that stu­dents should begin to prepare for the MCAT's or DAT's. He recommended prep-courses with Princeton Review or Stanley Kaplan and he also suggested Flowers Books for individual study. 
Additionally, he proposed that students should begin col­lecting faculty and other appraisals during the second semester of their junior year. Walter suggested that students should approach professors who know the student, but he also pointed out that students should not shy away from pro­fes_sors of those extra-large classes. 
Although you might ieellike a number in that 350 person Physics class, "your teacher is probably very familiar with the med-school process and what the admissions committee is looking for," he stated. 
Regarding the admissions process, Walter highlighted some important measures stu­dents should fulfill. The first step consists of the basic appli­cation. He said that "it is important that students get their applications off as soon as possible after June 15." 
"Students should also re­member that 104 of the 126 
medical schools belong to the American College Application Service." 
This service make the appli­cation process less strenuous in . that one application can be sent 
to as many schools as desired. 
Walter also urged students to take the MCAT/DAT in the spring of their junior year so scores are available to the ad­missions committee as early as possible. 
Although the MCAT/DAT is only one part of the admissions process, he stated that "it is beneficial to have a score with­in the 9-11 range, with a possi­ble perfect score of 15, on each of the three parts of the exam.­
When deciding which school to apply, "students generally should apply to all of the public universities in their home state and then a few private schools around the country that are within the range of their scores." 
Walter is available to stu­dents if they have any questions about the long and involved process. 
He has already planned a meeting with all pre-profes­sional students in the final week of January. 



CAMPUS MINISTRY •.• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
FOR WHAT WILL IT PROFIT A PERSON, IF HE OR SHE GAINS THE WHOLE WORLD AND FORFEITS HIS OR HER LIFE? Matthew 16:26 

I really wish that I were not so disillusioned with politicians, or so convinced that most will stop at nothing to achieve the power they so ardently desire. I look at Gov. Pete Wilson, fearful that he has come dangerously close to selling his soul in backing Proposition 187 for politically expedient reasons. I wonder how Ollie North can ease his conscience, given the nearly 20 miHion dollars he spent for a few years ofpublic office. I fail to understand why Mike Buffington of California, already worth 75 million dollars, cannot simply be content to be scandalously wealthy? 
Then I discovered the answer: because they, like you and me, are drug addicts. They are addicted to the same drug that you and I were given when we were very young. The drug is known by many names: success, approval, fame, popularity, acceptance, a desire for attention, recognition, power, applause. Once this drug is ~n your system, you are no more guilty or responsible for your actions than is any drug addict on crack or heroin. 
How do you know ifyou are addicted to the same drug that afflicts our politicians? Simply observe yourself in the course of a day or a week, and think about how many activities you engage in that are not contaminated by the desire for other people's recognition, approval, attention, or your own desire to succeed and to be applauded. Are you ever free from this desire? 
A11d observe the people around you. Is there a single person you know who is free from these worldly feelings? Is there one person who is not controlled by, and hungry for, success and approval, who does not spend every waking minute ofhis/her life consciously or unconsciously seeking these feelings? The danger, however, is that the drug will do us in. In attempting to win, to be recognized, approved of, attempting to gain the world, and in the process, may lose our soul. 
This drug is pervasive in our studies and in our universities. Gone is the understanding of education as a gift, as a chance to excite, stimulate, and expand the mind. We no longer look upon a major as a future vocation through which we contribute to the common good. We want grades; we want a high G.P.A.; we want that degree, then we want that high-paying job. Professors experience it as "th~publish or perish syndrome". Many professors would love to do what professors once did: spend extended time in deep conversation with students about what 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
News Writer 
Renowned professors and sci­entists from around the world will gather for the next two days on the Notre Dame cam­
pus for the 23rd annual meeting of the Society for Glycobiology . 
This annual meeting, held at different locations each 

year. was Subhash Basu 
originated in 1971 as a "sharing of knowl­edge, data and research" 
among experts in the field of glycobiology, according to Professor Subhash Basu, a Notre Dame professor of bio­chemistry, biophysics, and mol­ecular biology. 
The invited speakers will be presenting a total of 140 ab­stracts based on eight topics that focus mainly on macro­molecules, the fields of glyco­pathology and glycobiology, as well as medical aspects of gly­cobiology. The importance of these sessions to the scientific community is the establishment of "new advancement in cancer chemotherapy, inherited brain diseases, and parasite-related diseases" said Professor Basu. 
He added that "this meeting is also beneficial to the Notre Dame community because all the students and graduate stu­dents working in this field, which is a very modern field with all the research in cancer, will have added knowledge be­cause there are world leaders coming to discuss." 
The eight sessions will be held over the next two days at the Center for Continuing Education and will feature lec­tures and discussions with such eminent scientists as Dr. Robert Spiro, a professor from Harvard, as well as Dr. Sen­itiroh Hakomori, a scientist who has published over 500 papers on causes of cancer. 
The conference is sponsored by the Glycobiology Society, the University, as well as several corporations. Professor Basu has been the treasurer of the society for the past four years and is also the chairman of the national Scientific Programming Committee. 
I 

page6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 10, 1994 




It took 23 Irish soccer _P-layers to make this ad. 
Intercollegiate Soccer Association ofAmerica Division I Women's Soccer Final Poll I. Notre Dame 2. North CuoUna 3. Stanford 4. Duke 5. WUUam 1: Mary 6. Connecticut  
7. Portland  
8. Hartford  


See how. This weekend. 
\ 

~~~~~~~~~~ SATURD~AT3:30 ~ 
TOP-RANKED NOTRE DAME 
-vs.­
16th-RANKED GEORGE MASON Alumni Field-behind the Joyce Center WINNER PLAYS FIRST 500 STUDENTS FREE! SUNDAY AT 

CHJIMPIOIVSHIP 
Courtesy of Papa John's Pizza ...___---t 

2:00 --­
~~~~~------~ 


Thursday, November 10, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
13 year old is sixth child to die in minivan fire 

By JOHN HARTZELL suffered third-degree burns Mrs. Willis, her dress afire, Associated Press over 90 percent of his body running from the burning van. Tuesday morning before he was He pulled over, then ran across MILWAUKEE pulled from the blaze. He died the median toward the shouting 
A sixth child died this morn­at Children's Hospital in woman. She tried to climb back ing, one day after a minivan Wauwatosa early today, hospi­into the Voyager, but passers­carrying a minister and his tal spokeswoman Jill Brehm by restrained her. ··She family erupted in flames on the said. told me her six children were in highway. Authorities said de­Five of his siblings,-Peter, 6 the van," he said. "I looked at bris may have punctured its gas weeks, Elizabeth, 3, Hank, 7, the van. It was shocking." tank. Sam, 9, and Joe, 11 -died in­Through the open driver's 
Dwayne "Scott" Willis, and side the 1994 Plymouth side door, Schey said he could his wife, Janet, both 47, were in Voyager. see the minivan was filled with stable condition with burns. Off-duty police officer Toby flames blocking the children's 
Their 13-year-old son, Ben, Schey said he was driving along escape. 
Interstate 94 when he spotted Would-be rescuers beat on 
The Thomas J. White Center on Law & Government and The Robert & Marion Short Chair 
present: 
Professor Michael Perry Howard J. Trienens Chair in Law 
The Morality of Homosexual Conduct: A Response to John Finnis 
Thursday, November lOth 
4:00p.m. 

in the Law School Courtroom 
~=====================================~
r 
WE GUARANTEE YOU WON'T MISS A PUNT, TACKLE, TOUCHDOWN••• 

~--~...--.. fR0\1YOURLOCAI.l.YONNED&OPEMTED ~--~...--..
fl:f!•:•!!t DOMINO'SPIZZA fl:f!•:•)it 
TOPPINGS onions • ga:een pepper • pepperosli• mushrooms • black o&ves • beef ham • cheddar cheese • hotpeppers • sausage • bacon • pineapple

rLA-R-GE, rz-M':Eniii'M,
I 1 topping I I CHEESE I ~OMiN~roa:
I 1 topptng I
I PIZZA I I PIZZAS I 
1$689,__11$799,__11$999--1 
1 Extra Toppings 1 
1 Extra Toppings 1 1 Extra Toppings 1 
$135 I $135 eaeh I 
1 eaeh 1 1 $135 eaeh 1 
I DOMINO'S I I DOMINO'S I I DOMINO'S I I PIZZA I I PIZZA I I PIZZA I 
IValid at participating stores only. Not valid w1th any I IValid at participating stores only. Not valid with any I IValid at participahng stores only. Not valid with any I 
I 
other offer. Pr1ces may vary. Customer pays sates taxother offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax I other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sates tax l wh~re appllca~le. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe I
where appl!Cat?le. Delivery areas limited to ensu_re safe where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensu~e safe drivtng. Our dnvers carry less than $20"". Our drwers driVing. Our drivers cany less than $2000. Our dnvers 
drivmg. Our dnvers cany less than $2QOO. Our drivers
I 1 
e
re not penalized lor ~te deliveries. 1994 South Ben:Jd re not penaliz~ for l~te deliveries. 1994 South Ben:Jd are not penahz~ for l_ate deliveries. 1994 South Ben:Jd za Corp. L1mited T1me Offer. za Corp. Limited T1me Offer. zza Corp. limited T1me Offer.






------E -------=-----­

the windows in an effort to free pierced the gas tank," the youngsters. Iushewitz said. "The gasoline 
"These people were not giv­may have ignited from a spark ing up hope," Schey said. as the piece of metal was being "They were doing whatever dragged." they could." The accident occurred one 
The fire began after the mini­day and about 20 miles from van ran over a 5-by-18-inch another fatal Interstate 94 hollow piece of steel bracketing crash involving children. A 7­for holding mud flaps on trucks, year-old boy died after a five­sheriffs Sgt. David Iushewitz vehicle accident sent metal pip­said. The debris weighed 20 to ing for scaffolding ripping 35 pounds, Lt. Esther Moore through a school bus. said. A dozen other children and 
"Our guess is that the metal three adults were also injured object fell off a truck and Monday. 
Smith case takes toll on investigators, cops 
By CHRIS SULLNAN es and colleagues helped get 
Associated Press them through a case that 
strained them as never before. 

UNION, S.C. Capt. Frank Baldwin, who 
Detectives who worked commands the sheriffs five­
round-the-clock searching for member detective division, said 
Michael and Alex Smith only to investigators clung to hope 
charge their mother with until the last possible second: 
drowning them say the case leaning to look in Susan 
tore down the wall between Smith's car as it was pulled 
personal feelings and profes­from the lake where she 
sional performance. allegedly plunged it with the 
Along with exhausted minis­boys strapped in car seats. 
ters and other counselors, they "We hoped she might have 
need time to rest and recharge. lied" and they would not be 
Finally, they're starting to get there, he said. 
it. He had called his wife, asking 
her to bring him clothes for 

"I feel like I aged 10 years in another overnight stay. 
10 days," said Union County Walking to the intersection 
Sheriff Howard Wells, 42. But near the lake where she'd drop 
he added Wednesday: them off, he said, "That was 
"Everyone was a shoulder for my chance to get my head 
everyone else." screwed back on straight. By 
His deputies were offered myself. I had some tears." 
professional counseling, and all He added: "I reckon in 19 
seem to be doing OK, he said. years I've sort of built up a wall 
Jayne Crisp, who headed the between my personal feelings 
South Carolina Volunteer Crisis and the job. I've had to. You 
Response Team, said officers deal with people's feelings ev­
and clergy bore an extra emo­ery day, their hurt. 
tional burden. "They've oper­"Some things break that wall 
ated heroically," she said. down. When we found out what 
One pastor, the Rev. A. L. happened, when we found 
Brackett, described part of his those kids, it crumbled, that 
schedule: a talk at the local wall." 
school to comfort students, ra-He would later drive the 
boys' bodies to Charleston,
dio and television appearances

including a trip to New York for three hours away, for autop­a network appearance, prayer sies. vigils, and answering a flood of phone calls seeking support. Since the arrest Nov. 3, he 
A message left on his answer­said he's spent extra time with ing machine by a man iri his 6-year-old daughter, "just Louisiana ended in crying. to be with her." Brackett said he tries to return That helps, along with long such calls. talks with his wife. 
"The calls are an encour­"You got to get it off your agement to me. They energize chest," he said. me," he said. Meanwhile, Union is moving 
Sheriff's deputies said spous-on. page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 10, 1994 

Bosnian Serbs debate proclamation of war 
By DUSAN STOJANOVIC 
Associar~d Press 
PALE, Bosnia 
The Bosnian Serb leader, try­ing to rally support for a formal declaration of war, vowed Wednesday to defeat govern­ment forces who have inflicted humiliating losses on his troops. 
"If the Muslims want war, they'll get it," . Radovan Karadzic said as members of a self-proclaimed Bosnian Serb assembly gathered to consider declaring a formal state of war. 
Although Bosnia's war is 2 112 years old, such a declara­tion would allow Bosnian Serb ieaders to impose long prison terms and confiscate the prop­erty of those who fail to respond to a call to arms. 
Karadzic also said he would be given the power to make some decisions without the ap­proval of the assembly, which functions like a parliament for Serbs who have proclaimed their own state within Bosnia. 
The move toward a declara­tion of war reflects Bosnian Serbs' growing isolation and their alarm at recent battlefield defeats. 
Muslim-led government forces, helped in part by their 

Planes bomb Kurdish base, damage unknown 
By ANWAR FARUQI 
Associar~d Pr~ss 
NICOSIA, Cyprus 
Iranian warplanes bombed a Kurdish rebel base in northern Iraq on Wednesday, killing at least one person and wounding three. 
The opposition Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan said a civilian woman was killed and three rebels were wound­
ed.  Its  statement  gave  no  
details of damage.  
Iran's  official  Islamic  

Hepublic News Agency, moni­tored in Cyprus, said its pilots had attacked the "command headquarters, munition depot and center of counterrevolutionaries." 
It was the second Iranian at­tack in three days on Iranian opponents in Iraq. 
The base is in Koi Sanjaq, in a no-fly zone established by the U.S.-Ied allies after the 1991 Persian Gulf War to protect the Kurdish population from Iraqi attacks. 
There was no immediate comment from Washington on Iran's entry into the protected area, which is normally under surveillance of AWACS radar planes. 
The air strike was unlikely to draw Iraqi retaliation because both Iraq and Iran have been fighting Kurdish minorities which have sought autonomy for decades. 
The Iranian Foreign Ministry said Iran was within its rights to counter "terrorism" by any necessary means, !RNA re-
At Washington Hall 
Wt'dnt",d.lv, Novt'ml;t'r J(, I hursday. NoVl'llllwr 17 l·nd.1y, Novt'mber I H "iaturday. Nowmbl'l l'J Sund.1v. No,:embt'r 20 2:311 p.m. 
IZ nnvl'd Sl'ats S7 
Studcnt .md ~l'nior nti7t'll discou11l' arL' av.ulabll' 
Wt"dtlt'\day. Thursd.l} .IIHI Stltl(lay. 
'IIckl"t, ;u't' avadablt' .It thl' door or 111 .Idvanct· .lt the Lal·ortum· Studcnt C:t'ntt'r Ticket ( )tlict'. 
Mastl'rC:ard and Visa orders call (>J1-H12H. 
Kurds under attack 
Iran, Syria and Turkey all oppose the autonomous enclave of more than 3 million Iraqi Kurds that Western allies set up in northern Iraq after the Gulf War. 

ported. 
The raid followed the arrests in Iran on Monday of what IHNA described as "the terror­ist agents of a counterrevolu­tionary team" that intended to plant bombs in western Iran, along the border with Iraq. 
On Sunday, Iran launched a missile attack against a base of the main Iranian opposition group, the Mujahedeen Khalq. The Mujahedeen said there were no casualties in the attack on its Ashraf camp in Iraq, about 40 miles north of Baghdad. IHNA said the attack was to avenge recent sabotage by the Iraq-based opposition. 
Iraq reacted sharply to Sunday's attack, warning that Croat allies, have made un­precedented territorial gains in recent weeks. That has sent tensions soaring, as manifested by gun and mortar exchanges in the capital, Sarajevo, this week that have undermined an already tenuous cease-fire. 
There was heavy sniper lire again Wednesday, and live peo­ple were wounded, four se­riously, hospital officials said. 
The U.N. commander in Bosnia, Lt. Gen. Sir Michael Rose, met separately with Serb and government military lead­ers in an effort to keep the situ­ation in Sarajevo from deterio­rating fcther. 

Bosnia~erbs have enjoyed a weapons superiority throughout the war, but are believed now to be short of fuel. Slobodan Milosevic, president of Serbia, the largest republic in Yugoslavia, cut ties to the Bosnian Serbs and halted sup­plies to them in August to get them to accept an international peace plan. Under the plan, Serbs would be forced to relin­quish about one-third of the 70 percent of Bosnia they hold. 
Bosnian Serbs are outnum­bered 2-1 by allied government and Croat forces and are be­lieved to be suffering low morale aftl'r losing ground in a 
. war they thought had won. Serb lighters at the front ap­peared unimpressed with the political deliberations. "We have been in the state of war since the war started." said Drago Kuljic, a Serb man­ning a post on Mount Trebevic overlooking Sarajevo. "So what's the difference?" As the assembly convened, Bosnian Serbs claimed to have retaken strategic territory around northwestern Bihac in a coun­teroffensive commanded by their army's deputy chief-of­staff, Manojlo Milovanovic. Government forces, in a sur­prise offensive two weeks age 



Aristide takes his first trip 
By DANIEL MOREL Associated Press 
CAP HAITIEN, Haiti 
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide brought his message of reconciliation Wednesday to thousands of cheering support­ers in his first trip out of the capital since returning from ex­ile Oct. 15. 
"Do you want vengeance?" Aristide asked the crowds from behind a line of U.S. soldiers and barbed wire near the dock of Haiti's second-largest city. 
"No!" they roared. Waving small U.S. flags and posters of Aristide, many people waited hours under a midday sun to see their beloved president. Several passed out because of work will be done quickly," said the president, who also met briefly with local business leaders. 

After his speech, Aristide embraced Bishop Francois Gayot, a prominent clergyman who was hostile to Aristide's return. Gayot was among a group of bishops who signed a statement in September saying Haiti would suffer more under the U.S.-led intervention than under the old military regime. 
Aristide, who flew from Port­au-Prince in a U.S. military he­licopter, was ferried back to the national palace by early after­noon. 
Despite the euphoria of his visit, Aristide may find it hard to fulfill his nromisP.s to better the Jives of ordinary Haitians. The Caribbean nation is des­perately poor, and there are reports of continued political violence in rural areas. 
Haitian radio said Wednesday that paramilitary thugs con­tinue to intimidate people in the Artibonite valley north of the capital. 
In Port-au-Prince on Wednesday, U.S. and Haitian soldiers worked side by side placing a roof over a section of one of the city's largest public schools, the Leycee Alexandre Petion. "We're trying to instill the concept of civil affairs work in the Haitian army," said Maj. John Brown, 43, of Kittrell, N.C., a member of the Army's 360th Civil Affairs Brigade 

the heat. "We love you, Titid, we love you," the crowd chanted, using an affectionate nickname for the populist priest, ousted in a 1991 coup and reinstated with the help of thousands of U.S. soldiers sent to help restore his elected government. Aristide also promised the northern town he would build new roads, distribute school supplies and send 20 tons of food to area hospitals. "This  ~'asy'if~t~ Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square 51400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 (219)277-1291  
THE FRANos A. McANANEY CHAIR and THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOUOSM present A Forum on George Marsden's The Soul ofthe American University:From Protestant Establishment to Established Nonbelief featuring PROFFSSOR STANLP/ FISH, DUKE UNIVERSI'IY "Why We Can't All Just Get Along Liberalism and Religious Conviction" responding PETER STEINFELS Welch Visiting Professor ofAmerican Studies GEORGE MARSDEN Francis A. McAnaney Professor ofHistory Hesburgh Libracy Auditorium Friday, November I I, I 994 8:00p.m.  


Thursday, November l0, 1994 

The Observer • ELECTION NEWS page 9 
'Giant killers' win major spots 
By FRED BAYLES 
Associated Press 
A month ago, Michael Flanagan's congressional can­didacy was relegated to such obscurity that his name was a trivia question on a Chicago ra­dio talk show. Earlier this year, George Pataki was an unknown New York state senator facing a national Democratic icon. 
Now the two Republicans are among a group of political giant killers, a group of mostly un­known candidates who have brought down household names like Foley, Cuomo, Richards and Rostenkowski. 
The results were nearly as shocking for some of the victors as they were for the defeated. 
"They're calling me a giant killer. I still can't believe it," said Steve Stockman, a 37­year-old accountant thrust into the national spotlight after his defeat of 21-term Democrat Jack Brooks, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. 
"We've taken out one of the most powerful men in Washington," said Tom Pauken, the Texas Republican Party chairman. "It's the shocker of the year." 
But there were plenty of shocks to go around as the elec­tion dust cleared on Wednesday. 
House Speaker Tom Foley conceded defeat Wednesday afternoon to Republican neo­phyte George Nethercutt, mark­ing the first time in 134 years that a House speaker was denied re-election. Flanagan, a 32-year-old con­tracts attorney who had never run for office, defeated Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, the former chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. I n Kansas, 18-year incumbent Democrat Dan Glickman, chair­man of the House Intelligence Committee, was defeated by conservative state Sen. Todd Tiahrt. Perhaps the biggest upsets came with the Democratic losses of the New York and Texas governorships. 
Mario Cuomo, the spellbind­ing speaker at the 1984 Democratic Convention who dallied with a presidential bid, surrendered his 12-year gov­ernorship to Pataki, the former mayor of Peekskill, N.Y., hardly known to voters a year ago. 
Ann Richards, the plain­speaking Texas politician who came to prominence for her jibes at George Bush, fell to the former president's son, George 
W. Bush. 
"We had a great four years," Richards said. "This is not the end of the world. It is the end of a campaign." 
The reasons for defeat varied. 
Exit polls of Texas voters showed two of Bush's major campaign issues -cracking down on juvenile crime and improving schools -played well. 
In New York, Pataki pledged to cut income tax rates by 25 percent and sign legislation reinstituting the death penalty. He constantly hit Cuomo with a simple theme: "Too liberal for too long." 

In the national races, defeat seemed linked to the notion that the incumbents' ties were closer to the Washington power circle than to the voters they represented back home. 
Rostenkowski, who staved off a primary challenge while un­der the cloud of a federal in­dictment, was a no-show until the last week of the campaign. Brooks' vote for the Clinton crime bill raised the ire of anti­gun control voters in his dis­trict. Foley was labeled a big-government congressman out of touch with the district. Glickman was accused of voting against the wishes of his con­stituency in order to keep his committee chairmanship. 
"Once people realized how often he went against the dis­trict to satisfy his leadership, then they decided to vote him out," his opponent Tiahrt said. Such lessons were not lost on Stockman, as he prepared to take over for Brooks, an incum­bent who he said showed little respect for the voters. 
"I wish him all the best, but I think we need folks more re­sponsive to the district," Stockman said. "I really don't want to become a jerk. So many of these guys get up there and I hope I don't turn out that way. Ifl do, I'll drop out." 

Republicans win big with angry electorate 
By MIKE FEIN SILBER 
Associated Press 

Republican congressional leaders and the Clinton White House struck a tenuous tone of accommodation today after the American people put the Republicans in charge of both the House and Senate for the first time since Eisenhower's day. 
Two years after President Clinton took office, the Democrats were targeted for wholesale repudiation, and to­day the president's top advisers acknowledged he would have to trim his agenda and try to work with the Republicans. 
"We're laying the ground­work for reaching out," said Leon Panetta, the White House chief of staff. Clinton will push legislative themes that already have a foundation of bipartisan support, including deficit reduction, Panetta said. 
The combative Newt Gingrich, a doctrinaire conser­vative sure to be installed as speaker in January, and Bob Dole, the incoming Senate ma­jority leader, will share power with Clinton. They wasted no time opening the new relation­ship. 
In a four-minute phone call this morning, Dole told the president: "I wanted to let you know right up front that we want to work together where we can." 
Gingrich said he saw his new responsibilities as "a very seri­ous and solemn obligation." But he still intends to enforce the strict tenets of his Reaganesque "Contract With America" to reduce taxes and shrink the federal governmen­t's role. 
"There's no reason we can't sit down and have a serious discussion," with the White House about implementing Republican legislative priori­ties, Gingrich said. 
Dole saw the election as nothing less than "a vote of no confidence in the Clinton agen­da." Today, though, Dole said, "We owe him some alle­giance." 
"We will have our disagree­ments, but I want him to know that notwithstanding the fact that he's lost the majority, that we have some responsibility," Dole said. "We know we have an obligation to the American people." 
The president's advisers made the same point. 
"There's a tremendous bur­den now on the Republicans to come up with something re­sponsible," Tony Coelho, a Clinton political adviser, said on CNN today. "There's also a burden on the president to co­operate and try to make things work." 
Besides their historic gains in Congress, the Republicans scored big in state houses. They won 11 governorships now in Democratic hands and easily maintained control in 12 other states. They also won Connecticut, which currently has an independent as gover­nor. All told, the GOP captured a majority of the nation's gu­bernatorial mansions for the first time since 1970. 
In the Senate, Republicans won a 52-48 majority -a gain of eight seats. In one of the closest races, Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein withstood the $27 million challenge of politi­cal neophyte and millionaire Michael Huffington in California. 
Republicans captured 52 pre­viously Democratic House seats while Democrats picked up just four GOP-held seats. All were vacated seats -not a single GOP incumbent lost. 
"We're going to have to de­velop a real close relationship • with the Republican leadership in both the House and Senate ... to see if we can't implement the nation's business," Panetta said today in an interview with The Associated Press. 
Catherine Rudder, executive director of the American Political Science Association and an expert on Congress, recalled that Ronald Reagan could get his program through a Congress which for six of his eight years was under Democratic control, but "Reagan was very popular and Clinton is not." 
In an interview, she foresaw a rancorous session of Congress, frequent Clinton ve­toes and a possible bidding war over a tax cut, despite its impli­cations for the deficit. 
"It is going to be harder to govern, not easier," said Sen. Bob Kerrey, D-Neb., who sur­vived despite his support of a ban on assault weapons. 
Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., said Gingrich had prepared himself for this Republican ascendancy. 
"Newt Gingrich is a very smart man, a very able tacti­cian, and I think everyone puts their cooperation hats on now, including the president, who is left with a veto plan only," Hyde said today in an interview on ABC. 
No longer in charge of the House, Rep. Tom Foley, D­Wash., also fought for survival. If defeated, he would be the first speaker of the House turned out of office since the Civil War. 
Three-term Gov. Mario Cuomo, a liberal icon, fell in New York to George Pataki, a state legislator. Rep. Dan Rostenkowski in Illinois, under a 17-count federal corruption indictment, was done in by an opponent whose name was the subject of a trivia quiz on Chicago radio a few weeks ago. 


IS THE LARGEST 
FUND-RAISER AT NOTRE DAME? 

APPLICATIONS ARE BEING TAKEN FOR EXECUTIVE COORDINATOR 
NOW IS THE TIME TO BECOME INVOLVED: -GIVE YOUR RESUME A SERIOUS UPGRADE -SUPPORT THE NEEDS OF VARIOUS STUDENT 
ORGANIZATIONS IMPROVE YOUR LEADERSHIP SKILLS 
-ASSURE THAT THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT BODY WILL AGAIN BE DRESSED BETTER THAN SPIKE LEE THE NEXT TIME HE TAGS ALONG WIT STANFORD 
APPLICATIONS CAN BE PICKED UP AT THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE IN 31 5 LAFORTUNE 
LATEST DATE FOR CONSIDERATION WILL BE NOV. 21, 1994 AT 4:00PM. 
LEGAL AT LAST! 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY! LARA 
LOVE, 
MOM, DAD & BRIAN 


, ~ 
1 
1 
l 1 
page 10 The Observer· PROPOSITION 187 NEWS Thursday, November 10, 1994 
Judge blocks in part Prop. 187 moves to courts 
measure against aliens 
By SALLY BUZBEE 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
As police braced for protests, a judge today blocked enforce­ment of the part of a bitterly fought California ballot mea­sure that requires illegal immi­grants to be expelled from pub­lic schools. 
San Francisco Superior Court .Judge Stuart Pollack also barred enforcement of Proposition 187's requirement that undocumented immigrants be kicked out of the state's public colleges and universities. 
Pollack noted that the propo­sition, approved Tuesday by nearly 6 in 10 voters, conflicts with a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling requiring states to provide a public education to all residents. 
Attorney General Dan Lungren's office opposed 
• Pollack's restraining order, saying it was unnecessary be­cause the measure would not be enforced immediately. Lungren has said he would fight for the measure to the 
U.S. Supreme Court if neces­sary. 
The ballot measure cuts off education and most health care to illegal immigrants and re­quires teachers and doctors to turn them in. 
With 99 percent of precincts reporting, 59 percent of voters or 4,588, 772 approved the measure and 41 percent or 3,179,548 opposed it. 
A state still recovering from racial rioting three years ago waited edgily for the protests promised by students and llispanic groups. 
Several weeks of large demonstrations against the measure preceded the election. Today, as all available Los Angeles police officers waited on standby, school officials pleaded for students to go to class. 
"We cannot harm California," the Hev. Pedro Villarroya, a Homan Catholic priest, urged an anti-Prop 187 rally. "We cannot harm our­selves." 
Proposition 187 -viewed by various groups as sending a message on racism, taxes, the economy or fairness -was strongly supported by whites and just as strongly opposed by Hispanics. Asian-Americans and blacks both supported the measure, but more narrowly than whites. 
"I feel that this initiative is very racist." said Lucy Castro. 17, a student in the east Los Angeles County city of Gardena. 
But supporters insisted the measure was about fairness and the economy, not race. 
"We are talking about illegal aliens," said Hon Prince, an Orange County businessman who helped write the measure. ''They are a category of crimi­nal, not a category of ethnic group." 
Despite the defeat, some ac­tivists predicted that the vote would be a wake-up call to California's growing Hispanic population, which remains largely disenfranchised. 
"Pete Wilson and the pro-187 forces have done us a favor by getting young people active and involved in an issue," said U.S. Rep. Xavier Becerra, a Democrat who represents a heavily Hispanic district in Los Angeles. "They won't forget this." 
Hispanics will replace whites, currently the largest group of California's 32 million people, as the largest segment of the population sometime shortly after the turn of the century. Hispanics comprise about 29 percent of the population; 54 percent are white. 
Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari harshly criti­cized Proposition 187. "The voices of intolerance have re­turned," Salinas said late Tuesday after the vote. 
Mexican officials and news­papers have portrayed the bal­lot issue as a racist slap at Mexican workers who have worked at low-paying jobs in California for generations. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special ad in the Observer 
SOPHOMORES!!! Get Involved: 
Sign up to be a member of the Sophomore Committee for this year's JPW!!! Sign up at LaFortune Info desk or call Regis at x2695. 
Deadline Fri., Nov. 11 
By SALLY BUZBEE 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Immigration activists swept into court Wednesday. charging that a new law which denies education and most health care to illegal immigrants also vio­lates basic civil rights. 
One judge immediately barred enforcement of the sec­tions of Proposition 187 that would expel undocumented immigrants from California public secondary schools and its public colleges and universi­ties. 
San Francisco Superior Court Judge Stuart Pollak noted that the ballot measure conflicts with a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that requires states to provide a public edu­cation to all residents. 
Voters' endorsement of Proposition 187. closely watched from Washington to Mexico City, touched off small protests in Northern California and focused a glaring spotlight on the center stage immigra­tion now commands in America. The United States, a beacon to migrants for more than a century, now shares the struggles of other nations faced with mass migrations across borders.Proposition 187 sup­porters hope to take their suc­cessful campaign to other states, including Texas. But Hispanic activists insist the racial and economic fears that motivated California voters are unique to this recession-hit state. 
"It's opened up enormous wounds that are going to take a long time to heal," said Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of La Raza, a moderate Hispanic advocacy group in Washington. "Clearly, there are people out there who find the growth of the Latino population in America and in California very threatening." 
But, Munoz added: "Texas and other states don't have the same ty).:a of recession, and the same type of backlash, that California has seen." 

Gary Mounce, a University of Texas-Pan American political scientist, agreed it will be Jess of an issue there: "Those poli­tics of hate or immigrant bash­ing, you find it herll, but I don't think the major politicians are lending any credence to it." 
In this city shaken by racial rioting just three years ago over verdicts in the Rodney King beating case, police braced for student protests. High school and middle school students briefly shut down highways in three Northern California spots early Wednesday. 
Proposition 187 supporters insist their agenda is not racist, but economic, bearing a mes­sage that Californians are fed up with spending scarce state tax dollars on people who don't belong here. 
Republican U.S. Hep. Dana Rohrabacher lashed out at op­ponents of Proposition 187 who complained about the mea­sure's purported racism and called him "a racist skinhead." He said the measure should send a message to poor people worldwide that the United States cannot help everyone. 
"I think the word's going to get out that we will turn this tide in a very kind way, but a very forceful way," Rohrabacher said. 
Gov. Pete Wilson ordered state departments to begin drawing up emergency guide­lines to implement Proposition 187, but cautioned health care and other social service providers to wait for the guide­lines before turning people away. 
Much of the new law was in limbo anyway as civil rights groups rushed into federal and state courts with challenges. At least 10 lawsuits were planned, including two class-action suits by the Los An,geles school dis­trict and the attorney who sue­cessfully argued the 1982 Supreme Court case, which concerned a Texas law that sought to bar undocumented children from that state's schools. 
"They have the right to be educated and the board feels it's unconstitutional on its face," said Patrick Spencer, a school district spokesman. 
Attorney General Dan Lungren's office opposed Pollak's restraining orders, say­ing they were unnecessary because the measure would not be enforced immediately.B u t Pollak said the enforcement period wasn't clear and imple­mentation should be held up until courts can determine 187's legality. !lis orders will be in effect until a hearing he scheduled for Feb. 8, 1995. 
Lungren has promised to sup­port Proposition 187 all the way to the Supreme Court if necessary. 
With all precincts reporting, the measure was approved 59 percent to 41 percent. The vote totals were 4,624,825 in favor and 3,197,409 against. 
Whites strongly supported it and Hispanics just as strongly opposed it. An exit poll taken for The Associated Press and four television networks found that Proposition 187 won over a majority of whites, blacks and Asian-Americans. Hispanics opposed it by more than 2-to-1, and support was similarly low among Democrats and voters younger than 30. T h e 25 percent of Californians who say their financial situations are worse off than two years ago voted 2-to-1 for the propo­sition. 
Immigration has always been controversial. the subject of long standing debates over whether newcomers help or hurt. Sometimes the concern dissipates -just four years ago, for example, Congress ap­proved a large increase in legal immigration with little outcry. 

MAXIMIZING ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE IN GRADUATE SCHOOL A Workshop Using the Insights of Sports Psychology to Help you Achieve Your best performance 
This workshop will focus on techniques for: 
*enhancing/ maintaining concentration 

* 
how to manage/juggle numerous demands on your time 

* 
handling performance anxiety in writing papers, making presentations, and taking comprehensive finals 

* 
dealing with academic setbacks 


* 
improving confidence in your study strategy 

* 
improving your ability to pace yourself in your academic studies *focus your energy more quickly 


Presentation by: 
Dr. Dominic Vachon, Ph.D.  
DATE:  Sunday, November 13, 1994  
TIME:  4:00 p.m.  -5:15 p.m.  
AT:  Fischer O'Hara/Grace Community Center  

Sponsored By: 
The University Counseling Center Campus Ministry Fischer O'Hara/Grace University Village Graduate Student Union 

Refreshments will be provided! 

~--~--­
VIEWPOINT 

Thursday, November 10, 1994 page 11 


~,;;TEN\ YOU VOTE 
REFUBLICAN,AMD NEWT 
WILL. BRIMG CONGRESS 
STANV5TIL.L, ~JAL.
~tuRl1Y WIL.L G~T CUT 
AAO l:,'JEfZ'(ONE-WIL.L OWN 
AN A~SAU~T RlF~E!! 


THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Ed;tor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayrer Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Ed;tor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objecdvely as possible. Unsigned edi­wrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcmaries, lerrers and Inside Columns present rhc views of the authors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saim Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports -_ 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.!@nd.edu General1nformation 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Attack disserves ND character 
Dear Editor: 
Professor Charles Rice, in his Viewpoint editorial col­umn of Nov. 7, has charged that "Notre Dame has substi­tuted for the authority of the Vicar of Christ, the more peremptory authority and criteria of the secular acade­mic establishment," and that Notre Dame is "reluctant to accept the definition of that term [Catholic university] by...the Pope." 
Having joined Notre Dame's faculty recently after twenty-live years service as a professor in two state (i.e., secular) universities, I can say in response to this state­ment that I believe that Professor Rice is mistaken. It may be helpful to consider where his reasoning has gone wrong. 
Professor Rice's logic begins to lapse when he quotes Ex Corde Ecclesiae to the effect that "Catholic the­ologians ... are to be faithful to the magisterium of the Church" ... and then ap­parently concludes that some theologians at Notre Dame are not so faithful. What evi­dence does Professor Rice otTer for this conclusion? Has he sat in theology classes here recently? Has he heard Notre Dame theology profes­sors teaching beliefs as true which have been infallibly condemned as heretical? I think not. lias he heard the strictly orthodox homilies often preached in Sacred Heart Basilica by members of the Theology Department, by the President, yes ... even by the Provost (at the Mass opening the Academic Year)? If he has, he shows little sign of it in his column. 
•.·._JoOfiEEbURY 
A Catholic theology faculty, while it has the fiduciary re­sponsibility to transmit the essentials of Catholic Christian belief, also has the obligation (as the Second Vatican Council makes abun­dantly clear) to seek the meaning, the expression, and the application of that belief in our time and place. In fact, this is the primary point that Ex Corde Ecclesiae makes. Professor Rice would do well to respect the meaning of the whole document and not just choose paragraphs from it 
'ACatholic theology 
faculty... also has the obligation... to seek the meaning, the expression, and the application of that belief in our time and place.' 
which support his view. The document is available through computer, inciden­tally; on the Internet world wide web home page of the Notre Dame Department of Theology. 
On matters which have not received infallible definition (i.e., most religious matters), the search for the meaning of the Catholic faith will necessarily involve a contro­versial, adversarial process. To suggest, as Professor Rice seems to do, that questions concerning this search be resolved simply by an, edict from Rome is to suggest that a Catholic university should not properly engage in theo­logical reflection, but should merely hand its students a copy of the catechism and es­chew any contemporary wis­dom that it may have to otTer about the meaning and prac­tice of the Christian faith. 
Not only does Professor Rice seem to assume that some Notre Dame theolo­gians are not teaching what the magisterium teaches, but he further assumes that the presence of such teaching is the sole test of what makes a university Catholic. He seems to overlook the pervasive sacramental prayer life fos­tered on this campus. He seems to overlook the pres­ence of a large number of men and women religious, as well as laity, who give pas­toral care to Notre Dame stu­dents, faculty and staff. He seems to overlook the efforts that Provost O'Meara has made to assure that faculty who profess themselves as Catholic are given serious consideration in the academ­ic appointment process. He seems to overlook the strong commitment to social justice exemplified in many of Notre Dame's research and service activities. In short, he over­simplifies what it means to be a Catholic university. 
I know that Notre Dame may not be what it used to be...and I know that it is not yet all that it has the poten­tial to become. One thing is clear, however, Notre Dame is truly a Catholic university. ..and for that I thank God! 
ROBERT BARGER 
Adjunct Instructor Department ofComputer Applications 

Random IJook-ups>reveal m(lle:female relations 
... . . .·....··'+&::·:> = ...... =· . ·. .. ..:.::···· ···v:~:=· =, ..· 
Dear Editor: 

I (1.11}. wdting i,9 -l"~spons~ to t~~ Fn~s~ T)lough!s t;olu~ll entitled "J?I?.f\r Get fl room! which appeat(;ld • hi tq¢ Nov: 7 edition ·of The Observer. I agree wholeheartedly with the author'$ contention that pu~lic dis~lays of.affection are··unnec~ssary .l\nd nau~eating. Ilo~~wet\ lhave pf:oblem~.with t}le phra$eology l.lsed in; the first
paragraph of the arti,cle; · x · · · •· · -.-... · The author uses_ the following phrase in the rrrst paragraph: "With lo,ng-term _relationsllips bel,ng the accepted norm.•." I would like to know, ju~twhat imaginary campus the author· is liVing on,•-Gtantedl have resided at Notre Dame for less than three months, but it seems o~vious to me that. rando~ hook~ups, not Jong-tetm relationships, ~;trethe ac~j}ptecl norm for 111ale-fema,le .relations. .._·__··. · · One neeci only listen to Monday morning conversation an}Where on campus for proof of this. With regard to relationships, the most com­monly .asked _qu~st~on is not ''Did you find_somepne this weekend with w~o~ you would like to· develop a long~termrelationship?", but rather D1d you hook-up this weekend?" · TP,.~ aut}l.?J.' also usestheph.rlJ.se: "innocent hook-ups." The jux~apositi(.ln of ''~nn:ocent'' ·and "}look~ups~ clea~ly shows either a lack of_Uter~ty conc.entration or a lack of moral character. What may I ask, IS so mnocent about o11e Notre Da.rne studellt USING another stpdent as ~11 outletfor h~er se~al desires? Thi~. is of c{lurse what m~ny, nay, most. hook-u~s amount to. According to the prevailing philosophy one need not hke, or for that matter even know. the per­~OJ1 bels1le. i~ hooking up wjt)l., RatP.er, ~he Jmly qualificatio,nJs physi­
cal attractton. · ,,. . ·•·-• · · ·· · · ·.-·· • ·· 
That a solely physical r~lationship is not "innocent" but rather ll..ar~l. seems o~vipus. RRJ1dom h9ok·upsignore people~s emotional a11~ spiri~L dimensions;.· ):la,ndo~ hook·4Pfi condone the misgtticied 
notion thal the sole purpose of the opposite sex is to proVide sexual 
pleasure. . _ . · · . -~~ t~* seijl;e~ <lt\(' who complQ.ins about .flte offensiveness of t)ll) now~infamous Alumni and•Carrol•Htill notes and then proceeds to ran~omlyhook-up is servi,ng asa model ofhypocrisy. Howcould the 
sa~~.N~~rf:l.Pame .~owan \Yll() .compl~llS. tll.at -~e 1_\lumni a.pd Carrol no~es ;eth,1~~ wom~n, to ~e'i)'!lal objf!(rts cp~jo~sly c()ndonejUt$tsucP. an attitude ~Y participatmg :m a random hook~up? ·· .. 
CJ~~~l)' tq~;~ sexlsxn and Jhe prevalence_ ()f random hook~ups_ that ~9lJlj:ua~e.l,llal~,fexnale tel~tiopship§ on ~ c;:tmpJ!~ go han~ in haqd. ~tit until students learn t() apprecia,te not only the,.,physicat but also the emotional and spiritual beauty .of other studentswlll sexism die. 
• rgpt11ntil st11d,~.~t~Je!lr,n to. foll?W their hearts and minds rat}ler thali their hormones will healthy .relationships form. Not until stu­dents leatn to value meaningful, l;ite-night conversation over mean­ingles~, la~~ night ~llshing willa truly "inn9cent'' relationship pros­
·· · · ·· ---· · · ·-·· ···per. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
ERIC GIOVANNI 
Freshman 
Morrissey Hall 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
''Going to church doesn't 
make you a Christian anymore than going to the garage makes you a car." 
-Dr. Laurence Peter 

,~ 
1 
1 
VIEWPOINT

page 12 Thursday, November 10, 1994 
• I, FARRINGTON 

Acid trip takes a turn to Catholicism via the clinic 

This column is picking up steam, there's no doubt about it. More stu­dents are reading it all the time. Three of you even responded to last week's IQ test! But one question keeps coming up. I keep referring to myself as a Jew, and at other times I boast of my Catholicism. Which is it? Well, Hall began one day in 1986, in my freshman year at Hutgers University. 
Now this is a true story. I AM NOT BEING FACETIOUS. There were a few people in my dorm whom I had gone to high school with, druggies all, who like me had only made it into Hutgers via Livingston, a school officially designated as the University's point of entry for minorities. Now, the last time I looked, lazy oafs who fail everything but English and llistory are not a minority, so you can imagine how lucky I was to get in there. Thank God for the SATs. Anyway, Rex and Hoy (not their real names) brought back from the show a plastic bag filled with what I recognized as blotter paper-thin, absorbent sheets that are dipped in LSD and c.ut into squares, and then decorated. These, as I remember, had Bill the Cat on them. They looked harmless. Why not take one? I did. Not much effect. Better take another. 
An hour later, I had entered another dimension. I lived in an Engineering house, and these studious types are absolutely the worst people to be around when tripping. "flow does it feel?" they asked, pointing a microphone at me. "When's it going to stop?!" was my fran­tic reply. Colors began to bleed; my pulse quickened as hot and cold flashes came and went; the soothing music of home I had put on-side two of The Wild. The Innocent, and the E Street Shuffle-now became menacing, eerie, torturously atmospheric. The next thing I knew, the R.A., a Gandhilike Indian, was sitting in my room, listening patiently to my story. Then the Dean of Students was there; then cops; then, to my horror, ambulance guys. I was not hallucinating at this point; I had merely dissolved my sense of time into a kind of 
Josh Ozersky 

chemical eternity. The University had decided to escort me to someplace where I might return. 
Soon enough I was hallucinating, and hallucinating in the back of an ambu­lance at that. Everyone's face kept pulsing and seething. Talk about dis­concerting! I was being led around like a toy balloon, a wide-eyed, sweating spectacle, and I couldn't think straight for two seconds altogether. Ten hours after it started, I was sober in a bright cold Emergency Boom at Middlesex 
• Oun TuRN 
The time to heal has come, as has the time to forgive 
My Freshman Seminar class really came through last week. We began a seetion on Christian Non-Violenee and I thought it would be good to begin by dis­cussing anger and forgiveness. I asked them to think of someone they were really angry at, someone they truly did not like. They are a reflective group, so they were quiet for a minute. Then they began to smile as they thought of the people they variously disliked. 
I put an empty chair in front of the class and asked one student to come up and talk to the chair as though it held 
Joe Ross 
the person he didn't like. lie was bril­liant. lie put his hands on his hips, looked right into the seat of the chair, drcled it and let the chair have it. " You think you are so cool. You think you know everything about sports. You watch games on TV and act like you know just what every team ought to do. Then you talk to us freshmen, as though we are idiots. You try to give us all this advice on how to get along at Notre Dame, how to fool teachers, how to approach girls and really, you never lis­ten to anyone. You don't consider what anyone else has to say. You don't seem to value what r think. In fact, you put down my opinion whenever I voice it. You're really a jerk." The class sat dumbfounded. Then he broke into a smile and kicked the chair. "You're a jerk!" The whole class laughed. I couldn't have staged it better if I'd worked with him for a week. 
lie sat down and I asked if anyone else would like to talk to or tell us about a person they disliked. One woman looked like she was going to say some­thing so I asked her: "Who are you thinking about?" She smiled, her face reddened and said: "I haven't thought about her in so long. I can't believe how mad I'm getting just thinking about her." I asked her if she wanted to tell us about her. "She's so petty, so judging. I knew her in high school and she really hurt one of my friends. God, I can't be­lieve how strongly I feel this." She was angry. 
We went on to talk about anger, hurt and forgiveness. The more we hold in anger, the more we try to ignore it, the more powerful it becomes. It might lie dormant inside us, but it never goes away until we forgive. 
Both of these Freshman Seminar stu­dents showed this to be true. They even surprised themselves at how potent was the anger and hurt they 
experienced. They had not dealt with it. And because they hadn't dealt with it, it had more power over them than they knew. 
What have we forgotten? I fear we have forgotten that healing has certain requirements. If we want to be healed, that is, to be free from the various angers inside each of us, we have to first be honest about our anger. For many of us, anger is just the lid sitting on top of hurt. We have to be able to say, if not to the person we're angry at, at least to ourselves: "I am hurt. What you did hurt me." It's crucial to own our anger and our pain. 
Second, we must forgive. We don't always have to forgive in person, but we do have to say it to ourselves, practice it, out loud, maybe over and over. "I for­give you. I don't need to be angry with you anymore. I forgive you. I forgive you. I forgive you." 
Often forgiveness is hard because we don't think the other has owned up to what she did. "Why should I forgive when he doesn't even think he did any­thing wrong?" Perhaps we need to ask ourselves the question: "Why do I need the other person to be remorseful?" We need to forgive because anger and hurt only hurt the bearer. If I'.m angry and hurt by someone and I hang onto it for a month, a year, a lifetime, it only hurts me. I become harder, meaner, more judging. I might be right. But I'm angry and right, hurt and right. The only real path to healing is forgiveness. 
County General Hospital. 
I haven't been back since, but it served a purpose. A fellow like me, who lives by his wits, can't afford to be turned into a babbling hysteric. Who knew if I had fried my brain? I prayed and prayed to get my brain back, and eventually I stumbled into the Hutgers Catholic Center, and announced my in­tention to convert. 
Why the Catholic Center? Well, the idea had been brewing in my head since I had read Dante in my days as a child prodigy. My trip was reminiscent enough of hell; it made moral sense to see about converting. The Catholics claimed to have a place for everything, an answer for everything, and plus they could guarantee that you wouldn't go to hell, always a big bonus for those in doubt. 
There was never any question about becoming a Protestant. Who converts to Protestantism? If you're going to buy into Christianity, it's obviously going to be the Church Christ founded, not some modern institution founded by German anti-semites. But there's a question: why not the religion of my own people? Why not Judaism? None of that horrible singing, no gory crucifixes, no bizarre icons or pious mantras. There are an insane number of rules and laws and regulations, but it is easy enough to lind a temple that dispenses with those. But there was never any question of that, either. 
I felt the pull; the Church was so attractive. They had these preists at Rutgers, Dominicans, ultra hip, and they seemed to know everything in the world. Every noxious doctrine I could think of I confronted them with, and they had a satisfying answer. One thing led to an­other, and the next thing I knew I was baptized as a Catholic. Little did I real­ized that their liberal, enlightened Catholicism, like their absorbing, mean­ingful homilies, were far from typical of the Church as a whole. 

I found that out in the years to come, 
'standing there in one dark, creepy Catholic Church after another, alienated as all get-out, and skipping weeks at a time. Worse yet, all the other Jews thought I was an apostate. Whieh I am, I guess, but where do they get off calling me an apostate? Most Jews I know are atheists, or at lPa-;t agnostics. At least I believe in God, although I'm not so crazy about the prophets. Still, though. I understand why they are so revolted by my conversion. Ami I understand thl:t I will never be completely at ease with other Catholics. 
And I'm not so convinced that the 
Church has all the answers anymore, 
either. My days of reading Chesterton 
and F.J. Sheed and writing "so true!" in 
the margin are flown. But I am a good 
Catholic now, more or less. What's a 
few pogroms between friends? No, but 
seriously. If you have any questions, 
feel free to contact me at joshua.a.ozer­
sky.l@nd.edu. Really. Why not? 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. 


Vengeance never leads to healing.  Even  
justice might not lead to healing.  Only  
forgiveness will.  

If we know anything from the life of Jesus, we know this is true. Think of Jesus with the adulterous woman, caught by that self-righteous crowd. They were right. She should have been stoned. But Jesus would have none of it. Think of Jesus insisting that we forgive 70 x 7 times. He was simply a great psychologist. He knew forgiveness was the only human path to healing. Think of Jesus refusing the sword in his own defense and allowing himself to go with those who would kill him. They had no right to take him. Think of Jesus' para­ble of the Prodigal Son who returned home to a banquet thrown by his father. His older brother was right. But Jesus knew an attitude like his would never be healed. Think of Jesus on the cross, for­giving those who were killing him. There's no more powerful example of the necessity of forgiveness, even when one is being wronged -especially when one is being wronged. 
Who do we need to forgive? Against whom are we holding anger? A parent? A brother or sister? A friend who hurt 

us? A girlfriend or boyfriend? 
Ourselves? God? The Church? Who do we need to forgive? 
Forgiveness is hard. We tend to think of it in the syrupy terms that grade school Bible stories gave us. But for­giveness is for the strong. It's tough. It requires discipline and humility. 
I can't help this week but think of the trial in South Bend regarding the death of Mara Fox. There's nothing worse than the sadness and emptiness of los­ing a friend, a student, a daughter. Those are pains that don't easily go away. But the one thing we know as Christians, is that our healing will only come with forgiveness. It's human to be sad and angry at anyone's death. But the time has come to forgive. If we want to heal, if we want to be whole again, forgiveness is the only way. There is no other path. 
Joe Ross, C.S.C. is an instructor of Freshman Seminar. He is also rector of Morrissey Hall. Our Turn is a weekly, rotating column concerning Catholic Character at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
----------~-~ 
•
ACCENT 

Thurday, November I 0, 1994 page 13 
Toad the Wet Spl"ocket l"etV\1"1'\S to Notl"e Dame 

By ROB ADAMS Music Critic 
History does repeat itself. About four years after a little­known band with a funny name played in the tiny LaFortune Ballroom, Toad the Wet Sprocket returns to Notre Dame tonight to play the Stepan Center in what has become a true success story. 
With four albums now under their belt, Toad the Wet Sprocket has an established name and worldwide appeal, the result of non-stop touring. 
Dean Dinning (bass, backing vocals, keyboards), Randy Guss (drums), Todd Nichols (guitar, vocals). and Glen Phillips (vocals, guitar, keyboards) be­gan as Toad the Wet Sprocket, taking the name from an ob­scure Monty Python skit, nine years ago as teenagers playing in their Santa Barbara garages. Doing shows in local clubs and bars gained them an avid fol­lowing before they had even hit the legal drinking age. , 
Toad recorded Bread and Circus for a measly $650 on a 16-track home studio, sold it from local record stores and during gigs. They then used the money to finance their sec­ond album, Pale. 

Columbia Records was inter­ested in what they heard, and agreed to release both albums in their original state, which is why the two albums are linked together so often and are actu­ally sometimes erroneously re­ferred to as Toad's double al­bum. 
Bread and Circus is an ex­tremely raw piece of work. With Phillips' vocals sounding much like moans and hums, he became the focal point of their music and remains that today, although not as palpably. 
"I fear nothing/Besides my­sell/Please don't touch me/Love like an infant trying to stand up," sings Phillips on "Torn," Pale's cold opening track. Toad's second album was a bit more psychedelic and experi­mental than their first; the lyrics were more abstract. 
No one was prepared, how­ever, for the grand reception that fear received. As a result of their opening up for the likes of Deborah Harry, Michael Penn, and the B-52's sales of Toad's third album surpassed 100,000. 
"We were just stoked that we'd sold 100,00 copies of fear from being on the road...we were thinking 'This is great! 

Final rehearsal PrePares the cast of ~~A Ooll·s House•• for OPenine nieht 
BY JENNIFER LEWIS 
Accent Writer 
The actors have made their finishing touches and all the last minute plans have been made, but there is no avoiding the anticipation of opening night. Saint Mary's College department of Communication, Dance and Theater, presents the recreation of I lenrik Ibsen's "A Doll's House," translated by Eva Le Gallienne, tonight in Monroe's Little Theater at 8 p.m. 
Director Katie Sullivan decid­ed to produce her ninth play, "A Doll's !louse," because of the relevance it has in today's society, even though it is one hundred and fifteen years old. 
"I thought it would be a nice end to the sesquicentennial theme of, Honoring tradition and pioneering change," ~u'livan said. 
It is au <tppropriate play to be performed at an all women's college, according to Sullivan. One of the play's main themes is female independence. Ibsen acknowledges a controversial question of his time, "ls being someone's wife enough of an identity?" He also suggests that a husband can be a victim of narrow minded thinking. The play expands on both of these conflicts. 
"Unfortunately, I think, we still have not resolved many of these conflicts that are present­ed in the play," Sullivan said. 
Ibsen is famous for being the father of modern drama. His play was the first to acknowl­edge a woman leaving her hus­band and children, which was highly looked down upon in the 1870's. In fact, when Ibsen released his play, his publishers changed the ending to what they thought would be a "happy ending." Contrary to the pub­lishers' opinions, Ibsen stayed with his original ending. 

The cast consists of five Saint Mary's students and three Notre Dame men: Michele Avalos, Kristen Dakewicz, Kathryn O'Donnell, Amy :ochato, Melissa Yonnkin, Ada.;· Hicks, Mich:.el Lamena, and Wiliic LaJoie. 
These students have been practicing five times a week, for six weeks, up to four hours a day. 
"Between rehearsing and practicing on my own I put in about forty hours a week," said Carroll Hall senior Lamena. 
"If acting is your passion, it's not work" said LeMans junior O'Donnell. "Acting is my pas­sion." 
Lamena started his acting career during his junior year in college after being inspired, while taking Shakespearean Literature. class. In A Doll's House, he plays the role of a condescending husband named Tovald Helmer, who is caught up on appearance, according to Lamena. 
"Helmer is a really complicat­ing man that is a product of his society," said Lamena. "He will not sacrifice his honor for the sake of love." 
Sullivan has been teaching the novel in her Dramatic liter­ature class for years. She has observed numerous students taking interest in Ibsen's char­acters and conflicts and is extremely excited about the plays end results. 
''I'm enjoying this play because it lets Ibsen's play, which is frequently read, come to life," said O'Donnell. 
The play will run throughout the weekend at 8 p.m. and on Sunday afternoon at 2:30 p.m. Tickets are available at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium which is open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday though Friday. The ticket prices are $8 for adults, $6 for Senior citizens and groups, $4 for members of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community, and $3 for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame stu­dents. 
We're gonna do it the way we want to," said Dinning. 
Everything broke loose, how­ever, after the third single, "All I want" was added to national radio air play lists and went top 
40. The album went platinum and Toad played 27 5 dates in North America and Europe in 18 months. 
Although not altogether bad, fear did not end up exactly how the band members wanted it; they fell victim to overproducing. They kept that dissatisfaction in mind as they began recording for Dulcinea, a reference to the Don Quixote love who doesn't turn out to be as perfect as the protagonist foresees her. 
"The thought I hold to is that Dulcinea represents an ideal of perfection that does not exist," says Denning, "but we keep try­ing to reach that ideal and that's when the music hap­pens." 
Mixing the gloom that has been consistent in Toad's past albums as well as the humor that they use to poke fun at their own seriousness works well on the new release. Another combination which proves Dulcinea to be their strongest work yet is the raw, live sound that they achieved on their first two albums with the polished production that fear had. Fuzzy guitar sequences mesh with dramatic loops of keyboards, yet do not take away from the intensity of Phillips' emotions. 
Toad the Wet Sprocket is a band that loves to play live and should not disappoint. After some 1,000 gigs, their nine­year old bond will become ap­parent in tonight's return. 
''I've been wanting to hear them in concert for years, so I think it'll be well-worth the wait," Bridget Biggs, Cavanaugh Hall junior and Toad superfan said. 

Choir concert offers multicultural music 
By MOYA SOMERSET Accent Writer 
The Fall Choral Concert by the Saint Mary's College Women's Choir and the Saint Mary's-Notre Dame Collegiate Choir led by conductor Nancy Menk is tonight at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The Women's Choir section of the concert is divided into three sections, explained Menk. The sacred section by modern composers begins with a "Missa Breves" and "Pie Jesu" which are two Latin texts that are published by the Saint Mary's College Choral Series followed by the second performance of "The Magnificat" since its world premiere on October 14, 1994. 
"Modern music offers chal­lenging harmonies and melodies that aren't often found in traditional sacred pieces. In terms of 'The Magnificat' by Larsen, we had the opportunity to directly work with the creative vision of the composer." Senior Nicole Cioper said. 
The second section features 
"Hotaru Koi" and "Kashiri" 
which are Japanese and 
Korean pieces. "We are trying 
to place more emphasis on 
performing multi-cultural 
music," Menk stated. 
At the 1993 World 
Symposium on Choral Music 
in Vancouver, British 
Columbia Menk heard 
"Kashiri" performed by the 
Seoul Ladies' Choir. Menk, 
also the editor of the Saint 
Mary's Choral Series, realized 
the piece had not been pub­
lished. She negotiated with 
composer Tae Kun Ham to 
publish the traditional Korean lyric poem to the Choral Series. 

"It is good that we are exposed and are exposing oth­ers to the Asian cultures through music. 'Hotaru Koi' and 'Kashiri' pose challenges that we normally don't encounter in our pieces with Latin or Italian texts." senior Music major Melissa Peters said. 
The last two pieces cele­brate the college. "Spirits Taking Flight" was commis­sioned for the Sesquicentennial. The music was composed by music pro­fessor Zae Munn and the lyrics were written by English professor Theodore Billy and Saint Mary's graduate Therese Johnson. The final piece is "The Belles of Saint Mary's." 
The Collegiate Choir will perform "Jubilate Deo" by Laszlo Halmos, "...A11d Sparrows Everywhere" by Libby Larsen and "Te Deum, 
K. 141" by Mozart. 
Libby Larsen worked with the Collegiate Choir when she was the composer-in-resi­dence in early October. "She gave me a better perspective on ' ...And Sparrows Everywhere' because it is three different poems that are in three separate movements," senior Jeanne Schloegel said. 
The Collegiate Choir expanded it's repertoire to include a classical Mozart arrangement. Senior Nancy Strzelecki said, "I think it is a difficult piece. I think the com­plexity adds to the challenge of 'Te Deum,' but I think we've done a good job in such a limited time." 
-

-
---------------·--~-----------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 1 0, 1994 

•

Nets hold off Bulls for II0-I 09 WID 
The victory in their home scored seven straight points for tie or win. Pippen, who led the free throws with two seconds to By TOM CANAVAN opener was the Nets' first in the the Bulls in a 13-3 run with Bulls with 28 points, missed a play. Associated Press season after three losses under Toni Kukoc eventually tying the drive with seven seconds to go, Kukoc hit a 3-pointer at the 
new coach Butch Beard. game at 106 by putting in the but Benjamin fell out of bounds buzzer to close out the scoring. EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. It also spoiled a great game­rebound of Will Perdue's follow after stepping on Pippen, who Derrick Coleman added 19 
Kenny Anderson hit a game­ending rally by the Bulls, who with 23 seconds to play. was on the floor. points and 10 rebounds. while winning jumper with 17 sec­appeared out of it after Benoit New Jersey immediately took Off the ensuing inbounds Anderson had 15 and 11 as­onds to play as the New Jersey Benjamin, who had 22 points, the ball upcourt and Anderson play, Kerr's 3-point attempt sists. New Jersey, which came Nets blew a late 10-point lead hit a basket inside to give New got away from Steve Kerr near from the right corner bounced into the game with the NBA's but came back to defeat the Jersey a 103-93 lead with 3:27 the foul line and hit a jumper to off the rim. worst shooting percentage, 37 Chicago Bulls 110-109 to play. put the Nets ahead. Benjamin was fouled going percent. shot 53 percent from Wednesday night. However, Scottie Pippen Chicago had two chances to for the rebound and sank two the field. 
Thompson and Manthei are this season. perienced unit. Guerin scored both confident that Notre Dame "Nikole (Neidlinger) has im­three touchdowns on intercep­
Irish 0-C 

is ready to begin NCAA play. proved so much over the season tion returns during the regular continued from page 24 "Playing at home will make continued from page 24 and is playing with a lot of con­season. us feel less nervous," Manthei fidence," said Guerin. "The defensive unit has been 
"Last year, being in the tour­wideout Michelle Drury spark

said, "although we've been "Michelle (Drury) catches ev­great all season long," said 
nament was totally new to us." an offensive juggernaut and are

playing better away. Still, it's erything. All you have to do is Neidlinger. "Their great play
Thompson said. "We may have a chief reason for the team's

scary to think that Saturday lay it out there for her." has made the offense better." 
been a bit unsure of ourselves, current four game winning

could be our last game. I don't Guerin acknowledges the de­
but losing in the first round will streak.

think we're ready for that." The team has also received fense will have to continue to 
keep "Sarah (Donelly) has simply

help us our focus this And if Manthei isn't ready for strong play out of the offensive play at their eurrent level if 0-C 
year." been awesome this season at

her freshman year to end. line, especially during the win­is to have a chance of shutting 
And now that George Mason running back," said Guerin. 

Thompson certainly doesn't ning streak. down the high-powered Sigfried 
has been established as the "And Megan (Allen) has been

want an early-round Irish exit Neidlinger and Guerin are offense on Sunday.
Irish opponent in Saturday's great wherever she's played

to shorten her career. eager to praise the play of the 
opening round, the Irish loss to this season, whether it be at

"Playing at home against line and claim that center "The defense is definitely the 
the Patriots last season may be running back, quarterback, or

George Mason will be a great Yvonne McCray may be the best key," she said. "They beat us 
an even greater motivator. safety."

situation," Thompson said. at her position in all of Interhall pretty good last time, so we 
Even Manthei, who did not 

"We'll have a lot of emotion. football. know we have to play well to­
experience last year's upset, In last Sunday's first round

I'm excited because I think we The defense for Off-Campus gether to shut down their of­
recognizes the significance of a victory over Walsh, Neidlinger

should have been home last has been equally dominating fense." 
remateh with George Mason. and Drury connected on two

year, too." this season. · Win or lose on Sunday, the 
"When we beat them earlier touchdown passes, and

"As a senior playing at home team has already accomplished 
this year, it was a revenge Neidlinger scored another on a

is always in the back of your Linemen Allison Coit and more than anyone would have 
game," Manthei said. "Now quarterback keeper.

mind as the best way to end the Annette Putz, safety Linda ever imagined heading into the 
we're just trying to show them sea.son." Guerin points out that the Keefe, and linebackers Guerin season. And to think, there we're the better team." pair has been instrumental in

Unless you're playing at and Molly McShane, the team's almost wasn't an Off Campus
Hegardless of their opponent. the team's rapid improvement

Portland in the final four. lone junior, lead an ex-team this year. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 

Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK FOR SALE: IBM compatible 486, NEED 2 Air Force GA"s ­NOTICES '951 LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA, FOR RENT w/color monitor. keyboard. mouse Call Mary Heather @ 4·2509. PERSONAL 
CANCUN. FLORIDA. PADRE. loaded with software-microsoft SCI ·FI & FANTASY SATURDAY BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1 THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN. office,windows.lotus. harvard Need A. F. Tix-stu or GAs Seamaisin at the Midway Tavern. 2 November 121h 10·6 233-2342 ORGANIZE GROUP. TRAVEL NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED graphics-$900 or best offer -X0640 Mark 289-6988 ,, blocks So. of Hacienda on 4th all sci-fi pbk books 50·75% offf FREEl SUN SPLASH TOURS1· 
BED & BREAKFAST. 35 MIN. TO Street...... Every Thursday Pandora"s Books 808 Howard St 800-426-7710 1 way plane ticket to Boston for I need 2 AF GA's. 
NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE Dec20-best offer-JP@4013 Call X0718. Notre Dame"s Traditional Irish Band 
OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­

$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break ... Seamaisin .... 1st CD at the
773·2034

10-6m-sat pandora"s books Sailing Cruise I Free brochure Bookstore. 2cd one by X-Mas NO ave & Howard st 10·6 m-sat 1 (800)359-9808 TICKETS I $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
WANTED: LAW/MBA/GRAD233·2342 cool stuff cool store STUDENT TO SHARE L-.-----------'· Need 1 AF Student ticket FOOTBALL NO. 58= KINETIC 
FURNISHED APT FOR SPRING 

Wantedllllndividuals and Student Plane ticket to Orlando for sale. Call PLEASE! Michael-x4050 ENERGY. OCTOPUSSY Organizations to Promote SPRING x2771 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ II intrigued, respond in classifieds. 
SEMESTER. Thu 8,1030 BREAK '95. Earn substantial (Address to KIWI)
CALL273-6418 FOR MORE INFO. LaFortune Montgomery Theatre MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL 2 FSU Tickets for sale. Call x4478. •••••••••• PLEASE HELP!'*'**•••• by SUB INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1-I NEED 2 AIR FORCE TICKETS Hey Anthony Freaks. 
Looking for a male I female room­mate at Castle Point. 

800-327-60q I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. CALL CHRISSY x3098 -THANKS You smell like a turd! TOADIE TOADIE TOADIE 272-6551 love. Kinky
$ 280/mo + all utilities. with cable II you haven"! bought a ticket for LOCAL CONSULTING FIRM 
TV, until may of '95 tonight"s Toad the Wet Sprocket SEEKS SALES/MKTG. ASST. FOR FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL I NEED AF GA"s 

call 272·1663 show. who are you kidding­94/95 SCHOOL YEAR. HOME GAMES. 272·7233. Call Brian 4·1861 Did you know that there is a you know you want to. FLEX. HRS. safe and confidential support -Go for it. don't be afra1d. They're HOURLY WAGE & COMM. FOR SALE I NEED 3 AF GAs! Sam X4872 I need 2, 3 or 5 AF GAs meeting for gays. lesbians.bisexu­nice guys. they don"! bite. GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO GAIN Rob x1816 als, and questioning people? It Definitely people's people. VALUABLE SALES EXP. FLORIDA STATE TICKETS happens tonight at 7:30 Rm 300 
Spring Break Early Specials! So GO AHEAD. Tickets are still (219) 256-9546. FOR SALE 277-1659 I NEED 1 AF stud or GA U. Counseling Center. Call the Q.
Bahamas Party Cruise, 6 days & 12 available at the LAFortune Info KERRY 4879 line for more info. 287-6665
meals $279! Panama City Desk ($12 for students. $15 for I NEED AF GA's
Oceanview Kitchens $1291 Cancun & Jamaica $3991 Daytona $1591

general public) and they'll see you ATIENTION AMBITIOUS. SELF­DAVE 634-1198 I need Air Force tix!!!! Please Call Atttention all you fabulous gays. tonight at B...at the Stepan Center. MOTIVATED Students. The x3830 Did I mention that I will final­lesbians, and bisexuals there are
Keys $2291 CocoaBeach $159! 1­ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is HELP!! Need 2 GA's or stud tix for ly go out with the 3B six·man lately some wonderful articles at in
800-678-6386 currently Interviewing students for Air Force call AMY 277-4612 I've been a wuss. Common Sense this mcnth check 
HANDCRAFTED GIFTS from Summer "95 management posi­them OUT!
EA HOCKEY for IBM around the world. tions. Earn money in excess of Need two Air Force GAs leslie 273-2 Air Force GA"s for Sale 235-3394 
1994 players with trades. etc... GLOBAL GIFTS at LaFortune $10.090. Call now. 1-800-477·1001 9303 Muberty puberty looberty jajooberty 
almost brand new. has all books Student Center, Nov. 10 & 11, for a campus representative. 4 FSU tix for sale catherine x4308 blibliboplypu NUUUUUUUUUUU­
and the registration form. Room 108. 9am·6pm. I have 2 FSU GA"s for sale. Call UDE
best offer; call Tom at 4·1712 Wanted on Video Anne at 312-907·8075 with your I NEED 1 AF STUD. T~,;. MIKE 
WOLF Complete classic basketball game offer. leave a message with your 20{1-1?03 To the women of 334 Siegfried:
'93 Camero Z28, 6-speed, Fri/Sat 8.1030 Cushing Auditorium from 1974 between UCLA and phone # if not home. Thanks for the invitation! Join us
pw. pdl. abs, Clarion by SUB Notre Dame (upset game). It was for a group beer sometime! 
CD player, alarm. 10k miles the game in which Notre Dame Need: 2 STUDENT AIR FORCE TIX Love,
never seen winter. $18.000. finally ended UCLA"s 88 game win­Air Force GAs (2 or 4 together) FOR SALE CALL X4054 1012 Grace 
Call 4·1970 
'LOST & FOUND' ning streak. Contact Ed Ramos, call Marc at X3309 or X3300 

P.O. Box 340662, Hartford. CT have 2 Fla St. GA"s hence. like a virgin.
For Sale: American West Airlines 

FOUND: One black Casio watch 06134-0662 AF. SO. CAL GA'S FOR SALE. call Jason at 272-4297 
Ticket Vouchers-{:lREAT DEAL!I near Stonehenge on Sat. 11/5 288-1186. orville will get the cheese; stine will 
Call X1295 Call Jen @ 2446 NEED air force tix:2studs & 2 GAs eat 
HURRYI MGMT. POSITIONS NEED 2 air force GAs & 2 studs call call shannon x4236 
MacCiassic. 4 mb RAM. with hard LOST: set of keys on BUD LIGHT FILLING QUICKLY. T.A.S.P. shannon x4236 "Biub. Blub. Blub. Blub. Blub"
drives. software; great condition; key chain possibly at INTERNATIONAL SEEKS I need Air Force GA's and Stud Tix. The sound of SARA LEITSCH 
$400; 289-7017. KNOTISYR MOTIVATED APPLICANTS -HELP-Please call Greg @ 1620 making my Italian blood boil. CALL MIKE X3054 EARN $8-10 THOUSAND $$$ I NEED$$$ -Sven
4 Sale Notebook 486 OX 33MHz NEXT SUMMER RUNNING A AIR FORCE GA'S Wanted: Air Force GA"s. Close to
240HD 8 mem 16 gray monitor with $40.000 BUSINESS. GREAT CALL GARY 277-9279 campus. 271-9540. ask for Bob. Whoooeeeee. can't wait till Friday!
mouse and case $1200 also 
WANTED 
RESUME BUILDER. CONTACT Desktop 386DX 33MHz 80MD 4mem with SVGA monitor, fax, 

MICHAEL WILLIS AT 1-800-543-2 FSU GA"s. Jeff -1-3906 TOAD THE WET SPROCKET TIX Hey Morgs, CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -3792 OR X2040. Please help me -I bought too What are we going to do with
modem, handscaner. and tape backup $500 call 272-1663 

Earn up to $2,000+/month working I need 2 Air Force GAs!ll! Call many ........................... Brian x1058 ourselves? II Bud and Bub on Cruise Ships or Land· Tour com­Kevin @ 271-7284 weren"t such dicks, life would panies. World travel (Hawaii. AD SALESPERSON FOR COM­FOR SALE-Tandy Dot Matrix be great. Oh well, there is no 
Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) MUNITY NEWSPAPER IN FSUFSUFSUFSUFSUFSUFSU Its worth asking a second time ... chance for that. Little Sisters Seasonal and Full-Time employ­MISHAWAKA. P·T, IDEAL FOR One FSU ticket for sale, TOAD THE WET SPROCKET TIX of the Assumption, here we ment available. No experience nec­INTERN WHO NEEDS GOOD Best Offer Help me out -Regular price -Call come. 
Printer $60 call Amy x1480 

FOR SALE-Magnavox VideoWriter What was that story Word Processor+ 4 ribbon car­
essary. For more information call 1-RESUME AND GOOD PAY. CALL Call 232-8337 Brian x1058 about the pool table?l? 206-634-0468 ext. C55841 258-0121. FSUFSUFSUFSUFSUFSUFSU Ky. gal 
tridges $100 call Amy x1480 


-~-~-~-----­

-~-~~-------~------------~----------------, 
Thursday, November I 0, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NBA • BmoNG 
OlajuW"on's 43 leads Tyson withdraws appeal 

Associated Press is eligible for release next May. cials said. 
Marion Superior Court Judge Tyson was convicted of INDIANAPOLIS Patricia Gifford, who presided attacking beauty pageant con­Associated Press bounded the Rockets 18-9. Mike Tyson has quietly with­over the trial. had scheduled a testant Desiree Washington of Olajuwon had 23 points and drawn his requesL for an September hearing on a second Rhode Island, who said the INDIANAPOLIS six rebounds in the first half as appeal hearing on his 1992 round of appeals. That hearing boxer lured her to his hotel 
J-lakeem Olajuwon's 43 points the Rockets led by as many as rape conviction. was delayed at Tyson's request room and raped her. Tyson said and 16 rebounds carried the 17 in building a 58-4 7 halftime The decision means the for­until Nov. 14. the sex was consensual. Houston Rockets past the advantage. Houston managed mer heavyweight boxing cham­But in a motion granted last The Indiana Court of Appeals Indiana Pacers 109-104 only a 24-23 rebound advan­pion will serve the remaining month, Tyson asked that the upheld the conviction in August Wednesday night in a game in tage at the break. despite hold­months of his six-year term. He hearing be cancelled, court offi-1993. which the crowd pelted the ing Indiana to 36 percent floor with trash to protest an shooting from the field. official's foul call. Indiana committed 14 per­


Indiana's Mark Jackson hit a sonal fouls and was called for 3-pointer with 30 seconds re­three technicals in the first 
Rockets past Pacers 
Jordan draws major league support 
maining to cut Houston's lead quarter, two of which were to 105-101. but Sam Cassell charged to Brown at the 5:16 By TERESA M. WALKER games against Nashville and we games on Memorial Day and and Mario Elie each hit a pair mark, when he was ejected. Associated Press still have plenty of good seats Labor Day. both of which will of free throws to secure the It's no surprise up-and-com­available." feature fireworks displays. The Houston victory. Reggie Miller, ing teams like Indiana are get­NASHVILLE, Tenn. Other teams in the Class Redbirds play the Sounds on who had 25 points, attempted a ting up to play the Rockets, American Association teams Triple-A league are waiting to the Fourth of July, also a fire­3-point shot with nine seconds Olajuwon said. are wasting little time in taking see if Jordan indeed will be works game. left. but was called for an offen­"We know what to expect," advantage of the Michael moving up from the Class But the Redbirds are remind­sive foul. he said. "Our schedule is very Jordan baseball show. Double-A Birmingham Barons, ing all buyers that the 14-game 
Play was suspended for 10 tough early. My job is to chal­The Louisville Redbirds and the farm team of the Chicago package costing $79 may not minutes as angry Pacer fans, lenge everyone at the basket. Buffalo Bisons already are of­White Sox, following his stint feature Jordan. who had already seen Indiana Max (Vernon Maxwell) did a fering special ticket packages with the Fall League in "We're being careful to call it 
coach Larry Brown ejected, great job on Reggie (Miller). featuring 1995 games against Arizona. our Nashville Sounds package flooded the Market Square "Whether they give us re­the Nashville Sounds, whose "I think people may still be and not our Michael Jordan Arena floor with trash. spect or not, they know we play roster includes the former NBA waiting to see if it happens for package," Redbirds spokesman Indiana pulled to 76-71 with good team defense. We won a superstar. sure," Robbie Bohren. director Tab Brockman said 
championship. You cannot take

2:12 remaining in the third "We're going to go for this of media relations for the Wednesday. "You never know
that away."

period on a jumper by Byron like everybody else goes for it," Nashville Sounds, said what's going to happen in base­
The importance of the game

Scott, who scored eight con­Buffalo spokesman John Wednesday. "It's likely to hap­ball."
to the Pacers, who face high

secutive points for the Pacers Isherwood said. 
expectations after advancing to

during a 9-3 run. Dale Davis The Indianapolis Indians are
the Eastern Conference finals

had nine points and six re­not running any special pro­
last season, was evident.

bounds for Indiana in the third, motions for games featuring
Indiana was called for eight of 

as the Pacers held Houston to Jordan, but the team did begin
the game's 10 technical fouls. 

36 percent shooting and outre-selling advance single tickets
"This was the most unusual for games against the Sounds,game I've played in," Jackson said Cal Burleson, spokesman
said. "Early on, we dug our­
for the Indians. 
Recycle 
selves a hole, and we never Individual tickets are not came out of it. This was a tough available for any other gamesloss for us. We can't blame the yet, he said. 
refs. They made some tough
The 
"Those are the only ones forcalls and they made some bad 
which we've had a demand,"
calls, but we just have to play a Burleson said. " ... We've had awhole game from the begin­

Observer 
good advance sale of tickets for
ning." 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
(Any Major) 
Think it's too soon to start thinking about a summer job? 
WE DON'T THINK SO... 
Procter &Gamble, the Company that brings you such well-known brands as Tide, Crest, Folgers, Charmin, Secret, and Duncan Hines (to name just a few) is looking for qualified applicants to hire for summer internships. 
If you are creative and can demonstrate leadership and initiative, stop by Career &Placement for more information about P&G and where to send your resume. 

Resumes Are Due By December 16th So Pick Up An Information Packet Today! 
pen, but people want to wait." 
The February announcement that Jordan had been issued an invitation to spring training by the White Sox set off massive ticket sales in Nashville. The decision to send Jordan to Double-A Birmingham spurred record sales for all Southern League teams. 
In Buffalo. the Bisons open the season with the Sounds and are selling a "Nashville Pack" featuring six-and 12-game packages for the games when Jordan would be in town. 
Isherwood said the Bisons wanted to call it the "Jordan Pack" but decided not to since they can't guarantee he will be coming. 
Fans can buy a package from the Louisville Redbirds featur­ing all 12 games against the Sounds, along with tickets for 
Bohren said Nashville officials are quietly preparing for Jordan's arrival but that few details have been settled. 
Sounds' president and gen­eral manager Larry Schmittou is handling the search for hous­ing. Sounds' players usually have the option of living in an apartment complex that adver­tises with the team, but Schmittou said Jordan's house wouldn't consist of just two bedrooms and a bath. 
Housing shouldn't be a prob­lem in the town known as Music City, the home of country music and a fair share of man­sions and plush estates. Jordan, a golfing fanatic, can pick and choose from a dozen courses. 
Travel will be a little easier. Nashville travels by airplane to most cities in the league that stretches west to Omaha, Neb., and east to Buffalo, N.Y. 

-
L
THANKSGIVING SERVICE VISIT TO 1ARCHE COMMUNITIES IN ERIE, PA 
sponsored by 
Center for Social Concerns 
& Keenan Hall 
L'Arche Communities are small group homes for the mentally disabled where the disabled are treated as equal participants in a family atmosphere with their helpers. The original L'Arche communities were established in France, and now they exist all over the globe. The Diocese of Erie, Pennsylvania has seven L'Arche communities. 
*Leave Wednesday, Nov. 23 at 3 P.M. *Return Sunday, November 27 at 3 P.M. *Cost $30 
"'I Theology credit through C.S.C. *Requirements: 1) 2 readings 
2) 3 page reflection paper 
*Contact: Bro. Bonaventure Scully, 120 Keenan Hall, 631-7353 *Deadline with payment: Wednesday, November 16 
r 
l 
Thursday, November 10, 1994

I page 16 The Observer· SPORTS
I 

San Francisco seeks change of fortune 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. 
Over the last two years, the San Francisco 49ers' record against the Dallas Cowboys has been a downer: three meetings,

t two in NFC championship 
i 
~ games, and all losses. They're still hanging in there, bruised egoes and all, and in Sunday's rematch the 49ers 
i 
will be trying to reverse their no-win situation and regain the psychological edge. 
"This lets us know what type of team we have," 49ers tackle Steve Wallace said. "There's no secret they're the team to beat out there. Instead of competing with them, we have to get past them. We're not just looking to be at their level." 
"It's a game everybody wants, wants real bad," added San Francisco linebacker Ken Norton Jr., facing his former Dallas team for the first time. 
Dallas (8-1) enters the game with the league's best record and a six-game winning streak, the most recent a 38-10 dis­mantling of the New York Giants on Monday night. 
Emmitt Smith, who has rushed for 294 yards and scored five times in the Cowboys' last three wins over San Francisco, had a club record 35 carries for 163 yards and two touchdowns in Dallas' latest win. 
"I like the way we're playing but this is the test because Dallas has great personnel all the way around," 49ers free safety Merton Hanks said. "We straight NFC championship loss last January at Dallas, and also is on a four-game roll entering Sunday's rematch. 
The 49ers' defense, which has six new starters, registered its fourth score in six games in last week's 37-22 win at Washington. The 49ers also are clicking offensively with Steve Young leading the league in passing and the once-battered offensive line returning to health. 
"We know what's at stake, not only in the standings and for the playoffs but how impor­tant it is to this organization. That's why we were brought in," added linebacker Gary Plummer, who was signed as a free agent along with Norton, Deion Sanders, Rickey Jackson and Richard Dent as part of San Francisco's offseason makeover. 
"They needed to improve their speed. They needed to improve their attitude and they needed to be more physical. Hopefully, we've provided some of that," Plummer said. "So I think this is an extremely important game. It's important from an emotional aspect for most of the guys on this team to prove they can beat Dallas. But it's also important to remember that we haven't even clinched a playoff berth at this point." 
Hanks said the game was im­portant because home-field ad­vantage in the playoffs may ride on it. 
San Francisco defensive tack­le Dana Stubblefield said the 49ers are not treating the game as a "must-win" because there's still plenty of games to 

Cowboys 'No Michael Moorer' 
BY DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 
After three consecutive victo­ries over the San Francisco 49ers, the Dallas Cowboys feel the heat is on their rivals head­ing into Sunday's NFC show­down in Candlestick Park. 
"This week is what it's all about but I can guarantee the 49ers we're no Michael Moorer," said offensive line­man Nate Newton, referring to the ex-heavyweight champion, who lost his title to George Foreman last Saturday. 
Fullback Daryl Johnston said the Cowboys feel that despite two consecutive NFC champi­onship victories over the 49ers "they still don't respect us. They don't think it's going to happen again. They don't think they're going to lose to us again." 
Johnston said it's just another game to the Cowboys while the 49ers have all the pressure. "This is just week 10 on our schedule," he said. "It's not going to make or break us." 

The Cowboys are 8-1, best in the NFL, and San Francisco is 7-2. 
"It's not any more important than the other 15 games will be," quarterback Troy Aikman said. "It could have some sig­nificance to the home field but beyond that it's not any more important. The fans and the media are excited. The media has been pointing to this game since the schedules came out." 
Aikman said, "We've won the Super Bowl the last two years and that's their goal. We came out of nowhere two years ago to beat the 49ers in the NFC title game. Last year we proved it was no fluke. I guess San Francisco sees the game as a measuring stick.'' 
Aikman said the fact the Cowboys played a Monday night game and will have to fly to the West Coast should have no bearing. 
"We usually handle that real well," Aikman said. 

Wide receiver Michael Irvin said the game "is more of a ri­valry for them than it is for us. All I know is we'll be ready. We have the mentality we're going to win no matter who we play." 
The Cowboys found humor in the fact they are three-point underdogs. 
"I love being the underdog," said running back Emmitt Smith. "That's great. Being the underdog doesn't mean any­thing. You only lose if you think you're going to lose. I think it's funny we're the underdog." 
Smith said the 49ers have built their team trying to match up with the Cowboys. 
"It would be a big feather in their pocket if they win," Smith said. "But it's not the end of the world to us if we lose. In fact, I've seen teams like Detroit beat us and have trouble win­ning another game because it takes so much out of them." 
Coach George Seifert of the 49ers agreed all the heat is on San Francisco. 


On DisplaiJ in Ihe DDtJleiJ 1ltJtJm, 7sf tltJtJr lattJrlune /rDm n11uem6er 1-1 7 

----~---~-----------­

Thursday, November I 0, 1994 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 


..: 
z 
r----------------------------------------------, MACARONIAUFROMAGE 
(EAT WITH GUSTO FOR ABOUT 51¢ PER SERVING) 
2 cups macaroni (pinwheels are fun) 1 cup milk 1 cup sharp cheddar (grated) 3 tbs flour 1/2 stick butter 1 tsp pepper 1 tsp Worcestershire (if you like) 1 tsp salt 
Cook macaroni in 5 cups salted, boiling water for 15 minutes or until al dente: Drain. In a separate pot, melt butter and mix in flour over ·low heat. Then, stir in milk until smooth. Add cheese, salt, pepper and Worcestershire. Stir well. Smother macaroni. Serves 4. 
Note: For your nutritional convenience, Citibank Classic cards are accepted at over 11 million 
1 locations, including grocery stores. 
-


page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, November 1 0, 1994 
-•NFL New York names Steeler defense keys revival 
By ALAN ROBINSON complete without a Mean Joe elite, with teams such as the Associated Press jersey. Cowboys, 49ers and Bills, after
new quarterback 

Just as they did 20 football a 23-0 Monday night victory By TOM CANAVAN when the Giants used a No. 1 PITTSBURGH years ago, they lead the AFC over Buffalo last season, only to Associated Press pick in the 1992 supplemental Twenty years ago this fall, with 29 sacks, only three fewer lose four of their final seven. 
draft to take him, was 4 of 17 Pittsburgh Steelers coach than NFL leader Dallas. Only This season, their down-the­EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. for 56 yards against the first Chuck Noll was fine-tuning two years after finishing near stretch schedule might prove With the New York Giants team. what many still believe was the the bottom in sacks, they have just as challenging. The com­riding their longest losing greatest team in NFL history. not one, but two defenders bined record of their first nine streak since 1980, Dave Brown "I think it's obvious that not He had just benched whip­among the sack leaders: line­opponents was 31-50, but the knew his tenure as Phil Simms' everything went Dave's way arm quarterback Joe Gilliam, backers Greg Lloyd and Kevin next seven are 38-25 -and successor was in serious jeop­and it all wasn't his fault," said who so loved to pass he consid­Greene, with seven apiece. their final three (Philadelphia, ardy. Graham, who has a stronger ered any run to be a gadget They are on a pace to nearly Cleveland and San Diego) are 
That didn't make it any easi­arm but is less mobile than play, replacing him with Terry match the team-record 52 21-6. er for Brown on Wednesday, Brown. "Our team has to get Bradshaw. Joe Greene was at sacks they had in a 14-game Hegardless, All-Pro corner­when Dan Reeves walked into better as a whole. I'm not going his intimidating, helmet-fling­season in 1974. And their de­bar,k Hod Woodson thinks these the weight room and told him to be able to come out here and ing best. Mel Blount was such a fen~ is more than just quar­Steelers are better equipped thr..t Kent Graham was taking totally change everything suffocating defender, he single­terback-unfriendly -they've physically and psychologically over as starting quarterback around. I have to have help of­handedly forced the NFL to allowed only one opponent to to withstand the pressures of beginning Sunday against the fensively and defensively." rewrite its bump-and-run rule. score a touchdown in the last another difficult stretch run. Arizona Cardinals. Reeves stressed that Graham And the greatest rookie class month. Their 11 touchdowns "It doesn't make any differ­
will have the same opportunity in history -Lynn Swann, Jack allowed are the fewest in the ence whether the other teams 
The news hurt then, and it as Brown to show what he can Lambert, John Stallworth and league. are on or off, the only team we was obvious it still did later in do, which means he might be Mike Webster -was finally "You can't play much better can control is the Steelers," the morning. Brown looked the starter for the rest of the growing comfortable with life in defensively than what we're Woodson said Wednesday. "As drained. !lis eyes were watery year. the NFL. playing," said defensive end long as we turn it on, that's all and his voice cracked answer­Ray Seals, who had three sacks that matters ing the first question. "I still have a lot to prove," And when it finally all came Sunday in a 12-9 overtime vic­"We have a tough way to go, 
"Obviously, I'm upset about said Graham, who started and together, the Steelers won an tory in Houston. "We're really but I think we're a lot more it," said Brown, who has lost three games as a rookie in unprecedented four Super racking up the sacks." consistent than we were the thrown 1 0 interceptions in the 1992 when Simms and Jeff Bowls in six years. Offensively, these Steelers last two years. We not nearly as six-game losing streak that has Hostetler were hurt. "The pres­Now, a generation of towel­don't compare to the up and down as we were. Last seen the Giants (3-6) go from sure is on me and that's part of waving fans later, most of these Bradshaw-Fra nco-Swan n­year, the veterans sort of an undefeated playoff hopeful the position, I realize that. I like players, and Noll, are in the Pro Stallworth teams, but when for­slacked off at the end ... but to a team ready to look forward to feel I have a shot to get in Football Hall of Fame, and a mer All-Pro runner Barry we're progressing now, and to next season. there and play a while." new class of Steelers may be on Foster went down with a we're improving." 
In his nine games as a the verge of being an elite team sprained knee four weeks ago, The remaining sehedule ­
"I don't think I would be a starter, Brown completed 125 again. Perhaps even this sea­the offense didn't go with him. Buffalo, Miami, Los Angeles good quarterback if I accepted of 221 passes for 1,503 yards, 7 son. Hookie Bam Morris has sup­Haiders, Cincinnati, this wholeheartedly," he said. touchdowns and 12 intercep­The Steelers (6-3), who play planted him as the team's Philadelphia, Cleveland and "I want to be the guy out there. tions. The interception total the four-time defending AFC reaching leader. San Diego -may determine As I said before, I just want to was three more than Simms champion Buffalo Bills on The challenge for the Steelers how much they've improved. be the guy to take the heat and had in 1993. Monday night, haven't been so now is to keep it going. "The only thing we can do is take some of the credit. It kind good defensively since every They seemed close to break­play each one, one by one, of hurts right now." New York, which gained a kid's athletic wardrobe was in-ing into the ranks of the NFL's week by week," Woodson said. 
Brown, who beat out Graham season-low 188 yards in a 38­in training camp to win the job 10 loss to Dallas on Monday, is· that opened after Simms was ranked last in the NFL in total released in a salary-cap move offense, averaging 255.4 yards. this summer, has hurt the Brown's 65.5 quarterback rat­Giants in the losing streak. ing is 25th among the 29 quar­

WHAT 'L8 AN UR:SA.N PLUNtlt:?
Three of his interceptions terbacks listed in this week's have been returned for touch­league statistics. downs. Three others have led "I have done some poor to opposition TDs and one has things and made bad throws, 

* 4 8 h.ou.r e.xpe.rience. i-n an i-nne.r ci-ty led to a field goal. but that's something I have to 
of you.r ch.oi-ce. 
live with," said Brown, whose "I certainly don't feel like ascension to the No. 1 quarter­

* Du.ri-ng the. we.e.h, of Janu.ary 3 -1 0 th. Dave Brown is the reason our back was a storybook ending 
(d.ates are. ch.ose.n by th.e. host si-te.)
record is like it is," said for a kid who grew up 30 min­Heeves, who three weeks ago utes from Giants Stadium. 

* 8e.e. sou.p h.i-tch.e.ns, sh.dte.rs, we.[.fare. warned Brown to win or else. Now, he'll watch from the 
aqe.nci-e.s, e.tc. 
"I do think Kent deserves the bench, which is the same spot 
* Tal.h. to h.omde.ss pe.op(e.

..... opportunity to turn things Heeves relegated John Elway to around and give us a spark that when he struggled during his 
* 11-e.e.t oth.e.rs wh.o are. tryi-ng to mah.e. 
will lift us and get us off this rookie season at Denver. 

(i-fe. be.tte.r for pe.op(e. of poverty
losing streak." 
Graham, an eighth-round "As I said in preseason, it al­draft pick in 1992, played for ways seems like I'm lighting an the first time this season uphill battle," Brown said. "It's Monday. lie completed 9 of 14 another battle I have to fight. In for 98 yards and a touchdown. the end, when all this stuff 
irons itself out, in 15 years or 
Most of that yardage came / whatever, I can look back on against the Cowboys' second-this and maybe this will have team defense. some type of benefit for me. 

Brown, who seemingly That's the only positive I can became Simms' heir apparent put on a negative situation." Regi-strati-ons avai!ab[.e. at the Center for Soci-aL Concerns 
ami Campus 1'ti-ni-stry -UND
\ 

Campus 1'ti-ni-stry, Justi-ce Educati-on Offi-ce
lli\I111Y 2IS'r lllll'flll)i\Y 

and nuLti-cuLturaL 0f f i-ces -snc 




The Offi-ce of liCC 

1\ 'flll~l{ !):10 SIIX IS lfi\I'I'INf; IN '1'111~ C;i\lll\f;J~ I~Oil YOIJ !
• 
J...Ol'l~, )) 1\J), f~III~ Ill, ))1\N, !li\'l,f & ,J1\Y 

Thursday, November 10, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
• STRIKES 
Congressional shifts NHL talks progressing 
may affect MLB strike 
By KEN RAPPOPORT 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Hopeful signs of ending the NHL lockout emerged Wednesday, with one man­agement source telling The Associated Press it's possible the season could resume next month. 
"If the talks continue this way, they could be playing hockey by the first of December," said the source, speaking on the condition he not be identified. "A lot will hinge on tomorrow's meeting." 
Others were not as optimistic, but no one dismissed the possi­bility completely. 
NHL commissioner Gary Bettman and union head Bob Goodenow met for seven hours Monday and players have soft­ened their stance against a rookie salary cap, the source said. 
They are to meet Thursday, possibly in Buffalo, N.Y. This marks the first time the sides talked twice in one week since Oct. 4-5. 
"There are still a lot of issues 
on the table," the source said. 
"Everything depends on how 
well the meeting goes 
Thursday. But the fact that they 
met Monday and are meeting 
again Thursday is a major 
breakthrough. They did make 
some headway (on Monday)." 
In an ESPN radio interview 
Wednesday, Brian Burke, vice 

By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Players and owners don't know whether the Republican takeover of Congress will affect efforts to strip baseball of its antitrust exemption. 
House Judiciary Committee 
chairman Jack Brooks, D­
Texas, who helped push a bill 
out of committee last month, 
lost his race for re-election and 
will be replaced by Rep. Henry 
Hyde, R-Ill. 
In the Senate, Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, takes over as Judiciary Committee chairman from Joseph Biden, D-Del. Biden and Hatch voted against ·the antitrust bill last June but Hatch then changed his mind 
and became a co-sponsor. 
"We have had broad biparti­
san support and it's getting 
broader," union Donald Fehr 
said Wednesday. "Other than 
that I'm not going to com­
ment." 
The chief House sponsor, 
Mike Synar, D-Okla., lost his 
primary for re-election and the 
chief Senate sponsor, Howard 
Metzenbaum, 0-0hio, is retir­
ing. 
Rep. Pat Williams, D-Mont., 
held a hearing last month on 
his bill to impose binding arbi­
tration but will be replaced as 
chairman of the House 
Education  and  Labor  
Committee  by  William  
Goodling, R-Pa.  

"It's much too early to make any assessment," said acting commissioner Bud Selig, who has fought to preserve the ex­emption. "I have always said, and I really mean it, the only way you're ever going to have a settlement is at the (bargaining) table." 
Selig may be at the table when talks resume Thursday at Rye Brook, N.Y., under the su­pervision of mediator W.J. Usery. Selig has attended just one bargaining session, on Sept. 9, five days before owners canceled the World Series. 
"I've talked to Mr. Usery to­day and it's a possibility," Selig said in a telephone interview from Phoenix, where owners were completing their business strategy meetings. 
Six other management repre­sentatives are to attend the bargaining, which is scheduled to run through Sunday: Boston Red Sox chief executive office John Harrington, Colorado Rockies chairman Jerry McMorris, Atlanta Braves pres­ident Stan Kasten, Philadelphia Phillies co-general partner Dave Montgomery, Milwaukee Brewers_ general counsel Wendy Selig-Prieb and former St. Louis Cardinals CEO Stuart Meyer. 


president in charge of hockey operations for the NHL, said, "I am optimistic that a deal can be worked out in time to save the season." 
It was a direct reversal of Burke's position last week when he said he felt the NHL was at risk of losing the season. 
Goodenow said Wednesday the union had not made any specific proposal to the league. 
"Since the league rejected our last proposal on Oct. 10, we have not made another pro­posal -not at all," Goodenow told The Canadian Press. 
The rookie salary cap issue has been one of the major stumbling blocks in the owners' 1 lockout that began Oct. 1, the day the season was scheduled to start. The sides also disagree on a luxury tax plan to raise money for small-market teams and salary arbitration. 
Agent Jay Grossman, who represents 60 players, ex­pressed "cautious optimism." 
"It's a sign in the sense that they had substantive discus­sions," he said. "It was the first time they had spoken (serious­ly) at any length. One still doesn't know. They still need to sit down and work toward finalizing a deal." 
NHL Players Association 
spokesman Steve McAllister 
was less optimistic than the 
source, saying the report 
"sounded pretty optimistic." 
And an agent, also speaking on 
the condition he not be identi­fied, said, "I don't sense the same optimism." 

Another source told the AP it was likely there has been some discussion regarding an "entry­level system" governing salaries rather than a strict salary cap on rookies. 
Still another source with knowledge of the league's bar­gaining position said there was no movement in the rookie salary cap issue at all, but there has been movement on several other issues from manage­ment's side, including arbitra-­tion and guaranteed contracts. 
Now in its 40th day, the lock­out has already led the league to cancel 14 games from each team's schedule. A total of 218 scheduled games have been missed. 
"I think we're looking at a 60-game schedule," the source _ told the AP. 
However, NHL spokesman Arthur Pincus said "there's no way of knowing how many games we can play until we know when we're going to start." 
Last week, the NHL an­nounced 10 more games would be wiped off the schedule to make it a 70-game season. Burke said last week he ex­pected more games would be canceled this week. 
Meanwhile, the NHL .. an­
nounced it has scheduled a 
meeting for the media and gen­
eral managers in Toronto on 
Wednesday. 

TODAY IS LAURA EMPEY'S BIRTHDAY. 

IF YOU SEE HER, PLEASE GIVE HER A BEAR HUG FROM DAD, MOM AND MIKE. 

When the Great 
American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
.. 

..........--~------------~-----------.--------------~--._~------------------------~---------------------, 
page 20 
• TENNIS 

..... Tauziat ousts Martinez in Slims opener 
By BUCKY GLEASON 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA Nathalie Tauziat delivered 
her best performance of the season Wednesday, beating top-seeded Conchita Martinez 6-4, 6-4 in the first round of the Virginia Slims of PhilaJelphia. 
Tauziat used an assortment of drop shots and timely aces to overcome Martinez's power. The final three points came with consecutive backhand slices, including two that trick­led off the top of the net, to eliminate the defending cham­pion. 
"It's my last tournament of the year, and I have nothing to lose," said Tauziat, who is not seeded. "When I play my best, I can beat anybody." 
Tauziat won the first set after breaking serve and taking a 4­3 lead. She went ahead 5-3 with an ace and backhand vol­ley and won the set two games later with an overhead smash. 
Martinez won the first game but dropped three straight in the second set. Tauziat went ahea"d 5-3 by winning four straight service points, includ­ing two aces, and used two backhand volleys. She held serve for the match. 
"I haven't been playing well at the end of the season," said Martinez, who lost in the first round of last month's Nokia Grand Prix. "She played really a good match. Nathalie was tough." 
Jennifer Capriati was to play for the first time in more than a year after the completion of a doubles match that began shortly after 6 p.m.. Capriati opens against No. 6 seed Anke Huber, ranked 13th in the world. 
Martinez's loss opens the tournament for No. 2 seed Mary Pierce and No. 3 Lindsay Davenport. 
SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! 
Autographed by Joe Theismann, 
award-winning book Notre Dame 
Football Today, reg. $499\ now just 
$35"". Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's 
the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on ND 
football." A must for every student 
and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 
(219)634~ 1740 I 
MADELEVA 9 
Sister Mary Madeleva Wolff, CSC 
A Pictorial Biography 
11y Maria Assunla Wanu, CSC 
Educ.Jtor of Women 
Put President of 
1 
S.1int Muy's College 1 Notre Dame, Indiana 
Founder ofthe 
I 
First School of Theology for 
I 
Women in the United States 
N~lion.olly Known Poet and Author . 
_______ , 
300+ pages. soli cover-$1'.,5 (l11clwl• $1.50 for pru~<~z• allll lrallllli"l.J 
Mak.e checks payable to: 
Slstrl'5 o( lhe Holy Cross Saint Mary's • Box n Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

t 
The Observer • SPORTS 

Stich upset in ECC tourney 
Associated Press 
AN1WERP, Belgium Canadian qualifier Sebastien Lareau beat Michael Stich 6-7 (0-7), 6-3, 6-3 Wednesday in the $1.1 million European Community Tennis Championship, pushing the 
German out of next week's world championship. 
With American Todd Martin losing in Moscow, it left the way open for Stefan Edberg, who won here Wednesday, and Alberto Berasategui, playing in Buenos Aires, to claim the last two places in the Elite Eight IBM-ATP Tour World Championship in Frankfurt. 
Third-seeded Edberg had to rally from behind to beat Britain's Jeremy Bates, ranked 73rd in the world, 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 in the first round of the ECC. 
Stich, seeded second behind Pete Sampras here, lost in the opening round for the second time in a row, costing him the chance to defend his world championship title. 
He went in a blaze of double faults and unforced errors, al­lowing Lareau, ranked 123rd in the world, to claim his biggest win ever. 
"I knew he was very tight be­cause of Frankfurt," said Lareau, 21. "And I didn't feel any pressure." 
It appeared to be the opposite when he failed to take a single point off Stich in the first set tiebreak, after the German pro­duced a half-dozen double faults in the opening set alone. 
But in the second set, Lareau gained in composure and with poise and precision, kept Stich pinned in the backcourt. 

Frustrated, Stich lost the match on yet another double fault. 
On a great day for Swedes, Jonas Bjorkman reached the quarterfinals, beating Italian Renzo Furlan 6-3, 7-6 (7-2). In first-round action, seventh­seeded Magnus Larsson de­feated American Jonathan Stark 7-5, 6-3. 
Wild-card Byron Black of Zimbabwe came from behind to heat veteran Ronald Agenor of Haiti 5-7, 6-1, 6-3. 
In the first set, Edberg never found his touch and the world's No. 9 let Bates dictate play. Soon he was one set down and facing elimination. 
From then he was in charge, displaying his vintage serve­and-volley play to reach the second round. 
Thursday, November I 0, 1994 
•
Turkey Shoot· Team target 
shooting contest on Monday, November 14 and Tuesday the 15th from 4:00-6:00 pro. Co-Ree teams of two men and two women. Hegister in advance at RecSports. Deadline is November 10. Members of HOTC rifle squad not eligible. For info call 1­6100 
Women's Lacrosse practice will now be held on Mondays at 8:00 pro at Loftus. Monday. November 14. there will be practice at 8:00 pro and then a mandatory meet­ing at 9:00 pro. Any ques­tions, call Allison at X2389 or Molly at 287-7353. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

Spring 1995 Center for Social Concerns 

Sen1lna.·1·· 
The Mexico Seminar is a one-credit service-learning opportunity in Oaxaca, Mexico. During two weeks in late spring/early summer, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students provide service to a variety of people while experiencing the realities of Latin America directly. Cosponsored by Maryknoll, the program seeks to provide intercultural exchange through shared work experience in the context of a faith community. Students participate in fundraising efforts to lower costs. 
Two weeks in Oaxaca, Mexico: May 15 to May 31th, 1995 
(leaving time for summer work) 
Service-learning cosponsored by Maryknoll 
(Call and Response Program) 
One credit Theology 
Spanish helpful but not required 
Information Meeting: 

Thursday, Nov. 17, 4:15PM at the Center (optional) 
Applications are available at the Center 
-Applications due Nov. 30th with deposit 

For more information: Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 Sara Skalicky, 634-4949 



-~-~--~-­

Thursday, November 10, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
• ATHLETICS AWD POtil!CS 
1• 

Former athletes make election runs 

By FRED LIEF From football to baseball, player, Paul Krause of the Associated Press from auto racing to marathon­Minnesota Vikings, won a com­ing, ex-athletes went before the missioner's post in the Twin 
Politics and football forged a 
voters. Two sports owners -Cities area. 

strong alliance on Election Day, 
George W. Bush of the Texas Largent, a political rookie 

with two former stars riding the 
Rangers and Herb Kohl of the mocked for his inexperience,

Republican surge to seats in 
Milwaukee Bucks -were also easily defeated his Democratic 

Congress for Oklahoma. 
running, and both showed po­challenger, Tulsa oil man 
Steve Largent, the great NFL 
litical muscle. Stuart Price, for a vacant seat 

receiver for the Seattle 
Jim Bunning, the one-time in Oklahoma's 1st District. 

Seahawks who retired in 1989, 
pitching star, won a fifth term Certain to be elected as well 

and J.C. Watts, the quarterback 
as a Republican congressman to the Pro Football Hall of 

who led Oklahoma to two 
from Kentucky. Bill Kenney, Fame, Largent drew on his 

straight Orange Bowl victories 
once the quarterback for the football exploits. 

in the 1970s, were among the 
Kansas City Chiefs, drew on the "There are a lot of things

winners Tuesday on a day in 
anti-Democrat mood and cap­about my personality and skills 

which some dozen sports fig­
tured a seat in the Missouri that made me successful in 

ures ran for office. 
Legislature. Another ex-NFL football that will make me sue­
'Ihe Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra 
Raymond Leppard, Conductor 
Sunday, November 20, 1994 2:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
. Peaturing th~ prernirre qf" 
Symphony: Winter Lightning 
composed by Jeffrey Jacob commissioned by Saint Mary's College 
Guest Artist: Jeffrey Jacob 
Pianist-in-Residence Saint Mary's College 
The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra will also perform: 
Brahms' Academic Festival Overture, Op. 80 Brahms' Symphony No. 1 in C Minor, Op. 68 
For information about tickets, please call the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 284-4626. 
Lil~ 
THANI{SGIVING
LUNCH "'A Special Family Event"' 
for ALL GRADUATE STUDENTS & FAMILIES 
The cost is $1 PER PERSON with a special emphasis and interest in families & children! There is limited space ror reservations therefore RESPOND TODAY! You will recieve tickets 
once you reservations are received· tickets will he required! 
ALL RESERVATIONS MUST BE RECEIVED BY NOY. 14TH. 
DATE: Thursday, November 24th TIME: 12:30 noon to 3:30PM PLACE: North Dining Hall (graduate section will be designated) 
HOSTED BY: The GRADUATE STUDENT UNION, UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES, INTERNATIONAL STUDENT AFFAIRS OFFICE, 
Alumni Association & Campus Ministry & Student Activities ;.\ Ass00 • DJri ~,,,
..~, 
§'~ $P.,f;)C· ~~ :"'"llsfl~~ :;;: g 0tVJ1.l5 ~~ '~ 
Ni~NISTRY ·•1 ""•' 
·····································~~··········· 
-GRADUATE STUDENTS­THANKSGIVING DINNER-RSVP 
Graduate Student's Name: __________________ 
Names of your guests:.____________________ 
----------------Totalnumber attendin.:,..rr___ 
$1 X __ person(s) attending=$.__TOTAL ENCLOSED 
PLEASE Ct."r ~MAIL RSVP'S TO GSU OFFICE., lU LAFORTUNE BY NOVEMBER 14TH. 
cessful as a politician," he said during the campaign. "Perseverance, a strong work ethic, willingness to serve oth­ers and be a team player." 
Watts, the wishbone quarter­back who led the Sooners to two Big Eight titles, won a much closer race in Oklahoma's 4th District, defeating Democrat David Perryman. Watts empha­sized welfare reform and a con­servative platform. 
"We now go to Washington to lead," he said. 
Oklahoma nearly made it a trifecta with the politics-football connection. But Lt. Gov. Jack Mildren, the Democratic nomi_,.. nee for governor and a quar­terback for the Sooners in the 1970s, lost to Republican Frank Keating. 
In Alabama, Fob James, a former football player at Auburn, defeated Gov. Jim Folsom by a razor-thin margin in a huge upset for the Republicans. 
James played for Auburn from 1952-55 and is the lOth leading rusher for a school that has produced such running backs as Bo Jackson, Tucker Frederickson, Joe Cribbs and James Brooks . 
Kenney, a Chiefs quarterback from 1979-88, defeated incum­bent Democrat Margaret Rennau for a spot in the Missouri Senate. Kenney used a Chiefs motif in much of his advertising, reminding voters of his football past. Rennau coun­tered with a commercial citing the Chiefs' losing record when Kenney was the quarterback. 
Krause, who played free safe­
ty for the Vikings from 1968 to 
1979, was making his first 
political run. He was looking to 
become Dakota County commis­
sioner in Minnesota, with the 
outcome not immediately avail­
able. 
A devastating blow was 


CINEMA AT THE SNITE Friday & Saturday 7:30 and 9:45 pm 
struck by Bush, the 48-year-old managing partner of the Texas Rangers. The eldest son of the former president toppled Ann Richards to become Texas gov­ernor. 
Also scoring for management was Kohl, who won a second term as U.S. senator from Wisconsin. The Bucks owner beat Republican state Assemblyman Robert Welch with strong support from women and independents. 
During the closing days of his campaign, Kohl turned to club matters, breaking the stalled negotiations with Glenn Robinson and signing the Purdue star to a contract worth nearly $70 million. 
Bunning, who spent 17 years in the majors and won at least 100 games in each league, re­ceived nearly three-fourths of the 4th District vote in Kentucky against Sally Harris Skaggs, a real-estate agent. 
Bill Graves, a football player turned marathoner, won the Kansas governorship. He start­ed 40 straight ~~ames at end for Kansas Wesleyan in 1971-74. Of late, he's a runner, having competed in the New York City, Dallas and Honolulu marathons. 
"Big Daddy" Don Garlits, the 
retired drag racing superstar, 
spun his wheels in his bid for a 
Florida congressional seat. 
Karen Thurman, the incum­
bent, easily stopped the 62­
year-old, blunt-talking 
Republican from Ocala taking 
his first stab at politics. 
Garlits, a three-time National 
Hot Rod Association champion, 
was the first driver on the cir­
cuit to exceed 200 mph and 250 
mph. 
Another ex-jock to fall hard 
was New York Gov. Mario 
Cuomo, the eloquent voice of 
Democratic liberalism for more 
than a decade. 
Thursday, November I 0, 1994
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 

... ,. • MEN'S BASkETBAll MacLeod, Irish post solid recruiting effort 
By JASON KELLY 
A«ociate Sports Editor 
Though the ink is still wet on their national letters of intent, a quartet of high school seniors have already been hailed as the saviors of the Notre Dame men's basketball team. 
When news of Notre Dame's entry into the Big East confer­ence broke last summer, it piqued the interest of the type of players that the Irish coveted but never captured in recent years. 
The verbal commitments came in a cluster quickly after the conference announcement was made. On Wednesday, the first early-signing day, they made it official. 
And now, the future of Notre Dame basketball: *Gary Bell, a 6-foot-5 forward from Joliet, Ill. *Doug Gottlieb, a 6-foot-1 guard from Tustin, Calif. 
*Phil Hickey, a 6-foot-11. 290-pound center from Wellsboro, Pa. 
*Antoni Wyche, a 6-foot-5 guard from Schenectady, N.Y. 
They will join Notre Dame in 1995-96, its inaugural season in the Big East. 
The group brings a mixed bag of skills. 
Bell has been compared in shape and skill to Charles Barkley. His scoring and rebounding prowess earned 



Great Midwest eyes break-up 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
The University of Dayton is apparently left out of a develop­ing new athlet.ic conference. St. Louis, Marquette, DePaul and Alabama-Birmingham could be in. 
But nobody will say for sure yet. Welcome to the ever­changing world of college ath­letics. 
University of Cincinnati presi­dent Joseph Steger and University of Memphis presi­dent V. Lane Hawlins told the other presidents from the Great Midwest Conference this week that they are taking their schools out of the GMC to form a new all-sports league. 
The presidents of Cincinnati, Memphis, Louisville, Tulane,, Southern Mississippi and Houston talked in a conference Monday about forming the new 

, ­
him a third-place finish in the Illinois Mr. Basketball voting as a junior. 
Gottlieb is the quarterback of the bunch. lie's a pure point guard, averaging 19.7 points and nine assists a game last year. He turned down UCLA, where his parents have season tickets, to play at Notre Dame. 
llickey offers size that hasn't been seen in an Irish uniform since Keith Tower departed three years ago. A 25-point scorer a year ago, he also clogged the middle for 14 rebounds a game. But, most importantly, his size and strength ensure that he won't be pushed around in the college game. 
Wyche, a better than 50-per­cent shooter from 3-point dis­tance last year, brings a deft scoring touch to the backcourt, along with the versatility to play either point guard or shooting guard. 
Irish coach John MacLeod has a reputation as a tireless recruiter, but hasn't had much to show for it before this year. Now, with no small thanks to the Big East, Notre Dame is a resurgent recruiting force. 
"This is a good crew, one that will make major contributions," MacLeod said. "In previous years we were often nipped at the wire by other schools, this year we got what we went after. Fans will enjoy watching this group." 
conference. Those schools would form the minimum six that the NCAA requires for a conference. It still doesn't have a name. 
"Dayton was not extended an invitation," said Ted Kissell, the school's athletic director. 
Steger said the league would consist of 10 members. He would not identify them. But the matter was discussed in a conference of GMC presidents Monday. 
Reportedly asked to join were Marquette, DePaul, Alabama­Birmingham and St. Louis. Chuck Neinas, executive direc­tor of the College Football Association, wouldn't confirm or deny reports they were in­vited. Neinas has been working with the presidents. 
The new league would begin play next year in all sports but Division I-A football. 

IU, Purdue sign recruits 
Associated Press 
Purdue's defending Big Ten champion Boilermakers, who lost Glenn Robinson a year early, awaited the return of let­ters of intent Wednesday from three recruits for the 1995-96 basketball season. 
One of them, 6-foot-8 forward Luther Clay, was a prep school teammate of current Purdue freshmen Chad Austin and Brad Miller at Maine Central Institute. Clay has been on ev­ery recruiting analyst's top 10 list. 
The other newcomers ex­pected to formally commit to Purdue during the NCAA early signing period that began Wednesday are 6-1 Alan Eldridge of Fort Wayne Wayne and 6-8 forward Brian Cardinal of Tolono (Ill.) Unity. 

"Luther Clay is the real deal. If Purdue only got Clay, it would be a stud class," said Dave Kaplan, who rates Clay eighth nationally and produees the Windy City Houndball Review in Deerfield, Ill. 
Besides Eldridge, the only other Indiana high school play­er ticketed to a Big Ten school so far is 6-8 Courtney James of Indianapolis Ben Davis, to Minnesota. 
Ben Davis teammate Damon Frierson, a 6-3 forward, plans to play at Miami (Ohio) of the Mid-American Conference, and two other Giants, 6-3 Ahmed Bellamy and 6-5 Ben Laeey, plan to attend Indiana-Purdue at Indianapolis. 
Others who signed Wednesday included Merrillville lligh Sehool team­mates T . .J. Lux and Brett Fedak. 
Lux, a 6-8 forward, signed with Northern Illinois, and Fedak. a 6-6 guard-forward, signed with Toledo. 
Among other players from Indiana schools expeeted to sign are Marcus Wilson of South Bend Hiley, with Evansville; Andy Hirschy of NorthWood, with Butler; and Travis Inskeep of Madison, with Eastern Kentucky. 
Bloomington North's Duany Duany, another top Indiana high school recruit, is waiting to see if more colleges show interest in him. 


1994 STUDENTS WITH MOTHER TERESA 
SAINT MARY'S SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM OPEN TO ALL ND/SMC STUDENTS 
CHALLENGING ACADEMIC PROGRAM FOCUSING ON THE ASIAN WORLD 16 SEMESTER CREDITS APPLICABLE TOWARDS CORE OR MAJOR REQUIREMENTS 
OPPORTUNITY TO TRAVEL AND STUDY IN. MANY COUNTRIES OF FAR EAST, SOUTHEAST ASIA, SOUTH ASIA, EASTERN AND WESTERN EUROPE. 
COST: A SEMESTER'S SMC TUITION -ROOM -BOARD PLUS A SURCHARGE. 
INFORMATION MEETING-TONIGHT! THURSDAY, NOVEMBER I0 1994 7 PM HAGGAR PARLOR-SAINT MARY'S FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: DR. C. PULLAPILLY MADELEVA 336.SMC. 284-4468/4474 
-
-
1994 STUDENTS AT THE TAJ MAHALL 

t 

----------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------. 

Thursday, November 10, 1994 FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
T [AN' l3Ec1EVE lr-ll A 
"D-'1" r Gar A "D" cr 
(Y\~ l3•o Te ~r-II 
VE Nf-VEI! 1-\At> '"1'""'6 
LESS THAN AN "A. IN m'1 L.n:. 
:r'(\'\ Ttlt<Ov6H I/ 
He:i NowlitoopER · 
(Y\ommA AcwA~s SA·~ "L• 
Is LII<E A"'Bo~ OF Clloc.o ­
LAn;.s1 'fou No:v<'-1< 
i<No"' /,J~A,­
/•v 0ot<I'IA 
GE"T"-" 
"'-----­


DILBERT 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ro-T..,..,.,,.,..,, 
Et::::-+.=+==-t 
~~WtJII 13 Symbol -....:::=-+-:::~ 18 Nosegay ~~+"-i 22 Bubble 
machine F-+~~~ 24 Dr. Ore's specialty ID~]~~~~ 25 Laugh maker Louis -:::+.:::-+.:::+=-! 26 Declare =+:=+-:-+:::-1 27 Ewe said it! 
Acoustic Cafe 

Every Thursday night in LaFortune 9 p.m. to midnight 
W\-1t..T t>.R£ '10\J 1101". 
~0\I'R.E. GOINEs 10 B£. 
~IE FOR SC\\OOL! 
1\URR~ UP fl.t-.10 P\JI -.~v 
iOIJR CLOT\1~5 00 R\~T.' 
I'LL SHOW YOU HOW A 
WELL-DESIGNED PROCESS CAN COMPENSAIE FOR 
YOUR SLOTH, APATHY 
AND ALL-AROUND 
INCOMPETENCE 
67 Bare &&Gaining currency? 
69 80's TV sleuths Jonathan and Jennifer 
70 Accouterment 
DOWN 
1 Pedestal part 2007's alma mater 3 Spot in the 
ocean 4 Auto­5Cincode­
(Mexican holiday) &Height 7 Scenic-view spot a Purpose 
9 From-Z 10 Address for a French friend 
11 SALT participant 
12 Close (in on) 
\ 

The Observer • TODAY page 23 


"Look. You had five bones, right? Your friend Zooky comes over, stays awhile, then leaves. Now you have four bones, right? ... You don't have to be a 'Lassie' to figure this one out." 
Peter Evans, from the University of California­}Jerkeley, wUI speak ()I). "East Asian ModelS, North AD1erican Iqeology, ~nd the Fu~ure of the Latin American State" today at 8:00 p.m, in the Auditorium 9f the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Pax Christi Prayer Action will be having a prayer­a¢tiPnonFri9ay. Novetn.ber.11 forSt. Martin of Tows Day'starting ~~ 12:30 p.m. at Stonehenge. The prayer­a¢tion will :be concerning conseientous objection. ROTC, and. the Peace of Christ on the Notre Dame
trliJ11Pt1S· ~' 
DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
CoNSolA'T"iON. 
r WAS f.\A'!"'D-PRESSE-l> . 
BILL WATTERSON 
11'5 SMl \-10W SOME l'ffiP\..£ Cf..t.l'\ \it>.NI)LE ·A. L\TIL£ 'lt>.RIET'!. 



Puzzle by Randolph Ross 
29 Bemoans 30 Grazing site 31 Practical 32 Cobbled 33 Mom's bra 36Tex-­
(cooking style) 38 Minn. neighbor 40 Palindromic 
preposition 43 Mineral suffix 44 Fraternity 
characters 
TIH 
45 Pump numbers 48God, in 
Judaism 49 Rheinland city 51 Wharf 52 Press 53 In the near 
future 55 Combo 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 


.,,:."fhe Cll$iwl(a Cent~r presen~s 'an AIJ1~rican Catholic Stud~es Seminar entitled,· "How·th¢ Media Covers Catholicism: }letlections of a Perpetrator," today at 4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Ubrary Lounge. The presenter will be Peter Steinfels, Welch Visiting Professor ot,f.;\merycan Stuqies and religion writer for ~4e New YorkTimes. 
If you see ne!ws happening, call The Observer at 631-5323 
56 Way off 57 Microwave, in 
slang sa Fateful day 59 Tags on 62 Singer Sumac 63 Negative 
correlative 64 Giant star 
• 
-

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Rational belief m God 6 Tee off 11 Terrorist's weapon 14 Addled 15 Scout master? 16 Brief time 17 Forgiving country singer? 19 B.O. announcement 20 Ruler measure 21 Ruth topper, 1974 23 Smith or Jones 27 Sick country singer? 33 Radii neighbors 34 Dueling method 
35 Energy source 37 Doubles team member 39 Fix the shower 
wall 41 Attention 42 Flintstones pet 4& Seiko 
competitor 47 Tired country singer? 50 Likes 
immediately 51 Put down 54 Modern site of 
ancient 1/lyria 60 Coffee server 61 Comical 
country singer? 65 In the past 66 Ham it up 
AS YOUR CONSULTANT1 I'LL TELL YOU f-\OW TO IMPROVE YOUR BUSINESS 
PROCESSES 


.._,_ 
SPORTS 

page 24 Thursday, November 10, 1994 
• WOMEN'S INTERHAll 

Off-Campus squad goes its own way 

A team which 
didn't exist last 
year is among 
this year's best 
By MICHAEL DAY Sports Writer 
Unique. 
Perhaps that is the word that best describes the women's Off­Campus lnterhall football team. 
This is a team that has rarely practiced. A team composed of just 17 players, less than any other lnterhall team. And with 0-C unable to field a girls' squad last year, not much was expected of the team heading into the season. 
So how Off-Campus has com­piled a 5-1-1 record and earnnd a semifinal showdown with Siegfried would appear to defy all logic. 

Think again. 

0-C is a collection of top notch athletes who previously played and starred for compet­ing dorm teams over the past three seasons. All they needed, according to co-captain and starting quarterback Nikole Neidlinger, was the opportunity to compete. 
"We knew we had tons of tal­ent," said Neidlinger. "H took awhile for everyone to get use to playing together, but we have a lot of confidence right now." 
However, due to the lac~ of interest last year, it was ques­tionable prior to the season as to whether or not Off-Campus would be able to form a team. 
Senior co-captain Kelly Guerin 
was confident that there would 
be enough participation, so she 
subsequently sought permission 'from HecSports. 
Living off campus and search­ing for a squad to play for. the 16 other girls (15 seniors and one junior) were eagnr to sign up when they were approached about playing football this fall. The women's interest in com­peting has paid dividends from the start. 
Off-Campus, led by coaches Tom Ysursa and Pete Couri, is solid, if not spectacular, on both sides of the ball. The fab­ulous foursome of quarterbaek Neidlinger, tailbacks Sarah Donelly and Megan Allen, and 
see 0-C/ page 14 


• WoMEN's SoccER 
Looking for goals 
Dream season comes at opposite end of careers for senior, freshman 
By RIAN AKEY And now, four years later, when Associatr Sports Editor Thompson and the top-ranked Irish are considered favorites to advance to the 
When Tiffany Thompson decided to NCAA final four in Portland, Oregon,play soecer for Notre Dame, she could the senior co-captain can hardly believe only hope that some day she would be a 
that she doesn't have to hope any 
part of a national championship con­longer.
tender. 
"Four years ago, I knew that Notre The Irish. then, were a team on the 
Dame's program would be big some 
fringe of the top-20, a program in its 
day," Thompson said, "but I didn't infancy looking to be led in the right 
think I would still be around when it 
direction. 
happened." 
Even though Thompson is surprised that the Irish have become one of the nation's best teams so quickly, the rea­son for Notre Dame's success is no mys­tery to her. 
"It all starts with Coach [Chris] Petrucelli's recruiting," Thompson said. "He really knows how to put the per­sonnel together." 

-
Thompson, a member of Petrucelli's 
first recruiting 
class and one of 
his first blue 
chip recruits,
'To come into a program 
has seen the
and be ranked No. 1 right 
team's talent soar with each 
away has been incredible. 
subsequent
-Freshman 
freshman class. 
And this year's 1----------'--...J rookies have 
been no exception. 
The Irish class of 1998 has been led by Midwestern Collegiate Conference newcomer of the year Holly Manthei. Manthei currently leads the Irish with 23 assists, a single-season Notre Dame record. 
Unlike Thompson, who came into a 
Holly Manthei 



IRISH BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame coach John MacLeod signs his best recruiting class ever. 
SEE PAGE22 





Friday, November 11, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 


~JOCK STRIP 
There are dozens of reasons why 
PREY­

TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS
this game is big. • • or not so big 

1. Nebraska(39) 10-0-0 1525 1
W
ell, it's hardly the Game of (That's good.) Miami beat them earlier the Century. In fact, there this year because they talked better 

2. Penn St.(22) 8-0-0 1507 2 
are probably some pretty trash and did better gyrations after tack-good Indiana high school les. Oh, yeah, and they played better 

3. Auburn(1) 9-0-0 1430 3 
football matchups that have more hype football too. 

4. Florida 7-1-0 1321 4 
than Saturday's Notre Dame-Florida And don't forget Nebraska and Penn 

5. Miami 7-1-0 1283 5
State game. State, who have pretty smooth roads to But this is still a game with pretty big their respective bowl games. So much 
6. Alabama 9-0-0 1239 6 ramifications. L....----..J for a game with national championship 
7. Colorado 8-1-0 1194 7
First of all, consider this. The more Mike. Norbut ramifications. games Florida State wins, the more Associate But the Seminoles are ranked eighth in 
8. Florida St. 7-1-0 1163 8 pairs of shoes they get to pick out from Sports Editor the nation. (That's bad.) That means that 
9. Texas A&M 8-0-1 1016 11
Foot Locker when the season ends. on paper, the chances for the Irish to 

10. Colorado St. 8-1-0 846 14
Okay, so that was low. But they deserve it. win are about as high as Scott Bentley's chances Here's a legitimate reason why this is a huge of getting a date to a Notre Dame SYR. 11 . Kansas St. 6-2-0 825 15 game. Bobby Bowden turned 65 on Tuesday. A But wait, Holtz had two weeks to prepare for 
12. Utah 8-1-0 696 9
win would be a great way to reach the retire-this colossal event. ment milestone, especially a win over Notre He's 8-1 at Notre Dame while having an off 13. Arizona 7-2-0 686 18 Dame. And ABC will be there every step of the week to ready his troops for battle. Well, he's ac­
~14. Syracuse 6-2-0 650 10
way... tually 7-1-Notre Dame's last win over Navy Okay, so nobody cares. Except for maybe Lou didn't count. But that's still a stellar record. 15. Oregon 7-3-0 647 21 Holtz. One of those wins came over Florida State last 
16. Virginia Tech 7-2-0 641 17
"I did not know that it's Bobby's 65th birth-year, too, so at least most of these players know 
-

day," the Irish coach said (with emphasis on the that they can beat the Seminoles. ~17. usc 6-2-0 632 22 65th part) at his press conference Tuesday. "I "It's important for our football team to sit back 
~18.Duke 8-1-0 614 23 
will probably call him today and wish him a and look at ourselves, and realize that we have a 

19. Michigan 6-3-0 603 20
happy birthday." chance against Florida State," Holtz said. Now, if only Bowden really did retire, like old A chance is really all the Irish need. A little 20. Miss. St. 7-2-0 327 24
,.
men are supposed to do when they reach that time in the Citrus Bowl, a couple hits that don't 
6-2-0 301 13
age. That would be big. give the players concussions, and the Notre 

But in reality, it doesn't matter how old Dame players might get a little confidence. 6-3-0 249 12 Bowden is. He will always run that flashy four And with a little confidence, maybe the Irish 
L~ ~~: ~~~~:~gton 
... 23. BYU. 8-2-0 174 25
receiver, shotgun formation. He'll always say could get a win. And that would mean the inside 

24. Washington St. 6-3-0 163 16
things like (try to imagine the southern drawl), track to a bowl. .. "We gotta work are butts off," and, "Ya know, "Our bowl options rest with somebody else," MIAMI 25. Boston College 5-2-1 122 he's an athalete. He can throw harder than ay Holtz said. "Any chances we had we lost when damn neah neveh seen." we lost to Boston College and BYU." 
And he'll always kiss the rear ends of the C'mon Coach, you mean you don't even think • SPORTS EXTRA STAFF sportswriters, who bought his act last year and about it? 
EDITOR: George Dohrmann 
awarded him a national championship. "The only thing I'm concerned about is getting Speaking of the national championship, that's a sixth win," Holtz continued. "This would MANAGING EDTIOR: Jason Kelly another reason why this is a big game. The assure a winning record." 
ASSOCIATE EDITOR: Mike Norbut 
Seminoles have a chance at another title this Whoa, stop the presses. I knew there had to be year. a reason for this being a big game, maybe even a CONTRIBUTORS: Tim Sherman, Andy Cabiness Okay, so it's not much of a chance at all. game of the week. Eat your heart out, ABC. 
GRAPHIC DESIGN: Chris Mullins 

-
-
HOURS: 
Mooday-Thursday 11:00a.m.-1:00am. Frilay &Saturday 11 :00 am -3:00 a.m. Sunday Noon -1:00 am. 

lt'l time to call your Paf1al • 271-1117 
State 

, r--NiftY Nine1ilfi -, r--7at';NiUhi !;;ci:i -, r---o';; 1'1" La;g;--, I 1-14" large I I 1-1611 Extr~ large I I (9:00p.m.untilclosing) I I O$ne Toppginy I 1 1Topping Pizza 1 1 Two Toppmgs 1 1 1-14" large 1 1 1
6 5 

I wi!~d2 ~:e~sd::icck~ke I I s950 I I 1Topping Pizza I I Two 14" L~rge I 
I $ I I I I $ 9 5 I I One Toppmg I 
I 10~0 I I .. . . ~ I I 5~ I I $11 ~~ I 
L 
Addiliona/ Toppings~ each. Not valid with 1J11f other CIJIJ{JtJIL I I AdditiDnal TOJlllflgs 11.25 each. Not valid ttith any other coupon. I LAddiOOna/ Toppings~ each. Not valid ttith /JI1f other coo{JtJIL I I Additional Toppings~ each. Not valid ttith any other CIJIJfJDIL I 
-------~ ~-------~ -------~ ~-------~ 


Moments before the start of Saturday's Notre Dame/Florida Make the throw. Run. bab~ State game at Orlando's Citrus run. 
nal-caller. He is the newest member of the Winnipeg Blue Bomber and begins practice with the CFL franchise some­time next week. 
"Winnipeg has had my rights from the start and are very happy with me as a prospect," McDougal said. "''m excited about the opportunity I have here." 
It is almost too fitting that McDougal, a Florida native, landed in the CFL. It is an un­derdog league which has al­ways compared poorly to the National Football League. The league has McDougal written all over it, a chance for the chanceless, a league for those who strive to survive in football. Ask former Heisman Trophy winner Doug Flutie. The NFL said he couldn't, so he went to the CFL and did. 
"People don't really talk about the CFL but it is a good league and there are some great players here," McDougal said. "I just hope things work out for me." 
You get the feeling that things will always work out for McDougal. He wasn't talented enough to lead Notre Dame, not gifted enough to beat out then­freshman Ron Powlus. But when Powlus fell to injury, McDougal led the Irish to a 10­1 record, and if not for a sea­son-ending loss to Boston College, the national title. 
His finest moment came against the Seminoles. He was a modest 9-of-18 for 108 yards passing, but he did all he was asked. No interceptions, no fumbles, no mistakes. 
"That was a very special game," McDougal said. "It's great to have been a part of it." 
Despite his record as a starter, McDougal was not se­lected in April's NFL draft. But he was offered a tryout with the Los Angeles Rams and went into training camp with his fin­gers crossed. 
But McDougal never really got the chance to show his skills. Chris Miller and Chris Chandler were signed by the Rams in the off-season and got most of the repetitions in prac­tice so they could learn the Ram offense. McDougal got few snaps and few chances and was released. 
"I think the Rams wanted me and were happy with the way I played, but with two new guys coming in, and getting paid big money it wasn't the best situa­tion for me." 
He hopes the best situation is in Winnipeg, living in the province of Manitoba, a place he had never heard of before joining the Blue Bombers. 
"I like it here. It's a nice city and I'm slowly getting used to it. The nice thing is that season here ends soon so I will miss the really cold weather and be able to go to Florida to be with my family." 
McDougal wishes he was in the Sunshine State Saturday and on the sidelines with his old teammates. 
It is not the competitiveness on the field that McDougal misses, but the relationships Bowl, a young quarterback will sit on an unfamiliar couch in an apartment that feels nothing like home. 
off.  
"I miss the guys and the peo­ 
ple that were like family to me  
at Notre Dame," he said.  
"There is a closeness and a to­ 
getherness with all the play­ 
ers."  
McDougal's situation with the  
Blue Bombers mirrors the sce­ 
nario he faced as a senior at  
Notre Dame. Veteran Matt  
Dunnigan is in his final season  
as the Blue Bombers quarter­ 
back, leaving the starting job  
for 1995 to McDougal and Keith  
McCants. Like McDougal,  
McCants remembers the colle­ 
giate spotlight. He was starting  
quarterback for Nebraska in  
the mid-eighties.  
"It's just like when I was be­ 
hind Rick (Mirer) at Notre  
Dame," McDougal said. "I will  
just work hard and everything  
will work out. All I can do is try  
my best."  
While he is trying to play foot­ 
ball, McDougal will also be try­ 
ing to keep his mother from  
worrying. "Being the only child  
I have to come home almost  
every day," McDougal said.  
"She worries about me but I  
will be home soon."  
At his other home, Notre  
Dame, the season hasn't gone  
as planned for his old team­ 
mates, a fact McDougal feels  
will change for the better.  
"They've had a tough time  
with the injuries and some  
tough losses," McDougal said.  
"I've talked to Lee (Becton) and  
Bobby Taylor and Brian  
(Hamilton). They are not hav­ 
ing the same kind of season as  
last year but they are still  
working hard and I think things  
will start getting better."  
That new beginning may start  
Saturday in Orlando. The  
Seminoles are 12-point fa­ 
vorites and brimming with con­ 
fidence.  
"It will be a tough game, but  - 
I'm confident Notre Dame can  
pull it out."  
At some point during  
Saturday's meeting, McDougal  
admits, he will lose himself in  
the game.  
He will wish greatly that he  - 
was not so far away, not feeling  
the cold seep in through poorly  
insulated windows, but the heat  
on his arms and see the shine  
of the sun off his teammates'  
gold helmets.  
But all he can do is sit a little  
closer to the screen and let the  
memories fill his head and  
hope, as he always has, that the  
underdog will win.  


Even though he is over a thousand miles away from the action, the quarterback will live the game like a player on the field. 
lie will creep closer to the television with the opening kickoff and even closer when the Notre Dame offense first takes the field. For the next few hours he will talk little as his mind runs through each play with the Irish ofTense. Get rid ofit, get rid ofit. Watch the linebacker. The safety's cheat­ing . That's the blitz. audible. 
And if the game is close, the quarterback will pace the room. and on the key plays sit on the floor, his face a foot from the television screen. 
"Sure, I'm going to wish I was there,H Kevin McDougal said. "I miss it, but all I can do is hope the guys play their best." 
It was only a year ago that McDougal, the senior quarter­back that no one wanted and for whom few predicted great­ness, led Notre Dame to a 31­24 win over Florida State at Notre Dame Stadium. But on the one-year anniversary of his greatest moment, McDougal is far from the pageantry that ac­companied him as the Irish sig-



~W®OJJuQ 
/ 
~~ 
}/­
Friday, November 11, 1994 
Game 
continued from page1 
Seminoles swaggered into Notre Dame Stadium wearing shamrock hats-they appar­ently paid for those-meant to mock the Irish tradition. A tra­dition that they didn't even honor with indignance, but rather slapped with indiffer­ence. 
Notre Dame, unusually the underdog at home, tried to ex­plain why it belonged on the same field as a team some con­sidered the best ever to play college football. 
It made for great theater. 
College football's perennial powerhouse fighting to protect its reputation against the pre­cocious newcomers. With a na­tional championship on the line. Perfect. 
And the game was every bit as exciting as the hype sug­gested. Notre Dame took an early lead and almost watched it slip away. Ward had one last play to put Florida State ahead. But, as time expired, along came Shawn Wooden to swat the Seminoles away. 
And Notre Dame lived hap­pily ever after. Or at least for a week. 
I
t seems like a fairy tale now, that magical moment in Notre Dame football lore when the Irish felled the mighty Seminoles. A victory for the ages that sud­denly seems quite aged. 
Newspaper accounts of that afternoon have not yet yel­lowed, but the game is already just clutter for Heritage Hall. As Bobby Bowden might say, it don't mean nothin' now. 
Not that it ultimately meant anything last year, considering which team took part in the post-season award ceremony. 
And Notre Dame-Florida State II certainly carries no im­portant implications this sea­son. 
"It's going to be a vacation," Irish coach Lou Holtz joked last winter, before taking a poke at the pollsters. "We're going to Disney Land and Epcot Center. We're not going to worry about Florida State .at all because it's obvious that the outcome of the game has no effect on the na­tional championship." 
Holtz was more prophetic than he hoped to be, though Florida State remains on the fringe of the title picture, like an extraneous thumb in a va­cation slide of Space Mountain. 
A win Saturday and the Seminoles are allowed to stay in the picture for at least an­other ~eek. A loss and they're airbrushed off. 
So this is what it has come to only a year later. Notre Dame is little more than a spoiler. playing for the right to go to a bowl where it doesn't belong. And Florida State, swamped in scandal, struggles to save face. 
ere have you gone, 

Kevin McDougal? 
And Charlie Ward? 
And Aaron Taylor? And Jeff Burris? And Bryant Young? 
"Last year, Florida State had some question marks, like whether or not they could stop our running game," Holtz said. "What concerns me the most this year is that all the ques­tion marks are on our side." 
Florida State returns much of last year's team, with the 
The Observer/ Jake Peters 
This year, it comes with no label other than the pre-pack­aged Texaco Star Classic title (with a free plug for Foot Locker. courtesy of Florida State). Beavis and Butthead are more popular than Holtz and Bowden. 
"Me and ol' Lou, we both have complexes," Bowden said. "One year, you're competing for the national championship and everybody's talking about you. The next, they're ignoring you." 
So anyway, about this Oregon Rose Bowl thing, do you really think the Ducks have a chance to ... 
Oh, sorry coach, were you saying something? "This is still a very big game," Bowden insisted. But for very different rea­sons. 
The scoreboard at the end of last year's game told the whole story. 
glaring exception of Ward, who is now the occasional quarter­back of the New York Knicks' offense in the NBA. Danny Kanell has been a capable, if not nearly as combustible, fill­in at quarterback. 
Notre Dame has hardly a sin­gle familiar face from last year's game. McDougal is a quarterback in Canada and Burris, Taylor, Young, et al are playing Sundays on Fox instead of Saturdays on NBC. 
All those exits added to Notre Dame's woes and detracted from Saturday's excitement. 
College football started brac­ing itself for the tremors of this rematch last January 2, believ­ing that both teams would again be worthy of all the attention. 
When the made the final 2,500 tickets available to the general public last June, the ducats disappeared in six min­utes. Now, it's easier to be a Jehovah's Witness than a Notre Dame-Florida State tick­et scalper. 

Nobody seems to care about this game, except, of course, the participants. 
"This one is strictly for per­sonal pride," Bowden said. "All the hoopla that was involved last year is gone." 
That's the funny thing about Saturday's game: The hype is that there is no hype. Participants are being asked questions about not being asked questions. 
Last year. when it was billed as something like The Biggest Game Since The Beginning Of Time, everybody wanted to hear Lou Holtz lament and Bobby Bowden drawl. 



--------------·---------------------~--------------~-------------------­
page 5 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, November 11, 1994 ­

.. 

TEAM STATS NO Opp SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2 3 4 T Edwards 5 58 11.6 0 39 First downs 168 157 Notre Dame 40 82 65 56 243 McBride 4 45 11.2 0 19 Opponents 23 47 24 75 169 
Total yards 3216 2503 ALL-PURPOSE Rush Rec Ret Tot Avg Total yards per game 402.0 312.9 RUSHING Yds/Gm No Yds Avg TO Lg Zellars 359 78 59 496 99.2 Total offensive plays 553 569 Kinder 83.1 108 665 6.2 4 41 Kinder 665 12 0 677 84.6 Avg. yards per play 5.82 4.40 Zellars 71.8 46 359 7.8 1 62 Mayes 0 576 0 576 72.0 
Becton 49.2 40 197 4.9 2 37 Mosley 165 86 142 393 56.1 
Rushing yards 1783 945 Edwards 36.5 46 292 6.3 2 37 Becton 197 22 0 219 54.8 Rushing yards per game 222.9 118.1 Mosley 23.6 28 165 5.9 4 24 Edwards 292 58 0 350 43.8 Rushing plays 371 312 Farmer 16.4 26 131 5.0 0 22 Stafford 21 220 29 270 33.8 
Passing yards 1433 1558 Thorne 2.3 5 14 2.8 0 4 Farmer 131 15 60 206 25.8 Passing yards per game 179.1 194.8 PASSING Comp Att Pet YdsTO lnt Lg Passes completed 94 152 Powlus 84 160 52.5 1304 15 7 60 SCORING TO 2XP 1XP FG Sat Pts Passes attempted 182 257 Krug 7 16 43.8 98 1 1 31 Mayes 8 1 0-0 0 0 50 Passes intercepted 9 6 Schroffner 0 0 22-22 5 0 37 
Fumbles I Fumbles lost 18 I 9 23 I 12 RECEIVING Rec Yds Avg TO Lg Kinder 4 0 0-0 0 0 24 Penalties-Penalty yards 49-388 41-359 Mayes 30 576 19.2 8 60 Mosley 4 0 0-0 0 0 24 Third down conversions 40-102 36-116 Stafford 17 220 12.9 3 23 Becton 3 0 0-0 0 0 18 
Percentage 39.2 31.0 Zellars 7 78 11.1 1 21 Stafford 3 0 0-0 0 0 18 Fourth down conversions 7-10 10-14 Mosley 6 86 14.3 0 37 Cengia 0 0 3-5 4 0 15 
No.Name Poa. HI. WI. YR 
1 Derrick Mayes WR S·1 205 JR
NOTRE DAME 
LOU HOLTZ 
2 LeShane Saddler s 5·11 19S SR 
2 Dan Farrell WR s-o 1SS SR
Sept. 3 at Northwestern 42-15, W 
3 Rob Powlus QB S-4 218 so 
4 Lee Becton RB s-o 191 SR
Sept. 10 MICHIGAN 24-26, L 
Ninth season at Notre Dame 
5 Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 179 so
Sept. 17 at Michigan State 21-20, W 
7 Leon Blunt QB 5-9 173 FR
Career Record at ND: 82-22-1 
8 Ivory Covington DB 5-11 160 FR
Sept. 24 PURDUE 39-21, W 
9 LaRon Moore CB 5-9 193 SR 

Oct. 1 STANFORD 34-15, W 
Against Florida State: 1-0 10 Mike Perona QB 6-1 186 so 10 Larry Wright ATH 5-11 190 FR
Oct. 8 at Boston College 11-30, L Highlights: Won the 1988 national 
11 Tom Krug QB 6-5 199 so 
12 Gus Ornstein QB 6-5 210 FR
Oct. 15 BYU 14-21, L 
championship and finished second in 
12 Scott Cengia K 5-9 1S7 FR

Oct. 29 NAVY 58-21, W 13 Brian Ford p 8-4 193 so
both 1989 and 1993. 
13 John Bishop CB S-0 171 so
Nov. 12 at Florida State 12:00 ET 
15 Paul Rogers QB 6-1 204 so 15 Allen Rossum DB 5-9 175 FR 1S Brian Perry s 6-1 197 so 
Nov. 19 AIR FORCE 1:35 

Nov. 26 at Southern California 8:00 1S Mark McKenna QB 5-10 188 so 17 Brian Magee s 5-10 201 JR 18 Clkai Champion SE 5-11 176 so 18 Chris Wachtel p 6-0 200 so 20 Malcom Johnson WR 6-5 193 FR 21 Bobby Taylor CB 6-3 201 JR 22 Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 183 SR 23 Billy Gibbs ss 5-10 178 so 24 Cha~es Stafford WR 5-10 183 SR 25 Randy Kinder RB 6-1 200 so 26 Mark Monohan s s-o 178 JR 27 Tracy Graham CB 5-10 190 SR 28 Ken Barry RB 8-1 195 FR 29 Brian Meter CB 5-7 152 SR 
LAST TIME 
RECORDS 
'
Notre Dame 31 Tied 1-1 
31 Robert Fanner RB 6-1 210 so 
32 Clement Stokes RB e-o 200 FR
Florida State 24 Last ND win 
33 John Mclaughlin DB 6-4 225 FR 
34 Ray Zellars RB 5-11 221 SR
31-24, 1993 
35 Richard Rolle WR 6-1 159 FR 36 Jeremy Sample LB 5-11 223 SR
Shawn Wooden (right} Last FSU win 
37 Travis Davis s 6-() 197 SR 38 Sim Stokes CB S-2 191 so
knocked down Charlie 19-13, 1981 
39 Kinnon Tatum LB S-1 209 so 40 Kevin Carretta LB 6-1 227 JR
Ward's final pass last year Streak 1 by ND 
41 Joe Babey LB 6-2 225 JR ' 42 Alton Maiden LB 6-4 248 SR
to secure the victory and a At the Citrus Bowl 

43 Bill Wagasy LB 6-2 228 JR '44 Marc Edwards RB 6-2 221 so
number one ranking in the The Irish have never 
45 Jeff Kilburg DE 6-4 258 so 47 Bill Mitoulas LB 6-0 210 FR
polls. played at the Citrus 
48 Renaldo Wynn LB 6-3 254 JR 49 Lyron Cobbins LB 6-2 230 so ' 
Bowl. 
50 Greg Stec c 6-2 265 SR 51 Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 245 so 52 Gennalne Holden DE 6-4 252 SR 53 Jim Kordas OG 6-5 269 SR 54 Justin Goheen LB 6-2 228 SR 55 Oliver Gibson NG 6-3 275 SR 56 Steve Annbruster c e-o 220 SR 57 Rick Kaczenski c S-4 251 so 56 Jeremy Nau LB 6-4 228 SR 59 Jon Bergman LB 6-1 220 SR 60 Bert Berry LB 8-4 221 so
-...~--·­
61 Jeff Kramer LB 6-3 215 FR
IRISH IRISH 
62 Mike McCullough OG 6-3 295 JR 63 Mike O'Donovan LB 6-2 210 SR
TE 80-0scar McBride, 6-5,271, SA LE 48-Aenaldo Wynn, 6-3, 244, JA
OFFENSE DEFENSE 
64 Steve Misetic OG 6-5 280 JR 65 Brett Galley LB 5-9 188 so 66 Kurt Belisle LB 6-3 220 FR 
88-Leon Wallace. 6-3, 275, JR 51-Melvin Dansby, 6-4, 245, SO 
T 95-Chrls Clevenger, 6-7, 250, SO DT 93-Paul GrasmanIs, 6-3, 286, JA 
67 Mark Zataveski c 6-6 300 SR 
90-Brian Hamilton, 6-3, 288, SA 
66 Paul Mickelbart OL 6-4 265 FR 69 David Quist OT 6-5 264 JR 
69-David Quist, 6-4, 289, JR 
G 76-Jeremy Akers, 6-4, 296, JA NG 55-0liver Gibson, 6-2, 275, SA 
70 Mike McGlinn OT 6-6 285 SR 
64-Steve Misetic, 6-4, 291, JR 42-Aiton Maiden, 6-2, 259, JA 
71 Herb Gibson OT S-5 309 SR 72 Ryan Leahy OG 6-4 285 SR
n-Dusty Zeigler, 6·5, 264, JA RE 58-Jeremy Nau, 6-4, 233, SA 
73 Mike Doughty OT 6-8 260 so
>< c
57-Rick Kaczenski, 6-4, 251, SO 52-Germaine Holden, 6-3, 271, SA 
74 Will Lyell c 6-5 274 JR
c 
75 Chris Clevenger OT 6-7 250 so
OLB 2-LeShane Saddler, 5-11, 196, SAG 72-Ryan Leahy, 6-3, 290, SA 
0 
76 Jeremy Akers OT 6-5 286 SR
>< 0
62-Mike McCullough, 6-3, 295, JR 95-Corey Bennett, 6-2, 205, FA 
77 Dusty Zeigler OG 6-6 264 JR
>< 0 
78 Jon Spickelmier OL 6-4 250 FR
ILB 36-Jeremy Sample, 5-11, 229, SAT 73-Mike Doughty, 6-8, 280, SO 
79 Damian Peter OL 6-7 295 FR
>< >< 0
70-Mike McGlinn, 6-5, 297, SA 39-Kinnon Tatum, 5-11, 214, SO 
80 Oscar McBride TE 8-5 258 SR 81 John Lynch WR 6-2 188 JR
>< >< c
QB 3-Aon Powlus, 6-2,217, SO ILB 54-Justin Goheen,6-3,235, SA 

82 Joe Carrol WR 5-10 182 SR
0
c:::t
11-Thomas Krug, 6-4, 200, SO 49-Lyron Cobbins, 6-0, 234, SO 

83 Mike Denvir TE 6-3 231 so
>< 

84 Dan McConnell WR 5-10 178 JR
FL 24-Charles Stafford, 5-9, 187, SA LCB 21-BobbyTaylor, 6-3,214, JA
0 

>< 
85 Ben Herrig WA 5-10 168 JR
0
83-Scott Sollmann, 5-8, 165, SO 15-Ailen Aossum, 5-9, 175, FA 

86 Ben Foos DE 8-4 244 JR 87 Clkal Champion WR 5-11 176 so
SE 1-Derrick Mayes, 6-Q, 199, JA FS 17-Brian Magee,5-9,204, JA 

86 Leon Wallace TE 8-3 275 JR
18-Cikai Champion, 5-11, 176, SO 2-LeShane Saddler, 5-11, 196, SA 

89 TyGoode WR 6-1 173 FR 90 Brian Hamilton DE 6-3 276 SR
TB 25-Aandy Kinder, 6-0, 207, SO SS 9-LaAon Moore, 5-9, 193, SA 

91 Darnell Smith DE 6-5 265 so
5-Emmett Mosley, 5-9, 179, SO 37-Travis Davis, 6-0, 198, SA 

92 Luke Petitgout TE 6-7 260 FR 93 Paul Grasmanls NG 8-3 277 JR
FB 44-Mark Edwards, 6-Q, 228, SO RCB 22-Shawn Wooden, 5-10, 190, SA 

94 Reggie Fleurima NG 6-3 286 SR
31-Robert Farmer, 6-1,210, SO 14-lvory Covington, 5-11, 160, FA 

95 Corey Bennett LB 6-2 205 FR 96 Stefan Schroffner K 5-9 164 SA 97 Corey Redder LB 6-2 215 FA 98 Pete Chryplewlcz TE 6-5 255 JR 99 Cliff Stroud DE 8-3 274 JR 
Friday, November 11, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA page 4 
SEMINOLES 

Opp First downs 42 Total yards 2045 Total yards per game 255.6 Total offensive plays 569 Avg. yards per play 3.59 Rushing yards 996 Rushing yards per game 82.4 Rushing plays 273 Passing yards 1386 Passing yards per game 173.3 Passes completed 141 Passes attempted 296 Passes intercepted 9 Fumbles I Fumbles lost 16 I 10 Penalties-Penalty yards 60-483 Third down conversions 32-133 Percentage 24.1 SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2 30 30  3 32  FSU 78 3854 481.8 620 6.22 1611 173.9 283 2463 307.9 198 337 16 12/8 70-608 53-120 44.2 4 T 41 133  Florida State RUSHING Dunn Preston Crockett J. Green McMillon Long Ellison Busby PASSING KaneII Stark Busby RECEIVING McCorvey Dunn Ellison Cooper  50 126 83 58 317 Yds/Gm No Yds Avg TD Lg 86.6 88 693 7.9 6 63 38.0 43 304 7.1 5 58 31.8 64 254 4.0 10 24 15.4 24 123 5.1 0 17 5.9 14 47 3.4 0 21 3.5 3 28 9.3 0 17 2.5 4 20 5.0 0 16 2.5 7 20 2.9 2 15 Comp Att Pet YdsTD lnt Lg 166 282 58.9 2061 14 12 NA 24 38 63.2 291 3 1 NA 8 17 47.1 111 1 3 NA Rec Yds Avg TD Lg 43 635 14.8 4 62 23 204 8.9 1 53 22 363 16.5 2 45 22 307 14.0 3 48  Messam Pearsall E. Green McMillon Crockett Preston Glenn ALL-PURPOSE Dunn McCorvey Preston Ellison Crockett Cooper Colzie SCORING Crockett Dunn Benched-ly  15 15 14 12 9 9 7 Rush 693 -1 304 0 254 0 0  219 195 151 79 93 85 46 Rec 204 635 85 363 93 307 0  14.6 0 51 13.0 5 29 10.8 1 30 6.6 0 17 10.3 0 20 9.4 0 17 6.6 1 17 Ret Tot Avg 0 897 112.1 13 647 80.9 217 606 75.8 90 453 56.6 0 347 43.4 0 307 38.4 251 251 31.4  
, Andre Cooper 2 Clifton Abraham 2 Samari Rolle 3 scott benlley 3 C.J. Corby's 4 Corey Fuller 4 Robert Hammond 5 Jon Stark 6 Steve Gilmer 6 Troy Saunders 7 Aaron Dely 8 Magic Benton 9 Dan Mowrey 10 Derrick Brooks ,, Devin Bush 12 Thad Busby 13 Danny Kanell 14 Marc Donaldson 14 Cha~es Tom eo 15 Phillip Riley 16 Ma~in Green 18 Sean Hamlet E. G. Green James Colzie Deon Humphrey Pooh Williams Byron Capers Rock Preston Harold Battles Rodney Wells Warrick Dunn Saan Liss Shevin Sm~h 'OMar Ellison Lamarr Glenn lack Crockett lack Morris Kelly Kapowski Tiger McMillon Rendell Long James D'Amico Kendrick Scott Mike Mirando Hank Grant Lamont Green Jason Poppell Jermaine Green Eric Sm~h Daryl Bush Henri Crockett Travis Sherman Tim Sherman James Roberson Todd Rebol John McCorvey Kevin Long Demetro Stephens Clay Shiver Greg Spires Reinard Wilson Sam Cowart Peter Boulware Andy Crowe Anthony Phillips Dale Valente David Walker nm Johnson Chad Bates Lewis Tyre Juan Laureano Gideon Brown Patrick McNeil Tra Thomas Todd Fordham Larry Fleming Greg Frey Danny Campbell Enzo Armella Brian Erb Jesus Hernandez Marcus Long Forrest Conoly Scott Scharinger Melvin Pearsall Terry Davis Kaman Cha~ton Myron Jackson 85 Andre Wadsworth 86 Tyrant Marion 87 Billy Glenn 88 Kez McCorvey 89 Wayne Messam 90 Derrick Alexander Orpheus Roye Chris Cowart Sean Mitchell Julian Pittman Connell Spain Rhodney Williams Melvin Hofland Dulack Guerrier  • • • Pos. Ht. Wt. YR WR 6-2 194 so CB 5-9 185 SR CB 6-1 160 FR K 5-1, 178 so DR 6-3 290 SR CB 5-11 200 SR s 6-3 185 FR QB 6-4 215 JR s 5-10 205 SR CB 5-10 185 FR WR 6-0 175 JR WR 6-0 170 FR K 5-11 206 SR LB 6-1 226 SR s 6-0 205 JR QB 6-3 215 FR QB 6-4 215 JR CB 5-10 206 SR QB 6..() 184 FR WR 5-11 185 JR s 6..() 190 JR s 6-0 216 so WR 5-11 185 FR CB 5-10 160 so s 6-4 215 FR RB 6-1 246 so CB 6-1 194 so RB 5-9 183 FR s 6..() 200 so CB 5-10 185 FR RB 5-9 178 so p 6-4 220 so CB 6..() 191 FR WR 6-1 209 SR RB 6-1 235 FR RB 6-2 245 SR QB 6-2 200 FR K 5-6 120 FR RB 5-9 185 SR RB 6-2 220 JR LB 5-11 230 JR LB 5-10 216 SR CB 5-10 189 SR LB 6-2 224 FR LB 6-3 220 FR s 5-11 189 FR RB 5-8 110 so LB 6-0 217 SR LB 6-2 230 FR LB 6-2 253 so LB 6-1 222 so ATH 5-10 175 so DE 6-4 241 SR LB 6..() 215 JR RB 5-9 158 SR c 6-5 262 FR LB 6-3 230 FR c 6-2 275 JR NG 6-2 260 FR DE 6-2 233 so LB 6-3 239 so DE 6-5 234 FR c 6-3 262 JR OL 6-5 295 FR OL 6-4 292 FR LB 6..() 196 JR OG 6-4 295 JR OG 6-3 269 so OG 6-5 264 JR OT 6-5 283 JR OG 6-2 276 FR OG 6-3 280 SR OT 6-8 319 FR OT 6-5 281 so OG 6-2 255 so OT 6-4 302 JR OG 6-1 240 JR NG 6..() 254 JR DE 6-5 238 FR OT 6-2 288 JR OG 6-3 323 so OT 6-6 325 JR WR 5-10 174 so TE 6-1 242 FR TE 6-3 244 so TE 6-2 242 so TE 6-5 240 FR DE 6-4 256 FR DT 6-2 252 JR TE 6-3 260 SR WR 6..() 185 SR WR 6-4 210 SR DE 6-5 282 JR DT 6-4 275 JR DE 6-2 240 SR DE 6-4 255 FR DE 6-3 280 FR NG 6-2 285 so DT 6-4 266 so LB 6-2 SR DT 6-2 SR  THE STRATEGIST ••• Bobby Bowden 19th season at Florida State Career Record at FSU: 173-4 7-3 Against Notre Dame: 1-1 Highlights: Won his first national cham­pionship as a coach in 1993 when the Seminoles defeated Nebraska in the Orange Bowl. CITRUS BOWL Orlando, Florida Home of the Texaco Star Classic Capacity 70,000 Surface Natural Grass Irish at the Citrus Bowl 0-0 b IDA STATE FLORIDA S SE 88-Kez McCorvey, 6-0,185, SA OFFENSE DEFENSE89-Wayne Messam, 6-4,210, SO ST 77-Jesus Hernandez, 6-2, 288, JR 78-Marcus Long, 6-3, 320, SO SG 66-Lewis Tyre, 6-5, 250, JR 64-Tim Johnson, 6-4, 295, JR c 53-Clay Shiver, 6-2, 275, JR >C 051-Kevin Long, 6-5, 265, FR _ cTG 59-Patrick McNeil, 6-3, 280, SA c 65-Chad Bates, 6-3, 269, SO >< c><. cTT 71-Todd Fordham, 6-5,281, SO '>C. >< c67-Juan Laureano, 6-5, 283, JR 87-Billy Glenn, 6-3, 240, SA 'XTE '>< 0 c81-Melvin Pearsall, 6-1,242, FR 0!II<QB 13-Danny Kanell, 6-4, 215, JR c 12-Thad Busby, 6-3, 215, FR c>< FB 32-Zack Crockett, 6-2, 245, SA 38-Aendell Long, 6-2, 220, JR TB 28-Warrick Dunn, 5-9, 178, SO 24-Rock Preston, 5~9. 183, FA FL 30-'0Mar Ellison, 6-1,209, SA 1-Andre Cooper, 6-2, 194, SO  DE DT NG RE OLB MLB OLB FC ss FS BC  FLIDRIDA STATE Sept. 3 VIRGINIA Sept. 10 at Maryland Sept. 17 at Wake Forest 56-14, W Sept. 24 NORTH CAROUNA31-18, W Oct. 8 at Miami · 20-34, L Oct. 22,. CLEMSON '17-0, W Oct. 29 DUKE 59-20, W Nov. 5 at Georgia Tech 41-10, W Nov. 12 NOTRE DAME 12:00 Nov. 19 at N.C. State 1:00 Nov. 26 FLORIDA 12:00 47-James Roberson, 6-4,241, SA 55-Reinard Wilson, 6-2, 233, SO 98-0rpheus Roye, 6-4, 275, JR 95-Julian Pittman, 6-3, 280, FR 85-Andre Wadsworth, 6-4, 256, F 96-Connell Spain, 6-2, 285, SO 90-Derriclc Alexander, 6-5, 265, J 99-Dulack Guerrier, 6-2, 254, SR 10-Derrick Brooks, 6-1, 226, SA 43-Eric Smith, 6-0, 217, SA 44-Daryl Bush, 6-2, 230, FA 46-Travis Sherman, 6-1,222, SO 48-Todd Rebol, 6-0, 215, JR 56-Sam Cowart, 6-3, 239, SO 2-Ciifton Abraham, 5-9, 185, SA 8-Samari l=tolle, 6-1, 160, FR 11-Devin Bush, 6-o, 205, JR 26-Harold Battles, 6-0, 200, SO 18-Sean Hamlet, s-o, 216, SO 35-Robert Hammond, 6-3, 185, FR 4-Corey Fuller, 5-11,200, SA 23-Byron Capers, 6-1, 194, SO  

The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA Friday, November 11, 1994 
SEMINOLES ON THE OFFENSIVE. • • 
Kanell, ground game give FSU balance 


By MIKE NORBUT The Irish have been beaten by the pass on Associate Sports Editor numerous occasions this year, mainly because of the lack of pressure that the defensive line has 
Exit Charlie Ward, Enter Danny Kanell, the lat­been putting on the opposition. est in the line of excellent quarterbacks to grace The defense showed some progress over lowly the campus of Florida State. Navy, recording three sacks in blitzing situations 
Well, maybe he is not the threat that Charlie and holding the Midshipmen to only 158 passing Ward presented to teams last year. In fact, yards. maybe he is not even that great of a quarter­A reason for this spark was the change that back. defensive coordinator Bob Davie made, changing 
But he's doing something right. He runs the the Irish alignment from one with three down second-ranked offense in the nation. linemen to one with four. Because, four pass 
"There's very little difference between the rushers are always more effective than three. Florida State of last year and the one of this But five or six are always better than four, year," Notre Dame coaeh Lou Holtz said. "Their making a case for more blitzing. quarterback is very accurate and a good passer." But the bad news is that Florida State's offen­
The Seminoles are second to only Penn State in sive line will not escort the Irish defenders into total yardage per game, including a third place their backfield the way Navy's did. ra9king in passing yardage, with a 329.9 yard "Unless you can intercept the snap out of the average. shotgun, you're not going to get pressure on 
"He (Kanell) can really do some good things them," Holtz said. "They do a good job of pro­and our offense seems to have some leaders in it tecting the quarterback." now," Florida State coach Bobby Bowden said. Also going against the Irish is that Bert Berry, "The seniors have stepped up and determined the best pass rusher the defense can boast, will that we are going to play offense like Florida be seeing limited time due to an ankle injury he State can." received in practice this week. 
The Observer/ Sco« Mendenhall 
With Berry out, outside linebacker Jeremy Nau will likely be moved to rush end, and LeShane 

PLAYER TO WATCH •• •KEZ McCORVEY
Saddler will probably be inserted in the outside linebacker spot. 

Don't tell Kez 
Except for that it This move may actually help to slow the McCorvey that Notre made McCorvey a 
Seminole running game, which has vastly im­

Dame isn't ranked. pretty popular guy. proved over the past season. 
That doesn't matter to This year, with theLast year, much of Florida State's ground 
him. losses of fellowattack relied on Ward's scrambling ability. This 
"They've lost some receivers Matt Frier,year, Kanell just has to turn and hand off the ball 
games, but they are Tamarick Vanover,to running backs Warrick Dunn or Rock Preston. 
still huge," the and Kevin Knox,
Dunn, a sophomore, is well on his way to a 1000-yard season, a feat not very common 

Seminole said of the McCorvey McCorvey has become among Seminole running backs. He is the main 
Irish. "I guess because the main weapon in reason why Florida State has scored 21 rushing 
they have their own TV sta­Bobby Bowden's second­touchdowns versus 18 passing. 
tion." ranked offense in the nation. "They run the ball much better this year," 
No matter how poor Notre And it hasn't stopped him a Holtz commented. "Dunn has shown that he is an 
Dame may be playing, every bit. Nor has any defense that excellent back." 
team savors a victory over he has gone up against. 
The improvements that the Seminoles have them, and every player knows Just ask Duke, who watchedmade in their running game puts pressure on the that a good game against the him glide into open areas toIrish linebacking corps to look for the run before Irish could mean a ticket to make ten catches for 207they can settle back into pass coverage stardom. yards, the first Seminole re­And with the Irish secondary having to chase Kez McCorvey received his ceiver to compile over 200Seminole receivers Kez McCorvey and 'OMar ticket in last year's Game of yards receiving in almost 30

Ellison around all day, Goheen and Sample will have to make the majority of the tackles to keep 

the Century. Now he'd like to years. the Irish in the game and Florida State out of the 
capture a win with his team­And Duke was ranked in the end zone. 
mates. top-25. Unlike the Irish. But one problem that Davie and his defense 
And maybe even get on "Notre Dame is not ranked, should be able to avoid is not being able to rec­
another television station but it is like playing a team ognize a Seminole formation and thinking run 
other than Notre Dame's. ranked number two or three 
when a pass play is coming. 

The senior caught 11 passes because they're Notre Dame,""They probably do less than anyone we'll see for 138 yards last year, and McCorvey said. 'Til approachthis year," Holtz said. 
scored Florida State's final them just like any other oppo­Formations rarely vary far from a shotgun, touchdown, hauling in a 20-nent."
four receiver set, telegraphing a pass, or one yard Charlie Ward pass off a Hopefully, for Notre Dame'swith two running back, which would generally Brian Magee tip to cut Notre sake, not like he approached

mean a running play. But they are all designed to help improve the 

Dame's lead to seven points in the Blue Devi~ status of the second-ranked offense in the nation. 
the fourth quarter. --MIKE NORBUT And all are lethal. 
But it was all for naught. 






37 
The Seminoles won 
the National 

Championship last year, but they still 
want revenge on the 
Irish for spoiling their 
undefeated season. 
Quarterback 4 Danny Kanell cannot throw or run like Charlie Ward, but Florida State's offense is ranked second in the nation. 
Running Back 4 Warrick Dunn is on his way to a 1 000-yard year, while Zack Crockett and Rock Preston have pretty intimidat­mg names. 
Wide Receiver 5 Kez McCorvey is one of the best in the country, while 'OMar Ellison has quietly become a big-play receiver. 
Offensive Line 4 Though Forrest Connolly has been missing from this lineup all season, they can keep anyone out of the back­field on a pass or on their backs on a run. 
Defensive Line 5 Any line with Derrick Alexander is great, and the rest of the line is perfectly able to create a strong pass rush. 

• RATING THE SEMINOLES 
Linebackers 4 Derrick Brooks is amazing any time he wants to be. But his over-aggressiveness may be his downfall. 
Secondary 3 The only loss the Seminoles have this year is to Miami. In that game, Hurricane quarterback Frank Costa had the game of his life throwing the football. Clifton Abraham is good, but this unit can be beaten. 
Special Teams 3 Scott Bentley is so bad that he was benched against Georgia Tech last week, and probably won't start this week. 
, 

Coaching 5 
Bobby Bowden is one of the &est that college football has to offer. Last year, his flashy approach was beaten by Holtz's straight-ahead running attack, but you know he has something up his sleeve this year. 
-MIKE NORBUT 

Friday, November 11, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page2 


IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE••• 

Pressure for a win on Irish unknowns 
By TIM SHERMAN main aid will be the overall team speed. Assistant Sports Editor Traditionally one of the faster squads in the land, this year's model is no different. 
"I don't mind starting a season with 

"One thing. you have to look at is their tremen­unknowns," Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz 
dous speed," Holtz said. once said. "I just don't like fmishing a season Derrick Brooks, the All-American linebacker,
with a bunch of them." 

exemplifies such speed. There aren't many bet­
Granted, the season isn't fmished yet, but the 

ter at stopping the run. Derrick Alexander, too,
end is now within sight. Hate to break it to you, 

boasts great quickness, especially for a defensive 
coach, but there are still a whole bunch of ques­

lineman. Last season, Aaron Taylor was able to 
tion marks, especially on the offensive side of the 

deal with his quick first step. The task now falls ball to the green Chris Clevenger. Though talented, 
Saturday's showdown with Florida State may 

his inexperience could cause some problems. 
answer some, or even most, of these questions. 

Particularly to the protection of Powlus. 
But will the answers be favorable? 

"If we provide him with adequate protection , I 
Last season's clash in Notre Dame Stadium fea­

feel confident." said Holtz. 
tured an Irish offense that offered little doubt as 

Last year, the Irish actually capitalized on 
to what they were going to do with the ball. Run, 

FSU's speed and frequent overpursuit by spring­
run, run, and run some more. What made this 

ing Adrian Jarrell on a 32-yard reverse for a 
successful was the fact that the Irish also had the 

score. Although Bowden is probably a bit wiser ability to block. 
to that now, plays such as the "Rocket" middle 
"Of course, he (Holtz) may just show them the 

screen (to Mosley?) may be 'just what the Irish 
tape of last year's game and say do that again," 

need to eliminate the question marks and 
joked Seminole coach Bobby Bowden about the 

replace them with exclamation points. 
Irish game plan this year. 
Holtz would if he could but he can't so he won't, right? If you based your answer on the performance of the offensive line for the betterNo one likes to be 
ground by a dominat­
part of this year, then, no, the Irish won't be able 
embarassed, especially ing rushing attack. He 
to just shove the ball down the throat of the FSU
when you are one of basically pulled a clas­
defense like they did last year. 
the nation's biggest sic choke. 
But in this case, another Holtz classic could
impact players. This season, the only 
apply. "Things are never as good as they seem,
But that is exactly choking that Brooks 
nor are they as bad as they seem. Reality lies
what happened last has been involved with 
somewhere in the middle." 
season at Notre Dame is the strangulation of 
That very well may be the case for the Irish
Brooks
Stadium to Derrick opposing offenses. 
rushing attack. 
Brooks. Although he missed 
One thing to consider is that the Irish have had
This season he is a Lombardi the first two games as a result 
essentially four weeks to prepare solely for
and Butkus Award finalist and of 'le episode Foot Locker, the 
Florida State. Such time on the practice field is 
was just as prolific last season. 6-foot-1, 226-pound senior is 
invaluable for an offensive line to come together
Except against the Irish. Not among FSU's leaders in tackles. 
as a unit and gain the cohesiveness that is so
only did a Brooks-led defense His impact number are even 
important to the blocking schemes that Notre
surrender 31 points to an of­better. His column of the stat Dame runs.
fense led by a "no-name", but sheet reads likes two intercep­
"I think the number one thing is that we've
he himself had a nightmare of tions, two tackles for losses, 
become a little bit more of a unit," Holtz 
a game. one sack, one caused fumble, observed.
After getting off to a flying one blcked kick, and four pass­
This worries Bowden. 
start (two tackles after two es broken up. 
"I expect Notre Dame to be just like they were
plays), Brooks met a Notre He is defintiely hoping for 
a year ago, well coached, disciplined, and fun­
Dame running back head on. more of the same tomorrow. 
damentally sound," said the man known in
That was good. Meeting Ray "He owes Notre Dame a lot," 
Tallahassee as Saint Bobby. "They're going to
Zellars simultaneously was not, teammate Derrick Alexander 
have some great players back in their lineup
as Brooks rolled his ankle. He said of Brooks. "He got a lot of 
with a lot of time to heal and prepare for us.
would play later but w~s never bad publicity last season. I 
We've got to anticipate any changes they may
the same. think he is just warming up for have made." 
In addition, he began to Notre Dame." 
One change the Irish would like to see is the
search for excuses. His focus Hope he knows which shoes 
reappearance of the early-season Ron Powlus.
shifted to his cleats. He franti­he is going to wear. But after 
His play, once a constant, is now a question.
cally tried to find the right spending so much time in Foot 
Florida State boasts much the same personnel
shoes on the sideline while at Locker, he should have no 
as last season, plus they have the experience of
the same time his teammates problem with .that. 
facing the Irish and knowing what type of plays 
were getting pounded into the --TIM SHERMAN 
worked last season. If they are to stop those plays this season, their 





• RATING THE IRISH 
Quarterback 4 . . Ron Powlus produced against the one team (M1ch~g~n) ~hat approximated the talent level of F?U..Maybe ~t 1s .ume again for him to show us why Holtz 1s so m love wnh h1m. 
Running Back 4 . Randy Kinder and Emmett Mosley have filled in admirably but it would be very nice to have Ray Zellars and Lee Becton back for another go at the Seminoles. 
Wide Receiver 4 Mike Miller's departure has created a dirth of depth here so Derrick Mayes must shine even more. 
Offensive Line 3 Look for this unit to be ready after four weeks (the Navy scrimmage doesn't count) to recover and pr.actice together. The question is can they assert themselves hke last year. 

Defensive Line 3 The young'uns (Melvin Dansby, Renaldo Wynn, etc.) must use their speed to get into the Seminole backfield. 
Linebackers 3 Bobby Bowden likes to throw to his backs so Irish backers best be ready. Goheen's gang must stuff FSU's run . 
Secondary 3 The once-infallible Bobby Taylor must return to perfec­tion to lead the young Irish defensive backfield. 
Special Teams 3 The special teams usea to be a strength. At best, they are a draw now. Emmett, it is about time to bring one back. 
Coaching 5 Underdogs in a big g~me on the road after fo~r weeks off in which to prepare h1s dub. Holtz has to love lt. 
-TIMSHERMAN 
32 
With four weeks to prepare, this is basi­
cally a bowl game for the Irish. Ifthey don 't get down early, 
they couldgive 
Florida State fits. 







