~-------~-----------­

Thursday, March 17, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 106 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Forum discusses campus homosexuality issues St. Patty's 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
celebration

Associate News Editor 
It is hard to believe 80 people would show up to talk about includes ND 
something that many claim does not exist at Notre Dame. 
By KATE CRISHAM
But that is exactly what hap­
Assistant News Editor 

pened at last night's "Straight Talk About Being Queer" forum The Irish of Notre Dame will in LaFortune. 
be well represented today atUndergraduates, graduate 
the nation's most prominent St. 

students, and faculty members Patrick's Day party -a White
packed into a muggy Mont­
House "celebration of Ireland" gomery Theater to chew on gay honoring the republic's head ofand lesbian issues, homophobia 

government, Prime Minister 

on campus, and general student Albert Reynolds. 
population concerns with ho­University President Fathermosexuality. 
Edward Malloy, Notre Dame'sThe forum was an opportuni­
sixteenth president and the 

ty for both gay and straight stu­fourteenth of Irish descent, will dents to gather in a relaxed at­be among President and Mrs.
mosphere to have a question 
Clinton's guests for the gala.

and answer session on an issue 
Board of Trustees President

the Catholic Church considers Andrew McKenna and head
taboo and one at which the 
football coach Lou Holtz, whose Administration seems to peren­friendship with Clinton dates tonially balk. 

his tenure at the University of"It's really pretty funny to see Arkansas, will also be present. 

how they run from things," said 
"This is a state dinnerCourtenay Redis, co-chair of 

honoring the Prime Minister ofGays and Lesbians of Notre where things can be thrown out pus," Redis said. "Women here do to help dismantle homopho­Ireland, and like all state din­Dame and Saint Mary's on the table," Redis said. "I are really good at relating to bia on campus. 

ners, they invite a wide range(GLND/SMC). don't care whether you agree each other here." Redis said she was thankful of guests," said Malloy. "I pre­Redis and Martin Connell, a with me or not. I am who I am, · She said separate dorms for she came to Notre Dame be­sume the reason why I and theNotre Dame theology doctoral and I'm happy with it." men and women and the "back­cause she has grown here spiri­others were invited is not onlycandidate, shared their per­Last night was not, however, wards" social scene at Notre tually. 

because of our Irish descent,sonal experiences with homo­an opportunity to take pot shots Dame are two major contribu­Connell said he sometimes but because of the number ofsexuality before fielding an at the University for their pas­tors to this bonding. She also felt like he was "walking a tight Irish Americans who have con­hour of questions from the sive attempts at homosexual joked that being homosexual, rope" teaching his 100-level tributed to the life of the Uni­audience. education on campus. Both she did not have to worry about theology course. At the same versity."

"It's a little sad to see so Redis and Connell said being parietals. time, though, he said his teach­"It's an honor to be invited," many touched by it, yet there's homosexual at Notre Dame has Questions from the audience ing experience has told him Malloy added. 
no forum to talk about it open­some perks. ranged from maintaining a that many people at Notre Reynolds will attend Notre
ly," Connell said. "Women are really able to Catholic faith as a homosexual Dame are concerned with gay "I like the idea of a dialogue have a good bond on this cam-to what straight people could and lesbian issues. see MALLOY I page 4 


Reynolds named among list of degree recipients 
Special to The Observer 
Eleven national and interna­tional dignitaries, including principal speaker Albert Reynolds, head of government of Ireland, will receive hon­orary degrees during Notre 
Dame's 149th com­mencement ex e rei s e s May 15. 
S o m e 
1 ' 8 0 0 undergradu­ate and 550 

a d v a n c e d Marian Wright degrees will Edelman 
be conferred in ceremonies beginning at 2 
p.m. in the arena of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Reynolds, elected Ireland's head of government, or Taoiseach (pronounced tea­shock) in February 1992, will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. 
Also to receive honorary de­grees are: 
• Erma Hornbeck, syndicated newspaper columnist, doctor of laws. One of America's best­loved humorists, Hornbeck is the author of 11 books and a thrice-weekly column that is syndicated in some 750 news­papers nationwide. A University of Dayton alumna, she left the newspaper busi­ness in 1953 to devote full time to her children, then in 1965 started writing a column on domesticity that soon was syn­dicated in newspapers across the country. Her column today is read by an estimated 31 mil­lion people, and she repeatedly has been selected to The World Almanac's annual list of 25 most influential women in America. 
• 
Shiing-Shen Chern, profes­sor emeritus of mathematics, University of California at Berkeley, doctor of science. Widely recognized as the world's greatest living geome­ter, Chern has developed nu­merous key concepts that form the foundation of global differ­ential geometry. Born in Kashing, China, in 1911, Chern studied at Nankai University and the University of Hamburg in Germany. He returned to China to teach, then fled to the United States in 1948 as the Communists took control of his homeland. He held a chaired professorship in mathematics at the University of Chicago from 1948-61, then joined the faculty at Berkeley. In addition to his teaching responsibilities, he founded the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute at Berkeley. 

• 
Johnnetta Cole, president, Spelman College, doctor of 


see DEGREES I page 4. 


Prejean: Stand against death penalty 
By MARSHALL ENOS 
News Writer 
What is accomplished in death? For Elmo Patrick Son­nier, the answer would be pro­vided with his life. 
After having be!m convicted of the murders of two Louisiana high school students, Sonnier entered prison in 1977. With his assignment on Louisiana's death row, Sonnier became a walking dead man. Sonnier paid for his crime with his life through electrocution on April 4, 1984. What was accom­plished with his death? 
This and other questions con­cerning the death penalty were asked by Sister Helen Prejean, the author of "Dead Man Walk­ing: An Eyewitness Account of the Death Penalty in the United States" in the two day forum on capital punishment sponsored by Keenan, Pasquerilla East, Lyons and Cavanaugh halls. 
Prejean, an opponent of the death penalty, presented the personal story of Elmo Patrick Sonnier whom she befriended while he was on death row. With his friendship Prejean be­gan a crusade to abolish the 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
death penalty in the United 
Sr. Jean Prejean, author of "Dead Man Walking," lashed out against
States. 
the death penalty in a multi-dorm sponsored lecture yesterday evening. 

While embracing the guilt of Sonnier and others like him, New Orleans she realized the row. Prejean attacked the basis of complexity of social injustice She said the issue of race the death penalty. She pointed and poverty. Prejean worked two ways. If the person out that of the 2800 people now explained, "With contact with convicted of murder was black on death row almost all are poor people, I became intimate the death penalty was usually poor. with death." pursued. But if the victim was 
Prejean said that through Prejean emphasized that race black the death penalty was not working with the poor of the St. was also a factor in determin­Thomas Housing projects in ing who was to be put on death see CAPITAL I page 4 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, March 17, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 


The real secret of St. Patrick's Day: Irish love 
There are two kinds of people in the world: those who are Irish and those who wish they were. 
What is it about the Irish that makes them so appealing? Very simply -it's Irish love. And Brian McDonough 
what better way to 
Photographer
explain it, than with an Irish love story. 

"Kiss her now!" said the Irish leprechaun's voice in my head. Alas, that would be too bold for this sixteen year-old Irish lad, yet I had to do something. For as I looked into Liz's bright blue eyes, I saw that sparkle, which told me now was the time to act, lest that sparkle disappear. 
Irish carpe diem, if you please. 
So I took her hand in mine, and gently removed her gold claddagh ring. And without a word spoken, I placed it back on her finger, with the heart facing towards her. And as I lifted my eyes, I saw her Irish eyes smiling ... 
It was about time, for Irish love. 
As the years passed I learned that essential­ly, Irish love is a unifying spirit joining family, history, culture, religion, as well as true love itself. Irish love touches the hearts of all who are fortunate enough to experience it. 
Irish love has flowed through my family for five generations in the U.S. For my great­great-grandfather George McDonough, the Irish Potato Famine of the 1850s did not mean an end to life as he knew it, a love of his sacred Ireland, but rather a fresh start in America, a new life to love. 
Now before he immigrated, he kissed the Blarney Stone, enabling future generations with the gift of Irish gab. 
And that gift of speaking, which prompted Oscar Wilde to describe the Irish as "The greatest talkers since the Greeks," will cer­tainly be heard in pubs and taverns today. Along with heaps of Irish culture embracing its faithful, a feast of corned beef sandwiches, Irish lager, Irish jigs, and perhaps a wee bit of Irish music, U2, Clannad, or the Irish Drovers, filling the air. 
Amidst the drinking of Shamrock Shakes, the man of the day should not be forgotten, namely St. Patrick. He brought Christianity to the Emerald Isle, and Irish Catholics will never forget him. His two claims to fame, driving out all of the snakes from Ireland and explain­ing the concept of the Blessed Trinity to the Irish using a 'shamrock, have left an indelible mark on the Irish people. 


And without people there would be no Irish love. Yet, Irish love has different meanings for those who embrace it. 
For Katie McGlynn, it is the claddagh ring, which symbolizes all the beauty of Irish love. 
For Heather Marshall, it is the cherished Irish Blessing, a timeless and endearing remembrance of Irish love. 
And for me, now a twenty year-old young Irishman, it is that sparkle, which I saw for the second time, in my first love's smiling eyes. 
Irish love made my heart skip a beat, again. 
It's about time. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAV'S STAFF 
News Production Corinne Doran Lynn Bauwens Edward Imbus Allison Ebel 
Cheryl Moser Erin Punell 
Sports Mike Norbut 

Graphics Christopher Mullins
Lab Tech David Hungeling 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Cardinal and other prison hostages freed by jailbreakers in Brazil 
FORTALEZA, Brazil 

Prisoners who held sharpened spoons to the throats of a Roman Catholic cardinal and human rights activists fled into the scrub woods of northeastern Brazil after freeing the hostages unharmed today. 
In escaping from a maximum-security jail, 13 inmates broke a deal they made with authorities Tuesday in exchange for police providing weapons and a getaway armored car and even turning off the prison lights. 
Police made good on their side of the bargain but the prisoners did not free their hostages as promised, dump­ing only an injured guard out of the getaway car as they sped from the Paulo Sarasate prison 15 miles from Fortaleza, a city 1,750 miles north of Rio de Janeiro. 
The inmates packed into the armored van with Cardinal Aloisio Lorscheider and 12 other hostages when they raced away Tuesday night. 
Throughout the night and by dawn today, the hostages were released unharmed along the road in small groups as police trailed the getaway vehicle. 
Nearly 20 hours after the inmates grabbed their hostages during a prison visit, the escapees abandoned the armored car after crashing into another car this morning and ran into the woods near Quixada, about 100 miles from Fortaleza, capital of Ceara state. 
The cardinal, who '""""""""''""""'Js"""·~.,...,..,.'=>.,...··•··•·"""·~~.i.,.,.L~;;,0-u""'"v.""*,.NA-.·~j""i__,.·•••··•·"""·········•.,...·•·••·•·.......,• 
was kept in the '~-VEN. fWot >SURINAME ... front seat of the OL. '--~ f"'' FR£;NCH .. armored car as a ~li!ANAP shield against police sharpshooters, was not injured in the crash, Tavares said. 
The uprising began Tuesday morning when 
l'!iJmlml!fa!lmJ·~~ 
Lorscheider and the I' activists were checking reports of overcrowding and t.:;,;;======::2.........:..::::;.;;;;;c-=;;,;:::.J
abuse at the prison. AP/Aiex Sibirny News reports said the inmates pulled the handmade weapons from their clothing and overpowered the cardi­nal and others. Miserable conditions, official corruption and over­crowding are the norm in most of Brazil's prisons. Lorscheider, named cardinal in 1976, is a leading voice of the liberal wing of Brazil's church. Brazil, the world's most .populous Roman Catholic country, has 130 million followers among its 150 million residents. 
Gene causing hereditary cancer uncovered 
NEW YORK 

Scientists have found a second gene -and possibly a third and fourth -that causes a form of inherited colon cancer, an advance that should help detect the disease in early, more treatable stages. The new report comes just three months after scientists announced finding the first known gene for the disease, which produces an estimated 9,000 to 15,000 cases a year of colon or rectum cancer. The first gene may account for about half the cases of the inherited disease and the newly identified one may cause another 30 percent to 40 percent, said researcher Dr. Bert Vogelstein of Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. Scientists plan to use the disease~linked genes to develop tests for screening families with the condition, called hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer. Family mem­bers who do not carry a gene for the condition can be re­assured, while those who do can get frequent checkups to detect cancers in their early stages. Gene carrier:; are at increased risk for a variety of cancers, including uterine cancer. 
PLO inquiry says soldiers fired at mosque 
HEBRON 
Arab judges and lawyers investigat­ing the Hebron massacre for the PLO said Wednesday they believe soldiers 
~, .•, fired at people and caused at least one • \. , • • death at the mosque despite denials by ~ ~; •: :: ~ Israeli officers. Arab youths fought :~·~···~., with soldiers Wednesday when a cur­few was lifted briefly to allow people to )j buy food. Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin .. '.' was reported ready to allow the PLO to deploy several dozen Palestinian police in Hebron even though the West Bank city is not in the self-rule areas designated by the PLO-Israel peace accord. The move would be a conces­sion to the PLO in an effort to revive the peace talks, which have been at a standstill since the massacre. The Palestine Liberation Organization has said it needsguar­antees for the safety of Palestinians before it can return to the talks. The group's complete report is due within three weeks. Maj. Gen. Danny Yatom, commander of Israeli troops in the West Bank, denied reports that sol­diers shot at people trying to flee the mosque. He said sol­diers fired only in the air inside the mosque, lodging a few bullets in the ceiling. 

NATIONAL Weather 
GM, union reach agreement to end strike 
DAYTON, Ohio 
A United Auto Workers union reached a tentative agreement with General Motors Corp. Wednesday to end a three-day strike at two brake plants. The strike has forced three other plants to close in Indiana, Michigan and Wisconsin. Others were likely to shut down within days as they ran out of parts made at the Ohio brake plants. GM spokesman Charles Kronbach said the agree­ment was reached after an eight-hour bargaining session Wednesday. He would not give details. "Although pro­duction was disrupted, impact on our customers should be minimal," plant managers Sam Shalaby and Dan Warrell,said in a statement. The union wanted a eompa­ny promise to build a new generation of brake parts in Dayton. But GM wanted to hire an Australian company to make an aluminum part that would replace a cast iron part made in Dayton, union officials said. 
Assad called to reopen Mideast peace talks 
WASHINGTON 
With Mideast peace talks near collapse, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin on Wednesday rejected Pales­tinian demands for new security measures on the West Bank. He also signaled to Syria a willingness to make "painful decisions" over the future of the Golan Heights. With President Clinton at his side, Rabin said Israel would not alter the agreement it signed last September to grad­ually permit Palestinians "to conduct their own affairs" while maintaining Israeli military control over the West Bank. Virtually every week Israel buries victims of terrorist attacks, Rabin said, ruling out Palestinian secu­rity demands prompted by a Jewish extremist's deadly attack on a mosque. "We don't think it appropriate to wage new demands after every terrorist attack," Rabin said. "Security is a two-way street." But taking an entirely different tack on Syria, Rabin said "we will stand ready to do what is required of us if the Syrians are ready to do what is required of them." He then told Israeli reporters that what he meant was a "territorial compro­mise" on the Golan Heights. Clinton, at a news confer­ence with Rabin, acknowledged peace had become more elusive, and Rabin looked to Syria to rekindle peace hopes. 



COLD WARM STATIONARY © 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

·---------------------------------------------­
Thursday, March 17, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Celebration of the cross


Ireland receives alumni club 


KENNETH BRANAGH
at Gr~~nfi~ld'~ Gaf~ 
MICHAEL KEATON ROBERT SEAN LEONARD KEANU REEVES

4 to 5:30 p.m. 
EMMA THOMPSON DENZEL WASHINGTON
By KATE CRISHAM Assistant News Editor 
· The University of Notre Dame will commemorate the feast of St. Patrick by chartering its first alumni club in Ireland. 
The chartering of the first authentically Irish alumni club fittingly comes in the same aca­demic year that has seen the birth of Notre Dame's Keough Center for Irish Studies, headed by internationally renowned scholar Seamus Deane. 
This "year of Ireland" will conclude with Albert Reynolds, the prime minister of Ireland, delivering the principal address 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
SMC BOG Beat Writer 
Call Beth Regan @284-4453 or 631-4540 

~ Reception for 
~ Reading from 


The Coach's Wife 
on 11Being a woman student and faculty member at Notre Dame. II 

at the University's Commencement exercises on May 15. 
The new Notre Dame Club of Ireland and its club president Paul McGinn, a 1984 alumnus, will receive an official charter in ceremonies at Dublin's Berkeley Court Hotel on March 18. 
Karen Anthony, director of administration and travel for the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation, will present the charter on behalf of Alumni Association Executive Director Charles Lennon, Jr. 
Anthony will be accompanied by 40 alumni and friends of the 
continues with hope 
Life's too short. 
Leadership Conference Education Fund, Inc. ~ 
Kenneth Branagh has done it again! Triumphantly romantic, comic and emotionaUy alive." 
·· Vlncrnt Canby, TilE NEW YORK TIMES 
'~TONISHING! 
ONE OF TilE FEW MOVIES OF RECENT YEARS TIIAT COULD LEAVE AUDIENCES WEEPING FORJOY!" .. David Denby, NEW YORK Magazin< 
"DAZZLING! 

The screen sblmmers u•ltb glowing youngfaces voluptuous Umbs, breakneck borsemn. Branagb is a crossbreed ofCagney and Olivier. • 
-Jack Kroll, NEWSWEEK Magazin< 
transcending one's own suffer­ing. 
"Compassion is a way of handling the Cross because it helps us not to become fixated on our own difficulties. It re­lates things and forces us to have a different perspective on the human condition in gen­eral," Malloy said. 
Malloy said that it is impor­tant for us in the context of the life of faith, that hope is a virtue and not an escape. Hope is something founded on the events of faith. 
"Our hope is founded on the story, the life, death, and res­urrection of Jesus and our ac­cessibility to that victory through our participation in the life of the church and the sustaining quality that comes with belonging to a community of faith in which we have the capacity to pick each other up at any given moment," Malloy said. 
Malloy added that everyone has a Cross to carry, but by sustaining a level of energy and a depth of faith beyond our normal capacity, we see the relationship between the Cross and the resurrection. 
"The Cross is our only hope. The Cross connected to the resurrection is our only hope. The resurrection without the Cross takes us out of the hu­man condition and fails prop­erly to respect the mystery of the incarnation," Malloy con­cluded. 
Father John Dunne will pre­sent the final lecture in the se­ries, "The Cross and the Un­hoped For," on Wednesday, March 23, in Stapleton Lounge at 12:15 p.m. 
University participating in the Alumni Association's Saint Patrick's Day tour. 
Michael Wadsworth, Cana­dian Ambassador to Ireland and a 1966 Notre Dame alum­nus, is among the Ireland club's 54 charter members. 
Wadsworth was a football monogram winner at defensive tackle in 1964 under coach Ara Parseghian. 
The Notre Dame Club of Ire­land is the University's twenti­eth outside the U.S., raising the total number of alumni clubs to 224. 
The staff of The Observer wishes everyone 
a happy St. Patrick :S Day. 

By AMY CODRON News Writer 
Everyone has a cross to carry, but the challenge is hOw we carry it, according to Uni­versity of Notre Dame Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy. 
Malloy's lecture, "The Cross Our Only Hope," was the third in the Saint Mary's Sesquicen­tennial Lenten Lecture series, "A Celebration of the Cross." 
Malloy explained that every­one experiences a degree of negativity of suffering and pain that we can identify with the Cross. 
"There is no utopian exis­tence in this world. There is no state of euphoria that can be sustained, and there is nothing we can do of an· artifi­cial sort that can take the con­nection of the Cross away from us," Malloy said. 
Malloy sees solidarity as a way of handling the Cross. People can be restored through healthy. positive soli­darity. 
"Solidarity is something that allows us to recognize that our burden is not something we carry alone," Malloy explained. 
"There is an energy created, a kind of presence as a part of the mystical body of Christ, that can unite us and give us the courage for the journey," Malloy added. 
Malloy explained that com­passion, along with solidarity, is a way of moving beyond just being reconciled to our own Cross. With both, people can take the initiative to share the suffering and pain of another and, through this process, 
A KENNETH BRANAGH FILM 


NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 CALL 631-7361 FOR TIMES AND DATES 
FOR ALL CINEMA AT THE SNITE FILMS 
----~---------~----­
page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 17, 1994 


Degrees 
continued from page 1 
laws. A nationally respected anthropologist, author, admin­istrator and teacher, Cole in 1987 became the first African­American woman president of historically black Spelman College in Atlanta. During her tenure, a number of new pro­grams have been initiated at Spelman, and the college annu­ally has been ranked among the leading liberal arts colleges in the United States. 
• James Coleman, professor of sociology, University of Chicago, doctor of laws. One of the nation's leading social theo­rists, Coleman is a researcher with the National Opinion Research Center as well as a member of the Chicago faculty. His most recent work has involved the study of "con­structed" institutions such as corporations and how they have changed the way society oper­ates. His work in the sociology of education includes "Public and Private High Schools: The Impact of Communities," a study that found achievement to be greater in Catholic schools, even when socioeco­nomic factors were considered. Coleman earned his bachelor's degree from Purdue University 



Capital 
continued from page 1 
a priority. 
She questioned what was ac­complished through the death penalty. Prejean said, "It is an illusion for victim's families to believe that executions will re­lieve their pain." 
Prejean explained that after the death of a convicted mur­derer the rage is gone, but the victims still have to deal with their pain and anger. She argued that executions give no solution. "We can protect our­selves without imitating the vio­and his doctorate from Columbia University. He was a faculty member of Johns Hopkins University from 1959­73 and served as president of the American Sociological Association in 1991-92. 
• 
Marian Wright Edelman, president, Children's Defense Fund, doctor of laws. As founder and president of the Children's Defense Fund (CDF), Edelman is a powerful advocate in Congress, at the White House and across the nation for America's children. Established in 1973, the CDF addresses issues such as the health and education of children, youth employment, child care, and family support systems. Edelman served on the front lines of the civil rights move­ment in the 1960s before founding the CDF. 

• 
Cardinal Roger Etchegaray, president, Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace, doctor of laws. As president of the Council for Justice and Peace, Etchegaray has represented Pope John Paul ll in dozens of hot spots around the world, from Cuba to South Africa, Iraq to Vietnam, and the former Soviet Union to the former Yugoslavia. He also has been responsible for the Vatican's landmark documents on racism, international debt, homelessness and other issues. 


lence of killing. It is an imita­tion of the behavior we are try­ing to eliminate," remarked Prejean. 
She also questioned the morality of the death penalty and challenged Christians, es­pecially Catholics, to stand against it. Prejean explained that the torture of the death penalty is anticipating death, waiting for it to happen. She said, "No human life is beyond redemption; life is re­deemable." 
John Yoder, who was in at­tendance and co-authored the book "The Death Penalty De­bate," agreed with Prejean. 
"People who are in favor of 
Student Union Board is proud to present the National Shakespeare Company in: 
Romeo ai1d Juliet 
March 19, 1994 8:00 Washington Hall 
Just $7 for students! 


~pqg­
~ ~ ............. 
::etsavailable at LaF:: 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents A Holy Cross Memorial Concert" 
Babette Hierholzer 
Guest pianist from Berlin, Germany 

performing music by 
W. A. Mozart, Mendelssohn Schubert and Robert Schumann 
Sunday, March 20 2:00p.m. 

Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 
Admission $5 General, $2 Seniors and Students 
His official duties also include presiding over Cor Unum, the organization responsible for the Church's charitable activities. Etchegaray was ordained a priest in 1947. In 1969 he was made auxiliary bishop of Paris, and two years later he became archbishop of Marseilles. He was elevated to cardinal in 1979. 
• 
Shelby Foote, writer and historian, doctor of laws. Au­thor of the massive history "The Civil War: A Narrative," Foote is arguably the world's fore­most authority on the subject. A native of Mississippi, he served in World War II and attended the University of North Carolina before embarking on a writing career. His early work included five well-received novels, all but one set in his home state. In the early 1950s he was asked to write a brief history of the Civil War. Twenty years and three volumes later, he completed the project. 

• 
Nick Holonyak, professor, University of Illinois, doctor of engineering. Holonyak, an Illi­nois alumnus and member of the university's engineering faculty since 1963, is credited with the invention of the first practical light-emitting diode (LED), a semiconductor crystal device that led to digital watch­es and a range of electronic instrument panel readouts. He 


the death penalty have a con­cept of God that isn't Chris­tian," Yoder said. 
Prejean closed by urging Catholics to pursue the aboli­tion of the death penalty as an ethical issue. 
Prejean has appeared on na­tional television programs and has written numerous articles and op-ed pieces on the death penalty. 
She is chairperson of the National Coalition Against the Death Penalty and has helped establish a number of victims' help programs. Her book is scheduled to appear as a major motion picture in the future. 
also developed the device that makes possible the household light-dimmer switch• Newton Minow, attorney, doctor of laws. Counsel to the Chicago law firm of Sidley & Austin, Minow has served as a member of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees on two occasions, 1964-77 and 1983 to the pre­sent. His well known descrip­tion of television as a "vast wasteland" came in 1961 when he served under President Kennedy as chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. Before joining the FCC, he had been administra­tive assistant to Illinois Gov. Ad­lai Stevenson. He left the FCC to become executive vice presi­dent and general counsel of Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc. 
• John Welch, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of General Electric Company, doctor of laws. One of America's most admired business leaders, Welch has nearly doubled General Electric's revenue from $26 bil­lion to $60 billion annually since becoming chairman and CEO in 1981. To meet his goal of creating "a big company body and a small company soul," he has consolidated 150 business units into 12 basic businesses in a transnational organization. Under Welch, GE has spent $20 billion on new 


Malloy 
continued from page 1 
Dame's commencement exer­cises on May 15, when he will • receive an honorary degree, and deliver the day's principal address. 
"We were very pleased when Prime Minister Reynolds ac­cepted our invitation to deliver the address," said Malloy. "He has been extremely active in his attempts to end the social discord in Northern Ireland." 
"His efforts for peace and progress shows a true dedica­tion to social justice," he said. "We are extremely honored he is coming to Notre Dame." 
acquisitions, including the NBC television network and the Kidder Peabody & Co. broker­age firm, and sold any business that does not rank first or sec­ond in its field. He joined GE in 1960. 
Joining the honorary degree recipients at the commence­ment exercises will be Sidney Callahan, professor of psychol­ogy at Mercy College and columnist for Commonweal magazine. Callahan is the 1994 recipient of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious award given to American Catholics. 

Daniella, 
"21" on St. Pat's Day Born to be a Domer! 
We Love you, Mom, Dad, Ted Grandma, Grandpa Norma, Nonno 

TUDENT 



OVERNMENT 
Are you interested in helping to manage and account for $400,000? 
Ifyou are a SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJOR who enjoys working with money and people, STUDENT GOVERNMENT needs you as the Student Body Assistant Treasurer. 
•Student Body Assistant Treasurer aids the Student Body Treasurer in disbursing funds for: Student Government Student Union Board Halls 
Clubs and Organizations This is in preparation for your becoming THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER 
the following year. 

•Applications 
are available in the Treasurer's office 2nd floor LaFortune between 1 -5 p.m. 

•
Due on Thursday, March 24 by 4 p.m. 

•
Any questions, contact Sally Oelerich at 631-7 417 




. -~-·~--------­
.-------------~--------------------~----------------·-----------------------~---------------------~----~~-­
Thursday, March 17, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Academic support group begun for SMC students 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The Counseling and Career Development Center has formed a student academic support group in order to assist Saint Mary's students in achiev­ing their goals of academic suc­cess. 
According to Carol Bently­Lesnak, Counselor in the Coun­seling and Career Development Center, students need to be en­couraged and to feel that there are people backing them up in their academic endeavors. This is the main goal of these acade­mic support groups. 
In the groups' weekly meet­ings, students learn about the various resources available at Saint Mary's to assist students, such as the Writing Center and, most importantly, getting help from professors. 
"All of our students are very good students, but they still struggle," Bently-Lesnak said. "The image that all Saint Mary's students are 'A' stu­dents is not true. The group is here to help." 
So far, the academic support group has been a success. 
"Students have had positive results, and the techniques and support they receive are help­ful," Bently-Lesnak said. 
The group meets every Tues­day from 4-5 p.m. in the Coun­seling and Career Development Center. Each meeting is open to all students. 
By SEAN O'CONNOR only the fourth person in histo­News Writer ry to have been elected to the position of president of both 
Jay Dolan, professor of his­organizations. tory, has been elected to serve A specialist in the history of as vice-president of the Ameri­the Catholic Church in the can Catholic 
United States and founding di­Historical rector of the University's Association, Cushwa Center for the Study of an organiza­American Catholicism, Dolan tion consist­became a member of the Notre ing of 1300-Dame faculty in 1971. 1400 histo-The award signals the pres­rians spe­tige Dolan has gathered in the cializing in study of Catholic history, ac­the history of Jay Dolan cording to Father Bill Miscam­the Roman ble, chairman of the history Catholic Church from its found­department. ing to the present. It is a "recognition of Profes­
Dolan, who served in 1987 as sor Dolan's scholarly accom­president of the American So­plishments and something that ciety of Church History, another brings honor to him, the history reputable scholarly association department, and the University studying church history, holds as a whole," Miscamble said. the unique distinction of being Dolan is "among the foremost 

Parade cancelled after Justice refuses to hear gay case 
By DANIEL BEEGAN 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Sponsors canceled this year's St. Patrick's Day parade be­cause a U.S. Supreme Court justice cleared the way Wednesday for a gay group to participate. been utterly destroyed," said 
Without comment, Justice Chester Darling, the group's at­David Souter denied an emer­torney. gency request for intervention Darling said he would appeal from the South Boston Allied Souter's decision to the full U.S. War Veterans Council, the Supreme Court, but the appeal parade's sponsor. will be too late to save Sunday's 
"This year's parade, with my parade. client's traditional values, has The city will sponsor the parade next year and gay groups will be allowed to participate. 

"It is gratifying to know big­otry is against the law in this country," said David O'Connor, spokesman for the Gay, Lesbian Irish Bisexual Group. "The sooner the veterans realize that, the sooner we can have a parade we can all enjoy." 
O'Connor said Boston's con­troversy doesn't exist in Ire­land, where homosexuals are marching with little complaint or fanfare in parades in Dublin and Cork. Ireland legalized ho­mosexual acts this year, he said. 
Darling argued that the veter­ans group had a First Amend­ment right to decide who was to march in the 90-year-old pa­rade, but the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruled that parades are public events covered by a state law barring discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. 
The veterans argued to Souter that the state court "trivialized and ridiculed the veterans' claim of a constitu­tional right of free speech." Souter handles emergency mat­ters from Massachusetts for the high court. 
In 1992 and 1993, gays and lesbians marched in the Boston parade under court order. 

A WEEKEND OF COMMUNITY 
An Experience for Seniors Who have been involved in Service or Social Action 
Friday Evening, March 25 
to 


Sunday Noonl March 27 
(With optional outing to Gin Blossom Concert) 
Registration forms available from: Campus Ministry, Hesburgh Library And Center for Social Concerns 

Application and $1 0 fee due by March 18 
For further information contact: 
Robert Benedetto  273-5839  
Tina Patane  282-2879  
Ed Miehle  634-3332  

Tom McDermott C.S.C. 631-7800 Kathy Royer 631-7862 
Dolan elected to ACHA post 
historians of American Catholic history," said Miscamble. 
Honored by his election, Dolan said that it "recognizes the individual as a prominent person" and reflects the fact that his "peers have a good opinion [of hi~." 
Dolan has authored several books, including "The Immi­grant Church: New York's Irish and German Catholics, 1815­1865;" "Catholic Revivalism: The American Catholic Experi­ence, 1830-1900;" and "The American Catholic Experience; A History from Colonial Times to the Present." 
Dolan's duties as president will include presiding at the annual meeting of the associa­tion and delivering a paper and address. 
He will assume the role of president in January 1995. 
Dunne: Prayer gives stillness 
By MEGAN THOMAS News Writer 
Father John Dunne, profes­sor of theology, likened prayer to the position of an individual existing within the center of stillness yesterday evening at the Stanford/Keenan chapel. 
Dunne began his lecture on Christian Prayer by quoting Dag Hammerjold, former Sec­retary­General of the United Nations, "We all have within us a center of stillness 
_ surrounded -~ by silence." John Dunne 
T h e silence surrounding the indi­vidual is representative of the presence of God. The most important aspect of prayer is not the time spent in conversation with God, but rather the aura of peace which an individual carries about him. 
How does one gain access to the center of stillness? Dunne said that this inward movement begins when an individual shares his hopes and fears with God. By bringing one's concerns to God's attention, the individual is able to unburden himself of these worries which have been kept locked inside. 
The problem with sharing one's intimate thoughts with God is that He cannot physi­cally reciprocate. Dunne stressed the idea that the sur­rounding silence is the voice of God. He may not be able to answer specific questions. but the mere presence of God provides one with a feeling of security. Dunne repeated a quote of Mahatma Gandhi: "God speaks everyday, but we don't listen." 
When Christ taught his dis­ciples how to pray, the most crucial aspect was not the act · of praying. He sought to teach them the value of establishing an unconditional relationship with God. The problem which faced the apostles, Dunne argued, was that it is difficult to secure an intimate relationship with God because there is no d.efinitive bridge between a human being and God. 
--~------~---~­
-------------~------~---------------------­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, March 17, 1994 

Congress experiments with lively, real health debate 
By NITA LELYVELD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., said Wednesday evening's exercise was not about charts, statistics, graphs or even philosophy: "It really is simply about people." Minority Whip Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., said it was "good for the House." 
In an after-hours foray onto the House floor, four Republi­cans and four Democrats staged what Speaker Thomas Foley, D-Wash., called an "unprece-dented experiment." They debated. 
It wasn't the kind of debate the lawmakers normally have -simply reciting prepared speeches or haggling over amendments. Instead, they par­ticipated in a formal Oxford­style debate -complete with a resolution, open statements, plenty of questions and plenty of rebuttals. 
This time, they haggled over substance. And, even with for­mality, the fight quickly got heated. Before long, there was shouting. 
The topic of Wednesday's 100-minute debate was THE topic in Congress these days: health care reform. And those debating included some of the 
Congress continues debate over Whitewater hearings 
By LARRY MARGASAK probe as "all political foot­
Associated Press ball." 

The latest crack in 
WASHINGTON Democratic solidarity against 
Rep. Dan Rostenkowski on hearings had no effect on Wednesday became the sec­Foley. He told reporters that ond prominent House commit­Congress should "accede to tee chairman to declare the request of the special Whitewater hearings may be counsel to postpone any hear­necessary, but Speaker ings until he has completed his Thomas S. Foley refused to investigation." budge from his opposition. Foley even warned lawmak­
"I think the congressional ers to be careful about holding hearings are going to be in­hearings on White House evitable," the House Ways and interference in the case ­Means chairman said, even even though special counsel though "the American people Robert B. Fiske Jr. said he are tired of all this." wouldn't object to such an 
Rostenkowski, who played inquiry when he finishes that host to President Clinton dur­phase in several weeks. ing the lawmaker's successful Foley said that Fiske ex­primary campaign, praised pressed concern that hearings Clinton as a president who "directed toward the White 
"wants to govern." House meetings" with regula­
The chairman said he was tors could become "a method "not enthusiastic" about hear­of backing into the fundamen­ings, but feared that Amer­tal questions involved in icans view the continuing ar­Whitewater issues in guments over a congressional Arkansas." 
subject's key players, such as Then he went on to quote nu­paired against each other in the Rep. Pete Stark, D-Calif., whose merous Democrats who had evening. House Ways and Means sub­spoken against the Clinton plan. The back-and-forth was a lit­committee is currently working When he finished, a Demo­tle faster than a usual floor de­on a bill, and Rep. Bill Thomas cratic onlooker, Rep. Kika de Ia bate, but the most different of California, the' ranking Re­Garza of Texas said, "Shame, thing about it could be seen by publican on Stark's panel. shame, shame." viewers of C-SPAN, which car­
Debaters were asked to argue When Rep. Henry Waxman, ried it live: camera operators for and against the resolution: D-Calif., said, "There is no ra­were experimenting with fancy "Resolved: that the Clinton tioning (of health care) in the split screens, which they are health care plan best repre­Clinton proposal," Republican not allowed to do during regu­sents the elements that should lawmakers acting as a cheering lar floor debate. be included in health care re­section behind their team start­Before the debate began, form." ed booing. It wasn't very loud. Gephardt, who has been lobby­
Gephardt and Gingrich were There weren't many spectators. ing for an academic-style de­up first with opening statement. But Stark and Rep. Nancy bate for several years, said: And it seemed friendly at first. Johnson, R-Conn., who had a "I've thought for a long time Gingrich praised Gephardt's nasty exchange at a hearing that the debate was really opening statement and said it earlier Wednesday, went back statements and speechifying, was "wonderful about goals." at it again when they were and that we need real debate." 

Conflict's resolution to be discussed 
By ALISON SMALE important element of the situa­Associated Press tion overall in Yugoslavia," Churkin told reporters. BELGRADE In related developments 
Croatian Serbs and Croatian today in the Bosnia war: officials will meet in Russia's -Bosnian Serbs ignored ef­embassy in Zagreb next week forts by the U.N. High Commis­for talks on ending all hostili· sioner for Refugees to open up ties, Russian Deputy Foreign Maglaj for aid convoys and re­Minister Vitaly Churkin an· jected a new request to let nounced today. relief trucks reach the Muslim 
Bloodshed began in the enclave in north-central Bosnia. Balkans when Serbs and Croats Maglaj's 19,000 residents fought a bitter six-month war in have not received a U.N. aid 1991 in which at least 10,000 convoy since October. They live 

people died. A U.N.-imposed on food from U.N. air drops, (mostly Muslim) -Frontline truce has kept an uneasy peace while enduring regular Serb 
since, but the two sides have shelling. [!) Serbs shell Bihac where one person was killed and several wounded.
never reached any formal set­-Bosnian radio reported one tlement. killed and four wounded in III Bosnian Serbs ignored efforts by Churkin said discussions shelling of Maglaj. It said the the U.N. High Commissioner for 
Refugees to open up Maglaj for aid
starting Tuesday in Zagreb northwestern Bihac enclave 
convoys and reject anew request to 
were aimed at ending the vio­also was shelled, one person 
t let relief trucks reach the city. Serbs lence and restoring normal life killed and several wounded, Y'llOJltirt!Je to shell the city. to the Krajina area, the one­and that Serb forces had inten­
third of Croatia held by Serbs. sified shelling of Bugojno in UJSerb forces intensify shelling of 
:,=::.,Bugojno in central Bosnia. '''">':;.,.
"We hope that the agreement central Bosnia. on cessation of military hostili­Sarajevo remained calm ties and all other hostile activi­today except for few small­talks after meeting Croatian ties would contribute to the im­arms violations. Serb leader Milan Martie at the provement and gradual Churkin announced the new Russian Embassy in Belgrade. normalization of Serb-Croat relations, which is a very 
Sophomores! 
Interested in beinJJ the JPW Chatrperson? 
Pick up applications at the LaFortune Info Desk March 3-16 Applications Due March 18 
For information call Christi at 4-4090 





Thursday, March 17, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Lottery affects Boston's Irish life 
By ANNE THOMPSON 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

The Kells pub hardly fits the stereotype of the dark, smoky, Irish watering hole, where wary illegal immigrants once gathered to look for work and lose their sorrows in the suds of a brew. Brass rails gleam. Speakers blare American pop music. And the patrons, for the most part, are legal. 
The difference: a visa lottery that some say has cut by more than half the number of undoc­umented Irish living in Boston, a city whose Gaelic roots have helped foster an underground network for illegal immigrants. 
One of these new Irish, An­nette O'Farrell. drains her Guinness and laughs about the day last year in Ireland when she learned she had won the lottery and the right to come to the United States. 
"I was tearing my hair out with depression. I came home and I saw this big envelope," she said. "I was so excited. It 
AaFast 
Come to the Center for Social Concerns to find out about A VOLUNTEER TEACHING SERVICE PROGRAM Archdiocese of New York 
Sister Deanna Sabetta, Director, will be at the CSC to answer questions and accept applications would like to teach in an inner city high school 
Sign up at the CSC for an interview 
Monday, March 21 10:00-5:00 Tuesday, March 22 
10:00-2:00 
A chance ofa lifetime! 
was, like, 'I finally got it, now I can leave.'" 
O'Farrell lives around the corner from The Kells in All­ston, a traditional Irish neigh­borhood. But she barely made it. She won in 1993, the last year of that special lottery, which gave the Irish prefer­ence. Of every 40,000 visas of­fered, 16,000 were set aside for the Irish, thanks to powerful backers such as Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. 
O'Farrell said she was des­perate to come to the United States; after getting a degree in agricultural science, she was lucky to get a job as a yarnshop clerk in her hometown. 
"I spend five years in college and I end up sorting out but­tons by color." said O'Farrell, now working for a biotech com­pany in Cambridge. "It's hard to understand if you don't live in Ireland the amount of unem­ployment. It's soul-destroying.'' 
O'Farrell followed her sister Caitriona, another lottery win­ner, to Boston. 
Both left to avoid an unem­ployment rate of 16 percent. Both say they will never live in Ireland again. 
Not so 26-year-old Paul Hig­gins, who left a $45,000-a-year sales job in Dublin to come to Boston, where he plans to stay about year. 
"I thought it would be a good thing to do in terms of personal development," said Higgins, who works as a waiter and a tourist trolley driver. "But I know a lot of people who had to come over because they had nothing else at home." 
A century ago, Irish came here for the same reason and eventually achieved a strong­hold on a city once ruled by Brahmins. 
Today, 20 percent of the city's 580,000 residents are of Irish descent. 
More than three dozen Irish pubs have been established since the 1980s, when immi­grants flocked to Boston for work. And this week, with the approach of St. Patrick's Day, it was announced that a cable channel will soon start up, offering Irish news, entertain­ment and sports to Boston viewers. 
The Irish had a long emer­gence that took off with John Francis "Honey Fitz" Fitzger­ald, ancestor of the Kennedy family. getting elected mayor in the early 1900s. Only last year, the city elected its first Italian­American mayor, Thomas Menino, and ended an Irish grip on city hall that lasted decades. 
Today, the Irish embassy es­timates about 25,000 Irish citi­zens live in the Boston area. Figures on how many undocu­mented Irish live here are more elusive, but Irish advocates and immigration officials agree the numbers have dropped dramat­ically in the last 10 years. 
Westinghouse's money from taxes used to lobby 
By H. JOSEF HEBERT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

When the Energy Depart­ment gave a contractor wide latitude to do work for the gov­ernment, it had no idea that nearly $1 million of the money would come right back to Washington -.-­-to lobby · the govern­ment. 
The intri­cate con­tracting rna-~ • . neuver that ~ · . involved · 
w e s t i n g _ house Electric Corp., and a Westinghouse subsidiary that manages a federal nuclear weapons complex in South Carolina, was cited Wednesday by congressional investigators examining con­tract abuses at the Energy Department. "When the government is paying to have itself lobbied, clearly something is wrong," complained Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, chairman of the Gov­ernmental Affairs Committee. While the law generally pro­hibits companies from using taxpayer money for lobbying, Glenn said that in this case it is unclear whether any laws were violated because of the contract language and the accounting procedures used by the companies involved. Glenn said he plans to ques­tion Energy Department offi­cials about the matter Thursday when his committee examines government con­tracts involving federal weapons plants. 
John Glenn 

Neither Energy Department nor Westinghouse officials could be reached immediately for comment. 
Auditors of the General Ac­counting Office, an investiga­tive agency of Congress, said in a report the Energy Department's practice of giv­ing its contractors broad authority to subcontract work has led to widespread abuses, questionable expenditures and cost overruns. 
Glenn said the expenditures by Westinghouse Savannah River Co., which manages the Savannah River weapons com­plex near Aiken, S.C., provide "a textbook example of how an agency should not manage its contractors." 
According to the GAO find­ings, the Westinghouse sub­sidiary at Savannah River used $991,000 of government money over a four-year period ending last September to pay for expenses incurred by the parent company's Washington lobbying office. 
The money was used by Westinghouse Electric's Wash­ington-based Government Business Development Office to represent Westinghouse Sa­vannah River executives before the Energy Department, the federal Office of Management and Budget, and in Congress, according to the GAO. 
While some within Westing­house apparently raised ques­tions about the propriety of such expenditures, the com­pany was advised by lawyers in South Carolina they were proper, the auditors said. The $3,613 bill for that legal opin­ion was also paid by the government. 

page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 17, 1994 
Poor care blaflled for birth crisis 
By JULIA RUBIN 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Galina Monasheva has brought thousands of babies into the world in her 20 years at Birth House No. 32, in one of Moscow's oldest neighbor­hoods. 
But the newborns she's deliv­ering these days are the weak­est and sickest ever. So are their mothers. 
"The level of general health is noticeably worse," says Monasheva, who patrols the chilly ward in a white coat and cap. Bored young women in bathrobes lean against the walls, waiting. Cats wander the hallways in search of mice. 
"The women come in with various diseases and with bad diets," says Monasheva. "We have more babies born anemic and underweight, and more birth defects." 
Statistics nationwide back her up, showing a rising number of infant illnesses and birth de­fects, such as cleft palates and cerebral palsy. 
Infant mortality rose 10 per­cent in the first two-thirds of 1993 compared to all of 1992. The birth rate fell 14 percent for the year. 
"Russia stands on the edge of an abyss," Deputy Minister of Public Health Nikolai Vaganov said recently. "For the first time in its centuries-old history, there is a danger of the nation's physical degeneration, of ir-

AP/Carl Fox 

reparable damage to its genetic fund." 
Health officials blame inade­quate health care, widespread environmental contamination, rising alcoholism among women and the poor diets and general stress that accompany declining living standards. 
"If it goes on like this, we'll lose our children," said Yevgeny Lilyin, a geneticist who heads Russia's Center for Re­habilitation of Congenital Pathology. 
Other health indicators rein­force the grim picture. 
Somalia hit with cholera; disease kills more than 1 00 
By REID MILLER 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU 

An outbreak of cholera first noticed in Somalia last month has become an epidemic, with more than 100 people already dead and the toll growing daily. 
Christian Clark, a spokesman for the U.N. Children's Fund, expressed concern Wednesday that efforts to control the epi­demic could be jeopardized by the withdrawal of Western mili­tary forces. 
The United States, Germany, Italy, France and several other nations are removing their troops from the U.N. peace­keeping force in Somalia by the end of March. 
With them are going heli­copters and airplanes that for more than a year have often been put at the disposal of U.N. and private aid agencies, allow­ing them access to parts of the country unreachable overland. 
"It's a real worry," Clark said. "Our ability to get around could be severely restricted." 
Cholera was first detected in the northern port of Bosaso a little more than a month ago. Since then, it has spread 1,000 miles south to Kismayu and to a number of points in between. 
In Bosaso, 664 people have contracted the disease and at least 22 have died, Clark said. He said there were uncon­firmed reports of 256 cases and 42 deaths in Belet Huen, near the Ethiopian border in central Somalia 
In Kismayu, 250 miles south 
of Mogadishu on the Indian 
Ocean, 261 cases have been 
confirmed the past four days, 
Clark said. Mogadishu itself has 
reported 431, with an uncon­
firmed number of deaths. 
Cholera is a viral disease 
most commonly contracted by drinking impure water. Its symptoms include high fever, vomiting and diarrhea that leave its victims critically dehy­drated. 
Diagnosed and properly treated early, it is not usually fatal. But in places like Somalia, with little sanitation and severe shortages of med­ical personnel, medicine and hospitals, it can be a ravaging killer. 
When American troops first came to Somalia in December 1992 to help break a deadly famine then scourging the country, they were given a De­fense Department pamphlet that described Somalia as per­haps the unhealthiest country on earth. 
Northwestern Summer Session '94 

Life expectancy for Russian men plummeted last year from 62 to 59 years, 13 years less than for American men. Russian women's life expectan­cy also fell, from 73.8 years to 73.2. 
The perception that Russia is being physically weakened and depopulated has been seized on by nationalists, who blame an onslaught of Western deca­dence, defined as anything from stock markets to rock mu­sic. 
Lawmaker Yuri Vlasov, for instance, recently argued that individualism, which he equat­ed with greed and selfishness, was an American import "organically alien to Russia" and destroying Russia's spiri­tual health. 
Many of the health problems are legacies of the Soviet regime. 
But the economic turmoil and social stress brought on by the collapse of Communism have only aggravated the health woes. 
At her Birth House, Mona­sheva will not give figures for birth defects except to say there are now "several dozen" a year at birth. 
With 1,350 babies born there last year, that implies an extremely high rate. 
Government figures show the number of babies with obvious deformities rose 6 percent na­tionwide in the first eight months of 1993 compared with all of 1992. 
Russians to reduce plutonium production 
By H. JOSEF HEBERT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Russia has agreed to phase out the production of weapons­grade plutonium from its two remaining operating weapons reactors under a protocol signed Wednesday by the United States and Russian gov­ernments. 
The agreement, however, is contingent on completion of substitute energy plants that would replace the electricity that currently is provided by the military reactors which are located at Tomsk and in Krasnoyarsk, according to an administration official. 
Energy Secretary Hazel O'Leary, who worked out the agreement in two days of dis­cussions with the Russians, said the administration would work with Russia over the next two months to develop a financing package for the alternative energy plants. 
The agreement envisions completion of a natural gas­powered turbine facility at Tomsk in Siberia and a coal­fired power plant at Krasno­yarsk in south central Russia. Completion of both projects could take a year or more even if financing is arranged, those familiar with the issue said. 

But the Russian govern­ment's commitment to work toward closing the Tomsk and Krasnoyarsk reactors was seen by nuclear nonproliferation advocates as a significant development in safeguarding Russia's stockpile of plutonium from misuse. 
Steve Dolley of the private Washington-based Nuclear Control Institute called it "a big breakthrough. It would be the end of plutonium produc­tion for all intensive purpos­es." 
Daryl Kimball, associate director for the Physicians for Social Responsibility, urged the Clinton administration and Russia "to move immediately to solidify the agreement." But he said that it was "vital that the cutoff occur quickly, within a year, rather than several years down the road." 
The reactors at Tomsk and Krasnoyarsk are the only re­maining dual purpose reactors in Russia that produce steam for heat and electricity in the regions where they operate, and also produce plutonium for the weapons program. The United States already has halt­ed plutonium production since there is enough plutonium available from discarded war­heads to meet any' future needs. 
Concentration in Philosophy, Politics and Economics 
PPE is an interdisciplinary concentration for students majoring in the Philosophy, Government or Economics departments. The concentration consists of a core seminar entitled JUSTICE SEMINAR. three one credit colloquia taken over three semesters, and three other courses chosen from a concentration list. Limited to 25 students per year. PPE stresses careful reading, discussion and writing. PPE is concerned with exploring the theoretical issues which connect these three disciplines. 
PPE Committee Neil Delaney-Dept. of Philosophy, E. A Goerner-Dept. of Government. David O'Connor-Dept. of Philosophy, John Roos-Dept. of Government. Jennifer Warlick-Dept. of Economics, Charles 
Silber-Dept. of Economics, Phil Mirowski -Dept. of Economics. 
Students interested in the program should contatct Professor Roos in 424 Decio. 
631-7556 Applications for the Fall I 994 Justice seminar are due in Professor Roos' office by March 30. 
Made in the shade. 
It's not always possible to do every­thing you'd like to do. Too many 
interests, too few hours in the day, too few weeks in the term. Fortu­

nately, Northwestern's Summer Session gives you a chance to catch up, or get ahead of the game. You can earn a full year's credit in chemistry, physics, or a language in eight or nine weeks. After a summer at Northwestern you'll have it made '-in the shade. 
Now, get a 25-percent discount on every class you take after your first class at Northwestern's Summer Session. It's a smart move. 
For more information, please call 1-800-FINDS NU. 
Call I·800·FINDS NU (in Illinois, call 708-49I­5250), or fax (708-491-3660) or mail this coupon to Summer Session '94, 2115 North Campus Drive, Suite 162, Evanston, Illinois 60208-2650, for your free copy of the Summer Session '94 catalog 
(available in March). 
Send the catalog to 0 my home 0 my school. 
Name 
School Address 

City State Zip 
Home Address 

City State Zip Northwestern Is an equal opponunily educator and employer. 
----~~--~--------~--------~~----~----~--~---------~----~ 
Thursday, March 17, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Nixon defends meetings with Russian opposition 
Associated Press with Kravchuk. Nixon, 81, arrived in Kiev KIEV from Moscow in the morning 
Richard Nixon defended his and departed for London in meetings with Russian opposi­the afternoon. He discussed tion leaders in Moscow and economic reforms with said Wednesday that he would Kravchuk and Ukraine's rela­have talked with Ukrainian tions with Russia and the opposition 
United States. leaders had Ukraine, paralyzed by ram­there been pant inflation and chronic fuel time. shortages, has been slow to 
"I did embark on economic reforms something in since breaking from the Soviet Russia that Union two years ago. no one has "President Kravchuk showed ever done, me a paper with new policiessomething Richard Nixon that will lead to not only more that I have privatization in Ukraine, but not done in my 10 visits to the will also create a more attrac­Soviet Union," the former tive climate for foreign invest­president said. "I met with ment," Nixon said. every opposition leader. I cov­"And political stability can ered everybody. It is very be established if economic sta­important in a democracy not bility is accomplished." to just meet the leaders in Nixon said Russia has been power." more aggressive toward 
Nixon met Ukrainian Presi­Ukraine since Russia's parlia­dent Leonid Kravchuk on a mentary elections in brief visit to Kiev on December, which brought Wednesday and urged aggres­ultranationalist Vladimir 
sive economic reforms. · Zhirinovsky to prominence. Russian President Boris 
Yeltsin shunned Nixon after he Ukraine and Russia have ar­met last week with one of gued over Ukraine's share of Yeltsin's fiercest rivals, former the former Soviet nuclear Vice President Alexander Rut­arsenal and of the Black Sea skoi. Fleet, over the Crimean penin­
"We would not have had a sula and over Ukrainian debts Yeltsin incident here in to Russia for fueL Ukraine," Nixon told reporters Nixon said he foresees a after his one-hour meeting peaceful resolution. 
Mexican uprising affects elections 
By ANITA SNOW mer social development secre­marred by fraud charges. Associated Press tary is not a given. Cardenas is running again, 
This year's surprise entry but has failed thus far to spark
MEXICO CITY was an armed uprising in Chi­the broad popular support he 
As he crosses the country in apas, led by a guerrilla in a ski did in 1988 when hundreds of his quest for the presidency, mask known as Subcoman­thousands of Mexicans Luis Donaldo Colosio is encoun­dante Marcos. His demands for marched in his support. tering problems rare for a gov­democratic reforms have pro­Many who agreed with Car­erning party candidate: sparse voked broad debate and could denas' criticisms during an eco­crowds, spotty news coverage force the cleanest election in nomic crisis in 1988 grew to and even some heckling. Mexican history. support Salinas after he helped
Colosio fell 
The New Year's rebellion and heal the economy and negoti­silent on ensuing peace talks pushed ated the North American Free Tuesday, for Colosio's campaign off the front Trade Agreement. Salinas is example, pages and re-energized Cama­prohibited by the constitution when a stu­cho, who was snubbed for the from seeking another six-yeardent at a ruling party's presidential nom­term. campaign ination in November. Yet the economic miracle speech in The 48-year-old former long touted by Salinas, in which Monterrey Mexico City mayor has hinted he sold off hundreds of ineffi­asked him Carlos Salinas he may launch an independent cient state enterprises, has also about a possi-de Gotari campaign if he's dissatisfied worn thin on some voters. ble election with the pace of political While Salinas last year
bid by his chief rival, Manuel reforms. slashed inflation to a singleCamacho Solis, the govern­"There are some very serious digit for the first time since tak­ment's peace envoy to troubled doubts that Colosio will win, ing office in 1988, the economyChiapas state. especially if Camacho decides Jagged in late 1993 under his 
"He is a Mexican who is com­to run," said political analyst tight monetary policies and the pleting the responsibility given Sergio Sarmiento. "Colosio still slowdown worldwide. to him by the president of the has not generated much popu­Gross Domestic Product, a republic," Colosio said after lar support and Camacho is the measure of all goods and ser­regaining his composure. "We perfect candidate for those who vices, shrank 1.3 percent in the 
all hope that his mission will be don't want to vote for the offi­third quarter of 1993, but the fruitful because we all desire cial candidate of the PRI." economy began picking up peace and reconciliation in Chi­If Camacho does run, he again in the fourth quarter with apas." could siphon off votes that nor­0.2 percent growth, The Trea­
Colosio, the heir-apparent to mally might go to the PRI can­sury Department said. President Carlos Salinas de didate, throwing the race wide The leading candidate on the 
Gortari, is still the front-runner open. right, Diego Fernandez de Ce­of the Institutional Revolution­Campaigns in Mexico had vallos of the National Action ary Party (PRI) for the Aug. 21 long resembled coronations, Party, is having his own prob­election. until Salinas eked out the nar­lems trying to show the public
But for the first time in 65 rowest of victories in 1988 over how his pro-business policies years of one-party rule, a PRJ left-leaning candidate differ from the PRI's free-mar­
victory by the 43-year-old for-Cuauhtemoc Cardenas in a vote ket reforms. 
Defense Secretary Perry heads to Russia to push defense conversion 
By JOHN DIAMOND days of meetings on Russia's Ukraine. In Moscow he will $100 million out of $2.5 billion Western plot to disarm the Associated Press nuclear arsenal and the prob­meet in closed session with the in total aid to those countries nation, " Perry said. lem of turning tank and missile defense and foreign affairs this year, Perry said. The Russia has reduced weapons
' ··. · • ·SHANNON, Ireland 
faCtories over to civilian pro~ committee of the Russia's legis­administration is planning to purchases by almost 70 per­Defense Secretary William duction. Over the weekend and lature. He wiJJ also plan joint provide an additional $100 mil­cent, causing the same kind of Perry heads for the former next week, Perry carries a U.S.-Russian military exercises. lion next year. job losses being experienced by 
Soviet Union in the hopes of 
similar agenda to Kazakhstan, The entourage may witness The money would go to con­U.S. defense workers, Perryreducing lingering nuclear 
Ukraine and Belarus. the dismantling of a nuclear cerns willing to work with U.S. said. danger and helping to convert Perry will be given ex­warhead at the SS-24 site. businesses in joint ventures to While defense conversion will the region's vast defense indus­traordinary access to once "The Ukrainians have been develop civilian lines of produc­occupy much of Perry's time, 
try. 
super-secret Soviet facilities, very forthcoming about open­tion. the disposition of 25,000 Accompanied by assistant including the Baikonur space ing up and letting us see things About half the funding is slat­nuclear weapons across the secretaries and business repre­center in Kazakhstan and an we could never have imagined ed to go toward prefabricated Soviet Union will be highest on 
sentatives, Perry left for 
SS-24 intercontinental ballistic just a few years ago," Perry housing production. Other his agenda. His key goals, Moscow on Wednesday for two missile site in Pervomaysk, said in an interview enroute to funding could go toward pro­articulated in speeches this Moscow. duction of personal computers, week in Washington and Cam­And along with his briefing Perry said. bridge, Mass., are to prevent books, Perry carries the But Perry said the idea of nuclear proliferation from the promise of U.S. financial aid to Pentagon officials promoting former Soviet Union, ensure t former Soviet concerns that defense conversion in Russia the safe management of until recently built weapons of presents a delicate political Russia's nuclear arsenal, pro­Faculty Upper Room Series mass destruction aimed at the problem. mote stability among the for­United States. "There's a lot of feeling in mer Soviet states, and avoid "a
Dinner-Discussion 
Throughout the former Soviet Russia, especially among the re-establishment of an an­"Faith and Professional Life: republics the seed money for ultranationalists that these tagonistic global rivalry with defense conversion could total conversion programs are a Russia."
Hazards and Opportunities" 
WEDNESDAY 23 March 1994 Faculty Dining Room of the South Dining Hall Dinner at 7:00 p.m. -Discussion until 9:00p.m. 
Speaker Professor Kenneth M. Sayre Department of Philosophy 
Reservations: Retum the form received in the mail or simply call John Gerber, C.S.C. at 1-8601 or Sharon Harwell at 1-8607 by .\1onday, Marcil 21, at latest. 
A donation of $5.00 at tire door or by check made out to Campus Minist1y can help defray the expenses of the dinner. 
~-~ 
0MPUS MINISTRY 
Umversity o! Notre Dame Notre Dame. IN 46555 
lrli•"ry(.;our:nu•,n ?UI•i':l9 (j<;lfi 

91101fl )i~I\11'J•'2:}q-52~2 f1S~ItF• r.'l'mmuntly r1•n111 ?HI•'Jq.l\lhll 


5 Y R A C' .. U 5 E A B R 0 A . D 
Looking for a good exchange rate to study abroad next semester? 

3.75 GPA and up=$1,500 Scholarship 3.50 GPA and up=$1,000 Scholarship Study abroad grants based on need also available. 
Syracuse University sponsors study abroad sites in florence, Italy London, England Harare, Zimbabwe Madrid, Spain Strasbourg, France 
su credit • Field trips/Traveling seminars • Internships • Study for a semester, year or summer Courses taught in English and in host country language 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD •119 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 1-80(}235-3472. 315-443-3471 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, March 1 7, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
John Lucas  Joseph Riley  
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran  Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge  
Vi.owpoinr Ediror ........................ Suzanne Fry  Ad Design Manager.. .................... Ryan Maylayter  
Sports Ediror .................... George Dohrmann  Producrion Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser  
Accent Ediror ............................... Mary Good  Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan  
Photo Editor.......................Scon Mendenhall  OTS Direcror ....................................... Tom Lillig  
Sainr Mary's Editor............... Elizabeth Regan  Conuoller..................................... Krisren Manina  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the. University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poltc1es of the admlmst~­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as posSible. UnSigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Ne.ws E~itor, Viewpoint Ediror, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sp~rts Editor, and Sawt Marys Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not ~ecessanl; those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Samt Marys com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advenising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  


Asian week occasion for learning Thanks given for support ofAIDS Quilt display 
Dear Edicor: who were born infeoted with 

On behalf of the mothers of AIDS and have died. At the time 

F.A.C.E., I would like to thank 

these women were pregnantthe students and Father Mc­none knew they were HIV 
Dermott for being so gracious positive; one of the mothers 

in allowing their AIDS quilt to died and three are currently

be a part of the recent display at living with HIV or full blown 

Stepan Center. In the four AIDS. 

years since my brother's death As the director of a supportfrom AIDS, I have encountered group my message is this: don't 

some of the most 

be so quick to judge, one daycompassionate, courageous and you may find yourself in ourloving people who also have footsteps.
experienced AIDS in their life. 

The National AIDS quilt is ourI think it is very easy for the greatest education tool that weuninformed to cast judgment have; it increases awareness of on others when they have not the devastation that this epi­
experienced the hatred,

ly from China. Since the 1970's, demic has created around theostracism and anger that so
all of my relatives have been how they may sound to some­show my respect. world, it gives faces to the living in the States. However, one who has never heard of Unfortunately, I never statistics, it increases AIDS
many families experience with the Chinese culture has never this disease. awareness and it does change
them before. Second, after get­learned how to say the prayers For example, AIDS has manyleft them. Consequently, I was 
ting over the initial "strang~­nor did I ever learn when or attitudes. 
raised immersed in this culture ness," think about ways m how the rituals were supposed faces; the gays, the IV drug Mother Theresa speaks of 
users, the hemophiliacs, the

and tried my best to assimilate which our rituals are the same. to be performed. Despite my seeing the face of Christ in the
people who received tainted

the American culture into the poor, the lepers of society and
In their home, there was a insufficient knowledge of the blood through transfusions, the
Chinese culture I was experi­in the unwanted. Maybe we
corner of the family room des­details of my grandparents' re­HIV positive women who were
encing. need to see his face in the peo­
ignated as a place of worship. ligious rituals, I hope that this infected by their husbands or
I did not choose one over the ple living with AIDS. Could it be 
Here were portraits of ances­sharing of what I know about boyfriends, the babies born to
other, but instead chose ele­He lives there now and we just
tors, sticks of incense in a hold­this aspect my background has HIV positive women and the
ments from both and therefore don't see? 
er, and a basket of fresh fruits helped expose you to a culture last face is worn by those of us
made myself unique. I know 
placed in front of my ancestors different from yours. 
who have lost someone to thisthat some Asian Americans try to "eat." During special occa­More importantly, I hope that disease.

to deny or hide their back­
sions, like Chinese New Year after this week, you might have The F.A.C.E. quilt repre­
ground, but I cannot under­
when big feasts were prepared, a better appreciation of the di­sented the women who were
stand why. Everyone is differ­ANNE RETTIG
my grandparents made sure verse cultures that exist in the infected by their husbands or
ent and unique in some way, Director of Aids Volunteers
that the incense was lighted world. 
boyfriends and their babies

and I believe that having a Warren County, Ohio
and that chopsticks, tiny cups Even at Notre Dame, there background different from "the of wine, and bowls of rice and are many people whose back­
norm" is something that one 
food were all placed in front of grounds differ from yours. Get 
should be proud of, not 
the portraits. In addition, at to know these people and learn ashamed of. 
another part of the house were from each other. In the end One piece of my culture that I the same things, except that you may realize that even wanted to share is a religious these offerings were for the though some aspects of yourself 
ritual that my grandparents 
gods. may contrast, you in fact are performed. Although what I am After everything was set up, I not so different. 
about to describe may sound 
remembered my ancestors and THERESA LIE 
strange to you, consider these 
gods to show their respect. I Junior two things. First, think about 
also bowed as my grandparents Lyons Hall your own religious rituals and said the prayer so that I could 
DOONESBURY 



-
ACCE-NT 
Thucsday, March 17, 1994 page 11 
Hum an Irish tune 
Bands from 
Emerald Isle 
make a mark 
on tfre U.S. 
•

musrc scene 
By 

Rob Adams 
Music Critic 
Hothouse Flowers were discov­ered by Bono in Dublin. 
''In the Hardstone City where the dust gets in your eyes/Pa he's out drinking and there's children cry­
ing," sings Liam 0' Maoniai to begin the Hothouse Flowers' 1990 album, Home. Contained in those 24 syllables is the epito­me of contemporary Irish rock-n-roll. Panged and raucous, its simplistic descrip­tions of life in "Hardstone City" delegate instructions to listen and listen closely. 
Modern Irish music is usually extremely forceful in its delivery. When it is angry, it is often the most indomitable rage imagin­able. When it is beautiful, it can be a gor­geous gem, untouchable by comparison. Overlooked far too much in the past, many Irish bands are slowly making names for themselves here in America, the most important music market on the globe. Taking the styles of today and combining it witli the folk that surrounds the country's boundaries, Irish bands of the 1990's are clever and intense, caring about the music they make. 
Hothouse Flowers are a band capable of tearing the roof off at any given moment; 0' Maoniai's rich, fluid vocals are flanked by mountains of plush arrangements and textures of solid sound. Production is near­ly flawless on all three Hothouse Flowers albums. 
Besides the aching social commentary of 
"Hardstone 
c i t y • " 
Hothouse Flowers exhib­it their variety through the heartfelt emotion of "I'm Sorry" from their 1988 debut, People and the alluring soulful bal­ladry of "Thing of Beauty" f r o m 1993's Songs 
from the Rain. 
The C ran­berries pelted t h e scene on this side of t h e 
Atlantic beginning with 

buzz clips during the summer of '93, coming from their Ev~rybody Else is Doing it So Why Can't We album. Dubbed by many as "The Irish Sundays" citing their songs of unrequited love and steady mellow rhythms along with the same impassioned female singer up front with a strong accent as similarities. 
All comparisons aside, however, Dolores 0' Riordan is a virtual potpourri of sounds, and, although she makes no amends to curb her strong accent, its flow blends nicely with the background surroundings. 
Harboring upon themes ranging from fantasy to realty, from pain to defi­ance, and basing 0' Riordan's ethereal chords behind jan­gling guitar riffs, the Cranberries bring melody to the forefront in their music. 
One of the newest Irish bands beginning to gain recognition are the Devlins from their debut release Drift. Led by Colin Devlin's hypnotic spoken vocals, the Devlins bring a blend of folk, pop, and funk that all audi­ences can relate to. 
Devlin himself has received praise and comparisons to many great singers such as Mark Knopfler and Bob Dylan. His mesh­ing of whispers and growls as well as themes of dark and light seem to be the future of Irish music. 
Therapy? is a Belfast band that qualifies for this article simply because they are unquestionably visionary. Their raw blend of power-tool punk and psychotic lyrics seem to equip the speakers with an array of weaponry, and no dreams are safe after just one listen. 
"We're fascinated by people, basically," says Andy Cairns who plays guitar and sings in the trio, "and the way people are fascinated by sex, death, and violence." 
It is through feasting on information concerning the theories of noise, anxiety, and alienation that this trio gets their macabre lyrics. 
Troublegum, their latest release, is a continuous mix of powerful hooks and monstrous melodies, seemingly never even pausing to take a break. 
Possibly the most troubled of all Irish artists, however, is Sinead 0' Connor. whose controversies overshadow her amazing abilities to write wonderful songs. 
Her completely unbridled voice conforms for no one, writhing with pain in "Am I Not Your Girl," stinging with self-righteousness in "The Last Day of Our Acquaintance," and dripping with untamed passion in her first hit single, "I Want Your Hands on Me." 
Unfortunately, these days 0' Connor is 
plagued with the problem to sing or not to 
sing, as recent events have made it too dif­ficult for her to go on with her musical career. 0' Connor seems to be a product of Ireland's truly tormented environment. 
Of course, no piece on Irish music would be complete without at least a brief look at Ireland's most famous band and possibly the most famous band in the -world, U2. 
U2's strongest trait is that they have 
been able not only to 
create exceptional 
music, but they 
have been able to 
make music that 
keeps up with the 
times. Beginning as 
a crunchy punk 
band in the 70's, 
they slowly evolved 
to a rock band and 
} most recently, to a 
§ dance band, adding 
new and original fla­
vor to each work 

a they release, while 
~ still maintaining a 
g. sound which is unde­l niably theirs: Bono's ~ extensive lyrics, The 
Edge's lumberjack gui­tar wizardry, and Larry Mullen Jr.'s tight­ly-wound drums. 
Zooropa, U2's latest release, continues their experimentation as The Edge gained another lead vocal and nabbed some production credits. Johnny Cash appears on "The Wanderer" as U2 proves once 
'Itis too hard to think 
when this head ·is full of rain too hard to talk when I have nothing to say.' 
An Emotional Fish 

again, they will do anything to exploit the human ego. 
Other bands of Ireland are just coming up and deserving of recognition. Whether it is the Frames' postpunk pop rhythms, An Emotional Fish's psychedelic rock, or the Young Dubliners Celtic folk, the future of Irish music is definitely secure. Continuing the Irish traditions of strong soulful roots, intense emotion, strong social themes, and the expanding of the boundaries of rock by injecting it with down-home Irish folk, these bands understand the necessities and the desire it takes to be good musicians. ... 
In honor of St. Patrick's Day, PolyGram has given me 13 copies of their four-play sampler featuring two songs each from Redd Kross, Catherine Wheel, The Veldt, and James. Call me at 631-5303, starting at 11:00 a.m. if you would like afree copy of this CD sampler. The first 13 people to call me will get a chance to listen to four up-and-coming bands. 
The party's over 
University of Dayton students get a spring break instead of a Saint Patrick's Day party 
By LYNN BAUWENS Saint Mary's Accenr Ediror 
The University of Dayton has a spring break that it never had before. in part because of the Saint Patrick's Day celebrations at the school that received na­tional attention in the news. 
"We never had a spring break before," said Mary Hardig, a student who transferred from Dayton to Saint Mary's last year. "They are always going to have a spring break on Saint Patrick's Day. It really got out of hand." 
The catholic university in Dayton, Ohio, did not institute a spring break simply because of the infamous parties on March 17, according to Joseph Belle, Assistant Vice President for Student Development and Director of Residential Life. 
"We cannot deny that we have had problems with Saint Patrick's Day. Over the past five or six years, we have been con­templating a spring break," he explained. "We were one of the only schools left without a break." 
The University of Dayton owns a large percentage ·of old houses near the campus where most of the partying occurred. Students referred to the row of approximately thirty houses as "The Ghetto." Popular activities included setting fire to furni­ture in the street and turning over cars. 
"People would sit on roofs and watch the fires. They would try to jump from one roof to another," Hardig said~ 
She remembered one alum­nus who was paralyzed in a fall when trying to jump to another roof. The former student injured did not remember the incident, according to Hardig. 
"You had to lock your doors," she said. "People would come in and take furniture to throw into the fire. You'll never see this anywhere else." 
John Martin, a sophomore· at the University of Dayton. never experienced the Saint Patrick's Day reveling, hut he has heard 
stories from upperclassmen about students turning over cars. 
"Last year. there was noth­ing," he said. "There were 60 or 70 policeman-4 or 5 on every corner. That's why every­one went on break this year. When it made the national news, l guess that the school got upset." 
The administration has been pleased with the academic and behavioral benefits of the new spring break scheduled for this ~eek, according to Belle. 
"We've had some reputation in the past," he said. "But there's no party this year." 
-

~-~--~----------~ 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
-

EAST
Loss 
continued from page 20 

underneath. Letitia Bowen would sit in despair on the bench in the closing minutes of the game, the image of many a layup taking a bad roll no doubt burning in her mind. 
Maybe it was Bowen who best exemplified the team early on. The junior forward scored first for the Irish, and had six of her team's first ten points. She was to soon meet with terrible luck, however, as too many shots rolled off the rim instead of falling through the net. The cold spell slowed the Irish at­tack, and Bowen would finish the game with only nine points on 4-14 shooting. 
Bad luck. Bad breaks. 

At times, bad basketball. The Irish would suffer through a six minute drought in the first half, as a 16-15 lead with 11:51 to play disintegrated into a 27­16 deficit with 5:51 left on the clock. 
The momentum had clearly shifted into Minnesota's hands, and, urged on by a surprisingly large maroon-clad following at the JACC, the Gophers rattled off the before-mentioned 12-0 run, threatening to bury the suddenly toothless Irish. 
That's where the Irish attitude came in. Notre Dame could have laid down and died, could have let the bad breaks and the back-breaking three pointers send them into halftime staring up at a huge deficit. 
They haven't done so all year, and they didn't last night. 
Instead, the Irish decided to go on a little tear of their own, ripping off a 14-3 run to go into halftime down only 31-30. 
Kara Leary scored eight of those points, showing the un­canny drive and determination that has endeared her to play­ers, coaches, and fans alike. 
Beth Morgan scored the last four of those points, and led the team with 10 in the first half. Morgan wowed the crowd with several spectacular shots early on, and it looked as though the Irish surge would carry over into the second half. 
Maybe the Irish should have played this game on the road. 

Too many times this season the team had had huge second halves away from home, and they ended their stellar season with a 10 game road win streak. They were only 9-4 at the JACC coming into this game, and would finish at 9-5 after collapsing in the second half. 
Minnesota didn't help Notre Dame's cause at all in the sec­ond half, and it can be said that the officials didn't do much good either. Referees Forrest Phillips and Bill Pickett would send the Gophers to the line 30 times in the second half, often­times on questionable calls. 
The Gopher players didn't hesitate to capitalize on the opportunities, nailing 21 of the 30 shots to help key a 50 point 
--~--~---~----,__________......., 

Minnesota second half. 
After sopho­more forward Carey Poor had given the lead back to the Irish for the first time in 18 minutes with eight consecu­tive points, Minnesota forward Nancy Alexander would begin the free throw marathon by capitalizing on a three point play, giving the Gophers a 43-42 lead. 
Minnesota would never re­linquish their lead, and Alexander would never miss another shot. The 
senior role player would finish with 13 points off the bench on 5-5 shooting from the field, including a 2-2 performance from behind the three-point line. 
Alexander was one of sev­eral unheralded Gopher players who helped prolific scorer Carol Ann Shudlick shoulder the offensive burden. 
On an average night, Shudlick scores 23.6. Last night she scored 19. On an average night, Alexander scores 4.3 points. Last night she tallied 13. 
Point guard Nikki Coates usu­ally scores around 7.8 points a game. Against the Irish, Coates poured in 14. 
Beth Morgan usually scores a lot for the Irish, and last night was no exception. 
March 17, 1994 
The freshman phenom led all scorers with 26 points on 10-21 shooting, leading Minnesota coach Linda Hill-MacDonald to proclaim, "Beth Morgan is phe­nomenal. Muffet is lucky to have her for three more years." 
All of Beth Morgan's points couldn't save Notre Dame though, and the Irish bid for a comeback would fall short, giv­ing the 18-10 Gophers a some­what stunning 81-76 win. 
The defeat left the 22-7 Irish shocked and disturbed, but did nothing to erase an extremely successful season. 
A visibly shaken Muffet Mc­Graw would comment on this fact in the post-game press con­ference, saying, "I think we had a great season. I'm proud of what this team accomplished. This game should not take any­thing away from our season. We played hard and had some good runs. It really hurts to lose at home and play so poorly· in our last game. I feel bad espe­cially for the seniors." 
One of those seniors would also comment on the loss, her love for her school and her teammates at one point moving her to tears. 
''I'm proud to have been a part of this team," said Kara Leary after the game. "I've come a long way as a player and as a person, and I'm really close to my teammates and coaches. Although I didn't go out on a good note, I can always say I gave 100 percent. I'm just proud to have been a part of this program." 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for .next-.day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds myst b,e.prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per characte-r per day, including all spaces. _, --~ 
WANTED: Professional couple ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER ••The best from tour in '94 •• seeks a personable young lady to EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO CANCELLATIONIII The video I lost my watch a year ago today!! -show me vittles ... (bing!)
ILOST & FOUND I 
care for our three girls 8, 5 and 2, $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN-teleconference "American -ohp! now i'm going to have to step 
m-f, 7:30-5 pm, for the summer. NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. Choices"has been CANCELED for on your face! Gold Loop earring, lost MUST BE DEPENDABLE. Please MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEG-this Sunday, March 20 at 6 p.m. in -yeah, we can throw rocks at somewhere between P.E. and call 271-9798 if you are interested. ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL room 101 DeBartolo. Due to satel-SEXY LEGS SEXY LEGS Chelsea's window Juniper Road. OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN-lite difficulties, the program will be SEXY LEGS IS COMING -whoahl easy on the jesuits Aunt Eileen is going to kill me TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 postponed indefinitely. SEXY LEGS SEXY LEGS -nos vamos a chilly willy's if I don't get it back. Work in the Wild! Tour guide, dude ext A29. Student government apologizes for -shoom ... ring-a-noodle 
ranch, instructor, lifeguard, trail this abrupt CANCELLATION. -are you comfortable? PLEASE call Tara 4-4836 maintenance, hotel staff, firefighter Please spread the word. Thanks! -Andy, you're blossoming 
+ volunteer and government posi-SUMMER LIFE GUARD Top 29 quotes from the Yankees on -dude, half the people in this state Found a gold chain in north quad lions available at national parks. We need 1 or 2 fully-certified life-Amelia Island: can't even read during Spring Break. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Over guards for our miniature wave pool Chris Knych 29)And when he's in, HE'S ALL -it just doesn't get any better than 
Owner please give description to 25,000 openings! Apply now for in Granger. 40 hr. wk. at $5.50/hr. Top of the mornin' to ye! May the THE WAY INI! this (i love it!) Basil at 4-4472. best positions. For more info call: 1-Complete season hours. Season Luck of the Irish be with you today 28)Can we hear the Garth song 
206-545-4804 5/25/94-Labor day, 1994. and always! You are OUR POT OF 'again? Top 10 Spring Break Quotes from LOST: GOLD RING W/ GREAT ext. N5584 Weekends only after school starts. GOLD! 27)Juan Valdez is in ... for $20 the the South Dakota "Skis, Guns, & SENTIMENTAL VALUE Call Jim Wyllie 277-1335. Love, donkey can watch. Beef Tour" REWARD OFFERED IF FOUND Help! Need ride for two to Your O'Family 26)This one's for Rose 10. Don't worry Reindl, just substi-PLEASE CALL X4298 Mnpls/St.Paul area for Easter 25)1'11 see you, and raise you TWO lute "lifemate" wherever it says 
break. Will help with gas and tolls. FOR RENT Pangborn Hall presents ... cheerios. "wife" LOST -in SOH Green LL Bean 284-4449 THE PRICE IS RIGHT 24)Can we play a drinking game? 9. You Nicgorski? backpack & running shoes. Reward. Sunday, March 20 at 3 p.m. Let's play a drinking game! 8. Yes, I'd like to order Groovin'! Call Mary 4-2240. anyone interested in singing, play-FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, in Washington Hall. 23)Hey there, Gramps! 7. These cookies taste like a-! 
ing an instrument, or acting in the KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF Tickets $3 sold at LaFortune 22)Yankees in Georgia? How'd they 6. They don't taste too bad for Found -Watch outside SOH Tues. freshman class mass on April10, CAMPUS. 272-0615 until Saturday & before the perfor-g_et here? uh .. Kat brought us. doggy biscuits! am call4-3710 to identify please contact Brian at x 1799 mance on Sunday. 21)SWO is me 5. Goshdarnit, the Reptile Review is 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES-Proceeds go to: 20)As long as I've known Old only on weekends! Found-Lady's watch in Nieuwland ND/SMC EVENTS The Boys & Girls Club. Marge... 4. Uh, do y'all want Mt. Rushmore in on Wed. Call631-6387 to identify Looking for a Used Car in Good (219)291-7153 19)We scored the first 5 minutes on the picture? 
WANTED 
Condition. Call 4-2029. the island! 3. The girls did it!!! Mitchell Cross-Turtle Creek Townhome for school 18)Take a big bite of my gummi country State Champs! MANAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES. year of 1994-95 is available. Call glob. 2. What does it take to change the 
Arthur Victor Painting, Inc. is Reg at x1480 for information. Shane-0, 17)1 will survive essence of a man? $750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum-searching for ambitious students to We heard Bridget's COMING! 16)Man, I just got screwed on the 1 . Wave that Hebron Brick! Wave it! mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860-fill summer management positions beach. 0219 throughout Indiana including South FOR SALE 15)He could make me his b••ch in a 22 years old? 
Bend. Complete training and field heartbeat. Trish Nolan? SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE THE support. High income potential. 1-IBM Proprinter II XL, wide-carriage, 14)1 swear he's undressing us with YES-OEFINITELY! ENVIRONMENT EARN $2500-800-775-4745. like new, call Lisa@ 631-5890 SUMMER JOBS -ALL his eyes. $3500 AND MAKE A DIFFER-LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES-13)11ove Grimace too, but I'm not Born today, on the day of St. ENCE. Campaign to save endan-1984 BUICK ELECTRA LTD. TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS taking him to bed. Patrick, gered species, promote recycling Needed Desperately-A private LIGHT BLUE 4-DOOR ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR 12)Want to Bond? Tricia Nolan is not at Gatwick. and stop polluters. Work with major Calc 106 TUTOR 2 or 3 days CALL X3001 WI OFFER LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-11 )What is this? Hit the Hippee? Where she is, we do not know, national environmental groups such a week. Pay negotiable. 8373 10)Fett!! Don't sit there! But we're pretty sure it's not as Sierra Club, Green Corps and Call Shannon at x4001. 9)Hey, Pastey-boy! Heathrow. the PIRGs. Positions in FOR SALE -INDY 500 TICKETS. 8)Keep the sewer below your nose Regardless of her present location, Indianapolis, 28 states SUBWAY is NOW HIRING GREAT 3RD +4TH TURN closed. It's time to begin the line of 
& D.C. Call Jamie: 1-800-75-If you are an enthusiastic, depend-ACTION. CALL Quality Copies, Quickly. ?)There they are, the 3 who couldn't jubilation. EARTH. able self starter, 272-7233. THE COPY SHOP get it done. Today she joins the ranks of the 
we would like to talk to you. Flexible LaFortune Student Center 6)Bert Feranchak really old, CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up hours and friendly atmosphere. Call Trek 800 bike for sale Phone 631-COPY 5)0hmigosh! Ed? I Are you OK? But, unlike cheese, she is not to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Jacki or Penny at 277-7744 for an 15" frame, 2 mo. warranty remain-4)He thought our song was 'We growing mold. Land-Tour companies. World travel. interview. ing at outpost didn't start the fire" Best birthday wishes from your Summer & Full-Time employment $250 or best offer, Professional couple seek to adopt a 3)Cindy wants a hot tub for 8 and 4 friends and from a tall Somali, available. No exp necessary. For call Lee @ 1 x5802 newborn baby. Will give your child hot guys. But the heartiest greetings, of info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext. all the opportunities you would want 2)Useless, really ... course, come from Boutros Boutros­C5584 CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -for him/her, particularly love, guid-1)1 wouldn't kick him out of bed. GhaiL 
Earn up to $2000+/month working PERSONAL ance and support. We live in the Summer Girl Needed -Chicago on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com-suburbs of an East Coast City. We Happy Birthday, Trish!!! 
• [ J 
North suburbs. Live in & help care panies. World traveL Summer & rave party '94 are active people who love dogs YEAH GUBI'S for infant, 2,7, & 11 yr. olds. Prefer Full-Time employment available. No drugs, sex & booze galore and children but sadly cannot bear If you can't make the DEAD in non-smoker w/ drivers license. experience necessary. For more fisher hall 337 our own chil~ren. Inquiries should Chicago do the next best thing. He was adopted, so he went to IU. 
Salary + room & board. Interested information call 1-206-634-0468 ext. just knock on the door be forwarded to Mr. Charles Rice at See Sunshine Wine this Thurs. Actually, IUFTA-Indiana University person call 708-295-3493. C6675 10:00 pm this saturday 219-237-0904. at Club 23 and support local bands. for the Adopted. 
,A ....... •' •• , ......., .. ~ .......~ .... ' ••• lh •• ·~"" •••••••••• ., ' •., 't ... ' ,.. •••• ,, .. "' ~ •• •; ~ '* 'q ... 'I 'I 'I I 'It 11. '. " '\. 'It ' J. I I i,
~-----------------­

~· 
·,\, .... 

March 17, 1994 The Observer • NCAA BASKETBALL 
-

Hawaii, California looking for redemption 
ByBOBMIMS 
Associated Press 
OGDEN, Utah 

While Hawaii wants to avoid a quick exit from its improbable first NCAA playoff appearance since 1972, tournament-tested Syracuse plans to send the Rainbow Warriors packing for Waikiki. 
Hawaii (18-14) lost six of its first eight games this season, including a 100-47 opener against Portland, but last week upset regular-season Western Athletic Conference champion New Mexico, then beat Brigham Young to win the conference tournament's automatic NCAA berth. 
The last time the Rainbow Warriors made the 64-team cut, Richard Nixon was still president -Hawaii was elimi­nated in the first round. 
Coach Riley Wallace knows the fans back in Honolulu are expecting more when he faces 15th-ranked Syracuse (21-6) in Thursday's West subregional opener at Weber State Univer­sity. 
The Orangemen, seeded fourth, who were in nine straight NCAA tournaments until missing last year, are making their 21st appearance overall. In 1987, Syracuse got as far as the championship game, losing to Indiana. 
"There's a lot of excitement in Hawaii. I understand there's a tidal wave heading to Los An­geles because of all the rocking on the island," Wallace quipped. 
In other first-round games here Thursday, 12th seed Wis­consin-Green Bay (26-6) takes on 16th-ranked California (22­7). the West's fifth seed; 16th seed Navy (17-12) meets top seed Missouri (25-3), ranked No. 5 nationally, and No eighth seed Cinncinati (22-9) faces ninth seed Wisconsin (17 -10). 
Ironically, Wallace's hopes for beating the Orangemen rest on lifelong Syracuse fan Trevor Ruffin. A shooting guard from Buffalo, N.Y., averaging nearly 21 points, he is a self-described "serious, big fan" of the Or­angeman. 
"It's a honor to be playing a team like them," Ruffin said. "We know Syracuse will be a tough hill to climb, but we have confidence in ourselves." 
Ruffin, who hit six of 11 3­pointers in beating BYU 73-66 for the WAC crown on Satur­day, ended that tourney hitting 50 percent of his treys. Against Louisville, last December, he hit 10 of them while scoring 42 points in an 85-79 loss. 
''I've never given a green light to anyone in my life before. But he makes more bad shots than anyone I've ever seen," Wallace said. "He's the man. He's the real deal." 
There's little doubt in Syra­cuse coach Jim Boeheim's mind that stopping the junior guard will be critical. 
"We'll have to do something to counter Hawaii's 3-point shooting. That's our number one concern," he said. 
While Hawaii enters the sub­regional with a three-game winning streak, Syracuse will be trying to recover from an 81-80 overtime loss to Seton Hall in the Big East tournament quarterfinals last week. 
"We helped get another (Big East) team into the NCAA tour­nament. It's our spirit of coop­eration," Boeheim joked. 
Syracuse guard Lawrence Moten wasn't in the mood for such humor, however. 
"We are hungry this year, and we are ready," said the Orangemen's leading scorer, at 
21.1 points. "That's (Seton Hall) over with -we've just got to look ahead." 
California, making its eighth NCAA appearance, also looks for redemption when it plays Wisconsin-Green Bay. The Golden Bears, national champs in 1959 and runners-up the fol­lowing year, ended this season with a 94-82 loss at Washing­ton State. 
But Cal coach Todd Bozeman warns against dismissing the little-known Phoenix, which won NCAA entry by defeating Illinois-Chicago in the Mid­Continent Conference tourney's title game. 
ATTENTION ALL WING LOVERS! 
Come, join us for a BLAST at our newest location near Service Merchandise. 
IHIAIPIPYl  Come in and  
ST.  check out our  
PATRICK'S  UJIIDil»~iln~W®il»il(fj  
_._...__.,__]l»®CCfiiiDll~~  

Big-Screen TV • Darts • Video Games University Center 6502 N. Grape Rd. Phone 273-0088 
LAFAYETTE SouARE 
T 0 W N H 0~ E S 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are The Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet OurFriendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 


page 14 The Observer • NIT BASKETBALL March 17, 1994 
Yellow Jackets shocked by Siena 
By JOEL STASHENKO 
Associated Press 

ALBANY, N.Y. 
Spurned by the NCAA on Sunday, Georgia Tech was shocked in the NIT on Wednesday. 
The Yellow Jackets, who this season beat North Carolina twice, were over­whelmed down the stretch by Siena, losing 76-68 in the frrst round of the National Invitation Tournament. 
"There were a lot of com­ments by (Georgia Tech) coach (Bobby) Cremins," said Siena coach Mike Deane. "He was worried about getting his team ready because of the disap­pointment of the NCAAs. 
"He talked very little about his preparation for us or our basketball team. I thought that if we could keep them at that unemotional 'state that we would have a chance to stay close." 
Siena kept its composure when Tech went ahead 64-60 with 3:25 to play. Siena guard Doremus Bennerman, who fin­ished with 33 points, scored his team's next nine points and drew the fourth and fifth fouls on Tech guard Travis Best, removing Georgia Tech's floor leader with 2:16 left. 
Bennerman's 3-point shot from the top of the key with 56 seconds to play broke a 66-66 tie. 
"I knew it was tied," Ben­nerman said. "I just let it fly and "hoped for the best and it went in for me. We had to play twice as hard as they did. We knew they were disappointed and had to travel." 
Georgia Tech (16-13), play­ing without leading scorer and rebounder James Forrest due to an ankle injury, did not compete with the kind of intensity needed to beat a scrappy team like Siena, said Siena's Andy Thies. 
"I think their lack of prepa­ration hurt them. We still pre­pared for them," Thies said. "Who's Siena? They (Georgia Tech) play North Carolina twice a year. I think they thought, just show up on the floor and they beat us." 
Cremins said with Best out of the game his team was un­able to hold off Siena. 

"We did not make smart de­cisions with the ball," the coach said. 
Best had just 10 points and missed 11 of 14 shots in being outplayed by Bennerman, the Metro Atlantic Athletic Confer­ence's player of the year. 
Siena (22-7) will meet the winner of the Evansville-Tu­lane game in the second round of the tournament next Monday or Tuesday. Wednesday afternoon's game was played before a crowd of 12,808, mostly Siena fans, at Albany's Knickerbocker Arena, just a few miles from Siena's Loudonville campus. 
The game was played in the afternoon because of a boat show at the arena later this week. For a time, Siena wasn't even sure it could get the game in. 
"What was a mess turned out to be a great success," Deane said. 
Following Bennerman's late 3-pointer, his sixth of the game, Georgia Tech botched its best chance to tie. 


Tulane trumps Aces, takes easy first round NIT win 
By BOB LEWIS 
Associated Press 

EVANSVILLE, Ind. 
Kim Lewis scored a season­high 23 points and career point No. 1,001 Wednesday as Tu­lane defeated Evansville 76-63 in a first-round National Invita­tion Tournament game. 
And Tulane's bruising man­to-man half-court defense sti­fled the Purple Aces inside as Lewis went 4-for-7 from 3­point range, loosening Evansville's inside defense. 
The loss ends Evansville's season at 21-11 while Tulane (18-10) advanced to a second­round game against Siena. 
Lewis struck early, scoring seven points of the Green Wave's first nine points of the game. Carlin Hartman had nine of his 16 points for Tulane mid­way through the first half. 
Brent Kell led Evansville with 18 points and Andy Elkins and Reed Jackson added 12 each. 
Both teams entered the game disappointed at seasons that failed to earn them NCAA Tournament bids for the first time since 1991. 
Evansville, unable to pene­trate the Green Wave zone, missed four shots -three from 3-point range -and turned the ball over two times in seven possessions in the first 5:51. 
But the Aces found their way inside and tied the game at 20­20 with 6:55 left in the half as Brent Kell supplied 10 points in a 16-4 run. 
The Green Wave's top scorer this season, LaVeldro Simmons, went 0-4 in the first 13 minutes but added a 3-pointer and two field goals to give Tulane a 35­27 halftime lead. 
Tulane extended its margin to 50-33 six minutes into the sec­ond half and held the Aces scoreless for four minutes. Elkins, who led Evansville with a 21.8 point per-game average, capped a 7-0 run and tightened the score to 50-40 before foul­ing out seconds later with 
10:25 to play. 

Cats rally to down DePaul 
ByRICKGANO 

Associated Press 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
Cedric Neloms and Patrick Baldwin sparked a second-half comeback, and Northwestern -making it first postseason appearance in 11 years -beat DePaul 69-68 Wednesday night in the first round of the NIT. 
The Wildcats (15-13) rallied from a 12-point halftime deficit, finally taking the lead with 4:17 to go when Kip Kirk­patrick tipped in a missed free throw. 
Neloms scored 10 of his 24 points in the second half, while Baldwin had 12 of his 21 in the second, including a slam dunk with 1:51 to go that gave the Wildcats a three-point lead. 
DePaul (16-12) got 18 points from Tom Kleinschmidt, who had only five in the second half. 
In the second round, North­western plays Xavier. which beat Miami of Ohio. 
Kirkpatrick's tip after a missed free throw -North­western's third offensive re­bound in less than a minute after a miss from the line ­put the Wildcats ahead 64-63. 
Kleinschmidt tried to work for a go-ahead basket but lost the ball and Baldwin took a pass for the slam that put Northwestern ahead 66-63 with 1:51 to go. Neloms hit one of two free throws for a four­point lead before Kris Hill of DePaul made a layup with 23 seconds to go, cutting it to two. 
Kirkpatrick made one of two free throws with 14 seconds to go, putting Northwestern in front 68-65 before DePaul's Brandon Cole missed a chance to tie when his 3-pointer hit the rim with nine seconds left. 
Baldwin made one free throw for a four-point lead before Kleinschmidt banked in a menaingless shot at the buzzer. 
Northwestern, down 12 at the half, scored the first 10 points of the second behind 3-pointers from Kirkpatrick and Todd Leslie. 
0 
D 

Wednesday, March 23, 1994 7 p.m. Library Auditorium 
Comments from fellow Notre Dame students who have seen David: 
·Absolutely an excellent presentation -­"Inspirational and educational.· one of the best I've ever seen.· "Excellent, bring him back.· 
"I laughed, I cried, I'd see it again and again. It was better than CATS! "Quite a coup to get someone Seriously --Awesome" this good to speak.· 
"A presenter and presentation I will "David was fabulous and entertaining remember forever.· with a clear and important message.· 
Sponsored by The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education and Students Against Driving Drunk 
._ • • • • * " • • • "' •---• a. L • &. IlL •-•-•-._ •· l •-• &. "'&. L L ~ ~ .., .. l
I.._ Lt. e..~~~'­

.. 
March 17, 1994 The Observer • PRO FOOTBALL page 15 
Bears make expected move, release Harbaugh 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. 
The Chicago Bears, who last month signed quarterback Erik Kramer from Detroit, on Wednesday released three-year starter Jim Harbaugh. 
The move, which wasn't un­expected, makes Harbaugh an unrestricted free agent, allow­ing him to negotiate with any team without compensation to the Bears. 
"He won a lot of big games for the Bears, and I wish him nothing but the best in the fu­ture," said Bears president Michael McCaskey. 
Harbaugh's release comes a year after he signed a four­year, $13 million contract and opens up considerable room under the $33.8 million salary cap for the Bears, who already have signed three free agents -Kramer, offensive tackle Andy Heck and running back Merril Hoge. 
Harbaugh, Chicago's top draft pick in 1987, was the quarterback of the NFL's worst offense last season, when the Bears finished 7-9. He com­pleted 200 of 325 passes for 2,002 yards and seven touch­downs. He was intercepted 11 times. 
During his first year as a starter in 1990, he guided the club to a 10-3 mark before be­ing disabled with a shoulder separation. 
During his career with the Bears, Harbaugh attempted 1,759 passes and completed ·1,023 for a 58.2 percent suc­cess rate. 
nrr®®IP~
~ 
SHOOT OUT 
y 
MONDAY, MARCH 21, 7:00PM JACCARENA 
(Q)~JEQ(Q)WQ(Q)W!E C(Q)W'll'!E§'ll' 
• 
GAMES TO 15 PTS. 


• 
SINGLE ELIMINATION 


'll'IHIIRIEIE rorrm ~ IFIRIEIE 'll'IHIIR(Q)W ({;(Q)W'Ir!E§'Ir 
• 
HEAD TO HEAD COMPETITION 

• 
45 SECOND SHOOTING PERIOD 

• 
DOUBLE ELIMINATION 


REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS DEADLINE: FRIDAY, MARCH 18 
Rz-c-~ 
Raiders match Denver, sign Brown 

:,~¢ 
~ Speaks for Itself ~ CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
9 Month -10 Month -12 Month Leases FURNISHED APARTMENTS, ALL UTILITIES COVERED, CENTRAL AIR 
Wide open spaces, well appointed apartments. Indoor Pool & jacuzzi. Sports activity area. Weight machine, 24 Hour Laundry. 
STUDENT ACCOMODATION AND CARE AT AFFORDABLE PRICES. WE TAKE SECURI1Y AND SAFE1Y SERIOUSLY. 
Visit Our Office and Meet Our Staff Call Dorene NOW 
272--1441 
By JOHN NADEL 
Associated Press 

EL SEGUNDO, Calif. 
Pro Bowl wide receiver Tim Brown will remain with the Los Angeles Raiders, the National Football League team an­nounced Wednesday. 
The Raiders are matching the four-year, $11 million offer sheet that Brown, a restricted free agent, signed with the Denver Broncos last Friday. 
The Raiders announced their decision two days before their deadline to match the offer or lose Brown, 27, who won the 1987 Reisman Trophy as col­lege football's top player after his senior year at Notre Dame. 
"This was not a tough deci­sion," said Steve Ortmayer, the Raiders' director of football op­erations. "The problem for a club is when you have a deci­sion like this, and you have out­standing young players at the same position on your team. You have to look to see who else is out there that can make a difference. 
"While there's some out­standing value out there in the unrestricted free agent market, there was no one we felt who had the value of a Tim Brown for this team." 
Brown caught 80 passes, a franchise record for the wide receiver, gained an AFC-lead­ing 1,180 yards receiving and scored seven touchdowns in 1993. He also averaged 11.6 yards in punt returns, including one return for a touchdown. 
Brown said when he signed the Broncos' offer sheet that he wanted to play there. As part of the contract, there is a no-trade clause that Brown and the Broncos both believed would Raiders to match. Ortmayer would not say who 


"We have a hard (salary) those players might be. cap system in this age," Ort­"The Raiders, more than any­mayer said. "Whether we one, believe strongly in continu­signed Tim Brown or not, there ity, history and tradition. And are certain players on our team we intend to keep this (release who will have to take drastic of high-priced players) to the salary cuts or be released." minimum as much as possible," 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
• RecSports wII be offer-Sign up in advance at lng a soccer cli':"j~ ()n Wed. RecSports. March l<J, f+ol!l7:~ pm in th~ 
JACC Fi , The clinit • Bookstore Basketball 

by Notre XXIII : Main signups ($7) Mar 
rtea.IiJ,s. <16 and 18. Late signups ($10) 
d~[f~:~]I{it .:ti~//e~~-20. See ads for 
........................., ...,.,·.::::::::=:r····· 

When the Great American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for col"lcge graduates interested in exploring the possibility or a lifetime of service as a lloly Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is av<"1ilahlc. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219> 63 t-oJX5 

The Observer • BASEBALL March 17,1994 
Lisanti the Irish on-field leader 

By JENNY MARTEN 
Senior SportS Writer 
Although the Notre Dame pitching staff is young and mostly inexperienced, they do have an advantage over their counterparts at other schools. 
The Irish pitchers have Bob Lisanti. 
As a third-year veteran be­hind the plate, Lisanti gives his pitchers a distinct edge with his experience and leadership. 
Since his freshman year, the junior has caught well over 100 games in his collegiate career and is considered by Pat Mur­phy to be one of the top catch­ers in the country. 
"Bobby can flat out catch and I think he's the best defensive catcher in the country," said Murphy. 
Defense is one of the aspects of his game which Lisanti has worked hard to improve. At ev­ery practice, he repeatedly digs throws out of the dirt. 
With only four errors last year and none so far this year, the work appears to have paid off, but Lisanti refuses to let up. 
Lisanti realizes how invalu­
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Sexuality and Keeping the Faith 
We talked about faith. And, believe it or not, we talked about sex. 
We began to talk about childhood memories. My friend told me about how it was a shocking revelation to find out that his parents actually had sex. It was difficult"for him to imagine that the people who were such staunch Catholics, and people who were passing-on the Faith to him, had engaged in, and probably continued to engage in, sexual activity .... together! What did this mean? 
In my family, we talked about faith and Church, but sex was something that was rarely, if ever, talked about directly. It was acceptable to talk about Church, but the message seemed to be that it was usually unacceptable to talk about sex. When I was a little kid, this was not such a big deal. As I became older, sex is something that I began to think about more and more and something that I discussed honestly very little. 
It is unfortunate that, in some ways, the Faith has been separated from life and that life, in some ways, has been separated from the Faith. 
It is also unfortunate that we rarely discuss our sexuality and the needs, desires, and feelings which are part of being human. 
Sexuality can remain an underdeveloped and overly emphasized part of our lives. As Fr. Steve Newton, C.S.C. notes in his article, "Sex and the Single Notre Dame Christian" (which is available in the Campus Ministry offices), when it comes to sex, we think of very little more, and little is integrated less. When our own personal pleasure is more important than anything or anyone else, our Faith tells us that we are not at our best. In fact, we are being less 
than human because, in this view, human sexuality is depersonalized and seems to have the same worth as a piece of candy. 
Faith too, if separated from life experience, our needs, desires, and feelings, 
will remain underdeveloped. It will become little more than an escape from 
truth instead of being a way to it. There is something sinful about dismissing 
experiences, needs, desires and feelings. 
It's not that easy to talk about sex in a direct, honest and respectful manner. 
of course, there are many reasons why we would not talk about our sexuality the same way we would talk about the weather. Our sexlJality and who we are as sexual people is much more personal than that. We might also be afraid that the simple response to our desires and feelings would be "Don't!" Especially at 
Notre Dame, maybe students assume that if they talk about their own 
sexuality honestly with people they would otherwise trust, that these people 
would be obligated to force them into the view that if you are not married, able his error-free defense and his leadership is for the pitch­ing staff, but still remains un­satisfied. 
''I'm doing well, but I have to be careful not to rest on my laurels. I have to work on it all the time," said the catcher about his defense. 
Chosen to captain this year's squad, the junior is comfortable with the added responsibility. 
"Being captain is good, but it is an easy job because we have a lot of senior leadership and juniors who have played in big games," said Lisanti. 
But for the pitchers, Lisanti is their leader. He is the one who calls their pitches. 
Over spring break, he called every pitch he caught in the six games. 
Controlling this aspect of the game enabled Lisanti to stay more. If one was in a groove, he could keep them firing pitch­es at the hitters and if one was struggling he could work with them through the kinks. 
In previous years, the head 
coach made all the calls, but 
Lisanti tried to think along with him and learned his strategy. After two full seasons behind the plate, Lisanti has won the confidence of Murphy. 
"I love calling the pitches. It keeps me in the game more," said Lisanti. "I like to call the pitches because I can see things behind the plate no one else can, like hitters' adjustments." 
After last week, Murphy was pleased with Lisanti's ability to call the pitches and it looks like the trend might continue. 
Behind the plate, Lisanti has been able to gauge the progress of the young pitchers and he thinks they are almost ready. 
"They did exactly what he (Murphy) wanted them to do. They pitched well in the first week. They came in and weren't afraid. I'm confident in their ability," said Lisanti. 
One pitcher he does not have 
to worry about is senior Tom 
Price. Lisanti has only praise 
for the left-bander and his con­
trol. When he calls a location 
for a pitch for Price, Lisanti is 
always confident that the pitch­
er will hit it. 
And this makes his job a little 
easier. 

"Don't!" 
What we need to do, and our Faith calls for it, is to listen to each other more. 
Beginning this Sunday, March 20, there will be an opportunity to just listen or talk, if yo·u·wlsh, about the Catholic Faith and our sexuality. For three evenings in the LaFortune Ballroom, Campus Ministry is sponsoring presentations and discussions on sexuality at Notre Dame and keeping the faith. Below, you will find a brief description of the events. 
Hopefully, this "Keeping the Faith" series will provide an opportunity to keep connected or re-connect our experience and our Faith. The message of Jesus is that they are not to be separated. 
Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat.  March 19  5:00p.m.  
Sun. March 20  10:00 a.m.  
11:45 a.m.  

Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P. Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1st Reading 2nd Reading Gospel 


.. -..$~.I .II ..... -~~~,,. .... , ..... ................... -.. ----• ---•• 

March 17, 1994 The Observer • BASEBALL page 17 
Irish baseball team to play at College Baseball Classic 
The University of Notre Dame ~h~;MUSIQVE CoQ.cert II performed by the Schola Musicorum Alexander Blachly, Calvin Bower, Lewis Coleman, Daniel Stowe with members of The Notre Dame Chorale GREGORIAN CHANT& MEDIEVALMOTETS Thursday, March 17, 1994 10:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Admission free; open to the public  
Flower Delivery 7 Days Pct!i)' (I ~~th Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square (219)277.. 129151408 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 ' Phone Answered 24 hrs.  
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports Let's Go Irish! NOTRE DAME LACROSSE Notre Dame vs. University of New Hampshire Saturday, 3/19 --2:00pm FREE ADMISSION Loftus Center or Carter Field NOTRE DAME WOMEN•s TENNIS Notre Dame vs. Western Michigan Sunday, 3/20 --1:00pm Eck Tennis Pavilion  

By JENNY MARTEN 
Senior Sports Writer 
Two years ago, the Notre Dame baseball team claimed the College Baseball Classic title with victories over Washington, 
Yale and Washington State. But two years ago, the Irish pitching staff included Chris Micha­lak, David 


Sinnes, Pat Tom Price Leahy and AI 
Walania, who accounted for 36 of the team's 48 wins that year. As the 24th-ranked Irish base­
ball team heads to the Kingdome for the 1994 College Baseball Classic this weekend, the pitching staff remains one 
of the questions for the team. 
If the team gets strong per­formances from each member of the staff, Notre Dame should 
defeat Brigham Young, 16th­ranked Washington and 21st­ranked Tennessee and win its fourth Classic title. 
Over spring break, ten differ-
Enjoy St. Patty's Day with the music of 
~1ill1ID~Jh.ilml~ \Wlilml~ 
I ' 
I , at 
CLUB 23 
Thursday 3/17 

THE 
ent Irish pitchers appeared on the mound for the Irish, five of them freshmen. With the ex­ception of Tom Price, no other pitcher went more than five innings. 
"It's the way we have to do it," said Murphy. "We have to get a team effort on the mound. We don't have the guys with the stuff to flat out overpower peo­ple." 
One pitcher who presents a variety of looks all by himself is Price, who remains the back­bone of the mound crew. The senior left-hander is most effec­tive when all of his pitches are working for him. 
Price has become the most consistent Irish pitcher, posting a 27-6 career record at Notre Dame. He went 1-1 last week with a complete game win over Tulane and a tough loss against Alabama. 
Price, along with catcher Bob Lisanti, will provide leadership for the less experienced and younger members of the pitch­ing staff. While Lisanti's influ­ence will come from behind the plate, Price will try to lead the team with his example on the mound. 
"It's more of me teaching by example. {With me) being out there, a lot of guys can learn from me on the mound," he explained. 
But the senior does not see his role on the team this year as a bigger one because of what he saw from the other pitchers last week. 
"Everyone else is more than capable as they proved this week," said Price. 
Another projected starter for the Irish is junior Craig Allen. The right-hander racked up a 1-1 record over break with nine innings of solid work. 
The rest of the starting rota­tion behind Price and Allen is a bit fuzzy. Freshmen Darin Schmalz and Larry Mohs both got the nod as starters against Alabama and Tulane respec­tively. Schmalz posted a 4-2 record with a 2.16 earned run average as a senior. 
Junior Marty DeGraff missed most of last year due to an in­jury, but he will be expected to contribute this year. 
INTERVIEW 
Whether ' 
youre shopping for the all-important business suit or your post-college wardrobe, there's no better time than right now. 
Between now and March 31, simply 
lteAwooA&)toss 
University Park Mall 
219-272-0470 
Not valid in combination with any other offer. 
SUIT Purchase any Redwood &Ross suit and recieve a 20°/o discount 
SR 
present a valid student 
I.D. at any Redwood & Ross store and receive a 20% discount on the suit ofyour choice. 
Visit one of our stores today and take advantage of this very special offer. 
Sophomore A.J. Jones also notched a win last week in two appearances on the mound. The right-handed submarine pitcher could be used as a starter or in middle relief, but either way his goal is the same. 
"I just want to go in and just throw strikes. Last week, I felt I did," said Jones. 
Junior Tim Kraus made four relief appearances over break. Kraus is comfortable with his role as the closer. 
"My job as a reliever is to come in and be aggressive and throw strikes late in the game," explained Kraus. "The other team is on the defensive and I have the advantage. I can chal­lenge guys and make them hit it." 
Junior Rich Sauget made brief appearances in two games last week and looks to be a pitcher who can step in for a batter or two in order to get out of a jam. In the 6-2 loss to Tulane, Sauget came in to face one bat­ter and struck him out to end the inning. 
Besides Schmalz and Mohs, Paul Pryblo and Gregg Henebry represented the freshmen class in games last week. Pryblo struggled a bit with his control, but the left-bander has a break­ing ball of major league caliber and could spell trouble for opposing hitters with a little more experience. Henebry pitched in three games and reg­istered four strikeouts in just under six innings of work on the mound. 
Right now, most of the Notre Dame pitching staff has untest­ed potential. If the pitching staff can make the most out of its platoon-style pitching with strong individual performances, the Irish should be successful this weekend. 
Today, the 21st-ranked Ten­nessee Volunteers {14-5) will be waiting for the Irish on Sat­urday with eight starters hitting over .300. Leading the way is outfielder Bubba Trammell with a .405 average and five roundtrippers. The Volunteers bring a ten-game win streak into the College Baseball Clas­sic. 
On Friday, the Irish face the 16th-ranked Washington Huskies {13-1) who come into the game with a stellar pitching staff of their own. The staff has a 2.85 earned run average and has held opposing batters to a meager .211 batting average. 
The Irish face Brigham Young {10-7) on Saturday which brings 10 batters hitting over .300 into the game including slugger Ryan Hall, who is hit­ting .553 with nine home runs. 
To round off the weekend, the Irish are playing an exhibition game against a Japanese trav­eling team on Sunday. 

The Observer • SPORTS 
Men's tennis on road Crying 
By PHIL LANGER Spons Writer 
This weekend, the fourteenth­ranked Notre Dame men's ten­nis team will attempt to defend the title they shocked the world by winning last year: the Blue­Gray National Classic held in Montgomery, Alabama. 
This elite tournament will feature ten of the top fifteen teams in the nation including No. 3 Mississippi State. 
The Irish will face Drake in the first round of the tourna­ment. Drake has successfully beaten two of the teams Notre Dame had destroyed during spring break in Hawaii. Thus they will serve as a real test for a Irish squad who seemingly found the winning line-up in the sun of Hawaii. 
"We know we'll have our hands full," noted Bayliss, "I hope the time change between Hawaii and Alabama won't af­fect how solid the team is play­ing lately." 
Last year, the Irish signaled their return to the nation's elite with four earth-shattering wins over top-25 teams, capturing the tournament with a 8-1 de­struction of No. 18 Alabama. 
Before that now-hallowed 
March 17, 1994 
They couldn't escape the pre­sent. There were good times to remember and better days to anticipate, but that couldn't soothe the sting of the moment. 
"You've got to give Minnesota credit, their players stepped up and made some big shots," Morgan said. 
"We had to keep coming back and we couldn't do that the whole game." 
Even diplomacy couldn't hide the disappointment. Their eyes said more than their words ever could. 

weekend in Notre Dame sports history, the Irish had lost eight out of their 11 matches with top-25 foes, including six losses against teams that have been ranked in the top-10. 
Yet, they stepped up during one of the nation's premier tournaments that weekend, beating No. 19 New Mexico, up­setting No. 7 Mississippi, and defeating No. 17 Florida, before humbling Alabama for the cov­eted championship. 
The stars of that glorious weekend were 1993 graduates 
continued from page 20 
leads. 

With 518 total points in her rookie season, she is on a pace to shatter the school's career scoring mark of 1 ,590. Every­thing that happens to the Irish over the next three seasons will likely pass through Morgan's hands. 
But her future seemed as far away as Leary's past. 
Chuck Coleman, Mark Schmidt, and Ron Rosas at the two, three, and four positions. Coleman and Schmidt won all four times they stepped on the court, while Rosas went 3-1. 
Who will be this year's stars? Will it be fifth-year senior team captain and on/off court emo­tional leader Andy Zurcher or freshman phenom Ryan Simme? 
An overall solid team perfor­mance may be the key for a vic­tory this weekend, however. 
If one thing is certain thus far in 1994, the Notre Dame men's tennis squad doesn't lack depth; the shinning star of the Irish is not a team member, but simply the team. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Applicants should submit a one page personal statement and resume to Beth Regan by Wednesday March 23, 5:00pm. 
For additional information contact Beth at 631-4540. 
Michigan spikes Irish 
I I
\ 
I I 
\ 
I
By G.R. NELSON 
I
\ 
I I
Spons Writer 
\ 
I 

....
\ I 
,
.....

The Notre Dame men's vol­
... \ .... ,
leyball team was defeated con­
... /
,

... /
vincingly by the University of 
Michigan last night at the 
, , / 
/

Thunderpit, 15-5, 15-13, 15­
,
11. Notre Dame (8-2) played per­
/ _... ­
_... 

haps its poorest game of the season, but refused to blame 
,,

the long layoff as the cause. 
"I do not want to use the break as an excuse," said coach Jennifer Slosar. "We were lethargic, unable to get the ball to the right man, and our transition game was off." 
' 

Nevertheless, Slosar was 
' 

quick to credit the Wolverines. 
--~ 
"Michigan is a much im­
' 

proved team," added Slosar. 
' 

"They had revenge on their 
' ' 

minds." Last year, the Irish demolished Michigan in only 30 minutes. 
... 
\

There were few bright spots 
I

for Notre Dame. Captain Brian 
I \ 

Ceponis was held to five kills 
I 

and outside hitter Matt Strottman could add only six. 
" 

,

"We just did not execute on 
,
offense," commented Ceponis. 
The only positive from this game was the performance of outside hitter Miguel Ascencio, 
DIAll-!lt:t:lii·T!llS11NSIIAD
..l~... -------------------------------------------.
who accumulated a match high 
~ . _...-_,.. . ''.''···· "" ..;_;_-;~
14 kills. 

\·~-.·~I • 
,:~' ·:. .....
"I was happy to get in and 
SAVIIHI Peen,eYOU CAll 
help the team," said Ascencio. 
.. ' 
"I just want to be ready when 
_yP_t044%
the team needs me to step up and perform." The team, while disappointed with its loss, has already for­
liE IT EVElY TIME Yll MAKE ALDNC DIITANCE COLLECT CALL.
gotten about it and is now look­ing forward to playing on the road this weekend. 

.-----~---------------·----------~----------------------~------------------------------------------------------------·-----­
March 17, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

SPELUNKER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
MOI'II 'SI>-~S 11\E 
RO!>-DS ARE. PRETI'{ 
CL£/l,R, "":f) SC.\.\OOL WIU.. PR~Jg"'BL'{ G~N. 1>-GMN 
TO~IJRROW . 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

... OR I 'NISI-\ l'O 001'\1: IT

NON I WIS\1 l'O OONE Mi 
Ml>-nl 1\0MEWORK INSTEI>-D 
BEFORt. 1>\N\'\ER ... OR 1\ffiR Of Plt>..'{\NG C'tJ\SIDE f.\ll 
D\1'\N~ ... OR \N'S'\8\D ClF 
WI>-TC\-1\NG T'J ... OR g£RlR£ BED. 13\.)T 1'\<lW II'S 100 LA\t: 
DI\'C 
\ 
-~~L 
-

JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WA ITERSON 
f>.. Dl\'\ 0-\ol R£1\lli 'SUP B'l W\\£N '\()\)'~ IJR\Bt.RI>-TI:L'\ 
A'I/OID\NG W\-\1\T 'iOlJ'R£ S\JP\'<JS£1> Th 00 . 
"I'm sorry, Sidney, but I can no longer help you .... These are not my people." 
OF INTEREST 

DAVE KELLEIT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 "Waterlilies" artist
1 "The Nazarene" 
29---Z

writer 5 "Elephant Boy" 30 Partying with ..•boy Eddie Cantor? 9 --night 34 Rene or Renee 12 Cheer noisily 35 Toymaker 14 "Am_ Love?" 36 Noisy bird (1952 song) 43 Scale notes 
15 1990 Best 44 Lambaste Supporting 45 Composition Actress 48 Road from 
17 Juarez river Dawson Creek 18 Newswoman 51 Kind of hill or 
Compton lion 19 Twiggy willows 52 Feast 21 Singer James 53 Canned-tomato 
23 Nurse a drink style 2& Conductor 55 Truckers' Dorati watchdog 26 Poverty 57 Any ship 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Thursday, March 17 . ~d s-t
W est~--S___ ·1. :' ~e ·--~ 
7:30 & lOpm in the 
Montgomery Theatre Admission $1 
sa Nothing to shout about 62 "Xanadu" rock group 63 Noisy festivity 64 Manuel's intra 
65 One of a trio in Scandinavian myth 
66 Pursue 
DOWN 
1"... ­Christmas" 2--up(film genre) 3 Bill's partner 4 "May I?" step 5 Hires 6 Act of contrition 7 Biblical month 8 Hairstyle that needs hairpins 9 Coordinate 10 Listen in on 
31 Keystone officer 40 Father 50 Mint11 Unappreciative 
one 32Rock--41 Become 54 How the answer 
popular

Oukebox brand) to this goes 13 Airline to 42 Occurrence
Karachi 33Land-56 Ceiling
46 Loose a bra 
15 Songbird (night locale) 59 Greek letter 
47 Filter

16 Scouting org. 36 Package 60 Typewriting
49-Parker,20 Kind of gin 37 Hair products 1904 candidate abbr. 22Town in a maker Curtis for President 61 Start of a bray 
W.W.II novel and others 24 Notre Dame 38Warring 
Get answers to any three clues
bench Seminole chief 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
39 Brady bill 

28 Heat unit opposer 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Friday & Saturday March 18 & 19 
S'I1JDDrl' UNION IIOAD 

crazy stuff and more! 

lver Get Somebody Totol~ Wosted! 
TAKE THE KEYS CAll ACAB. TAKE ASTANO.. 
fRifNOS DON'T lH fRifNOS DRIVf DRUNK 
---------------------------------------------------------~ 
SPORTS 
Thursday, March 17,1994 

..---­
The Observer/ Kyle Kusek 

Notre Dame forward Tootie Jones runs in to Minnesota's Carol Ann Shudlick on her way to the basket last night. Shudlick 
scored 19 points to lead the Golden Gophers to a 81-76 victory over the Irish. 
J 0 C K 
Irish eyes
• 
are crytng 
She tried in vain to blink away the tears. 
With eyes bleary and sunken, Notre Dame senior point guard Kara Leary reflected on a sea­

son that came to a 
.___J_as_o_n_K_e_ll_y_·--" 
sudden end Wednesday with an'-------__j 81-76 first-round NCAA Tournament 
loss to Minnesota. 

"This season put Notre Dame on the right track toward where we want to be. I'm just glad I could be a part of it," she said, choking on her words. 
"Even though I didn't go out on a good note, at least I can say I always gave 100 percent." 
Leary is the spark plug of a senior class that built the foundation for this 
S T R I P, 
season's success. 

A walk-on who earned a starting spot as a sophomore, she symbolizes the determination of the group . Together they returned Notre Dame women's basketball to respectability. 
A 7 4-45 record, three Midwestern Collegiate Conference championships and Notre Dame's first two NCAA Tournament berths won't soon be for­gotten. 
But those good times seemed distant in the wake of their final defeat. 
"I feel bad for the seniors because they wanted it so bad," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "We had a great season and I don't think this game should take away from what we accomplished." 
To McGraw's right sat freshman for­ward Beth Morgan, the foundation for the future. 
Her eyes, like Leary's, were stained with sadness. 
Morgan, whose 26 points led all scor­ers, kept Notre Dame close on several occasions after the Gophers opened big 
see CRYING I page 18 
0 

uc 


Women's basketball falls in NCAA tournament opener 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame point guard Kara Leary sat on the court, a disbelieving look on her face. The scrappy senior floor leader stared up at the referee who had just tagged her with her fourth personal foul, wondering how in the world she was going to bring her team back from a 79-73 deficit with just 41 sec­onds to play. 
Leary had had a rough night, notching as many turnovers as she had points. Ten points and eight assists often become overshadowed by 10 turnovers. 
It's been said that Leary is the player who best represents the Notre Dame women's basketball team as a whole, and tonight was no exception. The team, like Leary, seemed to make as many mistakes as they did great plays, resulting in a hard to swal­low 81-76 loss to Minnesota in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. 
There was the all too frequent sight of Minnesota forward Crystal Flint gliding to an uncontested layup. There was the painfully unlucky missed shot 
see LOSS I page 12 
The Observer/ Kyle Kusek 

Though Irish guard Kara Leary was not short on effort, it could not lift Notre Dame to a · tournament victory. 





