
.-------------------­
. ' 
. I'. I' I I I,' I,, I' I,' t I I I 
o 1, 0 0 1 0 I, 0 0 I I 0 I I o''' 0
0 


1 • t 1 1 > o t t 1 I I I I I I I 0 I I I j I 
• \ ' \ \ ' io I 1 \ t. ' 'I I I I I I ' • ~ I t 1 1 > I I I I , I o I I .
I 0 t \ 1 I I I I I o I I I 1 \ r o' I I I I I I I 1 1, 1 1 1 f' I o I I I< I o /I I I I • I I j I\ I I I
: o ~ ~ 1 ~ t , 1 • I 1 1 ' I I ' t I I • I I I I ' I 
• • ' ~ • 0 • t • ' • 0 • ' • • • I o o 0 J o o • I o I o I • I ' • • 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, October 7, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
These are the times to remember 
Have you ever been in a-------­dorm room that did not 
have some type of sign in it? By sign, I mean one that was probably stolen or, to put it in a less severe manner, removed from someone else's property without permis­sion. 


And when you inquire  Patti Carson  
about the sign, its owner  Saint Mary's  
proudly tells you the  Accent Editor  
story of how he or she  

came to acquire it. It's not so much the sign itself that's interesting, but it's the story behind the sign, or hat, or ashtray, or whatev­er curious object it may be. 
There are stories behind almost everything in our rooms. And if you can tell stories upon stories, then you've probably made memories upon memories. This is the time to make memories, or at least that 's what my mom says. "You'll blink your eyes and all of this will be yesterday." 
Because one day, we won't all be together anymore. We'll all be scattered over the world, dressed in a variety of fashions for our careers-probably drinking coffee and acting professionally-and we'll likely be rushing off to our 8 a.m. meetings, with briefcase or notepad in hand. 
So we might as well take advantage of these moments. Now is the time to eat Lucky Charms and wash them down with soda. Now is the time to wear those Grateful Dead tye­dyed T -shirts with shower shoes. Now is the time to stay up late talking and laughing until we cry. 
And now is the time to get it all on film or videotape or paper. Now is the time to tran­scribe these moments in your mind because recording happiness makes it last longer. 
Don't get me wrong. We are here, first and foremost, to receive an outstanding education and do all those "collegiate things" we are supposed to do. But in the process of receiv­ing that excellent education, we start to learn about life. We learn about other people and ourselves. 
We'll make lots of memories, but no one said they'd all be pleasant ones. We'll have regrets, too. It's true that we'll probably be sorry for some of the things that we did or did not do or say. Hopefully, we've learned from our mistakes and grievances. 
In one of his books, the writer Leo Buscaglia talks about a man who has just been informed that he has only weeks to live. The man said, "If I had my life to live over again, I would relax more ... I'd be sillier, I'd take more chances, I'd eat more ice cream and fewer beans ... I'd have more actual troubles and fewer imaginary ones." 
A very special friend recently announced that she was leaving Saint Mary's for a while. She needs time to sort through some things. But we're hoping she'll be back again next semester so that we can make even more memories. To say life will not be the same without her may sound cheesy, but it is true. She's very special. 
All of our friends are dear to us, so we shouldn't squander the time we have with them. Because we'll never know when God might need them somewhere else. 
So this weekend, remember why your friends are so great and make some memo-
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production 
Dave Tyler Susan Marx Edward Imbus Belle Bautista Sports Accent RianAkey Tom Roland Viewpoint Graphics 
Suzy Fry Tony Alfidi Lab Tech Robert Bollman MikeShaf 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORlD AT AGLANCE 
Poverty in America Tops 39 Million, The Most Since 1961 

WASHINGTON 

The number of Americans living in poverty climbed past 39 million last year, the most since 1961 and an unwelcome surprise in the second year after the end of a recession. 
Income growth seems to be concen­trated among better-off Americans, Daniel Weinberg of the Census Bureau said Thursday. "The long-term trend in the U.S. has been toward increasing income inequality," he said. 
The Census Bureau's annual poverty report said 39.3 million people fell below the poverty level in 1993, the most since 39.6 million in 1961, which was nearly 22 percent of the popula­tion at that time. 
Poverty in 1993 was defined as an 
income of $14,7 63 for a family of four. o...,_-,-.....,..-,---r---r---r----r---r--r-r' 
significant drop in income last year, a The growing number of poor pushed 1983 '85 '87 '89 '91 '93 pattern similar to that of the 1980s, 
the poverty rate to 15.1 percent of all 
when economic progress was not 
Americans, a share that officials Source: Census Bureau termed "not statistically different" from 1992, when 38.0 million, or 14.8 percent, were poor. 
However, the 1992 poverty rate has previously been listed as 14.5 percent. The adjustment to 14.8 percent was to compensate for people previously undercounted and some problems in collecting the information. 
Pope Disturbed by Health Problems 
ROME 
Pope John Paul II is deeply troubled by his health and his failure to recover quickly from hip-replacement surgery, says Dr. Corrado Manni, an anesthesi­ologist and member of the team that operated on the pope after he was shot by a Turkish gunman in 1981 and when the 7 4-year-old pontiff under­went hip-replacement surgery April 29 

after breaking his right leg. "After the assassination attempt in 1981, the pope recovered fully," the doctor said in a telephone interview Wednesday. "In 1994, this did not happen. And the pope has great mental anguish because he wants to do so much, but his body will not let him." The Vatican postponed John Paul's trip to the United States this month, saying he needed more time to recover. For months rumors have swirled that John Paul suffered from a serious illness, perhaps bone cancer or Parkinson's ·disease. The Vatican has denied the reports, insisting the only problem is his leg. 
Woolsey proposes changes for CIA 
WASHINGTON 
CIA Director R. James Woolsey outlined management 
changes for Congress on Thursday, saying they would 
make the spy agency more effective and efficient and less 
vulnerable to spies from within. Woolsey, in closed testi­
mony before the Senate Intelligence Committee, said 
some of the changes had been in the works before the 
arrest last winter of Aldrich Ames, the veteran CIA officer 
who admitted spying for Moscow. The public furor trig­
gered by the Ames case, however, makes it necessary to 
broaden the CIA reforms and put them into force sooner 
than planned, Woolsey said. Many in Congress have 
questioned whether Woolsey is moving quickly or effec­
tively enough to change the CIA in response to the Ames 
debacle. Sen. Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz., chairman of the 
Senate Intelligence Committee, said after Woolsey's 
appearance Thursday that he remained unconvinced by 
Woolsey's promises. ''I'm not satisfied they're really 
going to change the culture" at CIA, DeConcini said. 
"This recession ended in 1991. One could expect a higher poverty rate in 1992. This (1993 rate) is unusual," he said. 
David Payne of the Commerce Department's Office of Economic Conditions added, "This is a bit unusual in that the unemployment rate kept rising after the recession ended." He pointed out that the beginning and end of recessions are determined by the gross domestic product, not employment rates. 
"It appears that some long-term trends, such as declining wages, over­rode the positives, such as economic growth," Isaac Shapiro of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities said. 
Full-time workers experienced a 
AP/Carl Fox spread evenly through the population, explained Shapiro of the Washington public-issues group. 
Weinberg noted that the median income of U.S. house­holds in 1993 was $31,241, down 1 percent from 1992. Median income means that half were making more than that amount and half less. 
Sex study finds monogamy winning 
CHICAGO 
Most of America's singles aren't swinging these days ­not unless they're living together. And they're doing it­believe it or not -with their spouses. The hotbed of sex in America turns out to be the marriage bed. All this is according to a landmark study of the nation's sexual habits released on Thursday by researchers at the University of Chicago and the State University of New York at Stony Brook. Forty-one percent of married cou­ples surveyed reported having sex at least twice a week, while 56 percent of unmarried couples who live together reported having sex twice a week or more. Only 23 per­cent of single people not living with a partner reported being that active. Researchers found that vaginal inter­course was by far the most popular form of sexual con­tact among heterosexuals, while watching a partner undress and having oral sex were distant contenders. Most married people reported being true to their spouse. Seventy-five percent of married men and 85 percent of married women say they are faithful. The researchers found -as have recent French and British studies ­that homosexuality is much less common than generally presumed, Michael said, found in only 6% of men. 
Ball State sudents arrested in killing 
MUNCIE, Ind. 
Three females have been arrested in connection with the fatal shooting of a Ball StatltUniversity student, police said Thursday. Angela Myers and Melissa Hicks, 19, each were charged Wednesday with obstruction of jus­tice, intimidation and battery with bodily injury. A 17­year-old girl faces the same charges. Hicks and Myers are being held at the Delaware County Justice Center and the juvenile is being held at the Madison County Juvenile Detention Center. The three allegedly beat up a girl who was present when one of the men suspected in the slay­ing of Christopher Coyle was arrested. The body of Coyle, 19, of Pendleton, was found Sept. 25 in an alley not far from his off-campus house. Coyle had been shot in the head in what police said was an attempted robbery. Three suspects-Larry Newton Jr., 17; Scott Turner, 20; and Duane Tuner, 19 -have been charged with conspir­acy to commit robbery. A fourth person, Chad Turner, 18, has been charged with assisting a criminal. 

• INillANA WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 7. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Pressure 
H L m ESI !Til 0 -~ ~ i:lbu 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STDRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VWI Assoaatect PrBSS 
Atlanta 80 58 Dallas 72 62 New O~eans 85 68 Baltimore 75 44 Denver 60 37 New York 72 55 Boston 71 52 Los Angeles 90 64 Philadelphia 73 48 Chicago 63 58 Miami 87 76 Phoenix 90 63 Columbus 75 53 Minneapolis 56 45 St. Louis 65 61 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet C1994 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 
--~-------~....---.....-~....-, I ~,-r-;-r-..._.......--~r-~..,....,.~~-.--....,...,,,,..,,.,,.,,..,.,..,.,.,.,.,.,...,-, ...... ,..., ..... ,...,,,...,,,..,,..,.,..,.,..,,"I"I'..,..,."T"'''"7"o~.....-;.,:-o,....,--.................
-.-....... 
',T~~-,.~,,-;·,~ (I' I' II I ;--:-~~--;~-;:-----.-,-,-,-,-,,, ,I I 0 0 1 1
~ \ \ I I I I I \ \ I l ) I ! I I I 1 ! I I I t r I j 1 j l I I I I ' I ' 1 f 1 J 1 1 I I I I I 1 ' j 1 j I I I I 1 I 1 1 I I 1 I I 1 1 1 I f I I I 1 I I f I ' • •1 .; I 
0

I O I I O I I • O 0 I 0 ,j 1 1 1 I I I I I
0
0 
Friday, October 7, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page3 
Conversionist writers: 
Conference to honor scholar 
By MARSHALL ENOS the life and culture of the day. Guardini who grew up in

"A history of failure" 
News Writer Guardini' s writings and Germany during the Nazi era 
By JEREMY DIXON 
News Writer 
Was Shakespeare a closet Catholic? 
Did the American Revolution succeed from the actions of pi­ous Catholics? 
These were some of the ideas promulgated by converted Catholics from 1840 to 1940, according to Patrick Allitt, who delivered a lecture entitled "America, England, Italy: The Geography of Catholic Conversion: 1840-1940" yes­terday in the Hesburgh library. 
From the late 1800's until the early 1900's, over two hundred American and British writers and intellectuals converted to Catholicism, including John Newman, G.K. Chesterton. and Isaac Hecker. This "phenom­ena of conversion of writers and intellectuals" is fascinating, says Allitt, because after their conversion, they were in the minority among their peers and countrymen. They converted based on their readings and conviction rather than emotion. 
After their conversion, these writers and intellectuals at­tempted to change the views of their fellow writers. According to Allitt, they "wanted to Catholicize English literature." They also wanted to raise the intellectual quality of Catholic writings in English. 
Among the most interesting converts, an American priest named Isaac Hecker put forth a theory stating the superiority of the Anglo-Saxons over the Celts and Latinos. "According to Hecker, it was time for the Anglo-Saxons, with their supe­rior 'inward' intellect, to per­fect Catholicism," said Allitt. Hecker also "wanted to make England and America centers of the world Catholic faith." His views never gained support in America or Europe. 
Instead, in the late 1920's and early 1930's, the converted Catholic intellectuals turned to Benito Mussolini, the fascist dictator of Italy, who they believed was "capable of guid­ing the Church in a profitable direction," stated Allitt. They pointed to his 1929 treaty with the Vatican as proof that he was to lead Catholicism into a new era. In retrospect, they have been proven wrong. 
Allitt remarked that his re­search is the "history of a pro­tracted failure." The writers and thinkers could not per­suade a mass conversion of in­tellectuals to Catholicism, or make it a topic of intellectual conversation. "Converting their own nations and their own peo­ple seemed a pressing task, but by the twentieth century the disastrous Great War and the Great Depression had dented the Anglo-Saxons' assurance," he said. 
BENGALI CULTURAL NIGHT 
featuring the play SACRIFICE by R. Tagore (in English) 
Date: Saturday, Oct. 8, 1994 Time: 6:00p.m. Place: Hesburgh Library Auditorium Admission Free 
Note: Prasad will be distibuted the same day in the morning following the puja. For infonnation regarding place call Mrs. Harolyn Dutt at 273-0928. 
Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 

,.Airfares *Rail Passes 
*Car Rentals *Experience 

Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. Low airfares to Europe. Rail Passes issued in our office! No service fee! Timetables, prices, tickets available! Discounted car rentals! Available in all European Countries! Over 20 years experience working with Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students and faculty travelling to Europe. 
We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus ­219 271-4880 
A conference celebrating the life and writings of Romano Guardini will be held this week­end Oct. 7 and 8 at the Center for Continuing Education (CCE). Guardini, who died in 1968 at the age 83, was described as a center of Roman Catholic intel­lectualism. 
An Italian native who was raised and lived in Germany, Guardini experienced a spiritu­al conversion in 1905 and was ordained a Roman Catholic priest. He served as the first professor of Catholic theology at the University of Berlin, the most prestigious theological position in Germany. 
Guardini, who had committed himself to a theological career, wrote and published in an at­tempt to modernize Catholicism, according to Father Robert Krieg, an asso­ciate professor of theology. 
Krieg said that Guardini was aware that Catholicism had be­come exclusive and self-en­closed. Guardini's writings were an attempt to bring the Christian faith, and Catholicism in particular, into dialogue with works were so powerful that they influenced numerous other contemporary theologians and writers including Hannah Arendt, Hans Urs von Balthasar, Thomas Merton, Flannery O'Connor and Dorothy Day. Pope Paul VI so admired Guardini 's theology that he wished to make him a cardinal, but Guardini declined the honor. 
The conference, entitled "Romano Guardini: Proclaiming the Sacred in a Modern World," will include discussions of the German world in which Guardini lived, the theological themes of his writings, the social context of his works, and his contemporary significance. 
According to Krieg, the con­ferences main goals are to rec­ognize the indebtedness of American Catholicism to Guardini, to discuss contempo­rary issues of faith and moder­nity, and to discuss the realiza­tion that Vatican II was a cul­mination of events and had not happened overnight. 
The speakers will include: 
• Heinz Kuehn, Friday at 7:30 pm, a former student of and was a member of the resis­tance movement; 
• Arno Schilson, Saturday at 
9:15 am, professor of western religions at the University of Mainz, Germany; 
• 
Kathleen Hughes, Saturday at 11:00 am, professor and aca­demic dean at the Catholic Theological Union in Chicago; 

• 
Krieg, Saturday at 4:15pm, associate professor of theology at Notre Dame; 


• Albert Wimmer, Saturday at 
4:30 pm, associate professor of German and Russian languages and literature at Notre Dame; and 
• 
Regina Kuehn, Saturday also at 4:30 pm, who wrote her doctoral dissertation at the University of Berlin under Guardini's direction; and 

• 
Gertrude Nelson, Sat. 4:30 pm, an artist, writer and lec­turer whose parents were friends of Guardini. 


Krieg encouraged all to come and enjoy the discussions con­cerning the life, faith, and works of a man who has pro­foundly affected the course of contemporary Christian faith. 
II~ Yf)IJ Sl~l~ Nl~l\rS llilt•t•J~NIN(;, f~ili..J.. '1'111~ f)IISI~Il\TJ~Ilil'l' ti:J I-5:J2:J 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,oa:J Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: 


$200 
• Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 [219)232-8444 


Welcome Parents! Come Join Us At 
• Breakfast served all day •Lunch •Dinner 
•Or a snack ANYTIME 
Just Minutes from Campus 
OPEN 24 HOURS 
1710 
N.lronwood 
277-7400 


WE 




New Delivery Hours: r---#rvaiue-wlear--:
BAI JU'S 
c 
H 
I N E 
s 
E 
c 
u 
I 
s 
I 
N 
E 


DELIVER  4 30:  p.m.  
271-0125  until  
($B00 Mini~um:  ~idnight!•  

Now H1r1ng Dehvery &Cash1er 
l•Egg Roll l 
!•Sweet&SourChickenl !•Steamed Rice '•Fortune Cookie

$489 
with this coupon 
---·--------···--------~ 


. with this coupon

L----··--·--·----------­
.,.~~~~~--~-~-~-··~.~rr~•~·~l~l~l~l~.~l~4~1~i~F~F~i·i~ITI~i·f~i~~----~•~~~~~+~•~•~~~~~~--~•~•~~~·~ ~~~~~~~----~~~------~--­
1 1 1 1 \' \ \ \ l ~I t ~ ~ ,-\~ l I\ I It ~\;-:-,··.-,~.-.-,~To
1 1 1

~ '' .. · · '1 'o I I I I I I I I • I I I ' I I I I I I 1 I I I I 1 I 1 1 ' I j I I j. 1 1 1 ' \ ' I I ' t J I 1 J I , t I I 1 1 , t I I I I / J I I I I '• ' .
I''• / • 
0 I ~ >. ' I I I o ~ I I • & • I I > ' I 0 0 o ' 
I 
I page4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, October 7, 1994 
was divinely inspired." pects of religion, according to opportunity to open people's Stiles said that the change of Pullapilly. minds to other cultures and en­
Testrunent Culture
individual words does little to "The New English Catechism able them to realize their 
change the overall meaning of of the Catholic Church was de­stereotypes and prejudices,"
continued from page 1 
continued from page 1 
the text. layed in its publication because said student facilitator for Le 
South Bend Catholic diocese told The South Bend Tribune. "The way we name God is the way Jesus Himself named Him. 
"It has to do with Trinitarian theology. The Son gets his whole existence from the Father. You're talking about the mystery of God." 
The scholarly integrity of the volume has been called into question as well. Lawrence Cunningham, chairman of the theology department at Notre Dame, said he is against the idea of paraphrasing the text of the Bible. "I wouldn't use it in a class," he said, "because it isn't as faithful to the original text as other translations." 
Pullapilly and Stiles said that their edition does stand on its own. Modernizing the words does not change the meaning or the essential theology of the Bible, they said. 
"The Bible reflects the social values of the time it was writ­ten in," said Pullapilly. "It was a paternalistic, patriarchal society, so the language of the period is reflected in the origi­nal texts. But the true meaning of the Bible is its divinely inspired message, not its literal translation. You cannot change the meaning of something that 
"Changes like 'kingdom' to 'realm' and 'Father' to 'Heavenly Parent' are not radi­cal," said Stiles. "We no longer consider God to be a man with a white beard. God does not have a gender. But the basic conception of the Christian Bible -the doctrine of the Trinity, the nature of Christ, right down the line -is the same." 
Stiles said that a Bible that adopts gender neutral language is long overdue. 
"Women have been badly mistreated by the paternalism is our society. They deserve a Bible that uses inclusive lan­guage and treats them equally. They are at least as naturally spiritual [as men)," he said. 
Resistance to the text is based on fear and ignorance, said Stiles. He said most critics are "church leaders from a male chauvinist background and are unwilling to accept the wants, needs, and demands of today's society." 
"We recognize a sexless exis­tence in heaven; why does it not follow that we treat each other equally on earth?" he said. 
Inclusive language may be forging its way into other as­American bishops were push­ing for an inclusive language text," he said. 
• SECURITY BEAT Mon., Oct. 3 of injuries sustained during a fall. 9:21 a.m. Two Morrissey Hall resi· 5:45 p.m. A Morrissey Hall residentdents reported the theft of cash from repored the theft of his bike from thetheir unlocked room. Morrissey Hall bike rack.12:15 p.m. A Fischer Graduate Housing resident reported receiving a harassing phone call. Wed., Oct. 52:35 p.m. A Pasquerilla East resident 2:01 p.m. A Breen·Phillips residentwas transported to St. Joseph Medical reported the theft of her driver's licenseCenter for treatment of an illness. from her room.11 :05 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident 5:23 p.m. A University employee re­reported the theft of cash from his un­ported the theft of her purse from herlocked room. car while it was parked in the bookstore parking lotTues., Oct. 4 5:25 p.m. A Pasquerilla East resident10:45 a.m. An off-campus student reported a suspicious person on thereported the theft of his watch and cash path around St. Mary's Lake. Securityfrom his bookbag while at the JACC. searched the area but could not find the 11 :02 a.m. A Cavanaugh Hall resident reported the theft of her bike, which was male white subject 8:31 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident waslocked to the fence on Courtney Lane. transported to St. Jospeh Medical1:41 p.m. A visitor was transported to Center for treatment of a sports injury. St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment  
TASTE OF NATIONS Fri. Oct 7 1f(Q)~ ~ GfhTT~ ...,..\Bpm~ 1·2am .::.:.:., Stepan Center  

Greg Sterling, assistant pro­fessor of theology at Notre Dame, said that the gender in­clusive view of the Bible has some merit. Sterling said those interested in studying the liter­al text of the Bible will not find accuracy in a paraphrase, any translation that attempts to make the text easier to under­stand. The line between trans­lating a text faithfully and mis­translating it is thin, he said. 
Conversely, Sterling feels that there is a need for more mod­ern reading of the Bible. "As a Lectionary it may be healthy," to update the language of the Bible to be more gender inclu­sive, he said. "The Bible was written in a specific cultural context; our context today is much different. Are we to read the two contexts in the same way? No," he said. 
Pullapilly shares that view. "As a study of history, you should go to the source mate­rial," he said. "But for the regu­lar use of the faithful, the Bible should be prepared using the language of our time." 
But Pullapilly stresses that this New Testament is not part of an ideological campaign . 
"We are not trying to upset the apple cart. We are doing a service, based on the social val­ues of the time," he said. "This is the next step in the progres­sion of Biblical development." 



$2 off 
0pa Manicure or 0pa Pedicure 
Offer expires: December 1. 1994 


ou V ~ ~ Full &rvice ~alon 1357 N. Ironwood lfair • &kin • Nails 
(Corner of4-Edison @ 1ronwood) ~~~· 
<tf 1'\lkJ: R.& WVF.IIl ANil"-ANT ~c;.'ll;f.NC; :E,"i Hair c.. •Siolo\ c.. •c...... c:-.n;... 
23 6767 



Law 
able to respect the cultures dif­ferent from your own," said Derakhashani. "We will be dis­cussing American culture as well. We want the discussions to be very broad." 
The first group meetings will concentrate on one's own cul­ture. Questionnaires will be passed out, inquiring about one's own origin, ethnic back­ground, and culture. 
They will focus on how one feels about described, and that no right or wrong culture exists. Later meetings will inte­grate these self-identities with feelings towards other cultural groups. 
"I think this will be a good Mans Hall, Kristen Hayward. 
Sarah Orr, a facilitator for Holy Cross Hall, also has great hopes for the Multicultural Commission. "I hope that sev­eral people will join this group. Today it is very important to express what we feel about our own culture and generation so that we can recognize our own differences instead of condon­ing someone else's." 
Storme and Derakhashani encourage more students to be­come involved in this activity. 
Students may join by contact­ing Julie Storme or Mana Derakhashani at the Modern Language Department or by attending the meetings. 

Tuesday October 11, 1994 
10:30 a.m. 2:30 p.m. JACC Concourse 
Co-sponsored by 
Prelaw Society & Career and Placement Services 



[ffi©lWJWJW ~ U@fr 
Jj@[ji}[ji}@ ~[ji}(llicg)@@[ji}gg 
Get it Jenna, You're legal! Get it. . . Get it? 
Love, The Blond Quad 
( 

I I l • I I 
'I I I I I I l l 1 I 
. l I 
Friday, October 7, 1994 The Observer • NEWS pageS 

Haitians cleaning up Suicide puzzles investigators 
By ALEXANDER HIGGINS that at least some of the 23 vic­bodies Thursday in a house
for Aristide's arrival 
Associated Press tims found Wednesday in a owned by Jouret north of 
By ANITA SNOW 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 

Hammers clang and electric saws whine behind the white brick wall as workers rush to get President Jean-Bertrand Aristide's home ready for his arrival. 
Jennifer Jacobs, who leads the security platoon at Aristide's home. "I can't believe how much work they have gotten done." 
Throughout the capital, peo­ple are cleaning up neighbor­hoods and clearing trash, preparing for his expected Oct. 15 arrival. 

CHEIRY, Switzerland 
One cult member wrote her family that she had come to Switzerland to die, and another said the cult was "leaving this earth" to escape "the hypoc­risies and oppression of this world." · 
Investigators struggled 
burning hillside farmhouse in Cheiry had been injected with "a powerful, violent" drug that could have killed them. 
The discovery did not "rule one way or the other for suicide or for murder," he said. "They could have chosen to die that way." 
But Piller said he was con­cerned that although many of the bodies discovered in the farmhouse also had bullet wounds, no gun had been found. 
"We haven't found as yet a point blank weapon, which worries me," Piller said. "There had to be another per­son to put several bullets in the heads of these victims." 
Some of the bodies found in the farmhouse had their hands bound and plastic bags tied around their heads. 
Police said earlier that the 25 other bodies found in three ski chalets in Valais, about 45 miles from the farmhouse, showed no signs of violence and appeared to "have been put to sleep." 
Meanwhile, Canadian police discovered at least two more Montreal. Two bodies had been found earlier at the house, which was destroyed in an ar­son fire Tuesday. The fire was set by remote control in the same manner as the fires that razed the Cheiry farmhouse and Valais chalets. 

Piller said documents showed that several of the cult mem­bers were entangled in a dis­pute with the cult's leaders over money. Swiss television specu­lated that Jouret and another cult leader, Joseph di Mambro, made the deaths look like a mass suicide to quash revolt. 
Piller said authorities had found the cars of three cult members who were "at the farm and who left a little before the drama." 
He would not say if the dri­vers of the cars were among those detained for questioning. Police were still searching for several people in connection with the deaths. 
Bernard Geiger, police chief in Valais canton, where the bodies of 25 people were found, including several children, said he did not believe all the cult members wanted to die. 
Inside, about 50 workers are U.S. soldiers patrolled outside laboring 20 hours a day re-the white-domed Presidential modeling the white, C-shaped Palace, where Aristide will con­two-story house in time for his duct business. Forty men with planned arrival next week. pickaxes and shovels cleaned Twenty more waited outside up a road in suburban La Thursday morning, hoping to Plaine; about 200 waited out­help. side City Hall in the capital, 
"When the president comes heeding Mayor Evans Paul's back we want him to come call to help. back to a clean country," said At the presidential home James Georges, 23. near the airport, workers tore 
"These people are working down old walls and replaced like bees almost around the them with new ones, applying clock," said U.S. Army 2nd Lt. drywall.



r.------------------------,
:50¢ OFF Frozen YO~ : : YODUrl Cup w.r•• Asuti•• a.v.~r~··'~ :
y;,;Size Only Campus Shoppes
1 1
1 Offer good only at Campus Shoppes store 1837 S. Bend Ave. 1 L ~t.::_a~ ~h.!n!.o!!e~o!!:r~~-2212:1~ ___!"!],:!1~4!!_ __ .J 

ame 
ncounter 
presents 
KATE BARRETT 
on 
'THE PEACE AND SIMPLICITY OF ST. FRANCIS' 
All are welcome and encouraged to attend Sunday, October 9 at 2 p.m. in the Log Chapel 
Thursday to explain the mass deaths of 48 followers of the mysterious Order of the Solar Tradition, amid revelations that some victims had been injected with a powerful drug and the discovery of more bodies at a house in Canada owned by cult leader Luc Jouret. 
There was still no sign of Jouret, and authorities said they did not know if he was dead or alive. 
Initial investigations sug­gested that some of the cult members committed suicide, while others were murdered. 
Police detained several past and present members of the cult for questioning Thursday and launched an international search for Jouret. 
Investigating judge Andre Piller said autopsies showed 

Monday October 10, 1994 • 7:30p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium South Bend, Indiana 
Tickets available at Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office 
, 
and Tracks (Campus Shoppes, South Bend) Charge at 219-235-9190 or 1-800-537-6415 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW 
A discussion of 


Ethics in La 


with 
Professor Patricia O'Hara 
of the Notre Dame Law School 

Keenan Hall Kommons 7:30pm Monday, October 10, 1994 
Refreshments will be Served .,j
411 

... 
--~---~~~. ~-~~~·-. -· -~ ~
I .I ~ • ' I I 1 I \ ! I ~ • I • • ' ' ' ' . ' ' ' • ' I ' • ' 
• t' I IiI I I 
1  I  t I  • , f  I 1 I  1  . I I I I  · ,  • I • •  \ • \ I ~ I !  • , •  • I I I I I I I  ' I I  1 · I  I  '  I I  
'  •'  >  'I' I'  • o 0 o o  •  
Friday, October 7, 1994  The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT  page6  

PREJUDICE 


REDUCTION ·oRKSHOP 
Ifyou are interested in learning how to confront oppression, then sign up now! 
The Multicultural Executive Council is offering students~ staff and professors the opportunity to participate in this diversity sensitivity workshop: 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 16TH 8:30 AM -4:30 PM EARTH SCIENCE BUILDING 
ROOM 101 • MEALS WILL BE PROVIDED • 
THIS WORKSHOP IS BEING PRESENTED BY THE NOTRE DAME AFFILIATE OF THE NATIONAL COALITION BUILDING INSTITUTE 
CONTACT: MICKEY FRANCO • 631-4355 ADELE LANAN • 631-7308 

I 1 I It I 
j 
I 
I 
I
Friday, October 7, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
i 

Lobbyists kill attempt to regulate their field 
By JIM DRINKARD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Grassroots lobbying groups evaded new government regu­lation Thursday by deploying their modern weapons: the fax machine, the computer and the airwaves. 
A tide of telephone calls to Capitol Hill swamped the last remaining piece of President Clinton's reform agenda and proved anew that technology in the hands of an activist corp_s can change reality in Washington virtually overnight. 
"What it ultimately shows is that an increasingly sophisti­cated network of technological­ly proficient grassroots activists is now more effective than big­feet lobbyists wearing Armani suits on Capitol Hill," said Ralph Reed, president of the Christian Coalition. 
A supporter of the defeated lobbying legislation, Sen. Carl Levin, 0-Mich., said that re­gardless of the methodology, "It was a victory for the special interests." 
The lobbying bill would have imposed strict new reporting requirements on paid profes­sional lobbyists and at the same time a virtual ban on gifts to members of Congress from lob­byists and non-lobbyists alike. Until last week, the bill was seen as a political imperative, a much-needed gesture to help dispel public cynicism about Congress. 
But on Thursday, supporters of the bill said it was all but dead for the year after the Senate voted 52-46 to keep alive a Republican filibuster against it. With barely more than a day left in this year's scheduled congressional ses­sion, there appeared little chance the measure could be revived. 
Reed's group and conserva­tive allies like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Family Research Council began their attack last week, working close­ly with House Minority Whip Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., who began denouncing the bill on the House floor late Monday night. 
At the same time, GOP fax machines were churning out alerts calling the bill a "gag rule on grassroots." By mid-day Tuesday, the bill that earlier had received overwhelming House approval could barely squeak past a key procedural test, 216-205. 
Reed said the Christian Coalition had activated a na­tional fax network linking 1,000 local chapters, each with its own fax or telephone tree num­bering in the hundreds. 
At the same time, he notified televangelist Pat Robertson, who repeated the warning on his "700 Club" cable TV pro­gram and flashed the telephone number for the U.S. Capitol switchboard_. And Reed posted the warning on computer bul­letin boards on Compuserve and the Internet. 
The Family Research Council also weighed in, alerting Christian activist James Dobson, who put the message out on his television show. And talk show host Rush Limbaugh made the topic a feature of his radio program. 
Chambe,r of Commerce fax machines ground out thousands of alerts on the Grassroots Action Information Network, while the organization sent 2 1/2-page sets of "talking points" for senators to use against the bill. 
It's not exactly a report card. But it certainly shows who stands at the head of the class. 

As Sally Oelerich looks forward to graduating this May, we're happy to give her something the entire business world values: our card. Please join us in welcoming the newest member of Ernst & Young. :11 ERNST&YOUNG LLP 

', I I · I ' • \ ~ t ' ~ \ I -I \ ' I ' I I •
'I I' 




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, October 7, 1994 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter SportS Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizaheth Rt:gan ControUer ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoUege. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­mu_niry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Malicious melodies at SOH 
Dear Editor: roommate and me, "Oh, are there two outcasts?" 
I had the unfortunate experience of eating dinner with My roommate heard this comment alone because I had the Notre Dame Glee Club the other evening. This was gotten up to get some food. When I returned to my not my choice, but had the Glee Club been a little more table, suddenly full of people, I asked who they were. tactful, I probably would not have minded. The member sitting next to me told me they were the 
Upon entering the South Dining Hall (right, right) the Glee Club. The atmosphere was a little overwhelming, Glee Club found their normal eating and I commented on it. Another Glee spot occupied. If it had not been occu-Club member next to me said, "Oh don't pied by a majority of people with black 'what, do Asians mind them. They're always this way. hair, perhaps they would have peaceful-You get used to it." ly found another place to sit. One Glee sleep over at I recently had a one day lecture on· Club member said loudly, "What, do South Dining Hall just to ethics in my accounting class. Asians sleep over at South Dining Hall · ? Professor Morris told the class that if just to get their own little table?'' get their own little table·' you are unsure if an issue is ethical or 
The Asian American Association not, think to yourself; Would I mind 
(AAA), as a social function, has invited -------------reading about my actions or words in a its members to eat "right, right" at South Dining Hall newspaper? Glee Club, do you mind reading about your 
6pm on Wednesday nights since the beginning of the words and actions in the newspaper? 
semester. If the Glee Club would like to eat in their own little "reserved" area they will need to get there earlier 
than 6pm. DARCYYALEY 
My roommate and I were eating two tables down from Junior the head table, and as a result had to sit with a table of Knott Hall 
TO M&&TARIANNA­

TH&Nl'V&
HUFFIN6­

GUY %Nt?ING
J(J(Nt;HlEBAN!?, GOT YOUR
TON~ ?20Mit/JONOf
RIJY-MICHA&L­VOTU
fAMI/..YMOV£'1HUfFINGTQV JR.. 
TO 6/iTA5tNA71:3
I

I ~ 
~"""RI6HT? 


5/l?, I'P L.II<C YOU 
\ 

~~--~----~~~~~~-----------------------------r~~~~~~~TT7T~~~~~~~~~~-~~~--------~-.or~.,.-~.•·•·•·•·•·~.~.oc.·I.-..T7,,,,,~~~----­
1 • I I I I I I I I, I 1 1 I I o 1 I I I I ol L o· I I, , , , ~ 1 1 .. 1 ' 1 " W 'I ~ I , I I I 1 • I I I I I 0 I I I • o •I " • • 
• ~ ~ " ,; ,; • 1 ...1 ,\ ,1 I I i t 1 I I ol I I > ,1 1! •' <' tl , I 
Friday, October 7, 1994 page 9 
VIEWPOINT 



Complacency ruins student opportunities 
Active student groups challenge Administration :S involvement 
Time is the essential factor on a col­And yet McKenna was able to force lege campus. Nothing is ever fast some movement, without rioting, in an enough for the students; they have only era when violence and acrimony had four years to arrive, become acclimated became standard tools on college cam­and carve out a home. Administration puses. The Notre Dame student body and faculty, by contrast, are prepared to was conservative even in its activism, stay indefinitely. While a particular stu­but there was an effectiveness that, dent may make an impression and even though seemingly glacial at the moment, become a lifelong friend, a particular produced results even in the sort span class is no more significant than a car by which students measure time. that passes you on the interstate: You McKenna was the second of two very do look over, and you may even take active SBPs, and he built upon the struc­
tural changes wrought by his predeces­
sor, Rich Rossie. Rossie's government 

had worked with the administration to produce the Student Life Council, a tri­
partite board of students, faculty and 
administrators, and a Student Union to 
operate some student services, albeit on 

Pete 
a short leash. In addition, the Hall 
Presidents' Council was poised to sup­answer." on the board. 
plant the Student Senate, working to­McKenna carefully chose the word However, the trustees agreed to divide 
wards a goal of hall autonomy favored "request" rather than "demand," even the Educational and Student Affairs 
notice of it in some detail. But then it is by students and opposed by the as he asked students to gather outside Subcommittee, and to allow student 
gone out of sight, and the trip continues Administration. the Continuing Education Center during representation on the Student Affairs 
Occasionally, however, a class does It was McKenna's intent to use those the October board meeting as a peaceful Subcommittee, with meeting dates to be 
not simply appear in the rear view mir­structures to bring students into part­sign of support. set by that body. 
ror, pull alongside for a moment and nership with the administration. As a "This is not the time or the place for Board minutes would not be released, 
then pass on quickly. Occasionally, stu­first step, he made a set of requests of any tremendous hubbub," he said . but a summary of the meeting would be 
dents think they have a say in how the Board of Trustees, early in the fall of "But, sooner of later, the time will come made public. And, although they 
things ought to be, and they try to '69. when we will not ask any longer." refused to allow the SBP to review the 
change the university. The requests included: student voting McKenna, Dedrick and Art University's budget, the trustees agreed 
Then time becomes a weapon in the representation on the board, disclosure MacFarland, head of the Afro-American to disclose the investment portfolio. 
hands of the administration. To stall for of University investments, publication of Student Association, met with the When the proposals were first put for­
the full four years is rarely necessary; board minutes, a pledge to create trustees for two and a half hours, while ward, McKenna downplayed them, say­
the period when members of a par­greater community within the universi­400 students waited outside. McKenna ing they were not his top priority for the 
ticular class are both active and effec­ty, that the board's subcommittee on welcomed the leverage this turnout pro­year. But the meeting set a tone that 
tive is about two years. You stall on Educational and Student Affairs meet at vided: "Major changes come through would position an activist student gov­
scheduling a first meeting, you agree to least four times a year, and that the displays of unity, and usually, the ernment between a student body poised 
schedule a second meeting, you appoint Student Body President get to see the embarrassment of the University," he to make less civil demands for faster, 
a committee to study the proposal, you University's budget. said. more dynamic changes and an adminis­
shake their hands ai graduation That last request my seem odd, but A total capitulation could hardly be tration fully prepared to diddle until a 
'Perpetuation of the institution takes SBVP Fred Dedrick told the Observer, expected, but the response was encour­more complacent student body came 
priority over the development of the stu­"The University's financial situation is a aging. Board President Edmund Stepan along. 
dent, and any institution that survives roadblock to any type of program we said having a student on the board 
on that idea is not moving at all," de­initiate, from Black Studies down to the would be impossible; members were Pete Peterson. '71, is Readership 
clared Student body President Phil Experimental College. Every time we supposed to be disinterested and neither Services Manager at the Press­
McKenna in 1969. ask for money, we get the same faculty nor administration members sat Republican in Plattsburgh, NY. 

Peterson 
• DISPELLING MYTHS 

Illegally obtained evidence acquits Simpson 
O.J. Simpson may be guilty, but if the gent circumstances did not exist, and O.J. had unexpectedly fled the city, dence. The court's ruling on this issue exclusion of evidence obtained illegally suspecting evidence may be present on although he had actually taken a long­is comparatively strong, but only would set him free, then so be it. Judge the premises, police should have ceased planned business trip. Judge Ito criti­because they have erroneously ruled Lance Ito erred by ruling not to exclude searching until a warrant was secured. cized the procedure of the investigating that the original search was lawful. critical evidence from the Simpson trial; Instead, the police moronically contin­police officers, noting they made six I am not arguing for the suppression in doing so he violated a principle of ued to search the house without justifi­"reckless" misstatements when applying of this evidence so that O.J. can go free, American jurisprudence known as the cation, rifling through personal posses­for warrants, but admitted the evidence but because the L.A.P.D. acted repre­exclusionary rule. This rule, which has sions, and finding time to watch a video­nonetheless. According to a 1984 hensibly and in clear violation of Mr. existed for over 75 years, maintains that tape of O.J.'s upcoming TV show supreme Court decision this "reckless" Simpson's right to privacy. To many evidence seized illegally is not admissi­Frogmen. The search became unlawful behavior should have led to the exclu­this violation is acceptable, but anyone ble in a court of law. Contrary to the when the police began conducting activi-sion of the evidence. In U.S. v. Leon the who truly cherishes the values upon popular belief that the exclusionary rule Court held that "Only when a warrant is which this country is based understands is a procedural defect which exists to let 
grounded upon an affidavit knowingly or the need to protect privacy, especially in blatantly guilty criminals go free, the recklessly false has the court set forth a the most sacred area of our lives: our rule exists to protect the 4th rationale for suppressing evidence pur­homes. Our Founding Fathers revolted
D.J.

Amendment rights of all U.S. citizens by suant to a search warrant." against intrusive activities carried on by deterring wrongful and intrusive police Suppression is appropriate in O.J.'s case British soldiers in their homes. Today, conduct. When the courts fail to employ because the judge issuing the warrant citizens of the United States do not want the rule in situations in which evidence was misled by information in the affi­their homes searched in the reckless
Sarafa

was illegally obtained, they condone po­davit. Detective Vannatter knew the manner in which police searched O.J.'s 
lice misconduct which threatens the information was false or would have house; that holds true for ordinary citi­
right to privacy of all Americans. known it was false except for his reck­zens as well as former superstars, for 
Mr. Simpson's defense made motions ties totally unrelated to the objective less disregard for the truth. Judge Ito guilty as well as innocent. In short, the 
to suppress 34 items allegedly seized which authorized the initial intrusion. walked a fine line by emphatically trial is not only about O.J ., it is also 
illegally. The defense's motions were That is, it became unlawful when they chastising the officers "reckless" behav­about each of us. By failing to suppress 
based upon the fact that police searched stopped looking for a wounded person ior and simultaneously admitting the evidence obtained illegally the courts 
Mr. Simpson's house for nearly six and began looking for evidence. The evidence in question, thereby ignoring condone intrusive police misconduct, 
hours before obtaining a warrant. As a search violates U.S. Supreme Court deci­the Supreme Court's ruling in U.S. v. thereby jeopardizing our venerable 
general rule warrants are always sion Mincey v. Arizona (1978), which Leon. Judge Ito justified this apparent fourth Amendment right to be free from 
required for a search, although lawful held that a warrantless search must be paradox by ruling that the "reckless" unreasonable searches and seizures. It 
exceptions do exist. The police justified "strictly circumscribed by the exigencies misstatements were not enough to void is questionable whether or not the sup­
this search by arguing that blood stains which justify its initiation." Because ex­the affidavit; probable cause would have pression of evidence would lead to the 
outside the mansion led them to believe igent circumstances no longer existed, existed even without the misstatements acquittal of O.J. Simpson, but if it did, I 
that someone inside might be hurt, and there was no apparent threat that (in accordance with "harmless error" believe setting him free would be justifi­
therefore justifying the warrantless the evidence would be destroyed while rule Franks v. Delaware, 1978). The able to protect the rights of all 
search on the basis that "exigent cir­awaiting a warrant, the search was il­validity of this argument is contingent Americans. 
cumstances" existed. The initial entry legal and any evidence obtained during upon the lawfulness of the original 
was reasonable and lawful; any evi­that time should be inadmissible. search. If the original search was D.J Saraja.is a first year student at 
dence police may have found in the Police did eventually seek out and unlawful (as I am arguing above) then Notre Dame Law School. The views 
process of searching the area to ascer­receive a warrant. The defense argued, evidence seen during that time cannot expressed in this column are in no way 
tain whether someone was in danger or however, that the warrant was obtained be used exploitatively to establish prob­related to those of the Law School com­
in need of their assistance would be illegally because lead investigator Phil able cause to obtain a legal warrant, munity. 
admissible. Once discovering that exi-Vannatter claimed in an affidavit that which is subsequently used to seize evi­
'It 'I  I j o I 0 I I J I I  , I I l 0 I •  I I I o' 0 I I  
• o f t ~ '• 1 o o 1 , o I I I o ! , o J I J J ' I I t  1 I I I I I \ I I t t t I• I ~ o I I I I I  I o I I > I I I ) !  t I It '• 't !1 I, I I I I, I I 0 I I I I I, 11 I h 1 ' \ ~ ~ II • •  
page 10  The Observer• WEEKEND  Friday, October 7, 1994  

Moreau Galleries hosts art which explores Identity 

"Self Portrait in Gray and White" (View A) by artist Maria Brito will be a part of the Multicultural art exihibit at Saint Mary's. 
By LORI ALLEN 
Accent Writer 
As multicultural week comes to an end, one multicultural exhibition marks its beginning. (Dis) Connections: Exploring Cultural Identity in the Moreau Galleries is an exhibition of pho­tography, painting, sculpture, and draw­ings by artists Maria Brito, Kim Hoffmann, Wyatt Osato, Scottie Stapletorr and Hulleah Tsinhnahjinnie. 
This feature begins today, October 7, and runs through November 4. The exhibition's focus is on using self por­traits to explore the issues surrounding cultural identity and heritage beyond being American. 
"By reclaiming and reinventing their own identity in self-portraits (symbolic and actual), each artist has developed a language which investigates adaptation and transformation," said K. Johnson Bowles, Director of the Moreau Galleries. 
The Gallery hopes to educate the stu­dents about other cultures and how they interact and connect with one another. 
According to Bowles, this exhibit is significantly important during Multicultural Awareness Week because it is a jumping off point, the beginning of a realization of other cultures, emphasizing connection. 
"Art can play an important role in diversity and how we view the world. Through art you can gain insight into the formal and informal traditions of a culture," said Maricela Ramirez, Director of Multicultural Affairs at Saint Mary's. 
"And by exhibiting art from various artists, you are enhancing the cultural experience of a larger community," Martinez added. 

Bowles of the Moreau Galleries said that students should attend this exhibit because of the real emotion it elicits. 
"The exhibition encompasses the range of emotions surrounding cultural identification issues. Images of anger and defiance, irony and humor, as well as nostalgia and loss, expose educate and humanize the nature of our connec­tions with and disconnections from each other," said Bowles. 
One of the artists featured in the exhibit is Maria Brito. Cuban artist Maria Brito deals with issues about feel­ing fragmented, and the emotional and physical pull between two cultures. 
One such exhibit, "Self-Portrait In Grey and White," a mixed media sculp­ture, is symbolic of the push-pull rela­tionship with heritage. It shows both the connection and disconnection appar­ent in almost all of the works. 
"In general, art exhibits show how the European classics were the model for dance, visual arts, theatre, and the like. Art exhibits are measured by these stan­dards when in actuality we should be viewing them as their own, seeing them for what they are, and understanding their importance," said Ramirez. Each work of art featured at this exhibit con­tains its own importance. 
The Moreau Galleries are located in Moreau Hall on the Saint Mary's cam­pus. Gallery hours are Tuesday through Friday, 10 am .. -12p.m. and 1p.m.-4 
p.m. Saturday hours run from 10 a.m.­12 p.m. The gallery is open on Sundays from 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 

"Self Portrait in Gray and White" (View B) by Maria Brito, cuban artist who deals with issues about feeling fragmented. 

Taste of Nations quenches aPPetite for diversifY 
about, and learn from differ­ences, not necessarily by mix­ing them together amor­phously, but rather by uniting while remembering and appre­ciating individuality. 
This week's Multicultural Fall 
Festival will culminate in a "Taste of Nations" celebration. 
The celebration will include food booths from various coun­
tries as well as live cultural entertainment and Meringue and Umbo contests. 
Taste of Nations will feature the musical groups, Sabor Latino, Voices of Faith, Main Street and Musa Woye-African musician. 
"The Multicultural Executive Council's goal the year and espe­ially this week, is to show the campus the diversity that exists
\ 
always, but 
that we 
don't al­
w a y s 
see," said 
A I e x 
Montoya, 
a Notre 
Dame junior 
a n d 
Multicultural 
Executive Board 
member. 
"It will give people a 
taste and a chance to 
experience the ex­
citement of the beauty and 
diversity of our students," said Emily Malcoun, a Notre Dame senior and Multicultural Executive Board member. 
The celebration is today from 8p.m.-12a.m. at Stepan Center and admission is $1. 

•11·a.m. 
Notre Dame vs. Boston College -s p.m. to midnight ~aste of Nations'' at Stepan Center 

•7 
p.m. &9:30 p.m. Ani nation Film Festival at Cushing Auditorium 



By THERESA ALEMAN 
Accent Writer 
Is there such a thing as a dis­tinctly American culture? The "Happy Days" image of "The Great American Melting Pot" seems to have boiled over and rotted amidst the Civil Rights turmoil our country cannot hide from the history books. 
No longer, perhaps never an apt descrip­tion for American culture, 
T h e Melting Pot" has b e e n washed out, recy­cled, and re-fashioned into a shining new serving tray by the Notre D a m e Multicultural Executive Council. 
The tray holds a hodge-podge of new American, culturally diverse foods. 
The faces which offer the food are from many different cultural backgrounds. 
A group of ethnically and reli­giously diverse students has gathered to celebrate, educate 

•Noon to 1 p.m. Fireside Chat: ~kfeat of • Feminist Family'" by Janet kounmy & Jim Sterba
::.... 

•Noon to 1 p.m. Culture on the Quad at Fieklhouse
CCI Man
-a 

•7 p.m. &9:30 p.m. Animation FUm Festival at
·-.. Cushing Auditorium 
II. •Toga Party at SMC Dining Hall 


----~-----­

~------------------­

Friday, October 7, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 2 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE. • • 



The Observer/ Johnn Binghamy 

PLAYER TO WATCH... • .. STEPHEN BOYD 
Fifty sure has been 
ballcarriers an amaz­nifty thus far for ing 25 times, 21 of Boston College. which went down as 
Eagle inside line­solo tackles. Throw in backer Stephen Boyd two sacks and two wears number 50. Big tackles for losses and deal, huh? you have a 'player of 
Well, maybe not, but the week' type perfor­if if you take a look at Boyd mance. That is exactly 
his stats, you'll soon see why fifty is so significant. You see, that is exactly how many tackles the 6-foot-1, 235­pound Boyd has registered thus far. In three games. 
Nothing short of spectacular, but that is just what BC has come to expect from the Valley Stream, NY native. 
As a matter of fact, Notre Dame has come to expect the same type of performance from Boyd. In his two games against the Irish, he was in on 32 tackles. In fact, he was in on one of the 1993 game'smost important plays, the first-quar­ter block of a Kevin Pendergast field goal attempt. This play set up the Eagles' first score and set the game's tempo. 
Setting the tempo is some­thing Boyd can do. 
In the BC's loss to Virginia Tech, Boyd met various Hokie 

what Boyd earned, as he was named the Big East Co­Defensive Player of the Week. 
That came on the heels of his previous week's major acco­lade, the Sporting News Defensive Player of the Week Award for his effort against Michigan. 
But such praise is nothing too new to Boyd. Last season, he was the only Eagle named to the Big East's first team defensive team. 
Now, Boyd may have one more award in mind -the prestigious Butkus Award. He is in the running so far, as he was recently named to the "watch list". 
Another gritty effort tomor­row against Notre Dame in front of a national television audience would go a long way toward this. 
--TIM SHERMAN 




This stare--down 
just has to end 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Assistant Sports Editor 

In 1992, the Boston College Eagles soared into Notre Dame Stadium with an undefeated record and spiraling confidence. Their wings were clipped and sent back with a 54-7 spanking. 
Last season, it was the Irish who entered the game as the undefeated number one team in the country. A little game of role reversal was played and the Eagles flew to the upset. 
The point is, when you're talking about Notre Dame/Boston College there is nothing certain. Until now. 
The Eagles' defense has not allowed a regular situation touchdown in their past two games. The Irish, on the other hand, have found the end zone eight times in their past two contests. 
Something is going to change. 

However, if the past does, in fact, turn out to be any indication, the change should be in Notre Dame's favor. The Irish have tallied 93 points in the first two games of the twelve game series and may finally have a cohesive offense. 
. Holtz and the Irish, though, know enough not to be overconfident. If they don't, a quick look at the BC defense should do the trick. 
"Boston College has not given up a touchdown in their last two football games," noted Holtz. "They returned nine starters from last year's team that stopped our running game . " 
If the Irish are to establish that rushing attack this year, the offensive line must continue its recent strong play. Considering all the transac­tions that have occured on the front line, this may be tough. Nagging injuries to Steve Misetec, Ryan Leahy, and, the latest, Mike Doughty, have hampered the consistency that Holtz desires. 
Couple this problem with Boston College's vast­ly improved defensive line, and the ground game should be a dogfight. 
"Their front four is as impressive as any we are going to play against this year," said Holtz. 
He was specifically referring to the play of Chris Sullivan, a defensive tackle, and nose guard Tim Morabito. 
Sullivan, 6'5", 273 lbs., has registered five tackles behind the line of scrimmage and two sacks totaling a loss of 14 yards. Morabito, who stands 6-foot-3 and tips the scales at 272 lbs., has contributed three more tackles for a loss and a sack. 
In addition, the Eagles boast two fine lineback­ers, Mike Mamula and Stephen Boyd, who will be keeping a careful watch on the sophomore backs of the Irish. 
Mamula, who has been all over the field for the Eagles, was the defensive player of the game last year in South Bend. His partner, Boyd has notched 50 tackles thus far in just three games and has been involved in four turnovers. 
As usual, protecting the ball will be a major factor. Last year, the Irish were devastated by the turnovers. This time, it is just as much of an issue, especially considering the likely absence of sure-handed Lee Becton and Ray Zellars. 
"We are going to have an all sophomore back­field," Holtz said. "Holding the ball and pro­tecting the ball, et cetera will be very, very important." 
Equally important, will be the air attack. If the Irish do get stalled on the ground, the pass should be a more than viable option. If Holtz wants to use it. 
In the past two games, Powlus has been allowed to throw just 28 times. He has complet­ed 20 of them for 277 yards and four touch­downs without throwing an interception. 
Boston College's Michael Reed and Eric Shorter are solid defensive backs, but the loss of senior cornerback Joe Kamara, who shined last season, has left the backfield with little depth. This should be exploited by the Irish. 
And though they won't really discuss it, the Irish have one more thing to exploit -a little thing caused revenge. Should the offense get off to a sluggish start, a quick reminder of November 20, 1993 should be a jumpstart. 


• RATING THE IRISH 

Quarterback 5 Ron Powlus had an outstanding effort against Stanford last week, throwing for four touchdowns. Look for the same this week against the Eagles. 
Running Back 4 This week, the Irish will miss Lee Becton and Ray Zellars. But they still have a whole slew of sophomores. 
Wide Receiver 5 Mayes and Miller always impress, and Stafford is becoming a go-to guy for Powlus and Notre Dame. 
Offensive Line 3 The running game has started to get going as of late, but pass protection is still a problem. 
Defensive Line 4 The team's most steadily improving unit, the defensive line can really bolster its reputation this week against the Eagles. 
Linebackers 5 Bert Berry came into his own last week against Stanford. And Goheen, Sample, Nau and Wynn are playing out­standing. 
Secondary 3 You cannot consider yourself really improved or even really good when you give up 360 yards passing in one game to Stanford. 
Special Teams 4 Tough tackles, making the punter fumble, blocking field goals, deep kicks... Holy Cow, is this the same Irish spe­cial teams that started the sesason? 
Coaching 5 Dan Henning may have coachea in the NFL, but so did Bill Walsh. Look for Lou Holtz to give Henning a rude awakening to college football. 
-MIKE NORBUT 

38 
Whether they say it or not, revenge has to be on the minds of the Irish players. They will come out inspired and with something to prove. 

page 3 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
EAGLES ON THE OFfENSIVE. 


Redemption key 
word for Irish 
By JASON KELLY But to hear Irish coach Lou Holtz tell it, they Associate Spons Editor will probably pick the Eagles off the turf, dust them off and say 'Nice run, buddy. Better luck 
Its reputation began to deteriorate last season 
next time.' against Boston College. "We don't have the nasty arrogant attitude that 
The Notre Dame defense, fresh from a thrash­hopefully we will have eventually," Holtz said. ing of Florida State and Heisman Trophy winner "They still talk to the offense." Charlie Ward, let the Eagles score 41 points, They likely won't be speaking kind words including a game-winning field goal that sailed 
Saturday.right at the stomach of Touchdown Jesus. Boston College and Notre Dame aren't exactlyIt knocked the wind out of Notre Dame's title best buddies, anymore. A 54-7 Irish win two 
chances and deflated the reputation of the Irish years ago provided the motivation for last year's defense. 
Eagle upset. Its a new group this season, with a new coordi­This season, it's Notre Dame's turn to return nator, but dogged by the same problems. the favor. In the home opener against Michigan, the 
It's a Boston College offense minus quarter­Wolverines orchestrated a game-winning drive back Glenn Foley, who orchestrated the upset
eerily simliar to Boston College's backbreaker. 
last season. Redemption will be on their minds Saturday. 
New quarterback Mark Hartsell has been Expect a repeat of last week's powerful perfor­injured, but he'll return Saturday to try to revive mance. 
the Eagles offense. 

The Irish defense would like nothing more than 
One constant on that offense is tight end Pete to make Boston College its punching bag. Mitchell. 


He did some severe damage to the Irish last year, catching 13 passes for 137 yards and two touchdowns. 
He needs just 14 more catches to break the Boston College career record. 
"Pete Mitchell, in only three games, has 16 receptions this year already," Holtz said. "He has got a great knack for finding the open area and he also has the quickness and the speed to get open deep." 
The Eagles' ground game isn't quite as threat­ening, though tailback David Green runs behind­a couple of powerful fellas on the left side of the line. 
Gu~rd Greg Landry is a monster at 6-foot-4, 301 pounds and tackle Pete Kendall can open a few holes himself. 
But Eagles don't run. They fly. First-year coach Dan Henning has only compli­cated an already tricky Boston College offense. With an open date last week, they should have some new looks to show the Irish. 
"(Henning) has done nothing but contribute to the complexities of their offense," Holtz said. "I don't think there is any doubt that we will just have to go in and adjust during the course of the football game. I know that Dan is a great film studier and a very innovative coach. He will have some things ready for us that we haven't seen thus far.'' 
But the Eagles haven't seen the Notre Dame defense angry. Saturday's game will be as much about inspi­ration as intricate schemes. 
Nobody will admit that revenge is a factor, but the defense hasn't forgotton what happened last year. 
They want to give Boston College something to remember, this time. 

PLAYER TO WATCH•••PETE MITCHELL 
Pete Mitchell, more 
university made a than David Gordon, commitment to me slung the stone that five years ago when slayed Notre Dame they gave me a schol­last season. arship." 
Gordon's kick pro­Mitchell's commit­vided the most memo­ment to his school has rable image of Boston been equally un­College's deflating de­Mitchell shakable. feat of the Irish. He has been the most 
But it was Mitchell, more consistent receiver for the last than anyone else, who made it four seasons, needing just 14 all possible. more receptions to break 
The 6-foot-2, 238-pound se­Mark Chmura's school record. nior tight end caught a re­When Mitchell was a red­
l
markable 13 passes against shirt freshman, Chmura was 
I 
Notre Dame, including a pair busy chewing up records. during the Eagles fateful fmal "I learned a lot from Mark," drive, and scored two touch­Mitchell said. "When I came in 
1 downs. I never thought I would end up Ten of his catches were first­leaving with the record." down grabs. Barring injury. he will leave Without his reliable pres­not only with the reception ence, Boston College couldn't record, but also with a rock­have opened a 21-point lead solid reputation. over the newly-crowned No. 1. That reputation, as much as And David Gordon wouldn't his remarkable skill, will carry have had the chance to change him into the professional the course of the season with ranks, a move that he's sure to one swing of his leg. make after this season. A first-team All-American in "He will play on Sunday 1993, Mitchell shunned the after his college career is quick cash of the NFL to fmish over," Irish coach Lou Holtz his eligibility with the Eagles. said. "I don't think there's any "I felt like I owed it to them doubt about that." to stay," Mitchell said. "The -JASONKELLY 



32 
The defense may keep Boston College in the game, but there is just not enough firepower to withstand Notre Dames anger. 

Quarterback 2 Mark Hartsell is not experienced, he is not proven, and he has yet to win a game. He was injured against Pitt last week. 
Running Back 2 David Green has been around for awhile, but his support in the backfield is lacking. The Eagles could be effective on the ground if the Irish look for pass too much. 
Wide Receiver 5 Any team with Pete Mitchell always has a chance to win. Boston College proved it last year. 
Offensive Line 4 A very experienced unit that will need to protect Hartsell if the Eagles hope to have a chance. 
Defensive Line 4 The Eagles return three starters to their defensive line, which was a fine unit a year ago. They will have the task ofstopping the Irish running game. 
• RATING THE EAGLES 

Linebackers 5 Stephen Boyd lea-as the team with 50 tackles in the first three games. And the other two guys are no slouches. 
Secondary 3 Boston College returns two starters this year, but the two that didn't play last year, Rob Clifford and Daryl Porter, leave something to be desired. 
Special Teams 3 Jeff Beckley is solid at punter, returners are explosive, but the Eagles' special teams on the whole are average at best. But look out--David Gordon is still the kicker. 
Coaching4 Dan Henning has plenty of experience. But the Falcons were patsies when he coached in Atlanta, and the Chargers were awful when he was in San Diego. On top of that, he has never played Notre Dame or faced Lou Holtz. Winning this one may be tough for him. 
-MIKE NORBUT 
f. 

---~--------­
Friday, October 7, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page4 







EAGLES 

s . . ­ 
TEAM STATS  Opp  BC  PASSING  Comp  Att  %  Yds  TO  lnt  Lg  
First Downs  52  55  Hartsell  31  54  57.4  356  3  3  74  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
Total yardage  955  1082  Ryan  14  35  40.0  137  1  0  24  Beckley  19  44.6  0  61  
Offensive plays  214  228  Mutryn  10  23  43.5  t18  1  5  28  
Avg. yards per play  4.46  4.75  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Total yards per game  318.3  360.7  RECEIVING  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Ransome  8  20.8  0  39  
Rushing yards  420  471  Mitchell  16  136  8.5  24  Watson  3  17.7  0  19  
Rushing plays  126  116  Watson  12  165  13.8  2  27  
Rushing yards per game  140.0  157.0  Cannon  5  95  19.0  0  28  PUNT RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Passing yards  535  611  Green  5  34  6.8  0  18  Watson  4  7.3  0  14  
Passes completed  47  55  Laro  5  33  6.6  1  25  Ransome  3  3.3  0  9  
Passes attempted  88  112  Smith  5  21  4.2  0  6  
Passes intercepted  3  8  INTERCEPTIONS  No  Yds  TO  Lg  
Passing yards per game  178.3  203.7  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rec  Ret  Tot  Avg  Shorter  2  0  0  0  
Fumbles I fumbles lost  815  1114  Green  354  34  0  388  129.3  Boyd  0  0  0  
Penalties I penalty yards  221183  211167  Watson  0  165  82  247  82.3  
3rd down conversions  9-43  15-47  Ransome  0  0  176  176  58.7  DEFENSE  Tot  FR  PBU  BK  Sac  
percentage  20.9  31.9  Smith  115  21  0  136  48.7  Boyd  50  2  0  2  
4th down conversions  2-4  4-8  Mitchell  0  136  0  136  48.7  Shorter  28  1  0  0  0  
Grice  0  99  0  99  33.0  Porter  25  0  1  0  0  
SCORE BY QUARTERS  1  2  3  4  T  Cannon  0  95  0  95  31.7  Half  24  0  0  0  2  
Opponents  3  23  16  13  55  PAT  PAT  Mamula  22  0  0  2  
Boston College  23  10  0  21  54  SCORING  TO  X2  x1  FG  Sal  P1s  Coline!  16  0  1  0  2  
Watson  2  0  0-0  0  0  12  Sullivan  16  0  0  0  2  
RUSHING  Yds/Gm  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  "Lucky" Gordon  0  0  7-7  1  0  10  Reed  13  1  0  0  
Green  118.0  70  354  5.1  0  20  Grice  0  0-0  0  0  6  Maye  13  0  0  0  
Smith  38.3  20  115  5.8  41  Laro  0  0-0  0  0  6  Clifford  11  0  1  0  0  
Comer  15.5  11  31  2.8  10  Mitchell  0  0-0  0  0  6  Morabito  10  0  0  0  
Hartsell  8.5  5  17  9  Smith  0  0-0  0  0  6  Wiggins  10  0  0  0  0  
Walker  0.3  4  1  Walker  0  0-0  0  0  6  Sanabria  0  0  0  0  
-9.0  3  -27  
3  
•  
No. 1 2  Name Steve Everson T any Ransome  Pos. WR WR  Ht. 5-10 5-9  WI. 161 173  Yr. FA 2 JR  DAN HENNING  BOSTON COLLEGE  
3 4 5 6 7 7 8 9 1 0 11 12 13  Mitchell Carr Kenyatta Watson Joe Kamara Eric Shorter Matt Hasselback David Hasselhoff Jeff Ryan Chris Hackett Mark Hartsell Jeff Beckley Scott Mutryn Willie Wright "Lucky" Gordon Billy Gustin Rob Tardio Michael Reed Dennis Harding Brett Bleeker  WR WR CB S QB RB QB K QB K QB S K S QB CB WR K  5-9 5-10 5-9 5-10 6-4 6-1 6-2 5-9 6-5 6-1 6-3 6-3 6-0 6-2 6-5 5-9 6-2 6-5  188 170 174 187 209 350 211 171 215 182 200 205 181 185 215 177 176 182  so so SA SA FA SA JR FA so SR FA FA SR FA FA SR FA so  First season at Boston College Career Record at Boston College: 1-2 Against Notre Dame: First game Highlights: Has coached both the Atlanta. Falcons and the San Diego Chargers. Received first college win last week with a. 21-9 downing of Pittsburgh.  Sept. 3 at Michigan Sept. 1'{-VIRGINIA TEGtj -sept. 21 at Pittsburqh Oct. 8 t-!OTRE DAME Oct. 15 , TEMPLE Oct. 22l{ ~~TGERS Oct. 2,P ''af'~rmy Nov. 5 at LoaisJflle Nov. 12 SYR~CUSL Nov. 19 at We"S\Virginia Nov. 26 at Miami  26-34. L 7-12, L 21-9, w 12:00 EST 12:00 ' 12:00 1:35 7:30 12:00 3:30 3:30  
Greg Grice  WR  5-9  192  JR  
Dan McGuire  K  5-9  201  SR  
Jermaine Walker  WR  5-10  165  FA  
Rupert English  LB  6-1  237  so  
Proper English  RB  5-3  285  FA  
Rob Clifford  S  6-1  193  JR  
Shalom Tolefree  RB  5-10  175  FA  
Call T ollfree  QB  1-80  211  SA  
Clarence Cannon WR  5-10  167  SR  
Anthony Comer  RB  5-10  211  SA  
David Green  RB  5-11  193  SR  
Malcolm Williams  RB  6-1  240  FA  
Omari Walker Chris Campbell  RB RB  5-10 5-10  200 210  FA JR  ALUMNI STADIUM  
Keith Kormanik  S  5-11  192  JR  
Marcus Allen  CB  5-9  170  so  
Charlie Smith TomWilson  DB LB  5-9 5-10  177 202  so SR  Opened in 1957  
Mario Tillman Mike Cloud  RB RB  5-8 6-0  203 210  FA FA  Capacity 44,500  
Storm Cloud Justice Smith  CB RB  5-6 5-10  450 181  JR JR  Surface Artificial Turf  
Farouk Brown Dary!Porter  RB CB  5-11 5-9  248 178  JR so  Eagles at home 131-60-1  
Bobby Edmonds  LB  6-3  220  FA  
Brian Maye  LB  6-3  225  so  
Yesyu May  C  5-1  323  SA  
Andy Krauza  DE  6-4  220  FA  
Jason Schermer  LB  6-2  229  so  
Terence Wiggins  S  5-11  192  JR  
Stephen Boyd  LB  6-1  235  SA  
Erik Storz  LB  6-2  220  FA  
Michael Hemmert  LB  6-3  253  FA  
Jerod Funke  LB  6-5  238  FA  
53  Grand Funk  G  7-0  330  so  
54  Tim O'Brien  C  6-3  271  JR  
55  Erik Lyman  LB  6-2  227  JR  
55  Dont Lieman  G  5-9  202  FA  
56  Ed Sanabria  LB  6-1  222  SA  
57  Matt Half  LB  6-3  228  so  
58  Tim Morabito  NG  6-3  272  JR  
 
59 60  Mike Mamula Andy Mitcham Ben Velishka  DE C OG  6-5 6-5 6-5  242 251 275  JR FA SA  COLLEGE  BOSTON c~!!oiH!----__.;_-=--,  
Chris Harwick Greg Landry Doyur Laundry Josh Porter  DL OG K OT  6-3 6-4 5-8 6-7  265 301 125 280  so JR SA JR  20-Greg Grice, 5·9, 192, JR 3-Mitchell Crut, 5-9, 188, SO  OFFENSE  DEFENSE  LE  99-Stalin Colinet, 6-6, 253, SO 92-Nick Gianacakos, 6-5, 258, SO  
Pete Kendall Dan Oriskovich  OT OT OG  6-5 6-3 6-4  286 290 286  JR so so  30-David Green, 5·11, 193, SR 42--Justice Smith, 5-10, 181, JR  NG  58-Tim Morabito, 6·3, 272, JR 73-John Coleman, 6-1 ,263, SO  
Guy Iavarone John Coleman Coleman Lantern  DT DL NG  6-2 6-1 7-2  253 263 145  FA so SR  10-Mark Hartsell, 6·5, 215, SO 8-Jeff Ryan, 6-2, 211, SR  DT  93-Chris Sullivan, 6·5, 273, JR · 97-Joe O'Brien, 6-4, 275, JR  
Doug Brzezinski OT Adam Myers OG Brian Van Berghe OT Tim Zeglin OT Brian O'Connor OG  6-5 6-3 6-7 6-7 6-4  280 258 272 270 290  FA FR JR FA so  82-Pete Mitchell, 6·2, 238, SR 89-Todd Pollack, 6-4, 229, SO 27-C. Cannon, 5-10, 167, SR  RE MLB  59-Mike Mamula, 6·5, 242, JR 96-Marcus Bembry, 6-3, 251, SO 50-Stephen Boyd, 6·1, 235, SR  
John Hostetler  DT TE TE  6-3 6-7 6-4  273 250 235  FA so FA  4-Konyatte Watson, 5-10, 170, SO 66-Pete Kendall, 6·5, 286, JR  WSL  55-Erik Lyman, 6-2, 227, JR 56-Ed Sanabria, 6·1, 222, SR  
TE T LB  6-2 6-4 6-3  238 145 230  SA so FA  65-Josh Porter, 6-7, 280, JR 63-Greg Landry, 6·4, 301, JR  SSL  46cBrian Maye, 6-3, 225, SO 57-Matt Haft, 6·3, 228, SO  
WR DE TE  5-7 6-4 6-6  164 235 256  JR FA SA  75-Adam Myers, 6-3, 258, SO 54-Tim O'Brien, 6-3,271, JR  LCB  24-Rupert English, 6-1, 237, SO 17-Michael Reed, 5·9, 177, SR  
Roger Beckwith Tony Schwartz Todd Pollack  WR LB TE  6-1 6-1 6-4  203 230 229  FA SA FA  79-John Hostetler, 6-3, 273, SO 71-Mark Nori, 6·4, 286, SO  SS  26-Shalom Tolefree, 5-10, 175, FR 6-Eric Shorter, 5·10, 187, SR  
Markell Blount Jonathan Miles  LB DT  6-3 6-5  215 260  FA FA  78-Brian O'Connor, 6-4, 290, SO  13-Willie Wright, 6-3, 205, FR  
DL DT  6-5 6-5 6-3  258 273 240  so JR FA  70-Dan Oriskovich, 6·3, 290, SO 74-Doug Birzezinski, 6-5, 280, FR  FS  25-Rob Clifford, 6·1, 193, JR 49-Terence Wiggins, 5-11, 192, JR  
235 251 275  FA FA JR  98-Gordon Laro, 6·3, 257, SR 86-Brian Saxton, 6-6, 256, SR  RCB  44-Daryl Porter, 5·9, 178, SO 2-Tony Ransome, 5-9, 173, JR  
257  SR  
so  

page 5 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October 7, 1994 
FIGHTING IRISH 
TEAMSTATS ND Opp PASSING Camp Att % Yds TD In! Lg Cengia 0 0 0-0 3 0 9 First Downs 110 104 Pow!us 63 109 57.8 916 12 4 47 
FIELD GOALS 0-29 3D-39 40-49 50+ TotT a tal yardage 2172 1647 Krug 2 2 100 15 1 0 8 Schroffner 2-3 2-2 o-o 0-0 4-5Offensive plays 342 356 Cengia 0-0 2-2 1-1 0-0 3-3
Avg. yards per play 6.35 4.63 RECEIVING No Yds Avg TD Lg Total yards per game 434.4 329.4 Mayes 21 353 16.8 5 46 
PUNTING No Avg Bk LgRushing yards 1241 569 Miller 16 267 16.7 2 47 Ford 20 40.7 0 61
Rushing plays 231 190 Stafford 10 129 12.9 3 23 Rushing yards per game 248.2 113.8 Zellars 7 78 11.1 1 21 
KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO LgPassing yards 931 1078 Mosley 4 43 10.8 0 15 Miller 11 22.2 0 55
Passes completed 65 104 
Zellars 5 11.8 0 23
Passes attempted 111 166 ALL-PURPOSE Rush Rec Ret Tot Avg Passes intercepted 4 4 Miller 33 267 282 582 116.4 
PUNT RETURNS No Avg TD LgPassing yards per game 186.2 215.6 Zellars 359 78 59 496 99.2 
Miller 8 4.8 0 12
Fumbles I fumbles lost 10/5 16/7 Kinder 395 0 0 395 79.0 Penalties I penalty yards 31/234 27/214 Mayes 0 353 0 353 70.6 
INTERCEPTIONS No Yds TO Lg
3rd down conversions 25-61 25-72 Becton 182 22 0 204 68.0 
Taylor 1 38 0 38 percentage 41.0 34.7 Mosley 81 43 22 146 29.2 
Davis 1 11 0 11 4th down conversions 3-5 5-6 Stafford 0 129 10 139 27.8 
Wooden 7 0 7
Farmer 64 15 39 118 23.6 
Sample 0 0 0
SCORE BY QUARTERS 2 3 4 T Edwards 107 9 0 116 23.2 Notre Dame 20 47 58 35 160 PAT PAT 
DEFENSE T A Tot FA PBU BK SacOpponents 13 30 10 44 97 SCORING TD x2 xt FG Sal Pis Goheen 27 11 38 1 3 0 3.0
Schroffner 0 0 19-19 4 0 31 
Magee 25 9 34 0 2 0 0.0
RUSHING Yds/Gm No Yds Avg TD Lg Mayes 5 0 0-0 0 0 30 Sample 21 9 30 0 0 0 2.0
Kinder 79.0 59 405 6.7 2 37 Becton 3 0 0-0 0 0 18 Taylor 17 7 24 0 4 1 0.0
Zellars 71.8 46 361 7.8 1 62 Stafford 3 0 0-0 0 0 18 
Gibson 15 8 23 1 0 0 1.0
Becton 60.7 35 182 5.2 2 37 Edwards 2 0 0-0 0 0 12 
Nau 15 8 23 0 0 0 3.0
Edwards 21.4 18 107 5.9 2 18 Kinder 2 0 0-0 0 0 12 
Grasmanis 12 11 23 0 0 0 2.5
Mosley 16.2 13 fit 6.2 0 18 Miller 2 0 0-0 0 0 12 Wynn 9 22 0 0 1.0
Farmer 12.8 16 64 4.0 0 22 Zellars 2 0 0-0 0 0 12 Wooden 3 21 5 0 0.0
0 44 


rut: STRATEGIST . . . 
Pas. HI. WI. YR 

NOTRE DAME 

LOU HOLTZ 
S 5-11 196 SR Dan Farrell WR 6-0 166 SR
Sept. 3 at NortlJ.western 42-15.W 
Rob Powlus QB 6-4 218 SO 

Sept. 10 MICHIGAN 24-26, L Lee Becton RB 6-0 191 SR
Ninth season at Notre Dame Emmett Mosley 5-9 SO
WR 179

Sept. 17 at Michigan State 21-20. w Mike Miller WR 5-7 160 SA
Career Record at ND: 81-20-1 QB 5-9 FA
Leon Blunt 173
Sept. 24 PURDUE 39-21, w 
Ivory Covington DB 5-11 160 FA 

Oct. 1 STANFORD 34-15. w Against Boston College: 2-1 LaRon Moore CB 5-9 193 SR 
Mike Perona QB 6-1 186 SO

Oct. 8 at Boston College 11:00 Highlights: Won the 1988 national Larry Wright ATH 5-11 190 FA Oct. 15 BYU QB 6-5 SO
Tom Krug

12:35 199
championship and finished second in 
Gus Ornstein QB 6-5 210 FAOct. 29 NAVY 12:35 Scott Cengia K 5-9 167 FAboth 1989 and 1993. Brian Ford p 6-4 193 so
Nov. 12 at Florida State TBA John Bishop CB 6-0 171 SO Nov. 19 AIR FORCE 1:35 
Paul Rogers QB 6-1 204 SO Allen Rossum DB 5·9 175 FANov. 26 5:00 Brian Perry s 6-1 197 so Mark McKenna QB 5-10 188 SO Brian Magee S 5-10 201 JR Anthony Swiney CB 5-11 180 SO Malcom Johnson WR 6-5 193 FA Bobby Taylor CB 6-3 201 JR Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 183 SA Charles Stafford WR 5-10 183 SA Randy Kinder RB 6-1 200 SOLAST TIME RECORDS 6·0 178 JR
Mark Monahan S Tracy Graham CB 5-10 190 SR Ken Barry RB 6-1 195 FR Brian Meter CB 5-7 152 SR

Boston College 41 ND leads 4-1 
Jarvis Edison DB 6-5 210 FR Robert Farmer RB 6-1 210 SO

Notre Dame 39 Last ND win 6-0 200 FR 
54-7, 1992 
Clement Stokes RB John Mclaughlin DB 6-4 225 FR Ray Zellars RB 5-11 221 SA Richard Rolle WR 6-1 159 FA
David Gordon (right), Last Boston College win 
Jeremy Sample LB 5-11 223 SR Travis Davis S 6-0 197 SA

booted a 41-yard field 41-39, 1993 6-2 191 SO
Sim Stokes CB Kinnon Tatum LB 6-1 209 SO

goal, the longest of his Streak 1 by BC 
Kevin Carretta LB 6·1 227 JR Joe Babey LB 6-2 225 JR

career, as time expired to At Alumni Stadium 
Alton Maiden LB 6-4 248 SR Bill Wagasy LB 6-2 228 JR

make Notre Dame's 21-The teams have never 6-2 221 SO
Marc Edwards RB Jeff Kilburg DE 6-4 258 SO

point fourth quarter come­met in Alumni Stadium. 
Bill Mitoulas LB 6-0 210 FA Renaldo Wynn LB 6-3 254 JAback a mute point. ND is 1-0 at BC. Lyron Cobbins LB 6-2 230 SO Greg Stec C 6-2 265 SA Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 245 SO Germaine Holden DE 6-4 252 SR Jim Kordas OG 6-5 269 SR Justin Goheen LB 6-2 228 SR Oliver Gibson NG 6-3 275 SR Steve Armbruster C 6-0 220 SR Rick Kaczenski c 6-4 251 so Jeremy Nau LB 6-4 226 SA Jon Bergman LB 6-1 220 SA Bert Berry LB 6-4 221 SO Jeff Kramer LB 6·3 215 FR

IRISH IRISH 
Mike McCullough OG 6-3 295 JR Mike O'Donovan LB 6-2 210 SR

80-0scar McBride, 6-5, 271, SR 
T 90-Brian Hamilton, 6-3, 288, SR Steve Misetic OG 6-5 280 JR

OFFENSE DEFENSE 
Brett Galley LB 5-9 1B6 SO
88-Leon Wallace. 6-3, 275, JR 

51-Melvin Dansby, 6-4, 245, SO Kurt Belisle LB 220
6-3 FA SA Paul Mickelbart OL 6-4 265 FR 
76-Jeremy Akers, 6-4, 296, JR 

NG 55-0liver Gibson, 6-2, 275, SR Mark Zataveski C 6-6 300 
69-David Quist, 6-4, 289, JR 

42-Aiton Maiden, 6-2, 259, JA David Quist 6-5 JR
OT 264 
Mike McGlinn OT 6-6 285 SR Herb Gibson OT 6-5 309 SA
73-Ryan Leahy, 6-3, 290, SR T 93-Paul Grasmanis, 6-3, 286, JR 

64-Steve Misetic, 6-4, 291, JR 

52-Germaine Holden, 6-3, 271, SA Ryan Leahy OG 6-4 285 SR 
Mike Doughty OT 6-8 280 SO
3-Ron Powlus, 6-2,217, SO OLB 58-Jeremy Nau, 6-4, 233, SR 

Will Lyell C 6-5 274 JR
11-Thomas Krug, 6-4,200, SO 

50-Bertrand Berry, 6-2, 228, SO Chris Clevenger OT 6-7 250 SO 
Jeremy Akers OT 6-5 286 SR

67-Mark Zataveski, 6-5,300, SR ILB 54-Justin Goheen, 6-3,235, SR 
Dusty Zeigler OG 6-6 264 JR

57-Rick Kaczenski, 6-4,251, SO 
49-Lyron Cobbins, 6-0, 234, SO Jon Spickelmier OL 6-4 250 FA 
Damian Peter OL 6-7 295 FR
77-Dusty Zeigler, 6-5,264, JR ILB 36-Jeremy Sample, 5-11,229, SR 

Oscar McBride TE 6-5 258 SR 

62-Mike McCullough, 6-3, 295, JA 
39-Kinnon Tatum, 5-11,214, SO John Lynch WR 6-2 188 JR 
Joe Carrol WR 5-10 182 SR

73-Mike Doughty, 6-7,296, SR 
OLB 48-Renaldo Wynn, 6-3, 244, JR Mike Denvir TE 6-3 231 SO 70-Mike McGlinn, 6-5, 297, SA 
Dan McConnell WA 5-10 178 JR Ben Herrig WR 5-10 168 JR

95-Corey Bennett, 6-1, 220, FR 
6-Mike Miller, 5-6, 159, SR 

CB 22-Shawn Wooden, 5-10, 190, SR Ben Foos DE 6-4 244 JR 
Cikai Champion WR 5-11 176 SO

83-Scott Sollmann, 5-8, 165, SO 8-lvory Covington, 5-11, 160, FA 
Leon Wallace TE 6-3 275 JR
1-Derrick Mayes, 6-0, 199, JR SS 37-Travis Davis, 6-0, 198, SR Ty Goode WR 6-1 173 FA 

Brian Hamilton DE 6-3 276 SA

24-Charles Stafford, 5-9, 187, SA 9-LaRon Moore, 5-9, 193, SR 
Darnell Smith DE 6-5 265 SO 

25-Randy Kinder, 6-0, 207, SO 
FS 17-Brian Magee, 5-9,204, JR Luke Petitgout TE 260 FA 
Paul Grasmanis NG 277 JR
5-Emmett Mosley, 5-9, 179, SO 

2-LeShane Saddler, 5-10, 197, SR Reggie Fleurima NG 2B6 SA 44-Mark Edwards, 6-Q, 228, SO 
CB 21-BobbyTaylor, 6-3,214, JR Corey Bennett 205 
Stefan Schroffner 164

31-Aobert Farmer, 6-1,210, SO 
15-AIIen Aossum, 5-9, 175, FA Corey Redder 
Pete Chryplewicz Cliff Stroud 


I ' ' 

grudge," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "I just don't believe a good Christian school would appreciate the coach talking about revenge." 
The players agree. 

"If you think of it as a huge motivating factor it can only take away from your prepara­tion," said Irish co-captain Justin Goheen. 
But it has to be there. No 

matter what they say. How can it not be there. The Irish were on top of the 
college football world, literally. Florida St. was still very fresh in the minds of many (perhaps too fresh). the No. 1 on top of Grace Hall was lit, Jim Flanigan was a Sports Illustrated cover boy, the national championship was theirs to lose. 
But that is exactly what hap­pened. They lost it. It was taken away quicker than they could say "41 yard field goal". 
"They took away something I that meant a lot," tight end ~ Oscar McBride said. "It was 
I 
something we worked hard for 
l I 
all year. It hurt." The Eagles were supposed to be like little brothers of the 

The mood was set the night before at the pep rally. The emotional outpouring that had manifested itself in the J.A.C.C. just a week earlier was now all but a memory. The crowd was dead, the team seemingly not ready for a showdown with a team that wanted to prove to everyone, especially them­selves, that they belonged on the same field with the Irish. 
The lethargy carried in to the next day. The student section went through the motions of cheering, but it was contrived. The players warmed up, but while they readied their bodies, their minds were elsewhere. 
Were they looking back on the Florida St. game. forward to the Florida St. rematch, or just plain not looking any­where. 
Whatever the case, Boston College capitalized from the start. 
They came out with the emo­tion. 
"At times I sensed Boston College was just playing harder than we were," said Lee Becton. 'They were emotional. You could sense it." 
Glenn Foley orchestrated last year's upset of Notre Dame. 
Even if you didn't sense it, you could see it. 
They blocked a field goal. They kicked a field goal. They began to believe. 
Glenn Foley, in all his arro­gant splendor. was masterful. Not only did he bend the "bend, but don't break defense" of the Irish, he broke it. 
Darnell Campbell made Notre Dame defenders think that they were back on the 1992 practice field trying to slow down Jerome Bettis. To no avail. 
Mike Mamula covered side­line to sideline better than John Dockery could ever hope to. 
Pete Mitchell was truly "Top Gun". "Maverick" mangled the Irish pass defense with 13 catches. including two touch­down grabs. 
And then there was David Gordon. He was a goat earlier in the year against Northwestern. He was ridiculed by Eagle fans. until, as it is known in Boston, "the kick". 
Somewhat miraculously, Boston College had driven from the 25 yard line to give Gordon a slight chance. 

Jeremy Sample's phantom 15 yard penalty, Pete Bereich's infamous drepped interception, and the porous Irish secondary mattered little now. It all came down to Gordon's previously unreliable foot. 
The snap, the hold, the kick. It's up, it's good! It's good? Touchdown Jesus was never so cruel. "I just stood there in disbe­lief," Goheen said. But it was real. Notre Dame's dream was over. It must be there. 
Retribution. Retaliation. Requital. 
"To say it isn't in the back of our minds would be ludri­crous," McBride said. "We have to take it to the field and play like we need to." 
The obvious model as to how to use revenge positively is the way Boston College utilized it last year. 
They were prepared, physi­cally, and more important, mentally. They were hungry. 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
The Irish may not need any lessons though. They've been there before, namely, Stanford Stadium in 1991 and 1993. 
On both occasion, Notre Dame entered the game having lost to the Cardinal the previous years. Both times, the Irish got their due revenge. In a big way. 
Boston College may be better than those Stanford teams and Notre Dame may not be as good as it was, but the revenge quo­tient was never as great as it now. 
Not only were the national championship hopes of the Irish burst. so were their egos. And that can never be changed, no matter the outcome tomorrow. 
"There's no two ways about it," McBride said. "We can't take it back." 
But it is there. 
Revenge. 
"You can't go into the game without thinking about it," said Goheen. "It's in the back of ev­erybody minds." 
Tomorrow, it will be front and center. 

I 
I 
I ATTENTION ALL WING LOVERS! 
I 
I I I I 
Iffifi~ 
Weeki
I 
I 
~~If~~IID Specia s 
TQVQ 9~ Monday Night ~BYe wn~ 

& discounted beverages 
Thursday NightFeast for Four 


$ll7f1ID~ 
50 WingsCurly Fries

Come out and watch the &pitcher of favorite 
B.C. game at 11 :oo a.m.! beverage 


AsK ABOUT OuR WALL OF FLAME 
' ­
University Center 6502 N. Grape Rd. Phone 273-0088 

page 7 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October 7, 1994 



F
rom the October 3rd issue of Boston College's student news­paper The Heights: 
"Let's get something out of the way before I start this highly anticipated preview of this Saturday's clash with Notre Dame's Fightin' Irish. I hate Notre Dame. I hated them long before I came to B. C. and I'll hate them long after I graduate." -Ching Wang 
While this sentiment may now hold true for many Eagle fans, it wasn't always that way. 
After Doug Flutie and his Heisman Trophy graduated from the Heights with Eagles claiming a No. 4 national rank­ing and a Cotton Bowl thrashing of the Houston Cougars in the 1984 season, the Boston College football program slowly degenerated to the subpar medi-. ocrity in which most average Division I programs wallow. 
Most college football aficionados in Boston were forced to divide their alle­giance in order satisfy their needs as fans. 
On the one hand, they cheered pri­marily for B.C. out of hometown loyalty and pride. But on the other, Bostonians knew that in reality the Eagles were not a legitimate contender for Bowl Game prowess, nevermind a national champi­onship. 
So as the seasons waned onward, Eagle fans inevitably turned their eyes to the Irish, who were consistently win­ning games and vying for the coveted No. 1 ranking. 
And why shouldn't they have rooted for the Irish? Like Boston College, Notre Dame takes pride in its strong commitment to academic excellence, its high standards for athletics, and its long-standing, deeply rooted Catholic tradition. Besides, what town in America has more reason to cheer for a team nicknamed the "Fightin' Irish" than Boston? 
Tom Coughlin took over the helm on Chestnut Hill in 1991 and the football climate on the Heights began to change. Highly touted recruits signed on, the schedule improved drastically, and a winning attitude emerged from what had been a somewhat dormant football program. 
In only two seasons the Eagles sky­
Boston College grounded Notre Dame'? attack last year, sacking Kevin McDougal (top) and flipping Oscar McBride (below). 
Observer photos/Jake Peters 
they came to South Bend to face the eighth ranked Irish. 
"Everything about Notre Dame-the damn fight song, Leprechaun Lou, the contract with Notre Dame Broadcasting Network, and especially the holier than thou attitude Golden Domers spew forth-irritates me more than anything else on God's green earth." -Ching Wang 
What was left of Eagles fans' Irish­envy transformed quickly to enmity with the fateful fake punt in the third quarter which turned an almost certainly in­surmountable lead into an unequivocal blowout. • 
Not only did the Irish take away the Boston College claim to legitimacy in the rankings with the 54-7 trouncing, but they embarrassed the Eagles in the 

Redemption took but one year. Boston College returned to Notre Dame Stadium last November and with David Gordon's last minute 41-yard field goal the Eagles stole Notre Dame's national championship hopes and branded Irish fans with a tormenting, unforgettable vision of having their dreams dashed. 
To this day, mentioning one's status as a Notre Dame student in Boston almost always results in some form of mockery, insult, or derision in reference to the Eagle upset. 
It was the greatest achievement of the year in Boston athletics, professional or amateur. It was the number one story, the highlight of all highlights, and the ultimate catalyst of the now intense rivalry between the previously allied football teams of Boston College and Notre Dame. 
every week to see the South Benders in pain."-Sports Editor Ed McLaughlin 
Lines have now been drawn in this rivalry-either die-hard Eagle or die­hard Irish, nothing in between. The bit­terness of Eagle fans spawned by "Head Troll Lou Holtz's" running up of the score two years ago has not yet dissipat­ed. The seething pain of Irish fans, caused by the emblazoned memory of championship dreams swept away by a weak, warped, and wobbly kick, is inescapable. 
Boston College is now preparing for the biggest sporting event the city has hosted in quite some time. It added 12,000 seats to its 32,000 seat stadium this year, and the visit by Notre Dame was unarguably one of the most signifi­cant motivators in this expansion. 
The Eagles also changed their ticket policy this season by ceasing the sale of individual game tickets in favor of sea­son tickets. Even though Syracuse is the only other big game to be played on Chestnut Hill this season, they sold out before the season opened. Undoubtedly, the spectacle between Notre Dame and Boston College this weekend is much more than just "a big game" for Boston College. However, the degree of opti­mism held by those concerned varies greatly. 
"Everyone's looking forward to it, no matter what the outcome," Boston College student Noel O'Connor said. "But I think the outlook for the game is pretty pessimistic, at least for me." 
And it very well should be pessimistic. Irish eyes are not smiling upon the Eagles on this road trip. Notre Dame should march into Alumni Stadium on Chestnut Hill with a head of steam and they should keep on marching all over the unranked Eagles until its heart is content. 
But since when in this series has 'should' held any weight? 
The Eagles and Irish have met two years in a row and battled to unpre­dictable finishes. After this weekend, there will be nine more match-ups. 
Beyond that, nothing can be said for certain. 



Friday, October 7, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 

/1'1 lime ltJ call ytJUr Papal • 2. 1-1177 

Papa Predicts:_.,.....,...... 
•r~-,~~
ftj ,i, r c~ 


•JOCK miP 
Hitler and Zeus ready for the epic battle that shouldn't be 
A!
olf Hitler coaches for Boston whatsoever," Holtz responded. College. My mind is set, this But maybe Dan is onto something. can be the only logical conclu-Forget about Hitler. This has a Clash of ion. Why else would such the Titans feel. Everyone loved the hatred emanate from South Bend as the movie, how about a remake'? Irish face Boston College in Chestnut Ron Powlus will fly Pegasus into Hill'? Alumni Stadium, land on the B.C. side-
Old Adolf must have risen from the ,._______J lines, pull the head of Medusa from a grave and will be roaming the sidelines George sack and turn the Boston College student with hopes of keeping Lou Holtz (a.k.a. Dohrmann body and players into stone. Ron then Gen. Dwight Eisenhower) and his band Sports Editor gets his choice of Eagle cheerleaders (is 
of Fighting Irish (Allies) from marching into Boston and taking back their pride. 
The Irish hope many a Sammy Adams will be sipped Saturday eve and Irish men will kiss girls from the USO (Saint Mary's) all over Harvard Square. A win over the hated Eagles is the goal. Not only a win, but a thrashing -41-14 sounds good, 42-0 sounds better. Make them pay. 
But I've yet to see why this game carries such importance. Boston College is 1-2, and since last check not a contender for the national title, let alone the Big East title. They start a gun-shy, first-year quarterback and have a coach (not Hitler) who couldn't hold on to the job at Akron. 
Yet this game is larger the Green Monster in Boston. You couldn't buy a ticket if your last name was DeBartolo and rumor has it Baron Hilton is still searching for a hotel room. 
The Northeast is on a pause for the weekend. 
The Irish are coming. The Irish are coming. 
Even Dan Henning, B.C's my-bags-are-still­packed coach is hyping this matchup. His ref­erences aren't to one of the great wars, but from the old school. .. Mythology for $300, Alex. 
"(Playing Notre Dame) takes on mythical pro­portions," Henning said. "This is like playing Zeus. This is the top dog in the mythology hierarchy. Maybe Lou is Zeus." 
Sorry Dan, that will cost you. What was your wager'? Your intelligence'? 
"What was he trying to say, I have no idea 

i I i 
f 
i t:
I: 
t I 
I I 
otre Dame ;1oston College 

Have brunch with 
Kickoffat 11......... 

r -7fa;;n-;; I;;ci:i -, r -7J;tr;iii;e"1ilti -, r
HOURS: 

I 1-14" Large I I 1-16" Extr~ Large I I 
Mmday-Thursday 11 :00 am. -1:00 am. 

I 1Topping Pizza I I Two Toppmgs I I 
I wi!~d2 ~:e~~~:icck~ke I I s950 I I
Friday &Saturday 11 :00 am. -3:00 am. 

I I I I I 
Sunday Noon -1:00 am. 

I s10~-0 I I -I I 
that a bonus'?) to fly with into the sunset. This is quality stuff. Move over Rockne. 
Minus !1ying horses or the presence of the Fuhrer, this game shouldn't mean much. Yet Irish fans are like the cavalry hunting down Geronimo. Out for blood or justice, pick any Steven Seagal movie you like. 
But in truth, Boston College/Notre Dame shouldn't be more than one lowly team enjoying the payoff from playing a big market team with TV ties. Boston should get on with their lives and enjoy a fall without a lowly baseball team. And, most importantly, Irish faithful should look at themselves instead of B.C. for last year's em­barrassment. 
If you play like a dog for three quarters, show­case a sponge defense, and let David (Flash.. .Ahhhhh... He saved every one of us) Gordon beat you, then you have no business playing for the top spot in the polls. 
The only vendetta floating in ethanol-filled South Bend should be with the Irish players. 
What if, what if. 
Those are the words that ring in the heads of the Irish players and a hurt that will probably never go away. Beating B.C. 100-0 won't do it. Dumping Gordon into Boston Harbor like a sack of tea isn't the answer. 
Now if the Irish could resurrect Hitler and beat him up. Then there's reason to celebrate. If that occurs. save me a Sammy. 


TEAM RECORD 
1. Florida (39) 4-0-0
~ 
2. Nebraska (13) 5-0-0 
3. Florida St. ( 4) 4-0-0
v:­
4. Penn St. (2) 5-0-0 5. Colorado(3) 4-0-0 6. Arizona (1) 4-0-0 7. Michigan 3-1-0 
8. Notre Dame 4-1-0 9. Auburn 5-0-0 
10. Texas A&M 4-0-0 11. Alabama 5-0-0 12. Washington 3-1-0 13. Miami 3-1-0 
14. North Carolina 3-1-0 15. Texas 3-1-0 16. Oklahoma 3-1-0 
17. 
Ohio State 4-1-0 

18. 
N. Carolina St. 4-0-0 19. Kansas 3-0-0 


20. Virginia Tech 4-1-0 21. Syracuse 4-1-0 
22. Washington St. 3-1-0 
. Colorado St. 5-0-0 2-2-0 4-0-0 
• SPORTS EXTRA STAFF EDITOR: George Dohrmann MANAGING EDTIOR: Jason Kelly ASSOCIATE EDITOR: Mike Norbut 
CONTRIBUTORS: Tim Sherman, Andy Cabiness GRAPHIC DESIGN: Chris Mullins 
~ ? 
~ ~
m
c/~K~'\~ 

-7ai:7J;;i I;;ci:i -, r --o';'iF'r;;ge--, (9:00p.m. until closing) I I O~ne Toppginu I 1-14" Large I I I
65 

1Topping Pizza I I TW< 74" L~rge I
s 
I I One Toppmg I 

59 
~ I I $11 o: I 
POINTS 
1521 1449 1401 1380 1355 1202 1160 1085 1042 957 944 932 852 640 614 564 553 509 334 315 262 261 247 135 82 
PREV­IOUS 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 18 16 21 20 22 23 14 
17 24 15 
CJM 

Additional Toppings 95c each. Not valid with any other COIIJIUfl. I I Mditional Toppinos $125 each. Not VBiid with 1111'/ other coupon. I LAdditiona/ Toppinos 95C each. Not valid with any other coupon. I I Additi1N18/ Toppings 95C each. Not valid with any other coupon.
L 

-------~ ~-------~ -------~ ~-------~ 
......_,...,.......,..,....,...,...,..,...,..,...,..,..,...........,..,....._,....,-:-:-.-.-r-t-,--c-c-,--,---~~ -,,-,-. . ,, ,....,....,.....,...,.....,.........,....,..,....,..,..,....,........,...,...,........,.-,-_...--..,...-,--;-:----,,--,,,--;,..-;,.--:-, --,-,---­
I'' t'. I
I I 1 • • • • • • I I 1 • I 1 1', I 1 o I o o I I. 
. . . .I
. ''' ' 
Friday, October 7, 1994 The Observer•WEEKEND page 11 
I
The beat goes on with The Loft series I 

"Born to Quit'' Johann's Face Records, 1994 
By CHACHI SOSTAK a punk rock feel, Special to The Observer one that will surely move those in atten­
Okay, here it is. Tonight at 9pm, the dance. rock and roll caravan, otherwise known as the Loft series, will be pre­"We have always senting another installment of indepen­loved punk rock, dent music in the form of the Smoking and what we are Popes, with campus phenoms, Sweep doing is staying true the Leg Johnny opening. to our roots, while 
The LaFortune Ballroom is again the attempting to throw scene for this second concert, which that already-said has been deemed as an effort by WVFI love song in there. and SUB to bring some of the newest After all we live in a acts making a buzz across the nation to postmodern world Notre Dame. Following in the last act, and we long to be Cub's footsteps, the Smoking Popes are the pop intertextual no exception, being hailed by many as punk band," said the top independ!Jl?J~RNl~.m ..Ch~.<:ago. . Caterer. 
In fact, Notre Dame is the first stop on the Popes two-month tour across And speaking of the United States. They will headline being moved, their many of the top venues nationwide. live shows are in­The first show, always exciting for any credible. The Popes band, is being looked upon as a "ten­have opened for sion breaker" and a "free-for-all" by Green Day in Josh Caterer, lead singer. Chicago, as well as 
"Heading out on a long tour is always headlined Chicago's exciting, and the first show is many famed Metro plenty times the most special. The raw ener­of times -always gy along with expectations always putting on an in­bring out the best. We're looking for­tense live concert. ward to playing Notre Dame, and "They are by far showing the students what's musically the best in-happening 90 miles away," said dependent draw in Campus band Sweep the Leg Johnny will play at The Loft this Caterer. Chicago, and their weekend as part of The Loft series. 
"The Chicago scene is so exciting shows are always a dollars to see them in Chicago. To seeright now, and being the youthful vet­joyous occasion in which folks dance, what might be the next Green Day for aerans of the nouveaux pop-punk thing slam prance, sing along, and genuinely 
buck is incomprehensible...and gee
is wild," he said. walk out of the club longing to see the whiz, do not forget who's opening:"Raw energy" describes the Popes band again," claimed Joe Shanahan, Sweep the Leg Johnny ...the next Indiemusic quite well. Their new CD, enti­owner of Metro. 
as Loft rock giants." 

tled "Born to Quit" out on Johann's Hence, the series rolls Without being too repetitive, here isFace Records, captures their style: one onward, do not allow yourself to be the crux folks: Come to see a band thatthat flows from pop-punk roots into a rolled over. 
has opened for Green Day. Come see aworld of exceptional vocal melodies band that headlines Metro in Chicago. 
centering upon themes of lost love, Raves surrounding the first Loft con­love, love, and love. cert were abundant: "The intimacy of Come see a band that has the mentalIf you will, the Smoking Popes sound the Ballroom serves as a perfect means capacity to ironically juxtapose two' dif­like an ironic juxtaposition of Sha-na­of connection between the artist and ferent styles of music, and do it with
na/"Earth Angel" vocals engulfed by listener/spectator," exclaimed Ted 
grace and ergonomics. 

Green Day punk rock. "I just sing Liebler of WVFI. 
Come see a band that will make youabout what is common to everyone, Amanda Digirolamo, head of the SUB dance, both with intensity and withwhile still being personal to myself and side of the series, echoed the claim, utter glee.
my own emotions," explained Caterer "We are giving the student body a about his lyrics. chance to feel up close and personal 
Or just come to wish them good luck
But the Popes are not all about heart­with some of the best bands anywhere. 
on the rest of their tour. Notre Dame,break. In fact, their music speaks a The Loft provides a chance for people here are the Smoking Popes. Notremuch different tone. Powerful guitar to see a band in their own backyard for Dame, here is a music scene.
chords and fast-paced drums allow for one dollar, whereas it would cost ten 


•"The Passionate Observer" photograph of Carl Van Veehten Hallmark at O'Shaughnessy East Galleries 1-111 

-


-
Notre Dame 
& 

Saint Mary's Guide to the Weekend 
'I I I I I • 

• •' I I •, •, I I I I • o It It I I I I (I I I I I 1' 1 1 • '' • • •, • • • I o I I 1 l 1 o I, o I I I o I I 1 o 1, o, • 1 t, 
Friday, October 7, 1994

page 12 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 

The best birthday present ever: One more year 
All one has to do to celebrate overdrive. trying to keep me since Death will liberate your a 69th birthday is to live long alive. I may have had fears from this darkling plain, where 
enough. I should know, because that I was ceasing to be; howev­ignorant armies clash by night? it's my turn to be the birthday er, that brave little .heart of If so, you should be grateful boy, and I'm 69 today. 
mine would not let me go into that you are not like the rest of 
Recently, undergoing ill that good night. It fought like a men who fear Brother Death, health, I kept telling myself: "Do strong swimmer to save me waiting to mow them down as not go gentle into that good from droWning. It touched me the Grim Reaper. 
night/ Rage, rage, against the deeply· to find out what a hero At 69, I don't fear him dying ofthe light. " the heart is. It's not in the least enough to take him seriously.
hundred years?» I wouldn't into-or as an octogenarian
Afterwards, when people a traitor, though I betray the If I did, I would live more care­
want to live to be like who couldn't resist growing up heart every time I light a ciga­fully. I trust that when the time 
asked me how I sidestepped Methusaleh, when he was final­and growing old-perhaps I comes for me to shuffie off this Brother Death, I said: "The ly perceived to be no longer lov­will be at peace with the idea of rette. 
woods are lovely, dark and If I have miles to go before I mortal coil, I will meet Brother
able. At 69, bad breath alone giving up the ghost and advanc­
deep/But I have promises to sleep, it's because, as Dag Death as a friend meets a
could have kept his dance cal­ing to a new frontier where all 
Hammarskjold wrote, "The friend, and recognize him as
keep/And miles to go before I endar blank. is grace, the same as her, but 
sleep." People, being curious, longest journey/ Is the journey God's efficient servant, tamed
In heaven I expect to know a even more so. Until then, I will 

wanted to know: "How many inwards/ Of him who has cho­and domesticated by Christ at
greater love than I have known. continue to rage against the 
miles, and in which direction, sen his destiny." the Resurrection. 
But at 69, when I've scarcely dying of the light. 
and what kind of promises, and finished singing old I'd like to take time out to Hammarskjold also left us this As Woody Allen said, "It's not 
to whom were they made?" reminder: "What gives life its that I'm afraid to die. I just
September's song, I feel that offer the faithful heart that 
All I can answer is that I have heaven can wait. I am not yet beats in my breast an apology. value you can find-and lose. don't want to be there when it love in my heart for prayer ready to meet my Savior face to Four times in the last 17 But never possess. This holds happens. On the plus side, 
partners whom I haven't met years-the last time, three true above all for the 'Truth death is one of the few things
face. His sacramental universe about Life."' that can be done as easily asyet. With God's help, I can be still holds me enthralled. His weeks ago, on a Saturday night, 
all things to children of the less­As a Catholic, are you scan­lying down." 
presence in the Eucharist is as I have suffered from pulmonary dalized by anything I have writ­I'm happy to be celebrating
er gods, whom I have held at near to Him as I want Him to edema, I thought my tired tick­arm's length until now. Ifneed­come, until I have cleaned up er was trying to take a powder. ten here? As a Catholic, do you my 69th birthday. Ifl blew out ed, I would consider it an honor my act as a Catholic. The truth is that it went into 
to look forward to dying, that many candles on a cake, it to lay down my life for friends I 
u're old of ourse would kill me.
As a priest, I have promises to 
have known all my life, as an keep to Him, to prove my fideli­

example to them of the greater ty. That is why I pray He will 
love that no one can have than 

allow me miles to go before I this. sleep. I hope that as His ser­
Time and tide wait for no vant that He hasn't finished 
man. After three-score-and-ten, with me yet.
I will be living, as the Bible 
Are priests supposed to be 
says, on borrowed time. If I 
half in love with easeful death? 
should live to be as old as the 
"Ripeness"-meaning readi­
patriarchs, I would still expect 
ness-"is all," wrote 
to have leftover love to give 
Shakespeare. Death is the 
away, when Mr. Death comes 
great adventure we shall 
calling to take me home. 
embark on after we have 
Did Methusaleh live 900 reached the place where we 
years? According to Genesis, he have no more miles to go before 
was 969 when he died. On the we sleep.
broadway stage, George 
Even Peter Pan, the boy who 
Gershwin in Porgy and Bess didn't want to grow up, looked 
wanted to know: "Who calls 
forward to Death as a great

that livin '/When no girl won't adventure. As the septuage­
give in/To no man who's nine 
narian I am rapidly turning 

Michael P. Esposito, Jr. 
Executive Vice President of 
The Chase Manhattan Bank, N .A. 
and Alumnus of 
The University of Notre Dame 
will be hosting a reception on 
-
October 12, 1994 at the University Club, Main Lounge from 6 .. 8 p.m. to discuss career opportunities at Chase. 
t' 
,J 
I 

'I 
Friday, October 7, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Keenan-Stanford fight neighborhood battle 
By MICHAEL DAY 
Sports Writer 
Last week's 6-2 victory over Off Campus turned out to be a good news-bad news scenerio for the Keenan Interhall foot­ball team. The good news is that they jumped up four places to No. 1 in the Power Poll. However, the bad news is that they lost starting quarterback Matt Rechner for what looks to be. the remainder of the season. 
Marc Bessette has been given the starting quarterback nod for this Sunday's showdown with No. 5 ranked Stanford. Despite the loss of Rechner and the inexperience of Bessette, Keenan is confident that they will be able to retain their top ranking with a victory over the Studs. 
"We've concentrated on our of­fense all week in practice, and I'm sure we'll be fme," captain Rob Rolf said. "As long as we keep the intensity level up, it'll probably come down to which team has the ball last." 
Last weekend, it was Stanford who held the top ranking going into their matchup with defend­ing champion Morrissey. In a rematch of last year's title game, the Manor once again prevailed, this time by the score of 15-7. 
Stanford does not expect a similar outcome this weekend, as Sunday will mark the return of starting linebacker and of­fensive tackle Chad Smock. Smock wa~ unavailable for last week's game, and according to starting running back Chris Pollina, it was a major setback for the Studs. 
"Without Chad, the intensity just wasn't there against Morrisey," Pollina said. "He is such an emotional leader for this team, and I'm sure that it (Smock's presence) will help us turn things around this week­end." 
Grace vs. Morrissey 
Who says opposites don't at­tract? The second game at Stepan Field on Sunday can be best described as two teams going in entirely different di­rections. 
After upsetting top-ranked Standford 15-7 last Sunday, de­fending champion Morrissey climbed to No. 4 in the Power Poll. Grace, ranked last in this week's poll, fell to rival Planner 14-0 on Sunday and has gone nearly three years without an Interhall football victory. 
Although some may view this as a mismatch on paper, Morrsisey certainly is not tak­ing anything for granted this weekend. 
"Anyone can beat anybody on a given day," captain A velino Verceles said. "Although skill is very much involved, interhall football is a game of chance. Whoever has the be·st drives and doesn't turn the ball over will win the game." 
Morrissey is not without their share of problems. Star tail­back John Getz will not play against Grace. In addition, top offensive lineman Steve Walter is slowed by a broken finger, and his status for the game is still uncertain. 

On the other side of the coin, Grace's chief concern is their struggling offensive line. Quarterback Perez faced all kinds of pressure against Planner and was sacked four times and intercepted twice. Nagging injuries and a lack of depth on the line have pre­vented Grace from establishing any continuity on offense. 
Dillon vs. Off Campus 
Coming off a bye week, Dillon has had two weeks to ponder a way to move the ball against the intimidating Off Campus de­fense. And with key injuries on offense, Dillon has also used the time to lick their wounds and recover from a tough opening weekend loss. 
Inexperienced Stefan Molina earns the starting nod at quar­terback on Sunday but may be slowed by an injury. And if things couldn't get worse, start­ing center Ashley Fluhme may not play this weekend due to a back injury. 
"The injuries are a chief con­cern, especially going into a tough game against Off Campus," captain Zach Budzichowski said. "But we've worked hard on our fundamen­tals the past two weeks, so ex­pect to see better blocking and a stronger running game." 
Dillon's struggling offense may play into the hands of the strength of the Off Campus team-the defense. The unit limited Keenan to a paltry 43 total yards and just two first downs in last weekend's game. If the defense can put forth anywhere near the effort they did last Sunday. it could trans­late into a long day for the Dillon offense. 
"Hopefully, what we worked on in practice will come out in the game on Sunday," Budzichowski said. "To have any chance of winning, we must be able to run the ball ef­fectively. Cutting down on turnovers and penalties is also a must against Off Campus." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  I NEED 1 NAVY G.A.I Call Sean  Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call  AIR FORCE TICKETS:  
.____N_O_T_IC_E_s_ __.l  L-1_F_O_R_RE_N_T_ __.  HOME GAMES. 272-7233. I NEED BYU GA'S  @1432. Need 6 BYU GA's, Pairs OK, Pis  Sue at 277-8995 Need three GAs for any home  I Need 2 BYU GA'S. Have AIR FORCE tickets to deal. MattX3744  
IIIIIATIENTION SOPHO­ THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  CALL JEFF @ 277-8250  Help, 273-6463, Maria  game. Call Matt at 289-2710  
MORESIIIII  NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED  baaahh  ND v FSU. Have 13 tickets 34-40  
The Class of '97 Service Project will  BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  I need 3 G.a>'s to B.Y.U. If u  Patty really needs 2 BC tix  yd line. Call407-365-0665  
be kicking off the year with a house  NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  can help, call Ron at x1736  call her at 4072  I need Navy GA's. Paul at X2681  evenings.  
painting project on Sunday, 10/9. It  OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­ 
will be the first of many projects ·with tlle'T<.t6i'!he'llsi Neighba~·  773-2034  Desperate for BYU GA Ted@4-3485 •  Sale: Studs. All Remaining Games Call Tom at 2042  I NEED 2 BYU GA's! Call Julie @277-4612  PERSONAL  
Help us get off to a great start and  BEAUTIFUL ROOMS W/PRIVATE  
help us help others. Talk to your  BATHS FOR RENT FOR FOOT­ I need one Air Force GA or student  HATE DOING LAUNDRY??? Sell  NY Alum needs 1-4 tickets for BYU  Need ride to Iowa 4 fall break  
Sophomore Class Council Dorm  BALL WKNDS. 3 MI. FROM CAM­ ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please  us your BC TICKETS and we'll do  game. Call1-800-666-4949  x-4333Jim  
Rep, or call Brian at x1058. Thanks  PUS. (219) 277-8340.  call X3822. Thanks!  it for you!! Call x2984 for some cash  ext. 220. Ask for Ann Hiens  
-lrust us...  and some clean clothes!!  
Fully furnished clean 2 bedroom  NEED 4 Air Force G.A.'s. Will  BC GAS FOR SALE  SEINFEST '9411  
.......YOU WILL HAVE FUN!""""  5 rooms total, 1 1/2 block south of  TRADE 4 FLA. ST. G.A.'s or other  NEED 5 BYU GA'S -CALL Joe @  GREG 277-7475  1ST ANNUAL SUB COMEDY TAL·  
St. Joe Med Center  home game G.A.'s. Joe x1748.  x2765  ENTSHOWI  
USED BOOKS & CLIFF'S NOTES  safe quiet neighborhood  NEED GA'S FOR BYU AND AIR  WATCH FOR SIGNUPS FOR  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  $450 plus deposit. Utilities, cable,  HELP! I need 4 Navy tickets-stud.  NEED 2-4 BYU GA'S OR STUD.  FORCE, NICK X4073  AUDITIONS AT DINING HALLS  
ND Ave & Howard M-Sa/10-6  air and trash included  and GA. Call Brian at x.2034.  TIX. CALL TONY. X4532  10/11-1311 -YOU COULD BE THE  
Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store  Private entrance  MY MOM NEEDS 2 AIR FORCE &  NEXT JERRY SEINFELD!!  
call 233-8327 or see at 224 North  Needed: one BYU ticket.  I NEED 8 (YES, 8) BYU GA's  1 FSU GA -KAREN 4290  
Downtown book wholesaler seeks  St. Peter St.  Please call634-1439  CALL AMY X2652  MARGERITASII!I  
warehouse workers Flexible hours  Ideal for grad student or prof.  NEED 4 FSU TIX-RICH UNCLE  Hey Gwynne!  
& wkend work available 232-8500  References required  I NEED 2 BYU GAs  Rooms for rent. BYU & Navy  WILL PAY BIG$$$ CHRIS X3095  NICE TONGUE ACTIONII!  
X22 ask for Bryan  CALL McKENNA 271-2956  games. Call 255-9005 for more  love, B.H.  
Disco ••• Disco Disco  FOR SALE  NEED BYU TIXI  information.  NEED 1 BYU Tick Stud orGA  
Italian Club Dance. Open to all!!!!!!  2-4 GA's & 2 Stud.  Please Call Darryl @4243  WHAT ARE YOU DOING  
Saturday 9:00-1:30, only $1  '71 M.G. MIDGETI RED CON­ call LINDI 284-5151  BLIND MAN DYING TO HEAR BYU  TONIGHT? NO PLANS?  
LaFortune Ballroom  VERTIBLE. SHARP, RUNS GOOD.  GAME IN PERSON. WILL BUY  Help!I I need Tix for BYUII  COME TO THE TOGA PARTY,  
ILOST & FOUND I  $1,700. CALL 277-3239. 85 SAAB 900 Turbo SPG  Desperately need 4 BYU GA's Call Megan at 4072  STUO/GA BYU TIX OR TRADE FOR AF OR NAVY GAs. 216-721­8163  Monica-X2995 $$$$$$$$  sponsored by the SMC Class of 96, at SMC DINING HALL between 9-12am. Tickets will be  
Black w/Tan int., sunroof, 72K mi.,  I NEED 3 AF GAs-call Sam x4872  Need Navy GA's  sold at the door for $4/person.  
FOUND a pen on Sept. 23. Call  very clean, new stereo, $4500  NEED G.A. TIX TO ND VS BYU.  Call Marc@ 233-4008  There will be plenty of food &  
Lisa 289-8227  631-0141,277-5712 Eve.  PARENTS HATE YOU?  CALL JOE @287-4561 BEFORE  $$$$$$$$$$  music for everyone. So don't hesi­ 
SELL ME THEIR NAVY TIXII  11P.M.  tate to come, it will be a GREAT  
LOST STUDENT I.D. NEAR GATE  Moving -Must Sell  SERIOUS CASH!!  TIME!I  
15 ON SAT. 10/1. REWARD. CALL  one double toulon bed/couch  CALL JERRY AT 3024  STUDTIX­ HELP$$$$1 I need 2 GAs & 1 stud  
287-4546. THANK YOU.  one small kitchen table with 2  LAST 3 HOME GAMES  ticket for BYU -parents & sis  
chairs  Need 4 BYU tickets. Student or  CALL 271-1249 WITH OFFER  coming. For lots of $$$$$$, call  We're Open  
WANTED  excellent condition best offer -call heather 233-3358  GA. Please call Joe at 4 x 4485.  2 FSU GA's  272-92031  Early, Late, & Weekendslll 0¢0 THE COPY SHOP 000  -­ 
I NEED 8 TICKETS TO BYU  Best Offer  Need 2 BYU GA's....Call Phil at  LaFortune Student Center  
Deliver Birthday Cakes  Two tickets to see "The Who's  STUDENT OR GA'S CALL  Kevin x1955  x3520 ·  Phone 631-COPY  
:30 min /day  Tommy", October 8 in Chicago.  MEGHAN X4541  
flexible hours, must have own car  If interested call Ana@4-1532.  SUPPORT GROUP FOR RAPE  
call272-15061eave message  I NEED NAVY GA'S  WANTED  NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR  SURVIVORS Open to Notre Dame  
$$$$  TICKETS  MARKX1640  Two GA Tickets to the BYU Game  GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON  & St Mary's Students; HELD ON CAMPUS; FREE; CONFIDENTIAL  
NEED BYU GAS!  Need 3 BYU GA's &  Call ASAP with your  SEE HIS 1ST NO GAME.  Sponsored by Sex Offense  
WILL PAY BIG$  WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU  3NAVYGA's  tickets! 4-2617  -call Mike at 4-1177  Services 234-0061 ext. 1308  
CALL 1-8317  TICKETS. CALL  call4-2010  
$$$  800-922-2327 JANET.  Established campus band with  
SELL ME YOUR AIR FORCE TIXS  Need 2-3 Airforce GAs. Leslie 273­ NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR  guaranteed gigs needs lead gui­ 
PIZZA MAKER -PART TIME ­ I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.  CALL-BRENDAN AT 277-6315  9303  GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM  tarist. Call Pick 277-2375  
EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD  272-6551  HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON  
MONEY.  PLEASE!! I NEED TWO AIR  I need 2 GAs for Navy. Please call  SEE HIS 1ST ND GAME.  BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC  
CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW  FORCE GA'S PARENTS COMING  Kristine at 4-3806. Thank you  -call Mike at 4-1177  
YORK  STUDENT AND GAS NEEDED  FROM FLAil #3601  VERY MUCH!  ANYBODY INTERSTED IN WISH­ 
257-1100.  FOR BYU AND GAS FOR AF.  NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR  ING DAVID GORDON(B.C. KICK·  
PLEASE! CALL JEANNE AT  ########################  PLEASE, I NEED 3 BYU GA's  GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM  ER GOOD LUCK, GIVE HIM A  
VOLUNTEERS ARE NEEDED AT  X2478.  3 TICKETS (GA OR STU.) FOR  Call Chris @x1527  HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON  CALL AT 617-558-8948. ASK FOR  
THE EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVEL­ BYU GAME...CALL ASAP  SEE HIS 1ST ND GAME.  GORDO, AND TELL HIM WHAT  
OPMENT CENTER AT NOTRE  $$$Help! I need 2 Navy GAs.  WILL PAY BIG MONEY!!!  I NEED A. F. G.A.'s  -call Mike at 4-1177  YOU THINK.  
DAME & SAINT MARY'S. SER­ Please call Lisa at 277-0740. Will  CALL X2125..LEAVE OFFER  Call Dave 634-1198  
VICES SUCH AS READING,  pay top dollars.$$$  NEED 1 BYU TICKET (STD OR  BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC  
CRAFTS & PLAYING WITH CHIL­ NEED 2 BYU GA'S. WILL PAY  GA) FOR IDIOT FRIEND FROM  
DREN. 75 MINS. ONCE A WEEK.  Need BYU student TIX (or GA's)  $$$$$$-call Brian@ X1739  I NEED 2 BYU G.A.'s II  HOME. PLEASE LET A MORON  LORI & CHRISTINE-good luck on  
PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 284­ Will pay good money  Will Trade Franklin, or Best Offer  SEE HIS 1ST ND GAME.  the GRE's -ANABEL  
4693.  Call Dennis at (914) 294-6546  Please, sell me one ticket to FSU!  ED @271·8151  -call Mike at 4-1177  
Monica-X2995  Paul- 
Campus Band needs Lead  NEED 2 GA's for NAVY &  • • • HELP MEl I NEED SIX BYU  Happy 22 and good luck on the  
Guitarist. Guaranteed gigs. Call  NEED 4 GA's for BYU  4 SALE: 2 Navy GAs-CALL with  WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GAs FOR  STDT TIX FOR MY LONG-LOST  GAEl Love Schmoo  
Pick 277-2375  CALL Chris x-1353  b/o 4-4824  2 BYU TIX. Call Val #4-2597  BROTHERS! CALL BETH X4841  

I I ' I I r I I ' I I • , ~ 1 ,­
~ I I I I I + ..!) • I I I I I I I + I t I , 't. 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Friday; October 7, 1994 
• MEN'S CROSS COIJNTRY 


Harriers host invitational Maroon tops Belles 
By KATE CRISHAM 
Assistant Sports Editor 
A field that includes potential rivals for an invitation to the national championships. 
Two seniors hoping that the fmal home meet of their racing careers will be a successful one. 
And a team eager to prove that it deserves higher than its current No. 12 national rank­ing. 
These three factors should provide ample motivation for the Notre Dame men's cross country team as it seeks its flfth consecutive Notre Dame Invitational championship today at the Burke Memorial golf course. 
"This is the biggest meet we've had so far and there are going to be a lot of good teams here," said Martisus. "But our goal is definitely to win this race." 
A big win would be especially welcome, as Notre Dame has Injuries, illnesses, and meets on three consecutive weekends forced head coach Joe Piane to juggle his lineup for last week's National Catholic meet, where the Irish placed a respectable third despite the absence of six of their top seven runners. 

"A lot of guys haven't raced in three weeks, so they are defi­nitely antsy," said Martisus. "They will really be ready to run." 
"There is a lot of significance in this meet because there are a lot of teams who may qualify for the NCAA's," said Piane. "It's important to run well against these teams if we hope to win an at-large bid to nationals." 
Piane said that Notre Dame's primary competition should come from Alabama, Southern Illinois, and West Virginia. 
"We also have the number­one ranked Division III team (North Central College) coming, and Division I schools Eastern Michigan and Central Michigan are also good," he said. "So it 

• 
is  definitely  a  competitive  
field."  
The  fact  that  today's  

Invitational is the final home meet of the year should provide a powerful incentive for the Irish, especially seniors Cowan and Ruder. 
"There are two seniors who will never run on our home course again," said Martisus. "We really want to go out with a victory for those seniors." 
According to Martisus, the Irish are not troubled that they have dropped from a fifth-place national ranking to twelth. 
"Georgetown is ranked first now, so I think that lessened a lot of stress on us that we lost so bad to them," he said. "It's true that we've been ranked higher in past years, but we always come on at the end of the season." 
"I think it will give us a sense of momentum," he said. "We're going to have to prove ourselves if we want to move up the polls." 

By MARIAN KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer record dropped to 3-8 after yesterday's 3-1 loss against the University of Chicago. 
"We were in it until the last five minutes, and I wouldn't ask for anything more than they gave," said coach Larry Patterson. 
The first few minutes of the game proved to be rocky for both teams as the ball was kicked out of bounds a couple of times. But it didn't take long for the Maroons to take control of the game. 
Although the Belles offense was very aggressive, and made several attempts at scor­ing, they were held to zero at the end of the first half. 
The second half was some­what more successful for the Belles. Both teams came out more confident and aggres­sive, and with a stronger desire to score. 
Although the Belles started to make several attempts early on in the second half, they did not score their first goal until after Katie Regan of the Maroons upped the score to 2-0. 
The Belles' forward Lisa Nichols then made the team's only goal15 minutes later. 
"We played well and had a good game," said Nichols. "Everything we have done in practice came through in today's game." 
The Belles hope to end their losing streak on Saturday as they play DePauw in Green Castle, Indiana at 1 p.m. 
"A HOT·BLOODED HUMAN COMEDY" 
-Janet Maslin, THE NEW YORK TIMES 
"A SEXY, LUSTY UNINHIBITED COMEDY" 
-Kevin Thomas,·• >.. THE LOS ANGELES TIMES 


Recycle The Observer! 
Tokyo $889* Taipei $839* Seoul $819* Hong Kong $1015* Bangkok $1069* Katlimandu $1559* 
Fara are round trlj; from Chlcogo O'Hare. Re­
strlct~'i:~ply,,:,Csarcnotincfudedandfares
~netJon!.o c ge. Coli for otherworklwlde 
Council Travel 
1153 H. Dearborn 
Chicago, 11 60610 
(312) 951-0585 
Call for a FREE Student Travels magazine! 


r -oneMediUm-, r -oneMediUm-, roneTargeOneToppingl r 'Two M'ediu'i;; ch~e ,
I Two Topping Pizza I IPizza ana 2-Liter of Pepsi I I Pizzas and 2-Uter of Pepsi I
1$699!!s·799! i$899 1$999 !
1

IGet up to four more pizzas for SS each.) 1 Second Medium only SS. 1 J Any second farge only J6. 1 
1 Additional toppings J 7.79 each. 1
Valid on Carry-aut or Delivery.~ 
Valid on Carry-out or Delivery.~ 

I Valid Ofl Carry-out or Delivery. ~ Valid on Corry-out or Delivery.~
I Expires 10/17/94 ~lwl I I Expires 10/17/94 ~lwl I Expires 10117/94 ~lwl I I Expires 10/17/94 ~ I1--------~.J L-----~-~.J L ~ut.J L ~Ul.J ~~~ 

I I I I f'' I • I j I '. 1 l , ~ \ ' I \ I \ I ' ' • 1 1 • I f I I • , I , 
\I \I I I' I 1 • 1 > I • •." I} \ ' \ I ~ \ ' 1 • L ' t • ,· \ I ~ • , " • 

Friday, October 7, 1994 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
e ore arne women's .. 
• 

soccer earn us sua e 


e on es WIDDID srea 


10 co e e soccer 1s or 
. 

1994 NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S SOCCER: Front Row (from left to right) -Jean McGregor, Stacia Masters, Rosella Guerrero, Michelle McCarthy, Emily Loman, Jen Renola, Ingrid Soens, Nicole Hinostro, Ragen Coyne, Camille Clinton, Jill Matesic. Back Row (from left to right) -Tiffany Thompson, Kate Fisher, Amy Vanlaecke, Kate Sobrero, Ashley Scharff, Kamie Page, Cindy Daws, Holly Manthei, Jodi Hartwig, Megan Middendorf, Julie Maund. Not Pictured -Robin Mego. 

-TONIGHT (5 p.m.}­vs. Conference foe Loyola 
--SUNDAY (3 p.m.}-­vs. eighth-ranked Wisconsin ~~~!!!!!!!!!!!~~ 
ALL GAMES PLAYED AT ALUMNI FIELD -BEHIND THE JOYCE CENTER 
. '' ' 
\ ' 
~~ \\ . 
' 


----------~--~----------------~~-~ 
I 1 j 1 I' 1 
I I I I I I.-, i 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, October 7, 1994 
• COLLEGE FOOTBALL

.. 
Costa has something to prove
Paterno's Lions go 
By STEVEN WINE Which means Florida State's thrown for 1,179 yards and Associated Press Dan Kanell faces plenty of pres­nine touchdowns, and third­
on the offensive sure too. This will be the ju­ranked Florida State (4-0) leads 
By JOHN F. BONFATII 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Under those plain blue and white uniforms, Penn State has gone flashy with a high­voltage offense that may turn into the most productive in school history. 
The fourth-ranked Nittany Lions have averaged 51.6 points per game in going undefeated in their first five games, outscoring opponents 258-86. 
Seems like a pretty big change for a team so identified with defense that it long ago earned the nickname Linebacker U. 
Not so, coach Joe Paterno says. 
"We've never went away from the idea that we want a two running back lineup," Paterno said in a telephone interview as Penn State took a week off before facing No. 7 Michigan at Ann Arbor Oct. 

Spartans prepare for Wolverines 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
How big is this game? As big as the difference between Michigan and Michigan State. It doesn't get any bigger. 
Those differences might be il­lustrated by comparing the football media guides of the two schools. 
-On the inside cover of the Michigan guide, there is a full­page picture of Tyrone Wheatley, standing in civilian clothes on the steps of an ivy­covered building. He is holding a biochemistry textbook in one hand and a football helmet in the other. The picture of a stu­dent athlete. 
-The corresponding page of the Michigan State guide is a picture of the scoreboard at Spartan Stadium. The picture was taken at the end of the 1993 game between these two schools. Michigan State 17, Michigan 7. 
The message is clear: At Michigan State, they live to beat Michigan. Almost nothing else matters. 
Neither team was especially strong last year. Michigan needed a 42-7 victory over North Carolina State in the Hall of Fame Bowl for an 8-4 sea­son. The Spartans were de-

The Department of Music Presents 
Guest Artist 

~dward Parmentier 
in a 

J-!arpsicfwrcf !R.fcita[ 
prrforming 1rorks by 

PETER PHILIPS, WILLIAM BYRD, GIROLAMO FRESCOBALD/, ANDREA GABRIEL!, G/OVANN/ GABRIEL/, JEAN-PHILIPPE RAMEAU, FRANCOIS COUP ERIN, ENNEMOND GAULTIER, &{OHANNSEBASTUVVBACH 
Sunaay, Octo6er 9, 1994 2:()() p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 
15. "We've always had a good tailback and good fullback. We haven't changed much, we just have better execution and bet­ter people." 
Three seniors -tailback Ki­J ana Carter, quarterback Kerry Collins, and wide receiv­er Bobby Engram -are lead­ing the way, but Penn State has quality backups in the event of injuries. 
Carter won't catch Curt Warner, whose 3,398 yards are the most ever by a Penn State runner. And he won't break Warner's school record of 18 100-yard games. 
But he has a shot at eclipsing the school record for best sea­sonal rushing average, 8.4 yards per carry, set by Blair Thomas in 1986. With 601 yards on 72 carries, Carter is averaging 8.3 yards per run. 
Carter suffered a dislocated right thumb in Penn State's 48-21 victory over Temple Oct. 1 but Paterno was optimistic he will be ready for Michigan. 

feated 18-7 by Louisville in the Liberty Bowl and finished 6-6. 
But the Spartans beat the Wolverines. Thrashed them, as a matter of fact. Held the mighty Michigan ground game to just 33 yards, all by Wheatley. So the season was a success. 
This time around, Michigan State coach George Perles is so intent on silencing the partisan crowd in Michigan Stadium on Saturday that he has silenced himself and his players all week. 
"You're not going to get any. bulletin board material out of me," Perles said. "They've got a reserved spot for me if I goof up." 
Imagine! A coach so intent upon victory that he refuses to speak, lest he say something that would make the opponent angry, wake up the sleeping dog. That's how big this game is. 
The Spartans (2-2, 1-0 Big Ten) are coming off a 29-10 victory over Wisconsin, the de­fending Rose Bowl champ. The No. 7 Wolverines (3-1, 1-0) are coming off a 29-14 triumph at Iowa, a win they needed to bury the ghost of the Colorado and the "Hail, Mary." 
The Spartans' offensive line, which was expected to be the strength of the team, was inef-MIAMI 
Frank Costa will likely revive or ruin his reputation Saturday night. 
That's a heavy burden for a 22-year-old college senior, but Costa faces an unusual task ­playing quarterback in the Miami-Florida State game. Few assignments during the football season carry a higher profile. 
In each of the past two years, the game's winning quarter­back has gone on to the Heisman Trophy. It was Miami's Gino Torretta in 1992 and Florida State's Charlie Ward in 1993. 
The impact can be just as dra­matic for the losing quar­terback. After Florida State beat Miami and Costa 28-10 last year, he lost his starting job for the rest of the season. 
"I have a lot of bad memories about last year's game," Costa said. "I took a lot of blame for that loss, and a lot of people looked down on me after that game. I'm not going to com­plain. It goes with the position." 
fective in losses to Kansas and Notre Dame. But things came together in a breather against Miami of Ohio. 
Against the Badgers, the line cleared the way for 259 yards rushing and 161 yards passing. It was a superb performance. 
"That's a team that's coming on," Wheatley said. "They struggled. Now, they're starting to win. They're going to come in here a mile high." 
Of course, Michigan's offense isn't bad, either. The Wolverines are averaging 402.5 yards of offense, 184.5 on the ground. 
The problem is that Michigan's defense is allowing even more. The opponents have averaged 411.6 yards against the Wolverines, 156.3 on the ground. 
If they can't stop the running of Michigan State tailbacks Duane Goulbourne, Antwain Patrick and Marc Renaud, the Wolverines may find them­selves featured in the Spartans' 1995 media guide, too. 

Take Kaplan and get your highest score! 
-
Kaplan gives you: 
• 
Dynamic teachers • Actual released tests 

• 
Computer analyzed testing • And now, test prep software 


Call 1-800-KAP-TEST 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question 
nior's first start against Miami, and Seminoles coach Bobby Bowden remembers what hap­pened the first time Ward faced the Hurricanes in 1992. 
"He got sacked four times in the first half," Bowden said. "Usually when you go into Miami to play for the first time, there's another element of learning that goes on. It's like going to the big leagues from the minors, and suddenly you're hitting a fastball at 90 mph instead of 80 mph. 
"Danny is going to go through another learning process in this game." 
Kanell, who grew up 45 min­utes from the Orange Bowl in Fort Lauderdale, anticipates a slow start against the speedy Hurricanes. 
"The important thing is to keep my composure, because things might not go so hot the first series," he said. "We'll make adjustments as quickly as we can." 
No one can quarrel with Kanell's results thus far. He has 

~amue~ 
ancino 's 

ITALIAN EATERY 
Football Feast 
The perfect food while watching the Irish beat B.C. Available all Day Saturday and Sunday IVI,.,.r,,-.v After 4:00 p.m. 
•};;yq;;;;d#·t·, . ····}':':&:}v·· 
more toppings ·u receive loafof 
Bread 

This offer is good at either ofour two locations. 
St. Andrew's Plaza LaSalle Square 620 W. Edison Rd. Suite 130 913 N. Bendix Drive Mishawaka, IN 46545 South Bend, IN 46628 
254-9533 234-5817 
the nation in passing. 
"He's a very accurate thrower with a pro-type game," Miami coach Dennis Erickson said. ''I'm sure when he's done play­ing, he'll be a very high draft choice." 
Costa has thrown for 988 yards and eight touchdowns, and his statistical rating is slightly higher than Kanell's. But when the 13th-ranked Hurricanes (3-1) lost to Washington on Sept. 24, Costa's many critics resurfaced. 
Some 450 miles away in Tallahassee, even Kanell no­ticed the bashing. 
"The media down there is pretty rough," Kanell said. "They're giving him a hard time. I think he's done a good job." 
But to detractors, it matters not that Miami won last year at Boston College and Colorado ­both ranked teams -with Costa at quarterback. They contend he can't win the big game. 

Admissiorz 55 G.:rzeral, 25 Studt:rzt/Senior Citizcrz 
) 
'f',' 


-·---­

--------_,-,-,.,...,.,-:-\-,~--,I I I I 1 I I> I~~~.-,,-,----;-,-'---=---.-:;--;--;--;--;----.,...-.-·~r---­
' ' I I I 
0 1 -~~.-,.,.-r""':".,.....-,--.-,.-,--.--;-~.....,...,....,-,:--,,•·-,,...,,....,......., ....,,_,,...,.-,"".'"".'..,'....F"",'""','""."'"','"",'.-,~·J
\ • ' I I I I I 1 1 \ .• 1. I I I' J I' I I' i I 1 I .. o, 1 I I • I 1 • • 1 1 ( 1 I I 1 I' ' I I' I'
1 
-~ 

Friday, October 7, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 17
' 

• COllEGE fOOTBt\ll 
Soccer 
continued from page 20

Boilermakers look to continue roll .. 

era rlT'Ll2(.9LL M.9l!i(.9trT1-[09£ 
!frit{ay, October 7 
:Heaven anat£artli: 6:00-8:20 !M.tButterf{y: 8:25-10:05 Li/(g, 'Waterfor Cfwcofate: 
10:10-11:17 %e Last f£mperor: 11:25-1:30 
Location: Carro{{.9lucfitorium $1.00 per movie 
fered a setback. 

offense. Obviously, they're play­"About a week and a half ago ing with a lot of mental tough­I was able to run for about five ness," Wacker said. ''I'm glad days," Coyne said, "but then I 
we're playing a good opponent started to get the pains again. this weekend because once we I'm still in pain now.'' eliminate critical errors we can After the Irish had begun to be a pretty good football team, settle into adjustments made and we have a chance to prove after the loss of Vogel and 
that." Coyne, junior sweeper Ashley Colletto's defense is last in the Scharff suffered a sprained an­Big Ten, having allowed oppo­kle against Cincinnati. nents an average of 415 yards Schartfs injury caused shifting per game. The Boilermakers in the Irish backfield, including are last in the conference in the re-positioning of Amy Van 
rushing defense (209.8) and Laecke to the defense-a posi­they've allowed opponents to tion she had never played be­complete 56 percent of their fore. passes for an average of 205.8. Although Scharff expects to 
return to the field this weekend score. The extra point was un­
after missing games against

successful. 
Duke and North Carolina, she Knott's offense began to show 
recognizes the frustration of promise once again with Mary 
those players who have had to 

Claire Kenny's 35-yard kick 
adjust to longer period of return. However, the battle of 
missed play. the defenses prevailed as nei­
"I've never had to go throughther team was able to score for 
this before," Sharff said. "It's the rest of the game. 
frustrating, but sprained ankles are something that happen. I 

Although Knott is now 0-3, had never been injured before 
they have played mostly high in college so it was kind of my 
ranking teams. 
turn." "We need to get more confi­
The most recent injury to an dence,'' Knott coaches said. 
Irish starter occurred during

"Our defense has kept us in the tie with North Carolina,
there more than the scores sug­
when junior forward Rosella gest." 
Guerrero re-injured her left Pasquerilla East hopes to im­
ankle. Guerrero has nearly prove on their passing game 
returned to full strength, and after impressive big plays in the 
may be used sparingly by the running game. 
Irish over the weekend. 'We're going to need to play 
"I'm just going to try to play more consistently and get our 
and see how it feels," Guerrero concentration up right from the 
said. "If I'm hurting the team 

-
start," Pasquerilla East coaches 
because I can't play at full 
said. 
speed, then I'll come out." 

:IE»:1:C:•:&•-.:rIIEC, F : 
ByHANKLOWENKRON 
Associared Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 

It's been a decade since Purdue won four of its first five games or had a winning sea­son. 
The Boilermakers (3-1, 1-0 Big Ten) can reach that first achievement and take a major step toward the second by de­feating Minnesota (2-3, 0-2) in Ross-Ade Stadium on Saturday. 
A victory would put Purdue en route to its first winning cam­paign since 1984 -the last time it opened 4-1 -and also 
Women 
continued from page 20 
six passes and the running backs gained less than twenty yards. 
Lewis tried a lot of long passes before a hand-off to Mary Beth Failla resulted in a forty yard touchdown run. The extra point was unsuccessful. 
In the second half, both teams' defense picked up a notch. Pasquerilla West found Lanny Le to run a total of 120 yards, but Lewis' tenacious d wouldn't give up the points. 
"Our team just needs to prac­tice more of the little things," said PW coach John Gordon. "I'm proud of their comeback demonstrate that. coach Jim Colletto's program has turned the corner in its fourth year. 
"It's nice to see some results to your efforts," Colletto said. "But, I've been in this business long enough to know that you can go from the penthouse to the outhouse, and back and forth, real fast." 
A potent one-two running punch of fullback Mike Alstott and tailback Corey Rogers will challenge Minnesota (2-3, 0-2). 
Rogers is averaging 5.9 yards per carry and 111 yards rush­ing per game. Alstott, who 
effort in the second half." 
Debbie Droll picked off a PW long pass for the game's only interception, but a determined Weasel secondary prevented any further scoring. 
"Our defense did an excel­lent job of putting pressure on," Lewis coach Brian Parker said. "Our offense played well but our defense kept us in the game." 
Pasquerilla East 12 Knott 0 
It was a battle of defenses and big plays last night as Pasquerilla East defeated a feisty Knott squad 12-0. 
The first half ended with both teams scoreless. Pasquerilla East defended the Angels' run­ning game well, preventing the scored a school-record 5 touch­downs in last year's wild 59-56 game won by Minnesota, is av­eraging 6 yards per rush and 
91.3 per game. The Boilermakers, who have outscored their opponents 143­93, are averaging 256.0 per game on the ground. 
"They're a really good football team and they run the ball in­credibly well," Minnesota coach Jim Wacker said. 
The Boilermakers have scored 16 touchdowns in 17 times they've gotten the ball inside the opponent's 20-yard line. 
"That's incredible goal-line 
option from putting points on the board. Knott's secondary was clutch in stopping P.E.'s most successful drive early in the game with an interception by Alise Pagano. 
In the second half, PE made some changes and gave the ball to Charo Gonzalez. On the third play, Gonzalez ran 40 yards off an option play from quarterback Kristen Doty for the team's first touchdown. Knott couldn't convert on third and five and punted deep into PE territory. 
Pasquerilla East started their next scoring drive with a five­yard punt return and an in­complete long pass before they gave the ball to Gonzalez who ran 55 yards in two plays to 

'37'"«»-..:&.:r~ e:1:£ i..:111 -1;:11e: ::a-11i..c'l.c'l.1e: C»:£ -1;:11e: 
e::m::ci..-t.e:Z12.e::111-t.! 
The Dome yearbook is looking for staff photographers. Meeting Sunday, October 9 at8pm 311 La Fortune. Questions??? Call 631-7524. 
LOO WHO'S 

''21'' 
TARA KRULL SMC 10/9/94 
Happy Birthday! 
Love, Mom, Dad & Erin 
I ____},_ 

~~ -,._.....,....._.-~-~~-------..............,.....,.-.,........,----;--;--; ----;-:-.----: · ' I I I I I I 1 o • I I I 1 I ' f o -,.,..,-:-,.,-,--------.------­
I I I I . I' I I ' I o I I o t t o o o o \ • 1 \ I ' , o too I I I o I l 1 t ~ 1 t I I • o , \)•lil'l•l ·, I I I 1 1 1 l t t • 1 o I It I I 1 1' I 1 1 
f., 
1
1 
__J' ' 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS ·, Friday, October 7, 1994 
• MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD DIVISION 
' 

Middle-of-pack squads fight for position 
ByTODDRUTH 
Sports Writer 
8th-ranked Fisher (1-1) takes on 9th-ranked and undefeated, yet winless, Zahm (0-0-2) this Sunday at 1:00 pro in one of the most pivotal games of the inter­hall season yet. 
"I am a little concerned with Zahm's defense," Fisher junior Chris Lary said. "We'll have to work on our offensive plays and stick to the basics." 
Not only do they have to work on offense, but they have to clean it up too. Turnovers haunted Fisher last Sunday. 
After coming off of a 12-0 loss to Carroll, Fisher has to make sure they stay focused. Being ranked eighth in the Power Poll is not making a negative impression on this team. 
"Benji Hammond heads a strong offense for Zahm," Lary said. "We'll have to put a lot of pressure on him and try to keep up with their receivers." 
Zahm is not out of the playoff race yet. Coming off of two ties in as many games, they should be coming into this game with their heads still hungry for a win. Captain Dave Bozanich should have his teams' defense as ready as they have been in the past two weeks. 
Key players for Zahm are wide receiver Rick Rios and Freshman quarterback Benji Hammond. 
Both teams are coming into this game injury free, so it looks to be a hard-hitting contest and a battle to the end. 
Alumni vs. St. Ed's 
It's Arizona head coach Buddy Ryan's dream come true. That's right, the match-up between Alumni and St. Ed's this Sunday at 2:00 pm. 
"Alumni's defense looked pretty tough against Zahm last Sunday. but we aren't going to do anything different" head coach Tony Nowak said. "We'll just go with our strengths that match up with their weaknesses." 

Dear Tommy, 
Happy Birthday & love to our most treasured gift of love!! 
-
xoxo 
Mom, Dad, Mary Ellen Margie 

Main & Jefferson 
Hours 

Not a Franchise! M s t 11 00 11 oo
A F. . d on-a : a.m.-: p.m.
amz1y 0 wne Business Sun 4:00-9:00 p.m. 
257-1100 
"This is How Pizza is Supposed to Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery 
Call272-2EAT 
$2 off large pizza with Student ID 
St. Ed's is coming off of an impressive win over Sorin hall last week 14-0. Having three quarterbacks, St. Ed's split last weeks' game between only two of them, Ben Magnano and Jacob Bump. 
What about the third you ask? Well Frank Diorio played the week before. Looks like a quarterback controversy just waiting to be uncovered. To put all guesses aside, it looks as though Jacob Bump will be the starter this week. 
Lining up in the backfield behind Bump will be tailback Mike Norbut, who took the ball sixty yards for six points on the second play of the second half. 
Let's not forget about Alumni. Ranked 6th in the Power Poll, they finished last week's game in a 0-0 deadlock against Zahm. If there was a team to put St. Ed's to the test they would be it. With a record of 1­0-1 they come into this match­up looking for the best. 
Although St. Ed's had some of their players banged up last week, it looks as though they are all healthy except defensive end Dan Waserski, who is ques­tionable with a quadricep­strain. It looks to be a struggle to the end. 
Carroll vs. Sorin 
The high hopes that No. 12 Sorin had coming into this sea­son are slowly diminishing. However, a win against second ranked Carroll could still pro­vide enough fuel to keep the fire lit inside of them. 
The now 0-2 Otters, who suf­fered a 14-0 defeat at the hands of St. Ed's last week, are look­
ing for an upset against Carroll(1-0-1) who defeated Fisher 12-0. 
"We aren't looking past Sorin at all," Scott Ismail said. "We realize how important this game is." 
Sorin's defense played pretty well last week. As in the rest of the games slated for this week­end, this one is going to be focused on defense as well. 
"We've had some let-downs before. They can beat us at anytime," Ismail said. "We just have to run the ball and keep them guessing." 
Sorin Hall is not yet out of the playoff picture. They just need to keep their intensity and go after everyone like it was the championship game. 
Carroll is looking good for a bid in the playoffs and they hope to keep it that way. 

t 
The FACULTY Series 
TIMELY TOPICS 
An opportunity to enter into conversation with colleagues on current ethical and religious issues. 
FAMILIES and End-of-Life Issues 
A conversation with 
Mark Poorman, C.S.C.  and  Susan Steibe-Pasalich  
Assistant Professor of Theology  Assistant Director,CoWlSeling Center  
Director of the M.Div. Program  Assistant Professor of Psychology  

Tuesday, October 11 7:30p.m. at The Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Faculty, Professional Staff & Graduate Students Welcome 
Sponsored by: The Department The Center for The Office of ofTheology Social Concerns Campus Ministry 
--Light Refreshments will follow -­
-
~ 
kinko·s~ the copy center 2202-C South Bend Ave. Greenwood Plaza 271-0398 109 E. Jefferson Jefferson Centre 234-8709  Many Feet. At Kinko's, our oversize copiers can make one-to-one copies of documents up to THREE FEET wide by ANY LENGTH. At Notre Dame, see the MANY FEET of the soccer teams and catch the men's and women's doubleheaders this weekend ­tonight beginning at 5p.m. and Sunday beginning at 1p.m.  3:00 SUNDAY! I 2nd-ranked NOTRE DAME vs. 8th-ranked WISCONSIN Womens Soccer Alumni Field -behind the JACC ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID!  

------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

1, o I I 1,' I • I o '1 I 1 o o • I I I 1 I 1 o o • I I I I I •.1 • •
•, 1 1, 1 o I. 1 o 1 I I I

I, '..J
• I I I • •
I ' \ \ ' I 0 1 ~ I 0 I I I I I I I oj I • I I j I • I I • • • o I I I •

''' \ o I, I' I • 1 o 1 I o I I I I I I I o I j I 
l 
Friday, October 7, 1994 The Observer· TODAY page 19 
l 
l
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
l 
! 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
GIIJE ME t>. ~ICE SMILE . 1\-\~1':, GOOO. 1'\0'« 00~'1 t<\f>.\(t. />. FP.CE , 01(? Rt:I>.D~ ? ONE.... T'tiO ... 1\-\RIT .. , 


DILBERT 
SO ... 1 ORDER YOU TO 1'\ARKE.TING PEOPLE ~ 
I'VE. NEVER MANAGED 
GO DO f'\ARKEfiNG BEFORE . BUT AGOOD ~ 
IHINGS ... LtKE.. f"\AN AGER CAN f'\ANAGE. ~ 

SEGf'\ENilNG AND 
~ ANYTHING ~ 
&I 1 
~ 

CROSSWORD 

-
ACROSS 29 A, to Mozart 57 Young men's 30 Not sanguine 
club
1 Macintosh predecessor 31 Ball perch 
59 Moore's "­the Last Rose of
5 Fish feature 32Having a Summer"ranking10 Crumples &O Kind of stew 14 Joie de vivre 34 Chateau-dotted 61 Excerpt, part 5 valley15 Less racy &4 Icicle holder 
3&Wind up &5 What a skimmer 
16 Unbalanced 
17 Start of an 37 Excerpt, part 3 skimsexcerpt from an 40 Pendant 66 BoxEdna St. 
43 Zigzags

Vincent Millay 67 Half-note 
44 Oscitates

poem feature 48 Antecedent
19 Elvis. for one 68 It's a crying 
period 

need 49 Year of Trajan's 
20 "Read this" 
69 Baseball victory over 
21 Chaser, 
Hall-of-Famer Dacia
perhaps Coveleski22 Norm's wife, on 
50 Ruined

"Cheers" 51 Excerpt, part 4
23 Physicist 
DOWN 
Joliet-Curie 55 Comical Anne 25 Excerpt, part 2 56 Province 1 More verdant 2 "Twelfth Night" setting ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Conspicuous 4 What's more 

Celebrate a 
5 Eye problem 6 Old Testament 24 1970 Nobel 40 Is mannerly 53 Commonly scout physicist Louis 41 Pig out 54 Inflict 
friend's birthday
7 Dean Martin 26 Most bears, 42 Leave desolate 55 V.J. employer subject biologically 
45 This and that sa Land force 

a Deighton or 27 One of TV's 460netime 61 "-Iiebe Dawson Cleavers 
dictator dich" 

with a special
9 Dyne­28 Them, with 47 Eisenhower 62 Powerful D.C. 
centimeter "the" confidant lobby -...::-+=--t-1 10 Give up 33 Quit flying 52 1692 trial site 63 Superways -=+"'+..:..j.-::'-1 11 Not too soft 34 Masse net opera 
Observer ad.
.:,:.+::-+=:~t-1 12 Openers 35 Black or red 
Get answers to any three clues 

-=+-=---+-'~-+=+:-'-!-',-~ 13 Like a tree 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

newborn's legs 38--bean 5656 (75¢ each minute).
_....--'-'.....1....:.-'-.....::....'-'-' 18 Tad· s dad 39 Pave the way 

I 
' 
1 
' . 

~ 
1 
l 
} 'I' \ . 1 '\ 





• ! • t I 1 t t • t 1 t \ t I I I • t t 1 I f ~ ' I ' I• ' • I f I I t I • ' ' I l I Ito; I t t • I I • I • • I 1. , , 1 , I I , \ \ 1 r o I ~ I I I I I I I I I ~ r ' t I I I I / ' I I 1 • 1 I I I I • I I It I I I 1 I I I I 1 I o I 
SPORTS 
page 20 Friday, October 7, 1994 


Irish host weekend double headers 
-
Men hope to return to winning ways in MCCplay 
By JARED PATZKE Sports Writer 
After losing their last three games and four of their last five, the Notre Dame men's soccer team is looking for someone, anyone, to step up and score. 
Despite the fact the team has dominated the majority of play in the games they lost, the of­fensive unit has failed to score in any of their last four defeats. The most recent loss was the 2-0 final against Loyola on Wednesday. 
The Irish enter into the week­end with two crucial confer­ence home games ahead of them. The first is on Friday at 
7:30 p.m. against the University of Illinois at Chicago. The Flames are entering the game with a 5-5-1 record and a 1-1 conference mark. 
"These upcoming conference games are must wins," senior defender Chris Dean said. "We see our season as bottoming out after our string of unusual bad luck. We look at the month of October as a new season. These games are cru­cial because we need to qualify for the conference tournament and get a high seeding." 
Chicago is entering the game partially on momentum from their 5-0 thrashing of the same Loyola team which just defeat­ed the Irish. The Flames will 


The Observer/Kyle Kusek Tim Oates and the Irish are in a must-win situation in their two MCC games this weekend. 
be led by their explosive sophomore forward Eugenio Raso, who recorded a hat trick in the game. 
Notre Dame will be looking to end their scoring woes against the Illinois defense who allows just over a goal and a half per game. 
"These last few losses have been disapointing and very frustrating," senior midfielder Kevin Adkisson said. "We've been outplaying our opponents and losing. We've been hitting a lot of posts and crossbars and been unlucky in that regard. I think once we score one goal the flood gates will open." 
Notre Dame is hosting the Midwestern Confererce soccer tournament this year, and with a 2-3 conference record the Irish are in danger of not being eligible to participate. 
Injury-plagued women ssquad faces Loyola and No. 8 Wisconsin 
ByRIANAKEY Associate Sports Editor 
You can say that the Notre Dame women's soccer team is lucky to be 9-0-1 and ranked No. 2 in the country by the Intercollegiate Soccer Association of America. 
The Irish were lucky when ju­nior forward Michelle McCarthy stole a William & Mary throw-in with 25 seconds left in the second overtime and scored the final goal of a 4-3 win. 
Notre Dame was lucky when three solid North Carolina shots-on-goal were deflected off posts during the overtime of their 0-0 tie with the Tar Heels. 
But although the Irish have had bits of good luck to help them to their best start in pro­gram history, their success this season have come despite some extraordinarily bad luck. 
At the beginning of the season head coach Chris Petrucelli cited depth as one of the strengths of his squad. 
But if the Irish were treading water at the beginning of the season, now they're barely get­ting their knees wet. Four would-be starters are currently sidelined with injuries, forcing Petrucelli to dig deeper into the depth chart almost every week. 
"We thought coming into the season that we had great depth and that it would allow us to rest players during games," Petrucelli said. "Now that depth is the reason we're sur­viving." 
The first two injuries suffered by the Irish were also the most serious. 
Junior defender Julie Vogel developed back problems and was lost for the entire season before it began. She is cur­rently recuperating from cor­rective surgery she had in September and will not return to action for the Irish this sea­son. 
Another junior, forward Ragen Coyne, was diagnosed with a stress fracture during the summer. Early hopes were that Coyne would complete therapy and return to the Irish line up late in the season. After an initial period of progress, though, Coyne suf­
see SOCCER I page 17 


• WOMEN'S INTERHAU. 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Marce McNeil completed 11 of 13 passes for Siegfried. 

Siegfried powers past Off Campus, 19-6 
ByKC. GOYER turned to the highly motivated plays. At third and goal from ponent on defense, and cred­Sports Writer Siegfried squad. the twelve, Kathleen Clark ited the cohesiveness of the A long pass under pressure, a caught a short pass and bul­defensive squad with keeping 
Depth of talent and a concen­twenty yard run off a short pass leted through three defenders them in the game. trated effort allowed Siegfried to Kathleen Clark, and an eight to score the final points of the "The offense knew what it had to upset fourth-ranked Off yard run by Jen Laurie landed game. to do and the defense really Campus last night at Cartier the Slammers in the endzone came together to bring home Field. once again. A short pass for Off Campus cited a poor week the victory," said Spencer. 
Four different players con­the extra point was deflected. of practice and a lack of inten­tributed to Siegfried's 19 points sity as factors in the loss. Pasquerilla West 0 Lewis 6 over Off Campus' 6. Early in Off Campus showed signs of a [Siegfried] has a great quar­the game, Tricia Shafnitz comeback on their first play in terback," Off Campus coaches Pasquerilla West lost a tough scored on a fifteen yard run off the second half when Sara said. "She always seemed to get game to a highly motivated the option. A short pass to Erin Donelly returned a punt 60 away and also threw well Lewis team. The first half Ippolito put a total of seven on yards for the team's only touch­under pressure." showed the seventh-ranked the board for the Slammers. down. The attempted extra Slammer QB Marce McNeil Purple Weasles stumbling on 
point failed. completed 11 of 13 passes and offense, as quarterback Carry 
Off Campus' offense didn't Siegfried answered Off ran for 30 yards. Wieneke completed only one of convert on fourth down and Campus' offensive drive, Siegfried Co-Captain Sam three, and the ball was re-marching 55 yards in four Spencer was a formidable op-
see WOMEN I page 17 


of note...
MEN'S INTERHALL 
See Sports Extra for all the 

Previews ofthis weekend's 
' 
' 
t 
ND vs. BC

Blue and Gold Division matchups. 
t 
football details. 
See Pages 13 & 18 

! 









