
NO C. '-~ D ~ 
L}IIY 
:I:
• DILl. 
~ 

'Right to death' debated in Fisher forum Ammended 
ByNICKRIOS 
regulations
News Writer 
Recent controversies sur­

to be enforced rounding the idea of individuals actively assisting in suicides 
By KATIE MURPHYprompted Michael Paese, the 
News Writer 
assistant rector of Fisher Hall, to organize a series of forums In an attempt to clarify thewhich began on February 2 to rules and violations procedures discuss these current contro­for student body elections, theversial issues. 
Student Senate amended theAssociate professor of philos­
bylaws of student govern­
ophy William Solomon and ment's constitution last Sep­John Robinson. director of Cen­tember.
ter for Law and Government, "The decision to do that wasdebated varying insights on the something we talked about last subject. 
year," said Andrew Alfers. ju­"We must first distinguish be­dicial council president. 
tween ~he different terminol­
In general, the Senate re­
ogy. We must distinguish be­formed the appeal proceduretween active and passive assis­for candidates facing election
tance of suicide," began 
violations. Previously, if a can­Solomon. "To actively partici­
The Observe/ Alan Smijh didate was accused of commit­pate is to facilitate devices that ting a violation, the Electionterminate life or act to termi­

William Solomon, associate professor of philosophy, and John Robinson, director of the Center for Law and Committee decided the penalty. 
nate life. Passively [assisting], 

Government, discuss the "Right to Die" in an open forum in the basement of Fisher Hall. This procedure. however, pro­
on the other hand, is to let 
vided candidates with an op­someone die, meaning not help­back past the era of Christian-according to Solomon. cide?" 
portunity to appeal the decision ing someone live." ity. "One of the big arguments Whether it is up to people to Robinson began by answer-to the Student Senate. 
"I think that it is always in favor of assisting in suicide is decide what goes on with their ing Solomon's question: "Why "If they didn't like the deci­wrong to directly kill the inno­that their is no longer a moral , lives, the argument of auton-now, when we can be anes­sion, they would always appeal cent. But even if you don't distinction in 'killing' and 'let-omy, was Solomon's final point. thetized into oblivion, are we so to the Student Senate," saidagree to that, you should agree ting die."' "I think people want to have angrily demanding of the right Alfers.
that we should not let doctors "The central argument of control of everything they do to die? My answer is that death 
The appeal to the Student
do it," said Solomon. "Doctors people in favor of assisted sui-with their lives, and this is just is a social construct, meaning Senate became a routine parthave always been a symbol of cide is that if we can let some another decision. Abortion was humans necessarily conspire to of the election violation proce­hope and of recovery." elderly person die in a room put in the personal realm; why channel basic human impulses dure. Since the Election Com­Solomon explained how the because we refuse to give peni-can't this be? Why now, when it into socially accepted forms." 
mittee is actually a part of Stu­moral values of doctors not tak­cillin, how would it be different is the best time in history to die "The natural death occurred dent Senate, the Senate voteding any measures to shorten letting Kevorkian assist some-a no-suffering death, why now to only allow appeals if therethe lives of patients has dated one to end his or her life?" is there such an interest in sui-see RIGHT I page 4 was a procedural defect in the Elections Committee's decision or if new evidence surfaced af­


Officers offer formula for successful Navy 
ter the decision. "The president of Student 
By SUNNY BYERS African-American Naval Offi­enormous for women of all cul­"Through the Navy, many Senate, who is the student body News Writer cers, opened the dissension tures," she said. things are possible," Sigler 
president, is a non-voting
with the story of the "Golden "Along with more opportuni­agreed. member who decides whether 
Leadership, responsibility and 13," a historical group of men ties for women, there is also the Recruiters look for academic or not the candidate's appealoppurtunity are the most whose leadership skills and guarentee of finding a good job skills to see if the applicant un­meets one of those criteria," important aspects in the mili­Naval knowledge earned them through the Navy," said derstands the technicalities. said Alfers. "The rationale be­tary, according to a panel of medals of honor. "I found out Anderson, part of the Navy Re­Athletic skills, teamwork, and hind this is that the Election Naval lieutenants. that being in the Navy was cruiting Command. "As an of­community service show that if 
Committee is created by the 
Lt. Charles Anderson, Lt. more democratic than the ficer, with the foundation of person cares for others before Student Senate to run the elec­Karen McGraw, Lt. Glenn Sigler country we were serving," said people skills and leadership themselves. The responsibility tions." and honorary guest Jesse Arbor Arbor. skills, jobs basically find you in that is learned through the In response to alleged elec­led the dissension concerning the civilian world." armed forces can help in later tion violations in last year's"African-Americans in Defense All fields in the military are "As for being African Ameri· life, according to Anderson. · 
student body presidential and of our Nation." now open to women, as op­can in the Armed Forces, I vice-presidential election, the 
"Leadership is something we posed to the few that were of­haven't faced much racial prej­"When looking toward the bylaws were also amended to as officers have learned to fered before, according to Mc­udice. Jesse Arbor helped pave Navy as a stepping stone to a include more specific cam­thrive on, and it helps us in the Graw. "The maturity and re­the way for us to be here in the better career, it is reassuring to paigning times. Last year, the civilian world as well as in the sposibilty that comes with being first place, by being the first know that there is a job for ev­Stephanie Gallo/Chris Brown-armed forces," said Sigler. in the armed forces brings out African-American Officer," said ery major out there, " said An­
Jesse Arbor, one of the first opportunities that are simply McGraw. derson. see RULES I page 4 

Student organizations feel AIDS ignored, overlooked 
Editor's note: The following is Glenn Cassidy, coordinator of service to rectors, Hall presi­the fact that AIDS is a serious the fourth in an ongoing series Students With AIDS Training CAMPUSES dents, and students. response is problem," said Cassidy. "It's a examining AIDS education and (SWAT), the student group minimal at the most, said step in the right direction." awareness on college cam­whose members are Red Cross Cassidy. Some students think that the puses. trained to make presentations, Other student leaders blame AIDS Memorial Quilt presenta­
cites a need for the University the nature of a University per­tion will also change an apa­By SARAH DORAN to stimulate student awareness ceived as closed minded for a thetic student attitude. Associate News Editor of the subject. lack of sufficient AIDS educa­
cational sessions are attended

"Neither students nor the tion. "A lot of people have wel­
by all students," he said. 

Despite the programs offered University sees it as a prob­"The Campus does not allow comed the Quilt with open
Citing the difficulty in making 

by student and University lem," he said. "AIDS is a prob­for the kind of openness and arms, recognizing that the issue 
educational programs manda­

groups, many student organ­lem on this campus and the kindness needed to properly affects everybody, not just a
tory, Student Government Vice­

izations feel that AIDS and HIV University needs to encourage educate its students on this dis­certain facet of the population," 
President Nikki Wellman said

education is largely ignored on its students to think a little ease," said Courtenay Redis, co­said George Fischer, a coordi­
that, at the least, the University

the part of the Notre Dame more about it." president of the unrecognized nator of the student govern­
should offer dormitory presen­

administration and over-looked While Cassidy admitted that student organization Gays and ment committee responsible for 
tations on a regular basis "so 

on the part of its students. the student apathy and low Lesbians at Notre Dame and bring the AIDS Memorial Quilt
that every student has an easy

"The administration wants to turnout which plague presenta­Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC.) to campus. "It should do a lot to 
opportunity to learn more

talk about it as little as possi­tions hampers educational ef­But Redis, Cassidy, and get more students involved and
about AIDS."

ble," said Elisabeth Caruso, co­forts, he suggests that the addi­Caruso, agree that the upcom­make them more aware." 


ordinator of AIDS Aware, a ser­tion of a few mandatory pro­ing campus showing of the
SWAT has given two optional

vice oriented organization that grams is one the University Names Project AIDS Memorial "Notre Dame is a great place
presentations by request to

is one of two student groups to should make. Quilt can provide the necessary to have the Quilt because there
Knott Hall and AIDS Aware this 

offer AIDS education at Notre "Administrators, rectors and impetus for improving campus is so much room to do so much 
year.

Dame. "Students just don't R.A. 's need to work together education on the disease. 
Although they advertise their

think about it." and mandate that certain edu-"It will open people's eyes to see AIDS I page 4 page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, February 3, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Apathy for athletics ... well nobody's perfect 
Glory. 
It's something most people seek at some  Liz Foran  
time in their lives. Not  Assistant News Editor  
that most people need  
ego-stroking or are self- 

centered, but at times its just nice to know that hard work and effort are appreciated, or maybe just noticed. 
Of course, football glory has always been intrinsic to Ol' Notre Dame. Many a Saturday has been spent in the brisk autumn air cheer­ing on yet another victory on the Irish grid­iron. 
But, not to take any credit away from the football team, can their hard-earned glory and recognition be shared with other sports teams, or does the frre and undying support from the University and its fans die with the close of the football season, like the last leaves falling befopre the frrst snow? 
Right now, the Notre Dame men's basketball team is coming off of two near victories over extremely challenging opponents, Duke and Providence. Last Wednesday, Notre Dame nearly beat the number two college basketball team in the nation. 
The excitement of the game was unbeliev­able. Notre Dame played one of their best games of the year. They led the entire game until almost eight minutes into the second half. They had the ability and opportunity to win the game until the final second. 
The team played well as individuals and together. Despite claims that no worthy bas­ketball player would give Notre Dame the time of day,(although freshman team members had been recruited by Indiana, Kentucky, Louisville, Vanderbilt, please excuse my digression) even freshman contributed and helped to make this one of the biggest games in Notre Dame basketball history. 
Duke had not lost to a non-conference team in eleven years, much less a loss at home. They won by only two points in a game that they were predicted to win by at least 25 .. 
With a near victory like that, was the cam­pus overwhelmed with excitement and pride, such as after the victory over Florida State? Were people happy and elated that our bas­ketball team was finally showing its true potential? 
Well a walk down the hallway showed stu­dents quietly lounging in the halls studyilng or talking on the phone. A walk through my dorm's lounge produced death stares from the die-hard 90210 watchers, who did not care to be disturbed with news of the teams struggle. Why, Brenda has a new boyfriend, and Brandon is performing yet another humanitar­ian deed for his fellow man. Granted, the game wasn't televised, but please. 
Would this have been the scenario had it been football season? 
Oh, and before the game, in the pre-game show, true to form and typical of every Notre Dame basketball pre-game radio show, a true­blooded die-hard Notre Dame fan called in ... with a question about next year's football team. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
Sports Production Tim Seymour Cheryl Moser George Dohrmann Jackie Moser 
Jason Kelly Allison Ebel 
Graphics
News 
Chris Mullins
Theresa Aleman Viewpoint Suzy Fry Kevin Hardman 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation perinds. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Rescue teams search for survivors in flooding aftermath 
BOGOTA, Colombia Rescue teams searched for bodies and survivors Wednesday after mudslides up to 12 feet deep swept away hundreds of homes and killed at least 11 people. 
Dozens of people were still missing as of Wednesday afternoon in the area around Florida, 170 miles southwest of Bogota, officials said. Omar Cardona, director of the government's Office of Disaster Control, said about 50 people were injured and 3,000 left homeless. 
One of the hardest hit areas was the La Playita shantytown, which was turned into a sea of mud littered with dead animals, household goods and clothes. 
The disaster occurred when heavy rains loosened earth in the mountains above the city of Florida and washed it into the Fraile River. When the river reached the valley where Florida sits, the mud spewed into the city of 80,000. 
About 400 rescue wprkers from the Red Cross, the army, the fire department and other agencies were searching for survivors and bodies. "Our main goal now is to rescue the people who are still alive," Cardona said. "We have found people hanging on from tree tops." Much of Florida is without electricity or water, Cardona said. The fire depart­ment is bringing in tanks with fresh water. 
Cardona said there would have been more victims had it not been for Florida city officials warning residents of an impending disaster, using sirens and loud­speakers. 

Up to 10 shuttle dockings are planned with Russia's Mir
Davidian sa s cult members were armed 


space station. "It is sort of ironic" after years of Cold War rivalry with the former Soviet Union, said Jeremiah 
SAN ANTONIO 
Pearson III, head of NASA's spaceflight program and aThe government's star witness in the trial of 11 Branch retired Marine officer. "But now there are no more warsDavidians testified that several defendants were armed to fight, and the space program's a good place to be."

with assault weapons during a shootout with federal Two days after reaching orbit, the crew is to release aagents. Former cult member Kathryn Schroeder also tes­flying saucer-like satellite to grow thin, high-qualitytified Wednesday that David Koresh strengthened his 
semiconductor films. Discovery is also carrying

doomsday message and stockpiled weapons in the Spacehab, a commercial laboratory in the shuttle's cargo months leading to a deadly shootout with federal agents. 
bay. It contains 12 NASA-sponsored experiments but has Schroeder said defendants Livingston Fagan, Renos no commercial customers. 

Avraam, Jaime Castillo, Graeme Craddock, Kevin Whitecliff, Clive Doyle, Brad Branch and Ruth Riddle had 
Beckwith believed he had God's blessing 

guns either during the Feb. 28 shootout or the subse­quent standoff. She did not say she saw anyone firing the 

JACKSON, Miss.

guns. All 11 defendants are accused of murder and mur­A retired policeman testified for the defense today that der conspiracy in the slaying of four Bureau of Alcohol, Byron De La Beckwith was 90 miles away when civilTobacco and Firearms agents in the shootout. They face rights leader Medgar Evers was gunned down in hisup to life in prison if convicted. 
Jackson driveway. As he did at Beckwith's two previous trials, James Holley testified he saw Beckwith outside a gas station in Greenwood at 1:05 a.m. on June 12, 1963. Evers was shot by a sniper about 12:30 a.m. Beckwith, a 73-year-old former fertilizer salesman, was tried twice in 


PORTLAND 
1964 on charges of murdering Edgars, an NAACP orga­Tonya Harding's lawyer urged officials not to throw her nizer. Both trials ended in hung juries, but the case wasoff the U.S. Olympic team despite her ex-husband's claim reopened after allegations of jury-and evidence-tamper­she OK'd the attack on rival skater Nancy Kerrigan. 

ing.

Harding again denied involvement. Weaver made the appeal after Harding's ex-husband, Jeff Gillooly, pleaded 
Consumersw of hormone in milk 

guilty to racketeering and agreed to testify that Harding approved the Jan. 6 attack that knocked Kerrigan out of 

WOODSBORO

U.S. figure skating championships, the qualifying compe­The milk you drink may soon come from cows injectedtition for the Olympics this month in Lillehammer, with a genetically engineered hormone that makes themNorway. A special committee began meeting this week to produce more. And that has many grocers and dairylook into whether Harding violated the association's farmers worried: Are consumers ready for scientists toethics code and forfeited her place on the Olympic team. 
tinker with milk? After nine years of federal governmentThe panel expects to make a recommendation by week's scrutiny, a bovine growth hormone goes on sale Fridayend. 

for use by the nation's dairy farmers. It will be the first major test of how the public feels about using genetic engineering to produce food.A genetically engineered
Shuttle readied for research flight launch 


enzyme has been used for years to make cheese and researchers are developing a genetically engineered
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
tomato. But this is the first use of genetic engineering onNASA fueled its most-traveled spaceship, Discovery, for living creatures to produce a food that traditionally hasa sunrise launch at 7:10a.m. today with five Americans symbolized purity.Not to worry, says Gary Grossnickle, and the frrst Russian assigned to fly aboard a U.S. shuttle. 

41, who milks 500 cows in nearby Walkersville."It's theWith cosmonaut Sergei Krikalev on board, it is the first most widely tested agricultural product in history," heU.S.-Russian manned space mission since the 1975 said. It took nine years before the Food and DrugApollo-Soyuz docking. The United States and its former Administration approved the product on Nov. 5. A con­Space Race rival expect Discovery's voyage to lead to gressionally imposed moratorium expires today on use ofmore joint missions and, by 2001, a shared space station. 

the hormone. 


NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather~ forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 3. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather.tnc. Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta 41 36 Denver 54 19 New York 37 20 Balrimore 44 20 Friendswond 71 57 Philadelphia 40 21 Boston 34 7 Los Angeles 76 50 Phoenix 69 40 Chicago 34 26 Miami 73 68 Sr. Louis 40 37 Colombus 39 29 Minneapolis 8 -4 San Fran cisco 59 41 Dallas 56 50 Nc:w Orleans 60 49 Seattle 50 45 
----~---~-~-~------·-~­
page3

Thursday, February 3, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 



Lugar: College Republicans crucial to party's success 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
News Writer 
The involvement of the College Republicans in local politics is crucial to the success of the Republican Party in 1996, according to Rich Delevan, a campaign consultant for Senator Dick Lugar, who is running for re-election this fall. 
"It's in your interest now to get involved." Delevan said last night at the semester's first meeting of the College Republi­cans. 
Encouraging members to become involved in local issues such as crime at Lafayette Square as well as the county sheriffs and clerk's races, Del­evan stressed this district's im­portance to the success of local and federal Republican candi­dates. 
Delevan also profiled the 
Senator's career dating from 
his service on the Indianapolis school board in the late 1960's to his current position as a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He point­ed out Lugar's status as a "Taxpayers Hero of 1993" and "one of the most conservative members of the 103rd Con­gress." 
Delevan also highlighted the Senator's endorsement of a strong military and of NAFTA, and credited Lugar with being the primary organizer of the Partnership for Peace, a new organization to aimed at ex­panding NATO membership. 
The College Republicans could make a great contribu­tion to the Lugar campaign, according to Delevan. He said that their aid in registering vot­ers and distributing bumper stickers and lawn signs would be extremely helpful to the campaign. 


HILTON HEAD ISLAND BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
•l'llll'fiiSQIDEPUICHIIGOIIDlSTIIAllOII./IIAUIOJTU(lPIOniOftlll. 
FOR AIIOIT10NAL NORMATION I~
It •BOO•SUNCHASEI 
~~ 
------~~------­
--------------------------------------------------~----~--~---------------------------------~ ----­page4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 3, 1994 

Defense nominee warns of Korean 'nightmare scenario' 
By JOHN DIAMOND regime of North Korea acquir­Associated Press ing a nuclear weapons capabil­ity to add to their massive con­WASHINGTON ventional forces is emblematic 
President Clinton's choice for of proliferation problems we defense secretary told the Sen­face," Perry said. ate at his confirmation hearing Perry said the United States is today that the United States pursuing aggressive "diplomat­faces a possible "nightmare ic efforts to deal with this night­scenario" in Korea_ mare scenario," and said the 
William Perry, now the No_ 2 presence of 100,000 U.S. sol­man at the Pentagon, said the diers, sailors and airmen in the end of the Cold War has not Western Pacific serves as a eliminated the military threats deterrent. facing the United States_ 
"Old threats can still pose In Russia, Perry predicted, new dangers to peace and se­the path to democracy and sta­curity -I refer to the potential bility will be "rocky and twist­for conflict on the Korean ed." He said that the Clinton peninsula," Perry told the administration hopes to use Senate Armed Services Com­diplomacy in promoting Rus­mittee_ sian democracy. 
"The prospect of the rogue The main challenge facing the 
"AIDS is not a serious problem 
on this campus." Rocca, in an interview yesterday, clarified continued from page 1 his remarks. Although AIDS is not a prob­
AIDS 
more," he said. 

lem at Notre Dame in terms of••• the number of cases reported,
In yesterday's installment of Rocca said the disease has the 
the "Campuses Responds to 
potential to be as serious an is­
AIDS" series, Father Peter sue as student alcohol use. 
Rocca, assistant vice president "The danger is very real to our 
for student affairs, said that students," he said. 
Rules 
continued from page 1 

ing ticket was accused of violat­ing an election rule by cam­paigning on election day. The candidates had distributed fly­ers outside South Dining Hall the afternoon of the election. Gallo and Browning asserted that they were not aware that they were committing a viola­tion because the rules were vague about the correct cam­paign times. 
Right 
continued from page 1 

at home with doctors on the margin. Only until yesterday did some faceless elite in white coat take this form of death away from us," said Robinson. 
When asked if the right to die was a constitutional right, Robinson answered that no court has ruled that it is. He added that the current Supreme Court would not de­cide in this manner either. 
"We didn't really effectively communicate what the exact dates were," said Alfers. 
Traditionally, the campaign period began one week before the election, with no campaign­ing on election day. 
"Everybody assumed that meant there was no campaign­ing on election day," said Alfers. 
In their revised form the by­laws state that "the campaign­ing period shall begin at 12:00 
a.m. on the frrst day and end at 
12:00 a.m. on the morning of election day." 
Both professors agreed that the law should not permit as­sisted suicide and that suicide is wrong. However, Robinson admitted that the legal and po­litical systems are likely to le­galize assisted suicide. 
Legal committees would take petitions from people request­ing assisted suicide and decide on them. Robinson bet every­one at the forum that by the year 2000, five states will have legally assisted suicide, namely Florida, Washington D.C. and California. 
The NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt 



Volunteers Needed 
Organizational Meeting: Thursday, February 3 7:00pm La Fortune Ballroom 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
defense secretary, Perry said, is the decline of defense spending at a time of world instability. 
"Historically, we have not managed well such budget de­clines," Perry said. "This time we must get it right or we will pay the cost later, either in blood or treasure or both." 
Perry, the soft-spoken," book­ish mathematician known in the Pentagon as the "Godfather of Stealth," brought his family before a welcoming and recep­tive committee. 
Perry was nominated to re­place outgoing Defense Secre­tary Les Aspin. after Adm. Bobby Inman was offered the job by Clinton but then backed out. 
Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., the committee chairman, said Tuesday there was a chance Perry could be confirmed this week. "I think he'll do a very fine job," Nunn said. 
Perry, 66, founded high-tech defense companies, directed military research under Presi­dent Carter, and became a mil­lionaire as a consultant to major weapons makers. The research he led at the Pentagon was into a little-known technol­ogy for evading radar -thus the "stealth" nickname. 
He comes to Capitol Hill a week after Clinton told Congress, "We must not cut de­fense further," and days before the president presents a $264 billion defense budget -a slight increase over this year's defense plan. 
The Senate also has been voicing increasing alarm about tensions in Korea and the need to stem the violence in the for­mer Yugoslavia. 
Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, said he is concerned that cuts "may become the seed for the next crisis." The ranking Republican on the committee, Sen. Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, said, "Defense has been cut past the fat into the bone." 
Some lawmakers who praise Perry question his clout within the Clinton administration. 
"He's a fine, decent person, but he's not making these poli­cies," said Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. "National security is­sues are getting more and more severe and I have lHss and less confidence in this ad­

B111boven's2"(P8): 1:00, 3:00,5:15, 7:15 BIIDk(R): 1:45, 4:30, 7:30, 10:00 Grumpy Old MII(P813): 1:15,4:15,6:45, 9:00 lnla WIII(PG): 12:15,2:30, 5:00, 7:30,9:45 Phlladelphla(P813): 1:30, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 Tbe PIIICM Brlei(PG13): 12:30, 4:00, 7:00, 10:00 Tlllllllstoaa(R): 10:15 
ministration's ability to address them." 
Perry faces tough questioning on whether the United States could fight two regional wars nearly simultaneously, as he and Aspin maintained last fall. Senators also want to know how the administration will close a gap of some $31 billion in the five-year defense budget plan. 
And Republicans are pre­pared to pummel Clinton's pos­ture toward the possible devel­opment of nuclear weapons by North Korea. 
A major priority of Perry's for the coming year will be reform of the Pentagon's byzantine procurement rules. But some lawmakers say Perry has exag­gerated his estimates of how much such a program would save. 
As an advocate of sophisti­cated weapons, Perry also faces questions about whether ambi­tious research and exotic weapons such as the B-2 stealth bomber are draining funds from basic military readi­ness. 

HAPPY 21ST 




ERICA!
Mn. Ooubtllre(PG13):4:15, 7:15, 9:45 ThD Air Up Tbere(PG): 
4:30, 7:00, 9:30 Weyae's World 2(P813): 
LOVE, 
5:00, 7:30, 10:00 

MOM, DAD AND NEAL 
Career Opportunities 
For Computer Programmers 
CSC Intelicom TRIS Division, located in Champaign, Illinois (home of the University of Illinois), provides software and billing solutions for the fast growing wireless communications industry. We are a subsidiary of Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC), a $2.5 billion multi-national corporation and leader in the field of systems integration. 
Due to the tremendous growth of the cellular industry in 1993, we expect our organization to grow by 50% over the next 18 months. We need to hire several bright, energetic individuals with superlative programming skills for our Software Development group, so we will be interviewing for UNIX C and mainframe COBOL software engineers. CSC Intelicom offers a excellent compensation and benefits package which includes medical, dental, life, disability, 401 K and profit sharing. 
We will be on campus recruiting Computer Science and MIS majors on Tuesday, February 22. If you are interested in helping to create part of the future of the wireless industry, sign up on February 7 or 8 in the Career and Placement Services Office. 
Thursday, February 3, 1994 page 5 

Japanese rocket countdown begins 

~N Esll~ ~'t' ~ 


-....; 0 
~ Spanish Mass r­
domingo, 6 de Febrero de 1994 
11:30 a.m. 
BREEN·PHILUPS CHAPEL 
Celebrante Padre Bruce Cecil, c.s.c. 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 

By DAVID THURBER 
Associated Press 
TANEGASHIMA 

Japan readied its first major rocket for a maiden launch on Thursday, as it seeks to enter the international satellite launching business and become independent from the United States. 
The countdown was stopped at least temporarily, however, shortly before midnight when technicians discovered a tem­perature control hose was not attached to the payload. It was not immediately clear how long a delay might be required for repairs. 
The orange and yellow H-11, one of the world's most ad­vanced rockets, was developed completely in Japan at a cost of $2.4 billion. 
It would free Japan from U.S. veto power over launches of third-nation satellites, a condi­tion set in the licensing agree· ment for American technology used in Japan's previous rock­ets. 
Analysts predict the H-ll's ex­pensive leading-edge technol­ogy will make it a technical suc­cess but a commercial flop. 

Cancun Mexico nom$439 Negril Jamaica rrom$449 Montego Bay Jamaica rrom$419 Daytona Beach, FL rrom$149 Panama City Beach, FL f,om$129 
a 
Call for a Local 
Representative 

120 North Au,._ 5t.,lfhac:q, NY 1o4B50 
"If they make any money at all, it will be through commer­cial spinoffs of technology, not satellite launching," says Tara Mass, an analyst in Tokyo for Jardine Fleming Securities. 
National Space Development Agency of Japan (NASDA) offi­cials say some of the H-II's technology may be applied to future planes and cars. 
"It also allows us indepen­dence from the United States at a time when the Clinton admin­istration is cutting back on big projects like the U.S. space sta­tion, which we've been count­ing on participating in," says NASDA spokesman Shoshin Sonoda. 
Privately, some space officials say the H-11 reflects a lack of di­rection in Japanese space poli­cy rather than a concerted effort to break into the com­mercial launching market. 
The rocket has few potential military applications. Although it could reach other continents, its high-performance engines use volatile liquid oxygen and hydrogen, which require more than half a day to load, instead of the solid fuels used by most 
Perfect Pinkies Tanning 
Receive goggles and accelerator packet FREE with this ad 
In the Georgetown Center 
271-7121 
Other Packages Available 


ll§CQ) 

missiles. 
Japan already has advanced solid-fuel rocket technology. 
In its current version, the H-11 also is inappropriate for manned space travel. which would require a re-engineering of its main engine. 
NASDA engineers say they did not originally intend for the H-11 to be a commercial launcher. and probably would have designed it differently if they had. 
When plans for the H-11 were made nearly a decade ago, the 
U.S. space shuttle and Europe's Arianespace dominated the small commercial satellite launching business. 
Since then, China, Russia and two American companies have entered the growing market, driving down prices and creat­ing a glut of launch vehicles. 
Europe's Arianespace holds about 60 percent of the market, now estimated at $2 billion a year. 
Its workhorse Ariane 4 rocket can lift a 2.3-ton payload into geostationary orbit, slightly more than the H-Il's 2-ton ca­pacity. 
The H-II's high technology and the strong Japanese yen, however, have boosted its price tag to about $145 million, near­ly twice the Ariane's cost. 
NASDA hopes to compensate with a reputation for reliability, making the H-II's maiden launch all the more important. 
NASDA has amassed an envi­able record of 24 straight launch successes with earlier rockets. 

International Festival 
Saturday, February 5th 8:00p.m. Washington Hall 
Admission: Students $3.00 General Admission $5.00 
Tickets available at LaFortune Information Desk, at the door, and in ISO affairs office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
Enjoy an evening with us. An evening full ofdances, songs and acts from all over the globe. 
ATTENTiON 0--lc Q-UDENrS: 
DO YOU LiKE: TO +-!E:LP OT+-!E:QS? l(\JTE:QESTE:D i(\J VOLU(\J£6E:Q.i(\JG? 
T{...l£1\J cOI\JrACT r{-1£ ~CA(<.V OPFiC£ Ar Xs3G.g 
012. C+-l£CK r+-l£ VoLCA~Tt;:t;:(.<. 50AQP5 iN: HAGGAQ, L81AI\JS OQ. r{-16 ~UQ.V OPPiC£ 
'10UQ riM£ WiLL B£ GQ.£ArL Y APPQ.£CiAr£D! 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 3, 1994 
Senate passes authorization bill 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Legislation spiced with mes­sages to the administration on the need for a more aggressive foreign policy won easy passage in the Senate on Wednesday. 
The $12.4 billion State De­partment budget bill, which passed 92-8, includes amend­ments urging an end to the arms embargo in Bosnia and recommending that tactical nu­clear weapons be reintroduced in South Korea if North Korea does not abandon its nuclear ambitions. 
One amendment passed last week, pressing the administra­tion to lift the 19-year-old trade embargo on Vietnam, may have had an immediate effect: Ad­ministration officials say Presi­dent Clinton has been advised to eliminate the sanctions and will do so soon. 
The bill, which now must be reconciled with the House ver­sion, authorizes $6.1 billion in fiscal 1994 and $6.3 billion in fiscal 1995 for the State Department, the U.S. Information Agency and the Peace Corps. 
It provides $900 million over the two-year period for peace­keeping missions, but excludes $175 million requested for an international peacekeeping contingency fund. 
It compels the administration to carry out foreign aid and State Department personnel reform, and limits the number of senior foreign service offi­cers. It seeks a speedup in computerization of visa requests to prevent the entry of suspected terrorists. 
But it was the amendments on Vietnam, Korea and other issues that most revealed the senators' attitudes toward ad­ministration policies. 
-In a non-binding vote, they urged unilateral action to end the embargo on arms ship­ments to the Muslim govern­

11DYNAMITE! 
A full-throttle blast of action and fireworks. a savagely funny thrill ride. Slater and Arquette make a wildly comic and sexy pair.",,.,, ...... •o'""o"c" 
christian slater patricia arquette 
lrqaeHt ud Siller

"****
ue dyumile~ 

-S...... Wloaayu. USA TODAY 
·rumAND mun: 
-1aot No11iD. THE IIEW YORI tDIES 

"VVVVD AND SEDUCTIVE." 
-lllclwd Codlsa. TIME MAGAZIIIE 

"TIIBILLS AND COMEDY shaken up into one provocative cocktail" 
-r-Gli&tto. P£OPU: MAGAZIKE 
tii!Diliu 


J : . I ~ , I ' , ' ~ ... 
, ~ ; ~ '! ,., . : 
dennis hopper val kilmer gary oldman brad pitt christopher walken 
DlllllatiWII!Imtii!Dilu11W~ ft11/JIIll1lllllfalll!ll WUJ WIUIIJ IWml 
1!1110ar.ll!11111!1mltlii!Bl!IIIBr.IJN!IQIIBllllmiiiiiWIIIIWIIIllltllllllllllllaut 1111m.ll~IUIItW!liJIIIIIIIIIII lWllll 1111r.~WIU I rulllll I' !RI..;!:::::~~ ID!IIIg~ ...... ..·:··~~• 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 AND 9:45 
CALL 631-1761 FOR TIMES AND DATES FOR ALL CINEMA AT THE SNITE FILMS. 
ment in Bosnia. The adminis­ 
tration wants to end the em­ 
bargo but says it must be a U.N.  
decision.  
-They sought to bar arms  
sales to any country that en­ 
forces the Arab League boycott  
on U.S. companies that do busi­ 
ness with Israel.  
-They praised Clinton's  
Partnership for Peace plan that  
allows East European countries  
to participate in NATO activities  
but said it doesn't go far  
enough and urged that those  
nations soon be accepted as full  
members.  
-They said U.S. contribu­ 
tions to the United Nations  
should be cut 10 percent in  
1994, and 20 percent in 1995,  
if the U.N. does not appoint an  
independent inspector to clean  
up waste and inefficiency.  
-They maintained the inde­ 
pendent status but cut funding  
for Radio Free Europe and Ra­ 
dio Liberty while forming a new  
Radio Free Asia. All three are  
to be consolidated under the  
USIA.  
The Observer/ Alan Smith  
A comedian and member of the Irish Accent Comedy troupe per­ 
forms at the LaFortune ballroom.  

What Is S.U.B.??? 
S.U.B. stands for Student Union Board 
It is the campus organization responsible for many of the social activities that take place at Notre Dame 
Concerts, speakers, comedians, Acoustic Cafe, Sophomore Literary Festival, Collegiate Jazz Festival, and Antostle are just some of the many exciting activities that S.U.B. is responsible for 
Become a part of your social experience! 
Applications are auailable in the Student Gouernment office for all eHecutiue positions 
Appl \cations due by Feb .15_B 
Thursday, February 4, 1994 
The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Prime ministers visit Sarajevo 
By SRECKO IATAL 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 

As Serbs fired from sur­rounding hills, Benazir Bhutto and Tansu Ciller -women who beat the odds to lead Muslim nations -came to Sarajevo Wednesday to comfort its be­sieged residents. 
After a brief visit to the capi­tal defended by Muslim-led forces, prime ministers Bhutto of Pakistan and Ciller of Turkey appealed to the world to act decisively to the 21-month-old war. 
Turkey and Pakistan have been among the strongest back­ers of Bosnia's Muslim-led gov­ernment, whose troops are fighting a desperate battle against better-armed Bosnian Serbs and Bosnian Croats. 
"Rarely in the annals of hu­man history has a nation been subjected to such merciless savagery in the full view of the world," Mrs. Bhutto and Ms. Ciller said in a joint statement. 
"We who live in peace take life and peace for granted," Mrs. Bhutto said later. "In Sarajevo, we saw shattered people, a shattered city and shattered lives." 
Elsewhere in the city, at least five people were killed by Serb shelling Wednesday. 
Mrs. Bhutto later called for air strikes against Bosnian Serbs and exempting the Slavic Muslim-led government from a 
. •, ; 

U.N. arms embargo imposed on former Yugoslavia. She spoke in Zagreb, Croatia. 
Bosnia's Muslim president, Alija Izetbegovic, said the two were ready to give "material and other help to our country. I thank them for that." He was not specific. 
The visit was welcomed by most Sarajevans, regardless of religion or nationality. Many Bosnian Croats and Serbs re­main loyal to the Muslim-led government. 
Sporadic gunfire sounded from the Serb-held hillsides surrounding the city as Mrs. Bhutto and Ms. Ciller arrived at the downtown Bosnian presi­dency building. A crowd of about 150 braved the dangers of the open street to cheer the two premiers and shout "Bosnia, Bosnia!" 
"Turkey and Pakistan are our biggest friends," said Mustafa Jusufbegovic, 70, a Muslim in the crowd. 
Two women burst into tears as they tried to get close to the entrance of the presidency building. ''I'm crying because I'm hungry, I'm on the street, I'm cold, and all I want is peace," said Rabija Besic. 
The two visitors visited for four hours, but Mrs. Bhutto said the brief stay was "cruel" and left them "emotionally ex­hausted." 
She said U.N. Secretary Gen­eral Boutros Boutros-Ghali should approve air strikes against Bosnian Serbs defying 
U.N. 
aims -something that NATO says it's ready to do with 

U.N. 
approval. 


She also urged Boutros-Ghali to exempt the Bosnian gov­ernment from the arms em­bargo imposed on all warring parties, and said "the United States should take the lead in lifting of the embargo." The United States favors lifting the embargo on the Muslims. 
The Pakistani leader said that during a visit to a hospital she was "struck by how tiny the babies there were," she said. "We were told by the doctors there that, as each month of the war goes by, babies get tinier and tinier. 
Earlier, in their joint state­ment before leaving Sarajevo, the two denounced the "appalling human tragedy be­ing enacted in the heart of a continent that prides itself on its commitment to human rights and respect for human dignity." 
War broke out in April 1992 when Bosnia's minority Serbs, armed by the Serb-led Yugoslav federal army, launched a vio­lent grab for territory after the republic's Muslims and Croats voted for independence from Yugoslavia. 
The war has left at least 200,000 Bosnians dead or miss­ing and hundreds of thousands homeless. 
·. & CD COLLECTOR'S 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 6 1 0 A.M. -5 P.M. ADMISSION $3 
AT: THE HOLIDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) 51 5 DIXIEWAY NORTH US 3 I -33 NORTH $ I OFF ADMISSION WITH THIS AD 
BUY • SELL • TRADE 
MUSIC COLLEGIBLES FROM THE SO'S • 60'S • 70'S • 80'S • 90'S 
LP's-CO's-45's -I 2 inch singles-imports posters -magazines -books -concert photos -videos t-shirts -cassettes -pins-patches and much morel 
FOR DEALER INFO CALL BLAIN AT (616) 375-2776 DOOR PRIZES 
SOUNDS UNLIMITED PRODUTION 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments .at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY 


Now TAKING APPUCATIONS FoR '94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FoR MoRE INFORMATION CALL 




232-8256 
STILL NEEDED FOR JPW: 
\\/AlTERS AND WAITRESSES FOOD SERVICE HELPERS 
I 

SHIFTS AVAILABLE SAT FEB 19 
SUN FEB 20 
LOWER LEVEL -SOUTH DINING HALL CATERING EMPLOYMENT OFFICE OFFICE HOURS: MON 11-4PM TUES -FRI 10AM-4:30PM SPECIAL TI~1E SAT-10A~1-2P~1 
pageS The Observer • ISRAEL NEWS Thursday, February 3, 1994 
Rabin: Miracle needed for speedy Palestinian accord 
By NEIL MacFARQUHAR Associated Press Writer 
JERUSALEM 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin urged caution in expectations for talks with the PLO, saying Wednesday that it would take a miracle to resolve all the re­maining differences in next week's bargaining session. 
The PLO warned that further delays in starting Palestinian autonomy would damage the peace process. In the latest vio­lence tied to unrest over the peace talks, three Jewish set­tlers were wounded in a drive­by shooting in the occupied West Bank. 
Rabin condemned the attack as an attempt to harm peace efforts, but he also lashed out at Jewish extremists for "idiotic actions" that distract the army from protecting people. He cited efforts to set up unautho­rized settlements in the occu­pied lands. 
Israel has taken a pro­nounced step back from the optimistic statements that emerged from a weekend meet­ing between Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and PLO leader Yasser Arafat in Davos, Switzerland. 
The initial spin was that only a little more time was needed to prepare a final draft of an accord. But the government is now stressing the number of intrieate details still to be nego­tiated before Israel can start transferring authority to the PLO in the Gaza Strip and West Bank region of Jericho. 
Peres is due back from talks in Washington to review with Rabin the details of a potential agre,ement based on the Davos talks. 
"I believe that the progress from Davos will help, but it will take time, and only a miracle would make it possible to reach that in a week," Rabin told re­porters. 
He noted that negotiations on economic matters and on the details of transferring authority in such areas as education and tourism had been suspended while both sides prepared for the Davos talks. All have to be part of a final implementation agreement. 
Rabin predicted it would take a few more weeks to reach the kind of detailed accord that would prevent misunderstand­ings once self-rule begins. 
In Egypt, the chief Palestinian negotiator, Nabil Shaath, said Israel had decided to delay a resumption of the lower-level discussions to prepare for another Peres-Arafat meeting next week in Cairo. 
He said he accepted that Is­rael was involved in an internal debate over what Peres negoti­ated in Switzerland, "but one cannot afford the lost time." 
Arafat, interviewed on Amer­ican television, said, "If this delay continues, the peace pro­cess will lose its credibility." 
In the West Bank town of He­bron, Palestinian gunmen fired on a car carrying Jewish resi­dents of the Kiryat Arba set­tlement, gravely wounding three. The militant Hamas movement, which opposes the peace process, claimed re­sponsibility in a leaflet. 
Rabin complained about an illegal campaign by Jewish set­tlers to set up "shadow settle­ments" throughout the territo­ries to protest the autonomy talks. He said soldiers should be combating violence rather than dealing with "all the extremists among the settlers who distract our forces from fighting terror­ism with their idiotic actions." 

He said he remained commit­ted to existing Jewish settle­ments. But he added: "In my humble opinion many of them have no justification whatso­ever. They don't contribute whatsoever to Israel's secu­rity." 
Settlers attempted again to set up an unauthorized en­campment Wednesday night, Israel television reported, this time near the West Bank set­tlement ofYakir. The effort was part of "Operation Double," which seeks to double the 130 existing settlements and bring the government down. 
Earlier in the day, the army imposed a ban on Jewish demonstrations in Arab areas and then kept a group of set­tlers out of an ancient syna­gogue in Jericho. 
Yitzhak Peres: Yassir Arafat no longer seeks statehood 
By BARRY SCHWEID PLO was not seeking statehood, upon will reflected negatively territory Israel captured in what kind of peace Syria would Associated Press Writer long its most cherished objec­on the credibility of the peace 1967 that serves as a buffer provide in exchange. tive. process and not only against between the two countries. Is­Assad projects himself as WASHINGTON Jordan controlled the West the Palestinians, but against the rael has said it was willing to "not just the leader of Syria but 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shi­Bank and East Jerusalem from Israelis, against the co-spon­relinquish at least part of the as the leader of the Arab mon Peres today said PLO 1948 until 1967. While several sors." territory but had to know first world," Peres said. Chairman Yasser Arafat is try­Israeli governments have con­The United States and Russia ing to link the West Bank to sidered returning at least part are the co-sponsors of the ne­Jordan in a confederation of the territory, but not gotiations, which began 27 rather than to establish a sepa­Jerusalem, King Hussein has months ago. rate Palestinian state on the said the Palestinians and the "My people are suffering. My 

YOU CAN SEND YOUR 
land Israel captured in the PLO should determine the people are suffering from the 1967 Middle East war. area's future. continued oppression of this Is­
"SPECIAL SOMEONE" 


Peres also said he had pro­raeli occupation. You have to posed early municipal elections Peres said the negotiations to understand, we are paying the A VALENTINE MESSAGE ON among the Palestinians who implement the Israeli-PLO daily losses," Arafat said. 
VALENTINES DAY FOR $20.00
live on the West Bank but Israel agreement could be coneluded was agreeable to national elec­"relatively quickly, easily." And On another front, Peres de­tions there as an alternative. he said Arafat had assured him scribed Israel's negotiations The ad would be this size and must be submitted by 1:00 p.m. 
In either case, "elections may the PLO was "interested in pro­here with Syria as at a stand­on Thursday, Feb. 10 to the advertising department for 
take years," Peres said in a viding security" for Israel's set­still. "We still don't have an 
The Observer (3rdjloor LaFortune) 
mixed account of his negotia­tlers. idea what Syria means by tions with Arafat last week in However, Peres said, some peace or what Syria plans to do Geneva on implementing last details still must be resolved, to replace advantages in the 

Forfurther information, call 631 
year's agreement to establish though he declared with a Golan Heights with new Palestinian self-rule on the chuc:kle most of them would parameters of defense." West Bank and in Gaza. have no significance within two Peres referred to the strategic 


"He said he is not aiming to build a separate Palestinian state, but a confederation with Jordan," Peres told a group of reporters and former U.S. gov­ernment officials at the Wash­ington Institute for Near East policy, a research group. 
Peres made a similar state­ment to Israeli reporters on Tuesday. He provided no elabo­ration. Nor did the foreign min­ister explain why Israel would be willing to hold national elec­tions on the West Bank if the or three years. 
Th,e first stage of the agree­ment calls for Israel to turn over control of Gaza and Jericho to the Palestinians. The rest of the West Bank would be put under Palestinian self-rule in a second stage. It is the ne­gotiations over second stage, particularly the holding of elec­tions, that could take time, Peres said. 
Meanwhile, Arafat told ABC­TV "the delay of the implemen­tatimt of what had been agreed 



~~~ 

~ Speaks for Itself ~ CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
9 Month -10 Month -12 Month Leases FURNISHED APARTMENTS, ALL UTILITIES COVERED, CENTRAL AIR Wide open spaces, well appointed apartments. Indoor Pool &Jacuzzi. Sports activity area. Weight machine, 24 Hour Laundry. 
STUDENT ACCOMODATION AND CARE AT AfFORDABLE PRICES. WE TAKE SECURITY AND SAFElY SERIOUSLY. 
Visit Our Office and Meet Our Staff Call Dorene NOW 
272--1441 

God gives each persononelifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-63RS 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 3, 1994 
THE OBSERVER NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. ·Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 1993-94 General Board Editor-in-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .................... .Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor ..........•................... Suzy Fl)' Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .......•............ George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ CheJYI Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Batrh Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Muy's Editor .........•... Jennifer HabiJ'ch Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universil)' of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoril)' of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint MaJY's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631·5323 Office Manager 631-7471  
EDITORIAL  
AIDS non-policy is irresponsible Consider: • By age 20, 86 percent of men and 77 percent of women report that they have had sexual intercourse. • The Universitv's AIDS guidelines have not been revised in almost eight years. This policy calls for a commitment to education, but for Notre Dame. AIDS education is a bad joke whispered behind closed doors and sexual education means holding an annual seminar for resident assistants or sponsoring an annual speaker. Current projects ­including the AIDS Quilt ­are primarily student-run activities. · Ironic, especially for a place that strives to be among the elite higher educational institutions. Even if everyone did obey duLac, it is ignorant for the adminis­tration to believe that AIDS does not affect the lives of students. AIDS long ago ceased to be a disease just affecting gays and drug users. Students here are not immune to AIDS. It is dangerous for the administration to take a reactive stance on such a volatile issue. With no cure for AIDS, waiting for the disease to become a problem and then developing a response is irresponsible. The time has come for the administration to develop a coher­ent, practical policy on AIDS education and then work to imple­ment it. University officials say they've tried and the students are not interested. They've initiated open forums in the dorms and invit­ed speakers but students haven't shown up. Students know the administration is not really that incompe­tent. The powers-that-be know students are not going to ask to be educated and aren't going to attend a forum led by a celibate priest pushing abstinence and the rhythm method. This improbable line on AIDS education comes from the same people who brought us the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education, a staff promoting its message with weekly advertisements in The Observer and forums in the residence halls. Apparently it is acceptable for a Catholic university to admit it has students who drink too much. But not that it has students who are homosexual. Not that it has students who are sexually harassed. Not that AIDS could be a problem. It is bold-faced irresponsibility for the University to turn its back on an issue as pressing for its community as AIDS. If it doesn't address the issue, how can it ever expect the student body to do so? On tomorrow"s Viewpoint page. The Observer considers ways to improve AIDS education on campus.  

Dear Editor: 
In the midst of a campus­wide political race, the sole daily periodical should not endorse or favor one ticket over another. The Observer's endorsement demonstrates poor journalistic integrity. For many students who are unfa­miliar with the work of student government, an open endorse­ment on the front page of The Observer is far too persuasive to be consistent with the goals of a daily newspaper, which are primarily to inform without bias or prejudice. 
As a representative of the Freshman class, I find The Observer's actions particularly inappropriate. Most freshmen 
DOONESBURY 
HtY, DU0<5, 
DID YOU, ON TH/3 IAJIR&­
I HEARD YOU 
AliCE.? U3S~ 7H& 0711&1<. 
\

NI6HT.1 
I 5/.JR& IJIO/ GAY, AL-ICE. YOU aJa<b TAJJ<-AS IN I-I£T£RO­ING AWUTHOW 5£XIJAUY CJ(A~­HARI?17alA~ 1£N6fl?. I 
TO1?6HAPPY.' 
\ 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Observer editorial endorsen1ent: 
Demonstration of poor journalistic integrity 

do not know, nor have they ever met any of the candidates. 
'As a representative 
of the Freshman class, I find The Observer's actions par­ticularly inappropriate.' 
Furthermore, although most of the issues speak to needs, be­cause of the strict structure and available advising of the Freshman Year of Studies, we know little about university re­quirements, DART and faculty advising. An endorsement by The Observer is inappropriate because of its influence on freshmen. 
The Observer should encour­age voters to consider the issues, their personal interests, and the interests of the Notre Dame community, not what five students on an editorial board think. 
TOMMATZZIE 
Freshman Class President Grace Hall 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
H&T&R05EX.UAUY YOU'R£AN 
A(;lUAU~ I
CHAueN(£{)? OUTCA~T! 
l'MA UNWR­
FOR. TH/5 UJV!i A PARIAH.' 
IA7TL-t STAND.
Of fj)~ At!C/3, 6/V/5HIM 
5HO!<T, __.''-11""""-v'
OON'T "!AU< TO 50M/3 
[}/.JCI<S.
TH6MAN' CHANG~ 
AUC£:! I 

((Ifvoting changed anything, 
they'd make it illegal." 
--Badge, London, 1983 
~-------, 

This special section features the candidates for Notre Dame Student Body President and Vice-President. The platforms, general information and short-answer responses were wrjtten by the candidates in response to a questionnaire provided by The Observer. 
Caricatures by David Devine. 
Corbett-DuBay 
Student government exists to satisfy the needs of the students. Those needs are best addressed through the creation of realistic proposals imple­mented by experienced leaders. 
As the only candidate with campus-wide experience, Bryan Corbett has an understanding of the complex system of government at the university level. As the Junior Class President, a Student Body Senator, and a member of the Task Force on Undergraduate Education, Corbett qas proven his ability to take ideas from the individual level and implement them as concrete pro­grams across campus. 
Karen DuBay is in constant contact with the everyday needs of students as Co-President of Breen-Phillips. As a member of HPC and the Student Senate, DuBay focuses her attenltion on the individual needs of her dorm while remaining involved with general campus concerns. 
Our diverse experience has taught us that visionary ideas only lead to unfulfilled promises. Our platform consists of realistic and attain­able goals which specifically address the needs of students. Each pro­posal has been researched extensively wiith university officials, includ­ing the Head Registrar as well as members of the National Alumni Board, to ensure that our ideas are achievable. 
Experienced leadership entails the ability to translate students' con­cerns and ideas into practical policy. We offer students campuswide knowledge in student government as well as a background in relating with students at a more personal level. 
Our experience, realism, and commitment to listen to student concerns make us an effective team to represent the Notre Dame student body. 

Hungeling-Orsagh 
We would like to offer the students at Notre Dame an alternative at over .035 billion dollars. We feel that it would be a good gesture this election. We believe that the office of student body president for the University to offer the students their football tickets for and vice-president should be held by people who want to have fun. free. The relative ease with which this goal could be achieved is This office should not necessarily act as a stepping stone for ambi­almost unbelievable. All it would take is an increase in the ticket tious young politicians who one day hope to rule the world. prices of general admission tickets by 2 U.S. dollars. Two dolars 
We are not going to law school, and neither of us are looking for extra per ticket over the course of the season will generate enough a resume booster. Hell, we're not even banking on graduating. We income to offset the loss involved in offering free student tickets. If simply want to try something really cool. We want to bring the the University does not go along with our offer we will be prepared Grateful Dead to Notre Dame. We wiill to wage an all out smear campaign exposing the University's stay committed to our goals, and tremendous greed . we promise that we will not run .J While we will basically render student government useless dur­student government as it has ing our administration we plan to continue keeping an office, and been run in the past. will set up two phone lines which will facilitate the implemen­
As part of our ultimate tation of our platform. We will use one line to accept phone plan to bring the Dead to calls from the student body keeping us informed about student campus, it will be necessary concerns. The second line will be used to call to all but shut down student ~ Fr. Malloy, Patty O'Hara, E.J. Debartolo, government. This action ' and other influential people to keep will free up over $50,000 them up to date with those concerns. which can then be used to We will call these University offi­realize our dream. By giving this cials every single day of our admin­money to the Student Union Board it istration relying on harassment as will increase the board's budget to a means of introducing change. We over $200,000. are not certain that this will be 
In addition to this, we will work with effective, but we are definitely SUB and possibly an outside promoter to sure that using parliamen­achieve our goal of bringing the Dead to tary procedure and other Notre Dame. The parts of student govern­University dictated rules do ment which we plan on cutting are such not work (e.g. drafting things as administrative costs, money used reports, and nicely typing for public relations, special projects, proposals). Board of Trustee's reports, the We would like to stress, how­Guide, and various other wasteful ever, that we will focus most of programs. We will also refuse to our energies on achieving the Grateful call weekly student senate Dead and free football tickets. Our main meetings. purpose will be to entertain and to provide the 
In the past, student senate students with fun. Bringing about significant meetings have accomplished social change is not a primary concern. At wonderful things like establish­times it is necessary to fight for change, like ing a committee to study the when the cafeteria does not offer enough dif­harmful effects of rain puddles ferent flavors of salad dressing. on campus sidewalks, and the public Right now we feel very happy with the variety condemnation of Sinead O'Connor following her performance on of dressings, and we feel it is time to celebrate Saturday Night Live one year ago. This is what student govern­the progress which has been made. If and when we rule, stu­ment should not do. Instead it should work at bringing fun things dent government will not do much of any governmental work. The to campus. There is no need to spend time and money on anything University already does all of that regardless of what tool is in which will not result in the direct pleasure of our student body. place at the head of student government. All we want to do is College should be fun. bring more fun to Notre Dame. 
In addition to this we plan on coming up with a proposal for the We do not care about walking across campus, darting, laundry, University demanding that Notre Dame ceases the blatant thievery or making studying any easier. Any well adjusted adult should be which it imposes on students who purchase football tickets. Every able to handle that on their own. We will not adjust people. If year the University rakes in over half a million dollars from the there are some students who are too lazy or incompetent to func­collective sale of student football tickets. This is in addition to all of tion here at Notre Dame, we are dearly sorry, but student govern­the money the University is making from its contract with NBC. ment will not be able to fix that. We are going to have fun next The extension on the contract which just took place is estimated year, and we would really like to bring everyone along for the ride. 



Coughlin-Capua 
c -. 
fo;~~;~~~~~~~~~~~ts~~::n~~:~~~t t~n:e~!~~~~e::~~~!:sc~~:~~~ :~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~t~l~:!~0unaware *1'1)-,Q
to the administration. However, to accomplish these goals, of what classes he or she still needs to take 'A ~ Student Government must present clear, well researched, and in order to graduate. While the Req Sheet -< V. ~ 
attainable proposals. We believe that all of our ideas fit this mold. simplifies the registration process, it does notre-V ..Jn Our main goal is to present the student body with a platform of place the faculty advising. However, by working with ~6 ideas that are feasible. We will not promise to give you anything the various academic depart-~ that we know we cannot deliver. Nor will we offer you ideas ments, we hope to create a consis­which have been tried in the past and have failed. Our platform is tent advising program for all stu­original and feasible; in fact many people in the University are dents. already willing to work with us to make our ideas realities. Finally, we want to address the 
Safety is a concern for every student. Our awareness of the issue of study space. In light of issue has only been heightened by the growing number of inci-the conversion of classrooms in dents both on and off campus. We met recently with Mr. Rex the Security building to office Rakow. the head of Notre Dame Security. and Karen Kipp, the stu-space, alternative space must be dent coordinator of Safe Walk, to discuss these provided. By working in conjunc­concerns. In response to the growing con-tion with Support Services and cern of students, and in coordination with Human Resources, we feel confi­both NO security and Safe Walk, the dent that at least one of the Col-idea of "Safe Ride" was born. "Safe lowing spaces can be opened for Ride" will offer students shuttle ser-after-hour study space: classrooms vice from the outer parking lots, 02 in O'Shaughnessy Hall; classrooms in and 06, to their dorms after dark. Hurley; two rooms in the Security Students wishing to use "Safe Ride" building; or one half of the South din-can either wait in their cars with ing hall. It is our hope that the their lights on (as they do now, University will see the need for when they need help from secu-more study space. Moreover, rity) or they can use any one of the we hope that by first presenting security call boxes on campus. a proposal for more study This service will run seven days a space we can also convince the week, from dusk until dawn. University to create more twenty-Some students have mentioned four hour social space, as was their concern over the cost of recommended in the Colloquy this service: however, by follow-for the Year 2000. ing Safe Walk's example, we Creative ideas and good people working hard to achieve can pay for the first semester, then their goals are what it takes for Student Government to be demonstrate the usefulness of "Safe · effective. Many of these goals deal with the long term objectives of Ride" and petition the Board of Trustees to help cover the costs. the University and how they affect the student body. Student 
Our second idea is the Req Sheet. Advising is a problem for Government helps shape the direction of the University by demon-many students. Our idea is to provide each student with a list of strating valid concerns and presenting viable solutions to the the classes he or she has taken and the requirements that those administration. classes have fulfilled. The Req sheet will list University, college, We feel that our platform and working style best embody what and major requirements. Providing students with a current list of Student Govermnent should be: students working together with the classes they have taken, as well as those requirements they the administration in a constant effort to improve life on our cam-have yet to fulfill, enables students to DART more effectively and pus. 
rill create a relaxed setting for students. The nding which stems from the fact that men if from one another." 
ould help remedy the situation. According to 2000, Recommendation 25 calls for "a plan,in a centralized location." 
1tions is a good thing. Bringing the Grateful ·ealizing God's own vision of the natural and ble. However, if this doesn't help, and if <ills to interact favorably with members of the 11 will not get people laid, nor can we get 
.,,.~·~::::·i,};s;;:;,~,....:.: 
;:;::,+j;)};;.":.·::·· 

ong various dorms, but also among quads. and sports, increased interaction will yield 
:v:,.. ,, 

~as enough to promote AIDS prevention? Do vou think student ole in this issue? 
lly taboo topics. By bringing the AIDS quilt ing its awareness of many of these issues. to focus on the subject. Student 
js like AIDS to make up for the often 
'the University Board of Trustees discovered · lie students ... feel that it is important to have ' epidemic continues to worsen. We feel that 
D students about the epide.mic, but it with lives are destroyed as a result of this 
:-::,..... 

talk about sex, and once the administration maybe the University will recognize the need dent government's role In achieving this ttion with co-ed dorms, parietals, etc. until d harassment doesn'tmean playing by their ently handles this." · · ,;::it 
1as ignited a campus-wide response. Studept "Blion must be at the forefrontf of this battle :>nat and student, AIDS awareness and ludent Body." c'" 
nost important security needs of 
presentatives from the South Bend Police\PUS senators, and off-campus residents." 
a. we have decided to look into improving the ;ot C1 and C2." 
INotre Dame and performing here, will elicit ;and community that all crime In Michiana will 
! 
, :;:;;, ,~~4~., <tnH..Iincreased Interaction with the University and IJCCessful; the creation of a Securityweekly security reports to the Senate would 
~: <~f:¥=1~YftJ~~1~qi~::::;;~ii;,:,~~~~i~~~::~[:.:.. , . .. , 
King-Lefort 
As South Quad Senator and Sorin Hall President, Deitz and I complement each other's abilities and experience. I have worked extensively with the Administration to serve South Quad's inter­ests. This includes last semester's D-6 parking lottery for South Quad men. Written off as something the Administration would never change, I tackled the bureaucracy and implemented the new policy. In addition to working with the Administration, I sponsored a bill in the Senate to mandate that Senators attend each Quad's Hall Council meetings. This direct interaction with Quad dorms forces Senators and Student Government as a whole to be more responsive and accountable. In conjunction with elected office, I serve as Legal Aid Commissioner for Student Government. It is this ollice which is currently responsible for the creation of a new legal guide informing students of their legal rights. Finally, as President of the Northern Ireland Awareness Group, I bring not only Student Government experience to this ticket, but social and political expe­rience as well. 
Notoriously known for shaving his head to raise money for a trip to Appalachia, Deitz has demonstrated the steadfast endurance necessary to achieve the goals of the Student Body. As President of Sorin Hall, Deitz has been instrumental in planning various dorm activities. Within HPC, Deitz sits on the Budget Committee. As a result of his knowledge of the bud­get process, Deitz provided the critical working knowledge in the formation of our platform. In addition to Deitz's Student Government experience, he has served on the Freshman Pre­Orientation Committee. Deitz's Student Government experience coupled with involvement with Sorin demonstrates his capacity to get the job done. 
While qualifications are nec­essary for any ticket, Deitz and I refuse to rely solely upon past titles and accolades. Having extensively researched each platform for the past four months, we present the Student Body with fresh yet feasible ideas. This not a wish list, it is a list of things that can and will be done. 
Aware of the increasing demand for safety and convenience, Deitz and I met with Security. The result of our research is "The Loop": a continuous 24 hour shuttle from 02 to the Bookstore and the Rock, with designated stops along the way. The vehicle will be provided through a contract with United Limo; similar to the Saint Mary's shuttle. "The Loop" meets not only the needs of the Student Body but those of Security as well. 
With the constant clamor of criticism regarding the existing meal plan, Deitz and I take action. After researching not only our present meal system but those of other universities as well, includ­ing Duke, we met with officials in Food Services. Based on our study we offer the "Meal Account": use of your ID in the dining hall or Lafortune for each meal. For example, to buy lunch at the dining hall it costs $5.25. You would now be allocated that amount 
of money to spend at Lafortune. If you go under, it costs the same. If you go over, you simply pay the dif­ference. The Meal Account is about options and feasibility. 
We want to alleviate the confu­sion students face when trying to secure a rid home for break. The 
"Car Co-Op" provides that service: a database matching riders with drivers year-round. Students will simply log-on to the computer where and when helshe is going 
home. This database will be accessible year-round and con­stantly updated. Due to the lack of washing machines in most male dorms and the inconve­
nience of walking to St. Michael's, Deitz and I want to provide a "Laundry Drop-off: a dorm drop-off for St. Michael's laun­dry. No one wants to hike over to St. Michael's and then carry back several bundles. We base this platform on Morrissey's 
~ pre-existing agreement with St. -:;:::;--Michael's, called the "Morrissey ·-Special." "The Laundry Drop-Off will simply make that service available to the entire Student 
Body. With gender and race relations being at the forefront, we want to incorpo­rate a "Prejudice Reduction Workshop" 
into Freshman Orientation. Similar to alcohol and rape aware­ness seminars which are already included in the orientation, the "Prejudice Reduction Workshop" will be available to all students who wish to participate. The workshop will confront various issues creating conflict in an open and non-divisive manner. 
The above platforms are airtight. We have done the research and are prepared to implement them. Deitz and I work as a team. We complement each other's abilities and are ready to serve you. 


r---~--~-~~~---~-----~-~ ~ ---~ ~~ --~ --~-------­
---~ ----~--~---·-~-----------... 
ACCENT 
page 12 Thursday, February 3, 1994 
f .. 

66Tlhe eve:nt was a:n unqualified success9 popular witlh a lbroad cross section of tlhe communityo o o Tlhe large audiences and positive responses testify tlhat films outside tlhe Hollywood system 
99 
can indeed succeedo 
Mark Swofford University ofOklahoma 
'The New New Wave' reels into ND 






By MAIT CARBONE 
Accent Writer 
Mimes wearing berets. Clowns crying hysterically. Plot twists (if there is even a plot) occurring for no reason at all. 
If this is your idea of a typical French ftlm, then you are the tar­get audience of the 1994 French Film Festival on American Campuses, which will stopping at Notre Dame next week. 
Sponsored by the Centre National du Cinema (CNC). which is under the authority of the French Ministry of Culture, along with Student Union Board, the festival aims to build awareness of the unique and exceptional entertainment value of French film, according to Nicole Jouve, 
"Three Men and A Cradlel" won the Cesar (The French Oscar) for best film and was nominated for Best Foreign Film at the Academy Awards. 
~------------------------------~~~~-~----~----­
publicist for the two organiza­industry, maintains French film tive responses testify that films tions. archives and stimulates the pro-outside the Hollywood system can 
"We want to introduce students motion of French films world-indeed succeed here." to the fun and excitement of films wide. "We got outstanding atten­from another culture, the French To further this last goal, the dance," said Dudley Andrew, culture," said Jouve. CNC last year began a French University of Iowa student or­
The long-range objective of the film festival at sixteen American 1" ganizer. "We had to turn people 
festival is to build theatrical audi­college campuses nationwide. ences for French feature films, Judging from the comments of according to Jouve. those attending, over 15,000 
"Our storytelling point of view strong on the sixteen campuses, is different," said Jouve, "and we the festival was an unqualified are confident that the more success. young adult audiences enjoy our "The event was popular with a features, the more they will want broad cross-section of the com-to see." munity -professors as well as 
The CNC is a public estab­students, town residents as well lishment which supports, fi­as campus people," according to nances, regulates and analyzes Mark Swofford, student organizer French cinematography and tele­of the 1993 festival at the vision. University of Oklahoma. 
It subsidizes the French film "The large audiences and posi­
away." This was a not uncommon stu­dent reaction to the festival. 
"Our student newspaper began to advise people to arrive early," said Ralph Russo of the University of Wisconsin Madison. "The films in the series were crowd favorites." 
In a CNC survey of students attending the 1993 festival, 65% of the students said they like French films because they have a different style and cultural base, with 90% responding that they would attend the next festival. 
This year, the festival will visit 32 college and university cam­puses throughout the nation, 
. including Northwestern University, University of North Carolina -Chapel Hill and Georgia Tech. The festival kicks off at Notre Dame on Sun., Feb. 6, with a showing of "Three Men and a Cradle," the French original on which the American hit "Three Men and a Baby" was based, and which received an Oscar nomina­tion for Best Foreign Film. Other films in the festival's line­up: "Cyrano de Bergerac," the classic story of a poet with a monstrous nose, featuring French film star Gerard Depardieu in the title role, a role for which he won Best. Actor honors at the 1990 Cannes Film Festival. Depardieu, who also starred in the American film "Green Card," plays the lead role in another of the festival's films, "Too Beautiful For You," a romantic comedy which will be shown on Mon., Feb. 7. The festival wraps up with "La Femme Nikita" on Thurs., Feb. 10, a thriller which has since been remade into an American feature film retitled, "Point of No Return," starring Bridget Fonda. All films will be shown at 9 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium, except "Three Men and a Cradle," which will be shown at 3 p.m. 
~ 
I 
I 
Thursday, February 3, 1994 
Men's volleyball spikes Anderson University 
By G.R. NELSON 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's vol­leyball team whipped Anderson University 15-6, 15­5, 15-7 at the Thunderpit in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center last night. 
The Irish (5-0) got off to a slow start, falling behind a pumped-up Anderson team 6­2 in the first game. "We might have been a bit overconfident," said coach Jennifer Slosar, "But Anderson came out excit­ed to play and prepared." 
Fortunately for the Irish, Matt Strottman began to serve. During Strottman's serves, a mixture of well-placed soft serves and overpowering jump serves, the team scored 12 consecutive points and effec­tively put the game away. 
"I got my confidence back early in the string," said Strottman, "And then I went with my power game." Be­cause of orr-season knee surgery, this was the first game where Strottman could jump effectively enough to use his jump serve. 
Also back at full strength was team president Brian Ceponis, who played his usual­ly awesome game. Ceponis recorded 10 kills and 4 blocks iin only two games of action. "My knee felt stiff early but quickly started feeling good," said Ceponis. "After that I just played my game." 
Ceponis and Strottman were not alone in putting Anderson away. Outside hitters TomKo­vats and Leo Casas each recorded five kills. 
In the third game, the Irish once again used their bench, and once again there was no drop-off in productivity. Led lby the serving of freshmen Mike Irvine and Greg Hoss and net play of senior Tom lsenbarger, the squad easily disposed of Anderson. 
Now, the team's attention turns to this weekend's tour­nament at Michigan. The Irish will be without two key play­ers, Leo Casas and Tom lsenbarger, but still believe 1they can compete. "If the team plays with the same aggressiveness Strottman dis­played while serving, we should be fme," said Slosar. 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Tennessee lands nation's best class 
By RICK WARNER 
Associated Press 
Tennessee is losing star quar­terback Heath Shuler to the NFL, but gaining the top recruiting class in the country. 
Despite the loss of four blue­chip recruits in the last week, the Volunteer freshmen are rated No. 1 by SuperPrep. 
"It's not an all-time dominant class, but it's the best one out there," said Allen Wallace, publisher of the recruiting magazine based in Laguna Beach, Calif. 
Wednesday was national sign­ing day for high school players, and Tennessee led the way with a group that includes two of the country's top prep quar­terbacks -Peyton Manning of New Orleans, son of former Mississippi great Archie Man­ning, and Branndon Stewart of Stephenville, Texas. 
"They'll miss Shuler, but they've got two kids who can step in and fill the gap," Wal­lace said. 
Wallace rates Southern Cal as the No. 2 freshmen class, fol­lowed by national champion Florida State, Michigan, Miami, Alabama, Notre Dame, Georgia, Ohio State and Boston College. 
In addition to Manning and Stewart, Tennessee landed Su­perPrep's No. 1 offensive line­man (Jarvis Reado of Marreo, La.); three of the top 15 wide receivers (Maurice Staley of Charlotte, N.C., Greg Kyler of Baltimore and Marcus Nash of Edmond, Okla.); highly rated defensive players Diron Robin­son of Midwest City, Okla., and Jeff Coleman of Gaffney, S.C.; and No. 2 kicker Jeff Hall of Winchester, Tenn. 
"It's a very strong group," Wallace said. "And it would have been even stronger if they had signed four other great players, who they lost in the last 72 hours." 
Wallace said coach John Robinson was the main reason Southern Cal signed so many blue-chippers, including Cali­fornia's top-rated running back (Rodney Sermons), defensive lineman (Darrell Russell), wide receiver (Larry Parker) and de­fensive back (Grant Pearsall). 
The Trojans also signed two of the best players from Texas 
running back Delon Washington and defensive line­man Antoine Simpson -and three top junior college players. 
Robinson, who coached Southern Cal from 1976-82 before going to the NFL, re­turned to USC last year and led the Trojans to an 8-5 record. 
"They're coming to play for John Robinson," Wallace said. "He's won a national champi­onship, he's got a great reputa­tion and a magnetic personal­ity. Plus, he's got a lot of holes to fill so some kids might be able to contribute right way." 
Florida State didn't sign a big­name quarterback or running back, but the Seminoles got a great defensive group led by three players rated No. 1 in their category by SuperPrep ­linebacker Lamont Green of Miami, defensive back Robert Hammond of Opelousas, La., and all-around athlete Samari Rolle of Miami Beach. 
Miami, plagued by quarter­back problems last season when it lost three games for the first time since 1984, signed two top QBs -Scott Covington from California and Ryan Clement from Colorado. 
Wallace said Boston College's thrilling upset of Notre Dame helped the Eagles land a strong freshman class. 
"A lot of kids watched that game and they had to be im­pressed by what BC did," he said. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notte Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar CoUege Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard ' 233-2342/1 Q-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun Bands I Musicians ­Free 8-track  Need ride to St. Louis any week­end!lll Will pay lor gas!l Call Mindy 284-5417 Need one extra JPW ticket for all events DESPERATELY!I!I!III Will pay $$$$$$. Call Kelly at x3506 SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+ in salary & benefits. SkVSnowboard instructors, lift operators, wait staff,  TICKETS Help! I need an extra JPW ticket lor any event, especially Friday night! It is lor my grandmother so please help! Will pay. Call Susan 4-2548. .............. FOR SALE ...................  The NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt Feb. 25-27 Volunteer Meeting Thursday, Feb. 3 7:00p.m. La Fortune Ballroom  **START SAVING NOW FOR THE NIGHT OF YOUR LIFE** 8 Wild Walsh Women desire your invitation to the Senior Formal -II interested, leave a message @ x0856. Those who prefer 18 year olds need not apply. SUMMER JOBS • ALL  Wanted: An exceptionally gifted tutor lor advanced high school physics and calculus. Set theory and proof knowledge wouldn't hurt. Will pay $10.$15 per hour. Please call234-2465, 4 to 10 p.m. Ask lor Christine. SPRING BREAKI S. PADRE ISLAND Beachlronl -where it is all all 213 Bedroom COndo. Parties,  
recording ( 1 song/group) through Sat. 2112. Most recording done  chalet slaff + other positions (including summer). Over 15,000  2 GARTH BROOKS TICKETS FOR  EVERYONE WELCOME  LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  contests, disco on the beach. OWNER DISCOUNT. Also Marco  
whera you practice. After 2/12, rate openings. For more information call: is $10/hr. Call Tim, 273-6142. (206)634.()469 ext. V5584 Men and Women needed lor freeILOST & FOUND I haircuts. Call Cosima's 277-1875 LOST: diamond ring-tmusual set­Campus newspaper carrier/manag­ling-somewhere between the er needed immediately lor St. Unebacker and Turtle Creek on Mary's r.ampus, call City News Friday Night, 1121. Extreme senti­Service Inc., 232-3205. mental value. If you found it, please call Adriana 273-4803 Home delivery newspaper carriers REWARD OFFERED needed lor morning delivery, car required\. Call City News Service Inc., 232-3205. lost: small silver ring with sunken black patterns-sized lor a male. please call x0920 if found. SENIOR needs extra GRADUA­TION tickets. Will pay CASH. Call Dave @ 273-3008 Helpl II you found my dark navy/ black J.Craw coat(size s) w/ orange lining after the party at 628 [joRRENT Grace Fri. please call Lesley 4867 I'M FREEZING and my life was in NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM $225.  THE SUNDAY, FEB. 13 SHOW. CALL 4-1339 BETWEEN 7-9 PM. LEAVE A MESSAGE WITH AN OFFER...................................... KEY WEST-KEY WEST Spring Braak Airline Ticket FOR SALE. From South Bend to Key West, leaving Thursday, March 3 and returning on Friday, March 11. This ticket was purchased during an airfara war and I'm selling it for what I paid lor it, which is cheaper than anything you can find available nowl!!l Call Staph at 273-6548. GARTH BROOKS TICKET Sec. 12 Row 4 Seat 5 Call with your offer X4833  SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! Tickets ara siHI available for the ski trip to Bittersweet on Saturday, Feb.5. Transportation will be pro­vided by bus. Uti tickets are $17 at the LaFortune Information desk. SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! Still seats left on best CANCUN Spr. Brkl Will pair up grps. Call232­71091 SPRING BREAKI Student Holidays, the nation's leader in Spring Break vacations offering the ultimate trip to CANCUN, MEXICOI The #1 Student Spring Braak Destination from $399 Package includes hotel, flight and partlesl Organize a small group and travel for FREEl CALL RICHI 1-800-360-TRIP  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800­786-8373 Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruisel 6 Days $2791 Trip Includes Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Hunyl This will sell outl 1-800-678-6386 Spring Breakl Cancun &Jamaica! Fly out of Chicago and spend 8 days on the beachl We have the bast trips &pricesllncludes air & hotel & parties from $3991 1-800­678-6386 Spring Braakl Panama Cilyl 8 days oceanview room with kilchen.$1191 Walk to best barsllncludes free dis­count card -save $50 on cover charges! 1~7SHS386  Island, Florida near Keys 1BR. Boats.~.~.HAPPY HOUR, $650 Week· OWNER DIS­COUNT 813-642-5483 O.K. So you're bright and disci­plined enough to get into NO and thrive here. Are you creative and adventurous as well? Could you handle a major in Greek and/or Latin? (inquiries, 631-7195) What are you doing for Spring Break???? Try out the .... APPALLACHIA SEMINAR! Slots are still available -Inquiry at the Canter lor Social Concerns. ..............................___... So did you get the gist of the puz­zle/ Senior Bar Ads??  
the pockell no ?'s askedl  MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO.  FOR SALE-2 basketball tickets for  4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in  If you want GREAT specials figure  
AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306  Sat's game vs UCLA Call Katy  Washington, D.C. area wish to  them out and uncover the best kept  
x3850  TOP TEN BELATED AND TOTAL·  adopt infant brother or sister. Close  secretin townlllll  
L Y INDECIPHERABLE QUOTES  extended family in area. Let's help  
FOUND: Beagle, 151bs, by Turtle Creek Apts, Call Kevin 273-6163  HOME BASED B &B ALLIANCE HOMES available lor Feb. 18 & 19,  PERSONAL  FROM THE GREAT GRACE 40 FESTIVAL OF DRUNKEN LOVE: 1/29194  each other. Medllegal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 1-80Q-864-8385.  Dealsl Dealsl Dealsl Dealsl.........................................  
LOST: gold cross & chain btwn Rolfs and NOH on 1/30. Call Emily 4570  Parents weekend. Call271-0989. Excellant accomadations.  ADOPTION: Loving, financially secura couple longs lor a newborn  10. Hi, I'm (YOUR NAME HERE). Wanna hook up? 9. Dave, put the lire hose down.  SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LON­DON & ROME IN 21ST YEAR.  ....................................... COllege of Business  
Lost: Red women's wallet at Campus View on Fri. 1/28. Keep  Junior Parents Weekend -1 room, 2 nights Double Best Inns $160 314-227'-6156  to join our family. Please call Nancy and Jerry 1-800-272-5810.  8. II was unbelievable. Still pictures couldn't possibly do it justice.  TRAVELIN IREL,SCOT,ENG,FR,GER,SWITZ, &ITALY. COURSES IN PHOTO,  Adminislralion MUGS Only $1011  
the money, bull need the rest of it.  7. Hey, whoah...That'll be plenty  BIO,BUS, ECON,HIST,SOC,ITAL- On sale in the lobby of  
If found. please call Katie at x2550. Lost: a blue/green COlumbia jacket  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES SECURITY SYSTEM ALL APPLIANCES  Helpl hitchhiking is dangerous and Mud needs a ride to Dayton lor  for me there, Randy. 6. Lick it, slam it, suck it, slam it, slam it, suck it again, slam it,  IAN,& LIT. MEETING 6:30PM FEB. 8 CARROLL HALL SMC. FOR INFO-PROF. BLACK 284-4460  Hayes-Healy: Feb. 3through Feb. 11 11 :OOam-1 pm  
at Turtle Creek party last Friday­you've got my I.D., the LEAST you could do is give the rest back -Will x1062  112 MILE FROM CAMPUS 2322595 FREE MAID SERVICE '94·95  JPW (2-18,19,20) call her at x2574 orx2575. SUPPORT GROUP FOR RAPE  wince, scream. 5. You know, in California, we call that dry l****ing. 4. Is his zipper up or down??  *'*******BEAT THE RUSH******** VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly  sponsored by: NO Marketing Club ····························-····-··  
Lost last Friday (1128) in the Stepan parking lot: Navy blue with purple Nike stripe pair of hiking boots. II found please call4-3718. Thanks I  Big 6 bedrm.,great area, B.B. & sand V-ball courts. 234-3831 or 273.()462 I NEED ROOMMATES!  SURVIVORS Open to Notre Dame & St Mary's Students; HELD ON CAMPUS; FREE; CONFIDENTIAL Sponsored by Sex Offense Services 234-()()61 ext. 1308  3.1'M KRAKATOAIIIIIIII 2. (Miscellaneous slurping sounds) 1. How did I get on the couch... and why am I wearing no pants? AND THE GRANDDADDY OF  approaching, and if you want to write a classified to that special someone, you can type your ad now. Your message will appear in the special Valentine's Observer on Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd  hot lava this weekend??? to girl in Knott 237:  
WANTED ....SPRING BREAK '94*... Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica,  Summer + 94-95 year 150/mo lum+ulil pd-MUST SEEI Hickory Village-5 min to campus 273-8369  Bookstore Basketball Commissioner applications in St.Govt.-LaFortune. Due Feb 8. Frosh!Soph encouraged to apply.  THEM ALL: "Anyone lor a menage-a-trois?" PEACE to mark matt greg lim rob dave brian paul randy jeff mike greg  floor of Lafortune..................................... 2 girls going to Cancun thru College Trs want to comb. w/ other grp.  I not steal phonel I lind outside window with many beer cans. I angry cuz you not recycle HULK SMASH PHONE!!I  - 
Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest  john brian ramon pete dave  Help! x284-5525  Hulk keep bell -like pretty ringing  
Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREEl TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283.  TurtleCrk 2BR Twnhse avail. lor 94-95 Cristenx1912  am driving to Miami Oh and would like a rider. call todd # 1251  FROM YOUR DISTINGUISHED SECTION LEADER....WE'LL DO IT AGAIN SOON.  Bookstore Basketball XXIII-uh huh, can you handle it?  noise but I exchange lor new pair purple shorts if you want. please contact David Banner  




r 
Men 
continued from page 20 

"Ryan Turner is one of the most refined high school for­wards in the country," Berticelli said. "We are really excited about his potential to be a ma­jor goal scorer." 
Savarino scored 159 goals to break the Illinois high school recoll'd. 
"Bill Savarino is an explosive player who is extremely dan­gerous with the ball at his feet," Bertilcelli said. 
Notre Dame gets some defen­sive help from Zimmer, a two­time all-Missouri sweeper. 
"Matt is a very talented player who will probably play sweeper back on the collegiate level," Berticelli said. "A composed 
Volleyball 
continued from page 20 

5-10 middle blocker Lee was also named to the Volleyball Monthly All-American team and was a USA Today!Mizuno second team selection. She teamed with Harris on the USA Volleyball junior elite team that toured Canada and in the Mizuno classic. 
"(Jamie) has tremendous leaping ability and exceptional speed, with her only weakness being a lack of experience against high level competition," commented Brown. "As she gets that experience, she has the potential to become both an All-American and an Olympian." 
May, a 5-9 setter, rounds out the stellar Irish class. Having been named AA Player of the Year in California for leading her team to the state champi­onship game, she will join cur-
player under pressure, he 

Flower Delivery 7 Days 
makes excellent choices with the ball." 
Gallo, a defensive midfielder from Modesto, Calif., played 

f{.!;)' 0 ~~th 
two years for the Ajax United Soccer Club that went 62-0-2 

Super Saver Prices on Roses 
during that stretch and won the 

Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, 
Northern California state cup. 

Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
"Joe brings experience and intensity to the Notre Dame 
Clocktower Square 
(219)277.. 1291
midfield," Berticelli said. 

51408 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 Phone Answered 24 hrs. 
Thursday, February 3, 1994 
rent Notre Dame players Christy Peters and Brett Hensel as Torrey Pines High alumni on the court. 
"I think the most important physical characteristic needed to be a great setter is speed, and Carey has remarkable speed," explained Brown. "I love to have players that expect to win, and Carey is that type of player." 
The Irish recruits will be looked on to make an immedi­ate contribution, as Notre Dame graduates three seniors who were a key part of the playoff run in setter Janelle Karlan and middle blockers Molly Stark and Julie Harris. Each of these players garnered post-season awards in recogni­tion of their accomplishments. 
"Each year that I have been at Notre Dame the incoming re­cruiting class has challenged our returning players, and I think this class will be more competitive than ever," stated Brown, who is in her third year 
-
Thursday, February 3, 1994 page 15 
Women 
continued from page 20 
in the nation who's a senior this year, I didn't see her," Petrucelli said. 
Sobrero, who also seriously consid­ered Virginia and contemplated a stay at Stanford, said that it was a difficult deci­sion but that she had wanted to come to Notre Dame for a long time. 
"I thought it was a beautiful campus and a great school," she said. "It was an up-and-coming team and that was what I was looking for." 
Holly Manthie, a 5'8" midfielder at Burnsville High School in Burnsville, Minnesota, has been an All-State mid­fielder for the past three years. She has led her high school team to two state titles. A member of the under-20 team, Manthie's club team won the under-16 national championships. She is also the Minnesota state champ in the 300 meter hurdles and a member of her high school's state champion basketball team. 
"She's obviously got great athletic ability," Petrucelli said. "She's got the ability to play a number of different positions and I see her making an impact right away." 
Manthie chose Notre Dame over Maryland and Wisconsin-Madison because it was a better school and had a better soccer program. 
"I'm kind of nervous," she said, "but I'm really excited to play for a great team and to go to a great school." 
Julie Maund is the third Irish recruit to have played for the under-20 squad. The 5'6" midfielder from LaJolla High School in LaJolla, California, was named both Western League and CIF Player of the Year in 1992 and 1993. The CIF is Southern California's high school athlet­ics association 
Maund was named an USYSA All­American in 1992 and has been named a 1994 Parade All-America. She was also captain of the West Regional team. 
"Julie is a very talented soccer play­er," Petrucelli said. "Certainly, she's got a very bright future at Notre Dame and I think she'll be a very effective player at the college level." 
Maund, who's family has always been "fanatical" about Notre Dame, also con­sidered Virginia and Cal-Berkeley. 
"When I got to see the school an the recruiting trip I realized that that's the school I want to be at," she said. "I think that the soccer team is on the way to the national title," she added. 'Tm looking forward to contributing to that.' 
Cammie Page, a 5'11" defender from Minnehaha Academy and a resident of Minneapolis, rounds out the fab four for the Irish. 
Page, the daughter of former Notre Dame football great and current Minnesota Supreme Court Justice Alan Page, was All-State for three years in high school. She was All-Conference in track and basketball and she was on the Minnesota State Select Soccer Team. 
"She's big, strong, and fast," said Petrucelli. "She has the potential to be an outstanding player." 
The ObserverfT.J. Harris Coach Petrucelli guided sensational freshman Cindy Daws to National Freshman of the Year honors. The Irish are hoping the new recruits can achieve similar success. 
Page, who also considered Minnesota, start right now." Clemson, and the University of With only two starters graduating, the Washington, was convinced to attend Irish are sitting pretty for another run at Notre Dame after her recruiting visit. "It the national championship. was like one big family," she said. "I think this is going to make us a very 
"I think any one of these kids are talented, deep team with a number of capable of starting for our team," different players who can. be effective in Petrucelli said. "I'd say there are proba-a variety of positions for us," Petrucelli bly 13 or 14 players on our team who said. "We add size, we add speed, and have that talent. It's hard to say who'll we add soccer ability." 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Learning a new image of God 
I suppose school was never very hard for me because I enjoy thinking about all kinds of different topics. I usually got good enough grades to satisfy myself and my parents, even though it took me several years of experience before I finally found a college major that I could really embrace. By the end of it all, I even got the chance to write a few long term papers about things that concerned me deeply. 
There was a certain philosophy class called "models of consciousness." It was very heavy. Nobody quite seemed to know what we were talking about half the time. The professor taught us yoga breathing in rhythm to the clanging of the radiator. Sleepy longhairs powered down very-caffeinated cups of coffee, while the chalkboards filled with outlines of St. Bonaventure's Mind's Road to God one day and Native American poetry the next. The writing of our final required paper was kind of a free for all. 
The main focus of my life in those days was volunteer work for the mentally retarded at Logan Center. Year after year my friends and I recruited and organized events so that more and more Notre Dame and St. Mary's students could get involved in the lives of the mentally handicapped of St. Joe County. Saturday morning was for general recreation; weekday evenings meant bowling. There were swimming lessons and trips to the lee Capades, home economics and plenty of dances. Every time we met a new girl at the bars we would convince her that she just had to join us for some activity we were doing with the clients of Logan Center. It was a great way to meet women. 
The hard part about recruiting a new volunteer was the fear they would normally feel at the beginning. Can I handle this? What will I say to these people? Willi become depressed when I see their disability up close? What do I really have to offer these people anyway? 
our basic recruiting trick was simply to get our newest potential partner to show up on a Saturday morning. After that, the same miracle always took place. A shy sophomore would peer around the comer of the Logan cafeteria doorway. Several ever-vigilant clients would spy her and dash to her side, swallowing her up in hugs and welcome, showing her to a seat, and pummeling her with questions about everything under the sun. By the end of the morning, we would have captured another happy recruit. 
Maybe that woman showed up all worried about her clothes or her messy hair. Maybe her boyfriend had recently made her feel like dirt. Maybe she was battling terrible feelings of inadequacy because of her schoolwork, or her complexion, or her weight. Maybe she was happy, maybe she was sad. Maybe she was popular, maybe she spent her weekend nights alone. In our crowd it didn't make a bit of difference. The always-repeated miracle always worked its healing magic. She was totally accepted. 
When I wrote my paper for "modds of consciousness," I wrote about this miracle, about how God continued to take flesh and came to earth each Saturday to heal God's people and set them free in our time. I wrote about the mentally handicapped as an image of God. I wrote about how their instant acceptance, their unrestricted love, their open embrace of the stranger was a clear and powerful sacrament of the liberating presence of God. 
Most of us judge each other harshly. We have trained our minds to be critical. Our hearts have learned the hard way to be protected and not just a little bit tough. It makes sense to be careful in this world. Someone might take advantage of us. It makes sense to surround ourselves with the beautiful and the talented and the cool. It reflects so well back upon us. 
The clients at Logan Center didn't know these lessons. They knew need and love and openness and truth. They were healers and givers of joy. They were simple people, without guile, and it made them holy -it made them instruments of God. 
Generations of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students have been blessed by the love of such folks. Day after day students go into town to tutor and befriend, to visit the aged and serve the disadvantaged. They seek to give, and of course they receive, abundantly. 
The mentally handicapped taught me so much about God -and they got me an "A" on my paper. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. February 5  5:00p.m.  Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C.  
Sun. February 6  10:00 a.m.  Rev. William Simmons, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C.  

SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING Job 7: 1..4, 6..7 2ND READING 1Corinthians 9: 16.-19, 22..23 GosPEL Mark 1: 29..39 
page 16 The Observer • RECRUITING Thursday, February 3, 1994 

Irish raid talent-rich states, Midwest is missing 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
:~;;;:~~~':,~;~~ ~~~~~ AGeographic Look at Notre 
Bendforthenextfewweeks. 
Dame's FootbaII s·Ign e es
The Irish coach has logged
enough frequent flyer miles in the last few months to make 
the friendly skies far from inviting. 
Holtz, recruiting coordinator Tony Yelovich, and the rest of the coaching staff have left no stone unturned in their search for top athletes. The twenty players which comprise the 1994 recruiting class exempli­fy the broad recruiting base the Irish have established. 
Two signees from California, three from Texas, and a pair from Georgia are examples of Notre Dame's ritual of raiding the talent rich states. Tight end Luke Petitgout from 

Deleware and offensive line­man Paul Mickelbart from 'tml•~j~.:t<ioi i!)!i~;iii :~1[,ig!i.t1;tU~Iii.~@Oii§i' .. l '.·.M ...b.a·······.i't .• ......ij.l...•..•.:m ····'fi'·······aossum·A.ueti'
:ifi\.• ..•.••. i.c..•.•..•.. ki....•. t!.·.··.J .. ........l.~.··•.a
\IJI .... .. •·1!8/..................... ·! ....·.''·''·····'·"' Washington were fmds for the Berkeley, MO Bay City, TX Bothell, WA Dallas, TX 
coaching staff outside of the ;:m• ~ifl~l~l~iji't!!:> ••··• :; rl);:!:~d~i;1JY:.: · {,•....•...• •(J.Qrn$ti!n;·Q~$··•: 0 ..SI:>iGkftlmiihUdb\ 
recruiting hotbeds. 

"Notre Dame will always re-Bradley, IL Lincoln, NE Tenafly, NJ Jacksonville, FL cruit nationally," said Holtz. ;;::m i3iot1iiff~t~ilri~i!i \·ii:lill!Btiii~f:lti'~§i[i;!Mal~lm •. iOt:Pet~r.D~m.lati.•..i!i.• ··'lf···•'btok~$ Cl~ffieht'
,;11,9;! .. '\;;J .....•.·.·.· ...... i.............H ..! 

Also internationally, as Doraville, GA Washington, DC Locust, NJ ·.· Washington, D(; Toronto native Bill Mitoulas i:I'J:!IJ~ot;'.!l)J@i)iii!ii;!i!l;.\!.!i!ilii:;;i:D:!i!Kf@ffljr;!'0jf.f.![;J i!j.i!.li:J'(JiW:(J.p~fltgg~t;:I.,;!Jki· ·••••• .. :·.~····'.\f\/rigljf;{..jrf'Y'H!·'·•
signed on to play linebacker L
for the Irish. akeview Terr., CA Weatherford, TX Georgetown, DE West Monroe, LA But the national scene is not iii». ~yjQ'gfonlJviJY:;!i!'!!m:MiJllaugtliini;;~PHn : (§).Reddef•.Qofiy ;, \ :•.!if··· the concern for Notre Dame. Decatur, GA Valencia, CA Forestville, MD Only two players from the mid­west signed, and the Irish The Observer/Christopher Mullins came up empty in their usual 
and receiver Ty Goode of Lin­In addition, three graduat­backs Jarvis Edison and Allen feeding states of Michigan, coln, Nebraska. ing starters from the defense, Rossum signed with the Irish 
Iowa, and Ohio. 

In comparison, last season Jim Flanigan, Bryant Young shortly after the Cotton Bowl. 
"Our recruiting base has to 
the Irish signed ten players and Pete Bereich, all hale from Linebacker Jeff Kramer made be made in the midwest," said from the midwest, and the only the midwest. an early commitment to Holtz 
Holtz. "We definitely need to freshman to see substantial "We are going to have to and the Irish. improve in that area. We have playing time on offense were take a hard look at our recruit­"Playing in the Cotton Bowl not established this base." Marc Edwards (Ohio), Robert ing this year," added Holtz. certainly helps with the The only midwest signees Farmer (Illinois) and Randy Notre Dame did continue its recruiting in Texas," said were Kurt Belisle from Illinois Kinder (Michigan). success in Texas. Defensive Holtz. 


is now accepting applications for the 
1994-95 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to jake Peters by Thursday, Feb. 10 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-5323. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, over­sees the Etc. page and is responsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MA.RY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXPress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXPress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertis­ers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with Ad Design manager and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self-motivation. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
Thursday, February 3, 1994 -; The Observer • RECRUITING 
Ornstein will do double duty 
By JASON KELLY when I was there I knew it was But nobody knows the trouble Associate Sports Editor the place I wanted to be. he's seen. (Coach Lou Holtz) made it clear "The weather and the dis­
It is interesting-if insignifi­right away that it wouldn't be a tance are a problem for us," cant-that a Jewish football problem." Holtz said. player would choose a Catholic And if he ever feels a bit South Bend winters aren't university. alienated? getting any warmer and play­
It is also interesting-and sig­"All he has to do is walk out­ers from more tropical climates nificant-that quarterback Gus side and look on top of the never seem to pack enough 
Ornstein (or any quarterback) Golden Dome to see a woman mittens for recruiting visits. 
would choose Notre Dame who was 100 percent Jewish," The NCAA also shortened the 
when Ron Powlus seems to Holtz said. time period that coaches can 
have such a tight grip on the CINDY DAWS meet with prospects, making it 
starting position. OR RAGEN COYNE? more difficult for the Irish to 
But Ornstein had things other Notre Dame's search for a recruit coast-to-coast. 
than religion and football on placekicker continues. Will it "You don't want to spend the 
his mind when he signed his expand to the women's soccer time on airplanes, you want to The Irish were unable to find big name skill players like Randy Kinder 
national letter of intent to team? spend it in the high schools," (above) and Ron Powlus, who entered the college level with polished 
Holtz said. skills.
attend Notre Dame. "We are looking at some soc­
"I love the school," he said in cer players," Holtz said. ''I've GET A LIFE "We got some players who 
a telephone interview. "I got already talked to Chris Recruiting is arguably the will fit into the scheme we 
along with everyone I met and (Petrucelli) about it." most important aspect of a col­Football run," said Holtz. 
they were very supportive." Petrucelli is the women's soc­lege coach's job. On offense, Holtz raved about 
continued from page 20 
Few things mean more to a the skills of the three offensiveThe Tenafly, N.J. native will cer coach, but Holtz was refer­lineman signed and also was
also play baseball. A switch­ring to men's coach Mike successful team than the play­publicity from the book Under positive about the skills of thehitting first baseman, Ornstein Berticelli. ers who wear the school colors. the Tarnished Dome took its freshmen wide receivers. 
hit .520 in his junior season. Three years ago, men's soccer It's understandable why toll and the loss •of offensive coordinator Skip Holtz and
He discussed the difficulty of player Kevin Pendergast won coaches forsake their family "Ty Goode and Leon Blunt
defensive coordinator Rick
playing both sports with Irish an open tryout to earn a spot and friends for weeks at a time 
are excellent athletes, and
Minter, left some recruits ques­to plead their case to various
quarterback/shortstop Paul on the football team. Malcolm Johnson does not pos­
tioning the stability of the Irish
Failla, who has done double Holtz may be in a similar situ­fleet-footed running backs and sess great speed but uses his
coaching staff. 
duty for three years. ation if Kevin Laird doesn't big-necked linemen. size well." 
The Irish lost out on one of
"It will be tough, but it's what sign with Notre Dame. He is What's not so understandable Holtz felt the Irish were
the nation's top defensive line­
I want to do and the coaches expected to visit this weekend. is why anybody else cares. Ev­man, Travis Stroud, when the handicapped this year by new 
support that," Ornstein said. "I If Laird decides not to come to ery fan seems to have a con­Georgia native decided to stay NCAA rules limiting the amount 
talked with Failla when I visit­Notre Dame, Holtz will have to cern that is too vital not to be in his home state and play for of time a coach can spend re­
ed and it seems like Notre search for another placekicker, shared, or a question that can't the Bulldogs. cruiting. 
"The NCAA needs to makeDame is the easiest place (to most likely from among the wait until the first week of "He was the only defensive some rule changes or they are
play two sports) because the Irish soccer players. February. lineman we recruited," said 
going to hinder the time to
coaches are so supportive." He'll probably flip a Coyne. To handle its flood of calls on Holtz. "But I had been expect­evaluate an athlete on charac­the subject, the South Bend ing him to sign with Georgia for That support, and the general GREENHOUSE EFFECT ter and education." 
some time."
atmosphere of the school that You won't find many opposing Tribune began a recruiting bot­New NCAA rules have cut
Holtz seems to think the Irish 
line, which received 16,947
helped Ornstein overcome any coaches crying for Lou Holtz's down on the number of days
filled their holes on defense
religious apprehension he may recruiting difficulties. calls in January alone. coaches can visit an athlete,
particularly at linebacker.
have had about Notre Dame. Selling Notre Dame to a foot­Some people have too much severely hindering schools like
Minter's replacement, Bob 
"(Religion) was an issue until I ball prospect isn't exactly like time on their hands. Put the Davies, uses an aggressive de­Notre Dame which rely on a visited," Ornstein said. "But selling a '78 Honda Civic. phone down and read a book. fense, emphasizing speed. national recruiting base. 
TTE 

T 0 
N H 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance· 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


-
Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 

r 
"This group can run and they have character and dignity. They want to be at Notre Dame and they like the game of football."
Meet the Irish. • • 
-Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz 
page 18 The Observer • RECRUITING Thursday, February 3, 1994 
Ken Barry 

Prep Football Report All-American by Tom Lemming as one of 28 running backs . .. rated among top 20 nationally in athlete category as SuperPrep All-American ... rushed for 1.684 yards and 16 TDs as senior at -riory High School in St. Louis, Mo .... had 8.6 average per carry on 196 attempts in '93 . . . rushed for more than 1 , 1 00 yards as junior ... caught five passes for 60 yards in '93 . . . played strong safety on defense and also returned kickoffs ... averaged 14 points and 14 rebounds per game as junior in basketball . . . has run 
11.1 in 100 meters. 
Kurt Belisle 

Prep Football Report All-American by Tom Lemming as one of 29 linebackers ... a USA Today honorable mention All­America pick . . . listed as one of top 25 linebackers nationally as SuperPrep All­American ... listed filth among defensive ends nationally by Max Emfinger ... rated one of Athlon Elite !=illy (and one of top five linebackers nationally) prior to '93 season .. 
listed as one of top 100 players in country and one of top 12 linebackers by Chicago Sun-Times . . . rated one of top 1 00 prep players (and one of 1 0 linebackers) in Lee Corso's College Football before senior sea­son ... listed second among linebackers in Big Ten region by BlueChip Illustrated . .. a first-team linebacker on Chicago Sun-Times Illinois Large School (Class 4A, SA, 6A) all­state team . . . averaged 15 tackles per game as senior at Bishop McNamara High School in Kankakee, Ill., plus six sacks and 18 tackles for losses ... career totals include more than 300 tackles, 10 sacks, five interceptions ... voted top defensive player in '93 in Chicago Catholic League. 
Corey Bennett 

Prep Football Report All-American by Tom Lemming as one of 27 defensive backs nationally ... a USA Today honor­able mention Ail-America pick ... rated one of top 100 players nationally on preseason basis (and one of top 10 defensive backs) by Lee Corso's College Football ... listed seventh among linebackers in Southeast region by BlueChip Illustrated ... rated one of top 50 players in Georgia (and one of top nine linebackers) by Atlanta Constitution ... made 191 tackles in '93, 125 solo efforts and six sacks, four fumble recoveries at Cross Keys High School in Atlanta, Ga .... bench-pressed 425 in high school ... three­year starter at middle linebacker. 
Leon Blunt 

Prep Football Report All-American by Tom Lemming as one of 27 defensive backs nationally ... a USA Today honor­able mention All-America selection ... rated third nationally in athlete category as SuperPrep All-American ... Los Angeles Times all-City Section pick ... named SuperPrep Far West Offensive player of the year ... rated number one in athlete cate­gory in Western region by BlueChip Illustrated ... played quarterback in '93, scoring 22 TDs, throwing for 715 yards and rushing for 803 ... three-year starter at quarterback ... finished with more than 4,000 career total offense yards, beating out Charles White in .that category and fin­ishing second only to Anthony Davis at his high school ... played for his cousin Sean Blunt at San Fernando High School in San Fernando, Calif.. 
Ivory Covington 
First-team Georgia all-state selection ... made 110 tackles, 70 solos in '93 ... made eight interceptions, returning four for TDs .. . helped Dunwoody High School in Dunwoody, Ga., to Georgia Class AAAA state title with 15-0 record ... played at free safety as senior ... high school teammate of Travis Stroud ... originally from California ... a sprinter in track. 
Jarvis Edison 
Parade prep All-American as one of six defensive backs on 57-man squad ... Prep Football Report All-American by Tom Lemming as one of top 27 defensive backs nationally ... a second-team USA Today AII-Am•erican ... rated filth nationally among defensive backs as SuperPrep All­American ... listed ninth among defensive backs nationally by 8/u'eChip Illustrated ... listed among top 100 players nationally and one of top 15 defensive backs by Chicago Sun-Times .... rated one of top 50 high school players (and one of top four defen­sive backs) prior to senior campaign by Street & Smith's . .. made 75 solo tackles and 30 assists as senior free safety, to go with five interceptions (three in state play­offs) and 23-yard average on kickoff returns at Bay City High School in Bay City, Texas. .. career totals include 185 solo tackles, 90 assists, 11 interceptions ... first-team Texas all-state pick ... brother Cyrus Edison plays defensive back at Baylor and uncle James Redus played defensive back at Texas A&M. 
TyGoode 
Parade prep All-American as one of eight receivers on 57-man squad ... Prep Football Report All-American by Tom Lemming as one of 20 wide receivers ... rated one of top 1 0 high school players prior to senior campaign (and one of top 10 defensive backs) by Lee Corso's College Football ... named Gatorade Circle of Champions high school player of the year in Nebraska for '93 ... rated USA Today play­er of the year in Nebraska ... rated sixth nationally in athlete categ01y as SuperPrep Ail-American ... rated second among ath­letes nationally by BlueChip Illustrated, which also named him offensive MVP in Big Eight region ... set Nebraska Class A record in '93 by scoring 30 TDs at Southeast High School in Lincoln, Neb .... rushed for school-record 1 ,494 yards and 
7.3 average per carry ... had 17 catches for 378 yards and three TDs ... averaged 10.1 yards on punt returns and 36.6 on kickoffre­turns ... finished with 2,602 total yards ... intercepted four passes on defense to go with 59 tackles ... three-year starter as both tailback and defensive back ... led team to 10-2 mark as senior and Nebraska state runnerup spot ... an ail-city basket­ball player, averaging 18 points and six rebounds as junior ... has run 10.8 10 meters in track. 


-
\)~ 
YOU! BE ~LUB~THERE 
~0~ 
TONIGHT
.­

Malcolm Johnson 

Prep Football Report All-American by Tom Lemming as one of 20 wide receivers nationally ... rated 17th best wide receiver nationally as SuperPrep AIIAmerican . . . named SuperPrep Mid-Atlantic Defensive player of the year ... rated seventh among wide receivers in Atlantic Coast region by BlueChip Illustrated ... Washington Post ail metro pick as senior ... caught 38 passes for 735 yards and six TDs as senior in '93 at Gonzaga Prep in Washington, D.C.... made seven receptions vs. DeMatha ... made 29 tackles and intercepted four passes as cor­nerback. 
Jeff Kramer 

Prep Football Report All-American by Tom Lemming as one of 29 linebackers nationally and best in Texas ... a USA Today honorable mention Ail-America pick . . . Dallas Morning News first-team presea­son ail-area pick . . . rated among top 25 linebackers nationally as SuperPrep All­American ... listed number seven among linebackers nationally by BlueChip Illustrated ... listed among top 1 0 players nationally and one of top 12 linebackers by Chicago Sun-Times ... first-team Texas ail-state selection ... two-time district MVP ... threeyear starter and captain of team as senior at Weatherford High School in Weatherford, Texas ... had 128 tackles (87 solo) as senior, with three fumble recover­ies, five caused fumbles, three intercep­tions, six sacks and 29 tackles for losses .. . career totals include 1 84 solo tackles, 139 assists, eight interceptions, 13 sacks, 49 tackles for losses and 17 caused fumbles .. . has run 10.9 in 100 meters and 50.3 in 400 meters. 
John McLaughlin 

Caught 25 passes for 494 yards and four TDs in '93 at Hart High School in Newhall, Calif .... made 62 tackles, despite missing four games after separating both shoulders ... rated among top 20 nationally in athlete category as SuperPrep Ail-American . . . listed among top 10 defensive ends nation­ally by Max Emfinger ... rated second among linebackers in Western region by BlueChip Illustrated ... named to Long Beach Press-Telegram Best in the West team ... averaged 35 yards on kickoff returns including 95-yarder for TD ... has run a 10.9 10 meters. 
Paul Mickelbart 

A USA Today honorable mention All­America pick ... rated seventh-best prospect in Northwest by SuperPrep ... rated fourth nationally among offensive guards by Max Emfinger . . . rated among top eight offensive linemen in Western region by BlueChip Illustrated ... played both offensive and defensive tackle at Cascade High School in Everett, Wash .... 
earned Washington all-state honors as senior. 
Bill Mltoulas 

Played defensive end at Northern Secondary School in Toronto, Ontario, Canada ... no slats were kept for his games but says he made about 20 tackles per contest ... had a cousin shoot footage on home video camera and sent tapes to various schools. 
Gus Ornstein 

Prep Football Report All-American by Tom Lemming as one of 18 quarterbacks nationally ... named All-East Offensive player of the year by Prep Football Report . .. listed as one of top 100 players nationally and one of top 12 quarterbacks by Chicago SunTimes . .. completed 83 of 161 passes in '93 for 1,101 yards and 10 TDs at the Fieldston School in the Bronx, N.Y .... New York all-state pick as quarterback ... career totals include 285 of 490 passing for 4,130 yards and 25 TDs ... also played basket­ball and baseball as switch-hilling first baseman, hitting .520 as junior. 
Damian Peter 

Prep Football Report All-American by Tom Lemming as one of 22 offensive line­men ... rated filth among all-East prospects by Prep Football Report ... rated fifth-best offensive lineman nationally as SuperPrep Ail-American ... rated among top 10 offensive tackles nationally by Max Emfinger ... rated eighth among offensive linemen in Eastern region by BlueChip Illustrated ... rated one of top 100 players nationally and one of top 11 offensive line­men by Chicago Sun-Times ... had 61 tackles and six sacks as defensive lineman at South High School in Middleton, N.J .... consensus ali-state pick as offensive line­man ... brothers Jason (redshirt freshman defensive lineman) and Christian (sopho­more nose tackle) play football at Nebraska. 
Luke Petitgout 

Prep Football Report All-American by Tom Lemming as one of 23 defensive line­men in nation ... a USA Today honorable mention All-America pick ... caught 22 passes in '93, five for TDs at Sussex Central High School in Georgetown, Del.... had 90 tackles and 15 sacks as defensive end ... also played basketball and track. 
Corey Redder 

Two-time all-county selection at Largo High School in Upper Marlboro, Md .... played linebacker and tight end as three­year starter ... captain of team as senior in '93 ... ran track both indoors and outdoors. 
Allen Rossum Prep Football Report All-American by Tom Lemming as one of top 27 defensive 
backs nationally ... rated eighth nationally in athlete category as SuperPrep AIIAmerican ... ranked 1Oth among defen­sive backs nationally by BlueChip Illustrated ... played quarterback as junior and senior, throwing for 635 yards and six TDs in '93 and 872 in '92 ... ran for 791 yards and seven TDs as senior ... had 79 tackles and five interceptions at cornerback in '93 at Skyline High School in Dallas, Texas ... averaged 15 yards per punt return as senior and had 98-yard kickoff return ... had the fastest100-meter time in Texas in spring of '93 ... has run 10.4 electronically timed and 10.02 wind-aided in the 100 meters, plus 21.1 in the 200 meters. 
Jon Splckelmier 

Prep Football Report All-American by Tom Lemming as one of 22 offensive line­men nationally ... rated one of top three centers nationally by Prep Football Report . .. -'JSA Today honorable mention All­America pick ... rated among top 30 offen­sive linemen nationally as SuperPrep Ali­American ... listed number six among offensive linemen nationally by 8/ueChip Illustrated ... rated second among centers nationally by Max Emfinger ... named Jacksonville player of the year for '93 . . . earned Florida first-team all-state honors at the Bolles School in Jacksonville, Fla.... led team to 15-0 record in '93 and Florida 3A state title. 
Clement Stokes 

Prep Football Report All-American by Tom Lemming as one of top 27 defensive backs nationally... rated Ali-Atlantic Coast Defensive player of the year by Prep Football Report ... named Gatorade Circle of Champions high school player of the year in District of Columbia ... a USA Today honorable mention Ali-America pick ... rated eighth among all running backs nationally as SuperPrep All-American . . . rated tops among MidAtlantic prospects by SuperPrep ... two-time Washington Post all-metro selection ... rushed 144 times for 1,401 yards and 16 TDs in '93 in only seven games at Gonzaga Prep in Washington, 
D.C.... had single-game highs of 320 and 287 rushing yards ... played free safety on defense, making 49 tackles and intercepting three passes ... brother of Irish freshman Sim Stokes. 
Larry Wright 

Played tailback and cornerback at West Monroe High School in West Monroe, La .... earned all-district and honorable mention all-state honors while playing for Louisiana Class SA state champion team ... rushed for 1,680 yards and 20 TDs and 8.9-yard­per-carry average in '93 ... also plays bas­ketball ... father Larry played basketball at Grambling, with NBA Washington Bullets and now is scout with New Jersey Nets. 
Interested in Physical Therapy? 
Come to an informal Meeting Thursday, February 3 at 7:00p.m. 
Get questions answered about volunteer hours, PT school prerequisites, and speakers coming to campus. 

Senior Formal News 
Tickets go on sale Monday & Tuesday (Feb. 7 & 8) in 
Theodore's in LaFortune from 6:00-9:00 p.m. Also on sale Thursday, Feb. 10, in LeMans Hall at SMC from 6:00-9:00 p.m. 
*Don't forget your bid forms* 
Thursday, February 3, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
IF iO\l'RE GO\N~ IF 'iCAJ'RE G::llt-lG 10 K£.\:P \)0\NG 1Cl ~p IX>INE. 1\\~T. I J\JST TH~T. I J\JSi 
~'\ SP..'i Waffi Sll--'( 
AtN\\411-lG. M'i\\IING. 
32 Long short story 
33"-GotMy Eyes on You" 36 Silas Marner, e.g. 
37 Hobbies 
39 Beethoven 
opera 40 Aucklander, maybe 42 16th-century dance 43 China, perhaps 

JAYHbSLER THE FAR SIDE 
BILL WAITERSON 
Tt\E 1\KREil\BL'{ At-tN()'ill'l.G­\\\l~(>.N EG\() STR\K~'S f>,Gfl..\N I 
•, 
DAVE KELLEIT SPELUNKER 

HAVE. 'lou SP<5fi"GD CAS~IOPt.IA OR 
ANDROM£DA '{8", 

45 Word maven so Stereo 
Newman precursor 47 Coli. hotshot 51 Dudley 48lt's on the Do-Right's love 
Tevere 52" ... -saw 49 "Paradise Lost" 
Elba" character 53 Invitation letters 
Get answers to any three clues by touch~tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
GARY LARSON 

,-,.r 
'~ 
SKIP? 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Iron-pumper's 
pride 5 Washerful 9 Make pigtails 
14Columbia 
athlete 15 Oppositionist 16 Diploma word 17 Rattles 19 Comatose 20 Came upon the 
maharajah? 
22 For G, for example, but not H 
23"-Cane" 
(1963 movie) 24 Lead ore 27 Forming 
opinions 
toNI) W\\i ~RE '10\J REPE.II..11NG W\\P-1 I Sll'i" 

55 Double­crossers 56 Muscat resident 57 Point at the table 58 Mountain sign abbr. 59 Star's small role 60 Slaughter in Cooperstown 61 Decline 
DOWN 

1 Deep purple 2 German article 3 Overhead 4Gymshoes sOne of the 
Jacksons 6 One's partner 7 First-stringers aOusts 9 Stupid error 
10 Hit-or-miss 
11 Autobahn auto 12 Creative input 13 "Jurassic Park" 
actress 11 The way things are going 
g.;..j.::..:..j..;,:..t 21 "You're All­to Get By" 
F-+~;+;:;~ 24 Goggled 25 Up and about 26 Strike locations 
R-=:;+:;..!.;.;.J 28 Still r:-+.;;;+.:-:+:::'i 29 Night, in Napoli ~~~.;..) 30LadyJaneand 
Zane 31 Hugo or Tony 32 Neighbor of 



Chad 34 Easter preceder 35 Gives no stars 36Gotanew 
address 37 Sneaky guy? 36 Scratch (out) 39 High numbers? 40 Oscar-winning 
film of 1955 41 Dislike to the max 43 Puts in the 
scrapbook 44 An Astaire 46 Destiny 47 Intrepid Eric? 54 Form-related 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.;::+;.r..~-F--~ 
=+:.:..J.::=+::.j.!.!.j 
++~~,:..t 

·­
-
SPORTS 
page 20 
Thursday, February 3, 1994 

Petrucelli brings in another stellar class 
... ----11E',~'l~·1Z~1~1jC!iiJI::!~~~t!!!l':!!!i311--­
. e bserverfT.J. Harns 
· p t d th Th 0 •
11.
Ch

ns e ruce 1an e women s soc-car team continued their tradition of landing the best talent in the country. 
.-... . ·':.=::~~:. 
NAME Pos. Ht. Wt~ Ken Barry RB 6-0 198 Kurt Belisle LB ·:~tK 6·3 220 Corey Bennett LB 6·2 205 Leon Blunt WR 5·10 178 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Spons Editor 

In 1992, the Notre Dame women's soc­cer program established an entirely unprecedented standard for itself when. it signed arguably the best recruiting class in the nation, a class which featured five starters in its freshman year. 
In 1993, the Irish responded by recruit­ing a class which received as many acco­lades as its predecessor. The class of '97 
f' t d h . . I
ea ure sue sensatwns as natwna 
Freshman Player of the Year and All-American Cindy Daws and the most tal-



Lakeview Terrace, QA (San Fernando) 
PLAYER CAPSULES page 18 
-_.,...,.....,.......,.....,''"·NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SIGNEES 
:: :·· . . .. . . ... : . . . . 
Hometwon (High School) Berkeley, MQ (Priory) Bradley, IL (Bishop MpNamara) Doraville, GA (Cross Keys) 
ented goalkeeper in the program's histo­ry, Jen Renola. 
In 1994, head coach Chris Petrucelli accomplished the seemingly impossible by attracting a third consecutive recruiting class which rivals the best in the nation. 
Petrucelli added four new players to a team which just completed a 19-3 season that included five victories over Top 20 teams and Notre Dame's first-ever tour­nament berth as the Central Region's No. 1 seed. 
"It is again among the nation's best," he said. "You're hard pressed to find four more-talented players going to the same place." 
Cathryn Sobrero, a 5'8" defender from Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, heads a list 
Speed 
Name Home Position Cathryn Sobraro Bloomfield Hills, Mi. defender Holly Manthie. Burnsville, Mn. midfielder Julie Maurd LaJolla, Ca. midfielder Cammie Page Minneapolis, Mn. defender 
which features three members of the national under-20 team. Sobrero was All­State from 1991 to 1993 at Detroit Country Day High School and was named a United States Youth Soccer Association All-American in 1993. She is also an All­Region volleyball player. 
"If there's a better high school defender 
see WOMEN/ page 15 

highlights underrated group 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
There is no Ron Powlus or Randy Kinder, but there may be a Greg Lane or Anthony Peterson. 
These are the hopes of Lou Holtz and Notre Dame fans as they size up the 20 prep stars which make up the 1994 re­cruiting class. 
Notre Dame signed five linebackers and five defensive backs, hoping to fill the void on defense left by graduation. Three wide receivers and a trio of offensive lineman were also inked as the Irish look for depth in two of their thinnest areas. 
"We took the attitude of taking the best athlete this year, natural athletes that can run," said Holtz. "This group can really run." 
SuperPrep magazine ranked Notre Dame's class seventh in the nation. Tennessee earned the top spot and Irish foes USC, Florida State, and Michigan finished two through four. 
"I am happy with this group because there is no individual which I am not delighted we recruited," said Holtz. 
Last year's class ranked second in most polls because of premier players like Powlus and Kinder at the skill posi­tions. 
"This group is not as talented as last year's class but will supplement last year's class well." 
The recruiting trail was a bit rougher for the Irish this year. The negative 
see FOOTBALL/ page 17 
Volleyball recruits are nation's second best 

By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Assistant Sports Editor 
Success breeds contentment, or so the saying goes. 
After the recruiting season that the Notre Dame volleyball team has had, that maxim might have to be reevaluated. 
Coming ofT of its most successful season ever that saw the team accumulate a 27-8 record and come within a game of the Final Four, there is reason to believe that the Irish will be even better next year. 
Notre Dame's quest for national recognition has obviously made believers out of the nation's best prospects, as two high school All­Americans and the California AA Player of the Year all signed let­ters of intent to accept athletic scholarships to Notre Dame next year. 


With a class of such high magni­tude, Notre Dame has pulled down the second best recruiting class in the country. 
The class of 1998 is diverse geo­graphically and by position. The top recruit is Angie Harris from Fort Wayne, Ind., a consensus top-five prospect. She will be joined by Jamie Lee from Spokane, Wash. and Carey May, a native of Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. 
"This year's recruiting class as a whole is the best that I have had in terms of having nationally rec­ognized student athletes," stated Irish head coach Debbie Brown. "They're extremely talented ath­letically. All three are qui.ck, explosive players." 
Harris is the headliner of the group and will likely make an immediate impact in the Irish lineup. A 6-0 outside hitter, she was named one of the Top 10 All-
More Recruiting Recruiting coordinator 
Tony Yelovich and the 
team rolled over

CLUB
Irish staff landed players 
Anderson University in from across the country 
straight sets. but not the Midwest. see page 17 
SIDRTS 
see page 13 
Name Height . Position Angie Harris 6·0 outside hitter Volleyball Monthly All-American Jaimle Lee 5·10 middle blocker I Volleyball Monthly All-American Carey May 5·9 setter .·. California AA Player of the Year 
Americans by Volleyball Monthly , a first team USA Today!Mizuno All-American, and was the most valuable player at the prestigious Mizuno All-Star game held in Long Beach, Calif. 
"I think Angie is the best outside hitter in the country in this year's recruiting class," praised Brown. "She is an exceptional all-around player and has the desire to con­tinue to improve and become the best player possible. I believe that if she desires to play for the 
1 United States Olympic team, she will be able to do that." 
see VOLLEYBALL/ page 14 
Inside SPORTS 

Dominance The men's volleyball 
MENS' SOCCER Berticelli calls men's soccer class 'Notre Dame's best' 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 

Each year seems to exceed the one before. 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team has managed to attract some of the nation's top talent over the past three years and 1994 may be the best yet. 
Four members of the United States Under-20 national team will enroll at Notre Dame in August. 
Ryan Turner, Bill Savarino, Matthew Zimmer and Joseph Gallo each signed national letters of intent. 
"This may be the most highly-regarded recruiting class in Notre Dame soccer history," Irish coach Mike 

Name  Home  Position  
Ryan  Scottsdale,  forward  
Turner  Arizona  

Bill Overland Park, foJWard Savarino Illinois Matthew Manchester, sweeper Zimmer Moussouri Joseph Modesto, midfielder Gallo California 
Berticelli said. "It is another step in our goal to achieve national prominence in the sport of soccer." 
The newcomers know about national prominence. 
Turner, a 6-foot-1, 180 pound forward, turned down an offer to play professional­ly in France, but has trained with the Paris St. Germaine Soccer Youth Club. 
see MEN/ page 14 
Vols No.1 Tennessee was rated as having the best gridiron recruiting class in the country. 
see page 13 

-... 





