

Monday, January 24, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 74 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Peace Corps part of global advancement 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH News Editor 
As technological innovations in information and communi­cation bring world economies and governments closer to­gether, new world challenges are emerging that call for new world solutions, according to National Peace Corps Director Carol Bellamy. 
The Peace Corps can be part of that solution, Bellamy ex­plained to the Notre Dame community Friday. 
In this new multinational world order, national economic lines have become skewed and thinking globally is more im­portant than ever. said Bellamy. 
The Peace Corps' response to the challenge of global focus has been two-fold -on the one hand providing its volunteers with the skills necessary to sur­vive in this new, multicultural atmosphere and on the other by refocusing its own goal to better meet the changing needs of countries requesting aid. 
Currently, the Peace Corps has close to 6,500 volunteers in nearly 90 countries, said Bellamy. Collectively, volun­teers speak 200 languages. 
In order to pull this off. the Corps provides its volunteers with extensive langauge train­ing, but the truly valuable edu­cation comes from the volun­teers "real work experience." 
Although Peace Corps still sendsits volunteers to tradition­al third world ta~:gets like Africa. Asia and Latin America. it has recently shifted focusto­wards eastern European nations including Poland, Russia and the Ukraine. 
The Peace Corps is still con­cerned with traditional areas of developmental aid including agriculture, health and educa­
see PEACE CORPS/ page 4 


By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH 
News Editor 
Almost thirty years after re­turning from assignment in Guatemala, Carol Bellamy is once again faced with the toughest job she'll ever love ­but this time she's in charge. 
July 2, 1993, President Clinton named Bellamy the na­tional director of the United 
Pilkinton remembered for her concern and love 
··.,~:·· 

By CORRINE DORAN chair of the management News Writer department. "She was very full of life," 
Lucy Pilkinton, assistant pro-, said Kevin Drt:ly!'lr. assistapt fessional specialist in the de-'"l professional specialist in the partment of management, de~ communications and theatre lighted in life. department. 
In the four years she spen~:;L.. "People sought out LU.cy at Notre Dame teaching in tfie1\j} Pilkinton because she brought business department, Pilkinton something to business educa­became the heart and soul of tion. She brought a general the English as a second Ian" ense .c:)f humanity and a. C9I1~ guage program at Notr d ern fol' her students asjnd.i.7. Dame, according to Ji viduals," said O'Rourke. "She O'Rourke, dean of the busines had a unique combination of departmellt: .. . <' . qualif~~~HOnst...She taught 
t Pi1kinton 7 died sudden writingi'speaking and inter!!a• Wednesday night ofnatur tiona! communications."' causes, shocking to those th "She very much loved her knew and loved her. She tuden~/' said Mark Pilkinton. survived by her liusban . Lucy filkinton~as dedica1(yd Mark Pilkinton, a professor of · the Jorf!ign·students at communications and theatre Notre Dame, according to at Notre Dame, and two sons. O'Rom:;~e. She was the first 
"She was a first clas$·::·Per$Q:tJtl1.,ywould meetw teacher, a very enthusiasti¢':T they arrived on ~ampus and effervescent kind of per~ workedto make them co son," said Deward Conlo States Peace Corps. Confirmed Guatemala has instilled in her a by the Senate three months particularly "strong commit­later, she became the first re­ment" to two Peace Corps goals turn volunteer to head the -that other countries are able Agency. to know America better by 
As the first former volunteer, knowing its American volun­Bellamy brings with her the teers and that America is able unique perspective of seeing to better know and respect Peace Corps success and fail­other countries through the ures while in the field, she ex­return volunteers. plained following a lecture "You are a Peace Corps vol-Friday afternoon. 
Experience as a volunteer in see BELLAMY/ page 4 
Candidates ready for upcoming vote 
Dame) so heavily for our social life." 
Both tickets are also inter­ested in increasing the in­volvement of students in deci­sions affecting the entire stu­dent body. 
"Student involvement is a huge issue," EI-Ganzouri said. "We will concentrate on little steps that will eventually help the big picture." 
Not only is EI-Ganzouri inter­ested in student involvement with student leaders , but she will also plan events to increase interaction with professors. 
"At such a small school it would not be impossible for the students and faculty to be able to come together outside the classroom as well as inside it," she said. 
El-Ganzouri and Peters are also interested in starting a comprehensive recycling pro-
see ELECTIONS/ page 6 
Full coverage of the candi­dates, their platforms, the debate and The Observer endorsement will run in tomor­row's paper. 

By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Voting for the Saint Mary's Student Body Presidential Elections will be held tomorrow in the dining hall. 
The two tickets running for the presidency are Noha El­Ganzouri and Melissa Peters, versus Deborah Sheedy and Angela McNulty. A debate ad­dressing the candidates' posi­tions on the issues and their platforms in general will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in Haggar Student Center. 
"We encourage all Saint Mary's students to come to the debates because it is important for students to get in touch with the issues and the candidates," Sheedy said. "We hope that there is a greater turnout than last year's debate." 
Developing a strong identity at Saint Mary's is an issue com­mon to both tickets this year. 
"We need to look closely at the true meaning of a Catholic women's college," Sheedy said. "We would like to bring in more speakers addressing women's rights and current issues con­cerning women." 

Social identity is another area that is being addressed. 
"We are interested in increas­ing involvement on this campus to make us stand alone," EI­Ganzouri said. "Both Haggar and Dalloways have a lot of po­tential for both Saint Mary and Notre Dame student use." 
Sheedy and McNulty are look­ing beyond the South Bend col­lege community to Saint Mary's brother school Wabash College in order to increase the num­ber of social events held at Saint Mary's. 
"We have had a relationship of 150 years with Notre Dame," Sheedy said. "We shouldn't ig­nore the great programming that has gone on between the two schools, but we also shouldn't rely on them (Notre 
Fox marker to honor memory 
By SARAH DORAN 

Associate News Editor 
It is a small sign, but one that provides for a great amount of relief to the family and friends o Mara Fox. 
A reminder of the life of a daughter and friend, the sign unveiled on the side of Mara Fox Douglas Road Saturday afternoon may tell lit­tle about the Lyons Hall fresh­man killed at the site in the early morning of November 13, but it will provide for the fur­therance of her memory. 
Spectators gathered at the scene of the accident for the ceremony Saturday as Fox's parents, Col. Charles Fox and Theresa McCarthy of Virginia, uncovered the sign. 
The sign reads "In Memory of Mara Rose Fox 18 years old killed Nov. 13, 1993." 
Sister Kathleen Beatty, rector of Lyons, and several of Fox's friends placed a wreath on the sign post and members of Mothers Against Drunk Driving of St. Joseph County laid a red rose at the base of the sign and also attached a red ribbon to the post. 
MADD of St. Joseph County. who has been working with Fox's mother through a MADD chapter in Virginia, coordi­nated the event. 
Following the ceremony, a prayer service was held in Lyons Hall and a plaque do­nated by the Notre Dame Office of Drug and Alcohol Education was hung in Fox's memory. 
see MEMORIAL/ page 6 



,­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Making dreams into reality 
At night we lay our headl-------­on our pillow, shut our eyes and let the world of imagination and possibility take over. 
Then the next morning we awake to the stone-cold reality that our night of fantasy and dreams was simply an arena of empty images with no tangibili-Michael O'Hara ty, no attempt of materi-Assistant Viewpoint alizing into something Editor more than just a vision of -------­happiness. 
When we are young we all have dreams. We spend a lazy-day wishing for the future and for what it holds for us. 
"I want to be a fireman." 
"I want to be president." 

This postulating soon becomes more than a simple dream. As we get older our actions soon mean more and more in the whole scheme o things of our lives. And then our dreams gradu­ally turn to those of practicality rather than those of possibility. 
Once college comes around, reality comes knocking loud and clear in your ears and your heart. The idealism of previous years comes to butt heads with the reality of making it in this world, and just what that may entail. 
For many, there comes a time when they must choose between what they want to do in their heart and what their mind tells them is the practical thing to do. 
The truly lucky person is the one whose road to supposed financial security is the same as his road to personal fulfillment. The person who can pursue his dream, and make a living doing it. But alas, this person is a true rarity. 
For most of us, dreams and reality come into a direct and nearly unresolvable conflict where a choice must be made and once this decision is made, there is no turning back. It has to be made, and then pursued. 
We all have to make this decision, or it will be made for us. Every person could use a little introspection, especially when making a deci­sion that will shape the rest of you life. 
We must decide what were doing in life, and for whom we are doing it. Are you living your life for yourself, or is it for someone else? Are you doing what you really want? Are you happy? 
Most among us will achieve happiness only through the pursuit and realization of our dreams. Some talk of dreams in abstracts, I talk in the realm of tangibility. I hold to the belief that our dreams are out there waiting for us. If we disappoint them, we disappoint our­selves. 
And if we don't make it, what then? At least you we know that we tried. So many ~eople don't even take the first step, so many gtve up before taking a chance. 
I'm here to tell you to take that chance. You may ask yourself, "Who is this babbling idiot in The Observer and what right does he have in telling me how to live my life?" But look at the options. A world of security and regret or a world of dreams and possibility. I am all for a world of security, but I don't know if the cost is really worth it. 
I refuse to live a life of regret. I don't want to go through life asking myself "what if?". And I don't think you do either. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production Michael O'Hara Whitney Sheets Kate Crisham Jackie Moser 
Sports Accent Jason Kelly Nora Buckley Viewpoint Matt Carbone 
Jason Thomas Tanya Krywaruczenko Michael O'Hara Graphics Lab Tech 
Brendan Regan 
Scott Mendenhall Illustrations Pete Goyer 
The Obsel'l'tt (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday acepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of !he Associated p,..., All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Monday, January 24, 1994 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 
SUPER BOWL XXVIII 
GEORGIA DOME 
Getting to the right level 
The uae of cablaa In the dome's roof construction means no pillars to block spectators'. views. Architects say the des1gn should make every seat a good Upper deck level: Elevabon. 129" 3" one.Youevencanseethefield-~---------­from the concession stands, and 512 television monitors . 
~:~~~du ~~~~~~~ ~~~u8m ~00~. 
play. A feeling of closeness coocouru 92 B 
about the structure belies its rank as the second-largest domed stadium in the world. 
·.. :,:.r%t:::&:<iii~1?:~:::ft.&&i:::.'hl@§;:;'!';&::~:H:;;~;... :.::K~:: ''>i@ibi''ii·>ibd;'imW>·';>k&'d@~klii-oii!kmi 
_Ex_:_ =yp-=-a-d:;-d-;;;-re_s_s_e_s------:C:;::::;-.-h-r---;;l.~S-t-;-1.an &!._r_o_u:g--'h"bu;;-;y:;;in;:;-:g~th~a:lt~.1Th'hey voted Thursday to ask the district 
FORT LAUDER LE, ' a. 
Former Vice President Dan Quayle spoke of family values to about 3,000 religious conservatives, while 1,000 protesters outside called for tolerance 
and an end to bigotry. 
Addressing delegates to a three-day "Reclaim America for Christ" confer­ence, Quayle criticized rap music "that degrades women or advocates killing 

cops" and repeated his complaint that television's "Murphy Brown" glorifies single mothers. 
"I have the utmost respect for single mothers; my grandmother was a single mother. But when everything is said, it is in the best interest of the children to have both a mother and a father in the home," he said. 
The demonstrators outside carried signs suggesting family values were being invoked at the expense of gay rights. Signs included "Hate is Not a Family Value" and "Straight, but not Narrow." . 
"We need to reconcile the differences we can reconcile and learn to live with each other," said Abner Mason, national president of the Log Cabin Club, a gay Republican group. 
School to be named for Bart's school 
GREENWOOD, S.C. 
Springfield Elementary seemed like a nice name for a new school. But wait a minute. Isn't that the name of Bart and Lisa Simpson's school on "The Simpsons?" Don't have a cow, man! Given 10 choices, students who will attend the new school voted overwhelmingly last week to name the school after the Simpsons'. School offi­cials said they didn't realize the connection with the .tele­vision show. "Quite frankly, none of us look at The Simpsons,' including me," said Furman Miller, spokesman for Greenwood County School District 50. But then parents caught on, and they say Bart is a bad role model. "He has no respect for authority, especially not school authority," said the Rev. Jonathan Payne, presi­dent of the School District 50 Joint Parent Teacher Association-Parent Teacher Organization Council. Nonsense, it's just a nice name, argued some students. "Spring is a happy season. A school that would be a happy place to be would ~e Sp~ingfield Elementar1 school," one written suggestiOn said. The parents aren t 
INDIANA Weather 
Monday, Jan. 24 
Accu-Weather~forecast for daytime conditions and 

NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Jan. 24. 
30s Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
FRONTS: 

.........-T'" ..&..&.. COLD WARM STATIONARY c 1994 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
COLOR llil Conceasion .,... 9 Spectator seats 
CODES El Food court • TlckEHoflices [j Men's restfooms 0 
Exterior walkways 
Iilli Ramp/stairs f!l1 Women's restroom& 

Upper level concourse · 
A general seatng levellhal hUi 2ii,502118ats. 2'6 rows. 52led!Onl. 14 oonc:esuon IWV:Is and nwn·s and women's reslroorns 
Areaerveasaabnglevellhalhas12.668seats(140olwtldlarede~as~aeaboQ).16 
fOWl. 52&ectlon8. lour novelty slaodl. etghl: CXM"\C8UIOI"I 5lMdi and men • and women s rasttooms. 
lower level concourse 
:..i:: 


board to drop the name. The district has tentatively approved the name, but says it will accept public com­ments for several weeks before a final decision is made. "We realize we run the risk of being petty," Payne said. 
"The name has a lot of negative connotations we feel we just don't need in our district." 
Gunmen injure seven at roller rink 
BOSTON 

Seveml gunmen wearing hooded sweatshirts burst int.o a roller rink Sunday and shot seven youngsters, authon­ties said. The motive for the attack wasn't immediately known. None of the injuries was life-threatening, hospital officials said. Six boys and one girl ages 12 to 17 were shot. There were about 250 people at the Chez Vous roller rink in the city's Mattapan section at the time of the attack, witnesses said. Four wounded youths were listed in stable condition at Boston City Hospital, said Janet Gentles, hospital administrator. Three others were in good condition at Children's Hospital, spokeswoman Peggy Slasman said. Three people were arrested and charged with unlawful carrying of a firearm a~d ass<l:ult and battery with a dangerous weapon, said police Superintendent James Claiborne. The rink's manage­ment told police that customers were patted down Sunday as they entered the rink, acting Police Commissioner Paul Evans said. 
TV's "Kojak'' dies of prostate cancer 
UNIVERSAL CITY 

Telly Savalas, who made his mark playing movie hood­lums and a tough detective on "Kojak," was remembered Sunday as a charming man as smooth as his signature bald head. Savalas, surrounded by his family, died of prostate cancer Saturday at the Sheraton-Univ~rsal ~otel, said Mike Mamakos, his spokesman and longtime fnend. "He was a true gentleman. He was very profession?-!, always," said actress Shelley Winters, who appeared with Savalas in the 1961 film "The Young Savages" and the 1968 film "Buona Sera Mrs. Campbell." Savalas' shaved head, lollipop and "Who loves ya, baby?" -whic.h grew into a national catch phrase -made Lt. Theo Kojak one of the most memorable characters on television. Savalas remained grateful for the recognition. "I mad~ 60 movi~s before 'Kojak' with some of the biggest names m the busi­ness, and people would still say, 'There goes what's-his­name,' " he once said. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
27  NewYorll  31  18  
35  Philadelphia  32  24  
54  Phoenix  72  53  
66  St. Louis  47  38  
15  San Francisco  58  53  
35  Seattle  52  48  


Atlanta  61  34  Denver  62  
Baltimore  40  17  Dixon  42  
Boston  19  6  Los Angeles  68  
Chicago  40  33  Miami  72  
Colombus  37  27  Minneapolis  37  
Dallas  56  46  New Orleans  61  


Monday, January 24, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS 
Knights gives $5000 to Centers 
ByTOMMORAN 
News Writer 
To mark the anniversary of the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion, the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus donated $5,000 to local Women's and Mother's Care Centers. 
The donation was presented to a representative of the Women's and Mother's Care Centers on Jan. 21, the day before the twenty-first anniver­sary of Roe v. Wade. 
"On the eve of a day that has traditionally been the occasion of political demonstrations by both sides of the abortion de­bate, our Council wanted to do something to help those women that are so often forgotten in our community," said Knights of Columbus Grand Knight Timothy Chasteen. 
The Knights raised the money through the Steak Sales held on campus before home football games. 
Although the Knights donate all their Steak Sale money to charities every year, this is only the third year that they have given money to the Women's and Mother's Care Centers, and the first time they have done so to mark the anniversary of Roe 
v. Wade. Deputy Grand Knight Douglas 
CLUB COLUMN 
January 24, 1994 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition ofThe Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in room 206 Lafortune. 
I. IMPORTANT-The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all Presidents ofgraduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second floor of LaFortune across from the Student Government Office. 
2. THE NOTRE DAME SKI CLUB will be having an informational meeting on Thursday, January 27 for those interested in the spring break ski trip to Jackson Hole. If you have any questions, please contact Dave Zick at 273-3105 or Kevin Malone at 634-1062. 
Maurer says the Knights plan to make this donation an annual event. 
"I think it's a very effective way of responding to that deci­sion," he said, "because this is really going to help some young women directly." 
The Women's Care Center was founded in 1984 with the mission to "lovingly reach out to pregnant young women and give them the help they need so that they can choose life for their babies". 
The Mother's Care Center provides pregnant teens and teen mothers with housing, meals, prenatal and postnatal care, childbirth preparation, parenting classes, and career counseling. Both centers serve the South Bend/Mishawaka area 
Maurer said that the Centers were "ecstatic" over the dona­tions. 
He noted that the Centers usually only receive a few hun­dred dollars in donations from several sources, and that last year the Knights donated approximately $600 to the Centers. 
Maurer said the Centers plan to use the money in several ways, including improvements on the housing for pregnant teens that have been evicted by their parents, and additional psychiatric help for tenants. 
VOTE IN THE 
SMC STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT OF ACADEMIC AFFAIRS ELECTION 
January 25 at the Dining Hall 
7:00 a.m. -9:00 a.m. 
11:00 a.m. -1:00 p.m. 
5:00 p.m. -6:45 p.m. 
Off Campus students vote in the Off Campus lounge 1:30 p.m. -3:00 p.m. 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"1Vewly Remodeled Apartments at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY 


Now TAKING APPliCATIONS FoR '94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 

Nothing but net 
A Notre Dame student does his Michael Jordan imitation during the slam dunk finals of the Late Night Olympics on Friday night. 
Juniors! 
JPW Seating 
Reservations 
(For the Dinner and Brunch) 
Jan. 24, 25, 26 
4-9pm Rm. 112 CCE 
You MUST BE REGISTERED (WITH PAYMENT) TO RESERVE SEATING! 
Check mail for information letter . 
Questions? Call JPW Office 631-6028 
Don't 

FR€AK 
OrtA1C 
Jess! 

You're only turning 20! 
Love, Michelle, Mandy, Dawn, Demian, Mike and Vince 

---~ ­

--~---------~--------------. 
page 4 The Observer· PEACE CORPS Monday, January 24, 1994 
Peace Corps support essential to Hesburgh 
By KATIE MURPHY Chile. They chose Chile," said News Writer Hesburgh. Six Notre Dame students par­ticipated in that first training
Since its establishment over session. Since then, more Notre 

thirty years ago, the Peace Dame students have vol­

Corps has counted University 

unteered for the Peace Corps
President Emeritus Father 

than any other university in the Theodore Hesburgh as one of nation, according to Hesburgh.
its most ardent supporters. 

Over the years, HesburghIn addition to volunteering stopped in at various Peace 
the Notre Dame campus for the Corps duty stations as he trav­first five University Peace Corps 

eled the world. "I keep in summer training sessions, 
touch," said Hesburgh. 
Hesburgh also supplied their 

Several years ago, Notre 
initial service project in Chile. 

Dame hosted a 30-year reunion He was personally acquainted 
for Peace Corps volunteers. 
with Sargent Shriver and 

Loret Miller Ruppe, a Harris Wofford, the authors of University Trustee and former the executive order signed by Ambassador to Norway, was then-President John Kennedy also once director of the Peace 
establishing the Peace Corps. 

Corps.
"I was working with (those) Volunteers currently number two fellows in Washington. I around 6500 and are present in 

met them outside the White 

over 85 countries ori four conti­
House as they went in (the day nents. Hesburgh sees a brightof the signing)," said Hesburgh. 

future for the Peace Corps. 
Shriver and Wofford called "It's probably going to getHesburgh that night because 

bigger. I hope that Notre Dame 
they needed project sugges­people continue to go in the 

tions. 

Peace Corps, because it is a 
"I said I would give (them) 

great experience," said 
one in Bangladesh, Uganda, or 

Hesburgh. Corps "is not to ignore prob­in an effort to "continue to lems at home," she said. "Once bring the world home." 
Bellamy 

you have really made a com­According to University mitment to do some form of President Emeritus Fathercontinued from page 1 service, you will continue to do Theodore Hesburgh, it is not it. And I think you will be able surprising that Bellamy hasunteer for at least two years," 
Bellamy said. "But you are a to do it even more effectively found her way back to the domestically with the interna­Peace Corps. After all, at a
return volunteer for the rest of 

tional experience." Peace Corps 30 year reunion,your life." 
There are currently 300 he noticed that nearly all of the 
Although Bellamy is now 

Peace Corps fellows in the return volunteers were still ac­head of the organization, she is United States, said Bellamy, tive in some sort of service. 
able to relate to the volunteers' working in everything from the "They got the bug in the

work, and its global im­

Boston Housing Authority to the Peace Corps," he said "andportance. 
Los Angeles city school system they'll never lose it." 
To volunteer for the Peace 

WEEK OF JANUARY 24, 1994 


ND STUDENTS VOICE CONCERNS JOBSAVAILABLE 
Do you have take place on Wednes­priate administrative de­Ifyou arc looking for a job, try the NO Job Net­
questions about pari­day, January 26 and partment. The adminis­work. The service is free, and
etals? Concerns about Thursday, January 27 tration has agreed to 
provides information on sum­campus housing? Sug­from 11 am to4 p.m. Stu­carefully examine the 
mer jobs, internships, and 
gestions for improve­dent government mem­input, and, in some cases, even permanent positions. 
ments? Student Gov­bers will be available at send personal replies. The Job Network can be ac­cessed from anycampus com­
ernment is sponsoring tables in front of the el­Students, faculty, puter cluster, and it links 
a network through evator on the first f1oor and staffare encouraged 
alumni seekingemployees and 
which members of the ofLaFortune to listen to to participate. If you 
NO community can your questions, com­voice their concerns to plaints, or suggestions. the administration. All ideas will be 
The activity will forwarded to the appro-
CONVERSATIONS CONTINUE 
Campus Conver-Dean Keane ofthe 
sat.ions will. continue to C<>Uege ofBusiness will take place this semester, speak on February 2 in An administrator will KeenariHall, Dt-.Nathan spt!al<. abo1.1t.ethicsiDhis · ljat¢h ~nd)I)r; H.Ydc::t ..'?~ #~t field, ~<ifeeJ' o~ ··---fr()n.it.Jiiivedit§Re~eai.dh ····_-P_._,_ o_~tu.niW~.s_ -·._alld.__ i_-_e_•_d_.Pea·_> ···--\\rill~rita.k: tin March2il1 ti09a.r programs. ··-The Si~g&i~d fiall/a~dU6h.t 
speechesare••·-irit¢re~ting••··-~t:)p1f1§91"1r·····~)!e~~pb·•••for _<l.rclil'ifornia#vy/~#d,~BP -· I.awandG9Y-etnnientWill dents •are strqpgly en• ~p¢~1{ ~rt )\p[il ~ ih · couraged to att;elld. Flanlle.rHalL 
Peace Corps 
continued from page 1 
tion, according to Bellamy, "but we do it wearing the clothes of 1994 and heading toward the year 2000." 
Education, then, may still be teaching English as a second language in some countries, but it might be teaching childen AIDS awareness or urban sur­viva! in others. 
Notre Dame students have traditionally been active Peace Corps participants -and that has not changed over the years. 
While the Peace Corps is no longer aimed primarily at youths who have just graduated from college, Bellamy encour­aged students to continue to think about the Peace Corps ­not just as a means of service, but as a response to a growing multicultural world. 
students looking for work. 
have a concern, take ad­
Take advantage of Notre vantage of this opportu­Dame's alumni support, and nity to make your voice use the Network when you 
search for employment.
heard! 
BOOK FAIR MONEY STILL LEFT OVER 
Anyone who sold The Book Fair was books in the Book Fair again a big success. must pick up their money Congrats to everyone who by February 9 in the Stu­sold books and to all stu­dent Government Office dents who saved money on on the second floor of books!!! LaFortune from 8-12 a.m. and 1-4 p.m. weekdays. After February 9, the money will become prop­erty of Student Govern­ment. 
~ ­

--------------------------~------­
page 5

Monday, January 24, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 
Whitew-ater: Tax records show Clinton's possible role 

By BILL SIMMONS 
Associated Press 
LITTLE ROCK. Ark 

Most of the $68,900 that President and Mrs. Clinton say they put into the Whitewater real estate venture appears to involve payments of interest on loans they took out for the com­pany and were subsequently able to deduct from their per­sonal income taxes. 
According to tax records and interviews with Clinton advis­ers, the Clintons deducted at least $41,000 on tax returns from 1978 to 1988 for interest on loans for Whitewater Development Co. Inc. 
The Clintons' prime financial 
role at Whitewater may have been to make interest payments for a money-losing company they co-owned. And like most Americans who make loan or mortgage payments, they took the interest deductions. 
The deductions included $19,021 in interest payments itemized on the Clintons' 1980­91 tax returns that they had made public in 1992. They also deducted about $10,000 in Whitewater-related interest in 1978 and about $12,000 in 1979, according to White House senior adviser Bruce Lindsey and Denver lawyer James Lyons, who reviewed Whitewater for the Clinton presidential campaign in 1992. 
The Clintons have not released their 1978 and 1979 
tax returns, but Lindsey and Lyons confirmed the figures in interviews with The Associated Press last week. 
The Clintons began Whitewater in 1978 with James and Susan McDougal to develop a retirement and vacation com­munity in the Ozark Mountains. 
Now federal authorities are investigating whether funds of the Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan that James McDougal owned in Arkansas were improperly diverted to other entities, or used to pay political or personal debts of prominent Arkansans, including then-Gov. Clinton. 
The Clintons and McDougal 
have denied wrongdoing. 
The question of how much 
Crime major focus ofstate lawmakers 
By ARLENE LEVINSON 
Associated Press 
Stop the bloody violence, and you can start by locking up criminal kids and throwing their guns away. That's the public outcry state lawmakers and governors are heeding as they draft laws this busy elec­tion year. 
Handgun bans for teen-agers, except for sport. Life in prison for unrepentant thugs. Boot camps for first-timers. Adult trials and prisons for young incorrigibles. Vasectomies for abusive fathers and weapons­free zones around schools. 
Associated Press statehouse 
bureaus found these and more 
in a mountain of bills and pro­
posals offered in the 44 leg­
islatures meeting this year. 
In sheer volume, anti-crime bills dwarf measures to draft budgets, improve education, fix welfare, get cracking on health care reform, and deal with per­sistent issues like abortion, drunken driving and gambling. 
"As compared to education or the environment," Iowa state Sen. Jack Rife explained, "this is the hot button that gets us all re-elected." 
Overall, reported crime is 
down. The FBI in October 
announced a 2.9 percent drop 
to 141 million reported crimes 
in 1992, the first decline since 
1984. 

But violent crime is up. And 
the violent are more often 
young. 
While arrests of adults for 
murder and some lesser forms 
of homicide rose 11 percent from 1982 to 1991, arrests of juveniles for those crimes rose 93 percent, the Children's Defense Fund reported last week. 
The numbers electrify law­makers like Robin Taylor, a state senator in Alaska, where some people still leave doors unlocked. 
"As these statistics move out 
of Los Angeles, they come 
creeping into Anchorage, and 
from there it will get out to the 
villages and hamlets of 
Alaska," he warned. 
Last year nearly half the 
states enacted laws dealing 
with weapons and youth vio­
lence. This year a dozen pro­
pose gun control measures 
alone, from barring gun own­
ership for anyone under 18, to 
banning assault weapons. 
the Clintons lost in Whitewater has been around since 1992, when his presidential campaign hired Lyons to review their business dealings. 
The campaign report found that the Clintons had "invested, loaned or otherwise advanced" $68,900 to the Whitewater ven­ture "for which you have not received any return." In com­puting the figure, officials said the report counted only pay­ments that came directly from the Clintons. It included the $40,000-plus in interest plus loan principal payments and other costs, Lindsey said. 
Mrs. Clinton took out a 
$30,000 loan from the 
McDougal-owned Bank of 
Kingston in her name in 1980, 
secured by a lot from the Whitewater development. She put the money in the company so that it could put a model home on the lot, McDougal and Lindsey said. 
A loan from the Security Bank of Paragould was obtained in 1983 by the Clintons. It, too, was put in Whitewater and paid off the remainder of the $30,000 loan Mrs. Clinton had obtained in 1980. 
One result of getting loans as 

individuals and putting them in 
the company was that pay­
ments on the loan sometimes 
were made by Whitewater, 
sometimes by the Clintons, 
Lindsey said. This was the case 
with the Paragould loan. 

Clinton aiming at crime in State ofUnion speech 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton plans to ex­pand his anti-crime package with the State of the Union ad­dress, supporting a "three-time loser" proposal to put the most violent felons in jail for life, ad­ministration officials said Sunday. 
With polls showing crime as voters' No. 1 concern, White House speech writers are mak­ing sure Clinton's tough-on­thugs plans don't get lost in Tuesday's sweeping speech to Congress. 
"Crime started out as a small tell them how he is doing the objectives he laid out -not only in the campaign but in the start of his presidency," Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers said. 
Clinton, who campaigned as a "new Democrat," has slowly chipped away at the Republicans' traditional reputation as tougher on crime. He has supported a crime bill that includes 100,000 new police on city streets, boot camps for young, non-violent offenders and a ban on some semiautomatic weapons. 
Expanding his gun control 
stance, the president recently 
asked the Justice Department 
to study whether gun owners 
should undergo the same type 
of licensing requirements as 
drivers. 
Attorney General Janet Reno 
said Sunday her department 
has not completed that study 
yet. Aides said the president is 
not likely to firm up his support 
for the idea in Tuesday's 
speech. 
But he is expected to endorse 
a proposal that would require 
lifetime jail sentences for peo­
ple convicted of three violent 
felonies, said two administra­
tion officials, including the 
White House aide. Both spoke 
on condition of anonymity. 
Appearing Sunday on NBC's 
"Meet the Press," Reno de­
clined to say whether Clinton 
supported the "three-time 
loser" concept. She did say the 
administration wants to crack 
down on repeat offenders. 
"We've got to identify the 
truly bad and put them away," 
she said. 


DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH ORLANDO/WALT DISNEY WORLD 

1----C•O•L•O•R•A•D•O----1 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 

f-----N•E•V•A•D•A-----1 
LAS VEGAS 
S•O•U•T•H C•A•R•O•L•J 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW CALL TOLL FREE FOR FULL DETAILS AND COLOR BROCHURE! 
t • BOO •SUNCHASE 

-----~ ~~----------­
---~----~-----------­
r------­
page 6 
Memorial 
continued from page 1 
Lyons has worked closely with MADD, Students Against Drunk Driving and the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education in an effort to build campus awareness of drinking and dri­ving, according to Beatty. 
"The accident has definitely had an impact on every insti­tution on campus that has tried to take charge of these issues of raising people's awareness," said Beatty. "If you can educate one person, you can save ten others." 
The dorm took the initiative from the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education in spear­heading a red ribbon campaign prior to Christmas Break. During the campaign, members of Lyons helped to place a box a red ribbons, designed to be placed on cars in an effort to increase awareness of drunk driving, in most buildings throughout campus. 
Lyons also sponsored a De­cember Fun Run, which planned to be continued every year, to raise money for a scholarship in Fox's name. One hundred and two of the dorm's residents participated in the run, raising over $3,800. 
Fox was killed when a car driven by Notre Dame law stu­dent John Rita swerved off the Douglas Road and hit her as she was walking back from Macri's Deli, accompanied by four friends after they had given up a lengthy cab wait, according to the St. Joseph County Police. 
Rita, who faces charges of causing a death while driving drunk and leaving the scene of a fatal accident, is scheduled for a Feb. 15 trial. 


Obituary 
continued from page I 
able in the language and cul­ture. 
"Our foreign students are go­ing to miss her deeply," O'Rourke said. 
Dedication and determination defined her actions. 
"It was easy to admire her because she worked so hard, especially to get her Ph.D.," said Reginald Bain, assistant professor of communications and theatre. 
Pilkinton received her doc­torate in theatre after ten years of work last semester from the University of Michigan. 
"It was a huge task. She was so pleased," said O'Rourke. A native of Richmond, Virginia, Pilkinton received her 
Elections 
continued from page I 

gram, a Saint Mary's Fitness Week and a study day before final exams. 
The Sheedy and McNulty platform stresses service and the possibility of a new service center sponsored by both the Sisters of the Holy Cross and involving the Board of Governance. "The SMCSC would provide a concrete Catholic identity that we want to identify with," Sheedy said. 
Sheedy and McNulty are also 
interested in starting a major­
a-month program, and an all­
school video library. 

Experience runs high on both 
tickets. El-Ganzouri is presently 
The Observer/ Jake Peters serving as junior class presi­A memorial marker on Douglas Road will honor the memory of Lyons dent, while Sheedy serves as Le Hall freshman Mara Fox, who was killed at the site on November 13. Mans Hall president. 
"Working on Board Of 
Monday, January 24, 1994 
A.B. from the College of William and Mary and her M.A. from the University of Virginia. 
Her energy and selflessness have made a lasting impression on her friends and colleagues. 
"Her delight in the simple things are what I will miss most," said Dreyer. "It is diffi­cult for me to accept that I won't get a chance to sit down with her again." 
Pilkinton's professional asso­ciation with Notre Dame lasted three years, this being her first as a professional specialist. Before coming to Notre Dame, Pilkinton taught at Saint Mary's College, Holy Cross College and Indiana University at South Bend. 
The MBA students have ar­ranged a memorial Mass for Pilkinton at 5 p.m. today at the O'Hara-Grace Chapel. 
Governance has been a valu­able experience, " said El­Ganzouri. "I have watched and learned from my leaders since my freshman year and I un­derstand the amount of time, commitment and hard work that this position involves. I am willing to put everything into it next year." 
Sheedy feels that any leader­ship position in accordance with a careful study of the con­stitution governing BOG is sat­isfactory experience. 
"Although I haven't served directly on BOG, I feel that my experience as Le Mans Hall president is just as valuable," Sheedy said. "Le ·Mans is a mi­crocosm of Saint Mary's. The residents of the dorm represent all classes and organizations. I have successfully implemented my platform as Le Mans Hall president, and I feel confident that I could do the same for the student body." 


AT THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL ORIENTATIOH WORKSHOPS 
Sunday, January 23 2:30 -3:30 pm 
4:00 -5:00 pm
5:00 -8:00 pm Tuesday, January 25 6:00 • 7:00 pmThursday, January 27 6:00 -7:00 pm 
HOURS OF OPERATION 
Starting Tuesday, January 25 . · . 
Tuesday &: Thursday 7:00 -10:00 pmSunday 2:00 • 5:00 pm 
---------------------------------------------------------------~--------, 
The Observer • YUGOSLAVIA page 7 
Pope urges peace, aid for Yugoslavia 
By DANIElA PETROFF Balkans were held in Roman Associated Press Catholic churches around the world Sunday. VATICAN CITY On Saturday, six children 
On the day set aside by the sledding in Sarajevo were killed Vatican to pray for peace in by shells. It was the latest on former 
the list of horror stories out of regions of Bosnia. At least 200.000 people Yugoslavia, have died since civil war broke Pope John out there 21 months ago. Paul II expressed His voice filled with emotion, spiritual soli­the pope called out to the darity with Bosnians: "You are not aban­Bosnians on doned. We are with you, and Sunday and Pope John will be with you ever more." appealed for His remarks were followed by a free access for Paul 11 long applause from the more humanitarian aid to the war­than 2,000 people gathered in ridden regions. the basilica for the prayer ser­
"We enter as pilgrims on our vice. knees, in those tormented The pope did not specify lands, so that our brothers and whether he was referring to all siste'rs who suffer do not feel the combatants in Bosnia: eth­alone and abandoned," the nic Serbs, ethnic Croats and the pope said in off-the-cuff Muslim-led government forces. remarks at the end of his homi­Past Vatican appeals for peace ly during a special Mass at St. in Bosnia have not singled out Peter's Basilica. an aggressor. 
Masses for peace in the At the end of the Mass the 
ALL USERS MUST attliKD A1l OBO:NTitfiOBl,tmBil THEY WILL B.B ILLO'WilD O,PIN USE 
CALL RECSPORN FOR MORE INroRMATlON 
01·~1~~ 
pope lit a votive lamp, whose flame is to remain burning until the war ends in Bosnia. 
Later, during the traditional Sunday address to the crowds in St. Peter's Square, the pope called on the leaders involved in the conflict to ensure the free flow of humanitarian aid to the devastated areas 
"Arms and mistrust must not stop those bringing food to those who are dying of hunger, medicines to the sick and the injured, concrete help to the poor," he said. 
The pope added that his appeal for a commitment to humanitarian solidarity was addressed to all ex­Yugoslavians, regardless of eth­nic or religious affiliation. 
The U.S. ambassador to the Vatican, Raymond Flynn, called the pope's plea a "dramatic and profound expression" of the frustration "with the inabil­ity of the current process to stem the escalating conflict." 

U.N. spreading blame in Bosnia mess 
By ANDREW KATELL 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

An ocean and a continent away, the generals sent to keep the peace in Bosnia are waging a war of their own, pointing fin­gers and expressing bitter words about their U.N. bosses and member states. 
The commanders are upset they haven't been given either the mandate or enough troops to stop the fighting that has claimed 200,000 lives in the former Yugoslav republic. 
They also lash out at the Security Council for approving overly ambitious resolutions and at the U.N. machinery run by Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for not backing them up. 
Sent to do a mission impossi­ble, the commanders are going public with their feelings of dis­may, frustration and humilia­tion. It is reminiscent of the five State Department officials who resigned to protest U.S. inaction 
. e 
-13 

in Bosnia. 
Diplomats and U.N. officials here are on the defensive, and blame is being spread all around for the failures of the Bosnia peacekeeping mission, whose mandate expires March 31. 
"Everyone's right and every­one's wrong," said one key diplomat on the 15-nation Security Council, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The difficulties are taking their toll on the generals of the 28,000-member U.N. Protection Force, or UNPROFOR. in former Yugoslavia, which includes about 15,000 U.N. troops in Bosnia. 
On Monday, Gen. Francis Briquemont hands over com­mand of U.N. forces in Bosnia to Sir Michael Rose, a lieu­tenant general formerly in charge of Britain's elite Special Air Services commandos. 
In two and a half years of fighting, the United Nations has gone through three comman­ders in charge of all its forces in former Yugoslavia and three others in Bosnia itself. 
Bosnia's U.N. ambassador, Muhamed Sacirbey, says all 
U.N. commanders who spend time in his country conclude 

Cancun Mexico  ~nom$439  
Negril Jamaica  "om$449  
Montego Bay Jamaica  "om$419  
Daytona Beach, FL  ~nom$149  
Panama City Beach, FL  ~nom$129  

la 
On-campus contact: 
· Mike @634-4-451 Angie @634-4659 
~....,........, ..~~"" Michael @634-1121 
0 

1-600-648-4849 
force must be used against Serbs besieging Muslim towns, but are then overruled by over­ly cautious U.N. bureaucrats. 
"When they come to that reality," he said cynically. "it's time to replace them." 
Many of the commanders have left complaining. 
"It has become impossible," Briquemont, a Belgian. told the French daily Le Figaro last week. 
His complaints: harassment by the warring parties, passage of resolutions by the Security Council authorizing the use of force without providing the means to do so, and overly restrictive rules of engagement for U.N. troops. 
"I don't read the Security Council resolutions anymore because they don't help me," Briquemont said. "There is a fantastic gap between the reso­lutions of the Security Council, the will to execute those resolu­tions and the means available to commanders." 
Diplomats at the United Nations say their countries can­not provide more troops because their forces are stretched to the limit world­wide, they don't want to expose them to danger or they don't think they would do much good. 
U.N. 
officials say the com­manders should be more dis­creet about their complaints because going public undercuts 

U.N. 
credibility. Rose apparent­ly has been told to keep his mouth shut. 


"We hope, obviously, that the concerns and the frustrations of our commanders in the field will be handled perhaps some­what more quietly," Alvaro de Soto, a political adviser to Boutros-Ghali, told reporters. 

ITIID11~IrVii1Ir~fitty ~Iffirrfi~11fiii1IID JF~ililCIDw~rronw 
Start out '94 by attending one of these student­led small group Bible studies! 
Tuesdays. 7:30p.m.. Stanford chapel Jennifer, 4-3422 Wednesdays. 7:30p.m.. Morrissey chapel Chuck, 4-3528 Thursdays, 7:00p.m.. Flanner lobby conrad, 4-1374 Thursdays, 8:00 p.m.. Holy Cross Parlor (St. Mary's) Pam, 284-4358 
VIEWPOINT 

page 8 Monday, January 24, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .................... .Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 63I-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 63I-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63I-4541 Day Editor/Production 63I-5303 Business Office 63I-53I3 Advetrising 63 I -6900/8840 Sports 63I-4543 Systems/OTS 63I-8839 News/Photo 63I-5323 Office Manager 63I-747I 
KURT MILLS ON THE OTHER HAND 
Gun control: Ban on private ownership will remedy violence 
Recent events have further second thoughts about their cess on Dec. 15, 1791. At that ment is just plain stupid -the purchase a handgun means spurred on and widened the actions. In this way, some mur­point, the young country had events in Waco last year should that many other people will debate over gun control. The ders may be prevented. recently gained its indepen­put any doubts on that point to make the same kind of security debate has, in the past, focused The NRA argues that this dence, through the use of vari­rest. claims for purchasing hand­on a very narrow range of al­kind of gun control will not pre­ous militia forces, and had not The NRA and others also guns. Thus, guns will continue ternatives having to do with vent all violence. I agree. created the massive standing claim that the right to own a to proliferate, for where do how many days should one However, a nationwide system, army with which the United gun is, first, protected because such guns come from in the have to wait before one can whereby non-"law abiding" cit­States currently attempts to we live in a "free country" and first place? The guns criminals purchase an item which has no izens cannot just cross a border guarantee the security of the thus individuals can do just use, for the most part, were other use except to hurt and kill into a non-gun control state country. about anything they want, and legally bought at one time. people. Apparently five days is and acquire a gun immediately, That the NRA deliberately second, as mentioned above, The NRA says that there is no enough, at least according to will help prevent some gun vio­chose to omit the purpose of the necessary to secure individual empirical evidence that gun Congress. And even that minor lence. It will not, however, Second Amendment indicates and family security. Dealing control works to lessen vio­restriction took several years to come anywhere near address­that they are disingenuous, and with the second issue first, we lence. They are wrong. Both come to fruition against the ex­ing the whole problem. that disingenuousness, in turn, have already seen how gun Canada and Great Britain treme and well-funded lobbying demonstrates that they know ownership and use can actually severely restrict the ownership effort of the National Rifle The NRA claims that people that their argument regarding have the opposite effect. of guns, and they have much Association. need guns for protection an absolute right to bear arms In addition, we seemed lower rates of violence than in 
Opponents argued that such a against non-"law abiding" citi­by "law abiding" citizens does obsessed with obtaining the United States. waiting period will only make it zens, and anyway the not hold water. absolute security, even at the harder for "law abiding" citi­Constitution provides for the expense of other values. In fact, citizens of these coun­zens to be able to purchase uninfringed ownership of guns. All laws have a social pur­Security has a lot less to do tries look in horror at the vio­guns, and that criminals will be Regarding the flrst, it has been pose, and that social purpose with owning the means to kill lence of our gun society, much able to get guns by other shown over and over again, indicates the legitimacy or ille­another human being than it like the Japanese were appalled means. Obviously, a five day that people who try to use guns gitimacy of the law. The social does living in a society where and very puzzled when an ex­waiting period will make it to protect themselves against purpose of the Second the conditions for insecurity -change student from Japan was marginally harder to get a gun. some crimes frequently have Amendment was to ensure "the massive disparities in wealth shot and killed in the U.S. by Some of those "law abiding" cit­the guns used against them. security of a free State." That and widespread poverty -are some paranoid person with a izens that the NRA is so wor­Regarding the second claim, social purpose is no longer not commonplace. Insecurity gun who was later acquitted. ried about do actually use them the Second Amendment to the valid since the security of the and violence will not disappear Strong enforcement has worked to commit crimes, although the Constitution states, in full: "A United States is now ensured -until these core issues are in other countries, so why not rate is less than for those who well regulated Militia, being to the extent that any country addressed. here? do not go through legal chan­necessary to the security of a can truly ensure its security -Related to the issue of insecu­nels. However, probably more free State, the right of the peo­by the organized military of the rity is the supposed right and Banning private ownership of children and other family mem­ple to keep and bear Arms, United States, and by other freedom to address such inse­handguns (as well as assault bers are accidentally injured or shall not be infringed." When I means. curity in almost any manner in weapons which the NRA has killed by guns obtained through lived in Washington, D.C. be­which we see fit because "it' s a pathetically tried to defend) legal means than those pur­fore coming here, I frequently Some argue that people need free country." Most freedoms would eliminate the possibility chased illegally. had occasion to walk by the to have guns to protect them­have some sort of limitations on of gun accidents in the home 
A waiting period will do prin­headquarters of the NRA on selves from the government. them, especially when the ex­and would severely restrict the cipally two things. First, it will Capitol Hill. Many of these same people also ercise of a freedom will have number of possible weapons prevent some criminals from support the ridiculous notion negative social consequences. available to those likely to com­obtaining weapons. Second, it I remember the first time I that if only the people in A person from Alaska told me mit crimes. It will not do the will prevent "heat of the mo­walked by the building I was Tianenmen Square had had a while ago that he was against whole job -addressing other ment" murders where some­amazed to see that inscribed on guns things would have turned gun control because he wanted deeper social problems are also body, usually a man, will buy a the front wall was the second out differently. to be able to take a handgun necessary -but it would be a gun and go kill his girlfriend half of the Second Amendment, They are right -there would with him when he went into the significant and needed start. because they broke up or some­referring to the right to bear have been a much greater Alaskan wilderness to protect thing, or will go shoot some­arms, but the first half, stating slaughter of the students. In himself from bears. At first Kurt Mills is a doctoral can­body else after an argument. why that right was enshrined in addition, anybody who thinks glance this may seem reason­didate in the Department of. 
It will, in other words, impose the Constitution, was omitted. that they can accumulate able. Government and International a cooling off period, during The first ten Amendments enough firepower to overwhelm Studies. His column appears which somebody might have completed the ratification pro-the firepower of the govern-However, permitting him to every other Monday. 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

THIS 15R.OUWCJHm.&Y. AR& Y()(J HOPU&5st.Y CONFUSW ABOUT 7H8 6Rai.JING SCANPAL-CAUE? "WHI7l3J.JA7l3Rf3;:rr&"? IM NOT, BUT IM A PROF&SS!ONAL. NfidSMIW! 

I£TME /3& YOUR GUICJE AS IA/8 5HIXJT THE 77<0UBI..W WATERS 
OF TH& CUN7VN PRES//J&NCY'5 
BACXWATEI< WAT&RSHW. .. 
ASWE SET OUT, IT's 1979. TH& aJN70NS HAV&JUSTJOINWA 
REAL. &57AT8 VeNTURE 
/IJITH JAMf33MC[AJ()SAL_, WHO lATER BUYS A TINY S&L. ATfi/<5T, 7Ht WATfi<S AR& CALM... 

((There is nothing new except that which has been forgotten." 
--Mlle. Bertin 

.-----------------~--------------------------------------------~------------------~----­
ACCENT 
Monday, November 24, 1994 page 9 

-

Dedicated 
college graduates 
offer 
•

servtces to urban and rural public schools 
cants last year were accepted) are brought to Los Angeles for a six week summer training seminar. 
At the seminar, corps mem­bers are observed, videotaped and taught to construct their own lesson plans, according to Lach. After the applicant has passed this stage, they are matched with school districts which have demonstrated a need for TFA teachers. 
Corps members are paid a salary between $15,000­$29,000 depending on the site and the specialized skills of the TFA member, according to Lach. 
While the discipline needs vary from district to district, a general pattern of majors need­ed tends to emerge. 
"High schools need math and science teachers, while middle schools need bilingual teachers (especially Spanish)," said Lach. 
The corps members are unit­ed in not only serving the edu­cation system, but also evoking 
'students bring a new 
perspective that is not infiltrated with the methods of the current system.' 
Elizabeth Lach 

positive change. This change is brought about by the outstand­ing characteristics of the partic­ipants. 
The recent graduates also tend to have open minds about education. "They bring a new perspective that is not infil­trated with the methods of the current system," said Lach. 
"They have enthusiasm, new ideas and a thirst to prove themselves," Durning added. 
The participants are also quickly accepted by the profes­sional teachers with which they work with, according to Indira Tyler, Notre Dame graduate and corps member stationed in a Houston elementary school. 
"Credibility is a matter of trust that must be established, being the new kid on the block," said Tyler. "However, doubts (among the professional teachers) quickly subside." 
The parents and the children are usually very cooperative. "Children value education and are interested in higher educa­tion," said Tyler. "School is seen as a privilige, so atten­dance is good," said Tyler. 
Even with this support, TFA members face some daunting problems. 
"There are lots of challenges. Some students have parents in jail, some come from one-par­ent homes," said Tyler. "One student even found a dead body. This is not your typical childhood life." 
Yet with "willpower, perserverance and determina­tion" Tyler has come up with innovative ways to deal with the everyday challenges. 
She has developed audio tapes for a Latino child to help with English pronunciation. This proved to be more effec­tive and less time-consuming than the conventional drilling exercises. 
Indeed, the most challenging aspect of teaching is not the academics but rather managing a classroom, according to Bird.. 
"Being consistent is the most important thing for teachers," said Bird. "They must be firm and calm when managing a classroom full of 38 different children," Bird said. 
However. to be totally effec­tive, the learning process must extend outside the classroom. This is one of the key aspects of the TFA. Some examples of community outreach programs initiated by TFA members include sponsoring SAT preparatory classes and found­ing sports teams. 
"We've had musicals and 
plays that were the first at the school in 10 years," said Lach. 
It is initiatives like these that make TFA corps members feel like they are doing something positive, however smar. to improve education in Ameuca. 
"Teach for America is not only good for the person, it's good for the country. It's a posi­tive way to change the edu­cation system," said Bird. "It's a worthwhile experience not only for ourselves but for all those children who've been needing us." 
For those interested in apply­ing to the program this year, applications must be post­marked no later than March 15. For more information, call Teach For America at 1-800­832-1230. 

.•....~!; REMENTS FOR ELIGIBILITY 
.:;}%•'· ·. .· ···].t.• 

·•····:f"c···· :1&.>· ~have a· Bachelor's Degree by Jt~.ne.1994 w&%;. !A";~' a cumulative under· gradt,iate G.P.A of 2.5 or high­er a~ the time of the applica· tlol,l..ll,S well as at the time Q 
~adlilf~i)n•f
(l.rt application and e in the interview 

•st~.c 
y complete Teacn For America's Pre-Service lnstitute and Induction 

•meet 
all the requirements o the state school dlstrcit where they are assigned to teach, intluding any required stan­darized tests, routine proce­dures, and interviews 

•take 
the National Teacher's Exam Core Battery 

•be 
a United States citizen or, prior to particiaption in Teach }?or America, have received leg uthorization from the 


Q. immigration and lization Services to 

l'~ fu tb,~ Onlied$tates 

By THOMAS KANE 
Accent writer 
Guns in the schools. Declining dropout rates. A majority of students coming from single­parent families. 
The solution to these growing public education problems: Teach For America. 
Teach For America is a na­tional teachers' corps of indi­viduals from all collegiate majors who commit to teach a minimum of two years in under-resourced urban and rural public schools. 
The program recruits partici­pants from over 150 colleges and universities across the country. 
While Teach For America provides underserved students with outstanding teachers. its mission goes deeper -it hopes to change the education system itself. 
"It's important to emphasize the difference between teaching and the TFA program, which includes a core and a 2-year professional qevelopement pro­gram," said Elizabeth Lach, director of publicity for TFA. 
"Community outreach is an important part of the program. The emphasis of teaching is not just in the classroom, but with the families as well," Lach said. 
Having a broad vision of the interplay between community, government, and education is vital to improving the educa­tional system in the United States, according to Lach. 
"Public education is volatile today," according to TF A core member and recent Notre Dame graduate Peter Durning. 
Durning teaches in New Jer­sey, where there has been pub­lic outcry against tax raises to aid public schools. 
Uneven distribution of tax money is a prime factor in the education problem, according to Eric Bird, another TF A corps member and 1990 Notre Dame graduate. 
"We need to get rid of the dis­parity in school money per child," said Bird. 
This funding problem is just one of the ailments of public education which is addressed at the TFA's training seminar. 
Before being placed in urban sites such as Baltimore, Hous­ton and New York City, or rural regions like Arkansas, Missis­sippi, or the Rio Grande Valley, the applicants accepted into this highly competitive program (only 21% of the 3600 appli­page 10 
Michigan loosens Big Ten logjam with win over Illini 
Associated Press 
Michigan moved the first log in the jam atop the Big Ten conference standings, downing Illinois to leave only three teams tied for the lead. 
The Wolverines escaped from Champaign, Ill., with a 74-70 victory Sunday. Purdue pound­ed Ohio State 101-63, Minnesota edged Michigan State 68-66 and Indiana beat Northwestern 81-76 on Satur­day to keep their shares of the conference lead. 
Illinois fell into a tie for fifth with Tuesday's opponent, Wis­consin. 
In Champaign, Steve Fisher had a choice: Return Juwan Howard to the lineup or face the consequences. 
Howard missed Thursday's game against Minnesota be­cause of the chicken pox but re­turned to the lineup against Illinois. 
"We're hopelessly beaten if we don't have Juwan in that game," said Fisher, whose team still is missing Jimmy King, also afflicted with the pox. 
Howard made two consecu­tive shots at the start of the game and finished with 20 points. 
Michigan (12-4 overall, 4-2 in the Big Ten) blew a 13-point lead in the second half. T.J. Wheeler tied the game at 68 for the Illini (10-4, 3-2) with a free throw with 1:59 to go, but Jalen Rose hit two free throws to put the Wolverines up for good and two more with 12 seconds left to seal the victory. 

Wheeler finished with 23 points for Illinois, including four 3-pointers. 
Northwestern put up a good fight against Indiana but fell short in the final minutes against the highly ranked Hoosiers to remain winless in Big Ten play. 
Damon Bailey scored seven straight points in the closing minutes to seal the victory. 
Coach Bob Knight says the Hoosiers didn't deserve to beat Northwestern. 
"That was a game that hap­pens sometimes, that the team that should have won didn't," Knight said. "If I'm watching this game I have to be rooting for Northwestern." 
Indiana (11-3 overall) had to come from behind for its 22nd straight home victory over the Wildcats. 
Northwestern (9-5, 0-5) took its final lead on two free throws by Todd Leslie and a 10-foot jumper by center Kevin Rankin. Bailey responded with four con­secutive points that put the Hoosiers on top for good. 
Free throws by Todd Leary, who has made 41 straight in Big Ten play, and Brian Evans sealed the victory. 
Bailey scored 16 for the Hoosiers. Cedric Neloms led Northwestern with 22 points, while Leslie added 17. 
Cuonzo Martin scored a sea­son-high 25 points and Glenn Robinson had 24 as No. 12 Purdue routed Ohio State. 
The Boilermakers (16-1 over­all) broke the game open with an 18-1 run in the first half on the way to a 46-32 lead at 
-----~--------------------------------­

Photo courtesy of Michigan Sports Information Michigan coach Steve Fisher has his Wolverines at 4-2 in the Big Ten. 
intermission. They put the game away by holding Ohio State (9-8, 2-4) to seven points in the first eight minutes of the second half. 
Arriel McDonald's 12-foot running jumper with 1. 9 sec­onds left capped a 16-point per­formance and gave Minnesota a victory over Michigan State. 
McDonald, who also had a ca­reer-high 10 rebounds, broke a 66-66 tie by penetrating and putting up the off-balance. shot with hands in his face. 
Shawn Respert, whose 3­pointer tied the score with 36.4 

seconds left, tried a long 3­pointer as time ran out, but his shot fell short of the rim. He finished with 23 points, but connected on only eight of 29 shots. 
Townsend Orr added 13 points for Minnesota (13-4 overall), which was perfect on 10 free throws. Vashon Lenard scored nine of his 11 points in the second half. seven of them in the finalll:l8. 
Anthony Miller added 11 points and 13 rebounds for the Spartans (12-6, 3-3), who shot just 39.1 percent. 
Monday, January 24, 1994 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

,~-~~ ..:::,~<:::( .. 
(Jiiilnat~ Frisbee.. Club: Tryouts for the team tonight at 
10:15 in Loftus. No experience is necessary and both m:en .~nd W.Qmen are welcQilL 
Questions? ... " · · · Call Tony at 232-7316. or Dave at4-3410. 
Ski Trip: There will be an informational meeting for those interested in the spring break trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming O.Jl Thursday January 27 in 127 Niewland at 8 p.m. Questions? Contact Dave Zidar at 273-3105 or Kevin Malone at 4-1062. 
RecSports; There will be a meeting for soccer officials at the JACC auditorium at 5:30 
p.m. on January 27. All inter• est~d officials please attt'l.Jld. 
RecSport~ Deadline is Thursday January 27 for Campus Indoor Soccer and Campus Badminton Doubles. 

n RecSpnrts: There will be a s:ogf!-(!,1,' captains meeting at 5 
p.m. on January 27 atthe J auditorium, ~;! 
Climbing Wall at the Rockne Memorial: Orientation work­shops are on Tuesday January 25 from 6-7 and Thursday January 27 from 6-7. 
All users must attend an ori­eptation before they will be allowed open use. 
Hours of operation starting the 25th ~re Tuesday and Thursday 7·10, p.m. and 
Sunday 2~5. ·~ •. . · · CalLRecSports at 631-6100 for more jnfol'Jnation. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 3I 4 LaFortune and from I 2 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks ND ave & Howard 233-2342 /1 0-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Grey metal double cross ear­ring between 2nd floor PW and North Dining Hall on 1/14. Call Bridget at 4-2965 if you found it. 
I lost a silver chin with a cross walking from Roalfs to Alumni in the snow. If you find it I would really appreciate it if you would call me. Todd # 1251 
LOST: EYEGLASSES IN TAN 
CASE. CALL AMY X4966 
Lost my two car keys. They are 
bound to a medal with St 
Christopher on one side and Notre 
Dame de Paris 
on the other. Please call Huy 273­
5859 if any info. 
$$$$REWARD$$$$ 
for the return of my long dark 
green coat (Harry Levine Petite) 
that disappeared from Club 23 
last Friday. Please help; I'm very 
cold. 
Call Kate x-1564 
No ?'s asked! 
LOST: several keys on a round 
United States Senate key chain. 
One of the keys is a big black 
Honda key. Another is a blue key. 
Please call Joe at 234-6306 with 
any information. 
WANTED 
ND grads need babysitter on Mon 
or Fri for 4 hour period. Must have 
car. Near campus. Call Liz at 232­
5790. 
Need revue tickets bad!! 
Call Tom x-1747 

****SPRING BREAK '94**** Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 11 0% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREEl TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. 
GOOD OPPORTUNITY FOR GRAD STUDENT SPOUSE Professional couple seeks mature, responsible person to care for newborn in our home about 40 hrs/wk. Must be non-smoker, provide 3 references, have own transportation. Position available end of March/beginning of April. Send personal info to: "Childcare Provider" c/o 6910 N. Gumwood Rd, Unit 1 Box 14, Granger. IN 46530. 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour companies. World travel. Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 
$700/wk. canneries; $4500/mo. 
deckhands. Alaska summer fish­
eries now hiring. Employment 
Alaska 1-206-323-2672 
Help! I need a ride to Cleveland, Ohio (or all the way to Erie, Pa. if you are going that far) the weekend of Jan. 28. Very friendly, $$for gas, tolls, etc. Call Brian x3043 
SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+ in salary & benefits. Ski/Snowboard instructors, lift operators, wait staff. chalet staff+ other positions (includ­ing summer). Over 15,000 open­ings. For more information call: (206)634-0469 ext. V5584 
FEMALE MODELS for suggestive 
but tasteful pin-up-type photos. Call 
273-7074 after 5 for info. 
I need GARTH BROOKS tix!!!l 
PLEASE call4-1477 
FOR RENT 
NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM $225. MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO. AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306 
SUMMER OR FALL "94".LARGE 6 BDRM HOME 2 BATHS. 1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. ALL HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306 
FURNISHED 8 AND 4 BEDROOM HOUSES 1 MILE NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
APARTMENT. 132 MARQUETTE, 3 BLOCKS FROM ND, 1500 SQ. FT., 2 BR & 1 BATH, HARDWOOD FLOORS, FIREPLACE, GREAT NEIGHBORHOOD, OPEN FEB 1 TO JULY 31, $500/MO. +UTILI­TIES, CALL 234-1744 
Roommate to share 3 bedrm home. $250 mo. 5-min drive. Call 232­7175 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
SECURITY SYSTEM 
ALL APPLIANCES 
1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 232 2595 
FOR SALE 
SPRING BREAK CANCUN Best pkg around.CollegeTours econ.&lux. trips Can lind extras if needed -<:all reps 4 fliers & 
prices X232-71 09 
GARTH BROOKS TICKETS FOR SALE!! Call 273-6548 and leave a message with your offer and how many tick­ets you need! 
TICKETS 
WANTED: One student ticket for 
ND basketball game Monday (Jan. 
24) for visiting friend. Please call/leave message for Brendan. Phone 631-8839 or 277-4847 any­time. 
I need 4 tix. 4 CARROT TOP X1646 -Toby 
Will pay $$BIG BUCKS$$ for Garth Brooks Tickets. Call Sarah at #3818. 
NEED I GARTH BROOKS TICKET SAT 2/12. KATIE X4067 
PERSONAL 
JPW wknd confrmd reservation 
@ Jamison Inn avail. for trade for cnfrmd hotel res. Stanford wknd, Sep29-0ct1 call Paul1-800-538­9363-(xt)5128 
IF YOU'VE BEEN ON A LUCKY STREAK LATELY, LET A KNOTT 
ANGEL KNOW! 

KNOTT'S CASINO NIGHT 
JAN.28 

###################### 
ALUMNI AWARENESS WEEK 
TODAY--TODAY--TODAY 
OPEN HOUSEl I I I I I 
From 1-5 @ the Alumni Office 
room 201 Administration Bldg. 
Please stop by and meet the 
Alumni Association. 

REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED 
ALUMNI AWARENESS WEEK 
######################## 
SOPHOMORES!!!! 

Form turn-in for Sophomore Sibs 
Weekend is Jan. 31 in the Sorin 
Room from 3-6:30 p.m. 
Don't miss out on the opportunity to share Notre Dame with your sib. 
All monies, forms, etc. should be 
turned in at that time. 

Spring Break Bahamas Party 
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes 
Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free 
Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! 
1-800-678-6386 

RAP Re-evaluating Around the Plunge 
with 
Demetrius Marlowe 
for 
Urban Plunge and SSP alumni 
from this year and past years 
CSC Coffee House 7-8 p.m. TONIGHT Monday, January 24 
Call631-5293 for more info 
Demetrious Marlowe is the acade­mic advisor for ND student athletes and an African-American who has been involved in many aspects of cultural diversity at ND. Don McNeill, C.S.C., Director of the Center for Social Concerns, will facilitate the discussion. 
SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786­8373 
Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica! Fly out of Chicago and spend 8 days on the beach! We have the best trips & prices! Includes air & hotel & parties from $399! 1-800­678-6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 days oceanview room with kitchen $119! Walk to best bars! Includes free dis­count card -save $50 on cover charges! 1-800-678-6386 
Florida's New Spring Break 
hotspots! Cocoa Beach & Key 
West! More upscale than Panama City/Daytona! Great beaches & 
nightlife! 8 days in 27 acre Cocoa 
Beachfront Resort $159! Key West 
$2491 1-800-678-6386 
HEY!! A guitarist and drummer are looking for a bassist and guitarist to form a really brutal band. Experience and equipment are a must! If interested, call Rob at x4330 Thanks! 
SOPHOMORES!!! 

JPW escape is Feb. 18-20 but tix go on sale starting Jan. 17. Sales are from 3-5 on M & W and from 6-8 on Tu and Th. 
Only $50 gets hotel, trans. and tick­et to Phantom or 2nd City. First-come first-served. Supplies are limited. 
4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help each other. Med/legal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 
1-800-864-8385. 
THE ALUMNI ARE COMING !!! 
THE ALUMNI ARE COMING !!! 
Alumni Awareness Week January 24 -28th 

Open House at the Alumni Office Monday from 1-5pm Escape from the cold and enjoy hot chocolate and snacks. 
URGENT! anyone going or wanting to go to janet jackson concert, Indianapolis call4-1305 
*'"****BEAT THE RUSH***'*'** VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching, and if you want to write a classified to that special someone. you can type your ad now. Your message will appear in the special Valentine's Observer on Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd floor of Lafortune. 
<><><><><><><><><><><><><> 
SCAVENGER HUNT 

***'**Clues will be in the classilieds 
***"*Monday through Friday. 

PRIZE: $100 GIFT CERTIFICATE 
FOR MUSICLAND 

<><><><><><><><><><><><><> 
WANTED: PORNO ADDICT who snuck into our apartment on the night of the Oak Hill Snowball and charged a porno flick to our cable bill. Fess up you twisted, sick, and perverted Domer and pay the $4.95 that you owe usl!! 
r-.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~----­
Monday, January 24, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
Bobby Knight admits he deserved school's suspension 

Photo courtesy of Indiana Sports Information 
Indiana coach Bobby Knight says he was suspended for yelling at the crowd, 
not for kickino his son. 
But he says it was due to his outburst toward crowd 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Indiana coach Bob Knight says he deserved the suspen­sion he received from the uni­versity for his actions in a Dec. 7 game against Notre Dame. 
Knight, speaking out for the first time since the incident, said he never kicked his son, Pat. He admitted kicking a chair, but he said the suspen­sion stemmed from his shouts at fans who booed his earlier actions. 
Knight's version was reported Sunday in an inter­view with The Indianapolis Star. 
"How many times have you seen Indiana play basketball? It's a Jot. All right, now many times have you seen me kick a chair? A lot," he said. "How p1any times have you ever seen me kick a player? 
"So I rest my case on that part of it," he said. 
The incident began with a bad pass by Knight's son dur­ing the game. The elder Knight called a timeout after the Irish scored off the turnover, and pushed his son into a seat. 
What happened next is up for debate: videos of the game show Knight kicking at some­thing. Knight says it was a chair, but many fans thought it was his son's leg. 
Fans reacted by booing the coach, even though the game was being played on the Hoosiers' home court. 
Knight turned, glared at the offending fans and responded with four-letter obscenities. 
"How many times have you seen me yell at a player? God can't count that many times," he said. "Now, how many times have you ever seen me yell at people in the stands? 
"Never! So that's a different thing," he said. 
Indiana cited Knight's ''unsportsmanlike conduct'' when it suspended him for the Dec. 10 Indiana­Tennessee Tech game. It was the first time the university had suspended Knight, though the Big Ten had sus­pended him for one game in 1985 for throwing a chair during a home game against Purdue. 
The Big Ten declined to take further action against Knight this time, saying the university's suspension was appropriate. 
"I've seen coaches in this league since grab kids by the shirt. I've seen coaches in this league since yell at kids. I've seen coaches in this league since kick the floor, kick tow­els, take their coats off, throw 'em down, kick chairs. I've seen everything," he said. 
"What I haven't seen is a coach yell at the crowd, which is something I admit­tedly did and I think that sep­arates the issue from any­thing else." 
Knight said he had no quar­rel with the suspension. 
"In view of what happened, the exchange I initiated with the crowd, I don't think it was either unusual or unneces­sary when one reads the rule," he said. 

LARGE PIZZA 

PLUS TAX 

STORE HOURS 

SUN-TH 4:30-1 am 
FRI-SAT 4:30-2am 
CHEESE PIZZA TOPPINGS $1 EACH­VALID AT THIS LOCATION ONLY EXPIRES 5-13-94 1835 SOUTH BEND AVE 
PRODUCT SERVICE GUARANTEE: 
IF FOR ANY REASON YOU ARE UNSATISFIED WITH OUR PRODUCT OR SERVICE, PLEASE CONTACT THE STORE MANAGER IMMEDIATELY ­AND WE'LL FIX IT. 
® 

DOMINOS PIZZA 
271-0300 
Belles 
continued from page 16 
better," said Popp. "I expect we will keep progressing and our times will get faster." 
Janson agreed. "As we con­tinue to work and get our en­ergy back, I expect that we will continue to drop times." 


London  $395*  
Paris  $389*  
Madrid  $389*  
Munich  $515*  
Milan  $585*  

•Airfares are roundtrip from Chicago. Restrictions apply, taxes are not included and fares are subject to change. Call for otherworldwide destinations. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearbom St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 

Call For A Free Student Travels magazine 
CHICAGO TANS gives you the BEST TAN FOR YOUR MONEY! 
BUY4 I BUYS IBUY 6 
GE.T 4 T G E_l5 T..G_E.T 6 
FREE! 
Get The Idea? 

t0181go Hair GlUingCo.' 
INDIAN RIDGE PlAZA Next to Vonrurt Gr2pe Rd., Mishawaka 
277-7946 

HOURS: Daily 9 to 8 Sat. 9 to 6 Sun. 11-5 
-

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, January 24, 1994 
Jimmy Johnson knows how to pick 'em 
Cowboys help their coach keep his foot out ofhis mouth 

was over. Eddie Murray tacked 

stuck squarely in his jaw. Johnson meant nothing so 
on a 50-yard field goal and the 

He wondered about neither. much as toughness. Back then,
49ers scored a meaningless TD 

"It wasn't much of a predic­he cut one player for fumbling,at the end. 
tion," Johnson said in a rare another for missing a "volun­
"I thought Jimmy Johnson's 

moment of modesty. "But ev­tary" practice and yet another 
comment was insane," said eryone made such a big to-do. I for falling asleep during a film 49ers wide receiver Jerry Rice, really did it for our football session. Back then, Johnson who had six catches for 83 team. was not averse to showingyards. "But I guess it was accu­"I did it so we'd be loose and players the back of his hand. 
rate.'' 

1 9 
CONTESTANTS: 
HOSTED BY: John Mele 
Paul Noonan Pete O'Rourke 
Bill Dailey Mike Johnson Bill Kempf Mike Schmiedeler 
FEATURING: Frank Timons 
Interested in 
Bovine Solution 

beinJJ the JPW Chaarperson? 
Pick up applications at the LaFortune Info Desk Jan. 22·26
-
Applications Due Jan. 27 
Prediction comes true as Dallas dominates 49ers 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associa[ed Press 
IRVING, Texas Jimmy Johnson is a prophet and a healer. 
True to Johnson's word, the Dallas Cowboys beat San Fran­cisco on Sunday and headed to their second straight Super Bowl against the Buffalo Bills. 
And Emmitt Smith, whose separated shoulder was pro­nounced "healed" by Johnson last Tuesday, dominated the 38-21 victory with 144 net 


mattered this week. 

about the last name on every­his boast was hardly the reck­
His replacement, Bernie 

one's list. less gamble everyone outside Kosar, threw a 42-yard TD pass But s·unday, after Johnson's the Cowboys' training camp as­to Alvin Harper to open a 21­remodeled version of the 'Boys sumed it to be. 
point lead just 3:23 after the 

pummeled San Francisco 38-21 
Niners cut it to 14 points and and set off in pursuit, again, of "I thought Johnson's com­

seemingly grabbed the mo­the Buffalo Bills, a second ment was insane," San Fran­

mentum on a 4-yard TD run by Super Bowl title and the start of cisco's Jerry Rice admitted af­Ricky Watters. 

another era of Dallas domina­terward. "But I guess it was tion, his was the name on ev­accurate.'' 
"The San Francisco 49ers are erybody's lips. How accurate only Johnson a great offensive team," said Especially his own. still really knows. What the rest Kosar, signed as a backup for More than a few people won­of us can surmise is that he $1.5 million after being cut by dered whether his IQ was as looked at practice early in the Cleveland. 

large as his shoe size when he week and saw bruises and "They scored that TD to get picked up the phone Thursday lethargy and doubt, the left­within two scores. We realized evening and called a radio overs from a sluggish win over we needed to put a drive to­show to make the now-famous Green Bay in the opening­
gether and get some first 

boast: "We will win the ball­round NFC playoffs.
downs. We didn't want to go 

game. And you can put it in 
three and out and punt from 

three-inch headlines. We will There was a time, when he our own 10-yard line." 
win the ballgame.'' And a few first rode into town five years others wondered how Johnson ago behind owner and close pal 
That made it 35-14 and it 

would go on talking with a foot Jerry Jones, that preparation to yards in the first half when the Cowboys took a 28-7 lead. 
"I've been talking all week," Johnson told his team after the game. "If you're gonna talk the talk, you gotta walk the walk. Thanks to you guys, y' all did the walkin.' 
"This week I'm not gonna say a word, but you know how I feel. All I gotta say is: How 'bout them Cowboys!" 
Overall, Smith rushed for 88 yards and caught seven passes for 85 yards, and the Cowboys made it look even easier than Johnson's prediction Thursday night on a local radio show. He said the game would be close for three quarters and the Cowboys would break it open in the fourth. 
They did it two quarters ear­lier, scoring touchdowns on four of their five first-half pos­sessions and breaking loose with two TDs in less than four minutes after the Niners tied it at 7 on the first play of the sec­ond quarter. 

They added a fourth touch­down with 58 seconds left in the half and then held off San Francisco in the second half after Troy Aikman was knocked out of the game when he was hit in the head by Dennis Brown's knee. Aikman was hospitalized with what trainer Kevin O'Neill said was probably a first-degree concussion "maybe more than that. He didn't know what day it was." 
"Let's see how the tests come out and we'll go from there," O'Neill said of Aikman's fitness for next week's Super Bowl. 
But Aikman's absence hardly 
By JIM LITKE 
Associa[ed Press 

IRVING, Texas Big hair, big ego, big dreams, bigger mouth. 
If neither Texas nor football existed before Sunday, some­body would have had to invent both to make sure C.W. John­son's very ambitious, very en­ergetic son had some place to go to and something to do. 
Of all the people who could have replaced Tom Landry, the bald and taciturn coaching leg­end who engineered the Dallas Cowboys' first grand tour of the NFL, Jimmy Johnson was just 
JANUARY 29, 1994 STEPAN CENTER 8:00P.M. 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT LOGAN CENTER Tickets are on Sale for $3.00 at the LaFortune Info Desk and through Stanford Hall 
have that underlying attitude, you know, bottom line ... no ex­cuses ... win. And our guys re­sponded. They were kidding me the last few days that I wrote a check for them and they'd have to pay. 
"Well," Johnson said, "they did." 
Johnson's methods some­times seem like madness. But there may not be a more re­sourceful coach in the game. Nor a better motivator. Nor a shrewder judge of talent. 
And for all his spouting of New Age psychology, no one reads the mood of a team bet­ter than Johnson. Which is why 
-~---~-----------------------~-­
Monday, January 24, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Buffalo's back again, thanks to Thurman 
Bills capture fourth straight AFC crown 
By BARRY WILNER 
Associated Press 
? 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. Sorry, America, the Bills are back and Joe's not. 
The Buffalo Bills advanced to an unprecedented fourth straight Super Bowl on Sunday, beating Joe Montana and the Kansas City Chiefs 30-13. 
What much of the nation outside of western New York feared -the only team to lose three consecutive Super Bowls, heading to Atlanta to try again ­came true because Thurman Thomas was unstoppable. 
"All you can ask in life is to have an opportunity," All-Pro defensive end Bruce Smith said. "We have an opportu­nity and we're going to take advantage of it." 
Added quarterback Jim Kelly, "I think nearing the end of the week, more peo­ple were turning toward us and saying, 'You guys have accomplished a lot and if you guys get there, we'll be pulling for you.' We don't have to prove anything to anybody. We're champions in our own mind.'' 
To win the NFL championship, howev­er, the Bills must defeat Dallas, the team that routed them 52-17 in last year's Super Bowl. The Cowboys beat San Francisco 38-21 in the NFC title game. 
The Chiefs, who lost in their first championship game since the 1969 sea­son, and Montana, 4-0 in Super Bowls, were kept off-balance by Buffalo's aggressive defense, led by Smith and linebacker Darryl Talley. 
The Bills knocked Montana from the game early in the third quarter, while Kansas City's defense kept groping at Thomas, who rushed for 186 yards ­131 by halftime -and three touch­downs. 
"We believed in ourselves and the organization," Thomas said. "We hung together as a team. 
"Going into the Super Bowl, we know what it takes. We know the mistakes we can eliminate. You have to rank this right up there with when we beat the Raiders in 1990. For this one, a lot of people didn't want us back. But our job is not done yet.'' 
This was the same Thomas who rushed for only 44 yards on Nov. 28, when the Chiefs battered the Bills 23-7. The NFL's combined yardage leader when the Bills won the AFC title in 1990, '91 and '92, Thomas went over 1,000 yards rushing in playoff competi­tion with his biggest playoff output and second most of his career. 
Buffalo, which lost the last three Super Bowls by a combined 109-60, has won its four AFC titles by an aggregate 120-33. 
"We might have fallen to defeat the last three," Kelly said, "but that doesn't mean a thing. To the people who didn't want us, sorry.'' 
Joe Montana misses magical moment 
By HAL BOCK 
Associated Press 

ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 
For two magic minutes, he was the old Joe Montana, slick and quick, whipping passes, moving Kansas City methodical­ly down the field. 
Gone were the miserable first 28 min­utes of Sunday's AFC championship game against Buffalo, a 3-for-14 disas­ter. Gone were the drifting, fluttering passes. Suddenly, he was Joe Cool, crisply completing four straight passes, and five of six, moving the Chiefs to the Bills' 5-yard line. 
One more pass and the Chiefs would be on the board, down just a touchdown at halftime. One more, Joe. 
"Ifwe score, maybe everything is a lit­tle different," Montana said, a thin smile on his lips. "We got going. We get the ball back at the start of the second half." 
He threw for the end zone and the ball was right there, in the hands of Kimble Anders ~ but then it bounced out and into the hands of Buffalo's Henry Jones. 
It was the end of the drive. And short­ly after that, it was the end of Montana. 
Sacked for a 5-yard loss by Darryl Talley on the first play of the third quar­ter, Montana came back throwing on the next down. He scrambled a bit before finding Keith Cash for 17 yards over the middle. 
Just as he threw the ball, Montana was hit from behind by Phil Hansen. And on his way down, Bruce Smith met him from one side and Jeff Wright arrived as well. 
As Hansen hit Montana, the 37-year­old quarterback pitched forward, head first, on the frozen turf. The collision was frightening and it was not surpris­ing when Montana stayed down, clutch­ing his helmet, almost as if he was try­ing to keep his head on his shoulders. 
"I don't remember much about the play," Montana said. 
"There were about three of us that hit him," Smith said. "I think when he came down, his head hit the carpet and he went 'Ohhh!" You knew something was wrong.· I asked him if he was all right but he couldn't comprehend what I was saying. He was out of it.'' 
"My head hurt and everything went white for a couple of seconds," Montana said. "I had a sharp pain in my head.'' 
Montana was helped off the field, list­ing a little, looking like a broken-down quarterback than the folk hero. 
On the sidelines, he sat on the bench, hands folded in his lap, a sort of vacant look in those electric eyes that have dis­ected NFL defenses so thoroughly over the years. 
The word from the Kansas City bench was that Montana was dazed and being re-evaluated. No re-evaluation was nec­essary. Joe Cool was done for the day, finished after 9-for-23 and 125 yards, the last 17 of which he never got to see. 
It was an hour after the game, and Montana had showered. He spoke clear­ly and yet he wasn't all there. 
Hockey 
continued from page 16 
Bales scored his third goal of the year, followed by junior Troy Cusey's second goal of the season. 
Louder started in goal for the second straight game and made 30 saves. 
"We didn't capitalize again," said Schafer. "The story of the weekend was that we don't have a sniper that we can count on to score a goal when we need it. We don't have a game breaker on our hockey team." 
"We could've won both games, but we could've easily lost both games," concluded Ling. "We can play Michigan tough next week." 
Notre Dame will be back in action at the Palace of Auburn Hills in Detroit against No. 1 ranked Michigan on Saturday. 

----------------~-­ -------------~----------~  
page 14  The Observer • SPORTS  Monday, January 24, 1994  

Track opens indoor season at Purdue Invite 
Observer Staff Repon 
The Notre Dame men's track team opened their 1994 indoor season Saturday at West Lafayette, Ind., participating in the Purdue Quad meet. 
Senior co-captain Todd Her­man placed first in the high jump with a jump of 7-1. Sophomore teammate Tom Mescall followed Herman with a second place finish in the long jump with a leap of 22­21/4. 
Todd Johnston and junior Brian Headrick placed fourth and sixth with respective jumps of 6-7 and 6-5 1/2 in the high jump. Junior Dan Grenough fin­ished second in the pole vault with a vault of 15-3. 
In the sprinting events , se­nior Chris Lilly placed third in the 55-meter hurdles with a time of 7 .68, and sophomore Aaron Schielke ran a 50.55 in the 400 meters for a fourth place finish. 

The Irish had a host of strong finishes in the middle distance with Joe Currand and Jeff Hoj­nacki placing first in the 600 and 800 respectively. 
In the mile run, sophomore Andrew Burns finished third and senior Jeff Matsumoto placed sixth. 
Sophomore Mike Fleish was Notre Dame's top finisher in the shot put, with a sixth place finish, while senior Brian Kubicki followed with a seventh place put. 
The Irish are idle until Jan­uary 28-29 when the Midwest­ern Collegiate Conference Championships come to Notre Dame. 

Irish fencers sweep weekend matches 
Observer Staff Repon 

The Notre Dame's men's and women's fencing teams each defeated Michigan State, host Wayne State, Detroit Mercy, and Michigan Saturday. 
The sabre's team 6­3 win over the Spartan sabremen lead the Irish in their 18-9 win against Michigan State. Senior Bernard Baez and senior captain Chris Hajnik finished 2-0 while freshman Bill Lester and Jeff Wartgow each added a win. 

The foil team's 9-0 shutouts of Wayne State and Michigan carried the Irish in their 16-11 win over the Tartars and 23-4 Iaugher against the Wolverines. 

Junior Jordan Maggio had six wins, sophomore Paul Capobianca and fresh­man Jeremy Siek had each recorded five wins and junior Conor Power had three wins. 
In Notre Dame's 25-2 rout of Detroit Mercy , the epee squad finished a per­fect 9-0 against the Titans. Seniors Rian Girard and senior captain Grzegorz Wozniak both went 3-0 against Detroit Mercy. 
"We came in with a take no prisoners attitude today, and with our outstand­ing results today I think that we accom­plished it," said men:s coach Michael DeCicco. "We really stepped up today and won the crucial bouts when we needed them. We proved that we be­long among the elite of the Midwest. I am really pleased with how we are coming together as a team." 
The women's foil team was equally impressive today in its victories. 
The Irish lost only seven bouts in their 15-1 win over Michigan State, 11-5 win againt Wayne State, 16-0 romp over Detroit Mercy and 15-1 creaming of Michigan. 
Senior Noelle Ries cruised to a stellar 9-0 record on the day while senior Monica Wagner went 8-0. Sophomore sensation Maria Panyi rolled to an im­pressive 7-0 against the overmatched competition. 
"Maria was just awesome today in her collegiate debut," said Irish women's coach Yves Auriol. "She had three touches against her in seven bouts, which is unbelievable. As a team, we definitely proved that we are among the tops of the Midwest." 
Saint Mary's hoops dominates Anderson, 67-55 
By ANNE NAPIERKOWSKI 
Spons Writer 
After a week of difficult and disrupted practices, the Belles remained focused to continue their winning streak when they dominated Anderson University 67-55 Saturday afternoon. 
"It was a tough week for us," said coach Marvin Wood, "but the team has really come together." 
The Belles came together to pull ahead of Anderson 64-40 in the last five minutes of the game. Despite Anderson's explosive 15 point run in the remaining minutes, the Belles stayed in control to secure the win. 
"We didn't get too worried," explained freshman guard Sarah Kopperud, "we were confident that we would pick things up again." 
Much of the Belles' confidence has been in forwards Anne Mulcahy and Jennie Taubenheim who led the attack Saturday with 20 points each. 
"The team has been really patient in working the ball," explained Taubenheim, "we're not forcing it." 
Another key player in Saturday's game was freshman forward Katy Lalli who chalked up 10 point and 15 rebounds. 
"We had a lot of turnovers, but the team was rebounding well," said Lalli. "There wasn't just one person, the whole team was playing together." 
With the win against Anderson, the team is confident going into tonight's game against Olivet at 7 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. 
"No matter who we're up against, I know we can play with them now," said Kopperud. 
For the remaining games the Belles will continue concentrating on their zone defense and shooting. The prac­tices have been effective in developing the team's talents and in bringing the players closer together. 
"The team's chemistry is good, they know what to expect from each other," said coach Wood. "It is one of the best teams I've worked with at Saint Mary's." 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 IPS 

Center for Social Concerns 
ffie.)CtCO Setntnm.-r 
May 9 -26, 1994 in Oaxaca, Mexico 
(leaving time for summer work) Service-learning cosponsored by Maryknoll 
One credit Theology Spanish not required 
Applications at the CSC 
Information Meeting: Jan. 25, 1994 4:00PM at the Center (optional) 
If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a By the time you have graduated from freshman or sophomore, you can still college, you'll have the credentials of catch up to your classmates by 
an Aimy officer. You'll also have attending Aimy ROTC Camp Chal­the self-confidence and discipline lenge, a paid six-week summer it takes to succeed in college and course in leadership training. beyond. 
ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 

Monday, January 24, 1994 The Observer· TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER  
AT 11-IE.  OBSE.R 1/ER...  NOW, A5 '{OV I<No(.l), VIEWPOINT IS 1t1& OPINION PIIG E Of="" 1ltE 06S£RV£R, 1}\E FORU/VI F~ DISC.lJSSINCn Ttl£ iSSu£!; TliAT bRIP OUR Wa.t-INFOk'MEP, ~LOBALL'/· CON 'SCI OtJS CAMPUS. YOIJ WIU. 13£ ILLVSTRAnNif, Tl-\OS& ISSUES.  
CALVIN AND HOBBES  
0\JR l\'.Jt.'S fiRE VILLI:.\) W111-\ Mt>-.Cii\1'11:.5 Dt.'S\GI-ti:.D TO REI>\JCE WoR¥-~t-tl) \NCR\OA'SE 1.£\'S\JR'C. WE \ifi'.JI:. MORE lEI'S\JRE 111flN MP-..t-:1 \-It>."> E\lt.R \-\P--0.  

-fi1ts 1-s b>LE.AT . WE [Arv P.oA"t>TR.•P IT To THE 'St-~oW ... 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 It will be printed 62 On-the-cob tomorrow treat 
1 Canyon sound 34 Gerald Ford's 63 lisa of s Cross-legged birthplace "Casablanca" 
e~ercises 
64 Wrist movement
36 Banned apple 

9 August forecast 
spray 65 Tale starter 14 Bumbler 
66 Pre-owned IS 50-50 67 Army vehicles 
38 By way of 

39 Vacation locale 16 Mohawk Valley (You're
42 Declare

city welcome!) 43 Congressman 
68 Blue-green 17 Kitchen fat Gingrich 69 Jolly, to the 18 Shea Stadium 44 Solemn Britishnine 
procedures

19 Pressed one's 
45 "--forget"

luck 
DOWN
47 1959 Fiestas

20 Big-eared song 
1 Brilliance 49 Comic Charlotte 2 Sharply animal 
21 Vacation locale 51 Outcome disagree
23 In -(ready for release) 54 Vacation locale 
3 Monmouth Park events25 Sign of summer 60 Have a tab 4--man out 26 Cordage 61 Like gold 
5 Sana native 6 "Back to you" 7 Fetches 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
a Photographer 
Adams 
JAY HOSLER 
BILL WAITERSON 
1\= \T 'Nt.R't: \.lP ib \)~t>, LE\'5\lRE '«O\llt> BE fiS '2A\) P.5 WClRI<.. 

'tllr9tl. 12+ 

DAVE KELLEIT 
''L-tv£ (,J1nt i(£61~ AND 
-;>'"
kATHIE.'S kNEES· 
{,JUL"I:M 
PAci'E.o. 
\ 


V£kttCQ 1111 coon IN Thursday, January 27 Friday & Saturday, January 28&29 at 8pm & 10:30pm at 8pm & 10:30pm Montgomery Theatre Cushing Auditorium 
Admission $1 Admission $2 
46 Violent 55 Hip-shaking in downfalls Kauai 48 Tornado part 56 Actress Moran 50 Orlando 57 Rube attraction sa TV knob 52 Shareholder 
59 Whale of a 53 Sleepwear item movie 54---Hartley 63 Broadway hit of Act 1964-65 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
mishaps 41 Vacation events 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

OF INTEREST 

Just a fraction of what we spend on 
sports can help keep society mshape. 
It'ssoeasyto help your -, five hours of ..·olunt(.'('r time community, when you think per week the standard of about it. giving in Ameri~.:a. 
Millions of people have G• FJ Get involved "ith the helped make five pcn.:cm Jle Ive. l'<IUM:S yo~ c:ar~ about of their incomes and u·~w,_\lJ/IJWJ~If'(UUrtli* and giVe ft\'C. 
DINING HALL 

9 Rock of Hollywood 10 Jazz locale 
11 Muralist Joan 12 Cake decorator 13 Janet Reno's home county 21 Lacquer 22 Pine 
24 Associate 27 Put the finger on 28 Is brilliant 30 Painter's 
31 Russian parliament building 
32 Sea swooper 33 "Broom Hilda" 
creator Myers 34 Whitish gem 35 Military 
command? 37"Wheels" 40 Late-late show hour 


IJ 


SPORTS 


Fencing Coach Mike DeCicco's fencing teams sweep their weekend matches 
Monday, January 24, 1994 
Manhattan makes matters worse for struggling Irish 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN didn't practice Sunday, but he did do some Sports Editor shooting, The Irish shot only 24 percent from the field in Take satisfaction in knowing it was a complete the first half and were down from the start, hit· loss. ling only six field goals before the intermission. 
Notre Dame's 57-50 loss to the Manhattan But poor shooting by the Jaspers kept the game Jaspers on Saturday was as clean as it gets. The the game close at the break, 26-20. Irish were outrebounded, outshot and outplayed. 
A small Christian Brothers college beating the Williams, guard Kieth Kurowski and the big Catholic university. It means something to rebounding of freshman Marcus Hughes kept the somebody. Irish within striking distance in the second half. 
"This is a good win for our program. To come Pete Miller came off the bench to hit two free in here and beat Notre Dame, we are well aware throws for the injured Williams pushing the of their mystique," said Jaspers head coach Fran score to 53-30 with 1:48 left. Fraschilla. But the Irish did not score another point and 
It seems like no one else is, especially the Irish, solid free throw shooting by Manhattan sealed who have dropped three in a row since upsetting the win. Missouri. The Jaspers tripled and doubled teamed 
Notre Dame (5-1 0) will try to avoid a fourth Williams for most of the game, and held Notre straight setback as they host Loyola tonight at Dame's second leading scorer, Ryan Hoover. to 
7:30 at the Joyce ACC. only eight points. 
"It's not easy for anybody the way we are play­It was unfortunate Notre Dame's o!Tense went ing," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "It's a stale, as its defense turned in a solid perfor­tough time but this is a life lesson for our young mance. Manhattan shot only 33 percent for the men. game but enough to hand the Irish another loss. 
"We're struggling right now, but this doesn't MacLeod found a few bright spots, the nine mean we have to struggle the rest of the year. rebounds by Hughes and the spark Kurowski We have to keep our heads in the air and get provided late in the second half. back to work." "We are going to play Marcus a lot more. He 
As if the loss wasn't enough, senior Monty deserves it," said MacLeod. "And I think Keith Williams sprained his wrist on a hard fall to the and Ryan Hoover will see more time in the back­floor and is questionable for tonight's game. He court together. They have played well together." 
Irish hockey fit to be tied, twice 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team didn't lose a game this week­end. 
They didn't win either. 
Instead, they finished their weekend trip to Ohio with iden­tical 3-3 ties at Kent State on Friday and at Ohio State on Saturday. 
The ties moved the Irish to 6­10-4 in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association and 8-14-4 overall. The two points put the Irish into a sixth place tie with Ferris State in the CCHA stand­ings. 
"We wanted to win two games," said Irish coach Ric Schafer. "We played fairly well, but we didn't convert some opportunities." 
In Friday's game against ninth place Kent State, sopho­more forward Brett Bruininks put the Irish on the board first with his 5th goal of the season. 
After Kent tied the score, junior Brent Lamppa scored his seventh goal of the season nine minutes into the second period. 

The Observer/Brian McDonough 
However, Kent managed to· 
Jeremy Coe and the Irish hockey team tied twice this weekend. 
score the next two goals to take advantage of a couple of our 43 seconds into the game on a

a 3-2 lead. Irish sophomore 

mistakes," said Schafer. goal by senior Ron White. Notre
Jamie Ling scored his team 

"Louder is back in good form Dame senior captain Matt
leading 11th goal to tie the 

and we paid attention to our Osiecki tied the score with nine
score with 5:30 left in the 

defense responsibilities." minutes left in the first period
game. 

"We had great goaltending," and the score remained theBoth goalies had outstanding said Ling. "We missed some same until the third period. 
games as Kent sophomore 

opportunities offensively." In the final period, the
goalie Scott Shaw made 30 In Saturday's game, 4,862 Buckeyes scored two early

saves and Notre Dame senior fans came out to the Ohio State goals. but Notre Damegoalie Greg Louder made 31 Fairgrounds to see the last rebounded to tie the score late

saves. 

place Buckeyes battle the Irish. in the period. Sophomore Chris"We dominated the first two 
Ohio State broke out on top
periods only to see them take 

see HOCKEY/ page 13 
Inside SPORTS 

Saint Mary's NFL Belles' basketball over-
The stage is set for comes distractions to 
another Dallas-Buffalo 



Super Bowl, like it or
~ 
dominate Anderson 
at Wayne State. 
not.
University 
see page 14 
see pages 12-13 

see page 14 

