
TI IE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARYS 
Crusade for careers continues on campuses 
By EDWARD IMBUS News Writer 
SMC hosts 
What do you want to do after college? What do you want to 

career

pursue in your life -what are your dreams? Those questions, though highly individualistic, are the 

showcase 
questions that Career and Placement Services helps stu­
By MAUREEN KOBZA dents answer by giving them 

News Writer 

the knowledge needed to find the career that suits them best. 
Over thirty representatives of The three specific goals of the organizations and alumnae will 
office, according to Kitty 
be providing information about Arnold, its director, is to teach graduate schools, volunteering, students the process of looking internships and full time workfor the type of employment they 
opportunities in selected 
want, help the undecided ex­careers at the Showcase ofplicitly identify their interests Careers today in LeMans Halland talents, and when possible, lobby from 3-5 pm. 
link the students to perspective employers. 
• see SERVICES, page 4
During the junior year, stu­dents begin to receive mail 
I his event IS open students offrom "Career-Placement," as it 
any major from both Saint
is commonly called, introducing Mary's and Notre Dame stu­the office and inviting them to dents.
workshops. The workshops fo­Ernst & Young Consulting,cus on topics of usual interest 
Precedent Financial Corp.,
to juniors, such as finding 
Inter-City Teaching Corp. andinternships and interviewing the FBI are some of the compa­techniques. 
nies that will be available to
Placement uploads for the stu­hancing and interviewing to for photocopying costs and to
Career-Placement then en­answer questions. Volunteer
dents onto the national data­searching for jobs beyond on­buy the periodical Planning Job 
courages students to buy an 
agencies for homeless shelters
base for company recruiters to campus interviews and using Choices, a magazine offering
IBWDOS-based program called 
and other organizations will
view. looking for employment elec­information about the job mar­
Resume Expert Plus, a program also be there. 
When a student's senior year tronically on computers. ket and ways to take advantage 
designed to make a individual The Showcase is being held
begins, the opportunities At the beginning of the year, of it, for all registered students. 
and professional resume for its to "introduce students to pro­
Career Placement Services of­seniors are able to register with Vocationally specific majors, 
user. Resume Expert is slightly fessionals who are excited and
fers increase immensely. More Career Placement for on-cam­such as engineering and ac­
different than other programs 
knowledgable about their
workshops and seminars pus interviews for $20. That counting, receive the bulk of
in that it also asks its user to careers and the world beyond
geared towards seniors, but money, according to Arnold, in on-campus interviews since 
give information for a national campus doors," said Christineopen to all students, are offered addition to funds provided by 
registry, which Career 
Derwent, Career Counselor. 
on subjects from resume en-the University, is used to pay see CAREER/ page 4 

True co01passion Group focuses on individuals 
who is also the Executive enters its third stage, it is faced 
requires suffering Promoting the 
Assistant to the President of the with challenges which con­Bricklayer's Association of tribute to what Freedman calls
By ALYSSA MONDELLI sion requires sympathetic 
powerless over America, explained that mem­a "dormant era." 
News Writer knowledge, or the ability to 
bers of Social Democrats, USA, "Although we are passingidentify with what is happening the powerful believe that "ordinary people through a dormant era it (theCompassion requires energy, in someone's life; an uncom­should have a say about their power of Social Democrats,courage, perseverance, and a promising stance in the world; ByJESSICA ZIGMOND lives, the life of the country and USA) will be back and prosper," ferocious, self-transcending love that goes beyond our own News Writer the social issues that surround Freedman said.
love and to be compassionate, concerns to show concern for them." The passing of NAFT A last you must be willing to suffer, the other person; a passion to 
During a time when few As the successors to the year infuriated Socialaccording to Bettina Maria challenge unjust systems and 
Americans are familiar with socialist party of Eugene Debs, Democrats mainly because they Ferraro, CSC, in a lecture at structures; and power, which many of the party platforms Norman Thomas, A. Philip oppose the idea of the UnitedStapleton Lounge yesterday at gives others hope. 
and policies existing in our Randolph and Bayard Rustin, States working with a countrySaint Mary's. Benevolent glancing was country, Joel the members of Social (Mexico) which does not prac­
To begin her lecture another technique Ferraro 
Freedman, Democrats, USA, recognize the tice what Freedman calls "real"Compassion: Presence, used in her lecture to involve International American Federation of Labor democracy."
Prophecy, and Pity," Ferraro her audience. A Buddhist way Affairs and Congress of Industrial This fundamental problem,
invited all those who were of seeking truth, benevolent 
Chairperson Organizations (AFL-CIO) as the however, will not be solvedphysically capable of standing glancing means paying atten­for Social most integrated mass institu­until the Mexican governmentto do so. tion to the person directly in Democrats, tion in the Untied States continues to work at achieving"What does it feel like to front of you and looking for USA, repre­because it brings together a true democracy.
stand? What have you stood good in that person. 
sents a party working people of all races, Although Freedman was
for?" she asked. "Who have On the question of a suffering that promotes creeds and colors. enthusiastic and supportive of you stood with? How does it God, Ferraro's answer was individual The first stage of the group's his group, he understands thatfeel to take a stand?" complex. According to the thought and history began with the work of not all citizens will fully support 
Compassion, she said, Baltimore Catechism and the 
the ability of Randolph and Rustin to end Social Democrats, USA.
requires one to take a stand. recently updated catechism, 
the powerless to negotiate on segregation of the South, which However, he encouraged hisTo show compassion for some­God cannot suffer because it an equal level with the power­eventually led to the historic audience to fmd an ideology or one means to stand by them would diminish his all-powerful ful. Civil Rights March in principle that they do believeand share their suffering. role. 
Freedman, who spoke at Washington, D.C., in March, in, and live that principle daily. 
"People are not naturally Ferarro also pointed out that Saint Mary's last night, helped 1963. "People who want to have ainclined toward compassion compassion is generally seen as define the ideology of "social The ability of the "powerless" say in their lives, a right tobecause we don't want to suf­a female trait, and is consid­democracy" by explaining the to overtake the "powerful" speak on their behalf, will getfer," Ferraro said. "However, ered in some cultures part of purpose of Social Democrats, occurred again in 1981 during that right," he said. 
since Jesus took on the suffer­women's role in society. 
USA, and by illustrating the the second stage when the In this sense, he is again pro­ing of others as the quintessen­Compassion is dangerous, three major stages in the Social Democrats supported a moting what Social Democrats,tial act of redemption, we as said Ferraro, because there is group's history. shipyard electrician in Gdansk, USA, believes in: the importantChristians must be willing to risk involved in taking a stand. 
This left-of-center, anti-com­Poland in the crackdown of the effect of the individual in soci­
share others' suffering as However, it is the role and 
munist group has a tradition of Polish government. ety.
well." responsibility of Christians to supporting democracy in every Today, Lech Walesa, the for­This lecture, sponsored by the Ferraro also discussed the embody Christ, who embodied aspect of life: political, social mer electrician, is better known Political Science Club of Saintfive dimensions of compassion, compassion. By combining and economic. as President of Poland, and the Mary's College, was the first in as defined by author Wendy presence, prophecy, and pity With their deep respect for idea of solidarity continues to a series of political science lec­
Farley. we can show compassion as 
the individual at the core of thrive. tures scheduled for this acade­According to Farley, compas-Jesus showed it. 
their philosophy, Freedman, As Social Democrats, USA, mic year. 
L___________________________________ 



page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, September 29, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Carpe Diem. • • They're numbered 
While tests, papers, parties, and football games seem to be the most integral part of cam­pus life at both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, there is more to both these places. An impor­tant aspect, that tends to be ignored by students just trying to get through the day to day routine, is taking advan­tage of the numerous non-academic, non-ath­letic activities offered around here. 
Leading scientists, poets, artists, authors, musicians, comedians, and activists in the forefront of their fields make themselves available to students on a regular basis. 
Not only do they provide information and insight in too their specialties, they generally seem to know a lot about living life. 
A friend and I made a point last year to do at least one "non-academic" activity on cam­pus each week-and I don't mean dorm par­ties. 
Of course it never happened quite that often-not due to lack of activities available, but only because of time constraints and work loads. When it did happen, we always left the activity with a great feeling. 
We saw plays, written, directed and acted by students, we saw a comedian, we saw a few poets, some inspiring "inspirational" speakers, and we even saw art exhibits at the Snite. 
I learned something from every activity that I participated in, and although I was never tested on the material, it seems to have added significantly to my "liberal arts education." 
After all, isn't that what we're here for? 
Campus visitors have so much to offer stu­dents. They don't just walk off the street and sign up for a lecture slot in just any auditori­um if they are in the mood to captivate an audience. They are recognized in their fields and are usually brought to the campuses by interested organizations and departments. They can often cost the sponsors a pretty penny, but are generally available to the stu­dents at minimal or no cost. 
Not only is listening to these speakers a great way to expand your horizons, it is also a good way to find out what you like and dislike. 
These activities can also be a great study break. And who knows, they might lead to future paper topics. 
Maya Angelou, the poet and novelist, who spoke at President Clinton's inauguration, will be speaking to the Saint Mary's community next week. No one should miss out on this opportunity. 
It is not everyday that such famous speakers visit the campus, but insight can be gained from anyone regardless of fame. It is impor­tant for students to take advantage of these opportunities while they can, because after leaving this haven in four years, these oppor­tunities will be scarce. 
Don't forget, the Indigo Girls are coming next week as well. Think about it. When are you ever again going to be able to see the Indigo Girls and Maya Angelou in the same week? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



News Accent Nancy Dunn Mary Good Laura Ferguson Bevin Kovalik Ethan Hayward Tom Roland 
Sports Viewpoint Thomas Schlidr Michael O'Hara Lab Tech Carolyn Wilkins Shelly Sullivan Production 


The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 29. 
............... .............. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. Prossuro 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Rubber duckies spilled overboard, aid oceanographers 
"We are learning a great deal." 
SAN FRANCISCO  A preliminary study of the duckie  
In this age of computers, lasers  migration was published this  
and orbiting satellites, scientists  month in EOS, official journal of  
are learning a lot from rubber  the American Geophysical Union,  
duckies. Some 29,000 rubber  by Ebbesmeyer and computer  
ducks, turtles and other bathtub  modeler W. James Ingraham Jr.  
toys spilled overboard 10 months  of the National Marine Fisheries  
ago in the North Pacific when a  Service in Seattle. They also ana­ 
freighter carrying the cargo on its  lyzed an earlier example of inad­ 
deck was hit by a storm. So far,  vertent oceanographic science  
400 of the bobbing toys have been  \---''-\. ,,..//\<\  when 61,000 Nike shoes fell off a  
found along 500 miles of Alaskan shoreline, and that is helping .researchers trace wind and ocean  TRAJECTORY Pacttic h;....,ji.Aiil"aiiil''"'_.. ··. Ocean,/ ' ,/ /  , / ·  ship in 1990 and floated toward the West Coast. Data from the two spills, Ebbesmeyer said, give  
currents. "This is serious sci­ '----'--=-~---'-olll;;;;uo.s"";:;;w:;o.s.n:::-Ft:..........,==:hronicle==·=·,.:+.'A,  useful information to oceanogra­ 

ence," said Curtis Ebbesmeyer, an oceanographer at phers in predicting where other floating debris will go Evans-Hamilton Inc., a consulting company in Seattle.. after spills. 
Hill denied justifiable homicide defense 

PENSACOLA 
A federal judge ruled Wednesday that a man accused of killing an abortion doctor and his escort cannot claim justifiable homicide as a defense. But U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson said he could change his mind if Paul Hill can successfully argue why he should be allowed to use the so-called necessity defense, which excuses a crime committed to prevent a greater harm. Hill, a former min­ister, is charged with violating federal clinic protection and firearms laws in the July 29 slayings of Dr. John B. Britton and retired Air Force Lt. Col. James H. Barrett outside a Pensacola clinic. Barrett's wife, June, was wounded in the shooting. Vinson said he granted the prosecutors motion to disallow Hill's justifiable homicide defense because Hill failed to file any papers with the court to fight off the motion. Hill, who has no legal train­ing, is defending himself. The trial is set to begin Monday. Vinson gave Hill a series of legal tips on how to argue that he meets the four criteria that are needed before a necessity defense can be allowed: present evi­dence that he exhausted all available legal alternatives; present evidence that he was choosing the lesser of two evils; present evidence that he was acting to prevent imminent harm; and present evidence that he was rea­sonably anticipating a causal relation between the defen­dant's action and the harm to be avoided. Hill, 40, also faces trial Jan. 30 in state court on charges of murder, attempted murder and shooting into an occupied vehicle. He is seeking to represent himself in that case as well. The state has said it will seek the death penalty. 

habit 

KETTERING 
Michael Fay, the teen-ager flogged in Singapore for vandalizing cars, has gone into drug rehab for a butane­sniffing habit, his stepmother said Wednesday. Jan Fay said her 19-year-old stepson was admitted to the Hazelden clinic after she and his father, George Fay, learned he had been inhaling the gas. Fay told her he was inhaling butane because it made him forget what happened in Singapore. Fay received four lashes with a rattan cane and spent 83 days in a Singapore prison after being accused of spray-painting cars. Fay denied the allegation and said police coerced a false confession from him. Fay was released from prison and returned to his father's home June 22. On Sept. 2, Fay was treated at a hospital after his hands and face were burned. Mrs. Fay said he told her he and some friends had been working on a car when someone struck a match and there was a flash. But a few days later she found about a dozen cans of butane in his room, she said. She and her husband confronted him. "Finally, it all came out," Ms. Fay said. She said he admitted he had inhaled butane in Singapore, and was sniffing butane when he was burned Sept. 2. He agreed to get treatment. 
Robb returns North's fire on military record WASHINGTON 
Standing in the shadow of the Marine Corps headquarters, Sen. Charles S. Robb said Wednesday that GOP rival Oliver North's criticism of his military service was another example of North's trouble with the truth. Robb called an afternoon news conference to take issue with North's characterization of the senator as an 


"8th and I" Marine -a reference to the address of the corps headquarters in Washington. "He was suggesting that I was somehow seeking an assignment other than combat duty or that my combat record was somehow unworthy," Robb said. It was during Robb's service at the Washington post that he served as a White House social aide and began dating Lynda Byrd Johnson, the daughter of then President Johnson and now Robb's wife. The senator said he was offered a chance to avoid any Vietnam duty but that he "made it very clear that I want­ed to serve" and said he requested assignment to ground forces. During 13 months in Vietnam, he said he was a rifle company commander for five months. For the other eight months, Robb served as an operations officer at the 1st Marine Division headquarters in Vietnam. Robb also said that while in Vietnam he was told that intelligence officers were concerned that he might be a kidnapping target because of his relationship to Johnson's daughter. He said additional troops were sent to his unit as a secu­rity force but that he asked for them to be withdrawn. 
Strike effects slow in spreading to plants 
DETROIT 
General Motors Corp. slowed the spreading effects of 
a strike at a key parts-making complex Wednesday by 
changing the mix of cars and trucks it builds. By evening, 
parts shortages caused by the walkout by 11,500 work­
ers at the Buick City complex in Flint had forced two 
other GM plants to shut down. The Buick City complex 
assembles Buick Park Avenue and LeSabre models and 
Oldsmobile Eighty-Eights. But it also makes V-6 engines 
and transmission and suspension parts that go into other 
cars and trucks. If the strike continues more than a week 
or so, shortages of those components could shut down 
most of GM's North American operations and force the 
layoff of hundreds of thousands of workers. About 6,550 
workers at two assembly plants in Lansing, 50 miles 
southwest of Flint, were laid off late Tuesday. They ran 
out of parts for Buick Skylark, Oldsmobile Achieva and 
Pontiac Grand Am models. Some other plants kept their 
assembly lines moving by changing the mix of cars and 
trucks to models that didn't need parts from the Flint 
complex. "They can continue running for some time by 
going to different transmission options or engine 
options," GM spokesman John Shea said. 
Graphics Heather Gibson Tara Grieshop 
Chris Mullins 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Pr<ss. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta 83 53 Dallas 97 63 New Orleans 90 59 Baltimore 74 57 Denver 89 52 New York 72 60 Boston 75 60 Los Angeles 90 75 Philadelphia 74 60 Chicago 65 50 Miami 80 71 Phoenix 103 74 Columbus 67 53 Minneapolis 63 47 St. Louis 75 54 Thursday, September 29, 1994 

Fil01 has the power to open closed 01inds 
By NICOLE NIELSEN News Writer 
Ron Nyswaner. Oscar-win­ning screenwriter of the movie, Philadelphia, said his movie was meant to "bring people with prejudices into the the­ater, but not make them feel like fools .. " "The goal". said Nyswaner, "is to open their minds." 
Nyswaner, through this rela­tionship, tried to show that people with prejudices will not be completely converted, but their minds will gradually be opened. 
In a discussion of the movie and the issues surrounding it last evening, Nyswaner addressed the theme of the film, criticisms of the film, and the impact that the film has had on society's feelings toward homosexuals. 
According to Nyswaner. the ultimate theme of Philadelphia is "how we treat people who are different from us." Nyswaner said that one way that this theme was conveyed was through the personal rela­tionships between the charac­ters, specifically, between the characters played by Tom Hanks and Denzel Washington. 
Nyswaner said that Philadelphia received much criticism with regards to the realism of the positive treat­ment of the Tom Hanks charac­ter by his family. In response to this criticism, Nysmaner said that families of gay people are too often portrayed in a nega­tive manner. "There are many people in America who love their gay children," Nyswaner said. 
Nyswaner said that the movie has played a great role in changing social beliefs of soci­ety. He told the audience about a gay man whose parents had not spoken to him in eight years, and after viewing Philadelphia, his parents called him. The movie has not only strengthened relationships in families with homosexual chil­dren, Nyswaner said that it has also improved self-confidence among homosexuals. 
Responding to the incredible success of the movie, Nyswaner said, "I was not quite prepared for the place that it seems to have taken in culture" 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

(_______s_U_N_D_A_Y~rO_C_T_O_B_E_R_2______) • NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY • • TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED • • $14.00 PER PERSON • 
r~  r~  r~  
BUS DEPARTS  RETURN  
LIBRARY CIRCLE  RIDE  TO CAMPI)}~.  
10:30  11:00  12:3G  
11:30  12:00  1:30  
12:30  1:00  2:30  
1:30  2:00  3:30  
2:30  3:00  4:30  


REGISTER & PAY IN ADVANCE SIGN UP BY 5:00PM ON THURSDAY, SEPT. 29 MAXIMUM NUMBER PER RIDE IS 10 
FOR MORE INFO CALLRECSPORTSAT631-6100 
On the air 

DJ's Chad Shaffler and Ryan Duncan of WVFI contemplate the playlist for their radio show. 


CIA officers reprimanded 
By ROBERT BURNS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Eleven senior CIA officers have been reprimanded for fail­ing to push hard enough to uncover Aldrich Ames' spying for Moscow, but no agency offi­cials will be demoted or fired, CIA Director R. James Woolsey said today. 
l 
In remarks to reporters at CIA headquarters in nearby Langley, Va., Woolsey named only one of the 11. He is Ted Price, head of the CIA's clan­destine service, the elite core of American intelligence. The oth­ers' identities must remain 

secret. he said, because of their involvement in clandestine operations. 
Woolsey said Ames' betrayal of U.S. intelligence secrets between 1985 and 1993 led to the deaths of one dozen U.S.­paid agents and the compro­mising of "approximately three dozen" U.S. clandestine opera­tions, including double agent operations that Ames learned about by tapping into a CIA computer at headquarters. 
"The consequences have been horrid," Woolsey said. At the heart of the failure to unmask Ames, Woolsey said, was a "serious and sustained inattention" to signs -some 
Mom, Dad, Terry, Todd, Tim, Peggy, and Michelle. 
University of Notre Dame 


Senior Class "IRISH" hats for sale in the ND dining halls tonight and tomorrow. Only $12. 
"like a bright billboard" -of Ames' treachery. 
Price and three other senior officers still on the CIA payroll have been issued letters of rep­rimand. They will not be given promotions or awards for two to five years, but Price will remain in his post, Woolsey said. "I fmd him a man of great ability," Woolsey said of Price. 
Four senior officers were issued what Woolsey called more serious letters of repri­mand which he said normally accompany requests for early retirement or outright dis­missal. But three already have retired and the fourth is due to begin retirement . 
• CAMPUS BRIEF 
Lu lecture cancelled 
Friday's scheduled lecture by Li Lu, one of the central figures of China's 1989 democracy demonstrations in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, has been canceled. The lecture, which was to have taken place at 3 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center is expected to be rescheduled for a later date. 
Lu, one of two deputies to the head of the student demonstra­tions in Tiananmen Square, became a symbol of their cause in his role as official press spokesman for the Democratic Reform Movement. .He escaped the massacre that ended the Tiananmen demonstrations­and which, he maintains, resulted in thousands of deaths-and made his way to the U.S., where he is now a law student and MBA candidate at 


Youth 
In Asia 


Tokyo $889* Taipei $839* Seoul $819* Hong Kong $1015* Bangkok $1069* Katllmandu $1559* 
Fara arc round trip from Chicago O'Hare. Rc· strictIons apply,ta><csarc notlncfuded and fares arc subJect to change. Call forothcrwortdwldc destinations. 

Council Travel 
11.53 H. Dearborn Chicago, IL 60610 

(312) 951-0585 
Call for a FREE Student Travels magazine! 

,...------------------------­
-~ 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, September 29, 1994 
Dame for on-campus inter­views.
SMC services ease job hunt Career 
Career Placement also offers 
ByMYRA MALONEY 

Assistanr Sainr Mary's Editor 
Education and support of stu­dents are the two functions of the career planning network within the Counseling and Career Development Center, according to Dr. Mary DePauw, Director of the Center and a licensed psychologist. "We don't find jobs for stu­dents, but we do support them and show them how to go about searching for possible career placement opportunities and post graduate study," said DePauw. 
The primary services offered by the network consist of indi­vidual counseling, some drop-in assistance and various methods of outreach. The latter include classroom presentations, career fairs and the "Pathfinder," a monthly newsletter featuring upcoming events which deal with career planning. 

"We have worked hard over the past decade to adapt our services to the changing reali­ties in the job market. One example of this occurred three years ago when we changed our senior career manual to a career workbook because we recognized that current stu­dents need to take more of a step by step approach with the job-search process," said DePauw. 
Among the various facilities offered to all students is the Career Resource Room in LeMans Hall. The collection contains informative material on careers, graduate study, summer jobs, internships, vol­unteer work, job hunting and the career and life planning process, according to the Center brochure. 
In addition, students also have access to three computer­ized programs: SIGI Plus, Alumnae Resource Network and Graduate School.Selector. Career planning is the purpose of SIGI Plus and focuses on assessing skills and work val­ues, gathering information on career fields and making career decisions. 
The Alumnae Resource Network (ARN) provides exten­sive career data on Saint Mary's alumnae and also helps students make personal career choices by displaying data as well as offering direct contact with participatory SMC gradu­ates. 
"ARN is a good example of people helping people. Few of us realize the potential of the hidden job market and this pro­gram opens up what otherwise would be concealed," said DePauw. "The Alumnae Resource Network is a tremen­dous asset for Saint Mary's stu­dents, although the challenge is in encouraging them to engage in the career development process, invest in their future and put time into defining their goals." 
Graduate School Selector, the third computerized program, features over 800 graduate school profiles and nearly 13,000 study programs in the 

u.s. ­
"A student's education comes first. It is through her acade­mics that she will develop essential career skills and our services can help her under­stand where she will use those individual counseling for stu­skills, "said DePauw. continued from page 1 


Although DePauw stresses dents by appointment to help that it is never too late to employers can more readily them with more specific ques­explore the career planning plan for openings in those posi­tions they may have. Students 
tions, and can then send re­doubting their initial career
network, she does believe that all students, especially if they cruiters to Notre Dame to con­choices, and debating whether 
duct the interviews. to pursue other job fields or
are undecided in choosing a 
major, should begin research­By no means, however, not, frequently use the option, ing even as early as their fresh­should that discourage students said Arnold. About one third of man year and in doing so will in other fields. According to students who use the Career greatly reduce stress at gradu­Arnold, "people in more multi­Placement office change their 
ation. faceted majors will fit into a va­career goals in the course of "I don't like to see the student riety of fields. We tell these the year. 
who buries her head in the people that they are in fact Graduate educational options sand like an ostrich freshman marketable and give them mar­are also addressed through a year only to bring it out four ketable facts of their major," panel of speakers in an event years later," she continued. for instance, what sorts of jobs significantly larger than the The Career Resource Room is other graduates in their major others. The speakers, who are have taken. usually graduates of Notre
accessible Monday-Friday from 
8 a.m., to 5 p.m. and Monday­The best advice for such stu­Dame and admissions officers Wednesday evenings from 5:30 dents, like those in liberal arts of various universities, help to 8:30. Computer use is on a fields, are to mail resumes to students make informed deci­first come-first serve basis various companies for jobs they sions of whether graduate 
school is in their interest. 

unless students choose to make are interested in. Companies 
an appointment. Individual are usually unable to plan what For other students, post­career counseling is also avail­positions will be opening in graduate volunteering or other able by appointment. those fields in time for accept­service work is the most attrac­
ing invitations from Notre tive. 
S '"'y R A C U S E A B R 0 A D 
Looking for a good exchange rate to study abroad next semester? 


Syracuse University sponsors study abroad sites In Florence, Italy London, England Harare, Zimbabwe 
Madrid, Spain  Strasbourg, France  
SU credit •  Reid trips/Traveling seminars •  Internships • Study for a semester, year or summer  
·  Courses taught in English and in host country language  
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY  

DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD •119 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472. 315-443-3471 

~-~--­
---.­

Thursday, September 29, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 



Fear paralyzing Rwandans Students participate 
By ANGUS SHAW something has obviously hap­gone beyond isolated incidents 1
in 01edical "caDlps" 
Associated Press pened," said Maj. Jean-Guy embellished by rumor. Plante, the U.N. military "We're getting numerous 
By DOUGLAS METZ something relevant to our
KIGALI spokesman in Kigali. "I think it reports of the same thing, every 
News Writer future." 
j
The United Nations called off comes from being scared." one different and you can bet Anderst was especially enthu­its program to return thou­The U.N. High Commissioner the last one has 50 dead," said With the recent onset of cold siastic about the merits of the 
sands of refugees to their for Refugees last week accused Maj. Robert Lidstone, a U.N. 
weather, many students are SMART program. In additionhomes in Rwanda on troops of Rwanda's new Tutsi­operations officer. 
already reminiscing about sum­to meeting people from around 1 Wednesday, as U.N. investiga­led government of carrying out When Tutsi-led rebels seized mer days when the air was the country, Anderst appreciat­tors began looking into allega­reprisal killings against Hutus, power in July, more than a mil­warm and the realm of acade­ed that he was able to "learntions of revenge killings by the the majority ethnic group in lion Hutus fled to neighboring 
mics was momentarily left research techniques that [he]
new government's army. Rwanda. The accusation exac­countries, fearing retribution behind for summer jobs such as otherwise wouldn't haveOfficials said they would also erbated fears in Rwanda, for the massacres of Tutsis. 
lifeguards, deli workers or learned. I got a chance to seeinvestigate how much the where 500,000 people -most­About 400,000 other Hutus espresso jockeys. Such was not what a career in researchUnited Nations' own refugee ly minority Tutsis -were killed took refuge in southwest the case for four Notre Dame involved."
agency helped create a new cli­in ethnic massacres earlier this Rwanda in a safe zone set up students involved in an inten­Anderst plans on investigat­mate of fear in Rwanda. year. by French troops. 
sive summer medical program. ing this area further beforeThe United Nations suspend­Plante said 20 investigators U.N. officials have tried to Brian Dewan, Elise Metzler deciding whether or not it ised convoys that were to have would go to Rwanda to meet convince the refugees it is safe and James Anderst were something he would like to con­taken up to 4,000 refugees a with U.N. human rights moni­to return home. But they said among almost one hundred col­tinue with after graduation.
day, mostly Hutus, from camps tors about allegations that the this week that more refugees 
lege undergraduates to be "Regardless," said Anderst,
in southwest Rwanda back to Tutsi-led Rwandan Patriotic are once again leaving Rwanda selected from throughout the "it's a good taste of what atheir homes in other parts of Force killed hundreds of Hutus than are going back. 
United States to participate in research career involves."
the country. Officials said there after seizing power in July. An estimated 3,700 refugees 
the Summer Medical and Stephanie Carson, a senior 
were not enough people willing The RPF has denied the alle­have fled to Burundi, Rwanda's 
Research Training (SMART) English/Pre-Professional major, to go in the convoys. gations and said it would coop­southern neighbor, since Program at Baylor College of spent six weeks at Baylor"We had many indications erate with the investigators. Monday, and U.N. officials and Medicine in Houston. involved in a separate program.
people were waiting for trans­U.N. military commanders in Western journalists reported a There were in all some 950 the Honors Pre-Medical 
port and we thought we Rwanda say they are skeptical new exodus of Hutus heading 
applicants for the program Academy. This program is
wouldn't be able to cope, but that vengeance killings have west into Zaire. 
throughout the nation. Faculty designed to increase minority of Baylor College served as representation in medicine. mentors and supervisors for Interested in similar pro­
7 stands for its original 7-ounce bottle and "Up" refers to its bubbly nature. the program. grams since she was a fresh­Ill Dewan, who has participated man, Carson decided to give it .( f-in similar programs through a go this summer, working with 
the Research University of a pediatric neurologist. 
Ill 

Texas found the program to be She spent her mornings with E 
especially worthwhile, giving Baylor physicians and took aca­
[ m him a good introduction to the demic enrichment courses at ), medical profession. "I learned Rice University in the after­.( [J the most from the seminar noon, concentrating in biologi­
j.l lunches given by the Baylor cal sciences and communica­
m 

professors." These seminars tions.u covered a wide variety of areas, "I got to see what medicine
Ill 

l including molecular genetics was really like in campus," said 0 research. Carson. In addition to making
E 

Metzler, a Chemistry major rounds with the physician,
ID 

from Columbia, Mo., noticed Carson was also involved in [ • and advertisement for the pro­meetings and many other
Ill 

> gram outside the Pre­responsibilities of a physician 
OJ 

Professional office. "It looked outside the operating room. l like a good opportunity. I More than 3 7 5 African­
Ill 

j.l learned a lot from the program American, Mexican-American,
m 

[which] involved lab oriented mainland Puerto Rican and seminars as well as evening Native American students programs." applied for the 125 positions. 
As a participant of the pro­Admission was based on acade­gram, Metzler was able to vol­mic achievement and interest unteer at the Texas Children's in a medical career. Hospital where she made clini­According to Dr. Demetrius cal rounds with the physicians. Pearson, program director of She is planning to go to medical the Honors Pre-Medical
• 
m school after graduating from Academy, participating stu­
ll 

Notre Dame. "I'd really like to dents will continue to receive
0 

pursue studying gene thera­guidance during the medical Ill py...l think that it's really school admissions process. E 
rn 
J 
' 
[ 
0 

•
E 
Ill 


cflasyli,~trili
_j 
ll Ill 
j.l 

Super Saver Prices on Roses
ID .( 


Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, 
j.l 


Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
J 

Clocktower Square Ill 
51400 31 North
.0 


(219)277-1291
South Bend, IN 46637
ID 
_j 
2.99
' 
.0 

12 cans ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

rn •
•ll •
Ill 

m • 
u •
• 
~ • 
m • 
[ •
•
OJ 
·c:: 

··­
0 • •
•
Ul 

m • 
~ • 
0. • 
J •• ). •• • 
• 
~ a I. Save on the original Un-Cola as well as Diet 7 -Up, •
•
Ul Cherry 7 -Up and Diet Cherry 7 -Up. 
• 
'tl • 
a 
•
~ 
c: 
:J 

II •• 
,~n~-i.. ;,~  ~  
c  ~~  
~  

SATURDAY OCTOBERS !O:OOAM STEPAN CENTER 
T • SIDRTS TO ALL F1NISHERS 
• REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE AND $6.00 DAY OF RACE
•
• STUDENT ANDSTAFFDMSIONS 
·~~·· 

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
J: :{fififltitJ!'i/JiifBINF() Cillfi#~Pilili'~';iT 63i~iiHJ 
~ ...................................•....................................................••.......••.. • 

perform on Tues.• Oet. 4 at 7:00 P.M. in the LaFortune Ballroom 
The dance troupe is directed by Krithika Rajagopalan. Krithika has 
been an ardent student of Natyakalalayam., a classical dance style of 
India, since the age of six. She performed by special invitation in 
Expo'f. lin Canada. She also performed in the Southeast Asian Arts 
Festival in Kualalampur. She has been a member of cultural 
delegations to the old U.S.S.R. She has performed all over the world 
and everywhere she goes she has been a hit. 
Press Comments:

E~RESS 
Her performance wa5 5heer magic, bri5tling with complicated foot and a 5uperb mime ... Morning Star, London
Your Football Weekend Outlet 
She too~ the audience by 5torm ... her lively recital wa5 mar~ed by a 
Dooley Room •Lafortune Student Center •6 31-8128 
5en5e of rhythm, fluidity and expre55ivene55 at it5 perfected be5t Chicago Tribune 
Hours: 
Krithika danced her way into the heart5 of art lover5 ... the 5culptureque po5e5 bore evidence of her depth of under5tanding of
Friday, 12:00 -9:00pm 
Bharata Natyam ... Indian Express, New Delhi
Saturday, 8:00am -9:00 pm 
Rhythm i5 her forte and 5he ~evelled in it. Each dance wa5 fa5cinatmg 
and brought &live the anc1ent temple 5culpture5 of India ... La Geneva, Switzerland
Sunday,l 0:00 am -3:00 pm 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
ByMATTIHUUHTANEN Associated Press 
TURKU 

Rescuers fought rough seas and howling winds today to search for survivors of an Estonian ferry that capsized and sank with nearly 1,000 people aboard. More than 800 were missing and feared dead. 
About 60 to 126 people had been rescued from the 54­degree water hours after the ferry Estonia sank overnight in the Baltic Sea, Swedish and Finnish authorities said. They said rescue workers found bod­ies, but declined to say how many. Earlier, officials said at least 100 had been rescued, but an exact count was made diffi­cult by the number of rescue workers involved. 
The sinking between Tallinn, Estonia, and the ship's destina­tion, Stockholm, was one of the worst sea disasters in recent years. 
Estonian authorities said the ferry's final radio message just after midnight was: "We are sinking! ... The engines have stopped!" 
There was no immediate offi­cial explanation of what caused the 515-foot vessel to capsize. 
The Swedish news agency TT said two Swedish inspectors criticized the vessel's seawor­thiness shortly before it set out from Tallinn on Tuesday night. The inspectors found problems with seals on front-loading doors that are designed to keep water out during rough seas, TT said. 
One survivor, who identified himself as Henrik Sillaste, told 964 people were on board ­
The Associated Press he saw 776 passengers and 188 crew 

water hlaking through an outer members. The total, based on a 

cargo door that he believed was preliminary passenger list, was 

defective. Sillaste, who said he 

higher than authorities' initial was a ship's engineer from report of 867 people on the Estonia, said water quickly 
ship.
built up in the hull and caused 

Carl Gustaf Aakerhielm, a the ship to list. spokesman for the ferry's
Raimo Tiilikainen, a Finnish owner, Estlines, said 902 peo­

Coast Guard spokesman, said ple were on board. He said only 

Thursday, September 29, 1994 






Cisneros' integrity questioned 
By SONYA ROSS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Housing Secretary Henry Cisneros said today he is confi­dent that federal reviewers will find "I was forthright at every step" in explaining to the FBI his financial support for a for­mer girlfriend. 
Justice Department investiga­tors are trying to determine whether Cisneros, during a background check for his Cabinet nomination, misled FBI agents who questioned him about money he'd given to Linda Medlar. 
"The review that is underway will determine in the final analysis that I was forthright at every step," Cisneros said. "I have no fear that any new information is there that hasn't been borne out." 
Medlar's attorneys, Floyd Holder and Bruce Magness, were in court and unavailable for comment today. 
Cisneros' attorney, Cono Namorato, declined to comment on Medlar's lawsuit but said Cisneros intends to cooperate fully with the Justice investiga­tion. Seagal Wheatley, Cisneros' lawyer in San Antonio, said Tuesday he is certain there is no evidence that Cisneros mis­led FBI agents. 
Medlar, a former political aide who lives in Lubbock, Texas, is suing Cisneros for $256,000, claiming he reneged on an agreement to pay her $4,000 a month in compensa-

tion after their extramarital there." affair became public in 1988. Ms. Medlar contends that 
Cisneros denies having an Cisneros paid her about agreement. He says he sought $200,000, a figure Cisneros has jobs for Medlar and gave her not disputed. On the tapes, he money out of compassion. tells Ms. Medlar he believes the 
The 30-day federal inquiry FBI was aware of $60,000 in centers on taped conversations payments. between Cisneros and Medlar, Wheatley said Cisneros has in which they fretted over· been uncertain of the precise whether his nomination as sec­amount he paid Ms. Medlar retary of housing and urban because he didn't keep accu­development would be derailed rate records. once FBI agents learned of the payments. 
If the review turns up any 

Recycle the
"specific and credible allega­tions" of criminal wrongdoing, Attorney General Janet Reno 
Obse~ve~

would open a 90-day prelimi­nary inquiry to determine whether she should seek 
appointment of an independent counsel. The inquiry began shortly 

Multicultural Fall Festival: October 2-7. 1994
after the syndicated television program "Inside Edition" aired 

sponsored by
segments of the tapes on Sept. 

!Multicultural 'AJ&utivr CDIUidi
12. 
Cisneros said he did not try to mislead anyone about Medlar. "The decision makers had in their possession, from myself and other sources, all of the information that these tapes and a review of the facts later will bear out," he said. 


''I'm not worried about any 

Come and see the 
further entanglements of any kind that are not, generally at least, known at this point," Cisneros said. "People will get 


~ARAUA NAurAin 
into details, of course, and that's embarrassing and diffi­cult. I'm not proud of every hour of my life. But it's out 

(INDIAN) DANCE UJlOUPE 
60 survivors had been found. 
Despite the conflicting num­bers, the total number of deaths seemed certain to be around 800. Hopes for finding anyone else alive were dim because of the difficulty of sur­viving any longer than minutes in cold water. 
"We saw about 40 life rafts. Unfortunately. most of them were empty." said Stefan Cameros, pilot of a Swedish rescue helicopter. He said waves in the area were up to 20 feet high. 
The waves and winds topping 56 mph hindered rescue opera­tions about 25 miles from the Finnish island of Uto off the southwestern coast. 
More than 500 of the passen­gers reportedly were Swedes and at least 150 were Estonians. Among them were 52 elderly people from· Norrkoping. a town in central Sweden. 
Some news reports said the ship sank in five minutes, while others put the time at closer to 30 minutes. 
"A vessel of this size should have no problem in these winds," maritime inspector Esa Saari said in the Finnish port of Turku, the base for rescue efforts. 
Some officials speculated that trucks and cars on board may have broken loose in the storm and that their shifting weight caused the capsize. A spokesman for the ship's own­ers told Estonian radio that authorities believed both engines stopped simultaneous­ly, leaving the ferry vulnerable to the wind and waves. 
Ships and helicopters from Finland and Sweden were at the scene. Estonian authorities were sending rescue crews. At least five other passenger fer­ries hurried to the scene. 
"I woke up as the ship was heavily tilted to the left," one of the survivors, Neeme Kaik, told radio station KUKU in Estonia. 

SPECIAL NEEDS: 3 poor parishes have requested men; 2 have requested bi-lingual (Span.) persons; mature women needed to serve with homeless families. 
"The nzission ofthe Church is to evangelize." 
-Pope Paul VI 


Ill· 
DID YOU EVER DREAM OF BEING A~~ MISSIONARY? IT'S POSSIBLE! 
7 •Catholic Evangelizing Ministries 
• Open to couples, singles and religious 
• Serve for a year or more among the poor/homeless in NY area 
• Ongoing training & ministry support 
• Community living 
2704 Schurz Avenue Throgs Neck, Bronx. NY 10465

LA~P 
(718)409-5062 
Tom & Lyn Scheuring, Ph.D.s. D~rectors

MINISTRIES 
Marybelh & Ed Greene, Assoc. Directors 

"The Spirit ofthe Lord is upon me...to bring GOOD NEWS to the POOR..."(Lk 4: 19) 
1(>() f 0(' ... -1,.,.. ·~ ' 
Thursday, September 29, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 




Yeltsin wants cooperation not confrontation 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Russian President Boris Yeltsin kept up the spirit of good will today, declaring, "We will never fight the United 
States," as he and President Clinton mapped ways to guard Russia's nuclear mate­rial and to 


pump up the Bill Clinton country's economy. 
Several announcements were due today on improving nuclear storage facilities and training Russians to fend off nuclear smugglers. American investors, meanwhile, will be getting more protection of their capital. with the aim of doubling their stake in Russia's economy from $1 billion to $2 billion. 
Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman Georgy Karasin exulted Tuesday night that Russia and the United States had completed the transition "from the times of Cold War to real practical partnership." 
Before capping the two-day summit with a joint East Room news conference, Clinton and Yeltsin today toured a Library of Congress exhibit that high­lights the early influence of the Russian church on Alaska. 
'As we remember the ties between Russia and America of two centuries ago, let us wel­come our new ties and new spirit of cooperation in the cen­tury of partnership that lies ahead," Clinton said. 
In a booming voice, Yeltsin countered critics in his country who he said believe "an era of confrontation will return" between the United States and Russia. "I would like to tell you that we never fought the United States and I believe I can say as president of Russia that we will never fight the United States in the future. 
"Instead, we will focus on building a world of decency and welfare," he said, drawing loud applause. 
The war in Bosnia is one example of the growing coordi­nation between the Clinton administration, which is pledged to lifting an arms embargo on the Muslim-led government, and Russia, which has historic ties to the Serbs. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, summing up more than two hours of talks Monday between Clinton and Yeltsin, and parallel meetings among their senior advisers, said the United States would ask the 
U.N. Security Council around Nov. 1 to lift the embargo. And he said Russia would try to per­suade Serbia to recognize Bosnia. 
Christopher said Bosnian Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic came to him last Friday and suggested a six-month delay in the flow of arms. 
In the interim, Christopher said, the United States hoped Bosnian Serbs would reverse their rejection of a peace plan to end the 2 1/2-year war in the former Yugoslav republic. 
Karasin, briefing reporters separately, said Christopher, Russian Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev and the for­eign ministers of Britain, France and Germany would meet in New York to work on a settlement. "The situation is more favorable for positive approaches," Karasin said. 

The summit, the third full­dress meeting and flfth overall in 20 months, was scripted to emphasize and accelerate Russia's conversion from com­munism to capitalism. 
The administration pledged $525 million in financing and political risk insurance for investments in Russia, leading Commerce Secretary Ron Brown to say the meeting "can truly be called the trade and investment summit." 
Additional agreements this week are expected to boost the investment total to $1 billion. 
Clinton tried to persuade Yeltsin to stop sales of sub­marines, missile technology, air armaments and other equip­ment to Iran, which is accused by Washington of sponsoring terrorism. 
Yeltsin resisted when Clinton raised the point in the past, but Christopher said "there's a res­olution in sight on this very dif­ficult issue." 
He said Clinton and Yeltsin would continue their discus­sion, but he declined to say how a compromise might be struck. Karasin said he was not aware of any pending decision to restrict military sales to Iran, which have netted Moscow an estimated $1 billion. 
"Our nations are growing closer together, replacing sus­picion and fear with trust and cooperation," Clinton said, wel­coming_ Yeltsin to the White House with a handshake and a hug. 
The burly Russian president said they would prove skeptics wrong and make "great progress" in two days of discus­sions. "It is fair to say that the United States is a strong part­ner and not an easy one to deal with, just like Russia," he said. 
In search of informality, Clinton and Yeltsin moved their talks from the Oval Office to an outdoor garden patio. Accompanied only by note-tak­ers, they sat in wrought-iron chairs and talked for more than two hours across a glass-topped table. Defense and foreign min­isters of the two countries met separately in the Cabinet and Roosevelt rooms. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
PROBLEMS OF THE HEART 
Heart disease continues to be a major cause of death, especially in the United States. Yet, progress has been made in our ability to effectively treat it, especially through better ways of performing open-heart surgery. Our ability to open-up the body and to keep the heart going has improved. Because of early diagnosis and proper treatment, those who have heart disease may be able to live, and live more freely. 
There is a different kind of heart problem that is probably more prevalent than any other. It has been described as a hardness of heart. Symptoms include self-interested ambition, abuse of others, and ignoring people in need. This hardness of heart is called sin. This heart problem called sin usually recurs throughout a person's life. It is often frustrating and, if left untreated, it is deadly. The 
one tried and true treatment for this problem of the heart is 
honesty, given often and in large doses. Honesty that is followed 
by a commitment to love others and self usually lead a person to 
live more freely. 
It is easy for us to say that in order to live happy and generous lives we must be honest. It is difficult to truly be honest. Admitting that we have hurt somebody and actually saying "I'm sorry'' is usually not done without some pain. There are various ways to be honest with ourselves and with others. It seems to me that all of It is the Faith of the Church that this sacrament is God's way of opening our hearts in order to heal them. It is God's way of removing the obstacles that cause our hearts to be so hard. It is God's way ofallowing us to live more freely. It's God's way of helping us to be the kind of people we really want to be, the kind of people God is calling us to be. In short, we believe that God calls us to be responsible, happy, and generous. 
For various reasons, many people celebrate the sacrament of Reconciliation here at Notre Dame. At the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, opportunities for confession and reconciliation are at 
11:15 am and 5:00pm Monday through Friday, and at 7:00pm Monday through Thursday. 
Ifyou're like me, deep within your heart you realize that sometimes there are problems. Ifyou're like me you realize that 
there is a difference between the way you are and the way,you 
really want to be. Let us not leave these problems of the heart 
untreated. Let us accept God's invitation to live happy and 
generous lives. 
Bob Dowd, C.S. C. 


them require concrete steps. TWENTY-SEVENTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
One concrete method which is offered by the Catholic Church is 
the sacrament of Reconciliation, also known as the sacrament of Sat. Oct. 1 5:00p.m. Rev. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. 
Penance and Confession. 
Sun. Oct. 2 8:00a.m. Rev. George Wiskerschen, C.S.C 
10:00 a.m. Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C 
The Catholic Church teaches that speaking honestly and actually 11:45 a.m. Rev. Richard A. Warner, C.S.C 
saying ''I'm sorry" to another person (in the Sacrament of Reconciliation this person is a priest) is essential for real healing and reconciliation to take place. The Catholic Church teaches that it is essential for us to hear the words "I forgive you" for real healing and reconciliation to take place. 
This sacrament is not supposed to increase our guilt. This sacrament is not supposed to make us feel that we are absolutely 
no good. 
---~-~-----------,
---~-------------~ 



VIEWPOINT 
page8 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayrer Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan ControUer .........•..........•.......••••.••.. Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sporrs Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presem rhe views of rhe authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.ed u General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• OuR TURN 
A Course for life: Catholic Character 101 
On your day, that is your birthday, did you receive a present or two? Was one present wrapped in a unique way? Was it delivered in a plain looking envelope with a special note and significant enclosure? 
As you remember your gifts, did those people who brought them come to mind? How would you describe your relationships with them? Are they fami­ly, friend or "just an acquaintance"? What does the present represent? Love? Joy? Possibility in the future? Past good times? Care and Concern? Compassion? Forgiveness? Time spent together? Service? Obligation? Happiness? 


M.J. 
Griffin 

Another day is most important to each of us. However, it is a day about which we do not know much. That day is the day of our birth. The day of our birth was a gift to us, to our parents, to our family and friends, and to the future. We don't know the story of that day per­fectly, but others have shared its signifi­cance with us. Their words have creat­ed the experience of that day for us. Their words have told us how we began to know, to act and to feel in this world. 
Words are wrappings on reality and experience. What is the truth of your experience for you? Who is part of your experience? Is God, is Jesus, is the Spirit there? 
The Catholic Character of Notre Dame ... 
Wait a minute. Where is the transi­tion? How can one just start there? Where was that? What is the connec· tion? Look around flrst. 
Are Catholics characters? What are Catholics with character? Do Catholics 
• DOONESBI.JRY 
have character? Is character Catholic? 
How could Character be Catholic? Where do questions lead us? Most importantly, where do our questions lead us? 
What do words do for this reality, this experience within people? For people here? 
Have you decided to take this class? It is self paced. It is offered 24 hours a day. No PIN number is needed and all DART times work. If you take it on the side it will be as challenging as if you took it full time. The assignment is given as you register. Have you seen it? 
Assignment for life: Choose one and live forever. Are you a Catholic charac­ter? Do you have a Catholic Character? Are you becoming a Catholic Character? 
What is your experience that lets you know and meet the reality of the Catholic character in some form? 
Each day we are asked many ques· tions. Some are complex and others are not. We answer yes, no and maybe. We expound and explain. At times, we defend. What is worth the defense we give? Those responses shape, define and direct us as we attempt to develop into a whole person. 
As we become a whole person, what becomes more important-being Catholic or having character, or both? What happens? What happens espe­cially at Notre Dame? The Catholic character of each person of the commu­nity, of the University, of the Church, of the world depends on the intimacy of each with the reconciliation and resur­rection of Jesus as the way of life. 
What is real about one who lives the reconciliation and resurrection of the gospel? What is real is their connection to Jesus as Lord of one's life in commu­nity. The power of reconciliation and resurrection do not originate within us. They are the gift of faith. Faith is our starting point and our framework of un­derstanding. 
At some times, perhaps our discussion becomes too heated and promotes or defends the Catholic Character. We must remember its origin is as a gift of faith. Have we made the commitment to be a people of reconciliation and resur· rection? 

If we designed a billboard to celebrate your life, how would it reflect Catholic Character? What picture, sign or sym­bol would represent you as a person of reconciliation and resurrection? What is your slogan? "Love one another as I have loved you ... by this all will know that you are my disciples?" "Come fol­low me and I will give you living water? "Feed my lambs, feed my sheep?" "Come to me all you who labor and are weary and I will flnd you rest?" "Arise, pick up your mat, your sins are for· given?" "Do not be anxious about your life ... For life is more than food and the body more than clothing... Instead seek, his kingdom and these things shall be yours as well." 
What is your slogan? 
If you pick up a can fallen on the floor at Martin's, is that the Catholic Character? If you step aside and tell your opponent on the fleld to come in for a touchdown, is that the Catholic character? If you call up a friend and tell them I was just thinking of you, is that the Catholic Character? If you go to the Grotto, is that the Catholic Character? If you ... , is that...? 
Wait, what did I just say? Are we sup­posed to do, let the tailback from Stanford in for a touchdown? Is this the Gospel? Is this Catholic Character? Is my every day life supposed to be affect· ed by the Gospel? 
The Catholic Character of each person of the community, of the. University, of the Church, of the world depends on the intimacy of each with the reconciliation and resurrection of Jesus as the way of life. 
M.J. Griffin, O.S.F., is the rector of Howard Hall. 
Editor's note: Our Turn is a weekly, rotating column in which members of the University community reflect on Catholic Character at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
''Faith is the daring of the soul to go farther than it can see." 
-William Newton Clark 

HeAR 7HAT,MOM 2 KNICK­YOU KNOW, FOR.. 
a/f.WN'THAVE 70 f<NA{J(S.'
KN/0<.­

RU5TI{/3, YOU FOL.K5
5UI.-015Ha/ASH£/?3 IT'S UK& A
KNACI<S? SURE ARE GIVEN
ANYMORe.'If£CAN ll<fiJM(J)M£ 
T05ARCA5M. 
51Af({Of 70 7RUf.! IF
I 

-""""-~/
KNitl<-ONtY YOUR.. KNA0<5.' 
""'­
'1·2'f 



ACCE,NT
Thursday, September 29, 1994 page 9 
'Guelwaar' examines conflicts in Senegal 
By MARK ROSENBERG Accent Writer 
The moving African film, "Guelwaar," that has been described in the New York Times as a "beautifully observed human comedy," will be screened tonight at 7 p.m., in the Annenberg Auditorium of The Snite Museum. "Guelwaar" was written and directed by Ousmane Sembene, the leading novelist and filmmaker in Senegal. 
Sembene's films explore the conflicts between Europeans and Africans in Senegal, an African nation which was a colony of France until 1960. The French attempted to assim­ilate the Africans into a French culture. While the country has been independent for years, the French influence has persisted and exists to some extent today. 
The plot of "Guelwaar" addresses the impact of this influence through a mix of political drama and farcical comedy. The riveting drama involves the death of Guelwaar, a Catholic who was strongly opposed to foreign aid for Senegal. 
The comic element occurs when Guelwaar's body is mis­takenly buried in a Muslim cemetery. The ensuing compli­cations and disputes over the body reveal some of the reli­gious conflicts which defme pol­itics in Senegal. 
While the political and social conflicts of a distant African republic may seem irrelevant to an American audience, African Student's Association president Guillaume Zounlome feels that the film addresses a "problem that is universal all around the world." 
Zounlome compares the situ­ation in Senegal with the situa­tion in Northern Ireland and hopes that the film has an important message for the Notre Dame community. 
"By showing how Senegal, Catholics and Muslims cooper­ate, we hope to give a good example to other people," Zounlome said. 
The film was produced in Senegal in 1992 and runs for 115 minutes. The film is in French, but does contain subti­tles in English. 
-
"Guelwaar" will be presented by the African Student's Association for a donation of $1 or more. 

• Music Review 

One Soupdragon's trip underwater 
By ROB ADAMS 
chord rifT dominates the Music Critic first seconds of "May the Force Be With You." The Titling an album intensity then evaporates Hydrophonic suggests as Dickson delivers a that for the best possible fable in his usual second­results, you should try person swagger. Congas listening to it underwa­performed by Mickey ter. Finn (formerly of T-Rex) 
Although I haven't complete the mix. tried that yet, I just might The groove is slightly in order to get the full slower on "Contact effect; this is one heavy High." Dickson's vocals groove collection. are put to the test as he 
Originally formed in spends time dealing with 1985 in Glasgow, a strong echo chamber a Scotland, the Soup cappella. Screeching Dragons achieved high notes are reached absolutely no status in by the guitar which the United States until explodes into a synthesiz­their classic remake of er-induced eruption of the Rolling Stones' ''I'm sound crystals. In the Free," and the Lovegod meantime, doo-wop style album crossed the of background vocals Atlantic in late 1990. magnifies the song's 
By the same token, drama. they had received very "J.F. Junkie," is the little acclaim in the UK song when everything until that hit. comes together on 
Unfortunately for the Hydrophonic. A cycle of Soup Dragons, when that vicious guitar crunches song hit, the Manchester cuts through a primitive, Revolution was at its tribal rhythm. Through peak, and the four-man heady distortion, the band was looked down music takes a trip into upon by many British the idea of hydrophonia artists and critics for and all songs duel, even­adapting the Manchester tually merging into one sound. harmonious result. 
For an American com­Quick, soulful picking 
parison of the respect at the guitar begins the 
they received, see the laid-back trip which is 
Stone Temple Pilots. "Black and Blues." 
Much like this San Diego Dickson's vocals rise and 
band who suddenly fall according to the 
sounded like they had song's melody. "Don't 
grown up in the flannel­ever call my name/Cos 
clad grunge capital, the you're not my real 
Soup Dragons were sell­friend," hums Dickson as 
ing more records and had more hits delayed the creative process,n Dickson more intense: sounds will echo and the sound fades only to release more 
than many of the groups they were said. "With the new album already shimmer, songs take completely unpre­quick, soulful picking. 
emulating, but it wasn't enough. written, I carried on and returned to dictable twists, and foils are created The noise and psychedelic sounds on 
In 1992, when they released, recording with a new sense of freedom through structure as if traveling in a this album are an astounding br.eak­
Hotwired, their fourth album, they had that I was fully able to explore." tunnel. away from anything else the Soup 
branched out a bit after spending some As a result, although he kept the Soup Dickson's gospel influences are Dragons have ever done. The guitar 
time developing their own sound. Dragons name, this is essentially a apparent; many songs' choruses are riffs are big and plentiful, the bass 
Although it was fairly acclaimed, the Sean Dickson solo album. Aside from heightened by powerful female vocal broods, and the background vocals are 
only major hit it had was the catchy spotty appearances by guest musicians arrangements. Thick guitar riffs are solid.. With this Hydrophonic, maybe 
"Divine Thing." {including Bootsy Collins, Tina balanced by break drum beats, and one Soup Dragon will finally get some 
While apart from each other after Weymouth, and many others), Dickson provide a fluid yet dense collaboration respect. 

almost a year of touring, Sean Dickson plays all the instruments. of noise. ­
(lead singer and guitar player) was Dickson continues many of the styles "The Time is Now" combines deep 
working on some new tunes for the that made the Soup Dragons such a bass, slices of Hammond organ, and 
next album. However, he was never snappy, funky rock-n-roll band, but juicy wah-wah pedal to create an 
able to play them with the rest of the beyond that, he truly elaborates on the atmosphere more likely to be found in a 
band because the other three members album's theme. party than a song. A tambourine and a 
decided to leave. Psychedelia has always been in DJ's scratching provide a full range of 
"Their leaving made me feel hurt, abundant supply on past Soup Dragons background music. 
upset, and angry and it considerably albums, but on Hydrophonic, it is even A signature Soup Dragons three­r<: -,fm·:r~· ,? .vchnrrrlT page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 29, 1994 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2
Classifieds 
cents pet character per day, including all spaces. 
FEMALE MODELS 18-25 needed  CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD  Need 1 GA Stan. BYU or A. F.  HELP! I need 4 Navy tickets-stud.  WANTED BOTON COLLEGE  
NOTICES  by photographer for photo/video work in lingerie and similar apparel.  NOTRE DAME. I would if I had tick­ets to the Stanford game. Alum  Matt3571  and GA. Call Brian at x.2034.  2771659  
Call Jim at 273-7074 for info.  REALLY wants to return to campus  NEED BYU GA'S. CALL ERIN  For SALE: 3 Stud. STanford tix.  Have 2 Stan. stud tix. Call 273­ 
IIIIIATTENTION SOPHO­ with family. Student tix ok. Price  #4015  289-9420  4372  
MORESII!II  Help!II Need bass player for our  negotiable. Call collect after 6 pm  
The Class of '97 Service Project will  band. Sorry, no metal, rap, or  (516) 499-5009.  $1 NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S$  Two married student tickets for sale  INDIGO GIRLS-NEED 1-2 tixl  
be kicking off the year with a house  polka music Call Julie 273-0182  CALL AMY X2652  for remaining games. Call287­ 271-1532  
painting project on Sunday, 1019. It  WANTED: BYU GA'S WILL PAY  0611 if interested.  
will be the first of many projects  Will Pay big $ for Indigo Girls tix ­ BIG BUCKS. CALL KRISTEN OR  Need 2 Standford tix  need 1 stanford stud or ga tick-call  
with the Northeast Neighborhood.  232-3167 Jay  KATE@ 271-Q224  Call Chris x3767  Needed: one BYU ticket.  mike 271-9471  
Help us get off to a great start and  Please call634-1439  
help us help others. Talk to your Sophomore Class Council Dorm  FOR RENT  I NEED TWO NAVY G.A. CALL MIKE X3692  Need 2 STANFORD GA's Please call Curtis-282-2197  FOR SALE: ONE STANFORD GA.  will sell 2 GA's for Stan!, AF, and Navy call 287-1449  
Rep, or call. Elrian at x1 058. Thanks  Call Nikki x4871  
-trust us ...  THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  $$$Help! I need 2 Navy GAs.  I need Navy GA's PLEASE!  Looking for 2 Stanford GAs. Call  
*******YOU WILL HAVE FUN!*******  NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED  Please call Usa at 277-Q740. Will  Call Brandon at x-3460  I NEED 2 BYU GAs  Steve X-4556.  
BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  pay top dollars.$$$  CALL McKENNA 271-2956  
NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  PLEASE HELP:  $Pay Big Bucks$ (rich friend)  
USED TEXTS CHEAPIIII  OBSERVER FOR 1 0% DISC. 219­ Need BYU TIX (prefer GAs)  Holy Cross (MA) Women's and  Need Stnfrd stdnt or GA tixs, call  for 1 BYU stu. tik. Joe 4018  
Buy & sell used books at the only  773-2034  will pay good money or will trade  Men's X-Country Teams NEED  Chris x1197  
hip place in town 10-6M-SI9-3Sun  tix to any other home game  Tickets to Stanford Game (GA or  NY Alum needs 1-4 tickets for BYU  
PANDORA'S BOOKS  THE PRIMROSE PATH BED &  Call Dennis at (914)294-6546  Stud) please call Ted at 4-1663  Please! I need 1 BYU GA and  game. Call1-800-666-4949 Ask for  
NO ave & Howard St 233-2342  BREAKFAST-Historic Home, quiet  2 STANFORD GAs!  Ann Hiens  
setting, 4 guest rooms, shared  Need 3 GA's for Navy or Air Force;  I need 2 GA's for Stanford. Mike  Mary Beth x4220  
Downtown Book Wholesaler needs  baths. 20 minutes to campus.  make an offer! Paul-277-6433  289-3203  &&&&&&&&&&&&  
clerical &/or warehouse  616-695-6321.  Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call  Need 2 tickets  
workers flexible schedule & wkend  Need 1 Stanford  I NEED BYU GA'S  Sue at 277-8995  to see Maya at SMC.  
work 232-8500 X22  Parents, Alums, need room for  stud. orGA  CALL JEFF @ 277-8250  Call4-4478.  
ask for Bryan  games. Comfortable home, walk  Call Nick 289-9708  Help! I need two Stanford GA's call  &&&&&&&&&&&&  
to campus. 277-7371  I need 3 G.a>'s to B.Y.U. If u  Jen at 273-0741  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NEED 2 GA BYU tix and 2-6-GA  can help, call Ron at x1736  NEED SEASON STUDENT TICK·  
NEED CASH?  ROOM FOR RENT, NO-STAN­ Stanford tilt Please call Rachael  NO Family Reunion  ET BOOKLET OR STUDENT TICK­ 
MORRISSEY STUDENT LOAN  FORD GAME. CALL 255-9005  at#4667.  Desperate for BYU GA  Need 4-6 STANFORD GA's  ET TO STANFORD GAME.  
-30 day loan  FOR MORE INFORMATION.  Ted@4-3485  Family has airfare, now we need  CALL JOE X2712  
-$10 to $250 loan amounts  NEED 2 GA's for NAVY &  tickets!! Call x3650  
-1% interest -Open Mon.-Fri. 11:30 to 12:30  Apartment for rent -Clean, smoke free, utilities included. No pets, air  NEED 4 GA's for BYU CALL Chris x-1353  NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR STANFORD  NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE AND  PERSONAL  
next to LaFortune Info. Desk  cond. range & regrig. fumished-10  Parents coming from CALIFOR­ STANFORD! CALL BOB *1233  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  mins from NO 271-Q919  I need 2 Stanford GA's x1659 Desi  NIA- Seamaisin at The Midway Tavern,  
CALL JENNIE AT 272-0108  Need 2 STANFORD GAs for dad  Mishawaka, Every Thursday  
Are you wondaring about being  BEAUTIFUL ROOMS W/PRIVATE  NEED 3 STUDENT STANFORD  and bro. TOP $$! Anna x2286.  
GAY? Are you feeling AFRAID and  BATHS FOR RENT FOR FOOT­ TXTS-X2377.  I need one Air Force GA or student  YOOHOOI Where R U? 3 chicks  
ALONE? Want a SAFE place to  BALL WKNDS. 3 MI. FROM CAM­ ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please  NEED 8 STANFORD TICKETS.  looking 4 NICE guys & cant find  
talk? Come to the Am. 300, U.  PUS. (219) 277-8340.  NO Alums Need Stanfd. GA's  call X3822. Thanks!  CALL GRANT 416-865-7741.  any. If UR out there, write to  
Counseling Center 7:30 Tonight  Call (313) 420-1208 or (310) 813·  The B.U.S.  
ILOST & FOUND I  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC EVENTS.  5659 Long lost family and friends coming  I need 2 Stanford GAs for my par­ents. Please call Tom at 271-9576.  I NEED ONE AIR FORCE TICKET­GA OR STUDENT. PLEASE CALL X3616. THANKS!  672 Lemans Hall I need a "Drink like a champion  
219-291-7153.  for STANFORD game! Desperately  Thanks!  today" t-shirl please. Call Mud at  
FOUND: Bracelet in DeBartolo; call  need 7 tixl Call Donald x1844.  X2569  
Susan 277-1724  1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR  I NEED STANFORD AND FLA ST  I NEED 1 GA for NAVY. VERY  
RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  GAs -631-6696 CHRIS  IMPORTANT! Brian 273-8553  Student Activities is accepting  
*-*** REWARD ......  PROPERTIES. 272-6306  HOME GAMES. 272-7233.  applications for a  
A $250 REWARD GOES TO  $$$NEED 2 STANFORD TIX  NO Alum Needs 2 STANFORD  Stepan Building Manager.  
ANYONE WHO CAN RETURN  Looking for Student Tenant  FLYING OUT FROM CALIFORNIA  CALL X3526 $$$  GAs, BIG $$1 Call 217-337-6862  For more information and/or an  
MY 1991 CANNONDALE RED  clean,fumished, 1-bedroom apt.  -DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA  application stop by 315 LaFortune.  
SHRED COMPETITION SERIES  $275. 607 E. Corby-3 blocks  TICKETS TO STANFORD GAMEl  need 1 GA for BYU, AIR FORCE or  Apply by Friday, September 30.  
BIKE. A SMALLER REWARD  west of N.D. Ave. Deposit,  (916)671-3299 KEVIN  I DESPARATEL Y NEED 2 GA's to  NAVY! call ann x4544  
GOES TO ANYONE WHO CAN  references,8Q0-582-9320  the Navy Game for my parents from  The Notre Dame Ultimate Frisbee  
GIVE ME REAL INFO AS TO ITS  Family flying from ALASKA for 1st  NY ­Please help!  Elp-hayl 1-hay eed-nay oo-tay An­ Club will be having the first official  
WHEREABOUTS. PLEASE HELP ME-SOMEONE IS NOW  DO YOU NEED A HOTEL ROOM  NO game. Need 4 BYU ticks., stu. or G.A. PLEASE! Call shannon  Call Brian x1 058 -Thank you.......................................  ford-stay ickets-tayll All-cay lkki­nay at-hay X4081 .  practice of the year this Sunday night from 8:00-9:00 in Loftus. All  
RIDING AROUND ON MY LIFE  FOR THIS WEEKEND?  291-6288  are welcome. No experience neces­ 
SAVINGS. -JANET  -RELATIVES FROM OUT OF  STANFORD GAME-NEED  Need 2 Navy GA's. Call287-1953  sary and everyone is encouraged to  
x1572  TOWN HAD CHANGE OF PLANS  NEED TIX • 5 BYU GA'S, 4 STAN­ 3GA'S&2STUDS PLEASE 2773109  give it a shot. For more information,  
AND WILL NOT BE USING IT!  FORD GA'S -Call Joe @ x2765  NEED 4 STANFORD ST. TIX  contact Dave at x3438 or Tony at  
FOUND: A watch at the Observer  -IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  HEATHER x2580  233-4345.  
Classified Department.  RENTING A DOUBLE ROOM AT  PAUL X4327  
Please come back to claim it.  THE SIGNATURE INN FOR THIS  NEED 2 AIRFORCE TICKETS!!  Angry Airmen need Air Force GA's.  Play Ultimate!  
FOUND: Small pair of keys outside  COMING FRIDAY AND SATUR­DAY NIGHT PLEASE CALL PATTY  Call Christy @ 4956 ........................................  ***** NEED 2 ST A FORD GA's ••••• ->for family, call Pete at x3586  Serve your country. Call x4816.  We're Open  
of Zahm. To claim call Ed lmbus 4­ @X1556  or x0796.  Need three GAs for any home  Early, Late, & Weekends!!!  
3334.  game. Call Matt at 289-2710  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
Desperate and Beautiful  FOR SALE  baaahh  LaFortune Student Center  
FOUND (mid-September): small  CHANGE IN PLANS! LOCAL 2  Mormons Need 3 BYU Tickets  STUD TIX for STANFORD  Phone 631-COPY  
crucifix, near library circle. call  PERSON B+B RESERV. AVAIL  Callx2703.  and all other home games  Need 1 Stanford ticket­ 
kirsten at 4-4185 if you think it  9/30-10/1. 617-484-4618  Scott 272-6621  Kevin @ 289-3203  ET IN ARCADIA EGO  
might be yours.  Interested in the secret histories of  
$50 REWARD-For the return of  FOR SALE  NEEDFSUTIX SUSAN 2771724  ###################### WANTED: 4 Stanford GAs  HELP!! I NEED BC GA'S. PLEASE CALL LIZ X2325. :)  covert social forces? Seeking true power & wealth? Fascinated by  
or info. leading to the return of 2  call Whitney  the politics of opportunism &  
CO's: Pearl Jam "No -' Messiah"  Tired of walking? CLASSIC 1972  NEED STANFORD STUD. TIX  @ 288-2589  NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S  manipulation? Prepared to do what­ 
and Nirvana "All Acoustically". 272­ NOVA, 4 Dr, 61K, Auto, PS, New  CALL 234-8958.  ######################  CALLX4570  ever it takes to get what you  
4021  Tires, Runs Greaatl Some rust,  want? If this is your truth, you may  
$1100, Leave message 299-1774.  NEED STANFORD GA'S  HELP, I NEED TIX TO ALL HOME  Need Stan. GAs Eric x1087  be spiritually fit to join the  
WANTED  '71 M.G. MIDGETT RED CON­ MATT 257-0564  GAMES! (GA'S & STUDENT) esp. * 2 GA'S FOR STANFORD  I will trade 2 50 yd line Air Force Tix  Bavarian Illuminati. We will have our first meeting on  
VERTIBLE. SHARP, RUNS GOOD.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  * 1 STUDENT TIC FOR BYU  for 2 Stanford Tix or will buy  Friday, Sept 30, at 8pm in the  
BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR ONE­ $1,700. CALL 277-3239.  NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA-WILL  * MANY GA'S &/or STUDENT  Stanford Tix. Call Bob (818)577­ lobby of the Architecture Building.  
HOUR AM EXERCISE CLASSES.  PAY BIG BUCKS-CHRIS 4-3095  FOR AIR FORCE  7849  Conspiratorial elitists & Machia­ 
PAID POSITION PLUS FREE  Multi-track Cassette Recorder.  * 4 GA'S TOGETHER FOR ANY  vellian personalities are welcome.  
EXERCISE MEMBERSHIP. CALL  4 tracks; 12 inputs. New $999; Sell  I have 2 Navy GA's to trade for 2  GAME  SALE:2STAND/2BYU  No jokers/slackers/Discordians  
277-Q111 FOR MORE INFO.  $675. 277-5912; 631'-7133  BYU GA's. Call Joe x4024  PLEASE HELP! THANK YOU!  best offer leave mess  need attend. This is a serious offer:  
CALL KATIE ADAMS @2845  288-8680  come fulfill your destiny!  
SMC CLASS RING  I need 2 NAVY GAs  
mSPRING BREAK 95***  PETITE WIOIAMOND  Will pay Big $$$  Need 2 Stanford tix Call Gary 800­ SMC-ND STUDENTS SUMMER  
America's Itt Spring Break  10K GOLD  Please call Laura at  stu. tix for sale, call272-5842  227-4000, ext. 612 M-Thr 12-4.  TRAVEL PROGRAMS LONDON  
Company! Cancun, Bahamas,  MAKE AN OFFER  284-4328  AND ROME. CREDITS IN BUEC,  
Daytona & Panama! 110"/o Lowest  273-6205  FOR SALE: 2 Stanford GA's.  ED, MUSIC, HIST, & ITALIAN.  
Price Guarantee! Organize 15  NO Grad student  273-9838.  WANTED: 1 STANFORD  TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOT­ 
friends and TRAVEL FREE! Earn  CONDO FOR SALE-Woodbridge­ seeks 4 Navy GAs  STUD/GAl CALL Rachel #4-4093  LAND, FRANCE, SWITZ. MEET­ 
highest commissions! (800)32­ Minutes from NO-end unit on pond- to take family to game  Need 1 Stanford stu. tick. Call  ING OCT. 3, 6:30 CARROLL HALL  
TRAVEL  18177F Stoneridge-2BR+Loft,  Call 271-7276  Shannon 291-6288  Help!! I need 2 BYU and 2 Navy  (SMC) FOR INFO CALL PROF.  
Fireplace, All Gar w/Opener­ GAs. Call Monica X4091.  A.A. BLACK-284-4460 OR 272­ 
MACRI'S DELl  $58,00Q-Call 232-5190.  HELP! I need 1 Stanford GA (or  HELP!! Looking for 2 GAs for BYU  3726  
Help wanted. Need 8-12 energetic  married) Monica X2995  Call277-3811  Bevin needs 4 Stanford GAs. Call  
people to complete our stall. Front  SCHWINN COLLEGIATE 3-SPEED  X2533 and sell them to her.  ARE YOU AFRAID OF TIME CON­ 
and back of the house positions  BIKES, MAN'S & WOMAN'S, NEW  Need 3 Stanford Tix, GA preferred  NEED MANY STANFORD TIX  SUMING RELATIONSHIPS?  
available. Good starting pay with  TIRES, TUBES, COMFORT  Call 234-6843. Ask for Dan  $$ call Pete x1728  SELLING STANDFORD STD TICK­ SO ARE WE! IF LOW-MAINTE­ 
benefits and bonuses. Flexible  SEATS. $100 EACH. 277-2182.  Manley.  ET AND BOOKLET. LUIS 2731528  NANCE IS WHAT YOU'RE LOOK­ 
hours, excellent working conditions.  Taking the LSAT? Sell me your  ING FOR -CALL JULIE OR LAURA  
Apply within 214 Niles  Stanford ticket. Call Will at x1699.  NEED Stanford tickets, student  284-4312  
Ave. 1/2 block South of Corby's.  FOR SALE '83 HONDA PRELUDE  Please Please Please Please  or GA-Call Rob @ 1900  
282-1351  GOOD COND. $3200 o.b.o.  I need 4 Stanford GA's  FOR SALE 1 STANFORD  "I want to kiss a boy," turns 21 this  
288-9612 KIANA  Will trade Navy GA's or buy.  Stud ticket -Call 634-4575  Need Stanford GA's. Call Collect  Thursday ... watch out everybody!  
- HELP WANTED: ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS  TICKETS  -Bryan x 1190 ....................................  Selling 1 Stanford GA Best offer by Thursday night  513-339-7068 FOR SALE : 2 GA's for Stanford  Hey naked man, I saw you streaking the other night  
NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND  I HAVE 2 NAVYGA TIX  Call Kathleen at 273-5176  50 yd line row 20  and I wanted to let you know that  
ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY  FOR SALE  I NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA TIX  $100 each or BO  you ate one sexy guy. I'm  
NEWS SERVICES,  1 Stanford student ticket  LETS MAKE A TRADE  NEED 2 STANFORD GAs  Tony 272 -6621  impressed. By the way, I rea'lly like  
232-3205 OR 288-9361.  Call Tara 4-4514  I'LL PAY THE DIFFERENCE  CALL CHRIS AT X4386  the sombrero.  
DENISE X2549  I need Navy GA's. Paul at X2681  An admirer in P.E.  
PIZZA MAKER -PART TIME­ WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT.15 BYU  DESPERATE!  
EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD  TICKETS. CALL  I HAVE 2 NAVY GA TIX  Need 2 Stanford GA's  Desperately Need 2 Stanford GA's  Anyone interested in a new eye­ 
MONEY.  800-922-2327 JANET.  I NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA TIX  Call Todd x1052  Please call Chris@ 1527  opening, pleasurable, and satisfy­ 
CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW  LETS MAKE A TRADE  ing experience, call E-Dawg or G­ 
YORK  I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.  I'LL PAY THE DIFFERENCE  **** NEED BYU TIX •••••••  I NEED 2 BYU GA'sl  Child at x2083. No previous experi­ 
257-1100.  272-6551  DENISE X2549  Call 289-9050  Call Julie @277-4612  ence needed.  


Thursday, September 29, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
! 
l I 
I 
l
Legends tainted by gambling NHL season certain l j 
Bylf4LBOCK after the fact, CCNY's basket­"We thought we were laying Associated Press ball class of 1950, the only down and we found out the 

to be postponed 1 
team in history to win both the other team was doing the same NEW YORK NIT and the NCAA tournaments thing," he said. "It was a farce. 
They came from the side­By KEN RAPPOPORT games were all but certain to
·in the same year, was installed We'd throw a pass astray and 
walks of New York, from Associated Press be called off. Bettman has said
in the New York City Basketball they'd give it right back. That 
Brooklyn, the Bronx, the season would not open
Hall of Fame at the headquar­gave you an idea." 
Manhattan and Queens, as­NEW YORK without a new collective bar­
ters of Chemical Bank, sponsorsembled by Nat Hoirnan, one of of the Hall. What it meant was one set of Players rejected the National gaining agreement. the early geniuses of the game, The miracle is they achieved gamblers had fixed CCNY's Hockey League's latest pro­
recruited to play college bas­that unique double in a year players and another group had posal for a labor contract If so, hockey would join base­ketball at City College. when they were shaving points done business with the other Wednesday, and the season's ball as the second sport to be They were a melting pot, a and dumping games. team. start seemed doomed to be disrupted by labor strife this group of poor kids, some black, And they weren't the only "There were bookmakers all postponed before the weekend. season. Baseball players have some white, united by their ones. over the place," Mager said. With no negotiations sched­been on strike since Aug. 12, passion for basketball. Norm Mager, Holman's sixth "Everybody suspected some­uled, NHL commissioner Gary and the rest of the season, in­Together, they became cham­man, remembered one game thing was up, even the gam­Bettman is expected to brief cluding the playoffs and World 
pions. against a Midwestern team. blers who weren't in on it." league governors on the stalled Series, have been called off. On Wednesday, a generation negotiations in a conference · "They have rejected a plan 

• BASEBALl 

Removal of baseball antitrust exemption near 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
A House subcommittee on Wednesday took the first step to removing baseball's antitrust exemption, approving a limited bill that deals only with labor matters. 
The bill, scheduled for a vote Thursday by the House Judiciary Committee, would give baseball players the same legal status as athletes in other sports if owners unilaterally impose work rules, such as a salary cap. who chairs the House Judiciary an automatic injunction against a salary Baseball owners have been exempt from Committee, said baseball was "on the cap until any lawsuits are decided. The antitrust laws since a 1922 U.S. verge of being destroyed or worse -second left it up to the courts to deter­Supreme Court decision. written ofT by the American public." mine whether the union would have to 
"The barons of the game appear to decertify before a suit could be heard ­
"This is an historic day. For the first have forgotten the fiduciary respect of a a tactic forced on NFL players when time in the history of Congress, a sub­public trust," he said. they sued after their 1987 strike. committee -and tomorrow a commit­However, two key provisions the union tee-has voted to remove an exemption wanted were deleted before Union head Donald Fehr, testifying that has existed for over 50 years," said Wednesday's vote by the Judiciary before the subcommittee last week, Rep. Mike Synar, the Oklahoma Committee's subcommittee on economic promised that if the original bill by Democrat who sponsored the bill. and commercial law. Synar became law, players would end 
Rep. Jack Brooks, the Texas Democrat The first eliminated what amounted to the strike, which began Aug. 12. 

The Eugene B. Clark Lecture Series Presents 
DAVID w. JOHNSON 
Chairman, President, and C.E.O. of 





gotl/l ~tm!pmlff 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 30 • 9:45 A.M. 
ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM, SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
ADMISSION IS fREE 
Coordinated by the College of Business Administration, the Marketing Club, and the Office of Corporate Relations. 

This date in baseball 
Associated Press 
1913 -Walter Johnson of the Washington Senators finished the season with 36 victories with a 1-0 decision over the Philadelphia A's. 
1954 -Willie Mays made his famous over-the-shoulder catch of Vic Wertz's long drive to center field and pinch-hitter Dusty Rhodes homered ofT Bob Lemon in the lOth inning as the New York Giants beat the Cleveland Indians 5-2 in the World Series opener. 
1963 -Stan Musial ended his career by going 2-for-3 as the St. Louis Cardinals defeated the Cincinnati Reds 3-2 . 
1963 -John Paciorek of the Houston Colt .45s in his only major-league appearance went 3­for-3 with three RBis and four runs scored against the New York Mets. A back injury ended his career the next season. 
1976-John Montefusco of the 
San Francisco Giants pitched a 9-0 
no-hitter over the Braves in 
Atlanta. 
1986 -Minnesota's Bert 
Blyleven broke Robin Roberts' 
1956 record of 46 home run pitch­
es in a season when he gave up a 
two-out, third-inning homer to 
Cleveland rookie Jay Bell. Despite 
giving up two more homers, 
Blyleven was the winner when the 
Twins rallied in the eighth, 6-5. 
1986 -Chicago Cubs rookie Greg 
Maddux defeated the Philadelphia 
Phillies 8-3 in the City of Brotherly 
Love. The losing pitcher was his 
brother, Mike, also a rookie. It was 
the first time brothers faced each 
other as rookie pitchers. 
1987 -Don Mattingly's major 
league record sixth grand slam of 
the season backed the four-hit 
pitching of Charles Hudson to lead 
the New York Yankees to a 6-0 vic­
tory over the Boston Red Sox. 

DIRECT FROM MANUFACTURER 

Delivery Available 
~'lAiitt ENT'fiFiisisa'. 

259-6201 
COLORADO 
...... 

1•800•SUNCHASE 
NOBODY DOl'S S1CI BREflKS B TTEIJ! 


Thursday, September 29, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• StUNT MArtY'S SOCCER 





Sick, injured Belles to battle Hope in Holland 
IH 
down the Blitz in the second From less than five yards 
half. With less than two out, she took the ball up the minutes left on the clock, middle and scored the gamecontinued from page 16 Walsh's offense took pos­winning touchdown. session and marched down "The offensive line
the 40 yard trick play. 
the field with the help of a blocked great," said
After an unsuccessful con­
pass interference call. Jackoboice after sealing the 
version attempt, the score 
Then, with about 30 sec­victory at a score of 13-6. 
was tied at six. 
onds left in regulation, Ann -JACK MACLEOD 
The Walsh defense shut 
.Jackoboice struck again. 
Grad Communities ND 
The Challenge ofAdult Christianity 
An opportunity for graduate and professional students and/or their spouses to share their Christian faith and experience in small community groups and to explore together the challenge of living that faith as young adult professional people. 
SUNDAY 2 October 1994 
Fischer Community Center 6:00 -8:00 p.m. Pizza Supper, Information, Beginning 
New groups will be formed. Continuing groups will be on hand to share their experience. 
Reservations and Information: return the Application Form received in the mail andIor call John Gerber, C.S.C. at 1-8601 or
IMJ 
Sharon Harwell at 1-8607 by September 30. 
~ 
•...an album of r~fim:m~nt anJ maturity." -N•w As• Journal 
"Swamp Oph~lia," th~ n~w album from Indigo Girls J~aturing "Touch M~ fall" anJ "L~ast Complicat~J." 
ProJuct:d by Peter Collint fo, J;ll Muok. LtJ. witb lndiso Girl•. 
M•n.scmcnt, 
Ru1HJI C•rtn Artist M•n.scmcnt, Ltd. 
to an amphith~atu n~ar you: 
scorer, and is presently serving 



Soccer 
a two game suspension. In his place, Berticelli started

continued from page 16 
Jean Joseph, the regular out­

Swam ~J B Prais~. side midfielder, in Oates' for­
opportunities. We did what we 
ward position, moved Chris

had to do, but just couldn't put Mathis to the outside midfielder the ball in the goal." 
position, and startedPart of this problem, may

'"Swamp Oph~lia' prov~s that succus hasn't Jrain~J an ounc~ of th~ 
Konstantin Koloskov in the cen­have been the absence of for­

~-==------, 
ter of the midfield.

ward Tim Oates from the line­up. Oates is the Irish leading 
lnJiso Girls' uncorrupt~J corfnhous~ sounJ." -US 
ATTENTION PROSPECTIVE LAW 
STUDENTS: 

Texas Tech Law School's Associate Dean, Joe Conboy, will be in the Conference Room of the Career & Service office on 
Sept. 30, 1994 from 11 a.m. -1 p.m. 
Anyone interested in obtaining information about Texas Tech Law School is invited. 
.. 
By TARA MOONEY Spons Writer 
The (3-5) Saint Mary's soccer team has yet another away game. The Belles will travel to Holland, Michigan to take on rival Hope College this afternoon at 4:00. 
"We expect it to be a tough game," junior Gwynne Davis said. 
"We are half way through our sea­son and we are hoping to improve our record," freshman Eileen Newell said. 
"Coming off this long weekend together the team is a lot closer," sophomore Jody Jennings said. "The team definitely bonded." 
The Belles were unable to score a point in both of last weekend's matches. Due to rain delays in last Sunday's game, Saint Mary's had to constantly keep moving in and out of doors, causing many of the players to become ill. Therefore, health will be a factor in today's game. 
"We have a lot of injuries and sick players right now," Jennings said. 
Junior starter, Rita Juster will be sitting out of this afternoon's game with a sprained ankle. Juster is a key player and will be greatly missed, according to sophomore Shari Matelski. 

By JENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's is on a three game winning streak after defeating North Park college 16-14, 15-10, and 15-8 last Tuesday evening improving their recorded to 5-4. 
"North Park improved a great deal from last year," said coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. "Last year we blew them away and this year it wasn't as easy." 
"North PaFk's offense had a quick attack, but they were not the best at serve receiving." 
The Belles served twelve aces against North Park. Captain Sara Stronzcek served five of the aces in the three games. 
"Our serves were so tough that North Park had a hard time setting up their offense," said freshman Brenda Hoban. "We really had good communication out there." 
Freshman Meg Kelly lead the Belles with ten kills, freshman Betsy Connolly had eight kills, and Stronzcek, freshman Aimee King, and Captain Ann Lawrence tied with five kills a piece. 
Connolly, originally from Santa Rosa California was one of the Belles top recruits. She was recruited by University of California at Berkeley, California State at North Ridge, and Kansas State University. 
"I really enjoy the volleyball pro­gram at Saint Mary's," said Connolly. "The level of play is harder than I thought." 
Connolly hit very consistently from the middle only having one error. She is hitting at .467 percent, according to Schroeder-Biek." 
Kelly Meyer was the starting setter for the Belles being substituted by Stronzcek during all three games. 
"Stronzcek played an all around great game," said Schroeder-Biek. 
Captain Kelly Prosser was still unable to play due to her sprained ankle. Prosser will hopefully be scheduled to play in Saturday's game against Carroll College and North Central College. 

• Stmn Mtulv's Vm.lnsALl 

Win streak continues 
.-------------------------------------------------------~-----~--­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 29, 1994 
• WOMEN'S INTERHAU. 
Siegfried and P.W. battle in big week of football 
By SHANNON O'DONNELL 
Sports Writer 
In what could be the biggest match-up of the week, number seven Siegfried is anticipating an upset over fourth ranked Pasquerilla West in an even battle on both sides of the ball. 
According to P.W.'s captain Bridget Magenis, "We are switching stuff up a bit. Our coaches have been checking Siegfried out, and we know they have a strong quarterback. So we are preparing ourselves for that. We are looking to shut down their offense." 
That quarterback, who also happens to be Siegfried's cap­tain, Marce McNeill, knows what she needs to do to ac­complish victory. 
"We need to focus on getting to know our plays and getting those plays to and from the sideline. We plan to go out and play our game and try to do the best we can," she said. 
McNeill predicts a tough game, but her team has been working on some development and fine-tuning of their plays, both offensive and defensive. 
"The defense is getting ex­posure to new plays as we come up with them," she said. 
Judging from their 6-6 tie with Pasquerilla East last Sunday, P.W.'s defense is ready for Siegfried's offense, accord­ing to Magenis. 
"Our defense missed a couple of key tackles, but they stepped up and held the rushing and had one interception," she said. Their offense does, however, need to improve its accuracy. 
"We are improving ourselves as a whole," Magenis said. "I think our team has a lot of potential and we are working on reaching it." 
Key players for Siegfried in­clude cornerback Sam Spencer, running back Jen Laurie, wide receiver Margaret Zimmerman and Kathleen Clark on the offensive line. 
Off-campus vs. Pasquerilla East 

Neither teams know what to expect from each other, both have one win and are unde­feated and like most other women's interhall football teams, they both have a lot of enthusiasm and a will to win. Tonight, the 1-0 second ranked off-campus team will challenge the 1-0-1 sixth ranked Pasquerilla East in a definite competitive match-up. 
Off-campus captain Kelly Guerin said her team's one ob­jective is to have fun, regard­less of the frequent lack of play­ers who show up for the prac­tices. 
"We will have a couple of players gone for this game," she said. "We just want to have a good time, and we obviously want to win. We have the tal­ent, but we have a hard time getting people to the practices, much less the games. So, if we do get enough players out there, I think we will do well against P.E. They have been tough in the past." 
Pasquerilla East's captain Sue O'Kain said she has no idea what kind of team off-campus has put together, but as far as her own team's defense, they will be tough to stop. 
"Our defense has been really good in the last two games; but we need to be more consistent 
free transportation 
and admission for all minority juniors and Seniors! 
MINORITY 

CAREER 
Friday

FORUM january 27 
SPONSORED BY 






e / • 
Andersen Consulting n " (!, a!l a 
Arthur Andersen 
Hewitt Associates Leo Burnett Company, Inc. 
PARTIAL LIST OF EMPLOYERS 
Andersen Consulting Armour Swift-Eckrich Arthur Andersen Boston Consulting Group CaP,ital Group Cittbank The CNA Insurance Co. Defense Intelligence Agency Ernst & Young Mgt. Consult. Goldman Sachs & Co. Harris Bankcorp Hewitt Associates LaSalle Partners Leo Burnett Company, Inc. Merrill Lynch Northern Illinois Gas SmithKiine Beecham Swiss Bank Towers Perrin University of Chicago 

The Chicago Marriott Do o'Wil Chicago, IL 
TO REGISTER 
send your resume to 
Crimson &Bro'Wil Associates, Inc. 1770 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 332 Cambridge, MA 02140 
617 868 0181 phone 
617 868 0187 lax 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE: November 1 Write ypur top 3 industry preferences on 
the backofyour resume 
Meet and Interview with over 35leading employers! 
on offense. We need to capital­ize on our field position and score more points," O'Kain said. 
Look for off-campus' quar­terback Nicole Neidlinger to lead the team to a possible vic­tory. "She did a great job on Sunday," Guerin said. Also, wide receiver Michelle Drury, who has been out with a frac­tured clavicle, will return for the game. 
Farley vs. Siegfried 
A 12-0 loss to Siegfried last Wednesday put Lewis in the twelfth spot in the polls this week; however, according to captain Tracy Cote, they are not giving up on this season just yet as they hope to overcome the ninth ranked Farley team tonight. 
"We are looking to rebound, regroup and come off with a win," Cote said. "It will be a tough game, but we think we can do well against them." 
The team has been focusing on communication and "improving the little things" this week. 
"We need to improve on our scoring opportunities and become stingier on defense," Cote said. "We do have a lot of speed on offense and aggres­siveness on defense." 
Similarly, Farley's captain Julie Ehrman said her team has shaped up and are expecting victory. 
"We have finally gotten things together," she said. ''I'm not sure what kind of team Lewis has, but we are getting a lot better." 
Pass coverage and their run­ning game have been the main focus of Farley's practice this week and from Ehrman's observations, receiver Sheila Wiegert, running back Heather Moran and cornerback Melissa Mapes have been looking pretty good. 
Their weakest point is their offensive line, which is always lacking a person. However, ac­cording to Ehrman, it is a good thing their wide receivers have been catching eve·rything thrown their way. 
Howto interview withthe Fo e500 withouteven 

OK, graduate-to-be. You can get up early or you can get Career/NET'Its simple: You give us your resume in a personal profile on the disk we provide. And we guarantee to deliver it to 10,000 employers (including the Fortune 500) in exactly the form they're looking for. Your Career/NET enrollment kit-a preprogrammed disk and a booklet of step-by-step instructions-is $99.95~ To be in the next nationwide distribution to employers, order today Calll-800-682-8539. 

'Plus $4.95 tor shipping and handling. 

SUBWAY six-FEET. IRISH de-FEAT. 
Before watching the Irish play Stanford Saturday, call SUBWAY today for a six-foot party sub for as low as $37.95. 
7:30 SATURDAY NIGHT! I 
11th-ranked 

NOTRE DAME 
vs. 


LOUISVILLE 
VOLLEYBALL 
JACC Main Arena ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 


.. 
... ' 

Thursday, September 29, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
wE.~l :J: \<EALL'\ l:>..NT [Ail-E £ 1-n<U::, 
_..,.
'So l-ET'S J'v~T (:,o ... 
,M... l<.t&I-\T. 
~ \-IE'S Cr:>..·r,.·ALVIN . 1 A~f.-ZING, <:sR£11..\ Ct>.·f!-:AL'J\N! ~. \-It.'S n.\t. OOt. -rnr--1 'I<Y-l'D 
. LIKE Ttl ME£1.' . l-IES THE CI>IE 'tll-\0 J\JSI CAI'\T BE BEf>..l .' 1\t.'S Cfl-·l\ALV\N.' Lt>-Dt>. TA J ~ DP.. DM.I>AA .' 
1 

w 
DILBERT 
I 
J 
j 
l l 
! ~ 
I 
l 
l 
j
-rut--~~ 'i<J\.l! \\1~1'-l\(. '10\J! 

I
l3()'i, V\\-\f.-1 M P..\J0\£.1'-lCE! 

j
Tl-lt>-"'K '!C\l.' I'LEf>.SE! \4~ Ht>.! NO. ~f>.LL'(, SIT -rn"'NK '{CAJ .' -mr..\\1.1( '{0\J .' 

~ 
j j 
l I ~ 
SCOIT ADAMS 


THIS ITEf'\ WILL REQUIRE 
0 
"'

YOUR USUAL EXECUTIVE.­
4 
-' 
0 
< < 

STYLE DECISION. 
"' ~ 
< 
" 
~ 
0 
M 
~ 
.. "' 
~ 
V) 

CROSSWORD 
YOU \<..NOW : KE.E.P IT ON YOUR DESK FOR THREE WEEKS I THEN ~ SNEAK lT BACK TO MY ~ cue,ICLE WITH AN ~ ILLEGIBLE QUESTION I 
SCRAWLEO 1 IN 11-\E 
" 
~ 
1"\AR.GlN. 0 
__) 
'1·11 

OR , FOR YOUR CONVE.N­IENCE, I 1-\f\VE MADE NO COPIES i SO YOU CAN LOSE. TI-\E ORIGINAL 
AND CLAIM YOU GAVE H BACK TOI"\E . 
_) 

ACROSS  26 Bull in  50 Latin life  
1 1980 Olympics host  Chihuahua 29 New Mexico artists' town  51"1f­Hammer" 53 Where Cuzco is  
5Writer­Louise Huxtable 8 Setting  31 Spots on the face 34 Drinkers'  56 Took it easy 58 Hopping step, in ballet  
13 Computer list  heavens  &1 Plie spots  
14 Outfielders' throws  37 1935 Astaire/ Rogers musical  63 Anna Pavlov a, e.g.  
16 Sleeping  39 "Great  &&Accustom  
problem  Expectations"  67 Garfield pal  
17 One-legged  boy  68 Desirous Greek  
ballet pose  40 Helpmate of  god  
19 "Swan Lake"  sorts  69-incognita  
wardrobe  420il-rich­ (old map  
20 Ballet spin 22 Fernando of  Dhabi 43 "In" site, in a  notation) 10 D.C. lawmaker  
"The French  phrase  71 Writer Kantor  
Connection"  45 Took hold  
23-Grande, Ariz.  again, as a plant 47 Riga resident  DOWN  
24Cafe cup  4801d Syria  1 Thurman of "Henry &June"  
2 Eccl. talk  
3 Lose it  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4 Limiting line 5Lhasa­(hairy terriers) 
56 Theatrical bit 
27 Express a view 44 Biblical verb 6 Pas-(dance ending 57 Murray of song 

forfour) 28 Ballet coach 46 Artists' lifeworks 59 Softens
7 The shivers 30Ad -per 8 Contents Aspera 49 Stallone role 60 Aer Ling us 
9 Computer's (Kansas' motto) 52 Voyaging land 
heart, for short 32 Local theaters 54 Stephen 62 Be wrong 10 Ballet leaps Foster's"­64"-a
3301d music 

-=+~+=-! 11 Opposite of alte Bayne" chance!"
magazine12 Smooth 55 Female ruff 650arwood35 Cote sound 15 Begin in earnest 

...
36Rub

18Time of importance 38 Cortes's quest Get answers to any three clues ,:,:++=+=-BB::::+.::-t:~ 21 Sampler 41 Series of by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
•:-:+::+=1iil•;:;t;=-r.~ 25 Weaken connected ballet 5656 (75¢ each minute).-.;::...r..;....L=:..--.-'-'-_._~ 26 "Fiddler" actor movements 

.. 

--SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, September 29, 1994 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish fall to Wake Forest, 1-0 
Mathis' free kick crossing pass that was headed into the penal­ty box, but after bouncing around for a couple of seconds, the ball was kicked out by the 

Offense yet to score 
on the road this year 
defense. Freshman forward By THOMAS SCHLIDT the ball in the net, and the Scott Wells followed this up by Sports Writer Deacons could. miss-hitting a crossing pass in 
The Deacon goal came in the the penalty box from Savarino. 
Last night was the big face off 20th minute of play as junior The final big scoring chance 
on cable television, Notre 
forward Ryan Scott drilled a came around the 83th minute,
Dame men's soccer versus low shot past Irish goalkeeper as midfielder Tony Capasso had Beverly Hills 90210. Both pro­Bert Bader. This was one of a one on one with the goal­vided endless entertainment, 
only three shots they had in the keeper, but his shot was yet, in the end, only Beverly 
match. blocked by McGinty.Hill 90210's players could The best chances to even up These missed opportunities score . 
the score came in the final 30 should not overshadow the The Irish lost another big minutes, as the Irish basically great game the team did play.road game to Wake Forest 
pitched camp in the Deacon They dominated the midfield Wednesday night by a score of zone. Forward Ryan Turner and the defense stifled any
1-0, lowering their record to 5-started the barrage as he ran counter attack. Yet, when in 
4. over a defender and crossed the opponents penalty box, they 
The Irish have yet to score a 
the ball in front of the net to could not execute. goal, or win a game, on the fellow freshman forward Bill "This was obviously a toughroad this year. 
Savarino. With only the goal­loss for us," coach Mike 
This was not a game the keeper, Mike McGinty, between Berticelli said. "We dominated Demon Deacons deserved to him and the net, Savarino pro­every facet of the game, but win, as the Irish dominated the ceeded to boot the ball over the just couldn't capitalize on our 
whole game. Yet, when it goal.counted, the Irish couldn't put 
Next came midfielder Chris 
see SOCCER I page 13 

.. ­
• WOMEN'S INTERHAU. 

Attitudes reign over Ducks 
By CHUCK CAMOSY like conduct and ejected from plays, Kraft found captain Trish Sports Writer the game. Sorensen wide open down the sideline for a 40-yard pass play 
After raining all day the 
Pangborn 13, to the 5-yard line. From there weather cleared up just in time Kraft avoided a defender and
Lyons 12

for the contest between Howard flipped it to freshman Kellyand Badin. However, Howard Brady for the touchdown to
Top-ranked teams beware.
still could've used rain jackets make it 13-6. 
There seems to be a girls' dorm 
as Badin rained big plays on Not to 'be outdone, the 
over on south quad which likes
them all game while cruising to Pangborn defense played solid
to play the role of giant-killers. 
an easy 20-0 victory defense, tackling well, while
The Phoxes of Pangborn hall
Wednesday evening. also putting pressure on Byrd.
have been busy the last couple·
The Attitudes controlled the "We made some adjustments
of weeks, upsetting No. 1 Badin 
ball on offense, content with at halftime," said Pangborn
and taking down No. 3 Lyons
small gains until they broke the coach Jim Delaney. "They were
last night 13-12. 
big one. They set the tone early overloading to the right side, so
However, the Pangborn de­
when they drove over 50 yards we positioned our linebackers
fense had to sweat it out in the 
in 6 plays on their initial pos­better."
final seconds as captain Julie
session to score the game's first "The team just didn't execute
Byrd tried to hit junior Jenny
touchdown. Badin used the op­as well as we did against B.P.," 
Layden on the extra point con­
tion to negotiate the Duck's 20 said Byrd. 
version to tie up the game. The
yard line. From there split-end In their drive to tie the game,
Phoxes came up big though,
Jill Sataneck scored on a per­Lyons went to their bag of
throwing a hard defensive rush
reverse.

fectly executed tricks and pulled out the old re­
at Byrd forcing the pass in­
Sataneck would score Badin's verse option. After the play
complete and sealing the game. 
other two touchdowns, one on a failed in the first half, Lyons
"Our pass defense was good
50+ yard bomb and another had confidence in it and it paid 
all night," said Pangborn coach
tremendous catch on a halfback off as junior Amanda Cast
Jim Delaney. 
option pass. Her performance made a leaping grab for a 35­
Pangborn's go-ahead score
certainly was player of the yard gain. Three plays later 
came on fourth and goal after
week quality. Byrd dished it off at the 20 for
three defensive stands by the
Not to be overlooked was the Layden and the junior did the
Lyon's defense. Nevertheless,
defensive performance against rest to get Lyons within one.
junior quarterback Mark Kraft
a fired-up Howard squad. However, they would get no
sneaked it in around the right
"We were very physical on closer.
side for the score to put the
defense and limited our mis­
-JOE VILLINSKI

Phoxes up 7-6. 
takes," said the head coach of 
"We switched our defense
the Attitudes. "That was the 
Walsh 13, 
this week," said sophomore
key to the game." 
Breen-Phillips 6 
cornerback Maureen Hill.
The Ducks played with emo­
"There was a little confusion on
tion and heart, but the big play some plays." In a nail biter at Cartier Field took the wind out of their sails. 
The second half started much last night, the Wild Women ofTheir frustration became evi­like the first one ended for the Walsh defeated the Breen­dent when a Howard coach was Phoxes. After a few running Phillips Blitz 13-6 on a touch-flagged twice for unsportsman­down scored in the last minute. 
The Blitz came out tough in the first half, intercepting a Walsh pass thrown by quarter­back Erin Nicholas. A few plays later, Blitz running back Wendy Morris broke free on the right side of the line, and out sprinted the Walsh defense for a 50 yard touchdown. BP failed to convert on the point after, leaving them with an early 6-0 lead. 

Walsh refused to give up. On their next offensive series, they dug to the last page in the playbook and found the hook and lateral, which enabled sophomore halfback Ann Jackoboice to catch a pitch from a receiver and scamper into the endzone to complete 
see IH I page 13 
of note...

Women's interhall 
Check this Friday's Sports Extra 

The second week of interhall football 
for information on the match-up 

continues with some key match-ups. 
• 
against Stanford . 
See page 14 







