
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Rita trial underway in Superior Court 
ND Law School graduate charged in Fox's November 1993 death 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
John Rita, graduate of the Notre Dame Law School, is cur­rently facing trial in St. Joseph 
County Superior Court for al­legedly caus­ing the death of Notre Dame fresh­man Mara Rose Fox 


while driving Mara Fox drunk. 
Fox, an eighteen year old from Oakton, Virginia, died November 13, 1993, from head injuries she suffered after being struck by a car on Douglas Road near Indiana State Route 
23. Fox and her friends were returning to campus from a Grape Road restaurant after a taxi they had requested never came. 
An eight woman, four man jury was selected and seated for the trial on Tuesday, October 25. Judge William Albright gave preliminary instructions to the jury that day, and opening arguments were heard the next morning. 
Prosecutor Michael Barnes called the case "simple and straightforward." 
Barnes outlined a case that he said will prove that Rita knew he had hit something with his car and failed to stop as re­quired by state law. Barnes also contended that Rita's blood alcohol level was above the le­gal limit while he was driving, and that Rita and his four pas­sengers had been partying that night as they awaited the Notre Dame-Florida State football match the next day. 
Defense attorney Charles Asher offered a different view of the events of November 12th and 13th. 
"John Rita did not have an il­legal blood alcohol level, he did not attempt to flee from his re­sponsibilities, and he did not cause Mara Fox's death," Asher said in his statement. 
The prosecution said it be­lieves that Rita was driving drunk at the time of the acci­dent because his blood alcohol content was well over the legal limit when it was measured more than three hours after the crash. Rita registered a .14 per­cent blood alcohol level in that test, Barnes said. The legal def­inition of intoxication is any­thing over .10 percent. 
Barnes also made a point of stating that Rita was not being charged with manslaughter or other premeditated crimes. 
"There's no one alleging that John Rita deliberately ran down Mara Fox," He said. 
The prosecutor did, however, ask the jury to consider why one of Rita's friends tried to call two lawyers before calling po­lice to inform them of the acci-

Changes to continue at dining hall 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
News Writer 
Following the changes made in food selection at North Din­ing Hall over fall break, Univer­sity Food Services will add more selections to that dining hall in the coming months. 
According to Jill Riggs, senior manager of North Dining Hall, new varieties in pizza will be unveiled in a few weeks, and waffles will be among several additions to the breakfast menu after Christmas break. 
These plans follow those made over the fall break, in which selections at the "Home­style" and "Hot Spot" lines will be changed twice per week and new items will be added to the menus at Marketplace, Fiesta Grande, and Blue and Gold Grill. 
Also, Mr. Pibb brand soft drink will be added to the bev­erage line. No beverages will be replaced by the addition of Mr. Pibb, Riggs said. 
"Every time we have a break, we look at what changes need to be made," Riggs said. "We implement what we can when we're open, but it is easier over breaks." 
According to David Pren­tkowski, director of food ser­vices, the decision to make changes at North Dining Hall was made prior to the begin­ning of the school year. 
"It was always part of the plan to begin to add more vari­ety to the food after the first half of the semester," he said. 
The changes implemented were based on the surveys and 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
The Ghosts of Notre Dame 
Trick-or-Treaters like Terry and Sheena from the Boys and Girls Club of South Bend visited Pangborn Hall for Halloween last night to fill up on sweet goodies. 
comment cards that students filled out prior to break, Pren­tkowski and Riggs said. 
"The surveys are something that we have done for years," Prentkowski said. "We get a lot of information that we can uti­lize in the future." 
Riggs estimated that about 80% of students' suggestions are usually implemented. 
"For example, the bagels that we added this year were one of the things that we took directly from the comment cards," she said. 
The food service decides which suggestions to utilize based on their popularity, ac­cording to Riggs. 
"We look for things that show up at least more than once," she added. "The suggestions that we can't use are the ones that ask for so much variety. We don't have room for an un­limited number of such things as salad dressings." 

About a dozen people -the nine managers at North Dining Hall and several student man­agers -were involved in the decisions made over fall break, according to Riggs. 
At South Dining Hall, no im­mediate major changes are be­ing discussed, according to Prentkowski, but renovations may eventually be made in an­ticipation of the opening of Marilyn M. Keough Hall and O'Neill Family Hall on the south side of campus in the fall of 1996. 
One aspect of the possible renovation may include the closing of the Oak Room cafe-
see CHANGES I page 4 


Commuter plane crash kills 68 south of Gary 
Associated Press 
ROSELAWN, Ind. 
An American Eagle com­muter plane crashed Monday in a cornfield in northwest Indi­ana during a driving rainstorm, killing all 68 people aboard. 
Flight 4184 from Indianapolis to Chicago went down 30 miles south of Gary at about 4 p.m., the Federal Aviation Adminis­tration said. 
The heavy rain forced authorities to quickly call off the search of the area until Tuesday. 
American Eagle would not speculate on the possible cause of the crash, airline spokes­woman Debbie Weathers said. State police said there were no survivors, according to the FAA. 
"Debris was so scattered, you really couldn't tell if there was an airplane out there," said Michael Schwanke, a reporter with WLQI radio in Rensselaer who was at the site. 
"People around the area were telling me that there was just nothing left," he said. 
The plane was descending from an altitude of 10,000 feet to 8,000 feet when it disap­peared from radar screens at Chicago's O'Hare Airport, said Don Zochert with the FAA. 

The plane had been circling in a holding pattern before it began its descent, said Tim Smith, a spokesman for Ameri­can Eagle. 
People on the scene said there was driving rain at the time of the crash and that it was too dark to see much in the area. Winds were gusting up to 49 mph in Gary, Ind., the clos­est reporting station, the Na­tional Weather Service said. 
Bob Stone, a hunter, said he heard the plane's engines just before the crash. 
"I could here a motor wind­ing out and it sounded like thunder and then there was a crash and I didn't hear any­thing else," Stone said. 
Kathy Philpot, a spokes­woman for the Lake County coroner's office, said workers were told to call off the search for bodies and return to the scene Tuesday. 
Jasper County Sheriff Steve Reames said the Newton County sheriff's department had set up a command post near the crash site. 
dent. 
Asher countered the prosecu­tion's opening by maintaining that Rita did nothing wrong. He said the accident was not a hit and run accident in the usual sense of the term because Rita and his passengers did not realize they had hit anything. 
"Rita was not trying to run from anything," Asher said. 
Asher said the Rita did not realize anything serious had happened until he was in better light and saw the radial, spider web-like cracks on the side of his car's windshield. 
Upon noticing the cracks, Rita parked his car and returned to his apartment where he was later arrested by police. Rita's friends called police and noti­
see TRIAL I page 4 

Plans change for Farley dance 
By LIZ FORAN Assistant News Editor 
Formal plans for Farley Hall have been altered in light of the recent controversy con­cerning hall notes distributed in Carroll Hall. 
Farley was scheduled to hold its semester formal with Carroll on November 11, but changed those plans on October 13, when an article appeared in The Observer con­cerning degrading attitudes on campus towards women. 
Upon reading what had been posted in Carroll Hall, several Farley women approached their resident assistant at a meeting and demanded that the formal be held with a dif­ferent men's dorm, according to Farley Hall Co-President Beth Perretta. 
"A section of girls said that they would boycott the dance if we held it with Carroll," she said. 
Carroll Co-President Dave Lillis said that the residents of Carroll Hall "feel bad about what happened. 
"We would have liked to have gone to Farley and apologized, like we apologized at HPC (Hall Presidents Council)," he said. "We would have liked to explain ourselves, but we knew it was inevitable (that the dance would be canceled)." 
Lillis and the other co-presi­dent Gary Girzadas had pub­licly apologized and explained the dorm's stance toward the offensive remarks in a letter to the editor published in The Ob­server on October 14. The let­ter stated the notes were writ­ten by a couple of individuals, and "the parties involved were reprimanded and notified such intolerable statements could result in dismissal." 
"Hopefully something good will come out of what hap­pened," Lillis added. "It's a shame that it took something like this to make people realize we had a problem on this cam­pus." 
see FARLEY I page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, November I, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



What happens when we still want the candy 

Who can forget the anticipation, the prepara­tion, and the adrenaline rush of taking the frrst house on Halloween? Most likely it was a pre­carousing sugar rush causing the jumpy nerves, a childhood version of a 4:30a.m. Vivarin over­dose in LaFortune's 24­
hour lounge. Perhaps Viewpoint Editor the only thing greater 
than the first house was spreading the spoils of the evening all over the living room floor. Always a glorious experience. 
But Sweet-Tart highs and Milk Dud lows are only one facet of this ghoulish night. The cos­tume is everything. I remember a friend's older brother going as the Headless Horseman, complete with a pumpkin and black horse. Though he really started to smell by the end of the evening, he succeeded in startling every ghost and goblin on Westin Road-they thought he had actually been decapitated! 
Being on the tail end of Generation X, my costume experience evolved from Strawberry Short Cake and the Incredible Hulk to Princess Leia and Chewbacca to Ninja Turtles and Ghostbusters to the Little Mermaid and Aladdin to now Power Rangers and Simba from "The Lion King." I have no idea what a Mighty Morphin Power Ranger is, though I'm told they are like benevolent warriors with thyroid problems. Despite every fad, the key to a great costume has always been the dirt factor-the filthier the better. Mechanics, construction workers, cavemen, dirt-bike rac­ers, adventurers ala Indiana Jones, and sol­diers were always the best costumes because as the night wore on and exhaustion set in­though you would never concede that-your look became even more complete. 
Yet Halloween is one of those enigmatic, elusive holidays like Easter and Christmas. Just as no one quite knows the age at which you can get away with still believing in Santa Claus or the Easter Bunny-or pretending to believe in them-no one knows the maximum age at which kids can still go trick or treating without abusing the system. This is a very serious problem. It becomes the frrst of life's many challenges, particularly when the need for a pre-teen to wear make-up and get her ears pierced conflicts with the need to go to the elementary school carnival. Moreover it represents the cusp of puberty, that in­between age when nothing is right and the only thing left to do will be inherently obnox­ious. 
You become too cool to go out and beg for junk food so you egg the cars and toilet paper the homes of your eighth grade teachers instead; you now live for stink bombs. However, this period is short-lived and quick­ly replaced by girl-boy parties which ultimate­ly evolve into drunken evenings of teenage debauchery. Then in college, you decide to relive those evenings of drunken debauchery which only lead to Vivarin overdoses the fol­lowing morning. 
Halloween is a sad cycle, ending the same way it started-with racing nerves and an adrenaline rush. The funny thing is, we still dress up and get sick on candy. Ain't it great? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News Lab Tech David Ring Eric Ruethling Edward Imbus Production Sports Whitney Sheets 
Tim Sherman Belle Bautista Dave Treacy Accent Viewpoint Jenny Gumzelman 
Krista Nannery Lisa Monaco Rae Sikula Graphics Tom Roland 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Assaqated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Suzy Fry 

• WuRto At A GtANGE 
EU, East Europeans pave way for prospective membership 
The former communist countries of Eastern Europe could begin the process of joining the European Union by 1996 under a system agreed to Monday at a meeting of foreign ministers from 22 nations. 
The plan calls for consultations on for­eign affairs, justice, finance and other issues central to membership negotiations. 
The EU also agreed to form a task force to make it easier for prospective members to streamline their laws with EU require­ments. The EU Commission will draft a list of legal and judicial targets that newcomers must meet before they can join. 
"The challenge is enormous," said German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel. 
In return, the EU called for closer cooper­ation between the aspiring members and tougher action against international crime and drug trafficking, which spills over from the east into western Europe. 
Actual membership talks then could start in two years. 
Germany has been at the vanguard of the campaign to draw the East European nations into the EU, and many regard the meeting as a sign of growing German domi­nance. Expanding membership to the East would make Berlin the geographical and political center of the EU at the expense of France. 
Germany fears Eastern Europe could be destabilized without assistance from the political and trading bloc. 
underwear. 
conditions and high temperatures 
' ''' ' 
OHIO 
llndianapoli3 49o I 
• 
~ ~ 
''''' 
' ' '' '
• 
''''' 
Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Cl1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 



European Union 
from six former Communist nations to discuss admission requirements and aid. 
European Union countries New EU countries (as of 1995) 
G) Portugal 0 Netherlands 0 Austria 
® Ireland ® Luxembourg 8 Finland Countries Interested
® United Kingdom ® Denmark Q Norway 
In EU membership0 France @) Germany 8 Sweden : e Bulgaria
® Spain @ Italy .• Romania 
APIWm. J. Castello 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 1. 30s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
.......................................... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY @ 1994 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
Hess"'L @ ES1 [nJ 1:2] I2J § 1) tJ. U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIs Associafed Press 
Low-weight burger fines dropped 
PHILADELPHIA 
Philadelphia is dropping its beef against Wendy's, and a $96,000 fine, but doesn't want to find any more under­weight burgers. City inspectors last week weighed a sampling of 24 uncooked patties at a North Philadelphia Wendy's and 22 weren't quarter-pounders as advertised. Some were as much as a quarter-ounce light. Inspectors seized the entire batch of 960 patties and fined the Dublin, Ohio-based chain $100 a burger. Antico said fed­eral weights-and-measures officials will work with Wendy's supplier, Devault Packing Co., to devise a more accurate way to measure the meat. The city gave the parties 90 days to find a solution. Antico said he was not sure what would happen if the companies did not remedy the problem. 
Tailhook victim gets $6.7 million 
lAS VEGAS 
The Las Vegas Hilton and its parent company were ordered Monday to pay $5 million in punitive damages for failing to protect a former Navy lieutenant from drunken aviators at the 1991 Tailhook convention. The federal jury's ruling brings Paula Coughlin's total award to $6.7 million. A Pentagon report said 83 women were assaulted or molested at the convention. Coughlin settled for an undisclosed amount with the Tailhook Association before the trial started. The jury awarded Coughlin $1.7 million in compensatory damages Friday, ruling that the Hilton failed to provide adequate security at the conven­tion. Coughlin had testified that she was trapped in the hotel's third-floor hallway one night during the conven­tion by a group of men who shoved their hands down her bra and tried to reach up her skirt and pull off her 
Shakur sentenced for concert assault 
LANSING, Mich. 

Rapper Tupac Shakur was sentenced Monday to 30 days in jail for trying to hit a man with a baseball bat during a melee at a 1993 concert. Circuit Court Judge Lawrence Glazer suspended 20 days of the sentence, and ordered Shakur to serve the time after appearing in New York to answer unrelated criminal charges. Shakur, who has appeared in the movies "Poetic Justice" and "Juice," also was ordered to perform 35 hours of community ser­vice. The rapper had pleaded guilty to the misdemeanor in September and faced up to 90 days in jail. Prosecutors said Shakur triggered a near-riot during his concert at Michigan State University by throwing a microphone on the stage that belonged to another rapper. Shakur's lawyer argued that the other rapper provoked the fight. 
Burning leaves cause of haze, smell 
NOTRE DAME 

The smoky haze and its noticeable smell that settled on South Bend and the University yesterday was not due to any major fires, according to sources at the Notre Dame Fire Department. The smoke and stench were caused, rather, by "everyone and their mother" burning leaves throughout Sunday. Combined with the climate changes, especially the heavier barometric pressure, the smoke settled towards the ground. The higher air pressure also forced down smokestack emissions into the city. The total effect of the various fires posed no threats to those outside or any property, only mild annoyance, but did cause for extremely low visibility of parts of the Indiana Tollroad and Route 31. 

Atlanta  65  38  Dallas  79  53  New Orleans 73  48  
Baltimore  56  46  Denver  58  38  New York  58  53  
Boston  58  58  Los Angeles 7 4  52  Philadelphia 57  53  
Chicago  60  33  Miami  82  67  Phoenix  84  61  
Columbus  54  35  Minneapolis 57  37  St. Louis  71  47  

Tuesday, November 1, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS page3 
• BOARD OF GOVERNANCE • STUDENT ACTIVITES BOARD 


Students to attend conference Good Morning America 
By EMILY RUFFNER 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance passed a funding request to help send two Saint Mary's students to the 2nd annual Collegiate Leadership Network Conference sponsored by the National Hispanic Institute. The conference, scheduled for February of 1995, will be held at the Uni­versity of Texas at El Paso, and BOG will pay for the students' airfare. 
The program is to help form a network of Hispanic students at the college level. The two repre-sentatives will help en­courage involvement and awareness of the Latina com­munity on Saint Mary's cam­pus. 
Sending students from Saint Mary's benefits the entire cam­pus in ways such as creating student campus organizations better equipped to address the needs of the Latina campus population, connections to the Latino business community, ties to graduate schools, and connections to a support net­work for Latino students throughout the United States. There are currently 60 Hispanic students on campus. 
BOG also approved funding $5000 toward the Play of the Mind Conference to be held sec­ond semester. This conference is a weekend to explore inter­esting issues with faculty and students from other women's colleges. This year, about six colleges will be invited to dis­cuss a theme relating to diver­sity of different campus cul­tures. This conference involves approximately 150 Saint Mary's students. 
Results from the Haggar Renovation Survey were also tallied. Only 5% respondants think of Haggar as a ."Student Social Space." According to the survey, students feel not enough is offered at Haggar to make it appear social. The pri­mary change hoped to be seen is the installation of cable. 
42% voted "variety of food" as the number one way to improve the Snack Bar. 

Just 2 more days, ladies and gentlepersons, until the long awaited, never anticipated, laugh 'til you're constipated SEINFEST '94!! MC'ed by chronic funny guy, Taylor Mason, this 1st annual student comedy talent show will make you laugh. It1l make you cry. It won't, however, make you hurl. 
And the best part about it, besides the uproarious entertainment, is that it costs a BUCK. It'll cost you that one buck that you'd probably waste on a soda, leaving you with forty cents to spare, which can only buy you a pack ofgum anyway. So come, Novemeber 3rd, to 
the LaFortune Ballroom at 8:00 PM to laugh at your fellow m~. 
This has been a paid service message from: 




Bai Ju's 
•

g1ves you something to cheer about! 
/ 
~~ 
}/­
filming this afternoon 
By BECKY MAYERNIK 
News Writer 

The board discussed future plans for SAB. 
The filming of a human "150" for Good Morning America, in honor of Saint Mary's sesqui­centennial, will take place today at 2:45 pm outside of LeMans, according to SAB coordinator Audrey Comrie. It will air in December. The rain date for the filming is this Thursday, November 3, at the same time. 
David Harris, an acoustic gui­tar player in the community, will be performing at Dal­loway's on Wednesday, November 16, from 7-11 pm. 
There will be a Guatemalan Sale in the LeMans lobby dur­ing the week of November 14­18, during which the purchase of artifacts from Guatemala will be available. 
SAB will sponsor a Giving Tree this holiday season through the Children's Day Treatment Program at Madison Center. The tree will be in Haggar after Thanksgiving. 
A location change for the "Greg Brady" actor Barry Williams is being discussed. Williams is scheduled to appear on March 30 in Carroll Audito­rium. It is possible that the event will be moved from Carroll, which seats 300, to O'Loughlin, which would seat 1200. 
This weekend's movie will be "Philadelphia," which will be playing in Carroll Auditorium at 7 and 9:30pm for $2. 

Happy Birth Nancy! 

You'll always be my liWe (\irl. Love. 

Delivery Hours 4:30-Midnigh7Daysa Wee ($8.00 minimum 
This Week' 
SpecialVegetaFried R 
$2. 



271·01 

page4 

Trial 
continued from page 1 
fled them of the accident. 

Defense lawyer Asher also argued that Fox and her friends should not have been walking in the road on a foggy, rainy night with such poor visibility. 
Both lawyers have continued to develop their case in testi­mony from witnesses. 
On Friday, two police officers testified for the prosecution that Rita expressed shock when he was arrested that his friends had called the police. Mishawaka police officer Ken­neth Witkowski testified that Rita said, ''I'm stunned that my friends would turn me in." 
Rita made this statement moments after St. Joseph County police Cpl. James Chamberlain entered Rita's room and woke him up. 
Both Chamberlain and Witkowski testified that their investigation of the accident lead them to Rita's University Park apartment. When no one answered the door, friends let police in through an unlocked door and pointed out Rita's up­stairs bedroom. 
Witkowski said Chamberlain knocked loudly and identified the officers as policemen. Chamberlain testified that when he woke up Rita, the sus­pect indicated he thought he knew the reason for the police's visit. 
Then Rita said "I can't believe my friends turned me in," Chamberlain said. 
Defense attorney Asher at­tempted to discredit Chamber­lain because he did not include Rita's statement in his written reports on the investigation. Asher expressed surprise at the lack of detail in Chamberlain's report and information that ap­peared later but was not in­cluded initially. 
Chamberlain said he told Barnes about Rita's comment in a December conference. Witkowski included the state­ment in his report. 
Asher also assailed Chamber­lain's report on Rita's arrest for drunken driving. Chamberlain identified only one physical symptom, the odor of alcohol. 
On Monday, a couple testified that they saw an oncoming car swerve just before they found a body in Douglas Road on November 13, 1993. Barbara Kellogg and her boyfriend Ronald Truhler, said they were driving east bound on Douglas when they noticed the head­lights of a westbound car. 
Kellogg said she saw a group on the side of the road and no­ticed the proximity of the west­bound car. She said she ex­claimed "Someone's going to get hit." 
Kellogg said she saw the car veer across the center line and return to the right side of the road. As the car drove by, she noticed one of the car's pop up headlights was pointing straight up. 
Truhler testified that he did not have any trouble seeing the pedestrian group. "I saw two with white clothing, that caught my eye, " he said. 
Despite the fact that both wit­nesses testified they had no trouble seeing the group at road's shoulder, neither saw the car in question, which they identified as a 1987 Honda Ac­cord, hit Fox. 
Notre Dame graduate Dan Policy was in town for the game and walking with back to cam­pus when he heard a noise. 
"I heard a thud and saw a dark form and a car went 

The Observer • NEWS 
back," Policy testified. "I saw the brake lights, then the car took off and turned on Indiana 23," Policy said. 
After the crash, the group at­tempted to put their jackets over Fox, while Truhler, who had blocked traffic in both di­rections with his car, attempted to administer first aid, Policy said. 
NOTRE DAME FORUM ON 
ACADEMIC LIFE 
"Notre Dame's Development as a University: A Historical Perspective" 
speaker: Prof. Philip Gleason Department of History 
Respondent: Prof. John Robinson Law School 
Wednesday, November 2 7:30p.m. CCE Auditorium 
Sponsored by the Faculty Senate All are welcome 





F:ree Movies! 
Student Activities presents an evening of: 
Dinosaurs 
Keenan Hall instead. 

Farley 

Carroll's attempts to resched­ule have been unsuccessful socontinued from page 1 far due to difficulty in obtaining 70 percent attendance for a
Farley will still have their for­mal on November 11, but with dance on a future weekend. 

Changes 
continued from page 1 
teria, Prentkowski said. 

"We have to consider the fact that the dining hall may need to be expanded to accommodate the increasing number of stu­dents on that side of campus," he said. 
The closing of the Oak Room would provide the necessary space. 
"However, the Oak Room won't be eliminated without taking into consideration its current customer following," he added. 
No timetable on possible ren­ovations has yet been set. 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
• 
FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 

• 
TWO BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR AND RANGE 

• 
WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

•GAS 
HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT • 24-HOUR MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 232-8256 
8:00 PM ·The Land Before Time 
9:15 PM  and genies, Aladdin  
10:45 PM  dwarfs and meanies, Snow White  
12:15 AM  virtue, vice An American Tale  
and friendly mice.  

The LaFortune Ballroom F1•iday., November 4th 
11\~~ TOfCOKN! 

FREE sOFT DlliNISi 


Tuesday, November 1, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Devil's night haunts Detroit 
By KELLY ANDERSON 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

Detroit Mayor Dennis Archer rushed from fire to fire trying to figure out why the city's three-year record of stemming Devil's Night arsons was going up in smoke. 
In abandoned buildings, va­cant lots, and trash bins across the city's east side, scores of fires vexed police and firefight­ers Sunday night. One small child died of smoke inhalation, and at least four other people were injured. 
Detroit's fire chief said the number of arsons was signifi­cantly higher than normal. An official count was expected later today. 
"I just have a nagging anger when I see one fire," Archer told reporters. 
Many residents claimed a 




The Obse,'tve,r 
News DepartmentWe are looking for energetic, motivated people to help cover campus news and events. We currently have openings in several positions, including: 
Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor Business Editor 
If interested, please submit a short personal statement noting your experience to News Editor Dave Tyler by Thursday, November 3. Call Dave at 1-5323 with any questions. 
lower number of volunteer pa-· trois contributed to. the resur­gence of the dangerous Hal­loween Eve tradition. In Cam­den, N.J., which also has a his­tory of Oct. 30 arsons, hun­dreds of volunteers joined po­lice patrols and were credited with keeping arsons down. 
"I don't see nearly the num­ber of volunteers out here as I did last year. It don't make no sense," said Emma Carty, 70, watching in disgust from her porch as flames took over an abandoned house nearby. 
About 40,000 volunteers pa­trolled throughout Detroit last year to keep the number of frres down. An estimated 8,000 volunteers patrolled the streets Sunday night. 
Archer, who took office in January, had asked young peo­ple ages 17 and under to obey a 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew on Hai­loween weekend, and said the night should be called Pre-Hal­loween instead of Devil's Night, which he found too negative. Police reported 176 curfew vio­lators as of midnight Sunday. 
"The new administration thought they could ignore or downplay Devil's Night," Ernestine Gordon, founder of the City Airport Renaissance Association, told the Detroit Free Press. 
Pope's new cardinals reflect conservative views 
By VICTOR SIMPSON 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 

Pope Paul VI reached out during the 1960s and 1970s to make the College of Cardinals a truly international body. Now Pope John Paul II has com­pleted the task. 
In naming 30 new cardi­nals Sunday, John Paul gave some countries their first "red hats" ever and fur­


ther dimin-Pope John ished the Paulll influence of Italians in the body that elects 
popes. 
The Polish-born John Paul was the first non-Italian pope in 455 years, and any hopes harbored by Italians of regain­ing the papacy appear to have been dealt a blow. 
As he told a crowd in St. Pe­ter's Square, the new cardinals from 24 countries "reflect in a significant way the universality of the church." 
A record 62 countries are now represented in the College of Cardinals. Pope Paul VI, who led the church from 1963-78, expanded the representation in the college to 31 countries. 
In naming cardinals for the sixth time since assuming the papacy 16 years ago, John Paul has clearly put his stamp on the body that will guide the church into the next century and elect the next pope. 
With the 7 4-year-old pontiff showing signs of frailty and poor health, Vatican officials have begun openly speculating on possible successors and the new nominations have opened the way to a new list of "papa­bile," or potential candidates. 

When the new cardinals are installed Nov. 26, John Paul will have appointed 100 of the 120 red hats under the age of 
80. Only cardinals under 80 years old are eligible to vote for a pope. 
This would suggest the pope has set the stage for electing a like-minded conservative who would keep up church opposi­tion to contraception, abortion and women priests -positions alienating many liberal Catholics. 
As a cleric who stood up to Communism in his homeland before the Soviet empire col­lapsed, he was clearly reward­ing others who had taken risks. 
Among those named by the pope were a 91-year-old Alba­nian priest imprisoned for 37 years under the regime of En­ver Hoxha; an archbishop from Belarus who spent 10 years in Soviet prison camps and the archbishop of Prague, who was harassed by Czech police under Communism. 
The pope was also sending a message of support for Chris­tians living under Communist rule by naming cardinals from Cuba and Vietnam and for the besieged people in Sarajevo, Bosnia-Herzegovina, by his ap­pointment of Archbishop Vinko Puljic, at 49 the youngest of the group. 
free transportation 
and admission 


MINORITY 
for~ln~~~o;~~ 
seniors!


CAREER 

FORUMe /Ja~~~:?~ 7 
SPONSORED BY Andersen Consulting Arthur Andersen 
HewittAssociates Leo Burnett Company, Inc. PARTIAL LIST OF EMPLOYERS 
Armour Swift -Eckrich· Boston Consulting Group Capital Group Chubb Grp. of Insurance Co. Citibank Comerica Inc. Defense Intelligence Agency Ernst & Young Mgt. Consulting Fidelity Investments Florida Power & Light Goldman, Sachs & Co. Harris Bankcorp Merrill lynch Nat'! Westminster Bancorp Inc. Northern Trust Company Northern Illinois Gas Reuters Smith Kline Beecham Swiss Bank Corporation Towers Perrin 
U.S. Navy 
PLUS MANY MORE!! 

ft I A ,A 
9 A 

""' '-"" VI-' ~ 
Th Chi M . 
e cago arnott Downtown 
TO REGISTER and be 
eligible for INTERVIEWS 
sena or fax your resume to 
Crimson & Brown Associates, Inc. 1770 Massachusetts Ave., Suite 332 Cambridge, MA 02140 1EL 617.868.0181-FAX617.868.0187 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE EXTENDED TO: November 11 
Write ypur top, 3 industry preferences on the back of your resume 
Meet and Interview with leading employers! 
Deadline Extended -Register Now! 
~ 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, November 1, 1994 
Pennsylvania Avenue may close 
ByTOMRAUM Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
As the sidewalk fronting the White House was reopened Monday after a gunman fired up to 30 shots from it at the mansion, the government was taking a new look at possibly closing it permanently. 
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said prohibiting vehicle and pedestrian traffic on the 1600 block of Pennsylvania Av­enue or stationing more guards on the sidewalks were among options being studied to in­crease security in the wake of the weekend shooting. 
Bentsen also announced a panel of outside experts to make suggestions in the after­math of the shooting incident. He said a review-already un­der way after last month's crash of a small plane on the White House grounds -would be completed by mid-January. 
"The review will examine whatever means might be available -including state-of­the-art technology -to better protect the White House and our national leaders," Bentsen said. 
He was asked if part of the recommendations would in­clude urging the president ­who likes to jog near the White House and plunge into crowds as he travels -to change his own habits. 
"As far as telling the presi­dent he has to change his per­sonal habits, we'll leave that up to you," he told reporters. "It's his decision. But obviously I'm sure he'll give. some considera­tion to this." 
Bentsen spoke in the White House briefing room, where in­vestigators spent much of the day examining, measuring and photographing a window that 
SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book Notre Dame Football Today, reg. $4995 , now just $3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on ND football." A must for every student and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 
(219)634.. 1740 


London $438* Paris $518* Tel Aviv $770* Mexico City . $198* Tokyo $845* Bangkok $935* 

Forcsere round~ from Chlca<!O. Rdrld!onsi!PP~. 
ta<os ere not inCluded end lares ere subject to chef19e. c.n lor other wo~ dullnotions. 


Couna1 Travel 
1153 ...._ Dearborn Chicago, IL 60610 

-312•951•0585 
Call for a FREE Student Travels magazine! 
was broken in Saturday's fusil­lade. 
Bentsen also defended the Secret Service -an agency he oversees -for not firing at the gunman who shot through an iron fence and sprayed the White House and grounds with bullets. 
"The last thing I would want to see was someone firing weapons in a crowd like that," he said. As to the fact that by­standers, not agents or police, brought the gunman to the ground, he said: "The civilians were standing right beside him. I understand that." 
White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers said Clinton hoped to personally thank the two men who tackled the gun­man: Harry Rakosky, 34, of San Antonio, Texas, and Ken Davis, 24, of Hagerstown, Md. "He definitely will want to get in touch with them ... one way or the other," she said. 
Clinton was in the residence part of the White House at· the time of the gunfire and "was never in danger," Bentsen said. 
He said the new advisory panel would be headed by Ron Noble, undersecretary of the Treasury for enforcement, but otherwise would be made up of outside experts. 

It will include Robert Car­swell, a former deputy Trea­sury secretary; former FBI Di­rector William Webster; former Transportation Secretary William Coleman; former En­ergy Secretary Charles Duncan; former Joint Chiefs Chairman David Jones, and Dr. Judith Rodin, a psychologist and pres­ident of th,e University of Penn­sylvania. 
Asked about closing Pennsyl­vania Avenue in front of the White House to both cars and pedestrian traffic, something the Secret Service in the past has suggested, Bentsen said "those options are being exam­ined." 
However, he also seemed to suggest that a partial closing of the street is a more likely out­come, calling an "overstate­ment" suggestions that the entire street near the White be blocked. 
Bentsen said the review will also look into the possibility of stationing more uniformed guards outside the gate on the sidewalk. He said it is impor­tant to balance the rival goals of more security and "the need to keep the White House open and accessible to the public." 
White House security 

must pass through metal detectors. Staff members, press, etc., have special entrances. Visitors must pass security checks. Dogs check every vehicle that enters the grounds, sniffing for bombs. 
fence separates the grounds from the sidewalk. But people often preps up against the fence to see the White House. Motion sensors and cameras detect intruders, and guards patrol the grounds. 

WARNING: Dialing Zero to Call Your Family Collect Can Be Hazardous to Their Wealth. 

1-800-COLLECT ® 
Dial it instead ol"0"and save them up to 44o/o. 
stationed on the rooftop. Airspace around downtown Washington, D.C., is restricted. Streets are blocked to traffic when the presidenrs motorcade passes. The presidenrs path in and out of the White House is frequently varied. 

would like to expand security perimeters, perhaps blocking off Pennsylvania Avenue to traffic. Clinton resists this option, fearing the White House will be cut off from the American public. 
AP/Karl 

,~--~----~~ 



VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, November 1, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucos Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Ac.,.,nt Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either instirution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and w all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax • 631-6927 

Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail General Information 631-7471 Unix 
• 

Warning: The following article may offend historical revisionist. sacrilegious individuals who are obsessed with the advancement of the politically correct movement; in which case it will cer­tainly offend the authors of the new politically correct Bible. 
"St. Augustine described the nature of God as a circle whose centre was every­where. and its circumference nowhere" (R.W.Emerson). In the most profound and ubiquitous sense -in a manner in which we cannot comprehend -God is everywhere. This commonly accepted notion is no longer true. God is now allowed everywhere except the new 

D.J. 
Sarafa 

"politically correct" Bible which incorpo­rates gender inclusive language into the sacred document. God cannot be there, however, because He made the mistake of revealing Himself to us in the mascu­line gender. 
On Oct. 7, 1994 an article appeared in this paper explicating the text of the "New Testament of the Inclusive Language Bible". The new bible changes phrases such as "Father" to "Heavenly Parent", "Brethren" to "Believers". "Kingdom" to "Realm" and "Son of Man" to "Child of Humanity". The Bible was complied by Chuck Stiles, who received help from over 50 "scholars", and edited by Saint Mary's History Professor Cyriac Pullapilly. Because the critique in the original article was entirely too kind in its criticism of this aberration, I must proffer my own statement of its faults. 
The authors argue the Bible must be updated to reflect the social values of our time, rather than those of the patri­archal society within which it was writ­
•DOONESBURY 
WUL., {f}/j}NU., 84­
qltAUY 7H& FILB3 
fflJM YOUR.~ 
910WYOU mew ;oM&Of raJR.PtO­ptt IIJa<E 9.bPEClElJ 
PRI.i37RAffl~. 
Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
ten. BJlt the Bible is already adapted to modern times by a priest who interprets the reading in the homily, explaining to us how it applies to our everyday lives. By changing phrases in the Bible the authors are substituting their judgment for the judgment of priests, and their be­liefs for the beliefs of Jesus Christ, through Whom God spoke vicariously. 
God chose to reveal himself to us as the "Father" for reasons that we do not, and cannot know for certain. The authors, however, talk of the nature of God in certain terms when they state that "God does not have a gender". While this is probably true, it is also true that God could have revealed Himself as a genderless being, an ambiguous entity, or simply as a force beyond our compre­hension -but He chose to reveal Himself as the "Father". He may have done so to make Himself more amiable and accessible to His followers or to make His affection and forgiveness as real as that of an actual person; a gen­derless God certainly seems more dis­tant from us because it is more distant from our comprehension. And although we do view God as entity beyond our comprehension in some respects, we also view Him as a human being in oth­ers. By changing the "gender" of God the authors are wrongfully distorting His image, which is a fundamental element of our perception of His nature as a benign and loving "Father". 
Almost more frightening than this reli­gious consequence is the historical con­sequence that accompanies it. By re­writing the Bible the authors have engaged in a process known as his tori­cal revisionism. Changing phrases such as "Father" to "Heavenly Parent" they are altering words purported to have been actually spoken by Jesus, that is, the are changing historical facts. While the new Bible is said to be appropriate for "regular use", Pullapilly himself con­cedes that "as a study of history, you should go to the source material." The source material he is referring to are previous translations of the Bible which are true to the actual text. Inherent in this admission is the subtle admission that the politically correct Bible is not historically accurate; for if it was, one would not need to read earlier editions when studying history. 

Unfortunately if the politically correct Bible becomes commonly accepted it 
would effectively deny later generations the true translation, and unlike us, they may never know how the original trans­lation read. More potential harm lies in the possibility that scholars will subse­quently revise the politically correct edi­tion to update it according 'to the social values of a different time, and another generation will revise, and so on. Allowing these seemingly cosmetic changes now may justify attempts to make more severe changes in the future. By making these changes in the name of serving society in which we cur­rently live, these "scholars" are denying 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
AS5UMINGI READMY IFA MAN'S A TRUE 0/A/N R/..£6. OR. 7HAT PATRJ(JT, a/IUING 7V !XJ 7H&Ytl£R£N'TP/.AN1W WHATIT TAKE.S INI?&­

.. 9'1MYliNEMI~. 8l7li3< ffl\1~ OFFR&BXJM,!Afl/i:T WAY, lETME 7lU. '1W H& {)()£5 ON 711& ~Ill& 15 IAJH&R& I aJMEWT H/5BU5/N£SS.' AI<& YOU ON 7Hit3... r-7.c--mt WITH MEH&RE 7 
their obligations to ancestors who pre­ceded us, and generations that will suc­ceed ours. 
We have a duty to pass on certain parts of the world the way we have been given them because we are participants in "a partnership not only between those who are living, but between those who are living, those who are dead, and those who are unborn" (Edmund Burke). By altering the Bible in an attempt to serve our current social values these authors are neglecting their obligations to other generations, both past and future. While the politically correct movement is, no doubt, utilized appro­priately to change many facets of our world, it should not be used to alter those portions of history that we know are sacred and divinely inspired. 
D.J. Sarafa is a first year graduate student in law. 
r------------------------------, 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''It's a great }ob for deviant human beings." 
-Fred Grandy, (R-Iowa) On serving in Congress 


ACCE-NT 
---
---------·---------------~-­
pageS Tuesday, November 1, 1994 
Appalachia relaxing as well as rewarding 

By EDWARD IMBUS Accent Writer 
Over fall break most students left for home to relax after a difficult time with midterm exams. Others stayed on campus, trying to get ahead in their studies, or sim­ply catch up. Another group of students, however, put both relaxation and studies on hold to instead provide a week of volun­teer service to the rural poor of the Ap­palachia region. 
Over a hundred students trekked out to twelve different sites throughout the Appalachia mountains determined to make a difference, even if but a small one, for the better during their "week off." 
These students were participating in the Appalachia Seminar, a single credit, pass­fail theology class sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. For the course, stu­dents are required to go to lectures before and after their week away, topped off by either a special project or five page reflec­tion paper. 
The initial lectures, however, were simply that: basic preparation, which was by no means a proper substitute for the ex­perience the students would find on the mountains. 
The Appalachia Seminar, since its begin­ning several years before, has been highly organized, sending students to organiza­tions, most religious-based, to allow the students to understand the problems of the rural poor, rather than simply observing 
SMC students traver to West Virginia to serve 
By PATTI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
They went with the intention to serve and to give. They returned feeling like they received more than they gave. Over fall break, six Saint Mary's students traveled to Wheeling, West Virginia to volunteer their services for the underprivileged people of the area for a second consecutive year. 
Katie Donovan, a Senior Nursing major, said that in her work, she's seen some patients turned away because they couldn't afford health care. "Going to West Virginia over break was my way of taking care of those who were turned away. I wanted to do some­thing for the people who are often forgotten." So she made the trip for the second year. 
Ella Harmeyer, Assistant Professor, Nursing, accompa­nied the Saint Mary's women on the trip, which consisted of three main service projects. "We spent time at the Catholic Charities Neighborhood Center where we helped to take care of the homeless and the under­privileged. We also performed various health services, such as blood pressure screening and flu shot distribution." said Harmeyer. 
Though four nursing majors went to Wheeling, the nursing major was not a requirement to attend. Two students who are not nursing majors also went to provide their services, which included visiting with the peo­ple and aiding in feeding the people. "This is not just a pro­ject for nursing majors. Anyone is welcome and encour­age to help," added Harmeyer. 
The group of six students also made visits to the homes of the sick in cooperation with the Visiting Nurses Association. 
Another part of the five day trip was the. work done at the Icenhower Home. This is a home for the mentally handi­capped. "Again, we performed health services, visited with the people, and even played BINGO," said Harmeyer. 
them. 

Under the auspices of the Christian Appalachia Project (CAP) of south central Kentucky, a group of eight students were charged with assisting in renovating two extremely old and dilapidated houses. CAP had already planned the needed structural changes; they both needed new roofs to replace the weak and leaky ones in place before the wet autumn and snowy winters came. One of the homes also needed siding to protect its wooden walls from rot. 
Eight people, of whom none knew two others before the seminar started, began the group effort to provide what progress they could to help. The work was difficult, taking lots of time and perspiration, and in most cases precision was a requirement. 
As one of the professional carpenters also on the site said, however, "It's not the work we look forward to; it's the people." Those receiving the help made the long days worth all the time and energy exerted. 
The time was curiously relaxing, with no studies to worry about and the knowledge that the time was not idle. either. At nights, the group would sit around camp­fires, hike to various parts of the pristine countryside, and discuss reactions to what they saw. 
The Appalachia Seminar proved to be a valuable experience for those who went, extolling the values of Our Lady in the midst Of natural beauty all around. It is a Photo courtesy of Kira Hutchinson time made for Notre Dame students, and is Gretchen Stephans and Emily Portune worked not to be missed. in West Virginia for the McDowell Mission. 
"It's easy to forget about how the rest of the world lives when you're away at college," said Donovan. There are many peo­ple who cannot afford medical care. 
Donovan went on to explain that people sometimes over generalize about the homeless, thinking that they are drug addicts or alcoholics who are to blame for their lot in life. This is not true, she explained. 
"They are human beings just like the rest of us. Many of the homeless are people who have lost their jobs or were laid off. They can't afford rent, food, or medical care." 
Sophomore math major Kathy Baumann said, "We went to Wheeling to volunteer our time and services, but the people there kept wanting to help us. They were concerned about whether or not we were com­fortable and they constantly offered us coffee." she said. 
"I challenge students to per­form service projects like this because it makes you realize how fortunate you are. How often do we have to worry about where we will sleep at night? That was one of the major concerns of some of the people I met," Donovan added. 
Harmeyer agreed, "We left appreciating all that we some­times take for granted." 

The Center for Spirituality received a grant which covered travel costs and housing accom­modations for students. Therefore, the money used in West Virginia by this group went solely to provide food, blankets, and clothing for the people. 
"We are especially grateful to SURV, who provided us with money to help the people and to Saint Mary's students in the residence halls who donated money for the people," Donovan said. 
Those who donated should realize that the six who went to West Virginia represented the entire Saint Mary's College community, to which the people of Wheeling are grateful, according to Sister Rose Anne Schultz, C.S.C., Director of Administration and Mission, Center for Spirituality. 
The Center for Spirituality aided several years ago in the formation of small faith com­munities which were founded for the purpose of reflecting on the gospels. These groups are for reflection, not necessarily study. 
Sister Rose Anne said that these groups are motivational. 
"They focus on the gospel. We are called to be Eucharist peo­ple and the Sunday liturgy is not always enough to fulfill us spiritually," she said. As a result, small groups form and meet once a week to reflect on the gospel messages. 
Sister Rose Anne said that we are called to serve. We are called to pray, reflect, share, and act. We act by providing services like those performed in Wheeling, she said. 
She stressed the importance of leadership skill development. "You students are forming the adult Church of the future. We will be looking to you to keep service alive in that Church," Sister Rose Anne added. 
She reminded Saint Mary's students of the College Mission Statement. Part of that state­ment reads: "A Saint Mary's College woman will have the ability to make socially respon­sible choices about the future, will be prepared for roles of leadership and action in the worlds of work, church and community." 
The trip to West Virginia, along with other features offered by the Center for Spirituality, aid in the fulfill­ment of that statement. 
Photo courtesy of Katie Donovan 

These six volunteers visited with the homeless and the underprivileged in West Virginia. 
Task force hits the road 
By SHANNON DUNN 
Accent Writer 
This Fall Break, five mem­bers of the Appalachia Task Force, or the coordinators of the Appalachia Seminar. traveled down into Appalachia to visit the sites where Notre Dame sends its students. This was the first time the Task Force had attempted such a trip. We took off bound for Kentucky, Tennessee, and West Virginia, and managed to make it to nine of the eleven sites that the seminar uti­lizes: Our goals were to become better informed on the specific details of each site and to make sure that the seminar was running smoothly for both the stu­dents and the sites involved. All in all, we far exceeded our goals and we had a fan­tastic time. 
Our agenda was to inter­view the staff members at each site in order to gain a sense of the type of service work the site in involved in, and a sense of the origins and history of each site. In order to best document the information we received, we audio and video taped as much as possible. I was struck by the dedication of the people we interviewed to bettering the way of life for the less privileged of Appalachia. It was truly inspiring. A recurring theme during our interviews was "empowerment." The sites and organizations are geared towards empowering the people they help into having a vested interest in the peo­ple and land. 
I especially enjoyed seeing and talking with the students at each site. Judging from the enthusiastic comments and volume of laughter late at night, I would say that the seminar was fulfilling and a success. This reaffirms my dedication to maintaining the best aspects of the seminar and also to continue working towards a better program for the future.. The Task Force was thrilled to observe and work with the students and we were proud of their com­passion and openness to new challenges. 
Aside from the business as­pects of our trip, a lot can happen while driving around for six days. On our first night, we got stuck in a ditch. This gave our minivan rental a muddy, rugged look for the remainder of the trip. The next day we smashed the taillight of another van. That was it for minivan injuries. My job was to navigate and make sure that we never, or rarely' turned onto the wrong, curvy, nausea-induc­ing road. Whether we were cruising while listening to John Denver hits, sitting around the campfire absorb­ing enough smoke to become self-contained beef jerky making factories. or simply contemplating that next shower or non-outhouse toi­let, we were having a blast. 
Our trip was extremely worthwhile and we look for­ward to a great fmale for this seminar and an equally exciting one in the spring. 








Smooth Sailin 

Midshipmen no match for a revived Irish offense 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
At best, the jury is still out. That would be the only conclusion any Irish fan could come to after Saturday's 58-21 drubbing of Navy at Notre Dame Stadium. 
A week off, some slight changes on the offensive line and a renewed offensive attack at worst ended Notre Dame's two game skid and gave hope that the seven victories needed for a bowl birth are indeed within reach. 
The victory if it achieved anything, and if you consider it an achievement, pushed Notre Dame (5-3} back into the top 25. The coaches awarded the Irish the final spot in their poll, but the Associated Press voters still list Notre Dame as one of the others receiving votes. 
The jury will surely be dismissed after Notre Dame squares off against fifth-ranked Florida State on Nov. 12. But until then Irish fans can begin with Navy and start building a case. 
Sophomore Emmett Mosely is certainly the star witness. The full-time flanker, part-time tailback reversed his roles against the Midshipmen. He carried 15 times for 84 yards and four touchdowns, caught one pass for 37 yards, and on special teams returned six 
see IRISH I page 2 
• JocK STRIP 


Coaches' sideshow better than the game itself 
L
ou Holtz glanced at his wristwatch because, unlike the paying customers, he didn't have the luxury of leaving early. It was about 4:15, 
Notre Dame's annual 
debriefing of the Naval Associate Sports Editor
Academy began. Just who were the corporate geniuses who paid for all that air time, anyway? 
While the Irish tried to run the clock out on their rout, Navy timeouts-and, of course, more commercials-kept getting in the way. 
"All I wanted to do was end up the game," Holtz said. But there were still games to play, with each coach using his players like pawns. 
Holtz made the first move, calling a fake punt with less than two minutes left and the Irish ahead by 30 points. Marc Edwards took the snap and rumbled to the Navy 10-yard line. A harmless play, if a lit­tle heavy-handed under the cir-
see KELLY I page 3 


The Observer/Kyle Kusek Emmett Mosley was just a fill-in at tailback, but he bacame the first Irish player in seven years to score four touchdowns in a game. 
NOTRE DAME NAVY 
58-2.1 
QUARTERBACK QUARTET 
• Tom Krug (right) was one of three sig­nal-callers to fill-in for Ron Powlus during Saturday's rout. 
-page 3 


~---------------------------------------~------~~~----~~~----------------------------------------­
Tuesday, November 1, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page2 



Irish take the first step 
'Four-game season' begins on positive note; FSU awaits 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
They called it a good start to a new sea­son. 
The Notre Dame players felt Saturday's 58-21 win over Navy was the first step toward a new goal, one they had carved into their psyche during the two weeks preparing for the Midshipmen. 
"It's a four-game season," Derrick Mayes said, "and this is a good way to begin." Even ifit was against a Navy team Notre Dame hasn't lost to in 31 straight games. 
"It doesn't matter that it is Navy," Jeremy Sample said. "This is a big win coming off two weeks of disappointment. It was good just to see the offense, defense and the kicking game come together." 
During the off-week the Irish returned to the basics, and all those involved called the practices as physical as fall camp. It was exactly what the Irish needed after consecutive losses to Boston College and BYU. And it also was necessary to silence, at least for the time being, the bushels of theories that have popped up to account for Notre Dame's fall. First the blame fell on the offensive line, then a lack of talent, then a few bad seeds. But maybe it was whole lot simpler. 
"I think we took winning for granted," Oliver Gibson said. "We didn't realize how much winning meant to us and how hard we would have to work." 
The work can't stop with a date with Florida State in Orlando less than two weeks away. 
"I thought we made some progress dur­ing the open date but we'll just have to wait and see," Holtz said. "I don't think 

Irish 
continued from page 1 
punts for 38 yards and added a 47-yard kickoff return. 
Injuries to Lee Becton and Ray Zellars kept them out of the contest and minor injuries to Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer left Mosely with the bulk of car­ries. 
"Emmett is an individual we have been trying to play at flanker but because of some injuries ahd to play tailback today," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "He has good moves and good vision at the line of scrimmage. He played well today as was one of the players we gave a game ball." 
Mosley's 19-yard run to start the sec­ond quarter sparked a 28-point spree by the Irish which included 20 and 60 yard scoring passes from Ron Powlus to Derrick Mayes. Another score came on an interception return for a touchdown by linebacker Alton Maiden. Navy quar­terback Jim Kubiak flipped a pass right to Maiden with 44 yards of open green in front of him. After the 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
A win is a win regardless of the opponent for Alton Maiden and the Irish. 
you can give an evaluation now. I do think we are a better team offensively. I know we are a better team now than we were two weeks ago. We know we've got to get better. The key is getting better in the next two weeks." 
Notre Dame needs to improve enough to win two of its last three so it can qualify for a bowl bid, not an easy task with a date with the Seminoles and long-time foe USC to Los Angeles to close the season. 
"We are playing against perfection," Mayes said. "It didn't matter who we played today. This game is a boost for all of us." 
few times, Maiden rumbled the distance to the endzone, giving Notre Dame a 38­7 halftime lead 
"That's always been a dream of mine," Maiden said. "I was fumbling it at first and thought I wasn't going to get it but luckily I did." 
With the game no longer in doubt, Holtz flooded the Irish lineup with reserves which included a revolving door at quarterback. Tom Krug, Leon Blunt and Gus Ornstein filled in for Powlus who finished 4-of-8 for 126 yards. All had there high and low points, the highest being Ornsteins 15­yard touchdown pass to Leon Wallace in the games closing seconds. 
Navy gave Irish fans a brief scare on its opening drive when Kubiak hit Scott Ross on a 32-yard scoring pass. But it was a fleeting moment of glory. After earning four first downs on its first two possession Notre Dame held Navy to only four on its next ten. 
"The game was basically over at half­time," Holtz said. "We just had too many athletes for them." 
A fact that won't hold true against the Seminoles. And until then, view the Navy win as unsubstantial evidence. 
Marc Edwards rumbles for 29 yards on a fake punt late in the game. 
• GAME Nons 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 

Watching quarterback Ron Powlus hobble off the field is a frightening­and familiar-sight for Notre Dame fans. 
His groin has made him gimpy for much of this season and a concussion ended his afternoon two weeks ago against Brigham Young. 
This time, it was his ankle. 
Powlus lugged his battered body off the field in the first half, limping gin­gerly on his left leg. 
Team doctors wrapped his ankle with about 100 yards of tape and he returned to the field later in the half. With both feet wrapped alike. 
"We didn't want anybody to know which ankle (was injured)," Powlus said. 
The injury isn't expected to keep him off the practice field between now and the Nov. 12 battle against Florida State. 
POWLUS' POINTS: He has thrown more than a dozen touchdown passes this season, but he never scored a point. 
Until Saturday. 

After handing off to fullback Mark Edwards on a two-point conversion play, Powlus slipped past the Navy defense into the endzone where he corralled Edwards' pass. 
ABANDON SHIP: Saturda/s win marked Notre Dame's 31st consecu­tive win over Navy. 
It is the longest current streak in college football, and the Irish need. only one more to tie the all-time mark set by Oklahoma over Kansas State from 1937-68. 
DUBLINERS: Should the Irish knock off Navy again next year at Notre Dame Stadium, they will have 
• GRADED POSITION ANAlYS!S 
QUARTERBACK 8­
Four quarterbacks combined for three touchdowns and two interceptions. It was a good learning experience for Gus Ornstein and Leon Blunt, but mistakes gave Navy's defense delusions that they could actually compete with Notre Dame's second team offense. 

RUNNING BACKS A-
Even with Ray Zellars out, Lee Becton on the bench, and Randy Kinder sitting out the second half with an injury, the running game looked good behind Emmett Mosley's 84­yard, four touchdown performance. 
RECEIVERS 8+ 

There were only ten completed passes on the day for the Irish, but it was a good day for Mayes, as usual, and Leon Wallace contributed with a touchdown catch. That's right, a tight-end caught a pass for the second game in a row. Is this a trend? 

OFFENSIVE LINE 8 
The offensive line opened holes that a truck could drive through. The defense looked like it was on roller skates. But wait-this was Navy that they beat up. Can they do it against a real team? 

DEFENSIVE LINE A-
Navy had only 24 yards rushing for the game. Alton Maiden had an interception return for a touchdown. What else can you say? Just three words-It was Navy. 

LINEBACKERS A 

All three Irish sacks were recorded by linebackers. Goheen, Sample, and Nau played 
like mad dogs, maiming any receiver that ventured over the middle and any back that got through the line. 

SECONDARY C+ 

Brian Magee got burned right off the bat with Navy's first scoring strike. Several inter­ference penalties gave the Midshipmen new life. But Allen Rossum and Ivory Covington played well while seeing extensive time. 

SPECIAL TEAMS 8 
With the exception of two missed extra points, the Irish special teams played inspired. Mosley had many good returns, and Bill Wagasy recovered a fumble on a kickoff. 

COACHING B 

Sure, this was Navy, but give credit to Lou Holtz for pulling the team back together. But the last touchdown pass may have made Navy coach George Chaump a little mad. Uh­oh. 

OVERALL GRADE 3.19 
A good game for parents. Mom and Dad saw 79 points scored, but they also did the wave and saw an impressive silent marine drill, distractions that make a boring game 
more fun and tolerable. 
-MIKE NORBUT a chance to break the consecutive­wins record on friendly turf. 
The 1996 Notre Dame-Navy game will be played in Dublin, Ireland, the true home of the Fighting Irish. 
Navy has never played on foreign soil, but the Irish defeated Miami 40­15 in Tokyo in 1979. 
EVERYBODY PLAYS: More than 80 Irish players saw action Saturday, beneficiaries of Navy's ineptness. 
Four quarterbacks, 11 receivers, 11 offensive lineman and 10 defen­sive tackles crowded the stat sheets, many carving their only niche in Notre Dame football history. 
Senior Mike McGlinn did double duty, wearing No. 70 when he played offensive tackle and switching to No. 85 when he played tight end. 
EDISON EVACUATES: Seldom-used freshman defensive back Jarvis Edison will transfer after the 1994-95 academic year. 
His decision comes less than two weeks after Irish coach Lou Holtz apparently called for the removal of a "cancer" at a team meeting. 
Though Edison said he wasn't part of the disease, he admitted that the gathering did add to his desire to leave the school. 
"The meeting had a lot to do with my decision," he told the South Bend Tribune. "It affected my committ­ment. I was surprised that a meeting like that even happened." 
Expected to be a player in the mold of current Irish star Bobby Taylor, Edison never reached his potential, in part because of off-season knee surgery that limited his effectiveness. 
But personal problems apparently affected his decision to transfer as much as football. 
"I was never happy here," Edison said. "It's been a struggle." 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
--~~~------------­
page 3 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Tuesday, November 1, 1994 



Mosley makes mentor Mayes pay the price 
Four quarterbacks take turns directing Irish offense in rout 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Associate Sports Editor 
A gentleman's bet over who would score more is a pretty good indication of how well an offense is operating. 
At halftime of Saturday's 58-21 Irish victory over Navy, receiver Derrick Mayes challenged tailback Emmett Mosley to a bit of a scoring competition. They had each contributed two touch­downs to Notre Dame's first half scoring bonanza. 
"Derrick and I were kidding each other at halftime," Mosley said. "He kept telling me how he felt like he was going to end up with four (touchdowns)." 
Instead, it was Mosley who finished with four, scoring twice in the second half to cap off a career day. The sopho­more gained 84 yards on 15 carries as the premier tailback in the Irish running game. 
It was the first time since 1987 that an Irish running back has scored four times in one game. Anthony Johnson accom­plished the same feat seven years ago against the same mighty Midshipmen. 
"We have been trying to make Emmett Mosley awide receiver, but we know he is a good running back," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz said. "With people out due to injuries, we had to move him to tailback." 
Randy Kinder, who started in the backfield, left the game in the first half with an arm bruise, leaving Mosley to carry the load. But with some blocking, his load did not seem quite as heavy. 
"The offensive line did a great job blocking," the sophomore said. "Today, we played as a team. All eleven people 

PREV· TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 
1. Nebraska (33) 9-0-0 1520 3 2. Penn St. (28) 7-0-0 1514 1 3. Auburn (1) 8-0-0 1427 4 4. Florida 6-1-0 1322 5 5. Miami 6-1-0 1267 6 6. Alabama 8-0-0 1221 8 7. Colorado 7-1-0 1214 2 8. Florida St. 6·1·0 1167 9 9. Utah 8-0-0 1033 12 10. Syracuse 6·1·0 892 14 11. Texas A&M 7-0-1 861 7 12. Washington 6-2-0 806 15 13. Virginia 6-1-0 749 18 14. Colorado St. 7-1-0 723 17 15. Kansas St. 5-2-0 600 23 16. Wash. St. 6-2-0 567 22 17. Virginia Tech 7-2-0 512 13 18.Arizona 6-2-0 504 11 19. N. Carolina 6-2-0 473 24 20. Michigan 5-3-0 435 10 21.0regon 6·3·0 373 22. Southern Cal 5-2-0 278 25 23.Duke 7-1·0 270 16 24. Miss. St. 6-2-0 119 25. 7·2-0 64 20 
The Observer/Jake Peters An injury to Ron Powlus (left) forced Tom Krug into action in the first half. 
did their jobs on offense." 
Even Holtz's shuffiing of quarterbacks could not interrupt the offense's rhythm. 
The Notre Dame coach employed four different signal callers in Saturday's contest. Ron Powlus, who started the game, completed four of eight passes for 126 yards and two second quarter touchdowns, both to Mayes. He then sat out the second half with an ankle sprain. 
"I sprained my ankle a bit, but it's fine," Powlus said. "Actually, it worked out good. We had a lead, so there was no real reason for me to be in there in the second half." 
Instead, the Irish starter watched his three backups mop up. But the job was a little messier than Holtz would have liked. 
"I wasn't pleased at how our second team offense was moving the ball," the Irish coach said. "We made some mis­
• STATISTICS  
SCORE BY QUARTERS  
Notre Dame  10 28  7 13  
Navy  7  0  0 14  
TEAMSTATS  Navy  NO  
First Downs  14  24  
Rushes-Yards  24-28  59-267  
Passing Yards  158  210  
Comp-Att-lnt  19-40-1  10-22-2  
Return Yards  68  82  
Punts-Avg.  11-37  5-40  
Fumbles-Lost  1-1  3·1  
Penalties-Yards  4-53  9-62  
Possession Time  24:49  35:11  

INDIVIDUAL STATS RUSHING-Notre Dame: Mosley 15-84 4TD, Edwards 14-78, Farmer 9-62, Kinder 6-45, Stafford 1-21, Thome 5-14, Krug !-minus 1, Klusas !-minus 2, Ornstein 2­minus 2, Powlus !-minus 4, Blunt 3-minus 2. Navy: Sm~h 5-27, Williams 5-14, McGrew 5-9, Nelson 3-1, Jefferson 1-0, Kubiak 5-1. PASSING-Notre Dame: Powlus 4-for-8, 126 yards 2 TD, Krug 3-for-8 53 yards, Ornstein 2-for-5 21 yards 1 
FIRST QUARTER Navy 7, Notre Dame 0 (5 plays, 64 yards, 2:04) 12:56-Jim Kubiak hit Ross Scott on a 32-yard touchdown pass (Brian Bucchianeri PAT). Key Play: A Kubiak screen pass to Michael Jefferson that went for 29 yards and a first down. Notre Dame 7, Navy 7 (8 plays, 65 yards, 2:34) 9:22-Emmett Mosley scored his first career touchdown on an 11-yard run (Scott Cengia PAT). Key Play: A Ron Powlus pass complete to Mosley for 35 yards on 3rd and 17 at the Navy 49. Notre Dame 1 0, Navy 7 (8 plays, 45 yards, 3:06) 3:28-Gengia connected on a 38-yard field goal. Key Play: A Tom Krug pass complete to Derrick Mayes for 31 yards down to the Navy 35. SECOND QUARTER Notre Dame 17, Navy 7 (5 plays, 40 yards, 1 :48) 11 :2~osley scores on a 19-yard scamper off the left side (Cengia PAT). Key Play: A pass interference call against the Midshipmen on a 3rd down play gave the Irish the ball at the Navy 19. Notre Dame 23, Navy 7 (3 plays, 60 yards, :57) 9:43-Powlus hit Mayes down the right side­line for a 60-yard score (PAT failed). Key Play: Powlus planting his feet as he threw, and Mayes looking the ball all the way in. Notre Dame 31, Navy 7 4:02-Kubiak hits Alton Maiden in the face with a pass, and the Irish defensive lineman gets the handle on the ball and rambles 45 yards for the score. (Powlus pitches to 
takes that we don't like to see made." 
While gaining some valuable experi­ence, every quarterback had a few instances that they would just as soon forget. 
Tom Krug, who took over immediately after Powlus left the game, made good throws to Mayes and Charlie Stafford before trying to force a pass into double coverage, resulting in an interception. 
Freshman Leon Blunt moved the team down the field in the third quarter, but then made an errant pitch to Mosley that was recovered by Navy, halting an Irish scoring drive. 
And Gus Ornstein, the last participant in the quarterback shuffle, threw an interception due to a miscommunication with receiver Cikai Champion. But the freshman came back to complete a touchdown pass to tight end Leon 
Wallace late in the game. 

TO 1 INT, Blunt 1-for-1 10 yards. Navy: Kubiak 15-for­33122 yards 2 TD 1 I NT, Fay 4-for-7 36 yards. RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Mayes 4·121 2TD, Stafford 3-31, Wallace 2-21 1TD, Mosley 1-37. Navy: Hickman 6·37, Scott 3-56 1 TO, Jefferson 3-37, Williams 3-2, Dixon 1-9, Smith 1-8, Quartley 1-7, Grana 1-21TD. 
TACKLES-Notre Dame: Saddler 3, Moore 2. Covington 5, Rossum 3, Magee 3, Wooden 3, Mclaughlin 1, Sample 7, Davis 1 , Tatum 3, Maiden 1 , Mitoulas 3, Wynn 1, Cobbins 1, Kaczenski 1, Goheen 3, Gibson 4, Nau 2, Berry 1, Hamilton 1, Grasmanis 1, Bergman 1. Navy: Salley 2, Hammond 1, Neville 1, Halloran 6, Love 6, Speed 7, Thompson 8, Aloia 6, Hart 4, Bryant 1, Bruce 5, Galloway 3, Harris 7, Zweig 1, Johnston 1, Alukonis 1. SACKs-Notre Dame: Sample 1, Goheen 1, Nau 1. Navy: Salley 1. FUMBLES RECOVERED-Notre Dame: Wagasy 1, Powlus 1. Navy: Speed 1, Edwards 1. KICKS BLOCKED-Notre Dame: Mclaughlin 1. Navy: Reaghard 1. 
Edwards and then receives the return pass from the fullback for the two-point conversion). Key Play: Kubiak going temporarily insane and thinking Maiden was on his team. Notre Dame 38, Navy 7 (6 plays, 56 yards, 1 :53) 1:02-Powlus hit Mayes on a 20-yard corner route (Stefan Schroffner PAT). Key Play: Don't they all look like key plays by now? THIRD QUARTER Notre Dame 45, Navy 7 (3 plays, 31 yards, 1 :24) 1:4~osley scampers in the end zone on a 24-yard run (Cengia PAT). Key Play: Gus Ornstein sparking the team by entering the game at quarterback. FOURTH QUARTER Notre Dame 51, Navy 7 (6 plays, 21 yards, 2:15) 14:48-Mosley scores his fourth touchdown of the day from two yards out (PAT blocked). Key Play: Bill Wagasy recovers a Kevin Hickman fumble after an Irish kickoff at the Navy 21. Notre Dame 51, Navy 14 (1 play, 2 yards, :06) 9:22-Kubiak hit Brian Grana with a 2-yard pass (Bucchianeri PAT). Key Play: Chris Hart intercepted an Ornstein pass and brought it back to the Irish 2. Notre Dame 51, Navy 21 (7 plays, 49 yards, 2:44) 2:4Q-Will Smith scored from 13 yards out (Bucchianeri PAT). Key Play: An offsides call against Notre Dame on a fourth down play that also erased a LaRon Moore interception. Notre Dame 58, Navy 21 (8 plays, 46 yards, 2:02) :38-0rnstein hits'Leon Wallace for 15 yards on fourth down (Chris McCarthy PAT). Key Play: A fake punt with less than two minutes left in the game. Here's mud in your eye, Navy. 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek Derrick Mayes scored two touchdowns, but buddy Emmett Mosley had four. 
"At the end, we just decided to try to put the ball in the end zone," Ornstein said. "Coach Holtz just wanted to give us a chance and see how we'd handle the situation." 
The offense handled the situation with ease, as Ornstein and Wallace recorded their first touchdown pass and catch of their careers. But it wasn't enough to make them winners in the real game, the gentleman's scoring contest. Mosley had that locked up well before their play happened. 


Kelly 
continued from page 1 
cumstances. 
"The fake punt had two purposes," Holtz explained. "Number one, it lets people know we have it. And second, I just wanted the game to end." 
Assuming Bobby Bowden spent the balance of his weekend drawing up punt-fake defenses, Holtz accomplished at least one of his objec­tives. The other proved to be· more elusive. 
It was George Chaump's move. The Navy coach, hoping to save precious seconds for another possession, called timeout after Irish quarterback Gus Ornstein downed the ball on two consecutive plays. 
Oh, so that's how you want to play? 
"They kept calling timeouts," Ornstein said. "If they wanted to play some more, we'd play some more." 
Instead of ordering Ornstein to genuflect again and force the Midshipmen to use their last time­out, Holtz went to the air. After an incompletion on third down, he reached for his most secret weapon-more surprising even that the fake . .. punt. That's right ... the tight end. 
On fourth-and-goal from the 15 with just sec­onds remaining, Ornstein connected with Leon Wallace for each players' first career score. 
It would have been the nail in the coffm, if the grave-diggers weren't already wiping the dirt from their hands. 
"I apologized to George for the last touch­down," Holtz said. "I still feel bad about it." 
It was obviously the Navy timeouts that turned Holtz to the skies in the fmal minute, not that they provided much of an excuse for his excess. 
But Chaump would have been the helpless vic­tim in the whole scenario if he hadn't searched for so much sympathy.") just would have liked to get some other guys in the game so they could at least go home and say they played in the great Notre Dame Stadium," he said. "I guess they won't have that chance." 
He didn't explain why those other guys didn't have that chance before the final minute of a game that the Irish led by 44 points with more than 13 minutes left. 
They stayed on the bench while the coaches played games. 


I 
r 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

The Naval Academy's Honor Guard performed at halftime. It was Navy's most intimidating formation of the afternoon. 

The Observer/Jake Peters The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
....
-
Renaldo Wynn leaps to deflect a Navy pass . Four touchdowns made sophomore Emmett Mosley an instant celebrity. 

The Observer/Jake Peters The Observer/Jake Peters John Dockery and NBC were searching for stories in strange places. 
.. 


:ACCENT
Tuesday, November 1, 1994 page9 
Washington Seminar: Learning experiences of life 
By PATII BANIEWICZ, CHRIS in implementing change within claim they will. Instead, peace -~.~~ l 1_·_.'.'
····wu. (•... 

MUELLER, AND KATRINA government, if the interest should be sought through .,, ··~
.. ;::; ~ :

WORMAN groups could find a common peaceful measures. Accent Writers ground among their organiza­War is hell, and for the stu­tions. · dents of the Washington semi­
Does owning a gun make a While some choose to nar, hell on earth took on a person safer? .How do we pro­approach the problem though whole new meaning. In proba­tect our children from violence legislative means, others go to bly the most moving four hours within their communities? Is the root of the problem. of the trip, participants traveled our government doing anything Another group that the students through time, back to the to prevent hate crimes due to had the opportunity to visit Jewish Holocaust of World War racism? called themselves the Public II. The U.S. Holocaust Memorial 
These are just a few ques­Allies. Public Allies offers peo­Museum details Hitler's rise to tions brought up for discussion ple, ages 18 to 30 with at least power, early executions of and debate among the twenty­a high school diploma (or political allies and resistance, two Notre Dame students equivalency}, an opportunity to brainwashing of the world participating in the Washington gain leadership skills in social through propaganda, the Seminar, titled "Our Violent justice action through a pro­attempt to create the master S.Jciety," over fall break. On . gram that consists of leadership race with the "final solution" this seminar, organized training and service work. and the aftermath of these t uough the Center for Social In a ten month program, its atrocities. Concerns, students had the participants work at various One exhibit shows a modern opportunity to spend a week in social service centers through­day version of this madness in W<.shington D.C. amidst the out the city during four days of the former Yugoslavia. Many Sn .ithsonian, the Capitol, fa­the week and on the fifth they heated discussions about mous monuments, and decades meet for leadership classes. America's role in worldwide of 11istory while learning how Public Allies has people work­military intervention and of the violence and racism have ing with domestic violence, general apathy to act when it is become pervasive and institu­child abuse, and other issues known that something as inhu­tionalized in our society and affecting Washjinton D.C. and mane as the Holocaust is occur­what is being done to solve our other major cities. ring transpired between partic­Photo courtesy of Colleen McGrath 
nation's problems. The most radical response to ipants in the seminar. The gen­Participants learned h )W violence and racism have become pervasive in our society.
After spending a day visiting violence encountered during eral consensus was tha-t polit­the city highlights, the students the week came from ically organized events as awful 1'he RAC also involves itself in organizations hard at work in began the week-long explo­Washington Post columnist as these should never have many large humanitar; ·.n pro­our nations capitol are proofration into the causes of vio­Colman McCarthy. McCarthy, happened and we must work to jects. In the eigr t1 ~s, they that even small steps make a lence and potential solutions on an anarchist and pacifist, prevent it rather than wait until helped relocate mo~t Ethiopian difference. Whether that means 
how to effectively work to pre­believes that every human life it starts and lives are lost. Jews to Israel and 11.e ~urrently working for national or state 
vent violent crimes. has value and none should be Taking action against present looking for ways to help Jews in legislative reform or gettingFor example, the students placed ahead of another. He and future injustices against other war torn com tries such involved with educating people 
had the opportunity to speak does not believe in the govern­Jews, the Religious Action as Somalia. ahout peaceful methods of con­with representatives from the ment's assumed power to exer­Center (HAC}, lobbies the gov­The week was fuL oi sobering flict resolution on the interper­
National Rifle Association, the cise its politically determined ernment and organizes groups and sometimes overwhelming sonal level, action rather than National Crime Prevention will over the masses. to advance their social justice experiences focu:>i11g on the complacency is a positive plan 
Council, and the organization Western culture, McCarthy agenda. One of the issues dis­major issues f1 ;ing "Our for implementing change. entitled Physicians for Social claims, has never given peace a cussed with the Notre Dame Violent Society." The 1any Now that the Notre Dame Responsibility. chance. From the beginning, group was the separation of organizations ancl · o that seminar group is back from 
Although all three organiza­war and violent means have church and state. the students on is Notre Washington, their first step will 
tions agree that the abuse of been the accepted forms of con­The RAC believes strongly Dame seminar me! t.h gener-be a meeting with South Bend guns contributes to a more vio­flict resolution. He offers anoth­that a church run government ated heavy discusdo amongst officials. The group hopes to lent society, each group advo­er way: teach peace from the would result in oppression of all the group. More · portantly offer possible solutions to the 
cates a unique means for curb­beginning. opposing religions. It is impos­the experience st.1 td some­destructive force that violence 
ing the amount of harm done If we give the attention to sible to represent all religious thing within the students that and racism are currentlyby people who use guns. peace-makers that we give to beliefs in the government and will hopf'iully re'> • in action asserting on the local communi­
Through the seminar students war-makers in schools, chil­therefore the separation of working towards • more peace­ty of South Bend. The transition quickly realized that much dren will grow up knowing that church and state is essential to ful society. from ideology to social action is reform is inhibited by the sheer war and violence are not the preserving the freedom of reli­Often the group asked "how a tough step to make effectively 
fact that too many people are solution; all they do is create gion guaranteed by the Bill of can we realistically work but the Washington Seminar working independently to stop more war and violence. Rights. They continuously go towarG.s resolution of a problem was a great learning experi­gun violence. A collective mea­McCarthy points out that no up against religious right lobby­as historically ingrained and ence that exposed the students 
sure among interest groups war has ever put an end to war ist groups and leaders to keep institutionalized as violence?" to the tools and models to make would surely be more effective even though they all seem to this vital separation in place. Although tllis issw' is huge, the that transition smoothly. 
Young Republicans Club gets VIP treatmer~.t in Washington 
By PATII CARSON 
He had his feet up on the pillars Sainr Ma1y's Accenr Editor and he was drinking a Pepsi," Gillig added. 
All vacations are nice, but "So we yelled to get his atten­those consisting of Bob Dole, tion. It worked. He stood up, Regis Philbin, VIP tours, waved, and asked us how we seafood buffets, historical where," added McCandless Hall moments, and political educa­junior Kelly Kilmer. tion are even better. At least Professor Renshaw said that that's what the group of stu­his favorite part o;f the trip was dents who traveled to walking around the different Washington, D. C. for fall museums, especially on break thought. The frrst major Thursday. Since Washington is project presented by the newly set up well for walking to formed Saint Mary's College different monuments, and since Young Republicans was a "suc­it's easy to learn the city, it was cess," according to Professor enjoyable walking from place to Claude Renshaw, Business place, according to Renshaw. Administration and Economics One of the best parts of the and advisor for the club. trip was meeting new people 
The trip lasted from and getting to know some stu­Saturday, October 22 through dents even better. The trip Thursday, October 27 and was consisted of great planning by attended by Professor Renshaw, Professor Renshaw. The days 11 Saint Mary's students, and vvere packed with prearranged 
two students from Marquette. Photo courtesy of Kristen Ross tours and sightseeing and the SMC's Young Republicans Club traveled to Washington, D.C. to see the government in action. 
Saturday, the first day of the nights were free to explore trip, brought excitement as the same night, the group saw the ries of survivors," said LeMans a favorite of most group mem-Washington, said Ross. Saint Mary's College Alumnae play "Shear Madness" at the Hall Junior Kristen Ross. hers. "The club has so much to Association, Washington, D. C. Kennedy Center for the "The tour of this museum was "The best part of the trip was offer and you don't have to be a Chapter, invited the group to Performing Arts. a very interesting part of the our tour of the Capitol. Since Republican to join, according to their annual fundraising party. Day three brought the tour of trip. It made me appreciate my we had a VIP tour, our guide Gillig." This featured a dinner buffet the United States Holocaust freedom and become more knew a lot of inside informa­"It's a great way to learn and a fund raising auction, with Memorial Museum. "There was aware of what really hap-tion. He told as all kinds of about politics and the govern­Regis Philbin as MC. an incredible array of remem-pened," Ross said. facts and showed us secret ment," added Kilmer. 
Day number two took the stu­brances, including photographs Tuesday brought a tour of the rooms in the building," said dents to Mass at the National and videotapes of activities in White House and a discussion LeMans Hall Junior Jayne The club is currently seeking Shrine of the Immaculate Germany and Europe during group with Senate staff at Gillig. volunteers to help with local Conception, where three of the the thirties and forties. There Senator Dan Coats' office. This "We saw Bob Dole sitting in elections and reminds eligible students in the group were was also an hour long video-was followed by a VIP tour of the balcony trying to get a sun­students to vote on November asked to bring up the gifts. That tape which featured some sto-tile Capitol, which seemed to be tan while talking on the phone. 8. 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 1, 1994 
• NFL FOOTBAll • MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl 
. ..,. 
Cowboys take criticism Alou named as AP manager of the year; 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN possibly the rest of the year. 

Expos claim best record in ML Baseball
Associated Press Switzer said it was the first 
IRVING, Texas 

The Dallas Cowboys did what good teams do, survive a bad day at the office. 
Their 23-20 victory over the Cincinnati Bengals on Sunday gave the defending Super Bowl champions a 7-1 record at the midway point of their first sea­son under coach Barry Switzer. 
"Some days it ain't easy being a Dallas Cowboy," offensive lineman Nate Newton said. 
The usually reliable sec­ondary gave up two long touch­down passes by quarterback Jeff Blake and it took some blunders by the Bengals, including a late fourth down hit by James Francis on Troy Aikman to keep a touchdown drive alive. 
Distracted Dallas, worried all week about the traffic wreck that injured offensive Erik Williams, showed just enough to get by the Bengals (0-8). 
"Erik was definitely in the back of our minds," running back Emmitt Smith said. "We wanted to win the game for him." 
The Cowboys had Williams' No. 79 jersey number on their wristbands and helmets. ihey even had his uniform in a lock­er in the dressing room at Cincinnati. 
"There was no doubt we were thinking about him," wide re­ceiver Michael Irvin said. "We were emotionally drained." 
Williams suffered a knee injury in the wreck that will 
By BEN WALKER 
AP Baseball Writer 
Felipe Alou, whose young Montreal Expos had the best record in baseball when the strike started, was chosen Monday major league manager of the year by The Associated Press. 
Alou received 34 votes in nationwide balloting by 58 writers and broadcasters. Buck Showalter of the New York Yankees was second with 11 votes and Mike Hargrove of Cleveland was third with nine votes. 
Earlier this month, Alou was a near-unanimous pick as NL manager of the year by the Baseball Writers Association of America. He received 27 of 28 first-place votes. 
Montreal was 7 4-40 and lead­ing Atlanta by six games in the NL East on Aug. 12. 
The Expos have shown improvement since May 22, 1992, the day Alou was hired to replace the fired Tom Runnells. 
"I believe a lot of people real­ize that after three years of solid progress we have a super club," Alou said recently. 
Alou has said his favorite part of the job is watching young players develop their talent. He and his coaching staff saw the likes of 23-year-old shortstop Wil Cordero, 23-year-old pitch­er Pedro Martinez and 21-year­old first baseman Cliff Floyd show major progress this sea­son. 
Alou, 59, played for the Expos in 1973 and joined the Montreal organization as an instructor in 1976. He has been with the system since then, managing successful Expos teams in Class A. Double-A and Triple-A. He also coached Montreal for several seasons. 
This year, the Expos dropped 8 1/2 games behind Atlanta in April before rebounding under Alou's even-handed approach. They passed the Braves in July and began pulling away, and were in position for their first postseason appearance since 1981. 
"The one regret I have is that we didn't complete the regular season," he said. 
Among those who helped the Expos this year were outfielder Moises Alou, the manager's son, and reliever Mel Rojas. the manager's nephew. 
The Expos have done well in recent years despite losing such players as Dennis Martinez to teams that were willing to pay more for free agents. The Expos also have been hit in the front office, losing the likes of general manager Dan Duquette. 
This offseason, Montreal may lose outfielder Larry Walker to free agency. The Expos also could face problems trying to sign high-salaried outfielder Marquis Grissom and reliever John Wetteland. 
"We've shown the world we could recuperate from losses," Alou said. 
Alou is under contract to manage the Expos through 1995. He also has a two-year personal services contract with Montreal beyond that, and that could also mean the manager's job. 
No one is baseball is sure, however, whether there will be a season next year because of. the continuing labor problems. 
''I'm looking forward to man­aging Moises Alou and the rest of the major league Montreal Expos in 1995," he said. 

keep him out six weeks and 


Classifieds 

game he had coached where the defense gave up big plays. "We got hit on big plays we hadn't allowed all season," Switzer said. "But we did what we had to do. We got the win. And it could be an important one later in the season when you get into the playoffs and start talking homefield advan­tage." 
Secondary coach Dave Campo said "Cincinnati did a good job of changing up some of the things they had done. But we adjusted to the new quarter­back in the second half. You can count on two hands the number of big plays we've allowed in the last five years. That's what is so upsetting." 
The Bengals jumped to a 14-0 lead almost before the Cowboys knew what happened. 
"That's the way it's going to be the rest of the season because teams are out to get us," Newton said. 
The Cowboys lead the Philadelphia Eagles by a game in the NFC East. They host the New York Giants, riding a five­game losing streak, next Monday night. 
Then Dallas has a showdown in San Francisco in a game that could be decisive regarding the homefield advantage in the NFC playoffs. 
"These are the kind of games you have to win on the way to a championship," Switzer. "The season is a long journey. This is a trip we survived." 
*FREE FLU SHOTS* 

Notre Dame ID required. Short sle.eves required to receive immunization. November 1,2 and 3, 1994 .. 
10:00 AM to 6:00 PM .at Hesburgh Library Concourse and 
19:00 AM to 6:00 PM at l,.afprtvn~ Stvdent Center, Dooley Room
"-:;­

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 
cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  Spring Break Early Specials!  NEED 2 OR 3 AF GAs. CALL  Happy 19th Plum I -from Petes,  HEY COUNSELOR! REACH OUT  
NOTICES  Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 1 (800)359-9808  Bahamas Party Cruise, 6 days & 12 meals $2791 Panama City  DREW 232-3769  Dungs, BB, Draus, Ski and Pooler.  AND TOUCH ME. CAN'T HANDLE THE WORLD PULLING ME  
Oceanview Kitchens $1291 Cancun  Need 2 AIR FORCE GAs  APART. CIRCUS! DESPAIR FOL­ 
USED BOOKS & CLIFPS NOTES  HELP! Need your non-rat infested  & Jamaica $3991 Daytona $1591  Please call Curtis 282-2197  MUSICAL THEATER@ ND  LOWS EVERYWHERE. NEED  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  basement for my band to practice.  Keys $229! CocoaBeach $15911·  Experienced director looking for  YOU. HEART STOPS WHEN YOU  
ND Ave & Howard M-Sa/1 0-6  Will pay I play in return. Julie 273  800-678-6386  music director for musical audition­ ENTER A ROOM. -FLAME  
Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store  0182.  NEED AF GA'S OR STUD TIX  ing in Dec. and performing in Feb.  
EA HOCKEY for IBM  X3098  GOTH sponsored. Interested? Call  Alan Laser is the king of cluster  
ILOST&FOUNDI  Wantedlll Individuals and Student Organizations to Promote SPRING  1994 players with trades, etc ... almost brand new, has all books  Cara @271-9364.  consultants. He's pretty cool, too.  
BREAK '95. Earn substantial  and the registration form.  Notre Dame's Traditional Irish Band  
TO THE ERIC WHO BOUGHT MY  MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL  best offer; call Tom at 4-1712  IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 AIR  ... Seamaisin .... 1st CD at the  We're Open  
BYU TIX, I WANT MY BOOKLET  INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­ FORCE GA'S. CALL JOSE  Bookstore, 2cd one by X-Mas  Early, Late, & Weekends!!!  
BACK. I LOST YOUR PH #, SO PLEASE CALL ME AT 289-9420.  800-327-6013  TICKETS  X1661.  000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Lafortune Student Center  
Are you an organizer? Like to get  NEEDED-Air Force GA or STUD  TOP 15 SAYINGS ON THE RIGHT­ Phone 631-COPY  
FOUND: two men's ties that acci­ people together? Make $$$, gain  I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.  call ann x4544  TO-LIFE MILWAUKEE TRIP:  
dentally fell off someone's dry  excellent business experience and  272-6551  15.We don't look 21 (speak for  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%  
cleaning. They were found about two weeks ago in front of Crowley.  eam free travel by marketing our Spring Break packages. Call Blue  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  PERSONAL  yourself). 14. I'd look it up, but I think there  HEY CAVANAUGH WOMENI Take two fun guys (not like fungi)  
Call X2140 for more information.  Iguana Tours 1-800-868-7423  HOME GAMES. 272-7233.  are a lot of Dicks in Milwaukee.  to your dance. No gift needed!  
A 4 can only come up so many  13. Hello, Mr. Schlosser.  Guaranteed time of your semester!  
WANTED  EARN INCOME  It's my dad's 50th Birthday and I want to make his day. You can  times-and jewelry doesn't count  12. Try to avoid the $2 toll? Bad idea.  No purchase necessary! See the girls in 124 'Naugh for details.  
HAVE FUN MARKETING  help mell Sell me  11 . Maureen's Top 1 0 Secrets: #1?  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%  
MACRI'S DELl  ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY  FOUR AIR FORCE GAS  **The ''We-Hate-Top-10's  10. I wouldn't touch Clinton with a  
Now hiring most positions. Good  PRODUCTS, HOLIDAY GIFT  Please????II  Top-1 O-Ust-from-Atlanta**  10-11 pole.  Carrie: Hope all is well with you and  
starting pay plus benefits and  BASKETS. CALL ME TODAY,  Thanks. Michelle 284-5512  10. Me gusta mantequilla ... ls this  9. Incumbents? Behead them all.  Cheyne. I haven't seen either of  
bonus programs. Experience  START MAKING MONEY  Butter?  8. Andy's head is the center of the  you online. Please answer your e­ 
helpful but not necessary. We train.  TOMORROW -674-9634.  I NEED 3 AF GAs! Sam X4872  9. We gotta goto the MoneyWhore.  universe.  mail, or call me 612.647.6675. Mark  
Apply within at either location:  The what? The ATM. She puts out  7. broccol-eye.  T  
214 Niles Av., S. Bend, 282-1351  Wanted!! I Individuals and Student  NEED GAs for Air Force  everytime.  6. It's easier if you lie down.  
or 6502 Grape Rd., Mishawaka  Organizations to Promote SPRING  2 or 4 together Call Marc  8. Secession -the right thing to  5. School bus? HA HA HA!  MOANER!!!  
277-7273.  BREAK '95. Earn substantial  @ X3300 or X3309  dol  4. I am Zork. I will kill you.  
MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL  7. Oh my God. Don't merge yet...  3. I've never lost at 21.  no more separation (of food), we're  
STUDENT TRAVEL SALES I  INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­ $$NEEDED$$  6. Those aren't ladyfingers, those  2. Beer on a stick.  unitying.  
Sunchase Tours is seeking ambi­ 800-327-6013  AIR FORCE GA'S CALL GARY  are my fingers.  1. Where's Mr. Jones??  
tious sales reps to promote ski and  277-9279  5. We may have had virgin fish­ only chicken and rice from now until  
......  beach trips for Spring Break '95! Eam cash and free trips. CAll  FOR RENT  2 FSU GA'S FOR SALE. CALL  bowls, but we aiW!IYS have free beer.  Quality Copies, Quickly!!!  friday.  
today: 1·800 SUNCHASE.  ROSI AT 634-4476.  4. Why can't we just drive there?ll  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  yes, they do speak Spanish in  
THE·HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  Uh, how about that wall..  Lafortune Student Center  London.  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED  4 SALE: 2 AF & 2 FSU GA I!  3. I hate RUDY!! Ok, ok ...the alliga­ Phone 631-COPY  
Eam up to $2,000+/month working  BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  3373 justin  tor's name is Killian.  excuse me..excuse me..excuse  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  2. The definition of a redneck? The  VISIT ORLANDO! Notre Dame/FSU  me .. do you know what's in a ...  
panies. World travel (Hawaii,  OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219·  NEED 4 GA TICKETS FOR AIR·  guy in front of me who just bought  game weekend. ECONO LODGE  
Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.)  773-2034  FORCE GAME IN EXCHANGE  two packs of Marlboros and a  CENTRAL-1 mile from stadium. $48  and the saga continues ...  
Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ FOR CASH AND A JOB. CALL  Penthouse.  + tax (Advance Res. Rate) $3 R.T.  until Friday.  
ment available. No experience nec­ Rm Available-$225/mo, 5-min  LARRY OR KATHY (708)495-2711.  1. Put the blankety-blank football in  Shuttle. Large, clean rooms, pool,  
essary. For more information call1·  drive 232-7175 or 631-4809  the dang trashcanl  HBO, ESPN, Fast Eddie's Bar &  okay, when are we going to hit  
206-634-0468 ext. C55841  *FOR SALE* 2 FSU vs. NO GA's  Grill800-293-7234.  Target?  
TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK  FOR SALE  Deb 4945  Happy Birthday Emily Malcounl  ** SEINFEST '94!! **  SNORE ... SNORE ... SNORE ...  
'95! LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA,  2 FSU-NDTIX  Peace and love from the SAW  SUB'S Comedy Talent Show  
CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE.  25 yard line, upper deck, Third row,  crew.  Starring: Taylor Mason  well my friends, T minus 3 days and  
BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1  JAMES TAYLOR TICKETS  seats 19&20. Call Greg, 904-673·  Thurs. Nov. 3 8:00p.m.  counting ... congrats those of you  
ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL  5th ROWIII!I  8812 Best offer.  Seamaisin at the Midway Tavern, 2  Lafortune Ballroom -2nd Floor  who haven't cheated. for you  
FREE! SUN SPLASH TOURS1­ call: -1240 or -1082  blocks So. of Hacienda on 4th  It'll be AWESOME! I  cheaters, shame on you, it's sup­ 
800-426-7710  2 Air Force GA's for Sale 235-3394  Street... ... Every Thursday  FREE HOT WINGSII  posed to be a surprise :)  

right to play i~ the SuperBowl? · · · But that's getting ahead of···."''""..."'"" the game. Back to the team proposal, In the · 
Please, Recycle The Observer 
Ifyou're into computer sciences, data processing, accounting, auditing, math or law ... 

get in touch with State Farm. 
Our career opportunities are many and varied for qualified grads. If you're selected, you'll enjoy the advantages of working with a respected leader in the insurance industry. Expert training. State­of-the-art equipment. Excellent pay and benefits. Cost-of-living adjustments. Plenty of room to grow. And you'll enjoy Bloomington, Illinois, too. It's a thriving community with .the social, cultural and recreational activities afforded by two universities. 
Contact your Placement Director, or write Daryl Watson, Assistant Director Home Office Personnel Relations, One State Farm Plaza, Bloomington, Illinois 61710. 
State Farm Insurance Companies · Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois · An Equal Opponuniry Employer 
page 11 

By TIM SHERMAN Assistant Sports Editor 
The chance was there. An early-season home showdown with the defending national champions after a week of intense preparation. An oppor­tunity to prove to themselves and the college hockey world that they are a legitimate and consistent threat. But for the Notre Dame hockey team, it turned out to be just another learning experience. 
The Irish dropped two games to Lake Superior State over the weekend to even their record at 2-2. 
"It would have nice to beat such an outstanding hockey team," said Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer. "We had some opportunities. Still, it was a pretty good effort." 
Friday night, the host Irish fell to the Lakers by a count of 6-3. They fared just slightly better the next night, losing 6-4. 
Saturday night would have been a perfect setting for the Irish to upset the Lakers for the second straight year. The game was played on the ice of the Palace at Auburn Hills (Detroit) in front of 13,274 fans. It wasn't meant to be, however. 
The Lakers jumped out to a 3­0 first period lead, and it turned out to be just too much for the underdog Irish to over­come. 
"The first period was our 
downfall," said Schafer. "After that, we played very well." 
Notre Dame cut the margin to two after second period tallies by captain Brett Bruiniks and sophomore Brian McCarthy and seemed to have the momentum on their side of the ice. It was a fleeting feeling though, as LSSU's super Wayne Strachan struck for his second goal of the game just two minutes later. 
Perhaps the biggest positive to come from Saturday's game was the play of freshman goal tender Matt Eisler. Playing the national champions in front of such large crowd could have been a bit overwhelming, but Eisler handled the pressure well. 
"He had a very good outing," Shafer appraised. "The sooner he gets used to the pressure, the better." 
Much the same can be said about the entire team, especial­ly the freshman. 
"They played well," said Tim Harberts, who notched a goal in the second contest. "We showed a lot of depth and a high maturity level. 
Playing the best so early should only help down the line. 
"The pace was a lot quicker than what we were used to," Schafer noted. "Whenever you go on the ice against such a great team you can't let your guard down." 

.. That's bow .. at midstiason. San Francisco the class 
NPC· and P!JU~.~elpbJa·· 
Minnesota right behind. San Diego and Miami atop AFC with $everal oth()rS . notch below. 
And when it comes right down to it why not have • San Diego-Miami and San.· Francisco-Dallas meet for the 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Climbing Wall-Climbing wall orientation sessions will be held on the following Sundays at 12:30pm to 2:00pm: November 6, November 13, November 20, and December 4. All participants must sign-up in advance in the RecSports office. Space is limited. 
Sailing Team -The sailing team qualified for all three national championships by winning the Midwest Championship in each. 
Women's Basketball -The women's basketball team will appear on television twice this year. First, on February 10 at 7:00pm against Butler. Second against Northern Illinios on February 23 at 9:00pm. They will be broadcasted by the Sportschannel. 
RecSports Yoga -Class #2 begins Wednesday, Nov. 2. 5:45-7:00, Room 114 Loftus. 
• HocKEY 
leers fall t'Wice to defending champs 

Notre Dame puts up a fight, but falls short 6-3, 64 to LSSU 
Our River front, 5 year old, all one level, seven rooms, 60' deck home on the north bank of the St. Joe is for sale. 22 minutes from Notre Dame. Boating, fishing, tennis. Across from Orchard Hills C. C. in Buchanan, MI. 
$259,000.00 
3000 White Oaks Lane 
616-695-5958 

Weekend open house. 
"The salmon are runnin!!" 



RELATIONSHIPS: 
How to deal with the ones you have, How to get the ones you want! 
ELLEN GOOTBLATT 
"Relationships" Expert Advice Columnist, Author and Host of #1 rated ABC evening 
....
talk show 

Come hear her speak about 
MEETING, DATING I RELATING & MATING ­
A 
.cmmEs Wednesday, November 2 swo SMC Carroll Auditorium, 7:30PM 
$1 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 1, 1994 
but we still attacked well." digs, and also had 8 kills. "One problem that we've had Freshmen Angie Harris, who


No. I Volleyball
is that since we're constantly was second behind Peters with continued from page 16 attacking and moving forward, continued from page 16 12 kills, and Jamie Lee, who we have lost some of our focus contributed 8 kills and 8 digs to 
tournament, so while wins may in the back." Florida on their home court," the Irish effort, were also key 

prepare them for tough compe­said Brown. "They had a big
Highlights of the four-game components of the victory. 
tition, their ranking is mean­crowd that was very knowl­
stretch included a hat trick byingless. forward Rosella Guerrero in edgeable, but that made it easi­"The team played with confi­
"We can't take any team light­Friday's game against Xavier. er for us to get excited." dence and poise," said Brown. 

ly," explained Fisher, "because Her goal in Sunday's game "They really rose to the occa­

everyone is out to get us. And All-American outside I;J.itter
against Wright State tied Guer­sion." 
being ranked No. 1 is a great 

rero for the Irish single-season Christy Peters led the Irish over The Irish finished off their accomplishment, but it's only the Gators with 17 kills.
goal record, another accom­week with conference victories 
one step in getting to our goal plishment which is modestly Sophomore Jenny Birkner led over Northern Illinois and which is to be No. 1 after the the team ·defensively with 12
acknowledged. University of Illinois at Chicago.
NCAA tournament." 

"I just hope to go out and play 
The Irish displayed that atti­my best," said Guerrero. "If I 

tude again this weekend in its The Observer/Kyle Kusek
score goals, then that's great,
final MCC regular season Cindy Daws and the Irish hope to
too, but I'm more concerned 
play host for the NCAA regionals. 
matches, dumping Xavier 5-0 with how I play. If I score but 

When the Great
and Wright State 7-1. The wins 

play badly, then I'm not 
completed a 17-0-1 regular end it looks like we may have 
happy." 
season for Notre Dame, the everyone in good condition for 
Even after all his team's suc­






American Dream
program's first undefeated sea­that to happen." 
cess, Petrucelli is not convinced 
son. The Irish open post-season
that the Irish have played their 
"Last weekend [against Ohio play as the top seed in the MCC
best soccer yet.
State and Detroit Mercy] we tournament in Indianapolis. 
isn't great enough
"We have still had some play­
scored early and took emotion Wins in the tournament should
ers out, and that has prevented
out of the other team," Petru­solidify their No. 1 ranking and 
us from completely coming to­
celli said. "We didn't do that bid to host the Midwest Re­Have you considered
gether as a team. Next week 
against Xavier and Wright State gional_of the NCAA tournament. 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the
Baseball searches for new teams 
Che're Uza Lou We both miss ~~ We wish we could 

-be there 
DYEUX ANNIVEQC>NQE 
With love from 
Aru!ersl 

great sc~res... 


·---· 
I I I I 
+7.2.' I t * 

po1n s 

Last class begins on: November 6, 1994 
-
I ­
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 



KAPLAN 
• As documented in the May 1994 Kaplan LSAT Performance Study conducted by Price Waterhouse. 
University of Notre Dame for collc!.!e !!raduates 
tive officer of the Boston Red interested in exploring the possihility of a lifetime 
Sox, said Friday he hopes own­of service as a Holy_ Cross priest or hrother. 
ers will make an expansion Scholarship assistance is availahlc. 
decision by December or January, then vote on teams by Call or write for information: 
February. 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon, C.S.C.

"If there's not a (new collec­Congregation of Holy Cross tive bargaining agreement), it's Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 unlikely we can make a positive (219) 631-63X5recommendation," Harrington said. 
t 

FACULTY UPPER ROOM 
SERIES 
"FAITH AND PROFESSIONAL LIFE" 
' 
An opportunity to reflect with colleagues and spouses/guests on the integration of spiritual concerns and professional challenges and demands. 
TUESDAY 
8 November 1994 
Faculty Dining Room of the South Dining Hall Dinner at 7:00p.m.-Discussion until9:00 p.m. 
Speaker Carolyn M. Callahan Associate Professor of Accountancy "Trailblazing: The Value of Faith and Commitment in Academe" 
Reservations: Return the form received in the mail or simply call John Gerber, C.S.C. at 1-8601 or Sharon Harwell at 1-8607 by Thursday, November 3. 
A donation of$5.00 at the door or by check made out to Campus Ministry can help defray the expenses of the dinner. 

Co-Sponsored by: Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns 

By CHRIS SHERIDAN 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
In addition to considering where expansion teams may be placed, baseball owners also are considering the price tag: expected to be well over $100 million. 
Five groups are vying for the two new franchises that are expected to be added to the major leagues in 1997 or 1998. Groups from St. Petersburg, Fla. and Phoenix and two from northern Virginia will make formal presentations Tuesday to the owners' expansion com­mittee. 



A group seeking a team for Orlando, Fla., will make its pre­sentation at a later date because one of its lawyers, Paul Jacobs, must testify Tuesday at a trial involving Mickey Monus, one of the original members of the Colorado Rockies' group. 
A decision on expansion will not be made until there's a new collective bargaining agree­ment, said expansion commit­tee head John Harrington. 
Harrington, the chief execu­
Tuesday, November 1, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
'J 
• MEw's Sm::cER 
1-800-TALK-USA 
MCC Tournament awaits Irish 
' $ $
America's Inexpensive way to call collect 
( l The more;save Mom & Dad, the more they have to a$you ' 
after rough end to tough season 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT tournament. This rematch Indiana in their first game of Sports Writer allowed the Irish a chance for the tournament. revenge. Yet, history repeated Yet, it was the Irish that ap­
While many students fled to itself as midfielder Shea Huston peared to be the better team as their respective homes for fall and forward Travis Roy led a they took the early lead off a break, the Notre Dame men's steady Badger attack and con­goal from defender Chris Dean. 
soccer continued to work as 
tributed the only two goals of The Titans came back and tied they completed their season the match. up the match in the 79th with matches against "We didn't play very well minute off a controversial Wisconsin-Madison, UCLA and against UW," Berticelli said. penalty kick. Cal State Fullerton. "We started out very slow, but The match then proceeded to Entering the matches, 
played well towards the end. overtime where Tom Oates Wisconsin was ranked No. 18, 
By then it was too late." scored for the Irish in the 20th UCLA was No. 4, and Cal State 
The Irish then traveled to minute of overtime. Yet, be­Fullerton had just beaten No. 1 
sunny California to play in the cause overtime is not sudden Indiana 3-2. The Irish were 8­
UCLA Adidas-Met Life Classic. death in soccer, the m·atch con­7-1 and were hoping to end the 
Here they faced both the Bruins tinued until the full 30 minutes season with a winning record. and the Titans. had past. The Titans took Yet, their record fell to 8-9-2 
advantage of this ruie and tied as they lost to the Badgers 2-0 The Irish faced the Bruins the game again off a goal from and the Bruins 4-0, and tied the first in the tournament, and the Matt Brandbury with five min­
Titans 2-2. 

rankings held to form as the utes left in overtime. "These are three very good 
Bruins powered past the Irish. teams," coach Mike Berticelli While the Bruins only led by Thus, the game ended in a 2-2 said. "Last year UCLA was one one going into half time, thanks tie and the Irish completed the 
or two, Cal State Fullerton was 
to a Greg Vanney goal, they season with an 8-9-2 record. in the fmal four and Wisconsin slammed the door on the Irish The good news for the Irish is beat Indiana in the tournament. by scoring three goals in the that they qualified for the We wanted to end the season first 19 minutes of the second Midwestern Collegiatewith the strongest series of half to give them the 4-0 win. Conference tournament, and 
teams we could." 
In their final game of the the NCAA tournament is still a In the first round of the tour­
UCLA tournament, the Irish possibility . The M.C.C. tourna­nament last year, the Badgers 
faced a Titan team that was on ment will be held at Notre knocked the Irish out of the 
fire after a victory over No. 1 Dame from Nov. 3 to Nov. 6. 
TOLL FREE INFORMATION AND RESERVATIONS 
Have something to say?



1•800•SUNCHASE 
:~.~NOBODY DOES SKI BREAKS BETTER! 
Use Observer classifieds. 



....... 

There is no growth of the moral and mental powers of the self if the self alone is the ultimate goal of learning. Independence of an enduring kind, noble and practical, arrives only when one realizes what it means, in all its glory and responsibility, that one is not alone. 
A. Bartlett Giamatti Center for President of Yale Univ. (1978-86) 

Concerns  
Julia Barry Dana Cabral  Congratulations and thanks to the over 150  Melissa Bambino Patricia Banlewlcz  
Stephanie Elson Rubiccla Expinoza  participants in the  Thomas Busam Larry Caudillo  
Amanda Kay Keith Knudsen  Appalachia Seminar  Greg de Sousa Patrick Duffy  
Christopher Kubycheck  Meredith Dwyer  
Huong Mai Theresa McCaffrey  Washington Seminar &  Cynthia Egan Kelly flynn  '·  
Ellen Sova  Renaldo Jacinto  
TeckTeng Melissa Yim  Cultural Diversity Seminar  Don Kingston Sara Kurokawa  
Isaac Duncan  DiepLe  
Simon McLain  
Angie Appleby  Molly McShane  
Shannon Dunn Mike Egan  who represented Notre Dame and Saint Mary's  Christopher Mueller Cheryl O'Brien  
Tim Hipp Tara Naughton  during Fall Break in service and experiential learning  Kathryn O'Donnell Katie Walter  
Laura Stolpman Mellisa Wein  at fifteen sites across the nation.  Michael Wong Katrina Worman  
Colleen McGrath  
Rupert Aguila William 0. Albertin~ Jr.  Deanna L. Cankar Rebecca Cantwell  Shawn Delfausse Keith E. Deussing  Genna Gwynn Cara Happel  Jackie LaM ear Melinda Lerch  Victoria A. Mullek Robert V. Mundt  TonyPohlen Emily Portune  Christopher Setti Carol P. Showel  
Marina T. Alkidas Amy Amador Anne C. Anderson  Stacy S. Carel Ellen Carey Joseph P. Carney  Michael J. Doty Michelle L. Drury Patrick M. Duffy  Leah Harty Colleen Hilferty Michael J. I !ill  Karen T. Luke Karen MacKenzie Elena Maguire  Elizabeth A. Murchison Anne Niebler  Cynthia Poulakidas Robert Purcell Meghan Quigley  Kevin S. Sieja Kara Slowiaczek Kevin M. Sovers  ·-.  
Kent Anderson Alexander T.  Mark Carolin Patrick Carroll  Marilyn]. Duffy Hannah Dunn  Heather Hughes Kevin S. Hutchinson  Elizabeth Mandile Mercy Martin  Liza Nykiel Jean O'Connor  Colleen M. Quinn Catherine Quinn  Andrea Squatrito Gretchen M. Stephans 
Andreichuk  Stephen Caswell  Patricia Dwight  Kira C. Hutchinson  Kim T. Massman  Joseph V. O'Malley  Liz Ragen  Jennifer R. Szarek  
Jesse Barrett Frank Barry  Laura A. Clamon Charles J. Oarke  Laura Eidietis Oara A. Finneran  Edward A. Imbus Robert C. Johnigan  Elizabeth McAvoy Kathleen M. McCann  Megan M. O'Neill Christine M. O'Reilly  Andrea Ray Tom Rinehart  Oanh Vo Kim West  
Lynn Bauwens  Peter Coleman  Meghan Fitzgerald  Mindi R Kalogera  Meghan McCarthy  Mary E.  Alexis A. Roche  Jama M. Williamson  
Bart Bogus! Elizabeth K Bowen  Catherine A. Comer Jonathan A. Coury  Vince Friedewald Vivian Gembara  Kathleen D. Kanis Patrick R. Kenny  Yvonne McCray Marcela McNeill  O'Shaughnessy Mildred Odicino  Steven P. Rossigno John T. Ruskusky  Christy Yakamavich Carlos A. Zamudio  
Kathleen Bresnahan  Elizabeth Cuevas  April Gerber  Kacy M. Kilner  Katie Meyer  Tara Olayvar  Matthew J. Ryan  Laura Zawadski  
Heather A. Broering  Benjamin A. Dedo  Katharine A. Good  Erin C. Kish  Thomas Miller  Rebecca A. Petersen  Megan E. Ryan 
Kara Cain  Katie DeCoursey  David Gunther  Christopher Kocourek  Cecylia K. Mizcra  Robert D. Piecuch  Todd Schmidt  

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 1, 1994 
._ Nebraska tops A.P. poll 
after its worst loss in 48 years. 
Texas A&M fell four spots af­ter a 21-21 tie with Southern Methodist, which has won only once all season. 
"It seems like a loss. It was a very disappointing game for us," coach R.C. Slocum said after Texas A&M's 26-game winning streak in the Southwest Conference was ended. 
Duke tumbled seven spots af­ter being roughed up 59-20 by No. 8 Florida State. The Blue Devils became the latest victim of the Seminoles, who have not lost in the Atlantic Coast Conference since joining in 1992. 
"The rest of the league is competitive, but not like this," Duke quarterback Spence Fischer said. "Until someone can compete with their speed, it's going to be a while before they lose." 
OVER 25 YEARS AT 

Associated Press 
The list of undefeated teams keeps getting shorter as the season lasts longer. 
The number was cut from eight to six during the weekend as No. 7 Colorado and No. 23 Duke lost. Another undefeated team, No. 11 Texas A&M, got its first blemish of the season when it was tied by SMU. 
Nebraska replaced Penn State as No. 1 on Sunday in The Associated Press media poll af­ter a decisive 24-7 win over Colorado. The Cornhuskers had been No. 3, but moved up after dropping the then-No. 2 Buffaloes on Saturday. 
Penn State, meanwhile, is No. 1 in the USA Today-CNN coach­
• 
es' poll after overwhelming Ohio State 63-14. Ohio State had been No. 21, but was knocked out of the rankings 

TOWING SERVICE 
AUTO • VAN • LIGHT TRUCK SAME LOCATION 
PROFESSIONAL TOWING SERVICE 
•WHEEL LIFT ROLL BACK LOCAL & LONG DISTANCE TOWING VISA 
.... ~-.. :.. :._,: 

•JUMP STARTS 
•BRAKES • SHOCKS • EXHAUSTS 
10% OFF TOWING SERVICES WITH STUDENT ID 


COMPLETE AUTO REPAIR SERVICE 
TUNE UPS • CERTIFIED MECHANIC ON DUTY 
AIR CONDITIONING SERVICE COMPLETE ENGINE REPAIR 

Few people wt/1 ever set foot in an office At OCS you'll develop the qualities you need to be-like this. But then, few people have what it takes to be -come a Marine Officer Invaluable training that could a Manne Officer Officer Candidates School (OCS) is lead to an exciting career in avtation. If you've got the first step towards preparing you for a what it takes to be a leader of Marines, you
Marin 
future beyond anything you could imagine. es could get an office with a spectacular view 
The few. The Proud. The MmiiH'S. 
MARINE OFFICER 
If you arl' loo"ing fur an L'xciting carl'L'r after 4 year' of sitt1ng hl'hind a des". stop by the Ofi'iccr Selection booth and talk to Captain Swanson or Staff Ser_l!eant Cukr or call I-Xll0-lJ4.'i-.10XX. 
~SophOmore Literary~ ~ * * Festival * * ~ 



~ Student Reading ~ 
. .. Take this opportunity to read on 
the very stage where Allen Ginsburg, Margaret Atwood, Kurt Vonnegut, and Tennessee Williams have all once read!!! 
:*Sophomore Literary Festival is inviting students to : • submit work (poetry and prose) for its 1st Annual • • Student Reading, to be held February 14, 1995• 
:*All submitting writers are required to attend an oral : : audition on Thursday, Nov. 10. Writers must •
•

• read a short (5-1 0 min.) selection and submit a • : written copy of that selection to the judges as well. : 
:*More info on the audition will be announced any day, : : so be attentive to future ads and signs! :
*ANY QUEST/ONS?...ca/1 Kate at #4828 * 
Greatness comes with the Number I. 

·­
Try SUBWAY's new A.1. Steak &Cheese six·inch sub for just $1.99 with the purchase of amedium soft drink. For alimited time only. 


For the first time in the program's history, the Notre Dame women's soccer team sits atop the polls. 
For along time hopefully. 


Tuesday, November 1, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
\J}E.'t>I"D \T! WE ::o_<: ~oN! WE "EE-AT • ~~"~!! ' 
·~ 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 



Tu-,,-l>oE.sr< ·,-01-1 fY\P..K£. \-\E.cP, l)oo h:> ~£. \-\\JIZII NCojj 5-r.-p \)!OS ... 
BILL WATTERSON 



DILBERT 
PROBLEI'\ · OUR PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT PROCESS REQUIRES BUY-IN FROM MANAGERS WHO'D BE HAPPIER IF WE ALL DIED 
SCOTT ADAMS 
YOU LOOKED 
DIRECTLY AT 
THE BULB 
AGAIN 


f"\Y SOLUTION IS TO CREATE EXECUTIVE OVER­SIGI-\T GROUPS WHO DON'T UNDERSTAND THE 
ISSUES AND DON'T 
HAVE Tif"\E TO MEET. 
J 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Literary Brei 
6 From Cardiff 11 Fairy queen 14 Low-cholesterol 
spreads 15 Winged 16 Senora Peron 17 Rogue 19 Morning 
dampness 20 Not an expert 21-greens 23 Protein source 24 Chicle product 28 Lemon zest 
source 27-monkey 30 1945 meeting 
site 33 Fruit juice blend 

36--cit. (footnote abbr.) 38 Canal to the Baltic 39 Hubbub 40Rowdyone 43 Granada gold 44 Pocket item? 460pus­(work of God) 47 Off-campus nonstudent 49 Circus walker 
51 Mexican state bordering Arizona 
53 Zhivago's love 55 Diarist Ana'is 56 Cousin of the 
emu so Brownie ingredients 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

~ 
63 Peanuts 65 "-ever catch you ..." 66 Stew 68 Avant-garde prefix 69 Sri Lankan native 70 Since: Sp. 71 Possess 72 Prepared to testify 73 c, H8 o•. e.g. 
DOWN 
1 Wedding dances 2 Hertz rival 3 Satisfy a debt 4 "Just for 
openers ..." 5 Suffix with opal 6 Carroll's 
carpenter's 
companion 7 Addition 8 Secular 9 Small porch 
10 Regatta site 11 Cab symbol 12 State 
categorically 
13 Floozy 18 Bored 22 Washington news source, maybe 25 Vertical dividing bar in windows 
32 Burn soother 33 Snoozes 34Abridge, 
perhaps 35 Do for debs 37 Benin's largest 
city 41 Bandleader Brown 42 Neither's 
counterpart 45 Author Paton 48 Coloratura's 
sounds 
You just aepar•ted your trash. 
Recycling llyou·d You will lstasy,l•n'tll? llketoknowmore, lind Intact. takinQthefirsl
'""" 
ll'soneof postcard to step toward recycling theusiestways the Environmental t.tnblaseasy you personally Defense Fund·RecycliRQ. lnprtct!Ce canm.~kethewor1d 2S7 ParlAve.South. as !tis abenerptace NY, NY, 10010. here on paper 
RECYCLE 
It's the everyday way to save the world. 


lnterhall Basketball Men & Women Club Basketball Grad-Faculty-Staff Basketball lnterhall Hockey Grad-Faculty-Staff Hockey 
Entry Forms are available in the RecSports Office, JACC 
.. 

50 They're sometimes blind 52 Be finicky 54 Attorney­57 Thieves' work 58Wearaway 
59 "Mary Tyler Moore Show" co-star 
so Souse 61"-Good Men" &20riental 
combat 64 Ye-Shoppe 67 Russian for 
"peace" 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

TEAM TARGET SHOOTING CONTEST MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14 4-6PM TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15 4-6PM CO-REC TEAMS: 2 WOMEN & 2 MEN PER TEAM 
OPEN TO ALL CNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE STUDENTS TO BE HELD AT THE STADICM FIRI!\G RA:\/GE 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY RESERVE A TI\'IE IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS DEADLI:-\E: THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10 
CONDUCTED BYNOTRE DAMENAVAL ROTC 
MEMBERS OFROTCRIFLE SQIIAD NOTEUGIBLE~ 

~ ~ ~ 
. 631-6100 
-' ... 

• I ' .. L ...... ·.... ~ .­
SCHEDULE WaterPolo 11/4 & 5 Home E.Mich Ball St. Bowling Green Sailing 11-5 &6Away Univ. oflowa Rowing 11/6Away Atlanta 



Irish stomp Chaump, Navy, 58·21 




SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, November 1, 1994 

• WOMEN'S SOCCER 




Still Perfect 
No. 1 Notre Dame set to host the MCC tournament, and more 
ByRIAN AKEY Hall is a tradition reserved for Associate Sports Editor the football team, the Irish don't feel slighted. In fact, 
After a season-long series of 
some players even believe that highly visible wins, milestones, 
the sign may be more of a jinxand records, the Notre Dame 
than anything else. women's soccer team secured 
"We were joking that last year their first-ever No. 1 ranking when they lit the sign for the last weekend in a typically 
football team, they lost their modest fashion. next game," said sophomoreAfter scrapping to a 6-0-1 Kate Fisher, "so maybe it's 
record against top-20 teams better that it won't be lit." earlier in the season, it was The cautious final step from neat wins over unranked Ohio 
No. 2 to No. 1 illustrates the State and Detroit Mercy in their paradoxical belief the Irish final regular season home se­squad seems to have held ries which helped the Irish tip­throughout the season: every toe into the top spot. match, regardless of the oppo­The No. 1 ranking was va­nent, is equally important-or
cated for the first time since unimportant. Since the begin­1990 by North Carolina, after a ning of the year, the Irish have 3-2 loss to Duke. 
been focused on the NCAA And even though the lighted No. 1 sign on the top of Grace see NO. 11 page 12 
their way into the top ten on the strength of an upset win over Floirda. 
The Observer/Brian Hardy Rosella Guerrero (foreground) and Michelle McCarthy have been key factors in Notre Dame rise to the top spot in the national rankings. The Irish are 6-0-1 against top twenty foes this season . 
• VOU.EYBAll 


Irish crack top ten, defeat Florida 
Spikers breeze through break 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 

The No. 10 Notre Dame vol­leyball team did anything but rest over fall break. Besides breaking into the coveted top ten, highlights of the team's six matches in nine days include beating an eighth ranked University of Florida team and winning four conference matches to put themselves on top of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. 
The Irish kicked off their break with wins over confer­ence rivals Xavier and Butler last weekend. The Irish swept Xavier in three games 15-6, 15­9, 15-11 on Friday night, and also came up with a clean sweep of the Bulldogs 15-9, 15­11, and 15-11 on Saturday night. 
The team was handed their second loss of the season by Florida State on Monday. The Seminoles defeated the Irish in four games 15-10, 8-15, 17-15, and 15-12. Outside hitters Luiza Ramos and Deanna Bosschart combined for over 50 kills for Florida State. The Seminoles' outside attack was a key in their victory over the Irish. 
"Both of their outside hitters played very well against us," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown. 
Another possibility for the Irish loss could have been the 
anticipated match against eighth ranked Florida on Friday. 
"We somewhat looked past Florida State, but not really," said Brown. "Give them credit. They played very well against us." 
The high point of the week, and the season thus far for the Irish, was a victory over the No. 8 Florida Gators on Friday. The Irish came back after los­ing the first game to beat the Gators 9-15, 15-8, 15-8, and 15-7. It was only the second time that Florida has been beaten at home in three years. The Gators have a 65-2 record in Cainsville over the last three seasons. 
"It was a major victory to beat 
see VOLLEYBALL/ page 12 


of note...
MEN'S SOCCER 
The Irish are hosting the MCC tornament 
"We showed a lot of depth and a 

this weekend. They need to win it to qualify 
high maturity level this weekend." 

for the NCAA tournament. 
Hockey forward Tim Harberts 
See page 13 






