
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Salmon, steelhead tear up Saint Joseph River 
Catch of the Day 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
Associate News Editor 
Who is the fool that thinks Chinook Salmon can be caught in the St. Joe River? 
Who is the moron that suspects that at this very moment Steelhead are swimming through South Bend on their way upstream to spawn? 
What kind of buffoon assumes a person can fly-fish in the state of Indiana!? 
Well, a nursery rhyme says words will never hurt anybody, but South Bend area anglers are saying sticks-in particular, fishing rods-are landing some of the biggest salmon and steel­head this side of the Pacific Northwest. 
"We're in the midst of our fall salmon run on ~~~--~---the St. Joe River right'Right now the now," said Louie Stout, cost of a fishing a free-lance outdoors 
writer who works out license and a of Mishawaka. "It usu-salmon tag is about ally starts early to mid-the same as a September and peaks
at the first of October." 
round Of golf' And the Chinook that 
_Randy Lang are running are aver­----~-~--aging anywhere from 10-14 pounds, with some anglers landing fish 25 pounds and up. 
It all dates back to the early 1960s, accord­ing to Randy Lang, manager of the Bodine State Fish Hatchery in Mishawaka.. Lang said there was a tremendous influx of the Alewife fish, a shad-like fish native to the Atlantic Ocean, in the 50's and 60's as a result of the Great Lakes canal system constructed early in the 20th century. 
The Alewife overpopulated the lakes and the 
species suffered massive winter kill beginning 
in the early 60s. 
"They had to bring in payloaders and bull-
see CATCH/ page 4 
STANFOR . 
.....,..._,.....,,'WEEKEND. 
Friday, September 30 
3:00 pm 
4:00pm­5:30 
4:45 pm 
6:45 pm 7:00pm 
7:30 
pm 

7:30 
pm 


9:00 am 9:30am 
10:30 
am 

10:30 
am 


11:00 am 
12:00 pm 1:10pm 1:35pm 
post game 30 min post game 45 min post game 7:30pm 
6,7,8,9:30 &11 am 8, 10 & 
11:45 am 1:00pm Football Weekend Social, Morris Inn Patio Center for the Homeless Immersion Experience, Meet at Main Circle (bring own transportation) Glee Club Open Rehersal, Crowley Hall Band Step Off for Pep Rally, Band Building Pep Rally, JACC Gate 10 Volleyball (Alumni vs '94 Varsity) JACC Arena lacrosse Exhibition Game (vs Philadelphia All-Stars), Moose Krause Field 

Saturday, October 1 
Alumni Hospitality Center, JACC Alcoholics Anonymous Meeting, CSC Porn Pon Squad Per1ormance, JACC Cheerleading Per1ormance, Bookstore Cheerleading Per1ormance, JACC Marching Band Step Off, Main Building Marching Band Pre-Game, Stadium NO vs STANFORD, Stadium Alumni Hospitality Center, JACC Mass, Basilica of theSacred Heart 
Mass, The Crypt, Sacred Heart Parish 
Volleyball (vs louisville), JACC Arena 

Sunday, October 2 
Mass, The Crypt, Sacred Heart Parish 
Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Men's Soccer (vs UW Milwaulkee), Behind Jake Kline Field 
The Observer/Robert Bollman, Jr. 

John Dickenson of South Bend fishes for salmon in the St. Joseph River. 
see SERVE I page 4 

with a vengance 

ND seeks role in global economy 
Deregulation helps investments 
By MELANIE LAFLIN 
News Writer 
Deregulation, the growth of non-U.S. markets, and its im­plications on U.S. investments are all reasons for the continu­ing globalization 
of markets, according to Robert Conway, the former man­aging director of Goldman S a c h s Internationa! Corporation in 
L 0 n d 0 n . Scott Malpass 
Conway and Scott Malpass, University of Notre Dame's chief investment officer, addressed the Notre Dame Coun-cil on International Business Development last night in the University Club. 
Both speakers commented on the continuing globalization of financial markets in relation to the global investing of the Notre Dame Endowment. Conway, who received his bachelor's degree from Notre Dame, found Margaret 
SURV growth not on hold 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Despite several major snags, the student proposal for a new and improved service center at Saint Mary's, presented to College President William Hickey last May, has not been 
• see EDITORIAL, page 14 
put on hold, according to Sister Rose Anne Shultz, direc­tor of administration and mis­sion at Saint Mary's. 
The proposal designed to ex­pand the Spes Unica Resource and Volunteer Center (S.U.R.V.) called specifically for a larger, more accessible office and a full time coordina­tor, preferably one of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
The original plan involved building an office in the base­ment of Holy Cross Hall. After an architect researched it over the summer, however, it was determined that an office in that location would not pass certain building codes. 
The second snag in the plan involved finding a Sister of the Holy Cross to staff the opera­tion. 
After meeting with Sister Catherine O'Brien, President of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, at the end of last year, the stu­dents who wrote the proposal found that she cannot simply appoint a member of the con-
Thatcher to be instrumental in accelerating privatization, which, he said, is fundamental to the rapid change in wealth in the economy of the world. London has become "the fi­nancial center of Europe over the last two decades," Conway said He suggested that "a U.S. investor's dollar return would be greater if (their) dollars were invested outside the United States." 
Malpass, CIO and secretary to the Investment and Finance Commitee of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees, is kept busy making decisions on the $920 million Notre Dame Endow­ment and developing a $40 mil­lion pension plan for the non­academic employees. 
Both domestic and global eq­uities are allocated 29% in the Endowment plan. U.S. and foreign equities lower risk and increase return. 
"Putting money overseas" seems to be the best approach considering 20% of U.S. output is being produced by foreign workers. One-fourth of 
. American exports have foreign labels," he said. Examples of successful foreign businesses included "IBM Japan earning $6 billion" and Whirlpool in Mexico. 
After his recent trip to Mexico, Malpass was very much impressed with the way the economy was being man­aged. Meeting leaders of the government, Malpass found "the stereotype of the poor management of the Mexican economy to be unfounded." Real GOP growth rates have in-. creased overseas. The global approach has created many joint ventures of companies. 
The Notre Dame Endowment has been the third fastest grow­ing of the top thirty in the coun­try. Though global investing is less predictable, "successful in­vestment can lead to the lowering of tuition growth rates." · The Notre Dame Endowment has one-third of its investments overseas. By investing abroad, endowment has increased by 20 million dollars." 
Inter-national investments began in 1984 with a global bond port-folio and emerging markets in 1991." Along with the hiring of global managers, the endowment now includes the allocation of global private equity. 
The Notre Dame Endowment, which has grown to $920 mil­lion, is expected to double in ten years. 
------------··-~·~----~ -------~-----~ 
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, September 30, 1994 

• INSUJE COUJMN 


Where will the road less taken lead? 
I was watching an By VIVIAN episode of "Coach" the GEMBARA other night as a means 
Assistant News Editor 
of relaxing after a typi­cally stressful day. Hayden Fox, the head coach of the Screaming Eagles Football team, had just led his team to a collegiate national championship. Seeing as how the subject of football and national championships are common here on campus, I decided not to change the station. 
The story goes that Hayden receives a phone call for a possible job as the head coach of a pro-football team. After express­ing his great interest in the job and interview­ing for it, he is ultimately turned down. The following scene shows Hayden miserable and depressed, discrediting the fact that he still has a national title to defend and the colle­giate football world at his feet. 
The majority of my fellow viewers expressed no sympathy or understanding for Hayden's feelings, but rather disdain at his sour mood. 
Personally, I wish I saw more of Hayden's mentality. He is disgruntled because he's a determined individual with goals and more goals after he's done with the first set. He saw a championship and worked hard to win it. 
There's nothing wrong with always having a goal to work towards. Desires and the will to go after them makes life tick. Hayden's attitude is a healthy one because it doesn't allow for boredom and self-pity. Instead, it inspires one to push harder with a purpose. 
No doubt there's the risk factor in having goals and acting on them. Failure is an ever­present reality, as seen in Hayden's rejection from the job. Sadly enough, this factor is so strong that I've seen it turn some people bit­ter enough to begin resenting others determi­nation. This is a dangerous and unhealthy thing. However, these people comprise a small part of the group, the rest of us are usually just bored and hoping tomorrow will hold something exciting to feast our atten­tions on. 
O.K., let's get this straight, I don't advocate manic or obsessively motivated behavior in any form. It is just that sometimes when we settle for the here and now we fail to see what tomorrow may bring. 
Many times, life's best opportunities are not built into our own ambitious little game­plans. Ifwe forget about striving for success for a minute and start thinking about what excites us and makes life bearable, then maybe these unpredictable and perhaps ran­dom opportunities will become less random. 
Just think how even more exciting it would be with those ideas in mind. What would happen? The possibilities are endless. However, when you've resolved that goal, whether the outcome be positive or negative, don't waste too much time dwelling on the results. For it is now time to look around for something more. 
The views expressed· in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Production Dave Tyler Belle Baurisra Edward Imbus Jackie Moser 
Sports RianAkey Accent George Dohrman Mary Good Viewpoint Tom Roland Suzy Fry Lab Tech Graphics Brandon Candura Roben Bollman 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction tights are reserved. 
• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 
Killer of top Mexican party leader was paid in conspiracy 
MEXICO CITY 
The man who killed a leading ruling party politician was offered money to commit the murder and police are seek­ing two accomplices, Attorney General Humberto Benitez Trevino said Thursday. 
Benitez told a news conference that Daniel Aguilar Trevino, from the north­ern border state of Tamaulipas, had confessed to Wednesday's assassination of Jose Francisco Ruiz Massieu, the No. 2 man in the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party. · 
He said Aguilar told police he had been offered 50,000 pesos -the equiv-. alent of $15,000-to commit the murder. 
But he gave no hint about the motive for the murder of Ruiz Massieu -a mystery that has created massive spec­ulation. 
Newspapers and political analysts offered a stream of possible motives behind Wednesday's assassination: a warning by drug gangs to Ruiz Massieu's prosecutor brother; a battle between reformers and hard-liners in the ruling party; an attempt to destabilize the country; a private feud. 
Benitez said police were hunting for two other suspects: Carlos Angel Cantu, who allegedly approached Aguilar with the offer, and Fernando Rodriguez Gonzalez, who apparently was in charge of the operation. 
He said Aguilar stayed at Rodriguez' house for the last four days before the killing and shot Ruiz Massieu with a TEC-9 9mm automatic pistol. The 28­year-old, crewcut gunman was cap­tured immediately. 

Many Mexicans are skeptical about the honesty of police and of their will­ingness to solve such crimes. 
Suspicions remain high over the gov­ernment's contention a Roman Catholic cardinal slain in May 1993 was acciden­tally caught in a crossfire between rival drug dealers. Many also reject the theo­ry a lone gunman was behind the March 23 killing of Luis Donaldo Colosio, then the ruling party's presi­dential candidate. 
Ruiz Massieu was governor of Guerrero, a poor state noted for violence and drug culti­vation, from 1987 to 1993. This year, he became No. 2 man in the ruling party and was elected to congress in August. 
He also is a former brother-in-law of President Salinas. His brother, Mario, is the deputy attorney general in charge of investigating drug traffickers, including the fugitives accused of killing Cardinal Juan Jesus Posadas Ocampo last year in Guadalajara. 
In El Universal, columnist Guillermo Fabela Quinones linked the killing to the Colosio assassination, saying it is further evidence of a struggle between reformers and hard-liners within the ruling party. 
Even the representative of Colosio's family, Juan Velazquez, suggested it might be possible to find "a com­mon denominator" between the murders. 
Laser scalpel eases brain surgery 
NEW YORK 
Scientists say they have found a way to make a laser 
cut brain tissue with unprecedented precision and that it 
could reduce side effects for some kinds of brain surgery. 
Surgeons usually do not use current lasers within the 
brain because of damage to healthy tissue next to the 
areas cut or vaporized, said researcher Dr. Michael 
Copeland of the Vanderbilt University Medical School in 
Nashville, Tenn. Such a laser could be used for proce­
dures like destroying troublesome brain tissue to control 
pain and removing tumors within the brain, Copeland 
said. By sparing more healthy tissue than current tech­
niques do, the laser surgery could ease such side effects 
as speech impairment, weakness and numbness, 
Copeland said. The researchers say that a laser s.et to 
the right wavelength causes less damage than other fre­
quencies because it melts tissue proteins before vaporiz­
ing the tissue's water. So the proteins don't act like 
shrapnel when the water explodes. 
"Black boxes" made for trains, buses 
LIVERMORE, Calif. 
A major spill in the Sacramento River of 18,000 gallons 
of herbicide in a train derailment has given rise to a new 
invention, called a "green box," that could minimize 
future spills. The box, similar to the "black boxes" now 
carried aboard aircraft, could keep track of trains, 
trucks and buses. Although both boxes are designed to 
survive disasters, the green box would be in action dur­
ing the trip, broadcasting information such as location 
and whether the vehicle is still upright. . The $200,000 
sensor-packed box calculates its position from data it 
receives from satellites. It also can be connected to sen­
sors on the vehicle's brakes or other safety systems and 
monitor them for dangerous conditions or needed main­
tenance. The lab recently successfully tested the proto­
type on a local bus, pinpointing the vehicle's location on 
a computer-generated map at the lab. Officials plan to 
concentrate on using the green box in the railroad indus­
try, beginning in New Mexico, where the main Sandia lab 
is located. 

Disney changes site for new park 
RICHMOND, Va. 

Under attack from historians and environmentalists, Disney abandoned plans Wednesday to build an American history theme park near Haymarket, not far from where the two Civil War battles of Bull Run were fought. "Implicit in our vision for the park is the hope that it will be a source of pride and unity for all Americans. We certainly cannot let a particular site 
_undermine that goal by becoming a source of divisive­ness," said PeterS. Rummell, president of Disney Design and Development Co. Disney's plans for the 3,000-acre, $625 million park 35 miles from Washington had called for up to 2,280 houses, 1,340 hotel rooms and 1.96 mil­lion square feet of retail and commercial space. Disney's America park was to open in 1998. A barrage of law­suits began soon after the project was announced in November and Rummell said Wednesday, "It has become clear that we could not say when the park would be able to open, or even when we could break ground." 
College computer craze continues 
SAN FRANCISCO 

The most important thing for an incoming freshman at many universities today isn't beer or fake ID -it's an Internet account. At the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, new students are given e-mail accounts and assigned temporary dormitory rooms for the first week of school, then the lottery begins for permanent room assignments through e-mail. Marisol Munoz, a junior at Stanford, can log in and sign up for all her fall classes just by typing in the course codes. When the psychology and Spanish major needed to get an extension on a paper, she e-mailed her professor. "I've had several pro­fessors who frequently get e-mail and bring up the ques­tion in class the next day. They say 'I got mail about this and I want to talk about it before we start class,"' Munoz said. The Internet has changed college life in other ways, too. Want to order Chinese or pizza? Just post a message on t~e "fud" (pronounced "food") channel at MIT and see who else on-line wants to go in on it with you. 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 30. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 50s 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V1a Assoc/at8d PrtJSS 
Atlanta  82  59  Dallas  89  67  Minneapolis 60  49  
Baltimore  75  53  Denver  72  46  New Orleans 82  76  
Boston  64  46  New York  69  53  
Chicago  68  57  Los Angeles 82  67  Philadelphia 74  53  
Columbus  77  54  Miami  84  75  Phoenix  96  71  

Friday, September 30, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 


USAF blames pilot for crash 
By JOHN WILEY three months before the crash. aggressive and often at vari­Associated Press Former Fairchild base com­ance with existing regulations," manding officers were blamed investigators concluded. SPOKANE, Wash. for failing to recognize the pi­Telephone calls to Holland's 
A hot-dog pilot whom supe­lot's "excessively aggressive" home weren't answered rior officers failed to ground flying at previous air shows and Thursday. caused the crash of a B-52 during missions since 1991. Holland had violated Air bomber at Fairchild Air Force Several officers could face Force flying regulations at least Base, the Air Force said disciplinary action, Lt. Gen. seven times since 1991, the in­
Thursday. Thomas Griffith said at a news vestigation found. On several 
conference to release the Air occasions he was reprimanded. 

-~
An Air Force investigation Force report Thursday. Griffith, McGeehan, the 325th Bomb 
into the June 24 crash that who convened the investigation Squadron commander, had 
killed the four top base officers board, wouldn't comment on asked in March that the 
aboard concluded that the pilot individual cases or what types Operations Group commander 
flew the aircraft too low, pulled of discipline might be handed restrict Holland's flying privi­
up too steeply and turned too out. leges. A month later, 
sharply while practicing for an Although the board found McGeehan's request was de­
air show. "clear and convincing evidence nied, but Holland was repri­
Lt. Col. Arthur "Bud" Holland of multiple causes for this acci­manded. 
flew the $64 million plane into dent," it was clear that McGeehan, 38, tried to eject 
a stall while circling the base Holland's aggressive airman­as the bomber went down, but 
control tower at a speed and ship was at its root. the plane was too close to the altitude below those allowed by Holland, a B-52 pilot instruc­ground and in too steep a bank, Air Force regulations, investi7 tor, was considered by some the investigators said. 
gators concluded. airmen as Fairchild's most ex­
The co-pilot on the flight, Lt. perienced and knowledgeable Col. Mark McGeehan, had com­pilot. However, his airmanship plained of Holland's flying just was "characterized as overly 

Happy 21st Birthday 
[Q)©lill® ~©®W~ 
From: The Gang at Deer Run & Creative Carpet 
"He went to the senior com­mander and told him he did not think Col. Holland should be flying," McGeehan's wife, Jodie McGeehan, told The Evening Review of East Liverpool, Ohio. 
"They chose not to listen to 
The Observer/Michael Ruma

him, so Mark made the decision 
Advice on alternatives
he would be the only one to fly" with Holland on practice flights, 
Senior Maureen Riggs discusses post-graduate service work in the 
said Mrs. McGeehan, who lives 
Alliance for Catholic Education with representative Kate Barrett dur­
in Chester, W.Va. 
ing the Graduate Service Work Showcase last night. 

Tues., Sept. 27 reported the theft of numerous clothing 
9:06 am A University employee reported items from the basement storage room in 
Pasquerilla West.
Mon., Sept. 26 the theft of four tennis nets from the Eck 1:34 pm A Fisher Hall resident reported7:54 pm A Morrissey Hall resident outdoor tennis courts. 
6:24 on Security transported a Zahm the theft of his bike from the bike rack at
reported the theft of his watch from his Fisher Hall. 
Hall resident to St. Joseph's Medical Center 
room. 
for treatment of a sports injury. 
12:55 pm An Alumni Hall resident 5:39 pm Security apprehended two
reported vandalism to his vehicle while 9:12pm A Morrissey Hall resident was juveniles who attempted to steal a bike seat
transported by Security to St. Joseph
parked in the 06 parking lot. 
4:27 pm An off-campus student re­Medical Center for treatment of a sports from a bike in the Siegfried bicycle rack. injury. 6:21 pm A Grace Hall resident reported
ported the theft of his student football ticket the theft of his laundry bag from the laundry
book from his bookbag while at the Wed, Sept. 28 Hammes Bookstore. 
12:46 pm A Pasquerilla West resident room in Grace Hall. 




HIRING lJ ZJ® EMPLOYEES 
New 
High energy fast paced Some serving positio~ restaurant; cooks will use will require a
restaurant 
open flame grills for liquor serving permit. All 
•
steaks & chicken, servers will

opentng 
or wood burning ovens convey a festive for pizzas. atmosphere.

soon!! 
Apply in person Mon-Fri (10-6) at, 


page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 30, 1994 
Catch 
continued from page 1 
dozers and dump trucks to clean up tons and tons of dead fish that had washed up on the shores of Lake Michigan," Lang said. "Then the Michigan Department of Natural Resources (D.N .R.) decided they'd try importing salmon-a natural predator of shad-like Alewife-from the west coast." 
Chinook were ingested into Lake Michigan beginning in the mid-60s, and the rest is aquatic history. 
Within a few years, the Alewife overpopulation prob­lem disappeared, while the economic spinoffs of salmon fishing in the area have been nothing short of fantastic. 
"I know of a club from St. Louis that comes here every year just to fly fish for salmon while they are bedding in the St. Joe River," Stout said. 
South Bend and Mishawaka are also getting into the act by declaring October "Salmon Awareness Month," upon a proclamation issued by Mayors Joseph Kernan and Robert Beutter. Area businesses are getting involved as well. The Madison Center and Hospital is sponsoring a "Million Dollar Salmon Run" later this month. 
Right now, plastic salmon­shaped fish can be purchased at participating business throughout the area. On October 22, the plastic fish will be dumped into the St. Joe River, and Kernan will fish them out of the river for prizes, including a fish that could be worth $1 million. 
Both the Indiana and Michigan D.N.R.'s have also been stocking Steelhead, a trout which averages 10-14 pounds when full-grown, in the St. Joe River system. There are two types of steelhead that are stocked, a summer-run Skamani steelhead and a win­ter-run steelhead, Lang said. 
Summer-run spawn in the fall, whereas winter-run spawn in the spring, he added. 
Four salmon ladders exist between the mouth of the St. Joe at Lake Michigan and Mishawaka. The ladders let fish bypass dams that are along the river when they swim upstream to spawn. 
Salmon swim upstream from Lake Michigan, spawn, and die. Steelhead swim upstream, spawn, turn back to Lake Michigan and do it again the next year, Lang said. 
Since the St. Joe River is not a natural spawning habitat for salmon or steelhead, many of the eggs laid by the fish never hatch, Lang said. This ~eans hatchery's, like Bodine, are forced to take on the responsi­bility of making sure the river gets stocked each year. 
"We stock 160,000 Chinook 

WELCOME BACK 'fO CAMPUS 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
Where Great Names in GolfCome Together 
Distinctive Gifts for All Occasions Gloves, Shirts, Sweaters, Hats, Balls, Towels, Umbrellas 
Located "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 
Football Weekend Hours Fridays 6:30AM-5:30PM Saturdays 6:00AM-One hour before game Sundays 6:00AM -4:00PM Notre Dame Golf Shop -Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-6425 

that average about 3 V2 inches and 225,000 steelhead a year that are anywhere from 7 to 8 inches long," Lang said. The hatchery holds onto steelhead until they are this size so their navigation skills can fully de­velop, he added. 
"We keep the steelhead until they go through a process called smoltification-it's kind of equivalent to going through puberty," Lang said. This assures the fish will be mature enough to remember to return to the area when they spawn. 
Since 1987, when salmon first started returning from the first Bodine stocking in 1984, the results have been pleasing to both anglers and D.N.R. offi­cials, Lang said. 
Last year, the St. Joe River project to enhance salmon fish­ing won one of two national awards given annually by a professional fishing society, Lang said. The D.N.R. also has employees which survey public response. 
"We constantly monitor how many fish are caught, kept, stocked-we're keeping a very close eye on what the fish are doing," he said. 
Licenses fees for Indiana res­idents are $8.75 for a general license and $6.75 for a salmon/trout tag. Out of state residents can purchase a license for $15.7 5 plus the $6.75 salmon/trout tag. 
"Right now the cost of a fish­ing license and salmon tag is about the same as a round of golf," Lang said. "That's a pret­ty good deal considering you can fish all year long." 
Indeed it is a pretty good deal-even a fool would have to agree. 



Kamm's Island Inn 
Relax on Private Balconies Overlooking The St. Joe River 
KITCHENETTES IN ALL ROOMS LOCATED IN THE HISTORIC 100 CENTER, FEATURING RESTAURANTS, THEATRES, ANTIQUES, UNIQUE SHOPPING 
100 Center 
e 
Mishawaka, IN 
256.. 1501 

Serve 
continued from page 1 
gregation to the position. The process is complicated and finding a match for the position could take time. 
"We are very positive about the proposal," said Shultz. "It flows from the mission state­ment and will strengthen the connection with the spirit and concerns of the Sisters. It will just take time and student in­volvement to develop a plan of implementation." 
S.U.R.V. is still in operation this year despite the hold up 

Virginia votes to abolish parole 
By JEAN McNAIR 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND 
Virginia legislators voted overwhelmingly Thursday to abolish parole, the centerpiece of the governor's crime pack­age. 
The Senate endorsed the leg­islation 33-6. The House of Delegates approved a similar measure 88~10. 
The bill, proposed by Republican Gov. George Allen, now heads to a conference committee before a final vote by the legislature, expected Friday. 
If the plan is approved, Virginia will join about a dozen other states and the federal government in eliminating pa­role. 
Under current law, inmates serve as little as a sixth of their sentences. Under the new pro-with the expansion, according to Leslie McGill, S.U.R.V. coor­dinator. 
"We have taken people who worked on the proposal and who have shown prior interest in S.U.R.V., and incorporated them into commissioners on the 
S.U.R.V. board," McGill said. 
Each commissioner will be responsible for finding an agency in the community to work with. The board member will also be responsible for or­ganizing a group of students to volunteer at their specific agency, according to McGill. 
"S.U.R.V. has always served as an umbrella for service or­ganizations," McGill said. "We 
posal, they would have to serve parole-like supervision after at least 85 percent. Time off for their release. good behavior would be limited Allen has estimated that his to 15 percent of the sentence. crime package will require 27 
Criminals could still be sen­more prisons during the next tenced to up to three years of decade at a cost of $1 billion. 


r.------------------------,
!50¢ ~!u~M!~g1no YOi!irii.! 
I freshly Baked! I
wePutASmileOnYourTastet· 

Campus Shoppes : Offer good only at Campus Shoppes store _ 1837 S. Bend Ave. 1I 
L!_o!_:;~ ~t!!_a!!!: ~~o!e~~·.2,0!:!_ ___ }'!],:!1~4!!, __.J 

B
LITTLE PROFESSORR 
OOKCENTE .. 

Ironwood Plaza North 
State Road 23 at Ironwood 
South Bend • (219)277-4488 Mon.-Sat.: 9:00-9:00 Sunday: 10:00-5:00 
Where your family can have 
Fun, Fun, Fun! 





Fun Pa11 
Look at what one per1on ge11••• 
• 2 Rounds of Miniature Golf 
•1Gameof~ 
• 
A slice of Putter's Fresh-made Pizza and a Small Drink 

•1 Rideonthe~a~ • 1 0 Game tokens 

When purchased is a $14.95 value Your Everyday Low Price 
only $10·.~.!. 
Town &Country
Hours 

Shopping Center 
Mon-Thurs 10-10 

2500 Miracle Lane Fri-Sat 10-11 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 Sunday 1-10 
(219)254-01 00 
want to maintain focus on being a referral service, but this year we would also like to give students direct opportuni­ties for service without going out on their own." 
Eventually S.U.R.V. would like to have enough commis­sioners to provide service op­portunities for students several times each week, according to McGill. 
"If we are all living the Eucharist, as people of God we are called to be nourished and then to go out," said Shultz. "It has to extend ultimately into care for others. That is why service is so central to our lives." 

Friday, September 30, 1994 The Observer • THE U.S. IN HAITI page 5 
U.S. to commit more troops Grenade attack kills 
By BARRY SCHWEID ference. "That's why we have But Boxx said there are sev­Associated Press an overwhelming force of eral reasons for the larger de­
three, wounds dozens 
NEW YORK 
Additional U.S. troops will be dispatched to Haiti through the weekend to make sure potential troublemakers know the United States "dominates the scene," Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Thursday. 
They will be supplemented by a vanguard from the 28 coali­tion partners who have joined with the United States to over­see the ouster of Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras and clear the way for elected President Jean­Bertrand Aristide to return to power. 
Christopher, in New York to urge the U.N. Security Council to end its trade embargo and other sanctions against the Haitian junta, reacted calmly to the explosion of a grenade in front of thousands of pro­democracy demonstrators in Port-au-Prince. 
"This is a reminder we are in a dangerous and risky situation and will be for some time," Christopher said at a news con-troops." 
He urged reporters to bear in mind that the demonstration was in support of democracy. "The predominant mood is to welcome the multinational forces," he said. 
The Clinton administration intends to minimize dangers to Americans -apparently none were hurt in the explosion ­but "we have long recognized there are risks in the situa­tion." he said. 
According to the Pentagon about 19,600 U.S. troops are on the ground in Haiti. A spokesman there said the num­ber "may go up a little." 
The 19,600 include 1,450 mil­itary police, said spokesman Dennis Boxx, but does not the 9,200 troops and sailors on 16 naval vessels in the region. Counting those on the ships, the overall deployment totals 28,800. 
Senior Pentagon officials ini­tially anticipated only 15,000 troops would be involved in the operation. 
November 1%, 1994 _ 
Ca~:lics {{'j) , 

The Chain Gang~~0
II 
'li T-Shirts $12.00 each plus $3.00 postage & handling per shirt. Sizes: L or XL Send check or money order to: Rose of Sharon P.O Box 43 New Woodstock, NY 13122 
ployment, including the contin­
ued presence of 1,800 U.S. 
Marines in Cap-Haitien in 
northern Haiti, and the poten­
tial for violence, given Friday's 
planned demonstrations m·ark­
ing the third anniversary of the 
coup that overthrew elected 
President Jean Bertrand 
Aristide. 
The peak force deployment 
for the U.S. invasion of Panama 
in 1989 was 25,750; in the 
Persian Gulf, 541,000; and in 
Somalia, 25,800, according to 
the U.S. Army's Center for 
Military History. The center had 
no such figure for the operation 
in Grenada. 
Christopher said the troops 
would be increased to a new 
peak to be decided by military 
planners in the Defense 
Department. "We don't want to 
leave any question as to our 
ability to control the scene, to 
dominate the scene," he said. 
In Washington, meanwhile, 
the Congressional Black Caucus . called for an early withdrawal of American troops but did not 
propose any deadline. 
Divided before the U.S. inter­
vention, the 48 black members 
of Congress are now solidly be­
hind President Clinton on the 
issue. 
"This is one of the nation's 
and President Clinton's finest 
hours," the caucus said in a 
statement. 
However, Rep. John Murtha, 
D-Pa., chairman of the House 
Appropriations defense sub­
committee, ·said Clinton should 
have stayed firm and followed 
through with an invasion of 
Haiti. 
Murtha said an invasion could 
have shown the United States' 
willingness to use force in con­
flicts brewing around the 
world. 
Multicultural Fall Festival: October 2-7. 1994 sponsored by 
!Mr4ti&ullurui•!.>;Jcutive Coundi 

Come and see the 
~ARAl.jA NA~AIJl 
(INDIAN) DANCE lJROUPE 
perform on Tues.• Oc:t. 4 at 7:00 P.M. in the LaFortune Ballroom 

The dance troupe is directed by Krithika Rajagopalan. Krithika has been an ardent student of Natyakalalayam, a classical dance style of India, since the age of six. She performed by special invitation in E:r:po'(;, l in Canad.;t.. She also performed in the Southeast Asian Arts Festival in Kualahunpur. She has been a member of cultural delegations to the old U.S.S.R. She has performed all over the world and everywhere she goes she has been a hit. 
Press Comments: 
Her performance was sheer magic, bristling with complicated foot wort and a superb mime ... Morning Star, London 
She tool: the audience by storm ... her lively recital was marked by a sense of rhythm, fluidity and expressiveness at its perfected best ••• Chicago Tribune 
KritMa danced her way into the hearts of art lovers ... the sculptureque poses bore evidence of her depth of understanding of Bharata Natyam ••. Indian Express, New Delhi 
Rhythm is her forte and she revelled in it. Each dance was fascinating and brought alive the anc1ent temple sculptures of India ••• La Swiss, Geneva, Switzerland 
By JEFFREY ULBRICH 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 

In a bloody attack on the U.S.-orchestrated return to elected rule, a grenade explod­ed Thursday in front of a pro­democracy demonstration, killing three Haitians and wounding at least 31. 
Hundreds of people fled in panic, leaving the dead and injured in a circle on the ground. U.S. soldiers and mili­tary police who sped in to investigate detained three men after firing more than 200 rounds into a warehouse. 
But after they left, chaos reigned. Hundreds of Haitians looted the building of bags of cement, wooden pallets for fuel, even iron bars pulled from the foundation and gratings ripped from windows. 
.Survivors wailed along the dusty stretch of seaside Harry Truman Boulevard. 
"Are we never going to stop dying? Are we never going to stop suffering?" cried a 26­year-old woman, looking at the wounded. She identified herself only as Jesula. 
One American soldier cradled a seriously wounded Haitian man, yelling: "Hang on, buddy! Hang on, buddy!" 
The U.S. military counted 40 casualties, but did not offer a br(lakdown of dead and wounded. There were no reports of any American casu­alties. 
Among the injured were four children, including a 9-year-old boy. 
The Associated Press and 
Red Cross officials counted 
three dead at the scene, includ­
ing a man who was run over by 
a U.S. Army Humvee jeep. It 
was not known whether he was 
still alive when that happened. 
General Hospital posted a list 
of 31 wounded from the blast, 
but a local radio reporter who 
was inside the hospital said he 
counted 48 and had a list of 
names. 
The violence may complicate 
efforts to ensure a peaceful 
transition between army lead­
ers and elected President Jean­
Bertrand Aristide, ousted in a 

Ct-IOPSTJCKS 
CHINESE FAST FOOD We Deliver to your dorm! Mon-Thurs lla.m.-9p.m. Fri. & Sat. lla.m.-lOp.m. 
$6 minimum $1 service charge for orders under $15 East Location: 525 N. Eddy St. South Bend, IN 232-1177 

1991 coup . 
Angry chants of "Cedras has to leave!" arose after the explosion, referring to army chief Raoul Cedras, who has agreed to step down by Oct. 15. "We are not going. to wait!" people shouted. 
There was no immediate claim of responsibility, but marchers widely blamed pro­army gunmen who have slain thousands in political violence since soldiers deposed Aristide three years ago Thursday. Many grenades are known to be in private hands, and disar­mament has been a priority of American soldiers seeking to aid the transition to democra­cy. 
The grenade was thrown at a crowd of several thousand who had just witnessed the return of freely elected Mayor Evans Paul to his post in City Hall. The violence came on the eve of a pro-democracy march that organizers predicted would draw hundreds of thousands of people to the capital. 
Several demonstrators told the AP they saw a man throw· the grenade and run away. 
The blast sent hundreds of people running from the sea­port area, which is guarded by some of the nearly 20,000 American troops in Haiti. 

-~--·----------------~------~ ------~ ---~--------~----. 
page 6 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 16, 1994 




The Hatntnes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
uon the campus" 


Friday, September 30, 1994 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Rat worship hampers plague control NRC brings 
suit against
By DILIP GANGULY At the Karni Mata temple in India where rats are wor­week. The United Arab 
Associated Press 
NEW DELHI 
It's a health official's night­mare: tens of thousands of rats racing across the floor, feasting on fruit and candy. 
Today's Air Force offers a 
scholarship program that can help pay the cost of medical school. If selected, you can contin­ue your present studies -and stop worrying about how to pay for them. Participation is based on competitive selection. For informa­tion with no obligation, talk to an Air Force representative. Call 
AIR FORCE OPPORTUNITIES CALL COLLECT 317-848-5830 
~
........._ 
~....--IIi
-.--___. = ~='"=--="= ­
= =====----......... ...._........-__ _,._, 
the desert state of Rajastan, the effort to stifle the first outbreak of plague in 28 years takes a back seat to an old Hindu prac­tice -rat worship. 
The marble-floored temple, one of India's most famous shrines, is one of many sites in 
PAY FOR MEDICAL SCHOOL. 
shipped and fed as they breed 
and breed and breed. 
Many of the rats leap onto a 
platform where food has been 
placed under a golden umbrella 
by worshipers, while priests 
chant hymns and play cymbals. 
In Hindu mythology, the ele­
phant-headed god Ganesh is 
accompanied by a rat whenever 
he travels. No Hindu worship is 
complete without an offering to 
Ganesh and his small compan­
ion. 
During the 1940s and early 
'50s, plague routinely killed 
thousands of Indians each year 
because the impoverished na­
tion had no real health care 
program. 
On Sept. 20, for the first time 
in 28 years, Indians began dy­
ing of the plague in the western 
city of Sur at. 
Since then, the official death 
toll in the Arabian Sea port has 
risen to 54. Unofficial estimates 
are 300. 
Hundreds of thousands of ·people who fled Surat already 
have spread the disease further 
than the last major plague epi­
demic, which killed 100 people 
in a southern state in 1962. 
In 10 days, plague cases al­
ready have spread hundreds of 
miles from Surat to New Delhi 
and the states of West Bengal, 
Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra 
and Punjab. Many other states 
are examining hundreds of sus­
pected plague cases in over­
crowded hospitals. At least 250 
confirmed plague cases have 
been reported. 
On Thursday, Sri Lanka halt­
ed the repatriation of Sri 
Lankan refugees from south 
India. More than 3,000 
refugees were due next week. 
Fearing the plague could 
spread, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, 
the United Arab Emirates, 
Qatar, Oman and Bahrain sus­
pended flights to India this Emirates and Yemen sus­pended shipping. 
The deadly epidemic in this nation of 900 million people has raised concern about rats which, like cows, are deified in India. 
"This nonsense has to stop," said Kolomesh Chandra Dev, a retired government official who has started a neighborhood campaign to kill rats in New Delhi. "The time has come for people to realize it is either us or the rat." 
Even at Indian airports, few of the staff are willing to kill rats. Last year Air India, India's international carrier, had to postpone three flights to Tokyo, New York and London after rats were found in the cockpit of each plane. The airline was concerned the rats might have had damaged control panel wiring. 
Another flight from Oman to Bombay returned after takeoff when pilots found rats in the cockpit. 
In the eastern metropolis of Calcutta, where at least seven plague cases have been re­ported, Hindu residents still flock to a city park to feed the tens of thousands of rats who live there. 
Though rats infest much of India, including city shanty­towns and farms where they eat nearly one-quarter of the produce, enough to feed India for three months, Indians rarely kill rats. 
"I do trap a rat when I see one in my kitchen, but I can never kill it," Amita Roy, a resi­dent of the Vasant Kunj section of New Delhi, said Thursday. "It is a sin to kill the compan­ion of our God," said Mrs. Roy. 
At daybreak in many towns, villages and cities, Indian men and women are seen carrying rats in traps and releasing them at a distance from their homes. Rarely is one killed. 


nuclear firm 
Associated Press 
GREENBELT, Md. 

The manufacturer of a fire­retardant used in nuclear power plants was indicted on charges the company lied about safety tests that showed the product didn't work, officials said today. 
A special federal grand jury in Maryland returned the seven-count indictment against St. Louis-based Thermal Science Inc. and its president, Rubin Feldman, the Nuclear Reg-ulatory Commission said. 
Thermal Science makes Thermo-Lag 330, a fire retar­dant that is supposed to protect critical electrical lines, includ­ing those used to shut down a reactor in an emergency. The material was used in more than 70 nuclear plants between . 1982 and 1992, the indictment says. 
The insulation has failed sev­eral fire tests, once disintegrat­ing when burned. The indict­ment alleges that Thermal Science lied to federal regula­tors about their testing proce­dures. 
The indictment charges that Thermal Science conducted tests on its own product instead of having Thermo-Lag inde­
.;

pendently tested, as required by federal regulations. 
Thermal Science hired St. Louis-based Industrial Testing Laboratories Inc. only to wit­ness the tests and sign the reports, according to the indict­ment. · 
Thermal Science also al­legedly used an improved prod­uct, which was not the product sold to power plants, for test­ing. 



GRAINS & ·GRINDS 
JB3&J,~!"?t@],fo 
NEW YORK-STYLE BAGELS HAVE COME TO TOWN 
Bage/s(NEWYoRKS1YLE) 
Plain Sesame Poppy Garlic Wheat Salt Onion Cheese Pumper~ickel Everything Garlic Cinnamon & Raisin Blueberry Chocolate Chip 
SPREADS & SANDWICHES 
•
Plain & Flavored Cream Cheeses 

•
Delicious Fish & Chicken Salads 


• Fine Deli Meats 
As WELL As 
•
Knishes • Bagel dogs 

•Salads/Soups 
•Desserts 



r-----------------­
1 Bring in this coupon for · l 
I $150 OFF I 
I one dozen bagels on the day of the game. I 
---~ 
Coffee,(EVERY STYLE) 
Regular &Flavored Gourmet Co./foes Epresso!Cappuccino CajfoMocha Flavored Cajfo Latte 
Call Todayfor Unique Catering Options foryour Next Brunch or Party 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
31 0 W Cleveland Rd. Just East of Grape, by U.P. Mall 



272-7023 
south Bend's oakwood villas 
• 
single-family homes -villa concept 

• 
association landscaping & snow removal 

• 
6 models; 1200 to 1900 square feet, or more 

• 
minutes from Notre Dame & StMary's 

• 
minutes from Blackthorn Golf Course 

• 
quick access to the Toll Road and shopping 

• 
Miller Builders -quality homes 


~Y·-~ 
OAKWCX)D 
VILLAS 

Oakwood Villas 2903 Corpus Christi Dr South Bend, IN 46628 
(219) 277-0337 


-----~--------~ -~~--~-~---~­
--~-----·---~----~~----_.._______.... 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 30, 1994 
SEE THE UP-AND-COMING IRISH AGAINST • •• 
One NCAA Final Four Team. 
Two NCAA Final Eight Teams. 
Two NCAA Sweet 16 Teams. •INDIANA •DUKE 



Two NIT Teams. 
• 
BOSTON COI.I.EGE 

• 
KENTUCKY 


• MARQUETTE 
• 
DUQUESNE 

• 
XAVIER 



STUDENT TICKET DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE 
Seniors Juniors  _1 w  ",Tuesday ··Wednesday ····  Oct. 4 Oct. 5  ~  8 a.m.-5 p.m. 8 a.m.-12:30 p.m.  
Law/Grad  Wednesday  Oct. 5  12:30 p.m.-5 p.m.  
Sophomores  Thursday  Oct. 6  8 a.m.-12:30 p.m.  
Freshmen  Thursday  Oct. 6  12:30 p.m.-5 p.m.  
;y·:  

.STUDENT ISSUE AT GATE 10-JOYCE ACC 
1994-95 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 
Nov. 17 Slovakia Jan. 15 * Hofstra Nov. 22 Verich Reps. Jan.21 Xavier Nov. 27 * Valparaiso Jan.24 Duke Nov. 29 Indiana Jan.28 Boston College Dec. 22 * St. Bonaventure Feb. 1 lona Dec. 31 * Cornell Feb. a Duquesne Jan.3 * Lehigh Feb. 12 Kentucky Jan.5 * Loyola (Md.) Feb.25 Marquette Jan. 10 * Columbia Feb.28 Loyola (Ill.) 
Games omitted from student package because of Thanksgiving and Christmas break are indicated by an asterisk (*) in the schedule. 

---------------~----------------------------------------------~------------------~--~------·------------------~ 
Friday, September 30, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 
Pope greets Israeli official 

By FRANCES D'EMILIO 
Associared Press 
VATICAN CITY 
Israel's first envoy to the Vatican briefed Pope John Paul II about Middle East peace prospects, and the pontiff urged international guarantees for all religious believers to have permanent access to Jeru­salem. 
Ambassador Shmuel Hadas spoke with the pope on Thursday after presenting his credentials, a ceremony for­mally completing the historic establishment of ties between the Holy See and the Jewish state. 
Hadas renewed an invitation 
to the pope to visit Jerusalem, a 
pilgrimage that would be his 
first visit to the Holy Land. But 
the pontiff, plagued by health problems, gave no indication if or when he might go. 
Such a visit would help "strengthen the foundations of that peace which we are trying to build brick after brick," the Argentine-born Hadas said in his speech to the pope. 
Concern about the progress of his recovery from hip re­placement surgery in April caused the Vatican to postpone a papal visit to the United States, originally scheduled for next month. The pope's health has been the subject of intense public scrutiny. 
"He was in good shape," Hadas said. 
The Vatican's ambassador to Israel, Archbishop Andrea Cordero Lanza di Montezemolo, cited security concerns. 
"The pope doesn't have the trip yet down on his calendar 

Give the Gift ofTradition Limited Edition Handcolored Prints by 
Ken David 
O,Hara Room -LaFortune September 30 & October 1 9:00 a.m.-5:00p.m. 
THE". 

FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
7:30 & 9:45 AT THE SNITE 
PRESENTED BY NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION &THEATRE 
THE BEST FILMS UNDER THE DOME 
BY CF-J:A..r:> TO:rv1::A..SOS:K.I 
13R.-y-.A..:N" 13R."{Jc I<.s Jil'V'I: l'V'1:CI:N"T"Y""R.E STLT.A..R.T :N"ICC>L.A..I 
STEPHANIE SULLIVAN CA..I:rv1::IEN"" QlJICiLE"Y R "YA..N"" LEA..F-J:"Y 
:O.A."VI:O I-I:ER.N".A.N":OEZ JER.E~"Y"" R..A..LL ~.A..TT C>R.S.A..Ci-::E-I PLUS lVI.A.N"Y lVIC>R.E 
but he has it in his heart," the archbishop was quoted as telling L'Azione, a diocesan magazine in northern Italy. "Above all, it (depends on) a problem of security." 
The establishment of diplo­matic relations on Dec. 30 capped the pontifrs efforts to overcome centuries marked by mistrust and hostility and should further the Vatican's de­sire for a role in Middle East peace developments. 
Among its concerns is who will control the holy sites in Jerusalem and look after Palestinian Catholics. 
John Paul expressed hope that "the unique and sacred character of this holy city (Jerusalem) be the object of in­ternational guarantees that as­sure its access to all believers." 
Although both the pope and the ambassador were profuse in praise for each other's side, there are still thorny issues. 
Israel has asked the Vatican to clarify why it honored for­mer Austrian President Kurt Waldheim, who concealed his service in the German army in World War II, with a Vatican award in July. 
~ ~ 
~ 
page9 
~ 
~ 
j 
The Observw/Michael Ruma 

Elevated lab sessions 
Sophomores Ricardo Arosemena, left, and Robert Stanton labor to complete the 2-3 day task of exactly measuring the size of the Architecture Building. The findings will be presented next Friday. 

Freshman Class Council Elections 
Do YOU want to serve as the representative from your dorm on the Freshmen Class Council? 
1
. Pick up a petition from your hall judicial Board Commissioner on Friday, September 30. 

2. 
Have at least 1 0 signatures on the petition, and return it to your J-Board Commissioner by 12:00 noon on Monday, October 3. 

3. 
Campaigning begins at 12:00 a.m. on Tuesday, October 4, and ends at 11 :59 p.m., Wednesday, October 5, giving you all day Tuesday and Wednesday. 

4. 
No more than $20 may be spent on campaign materials by each candidate. 

5. 
ELECTIONS ARE TO BE HELD IN EACH HALL ON 


THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6. 
HEY GUYS! Join }en Cleary 
for some shadow dancing on her 
21st birthday! 
Love, the Howard Chicks 

Jf yoV\ see Jl\eWS 
happeV\iJI\gJ call The 
Obse~ve~ 



1-5323 

~~------~---------~~~-------~--------~-­
page 10 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 30, 1994 


Both sides dig in at Flint factory strike 





New entry clouds NY race 
By MIKE McKERSON 
Associated Press 
FLINT, Mich. 
Negotiators failed to reach a compromise Thursday that could end a potentially crip­pling strike at General Motors Corp. by 11,500 workers who say the company is trying to build too many cars with too few people. 
The two sides planned to meet again Friday. 
The walkout at the Buick City complex in Flint has shut off the flow of parts to other GM plants. Two plants in Lansing closed on Tuesday, the day the strike began, and other plants 
Both sides agree that GM should hire more people to ease the pressure. But they don't agree on how many. 
The automaker has eliminat­ed 52,000 hourly jobs since 1991 to boost productivity and profits and is reluctant to hire new, permanent employees. 
Many employees at Flint work six or seven days a week, 10 hours a day. 
"There's added workload, they speed the line -add that to the age of our workers and the years they've spent on the line and it's trouble," said Dean Braid, Local 599's educa­tion director. 
By DAVID BAUDER 
Associated Press 
ALBANY 
In a development that could help Gov. Mario Cuomo, an in­dependent candidate said Thursday he will launch a mul­timillion-dollar advertising campaign now that he has been granted a spot on the ballot. 
Thomas Golisano, chairman of the Rochester-area firm Paychex, acted after the state Board of Elections ruled Wednesday that he could be on the ballot as a candidate of the newly created Independence Fusion Party. 
Golisano, an admirer of Ross Perot, is running on a platform that calls for cutting corporate taxes and slashing spending. 
He said he would blanket the state with television, radio and newspaper ads and predicted he might spend between $8 million and $10 million of his own money on the campaign. 
Cuomo, a Democrat seeking a fourth term, is in a very close race against Republican George Pataki. Golisano is potentially Pataki's worst nightmare, be­cause Republicans fear that the businessman could steal anti­Cuomo votes and damage Pataki's chances. 
Victor Cipolla, a Rensselaer County Republican and Pataki supporter, had asked the elec­tions board to keep Golisano off the ballot. Cipolla said he still wasn't sure Thursday whether Golisano's candidacy would be challenged in court. 
Golisano said he didn't worry about being a spoiler. He said he saw little difference between Cuomo and Pataki. 
"I don't think either one of them are in the position of be­ing able to create much change," he said. 
The 52-year-old businessman runs a company that produces payroll checks for corporations. He estimates his net worth at $140 million. He said he first voted two years ago when he backed Perot's presidential campaign. 

that depend on parts made at Buick City could close soon. Dave Yettaw, president of striking United Auto Workers  u•e  ~amue~  
Local 599, warned that 100,000 GM workers around the country could be idled. Some of 5,500 workers at a GM transmission plant in  271-7674 1811 South BendAve.  anclno 'g  
Willow Run were sent home arly Wednesday and the com­any said it was possible the lant would be shut down by  ITAllAN EATERY 
eppthe end of Thursday.  Football Feast  
About 4,400 workers at a ransmission plant in Warren nd 2,700 workers at a Linden,  Available all Day Saturday and Sunday  
ta Monday After 4:00 p.m. 
N.J., truck plant were told not to report to work Friday. And workers at plants in Del., and  Buy any 16" pizza with one or more toppings and for only $200 more you'll receive 
Wilmington, Oklahoma City, Okla., have been told not to report for  2 -32 oz. drinks and a full loaf of Mancino's Cheese Garlic Bread  
scheduled overtime Saturday, though normal operations are scheduled to resume Monday. The UAW complains that its  or for $1.50 receive 2 -32 oz. drinks and a full loaf of Garlic Bread  
members are being forced to work harder and longer to keep up with runaway demand for GM cars and trucks, and  This offer is good at either ofour two locations. St. Andrew's Plaza LaSalle Square 
that the pace is making them sick and creating safety prob­lems.  Professional Hair Care Services  620 W. Edison Rd. Suite 130 913 N. Bendix Drive Mishawaka, IN 46545 South Bend, IN 46628 254-9533 234-5817  
~'asyli,~t~ Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square 51400 31 North (219)277-1291South Bend, IN 46637  The Morris Inn welcomes you Every Football Saturday  

S implY 
· · · Jj st'


the e · 
Voted #1 in Michiana 20 TANS ALMOST FREE 
WITH THIS ADI FOR A VERY LIMITED TIMEI 
expries Oct. 7. 1994 
CALL TODAY 
272·7653 
FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD. 23 
UNMRSITY COMMONS. SOUTH BEND, IN 
Pre/Postgame gathering on campus All activities start at 9 a.m. and continue throughout the day 
Brats•Burgers•Hot Dogs Beverages • Hot Roasted Almonds Gift Shop• Big Screen TV s 
Tents for Inclement Weather 

~ 
THE T10RRIS INN 
NO PARKING AVAILABLE 
Of NOTRE 0411f 


Friday, September 30, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Death toll tops 900 in ferry accident 


Massacre in Rwanda is not new 
By ANGUS SHAW 
Associated Press 
NYARUBUYE,Rwanda 

A stained curtain flapped in a broken window. Hundreds of rotting corpses lay inside the school, blasted by shotguns. In one corner, victims collapsed four-deep, testimony to their frenzy before death. 
Outside, skeletons were spread out in the dirt, frozen grotesquely in a panicked run. A baby's button-up jump suit, punctured by shotgun pellets, covered tiny, dissolving bones. 
But this tragic hillside village was not the site of a fresh massacre, as U.N. troops believed. Reporters brought here by the United Nations on Thursday said they had seen the same school in May when rebels of the Tutsi-led Rwanda Patriotic Front showed it to them. 
"It's exactly the same as we saw in May, though much more decomposed. The odor has almost gone," said Jean­Marc Boujou, an Associated Press photographer. 
According to witnesses inter­viewed in May, the massacre was in mid-April, long before RPF rebels captured the area, previously under the control of the former Hutu government. 
Earlier Thursday, the U.N. military commander in Rwanda said forensic experts were being sent to Nyarubuye to investigate allegations that the new government's army had carried out revenge killings. 
Gen. Guy-Claude Tousignant, commander of 4,300 U.N. peacekeepers in Rwanda, said 
U.N. troops patrolling south­eastern Rwanda found the corpses of 400 people gunned down in Nyarubuye, about 70 miles southeast of Kigali. 
Tousignant, who visited the school Wednesday, said experts wanted to find out whether the slaughter occurred before or after Tutsi­led rebels controlled the area. 
He and other U.N. soldiers from Canada who saw the massacre site estimated the victims were killed about 2 1/2 to 3 months ago, about the time rebels gained control of the southeast. 
"He has evaluated it with an untrained eye. It is not the opinion of a forensic expert," Capt. Jean-Yves Saint-Denis said late Thursday. 
Saint-Denis, Tousignant's aide, said despite media cover­age in May, the U.N. military command in Kigali had no offi­cial record of the massacre at Nyarubuye until Canadian U.N. troops deployed there last Friday reported it. 
U.N. officers evidently had concluded the massacre was the most recent of those discovered since the United Nations began investigating the slaughter of civilians in fighting between Hutus and their Tutsi rivals. 
They said it was unusual for the victims of massacres blamed on Hutu militias to have been slain with shotguns. Most militia victims were blud­geoned or hacked to death with machetes in ethnic blood­letting that erupted in April. 
The rebels, who seized power in July, have been accused of reprisal massacres of Hutus to avenge the slaugh­ter of Tutsis. 
ByMATTIHUUHTANEN 
Associated Press 
TURKU, Finland 
Salvage workers using so­phisticated electronic equip­ment scoured the Baltic Sea for the wreck of the Estonia with­out success Thursday, as the death toll from the ferry disas­ter topped 900. 
Swedish and Finnish mar­itime officials ordered inspec­tions of all their ferries for bow door problems similar to that reported by a surviving crew member, who said water rushed in through the door of the cargo hold. 
Bjorn Erik Stenmark, Sweden's maritime safety di­rector, said that since the acci­dent, shipping companies had been telling him they had ex­perienced similar problems in the past but had not reported them. 
"The huge catastrophe with the sinking of the Estonia per­haps could have been avoided if the shipowners had followed the law and reported earlier close calls with ferries of the Estonia-type construction," Stenmark said. 
The Finnish Interior Ministry issued a statement saying: "All ferries ... which fly the Finnish flag will be subjected to inspec­tions ... within a week. Special attention will be paid to cargo doors, front and back, and to alarm and monitoring sys­tems." 
Various investigations have begun to try to pinpoint the cause of Wednesday's disaster. The latest provisional death toll provided by Finnish authorities stood at 909, while 140 people were confirmed rescued. 
The surging waters stymied investigators, who had hoped to use an ultra-sophisticated robot to examine the wreck and try to locate bodies. 
About 90 bodies had been re­covered, the Finnish coast guard said. 
In a further setback, the ap­proaching winter means any attempt to haul the ship to the surface will be delayed until next year, Finnish news reports said. 
Bodies were still bobbing to the surface of the wind­whipped waters Thursday. But 


the heavy seas drove back sal­to criss-cross the area where vage workers trying to locate the Estonia sank, but rescuers .the vessel that capsized and did not expect to find any more sank in a storm early survivors of one of the world's Wednesday. worst maritime disasters. The 
Helicopters and ships from water temperature was 46 de­
Finland and Sweden continued grees. 



ta\travelmore 
~Carlson Travel Network 
~ 
Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 
*Airfares  Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates.  
Low airfares to Europe.  
*Rail Passes  Rail Passes issued in our office!  
No service fee!  
Timetables, prices, tickets available!  
*Car Rentals  Discounted car rentals!  
Available in all European Countries!  
*Experience  Over 20 years experience working with  
Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students  
and faculty travelling to Europe.  

We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus­
(219) 271-4880 
..-.·! --~NLY 
··~Kft, •. 
~ ~,.::.·:· 

''NOTRE DAME SPECIALS'' 
TOUCHDOWN -Box lunch BolDEN DOMER -Picnic Baske~ leeds B ROCKNE lAJLGATER-SandWich plater, leeds Bor 12 
Heavenly Ham Also Features: •Sandwiches 
•Homemade 
Salads 

•Party 
Platters 


Spiral Cut, Fully Baked, Honey Glazed Ham 
2307 Edison -1/2 Mile east ol Stadium 
X Monday-Friday: 1 O:Oo-6:30 .. .. Home Games: B:OQ-2:00 
6~!: 
288-4267 



Notre Dame Merchandise Home 
Football 


Weekends 






enne 

.p
u n v e r s t y a r k M a 
----------~-~-----------------­page 12 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 30, 1994 
Plane Serb leader tries to change his image 
ByJOVANAGEC powerful opponents. and armed by police in Serbia. Bosnian Serbs, already under
crash kills 
Associated Press Seselj's paramilitary units Milosevic was not named. But international pressure to sign a 
volunteered alongside Serb such widespread involvement in peace plan. 
BELGRADE forces fighting in Croatia and Bosnia clearly could not have NATO stepped up the pres­seven Serbia jailed a suspected war Bosnia. His rising popularity occurred without the authoriza­sure Thursday, saying it could 
Associated Press 
CORDOBA, Argentina 
A Learjet caught fire and crashed just after takeoff from an airport in central Argentina on Thursday, killing seven peo­ple. 
At least three British and two Australian citizens were among the dead, according to the British Embassy in Buenos Aires and police in Cordoba. 
The jet was carrying nine people, including the pilot and co-pilot, news agencies re­ported. The passengers had chartered the flight to Buenos Aires as part of a business trip. 
The plane was refueling in Cordoba for the 440-mile trip. 
The British Embassy in Buenos Aires confirmed the deaths of Adrian Finch, Elizabeth Barker and a 58­year-old man identified as A. Wright. The embassy said an­other British citizen, Robert Sclater, survived and was hos­pitalized. 
The local news agency Diarios y Noticias reported that the Argentine pilot, Jorge Igarzabal, was killed. 
But the Argentine co-pilot, Marcelo Andres Lopez, sur­vived. 
272-0312 
criminal and former ally of President Slobodan Milosevic on Thursday, and radical na­tionalists threatened to impli­cate Serbian officials in war crimes. 
Vojislav Seselj was arrested and sentenced to 30 days in jail for assaulting a fellow member of parliament. 
But his arrest appeared to be a pretext to help Milosevic shed his image as one of the chief fomenters of the nearly 30­month war in Bosnia. 
Milosevic has already con­vinced some in the interna­tional arena that hB is serious about cutting ties with the Bosnian Serbs. The U.N. Security Council last week agreed to ease crippling sanc­tions on Serb-dominated Yugoslavia that were imposed in 1992 as punishment for sup­porting Bosnian Serbs. 
Seselj supported Milosevic, but now he and other radical nationalists consider Milosevic a traitor for abandoning Serbs in Bosnia by closing the border to shipments of all but humanitarian aid. 
The jailing of Seselj suggests that· Milosevic is cracking down on radicals accused of commit­ting atrocities in Bosnia. But it will also silence one of his most 
Why not choose a first class haircut? Bringing out your best features is a talent. We create haircuts and styles that are expressly unique ... always exceptional and 
totally your own. 
Men's cut & Style 
$1~ 
with Student ID reg. $15oo 

Ironwood & Rte. 23 -minutes from campus 
22nd Annual Summer Program ND-SMC Students 
LONDON RoME May 24-June23 June 18-July 17 
Courses offered in MUSIC, EDUCATION, BUSINESS & ECONOMICS, HISTORY, ITALIAN 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING-October 3 
6:30 pm Carroll Hall • Free Pizza • 
Past students and faculty participants will be present. For infonnation call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
hindered the Serbian presiden­t's efforts to wind down the Bosnian war. 
Former Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger named both Seselj and Milosevic as suspected war criminals for their roles in the Bosnian war. But Milosevic is clearly keen to put all the blame on Seselj and other radicals. 
And Seselj and his supporters are prepared for a fight. In a television interview Wednesday, Seselj said Milosevic "wouldn't dare extradite him" to a war crimes tribunal set up by the United Nations because "he knows what I could say there." 
"Milosevic would be happiest if he could keep me tied and locked up here so he can be sure I will not be able to say ev­erything I plan to say in my de­fense," Seselj said. 
Branislav Vakic, a key Seselj aide, named several Yugoslav Army generals, including the chief of staff, Momcilo Perisic, as actively arming and support­ing Serbs in Croatia's war in 1991 and in Bosnia a year later. 
In comments published Thursday in the Telegraf week­ly, Vakic said special units of Serbian police fought side by side with Bosnian Serbs trained tion of Serbia's -and Yugoslavia's -most powerful politician. 
Seselj had received an eight­month suspended sentence last week for inciting another squabble in parliament last May. On Tuesday, federal par­liament speaker Radoman Bozovic said he was "physically assaulted" by Seselj and de­manded that Seselj's parlia­mentary immunity be revoked. 
Seselj denied Bozovic's alle­gation, saying he had "only spat on him twice." 
Seselj's arrest further isolated 

MoN(l.l\y. Ouoht I< 17 
8:00p.M CtNIIU\IItMI 
VAipAIV\1\0 Ul';iVIINI'y' Addt If('> 
I~IU<lAIION CINIIH 
VAlpAHI\iSO, INdiAN/\ 
Adr>11SSiON 
respond more quickly and de­
structively to Bosnian Serb vio­
lations than it has before ­
pending U.N. approval. 
NATO warplanes have struck Bosnian Serb positions six times to enforce U.N. ultima­tums or protect U.N. soldiers. 
Bosnian Serbs remained defi­ant, however. Sarajevo airport has been closed for most of the past two weeks because of at­tacks or threats of attack. And Serbs continued Thursday to deny permission for most U.N. convoys to pass through terri­tory they control. 
Happy 20'h Birthday JOHN BUTTONHOLE 
Love Tina, Tony & Jen 
PRiCE S26.00 & S24 00 

Ttcku OuTlETs: Ttl kET~:ASTfR. (AR'>O.'i PtRiE Scon ~Nd v.\lp,\RAiSO lJr-.;1\ERSiT\ 
FoR f\loRE 1\lnR.\IATtor-. C.\ll 
(219) 4o-l·5'233 llR ('219) 4b4 )')3l) 
t.lR Ttt kET~\.\~lfR (21'-1) 272-797'1 (1\dt.\\\) .,..,cJ (312) ~;q IJI) (Ill,,~. 11~) 
\ ,lfJl.ll,liSO l/1111 t'!,t[\ I~ (()Ill t'fllt'tllfl lnL·.!lcd 11/1 U> lt>' Un/1 I hc1ur \t>L;tht•.JSt ol ( ht< .• l~~d On/1 I I .! /11 1ur' front <"llll .l.~t. 1' 11 t'~l ,u/Jur/J~ ()nil -1S rntlt'' l:t.llll ~CluC/1 l;t·nd 

') 
Friday, September 30, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 13 


Illegal student wins fight 
By AMANDA COY ARRUBIAS 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
Rafael Ibarra will arrive for his sophomore year at the University of Chicago with his most crucial test behind him. 
Ibarra, an illegal immigrant for the last 14 years, was grant­ed the right Thursday to live and study in the United States. 
"It appears his academic con­tribution outweighs anything he's taken from the United States," Administrative Judge Kenneth Bagley said. 

Bagley suspended deportation proceedings against Ibarra, who will become a legal resi­dent. The judge ruled that Ibarra had met the require­ments to stay in the United States because he was a person of good moral character and re­turning to Mexico would be a hardship. 
Ibarra, valedictorian at his 
Elizabeth, 
Congratulations on21 Wonderful Years! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Dan, Emily, and Stephen 

OCTOBER...2-7, 1994 
~PIRITUAL CELEBRATION Multi-religious celebration of faith 
2:00 PM SUNDAY FIELDHOUSE MALL 
~'\~ULTURE 0 N THE QUAD Adaily sample of Notre Dame's ethnic clubs 
12:15-1:00PM MONDAY-FRIDAY FIELDHOUSE MALL MONDAY: American Lebanese Club TUE S DAY: Native American Students at Notre Dame (NASAND) WEDNESDAY: League ofUnited Latin American Citizens (LULAC) THURSDAY: African American Student Alliance F R I DAY: Indian Association &Asian American Association 
,~w 
-~~fiRESIDE CHATS "Healing Our World: It's aFamily Affair"-Various speakers present their perspectives 
12:15-1:00PM MONDAY-FRIDAY MONDAY: DonMcNeill,C.S.C.,KatieGlynn,lsaacDuncan TUESDAY: Joe Miller WEDNESDAY: MauraRyan THURSDAY: BarbaraMarx-Hubbard FRIDAY: Janet Kourany &Jim Sterba 
"'~INTERTAINMENT ON THE QUAD Multicultural entertainment 
4:30-6:00 PM MONDAY-FRIDAY FIELDHOUSE MALL 
MONDAY: GeorgeandtheFreeks 
TUESDAY: Hawaiian Club &Phillipine Club 
WEDNESDAY: BalletFolklorico 
THURSDAY: TroopND 
FRIDAY: Native American Students at Notre Dame (NASAND) 
~~PECIAL EVENTS 
7:00 PM LAFORTUNE BALLROOM TUESDAY: Bharata Natyam (Indian) Dance Troupe THURSDAY: BarbaraMarx-Hubbard 
-~~ASTE OF NATIONS Ataste of international food, entertainment and fun 
8:00PM-12:00 AM FRIDAY STEPAN CENTER COST$1.00 
SPONSORED BY THE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 



high school, was euphoric. 
"To tell you the truth, I felt like crying," Ibarra said. ''I'm simply speechless." 
Classes start Monday at the University of Chicago, where Ibarra is a biochemistry major. He planned to fly to the Midwest on Friday. 
Ibarra, 20, graduated from Point Lorna High School in San Diego in 1993 and won full scholarships from top colleges around the country. 
When it came time to fill in applications, he acknowledged that he is a Mexican citizen and not a legal resident of the United States, where he has lived since his mother brought him across the border when he was 6. 
The University of Chicago had said it would take him if he tried to legalize his status. The Immigration and Naturalization Service arranged for an expe­dited hearing because of his academic situation. 
One critic said taxpayers should not have to pay for Ibarra's elementary and high school education. 
Hocus Pocus Hypnosis 
"He'll never pay back the ed­ucation all U.S. taxpayers have 
Hypnotist Tom Deluca dazzles his audience last night with a vari­
paid for him," said San Diego 
ety of tricks, such as correctly guessing the identities of different 
resident Alfred Strohlein. 
impromtu artists. 




Terrorists kill former minister 
Associated Press 
ANKARA, Turkey 

Four assailants killed a for­mer justice minister Thursday who had imposed restrictions on leftist prisoners. 
The attackers fled after shooting Mehmet Topac in his law office, the Anatolia news agency said. They reportedly left a note -in the name of the Revolutionary People's Lib-era­tion Union Front-Revolu­tionary Left (Dev-Sol), Turkey's most violent leftist under­ground group. 
No motive was given. 

Topac served as justice minister in 1988-89 in a cen­ter-right Motherland Party government. He initiated prison regulations requiring leftist inmates to wear uni­forms and limiting visits from their lawyers and relatives. 
Hundreds of leftist prisoners went on hunger strikes to protest the regulations. Two of them died. The regulations are no longer in effect. 
Since its emergence in 1978, Dev-Sol has claimed responsi­bility for murdering several of­ficials. 
The group has been weak­ened lately due to police crack­downs and factional infighting. 
Police in Istanbul killed three suspected members of Dev-Sol in a shootout in downtown Istanbul on Wednesday. 
Dursun Karatas, the Dev-Sol founder who escaped from prison in 1989, was captured in France earlier this month. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,1Xl0 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of..Print Search Service: $200 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 [219)232-8444 

ND ROOM LAFORTUNE FREE LUNCH PROVIDED 


VIEWPOINT 
page 14 Friday, September 30, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters 

Managing Ediror John Lucas 
News Ediror ............................... Sarah Doran Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Ediror ............................... Mary Good Photo Ediror ....................... Scott Mendenhall Saint Mary's Ediror ............... Elizabeth Regan 
Business Manager Joseph Riley 
Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Controller ..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the studertrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notte Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions thiough le11ers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 
Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• EDITORIAL 
Now's your chance to S.U.R.V. 
The students and administration of Saint Mary's have a special opportunity that is slipping slowly through their fmgers. Admid widespread support. the students demand­ed an outlet to coordinate their service activities. Now it appears that S.U.R.V. may miss its chance at reaching the campus while the awareness is still high. 
In last year's questionnaire, an overwhelming majority of Saint Mary's students expressed an interest in expand­ing the activities of this group. 
In past years, the group has served as a place where stu­dents could obtain information about service. But in last year's questionnaire, many students were unaware of this organization's existence. Future plans call for a better known center that could coordinate service activities in the same sort of way as the Center For Social Concerns func­tions at Notre Dame. 
The idea was tl1at Saint Mary's could better establish an identity through the operation of an expanded service cen­ter. The organization would be particularly relevant to Saint Mary's in that that it could make a special focus on issues that concern women. Exploring women's issues through service programs would not only affirm the identi­ty of Saint Mary's but will also add a new dimension to the college community-a dimension that has been a long time in coming. 
Even better, an expanded S.U.R.V. would help reassert the legacy of the Sisters of the Holy Cross at a time when their presence is diminsihing. The perpetuation of their identity-strong, civic oriented feminists within the Church and community-is of the utmost importance. 
The administration has shown a willingness to cooper­ate-even a willingness to build and staff a new facility for the program. 
The problem is little action has taken place since stu­dents moved to expand the organization. October is approaching, and now is the time to determine the precise direction and purpose that the expanded S.U.R.V. will take. Only the students of Saint Mary's can accomplish this. · 
Right now, the administration is giving you the chance to create an organization whose premise is intrinsic to the very future of Saint Mary's College. If S.U.R.V. is to sur­vive, an immediate effort on the part of students is needed. This is a special chance. Don't fumble the ball. 
•I, FARRINGTON 
Of bug fights and cable mania. • • 
Football and abortion, Notre Dame's two favorite subjects, will have to wait this week. Like much else, they have been put on hold by things I have to write. As Peter De Vries once said, "I love being a writer, except for all the paperwork." Dr. Johnson was more succinct: "No man but a blockhead ever wrote, except for money." 
The experience of writing is something most people dread, and I confess that I have no great love of it. How much better if I understood the reading. 
The fact is, almost all the writ­ing you do in school is done under some sort of arbitrary deadline, and velocity, and velocity alone, gets you through it. This column in particular is being written under extreme pressure, but do I let it show? No, far from it. If only I could say the same for all those papers and exams and reviews I have written over the years, in class and out. Style counts for little in Academe. 
Or does it? Scientists tell us 
could go into 
that matter a trance or is infinitely porous. My
fugue state, 
Josh
only to body is waken and made up find 700 or mostly of nothingness,
so pithy 

Ozersky
words on a connected meaningful by a few topic. Come whirling to think of it, clouds of 
that is more or less what I do. Subtract the endless refillings of my Styrofoam coffee cup (free beverages being a large part of my reason for writing this), idle leafing through Suzy Fry's quote book, and salty man-talk with the guy at the next desk, and there are only maybe 30 minutes of simultaneous composing and typ­ing, and then the work is done. Correct some spelling mistakes, throw out an odd word here or there, and it's on to the next thing. 
Stopping, and thinking, and preparing for the next stroke ­these are luxuries for which the author in a crunch has little or no time. Turn in your blue books on the left, and make sure your name is on the cover. Papers should be from three to five pages (in Courier!) and should contain support for your argument. Show that you have both read and atoms. So are some of yours. The same is true of my day: most of it is spent in idle contemplation of the bug fight I saw on televi­sion last night, or the possible ways of braising chicken. I have miles of loops of intestine in my abdomen, whose only purpose is to break down foods into consti­tutive elements, simple sugars, acids, and proteins, and to process these back into hungry cells and tissues, the better to keep me awake while reading the Dialectic of Enlightenment. For all the good it does me! My head bounces back and forth off the back of my neck, and my open­
mouthed snore is the curse of half the ninth floor of Hesburgh. 
The notebook is opened; the pen is uncapped; a few prelimi­nary themes are sketched; and then I spend a half-hour prepar­ing for an interview with Charlie Rose which may never come. 
But by God the work gets done! "Any man can write, if he set himself doggedly to it," said Dr. Johnson, and he was right. You pause, and wait, and then you do the work. It gets done. And then you go back to yearning to talk on the phone to the person you just got done talking to, whom you know is drowning in her own work, and whom only your self­ishness and mania (and liberal arts workload) keeps you from getting to it. And yet the cordless phone rests on your chest, and the remote control is as welded to your palm as a skin graft. Whoop, that paper is due tomor­row! Set the clock for five. You don't want to miss COPS. I should never have gotten cable. And what about the conference paper? Is there any way I can write it about bug fights? 
You don't take the pen in hand. It takes you in hand. The vagaries and confusion of daily life are purged in writing; when done well, you get the feeling that your whole life is the waste prod­uct of your prose. The electric shift between indolence and com­position, that's the high of acade­mic life. If only you could pro­duce like that on every exam, on every paper, in every column. the weak coffee and the strong anxi­ety and the broken, unhabitual, strenuous bouts of reading would seem to fit in. If you're here, everything you do and are is vali­dated and manifest in your writ­ing. By your writing you will be justified, by your writing, con­demned. What else do you have to show? What good is it other­wise to anyone? Put down this paper and get to your writing! It's later than you think. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate stu­dent in history. 
• ilOONESBURY 
8UT 7Ha<£'S A LOTOF6{)()PN#US 
ABOlJTNAL--MAI<TASUJ&U-! FOR. 
5TARTER3, NOMORE toN6 TRJP3 
TO TU£6A FOR. 8At31&Na::&G51TI£S' 
7H£N TH£1?£'5 t{f}NCMIC {)/3VU­OPM&NT! P&OP£& fA//U. E3e {])M­lNG !NlD 7HIS/IREA 70 SP&N{) MONtY FR!J'rl AS FAR. AIAJAY AS fJfNI70N AN[}UJICHITA FAU.f3f 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

HOW fTI Oh GOSH/WHAT Y{}{)'R& I? THIS, SOM& BRINGIN3 
50/<TOF FRJ&N{)­
t.YRJVAU<F

TC~ 
7RA'3H 
/NHE:R£ 7 
I 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
''Aman of genius makes no mistakes. His errors are volitional and are the portals of discovery." 
-James Joyce 

Friday, September 30, 1994 page 15



VIEWPOINT 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students find hidden hope at ND 
Dear Editor: one thing or another, black or Dame/Saint Mary's College 
Eight years ago, I came to Notre white. Sexuality is a fluid, evolving (GLND/SMC). GLND/SMC provides Dame as a freshman. In the rush of thing and you shouldn't feel as if a forum for lesbian, gay and bisex­the first month of classes and you have to select any predefined ual students in the Notre Dame activity, I was feeling things com­label for yourself. community to gather and educateDear Editor: mon to most first-year students: You need to know who your themselves, share and grow to­As most students wonders about making friends and friends are on campus, and as gether, and enjoy a completely safe have one of the greatest .· 
fitting in, concern about my room­importantly, who you should stay environment that's not found too
literature speak to the ~~,.............. 
mate-from-hell, anxiety about away from. The staff of the many other places on campus.
should rather say the studying and keeping up, awe at University Counseling Center are There is also a local branch of the owners of tickets to th.i..:<.:ovon.t:ml 
the overwhelming tradition and quality people. If you feel uneasy statewide gay youth group Indiana chance to hear the no·werflltl \toic~e ...:v··~·'"~··"' """"'"'""'· spirit here... about any aspect of your sexuality Youth Group (IYG). The SouthAngelou is not only On top of all those things, howev­or how you share that part of your­Bend area chapter of IYG can bedirector, but also an e.,......,,~ ••.u er, I was also faced with what was, self with other people, UCC is a reached at PO Box 11582, Southrights activist. She is most rec:en.tlv 
to me at that time, another huge reliable place to go for friendly Bend 46634, or by phone at 235­ing her poetry at President 
burden. I had known I was gay conversation and good advice. 9396. Ceremony. . >.· ···• ....,. since early in high school and Campus Ministry, on the other Finally, there are your rectors
Saint Mary's is suppose(Jly while I accepted and had come to hand, simply cannot be trusted. and RAs. Student Affairs, whothese clays at expanding its mlltltil~ullt;Urat 11rn:erar:non terms with that fact, I had a strong They conti~ue to try and wear a employs and trains rectors and among students. ·Here's niy need to fmd other gay people who I game face, talking about how RAs, has never been open to hold­
this event were to be made ...v,,.......... 
could talk to and share with. much they care for all students, ing any training for rectors and16. On the morning of However, there was no easy way to regardless of their sexual orienta­RAs on meeting the needs of gaylow as it ssibly fmd even a single other gay person tion. However, the fact is that they residents of their halls, so there is
"Ther n(} · 
I could talk to, and it took my have reneged on promises to the no way of knowing that your par­Angelou. 
entire first semester before I fmally gay community (such as a support ticular RA or rector has good infor­It doesn'tseem found someone. It was a long, group supposed to have been start­mation on sexuality. Probably the its multicultural painful, and lonely semester of not ed in past years) and to in­best way to find out where theyevent. Multicultural rli\J4i-c,wu. 
having anyone to share with, any­dividuals. Despite their annual stand is to talk to people who have rather than mclusilve, one who I could talk to and know platitudes, Campus Ministry has been on campus longer and mighther of people who . 
that they could empathize with yet to make any positive contri­know what they've said or dollJl inAngelou's ··presence. 
what I was feeling. butions to lesbian, gay and bi­the past. 
ing the point of multiculttlfal In many ways, things are easier sexual students on this campus. There's no reason to feel alone
dents away rather ........,..~.
1 than ever for lesbian, bisexual, and The homophobic attitudes and on campus-the students and fac­enough that this is gay people everywhere, even here tactics of their leader aside, the ulty here are largely open and oncampusp at Notre Dame. Yet it can still be a Office of Student Affairs has staff accepting of lesbian and gay peo­
I appJaud Saint M 
frightening, lonesome place when who can help you if you face any ple. Of course there are those who African· Anierlean you don't know anyone else who is incidents of harassment or violence are loudly bigoted, and those whocollege, hut why not gay and don't know how to find because you are gay. In the past express their intolerance andthis event? If there other people. Furthermore, you they have competently handled hatred in quieter ways, but they
ing our college, 
might be sure you can trust your cases involving someone's sexual are fewer and farther betweenO'Laughlin Auditorium rector or priest or RA if you decide orientation, without acting than you might expect. 
Even Angela Athletic to talk to them. It shouldn't have judgmental or condescending. If you are gay, lesbian or bisexu­ing capae!tY for 3,500. 
to be that way, and I'd like to offer While they can't be said to act as al there are resources available to 
not·using Angela is 
some advice on what you can do if fairly on a larger scale, when deal­you here, and I hope you feel com­funny though. I you're new on campus and you're ing with individual students, fortable enough to take advantage every word to the lesbian, gay or bisexual. Student Affairs is helpful. of them and continue to grow at masses afAngela. 
First, don't feel pressure to adopt On campus, there is a group, Notre Dame. any label. History and society have completely unrecognized by the MIKE MILLER both been too eager to pigeonhole University administration, called Class of 1991 people, insisting that you must be Gays and Lesbians at Notre South Bend 
• CAPITOl COMMENTS 

Winning not debated in oratorical game 
Official Washington plays as hard as it exceeded the sixty-four team limit for works. Two weeks ago the softball team the past eleven years. Trophies attract begun under Presidents Nixon and Ford, teams. known as the "Outhouse Gang", defeat­This year is the first year that my good ed the House Democratic Majority Whip friend Representative Alan Wheat from David Bonior's team, the "Cool Whips," Kansas City did not participate because in the annual Congressional he is running for the vacated U.S. Senate Tournament. Sixty-four teams vie for seat in Missouri. He has been one of this year's coveted trophy which includ­those players like myself who arranges ed the Clinton White House team, sever­his schedule to include softball just for al House and Senate teams, many the love of the sport. Yet I often won­governmental agency teams, lobbying dered why college coaches endure the firms as well as the U.S. 
Tax Court. grief and criticism they do during their 
careers. For some it is the love of the ceeded to flip a fmger (one away from gressed whereby he got muddy some­game. For others it is the attention and the one the Moses statue strikes as a how, the exact content escapes me now.
glory of being a winner and leading a pose). However, he concluded by saying to thewinning team. 
Gary 
Lenny taught us how to speak and judges, "And here's mud in your eye." 
Notre Dame Football has the most express ourselves with his relaxed man­Lenny's accomplishments and memorynational championships at eight. Last ner and presence in the classroom. He should not escape the Notre Dame com­year's fencing team, lead by Captain embodied the qualities that reassured us munity thought. The man with the thick Chris Hajnik, currently reins as de­

Caruso 
that we too could be winners. His for­glasses and slightly hooked nose whofending NCAA champions. But can any­mer students included several extremely drinks an occasional very dry martinibody name the Notre Dame coach who successful attorneys, a few corporate from his freezer loved his students, his
won ten national championships in 
CEOs , broadcasters, and of course university, and his work. The University Winning is an obsession in nonathletic competition? He had been a many athletes. gave him a credit card to spread goodWashington just like it is at Notre Dame. retired professor for seventeen years. 
During Lenny's tenure as the Debate will during his competition, especially 
In fact, the Outhouse Gang won its He taught speech and drama for thirty­fourth championship in the sixteen year three years. He was once literally lifted Coach his teams won five Debate throughout the South where Notre Dame 
National Championships, three Oratory was loathed. It just goes to show what
history of the tournament. My own off his feet by Leon Hart while Hart team, the House Democratic Press inquired about his grade at the time. National Championships, and two can be accomplished with love and a 
Discussion National Championships. In credit card. 
Assistants "Yellow Journalist," won two The professor responded, "You have an fact, he had such a good Discussion I pray that before this eighty-three-old 
times (one year shutting out the A." 
competitor from Texas, with a low key Professor Emeritus passes to the largeOuthouse Gang 15-0, another time los­The man to whom I refer is Leonard demeanor and a soothing drawl, that stage in the sky where he will undoubt­ing to them by the score of 5-3 in the Sommer who lives a quiet retirement in the rules committee changed the rules edly meet Popes rather than play themchampionship game). a Mishawaka apartment. Many of his after he won his second consecutive in Washington Hall performances, theI sometimes catch criticism stemming former students remember him, but few championship. University or the Alumni Association will form the fact that I run the tournament visit these days. I visited Sommer dur­One topic Lenny's team encountered recognize him for one final curtain call.
as well as have my team participate. ing the Michigan weekend and remi­was, "Tell us about mud." Lenny's best Lenny deserves one more "Mud-in-yourHowever, I started this tournament six­nisced about my days as a student. 
student had the chance to elect for an­eye" moment. 
teen years ago with only twelve teams "Just call me Lenny," were the first other topic or take the mud. He optedbecause I loved the fame and saw a words I ever heard him speak in class. 
for the mud. He began by saying how Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is
post-season absence of competition. It He followed by saying that if we did not 
he once dressed in a white suit on his currently working in a Congressional
rapidly grew to where more applicants behave he would give us "this," and pro-
way to some formal. The story pro-Campaign during this election cycle. 

r-------~-----------------------------­
page 16 The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, September 30, 1994 


Season attracts prospective students 
By PATTl CARSON 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
If you hear a knock on your door early Sunday morning, and you open the door to several families requesting to see your room, you are not dreaming. Do not be alarmed. These are not families that missed their rides home from the foot­ball game. Rather, they are the families of prospective students. 
Saint Mary's College will host its four­teenth annual Fall Day on campus this Sunday from 8 until4:15 p.m. Designed for high school seniors and their par­ents, this day features a myriad of infor­mation for prospective Saint Mary's stu­dents. 
The schedule of events begins at 8a.m. with a continental breakfast and is fol­lowed by a welcome from University president, William A. Hickey, Ph.D., at 9 
a.m. Mary Pat Nolan, Director of Admissions, will deliver a presentation and Cynthia Danford, Assistant Professor, Nursing will also give a for­mal welcome. 
Panel discussions are also a part of Saint Mary's College Fall Day on Campus. Parents meet in O'Laughlin Auditorium to direct their questions and concerns to the panelists, who are par­ents of currently enrolled Saint Mary's students. 
Students gather in Carroll Auditorium to ask questions of five Saint Mary's stu­dent panelists. The five women who make up the student panel are members of VISA (Volunteers in Support of Admissions). 
VISA members belong to one of four categories involved with the Office of Admissions at Saint Mary's. A student member is either a high school liaison, an overnight hostess, a telecounselor, or a tour guide. 

"VISA members are active throughout the year, but they are especially active during Fall Day on Campus," according to Katherine Rosswurm, Admission Counselor. Tour guides give campus tours usually once a week, she said. Telecounselors are active in calling· prospective students and answering their questions several times per semes­ter. 
High school liaisons make presenta­tions about Saint Mary's College to stu­dents at their high school over October break, and overnight hostesses house and entertain prospective students on several Friday nights throughout the year. 
After campus tours and lunch, a facul­ty and administration fair will be pre­sented in the Reign Beaux Lounge of LeMans Hall. A financial aid presenta­tion will follow. A Mass in the LeMans Hall Chapel at 3:15 p.m. will conclude the day. 
According to Rosswurm and Denise Martin, Admission Counselors, 181 stu­dents are expected to attend Pall Day this year. With parents and siblings included, the total number of those expected is 580. 
"We are enthusiastic that our expected attendance number is high this year. We might set a record," Rosswurm said. 
Needless to say, the help of many stu­dent volunteers, namely VISA members, will contribute significantly to Fall Day. McCandless Hall Sophomore Melissa Roberts, an overnight hostess for VISA, said, "I am anxious to meet prospective students and answer any questions they may have this weekend." 
"Fall Day is one way I can share the great things about the number one col­lege in the midwest," Roberts added. 
Saint Mary's Fall Day on Campus has been successful during the past thirteen years, according to Rosswurm. "That's why we coordinate a Fall Day and a Spring Day on Campus each year," she said. 
"I was debating on which college to attend when I visited Saint Mary's on Fall Day," said LeMans Hall Senior Dyana Leon. "My visit definitely rein­forced my decision to choose Saint Mary's College," she added. 
Sophomore VISA member Kelly Cook said, "It's a good feeling to come back the next year and see one of the for­merly prospective students attending Saint Mary's. That's one of the reward­ing aspects of my involvement in VISA." 
Film Festival reels in young artists 
By STEPHANIE SLUKA 
Accent Writer 
Looking for entertainment this weekend? You need not look any further than Notre Dame's own student body. Instead of going off campus to catch the latest flick and paying $7, students can take a walk over to the Snite Museum for the Student Film Festival. A mere $2 gains admission to 90 minutes of short films and videos, several of which are award-winning pro­ductions. The pieces showcased Friday and Saturday night at 7:30 p.m. and 9:45p.m. are the final products of a grueling spring semester. 
The films themselves promise to be as diverse and complex as the individual directors who were given free reign to express their ideas. Professor Ted Mandell emphasizes, "We encourage the students to be artists," and there are no limits on the subjects, methods, or styles each director chooses. 
For example, Stuart Nicolai, a Psychology/Film Production double major, chose to do a self-reflective piece which he calls "Untitled Number Three." Nicolai used the project to investigate some film issues so he could "get it out of [his] system" and move on from here. 
Others used their videos to illuminate ideological messages. Seniors Ryan Leahy and Matt Orsagh co­directed a video dealing with the issue of illiteracy through the story of a father-son relationship. 
In another vein, Andy Kris and Aimee Burnas' spoof on the Tonya Harding/ Nancy Kerrigan fiasco, named Best Film in the Indiana Film Society Awards, will inject humor into the evening while philosophical questions such as "what is film" are investigated by Chad Tomasoski. 
His film, "Journey We More" won the Best Experimental Student Video in the Canadian International Competition. 
Advanced film students enrolled in a four credit class last January with script ideas in mind and were then paired up to bring the abstract ideas to concrete completion over the course of the semester. 

Under the guidance of Communication and Theatre professors Ted Mandell and Jill Godmilow (a reputed director with a film currently nominated for an Academy Award). the class was responsible for every aspect of film making. They experienced the journey from initial writing to actual shooting and then finally, the tedious business of editing. 
With hundreds of hours invested in the project, Nicolai describes the film studio as "kind of like a home" where fellow stu­dents support and en­courage each other during the long hours. This weekend will give them a chance to see how all the work came together. Tomasoski anticipates "finally being able to watch it as a whole. I'm sick of the part by part analyzing." 
The extensive production equipment available puts Courtesy of ND COTH Department the quality of these student Douglas Ro~inso~ stars in _"Reliance", a film dire~ted by students Matt Orsagh and Ryan films on a professional Leahy. The f1lm Will play thiS weekend at The Smte Museum. 
level. Although directors pay for their own film, they For the first time, two festivals will be shown this utilize the resource of technology within the year, each bringing current student ideas into the Department of Communication and Theater. spotlight. Nicolai encourages everyone to come and 
Traditionally the Film Festival has had a tremendous show support for what Notre Dame's own students are turnout, filling the auditorium to capacity for the producing. The immense talent and dedication of the screenings. directors will make the compilation rich and insightful. 


an u n de rstan rl able 
· ·:,.· t .. r~ · -1· l 
ln-t~ ·-::lue ·"\-ff'"1 {·t)•t 1'1Jll'-•· t-'"""­
...,.. ~.<..:: ··V-f'-Jo ,.-,'L' . <.-"~-. n 'h 
ends &~ch a.s Bill \;Valsh hn ve nlade·:r~y,~·-::'.;c,~j: _--·-·_. ::· 
Howevet~tijg a testament to Taylor's .g~~-~:yving reputation, no onA ha~t. i1f\~~e this :_;1.Is­
takP tvvice. 

st't.' T,;.\LOH'~~JJ:.'9:gr 6 
' ._-;,--~-.. 


Friday, September 30, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 2 
IRISH ON THE OffENSIVE. 
m m 

If you can't say anything nice . • • 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Let's see you squirm out of this one, coach.122/ 
Go ahead. Tell us how Stanford's defense will plague Notre Dame's offense, the same unit that rushed for 426 yards last week against Purdue. 
Insist that the Cardinal defense has improved dramatically since allowing 41 points to Northwestern in the season opener and 34 more last week against Arizona. 
Explain your anguish. 
Share your fear. 
Well? Let's hear it. 
"I find it hard to believe that Stanford's defense is giving up 31 points a game, but only 306 yards," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz said. "Their defense compliments their offense. They jam eight or nine people up front and try to get you into a passing game." 
That's it? 
What happened to the weekly lament about the opponent's dominating defense? 
Granted, Stanford's seems to have more holes than Dunkin Donuts, but that never stopped you before. 
But if you can't say anything nice ... 
Holtz was conspicuously silent about the Cardinal defense during his weekly press confer­ence last Tuesday, instead turning his attention to the woes of his offense. 
Inconsistency. 
Inexperience. 
Inefficiency inside the 20-yard line. 
"We don't execute as well inside the 20," Holtz said. "We're a little thin on the offensive line so we haven't scrimmaged as much in that area." 
Guard Ryan Leahy may be available Saturday after recovering from a recurring knee injury, though his steady replacement, Steve Misetic, will likely start again. 
Despite the frequent personnel switches, the Irish offensive line is developing some consisten­cy. 
"The offensive line is improving tremendously," Holtz said. "Dusty Zeigler is just an outstanding tackle right now. Mike Doughty's coming along and Mark Zataveski is an outstanding competi­tor." 
Despite its woes in the red zone, Notre Dame was much more effective on the ground last week against Purdue than it had been in the sea­son's first three games. 
Ray Zellars and Randy Kinder each rushed for more than 100 yards and Emmett Mosley and Robert Farmer proved to be valuable assets in the backfield. 
"With Lee Becton out (with a groin injury), we decided we needed a tailback by committee," Holtz said. 
Though Mosley fit comfortably into that com­mittee, he likely won't last at running back when Becton returns next week against Boston College. 
"I don't know if he can take the pounding at tailback," Holtz said. "Our long range plans are to move him back to flanker." 
This week, though, Mosley will probably remain a mainstay in the backfield. 
But opponents have been most successful against Stanford through the air, registering more than 600 yards passing in the first three games. 
Holtz hesitates to throw the ball on many occa­sions, choosing first to establish the run, though he said he doesn't want to be too one-dimension­al on offense. 
"We want to be a balanced team," Holtz said. "I don't want to grab bag." 
Quarterback Hon Powlus helped· balance the scales that once tipped heavily in the running direction. 
He has proven his passing proficiency early this season, but Holtz cautions against throwing too much against the Cardinal. 
"We don't want to get into a passing contest against Stanford," Holtz said. "We couldn't win." 

Photo courtesy of Stanford University Cornerback Eliel Swinton was among the Pac-10's leading tacklers last year as a freshman. 
Stanford's defense gets little attention. 
With a Heisman Trophy candidate at quarterback and an offensive mastermind on the sidelines, it's the Cardinal offense that commands most 
of the accolades. 
But when people glance on the other side of the line of scrimmage, they invariably see Jason Fisk first. 
The 6-foot-4, 285-pound senior nose tackle blossomed into one of the best defensive players in the Pac-10 in 1993. 
He had 67 total tackles, fourth best on Stanford's squad, for an average of 6.1 tackles per game. 
Watch the Stanford defense for any period of time and he'll likely smother ballcarriers on several occasions. 
Beginning his fifth season in the middle of the Cardinal's defensive line, Fisk has started 33 games, including the last 30 in a row. 
He had five tackles during the Cardinal's 33-16 win over Notre Dame two years ago in South Bend. 

Despite Stanford's 
lackluster defensive 
performance this sea­
son , Fisk has man­
aged a team high 22 
tackles. 
He also has four tackles for losses and a pair of quarterback 
sacks. He had only three sacks in his first three seasons. 
Fisk is particularly effective against the run. though his pass rushing ability has improved steadily. 
But perhaps the most valu­able component he brings to Stanford's defense this season is his experience. 
On a defensive unit plagued by inexperience and inconsis­tency, Fisk is a mainstay who can offer a bit of stability. 
It hasn't been an easy road for the Cardinal this season. 
Allowing 41 points against Northwestern doesn't exactly inspire fear in future oppo­nents. 
But without Fisk, Stanford's defense would be toothless. Not that it carries much bite now. 
-JASONKELLY 



35 
Pride will not allow Notre Dame to lose this week. Only two teams in history have won three straight in South Bend. The Cardinal will not. 

• RATING THE IRISH 
Quarterback 4 Ron Powlus could potential have a career day against a weak Cardinal defense. 
Running Back 5 A huge game last week despite Lee Becton's absence. Expect more of the same this week. 
Wide Receiver 5 The best overall unit Notre Dame has to offer. Derrick Mayes may be the best the nation has to offer. 
Offensive Line 3 Ryan Leahy may return, and Dusty Zeigler and Mike Doughty have grown into their larger roles. 
Defensive Line 3 The pass rush has improved, but it will be an absolutely essential component of a strong Irish defensive performance this week against Steve Stenstrom. 
Linebackers 4 Always a steady unit. Justin Goheen and Jeremy Sample are capable leaders and Bert Berry and Jeremy Nau have swarmed on the outside. 
Secondary 3 Still struggling to support Bobby Taylor. With their tough­est test of the season awaiting, the Irish secondary will have to rise to the occasion. 
Special Teams 3 Better coverage with mostly freshmen in the lineup, but the return game and the placekicking have been average at best. 
Coaching 5 In a matchup with Bill Walsh, one of the few offensive minds comparable to his own, Lou Holtz will take pride in outfoxing the opposition. 
-JASON KELLY 

page 3 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, September 30, 1994 
CARDINAL ON THE OffENSIVE. 



Cardinal will fly through the air 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Associate Sports Editor 
Eight minutes. 
That's all that stood in the way of Notre Dame's defense and its first chance this season to completely dominate a game. 
Instead. 14 quick Boilermaker points erased that hope near the end of last week's game, changing a lopsided score into one that made the game look close. 
Eight minutes was enough time for Purdue to score two touchdowns. 
In that much time, a potent Stanford offense can score much more. 
"They present a tremendous challenge for us on defense," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "They put a lot of points on the board." 
The Cardinal could only muster up ten points against No.7 Arizona last week, far below the 41 points they scored against Northwestern and the 51 they scored against San Jose State. 
The Wildcats were able to keep Stanford's pro­duction low by shutting down the running game, and. more importantly, keeping pressure on Cardinal quarterback Steve Stenstrom. 

Pressure on the quarterback is something that Holtz would like to see more of from his de­fensive linemen. 
"So much man coverage is predicated on a good pass rush," he said. "We have to keep the coverage in sync with the pressure. We want a better rhythm on defense." 
If the Irish allow Stenstrom to throw, he will. All day long. The senior completed 34 of 46 pass­es for 321 yards against Notre Dame last year. 
And the Cardinal offensive line is improved. 
"When they drop back to throw, they do a great job of creating throwing lanes," Holtz said. "Their offensive line does a great job of keeping you out of those lanes." 
Behind seniors T.J. Gaynor, Mike Jerich, and Seth Dittman, the Stanford passing attack could flourish. But it could also flop if Irish defensive coordinator Bob Davie continues to call blitzes like he has the past four games. 
"Bob Davie is an excellent coach," Holtz contin­ued. "We're going to blitz. but probably not as much as he would like to." 
That means the linebacking core of Justin Goheen, Jeremy Sample, Jeremy Nau, and Renaldo Wynn will have to take some of the bur­den off the Irish secondary, who have been picked on by substandard offenses as of late. 
Stenstrom will look to receivers Justin Armour and Brian Manning to continue this trend. 
While Irish cornerback Bobby Taylor will !>pend much of the day trailing Armour, an inter­esting matchup to watch will be the other Irish defensive back, Shawn Wooden, covering Manning. Manning has caught 16 passes for 335 yards on the year, while Wooden has been deemed the target for opposing quarterbacks, who have completed 65 percent of their passes against Notre Dame so far this year. 
If the Irish can manage to slow the high-pow­ered Cardinal passing attack, stopping the run will not be a problem. Stanford has kept its oppo­nents on their heels in the past by using the pass to set up the run. 
Sophomore Mike Mitchell, who sat out most of last week's game against Arizona with an ankle injury, will be back for Saturday's contest. Despite the limiting playing time, the tailback still has an average of 107.7 yards rushing per game. He will combine with senior Ethan Allen in the backfield. Allen has carried the ball 22 times for 106 yards on the season. 
"Stanford runs the ball well," Holtz said. "They score by running the ball as well as by passing." 
Stopping the Cardinal rushing game will be another challenge for the Notre Dame defensive line which stuffed Purdue, the third-ranked rush­ing team in the nation, last week. The Boilermakers, who were averaging 354 yards a game on the ground, were held to 146 yards, and much of that came in the last eight minutes. 
PLAYER TO WATCH II .. STEVE STENSTROM
• 
And the 1994 
the quarterbacks in Heisman Trophy goes the pros, and watch­to ... ing him play, I'd' kind 
Steve Stenstrom? of have to agree." 
As hard as it might Holtz has seen him be to believe, the play the past three Stanford quarterback years. He's seen may slip through the Stenstrom lead the 
cracks right into the Stenstrom Cardinal to a 33-16 
Downtown Athletic Club. 

But he hasn't exactly slipped through the cracks. The fifth­year senior is about to break every passing record in the Stanford book. 
He needs one more win to break Jim Plunkett's records for career victories. With 741 more passing yards, he breaks John Elway's career passing record. Only eleven more yards through the air and he becomes only the third player in Pac-1 0 history to throw for 9000 yards or more. 
Of course, these numbers were compiled over the four years that he has started as the Cardinal signal caller. But to stand among the ranks of Plunkett and Elway is nothing to shake a stick at. 
"Steve Stenstrom is a great quarterback," Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz said. "He may be the best in the country. Bill Walsh says he's better than three-fourths of all 
victory over the Irish in South Bend two years ago, and he watched him pick apart Notre Dame's secondary last year, as he threw for 321 yards. 
Stenstrom has the numbers. He can double his hype with a good performance this week­end. He can quadruple it if Stanford wins the game. But that will only happen if the Cardinal defense can stop the Irish. 
That's the problem with the Heisman Trophy race. You can throw all day, but if your defense doesn't stop your opponent, you can't win. And if you can't win, your personal chances for college football's most coveted award fizzles. 
Stenstrom can't be happy with having to depend on the Cardinal defense carrying him to New York. But that won't stop him from trying to throw four touchdown passes against Notre Dame. 
-MIKE NORBUT 

32 
A potentially explo­sive offense pads the overall rating, but 
Stanford's defense simply has too many holes to handle the 
Irish arsenal. 
Quarterback 5 A Heisman candidate in Steve Stenstrom and a coach who knows a thing or two about the passing game. 
Running Back 3 
Not enough of a threat to draw attention from the pass­ing game. Mike Mitchell has been outstanding, but he's also been slowed by ankle problems. 
Wide Receiver 4 
Justin Armour and Brian Manning have each been seri­ous threats all season. 
Offensive Line 4 
Tackle Jeff Buckey is one that got away from the Irish. His ability, along with guard Mike ]erich and center T.J. Gaynor make Stanford tough up front. 
Defensive Line 2 
A weak Cardinal defense begins here. Jason Fisk alone is not enough to adequately pressure Powlus. 
• RATING THE CARDINAL Linebackers 3 
Mike Hall is the Cardinal's leading tackler with 22 and Coy Gibbs has 21. Tough, if not talented enough to tame the Irish. 
Secondary 3 Not a bad unit, with five interceptions in just three games; Leroy Pruitt leads the way with three. 
Special Teams 3 Nothing spectacular. Coverage and return teams are ade­quate and kicker Eric Abrams has made just two of six field goal attempts this season. 
Coaching 5 Bill Walsh would like nothing more than to beat the "spoiled little brat" on his own turf again. His offensive game plan-along with a few Irish turnovers-did the job in 1992, though it probably won't do it again. 
-JASON KELLY 

-------------------------~~-------------------------------------------------­
Friday, September 30, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 4 



CARDINAL 


• THE STAYS • • • 
TEAMSTATS s Opp PASSING Comp Att % Yds TO In! Lg Hanson First Downs 67 53 Stenstrom 65 99 65.7 900 5 2 70 T otat yardage 1416 912 Frost 2 2 100 21 0 0 13 FIELD GOALS 
Offensive plays 219 200 Abrams Avg. yards per play 6.5 4.6 RECEIVING No Yds Avg TO Lg PUNTING Total yards per game 472.0 304.0 Manning 16 335 20.9 0 56 Mills 
Rushing yards 495 311 Armour 13 229 17.6 3 70 Rushing plays 118 120 Mitchell 8 62 7.8 0 16 KICKOFF RETURNS Rushing yards per game 165.0 103.7 Cline 6 38 6.3 1 13 Bookman 
Passing yards 921 601 Allen 6 36 6.0 0 10 Jacobs Passes completed 67 43 Harris 5 63 12.6 0 19 Passes attempted 101 80 Shaw 4 31 7.8 0 11 PUNT RETURNS Passes intercepted 2 5 Comella 3 34 11.3 0 23 Pruitt Passing yards per game 307.0 200.3 Salina 2 16 8.0 0 10 
Fumbles I fumbles lost 916 612 INTERCEPTIONS Penalties I penalty yards 211174 141120 ALL-PURPOSE Rush Rec Ret Tot Avg Pruitt 3rd down conversions 18-37 16-40 Mitchell 323 62 32 417 139.0 Frost 
percentage 48.7 40.0 Manning 5 335 0 340 113.3 Webb 
Bookman 28 18 244 290 96.7 SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2 3 4 T Armour 0 229 0 229 76.3 DEFENSE Stanford 27 35 20 20 102 Allen 96 36 0 132 44.0 Fisk Opponents 31 31 10 23 95 Stenstrom -41 0 0 -41 -13.7 Hall 
Gibbs IND STATS PAT PAT Swinton RUSHING Yds/Gm No Yds TO SCORING TO x2 x1 FG Sal P1s Hamilton Mitchell 107.7 43 323 Mitchell 4 0 0-0 0 0 24 Batson Allen 32.0 22 96 Abrams 0 0 12-14 2 0 18 Werner Salina 24.0 10 48 Armour 3 0 0-0 0 0 18 Draft Comella 17.0 6 17 Allen 2 0 0-0 0 0 12 Frost Bookman 9.3 10 28 2 0 0-0 0 0 12 Swanson Jacobs 6.0 2 0 0-0 0 0 6 Carder Frost 5.0 1 0 0-0 0 0 6 Haskins 
HI. WI. Yr. 2 Lenard Marcus CB 5-9 170 SR 
6-4 BILL WALSH
3 Tim Carey QB 195 so 3 Damon Dunn WR 5-10 175 FR 4 Anthony Bookman RB 5-9 170 FR 5 Scott Frost QB 6-3 210 so 
Third season at Stanford
6 Eric Abrams K 5-8 165 JR 6 Yodelin' Zeek WR 5-11 175 so 
Career Record at Stanford: 15-11-1 
7 Mark Buttertield QB 6-4 215 SR 8 Kwame Ellis CB 5-10 180 JR 
Against Notre Dame: 1-1 
9 Eliel Swinton S 5-11 190 so 11 Leroy Pruitt CB 5-9 170 so 13 Kailee Wong LB 6-4 235 FR 
Highlights: Piloted the Cardinal to a 
14 Lurleen Lumpkin SS 5-8 165 JR 
10-3 season and a Blockbuster Bowl 
17 Corey Hill RB 6-0 205 FR 19 Eric Wei S 6-2 195 FR 
victory in 1992. Defeated Notre Dame in 
18 . Steve Stenstrom QB 6-3 205 SR 
Jeff Allen S 6-4 190 FR 
South Bend that same season.
Leon Vickers S 6-0 210 so Ozzie Grenardo WR 5-9 165 SR Big Shirtless Ryan WR 6-3 200 SR David Walker S 5-10 190 JR Kadar Hamilton DB 6-0 200 FR Ethan Allen RB 6-1 205 SR Jami Webb CB 5-9 170 JR Charles Young S 5-11 195 so Branyon Davis CB 6-1 170 SR 
Quincy Jacobs RB 5-10 195 so 
Damien Crochet RB 6-0 195 JR 
Mark Ryzewicz CB 5-10 175 JR LAST TIME 
Mike Mitchell RB 6-0 210 so 
Chris Draft RB 6-1 205 FR 
Greg Comella RB 6-1 215 so 
Kevin Garnett S 5-11 190 SR 
Notre Dame 48 
Gappy Mae DDS 5-11 165 so 
Sean Cavanaugh LB 6-3 230 JR Stanford 20 
Aaron Mills P 6-0 175 SR 
Adam Salina RB 6-3 250 so 
Jason Gladden s 5-10 184 so Nathan Olsen LB 6-4 252 SR Clint Johnson (right) 
John Henton s 6-2 190 SR Brian Batson LB 6-4 221 
so returned this kick 100 
43 Jon Haskins LB 6-3 240 FR 44 John Sims RB 6-1 220 JR 
yards for a touchdown and 
45 Josh Madsen s 6-2 190 so 46 Justin Morabito LB 6-1 229 JR 
Randy Kinder became the 
47 Nick Riviera MD 5-10 150 SR 48 Mike Hall LB 6-2 225 SR 
first Irish freshman in a 
49 Kevin Miller 6-0 185 FR 50 Evan Wagner LB p 6-2 240 so decade to rush for 1 00 51 Willie Willis DE 6-3 270 FR 52 Mike Yurochko LB 6-0 215 JR 
yards in a game. 
Damon McDougal LB 5-11 225 JR 54 Nick Watts LB 6-4 210 so 55 Justin Strand LB 6-2 215 so 56 Scott Whitt c 6-5 270 SR 57 Barney Gumble c 5-11 270 FR 57 tan Brown LB 5-7 197 so 58 Dave Grable LB 6-3 235 SR 59 T. J. Gaynor c 6-4 280 SR • • • 60 Nathan Parks OG 6-8 295 JR 61 Steve Frost NT 6-2 260 SR 62 Carl Mennie OT 6-5 270 SR 63 Andrew Kroeker OT 6-4 295 FR 64 Erik Herrling OT 6-6 280 JR 
,.......____;,______,SJANFORD STANFO 
Geoff Wilson  OT  6-6  265  FR  
Mike Jerich  OG  6-6  280  SR  
Clark Masters  OG  6-3  260  JR  
68  Ryan Waters  OG  6-5  270  JR  
69  Ralph Wiggem  OT  5-10  260  FR  
70  Ken Loncar  OT  6-7  270  JR  
71  John Hebert  NT  6-5  265  SR  
72  Jason Fisk  NT  6-4  285  SR  
73  Seth Dittman  DE  6-7  275  SR  
74  Ryan Turner  DE  6-6  275  JR  
75  Carl Hansen  OT  6-5  260  FR  
76  Brian Donoghue  OT  6-5  250  FR  
77  Jeff Buckey  OT  6-5  285  SR  
Hans Moleman  NT  5-4  135  SR  
Brad Badger  OG  6-4  270  so  
Allen Gonzalez  NT  6-4  280  SR  
Justin Armour  WR  6-6  220  SR  
Andre Kirwan  WR  6-2  185  JR  
WR  6-4  190  SR  
WR  6-0  180  JR  
TE  6-2  220  SR  
WR  6-2  185  SR  
Tommy Hanson  TE  6-5  230  so  
Tony Cline  TE  6-5  250  SR  
Jebediah Springfield WR  6-3  225  JR  
Brian Manning  WR  5-11  177  so  
Alistair White  WR  6-0  185  so  
Jeff Hansen  TE  6-6  230  SR  
LB  6-3  240  JR  
LB  6-6  250  so  
DE  6-5  240  so  
LB  6-0  225  SR  
DE  6-5  275  SR  
Pete Swanson  DE  6-5  278  JR  
Damon Phillips  LB  6-3  225  SR  

WR 80-Justln Armour, 6-6, 220, SR 82-Mark Harris, 6-4, 190, SR LT 73-Seth Dittman, 6-7, 270, SR 60-Nathan Parks, 6-6, 285, JR LG 66-Mike Jerich, 6-6, 280, SR 62-Carl Mennie, 6-5, 270, SR C 59-TJ. Gaynor, 6-5, 275, SR 56-Scott Whitt, 6-5, 260, JR RG 78-Brad Badger, 6-4, 245, SO 68-Ryan Waters, 6-5, 265, SR RT 77-Jeff Buckey, 6-5, 280, JR 70-Ken Loncar, 6-7, 285, JR TE 87-Tony Cline, 6-5, 240, SR 85-Tommy Hanson, 6-5,225, SO QB 18-Steve Stenstrom, 6-3,205, SR 5,Scott Frost, 6-3, 210, SO RB 32-Mike Mitchell, 6-0, 210, SO 29-Quincy Jacobs, 5-10, 195, SO FB 25-Ethan Allen, 6-1, 205, SR 38-Adam Salina, 6-3, 240, SO FL 88-Brian Manning, 5-11,170, SO 84-David Shaw, 6-1, 185, SR 
OFFENSE DEFENSE 

0  0-0  0  0  6  
0-29 0-2 No 9  30-39 0-1 Avg 36.2  40-49 50+ 1-2 1-1 Bk 0  Tot 2-6 Lg 44  
No 12 2  Avg 20.3 28.5  TO 0 0  Lg 31 39  
No 5  Avg 4.2  TO 0  Lg 13  
No 3 1 1  Yds 12 0 0  TO 0 0 0  Lg 9 0 0  
T 13 12 15 9 12 8 8  A 9 10 6 8 4 6 6 4  Tot 22 22 21 17 16 14 14 13 11  FR 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  PBU 0 0 0 1 0 4 0 0 1 0  BK 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  Sac 2 0 2 0 0 0 1 2 0 5 1 0  
STANFORD  
Sept. 10 Sept. 17 Sept. 24 Oct. 1 Oct. 8 Oct. 15 Oct. 22 Oct. 29 Nov. 5 Nov. 12 Nov. 19  at Northwestern  41-41, T 51-20, w 34-10, L 1:35 7:00 4:00 1:00 12:30 12:30 12:30 12:30  

RECORDS 

ND leads 7-3 Last ND win 48-20, 1993 Last Stanford win 33-16, 1992 Streak 1 by ND At Notre Dame Stadium Stanford has won two in a row against the Irish in South Bend. 
LE  94-Bryan Werner, 6-5, 250, SO  
36-Sean Cavanaugh, 6-3, 230, JR  
NT  72-Jason Fisk, 6-4, 280, SR  
96-David Carder, 6-5, 270, SR  
RE  96-David Carder, 6-5, 270, SR  
75-Carl Hansen, 6-5, 260, FR  

LOLB 42-Brian Batson, 6-4, 221, SO 98-Damon Phillips, 6-3, 224, SR LILB 95-Coy Gibbs, 6-0, 225, SR 40-Nathan Olsen, 6-4, 252, SR RILB 48-Mike Hall, 6-2, 225, SR 54-Nicodemus Watts, 6-4, 210, SO 
ROLB 13-Kailee Wong, 6-4, 225, FR 93-Matt Harper, 6-6, 250, SO LC 11-Leroy Pruitt, 5-9, 170, SO 
17-Corey Hill, 6-0, 205, FR SS 24-Kadar Hamilton, 6-Q, 200, FR 23-David Walker, 5-10, 190, JR FS 5-Scott Frost, 6-3,210, SO 27-CharlesYoung, 5-11,195, SO RC 9-Eiiel Swinton, 5-11, 190, SO 26-Jami Webb, 5-9, 170, JR 
Friday, September 30, 1994

page 5 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 



FIGHTING IRISH 
" .. . 
Opp NO PASSING Camp All % Yds TO tnt Lg Edwards 0 0-0 0 0 6 75 94 Pawlus 52 95 54.7 750 9 446 Farmer 0 0-0 0 0 6 1226 1788 Krug 2 2 100 15 1 0 8 Miller 1 0 0-0 0 0 6 260 291 Cengia 0 0 0-0 1 0 3 
4.72 6.14 RECEIVING No Yds Avg TO Lg FIELD GOALS 0-29 JQ-39 4Q-49 50+ Tot 
306.5 447.0 Mayes 17 286 16.8 4 46 Schroffner 2-3 2-2 0-0 Q-0 4-5 508 1023 Miller 14 216 15.4 1 46 Cengia 0-0 1-1 0-0 0-0 1-1 153 194 Stafford 8 105 13.1 2 23 
127.0 255.8 Zellars 5 55 11.0 1 21 PUNTING No Avg Bk Lg 718 765 Mosley 4 43 10.8 0 15 Ford 15 39.9 0 61 67 54 Becton 2 22 11.0 1 21 
107 97 McBride 2 15 7.5 0 8 KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO Lg 4 4 Miller 8 24.1 0 55 
179.5 191.2 ALL-PURPOSE Rush Rec Ret Tot Avg Zellars 5 11.8 0 23 13/5 714 Miller 20 216 228 464 116.0 
22/155 29/218 Zellars 273 55 59 387 96.8 PUNT RETURNS No Avg TO Lg 14-51 24-52 Kinder 288 0 0 288 72.0 Miller 6 5.8 0 12 
27.5 46.2 Mayes 0 286 0 286 71.5 4-4 2-4 Becton 182 22 0 204 68.0 INTERCEPTIONS No Yds TO Lg Mosley 80 43 22 145 36.2 Taylor 1 38 0 38 
2 3 4 T Stafford 0 105 10 115 28.8 Davis 11 0 11 10 30 10 32 82 Edwards 98 8 0 106 26.5 Wooden 7 0 7 13 44 41 28 126 Farmer 64 15 25 104 26.0 Sample 0 0 0 
PAT PAT DEFENSE T A Tot FR PBU BK Sac Yds/Gm No Yds Avg TO Lg SCORING TO x2 x1 FG Sal P1s Magee 19 6 25 0 1 0 0.0 
72.0 43 288 6.7 2 37 Schroffner 0 0 15-15 4 0 27 Goheen 18 7 25 1 2 0 2.0 
68.2 40 275 6.8 1 62 Mayes 4 0 0-0 0 0 24 Sample 17 5 22 0 0 0 2.0 
60.7 35 5.2 2 37 Becton 3 0 0-0 0 0 18 Nau 14 8 22 0 0 0 3.0 
24.5 15 6.5 1 18 Kinder 2 0 0-0 0 0 12 Grasmanis 11 10 21 0 0 0 2.5 
20.0 10 8.0 0 18 Stafford 2 0 0-0 0 0 12 Gibson 7 20 0 0 1.0 
16.0 16 4.0 0 22 Zellars 2 0 0-0 0 0 12 Hamilton 7 18 1 0 1.0 
.,. . 
Pos. HI. WI. YR Derrick Mayes WR 6-1 205 JR

NOTRE DAME LOU HOLTZ s 5-11 SR
LeShane Saddler 196 Dan Farrell WR 6-0 166 SR

42-15, w 
3 Rob Powlus QB 6-4 218 so 24-26, L Lee Becton RB 6-0 191 SR
Ninth season at Notre Dame Emmett Mosley WR 179
5-9 so-20, w Mike Miller WR 5-7 160 SR
Career Record at ND: 80-20-1 QB 5-9 FR
Leon Blunt 173

-1, w 
Ivory Covington DB 5-11 160 FR 

:35 Against Stanford: 4-2 LaRon Moore CB 5-9 193 SR Mike Perona QB 6-1 186 so
BA Highlights: Won the 1988 national 
Larry Wright ATH 5-11 190 FR Tom Krug QB 6-5 199 so

:35 championship and finished second in 
Gus Ornstein QB 6-5 210 FR Scott Cengia K 5-9 167 FR

both 1989 and 1993. 6-4 193 so
Brian Ford p John Bishop CB 6-0 171 so Paul Rogers QB 6-1 204 so Allen Rossum DB 5-9 175 FR Brian Perry s 6-1 197 so Mark McKenna QB 5-10 188 so Brian Magee s 5-10 201 JR Anthony Swiney CB 5-11 180 so Malcom Johnson WR 6-5 193 FR Bobby Taylor CB 6-3 201 JR­Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 183 SR Charles Stafford WR 5-10 183 SR Randy Kinder RB 6-1 200 so Mark Monahan s 6-0 178 .JR Tracy Graham CB 5-10 190 SR Ken Barry RB 6-1 195 FR

NOTRE DAME 
Brian Meter CB 5-7 152 SR Jarvis Edison DB 6-5 210 FR

STADIUM RB 210 so
Robert Farmer 6-1 Clement Stokes RB 6-0 200 FR 
John McLaughlin DB 6-4 225 FR Ray Zellars RB 5-11 221 SR

Opened in 1930 
Richard Rolle WR 6-1 159 FR Jeremy Sample LB 5-11 223 SR

Capacity 59,075 
Travis Davis s 6-0 197 SR Sim Stokes CB 6-2 191 soLargest Crowd 61,296 LB 209 so
Kinnon Tatum 6-1 Kevin CarreHa LB 6-1 227 JR

.... 
Surface Natural Grass Joe Sabey LB 6-2 225 JR Alton Maiden LB 6-4 248 SR
Irish at home 240-68-5 Bill Wagasy LB 6-2 228 JR Marc Edwards RB 6-2 221 so Jeff Kilburg DE 6-4 258 so Bill Mitoulas LB 6-0 210 FR Renaldo Wynn LB 6-3 254 JR Lyron Cobbins LB 6-2 230 so Greg Stec c 6-2 265 SR Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 245 so Germaine Holden DE 6-4 252 SR Jim Kordas OG 6-5 269 SR Justin Goheen LB 6-2 228 SR Oliver Gibson NG 6-3 275 SR 
.. .. . Steve Armbruster c 6-0 220 SR Rick Kaczenski c 6-4 251 so Jeremy Nau LB 6-4 226 SR
--------,.........r------,~---------------,,........r--------­
Jon Bergman LB 6-1 220 SR Bert Berry LB 6-4 221 so Jeff Kramer LB 6-3 215 FR

IRISH IRISH 
Mike McCullough OG 6-3 295 JR 
Mike O'Donovan LB 6-2 210 SR

T ; 90·Brian Hamilton, S-3, 288, SRTE 80-0scar McBride, S-5, 271, SA 
Steve Misetic OG 6-5 280 JR

OFFENSE DEFENSE 
LB 188 Kurt Belisle LB 6-3 220 FR 51-Melvin Dansby, 6-4, 245, SO Brett Galley 5-9 so

88-Leon Wallace. 6-3, 275, JR 
NG 55-0liver Gibson, 6·2, 275, SR Mark Zataveski c 6-6 300
T 76-Jeremy Akers, S-4, 29S, JR 
SR 6-4 FR

42-Aiton Maiden, 6-2, 259, JR Paul Mickelbart OL 265
69-David Quist, 6-4, 289, JR 
David Quist OT 6-5 264 JR

T 93-Paul Grasmanis, 6·3, 286, JR Mike McGlinn OT 6-6 285 SR
G S4-Steve Misetic, S-4, 291, JR 
6-5 SR

52-Germaine Holden, 6-3, 271, SA Herb Gibson OT 309
73-Ryan Leahy, 6-3, 290, SR 
Ryan Leahy OG 6-4 285 SR 



OLB 58-Jeremy Nau, 6·4, 233, SR Mike Doughty OT 6-8 280 so Will Lyell c 6-5 274 JR 
QB 3-Ron Powlus, S·2, 217, SO 


60-Bertrand Berry, 6-2, 228, SO11-Thomas Krug, 6-4, 200, SO 
Chris Clevenger OT 6-7 250 so 


SR Dusty Zeigler OG 6-6 264 JR ILB 54-Justin Goheen, 6·3, 235, SR Jeremy Akers OT 6-5 286
C S7-Mark Zataveski, S-5, 300, SR 
49-Lyron Cobbins, 6-0, 234, SO50-Greg Stec, 6-1, 265, SR 
Jon Spickelmier OL 6-4 250 FR Damian Peter OL 6-7 295 FR Oscar McBride TE 6-5 258 SR 

ILB 36-Jeremy Sample, 5·11, 229, SRG 77-Dusty Zeigler, S-5, 2S4, JR 
39-Kinnon Tatum, 5-11, 214, SO John Lynch 6-2 JR
62-Mike McCullough, 6-3, 295, JR 
WR 188 5-10 SR

OLB 48-Renaldo Wynn, S-3, 244, JR Joe Carrol WR 182T 73-Mike Doughty, S-7, 29S, SR 
Mike Denvir TE 6-3 231 so

95-Corey Bennett, 6-1, 220, FR Dan McConnell WR 5-10 178 JR
70-Mike McGlinn, 6-5, 297, SR 
Ben Herrig WR 5-10 168 JR

CB 22-Shawn Wooden, 5·10, 190, SR 6-4 244 JR
FL S-Mike Miller, 5-6, 159, SR 
Ben Foos DE 

8-lvory Covington, 5-11, 160, FA Cikai Champion WR 5-11 176 so
83-Scott Sollmann, 5-8, 165, SO 
Leon Wallace TE 6-3 275 JR

SE 1-Derrick Mayes, s-o, 199, JR 
SS 37-Travis Davis, S-o, 198, SR 6-1 173 FR
Ty Goode WR 
DE 6-3 Darnell Smith DE 6-5 265 so 9-LaRon Moore, 5-9, 193, SR Brian Hamilton 276 SR

24-Charles Stafford, 5-9, 187, SR 
FS 17-Brian Magee, 5·9, 204, JR Luke Petitgout 6-7
TB 25-Randy Kinder, S-0, 207, SO 
TE 260 FR Paul Grasmanis NG 6-3 277 JR Reggie Fleurima NG 266 SR 

2-LeShane Saddler, 5-10, 197, SR31-Robert Farmer, 6-1,210, SO 
CB 21-BobbyTaylor, S·3, 214, JR Corey Bennett 205 FR
FB 34-Ray Zellars, 5·11, 233, SR 
Stefan Schroffner 164 SR

15-AIIen Rossum, 5-9, 175, FR44-Mark Edwards, 6-0, 228, SO 
Corey Redder 215 FR Pete Chryplewicz 255 JR Cliff Stroud 274 JR 


Friday, September 30, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 6 
Taylor 
continued from pagel 
The reason is that Taylor thrives on challenges. He views every quarterback who throws his way and every receiver who lines up opposite him as an­other opportunity. Every chal­lenge is a chance to prove he is the best. 
This philosophy first mani­fested itself for a national audi­ence at this time last year, as Taylor and his teammates were preparing for their annual meeting with Stanford. A year earlier. Notre Dame was con­tending for a national title until Stanford strode into Notre Dame Stadium and exited with a 33-16 victory. Cardinal quar­terback Steve Stenstrom, then a redshirt sophomore, completed 21 of 32 pass(;ls for 215 yards, as the Cardinal won for the sec­ond time in three years at Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Irish coaching staff, hop­ing to avert another loss at the hands of the Cardinal last year, summoned Taylor to cover Stanford's most dangerous and reliable receiver, Justin Armour. Taylor rose to the challenge. 
Notre Dame beat Stanford by four touchdowns as Taylor blanketed Armour. Stenstrom threw to Armour 11 times while Taylor was covering him, without one successful comple­tion. Taylor also made six tackles, blocked a field goal and broke up two passes, one a touchdown-saving play. Just five games into his sophomore season, Bobby Taylor had ar­rived. 
"A lot of people were doubt­ing me and the secondary as a whole at that time-there were a lot of doubters in the media especially," remembered Taylor. 
"And before the game that week Coach (Holtz) told me that he wanted me to go wherever he {Armour) went. So it was a challenge to me and I accepted the challenge and did the job." 
E 
ver since that day in California, history seems to be making a 
habit of repeating itself. 
Six weeks later, Taylor and the rest of the Irish defensive backfield faced their greatest challenge-the Florida State of­fense, led by eventual Heisman Trophy winner Charlie Ward and a slew of fleet receivers. 
Many doubted whether the secondary could hold Ward to under 400 yards passing and the FSU offense under 40 points. Taylor and the rest of the Notre Dame defense re­sponded, holding Ward to un­der 300 yards passing and en­gineering a 31-24 upset of the eventual national champions. 
"It was a big challenge, but there was also a sense of re­spect and fear for their offense, their receivers and Charlie Ward," noted Taylor. "We knew if we didn't play our best we could get blown out. It was a challenge and as a defense we rose to the occasion and the team as a whole rose to the oc­casion." 
Just two weeks ago, the Irish were coming off a loss and feel­ing more heat from the doubters that seem to perpetu­ally cling to the Notre Dame football program. The defense was beginning to feel maligned after letting Michigan drive the length of the field in the waning moments to upset the Irish the week before. 
Michigan State's star receiver Mill Coleman made matters worse by catching five passes for 46 yards in leading the Spartans to a 20-7 halftime edge. The Irish were 30 min­utes away from suffering their second-straight loss when Taylor decided to cover Coleman the rest of the game. The result: Coleman was held without another reception, Michigan State threw for just 45 yards in the second half, and the Irish won 21-20. 
"On Saturday Coach Davie said he wanted me to go with him wherever he (Coleman} went, but then we decided not to do that," said Taylor. "In the second half I took it upon my­self to cover him. It was a deci­sion that I made." 
I 
t is these types of decisions that led Notre Dame's first­year defensive coordinator Bob Davie to place Taylor at cornerback this season, instead of his more natural position, free safety. 
"It was a case of Coach (Davie) asking me when we face a team's best receiver, who would I want covering that man? I said 'Me', so ever since then I've been at corner," ex­plained Taylor. 
Taylor's acceptance of this type of responsibility, specifi­cally the opposing team's most dangerous threat each week. arises out of his goal to become a leader of the Notre Dame de­fense. 
"Being one of the veterans on the defense, I think some of the younger players look up to me," said Taylor. "There may be some times when I may be down or I may not feel like be­ing a leader, but you just have to suck it up because everyone else is looking at you." 
"I've been pleased with Bobby's leadership," noted Davie. "lie's not very vocal­he's a quiet leader. But I've been very impressed with his leadership ability." 
In addition to becoming an unquestioned leader, Taylor has a burning desire to become a near-perfect football player. His combination of speed, strength and size may give him the tools, but it is this desire that fuels his continuing quest for perfection on the football field. 
''I'm hoping that the man I'm covering won't catch a pass all year," said Taylor. ''I'm striving for perfection-that's what life is all about. I'm going to play error-free defense so that we can become the top defense in the country, and our secondary can get some national recogni­tion. 
''I'm not looking to be an av­erage or mediocre player. I'm always trying to do bigger and better things, always trying to do the best I can for the team." 
As expected, Taylor's com­plete package of attitude and ability has garnered him de­served attention on the national level. He is regarded as the top defensive back in the country and a favorite for the presti­gious Thorpe Award. These ac­colades have spawned height­ened expectations and possibili­ties, such as the promise of NFL stardom. 
In the past few years at Texas A&M, Davie has coached three defensive backs who have gone on to become solid NFL players: Kevin Smith, Patrick Bates, and Aaron Glenn. Davie is certain that Taylor belongs in such an elite group. 
"Bobby definitely has the ability and the competitiveness to be as good as those guys," said Davie. "He will get there. 
"With his heighth and jump­ing ability there are things he can do that almost no one else can. He adds an element to our defense in that he can cover the big, tall receivers that the NFL has been going to. He can match them with his size and he can win a jump ball situa­tion. With those skills, I think he can be better than those guys." 
The next logical question on the minds of many Notre Dame fans is whether or not the ju­nior will take his act to the NFL after this season. One thing is certain: Taylor would welcome the challenge. 
"I made a commitment to play four years here," said Taylor. "You can't be thinking about that. I'm just taking it one day at a time and one game at a time, and doing the best I can. If that happens at the end of the season, then so be it." 

ATTENTION ALL WING LOVERS! 

~ lrQWQ ~({!lf~~IID~ 
ID)~lffl~ 

wn~~© 
@~InN~~ 
. 

Join the Wings Etc. Team! 
NOW 



HIRING! 
•Bartender 
(Beer &Soda Only) 
• Servers 

(Must be 21) 
•Cooks •Dishwasher 

(We have amachine!) 
•Hostess/Host 
Full or Part Time 
No experience necessary! Apply within! 
. 
ASK ABOUT.OtJR WALL OF FLAME 
'. 
University Center 6502 N .-Grape Rd. Phone 273-0088 
page 7 The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA Friday, September 30, 1994 

'The prettiest girl at the dance' 
Always enticing to high school prospects, Notre Dame is again trying to woo the nation's best 
by Tim Sherman 
N
otre Dame coach Lou Holtz, was once asked to talk about ex-Irish linebacker Pete 
Bereich. 
His answer-classic Holtz. 
"Peter Bereich is going to make me take recruiting a little bit more serious from now on," sarcsastically quipped Holtz. 
Holtz was joking when he made that remark. but so far there is nothing jocu­lar about the seriousness which with the Irish have hit the recruitng trail. 
That trail may end with a pot of gold, or at least an awful lot of potential, if early indicators hold up. 
With a weak recruiting class last year, at least on paper and by Irish standards, Holtz knows he needs a bumper crop this time around. 
So far, Notre Dame has a number of prospects on its wish list. More impor­tantly, the reverse is true : many of these same prospects have Notre Dame pretty high up on their own wish list. 
"Notre Dame is positioned early for its finest class in awhile," said Bluechip Illustrated's Rick Kimbrel. "They have more top-line talent looking at them than anyone else. And at every posi­tion." 
One position the Irish won't have to be concerned with tight end, as they already have received a verbal commit­ment from John Cerasini from . He is big, at 6-foot-4, 250-pounds, so there is reason to believe he may not stay at tight end, but Kimbrel disagrees. 
"He is very talented at tight end. liken him to a young Mark Bavaro." 
That is pretty strong praise but that is what the recruiting game is all about. But if there is someone who can play the game, it is Notre Dame. Even with the departure of recruiting coordinator Tony Yelovich, the Irish machine keeps rolling. 
"At most schools, that (Yelovich's departure) would be a blow, but Notre 

Dave Roberts has been a main contributor to Notre Dame's recruting efforts this season. 

Irish reload recruiting team with Michigan's Bob Chmiel 
The season is just getting rolling. Names are being made and wish lists are being compiled weekly, if not daily. If there is ever a time for a complete coordination of efforts, and there most defintely is, this it is. 
With the college football cycle peak­ing, Notre Dame's recruiting coordi­nator Tony Yelovich received a job offer he couldn't turn down. Losing your recruiting coordinator can be tough anytime, but at this time of the year it can be devastating. For most schools. Notre Dame is not most schools. 
Already. the Irish have regeared. 
On Wednesday. Notre Dame announced the hiring of Bob Chmiel, who previously served in the same capacity for Michigan. He immedi­ately brings experience, and maybe more importantly, remarkable recruiting abiltity. 
Michigan has been ranked near, or in more than a few places, at the top of recruiting classes in recent years. Granted, Michigan has a lot to offer, but Chmiel should have more than enough to work with at Notre Dame. 
He is a native Chicagoan and coached at Fenwick High. Henceforth, he should have an exten­Dame is such an institution," noted Kimbrel. "I compare Notre Dame to the prettiest girl at a dance. No matter what she does, she is always going to get asked to dance. Notre Dame is always going to be able to recruit." 
Irish fans know this, but they also know that Ron Powlus has three years of eligibility remaining. Notre Dame land­ed Gus Ornstein at the quaterback posi­tion last season, but Holtz would surely love a bluechip quarterback to take over for Powlus when the time comes. Kimbrel doesn't think they'll have a problem finding one. 
"It is an ideal situation for a young man to come into to. If Powlus contin­ues the way he's going, it is likely he won't be there for three more years. That means a player coming in next year can sit out a year, then sit a year under Powlus' and Holtz's tutelage. By the time Powlus is gone, he's ex­pereinced and ready to take over. Although don't count out Tom Krug. He's a fine quaterback." 
The top two quarterbacks according to Bluechip are Dan Kendra from Bethlehem Catholic (Pa.) and Quincy Woods from Park Forest, ll. Both may be out of Notre Dame's reach. 
Kendra's father played at West Virginia for Bobby Bowden, so ties to either Florida St. or Morgantown may be strong. 
Woods likewise may have some reser­vations about coming to South Bend. but for another reason. Living in the Chicago area, he knows first-hand how brutal the winter weather can be. According to Kimbrel, that may be a problem. 
"He told me last year he was going to warm weather. But last time a talked to him, Notre Dame was stiil on ilie list.'' 
Even if these two do decide to say no to college football's most glamorous (or depending how you look at it, demand­ing) position, there are plenty of prep superstars that wouldn't. 
One thing that any quaterback will look at is what type of protection he has in front of him. As usual, this is an area of major emphasis for the Irish. 
"Notre Dame will be looking for every position, but along with receivers, a real concern is the line," observed Lemming. 
If the past is any indication, Holtz and crew have nothing to be worried about. With the fine reputation that the Irish own for producing NFL line talent, Notre Dame is always within strking distance of the big guys who move people .In addi­tion, the opportunity to play for coach 

The Observer/Jake Peters Defensive coordinator Bob Davie has a rep­utation as a tireless recruiter. 
Joe Moore, who is regarded as one of the best in the business, is very enticing. 
Most notable on the list of recruits is Mike Rosenthal from Mishawaka's Penn High. Sizing out at 6-foot-7, 290­pounds, and living within the shine of the Golden Dome makes Rosenthal, no relation to Irish AD Dick, a seemingly perfect fit for Notre Dam~. 
Others being persued by the Irish include Tim Ridder (6-8.275, Omaha, Neb.), Chester Blackshear (6-3,265, Jacksonville, Fla.), Mike Flaar (6-5, 260, Oswego, Ill.), and Brandon Houston. 
Nothing is even close to definite right now, but nothing ever is at this point. 
The stage that the Irish are at now has to be somewhat comforting. They are a possibilty for numerous talented football players. Now, it is just a matter of con­vincing them that Notre Dame is the place for them. Kimbrel doesn't think that should be too much of a problem. 
"For so many great players, it is just a matter of Notre Dame asking. If they ask, the player will be there. It's almost a spiritual thing." 
With no tight end a year in front of him, 

tr\i$ offensive lfnemen in !he Cla$s <l!;t99!l) so tl1ere I$ a pretty large void to fill. Current sopho· d Chris Clev · · · be flltum malri$tays, so at least there is time to develop a project 
sive network in what has been Notre 
~~~~~f::.~~~~:iJJf~=:~;r~llit~ir~;~·=~; '~>i ··1m· 
Dame's most fertile recruiting 
; ' { \ . > lCL.. .•...•. . . + > > ... Detel)J!vet.l"*! :tQ • . ..... 
grounds, Chicago's Catholic schools 
. Ntit~e tlafria falie\:1 to tand !irJy~oi:ly up' 'frorif:ia$t season, so with 2? schotarsh!ps to work with, you can bet the Irish will (current Irish Brian Hamilton, Jeremy 
!oc:ps ontbis ~ft:l:<!-like a $t:l:JJ!i!JP!e on~pair8f S@fl.~ell\' P~~ers lll<,e Jel'l'Y Wisne (dad ptayed for NO from '66·'68} and Chad Pegues are possibilities; 'tim• : •·· · > " ; HiML · : •··· ·.• • < .
Nau, Kurt Belisle, and 1993 line­backer Pete Bereich). 
;lf.]Ji;; ~ :-}~:i~=~~ ~ 1~f~~1~fr1ilil=u~~~~r~ ·: ~W-·. Teamed with avid recruiters Bob 
l\¥o IT!Oft:l: year~ of ·= f}jigi~iily (after 1994) and 5among this year's frosh, no immdiate need exists. !f!ivie lUis anythin9.to·say abOtit{andhe stire does), the Irish will covet another Bert Berry-type
Davie and Dave Roberts, this trio should form an aggresive, active 
recruitign trio. Throw in Lou Holtz's magic touch in the recruits home, the Irish should soon be on track to regain their customary spot at the top of the recruiting classes. 
need for a consistent place-kicker has been re thing out there, but if there is you can bet 
-TIMSHERMAN 
~~<iday, Septembe< 30, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
JOCK STRIP 
Holtz, Walsh meeting brings the question: Masterminds or mis­
"That figures. (Mumble, mumble )" heart. It doesn't matter 
"What did you say, Bill?" how old we are. Or even "Nothing." what we do for a living. We "Yeah you did, now what did you could be lawyers, school teachers, even say?" septic workers. "Nothing. Now shut up, you little We could even be football coaches. 
W
e're all just little kids at 
brat." What? You gasp? No, I'm serious. ~-··•.J "Who's a brat?" Stanford coach Bill Walsh proved it. Mike Norbut "You are." In Lowell Cohn's book, "Rough Magic: Associate "Well, you're a crummy television Bill Walsh's Return to Stanford Sports Editor analyst. Even Dan Dierdorf makes you 
Football," Walsh is quoted as calling 
Irish coach Lou Holtz a "spoiled little brat." 
Of course, Walsh tried to don the mature coaching facade this week and deny the wreck­less stab at Holtz's coat of armor. 
I hate to break this to you, Coach Walsh, but you can't take it back. Oh no. It's already out there. It's in the forefront of everyone's minds, and on the tips of everyone's tongues. 
And it's making Holtz mad. 
Oh sure, he was a gentleman at his weekly press conference Tuesday, calling Walsh a great coach and a class act in everything he does. 
But his facial expressions, his timely sighs, his struggle to find the right words-they all gave the impression that he could be thinking some­thing else. 
Maybe his true feelings will come out when two of college football's greatest masterminds meet before the game. 
Just imagine what will be said Saturday. 
"Hey Lou." 
"Hey Bill, what have you been up to lately?" 
"Oh, you know, parties, California sun, the usual. Have you been playing much golf?" 
"Yes I have. As a matter of fact, I played a couple of days ago at a course in Mishawaka. They gave me a free cart, free golf, even free balls." 
look stupid. If you didn't quit, NBC would have canned your rear end." 
"Hey, I'm not the one who always says his team's no good and then turns around and cries about not winning the national championship at the end of every season." 
"That's because your team's never good enough to be considered for the national cham­pionship. You always get killed by those wimpy Pac-10 teams." 
"Are you ripping on me? Cause I'd just like to remind you of these." (Walsh holds up his four Super Bowl rings.) 
"You know you won those because of your players. If you didn't have Joe Montana, you would have been crushed. Heaven knows your coaching didn't earn you those rings." 
"You better keep your mouth shut, or these rings will be in your mouth." 
"Yeah, I'd like to see it, tough guy. Why don't you go cry and sip that California Chardonnay, you worthless old man." 
'Til break your face, you hundred-pound weakling!" 
... Now, this conversation is only hypotheti­cal, mind you, but just in case, if you see the ref­erees pulling apart bodies during pre-game warmups, you'll know exactly what went on. 
Because you know, inside every single one of us is a little kid just screaming to get out. 

TEAM 

1. Florida (31) 2. Nebraska (22) 
3. 
Florida St. (4) 

4. 
Penn St. (3) 5. Colorado(1) 6. Arizona (1) 


Michigan 
8. 
Notre Dame 

9. 
Auburn 


11. 
Alabama 

12. 
Washington 

13. 
Miami 


14. 
Virginia Tech 

15. 
Wisconsin 

16. 
Texas 


17. 
Washington St. 

18. 
North Carolina 

19. 
Southern Cal 

20. 
Ohio St. 

21. 
Oklahoma 

22. 
N. Carolina St. Kansas 


24. Colorado St. 25.111inois 


• SPORTS EXTRA STAFF EDITOR: George Dohrmann MANAGING EDTIOR: Jason Kelly ASSOCIATE EDITOR: Mike Norbut 
CONTRIBUTORS: Tim Sherman, Andy Cabiness GRAPHIC DESIGN: Chris Mullins 
RECORD 
3-0-0 4-0-0 4-0-0 4-0-0 3-0-0 3-0-0 2-1-0 3-1-0 4-0-0 3-0-0 4-0-0 2-1-0 2-1-0 4-0-0 2-1-0 3-0-0 3-0-0 2-1-0 2-1-0 3-1-0 2-1-0 3-0-0 3-0-0 4-0-0 2-1-0 
PREY­
POINTS 10us 
1509 1 
1493 2 
1396 3 
1369 5 
1334 7 
1199 8 
1145 4 
1083 9 
1008 10 
935 12 
906 11 
863 17 
791 6 
735 14 
674 16 
666 15 
515 22 
491 13 
462 19 
430 20 
341 21 
266 24 
175 
71 
64 
CJM 


r -Gam;o"';j spec"J;i -, r -NiffY Nine"Jiff; -, r -7aie"N/ihi B;eciai -, r --o;;;14" LBrge -, 
I 1-1411 Large I I 1-1611 Extra Large I I (9:00p.m. until closing) I I Osne Topping I
5

I 1Topping Pizza I I Two Toppings I I 1-1411 Large I I 6g I with 2cans of Coke I I s950 I I li . p· I I T,.,u 74"Lafi-ne I
I and Breadsticks 1 oppmg tzza '••, 1:1 
I s I I I I s595 I I One Topping I 
I 10°0 I I ·• I I I I s11 9~ I 
_______ ........ _______ .... _______ .... _______ .....
L 
Additional Toppings 95c each. No/ valid with any olber coupon I I Addilional Toppings $125 each. Not valid with any other coupon. I LAddillona/ Toppings 95c each. Not valid with any other coupon. I LAddilional Toppings 95c each. Not valid with any other coupon. I 
Friday, September 30, 1994 The Observer•WEEKEND page 17 
-







Original cheerleaders reunite 
By HOMAS KANE 
Accent Writer 
"Change is not always easy," according to Terri Buck­Lewallen, one of four Saint Mary's pioneers who became Notre Dame's first women cheerleaders nearly 25 autumns ago. 
place of display)," said Buck-Lewallen, who noted that some games they didn't have the money to travel. With all this uncertainty, why would these women rush into such a job? 
"Athletics at Notre Dame are superior...it was awesome to have a part in this whole aura," said McCrary-Gray, who did her high school cheering at Hot Springs High School , the 
--------------Arkansas alma-mater of Bill Clinton. The squad will be getting together this "Notre Dame has a mystique ... the friend-
weekend for a reunion. The four include 'Cheerleading wasn't a ship with the men and the women ... I've got Terri Buck-Lewallen, Missy McCrary-Gray, COOl thing ... people goose bumps remembering these things," Annie Stringer-Braly and Molly Tiernan. said Buck-Lewallen. 
thought We should be According to Buck-Lewallen, the benefits The changes going on in this nation at protesting the Vietnam War. • of cheerleading extended far beyond the 
that time were more far reaching than just field. having women gracing the hallowed turf of "Because of cheerleading, I met people I Notre Dame stadium. The nation was in Terri Buck-Lewallen wouldn't have meet otherwise," said Buck-
the midst of the Vietnam War and the riots at Kent State held more of a place in the conscious of the typical student than a games against Michigan State. 
"Cheerleading wasn't a cool thing ... people thought we should be protesting the Vietnam War," Buck-Lewallen said. 
Even as Notre Dame was heading towards coeducation the next fall, the administration was skeptical about how women cheerleaders would be received. 
"Father Joyce called us into his office and said 'You might get booed out of the stadium,"' recalled Missy McCrary-Gray, another one of the original four. 
However, in contrast to the other societal changes that were brewing, and whose benefit would not be known for possibly decades, female cheerleaders at Notre Dame was a change that was warmly embraced almost overnight. 
"Notre Dame students were proud of their cheerleaders," said Buck-Lewallen. 
What McCrary-Gray terms "a natural fear of the unknown" quickly subsided after that first trip through the tunnel. 
"The first time going through the tunnel in an official [capacity] ... our hearts were pounding," said Buck;Lewallen. 
After a game or two, this nervousness gave way to an ex­citement, and this new autumn tradition became a labor of love. 
Practicing cheers that they had learned in high school, and wearing the requisite uniform of a gold sweater. coulotte skirts, saddle shoes, and knee high socks, the group of girls chosen in an open tryout the previous spring quickly bond­ed. 
"We had no coach, and made up our own routines," said Buck-Lewallen, who noted that she may have pursued col­lege athletics had the opportunity for women existed then. 
According to McCrary-Gray, the character of cheerleading has changed since their time. "From high school on, cheer­leading is totally gymnastic driven." 
Unlike today's squads, the university did not completely fund the cheerleading program. "We earned money for our trips by selling megaphones and 'rumper stickers' (like bumper stickers except for the 
Lewallen. 
The first cheerleaders at Notre Dame caught the interest of the nation, as evidenced by a mention in Sports Illustrated, appearances on Dinah Shore and the UltraBrite Youth America show, and newspaper stories that ran from coast to coast. 
Interest in this new concept even extended across the sea. "I even got a letter from a G.I. in Vietnam," said Buck­Lewallen. 
The invaluable skills developed and lessons learned through cheerleading have been carried by these women into their life away from the megaphone. 
"[Cheerleading gave me] the ability to deal with a crowd," said Buck-Lewallen, who now deals with large groups of people as a volunteer at her children's' schools. 
She has converted her talent at inventing cheers into writ­ing jingles for a children's traffic safety program. Instead of screaming out "Here come the Irish", she now sing s and performs a traffic song she composed which goes: "Buckle me up when I'm in the car...Driving Near or far ... Adults obey the rules ... Point Vincentes think safe at school" 
Buck-Lewallen has learned the importance of persever­ance and teamwork in order to achieve success from her days under the Dome. Quoting Scott Peck in his book "The Road Less Traveled" Buck-Lewallen noted, " 'Life is difficult' :--­... Football had that drive, spirit. Notre Dame brings the spir­it to believe in and search for yourself." Buck-Lewallen has even taken her CCD class to see the movie "Rudy." 
According to both women, following your heart and not let­ting skepticism interfere with your dreams is the key. "Go ahead and do what you enjoy ... and it can snowball," said McCrary-Gray. · 
"Go for it ... there are always risks with rewards. You'll never know if you don't believe in yourself," echoed Buck­Lewallen. 
While hearing the victory march always stirs the heart of Buck-Lewallen, this is not the ritual she remembers most. Instead it was a ritual that reinforced a belonging on a larger scale, that united a nation in an ever-changing world. 
"Hearing the national anthem before each game...thinking about all of the people united, not just at Notre Dame,...it made me cry," Buck-Lewallen said, "It was more than foot­
-

ball." 

page 18 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, September 30, 1994 
-
Hoorah for the Pope as the One-Eyed Reilly 
Father Robert Griffin 
f3ellers lo a 13onefj 9od 
The Polish Pope, sick, per­haps mortally stricken, and unable to come to America, is still, veritably, a lion in winter. As a tragic hero, his great pre­decessor, Pope Paul VI, per­ceived to be hesitant, was dubbed "Hamlet." John Paul II, fallen into the sere and yellow leaf, reminds me, not altogether appropriately, of King Lear. Seeing him look fragile in the Times last week, I was remind­ed of what Lear's faithful daughter Cordelia had to say: "Was this a faceffo be oppos'd against the warring winds?" 
John Paul may be saddened 
' Being Pope, it seems to me, is no bed of roses.' 
by contradictions, but he's scarcely maddened by them. As the successor of Peter wearing the Fisherman's ring, he's more like Frodo the hobbit, burdened by the one ring of power, than he is the storm-damaged monarch, impotent with rage in a tempest. But the Pope is Lear­like in this: the members of his own household take turns try­ing to make him an object of scorn. 
Being Pope, it seems to me, is no bed of roses. To be credible as the vicar of Christ, infallible in matters of faith and morals, must mean undertaking mis­sions impossible through the badlands, every day of one's life. Denominational Christians question the theology which leaves the Bishop of Rome ensconced as the Servant of the in our overpopulated world, is best seen as a source of fun ....what could be more moral than teaching teenagers that homosexuality is a viable life-style? Or that masturbation is harmless and normal? Or that petting, under most cir­cumstances, makes far more sense than begetting?" 
Doubtlessly, sex is, or should be, fun, though Christians have always suspected that it also has a deeper meaning which relates to their souls. Sex as pure fun has led to AIDS and thirty million abortions, Sex as pure fun is what the sexual rev­olution has been all about. The Roman pontiffs have been warning us since before Wade vs. Roe that sex as pure fun leads the way to the killing fields. Dr. Ruth may be 
'If you can convince 
me that the Pope is a phoney, we'll scuttle our Catholicism together, at an auto-de-fe the size of a circus tent.' 
smarter than the Roman pontif­fs, but isn't it healthy to have them firing warning shots across our bow? 
On a nouveau-riche campus like Notre Dame, it could be a mistake if allegedly Christian scholars were to make a habit of turning a deaf ear to the Roman pontiffs. Roma locuta est, causa finita est, wrote Augustine, but perhaps not entirely. I'm neither a scholar nor a theologian; but it seems to me that when the Pontifff reaches a dead end in his think­ing, it must be the duty of the think-tank to help him. But must they do it in a way that seems to rival the official mag­isterium? 
George MacDonald was a 19th century minister who served as mentor to the Oxford Christians-C.S. Lewis, Tolkien, Charles Williams-who wrote as Inklings. "At the root of all George MacDonald's earthly wisdom," wrote Lewis, "was the experience of an almost perfect relationship with his own father. From his own father, he said, he first learned that Fatherhood must be at the core of the universe. He was thus prepared in an uriusual way to teach that religion in which the relation of Father and Son is of all relations the most central." 
The unchanging Providence of God as the sky-father is an old-fashioned idea that libera­tion theology has been happy to get rid of. Maybe it's an idea that needs to be put back in place. It's hard to make an act of faith, if the Power that sus­tains us is a rolling stone. As the visible father of Christendom, the Pope isn't a rolling stone, either. He should remind us of "the demands made by God on man's fidelity, the inexorable love of a God whose Fatherhood is a strong and consuming fire." Shouldn't prayer be understood as the perfect relationship between man and his Heavenly Father? 
It's done more good than this world dreams of for the Church to have had a Polish Pope. Next to a Jewish mother, a Polish Pope is the best. 


servants of God, exercising authority as the Church's top banana. Still, as Roman Catholics we credit him with having his authority from the Lord. In the kingdom of the blind, the saying goes, the one­eyed man shall be king. Millions of Catholics say hoorah for the Pope as the one-eyed Reilly. 
As the only Church that has a Pope, what should we do with him? Since he's obviously much more than the idiot-savant uncle who drools when he talks, we're obliged not only to listen to him, but to be impressed by him. We're oblig­ed to regard him as wiser and more-experienced than our­selves. From the day of his elec­tion, he's on a journey more perilous than Frodo's. The Fisherman's ring he wears can corrupt him, if he attempts to be the lord of the ring, and not its servant. Frodo was entrust­ed with the one ring of power because he was virtuous as a hobbit; otherwise, the power of the ring could have eaten his mind. A pope, when he's elect­ed, should be virtuous as a Catholic: otherwise, misusing the spiritual power that comes with the territory, he could become the anti-Christ. 
The $64,000 question which started the Reformation was: "Is the empowerment of the Pope in accord with the will of Christ, or has he stolen his office?" If you believe in your heart that he is a usurper, then you should run-not walk-to the nearest gangplank leading off the Ark. Over two hundred Christian denominations would happily accept you as a mem­ber whom they will help to become a born-again. If you can convince me that the Pope is a phoney, we'll scuttle our Catholicism together, at an auto-de-fe the size of a circus tent. 
But if you should decide that the Pope is the real McCoy as the left hand of God, then you should make him your prayer­pardner in spreading the Good News. There are payoffs in fol­lowing the shoes of the Fisherman. First of all, standing close to the Polish Pope, you could start to notice that he has the charm of Asian, the lordly lion of Narnia. Secondly, in a glib world, he represents a viable second opinion. I remem­ber something I read just recently in Time. "The happiest consequence of overpopula­tion.. .is that sex can finally, after all these centuries, be sep­arated from the all-too-serious business of reproduction ... This means, at a minimum, guaran­teeing contraception, with abortion as a backup, to all who need it. But it also means telling our teenagers ... that sex, 

wllb CD-ROM, A«JJe' Mulllplt Sam 15 Display,AhJ/e[)esign' f(ey/Joard and moust.
-
With Apples special low student pricing, you can get aterrific deal on Macintosh; Macintosh--the worlds fastest Mac~ And because Macintosh is still the easiestpersonal com-the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the afford-puter, you won't have to dig through complex manuals. Plus, with lowstudentpricing, aMac able Macintosh Perfonna; which comes complete with Jots of powerful software to help .is as easy to afford as it is to use. All ofwhich makes it the ideal time to Ap l .~. get you through college. You can also choose the portable AppJe• PowerBook" or the Power discover the power all college students need. The power to beyour best~ p1e . 
:n., .

Q·~'-1 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 

Friday, September 30, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds ....Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. · 
I NEED TWO NAVY G.A. I need 2 Stanford GAs for my par­Help! I need two Stanford GA's call I need a "Drink like a champion CALL MIKE X3692 ents. Please call Tom at 271-9576. Jen at 273-0741 today" t-shirt please. Call Mud at 
~-N_O__ __~I ~~--F_O_R_REN_T Thanks!
T_IC_E_S __ __~ X2569 
I NEED G.A.'S FOR NAVY NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE AND II!IIATTENTION SOPHMORESIIIII THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, CALL JEREMY X4183 I NEED STANFORD AND FLA ST STANFORD! CALL BOB '1233 Student Activities is accepting The Class of '97 Service Project will NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED GAs· 631-6696 CHRIS applications for a be kicking off the year with a house BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO Need 1 Stanfordstud. or GA Need 2 STANFORD GAs for dad Stepan Building Manager. painting project on Sunday, 10/9. It NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE Call Nick 289-9708 $$$NEED 2 STANFORD TIX and bro. TOP $$! Anna x2286. For more information and/or an will be the first of many projects OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219-CALL X3526 $$$ application stop by 315 LaFortune. 
with the Northeast Neighborhood. 773-2034 NEED 2 GA BYU tix and 2·6 GA NEED 8 STAN FORD TICKETS. Apply by Friday, September 30. Help us get off to a great start and Stanford tix. Please call Rachael CALL GRANT 416-865-7741. help us help others. Talk to your ROOM FOR RENT, NO-STAN­at #4667. I DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA's to Danielle, Sophomore Class Council Dorm FORD G:t>.ME. CALL 255-9005 the Navy Game for my parents from I NEED ONE AIR FORCE TICKET­Hope you have better luck finding Rep, or call Brian at x1058. Thanks FOR MORE INFORMATION. NEED 2 GA's for NAVY & NY -Please help! GA OR STUDENT. PLEASE CALL the bars this wkend, than you've -trust us... NEED 4 GA's for BYU Call Brian x1058-Thank you. X3816. THANKS! had finding sperm! •••••••you WILL HAVE FUN!""'" BEAUTIFUL ROOMS W/PRIVATE CALL Chris x-1353 HAPPY 21ST B'DA Yl 
........*....................***••••••••• 
BATHS FOR RENT FOR FOOT­I NEED 1 GA for NAVY. VERY Polly& Dawn TODAY IS THE LAST DAY TO BALL WKNDS. 3 MI. FROM CAM­I need 2 Stanford GA's x1659 Desi STANFORD GAME-NEED IMPORTANT! Brian 273-8553 SEND IN YOUR DOLLAR II PUS. (219) 277-8340. 3GA'S&2STUDS PLEASE 2773109 The Notre Dame Ultimate Frisbee send to: 54655 Irish Way #203 NEED 3 STUDENT STANFORD NO Alum Needs 2 STANFORD Club will be having the first official 
S.B., IN 46637 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. TXTS-X2377. NEED 2 NAVY GA'S GAs, BIG$$! Call217-337·6862 practice of the year this Sunday PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC PAUL X4327 night from 8:0Q-9:00 in Loftus. All 
USED TEXTS CHEAP!!!! EVENTS. 219-291-7153. Long lost family and friends coming Elp-hay! !-hay eed-nay oo-tay An­are welcome. No experience neces­Buy & sell used books at the only for STANFORD game! Desperately Need 2 BYU ga or studs -WILL ford-stay ickets-tayll All-cay lkki­sary and everyone is encouraged to hip place in town 1 0-6M-S/9-3Sun 1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR need 7 tixl Call Donald x1844. PAY BIG$$$$ Call Kate @2732 nay at-hay X4081. give it a shot. For more information, PANDORA'S BOOKS RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS contact Dave at x3438 or Tony at 
ND ave & Howard St 233-2342 PROPEJ;ITIES. 272-6306 FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL ###################### Need 2 Navy GA's. Call287-1953 233-4345. 
HOME GAMES. 272-7233. WANTED: 4 Stanford GAs Downtown Book Wholesaler needs Looking for Student Tenant call Whitney NEED 4 STANFORD ST. TIX Qualify Copies, Quicklylll clerical &/or warehouse clean,furnished, !-bedroom apt. FLYING OUT FROM CALIFORNIA @ 288-2589 HEATHER x2580 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 workers flexible schedule & wkend $275. 607 E. Corby-3 blocks -DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA ###################### LaFortune Student Center work 232-8500 X22 west of N.D. Ave. Deposit, TICKETS TO STANFORD GAME! Angry Airmen need Air Force GA's. Phone 631-COPY ask for Bryan references,800-582-9320 (916)671-3299 KEVIN FOR SALE: 2 Stanford GA's. Serve your country. Call x4816. 
273-9838. ET IN ARCADIA EGO $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ DO YOU NEED A HOTEL ROOM Family flying from ALASKA for 1st Need three GAs for any home Interested in the secret histories of NEED CASH? FOR THIS WEEKEND? NO game. Need 4 BYU ticks., stu. I WANT YOU to sell me 2 BYU game. Call Matt at 289-2710 covert social forces? Seeking true 
MORRISSEY STUDENT LOAN -RELATIVES FROM OUT OF or G.A. PLEASE! Call shannon GAs. Please call271-0226. baaahh power & wealth? Fascinated by -30 day loan TOWN HAD CHANGE OF PLANS 291-6288 the politics of opportunism & -$10 to $250 loan amounts AND WILL NOT BE USING IT! Need 1 Stanford stu. tick. Call Need 1 Stanford ticket­manipulation? Prepared to do what­-1% interest -IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN NEED TIX • 5 BYU GA'S, 4 STAN­Shannon 291-6288 Kevin @ 289-3203 ever it takes to get what you -Open Mon. -Fri. 11:30 to 12:30 RENTING A DOUBLE ROOM AT FORD GA'S -Call Joe @ x2765 want? If this is your truth, you may 
neX1 to LaFortune Info. Desk THE SIGNATURE INN FOR THIS HELP!! Looking for 2 GAs for BYU HELPII I NEED BC GA'S. PLEASE be spiritually fit to join the $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ COMING FRIDAY AND SATUR­Call 277-3811 CALL LIZ X2325. :) Bavarian llluminatii. DAY NIGHT PLEASE CALL PATTY NEED 2 AIRFORCE TICKETS!! We will have our first meeting on HEMP CAN SAVE THE PLANET @X1556 Call Christy @ 4956 NEED MANY STANFORD TIX NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S Friday, Sept 30, at 8pm in the $$ call Pete x1728 CALLX4570 lobby of the Architecture Building. CHANGE IN PLANS! LOCAL 2 Conspiratorial elitists & Machia­
ILOST & FOUND I
PERSON B+B RESERV. AVAIL. Taking the LSAT? Sell me your SALE:2STAND/2BYU vellian personalities· are welcome. 9/30-10/1. 617-484-4618 Desperate and lovely Mormons Stanford ticket. Call Will at xt699. best offer leave mess 288-8680 No jokers/slackers/Discordians ..... REWARD ..... 
Need 3 BYU Tickets need attend. This is a serious offer: A $250 REWARD GOES TO Call x2703. NEED 4 Air Force G.A.'s. Will Need 2 Stanford tix Call Gary 800-come fulfill your destiny! 
FOR SALE
ANYONE WHO CAN RETURN TRADE 4 FLA. ST. G.A.'s or other 227-4000, ext. 612 M·Thr 12-4. MY 1991 CANNONDALE RED home game G.A.'s. Joe x1748. SMC-ND STUDENTS SUMMER. SHRED COMPETITION SERIES Tired of walking? CLASSIC 1972 NEED FSU TIX WANTED: 1 STANFORD TRAVEL PROGRAMS LONDON BIKE. A SMALLER REWARD .NOVA, 4 Dr, 61K, Auto, PS, New SUSAN 2771724 NEED 2 STANFORD GAs STUD/GAl CALL Rachel #4-4093 AND ROME. CREDITS IN BUEC, GOES TO ANYONE WHO CAN Tires, Runs Greaat! Some rust, CALL CHRIS AT X4386 ED, MUSIC, HIST, & ITALIAN. GIVE ME REAL INFO AS TO ITS $1100, Leave message 299-1774. NEED STANFORD GA'S Help!! I need 2 BYU and 2 Navy TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOT­WHEREABOUTS. PLEASE MATT 257-0564 DESPERATE! GAs. Call Monica X4091. LAND, FRANCE, SWITZ. MEET­HELP ME -SOMEONE IS NOW 93 Men's Cruiser Supreme 6 Speed Need 2 Stanford GA's ING OCT. 3, 6:30 CARROLL HALL RIDING AROUND ON MY LIFE Bike. Almost new. $150. I have 2 Navy GA's to trade for 2 Call Todd x1052 Bevin needs 4 Stanford GAs. Call (SMC) FOR INFO CALL PROF. SAVINGS. -JANET x1572 654-7887 (evenings). BYU GA's. Call Joe x4024 X2533 and sell them to her. A.R. BLACK· 284-4460 OR 272­
.... NEED BYU TIX ....... 
3726 FOUND: A watch at the Observer '71 M.G. MIDGETT RED CON­I need 2 NAVY GAs Call 289-9050 SELLING STANDFORD STD TICK­Classified Department. VERTIBLE. SHARP, RUNS GOOD. Will pay Big $$$ ET AND BOOKLET. LUIS 2731528 You don't really want to drive all the 
Please come back to claim it. $1,700. CALL 277-3239. Please call Laura at 284-4328 HELP! I need 4 Navy tickets-stud. way to BC... Save your time & earn 
and GA. Call Brian at x.2034. NEED Stanford tickets, student some$$ Sell me your tix x1475 FOUND: Small pair of keys outside Multi-track Cassette Recorder. Need 3 Stanford Tix, GA preferred or GA-Call Rob@ 1900 of Zahm. To claim call Ed at x3334. 4 tracks; 12 inputs. New $999; Sell Call 234-6843. Ask for Dan For SALE: 3 Stud. STanford tix. SUPPORT GROUP FOR RAPE 
$675. 277-5912; 631-7133 Manley. 289-9420 Need Stanford GA's. Call Collect SURVIVORS Open to Notre Dame FOUND (mid-September): small 513-339-7068 & St Mary's Students; HELD ON crucifix, near library circle. call SMC CLASS RING Two married student tickets for sale CAMPUS; FREE; CONFIDENTIAL kirsten at 4-4185 if you think it PETITE W/DIAMOND Please Please Please Please for remaining games. Call287· I need Navy GA's. Paul at X2681 Sponsored by Sex Offense might be yours. 10K GOLD I need 4 Stanford GA's 0611 if interested. Services 234-Q061 eX1. 1308 
MAKE AN OFFER Will trade Navy GA's or buy. Desperately Need 2 Stanford GA's 273-6205 -Bryan x 1190 Needed: one BYU ticket. Please call Chris @ 1527 Rian Akey has bad timing ... 

WANTED 
Please call 634-1439 is he going to visit Gerry? 
BEAN OWNER I NEED 2 BYU GA'sl BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR ONE­JAMISON INN PARTNERSHIP I HAVE 2 NAVY GA TIX I NEED 2 BYU GAs Call Julie @277-4612 YO, CURTIS A. I! WHArS YOUR HOUR AM EXERCISE CLASSES. SELLING A LIMITED I NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA TIX CALL McKENNA 271-2956 NAME GOING TO BE NEXT PAID POSITION PLUS FREE # OF MINI-SUITE CONDOMINI­LETS MAKE A TRADE WANTED BOTON COLLEGE YEAR? EXERCISE MEMBERSHIP. CALL UMS $65,000-70,000 I'LL PAY THE DIFFERENCE FOR SALE: Grad tix 4 NO home 2771659 277-0111 FOR MORE INFO. 1 )Guaranteed Reservations DENISE X2549 games. 634-3229. So...How does it feel to be 
2)Six nights free per year Have 2 Stan. stud tix Call 273-4372 OVER THE HILL? MACRI'S DELl 3)Professionally managed I HAVE 2 NAVY GA TIX Stanford tickets for sale!! IIIII And If Happy 22nd MO Garcia!! Help wanted. Need 8-12 energetic 4 )Substantial cash return I NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA TIX you are interested I offer you also INDIGO GIRLS-NEED 1·2 tixl It's all downhill from here ... people to complete our staff. Front 5)Never go looking for a room for LETS MAKE A TRADE the whole book with the remaining 271-1532 We luv ya anyway oh old one­and back of the house positions football games again I'LL PAY THE DIFFERENCE game tickets. So, hurry up, and call Bets, Etak, JA, Jule, and AM available. Good starting pay with Call Missy Bornheimer-Coldwell DENISE X2549 219/634/4475 right now! need 1 stanford stud or ga tick-call benefits and bonuses. Flexible Banker Anchor 259-6317, 259-mike 271-9471 Valencia-Good luck on the LSATI hours, excellent working conditions. 7573, NEED BYU GA'S. CALL ERIN I HAVE STAN STUD TIX 4 SALE -anabel Apply within 214 Niles 235-3180 24hr voice mail or #4015 CHRIS 1-6696 Looking for 2 Stanford GAs. Call Ave. 1/2 block South of Corby's. Jamison Inn 277-9682 Steve X-4556. it's not late, it's only 3:30a.m. 282-1351 $1 NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S$ NEED FOOTBALL TICKETS!!I!!!Il! 
CONDO FOR SALE-Woodbridge­CALL AMY X2652 -(2-4) STANFORD GA"S $Pay Big Bucks$ (rich friend) Wanted: The return of JASON NEED EXTRA CASH? Minutes from NO-end unit on pond--(2·4) BYU GA's for 1 BYU stu. tik. Joe 4018 KELLY'S PICK! Bill Knapps Restaurant is now hir­18177F Stoneridge-2BR+Loft, Need 2 Standford tix -(1-2) BYU GA's My meals have been disastrous. ing servers and hostesses. We offer Fireplace, Att Gar w/Opener­Call Chris x3767 please call Ll N D I 284-5151 NY Alum needs 1-4 tickets for BYU no longer have distinguished culi­great pay and flexible schedules. $58,000-Call232-5190. game. Call 1-800-666-4949 nary advice to help me pick out my Apply today at Need 2 STANFORD GA's Selling 1 Stanford stud tix ext. 220. Ask for Ann Hiens meals. Please, please, I beg of 222 Dixieway (US 31-33) SCHWINN COLLEGIATE 3-SPEED Please call Curtis -282-2197 Call4-2010 you, BRING BACK JASON 
272-0370. BIKES, MAN'S & WOMAN'S, NEW &&&&&&&&&&&& KELLY'S PICK! 
TIRES, TUBES, COMFORT I need Navy GA's PLEASE! Need 1 Stanford StdJGA Need 2 tickets HELP WANTED: SEATS. $100 EACH. 277-2182. Call Brandon at x-3460 Andy 289-3736 to see Maya Angelou Kathie Young isn't so young ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER at SMC. Please help me. anymore ... yeah silly Trish ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS FOR SALE '83 HONDA PRELUDE PLEASE HELP: Desparately need 4 BYU GA's Call4-4478. NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND GOOD COND. $3200 o.b.o. Holy Cross (MA) Women's and Call Megan at 4072 &&&&&&&&&&&& KP ... does it leave little red marks? ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY 288-9612 KIANA Men's X-Country Teams NEED NEWS SERVICES, Tickets to Stanford Game (GA or desperately seeking 1 student stan­NEED SEASON STUDENT TICK­TR ... do we need to make another 
232-3205 OR 288-9361. Stud) please call Ted at 4-1663 ford ticket call christina at 284-5200 ET BOOKLET OR STUDENT TICK­trip to target b4 the weekend? 

TICKETS 
ET TO STANFORD GAME. PIZZA MAKER -PART TIME -I need 2 GA's for Stanford. Mike need Stanford GA's. CALL JOE X2712 Thanx for the scribbles ..how many EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU 289-3203 Can only pay face value. times did you climax ? MONEY. TICKETS. CALL call Jim. 277-3953 I NEED STANFORD GA'S­
CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW 800-922-2327 JANET. I NEED BYU GA'S CALL KEVIN @ X3457 Sorry to interrupt the "conversation" YORK 257-1100. CALL JEFF @ 277-8250 NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. BOSTON COLLEGE GAs BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC SCHADL Will Pay big $ for Indigo Girls tix -272-6551 I need 3 G.a>'s to B.Y.U. If u Call Marc at X3300 or X3309 We need Boston College tickets! 232-3167 Jay can help, call Ron at x1736 NEEDNEEDNEEDNEEDNEED Call Jeff or Eric at 232-8337 take care of a few things at General 
CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC Mills, cheryl NOTRE DAME. I would if I had tick­Desperate for BYU GA VOLUNTEERS ARE NEEDED AT ets to the Stanford game. Alum Ted@4-3485 Need Stnfrd stdnt or GA tixs, call sorry chavez, next week, i promise. 

PERSONAL

THE EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVEL­REALLY wants to return to campus Chris x1197 "i am eggman, co-co-cachoo II" OPMENT CENTER AT NOTRE with family. Student tix ok. Price NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR STANFORD DAME & SAINT MARY'S. SER­negotiable. Call collect after 6 pm Parents coming from CALIFORNIA Please! I need 1 BYU GA and someone prick me, i know you !! come baby, come baby, VICES SUCH AS READING, (516) 499-5009. CALL JENNIE AT 272-0108 2 STANFORD GAs! baby, come come CRAFTS & PLAYING WITH CHIL­Mary Beth x4220 YOOHOOI Where R U? 3 chicks 
.... 

DREN. 75 MINS. ONCE A WEEK. WANTED: BYU GA'S WILL PAY I need one Air Force GA or student looking 4 NICE guys & cant find hello david, my GCC friend I PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 284-BIG BUCKS. CALL KRISTEN OR ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call any. If UR out there, write to 4693. KATE@ 271-0224 call X3822. Thanks! Sue at 277-8995 The B. U.S. 672 Lemans Hall MILK...it's what's for snack. 
,~----------------------.----­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 30, 1994 
-
• WOMEN'S INTERHAI..l • MEN'S SOCCER 

Upstart Lewis 
knocks of 

Farley, 13-6 
By SHANNON O'DONNELL Spons Wrirer 
Being ranked No. 12 in this week's women's interhall foot­ball poll had no affect on the Chickens of Lewis Hall as they blitzed, rushed and pushed No. 9 Farley all over the field last night, showing Farley's Finest who was in command and win­ning the game 13-6. 
Ironically, Farley's offense took control of the game im­mediately after quarterback Molly Riestenberg completed a long touchdown pass to run­
:: ning back Heather Moran. A missed point-conversion put Farley up 6-0 within the first two minutes of the game. 
Lewis was not about to be pushed around, though. Their offense stormed right back, converting a fourth down into a Mary Beth Failla touchdown on a sweep to the left. 
The Chickens' Amy Granata put six more points on the board for Lewis with a run that left every Farley defensive player in the dust. Untouched, she blew through everyone, heading for the endzone. Lewis' Patti Vassallo ran in for the point-after, giving them the lead 13-6 at the end of the first half. 
The Chickens knew all they
-
had to do the second half was prevent Farley from scoring. With numerous all-out blitzes and effective blocks, Lewis proved they were in command. Granata intercepted a Reistenberg pass late in the half to ice the victory. "I was at the right places at the right times," Granata said. "Everything just ran really smoothly. It was a great team­effort." 
Siegfried 0, Pasquerilla WestO 
Let's just say the women's in­terhall football match-up be­tween No. 7 Siegfried and No. 4 Pasquerilla West was as even as they come. 
The Slammers' defense came out strong with a quick sack. They forced the Purple Weasels to punt and attempted to show what they could do on offense. It wasn't much as Siegfried also found themselves punting after their first possession. 
This pattern became quite familiar throughout the rest of the game. Siegfried did score one touchdown, temporarily breaking the monotony of the game, only to have it called back by a holding penalty. 
~Unfortunately, once again we couldn't convert," P.W.'s captain Bridget Magenis said. "We had lots of good drives, but we couldn't get the ball into the endzone," 
"Our defense came together as a whole," said Magenis. "They really pulled through when we needed them to. They kept them out; they kept them from scoring." 
"One person can't make a game," said Siegfried's Kathleen Clark. "just like one 
... 
person can't break a game. Tonight we were just a little out of sync. We had a lot of problems with our timing." 
Irish leave spotlight behind, return to MCC play 
By JARED PATZKE 
Spons Writer 
Now that all the national tele­vision lights and cameras are turned off, the Notre Dame men's soccer team is returning its focus to winning the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. After playing three games in a six day span of time, the Fighting Irish are glad to be at home in the friendly confines of Alumni Field as they prepare to play the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee on Sunday at 1 p.m. 
After suffering losses to the No. 1-ranked team in the nation, Indiana University, and to Wake Forest on national television, the Irish are anxious to get back into their winning ways. What better place to start than at home, where they're a perfect five for five this season. 
The Irish will be without start­ing forward Tim Oates. who is serving the second of a two­game suspension which he received for a red card in an earlier game versus La Salle. Notre Dame seemed to miss Oates' scoring punch while playing Wake Forest. They out­shot the Demon Deacons 16-2, but were unable to finish on any of their shots, ending up losing the game 1-0. 
"Sure, we missed Tim a lot, but we still should've won," said senior midfielder Jason Fox. "We had plenty of oppurtuni­ties. Nothing went in for us though." 
Another senior midfielder, Kevin Adkinsson, added to Fox's analysis of the game. 
"We could have and should have won against Wake Forest. We're not playing badly at all. We did everything but finish. It's only a matter of time before we start clicking." 
Despite the disapointing final score for the Irish on national television, the team's goals are is clearly set on winning the Midwestern Collegiate Conference, and the game on Sunday verse Wisconsin­Miwaukee is an important step. 
"The conference is a dir~ct ticket to the NCAA tournament, and that's the major focus of this entire season," Fox said. 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee is enter­ing the game on Sunday with a 4-4-1 record. Their Midwestern Conference record stands at 1-1-1. 
The team's strenghth lies in Eric Stempinski coming off the bench and creating plays. He leads the team with 11 points coming from five goals and one assist. Trevor Sisk is also a consistent player who's scored four goals and added an assist for the Panthers. 
Goalkeeper Paul Royal. who only gives up a stingy 1.46 goals a game, will look to limit the devasting Irish homefield scoring average. 
Notre Dame will try and make Wisconsin-Milwaukee their next victim of a homefield mas­sacre. In their five home games, the Irish have outscored their opponents 27-1. 
With the absence of Oates, the Irish will be looking for fresh­men forward sensation Ryan Turner and freshman forward Bill Savarino to come up big in the goal scoring department. 
"With Oates being out, we'll expect to see the freshmen step up and contribute," Fox said. 
The defense, anchored by senior goally Bret Bader, has allowed only three goals in the last five games. Two of these goals were to No. 1-ranked Indiana. Another staunch per­formance is expected on Sunday, as the defense looks for its fifth shutout of the sea­son. 
With the five game winning streak on the line and two disa­pointing defeats behind them, Notre Dame is looking to come up big on Sunday. In doing so, the Irish will take another step toward the Midwestern Conference title, and more importantly, another step toward a NCAA tournament berth. 



Innovation 
Opportunity 
ZS Associates is a rapidly growing, entrepreneurial management consulting firm driven by creativity and enterprise. Just 10 years old, we work in 49 countries, employ 125 professionals, and have offices on both sides of the Atlantic. 
We combine our knowledge of sales and marketing issues with sophisticated analytical techniques and innovative software tools to provide clients with real-world solutions. 
ZS offers career opportunities to talented people who want to make a difference. If you want the challenge of early responsibility, significant client contact, and an environment that rewards motivation and ingenuity, then consider joining our team. 
• 
Business Associates work as integral parts of the ZS consulting team to address a client's sales force or marketing issues. As a BA you will be involved in collecting and analyzing data -as well as developing creative client solutions. BA's typically have bachelors degrees in Business, Economics, Political Science, Mathematics or History, though other majors are also considered. 

• 
Operations Research Associates build mathematical models and optimization algorithms to develop creative solutions for sales and marketing problems. As an OR Associate, you will perform statistical analysis and design simulations using workstations and personal computers. Qualifications include a bachelors or masters degree in Industrial Engineering, Operations Research. Statistics, or Mathematics. 

• 
Programmer Analysts work interactively with project teams on all aspects of database development. As a PA you will be responsible for maintaining ZS' systems, as well as 


creating new internal processes and tools. Computer Science or MIS. 
Sound interesting? Come and learn morel 
zs 
CHICAGO • PRINCETON • LONDON 
7-------------------~--------------------~----~------·~-~------------------~ 
page 21 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 30, 1994 • ~ 
• COLLEGE FO!lTBAU ~ 
Nebraska plans to 'step up level of play' 
Associated Press Nebraska Cornhuskers are "Where are they stepping it Frazier was released from the planning to step up their level to, the moon?" Tiller asked of hospital Wednesday after hav­Wyoming coach Joe Tiller of play to make up for the loss the second-ranked Huskers. ing a blood clot behind his right cringed when he heard the of Tommie Frazier. "It's pretty good right now." knee treated. He cannot have physical contact until he stops 

taking blood thinners because of the risk of internal bleeding, coach Tom Osborne said. 
/1'/. . '··. 
Nebraska (4-0) will start Brook Berringer, whose passing skills contrast sharply with Frazier's specialty -running the Cornhuskers' option game. 
MULTICULTJM_*fALL FESTIVAL 
Tiller doesn't think it will mat­ter against his Cowboys (2-2). 
SPIRITUAL CELEBRATION 
"Nebraska is Nebraska when it comes to offense," the Wyoming coach said. "They'v~ got tools and they're going to bring the ball at you. You don't lead the nation in rushing for 10 years in a row by accident." 
Osborne doesn't think the Huskers have to alter much for Berringer. 
"We have full confidence in Brook. He's a very good player and has been in our system long enough that he knows what he's doing," Osborne said. 
Nebraska coaches claim to have one of the best offensive lines in the school's history. 

OCTOBER 2, 1994 FIELDHOUSE MALL 




Big Scree .v. 
r.

~2:00 -2:00PM 
COME HEAR A GREAT CAMPUS BAND 
Road Apples 
~:00 -3:00PM 

watch

LErS CELEBRATE RELIGIOUS DIVERSITY 

re Dame Ave. 


creen T.V. 
-

.....; 




India Association Muslim Students Association Native American Students Association Spanish Choir Voices ofFaith Gospel Choir 
EVENT TO BE HELD IN LAFORTUNE BALLROOM PENDING RAIN 
SPONSORED BY THE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNffi 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus " Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
Special Hours Football Weekends! Friday & Saturday 9 a.m. -7 p.m. 

Double Prints available everyday(see store for details) 
.... 
~-----------------------------------------------------­


• The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Kristy Kramer and the Irish hope to recover from a loss to Georgetown. 
• WOMEN'S iNTERHAU. 
Off-campus, Pasquerilla East tie 6-6 
By SHANNON O'DONNELL--Sports Writer 
VVhat looked like an aggres­sive showdown between two completely different teams be­came a chaotic battle for last­minute points to secure a win. However, neither off-campus nor Pasquerilla East could come up with a quick touch­down in the final seconds and thus the game ended tied, 6-6. 
"We had so many opportuni­ties to score, and we couldn't convert on the one yard line," off-campus' Michelle Drury said. 
Off-campus was able to score on a sweep to the left on the first play of the game, threatening a possible annihi­lation of P.E. Down 6-0, the Pyros _showed off-campus they could play up to their stan­dards as Marina Atticus turned a dump pass into a 6-6 ball game. 
"I basically caught a great pass in the center of the field and just ran the ball in," said Atticus. "The offensive line made some great blocks, and I had a lot of room to run. 
From then on, it was a battle of the defenses. 
Just as off-campus put to­gether what looked like a cer­tain scoring drive, the Pyros' put together a defense that stopped everything that came its way. 
Off-campus activated their prevent defense after P.E. took over on downs and began mov­ing toward the endzone. They didn't make it there, though, and according to the Pyros' quarterback Nikole Neidlinger, this was typical of their season thus far. 
"The team is having trouble scoring in goal-line positions. We need to learn how to score on first-and-goal," she said. "We have the talent; we just need to get it together." 
Friday October 7, 1994 8nm-12am Stenan Center 
Orl--AND ENTERTAINMENT FROM AROUND THE 
.t,~ ......lll'tl/111: 
:1f~<ll~tllllu;w'Lvrutn" ,~,1,., 11 
~ 
So come join the fun, stop by before SYRS! weekend in a unique way and bring all your friends! 
:7U:JZIRJ11~ .S.Jo,.o!/.,,.,o, U,-aJ o/:laA, tlJa,., ..5/,...;, tl%u.. ta11 ..,u/a ?'"'al mph/ o/},, .hna, j1o/, ..,ufmuJic/ 
TL\STE OF NL\TIONS 

Voted "Best Coffee in Michiana" -Michiana Now Gourmet Coffee • Gourmet Sandwiches 
Saturday's Breakfast Specials start at $2.99 
282-2522 
Closed Sunday 

Irish looking for repeat win 
By RANDY WASINGER 
Sports Writer 
Anyone who's run around the lakes on a busy afternoon knows that it can be difficult to navigate along the crowded paths as oncoming runners bat­tle for your limited space. 
If you think that can be rough at times, imagine running a race with over 100 runners while remaining within a cou­ple of yards on either side of a white line. 
Imposible? No. Exciting? Possibly. Tricky? Yes. 
That's what the Notre Dame women's cross country team and 22 others from around the country are up against in this afternoon's National Catholic Invitational. The Irish won the meet last year, and host the meet on the Burke Memorial Golf Course again this year. 
Gaining a good position early is important in any race, but it will be especially important this afternoon. In Notre Dame's last meet two weeks ago, Georgetown showed the irish just how important gaining a good position early and running together as a team actually is, as their top runners got out front early and crossed the fin­ish line first through fifth. 
Meanwhile, the top Irish run­ners were in their own group finishing sixth through eleventh. 
In that race, there were only 32 runners. Multiply that num­ber by about five, and that's how many women will be bat­tling tomorrow. 
"We need to increase the in­tensity and keep the kids to­gether up front a little longer," said Coach Tim Connelly. "We've been stressing team­work all week long. If we run like we can, we could put five girls in the top ten." 
"It all depends which team shows up." 
In the last meet the team that the nation's coaches ranked 14th in the pre-season did not show up, but Coach Connelly is confident that his now-18th ranked Irish will live up to their high expectations tomorrow . 
Special Sandwich for Saturday 
Hot Pastrami 
or try our house favorites the Grinder the Californian RJ's Club 
"We ran the girls really hard the week before the Georgetown meet," said Coach Connelly, "which is what we wanted to do. This time, we've done a better job of backing away from the hard work and getting ready to race." 
Notre Dame will be up against some stiff competition this af­ternoon. Among the 23 schools attending are squads from Boston College, Marquette, DePaul, Detroit, and St. Thomas from Minnesota. 
There will be a varsity race as well as an open race. 
Making the varsity cut for the Irish are seniors Sarah Riley, Kristy Kramer, Emily Husted, and Maureen Kelly; juniors Amy Siegel and Kristen Dudas; and sophomore Emily Hood. 
Coach Connelly believes that this group of runners, which includes an All-American in Riley, should fare very well this afternoon. 
"Realisticly, if we run like we're capable, we can win this meet." 


Friday, September 30, 1994 "'The Observer· SPORTS page 23 

Michigan hopes to rally after stunner 
By CHUCK SCHOFFNER because they've got one of their get back on track with." 100,000 fans in stunned si­the last three of those victories Associated Press own. Seventh-ranked Michigan will lence. against Iowa. The Wolverine" They're trying to bounce back play the Hawkeyes one week The Wolverines' task is to are coming off a decidedly un­IOWA CITY from two straight routs. after having a victory -and erase those haunting images -Michigan-like Big Ten season ­
Like everyone else, the Iowa Hawkeyes are wondering how Michigan will respond to its stunning, last-second loss to Colorado. And they have a vest­ed intere_st because Michigan visits their place on Saturday. 
But coach Hayden Fry and his players can't worry too much about Michigan's problem 
Penn State overwhelmed Iowa 61-21 two weeks ago. Last week, Iowa lost -to Oregon 40­18. 
"This week, we feel like we've got to get back on track," Iowa defensive lineman Parker Wildeman said. "But it's kind of tough having a team like Michigan come in and have them as the team you've got to maybe its hopes of contending for the national championship -snatched away on the final play of its game with Colorado. 
Colorado won 27-26 on Kordell Stewart's miraculous 64-yard touchdown pass to Michael Westbrook, whose tumbling catch in the end zone of a deflected ball left the Wolverines and more than or at least push them aside for a day. 
"No one likes to lose a game like we did, but we still have a lot ahead of us," quarterback Todd Collins said. "We have to focus on Iowa and the rest of the Big Ten season." 
Michigan (2-1) will try to ex­tend a 12-game winning streak in Big Ten Conference openers, a 5-3 record and a tie for fourth place. 
But the last time Michigan went 5-3 in the league -1987 -it won the Big Ten champi­onship the following season and I beat USC in the Rose Bowl. 
•

"I think the character of any 
• 

team gets tested and ours has 1 it," Michigan coach Gary l• Moeller said. 
•I 

ItS not exactly a report card. But it certainly shows who stands at the head of the class. 

As Craig Hallenbeck looks forward to graduating this May, we're happy to give him something the entire business world values: our card. Please _ join us in welcoming our newest member of Ernst & Young. :11 ERNST& YOUNG LLP 
-j 
i l 
: 
j 
-

page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 30, 1994 
• MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
.., Irish hosts for National Catholics 

By KATE CRISHAM Sports Writer 
For the two weeks following Notre Dame's disappointing 16­47 loss to Georgetown, Notre Dame men's cross country coach Joe Piane has been ham­mering one theme into his team's consciousness: team­work, teamwork, teamwork. 
-
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Horseback Riding Trail Ride ­Sunday, October 2 at 11:00, 12:00, 1:00, 2:00, 3:00. No ex­perience necessary and trans­portation will be provided. The bus will leave the Library Circle thirty minutes before each riding time. The fee is $14 per person and you must sign up in advance in the RecSports office. Maximum number per ride is 10 and deadline is 5:00 pm on Thursday, September 29. For info call RecSports at 1-6100. 
Domer Run -Saturday, October 8, 10:00 am at Stepan Center. Three and six mile runs followed by a pancake breakfast. T-shirts to all finishers plus awards to the champions of each division. There will be student and staff divisions. Register in advance at RecSports. $5 fee in advance, $6 day of event. More info, call RecSports. 
Sports Talk -This week with Ron Powlus, live at the main level of LaFortune, Sunday from 7:30-8:30 pm on WVFI 640 AM. Call or come by your with questions or comments. 
Novice Boxing Training­Practice will be held Monday­Friday at 4:00 in Gym 4 of the 
-
JACC. Everyone welcome. For more info call Jeff Goddard at 287-8041. 
Recycle The Observer 
Lack of cohesiveness was a primary reason for the tenth­ranked Irish's loss to the Hoyas. But Piane hopes the team will have learned its lesson by today's National Catholic Cross Country championships, held at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
"Every workout we have re­volves around running as a group," said Piane. "But the proof will be in tomorrow's pudding." 
"I tell the runners that every meet you need to learn some­thing, and hopefully they did learn something from that Georgetown meet," said Piane. "Godwilling, we'll see a more competitive attitude out there on Friday." 
The Irish hope to equal their showing in last year's National Catholics, when they swept the first four places . 

Main & jefferson 
Hours 
Not a Franchise! Mon-Sat 11:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m.A Family Owned Business Sun 4:00-9:00 p.m. 
257-1100 
"This is How Pizza is Supposed to Taste" 
.Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery 
Call 272-2EAT 
$2 off large pizza with Student ID 
According to Piane, Notre Dame's impressive depth will come in handy for tomorrow 's meet. 
"We've got one runner (Joe Dunlop) hurt, and one (J.R. Meloro) sick," said Piane. "Also, because we have meets for the next three weekends, we're not going to run everyone on Friday." 
"It's difficult to run hard three successive weekends, so we're going to try to avoid running people in all three races," he said. 
Piane is confident that his team will respond well to the challenge. 
"If everyone runs hard, I think we have a real strong possibili­ty of winning," he said. "This will force the other runners to step it up a bit, since they won't be able to rely on a Nate Ruder or a John Cowan to win it for them." 
Cowan agreed that an Irish win on Friday is well within reach. 
"Some of these guys, like Mike Smedley and Jeff Hognicki,will have to run faster than they've ever run before," he said. "But it's definitely within their capa­bilities." 
"Our team has a lot of depth, and tomorrow that depth will really help us," he said. 
According to Piane, Notre Dame's primary competition will come from Boston College and Marquette. 
"There's going to be a lot of decent athletes there tomor­row," he said. "Both Marquette and B.C. have some talented runners. It should be a compet­itive race." 
The men's race will begin at 5:00. 
Both Cowan and Piane agreed that the Georgetown fiasco has had positive results. 
"Since the Georgetown meet, I've really seen the team come together," said Cowan. "We've learned our lesson-no one's going to beat us on our home course." 



Sarin, who established the University of Notre 
Dame."-Library Journal 

who can use them to locate and identify for themselves the various trees and shrubs on the Notre Dame campus. 

Published by the University of Notre Dame Press Available at the Hammes-Notre Dame Bookstore. 
~----~ 
Friday, September 30, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll 
Michigan State tackles Wisconsin-in US 

12:15-1:00PM MONDAY-FRIDAY AELDHOUSE MALL MONDAY: AnuricaaubaAt.reCuw TUESDAY: NaJivt Aluricaa Sllldtall aJ Notre Da~~t (HASAND) WEDNESDAY: Llaglll ofUa~tdL2daAiuricaa CitiztJ.S (WLACJ THURSDAY: Ajrica11 AmericaaSlude11t Mliaact F R I DAY: /IIdia aAssocialioa &Asiaa AmericaaAssocialioa 
~RESIDE CHATS 'Healing Our World: It's aFamily Affair' ·Various speakers presem treir perspectives 
12:15-1:00 PM MONDAY-FRIDAY NO ROOM LAFORTUNE MONDAY: Doal.lcNtiU,C.S.C.,KadeGlyu,lsaacDilacaa FREE LUNCH PROVIDED TUESDAY: JodliUtr WEDNESDAY: MllllraRya~ THURSDAY: BarbaraMan-Hilbbard FRIDAY: Ja~tt KonaAy &Jim Swba 
,NTERTAINMENT ON THE QUAD Multicultural entertainment 
4:30-6:00 PM MONDAY-FRIDAY AELDHOUSE MALL MONDAY: GeorgtaltdzhlFrub TUESDAY: l/awaiia11 C!Jib &Phill~iu C!Jib WEDNESDAY: BaUezFolliorico THURSDAY: TroopND FRIDAY: NaJivt Anurica11 Szude11ts aJ Notrt Dalll (NASAND) 
~PECIAL EVENTS 
7:00 PM LAFORTUNE BALLROOM TUESDAY: BharaJa NaJJam (llldiall) Dam Trolll't THURSDAY: BarbaraMan-1/llbbard 
~ASTE OF NATIONS Ataste of international food, entertainnxnt and fun 
8:00 PM -12:00 AM FRIDAY STEPAN CENTER COST $1.00 
SPONSORED BY THE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 
And that's just the running game. Darrell Bevell completed his first 13 passes against Indiana, and the Badgers scored on their first six posses­sions against the Hoosiers. 
"They earned them all too," Michigan State coach George Perles said. "They didn't have what you'd call cheap touch­downs. They were pounding that ball pretty good." 
• SMC TENNIS 
Belles drop match at St. Joseph 
By TARA KRULL 
Sports Writer 
Although the Saint Mary's  
tennis team was defeated yes­ 
terday (7-2) by Division II Saint  
Joseph's College, they are  
maintaining a bright outlook  
for their future. According to  
coach Katie Cromer, Saint  
Joseph's was anticipated to be  
a challenge for the now 1-1  
Belles.  
"Saint Joseph's has the repu­ 
tation of being a very strong  
team," Cromer said. "Both  
their number one singles and  
doubles teams played at na­ 
tionals last spring. They are re­ 
·turning key players this year as  
well."  
The Saint Mary's number two  
doubles pair of sophomore Jen  
Kelley and Kate Kozacik pro­ 
duced one of the two wins over  
Saint Joseph's. The other vic­ 
tory was posted by Kelley at  
number three singles.  
"There were many close  
matches," Hrycko said. "We  
had a few of our matches go all  
the way to three sets. Everyone  
played fairly well."  
The Belles defeated Division I  
Valparaiso University last week  
in their first game of the newly  
added fall season. Cromer  
noted that the fall season can  
only do good for the team be­ 
cause it will help prepare them  
for their longer, regular season  
in the spring.  
"The win against Valparaiso  - 
was a great start for us,"  
Cromer added. "Even though  
we were defeated by Saint  
Joseph's, we are beginning to  
make a name for ourselves for  
spring. It is important to even  
have the chance to play a  
ranked team at the caliber of  
Saint Joseph's.  
The Belles have already  
established a strong line-up,  
according to senior Nancy  
Waibel.  
"Our number one singles and  
doubles players and our num­ 
ber two singles player are all  
returning varsity players,"  
Waibel said. "We only gradu~  
ated two seniors last spring."  
Sophomore Kate Kozacik is  
playing at the number one sin­ 
gles position for the Belles, and  
senior Andrea Ayres is at the  
number two spot.  
Waibel added that it is impor­ ·­ 
tant for the Belles to do the  
best they can this fall because  
the matches count towards  
their spring season.  
"We just need to play at our  
best and establish what we can  
for ourselves during this sea­ 
son," she said.  

, By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING 
The last time Michigan State met Wisconsin, the teams were halfway around the world. Much has changed for the Spartans since then. But the Badgers are still awesome. 
Wisconsin clinched its first Big Ten championship in 31 years with a 41-20 win over Michigan State in the Coca-Cola Bowl in Tokyo. The architects of that victory are all back, and will be on display Saturday in Spartan Stadium. 
The No. 15 Badgers (2-1 over­all, 1-0 Big Ten) are favored by a touchdown over the Spartans (1-2), who will be playing their first conference game. It also will be Homecoming for Michigan State. 
Brent Moss and Terrell Fletcher, maybe the best run­ning tandem in the country, each scored two touchdowns and rushed for more than 100 yards for Wisconsin in that game in Japan. The Badgers went on to win the Rose Bowl game. 
Nothing much has changed. 
Moss has rushed for 100 yards in a school-record 14 straight games. He's averaging 119 yards per game this sea­son, including 118 yards on 21 carries against Colorado. 
Fletcher i~ averaging 9.1 yards per carry. He ran for 146 yards on only 10 attempts last week in Wisconsin's 62-13 rout of Indiana. 


-~-~o\-l· • a1P -.~nn-,...,1,1·.,:· ,,c-~;,-;.; 
Friday, September 30, 1994 

---------..........---. 
-;~~ -~~•lc~) ...... t•r 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Carroll, Fisher look for first win of season 
ByB.J. HOOD 
Sporn Writer 
Zahm and Alumni will clash Sunday at 3 pm. Fourth­ranked Alumni looked good last Sunday in a 16-0 victory over Sorin. 
Zahm is ranked sixth after a scoreless-tie with Carrol. Freshman quarterback Benji Hammond started his first game on Sunday and looked good but still feels his team has a lot to show. 
"We've got a lot to prove," Hammond said. 
The Zahm defense played well last Sunday, led by defen­sive backs Dave Bozanic and Mike Wigton. 
"Our timing on offense was a little off," Wigton said, "but we're working hard to correct that." 
SORIN vs St. ED's 
Sorin plays St. Ed's on Sunday at 1:00, and it should be interesting because St. Ed's manhandled Sorin last year. The Otters hope to avoid a re­peat of last Sunday's 16-0 whitewash at the hands of Alumni. 
Captain Pete Slease attributed the loss to poor execution on offense and hopes for improved 
-
. -, ~--..----~---~-~-~----------~--.,_..~---­
No.4 Alumni faces winless Zahm 
execution and continued strong defense. 
With the addition of many Cavanaugh players, St. Ed's is a much different team this year. 
They lost a tough one to Fisber 6-2 despite the stellar running of Mike Norbut and a defense that sti~d Fisher's running and passing attack. 
"We're trying to make the of­fense more efficient," said wide receiver/cornerback Kevin Mitchell. 
"We're going to pass more and work on the kicking game. Our defense played well, and if we hadn't made a few mis­takes, we would have won the game." 
CARROLL vs FISHER 
Sunday at 2:00, the battle for the "traveling crooked stick" will take place, the trophy given to the winner of the Carroll­Fisher. 
Carroll tied Zahm 0-0 last week a testament to its defense but saying leagues about the Zahm offensive attack. 
"Our offense didn't execute like we wanted it to. We hope to execute better on Sunday," Captain Scott Ismail said. 
Fisher beat St. Ed's 6-2. Fisher, led by linebacker Dave Sullivan, played sound defen­sively. 
Wide receivers Mike Carroll and Dan McGinty both made big catches for Fisher, and cap­tain fullback Chris Lary scored 
,..,. page 26 
• POWER Pou. 1. Stanford 1-0 
2. Fisher 1-0 3. Off-Campus 1-0 
4. Alumni  1-0  
5. Keenan  1-0  
'6. Zahm  0-1-0  
7. Morrissey  0-1  
8. St. Ed's  0-1  
9. Carroll  0-1-0  
10. Dillon  0-1  
11. Sorin  0-1  
12. Planner  0-1  
13. Grace  0-0  


The Observer/Sean Farnan 
A Green Wave player dives on a fumble in men's interhall action. 
the game's only touchdown. and hopefully Sunday our of­
"We were disappointed in the fense will come together," Lary play of our offense. We've been said. "The crooked stick makes working hard on our offense, this a big rivalry for us." 
Hours: Friday, 12:00-9:00 pm Saturday, 8:00 am-9:00 pm Sundayi V:OO am-3:00 pm 
VISA, MASTERCARD, awl DISCOVER ACCEPIEDI 
braz1er® "A fun place to be on St. Rd. 23!" St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood Near Martin's Double Burgers :99¢. NO"" HIRING rs-O"¢ <;)FF1 rcTilckeilSaipdaslet1 f)O"¢ OFF1 I ~ny Size II 299II II Bhzzard or II II Grilled Chicken 1Breeze Sandwich I 12,16,orllo..ll . .II . . .~ I Not valid with any other offer. I I Not valid with any other offer. II Not valod with any other offer. I Limit 2. Good at St Rd. 23 Only. .J L Limit 2. Good at St Rd. 23 Only. .J L Limit 2. Good at St Rd. 23 Only. .JL ------­------­------­ 

DOOLITTLE'S PUB 291--6544 Home of the DooLittles Amazing Sub & 1/2 lb Pub Burger Serving Food 11 a.m...Midnight daily! Join the Around the World Import Club 4407 S. Ironwood  
~OURS: Mon..Sat lla.m...)a.m. Sun 12 .. 12  Every Sunday Night "Rock Sunday" 301 Dart Tournament $5 entry, 100% pay back  
FAMOUS Since 1977 15 Years of Service Award DINE IN, CARRY OUT, OR DELIVERY SZE-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AMERICAN DISHES "Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" •Private Dining Booths •Fresh Ingredients •No Mass Production •Healthy Family StYle Dining •Vegetarian Menu For Reservations & Carry Out Call: 272-6702 For Delivery Call 272-2-EAT 6329 University Commons (Across from University Pari< Mall) South Bend, IN 46635 Froay It ~~~-tO PllVISA Saltlday 4PII-tO Pll  

..... 

Off-Campus faces Keena)) in battle of unbeatens .. 
By NEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 
In a battle of two undefeated clubs, No. 3 Off-Campus takes on No. 5 Keenan, with a posi­tion near the top of Interhall hanging in the balance. 
"I'm hoping we'll be ready," says Keenan captain Rob Rolf. "It's all how bad we want to beat them. That's what it real­ly comes down to." 
He points to intensity and physical conditioning as the key to the game. The team that has the most energy left in the fourth quarter should prevail. 
Keenan's performance will 
hinge strongly on the perfor­mance of tailback Ben Mitchell and quarterback Matt Rechner. On the defensive side of the ball, they'll rely on linebacker Matt Bauer. 
"Barring any mental mistakes, I think we'll be able to beat them," Rolf said. 
That's something Off-Campus doesn't want to see happen. However, their highly hyped team disappointed some by 'only' beating defending Stadium Champ Morrissey 7-0 last Sunday. 
"I think the guys were just a little nervous for the first game." says captain Dave 
STOP MILKING THE SYSTEM!!! 
A discussion on the
The Au· u:. • 

of the Department"'bf Economics 
Keenan Hall Kommans at 7:30pm on Monday, October 3, 1994 
Refreshments will be served 411J 
Deltore. 
Deltore feels there's no ques­tion Off-Campus is the most tal­ented team. However, he's not concerned about being ranked behind Stanford and Fischer. "It's doesn't bother us. Only the end of the year counts." 
And Keenan is all that matters to Off-Campus this Sunday. Although Deltore expects Keenan to move the ball, the defense should be able to keep Keenan's point total down. 
On offense, Deltore sees Keenan taking it at them with tailback Mike Thompson, who scored the lone touchdown against Morrissey.and Chris Monahan, brother of talented varsity player Mark Monahan. 
"I think we have a good chance to win," Chris Monahan said. "I talked to my brother and he gave me some pointers and I think I am a better player now. He's the best." 
MORRISSEY vs STANFORD 
In a rematch of last year's Stadium game, No. 1 Stanford 
COLORADO 
...... 
LL FREE INFORMAnON AND RESERVA110NS 
1•800•SUNCHASE 
NOBODY DOli'S SKI BREfiKS B TTEIJ!. 

Give us an hour of your football weekend and we'll give you a lifetime of life changing ideas! 
Join Us For A One Hour Learning Experience at The Center for the Homeless Football Friday afternoons leaving the Main Circle at 4:00p.m. Returning by 5:30p.m. 
Limited Transportation Available 
The trip will provide information and program ideas to implement in your local community or through your Notre Dame Alumni Club. A quick tour and presentation will also be included. 
You don't need to be a member of a club, or be in a club leadership role. You do need to share the Notre Dame Alumni Community Service Programs goal of fostering positive change in society through alumni involvement. 
Please Join Us In This Learning Opportunity! 
and No. 7 Morrissey square off in a game with critical implica­tions for both. "We're anxious to get back on the field against Morrissey." said Studs captain Chad Smock. "We have a little bit of revenge on our minds." Revenge for Morrissey's 9-7 victory in last year's championship game. 
"The key to winning is if we can have a good time of posses­sion, control the ground game, and make sure they don't have the ball." 
The man carrying the ball will be Player of the Week Chris Pollina, who rushed for two scores last weekend. 
On defense, Stud linebackers Smock, Brett Galley, and Ted Caseiri will play pivotal roles. 
The Manor is looking to get off the canvas after a 7-0 defeat at the hands of Off-Campus. 
"It's crucial that we do. If we don't win against Stanford, it's tough to come back and win two to make the playoffs," said captain Aveliiro Verceles. 
Morrissey's biggest key will be fundamentals. Last week the Manor suffered from a dropped touchdown pass, mix-ups in coverages, and missed tackles. 
"They have a very strong run­ning back (Pollina) that knows how to break tackles. If we don't learn how to tackle quick, we'll be in big trouble." 
On offense the Manor will give the ball to tailback Jon Goetz over twenty times. 
"We're going to try to give him the ball more. Give the ball to one guy over and over again, and he's bound to b_reak one," Verceles said. 
GRACEvsFLANNER 

Flanner is trying to recover from a 21-0 walloping from Stanford. Grace is just trying to get a game. On Sunday, one team will walk off the field in the playoff hunt, while the other is facing odds as long as a third Nixon term. 
''I'd say we're going to bounce back okay," Flanner captain Too Keller said. "It took us a few hours to realize what hap­pened and put it behind us. I expect a lot better on Sunday. We didn't help ourselves with four turnovers." 
Flanner turnovers resulted in 14 of Stanford's 21 points. 
"We've really gone back to fundamental stuff this week, working on tackling and block­ing, and things we didn't exe­cute on Sunday. 
Grace did not even play a game last weekend. 
"The team we're already play­ing already has an advantage" Captain Pat Cooke said . 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE 
BE AFILMMAKER AT NOTRE DAME !!! 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN DIRECTING, ACTING, OR BEING PART OF ASTUDENT FILM PRODUCTION CREWJ.COME TO: THE LOFT IN O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL (2ND FLOOR, EAST WING) MONDAY AT 8:00PM FOR FOOD, FILM, AND FUN, FUN, FUN... 
·­


For more information, contact: Ed Trifone --631-6181 Director, Alumni Community Service 
\ltc ... 
StudetUAlumniRllAntiN.'iGIUitrl' 
The Center for the Homeless, Inc. ... 


page 28 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 30, 1994 
Congratulations To These Notre Dame Grads... and Future Attorneys
11on!(ratulationH to the following ~otrc Dame gr.WuatcH wh:• have choHen to begin theirlJlegal careers at the Umvers1ty of Dayton Hchool of Law, Fall HJ94 Entermg Class: 
TIMOTHY SCOTT CALLAHAN, B.A., History, 1994 
SCOTT J. DRESSMAN, B.A., International Relations, 1993 jONATHAN A. FLIGG, B.A., Government Services, 1993 
SEAN H. HARMON, B.A., English, 1992 
DAVID M. McNAMEE, B.A., LiberalArts, 1994 PAUL R. SCHAEFFER, B.S.E.E., Electrical Engineering, 1992 
These first-year law students joinl76 classmates drawn from a 24-state region, representing 107 different undergraduate colleges and universities. They successfully competed with 1,850 individuals for admission to the Hl94 Entering Class. 
If you are interested in the study of law and have a demonstrated record of achievement, we invite you to consider the University of Dayton School of Law. Applications for admission may be obtained by contactin~ the University of Dayton School of Law Office of Admission at (513) 229-3555. 
•THE UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON SCHOOL OF LAW• 

Don't forget about Duke 
If it will ever be a challenge for women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli to motivate his team for a game against the No. 6 team in the country, it will be tonight when the No. 3 Irish and the Blue Devils open play in the Collegiate Challenge Cup in St. Louis. 
"Duke is a hell of a team, as good as we are," 
Junior goalie
said Petrucelli, "but every 
Melissa Carr 
question I've heard is Carolina, Carolina, Carolina. Yes, I'm worried about looking past Duke." 

But Petrucelli himself seems very focused on win­ning the Duke game first. Any question directed toward the North Carolina game is redirected in refer­ence to both contests. 
"The two games-both of them-are very good for our program," he said. "Duke is a very similar univer­sity to Notre Dame and many of our recruits are also interested in them." 
One Irish player who considered committing to Duke is junior Michelle McCarthy. 
"Duke did recruit me," said McCarthy, "but my father went to Notre Dame and I had been visiting campus here before, and I just knew I wanted to come here." 
One Duke player who Petrucelli could not bring to Notre Dame is All-American Kelly Walbert. Now a forward for the Blue Devils, Walbert leads the Blue Devils with 19 points in eight games this season. 
Including Walbert, Duke returns all eleven starters from last year's NCAA tournament-qualifying team. But if no one else is convinced the Irish will not look past the Blue Devils, Petrucelli is. "We'll be ready and we'll be excited. I feel good about our team and our chance to win." -RIANAKEY 
UNC 
continued from page 32 
she won't be thinking about your Sunday dinner, either. 
That's because about the time when her family would be sitting down at the dining room table, McCarthy and her teammates will be playing what has the possibility of being the biggest game in Irish soccer history. 
In the (biggest game) of the Challenge Cup, No. 3 Notre Dame will attempt to beat No. 1 North Carolina, something only one team has been able to do since 1985. 
The Tar heels carry a 91-game winning streak into the tour­nament, the longest current streak in the any sport college or profes­sional. North Carolina was last beaten by Connecticut in 1990. 
"It will be nice to play at home," said McCarthy, "but I'm more excited about playing against Duke and North Carolina." 
McCarthy's mention of the Duke game is indicative of the caution of a Notre Dame team which may have been too excited about last year's meeting with North Carolina. 
"Last year we had never played them before and we were very awed by them," said sophomore · Cindy Daws. "This time we won't be overwhelmed because we're on the same field with them." 
"I think we're more prepared," said McCarthy. "We know what it's like to play against them." 
Head coach Chris Petrucelli agreed that both he and his squad are better-prepared for the rematch. 
"Last year I really questioned whether we could play at that level," said Petrucelli. "I was very 
nervous for the whole week before 
the game." 

"I may have been a little con­cerned last year about how our players would handle it if we won, but I have no concern this season. We're more mature." 
Petrucelli also believes the Irish have a more potent offense, but is .concerned about whether the squad can respond to the injuries of three key players, including the recent loss of top defender Ashley Scharff. 
"We're more experienced than we were last year and more dan­gerous up front, but there's a question about if we'll be solid in the back since two of our three original starters are out." 
With positions to fill, Petrucelli will look to players like senior Irish co-captains Tiffany Thompson and Jill Matesic. 
"Any time you get in a difficult situation-and this is a difficult situation-you look to your se­niors," said Petrucelli. "This may be their last chance to win some games like this." 
Against the North Carolina Thompson will mark Debbie Keller, the Tar heels' leading scor­.er. The role is an important one 
for Thompson. 

"If we're going to win, Tiffany 
will need to shut her down," said 
Petrucelli. 

And while Petrucelli and the Irish 
are concerned about keeping up 
with the Tar heel machine, North 
Carolina coach Anson Dorrance 
has great respect for Notre Dame. 
"We don't have any illusions of 
grandeur," said Dorrance. "We're 
very excited about playing a team 
as good as Notre Dame. Cindy 
Daws is one of the best college 
players in the country." 

And Dorrance knows good play-­
ers. His current roster includes five players who have received All­America honors, led by senior midfielder Tisha Venturini. Venturini could become just the second player in history to earn first-team All-America accolades in each of her four collegiate sea­sons. 
Even with all the talent his team has, Dorrance recognizes the fragility of the Tar heel win streak. 
"We're just as shocked as ev­eryone else is about the streak," said Dorrance. "There's been a lot of luck in­volved in it as well, and we're always aware that we can be beat­en." 
But luck alone hasn't built a 298­8-9 record for Dorrance and his North Carolina teams. Dorrance is recognized as one of the pre­mier soccer coaches in the world, and until recently was the head coach of the women's U.S. nation­al team. 
Dorrance's coaching ability may pose an even greater threat to the Irish due to a schedule change in the tournament. Originally, Notre Dame was scheduled to face North Carolina on Friday. The game was only recently switched to Sunday. 
"There's a big difference with the schedule change from a coaching standpoint," said Dorrance. "Now we get to see Notre Dame play on Friday night." 
McCarthy also notes a concern with the schedule change. 
''I'm hoping that it's not a dis­advantage," she said. "We've been playing well on Friday nights and coming out a little bit flat on Sunday." 
And against a team like Carolina, her concerns are obviously gen­uine. She's not just worried about being late for dinner. 

Friday, September 30, 1994 
Recruits 
continued from page 32 
Right, coach. 
Even if the Irish climb or fall only a spot or two in the na­tional rankings; even if Notre Dame still receives a bid and a high seed to the NCAA tourna­ment; even if the psychological impact of the results of these games do not affect the play of this particular squad for the rest of the season, the games may have an impact well into the next four soccer seasons. 
If any high school All­American in the country is wa­vering between playing for the Tar heels or the Irish, between becoming a Dukie or a Domer, then this weekend's results will be considered. 
"They are both recruiting games," said Petrucelli. "Both of them." 
Petrucelli, who is concerned that his squad may be caught looking past Duke to the North Carolina game, emphasizes the importance of both games. And while Duke and Notre Dame may attract similar student-ath­letes, a win over North Carolina would reap a much bigger bounty for the Irish. 
Notre Dame, which estab­lished itself as one of the pre­mier programs in the country just last year, has proved it can compete with Duke, or any other team in the country-ex­cept North Carolina. 
Currently, any recruit who may think winning an NCAA championship is important would certainly lean toward the Tar heels, considering they've won the last eight titles and eleven of twelve since women's soccer was recognized by the organization. 
Another loss to the Tar heels may indicate to recruits that the Irish are still a step away from seriously contending for the national title. A win, how­ever, or even a tie, would legit­imize the belief held by Notre Dame coaches and players­that the team is indeed in posi­tion to make a title run. 
"If we win," said Petrucelli, "we'll certainly tell our recruits about it. And if we lose, we'll try to downplay it." 
Ironically, the battle on the field for future recruits will be fought by players Petrucelli has already managed to wrestle away from North Carolina. 
"Recruiting wise, we've had players commit to us who were being recruited by Carolina," said Petrucelli. "We've won as many as we've lost." 
The biggest recruit Petrucelli may have landed is sophomore All-American Cindy Daws, who took recruiting trips to both South Bend and Chapel Hill. After consideration, Daws chose Notre Dame for a combi­nation of reasons. 
"At North Carolina they've won however many national championships," said Daws, "and the coach there said I probably wouldn't start there until I was a sophomore. I wanted to go somewhere where I felt I would make a differ­ence." 
Daws was spectacular in her 
freshman season for the Irish, 
earning national freshman-of­
the-year and first-team All­
America honors. 
Dorrance admits that Daws, as 
well as Irish teammates Kate 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Sobrero and Stacia Masters who he also recruited, would start for the Tar heels right now. 
"They obviously can attract top players to their program," said Dorrance. 
Masters also made recruiting trips to both schools, but ques­tioned the ultra-commitment to soccer at North Carolina. 
"At Carolina it was more soc­cer-oriented," said Masters. "It's soccer, then school. Here, school seemed to be more im­portant." 
And though she may be start­ing for the Tar heels, Masters has found a role she's comfort­able with for the Irish-as the first player off the bench. 
"It would be nice to start, too," said Masters, "but coming off the bench is a different kind of spark." 
While Petrucelli has been able to lure several pl.ayers away from the most successful col­lege athletic program in his­tory, he still laments the loss of many top recruits. 
"Do you have an hour," Petrucelli quips when asked to name players he has seen com­mit to the Tar heels over the Irish. Then he lists most of the North Carolina starting line-up. 
And while even Dorrance ac­
knowledges Petrucelli's success 
at attracting top players, this 
part of his job can only get eas­
ier with a win over the week­
end. 
And when the recruiting as­
pect is considered, Petrucelli 
eases up a bit on his downplay 
of the game. 
"The two games-both of 
them-are very big for our pro­
gram." 
But just a little bit. 
page 29 

Notre Dame coach Chris Petrucelli gives his three matchups to watch as the Irish face the Tar Heels. 
Cindy Daws vs Tisha Venturini 
"Probably the two top mid­fielders in the country going against each other." 
Holly Manthei vs Danielle Egan 
''Two dangerous attacking players having to defend each other." 
Tiffany Thompson vs Debbie Keller 
"She's their leading scorer and if we're going to win she'll need to be shut down." 

And possibly the top matchup ... 

Chris Petrucelli vs Anson Dorrance 


Dorrance is a legend and the best coach in the country. Petrucelli is the streaking newcomer. Dorrance won't make a mistake and Petrucelli will have to take the right gambles. 

Rudy Ruettiger 
will appear at the 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Fridav, Sept. 30th 4 -6 
Saturday, Oct. 1st 9:30-11:30 
1:00-4:00 p.m. 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
"On the campus" 
Open 9:00 a.m. -7:00 p.m. on Fri. &sat. 
• ~ 
,. 
.­
-· 
..... 
... W» 

·­
r(' . ' _, $ .,\. .;·, ,--.~ 1 r. r ,. o I I I I' 4. .. 
• VOLlEYBAll 
Irish, Cardinals in rematch 
Setter Tuttle key to Irish success 
By BETSY BAKER Sports W ricer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team is back in action as they host the Louisville Cardinals at 
7:30 p.m. on Saturday night. The Cardinals will be out for revenge against the 11th­ranked Irish, who were victori­ous in their first confrontation earlier in the season on Louisville's home ground. 
The Irish now stand at 14-1, with their one loss coming in their first rematch of the sea­son against Michigan State. The Cardinals will be looking to repeat the success the Spartans had in their second meeting with the Irish, but Notre Dame has had two weeks of practice and is ready to get back on the court. 
After winning the Golden Dome Invitational last weekend with victories over Loyola Marymount and Rice, the Irish have been practicing all week in preparation for the match against Louisville. 
The Irish past success against the Cardinals definitely works in their favor. They stand at 8­1 in the series with Louisville, including the victory over the Cardinals earlier this season. 
Although the Irish defeated the Cardinals in four games on September 9 at the Big Four Classic in Louisville, they are looking for another strong per­formance from Louisville. 
The Cardinals are led by senior middle blocker Tina Naehr, senior Dee Singleton, and sophomore Beth Kuhnell, who all hit for double figures in kills in the first meeting with the Irish. Singleton had a career-high 24 kills against the Irish. 
The Irish performance has been near flawless this season, as shown by their excellent record and ranking. They will look to continue their two-sea­son, 17 -game winning streak at home. 
The Irish have been led by All-American senior outside hitter Christy Peters who has been named MVP of the last four tournaments in which the Irish have taken part. 
She has been an all-tourna­ment selection in the last 10 tournaments of the Irish, and has been named Midwestern Collegiate Conference Player of the Week five times in the last two years, twice already this season. 
Another major key to the Irish success has been the play of junior setter Shannon Tuttle. Tuttle has 575 assists for the Irish on the season, adding to 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, 1993 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
For Carry Out or Reservations 
(219)272-7376 
130 Dixie Highway South (on U.S. 31 next to Randall's Inn) 
her career total of 927 assists, which places her at fifth among Notre Dame's career assist leaders. 
Irish Head Coach Debbie Brown recognizes Tuttle's con­tribution to the team. 
"Shannon doesn't get the recognition that the hitters get because she is a setter," said Brown. "But she is a big rea­son that the team is 14-1." 
The most important compo­nent of Irish success is their depth. The Irish as a team has outhit, outset, and outserved each and every one of their op­ponents this season. Their only' loss was due to their own errors. 
They lead the MCC in wins, and they place many in­dividuals on top of the confer­ence leader lists. Their na­tional ranking keeps moving up every week and will not stop until they reach the coveted number one position. 

The Observer/Jake Peters 

Setter Shannon Tuttle has led the Irish to a 14-1 record this season. 
CATCH THE SPIRIT! 
"The true spirit ofNotre Dame is captured in the commitment to faith and humanity... " 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. Catch the sptnt of the 1995 President, University ofNotre Dame Datebook, "The Spirit of Notre Dame." This high quality 7,1/4 x 9,1/2 inch weekly planner captures the physical beauty of Notre Dame's campus through 52 black and white photographs. Each week, the Datebook's scenic pictures will bring Notre Dame, its memories, and unique spirit home to you! The Datebook also conveys the growth of another spirit: the spirit of serving others. The Datebook is spon, sored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association to benefit La Casa de Amistad, Inc., a Hispanic non,profit community center on the City of South Bend's West Side. By purchasing a Datebook, you, too can be a part of the spirit of La Casa de Amistad, Inc. that is working to build youth programming in order to give boys 
Notre Dame Alumni Association

and girls a healthier, brighter future. Available now Campus--wide for $10. Students can receive a $5 discount with a valid student I.D. 


SUBWAY six-FEET. IRISH de-FEAT. 

Before watching the Irish play Stanford Saturday, call SUBWAY today for a six-foot party sub for as low as $37.95. 
17:30 SATURDAY NIGHT! I 
11th-ranked 
NOTRE DAME 
vs. 

LOUISVILLE 
VOLLEYBALL JACC Main Arena ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 



.a ana 2 a 
-

-
Friday, September 30, 1994 
The Observer • TODAY page 31 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



BILL WATTERSON 
Dt>.D SAID ON£ 1'1 IN i\.1£ 
\-10\.JS'C. Wf'.S Br>-D mo~J;;\.\, A.t--10 1-\t: PRE.ftRRE.D -mE. 01-lE \'1 11\-\ 1\-l't. '10\.\.JI-\t. CJN~. 
\ 
ft/l-, 
~~ ---'"::::: 

SCOTT ADAMS 
OR I FOR '<OIJR CONVEN­IENCE I I 1-\fWE 1'\ADE. 

DILBERT 
TI-\IS ITU\ WILL REQUIRE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 23 Kingdom east of Fiji
1 Come clean, 24 Air freshener with "up" option5 Attitudinize 25 Edwin Drood's 9 Matthew, betrothedoriginally 27 1991 flick "Bill & 13 Lung opening? 
-Bogus 14 "-Speaks!" Journey"(1961 
29 Suffix with exist autobiography) 
or insist 15 Well briefed 
30 Highabout 
muck-a-mucks 16 Disarmament 
32 Frequent figure treaty concerns 
in Renaissance 19 Douglas, e.g. paintings 
20 Coeur d'---, 
35 Shoreline drive 
Idaho 37Wipeout21 Draw out 39 Turning points 22 The difference 43 "Welcome" item 
between Jan and Joan? 44 Apple-pie pros 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
'=+=+::-+.::-i 
..::....L.::;;...L:.J.:-'-' 


llill'l~ S()!IIrt'IIIN() 'I'() SilY ? 
IJSI~ ()JISI~Ill'l~ll (~J.JlSSII~II~I)S 
-
-
.. 
1 1 1 i 
•
' 

'{OU ON THREE WEEKS , THEN SNEAK lT BACK TO MY CU5ICLE WITI-\ AN ILLEGIBLE QUESTION 

SCRAWLED 
IN T\1E 
1"\ARGIN. 
_) 
q-n 
45 Hard to believe 46 Chipped in 49 Mogul mogul 52 Swell place? 53 Shooter's 
request 54 Connacht 
county 55 Certainly may 56 Cura9ao, e.g. 59 Classical 
theaters 60Stop-­61 Shaving cream 
additive 62 Joanne Dru's 
"Red River" role 63 Fwys. 64 Mystery writer 
John Dickson 
DOWN 
1 Hoopla 2 September 
event 3 Sweetener 4 1905 song girl 5 Minor need, at 
times? 6 Toast topping 1 Leave the nest a Sister of Selene 9 Montreal 
Monday 10 Shoulder piece 11 Spitfire, so to 
speak 12 Creepy-crawly 
14 Overhead projection? 11 Dig in 1alt's shocking! 26 Experts 28 Mrs., abroad 31 Serpent's sound 33 Author LeShan 34 Copy 36 Robin's co-star in 70's TV 37 Artificial 
38 Get-ups 40Where "Turandot" premiered 41 Wife of England's 
Henry II 42Calumny 43 Billiken 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
47 Literature Nobelist Canetti 48 Party girl 50 Exchange premium 51 Derek and others 57 Except for 58 Varnish ingredient 


SPORTS 
page 32 Friday, September 30, 1994 

Notre Dame eyes North Carolina and 
its 91-game streak ByRIANAKEY 
Associate Spons Editor 
When the Irish women's soccer team squares off against No. 6 Duke tonight in the Collegiate Challenge Cup in St. Louis, Notre Dame junior Michelle McCarthy will be playing in her home­town for the first time in her college career. She'll be playing in front of her parents, her friends, and her ex-team­mates. 
But she won't be thinking about her homecoming. 
If McCarthy's mind slips away from the game against the Blue Devils-even for an instant-it is likely to be centered on what will take place Sunday after­
And, sorry Mrs. McCarthy, but 
Recruiting battle may also be settled on the field 
Associate Sports Editor 
"We have nothing to lose and not much to gain." 
Notre Dame women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli has tried very hard to downplay the squad's games in this weekend's Collegiate Challenge Cup. 
"Certainly they're the kind of games you want to win, but losing these games will not affect our ranking much and won't keep us out of the NCAA tourna­ment." 
He tries to tell you that games, Friday against No. 6 Duke and Sunday against No. 1 North Carolina, will be good clean fun. 
"The games are really irrelevant." 





-
..;.;._ 
-
!, 
,r 
•
r 
~ 
~ 
The Collegiate G Challenge Cup D 
D 
Who: No. 1 North Carolina D No. 3 Notre Dame 
M M
No.6 Duke 
M 
When: Friday, Sept .30, M Sunday, Oct. 2 F Where: St Louis, MO. F 
F 
LACROSSE EXHIBITION 
The Irish lacrosse team plays the Philly All-Stars tonight at 7:30 on Moose Krause Field. 
Shelley Finger Keri Sanchez Roz Santana Dawn Crow 
Tisha Venturini 
Danielle Egan Angela Kelly Nel Fettig Debbie Keller Aubrey Falk Missy Boyle G Jen Renola D Jill Matesic D Kate Sobrero D Kate Fisher M Jodi Hartwig M Tiffany Thompson M Michelle McCarthy M Cindy Daws F Rosella Guerrero F Amy Van Laecke F Julie Maund 
G  Melissa Carr  
D  Deanna Kreidel  
D  Gretch. Anderson  
D  Mandy Lehr  
M  Missy Durham  
M  Cara Lyons  
M  Katherine Remy  
M  Kristyn Woodside  
F  Heidi Durham  
F  Meegan McMullin  
F  Kelly Walbert  
of note...  

Check SPORTS EXTRA for all the info on Saturday's Notre Dame/Stanford matchup. 






