1 
•
I 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
The Observer/Jake Peters David Link, the Joseph A. Matson Dean of The Notre Dame Law School, is in his ninteenth year at that post. 

12:10 p.m.3:00p.m.4:00p.m.4:30p.m.4:45p.m.5:00p.m.6:45p.m.7:00p.m.7:30p.m.
11:00 p.m. 
9:00a.m. 9:30a.m. 9:40a.m. 9:50a.m. 10:00a.m. 
11:00 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 
12:10 p.m.12:35p.m.30 minutes post game 
6:00,7:00, 
8:00,9:30, 
& 11:00 a.m. 
8:00, 10:00, 
& 11:45a.m. 
10:00 a.m. &5:00p.m.7:15p.m. 
L_ 
Friday, October 14, 1114 
Mass The Crypt Social Gathering Morris Inn Patio Center for Homeless Immersion Meet In Main Circle Marching Band Rehearsal Main Building Glee Club Open Rehearsal Crowley Hall Men's & Women's Swim Meet Rolf's Aquatic Center Band Steps Off for Pep Rally Band Building Pep Rally (open to public) JACC (gate 10) Men's Soccer: NO vs. SMU Alumni Field Midnight Mania JACC (gate 10) 
Satarllay, October 15, 1114 
Lecture: ·AIDS: Past, present Cushing Auditorium 
and Future' Alumni Hospitality Center JACC (Gates 2&3) MMeeting esc Pam Pan Squad Performance JACC North Dome Cheerleading Preformance JACC North Dome Glee Club and Shenanigans JACC North Dome Marching Band Main Building Mass The Crypt Marching Band Pre-game Notre Dame Stadium FOOTBALL GAME Notre Dame Stadium Mass The Crypt 
Saallay, October 11, 1114 
Mass The Crypt 
Mass The Basilica 
Mass 
The Observer/Christopher Mullios 
The ObServer/Jake Peters Students take advantage of the Law School's courtroom. The Law School admits on average thirty Notre Dame graduates a year to its program. 
Faith in the law 
' 
~ 
i I 
j ~ 1 
1 
-
J 
' 
low, the Notre Dame law school is out to restore what is often
As it turns 125, law 
the missing ingredient in a complete education-ethics. 
school puts ethics 
"If we cannot restore faith in the legal profession, we willback at forefront have a most difficult time main­taining the rule of law," said By SARAH DORAN David Link, Dean of the Law News Editor School. "What is needed is a re­turn to a legal profession that As it begins its 125th year at can be trusted, and it is appro­a time when public faith in the priate for us as a religious insti­legal profession is at an all time tution to be drawn to ethical is-
Endowment campaign launched 
By MYRNA MALONEY 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
A Sesquicentennial Campaign endowment goal of $30 million was announced last night by Sister Rachel Callahan, chair of the Saint Mary's College Board of Trustees. 
"I am pleased to play a part in the launching of this cam­paign because I believe that its goals are a testament to Saint Mary's mission. Saint Mary's has always been a school where women found opportuni­ties when they were unavail­able elsewhere, where students were challenged by high expec­tations and rigorous standards, and where each woman re­ceived individual attention and guidance. I want that to be true in the future, too," said Callahan, a 1962 graduate of Saint Mary's herself. 
"The Sesquicentennial Cam­paign, with its emphasis on cre­ating an ever richer spiritual, academic, and intellectual envi­ronment, will help make his vision of the future a reality," she continued. 
At the champagne reception in O'Laughlin Auditorium, William Hickey, president of the College, stated that the first priority of the four year cam­paign is student scholarships. 

"In the face of rapidly rising college costs, fewer families can afford the full cost of a pri­vate college education. In order to keep the College acces­sible to students from a range of backgrounds as well as to maintain the academic quality of the student body, Saint Mary's currently provides financial assistance to well over 50 percent of the student body," Hickey said. 
"It is critical to the future of Saint Mary's that this vibrant community of learners be as­sured. Thus, one third of the gifts received in the campaign, $10 million, will be channeled into underwriting need-based, multicultural, and merit schol­arships," he continued. 
According to Hickey, the needs of the faculty are also represented in the campaign. 
"The Campaign will desig­nate $5 million to endow junior and senior faculty positions, enabling the College to reward faculty for whom teaching is a true vocation and mentoring students a lifelong commit­ment. These endowed teaching positions will assist us in our efforts to continue to attract and retain the kind of outstand­ing teachers that distinguish sues." 
So, in conjunction with the anniversary celebration of the nation's oldest Catholic law school, the school is capitaliz­ing on its character as it looks to reinvigorate the concept of "professionalism" that Link claims is currently lacking in the legal profession. 
"There has been a total loss of professionalism as the origi­
see lAW/ page 4 
the College today," Hickey said. 
The Center for Academic Innovation, which was estab­lished to coordinate College faculty development and stu­dent enrichment programs, will also benefit from the campaign as $3 million will be endowed to it, according to a press release. 
The Center for Spirituality and special projects in informa­tion technology will receive $1 million and $1.4 million, re­spectively. The projects and their corresponding equipment are the only capital items in the campaign, according to Hickey, who has served as Saint Mary's College president since 1986. 
Donors may also participate in the campaign by endowing part of the $1.6 million allotted for improving projects, which may include musical perfor­mances or funding for the Mul­ticultural Affairs office, accord­ing to the press release. 
Over five years, the Campaign will raise $8 million for The Annual Fund, through which unrestricted gifts may be en­dowed to the College. 
"The Annual Fund will con­tinue to provide an important supplement to our operating 
see GIFf/ page 4 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, October 14, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Losing two doesn't 01ean -we're losers 

The Boston College stu­dents had barely fmished rushing the field and dis­rupting the game when the crying started. 
"Man, we suck!" 
"I'm selling the rest of my tickets!" 
"I think I'll just do homework on Saturday 

afternoon for the rest of Assistant News Editor the fall." 
It's amazing how two losses will turn the cam­pus atmosphere campus from rabid support to passionate disinterest. Fans who ran through Stonehenge last year after Florida State fell, now threaten suicide. From the Rock to Planner, everyone seems to have sold the team out now that the national championship is beyond our reach. 
Please, stop your whining. 

Take a little time to appreciate how good Coach Holtz' 81-22-1 record here at ND really is. Admire our seven consecutive top twenty fmishes. We've had more NFL draftees than any other school in the past two years. If you need any more reason to feel fortunate about our football team, let me give you a case study in ineptitude. And I'm not talking about the Faust years. 
I went to Westhill High School in Stamford, Connecticut. Stamford's a town of 100,000 people near New York City, full of races, nationalities and creeds. Westhill is a school of 1400 students, from the same variable backgrounds. Stamfor4 has a long a glorious tradition of turning out quality athletes. Andy Robistelli of the New York Giants. Bobby Valentine, of major league baseball fame, was a legendary high school football player. Dan Sileo of the Philadelphia Eagles also hails from Stamford. Seems like a place where a decent football team could develop, right? Wrong. 
Westhill has a football team that creates new definitions for terrible. We were, are, and will continue to be, cosmically bad. 

The Mighty Vikings have not put together a winning season since 1985. In my fours years there, from 1988 to 1991 we won seven games. Seven. For those of you scoring at home, that's a bad YEAR at Notre Dame. 
In, my freshman year, when I was naive about such matters, I decided to attend our first two games. I watched in horror as our team was outscored 100-0 in those games. In one of those games, we were held without a first down. We dropped our next six, and our redeemed our selves by "upsetting" the other two weak sisters in our county. 
Our misery was not to end there. The next year. our team only had twenty eight players. That means no substitutes, and also brought threats of disbanment from the Board of Education. We went on to a 2-8 record. 
My senior year we won once. 2-0. We tied another game, when instead of kicking for the win, our quarterback slipped in the mud and fell on the snap as time expired. 
The present Westhill team is no better. So far this year they have been outscored 112-7 in four games. Last week, the team gained five net yards on offense. F-1-V-E. 
So if you're thinking of selling your tickets and becoming more studious on Saturday's, remember this pathetic little team in Stamford. And please, stop your whining. I'll see you in the stands tomorrow. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production 
Dave Tyler Susan Marx 
Edward lmbus Jackie Moser 
Spons Accent 
RianAkey Mary Good 
Viewpoint Tom Roland 
Krista Nannery Graphics 
Lab Tech Chris Mullins Brandon Candma 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righ!S are reserved. 
Dave Tyler 

ATLANTA The homicide rate among young men ages 15 to 19 more than doubled between 1985 and 1991, and researchers attribute the rise to drug gangs' recruiting of younger members and increased use of  Public Policy and Management at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. He contributed to the CDC study. Blumstein said drug gangs are recruit­ing teen-agers because the youngsters have little sense of the risks and conse­ 
guns instead of fists. "When it comes to violence, in the past  quences.  
what may have led to fistfights now leads to gunfire," Dr. David Satcher, director of the Centers for Disease Prevention and Control. said Thursday.  Guns claimed the lives of 88 percent of the 15-to 19-year-olds killed in 1991. From 1985 to 1991, 97 percent of the increase was attributed to guns.  
The homicide rate for males 15 to 19 jumped from 13 per 100,000 in 1985 to 33 per 100,000 in 1991, a 154 percent increase, the CDC said. The nation's high­est homicide rate-41 per 100,000-is  "You have kids transforming bloody noses into shootings," Blumstein said. Homicide's ranking as the No. 2 cause of death among males ages 15 to 19 has changed little since 1963, said Dr. Kenneth Powell of the CDC's National  
among men ages 20 to 24, according to the CDC. "We've got to get guns out of the hands of these kids -it's an epidemic," said  5 o,'85  ...'86  ...'87  ' '86  ' '89  " '90  ...'91  Center for Injury Prevention and Control. Accidents are the leading cause of death and are responsible for 32 percent of deaths in that age group.  

• hllDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAl. WEATHER 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 14. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 
Homicide rate for male teens skyrockets 154 percent 

Soun:e:

Alfred Blumstein of the Heinz School of 
Pilgrims wait to hear divine message 
CONYERS, Ga. 
Thousands of mud-coated pilgrims stood in a drizzling rain for hours Thursday to hear a message from the Virgin Mary. About 23,500 pilgrims from around the world waited; praying aloud, listening to readings from scripture and waving white paper and white handker­chiefs as they sang "Ave Maria." They gathered under umbrellas and tents to hear from Nancy Fowler, who says she communicates with the virgin on the 13th of each month when she appears on the ceiling of a room in Mrs. Fowler's farmhouse. Meanwhile, in Hollywood, Fla., hundreds of pilgrims flocked to the home of Rosa Lopez, who also says the Virgin Mary speaks to her on the 13th of each month. During a 90-minute recitation of the rosary -in Spanish and English -broadcast into the roped-off street over loudspeakers, the sun broke through the clouds. Onlookers dropped to their knees and stared at the blazing sun. Some reported seeing crosses in the sky, others a silhouette of Mary. Forty-five police officers and an ambulance were on hand. They treated a few members of the streetside congregation who were stricken with heat exhaustion. In Georgia, Thursday's message was similar to those Mrs. Fowler has issued previously: Follow God or the earth will be plagued with war, famine, flood and other suffering. It was the fourth anniversary of the messages. Tens of thousands of people have been drawn to the farm since she began speaking of the apparition only she has seen. 
Coors recalls beer carrying bacteria 
GOLDEN, Colo. 
About 150,000 cases of beer were pulled off shelves by Coors on Thursday because they contain bacteria that makes the beer thicker and cloudy. The bacteria, though, does not pose a health hazard, said Hugo Patino a Coors' vice president. He said Belgian brewers inten­tionally keep the bacteria in some beer because it gives it a characteristic look and flavor. The spoiled beer repre­sents about 3 percent of Coors' total beer stock, and the company was working Thursday to identify where the batches had gone nationwide. The 150,000 cases were removed from stores in Denver and Dallas. The affected beer includes Original Coors, Coors Light, Coors Extra Gold, Coors Dry, Killian's Irish Red, Keystone, Keystone Dry, Keystone Light, Keystone Ice, Coors Arctic Ice and Coors Arctic Ice Light. The Coors Consumer Information Center is 1-800-642-6116. 
AP /Teny Kole 
Cheap coffee, fuel to be short lived 
NEW YORK 
Two fuels of the American economy -gasoline and coffee -got cheaper last month, but don't count on the good times to last. Gasoline prices in big cities are likely to rise because of federal requirements for cleaner-burn­ing winter gas. And coffee prices have been up and down in recent months. Wholesale price declines in those two commodities combined to push wholesale inflation fig­ures down sharply in September. The overall drop, reported Thursday by the Labor Department, was good news for the economy, which some analysts had feared was growing too fast, threatening higher inflation. Crop­damaging drought in Brazil, countered by forecasts of healthy rain, have sent coffee prices on a roller-coaster ride. The outlook is about as hazy as an early morning with a broken percolator. Coffee prices on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York have risen near­ly 9 percent this week. Any continued drop in gasoline prices will have to overcome the higher cost of a cleaner­burning mixture that the government requires during the colder months. To reduce pollution, the government has required gasoline distributers to sell gas mixed with ethanol in those cities during the winter months. The oxygenated gasolines typically add about a nickel a gal­lon to the price of conventional gasoline. But if shortages of the special mixture develop, the increase could be more than a dime per gallon. 
Windows, Quicken companies merge 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 
Microsoft Corp. and Intuit Inc. said Thursday that they will merge in a $1.5 billion stock swap that extends Microsoft's dominance into personal finance software. The deal gives Quicken, Intuit's best-selling personal money-management program, to Microsoft. To avoid antitrust concerns, Microsoft, the world's biggest maker of personal computer software, will sell its rival program, Microsoft Money. to Novell Inc. Analysts said the deal ­believed to be the largest software merger in terms of price -gives Microsoft the lead in personal finance pro­grams. Analysts considered Intuit, based in Menlo Park, Calif.. the best example of a smaller company competing successfully against industry-dominating Microsoft. Intuit is a leading producer of small business accounting software best known for the Quicken personal finance program, which the company says has 6 million users. 
Atlanta 63 49 Dallas 73 48 Minneapolis 65 40 BaHimore 63 37 Denver 78 45 New Orleans 66 60 Boston 57 39 Detroit 61 41 New York 61 43 Chicago 62 35 los Angeles 91 65 Philadelphia 63 43 Columbus 64 43 Miami 88 75 Phoenix 92 65 
-

Friday, October 14, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 


Curran will speak on AIDS 

Special to The Observer 
Dr. James Curran, associate director of AIDS programs at the Center for Disease Control (CDC) and a 1966 graduate of Notre Dame, will deliver the St. Joseph's Medical Center's sec­ond annual Emil Hofman lecture at 
8:30 a.m. Saturday in Cushing Hall. 

A pioneer in James Curran the fight against AIDS, Curran will dis­cuss the history of the disease, current developments, and con­tinuing efforts to find a cure or vaccine. His talk is free and open to the public. 
After receiving a bachelor's degree in science from Notre Dame, Curran earned his M.D. from the University of Michigan and a master's in public health from Harvard University. He began his study of sexually transmitted diseases at the University of Tennessee Medical School before joining the CDC in 1978. 
In June 1981 -before AIDS had been named or even rec­ognized as a new and deadly disease -Curran examined a man in New York suffering from Kaposi's sarcoma. At about the same time, the CDC published the findings of two California doctors who had 
OVER 25 YEARS AT 

AUTO • VAN • LIGHT TRUCK SAME LOCATION 
PROFESSIONAL TOWING SERVICE 
•WHEEL LIFT ROLL BACK LOCAL & LONG DISTANCE TOWING 
•JUMP STARTS 
•BRAKES • SHOCKS • EXHAUSTS 
10% OFF TOWING SERVICES WITH STUDENT 10 


COMPLETE AUTO REPAIR SERVICE 
TUNE UPS • CERTIFIED MECHANIC ON DUTY 

AIR CONDITIONING SERVICE COMPLETE ENGINE REPAIR LOCKED OUT? WE CAN HELP! 
277-1970 
Ironwood & Rt. 23 minutes from campus 
treated five patients for pneu­monia, a herpes virus and oral candidiasis. A month later, a report was published titled "Kaposi's sarcoma and pneu­mocystis pneumonia among homosexual men-New York and California." 
At that point, Curran and oth­ers realized the magnitude of the problem and organized a task force to study what would become known as Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome and its precursor, Human Im­munodeficiency Virus. Since then, he has devoted his pro­fessional life to the battle. 
The late Randy Shilts, author of "And the Band Played On," once said of Curran, "I think he's a brilliant man. He's had an extremely difficult job. On one hand, he's trying to do what's right for public health. On the other, he's having to navigate the perilous waters of those watching over the CDC's every move." 
The Hofman lecture is named in honor of Emil Hofman, dean emeritus of Notre Dame's Freshman Year of Studies and professor emeritus of chem­istry. 
Due to traffic associated with the football game, those at­tending the lecture are encour­aged to arrive early. Bus ser­vice will be provided from the St. Joseph's Medical Center doctor's parking lot beginning at 8 a.m. 



Food Servers & Bartenders Must be 21 , Flexible Hours Apply Anytime 
272~3672 
Cleveland Rd. across from UP Mall 


The Morris Inn 
welcomes you 
Every Football Saturday 
Pre/Postgame gathering on campus All activities start at 9 a.m. and continue throughout the day 
Brats•Burgers•Hot Dogs Beverages • Hot Roasted Almonds Gift Shop• Big Screen TV s 
Tents for Inclement Weather 
~ 

THE r10RRIS INN 
NO PARKING AVAILABLE 
Of NOTRE D4HE 


~ 
1 
1 
I 
Boot Scootin' 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students strut their stuff as they learn to country line dance at "Foot Stompin" Thursday" in the 
Hagar College Parlor. 
NOW 



HIRING 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 


ONLY $25.00 to SAVE hundreds ofdollars at restaurants, motels, sports and cultural events, airlines, videos, etc. 
HELP send mentally retarded/ developmentally disabled adults to camp at Greenlake, Wisconsin. 

Contact LOGAN PSB -289-4831. Ask for Dorinda or Carol. 

Where your family can have 
Fun,Fun,Fun! 

Fun Pa11 
L11tJit 11 whal11ne per111n ge11••• 

• 2 Rounds of Miniature Golf 
•1Gameof~ 
• 
A slice of Putter's Fresh-made Pizza and a Small Drink 

• 
1 Ride on the [foum ~ • 1 0 Game tokens 



When purchased is a $14.95 value Your Everyday Low Price 
only $1 0·,~,~.. 
Town & CountryHours Shopping Center 

Mon-Thurs 10-1 0 2500 Miracle Lane 
Fri-Sat 10-11 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 Sunday 1-10 (219)254-0100 

page4 
Law 
continued from page 1 
nal concept of a 'calling' into public service," he said. "It is what distinguishes a profession from a trade and, in essence, what you do in the interest of the general public." 
Serving as a forum for dis­cussion on the topic, the law school will continue with their Fulbright conferences on the subject of professionalism. They recently hosted a number of international scholars who presented the third of the se­ries and plans for another con­ference to take place this fall are underway. 
As the profession as a whole looks to improve its public im­age-which is ranked some­where between that of trash collectors and used car sales­men-Notre Dame's law school is currently undergoing a self­examination, the third of Link's 19 years as Dean. 
In studying its faculty, stu­dents, curriculum, fmancial aid and research role, plans are to evaluate results in light of the school's progress towards turn­ing out highly qualified and ethical professionals, said Link. 
The school's current curricu­lum stands as testimony to its focus on ethics and profession­alism, as it exemplifies how "the pervasive method of teaching ethics is really work­ing in law school," said Link, who graduated from the University in 1958 and from the Law School in 1961. 
"Ethics is not taught as if it was a separate subject, we ex­pect every teacher to teach it in their classes," he said. 
Notre Dame is also the only law school that throughout its entire history has required first year students to take a philoso­phy of law course, said Link. 
"We have never approached law as a pure science," said Link. "Every legal question has moral questions. We want to train lawyers that will always regard themselves a public ser­vants, no matter how they go about providing it." 
As the school continues to provide lawyers with complete training as professionals, it re­lies on its tight, whole commu­nity structure of some 600 stu­dents, faculty, and staff. Stu­dents can only attend the school on a full time basis, as no night or summer courses are offered. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,cm Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: 


$200 
• Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 [219)232-8444 

C 0 L 0 R AD 0­
...... 
~ 
LL ··~"FREE INFORMATION AND RESERVATIONS 
1•800•SUNCHASE 
NOBODY DOES SKI BREAKS BETTER! 
"In order to get into deep analysis of the socio-economic, political background, moral questions and consideration of what the law ought to be, one must be fully immersed in it," said Link. "What is important here is not just what goes on in class-the law has go to be your life." 
As much as this goal is neces­sary, the school's full time na­ture makes meeting its $17,430 tuition difficult for many prospective students. So as part of its self evaluation, Link in­tends for the school to take a tough stance in improving fi­nancial aid opportunities re­sources. He is hopeful that the school's more than 6,000 loyal alumni will fill an important need by making contributions toward this cause. 
As part of the focus on Finan­cial Aid, the school Loan For­giveness program will also be closely evaluated in that hope that its "very minimal funding" will be substantially increased, making public sector work more attractive and possible for the interested graduate, said Link. 
In each year that the U.S. News and World Report has been published, the school has ranked among the top twenty law schools in the rating by lawyers and judges and overall it is ranked eighteenth in the Country by the Gourman Re­port on Graduate Education. Link attributes this accom­plishment not only to the law school's curriculum and envi­ronment of the University itself, but also to the student model the school looks for during ad­missions. 
"We look at their service record and leadership poten­tial-for value oriented ser­vices," he said. "We are looking for people who think they can use their law degree to bring about good, justice and peace. We don't want people here who just want to be lawyers." 
The school typically admits about 30 Notre Dame gradu­ates in classes which average about 170 students each. As for the high percentage, Link said, "we want a cadre of Notre Dame people in every class, they know how Notre Dame works and can bring others into the Notre Dame ethos." 
The Notre Dame Ethos. 
As the school continues its 125th anniversary celebration, a focus on ethics and profes­sionalism would be hard pressed that to find a more fos­tering environment. 

The Observer • NEWS 
Gift 
continued from page 1 
budget that enables us not only to balance our budget, but to have more flexibility within that budget. These funds will go a long way in providing that margin of excellence that char­acterizes the institution," Hickey said. 
The Annual Fund is one cate­gory of the campaign in which everyone in the Saint Mary's family will be asked to partici­pate, according to the press re­lease. 
The campaign has already raised well over $13 million in advanced gifts and has the structures necessary for com­plete success in place, accord­ing to Mary Lou Gorno, national chair of the Sesquicentennial Campaign and a graduate of Saint Mary's. 
"We have used the College's long range plan to build a com­pelling case for funding our pri­orities and have also assembled a National Campaign cabinet who represent diverse groups but who share their commit­ment to Saint Mary's. We will carry out our targeted cam­paigns in every region of the country ... beginning with the South Bend area in the Spring of 1995," Gorno said. 
"Saint Mary's convinced me that I could make a difference in the world, that I could real­ize my dreams, and that those dreams weren't gender-spe­cific. I am here because I owe a great deal to Saint Mary's. But I am also here because I believe in what Saint Mary's can do for future generations of women. And the future is what this campaign is all about," she continued. 
"The Sesquicentennial Cam­paign for Saint Mary's College will ensure that the Saint Mary's of the 21st century is as strong, as attuned to the needs of its students, and as aggres­sive in pursuit of academic ex­cellence as it is today," Hickey concluded. 
Please, recycle The Observer 
Friday, October 14, 1994 

The Observerrrara Mooney Alumna Mary Lou Gorno, President William Hickey, Kaye Ferguson­Patton, and President of the Board of Trustees Sister Rachel Callahan,C.S.C, kick off the Saint Mary's Endowment Fund with a toast. 


Ct-IOPSTJCKS 
CHINESE FAST FOOD We Deliver to your dorm! Mon-Thurs IIa.m. -9p.m. Fri. & Sat. lla.m.-lOp.m. 
East Location: $6 minimum 525 N. Eddy St. 
$1 service charge for South Bend, INorders under $15 232-1177 


Voted "Best Coffee in Michiana" -Michiana Now 
Gourmet Coffee • Gourmet Sandwiches Special Sandwich for Saturday Cajun Chicken 
Saturday's Breakfast or try our house favorites
Specials start at $2.99 
the Grinder the Californian RJ's Club 

282-2522 
109 West Washington Street•South Bend•lndiana (Just a 70 yard scamper from the future College Football Hall of Fame) Monday-Thursday: 6:30 a.m.-lOp.m. Friday: 6:30-llp.m. • Saturday: 7:30 a.m.-llpm Closed Sunday 


Friday, October 14, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Alumnus named U.S. ambassador to Jamaica 
By NANCY DUNN 
Assistant News Editor 
The presence of Notre Dame alumni in world politics keeps growing with the appointment of 1958 alumnus Marine Corps Maj. Gen. Jerome "Gary" Cooper to the position of U.S. ambassador to Jamaica. Nomi­nated by President Clinton, Cooper was confirmed by the Senate on October 4 and is ex­pected to be sworn in next Fri­day. 
Cooper is excited about his appointment and views the ambassadorship as an exciting and worthwhile opportunity in his life, according to Charles Lennon, executive director of the Alumni Association. Cooper hopes to give back some of what he learned at Notre Dame, said Lennon. 
"Cooper's appointment is another example of a Notre Dame alumnus stepping up to a leadership role offered to and earned by him," said Lennon. "I am sure he will do an excel­lent job," Lennon added. 
University President Father Edward Malloy will be visiting with government, business, Church, and education leaders in Jamaica on October 26, and will see Cooper while there. 
"We are pleased that Father Malloy will be one of (Cooper's) first visitors," said Lennon. 
After earning a bachelor's degree in finance in 1958, Cooper was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps. 
During his twelve years of ac­tive service, Cooper served in Vietnam, becoming the first African-American officer to lead a Marine infantry company into combat. 
For his efforts he was hon­ored with the Bronze Star, two Purple Hearts, and three Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry medals. 
Cooper then returned to work in the civilian world as vice president for marketing for David Volkert and Associates, an enginnering and architec­tural firm headquartered in Mobile, Ala. 
He also tried his hand at politics by serving as a state legislator in Alabama. 
Most recently, Cooper was an assistant secretary of the Air Force for manpower, reserve affairs, installations, and envi­ronment. 
In 1979, Cooper was named Man of the Year by the Notre Dame Club of Mobile, Ala. For his patriotism, commitment to community service, and out­standing government service, Cooper was awarded the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Award by the Alumni Association in 1988. 
With his recent political ap­pointment, Cooper will be join­ing ranks of other Notre Dame alumni. Ernesto Perez Bal­ladres was recently elected president of Panama. Also, Dr. 

braz1er® 
"A fun place to be on St. Rd. 23!" St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood Near Martin's 





$i79 


NO"" HIRING 
n--~====~~======~~n--==---~
.so¢ QFF •• so¢ OFF •• so¢ OFF. 
I ~ny SIZe II Double II . . I 
Blizzard or II Cheese Burger II Gr1lled Ch1cken 1
1 

Breeze Sandwich
I 12,16,orllo~ll . *II •• I ~II . . . .II . . ·I 
Not var!d with any other offer. Not val1d with any other offer. Not val1d with any other offer. L Limit 2. Good at St Rd. 23 Only. Umit 2. Good at St Rd. 23 Only. Umit 2. Good at St Rd. 23 Only.
.J L .J L .J 

288-4267 
Pedro Rossello was elected gov­ernor of Puerto Rico last year, and Michael Wadsworth, who has been named Notre Dame's new director of athletics, is cur­rently serving as the Canadian ambassador to Ireland. 
Also, Fernando Cardoso, a member of the advisory board of Notre Dame's Helen Kellogg Institue for International Stud­ies, is Brazil's new president­elect. 
And, Alexandra Foxley, a leading contender for the Chilean presidency as chairman of the Christian Democratic Party and former minister of fmance for the Chilean govern­ment, is the University's Kellogg Professor of Interna­tional Development. 

Teenager charged in murders 
By GINA HOLLAND 
Associated Press 
LAUREL, Miss. 
A teen-ager was charged 
Thursday with murdering two 
gay men in what the sheriff 
said was a robbery, not a hate 
crime, as some activists sus­
pect. 
Sheriff Maurice Hooks said 
one of the victims was carrying 
about $100 before he was shot 
to death, and no money was 
found with the bodies. 
"I definitely can say it was 
not a hate crime," Hooks said 
in announcing the arrest of 16­
year-old Marvin McClendon. 
McClendon is charged with 
capital murder in the slayings 
over the weekend of Robert 
Walters, 34, and Joseph 
Shoemaker, 24, both of Laurel. 
The teen-ager was jailed with­
out bail. 

south Bend/s oakwood villas 
• 
single-family homes -villa concept 

• 
association landscaping & snow removal 

• 
6 models; 1200 to 1900 square feet, or more 

• 
minutes from Notre Dame & StMary's 

• 
minutes from Blackthorn Golf Course 

• 
quick access to the Toil Road and shopping 

• 
Miller Builders -quality homes 




OAKWOOD 
~~VILLAS ----;=::::==::J 
Oakwood Villas 2903 Corpus Christi Dr South Bend, IN 46628 
(219) 277-0337 

--------~ ~--~ ---~~---­
page6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 14, 1994 
Declaring the gospel of nonviotence at Notre Dame 
twenty-five years October 15, 1969 Remember the Moratorium•••Remember Kent State 

The Summer 1994 Open Letter to the Notre Dame Community • • • 
Endorsements 
Robert Wegener '80 Tara Begley Wegener '80 Rev. Emmanuel Charles McCarthy '62, '63, '68 Brockton, MA 
James Douglass '62 Birmingham, AL 
Jules Chiavaroli '72 Pittsford, NY 
John Cox '70 
Harvard, MA 
William Dunley '68 Boston, MA 
Hyginus Peciulis '44 Baltimore, MD 
Mark Mahoney '71 Buffalo, NY 
Dr. Milton Fisk '53 
Bloomington, IN 
Chester Sygiel '69 Jackson, KY 
William Ryan '70 Acton, MA 
Michael Yarborough '70 Columbus, OH 
James Brisbois '44 Hemlock, Ml 
William O'Hare '72 Beverly, MA 
John Cowan '64 Scotts Valley, CA 
Donald F. Cuddihee '54 Greer, SC 
Rev. James Munsch, O.S.B. '69 '71 Latrobe,PA 
Dale S. Recinella •n Tallahassee,FL 
Dr. Thomas Theis '68 '70 '72 Potsdam, NY 
Dr. Robert Tuttle '85 '86 '88 Dr. Margarita Rose '85 '86 '89 Wlkes-Barre, PA 
James G Wor1 '59 Fort Lauterdale, FL 
Luann Duesterberg '82 Madison, WI 
Jack Daly '93 Newark Valley, NY 
Philip Agee '56 Hamburg, Germany 
Anne Barsanti '82 Alexandria, VA 
Liz Hellinghausen Zenteno '82 Austin, TX 
Ozzi Dolan '44 Dubuque,IO 
Dr. Richard Flores '71 Madison, WI 
Thomas Sullivan, M.D. '71 Prairie Ousac, WI 
...Objectives 
This is the third in a series of open letters to the Notre Dame Community, preceded by Christmas 1993 and Lent and Easter 1994. We are a broadly representa­tive NO PeaceNet group coming from many states, classes and disciplines. We advocate closing the 50­year old ROTC programs in favor of a University Chair in Catholic Nonviolence along with the enhancement of other priorities for the next decade as described in 
Colloquy for the Year 2000. 
The dominant theme of Colloquy is "The Catholic identity and character of the University," but we are concerned to find no definition of the strong military presence on our campus, one which many other graduates, as well as faculty and students, see as tightly bound to the Department of Defense coupled with a trust in concepts and strategies of Total War. 
As graduates and others, all of whom cherish affilia­tion with the University of Notre Dame, we under­stand the bonding between student and militarism to mean a contradiction to "the Catholic witness and mission" of Our Lady's University," affirmed in Colloquy and a roadblock to its principal purpose, "the formation of an authentic human community graced by the Spirit of Christ," Lamb of God who said "/ am the Way". 
All we are saying is restore Our Lady's University to full autonomy under the Congregation of Holy Cross and the University Board of Trustees. Our goal: a Pentagon-Free Notre Dame. 
Our commitment is to God's creative power, expressed in forgiveness, compassion and love. In this hope we appeal to all who aspire for a peaceful world. 
The writers of this letter ask for the opportunity to address our concerns in person before the appropri­ate committee of Colloquy for the Year 2000. 
Sincerely in Notre Dame Our Mother, Notre Dame Mother of the Nonviolent Jesus, Notre Dame Queen of Peace, 
John M Finnegan '70 Frank Carver '44 
Endorsements 
Susan M. Gordon '84 Robert Gordon '80 Jeoffrey Parker '83 Michael Siddoway '79 Colorado Springs, CO 
Ronald J. Herman, M.D. '57 York, PA 
Dr. James Donovan '75 Waukegan, IL 
Steven Brion·Meisels '71 Cambridge, MA 
J. Madeleva Roarke '67 Pine City, NY 
Stephen Moriarity '69 '80 Dr. William Storey '54 '59 '72 Jacqueline Dickey '85 South Bend, IN 
Robert Antus '67 Elmhurst, IL 
Daniel Stollenwerk '80 Evanston, IL 
Joseph Ferrone, M.D. '58 Needham, MA 
Ralph McGehee '50 Herndon, VA 
Frances Cackley '82 Christopher Gorka '82 Voorheesville, NY 
Dr. Moira Baker '76 Redford, VA 
Stacy Watson '82 Columbia, MD 
Dr. William Slavick '49 '51 '71 Portland, ME 
Dr. James Dinn '70 '66 '73 Erie, PA 

Rev. Michael J. Baxter, C.S.C. '83 Durham, NC 
Rev. James Gower '44 Bar Harbor, ME 
Thomas Henehan '70 New Orleans, LA 
Mr. Christopher Cox, C.S.C. '92 Notre Dame, IN 
AI Alter'69 Portland, OR 
Thomas Merrigan '78 Billings, MT 
Rev. David F. Monahan '63 Oklahoma City, OK 
Michael Shaughnessy '71 San Francisco, CA 
Charles F. Waters '49 Ewen, Ml 
Regina Wilson '82 '92 South Bend, IN 
M.J. Murray Vachon '82 South Bend, IN 
Dom Vachon South Bend, IN 

RR#4 House by the Waterfalls 1 0 Walnut Woods One Cayuga Street 
•Enlarge Notre Dc-nne 
Dallas, PA 18612 Trumansburg, NY 14886 717-675-0466 607-387-6140 
PeaceNet•Chair in Catholic 

(for Notre Dame PeaceNet) 
• 500 Endorsen1entsNonviolence 
This open letter is dedicated, in grateful acknowledgment, to the individuals and 
for the Su1nn1cr

• Phase Out the ROTC committees throughout Christian history who have given their lives in struggle 
1994 Letter. 

and joy to the non-violent Gospel of Jesus Christ. 
NAME____________________________ DATE__________ 
ADDRESS______________________________________ 
CITY____________ STATE ZIP_________ 
PHONE~ CLASS YEAR ______ signature for publication___________________________________ 
0 More information requested. 
Summer 1994 Open Letter to the Notre Dame Community Declaring the gospel of peace at Notre Dame Please mail to Frank Carver '44, One Cayuga St., Trumansburg, NY 14886 or call (607) 387-6140 
ND PeaceNet is a group of alumnl, students, and faculty of the University of Notre Dame currently being orga­nized to generate ideas and influence for the replace~ ment of institutionalized militarism with peace and justice alternatives at this Catholic University. Goals 
include  the phase  out  of  ROTC,  establishment  of  a  chair  
in  Catholic  Nonviolence,  and  a  periodical  (Notre  Dame  
Peace  Forum  and  Review) .  For  information,  contact  John  

Finnegan. RR #4, 10 Walnut woods, Dallas. PA 18612, phone 717/675-0466. 
---~~-~-------------------------------­
Friday, October 14, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page? 





Nonviolence stressed as Aristide returns Iraqi troop 
ByLISAHAMM hours after Haiti's former army Associated Press leaders flew to Panama. 
Shelton said he feared that PORT-AU-PRINCE massive celebrations Saturday To avoid "mob hysteria," the hailing Aristide's return after 
U.S. military plans to carry three years in exile would de­President Jean-Bertrand Aris­generate into a mob scene. tide by helicopter from the air­"All the leaders have stressed port to the National Palace nonviolence ... but you get the when he returns from exile crowd hysteria that starts to Saturday. creep in occasionally, particu­
"Right now, that's our plan: larly if there are those who to helo him," Lt. Gen. Henry want to incite a riot," he said. Hugh Shelton, commander of Meanwhile, Haiti's former 
U.S. forces here, said Thursday, army commander, Raoul Ce­

~~tl. Esp~1l 
.!j w 0 
~ Spanish Mass r­
11:30 a.m. 

Badin Hall Chapel Celebrante Padre Patrick Neary, c.s.c. 
Todos Estan lnvitados 

All Are Welcome 
dras, arrived early Thursday in Panama to begin his life in ex­ile. 
But he won't be without in­come. The United States plans to lease Cedras' two homes in Haiti -in effect giving U.S. government money to the one­time dictator. 
Shelton met with Haiti's new army commander, Maj. Gen Jean-Claude Duperval, for sev­eral hours Thursday to discuss security. 
Shelton said the U.S. military wanted to avoid situations in which Aristide would be part of a procession or make im­promptu speeches before crowds. 
Aristide's representatives in Haiti couldn't immediately be reached for comment on the plans to fly him directly to the palace. 
Shelton also said that Lt. Col. Claudel Josephat, the comman­der of the northern district who resigned in disgust after 10 Haitian soldiers were killed in a firefight with U.S. Marines in Cap-Haitien on Sept. 24, was missing. Shelton said he re­portedly was organizing resis­tance to the U.S. presence in Haiti. 
Shelton said another regional commander, Col. Evans Gideon, was also missing. Gideon was fired after his soldiers tried to attack U.S. Army Special Forces in the southern town of Les Cayes on Oct. 2. 
Cedras and his family were taken to the international air­port by a convoy of U.S. Humvees before dawn Thurs­day. 
Then the man who· helped overthrow Aristide on Sept. 30, 1991, accompanied by his top general, Philippe Biamby, flew to Panama. 
U.S. soldiers erected a barri­cade of concertina wire around military headquarters to pro­tect Haitian soldiers from crowds seeking retribution. 

ban gains support 
By LOUIS MEIXLER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
A U.S. proposal to ban elite Iraqi combat troops from near the Kuwaiti border is gaining support among key allies, but there is still disagreement on the details. 
The United States, Britain and France have agreed that Iraqi Republican Guard units must withdraw from the Kuwait border region and measures need to be taken to ensure that the soldiers do not return. 
But a draft resolution includes no timetable for the pull back and does not specify what the United Nations would do if the soldiers return, a Security Council diplomat said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The United States is pressing for a strong resolution demanding a withdrawal, but France is pushing for a non­binding presidential statement, the diplomat said. 
A statement would require unanimity in the 15-member council, which could delay any statement and lead to a far weaker declaration. 
"There is general agreement that something must be done to prevent a repetition of the actions we have been seeing on the southern border," U.S. Ambassador Madeline Albright said Thursday. 



The Hammes KODAK FUN SAYER 35NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus " Camera Series Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. Special Hours Football Weekends! Friday 9 a.m. -7 p.m. Saturday 8 a.m. -7 p.m. Kodak = I'RODUCTS  


page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT October 14, 1994 
• 
• 


WIN A TRIP FOR TWO TO LOS ANGELES TO SEE THE IRISH PLAY UCLA!  
FREE BLIMPIE SUBS TO THE FIRST 1,000 PEOPLE!  
3·POINT AND FREE THROW CONTESTS!  


l_....;.;.;;....----BASKETBALL SEASON AT
NIKE and CHAMPION PRODUCT GIVEAWAYS! 

MIDNIGHT! 
I.IV£ MUSIC BY CAMPUS BAND ''TAU£ NORTH'' THIS FRIDAY • 11 P.M. • JOYCE CENTER MAIN ARENA Call 631·6095 for info. and shooting contest registration 
Shooting contests will begin at 11 p.m. Call 631-6095 to register. When you call 631-6095, just leave your name, which contest you want to participate in (three-point or free throw) and you must be present at 11 p.m. tonight at the JACC main arena. 
&£tK£R£ 
8111 

tONlGKt\ 
WIN ATRIP FOR TWO 
TO NEW YORK FOR 
THE 1995 BIG EAST 
MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT! 
KICK OFF THE 1994 95 
. • 


IRISH 

Friday, October 14, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
Computer whizzes move on March to democracy 
goes on in Latin America 
By HEATHER TOMLINSON 
News Writer 
Why will graduate student Jeff Squyres, junior Junlei Li, and seniors Joe George, Brian Luense, Brian McCandless, and Michael Nahas miss watching the Florida State football game on November 12? Because on that Saturday, these six com­puter whizzes will represent the University of Notre Dame at the East Central regional com­puter programming contest at the University of Waterloo in Ontario, Canada. 
The five undergraduate stu­dents earned the right to rep­resent the University by scoring the highest on a campus com­petition in which they were given five problems and asked to create algorithms, or nu­meric equations, to solve them. 
Nahas was this year's first­place finisher in the contest, which was sponsored by the department of computer sci­ence and engineering. With his return to competition after a year's hiatus, the senior com­pleted all five problems cor­rectly in less than the three hours allotted to him. 
McCandless, who is the head of the Programming Club at Notre Dame, finished second. George, Li, and Luense rounded out the top five. The sixth rep­resentative, Squyres, is the computer science and engi­neering graduate student who set up and administered the contest. 
Aided by advisors Ray Sepeta and Andrew Lumsdaine, pro­fessors at Notre Dame, the stu­dents have been meeting once a week to discuss strategies and review problems from previous years' competitions. 
According to Nahas, while the team takes the competition se­riously, the tone of the meet­ings is "lighthearted." George believes that the team members 

work well together, and says 
"We bring out the strengths in 
each other." 
The collaborative effort should prove to be useful on the day of competition, when the students are asked to work together in solving about eleven questions in five hours. The .participants will compete in teams of three; the first consist­ing of George, Luense, and Squyres, and the second of Li, 
Nahas, and McCandless. 
According to George, the 
teams were formed as evenly as 
possible, so that both teams will 
do well. The top two teams in 
the region will go on to com­
pete in a worldwide competi­
tion with participants from 
Europe, China, Japan, 
Australia, New Zealand, Africa, 
and Canada. 
Nahas believes that with two 
years of experience competing, 
Notre Dame could advance to 
the international level of com­
petition. 
By CHRISTINE RASLAVSKY 
News Writer 

The journey to stable democ­racies in Latin America has been difficult and is still ongo­ing, Juan Mendez, the general counsel of Human Rights Watch (HRW), said in a lecture yesterday afternoon. 
HRW is an organization which seeks to promote and protect the rights of people around the world, specifically concentrating their efforts in Latin America. 
When the organization be­gan, military dictatorships gov­erned the majority of Latin America. 
Since then, HRW has ad­justed as Latin America en­tered a period of transition leading to the present systems of government that Mendez de­scribed as stable democracies. 
the only assurance of justice." 
HRW campaigns for either the abolition of military courts or the strict limitation of mili­tary justice to only military offenses such as desertion. 

HRW works for the separa­tion of the police and the mili­tary, the subordination of both to a civilian government, and the allowance of open investi­gations into both. 
They also observe election campaigns to ensure that all competing parties have the freedom of expression that citi­zens need in order to indepen­dently decide who to vote for. Free election competitions pro­mote the vibrant society that defines a democracy, Mendez said. 
Another issue important to HRW is accountability. Mendez stated "we object to the amnesties that have the effect 

During the period of rule by of impeding the investigation of military dictatorships, HRW crimes against humanity," and fought political violence. Now defmed those crimes as crimes

Where 

they try to prevent the violence which are "systematic, mas­
If you see 

caused by insurgent groups as sive, and deliberate." 
well. Examples that he provided

have the 21 

According to Mendez, their included genocide, homicide, main goal is to work for unexplained disappearances of 
news


years gone? 

democracy, "which means citizens, and forced relocation
happening, 

more than free and fair elec­of large groups of people. tions." Mendez emphasized that gov­
call The


Happy 

Ronald Reagan justified U.S. ernments neither have the support of repressive Latin right to "sweep under the car­
Observer 

America regimes because these pet" crimes against humanity 

Birthday 

nations held elections. Mendez nor "to take away the right to
at 

insisted on a larger and broad­see justice done." 
er view of democracy which

Kelly••• 
631-5323 

could not support either those Although the transition to regimes or Reagan's jus-democracy and the elimination tification of U.S. actions. of human rights abuses are dif­
from Mom and Dad 

Mendez focused his broader ficult processes, Mendez spoke concept of democracy upon two encouragingly. "We have basic areas: the independence made an impressive gain ... the of the judiciary and a vibrant, strength of the human rights
Featuring: 
strong, and independent soci-movement, the variety and ety. "An independent judiciary richness in the human rights
Hickory Smoked Ribs 
is the only guarantee against movement in Latin America is



]~Shadu 
human rights violations, and -truly impressive." 
Hickory Smoked Chicken 
$ St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet
fj~ B Granger, Indiana Fried Chicken 
uAs You Wish" 
Tender Seafood 

277-3143 
I rnporta
Grilled Steaks Deliciously Thick Pizza 
Sweaters, Clothing, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much More!
FAMILY STYLE SPECIAL 
Guatemala • Peru • Mexico • Nepal 
All you can eat Ribs and Chicken Dinner 
Thailand • India • Ecuador 
$6.99 for groups of 10 or more 
l11crediblekP.ricep
une Wee uny.1
PERFECT FOR SECTION DINNERS! LaFortune-Room 108
Located on State Rd. 23 and Bittersweet 
Oc;t. 10-15 (Sat.) 10:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 
Explore the history of Saint Mary's ... and enjoy a scenic tour of Notre Dame 
A Notre Dame Sesquicentennial Book
Priceless Spirit Trees, Shrubs, and Vines 

A History of the on the University of NoJre
Sisters of the Holy Cross, 1841-1893 

Dame Campus 
FOR.•. 

Barbara J. Hellenthal, Thomas J.
M. Georgia Costin, 
WEEKENDS/HOLIDAYS

Schlereth, and Robert P.
C.S.C. 
BIR1liDAYSIWEDDINGS 

Mcintosh
"Costin reappraises the 
'HOME COOKIN'! 
persons and events that 

This unique guide contains a shaped this Catholic 
Book ecrly for the tdidays and

complete description of each kind of 
sove! Call today for current ION
religious community from plant found on the University of 

fares andavailable dates.
its origins in France to the 

Notre Dame campus. A walking death in 1893 of its 
guide of the central section of mission founder in the 
campus and a map are also United States, Fr. Edward 
included, which will delight visitors 
Council Travel

Sorin, who established 
who can use them to locate and 
1153 North Dearborn

$24.95 cloth 
the University of Notre identify for themselves the various 
Chicago, IL 6061 0 
$19.95 paper

Dame."-Library Journal trees and shrubs on the Notre 
311•951•0585

Dame campus. Call for a FREEPublished by the University of Notre Dame Press 
Available at the Hammes-Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Student Travels magazine! 




'' 
page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 14, 1994 

-----_--:-. 
.. --~----------.--;---;.-----------.. --=---=--=-----:-­
----~-----­

Friday, October 14, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Wonten lobby Pope over priesthood issue 
By BRIAN MURPHY 
Associated Press 
ROME 

A group of American women led by a radical Chicago nun laid out a strategy Thursday to bring their demands for priest­hood right to the Vatican. 
Protests and lobbying are planned to coincide with the second half of a month long gathering of bishops and other clergymen drafting a report for Pope John Paul II on trends in Roman Catholic religious life and the roles of women. 
The document will be based on hundreds of proposals, in­cluding appeals to expand women's influence in Vatican affairs. 
One such suggestion is for female lay cardinals, the eccle­siastical rank that selects the pope. 
But some women contend the first step in any reform must be a repudiation of the all-male priesthood. 
"That's the only thing that really matters," said Sister Donna Quinn of Chicago. 
"The priesthood is the funda­mental part of the Church and without the ability to become priests, everything else is irrel­evant." 
Quinn, a Dominican nun, plans to lead protests in St. Pe­ter's Square until the synod ends on Oct. 29. 
Along with other American women, she has urged her bishop to speak up for strengthening women's roles in the Church. 
A committee of U.S. bishops issued a draft document on Tuesday urging the Church to "reject sexism" and encourage women to become top theolo­gians and Church administra­tors. 
The bishops did not, however, challenge the prohibition on women priests firmly restated by the pontiff in May. 
"This will be the downfall of the Church," said Quinn, who takes part twice a month in a women-led celebration that fol­lows the tradition of the Mass, including offering bread or a wafer. 
She said hundreds of similar rites by Roman Catholic women protesting their exclusion from the priesthood take place across the United States. 




271-7674 
1811 South BendAve. 

Professional Hair Care Services 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
TRADE 

Try this on for size 
Saint Mary's freshman lvonne Grantham and Becky Jacobs try on hats in the Lemans Hall Lobby. The Country and Western boutique, Dudes and Darlings sold items as part of "Foot Stompin' Thursday." 
Mistrust greets new cease-fire 



Give the Gift ofTradition 
A Limited Edition Handcolored Prints by 

Ken David 
O'Hara Room LaFortune October 14 & 15 
9:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 



SECRET 
PAUL lVIITCHELL 
Bring in this coupon and receive 15°/o off of your PAtJI.. 1\HTCHELL purchase. 
\Ve also offer a Full Service Salon. 
I 

Call (219) 273-5264 or 273-5265 for an appointment. 
L 

Expires 10/23/94 

_,..... ______ _ ______________ 
Il 
A young man hanging out on a street corner, Bernard O'Hara, believed the Protestant cease-fire will last a few months at most. 
"They're too bigoted," O'Hara said. "I wouldn't trust them." Patricia Breen was one of the few voices of optimism. 
"We are delighted by it," she said on her way out of a bakery. "We're leaving our doors open, no more drop bars. Parties ev­erywhere." 
Most people here will wait and see whether the peace can really be true, and lasting ­that both extremes in the con­flict have stopped shooting and bombing for the first time in 25 years. 
Belfast is, after all, criss­crossed with tall walls, eu­phemistically called "peace lines," which the government erected to separate some Catholic and Protestant neigh­borhoods. 
And it echoes with the mourning of people who have lost friends and relatives in the quarter-century of strife. 
"Peace will not come overnight," said Joyce McCar­tan, who has seen 13 relatives slain. "It'll take years to heal the wounds on both sides, maybe 20 years to build up that trust." 
In 1987, Protestant gunmen burst into her home and fatally shot her youngest child, 17­year-old Gary. 
'Til never get over my child's death. It broke my heart," she said. 
She hid her daughter, Rosario, for months after the girl witnessed the gunmen storming into the hallway and later received threats. 
Despite Rosario's testimony, no one was convicted in Gary's death. Three men Mrs. McCar­tan holds responsible were later imprisoned for other crimes. 
Mrs. McCartan said the best she can hope for is peace for fu­ture generations. 
She recalled that a few months before Gary was killed, he told her that his girlfriend was pregnant. "I have a beauti­ful, wee granddaughter -part of him -which helps to heal a bit." 

By DIRK BEVERIDGE 
Associated Press 
BELFAST 
Suspicion runs deep in the shabby streets of Belfast's Lower Ormeau district, where Catholics use thick metal "drop bars" to keep marauding gun­men from breaking down their doors. 
So in this and other Catholic neighborhoods, relief over the cease-fire announcement by Protestant paramilitaries Thursday was tempered with mistrust. 
"I think they're just doing it as a ploy, just a cover," one woman, who refused to be iden­tified, said. "My drop bars will be on for a couple of weeks." 
------:---------...,_,-,_.,...____ 








VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, Ocotber 14, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARy's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Conuoller..................................... Krisren Marrina 
The Obs.:rver is the independent newspaper published by the studenrs of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor /Production General Information Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 



• lETIERS TO THE EOITOR 
Apology not necessary for humor 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to Theresa Aleman's article entitled "Forum addresses adversity today's women face" (Oct. 14). One of Aleman's sources, Joe Evans, has grossly misrepresent­ed the attitudes of Alumni hall men. 
First of all, the "hall notes" she wrote about are not hall notes at all. They are a series of humor­ous newsletters written by an individual hall resident for the entertainment of hall residents and are not intended to represent the official views of the hall. They are not forced upon anyone. If a resident desires to read them, he may take one from the stack near the mailboxes of the hall. Anyone who finds the humor offensive is welcome to ignore the newsletter altogether. 
Secondly, the newsletter is pur­posely written with a ridiculing, satirical style. The newsletter ridicules everyone it portrays, especially Alumni hall men. 
I do not and cannot apologize for the statements in the Alumni Hall new.sletter. If you are offended by them, please do not read the newsletter. Instead, start your own newsletter con­taining humor you do appreciate and find acceptable. Do not criti­cize me for appreciating all types of humor, be them vulgar or tasteful. 
By the way, the excerpt Joe Evans quoted is almost two years old. Since that newsletters publi­cation, the Alumni Hall rector has asked its publishers to keep offensive language to a minimum. 
SHAFULADHA . junior Alumni Hall 
Carroll responds 
Dear Editor: 

The reprehensibility of the materials published in yesterday's Observer, cannot be understated. In no way are such destructive and chauvinistic ideas condoned in Carroll. 
Weeks before the October 13 article was printed, many residents including our Rector, unequivocally indicated that such notes were unacceptable. The parties involved were reprimanded and notified such intolerable statements could result in dis­missal. The following week's notes were accept­able. Thus, the situation was handled appropriate­ly by Carroll Hall. Such grotesque comments have no place in a civilized and Christian context and our actions as a hall government indicate such a stance. 
Rather than contact Carroll, Joe Evans and the Editor of The Observer perpetuated the hurtfu1 con­tent of the notes while implying that all residents of Carroll condone such statements. This is simply wrong. We disagree with Evans' indicating the place of their origin and the editor's printing of the name. Carroll effectively dealt with the vulgar and insensitive comments of these notes and feels our right to manage its own affairs was violated. By naming Carroll, Evans stereotyped the dorm. 
Carroll Hall sincerely apologizes for the offense that many women and men have taken to the notes. 
GREG GARY-GIRZADAS 
DAVE LILLIS 

Carroll Hall Co-Presidents 
Hall 'newsletters' insult ND women 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to address the news article written by Theresa Aleman in yesterday's Observer con­cerning the women's forum and the "lists" that appeared in the Alumni and Carroll hall and/or sec­tion notes. 
I find it hard to believe that anyone-especially any of the so-called intelligent, enlightened stu­dents here at Notre Dame-would write such igno­rant, appalling trash. To be sure, I have never seen such a revolting example of male chauvinism in my life. The absolutely sub-human quality of these well-read lists is a disgrace not only to Alumni and Carroll, but to the University of Notre Dame as well. 
The responsibility for these egregious comments cannot but rest on every single individual who read them-whether student or hall staff-and let them remain in public for all to see. 
To all Notre Dame men who read such garbage with delight, I say open your eyes and take a look at the beautiful women of Notre Dame. If your nean­derthal attitudes persist, chances are that is all you'll ever get to do. 
MEGAN KEENAN 
Junior 
Farley Hall 
• 000NESBURY 
PeAJ,.LY? YOU KNaUMJO/Aa.­ROY/Jf.JRIN6HIG eAI?J-YCAtlffFNIA 
YtA/?5? ..JP~~--..­
\ 
I"IA//3 HIT ITCFF116TANTZ-Y...•• 
50AFTERI CA'3HWOlfT Of~{l)HfMNY, I HAI1 70IXJ 5011161HIN6! 'iOI ~ 80/J'!1HTAHOI9 
INCAJ,/FORNIA! 

I lJifJN'TAc.TUAJ.J.-YMOVCIN­
7Hl3 1M''3/TUATION a/A'3700 
Pl3RFf3CT IN ~'3 -8UTMY tu!Felf/8ffCKJT 70t'3TA8U5H A ee.AOfHlfAf}.' 7HE?N AT lH/3 /..A'3TM/NIJT!3, I JO/Nel?HeR AN{)80U6HTA (]}ttk3f?l!9j/ONA1­
~~ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
A10RE:UK&­A'3CHeM&. UK£MYCAN­[l()Rr IT'GMY 
tf/lfe-''3/lJ&A .
\,, 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Nothing in life is to be so exhilarating as to be shot at without result." 
-Winston Churchill 
Friday, October 14, 1994 page 13



VIEWPOINT 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Gays get nothing with self-defeat 
ings or furtctiions. 
Finally. asaf()reJ:rteJltioonect, education. .uuu...<~uu'u We encourage Jull ul::o\iu,l.::nq facts pertilining to tion, and 'lj.J)otthin's. aftermath .. It • is' t.he informed consent,. mation Which may 
mind. Antagonizing "u''"aw• silence" and promoting 
The purpose. of any admit, iS to arrive at prose "Do··I· contradict 
diet myself"isnot dp.ims. tha,,:.c7:th~such as 'Fi1'~ti~ 
Rather itistbf:l -~·~· ..~ ..·~­of truthful answers 
Dear Editor: 
Tuesday, October 11, was National Coming Out Day. the day homosexual and bisexual people decide that they want to be rec­ognized for who they are. They are asked to wear a ribbon to show their support of these beliefs and rights. However, I found something disturbing as I walked to DeBartolo on Tuesday morning. On the sidewalk in front of Fitzpatrick, a phrase was written in chalk: Gay Engineering Students' Entrance. The mere concept of writing something like this "entrance" message suggests immediate segregation. If we are 
Hickey fails SURV, SMC 
Dear Editor: 
When the SURV expansion committee gave Saint Mary's women the opportunity to fill out questionnaires on its quality last year, over ninety percent an­swered that they would utilize SURV if it were expanded and improved. They were the fuel for our service. 
Saint Mary's mission does indeed state, "Saint Mary's pro­motes a life of ... social responsi­bility." In black and white it vows to "remain faithful to this mission by continually assessing the com­plex needs and challenges of the contemporary world." 
I am one of the ninety percent plus who challenge Saint Mary's to follow through with its mis­sion. I went through the "proper" channels to have our needs heard. Our proposal was excel­lent yet our committee was ignored. Why? 
At the inexorable risk of being going to write something that implies, "If you're gay, go in this door," why don't we write, "Black people through this door, white people through that door?" The answer is that we are a more mature people now and have seen our wrongs. A message suggesting that only gay people should walk through this door and be proud of it is self-defeat­ing. It is segregation in the very purest form. If they want equal rights or want to be recognized, why should they have their own entrance to a building? 
I thought the point of Coming Out Day was to be proud of one­self and not having any hesita­tions about saying so. Yet, the signs all over campus were writ­ten in the middle of the night. If Notre Dame gays are so proud to be gay, why wasn't this done dur­ing the day when everyone could have seen it? 
Notre Dame gays should con­sider thinking about what they really stand for, what they really want, and what the best, most mature way of going about that is. Until this is done. they are only hurting themselves. 
JOSHUA QUINN 
Junior 
Flanner Hall 


disrespectful, I will state that Dr. William Hickey, President of Saint Mary's, lied to us. He com­mitted to a service center with a full time staff in the basement of Holy Cross Hall. He suggested the renovation be completed by the beginning of the fall semester. I imagine he assumed since many vociferous members of the expansion committee were grad­uating in May, he could commit and fail to follow through. 
Within the next 150 years, Saint Mary's will truly live out its mission of social responsibility and Catholicism. It seems to me that an investment in a service center for the future of the col­lege makes sense. 
The expansion ball has lost some velocity but it is still rolling. Saint Mary's is your school and I pass the reigns on to you to ex­pand SUftY· Don't give credence to the monetary argument. 
Surely the alumnae would con­tribute to a cause so worthwhile. I wish you luck in your endeav­ors. ELIZABETH MARTIN SMC Graduate 


Side Show Bob won't take Reps over the top 
Last Sunday Bart and Lisa Simpson were thrust into participating in Springfield's political process. Side Show Bob was running as a Republican for mayor after being released from prison by the incumbent mayor. The Republican Party was portrayed as big business, partisan, and ruthless. At one point, a black limo snatches Bart and speeds away. Side Show Bob and his henchmen threaten Bart by saying, "No kid has ever gone against the Republican Party and lived to tell about it." Party members, headquartered in a haunted castle, included Mr. Burns, other powerfully established people, and a vampire. 
Side Show Bob's television ad against the incumbent mayor was a copy of the 1988 Bush ad showing the revolving door on prisons. While prisoners went in and out of the prison, the announcer told of the incumbent mayor's weak­nesses saying, "He's even releasing Side Show Bob." Then the voice says, "Vote for Side Show Bob for mayor." 
Side Show Bob won with 99% of the vote, much to the chagrin of Bart and Lisa. 
However, after doing research at the library where the files listed everyone who voted. as well as for whom they voted, Lisa discovered that the election was a fraud. Everyone in the cemetery voted for Side Show Bob. Then she dis­covered that everyone in the pet ceme­tery voted for Side Show Bob. Then she discovered that everyone in the pet cemetery including her former cat, Snowball, also voted for Side Show Bob. She said, "Now this is personal," and exposed Side Show Bob who was returned to jail. 
To me, this is probably the best Simpsons episode aired to date. It touched on every political hypocrisy of both parties, but capsulized exactly how the minority party (Republicans) con­duct their legislative obstruction and fear-induced negative campaigning. For example, Mr. Burns' loyal Republican 
Gary Caruso 

assistant was the "Deep 
Throat" who leads Lisa to the files because he has been portrayed as being a closeted Gay in past episodes. He told Lisa, "I do it because of my alternative life-style." 
Sometimes comedy can succinctly define reality. Instantaneously a come­dian can strip a politician of his phony integrity. Leon or Letterman , with one punch line, will KO a public figure's greatest public relations efforts. For example, Leno recently shot a hole through the hypocrisy and blatant partisanship of Rep. Newt Gingrich. One afternoon Gingrich appeared on all three major television networks chastis­ing the Clinton Administration for hav­ing several unethical appointees. That evening Gingrich attended a fund-raiser for a convicted Republican senate nomi­nee from Virginia, Oliver North. 
With the election cycle closing on November 8th, two opposing strategies have emerged from the Democratic and Republican Congressional Campaign Committees. The Republican know that every incumbent president loses seats in the off-term election cycle. They hope to capture the House of Representatives for the first time in forty years by tying Democratic candidates to Bill Clinton. They have as much chance of succeed­ing as Northwestern or Michigan State have of winning the Big Ten Conference this fall. 
Democrats will run again this year on local issues. They will ask what does the area need for jobs, industry, suc­cessful farming, etc. They will address those issues while reminding everyone that it was the Democrats who reduced the deficit for the first time since Harry Truman. They will point to the new crime legislation, and blame Republicans for obstructing Health Care, Lobbying Reform, and Campaign Reform legislation during the last month of this Congressional session. They will also expect the improved economy to help them since the Clinton budget and poli­cies are currently in place. 
Republicans, on the other hand, are so frustrated as the minority that they have evolved from the compromising Bob Michel or Gerry Ford to the Newt Gingrich and Dick Armey ob­structionists. To them, everyone who opposes their policies is wrong, and they will not compromise. More importantly, they would rather destroy the institution of the House than work with the majori­ty. Consequently, they try to act like a majority and complain when they are limited on the number of amendments they can offer on any individual bill. 
So desperate are the Republicans that they tried to nationalize their themes with a "Contract With America" a few weeks ago. They pledge to do certain things in their first one hundred days as the majority of the American public can kick them out. This gimmick is already backfrring on them because it ties all of their candidates to specific issues, like abortion, that may be acceptable in Indiana but not in New York. It further gives Democrats the right ammunition to zero in on defming their Republican opponents. 
Republicans think they can take 25 to 50 seats, according to Gingrich. (They need 40 to take control of the House.) What looked like a major loss for Democrats earlier this election year has now been minimized. Democrats expect 20 to 35 losses with the retention of the House. They are closer to the voter's in­terests. When campaigning they will ask if voters want to return to the Reagan years, banking on the voters' deficit concerns that have already mort­gaged the next two generations. 
A low voter turnout will favor Republicans, unlike the massive support for Side Show Bob. Of course, if you choose not to vote this year, you won't even count as much as Snowball. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, has worked in Washington D.C. at the U.S. House of Representatives for two Congressmen and two House Committees. He is currently working in a Congressional Campaign during this election cycle. His column appears every other Friday. 
page 14 The Observer WEEKEND Friday, October 14, 1994 
Maenificat hiehliehts ~Tribute to women in music~ 
By MOYA SOMERSET 
Accenr Writer 
The world premiere perfor­mance of composer Libby Larsen's Magnificat Canticle of Mary by the Saint Mary's College Women's Choir, South Bend Chamber Singers and Symphony Chamber Orchestra, led by conductor Nancy Menk, is tonight at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Her11.lded as the leading fe­male composer of the twentieth century, Larsen's The Magnificat is the highlight of a weekend of performances enti­tled "A Tribute to Women in Music." All of the music per­formed at the concert has been written by female composers. Other pieces include "Pinions" and "The Settling Years" by Libby Larsen, "Duo Ye" by Chen Yi and Concerto for Piano and Orchestra by Clara Schumann. 
Larsen, renowned for her opera, Frankenstein, The Modern Prometheus, has more than sixty commissioned works and six operas to her credit. This "most active and sought­after" conductor in America has spent this week as an artist-in-residence at Saint Mary's. 
In one of her lectures, Larsen explained her dilemma in com­posing The Magnificat, which centers around the Visitation and how Mary received the news. Larsen's struggle cen­tered around the word "ac­claim." 
Larsen realized she was look­ing for the private ownership a woman feels when she has a baby which raised the question of Mary "owning" the Visitation. 
"I want the music to reflect this noisy kind of joy in the music. The audience should get a feeling of acclaiming, exclaiming and shouting the joyful news," she said. The Canticle of Mary was commis­sioned for the Sesquicentennial Celebration. 
"Commissioning a work is a wonderful way to commemo­rate this anniversary" stated Menk, "The college commis­sioned a Mass for the 125th anniversary and the celebration continues on through the mu­sic. 
"In addition to being one of America's most respected com­posers, Libby Larsen is also a strong advocate for contem­porary music. We are honored to have her with us for the week and we thank her for the insights she has brought both students and faculty." Menk added. 
The attitude is mirrored in Larsen's passion for her music. "I write a piece to help Saint Mary's College or an organiza­tion celebrate the community, the coming together and stay­ing together for a time span. Or if I have a passion for an idea I work with a performer or or­ganization to bring it into a per­formance venue." 

This motivation was trans­ferred to the students who met Larsen. "I was inspired by her life story, you don't have to have a classical background you can incorporate your back­ground into your music," said Michelle Hessell. 
When questioned by students concerning sexism in music and composing Larsen replied, "The first thing a man perceives is a woman and not a mind. I do not believe that this is intentional, much of this is through social conditioning." 
Larsen agreed that women face different challenges than their male counterparts, "Finding interrupted blocks of time is the hardest. First thing I am a mother, and it is impor­tant to learn to work symbioti­cally for all of your life." 
She advised students to begin developing independent rela­tionships immediately. "Self­motivation and self-confidence are the two greatest assets of an independent artist," Larsen continued. 
A "Meet the Composer" pre­view at 7 p.m. will give the evening's audience an opportu­nity to hear Larsen and the other conductors speak on the program. 
Tickets are available through the South Bend Symphony and the O'Laughlin Box Offices. 



Student Alumni Relations Group: Helping students make connections 
By PAITI CARSON 
Accenr Writer 
Imagine a group of people who are willing and anxious to assist you in pur­suing a career. Imagine a group whose members have already experienced the "real world" that lies beyond college, with its professional trials and tribula­tions that you, too, may encounter upon graduating. What you are imagining is the Notre Dame Alumni Association. And you can easily become involved with alumni through the Notre Dame Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG). 
SARG is a group that fosters relations with alumni and works to get students involved in alumni relations, according to Gina Agresta, co-chair for the SARG community service committee. 
Open to all Notre Dame students, SARG is a relatively new organization on campus. "Membership has increased significantly over the past five years," said Agresta. 
According to Agresta, one of the largest benefits of membership in SARG is access to the extern program. The extern program enables students to spend a week with an alumni in the pro­fession of their choice. Any students may apply and SARG will provide spon­sors for those students to shadow. 
Agresta said that students may nor­mally spend the week of either fall or spring break with an alumni, but this year spring break is the only option. Students must make their own travel and housing arrangements, however, alumni may sometimes provide housing. 
"The extern program is a great oppor­tunity to explore your career options," Agresta said. 
SARG also participates in Alumni Awareness Week, which usually takes place in January. This specific week is designed to get students involved in alumni relations, according to Agresta. 
One feature of Alumni Awareness Week is "Say Hello Day." On this day, people wander the campus and say hello to students. If those students return their greeting, they are given an alumni card. 
"This card may entitle the student to a five dollar discount on a pizza or some other special prize. Students may turn these cards in at the Alumni Association Office to claim their prizes," Agresta said. The card also contains an alumni fact, she added. 
Agresta said that the scavenger hunt is another part of Alumni Awareness Week on campus. One clue per day is printed in The Observer, leading one lucky student to a prize, according to Agresta. 
SARG also presents the Senior Spirit Award at the end of each year. "This award is presented to one senior in each dorm who is elected by his or her peers," she said, "The award is pre­sented to students who exemplify the Notre Dame spirit in the areas of acade­mics, leadership, and service." The names of the recipients are inscribed on a plaque in each dorm. 
SARG also presents distinguished graduate and undergraduate awards to students who are nominated by peers or professors. 
SARG is comprised of many students and two alumni advisors. Advisors Frances Shavers ('90) and D'Juan Francisco ('89) are assistant directors for alumni clubs. SARG is also employed by the talent of four officers and the chairs of all SARG committees, who together make up the executive board of the club. 
Other committees monitor the extern program, activities, fundraising, publici­ty, and community service. The con­vention committee and the distinguished alumni lecture series/awards committee are also components of SARG. 
The executive board of SARG meets with the National Alumni Board, which is made up of twenty-two alumni mem­bers, on three occasions per year. These twenty-two board members rep­resent alumni from over 200 national and international Notre Dame Alumni Clubs, according to Agresta. 
SARG also works in association with the Student Alumni Association-Student Foundation (SAA-SF). This is a national network of schools which convenes at one designated university two times per year. Of the two meeting occasions, one conference is national and the other is regional. 
SARG representatives attend these meetings to get ideas from other alumni clubs and to improve current relations, according to Agresta. In April, Notre Dame will be hosting the District Five Conference, which will include semi­nars, speaker presentations, and a ban­quet. 
SARG works in accordance with the Alumni Association to sell "The Shirt" at 
· hospitality booths during home football weekends. SARG also hosts legacy receptions for students whose parents attended Notre Dame. 
"I defmitely encourage students to get involved with SARG," said Agresta. "This organization provides an oppor­tunity to meet exceptional alumni who support Notre Dame students in all their ventures. After all, they were once in our shoes. Students should take advan­tage of all they have to share," she con­tinued. 
Anyone interested in becoming a member of SARG may contact the Alumni Association or SARG president Greg Nordoff. 


·-l ~ tr-·'_) ____ r r) ....,,._ 

GAME DAY 
A look at Saturday's matchup between the Irish and the Cougars. see pages 2-3 
BOUNCING BACK 
Lee Becton tries to regroup after a dismal start to the season. see page 7 
Friday, October 14, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 2 
IRISH ON THE OffENSIVEm 
m m 



Photo courtesy of Brigham Young University 

PLAYER TO WATCH~ ... TRAVIS HAlL 
Last spring, 
has become the thorn Brigham Young coach in many offensive tack­LaVell Edwards de­les' sides, and should scribed his defensive continue to do so. line as "quicker and With Notre Dame's better pass rushers." offensive line decimat­This year, he has to be ed by injury, the play­thankful that his early ers have not been able assessment was such to achieve a level of
Hall 

a good one. 
This statement would not be true, however, unless defen­sive end Travis Hall did not become a major force for the Cougars and a major threat to opposing quarterbacks this season. 
In the Western Athletic Conference, one known for twice as much passing as rush­ing, the teams that win need to have someone that can keep the quarterback on the run. 
Hall has answered the call. 
One of the captains for this year's Cougar team, the senior has led by example, recording 108 tackles on the season. sec­ond on the team. 
But more importantly, he has recorded 4.5 sacks and has caused the opposing quarter­back to hurrS his throws 13 times. 
He has also intercepted a pass and knocked down five others. 
The 6-6, 245-pound lineman 
consistency typical of usual Irish lines. 
And if the left tackle, be it Mike Doughty or Mike McGlinn, does not get his act together. Hall can consistently be in the backfield Saturday. 
Last week, McGlinn started for the injured Doughty, and had a hard time getting his pads or hands on Boston College defensive end Mike Mamaula, who recorded two sacks last week. 
Hall's presence is even felt on special teams. With his long reach. Hall has a propensity to block punts, which he has al­ready done this year, and block field goals, which he has done in the past. 
Special teams is an area where the Irish arc beaten every week. 
No matter where Hall plays, he presents a challenge to the weakest links of Notre Dame's lineup. 
-MIKE NORBUT 



Cougars offer Irish a chance to regroup 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Associate Spons Ediror 

Lou Holtz always has something critical to say about his offense. 
As a perfectionist, the Irish football coach is never satisfied with the production his offense may have, regardless of whether the team gains 450 yards in one half or less than 100 in a game. 
Many times. Holtz looks like he's blowing smoke. But this time, he may be gravely serious. "Offensively, we've had some trouble running the football," he said. 
Notre Dame's rushing attack looked impressive against Purdue and Stanford, but stumbled to only 160 yards on 35 total carries last week against Boston College. 
Since seniors Lee Becton and Ray Zellars have been out with injuries, sophomore Randy Kinder has picked up the slack for the Irish, amassing four consecutive 100-yard rushing games. 
But he is the only consistent aspect of the whole offense. 
Ron Powlus has shown flashes of both bril­liance and failure as the Irish quarterback this year. Last week, he threw for only 50 yards and had two of his passes intercepted. This was the same guy who made Stanford quarterback and Heisman Trophy candidate Steve Stenstrom look second best. 
Powlus can't take the fall for the whole team. though. The offensive line has been suspect, and some of the reserve running backs have had a problem holding on to the football. 
"Obviously we feel we have to change some­thing," Holtz said. 
But maybe the Irish do not need to make any changes. Maybe Brigham Young's defense will give the offense the opportunity to grow as a unit. 
"This is the same BYU team you'll see year in and year out," Holtz said. 
That means the Cougars will come in Saturday with a strong offense and, well. a not-so-strong defense. Downright poot·, you might say. 
Basically, BYU has a 5-1 record this year because its offense puts almost 40 points on the board a game and hopes the other team can only score 39. 
Brigham Young returns only five starters from last year's defense that gave up 45 Notre Dame points, including 31 in the first half. 
The Cougar secondary is led by cornerback Patrick Mitchell, who is BYU's equivalent to Notre Dame's Bobby Taylor. The difference here is that though Mitchell has had to deal with heavy passing attacks from Western Athletic Conference opponents, he has not had much experience covering receivers with the overall talent of Derrick Mayes. 
"People are amazed at the plays Derrick makes, but I'd have to say we're used to it," Irish quarterback Ron Powlus said. "We see it every day in practice." 
Though the rest of BYU's defensive baeks are inexperienced, Mayes, Mike Miller, and Charlie Stafford will need to run bettnr routes than they did against Boston College. And most important­ly, they will need to make the routine catches that they dropped last week. 
Of course. all the catches will be routine if Powlus can hit them in stride. But he can only make a good throw when he is not hurried. 
The responsibility of protection rests on the shoulders of an already banged up offensive line. Their job will be much easier this week in block­ing the Cougars' defensive line. 
Brigham Young's strength lies in their two senior defensive ends, Randy Brock and Travis Hall. But the interior linemen. Mike Ulufale and John Haass, are simply rugs that opposing run­ning backs wipe their feet on while scampering into the secondary. 
And when Kinder or Marc Edwards get through the line, they may as well be in the sec­ondary. With the exception of middle linebacker Shay Muirbrook, who leads the team in tackles, the Cougar linebacking corps is inexperienced and easily heatable. 
"For us to win, we have to play as close to our potential as we can," Holtz said. 
If the Irish offense does that, BYU's defense could be in for a long day. But that won't stop Holtz from complaining. 


• RATING THE IRISH 
Quarterback 4 Ron Powlus has shown his youth and inexperience in the past few games, but he always seems to play better at home. 
Running Back 4 

Lee Becton and Ray Zellars are still out this week. That means Marc Edwards and Randy Kinder will see most of ' the time, since the others have a tendency to fumble. 

Wide Receiver 4 

All of a sudden, they are not getting open or making the catches that they once made with grace earlier this year. 

Offensive Line 2 

Pass protection is awful, and the only yardage the running backs get is when they are running for their life. 

Defensive Line 3 

Mark Hartsell could have had a cup of coffee while he searched for a receiver last week, he had so much time. 

Linebackers 4 

Even Notre Dame's best unit looked poor last week. The pressure rests on the shoulders of Justin Goheen and Jeremy Sample to keep this defense ready to play. 
Secondary 3 This unit is always considered the weak link of an already limp Irish defense. IfJohn Walsh has time to throw, Taylor and company may look even more foolish than usual. 
Special Teams 2 Just when the Irish special teams start to look good, they go out and get embarassed by BC. And how can their kick­er boot the ball through the uprights on a kickoff, while our kickers can barely hit one from 35 yards. 
Coaching 5 If anyone can pick up the pieces after last week's debacle, Lou Holtz can. But he will have his work cut out for him. 
-MIKE NORBUT 

31 

Last week, Notre Dame was supposed to play inspired, but got killed by BC. 
Who knows what will happen against Brigham Young? 




I-------~F_r-id_a~~~O_c_t_ob~e_r_l4~,_1_99_4_____-_~_-_-___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T~h~e~O~b~s~e-N~e~r_•~S~P~()~~R~T~S~~~EJ{~-~T~RJ\~~----------------------------------~pa~g~e_4 


COUGARS 

BYU Opp PASSING Comp Att Pet Yds TO In! Lg FIELD GOALS 0..29 31)..39 40-49 50+ Tot First downs 155 116 Walsh 133 224 59.4 1808 14 6 68 Lauder 1-2 5-8 0..3 0-0 6-11 Total yards 2826 2323 Clements 2 10 20.0 25 0 0 16 
Total yards per game 471.0 387.2 PUNTING No Avg Bk Lg Total offensive plays 488 433 RECEIVING Rec Yds Avg TO Lg Boardman 31 40.5 0 61 Avg. yards per play 5.79 5.36 Nowatzke 27 360 13.3 3 48 
Rushing yards 975 717 Johnston 20 268 13.4 2 37 KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO Lg Rushing yards per game 162.5 119.5 Heimuli 20 226 11.3 3 52 Cooper 7 24.1 0 50 Rushing plays 253 226 Willis 18 220 12.2 0 40 Bloomfield 7 23.4 0 47 
Passing yards 1851 1606 Lewis 16 181 11.3 1 31 Passing yards per game 308.5 267.7 Mili 11 229 20.8 4 68 PUNT RETURNS No Avg TO Lg Passes completed 136 107 Doman 10 178 17.8 0 36 Johnston 15 7.1 0 16 Passes attempted 235 207 Passes intercepted 6 4 ALL..PURPOSE Rush Rec Ret Tot Avg INTERCEPTIONS No Yds TO Lg 
Fumbles I Fumbles lost 10/7 15/11 Willis 605 220 0 825 137.5 Damuni 1 6 0 6 Pena~ies-Penalty yards 56-416 47-399 Heimuli 267 226 0 493 82.2 Mitchell 1 4 0 4 Third down conversions 35-93 25-87 Johnston 0 268 106 374 62.3 Hall1 1 0 1 
Percentage 37.6 28.7 Nowatzke 0 360 0 360 60.0 Cook 1 0 0 0 Fourth down conversions 9-12 8-15 Doman 0 178 0 178 44.5 
Bloomlield 77 0 164 241 40.2 DEFENSE T A Tot FR PBU Sac SCORE BY QUARTERS 2 3 4 T Mili 0 229 7 236 39.3 Muirbrook 19 27 46 2 4 2.0 Brigham Young 46 47 49 52 194 Cooper 0 14 194 208 34.7 Pollock 14 21 35 1 3 0.0 Opponents 37 44 30 33 144 Lewis 0 181 0 181 31?·2 S. Raass 10 24 34 1 1 3.0 
J. Cook 17 14 31 0 3 0.0 RUSHING Yds/Gm No Yds Avg TO Lg SCORING TO 2XP 1XP FG Sal Pls C. Cook 11 20 31 0 1 0.0 Willis 100.8 109 605 5.6 9 39 Willis 9 0 0-0 0 0 54 Reed 21 4 25 0 7 0.0 Heimuli 44.5 64 267 4.2 2 18 Lauder 0 0 22-22 6 0 40 Brock 5 18 23 1 1 3.5 Fifita 13.2 10 79 7.9 0 41 Heimuli 5 0 0-0 0 0 30 Mitchell 15 3 18 0 3 0.0 Bloomfield 12.8 12 77 6.4 0 27 Mili 4 0 0-0 0 0 24 Hale 11 6 17 0 0 0.0 Atuaia 6.5 12 39 3.3 0 13 Nowatzke 3 0 o-o o 0 18 Hall 5 12 17 1 5 4.5 McGuire 3.5 1 21 21.0 0 21 Johnston 2 0 o-o o 0 12 J. Raass 17 0 0 1.0 Walsh -20.0 43 -120 -2.8 0 13 Pitts 14 0 0 1.0 
1 Tyler Bolli WR 6-4 200 so 
BRIGHAM YOUNG 

2 Tyrone Marshall DB 6-0 190 JR LAVELL EDWARDS 3 Jack Damuni DB 6-0 190 SR 13-12,W
at Hawaii 

Bill Hansen K 5-11 190 JR Greg Steele DB 5-11 175 FR at Air Force 45-21, W Tony Hicks RB 6-0 220 FR 
23rd season at Brigham Young 
COLORADO STATE 21-28, L

John Walsh QB 6-4 215 JR 
Shane Barlow QB 6-1 185 FR Career Record at BYU: 202-74-3 Alan Boardman p 5-11 185 so Dennis Simmons LB 6-3 225 so 
Against Notre Dame: 0-2 
Jim Freeland LB 6-5 235 JR Bryce Doman WR 6-1 190 SR 
Highlights: Became only the 14th 
Steve Clements QB 6-2 200 SR 
T.J. Brinkerhoff QB 180 Division I-A head coach to reach the
6-1 FR Jon Pollock DB 6-2 195 JR Tom Young QB 6-2 190 SR 
200-victory plateau with a win over New 
HemaHeimuli RB 6-2 210 JR DB 6-1 195 JR 
Mexico on September 24. 
DB 6-0 190 SR DB 5-10 175 FR David Lauder K 6-2 210 SR Dermmell Reed DB 5-9 170 JR Cade Schaerrer K 6-2 195 so Chad Knowles RB 6-2 210 SR RB 6-0 215 FR DB 5-11 190 FR RB 6-0 195 so RB 6-3 210 FR RB 6-0 220 FR 
LAST TIME RECORDS
Mark Hadfield DB 5-11 190 SR Jamal Willis RB 6-3 220 SR Abdullah Mills RB 5-7 180 so Patrick Mitchell DB 6-0 160 SR Dewayne Nobles DB 5-6 150 Notre Dame 45 ND leads 2-0 Scott Merkley DB 6-0 195 
Brigham Young 20 Last ND win
Tefua Bloomfield RB 6-0 200 DB 6-0 210 RB 5-8 215 
45-20, 1993 
DE 6-3 240 

DB 6-0 185 Mike Miller (right) caught Last BYU win RB 6-1 205 
a pair of touchdown passes none
Dustin Johnson RB 6-3 215 DB 5-11 185 
as the Irish rolled up 535 Streak 2 by ND
Josh Lowe LB 6-3 225 Brian Hughes DE 6-3 240 
6-2 yards in total offense to At Notre Dame Stadium
Tim Nowatzke WR 200 LB 6-2 200 LB 6-4 225 JR 
demolish the Cougars. The Irish won their only 
T. D. Biegel RB 5-9 220 JR 
home game against BYU,
Shay Muirbrook LB 6-0 220 so Scott Albrecht LB 6-3 235 JR 
42-16. in 1992. "" 

John Moeaki LB 6-2 235 so 
Jeff Ellis LB 6-1 220 FR LB 6-0 255 JR LB 6-1 225 FR LB 6-3 265 FR DT 6-0 285 JR LB 6-5 235 FR DE 6-6 245 SR 
Elias Faupula OG 6-3 275 JR James Johnson OT 6-6 280 so Jason Ball OG 6-4 275 SR 
--·--li 
c 6-4 220 JR OG 6-2 265 SR ,. OT 6-6 250 FR 

c 6-4 265 SR 11-Bryce Doman, 6-rt:, 190, SR li,. -~ 97-Randy Brock, 6-6, 250, SR OT 6-5 300 JR ,,
84-Mike Johnston, 5-11, 180, JR L' . , 55-Brian Hughes,.6-3, 240, SR
OG 6-5 290 SR ;;
c 6-3 260 JR 42-Tim Nowatzke, &2,200, SA· 98-Mike Ulufale, 6-5, 275, JR 
OG 6-5 345 so 

OL 6-4 260 FR 80-Kaipo McGuire, !).!10, 175, SO 91-Ed Kehl, 6-5, 265, FR 
OT 6-4 240 FR 96-Chad Lewis, 6·6,i210, SO · 51-John Raass, 6-G, 285, JR DE 6-4 260 JR 
lssiah Magalei DE 6-3 250 FR 95-ltula Mili, 6·4, 21 0~. SO 99-Greg Pitts, 6-4, 280, SR Eli Herring OT 6-8 335 SR 76-Eii Herring, 6·8, 385, SR 56-Travis Hall, 6-6, 245, SR
Brian Kenitzer OL 6-5 255 FR 
William Knight OG 6-8 350 JR 69-Matt Meservey, s.:s, 300, JR. 75-Matt Redden, 6-4,260, JR .· Tim Hanshaw OG 6-5 285 SR 
70-Evan Pilgrim, &-$; 290, SR 50-Stan Raass, 6·0, 225, JR
OL 6-2 265 JR 

Jason Andersen OT 6-5 305 so 65-Nathan Gibbs, 6-2;. 265, SR • • 47-Scott Albrecht, 6-3, 235, JR Soren Halladay WR 6-0 175 FR Kaipo McGuire WR 5-10 175 so 
68-Jim Edwards, &4, 265, SR Ml.iB' 46-S. Muirbrook, s-o, 220, so Jason Cooper WR 6-0 180 JR 71-Morris Unutoa, 6-$, 260, JR · 48-John Moeaki, 6-0; 235, SO 
Kurt Niepraschk TE 6-3 215 FR Mike Johnston WR 5-11 180 JR 78-Tim Hanshaw, &51285, SR;! 10-J. Freeland, 6·5, 235, JR Tyler Jackson WR 5-10 160 FR 77-William Knight, s..a:, 350, JR 9-Dennis Simmons, 6-3, 225, SO 
Steve Sutherland TE 6-3 215 FR 
59-J.·Johnson, 6-6, 280~ SO ;i 19-Dermell Reed, 5-9,-170, JR
WR 5-10 160 so DE 6-3 215 

so 57-Elias Faupula, 6~1275, JR ;: 5-Greg Steele, 5-11, 175, FR
DT 6-3 265 FR 

DL 6-4 280 so 7-John Walsh, 6-4, IllS, JR ii 13-Jon Pollock, 6·2, 195, JR 
DT 6-5 255 SR 

12-Steve Clements, &2, 200, Sf} 27-Jamie Cook, 6-1, 195, JR
DE 6-5 265 FR 

DT 6-3 265 FR 29-Jamal Willis, 6·3) :220, SR · 17-Corey Cook, 6-G, 195, SR TE 215 so 
TE 245 JR 34-Tefua Bloomfield, &6, 200, Fll 25-Lane Hale, 6-0, 185, SO TE so 15-Hema.Heimuli, &-. 210, JR 
30-Pat Mitchell, 6-Q, 160, SR 
TE so 

22-MarkAtuaia, 6·0, rt95, SO
DE SR ' . 18-James Heggins, 5-9, 175, SO 


page 3 The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October 14, 1994 
COUGARS ON THE OFFENSIVE. 
Irish hope to halt BYU's aerial assault 
By TIM SHERMAN St and the first three quarters against Purdue Assistant Spons Editor and Stanford, the defense has been dominant. On other occasions, particularly the third quar­They are the poster boys for the wild and ter at Boston College, it has been downright gen­
wacky WAC. erous. They are annually among the nation's leader in Which one will take the field tomorrow. more than a few offensive categories. Whatever one it is, the defense must stop the They have quarterbacks who throw for more run. Yes, the run. touchdowns than they have wives. Although BYU is known for its' prolific passing They are the Cougars of Brigham Young. attack, the success of the Irish defense has rest­
"As far as BYU is concerned, this is the same ed upon their ability to stop the run. team you see year in and year out,"Irish coach All it takes is a quick look at the statistics to Lou Holtz said. "They are very productive.' see that Stanford threw for 360 yards, while B.C. 
In fact, they have produced an average of 472 struck for just 106. But that didn't tell the story. yards, which is good enough for seventh in the The Eagles rushed for four times as much nation. Almost 300 of those have come in the yardage as did the Cardinal (244 to 61) and 
air, mostly courtesy of John Walsh. scored all four of their touchdowns by foot. "He has very good arm strength," said Holtz. So, if it is going to come down to the run, who "He really throws the ball very, very well." has the edge? That means the Irish are going to have to On paper, the Cougars look to be strong, espe­defend very, very well. cially up front where it matters. So far, through six games, that has not been a "Their offensive line is very veteran," Holtz sure bet. · noted. "I think they average a little over 24 At times, namely the second half at Michigan years in age. and have four seniors." One of those seniors is Evan Pilgrim, the right guard. 
PLAYER TO WATCH. • .JOHN WALSH
"He has gotten off to a great start," Cougar coach LaVell Edwards said. "He has been partic­
He may not get the 
So far, his arm has ularly good at run-blocking." 
attention of quarter­been strong enough to Probably most appreciative of his talents is backs like Ron Powlus throw for over 1808 tailback Jamal Willis, The stat book shows why. and Eric Zeier, but to yards in his six out­Willis, a four-year starter, owns the BYU late night ESPN view­ings. Even Math 104 career record for touchdowns with 34 and ranks ers (you know who you graduates can figure fourth on the career rushing yards list. are), and to the Notre that out to be more 
This season, Willis has raced past admiring Dame defense, than 300 yards per WAC defenders with relative ease. Brigham Young quar­Walsh contest. 
After six contests, Willis has covered over six terback John Walsh is His efforts have not hundred yards on the ground, with nine touch­plenty well-known. been in vain, either, as he has downs. Deservedly so. tossed 14 touchdowns. More 
And like any Cougar, Willis knows how to catch Though it is not as glam­importantly, his arm has been the ball. As a matter of fact he has done so 18 orous a position as it is at the main factor in his team times thus far. Notre Dame and Miami, BYU winning five of its first six 
"They always have good wide receivers," Holtz has built a strong tradition of games. simply stated. "Tim Nowatzke and Bryce Doman great signal-callers. From Jim BYU quarterbacks always are fine receivers." McMahon (yes, amazingly the put up good numbers in the 
As always, Bobby Taylor will take one of the headbanded one spent four yardage and touchdown pass­two out of Edwards' game plan, but it is the sec­years in Utah) to the milk­es categories, but not neces­ond receiver or tight endwho is problematic. drinking Ty Detmer, who just sarily the win column. Walsh 
Chad Lewis (16 catches), though not in the happened to win the Reisman is on a mission, (no pun class of a Pete Mitchell ), is good enough to cause Trophy, Cougar quarterbacks intended) to change that. some problems for Bob Davies' crew. are annually among the Last season, the Cougars 
Many observers have been waiting for the nation's most productive. had fairly high expecations arrival of the famous "Wrecking Crew" that Walsh, a junior, has done entering their mid-season Davies led at Texas A+M. If there is a time for nothing to spoil that reputa­showdown with the Irish. such a unit to emerge, playing against a air-ori­tion. In fact, he may turn out Those dreams were essentially ented team is it. Despite their rushing success, to be, if he isn't already, better dashed early in the first quar­BYU is still very much fond of the air. than any of his preceeders. ter, as Walsh's leg was broken 
This will give guys like Bert Berry, Melvin "Walsh is an outstanding by a swarming Irish defense. Dansby, and Renaldo Wynn a chance to pin back quarterback," Irish coach Lou This season, Walsh is out to their ears and go after Walsh. Holtz said. "I know the pros break something of Notre 
Berry lead the team with five sacks and should think that he is one of the best Dame's, Holtz' vow of a stingy figure to add to that total against a team that ranked quarterbacks. He has defense. goes to the air nearly 40 times per game. very, very good arm strength." -TIMSHERMAN 



28 
Don't Look past Brigham Young. They might ride on the coattails ofBC's victory right to one of their own. What a coup that would be. 
Quarterback 5 John Walsh walks into South Bend averaging over 300 yards passing, including 14 touchdowns. 
Running Back 4 This is the third year in a row Jamal Willis will play against the Irish. He averages over 1 00 yards per game. Hema Heimuli has done a superb job at fullback. 
Wide Receiver 3 With deceptive speed and great hands, this is the unit for the Cougars that can spell doom for Notre Dame. 
Offensive Line 4 BYU will start four seniors on the offensive line. They have the potential to look All-World agaisnt a pathetic Irish defensive line. 
Defensive Line 3 Run defense leaves something to be desired, but Travis Hall is a terrific pass rusher. Look out, Ron Powlus. 
• RATING THE COUGARS 

Linebackers 2 Shay Muirbrook leads an otherwise inexperienced Cougar linebacking core. 
Secondary 2 BYU's defensive backs give up almost 300 yards throw­ing per game. This is a chance for Powlus and his receivers to get back on track. 
Special Teams 2 Cougar kicker Davia Lauder loses his range at at about 40 yards, which is about as far as Alan Boardman can punt the ball. 
Coaching 3 Lavell Edwards has 202 career victories, five more than Lou Holtz. But a team that goes 8-4 or 7-5 is considered average in the WAC. Edwards also has a hard time get­ting a win over an independent team like Notre Dame on the road. 
-MIKE NORBUT 
t t _, • 

...----------­
~-'' 
page 5 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October 14, 1994 

FIGHTING IRISH 
Opp NO PASSING Comp AH Pet Yds TO lnt Lg Zellars 2 o o-o 123 126 Powlus 68 130 52.3 966 12 6 47 Cengia 0 o o-o 1997 2382 Krug2 2 100 15 0 8 FIELD GOALS G-29 ao-39 40-49 50+ Tot 
332.8 397.0 Schroffner 3-4 2-2 o-o o-o 5-6 437 398 RECEIVING Rec Yds Avg TO Lg Cengia 0-0 2-3 ,_, 0-0 3-4 
4.57 5.98 Mayes 23 382 16.6 5 46 813 1401 Miller 17 276 16.2 2 47 PUNTING No Avg Bk Lg 
135.5 233.5 Stafford 10 129 12.9 3 23 Ford25 39,3 0 61 
251 266 Zellars 7 78 11.1 1 21 1184 981 Mosley 4 43 10.8 0 15 KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO Lg 
197.3 163.5 Edwards 3 13 4.3 0 8 Miller 11 22.2 0 55 116 70 186 132 ALL-PURPOSE Rush Rae Ret Tot Avg PUNT RETURNS No Avg TO Lg 
4 6 Miller 33 276 298 607 101,2 Miller 10 5.4 0 12 17/8 12/7 Zellars 359 78 59 496 99,2 33-281 34-275 Kinder 538 0 0 538 89.7 INTERCEPTIONS No Yds TO Lg Becton 182 22 0 204 68.0
27-86 27-69 Taylor 1 38 0 38 I
31A 39.1 Davis 1 11 0 11 8-11 4-6 Mosley 81 43 22 146 29.2 Wooden 1 7 0 7 Edwards 141 13 0 154 25.7 
Mayes 0 382 0 382 63.7 
Sample 1 0 0 0 
I 
1 2 3 4 T 

Stafford 0 129 10 139 23.2 13 37 24 53 127 Farmer 69 15 49 133 22.2 DEFENSE T A Tot FR PBU Sec 
~ 
23 47 58 43 171 Goheen 30 13 43 1 3 3.0 SCORING TO 2XP 1XP FG Set Pis 
Magee 32 10 42 0 2 0.0 Schroffner 0 0 19-19 5 0 34
Yds/Gm No Yds Avg TO Lg Sample 26 12 38 0 0 2.0 
89.7 81 538 6.6 3 37 Mayes 5 1 o-o 0 0 32 Grasmanis 18 14 32 0 0 2.5 7L8 46 359 7.8 1 62 Gibson 20 10 30 , 0
Becton 3 0 0-0 0 0 18 LO 
60.7 35 182 5.2 2 37 Kinder 3 0 0-0 0 0 18 Wynn 19 11 30 0 1 LO Stafford 3 0 0-0 0 0 18
23.5 22 141 6.4 2 25 Taylor 20 9 29 0 4 0.0 
16.2 13 6,2 0 18 Edwards 2 0 0-0 0 0 12 Nau 9 28 0 0 3.0 Miller 2 0 0-0 0 0 12
17 0 22 Wooden 4 27 1 6 o.o 0 44 11 24 2 1 2.0 
THE STARS • • • 
Pos. Ht. Wt. YR WR 6-1 205 JR

LOU HOLTZ 
s 5-11 196 SR Dan Farrell WR 6-Q 166 SR Rob Powlus QB 6-4 218 so Lee Becton RB 6-0 191 SRNinth season at Notre Dame Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 179 so Mike Miller WR 5-7 160 SR
Career Record at ND: 81-21-1 QB 5-9 FR
Leon Blunt 173 Ivory Covington DB 5-11 160 FR

Against Brigham Young: 2-0 
LaRon Moore CB 5-9 193 SR Mike Perona QB 6-1 186 so

Highlights: Won the 1988 national 
Larry Wright ATH 5-11 190 FR Tom Krug QB 6-5 199 so

championship and finished second in 
Gus Ornstein QB 6-5 210 FR Scott Cengia K 5-9 167 FRboth 1989 and 1993. p 193 so
Brian Ford 6-4 

NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
Opened in 1930 Capacity 59,075 Largest Crowd 61,296 Surface Natural Grass Irish at home 241-68-5 
-=.·._..;_·;·-:--::..'... 

.....· --0~ FF ERN·E-~--~~~·-----,--.ISH ,
1 

8o-oscar McBride, 6·5, 271, sR 
88-Leon Wallace. 6-3, 275, JR · 76-Jeremy Akers, 6--4,296, JR. 69-David Quist, 6-4,289, JR 73-Ryan Leahy, 6·3, ~90, SR 64-Steve Misetic, 6-4, 291, JR 
QB 3-Ron Powlus, 6-2,217, SO 11-Thomas Krug, 6-4, 200, SO 
c 
67-Mark Zataveski, 6-5, 300, SR 57-Rick Kaczenski, 6-4, 251, SO G 77-Dusty Zeigler, 6·5, 264, JR 62-Mike McCullough, 6-3, 295,JR T 70-Mike McGlinn, 6-5, 297, SR 75-Ghris dlevenger, 6-7, 250, SO FL 6-Mike Miller, 5-6, 159, SR 83-Scott Sollmann, 5-8, 165, SO· SE 1-Derrick Mayes, 6-0, 199, JR 24-Charles Stafford, 5-9, 187, SR TB 25-Randy Kinder, 6-0,207, SO 5-Emmett Mosley, 5-9, 179, SO FB 
1$ FENSE 
:, ' I 
·I
II I 

1 i( 
· 'M 1 
•r-.I 

--/ ')C 
lie 
John Bishop CB 6-0 171 so Paul Rogers QB 6-1 204 so Allen Rossum DB 5-9 175 FR Brian Perry s 6-1 197 so Mark McKenna QB 5-10 188 so Brian Magee s 5-10 201 JR Anthony Swiney CB 5-11 180 so Malcom Johnson WR 6-5 193 FR Bobby Taylor CB 6-3 201 JR Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 183 SR Charles Stafford WR 5-10 183 SR Randy Kinder RB 6-1 200 so Mark Monahan s 6-0 178 JR Tracy Graham CB 5-10 190 SR Ken Barry RB 6-1 195 FR Brian Meter CB 5-7 152 SR Jarvis Edison DB 6-5 210 FR Robert Farmer RB 6-1 210 so Clement Stokes RB 6-0 200 FR John McLaughlin DB 6-4 225 FR Ray Zellars RB 5-11 221 SR Richard Rolle WR 6-1 159 FR Jeremy Sample LB 5-11 223 SR Travis Davis s 6-0 197 SR Sim Stokes CB 6-2 191 so Kinnon Tatum LB 6-1 209 so Kevin Carretta LB 6-1 227 JR Joe Sabey LB 6-2 225 JR Alton Maiden LB 6-4 248 SR Bill Wagasy LB 6-2 228 JR Marc Edwards RB 6-2 221 so Jeff Kilburg DE 6-4 258 so Bill Mitoulas LB 6-0 210 FR Renaldo Wynn LB 6-3 254 JR Lyron Cobbins LB 6-2 230 so Greg Stec c 6-2 265 SR Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 245 so Germaine Holden DE 6-4 252 SR Jim Kordas OG 6-5 269 SR Justin Goheen LB 6-2 228 SR Oliver Gibson NG 6-3 275 SR Steve Armbruster c 6-0 220 SR Rick Kaczenski c 6-4 251 so Jeremy Nau LB 6-4 226 SR Jon Bergman LB 6-1 220 SR Bert Berry LB 6-4 221 so Jeff Kramer LB 6-3 215 FR Mike McCullough OG 6-3 295 JR 

90-Brian Hamilton, 6-3, 288, Mike O'Donovan LB 6-2 210 SR 
Steve Misetic OG 6-5 280 JR

51-Melvin Dansby,16-4, 245, SO 
Brett Galley LB 5-9 188 so 

NG 55-0liver Gibson16·2, 275, SR Kurt Belisle LB 6-3 220 FR 
Mark Zataveski c 6-6 300 SR

42-Aiton Maiden, 6-2, 259, JR Paul Mickelbart 6-4 FR
OL 265 David Quist OT 6-5 264 JR

T 93-Paul Grasmanis, e-3, 286, JR 
Mike McGlinn OT 6-6 285 SR

52-Germaine Holden, 6-3, 271, SR Herb Gibson OT 6-5 309 SR 
Ryan Leahy OG 6-4 285 SR

OLB 58-Jeremy Nau, 6·4, 233, SR 
Mike Doughty OT 6-8 280 so

2-LeShane Saddler, 5-11, 196, SR Will Lyell c 6-5 274 JR Chris Clevenger OT 6-7 250 so
ILB 54-Justin Goheen, 6·3, 235, SR 
Jeremy Akers OT 6-5 286 SR 

49-Lyron Cobbins, 6-0, 234, SO Dusty Zeigler OG 6-6 264 JR 
Jon Spickelmier OL 6-4 250 FR

ILB 36-Jeremy Sample, 5-11,229, SR 
Damian Peter OL 6-7 295 FR 

39-Kinnon Tatum, 5-11, 214, SO Oscar McBride TE 6-5 258 SR 
John Lynch WR 6-2 168 JR

OLB 48-Renaldo Wynn, 6·3, 244, JR Joe Carrol 5-10 SR
WR 182 Mike Denvir TE 6-3 231 so

60-Bert Berry, 6-4, 221, SO 
Dan McConnell WR 5-10 178 JR

CB 22-Shawn Wooden, 5·10, 190, SR Ben Herrig WR 5-10 168 JR 
Ben Foos DE 6-4 244 JR

8-lvory Covington, 5-11, 160, FR 
Cikai Champion WR 5-11 176 so

SS 37-Travis Davis, e-o, 198, SR Leon Wallace TE 6-3 275 JR 
Ty Goode WR 6-1 173 FR

9-LaRon Moore, 5-9, 193, SR 
Brian Hamilton DE 6-3 276 SR 

FS 17-Brian Magee, 5-9,204, JR DameiiSmith DE 6-5 265 so 
Luke Petitgout TE 6-7 260 FR

27-Tracy Graham, 5-10, 190, SA 
Paul Grasmanis NG 6-3 277 JR 
94 Reggie Fleurima NG 6-3 266 SR 
95 Corey Bennett LB 6-2 205 FR 

CB 21-BobbyTaylor, 6·3, 214, JR 
15-AIIen Aossum, 5·9, 175, FA 
96 Stefan Schroffner K 5-9 164 SR 

97 Corey Redder LB 6-2 215 FR 98 Pete Chryplewicz TE 6-5 255 JR 99 Cliff Stroud DE 6-3 274 JR 




__..,~~----~--------------~----------~­
~day, Octobe< 14, 1994 


j -Zataveski 
I continued from pagel 
I 
But Zataveski suddenly sprawled into view, stretchedI to the fingertips, 300 pounds 
parallel to the turf. 
A split second before the ball crossed the plane of the goal line, he nudged it back into play and a teammate fell on it. Boston College ball at the one­yard line. 
"Not bad for a 300-pound offensive lineman," Zataveski said. "I got some air.'~ 
That play, more than any other in his four years at Notre Dame, defined Mark Zataveski. 
Most of what he does is obscured by his position. Centers are seldom the center of attention. 
But for those few moments, it was as though he was alone on the AstroTurf, with no glamour guys to steal the spolight. Just Zataveski and the unreachable football that he, of all people, managed to reach. 
That's why he's on the field for every Notre Dame offensive play. That's why he's the long snapper on special teams. 
Not because he's quick. Not because he has has remark­able talent. 
It's because he will throw every ounce of himself onto the turf to reach the unreachable. 
"Is he as good as (former Irish centers) Tim Grunhard, Mike Heldt, Gene McGuire, Tim Ruddy?" Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz asked. "Not physical­ly. But he embodies everything you could ever ask for in a football player. You just can't say anything bad about Mark Zataveski." 
W
alter Zataveski has worked in the same eastern Pennsylvania plant for 30 years. In younger days, he and his wife Maryanne had to scrounge for quarters just to put gas in the car. 
They labored to provide a better life for themselves and for their children. They labor still to maintain the life that they built. 
And their son Mark labors every day, on and off the field, acting em the inspiration of his parents. Inspiration that has become instinct. 
"My parents taught me the value of working for things," Zataveski said. "They've worked for everything they've gotten. They're all-out type of people and that sets something off in you. They really instilled that attitude in me." 
It's an attitude that will make it possible for him to graduate this May with a double degree in American Studies and History, and still manage to be the one constant in an ever­changing offensive line. 
He has those days, just like anyone else, days when he'd rather sleep than study, or watch a little TV instead of doing base blocks. 
But he just remembers what Mom and Dad have done, and a few extra sprints don't seem so bad. 
That's why he's always the first and last on the practice field. That's why he always plays on Saturdays. 

"''ll tell Coach Holtz or any­one, I'm the hardest-working player he has," Zataveski said. "I may not be as gifted athleti­cally, but there's nobody who will work harder than I do." 
L
ittle Johnny threw his pencil in school one day. Zataveski, Mr. Zataveski to his 7th grade social studies class, devised a punishment. 
He made Little Johnny drop his pencil on the floor over and over again, and say 'I will not throw my pencil in school,' each time he bent over to pick it up. 
That's a technique not unlike those used by offensive line coach Joe Moore, old-time punishments that Zataveski has become intimately familiar with. 
He began subbing at a Catholic grade school near his hometown of Roslyn, Pa. last May after classes ended at Notre Dame. 
When the teacher he filled in for had to miss the rest of year for personal reasons, it became Zataveski's class. 
And he brought a bit of the foGtball field to the classroom. 
"(Coach Moore) has definitely rubbed off on me," Zataveski said. "I use some of the things he does, but maybe not to the same extent." 
Teaching offers perspective. 
It will one day be his profes­sion, a fact he's more sure about than ever, now that he's had a class of his own. 
It's with that future in mind that he approaches ~very day. Football sometimes consumes his every thought, but eventu­ally reality creeps back into his cranium. 
Football is important, but it's not life and death. Whatever rewards the game has given him, Zataveski seems most concerned about passing on his experience in the classroom. 
"There's one analogy from a coach back home that I couldn't agree with more," Zataveski said. "Hold a dime up to the sun. The dime is foot­ball. The sun is life. In the back of my head, I always know that football is just a stepping-stone to the future." 
S 
till, anxiety about football 
always gnaws at his gut. 
Zataveski spends his Sundays reviewing in his mind all the good plays and all the bad plays, especially the bad plays, he made in Saturday's game. 
Monday he's practicing again, the next week's game on his mind. 
The bigger the game, the more intense, the more anx­ious he becomes. 
"They say you should leave your work at the office, but I have a hard time doing that," Zataveski said. "Sometimes it weighs pretty heavy on you, but I guess it's just part of the all-out attitude that I have." 
When you give so much of yourself to the game, when you're fueled with such a pas­sion to succeed, emotions become magnified. 
Zataveski probably doesn't know what 'ambivalent' means. 
But he knows all about atti­tude. That's what keeps him going during troubled times. 
"There are days when I come home from practice, and I hate football," Zataveski admitted. "But the good days outweigh the bad, and there are many more good ones to come.'' 
ATTENTION ALL WING LOVERS! 
Darts 
Video Games 

Big Screen T.V.s 
~TlllLIL IHill~llN~ 
Dish Servers 
Flexible Hours Good Wages 
J©fiffil [lffi(Q Wfi~~~ IE[([!Q 
)T(Q~ffiffi ~ 
-
--------. 
The Observer/John Bingham Center Mark Zataveski has been a constant on an ever-changing offensive line. 

Weeki 



Specia 
s 
Monday Night 

~~~ wn~ 
&discounted beverages 
Thursday NightFeast for Four 
$n7f®Bi 
50 Wings Curly Fries &pitcher of favorite beverage 

AsK AsouT OuR WALL OF FLAME 
UniversitY Center 6502 N. Grape Rd. Phone 273-0088 
page 7 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October 14, 1994 
Bouncing ­
After a dismal start, Lee Becton hopes to move

Back 
forward 

ee Bection against the Eagles. It 
was in the By was not Becton's 
last place George Dohrmann running ability the he should have Irish needed but his been during the receiving skills out of fourth quarter of Notre Dame's the backfield. Quarterback Ron 30-11 loss to Boston College last Powlus managed only 51 yards Saturday. on 5-of-21 passing. Notre 
The senior running back, one Dame's quarterback seemed an of four team captains, was at a option short all game, and his friend's house watching the usual safety valve sat restless on game on television. He sat on a couch back at Notre Dame. couch and watched as the Notre Those are facts Becton put Dame offense sputtered and the behind him as he began prac­seniors' dreams of a national tieing again this week. The in­title sank into Boston Harbor. jury still causes him some dis­
"I felt really bad," Becton said, comfort, enough that Holtz was "Being back in South Bend and unsure after Wednesday's prac­not being able to do my share. It tice if he would be available hurt." Saturday. 
It has been a season of hurt "It feels pretty good," Becton for Bection who, because of a said. ''I'm just want to play." groin injury, is questionable for • • • tomorrow's contest with BYU at The phone rings at the Becton Notre Dame Stadium. home in Ernul, North Carolina. 
It began with a poor start in Lee's mother answers the phone the season opener against and is hardly surprised by the Northwestern and climaxed voice on the line. with Becton watching the Irish "I talked to my mom a lot dur­lose their second game of the ing the past couple weeks," season to the Eagles. Becton said. "I talk to my mom 
"It's been hard, " Becton said. and my friends and teammates. "Certainly not what I expected." Everyone has been really sup-What most expected was a portive and pushing me to get 
Heisman season from the six-healthy." 
BELOW: Becton went from

foot, 190 pound tailback. But Getting back on the field may ABOVE: Lee Becton's sea­
dodging tackles against 

the campaign stalled out of the be the only way Becton can son took a hit when he suf­
Boston College last season

gatJ:J..\Yhen Becton gained only _ l~ggin to reach. the standards he fered a groin injury against 
to watching this year's loss to

16 yards on ten carries against set for himself at the beginning Michigan State. 
the Eagles from a couch

Northwestern. of the season. That may be the 
South Bend. 

It was an auspicious begin-only way he can get rid of the ning, one Becton may have images of the fumbles against 
caused himself. Michigan and the fuzzy TV pic­
"I tried to do too much. All the tures he thinks about when his talk about the Heisman and teammates talk about Boston hype wasn't really a distraction, College. but you know, it got me away "There's no way I can forget from my style of play. the past," Becton said. "I just 
"There were times when I want to take each game sepa­think I made bad decisions." rately and get back into the 
Becton vowed to improve the game mentally." following week against Michi-But the motivation has gan, and in one sense he did. He changed for all the seniors as was Notre Dame's leading rush-national title hopes faded with er with 76 yards on 13 carries, the Boston College loss. For but his performance was over-Becton there are personal aspi­shadowed by two fumbles which rations -a job in the NFL, a few twice halted Irish drives and 100-yard games -but at this resulted in points for the point they are distant. Wolverines. ''I'm not focusing on me," 
A lasting image of the game Becton said. "You think about was Becton on the sideline, hel-things like winning a bowl game met in hand after coach Lou and finishing 10-2. I'm just Holtz pulled him from the game focusing on helping the team for a few series. win the rest of our games." 
After the game, a despondent In Becton's place, sophomore Becton had little to say. Randy Kinder has shined, total­
"I wasn't holding the ball any ing over 100-yards against differently. I don't know what Michigan State, Purdue, Stan­happened." ford and Boston College. There 
What had happened was is an urgency for Becton to get uncanny. Not in 164 carries last back, to show that he can still year did he ever let the ball hit carry the load as he did in 1993. the turf. It was strange for Irish "I know Lee feels good when fans and strange for Becton, he's standing there and doesn't who blamed the loss on himself. have that pain. But the way Lee 
"Lee feels pretty down right runs and the body control, now," senior linebacker Jeremy etceteras, he is just not -he Nau said after the 26-24 loss. doesn't even look half speed to "He feels like he cost us the me at the present time," Lou game. But Lee has won a lot of Holtz said. "He says he feels games for us in the past and he much better, but it is still not will win some games for us in real solid." the future." But Becton is ready to go even 
He's yet to get the chance. if he is not at 100-percent. 
The next week against Michi-"I don't think I have anything gan State, Becton suffered the to prove to myself, but I want to groin injury which forced him to show my teammates that I can miss the last three games. be counted on," he said. "I just His absence showed the most want to go out an get a victory." 

., , 
~-~------­
~~i&y, Oo=~· 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
~ ___ II JOCK STRIP 
The 12--step road to recovery 
PREV­

TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS
starts with an Irish wake 
I
f Florida loses to Auburn and Florida 
to victory. That's easy when it is No. 1 
1. Florida (44) 5-0-0 1527 1 State, Nebraska to Kansas and vs No.2, Florida St. vs. Notre Dame. It 
2. Nebraska (12) 6-0-0 1461 2 
Colorado, Penn State to ... may be different when it is No. 17 vs. 
3. Penn St. (2) 5-0-0 1427 4
Enough is enough. It's time to get others receiving votes, the Irish vs. the past the denial stage. The next step on Cougars. But if we are such "big fans", 4. Colorado(4) 5-0-0 1410 5 the twelve-game (I mean, step) road to then this is the time to show it. 5. Michigan 4-1-0 1251 7 recovery is acceptance that we have a The other thing the Irish celebrate at 
6. Auburn 6-0-0 1193 9
their wakes is what the person did dur­Notre Dame's annual national cham­Tim Sherman ing their life. 
problem. 
7. TexasA&M 5-0-0 1106 10 
pionship hopes for 1994 put one foot in Assistant This program has done an awful lot of 
8. Miami 4-1-0 1104 13 
the grave on September 10 against Sports Editor great things. Unbelievable things. You 
9. Washington 4-1-0 1072 12
Michigan. Last Saturday, the Irish know the litany -more national champi­
jumped head first into the casket and pulled the onships (11), Reisman Trophy winners (7), and 10.Aiabama 6-0-0 1022 11 top down. The Eagles were giddy with the All-Americans (too many for me to take the time 
11 . Florida St. 4-1-0 1009 3 
chance to put the proverbial nails in the coffin. to count) than any other school. 
12. Texas 4-1-0 785 15
So now, with the hopes of a twelfth national The point being is that the tradition of excel­
13. Colorado St. 6-0-0 747 23
title dead and buried, what are we, as Irish fans, lence (not necessarily perfection) will always be to do. here. Even in our darkest days we have more to 14. Arizona 4-1-0 709 6 I say we give the #1 aspirations a wake. No, be thankful for than most schools. For God's 
15. N. Carolina 4-1-0 696 14 
not a mournful event filled with tears and sake, even Gerry Faust did some good. He 
16. Kansas St. 4-0-0 555 19
laments, but one of a celebratory event. An Irish recruited Tim Brown. wake. So even with our title hopes dashed and the 17. Notre Dame 4-2-0 540 8 odds of a Reisman long (sorry all you premature 
18. Syracuse 5-1-0 461 21 
You see, at a true Irish wake, there is not a lot 2 or 3 trophy predictors, that means you Beano, 
19. Virginia Tech 5-1-0 449 20
see Michigan St. and B.C.), we still have two brating. Celebration of both the chance for legitimate All-American candidates in Bobby 20. Washington St. 4-1-0 407 22 everyone to come together and of what the per­of crying. There is, however, a lot of cele­
Taylor and Derrick Mayes. They need, and 
21. Utah 5-0-0 214 25 
son that is being waked had accomplished in deserve, our undying support. 
22. Oklahoma 3-2-0 202 16
his/her life. Here at Notre Dame, we have a lot to cele­
Sure, the participant at an Irish wake does : 23. Wisconsin 3-2-0 183 24 brate. 
have plenty of hurt inside, just like we do now. 
24. Boston College 2-2-0 113
But they realize they can't do anything about it. 
Our football games are not merely 60 minutes 
25. Duke 5-0-0 110
What's passed is past. ·of two teams of eleven slugging it out on the hal­
-~-CJM
Maybe we should just understand that this Rather, our games are an event. season is our year in purgatory. Maybe this is Ill SPORTS EXTRA STAFF 
A celebration in it of themselves of the Notre our time of penance for our insistent type-A atti­Dame spirit. As hard as it may be, we can't let tude of "win, win, win, No. 1,No. 1,No. 1). If this EDITOR: George Dohrmann disappointment, no matter how great, tarnish is the case, we should just just sit back and MANAGING EDTIOR: Jason Kelly 
this. 
lowed turf of the House that Rockne built. 
make the best of it (read, win or lose, we love 
ASSOCIATE EDITOR: Mike Norbut 
the booze, if you like). 
Many of us (myself included) profess to be part 
CONTRIBUTORS: Tim Sherman, Andy Cabiness 
But if this is our year in purgatory, then our ally supporting and cheering our team onward time in heaven will come. 1995 sounds good. GRAPHIC DESIGN: Chris Mullins of the nation's best student body in terms of loy­
Papa Predicts: 
~.Dame XI
11
~t 

mYoung 10 
r -Ga;;o;; s;;ci:i -, r -NiitY Nifle1ilti -, r -7at':NiUM s;;ci:i -, .r --o-;; t"'fr L"';g;--,
HOURS: 
I 1-1411 Large I I 1-1611 Extra Large I I (9:00p.m. until closing) I I One Topping I
$695

Monday-Thurnday 11 :00 am. -1:00 a.m. 
I 1Topping Pizza I I Two Toppings I I 1-1411 Large I I I with 2cans of Coke I I I I I I
I and Breadsticks $g50 1Topping Pizza Two 14" Large I
Friday &Saturday 11 :00 a.m. -3:00 am. 
I I I I I I I One Topping I
s 

Sunday Noon -1:00 a.m. 
I s10~0 I I ·• I I 59.~ I I s11 9~ I
_______.... ._. _______... _______... _______.. 
Addftional Toppings 95c each. Not valid with any other coupon. I I 'dditional Toppings $1.25 each. Not valid with any other coupon. I '-Additional Toppings 95c each. Not valid with any other coupon. I LAdditional Toppings 95c each. Not valid with any other coupon. I 
-
L 
..... -·~ --·-~ 

Friday, October 14, 1994 The Observer-WEEKEND page 15 
..-.. :
Riehle nurtures 'Spirit of the Irish' 
By CHRISTI FREDERICK Accent Writer 
The room falls silent. About eighty of the biggest men on campus get down on one knee as one man moves to the cen­ter of the locker room. The players tremble with anticipation for the game, but the words they are waiting to hear don't come from head coach Lou Holtz. Instead they come from another tradi­tion of the Fighting Irish, Reverend James L. Riehle, chaplain for the de­partment of athletics. 
Not standing tall-he's only about the size of Holtz-but standing proud, Riehle says the first part of the Hail Mary and the players respond with the second part. The team is now ready for the day's game. 
Riehle came to Notre Dame as a stu­dent in 1946, but events at home pulled him from school back to Pittsburgh, where his family was living at the time. 
He returned again in 1956 and decid­ed to join the priesthood. "I was 32 years old at the time," Riehle recalls. 
From that time on, Riehle held numerous positions at the University including director of Sorin, dean of stu­dents, and rector of Pangborn. "I was rector of Pangborn for 12 years. but I lived there for 18 years," said Riehle. "I only left when they made it a women's dorm." 
Riehle has held the title of chaplain of the Athletic Department since 1977 and he's been executive director of the National Monogram Club since 1978. 
Considering himself semi-retired, Riehle's job is to coordinate the chap­lains for all other sports. But he still handles the football team exclusively, both home and away games. "For over the past ten years I've been doing it all myself," he says. "You get a certain amount of familiarity. The players get to know you, and they're comfortable with it." 
For Riehle, football Saturdays begin with a team mass at 11 o'clock in Alumni Hall for all the players. Knowing that the game is heavy on their minds, Riehle's masses do not last long. "It's as short as I can make it. I used to be known as the Pangborn Express when I was over there," he says with a smile. 
This mass is only part of the day's rit­uals for Riehle and the team. "I have a Relic of the True Cross and as the play­ers go out of the chapel. they kiss the Relic," he explains. "I also give them a different medal for each game," he adds. The medals are either of the Saint whose feast day is closest to game day or of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
Riehle is also on the sidelines of every Notre Dame football game. "I'm in the locker room when they come off the field for the last time before the game," he explains. "As they come up the steps everyone of them comes up and kneels down in front of me and I give them a blessing. I do that before the game, I do that at the end of the frrst half, and then I do it at the end of the game." 
Himself a part of the Notre Dame tra­dition Riehle finds the "Notre Dame mystique" quite simple. "There's a lot of traditions, but there's no myths, be­cause we work hard at the things we do," he explains. Riehle believes the special aura that surrounds Notre Dame comes from the dedication and ambition of everyone involved. "It's the same old story, the harder you work the luckier you are," he chuckles. "It means that hopefully everybody does the best they can at the things they do and that takes care of it," he adds. 
The chance to interact with the stu­
dent athletes and to watch their 
The Observer/Brendan Cendure 

Father James L. Riehle has been chaplain of the Notre Dame Athletic Department since 
1977. 

progress is Riehle's favorite aspect of the job. "I feel like I'm a part of it all, and I enjoy it," he says. "It really kind of chokes me up to see players get up and talk in front of 3000 people and not stutter," he said, referring to the play­ers speaking at the quarterback club luncheon. "It's good for them to be able to do something like that and it makes me feel really proud." 
But being chaplain for the football team isn't always an easy job. It comes with a lot of stress. An athlete all his life, Riehle can sympathize with the players struggles and he especially wor­ries when they get injured. "When I see one of the kids get hurt, it really bothers me," he says. 
Over his many years with the team, Riehle has seen a number of incredible wins as well as some devastating losses. "The frrst game I was ever Chaplain for was the 1966 Michigan State 10-10 tie ... which was a great game," Riehle says. 
"I've never been a person that high­lights things," says Riehle. "There's been a lot of great games." He explains that with each season and each team there is a uniqueness. "It's a credit to this place," he says. "It's just a special place. I still get excited when I hear the Victory March". 
Although he is almost 70 years old, Riehle doesn't let his age slow him down. He says his work keeps him young. "I'm not getting any older," he claims, "the kids are getting younger." 
But this is Riehle's first season after having open heart surgery last May. People often ask him how he can stand the pressure and stress of the games after having heart surgery. His answer 
-

is simple. "I never get excited. I just don't. That doesn't mean I don't get tense or upset, but I just don't get excit­ed." 
So Riehle doesn't worry about when he'll move from semi-retirement to full retirement. "I feel pretty good and I feel strong enough," he says. "If it's God's Will I'll continue. I've kind of left it up to Him." 
........
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, October 14, 1994 
~ With God's love, Catholicism can change with the times 
r 
-
·­
An obvious drawback to Whenever I hear it said endeavoring to turn man being a member of the that it isn't the two hundred into a beast, intimated that catholic Church is that the Father Robert Griffin Mass offered daily at Notre it is not life alone which young people, wanting to Dame that keep the place makes him a man." Man think for themselves, are '-'> '-'> r n r Catholic, I want to say, "Like should be forgiven a religion delivered, at the time they ~elfers fo a ~oneJtl .::::700 hell it isn't. Those Masses which he knows from face­are losing their baby teeth, J keep Notre Dame in touch to-face contact with the the $64,000 questions com-with its roots, as every sin-Deity that God is love. After plete with answers, bound ner knows." As Pe~uy used that primal insight, it's a up in a catechism which victions are more sacred to So far as I can see, it means to say, the sinner IS at the matter of working things pope's the guarantee. me than all the revealed that He loves the entire heart of Christianity. "No out-whether through litur­As shades of the pr.ison dogmas of the Catholic massa damnata, since as a one is as competent as the gy or ritual, or matters of house begin to close on the Church." Grudgingly, I Father, He desires not the sinner in matters of faith and morals. I do growing boy and girl, they admire the upstarts. "0 death of a sinner. As a vic­Christianity. No one, except believe that the Church is have God's Ten brave new a saint." here to stay. The English
tim of the Holocaust who
Commandments----------worldffhat has What Notre Dame needs historian Lord Macaulay
died early-as the Jewish 
and the 'The Nazis were such people in painter Marc Chagall now is more scholarly sin-wrote that the Roman Church's .Pre-saying to the it!" showed in his great canvas ners, of the kind who used Catholic Church "may still cepts umdmg ,, As a lapsed of the pogroms called "the to make the Catholic Church exist in undiminished vigorthem like the Jews: We have good their re_{ugium peccatorum. when some traveler from
W.A.S.P., I was White Crucifixion"-Jesus 
Burma Shave news and bad news. nineteen when I revealed the heart of His As Graham Greene says, if New Zealand shall, in the we had not been taught by midst of a vast solitude,
signs that used The good news is that joined the Abba when He prayed: 
to be seen on Church in 1944. the Church how to interpret make his stand on a broken
"Forgive them, for they
the highway. you're going to Paris. In 1944, the don't know what they are the Passion, would we be arch of London Bridge to What must I do The bad news is that world was up to doing. Did not the rabbis at able to say from their sketch the ruins of St. 
to be saved? , . , I"ts armpi"ts I·n Auschwitz show as much actions alone whether it was Paul's." Macauly, in my "Believe on the you re go1ng as soap. hate. The Nazis grace under pressure? the jealous Judas or the estimate, could be guilty of Lord Jesus were saying to Perhaps it is only secular­cowardly Peter who loved an understatement. Christ, and thou the Jews: "We have good minded Jews that believe Christ more? What pope shalt be saved," the Church news and bad news. The that after the death camps, G r a h a m can say that if answers as glibly as Jimmy good news is that you're there can be no forgiveness. Greene al.so 'What Notre the Church 
Lee Swaggert. What does He · t0 p · Th b d Believe it or not, young wrote this: exists until the 
save us from? From the con-~mng ans. e a news "Have you seen Dame needs end of time-as
IS that you're going as Catholics, your Church is the 
sequences of not knowing soap." A newspaper colum­Church of the long distance a .room. from now is more scholarly we have been that God is Love. nist, sickened by anti-runner because the Church which faith has . . promised that Do Catholics tend to reach Semitism, wrote of Jesus: exists to bear witness to the gone? ... Like a Sinners, of the kind it will-women puberty feeling that they're "They should have fed Him New Testament revelation marriage from who used to make the will not be being suffocated by grace? I to the lions. You can't make that God is love. Did you which love has Catholic Church their ordained to have no way of knowing, a religious symbol out of imagine that this was a gone... And serve as bish­
since I didn't grow up as a mince meat." pearl of truth that you could p a t i e n c e , refugium peccatorum.' ops and priests Catholic child. Now and For me, the Church's sav­discover on you own? "Love patience every-and even then, I hear the cris de coeur ing grace is that her defining has pitched his mansion where like a----------popes? As a 
from the Catholic rebels, insight comes from John in!fhe place of excrement" fog?" I have all kinds of Catholic romantic, I believe echoing James Joyce, writ-3:16, which says that God so -as theology, it's the high­patience with young that anything is possible in ing in the Observer: "I will loved the world that He gave water of the Last Supper. Catholics who feel that their the Church which is a show­
no longer serve that in His Son for the life of the Writing on the human condi­faith is gone. At their age, I case for God's Love incar­which I no longer believe world. Does the Gospel tion, Malraux said: "The was finding the faith that nate. whether it call itself my mean that He loves the Jew­genius of Christianity is to they have lost, but that was 
home, m~ fatherland, or my baiters, the Himmlers, and have proclaimed that the a different age of the world. This year marks Father 
church... Domers may sim-the Christians who hung path to the deepest mystery As someone has said, the Griffin's 25th year ofwriting ply say: "My personal con-Jews on the barbed wire? is the path of love." extermination camps, "in wiih The Observer. 
JACK CONNOR 
will appear at the 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
TODAY 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. 
llannnesNotreDameBookstore "On the Campus" Open 9 a.m.-7 p.m. Friday; 8 a.m. -7 p.m. Saturday 


-~-----------------­

Friday, October 14, 1994 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 1/ 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day &om 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and &om 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  2 FSU GA's  $$$$$NEED 2 NAVY GA'S FOR  Quality Copies, Quicklylll  
NOTICES  NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  Best Offer Kevin x1955  'LIL BROS. $$$$$$$$ CALL DANA AT X3829  FOR SALE: 2 NAVY GA'S  000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center  
NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  NEED: 3 FSU TICKETS  Phone 631-COPY  
USED BOOKS & CLIFF'S NOTES  OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­ Need 2-3 Air force GAs. Leslie 273­ FOR SALE: 3 BYU Stud. Tix  PLEASE HELP ME-KELLEY  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  773-2034  9303  289-9420  X3427!!!!!!  Established campus band with  
NO Ave & Howard M-Sat/10-6  guaranteed gigs needs lead gui­ 
Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store  BEAUTIFUL ROOMS W/PRIVATE  I need 2 GAs for Navy. Please call  2 Stud.Tix needed for BYU  GREG BRADY WANTS  tarist. Call Pick 277-2375  
BATHS FOR RENT FOR FOOT­ Kristine at 4-3806. Thank you  Call 273-6033  1 NAVY GA!!I CALL MARSHA  
Downtown book wholesaler seeks  BALL WKNDS. 3 MI. FROM CAM­ VERYMUCHI  AT 271-7780  Hey Chuck Diesel and Doughnuts  
warehouse workers Flexible hours  PUS. (219) 277-8340.  Will trade 2 Air Force GA' s for 2  what's going on girls???  
& wkend work available 232-8500  NEED 1 STUD. & 2 GA'S FOR AIR  BYU or Navy GA's. Call Barb at  ERIC CLAPTON Tickets!!  
X22 ask for Bryan  SUBLET efficiency apt for next  FORCE. CALL LOU @ 233-4008.  631-7668 before 5:00pm.  INDY 10-23-94. (6) EXCELLENT  I need a ride to NJ for break. Will  
sem. Call 233-4960 after 6 pm.  Floor Seats. Call Tim 291-4816  help w/ ALL expenses.  
PROFESSIONAL TYPING by  I need a stud tick or GA for AF  Desperately need 1 NAVY TICKET  -Elaine x2328.  
Angie. Special student rate: $1.25 per page. Resumes start at $9.  FOR SALE  II!I!Piease call Connie x36041111!  for my little brother. Please call Becky x2526.  TOP 10 REASONS TO PARTY IN  
Located one block west of IUSB.  Help! We need 2 BYU tickets­ WANTED: One GA or  2B SIEGFRIED...  
Call 237-0967.  Selling one-way plane ticket South  student or GAs and 2 NAVY GAs.  Need 1 Navy (GA or STUD.) tic for  Student Ticket  10 THE COOL SELECTION OF  
ILOST & FOUND I  Bend to Providence, Chris X1955. INDIGO GIRLS -INDIGO  Please call Kathleen at 4-3917. Siblings driving 14 hrs would love to  my little sis. CALL BRIAN X3526 NEEDED: GA's for NAVY.  for NAVY Call Norm @ 634-1023  ALTERNATIVE BEVERAGES (WHERE DID THE BUD LITE COME FROM ANYWAYS?)  
GIRLS  watch the game from inside the  Call Steve at 4-1909.  9 "DID YOU ASK ME IF I LIKED  
LOST STUDENT 1.0. NEAR GATE  "THE POWER OF TWO" T-shirts  Stadium!!  THE BEATLES?"  
15 ON SAT. 10/1. REWARD. CALL  Includes: Notre Dame, IN; 10/5/94  PLEASE SELL ME YOUR BYU  need 4 navy GAs, 2 air force GAs,  8 HE'S BIG DOG...THAT MAKES  
287-4546. THANK YOU.  Interested? Call 4-3011 for info.  GA'S/STUD. TIX! Mindy @4570  1 st. air force. help-Matt 4327  YOU HIS Bl --­ 
*****$50 REWARD*****  486 Tenex multimedia tower com­ I NEED 2 BYU GA's  Need 2 Navy GAs Call Tony at  NEED2 BYU will buy or  7 FLOW CHART-WHY ARE YOU LAUGHING-WHO IS MY DATE­ ,  
ror the RETURN of or information  puter & monitor. Loaded with many  Call Carolyn at 271-9669  634-4532.  TRADE2NAVY  I KNEW I'D GET HIM AND WHY  
f.,ading to the RETURN of two  windows programs. $1400 OBO  -Bryan  DOESN'T HE HAVE A NICKNAME  
CO's: Peart Jam and Nirvana "All  Laurie 291-4888  WANTED: 2 Air Force GA's  2 BYU STUD TICKETS 4 SALE  x1190  6 ITS OK IM DOING PHANTOM  
Acoustically". Please call 272­ 4-2628  X 1403  BODY SHOTS!  
4021.  For Sale-2 Billy Joel tickets  5 KT THERE IS A $25 FINE IF  
Oct. 19 in Chicago  Need BYU GA's. Call Erin @4015  I need 2 BYU student or GA tix  YOUR DATE CUTS HIS HAND  
I. ost a silver adjustable ring with  Call Meghan x3884  Please call Curtis-282-2197  NEED AF GA'S OR STUD TIX  4 LIME BOWLINGI  
mabie inscriptions on it. Great per­·:onal significance. Maybe lost in  BEAN OWNER  NEED NAVY GAs-CALL TJ@ 634-1290  I am selling 4 Navy GA'slll Call  X3098...................................~..  31TS 12 30 IM TIRED AND IM PUTTING MY PJS ON  
the vicinity of the library.  JAMISON INN PARTNERSHIP  Heather at 4-1337  2 CANT WAIT TO SEE THE RAN­ 
Contact Chris X-1868  SELLING A LIMITED  HELP!! I NEED 2 GA TICKETS  I know you don't need those 4 BYU  DOM 30 PICTURES I TOOK  
#OF MINI-SUITE CONDOMINI­ FOR BYU AND NAVY!! Call  WANTED 3 NAVY GA's URGENT­ GAs as much as my brother and his  1 MOST OF US MADE IT UNTIL 2  
Found: Bike-lock key  UMS $65,000-70,000  Monica at X4091.  LY Call John 4 4439  boss do; their love lives are on the  
October 12 9:00 pm  1 )Guaranteed Reservations  line!!! Please call Lisa  NEED a ride to IOWA for break?  
between Farley and NOH  2)Six nights free per year  $$$$$Help! I need Air Force GAs.  Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call  284-4431 ASAP  Call Molly x1363  
call Eric x1087  3)Professionally managed  Please call Gina at 277-0740.$$$$$  Sue at 277-8995  
4)Substantial cash return  BYU stud tix for sale  TO ALL STRAIGHT FEMALES:  
LOST: small blue topaz/diamond  5)Never go looking for a room for  please sell me your BYU Ga'sl  Call 289-9665  Wanted you to know you're still  
ring somewhere between C1 lot  football games again  I need 2 or 3. call Erika x2775  $$$$$$$$  loved by the opposite sex.  
and library. Call Jennifer at 273­ Call Missy Bornheimer-Coldwell  Need Navy GA's  Need AFGA  Rob Cuervo x0984  
4516 Cash reward iffound  Banker Anchor 259-6317,259­ Desperately need  Call Marc@ 233-4008  Will pay top $$$  
7573,  1(or 2) BYU GAs. $Big Bucks$.  $$$$$$$$$$  x1751  I need a ride to Urbana, IL on Oct.  
WANTED  235-3180 24hr voice mail or Jamison Inn 277-9682  Call Gene 287-9134  HELP$$$$! I need 2 GAs & 1 stud  GA'S FOR SALE! Two GA's for  21. Will help with expenses. Call Robx-4333  
We need 6 BYU and 2 Navy GA's  ticket for BYU -parents & sis  remaining home games & FSU  
Want two good tickets to see  Call Jon or Brian X1620  coming. For lots of $$$$$$, call  game.Need to sell quickly!! I  Happy Birthday Teresita  
James Taylor. Will trade tickets for  '94 Deluxe Plymouth Voyager,  272-9203!  ANDY 9-683-7688 (local)  -lhe "Polish Sausage"  
any remaining football games.  leather interior, loaded, 10,000  in need of 2 NAVY GA's. Please  
273-1080  miles, assume loan, $21,800. Call  call Melissa @ 4929.  I need GA's or student tickets for  Family coming : Need 2 GA's & 1  Megan,  
233-8855  BYU. Ca11Chris271-1390  Stud. BYU. Call Garrett 277-3641  Sorry couldn't surprise you this  
Help Wanted Individual  Need GA's for BYU! Call Jeff at  weekend. But I still miss you and  
~tudents/organizations to promote  For Sale  x2174  I need GA's for BYU, Navy and AF.  I HAVE BYU STUD TIX 4 SALE  love you very much. Damian  
Spring Break Trips. Earn high dollar  T-Shirts  Please call if u can help............ .  CHRIS 1-6696  
commissions and free trips. Must  $4  I NEED 2 BYU GA's  Call Tony@ 4-3883  Marf(, what's up the the squirrel?  
be outgoing and creative. Call immediately 1-800-217-2021  Call 277-7131  Call Clare X2556  PERSONAL  Is Pat Brady really the long lost  
Need a ride to U of Ml on 10/21.  TICKETS  NEEDED: NAVY-2 G.A.'s 1st game for 'rents. Coming from  I will be your best friend for a BYU GA or student ticket. (There's also  THE COPY SHOP  Brady who was substituted for by Oliver?  
Will pay for gas! x2852  the moon, NO football is only rea­ money involved). Call Cara. 284­ in Lafortune Student Center now  
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.  son for life. Will pay big $$.  4310.  accepts VISA, MC, and MAC cards  Hey Rich Van Zeyl, say hi to Jim  
272-6551  Can beat other bids.Call277-9742  for your copying needs.  Bart, Ralph Crecco, and Jerry  
LOGAN CENTER clients going to  Please! I need 1 BYU GAll Call  Worell, and tell them all is well at  
the ND/BYU football game. They  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  Need 2 BYU GAs  Mary Beth at x4220  I need a ride to and from NJ for  NO.  
need your student tickets donated.  HOME GAMES. 272-7233.  -Christi x4899  October break. I will share driving  
To donate, tear out ticket, write  For sale: 2 NAVY stud.tix ca112946  and expenses.  George Sarlas would like to wish  
seat location on ticket, and drop at  BYUBYUBYUBYUBYUBYUBYU  Need 1 BYU stud; 2 BYU GA's  Larax2518  everyone a happy Arbor day and  
CSC info desk by 3pm Friday.  For Sale  call George @x1939  Nj:ED 1 BYUGA  invite them to Nick's Steak House  
Questions? Call Luke Williams  BYUSTUD  Call Chris x3767  Female Grad Students  for a free lunch.  
at 277-4103. Thanks!!  Don @ 272-5622  For Sale: 2 BYU Ga's  Need 1 more roommate- 
BYUBYUBYUBYUBYUBYUBYU  30 Yard line  I need 1 Navy or 1 Air Force GA  Oak Hill $300/mo. 273-6153  Paul-y Waul-y:  
NEEDED: Responsible care-giver  Best Offer. x3438  Please Help. Tom 3253  
in our home for infant and three  I NEED BYU GA'S  BBWEAS:  Congrats to the logic geek who got  
year old. quiet environment, conve­ CALL JEFF@ 277-8250  NEED 2 BYU GA'S -1862  THE RED FOX IS GOING TO  the highest score on the exam. Can  
nient location. Mondays, Tuesdays,  Desperately need 2-3 BYU GA's  NEED A STRAIGHT JACKET ON  you impart some of your wisdom to  
Wednesdays, 2:00 to  I need 3 G.a>'s to B.Y.U. If u  Please call Chris@ 1527  SATURDAY NIGHT!  lowly Katers and Schmoo? Just  
8:00p.m. References required.  can help, call Ron at x1736  ***BYU or NAVY STUDENT  HAPPY 21ST!II LOVE, M&C  kidding, although I think I need a  
Call 289-9975.  TIX***"*************  tutor? I  
I need one Air Force GA or student  I have 4 roundtrip plane tix to  ••• call Gretchen @ 284-5261 to  *#!Hey you QUEER FOLKS#I*  Love and disjunctions, Schmoe ..  
*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*  ticket. I will pay big bucks. Please  Orlando that leave on the Thursday  and all our cool and supportive  
 
FASCINATING CONVERSATIONI  call X3822. Thanks!  before the FSU game. I'll sell them for $200 or best offer. Call Trout at  ........... make an offer ·--···-...........................................  friends...This weekend is your last chance to attend one of the most  Hey George. Josh, Jamie! Dude did ya do the Calc. I couldn't gel #7.  
Looking for a ride from NO to  HELPII need 4 Navy tickets-stud.  271-1390.  fabulous tailgatei"s ever...so before  
Milwaukee Thursday night October  and GA. Call Brian at x.2034.  I NEED 4 BYU G.A.'S  you head oft to the game look for  Westlund: Ther& was a Builders  
27  2 NAVY GA's& PARK. PASS  CALL MIKE X4073  the PRIDE flag and come on overt  Administrative Meeting on Friday  
Please Call Pierre x1184  Desperately need 4 BYU GA's  for sale -make offer  call the Q-line for info. 287-6665  October 7, wish you could have  
*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*  Call Megan at 4072  Peter @ x3533  been there, will call you on the next  
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S FOR MY  PW: You finally got your ticket so  one.  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­ PARENTS HATE YOU? SELL ME THEIR NAVY TIX!I  Urgent:Need 4 BYU GAs or stud Call Rick x1919  8 VAS. OLD BROTHER AND A FAMILY FRIEND. PLEASE HELP  ride the train as far as you can. Remember, you will always have a  Hey, Gerry Daley, what ever  -­ 
Earn up to $2,000+/month working  SERIOUS CASHII  ME II call BRIAN@ 271-9081  friend back at the slation.  happened with the whole water  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ CALL JERRY AT 3024  I NEED NAVY GAs. CALL WENDY  -KD  thing, hope it wasn't blown too far  
panies. World travel (Hawaii,  @X4708  NEED 1 or 2 NAVY GA-willing to  out of proportion. And if it was, It  
Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.)  I NEED 8 TICKETS TO BYU  buy or trade for air force GA. call  Molly, Molly, Molly, Mollyllt  was well worth it.  
Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ STUDENT OR GA'S CALL  NEED: 2 BYU GA's & 1 Married  ann x4544  Happy Birthday You Drunklll  
ment available. No experience nec­ MEGHAN X454t  Std. Call JARED 288-8141  Roses are red  Laura Roland Imagine your name  
essary. For more information call 1­ I need BYU tixl  Violets are blue  being In print at Notre Dame.  
206-634-Q468 ext. C55841  Will trade two or more tickets for  Need BYU stud. ticket. Call Alison  Sandyx4638  Wish Molly happy birthday  
any remaining NO football game  x2494  And buy her a brewlll  Greetings to the Aquila from Tom,  
for two good james Taytor tickets.  NEED 2 BYU 2 AF 1 NAVY &3 Any  hope things are as hectic as they  
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK  273-1080.  Alum selling 2 BYU GAs. Will fed  gameStuorGA CaiiTom@-1410.  MOLLY,  ever were.  
'951 LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA,  ex. 610-430-8613  UGH-UGH,  
CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE.  I NEED NAVY GA'S  Need 3 Stud T1x for BYU  I UGH UOG. UG OUG.  
BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1  MARKX1640  HELP! I need BYU student tbd  call Bill at 272-2376  KNOCK KNOCK, KNOCK KNOCK  Interested in becoming a radio  
ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL  CALL FRANK at -3344  KNOCK knock  announcer? WSND always  
FREEl SUN SPLASHTOURS1­ Need 3 BYU GA's &  UGH, BILL  welcomes new voices. We will trein  
800-426-7710  3NAVYGA's  Need 6 Navy Ga's  Need: GA's and Student TIX  and will program music for shows if  
call 4-2010  Bill271-9471  For Air Force. Will pay Big Bucks I  .NOH worf(ers unite and rebel. See  necessary. At the moment we are  
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  Call Liz 273-2179. Thanks!  that chic who stopped right in front  looking for someone familiar with  
Sailing Cruise! Free brochure  SELL ME YOUR AIR FORCE TIX  Hey you! I need 3 BYU tickets.  of you and your clean glasses?  Broadway showtunes to host a  
1(800)359-9808  CALL-BRENDAN AT 277-6315  Help me. Call Jenny x2286.  I NEED 3 BYU G.A.'S  Don't go around her, flatten herl  Sunday night show from 10 p.m. to  
MIKE 27Hl979  And that football player who cuts in  midnight. For more inforrnalion call  
* I desperately NEED 1 Navy GA *  NEED 2 BYU GA'S. WILL PAY  Really Ne~ 2 BYU stud. Tix  front of you while you're wheeling?  631-7342 and ask for Susan or  
• for my newlywed best friend.  $$$$$$-call Brian @ X1739  Callx2010  I NEED A BYU STUDENT TICKET  Sure he's big but with your wheel­ Harriet.  
* PLEASE CALL 4-4320  PLEASE! KELLY X4028  ing cart you can take him. So ditch  
NEED G.A. TIX TO NO VS BYU.  FOR SALE: 2 BYU GA's.  those rubber gloves, aprons, and  
BABYSITTER -2 children 1-2 half  CALL JOE @ 287-4561 BEFORE  273-9838.  NEED NAVY GA so FREAK  stupid paper hats. Grab up your  Pro-choice supporters unite and  
days per wk. Occasional evenings.  11P.M.  FRIEND'II drive me back after  glass carts, spatulas, and ladles;  lakeover. Isn't that "Cemetery of  
$5.00 hr. 272-5029  NEED2  break: Nate X3252  for out of the seething masses will  Innocents• slightly obnoxious?  
STUDTIX­ $$BYU GA'S$$  arise a leader known only as  Maybe it should be changed to  
FOR RENT  LAST 3 HOME GAMES CALL 271-1249 WITH OFFER  CALL DAN X1096  Need 1 BYU stu. tick. Call Shannon 291-6288.  Slacker to guide you to victory over dining hall dictator Ricky Suave.  "Cemetery of Extremists"--·­ 

page 18 
Harris 
continued from page 28 
Association and USA Today/Mizuno. She also played on the Junior National team in 1992-93. 
In her first season with the Irish, Harris has been one of the major contributors to the record setting 16-1 start. She has 213 kills on the season thus far, and has led the Irish in kills in seven of the team's matches. Harris is also a solid defensive force as she has led the team in digs four times, with a total of 147 digs on the season. 
Harris' most powerful weapon would be her jump serve that strikes fear in every Irish opponent. Loyola Marymount got a taste of this 
r when Harris served an Irish single-match record of seven service aces against the Lions. She leads the team with 30 ser­vice aces, and with half of the season left, could look to break the single-season record of 46 service aces, set by senior co-captain Nicole Coates last sea­son. 
Behind Harris' talent and performance lies a humble and cooperative player, who looks to improve every possible as­pect of her play. 
"She's fun to coach," said Brown of Harris. "She works hard and is very attentive to the coaching staff." 
Brown also praises Harris' attitude and ability to play as a member of a team. "She has a positive attitude and has good communication with her teammates." 
Looking into the future, one might wonder if Harris can im­prove on her performance in her frrst season. Coach Brown looks to Harris as a dependable player who will continue to contribute to the success of the Irish, but will also continue to improve with age and experi­ence. "She's performed very well," said Brown, "but she can get much better." "She will become more consis­tent and will improve with ex­perience." 


Midnight 
continued from page 28 
involving Irish basketball in recent years. 
With entrance into the Big East Conference just one year away, coach John MacLeod's program is enjoying a revival. 
Midnight Mania, organizers hope, will act as a catalyst to further inspire fans to follow the Irish. 
"We're all pretty excited about it, the seniors in particu­lar," senior point guard Lamarr Justice said. "It's a chance to get the season started on a good note." 
It's a season that many people expect to have few good notes. 
Much of last year's offensive production has disappeared, with Monty Williams now a New York Knick. 
"Some people are looking past this season," Justice said. "But we'll surprise people with the number of games we'll win and the way we'll compete with some of the better teams on our schedule. 
"We have a lot of talent and athletic ability. Everyone knows we have great shooters." 
It will all be on display for the first time tonight at midnight. The team will conduct a brief scrimmage and then be avail­able for photos and autographs. 
The first serious workout, not for public consumption, will be Saturday morning at 8 a.m. 
"I don't know how excited I am about being back at 8 a.m., but I'm excited about Midnight Mania, there's no doubt about that," Justice said. 
Portland 
continued from page 28 
Losses last weekend at No. 4 Hartford and No. 12 Connecticut were the frrst con­secutive losses by a Portland team since1991. 
But despite the apparent loss of momentum, the Pilots have maintained their competitive edge on the home field. They carry a 17-game home win streak into their match with the Irish, including a recent overtime win against then-No. 8 Washington. 
"Along with MacMillan, they lost Justi Baumgardt," Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said. "That's two of their three best attacking players." 
But Notre Dame may have little sympathy for the Pilots' misfortune. The Irish have been without as many as four starters at different points dur­ing this season and have still managed an 11-0-1 record, their only blemish a 0-0 tie with No. 1 North Carolina. 
"There's not a lot of pressure "this weekend," Petrucelli said. "We've proven ourselves al­ready and that's given us a lot of confidence. We know we can beat anyone, so we can go out and play and have fun." 
"Washington is a team full of solid players," Petrucelli said. "Melanie Brennan is one of their best players, but they have no real superstars." 
Brennan, the Husky career record holder for goals scored, was named a second team All­American last season. 
After their games this week­end, the Irish will have com­pleted the toughest stretch of their schedule, a three week period in which five of the six teams they have played were at one time ranked in the top­10. 
These games will also be 
Notre Dame's last against 
ranked opponents for the re­
mainder of the regular season, 
but Petrucelli hopes the squad 
can maintain its intensity. 
"After our weekend against 
North Carolina and Duke last 
season there was a sigh of re­
lief," Petrucelli said. "I won't 
let that happen this year." 
"We tried to turn our intensi­
ty on and off last year, and 
when we turned it off for a few 
weeks we couldn't turn it back 
on when the tournament start­
ed." 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALl 

Irish offer ticket package 
Special to The Observer and Locker Room Club monthly newsletter. In addition, mem­
Season tickets for 1994-95 bers will be invited to postgame Notre Dame women's basket­receptions with the Irish coach­ball games will be available for ing staff and players following the frrst time ever this season. selected home games. 
A reception to tip-off the sea­Ticket prices for the 11-game son ticket drive will be held on package will be $25 for adults Monday, October 17 at 5 p.m. and $10 for youths 15 and un­in the Faculty Dining Room of der. the South Dining Hall. Coach "We're very excited about Muffet McGraw and team our home schedule and the members will be in attendance opportunity to offer a season to talk about the season. ticekt package to our fans," 
All season ticket holders will Notre Dame coach Muffet become members of the newly McGraw said. "We're fortunate formed Notre Dame Locker to have teams like Purdue and Room Club. Members will have Michigan State playing in our priority seating and parking building. As always, our MCC privileges and will receive a league games will be very im­copy of the Notre Dame wom­portant as we look for a repeat en's basketball media guide trip to the NCAA's." 
r------------------------,
!Free Topping ~.! 
We Put ASmile On Your Tute!• I Campus Shoppes Offer good only at Campus Shoppes store 1837 s Bend Ave I1 Not valid with any other offer. Exp. 10/21/94 271-9540 · I 
L------------------------~ 

Voted #1 ;Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, 1993 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
For Carry Out or Reservations 
(219)272-7376 
130 Dixie Highway South (on U.S. 31 next to Randall's Inn) 

'it MAGNIFICENT FilM! }ULIE7TE 8/NOCHE IS BRIWA.VT! Krzysztof Kiesloll'ski remai11s anw11g Ibe ba11d(u/ ofcrmtempomrr masters'" 
-lhlf't• At'irr. \I" ru«A IH//1 \/" \ 
}ULIE1TE BJNOCHE 
"****' 
!SA MARVEL! Blue' makes tbe sbortlist ofIbe years fillest films!" 
-Hul,,lrtmJ.(/fJ\.~\<,HHIWII \I"\ 
"MYSTERIOUS...SEXY! Krzysztof Kieslmcskis u·ork mdiates illteusitr!"" 
-AIIII~tmt· ltmt•. 11/f \I"" )IJHMR 
BES;·;;LM '-lt)
( 
EST ACTR.'.SS-J.UC..IETTE BIN.OCHE 
BEST CINEHATOGitA,HT 
ViN1cEFn:-t1 FEsTivAL 
199] 

JULIETTE BINOCHE 
BlUI
-I ill! I!. __ ---·­
KRZYSZTOF KIESLOWSKI 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE Friday & Saturday 7:30 and 9:45 pm 
Kamm's Island Inn 
(fl_ 

Relax on Private Balconies Overlooking The St. Joe River 
KITCHENETTES IN ALL ROOMS LOCATED IN THE HISTORIC 100 CENTER, FEATURING RESTAURANTS, THEATRES, ANTIQUES, UNIQUE SHOPPING 
e 
100 Center Mishawaka, IN 256.. 1501 
-• • ' ~ ~ w , • -~ • • -----= -----<;" -~ ~ -.. -.. --= ~· -...... --.
.................................... .. .... . 
--~~-~~----------------------' 
<' 
~ 
I 1 
I
Friday, October 14, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 I 
• WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Siegfried up-ends Pasquerilla East, 12-6 
By MICHAEL DAY 
Spons Writer 
When an unstoppable force encounters an immovable ob­ject, something has to give. Fortunately for Sigfried, it was the Pasqu~rella East defense. 
The powerful Slammer of­fense penetrated the stingy Pyro defense for two touch­downs en route to earning a 12-6 victory and sole posses­sion of first place in the Blue Division. 
Sigfried quarterback Marcie McNeill threw two touchdown 
N~t a Franahise! 
A Famz y Owne Business 
passes, including the game winner to wideout Kathleen Clark with four minutes left in the game to improve the No. 5 Slammers' mark to 4-1. 
After holding PE on the game's opening possession, Sigfried took over near mid­field and wasted no time in establishing a strong offensive game plan. 
On their first play, McNeill found receiver Erin Ippolito open over the middle for a 20­yard gain. One play later, tail­back Tricia Shafnitz caught a screen pass from McNeill and 
I 
Main & Jefferson 
Hours 
Mon-Sat 11:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m.
Sun 4:00-9:00 p.m. 

257-1100 
"This is How Pizza is Supposed to Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery 
Call272-2EAT 
$2 off large pizza with Student ID 
galloped 25 yards for a touch­down to put the Slammers ahead 6-0. 
On their first possession of the second half, PE put togeth­er a methodical, time consum­ing drive to give them a first and goal at the Slammer five­yard line. Two plays later, quarterback Kristen Doty kept the ball and scampered up the middle for a Pyro touchdown. The conversion attempt was unsuccessful, and the score re­mained tied at six until the four minute mark in the game. 
McNeill's strike to Clark gave the Slammers a 12-6 lead that they would not relinquish. When PE quarterback Doty mishandled the snap at the Slammer 30-yard line with un­der two minutes remaining, the celebration was on for Sigfried. 
"We came through when we needed to," said Slammer coach David Bozanich. "It was our toughest game of the year, but we did what it took to win the game." 
The victory puts the Slammers all alone at the top of the Blue Division, and with one game remaining, Sigfried is a lock to take part in the postseason playoffs. 
Off Campus 18 Farley 0 
The word "domination" best sums up Off Campus' perfor­mance in their 18-0 win over Farley last night. Defensively, 0-C limited the Farley offense 
,---------------------------------. 
FOREIGN OAR PARTS Is now under new 
management and wa are better tfw.n ewr/Take a look at all we've got to offer: 
II('Carry Full Une of Beci<Jhnley Woodparts II('Have Hard-to-find 'N.O.S.' Parts I(Meet Specific Needs of Car Enthu~asts I(Supply Over Night Service on Non-stocked Parts 
to just 85 total yards, and offensively, they exploded for two second half touchdowns to help propel the No. 6 squad to victory. 
"Both the offense and defense played extremely well tonight," echoed the 0-C coaching staff. "We are start­ing to gel together as a team heading into the playoffs." 
Team captain and starting defensive back Kelly Guerin set the tone early for Off-Campus on Farley's third play from scrimmage.. Geurin inter­cepted a Molly Riestenberg pass and ran it back 60 yards for a tou~hdown and a 6-0 lead. 
Guerin helped lead the team defensively, collecting two of Off-Campus' three intercemp­tions against Riestenberg. The 0-C defensive line was able to manhandle the Farley offen­sive front for most of the evening. 
On the other side of the ball, it was the dynamic duo of Sara Donelly and Megan Allen that spelled doom for the Farley defense. Donelly scored two touchdowns on a three-yard run and a 10-yard pass recep­tion. Allen and the offensive line provided key blocks all evening long to help Off­Campus amass nearly 150 yards in total offense 
The victory upped Off Campus' mark to 3-1-l, and the team will play its season fi­nale next Monday before preparing for the postseason 
playoffs. Lewis 21 Knott 6 
The Lewis Interhall football team was given this ultima­tum: win their fmal two games or watch the playoffs from the stands. The Chickens com­pleted the first half of their goal with by crushing Knott 21-6last night. 
The Angel offense couldn't get anything going offensively before intermission. Lewis' defense held Knott to just 23 total yards and no first downs in the first half. Angel quar­terback Karen Wallace was intercepted three times and was under constant pressure from the Chickens' defensive line the whole evening. 
As bad as Knott was offen­sively, they may have been worse defensively. After hold­ing Lewis scoreless for much of the first half, the Chickens ex­ploded in the final fifteen sec­onds of the first half. The of­fense capped a six-play, 45­yard drive when tailback Amy Granata received the pitch from quarterback Liz Telerico and dashed 10 yards for the touchdown. Lewis added the two-point conversion when Telerico found receiver Marybeth Failla wide open in the back of the endzone. 
The Chickens added to their lead in the opening minutes of the second half. Team captain Tracy Cote intercepted a Wallace pass and returned it to the Knott 35-yard line. The Chickens moved the ball to the 10-yard line where they faced fourth and goal. 
In a well-designed timing play, Telerico rolled out to her left and threw a perfect perfect lead pass in the corner of the endzone. A streaking Emily Miller fully extended her arms and pulled in the pass in mid stride for the touchdown and a 15-0 Lewis lead. 
Knott added a harmless 

touchdown late in the game, 
but it was too little too late. 
Granata put the icing on the 
cake for the Chickens when 
she hauled in a poorly thrown 
screen pass and dashed 60 
yards for a touchdown. 
Lewis faces their final test on 

Monday with the playoffs on 
the line. 

DOOLITTLE'S PUB 
291--6544 
Home of the DooLittles Amazing Sub & 1/2 lb Pub Burger Serving Food 11 a.m.--Midnight daily! Join the Around the World Import Club 
4407 S. Ironwood 
Every Sunday Night 

HOURS: 
"Rock Sunday" 

Mon--Sat lla.m.--3a.m. 
301 Dart Tournament 

Sun 12--12 
$5 entry, 100% pay back 


page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 14, 1994 
• COUEGE fOOTBALl 
Wildcats take new-found confidence into Nebraska 

Assodated Press 

MANHATTAN, Kan. 
Kansas State quarterback Chad May could hardly have a better day Saturday against No. 2 Nebraska than he had against the Cornhuskers last year. 
May set a Big Eight record last year by passing for 459 yards as the Wildcats gained 565 yards total and still lost 45­28. 
But it is a far more confident Kansas State team this year, one ranked No. 16 in the na­tion, and a far more confident May, who hasn't thrown an interception in 166 attempts. 
"(The passing game) worked last year," said offensive tackle Jim Hmielewski. "We just came up short. I think we found out how we can beat them, or at least attempt to beat them." 
May completed 33 of 44 pass­es last week for 379 yards ­the second-highest total of his career -as the Wildcats went to 4-0 by defeating Kansas in the conference opener. 
He has shown great poise in staying in the pocket and has thrown accurately. Perhaps the only knock on him is that he doesn't run well, but he seems nimble enough to step up to avoid the rush. 
May played in high school at Laverne, Calif. Cal State­Fullerton was the only school to offer him a scholarship. Then Fullerton State changed its offense, and the new scheme wasn't suited to May. He tried to get UCLA to bite, but there were no offers there either. 
Kansas State coach Bill Snyder heard about the situation, and suddenly the California boy was playing in the Flint Hills of Kansas. 
May sat out last season but went into spring practice as the No. 1 quarterback. Now he is being talked of as a Reisman Trophy possibility. 
By ROB GLOSTER "I've been humbled before, Walsh attributes many of the Associated Press last year all through the year problems to youth. Eleven un­and this," he said. derclassmen saw significant STANFORD, Calif. "My record isn't dotted with a playing time on defense at 
~ Bill Walsh grabbed the mi­
tremendous win-loss record. Arizona State. We won some Super Bowls and "By the time we're mature as
' crophone and pretended to be a 
Europe!!

reporter questioning the in­bowl games at Stanford, but it's a team," Walsh said, "I'll prob­: tegrity of John Robinson's foot­
not a Bud Wilkinson-type ably be in my glory some­
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is ball program at Southern Cal. 
record." where." 
your local Europe Travel Specialist 
.,. Then he quickly left the room, 
Let us send you to Europe!
before Robinson could retaliate. :. It was a moment of lightness 
Happy; in what has been a long and not 
*Airfares Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. ~·: very enjoyable season for 
Low airfares to Europe. 
2Qth

·~ Walsh, the former NFL mas­*Rail Passes Rail Passes issued in our office! 
·.• termind in his third year back No service fee! 
at Stanford. 
Timetables, prices, tickets available! 
His Cardinal team, which 
Birthday 
*Car Rentals Discounted car rentals!
began the year with a national Available in all European Countries!
ranking, has underachieved 
and fallen to 1-3-1. A few un­*Experience Over 20 years experience working with
Sarah and 
Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students team's attitude, and even pub­derclassmen have criticized the 
and faculty travelling to Europe. licly questioned Walsh's style. 
Rachael 
We know Europe -let us plan your trip!
And Walsh, who led the San Francisco 49ers to three Super Love, 
1723 South Bend Ave. Bowl titles in the 1980s, has 
-Next to the Notre Dame campus ­
been hounded all season to ex­Mom &Carl 
219 271-4880

plain derogatory comments he made about opponents ranging from Arizona to Notre Dame. 
After a last-minute 36-35 loss 
The 2nd Annual Emil T. Hofman, PhD lecture 
at Arizona State last weekend that Walsh called a "disaster," the coach said there was a strong sense of disappointment. 
James Curran, .MD '66 
"You can't say you're enjoying yourself," he said. "You try to 
Assistant Surgeon General 
make it a lesson for the athletes 
-of how to come back from 
Director, Office ofHIVI AIDS 
frustration." Walsh, who also coached 
Centers for Disease Control 
Stanford in 1977-78, took the Cardinal to a 10-3 record and a Blockbuster Bowl victory over Penn State in his first year back. The Cardinal slipped to 4­7 last year, and must struggle to even equal that record this season. 
Going into Saturday's home game against Pac·1 0 rival USC, the Cardinal is last in the con­ference in scoring defense. The 
October 15 (before BYU game)
high-scoring Stanford 'offense, 
led by senior quarterback Steve 
8:30 a.m. -10:00 a.m. 
Stenstrom, has been unable to 
make up for a defense that al­
Cushing Auditorium 
lows 33 points a game. Walsh said the loss to Arizona 
*Ask your parents if they had Dr. Hofman!
State was just the latest in a 
J 

-----~~-~­
~­

--------, 
I 
~ 
1 
I October 14, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 1 j 
j 
FREE BEN &JERRY'S ICE CREAM FOR EVERYONE! 



FREE BLIMPIE SUBS TO THE FIRST 1,000 STUDENTS 

FREE ADMISSION WITH STUDENT 
liD 




• 
~­

IS one. 

NOTRE DAME MEN'S SOCCER 
------------vs.-----------­
1Oth·ranked SOUTHERN METHODIST ~­7:30p.m • Alumni Field (behind the Joyce Center) 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 14, 1994 
• WoMEN's Cnoss CmnnRv 
....-­
Irish runners face tough competition 
By RANDY WASINGER Sports Writer 
Sunday's trip is crunch time for the Notre Dame women's cross country squad-and they know it. 
Coming off a second place finish in last weekend's Notre Dame Invitational, the Irish now head to Ann Arbor, Michigan, for their toughest, and most important meet of the season. 
tast year, they finished 7th in the same meet-a meet that Coach Connelly called "proba­bly the worst one we had all year." 
This time around, the Irish will have to rustle up a much better race if they expect to qualify for the NCAA Championships at the end of the season. Sunday's meet features six of the nation's top­20 teams, including 4th­ranked Stanford and 8th­ranked Michigan. 
"There are eight districts around the country, and the top two teams from each dis­trict qualify for the NCAA's," explained Coach Connelly. "After that, they take six more as at-large bids. How well you do against the top teams determines whether or not you're picked." 
"A meet like this is critical for us. This meet has the top teams in the country, and it's important that we beat some of them." 
Notre Dame began practice this week as the 18th-ranked team in the nation-a spot they've been at or near for most of the season. They will look for leadership from senior Kristi Kramer, the top finisher for the Irish in every meet this season. 
"Nobody's stepped up and tried to win a race this year," said Connelly, "and we've got some girls who are definitely capable of doing that." 
If Connelly expects to knock off some top teams and solidify his team's chances of making the NCAA's, he will need strong performances Sunday not only from Kramer and Riley, but also from his other top runners-sophomore Emily Hood, senior Maureen Kelly, and juniors Kristen Dudas and Amy Siegel. 
"Last year we had three kids do really well at the Michigan meet," said Connelly. "But our 4th and 5th place runners did­n't do as well as they could have, and that really hurt us." 
"This is the last time we will race before districts, so that means it's our last time to run against top teams from outside our district." 
"Sunday's race is critical." 
Associated Press 

MADISON, Wis. 
Wisconsin quarterback Darrell Bevell is making a speedy recovery from his sepa­rated right shoulder and may see action Oct. 22 against Minnesota, coach Barry Alvarez says. 
"I think Minnesota is realis­tic, very realistic," Alvarez said Wednesday. ''I'd be surprised if he doesn't play the Minnesota game." 
But Alvarez said he doubted whether Beven would be well enough to play at home against Purdue this Saturday. Bevell in­jured the shoulder less than two weeks ago in the Badger's losing effort against Michigan State. 
Alvarez said Monday that he didn't believe Beven would be able to throw this week, but the injured quarterback was throwing in practice on Wednesday. 
"I didn't think he would be able to pick his arm up until next week. But he's worked very hard. He's really made tremendous progress," Alvarez said. 
Backup quarterback Jay Macias agreed. 
"He's coming around and starting to throw. He looks pretty good to me," Macias said. 
Macias was expected to be starting quarterback against Purdue. He started last week and led the Badgers to a 46-14 trouncing of Northwestern. 
Terrell Fletcher will get the starting nod at tailback in place of Brent Moss, who is still suf­fering from a strained right knee and ankle, Alvarez said. 
But Alvarez hoped Moss would still be available for some action. 
"I won't know anything prob­ably until Saturday. I wish I knew myself. I hope he's avail­able," Alvarez said of Moss. 
Moss, who has rushed for 100 yards or more in 16 straight games, said Wednesday he has noticed daily improvement, "but it's not ready yet." 

WELCOME BACK rro CAMPUS 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
Where Great Names in GolfCome Together 
Distinctive Gifts for All Occasions Gloves, Shirts, Sweaters, Hats, Balls, Towels, Umbrellas 
Located "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 
Football Weekend Hours Fridays 6:30AM-5:30PM Saturdays 6:00AM-One hour before game Sundays 6:00AM-4:00PM Notre Dame Golf Shop -Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-6425 
• Cm..t.EGE foorsAu. 

Badgers' Bevell recovering quickly 
106TH ANNUAL TALENT SHOW AND 
~ 
BACHELOR RAFFLE ~ 
;ill ~~~tf~ 
~ AScreaming Otter 
~~;o~~~~
"Monk" Malloy, CSC 

~0~~~~
~T.V. Morris, Philosopher 
i~<t" ~ 

October 14, 1994 The Observer • PAIG ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
~ 
l' 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------------~ l 
~ 
-....-l l
/ 


•.. 
Apply for the Discover® Card by November 10. Spend $75. Get $25 back~ NO Annual Fee. 

~ 
l ~ 
Look for applications and certificates on campus. 
4 1 
I
MEMBERiffiJ''@INETWORK ®1994 Greenwood Trust Company, Member FDIC. 
*Thls offer valld for Discover Card a.ppllc&tlons rece!Vlld by 11/10/94, that are approved a.nd enrolled between 9/21 a.nd 11/21/94. Offer valld for purch&ees ma.de by 3/31/95. C&eh &dva.nces/ba.la.nce tra.nsfers excluded. Offer llm!ted to one rebate per account. 

--~ ~-~ -~-~----­
~ 
r 
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 14, 1994 
• MEN'S BLUE DIVISION INTERHALL 
Morrissey, Flanner vie_for play-off bids 


By NEIL ZENDER 
Sports Writer 
There aren't a lot of implica­tions riding on Sunday's Morrissey-Flanner game. Just maybe the fate of each team's season. Both teams need a win to remain in playoff contention. 
The Manorites (1-2) are look­ing to bounce back from last week's shocking loss at the hands of Grace. 
"We have .to go out there and execute perfectly." Captain Avelino Verceles said. "We had the game won last week, until we were victimized by fluke plays in the last quarter. Grace
r 
I 
didn't win that game. We lost I ~ that game." But that didn't douse the 
Manorites hopes for making the playoffs. A 2--2 record might qualify them. 
The key man for Morrissey will be tailback John Goetz. 
"I have all the confidence in the world in him. He knuws how to pick and find the holes." 
Flanner flies into the battle at 1-1. A win would give them strong positioning for a playoff slot. 
"We watched them play this. weekend." Captain Too Keller said. "It was a tough way to lose, to dominate a football game forty-five minutes of the forty-eight. That kind of wor­ries me. They'll be fired up. They have nrr chance to make the playoffs. if they don't beat us. I'd expect to see their best." 
"They d() have a pretty capa­ble offense:•. but as long as we don't give up the big play, we can hang with anybody." 
'Parlitiptmls musl te a ntJJSmC slutlenl. OntiJ lllll •rks will te attepletl (tlrawings, tlesign, pht~lt~graph1J, painlings} wilh allfllximum ,;~, t~l3'x3'. 
1he exhitil witt 6e sh11wn ;,. fhe 1Jt1t1teiJ "''"' al lalt~tlune Sfudenl Cenler n,flem6er 1·11 
.. 
'Purthase pri~es, darling al $200, witt 6e awarded. 
Applitalillfl 1111 111111ila6l• "'"' ;, "" Sl•tl•nl Adi11ili11 Ollie• 
375 lal"'""'· 
Spedid 11ulltlu t. 
,,,.,.,,; ,.....,.,. 
"'' s,;, m ...,,.,,"'' 
Sf•ll•"f Acfiuifi,. Oflice lt~r Hteir hufifllfJ t. lite
,,,/!,...,,~••.,,,,•. 


Grace vs. Keenan 
Grace and Keenan are the flip 
sides of a coin. One just deliv­
ered a debilitating defeat. The 
other just suffered one. 
Keenan is coming off a tough 
22-7 loss to Stanford. At 2-1, 
they need a win to make the 
playoffs. 
"We need to bring our self­
esteem back from our defeat 
against Stanford," Captain Rob 
Rolf said. "We need a stepping 
stone into the playoffs." 
For Keenan, the problem isn't 
the defense. Even though they 
gave up 22 points to Stanford, 
Keenan has a solid defense. 
"I think we have to establish 
an offense. In the first few 
games, we won because of our 
defense." 
While Keenan is coming into 
the game trying to recover from 
defeat. Grace is flying high after 
shocking Morrissey, a team Rolf 
felt was the best in Interhall. 
"I think it's going to be a 
tough game. Keenan is a very, 
very good football team. It's 
going to be a good matchup. 
Offensively, we lost our fullback 
• (Jeff Ford) with a broken hand. I just hope we can put together four solid quarters and put our­self in a position to win in the end." 
"We need to move the ball with a little more consistency. Defensively. we need to make a stand against a very good of­fensive team." 
"In lnterhall football, it's tough to lay out what you need to do to have success. You need more points than your opponent, and anyway we can do it, we'll take." 



Stanford vs. Dillon 
It sounds like a track meet. Whoever runs better will win. But this is lnterhall football, and both Stanford and Dillon are looking to run away from each other in Sunday's battle. 
The 2-1 Studs are looking for a playoff slot. They came back 


CATCH THE SPIRIT! 
''The true spirit ofNotre Dame is captured in the commitment to faith and humanity••• " 
Catch the spirit of the 1995 Datebook, "The Spirit of Notre Dame." This high quality 7,1/4 x 9,1/2 inch weekly planner captures the physical beauty of Notre Dame's campus through 52 black and white photographs. Each week, the Datebook's scenic pictures will bring Notre Dame, its memories, and unique spirit home to you! 
The Datebook also conveys the growth of another spirit: the spirit of serving others. The Datebook is spon, sored by the Noqe Dame Alumni Association to benefit La Casa de Amistad, Inc., a Hispanic non,profit community center on the City of South Bend's West Side. 
By purchasing a Datebook, you, too can be a part of the spirit of La Casa de Amistad, Inc. that is working to build youth programming in order to give boys and girls a healthier, brighter future. 
Available now Campus wide for $10. Pick it up in the bookstore and various campus concession stands. 
from an upset at the hands of Morrissey with a solid 22-7 thumping of Keenan last week. 
"We definitely did bounce back." Captain Chad Smock said. "It was nice to come back and have the guys rally like that and play well." 
The Studs are hoping that their performance against Keenan spills over into this week's game against Dillon. 
"After what happened against Morrissey, it woke everybody up that other teams could beat us. We basically got in playoff mode last week, and so the in­tensity will be up." 
On offense, Stanford is plan­ning to accentuate the running game. 
"We've got a very good pass­ing game, but I don't think 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. President, Univenity ofNotre Dame we're going to use it that much." 
If Dillon (0-2) is going to win, they must win the battle on the line of scrimmage .. 
But if Smock's faith in his men up front is justified, Dillon could have problems. 
"I think our offensive line can do a fairly good job against most defenses we can face." 
Budzichowski's crew will be trying the same grounded of­fensive tactic. 
However, Dillon's offensive success will depend on their ability to move the ball against Stanford's potent defense. Brett Galley leads a vicious Stud linebacking corp that should present Dillon with problems. 
·,'­


Notre Dame Alumni Association Friday, October 14, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
• MEN'S GOLD DIVISION INTERHALL 
Top-ranked Carroll faces No. 4 Alumni 
By JEFF COX looking for continued improve­
"We're going through a lot of Spores Writer ment this week. player personnel changes right "Our defense has done their now," Slease said. "We have to 
The marquee interhall foot­part. Now it's up to the of­stay tough on defense, but I'm ball match-up this weekend pits fense," he said. ''I'm concerned worried about our offense." top-ranked Carroll against No. about execution. The pressure Despite Sorin's injuries, Cary 4 Alumni. Although Carroll sits is definitely on our offensive isn't taking the Otters lightly. atop this week's power poll, the line, receivers, and quarterback "They're a lot tougher than Dawgs hope to pound that Conrad Hansen." their record shows," the Fisher ranking into oblivion. While both captains are con­captain explained. "But we 
In order for Alumni (1-0-2) to cerned about their own teams, Fisher a 2-2 record but also a have to concentrate on our­pull off the upset, they'll have both have respect for each oth­chance for a spot in the upcom­selves." to stop Carroll's upstart offense. er's squads. ing IH play-offs. 
"We need to come out and "If we win and St. Ed's loses, I Zahm vs. St. Ed's 
"We've played two good games play well," Ismail said. think we're in the play-offs," in a row," Carroll captain Scott "They're a big, physical team. Fisher captain Chris Cary said. Although the IH football play­Ismail commented. "Our quar­We know how good Alumni is." "But all we can do is play the offs are down the road, terback Chad Harrison has Captain Johnson felt the same best we can and hope." Sunday's Zahm-St. Ed's tussle been playing well, and so has way about Carroll. Cary hopes for another big will have a play-off atmosphere. our offensive line." "We have a lot of respect for game out of his offensive line, 
Carroll's offense got a boost them," he said. "It's going to be which he said looked good last In order for No. 6 St. Ed's to from freshman tailback Joe a good, hard-nosed football week. He also hopes for big win and put themselves in good Schenher in last Sunday's 17-7 game." things out of freshman quar­post-season position, they will success against Sorin. terback Brian Hertz and his re­have to do what no other team Although Schenher played pri­Sorin vs. Fisher ceiving corps. has done this year: score marily defense in high school, On the other side of the field, against No.7 Zahm. he tallied a 14-yard touchdown After a 12-0 setback to Zahm No. 13 Sorin comes in with a "Our defense doesn't have a in the win. a week ago, No. 11 Fisher looks host of injuries. A dislocated weak link," Zahm captain Dave 
While Carroll (2-0-1) was hav­to get back to .500 by reeling in knee put Sorin's fullback and Bozanich stated, "or if it does, ing its way with Sorin, Alumni a win over winless Sorin. defensive end on that list, no one has found it yet. It's battled St. Ed's to a scoreless A win over the Screaming which worries captain Pete been a whole team effort. All tie. Captain Avery Johnson is Otters not only would give Slease. eleven of us have come up big." 
FAMOUS 

15 Years of Service Award 
DINE IN, CARRY OUT, OR DELIVERY 
SZE-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AMERICAN DISHES 
"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
•Private 
Dining Booths 

•Fresh 
Ingredients 

•No 
Mass Production 


Voted #1 in Michiana 
•Healthy 
Family Style Dining 20 TANS ALMOST FREE 

•Vegetarian 
Menu 


For Reservations 
WITH THIS ADI

& Carry Out Call: FOR A VERY LIMITED TIMEI 
expries Oct. 7. 1994
272-6702 
CALL TODAY 
For Delivery Call 272-2-EAT 
272·7653
6329 University Commons 
FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD. 23
(Across from University Park Mall) South Bend, IN 46635 
UNMRSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN 
VISA 
Notre Dame Merchandise Home 

Football Weekends 
enne 
u n v e r s t y p a r k M a 

Two other Zahm players who came up big last week were quarterback Benji Hammond and split end Rich Rios. The pair helped Zahm to a 12-0 win over Fisher and a 1-0-2 record. 
"Our offense fmally started to click last week," Bozanich stat­ed. "We need Hammond and Rios to spark the offense early on." 
While Hammond and Rios are key players for Zahm, 1-1-1 St. Ed's has some big players of its own. 
"Our tailback Mike Norbut is a key player," St. Ed's captain Tony Nowak stated. Nowak went on to say that wide re­ceiver Dan Wajeski is now fully recovered from a thigh injury. 
While Nowak is excited about his offense, he also has good things to say about his defense. 
Both sides will need a total team effort to come out on top Sunday, and both teams are taking must-win attitudes into the contest. 
"I don't know how the play-off system is going to be," Bozanich stated, "but we need to win this game." 
And Nowak echoed those thoughts. "We need to win this game," he said. 
ttecSI)Urts. off.iceY< Sp;1ce is 
tJr{;.;;qJf.i\·· = ..;,;:~~>··:-:,:
_._·_,,::::, .. , 
be broad· jlpm on 640 AM. Thls week's L v.tLltm!~:~. will be Irish volleyball Christy Peters and 
hAr>n,.,.n .Tuttle, . 

"· 
-
---------------------------------, 
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 14, 1994 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish look for change of fortune 
By JARED PATZKE are currently ranked third in Sports Writer the division and must wait for the remaining teams to play out 
With the disappointment of a their games before they can be poor showing in the assured a berth in the tourna­Midwestern Conference linger­ment. ing in their minds, the Notre Dame men's soccer team is' now Without a tournament berth, trying to concentrate on the the Irish cannot make the remainder of their regular sea­NCAA tournament. son which consists of non-con­While Notre Dame awaits its ference games. These matches destiny, the Irish will embark include three nationally ranked on a rigorous schedule, meeting opponents. the likes of SMU, Wisconsin­
The 2-1 overtime loss to the Madison, and UCLA, who are University of Wisconsin at nationally ranked lOth, 17th, Green Bay ended the Irish's and 9th respectively. regular season conference Notre Dame will host SMU schedule. With this loss comes tonight at 7:30 p.m at Alumni a lot of uncertainty for the fu­Field. The Irish will use this ture of the team. game as a building block for 
the future. After experiencing 
The top four teams in the several unexpected losses, Western Division of the Notre Dame is searching for Midwestern Collegiate consistency in their play. Conference will go to the con­ference tournament, which will "We have to get back to the be held at Notre Dame. The basics and really work on our Irish (4-4 in conference play) fundamentals. Recently we've been lacking in that area," said Great Lakes Region standings Irish goalkeeper Bert Bader. for the first time this season. "There's a lot of pride within "We're going to try and come this team and we will fix our out more relaxed tonight," mistakes." comments Oates. "In our last 
Bader is the anchor of what few games we seem to have has proven to be an extremely come out tight, hopefully we'll strong Irish defense. With the be less panicked." help of Chris Dean, Kevin Adkisson, and Brian Engessor, Notre Dame lost their only Bader has allowed only twelve previous game against SMU by the score of 2-0 in the opening round of last year's NCAA tour­nament. 
SMU is the third nationally ranked team the Irish have played this year. Notre Dame lost its other two meetings with ranked teams by scores of 1-0 to No. 7 Penn State and 2-0 to No. 1 Indiana. 

goals. The unit has also com­bined for two goals and four as­sists to boost the struggling of­fense. 
Happy
Senior forward Tim Oates is anxiously awaiting the match­up with SMU. 
''I'm really looking forward to this game. It's a great oppor­tunity for our team to gain con­
Birthday
fidence and some respect." 
If Notre Dame needs any­thing, it's confidence. The loss to Wisconsin-Green Bay dropped their over all record below the .500 mark at 5-6. It also propelled them out of the 
Mindy! 
LA SALLEPARTNERS 
Financial Analyst Program 
Financial Analyst for LaSalle Partners Limited, an international real estate firm providing Advisory, AsseLManagement, Tenant Representation, Corporate Finance and Land Services to corporate and institutional clients. 
LOCATIONS 
Offices located in Chicago, Denver, London, Los Angeles, Mexico, New York and Washington, D.C. 
INTERVIEW DATES 
Interviews will he held November 14, 1994. Resumes for invitational interviews must he submitted October 17th and 18th. 
EDUCATION 
All majors are welcome. Strong quantitative experience and sound communication skills are required. 
PRESENTATION 
A presentation outlining the Financial Analyst Program and LaSalle Partners will he held: 
Monday, October 17th 6:00 -8:00 pm Alumni Room The Morris Inn 
Chicago · London · Los Angeles · Mexico City . New York . Washington, D.C. 
·• 
suBwAY PARTY sUa 

~ 
At SUBWAY, we feel we can ~e apart of your Satur~ay 
SUBWAY's six-foot combo special is just $37.95. 
7:30 TONIGHT! 
NOTRE DAME 
vs. 
1Oth·ranked 
SMU 
Men~ Soccer 
Alumni Field-behind the JACC ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 

l 
1 Friday, October 14, 1994 The Observer • TODAY i,
page 27 FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE 1
GARY LARSON 

1 

Japanese 30 WKRP, e.g.: 45 Part of a palmist's 52 Odd Abbr. reading 53 Mass rally 
to say? Use 
premier

15 Fictional 46 Skin disease location
32 Marlins' detective playground 47 Jazz bassist 54 Located 20 Spanish for Pettiford 57 France's­
33 Geological

Spanish 48 Nora Ephron de Re
feature 22 Miss Kett et al. best seller 60 Lucie, e.g.: 
The Observer
34 Telegraph24 Corrode 49 Rocky crags Abbr.

ending 50 Lots 61 Silvery-gray26Asacred 35 Stimpy's pal scripture 36 Down, so to28 Bulldog's 

Classifieds.
speak Get answers to any three clues
cousin 40 Bro., e.g. by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­29 Odysseus' 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
rescuer 41 Inuit and Yupik 

Hey You DINGLEBERRIES!!! 
:• HERE ARE SOME THINGS TO DO... :• : "City Slickers II" "Blue" ''Waiting for Godot" ••• 
-

! -Friday and Saturday -Friday & Saturday -Thursday thru Sunday :• : -Cushing Auditorium .~~....,.:.........
-Annenburg Auditorium -':'ashington Hall ;~---.:-=~~~ : -8:00/10:30p.m. $2 -7:30/9:45p.m. $2 -8.00p.m. (2:30p.m.onSun.) ~ • 
e B"nlDENJ" tJNION IIOAJlD e 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~~ 
-: -~\/~

~~\ 
~ ~ 
... 
i 
I "1rv
~.~
" 
! I ­

<f5 ~-­
~)u 0~. <>.
~ 

~ 
. ,. l'f"*'.. 

~ ~~,... .~ . ~-­
~ 

DILBERT 
THERE FOf\E, WHEN

l CAN PREDICT THE FUTURE BY ASSUMING THAT ~ 
VIf\TUAL REALITY GETS CHEAPER THAN DATING,

f"'\ONE.Y AND MALE ~ 
~ 
50CIE.TY TS DOOMED.

HORMONE.S ARE THE. ~ 
Df\IVING FORCES FOR $
5

NE.W TECHNOLOGY ~ 
\ ...~J---------.. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Flower part 62 Moves in on 
63 Tea, hand or bath, e.g. 

1 Iron, e.g. 31 Pick users 
6 Unnamed fellow 37 Remove f:om the bulletin 
64 Garner 9 New England board 
65 Drivingsoda fountains maneuver38 Sartre novel 13 Objects of 66 Surfers' mecca repugnance 39 Debark 

15 Winter ailment 42 Belgian seaport DOWN
16Hospital's-43-gestae ward (deeds) 
1 Large plums n Lost a lap? 2 Unhidden 
44 Grant 
18 Mancinelli 45 Frank 3-Soleil opera"-e conversations (Louis XIV) 
Leandro" 
51 Toots 4 Calendar abbr. 19 Some replies 
55 Castle of St. 5 Triple-decker 20 Ipecac is one George site 
6 Not excited 21 Penned 56 Pelvic bones 
7 Agreements 23 Gathers data 58 Biblical judge a U.S. Army 25 KLM rival 59 Acquire medal 27Nod 60 Suspect 
9 Sprinkle 10 Type opening ------------11Godsof ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Asgard ---.--.--...--._.-.---r::-1 12 Particle 14 Four-time 


BILL WATTERSON 

SCOTT ADAMS 
YEAR ~0014 
IS DILBERT AVAILABLE i' HE'S BEEN 
~ 
IN THE 

HOLODECK ( SINCE 
MAA.CH. 
Gl 


Have something 
..-. 

SPORTS 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Midnight Mania 
ND basketball hopes 
If you bought men's basketball season tickets (and you knowits late-night kick..()ff who you are) you even get a free 
t-shirt.will ignite a revival But that's just the 11 o'clock By JASON KELLY euphoria, an insignificant pream­Associate Spons Editor ble to Midnight Mania. 
When the clock strikes 12, col­Going out tonight? lege basketball season officially Whaddya doing around 11? begins. At that moment, the 
They're having a band over at the Joyce Center. Some free throw and 3-point shooting contests, too, and drawings to win a trip to LA or New York. 
No cover. 
The first 1,000 people get free Blimpie's 1994-95 Notre Dame men's basketball team will be revealed to anyone who cares to watch. 
It's one of the most anticipated-or at least one of the most publicized-events 
subs. So, if you've got the munchies ... see MIDNIGHT I page 18 
a WoMEN's SoccER 
! 
J 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

In their last meeting in 1992, Michelle McCarthy(left) and the Irish lost to Portland 2-1. 

oar 
l 
I 
r 
I 
r 

ByRIANAKEY Associate Sports Editor 

Three weeks ago, today's game against No. 13 Washington looked like a stepping stone for the No. 2 Notre Dame women's soccer team. The match against the Huskies would be tough, but nothing like Sunday's game against then-No. 2 Portland would be. 
But since that time, while Notre Dame has gone 2-0-1 against top-1 0 opponents, the Pilots have taken a nose dive. 
Injuries and powerful opponents have taken their toll on Portland. 
After losing as many as four starters to injuries, including the nation's sec­ond leading scorer in forward Shannon MacMillan, Portland has lost three of its last five games and plummeted to No. 11 in the Intercollegiate Soccer Association of America rankings. 
see PORTLAND I page 18 


of note . ..
MEN'S SOCCER 
The Irish host No. 10 Southern Methodist 
See Sports Extra for all the 
tonight as they look to salvage an 
NDvs. BYU 
NCAA tournament bid. 
game day details. 

See Page 26 





