


Wednesday, August 31, 1994• Vol. XXVI No.3 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Book fair goes high-tech with campus network 
By KATIE MURPHY 
Associate News Editor 
The long lines and jumbled stacks of books which charac­terized the last two student Book Fairs have been replaced by a streamlined, computerized buying and selling system on the University's Macintosh com­puter network. 
Instead of trekking over to Stepan to rummage through hundreds of books with a wide range of prices, students can now access a student govern­ment database which lists available books, their prices and the sellers. 
"It's very user-friendly and easy to use," said Thad Nation, student government executive coordinator of intellectual life. 
Two Computer Applications (CAPP) students developed the computerized system last semester for a class project , and then donated it to student government. The system is available at all Macintosh workstations at the campus computer clusters. 
Government." Although a pass-the price they want, and their Fair next semester. 
"We're taking what is on the 
word is requested, just press phone number. Buyers must The first two Book Fairs., or­bulletin boards across campus return. The system contains in-call the selling student them­ganized for the Fall 1993 andand putting it all on the com­structions on each screen. selves in order to purchase the Spring 1994 semesters, wereputer," said Nation. 
"You can search for a book by book. proposed by former StudentThe program can be accessed title or by course or you can see Although only a small number Body President and Vice-Presi­
by double-clicking with the 
the entire listing of available of books are currently listed in dent Frank Flynn and Nikki mouse on the computer's net­books," said Nation. the system because few stu-Wellmann. during their election work server and opening the Students selling books must dents know about it, Nation campaign Approximately $30­
"Coursewear" file. Within 
enter their name, the title of anticipates that many students 40,000 worth of books was sold
"Coursewear," open "Other" 
the book, the course number, will use the computerized Book at each sale. 
and then open "Student 



U.S. talks migration with Cubans, but little else 
By DONALD ROTHBERG 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The United States talks with North Korea about nuclear technology and expanded rela­tions, but turns a cold shoulder to Cuba. President Clinton sits down for a cordial chat with Syrian President Hafez Assad, but won't exchange a word with Fidel Castro. 
Now Clinton is coming under pressure from allies and critics alike to ease the U.S. hard line toward Castro's regime. 
"It really is incongruous that the most powerful nation on earth is unable or unwilling to talk to the leader of a tiny im­poverished nation that's just 90 miles off our coast," said Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., one of the president's strongest allies in Congress. 
No booster of Clinton is Sen. Alan Simpson, the assistant Republican leader of the Sen­ate. Neither would anyone call the Wyoming senator soft on communist regimes. 
But he too wonders aloud 
why the United States can't talk 
to Cuba. 
"If we're opening the door to Vietnam and North Korea, what in the world are we doing · not talking to this guy (Castro), who's 91 miles away?" asked Simpson during an appearance on CNN. 
Under strict orders to talk 

only about migration, a mid­level U.S. delegation will meet with Cuban officials in New York on Wednesday or Thurs­day. 
If the Cubans raise other is­sues -the U.S. economic em­bargo, the possibility of discus­sions between Castro and Clin­ton -they will be cut off, says Undersecretary of State Peter Tarnoff. 
The U.S. delegation is autho­rized "to talk migration issues and that's all we will talk about," he said. 
Tarnoff echoes the belief of the Clinton administration and eight predecessors, going back to Dwight Eisenhower, that with enough U.S. pressure Cas­tro's regime will crumble. 
"We have no doubt that the people of Cuba want a change, an overwhelming majority," Tarnoff said in an interview on Public Television. 
"Of the presidents who thought he would leave soon, four of them are now dead, another four are out of office and he's still there," said Leahy. 
When Castro came to power in the final years of the Eisen­hower administration, the American public was barely aware of impending trouble in Vietnam. China and North Ko­rea were hostile powers who had been allies in a war that claimed thousands of American lives. 


LaFortune bustling with activities 
By KATE CRISHAM teamed up with Student Union tickets, and Notre Dame athlet­Assistant News Editor Board to provide an event ic wear." which will hopefully introduce "We're really excited, and we 
Complete with tarot card students to different activities hope to make the open house readers, caricature artists, and we have planned for this year," an annual event," she said. a computerized virtual reality said DuBay. booth, LaFortune Student According to DuBay, Student Center will hold an en house Students will be able to visit Activities and Student Union today from 4 
various offices and businesses Board will be working together 
p.m. 
until 10 in LaFortune, while sampling to provide a wide variety of 

p.m. 
free food and beverages. En­activities to campus this year. tertainment will be provided by "We're bringing a hypnotist 


The event the local bands to campus, and we're also try­will be held in Rockem'Sockem' Robots and ing to get the Indigo Girls and an attempt to Cliff Erikson. Toad the Wet Sprocket to come bBtter famil­"Students will also be able to to Notre Dame this year," she iarize stu­have their fortune told, play said. dents with the Karen Dubay Virtual Reality, and experience building, ac-other novelty events like carica­"Basically, we'll be working cording to ture artists," said DuBay. with Dave, Matt, and Tyler to Student Activities Programmer "We will also be having door fill in the gaps and help bring Karen DuBay. prizes for American Airline fun events and entertainment 
"Student Activites has tickets, CD players, concert to Notre Dame," she said. 


Women's study class added 
By MYRNA MALONEY Caputi said. also been scheduled who spe­News Writer "The material, therefore, in­cializes in the question of body cludes some women's history, image and sexuality, according 
Introduction to Women's attention to women's current to Caputi. Studies aims to give students a social status and feminist the­taste of the broad dicipline of ory; all of which are considered "My hope for the semester is women's studies, according to while remaining sensitive to the to demonstrate the academic political science professor Mary complexities of race, class, geo­rigor of women's studies. We Caputi. graphical location and sexual in the program see it as an 
orientation," she said. essential part of a college like 
This course is being offered Texts studied throughout the Saint Mary's, "Caputi said. for the first time this semester semester include Betty The material covered in the at Saint Mary's College. Friedan's, "The Feminine 200 level course is aimed at 
"The class will teach students Mystique;" "Orlando: A Biog­sophomores but is offered to all to think about gender as a criti­raphy," by Virginia Woolf; and students regardless of previous cal category by analyzing vari­Kim Chernin's, "The Hungry exposure to women's studies, ous empitical and theoretical Self: Women, Eating, and according to Caputi, and does approaches to women's issues," Identity." A guest speaker has fulfill a core requirement. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, August 31, 1994 

•Inside Column 

Conversation at the 
salad bar 
She looks really familiar. Wait ... what was her name? It's there ... right on the tip of your tongue. And she's looking at you like she recognizes you, but then, maybe that's your imagination 
No, she defmitely recognizes you. Where do you know her from? Actually, you don't remem­ber seeing her around last semester. In fact, you are pretty darn positive that you did not see her at all last year. 
Stop. Freshman year. That is it. It is all coming back now. She went to the formal with the really annoying guy down the hall and halfway through the evening, he disappeared but she stuck around and hung out with all your friends and everyone had a great time. Come to think of it, she was in your Western Civ class and had the same T.A. as you. And you even wound up studying for the fmal together because you just happened to be sitting at the same table in the library one night. 
She is smiling now. (At you, you are positive of that.) You say a tentative "Hi." She waves back, comes over, reintroduces herself. The whole Pastaria thing is really confusing her and she can't quite figure out where they put the Grape Nuts. She was away last year. In Austria, Innsbruck to be exact. How was it? Great. The best year of her life. Yeah, she traveled a lot. Even went to Ireland. No, she wasn't there for St. Patrick's Day. But she did see U2's Windmill Lane Studio in Dublin. 
Yeah, it was kinda weird for her coming home and everything. She spent almost two hours in the grocery store just looking at all the stuff you could make by just adding water. And words could not describe how great it was to eat for under two bucks at Taco Bell again. 
Nah, she's not fluent in German, probably never will be. You hav«:l to be pretty dedicated to the language to be fluent. But hopefully, she'll go back next summer and get a job in a hotel or something. Yeah, you should definitely go to Europe or somewhere she tells you. Do that whole "Find Yourself' thing. Learn to real­ly take care of yourself. Before she left, she could never even imagine traveling alone. But she tried it for ten days or so; it really wasn't that bad at all. Some Australian guys even bought her dinner a couple of times because she did all the translating for them in Vienna. 
It's weird to be back though, you know? She couldn't remember which building was Flanner and which one was Grace or where D2 was. People look at her like they recognize her but they haven' t seen her in so long that they're not sure how to act. Chances are, she totally remembers everyone's faces. She's a junior now, which for her is a completely mind-bog­gling concept. Her sophomore year is just gone. She only just DARTed for the first ever two days ago, if you can believe that. 
It's like a time warp, she says. left. She looks back on the past year in amaze­ment, not really believing that it all happened to HER, just a normal kid from suburbia. Sometimes she feels really old and out of place, but that will pass eventually, she hopes. meanwhile, she's just taking it as it all comes, trying not to have too many expectations about anything. She's glad you said hi though, and now you're glad too. You'll see her around, you say. She smiles and says, "Yeah. Definitely." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Today's Staff 
News Laura Fergusen Gwen Norgle Sports George Dohrmann 
Viewpoint Suzy Fry Lab Tech Scott Mendenhall 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

By Krista Nannery Viewpoinr Copy Editor  
Like she never In the  

Production Kim Massman Jackie Moser 
Accent Mary Good 
Graphics Chris Mullins 
• World at a Glance 

Agriculture Department striving for more nutritious school lunches 
WASHINGTON 

The timetable for healthier school lunches should be moved up, a nutrition-advocacy group said Tuesday, citing 41 schools across the nation that are already improv­ing nutrition for students. Mark Epstein of Public Voice for Food and Health Policy applauded the Agriculture Department's recent initiative to improve school lunches, but said students shouldn't have to wait until the program's 1998 dead­line arrives.Many schools across the country are serving healthier meals, ,.,...,.._;;;., ____; and students are eating them, Epstein said at a news conference. But still, added Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., too many schools offer children a choice between "green glop and gray glop." Leahy chairs the Senate Agriculture Committee, which oversees the school-lunch program. The Public Voice report said the schools it cited "prove ... school lunches can be made healthier and better, something a lot of us did not see when we were growing up." Carolyn Gump, school food service director for Greater Latrobe, Pa., said "creativity is what it takes to meet dietary guidelines in a school district." Students were enlisted to serve as role models, to taste-test foods, write menus and organize special nationality days, she said. Cutting back on fat can be as simple as adding more fruits and vegetables to the meals, she said, and children will eat healthy foods they have tested be-
Poll says Richards, Bush gap narrowing 
AUSTIN, Texas 
Democratic Gov. Ann Richards and Republican challenger George Bush, a son of the former president, are locked in a tight race for governor, according to the latest Texas Poll. Richards has a slight lead, 4 7 percent to 43 percent, in the poll conducted Aug. 18-27, but the poll director calls it a dead heat because each candidate's figure is sub­

ject to a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. Ten percent are undecided, and less than 1 per­cent say they plan to vote for someone else, according to the media-sponsored poll of 757 likely voters. Bush's climb over the past 10 months from 39 percent support to 43 percent support could be insignificant considering the margin of error. But Candace Windel, the poll direc­tor, said, "Clearly the gap has narrowed," based on find­ings that Bush was becoming better known and closing in on the last days of the survey. Bush launched his televi­sion ad campaign on Aug. 15, a week after Richards' started. The election is Nov. 8. 
Simpson defense loses bid to review records 
LOS ANGELES 
A judge rejected a request from O.J. Simpson's lawyers to examine a police detective's military records, ruling Tuesday that they have no bearing on defense sugges­tions that the officer is a racist and a liar. "Having heard the argument by counsel for the defendant alleging racial animus and propensity to fabricate ... the court reviewed the military file and found no reports or other informa­tion relevant to the issues in this case," Superior Court Judge Lance Ito said in a written order.He said he weighed the privacy rights of Detective Mark Fuhrman against the rights of Simpson to gather evidence for his defense and decided against turning over Fuhrman's Marine Corps records. 
• Indiana Weather 
Wedne<iday, Aug. 31 

Accu-Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
• National Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Aug. 31. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 

-rT' ........................... COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather,lnc. 
forehand. Gump said one popular meal is chicken nuggets. By switch­ing from six nuggets to three nuggets plus one baked drumstick, the fat content was cut from 40 per­cent to 28 percent, and the meal remains popular, she said. Indeed, over the last four years school lunch participation has risen by 800 students a day in Latrobe, she said. Many schools base their lunch pro­grams on commodities provided by the Agriculture Department. The report found that nationally, between 1990 and 1994, that pro­gram had increased the shares of meat, fruits and vegetables provid­ed, while the shares of cheese, but­
ter and oil and grains had been reduced. The USDA school lunch program, announced in June, calls for schools to meet nutrition guidelines by 1998, but Epstein said there "is no reason to condemn four more classes of students to meals that are too high in fat, saturated fat and sodium." While USDA has doubled its shipment of fresh fruits and vegetables in the past year, that still amounts to only two more apples a year for each student, said Epstein, head of the advocacy group that promotes nutrition programs. 
He called for further increases in fresh fruits and veg­etables in the program and urged that schools be re­quired to meet nutrition guidelines by the 1996-97 school year. 
Rosa Parks assaulted at her home yesterday 
DETROIT 
Rosa Parks, whose refusal to give up her bus seat to a white man sparked the modern civil rights movement, was assaulted at home Tuesday night and treated for fa­cial injuries. Parks, 81, was taken to Detroit Receiving Hospital, where she was initially listed in good condition with swelling on the right side of her face. She was re­leased later Tuesday. Parks was upstairs in her home be­tween 8 p.m. and 8:20 p.m. when she heard a noise downstairs, said Police Chief Isaiah McKinnon. When she went downstairs to investigate, a man was inside her house, reeking of alcohol, the chief said. Her back door had been knocked off its hinges. The man told her some­one else had knocked down the door and he was there to protect her, and then he hit her, he said. The assailant fled on foot with about $50, McKinnon said. No arrest had been made by late Tuesday. 'You would hope that wouldn't happen to anyone," said Cliff Russell, a spokesman for Mayor Dennis Archer. "I don't know what to say about anyone who would do something like that to Rosa Parks." 
Switz City residents face water shortage 
SWITZ CITY, Ind. 
Classes at White River Valley High School resumed to­day as the community continued to battle problems with its water supply. Work on two new water wells could be­gin as early as Thursday after events combined to knock out both of the town's wells, officials said. A boil order was still in effect for about 400 residents today, two days after lightning struck the town's only working pump. The boil order will continue until the new wells are dug. Classes at the school were canceled Monday, said Don Blanton, president of the Switz City Town Council. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources was expected to conduct an archaeological survey today, the first step needed to build two new wells, Blanton said. 
Atlanta 95 72 Denver 82 54 New Orleans 90 72 Baltimore 80 56 Houston 89 75 New York 78 60 Boston 77 59 Los Angeles 81 69 Philadelphia 79 59 
Chicago 67 61 Miami 87 74 Phoenix 104 86 Columbus 78 53 Minneapolis 68 59 St. Louis n 61 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 




P---------------------~------------~--------------------------------------------~------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, August 31, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 
Japanese to unveil plan for reparations 
BY MARl YAMAGUCHI 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 
Japan was expected to an­nounce Wednesday a $1 billion spending plan in response to Asian war victims' demands for reparations. 
However, the proposal al­ready has been denounced by activist groups for failing to compensate individual victims. 
The funding, to be spread out over a decade, reportedly fo­


theRobert 
an original Silverprint. Also post cards and playing cards

Morris Gallery 
available. 
Limited Editions 
The Old Bag Factory 
1100 North Chicago Avenue Goshen, Indiana 46526 • 219-534-5648 
Fine Art Photo Silverprints 

Local Artists 
Hours: 9-5 Mon.-Fri.; 9-4 Sat.; Evenings by Apt. 
1\ 10°/o off for students with ID! A 


r--------------,
1 Wife ~£fn l!ork Wimes 1 
I DELIVERED FOR ONLY 40 CENTS/DAY MON-SAT! 1 
0 MON-FRI: $2"]2'1 0 MON-SUN: $7010 I 0 MON-SAT: $3160 0 SUN ONLY: $3850 I 
Fall delivery begins Mon., Sept. S'J. & ends December 16'' I
I . (No deliveryfall or tlumksgiving breaks)
I I=~HECKS PAYABLE TO: CITY NEWS SERVICE 
L 
I IClip mul mail to: City News Seroice, 1147 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend, IN46615 'Thk upfor offcampus students available at info desk in LaFortune" .J 
I83ce <Bl WCO)RlUlmtlt<e<elf ®]p(Q)ffil~CO)Jf if(Q)Jf IRCHA <Q)Jr c<0)IDliDlJfJ.IWlCBl.trftCO) IDl~ 
'This year, some ofyour peers, maybe even afriend or someone you know from down the hall will decide to become Cailiollil.c through the RCIA. The way it works is, we all learn together from each other ... you, as a sponsor, would answer questions ( ?) but you'd probably discover that you had some questions too. Which would be a good thing. 
Sponsors serve as friends, companions and guides to other students as they prepare to take new steps in their lives of faith. 
Sponsor Infonnation Sessions 
RCIA: for students who wish to become Catholic Christians 
t~onday, September 5, 6:30 pm, Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Cente or Thursday, September 8, 10:00 om, 103 Hesburgh Library 
Confirmation: for baptized Catholics who wish to receive the 
~­
0MPUS MINISTRY 
Sacrament of Confirmation 
Monday, September 12 at 6:30 pm, in the Faculty Dining Room which is upstairs in the South Dining Hall 
Questions? 
Call or see: Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. Office of Camnus Ministry 103 Hesburgh Library ­1-7800 or 1-5056 

cuses on various "friendship projects" and excludes any di­rect government compensation to individuals who suffered as a result of Japan's World War II aggression. 
Japan maintains that com­pensation issues were settled in postwar treaties. It has resisted any direct government repara­tions to individuals, fearing that would open the door to endless payments to war victims rang­ing from forced laborers to women conscripted to work in 
Decorate Your Dorm 
with a black & white poster from 
front-line brothels. 
An outline of the spending package was to be announced Wednesday, Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama's office said. 
Accounts of the proposal have been circulating for more than a month. The reported $1 bil­lion price tag for a 10-year package is not that significant when compared to overall Japanese aid to the region. In 1992 alone, Japan spent $5.5 billion in aid to Asia. 

RECREATIONAL SPORTS UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTRAMURALS CLUB SPORTS CHALLENGE U FITNESS RECREATION SERVICES LOCATED IN THE JACC 1ST FLOOR  



~------~------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, August 31, 1994 
Pandora's China resuming talks on human rights 
continued from page 1 
Pandora's book. 
"We have a whole variety of books for Core classes or what­ever," Wilkins said. 
Returned or traded books must be in good condition. Highlighting and writing are permissible, but water dam­aged books are not accepted. 
Most used books are avail­able for approximately 25-30 percent off the cover price. Special orders usually take 3-5 days, although any orders re­ceived by 6 p.m. tomorrow will be in the store on Saturday, Sept. 3. 
Pandora's hours are 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Sat­urday and 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Sunday. 
ASSORTED COLORS 
Nationa11•• 3-Ring Binder 
•81/2"x11" 
• 
Double inside 

• 
Available in seven colors 


0400-4507 
ggc 
National· 

OfficeMax Everyday Low Price 

1r---------­
I
LOW PRICE 

I I 
I GUARANTEE I 
We'll match any local compet~or's advertised price on an identical ~em, or we'll cheerfully refund the difference if the ~em was purchased from us within seven days of the compet~or's ad. Ad errors, closeouts and clearances are excluded. 
CICopyright 1994 OfficeMax. Inc. We reserve the right to limtt quantities. Not responsible for printing or typographical errors. 

By CHARLENE FU Associared Press 
BEIJING 

China on Tuesday told Commerce Secretary Ronald Brown it was ready to resume talks with the United States on the sensitive topic of human rights, discussions that the Chinese suspended a half-year ago. 
The surprise decision seemed intended to reward Brown for pushing President Clinton to sever the link between trade and China's human rights prac­tices. It also was seen as China's way of thanking the United States for Brovvn's visit, which both sides say marks a new era in Chinese-U.S. busi­ness ties. 
Brovvn, leading an entourage of two dozen American busi­ness executives, is the first Cabinet member to visit China since Clinton decided in May not to make the annual renewal of China's most-favored nation trade status contingent on improvements in its human rights practices. 
Clinton's policy change was an important boost to American corporations seeking to expand or establish themselves in China, the world's fastest-grow­ing economy and biggest single consumer market. In subse­quent months, businesses rang­ing from Boeing to Wal-Mart have announced agreements with the Chinese. 
Brown told a news confer­ence he was "exhilarated by the results" of his trip so far. He said nearly $5 billion in business deals have been con­cluded in the first three days of his eight-day trip, but did not give details 
"We came with high expec­tations about our ability to have a profoundly positive impact on the relationship between China and the United States. We have already met and surpassed those expectations," he said. 
Brown was informed of the decision to reopen the human rights dialogue minutes before the news conference. 
He said Foreign Minister Qian Qichen would be visiting the United States at the end of "September for talks, but said he 
had no other details. 
China and the United States have been holding informal dis­cussions on human rights since 1990. But that dialogue was suspended after Beijing reacted with fury to a meeting between 
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State John Shattuck with leading dis­sident Wei Jingsheng during a visit in February. 
The flap over the Shattuck­Wei meeting helped taint the subsequent visit of Secretary of State Warren Christopher in March, when dozens of dis­sidents were detained or put under surveillance. Many of those detained remain in cus­tody. 
Smith Corona 
Word Processor 
• 
MS-DOS file format compatibility 

•12" 
CRT 24-line x SO-character display 

• 
Auto Spell &Thesaurus • Model# PWP3850 


0202-5891 List Price $599.99 
OfficeMax Everyday Low Price 
COLLEGE RULED 
12 PACK VOICE ACTIVATED 
OlympUS OLYMPUSMead 5Subject 
.8~!;!~~~~~ba~~o~nt ,t0

Notebook 
• 
Feather-light, flexible barrel.·.~/ ;// •81/2"x 11" 

• 
Spiral bound 

• 
Assorted colors ~_2.// • 200 sheets 


List Price $3.60 ~/ -~ 
0601-6875 
1oo1-1 oo6 Black ~1i._,_ ,·_<r
List Price $3.80 
1001-0999 Blue . ;;p~_
.V..l:('Y 
1001-1015 Red //:iJfii/'7 · 
. F'/Y/-f 
~~ ,/ :.!'' 1/B. ·cy
<~:·:024 Fine Point:lue
7gc
nead 
1001-1033 Fine Point Black 
OfficeMax Everyday Low Price OfficeMax Everyday Low Price OfficeMax Everyday Low Price 
Texas Instruments 
99
#TI-85 Graphic Calculator $99. 
0203-6193 List Price $135.00 


OfficelVlax® 
a
Savings is the Bottom Line!® 
------· --­
SPIRAL BOUND PAGES 
Day Runner Canvas Planner 
•Includes August 1994-July 1995 calendar 
• 
Telephone/address directory 

• 
Black, gray or blue •51/2'x81/2' 


0403-9748 List Price $16.00


$1199 
OfficeMax Everyday Low Price 
Special Hours For Back-To-School Shopping Now Through September 11th Sun.10 am-6 pm • Mon.-Fri. 8 am-10 pm • Sat. 9 am-9 pm 
NEW HAMPSHIRE 
MANCHESTER NASHUA PORTSMOUTH 
South Willow Street Willow Springs Plaza. Durgin Square. Woodbury north of 1-293, in front Daniel Webster Highway, Ave., north of 1-95, of Home Depot north of Pheasant Lane Mall next to Shaws 
(603) 626-6110 (603) 888-5350 (603) 431-2920 
• BRAINTREE • BROCKTON • DANVERS • DEDHAM
BOSTON METRO AREA 
• DORCHESTER • NATICK • SAUGUS • SOMERVILLE 


Wednesday, August 31, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Jackson may plan Clinton challenge in 1996 
By jOHN KING 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

At a recent fund-raiser, the talk in one circle turned quick­ly to whether President Clinton would face a 


Democratic Bill Clinton primary chal­lenge in 1996. "Are you talking about the Harkin rumors or Kerrey rumors?" a Democratic senator in the group asked. 
Clinton's political troubles and worries within the Democratic ranks have spawned persistent speculation that he might be challenged. Last week two-time Democratic candidate Jesse Jackson said he is considering a primary chal­lenge or even an independent candidacy. 
"One of the ways to get the attention of this administration and the country is to challenge the direction and priorities of the leadership," Jackson said Friday. 
Beyond Jackson, the rumors -and there is little evidence they are anything more -cen­ter most often on Democratic Sen. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, who lost to Clinton in the 1992 primaries and has had a stormy relationship with him since. "Certainly the Kerrey talk is everywhere," said former Sen. Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts, another 1992 Clinton primary rival. For the record, Tsongas is happy to say, unequivocally, that "I would not run in '96." 
So is Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa, yet another of the 1992 Democratic candidates. His name recently surfaced in ru­mors that a Democratic senator was planning to challenge Clin­ton. Hogwash, says Harkin. 
Kerrey, however, isn't so emphatic. 
"There is unquestionably a break -we are not close," Kerrey says of his relationship with Clinton. "But the specula­tion that I am going to chal­lenge him in the primaries is completely untrue."So then he absolutely, positively, won't run? 
"I can't imagine the circum­stances," Kerrey said. "I really 

Welcome Students 
Now That You're Back 
It's Time to Start Planning 
... for Fall Break! 
Consider: Service and Work for Justice 
Participate in: 
Social Concerns Seminars
, 
• One-Credit Experiential Learning and Service Opportunities in Appalachia, Washington D.C., and Chicago 
Further information and applications available at the Center for Social Concerns 

can't. But I have learned never to say never." 
According to one Democratic activist, a party fund-raiser dis­gruntled with Clinton recently approached Tsongas to see if he was interested in a 1996 chal­lenge. 
According to the activist, who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty, the fund-raiser, Chicago commodities broker Richard Dennis, said Kerrey was his second choice. 
Asked if the account was ac­curate, Tsongas hesitated and said, "I would not recall one conversation from another." 

Deputy sought for Whitewater 
By JOHN SOLOMON Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Hoping to counter criticism, newly appointed Whitewater prosecutor Kenneth Starr is searching for a top deputy with prosecuting experience and no ties to Republican politics, according to lawyers familiar with the effort. 
The search comes as the staff of his predecessor, Robert Fiske, has begun its exodus. With a smooth transition well under way, at least four key Fiske staffers have departed or are preparing to do so. 
Starr, a Republican-ap­pointed appellate judge who later argued Bush administra­tion cases before the Supreme Court as solicitor general, has been criticized sharply by Democrats for his ties to the GOP. 
Before his appointment, Starr talked about possibly running for the Republican nomination for a Senate seat in Virginia and later was listed as co­chairman for a GOP House can­didate's campaign. 
In addition, Democrats have questioned a meeting between Republican lawmakers and one of the judges who appointed Starr to replace Fiske earlier this month. 
While widely respected as a lawyer, Starr has no experi­ence as a prosecutor. 
Several lawyers familiar with Starr's thinking, who spoke only on condition of anonymity, said he wanted to counter the criticisms by naming a widely respected deputy. 
The lawyers said Starr has been quietly soliciting names of seasoned prosecutors who rose through the career ranks or are Democratic appointees now in private practice. 
''I'm not necessarily certain this person will be perceived so much as a Democrat as just a non-Republican, someone who has had a great deal of experi­ence in prosecuting cases, high-profile and tough cases," one lawyer said. 
"The one thing he doesn't want is someone who has an identity as a Republican," the lawyer added. 
Starr has spent the last sev­eral days in Little Rock, Ark., where the Whitewater inves­tigation is based, reviewing cases files and working on the transition. It is not believed he has begun interviewing pos­sible candidates, the lawyers said. 


rs~6;;l ri~;~-;l rss~~, rs~9~l 
IGetup to four more p1zz~s for SS each.l 1 Second Medium only SS. 1 1 Any second large only $6. 1 1 Additional toppings S1.19 each. 1 Val1d on Carry-out or Delivery. ........_ I Valid on Carry-out or Delivery........_ I Valid on Carry-out or Delivery. ........_ I IValid on Carry-out or Delivery........._I Expires 9/10/94 J>l,u;l I Expires 9/10/94 J>l,u;l I Expires 9/10/94 J>i,u;l Expires 9/10/94 J>i,u;l I 
L-------~.J L-------~.J L-------~.J L-------~.J ~~~~~~~~ 
··----4 t • •~--------.......-.....--• •-a...-....:_-.....-._. •-• 1 a o • ~ 11 t" • I' Ill' • 11 r ~ • r r--• 11 I' • • y' 1 1 • t ~ ~ f 

page 6 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, August 31, 1994 





Get Back to School with Everything You Need to Succeed. 


Assorted 8" Plants 
8" Hanging Baskets ....................................... 6.99 10" Tropical Floor Plants ..............................8.99 12" Assorted Plants .................................... 19.99 




Men's Notre Dame Apparel Other colleges as well. Choose from in-stock assorted styles and designs. 3. 99-99.99 EVERYDAY, now 2. 99­74.99. 

% 
OFF
EVERYDAY PRICE 
Texas Instruments Calculators 
Tl-36 Scientific Calculator ........... 18.97 
Tl-81 Graphing Calculator .........68.97 
Tl-82 Graphics Calculator ..........87.97 
Tl-85 Graphics Calculator ..........98.97 
TI·30X Solar Calculator 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS
• 

MICHIANA AREA 
•Mishawaka-Grape 
Rd., just south of Douglas 

•South 
Bend-Cleveland at Portage Rd. 


PRICES GOOD 6 A.M. WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31 THRU SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1994 





page 7
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Wednesday, August 31, 1994 


The Stuff Mom 


Forgot To Pack 
r-------------------,
!sl OFF ~~~~~ ! 
I with Bonus Buck on any Wednesday, September 14,19941 I one item in stock selling I 1 for 9.97 or more* I 
I 
Limit one item per Bonus Buck. No additional Bonus Bucks in store.
... __________________ _
'Excluding alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, prescriptions, I 1 previous purchases, existing layaways and gas station. 5 412 50 10619 2 

r-------------------,
:$2. OFF .J 
MEijER : 
1 BONUSBUCKI 
Bonus Buck good thru
I . Wednesday, September 14,19941
with Bonus Buck on anyI one item in stock selling I I for 19.97 or more* I 
I limit one item per Bonus Buck. No additional Bonus Bucks in store. 'Excluding alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, prescriptions, 
I
._ __________________ 
1 previous purchases, existing layaways and gas station. 5 a .J 


r-------------------,
:$JOFF B~~!!~ : 
I with Bonus Buck on any Wednesday, September 14, 19941 I one item in stock selling I
I 
I 
1for 29.97 or more* I Lim~ one item per Bonus Buck. No additional Bonus Bucks in store. 1
._ __________________ _
'Excluding alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, prescriptions, 1 previouspurchases,existinglayawaysandgasstation. 5 4125010621 
5 .J 



r-------------------,

~~~!.~~ ! 
I with Bonus Buck on any Wednesday, September 14, 19941 1one item in stock selling 1 { 1for 39.97 or more* 
Limit one item per Bonus Buck. No additional Bonus Bucks in store.I 'Excluding alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, prescriptions, Lreviouspurchases,existinglayawaysandgasstation. 5 4125010622 2 

r===================,

p~:ssoFF ;~~~~: 
I 'th B B k Wednesday, September 14 19941
WI onus uc on any 
· I one item in stock sellingI for 49.97 or more* 
I 
limit one item per Bonus Buck. No additional Bonus Bucks in store. 
._ __________________ _
'Excluding alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, prescriptions, 
9
1 previous purchases, existing layaways and gas station. 5 2 3 

More than 40 stores in one. Over I 00,000 products priced within yourOpen whenever the urge grabs you,24 hours a day, 364 days a year• 
MICHIANA AREA 
SOUTH BEND -Cleveland at Portage Rd. ® MISHAWAKA· Grape Rd. just South of Douglas 


-------~------------~~--------------~------~----------------------------.-----~--~-----, 
page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, August 31, 1994 
EconoiDic setbacks feared 
By MICHAEL WHITE 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

The merger of defense giants Lockheed Corp. and Martin Marietta raised fear of layoffs in recession-weary California and other states where the companies are economic main­stays. 
The $10 billion merger is expected to result in some job eliminations, company officials said. Workers wondered -and officials didn't say -where, when and how many. 
"I am concerned, not only for my job, but for other jobs here," said Steve Cantrell, an administrative analyst at Lockheed's Marietta, Ga., plant. The new company, Lockheed Martin, will become the nation's largest defense contractor, with 170,000 em­ployees and $23 billion in an­nual sales. 
Executives of the companies, which sell defense, space and other high-tech products to government and civilian cus­tomers, said the merger will allow them to cut costs. 
There were no immediate plans for layoffs pending com­pletion of a transition study, said Steve Chaudet, Lockheed's vice president for public affairs. 
However, the 260 employees at Lockheed's headquarters in suburban Calabasas, Calif., already have been warned in a memo that some may lose their jobs and others will be trans­ferred when the headquarters for the new company opens in Martin Marietta's Bethesda, Md., offices. 
For nearly a week workers have heard rumors of some impending change, but none knew the specifics until Tues­day, said Annette Steifbold, associate director of market research. 
"It's been a building crescen­do for the past few days. Because there was nothing def­inite known it was just specula­tion and the usual, 'What's in it for me, how's this going to affect my life,"' she said. 
"Some people are very op­timistic and excited about the new opportunities and in oth­ers I sense apprehension," she said. 
News of the merger drew a similar response at Lockheed Missiles & Space Inc. in Sun­nyvale, Calif. 
"People don't know for sure what will happen. There's a lot to look at and a lot of things to discuss. Right now the reaction is still, 'Gee,"' said engineer Robert Garcia, who learned of the merger from a newscast while driving to work. 
The merger, which still must receive regulatory and share­holder approval, reflects a trend of consolidation among defense contractors as U.S. mil­itary spending continues to shrink in the post-Cold War era. 
The timing couldn't be worse for California, just beginning to show signs of recovery from a five-year recession largely brought on by those very cut­backs. 
"It's just another indicator of the major turmoil and re­structuring that's going on in the aerospace industry," said Jack Kyser, chief economist for the Economic Development Corp. of Los Angeles Countv. 
Active NAACP board member settles bias suit similar to Chavis' 
By SONYA ROSS Executive Director Benjamin harassing her, defaming her duct" at the civil rights organi­Associated Press Chavis for inking a similar set­and firing her because she filed zation. She sought more than tlement without the board's sex discrimination complaints $2 million in back pay and 
WASHINGTON knowledge. with federal and local employ­damages. 

The NAACP settled a sex dis­ment officials. crimination suit against a mem­In an October 1993 lawsuit, The harassment, Diles al­The NAACP and Trotter, of St. ber of its board of directors Harriet Diles accused board leged, was part of long-stand­Louis, denied Diles' allegations three days before it fired member Gentry W. Trotter of ing "policy and pattern of con-in court documents. 

-;;;,;;:·-'!.All'... ~ 
LIMITED TIME PRICES AVAilABLE TO NO STUDENTS WHEN YOU PRESENT YOUR STUDENT ID CARD! _
,__.. ____ 


wii•TEiABLECOVERs I FREE I 
I
s~~~~ 880 I Glfl OFFER! 
MUIT PREIENT ITUDENT ID AT TIME OF PURCHAIE ' BRING IN THIS COUPON I ONE DOZEN SOLID COLOR LATEX I AND RECEIVE Aso OUNCE ' 
SMOKE TINTED
HELIUM BALLOONS 
SAVE I PLASTIC I $2.18 •4.99 I PITCHER I 
MUIT PREIENT ITUDENT ID AT TIME OF PURCHAIE I ".....-----. 
CREPE SiREiMERs n! , 1·i I 1 REG 2 FOR'll H_f)! I
sac I=..aupp,...~....-·--n I 
UIT PREIENT ITUDENT ID AT TIME OF PURCHAIE ~':...~· c;;:-Sapt~attllic1 
FACTORY CARD OUTLET INDIAN RIDGE SHOPPING CENTER 
HURRY! OFFERS EXPIRE SEPTEMBER 31, 1994 
5816 GRAPE ROAD (NEXT TO VENTURE) 
(218) 271. 2830 
• 
$5.70 per hour 


• meet new people 
• 
flexible evening hours 

• training 
• 
no experience necessary 

• real life experience 
Please join us for an infonnal 

OPEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSION 

Wednesday, August 31st 4:00-6:00p.m. at the Annual Fund Phone Center (Southeast corner of Badin Hall) 

PMK.e ee«tct 
PMK.e~ 
If you have any questions, please call: Kent Goffinet ( 631-793 8) or Katy Hart ( 631-7241) 

Lli;;;;;;;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 


Wednesday, August 31, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS page 9 


The Catholic Community at Notre Dame Welcomes You! 
Are you considering being baptized? 
Are you thinking about becoming a Catholic? 
Ifso, you are welcome to find out how this can happen at Notre Dame. 
You are invited to an information session: 

Sunday, September 4, 4:30p.m. 
Notre Dame Room -Lafortune Student Center 
or 

Wednesday, September 7, 10:00 p.m. 
Campus Ministry Office -103 Hesburgh Library 
Questions? Call Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 1-7800 or 1-5056 




The Observer 
is looking for 
News Writers 
Ifinterested in writing news stories for The Observer, please call Sarah Doran at 631-5323. 


Irish leader visits New York 
By TIM SULLNAN 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Joseph Cahill, a leader of the Irish Republican Army, flew into New York on Tuesday on a rare waiver of a U.S. ban against those linked to the out­lawed group's acts of terror. 
"It's a private visit," were the frail-looking Cahill's only words to reporters before he walked to a car il). the parking lot and was driven away. 
Cahill and Patrick Treanor, a member of Sinn Fein, the IRA's legal, political wing, were issued limited, single-entry visas Tuesday "to enable Sinn Fein officials to gain support in the U.S. for an end to violence in Northern Ireland," a U.S. official said. 
There were no plans for the two to meet with U.S. officials. 
The 74-year-old Cahill, a leader of the IRA's provisional wing, arrived amid reports that 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS!!! 
DO YOU WANT TO IMPRESS YOUR FRIENDS AND FAMILY BY TELUNG THEM YOU VOLUNTEER IN THE ADMISSIONS OFFICE AT NOTRE DAME? HERE'S YOUR CHANCE TO HAVE FUN AND ASSIST ADMISSIONS AT THESAME TIME. TinS VOLUNTEER PRO­GRAM IS RESPONSIBLE FOR SEVERAL MAJOR RECRUITMENT PROJECTS, AND WE NEED STUDENT VOLUNTEERS FOR THE UPCOMING YEAR. IF THIS SOUNDS INTERESTING TO YOU, COME TO OUR OPEN HOUSE TO LEARN MORE m 
OPEN HOUSE: TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994 
7:30PM 
ROOM 123 EARTH SCIENCE 


(BROWNSON COURTYARD) 

IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS OR CANNOT MAKE THE MEETING, CALL ANNE PETERSON AT 1-7403 
the IRA was on the verge of calling a cease-fire in its long fight to oust the British from Northern Ireland. 
Stepping off an Aer Lingus flight from Dublin at Kennedy International Airport, Cahill was met by half a dozen unidentified people and exited quickly through a side door of the terminal with a woman on each side, holding his arm and hand. 
It was not clear whether Treanor arrived with him, but Richard McAuley, spokesman for Sinn Fein in Belfast, said Treanor was traveling with Cahill. 
Cahill is the most senior IRA­related figure to visit the United States since Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams made a two-day visit last February -also on a limited visa. Mitchel McGlaughlin, Sinn Fein's north­ern chairman, visited Cleveland and Washington in May. 
Adams said Monday that he had met with IRA leaders and told them the time was right for an end of the violence. 
A U.S. official who asked not to be named said Cahill was issued a special waiver of a rule that barred him from entry because of a criminal past. He has been convicted of killing a police officer, of gunrunning and membership in the IRA. 
Adams had never been con­victed of a criminal offense. 
The official said President Clinton's decision to grant the visa was discussed with Irish and British officials before the visas were issued. The official refused to say whether the countries signed off on the deci­sion. 
The provisional wing of the IRA, the "provos," was founded 25 years ago, long after the Irish Republic gained its inde­pendence. It has been responsi­ble for many acts of terrorism in its effort to force Britain to relinquish control of Northern Ireland. 

Speculation growing on IRA's cease-fire 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 
BELFAST 
Reports that the IRA was about to call a cease-fire after a quarter-century of blood­shed put nerves on edge Tuesday in Northern Ireland's majority Protestant commu­nity. 
Expectations of a break­through rose as the United States granted a visa to vet­eran IRA man Joseph Cahill. Arriving in New York, Cahill said it was a private visit, but the timing suggested it was part of a carefully chore­ographed build-up to an an­nouncement. 
In Dublin, Irish Prime Min­ister Albert Reynolds declared: "I believe we are poised for peace and in a very short time we will be able to make an entirely new beginning on this island." 
That enthusiasm was not shared in Protestant districts of Belfast, where any agree­ment acceptable to the IRA is automatically suspect. 
"Sure the English want rid of us. They'll do a deal with the IRA if the loyalist people let them. But we won't let them," said Jimmy Creighton, a Protestant community work­er in the pro-British Glencairn district. 
Speculation became intense after Gerry Adams, leader of the Sinn Fein party, said Monday that he had met with IRA leaders and told them the time was right to "break the political, constitutional and military stalemate and create the potential to eradicate the underlying causes of conflict." 
Adams, whose party is the main political ally of the Irish Republican Army, said the group's leaders promised a swift response. 
In an interview with Ire­land's RTE television Tuesday, Adams made three demands of Britain following a cease­fire. 
"There must be immediate recognition in a meaningful way of our democratic man­date," Adams said. 
"There must be an imme­diate end to censorship and issues like demilitarization, all the issues of injustice -all immediate." 
Adams did not elaborate, but he appeared to be seeking an early meeting between Sinn Fein and the British govern­ment, a reduction in British troop deployments in Catholic areas, and an end to a ban on Sinn Fein-IRA supporters' voices being broadcast. 
Many among the Protestant majority feared the IRA would not suspend its terror cam­paign to reunite the province with the largely Roman Catholic Irish republic unless it had won concessions from the British government. 
The Ulster Defense Associa­tion, one of the two main Protestant-based paramilitary organizations, warned of civil war ifthe IRA had its way. 
"Do you, the Irish, seriously believe we will sit back and al­low ourselves to be coerced and persuaded into an all-Ire­land?'' the group, which also is outlawed, said in a state­ment to news media. 
"The vast majority of people in Northern Ireland don't want civil war, but they are being compelled into a civil war situ­ation by what the government is doing," said the Rev. Ian Paisley, the hard-line Protestant leader of the Democratic Unionist Party. 

-----______________________________________________j 
page 10 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, August 31, 1994 
New Serb campaign to drive out Muslims 
By MARK PORUBCANSKY 
Associated Press 
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Serbs are showing a new deter­mination to root out all remain­ing Muslims from Serb-held areas of northern Bosnia, tak­ing over their homes and demanding they pay for bus rides to safety. 
Since mid-July, more than 2,000 people have been forced from the Banja Luka region of northern Bosnia and Bijeljina in the northeast. 
While the numbers are small compared to the mass expul­sions at the start of the war in 1992, they represent a signifi­cant portion of the Muslims still living in those areas. 
The expulsions have in­creased dramatically in recent weeks, and they appear to be more organized. 
"These acts of ethnic cleans­ing are being condoned at the highest level," Peter Kessler, the Sarajevo-based spokesman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, said Tuesday. 
"Should it continue, the 3,000 Muslims who remain in Bijeljina will be cleansed within one month. This is ethnic cleansing at its worst, and the Serbs should be held account­able." 
The International Committee of the Red Cross demanded on Tuesday that Bosnian Serbs stop the expulsions and "guar­antee the security and dignity of minorities on their territo­ry." 
Refugees said local Serb com­mander Vojislav Djurkovic directly takes part in some ex­pulsions, which usually occur at night, and personally collects money from those he expels. 
Senija Kahrimanovic, a 40­year-old sales assistant, said Djurkovic and two militia men came to her home on August 22. 
"They shouted, banged the door, and cursed," she said in an interview Tuesday. "They were shouting at us to pack our things, but they didn't allow us to take anything." 
"One guy kicked my 67 -year­old mother in the back, and slapped my brother," she added. 
Kahrimanovic was wearing the same navy blue dress she wore when the men arrived. She has nothing else. Her mother and two ill brothers also left with little more than the clothes on their backs. 
Kahrimanovic repeated the story told by most of the refugees. 
She was given only minutes to leave her house, then trans­ported to a collection center, where refugees entered a room one-by-one and Djurkovic demanded money and jewelry. She was forced to turn over 4,500 German marks ($2,000) and her jewelry. 
"He said give me more or I'll put you in a camp," Kah­rimanovic recalled. "Then, they took the key to the house." 




War hits research station 
By TONY SMITH 
Associated Press 
RWANDA 
Shards of glass and torn files litter the forest floor, evidence that Rwanda's deadly civil war has reached high into the Virunga Forest, home to half the world's rare mountain gorillas. 
In the forest that straddles Rwanda's border with Zaire and Uganda, the research camp featured in the movie "Gorillas in the Mist" stands ransacked and nearly deserted. 
But what has happened to the shy primates themselves? 
Only about 600 mountain gorillas remain on Earth. Some 320 lived in Virunga Forest before the civil war erupted anew in April. 
A group of Rwandan trackers returned in early August and have traced the base's three gorilla groups used for · research. But about 60 gorillas usually shown to tourists are still missing. 
"There's no reason for major worry right now," said Jose Kalpers of the International Gorilla Conservation Program, which helps run Karisoke. 
"As long as there's no dis­turbance in the forest, the go­rillas have no reason to move -it's not as if they're listening to the radio. 
"But there's no surveillance at all and the potential risks are quite high," he added. 
In mid-July, Karisoke's 30 employees and another 80 Virunga Forest rangers fled advancing Rwandan Patriotic Front rebels and are now refugees in Zaire. 
The victorious rebels now form Rwanda's government 
and are encamped just south of the forest. Over the border, Rwanda's defeated Hutu army feverishly plots revenge. 
The forest is a tense no man's land, parts of which are said to be mined. Without rangers, it is open to antelope and buffalo poachers, who can kill or ensnare gorillas on purpose or by mistake. 
Up to 3,000 Rwandan vil­lagers and their livestock fled through the forest in July, but Kalpers said gorillas probably took refuge up the slopes only to return later to their home ranges. 
Leonidas Munyatarama was equally confident as he stepped through the debris at the camp founded by Dian Fossey, the American naturalist. 
"Even if they fled over the border, they'll be back. Gorillas don't need passports," he said. 
LAST CHANCE! 

FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1995-96 
Attention Current Seniors!!! ! ! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7-7:00p.m. 131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 




Wednesday, August 31, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 11 


Russians ambivalent, bitter as troops return 
By DAVE CARPENTER Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Russian troops return from Germany and the Baltics in nei­ther victory nor defeat this week, and their countrymen seem torn whether to celebrate or bemoan the nation's mud­dled post-Cold War fate. 
Intensely patriotic, many Russians still resent that the Soviet collapse transformed their motherland from world power to struggling outsider. 
"It's good we are leaving, it's high time," the semi-official daily Rossiiskaya Gazeta said in a front-page story Tuesday about the German withdrawal. "But there is a trace of bitter­ness in the elated mood of today's celebrations." 
The Russian army ends its half-century presence in Germany with ceremonies on Wednesday, the same day it formally shuts down a 54-year 
Don't Miss the Weekend Fun. 
military  operation  in  the  
Baltics.  
Some  Russians  said  the  

troops are leaving without" the fanfare they deserve, but that their soldiers are coming home with dignity. 
The defeat of Nazi Germany at the cost 20 million Soviet lives was perhaps the Soviet Union's finest hour on the world stage. But victory turned into occupation and the Cold War, so starkly symbolized by the Soviet-built Berlin Wall, divided the world anew. 
For Lev Pushkaryov, who fought in World War II, Russia's current chaos recalls what troops came home to 49 years ago. 
"It was even more difficult for us to come back to our devas­tated country then, but we overcame all the hardships," said Pushkaryov, a historian. 
"We can only welcome the fact that our troops are leaving Germany. Maybe we should have done that earlier." 
The Belarus train station in Moscow where soldiers will arrive from Germany on Sat­urday has been repainted, and a parade route leading into the city center scoured. 
Against the backdrop of those festivities, however, extensive media coverage reflects wide­spread ambivalence about the dual pullouts and the reopening of a painful debate about Russia's role in the world. 
Several newspapers ex­pressed bitterness that the Russians were excluded from a joint farewell parade in Berlin on June 18 for French, British and American troops, who also are leaving as part of the agreement that brought German reunification in 1990. Russians will have to settle for a less grandiose ceremony that the newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda called a "second-rate sendoff." 
"The feeling that they (the 




Friday 
12:00 p.m. 

Football Legends Luncheon 
Chicago Hilton &TOWIJPS 720 8. Michigan 

7:00p.m. 

Pep Rally 

Chicago Hilton &TOWIJPS 
Notre Dame Club of Chicago, 25 E. Washington, Suite 1125, Chicago, IL 606021 Fax (312)782-7118 Proceeds of NO Club events benefit the Notre Dame Chicago Scholarship Foundation 


Saturday 
2:00 p.m. -Game 
Tailgate/block party 
Chicago Hi/toll &TowePS 

7:00 p.OI. 
Notre Dame vs. Northwestern 
SoldieP Field 


After-game Party 
Duffy's 
420 w. DivePsey Unlimitedbevepages with 810 admission tee 
Germans) aren't seeing us off but are hurrying to drive us away, doesn't create an atmo­sphere of celebration," the daily said in a long commen­tary. 
Compared to the other allies' withdrawals, the Russian departure resembles an "escape" more than an or­ganized farewell, Rossiiskaya Gazeta said. 
Only about 3,100 Russian sol­diers and their families remain of the more than half-million in Germany prior to the fall of the Wall in 1989. The last should be gone by Sept. 9. 
Hard-liners and ultrana­tionalist politicians such as Vladimir Zhirinovsky want to re-establish the Soviet empire and have accused the West of trying to disarm and weaken Russia. 
Gen. Valentin Varennikov, one of the organizers of the 1991 coup attempt who was acquitted this month, urged 

Four Caribbean nations agree to military effort 
By LOUIS MEIXLER Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
The U.N. mission to prepare the peaceful departure of Haiti's army rulers has failed, leaving the door open for a pos­sible U.S.-led invasion, Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said Tuesday. 
Haitian military leaders re­fused to meet with U.N. envoy Rolf Knutsson, saying he could only hold talks with members of the military-installed civilian government, which no country has recognized. 
Knutsson returned Monday from the Dominican Republic, ending his efforts to prepare for formal talks on the departure of Haiti's army leaders. 
"We have not been successful because the military people in Haiti refused to talk with my special representative," Boutros-Ghali told reporters after he briefed the Security Council on Knutsson's efforts. 
He said the mission could con­tinue only if "I receive a man­date from the Security Council or if there is a drastic change in Haiti." 
The United Nations passed a resolution on July 31 calling on Haiti's military leaders to peacefully step down. The reso­lution also authorized a possi­ble U.S.-led invasion to restore elected President Jean­Bertrand Aristide to office. 

FINE QUALITY SPORTSWEAR GOLF EQUIPMENT TEE TIMES 631-6425 
Russia's soldiers to "hoist your combat banner, feel pride and dignity" as they leave Germany, Latvia and Estonia as "libera­tors, not as aggressors or loot­ers." 
"Our last platoons are now leaving Germany and other countries accompanied by grandiloquent speeches by politicians and the vindictive hissing of our enemies," Varennikov wrote in a letter published Tuesday by the daily Sovietskaya Rossiya. 
"Despite the slander and lies of Western politicians and some of our compatriots, every sol­dier must remember that the historical truth is on our side," Varennikov said. 
News of the German with­drawal took precedence over the Baltic pullout this week, but many Russians consider the Baltics more important. The government has accused the Baltic nations· of discriminating against their ethnic Russian residents. 
Aristide was ousted in a mili­tary coup nearly three years ago. 
"We tried to have a peaceful implementation of Resolution 940 but we have not been suc­cessful," Boutros-Ghali said. "The Security Council will have to decide what it wants to do or the group of states that have sought the mandate {for the invasion) ... will have to take their own decision." 
British Ambassador Sir David Hannay said it was "deplorable and sad that they have rejected yet another opportunity to do this peacefully." 
In Kingston, Jamaica, four Caribbean nations agreed to provide peacekeepers to follow a possible invasion of Haiti, 
U.S. officials said Tuesday. 
Foreign ministers of Jamaica, Trinidad, Barbados and Belize told U.S. officials they would contribute to a force of 266 peacekeepers. 
The Security Council on Tuesday also condemned the slaying of a pro-democracy priest who championed the rights of the poor. The Rev. Jean-Marie Vincent was gunned down Sunday night out­side his home in Port-au­Prince, Haiti. 
"This odious crime will only strengthen the resolve of the international community to put an end to murder, terror and impunity in Haiti," Boutros­Ghali said. 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, August 31, 1994 

ND reflects ethnic insensitivity with Irish image 
GARRY TRUDEAU  
5UPERVI'3/NG fR&E3 'N' a&CTION? IN KI6AU  MIKE/ 7HIS 15 YaJI<. PR£'3/f?&NTI IN&WYOUTO H&tP M& IA/ITH C:ONG!?i335-'  HAV&7VGO, OWFI?IENP! R£M~M!3tl<­ON& P&I?SON, ON&  GOT!T,§IR.! 7HANK?FOR ROUIN6 BAa< aNTU/?1&? OPHATRUJl  

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''some of us are becoming the men we wanted to marry." 
-Gloria Steinem 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .............•.... Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor .............•................. Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan ControUer ..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion· of either institution. The news is reponc:d as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsignc:d c:di­rorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space: is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letrers is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor /Viewpoint Sports • News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production Genera! Information 
• Opinion 
Dear Editor: 
At a time period in our histo­ry when we are becoming more conscious of ethnicity, the University of Notre Dame is guilty of blatant ethnic insensi­tivity. The trademark of the University is based on a combi­nation of two racist images of the Irish people. One is the non­human ape-like depiction of the Irish by 19th century English racists and imperialists. The other is the later "Stage Irishman" image: a happy, senseless fool. Both of these disparaging images have their origins in the racist attitudes and stereotypes of the English toward the Irish. These same attitudes and stereotypes were brought to the United States and applied to the American Irish by anti-Catholics and American Anglophiles. 
The leprechaun does not have a long tradition at Notre Dame. It is, in reality, an outgrowth of insensitive commercialism. When I was a student at Notre Dame in the 1950's, our mascot was a real fighting Irishman, the Irish Terrier. He was not a demented looking refugee from the pages of "Punch" or from the pen of the anti-Irish racist, Thomas Nast. The block ND or shamrock were our major sym­bols, not a racist caricature. 
For many years I have talked to others who, like myself, have been offended by the image projected by the Notre Dame leprechaun. It may be accept­able or tolerated by the once a year St. Patrick's Day Irish, who have little knowledge of their real heritage. However, it is repulsive to those of us who take our ethnic heritage seri­ously. In fact anyone with even 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy .helios.nd.edu 
CUBAN BLOCKADE 1I 


a little knowledge of Irish histo­ry and culture should be offended by such a trivializa­tion. Some may say it involves only a little harmless fun, but remember many of us are just one generation removed from the "No Irish Need Apply" atti­tudes of the WASP establish­ment. Even those of us who are more distantly removed from the days when immigrant Irish men and women were subject to vicious racism and even physical assault should feel insulted. Further, it is an insult to all those Irish who made the growth of Catholicism and Notre Dame possible. 
Anti-Irish racism based on stereotypes still flourishes in Britain today. In occupied Northeast Ireland, British sol­diers make racist remarks and display racist attitudes toward the Irish people as they wreck their homes with axes, crow­bars and jack hammers during their routine house searches. Daily on the streets of Northeast Ireland these same soldiers spew out racist invec­tive and endless vulgarities at little children, grandparents and mothers attempting to go about their everyday business. The news media feels free to make anti-Irish racist interpre­tations about the nature of the struggle in Northeast Ireland as they thoroughly misinform the American people. The British image of the Irish and their struggle has anesthetized most Irish Americans to the real cause of the violence in Ireland: systematic persecution of the Irish by British colonialism. 
A number of years ago when I protested the mascot, Father Malloy dismissed my objections by saying most people are not offended. He further added it was not clear to him whether the average person is aware of the historical roots of anti-Irish feeling (Why not racism?). Obviously Father Malloy was not so informed or as president of Notre Dame he is more sensi­tive to commercial interests rather than fairness to an eth­nic group. Because most people are not offended does not make it right. Most people in the South supported segregation but that did not make it morally right. Even if he is correct about the average person's ignorance, why should Notre Dame contribute to extending such ignorance? Notre Dame, a premier educational institution, could educate the public greatly by abandoning such a repug­nant image and informing the public of its reasons for doing so. Such a decision might even aid Native American groups who wish to stop the degrada­tion of their culture through the use of culturally irrelevant and offensive mascots by many other sports teams. 
Niall O'Dowd, the publisher of Irish America magazine, in dis­cussing the leprechaun image of the Irish asked how Italian Americans would like to be rep­resented by a dwarf wearing gangster pin stripes and a fedo­ra hat, armed with a sub machine gun, or a Jewish American by a yarmulke capped dwarf counting money. He admitted he may ha.ve exag­gerated the stereotypes, but he wished to highlight how damag­ing such labels can be. 
The Alumni Newsletter a few years ago referred to the lep­rechaun in the context of the maudlin cliche expression "the luck of the Irish." However as John Lennon once wrote, "If you had the luck of the Irish you'd wish you were English instead." What is the luck of the Irish? Foreign invasion and occupation, famine and disease, forced emigration, and death and destruction at the hands of invaders who thought you were a inferior race. 
It is highly inappropriate for Notre Dame, an institution with a first class reputation for hon­esty and quality in athletics, to promote and advance an ethnic stereotype in association with its highly visible program. Further, given the historically strong Irish American connec­tions of Notre Dame faculty, student body and subway-alum­ni, the leprechaun is an inex­cusable affront to their dignity. I would suggest that the University consider the ramifi­cations of the continued promo­tion of such an image. 
SEAMUS METRESS, PHD Notre Dame '55 
-
ACCENT 

Wednesday, August 31, 1994 page 13 
Staying healthy when school starts 
ByJOANNEPAVIN old habits 
and [tP' 1\p

Accent Writer beginning the new. ...........,., 0 Oiscipline involves """'\ 
Have you recently discovered being both mentally that the Wednesday night and emotionally penny beers, Thursday night ready_ for change_. It ..M tat. three dollar pitchers. and the reqmres settmg ~ ,. Friday through Sunday keg rules and regula­marathons have moved out of tions and the being the bars and into your abs? obedient to the rules Does Mr. Soloflex come on your which are set. This television screen and taunt you is difficult because rather than motivate you be-most people de­cause he is a reminder of the mand quick visible body you once had? Have you results, but lasting minimized your weekly exercise healthy results usn­regimen to alternating 12 OZ ally take time. In sets of Bud, Miller, and order to establish Heineken. Have you gotten to self discipline you know the Domino's delivery must have patience, man so well you've considered a positive attitude, asking him to your next SYR? If and belief in your­you've answered yes to any of self. the preceding questions you are Once you have a not alone. sense of self disci-
College is not the easiest pline it is easy to place to lead a healthy lifestyle. begin diet modifica­We all know it takes a lot of will tion. Diet is an power to say no to dining hall important campo­desserts, late night B.K., and nent in a healthy weekend inebriation. However, lifestyle. Proper eat­the human body is like a price-ing combined with less machine that requires the moderate exercise most intricate maintenance. can bring desirable Feeding it the wrong fuels could changes to physical cause it to break down or possi-appearance, mental bly die out. It is important to being, and over all take care of your body because wellness. unlike most machines when it The first modifica­breaks down you can't run out tion in diet should to buy another. Neglecting your be to eliminate junk 
-
body now may not have an food. Junk food con­immediate effect, but a few tains high amounts years down the line the wear of sugar. salt, and and tear begins to show. fat. Salt, responsible 
Longevity is something to for water retention, strive for today. Research sugar, responsible shows that people are living for rapid swings in longer and that diet and exer-appetite, moods, cise are big factors in contribut-and energy levels 
ease, and various forms of can­composition. Without protein, tant in flushing wastes out ofing to longer lives. However, it and fat, which contributes to cer but fat also tends to slow muscles tend to atrophy, or the system.

is important to start a regimen heart disease and high chol~s­metabolism. It would be best to decrease . These dietary modifications now. With the proper discipline, terol are bad components, high fill that 50% with foods that are It is also important to con-are just the beginning. The pre­diet, and determination you can in calories, and certainly not carbohydrates, suchas grain sume a sufficient amount of wa-ceding guidelines are just a waybreak that 2-4 year streak of beneficial to the body. 
products, pasta, potatoes, rice, ter everyday. When the body is to start eating healthier. Losingbad eating, drinking, and smok-Once you have eliminated 

fruits and vegetables. deprived of fluids it becomes weight and cutting back on

ing habits. Although, it is diffi-junk food, focus on a diet con­Carbohydrates are also metabo­dehydrated. Dehydration re-caloric intake are a whole othercult to start ahealth regimen sisting of 65 % carbohydrates, lized by the body more easily duces energy levels and inhibits issue.
when you don't know how to 25 % portion, and 10% fat. 
than fats because it takes less fat metabolism. Most of the The most important factor inbegin. All it takes is establish-According to the A~~rican energy to break them down on time, the brain misinterprets making a healthy change is de­ment of self discipline, diet College of Sports Med1cme an a molecular level. It is also vital thirst for hunger and causes termination. Determinationmodification, and determina-average American diet has to consume proteins such as you to eat when you really means having a firm belief thattion. been shown to have as many as chicken, fish, lean meat, and should be drinking. Eight to ten change is possible. Through de­Discipline is the most difficult 50% of its calories from fat. Not egg whites because protein is glasses of water a day is benefi-• termination comes accom­factor to obtain in breaking the only is this associated with the major component in muscle cial to the body and is impor-plishments and pride.

health risks of stroke, heart dis-Accomplishment comes through achieving goals, although it is difficult to remain determined when large unreachable goals are set. Small attainable goals are usually short term and bring the most success and in time small goals add up to the big goal. Small goals are also 
-
achieved at a faster rate and bring continual positive rein­forcement. This keeps the level of motivation high and helpses­tablish a positive attitude. Therefore it is hard to get dis­couraged when small reachable goals are set. 

If you accept yourself, believe it is time for change, and are ­ready to start leading a health­ier lifestyle, don't let anything get in your way. Today only comes once, so make the best of it and live it healthy so you can see endless tommorows. Get off the couch and into the gym and start making a difference. ­Unleash the fitness that is locked up inside you. And next time Mr. Soloflex appears on your television screen and says "You don't have to be 19 to have a body like this.... ". say, "Yea guy, that's right, you can be 21 like me" or any age for that matter. 

Wednesay, August 31, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 
-
•Nft 
Friesz beats out Shuler 
for Redskins' QB job 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. 
Washington Redskins head coach Norv Turner ended weeks of speculation Tuesday and named John Friesz as the starting quarterback for Sunday's regular-season opener against the Seattle Seahawks. 
Friesz, a four-year veteran who signed as a free agent during the offseason, got the nod over No. 3 overall draft pick Heath Shuler. 
For the past few weeks, Turner has emphasized he wanted to choose whichever quarterback he felt gave the Redskins the best chance to defeat Seattle. And it turns out, experience was the deciding factor. 
"It's not that I think that Heath can't handle it. He'd handle it fine," Turner said. "I think in terms of this football team ... I just feel more com­fortable with John in that role, early in the game." 
Shuler seemed neither surprised nor disap­pointed by the decision. 
"It's pretty much what I expected when I came to camp," he said. "I knew what was expected of me in training camp, and I tried to work with that as best as I can." 
Shuler also dismissed speculation that his reporting two weeks late to training camp signifi­cantly hurt his chances to be the opening-day starter. 
"I don't think it's that big a deal," he said. "Starting would have been nice, but I plan to have a long career, so this might work out better for me in the long run." 
·-Classifieds 

Martin fights back for opening round win 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Todd Martin punched the air with a right uppercut to punctuate his five-set victory Tuesday at the U.S. Open. He was lucky he didn't hit himself. 
Martin did everything to knock himself out in the first round. He lost the first two sets and sprayed three unforced errors to set up match points in the fifth set against the bespectacled and decidedly unspectacular Guillaume Raoux. 
Raoux, a squat, bookish Frenchman who turned the hard court match into a clay court base­line duel, took all the gifts Martin offered yet still couldn't quite win. No matter how many chances Raoux had, there was a sense in watching the match that he would find a way to lose and that Martin would find a way to win. 
That crystallized in the fifth set when Martin served, trailing 4-5, and he faced three match points after errors. On the first, he drilled a perfect backhand pass crosscourt to save the match; on the second, Raoux dumped a forehand into the net after a deep forehand by Martin; and on the third, Raoux slapped a forehand wide. 
Both players looked exhausted as they wiped the sweat from their faces, but they persevered and pushed the match to the tiebreaker. Now they were in Martin's element, the time he seems to wait for to assert himself. Sure enough, he played his best tennis of the day and Raoux his worst. And when Martin slugged a forehand return to close out the match, 6-7 (7-4), 4-6, 6-3, 6­4, 7-6 (7-1), he celebrated with a punch he should have thrown much earlier. 
The crowd wanted Martin, an American, to win, but it also wanted an upset. Martin didn't think the crowd knew what it wanted or what it saw. 
"It's quite a good feeling to play in front of people who yell every point and tell you you're terrible when you aren't, and tell you you're good when you aren't," said Martin, who was slightly bothered by a strained groin. "And it was an awful lot of fun after the first two sets to be out there. It was just nice to be out there and finish the job that I start­ed." 
This was supposed to be an easy win for the No. 9 Martin, the start of a peaceful stroll at least as far as the semifinals. The only two players ranked higher in his quarter of the draw were already gone, No. 2 Goran Ivanisevic and No. 7 Boris Becker, victims of Monday's mas­sacre. 

But Martin doesn't seem to do anything easily. He lost his first two sets last year at the Open to one Jordi Burillo. Martin played a record four five-setters at Wimbledon be­fore falling in the semifinals to champion Pete Sampras. 
If Martin doesn't get upset along the way, he's seeded to meet Michael Chang in the semifinals next week. 
"I didn't think, 'Oh, gee, here I am, another upset in the U.S. Open,"' Martin said. "I don't care if Becker and Ivanisevic lost. Actually, I was pretty happy for Richey (Reneberg) last night. You've just got to fight, and it doesn't matter who you are or what your creden­tials are." 
Taking an easier route into the second round Tuesday were No. 5 Stefan Edberg, a 7-5, 6-1, 6-1 win­ner against Lars Jonsson; and No. 4 Michael Stich, who beat Olivier Delaitre 7-6 (7-3), 6-3, 6-3. No. 15 Marc Rosset, seeded to play Martin in the quarters, struggled to beat Mark Woodforde 4-6, 1-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7-5), 6-3. 
Richard Krajicek, unseeded, had one of the more curious victories as he blew a 6-0 lead in a fourth-set tiebreaker, lost the set, but still beat Jan Siemerink, 7-6 (7 -2). 6-4, 6-7 (7-2), 6-7 (10-8), 6-4. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

ILOST & FOUND I EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING '91 BLUE CAVALIER. MUST SELL BREAK TRIPS I SELL 6 TRIPS & . GOOD PRICE. A BONUS OF F­GO FREEl BEST TRIPS & BALL APPL. CALL 634-2669.  I NEED ND SEASON & ALL GAMES GA. WILL PAY TOP$$$$. WILL ALSO TRADE MY 6 OR 4  WILL PAY CASH FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES AND FSU. MIKE 269-3203.  VETERANS: NEED MONEY FOR SCHOOL? JOIN THE INDIANA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD. GOOD  
PRICES! BAHAMAS. CANCUN,  FOR YOUR 2 MICH. OR BC GA'S.  LEADERSHIP POSITIONS AVAIL·  
PLEASE HELP ME!I!I LOST: ONE JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT '66 YUGO, $1,000. ONLY 26,000  BE SURE TO CALL. 268·1166.  NEED TWO MICHIGAN GA'S.  ABLE NOW. CALL MAJOR TIM  
GOLD BRACELET AROUND ST. RESUME EXPERIENCE! 1·600· MI., RUNS GREAT. JON 1-1220. MARY'S LAKE ON FRI. AUG 26. 676-63661  ST. JUDE, WANT 2·4 SEASON OR  X2254.  WARRICK (219) 234-9256.  
HUGE SENTIMENTAL VALUE! IF  INDIVIDUAL GA TIX.  I NEED MICHIGAN GA'S  cello  
FOUND, PLEASE CALL ANYONE NEEDING TO LIVE OFF· STUDENT TICKET BOOK $150 SHANNON AT X4026 CAMPUS FOR THE 1ST SEMES­OBO. LV MESS. 234·7667.  312·404·4903 DAN.  CALL RYAN: 271-5665  FRESHMEN-SOPHOMORES:  
TER AND IS BRAVE ENOUGH TO  I NEED GA'S FOR MICHIGAN,  LEARN LEADERSHIP AND EARN  
LIVE AT LAFAYETTE CALL 233· FOR SALE: Mac Classic. Includes WANTED· 5130. Microsoft Word, Excel, etc. Call  PURDUE, STANFORD, BYU & FSU. MIKE 269-3203.  $$$$ LOOKING FOR SOME FALL  MONEY FOR SCHOOL. INDIANA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD. CALL  
Mike 273·6077.  BREAK CASH?  MAJOR TIM WARRICK (219)  
LOOKING FOR 4TH FEMALE HELP WANTED:  ALUMNUS NEEDS 1 TICKET TO  NEED 2 TIX FOR NO-MICH.  234-9256.  
ROOMMATE TO SHARE 4 BED­ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER MACINTOSH CLASSIC COMPUT· ROOM HOUSE, 725 ANGELA 50 ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS ER, 4MbRAM, INTERNAL HARD YDS FROM CAMPUS. NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND DRIVE. GREAT CONDITION, $250/MO/WASHER DRYER & ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY $700. CALL UTILITIES. 232-2595. NEWS SERVICES, 269-7017. 232-3205 OR 268-9361. LOOKING FOR MUSICIANS TO  MICHIGAN GAME ON 9/1 0 OR WILL EXCHANGE 2 TICKETS + CASH FOR 3 TICKETS TOGETH­ER. CALL TOM HILDNER AT (201) 623-10000R (201) 467-9624.  GAME. CALL AIMEE AT 277·0715. $$$$ $$Need MICH. TIX$$ CALL MIKE 269 6966 WANTED:  WANTED: EXERCISERS WHO ARE LOOK· lNG FOR A FUN, ENERGETIC AEROBICS PROGRAM. JOIN US AT JAZZERCISE,  
FORM ROCK/BLUES BAND. CALL WANTED: RESPONSIBLE, KID· LOFT, WHITE TUBULAR STEEL. PETE 233-5130. LOVING STUDENT WITH CAR TO EASILY ASSEMBLED, JUST BABYSIT 2 CHILDREN AGES 4 &6 SLOTS TOGETHER. $100. 277·  WANTED: OCT. 15 BYU TICKETS. 4 TOGETHER. CALL 800·922·2327 JANET.  4 GA'S FOR STANFORD 10/1 CALL JASON x1 033  GEORGETOWN SHOPPING CEN· TER. 277-0111.  
MORE FUN THAN A JOB OUGHT IN MY HOME. 2·3 DAYS PER 1473.  LESS THAN 10 MINS. FROM  
TO BEl WEEK FROM 2·6. PLEASE CALL JOIN THE TEAM OF THE 277-5766. TICKETS BUSIEST RESTAURANT IN IMICHIANA! FULL-TIME AND FOR RENT PART-TIME, AM/PM SPOTS NEED 2 GA'S FOR ALL GAMES. IOPEN FOR: CALL BOB 219·232·5297.  NO VS FSU NOV. 12, CITRUS BOWL FAN NEEDS TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 407 ·246-1679. MAY CALL COLLECT.  WANTED 2 MICHIGAN GA FOOT· BALL TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 634-3106. BEAUTIFUL NURSE NEEDS 1 G.A. FOR THE MICHIGAN GAME.  CAMPUS. STUDENT DISCOUNTS AVAIL· ABLE. PRAY TO ST. JUDE, PATRON OF IMPOSSIBLE CAUSES.  
• LINE COOKS ROOM TO RENT USE OF HOME  NO ALUMNUS HAS MICHIGAN,  PLEASE CALL 287-7444.  
- •SERVERS & UTILITIES PAID. WHIRLPOOL, •PREP COOKS FIREPLACE. WALK TO NO. I NEED TIX FOR MICHIGAN AND • BARTENDERS FEMALE STUDENT OR RELI­TALLAHASSEE. I AM VERY DES· • DISHWASHERS GIOUS PERSON PREFERRED. PERATE. CALL CHRISTIAN AT CALL 631-5065. 267-6743. WILL PAY BIG$.  STANFORD AND AIR FORCE GA'S AND IS LOOKING TO TRADE FOR BYU. CALL (717) 697·2219 ASK FOR TOM OR LEAVE MESSAGE.  1 GA for all home games for sale. Call Ed at (706) 366-1329. I WILL BUY YOUR STD. TIX.  GO ACROSS CAMPUS UNDER A GROOVY TIE-DYED WOOD· STUCK UMBRELLA. $13.00 + S&H. CALL 1-60Q-259·1250 TO  

TOP PAY AND GREAT BENEFITS  BOOKLET. CALL 233·5130.  ORDER.  
INCLUDING FLEXIBLE HOURS. IF  ENGLISHWOMAN OFFERS  NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE &  ALUMNI DESPERATELY NEEDS  
YOU'RE A WINNER ...WHAT ARE  QUIET ACCOMMODATION NEAR  STANFORD! X2174.  TIX FORUM GAME. WILL PAY  NATIONAL WHOLESALE ELEC­ 
YOU WAITING FOR. APPLY IN  CAMPUS FOR ND/SMC VISI·  $$$AND/OR TRADE AF OR NAVY  NEED STUDENT  TRONICS COMPANY SEEKS  
PERSON. EVERYONE LOOKS  TORS. PHONE  NEED 1 MICH TICKET  TIX. CALL DAN (319) 323-7152  TIX BOOKLET!  CAMPUS SALES REPRESENT A·  
FORWARD TO  (219)631-6072 DAYTIME,  STUD. ORGA  AFTER 5.  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!  TIVE. GAIN VALUABLE EXPERI·  
FRIDAY'S  (219)273·1751 EVENINGS.  PLEASE CALL DARRYL @ X4243  call MATT @ x3366  ENCE PLUS SUBSTANTIAL  
4730 N. GRAPE ROAD  NEED MICHIGAN STD. OR GA'S.  EARNING POTENTIAL.  
- MISHAWAKA EEO  NOTRE DAME HOME GAMES RENT LARGE COUNTRY HOME  $$$1 NEED MICHIGAN TIX. GA OR STUD. CALL KAREN X4290.  CALL 233-5130.  I NEED ONE MICHIGAN TICKET  CALL 1·600-345-C.A.V.E.  
IN GRANGER. WILL SLEEP 6  PLEASE CALL MELISSA AT  Girly knows what you're doing,  
ARE YOU READY FOR A HEAV·  PERSONS, 6·10 MILES TO STADI·  MY FAMILY WILL PAY$ FOR ANY  I WILL BUY ANY HOME GAMES.  272·0108.  Greg  
ENL Y EXPERIENCE?  UM AND MINS. TO TOLL  MICHIGAN TIXI  233-5130.  
BECOME PART OF AN INTER· ESTING, CHALLENGING RETAIL  RD. FRI. TO SUN. $500 CASH PLUS  NIKOLE 273-0045.  SEEKING TWO G.A.'S TO MICHl·  PERSONAL  We thank you St. Therese for your miraculous prayerful intercession in  
OPERATION. PREVIOUS FOOD  $100 DEPOSIT. ALUMNI PLEASE  GAN, PURDUE AND STANFORD  our job crisis last year, and for the  
SERVICE EXPERIENCE HELP·  PH. 273·9240.  I NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS. GA  GAMES  roses too.  Thank you also St. Jude  
- FUL. IMMEDIATE OPENING. HOURS 1 :30·6:30 MONDAY THRU  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY.  AND STUDENT. CALL LISA X2325.  CALL DOREEN @ X4231  RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR FOR ONLY $99 FOR TWO  for powerful prayers for us then when we were helpless and in  
FRIDAY AND EVERY OTHER  PRIVATE HOMES· ND/SMC  I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.  SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV·  despair.  
SATURDAY 6:30·2:00.  EVENTS.  ROLLING STONES • 9/9 at E.  272-6551  ERYCALL:  
APPLY IN PERSON AT HEAVEN·  219·291-7153.  Lansing (MSU), floor, 237-2111,  COLLEGIATE RENTALS,  Kathy, Cornelius, Marcus, Angela,  
L Y HAM, 2307 EDISON BETWEEN  leave message.  NEED MICHIGAN & BYU TICK­ 272-5959.  Jethro, and Teresa Thomas  
8:30-10:00 OR  ROOMMATE NEEDED·2BDRM  ETS. PLEASE CONTACT ERIN AT  
2:00-5:00.  APT., 10MIN FROM CAMPUS,  A LOCAL BUSINESSMAN NEEDS  634-4015.  THE OFFICIAL CHICAGO BAR  HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MR. FITZI  
4  BABYSITTER NEEDED AT LEAST  NONSMOKER,$200/MONTH, CALL 631-6605.  2 PAIRS OF GA SEASON TICK· ETS. 272-7233.  Will trade 16 Stone's Tix (Sept. 12,  GUIDE. 150 pgs. of accurale info., individual  DID YOU MAKE IT TO CLASS TODAY??!!  
2 MORNINGS A WEEK, SEPT.  Soldiers Field) for 4 Michigan GAs.  listings & catagorical indices by  
OCT. ONLY. WILL WORK AROUND CLASS SCHEDULE. 2  FOR SALE  'BIG BARGAIN • HURRY' WILL TRADE MY 6 AF GA OR 4  232-3531  domers ('63). Send $12 check or money order  All I wanna do is have some FUN  
CHILDREN AGES 3 & 1. MUST  AF. PLUS 2 NAVY OR USC FOR  Need Law Student season ticket  (incs. S&H) to  Greg, girly is watching you.  
HAVE TRANSPORTATION.  FOR SALE: TWIN BED & CHAIR.  YOUR 2 MICH. OR BC GA'S.  application$! 232-3531  BOOKS INK, P.O. 734, Noire  
272·2964.  CALL4·3121.  '266-1166'  Dame, IN 46556.  I am the man  

page 15 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, August 31, 1994 
• CoLLEGE FmrnlAU 
Plenty of questions remain for shaken West Virginia 
By MATT HARVEY 
Associated Press 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. 
After West Virginia rushed for just eight yards against Nebraska, skeptics might start wondering about the Mountaineers' perennially strong running game. 
But reports of its demise are premature, coach Don Nehlen said Tuesday during his weekly news conference. 
"If you look at the film, we didn't run that badly," Nehlen said. "But we had penalties, or we'd call a pass and lose seven yards. That's what killed us. Every time we tried to throw the football, it turned out to be negative yardage. We had 70 or 80 yards in negative yardage." 

The Mountaineers (0-1 over­all, 0-0 Big East) had 72 yards in losses, including 64 negative yards on eight sacks of sopho­more quarterbacks Chad Johnston and Eric Boykin. 
Because neither Johnston nor Boykin had much time to throw, Nehlen said, neither was able to get a firm grasp on the starting job. Consequently, they are likely to share duties again Saturday in the home opener against Ball State. 
"I didn't think either of them did anything bad, and I didn't think either of them did any­thing that got me all excited, either," Nehlen said. 
A key for those two young players and other first-year starters such as center Jay Brooks will be how much they can learn from their mistakes in the 31-0 loss. 
"The positive is we've got a game to look at and get better," Nehlen said. "We can say, 'Hey Chad, we need you to do this or that.' 'Eric, we need you to do this or that.' 'Hey, Jay Brooks, you've never played center. You've got to do this and you've got to do that.' 
"This has to be a learning sit­uation," Nehlen said. "Hopefully, we'll get better." 
On the positive side, the Mountaineers have a game more experience than Ball State, which also will start a rookie quarterback. 
But that can be a negative, too, Nehlen said. 
"I don't know a lot about them, because they haven't played yet," Nehlen said. "Unfortunately, they'll know something about us. They've got a new quarterback and we have no idea what kind of quar­terback he is." 
WELCOME WEEK 94 
brought to you by Student Activites and the Student Union Board 
Wednesday, August 31 
4pm to lOpm 
OPEN HousE-
LAFoRTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
Stop on in and see what we have to offer ­Visit offices and businesses, play Virtual Reality, hear live music, have your fortunes told, lots of other novelty events, free food, and tons of door prizes including American Airline tickets, CD players, concert tickets, 


ND sweatshirt, pi~ and much, much more! ! ! Thursday, September 1 
~ 
6pm to 11 pm ROCKFEST III -
FiELDHOUSE MALL The following bands are scheduled to appear. George and the Freaks; Roap Apples; Sunshine Wine; True North; VRS 
F~WSoda!!J 
e!T~E 
Free Movies aU night long in the LaFortune Ballroom 
8:00pm Singles 
9:45 pm Dazed and Confused 
11:25 pm Reality Bites ~ 
Free Popcorn and Soda! I I 
Saturday, September 2 
) 
7:30 pm to 1 am 
FooTBALL, GAMES, & MoviES 
7:30pm Watch the ND v. Northwestern game on the big screen in The Huddle or the Gorch Games room. 
8 pm, 10 pm, The hit movie Four Weddings and a Funeral. & 12 am FREE in the Montgomery Theatre. 
9 pm -1 am Free billiards in the Gorch Games Room. 

Get a no-annual-fee VISA' Classic Card and alow-cost Regular Checking Account including no per-check fees (and we even buy back your old checks*) with the University Program from Standard Federal. 
Use this financial aid to buy books, supplies, trips home and other essentials. Then obtain a Personal Identification Number (PIN) for your University Program VISA Card. lt wili help you accr.ss your account, without transaction 
Helping You Along The Way."' 
fees, through more than 200 Standard Federal Cash Machine ATMs and Standard Federal's TeleBanking services. You can also use your card at thousands of CIRRUS~ NetworkOne~ MoneyMover' and Magicline• ATM machines.' 
Call or visit Standard Federal Bank today for more information about how you can enjoy the financial aid of the University Program. 
•Ask for details tThere is no fee for aVISA cash ach-anct. Hov.'t'\'tr, there is a modesl fee for other transacuons completed a1. an ATM that i5 not owned and operated by Standard Federal 
Standard Federal Bank Savings/Financial Services  
Member~ FDIC r.;oo;;  
©1994 Standard Federal Bank  
1404 E. Ireland in front of Scottsdale Mall 219/291-8483  17330 State Rd. 23 at Douglas Rd. 219/277-0300  52710 U.S. 31 Nonh across from Nonh Village Mall 219/277-3922  216 W Washington 219/234-7171  

MISKAWAKA BREWING COMPAN 
Area's only Microbrewery! 
Study Booths Baby Back Ribs Pubunito Irish Meat Pie Sandwiches Appitizers Outdoor Beergarden 61'' Widescreen 1V 
256-9993 
3703 N. Main Mishawaka 1/2 Block south of Edison 
---------~~-----~----~~ --~ ~---­
page 16 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, August 31, I994 
I ACTIVITIES NIGHT 1994 
I 
! I TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6TH 
I 
I 
I 7:00PM-9:00PM
I I I 
~ 
•I JOYCEACC t 
I The following groups are registered to participate in Activities Night. Ifyour club or organization is not listed, and you ~ would like to participate, please stop by the Student Activities Office (315 La Fortune) to register. The deadline to regis­
I 
ter for Activities Night is noon on Friday, September 2nd. Call 631-7308 for more information.
~ 
Accounting Association Adolescent Support/Parenting Ad works African-American Student Alliance African Student Association AIDS Awareness AIDS Ministries/ Aids Assist Aikido Club Air Force ROTC American Cancer Society Club Arner. Institute of Aeronautics/ Astronautics American Lebanese Club American Red Cross American Society of Civil Engineers Arner. Society of Mechanical Engineers Amnesty International Anthropology Club Arnold Air Society Arts/Letters Business Society Asian American Association Association ofArt History Students Bagpipe Club Bahai Club Ballet Folklorica Azul y Oro Ballroom Dance Club Baptist Student Union Bed and Britches, Etc. (BABE) Best Buddies Big Brothers/Big Sisters Black Cultural Arts Festival Boxing Club Boy Scouts ofAmerica-La Salle Council Camp Millhouse, Inc. Campus Alliance Rape Elimination (CARE) Campus Fellowship
.. -<. 
Campus Ministry CANCO, Inc. (Child Abuse/Neglect) Center for the Homeless CSC Holy Cross Associates CSC Seminars CSC Student Advisory Board CSC Summer Service Projects CSC Urban Plunge CHEETA (Ethical Treatment ofAnimals) Children ofMary Climbing Club College Republicans Collegiate Choir Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics Community ofCaring Community ofthe Intnl. Lay Apostolate Community Resource Center Computer Club Coro Primavera De Nuestra Senora Council for Fun & Learn Council for the Retarded Council on International Business Develop. Cricket Club Cuban Arner. Union ofStudent Advocates Disma ofMichiana Dome Educational Talent Search 
Entrepreneur Club 
Equestrian Club 
Fellowship ofChristian Athletes 
Finance Club Fire Home First Aid Services Team Flying Club Folk Choir Foodshare German Club Goodwill of Michiana Greek American Association Habitat for Humanity Hall Presidents Council Weekend Wheels Handbell Choir Hansel Head Start Hapkido Club Hawaii Club Helpful Undergraduate Students (HUGS) 
Hispanic American Organization 
Homeless Shelter Children's Group 
India Association 
InstituteofElectrical/Electronic Engineers 
International Student Organization 
Investment Club 
Irish Accent 
Irish Outdoors 
Italiari Club 
Japan Club 
Judo Club 
Juggler 
Junior Achievement ofMichiana, Inc. 
Knights of Columbus 
Knights oflmmaculata 
Korean Club 
La Casa de Amistad, Inc. 
League ofBiack Business Students 
League ofUnited Latin American Citizens 
Legendiers League 
Liturgical Choir 
Logan 
MadMacs 
Marketing Club 
Martial Arts Institute 
Math Club 
Mental Health Assoc. of St. Joe County 
Minority Pre-Medical Society 
Mock Trial Association 
Model United Nations Multicultural Executive Committee 
Muscular Dystrophy Association 
Muslim Students Association 
NAACP 
National Hispanic Institute 
Native American Students Association 
Neighborhood Housing Services of S. Bend 
Neighborhood Study Help Program 
Pax-Christi Philippine Club 
Physical Theran·: r111h Porn Pon Squad 
Pre-Law Society 
Pre-Professional Society 
Pre-Vet Club 
Psychology Club 
Rainbows, Catholic Charities 
Ranger Challenge Team 
Rec Sports 
Recyclin' Irish 
Right-To-Life 
Rowing Club 
Rugby Club 
SADD Safe Walk Sailing Club St. Joseph's Health Center (Chapin St.) St. Stephen's Good News Club Scholastic Magazine Sex Offense Services Shenanigans Ski Team Soccer Club Society ofAutomotive Engineers Society ofProfessional Journalists Society ofWomen Engineers Sarin Cadet Club Sarin Rifle Team South Bend Comm. School Corp.-Adult Ed. Spanish Club Special Olympics Student Advocates for Inclusive Ministry Student Art F arum Student Goverment Student Pugwash Student Union Board Student Tutorial Education Program Students Encouraging Religious Vocations Students for Environmental Action Students with Aids Training Synchronized Swim Club 
TaeKwonDo Club 
Technical Review 
Toastmaster's International 
Troop Notre Dame 
Ultimate Club Undergrad Schools Comm./Hospitality Pro g. United Health Services Voices ofFaith Gospel Choir Volleyball Club (Men's) Volunteers Improving Parkview (VIP) Water Polo Wind Ensemble Women's Care Center Women's Liturgical Choir Women's Resource Center World Hunger Coalition WSND-FM WVFI-AM 
YMCA of Michiana YWCA of St. Joseph's County 

___ Sp~p.~g~~d ·~Y~~ <~tudent.Ac,tivities, Rec Sports, and the Center for Social Concerns
L---------·-.......~ .......:~'. 
-~---~--------~~---------­

Wednesday, August 31, 1994 page 17 
The Observer • SPORTS 

• BASEBAll. 
Owners make gesture in hopes of resolving players' strike 
By RONALD BLUM Associated Press 
Deadline for 
NEW YORK

post-season 
Baseball owners today post­
rosters dropped, poned their quarterly meetings and reached an agreement with the players' association to post­
no meetings 
pone the deadline for postsea­son rosters.
scheduled 
Executive council chairman 
T tle 0 tlserver 
is looking for 
Sports Writers 
If interested in writing sports stories for The Observer, please call George Dohrmann at 631­4543. 
Bud Selig issued a statement saying there was no purpose to holding meetings during the players' walkout, which entered its 19th day. The meetings had been scheduled for next Wednesday-Friday in Detroit. 
"As long as the players are on strike, the clubs will devote all their efforts to resolving the dispute," Selig said. 
Meanwhile, the com­missioner's office sent a notice to clubs saying they will have until 48 hours after an agree­ment to end the strike to set their postseason rosters. However, clubs may not add players to their postseason ros­ters who are acquired from other teams after Wednesday. 
On Monday, management negotiator Richard Ravitch said he could envision the dispute wiping out the World Series. 
"I think the owners want to do everything humanly possible to save the postseason," Ravitch said during a telephone conference call. "But they also want to save baseball for the future, and that is a very, very high priority." 
No bargaining sessions are scheduled. The strike, which began Aug. 12, canceled 14 more games today, raising the total to 246. 
"So far as I know, there isn't anything going on," union head Donald Fehr said. "They know we're willing to get together if there's a purpose." 
With 10 percent of the season canceled, federal mediators said they will meet separately Wednesday with players and owners but won't call another meeting unless they think there will be progress. 
Fehr, convinced that owners have a preset timetable, said the union considered having players return to the field for the remainder of the regular season, collect the rest of their salaries and then strike the postseason. Players are paid their entire salaries by the time the regular season ends 
"We've played with the notion but not seriously," he said. "Either they want to make a deal or they don't want make a deal. We'll find out soon enough. It does not appear they want to make a deal." 
Ravitch spoke with John Calhoun Wells, director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, and Fehr spoke with Brian Flores, an assistant to Wells. Flores said the mediators wouldn't call meetings just to call meetings. 
"If there's any reason for it, there will be one," he said by telephone from Washington. "But we've haven't made up our mind." 
Ravitch said a stumbling block to the negotiations is the players' belief that owners will abandon their salary cap pro­posal. That view traveled across the bargaining table during last week's talks. 
"The owners came back hav­ing the impression that the players still thought the owners would fold," Ravitch said. 
Ravitch still said he had trou­ble believing the stoppage will continue into next season. Fehr has said the strike will continue "as long as it takes" to shelve the salary cap. 
Ravitch, whose $750,000-a­year contract expires Dec. 31, said he would stay into next year but wouldn't promise to remain if the walkout becomes protracted. Chicago White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf has said it is possible the strike could extend into 1996. 
The BA II PLUS has unique display prompts that guide you through problems. It offers basic business functions like time-value-of-money. Plus, it delivers cash flow analysis for internal rate of return (IRR). Net present value (NPV). Bond calculations. Depreciation. Advanced statistics. 

Management, marketing, finance or accounting major? You know dollars and cents. Get a BA II PLUSTM Calculator from Texas Instruments. It's designed for students and professionals and recommended by professors. Or try the BA-35, our most affordable 
., 

model for time-value-of-money and one-variable statistics. 
If you're in the financial fast lane, TI Business Calculators make the most sense. Try one at your local TI retailer today, or for more information, call 1-800-TI-CARES. 
E X T E N D I N G Y 0 U R R E A C H'" 
lf1TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
e-mail: ti-cares@ lobby.ti.com In Canada, call 1-800-661-2007. ©1994 Tl. IHOOOIBI 

The University Club is now hiring: Dishwashers Servers Bussers Bartender 
Full & Part Time! 
Apply within 9:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. 
on ND Avenue next door to CCE 
• No experience necessary 
• Flexible hours 
• Great experience 
• Any majors 
We are also looking for a PUBLIC ADDRESS ANNOUNCER for men's soccer games which pays $20 per game 
Call BRETT at 631-81 03 for more information. 
Another Virgo Turns 21­Watch out, girls! 
Happy Birthday 
JJ®~~~ 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Jessie 



·----~-~------------------~ 
--------~----~-----~--~----·--------~--------~ 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, August 31, 1994 
• NFL 
Bills ready for one more shot at Super Bowl 
HOURS: Morday-Tiursday 11 :00 a.m. ­1:00 a.m. Friday &Satllllay 11:00 am-3:00am. Sunday Noon -1:00 am.  ''The best delivered pizza on campus." -The Observer, '93-'94 "Fastest growing small business." -Business Week '94 "Best delivered pizza in Michiana.'' -Best in Michiana Now Contest '94  

By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 

General manager John Butler opened training camp this sum­mer with the words that have been on everybody's mind since the Super Bowl: "Here we go again." 
Yes, here the Bills go again, the team to beat in the AFC East and maybe the whole con­ference, trying to forget about their drive for five and focus on the run for one: One Super Bowl victory that will silence the skeptics and affirm the four-time AFC champions as winners. 
"Nobody expects you to go. Nobody wants you to go. I think our players' attitude is, 'So beat us,' " Butler said. 
"They've heard how they've been bashed, and they don't respond to it. They've been there. Other teams talk a great game, they've been there ­and gone back. That's the dif­ference." 
Despite more wins than any other team this decade, the Bills still need a world champi­onship to validate themselves as the team of the '-90s. Mter four consecutive conference titles, a first in NFL history, they won't be satisfied unless the ring for their thumbs says Super Bowl champs. 
"Hell yes, there would be dis­appointment," quarterback Jim Kelly said. "We expect only the best." 
Buffalo has lost 12 players from the team that went to the Super Bowl in 
• BASEBAll 
Jordan's season may get extended 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Michael Jordan may go on playing baseball until December. 
The Chicago White Sox on Tuesday asked the Arizona Fall League for permission to allow Jordan to play in its upcoming season. 
Jordan is currently with the White Sox's Double-A Birmingham team. He is bat­ting .203 with three home runs, 49 RBis and 30 stolen bases. He has struck out 109 times in 424 at-bats, and has 10 errors in the outfield. 
Jordan is scheduled to finish his first year in pro baseball on Sept. 3 when the Southern League ends its season. 
But the former NBA star has expressed interest in sharpen­ing his skills, and the White Sox want him to do it in the Arizona Fall League. 
White Sox general manager Ron Schueler said he expected to hear in seven to 10 days whether Jordan is approved. 
Terry Francona, the manager of Jordan's team in Birmingham, will manage the Scottsdale Scorpions, the Arizona team on which Jordan would play. 
Each big league club can sub­mit up to six players, almost all of them from Double-A and Triple-A, for the Arizona league. The White Sox's list of six last week did not include Jordan. 
The Scorpions will be made up of prospects from the White Sox, Boston Red Sox, Baltimore Orioles, Kansas City Royals and San Francisco Giants. 
January, and 25 since it won its first AFC title in 1990. But those that return include nine players with 38 Pro Bowl ap­pearances among them and 20 who have won four AFC cham­pionships each. 
"Five or six of these players, they have never known any­thing but Super Bowls," Butler said. "It's their fifth year in the National Football League and that's all they've ever been to. 
"If you're a young rookie who comes in here and knows noth­ing different, that's how they see it, and they fall right in line. They think, 'Well, this is how you become champions.' " 
Kelly and most of the other Bills will tell you they aren't thinking of the Super Bowl now. Coach Marv Levy is concerned about the opener against the Jets; some others admit to set­ting their sights on an AFC East title. 
"Every team wants to go to the Super Bowl, but you have to win the division first and go from there. That's what our focus is," linebacker Mark Maddox said. 
"If you put pressure on your­self, you're going to be bound to fail. You just have to go into it as a new season. And that's exactly what it is, a new sea­son. It's nothing else but a new season, and that's what we have to work at, a new season." 
What Maddox is trying to say is, apparently, is it's a new sea­son. The Bills have some new players and they have said goodbye to some of the old ones. 
Gone are Howard Ballard and Jim Ritcher from the offensive line; Nate Odomes, Kirby Jackson, Mark Kelso and J.D. Williams from the secondary; both backup tight ends, Keith McKeller and Rob Awalt. 
Of course, it isn't all bad news for the Bills. 
Newcomer Jeff Burris, a first­round draft pick out of Notre Dame, had an interception in the exhibition opener and an 82-yard punt return in the finale. Second-rounder Bucky Brooks from North Carolina also looked good, catching three preseason passes for 72 yards, includiQg a 34-yard touchdown last week. 
Kelly also was sharp in three preseason cameos, completing 21 of 28 passes for 311 yards and two touchdowns in just seven series. Levy said the ten­dinitis in his throwing shoulder 
- there  had  been  talk  of  
surgery  - "was neve r a c on­ 
cern.''  

But how well the 34-year-old Kelly does in his ninth year also will depend on how well the Bills' thin offensive line protects him. 
Replacing Ballard and Ritcher, both two-time Pro Bowl selections, are Jerry 
Crafts and Glenn Parker. Crafts sprained his ankle in the sec­ond preseason game and is questionable for the opener. 
If he can't play, Parker will move to right tackle, forcing second-year player Corbin Lacina into the starting lineup at left guard. The Bills have no other guards on their roster, so should something happen to Lacina or right guard John Davis, they would have to do even more juggling. 
"Every year it's kind of a question mark,'' Parker said. "And by the end of the year they're singing our praises." 
[)eiH~tirf Tk fj~ Hzza/ I 
Now Hiring! 
I 
•Drivers 
need acar, license, and insur­ance 

•Drivers 
average $1000 an hour and up! 


----·-·--­
No Car? No Problem! 
•Flexible 
Schedules for inside personnel 

•10 
to 40 Hour Schedules available 

•1/2 
Price Pizza •EOE 



\ 

Wednesday, August 31, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• MEN'S SOCCER PREVIEW 
..

Berticelli still optimistic despite tough schedule ~ 
the ability to change the style of play, but is also very important in the team's ability to compete. 
"We have depth and we need it because of the tough games that we play back to back," Berticelli said. "Players that were on the bench for one game may be the starters as the week goes on." 
The Irish play three of the top six pre­season ranked teams: No. 2 Indiana, No. 4 Cal State Fullerton and No. 6 UCLA and two more in the top 18, No. 15 Penn State and No. 18 Wisconsin. 
Besides these teams, the Irish also face a conference schedule that will play a major role in their drive for a national championship. 
"There are no soft spots in this sched­ule," Berticelli said. "Every game that is not a conference game is against a na­tional powerhouse. This is one of the most difficult schedules that we have ever had." 
Yet, there is no fear of the Irish col­lapsing under the pressure of this diffi­cult schedule. Last year the Irish defeated Rutgers and South Carolina, both of whom are ranked in the top five of this years preseason coaches poll, and Berticelli is confident that those victories show how strong this team can be. 
"Those (Rutgers and South Carolina) are the same teams that they were last year when we beat them," he said. ''I'm confident that we can beat anyone in the country." 
Joseph 
continued from page 24 
This season that situation will be reversed. With the majority of the starters being seniors, many of the freshmen will have to wait their turn as the upperclassmen take on the majority of the scoring duties. This is a situation which Joseph believes is a benefit to the freshmen. 
"It allows us to show the freshmen how hard they need to work, and how to win." 
Even though Joseph may no longer have big numbers in the scoring column, head coach Mike Berticelli recognizes the importance of his other contri­butions. 
"Jean is a quality soccer player," said Berticelli. "But more important is his tremen­dous leadership-he leads by example both on and off the field. His contribution to the team would be great even if he never stepped foot onto the field." 
And Joseph believes that by being switched to the midfield, he will be able to contribute more to the Irish style of play this season. 
"We're such a veteran team that we want to play ball-con­trol, possession soccer," Joseph said. "Midfield is a more rounded position, and though I liked scoring goals, I enjoy the challenge of the new position." 
Joseph's senior season will also be Notre Dame's last in the MCC, before joining the Big East in 1995. For Joseph, this switch for the entire team has both pros and cons. 
"It will be great for the team to play in the Big East with all the competitive teams. But the MCC has been good to us-the automatic bid got us into the NCAA tournament last year." 
GRAPHIC DESIGNERS 
call The Observer's Chris Mullins 634-1771 

By TOM SCHLIDT Sports Writer 
With the end of the '94 World Cup and the departure of Italy's Roberto Baggio and Brazil's Romario many feel that the soccer season is over, when in reality, it is just beginning. 
The best soccer in the U.S. takes place in the fall as the top universities take the field to battle each other for the national championship. 
In the thick of this battle is the Notre Dame men's team. 
Last year the Irish finished the year as the regular season and tournament champion of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference and was one of the select members invited to the NCAA tourna­ment, though the year ended with a dis­sapointing loss to Wisconsin in the first round. 
"Last year was last year," Irish coach Mike Berticelli said, "and now we have to focus on the year in front of us." 
And what a year this can be. The Irish are ranked No. 16 in the preseason coaches poll (ISAA), above such pro­grams as Duke and Wisconsin. Also, the Irish were selected as one of the few teams that will play on national televi­sion when they play Wake Forest on Sept. 28. 
Much of this respect by the ISAA and the soccer world is due to the level of experience remaining on the team that lost only one starter from their NCAA tournament team of a year ago. 
Thirteen seniors return, led by for­ward Tim Oates and midfielders Jean Josepb. Keith Carlson, Jason Fox, Ray Prado, and Toot Richardson. 
Kevin Adkisson, Chris Dean, and Dane Whitley, and goaltender Bert Bader anchor the defense. 
This senior class was Berticelli first recruiting class at Notre Dame and he has been very pleased by the progress they have made over the past three years. 
"They have come a long way," he said. "I saw them come in as scrawny fresh­men, and now they have become strong soccer players and have provided quali­ty leadership." 
Yet, this is not a team of just seniors, but also boasts a bevy of other talented players. This depth is led by junior Bill Lanza, who is also a member of the 1996 U.S. Olympic team, and led the team last year in points with 40. 
Sophomores Brian Engesser, Tony Capasso, Chris Mathis, Konstantin Koloskov, and Peter Gansler, and fresh­men Ryan Turner, Bill Savarino, and Joe Gallo are also impact players for the Irish. 
Considering the difficulty of the sched­ule this year, it is this depth that is going to keep the Irish competitive. 
And it is also a key reason for the switch from a 4-4-2 formation to a 3-5­
2. This change shows the confidence that the coaching staff has in the ability 
WELCOME WEEK '94 
Hey You! 

LaFortune Student Center 
Stop on in and see what we have to offer ­visit our offices and businesses and then enjoy the entertairunen 
•
VIRTUAL REALITY 

•CLIFF 
ERICKSON PERFORMING LIVE 

•FORTUNE 
TELLER 

•ROCK'EM 
SOCK'EM ROBOTS 

•CARICATURE 
ARTIST 

•FREE 
FOOD 

•MUCH, 
MUCH MORE! 


t::e()Ut}"¥1 ~ tt>U ~ S7U'Z>E?t7 Ae?n"7?7ES A'Jtt) neS7U'ZJS?n 'U?t'lt:ne ~tJ,t;eD 
• fiRST TEAM 
Probably Starting lineup 
FORWARDS Tim Oates (SA) Ryan Turner (FA) 
MIDFIELD LT. Keith Carlson (SA) MID. Jason Fox (SA) Konstantin Klolskov (SO) Tont Richardson (SA) Jean Joseph (SA) 
BACKFIELD Chris Dean (SA) Brian Engesser (SO) Kevin Adkisson (SA) 
GOALIE Bert Bader (SA) 
of its players to control the ball and the game. It also leads to a more offensive style of play as the Irish will be able to keep the ball in the opponents end of the field. 
Berticelli is excited about this change. 
"With the quality of talent, experience, the ability to control the ball, and the overall speed we have the potential to become an explosive team," he said. "We are going to be exciting this year." 
The benefit of this depth is not only in 
DOOR PRIZES: 
CONCERT TICKE.TS llMERIC1tN JURLINB TICKE.TS CD PIJIYERS MOVIE RENTJUS CJtRROT TOP TICJOrrS TOM DELUCJI TICKE.TS BEliCH TOWELS ND SWEJITSHIRTSIT·SHIRTS 
MilNY. MilNY PIZZilS 
MUCH MORE 



Wednesday, August 31, 1994

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS 
Schenkels Dairy Products  Deli Specials  
2% or Skim Milk  Yogurt  Super Deli Sub  Chef Salad  
$1 69 per gallon  peach-raspberry mixed berry-strawberry  $199  $269  
2 for $1°0  Was $259  

Come and see Jack from Sunny J0 J.51 Friday September 2 from 12:0o-2:00 p.m. 
"lunchtime Gold" live 
Gas will be $1.01 during remote along with Hot Dogs & 12 oz Pepsi FREE 

• fOOTBALL 
Holtz puts Powlus decision on hold 
Sollman getting a look at kick returner 
By MIKE NORBUT Associate Spans Editor 
Notre Dame head football coach Lou Holtz addressed many issues at his weekly press conference yesterday. However, none were as impor­tant as the condition of Irish quarterback Ron Powlus. 
"Whether or not he (Powlus) plays depends on how sharp he is," Holtz said. "If he can throw for two days in a row and then feel okay on Thursday, he will start." 
The highly touted quarter­back was cleared to throw 30 passes in yesterday's practice. He had thrown only twice out of the past twelve days previously. 
Despite the gloomy outlook, Holtz was quick to praise Powlus. 
"If anyone can pull it off, he can," Holtz said. "I just wish he could have more repetitions before the game and experi­ence more success in practice." 
HOLDING BACK? 

Looking back on last year's season, the Irish had two com­pletely opposite performances against Northwestern and Michigan. 
The disparity in play led many to believe that Holtz did not try everything he could against the Wildcats the year before. 
"Holding back on Northwest­ern?" the coach asked. "You gotta be kidding... we were behind 12-7 in the third quar­ter. We did the exact same things against Michigan that we did against Northwestern." 
Holtz continued to say he had not even considered when he would play either Tom Krug or Leon Blunt in the event of a big Irish lead. 
"All I'm concerned about is win­ning the game," he .,. .~ said. 


NEW AND IMPROVED 

Scott 

S e v e r a I Sollmann changes have been made on the offensive line since spring drills, much to Holtz's great pleasure. 
"We're better on the offensive line at this stage this year than we were last year," he said. "The difference is that there is not as much area for improve­ment as there was last year." 
Much of the coach's praise landed on senior Mark Zataveski, who recently made a transition from guard to center. 
"Mark doesn't have great feet, but he's a great competi­tor. He finds a way to win," Holtz said. "He's the typical team man. He's always asking, 'What can I do to help Notre Dame?"' 
•I 

-o -Summer Blow-Out 
A full bash of Savings 


HO 
corner of Grape & Edison Coke 2-liter 
KOOL Cigarettes Dolly IYa:Jison Dunkers 
s11 99 
99(
99( 

per carton No limit! 
expires 9-6-94 expires 9-6-94 • 
ROAD HOGS 
With a victory in Saturday's contest. Notre Dame will tie a record for consecutive road wins. The mark of 15 was orig­inally set between the years of 1929-31 under Knute Rockne. 
"Our teams of the past have always responded well on the road," Holtz commented. · 
SPECIAL QUERIES 
With only three days before Notre Dame's first game, the most unsettled area clearly lies in the special teams. 
Walk-on kicker Scott Cengia will handle the kick-off duties as well as longer field goals. Senior Stefan Schroffner will be kicking extra point attempts and short-range field goals. 
"Cengia has better range," Holtz said. "The ball really flies off his foot." 
However, the search contin­ues for a game-breaking kickoff return man. Running backs Lee Becton and Robert Farmer have been showcased lately, but Holtz remains unsatisfied. 
The team welcomed the ser­vices of sophomore Scott Soli­mann yesterday to also vie for the spot. 
Sollmann, an outfielder on the Irish baseball team, was an outstanding high school football player in Cincinnati, Ohio and was recruited by Penn St. and Stanford for gridiron action. 
Sophomore Brian Ford will 
handle the punting duties on 
Saturday. 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
Lou Holtz raved about the play of center Mark Zataveski at yesterday's 


press conference 
Srunple 
continued from page 24 
"Jeremy is hard-working player who goes to the ball," defensive coordinator Bob Davie said. "He is also a vocal player on the field." 
It was probably the hiring of Davie which most helped Sample. The mention of the at­tacking defense style Davie brought from Texas A&M prompts even a bigger smile across Sample's cheeks. 
"Coach Davie's system fits me because it lets us attack and try and make big plays," Sample said. "I think it's going to be a better system for the whole defense. Our front seven is ex­tremely talented and really can do something when we are al­lowed to go after the ball." 
Sample may be the key piece in a linebacking corps that ri­vals any in the country. Justin Goheen is a rock at the other inside spot, and Renaldo Wynn and Bert Berry are speedsters who can cover and rush the passer from the corners. 
"I am playing with some great guys," Sample said. "I know they are going to do there job and I know what I have to do. This is something I have been working for and now it's finally coming true." 
And his family will be there to see it. 


r::-------------,
1Two 1 2 packs of Coke1 
! $549 ! 
I with coupon I expires 9-6-94
1L-------------.J1 

---~

.----------­
~---­

Wednesday, August 31, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 



Major
Leaguell 
America's favorite team is back. The original cast returns for a hilarious new season! 
Starring Charlie Sheen, Tom Berenger, Corbin Bernsen, Bob Uecker, 

Randy Quaid and 
WIRNE!l HOME VIDEO 
David Keith. 
Rated PG-1 3-Comedy 
©1994 Warner Home Video ©1994 Morgan Creek Productions. Inc. 

\Chasers 
It was supposed to be an ordinary prisoner transfer. But this was no ordinary prisoner. 
S~arring Tom Berenger, Erika Eleniak, William 
McNamara, Gary Busey, Marilu Henner, Dean Stockwell, and Dennis Hopper. Directed by Dennis Hopper. 
Rated R-Action Comedy 
©1994 Warner Home Video 
~HOME VIDEO

©1994 Morgan Creek Productions. Inc. 
-· 

MEl ER
® 

MICHIANA AREA 
•M!SHAWAKA-Grape 
Rd. just South of Douglas 

• 
SOUTH BEND-Cleveland at Portage Rd. 


r'--MEijER COUPON --, 
Rent 1 New Release, 
Get 1 New Release Rental 
FREE~ 

1.99 value. Choose from many titles in stock. 
GOOD 
I
THHU 
H/:JH/94 M#:IU 5 41250 10616 
L
l~lllii•J:!JiWUI•J3o1iiJ•1:1J~;Iifl'IIO.J 

--------~--------------------, 
page 21 
• ColTS PREVIEW 
Colts hoping change shows on the field 
By STEVE HERMAN 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
It's been 10 years, six coach­es and 100 losses since the Indianapolis Colts first trotted onto the artificial turf of the Hoosier ... er, RCA Dome. 
Maybe the city's recent re­naming of its downtown sta­dium is an omen. You know, a complete break from the first decade of struggles and heartaches for the NFL's perennial nags. 
Bill Tobin already changed just about everything else since he was hired in January as the new stablemaster. The new Colts responded with a 4-0 ex­hibition record, their first un­beaten preseason since 1989 and just the second in 25 years: 
"It culminates from the off­season to now. I told our foot­ball club that we want them to come back Sunday like they came into mini-camp and to come back like they did in training camp," coach Ted Marchibroda said. "And I'm sure that they will." 
~ndianapolis opens the season Sunday against Houston. But it will be noticeably different from the team that went 4-12 last winter in Marchibroda's second year in his second stint as coach. 
Eighteen Colts who played in the final game last season no longer are with the team, in­cluding quarterback Jeff George, running backs Rodney Culver and Anthony Johnson, receivers Jessie Hester and Reggie Langhorne, returner Clarence Verdin and linebacker Duane Bickett. 
Jack Trudeau, a longtime backup and a popular counter­point to the pouty George, also was let go. The entire defensive coaching staff was sacked, too. 
Tobin, the former Chicago Bears vice president in charge of player personnel, took over all football operations. 
Free agency brought line­backer Tony Bennett from Green Bay and receiver Floyd Turner from New Orleans. Tobin signed former Bears quarterback Jim Harbaugh and former Jets quarterback Browning Nagle to join holdover Don Majkowski. 
Tobin hinted he would con­sider another quarterback, ei­ther Trent Dilfer or Heath Schuler, in the draft. Yet given the Colts' dismal running game -last in the NFL is about as low as you can get -there was no hesitation on draft day to make Marshall Faulk their No. 1 pick, second overall. 
"We're going to be able to pass the football and we're go­ing to be able to run it," Marchibroda said. "Faulk has given us a new dimension in the running game. We just haven't had anybody like him. Faulk is one of those big-play players. And most important, we have good young talent and good older leadership." 
Faulk, playing barely one half in each game, totaled 114 yards rushing in the preseason. His only big play was a 72-yard TD reception from Harbaugh in last week's 24-7 victory over Cleveland. 
"It's time to get it going; it's time to play ball," Faulk said. 
"I think I had a pretty nice preseason. I think I showed all the coaches that I can do the things they were expecting me to. I can catch the ball, I can run with it in traffic, and I can run outside with it. 
'Tm getting settled in. I'm learning my teammates. I'm learning how to set up my blocks and work well with the offense," he said. 
Indianapolis had the seventh pick in the first round, too, as part of the trade with Atlanta for George. But Tobin sent that pick to the Rams for the No. 5 spot and took linebacker Trev Alberts to fill the spot vacated by Bickett. 
A season-ending dislocated elbow for Alberts in the first exhibition game against Seattle wasn't in the plans. 
Harbaugh bruised his hand against Cleveland, but X-rays were negative. Brian Stablein also dislocated an elbow. 
"I think we're getting there," said Harbaugh, who will start the opener. "We're right about there. A lot of the big questions have been answered." 
Harbaugh, who started 58 of 61 games the past four years before he was waived by Chicago, played the first half of each preseason game and was 27-of-38 for 384 yards, two touchdowns, two interceptions and three sacks. Majkowski and Nagle, who alternated in second-half relief during th~ preseason, combined for 31-of­42 for 431 yards. 
"We've got a lot of pluses," Harbaugh said. "The young guys have really stepped up. They're all coming through. We've got a solid offensive unit, but we must realize now that it is for real." 
The Colts averaged 80.5 rushing yards a game last year; in the preseason this year, they averaged 111.3. Sixth-round draft pick Lamont Warren was the top rusher with 160 yards; Roosevelt Potts, who led the club as a rookie last year, picked up 80 yards. 
"I was hoping we would run better," Marchibroda said. "But I think that's the last thing to come around, really. So I feel good about them. They've done a good job overall.We're pass­ing the ball well," he said, not­ing the team's 72.5 completion percentage in preseason. "Probably, if there's one area, maybe it's third down we're not as successful as what I'd hoped to be, but other than that, we're throwing the ball well. 
"Harbaugh is a veteran NFL quarterback, and he's not going to make many mistakes. We worked a lot with him during the off-season. We thought he lost his confidence in Chicago, but he has it back now," Marchibroda continued. 
"I think we have more big­play people than what we've had previously. We have a seri­ous football team, a team that has worked awfully hard. A lot of times this happens. When you work hard, when you're prepared to play, these kind of things can happen." 


---------------~--------··------·­
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, August 31, 1994 
... • COllEGE FooTBALL 
Schnellenberger still wondering about his Cardinals 

Coach unsure going into Kentucky game 
By CHRIS DUNCAN Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. 

After more than a year of hype, Louisville coach Howard Schnellenberger still has no idea what to expect when the Cardinals meet Kentucky at 7 
p.m. EST Saturday in 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Anyone interested in try­ing out for the men's ten­nis team should show up at the Courtney Tennis Center, located at the outdoor tennis courts, on September 6 at 3 
p.m. For more information, contact assistant coach J.P. Weber at 631-4841. It is important that individuals let Coach Weber know about their class schedule, creden­tials as a player and local phone number. 
Any off-campus women interested in playing off­campus interhall football, 
call Kelly Guerin at 273-MASH 
Go Long ...Foot Long! 


Include a stop at SUBWAY in your pattern to Soldier Field this weekend. 
Lexington. 
At least 27 players will make their first collegiate starts in the teams' first meeting since 1924. 
Schnellenberger said at a news conference Tuesday that the youth and inexperience on display Saturday night will be all too appropriate for the his­toric occasion. 
"It's going to be a revelation to me and a revelation to (Kentucky coach) Bill Curry," Schnellenberger said. "But this is probably the right situation 
by September 5. Don't play for your dorm, play for us. 
Open tryouts for varsity baseball will be held on Wednesday, Sept. 7 at 3:00 
p.m. The tryouts will be held at Frank Eck Stadium and all walk-ons or people interested are welcome to attend. 
Anyone interested in try­ing out for men's varsity lacrosse, there will be a meeting on Friday, Sept. 2 at 
4:00 p.m. in Loftus auditori­um. 
A Notre Dame hockey meeting will be held on Thursday, Sept. 1 at 4:00 at the Loftus Center. 

Saturday September 3, 1994 
T 
8:30 a.m. -12:30 p.m. 117 Cushing Auditorium 
Sign-up in 1~1 O'Shaughnessy 
to have in the inaugural game -you have two teams that no­body knows how they're going to play." 
With coaching stints at Alabama and Miami, Fla. on his resume, Schnellenberger is familiar with fierce in-state ri­valries. But he said establishing this rivalry could prove to be far different a challenge. 
"I don't know if you could name a half-dozen coaches who are still alive that have been in the initiation process," Schnellenberger said. "I don't know if this can develop into a Florida-Florida State or Alabama-Auburn or whatever -we shouldn't expect that to happen. 
"Rivalries are long-standing things that take years and years and years," said Schnellenberger. "There has to 
r ·r_
r--~----------------~~----------------~
lI ,. -­
ll Catch I 
the Action! 
Notre Dame vs. Northwestern Saturday, September 3rd 
Round trip bus transportation to Soldier Field 
(Buses leave at 3:00 PM from Alumni/Senior Club )1 ITickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info. Desk I 
I I I I 
Game tickets available at the I I 

LaFortune Info. Desk with Student I.D. 
I I 
J Sponsored by Student Activities I 
~--------------------------------------~ 
be an initial year and I'm excit­ed that it's caught fever like it has. 
But we don't know how far it's going to go or how competi­tive the two teams are going to be. 
As I see any rivalry, the only thing that's important is to have a competitive game year after year after year. If it ever gets 
~IM.M 
at SAII'IT MARY'S 
ATTENTION ND/SMC 
STUDENTS: 
We need desk clerks, housemen, and bartenders! 
Apply in person, any time of the day. 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY SEPT. 2-3 Joyce Center 
• Notre Dame 
• Western Michigan 
• 
Michigan State 

• 
Illinois-Chicago 


FREE FOOD, PRIZES, ENTERTAINMENT! 
lopsided, you lose all the inter­est." 
But Schnellenberger said Saturday's game will take on a historic significance regardless of the outcome. 
"This is much bigger than the result of the game," Schnellenberger said. "It is more important to play them with the opportunity to win." 



•Merm Notre Dame South North (Welcome Back Picnic} Chicken Patty Corn Dogs Vegetable Lo Mein Italian Sausage Steamed Rice Macaroni & Cheese Broccoli Spears Saint Marys Call 284-4500 for menu information  
nly you can prevent forest fires!  


Tuesday, August 31 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~\,Mot-\. Ct>-N 
I.~ AI iO\.JR 
WAlLE\ f<:R A. 
FEW t-1.\N\.l"\t.S? 
I, VI-\, WANT TO 
SEt. ~8\\lt'I.G. 
lbW ~ VlE (3:)\~G lD 11'·\1/ffiT "' ~<.aecP 't{£ IX:>~1 wow f>.l-1'\-rn\NG N?0\ll MI\C\\1\-\'i:.S 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Hagar the Horrible's
1 It goes from honeystem to stern 

26 "Rock of-" 17 Young 'un 
Mon1 a11d Dad·, 
Now that we have your sot)s and daugl1ters, how are track of thetn? 
•scri to e server! 

Keep up with the latest happenings from under the Dome. 
N arne Mail to:

Get the news that affects your 
Address The Observer

Notre Dame/Saint Mary's student 
City State Zip P.O. Box Q

for $30 a semester or $50 a year. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

[Y\ARK fn~ WoP.i>> "t>£-~,CI-·U\,.,.6E 1--\&\S 
(J.mE To Non<.~. 
A,...~W!Nb 1-s pos~16L(. 1 ! 
ITS EAS'\. T.Wt.l<t. ~Rt. J\J51 fOU~ Sl\o\I'Lt. MA.C\-\\WcS \0 /l.LI'CR FORCE:: l\-1£. L'2J'£R I 1\.\£ 1'\JLLE'\, 1\-\E \t'I.CU~£D 
PL~>.~t. ~>-ND, u~J<., mt. 11'1.\t.R­
NAL CCl\11'3\JS\\ON. EN.GINE. 
\ ~' 
---L"' 
58 Calendar abbr. 59 Arson? 63 West of Gotham 
City &5 "I'm-duck" &&-hemp 
(fiber plant) 67 "I Spy" star 68 List of 
candidates &9 It may come 
with points 70 Grown-up grigs 71 Biblical king 
with 1 0 wives 72 Muffs 
DOWN 

1 North African 
fortress 2 Concert cry 3 Filling 
surrounder 
4 "Mrs. Battle's Opinions on Whist" writer 
5 ile de Ia Cite site &The-Man 
(tarot card) 7 Actor John a First name in 
supper club entertainment 
9 Drift 10 Not at a distance 11 Logician 
12 Flight approval 13 22° 30' 21 Baking potato 
I'M 11'{\l't:.l-III~G 
fl. 1<.0~1 10 Mt>-~E 1\-\t. '3£.1), IM I NIT\) A. 
1-\r>-'4£. ~E C\\0\CE
GRP.l--IT. O>.N t d!+m++l 
\-\l\'4't:. $5()? wo~ ra 9-.'\ ~~UT fr.MIL'\
I 
HlCClURf>Q:t..\£.1-\T. 

In the longest hour of his life, Morty takes the dare of his sloth buddies and crosses the autobahn. 
• Of Interest 
W.<E 1--\'\ '+JQRI) 
• Mock Interview Sign-ups have begun for graduat­FOR II, I't-11 A.N 
ing students interested in practicing their interview skills 
E.~l"i:.RT AT 
for the job search. Company recruiters will conduct ll'l'lE.t-I'IIOI-\S. 
videotaped interviews and provide feedback for improve­ment prior to the start of on-campus interviews_ Sign up in Career and Placement Services (no appointments can be taken by phone). 
• 
Auditions For Waiting For Godot will be held in Washington Hall, room 110 at 7:30 p.m. tonight. Auditions are open to all students. Auditions continue Thursday at 7:30p.m. 

• 
Notre Dame Communication And Theatre invites all students interested in participating in plays this year to a reception in the laboratory theatre of Washington Hall, Wednesday, August 31 at 6:30 p.m. Refreshments will be served. 


THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON
DAVE KELLETT 
BILL WATTERSON 
B:lt W\1£.({ ~·R£. nit. CtNER '5\tlR'{ ov PoP\JlAR 
1-\KAA~\CS, I'll 

29 Thrilled response 31 Tony of "Who's the Boss?" 
32 License 
35 Pen 
37 Trans-Atlantic flier 39 Emerson, The -ofConcord 40 Game originally called "fives" 41 Descartes conclusion 42 Fashion 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
you goil1g to keep 

I 
j j 
! 
'l 
5 Ten Command­ments word 
10 Companion of Ollie 14 Dancer Pavlova 15 Champing at the bit 16 A billion years 17 Con game 18 Vacant 19 Soap unit 20 Stoves that don't work? 23 "Diamonds-­a girl's ..." 24 "Gidget" star 25 Perform perfectly 
30 It was banned in 1973 33 Beatniks beat it 34 Interjections 3&-inapple 38 lamb and dactyl 39 Filming actors? 43 Pasture sounds 44 Carl of baseball, informally 45 Tic-toe bridge 
4&Lady--, founder of the Girl Guides 
48 Trouble in France 50 Frame 54 Itch initiator 56 Partake of 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
43 Sot's spot 47 Big-, Calif. 49 Not staccato 51 A sew-and­
sew? 52 Hubbub 53 Is foppish 55 Grind 
57 Kind of attraction 60 Run in place 61 About &2No­(register button) 63 Plane downer 64 Like threatening bills 
SPORTS 

page 24 Wednesday, August 31, 1994 
• MEN'S SOCCER PREVIEW 
y 
• 
Berticelli 
ARD 
Jean Joseph learns to play a new role 
ByRIANAKEY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame athletes have long been given nicknames based on character­istics of their athletic performances. 
Some names, like "Rocket" Ismael, even become a permanent part of Fighting Irish lore. 
If senior men's soccer player Jean Joseph were named for the evolution of his soccer career, statistics may dictate that he be called "Joseph Jean" as a testament to the seemingly backward development of his career. 
The squad's leading scorer and an all-Midwestern Collegiate Conference selection as a freshman, Joseph played sparingly as a sophomore, was switched from forward to midfield as a junior, and enters his senior seaa­son as a self-described "role player." 
Being removed from the spotlight may be a difficult transition for some athletes, but Joseph's new position on the team suits him just fine. 
"As a team, we're very optimistic about the upcoming season," said Joseph. "We have a lot of senior leadership, and that's where I come in. I want to do whatever I have to for the team to be successful. If that's scoring goals, that's fine, but if it's playing a role, that's fine, too." 
In Joseph's first season he was one of nine freshmen to start for the Irish, enabling him to step in and make an immediate impact on the scoreboard. 
see JOSEPH I page 19 
• '1994 SCHEDULE 
SEPT3 AT PENN STATE SEPT. 7 NORTHWESTERN SEPT. 9 OHIO STATE SEPT.15 AT NORTHERN ILLINOIS SEPT. 18 XAVIER SEPT. 20 DETROIT SEPT. 23 AT INDIANA SEPT. 25 LASALLE SEPT. 28 AT WAKE FOREST OCT.2 WISCONSIN-MILWAUKEE OCT.5 AT LOYOLA (ILL.) OCT. 7 ILLINOIS-CHICAGO OCT.9 WISCONSIN-GREEN BAY OCT.14 SMU OCT.16 BOWLING GREEN OCT.lB AT DEPAUL OCT.21 WISCONSIN OCT2B AT UCLA OCT. 30 AT UC-FULLERTON NOV. 3-6 MCC TOURNAMENT 
• Home Games In Bold 
• fOOTBAlL 
LB's play is more than a Sample 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 

Jeremy Sample's eyes light up and he breaks out in a big smile when you men-1 tion Saturday's Notre Dame/Northwestern game at Soldier Field. 
"I have a lot of fami­ly in Chicago," Sample said. "Everyone is going to be there." 
This is not the first time the Sample clan has attended one of Jeremy's game. They Jeremy often make the short Sample trip to Notre Dame Stadium. Yet, this game has meaning unlike any other. They are no longer watching Jeremy Sample-special teams standout, but the starter at inside line­backer. Here's where Sample's eyes get even bigger. 
"It has always been a dream of mine to be in a position to start," Sample said. "I feel like I've worked hard and now all the work is finally paying off. I guess you could say I'm living my dream." 
That dream seemed far from reality during the senior's first three years in South Bend. He was always considered an over-achiever, a hard worker who was tailored made for special teams-not a starting inside linebacker. 


But after starter Pete Bereich fell to injury in the first half of last year's Purdue game, Sample was thrown into the spotlight. He responded with a stun­ning performance which included two tackles for losses. His play was inconsis­tent the following week at Stanford, but the foundation had been laid. 
"I think that game showed me that I could play, that I could be a good line­backer at this level," Sample said. "And I think that game gave me incentive to work harder for this year." 
It has always been about work for Sample. He stands a hair under 5-foot 11 and weighs in at 223 pounds. But despite his size, he beat out more athlet­ic linebackers Lyron Cobbins and Kinnon Tatum in the spring and held them off during fall camp. 
see SAMPLE I page 20 

of note...

HOLTZ PLAYS WAITING GAME Notre Dame's coach says he'll wait and see on 
Look for Volleyball season previewthe status of Ron Powlus for Saturday. 

. ' 

...­
tn tomorrows paper . 
See page 20 











