-----------------~------------~---------------------­

Monday, January 17, 1994• Vol. XXVI No. 69 
PENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME A ' 
MLK Day focus of committee Supporters hope to give 
By LIZ FORAN 
momentum to holiday
News Writer 
"Sharing King's 
By ROBERT ANTHONY center Jed by Mrs. King. Philosophies" is the main goal WATTS "Considering that it's been less of the Martin Luther King, Jr. than 10 years since the holiday
Associated Press 
Federal Holiday Commission, began. I think we're reasonably according to member Roland pleased with the progress but
ATLANTA 
Smith. hope things can continue to
This ninth annual holidaySmith, the executive assistant honoring the Rev. Martin improve." A spot check of a several cor­
to University President Father Luther King Jr. still finds sup­
Edward Malloy, is also the porters of the observance porations found that General 
chair of the committee on col­struggling to win credibility for Motors and Atlanta-based lege and university involvement King Day. Coca-Cola observe the holiday in the celebration of Martin All 50 states are observing while IBM. AT&T, and Turne; Luther King Day. Broadcasting System allow
the holiday Monday. But most workers to take the day off as a
The purpose of this newly companies do not give workers formed committee is to survey the day off. Supporters say part personal holiday. colleges and universities across of the reason is the holiday is "Just as we think Columbus
the nation to determine the perceived as a day for blacks. 
extent of their involvement in "That's a perception we need Day is an important day and King commemorative activities. to change," said Alan Minton Abraham Lincoln is an impor­Th~ committee has recently tant day, so is Martin Luther
director of the Martin Luthe; 
mailed surveys questioning King Day," said Burke Stinson,
King Federal Commission in 
pT'anned activities and level of Atlanta. which was created to a spokesman for AT&T. "Our involvement to more than 1200 encourage observance of the employees seem to appreciate colleges and universities across day. "There's no need for the the option of picking and choos­the nation. The results of these federal government. the state ing what holiday of a religious surveys should be in by Feb. 4. government and corporations nature or civic nature they may 
so chose."
The committee was formed to give off a day if it just
partially in response to recent belongs to just one group." Stinson estimated that 10 incidents of racial unrest on "The white community has percent of AT&T's workforceThese activities are usually lim­members such as Secretary ofcollege and university cam­not embraced the holiday as takes King Day off.
ited to a small percentage of Interior Bruce Babbitt, a 1960 
puses. "King Day came after all
much as they possibly could.
the campus population," he graduate of Notre Dame,
The main focus of the t:om­these other days and how many 
but they certainly are embrac­said. Senator Bob Dole of Kansas
mittee :s to increase the level of ing it more and more," he said. days do you add before you
"We instead wish to foster and members of the King fam­
understanding of not just the deduct from vacation and sick 
campus wide observance ac­ily. It is chaired by Coretta Scott 
person Martin Luther King, Jr., A survey in 1990 found that days?" asked Jon Goodman,
tively embracing King's philoso­King, the widow of the civil
which is important, but rather only 18 percent of Fortune 500 director of the Entrepreneur
phies and to include more of right's leader. 
his philosophies of love and companies observed King Day. Program at the University of
the campus population, includ­The members of the commit­
non-violence, said Smith. Southern California School of
That number is s~owly increas­
ing students and faculty," tee chaired by Smith are not
The committee also wants to Business Administration and an
ing, Minton said. 
according to Smith. complete, according to Smith,
maximize campus participation "Every year we do see some expert on business practices. 
The Martin Luther King, Jr. but by the time survey results
in the day's activities, including progress in the observance of "If you look at the 18 percent
Federal Holiday Commission come in the committee will ex­
a greater realization of the im­that do give the Martin Luther
the holiday," said Greg Moses. 
was newly created by Congress pand to include representatives
portance of this holiday. King Day off, you will find there
a spokesman for the Martin
to increase awareness across such as college and university
"Many schools hold one day is another holiday they are not
Luther King Jr. Center for
the nation about King's life and presidents from across the na­
only ceremonies or they might Nonviolent Social Change, the getting off." 
philosophies. tion. 

Clinton praises Syrian efforts to work with Israel 

By BARRY SCHWEID breakthrough agreement; in­Associated Press creasing pressure on Syria to be more forthcoming. GENEVA Israel wants Syria to agree to 
After marathon talks with an exchange of embassies, free President Clinton, Syrian trade and open borders. It has President Hafez Assad on hinted it would give up the land Sunday offered Israel "normal. in won in the 1967 war, ending peaceful relations" in exchange cross-border attacks, in return. for land, and called on leaders "Syria seeks a just and com­of the Jewish state to respond prehensive peace with Israel as to the challenge. a strategic choice that secures Clinton promptly hailed the Arab rights, ends the Israeli overture and said Assad had occupation and enables our decided to "take the risks" nec­peoples in the region to live in essary for peace. He dispatched peace, security and dignity," 
senior aides to Jerusalem to Assad said, speaking in Arabic. confer with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. "In honor we fought, in honor 
"Critical issues remain to be we negotiate, and in honor we resolved, especially the ques­shall make peace." tion of relating withdrawal to At the news conference. peace and security." Clinton Assad declined to say whether cautioned. He spoke at a joint Israel's demands would be met. n~ws confer~nce after meeting He said that hinged o.n· the 
with the Synan president dur­negotiations and declined to be ing the final stop of an eventful more specific. eigh_t-day European journey. ' Later Sunday, Clinton told re­
Mideast peace negotiations porters aboard Air Force One are due to resume in that he and Assad had dis­Washington on Jan. 24. They cussed the question of whether have been in suspension since a there might need to be U.S. deadlock developed in peaceke'eping troops sent to the September over Syria's demand Golan. that Israel surrender the Golan "He said that there needed to Heights-won in the 1967 Six­be mutual security guarantees Day War -and Israel's but Israel's security was not all The Observer/Brett Moraskl demand for a specific peace that was at stake, that Braving the cold offer. Since then, though, Israel Damascus was closer to the 
C~vanaugh r~sident. senior Adam Ward bundles up to beat the cold weather on campus This Cape
and the Palestine Liberation Golan than Tel Aviv or 
Elizabeth, Mame natiVe looks prepared for the bitter cold temperatures. · 
Organization have reached a Jerusalem," Clinton said. 




INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Privilege of the Past: Senior Housing 
It's been termed an-------­"independent living en­vironment for seniors." 
Augusta Hall is a place where seniors are afforded the independence of off­campus living, but still have the luxuries on-cam­pus living including not having to worry about ·"""" • paying the rent or utility Jennifer Habrych bills on time and ev-Saint Mary's Editor erything is within a short walking distance. 
There are no worries about financial aid or scholarships being cut as is the practice when Saint Mary's students move off campus. 
It is the only way to live off campus while still living on campus for students at Saint Mary's. 
The hope of being able to be one of the less than 70 students to live in Augusta has kept many a senior on-campus over the years. 
But, in the next few months juniors will cross their fingers and hope to be among the select few to occupy the hall for the last time. 
The Sisters of the Holy Cross have announced that the lease will not be offered for renewal when the lease runs out in 1995 in order to accommodate the growing number of Sisters returning to retire at Saint Mary's. 
Instead, the College will buy Regina Hall from the sisters and the hope of living in a hall desig­nated for seniors-only will cease. 
The rumors have been around for a few years, but when the rumor became a reality, freshmen and sophomores across campus let out groans of how unfair it was that they wouldn't even have a chance to live in senior­only housing. 
With the exodus of students that flee the cam­pus each year for the freedom and inde­pendence that off-campus living offers, Augusta has offered a viable alternative for seniors for over 20 years. 
Armed with their own keys to the building, students living in Augusta have the most on­campus independence of all Saint Mary's stu­dents. 
As 21 and 22-year olds, the honor code in Augusta makes students feel that they are trust­ed as adults. The floors that are quite, except on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights are attuned to the senior-style of living. 
But, when the hall closes its doors to students at the end of 1994-95, the College must have an alternative waiting for those seniors that have traditionally remained on campus to live in Augusta. 
It is difficult to imagine that any other existing hall on campus could provide the same benefits that Augusta has provided to students, but the College must begin planning now. 
When ads for reserving spaces in the apart­ment complexes start appearing next year, the College must be able to present a viable plan o alternatives for seniors. 
Whether it be sections or floors reserved for seniors only, the building of a new senior hous­ing facility or a more creative solution that comes out discussion between the administra­tion and students, the College must not ignore the complaint of many juniors and seniors who say that they need more independence and freedom than the current housing situation allows them. 
For a College that places a high level of im­portance on students remaining in the resi­dential community, a clear, thoughtful and vi­able plan is the only solution to keeping stu­dents on-campus and happy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Production  
Corinne Doran  Whimey Sheets  
Laura Ferguson  Kathie Young  
Sports  Accent  
Beth Regan  Nora Buckley  
Viewpoint  Matt Carbone  
Jason Thomas  Tanya Krywaruczenko  
Lab Tech  Graphics  
Dave Hungeling  Brendan Regan  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Harding insists she's innocent 

PORTLAND 
Figure skater Tonya Harding took the offensive Sunday in her fight to save her Olympic berth, insisting that she had nothing to do with the attack on rival Nancy Kerrigan and expressing anger that anyone in her camp might have. Harding's lawyer and her coach called their first news conference since Kerrigan was clubbed on the knee Jan. 6 after practice for the U.S. Figure Skating Championships in Detroit. "Tonya Harding categorically denies all accusations and media speculation that she was involved in any way with the Kerrigan assault," said a statement read by her lawyer Dennis Rawlinson. "Tonya is shocked and angry that anyone close to her might be involved." Harding's bodyguard, Shawn Eckardt, and two other men have been charged with con­spiracy to assault Kerrigan. The injury forced Kerrigan to withdraw from the competition, but she was named to the U.S. Winter Olympics team anyway. Harding won the championship and was named to the Olympic team, but 
U.S. skating authorities are considering removing her. 

National parks seeking Carter memorabilia 
PLAINS, Ga. 
Wanted: anything with Jimmy Carter's name or face on it. The National Park Service is looking for photographs, letters, newspaper arti­cles, scrapbooks, campaign parapher­nalia or similar memorabilia for a museum being set up at the Jimmy Carter National Historic Site. "We are talking about anything pertaining to someone becoming president from a 


small, southern rural community," said park ranger Lloyd Hoffman. The museum will be in a restored Plains High School, which the former president and his wife, Rosalynn, both attended. The request for Carter items was made last week. Other exhibits at the museum will trace the history of Plains, which was established in the 1880s. 
Forbes announces best places to find work 

NEW YORK 
Is the recession really over? The answer depends on where you live. Southern and Rocky Mountain states show the best prospects for job growth, while the Northeast and California are among the worst, according to a survey by Forbes magazine. In its Jan. 31 issue, Forbes said the states with the best job outlook were Arizona, Nevada, North Carolina, Oregon, Texas and Utah. The worst were California, New York, Massachusetts, Rhode Island. Connecticut, Pennsylvania and Hawaii. Forbes said it compiled the rankings by analyzing relative costs of doing business, including state and local taxes, and energy and labor costs. 
Contest winner named newest Globetrotter 
PEORIA 
At least you know he's not in it for the money. Don Calhoun got a chance to make the Harlem Globetrotters touring basketball team on the basis of one credential: he won $1 million by hitting a 75-foot shot at a Chicago Bulls game promotion last April. ''I'm doing something I enjoy," Calhoun said last week from Los Angeles as the Globetrotters prepared for a January tour of Midwest states. ''I'm having a great time, bringing happiness to people." Calhoun's life has changed dramatically since "the shot." On April 14, he walked into Chicago Stadium in his yellow high-top sneakers and was offered a chance to win $1 million -$50,000 a year for 20 years -by sinking a shot from the opposite free-throw line. The sta­dium erupted when the basketball swished through the net. 
INDIANA Weather 
Monday, Jan. 17 
Accu·Weather*forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Va Associated Press GrapllCsNef C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather~ forecast for noon, Monday, Jan. 17. 
30s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
~ ....__._ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Couch potato nirvana 

As computers, fiber-optic cables and satellites link up into a worldwide "information superhighway; one of the most highly touted new services is called video-on-demand. Consumers will be able to order up a vast array of TV programming. Some examples: 
The requests: 
Cable box sends request via local cable TV wires to nearby high school, where a computer stores the game and sends it back. 
Cable box sends request via fiber-optic cable system owned by a long distance telephone company to the TV network, where a computer stores the program and sends it back. 

Cheer in luxury collections from Versace 
PARIS 
Christian Lacroix sent in a message of "luxe, and more of it," in a beautiful show Sunday of summer haute cou­ture that was a crowd-pleaser if not exactly a ground­breaker. Times may be depressing, but seeing all this lacy-beaded-colorful stuff is cheering-even if one could never afford evening outfit prices of $30,000 and up. Lacroix turned out his usual fun, flippy details, with ruch­ing here and there, a puffy petticoat, and gold buttons marching up and down. The pretty clothes aren't charg­ing into the next millenium. But Lacroix believes in cou­ture as an art. "In these violent and desperate times, the only salvation lies in sincerity and a total loyalty towards one's passions," Lacroix announced in his program. "Couture is my passion." In spite of the usual Lacroix exuberance and mixing of colors, fabrics and details, most the clothes looked more wearable than some of his other offerings. 
"Give mea documentary on the
3 history of Hungary in the 20th century up until World War II." 

Cable box sends request via fiber-optic cable to a ... 
U.S university Clearing house for documentaries. Computer then~ searches adirectory, finds a program located at a university In Budapest. 
U.S. computer requests documentary from Budapest via satellite. Budapest, 
~p·~-~;~~~~ 

Pr9SSUre 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
H  L  Dallas  51  42  New York  15  3  
Atlanta  30  14  Denver  38  28  Palatine  6  15  
Baltimore  18  3  Los Angeles  71  48  Philadelphia  15  4  
Boston  7  ·4  Miami  73  45  Phoenix  70  44  
Chicago  7  16  Minneapolis  0  15  St. Louis  17  0  
Colombus  10  -8  New Orleans  61  40  San Francisco  69  45  





Monday, January 17, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 

Water tnain falls victitn to cold 
page 3 
The Obserwr/Brett Moraski 
Card games 
Sophomore Cavanaugh residents Pete Goyer and Jamey Sotis enjoy playing a hand of Euchre. 
GM, union reach an agreement to end strike 

By ROGER PETTERSON 
Associated Press 
Water mains and power lines snapped and people stayed in­doors across parts of the East on Sunday as temperatures fell to record lows as far south as the Carolinas. 
About a fourth of the resi­dents of Hallock in northwest­ern Minnesota trudged to neighbors' homes and the city hall for water Sunday after a water tower pipe froze and wa­ter mains broke following days of sub-zero temperatures. 
"We've left the city hall open so people can get water from the kitchen," said city clerk Hank Noel. 
The town of about 1,300 peo­ple 20 miles south of the Canadian border, where tem­peratures have been below zero for days, was waiting for crews to arrive in a day or two with equipment to thaw a pipe from an underground storage tank, Noel said. 
Temperatures hit record lows Sunday from the Great Lakes to the Carolinas, including 28 be­low zero ar Alpena, Mich.; 17 below at Syracuse, N.Y.; 18 below at Elkins, W.Va.; 1 below at Asheville, N.C.; and 6 above at Greenville-Spartanburg, S.C. 
Watertown, N.Y., chilled out at 43 below, matching lows Saturday in parts of northern Minnesota. A combination of a temperature of 20 below and 22 mph wind made it feel like 69 below Sunday at Greenville, Maine. 
The northern North Dakota town of Adams, population 250, also was without water after four water main breaks since Thursday. 
"We're melting snow," city auditor Linda Grove said. "Some people have stores of water ...People are driving out of town to get water at friends' and relatives' houses." 
Temperatures fell below zero as far south as Kentucky. In the town of West Point. about 1,325 customers were without water Sunday because the well that supplies the water treatment plant froze, said assistant fire chief Jeff Wright. 
Most of West Virginia fell be­low zero and Appalachian Power Co. had as many as 7,000 customers without ser­vice Sunday, said spokesman Jack Shaver. 
In eastern Kentucky, about 330 South Williamson residents lost gas heat early Sunday when a pipeline froze, said Ziad Shaheen of Columbia Gas Distribution Co. 
In nearby Belfry, Ky., a shel­ter for people without heat was set up at the courthouse, said fire department spokesman Mike Davis. 
"But you know how stubborn some people are," Davis said. "There are a few people here, some have electric heat and some are toughing it out." 
People crowded shelters else­where. Philadelphia's Ridge Avenue homeless shelter for men had "more than a full house" Saturday night, about 411 men compared with· the usual 250, said supervisor Aubrey Stone. 
Workers in the District of Columbia spent the weekend driving around the city di-s­tributing blankets and hot chocolate to homeless people who refused to go to shelters. 
Associated Press 
SHREVEPORT, La. 
Picket lines around a General Motors Corp. assembly plant came down Sunday after the automaker reached a agree­ment on a proposed contract for 2,300 striking workers. 
A vote on the contract was set for Monday afternoon, said Warren Danford, financial sec­retary for United Auto Workers Local 2166. Details of the con­tract were not released, but Danford said he expected it to be ratified. 
"Picket lines are down," 
Danford said. 
The agreement was reached after 40 hours of negotiations. The strike began Jan. 11. 
GM spokeswoman Linda Cook said workers could return Tuesday if the agreement is ratified. 
"The agreement is equitable for both GM and UAW," she said. 
The strike at the pickup truck assembly plant was the first at a GM factory since the au­tomaker signed a national agreement with the UAW in October. 
t 
Faculty Upper Room Series Dinner-Discussion 
"Faith and Professional Life" 
TUESDAY 25 January 1994 Faculty Dining Room of the South Dining Hall 
Dinner at 7:00p.m.-Discussion until9:00 p.m. 
Speaker Professor Naomi M. Meara Department of Psychology 
Reservations: Return the form receiw:d in the maz1 or simply call John Gerber, C.S.C. at 1-8601 or Sluzron Harwell at 1-8607. A donation of $5.00 11t the dour or by check made out to Campus Ministry can help defray tht expenses of the dinner. 

CN0PUS 
rv11NISTRY 
Uni'ler1ily. of Notre Oame Notre Dame, IN 46558 
lttuerr Concfus• 21,.239-8538 llcln Hal 2F9-'l31·52•2 ·F11cbtr Comrnuntt~ Ctnltr 21M39-8807 




Clans in Somalia's capital reach peace agreement 


The Hammes 

I 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
''On. 'Ihe Camp-u.s'' 
phone: 631-6316 
Our Mlx OfMusic Is Biger &Better Th Ever Before...Ch~k It Ou~
store hours: Mon-Sat: 9a.m.-5p.m. 


·------------------· 
i 2.00 OFF i 
: I COMPACI': I 
I I 
: DISC! : 
I I I NO UMm You Must Present Coupon for Sale Price I 
~------------------~ 
Key member quits Yeltsin's party 
By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY of schism within Yeltsin's massive subsidies for ailing Associated Press Cabinet, which has been split state factories and military between those favoring faster enterprises, and increased MOSCOW reforms and those wanting a spending on populist measures 
Yegor Gaidar, first deputy slower approach with an that Gaidar opposes. prime minister and architect of emphasis on social protections. Russia's market reforms, It was the second time Gaidar Gaidar said he rejected an announced Sunday he was has left the Cabinet. The first offer to keep the same position leaving President Yeltsin's gov­time he was forced out as act­in the new Cabinet, fearing he ernment because its recent ing premier in December 1992 would have no real say in eco­decisions threaten the course of under pressure from hard-lin­nomic matters. He said recent reforms. ers in Russia's old parliament. government decisions sacrificed 
Gaidar's abrupt step and the This time, however, he left reforms for the sake of short­looming departure of other after being undercut by his for­term political gains. reformers could shake interna­mer champion, Yeltsin. He particularly objected to tional confidence in Russia's Yeltsin is expected to reshuf­Yeltsin's budget-busting plan to economic transformation, fle his Cabinet this week, and build a $500 million new par­despite Yeltsin's pledge at last reformers are worried that the liament headquarters, which week's summit with President balance of power is shifting to "equals one-fifth of last year's Ointon to continue reforms. the go-slow forces. social spending," Gaidar said. 
Officials quickly offered Yeltsin and Chernomyrdin "I cannot serve in the govern­
assurances that Gaidar's resig­have been sending mixed sig­ment and at the same time be nation will not change the gov­nals on reforms since last in opposition to it," Gaidar said ernment's policy. month's parliamentary elec­in a letter to Yeltsin. "I cannot 
"The government has been, is tions, which were dominated by be responsible for reforms .. and shall remain a reformist Communists and extreme .without having the necessary one," said Valentin Sergeyev, a nationalists who capitalized on levers for consistent implemen­spokesman for Prime Minister widespread discontent with tation of an economic policy Viktor Chernomyrdin. government policies. which I am convinced is cor­
Still, anti-reform groups rect." cheered the departure of the Yeltsin and Chernomyrdin Gaidar told reporters he dis­37 -year-old economist. have said the government's cussed his departure with 
"Gaidar should have done it course had to be "corrected" to Yeltsin on Thursday. "There long ago," said Valentin soften the painful social effects was a calm conversation with Kuptsov, a high-ranking of reforms, associated with the president of Russia, and he Communist Party official. Gaidar's name. understood my position," he "After the elections it became Reacting to Gaidar's res­said. even clearer that he should ignation, U.S. Secretary of State Yeltsin spokesman resign, because his policy was Warr~n Christopher suggested Vyacheslav Kostikov voiced totally turned down by the vot­that December's elections had hope for a compromise. The ers." produced a "new sensitivity" Interfax news agency said 
toward the hardships faced by Yeltsin and Chernomyrdin are 
Despite his departure from ordinary Russians. likely to ask Gaidar to reconsid­the government, Gaidar will ''I'm not sure it's a bad thing er his decision on Monday. remain a major player on the that there are one or two Legislator and reform-minded political scene as head of the changes," he told NBC's "Meet economist Grigory Yavlinsky pro-reform Russia's Choice bloc the Press." said Gaidar's departure would in the State Duma, the lower Economically, an emphasis on have little effect because he lias house of parliament. social support would probably long been a figurehead with no 
His resignation ended months lead to higher inflation due to real power. 
By THOMAS WAGNER 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU 
In a hopeful sign, the clans of war-torn Mogadishu reached a peace agreement Sunday and promised to punish people who violate it under harsh Islamic laws. 
Gen. Mohamed Farrah Aidid and Ali Mahdi Mohamed, lead­ers of the political factions and militias that control the divided city, did not attend the confer­ence, or appear to send top aides. 
But it could put pressure on them because both belong to the clans that reached the rec­onciliation agreement under the leadership of an influential clan elder, Imam Mohammod Imam Omar. 
Aidid and Ali Mahdi's forces have fought many times along the cease-fire line separating northern and southern Mogadishu. And many people believe that Aidid -who re­cently escaped a harsh military crackdown and who wants all 
U.N. forces to leave the country -still hopes to take over Somalia and become its leader. 
The peace agreement also comes at a time when clan fac­tions reportedly are rearming and erecting defenses in prepa­ration for battle after the U.S. military finishes withdrawing by March 31. 
"I believe this meeting is fruitful because the people are fed up with war and they want peace," Omar told a news con­ference after the agreement was signed at a hotel in north­ern Mogadishu. 
"Ali Mahdi and Aidid are clansmen, so they must follow the agreements reached by their clans," he said, after the three-day conference ended with hundreds of clan elders and members cheering, chanti­ng and praying to Allah with their heads bowed. 
Neither Aidid or Ali Mahdi was immediately available for comment Sunday in a city where most people rush home as soon as the sun sets to avoid being robbed and shot by rov­ing bandits. 
Italian Ambassador Mario Scialoja, who briefly visited Omar during Sunday's closing session, spoke to reporters: "This could produce a break­through in the political process of this city in a few weeks if it remains popular among the clans ...That could happen even though Ali Mahdi and Aidid weren't here." 

Although the United Nations reportedly paid for the dele­gates' accommodations and se­curity at the hotel, its officials did not attend the meeting. If they had, Aidid probably would have immediately rejected the agreement. 
In December, peace talks in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, that in­volved Aidid, Ali Mahdi and other faction leaders collapsed, and Aidid blamed the break­down in part on U.N. interfer­ence. 

Monday,January 17, 1994 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Hussein warns of Iraqi reaction to sanctions 
Associated Press 
NICOSIA, Cyprus 
On the eve of the third an­niversary of the start of the Persian Gulf War. Saddam Hussein lashed out at the West Sunday and said he would retaliate for its aggres­sions. 
The Iraqi leader said in a nationally televised speech that he would not stand by in the face of continued international sanc­tions against his country. 
"Let these evil people, mas­ters and slaves alike, end their illusions and let them not mis­calculate again," he said, refer­ring to the West and Gulf Arab states who joined the allied fight against Iraq. 
He was not specific during the 80-minute-long speech, which was carried by Iraqi me­dia monitored in Cyprus. 
His remarks apparently sought to shore up his gov­ernment's image at home. Iraq is dogged by economic woes stemming from U.N. sanctions imposed after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in August 1990. 

Iraq has been seeking a lift­ing of the sanctions and has been making moves, such as opening seaways and inaugu­rating a new petrochemical plant on the main truck route north to Turkey, that would leave the country well-placed if and when the sanctions were lifted. 
Saddam has proclaimed a "moral victory" in the 1991 war, which ended Iraq's occu­pation of Kuwait, an oil-rich emirate it invaded in a dispute over oil, money and territory. 
He made similarly combative remarks last year when he called on Iraqis to "strike back" against the United States, which led the Western allies in war. 
At that anniversary, Saddam's comments came hours after the United States fired U.S. Cruise missiles against an alleged Iraqi nuclear weapons site and downed an Iraqi warplane. 
The last major U.S. attack on Iraq was June 27, when the 
United  States  fired  23  
Tomahawk  missiles  at  
Baghdad.  

killing at least eight people, in retaliation for an abortive plot by Iraq's intelligence services to assassinate former U.S. President George Bush in Kuwait in April. 
Lecture on Capital Punishment 
by Helen Prejean, C.S.J ., author of "Dead Man Walking, An Eyewitness Account Of The Death Penalty In The United States" Wednesday, January 19, 1994 12 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
Writ~r, lecturer and community organizer, Sister Helen Prejean was born in Baton Rouge; Louisiana, and has lived and worked there aU of her life. Halling appeared on ABC World News Tonighc, 60 Minutes, BBC World Service radio and an NBC special series on che death /Jenalcy, she is a knowledgeable leccurer on che subjecl of capical punishment. Many of her articles have appeared in publications including che San Francisco Chronicle, che St. Pecersburg Times, che Balcimore Sun and cheSt. Anchony Messenger. 
Sponsored by the Center for Civil and Human Rights. 

Parliament of Italy is dissolved 
By FRANCES D'EMILIO 
Associated Press 
ROME 
Scarred by scandal, parlia­ment was sent packing Sunday, clearing the way for elections that are expected to end a half­century of Christian Democrat dominance. 
A new parliament without the cloud of corruption also is likely to add momentum for drastic changes in Italy's politics and economy. 
But while the move was hailed as a milestone in Italian history. for some the new era was off on the wrong foot. Jewish leaders protested the Cabinet's decision to hold the elections on March 27, when Passover is celebrated. 
President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro dissolved the 21­month-old parliament, where more than one-quarter of the members are under investiga­tion on charges of corruption, Mafia ties or violation of party funding rules. 
To provide some stability while Italy goes through a tur­bulent period, the president re­jected the resignation of Premier Carlo Ciampi, who has served eight months as Italy's first politically independent premier in 52 postwar gov­ernments. 
Ciampi's offer on Thursday to resign set the machinery in motion to dissolve parliament. 
Tullia Zevi, head of Italy's Jewish community, expressed disappointment the voting was not postponed until after sun­down on March 28. About 20,000 of Italy's 48 million-plus eligible voters are Jews. 
"It was an important test be­cause Italy is a country 99 per­cent Catholic, with small mi­norities," Mrs. Zevi said on state TV. "The problem of mi­norities is dramatic all over Europe. A signal from a great Western country would have been important," she said, re­ferring to a surge in attacks on Jews and ethnic minorities in Europe. 
ANSA said Ciampi would ex­press his apologies during a visit to the home of Rome's chief rabbi. 
A Cabinet official, Antonio Meccanico, said the date was chosen because it was within the 70-day limit to hold elec­tions after the dissolving of par­liament. He said holding the elections a week earlier -Italy traditionally votes on Sunday ­would not give enough time to prepare ballots. 
"I suffered for not having been able to reconcile the needs of everyone," Ciampi told reporters. 

Palestinians ready for autonomy 
By KARIN LAUB 
Associated Press 
BUREIJ, Occupied Gaza Strip 
For Fayez Afana, who com­mands the Fatah Hawks en­forcers in this refugee camp, the shiny black 9mm pistol tucked under his green cam­ouflage jacket provides all the answers. 
"The killers will be killed," Afana, 24, told a dozen Hawks who sat in a drcle of blue plas­tic chairs in their hideout, a room in an unfinished building deep in the camp's maze of al­leyways. 
Afana had called the meeting to discuss what to do about two rival factions that shot it out over control of a weapons cache, killing two bystanders. 
The gunfight, and possible reprisal, is the sort of violence that will test Vasser Arafat's ability to establish authority in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank region of Jericho, where the PLO is to take over from the Israeli army. 
With self-rule perhaps only months away, Palestinian fac-




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
1994-95 EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and possess solid management, puolic relations and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to David Kinney by 5 p.m. Wednesday, january 19, 1994. For additional information about the position or the application process, contact Kinney at 631-4542 or siop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune Student Center. 
tions have been hoarding weapons to prepare for a pos­sible power struggle. 
Worried civilians are buying their own arms on the black market or digging up caches left behind when Israel drove Egyptian troops and Palestinian fighters out of Gaza in the 1967 Middle East war. 
"There is no family that doesn't have a weapon," said Monir Mabhor, 28, a supporter of Arafat's Fatah faction in 
Bureij,  where  23,000  
Palestinians  live.  "Nobody  
knows  what  will  happen.  

Nobody knows what will be the nature of Palestinian security." 
In the Sheik Radwan district of Gaza City, a group of 16 neighbors met with a reporter over coffee. Six said they had weapons at home. One, a low­level Fatah oflicial, said he had bought a 9mm pistol after three Fatah leaders were killed this winter, apparently by rivals. 
Israelis say only a few hun­dred automatic rifles, pistols and hand grenades are in the hands of organized Islamic and PLO groups. But Palestinians 
have tens of thousands old 
firearms retrieved from battle­
fields, some dating to the rule 
of Ottoman Turks in World War 
I. 

Most of the modern weapons 
were bought from the Israeli 
underworld or stolen from 
Israeli homes or cars. Others 
were smuggled across the 
Egyptian border by Bedouins or 
came in fishing boats. Some 
even crossed the border via 
tunnels dug between Gaza and 
Egypt. 
Demand has increased 
sharply since Sept. 13, when 
Israel and the Palestine 
Liberation Organization signed 
the accord on Palestinian au­
tonomy. 
As a result, prices have been _driven up, in some cases more 
than fivefold. A 9mm pistol that 
sold for $390 last fall now costs 
$2,000, said a dealer who sup­
plies the Fatah faction in the 
West Bank city of Nablus. 
One Fatah cell came to him 
recently with $40,000 to spend, 
said the dealer, a 29-year-old 
Palestinian who spoke on con­
dition of anonymity. 
Happy 21st Birthday Steve! 

Love, 
We Love Mom, Dad, 
Amy, Sally 
You 
&Pat 



SAH J1 1\/\A.'--Y ', ( ·, •II f•-I 

sent the state's 92 chairmen letters, asking for their predic­tions and preferences in the gubernatorial campaign. Forty­five responded. HappyTheir own preferences aside, the Indianapolis Star reported 21stSunday that 36 percent of the respondents said they expected Early to win, 18 percent said Indianapolis Mayor Stephen -Katie!Goldsmith, seven percent said Marilyn Quayle and four per­cent said state Senate President We love you!Pro Tempore Hobert Garton. . Gov. Evan Bayh is not eligible Mom, Dad, to run for a third term. Johnny, Jimmy,But when the 45 were asked who they wanted to win the Pat & Tommy party's nomination, Early was  
Cam.pus Bible Study SECOND SEMESTER: CBS: 102 :01* WILL MEET TUESDAY NIGHTS AT 7:00PM FIRST CLASS TUESDAY, JANUARY 18,1994 IN CAMPUS MINISTRY CONFERENCE ROOM IN BADIN HALL REQUIRED TEXT: HOLY BIBLE OPEN ENROLLMENT; NO PRE-REQUISITE·-: ALL STUDENTS WELCOMED DIRECTOR: FR. AL D'ALONZO, CSC * THIS IS AN INTERFAITH BIBLE STUDY COURSE, NO CREDITS AWARDED HERE/ BUT GREAT REWARDS HEREAFTER  

Salinas offers amnesty, begins talks with rebels 
By ANITA SNOW 
Associated Press 

SAN CRISTOBAL DE LAS 
CASAS, Mexico 

President Carlos Salinas de 
Gortari stepped up pressure 
Sunday on rebels in southern 
Mexico, unveiling a promised 
amnesty but only for those who 
stop fighting immediately. 
It was the president's latest move to end the rebellion that started New Year's Day in Chiapas, the country's poorest state. Earlier, the president of­fered a unilateral cease-fire in the region. 
A government-appointed mediator sent by Salinas to Chiapas said Sunday "real ne­gotiations" had begun with the guerrillas. And workers con­tinued to dig Sunday in a mass grave found near Ocosingo, a town that saw some of the fiercest fighting. 
In his address, Salinas said the amnesty covers all partici­pants in violence from Jan. 1 through Sunday. "Any criminal action against the people or against the Mexican army after this period will not have the benefit of amnesty," the presi­dent said. 
An estimated 1,000 to 2,000 Zapatista fighters -including many Indians -seized San Cristobal and several outlying towns in Chiapas on New Year's Day to highlight the plight of the poor in Chiapas. 
The government says 107 people died in the fighting, which died down in early January after a military assault led by 14,000 troops forced the rebels back into the mountains and jungles of Chiapas. 
Church officials say the death toll is far higher, possibly in the hundreds. 
In San Cristobal de las Casas. the government-appointed mediator, Manuel Camacho Solis, said he had exchanged messages with the rebel Zapatista National Liberation Army. 
"We have begun real -~_e_gotiations through messages 
...i!ijijiii!iiiiiii
-'~'--­
t\ORffiU CtMTtR 
fO~ iHL <tl ~ I S Sunday, Jan. 23,7:30 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Saint Mary's students S6; SM's-ND communities $8 
Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in 0Laughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.­5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard and Discover orders by phone at 219/284-4626. 

being sent by both sides," Camacho Solis said, declining to elaborate. "We hope the messages increase." 
He said the president's amnesty unveiled Sunday cov­ers not only rebels, but also the military and "everyone" in­volved in the Chiapas conflict. 
After maintaining a public si­lence for several days, rebels were quoted Sunday in the newspaper La Jornada as say­ing they were abiding by the cease-fire, but would fight back if attacked by the army. 
One guerrilla, who identified himself only as Maj. Mario, said the rebels had numerous de­mands for ending the misery of the 3.2 million, mostly indige­nous people in Chiapas. 
"We are not going to stop the war until we have a satisfacto­ry response," the rebel said. 
The guerrillas began their rebellion the day the North American Free Trade Agreement between Mexico, Canada and the United States took effect. 
They said the pact sounded a "death knell" for Indian peas­ants and other poor in this country of 84 million who re­main untouched by Salinas' free-market reforms. Indian farmers depend largely on corn and coffee crops, whose prices are expected to drop due to duty-free U.S. imports. 
In other developments, gov­ernment Investigators contin­ued digging at a mass grave in Ocosingo Sunday, a day after exhuming six bodies. At least three more corpses could be seen below. 
Human rights activists and some church officials accused the army of human rights abus­es in its efforts to quell the unrest. 
A Canadian team returning from Chiapas state announced Saturday it had recorded testi­monies of disappearances, summary executions and other human rights abuses by the army. 
The Defense Department called the charges unfounded and inflammatory. 

The Observer • NEWS Monday, January 17, 1994 
The Observer/Brett Moraski 

Pool sharks 
Escaping the cold, Flanner residents freshmen Rob Grabowski and Rich Glatz and sophomore Sean Bractey headed for Gorch pool hall in LaFortune for a game of pool. 


Early has support for nomination 
Republican chairman leads pack ofHoosiers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
An informal poll shows that former state Republican chair­man Rex Early has support to be the 1996 gubernatorial nom­inee, but either Dan or Marilyn Quayle could change that, a newspaper reported. 
Edward Feigenbaum, pub­lisher of the weekly Indiana Legislative Insight newsletter, 
favored by 31 percent, followed by former Vice President Dan Quayle, 16 percent; and Marilyn Quayle, 11 percent. Goldsmith, Garton and former Indianapolis Mayor William Hudnut each were favored by seven· percent -three votes each. 
The survey results could help Early if he does decide to run, Marion County chairman John Sweezy said. 

"I run into a lot of people who refer to 1996 and a lot still say, 'Do you really think he's going to do it?' They still don't see him in that role," Sweezy said. 
But Early's standings could be changed by the Quayles, Sweezy and Hudnut said. 
"Either Quayle would knock everyone else out of the box immediately if they decided to go for it," Hudnut said. 
.. 

Monday, January 17, 1994 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Casino companies set sites on Michigan City 
Associated Press 
MICHIGAN CITY 
Circus Circus, Hilton and Caesar's World already have made their mark in Las Vegas, now they are setting their sites on the Midwest. 
The three already jointly own and run a casino in Windsor, Ontario, which is just across the river from Detroit. They pitched a combination gam­bling casino and theme park in Chicago last year, but state lawmakers turned it down. 
With riverboat casinos on the horizon in Indiana, the three companies are making plans to get a piece of the action. Circus Circus had cut an exclusive deal with officials in Portage, but Porter County voters reject­ed riverboat gambling in a November referendum. 
Voters in nearby LaPorte County approved the casinos, so Circus Circus teamed up with Caesar's and Hilton's, who are trying for a license in Michigan City. 
Circus Circus already oper­ates casinos in Las Vegas. Laughlin, Nev., and Reno .. Nev.; Caesar's World hosts major boxing matches at its Las Vegas casino and also operates a casino in Atlantic City, N.J., and five resorts in the Poconos. Hilton Hotels Corp. runs two riverboat casinos in Kansas City, Mo. 
Casino America and resort developer Hemmeter Organization also are seeking a Michigan City license, but the three-firm consortium could be an attractive suitor because of its resources, experience and existing commitment to the region near Detroit. 
The legislation that approved riverboat casinos called for Gary to get the first two river­boat licenses on Lake Michigan, while cities in Lake, Porter and LaPorte counties were to com­pete for the third license. 
Gary officials have said they will ask the Indiana Gaming Commission to award the city a third license, but Michigan City, which sits on the state line, also is an attractive market. 






TV trial: A service or a spectacle? 
By ANNE GEARAN 
Associated Press 
MANASSAS 
Americans watched in 1991 as the titillating details of the William Kennedy Smith rape trial unfolded on their televi­sion screens, and again a year later when Anita Hill accused then"Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas of sexual ha­rassment. 
Now another real-life sex spectacle is emerging on televi­sion in the persons of John and Lorena Bobbitt. And many Americans are riveted again. 
CNN, which is carrying most of the trial live, reported more viewers for Mrs. Bobbitt's first day of testimony Wednesday than for any other news story in at least two years, reporter John Holliman said. 
"And when we cut away, peo­ple call up mad," he said. Court TV also is televising the proceedings live. 
About 200 journalists are amassed for the trial. about four times the number who turned out for John Bobbitt's trial for marital sexual assault in November. 

Is all the coverage just pan­dering to Americans' prurient interests, or, as many reporters say, does the trial of the woman who cut ofT her husband's penis raise valuable legal and moral questions? 
"I think it is news," said au­thor Gay Talese, who is cover­ing the trial for The New Yorker. "People think news is only what happens when gov­ernment officials or newswor­thy people get together. but that is not the case." 

Like the earlier televised events, the Bobbitt trial in­volves social issues as well as shocking sexual tidbits. 
The Smith trial brought the issue of date rape to the fore­front, the Clarence Thomas hearings forced people to think about sexual harassment on the job. The Bobbitt case centers on domestic violence. 
And it's all on TV, without the filter of a reporter's pen. 
"I personally think this is healthy thing," said Linda Hunt, a former CNN reporter now teaching journalism at Penn State University. "There is a large segment of the popu­lation out there that is becom­ing very suspicious about jour­nalists. This is a way around them." 

Clinton cooperating with probe 
By IAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A Republican congressman pressed again Sunday for con­gressional hearings into President Clinton's ties to a failed S&L, calling the Arkansas venture a small issue but one of public trust. 
BEETHOVEN'S 2ND(PG): 1:00.3:00.5:15. 7:15.9:15 GRUMPY OLD MEN(PG13) 1:15.4:15. 6:45.9:00 IRON Wlll(PG)12:15. 2:30.5:00, 7:36, 9;45 PHILADELPHIA(PG13): 1:30,4:45, 7:15. 9:45 THE PEUCAN BRIEF(PG13): 12:30,4:00, 7:00, 10:00 TOMBSTONE(R): 2:45.5:15.7:45, 10:15 
MRS. DOUBTARE(PG13) 4:15,7:15,9:45 THE AIR UP THERE (PG) 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 WAYNE'S WORLD II(PG 13) 5:00,7:30. 10:00 
The administration, mean­while, stressed that Clinton is cooperating fully with a probe, and a Senate Democrat accused the GOP of rehashing the issue for partisan gain even after Clinton agreed that a special counsel should investigate. 

"All the information has been turned over, every scrap of it. A special counsel (is being) ap­pointed. What do you want?" Vice President AI Gore asked Sunday on ABC's "This Week with David Brinkley." 
But Rep. Jim Leach, R-Iowa, 
Attorney General Janet Reno the ranking Republican on the is expected soon to announce House Banking Committee, re­the name of a counsel to inves­peated his call for bipartisan tigate the ties between Clinton, congressional hearings. saying first lady Hillary Rodham the special counsel would look Clinton and James McDougal, into illegal activities while owner of the Madison Guaranty Congress needed to air an issue Savings and Loan that failed in of "public trust." 1989 at a cost to taxpayers of "This isn't the largest issue. $4 7 million. It's somewhere between much 
McDougal and the Clintons ado about nothing and some­also co-owned the Whitewater thing might be a little rotten in Development Corp., an part of the Ozarks," he told Arkansas real estate venture. CBS' "Face the Nation. Investigators are trying to de­"There are possible breaches termine whether Madison S&L of law, but more importantly funds were illegally diverted to there's a public ethic here Whitewater or to help Clinton that's at issue." 

repay a $50,000 loan for his 1984 gubernatorial campaign. 
Clinton denies any wrongdo­ing, saying he lost $68,900 in the Whitewater venture. 
McDougal's attorney, Sam Heuer, agreed Sunday. "I would suspect if there were some secrets, we would have known them long before now," he said. "Jim McDougal was a savings and loan executive, which is akin to being a com­munist in the McCarthy era." 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, January 17, 1994 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chi<f 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Ediror ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Phoro Ediror ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Sainr Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Conrroller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­
tion of eiilier institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­
rorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. 
Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those: 
of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Unes 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
I remember walking into the house after school one day, and the volume on the television was up real loud. My parents were glued to the television screen as a news reporter re­peated over and over "Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., the civil rights leader, has been as­sassinated." I was in the eighth grade then and was taught nothing about King in school, but my parents would talk about him around the dinner table in ways that made me understand that he wasn't just another "sick people's doctor". He was the kind of doctor that tried to heal the hearts and minds of a sick society. 
At age 13 I didn't know that King died proving to the world that I was just as valuable to God as those who told me I wasn't. And little did I know that 26 years later, the memo­ries of his death would sadden me even more as I pause to re­alize that things really haven't changed much. In fact, if any­thing, things have gotten worse. 
People of Mrican descent are God's gift to the world. Although it's obvious that some non-Blacks have not under­stood nor believed this truth, Black folks have no excuse. If one knows anything about the history of humankind and its origins, it is clear that God's recreation of God-self began on Mrican soil. For me, this con­cept alone places me in a posi­tion of power -the kind of power that teaches me how to think, act, love, and live. 
King taught me the realities of the effects of my God-given gifts on humankind. His unwa­vering stand on racism, preju­dice, and societal injustice con-
DOONESBURY 
fronted the oppressor, and un­locked the shackles of fear and subordination of the oppressed. His fearless decision to air America's dirty laundry to the world was the key to King's success, and his ability to rally whites and blacks in support of his movement exposed his in­herent wisdom and leadership. His undaunted charisma stirred the hearts of many peo­ple, and changes were made. He knew what he had, and he wasn't afraid to use it. 
But what has happened since then? Each year, America stops to commemorate the life of King, reflecting on the impact he had on the world during his lifetime. The "Eyes on the .Prize" marathon is shown on PBS, little children are re­quired to memorize and recite King's "I Have A Dream" speech at the annual Martin Luther King Day at school, and Stevie Wonder's "Happy Birthday" song is played on hundreds of radio· stations throughout the country. 
On Jan. 17, African Americans at Notre Dame will stand ready to jump on the civil rights bandwagon, speaking loudly in classes and in the din­ing halls about what we still don't have because white folks won't let us have it. And every year. I stop and examine my 

1.fiiE. ARE NOT ~G OFF 0\JR. CI...AlM OF INNOCENCE! 
. 
ng whether 1, too. stand poised and ready to fight the racial battle on issues that never seem to go away because I won't let them. 
We have got to stop waiting for white folks to give us per­mission to recognize our God­selves. We must cease giving white America approval to mold our characters into ones that accept apathy, segrega­tion, and forced subordination as an African American way of life. 
As African American students at Notre Dame, we will leave here with degrees stating that we have been trained in an ed­ucational system that is among the best in the country. We will be able to walk through doors that ordinarily would be clused to us were it not for such a prestigious degree. And this is not mere conjecture -ask any African American alumni around the country and you are certain to hear success sto­ries that began after the com­pletion of four years of racism and struggle at Notre Dame. 
Whether they admit to it or not, they made it, and their lives have been enhanced be­cause they used their God­given gifts to weather the storm. Graduating from Notre Dame means we survived a 
. . . \ . 
0.. . 

I' ... •. ,. .· '4· . ~~ 
~ I ,·:..-: .'. ;:·f~•1... ~. ··£'.: :·-: Cy~\. ~~ 
I • 1• r I\·~1fr;.,· , -'¥j .:-4-~ ~ 
I , , • . . [.·~. . . 
I • • ,,1 . "' • • • • • • . I




·• 'I•·. '• 
//f ··"' 

_.. • /'-. :.'II ,• '•,; ·• '' 
I~ ·)iJ<::J

:. r\. ~-~i ~(\~ 1;'. / ·: · ·~ ··: '"~'TE~I'fb .-,. J ~
;. 

c,_e . ...., 'f':" .f l;#it1».~~-"
r

·&;-n .....,~~\\ .• 

ose in life 
sy we work in for the rest of our lives, and surviving this system means that as a people. we beat the odds and didn't perish in the process. But has our suc­cess impeded our ability to fo­cus on what our responsibili­ties are away from the Golden Dome? Have we become part of the problem as to why things have gotten worse for African Americans in America? 
Maybe things have not gotten better because on the one hand, we don't want white folks to forget what they've done to us as a people (and rightly so). but on t.he other hand, the more we look at their insecurities, the less we focus on what we need to do for our­selves. I believe that obtaining an education means exploring the minds of others who have gone before me, and emerging with an understanding of myself that will guide the deci­sions that will shape the rest of my life. 
Education means looking at the world around me and de­termining my place in its func­tioning. As Mrican Americans, our world is hurting. Our world is comprised of people who struggle each day to find God in the midst of the madness. We have a responsibility to go to those who need our help. We must join established organiza­tions committed to the well be­ing of our people. We must be­gin organizations that directly address the needs of our peo­ple, particularly the needs of our men, youth, and children. 
Martin Luther King's birth­day means a lot to me. It makes me face the realities of my purpose in life. I don't want to be another educated Mrican American with a diploma which states that I did my time, but in the process, I forgot who Grandma was. We must not be afraid to look back and re­member the neighborhoods we came from -the relatives and friends who watched us grow up, go away to school. and waited anxiously for our return. 
It is imperative that we at­tempt to curtail the violent repercussions affecting our neighborhoods resulting from centuries of degradation and social injustice. As African Americans, we can no longer expect others to embrace our concerns. We must regain con­trol of our destinies. If we don't do it, it won't get done. 
Twenty-six years ago, a man was killed to prove that I was worth dying for. On this day I pause to thank God for my an­cestor, brother, Martin Luther King, Jr., who showed me my divinity. Those of us who will one day be in positions of power must, too, commit our­selves to reigniting the memo­ries of our people. We are kings and queens of the human race. Let's claim our rightful positions and assist God in the recreation of the world. . 
CHANDRA JOHNSON 
Sophomore 
Fischer Graduate Residences 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
W&'!<ff. 8ACK, 1<105, 
IWD IT'S T/M/5 FOF. 
(){j MARV&WUS TOUN8URaN HIM9UF... 1 

AT FIRST, I THOU6HTGOING PU£3/../C WOUW E3E UNS£3&M/..Y, ALMOSTGtRAtm85QU£3. 8/.JT UPON R&Ft&CTION, I /Jf:3Ciflfll YOU HAV£'A !<16HT TO KNOW 
THATI'M... I'M...UM... 
YOU'Re 
UJHAF 
UJHAT 
AL-J<&ADY? 
\ 

"one forgives to the degree that one loves." 
La Rochefoucauld 

ACC~NT 
Monday, January 17, 1994 page 9 
Balin :Jlmerican learn1fly 
ND's new foreign study program in Chile 
By KAREN SHOPOFF Accent Writer 
For any Notre Dame student looking for an exciting yet very different semester-long foreign study program, Santiago, Chile may be the academic and cul­tural experience for you. 
Seven Notre Dame students participated in the program this past semester. 
Marce McNeill, a junior at Notre Dame and one of the seven participants, described the program in Santiago as "an amazing experience." 
McNeill, who has also been to Spain and Mexico, chose to en­roll in the NO Chile program Dame students taking the same for Social Concerns, and was because she felt that "studying classes as the Chilean students. developed by Father Don in South America was the op­Kselman said that the inte­McNeill, director of Latin portunity of a lifetime." grated classes, not offered in American studies at Notre 
With the help of Claudia most of the other foreign study Dame. 
Kselman, assistant director of programs, were a distinct Marce McNeill participated in international studies programs advantage of the Chile pro­the Poverty and Development at Notre Dame, McNeill applied gram. seminar during her stay in and was accepted into the Chile Another advantage of the pro­Chile. "I got so much out of it. the students. "There is a desert Unless the participation in the program last spring. gram is that "all courses at the It's given me a whole different in the north and lakes and glac­Santiago program increases 
One of the most appealing university are open to [Notre point of view," she said. iers in the south," McNeill said. dramatically, Notre Dame will features of the program was Dame students]," according to "The Chilean people are very Santiago is also located with­"continue piggybacking on the the opportunity to live with a Kselman. happy people. It's really neat to in an hour and a half of ski programs established by the Chilean family, according to The integrated classes were a be around them," said McNeill. slopes and beaches. other universities." according to Kselman and McNeill. welcome challenge to McNeill. Although McNeill enjoyed the Despite the cultural and phys­Kselman. 
McNeill felt that she learned a "The classes are as hard as you seminar. she said that "it was ical differences between the Applications for next fall are lot more about Chilean culture want to make them." said hard to adjust and realize that I United States and Chile, McNeill due in the Office of living with a Chilean family McNeill. couldn't really change their realized that "we're very simi­International Studies by Jan. than she would otherwise have Perhaps the most unique lives. but my life was very lar people." 27. learned. facet of the semester in Chile is changed by it," McNeill said. She enjoyed the experience, In order to be eligible for the 
Learning outside the class­the opportunity for Notre Dame Last fall, four of the seven and thought that it let her see Chile program, students must room is an essential part of the students to participate in a Notre Dame students partici­and learn a lot about Chile. "I have a 2.5 grade point average. Chile program, according to seminar entitled, "Poverty and pated in the seminar. Every would really like to go back The requirements for Spanish Kselman. Development." Friday, the four students would sometime," she said. include at least two years of 
Once McNeill arrived in The exploratory course is like get together and talk about McNeill and several other college level Spanish or the Santiago, she found the people an "extended urban plunge in a their experiences. Notre Dame students who par­equivalent. as well as a B in the very accommodating and foreign country," according to Their discussions were sup­ticipated in the Chile program language, according to warm. "I already miss my (host) Kselman. plemented with readings in last fall will be holding a ques­Kselman. family a lot," she said. Going into an economically Spanish pertaining to social is­tion-and-answer program this 
McNeill's host father was es­poor section of Santiago sues. The seminar and discus­Thurs.. Jan. 20 at 7 p.m. in the The study abroad program in pecially welcoming to an ex­allowed the Notre Dame stu­sion "adds so much more to the basement of Fisher Hall. Santiago, Chile can add a new change student. "He knew ev­dents to experience poverty program." according to McNeill. The foreign study program in dimension to the Notre Dame erything about NO," she said. first hand. Other advantages of the Chile Santiago is a joint venture with experience. "It's the best thing I 
All courses are taken at the The seminar is offered program are the cultural and the Universities of Wisconsin could have done at Notre Catholic University, with Notre through Notre Dame's Center travel opportunities available to and Michigan. Dame," said McNeill. 
Career and Placement helps students find the way 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
interviewing program. The bulk of the Accent Wrirer interviewing begins around the end of January, according to Reynolds. 
It's that time of year again when "Career and Placement has helped me seniors begin interviewing for jobs and to get a job and their services have been prepare to enter the professional world. really good for me," said senior Kevin Your parents are breathing down your Buttler, a government and CAPP major. neck, you have no clue what you want to Career and Placement serves as an do with the rest of your life and 1ou've excellent way for students to get their got to find a job in a weak economy. foot in the door. "It helped me a lot. I 
Who do you turn to? Career and wouldn't have really known where to get Placement Services. started," said senior Beth Rhode, an 
Located in the basement of the accounting and CAPP major. Hesburgh Library, Career and "Career and Placement has a pretty Placement Services is an on-campus defined and efficient program for office that helps to bring employers and accounting majors," Rhode added. "I prospective students together. sent them my resume and employers 
Each year approximately one thou­contacted me to set up interviews." 
sand seniors register their resumes with "The job market is improving, but Career and Placement, according to companies are being cautious because Paul Reynolds, associate director of the they do not want to over hire," Reynolds 
office. said. 
David Hungellng
"Career and Placement Services is also "Still, students with technical back­
geared toward underclassmen seeking Junior Accounting major Man Kramer receives information about summer internships from grounds like engineering and computers internships, summer employment and Katie Wesolowski of Career and Placement Services. are doing well in their job search." advice concerning future career oppor­The Career Library contains books dents, especially sophomores and A summer Job Fair will take place 
tunities," Reynolds said. and reference guides to steer students in juniors," he added. Jan. 20, from 1 to 5 p.m. in the 
Students from all majors and all class the right direction. "As for undergraduates, we cannot Monogram Room of the J.A.C.C. to give levels may seek assistance from this "For those students undecided in emphasize enough the importance of students ideas for a worthwhile summer office through _professional staff mem­careers, interviews 1;1nd resumes, the relevant summerjobs and internships to experience. bers and group workshops that guide Career Library offers tips for getting into aid them in future employment," he Career and Placement Services is open students through interviewing tech­the job force," Reynolds explained. said. Monday through Friday from 1 to 5 p.m. niques, resumes and other employment The office "offers resources and refer-The most prominent service offered by in the Hesburgh Library. Students can strategies. ences that are a lot of assistance to stu-Career and Placement is the on-campus contact the office at 631-5200. 


A ology
SPORTS BRIEFS 

In the final SPORTS EXTRA section prior to Christmas break, The Observer made negative remarks about several members of the Notre Dame Hockey Team. These comments were in no way true and The Observer apologizes to the team and coach Ric Shafer. 

"That's two years in a row Anaheim's goaltending lately "It just seems like we haven't 
Babych earned his SOOth NHL I've had a drought like that, They are 13-for-115 at the has mirrored Vancouver's been consistent in goal at assist on Linden's 24th goal, and it was pretty disappoint­Pacific Coliseum, the second­Jeckyl-and-Hyde power play. home," said Wilson, an assis­which came before the rink was ing," he said. "I got six shots worst home mark in the league. tant coach with the Canucks completely lit. tonight, and that's how I have After surrendering 13 goals during the previous three sea­
The Anaheim Arena is always to play to score. I like playing "We seem to relax more on during their recent six-game sons. "There's a soft goal in pitch black during the National on the boards during the power the power play when we're on road trip and fashining a 2.13 every game, it appears. Cer­Anthem,Courtnall, a 30-goal play, because it gives me more the road," Courtnall said. "At goals-against average in their tainly, our goaltending on the scorer in five of his previous six time to set up." home, we play a little tight and last 17 away games, the Ducks road has been impeccable. But seasons, ended a personal 11-As efficient as Vancouver's try to do too much. But tonight, surrendered 18 goals in their we have to have big saves in game drought with his fifth and power play is away from home, we stuck to the plan more and just-concluded four-game every game." 
Laroche and Cherjazova took; World Cup at Alamo Classic 
Associated Press "It's my first win of the sea­Olympic hopes dashed. unbeatable most of last season tion for the weekend, based on 
son," Laroche said. "It feels She ruptured an Achilles ten­as she won the aerials gold results in aerials, ballet and 
BRECKENRIDGE, Colo. good to be back on top. My level don during aerials training medal at the World Champi­moguls, while Natalia Orekhova 
Philippe Laroche of Canada of conditioning and competition Sunday and is through for the onships and swept to the World of Russia captured the women's registered his first World Cup is good, and I hope I can keep it season. Cup title with six wins, collected combined. aerials victory of the season that way until February at the She was a contender for a her first victory in three com­The World Cup freestyle tour Sunday while reigning women's Olympics." third spot on the team. petitions. moves to Lake Placid, N.Y., by champion Lina Cherjazova of Langlois was competing in Kris Feddersen of Steamboat She had 178.92 points with week's end, with the Subaru Uzbekistan got back on the win­only his second World Cup Springs, Colo., making contin­Colette Brand of Switzerland Freestyle International ex­ning track. event this winter. ued progress in his recovery second at 167.71. panded to include an aerials 
LaRoche compiled 243.03 "It was good to be back on from hip and kidney injuries, The top U.S. result came from event next Sunday that had points to 231.56 for Canadian the podium," he said. "I've had led the U.S. skiers with his best Nikki Stone of Westborough, been postponed from Pi­teammate Lloyd Langlois on the a slow start -you lose confi­result of the season. Mass., who was sixth, with ancavallo, Italy, before Christ­final day of the Alamo Freestyle dence. This helped me regain He was sixth and Eric Kriste Porter of Greenland, mas. Classic. Switzerland's Sonny my confidence." Bergoust of Missoula, Mont., N.H., eighth. The U.S. Olympic freestyle Schoenbachler finished a dis­Stacey Blumer of finished lOth. Darcy Downs of Canada won team will be announced next tant third with 218.30 Southington, Conn., had her Cherjazova, who had seemed the men's combined competi-Monday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 

Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  CRUISE SHIPS HIRING­ TICKETS  KENMORE FRIDGE 2.5  Thank you Garth Brooks for making my dreams come  SOPHOMORES!!!  
Earn up to $2000+/mo. on  cubic ft.  Active warranty.  true ... see you soon back­ JPW escape is Feb. 18-20  
USED TEXTBOOKS  Cruise Ships or Land-Tour  AAAAAAA A AAAAAJciltAA AA:AAAJul A AA AAJcA A  634-4902  stage. love, Kevin Janicki  but tix go on sale starting  
Pandora's Bks ND ave &  companies. World travel.  Jan. 17.  Sales are from 3-5  
Howard  ' 233-2342 /1 0-6  Summer & Full-Time  HEY KRUSTY, GOOD TO  on M & W and from 6-8 on  
M-Sat 9-3 Sun  employment available. No  386/20 IBM Compatible with  SEE YOU AGAIN!  Tu and Th.  
ILOST & FOUND I  exp necessary. For info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584  NEED 2 TIX FOR GARTH BROOKS ON SAT, FEB 12.  SVGA Color monitor, 24-Pin Color Printer, 2400 Baud  HEY, LOVECHILD -WEL­ Only $50 gets hotel, trans.  
Modem, 80MB Hard Drive,  COME TO LAFORTUNE!  and ticket to Phantom or  
LOST: Grey metal double  CAMP THUNDERBIRD  Dual Floppies, Math  2nd City.  
cross earring between 2nd  Camp Counselors Needed  CALLX4020.  Coprocessor. Great Buy at  SUMMER JOBS -ALL  First-come first-served.  
floor PW and North Dining  Resident Summer Camp  $1100 or  best offer.  Call  LAND/WATER SPORTS.  Supplies are limited.  
Hall on 1/14. Call Bridget at 4-2965 if you found it.  for Developmentally Disabled  ......................"*"**""**""'"*"***"'"...... ""*  634-4732 for details or leave message.  PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK  
Children & Adults.  MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE  
FOUND: Set of keys with red State Farm  June 18-Aug 26  FORSALE  II .  PERSONAL  I .  PLACID CALL 1-800-786­8373  Welcome Back BARB KELEHER,ERIN WIG,  
symbol.  Found next to  Orlando, FL area  '----------....J  Florida's New Spring Break  Spring Break Bahamas  JASON WILLIAMS,STAN  
Univ. Village.  Ph.# 631­ 1-407-889-8088  hotspots! Cocoa Beach &  Party Cruise! 6 Days $279!  FLIPSBERRY, JOHN CON­ 
5748  IMMACULATE 3 BDRM  Key West! More upscale  Trip Includes Cruise &  NORTON, AMY WALKER.  
CAPECOD 4 BLOCKS  than Panama City/Daytona!  Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free  KRISTY SPREITZER, HEN­ 
PROMOTE our SPRING­ FROM CAMPUS. BULLA  Great beaches & nightlife! 8  Parties! Hurry! This will sell  RIETTA DOBBLEGAINER,  
WANTED  BREAK packages with our  RD.$64,500.272-6306  days in 27 acre Cocoa  out!  PERRY WINTERFESTER,  
posters and flyers, or  Beachfront Resort $159!  1-800-678-6386  KILLIAN RED, L.LBEAN,  
SIGNUP NOW for spring­ Key West $249! 1-800-678­ and J. CREW. Wishing you  
$.700/wk. canneries;  break rooms. Daytona,  SPECIALIZED ROCKHOP­ 6386  the best for a happy semes­ 
$4500/mo. deckhands.  •  Panama, Padre, Cancun,  PER, 18',  Spring Break! Cancun &  ter, the happy group lead­ 
Alaska summer fisheries  etc. $129 up. Call CMI 1­ SCOTT AT-4 HANDLE· ·  Student Activities is hiring  Jamaica! Fly out of Chicago  ers.  
now hiring. Employment  800-423-5264  BARS,  office assistants-to apply,  and spend 8 days on'·the  
Alaska 1-206-323-2672  NEW SHIMANO DX  stop by 315 LaFortune by  beach! We have the best  
Help! I need a ride to  FOR RENT  HEADSET AND PEDALS, NEW SHI­ Monday, Jan. 17.  trips & prices! Includes air & hotel & parties from $399!  * * * * * * * * * * * * *  
Cleveland, Ohio (or all the  MANO  Mature graduate student  1-800-678-6386  * * * * *  
way to Erie, Pa. if you are  NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM  CARTRIDGE BOTTOM  would  St Edward's Hall  
going that far) the weekend  $225. MO. & ROOMS AT  BRACKET  like to do occasional  Players  
of Jan. 28. Very friendly, $$  $190. MO. AVAIL. NOW.  AND HYPERGLIDE  babysitting.  Spring Break! Panama City!  
for gas, tolls, etc.  Call Brian  272-6306  CHAIN,  Phone Angela 634-3227.  8 days oceanview room  Presents:  BRIGHTON  
x3043  399.99, CALL BILL 684­ with kitchen $119! Walk to  BEACH  
5911.  SOPHOMORES!!!!  best bars! Includes free dis­ MEMOIRS  
SUMMER OR FALL  count card -save $50 on  by Niel Simon  
Minnesota Co-Ed summer  "94".LARGE 6 BDRM  SPRING BREAK  Form turn-in for Sophomore  cover charges! 1-800-678­ Jan 20, 21, 22  
camp seeks qualified indi­ HOME 2 BATHS. 1, 2, & 3  CANCUN  Sibs Weekend is Jan. 31 in  6386  @8:00  
viduals to work as cabin  BDRM HOMES. ALL  the Sorin Room from 3-6:30  
counselors who can also  HOMES WALK TO CAM­ Best pkg  p.m.  Is anyone headed to  Tickets available  
instruct in various activities.  PUS.272-6306  around. College Tours  Indianapolis  at Lafortune Box Office  
Interviewers will be on cam­ econ.&lux. trips Can find  Don't miss out on the  on Friday, the 21st?  I need  price: $4  
pus February 4th.  extras  opportunity to share Notre  a ride!  * * * * * * * * * * * * *  
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  if needed -call reps 4  Dame with your sib.  Call Bridget at 2609!  * * * * *  
To apply, contact: Camp  SECURITY SYSTEM  fliers &  
Foley, 160 Windsor Court,  ALL APPUANCES  prices X232-7109  All monies, forms, etc.  
New Brighton, MN 55112;  1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS  should be turned in at that  JAKE PETERS gets better  
612-633-4881.  232 2595  time.  lookin every day!  


Monday, January 17, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
Cleveland Cavalier's stomp 76ers by 67 Swimming ._­
By CHUCK MELVIN 
Associated Press 
RICHFIELD, Ohio 

The Philadelphia 76ers didn't bother searching for a bright side. Their worst offensive per­formance in three decades was little more than a night to for­get. 
"It's over. It's past. There's nothing positive from it," Philadelphia's Dana Barros said after the Cleveland Cavaliers routed the 76ers 110-67 Saturday night in a game that set team records on both sides. 
The 67 points were the fewest the Sixers have scored in a game since the franchise moved from Syracuse in 1963, and the fewest ever yielded by 
Cowboys take on 49ers for NFC championship 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 

The defending Super Bowl champion Dallas Cowboys are back in the NFC championship game against the San Francisco 49ers again. But they aren't flawless. 
The Cowboys earned the NFC championship rematch with a hard-earned 27-17 victory Sunday over the wild card long­shot Green Bay Packers. 
Dallas won despite two inter­ceptions, a lost fumble, and un­timely penalties in the ragged 
A'TI'ENTION GRADUATE STUDENTS INTELLECTUAL LIFE COMMITTEE of the GRADUATE STUDENT TJNION presents 
~~DOING RESEARCH IN RN ELECTRONIC ENUIRONMENT.. Monday, Jan. 17-7 PM Room 120 -DeBartolo 
& 

..THE NEW INSTRUCTOR•s GUIDE TO THE LIBRARY" Thursday, Jan. 20 -8~15 PM Room 120-DeBartolo 
DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH ORLANDO/WALT DISNEY WORLD 
f----C•O•L•O•R•A•D•0----1 
STEAMBOAT VAIUBEAVER CREEK BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
f------N•E•V•A•D•A----1 
LAS VEGAS 

S•O•U•T•H 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW CAll TOll FREE FOR FUll DETAILS AND COLOR BROCHURE! 
1•BOD •SUNCHASE 
Cleveland. They also marked a season low in the NBA, below the 71 scored by Chicago against Miami and by Boston against Indi<~;na. 
Scores in the 60s were com­mon before the 24-second clock was established, but they're extremely rare in today's NBA. The lowest total in an NBA 
game  last  year  was  69  by  
Washington  at  Houston  in  
March.  

Until Saturday, Cleveland had never surrendered fewer than 74 points in a game. But the trapping, rotating defense in­stalled by new coach Mike Fratello -with mixed results earlier in the season -seems to be taking hold. 
The Cavs have won three 
divisional playoff• game before 64,790 fans. 
The Cowboys will play the 49ers at 3 p.m. Sunday in Texas Stadium. San Francisco advanced to the NFC champi­onship game with a 44-3 vic­tory on Saturday over the New York Giants. 
Troy Aikman threw three touchdown passes but suffered two interceptions and Emmitt Smith was sidelined most of the second half when he hurt his separated right shoulder trying to block. 
Smith, who wore special shoulder pads to protect the injury, rushed_ 13 times for 60 
o\'to·s au,"' 
%e 'Biggest o/a[ue ~rtli oftlie 'Border 
0~ 
~~~t~ 
"\ ~\) 
<J \'J. 
AT THE CORNER OF NOTRE DAME AVE. AND SOUTH BEND AVE. JUST BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS OR YOUR ABODE 
50¢ OFF 
4/c)"~ 'J s 
Any Submarine Sandwich 't\t-sJi:t Bandito Burrito or Pancho's Nachos 
straight and nine of their last 13 games. 
"We're communicating real well on defense," Brad Daugh­erty said. "Everybody's talking. Nobody's afraid to rotate. When you do that, it makes you so much better. Sometimes, you want to be a little hesitant, but we're not being hesitant at all." 
Even so, there was more at work Saturday night than good defense. Philadelphia limped into town with three players missing and the other nine worn out from an overtime win against Indiana the night be­fore. Moses Malone and Johnny Dawkins were sidelined by injuries, and Eric Leckner had the flu. 
Given the circumstances, Six-
yards and caught 2 passes for 27 yards before he reinjured the shoulder trying to block Tony Bennett. 
The Cowboys struck for 10 points in 18 seconds at the end of the first half for a 17-3 lead to discourage the stubborn two­touchdown underdog Packers. The point bonanza all started after Eddie Murray kicked a 41­yard field goal with 23 seconds left. 
Kenny Gant's tackle knocked the ball away from Green Bay returner Corey Harris on the ensuing kickoff and Joe Fish­back of the Cowboys recovered ers coach Fred Carter wanted to slow the pace as much as possible, aiming for a low-scor­ing game that would let his tired team stay close. 
For one quarter, it worked. Clarence Weatherspoon scored 15 of his 18 points in the first period, helping the Sixers build leads as big as eight points, and they led 22-19 after one. 
But a 15-0 Cleveland surge early in the second quarter, highlighted by Gerald Wilkins' 3-pointer, took the energy out of the Sixers. They managed just eight points in the period ­another defensive record for Cleveland -and never recov­ered. 
after a wild scramble on the Green Bay 14. Two plays later, Aikman hit Jay Novacek wide open in the end zone from six yards away with five seconds left. 
Aikman, who completed 28 of 37 passes for 302 yards, hit Michael Irvin with a 19-yard scoring pass as Dallas built a 24-3 lead in the third period. 
Although Brett Favre, who had three interceptions, threw a 13-yard touchdown pass to Robert Brooks and a 29-yard TD to Sterling Sharpe, he couldn't muster a miracle rally. Interceptions by Charles Haley and Darren Woodson in the second half negated any true comeback thoughts. Favre com­pleted 28 of 45 passes' for a Packer playoff record 331 

CHICAGO TANS gives you the BEST TAN FOR YOUR MONEY! 
BUY4 I BUYS I BUY 6 
GET 4 T GE.I5 T_G_ET 6 FREE! 
Get The Idea? 
~ OUeago HairCDUing (A'
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA Next to Venture Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
277-7946 

HOURS: Daily 9 to 8 Sat. 9 to 6 Sun. I 1-5 
conrinued from page 13 
"It will take another week or week and a half before we are fully recovered from training camp, but at this point we are ahead of where I had expect­ed." Janson said. "We are looking ahead to the champi­onships and if things continue this way, I think a few of our swimmers will qualify for the NCAAs." 
"Coming off of training like we did and having a meet like we did, everyone did really well," Kelleher said. "This meet was just a glimpse of how well we will be doing in the rest of the season." 
B-ball 
continued from page 16 
thing else go wrong for Keith Kurowski? 
The sophomore guard missed all of last season with a stress fracture in his foot and sat out the first five games this season after knee surgery. 
He limped off the court Saturday, favoring the knee, but the injury wasn't thought to be serious. 
"I got hit and came down on 
it wrong," he said. "It's a little 
sore. but I'm okay." 
NOTRE DAME (63): M. Williams 4-11 4-6 14, Cozen 2­4 2-3 8, Joe Ross 2-2 0-0 5, Hoover 8-17 2-2 24, Boyer 0-2 0-0 2, Jon Ross 0-1 0-0 0, White 0-0 0-0 0, Kurowski 2-5 0-0 5, Miller 0-1 0-0 0, J. Williams 0-1 1-2 1, Justice 1-1 0-1 2, Taylor 0-1 1-2 1, Gotsch 0-0 0-0 0, Keaney 0-0 0-0 0, Ryan 0-0 0-0 0, Hughes 2-3 0-2 4. TOTALS: 21-49 10-18 63. 
DUQUESNE (75}: Whitehead 5-12 1-3 11, Alston 8-16 9-13 25, Lopes 1-2 0-0 2. Pipkins 4­15 3-6 11, Hunter 5-9 1-1 13, Tarle 0-0 0-0 0, Smith 3-5 0-0 6, Seay 0-1 0-0 0, Marshall 0-0 4-4 4, Powers 1-1 1-2 3, Walker 0-0 0-0 0, Bridges 0-0 0-0 0. TOTALS: 27-61 19-29 75. 
Halftime: Duquesne 32, Notre Dame 25. 3-point goals: Notre Dame 11-22 (Cozen 2-2, M. Williams 2-4, Hoover 6-12. Kurowski 1-3, Miller 0-1), Duquesne 2-14 (Whitehead 0­1, Pipkins 0-6, Hunter 2-6, Seay 0-1). Total fouls (fouled out): Notre Dame 24 (Hughes). Duquesne 15 (none). Rebounding: Notre Dame 33 (M. Williams10), Duquesne 35 (Whitehead 7, Powers 7). Assists: Notre Dame 16 (Justice 4), Duquesne 10 (Whitehead 4). Turnovers: Notre Dame 22 (Hoover 5), Duquesne 10 (Whitehead 4). Attendance: 

.... 
--· 

The Chiefs remain one away froin the big game 
Harding denies assault accusations 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

Joe Montana has the Kansas City Chiefs a game away from the Super Bowl, the place he was hired to take them. 
He did it Sunday, with a lot of help from his defense. 
Montana had three second­half touchdown passes, two of them 54 seconds apart in. the fourth quarter to lead the Chiefs to a 28-20 win over the Houston Oilers. That sends Kansas City to Buffalo for next Sunday's AFC title game, the first time the Chiefs have ad­vanced that far in 24 years. 
But as much credit goes to the defense that put Montana in position for the two TDs that gave them a 21-13 lead -an 11-yard pass to J.J. Birden and an 18-yarder to Willie Davis, who had dropped a sure TD in the first half. 
The Chiefs sacked Warren Moon nine times while Dan Saleaumua and Joe Phillips shut down Gary Brown, holding the backup who gained 1,002 yards in eight regular-season games to just 17 yards in 11 carries. 
The Oilers, who had an 11­game winning streak broken, haven't been to a title game in 14 years and haven't gotten past this stage in seven straight 
Montana comes through when it counts once again 
By JIM LITKE 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

Find out exactly what it is coursing through Joe Mon­tana's veins and maybe we'll finally get an answer to how he does it. Whatever it is can't be blood. Nobody human can be that cool. 
How many comebacks is that now? How many lost causes found at the last minute? How many leaking ships steered safely into harbor? How many opposing coaches, defensive coordinators, young-gun rivals and even teammates who ex­pected to make their reputation by knocking Montana on his 
., 
playoffs -an NFL high. For a while on Sunday. it looked like they might. 
They scored the first two times they had the ball, on a 49-yard field goal by AI Del Greco and Brown's 2-yard run. They led 10-0 at halftime and 13-7 after a 43-yard Del Greco field goal with 9:37 left. 
But Montana, who was 22 of 38 for 299 yards and three TDs, completed a 20-yarder to Keith Cash, who had a 7 -yard TD catch in the third quarter that cut the deficit to 10-7. 
Then came a 38-yard gain when Cris Dishman was called for pass interference, pulling down Davis at the 11. And on the next play, Montana found Birden for the score. 
On the first play after the kickoff, Derrick Thomas hit Moon and stripped him of the ball, and Saleaumua recovered at the 12. On third down from the 12, Montana found Davis, who caught the ball between two defenders for the score with 7:44 left. 
The Oilers then drove 80 yards in nine plays. Moon, who was 32 of 43 for 306 yards, hit Ernest Givins on a 7-yard TD with 3:35 left in the game. 
But Montana brought the Chiefs right back with the help of a 41-yard third-down com­pletion that was tipped by Houston's William Fuller and caught by Cash. 
can are out of work? 

Whatever the total, add one more to each column. On Sun­day, Montana was back in the playoffs, but this time as a 37­year-old Kansas City Chief. Af­ter all that history with all those great San Francisco teams, after all the surgically repaired parts and the down time, who really believed he had this much left? 
Buddy Ryan did. 

"He doesn't run like he used to," the Oilers' defensive coor­dinator said, "but neither do I. 
"We got some pretty good licks on him and he kept get­ting up just like he always does. So," Ryan added, "he looks like the same guy to me." 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
IA«nr;ore.1 Press 

PORTLAND, Ore. 
Tonya Harding "categorically denies all accusations" that she was involved in the assault on Nancy Kerrigan, the lawyer for the U.S. figure skating cham­pion said Sunday. 
Asked if Harding might quit the Olympic team even if she is not linked to the alleged plot to injure Kerrigan, her coach, Di­ane Rawlinson, said Harding "wants to represent her coun­try in the Olympics" in Norway next month. 
"Tonya is innocent," Rawlin­son said. "She won nationals. She trained hard and she de­serves to go." 
The U.S. Olympic Committee met Sunday in Durham. N.C.. to discuss the Kerrigan attack but took no action against Harding. It did, however. again indicate it could remove Harding from the Olympic team even if she is not linked to the alleged plot. 
The statement by USOC pres­ident LeRoy T. Walker said the committee has an Olympic obligation to send a team to next month's Games in Lille­hammer, Norway, that meets the highest standards of "sportsmanship and fair play." 
The 350-word statement that never mentions Harding by name said, "foremost in our minds this morning is our con­cern for Nancy." 
Harding's camp indicated it would fight for her right to compete for the United States at the Winter Games. 
"The U.S. team will be the strongest with Nancy and Tonya on the team," Rawlinson said. 
Harding's lawyer gave the stongest denial yet of specula­tion that Harding knew of the alleged plot or was involved in any way. 
"Tonya Harding categorically denies all accusations and me­dia speculation that she was in­volved in any way in the as­sault," according to a state­ment read by Dennis Rawlin­son, Harding's lawyer and her coach's husband. 
"Tonya is shocked and angry that anyone close to her might be involved," the statement said. 
In response to a question, Di­ane Rawlinson was less sup­portive of Jeff Gillooly, the man Harding divorced in August but still lives with. 
''I'd like to believe that Jeff is innocent," Harding's coach said. "I don't know Jeff as well as I know Tonya." But she did said that "Tonya absolutely be­lieves Jeff is innocent. 
"If she discovers anything dif­ferent from that she will dis­tance herself from him," the coach said. 
Kerrigan, the bronze medal winner at the 1992 Winter Games, was knocked out of the 
U.S. Figure Skating Champi­onship in Detroit when a man smashed her on the right knee with a collapsible baton as she left the ice following practice Jan. 6. 
Harding won the competition to qualify for the Olympic team and Kerrigan was placed on the two-person squad by figure skating officials instead of 13­year-old Michelle Kwan, the runnerup in the nationals. 
"It was a shallow victory," Diane Rawlinson said. "It was almost like no victory. I think there were two victims, Nancy first ... and Tony a." 
"Tonya is very sorry. sorry for Nancy, sorry for all of us," said Rawlinson, who said Harding had sent a letter to Kerrigan. 
Eva Scotvold, Kerrigan's coach, said she wasn't aware ol Kerrigan receiving a letter. 
Kerrigan was not available for comment, but a statement said she held an unscheduled training session at 2 a.m. Sun­day. 
"My knee was a little stiff and it took some time to get loos­ened up," Kerrigan said in the statement. "But it felt good to be on the ice again." 
Harding's bodyguard, Shawn Eckardt, 26, and Derrick Brian Smith, 29, were arraigned Fri­day on charges of conspiring to commit assault. Shane Minoaka Stant, 22, who is Smith's nephew. also was charged with conspiracy to commit assault and is expected to be extradited to Portland. Eckardt was re­leased on bail Friday and Smith on Saturday. 
There have been several re­ports that Harding was aware of the alleged plot to injure Kerrigan long before the at­tack. Two of the three men ar­rested in the case reportedly have told authorities that Hard­ing knew of the plans. 
And Gillooly was among four people for whom warrants had been requested by Detroit po­lice, The Detroit News reported in Sunday editions. The other 
three  have  already  been  
charged  in  Portland  and  
Phoenix.  

Welcome Back Everyone! 
Come Check Us Out-No Experience Necessary! 
I 

Learn How To Ride Western Or English /----./ \_ Just For Fun, Or Compete If You Wish / ~ 1st Meeting Of Semester: 7:30 p.mE.,qJaUnle7S tJ~l·a }/1 /,_--J
Room 222 Hesburgh Library ,. ~ 
ND/SMCclub R~;.~~\~~~~~R l 
Team Is Currently 2nd In The Region! 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLocKS FRoM NoTRE DAME CAMPus 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FoR 


'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 


SPRING BREAK '94 
:~~~k•r•n ~~~;g~~~~ :,. 
0

._...;;-­
IS! COREY Fg~ ~o;~ ~~ ~~:~~~~~~~~~~\ouR 
-1-800-875-4525 
TOURS PARTIES EVER NITE!! OPEN BAR 10:30 PM-3:00AM 
Monday, January 17, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
-
Olympic torch lit for winter games 
By PATRICK QUINN 
Associated Press Wrjrer 
OLYMPIA. Greece 

The Olympic flame that will burn at next month's Winter Games was lit at this ancient site Sunday and began an odyssey through European towns and cities before reach­ing Lillehammer, Norway. 
Maria Pambouki, a Greek ac­tress playing the role of high priestess, held a silver torch close to a concave mirror on an altar to Hera, an ancient Greek goddess worshiped in Olympia during the original Games held from 776 B.C. to the year 394. 
"Apollo god of the sun bring down your rays and light this holy flame," she chanted as the torch ignited amid the pine­covered ruins. 
Hundreds of tourists and resi­dents of this small farming community watched the 30­minute ceremony. 
Pambouki, holding an olive branch in the other hand and escorted by 20 women clad in similar ankle-length off-white robes, then carried the flame to a monument dedicated to Pierre de Coubertin. The Frenchman was instrumental in helping to revive the modern Olympic Games at Athens in 1896. 
She handed the torch to a member of the Greek Olympic Committee, who in turn let Gerhard Heiberg, president of the Lillehammer organizing committee, use a wick to light a small flame in a specially de­signed kerosene lamp. 
The flame will travel to Ger­many and several Scandinavian cities before arriving in Norway to start the Games Feb. 12. 
The tradition of lighting an Olympic flame here began in 1936 for the Berlin Games. 
A Greek-Norwegian contro· versy over the flame had threatened to mar the Lille­hammer Games after the Nor­wegians lit their own last month. 
The Norwegians ignited a flame by rubbing two sticks to­gether at the home of Sandre Nordheim, a famous 19th cen­tury skier. 
The Norwegians had planned to "merge" the flame and use a third torch to light the cauldron at the Games. Greek officials protested, saying that the Olympic flame could not be adulterated. 
The dispute ended last week after Greek and Norwegian of­ficials agreed that the flames would only "meet" and jointly light the cauldron. 
"We are satisfied with the so­lution," Audun Tron, the mayor of Lillehammer, said "It's important to keep these tradi­tions of the Olympic spirit." 
CATHOLIC EDUCATION 
The heart o[the matter 
Sr. Lourdes Sheehan, R.s.M. 
U.S. Catholic Conference Secretary ofEducation 
Wed., January 19 7:00p.m. Hesburgh Uenter Auditorium 
All are welcome Reception to follow 
SMC divers excelled despite loss to Calvin 
By MARY GOOD 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Two weeks of intense training paid off for the Saint Mary's swim team Saturday when they faced Calvin College. 
Although the Belles were defeated 175-118. the meet still marked success for the team. 
"I was pleased with how the team performed as a whole," coach Greg Janson said. "Half the team performed how I had expected, a couple of swimmers had ofT days, but as a whole we exceeded what I had expected at this point. Basically we were just beaten by a better team." 
Major  contributors  to  
Saturday's  meet  were  the  
divers, Janson commented.  

"The divers helped keep us in the hunt for most of the meet," he said. 
Diving particularly well was junior Barb Krantz. Krantz placed first on the one meter board and second on the three meter spring board. 
Also key in the mee"t was freshman Shannon Kelleher. Kelleher won the 1000 meter 

Cancun Mexico ~nxn$439 Negrll Jamaica ~nxn$449 Montego Bay Jamaica rrom$419 Daytona Beach, FL rrom$149 Panama City Beach, FL fnxn $129 
On-campus contact: 
Mike @634-4451 Angie @634-4659 Michoel @634-1121 
freestyle taking ten seconds off her own school record with a time of 11:09.39. Ten minutes later she placed second in the 200 meter butterfly. Saturday was her first time swimming the event. Thirty minutes later she came from behind to place first in the 500 meter freestyle with a time of 5:27.85, just missing her own school record. This was the sixth record she has broken this year. 
Another key swimmers against Calvin was Jen Mitchell who swam her season best in the 100 meter breaststroke and out-touched a couple of swim­mers to place first in the 200 meter breaststroke and third in the 200 meter individual med­ley. 
Katie Rose swam especially well, placing first in the 100 meter backstroke and the 200 meter backstroke. She swam her season best in both events. 
Ann Zielonka and Tara Krull also performed well in the 1000 meter freestyle, Janson said. 
Despite a pulled leg muscle, sophomore Jill Cooper swam well in the one of her two events she was able to compete in. Cooper placed second in the 100 meter butterfly and forth in the 200 meter butterfly. 
In spite of being tired and sore from training and also not­ing recent drops in times, Janson said five or six of his swimmers should be swimming fantastically by the end of the year based on the evaluation of this weekend's meet. 
see SWIMMING I page 11 

TTE 
0 N H 0 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "VVhere Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
.... 
-
Leary's timely comeback was Irish upset Falcons, break losing streak 
much needed in 82-72 victory 
ByHANKLOWENKRON 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Todd Leary made a timely return for the Indiana Hoosiers. 
Leary, who missed the 11th­ranked Hoosiers' first two Big Ten games with a sprained knee, rescued a sluggish of­fense with 16 second-half points Sunday, rallying Indiana from a 15-point deficit to an 82-72 victory over No. 10 Michigan. 
"When I went down in Indi­anapolis (Dec. 28), I thought it was a much worse injury than it really was," Leary said. "They said two-to-four weeks and it wasn't quite as bad.... I was shooting for the Iowa game (last Tuesday) .... I was proba­bly 75 percent (ready) for Iowa and we thought 1hat extra five days would really benefit it." 
Indiana's Alan Henderson had 19 points and 16 rebounds, his 1Oth double-double of the season, while Damon Bailey scored 18 points. The Hoosiers outscored Michigan 36-10 from the foul line. 
"When I came to Indiana, I felt that if I rebounded strong, then I figured that would be a way to secure myself some playing time," Henderson said. "I like to block out and try to predict where the ball is going to bounce otT the rim and go af­ter it strong." 
Henderson, who went into the game shooting 62.6 percent from the free throw line, made 13 of 16. 
"I worked with (assistant) coach Ron Felling on a new free throw technique and I think that practice ... helped me out," Henderson said. 
Indiana extended the nation's longest current home winning streak to 37 games and took the early lead in defense of its Big Ten championship as the only undefeated team in con­ference play. 
Indiana (10-2, 3-0) used pa­tience against Michigan to get back in the game and then pulled away while the Wolver­ines persisted in attempting 3­pointers that were off target. Michigan (11-3, 3-1) was 4-for­22 from 3-point range and shot 
38.7 percent overall. 
"We took some shots in the second half that you can't take when they are making a run and you can't take those," Michigan coach Steve Fisher said. "We needed to do a better job of getting the ball into Juwan (Howard). We chose to take the first shot we had in­stead of letting Juwan touch the ball." 
Bailey, who took oxygen sev­eral times on the bench as he battled leg cramps, put Indiana ahead to stay, 44-43 with 15:04 to play, and the Hoosiers went on to lead by as many as 15 be­fore the Wolverines closed with the help of three consecutive 3­pointers. 
Bobby Crawford's layup left Michigan trailing 77-72 with 27 seconds remaining, but Bailey made two free throws and Pat Graham hit three more. 
Jalen Rose scored 16 points and Ray Jackson 'lnd Jimmy King had 15 each for Michigan which lost its sixth consecutive game in Assembly Hall. 
"We missed some easy shots. We didn't convert and we let up on our defense," Rose said. 
"We know we can always score. It's stopping the other team from scoring. We sent them to the free throw line too many times," Jackson said. "We put up some bad shots. It's a case of us having to put together a full 40-minute game and we haven't done it yet." 
Brian Evans had 14 points and 15 rebounds as Indiana controlled the boards 49-39. 
Michigan never trailed in the first half, with Indiana troubled by its aggressive man-to-man defense. Indiana turned the ball over five times in the first five minutes and Jackson's two free throws with 5:55 left gave Michigan a 34-19 lead. 
But Indiana brought the ca­pacity crowd of 17,267 back to life as it held the Wolverines scoreless for the rest of the half while the Hoosiers were scor­ing the last 12 points of the half. 
Indiana, which made just four of 18 shots to start the half, be­gan the comeback when Bailey got his first field goal of the game with 4:14 left. Evans then sandwiched two baskets around another basket by Bai­ley and Henderson made four free throws. The Hoosiers trailed 34-31 at halftime despite shooting only 32 per­cent (8-for-25) and making 14 turnovers. 
-
·-­
Sophomores JPW Getaway 
Tickets go on sale today at 215 LaFortune from 3-5p.m. and are available while supplies last. 
For only $50°0 for the February 18-20 weekend you get Hotel (Holiday Inn), Transportation (United Limo) and a ticket (Phantom of the Opera or Second City). 
Tickets will be sold on a first-come first-served basis. Supplies are limited, so act now! 
Sponsored lJy Sophomore Class 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Writer 

They were in the midst of a six-game losing streak. They did not have a consistent goalie to turn to and stop the bleed­ing. They were up against the nation's 20th ranked team. Yet much to their credit, the Notre Dame hockey team responded with a solid 2-1 victory over the Bowling Green Falcons on Fri­day night at the JACC. 
The Irish could not pull off a second upset on Saturday, as they dropped a 6-1 decision to the visiting Wolverines of Michigan in front of 3,368 fans. 
Although no one ever likes to lose, coach Ric Schafer and his Irish have to be pleased with their weekend, especially Fri­day. In a game where Notre Dame definitely needed to re­gain their confidence, the de­fense was up to the challenge, and the offense was enough for the victory. 
The Irish scored single goals in the first two periods and kept the Falcons otT the scoreboard until the third period. Nursing a one-goal lead, it was sopho­more goalie Wade Salzman who came through with the big stops. 
"Wade really made the saves, which we needed," said Schafer. Brent Lamppa tallied the night's first goal just 4:42 into the game. It seemed to spark the struggling Irish for the rest of the game. 
Ben Nelsen did his job and beat goalie Bob Petrie at 7:53. 
The defense made that lead last. Only 20 shots were al­lowed to reach Salzman, many of them in a final-minute flurry. 
With Petrie off the ice in favor of an extra skater, the Falcons put heavy pressure on Salzman in the final 1:20. He was equal to the task. turning away nu­merous chances to preserve the win. 
"It was a great effort," 
Schafer said. "Friday's effort against drained the Irish for their game against Michigan. Playing a team that may be one of college hockey's strongest squads in recent years, Notre Dame needed to be at the top of the game. They were not. 
Michigan could only manage a James Botterill goal in the first period, but they broke the game open with a five-goal burst in the second. Five dif­ferent skaters, including Brian Oliver and Mike Knuble. The Irish got on the board with Jess than a minute remaining in the period on the strength of Jamie Morshead's conversion of a feed from Jamie Ling. 
Notre Dame did not have the energy to make a true surge in the third period but they did hold the potent UM offense scoreless. 
"We battled," said Schafer. " But they have players who are a threat every time they touch the puck. Their forwards are faster than any of our players." 
Still, other than one period of hockey, the weekend should be considered a success. The Irish managed to beat a very good team. 

Notice to all University of Notre Dame Faculty, Staff and Employees 

ADIOLOG~ 
+ I N C + 
is pleased to announce its outpatient offices have affiliated with CIGNA MANAGED CARE AND PPO PROVIDER NETWORKS 
Our offices offer: 

• 
easy registration 

•convenient, 
free parking 

•rapid 
turnaround of reports to your physician 


•Computed 
Tomography (CT Scans) 

• 
Diagnostic Imaging Services 


}EFFERSON MEDICAL ARTS BUILDING 919 East Jefferson Blvd. South Bend, Indiana 4661 7 (219) 288-4486 
BREAST IMAGING AND INFORMATION CENTER 
'~/ ···. 919 East Jefferson Blvd. South Bend, Indiana 46617 (219) 288-4486 
• 
Mammography 

• 
Ultrasound 


MEMORIAL MEDICAL PLAZA 707 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana 46601 (219) 232-1491 
MEMORIAL SKYWAY PLAZA 610 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana 46601 (219) 232-5191 
~------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------·--------­
Monday, January 17, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER 
HERE~ A SPoRT THAT ISN'T
Y'I<NOW, I 1111NK 50WuNV1 
Sf-fouL.D RE. f'LAC£ ~E ci'IU.. f\5 · OUR NA110Nfn.. !'ASS­11M EO. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

REMOTEL'/ flf.ROBIC. IN ~ttiC. H n-tE 6fi:A. RE.AL.L'/ "DOES ALL 
Tltf IIJORK. 

A H:.W t:m Ff>.Rn\t.R 0\-1, tiER£.''::. 1\\E IMPRESSION OF tJ\" \300i f...'S I \-\IT n\E GRo\l\-1\) 11-\ES't. f>.RE T\-1£. P<:>WOt.RE\l R9<\flll'I.S 0\" \1-\( SNClWBI\lL T\-\f\T \-\IT ME 
\~ 
~~~~~­
--r .,...., . -. :: ..., -' ... 
\=ROlli 1\\1: ANG\.t. Of Pt>.RT\C.lE OISI"t.R"it.M£lo.IT, WE. Cf\N THL \1-\E Sl'o\ClWBfl.\l 'tlfi.'S 11\R()\'.IN 
FR<JM G~ER 1\'t.R.£, Wl-ltRE. •1 
WE FIN\L. 

JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WATTERSON 
DAVE KELLETT FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 Ancient region of Asia Minor 
1 Like Ike 39 Each of eight in5Wellesley this puzzle student 43 Like measles 9 One 39-Across 44 Elliptical13 "I cannot tell 
45 Compass dir. 46 Home to Denali 14 Heraldic band Nation«! Park 15 Sandbags, 4&Teases

maybe 16 Holds up 
51 One 39-Across 17 Cafe additive 56 One 39-Across 18 Chemically 60 Stay informed nonreactive 62 Island group 19 Chiffonier near Fiji 21 One 39-Across 63 Periodical of 23 One 39-Across 
haute couture 

25 Verboten: Var. 65Small dog breed, for short 
26 Cantankerous 32 Rep.'s rival 
66 One 39-Across 35 "-be a cold 
&7 Plaintiff day in Hell ... " 68 Get ready 2 One way to read 
3 Sign of autumn's beginning 
4GoAWOL 5 One 39-Across 6-pronobis 7 Statesman Root &Coup­9 Transportation 
Secretary Federico­10 Penultimate 
fairy tale word 11 Wonk, maybe 12 Pocket 
15Actress
Ullmann 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 20 One-time link :-:-r:::-r:o-r=-~ 22 S y m bo I for density 7-t::-t:':+.::-t 24 Expenditure ~"'-+'"'-Wiillt-::-+-~~'-iioB8~=-+;:-! 27 Singer Ocasek of the Cars 28 Classic drama 
of Japan 
29 Seth's son 
300cho-, 
r:-+=+,.....,_,+=-iiiol.iiiii--:=::-EF.H Jamaica !111!1!~:+:-+=-8 31 One 39-Across -'-+~'+=--loiiio""""" 32 1982 movie 
thriller 
87+~;+.;:~ .::+:+.':+.:+.-:-"!"1-=+:':+.::-1 33 Iniquitous -:+7+.*.:-t 34 Pianist Hess -:-+=+:-:+:::-1 36 Broadway 
comedy of 1964 
69 Fusses 70 Orly birds? 71 Lighten up 
DOWN 1 Fishhook part 


37 Live's partner 40-Palmas (Canary Islands 
seaport) 41 Benevolent guy 42 Macs 471(ing Kong, e.g. 49 Quilt-making 
gathering 50 Treeless plain 52 Like the Boston­
accented pronunciation of many words 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Come to play or just to listen ... 
The Acoustic Cafe 
Thursday nights have never been so much fun... 
Starting up again January 20th In The Huddle 

The Maltese Falcon 
Starring Huphrey Bogart 
Showing at 8pm and I 0:30pm Montgomery Theater in Lafortune Student Center 
Admission $1 


Mental illness has warning signs, too. 
Withdrawal from social activities. Excessive anger. These could be the first warning signs of a mental Illness. Unfortunately. most of us don"t recognize the signs. Which Is tragic. Because mental illness can be treated. In fact, 2 out of 3 people who get help. get better. 
For a free booklet about mental Illness, call the National Mental Health Association: 
1-800-969-NMHA. 
[!~ Learn to see the warning signs. 
DINING HALL 

.. 
--
53 Card catalogue abbr. 54 Where the fat lady sings 55 Zaps 56 Ask to produce proof of age 57 Melville novel 
58 Participates in a regatta, perhaps 
59 One of the Bobbsey twins 61-LePew 62 Loan-granting Fed. agcy. 64 Fill a flat? 


By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sports Editor 
Rebounding from a dismal first half performance, the Notre Dame women's basket­
-ball team scored 56 points in the second stanza of its Satur­day evening match-up with the Explorers of LaSalle en route to a 92­73 victory. 
Freshman Beth Morgan paced the Irish with a career-high 27 points as the team im­proved its record to 10­4 in its Midwestern Collegiate Conference season opener. 
The squad closed the first half, which featured nine missed LaSalle free throws, fac­ing a one point deficit. 
Starting forwards Tootie Jones and Letitia Bowen and reserve Carey Poor all faced foul trouble after picking up three in the opening 20 min­utes. 
However, the Irish regained their composure in the second half and shot 64 percent from the field while outrebounding the Explorers 20-12. 

Overall. Notre Dame aver­aged 51 percent from the floor and outrebounded LaSalle 42­30. 
"We all played terrible in the first half and well in the second half," said Jones, who scored 11 points. "Our shooting and rebounding really came through for us." 
Three other players scored in the double digits for the Irish, including freshman forward Katryna Gaither. 
Gaither scored eight of her 10 points in the second half while blocking two shots and pulling down nine rebounds. 
Senior guard Kara Leary net­ted 13 points and Poor claimed 12. 
Mary Heller led LaSalle with 22 points. 
Saturday's contest had a touch of revenge. The Explor­ers, who last season posted a 16-11 record, defeated Notre Dame 69-63 in last year's con­ference opener. 
The 56-36 drubbing in the second half certainly redeemed the Irish. 
"I thought we came out and did everything we should do throughout the game," said Jones. "We just decided to wait until the second half." 
Saint Mary's gained control early in the game and defeated Beloit 77-71 Saturday afternoon 
By ANNE NAPIERKOWSKI "We're elated," commented in the last minute of the game Sports Writer coach Marvin Wood. "It feels to give them a comfortable great to be on the other end." lead. 
After a season of close yet With five minutes left in the The Belles gained control disappointing losses, the Belles' game, Beloit's oiTense came on early in the game and led at the held on to an early lead to beat strong to close the gap in the end of the first half 35-30 hy Beloit College 77-71 Saturday score. After the back and forth containing Beloit's height with afternoon. scoring, the Belles pulled away their new zone defense. 
"This is the first time we've played zone," said Wood. "They had a strong inside game. We weren't able to stop it, but we slowed it down." 
I 
Despite shooting 52 percent, compared to St. Mary's 48 per­cent, Beloit only took the lead once during the second half. The Belles' defense stayed 
""'J 
strong for the victory, evening 
out Beloit's record to 5-5. 

"They did a nice job and stayed within their game," said Beloit's head coach, Mimi Wal­
I 
i ters. "They took away our strength in height." 
Leading the Belles' attack were Sarah Kopperud and Jennie Taubenheim who raked in 23 and 20 points respec­tively. Both teammates at­tribute the win to the new zone coverage. 
"Beloit's power was on the inside," said Kopperud. 
With the seemingly effective new play of the Belles, team­mates are fired up for the re­maining games this season.
-"We went through a dry spell." said Taubenheim, "but this game has really built up our confidence." 
Coach Wood also remains op­timistic. "We're moving in the The Observertl<yle Kusek right direction. I think we will 
Sophomore Colleen Andrews and the Belles defeated Beloit 77-71. keep it up." 
Inside SPORTS 


Hockey SMC Sports 
College Basketball Coach Ric Schafer and · the Irish Hockey went 
-

Hoosiers win over No. 10SMC swimmers pleased one and one this week­Michigan with the help of with results despite loss. 
end. 
returning Leary. see page 14 see page13 see page14 


