
TI IE INDFPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAMF AND SAINT MARY'S 
Dorm room cable possible Acadamic workshops 
By KATE CRISHAM basically up to the University's we've been told that it could Assistant News Editor discretion," said Herczeg. cost only $300,000 for the ini­
to increase success 
According to Herczog, aca-tial set-up." 
Notre Dame students want demic reasons will force the Herczog said that it would be By MISSY LIND confidential. their cable television. The ques­University to install cable in in-up to the University to deter-_N_ew_s_W_ri_re_r________ The workshops are designed tion is, will the University give dividual rooms in the near fu-mine how to settle the monthly to give students an added feel­it to them? ture. cable bills. Over the course of this ing of security in their academ­
Student Government will "Sure, it will be great to have "Some networks, such as semester, the Counseling and ic success at Saint Mary's. submit a report to the Board of cable for entertainment pur-CNN and CSpan, give free ac-Career Development Center at "The workshops teach stu­Trustees on September 29th, poses, but having cable also cess to educational institu-Saint Mary's, located in dents study skill techniques to requesting that the University opens up different academic tions," she said. "The LeMans Hall, will offer students help ensure academic success," install cable television when it options," she said. University has its own options the opportunity to attend a according to Bentley-Lesnak. 
"For example, within a few about how to do that." series of academic success . The Test-Taking and 
• see SENATE, page 3 years, students and teachers at According to Herczog, the workshops. Managing Anxiety Workshop 
Boston College will be able to University also expressed some The workshops began six will be held on Tuesday, mstalls e-mad m all dorm transmit things back and forth concern that cable television in years ago in an effort to aid October 11 or Wednesday, rooms within the next two to each other through cable," each room might break up the students in studying and help October 12. It will teach stu­years. According to Larissa she said. "This is very interac-'Notre Dame community'. students to comprehend the dents how to prepare for tests Herczeg, executive coordinator tive education." "They were worried that it importance of studying, accord-and how to relax while taking a of Board of Trustees reports, Herczeg said that Student would end the tradition of ing to Carol Bentley-Lesnak, a test. It will also inform stu­installing e-mail and cable at Government contacted other watching cable in the lounges," counselor in the Counseling dents how to stop anxious the same time is the most sen-colleges and universities to find she said. "But if Notre Dame and Career Development thoughts such as "I am going to sible and cost-effective action out how they have handled the has to use T.V. as a way of uni-Center. fail," and enforce positive for the University to take. question of cable installation. fying the student body, then we Workshop topics include: thoughts such as "I can do 
"Since they're already going "Every school we talked to definitely need to search for Time Management, Test-this." to be wiring the rooms for e-either has cable or is in the other options." Taking, Managing Anxeity, The Stress Management mail, it makes sense to install process of installing it," Herczog noted that the stu-Stress Management, Reading, Workshop will be held on cable now, too," said Herczeg. Herczeg said. "Everyone is get-dent surveys which were dis-and Preparing for Finals. Wednesday, November 2 or "It just involves pulling the cox-ting it-from Creighton tributed to the dorms have Along with the specialized Thursday, November 3. At this ial cable wires." University in the middle of shown overwhelming support workshops, an Academic session students will recognize 
After this, the University Nebraska to Boston College." for cable installation. Support Group will meet every where stress in their lives would then have two options-According to Herczog, last "The students are for it, it is Tuesday from 4-5 p.m. comes from help them to turn either become its own cable year the University rejected a extremely cost-effective, and This group will allow stu-their negative thoughts into company by negotiating with task force proposal recom-we are going to have to do it dents to share their feelings on more positive ones. the individual networks, or go mending cable installation. sooner or later," she said. different classes and gain sup-The Reading Workshop will through a private cable com-"The University rejected it "Why have to go wire the port from fellow students who be held on Wednesday, pany. because they were told it would rooms twice? It makes sense to may have the same concerns. November 16 or Thursday, 
"Which option to take is cost $1 million," she said. "But install cable now." Matters disussed within the workshops are kept strictly see SUCCESS/ page 4 

Willke: Pro-choice should be called pro-abortion 
By ANALISE TAYLOR New Writer 
Dr. John and Barbara Willke 
each wear a lapel pin with tiny 
little feet indicating their 
commitment to the pro-life 
movement. 
These feet, indicative of the 
babies' lives they hope to save 
through support counseling and 
loving care, symbolize 25 years 
of dedication to the movement. 
"The largest part (of the 
movement) is the unknown 
part," said Barbara Willke. The 
media does not accurately por­
tray the movement, according 
to her. 
The Willkes cited the slaying 
of Dr. Peter Gunn by radical 
zealot Paul Hill outside Gunn's 
abortion clinic as an example of 
biased reporting. 
"Pro-life leaders unequivo­
cally condemned Paul Hill's ac­
tions as murder," said John 
Willke. "Murder outside the 
door is just as reprehensible as 
inside the door. His actions 
were anti-abortion but not pro­
life." 
"He (Paul Hill) is the antithe­
sis of the pro-life movement," 
he said. 
The Wilkes stated abortion, 
infancide, and euthanasia as 
their three main focuses. 
"You cannot give someone 
the right to do wrong," said 
Barbara Willke. 
The Willkes vehemently op­
posed the name of the pro­"The media typifies us as a Pill," said John Willke. fault." 
choice movement. goody-two shoes organization," "Abortion is a fall back." The Willkes also discussed in­
"The group should be called Barbara Willke said, but there Abortion is talking about a formation about population 
pro-abortion," said John are two million couples cleared person having the autonomous growth rates. 
Willke. "Abortion is a direct, for adoption in this country and right to kill another, said John "The West is depopulating it­
volitional action by one individ­almost no babies, she contin­Willke. self at a dramatic level," said 
ual to another." ued. "More birth control, more John Willke. 
The Willkes criticized the Contraceptives are not the pregnancy," said Barbara "Abortion is the only moral 
press, stating that it portrayed answer either, the Willkes said. Willke. "People will say they issue where we can decide who 
the pro-life movement in a bad "Fifty per cent of the women were using birth control so that commits the crime," said 
light. coming to the clinics are on the must mean they weren't at Barbara Willke. 


page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, September 22, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Driving will never be the 
•


same again 
While Driving through South Bend the other day, I waited impatiently, with my windows down, at a stop signal on Douglas road. Anticipating the green light, I nervously started to look around. A heavy set man sat anx­iously in a blue Toyota directly next to my car. He confidently tapped his pudgy hands on the steer­ing wheel to the old Rolling Stone's classic "You can't always get what you want." That's when it happened. 
He slightly tilted his head back and glanced in the rear view mirror "the tilt," I call it. He slowly lifted his right hand and vigorously started picking his right nostril. 
I stared partially out of amazement and par­tially out of boredom. As his finger swirled around his nostril I wondered if he forgotten he was in public? He seemed to quickly lose interest in the right nostril and moved his fm­ger to the left nostril. 
I was repulsed. My eyes kept moving from the solid red light to the man in the blue Toyota. He appeared to be going for a world record when I got busted. 
Now let's not forget, the fmger up his nose is connected to the hand closest to my car. He must have felt my stare, because he slowly turned his head my way. Our eyes had met. I thought the man would have removed his fin­ger from his nose out of embarrassment, but on the contrary he kept it in and continued digging. He looked at me as an intruder, invading his privacy. 
I almost felt pity for the balding man. After all, his actions were a completely normal function and I was the one rudely staring at him. I guess picking your nose is better than some of the more gruesome alternatives. But, there is a time and a place for everything and for some reason hundreds of Americans believe the time to pick your nose is in the car. 
In the distance I heard a horn beep at me and I noticed the arrow was suddenly green. I quickly pealed out of my lane. Nevertheless, I couldn't get that vision of him out of my head all day. I have seen many "driving nose pick­er's" before, however this had to be my most intense session. 
I tried to analyze the situation. Why do so many people "pick" in the car? A sense of false privacy could be one reason but the accessibility of the rear view mirror seems more convincing. Sitting in the driver's side of the car is the only time of the day that you can see directly up your nose. 
I believe people subconsciously react so quickly to their impulse to "pick" -after all, they are in the comfort of their own car-that they completely forget about the world race by outside. They seem to zone out the people around them. 
There hasn't been a day gone by after I acknowleded the situation that I have not been subjected to a "driving nose picker." They are everywhere. So be on the look out and if you are one of them beware because there might be someone as pointless as me watching you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



News Lab Tech Laura Ferguson Mike Hungeling Nancy Dunn Production Sports Heather Gibson Thomas Schlidr Kim Massman 
Viewpoint Accent Michael O'Hara Tom Roland Carolyn Wilking Graphics 
Chris Mullins 


• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 
Poverty a national problem few Americans willing to face 
Four in five working Americans say the condition of the poor and selfishness are serious national problems. But ask them what they consider important in life, and the same numbers say having a beautiful home, a new car and other nice things. These are among the findings of a new national study on work, money and religion that reveals a desire of many Americans to lead simpler, gentler lifestyles even as they fmd themselves caught in the rat race. Religion does appear to help individuals lead more ethical lives in the marketplace, but sociologist Robert Wuthnow also found substantial evidence many people are turn­ing to churches and synagogues more to salve their conscience than challenge it. "We live in a materialistic culture, and we want money· and possessions, and very few people have heard a powerful voice telling them to resist those impulses, or how to resist those impulses," said Wuthnow, who reports the study findings in his new book "God and Mammon in America" due out this week from The Free Press. "The point is the clergy need to be speaking more forthrightly and bold­ly on these issues." The national Gallup survey of 2,013 working adults in 1992 was part of a five-year project Wuthnow directed on Religious and Economic Beliefs and Values. Ninety-two percent said the condition of the poor is a serious social problem, while 81 percent said selfishness is a serious problem. Three-quarters of the respondents said there is "too much emphasis on money" in America. Brought down to a per­sonal level, however, 80 percent said having a beautiful home, a new car and other nice things was absolutely essential, very important or fairly important to them. Three in four respondents said wearing nice clothes was important. And organized religion, which tends to treat money like sex when it comes to taboo topics in the sanctuary, has not done a good job in challenging people to examine their own lifestyles, according to the study. The number one reason people chose their pre­sent line of work: the money. When it comes to how they allocate their treasure on Earth, Wuthnow found in interviews that often religion is merely a therapeutic device to make people feel good about themselves. In their own lives, respondents reported considering themselves anxious about their personal needs no matter how far they are up the economic ladder. One worker interviewed in the book said she earns a six-figure income, but it would take at least another $50,000 a year for her to live comfortably. 
Kid dropping charges against Jackson Sisters blame devil for their behavior 
LOS ANGELES DALLAS 
Prosecutors have decided not to file child molestation Myra Obasi and her sisters say they were fleeing the charges against Michael Jackson, the Los Angeles Times devil. They gave away their children, tried to drive into reported today. Jackson was accused in a civil lawsuit of traffic and off bridges, and eventually abandoned their molesting a 13-year-old boy he befriended· while the two car, saying it was cursed. Finally, prosecutors say, they pursued their friendship in Los Angeles and at Jackson's tried to remove the evil possessing Myra by pummeling "Neverland" ranch in Santa Barbara County. her and gouging out her eyeballs, possibly with their fin­Prosecutors are likely to say they considered the teen­gernails. Doretha Crawford, 34, and Beverly Johnson, 35, ager, now 14, a credible witness-but he has declined to are charged with aggravated assault against their now­testify, the Times quoted unidentified sources as saying. blind sister and could get up to 10 years in prison. Larry Feldman, the teen-ager's lawyer, told the Times he Crawford and Johnson have told police that they were met with prosecutors from the two counties Monday. He fleeing demons but that they don't remember how their would not disclose what was said. Although Jackson sister lost her eyes. Obasi, 30, also testified that she can't denies any wrongdoing and has not been criminally remember how she was blinded, but that she doesn't charged, he reportedly reached a multimillion-dollar set­believe her sisters were responsible. "It's the truth," said tlement in the civil suit with the teen-ager and his family. the former second-grade teacher, . 
Tobacco giants sued for health bills Everyone wins in the game of love 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. HAVERHILL, Mass. 
West Virginia says tobacco companies should bear the After months of campaigning for a seat in the brunt of the $500 million per year the state spends treat­Legislature ended in defeat, a disconsolate Alana Swiec ing tobacco-related illnesses. On Tuesday, West Virginia went before her supporters to give a concession speech became the fourth state to sue tobacco companies to when a man grabbed the microphone. "Wait, I would recover money spent treating health problems caused by like to say something," he began. "Alana, you won me. tobacco. The state court lawsuit against 17 tobacco com­Will you marry me?" It was Swiec's boyfriend. And the panies seeks punitive damages, compensation for future answer from the "totally shocked" Swiec was yes. health costs and a ban on promoting cigarettes to minors. "Everybody clapped and cried. It put a whole new spin "For decades, the tobacco companies have gotten West on the evening," she said. Bill Laffey said that he had Virginians hooked on their products, taken millions of planned to pop the question regardless of the election's dollars in profits back to their companies, and stuck tax­outcome. But he admitted the proposal cushioned Swiec's payers with the bill for the medical care of people made loss in the Democratic primary Tuesday. Despite Lafey's sick by tobacco," said Attorney General Darrell McGraw planning, the 47 -year-old car salesman forgot to bring Jr. "As in other recent lawsuits of this nature, the one thing. "Where's the ring?" asked Swiec. He sponta­claims made are without merit," said R.J. Reynolds neously handed her the only thing he had at the time, the spokeswoman Peggy Carter. TV remote control, as a symbol of commitment. 


Atlanta 75 64 Dallas 88 63 New Orleans 86 72 Baltimore 78 53 Denver 65 33 New York 81 59 Boston 78 58 Los Angele 81 62 Philadelphia 79 56
~ 
,,,,, 

Chicago 82 57 Miami 87 74 Phoenix 82 71 Columbus 80 51 Minneapolis 80 60 
Via Associated Pl8ss Graph/csNet 01994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Thursday, Sept. 22 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 22. 
OHIO 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Prsssute 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STOFiMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VISAssoclaiBCIPress 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excc:pt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rh< Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
~~ 
· Thursday, September 22, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page3 
•STUDENT SENATE 




Campus voting, cable issues facing students 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
News Writer 
The possibility of having cable television in dorm rooms and voter registration on cam­pus were topics of discussion at last night's Student Senate meeting. 
The Student Government will present a report on making dorm rooms cable ready at the next meeting of the Board of Trustees, according to Larissa Herczeg, coordinator for the Board of Trustees reports for the Student Government. In ref­erence to the surveys students filled out last week concerning the acquisition of cable televi­sion, Herczeg said "very posi­tive results" were received. 
Most universities get educa­tional channels, like CNN and CSPAN, free or for a very low fee, Herczeg said. She spoke of "the possibility for other chan­nels, like entertainment chan­nels" as well. 
Student body president Dave Hungeling said the Student Government would be "stress­ing the educational side of cable" to the Board of Trustees in order to make the dorm rooms cable ready and to 


EX"PRESS 
Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room-W!Fortune Student Center-631-8128 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00pm Saturday, 8:00 am -9:00 pm Sunday, 9:00 am -3:00 pm 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! 



FREE 
WORLD SERIES 

AT TIIE 
STUDENT 
FILlVI 
FESTIVAL 
SEP'1...._30 & 
OCT_1 

7:30 & 9:45 
A.T TII:E S:N"IT:E 
"bring Notre Dame up to date with a lot of other schools." Junior Class President George Fischer said "cable television would present a cultural and intellectual benefit to this uni­versity." 
The other topics discussed among Senate members last night concerned voter registra­tion on college campuses. Hungeling spoke of a non-parti­san politically active organiza­tion called "Lead or Leave," whose headquarters is in Washington, D.C. 
This group has "a nation-wide voter registration drive," according to Hungeling. They are working with universities to get schools to be "a base" for voter registration, he added. In order for the Student Senate to get more involved with this or­ganization, the Senate is look­ing for a liason between the Student Government and "Lead or Leave," says Hungeling. 
Paul Dougherty from The Gideons International Bible company was a guest speaker at the meeting. As a represen­tative from Gideons, Dougherty was passing out the small New Testament pocket Bibles on campus Wednesday. According to Dougherty, the Gideon orga­nization's objective is to encourage "a personal relation­ship with Christ." 
Gideon "presents the Word" to 162 countries on campuses and in hotels, motels, and hospitals, according to Dougherty, who called himself and his associ­ates "Christian businessmen." 
Hungeling thanked Dougherty for speaking at the meeting and informing the Senate as to why Gideon was on campus because "a lot of people were wonder­ing" why the organization was handing out pocket Bibles Wednesday afternoon. 


Cameras banned in courts 
By HARRY F. ROSENTHAL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

There will be no television cameras in federal courtrooms, a panel of judges who make rules for the courts has de­cided. The action was formally announced today. 
"Their basic concern was the potential impact on jurors," said David Sellers, a spokesman for the Judicial Conference of the United States. He said the judges worried about "any neg­ative impact on jurors, wit­nesses, potential distraction of witnesses and whether jurors were made nervous by any fear of possible harm." 
Cameras have become the norm in many state courts, al­lowing the general public to see proceedings in highly publi­cized cases, like the murder case against O.J. Simpson in Los Angeles and the rape trial in Florida of William Kennedy Smith. 
After a three-year experiment in six U.S. district courts and two appeals courts, the panel on Tuesday voted down a pro­posal to make the pilot project permanent. The experiment will end on Dec. 31. 
Research presented to the conference said that between July 1, 1991, and June 30, 1993, news media filed applica­tions for photo coverage of 257 cases and that 82 percent were approved. 
"The most common type of coverage was television cover­age of trials," said the research by the federal judicial center. "Overall, attitudes of judges to­ward electronic media coverage of civil proceedings were ini­tially neutral and became more favorable after experience un­der the pilot program," the re­port said. 
· The Judicial Conference of the United States, the policy­making arm of the federal courts, discussed the issue for about 20 minutes before voting nearly 2-1 against making the change. Sellers would not release the actual vote, but said Chief Justice William Rehnquist, who heads the Conference, votes only in case of a tie. 
The experiment had involved only civil trials, not criminal, at the individual judges' discre­tion. 
The 27 -member Judicial Conference is composed by the chief justice and includes chief. judges of the 13 federal appel­late circuits and judges from district courts in each circuit. 
The district courts conducting the experiment were in Indianapolis, Boston, Detroit, Philadelphia, Seattle and New York City. 

Grad Communities ND 

The Challenge ofAdult Christianity 
An opportunity for graduate and professional students and/or their spouses to share their Christian faith and experience in small community groups and to explore together the challenge of living that faith as young adult professional people. 
SUNDAY 2 October 1994 
Fischer Community Center 6:00 -8:00 p.m. Pizza Supper, Information, Beginning 
New groups will be formed. Continuing grOUJ!S will be on hand to share their experience. 
Reservations and Information: return the Application Form received in the mail and Ior call John Gerber, C.S.C. at 1-8601 or Sharon Harwell at 1-8607 by September 30. 

·~------~~~-.--~---------------~--­
-~ 


page 4 The Observer • NEWS 


Willke 
continued from page 1 
pro-abortion groups." 
In the 25 years since the Willke's formally joined the pro-life movement, they have lectured on the subject of abor­tion and the pro-life movement in 60 different countries. Their published works have been translated into 28 languages. 
"You need to just keep educating, educating, educat­ing, and use every opportunity you can," said Barbara Willke. 
One of the largest hurdles for the pro-life movement is the fi­nancial gap between its organi­zations and those of the pro­abortion camp, particularly Planned Parenthood. 
"Planned Parenthood is the most important, well-financed, 
If You see news Rock and Roll fantasy 
haPPening, call The 
Eager students wait in line for a chance to buy tickets to the Indigo Girls concert. Tickets for the popular band quickly sold out. 
Observer. 63 t·5323. 
&~~~m~ii®m JFrr~~Ihrlli~m~ ~®J])Ih®Illi®Ir®~ i!liDcdl ~IIDJ])ft®rr~ 
Announcing the National Security Education Program Competition 
Win an NSEP scholarship to study abroad in regions of the world outside of Canada and Western Europe. Applicable to most foreign study abroad programs. 
Come to the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams on Monday evening, September 26, 1994 at 7 p.m. in room 131 DeBartolo 
t 



FACULTY UPPER ROOM 
SERIES 

"FAITH AND PROFESSIONAL LIFE" 
An opportunity to reflect with colleagues and spouses/guests on the integration of spiritual concerns and professional challenges and demands. 
TUESDAY 

27 September 1994 
Faculty Dining Room of the South Dining Hall Dinner at 7:00p.m.-Discussion until9:00 p.m. 
Speaker Michael K. Sain Freimann Professor of Electrical Engineering "Humility and Academic Life: Over the Rainbow?" 
Reservations: Return the form received in the mail or simply call John Gerber, C.S.C. at 1-8601 or Sharon Harwell at 1-8607 by Friday, September 23. 
A donation of$5.00 at the door or by check made out to Campus Ministry can help defray the expenses of the dinner. (@( 
Co-Sponsored by: Campus Ministry and 

fl
the Center for Social Concerns 

............. E 
powerful and demonic organi­zation in the world," said John Willke. "We are dwarfed by them financially." 
Despite this gap, the pro-life movement has clearly survived. Although the couple admits they may not live to see the Supreme Court overturn the 1973 ruling on Roe V. Wade, they have no doubt that it will be overturned someday. 
"It is such a human rights violation. It can't last forever," said Barbara Willke. 
"The amazing thing is not that we haven't won, but that we haven't lost yet," John Willke said. "This a grass-roots movement which is opposed to the movers and the shakers, the institutions and the founda­tions of this society." 
Next year, the Willkes plan to carry their pro-life message to to the rest of the world. 
Thursday, September 22, 1994 

Success 
continued from page 1 
November 17. It will propose ways for students to become a more active reader by using a method called muscle reading. This method will require stu­dents to become involved in readings so more information is absorbed. 
The Preparing for Finals Workshop will be held on Tuesday, November 29 or Wednesday, November 30. It will guide students on how to more efficently manage their time while studying for finals. It will employ knowledge from all the previous workshops to show students that cramming is not the best way to learn im­portant material. 

Office Cleaners Wanted: Full or part time, evening or day hours available. Experience helpful but not required. Hourly wage and benefits. Call Mary Ann at 289,0385. EOE M/F 
THEY CHANGED THE WAY CAMPAIGNS ARE WON 
...CLIFFHANGING SUSPENSE:~ 
-Janet Maslin, TilE NEW YORK TIMES 



"EXHILARATING! 
James Carville is the largest, most resonant character in recent AJUerican movies:· 
-Terrenee Ra!!erty, TilE NEW YORKER 

'1\VERY ENTERfAINING MOVIE:' 
-David Denby, NEW YORK MAGAZINE 



'1\MOVING SNAPSHOT 
of the enerey and frenzy that went into the. unorthodox 
Clinton campatgn. James Carville remains amagnetic star:' 
-Jad Mathews, NEW YORK NEWSDAY 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE Friday & Saturday 7:30 and 9:30 pm 


·---~--------· --~--~~ ~-~--~~---------~-------------.._.. 
Thursday, September 22, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Former student fights injuries with NO's help 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
News Writer 
Although he is barely able to walk or talk, former Notre Dame graduate student Zheng­de Wang still keeps in contact with the University through the help of Sister Jean Lenz and Osco Drug. 
Wang, a Ph. D. candidate in sociology, was struck by an automobile on October 20, 1989 on Notre Dame Avenue.The accident left him in a coma, which Wang quickly recovered from. But the injury also left him unable to perform the sim­plest motor functions. He had to undergo nearly two years of physical therapy befor~ being able to return to his home in Tianjin, China. 
In 1990, members of the stu­dent body began a fund-raising project called "The Shirt for a Cause" to assist Wang and his family. The shirt was sold as a promotional item for the 1990 Miami game and helped raise 
SOCIAL JUSTICE FORUM CHARITY 9,HOLE GOLF SCRAMBLE 
Entire Notre Dame Community Welcome at ND Campus Golf Course Monday, September 26 
Tee times between 3 p.m. & 5:30 p.m. Register in Law School Lounge between 12 p.m. & 1 p.m., Thursday, Friday & Monday 
Entry Fee: Prizes $10-with Golf Season Pass 
Awarded!!

$15-without Golf Season Pass 
more than $ 100,000. 
While studying at Notre Dame, Wang began a special relationship with Lenz, an as­sistant vice president for stu­dent affairs. He arrived on cam­pus before classes began and stopped Lenz to ask her for directions. She gladly gave them and invited him to visit her office whenever he could. He did. 
Lenz describes Wang as "very interesting". "There are a mil­lion Wang stories," she says. She remembers two of them in particular quite fondly. 
"One time, Wang needed to go to a store and asked me if I could recommend one. I offered 
1803 South Bend Ave. Campus Shoppes Plaza 
277-2974 
to drive him to the mall and assist him in his purchase," Lenz relates. " He was amazed and said that this was 'a big store"'. 
"One summer, he took a bus trip out west. While boarding the bus, he helped an older woman with her bags. The woman was very grateful and asked what he did for a living. He replied that he was a grad­uate student at Notre Dame. The woman answered that she should have known he was a Notre Dame student because of his simple act of kindness. When he got back, Wang asked me if this was something that was required of Notre Dame 
Not valid with any other offer. New customers only. 




Meet Author 
Murray Sperber 
Friday, Sept. 23rd 2 to 4 Saturday, Sept. 24th 1Q_, 11 :30 
Will Autograph His Book 


''Shake Down the Thunder'' 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Store Hours Friday, Sept. 23rd 9 to 7 Saturday, Sept. 24th 9 to 7 

students," laughed Lenz. 
Wang is now home in China, but his parents receive the nec­essary medical supplies from the Osco Drug Store on Ironwood Ave. Wang's mother sends faxes to Lenz telling her what they need. Lenz places the order and then ships it to Tianjin. Wang's family pays for the supplies through the Notre Dame Credit Union. 
"I imagine they could proba­bly get this medicine in China, but I think this is their way of maintaining contact with Notre Dame and the whole communi­ty," Lenz said. 
She also says that the family is very fond and trusting of the University. They send regular letters and Christmas cards to the University officers and to members of the sociology de­partment. 
Wang's parents keep Lenz and other faculty members in­formed of his condition. Apparently, he is now able to pronounce. simple words, but his healing process is one of extremely gradual improve­ment. 
Although she is not sure, Lenz says it wouldn't surprise her if Wang and his mother visit the campus in the future. 


Chinese gunman identified 
ByL. FU Associated Press 
BEIJING 
The gunman who killed nine people and wounded 40 in a shooting rampage on a major Beijing thoroughfare was an army first lieutenant, police said today. 
The gunman, identified as Tian Mingjian, had been disci­plined for beating another sol­dier, the official Xinhua news agency said, quoting a senior police officer. He was a mem­ber of an army unit stationed in the capital's suburbs. 
Tuesday's shooting rampage was shocking in a country where the incidence of violent crime is small compared with that of the United States. It be­gan in the Beijing suburb of Tongxian, where the gunman commandeered a vehicle and headed toward the center of Beijing, said the Hong Kong China News Agency, regarded as a mouthpiece for the Chinese government. 

Youth 


In Asia 

Tokyo $889* Taipei $839* Seoul $819* Hong Kong $1015* Bangkok $1069* Kathmandu $1559* 
Forcs ore round trlp from Chicago O'Hor~ R£. strictIons~ply, t-sore notlncfudcd ond I orcs ~~~o 't\onsc. Call lorotherworldwide 

Coundl Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn Chicago, IL 60610 

(312) 951-0585 
Call for a FREE Student Travels magazine! 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, September 22, 1994 
U.S. to Haitian military: Stop the beatings now 
By JEFFREY ULBRICH 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 
The commander of U.S. forces in Haiti urged the country's mil­itary leaders today to stop using "unnecessary force" against pro-democracy demonstrators. 
Sporadic violence erupted Tuesday at Port-au-Prince's docks, airport and huge Cite Soleil slum, while American sol­diers stood by and watched in dismay. Witnesses said one man was clubbed to death by a Haitian policeman. 
The military government banned street demonstrations in a communique on state me­dia late Tuesday night. The broadcast was repeated this morning. 
To head off further violence, Lt. Gen. Henry Hugh Shelton· and his top aides met this morning with army chief Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras. Shelton said he would urge Cedras to rein in police, soldiers and pro-army militiamen. 
The "use of unnecessary force is a matter of concern to us," he said before the meeting at army headquarters. 
Shelton said American sol­diers would leave crowd control and law and order to Haitian authorities, but left open the possibility U.S. troops could step in if the situation goes out of control. 
"It's an internal law and or­der situation," Shelton said, adding that if the Haitians fail to take the appropriate mea­sures, "we will take the next step." He did not specify what that step might be. 
The arrival of the Americans, under an accord brokered over the weekend that headed off an invasion, has prompted pro­democracy demonstrations and celebrations. 
The jubilation has led to ugly clashes with Haitian police, who beat and tear gassed crowds that gathered to wel­come the U.S. forces. American troops were preparing today to spread out from Haiti's two major cities amid appeals for calm by political leaders. 
In Washington, White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta told reporters this morning: "We're going to increase the patrols. We're going to make very clear to General Cedras that we can't see the kind of repetition of the situ~tion that we saw yester­day. 
U.S. Embassy spokesman Stanley Schrager told The Associated Press that the pres­ence of U.S. soldiers "sort of opened up an avenue for demonstrations that hasn't ex­isted before." 
The U.S.-Haiti agreement, worked out by a delegation headed by former President Carter, requires military lead­ers to step down by Oct. 15 and allow the restoration of exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. 
Shelton told NBC-TV that American officials contacted Cedras on Tuesday. He told a news conference this morning that a tape was being prepared to tell Haitians the purpose of the American presence and how residents can best cooper­ate. 
One problem that does not bode well for efforts to quell the violence could be that Cedras does not have firm enough-con­trol over police or militiamen, Shelton said. 
"Many of them can be classi­fied only as thugs," he said. 
U.S. troops landed in Port-au­Prince on Monday, and about 1,800 Marines landed Tuesday at Haiti's second city, Cap­Haitien, in the north. Once their equipment is ashore, they are to begin fanning out into the countryside. 

The English Departn1ent Presents 




Coppelia Kahn 
"Antony's Wound" 
Thursday, September 22, 1994 8 p.m. -CCE Auditorium and 


Stephen Greenblatt 
"The Mousetrap: Remnants ofthe Sacred in Shakespeare's England" 
Friday, September 23, 1994 3:15p.m.-101 DeBartolo Hall 

Free Admission 




Go Irish! I 
Ernst & Young wishes Notre Dame a successful 1994 football season! 
In a grand pregame tradition, we will be hosting a tailgate on Saturday, September 24. We are looking forward to this opportunity to cheer on the Fighting Irish with Accounting, Business and Engineering Students and Faculty. 
Come celebrate with Ernst & Young! 
S!/ ERNST& YOUNG LLP 
An equal opportunity employer 



THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager john Lu= Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advenising Manager............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scort Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Eiizabeth Regan ControUer ..................................... Kristen Marrin a 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tio~ of either instirution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­tonals represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Comme maries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munory and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• I, FARRINGTON 



Endowment shopping list ... 
What 'All the Money in the World' could buy 
Dear Editor: ·x .... 
Nothing gives me more pleasure shore biology labs. And since much how about $65,000 stipends forI do not pretend·to be any kitldofphilosopher or than reading responses to my col­of the faculty is Holy Cross clergy, I grad students? I would even settletheologian. I'm only an average student of history umn. If only more of you would bet they get a real break on payroll. for $45,000. As long as thetrying to understand my faith in a secular society. 
write them. They all start off the (This is all guessing on my part, but University gave me the use of myI am moved to write the issue of the ordination of same way -"How little you under­it seems to make sense, doesn't it?) own Travelodge to get back andwomen to the priesthood. 
stand of international relations, And think of their income. All forth from my house two blocksWhat has struck me has been the complete lack Ozersky," or "Bosh! You know noth­those rich alumni you see in their from school. Why not? We canof reference to the sources that are being assailed. 
ing of the Dance." But the column is Lincolns at football games, don't you afford it. We have All the Money in It seems that Church documents are the most the last refuge of amateur opinion. I think they are good for a few million the World. 
widely discussed and least read literature avail­am not responsible for anything a year? And all those people who All the Money in the World! Let'sable today. 
except its liter­wish they had get William Shakespeare here asIn her inside Column on Sept. 15, Kelly O'Neil ary quality. gone to Notre writer in residence, or at leastquestions "the Vatican's illogical explanation for That having 
Dame, and so Charles Portis. Get Stanley Kubrickexcluding women from the priesthood.... · been said, let cough up to make our orientation films. HirePersonally. I found the Pope's most recent letter 

Josh
me propose "ghost alum­Marion Barry to lecture on the 
on the subject very clear. Basically the entire another idea. ni" money honor code. Or wilder ideas-a grillargument boils down to the simple fact that "the It is a simple like clock­for Lafortune, so you could get eggs Church has no authority whatsoever to confer one, and made work? Can in the morning-even if it was after

Ozersky
priestly ordination on wonHln" (Ordinatio sacerdo­in the spirit of 1 there be a 9:00 a.m.! A fourth bathroom stall,talis, n.4). This letter, dated May 22, 1994; is only loyalty and i vault big to match the number of places that a few pages long and gives a brief summary of responsible sell food and coffee! An island for
------~============~--------enough to
how and why the Church came to hold this posi­journalism. It hold all that the OUC to run, complete with ation. I strongly encourage her and anyone else to is this: Notre Dame should start money? long, rambling constitution andread this document. 
spending money right and left, And speaking of football, do you plenty of complicated laws and codi­O'Neil's notion that maleness and femaleness because it has All the Money in the think the University might make a cils needing their administrative are simply physical characteristics that obstruct World. few bucks there? Every idiot you energies. Next machines for theequality, doesn't do justice to the deeper meaning 
When I think of that giant en­see in the mall wearing a Notre Observer. New departments all
of being a male or a female. 
dowment, turning over at compound Dame hat is contributing to our together: the Department ofI was conceived with a Y-chromosome. Nobody interest every day, it makes my pan­ocean-sized endowment. Everytime Reservoir Dogs Studies, theasked me if I wanted it, but I'm dealing with it as creas quiver with the thrill. All that you hear the Notre Dame fight song, Department of Yiddish Languagebest 1can. Every cell in my body is distiilctly male. 
money! Why don't they spend some we get a check. Oh, and every time and Literature, the Gordon Lightfoot Try as I might, I will never be able to bear a child. 
already? Now, perhaps you think you see Notre Dame on TV, that is Chair of the Department ofIt is just not possible. 
that the university is merely being our unique contract with NBC oper­Canadian Culture, and more. We
My point is that men and women are fun-. 
responsible, or that I overestimate ating, another vast cascading river can afford it. 
damentally different, yet they are PElrffl;GtlY ~ompli~ its funds. I say, responsible to who? of money gushing into our coffers. A supercollider. The personalmentary. Although neither is better or worse than There's almost a billion dollars in Judas Priest! Let's start spending it papers of Aristotle_ A full-size repli­the other, their equality is only in thejr common there! They could cover the library today! ca of Saturn. We can afford alldignity as children of God. 1;;;; with platinum shingles, and still I mean, really. Have you ever these things, we have only to reach.F~ally, I ~n~ it ironic that the Church, by recog­have enough left over to hire three tried to make a microfilm copy in out for them. I put it to you, Mr. 
mzmg the limtts of her authori~ ,. is ~,tttacked for ex-presidents as lecturers. the library? We only have one read­Provost, or whoever's in charge ofbeing too authoritative. <I truly feel sorry that Seriously, can you imagine how er-printer! Every state college in the money-let's break the bank!
O'Neil feels excluded from the Church. I hope she much money Notre Dame has? This North Dakota has half a dozen, and We of all people ought to know yourecognizes that the model of hoUness that the is a school with an endowment in our million-volume research library can't take it with you. Why store up"male-dominated hierarchy" presents to its follow­the same league as vast Ivy League has only one? Hello! What year did treasure at compound interest,ers is, in fact, a woman. 

universities, but which has only a you say this was? where moths devour and thieves moderate-sized campus to support. And what about our poor de­break in and steal? Let's spend it
PAULPRIBAZ 
No countless departments and de­partments? A dozen more professor today.
Senior 

gree programs, no city taxes, no slots, please! Why not? We can Josh Ozersky is a graduate student
Grace Hall 

elaborate satellite programs and off-afford them. And while we're at it, in history . 

AS SOME OF YOU MAY KNOta I'VE 5PfNT TH& tl/&t:.K ?UR­VC.YING OUTAT TH& MANION PLAC£. TH£ FO/...K5 I (JJORJ< FOR ARE HOPING TO DE­Vf/..OP IT INTO '30M&­
THINGQU!T~ 
fJ/£ PROP07& TO BUIW A FI&W OF OR£".AM5, ACTVAUtA ti/HOl£ UIORJ,D OF DRMM5' !2QOCO SQ. FT. OF 6HOPP6R5'PARA­/ D/5&1 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
BUT YOUR 5£1.£[­T/ON 5TINK5, &0/ 1.-HTH&MAN 5PMKi 
• QUf.llE OF THE DAY 
''weare not fighting for 
integration, nor are we fighting for separation. We are fighting for recognition as human beings." 
-Malcolm X 

-------~~ ----~ 
~------­

September 22, 1994 :ACCENT  page 8  



Courtesy of Notre Dame Folk Choir  
The Tulia Pipe Band led the Notre Dame Folk Choir into their town while the group toured Ireland.  




Folk Choir parades through Ireland 
By THOMAS KANE to town was the genuine inter­Werner said. This is in contrast Accent Writer est and hospitality shown by the to the English, who during their town's people. occupation of Ireland "tried to 
The people of Tulla, like "There was a terrific bonding eradicate Irish culture." those of most of Ireland, were between the students and The sentiment held by the more than a little happy to see town's people," said Werner. Irish for their music can be the Notre Dame Folk Ch ~i_r This bond was strengthened by overwhelming. On one stop in when they made a visit th1s the fact that the choir was pro­the tour the choir sang on the summer. vided with room and board by steps of the residence of Bishop 
You see, it is not everyday host families in each town they Harty. Harty, the head of the that a town shuts down all busi­visited. Irish Church Committee for re­ness and throws a bagpipe wel­These Irish families not only forming the liturgy, was driven come parade through the heart shared their homes with their to tears by the hymns the choir of downtown. visitors from the states, they sang in a Gaelic tongue. 
But then again, in a country shared a Jove of Irish folk mu­so Catholic that the symbol of sic. "This was a wonderful mo­the National Radio Company What makes Irish folk music ment of one country speaking (NTR) is the Cross of Saint so distinctive, so moving that it to another," noted Werner. Bridget, and a country that has can capture the spirits of a Another memorable moment been actively reviving its musi­whole town? came in the Limerick after a cal heritage since Vatican II, concert for the school children. such an outpouring of emotion "[Irish Music] has very lyri­The choir was mobbed by 400 is not surprising. cally pleasing melody lines kids seeking autographs, and 
"The choir has quite a follow­which have an arch to them...it who even chased after their ing in Ireland," said Folk Choir is like a lullaby," said Steve bus. director Steve Werner, who this Werner. "I won't forget this moment," summer returned to Ireland The instruments used in this said Werner. with the choir for the fourth type of music , the flute, Irish The people of Notre Dame time since 1988. Ever since harp, violin, tin whistle and will get a taste of this folk gaining exposure by performing bodhran (similar to a drum) music this Saturday when the on national radio several years give it a captivating sound. choir gives a concert to benefit ago, receptions such as the one "[Some] of it's like the music Catholic House in South Bend. in Tulla, a town of 1200, have you'd hear at an Irish The concert, to be held at 7 been common. "The name of pub...deep and muzzled sound," p.m. in the Brothers Chapel of the choir goes before us [since] said Father Gaughin, who Holy Cross College, will feature we've been on NTR," said likened the sound to American not only Irish music, but also Werner. bluegrass music. "It has real African and Hispanic rhythms, 
The ties between the real drive and pulse...like bluegrass as well as traditional American Irish and the Notre Dames music with a fiddle," said hymns. Fighting Irish are more than Gaughin. "There is always a real vari­name deep. "There has been a ety ... spiritual music performed tremendous interchange [of While Irish sacred music has accapella as well as music with music] between the Irish and just recently enjoyed a revival, the full ensemble," said Notre Dame," Werner said. thanks to groups such as the Gaugh in. 
events" that the folk choir has This summer's Ireland trip
According to Werner , this Chieftans, its roots go back While the choir performs ev­
been involved in. In the last differed from previous trips in
musical exchange started in hundreds of years to pre­ery Sunday at the 11:45 a.m.
three years the choir has per­its diversity. Most of the towns
1963 when the mass went from Christian Ireland and the Celtic mass in the Basilica, their con­
formed for the National visited were new stops on the
Latin to English and the music (pronounced 'Keltic') people. cert appearances are few and
Conference of Bishops, as well tour, and small towns "not even
had to similarly adapt. "We ac­And for the Celtic, a people who far between. 
as the International Federation on the map" (places such as
tually brought their music back "saw the hand of the Creator in "We don't do many con­
of Catholic Universities. They Longfoot and Innis). as well as
to them," Werner said. all of creation," the inspiration certs...in fact we hardly every
also had the honor of perform­large cities such as Limerick
Besides performing Irish fol,k for the music often came from do them," said Robinson. 
ing for the Pope at the World were performance sites for the
music , the choir also presented nature, said Werner. 
Youth Day in Colorado last group, said Father Gaughin. 
workshops on "the Irish style of Making Saturday's free con­
year, said member Anne Marie
liturgical music, the 'listory of Some Christian hymns, for cert even more notable is the
Sal en. The tour of Ireland gave the
the choir and its vision and mis­example, originated from the fact that it will be an alumnae
choir a view of the real Ireland, 
sion," said Father Tom Celtic ritual of the "turf fire," in reunion for Steve Werner's
According to choir co-presi­not the one presented in a trav­
Gaughin, Folk Choir member which women would consecrate choir members from the last
dent, Jenny Robinson, while the el guide. 
and chaplain. the sustaining fire by breathing 15 years.
Ireland trip cost each choir "People think Ireland is very life back into the coals, Werner "This concert will be specialmember $500, the cost was postcardish...in fact there is a
Gaughin joined the choir said. The influence of the sun because of the alumni,"
somewhat reduced by profits lot of poverty ... we sang in some
made up of 47 undergraduates, worshipping Celts can even be Robinson said. 
made from the sale of the nice places, as well as some not
graduate and priests in 1991 seen in the cross of Ireland,
group's tapes such as, "Mass on nice places," said Werner, who
after "I just got bitten by the with its distinctive circular ring With a home football game
the Feast of Saint Patrick," recalled one city with such a
[musical] bug." representing this life-giving this weekend, the returning
"Holy Women," and their most bad crime rate that it had the
This year's Ireland trip is just celestial body. alumnae choir members will at
recent recording, "Candeled dubious nickname 'stab city.' 
the latest in what Father "Christianity built upon and least be greeted by an Irish
Season." What was constant from town
Gaughin terms "a nice string of embraced Celtic society," Guard, if not bagpipe parade. 

·~

ACCENT
September 22, 1994 page9 
• Music Review 
Natural Born Killers: The lutura or movie scores 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Criric 
Many movies release soundtracks and a few even release a CD of the movie's score, the music that is played in the background as the film progresses. It is almost as if the producers of the CD's are afraid to mesh the pop songs that usually appear during the moments not containing dialogue with the classical music that fills conversations, builds tension, and sets mood. 
Enter Trent Reznor. That tattered, afflicted genius behind Nine Inch Nails took snippets, clips, samples, and full songs, mixed them with corresponding or not so corresponding parts of Oliver Stone's movie, Natural Born Killers and then released it on an lnterscope CD. The only unfortunate circumstance of the CD is, unlike other soundtracks, the music does not make as much sense (especially the parts with movie dialogue tossed in) unless the listener has seen the movie. However, once the powerful and brillant movie has been ex­perienced, the soundtrack's purpose becomes much clearer. 
Although Reznor's own music has taken industrial rock to another level and accurately portrays the intense pain which seems to rule his entire existence, this disc is his most timeless accomplish­ment. The no-holds-barred attitude he takes with the music of Natural Born Killers is the future of scores. No longer should movie-goers have their intelli­gence insulted by light, breezy strings to suggest a funny moment or deep, brood­ing sounds to say, "Oh no, our heroes are in trouble!" 
It is ironic that such a talented and visionary musician should reach this height by using other people's music. Thankfully, he had the courage as well as the modesty to shop around and dis-·~ cover the best possible grooves he could come up with, rather than just trying to 
Republicans 
•


organ1ze at SMC 
By SHEilA DElANEY Accent Wrirer 
The interest of political awareness and getting students involved is one of the important issues of the newly established Republican club at Saint Mary's, according to club presldent Brandee Carlson. 
Encouraging others to register to vote, discussing current events, health care panel discussions and inviting guest speakers are other important plans the club will undertake this year. 
Advisor Claude Renshaw of the 
Business department met with the 
present officers of the Republican club 
last spring and decided ·that it would 
be a good idea to start the club this 
year. 
The current officers are Carlson~ 
President, Anne Hurley~l(jd~ 
President/ Secretary, and Jari~~n 
Gillig-Treasurer. · ··· ···.·· 
A visit to the White House, the 
Capital, the F.B.I., and dinner W!tl). 
alumnae in the Washington area are. 
all scheduled for the club's fall break 
trip to Washington D.C.. 
Members .of the club are vol­
unteering for campaign publicity and 
phone calls for the elections hi 
November. 
Currently the club is selling $1 raffie 
tickets for the Notre Dame vs. Airforce 
game and other fundraisers ate 
underway. 


Mississippi Heat brings blues to campus 
invent his own. It is the 90's, the era of sampling, and anything is fair game these days. 
For example, Mallory Knox's (Juliette Lewis) visions of the future are set on top of the first few notes of the Cowboy JUrikies version of "Sweet Jane," one of the most beautiful songs ever sung by one of the most beautiful voices ever to sing, Margo Timmins. This version has always completely outclassed the Velvet Underground's quasi-humorous original. 
L7 is another band who receives the Reznor touch. "S--list," formerly a 
ByPAITI CARSON 
Saini Mary's Accent Editor 
Mississippi Heat is hailed as "Chicago's hottest new blues band," No pun is intended. 
The group, whose music is rooted in the 1950's blues band sound. recently performed at the Chicago Blues Festival, and tonight, Mississippi Heat will be performing in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College at 7:30p.m. 
The band has recorded two albums, "Straight From the Heart" and "Learned the Hard Way," since its formation two years ago. Both albums reflect the ensemble approach of Muddy Watters and Little Walter. 
Members of the gifted sextet come from diverse backgrounds, but they share a deep love for blues music. Bandleader Pierre Lacocque and his brother Michel, who is the group man­ager, fell in love immediately with the sound of blues music upon being intro­duced to it. This introduction came in 1969, when the Lacocque family moved from Belgium to Chicago. 
Pierre has taken a sabbatical from his job as a psychologist at Harper College in Palatine to play his harmonica with Mississippi Heat. 
According to Chicago Blues magazine, Deitra Farr, the group's lead singer, sings with "a voice that is warm and airy, with just enough earth." 
"The strength of her presence and the quality of her voice massage the mes­sages into your consciousness, rather than hammering them into your brain," said Niles Frantz of Chicago Blues. 
Farr and Lacocque combine their tal­good song becomes a raucous anthem of intensity after seeing the movie. The raw fury of the music, the brick wall of solid guitar, and the lyrics of complete abandon come together in Stone and Reznor's world to create a monument of power. 
A slice of rockabilly is dished through "Drums a go go," recorded in 1965 by the Hollywood Persuaders. Along with the fast-paced beat and exciting bass groove, the haunting organ provide impetus to understand the wonders of the desert where the movie takes place. 
"Waiting for the Miracle" opens the movie with a musical vignette of a coarse and bleak wasteland, sung by none other than Mr. Baritone, Leonard Cohen; his sleepy vocals seep through the notes eerily, recreating images of the chilling first scenes. 
An excellent collaboration is personi­fied on the track, "Totally Hot." This fea­tures the calypso sounds of "Kipenda Roho" by Remmy Ongala and Orchestre Super Matimila spliced with the utterly preposterous"fans on the street" who declare the serial killers as underground heroes. 
Another exciting collaboration is on the track, "Sex is Violent." Mallory is attempting to seduce a cop who has come to visit in her jail cell, while the experimental jazz of Jane's Addiction's "Ted Just Admit It" float lazily in the background. Perry Farrell's gloating seems to put him in the cell with the two others. "Nothing's shocking," he hums with giddy nonchalance. 
Also from that cell-scene is Mallory Knox's isolated a capella, "Born Bad," written by Cissie Cobb. This song's meaning lies solely in the context of the movie. Her scratchy voice sounds sur­prisingly gorgeous in the setting intend­ed. 
The unity of the sound is shown through its emotion. Even though Reznor has selected music from many different times and genres, each is intense on its own, let alone when added to the scenes of Natural Born Killers. In this age when video is king, there should be more movies daring enough to shamelessly convey the moods their audiences are subjected to. 


ents with those of bassist Bob Stroger and drummer Allen Kirk. Kirk formu­lated a musical lineup that includes "the versatile" James Wheeler and Billy Flynn as guitarists. 
Pierre Lacocque told Chicago Blues 
· that Mississippi Heat is "like a family" to him. Lacocque said, "We're very at­tached to each other. We are on an adventure, all of us. We go through dif­ficult times, too. But we're chipping in together. There's warmth beyond the bandstand." Chicago Tribune's Bill Dahl questioned the band about the origin of its interest­ing name. "We always had an attraction to the Delta blues, and I was looking for a name that wasn't too common," said Lacocque. "The harmonica is also called the Mississippi saxophone," he 

Courtesy of Saint Mary's Special Events 
-. 
added. 
The band's first singer, Robert Covington, came from Mississippi. Lacocque made the comment in The Chicago Tribune that the word "heat" in the band's name is self-explanatory. 
"The concert is being presented in col­laboration with radio station 88.1, WVPFJFM," according to Dennis Andres, Director of Special Events at Saint Mary's College. "The band may be tap­ing portions of the concert," Andres added. 
Tickets for tonight's concert are $2 for students, $5 for adults and $4 for senior citizens. Members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community pay $3. Tickets may be purchased at the Saint Mary's College box office in O'Laughlin Auditorium between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. 
' 
Thursday, September 22, 1994 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
....__N_O_T_IC_E_s_ __.l 
USED TEXTS CHEAPIIII 
Buy & sell used books at the only 
hip place in town 1 0-6M-SJ9..3Sun 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 
ND ave & Howard St 233-2342 

PAPA JOHN'S is HIRING I -delivery & inside personnel -flexible schedule -top pay -1 0-40 hour schedules available -112 price pizza -EOE caii27H1n 
Downtown Book Wholesaler needs clerical &/or warehouse workers flexible schedule & wkend work 232-8500 X22 ask for Bryan 
Lesbian & Gay Activities Night 7:30pm tonight same place Q-Une: 28Hi665 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Set of keys on a blue ND ID holder, with 10, driver's license, ATM card, and others. If found please call 634-1532 or 634-1 815 
FOUND: Bracelet in DeBartolo; call Susan 2n-1724 
WANTED 

EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! SELL 8 TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS & PRICESI BAHAMAS, CANCUN, JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT RESUME EXPERIENCE! HlQO.. 678-63861 
RESORT JOBS-Earn to $12/hr. + tips. Theme Parks, Hotels, Spas, & more. Tropical & Mountain destina­tions worldwide. Call (206)632-0150 ext. R55841 
WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO­MOTE SPRING BREAK TO JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE TRAVEUCOMMISSIONSI SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-n10. 

Learn About the latest in computer and presentation technology. Work part time with us inviting business customers to our open houses held throughout Indiana. Call219-674-5973 8-5 M-F Ask for Drew or Tom 
BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR ONE­HOUR AM EXERCISE CLASSES. PAID POSITION PLUS FREE EXERCISE MEMBERSHIP. CALL 2n-0111 FOR MORE INFO. 
***SPRING BREAK 95*** 
America's #1 Spring Break 
Company! Cancun, Bahamas, 
Daytona & Panama! 110% Lowest 
Price Guarantee! Organize 15 
friends and TRAVEL FREE! Earn 
highest commissions! (800)32­
TRAVEL 
••••• NEEDED!!! ***** WE NEED MAYA ANGELOU TICK­ETS!! CALL WITH YOUR PRICE. LAURA X2145 OR X2114. 
HELP WANTED: 
ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER 
ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS 
NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND 
ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY 
NEWS SERVICES, 
232-3205 OR 288-9361. 
SKI RESORT JOBS -Hiring for many positions for winter quarter. Over 15,000 openings! For more information call: (206)634-0469 ext. V55841 
I need someone to type my law school apps. Have experience and a little time? Please call Jennifer 272-8563 
PIZZA MAKER -PART TIME ­
EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD 
MONEY. 
CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW 
YORK 
257-1100. 
NEED A ROOMMATE? CALL 255­2143. 

1....._F_O_R_RE_N_T_ __, 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO 
NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­nJ-2034 
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & BREAKFAST-Historic Home, quiet setting, 4 guest rooms, shared baths. 20 minutes to campus. 
616-695-6321. 
Parents, Alums, need room for games. Comfortable home, walk to campus. 2n-7371 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC 
EVENTS. 219-291-7153. 
1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS 
PROPERTIES. 272-6306 
I Desperately need a roommate or a place to live. call for details. ask for chuck 273-5299 

FOR SALE 

RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR 
FOR ONLY $79 FOR TWO 
SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV­
ERYCALL: COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959. 
486 DX IBM COMPATIBLE COM­PUTER -1 YR NEW $1,200.00 OR BEST OFFER CALL ERIC FOR DETAILS 258-0536 
Tired of walking? CLASSIC 1972 
NOVA, 4 Dr, 61K, Auto, PS, New Tires, Runs Greaat! Some rust, 
$1100, Leave message 299-1774. 
BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS 
CALL COLIN AT 273-6205 
CONDO FOR SALE-Woodbridge­Minutes from NO-end unit on pond­181 nF Stoneridge-2BR+Loft, Fireplace, Att Gar w/Opener­$58,000-Call232-5190. 
Macintosh llsi 5-80 
14" Color Monitor 
$1 000 or best offer 
Kory X1644 
FREE KITTENS-8 weeks old 
call nicole x4544 

TICKETS 

WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU TICKETS. CALL 800-922-2327 JANET. 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. 
272-6551 
4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED. 
CALL X2875 (NICKY) 
WANTED 3 GA EITHER NO VS 
STAN, BYU CALL COL 215-355­
7131 
CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME. I would if I had tick­ets to the Stanford game. Alum REALLY wants to return to campus with family. Student tix ok. Price negotiable. Call collect after 6 pm 
(516) 499-5009. 
HELP! I need 2 TIX to the Stanford Game! Call Patty at 1-800-697-9141, leave message. 
NEEDED: 
TICKETS FOR THE BC GAME. 
CALL LIZ AT 284-5012. 
WANTED: BYU GA'S WILL PAY 
BIG BUCKS. CALL KRISTEN OR 
KATE@ 27Hl224 
I need 2 PURDUE stud. tix. Call Bill x1862 
I NEED TWO NAVY G.A. 
CALL MIKE X3692 
NEED 3 GAs or STUD. tix for PUR­DUE call Rob x-4333 
I need 2-4 GAs or 1 stud. ticket for any home game! Please call soon! Lindi-284-5151 
Need GA's for Purdue! Call Jeff 
X2174 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR STAN­
FORD GAME SO PARENTS 
CAN SEE FIRST ND FOOTBALL 
GAME. CALL MARIANNE X3295 
Need 1 Purdue ticket call Tom 289-3203 
I need BYU GA's and student TIXIIII Please call Chris @ 
x4485. 

I need purdue or stanford GAs. Will pay big $$$. Call Megan 284-5050. 
Help! I need two GA's to BYUII Call TARA at273-388511 
NEED 2 STANFORD GAs WILL PAY BIG$$$$ CALL PAT 273­9760 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 STANFORD TIX Will Trade 4 Navy Tix or Pay Big 
Bucks. Please help me out-Pat x3515 
Need 2 GA's for Purdue, Stanford, & Navy! X1421 
Ticket Trade-I have 2 Navy GA's to trade for 2 Purdue GA's call x3001 Mark 
I Need 4 Purdue Tix Together Will Pay Big $$$! Call Rosie Collect313-668-9952. 
Need 2 Purdue GAs -call Rob @ 
1304 

$$$Help! I need 2 Navy GAs. Please call Lisa at 277-0740. Will pay top dollars.$$$ 
WANTED: 2-6 GA OR STUD. NAVY TIX. CALL LISA 2364. 
PURDUE PURDUE I NEED 2-4 PURDUE GA'S. 
PLEASE CALL ME -PEOPLE COMING FROM CA TO SEE GAMEl HEATHER 4-2688 
NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S $$$ 
CALLX4570 

I NEED YOUR TICKETS! 
SEARCHING FOR TICKETS 
FOR THE PURDUE AND STAN­
FORD GAMES. CALL MATTHEW 
277-3641 

I NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'SI Call Sean 
at X1432. 

Need 2 GA's for Purdue, 1 GA for 
Stanford. Call Sharon 273-8474. 
WANTED GA's for Stanford game. 
288-2589 

Have 2 Navy! Will trade for Purdue or Byul call #4087 
I'M DESPERATE -MY BRO & SIS AND 7 OF THEIR CLOSEST FRIENDS ARE COMING THIS WEEKEND AND I STILL NEED 5 PURDUE STUD. TICKETS. I ALSO NEED 3 STANFORD STUD. KEVIN 273-8699 
Need 1 GA for Stanford -can pay 
$$! Call Scott x3586 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 Purdue TIX stud or GA -John X3586 
Need BYU TIX Will trade Stanford tickets Call Mike at (513)228-3349 
Need 3 GA's for Navy or Air Force; 
make an offer! Paul-277-6433 
Need two Standford GA'sl 
Call Todd x1052 
$$$ $$$ 

Need 1 Stanford stud. orGA Call Nick 289-9708 
NEED 2 GA BYU tix and 2-6 GA 
Stanford tix. Please call Rachael 
at #4667. 

NEED 2 GA's for NAVY & 
NEED 4 GA's for BYU 
CALL Chris x-1353 
I need 2 Stanford GA's x1659 Desi 
Deseperately need 2 st. tix for 
Purdue. Will pay$$$ 4107 Kris 
I NEED PURDUE GA'SII BRIAN X1620 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 PURDUE AND 2 BYU GA'S. WILL PAY $$$$$call Brian@ x1739 
NEED 3 STUDENT STANFORD 
TXTS-X2377. 

HELP! I NEED TIX FOR STAN­FORD. PLEASE CALL MIKE @ X1243 
ND Alums Need Stanfd. GA's Call (313) 420-1208 or (310) 813­5659 
Need only ONE STANFORD ticket Will take anything-BIG MONEY! Please call Diana x4939 
HELPIIII I NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR MY LITTLE BROTHER FOR THE NAVY GAME. I WILL PAY A GOOD PRICE. CALL ANYTIME. ERIN X4121 
STANFORD! STANFORD! 
Parents need a room? I have Marriott for Fri & Sat. Concierge level-1st class. Jim 634-1745 
NEED 2 PURDUE GAsl NO grad needs 2 GAs for fiancee's 1st NO game. Jim 634-1745 
Will Trade 2 STAN for 2 FSU Call Karen X4290 
Long lost family and friends coming for STANFORD game! Desperately need 7tixl Call Donald x1844. 
FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL 
HOME GAMES. 272-7233. 
LOOKING TO TRADE: 
1 PURDUE GA 
FOR 1 STANFORD GA 
CALL TJ x1130 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL PAT AT 1645. 
HELPIII need !STANFORD TICK­ET (preferably student) Please call Wendy at x2915 
PURDUE TIX AVAILABLE. WILL 
TRADE 2 PURDUE GAs FOR 2 
STANFORD GAs. 272-9248 AFTER 5. 
***NEED 4 NAVY GAs*** 
***DAVID x3406 

FLYING OUT FROM CALIFORNIA -DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA TICKETS TO STANFORD GAME! (916)671-3299 KEVIN 
SELL Student Ticket PURDUE Call Olga 634 -4575 
* Need 1 BYU GA 

• Call Campbell at x1441 
Need 4 Purdue Tix Std./GA Andy 289-3736 
I Need 3-4 Purdue GA's Call Jon x1620 
2 married stud books or separate 4 sale. 2730673 
Family flying from ALASKA for 1st 
ND game. Need 4 BYU ticks., stu. 
or G.A. PLEASE! Call shannon 
291-6288 

NEEDED IMMEDIATELY: 2 GAs 
FOR BYU. WILL PAY TOP$$$! 
CALL MARY AT 273-2926 
I NEED PURDUE GA'SI WILL PAY $$CONTACT LA AT 284-5132 
Need 1 Purdue and 1 Air Force GA. Call Mike at 4-3326. 
HavePurd Stud Tix for Sale Call Pat at277-5176 
We NEED 3 Stanford GAs! From 
Calif, here to visit daughter. Call 
Ed or JoAnn at (310) 547-52951 
NEED TIX-5 BYU GA'S, 4 STAN­
FORD GA'S -Call Joe @ x2765 
Need 2 STANFORD GA's 
Please call Curtis -282-2197 
1 purdue stud. ticket for sale 
call matt @ 287-1449 
NEED ONE STANFORD ST OR 
GA. CALL KIM X3698. 
Beautiful and desperate 
Mormons need 3 BYU Tickets. 
Call x2703. 

I NEED STANFORD AND FLA ST GAs-WILL PAY$ OR WILL TRADE SEVERAL STUD TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME CHRIS 1-6696 
$$$$$$$$ 

NEED ONE PURDUE GA OR 
STUD TIX CALL MARC 233-4008 
$$$$$$$ NEtD FSU TIX SUSAN 2771724 

NEED STANFORD STUD. TlX CALL 234-8958. 
NEED STANFORD GA'S MATT 257-0564 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS 
CALL CHRIS 4-3095 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA-WILL PAY BIG BUCKS-CHRIS 4-3095 
•Only need 1 Stanford GA ticket• Needed ASAP Call Dan @ x1044 
FOR SALE: 3 STUD. PU TIX. 289-9420. 
WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD 
AND/OR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR BOSTON COLLEGE. CALL AFTER 5 PM 684-1304. 
NO FAMILY REUNION needs Stanford TX. TOP DOLLAR. Call 517-332-4719. 
TO TRADE -8 (6 TOGETHER) STANFORD FOR FSU. CHRIS OR ED BULLE IT 800-786-8723. 
NEED 1 MICH. 4 PUR., 
+ 2 STAN. STUD TIX. CALL 234-8958. 

I need 2 GA's for the Navy GameiCall Ryan at 3333. 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S CALL SUZV AT 4072 
FOR SALE: 2 STD ticket booklets (or just individual games) and 2 Married Student booklets (or just games) No ID required. Call Sean al634-1101 
Need GAs Any Home Game 4-3703 
Wanted 2 or 3 GA's together for BYU 10/15 or Air Force 11/19 Call Lara 219/273-8961 
NEED STANFORD GA's X4-2193 
Need Stnfrd stdnt or GA tixs, call Chris x1197 
HELP! Need 2 GA or studs for 
BYU. KATE@2732 
I need Purdue GA's. Call Eric at 232-8337 
Please! I need 4 NAVY GAs and 
2 STANFORD GAs! Mary Beth x4220 
Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call 
Sue at277-8995 
Help! I need two Stanford GA's call Jen at 273..()741 
I need 4 Navy GA's please! Ill 
Mark x1640 
ND Family Reunion 
Need 4-6 STANFORD GA's Family has airfare, now we need 
tickets!! Call x3650 
I NEED 2 BYU GA'S 
I HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S 
WILL TRADE OR BUY 
call chris x3913 
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE AND 
STANFORD! CALL BOB *1233 
I have 1 AFOrce GA thai I want to 
trade for a Purdue GA 
Call Chris X4358 
Need GAs for Purdue. 
Call Pat 4622. 
Need 2 STANFORD GAs for dad 
and bro. TOP $$! Anna x2286. 
Need 2 STANFORD GAs 
Call Chris x3767 
Need 4 GA Stanford tix. Will trade 2 GA Purdue tix plus cash. Call Jim @ 312-281-5779. 
NEED 8 STANFORD TICKETS. 
CALL GRANT 416-865-7741. 
WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'S FOR 2 BYU GA'S. CALL SIGI AT 312-477-3357. 
I NEED ONE AIR FORCE TICKET­GA OR STUDENT. PLEASE CALL X3816. THANKS! 
I NEED 2 GAs FOR MY PARENTS FOR PURDUE OR STANFORD... PLEASE CALL TOM AT 271-9576. THANKS! 
I need 2 or 4 PURDUE GA's call Molly 271-9364 
SELLING BOOKLETS. LUIS 2731528 
HELP ME! NEED 3 STANFORD GAs BADLVI CALL DREW 232­3769 
I NEED 2 PURDUE TIX. GA's or girl's stud. BRIAN P. 273-8553 
I NEED 1 GA for NAVY. VERY IMPORTANT! Brian 273-8553 
NEED one stud. ticket 4 Purdue! HELP! Kathleen 2567 
Need 2 PU GAs Will trade 2 Navy GAs call x4289 
Help! Need 6 BYU std. tix for brothers and friends from Arkansas who are desperate to experience life on the outside! I I Call Beth x4841 
Help! I need two Stanford Student tix or GA's. My alum brother is fly­ing in from California and will lock me in the closet (like he did when we were kids) if I don't have tix for him! Please help! Cyndi 284-5322. 
NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S. CALL AARON X3460. 
2 PURDUE STUD. TIX SALE $30 EACH Call Marie at X-4917 
NAVY GA'S (2) for SALE I TRADE Need 2 for any home game, and 7 for Air Force. Matt-x1790 or 3744 
NEED 2 BYU GA TIX & WILL PAY BIG BUCKS SO CALL ME 1722 
ND Alum Needs 2 STANFORD GAs, BIG$$! Call217-337-6862 
Needed 2 GA for BYU !111!!1! Call Ryan x3662. 
I need 2 ga's to Purdue and Stanford. Mike 289-3203 
WANTED: 2 GA's for 10/15 or 10/29. Call287-3909 
Help, need 1 stanford stu. or GA call Matt X4327 
Need 1 Purdue stu. tick. shannon 291-6288 
need 1 GA for BYU, AIR FORCE or NAVY! call ann x4544 
need 6 GAs for Navy call paul x3591 
NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR STAN­FORD--& -1 STUDENT TICKET FOR BYU -CALL JENNIE 272­0108 
FOR SALE: 2 Purdue GA's. 
273-9838. 
I need 4 Stanford GA's Call 234-1139 
Need 1 stanford tix desperately! ! Call Eileen at x4086 to negotiate! 
Elp-hay! 1-hay eed-nay oo-tay An­ford-stay ickets-tay!! All-cay lkki­nay at-hay X4081. 
Need 2 Navy GA's. Call287-1953 
NEED 4 STANFORD ST. T\X HEATHER x2580 


PERSONAL 
Seamaisin at The Midway Tavern, Mishawaka, Every Thursday 
Play Ultimate! 
Quality Copies, Quickly!!! 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
Happy Birthday Julie Bopp! Wish I could be at IU to celebrate with you. Love ya hon! -Farts in her sleep. 
Hey Donna Lynn! 
Happy 20th from Down Under 
Wish I could celebrate with you. 
Drink a few for me. Miss you Poop. 
Love, Bakes XOXO. 
To the D.O.C. :let 'da Big Dog roam!!! 
disgruntled pants 

------------------~·-9-·--------~-----------~------------------------------~--------------­
Thursday, September 22, 19;94 
The Observer • SPORTS page 11 Gordon. "We couldn't have ex­trol in the waning minutes of
Fall game for Belles antes ecuted any better." the half on Doty's first touch­
Both teams jumped off to suc­down pass of the evening. Holy
continued from page 16
By MISSY LIND players. The singles players cessful starts as No.1 ranked Michael took the handoff from 
Sporrs Writer are: no. 1 Kozacik, no. 2 Ayres, possession on a short run by
no. 3 Jennifer Kelley, no. 4 The Saint Mary's tennis team Nora Slusar, no. 5 Nancy Lanny Lee. 
will begin their season this fall Waibel, and no. 6 Jennifer The Purple People Eaters with a series of "ftrsts". In the · Brahler. were unable to convert on the point after, and it initially
past, Saint Mary's had just The doubles teams consist of: been listed as another consid­no.l Ayres and Hrycko, no. 2 looked like it would come back 
eration when the primary rank­Kozacik and Brahler, and no.3 to haunt them. Just before ings come out in December. intermission, Angel tailback
Slusar and Kate Marhoefer. 
This year, coach Katie Cromer The Belles are looking for­Lissa Sheldon received a pitch created a fall season for one ·from quarterback Karen
ward to their fall season be­
Wallace and sprinted to the
purpose alone, to get ranked. cause it will give them a chance 
The Belles will take on endzone to knot the game at 6­
to get the recognition they de­
Valparaiso University, in their serve, accoording to Cromer. It 6. A successful conversion gave frrst fall match ever, this after­also gives them extensive prac­the Angels a one point ad­vantage and their ftrst lead in
noon at 3:00 in Valparaiso. ticing time for the more intense 
Kate Kozacik will lead the spring season. two years. However, PW's de­team in the singles bracket, fense was able to shut down the 
"I feel very confindent with 
while Andrea Ayres and Robin Angel offense the rest of the
this· team," said Cromer. "It has 
Hrycko lead the doubles brack­evening, and that proved to be
a balence of experience and 
the difference in the game. 
et. new players and there is so The Belles are made up of five much improvement in the re­"Our defense was excellent as returning players, and five new turning players." unit," said PW coach John 
YOUR VOTE WILL COUNT ON NOV. 81 
SO BE SURE TO REGISTER TO VOTE: 
10:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. & 4:30 p.m. to 7:00p.m. Wednesdav (9/21) and Thursdav (9/22) 
NORTH AND SOUTH DINING HALLS 
Notre Dame Student Coordinators of Leone for State Senate Committee: Ann Goodwin, Molly Lajoie & Kari Husain Saint Mary's Coordinator: Jennifer Dillman 
For further information call: 272-1968 or 271-0469 
Ad Proudly Paid For ud Sp01rored By: LEONE FOR STATE SENATE COMMITTEE, Dennis Dillman ud Georgmne Whelan, Co-Trusurm 

and defending champion PW was able to pick up right where they left off last season. In ad­dition, Knott put forth a solid effort in its season opener after going winless last season. If Wednesday's game was any indication, Knott and PW have much to look forward to in the remainder of the season. 
PE 14, Farley 6 
Pasquerella East was able to keep up with rival PW in the race for the Interhall title by defeating Farley 14-6 in the fi­nal game of opening night. 
PE quarterback Kristen Doty opened the season in fme fash­ion by throwing two touchdown passes to lead the powerful Pyro offense past a stingy Farley defense. Receiver Charo · Gonzales caught the second of 
Doty's TD passes and subse­
quently grabbed the conversion 
pass from Doty to help lead the 
No. 2 ranked Pyros to victory. 
The two teams were locked in 
a 0-0 tie for most of the first 
half before PE fmally took con-Doty on the conversion and gal­loped into the endzone to give the Pyros the 7-0 lead. PE upped its lead to 14-0 early in the second half as Doty and Gonzales connected on a pair of well designed pass plays. 
Farley was able to cut the lead to 14-6 when wideout Sheila Riesenberg caught a beautiful pass from quarter­back Joanna Parsons and dashed to the endzone to com­plete a play worthy of highlight film exposure. 
The conversion attempt was no good, and the Pyro defense was able to put the clamps on the Farley offense for the remainder of the game. Coach Tim Shannon gave credit to both sides of the ball in the Pyro victory. 
"It was a total team effort," he said. "We showed great com­posure and played well both offensively and defensively." 
Both teams looked strong in their season opener and have an excellent shot at making 'a run at the Interhall football title in 1994. 
•-•flla;t 

Will your company grow as fast as you do? 
Almost every company's recruiting ad promises you rapid growth. But before making any decisions, ask them how fast they're growing. After all, you're going to have trouble moving up if your company isn't. 
Over the last five years, while economic conditions have stalled many organiza­

tions, Andersen Consulting grew on the average of 20% per year. 
Compare that figure to any other firm you're con­sidering. It could be the difference between getting ahead. And banging your head. 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.. S.C. 
Andersen Consulting will be conducting screening interviews on Thur~day, October 6 -Friday, October 7. Please see Career and Placement Serv1ces office for details. To learn more about us, please stop by at our Andersen . Consulting Career Day on Friday, September 23 from 8:30 am -5:00 pm m the La Fortune Ballroom. Casual attire is appropriate. 

··--~-~~-~--------~--------­
~--.._......------------~----~----.-~ 
page 12 

The Observer • SPORTS 
MEN'S 

FOOTBALL 
• PREDICTED fiNISH 
BLUE DIVISION 
1. 
Stanford 

2. 
Keenan 

3. 
Off-Campus 

4. 
Morrissey 

5. 
Flanner 

6. 
Dillon 

7. 
Grace 


GOLD DIVISION 
1. 
Fisher 

2. 
Zahm 

3. 
St. Ed's 

4. 
Alumni 

5. 
Carroll 

6. 
Sarin 





standout will power Alumni's attack on both sides of the ball as line­backer and tight end. 
1. Chris Hammond-After a year 4. Randy Swatland-lf the junior abroad, the two-time Zahm MVP quarterback can control the Zahm returns to quarterback a strong Off­offense, the rabid bats could returnCampus team. 

to their glory days. 
2. Dan Mcglnty-As one of the best 5. Chris Polllna-With Pollina step­receivers in the league, the senior ping up into the vacated tailback will try and help Fisher take that final spot this year, the studs could go all step. 

the way. 
3. Mike Denvir-The sophomore 

UN DON DEDIOS EN MEDIO NUESTRO (A gift from God in our midst) 
"There are no Mexicans here! I don't fit in at Notre Dame." Back in 1982 I remember hearing these words from a Mexican American friend. Numerically speaking he had a point, though I was puzzled as to why he felt so alienated. I remember telling him, "But I don't see you as different. And everyone likes having you here." My words had little effect. 
Twelv~ years later I find myself at Notre Dame, a Holy Cross priest working with Hispanic students through Campus Ministry. This past Sunday found me presiding at a Spanish Mass in St. Ed's, and hosting the "Hispanic Student Night" at LaFortune Sunday evening. My friend would have been heartened to have heard Fr. Tim Scully point out, in his address at La Fortune, that Hispanics now comprise nearly 1Oo/o of our student population, almost a So/o increase in the last five years. 
Notre Dame is being enriched by a culture that is rather new to us here, but which has been in this country longer than any other European culture. Spaniards and their descendants have been in the Southeast and Southwest since the late sixteenth century. Currently the United States ranks fifth among the world's Spanish-speaking countries. Only Mexico, Spain, Argentina, and Colombia have more Hispanics. 
Hispanic students bring with them a culture that is unique in its reverential love for 
family life, its marvelous sense of community celebrated through fiesta, a deeply 
rooted Catholicism, an authentic and consistent devotion to Mary, and a common 
language spoken with many different accents. 
At the same time they bring great diversity. Of the roughly 570 Hispanics at Notre 
Dame, So/o hail from Latin America, representing fourteen different countries. The 
remaining number come from almost every state in the Union. All have distinct 
racial origins, color, history and experience. 
Notre Dame is playing a pivotal role in shaping their futures. Many of the students I talked to are very happy to be here. But they agree that Notre Dame is not doing enough. They point out that most Hispanics in the U.S. live at or near the poverty level. They are severely under-represented at the decision-making levels in both church and society. Only 40% graduate from high school. In the U.S. Catholic school system they account for only 9% of the student population. Higher education is critical in reversing this situation. Notre Dame can and should recruit more Hispanics, and must become more committed to providing scholarship money to qualified students. 
As a Notre Dame family, we are asked to warmly welcome our Hispanic brothers and sisters, and to take a personal interest in their culture, history, and experience. We should not expect them to just "be like us" who represent the mainstream in America. We should not assume that they will simply "fit in" at a university very different from their lived experience. Certainly we share a Catholic faith, but 
BLUE DIVISION 
MORRISSEY 
Last year, the Morrissey Manorites rolled all over their opponents to a 7-0 season that culminated in a win at the stadium and the coveted Gold pants. Their Morrissey Mystique defense didn't give up a single point until the playoffs. This year looks to be a different story for the rebuilding Manor. With their roster depleted of experienced players by Off-Campus and graduation, Morrissey looks to rebuild with fresh faces. 
"We lost a lot of people from last year," says co-captain Aveline Verceles. "We only have two returning starters on offense, and three on defense. " 
Dave Powell and safety Sean Wilson will be the anchors of the defensive squad. Morrissey will feature a methodical, ball­control offense. 
DILLON 
Last year, Dillon's interhall football squad went 2-3. This year, captain Zach Budzichowski is hoping for better results from a squad composed primarily of under­classmen. 
One underclassman who will figure into Dillon's plans is sophomore quarterback Stefan Molina. When Molina's not handing off to sophomore running back Pete Meyer, he'll be throwing to tight end Jay Sullivan or wide receiver Kenny Ellzy. 
With the skill positions set, Dillon still has unanswered questions up front, primari­ly due to a lack of size. 
Thursday, September 22, 1994 
"If we don't get a series of first downs, we won't do well," says Farmer. "We aren't going to spring the big plays." 
Tailback John Goetz will anchor the run­ning game. He's a solid runner, but his durability and toughness over the grind of an entire season are question marks. The offense will be run by sophomore quarter­back John Polk, who will use his strong arm to get the ball to a trio of possession receivers, Verceles. Josh Burick, and Mark Nicholson.Aiso seeing time at quarterback will be freshman Greg Dohrmann, who is nursing an aching groin. 
Although Morrissey has a lost a lot of experience, they feel they can still put up a good defense of their championship. 
"If we make the playoffs. I think this team has accomplished a lot." says Verceles. 
-NEIL ZENDER 
"We're just hurting for size," commented Budzichowski. "I'm quite concerned." 
Some of the 15 freshmen on Dillon's squad may see action, but Budzichowski is concerned about them as well. 
"We'll have to convince them that in­terhall football games are not like high school," remarked Budzichowski. "That may be our biggest obstacle. 
Budzichowski also has concerns about his defense, which did not live up to his expectations in a scrimmage on Sunday. He'll find out more about his defense and his team when Dillon opens play this week­end. 
-JEFF COX 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Catholicism abhors, by its very universality, assimilation and sameness. As the U.S. Bishops state in their 1983 Pastoral Letter on Hispanic Ministry: 
"Respect for culture is rooted in the dignity of 
people made in God's image. The Church shows its esteem 
for this dignity by working to ensure that pluralism, 
not assimilation and uniformity, is the guiding 
principle in the life of communities in both the ecclesial 
and secular societies. All of us in the Church should 
broaden the embrace with which we greet our Hispanic 
brothers and sisters and deepen our commitment to them." ") 
In Campus Ministry we are trying to "broaden the embrace" through our weekly Spanish Mass, through the "Coro Primavera" choir, through retreats, and through a Wednesday night drop-in at the Hesburgh Library. We are working with the Center for Social Concerns, H.A.O., and La Casa de Amistad to develop a mentoring program for at-risk Hispanic youth in South Bend. We will also offer with the 
C.S.C. an immersion experience/seminar at a Holy Cross parish in Monterey, Mexico over Christmas break. Much more can be done. 
We recognize how gifted Notre Dame is to have a growing Hispanic presence on campus. The Hispanic leaders of tomorrow, in business, in politics, in the Church, are here now at this University. Notre Dame has an unparalleled opportunity to 
form and shape the future of the Hispanic community. 
Perhaps when my friend sends his son or daughter to this place, he/she, unlike their 
father, will feel very much at home at Notre Dame. 
Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. 

The Twenty-Sixth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. Sept. 24  5:00p.m.  Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C.  
Sun. Sept. 25  8:00a.m.  Rev. George Wiskerschen, C.S.C  
10:00 a.m.  Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C  


-------~--------------·--~ --~~~~~ -~~~~-~~-------------~-----------------, 
Thursday, September 22, 1994 page 13 
KEENAN OFF-CAMPUS 
If there is one team to put your
money on, it would have to be 
Off-Campus.

unusual situation in that it lost its 
entire starting backfield (quarterback, 
tailback, and fullback), so it is obvi­
and tailback Mike Thomson is 
looking pretty good," replied team 
captain Dave Deltore, who was 
again, with a lot of talent coming back 
MVP three years ago himself. 
at other positions. Key returnees 
Let's not look at this team as 
include: Junior captain Rob Rolf, an 
being a cocky bunch of hotshots 
outside linebacker; junior tailback 
yet, the season hasn't even start­
Ben Mitchell; senior cornerback Mark 
ed yet. But give them credit,
Bessette; junior lineman Chris Wolf; 
they've got a bunch of pretty tal­
and sophomore lineman Brendan 
ented players. 

Hughes. 
With a record last year not to 
"The guys have been working real 
smile at the Off-Campus team 
hard," added Hughes. "We're looking 
looks to win a playoff bid that they 
forward to the season. We hope to 
missed out on last year. 
live up to the Keenan tradition by 
returning to the stadium." 
get in the way of the teamwork 
needed to win. But make no mis­
have more size than in the past, and 
take, true champions come 
together when the time comes. 
With an MVP captain who knows 
his stuff and a bunch of experi­
"We have a decent team, and with no 
enced players leading the way,
Off-Campus will be a team to 
reckon with in the blue division. 
to every team we play." The Observer/ Kyle Kusek -B.J. HOOD Keenan's Matt Rechner 
STANFORD 
Building on their second place Cavanaugh, Charlie Algiers. finish last year in the stadium, In the preseason, the Studs were Stanford has been working hard to disappointed with their pertormance make this season equally success­in a scrimmage against Sorin. ful. Captain Chad Smock cites the 
Although the team has fifteen offensive line and the secondary on returning players, the loss of ·their defense as having the necessary best running back has resulted in a talent but still needing to gel as a state of rebuilding with a lot of team. Smock feels the strength of switching positions around. The the team is in its running backs and Studs have a strong defense, and linebackers, making a good running will look to Brett Galley to put a game key to the overall success of hard hit on somebody when need­the team. Additionally, the Stud's ed. OJ") offense, the squad will intense defense will keep them in depend on running back Chris Pol­any game. lina as well as John Mele in a "We expect to work hard, clutch situation. The position with improve over the course of the sea­the greatest depth of talent this son, and hopefully make the play­year will be at quarterback. Mike offs again," commented starting Brown is a good passer who does quarterback Mike Brown. "We've an excellent job of leading the just got to take one game at a 

offense and backing him up will be time." former starting quarterback from 
ZAHM 

It didn't take senior captain Dave Bozanich long to name one strength of the Zahm football team, "We know how to win." Indeed they do, as they went to the stadium in '91 and '92, win­ning the championship in '92. 
They are 11-1-1 in the last two years. However, Zahm had some crucial personnel losses, especially on the line. Nonetheless, Dave is still optimistic about the situation. 
"We're hungry to get our gold pants back, and we'll do what it takes to get them back," added Bozanich. 
Key players inclu.de Bozanich, a tight end and free safety; Sophomore Matt Bundick, a fullback and linebacker; and Rick Rios, a wide receiver and cornerback. 
Other keys on offense include quarterbacks Randy Swatland Ounior); and Benji Hammond (freshman); tailback Travis Krahl Ounior); and kicker Mike Wigton Ounior). 
Depth on the line could be a problem, but junior lineman Kit Hoffman is still confident. 
"We feel we still have the core of a strong team. We've only lost one game in the last two years, and we fully expect to keep up that win­ning tradition." Hoffman said. 
-B.J.HOOD 
CARROLL 
-K.C. GOYER Flanner's Jamie Bordas 
GOLD DIVISION 
ST. Eo's 

St. Ed's will soon begin what year St. Ed's almost didn't have will be a year of transition. enough people to play, and this Several of the players on the year they had to have a cut for team have never played foot­the first time with the help of ball for St. Ed's because they newcomers from Cavanaugh. played in previous years for Other key players are Greg Cavanaugh. Not only do they Bieg, a defensive back and have new players from receiver; Dan Wajerski, a Cavanaugh, but a new coach defensive end; Dave Allred, a from Cavanaugh, Anton center and nose tackle; and Nowak. He brings from Scott McDermott, a linebacker. Cavanaugh two straight suc­With many new players, the cessful seasons (4-0,2-1-1 ), team is inexperienced and and a reputation for implement­hasn't jelled yet. However, ing a strong ground game. there is still a positive outlook 
Key ingredients in the ground on the season at St. Ed's. game will be running backs Sophomore John Blood calls Mike Norbut, Rob Clements, it a "program on the rise." The and Brad Simmons. Nowak goal of the team is to go to the has a problem many teams playoffs. Tight end Bill would like to have-three pos­McLaughlin echoes the team's sible starters at QB: Ben confidence saying, "In the past Magnano, Jacob Bump, and St. Ed's hasn't gotten respect, Frank Diorio. and this year we are out to 
They also have speed and change that." some big bodies on the line. Players commented that last -B.J.HOOD 
The Carroll Hall football team coach Marty Ogren still trying to fit enters this season with a lot of the right players into the right posi­unanswered questions. There are a tions, the defense is a question large number of seniors on the team mark as well. who will bring experience to the After playing well in scrimmages playing field, but what kind of against Flanner and Fischer, senior experience have they had? Last captain Scott Ismail admits that the year the team lost all tour of their Vermin are "pretty excited" for the games. regular season to get underway. 
Although the offense is still look­Yet with so many uncertainties ing for a quarterback, they will rely plaguing an experienced team with on the strength of their line and the a veteran coach, one wonders speed of their talented running whether or not the Vermin can sur­backs to provide them with the pass last year's disappointing win­offensive scoring ability they will less campaign. But there is no need. doubt in the mind of Ismail that the 
The Vermin Defense remains team's record will better last year's unsettled even a week before the mark. , season opener. With fifth year -JACK MACLEOD 
FISHER 
Last season, Fisher went 4-0 in the 
regular season, and only missed a trip to Stadium when Stanford beat them in overtime with a field goal. This year, Fisher hopes to use last sea­son's success as a springboard to Stadium. 
The offensive line is made up of some big kids, who not be 
•TODD RUTH 
GRACE 
Optimism has been a rarity for the Grace lnterhall football team over the last two years. However, after two winless seasons, the coaches and players are confident that this will be the year that a win­ning tradition is initiated at Grace Hall. 
"We won't know until we test out every area against live competition," said captain Pat Cooke. 
This year's squad has a combination of experi­enced veterans and talented newcomers. Offensively, Brian Perez has earned the starting nod at quarterback, and he will be flanked by tail­back Sean Tracy and fullback Bill Leisen in the backfield. The Grace team should be able to run the ball effectively behind an offensive line com­posed of Gerald Lavin, Bob Brett, Troy Phillips, Jack Dwyer, and Jeff Hines. Receivers Mike Dwyer, Bob Long, and Damon Affinito will be the primary targets for Perez to look for in the passing game. 
The defensive unit is also big and experienced up front with Phillips, Todd Leahy, and Marcos Gonzalez making up a line that could prove to be a menace to opposing quarterbacks. Mark Tekon, Greg Peterson, Fernado Salazar, Leisen, and Joel Hypolite give the Grace team the depth at line­backer and have the potential to lead. 
Although Grace plays an extremely tough sched­ule, Cooke believes the team will be competitive as long as they minimize their errors. 
"If we avoid giving up the big play, get good snaps from center, avoid mistakes in the kicking game, and play penalty free football for the most part, then we should be fine," said Cooke. 
-MICHAEL DAY 
-FLANNER 

Although a 1-2-1 record did not  Jamie Bordas inherits the starting  
show it, the Flanner lnterhall team  quarterback role after backing up for  
was one of the most feared groups  much of last season, and newcomer  
in dorm football last year. And if  Tim Vieira has emerged as the top  
they can improve on their offense  candidate for the starting fullback po­ 
(ranked last of all interhall teams)  sition. Although the team has not  
and can approach the kind of  yet named its starting tailback,  
defense they played last season  Jeremy Lyons is expected to receive  
(ranked first), then there is no reason  plenty of action out of the backfield.  
to think Flanner won't challenge for  Tight end Keller, a third year starter,  
the dorm title in 1994.  should emerge as Bordas' primary  
The offense is again a question  target in the passing game.  
mark coming into this season after  Defensive linemen Mantey,  
losing most of last season's starters.  Lefere, Bob Campeau, safety Scott  
Despite that fact, captains Too Keller  Lupo, and a host of young, talented  
and Josh Quinn agree that this area  athletes should once again present  
has the potential to be one of the  all kinds of problems for opposing of­ 
team's strong points.  fenses. Keller believes the key to a  
"We would definitely like to pass  successful season involves total ef­ 
more this year," said Keller. "And if  fort from each team member.  
the short passing game comes  
around, it will take a lot of the pres­ -MICHAEL DAY  
sure off of the defense."  
SORIN  against Alumni is the big one. They need to win their first game so their  
With their first game coming up this  spirits stay alive. The second game  
Sunday, Sorin Hall takes on Alumni.  on the nerves start to wear down and  
Coming off last year's season of 0-4  that is where you see some good foot­ 
under the leadership of Scott Curtis,  ball. When asked about his biggest  
Sorin Hall looks toward Pete Sleasleto  rival Sleasl replied,"St. Ed's is  
help them crawl out of their slump.  because they won their first game  
"Were looking good. We have a  against us in six odd years on a last  
quick backfield as well as a good  second cheesy play."  
Quarterback, as long as the offensive  If there is one team with nothing to  
line holds up," states Slease  lose coming into this year's season, it  
"One of our weaknesses is that we  would have to be Sorin Hall. Although  
don't have that many players, but the  they were 0-4 last year, they have no  
ones we have are pretty good," Qb  intention of duplicating that record.  
Jeff Faragha said.  The team is looking forward to seeing  
Sorin Hall returns seven starters on  nothing but improvement as they try  
offense and five on defense to help  to bring home the championship for  
the cause this season. The first game  Sorin Hall.  

-TODD RUTH 

ALUMNI 
For Alumni, lnterhall football will be a balancing act. A little defense, a lit­tle offense, a little bit of running, and little bit pass of passing. 
"Everybody is spread out," says captain Avery Johnson. "It's bal­anced, where in the past, Alumni has relied on its defense." 
The squad wifl be led by standout Middle Linebacker Mike Denvir. Bolstering the line will be sophomore Dan Farley, who despite being a rook­ie, has been impressive. 
Alumni has many ·new faces, but Johnson has been impressed. "It's been really nice." Johnson believes that the first practice was the best he'd seen from an Alumni team. 
On offense, Alumni will be led by quarterback Conrad Hanson. After a stellar rookie season, Hanson missed all of last year with a broken ankle he suffered , but he feels fine. 
Hanson is impressed with his wide receivers, Dan Morrison, Chris Malone, and Mark Turner. 
Hanson sees the offense opening the defense up with the passing game, before going to the run later. 
"Most defenses are geared against the run. If we can get some protec­tion, that should open it up for me to pass, and open the running the run­ning game." 
"We have one goal," says Johnson. "That is to play the best ball we can and don't make dumb mistakes." 
-NEILZENDE 
may 

be effective. Once the running game opens up,
experienced, but have played a lot of 
"We've got a lot of newcomers and Fisher may go to the air. Hertz will 
ball in high school. The line will be led 
our chances of being competitive look spend most of his time throwing to 
by veteran standout center Dave 
good. Each freshman has high school two-year veteran Mike Carroll, and 
Sullivan, who will also do double duty 
experience." Dan McGinty, a senior wideout who's 
at Middle Linebacker. 
The line will protect rookie quarter­one of the league's best. 
Two-year starter Mike Ruane is the 
back Brian Hertz. He'll be eased into "I'd say we have a more talented 
only other offensive lineman that has 
the job by Fisher's run-heavy offense. club than our 4-0 club last year, and if 
Fisher experience besides Sullivan, 
"We're going to have to rely on the things go well, we're looking to make 
who admits he had some concerns 
run until he gets some experience," it to the stadium," he said. 
whether or not the offensive line could 
said tailback Chris Lary. -NEIL ZENDER 
... 


.------~--------------------~---~-~--------------------­
page 14 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

•"Challenge 
U" Aerobics ­Some classes remain open. There is very limited space in Step classes. Please call or walk into the RecSports office for info about sign-ups. 

•Horse 
Riding Lessons ­Informational Meeting Thursday, September 22 at 7 pm in the Rolfs Aquatic Center 


classroom. For more info call RecSports at 1-6100. 
•Rowing 
Club -Rowing needs a coach. Call Chris at 273-3975. 

•Novice 
Rowers -Pracice be­gins Wednesday at 4:30 and 


5:45. Meet at the main circle and bring insurance forms. Its 
... 
not too late to join. Just show 
up Wednesday, Thursday, 
Friday. 

~en's Boxing Club-First this 
Friday Sept. 23 at 4:00. Gym in JACC. For more info : Jeff Goddard 287-8041. 
•ski 
Club will have an informational meeting for all students interested in becoming a part of the club or ski team. The meeting will be on Thrusday 9/22 at 8:00 pm in 118 Nieuland. 

•Horse 
Back Riding Trail 


Ride: Sunday, October 2 at 11:00, 12:00, 1:00, 2:00, 3:00. No experience necessary and transportation will be provided . The bus will leave the Library Circle thirty minutes before each riding time. The fee is 
$14 per person and you must sign up in advance in the RecSports office. Maximum 
number per ride is 10 and
deadline is 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, September 29. For more info call RecSports at 1­6100. 
•nomer Run: Saturday, October 8, 10:00 a.m. at Stepan Center. Three and six mile runs followed by a pancake 
Sandwich 

Before watching the Irish play the Purdue Boilermakers, grab a 6-FOOT party sub starting as low as $37.95 at SUBWAY. 
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 22, 1994 
breakfast. T -shirts to all finish­ers plus awards to the champi­ons of each division. There will be student and staff divisions. Register in advance at RecSports. The fee is $5 in ad­vance and $6 the day of the race. For more info call RecSprots at 1-6100. 
•varsity Crew Team: There will be a meeting tonight in room 117 Debartolo at 7:30 
p.m. Bring your checkbooks! 
IIVCSIIIC· 
thingta say? . Usc Observer classilicds 

;---~-------~---------------,
Flower Delivery 7 Days 
PQ'SY (I flptth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses 
Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, 
Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
(219) 277-1291 

51400 31 North South Bend, IN 4663/ 1-800-328-0206 
Laker's to deal picks for Ceballos 
By MEL REISNER 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
The Phoenix Suns and Los Angeles Lakers are close to making a deal to send small forward Cedric Ceballos to the Lakers in exchange for a draft choice, Suns president Jerry Colangelo said Wednesday. 
"It could be as early as to­morrow morning, but there's still work to be done," Colangelo said Wednesday evening. "He (Ceballos) has met with the Lakers and is going to have a physical taken, and there has to be a final agree­ment on the reallocation of his contract because of his salary slot. But it all could come together tomorrow." 
Under the salary cap, the Lakers have a $1.75 million slot for Ceballos, who signed a five­year, $10 million contract with Phoenix last year and would 
make $2.1 million in 1994-95.-----------------------, 
A trade would mean a $350,000 pay cut, but the Lakers could make up the dif­ference in later years. 
"That's a separate issue we'll have to work out with Cedric and his agent," Lakers spokesman John Black said. 
Colangelo said the Suns never were interested in Lakers point guard Sedale Threatt, whose name surfaced early in reports about a possible Suns-Lakers deal for Ceballos. 
The Suns wanted a future first-round draft choice even before they signed guard Winston Garland as a backup to Kevin Johnson, Colangelo said. 
Player's Ball 
Sept. 24th 
9 p.m. -3 a.m. at C.S.C 
$2 before I I p.m. $3 after L.---------------------.......1 

Hey Big Guy! 
Call x3232 
and wish me, Donna Lynn, a happy 20th birthday! 
"I can't be more specific, but the chances are that we're go­ing to end up with a high draft pick over the next couple of years," he said. 
Colangelo credited Ceballos' hard work for enhancing his trade value. Ceballos, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended Cal State Fullerton, was a sec­ond-round choice (No. 48) when the Suns drafted him in 1990. 





HALFTIME FIREWORKS SHOW! 
ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 
Thursday, September 22, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
-

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY lARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES \-\OW CAN OJR TIM£ BE UP ?.t 
J\JST 0\D 11-\E FIRS\ 
PR()BLEM ON 1\-\\5 Q\J\1.! 
W\..IERE \)\\) 1'\-\E TIME GO?'? 

DILBERT 
LET'S START WIT!-'. 
A BRIEF REFRE.SHER 
" 
5 
< MONEY YET I DRESS LIKE
IN MACRO ECONOMICS 
~ 
:=< < A FLOOD VICTIM 

Lo1tt.r~
0 
E<
__/ 
~~$-' ~ 
c
Xfll~ 
::>
')j; 
10~ :ll 
· .. L~k 
~ 
f;.oM":! NEw!coM. g 

G\JE55 .' G\JES'S! PIC.K Rf>..N\Xl~ NUMBERS.' MMBE P.. FEW 'tHLL BE R\G\-\1 B" 'S\-\EER L\JCK ! 15! 104 .1 3 .' 27.1 
I 

~, . ~\j\J II/[_(/ ~ 
s::: 

THIS DIAGRAI'\ EXPLAINS 
0 
:=< WI-W 1'1"\ AN EXPERT IN 
BILL WATTERSON 

001'-\.T FOR<iET 11-\t: Bffi WE I-ItoNE 1\ BET OIT.' I ON \'.1\..10 GElS DON T n\E \..1\G\-\ER GP..t-1BLE! 
GRAOt: . 1-{CJ BETS . 1 
SCOTT ADAMS 


At the Crabbiness Research Institute 
crJeteb?:ate a f;rien()'.s birth()ay with a .special C!Jbsel:J)e?: atJ.
CROSSWORD 
.., 

-

ACROSS 
1 Chew the fat 4 Feature of Doyle's "The Adventure of the Dancing Men" 8 Faceup card in 
faro 12 Fraternal one 13 Region in NW 
Greece 15 Don Juan's mother 16 Mr. Potato Head 
accessory 17 Poser 19 Lab tube 21 Busy 22 Lobster claw 24 Kind of acid 25 Poser 
30Golden statuette 
31 Jejune 32 Humbug? 35 Drink of old 
36 Incite a hen? 38 Farm baby 39 Prince Valiant's 
son 40Approach 41 Physics particle 42 Poser 45 Wooden shoe 48 Louis XVI's wife 49Air-raid 
warnings 51 Angry 55 Poser 58-Ben 
Canaan of "Exodus" 59 Soprano Motto 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
60 Reduces 61 Slate-cutting 
tool 62 Spotted &3 Boris Godunov, 
e.g. 64 TV Tarzan 
DOWN 
1 Vehicle since 
1940 2Jai­3 Cincinnati 
letters 4 Tyson of "Sounder" 
5 Two-time Smythe Trophy winner 
6 Couple in Rome 7This: Sp. 8Usea 
heliograph 9 Best Supporting Actress, 1973 10 Tooth: Prefix 
e.g. 
13 Old Testament book 14 Gunn with a gun 18 Partner of 
dangerous 
20 Outward 
23 Coasters for Socrates, e.g. 
25 Site for a Cezanne: Abbr. 
site 27 Scrutinize 28 El Dorado loot 
29 Sauterne, e.g. 32 Ruth's husband 33 Manor head, 
maybe 34Actress Sommer 36 Some doctor's 
reading: Abbr. 37 Empty talk 38 Large-headed 
match 40 Capone's chief enforcer · 41 Counterpanes 

42 River in an old so Save, with spiritual "away" 43 Football coach 52 Stupefy Pop­
53 Caspian feeder 44 Poet Matthew 
54 Folklore figure 45 "Heimskringla" 
56 Vetoes 

et al. 
57 -Zulu (South

46Solo 
African region) 47 European capital 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
-
SPORTS 

By HEATHER MROSLA 
Spons Writer 

Though the major league strike continues, America's fa­vorite pastime still thrives at Notre Dame. In anticipation of the upcoming season, St. Ed's hosted Irish baseball's new head coach, Paul Mainieri, last night at the St. Ed's Forum. 
Mainieri opened his informal speech on "How I See the Future of Notre Dame Baseball" by discussing his new position. He praised his predecessor, Pat Murphy, now head coach at ASU, and acknowledged the difficulty of following on the heels of a suc­cessful and well-liked coach. 
"I'm not going to try to be Pat Murphy, I'm just going to try to be myself." 
He went on to speak highly of his new staff and foresees a smooth coaching transition. New members of the staff in­clude Brian O'Connor, former head coach at Creighton, and Cory Mee, who played for Notre Dame two years ago. Mainieri himself brings experi­ence coaching hitters and position players. He then out­lined his own philosophy. 
"My attitude is to show a lot of confidence in the players," he said. 
This confidence was evident in his praise for his team, especially the pitchers. 
"The true strength lies with pitchers," he said. "These pitchers could throw the ball through a carwash and it wouldn't even get wet." 
Though optimistic overall, Mainieri spoke of a possible weakness due to the loss of five of the best infielders and limited infield recruiting. He also answered questions about his offensive philosophy, which emphasizes a hit and run of­fense. 
"We're going to put the pres­sure on the other team," he said. 
Mainieri's excitement for baseball and for Notre Dame was apparent throughout his presentation. 
"Notre Dame is the greatest university God ever put on earth," he said. 
Mainieri responded to ques­tions ranging from the pres­sures of coaching a Notre Dame sports team to concerns about the effects of South Bend weather with humor and optimism. 
"Forget the weather," he said. "We're playing in a beautiful ballpark." 
Irish baseball faces a tough season beginning with the University of Texas, Cal State­Fullerton, and Pepperdine. Mainieri, however, is very con­fident in his players. 
"Notre Dame offers the best of both worlds," he said. "We have some great players, but they're also smart players." 
For an early look at the team, the Irish will be scrim­maging after Friday's pep rally at the Frank Eck Baseball Stadium. 
Thursday, September 22, 1994 

Slammers win season opener 
By MICHAEL DAY  Ippolito.  was able to come from behind  
Spons Writer  Lewis wouldn't come close the  to  earn  a  12-7  victory  on  
The Sigfried Slammers kicked off the girls' 1994 Interhall football season in impressive style on Wednesday night with a 14-0 victory over Lewis in the opening game of the season. Sigfried quarterback Marcie McNeill had an outstanding de­but, passing for one touchdown and running for another, to help lead the Slammers to the upset victory. Receivers Erin Ippolito and Kathleen Clark  rest of the evening as the tough Slammer defense throttled the overmatched Chicken offense. Sigfried coach David Bozanich viewed the strong play of his defense as the difference in the game. "Our defense was able to con­trol theirs and it really opened up things for our offense," he said. "We were able to drive down field pretty well for most of the game."  Wednesday night. In perhaps the most exciting game of the night, defending champion PW and underdog Knott played virtually even for most of the evening before PW went ahead for good with un­der five minutes remaining. Wideout Tran Truong received the hand-off and later scored on a reverse that had the Angel defense completely fooled. PW withstood Knott's final rally as the final whistle blew and  
also enjoyed terrific nights in Sigfried's potent passing game. The Slammers' first score came in the closing seconds of the first half. After watching Lewis dominate the first half statistically, Sigfried needed a  PW 12, Knott 7 The good new for Knott is that they scored their first touch­down in two years. The bad news is that Pasquarella West  walked off feeling that they had dodged a bullet in their opening game of the season. PW jumped out to a great start, scoring on their second-see GAMES I page ll  
big play to turn the momentum  
in their direction, and defensive  
back  Samantha  Spencer  
answered the call.  Spencer  
stepped up and intercepted a  
Lewis pass deep in Slammer  
territory to put an end to the  
Chickens best scoring oppor­ 
tunity of the half.  
It proved to be the lift that the  
Slammers  needed,  as  they  
drove the length of the field and  
scored on a short pass from  
McNeill to Ippolito.  Sigfried's  
two point conversion attempt  
was no good, but they went into  
the half leading 6-0.  
The Slammers built on their  
momentum in the second half  
and were able to control the  
ball with a deadly, short pass­ 
ing game.  On their second  
drive  in  the  second  half,  
McNeill hit Clark  across the  
middle to give the Slammers a  
first down at the Chickens 10­ 
yard line.  The very next play  
turned  into  six  points  as  
McNeill dashed up the middle  
for  a  10-yard  touchdown.  
Sigfried upped its lead to 14-0  
following a successful two-point conversion pass from McNeill to  The Observer/Kyle Kusek Pangborn lines up in scrimmage before their season opener last night.  

Belles lose heartbreaker 4-2 
BYJENNIFER LEWIS be the strongest team Wheaton has ever had, Saint Mary's Sports Editor according to Shari Matelski. "Wheaton's had two major strengths," said The Belles were unable to surpass the (6-0} coach Larry Patterson. "Speed and size." undefeated Wheaton College yesterday af­"Wheaton had three outstanding players," said ternoon, dropping their record to 3-3. Nichols. "That dominated the field." 
Saint Mary's Debi Diemer assisted Lisa Nichols Rita Juster twisted her ankle while going in for for the initial goal of the game early in the first a tackle. She was unable to return for the rest of half. However, by half time Wheaton led 2-1. The the second half. Juster consistently plays the 
Crusaders immediately scored in the second half entire game and is one of the Belles key players. increasing their lead to 3-1. Her absence hurt the Belles, according to Anne Fewell was able to score the second goal Patterson. 
for the Belles closing the gap to 3-2. Saint Mary's has been working on increasing Nevertheless, in the last minutes of the game their passing in practice. Wheaton scored another goal making the final "We have to work more on our offense," said 
score 4-2. Juster. "We are not completely in sink yet, but "The score does not justify how close the game it's early in the season." really was," said Keary Sullivan. "We played "We played the best we have ever played for some of the best soccer we played all year and about thirty to forty minutes in the game," said we were able to keep up with one of the best Patterson. "We are going to have to expand that teams in our region." period to ninety minutes if we expect to beat dif­The Crusaders have broken their record of con­
ficult teams." secutive wins this season and have been said to Saint Mary's has a busy weekend. The Belles 

of note...
MEN'S IH FOOTBALL 
For in-depth analysis of the 

Previews, rankings and predictions for the 
football game this Saturday 

women's interhall season. 
see the Sports Extra in this 

Pages 12-13 
Friday's paper. 








