
~150 YEARS~ 
Monday, November 7, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 46 ~NOTRE DAME·IN ~ 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Capitol tour turns into brush with history 
Pair from Saint Mary's get snap­shots they'll never forget from 
White House gunman 
By lAURA FERGUSON 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
During the mid-semester break, Tanya Wilson and Esti Mutidjo saw the sights of the nation's capital -Arlington Cemetery, the Lincoln Memo­rial, the Washington Monument and the lone gunman who fired 30 rounds into the White House grounds. 
On October 29, Wilson and Mutidjo, both Saint Mary's stu­dents, were scheduled to attend a wedding in the Washington 
D.C. area. but instead they ven­tured into the city to visit some of the points of interest which they missed the day before, including the White House. 
Like many other tourists, Wil­son and Mutidjo stood on Penn­sylvania Avenue in front of the White House to take photos, but a man wearing a tan trench coat was standing in the way of their picture. 
"The man wasn't doing any­thing strange, he just acted like a normal tourist," said Wilson. "We only noticed him because he was wearing a coat and it was gorgeous out but it was unbuttoned so it didn't look like he was hiding anything. He turned around to look at us and he moved a little but he was still in the shot." 
According to Mutidjo the man, later identified as Francisco Martin Duran of Colorado Springs. was not very tall, Spanish-looking with dark curly hair and it looked as though he hadn't shaved. 
Since they were looking for someone to take their picture with the White House in the background, Wilson asked Duran to take their picture. He agreed. 
After snapping their picture, Duran returned their camera and wished them a good day. 
Wilson and Mutidjo heard the shots from Duran's Chinese made semi-automatic rifle while they were on the south­west side of the White House. 
"At first we thought it was fire crackers so everyone was looking up at the sky and laughing," said Wilson. "The Secret Service in the area then realized that the noise was gunfire. They told everyone to get down on the ground while at least 40 Secret Service men ran into the White House and black vans appeared from nowhere." 
"As the Secret Service men started running I started to run," said Mutidjo. "I was Hearitlg this, Wilson spoke up scared that I was in the line of and said she may have seen the fire but Tanya grabbed me." gunman while they were on 


After the commotion died Pennsylvania Avenue. down a little bit, Wilson walked According to Wilson, the to the secret service station secret service said they might where a group of secret service have to take their camera and agents were talking together in film but because Duran was a group. According to Wilson, caught by two civilian someone in the group asked bystanders. The camera was what the gunman looked like never confiscated. and an agent described Duran. "If we had been there four minutes later we would have seen the whole thing and been two feet behind him," said Wil­son. "It was crazy and excit­ing." 
Wilson also commented how it was strange that the Secret Service was not able to catch Duran before he sprayed the White House grounds with bul­
see SHOOTING I page 4 


The Observer/ Rob Finch 

Heart and Soul 
A participant sings as people look on at Hallelujah Night II, held at Stepan Center on Saturday night. 


Rita testifies in own defense 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
SOUTH BEND 
Notre Dame Law School Graduate John Rita took the witness stand in his own de­fense Friday, as his trial on charges of causing a death while driving drunk and leaving the scene of an accident moves towards its conclusion. 
Rita is being tried in connec­tion with the death of then Notre Dame freshman Mara Fox last November 13. Fox, 18, of Oakton, Virginia, was struck and killed in a hit and run crash on Douglas Road as she and several friends were returning to campus from a Grape Road restaurant. The case could go to the jury some­time today. 
Defense attorney Charles Asher questioned his client for more than an hour in an at­tempt to recount the events and circumstances surrounding the accident. An emotional Rita, 25, told the court he was dumbfounded when he woke to find police officers in his bed­room early Saturday morning. 
''I've never experienced any­thing like it," Rita testified. "I was shocked when they told me I was under arrest." Rita con­tinued to say that his reaction was anything but a callous one as the prosecution contended in its case. 
"I hung my head. I was speechless," Rita said. He as­serted that he never told au­thorities, "I'm shocked my friends turned me in." Several vestigation testified that those his drinking habits. Rita said he were Rita's first words to them was a "social drinker" who par­that morning. tied "once a weekend night." 


Rita also maintained that he He continued to say that he made every attempt to comply only had three beers and a shot with police officer's requests. of liqueur in a period of time He said he did not ask ques­ranging from shortly after the tions of the officers, nor did he Florida State-Notre Dame pep refuse to cooperate in any way. rally until 11:30 p.m. that Rita said he did not refuse a evening. Rita told the court he breath test when authorities was sober and did not consume confronted him about taking twelve to sixteen beers as one one. prosecution witness suggested. 
"They told me there was an· "There was no way I was in­unofficial one (a portable test toxicated or impaired," Rita police had with them) and an said. official one (the Intoxilazer at Rita testified that he did not St. Joseph County jail). I said attempt to flee the area after 'Give me the official one,"' Rita testified. 
see TRIAL I page 4 



page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, November 7, 1994 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


A church 
worth fighting 
for 
I had a good, normal, Catholic upbringing. 
Since I was young, I've gone to Mass, attended CCD classes and served as both an altar boy and a lector. 
Until about a year ago, I ------­was an average Catholic. I really didn't think too much about the issues fac­ing our church. But recently, I really took a hard look at the church and I'm not sure if I like everything I've learned. 
Strangely enough, this started last summer after John Lucas I began interning for an Managing Editor Archdiocesan newspaper. It's probably more than a little ironic that my working for the church would lead me to question it. 

My main source of information was the Catholic News Service, a wire service that is a Catholic equivalent to the Associated Press. Every day I read the news stories that came in over the wire. Many were about Catholics from all over the world, doing good works and having good experiences. 
Others, particularly those involving church doctrine, came from the Vatican. Through the stream of weekly papal and Vatican proclama­tions I read this summer, it is clear to me that our church is embracing the status quo and steadfastly refusing change. 
One of the biggest issues that bothered me came from the papal proclamation on the ordi­nation of women. In essence, the Pope told women to forget it, to give up hope. 
The National Catholic Reporter, a weekly Catholic newspaper devoted an issue to reaction to the Pope's statement. The cover of the issue depicted a women behind an altar, lifting host and chalice. The headline read "Not Now... But Someday," implying that a day for women will yet come. 
And that's my biggest hope. Maybe someday our church will change so that there will be a day for all the Catholics who have been ignored and abandoned. 
I hope too that women will fmally be ordained. Until then, they will continue wor­shipping under a system that relegates them to second-class status. 
I hope the church will wake up to the fact that it isn't necessary for a man to be celibate to be a good priest. 
I hope the church will stop oppressing gays for their choice of a different lifestyle. Jesus loved everyone, didn't he? 
I hope we finally realize that condoms are realistic and make sense. 
More than anything, I admire those who stand up for beliefs like these and fight for change. Like members of Call To Action who gathered in Chicago last weekend. Like members of our Notre Dame family who signed a statement questioning the Pope's position on contracep­tion. 
I say these things as a concerned young Catholic. I'm not aimless or disenfranchised. I'm not a member of "Generation X." I won't be labeled into a neat, tidy category. To me, our church is worth fighting for, and I will not leave it. 
I don't think I'm alone in these beliefs. Sooner or later, people like me will be heard. Tell me I'm wrong, call me a heretic, whatever. In a closed-minded community like Notre Dame, I know someone will. Write your letters. Make your pious proclamations. 
I can tell you only one thing. Not very long from now, my generation will lead this church. I only hope we have the wisdom that is current­ly lacking. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Laura Ferguson David Diaz Brad Prendergast Elizabeth Harnisch 
Sports Matt Casey Accent Joe Villinski Jenny Shank Viewpoint 
SuzyFry Graphics 

• Wmu..oAT A GLANCE 
Woman decided at last moment not to take fatal fli ht 4184 
LOS ANGELES "They just looked at me funny 
When the airline said there when I checked in at Chicago," would be a $35 penalty to change she said. "I was waiting for them her flight plans, Maria Peterson to say, 'You owe us $35.' But the agreed to pay. She didn't know it woman just told me to go right on was the price of her life and that the flight." of her 2-year-old son. Peterson didn't learn the fate of 
The Santa Barbara woman had Flight 4184 until she got home in been booked on American Eagle Santa Barbara, about 120 miles Flight 4184, which crashed northofLosAngeles. Monday en route from Her husband, who knew she Indianapolis to Chicago, killing had switched her plans, greeted all 68 people aboard. her and their son Christopher in 
Peterson, in Indiana for a the driveway. friend's wedding, changed her "I told her she would have been plans after the bride and two killed," said Eric Peterson. "She other friends convinced her to thought it was a bad joke and I drive with them to Chicago was making it up." instead of flying. Peterson said she kept asking 
Dropping one leg of her flight her husband: "You're kidding, 
-she still needed to catch an right?" American Airlines flight from "But then I saw his face and I Chicago to Los Angeles-wasn't knew he wasn't making it up," 
easy. she said. "I grabbed hold of him 
"The airline people gave me a and hugged him and my son." hard time," Peterson said in a a~~~~e~!::'r "It's hard to describe the feel-telephone interview with The tolheground. ing -knowing you could have Associated Press. "They said if~~~~~~~~~=====~~~~ lost your whole family," her bus-
you don't use a portion of the band said. "My son, and my wife, ticket, it voids the whole thing." who is two months pregnant. After arguing with a supervisor, she wrangled a deal "It's been an emotional roller coaster ride. We've seen for the $35 penalty. the pieces of that flight scattered across a field. It could American Airlines never collected the fee. have been her." 
Reagan's Alzheimer's prompts prayers 
LOS ANGELES Worshipers at former President Reagan's church 
bowed their heads Sunday to pray for a "healing hand" to fight his Alzheimer's disease, while messages wishing him well poured in from around the coun­try. Released to the public on Saturday, Reagan's handwritten letter disclosing the disease was accompanied by a statement from five doctors. They said that while Reagan's health was otherwise good, "it is expected that as 

the years go on it will begin to deteriorate.' Reagan, 83, and his wife, Nancy, didn't attend Sunday services at Bel Air Presbyterian Church overlooking the San Fernando Valley. They also were not at their Bel Air estate, where TV cameras were set up outside the gate Telephone lines to the Reagan offices were jammed and the staff left after a short time Sunday because they were unable to handle the volume 

S. Carolina town mourns slain boys 
UNION, S.C. 
A single white coffm stacked with yellow roses held the bodies of two young brothers whose drowning was mourned by hundreds crowded into a small country church on Sunday. David Smith followed as the coffin holding his sons, 3-year-old Michael and 14-month-old Alex, was wheeled from the church to a cemetery. The boys' mother, Susan Smith, was absent-behind bars and charged with killing her sons by strapping them into their car safety-seats and sending the car rolling into a lake. The boys were found at the bottom of Lake John D. Long on Thursday. Nine days earlier their mother told police a man with a gun took her car and her children and drove off. CNN, which said it obtained Mrs. Smith's confession, reported that she intended to go into the lake with her children. 
Pope finally admits his use of a cane 

SIRACUSA, Sicily 
Pope John Paul II has acknowledged what has been obvious to millions. He walks with a cane. Using humor as a weapon, John Paul appears to be striking back at critics who say his papacy is slowing down. The pope even knocked his own recently published book, which has become a best seller in Italy and in the U.S. After months of walking almost surreptitiously with a cane following hip-replacement surgery April 29, the pope has begun waving it, joking about it and asking people what they think. He made clear he intends to keep traveling, with his next overseas trip an Asian tour in January. ''I'm preparing to go to Manila with my cane. I'll get there and I think my cane will too," he said at Saturday's youth rally. He also made his first public mention of his recent­ly published book, "Crossing the Threshold of Hope," telling the young people: "If you haven't read it, don't bother. It's not a book, it's an interview.'' The book was based on questions submitted by an Italian journalist in advance of a TV interview that was later canceled. 

200 arrested in neo-Nazi meeting raid 

STUTTGART, Germany 
Eight officers were injured as police arrested nearly 200 people in a raid on a meeting of neo-Nazis, police said Sunday. The 47-year-old organizer of the meeting stabbed an officer in the hand with a knife as he was be­ing arrested, police said. Other officers were injured when attendees threw beer bottles and glasses. The radical rightists had gathered in a Stuttgart restaurant to found a neo-Nazi organization, police said. Police confis­cated neo-Nazi literature and emblems bearing swastikas during the raid. Everyone attending the meeting were being investigated for possible charges of disturbing the peace, and some also faced possible charges of causing serious bodily injury, police said. Most were released Sunday. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 7. 30s 
OHIO 
lindianapoli3 61 o I 
• 
FRONTS: 

....,........., ...a....&..~ COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu·Wealher, Inc. Prsssure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY ClOUDY 
Lab Tech Robert Bollman Mike Hungeling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 

~~~·44(f~~ 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 

s;;,';e',; T-~~~;;,s ~~;;;~~ ·i~~c· -=;~-=. Sunny ~-Cloudy
Rain Cloudy 
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Vta AssociatBd Press Graph/csNet 01994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Atlanta  71  50  Dallas  73  46  New Orleans 78 55  
Baltimore 61  46  Denver  65  30  New York  60 45  
Boston  54  48  Los Angeles 67  52  Philadelphia  62 45  
Chicago  60  34  Miami  85  47  Phoenix  76  54  
Columbus 57  32  Minnesota  53  33  Pittsburgh  56  39  



----~---~---~--~---------------~~-----~~~---~--~~-----------·----­
Monday, November 7, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 



Community reclaims area 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
NewsWrirer 
Hundreds of Notre Dame stu­dents were busy Saturday do­ing yard and clean-up work and enjoying a block party in South Bend's northeast neighborhood. The efforts were part of the resurrected Fall Festival program, a joint pro­ject of several student groups and the Northeast Neighborhood Center. 
From 9 a.m. until noon, near­ly 400 students raked leaves, removed trash and unwanted trees, and planted flower bulbs in the Georgiana-Duey-Burns area. 
The Fall Festival was active in the early 1980's, but was discontinued because of a lack of organization. It was revived last year due to the elderly neighborhood residents' need for help in maintaining their yards. 
Phil Boelter, the Northeast Neighborhood organizer for the project, was instrumental in resurrecting the program. 
"The Fall Festival represents the efforts of the residents to reclaim the neighborhood as a group," he said. "Notre Dame is a part of the Northeast neigh­borhood, and the neighborhood is a part of Notre Dame. The neighborhood doesn't stop at Angela. 
Boelter said the festival was very important in light of the assaults committed against stu­dents in the neighborhood re­cently. 
"This is an attempt to let people see that northeast resi­dents have families, needs, and things to share." 
Boelter said he was very pleased with the student turnout and with the project's progress, although a larger number of utility trucks would have been helpful. He ex­pressed his gratitude to the stu­dents for coming out despite the wet weather, as well as to the City of South Bend for pro­viding equipment. 
"The credit belongs to the Northeast Neighborhood Coun­cil, the Notre Dame students, and the residents of Georgiana­Duey-Burns," said Boelter. 
Another key party in launch­ing the Fall Festival was Karen DuBay, Notre Dame's Student Volunteer Coordinator. DuBay became involved in the project through the Center for Social Concerns and through student government. 
DuBay pulled together an ex­ecutive student committee to help organize the project along­side all three campus ROTC de­partments. She commended the Hall Presidents Council, student government, and the sopho­more and senior classes for their individual efforts. 
"Our aim is to break down the stereotypes that students may have of neighbors and that neighbors may have of stu­dents," said DuBay. 
Peter Thomsen, a sophomore Army ROTC member, agreed that the project's general pur­pose was to improve the rela­tionship between students and residents. He was impressed with how involved the residents were in the clean-up and how cooperative they were with the students. 
The project did have a festi­val aspect to it despite all the work that took place. A block party followed the planting and cleaning up. 
-

------------, 
page3 


The Observer/Rob Finch 

Showtime 
Stepan Center was the stage for this choir of boys dressed in Mexican costumes who performed at Hallelujah Night II on Saturday. 


OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 



GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army fees. They even pay a flat rate for text-ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds books and supplies. You can also receive of talented students. If you qualify, .-.=-. an allowance of up to $1000 each these merit-based scholarships can school year the scholarship is in help you pay tuition and educational effect. Find out today if you qualify. 


THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU W TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 
cratic candidate Feinstein. political interest groups and Both Guilani and Riordan's ac­party unity is further dissi­tions represent a decreased pated. power of the two political par­"Political parties are becom­ties as well as the publics. over­ing weakened institutions. all discontentment with the They no longer have the political system . strength and power they once 
Robert Schmuhl, chairman of had. Party discipline is no the Department of American longer. Individual candidates Studies, attributes the decline tend to do things on their own of party loyalty to numerous now," Schmuhl said. factors. First is the number of The rise of independent can­Americans who identify them­didates and "moderate" politi­selves as independents. Led by cians is therefore understand­page4 


Trial 
continued from page 1 
the accident as the prosecution charged. He recalled for the court the moments immediately after the fatal crash. 
"I heard a thud and everyone in the car said 'What was that?' I did not see anything to explain it, so I decided to drive around the block to see what it was." he said. It was only after Rita had turned onto Grape Road, and into better lighting, that his front seat passenger noticed the radial cracks in Rita's windshield and told him to pull over. 
Rita said he did not see Fox or her friends before or after he heard the thud. He said the only motion he made with his car was to pull it over to the right slightly to avoid an oncoming car he believed was a little too close to the center lines. 
VVhen he parked under a parking lot light at a children's bedding store, Rita said he be­gan to realize something was wrong. Rita saw the cracked windshield and was overtaken by "a feeling of absolute shock and horror," he said. 
Looking back at that moment, Rita said he now can notice a definite change in his mental profile as he stood with his friends in that parking lot. Rita told the jury he began to view things " ... as if they were pic­tures, I lost the feeling of the continuity of time." Rita said he and his friends agreed to leave the car in the lot because it might not be safe to drive, he said. 
Rita testified that the next thing he remembered was be­ing in his University Park apartment. "I guess we walked hnt T h """' nn r"'rnll.,.rtion of 

SPECIAL OFFER! 
STUDENTS ONLY! 
Autographed by Joe Theismann, award-winning book Notre Dame Football Today, reg. $4995 , now just $3500• Says Coach Lou Holtz: "It's the finest and most dramatic coffee­table book ever produced on ND football." A must for every student and an ideal gift for all Irish fans. 
Call Kyle Doty: 
(219)634~1740 

that walk, or how long 1t took;• he said. 
He stated he could not re­member with any precision the conversations of that walk or in the parking lot because of the fog that came over him. He de­scribed this mental change as very powerful. "I was horrified at the possibilities. It was as if things weren't really there," Rita said. 
Once in the apartment, Rita said he really only remembered having two thoughts. "I thought, if something bad hap­pened, I'm responsible, and that we have to find out what happened." Rita said his friend noticed his state, and told him to stay at the apartment. 
"They told me I needed to calm down," said Rita. They agreed to go survey the scene, and notifying the police became necessary, Rita said his friends agreed to do so. 
When Asher asked Rita if his friends contacted police against his will, Rita simply said, "no." 
Asher continued by question­ing Rita about his breathalizer test, in an attempt to attack its credibility. Rita said police never advised him of a printing problem with the results, or about the reliability of breath 
The Observer • NEWS 

testmg lor hlood alcohol con­tent. Rita said police never in­formed him that a blood test was the most accurate way to determine intoxication levels. 
Under cross-examination by prosecutor Michael Barnes, Rita reiterated his statements that he made no attempt to run or hide. Barnes asked Rita why he circled the area, rather than duck into one of the numerous commercial parking areas, or take a shortcut through Uni­versity Park Mall on the circuit he drove after the accident. 
"I don't know," Rita said. "Perhaps it was not the best decision, but I had made a decision to circle around and try to fmd out what happened." Rita denied Barnes' accusation that Rita only pulled his car over when he saw flashing lights ahead of him and heard sirens. 
Rita did admit that as he looked at his tracked wind­shield he began to think that he may have struck a human be­ing. "The though started to creep into the back of my mind: My God, what if I hit a person?" he said. 
Rita will be back on the stand this morning. The defense may rest its case sometime today. 

Who goes out on Monday nights? 
Hope it was Happy 






ffi[illvg 

FR. JOSEPH WALlER, c.s.c. 
Chairman ofPreprofessional Studies 
speaks on 



~~How to get into a good medical school,, 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9 
7:00P.M. 
at ST. EDWARDS HALL 
Monday, November 7, 1994 

Photo courtesy of Estl Mutldjo 
Francisco Duran took this photo of Esti Mutidjo, left and Tanya Wilson just minutes before Duran opened fire on the White House on Oct. 29. 

rounds," she said. "It was a very strange feeling to know
Shooting 

that I was there, but I was very glad that we weren't on thecontinued from page 1 side he was firing at and that"There were snipers on the no one got hurt. We felt saferoof and in the trees but this where we were, but before we 
guy was able to shoot 30 

could have touched that man." 
University or 
Notre Dame 
International Study Program 
In 

INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
Information Meeting 
With Professor Marie-Antoinette Kremer 
MONDAY NOVEMBER 7, 1994 4:30PM 207 DEBARTOLO 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 


MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIPS 
PROFESSIONALISM FROM THE START 

As a scholarship student, the Na,~· will pay: 
• 
Full tuition, authorized fees and educational expenses. 

• 
The cost for required books and supplies. 

• 
Rental fees for necessary equipment. 

• 
Monthly cash payment of over S843. 


New 4-year scholarships now available for both MEDICAL and DENTAL* students. 
For more infonnation, call (708) 729-5210. 
·*Dental applications are due December 30,1994. 
N 
A"l"T OFFICER You and the Navy.
1\..l' I Full Speed Ahead. 


---~----­
Monday, November 7, 1994 The Observer • NEWS pageS 
Panel: Parents must be involved in TV viewing 


By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
News Writer 
Parents must be involved in their children's viewing of television in order for it to be used as a positive influence, ac­cording to the panelists present at yesterday's telecast of "Media Violence and the Family: Finding Solutions," at WNDU-TV studios. 
Among the topics discussed during the show were: televi­sion violence from a child's perspective, the effects of me­dia violence on children, the manner in which children's in­terpretation of televised vio­lence differs according to age, how television affects cultural perceptions of women and mi­norities, and suggestions for controlling family exposure to televised violence. 
Present in the studio as pan­elists were James Collins, Ph.D., associate professor of communications and theater at Notre Dame and Judith Myers­Walls, Ph.D., professor of child development at Purdue Uni­versity. 
Guests included George Gerbner, dean emeritus of the Annenberg School of Commu­nications at the University of Pennsylvania, who was linked by satellite during the live pre­sentation. Video interviews were presented of Gordon Berry, a consultant for chil­dren's programs at CBS and NBC; Barbara Wilson, a com­munications expert from the University of California at Santa Barbara; and Jeffrey Cole, di­rector of a UCLA study on vio­lence in network television. 
According to Myers-Walls, there are various types of vio­lence on television: (1) "the good guys and the bad guys" type of violence, (2) violence of supernatural things, like mon­sters, (3) natural forces, like natural disasters and wildlife, 
(4) 
evil villains that are Satan­like, such as Freddy Krueger, 

(5) 
historical violence, like wars and lynchings, (6) people fight­ing, where there may not be a distinct "good guy" and "bad guy," and (7) sports, like box­ing, football, and including var­ious games when the benches clear or fans get into argu­ments. 


Myers-Walls said it is impor­tant to recognize these different 

Get Naked 
Happy 2Jst 
We Miss You! 
Love, E, Jules, Beth, Moni, &Donna 
types of violence because chil­dren tend to imitate what they see on television. She also said that "not all violence is created equal." 
Mike Collins, the host of the presentation asked if the solu­tion to preventing children from being exposed to this violence is for parents to simply turn off the television. 
James Collins, responded, "You can't tell them just to say no to the mass media." 
Speaking on the role of women in the media, he noted the movies "Terminator 2," "Aliens," and "Thelma and Louise" did not depict women in a stereotypical victimized po­sition. However, referring to the role of women in the three movies he mentioned, he raised the question, "Is this counter­productive?" 
Collins said he was watching "Terminator 2," a movie in which actress Linda Hamilton frequently uses weapons with which to fight and protect her family, with his 13-year-old daughter. He said, "What was I going to tell her, 'Look honey, you can use a grenade launch­er, too'." 
Gerbner said that "victim­ization was an important con­sequence of showing violence. Parents have a responsibility to watch TV with their kids. 
According to Cole, parents need to "use that influence (of television) constructively." 
Berry said that parents should sit down with their chil­dren and explain to them that what is on television is "designed for entertainment." 
According to Wilson, "things that might be appropriate for one age group might not be ap­propriate for another... which makes it difficult (for parents) because siblings watch TV to­gether." 
Speaking on the topic of multicultural programming, Berry said that it is important that "adolescents of color" watch television programs that are "not just violent interaction of people that look like them and act like them" because such shows "build stereotypes." 
The hour-long, live telecast was 1Oth in a series sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni As­sociation's office of Alumni Continuing Education. 
Notre Dame is the first uni­versity to provide educational television programs for its alumni through satellite tech­nology. 
The Alumni Association has two hundred clubs, some of which are in foreign countries, according to Jim Dettling, the head of continuing education for the St. Joe Valley Club. 
Dettling, a member of the class of '61, has been a part of every one of the programs sponsored by the Alumni Asso­ciation. He said one could gain a lot by watching the series. "That's the idea of it," he said, "to learn something." 
Executive Director of the Alumni Association Charles Lennon, Jr. explained that con­tinuing education is one of five committees in the Alumni As­sociation, which selects a topic for each program based on "value-centered education." 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, November 7, 1994 

PREJUDICE REDUCTION 









ORKSHOP 
lfyou are interested in learning how to confront oppression, then'-sign up now! 
The Multicultural Executive Council is offering students, staff, and professors the opportunity to participate in this diversity sensitivity workshop. 

Limited Enrollment-Calllmmediately 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 20 8:30 A.M. -1:30 P.M. EARTH SCIENCE BUILDING ROOM 101 
BREAKFAST AND LUNCH WILL BE PROVIDED 
THIS WORKSHOP IS BEING PRESENTED BY 'THE NOTRE DAME AFFILIATE OF THE NATIONAL COALITION BUILDING INSTITUTE 
Contact: 
. 


Mickey Franco • 631-4355 Adele Lanan • 631-7308 
----~--~-----------------------­


CAMPUSES 
Monday, Novemeber 7, 1994 
Student fights cost of vandalism 
By MARCY DINIUS 
Campuses Editor 
A student at Stanford University charged with the vandalism of the sculpture "Gay Liberation" on campus is con­testing the cost of its repair as excessive, maintaining that he is being made to pay for dam­age that was previously done to the statue. 
Senior Thomas Irwin pled no contest to his felony charge, yet in a preliminary hearing, Irwin's attorney argued that the actual damage done to the stat­ue was less than $5,000 and that, as a result, the charge should be decreased to a mis-Students exposed to radiation 
WISCASSET, Maine 

A nuclear power plant has discontinued tours after mem­bers of a college chemistry club were exposed to radioactive gas. 
A spokesman for the Maine Yankee plant said there was no health threat. A radiology ex­pert said the exposure could put the students at greater risk of developing several forms of cancer. 
The 10 students from a Uni­versity of Southern Maine chemistry club were exposed to radioactivity Tuesday, when they passed through an area in which rubidium gas had been released, said Joseph Quattrucci, the club's presi­dent. 
Maine Yankee spokesman Marshall Murphy said no one received a measurable dose of radiation. The gas dissipated quickly and posed no health threat, he said. 
Jimi Yerokun, senior resident inspector at the plant, agreed. 
"The doses that the kids were 
exposed to (are) of no real con­
cern." 
However, Ernest Sternglass, professor of radiology at the University of Pittsburgh, said the danger lies in the likelihood that the students inhaled a ra­dioactive substance. 
The rubidium decays into 
strontium, which gives otT beta 
rays and remains in bone. The 
exposure can lead to immune 
system disorders and higher 
rates of leukemia and breast 
and skin cancers. 
'Very tiny amounts are harm­
ful," he said. 
Murphy said the incident was 
the first time members of a 
tour group had set off radiation 
monitors. Nearly 2,000 people 
tour the plant annually. 
A spokesman for the Commit­
tee For a Safe Energy Future, 
William Linnell, expressed 
skepticism over the Maine 
Yankee account. 
"Too often Maine Yankee 
gives its spin without our being 
given the opportunity to chal­
lenge them," he said. "Maine 
Yankee's attorneys will never 
allow them to say radioactive 
exposures are harmful to the 
public." 

demeanor. Already, the uni­versity has paid $9,400 for re­pairs done by a professional in art restoration. 
At the hearing, the head of conservation and registration for the Stanford Art Museum Susan Roberts-Manganelli stat­ed that "the work would not have ben done had the vandal­ism not occurred" and that only minor repairs had been planned before the incident in­volving Irwin took place. 
Deputy District Attorney Valerie Marchant stated, "It's like if you had a dent in your car and then someone came and broadsided you. When you repair your car door for being broadsided, you will also repair the dent." 
Irwin's lawyer also argued that the university could have found someone to repair the statue at a lower cost. 
The university only took one estimate of repairs from one of three qualified art restorers in the Bay Area, citing that Tracy Power, the restorer, as the one who knew the most about the work. 
Another preliminary hearing for Irwin is scheduled for November 15. 
-Stanford Daily reporter Justin Pollard contributed to this article. 

Council promotes hemp at U. of Miami 
By ZOE MARIN 
Assistant Campuses Editor 
A group of people at the Uni­versity of Miami are taking the 
hemp plant pretty seriously. The group, officially called 
the Hemp Awareness Council 
(HAC), advocates the commer­cial uses of the plant as well as the medical benefits it offers. HAC believes that hemp is a fa­
vorable natural resource, us­
able in many industries. "The fact is that it is ridicu­lous that it is not 
glaucoma, tumors, nausea, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, back pain and muscle spasms. 
Currently only eight people in 
the United States are allowed to use Hemp legally for medical 
p~h~s~~·uncil reaches out to 
people by planning benefits and projects, which recently in­eluded a concert held in October featuring four local 
bands. The money the council raises from the benefits is usually used for fliers and making 
used. Food, fuel,r-------------,information con-
fiber, and medi­cine are only a few of the uses," said Brent Gimpel, vice 
f

president o the 
HAC, to the 
M i a m i Hurricane. "You can run your car on it!" Hemp can be used to produce 
oil, methanol for fuel, and bio­mass charcoal for energy. The plant is also an efficient crop as well as beneficial envi­
ronmentally. "One acre of hemp can pro­
duce four times more paper
than one acre of trees in less 
than one quarter of the time,"
said Gimpel. 
Hemp has been known to aid in the treatment of Asthma, cerning hemp readily available. The cost of obtain­ing research reports can be 
high.
However, the 

group has had a hard time with people taking their cause seriously. 
"The main reason the council is so concerned with presenting the facts on hemp is because 
the people tend to be misin­
formed," Gimpel said. Gimpel said HAC attempted to submit a letter to the Miami 
Hurricane, but it was edited. 
"I was offended because the 
main reason of the letter was to 
truly present facts and give people an idea about our 
cause," said Gimpel. 
Students apply to med schools in record numbers 
WASHINGTON 

A record 45,365 people applied to the 126 U.S. medical schools, including almost 19,000 women. 
The bumper pool of appli­cants included 5,060 members of minority groups in medicine, including blacks, Mexican­Americans, mainland Puerto Ricans, American Indians and Alaska natives, the Association of American Medical Colleges said Wednesday. 
The 16,287 students who be­gan their medical education this fall included more than 2,000 .of those minority appli­cants, or 12.4 percent. 
"Medical education has reached a major milestone in its 25-year effort to increase the presence of underrepre­sented minorities in medicine," said Dr. Jordan J. Cohen, the president of the medical col­leges association. 
The colleges have set a goal of pushing their first-year en­rollment from these minority groups to 3,000 within six years. 
The applicants, by their own description, looked like this: 
-64 percent were white; 
-19 percent were Asian-American or Pacific Islanders; -8 percent were black; -2 percent were Mexican-
American; -2 percent were other His­panic; -Fewer than 1 percent were mainland Puerto Ricans. 
-Fewer than 1 percent were American Indians or Alaska natives. 
-Almost 1 percent were from the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. 



VIEWPOINT 
page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jakr Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan ControUer ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the studenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editot-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor_. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to aU readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
Monday, November 7, 1994 


• RIGHT OR WRONG? 

Is Our Lady and her policies getting out of hand? 
On June 30, 1996, Dr. Timothy O'Meara will leave the Office of Provost. Although he had "asked that his term as provost be limited to four years," The observer, Aug. 26, 1978, p.4, his succes­sive appointments for a total of 18 years will make Dr. O'Meara's term of office perhaps the most significant in the his­tory of Notre Dame, second only to the 35-year service of President Father Theodore Hesburgh as President. 
The Provost and other administrators have acted throughout in what they have honestly seen as the best interest of Notre Dame. Nevertheless, it is not unfair to suggest that four prevailing policies have negatively altered the character of Notre Dame and ought to be re-evaluated before 1996: 
1. 
The Devaluation of Undergraduate Education. The primary focus of Notre Dame had been the education of under­graduates in the Catholic tradition, with graduate studies and research playing a balanced role. However, the defining mark of the past 16 years is the redefini­tion of Notre Dame as a National Catholic Research University. "The rep­utations of universities," said President Father Malloy, "are driven by the research and graduate programs, not by the undergraduate schools." The Observer, Feb. 12, 1992, p.7. The offi­cial rhetoric claims that teaching and research are equally important, but undergrads and untenured faculty know better. Members of our family have been undergrads at Notre Dame every year from 1977 to 1994, in a wide variety of disciplines. Our experience supports the conclusion, admittedly anecdotal and subjective but supported by the views of others, that, in terms of the variety of available courses, class size, quality of teaching, and the general recognition of students as persons, the quality of the undergrad experience at Notre Dame has significantly deteriorated since 1977. 

2. 
The Overbuilding of the Campus. Since 1978, at least 16 major buildings 


have been added to the campus. These additions are, of course, permanent and the end is not in sight. During that peri­od, two-thirds, at least, of the intramur­al athletic fields have been paved over or built upon with new structures, including what may be the most super­fluous stadium in the history of baseball. In a research university, presumably, students will be more interested in spec-
Charles Rice 


tator sports and coffee house discus­sions than in participatory athletics. The growing impersonality of the undergrad experience is reflected in the architec­ture of some of the major additions, including De Bartolo, a rendering in brick of the concept of five half-pint milk cartons on line, which was described at its opening, by The observer editor Stephen Zavetoski, as "a factory of learning and not an environment for reflection and contemplation." The Observer, Sept. 18, 1992, p.2. 
The overbuilding of the campus also creates problems of safety through the remoteness of parking. These problems will be aggravated by the inevitable multi-story parking garage, which will be the fitting monument to the policies of our leaders. 
3. The Pressure on Students to Mortgage their Futures to Finance the University's Pursuit of Research Greatness. Father Hesburgh recently noted that the University budget in 1945 was only $6.5 million, while today it costs about $1 million a day to operate. That increase is an accomplishment. So, too, is the increase in the room, board and tuition package, which in 1945-46 totaled $1,909. That package in 1978­79, at the start of the O'Meara era, totaled $5,180. Adjusted for inflation, using the Consumer Price Index, the 1978-79 cost totaled $10,026 in terms of 1992 dollars. With the 1994-95 package at $21,000, Notre Dame students now pay more than twice, in real money, what students paid at the start of the O'Meara era. 
The federal student loan program has been the "Big Rock Candy Mountain" for aspiring research universities. They, including Notre Dame, have urged Congress to increase the amount and availability of such loans. As the loan limits go up, so does the tuition. Notre Dame makes a commendable effort to provide fina!lcial aid, but such aid usu­ally does not click in until the student has borrowed as much as he can. The University then will try to bridge the gap between the student's resources, includ­ing borrowed funds, and the cost. Provost O'Meara has described the Notre Dame budget as "tuition driven." And so it is. However, Notre Dame, as with other universities, finances its pur­suit of research greatness by using the government as a lever to shift the bur­den to its students, inducing those who are not wealthy or recipients of special aid to incur loans that will distort their career, marriage and family options. Though it is far from the worst offender, it is immoral-a betrayal of trust-for Notre Dame to play this exploitative game. 
Meanwhile, the Endowment approach­es one billion dollars, with a balance of $879 million on June 30, 1994, and with little observable impact in relieving the financial burdens on students. We are, however, rising in the ranking of endow­ments among the major universities. 
Finally, one of the least accessible sta­tistics at Notre Dame is the size and growth of the non-faculty staff (or bureaucracy). Would it not be of interest to the students who borrow the money to pay the bill, for the University to dis­close in detail the size of the University staff for each year over the past two decades? 
4. "Roll-your-own" Catholicism as the Religion of Notre Dame. The ongoing debate on its "Catholic character" assumes that it is up to the Notre Dame community to define the term, "Catholic university," and that the definition of that term by the teaching Church­defined by the Second Vatican Council as the bishops in union with the Pope­is not binding on Notre Dame. Last year Notre Dame and other "Catholic" uni­versities rejected the ordinances pro­posed by the American bishops to imple­ment Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the constitu­tion on Catholic higher education issued by the Pope in 1990. 
Ex Corde requires, among other things, that "Catholic theologians, aware that they fulfill a mandate received from the Church, are to be faithful to the magisterium of the Church as the authentic interpreter of sacred Scripture and sacred tradition." As the end of the O'Meara stewardship nears, it will be useful to address the "truth-in-labeling" issue presented by Notre Dame's claim, especially in fund-raising, to be a Catholic university while it is reluctant to accept the definition of that term by the person-the Pope-who has ultimate authority to define it. Indeed, Notre Dame's determination to define "Catholic university" according to its own terms, is at the root of the other problems noted here. Notre Dame has substituted, for the authority of the Vicar of Christ, the more peremptory authority and criteria of the secular aca­demic establishment. 
This is an appropriate time for recon­sideration of all these policies. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Monday. 

•  DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
NEIL-6tT'3 NAIUI? IN ?HE SSL ~ANI?AL-, J/JVIOR !5Acal5EP OF IN'310&R. 7RAOING, ANO Jt/3 /LJ/3/31&5 ON !3EHAlF CF A !3USIN&S5 A'3500ATE LA7ER/NO!t/TWFOR 8R!/313RY.  HEY, NON& OF THEM IN JAIL-Yfl. JU5TMARV&L.OU5. GfJTTA 13& PROUO.  

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
''Thehighest result of 
education is tolerance." 
-Helen Keller 






ACCENT ­
Monday, November 7, 1994 page 9 
• fRESH THOUGHTS 
PDA: Get a room 

Relationships at Notre Dame, although they start as innocent "hook ups" often blossom into long-term rela­tionships and sometimes even marriage. With long-term relationships being the accepted norm, there are sur­prisingly few public displays 

of affection, aside from hold-Dave Griffith ing hands and sloppy drunks Accent Columnist groping each other as they walk their loved ones to their dorm. 
I was relieved to discover the lack of affection because I came from a high school where couples engaged in affectionate activities. deemed punish­able by death in Du Lac , in the middle of the halls. I considered myself lucky to attend a uni­versity where such annoying practices are looked down upon. Until one day... 
Since coming to NO many people have told me the best place to study is the 12th and 13th floors of the library because they are very quiet, and that the second floor was a more of a social area. Yes, very social as I found out. 
One Sunday evening I sat in a big , comfy chair in the corner of the second floor, by the window looking out towards Stonehenge, reading the Catholic Study Bible. From my chair, I had a full view of the room; I noticed everything. As I looked up from the suspense-filled Gospel of Mark, I noticed people slumped in their chairs reading, people working diligently on their chem­istry, and finally two students who appeared to be helping each other with some calculations. The guy leaned over her shoulder as she punched numbers into her calculator, blowing in her ear every once in awhile and whispering sweet noth­ings like, 
"Find the derivative like the bad girl you are, that's it, I love it when you do that." Then lean­ing over further putting his hands on her shoul­ders whispering, "How about doing a cosine for daddy...like this" pushing the "cos" button sug­gestively. The guy seemed aroused by the mathe­matical operations the girl executed quickly yet sensually with her nimble, probing fingers. 
After the girl finished her work (pushing all the right buttons), she put her calculator away and the couple began staring longingly into each others' eyes. They then began fawning over other proclaiming their love in a touching dia­logue. 
Guy: I love you. 
Girl: No, love you. 
Guy: Did I mention how much I love you? 
Girl: Yes, you did loveybumps. 
The two sat there for five minutes cooing and talking in tones that one would use to address an infant or a dog. Becoming sick to my stomach, I returned to my reading. Reading along I began to think to myself, "Dave this is none of your busi­ness. Those two kids are free to do what the hell they want! After all, this is America, the land of the free and all that stuff, and if they want to act nauseatingly lovey dovey more power to them." 
Just then I looked up and right there in front of the whole second floor the couple was engaged in a lip lock with roughly the suction power of a Black and Decker weVdry vacuum. Quickly I glanced back to the Bible so that the other people near me would not think I was some perverted sicko. 
But then I thought, what right does this couple have to infringe on my study time by interrupting my reading, the Bible no less, with their primitive urges! It bordered on being sacreligious. 
So, I tried to ignore the couple that was hook­ing up center stage right in front of me. I could not concentrate with all the smacking and gur­gling going on. Just as I was about to get up and leave, the couple pried their faces apart and they immediately began cooing over each other in a barrage of pet names and pleasantries. 
Thinking the worst was over, I began to read 
again, but no sooner had I read one page the two 
were at it again. This time it was more than I 
could stomach. With my dinner rising in my 
throat, I got up and left going up to the 12th floor 
where I finished my reading peace. 
To the two love birds I am writing about, you 
know who you are, I do not mean to single you 
out but you were making out in the library for 
goodness sake. At least get a group study room 
next time. To the rest of the Notre Dame couples, 
you are to be commended on the great restraint 
you show to keep our campus free from public 
displays of affection. 

A different twist on a new football tradition 
By KRISTI BRODERICK Accent Writer 

This year, Michigan was blind­ed by a sea of green. Last year, Northwestern was engulfed by navy blue wave. And, two years ago, Michigan was attacked by a forest green monster. All of these different roles were played by the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student body. For the past four years, loyal students have eagerly donned "the Shirt" to show support for the Notre Dame football team in the open­ing home game of each season. 
Beginning in 1990, the Shirt project started as a fund-raiser for AnTostal. Since then, it has come out from under the wings of the Student Union Board and become its own project. The Shirt has become increasingly popular, especially in the last three years beginning with the forest green design featuring Lou Holtz and the Mount 
Rushmore motif. Alumni and Notre Dame students show their support by wearing The Shirt. fans are starting to ask for the-------------------------------­

shirt by name and the project continues to grow according to Matt Macura, Executive Coordinator of the Shirt project. 
The Shirt project, Notre Dame's largest fund-raiser, is beginning its fifth year with a new twist. For the first time. a contest is being held to determine the design for the 1995 Shirt. In the past, the design has been determined by the coordinators of the Shirt project. As the official shirt of the student body, the design contest offers students an opportuni­ty to showcase the image Notre Dame conjures up in their mind, and possibly have it worn on the backs of nearly 50,000 people. 
The Shirt committee guidelines for entry state that any student may sub­mit a design that they feel best reflects Notre Dame and its football tradition. Students are not required to submit a polished piece of art­work; ideas, concepts or simple drawings are the only requirements. The most important requirement in the incorporation of a theme with the entry -prior themes include The Tradition Continues, Onward To Victory and Wake Up The Echoes. 
Upon selecting a winner, the design will be perfected by a professional artist; however, the winning student will be credited with the design. The winner of the design contest receives free books for the spring semester, compliments of the Notre Dame bookstore. The deadline for the con­test is November 21, 1994. 
According to Macura, one of the goals of the Shirt project is to keep the focus on the students. Macura said, "We felt students should be involved with the designing of the shirt rather than an outside artist. We wanted to bring the project back into the realm of the University and to the students since it is supposed to 
.be their project." 

The Dark Continent revealed through film 
By SHANNON FORBES 
Accent Writer 

Africa, long known as the "dark continent," is still a mystery to many people. This week part of the "dark continent" will be revealed. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have an opportunity to open their minds up to the mystery that has re­mained hidden within Africa for many decades, thanks to the Notre Dame African Students' Association and Educational Media. 
Thfs week the Notre Dame African Students' Association and Educational Media are hosting the annual African Film Festival. Each night at 7 p.m. a different film will be showing in room 119 of Debartolo hall. Guillaume Zollnlome, President of the African Students' Association, hopes that the films will inform peo­ple about African heritage, hard­ships, and experiences. According to Zollnlome, "The goal of the film festi­val is to help bring the races together and to alleviate tensions that may exist between them. The African Students' Association wishes to inform people about African life and to share our experiences with them so people will be aware of and understand our lifestyles". 
Monday night's film is entitled "Saamba" by Amadou Seck of Senegal. The film depicts a genera­tion of African youth who are alien­ated from adult society, uncertain of its future, and seeking escape through involvement with drugs, mil­lenarian politics, and sex. 
Tuesday night's film is entitled "Wend Kuuni" by Gaston Kabore from Burkina Faso. This film is about a mute, child with no memory who is found under a tree by a ped­dler an d is adopted by the peddler's village. This film depicts how bigotry and cruelty ironically drive Wend Kuuni to discover the compassion of his adopted village. 
Wednesday's film is entitled "Finzan" by Cheick Oumar Sissoko from Mali. This film illustrates the story of two women's rebellion. Nanyuma, a young widow, refuses her brother-in-law when he asserts his traditional rights to "inherit" her. Gili, a young girl sent from the city by her conservative father, is brutal­ly "circumcised" by the village women who are appalled when she resists their age-old custom. 
Thursday night's film is entitled "Zan Boko" by Gaston Kabore from Burkina Faso. This film tells the story of a village swallowed up by one of Africa's sprawling cities. Through this event, the film reveals the transformation of both an agrari­an, subsistence society into an indus­trialized, commodity economy and an oral culture into a mass media culture. 
Friday night's film is entitled "Neria" by Godwin Mawuru from Zimbabwe. This film is about two characters named Patrick and Neria who succeed in obtaining a comfort­able life. When Patrick tragically dies, however, Neria is thrown into and awful nightmare. Claiming that tradition and the law are on his side, Patrick's brother, Phineas, tries to "inherit" everything. Neria watches helplessly at first, but when Phineas takes her children, Neria decides she must fight back. She eventually learns that law and tradition will prevail if she remains strong and fights for her rights. 
Admission is free and all ftlms will be followed by discussions. Guillaume Zollnlome feels that the discussions are the most important aspect of the festival. He says, "The discussions will allow people to ask questions and to examine and ana­lyze different issues present in the film. Doing so will help people learn through others' thoughts and opin­ions about the ftl.ms." 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 7, 1994 
•Nft 

Games highlighted by last minute victories 
By RICHARD ROSENBLATT Associated Press 

Dan Marino and Warren Moon are used to winning games in the final seconds. So is Pittsburgh's Gary Anderson. But Doug Pelfrey? 
Pelfrey gave Cincinnati its rrrst victory of the season with his sixth field goal, a 26-yarder, with 6:46 left in overtime Sunday to beat Seattle 20-17 in the Seahawks' return to the Kingdome. 
Marino rallied the Miami Dolphins for 10 points in the fi­nal four minutes Sunday, lifting them to a 22-21 victory over the Indianapolis Colts on Pete Stoyanovich's 34-yard field goal with four seconds left. 
"After you do it a number of times, you believe you can do it," Marino said after his 28th rmal-quarter comeback victory. 
Moon didn't rely on a field goal for Minnesota as he passed 11 yards to Qadry Ismail with five seconds left and the Vikings beat the New Orleans Saints 21-20. 
"When you know you need it, Warren will come in and say, 'This is what we've got to do, everybody listen,"' Vikings re­ceiver Jake Reed said. "And everbody listens." 
And then there was Anderson, who kicked a 40­yard field goal -his fourth of the game -with 3:36 left in overtime to lift the Steelers to a 12-9 win over the Houston Oilers. 
"I'd like to kick it every time," Anderson said. "It's just like playing golf. If you take a good swing at the ball you're going to hit it well." 
The victories left the Dolphins (7 -2) atop the AFC East, the Vikings (7-2) in front in the NFC Central and the Steelers at 6-3 in the AFC Central. 
In other games, it was: 
Philadelphia 17, Arizona 7; Cleveland 13, New England 6; Los Angeles Rams 27, Denver 21; Atlanta 10, San Diego 9; San Francisco 37, Washington 22; Chicago 20, Tampa Bay 6 and Green Bay 38, Detroit 30. 
The Los Angeles Raiders were at Kansas City in a Sunday night game. 
Bengals 20, Seahawks 17, OT 

At Seattle, the Bengals didn't score a TD, but got the points they needed from Pelfrey, who set a club record by converting on kicks of 36, 44, 36, 47, and 28 yards before his game-win­ner. 
A 76-yard pass from Jeff Blake (31-for-43 for 387 yards) to rookie Darnay Scott set up the winning points. Pelfrey forced the overtime with his 28­yarder withy 4:27 left in regula­tion. 
Cincinnati (1-8) didn't win until its 11th game last season. The Bengals also had a safety in handing the Seahawks (3-6) their nfth loss in a row. 
The Kingdome had been closed since July 19 after ceil­ing tiles fell before a baseball game. 
Dolphins 22, Colts 21 

At Miami, Marino (30-for-41 for 261 yards) bounced back from a costly fourth-quarter in­terception to rally Miami. Cornerback Ray Buchanan ap­peared to sew up a victory for the Colts (4-6) when he inter­cepted a pass and returned it 28 yards for a TD with 7:32left. 
Marino then hit O.J McDuffie on a 28-yard TD pass with 3:52 left and the Dolphins got the ball right back. Marino com­pleted five passes in a row to the 17 before Stoyanovich kicked the winner. 
Miami runnning backs Bernie Parmalee (right knee, shoulder) and fullback Keith Byars (right knee) were both injured. The Colts' Don Majkowski injured his right thumb and was replaced late in the second quarter by Jim Harbaugh. 
Vikings 21, Saints 20 
At Minneapolis, Moon moved Minnesota 84 yards in 13 plays after the Saints (3-6) had taken the lead on two field goals by Morten Andersen. The quar­terback was 8-for-12 for 86 yards on winning drive, includ­ing a 4-yard, fourth-down com­pletion to Amp Lee at the New Orleans 27. 
Moon finished 33-for-57 for 420 yards and two TDs. 
It was the second straight home game in which Moon ral­lied the Vikings on their final drive. On Oct. 20, he led a late drive for a tying field goal against Green Bay, then led Minnesota to the winning kick on the opening drive of over­time. 
Steelers 12, Oilers 9, OT 
At Houston, Gary Brown's fumble gave Anderson the one extra kick Pittsburgh needed. In a game with no touchdowns, the only turnover set up Anderson's winning field goal. 
Anderson also had kicks of 50, 39 and 37 yards. Al Del Greco made kicks of 32 and 49 yards before his 38-yarder with seven seconds left in regulation tied it at 9. The Oilers (1-8) lost their fifth in a row. 
Eagles 17, Cardinals 7 
At Philadelphia, Randall Cunningham threw two long TD passes to Fred Barnett in the third quarter as the Eagles spoiled Buddy Ryan's return to the Vet. The Eagles' defense produced two turnovers and five sacks against Arizona (3-6). 
Ryan was greeted by a cas­cade of boos as he came onto the field before the game. There were several signs and banners hung inside the sta­dium, some razzing him and others praising the former coach. 
Cunningham was 15-for-24 for 201 yards and also chipped in 63 yards on eight carries for Philadelphia (7-2). Barnett's scoring passes were 47 and 50 yardls as he caught a career­best 11 passes for 173 yards. 
Browns 13, Patriots 6 
At Cleveland, Leroy Hoard ran for 123 yards and scored on a 1-yard pass from Mark Rypien as the Browns (7-2) are off to their best start since 196!i. 
Drew Beldsoe threw for 166 yards, nearly half of it in the fourth quarter, and was inter­cepted four times as the op­rated passing team was both­ered wind gusts of up to 40 mph. Eric Turner had two of the Interceptions. 
Rypien filled in for Vinny Testaverde (concussion) and was 14-for-28 for 164 yards. New England fell to 3-6. 
Rams 27, Broncos 21 
At Anaheim, Calif., Chris Chandler threw two TD passes that helped Los Angeles to a 21-point lead and the Rams (4­
5) held off another fourth-quar­ter eomeback by John Elway. 
Elway threw a pair of TDs in the final period, and got a final chance when the Broncos (3-6) took over at the Los Angeles 48 with 2:28 left. He gained three yards on two completions and then skipped a pass to Shannon Sharpe on fourht down. 
Falcons 10, Chargers 9 
At Atlanta, no touchdowns, no victory for the Chargers. For the second time in three games, San Diego got its points on John Carney field goals, while Jeff George threw a 9-yard TD pass to Terance Mathis in the first quarter and Norm Johnson's 23-yard field goal proved to be the winning points for the Falcons (5-4). 
The Chargers (7-2). with Gale Gilbert starting for the injured Stan Humphries, had a TO called back because of an inter­ference penalty and Carney, who extended his streak to 21 field goals in a row, missed on his No. 22, a 47-yarder that sailed wide right with 8:01 left. 
49ers 37, Redskins 22 

At Washington, the big-play 49ers struck in almost every way, with Dexter Carter scoring on a 96-yard kickoff return, Tim McDonald on a 73-yard interception return and Jerry Rice on a 28-yard reverse. In the first half, Steve Young (15­for-25 for 291 yards) hit Brent Jones for a 69-yard score and ran a yard for another TD for San Francisco (7-2). 
The Redskins (2-8) are win­less in six games at RFK, their worst start at home since 1961. Gus Frerotte was 15-of-32 for 167 yards and two intercep­tions before John Friesz re­placed him in the fourth quar­ter. 
Bears 30, Buccaneers 6 

At Tampa, Fla., Steve Walsh improved to 4-0 as Chicago's starter by throwing second-half TD passes to Keith Jennings and Robert Green. Walsh, start­ing for the first time with a healthy Erik Kramer on the bench, helped the Bears (5-4) bounce back from a 27-point loss to Green Bay last Monday night. 
Rookie Trent Dilfer, making his second pro start for Tampa Bay (2-7), had to hurry many of his passes and finished 13-for­25 for 159 yards. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
EARN INCOME  Spring Break Early Specials!  PLEASE! I need 2 studenttix or  2 FSU GA TIX FOR SALE.  "Tom"  
NOTICES  HAVE FUN MARKETING ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY PRODUCTS, HOLIDAY GIFT  Bahamas Party Cruise, 6 days & 12 meals $2791 Panama City Oceanview Kitchens $1291 Cancun  GA's to Air Force. Call Kristy at x2562  CALL LIX W/BEST OFFER -284-4342  Days and days of glorious time, I found a girl I could call mine. There was no doubt she was the  
USED BOOKS & CLIFF'S NOTES Pandora's Books 233-2342 ND Ave & Howard M-Sa/10-6 Sun 9-3 cool stuff cool store HANDCRAFTED GIFTS from around the world. GLOBAL GIFTS at Lafortune Student Center, Nov. 10 & 11, Room 108, 9am-6pm.  BASKETS. CALL ME TODAY, START MAKING MONEY TOMORROW -674-9634. Wanted!!! Individuals and Student Organizations to Promote SPRING BREAK '95. Earn substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­800-327-6013  & Jamaica $399! Day1ona $1591 Keys $229! CocoaBeach $15911­800-678-6386 EA HOCKEY for IBM 1994 players with trades, etc... almost brand new, has all books and the registration form. best offer; call Tom at4-1712  FLORIDA STATE TICKETS FOR SALE 277-1659 I NEED AF GA's DAVE 634-1198 One plane ticket to Orlando for sale. Best offer. Call x2771.  $$ for 4 (together) GA's. tix for Air Force (11/19). Need for alum. com­ing from out of State. Call 1-800­243-6325, ext.345 by 5 PM. Mon. 11/7. Lv message if not available. FOR SALE: 2 FSU GA's 255-7961 after 6p FOR SALE-2 AF GA's, 2 AF st 2 USC GA's-X2818  one for me, I told her every1hing and thought,so did she. I tried to do every1hing right and made sure to do no wrong, But why am I singing such a sad song? The brother I wished to have couldn't possibly do me wrong; But he did and now he's gone. Love, J.Crew  
-:-­ WANTED  Anyone going to or through KY Wed., Nov. 20? 2 need ride. Will  '93 Camero Z28, 6-speed, pw, pdl, abs, Clarion CD player, alarm, 1Ok miles  HELP!! Need 2 GA's or stud tix for Air Force call AMY 277-4612  AF, SO.CAL & FSU GA'S FOR SALE. 288-1186.  Quality Copies, Quickly!!! 000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
STUDENT TRAVEL SALES!  help pay expenses. x2521 ask for  never seen winter. $18,000.  Need two Air Force GAs Lesl:ie 273­ Lafortune Student Center  
Sunchase Tours is seeking ambi- Ann or Jen.  Call4-1970  9303  Need 1 AF Student Ticket  Phone 631-COPY  
tious sales reps to promote ski and  call David @ 288-9760  
beach trips for Spring Break '95! Earn cash and free trips. CAll today: 1-800 SUNCHASE.  LOCAL CONSULTING FIRM SEEKS SALES/MKTG. ASST. FOR 94/95 SCHOOL YEAR. FLEX. HRS.  GOOD TRANSPORTATION-'84 Toyota Corolla LE., $1300. Call Cathi 287-0363.  I need 7 Air Force tickets or as many as you have. Call Dave at x1891.  PERSONAL  We're Open Early, Late, & Weekends!!! ()()() THE COPY SHOP 000 Lafortune Student Center  
HOURLY WAGE & COMM.  4SALE:  2 USC GA'S II  x3,l73  Notre Dame's Traditional Irish Band  Phone 631-COPY  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Seasonal and Full-Time employ­ment available. No experience nee­essary. For more information call 1­ GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO GAIN VALUABLE SALES EXP (219) 256-9546. FOR RENT  TICKETS I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS. 272-6551 FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL HOME GAMES. 272-7233.  I HAVE 2 FLA ST TIX FOR SALE CHRIS 1-6696 I have 2 FSU GA's for sale. Gall Anne at312-907-8075 with your offer. Leave a message with your phone # if not home.  ... Seamaisin ....1st CD at the Bookstore, 2cd one by X-Mas Kiddo, I'm working on today, that is alii can do. For now anyway. ·-An lllinios Farmer  Carrie: Hope all is well with you and Cheyne. I haven't seen either of you online. Please answer your e­mail, or call me 612.647.6675. Mark Get Stoned!!!! Get Stoned!!!! Get Stoned!!II Get Stoned! Ill  
206-634-0468 ext. C55841  THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED  Need:  Watch tomorrow's paper for BP Bits  Get Stoned!!!!  Get Stoned!!!!  
BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  It's my dad's 50th Birthday and I  Air Force GAs (2 or 4 togethtlr)  Delilah,  Come See Oliver Stone on  
TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK '95! LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA,  NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­ want to make his day. You can help mel! Sell me  call Marc at X3309 or X3300  Happy Birthday --<--@  Wed. November 9 at 7:30 in Stepan Center.  
CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE. BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1  773-2034  FOUR AIR FORCE GAS Please????!!  NEED 2 air force GAs & 2 studs call shannon x4236  --<--@ Mooo,  Tix on Sale at Lafortune, $3  
ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL  Thanks. Michelle 284-5512  Rob  To The Notre Dame  
FREE! SUN SPLASH TOURS1­800-426-7710 Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break Sailing Cruise! Free brochure 1 (800)359-9808  FOR RENT: NEXT TO CAMPUS­FURNISHED STUDIO APT. AVAILABLE NOWIII CALL DIONE AT 273-6381/ LEAVE MESSAGE. FOR SALE  I NEED 3 AF GAs! Sam X4872 NEED 4 GA TICKETS FOR AIR­FORCE GAME IN EXCHANGE FOR CASH AND A JOB. CALL LARRY OR KATHY (708)495-2711.  Need Ticketslll 4 Air Force GA's Call Sean at 4-0602 2 Air Force GA's for Sale 23!;-3394 1 FSU TIX for sale, Call Christina @284-5543  00000000000000000000000000 1. The kite is gone from the tree in front of Zahm 2. But the swimmer is still wearing that ugly red+white hat. -Ron 00000000000000000000000000  Symphony/Orchestra The concert Thursday evening was wonderful. Keep up the good work. A Grateful Listener Nelanie and Carrie are simply the cutest women on this campusl!l  

Monday, November 7, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• TENNIS • PROFESSIONAl Bmmm 
Doubles serve up victory Foreman regains 
top-seeded team in the tour­Schwab and Lord both ad­
Crabtree, Lord 
nament and are ranked No. 12 vanced to the round of 16 in the in the country by the singles.
capture title, Intercollegiate Tennis On the men's side, junior Association. The Notre Dame Mike Sprouse defeated Richard
Sprouse duo will now advance to the Watson of Michigan State 6-2, Rolex National Indoor 7-5, to advance to the semi ­
advances to Championship which will be finals this morning at held in Dallas during February. Wisconsin. The finals will be
semi-finals in played later today. Crabtree and Lord battledsingles their way through the tourna­In the first two rounds, ment with two-set victories in Sprouse defeated Minnesota's 
Observer Staff Report 
the first and second round. In Adam Cohen and Ben Gabler, their last three matches, the 7-6, 6-2 and 6-2, 6-4, respec­Both the men's and women's 
Notre Dame duo dropped the tively.
tennis teams competed over the first set and came back to win Irish sophomore Ryan Simmeweekend in the Rolex Regional 
the next two. was upset on Saturday byChampionships. 
Michigan State's Jason Bedford
The women traveled to 
In singles action, Crabtree 6-3, 6-1, leaving Sprouse aloneMichigan State where juniors 
advanced to the semifinals be­in the quarterfmals. 
Wendy Crabtree and Holyn 
fore losing to Lauren Gavaris of The Notre Dame doublesLord defeated Camille Baldrich 
Wisconsin. Crabtree is the No. teams of Steve Flanigan andand Kristen Jones by scores of 11-ranked player in the coun­Jacub Pietrowski and Sprouse2-6, 6-4, 6-3 to win the cham­try, while Gavaris is No. 47. and Jason Pun also advanced to pionship in the Rolex Regionals. 
Notre Dame senior Laura the quarterfmals yesterday. 
Crabtree and Lord were the 
•NBA 



Robinson smiles in debut 
By ARNIE STAPLETON The Robinson era had begun. The sides agreed in principle Associated Press "It was a great feeling," to a deal Thursday, but they Robinson said. "It was some­spent three days finalizing the 
MILWAUKEE 

thing I've been dreaming about pact.
The Milwaukee Bucks had 
since I picked up a basketball, Robinson, armed with four or 
been waiting for this moment 
playing at the pro level." five plays from coach Mike 
ever since they won the NBA 
Less than an hour earlier, Dunleavy's playbook, received a 
lottery on May 22. 
Robinson's agent, Charles thunderous ovation when he 
Former Purdue star Glenn 
Tucker, and the Bucks had started the second quarter
Robinson said he'd been wait­
scrambled to put the finishing against the Los Angeles Lakers. 
ing for it ever since he first 
touches on the No. 1 draft The crowd was on edge as he 
picked up a basketball when he 
pick's 10-year, $'68.15 million came spinning off a pick and 
was about 5 years old. 
contract. put up his first shot as a pro.
When he walked out onto the 
Robinson, a 6-7, 240-pound The 15-footer rimmed out. 
Bradley Center floor Saturday 
All-American forward who led He finished with eight points 
night, the centerpiece of a daz­
the nation in scoring last year and four rebounds in 13 min­zling pre-game ceremony that 
at Purdue, sat out all of training utes. But he also picked up
included laser lights and fire­
camp before relinquishing his three fouls and five turnovers. 
works, Robinson couldn't help 
goal of becoming pro sports' All in all, Robinson said he 
but smile. 
first $100 million athlete. was pleased. 

title with lucky jab 
By ED SCHUYLER Jr. to the pitcher who was 46 Associated Press when he retired. "George is going to bring new 
LAS VEGAS 
fans to the sport," said Seth 

It was a last-second pass 
Abraham, president of Time­

caught in the end zone, a 
Warner Sports. "The combined 

bases-loaded homer in the bot­
live and delayed telecast will 

tom of the ninth, a buzzer-beat­
make it the most-watched fight 

ing basket from midcourt. 
ever on HBO." 

All of those things were 
"When miracles like this hap­

packed into the boxing glove 
pen, how can it be bad for box­

that crashed against Michael 
ing?" said Angelo Dundee, who 

Moorer's jaw and made George 
worked in Foreman's corner 

Foreman a heavyweight cham­
and was in Muhammad Ali's 

pion at the ripe old age of 45. 
corner when Foreman lost the 

But was Foreman's dramatic 
undisputed title 20 years ago in 

lOth-round knockout victory 
Zaire. 

Saturday night good for box­ing? What does it say about the 
"Yeah, George's win is good

state of the sport, particularly 
for boxing because people

the heavyweight division? 
know who George Foreman is," 

"George got lucky, but it just 
Holmes said. "What's wrong

shows what boxing is like to­
with boxing is the money.

day," said Larry Holmes, a 
People don't get to see fights

champion from 1978 to 1985, 
because the money's so big

who will challenge Oliver 
fighters don't fight much." 

McCall on Jan. 21 for the WBC 
Big purses lead to inactivity,

heavyweight title. 
which keep fighters from de­

"These young guys can't 
veloping a marketable name or 

fight. We older people have to 
makes them to fade from the 

teach these young people that 
public consciousness. 

we know what we're doing," 
Another cause of dry spells 

Holmes said from his home in 
between attractive bouts is that

Easton, Pa. 
long negotiations are needed 

Foreman took advantage of a 
between megabuck fighters

lapse of concentration by the 
over issues such as television 

26-year-old Moorer in deliver­
and live-site rights. 

ing the winning two-punch 
Boxing suffers from not

combination. 
enough names that are known 

"All he (Moorer) had to do 
to the general public. It is clut­

was use the jab and move side 
tered with needless weight di­

to side," Holmes said. 
visions and champions recog­

In the lOth round, however, 
nized by a growing number of 

Moorer stood in front of 
governing bodies, seemingly set 

Foreman. 
up overnight. 

"George is a big truck, but if 
As for the state of the heavy­

he runs over you, he'll kill 
weight division, with the ex­

you," Holmes said. "He phoned 
ceptions of the 1970s when Ali,

him from Chicago and said, 
Foreman, Holmes, Joe Frazier,

'I'm coming,' and the fool wait­
Earnie Shavers, Ken Norton 

ed there for him." 
and Jerry Quarry practiced

Promoter Bob Arum bristled 
their craft, it has never been 

at the suggestion that a 45­
deep in talent. 

year-old man winning a share 
And recently, heavyweight

of boxing's biggest prize -the 
champions have done little to 

IBF and WBA titles -made a 
add prestige to the title. So 

mockery of the sport. 
Foreman's victory was a badly

"When Nolan Ryan pitched a 
needed shot in the arm for a 

no-hitter, did they say baseball 
sport that awaits the return of 

stinks?" Arum asked, referring 
Mike Tyson. 

Notre Dame Communication a11d Theatre presents the Greek tragedy 
At Washington Hall 
Wednesday, November 16 8 p.m. Thursday, November 17 8 p.m. Friday, November 18 8 p.m. Saturday, November 19 8 p.m. Sunday, November 20 2:30 p.m. 
Reserved Seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday. 
Tickets are available at the 
-
door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
MasterCard and Visa 
orders call 631-8128. 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 7, 1994 
• SAINT MARY'S 

Belles finish season Swimmers iimprove at relays 
By ANGELA OLSON Spons Writer 
with pair of losses 
By JENNIFER LEWIS Saint Mary's Spon Editor 
Goshen College and Saint Mary's college went into Saturday's volleyball match with a tied record of 12-16. However, Goshen swept the Belles in three games (11-15, 4­15, 12-15), causing Saint Mary's to fmish their season with a disappointing loss. 
"The season did riot end on a positive note," said freshman Brenda Hoban. "We could have beaten Goshen, but we didn't start off to win." 
Because of Kelly Meyer's sprained ankle, Julie Schroeder-Biek decided to run a 6-2 offense, instead of their usual 5-1 offense. In order to rest up Meyer, middle hitter, Sara Stronzcek stepped up and aided in assisting in the first two matches. 
"For some reason, we do not play well using the 6-2 offense," said Schroeder-Biek. "It's definitely a mental block, the team is uncertain of their positions." 

Cross Country Championships 
Men  Women  
John Cowan  Notre Dame  Kristi Kramer  Notre Dame  
Nathaniel Ruder Notre Dame  Sarah Riley  Notre Dame  
Joe Dunlop  Notre Dame  Maureen Kelly  Notre Dame  


Mathew Althoff Notre Dame Kristen Dudas Notre Dame 
I -----­
The Saint Mary's swim team 
Serving errors were an abso­made a splash in last Friday's lute downfall for the Belles. Notre Dame Relay Invitational Saint Mary's played hard on the which was held at Rolf's court, by making numerous Aquatic Center. The team com­side outs; however, they were peted against three division one unable to make four serves schools; Notre Dame, Xavier over the net in the first game. College of Cincinnati, and Texas 
"We were matching them on Christian. The division III Belles defense," said Schroeder-Biek. took third place only defeating " But, we couldn't get the Xavier. points." 
The individual stats were rel­"The team did very well. The atively low compared to pre­competition was strong in many vious games. Stronzcek lead races," said Captain Tara Krull. 
the Belles with 6 kills, 10 digs, "It was a fun meet to swim and 4 blocks. Meg Kelly had 3 ing." kills, and Susie Aldrige had 9 Second year coach, Greg digs. Perhaps the reason why Janson, also felt the team did Kelly's number of kills de­well. creased was due to her spend­ing Friday evening, prior to the game, in the emergency room. Kelly had several test runs on her stomach. 
Although the season has come to an end, the Belles still plan to practice up to six hours in the off season. 
"Overall this team has been one of the best group of women I have ever coached," said Schroeder-Biek. 
~~~:: ~;~~ilwaulkee ~~;~~e~~~~~er ~~~~ilwaulket 1 Escape the South Bend COLD PeterDougherty LaSalle EmilyHood NotreDame uead SOUT'H next semester! 
Scott Lidskin Butler Becky Alferi Notre Dame flI Jason Rexing Notre Dame Joette Buening Wis-Milwaulkee 1 Ed Reilly Loyola Lindsay Dutton Notre Dame 
Men's Newcomer-of-the-Year: Jason Rexing, Notre Dame I Women's Newcomer-of-the-Year: Lindsay Dutton, Notre Dame 1 
Men's Coach-of-the-Year: Joe Piane, Notre Dame 

Student Exchanges
Women's Coach-of-the-Year: Tim Connely, Notre Dame I 
~------------------~1 

"We definitely were swim­ming season best times," said Janson. "Compared to the prior week, we swam much better." 
So far this year, two school records have been set by fresh­man Allison Smith. In last weeks meet at Wabash College, Smith broke both a school and pool record in the 200 Butterfly. At the ND Relays, Smith set a new school record in the 500 freestyle. 
"That (Smith's new record) came after her thirteenth swim of the day," said Janson, "In terms of track that is compared to running her eigth 800 of the day." 
Janson feels the team strengths lie in events 200 yards or longer. "We want to work to improve individually and as a team to improve on performance over last year, " said Janson. "We've almost ac­complished our goals already." 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 

Good luck to (Ccrurirnce and her teammates from Lewis Hall in the Football Playoffs! 
Love, Mom and Aunt Teena 
~ ----------­
I at 
I lc 

I I I I I I I I I I I I 
L-------------------~ 

page 13 Monday, November 7, 1994 
• VOLLEYBAll 
------~----~-----~------------~-------­
Irish dominate the MCC 
By BETSY BAKER 
SportS Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team con­tinued its Midwestern Collegiate Conference winning streak this weekend with its 29th and 30th consecutive con­ference victories. The wins came over Wright State on Saturday and Cleveland State on Sunday. 
The Irish, now 6-0 in the MCC this seasnn, took Wright State in three games with scores of 15-7, 15-11, and 15-10. The dominating Irish perfor­mance was led by freshman outside hit­ter Angie Harris who led the team with 21 kills and 3 service aces. Senior co­captain Nicole Coates also added to the victory with 18 kills and 5 digs. 
On Sunday, the 1Oth ranked Irish team once again impressed fans with a 15-5, 15-3, 15-11 victory over Cleveland State. The Irish held the Vikings to a 
0.061 hitting percentage and forced many receiving and blocking errors. 
Nicole Coates and sophomore Kristina Ervin led the team as they both con­tributed 9 kills to the Irish effort. 
Title 
continued from page 16 
against Butler. 
The win against Butler came in the final game of MCC play for Notre Dame. The Irish will move to the Big East Conference next season, closing their MCC affiliation without ever losing a conference match. The lone blemish on their 23-0-1 record was a 0-0 tie with Dayton in their first-ever MCC match. 
"I continue to be impressed with the way we handle difficult situations," Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said. "Even tied 0-0 at half, we didn't panic or lose control of the game. Our offense really jelled this weekend. With the exception of the first half today, we fin­ished our scoring opportunities." 
Notre Dame's 22-goal total set the all-time MCC mark for goals in a tournament, and the 10-goal performance against Xavier set the all-time single-game scoring mark. 
The Irish placed six players on the all-tour­nament team, including conference player of the year Guerrero, conference newcomer of the year Manthei, McCarthy, freshman Julie Maund, sophomore Cindy Daws, and sopho­more Jen Renola. 
David Mamet, Pulitzer Prize-winning author of "Glengarry Glen Ross," ''The Verdict," "The Untouchables," and "Speed -the-Plow," is back with what has become the most talked about 
-and argued about -play of the year. Now you can take a seat -and take a side -at 
"A riveting report from the war zone between genders. See OLEANNA!" 
-Jack Kroll, Newsweek 
Wednesday, November 16 
7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium For Tickets Call 219/284-4626 
Coates also led the team defensively with 11 digs. Her performance was a key to both victories over the weekend. 
Middle blockers Jen Briggs and Molly McCarthy also added a strong net attack. Briggs, a sophomore, was right behind Ervin and Coates with 8 kills, while McCarthy had 6. Junior Shannon Tuttle, whose 1032 assists have set the Irish to victory in every one of the previ­ous 26 matches, was given a bit of a break as freshman setter Carey May stepped in and produced a match-high 24 assists and 5 digs. 
One of the goals for the Irish is going undefeated in the conference and win­ning the MCC crown. The conference does not offer much challenge for the top-ten Irish. 
"If we continue to win in the MCC, one of our goals will be achieved," said senior co-captain Christy Peters. "But it does not give us much of a challenge." 
"It's always difficult around midsea­son," said Peters. "But things will pick up as we move toward the end, and we'll start playing 
with more of a focus. 
Season 
continued from page 16 
coaching from Brian Tompkins, the Panthers stayed focused and got back the goal in just two minutes. With 11 minutes left the Panthers continued their attack, and, with 43 sec­onds left, it paid off as Trevor Sisk headed in his second goal of the day and sent the game to 
lk-----, ate call," Berticelli said. "It was consistent. It's a heart break to lose that way, but we
lt•s Hip 
deserved to win. We kept com-
To Trip. 
London $438* Paris $518* Tel Aviv $770* Mexico City $198* Tokyo $845* Bangkok $935* 
Fero:s...,rcundb\>fromChlcBcn~sopply,tiP<es ore not lnduded ond laro:s ore subject to chong£. ean fer otherwortdwlde desUnotlons. 
Couna1 Travel 
1153 H. Dearborn Chicago, IL 60610 
312•951•0585 
Call for a FREE . Student Travels magazine!' 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling Sophomore Jen Briggs and the Irish volleyball team dominated both Wright State and Cleveland State last weekend in conference play. 
overtime at 2-2. 
"We never felt out of it," 
Tompkins said. 
"I thought it would be over in regulation," Koloskov said. "But the team made some mis­takes and it led to overtime." 
After 30 minutes of overtime, 
and into the first half of sudden 
death double overtime referee 
Rich Grady made a controver­
sial penalty call in the Panther 
box, which set up the winning . conversion from Koloskov. "I thought it was an appropri­
posure very well in overtime, and showed tremendous amount of character. " 
Of course the Panther's do not see it that way though. 
"It's a bit disappointing to have it decided, taken from the players," coach Tompkins said. "It's no way to end a game when two teams fought so hard. It leaves a bitter taste." 
Yet, the Irish may deserve such a call considering the bad luck they encountered during the season . 
"It feels great," Koloskov ex­plained. "We were struggling during the year, but we've re­turned to the way we were playing in the beginning." 
Mary's
Celebrating
Again! 
Happy 21'' Birthday! 
Love, Dad, Mom, Bo & Bean 

-
page 14 
• HOCKEY 

Flames melt Irish in weekend series 
By MICHAEL DAY Sports Writer 
To say the Notre Dame hock­ey team felt only a slightly neg­ative effect in the aftermath of their pair of tough losses to Lake Superior the previous weekend (Oct. 28-29) would be an understatement. 
The University of Illinois at Chicago proved to be the bene­ficiary of the Irish letdown, stunning Notre Dame 3-2 on Friday night at the JACC and trouncing the Irish 6-2 on Saturday. 
Friday night turned out to be a heartbreaker for the Notre Dame squad and faithful. The Flames overcame a 2-0 defecit to shock the Irish by scoring the game winning and emo­tionally draining goal with just 20 seconds remaining in the contest. 
After advancing the puck to within 20 feet of the Irish goal, Hutson found Kevin O'Keefe wide open with an angle on Notre Dame goaltender Matt Eiler. In turn, O'Keefe slid the puck past Eiler and into the net for his frrst goal of the season and to give the Flames the 3-2 victory in the process. 
"It was a big disappointment because we had the opportuni­ties to win," said defenseman Garry Gruber. "We just didn't put 60 minutes of good hockey together." 

After the game remained scoreless for the entire first pe­riod and nearly half of the sec­ond period, the Irish offense exploded for two goals within a 30 second interval. Irish left wing Jamie Morshead stole the puck from a Flame defender and shot it pass Spencer to put Notre Dame on the scoreboard with 12:10 remaining in the second period. 
Morshead wasn't finished. Just seconds later, he set up Gruber for a tough goal from long range with 11:40 left in the second period. 
"We didn't play our style of hockey," said Gruber following the second game. "They played harder, wanted the loose pucks more, and played the body more." 
The only bright spot in the game for the Irish in the loss was the play of Tim Harberts. The sophomore center scored both goals for Notre Dame, but it was not enough to overcome a ftred up UIC squad. 
After starting the season 2-0, the Irish have dropped their last four games:-It was appar­ent from the team's disappoint­ing showing over the weekend that they were still showing some effects from their tough losses to Lake Superior. 
--------~-· 


The Observer/ Rob Finch Freshman Steve Noble and the Irish hockey squad dropped both games in a home-and-home series with the UIC Flames last weekend. 



WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1994 
6:15 TO 7:15 P.M. -0'SHAUGHNESSY 




,: Wondering a?~l1tco~c~~rations, area stqgies 
and 
. t~:;,:df:;'~j~dt~j~thr§ r~flf~,ggn~!ies­
sion-then talk"'W~thtlirec ors of programs that interest you the most! }§ :•· 

FAIR. 15 PROCEEDED BY AN OPTIONAL 5E5510N WITH DIAN MUR.R.AY 
on 
"Hov To CHoosE A MAJoR." 
$ 5:00 TO 5:45 P.M. tl4 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
PARTICIPATING PROGRAMS INCLUDE: 
concentrations second major special programs Film and Cultural Studies African and African-American Studies Gender Studies 


CAPP (Computer Applications) Hesburgh Program in Public Service Education Peace Studies Arts & Letters Preprofessional ALPP Philosophy !Literature 
· PPE: Philosophy, Politics, and Economics 
area studies African And African-American Studies European Studies Latin American Studies Mediterranean/Middle East Studies 


SOPHOMORES!!! Get Involved: 
. 

Sign up to be a member of the Sophomore Committee for this year's JPW!!! Sign up at LaFortune Info desk or call Regis at x2695. 
Deadline Fri., Nov. 11 

The sandwich 
to eat. -
11~ 

Try SUBWAY's new A.1. Steak &Cheese six-inch sub for just $1.99 with the purchase of amedium soft drink. 
For alimited time only. 



THIS WEEKEND 
NOTRE DAME HOCKEY 
vs. FERRIS STATE 
FRI. &SAT. NIGHTS • 7 P.M• 
..Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
• FREE ADMISSION (with student ID) • other prizes, contests and giveaways 
See the Irish hockey team in action at 7p.m. this Friday and Saturday nights in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse against conference foe Ferris State. 
Monday, November 7, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
DAVE KELLETT 



CALVIN AND HOBBES 
DILBERT 
ITS tl.~ 'ffiR:i Rtlt>.)(, S\JSit. IT ~~'PEARS~ B£ f:ll..'IOR\1£,Tal, t 8~T CIG"-R Svns 11"-\ s::> l 00\H 1\\t. '\J.-~rtR.Ir>. T>. G~Si~'C 
WM-\T It) 1-\9-R l\JIK\\ 100,_,l Sf>.\JC~. 
w~~T~ T\-\1~ YOfl B~\\T. 
BILL WATTERSON 

llt~T'~ 
BEANY­
~IEtUES.' 
SCOTT ADAMS 



'(ClYVE TAKEN ALL. 
I HAVE! THE.RE.'S 
NOTHING LEfT TO 
GIVE.~\~ 
THE. BLOOD DRIVE IS NEXT WE.EK . 
ACROSS 30 Peculiar 6t "The-the limit"
32 Fast planet Extreme point in 62 Relative of the an orbit 35 English-French heckelphone

conflict Heroes" extra 
6 "Hogan's 
beginning 1337 63 Teacher's chargetoCole-39 Greek vowel 
t4 Hayes's 40 Bay window predecessor DOWN
4t Prefix with pilot tSArabian 42 "Scram!" t 1 0-percenters: 
sultanate 43 Went in a hurry 
Abbr.
t&-colada 
2 Get ready, 
45 South American 

t7 Cecil B. DeMille informallyepic, with "The" plains 3 Of sound mind20 Prohibition 48 Shock 4 Native Peruvian oasis? 
so-acid 2t Pilgrim John 5 "Dracula" 
st Jerk author Bram22 What a ring 

56 What 17 -Across 

6 Wanderer lacks 
23 "Finally!" had 7 Gather 
sa Tooth pain 

24 On ship &Wacky 28 Plate scrapings 59 Los Angeles 11 9 Neither Rep. 29 In a moment 60 Skater's figure nor Dem. 10 Takes part in a 
------------bee ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 One of the McCartneys 
t 3 Jimmy Dorsey's "-ItYou?" 18 Repair t9 Make a difference 23 Sills song 24 Late tennis V.I.P. 25Title­
27 Also 
28 Pitcher Hershiser 
30 Revise copy 
tTfte Observer 
Enclosed is $60 for one academic year. 
D Enclosed is $35 for one semester. 
Name __________________________________ _ Address ____________________________ ___ City_______State.___Zip.____ 
Published Monday through Friday, %.e Observeris a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found %.e 06server an indispensible link to the two cam­puses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive %.e Observer in your 
home. 

31 Potato feature 32 Done laps 33 Surfeit 34 Trampled 36 Florid 37 Times to write 
about 38-Paulo, Brazil 42 Treats with 
malice 43 Bantu people 44 "Just a moment 
" 

Make checks payable: and mail: 
0 
"Whoa! Here we go again! ... 'Pony Express Rider Walks into Workplace, Starts Shooting Every Horse in Sight."' 

~ver Get Somebody Totally Wasted~ 
fAKE fHE KEYS CAll ACAB lAKE ASTANO 
fRIENDS DON'l lH fRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
45 Drug-yielding 52 Drop in a letter plants box 46 "Alas and -" 
53 Actress Swenson47 Netted 

54 Old English 48 Sad sack 
letters 49 The ones over 55 Beach-storming there vessels: Abbr. 51 Knife 57Toand­
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

t 
:,.... 
SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, November 7, 1994 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

Forget the regular season 
The Observer/Jake Peters Senior goalie Bert Bader dives to make a save in Notre Dame's 3-2 double-overtime win over Wisconsin­Milwaukee as the Irish wrapped up the MCC title . 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame earns title, top seed 

Irish win MCC title in over­time thriller 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Sports Writer 

This past summer, the world 
witnessed the hollow victory of 
Brazil over Italy when Roberto 
Baggio sent his shot over the 
net and Brazil won by penalty 
kicks. 

Yesterday, soccer fans wit­
nessed a joyous, yet, disap­
pointing end to a hard fought 
and even matched game when 
the Notre Dame men's soccer 
team (11-9-2) defeated 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee in double 
overtime on a penalty kick, 3-2. 

With the win, the Irish cap­
tured their second consecutive 
Midwestern Collegiate 
Conference championship, and 
will face Central Connecticut, 
the champion of the Mid­
Continental Conference, for a 
berth to the NCAA tournament. 

Along with the tournament 
championship, Konstantin 
Koloskov, Tony Capasso and 
Tim Oates were singled out as 
members of the All-tournament 
team. Oates was named MVP. 

The Irish reached the finals 
of the MCC tournament with a 
4-1 win over Butler last Friday. 
The Irish continued to show the . dominating offense they dis­played in the beginning of the season and in their prior vic­
tory over Xavier. 

The star in the game against 
the Bulldogs was senior mid­
fielder Tont Richardson, who 
scored the initial goal of the 
match and added two assists. 
The Irish also received two 
goals from senior Keith Carlson 
and another from Koloskov. 

There is bad news for the Irish, though, they lost Richardson when he received a red card along with Bulldog Dan Gollneck for initiating a brawl when the Irish were up 4-0. This red card meant that Richardson would also be sus­pended for the conference championship game against Wisconsin-Milwaukee. 
"Tont should never been in that situation," coach Mike Berticelli said. "That's not the type of player he is. He's never been thrown out before. We have to keep composure, we can't lose players." 
The loss of Richardson would be felt. 
The Irish scored within the first two minutes of play. A free kick from Koloskov fooled Panther go,alkeeper Alan Placek, and when Placek went to tip the kick over the net, he bounced it off the crossbar. Freshman forward Ryan Turner took advantage of this mistake and pushed it in for a 1-0 lead. 
From this point on, the Panther offense dominated the majority of the first half. The absence of Richardson clearly affected the Irish midfield as the Irish made multiple substi­tutions early in hope to fmd the best unit. 
The second half was more balanced, yet with 15 minutes remaining the Panther started to step-up the pressure even further. The Irish took advan­tage of this, and, with a well played counter-attack, Koloskov drove in a Turner crossing pass to put the Irish up 2-0 with 13 minutes remain­ing. 
Any Panther hopes seemed dashed, but with some great 
see SEASON/ page 13 
NCAA draw grants Irish bye, home game 
ByRIANAKEY Associate Sports Editor 

The No. 1 Notre Dame women's soccer team beat Butler 5-1 on Sunday, claiming its second consecutive Midwestern Collegiate Conference championship and improving its record to 20-0-1. 
Most importantly, though, the champi­onship secured a top seed for the Irish in the NCAA tournament. Notre Dame re­ceived a qualifying-round bye and will host the winner of the Virginia-George Mason match. 
The Irish downed George Mason 1-0 earli­er this season, but have not faced the Cavaliers 
Against Butler, the Bulldogs battled the Irish to a 0-0 halftime tie before Notre Dame was able to pull away in the second half. 
Junior forward Rosella Guerrero opened scoring for the Irish 3:09 into the second half. The goal was Guerrero's 20th of the season and 46th of her career, making her the all-time leader for career goals at Notre Dame. 
Senior Jodi Hartwig scored less than three minutes later, and goals by junior Michelle McCarthy, and freshmen Kate Sobrero .and Holly Manthei secured the win for the Insh. 
Notre Dame had defeated Wright State 7­0 and Xavier 10-0 to qualify for the final 
see TITLE I page 13 

Hockey News ...
Irish are perfect in MCC 
After two wins over the weekend, the 
Check inside to see how the 

volleyball team is 6-0 in MCC competition 
hockey team fared this weekend 

See page 13 
WOMEN'S VOLLEYBAL 






