.----------------------------­
AIDS group o ers Quilt panel meetings 
By SARAH DORAN 
Associate News Editor 

In preparation for the upcom­ing campus display of The NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt, AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist of South Bend is inviting those interested in making a · quilt panel to work together each Saturday until the display arrives. 
"We want people to come here to try and get a sense of what they have to do to make a panel in the sense of organizing their emotions into a fabrica­tion," said Associate Director of AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist Ethne Kennedy. 
The three by six foot panels are made in remembrance of someone who has died of AIDS. They are to be added to the AIDS Memorial Quilt, which has over 30,000 panels. 
A portion of AIDS Memorial Quilt -about 300 panels ­will be on display in Stepan Center February 25 through 27. 
The NAMES Project Foundation, which owns the AIDS Memorial Quilt, encour­ages area groups to hold meet­ings for those interested in making a panel as preparation for the display, she said. 
Although fabric materials and a quilt maker will be available, Kennedy expects that those who come to the meetings will be looking more for advice about "the story they want their panel to tell." 
"I think that the meetings will lean more towards sitting down and talking about ideas than learning about the technical working of a panel," she said. 
Panels submitted for inclu­sion will be displayed along side of the AIDS Memorial Quilt in the Stepan Center exhibit. 
Although the group is sched­uled to meet before the exhibit arrives, future meetings may be added after the display is over. 
"People will be inclined to make a panel only after they have seen the Quilt," said AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist volunteer Kathleen Royer, who is also a service group coordinator at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The group will meet February 5, 12, and 19 from 2 to 5 p.m. at AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist, which is located at 211 North Saint Louis Street. 
Literature outlining panel specifications and method to be followed for submission into the AIDS Memorial Quilt is avail­able at this office, the Center for Social Concerns, and the Hesburgh Library office of Campus Ministry. 

The Observer/Carolyn Wilkens 
Strike a pose 
Seniors Ashea Price and· Kevin Pendergast practice a pose for the 18th Annual Fashion Show sponsored by the Coalition of Student Organizations and the Black Alumni of Notre Dame. All proceeds will go to the Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund to help an African­American female and male student pay for books. 

U.S. grants IRA leader limited visa 
ByJIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The United States granted a limited visa Sunday to Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Fein, the Northern Irish political party that supports the out­lawed Irish Republican Army. 
The White House said in an­nouncing the step, which per­mit Adams to attend a New York conference, that President Clinton "supports this difficult decision and believes it will help advance the cause of peace in Northern Ireland." 
In London, the British gov­ernment said Sunday night it hoped that the decision to grant the two-day visa will per­suade Sinn Fein and the IRA allies to renounce violence in its campaign to seeking to end British rule in Northern Ireland. 
Clinton and Secretary of State Warren Christopher discussed the issue several times before the decision was made, State Department spokesman David Johnson said. 
The White House said Attorney General Janet Reno, at the recommendation of Christopher, issued a "waiver 
see IRA I page 4 


Arafat says agreement with Israel near White homeland possible 
By ALEXANDER HIGGINS 
Associated Press 
DAVOS, Switzerland 
Israel and the Palestine Lib­eration Organization will reach a final agreement "very soon" for Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and Jericho, PLO chairman Yasser Arafat said Sunday. 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shi­mon Peres stopped short of any predictions on the arduous ne­gotiations. But Egyptian For­eign Minister Amr Moussa told reporters that the PLO-Israel talks had cleared all the major hurdles. 
"We would like to have a comprehensive peace," Peres told a privately organized gath­ering of political and business leaders from around the world. His speech contained no specifics. 
"We are still working," he also told reporters, saying many differences remained to be resolved. 

Peres and Arafat appeared at 
By TINA SUSMAN 
the leaders' gathering after a 
Associated Press 
morning of negotiations, then resumed negotiating in the 
KHUMA, South Africa 
evening. 
The African National 
"We are on our way to 
Congress offered Sunday to let 
bypass all the obstacles which 
pro-apartheid whites vote for 
had been raised in the last 
their own homeland -but said 
weeks ... to have very soon, 
a black government would re­
very soon the final agreement 
tain power to veto the results. 
to start directly the implemen­
ANC President Nelson Man­
tation of the peace agree­
deJa appealed to militant 
ments," Arafat told the World 
whites to accept the offer and avert bloodshed. see ISRAEL I page 6 But the right-wing Afrikaner 
Volksfront angrily rejected the proposal and vowed to estab­lish its own homeland by force if necessary to avoid living under black rule. 
That militant stance could be fatal, Mandela told an adoring crowd of several thousand squeezed into a stadium in the black township of Khuma on Sunday. 
"We know how to fight," he said, referring to the ANC's 30­
see MANDELA I page 6 



CDC, colleges refine and refocus AIDS programs 
Editor's note: The follow­ing is the first in a three­part series examining AIDS education and awareness on college campuses. 
By JOHN LUCAS 
Associate News Ediror 
A series of 10 unique ads were released by the Centers For Disease Control (CDC) last month for broadcast over the television and radio airwaves. 
While the spots were not dif­ferent than previous ads in the fact that they advocated con­dom use or abstinence from sexual intercourse, most used the images or voices of Caucasian, African-American, or Hispanic young adults. 
The use of a young adults in the spots is a sign that the CDC has become increasingly con­cerned with the 18-25 age group's susceptibility to catch­ing sexually transmitted dis­eases, particularly AIDS, ac­cording to Melissa Shepherd, the CDC's chief of social marketing. 

"When looking at the 25 and under group, all indicators point to the fact that we need to look at HIV prevention mes­sages," she said. "There's a serious knowledge gap in the sexual behavior of that group. This is clearly a starting pbint." 
One of the biggest statistics supporting Shepherd's new program is a CDC study show­ing that by age 20, 86 percent of men and 77 percent of women report having had sex­ual intercourse, while far less use a condom, or engage in protected sex. 
Correct use of a condom will prevent AIDS and other sexu­ally transmitted diseases, Shepherd said, but it is vital that the under 25 age group begin to listen to the messages of the CDC. 
CAMPUSES RESPOND TO AIDS 

At the forefront of the battle to educate young adults are AIDS education programs and health clinics at colleges and universities across the nation. Since the CDC supports only a few programs at the college level, the institutions must make their own choices about how to best educate students about condom use. 
Serving a community of near­ly 50,000 undergraduate and graduate students, the University of Minnesota's health education program is the na­tion's largest, and a model for others across the country.· 
"Since we know that 75 per­cent of our population is sexu­ally active, we'll spend every dollar we get to increase the level of AIDS education here," said David Golden, University of Minnesota's director of health education. 
Several aspects of Minnesota's program include confidential AIDS testing, a stu­dent task force, and condom education and distribution. 
Golden  estimated  that  
Minnesota distributed  over  
40,000  condoms  last  year  
alone.  

"We give them (condoms) to RA's to give out, we give them to a houses, we even put them in candy machines -we dump them all over the place," he said. "After we put them in the machines, we did not receive one letter or call of complaint. That was beyond even my ex­pectation." 
Although Minnesota and other public institutions are able to distribute and educate students about condoms, Shep­herd said she would like to see more schools with religious affiliation do the same. 
"Condom education, used in a balanced approach, with education about abstinence, is not contrary to monogamy." she said. "There's really more middle ground here than you would believe. All we want to do is get the information out in a scientific manner." 
Being Catholic should not mean being uneducated, agreed Dr. Arnold Mazur. director of health services at Boston College, a Jesuit institution. 
"We're able to do a number of different things here, from a number of different angles," he said. 
The Boston College program includes pamphlets, photo dis­plays, AIDS education posters and even the NAMES project 
see AIDS/ page 4 


page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Zhirinovsky: A sequel to skip 
Not so long ago, our--------------­
world was in a similar situ­ation as it is today. A once powerful country had been brought to its knees, and a seemingly ineffective gov­ernment was in charge of it. There was rampant inflation and many dissatis­fied citizens. In this mess, a small party had steadily Eric Ruethling climbed its way up from Photographer the pits of the extreme, 
minority parties and ________ established itself in the major house of the gov­ernment. 
The weak government was then turned over to that party's leader, who promised a new age of prosperity and increased standing in the world. That time was yesterday, sixty-one years ago. That country was Germany. That man was Adolf Hitler. 
How could such a man, come to power? He had been pushing his anti-Semitic message ever since his release from prison. He proposed the strengthening of Germany -a return to the days before the treaty of Versailles. 
The end result of it all was a nightmare o total war, mass exterminations, and mindless savagery. Most Americans view World War II as our shining moment in the world. You will find that many people in Europe find the war to mean much more, and to have a higher signifi­cance. 
Earlier this week, the anniversary of the siege of Leningrad was observed. A estimated 25 million people died in the Soviet Union during World War II. One would think that if someone was to insure that this never happened again, it would be Russia. We find quite the contrary. 
Recently, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, leader of the "Liberal Democrats", and his party acquired major gains in the parliament of Russia. His party's presence in such numbers could put the brakes on Yeltsin's attempts at reform. Many people, are stunned at this news. and are afraid of what is to come out of further elections. 
Not only does he present serious problems to the "westernization" of Russia, by proposing a return to the old workings of.the communistic age, he is also a stout racist and is hungry for conflict. He recently went on tour to several eastern European countries, and eventually found himself either barred from entering, or run out of the country by the populous ­because of previous rallies and speeches involv­ing racist topics. 
This guy is not a snake like David Duke, who puts on a pseudo-political image when talking to the press. He is a raving racist who says openly on a live interview with CNN that i America returns Alaska to the Russians, he'll send in the Russian military to " ... help you get rid of all the blacks." This is no Moammar Kaddafy, who threatens to use force and hides when our carriers sail into the Mediterranean. He is a loose cannon who sent members of his party to Iraq during Desert Storm to " ... fight American imperialism and their allies." This is no Saddam Hussein, who says he only wants to reclaim what is the rightful property of the Iraqi people. He is a war-monger who has men­tioned several campaign speeches, the conquest of former Warsaw Pact nations and former Soviet states as well as taking over parts o Finland, Mongolia, and even Japan. 
This man is not a simple-minded Adolf Hitler. This man will have several hundred nuclear warheads under his thumb if he comes to power, and the ignorance to use them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Michael O'Hara T.] Harris Kate Crisham Production 
Sports Whitney Sheets Jason Kelly Kathie Young Campuses Graphics 
Marcy Dinius Brendan Regan Zoe Marin 
The Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 
World lags in education of girls 
WASHINGTON 
Some 85 million more boys than girls receive elemen­tary and secondary educations worldwide, according to a report that says the gender gap in education leads to more babies, more disease and greater hardship. 
The study, released Sunday by Population Action International, documents for the first time the gap in 112 countries and estimates the cost of equalizing education. 
"Educating girls is one of the best investments any country can make," said Joseph Speidel, president of PAl, which works for worldwide access to family plan­ning and population stabilization. 
Based on 1991 data. it says $6.5 billion annually could educate 76 million more girls to close the gap in coun­tries where it is most serious. 
The annual cost is estimated to triple over the next dozen years. but the report says it would pay back in lower fertility rates, fewer infant deaths, better hygiene, reduced poverty and higher literacy. 
"The educational status of women has a great deal to do with how many children they have and therefore population stability," said Shanti Conly, a population researcher who edited the study. 
Prominent economists and social scientist have come to agree in recent years that educating women helps im­prove conditions in developing countries, especially for rural people. 
The study rates each country on a 100-point scale ac­cording to the educational attainment of women, female­male enrollment ratios and the percentage of females en­rolled. 
France and Canada, where women average more than 11 years of schooling, top the list, both with scores above 99. 
At the bottom, scoring 21, is the central African nation of Chad, where the average woman has less than a month of formal schooling and there is one girl in sec­
"Doubtfire" tops Hanks' "Philadelphia'' 
LOS ANGELES 
"Mrs. Doubtfire" narrowly edged "Philadelphia" at the box office this weekend, according to industry esti­mates Sunday. "Mrs. Doubtfire," star­ring Robin Williams, earned about $8.1 million according to estimates released before the Super Bowl, which tradition­ally keeps viewers away from movie theaters. "Philadelphia," starring Tom Hanks and Denzel Washington, was 

close behind with $7.8 million. Final figures were to be released Monday. "Grumpy Old Men," pairing Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon, earned an estimated $5.1 million, and the new thriller "Blink" had $4.6 million. "Intersection" starring Richard Gere and Sharon Stone earned $4.3 million, and "Schindler's List" took in $3.5 million. "Iron Will" was seventh with $2.9 million, fol­lowed closely by "The Pelican Brief' with $2.8 million. "Shadowlands" and "Tombstone" rounded out the top 10 with $2.4 million and $2.3 million, respectively. 
Four Taco Bell employees shot 
CLARKSVILLE, Tenn. 
Four employees of a Taco Bell restaurant were found shot to death Sunday in an apparent robbery. The em­ployees were each shot several times, police told the Clarksville Leaf-Chronicle. The restaurant safe had been blown open and 20 or more spent shells from two weapons, a shotgun and a 9mm pistol, were strewn about the restaurant, police said. The victims had been work­ing the Saturday night shift. The restaurant's drive­through window closed at 2 a.m.; the dining room closed at midnight. A manager n{)ticed their cars in the parking 
INDIANA Weather 
Monday, Jan. 31 
Accu-Weather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

NATIONAL Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Jan. 31. 
lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
..,........... ..&...&.. ...,.&r 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Acctl·Weather, Inc. 

Prsssurs 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta 
Boston Chicago Columbus Dallas Denver 
Monday, January 31, 1994 
Educating girls 

In Africa, South Asia and the Middle East, too many girls remain unschooled, says a study bein(l released Monday. It says the gender gap 1n the world's schools means more babies, more disease and more hardship for countries where it is widest. Infant mortality rate Female 
(infant deaths per education Top 1 0 countries 1,000 live births) index• 
France 7 99.7 Canada 7 99.4 
Finland 6 98.3 Norway 8 98.2 
Belgium 8 97.8 United States 9 97.7 
Netherlands 7 97.4 Sweden 6 97.1 
Denmark 8 96.2 United Kingdom 8 96.1 
Bottom 10 countries Cent. African Republic 101 32.8 Burkina Faso 134 29.6 Benin 113 28.9 Pakistan 103 27.6 Niger 128 25.0 Mali 166 24.2 Afghanistan 172 24.1 Yemen 124 24.1 Guinea 138 21.9 Chad 125 21.0 

• This index is a percentage rating and is based on three factors: percentage of girls who 
attend school, boy/girl ratio in schools and number of years of schooling completed by girls Source: Population Action International AP 
ondary school for every five boys. 
The United States, with 95 girls for every 100 boys, 
ranks sixth, following Finland, Norway and Belgium. 
Among those near the top, rated "very good," are 
some less-wealthy countries, including Cuba and 
Mongolia. A few Asian, African and Middle Eastern coun­
tries are in the "good" category, including the 
Philippines, Botswana and Kuwait. 
lot when he arrived for work Sunday and called police. The bodies were found in two storage rooms, the news­paper reported. ''I've seen some terrible things in my 28 years, but nothing this brutal," Tennessee Bureau of Investigations Special Agent Jim Taylor said. Police told The Associated Press on Sunday that they would not comment on the case. The employees were identified as Patricia Price, 28, Marsha Klopp, 22; Angela Wyatt, 22. and Kevin Campbell, 22. Wyatt may have been pregnant, police said. 
Ex-Supreme Wilson's son killed in wreck 
BARSTOW, Calif. 
Former Supremes singer Mary Wilson was injured and her 14-year-old son was killed when the Jeep she was driving hit a freeway median and overturned, authorities said Sunday. Rafael Ferrer was pronounced dead at Barstow Community Hospital about two hours after the 
7:30 a.m. Saturday crash, San Bernardino County Deputy Coroner Monika Padilla said. Wilson, 49, was taken to Lorna Linda University Medical Center, but her injuries weren't believed to be serious, Padilla said. Hospital spokesman David Schaefer refused to confirm or deny that Wilson was at the hospital. Wilson and her son were traveling from Los Angeles to Nevada and Wilson may have fallen asleep at the wheel, Padilla said. Wilson's Jeep Cherokee drifted to the right side of Interstate 15, and when she overcorrected the vehicle swerved across the highway, plowed into the median and overturned, Padilla said. Wilson, a Detroit native who lives in Los Angeles, was the only member of the Supremes to stay with the group from its 1959 inception to its breakup in 1977. Lead singer Diana Ross left in 1969. The Supremes' hits included "Where Did Our Love Go," "Baby Love," "Come See About Me," and "You Keep Me Hangin' On." 
46  36  Dixon  25  19  Philadelphia  36  30  
28  23  Los Angeles  70  47  Phoenix  64  40  
21  17  Miami  S1  73  St. Louis  26  23  
33  17  Minneapolis  9  ·10  San Francisco  63  43  
47  29  New Orleans  50  42  Seattle  52  32  
20  3  New York  36  28  Sterling  20  18  

Total fertility rate 
{Average number of children per woman) 
1.8 1.7 1.8 1.8 1.6 1.9 1.6 1.9 1.7 1.8 
5.8 6.3 6.3 5.8 7.2 7.1 6.9 7.7 6.5 6.0 

---~-~-~ -----~-----------_..,..-........! 
Monday, January 31, 1994 
Trial for accused leader of Hamas group begins 
By ALLYN FISHER 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM An Arab-American accused of 
• 
being a key organizer for the military arm of the militant Is­lamic Hamas movement went on trial Sunday behind closed doors. 
Mohammed Salah, a 39-year­old used-car dealer from Chicago, was arrested a year ago while visiting the occupied West Bank and indicted in Oc­tober. 
The charges against him were never made public, but Israel radio reported at the time that Salah was accused of commanding Hamas' armed underground. 
The army denied reporters entry to Sunday's proceedings at the Ramallah military court, just north of Jerusalem, saying it was a preliminary hearing and such sessions are usually held in secret. 
But Salah's attorney, Avigdor Feldman said the court was closed because a member of the Shin Bet security service who was testifying said he 
Malloy will travel to 

ashington, D.C. tomorrow evening to offer the pre dinner invocation at the Democratic Governor's Association (DGA) 
er. President Clinton will serve as the dinner's guest of honor and featured speaker. Indiana Governor Evan Bayh, this year's DGA chair and mas­ter of ceremonies for the din-


Jan. 31 at 9:00 p.m. Stanford, Sorin, Lyons, Pangborn, Morrissey, and Dillon will serve as the host dorms in the First round. The teams will debate the topic "Re­solved: that publicly funded schools such as 
"CONVERSA­TIONS" BEGIN ... 
The first "Campus Con­
versation" of the semester 
will be held on Wednes­
day,February 2 from 6:00 
to 7:00 p.m, in Ke.~nan 
Hall.. Dean Keane from 
the College ofBusiness will. 
speak 
tend;·.· 
feared being exposed. "The preliminary hearings are over, the trial has started," Feldman told The Associated Press out­side the courtroom. 
Salah's family was also de­nied access to the courtroom, although an observer from the 
U.S. Consulate in Jerusalem was allowed in, Feldman said. 
Consulate spokeswoman Lea Perez said she would not com­ment on the trial while it was in progress. 
Israel has accused Salah of giving $60,000 to Hamas and claimed another $100,000 was found in his Jerusalem hotel room when he was arrested. He has also been accused of giving $96,000 to Hamas to establish an armed military force in August 1992. 
Salah, who has not lived in the West Bank for more than 20 years, has denied the alle­gations. He has said his visit last year was to distribut!'l char­ity from Palestinian-Americans. 
Feldman said Sunday's pro­ceedings focused on Salah's confession, which Feldman said was extracted through duress and false promises. 
ner, re(rue:sted the prayer in order to light Indiana," according to Malloy. · 
Malloy, who does not all himself with partisan events, traveling to Washington, D. for a Tuesday meeting of Association of Catholic ....v ......,..,...~1 and Universities, of which he a member of the board. 
By SAHM VENTER 
Associated Press 
MITCHELLS PLAIN 

Hundreds of mourners of­fered flowers and lit candles in church Sunday for the young victims of a serial killer, and police were criticized for acting slowly because the victims were not white. 
Since 1986, police have linked the so-called Station Strangler to the murders of at least 19 young boys, all from Mitchells Plain. 
The strangler is believed to lure his victims from train plat­forms before sodomizing and strangling them. Ten bodies 

WEEK OF JANUARY 31, 1994 
ICEBERG DEBATES BEGIN THIS WEEK; FEMALE STUDENTS AT THE CITADEL DISCUSSED 
The 1994 Ice berg The Citadel shouldmain­Debates begin Monday, tain gender-blind admis­
sion policies." The host dorms will take the affir­mative position. 
The second round ofdebateswill be heldon Wednesday, Feb.2 at 
9:00 p.m. Although the teams will debate the same topic, BP, Siegfried, 

The Observer/Jal<e Peters 

There he is, Mr. Stanford 
Two Stanford Hall residents strut their stuff in the Mr. Stanford contest held in Stepan Center on Saturday night. Six "Studs" competed in the contest, but junior Mike Johnson walked away with the coveted title. 
More bodies found in serial killer case 
have been found since January 20. 
Police called off their search for more victims on Friday, but residents and neighborhood watch groups from other sub­urbs continued combing the bushes and dunes of this Cape Town area community on Sun­day. 
"If these were white children, this murderer would have been caught long ago," Allan Boe­sak, a regional African National Congress leader, told the cheer­ing congregation of 500 at the Anglican church. 
Mitchells Plain is a commu­nity of racially mixed descen­dants of blacks, whites, Malays and Hottentots. 
St. Ed's, Badin, Fisher, and Zahm will host this round, and theywill take the affirmative side. 
The third round of debates will be held on Tuesday, Feb. 8. The topicandsites ofthe third round will be announced the week of Feb. 7 in "Irish Info". 
The eight teams with the best records af­ter the three preliminary rounds will advance to the Quarterfinal Round, heldon Tuesday, Feb. 15. Everyoneisencouraged to attend to support their dorm and watch some of Notre Dame's best de­baters battle each other. 
STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS TO BE HELD FEB. 7 
Campaigns for stu­dent body office will begin on Monday, January 31. There are four tickets run­ning this year, each with their own ideas and per­sonality. 
The candidates are, in alphabetical order: Grace junior Brian Coughlin and Walsh jun­ior Maria Capua, Morrissey junior Bryan. 
Corbett and BP junior Karen DuBay, Morrissey junior David Hungeling and Fisher junior Matt Orsagh, and Howard jun­ior Erin King and Sarin junior Deitz Lefort. 
The candidates will hold a debate on Tuesday, February 1 at 7:00p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Students are encouraged to attend and learn about each ticket's platform 
The election will takeplaceonMonday, Feb­ruary 7, and a runoff will be held on Wednesday, February 9 if necessary. Voting will take place in each dorm, so please show your support for Student Government. 
Nine boys were found dead before the killings appeared to have stopped in 1992. Until the new discoveries were made, police believed that the mur­derer was either dead or in prison on other charges. 
At the service in the local An­glican church Sunday, ANC President Nelson Mandela sent a written message that was read to the congregation: 
"To lose a child in such ap­palling circumstances is one of the greatest tragedies that can befall a human being. This dan­gerous, sick man who threatens the safety and peace of mind of your community must be found." 
~ ~·------~--------·~ ­
page4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, January 31, 1994 




AIDS 
continued from page 1 

AIDS quilt. Although they do 
not supply or advertise con­
doms, they do produce 
brochures which explain con­
dom use. 

Above all, Mazur said that by 
keeping a low profile, his pro­
gram is able to accomplish 
more than if he were to crusade 
for condom distribution. 

"The program. is fairly low key," he admitted. "Of course, the administration recognizes the seriousness of the situation, but if you cause controversy, ,sometimes you see a lot of heat 
and not much light. " 

Catholicism and condoms 
don't have to always clash, ac­
cording to John Gurrola, press 
secretary for the Office of AIDS 
Policy in Washington D.C. 

"At the University of San 
Diego, we're beginning a series 
of roundtable talks where we 
have an agreement: we can talk 
about condoms, as long as we 
use abstinence in the same sen­
tence," he said. "That's about 
as fair as you can get." 

At DePaul University in 
Chicago, the CDC is involved in 
funding their AIDS education 
effort. The program includes 
confidential testing, an AIDS 
awareness video, and a task 
force that involves several de­
partments of the university. 

"We're trying to best educate 
students while staying true to 
DePaul's Catholic mission." said 
Director of Health Education 
Therese O'Donnell-Cuitino. 

Although he is happy to be at 
the University of Minnesota, an 
institution where there are no 
IRA 
continued from page 1 

to Gerry Adams' ineligibility" to allow Adams to attend a conference Tuesday on Northern Ireland. 
Adams has been turned down in eight previous requests for visas, and the decision to allow him into the country reflects recent progress in negotiations to end decades of civil strife in Northern Ireland. 
"Over the last decade the United States has refused Mr. Adams a visa because of his in­volvement in terrorist activity," 
Beethoven's 2"(PG): 1:00, 3:00,5:15, 7:15 Bllak(R): 1:45, 4:30, 7:30,10:00 Grumpy Old Men(PG13): 115, 415,6:45, 9:00 lrol WIII(PG): 12:15.2:30,5:00,7:30.945 Pblladelphla(PG13): 1:30,4:45,7:15, 9:45 The Pellcao Brlei(PG13): 12:30, 4:00. 7:00, 10:00 T0111bsto1a(R): 10:15 
SFX: Door doses. Man and woman kissing, .giggling. WOMAN: Did you bring it? MAN: Uh-oh; I forgot it! WOMAN: Then forgetit. SFX: Light clicks on. 
AMERICA , RESPONDS TO AIDS 
FEMALE ANNCR: Next time, don't forget it and every rime make itpartofthe relationship. MALE ANNCR: A latex condom, used consistently and correctly, preven~s the spread ofHIV, the virus 
.thatcauses AIDS .. ~and may save your life. SUPER: "ARTA" logo 
The above is an example of the 30-second AIDS-awareness spots being run by the Department of Health and Human Services and the Center t~r Disease Control 
battles over AIDS and condom education, Golden said he un­derstands the struggle. 
"It's a pretty big dilemma that you have to wrestle with," said Golden, who is a practicing Catholic. "But you've also got a pretty scary reality out there." 
Along larger national levels, the new Office of AIDS Policy created by President Clinton is still preparing itself to face the task of coordinating a compre­hensive AIDS plan. 
"We're all about partnerships with different areas of the com­munity," said Gurrola. "In these partnerships, we want to reach 
the White House statement said. 
It said the change in that pol­icy grows out of the December 15 joint declaration by British Prime Minister John Major and Irish Premier Albert Reynolds laying the groundwork for peace negotiations in Northern Ireland. 
out to the entire family, and the Shepherd explained the CDC is "The CDC has really seen a religious community." now able to cooperate with transformation in the last 
Since budgets for AIDS re­state health programs on a year," she said. "It's an exciting search, education and preven­local basis, rather than focusing time here-we're beginning to tion are all on the rise under attention on high-profile focus on community empower­the Clinton administration, national programs. ment to deal with the disease." 

1994-95 Financial Aid Deadline 
FAF & Renewal FAFSA Applications must be 
received by the processing centers on or before 
the dates listed below: 
ND SMC Feb.28, 1994 Mar. 1, 1994 

If additional information or application materials are needed contact your financial aid office. 

London $395* Paris $389* Madrid $389* Munich $515* 
Milan $585* 
•Airfares are roundtrip from Chicago. Restrictions apply, taxes are not included and fares are subject to change. Call for other worldwide destinations. 

Council Travel 
moderators: 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 

PROFESSOR JOHN ROBINSON 
311·951-0585 

Director of the Center for Law and Government 
Call For A Free Student Travels magazine 
PROFESSOR WILLIAM D. SOLOMON Professor of Philosophy 
Happy 21•t Brian We're Proud of You! 
Love, 

Fisher Hall Basement
Mom&Dad 

7:00 PM on Feb. 2nd 
P.S.­You'll always be my little boy! 
Come join us for great food & 
Love, Mom 

cornversatlom1 

~-.. -~--~---~~-~-~---~~~---­
Monday, January 31, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 
The Observer/Carolyn Wilkens 

Using love to combat violence 
Greg Fleming, Darly Webster, and Brother Bill Tomes of the Brothers and Sisters of Love spoke Saturday at the Center for Social Concerns about life in the Cabrini Green housing projects in Chicago. The organi­zation attempts to combat gang violence by visiting jails, hospitals, and prroviding legal representation for those needing it. 

Press here for a great data processing career. The right time. The right place. Blue chip. Green light. State Farm processing equipment. You'll go State Farm is hiring. is one of America's leading insur­as far and as fast as you can. If you're a senior with a data ance companies. Through inno­You couldn't have a more solid processing, computer science or vative marketing and a proud base to build a career on. math background, there may be service tradition it has become Contact your campus a very special career opportunity the nation's leading auto and Placement Director about waiting for you in one of the larg­homeowner's insurer, and one of State Farm today. est corporate data processing the top life insurance companies Or write Daryl Watson, Assistant facilities in the country. in the country. Director, Home Office Personnel There are actuarial and audit­You'll receive expert training. Relations, One State Farm Plaza, ing jobs open, too. You'll work on state-of-the-art data Bloomington, Illinois 61710. STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES. Home Offices: Bloomington. Illinois. An Equal Opportunity Employer.  

page 5 


Kevorkian rallies to gain support for amendment 
By JULIA PRO DIS 
Associated Press 
LIVONIA, Michigan 

Standing like a preacher on a candlelit, flowery pulpit, Dr. Jack Kevorkian began a peti­tion drive to legalize assisted suicide by urging about 700 Sunday churchgoers to join his crusade. 
Kevorkian needs more than 250,000 signatures to place a constitutional amendment on the November ballot. 
In a speech between services at St. Paul's Presbyterian Church, Kevorkian spoke of the "right not to suffer" and damned the "tyrants" who passed Michigan's law banning assisted suicide. 
"It's almost an insult to put this on the ballot. It's an insult to human reason. Why? Be­cause that right exists. We have to remind ourselves that right is there," said Kevorkian, who has been present at the deaths of 20 people since 1990. 
The enthusiastic audience gave several standing ovations as Kevorkian, a 65-year-old re­tired pathologist, spoke in front of a tall wooden crucifix and an open Bible. 
Two people holding Bibles over their heads briefly inter­rupted the program as one yelled, "This church has been cursed today!" 
"As a Christian, I think it's a disgrace that he stood in front of the crucifix," Dave Reuschle of Plymouth said after the rally. 
But others said Kevorkian's presence showed the church's open-mindedness. Kevorkian was invited to speak by Pastor Thomas Egglebeen, who said the belief of many Christians that suicide is a mortal sin is a fallacy borne of politics instead of theology. 
"It's a hoax that's been hoist­
ed upon us by the institu­
tionalized church. It's just not 
true," Egglebeen said. "There 
are six or seven incidents in 
scripture where a suicide is re­
ported and it's treated kindly 
and tragically. In no way at all 
is the person condemned." 
The Presbyterian Church it­
self has taken no stand on the 
issue, but it does favor abortion 
rights, Egglebeen said. 
Archbishop Adam Maida of 
the Roman Catholic 
Archdiocese of Detroit has spo­
ken out against Kevorkian and 
assisted suicide. 
After the rally, hundreds of 
people stood in line to shake 
Kevorkian's hand, get his auto­
graph or have their picture 
taken with him. Kevorkian was 
flanked by two bodyguards. 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH 
~«3Hl'h·H' ~ ~ +BJ'Hif¥ ~ 
VAIL/BEAVER CREEK ORLANDO/DISNEY WORLD MUSTANG ISLAND HILTON HEAD ISLAND BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
•ptRI'fFISOtiD'EI'EIIDitiGiliiOlSIIIIATIOII/III£UDATES/UMGTMOfSilY 
FOR ADDITIONAL IVFORMATION &RESERVATIONS 
lt·~~O~~U_N~~~S~I
~~~ 

page 6 
Mandela 
continued from page 1 

year guerrilla war, suspended in August 1990 after the white government introduced reforms to end apartheid. 
Under the ANC proposal, whites could vote April 27 on whether to establish a whites­only homeland. The ballot would be separate from na­tional elections April 27-29 for a new, multiracial government. The ANC is expected to win those elections. 
Whatever the outcome of the homeland vote, the newly elect­ed government would have final say on the issue, a condi­tion unacceptable to white ex­tremists who have threatened war. 
"I want to appeal to the right wing not to do anything that would drag our country into a conflict that would kill many in-
Israel 
continued from page 1 
Economic Forum. 

Despite their apparently dif­ferent assessment of the talks, Arafat and Peres have shown a new friendliness during joint appearances in this snow-cov­
ered Alpine resort. 

The PLO leader took Peres by the hand Sunday to lead him up the stairs to the stage for a joint appearance before economic forum. 
The brotherly gesture con­trasted with Israeli Prime Min­ister Yitzhak Rabin's hesitation to shake Arafat's hand at the September 13 signing of the Is­raeli-PLO accord that set up the current talks. 
In Davos, Peres also trans­lated into English questions for Arafat from a French reporter and enthusiastically shook hands with the PLO leader for photographers. Both leaders smiled and appeared relaxed together. 
And the Israeli paid a tribute to Arafat that once would have been unthinkable, saying the PLO leader "personalizes the great suffering of the Pales­tinian people." 
Among major issues in the negotiations between Arafat and Peres are security arrang­ments for the new Palestinian areas that will meet Israeli de­mands for keeping out terror­ists while not infringing on the Palestinian sense of sovereign-The Observer • NEWS 
nocent people, black and Sunday of calling an election white," Mandela said. "We are boycott but said the party 
Flooding proble::~;;~~~;4 appealing to the right wing not would not participate unless its to talk about violence so easily. demands for Zulu autonomy We know what war means." were met. 
along banks of Ohio River 
The ANC, the government The Afrikaner Volksfront also 

and their opponents, including is threatening to boycott the By ROCHELLE OLSON rainfall -Parkersburg gotthe Afrikaner Volksfront and vote. It installed its own gov­Associated Press about two inches last week, in­
the black, Zulu-dominated ernment Saturday to lead the 
cluding 1.12 inches on Thurs­Inkatha Freedom Party, were to fight for a white nation. 
POINT PLEASANT, W.Va. day -and melting snow. Au­meet again Monday in an at­The offer of a separate vote Ken Bailey needed a boat to thorities said the flooding wastempt to end the differences on a white homeland was made get to his house. LeEtta Hart less severe Sunday than in pre­that have raised fears of bloody during private ANC-Afrikaner needed two, walking from one vious days because morningconflict during the election Volksfront talks and was the to the other on a rare strip of temperatures in the high 20scampaign. furthest the ANC has gone to­dry land in between. kept snow from melting. 
Inkatha and right-wing white ward meeting the group's de­And emergency workers At least one family was evac­groups fear domination by the mand. 
needed a row boat to deliver uated in Point Pleasant, but
ANC, which has overwhelming The ANC appeared to be heart medicine to one person most had left the neighborhoodsupport among South Africa's gambling on the white minority who couldn't leave home. before the flooding. Those whoblack majority. They have de­rejecting the proposal and Those homes were among tried to return had to do so bymanded constitutional guaran­putting its support behind a about 30 in a development in­boat.
tees of ethnic autonomy for multiracial government, as it • undated by more than four feet Bailey and his neighborstheir followers before they did during a 1991 whites-only of water from the Kanawha climbed a train trestle to waitagree to take part in the elec­referendum on reforms. In that River, which flows into the Ohio for someone to pick them up.
tion. The ANC has refused, say­vote, pro-apartheid white river near Point Pleasant. They didn't know when iting that would mean a return to groups were dealt an embar­Some homes on high ground would come.
apartheid-style homelands. rassing defeat when whites 
avoided water damage, and "It's kind of a guessing
Inkatha, the ANC's main rival voted nearly 2-to-1 to continue most of the residents had left game," Bailey said. 
for black support, stopped short talks on ending apartheid. 
before the water moved in. No Hart said she must make two injuries were reported as a trips daily to her home to feed
ty. The negotiations were ex­
result of the flooding. the family's six horses andAs he went into a second pected to last until early Mon­Point Pleasant is about 50 check on a potbellied pig thatevening of discussions, Arafat day. Peres is due to leave at miles down the Ohio River from refused to leave the floodedwas asked whether an agree­3:30 a.m. (9:30 p.m. EST) to Parkersburg, where about 200 basement.
ment was still possible Sunday. travel to Washington.Arafat is homes were flooded on Satur­"We're going to try to get him 
remaining in Switzerland to 
day. The Ohio crested Sunday out again tonight or he'll die,""I hope so," he told reporters meet Swiss officials and to ad­near Point Pleasant at six feet she said. "It's been hard on mewhile leaning over the balcony dress the United Nations Hu­above flood stage. because I'm afraid of the wa­in the hotel where he and Peres man Rights Commission in The flooding was caused by ter."
were staying. Geneva. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD APPLICATIONS 
Are available beginning tomorrow, 
February 1 
in the Student Government office for all 
executive positions 
Applications are due by Tuesday, February 15 ·Positions are available for creative, enthusiastic people in Marketing, Programming, Financial Management and any where else you feel you could be of assistance! 
Indian Ridge Plaza Next to Venture Grope Rd.. Mishawaka 

Crazy Stuff and Morel 
277-7946 expires 2·28-94 

·KJme nate & federal regulatiOns may apply Cl copynght 199~ 011Cago Hatrcun1ng Co 

-~------------~--­
--------~-----------------------~-----------­
CAMPUSES 
Monday, January 31, 1994 page 7 
Schools see direct involvelllent 
with new student loan program 
Marquette 
. .

participates, Northwestern waits on plan 
By DAVID ClAIRMONT 
News Writer 
Within the next two months, colleges selected for the new federal student loan program will finish processing the exten­sive paperwork as they approach the actual loan date of July 1. 
The selected schools for the new federal student loan pro­gram represents a nation-wide involvement in the program. The final list of participants includes 34 public four-year colleges, 24 private four-year schools, nine community col­leges, and 38 proprietary schools. 
Each institution chosen for the program must have partici­pated in past federal loan pro­grams and have a loan default rate of less than 25 percent. Thr,y also must have used the Perkins aid ·program in the past and have the minimum techno­logical capabilities necessary to participate in the program by means of electronic networks. 
The group of schools chosen to participate in the program's first year is "intentionally well distributed," according to Daniel Goyette, director of the Office of Student Financial Aid at Marquette University. 
Most, if not all, schools will be involved in the program by the beginning of the 1995-96 academic year, said Goyette. Marquette, he predicts, will be among those schools and is "very much in support" of the program. 
The Marquette office is not presently advertising the pro­gram to its undergraduates, Goyette said, because it "impos­es an additional transition bur­den" on students. 
BRIEFS 
California schools suffer brunt of earthquakes 
The recent earthquakes in Los Angeles cause serious dam­age and the delay of classes at five colleges located near the epicenter. California State University at Northridge suf­fered the heaviest damage, with a parking structure collapsing, a science building catching fire, part of the library roof caving in, and computer terminals being damaged or destroyed. Administrators worried that student records could have been damaged or lost. with reg­istration and graduation beilig hindered by the potentially-lost data. 
Pierce College, Mission 
College, College of the Canyons, 
and Santa Monica college also 
·: • Students receive direct loans from their college instead of from ·• private lenders. . • Replaces the financially-troubled Pell Grant and Perkins Loan programs, saving taxpayers an estimated $4.3 billion through 1998. 
• 
Has a flexible payment schedule, allowing students 10 years to repay loans or the option of national service work for two years in return for housing and expense money and a $5000 education voucher for each year of service. 

• 
Lowers Stafford Loan rates by .6 percent by eliminating some 


current processing fees. . • Wilt allow the IRS to deduct money owed for loans from the · borrower's gross pay by 1996. 
MINUSES: 
• 
National service plan accepts less than one percent of the nation's college students. 

• 
Will not take full effect until 1998. Until then, only the neediest of students will be eligible to receive direct loans. 

• 
Participation among schools is strictly voluntary, though most are expected to participate. 

• 
Banks and loan organizations have raised questions about the ability of the Department of Education and colleges to manage the new system effectively. 

• 
Payment of $10,000 per year was reduced to $5000 per year after successful lobbying by veterans' groups who claimed college students would receive more money than those who had risked their 




lives in the armed forces. 
"There is no need to give out the information to the students. It will be transparent to them," Goyette said. 
"The effect of its (the pro­gram's) implementation is unknown," said Rebecca Dixon, associate provost for University Enrollment at Northwestern University. "We are adopting a 
'students think it's 
going to make get­ting more money easy but it's not.' 
Rebecca Dixon 

wait and see attitude." 
Dixon noted that the current government program for finan­cial aid to students is a "gigan­tic multibillion dollar program" and it is unrealistic to expect to transfer such a system to a direct loan basis. 
"Students think it's going to make getting more money easy but it's not," Dixon said. 
Dixon explained that critics of the direct loan program have 
suffered severe structural dam­age and class delays. Administrators have been forced to find alternate loca­tions to resume classes until facilities can be repaired on campus. 
Swarthmore to transfer after harassment claim 
As punishment for harassing a female student for a date at Swarthmore College, freshman Etwart Yearwood is being sent to another school, with his tuition to be paid by Swarthmore. Ordered by the university to "actively avoid" student Alexis Clinansmith, Yearwood was suspended by the school's disciplinary board for violatjng its order and forced to undergo counseling at the school's expense. After two concerns. The first is that the government will not be able to run the program, at least not in the way which would be most benel1cial to the students. 
Because the government must hire the lowest-priced contract, which is often short­staffed and faced with high employee turnover, reorganiz­ing the federal educational funding will be very difficult, Dixon believes. 
The second problem Dixon pointed to was capitalizing on the program. Although the loans will start immediately, "the payback won't start for years," she said, stating that banks are the institutions with the experience in such matters as wire transfer of money in between accounts. 
Some colleges "will be absolutely dependent" on time­ly transfers of funds, Dixon observed. 
The federal direct loan pro­gram "will save students money, but the tax payers will pay for it," Dixon said. 
threatening to sue, Yearwood was offered the transfer com­promise by Swarthmore President Alfred H. Bloom. A temprary transfer to Columbia University had been planned, but the university has refused Yearwood's admission due to his academic record. 
Congressman proposes to protect ticket buyers 
With thousands of University of Wisconsin football fans denied entrance to the Rose Bowl after they had paid travel agents for unavailable tickets, Rep. Scott Klug, R-Wis., plans to propose the "Badger Fan Protection Act" in Congress to protect buyers of college bowl ·game and NCAA Final Four tournament tickets offered bv charter operations. If passed. 
Loan plan lost amid NAFTA, health care 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Writer 
Lost behind NAFTA, health care reform and foreign affairs events of 1993 was the announcement of the Clinton administration's new student loan program. 
The President's program favors direct loans between a university and its students·, rather than current policies which use government agen­cies as a middle man. 
The Clinton plan has several attractive features, including a flexible payment schedule that allows students up to ten years after graduation to pay back loans or the choice of partici­pating in Clinton's new nation­al service program. 
This method of payment allows college students to work as teachers, relief workers, police or other service-related workers for two years. The stu­dents would receive housing and expense money and a $5,000 education voucher for each year of service. 
The Clinton package would also help to lower interest rates. Loans would be paid back at .6 percent lower than the current Stafford loan rates. By 1996, borrowers may have the option of the IRS taking a percentage of their gross pay as payment for the loan. 
While the plan is inviting, there are several pitfalls asso­ciated with it. Clinton's nation­al service option will accept less than one percent of the nation's college students. 
Several veteran groups lob­bied the payment down from $10,000 a year, claiming that those who have served their country in the armed forces would be cheated if college stu­dents could recieve more money for less dangerous work. 
Other problems with the plan have evoked some criticism. While the plan will be available for the 1994-95 school year, the plan will not take full effect until1998. 
the Department of Transportation must approve package deals sold through agents as it already does for the Super bowl. 
University supports ban on whites from groups 
In response to the Black Law Student Association refusing to allow two white women to attend its meetings at Hamline University, in St. Paul, Minnesota, administrators expressed their support of the right of minority-student groups to exclude whites. Students plan to challenge the new policy which has yet to be approved by the trustees. 
Information from the Chronicle ofHigher Education 
NOTRE DAME 
Direct lending has recently emerged as one of the most contentious higher-education policy issues before Congress. 
Proponents of the new plan say direct lending will save the government billions of dollars by eliminating the need to sub­sidize lenders. However, banks and organizations that buy and sell loans say that direct lend­ing will lead to chaos because the Department of Education and colleges are ill-equipped to manage the system. 
Joe Russo, director of Financial aid at Notre Dame, has investigated this new plan and has expressed concern for the outcome of the first-year experiment with the system. 
His focus has been to create a system of financial aid that will be beneficial to both stu­dents and lenders. He feels that in order to improve the current system, specific revisions are needed. 
Included are the need for the standardization and of the entire student loans process to reduce cost to the government and borrowers, and the need to reduce defaults, protect the consumer, and more fairly dis­tribute responsibilities involved in administering the loans. 
Russo is skeptical of the new program, not wanting to see Notre Dame, which has a default rate of less than one percent, shaken by the new wave of reform. 
"The government may be able to pull it off this first year," Russo said. "It will be interesting to see." 
The 105 schools selected to participate in the Federal Direct Student Loan Program (FDSLP) for the 1994-95 acade­mic year represent a cross-sec­tion of public, private, four­year, two-year, and proprietary institutions. 
Notre Dame is not among these schools and probably will not be until 1996 when statis­tics will show the program's direct effect upon students and their colleges. 
"The fact that the University 
of Notre Dame has not volun­
teered as a nrst-year partici­
pant will have no negative 
impact on Notre Dame students 
for 1994-95, as the provisions 
for both loans are virtually the 
same," said Russo. 
Russo predicts that two years will show if the FDSLP will be effective in the long run. "In the third year, if it is success­ful, you'll see a whole bunch of schools participating, including ours possibly," Russo added. 
Information about the new 
program is currently available 
upon request at the financial 
aid office but only in text, as no 
simplified brochures are in cir­
culation yet. 
"Will it be cheaper? Will it 
save the money it's supposed to 
save? Will there be standard­
ization? Will it be more effi­
cient? Will it eliminate scam 
schools? Will it reduce the 
cost?" Russo inquired. !lis 
response: "To be announced." 
-W Hudson Giles 


VIEWPOINT 
8 
Monday,Ja 


... acquitted. 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAJI\'T MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Ediror-in-Chief 
David Kinney Managing Editor Bwiness Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Ediror ................ Meredirh McCullough Advenising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoinr Ediror .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Sreph Goldman Spons Ediror .................... George Dohrmann Producrion Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Sysrems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Ediror ................................. Jake Percrs OTS Direcror ................................ Brendan Regan Sainr Mary's Ediror ............. Jennifer Habrych Conuoller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of rhe Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflecr rhe policies of rhe adminima· rion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the rTKljority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Accenr Ediror, Phoro Ediror, Sporrs Ediror, and Sainr Mary's Ediror. Commentaries. letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoinr space is available to all members of rhe Notre Damc:/Saint Mary's com­munity and to a11 readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leuers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror·in-Chief 631-4542 Aq:cnr/Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Ediror/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Sysrems/OTS 631-8839 News/Phoro 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
New 'in vitro' technique resurrects moral question 
The mad scientists appear to The "Instruction on later cases, the Supreme Court own intrinsic meaning, an tive ethic to its logical conclu­be working overtime to make Bioethics". issued··ln 1987 at has declined to decide whether unconditional respect for the sion. Through contra-ception, the Pope look good. Consider the direction of Pope John Paul the unborn child is a human fundamental criteria of the man separated sex from pro­the disclosure last month by II, affirms that "the human being. It has held that whether moral law: that is to say, they creation and made himself, British researchers of their being must be respected-as a he is human or not, the unborn must be at the service of the rather than God, the arbiter of technique to retrieve eggs (i.e., person-from the very first child is not a person and there­human person, of his inalien­when and how life would begin. ova) from aborted female instant of his existence ... "From fore has no constitutional able rights and his true and He subordinated the creation of babies, fertilize them by in vitro the time that the ovum is fertil­
integral good according to the human life to technology fertilization and implant them ized, a new life is begun which design and will of God." employed according to utilitari­in the wombs of infertile is neither that of the father nor This principle is light years an calculations. women. If the technique is of the mother, it is rather the removed from the ethic of the In "Humanae Vitae", in 1968, approved by the British Medical life of a new human being with mad scientists. They have liber­Pope Paul VI warned that con­Association and government his own growth. It would never ated themselves from the moral traception would cause man to authorities, it may be able to be made human if it were not .law. For them the unborn regard the woman as an object. produce the birth of a baby human already."' mother and her child are He could not have been think­within three years. The new British technique objects of utility, to serve the ing of "the woman" as herself 
This new technique is signifi­vindicates the insistence of the interests of others, rather than an unborn mother. But, as with cant in several respects. Some Pope upon this reality. How can persons with a dignity con­John Paul II, the British scien­hailed it as a providential an unborn child be a mother of ferred by "the design and will tists have made Paul VI look breakthrough for desperately a human being if she is not one of God." good. infertile couples. It does no herself? "If a fetus can be a The countercult.ural charac­Once contraception cut us harm to the unborn child, who mother," asked columnist Alan ter of the Church's teaching in loose from the divine plan for had just been killed anyway, Keyes, "how can we deny that it this area is seen in the Pope's procreation as taught by the and it allows a new life to come is a human being? Every time insistence, on two points, first Magisterium of the Church, into the world. Others, howev­scientists develop a child using that no one has a "right" to there could be no intrinsic limit er, have raised questions. How an egg taken from an aborted have a child and, second. that to the treatment of persons as do you tell the resulting child, female fetus, they will be prov­the child himself has a right to objects, to trafficking (even when he grows up, that his ing beyond doubt that they be conceived in a conjugal act commercial) in the bodies of the mother was never born because have violated the most basic within marriage: "A true and living as well as the dead, and she was deliberately killed in human right of its mother." proper right to a child would be to the subordination of the per­the womb by the child's grand­The British scientists have contrary to the child's dignity son to the interests of utility as mother, and that he himself is demonstrated, beyond misun­acknowledged human being is a and nature. The child is not an determined by the state. the product of a salvage expedi­derstanding even by dissiqent nonperson, which· involves the object to which one has a right. The new British technique tion on his dead mother's body? theologians or other academics, same principle that underlay nor can he be considered as an provides a window on the 
The technique, of course, what we already knew, that the depersonalization of blacks object of ownership: Rather. a future of our utilitarian tech­treats the unborn child-the every abortion, at whatever in the Dred Scott case and the child is a gift. 'the supreme gift' nocracy. "Science without con­mother-not as a human being stage of gestation, kills a liv­Nazi depersonalization and and the most gratuitous gift of science," said John Paul II in but as an object, a repository of ing-and necessarily innocent­extermination of the Jews. marriage. and is a living testi­"Bioethics". "can only lead to component parts. "This con­human being. As the journal of The new British technique mony of the mutual giving of man's ruin." It is time instead sumerist approach to the cre­the California Medical exposes this fraud of camou­his parents. for us to turn and to accept "the ation of life," said Member of Association editorially noted in flaging abortion asanything For this reason, the child has design and will of God." Totally. Parliament David Alton, "puts it 1970, legalized abortion other than the depersonaliza­the right. ..to be the fruit of the The only coherent answer here on a par with an American fast­involves "a curious avoidance of tion and execu-tion of an inno­specific act of the conjugal love lies in the moral and social food outlet." The London the scientific fact, which every­cent human being. of his parents; and he also has teachings of the Catholic Sunday Express warned of one really knows, that human The mad scientists make the the right to be respected as a Church. "fetus farming," in which life begins at conception and is Pope look good in another person from the moment of his women would conceive babies, continuous whether intra-or respect. John Paulll insisted, in conception." Prof Rice is on the Law School have abortions and sell their extrainterine until death." "Bioethics". that "science and The British scientists are faculty. His column appears fetuses for cash." In Roe u. Wade. in 1973, and technology require, for their merely carrying the contracep-every other Monday. 


ACCENT 

Monday, January 31, 1994 page 9 
Experie~ci~g the other side 
Students to travel to Florida over spring break 1n seminar 
By LAUREN KALBERER to seniors, will be selected to Accent writer attend the "Migrant Experiences" seminar, said 
For a group of Notre Dame Niemann. and Saint Mary's students, their . Students will participate in a spring breaks will be spent in variety of events including a someplace warm, but not at the welcoming picnic upon arrival usual college spots like Daytona at Guadelupe Services, a center Beach or Fort Lauderdale. which assists migrant workers 
During the week of March 4-in southwestern Florida. 13, a group of Notre Dame and On March 6, the students will Saint Mary's students will trav­attend a prayer service, a gen­el to Immokalee, a town in eral orientation to the program south central Florida, to partici­and the city and a Haitian pate in "Migrant Experiences: Mass. 


Carrot Top, 1993 Campus Entertainer of the Year, comes to Washington Hall tonight at 8 p.m. 
Into the Fields," the second The students will also engage had the opportunity to experi­Anzilotti also worked in a gram.
in three small group discus­
annual experiential service pro­ence first-hand homelessness in health clinic with a retired "Jack Stanley, the president 
gram co-sponsored by the sions with members of the com­
Immokalee. physician who volunteers his of the Southwest Florida Center for Social Concerns and munity throughout the week. Anzilotti befriended Jimbo, a services to AIDS and arthritis Alumni club, is really excited 
the Notre Dame Alumni Workers from different 
homeless man who worked in patients four days per week. about getting more alumni to Association. branches of the city will discuss the city's packing house. Jimbo Anzilotti said he was espe­participate this coming year."
The goal of "Migrant the social and political prob­regularly slept on the front cially impressed and inspired said Niemann. 
Experiences" is to match stu­lems faced by the residents of steps of a building near by the physician's commitment Niemann is looking forwardImmokalee.
dents' interests with specific Guadelupe Services. and dedication to the people of to the cultural aspect of the 
jobs, according to Laurie One distinctive facet of the For three or four nights, his community. seminar. 
program is that it allows stu­
Niemann, Notre Dame senior Anzilotti said that he stayed "Migrant Experiences," which "The program is a truly mul­
and the Notre Dame Alumni dents to live and work closely with and talked to Jimbo. began through the support of ticultural experience becausewith Immokalee residents in
Association community service "As I listened to Jimbo's ex­the Alumni Association. offers the uarticiuants live among
program assistant. their respective nelds, accord­
periences, I was filled with re­the opportunity for both stu­peop-le [originally] from Cuba,Participants will have the op­ing to Niemann. spect and admiration for him," dents and alumni to work Mexico, Guatemala, and Haiti,"
portunity to work closely with "There are a whole variety of said Anzilotti. together in service, said Niemann said. Immokalee residents in various fields depending on student in­"Though I saw Jimbo as a Niemann. 
fields, as well as social and gov­terest," said Niemann. hero, the idea that others would She explained that alumni "Migrant Experiences" is ernmental agencies, said Students will work in various 
condemn him as a loser was mainly coordinate the event for open to all students from Notre 
Niemann. agencies including the local 
eye-opening." student participation. Dame and Saint Mary's. 
hospice, homeless shelter, mid­
The format of the trip will be Anzilotti said that he contin­"It is challenging to combine Though the application dead­
similar to the Appalachia and dle school, medical clinic and ues to correspond with Jimbo, the efforts of the students and line was January 28, Niemannthe Health and Rehabilitation
Washington, D.C. spting break who currently lives in Portland, the alumni because they have said that students who are still seminars sponsored by the esc. Services agency. Oregons. different schedules," said interested in participating in 
Approximately 12 Notre Craig Anzilotti, Notre Dame "In fact, I received a letter Niemann. the program should contact the Dame and Saint Mary's stu­senior and co-chair of the pro­
from him just the other day," However, the alumni are ex­esc for further details as soon dents, ranging from freshmen gram with Niemann last year, said Anzilotti. tremely supportive of the pro-as possible. 
Carrot Top brings his wacky humor to Washington Hall 
I
By CHRIS LENKO talked about hit, according to Carrot Top's appeal. The come­Accent writer Megan Duffy, student activities dian is a master of improvisa­programmer with the Student tion, and his unique perfor­magine someone who Union Board. mances feature a variety of un­steals a Domino's Pizza usual hand-made props and delivery boy uniform, Carrot Top's popularity with costumes, according to Gayle orders out for pizza and then students was a factor in inviting Spencer, assistant director of answers the door in the uni­him to return this year, accord­student activities. form to confuse the deHvery ing to Duffy. boy. Since his last visit to Notre "Carrot Top is really cre­
Dame, Carrot Top has been fea­ative," said Spencer. 
Who is this interesting, tured on numerous television "He is successful because he bizarre person? None other shows and received national plays off the crowd's energy than Carrot Top. recognition as a popular college and makes things up as he goes 
It has been a year and a half performer. along." since Carrot Top, the notorious red-haired college entertainer, In 1993, Carrot Top received Carrot Top's goal is to make visited Notre Dame and thrilled the Campus Entertainer of the people see the humor in every­the crowds with his elaborate Year and National Campus day situations, according to sketches and twisted ideas. Comedian of the Year Awards. Duffy. 
"Carrot Top's humor is 
Last year, Carrot Top played His resume of television ap­lighthearted, with a stress on to sold-out crowds at pearances includes segments being goofy and fun," said Washington Hall as part of a on Comic Strip Live, MTV, The Duffy. weekend of activities welcom­Tonight Show and Regis & ing students back to campus. Kathie Lee, among others. Carrot Top is also the first 
This year's show, scheduled Carrot Top has also sur­person to make fun of his own for 8 p.m. this evening, also passed Harry Chapin's popular­appearance, which can best be sold out several weeks ago. ity to become the most booked described as unusual. she 
act ever on the college market. added. Carrot Top's one-man im­"I think students will really provisational show was a much It isn't hard to understand enjoy the show," said Duffy. 
-.... 
~ ~. . 
I 
I I 
The Observer· WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Monday, January 31, 1994 
I Irish take over first place in the MCC 

By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team moved into sole possession of first place in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference with an impressive 80-67 homecourt win against Detroit Mercy Saturday night. 
The Irish win, coupled with a loss by Butler University to LaSalle earli­er that day, enabled the Irish to move into first place alone with a 4-1 MCC record. 
Going into Saturday's game, the Irish shared first place with both Butler and Detroit Mercy, with each team owning a 3-1 record in MCC play. 
Against the Titans, the Irish came out strong, controlling the tempo early. 
Senior forward Tootie Jones, who
.­
fmished the game with a career-best 22 points, scored first for the Irish, who went on an early 12-0 run to pull ahead of the Titans at 16-5 just 
6:41 into the game. The swarming Irish defense forced 11 Titan turnovers in the first half, and the offense lit up the board from long range, shooting 5 of 9 from 3­point range. 
This aggressive style of play on both sides of the ball contributed to a 41-30 Irish first half lead, and forced the Titans to play catchup in the sec­ond half. 
Tootie Jones had 10 points for the Irish in the first half, and senior for­ward Sherri Orlosky finished the half with 12, nine of which came off 3­point shots. 
In the second half of the game, the Irish had to contend with a more aggressive Titan team, led by guard Amira Danforth, who scored 16 sec­ond half points to finish with a game-high 25 points. ' 
The Titans, bolstered by the play of Danforth and the support of a group of vocal fans, pulled to within eight points of the Irish when Marnie Buchanan drained a 3-pointer to make it 59-51 with 9:51 left in the game. 
That was the closest Detroit Mercy would get, though, as Tootie Jones exploded for eight of the Irish's next 10 points, and freshman sensation Beth Morgan would connect for 10 second half points. 
A solid team effort would result in a 80-67 final score, as the Irish post­ed their 13th straight win against the Titans. Notre Dame now leads the series 19-2, including an 11-0 record at the JACC. 
Most importantly for the Irish, though, the win put the team, now 13-5, in complete control of first­place in the competitive MCC. 
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw was impressed \\'ith her team's per­formance, saying, "This was a really big win. With Butler's loss, we're now in sole possession of first place, which is where we want to stay. Tootie Jones played great and Sherri Orlosky also played very well, with a season-high 19. The bench also con­tributed well, and was an important factor in the game, as it has been all season." 
The next test for the Irish will come next Saturday when they travel to Chicago to face Loyola University (5-12 overall, 1-5 MCC). 
No journey is too long for Leary's family and friends 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 

Fan support is something that any athlete appreciates, al­though sometimes to a degree. 
While most athletes will never get to meet many of their most ardent supporters, family mem­bers and close friends are often their most influential fans. 
When senior point guard and floor leader Kara Leary took to the court along with her team­mates on the Notre Dame women's basketball team in a crucial game against Detroit Mercy on Saturday night, eight such fans were in the stands at the JACC to see her play. 
Kara's mother, cousin, and six other friends made the 700 mile trip from Nashua, New Hampshire to root on the fiery 5-5 senior and her teammates. 
The group arrived at Michi­ana Regional Airport at 7 a.m. Saturday morning via a private jet called a Citation. The jet was piloted by Dick Hawkins and Don Cantrell, two friends of the Leary family. 
The arrival of the group came as a complete surprise to Leary, who helped contribute to the Irish's 80-67 win over the rival Titans with a team-high seven assists and five steals. 
Saturday's game was the fifth that Leary's mom has attended this year. She was also in at­tendance for the Brown Tour­nament at Providence, where Leary was named MVP. 
Leary has come a long way as a player for the Irish. 
A walk-on in her freshman and sophomore seasons, Leary took over the starting position midway through her sopho­more year, when the team was lacking in cohesiveness. 
The Irish went 8-4 after Leary's insertion into the start­ing lineup, and went on to the NCAA's, eventually winning their conference. 
Leary split time her junior season, playing in all but two games, and in this, her final season, Kara has found herself a team captain who is averag­ing nearly eight points a game and leading the Irish with 91 assists and 43 steals. 
It is play such as this that has earned Leary the admiration of many fans, who no doubt would agree with one of the family friends, who commented, "We were very fortunate to be able to see Kara play." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard 233-2342 /1 0-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun 
IRISH ACCENT 
Notre Dame's 
Comedy lmprov Troupe 
SHOW 
Wed., February 2 
@ 9:00 
in LaFortune Ballroom 
Admission: $1 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: diamond ring--i.musual set­ting~omewhere between the Linebacker and Turtle Creek on Friday Night, 1121. Extreme senti­mental value. If you found it, please call Adriana 273-4803 REWARD OFFERED 
LOST-TIMEX WATCH WITH INDIGLO. It has a black leather band. I lost it on Sat., Jan. 22, either at North Dining Hall. Lafortune, or on the way from NOH to Lafortune. If you have any info or have found it, please call Rich Glatz at 4-1143. Thanks. 
Lost: Set of keys on a red scuba 
fin keychain. North County Scuba 
written on keychain. If found 
please call Greg at 4-1620. 
LOST: my two car keys. They are bound to a medal with St Christopher on one side and Notre Dame de Paris written on the other side. If you have any info, please call Huy @ 273-5859. Thanks! 

LOST: gold chain & cross w/ G in a heart at center. on path to Debartalo between Niewland & Hayes-Healy. REWARD. x1829 
WANTED 
I 

....SPRING BREAK '94•••• 
Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and 
your trip is FREEl TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (B00)32B-7283. 
Can you type fast? I need a typist! Will pay $1.50/pg. Call634-5117 
Need one extra JPW ticket for all events DESPI;RATEL Y!l!l!ll! Will pay $$$$$$. Call Kelly at x3506 
$700/wk. canneries; $4500/mo. deckhands. Alaska summer fish­eries now hiring. Employment 
Alaska 1 -206-323-2672 
SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+ in salary & benefits. Ski/Snowboard instructors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet staff+ other positions (includ­ing summer). Over 15,000 open­ings. For rnore information call: (206)634-0469 ext. V55B4 
Men and Women needed for free 
haircuts. Call Cosima's 277-1B75 
ROOMMATE WANTED Handicapped 2B-year-old male looking for 2-3 people to share house 5-10 mins. from campus. Will provide FREE RENT in exchange for helping me one hour per day and assisting in caring for house, lawn and driveway. Begins immed. Prefer grad student and require ·per­son who will be in South Bend year-round. If interested call Adam 2B9­9342. 
Need ride to and from Atlanta/Spring Break Will pay&help drive Bridgette X2343 
Campus newspaper carrier/manag­er needed immediately for St. Mary's campus, call City News Service Inc., 232-3205. 
Home delivery newspaper carriers needed for morning delivery, car required. Call City News Service Inc., 232-3205. 
I 
FOR RENT 
NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BDRM $225. MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO. AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306 
SUMMER OR FALL "94".LARGE 6 BDRM HOME 2 BATHS. 1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. ALL HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306 
FURNISHED BAND 4 BEDROOM HOUSES 1 MILE NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
SECURITY SYSTEM 
ALL APPLIANCES 
1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 
232 2595 
FREE MAID SERVICE '94-95 Big 6 bedrm.,great area, B.B. & sand V-ball courts. 234-3831 or 273-04B2 
I NEED ROOMMATES! 
Summer + 94-95 year 
150/mo furn+util pd-MUST SEE! 
Hickory Village-5 min to campus 
273-8369 
FOR SALE 
MacCiassic, 4/40 $600. Queensize sleepersofa, 1 yearold, $350. Call 256-5202 eves. 
TICKETS 

Seniors!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Did you buy an extra ticket to 
Phantom? 
Need to get rid of it? 
Want to get rid of it$ 
Call Jonny "donnie" Trump 2B2-2206 and leave message. 
Spring Break Airline Ticket for Sale: From South Bend to Key West, Florida leaving Thursday, March 3 and returning on Friday, March 11. Best offer. Call Steph at 273-654B. 
Will pay $$BIG BUCKS$$ for Garth Brooks Tickets. Call Sarah at #3818. 
PERSONAL 
JPW wknd confrmd reservation 
@ Jamison Inn avail. for trade for cnfrmd hotel res. Stanford wknd, Sep29-0ct1 call Paui1-B00-53B­9363-(xt)512B 
&&·&·&r&··&·&·&··&>··&···(o> 
CAN YOU FIGURE OUT THE 
SENIOR BAR ADS???? IT'S A 
PUZZLE EACH TIME ..... 
··&·&·&ooo&&·&·&·&·&·&>w&·o 
ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure couple longs for a newborn to join our family. Please call Nancy and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. 
ATIENTION SENIORS! I'll trade you the 49ers for a pair of Phantom tickets! Well, maybe not the whole team, but if you need to sell them for whatever reason, don't give them away, sell them to a friend. Call Eddie "Jonnie" Debartolo 282-2206 
••••• APPALACHIA NOTICE ••••• 
TO ALL STUDENTS APPLYING FOR THE APPALACHIAN SEMI­NAR THIS SPRING BREAK: APPLICATIONS ARE DUE TODAY TOTHECSC. 
••••• APPALACHIA NOTICE ••••• 
Help! hitchhiking is dangerous and 
Mud needs a ride to Dayton for 
JPW (2-18, 19,20) call her at x2574 
or x2575. 

SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-B00-7B6­8373 
It's the 31st day of the year! 
Who is John Galt? Who is Joe Evans? Who is corporate boy? 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! 1 -800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica! Fly out of Chicago and spend B days on the beach! We have the best trips & prices! Includes air & hotel & parties from $399! 1-BOO­67B-63B6 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 days oceanview room with kitchen $119! Walk to best bars! Includes free dis­count card -save $50 on cover charges! 1 -B00-678-6386 
Florida's New Spring Break hotspots! Cocoa Beach & Key West! More upscale than Panama City/Daytona! Great beaches & 
nightlife! 8 days in 27 acre Cocoa 
Beachfront Resort $159! Key West $249! 1 -800-678-63B6 
SOPHOMORES!!!! 

Form turn-in for Sophomore Sibs 
Weekend is Jan. 31 in the Sorin 
Room from 3-6:30 p.m. 
Don't miss out on the opportunity to share Notre Dame with your sib. 
All monies, forms, etc. should be 
turned in at that lime. 

Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help each other. Medllegal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 
1-BOO-B64-B3B5. 

SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LON­DON & ROME IN 21ST YEAR. TRAVEL IN IREL,SCOT,ENG,FR,GER,SWITZ, & ITALY. COURSES IN PHOTO, BIO,BUS, ECON,HIST,SOC,ITAL­IAN.& LIT. MEETING 6:30PM FEB. 8 CARROLL HALL SMC. FOR INFO-PROF. BLACK 2B4-4460 
••••••••BEAT THE RUSH•••••••• VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching, and if you want to 
write a classified to that special someone, you can type your ad now. Your message will appear in the special Valentine's Observer on Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd floor of Lafortune. 
...................................... 
Help, I'm dying and I need two lick­ets to Phantom for Feb. 3! It's my last dying wish. Well, ok, so maybe I'm not dying but the tickets sold so fast I'm sick. Please help me out! Thanx! Calllma • Jonnie" Sickman 282-2206 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 

DON'T FORGET!!I!!!!!I!I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I!!!!! $ If you did not pick up your $ money from the Book Fair $ yet, come and gel it before $ FEBRUARY 9. You can get it $ in the Student Government $ office, 2nd floor of LaFortune $ between Bam and noon and $ 1 and 5pm. 
2 girls going to Cancun lhru College Trs want to comb. w/ other grp. Help! x2B4-5525 
....­

Monday, January 31, 1994 
No Kidd-ing: Cal upsets No. 1 UCLA 
By WENDY E. LANE Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. 

Jason Kidd took over the game, and once again a new team will take over the No. 1 ranking. 
Kidd had 18 points, a career-high 14 rebounds and 12 assists Sunday, leading California to an 85-70 upset of UCLA, which ensured itself of becoming the latest top-ranked team to have a short stay in that spot. 
The Bruins (14-1, 7-1 Pac­10), who were the last unde­feated team in Division I, never led during the game and shot ·ust 38 percent. They moved into the No. 1 spot last week, then barely beat Stanford, 69­65 Thursday night. 
Kidd stepped up after George Zidek's free throw with 
4:41 left pulled UCLA to 70-68. He fed a pass to Ryan Jamison for a layup, then proceeded to score nine of the last 11 points for the Golden Bears (12-4, 5­2). He added a steal and a de­fensive rebound in the waning minutes. 
"I just let the game come to me," Kidd said. "I don't tell myself to take over the game. I 
~OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for 
Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be com­fortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any full-time Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student is encouraged to apply. 
Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior Business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's 
interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants 
should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills, and a basic 
understanding of accounting principles. 
Please submit a 3 page personal statement ofintent and a resume to jake Peters by Friday, February 4 at 5 p.m. For questions about the positions call Managing Editor, Kevin Hardman at 631-4541 or Business Manager Brian Kennedy at 631-5313. 
WHY fAKE ABUS fO fHE BEACH WHEN YOU CAN SfAY IN ABEACH fi?ONf HOfEL???? 
Anthony Travel's SPRING BREAK 1994 
Packages Options: 
(1) 
Cozumel, Mexico 

(2) 
Cancun, Mexico 

(3) 
Nassau, Bahamas 


ANTHONY TRAVEL ..... ON CAMPUS!! 
Call Today! 631 -7080 or stop by in the basement of LaFortune Student Center! 
The official travel service of Notre Dame 
go how the pace is going." 
The pace, which Kidd estab­lished from the start, was fast and the play physical. But Cal's switch to a zone defense forced the Bruins to go outside, where they were 1-for-19 from 3-point range. 
"It's hard to swallow," said forward Ed O'Bannon, whose 24 points led the Bruins. "We were used to winning. But I think we're good enough and confident enough to bounce back." 
"They did what they had to do," UCLA coach Jim Harrick said. "We came back. We got to the mountain. We just couldn't get over it." 
UCLA, which scored just three points in the final 5:34, couldn't overcome Cal's defense and couldn't stop Kidd at the end. 
"He's their floor general on the court," forward Charles O'Bannon said. "He won the game for them. That's what you expect but you really have to key in on the rest of the guys." 
But UCLA couldn't stop the other guys either. Monty Buck· ley got loose for 23 points on 8· for-12 shooting and Lamond Murray added 21. 
Leading 45-35 at halftime, 
. All Packages Include: 8 days I 7 nights Air from Chicago Plus much more!! 
from $478 
Buckley scored 11 of Cal's first 13 points of the second half, giving the Bears a 58-43 ad­vantage with 15:08 to play. UCLA outscored Cal 11-2 to cut its deficit to six points with 
11:22 remaining. 
A free throw by Tyus Edney got the Bruins within 64-63 with 7:36 remaining, but he missed one to tie it. 
Injuries have forced Cal coach Todd Bozeman to use eight different starting lineups this season, and although his team registered a 98-93 upset at then-No. 6 Arizona, the Bears have been inconsistent, losing to Santa Clara and Stanford. 
"Our guys feel we're on o the best teams on the West Coast," Bozeman said. "But we need to work hard at being consistent for 40 minutes. I you can do it now, it shows you can do it at any time." 
Cal used the zone to hold the Bruins to 40 percent shooting in the first half and built 29-16 lead on a 3-pointer by Anwar McQueen with 9:19 to go in the period. UCLA answered with a 10·0 run started by two con­secutive three-point plays by O'Bannon. 
---~ -·--------~~---­

The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Goalie Greg Louder kept the Irish close against No. 1 Michigan. 
Hockey 
continued from page 16 Louder with a minute left in an attempt to tie the contest. Right after Louder got off the ice, Mike Knuble found the empty net. Notre Dame sliced the lead in half with 23 seconds left when Brent Larnrnpa tipped in a Tim Harberts drive. The 2-1 score was short­lived, though, as Michigan won the ensuing draw and Kevin Hilton filled the empty net. Still, the Irish were proud of their performance. 
"They're definitely improv­ing as team," said Michigan coach Red Berenson. "If the trend continues, the next game will be a hell of a game. This game and the crowd is a trib­ute to college hockey." 
The crowd he was referring to set a new regular season NCAA record for a college hockey game. In fact, the annual event was oversold by 500 tickets. 
If the Irish want to a fifth shot at Michigan they have to start to win some games. Next weekend, Notre Dame enter­tains Miami of Ohio for two games. 
Sopf~v~~o~e Sab~ We~ke~d 

TODAY-
i"' the Soril'\ Room of LaFortt.-~1'\e from 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Marten 
continued from page 16 

Notre Dame and was interested in corning here, but opted for Providence. 
Want to know why? "I wanted to play in a great league," said Croshere. 
Even Friars coach Rick Barnes admitted after the game that Notre Dame needs a con­ference and that the Big East would be a good choice. 
"Players want to play in a conference" said Barnes. "Notre Dame has a mystique about it, but its basketball has been hurt by a !ask of affiliation with a league." 
All of this discussion is pos­sible because the Big East is considering realignment in the near future. Many envision a bigger Big East with two divi­sions. 
In the first division for bas­ketball-only schools would be: Georgetown, Seton Hall, Con­necticut, St. John's, Providence, Villanova, Notre Dame and De­Paul. 
In the second division for all­
sports schools would be: Syra­
cuse, Boston College, Miami, 
Pittsburgh, West Virginia, 
Temple, Rutgers and Virginia 
Tech. 

If this happens, the Big East is the best choice for Notre Dame because five of the other schools in the division would be Catholic and because it would not require the commitment of any other sports. 
Barnes sees benefits to the addition of Notre Dame and DePaul to the Big East. 
"From the Big East stand­point, it would be great for the conference. They're two out­standing institutions. They have a lot in common with us," said Barnes. "It would make Notre Dame a top-five program." 
Additionally, it's no secret that the athletic department has its eye on the bottom line and that the money is in televi­sion. 
The extension of the NBC football contract which includes four horne basketball games a year indicates that the powers that be are interested in getting more television coverage. 
The Big East, as one of the country's premier conferences, has extensive television cover­age. On almost any weekend, it is hard not to find a Big East game on one of the three net­works or on ESPN. 
It is also important to consid­er that a horne conference game would practically guaran­tee a sell-out. 
Although there was a large 

Monday, January 31, 1994 
contingent of fans at the Provi­dence game, there were also a lot of empty seats. 
MacLeod says that, "My ulti­mate goal is to build our team into a consistent power and get the Joyce Center to the point where you can't get a ticket. I want to get that done and get that building rockin' and I'm not going to be satisfied until that happens." 
The student support was more vocal during the second half, but the noise wasn't deaf­ening. 
Now, if the game had meant moving up in the Big East con­ference standings, a few eardrums would have been damaged and the students would have left sounding like Marge Simpson's sisters. 
A depressing statistic for this year's senior class is that it is the first class to come through Notre Dame in over forty years that never went to the NCAA Tournament. Providence is 11­5 and should probably finish somewhere in the middle of the Big East standings. 
But, with a championship tournament at the end of the season, the Friars have a chance to represent the Big East at the NCAA Tournament while the Irish players and fans will be left to watch March Madness from South Bend. 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments .at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FoR 


'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FoR MoRE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
3:00-6:30 p.m. This co~.-~ld be yo~.-~r last chal'\ce to reserve yo~.-~r brother's or sister's spot il'l the 
weekel'\d (March 18-20) of festivities. 
Spolt\so~ed by the Sophomo~e Class 
Ill 
::1: 
1­


HEY JUNIORS! 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1994-95 
ARE NOW AVAILABLE 

Marr'IC1l.l§ & ' Meghan
-~ 

PICK THEM UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 25, 1994 

,-------------~--------.------.-----------.-­
Monday, January 31, 1994 The Observer • MEN'S BASKETBALL page 13 
ing 5-for-6 from beyond the arc shifted back to the Irish before on the way to scoring 27 points. halftime, as a Jon Ross drive
Hoops 
"We knew Brown was a good and Monty Williams jumper 
player, but we didn't expect gave Notre Dame a tenuous 40­continued from page 16 
him to go 9-for-10," com­39 halftime lead. hitting two NBA-range three mented MacLeod with a wry The second half began all­pointers. smile. ''I'm sure if you ask Providence. 
Then Monty Williams took Brown, he didn't expect to go 9-Brown continued to rain over. for-10 either." down threes on the Notre Dame Scoring at will en route to 22 As Providence narrowed the defense, and was helped by first half points, Williams took a Irish lead in the first half, tem­freshman Austin Croshere, who 
pass on the wing from Admore pers began to flare under the came off the bench to score ten White, went behind his back boards, where Notre Dame points. past one defender and sliced maintained a surprising advan­Notre Dame's ten point lead through two more, connecting tage. had long since been forgotten for a three point play to give The result was an altercation as the Friars went up 67-51 
the Irish what would be their between Notre Dame's Joe Ross with ten minutes left. However, largest lead, 26-16. and Providence's Eric Williams the Irish were not about to let 
"The last two games have (a 14 ppg scorer) that led to the the fans leave without torment­been Monty's games," ex­ejection of both players. ing them further, staging a plained MacLeod. "If you walk "(Williams) gave Joe a fore­rousing comeback that kept on the floor before the game, arm to the neck on the other alive the hopes for an upset. you see number three and you end, so downcourt Joe took a With the defense keeping the know that he is going to be a swing at him and made good Friars off the scoreboard, Notre player." contact," stated an exasperated Dame went on a 19-2 run, 
Providerice also had a "play­MacLeod. "We've seen enough sparked by a Lamarr Justice er" on the court in shooting of this over the past two years three point play and Hoover's guard Michael Brown. Coming that we're going to take things long range shooting. off a double screen to the top of into our own hands if the refer­However, just as Notre Dame the key, Brown had a field day ees fail to make the calls." instilled hope in the fans, against the Irish defense, going As Ross left the arena to a Providence was compelled to 9-for-10 from the floor includ-standing ovation, momentum crush it. The Friars regained 
their composure and Croshere and Brown hit wide open threes to put the game out of reach. 
"Croshere and Brown both stepped up," stated Friar coach Rick Barnes. "Croshere is a kid who doesn't get a lot of min­utes, but he knocked down that three like he's been there all year." 
Notre Dame will look to break their losing skid tonight when they host Cal-St. Northridge at 7:30p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
NOTRE DAME (75): M.Williams 12-21 5-8 31, Taylor 1-5 0-0 2, Joe Ross 2-2 0-0 4, Hoover 3-6 4­4 13, Justice 1-4 1-1 3, White 1-1 0-0 2, Kurowski 3-5 0-0 8, Miller 0-2 0-0 0, Jon Ross 3-5 0-0 6, Hughes 2-2 0-0 4, Cozen 1-2 0-0 2. TOTALS: 29­55 10-14 75. 
PROVIDENCE (82): Western 2-5 4-4 8, Smith 3-4 0-Q 6, Simpkins Q-6 7-9 7, Abdullah 1-4 0-0 2, Brown 9-10 4-4 27, Zielinski 2-2 0-Q 6, E. Williams Kurowski 2-3, M. Williams 2-4, Justice Q-2, Miller 0-Rebounds-Notre Dame 29 (M. Williams 8).
3-5 2-3 8, Phelps 3-8 1-1 8, Croshere 3-5 2-3 10. TOTALS: 26-49 20-24 82. 
2, Taylor 0-1. Jon Ross 0-1), Providence 10-17 Providence 25 (Simpkins 6). Assists-Notre Dame Halftime-Notre Dame 40, Providence 29. 3­
(Zielinski 2-2, Croshere 2-2, Brown 5-6, Phelps 1-5, 15 (Hoover, Justice, White 3), Providence 19 polnt goals-Notre Dame 7-17 (Hoover 3-4, 
Simpkins 0-2). Fouled out-none. Ejected-Joe (Abdullah 19). Total Fouls-Notre Dame 17, Ross (Notre Dame), Eric Williams (Providence). Providence 16. Attendence-9,369. 
TTE 

N H 0 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" ""Where Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH. DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 


~­
Monday, January 31, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 
It's deja vu as Dallas dumps Buffalo again 
Bumbling Bills set record for futility 
By DAVE GOLDBERG Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
The Dallas Cowboys are champions again and the Buffalo Bills are the undisputed kings of the Super Bowl flop. 
The Cowboys and the Bills both made Super Bowl history Sunday, thanks to two unlikely stars, James Washington and a redeemed Leon Lett. 
Washington, a backup safety, had a hand in 17 of Dallas' points as they beat the Bills 30-13 and won their second straight NFL title and sent Buffalo to a record fourth straight Super Bowl defeat. 

No franchise in the history of American team sports has lost the championship game four straight times. 
Emmitt Smith ran for 132 yards and two touchdowns as Dallas 'became the lOth straight NFC team to win the league's title game by outscoring the Bills 24-0 in the second half after trail­ing 13-6 at halftime. 
But it was Washington who turned the game around as the Cowboys became just the fifth team to win in con­secutive years and tied San Francisco and Pittsburgh with four Super Bowl victories. 
Washington returned a fumble 46 yards for a touchdown, intercepted a pass in the fourth quarter that led to another, and forced a first-half fumble that led to a field goal. Both fumbles were by Buffalo's star running back, Thurman Thomas, whose frustration seemed to symbolize the entire team's. 
Lett, who has had to endure two notorious gaffes, made the play that turned the game, stripping Thomas of the ball on the third play of the second half with Buffalo holding a 13-6 lead. 
Washington, whose interception led to Dallas' first touchdown in last year's 52-17 rout of Buffalo, picked it up and rambled in for the touchdown that tied the game, changed the momentum for­ever and guaranteed Buffalo its place in NFL history. 
Smith and the Dallas defense then took over. 
Smith rushed rushing for 61 of his yards on the next drive, scoring from 15 yards out to give Dallas a 20-13 lead. Lett, Charles Haley, Jim Jeffcoat and Darren Woodson, meanwhile, all made big defensive plays to shut down the Buffalo offense. 
0 \1o-s au,/i
.0~ 234-4015 '~o\1' 
%e ~iggest o/a{ue 9\{prtli oftlie ~order o~~ k"~'~c ~~~~~ 50¢ OFF ~lfPu~l!~v
\ ~~ 4to~Yf 'J ~rs 
"\) \~ Any Submarine Sandwich ~'sJ:tt Bandito Burrito or Pancho's Nachos ~~ 
AT THE CORNER OF NOTRE DAME AVE. AND SOUTH BEND AVE. JUST BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS OR YOUR ABODE 
' 
Ifyou missed ]PW '94 seating registration it will be held again 
Monday, January 31 thru Wednesday February 2 4 p.m.-9 p.m. CCE Room 112 
Absolute Last Chancel 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER 





FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
JAY HOSLER 
WI\~ \5 IT Tl-lf>..T I C~N 

A C\GI>.RETTE />.0 Jll'I<;LE fROM 2S 'iEt>-R'S A\:10, \3\lT I Q'llil'l Rt.M8.\.IS£R 'N\-\to-T I -l\J$1 
GOT \JI' TO \)O? 

DAVE KELLEIT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "Shane" star 5 Late actor Phoenix 10 "Dark Lady" singer, 1974 14 "--in a 
manger ..." 15 Author Zola 16 "--,from New 
York ..." 17 Haircuts? 19 Kathleen Battle 
offering 20 "--we having 
fun yet?" 21 Glowing 22 Kuwaiti 
structure 240pening word 
26 Broadway show based on a comic strip 
27 Dubuque native 29 Imperturbable 33 Become frayed 36 Former spouses 38 Conceited smile 39Hawkeye 
portrayer 40 Recording auditions 42 Garfield's canine pal 43 Pilots let them 
down 45 Cushy 46 Catches some 
Z's 471t fugits 49Gullible 51 Sufficient 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


DINING HALL 
53 Knucklehead 57 Horoscope heading 60 Police blotter abbr. 61 Prospector's 
find 62 World rotator? 63 Fake 
embroidery? 66Augury 67 "This way in" 
sign 68 --carotene 69 Emcee Parks 70 Nursery 
packets 71 Flowery verses 
DOWN 
1 Actor Lorenzo 2 Conscious 30dense 
residents 4 Recolor 5 Critiqued 6"... --aman 
with seven 
wives" 7 --ordinaire 8 "Candle in the 
Wind" singer --John 9Copal and others 10 Vandalized art work? 11 Put on staff 12 Heinous 13 Kind of estate 18 Movie Tarzan --Lincoln 
23Whoppers 25 Smog? 28 Showy flower 28 Lumber camp 
implements 30 Verdi heroine 31 Stumble 32 Makes do, with 
"out" 33 Float 34 Madame's 
pronoun 35 Eden resident 37 Divan 

41 Scoundrels 44 Its usefulness goes to waste 48Cumin and 
cardamom 50 Test tube 52 Actor Greene 54 Courted 55 Livid 
56 Ann Richards's bailiwick 57 Poor fellow 58 "Be our guest!" 59 Concluded 60 Thunderstruck 64 Part of a year in Provence 65 Cable add-on 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 


--· -------------~---------------------------­
.. SPORTS 
page 16 


No. 1 Michigan is king of the Palace 
Record crowd sees Wolverines escape improving Irish, 3-1 
-

The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Michigan's Mike Legg (15) and Notre Dame's Bryan Welch get tangled in a race for the puck. 
Friars add to Notre Dame's frustration 
Another upset Is Big East the bid falls just short answer for Irish? 
Qu e s t i o n : 
-·~­

By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 

What will the
Assistant SportS Editor 

Notre Dame men's basket­
No longer can the Notre Dame 
ball team be
men's basketball team be termed doing the first'Team Inept.' 
week of
Now the correct terminology is March?
'Team Frustration.' 
According to

Following Saturday's 82-75 the schedule, Jen Ma~enloss to Providence, the Irish 
there's a Jock Smp
showed the home crowd why chance to avenge the 70-58
they were able to stay with No. 2 defeat at the hands of the LoyolaDuke, putting on a well-played Ramblers and the season closerand at times spectacular display. 
at home against Dayton. Whoop­
They also showed why they 
de-doo.
own a discouraging 5-13 record What the Irish should be doing
and are in the midst of a six 
is gearing up for the Big Eastgame losing streak. 
Tournament the next weekend atThere were times against the Madison Square Garden. 
Friars that the Irish did every­
Saturday's game against
thing right. However, with the Providence was proof that thegame on the line, it was the ex­Notre Dame basketball team is in
perienced Big East squad that 
dire need of a conference .and anmade the plays. 
indication of what could be. The"Our effort is substantially bet­reasons for joining a conferenceter, and the sensational come­and, more specifically, the Bigback shows the character of this. 
East are compelling.
team," stated Irish head coach Although Digger Phelps leftJohn MacLeod. "Down the .·. him with a legacy of mediocre
stretch, though, we got antsy 
·•· talent and limited scholarshipwith the ball and our quick money, John MacLeod has yet toshooting just killed us." 
land a big-name recruit in hisUnlike ma11y previous games, first three years here. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 
It is not necessarily his fault. 

quick start, taking the game 
Providence freshman Austinright at the Friars. 
Croshere hit a three-pointer lateWith Ryan Hoover struggling to in Saturday's game to seal thefind his shot, sophomore Keith game for the Friars. It turns outKurowski came off the bench to that Croshere was recruited bygive the Irish an immediate lift, 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
see HOOPS I page 13 Monty Williams tips in two of his game-high 31 points. see MARTEN I page 12 
Earthquake shakes Cal-State Northridge 
Observer Staff Report 

Basketball just doesn't seem as important to the Cal-State Northridge basketball team anymore. 
Recovery is what matters now. 
Two weeks ago, while the team was in Boulder, Colo. preparing for a game against the University of Colorado, the Northridge campus saw some of the worst damage from the earthquake that ravaged south­ern California on Jan. 17. 
Fourteen people died when an apartment building col­lapsed just two blocks from the university and nearly $125 mil­lion in damage was done to the school's 58 buildings. 
The quake also shook the spirits of the team members, who are now more concerned with rebuilding than rebound­ing. 
Long-time coach Pete Cassidy had a particularly tough time in the wake of the disaster. 
"This was really hard on (Cassidy)," Northridge sports information director Barry Smith said. "His wife called him in Boulder about 4:30 in the morning, told him there had been an earthquake, and that she was trapped in their apart­ment. 
"He coached the game not knowing whether she was safe or not because nobody could 
see RECOVERY I page 11 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Writer 

AUBURN HILLS, Mich. Toward the end of the game, the giant scoreboard at the 
r Palace flashed "LOUDER". The 20,427 fans responded and cheered wildly. Since the crowd favored Michigan, the noise was in recognition of another victory. But Notre Dame supporters may have thought of it as ap­preciation for the performance of Louder, as in Greg, the Notre Dame goalie who kept the ex­plosive Wolverine offense off the scoreboard for more than 53 minutes. Despite Louder's brilliant ef­fort, the Irish dropped a 3-1 decision to No. 1 Michigan. The score is not indicative of the game, which included two empty net goals in the final minute. 
"It was a great effort all around," said Irish coach Ric Schafer. "It should have cul­minated in victory." 
Michigan sniper David Oliver disagreed. 
With 6:36 remaining in the game, and Michigan on a power play, the senior notched his 1 OOth career goal, beating Louder with a blast from the top of the left circle to put the Wolverines ahead 1-0. 
"We did a great job of penal­ty-killing," noted Schafer. "It was just a perfect shot in the left corner that no one was going to save." 
Notre Dame still had a hand­ful of quality chances to tie the game but Wolverine netminder Steve Shields, who holds the NCAA record for wins, was just as sensational as usual. He denied bid after bid, including shots by John Rushin and Da­vide DalGrande. 
Shields, along with Louder, was spectacular throughout, especially in the second period, when the Irish fired 24. Not one found the back of the net. 
"He's hard to get the puck by," stated Schafer matter-of­factly. "We think he's unortho­dox, but he is tough." 
At even strength, the Irish were just as tough. As talented and fast as the Michigan skaters were, Notre Dame's players were every bit as smart and hard-working. 
The Irish frustrated numer­ous Michigan rushes with pa­tient; strong-checking defense. In particular, Matt Osiecki, Garry Gruber, and Bryan Welch all played the body well. 
~hat they did let by, Louder was there to stop. 
"He just played a fantastic game," said Gruber. "It's a lot easier to play in front of some­one who you have a lot of confi­dence in. When they did get opportunities, he was there to make the save.'' 
Despite the team's efforts, the Irish were forced to pull 
see HOCKEY I page 12 


Inside SPORTS 
Women's Hoops 
Super Bowl XXVIII Saint Mary's Tootie Jones scored a career-high 22 points as 
Dallas does it again as 

The Belles basketball the Irish women moved 
Buffalo bobbles away a 
team drops its second into sole posession of fourth Super BowL straight game. 

first place in the MCC. see page 10 
see page 14 
see page 11 




