


Monday, September 5, 1994• Vol. XXVI No.6 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE 0Atv1E AND SAINT MARY'S 
Dining hall changes include menu, layout 
By JOSE BLANCO 
News Writer 
The beginning of the school year has brought changes to the Notre Dame Food Services, as both the South and North Dining Halls have undergone significant renovations and menu modifications. 
At South Dining Hall (SDH), major improvements have re­sulted in making a wider vari­ety of foods availible to stu­dents. In addition to the tradi­tional menu, specialty foods have been included, allowing students to enjoy several kinds of pastas, Mexican dishes, and homestyle cheese, pepperoni and vegetable pizza. A break­fast waffle bar and a gourmet coffee stand have also been added. 
In addition to an extended menu, North Dining Hall (NDH) has also experienced a series of renovations, including changing the layout of the dining hall to improve efficiency. A food court system has been adopted so that students can help them­selves to their favorite foods daily. NDH offers Mexican food at "Fiesta Grande" and Chinese food at the "Shanghai Trading Company." For those who are partial to Italian food, the Pas­taria and the Pizzeria have been continued. 
The "Grab n' Go" counters have also been expanded to of­fer a greater variety of foods in less time. Salads and an as­sortment of fruit juices are now available at each entrance to the SDH, and in a room set apart exclusively for Grab n' Go in NDH. 
The improvements at the din­ing halls have become a major topic of conversation among students, and while most stu­dents have responded favorably to the modifications, some have expressed their concern over lunchtime congestion. 
"Everytime I see the lines in North, I lose my appetite," said St. Edward's Hall junior Rafael Gonzalez. "It's really a hassle because so many people are so rushed for time during lunch." 
However, other students praised the wide variety of culi­nary options afforded by the renovations. 
"I really like the fact that they are offering healthier types of food," said Lewis Hall junior Laura Tuchsherer. "Still, I really miss the weekend brunches." 
The workability of the new system will take a few weeks to determine, said David Prentkowski, director of Notre Dame Foodservices. 
Prentkowski said that em­ployees seem pleased with the restructuring of the dining halls. He added that meetings were held in the spring and summer with the purpose of giving the employees the op­portunity to express their own ideas in regards to the pro­posed plans. 

However, several employees expressed dissatisfaction with the efficiency of the new sys­tem. "The longer lines and fewer exits are leading to a lot 


Graduate student discovered 
By LIZ FORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
The body of a Notre Dame graduate student was discov­ered Saturday evening by a hiker, according to St. Joseph County Police. 
The body of Alexandru 
Bumbacea, 29, a graduate stu­dent in mathematics, was iden­tified by police after being found in a wooded area around McErlain and George Avenue. 
Police said the body was dis­covered approximately 150 yards from McErlain and George Avenue by a 15-year-

The Observer/Nicky Betill 
Plotting his path 
Junior Jeremy Miller takes time out to shoot some pool and relieve some back-to-school blues in the Gorch Games Room at the LaFortune Student Center. 
old boy who was walking through the woods on his way home. 
According to an investigation by the St. Joseph County Special Crimes Unit and county police, the body had been in the woods for approximately seven to 10 days. A Notre Dame Credit Union ~ar«:!jssued to Bumbacea~ey to the Notre Dame math department were found on his body, police said. 
Police concluded through their investigation that Bumbacea had died of self-in­flicted injuries. Police said Bumbacea, who was from Romania, left a note written in Romanian indicating his inten­tions over a week ago and had been depressed recently. 
Notre Dame Professor Frederico Xavier of the math­ematics department described Bumbacea as a "very fine gen­tleman and an outstanding stu­dent." 
Xavier said that Bumbacea did very well on his graduate courses and had recently com­pleted a set of math exams. "He was a very good student. This is a sad thing," said Professor Julia Knight, director of graduate in mathematics. 
Bumbacea had only been at Notre Dame since September of 1993 and was studying differ­ential geometry, Xavier said. 
"This is a great loss, not only for me personally because I knew him, but because he was such a talented person," Xavier said. 

of congestion," said Cavanaugh Hall sophomore Amy Cassidy. "The middle and Pastaria sec­tions are very crowded, while the Chinese and Mexican sec­tions are much emptier." 
Prentkowski noted that major physical renovations are planned in the future for SDH. These renovations will enable it to accommodate both a food court system and the two planned dormitories on South Quad. 

Library responds to needs 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
The Hesburgh Memorial Li­brary implemented several significant changes in their services and collections this summer. 
One of the more notable changes is that security guards will no longer exam­ine backpacks when students exit the library. 
However, students must still hand over any library materi­als to the library monitors for inspection prior to leaving. 
Other visible changes include the remodeling of the second floor, where the northeast corner was made into a "quiet study area" for individual study in carrels. Over 150 of the individual study desks were moved into the section for student use. 
Another major change was the relocation of the graduate student study section from the seventh to the tenth floor. According to Miller, detex locks were installed to ensure privacy and quiet. Study tables were also moved into the areas near the computer laboratory so students would be able to study while waiting for a computer to become available. 
According to Miller. howev­er. many other serious changes may be on the way. An ad hoc committee on University libraries recom­mended that the formal University Committee on Libraries should add an undergraduate and graduate representative to its member­ship of senior University offi­cers and library administra­tors. 
The committee was formed under the direction of the Col­loquy for the Year 2000, the report was written by University President Fr. Edward Malloy in 1993 to the Board of Trustees. The board soon after adopted Fr. Malloy's recommendations. 
The ad hoc committee also urged that major funding in­creases be sought from all sources in order to increase the number of qualified library staff who help users find material. Miller said that other funding would be requested "to fill gaps in our collection right now." 
Miller also said that the ad hoc committee directed the li­brary administration to investigate a complete reno­vation of the Hesburgh Library. A separate task force created solely to analyze this issue submitted a report to the administration last summer, suggesting that an independent consultant be hired to determine the feasibility of such a large pro­ject and draft plans for the renovation. 
Responding to the new direction, the library adminis­tration intends to continue adapting and improving its collections and services to enhance Notre Dame overall. 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, September 5, 1994 
• Inside Column 

• World at a Glance 
Marketplace bomb kills ten, injures 26 in Armenia


A stroll down 

ARMENIA A bomb exploded Sunday in a market near Armenia's border with Georgia, killing 10 people and injuring 26, officials said. Two of the dead were citizens of nearby Azerbaijan, Armenia's rival, suggesting a political motive for the bombing, the 
Labor Day 
casualties of a 1 

ITAR-Tass news agency said. Officials said the 
six-year-old war



lane 

bomb exploded at about 1 p.m. in the village Bagratashen, about 60 miles north of the Armenian 
between Armenia 
Back in the days of my capital, Yerevan. The region is plagued by violence 

and Axerbaijan 
public school career, the 

linked to a six-year-old war between Armenia and Labor Day weekend was the 
Azerbaijan over the disputed enclave of Nagorno~ traditional end of summer. 
Karabakh. The explosion occurred within 30 miles 
marketplace near
of Azerbaijan. Last April, a bomb killed three peo­This long three day week­ple and injured more than two dozen aboard a pas­
Armenia's border. 
end stood as the last bas­senger train heading from Tbilisi, the Georgian cap­tion of freedom until par­ital, to Yerevan. Georgian officials suspected theent-teacher conferences train bombing was retribution for a subway bomb­and in-service days, which ing in the Azerbaijani capital the previous month. 

were deep into dark Azerbaijan blamed that bombing, which killed 14 

October. 

people, on Armenia. 
Since the end of summer was marked as such, it is only fitting that such a time brings back 

Barbara Bush publishes memoirs For Clinton, vacation proves relaxing
memories of grade school, hot lunch programs, 


and long, dazed hours in ancient school build­

WASHINGTON EDGARTOWN, Mass. 
ings. 

Loss of power and prestige are not 
The wind was chilly, the hour early and the first shot One memory involves the very first day of 
the only adjustments to life after the not a pretty sight. "Oh, I tore it left," President Clinton school. Upon returning to school for the fourth 
White House. There's also remember­said as he drove his golf ball astray. He winced and said: grade, I was amazed that I couldn't rmd my 
ing how to grocery shop and cook, and Come rescue us, will you? We barely know what we're name on the fourth grade teacher's list. With 
those are the kind of everyday doing." But less than two hours later, Clinton was leaping terror in my heart I quickly scanned the third moments that nil Barbara Bush's mem­from his golf cart and trading high fives with partner oirs. The book was scheduled for Vernon Jordan, a lobbyist and longtime Clinton friend.
grade lists -in case I was held back-but I was 

release Sept. 15 but already has Clinton played nine holes and scored a 39 -encouragingnot there either. All other alternatives were 
appeared in some bookstores. It's for a guy who wants to break 80 on 18 holes before heimpossible, I happened upon the only other con­stuffed with anecdotes and sprinkled with Mrs. Bush's turns 50, two years from now. From there, Clinton wentclusion. Todd School didn't want me anymore. 
diary entries that record her take on George Bush's cam­to Union Chapel, an interdenominational meeting place I began to wonder what my parents would say; paigns, his 12 years as president and vice president, and built in Oak Bluffs in 1870, especially for the island'stheir only son kicked out of grade school. I the couple's efforts to return to a more ordinary life in summer visitors. The Rev. Alden Besse, pastoral assis­began to wonder what the life of a garbage man 
Houston after leaving the White House. In "Barbara tant at Grace Episcopal Church in nearby Vineyardwould be like-the only job I could think of that 
Bush: A Memoir," Bush defends her husband at every Haven, delivered the guest sermon, stressing the theme would only require a third grade education. 
turn and writes bitterly about those who criticised him, of hope, as it is the name of Clinton's birthplace. He Sniffiing and sputtering, I was spotted by Ms. 
but she acknowledges that she disagreed with him on two opened with a prayer for the country, the president and Markem, who determined that I was to be in 
issues: she supports legal abortion and opposes sale of Congress "to lead us to the paths of justice and peace." her class until everything was settled. It turned 
assault weapons. Bush said she did her best to keep her After church, the Clinton caravan rolled into Vineyard opinions from the public while her husband was in office. Haven, where the president and first lady Hillaryout that she forgot to put my name on her list "I honestly felt, and still feel the elected person's opinion Rodham Clinton went to lunch at the Black Dog Tavern.
for fourth-graders. 

is the one the public has the right to know," Bush wrote. Other folks with reservations found themselves facing aWhat about all of those mandatory classes that But Bush predicts for Hillary Clinton the types of prob­police barricade and a shut door. But Secret Servicepersons of no talent had to attend-such as lems that she was careful to sidestep herself. Of Hillary agents politely helped to sort matters out, and soon themusic class? Although I have as much singing and Bill Clinton, Mrs. Clinton seems "much the stronger flow of diners was almost normal. The Clinton vacationtalent as Rosanne Barr, and a voice that crack­of the two," Bush wrote. "I am afraid that when prob­still has a few days to run. Clinton plans to interrupt it led way before any of us even heard of puberty, lems or controversy occur, and they will, the finger will Monday to fly to the Bath Iron Works in Bath, Maine, to it seemed that I was always nominated to step 
be pointed at Hillary. I am not saying this is right or mark Labor Day by celebrating a new contract under forward and sing louder. Those who say public 
wrong. It just occurs to me that the American people also which labor will participate with management in compa­performance kills stage fright never had to give 
are going through an adjustment," she said. ny decisions. public renditions of a studdery "Swing Low Sweet Chairot" in front of fifteen giggling fourth 
Sailor acquitted of charges Unser wins despite stomach pains 
grade girls. 

SAN DIEGO VANCOUVER
Art class, although a break from math and A military court acquitted a sailor of charges for asking Not even a severe bout of food poisoning could stop AIreading, never won me awards. I have enough a shipmate to break his leg so he could escape sexual ha­Unser Jr., who raced off to his third straight victory Sun­trouble with normal handwriting, that I don't rassment aboard the USS Constellation. Garrett Trance, day in the Vancouver Molson-Indy. The victory in theneed the additional trials of trying to draw a petty officer 3rd class, admitted persuading Airman chaotic 102-lap race on the 1.653-mile, 10-turn tempo­straight lines, much less calligraphy. So bad Wesley Newell to hit his leg with a steel pipe on Feb. 19. rary circuit was the eighth of the season for Unser, who was my penmanship that in nfth grade my Trance's leg broke on the third blow. Trance was a vic­missed Friday's practice and qualifying after stomach teacher tried convincing me that I was left 

tim of sexual harassment because shipmates mistakenly distress. The 32-year-old drove a great strategic race, handed and had been writing with the wrong 
believed he was homosexual, said Charles T. Burner, his using an early pit stop and an unusually high six full­hand all the time. 
lead attorney. The court martial panel acquitted Trance course caution flags, to wind up dominating the late Despite hardships, school back then also 
on Friday on charges of conspiracy, missing the move­stages of the event on the way to his eighth victory of the promised recess. Precious time of freedom, far 
ment of a ship and malingering. Newell, 21, was sen­season. "We're pretty sore inside, but winning makes away from teachers, checks on the board, and 
tenced to three months' confinement, a bad-conduct dis­you feel a lot better," Unser said after his 27th career charge and fined for the Trance case and another inci­victory. "We were just hanging in there and (teammultiplication tables-perfect for Watterson­dent. On the same day he.bNke. Trance's leg, Newell owner) Roger (Penske) sure did call the race perfect. Weesque kids such as I. 
shot Airman James Kinsey in the shoulder. Kinsey, 23, made an early stop and then the other stop came at justOver a span of several recesses, a friend of testified he asked Newell to shoot him after being refused the right time." His Ilmor-powered Penske car crossedmine and I won the Todd Elementary School medical treatment for more than a year for a painful ear the finish line 2.24 seconds ahead of 25-year-old pole­Super Bowl, with a schedule consisting of four problem. winner Robby Gordon. 
teams. In the rmal game, we, the Rams, defeat­
ed the Eagles with Timmy running around the 

• lm:liana Weather • National Weather
chin-up bars and me blocking Brad Serdan just seconds before the bell rang. The memories go on and on. All the little 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 5. 
taunts, jeers, and cooties. From Shane getting smacked in the face, and us thinking that he was going to bleed to death, to the presence of snow days every year. With all the hectic lives we have now, sometimes you just have to stop and smell the scented markers. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Today's Staff 
News David Diaz Kate Crisharn Heather Gibson 
FRONTS:
Vivian Gernbara Tara Grieshop 
..............-...A....L ~ 
Sports Lab Tech 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather. Inc. 
Matt Casey Scott Mendenhall 
Pressure 
H L
Joe Villinski Accent 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Viewpoint Larissa Herczeg 
Suzy Fry Graphics Production Chris Mullins 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. V18 Associated Press GraphicsNot C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 


Atlanta  93  74  Denver  92  54  New Orleans  93  72  
Baltimore  83  73  Houston  95  74  New York  75  58  
Boston  81  65  Los Angeles  88  68  Philadelphia  79  60  
Chicago  79  53  Miami  84  73  Phoenix  106  85  
Columbus  78  59  Minneapolis  74  51  St. Louis  77  63  

--~­

....-----------~----------------------­
Monday, September 5, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 


U.S., Cuba continue talks 
By LOUIS MEIXLER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
'The United States and Cuba began a third day of talks Sun­day on ways to halt the flood of Cuban refugees, but prospects for a quick accord appeared slim. 
Cuba has been holding out for talks on easing the crippling 
U.S. economic embargo against the communist island, which it says causes widespread hard­ship and is the fundamental cause of the exodus. 
The United States insists mi­gration is a separate issue and refuses to discuss lifting the 32­year-old embargo. ft says Cuba 


CLUB COLUMN 
September 20, 1993 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in room 206 Lafortune. 
1. 
ATTENTION CLUB LEADERS: Concession stand packets can now be picked up in the Student Activities Office, room 315 LaFortune, or in the Club Coordination Council office in room 206 LaFortune. 

2. 
FOOD SERVICE TRAINING will take place on September 6th and 7th starting at 4 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre. NOTE: All clubs and organizations who were allocated concession stands must attend a training session. For more information, contact the Club Coordination Council or Student Activities. 

3. 
MAILBOXES for all recognized clubs are located next to the Student Government Office. Club leaders be sure to check for mail fre­quently! 

4. 
SHENANIGANS: Notre Dame's only Singing and Dancing Ensemble will have auditions on September 12 and 13. Those interest­ed should sign-up for a time slot during Activities Night or at 214 LaFortune. For more information, stop by our booth at Activities Night or call Ricky at 4-1178. 

5. 
HUGS: Sign-ups for returning members will take place between 


5:30 and 9 p.m. on September 7th in the Center for Social Concerns. TB tests will be given in the Infirmary basement on Tuesday, September 13th between 7:30a.m. and 4 p.m .. New members please pick up an application at Activities Night. 

Aid. 
The UniversiiT_ Prow._am From Standard Federal Bank 
Get ano-annual-fee VISA" Classic Card and alow-cost Regular Checking Account including no per-check fees (and we even buy back your old checks*) with the University Program from Standard Federal. 
Use this financial aid to buy books, supplies, trips home and other essentials. Then obtain aPersonal Identification Number (PIN) for your University Program VISA Card. It will help you access your account, without transaction 
Helping You Along The Way."' 
Standard Federal Bank Savings/Financial Services 

©1994 Standard Federal Bank 
1404 E. Ireland 17330 State Rd. 23 in front of at Douglas Rd. Scottsdale Mall 219/277-0300 2191291-8483 
fees, through more than 200 Standard Federal Cash Machine ATMs and Standard Federal's TeleBanking services. You can also use your card at thousands of CIRRUS~ NetworkOne~ MoneyMover" and Magicline• ATM machines.1 
Call or visit Standard Federal Bank today for more information about how you can enjoy the financial aid of the University Program. 
•Ask for cktatls t Thett ts no fee for aVISA cash advanct However. theu: is amock:st fee for otht:r transacuons completed ~ an AIM tha1 • 1101 own<d ond opmttd by lwldam Foknl 
must implement democratic re­forms before the embargo can be eased. 
After a one-day break, the two sides met again at the U.S. mission Sunday. U.S. delegation spokesman David Johnson said the Americans were awaiting a Cuban response to written pro­posals delivered Friday. 
Cuban diplomats did not com­ment before the session. 
About 75 anti-Castro demon­strators gathered outside the mission, across the street from the United Nations. They chant­ed "Freedom for Cuba" and held signs urging President Clinton to take a hard line against Cuban President Fidel Castro. Security was tight and the crowd was peaceful. 
The United States wants to expand legal Cuban immigra­tion, perhaps to around 20,000, in exchange for Castro's promise to end the refugee ex­odus. Only about 2,700 Cubans are expected to get visas to immigrate to the United States this year -compared to the more than 30,000 who have taken to the sea in rickety rafts and boats, most in the past month. 
Reversing longstanding U.S. policy, Clinton last month stopped letting the Cubans into the United States. Instead, the Coast Guard is taking them to the U.S. Navy base at Guan­tanamo Bay, Cuba. 
Panama agreed officially Sunday to accept as many as 10,000 Cuban migrants to re­lieve overcrowding at Guan­tanamo. The refugees will be housed at a U.S. military camp outside Panama City. 
U.S.-sponsored Radio Marti stepped up warnings to Cuba in shortwave broadcasts Sunday of the high risk of drowning in the Straits of Florida, the 90­mile passage between Cuba and the Florida coast. 
"So many people have lost their lives at sea, drowning in the treacherous currents, risk­ing attack by sharks," the broadcast said. "It is a death sentence." 
The repeated messages also warned Cubans not to try to enter the Guantanamo base through Cuban-sown mine­fields, saying all efforts were being sought in the negotiations in New York to allow legal emi­gration. 
page 3 

Rubbin' it in by telephone 
Zahm Hall junior Ken Oliphant calls his friend at Northwestern to rub in Notre Dame's 15-42 victory over Northwestern at Soldier Field in Chicago on Sept. 3. 
NAACP demands rebel flag removal 
By ROBERT TANNER 
Associated Press 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
Hundreds of Confederate battle flags snapped in the breeze of this coastal resort Sunday, a fierce answer to an NAACP demand that the rebel banner be removed from the state Capitol. 
The flags of all sizes adorned cars and were waved by chil­dren and adults at a rally that drew about 400 people. 
"We've given them every­thing they wanted. Now they want our flag," William Carter, president of the state chapter of the Council of Conservative Citi-

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Weekly Illustrators Daily Cartoonist Weekly Political Cartoonist 
Interested persons should be able to work on a daily or weekly basis for the fall semister. For further information call Art Manager Garrett Gray at x1771. 
zens, told the cheering, all­white crowd. 
"If we can have a Martin Luther King Day, a black his­tory month, why can't we have the Confederate battle flag fly above the Statehouse?" Carter asked. 
Carter was the state cam­paign manager of former Ku Klux Klan member and presi­dential candidate David Duke. 
The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People said Saturday it would hold off imposing an economic boycott on the state to force the flag's removal, at least until the state Supreme Court rules on the issue. 
South Carolina is the only state to fly the rebel banner ­a blue X with white stars on a red background -above its Capitol. Georgia and Mississippi include the flag's design on their state flags. 
Defenders honor the flag as a tribute to Southern culture and history. Opponents say it is a blatant symbol of slavery and bigotry. 
"Every time I see that flag, it is an attack on my dignity," NAACP national Chairman William Gibson said Saturday at a Hilton Head march attend­ed by about 1,000 people, mostly blacks. 
More demonstrations are planned for other South Car­olina cities. 
Shenanigans 
Notre Dame's only Singing and Dancing Ensemble 
AUDITIONS: september 12 and 13 in 204 o'shag 
ALL interested should sign-up for a time-slot at Activities Night or at 214 Lafortune. For more information, stop by our booth during Activities Night or caLL Ricky 4,..11 78. 


52710 U.S. 31 Nonh 216 W Washington across from Nonh ' 2191234-7171 Village Mall 219/277-3922 
page4 
The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 5, 1994 

Pope blasts United Nations conference 
By EDITH LEDERER 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 

On the eve of the opening of the U.N. population confer­ence, a U.S. official said. Sunday that a compromise on the sensitive issues of abor­tion and birth control was 
' ' v e r y close." 
Pope John Paul II, meanwhile, capping one of the most heated cam­paigns of 


his 16-year Pope John leadership, Paulll blasted the gathering anew with an attack on the "dangerous shortcut" of reducing birth rates by any means. 
The pope's diplomatic and religious crusade against abortion and contraceptives, which has allied the Vatican with fundamentalist Muslim states, has captured head­lines. But supporters of a tough plan for slowing the world's population boom are fighting back. 
The world's current population of 5. 7 billion peo­ple is growing by more than 90 million a year. 
Timothy Wirth, a U.S. under-secretary of state and Washington's top official on population issues, told reporters that a "very promising" compromise was being worked out on the thorniest issues in the confer­ence's fmal document. 
Vice President AI Gore, arriving in Cairo, said the Clinton administration oppos­es language suggesting there is an international right to abortion. 
"We have continuously made it clear that we will insist on language that the subject of abortion is one that each individual nation should deal with," he said. 
During three preparatory conferences, delegates from 170 countries agreed on more 
r 
than 90 percent of the plan
f 
for controlling population, including empowering women and ensuring that girls get equal access to education. 
' Contentious issues still to be resolved include abortion, sex education, women's access to family planning advice, and their right to choose the size of their fami­lies. But Wirth said the European Union has come up with compromise language that should ease opposition. "I think we're very close to having language arrived at that will move us from the 92 percent threshold to close to a 100 percent threshold," he told a briefing. 
The head of the confer­ence, Dr. Nafis Sadik, said she was confident the controversy would be overcome. "In my mind I have no doubt there will be agreement on these outstanding issues," she told a news conference. 
The 113-page draft plan of action led four Muslim-major­ity nations -Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Lebanon and Iraq ­to pull out of the meeting, claiming it would encourage promiscuity and the break­down of the family. But other Muslim nations are attending. 
Islamic lawyers in Egypt filed suit to stop the confer­ence, arguing it runs counter to Islamic principles. But an Egyptian appeals court Sunday upheld the govern­ment's right to stage the meeting. 
Sunday's arrivals included a 10-member Iranian delega­tion that includes four women, and Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan. Two other Muslim women leaders, Tansu Ciller of Turkey and Khalida Zia of Bangladesh, backed out of the conference. 
Hojatoleslam Mohamed Ali Taskhiri, the Iranian delega­tion leader, urged Muslim nations to participate in order to defend Islamic values and oppose attempts to impose Western ideas "and export the problems of the material world to the Islamic world." 
Mrs. Bhutto also plans to act as an "assertive" spokesman for the Muslim world, according to special assistant Shahnaz W asir Ali. 
The Vatican, for its part, insists population problems can be alleviated by better distribution of global resources. 
"In the moment in which one moves courageously in that direction, it is necessary to resist the temptation to take a dangerous shortcut, the pointing of every effort toward the reduction, obtained in any which way. of the birth rate," the pope said in a televised speech from his summer palace in Castel Gandolfo, Italy. 
Wirth and other officials would not disclose details of the European Union's com­promise, but Wirth said it would put abortion in the framework of national laws. 
On other controversial is­sues, Wirth said the EU's compromise altered some language to deal with com­plaints that the wording "families and other unions" referred to homosexual mar­riages. 


Hartley·: Cease-fire to continue 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 
BELFAST 
A car bomb blew up outside the offices of the IRA's Sinn Fein political allies on Sunday. shattering glass, but failing to shake their resolve to keep peace moves alive. 
"This was an attack on the peace process, but we will not be intimidated by the loyalist death squads, nor will we be deflected from the peace pro­cess," said Sinn Fein city coun­cilor Tom Hartley, on the fourth day of the IRA's cease-fire. 
"This office will be open to­morrow morning," said Belfast Sinn Fein councilor Fra Mc­Cann. 
The blast. which destroyed ceilings in the empty headquar­ters, caused no injuries but sev­eral people were treated for shock. 
No one immediately claimed responsibility. 
McCann said a car drove up to the building and tvvo men were seen running away. 
Earlier Sunday, Sinn Fein indicated it would aecept a peaee settlement that stops short of its traditional goal of a united Ireland. 
Martin McGuinness, a senior Sinn Fein member and former Irish Republican Army chief of staff, said that unifieation of the independent south and British­ruled north was the best solu­tion. 
He added: "But if the Irish people decided on something else then we, as democrats, would have to accept that." 
Sinn Fein had given such as­surances before. But the com­ments of McGuinness, a former Irish Republican Army chief of staff, had added signifieance as the British government. weighs the soundness of the cease-fire. 
But Sinn Fein remains adamant that any Northern Ire­land settlement must include a British eommitment t.o with­draw its forces -a point un­derscored by demonstrations Sunday outside army bases in Catholic west Belfast and on border roads closed by British army engineers. Protesters painted IRA slogans on the bases and reopened one of the roads with bulldozers. 
Catholics and Protestants in congregations all over Northern Ireland included special prayers of peace in their Sun­day services. 
In middle-class south Belfast, worshippers from both sides of the religious divide gathered for joint peace services. 
But the Rev. Ian Paisley, leader of his own anti··Catholic evangelical church, warned his supporters that the IRA cease­fire and a British desire to woo Sinn Fein could mean "the de­struction of our faith and of our freedom." 
"We are told to accept this 
LAST CHANCE! 

FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1995-96 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7-7:00p.m. 131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 

AP 
green olive branch," Paisley, a member of the British and Eu­ropean parliaments, preached from the pulpit of his Martyrs' Memorial Free Presbyterian Church. "Then we are told they (the IRA) have no regrets for what they have done. Oh God, it is indeed an evil day." 
The Irish government is pushing ahead with plans to bring Sinn Fein into open de­bate quickly. Albert Reynolds, the Irish premier, confirmed he expects to have face-to-face talks with Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein leader, in Dublin this week. 
It would be the first such meeting between Irish and Sinn Fein heads since "the troubles" began 25 years ago, when Britain deployed troops to quell street violence between Catholics and Protestants. 
"Wednesday's cease-fire de­cision makes it clear they (Sinn Fein leaders) are totally in the constitutional proeess, that they want to find solutions by inclu­sive negotiations," Reynolds said. 
But British Prime Minister John Major emphasized Sunday that his government needed firmer assurance from Adams that the cease-fire was perma­nent. 
"We have not had an abso­lutely unambiguous signal that this is for good," Major said in a BBC television interview. 
Commanders of the two main Protestant-based paramilitary groups, meanwhile, met in secret this weekend to consider calling their own truce. 
In the 1990s the Ulster De­fense Association and Ulster Volunteer Force, called loyalist groups for their determination to maintain the British link, have killed more people than has the IRA. 


The Observer 
Any Saint Mary's Student interested in writing or taking photos for the Observer should attend a meeting on Tuesday, Sept. 6th at: 
8pm in Holy Cross Hall 8:30pm in LeMans Hall 9:00pm in McCandless Hal 9:30pm in Regina Hall 
Please contact Beth Regan at 631-4540 or 284-4449 ifyou have any questions. 

John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
lllWM.-..... 
Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD 
CLUB 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please a!lsk tor John O' ....le . 




Dftvll.rmg 

JT~~lJ.m 
The Men's and Women's Varsity Diving Teams will be holding open tryouts for all those interested. There will be an open 
meeting Monday, September 12, 4:00pm. 
Tryouts will be Tuesday, September 13th and Wednesday September 14th. 
If you are unable to make the meeting or have any questions please contact: 
Tim Welsh, Head Coach 631-7042 Randy Julian, Asst Coach 631-8455 

Monday, September 5, 1994 The Observer • NEWS pageS 
Nigerian unions suspend strike For01er Stasi chief to 
By FRANK AIGBOGUN 
Associated Press 
LAGOS, Nigeria 

With hundreds of frustrated oil workers already back at work, leaders of Nigeria's petroleum unions said Sunday they were ready to suspend their 2-month-old strike for democracy because of a lack of public support. 
"We have done our best," Arthur Onoviran, spokesman for one of the striking unions, told The Associated Press. "We knew when it started that it was up to all Nigerians to save the country and not the oil workers alone." 
Workers in the oil industry, which drives_ Nigeria's econ­omy, went on strike July 4, crippling this nation of 90 mil­lion people with fuel shortages. 
They demanded Gen. Sani Abacha's regime surrender power to Moshood K.O. Abiola, the man widely believed to have won the annulled 1993 presidential election that was to end a decade of military rule. 
Strikes, protests and riots have buffeted the nation since then, but none hit as hard as the oil workers. 
The suspension, to be dis­cussed by union leaders on Monday, looked to be a face­saving move. Hundreds ofstrik­ers, frustrated by lack of sup­port from other Nigerians, returned to work in the past week. 

"The military has been using a combination of bribery and intimidation to get our men back to work," Onoviran said, acknowledging the strike has virtually collapsed already. 
Abiola was arrested June 23 after he declared himself presi­dent to mark the anniversary of the election and is awaiting trial on treason charges. 
The respected Nigerian Medical Association said Abiola is critically ill in jail, suffering severe high blood pressure. 
Abacha's government has said only the courts can free Abiola. But officials have been unable to persuade a judge to hear his case. 
Abacha has taken an equally hard line with strikers and pro­democracy activists, banning the leadership of the oil unions and arresting dozens of critics and labor leaders. 
go to trial 
By GEORGE BOEHMER 
Associated Press 
FRANKFURT 
Once the second-most pow­erful official in East Germany, the notorious chief of the for­mer Stasi secret police goes on trial Monday for the shooting deaths of fellow countrymen at­tempting to flee to the West. 
Erich Mielke, 86, is the last of East Germany's top commu­nist officials to face trial for the shoot-to-kill orders that prose­cutors said claimed more than 300 East German lives during the Cold War. 
The indictment facing Mielke, however, was trimmed to six manslaughter counts to speed up the trial in Berlin state court. 
Mielke already is serving a six-year term in Berlin's Moabit prison for murdering two po­licemen in Berlin in 1931. He 


The Observer 
Advertising Department is Looking for an 

Advertising Account Executive 
Duties include account correspondence, office work, and creative campaigning. 

If interested please call Eric Lorge@ 631-6900 
was convicted in that case on Oct. 26, 1993. 
Mielke originally went on trial in November 1992 for the border deaths, along with for­mer East German leader Erich Honecker and four other com­munist officials. 
But Mielke, Honecker and former East German Premier Willi Stoph were dropped from the trial on grounds of poor health. Mielke, on trial in the policemen's murder case, was considered unable to face two trials at once. 
Honecker died in exile in Chile on May 29. Stoph, 80, is not expected to be recharged for health reasons. 
The other three defendants -former Defense Minister Heinz Kessler; his deputy, Fritz Strelitz; and the communist party chairman of East Ger­many's Suhl district, Hans Al­brecht, were convicted of manslaughter and received prison sentences of 4 1/2 to 7 1/2 years. 
All were members of East Germany's National Defense Council, which issued the shoot-to-kill orders to border troops to stop the flight of refugees to the West. 
Mielke's career as a hard­core communist began at the age of 23 when he shot two Berlin policemen and wounded a third outside the party's headquarters in August 1931. 
He fled to the Soviet Union to 
escape murder charges brought 
against him by Hitler's Nazi 
regime, which took power in 
1933. 

,================~======~~~~~~-------~ 

With Apple's special low student pricing, you can get aterrific deal on Macintosh; MacintoshN-the worlds fastest Mac~ And because Macintosh is still the easiest personal com­the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the afford­puter, you won't have to dig through complex manuals. Plus, with low student pricing, aMac able Macintosh Performa; which comes complete with lots of powerful software to help is as easy to afford as it is to use. All of which makes it the ideal time to Ap 1 .'­get you through college. You can also choose the portable Apple" PowerBook" or the Power discover the power all college students need. The power to be your bese 


p1e . 


Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 
©199-fAff/e Compu/er; Inc. All rights roserml. Aff/e, theAppk logo, Macinln!h, Macintosh Quodtrz, Porforma, PowerBooi and '7be}JfJtm to heyour best" are registered trademar!s ofAppk CompuJer; Inc. App/eDesign, Mac andPower Macink!sh are frrldemarts ofAffJe CompuJer; Inc. 




VIEWPOINT 
page 6 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... EliZ<J.beth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Ediror, Phoro Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.I @nd.edu Genera! Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 


killing. 'The act of self-defense can have a double effect: the preservation of one's own life; and the killing of the aggres­sor .... The one is intended, the other is not."' Quoting St. Thomas Aquinas, Summa Theologica, II, II, 64, 7. (No. 2263.) 
Note that the right to defend does not authorize the intentional killing of the aggressor. The intent must be to defend, 
Charles Rice 


rather than to kill. The principle of the double effect governs here, as quoted above in No. 2263 of the Catechism. A familiar application of that principle is with respect to operations to remove the cancerous womb of a pregnant woman. Such operations can be justified because the death of the child is an unintended effect of an operation independently jus­tified by the necessity of saving the mother's life. They do not involve the intentional killing of the child for the purpose of achieving another good-for example, the preservation of the moth­er's life. 
The only situations in which anyone ever has the right intentionally to kill anyone are the just war, capital punish­ment, and a justified rebellion (or what the Catechism calls "armed resistance to oppression by political authority." No. 2243. The just war and capital punish­ment are decreed by the state, which derives its authority from God. See Catechism, Nos. 2266-67, 2307-17. Armed rebellion involves an assumption by private persons of that authority of the state. No one can reasonably con­clude that such rebellion is justified in the United States today; therefore, the recent killings of abortionists cannot be justified on that or any other ground. 
Consider two cases. In the first, Able, an abortionist's assistant in the killing room suddenly has a change of heart moments before the abortion begins. He has a moral right, and probably even a duty, to use reasonable force to defend the child. It is unlikely, however, that lethal force could be justified there. In the second case, Baker, an opponent of abortion, shoots the abortionist in the parking lot as he is approaching the building to perform abortions a few min­utes later. 
One difference between the two cases is imminence. Able engages himself in the immediate defense of the child; he has no intent but to defend that child; he has no separate intent to harm or kill the abortionist. Baker, by contrast, is not in the heat of a physical struggle to save the child. He thinks, "I can get no closer than this. If I do not stop him he will go in there and murder babies. So I will shoot him in the head." His purpose or motive is to save children. But his intent in the act he performs that moment is to blow the abortionist's head 
'The recent attacks on 
abortionists are a symptom of an unraveling of the civil order ... ' 
off to achieve that purpose. Baker is performing an intrinsically evil act to achieve a good end. He assumes the au­thority of God, to decide when that per­son will face the final judgment of God. St. Thomas, quoting St. Augustine, said that '"A man who, without exercising public authority, kills an evildoer, shall be judged guilty of murder, and all the more, since he has dared to usurp a power which God has not given him."' Summa Theologica, II, II, Q.64, art.3. 
Some may argue that killing the baby 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
Monday, September 5, 1994 


Murder is murder, regardless of who and why 
A year ago, in the wake of the killing of abortionist David Gunn by Michael Griffin, this column presented reasons why such violence is unjustified in law and morality. Regrettably, the issue is with us again. We can maintain a prop­er perspective on it if we keep some basic principles in mind. 
In Roe v. Wade and later cases, the Supreme Court defmed the unborn child as a nonperson who may be killed at the discretion of others. The Court prevents people from interfering with the killing of the unborn child and even makes that killing a specially protected constitu­tional right. If American law regarded the unborn child as a person, as it should, there would be no legalized abortuaries; that child would be defend­ed by public authorities rather than by private individuals acting on their own. 
The law recognizes a privilege of pri­vate persons to use reasonable, and sometimes even lethal, force to defend others in some situations. However. even if that legal privilege were applied to the defense of the unborn child, it would not' authorize the killings of abor­tionists in Pensacola. To shoot an abor­tionist in the parking lot is not an immi­nently necessary defense of his intended victim against actual attack. It is a pri­vately decreed execution for the purpose of preventing the abortionist from later attacking the unborn child. The killing would also involve excessive force since it would not have been necessary to kill him to prevent him from performing the abortion. 
In moral terms, the new Catechism of the Catholic Church states: "The fifth commandment forbids direct and inten­tional killing as gravely sinful. The mur­derer and those who cooperate volun­tarily in murder commit a sin that cries out to heaven for vengeance." (No. 2268.) The Catechism does affirm a right of individuals to defend themselves and others: "The legitimate defense of persons and societies is not an exception to the prohibition against the murder of the innocent that constitutes intentional killer in the parking lot is defense of the child because that is as close as Baker could get. But if Baker may kill the abor­tionist when he is not actually perform­ing an abortion, why does he have to limit himself to the parking lot? Why can he not conclude that the only way he can get a clear shot at him is to shoot him on the golf course? Or at the video store? St Thomas speaks of the justified defender as one who "repels force." See Catechism, Para. 2264. The moral right to defend the child must be restricted to the immediate performance of the abor­tion. Even then it is practically incon­ceivable that lethal force would have to be used. 
The use of violence, whether lethal or non -lethal, against abortuaries and abortionists is unjustified also on several prudential grounds. It is not the most effective way to save the lives of unborn children threatened by abortion. It is counterproductive in that it distracts attention from the real, and spiritual, nature of the problem, and it diverts pro-life efforts away from more useful approaches. Moreover, it accelerates the disintegration of the civil order with pre­dictably harmful impact on the common good. Violence should be utterly rejected as a pro-life tactic. 
The recent attacks on abortionists are a symptom of an unraveling of the civil order which is directly traceable to Roe 
v. Wade and its sanction of the execu­tion of the innocent. In her address on February 3, 1994, to the National Prayer Breakfast in Washington, Mother Teresa said that "the greatest destroyer of peace today is abortion, because it is a war against the child, a direct killing of the innocent child, murder by the moth­er herself. And if we accept that a moth­er can kill even her own child, how can we tell other people not to kill one another?" 
Charles Rice is a professor of Law at the Notre Dame Law School. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Always do sober what you said you'd do drunk. That will teach you to keep your mouth shut." 
-Ernest Hemingway 




RUNNING AWAY 
• Ray Zellars and the Irish running backs had an unsuccessful debut 
against the Wildcats. 
-page 2 




Powlus passes first test 
Much-anticipated 
debut even better 
than expected 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Spons Editor 
CHICAGO 
Ron Powlus' first pass was a wobbling spi­ral, a tad underthrown, but for Notre Dame's intentions, right on target. It went 29-yards to flanker Mike Miller-not a touchdown, but not incomplete. 
At the moment, it was glorious gratification for Irish fans who had waited long, too long, for the heralded quarterback's debut. 
But after the game, that first toss looked more like a mediocre opening act. Like Spinal Tap opening for the Rolling Stones. But, wow, what an encore. 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz showcased his new toy on the Irish's first offensive play of the game, wasting no time showing the 66,946 fans at Soldier Field that Powlus' debut would break the mold, and with it Northwestern, in the form of a 42-15 win for Notre Dame. 
Powlus' first pass was emblematic of his first game at the helm of the Irish offense. Not perfect but close, and if your a Notre Dame fan, so promising that a dismal perfor­mance by the running game reads as only a minor inconvenience. 
see IRISH I page 2 
• JOCK STRIP 


Which way to the Downtown Athletic Club? 
CHICAGO 
T
o offer him the Reisman Trophy today would be a 
bit of hyperbole. He's at least six days from securing college 
gious prize. Jason Kelly Notre Dame quarter-Associate Sports
Editor
back Ron Powlus revealed his rumored skills to rave reviews Saturday against Northwestern. 
All the expectations? Exceeded. All the questions? Answered. An encore this week against Michigan 
would thrust him into Reisman contention. Familiar territory for Irish quarterbacks, but not normal for a neophyte. In fact, there seems to be nothing nor­mal about Powlus. 
Normal is not 18-of-24 passing for 291 yards and a school record-tying four touchdown strikes. 
One game into his career he shares that mark with Steve Beurelien, Daryle 
see KELLY I page 3 


Wide receiver Derrick Mayes leaps over a defender after making a reception in the second quarter. 



Monday, September 5, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA 

Where, oh where did the running game go? 
Running backs, offensive linemen in need ofan overhaul 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
CHICAGO 
Lee Becton lamented the woes of Notre Dame's running game, normally dominant, but little more than a distrac­tion in Saturday's season opener against Northwestern. 
The featured Irish back last season, Becton began the 1994 campaign with an anemic 16 yard performance on 10 carries, snapping his seven game streak of rushing for 100 yards or more. 
"I can't do everything," he said. "It 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
The much anticipated debut of the sophomore quarterback, which came a year late due to a twice broken collarbone, went as only Powlus, Lou Holtz and a man named Heisman could have designed. 
Powlus now has this on his resume: 18-24, 291 yards, four touchdowns. They are num­bers that would not only leave a Big Six firm drooling, but as it was on this day, the Big Ten as well. 
"He's already won the Heisman," Northwestern coach Gary Barnett said with a high degree of sarcasm. "It's just a matter of how many more he's going to get." 
It began with Miller's tidy grab on a slightly underthrown toss in the first quarter, and then flourished during a ten minute stretch near the end of the half, when Powlus collect­ed the first three touchdown passes of his career-a num­ber that 1993 starter Kevin McDougal didn't reach until his fifth game. 
"(Powlus) missed a few checks, but his decision pro­cess was very, very good," Holtz said. "You can't beat a team just throwing, but if you were to try, Ron Powlus would be the one you would want to try with." 
Powlus' first scoring pass was arguably his finest. A nine yard strike to Derrick Mayes, put where only the Notre Dame split end could get it and thrown in the face of a charg­ing Northwestern linebacker. 
Two plays earlier, Powlus connected on a 42-yard com­pletion to Miller, a pass he shook his head at because it was slightly underthrown. 
Northwestern responded with a 22-yard field goal by Sam Valenzisi, following a trend of anticlimactic Wildcat drives. Despite holding the ball for nearly 21 minutes in the first half, 116 yards from run­ning back Dennis Lundy and domination by the Wildcat of­fensive front, Valenzisi's boot was the only Northwestern score in the opening two quar­ters. 
The 6-foot-4, 218-pound Powlus had no trouble finding the endzone. The sophomore hadn't thrown a pass in live competition since leading Berwick (Pa.) High to the Pennsylvania state champi­onship in 1992. But some­
where along  the  line  he  
learned  the  two  minute  
offense.  

In the final 1:30 of the half he hit Miller with a 46-yard touchdown bomb (no head­shaking on this one), and then fullback Ray Zellars from the two-yard line with :09 showing on the clock, a drive set up by Shawn Wooden's interception. 
Powlus finished the half 10­13 for 186 yards. They were numbers few could have ex­pected, particularly with Holtz's emphasis on the run­ning game and a stable of tal­ented backs which including preseason All-American Lee Becton. 
But it was the running at­tack's ineffectiveness which may have forced Powlus' arm. Notre Dame rushed for only 59 yards in the first half and only 161 for the game. Becton failed to gain 100 yards, end-takes ten other guys for me to be suc­cessful. But it doesn't matter. As long as the team wins, that's what's important." 
Sophomore fullback Marc Edwards led the Irish with 52 yards on six carries, but the 161 yard team total had head coach Lou Holtz running scared. 
"My worst fears were realized," he said. "We can't run the ball. We can't run the ball at all." 
The problems began up front, with an inexperienced offensive line. 
The green group kept the Wildcats' pass rushers away from quarterback Ron Powlus, but they couldn't open holes for the running backs. 
"Credit Northwestern. They won the battle up front on both sides of the ball," Holtz said. "I didn't think they could shut down our running game as well as they did last year, but they did. That's very, very disappointing." 
Northwestern stacked the lineat times to stifle the Irish on the ground. 
That cleared the air for Notre Dame, and Powlus took advantage, turning in one of the best Irish passing perfor­mances in recent years. 
"They played us with eight and nine men up front, make no mistake about it. They jammed it up there," Holtz said. "But we've been able to run the football in the past even when they do that, but we could not do it." 
A one-dimensional offense won't be as successful against Michigan as it was against the much-weaker Wildcats. 
The Irish need a potent ground game to keep the Wolverines off-balance. But Holtz, ever the lamenter, doesn't know if the Irish can resurrect the rush. "I don't know if we can get the run­ning game going," he said. "I know the 
ing a seven game streak of hit­ting the century mark, dating back to the Pitt game last sea­son. 
"We have a lot of work to do before next week against Michigan," Becton said. "It is nothing in particular just working harder in all areas." 
Notre Dame's offensive line never gave the running game a chance, but seemed to play in­spired when Powlus dropped back to pass. He was sa~;ked once late in the second half, but took only a pair of shots that would constitute a rush by Northwestern. 
With Powlus hurling, Notre Dame upped the lead to 28-3 on a two-yard jaunt by Becton. The key play of the drive was a shoestring catch by Zellars which resulted in a 21-yard gain to the Wildcat seven. 
Powlus put an exclamation on the day with a 36-yard strike to Mayes that put the score at 35-3. It was a circus catch by the Irish wideout., who mugged Wildcat defender Rodney Ray but saw nothing but armpits from the officials. 
"Not everything was per­fect," Powlus said, "but years from now I'll feel good about my first start." 
He can also look back and say he has a slice of history. Powlus' four touchdown passes tied a Notre Dame record for most in a game, shared with Angelo Bertelli, Steve Beuerlein and Daryle Lamonica. 
Despite the catches and the touchdowns Holtz saw room for improvement and also heeded a bit of a warning: "One game doesn't make a career." 
No, but this is a good start. 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Sophomore Robert Farmer had few carries as Lou Holtz turned to the passing game. 
type of team we'd like to be and we aren't that type. We've just got to be able to run the football." 
It may simply boil down to desire. 
"When you can pass block but not block for the run, it just means you have to be tougher," center Mark Zataveski said. "We have to get tougher fast." 
Or Notre Dame may become, much to 
• GRADED POSITION ANALYSIS 
Quarterbacks-A A legenda'Y firs\ per1ormance turned in by Ron Powlus, who threw lour touchdowns and no interceptions. Tom Krug led an efficient scoring drive at the end of the game. 
Running Backs-C Noire Dame could muster up only 161 rushing yards on Saturday, including a measly 16 yards from senior captain Lee Becton. Sophomore Marc Edwards was the team rushing leader with 52 yards. which is no\ even close to the production \he running backs had last year. 
Receivers-A Derrick Mayes and Mike Miller combined for three touchdowns. while Charlie Stafford added a fourth \ale in the game. Spectacular catches helped make Ron Powlus' first appearance a memorable one. 
Offensive Llne--C Though Powlus was only sacked one time. the line could not open holes to gellhe running game going. The Northwestern defense controlled the line of scrimmage and made many plays in the Irish backfield. 
Defensive Llne--C· Only one tackle for a loss and no sacks were recorded by the defensive line. Northwestern's Dennis Lundy carried the ball 27 limes for 138 yards. much of which came right up the middle. Offsides penalties made the frontline look foolish and confused. 
A prel\y non-descript performance from Goheen, Sample, and Wynn. The evening was full of mistackles and blitzes that were stilled by the Northwestern offensive line. 
Secondary-8+ The Wildcats had some big pass plays, but the play of the seconda'Y was solid on the whole. Bobby Taylor played a magnificent game, recording an interception and another pick on a two-point conversion play. 
Special Teams-C-Kickoffs were short. coverage was poor. and penalties hurt the flow of the game for the Irish. The only brighl spot was Stefan Schroffner's extra point altempts~ll good. 
Coachlng-B Mostly out of necessity because of \he struggling running game, Holtz loosened his normally conservative game plan. allowing Powlus to shine in his collegiate debut. 
Overall G.P.A.-2.67 No\ a terrible showing lor the opening game. as il was enough to beat \he lowly Wildcats. However. drastic improvements will have to be made on both the offensive and defensive lines in order to give the Irish a fighting chance against Michigan. 
-MIKE NORBUT 
• SCORING SUMMARY 
FIRST QUARTER Notre Dame 0, Northwestern 0 
SECOND QUARTER 
Notre Dame 7, Northwestern 0 
(8 plays, 82 yards, 2:46) 
9:15 -Quarterback Bon Powlus hit Derrick Mayes on a nine-yard scoring strike. Key Play: Powlus connected with wideout Mike Miller for 42 yards to put the ball at the Wildcat nine-yard line. (PAT Stefon Schroffner) Notre Dame 7, Northwestern 3 (13 plays, 62 yards, 6:55) 
2:20 -Sam Valenzisi connected on a 22-yard field goal. Key Play: Dennis Lundy slipped on third and goal at Notre Dame's four-yard line. Notre Dame 14, Northwestern 3 4 plays, 70 yards, 1 :08 
1: 12 -Powlus found Miller 46-yards down­field, in the heart of the endzone. Key Play: Scoring play, duh. (PAT Schroffner) Notre Dame 21, Northwestern 3 (5 plays, 58 yards, :48) :09 -This sound familiar? Powlus two yard scoring pass to Bay Zellars. Key Play: Powlus to Derrick Mayes for 20 yards. (PAT Schroffner) 
HALF Notre Dame 21, Northwestern 3 
Holtz's dismay, a team that relies on the pass. Though he gushes about Powlus' skill, he wants his team to live and die on the ground. 
"We cannot be a good football team if we don't get more physical," Holtz said. "We couldn't even make a half-yard when we needed it. That's just unlike Notre Dame." 
THIRD QUARTER Notre Dame 28, Northwestern 3 (11 plays, 65 yards, 5:42) 
9:18 -Lee Becton scored on a 2-yard run. Key Play: Zellars scampered 21 yards on a screen pass from Powlus. (PAT Schroffner) Notre Dame 35, Northwestern 3 (8 plays, 77 yards, 2:59) 
4:55 -Mayes made a circus catch in the cor­ner of the endzone for a 36-yard scoring grab. Key Play: The referees not seeing Mayes pull the Wildcat cornerback to the ground before making the catch. (PAT Schroffner) 
FOURTH QUARTER Notre Dame 35, Northwestern 9 (11 plays, 73 yards, 4:38) 
6:03 -Dennis Lundy rambles in from five yards out. Key Play: Pass interference call against Shawn Wooden. (Conversion failed) Notre Dame 42, Northwestern 9 (9 plays, 55 yards, 4:1 0) 
1
:42 -Charles Stafford catches a 7 -yard pass from Tom Krug. Key Play: none. (PAT Schroffner) Notre Dame 42, Northwestern 15 (9 plays, 55 yards, 4:10) 

1
:42 -Tim Hughes scampered in from nine yards out. Key Play: A 56-yard kickoff return by Mike Senters. (Conversion failed) 



page 3 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Monday, September 5, 1994 

No domination for Davie's new-look defense ­
Penalties and poor run defense diminish individual performances 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Associate Sports Editor 
He came in to Notre Dame this past spring planning to put his stamp of aggression on the defense, but all defen­sive coordinator Bob Davie could do was stamp his foot in frustration. 
Frustration for the mistackles, frustra­tion for the penalties, frustration for the mental mistakes. 
Granted, the Irish allowed only 15 Northwestern points, twelve of which 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

came in the final quarter, but the score­Defensive lineman Germaine Holden chas­board cannot clearly justify how well the es a loose ball in the first half Saturday.
Wildcat offense handled the aggressive Notre Dame defense. a Wildcat drive. He also had another
"Northwestern won the battle up interception on a Northwestern two­
front," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "They controlled the line of scrimmage point conversion play, which he almost converted into two points the other way. 
and were able to run the football." "My play in the games is much like
The Wildcats ran right through the practice," he continued. "I work against 
Notre Dame front seven, piling up 166 players like Derrick Mayes and Mike
yards on the ground, compared to 161 Miller every day, which helps me a lot."
for the Irish. Shawn Wooden and Travis Davis also
"I was happy with the way we were recorded interceptions, and defensiveable to run the ball," Northwestern head end Brian Hamilton recovered a fumble.
coach Gary Barnett said. "We wanted to The four turnovers were a key to keep­
establish the run this year, and it looks ing Northwestern out of the end zone for
like we're moving in that direction." 
three quarters. 

Dennis Lundy carried much of the load Regardless of the turnovers or the low for the Wildcats, piling up 138 yards on point total allowed, Davie or the Notre27 attempts and scoring a touchdown. 
the Irish defensive front around all back Bobby Taylor said. "But then we 
Dame defense cannot be pleased withMuch of his success was due to mistack­night, and quarterbacks Tim Hughes started watching the ball and stopped the total defensive performance, espe­ling and over-aggressive pursuit on the and Steve Schnur kept them off balance listening to the quarterback." 

cially in preparation for Michigan. 

part of the Irish, which set up cutbacks 
with a tricky cadence, causing four off­Taylor was a bright spot in an other­
"Northwestern gave us a lot of prob­for the senior tailback. sides penalties in the first half. wise lackluster Irish defensive perfor­lems," Taylor said. "We need to come"I felt like I could run all night," Lundy 

"They knew we'd be blitzing and that mance. The junior recorded three tack­
out on a higher level next time." 

said. "I credit the line, though. They we'd be aggressive, so they took advan­les and recorded one official intercep­If they don't, the Wolverine offensedid a great job run blocking." 
tage of that with the cadence," corner-tion, which he ran back 38 yards to kill 
may stamp them-into the ground. 

Northwestern's offensive line pushed 


PREY· 

TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 
1. Nebraska (23) 1·0·0 1465 2 2. Florida (15) 1·0·0 1462 1 
3. Notre Dame (1 0) 1·0·0 1413 3 4. Florida St. (8) 1·0·0 1388 4 5. Miami (1) 1·0·0 1229 6 6. Michigan (1) 1·0·0 1205 5 7. Colorado 1·0-0 1140 8 8. Penn St. (1) 1-0-0 1112 9 9. Arizona (2) 1·0·0 1053 7 10. Wisconsin 0·0·0 968 10 11. Alabama (1) 1·0·0 962 11 12. Auburn 1·0·0 878 12 13. UCLA 1·0·0 846 14 14. Southern Cal 1·0·0 702 17 15. Oklahoma 1·0·0 594 16 16. Texas A&M 1-0-0 593 15 17. North Carolina 1-0·0 512 18 18. Ohio State 1·0·0 497 20 19. Tennessee 0·1·0 482 13 20.Texas 1-0·0 426 19 21. Virginia Tech 1·0·0 352 21 22.Ciemson 1-0·0 183 24 23.Georgia 1·0·0 115 24. Stanford 0-0-0 111 25 25. Washington 0·1·0 92 23 
• STATISTICS 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Ron Powlus tied a Notre Dame record with his four touchdown passes. 
Notre Dame 0 21 14 7--42 Northwestern 0 -3 0 12-15 A--66,946. 
ND NU First downs 24 24 Rushes-yards 41-161 36-166 Passing 298 184 Return Yards 41 162 Comp-Att-lnt 19-25-0 19-33-3 Punts 3-41 3-34 Fumbles-Lost 1-0 4-1 Pen.-Yards 12-63 5-35 Time of Poss. 28:42 31:18 
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS RUSHING-Notre Dame: Edwards 6-52, Kinder 6-30, Zellars 5-22, Blunt 3-18, Becton 10-16, Miller 1­14, Farmer 5-11, Klusas 1-3, Sollman 2-1, Powlus 2-(minus 6). Northwestern: Lundy 27-138, Autry 2-12, Hughes 5-10, Burton 1-6, Lilly 1-0. PASSING-Notre Dame: Powlus 18-24-0-291, Krug 1-1-0-7. Northwestern: Hughes 12-19-2-99, Schnur 7-14-1-85 RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Miller 7-142, Mayes 6-95, Mosley 2-24, Zellars 2-23, Stafford 1-7, McBride 1-7. Northwestern: Senters 4-59, 
Lundy 4-28, Musso 3-25, Gamble 2­
18, Graham 2-12, Morris 2-7, Winship 1-19, Beazley 1-16. 

Kelly 
continued from page 1 
Lamonica and Notre Dame's first Heisman Trophy winner, Angelo Bertelli. It's a record that none of the trio accomplished in their first sea­son, let alone their first game. 
"I wasn't aware (of the record)," Powlus said, almost yawning at his own accomplishment. "That's nice." 
And definitely not normal. 
When Lou Holtz allows a quarterback to throw on two consecutive plays from the two-yard line, it's a special spectacle. 
Kevin McDougal threw just eight passes in the entire game against Northwestern in 1993. It wasn't until the seventh game of the season that he threw his fourth touchdown pass. 
And he led the Irish to the brink of a national championship. 
One Chicago scribe summarized Powlus' immaculate inauguration while the media masses awaited the quarterback's words of wisdom. 
"Powlus won't be coming in for interviews," the writer said. "He's out on Lake Michigan taking a walk." 
That's what Saturday's game was all about­getting his feet wet. But he dove in head first on his initial play. a 29-yard toss to Mike Miller through the syrupy sky at Soldier Field that immediately solidified his superstar status. 
Powlus spread the praise. He realized that­though his numbers were remarkable-he was also the beneficiary of several sterling snares by Miller and Derrick Mayes. 
He even credited the Irish defense "for giving (the offense) the opportunity to be on the field." But it was Powlus who commanded the most attention. And the most appreciation. 
With unusual composure, he surveyed Northwestern's defense, deftly directing passes to where only his receivers could reach them. 
He dodged pass rushers and threaded needles like Betsy Ross. The heir to Notre Dame's legacy assumed his throne in majestic fashion. 
"He's everything he's cracked up to be," Wildcat coach Gary Barnett said, adding with a twinge of sarcasm, "He's already won the Heisman." 
Not yet. 

.------------------­
-
-~ 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 4 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek Irish cornerback Shawn Wooden pulls down Wildcat receiver Dave Beazley. 




Notre Dame 42 Northwestern 15 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
Soldier Field, Chicago 

Tailback Lee Becton knew what it felt like to have a defender on his back. He finished with 
September 3, 1994

just 16 yards rushing on 1 0 carries. 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall The Observer/Kyle Kusek Northwestern running back Dennis Lundy tries to elude Notre Dame defensive back Brian Magee. Bobby Taylor flashes an intimidating glance toward the Northwestern sidelines. 




ACCENT 
Monday, September 5, 1994 
Land of Milk, Honey, and Chiclets 
In the spirit of Star Wars, this too is a tril­ogy. 
Memorial Day, 1994-school is out. The sun is beating down on my furrowed brow. In the distance, a meadowlark feeds,_. II her chicks. On my Kris Kazlauskas porch, my cat, Pig, AccentColumnist playfully nibbles the remains of a dead cricket. I stand with cruise orders in hand, looking to the sea-NROTC calls me. The wind blows gently, and I think I hear a voice-YES! It is Enya. She is singing my name. Kriiiisss, yoooohh mussst go onnnnn kr­rroooozzzz (spelled phonetically). And so I go. 


I boarded the plane for San Diego, knowing that due to the nature of NROTC activities, some of us would not be returning home. I wished my mother well, wrote a will on a cocktail napkin, and never looked back. 
With the exception of extraordinarily good peanuts, the flight was uneventful. As I waited for my ride to my ship at a Navy abode by the airport, I spied a scrumptious banana nut roll, threw cau­tion to the wind, and indulged. The excitement of getting to the ship, which was destined for Hong Kong, was reach­ing meltdown proportions. I would have exploded had it not been for a friendly person who let me listen to "Neutron Dance" on his walkman. The van finally came to get me, and I was given a seda­tive. 
I reached my ship, and stared at her in bewilderment. She was gorgeous. An amphibious vessel by trade, she housed a working crew of about 400, and her name was USS Cleveland. I called her mother, and she rocked me to sleep at night. 
Since it was only May 30th, and the "Steamin' Cleve" didn't leave until June 9th, the natural alternative was to min­gle with the natives. I had met up with several other midshipmen on this sea­worthy vessel, including a jaunty, little monkey named Scott from Miami of Ohio. Traveling in a pack, our first field trip was to a fast food restaurant called Del Taco. Now, I'm no marketing major, but a monstrous sign that reads, "Get Your Food in 60 Seconds or it's Free!" is typically not a selling point. Despite the warning, I ventured in, and was bold enough to try the Del Taco sauce, known simply as "Del Scorcho." The employees were amazed as I made a mockery of this sauce, described as "BEYOND HOT!" Yet, this was a mere prelude to our jour­ney south. 
I had been their once before, but my 
return to the waste land of septic sys­
tems and ceramic Spuds Mackenzies 
was truly remarkable. Every city is fa­
mous for something, and Tijuana is no 
exception. To my surprise, I quickly 
learned that T.J. is the Chiclet capital of 
the world. Yes, those little squares of 
candy-coated gum that I enjoyed as a 
child came from this place. Like little 
pixies, children flitted about, tugging at 
my shirt, shouting, "Chick-lay, chick­
lay!" Before I knew it, I had spent $20 
on this chewy ambrosia. Yet, while I was 
happily munching gum, a few others had 
decided to try some authentic tacos. 
Much to their dismay, these kids had no 
clue that they were eating Mexico's 
answer to Metamucil. Alas, live and 
learn. 
The rest of the week was spent at 
Mission Beach. I boogie boarded like a 
mad man, riding the smaller waves with 
the ten-year-olds, and acting like a local. 
Taking the bus back to the ship, I met a 
lady who had just got out of prison after 
serving a sentence for narcotics traffick­
ing and possession of a sawed-off shot­
gun. I quickly added her to my 
Christmas card list, and thanked the 
world of public transportation for a new 
friend. That night, I slept well, and by 
morning, we were steamin' towards 
Hong Kong. Stay tuned for part 2. 


By PATTI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

"This particular play has not been produced at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's in a very long time," according to Rev. David Garrick, CSC, Assistant Professor, Communication and Theater. Father Garrick is directing Waiting for Godot, Samuel Beckett's 1953 production. 
"It is one of the key plays of the twen­tieth century. One cannot fully under­stand modern theater without seeing this production," he said. Beckett's play is a mix of existentialism, Freudian psychology, Christian myth, and French classical comedy. It pon­ders the meaning of life through puns and linguistic tricks. 
Auditions proper were Wednesday and Thursday. Only five roles were open to the 32 men who auditioned for them. These students read from scripts and they were invited to do some improvising with movement and facial gestures, said Garrick. 
The director is responsible for assigning parts, according to Garrick. After making and studying brief notes during auditions, 18 men were called back to auditions on Friday. 
''I'm expecting that this will be an enjoyable production. This is not going to be a 'heavy' play. Our production is a tragic comedy, not just a tragedy. Our aim is to maintain a balance be­tween the tragedy and the comedy. The performance will not be a tearful one, but is will have humorous aspects," said Garrick. 
Since the five roles were designed specifically for men, many of the tech­nical jobs involved in the production are being done by women, according to Garrick. A number of students, both men and women, will help construct the set. The set for this play was designed by senior Rachel Prouty and the lighting was designed by senior Michael Kersey. 
Cavanaugh Hall senior Stacey Stewart is the stage manager for the production. She is assisted by Badin Hall junior Kay Zolkowski and Sue Mignanelli. 
"As stage manager, it is my responsi­bility to run production meetings with designers, directors, and producers. We must also keep track of stage move­ments. It's an all encompassing job that involves a lot of running around," Stewart said. 
Stage managers devote at least five hours per day to the production, including rehearsal time, she said. 
Rehearsals usually run from 7 p.m.­11 p.m.. The closer we get to the actu­·.al production, the longer we spend practicing, said Stewart. 
"The excitement lies not only in the final production, but in the whole jour­ney involved in making that produc­tion," said Carroll Hall senior Francis Kelly. 
The most rewarding part of being in a production is meeting new people. It is interesting to work with my peers during rehearsal sessions, Kelly said. 
Kelly, who previously had a role in You Can't Take It With You and Macbeth, spends much of his time in Washington Hall. "As a theater major, the production in which I am taking part is my work. I consider the time commitment worthwhile and enjoy­able." 
Kelly plays the role of Estragon in this production. Other cast members of Waiting for Godot include: Josh Hartman as Vladimir, Jerry Lavin as Pozzo, Scott Paradine as Lucky, and Chris Dobranski as Boy. 
The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 5, 1994 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 

Classifieds Dearlline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
I I SENIORS I ! I 

ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEW SIGN-UP TRAINING SESSION TONIGHT! 
6:30P.M. HAYES-HEALY AUDITORIUM 
SPONSORED BY CAREER & PLACEMENT SERVICES. PRESENTED BY PAUL REYNOLDS. 
I I I SENIORS I I I 
USED TEXTS CHEAP!!II Buy & sell used books at the only hip place in town 1 0-6M-S/9-3Sun PANDORA'S BOOKS NO ave & Howard St 233-2342 
ILOST & FOUND I 
FOUND: 2 keys on a red "Brine" clothe string outside DeBartolo 101on 8-30-94. Call631-7970 to claim. 
FOUND: Camping for tickets, a key ring with three keys nn 421. call Claude! at 3719 
WANTED 

LOOKING FOR MUSICIANS TO FORM ROCK/BLUES BAND. CALL PETE 233-5130. 
MORE FUN THAN A JOB OUGHT 
TOBE! 
JOIN THE TEAM OF THE 
BUSIEST RESTAURANT IN 
MICHIANA! FULL-TIME AND 
PART-TIME, AM/PM SPOTS 
OPEN FOR: 
• 
LINE COOKS •SERVERS 

•PREP 
COOKS 

• 
BARTENDERS 

• 
DISHWASHERS 


TOP PAY AND GREAT BENEFITS 
INCLUDING FLEXIBLE HOURS. IF 
YOU'RE A WINNER. . .WHAT ARE 
YOU WAITING FOR. APPLY IN 
PERSON. EVERYONE LOOKS 
FORWARD TO 
FRIDAY'S 
4730 N. GRAPE ROAD 
MISHAWAKA 
EEO 
ARE YOU READY FOR A HEAV­
ENLY EXPERIENCE? 
BECOME PART OF AN INTER­
ESTING, CHALLENGING RETAIL 
OPERATION. PREVIOUS FOOD 
SERVICE EXPERIENCE HELP­
FUL. IMMEDIATE OPENING. 
HOURS 1:30-6:30 MONDAY THRU 
FRIDAY AND EVERY OTHER 
SATURDAY 8:30-2:00. 
APPLY IN PERSON AT HEAVEN­
LY HAM, 2307 EDISON BETWEEN 
8:30-1 0:00 OR 
2:00-5:00. 
BABYSITTER NEEDED AT LEAST 2 MORNINGS A WEEK, SEPT. OCT. ONLY. WILL WORK AROUND CLASS SCHEDULE. 2 CHILDREN AGES 3 & 1. MUST HAVE TRANSPORTATION. 272-2984. 
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! SELL 8 TRIPS & GO FREE! BEST TRIPS & PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT RESUME EXPERIENCE! 1-800. 678-6386! 
ANYONE NEEDING TO LIVE OFF­CAMPUS FOR THE 1ST SEMES­TER AND IS BRAVE ENOUGH TO LIVE AT LAFAYETTE CALL 233­5130. 
PART TIME WORK AVAILABLE 
TAKING PHYSICAL INVENTO­
RIES. WORK AROUND YOUR 
SCHEDULE. DAYS AND/OR 
WEEKENDS. $5.25 PER HOUR 
CALL 272-0408 CLANCY INVEN­
TORY SERVICES 
WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO­MOTE SPRING BREAK TO JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE TRAVEUCOMMISSIONSI SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710. 
FUNDRAISING Choose from 3 dif­ferent fundraisers lasting either 3 or 7 days. No Investment. Earn $$$ for your group plus personal cash bonuses for yourself. Call 1-800­932-0528, Ext 65 
Need student to pass out Long Distance callling card info to stu­dents. Monthly income. Call 800­462-3092. 
PART-TIME NANNY NEEDED to care for 1 & 4 yr. old during week­days. 10 mi S. of N~wn trans­portation needed. 9:30 to 
4:30 or any regular block of time during those hrs. Can be flexible. Please call 299-0051. 
PAID RIDE NEEDED. NO grad needs Michigan game ride from and back to Niles, Mich. Amtrak Station Sat. 9/1 0/94. Good fee paid. Call (313)821-2499. 
ADVO, INC. Nation's largest Advertising/Marketing Direct Mail Co. is currently seeking a part-time advertising coordinator tor year internship. Applicants should have had advertising/marketing classes and be seriously considering a career in the field. Please call to arrange an inteNiew at 233-2386. Ask for Alison. 
HELP WANTED: ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY NEWS SERVICES, 
232-3205 OR 288-9361. 
WANTED: RESPONSIBLE, KID­LOVING STUDENT WITH CAR TO BABYSIT 2 CHILDREN AGES 4 &6 IN MY HOME. 2-3 DAYS PER WEEK FROM 2-6. PLEASE CALL 277-5786. 
SPRING BREAK '95-SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!II Student Travel SeNices is now hir­ing campus representatives. Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Day1ona and Panama City Beach. Call 1­800-648-4849. 
HELP! My uncle will lose all respect tor me, if I don't score a bunch of Stanford/NO tickets. If you can help please call, money is no object. Bob Ricci, 201-239-2222 or 908-289-0199. 
Wanted-
A N.D 'or S.M. C. faculty or staff 
member interested in a expense 
paid ski trip to Crested Butte 
Colorado, Jan 8-15 with the ski 
club. If interested please contact 
Kevin Malone@ 272-1352 
Student Travel Sales! Sunchase 
Tours is seeking ambitious sales 
reps to promote ski and beach trips 
tor Christmas and Spring Break! 
Earn cash and free trips. Call 
today: 1-800-SUNCHASE. 
WANTED: TIX FOR PURDUE GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. JILL 273-6942 
FOR RENT 

ENGLISHWOMAN OFFERS 
QUIET ACCOMMODATION NEAR 
CAMPUS FOR ND/SMC VISI­
TORS. PHONE 
(219)631-6072 DAYTIME, 
(219)273-1751 EVENINGS. 
NOTRE DAME HOME GAMES 
RENT LARGE COUNTRY HOME 
IN GRANGER. WILL SLEEP 8 
PERSONS, 8-10 MILES TO STADI­
UM AND MINS. TO TOLL 
AD. 

FRI. TO SUN. $500 CASH PLUS 
$100 DEPOSIT. ALUMNI PLEASE 
PH. 273-9240. 
ROOMMATE needed. Female pref. Oak Hill Condo. Own room & bath. Call 273-4485. 
HAVE 3 BEDROOMS FOR RENT 
NEAR NO FOR FOOTBALL AND 
SPECIAL EVENTS. $50 A NITE. 
CONT. BREAKFAST. 
219-272-9260. 
THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN, 
NAPPANEE, ANTIQUE FILLED 
BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO 
NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE 
OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­
773-2034 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 
PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC 
EVENTS. 
219-291-7153. 
BED & BREAKFAST 291-2258. 
EDISON PARK, 3 BEDROOM HOUSE. 2 CAR GARAGE. ON PYLE ABOUT 1.25 MILE EAST OF CAMPUS $675 MONTH 282-1014 
FOR SALE 
NEW LAPTOP COMPUTERS­CHEAP! *486DX2/50,4MB RAM,COLOR,PCMCIA, SOFT­WARE AND MORE *486DX 33.8MB RAM,ACTIVE MATRIX COLOR, PCMCIA, SOFTWARE AND MORE CALL CHRIS @ 273-2070 
'91 BLUE CAVALIER. MUST SELL . GOOD PRICE. A BONUS OF F­BALL APPL. CALL 634-2689. 
MAC CLASSIC 11, 6/80, extras, soft­ware. $750 call: 4-1240 
BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS CALL COLIN AT 273-6205 
dorm !rig., hide a bed, couch, chairs, stereo cabinet 259-3023 
HEY FRESHMAN I I I WORD PROCESSOR GREAT CONDITION FOR SALE -CHEAP! 
$125 OBO JEFF 4-1576 

Upholstered swivel rocker. $25 
OBO. 272-3426. 
TICKETS 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR ALL GAMES. 
CALL BOB 219-232-5297. 
I NEED TIX FOR MICHIGAN AND 
TALLAHASSEE. I AM VERY DES­
PERATE. CALL CHRISTIAN AT 
287-6743. WILL PAY BIG$. 
NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE & 
STANFORD! X2174. 
NEED 1 MICH TICKET 
STUD. OR GA 
PLEASE CALL DARRYL @ X4243 
$$$1 NEED MICHIGAN TIX. GA OR STUD. CALL KAREN X4290. 
A LOCAL BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 
2 PAIRS OF GA SEASON TICK­
ETS. 272-7233. 
*BIG BARGAIN -HURRY* 
WILL TRADE MY 6 AF GA OR 4 
AF. PLUS 2 NAVY OR USC FOR 
YOUR 2 MfCH. OR BC GA'S. 
*288-1186* 

I NEED NO SEASON & ALL GAMES GA. WILL PAY TOP$$$$. WILL ALSO TRADE MY 6 OR 4 FOR YOUR 2 MICH. OR BC GA'S. BE SURE TO CALL. 288-1186. 
ST. JUDE, WANT 2-4 SEASON OR INDIVIDUAL GA TIX. 312-404-4903 DAN. 
I NEED GA'S FOR MICHIGAN, 
PURDUE, STANFORD, BYU & 
FSU. MIKE 289-3203. 
ALUMNUS NEEDS 1 TICKET TO 
MICHIGAN GAME ON 9/10 OR 
WILL EXCHANGE 2 TICKETS + 
CASH FOR 3 TICKETS TOGETH­
ER. CALL TOM HILDNER AT (201) 
623-1000 OR 
(201) 467-9824. 
WANTED: OCT. 15 BYU TICKETS. 4 TOGETHER. CALL 800-922-2327 JANET. 
NO VS FSU NOV. 12, CITRUS 
BOWL 

FAN NEEDS TICKETS. PLEASE 
CALL407-246-1879. MAY CALL 
COLLECT. 

ALUMNI DESPERATELY NEEDS TIX FORUM GAME. WILL PAY $$$AND/OR TRADE AF OR NAVY TIX. CALl,. DAN {319) 323-7152 AFTER 5. 
NEED MICHIGAN STD. OR GA'S. 
CALL 233-5130. 
I WILL BUY ANY HOME GAMES. 
233-5130. 

I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS. 
272-6551 

DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHI­GAN STUDENT TICKETS CALL SEAN AT 634-1101 WILL TRADE CAR OR ORGANS IF NECESSARY. 
4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED. CALL X2875 (NICKY) 
NEED TICKETS (STUDENT OR GA) TO ANY AND ALL GAMES! (HOME OR AWAY) CALLJEN AT X2875! 
NEED 2 MICH. GA TIX. CALL BILL AT 233-5719 
Need STANFORD GAs, 1 Stdnt Call Curtis 282-2197 
I NEED 6+ STUDENT TICKETS FOR THE 9/24 PURDUE GAME. CALL KEVIN @273-8699 
Willing to trade a Stanford stud. tkt for a Michigan tkt CALL JOE 273-3175 
ALUMNI DESPERATE FOR Ml GA'S AND Ml STU TXS. Please call Andrea @ 612-565-3299. 
WANTED: 2-4 GA Purdue Tickets. $100 per ticket. 515-965-0512 
Wanted: 4 Mich GAs. Desperate Alum promised boss tix! Career in jeopardy. Call Brian 815-568-6977. 
NEED STANFORD GA'S BI~IAN X2187 
I need a student booklet or any tick­ets tor football games. Will pay big $$$. Call 277-1085. 
...NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA'S*.. Will trade with 2 STANFORD GA's &lor money! Please call 634-4896. 
I need 2 STANFORD GAs, preferably together. Laura 4x2637 
Need ti~: 5 BYU G.A'S; 4 STAN­
FORD Cl.A'S; 2 STANFORD 
STUD.--CALL JOE @X2765 
Willing to pay $ any student who will sell 1 MICHIGAN ticket. Call Christy x2845. 
NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S. BETH 
X2965. 
Need 2 Ml stud. tix. Call Monica 
813-254-3716 
I desperately need 2 GA tickets for 
the NAVY game! Call Rosanna 
x3577 
I need 2 tickets to the Stanford, 
BYU or Purdue game. Call 
Rosanna x3577 
Need Stanford GA. call: 4-1240 
Need 4 GA's four Purdue game, 
together please tor family. Chris 
x1955 
Need 2 Mich. GA's 
Call Chris 273-3975 
Need Mich. Stud. Tix 
Call Chris 273-3975 
2 U of M GA's 4 Sal~est offer. 284-517 4 & leave msg. Also all Stu. Tix. 
Need 1 or 2 Mich tix GA or st 
Will trade Navy or Purdue tix or 
BIG BUCKS! x4035 
Wanted: 2 GA's for Navy game!! Phlase call Amy 4-1330. 
............................................... 
I NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR THE MICHIGAN GAME. PLEASE CALL X 2273. 
NEED 2 TIX FOR MICH. 
DESPERATE, WILL PAY$$$ 
CALL .JASON, 272-4297 
Need Mich stud tix Eric x1 087 Welcome Back Sue! 
FOR SALE: 2 GRAD.STD. TIX. 
BOOKLETS 271-8621 
NEED GA'S FOR MICH & BYU 
CALL DENNIS @ (914)­294-6546 
STANFORD GA'S NEED 4. MATT 257-0564 
NEEDED: MICHIGAN GA's $$$$$ Steve Crowley-287-6380 -­
Desperately Need 4 NAVY Tickets!!! $ $ $ $ Please Call Daniella at x2537 
I need michigan and stanford tick­ets. Call chris at237-9817 
Alum from East seeks Michigan Tix. Has BYU and Air Force GAs to trade and $$$ to spend. Call Dave 201-222-1845 ASAP 
Need 1 Mich. stud. ticket. Jim 277-3953 
DESPFRATELY SEEKING GAs tor PURDUE and NAVY. PLEASE HELP--$$$. Call Alisa-634-4355. 
STUD. SEASON TIX 4 SALE CALL BENJAMIN @254-9068 
$$NEED MICH. STUD. TIX. CALL GARY 277-9279. $$ 
Will pay $150 CASH for your stud. tix book. Call Chi-Chi at #1185 
MY FRIENDS WILL PAY ANY­THING FOR MICHIGAN STUD. OR GATIX!I! CALL 272-8606 
NEED TIX for MICH. 2 Stu & 2 GA's Please call Chris@ x1527 
Wanted: 4 GA's for Michigan game. 
call 288-2589 
For Sale: 2 married stud. booklets. Call Elee 287-2528. 
CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD NOTRE DAME. I would if I had tick­ets to the Stanford game. Alum REALLY wants to return to campus with family. Student tix ok. Price negotiable. Call collect after 6 pm 
(516) 499-5009. 
I need Mich stu, will trade my Stanford or pay $. Ruth X2359 
I NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA'S BADLY PARENTS FLYING IN FROM NY MIKEX42210 
WANTED: MICHIGAN TICKETS WILL BEAT OTHERS BEST OFFER. WILLING TO TRADE OTHER HOME GA'S. CALL KYLE AT x1478. 
WILL PAY CASH FOR GA'S FOR 
ALL HOME GAMES AND FSU. 
MIKE 289-3203. 
NEED TWO MICHIGAN GA'S. 
X2254. 
I NEED MICHIGAN GA'S 
CALL RYAN: 271-5685 
$$$$ LOOKING FOR SOME FALL BREAK CASH? NEED 2 TIX FOR NO-MICH. GAME. CALL AIMEE AT 277-0715. $$$$ 
$$Need MICH. TIX$$ 
CALL MIKE 289 6988 
WANTED: 
4 GA'S FOR STANFORD 10/1 
CALL JASON x1033 
WANTED 2 MICHIGAN GA FOOT­BALL TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 634-3106. 
BEAUTIFUL NURSE NEEDS 1 
G.A. FOR THE MICHIGAN GAME. PLEASE CALL 287-7444. 
1 GA for all home games for sale. 
Call Ed at {708) 366-1329. 
I WILL BUY YOUR STD. TIX. 
BOOKLET. CALL 233-5130. 
NEED STUDENT TIX BOOKLET! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! call MATT @ x3386 
I NEED ONE MICHIGAN TICKET 
PLEASE CALL MELISSA AT 
272-0108. 
I DESPERATELY NEED Ml TIX!I 
X4-3881 I need 1 or 2 Michigan GA's please call Kathleen @ x4899 
Need 3 Michigan GA's. Will pay big $$$, Kevin at 289-3203 
WANTED 3 GA EITHER ND VS PUR, STAN, BYU CALL COL 215­355-7131 
WILL TRADE 2 FSU GA'S FOR 2 Ml GA'S. CALL ANDREA@ 612­565-3299. 
HELP!!! Need Michigan & Stanford tix. Call Alan @ x1663 
NEED MICH STUD OR GA'S CALL TED X-3054 $$$ 
NEED STUD BOOKS AND GA FOR ALL GAMES 
TONY 272 -6621 
I NEED MICH. STUDS. KEVIN 271-7428 
Need 1 Mich stud Tix Call Bill @ 272-2376 
I HAVE ALL HOME TIX. WILL SELL OR TRADE FOR FSU. CALL TONY X3558 
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE!!!Illl My Utile Brother is Flying in for the Michigan Game and Desperately Needs a Ticket (Stud. or GA) ....Call Theresa x4708" ... 
Wanted Student Ticket Booklet call Erin at 284-5341 
Will buy Student Ticket Booklets for outrageous amounts. Call sean at x11 01. Any section. 
NO FAMILY REUNION needs 
Stanford TX. TOP DOLLAR. Call 
517-332-4719. 
Needed: Ticket, preferably GA. tor firil home game. My mother will be eternally grateful. Call 4-4185. 
Need 4 Stanford GA's! Willing to pay $$$$ Call Suzy 4-3427 
WANTED: 2 ND-MICH TIX. CALL 
COLLECT PAUL THAL, 
BUS: 810-477-0800, X2365 
OR HOME: 810-349-5543. 
4 Stanford GA's-I need them. Please call Bevin at x2533 and let's make a deal. 
I need one Michigan ticket. Please help me and call John at 277-5720. 
SELLING MICHIGAN GA'S AND 
BOOKLETS. LUIS 273-1528 
2 ROLLING STONES/LENNY 
KRAVITZ (@ MSU) TIX 4 SALE. 
NEED RIDE THERE. CALL JEN 
X2875. 
FOR SALE 2 MARRIED STD TIX 
BOOKLETS. 232 4827. 
I HAVE A USC GA 
(THE LAST GAME!) 
I WANT A MICH TICKET!! 
ERICA 273-4599 
PERSONAL 
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR 
FOR ONLY $99 FOR TWO 
SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV­
ERY CALL: 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 
272-5959. 
VETERANS: NEED MONEY FOR SCHOOL? JOIN THE INDIANA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD. GOOD LEADERSHIP POSITIONS AVAIL­ABLE NOW. CALL MAJOR TIM WARRICK (219) 234-9258. 
FRESHMEN-SOPHOMORES: 
LEARN LEADERSHIP AND EARN 
MONEY FOR SCHOOL. INDIANA 
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD. CALL 
MAJOR TIM WARRICK (219) 
234-9258. 
see ClASS/ page I 0 


The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 5, 1994 
•NFL 
Lions clip Falcon's wings Colts, Faulk run over 
By WENDY E. LANE 
Associated Press 
Battling a leg cramp, Jason Hanson kicked a 37 -yard field goal in overtime to beat the Falcons in June Jones' coaching debut for Atlanta. 
Lions tied it 28-28 on a 15­yard pass from Mitchell to Anthony Carter with 30 seconds left. Hanson's kickoff dribbled to Alton Montgomery, who scooped it up and rambled 37 yards to the Atlanta 44. Norm Johnson's try on a 52-yard field goal sailed wide right as time expired. 
Detroit's new quarterback, Scott Mitchell, was 15 of 30 for 173 yards with three touch­downs. Jeff George, the new guy for Atlanta, completed 29 of 37 passes for 281 yards and three touchdowns. 
Andre Rison had personal bests with 14 catches of George's bullets for 193 yards. 
Browns 28, Bengals 20 
The Browns became the first team since Detroit in 1977 to return a kickoff and a punt for touchdowns in the same game. 
Randy Baldwin ran a kickoff back 85 yards, and Eric Metcalf went a club-record 92 yards 
Kramer shines as Bears beat Bucs 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Erik Kramer, who usually begins a season on the bench, made his first opening-game start a winning one and Chris Gedney caught two touchdown passes Sunday as the Chicago Bears beat the Tampa Bay Buc­caneers 21-9. 
Kramer, signed away from Detroit as a free agent, led the Lions to the NFC Central title two of the last three years. But 
NOW 
HIRING 

Food Servers & Hostess/Host Flexible Hours Apply Anytime 
272--3672 

Cleveland Rd. across from UP Mall 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS!!! 
DO YOU WANT TO IMPRESS YOUR FRIENDS AND FAMILY BY TELLING THEM YOU VOLUNTEER IN THE ADMISSIONS OFFICE AT NOTRE DAME? HERE'S YOUR CHANCE TO HAVE FUN AND ASSISTADMISSIONS AT THESAME TIME. TinSVOLUNTEER PRo­GRAM IS RESPONSIBLE FOR SEVERAL MAJOR RECRUITMENT PROJECTS, AND WE NEED STUDENT VOLUNTEERS FOR THE UPCOMING YEAR. IF THIS SOUNDS INTERESTING TO YOU, COME TO OUR OPEN HOUSE TO LEARN MORE m 

OPEN HOUSE: TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994 7:30PM ROOM 123 EARTH SCIENCE (BROWNSON COURTYARD) 
IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS OR CANNOT MAKE THE MEETING, CALL ANNE PETERSON AT 1-7403 
he was a third-stringer at the start of both of those seasons. 
The Bears offered him $8.1 million for three years to be their No. 1 quarterback. On Sunday. he began earning the money by completing 18 of 25 passes for 212 yards. 
Two of those completions went to Gedney for the tight end's first touchdowns in the NFL. 
The Buccaneers, with an ef­fective ball-control offense, had pulled to 14-9 on a pair of with a punt within a three­minute span in the second quarter. 
The Bengals made it close in the final quarter, when David Klingler lofted a 24-yard touch­down pass to rookie Darnay Scott with nine minutes left. 
Seahawks 28, Redskins 7 
Rick Mirer led three scoring drives to give Seahawks coach Tom Flores his 1 OOth pro victo­ry and spoil Norv Turner's debut with the Redskins. Mirer completed 17 of 28 passes for 183 yards and one touchdown, and Chris Warren rushed for 100 yards and scored two touchdowns. 
Washington rookie quarter­back Heath Shuler played for two possessions late in the sec­ond quarter after a drive led by starter John Friesz sputtered. But Shuler was sacked twice. 
Chiefs 30, Saints 17 
Joe Montana improved to 10-0 in the Superdome, throw­ing two touchdowns and com­pleting 24 of 33 for 315 yards. 
New Orleans' defense gave the Chiefs quarterback 40 dif­ferent looks, but nothing both­ered him. 
Kansas City totally dominat­ed the first half, with two touchdowns and a field goal on its first three possessions. The Chiefs had the ball for 18:16 and outrushed New Orleans 86 yards to 16. 
Jim Everett, making his first regular-season start with the Saints, completed 26 of 37 passes for 325 yards, two touchdowns and two intercep­tions. 
Packers 16, Vikings 10 
One day after threatening a walkout, Sterling Sharpe was back at work, catching a 14­yard touchdown pass for the Packers, who agreed to adjust his contract. 
Sharpe caught seven passes for a game-high 53 yards, including the toss from Brett Favre that gave Green Bay a 10-0 lead in the second quar­ter. 
Packers safety George Teague intercepted two of Moon's passes, spoiling his debut with the Vikings at Lambeau Field. 
Moon completed 20 of 37 passes for 166 yards with three interceptions and no touch­downs. He was sacked three times. 
third-quarter field goals by Michael Husted. 
But after Husted missed from 54 yards in the fourth period, the Bears needed just six plays to gain control as Gedney slipped behind the defense and grabbed a 37 -yard scoring pass from Kramer with 5:35 left. 
The Bears were aided by key penalties in both of their scor­ing drives in the first half, when they took a 14-3 lead. 
Kramer's 40-yard pass to Jeff Graham put the ball on the Bucs' 1-yard line. Tampa Bay's Hardy Nickerson intercepted on the next play, but the Bucs' Jeff Brady was offside. Lewis Tillman then ran in for a touch­down with 57 seconds remain­ing in the half. 
Chicago, with the benefit of a 37-yard pass interference call on Tampa's Martin Mayhew, had gone 68 yards for a touch­down on its opening driv-e. Kramer hit Gedney for a tO­yard score less than four min­utes into the game. 
error-plagued Oilers 
By STEVE HERMAN 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The new-look Indianapolis Colts made quick work of the Houston Oiler,s' 11-game regu­lar-season winning streak Sunday. 
Marshall Faulk, one of 13 new starters, rushed for 143 yards and three touchdowns in his NFL debut as the Colts shocked the error-plagued Houston Oilers 45-14. 
Indianapolis played nothing like the team that was 4-12 a year ago. The Colts scored after each of three Houston turnovers and set a team record for most points in a sea­son-opening game. 
All six Indianapolis touch­downs were scored by players who had joined the team since the end of last season. 
Faulk, the second overall pick in the draft, ran for touch­downs of 1, 2 and 11 yards. Linebacker Tony Bennett, a free agent from Green Bay, returned a fumble a Colts­record 75 yards for another touchdown, and Bears castoff Jim Harbaugh passed for two touchdowns to Floyd Turner, a free agent from New Orleans. 
Houston, suffering its worst loss since a 61-7 defeat to Cincinnati in 1989, got its only touchdowns on fourth-quarter passes of 2 yards to Pat Carter and 16 yards to Haywood Jef­fires from Bucky Richardson, who replaced starter Cody Carlson in the third period. 
Carlson left the game with an injured left shoulder, but X­rays were negative. 
The Oilers, starting their frrst game in the post-Warren Moon era, fell apart early in the sec­ond quarter after failing to 
The Observer 
0 0 
ts now accepttng applications for the 
SMC Day Editors 
If interested in this paid position, contact Beth Regan at 631-4540 or 284-4449. 
score from the Colts 5. 
Carlson, the full-time starter since Moon's trade to Minnesota in the offseason, was sacked by Tony McCoy for a 20­yard loss and a fumble, and Bennett scooped up the ball on the run and raced 7 5 yards for his second career touchdown and a 14-0 Indianapolis lead. It broke the former Colts record for a fumble return of 64 yards by Stan White against Buffalo in 1976. 
Indianapolis drove 56 yards on its next possession, includ­ing a 31-yard reception by Faulk, accompanied by a per­
-....... 
sonal foul on the Oilers' Cris Dishman that took the Colts to the Houston 15. Three plays later, Harbaugh passed 12 yards to Sean Dawkins at the 4, then Harbaugh faked a handoff to Faulk and flipped the ball to Turner for the touchdown. 
The Colts' defense and spe­cial teams set up the next two scores. 
Ashley Ambrose forced a fumble by Travis Hannah on the kickoff after Turner's first touchdown, then it took four plays for the Colts to score again, on a 9-yard pass to Turner with 3:16 left in the half. 
On the next Houston posses­sion, Ray Buchanan intercepted Carlson on the first play and returned the ball 22 yards to the Oilers 20. After three runs by Faulk and a pass interfer­ence call against Dishman at the 2, Faulk ran in for his sec­ond TD and a 35-0 Indianapolis lead. 

Monday, September 5, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
• Men's Soccer 
New Formation begins season 


..
_ 
t t • 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Sports Writer 
In the preseason, the Notre Dame men's soccer teaQJ. made an important change from a 4­4-2 formation to a 3-5-2 in hopes to take advantage of their abundance of excellent midfielders and 'to increase their offensive pressure. 
In making this change the Irish eliminated their stopper position and moved last year's stopper, senior Kevin Adkisson, to sweeper. 
Yet, while these changes proved to be tremendously suc­cessful, the No. 16 Irish lost to No. 15 Penn State 1-0 when Travis Berger punched in the winning goal in the 83rd minute. 
This disappointing loss was no reflection of Adkisson's first 
Opener 
continued from page 16 
the result," said Petrucelli. "We felt all along that we have a strong attacking team and to post six goals against a strong defensive team like Rutgers is an accomplishment." 
While the Rutgers match may have been an indication of fu­ture Irish successes, Sunday's match versus LaSalle displayed Notre Dame's continued domi­nation of the MCC. 
Although the ball rarely left Irish territory, LaSalle, playing with nine players back in order to limit the effectiveness of the Irish team speed, managed to hold Notre Dame scoreless until freshman Holly Manthei put away an Irish shot deflected by Explorer goalie Chris Raub at the 36:30 mark. 
Solid goaltending by Raub and missed conversions by the Irish left the score 1-0 at the half, a moral victory for a LaSalle squad that was beaten 12-0 by Notre Dame last year. 
"I was very satisfied with the 
lass 

continued from page 12 
WANTED: 
EXERCISERS WHO ARE LOOKING FOR A FUN, ENERGETIC AEROBICS PRO­GRAM. JOIN US AT JAZZEACISE, GEORGETOWN SHOPPING CENTER. 277-Q111. LESS THAN 10 MINS. FROM CAMPUS. 
STUDENT DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE. 
PRAY TO ST. JUDE, PATRON OF IMPOS­SIBLE CAUSES. 
GO ACROSS CAMPUS UNDER A GROOVY TIE-DYED WOODSTUCK UMBRELLA. $13.00 + S&H. 
CALL 1-800-259-1250 TO ORDER. 
collegiate game at sweeper. 
"Kevin Adkisson played his first game at sweeper, and had an excellent game," said Irish coach Mike Berticelli. "He was, in my mind, the best player on the field." 
While he had not played sweeper since high school. he feels very comfortable with the position and likes the prospects of having five midfielders in front of him. Yet, most of all, he is just happy to have the op­portunity to play and contribute to the team. 
"We have a lot of great mid­fielders," said Adkisson. "So, I think this (elimination of the stopper for an extra midfielder) is going to benefit us greatly. As, for the move to sweeper, I like it a lot. It is more of a mental position, and I am very comfortable with that. But, 
first half," said Explorer coach Craig Dorman. "The players did everything that I asked them to do. Chris [Raub] and the players in the backfield played very well." 
But LaSalle could not over­come the relentless pressure from the Irish, giving up four goals in the second half includ­ing two by sophomore Stacia Masters. 
Despite the 5-0 victory, Irish assistant coach Carla Chin was concerned with the impact of LaSalle's defensive ploy on the Irish backfield's concentration. 
"We were a little relaxed in the back," said Chin. "Our passes weren't always as crisp as they should have been. That's a result of the ball being on our end of the field for so long, and that's something we'll need to work on." 
Overall, however, Chin was satisfied with the Irish perfor­mance. 
"One of the things we've wanted to work on is how we could adjust to that type of de­fense, and we were able to do that today. 
$ave with CREDI-CALL. Charge long dis­tance phone calls to Visa/MC/Disc. .239/min entire USA. No surcharge. 800­364-7933 Ext 8699 
I I I SENIORS I I I 
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEW SIGN-UP TRAINING SESSION TONIGHT! 
6:30P.M. HAYES-HEALY AUDITORIUM 
SPONSORED BY CAREER & PLACEMENT SERVICES. PRESENTED BY PAUL REYNOLDS. 
I I I SENIORS I I I 
$5.50 HAIRCUT 
VITO'S BARBER SHOP 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
more importantly, it's great to have a chance to play." 
Yet, even with Adkisson's great play and the domination of the game from good midfield work, the Irish could not pull out a victory. 
"This was a disappointing loss, we didn't deserve to lose," said Berticelli. "We outplayed them for the whole second half and had great chances, but it didn't happen. It was very frustrating." 
The Nittany Lions only pene­trated the Irish defense three times, but they got a break and made the most of it. 
The Irish had great play from freshman forward Ryan Turner and sophomore forward Chris Mathis, who replaced starter Tim Oates at the end of the first half because of problems with Oates' knee brace. 
Tourney 
continued from page 16 
mented Brown. "I'm thrilled for her because not only did she break the record, now she'll shatter it." 
Another thrilling aspect to come out of the tournament was the emergence of Notre Dame's stellar recruiting class. Freshman Angie Harris show­cased her ability with 17 kills against the Spartans, while freshman middle blocker Jamie Lee stepped up with eight kills and four blocks. Along with Harris and Lee, junior Shannon Tuttle rounded out the Irish players on the All-Tournament team. 
In the first match on Satur­day, the Irish dropped their only game of the invitational to Illinois-Chicago, but managed to down the Flames 15-3, 15-8, 13-15, 15-6. Sophomore out­side hitter Jenny Birkner col­lected 17 digs to lead the Irish along with 12 kills from Harris. 
The Irish also beat Western Michigan in three games. 
233-4767 
Grand Opening SIMONE'S WHIPPING CHAMBER STANFORD 128 Ph. #2123 Bus. Hours 9:00am to 9:00pm For A Good Time, Call For An Appt. 
I I I SENIORS I I ! 
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEW SIGN-UP TRAINING SESSION TONIGHT! 
6:30P.M. HAYES-HEALY AUDITORIUM 
SPONSORED BY CAREER & PLACEMENT SERVICES. PRESENTED BY PAUL 
REYNOLDS. 
I I I SENIORS I I I 



Monday, September 5, 1994 
The Observer • TODAY 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
, II c'(llotv ~." l)Amtv 
~~~-I ~{{ I-Jv<;r 13ou6HT 
A (.JEEK AbO-·­'----... 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'(()JR. MOl-\ 'S\JR£ WAS C\-\t£R~\Jl \\\IS l'IOR~I~G. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Car in a procession
1 "Woe is me!" 
37 Spring mo. 

s Inn, informally 
38 West Point 

10 Dollop 
salutatorian,

14 Frolic 
1829

15 Title holder I 
41 Language

16 Burt's ex 
ending

nJai­
42 Off course 

18 Former auto 
43 City two hours 

executive 
south of 

20 Two-pointers 
Lillehammer 

22 Differs 
44 Spreads the 

23 Saucer 
word

occupants, for 
46 Bit of voodoo 

short 
47 Grueling tests 

24 Mozart's "­fan tutte" 48 Sword with a guard
25 Ball girl 
28 Vacation spot so Louis Freeh's org.
30 "Jerusalem Delivered" poet 51 Rubbed 34 Border lake 54 Ascendant 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=-+-:::+.::-+.=:-! 12-over lightly 13 Kind of crime 
21 Season of l'annee 24 Polish producer 2sCap 
irregular edge 27 Defame 
C.u PutYEiR. 
I • 
~ou 

nt. Nt..'ltR S'C.t..~ 1-\ER 
1-\Ut-\M\NG ~D St>.S\-\f>.'\1\>IG 
f>.\<()\)N\) 1\.\£ 1<..\Kil.EN 
1 ..__~,-..-. l\~E 1\-\t>.T. 
sa Two-time U.S. Open golf champion 
61 Kind of shark 62 Suffix with buck 63 Pentax rival 64 Sicilian rumbler 65 Poet Robert 
-Warren 66 Exhausted 67 Sunup direction 
DOWN 

1 Bedouin 2 She gets what she wants 3Amo,-, a mat 4 Modern film maker s Leaves in a 
hurry &Wows 7 Jet's heading a Mercury and 
Jupiter, e.g. 9 "Well done!" 10 Actress DeHaven 11 Places 
T Wo"""~ W1-1'1 l\1" C:t>. ""P~II'1EI>..''S 
Ul"pLvbbED... 
00 
0 
BILL WATTERSON 
I T\-\\~K \'o\OM 
PUT tv\£ 0\lT 1-\t.Q£ TI-llS 
EP..RL'{ ()~ 
PVf(P(JSE. 
Puzzle by Albert J. Klaus 
2aBoil 29 Military 
chaplain 31 Hot sauce 32 Word with cold 
or breathing 33 Chocolate snacks 35 Elevations: 
Abbr. 36Remark 39 Hardly one with 
a lilting voice 40 Neoprimitive American artist 

45 Unextinguished ss Ninth Greek 47 Kimono sash letter 49 Paradises s& Actress Woods so Weather line and others 51 Keep time 57 Pest 
manually 59 One who gets 52 "You are-" special 53 Ages and ages treatment 54 Soon 60 W.W. II hero 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
~9-5 

"We're not going to the mountains, so shut up and let's go! ... Most kids would count their lucky stars that every vacation their folks took 'em to the beach!" 

Jfaue somelhiny lo sayl Q/se Observer classifieds 
0 0 0 
localedon !.he :Jrdfloor of .Ba!Jorfune 

The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. Make checks payable to and mail to: 
The Observer  
PO BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D  Enclosed is $60 for one academic year.  
D  Enclosed is $35 for one semester.  
Name  
Address  

City _______ State ____ Zip _____ 
.. 
.. 



FOOTBALL 
1994 
Irish, Powlus power past Wildcats 
SEE INSERT 

SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, September 5, 1994 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish shoot down Rutgers in opener 
ByRIANAKEY Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame fans were look­ing to see a promising opening game performance by a Fight­ing Irish team this weekend. 
While many supporters thought this required a trip to Chicago, other Irish fans watched a dazzling debut with­out battling traffic on the Kennedy Expressway or forking out $4 for a Soldier Field beer as the Notre Dame women's soccer team posted shut-outs 
over Rutgers and LaSalle to Rosella Guerrero had two first open their 1994 campaign. half goals against the Knights. 
If Saturday's match against Rutgers was any indication of rero, while managing just two how Notre Dame will handle fu­shots on Notre Dame goalie Jen 
ture Big East opponents, leav­Reno Ia. ing the Midwestern Collegiate The result was a pleasant Conference will do little to hurt surprise to Irish coach Chris the Irish won-loss percentage. Petrucelli, who anticipated a 
The Scarlet Knights allowed much closer contest. three goals in each half, includ­"Quite frankly I'm shocked at ing two by junior Rosella Guer­
see OPENER I page 14 



• VOllEYBAll 
Tourney title stays at home 
Birkner (right) helps Irish win Shamrock Invite 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
There's no better way to start ofT a season than by capturing a tournament right in your own backyard. 
That's exactly what the 13th­ranked Irish volleyball team did this weekend as they romped to two impressive wins on Saturday en route to the Notre early on, but Notre Dame's out­side hitting combination proved to be too much. 

"Michigan State is the best team we have played so far, and we controlled them pretty well," said head coach Debbie Brown. 
Tournament MVP Christy Pe­ters also had things under con­trol as she racked up 11 kills in the finale along with 20 digs in the tournament. The last one moved her into first place on the all-time dig list with 1325. 
"Christy continues to play a great all-around game," com-
see TOURNEYI page 14 

Tournament MVP Christy Peters blocks opponent during weekend action, in which she broke the all-time mark for digs. 

of note...

Soccer drops tough game Despite loss, new position for Kevin Adkisson 
Look inside for the highlights of 

proves worthwhile 
Sunday's NFL action. 

See page 14 
__j 






