
COLLEGE N<."K'' <t'
Thursday, April21, 1994• Vol. XXVI No. 128 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SURV expansion plan unanimously approved 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
A proposal for the expansion of the Spec Unica Resource and Volunteer Center (SURV) was passed unanimously last night at the first meeting of the 1994­95 Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG). 


The proposal, submitted by a student committee, stated the need for the existing SURV or­ganization to have a more visi­ble presence on campus, ade­quate office hours and consis­tent contacts in the community to allow students to take fuller advantage of service opportu­nities. 
To accomplish this, the ex­panded SURV would include a full time director position in addition to the current student director position. According to the proposal, the director would ideally be a sister of the Holy Cross. In doing this the Sisters of the Holy Cross would be able to maintain a visible role on campus. 
The director would also be readily available to students and provide the community with a visible liaison as well as coordinating service events such as the walk for Midwest Flood Victims and Christmas in April. 
To assist the full time direc­tor, SURV would need someone to fill a secretarial position. This could be accomplished with either several student workers or one secretary ·posi­tion. 
Another major part of the proposal surrounds the need to relocate the current SURV of­fice to a place more visible to students. In the proposal, the basement of Holy Cross Hall is suggested as a possible reloca­tion site. With small modifica­tions, the space opposite the vending area would be an equally beneficial location for both students and the Sisters of the Holy Cross, according to the proposal. 
Funding for the expansion would come from a variety of sources. The proposal requests the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross to donate the funds for the director's salary for the first year. Other fund­ing might come from the al­ready existing budget given to SURV by BOG and from addi­tional gifts, grants and other resources. 
The student committee also asked BOG for a tentative promise of $5,000 to aid in the expansion. However, because no budget has been finalized, BOG was unable to determine an exact amount of financial support. 
According to Melissa Whelan, senior member of the student committee, there are many potential sources for funding. 
"The alumnae-funded stu­dent service project is evidence of the College's support. If you build it, they will fund it," she said. "We are looking for a support of confidence, not nec­essarily funding." 
The proposal was supported in conjunction with the results of the recent student service survey which stated that 95 percent of responding students would take advantage of SURV 
see BOG I page 4 

"Notre Dame state of mind" 
Senior Tim O'Neill performed last night in the LaFortune Ballroom as part of the AnTostal '94 celebration. The concert included numbers with a full band as well as many solos. 


ND to co-host teleconference 
By SEAN O'CONNOR 
News Writer 
The University of Notre Dame will collaborate with the National Catholic Educational Association from May 5-7 on a teleconference symposium fo­cusing on fundraising for Catholic elementary and sec­ondary schools. 
The symposium, entitled "Building a Premiere Development Program in a Catholic School," aims to pro­vide the participants with the strategies and techniques of leading fundraising experts in the education field. 
"The conference will help a number of Catholic schools take their development programs from an adequate to a superior level," said Sister Mary Burke, a representative for the NCEA who is working with Notre Dame on organizing the tele­conference. 
Currently, approximately 90 percent of Catholic secondary schools and 10 percent of Catholic elementary schools have developmental offices with paid staffs. Fundraising efforts usually consist of an annual fund drive. 
The symposium will assemble five fundraising experts who "have built outstanding devel­opment programs in their schools," said Burke. 
These panelists will be Christina Freidhoff, president of Saint Mary's Academy in Portland, OR; Father Donald Rowe, president of Saint Ignatius College Preparatory School in Chicago; Sister Maureen Doyle, director of the Urban Community School in Cleveland; Molly Cromwell, vice president for university advancement at Marymount University in Arlington, VA.; and Patricia Usyk, development 
see SCHOOLS I page 4 


Bookstore overcharging claims investigated 
Editors Note: The following is the last in a two part series ex­amining the operations and policies of The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
By BRIAN POSNANSKI · News Writer 
If you know an engineering or business student, chances are you are acquainted with that small, glossy little textbook that causes them pain. Small text­books can cost the same as larger ones-as much as $70 or $80. 
Many Notre Dame students claim the bookstore over­charges. 
Evidence gathered by The Observer says yes and no-for reasons not always clear. 
Some students voice practical reasons for why they think the bookstore overcharges. Often it centers around the return and exchange policy. 
"Whlm I pay for books and I read six or eight pages and I only get 25 cents back, I think that's kind of cheap," said Michael Marion, a senior Management major. "I think everyone says the same thing. It's just overpriced." 
Rumors abound about the bookstore's pricing policies. And, of course, where money is 
concerned, everyone has an opinion. 
"I bought books that aren't very thick that have been 60 or 70 bucks," said Jon Miranda, a senior Engineering student. From what I heard, the book­store replaced the prices." 
Lance Cochran, a senior Theology and Government major, thinks the bookstore has an advantage in being on a campus without a mobile stu­dent body. "If you don't have a way off-campus, you have to buy your books there," he said. "They charge an exorbitant amount." 
Bookstore Director Larry Ratliff knows the complaints. With two children at Notre Dame, he is well acquainted with the price of books. 
"I was the same way when I was (the students') age," said Ratliff. "I sympathize and I un­derstand the students' reaction. I know what the textbooks cost, and I'm paying the same price you are." 
According to Ratliff, it is the publishers, not the bookstore, who set the prices. "The selling price of books are determined by publishers," he said. 
In explaining that publishers set a list price for books, Ratliff addressed a common cause for suspicion among students. 


tag blacked over," he said. "The publisher may do this when the price of the book rises. The publisher can raise the price of books at random, but usually they won't do it un­less the manufacturing costs (labor, cost of paper) go up." 
"It all depends on what the bookstore's invoiced (billed by the publisher)," said Ratliff. 
The publisher's list price, which is the same as the dis­tributor's retail price, is not set in stone. According to infor­mation provided by the book­store, one-quarter of a book's retail price goes to the distribu­tor-i. e. the bookstore. The price includes freight, person­nel, operations and income. 
Representatives at Irwin Publishing Company, which makes business texts, and Wiley & Sons, which makes en­gineering texts, said the pub­lisher has no control over what the distributor charges. Irwin and Wiley texts are sold in the bookstore. 
"The list price is just what we suggest they sell it at," said a representative for Irwin pub­lishing. The representative at Irwin and one at Wiley said that distributors get a discount off the list price. 
To test Ratliffs assertion, The Observer recorded list prices for 15 brand new textbooks that are still in print. The books were from various disci­plines and did not have a pub­lisher's price tag. 
The actual list prices suggest no definite logic in how the bookstore prices textbooks. Of the 15 books checked against the publisher's suggested list price, seven were marked up by the bookstore and two were less. The mark-ups averaged $4.48, and ranged from $12 to just $1. 
The two mark-downs were more drastic. One was listed by the publisher at $42.95, while the bookstore charged $27.75. Another was listed at $81.95. The bookstore charged only $74.70. 
During the week leading up to this article, Ratliff was unavail­able for comment. The book­store's book department said all inquiries were to be put to his office. 
Jumping to the conclusion that the boo~store is defrauding the students, however, ignores other factors. 
As stated in yesterday's arti­cle, the bookstore is a for-profit business-for the University. The bookstore comes under the University's control, and is bet­ter termed revenue generating rather than profit making. All funds go to the u·niversity's general budget. Jim Lyphout, associate vice president for business affairs, said income from the bookstore is a deter­rent to high tuition. 
Either way, students still pay, whether it be making the check out to the bookstore or to the University. Students, in effect, pay the tab for keeping their own tuition down. 
One Notre Dame parent who wished to remain unnamed works in an area bookstore and orders her son's books to avoid the bookstore. When asked why the bookstore would charge more than list price, she responded, "It's very definitely for their profit. I can't figure it any other way. We all use the same publishers and distribu­tors. I order them myself so we don't have to pay the up charge." 
To a great extent, professors determine how dependent stu­
see BOOKSTORE I page 4 


~----~p~ag~e_2_______________________-__-____.___·~----~--~_-_--_-_-_-_-~T~h~'~~~b~~=·~~e=r-·~I~~~S~I[)~E~--------------~~~--------~~-------_T_h_ur_~_-a~y~,A-p~r-•1_2_1~,-19_9__4 
INSIDE COLUMN 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Corrine Doran John Lucas Pani Carson Cheryl Moser Kathleen J. Young Sports Mike Norbur Graphics Christopher Mullins Systems Kyle Kusek Accent Lynn Bauwens Lab Tech Thomas Zipprich 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
l 
f i t 
! 
IL 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Go crazy!  
Four killed in chemical explosion at steel plant in Ohio  
Now's your  MIDDLETOWN, Ohior-4 -0-m-ll-es--...., based Kokosing Construction. An explosion flashed through a steel ~ They were at the plant to do mainte­plant Wednesday, killing four people 40km nance work.  
working on a 25-foot chemical tank. >---~--Kokosing Construction officials declined  
only shot  The deaths came six months after a ~ to comment. man was fatally crushed at the plant, Jim Fetters, a union trustee for the which is part of the AK Steel Corp. com-Armco Employees Independent  
plex 25 miles north of Cincinnati. Federation and a 21-year plant employ- 
I was sitting on South ________  The cause of the explosion, which fire ee, said he could not recall a previous ac- 
Quad when all of a sud­den, the infamous Log· Lady strolled by like she still owned Twin Peaks or something. Cradling her piece of pine, she asked it a question and then whis­pered to me, "Open your mind." I left her talking to her precious log and wandered across cam-Bevin Kovalik  Deputy Chief Tom Sauer said was "like cident in which more than one person a flash fire," was not immediately c::i OHIO was killed. known. The federal Occupational Safety ~ He said he wasn't aware of any safety and Health Administration was investi­complaints involving the area where the gating. explosion occurred. Ammonia and phosphoric acid were . WEST "Safety is an issue every day, 24 hours a inside the tank when the explosion KENTUCKY VIRGINIA day," Fetters said. "I think the business occurred, but no chemicals were'----------------'-A-P_NV__m_.J-_-,.c~as-te__,llo of making steel is dangerous." released, said Lynn Irmiter Carlson, a AK Steel spokesman Alan McCoy spokeswoman for the Ohio Environmental Protection declined to release a history of fatal accidents for the Agency. company. but a maintenance employee was crushed to The plant has "a history of spills," and the EPA has been death at the coke plant on Oct. 12, 1993.  
pus. Assistant Accent Editor On my way back to the dorm, I swear I passed female and male stu­dents openly mingling on the quad. Yes, for those who have an open mind, co-ed interac­tion is possible even on this campus. I turn to walk in my dorm, but something didn't look quite right. Whoa, this is too much. But much to my surprise and delight, in place of Howard Hall  working with it to solve ground-water pollution problems, The Middletown-based steel maker, formerly Armco Carlson said. She said she could not be more specific Steel Corp., recently changed its name in a conversion to about the spills and did not know whether the EPA had a publicly traded company. It was jointly owned by cited the plant for pollution problems. Armco Inc. and Japan's Kawasaki Steel Corp. The explosion happened in an area where coke byprod-The steel company was founded in 1900 as the American ucts are melted for use in making steel products, said AK Rolling Mill Co. Steel Corp. spokesman Jim Weyers. Two people escaped Killed Wednesday were James Prater Jr., 45, of the area unhurt. Middletown; David Reekers, 45, Ludlow, Ky;, Lonnie Fire Chief John Sauter said the victims were employed Stephens, Bellevue, Ky.; and David Kort, Cincinnati, by McGraw-Kokosing Inc., a division of Fredericktown-Middletown Regional Hospital said.  
stood a building with the following engraving above the door: O'Hara Hall, Home to ND's First Coed Naked Lacrosse Team.  Dalai Lama relaxes with M*A*S*H* Plea filed to spare teen from lashing  
Next, I browsed through the Bookstore, and  STANFORD, Calif. SINGAPORE  
not only were prices significantly lower, but  How does the supreme spiritual · An American teen-ager sentenced to a flogging for van­ 
right smack dab in the middle of the household  leader of Tibetan Buddhists relax? He dalizing cars made a final plea for mercy Wednesday, but  
products aisle, I spotted an assortment of con­ watches "M-A-S-H." The Dalai Lama, there was no sign Singapore's president would spare him.  
doms. Holy Toledo! You turn your back for  who lives in exile in Dharmasala, Lawyers for Michael P. Fay delivered the 13-page petition  
one second, and Notre Dame goes crazy liber­ India, arrived in the San Francisco Bay for a pardon to the lstana palace residence of President  
al. At last our minds are opening.  area Tuesday as part of a two-week Ong Teng Cheong. They did not reveal the contents of the  
I continued my adventure, wondering if it  American tour. He touched on topics .._, document, but a decision is expected within days. The  
was a dream. True story. I walked back by the  ranging from U.S. economic policy '­date of the flogging has not been scheduled. President  
Rock, and suddenly the world changed into a  toward China to "M-A-S-H," his Clinton spoke out Tuesday on Fay's behalf. "It's not  
fun house with mirrors everywhere.  favorite TV show before evening prayers. "It comes on at entirely clear that his confession wasn't coerced from  
Thousands of streakers ran across the campus,  5:30 p.m., in time for my evening tea," he said, laughing. him," Clinton said in Washington. Clinton earlier sent a  
their flesh flapping in the breeze.  "So my office does not start my evening prayers until the letter to Ong ask that he repeal the sentence. The full  
I chuckled. Showing off every once in a while  appropriate time." The Nobel Peace l?rize winner said he Cabinet of Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong customarily  
can be good. But it gets pretty messy if others  feels defeated at the prospect of freeing Tibet from the reviews requests for a pardon, lawyers said, but both Goh  
become bitter comparing themselves to the  Chinese, who have controlled the region since 1950. He and Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew are out of the country.  
efforts of others. My open mind applauds the  has failed to get the Chinese government to negotiate the Goh is due back from a state visit to Britain on Friday.  
streakers' efforts.  future of the Himalayan kingdom. Regular Cabinet meetings are held on Thursdays.  
Hearing music coming from the Quad out­side, I ran over to see what all the jazz was about. WOW! Pearl Jam was playing a free  Saudi rights group avoids repression France re-examines its past  
outdoor concert. Monk and the Log Lady start­ NICOSIA, Cyprus PARIS  
ed moshing in the pit and, Eddie Vedder  A human rights group in Saudi Arabia said Wednesday The conviction of Paul Touvier for complicity in crimes  
tapped the keg. "Yeah! Go Irish!" Vedder  it had moved its offices to London following the persecu­against humanity spurred hopes that Frall'Ce is finally  
screamed from the stage. Amazing!  tion of activists campaigning for political freedoms and ready to stare down its wartime past and try a ranking  
equality in the conservative kingdom. The, Committee for official of the Vichy regime. For French Jews, the guilty  
Well, I welcome change, especially in South  the Defense of Legitimate Rights pledged in a statement verdict and life sentence issued Wednesday against  
Bend. Keep an open mind. That's my philoso­ to keep pushing for reforms in Saudi Arabia, whose Touvier, who headed a Lyon militia unit in World War II,  
phy. Because, you just never know what could  human rights record has "become one of the worst" in was justice rendered after a 50-year wait. But the five­ 
emerge from behind the ethanol plant some  the world. The statement, sent by fax from London, said week trial was criticized for not exposing more of the  
day. Never give up hope.  restrictions on freedom of speech and expression, social macabre Vichy era when the French state collaborated  
So, three cheers to David Hungeling and Matt  injustice and government repression were "rapidly push­with Nazi German occupiers. "The combat continues"  
Orsagh. Here's to another successful An  ing the society toward the edge of collapse." "Repressive was the phrase echoing among prosecutors in the Touvier  
Tostal, where even the most anal people man­ measures had been intensified and every individual who case who represent Resistance members and relatives of  
age to loosen up and have a good time. (Hey  made a criticism or called for reform or merely thought of victims. They are now calling for the trial of Maurice  
Mom, get a load of these mud pits!) College is  doing so, was dealt in a manner reminiscent of the meth­Papon, 83, a ranking Vichy official in the Gironde region  
a time to go wild, the work force will come  ods that were pursued by the countries of the Communist who allegedly organized the deportation of 1,690 Jews.  
soon enough, believe me.  bloc," it said. To avoid the instigation of "violent trends," Political groups and anti-racist organizations repeated  
And here's to senior year and all the cool  the group decided to resume its "reform initiative ... from the call. The Touvier trial showed only that proceedings  
surprises possibly lined up.  a place outside the kingdom, where freedom of expres­against a high Vichy official like Papon "is capable of pro­ 
sion is guaranteed." The statement was signed by two of viding the lessons of history that everyone waits for," said  
And here's to the best four years of our lives, people. When life gives you lemons, make  the group's founding members. attorney Gerard Boulanger.  
lemonade and go with it. You can always add a little sugar to make life more bearable. Sometimes what you think will turn out lousy, will actually knock your socks off. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer.  NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, April 21. Thursday, Apri121 Accu-Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.  

~ 
OHIO 
~ 
~ 


FRONTS: 
llndianapoli~ 63° I ''
• ~ 
ILL 
.......-T" ............. ...,..a..,­
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu·Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Assoc~ated Pmss 

~,~,~~~~ i) ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Arlington Heights 52 44 Dallas 82 61 Milford 50 39 Arlama 78 61 Dubuque 74 47 New Fairfield 54 36 Baltimore 60 47 Gary 53 41 New York 56 37 Boston 52 34 Los Angeles 72 58 Philadelphia 56 38 Chicago 55 45 Miami 84 73 Phoenix 98 70 Colombus 58 38 Minneapolis 64 37 St. Louis 65 48 


at The Observer next year? 
Apply now for a position in the production department. 

Call Jackie Moser at 631-5303. for more information. 
holly hunter harvey keitel sam neill 
the Pi an o 

a jane campion film 
rm 

[Rl~~ ~ ....-.:· .. ~ NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:15 & 9:45 CALL 631-7361 FOR TIMES AND DATES FOR ALL CINEMA SNITE FILMS 
The Obselver/Calherine Marciano 
Runners, take your mark 
Junior Ron Fanelli registered runners yesterday for the Joint 5K Run. The Notre Dame Joint ROTC spon­sored event, which begins at 4 p.m., will benefit Hope Rescue Mission. 


Zulus prepare for elections 
THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE PROGRAM FOR JOB HUNTERS AND CAREER SWITCHERS Asystematic approach to the job-hunt and career change. 
RESUME SKILLS • INTERVIEWING SKILLS • 
(9:00 to 11:00 on Tuesday, Thursday) (9:00 to 12:00 on Monday, Wednesday, Friday) 
•
Writing aResume that lands ajob interview. •How to sell yourself in an interview. 

•
Selling yourself in the cover letter. •Do's and Don'ts of interviewing. 

•
Identifying skills and incorporating them · •Tough interview questions into the resume. and how to answer them. 


CAREER SUCCESS IN THE 90'S· (9:00 to 12:00 on Saturday) 
•
Resume skills (overview) •Goal Setting •Dress for Success 

•
Interviewing skills (overview) •Networking/Contact Management 


IP n IL n IU n 25 Hundreds of ingenious ideas and techniques for landing the perfect job! 
CLASS SIZE LIMITED! 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 
ULUNDI, South Africa 
Thrusting fists, clubs and spears into the air, Zulu na­tionalists celebrated the end of their election boycott Wednesday and launched a jubilant campaign for next week's elections. 
The sudden end to the boy­cott left the Zulus only six days to campaign for the April 26-28 elections, the first in the coun­try's history in which all races can vote."Two days would be enough -five minutes even," said Ceblise Khumalo, who traveled more than two hours to Ulundi for an exuberant rally of Mangosuthu Buthelezi's Inkatha Freedom Party. 
"It will be a miracle if we do well in the election," Buthelezi told a crowd of about 30,000 who waited several hours to hear him speak. 
"But your spirit and enthusi­asm give me hope that some­thing miraculous will happen despite our late start." 
Buthelezi agreed Tuesday to end the Inkatha boycott in ex­change for a pledge that the Zulu kingdom will receive con­stitutional recognition. Additional demands for federal­style autonomy will be subject to mediation. 
The agreement raised hopes that political violence between the ANC and Inkatha will diminish. Thousands of people have died in factional fighting between the rival groups in the past three years. 
Inkatha is perhaps South Africa's most tightly knit politi­cal party, and officials said its efficient grass-roots network would make it easier to educate supporters on how to vote on such short notice. 

l.easing Noww for Suntnter Apartments available for your selection. Short Tern~ Leases 2 Bedroom, 2 Bath Units 
Many A•••enif'ies: 
All utilities Included Balconies/Patios Spacious Apartments Indoor Pool & Jacuzzi Central Air Weight Machine 24 Hour Laundry Tennis-Volleyball-Basketball Courts 
For More Information Call 272-1 441 

--------------------------------------------· ---~ --------------~--------------------------------------. 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 21, 1994 
are not everyday purchases. funding until the idea has been able to receive WVFI because "I think it's amazing we can accepted," said Whelan. the AM transmitter is broken. 

Bookstore BOG
sell textbooks for the price we Other issues addressed at the If BOG could determine how 

continued from page 1 
dents are on the bookstore. As with students, the relationship between faculty and the book­store is a marriage of conve­nience. 
"A professor of the University submits a list of book require­ments (before the semester)." said Ratliff. "The bookstore has no voice in the selection of class titles and editions." 
"Whenever possible," he 
do," said Ratliff. "All the text­books are not going to be a New York Times Bestseller." 
Ratliff also said the bookstore offers students goods and ser­vices, such as film developing, health and beauty products and compact discs and tapes at a loss. "We basically sell those at a loss." he said, "for conve­nience. Even the school sup­plies we sell at a loss." 
Still, some students cannot get over book prices. 
continued from page 1 
if its facilities were expanded and it offered more service op­portunities. 
The proposal will now be passed on to the College's se­nior officers for consideration. 
"We are hoping that it will be approved by the senior officers by commencement because we can't research to find additional meeting include support of WVFI's transition to an FM fre­quency. Steve Sostack, station manager of WVFI, requested financial support for BOG to help reach their goal of $10,000 needed to obtain an FM frequency. 
"We have to have the support of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student governments to make this work," said Sostack. 
Currently, Saint Mary's is un­much it would cost to repair the transmitter, the money needed could go towards the actual re­pairs or give the funds to WVFI to help them make the transi­tion to FM radio. 
According to Sostack, if WVFI becomes an FM station it could help Saint Mary's through pub­lic service announcements and possibly a talk show featuring Saint Mary's student govern­ment events. 
added, "we try to get used books first." 
"I've been very satisfied be­cause they tell me, 'Tell us the books you need and we'll get them,'" said Sam Gaglio, assis­tant dean for the College of Business Administration. "They've always been very re­sponsive." 
Timing is as much a problem as proximity. To order books through another distributor in South Bend sometimes takes as long as three to six weeks. Students cannot afford this op­tion when they need books in two or three days. 
Part of the reason the book­store marks up some texts and not others may be because of their scarcity. Ratliff said that engineering and business books 
"When you pay 18 or 20 thousand to go here," said Marion, "and you pay two or three hundred dollars (for books) and you use them for two or three weeks, it seems a little silly to me." 
To Ratliff, it's all relative. 
"They seem to be shocked when they spend $80 (for a book)," he said. "But I think they'll spend a little bit more for a CD player, or for sneak­ers. I bet a college textbook lasts longer than sneakers. Everything's relative." 
Ratliff estimated that a typi­cal student will spend $2500 over eight semesters for books. "The knowledge you acquire from that $2500 is the best in­vestment you'll make in your life," he said. 
interact with the panelists and two years ago," Burke said. other participants via advanced "Notre Dame offers a course


Schools 
teleconferencing equipment. on development within their The symposium will be broad­MSA program ... [and has]
continued from page 1 
cast to sites in St. Louis, helped Catholic schools learn Detroit, Indianapolis, Toledo, about development [in the
director for St. Gregory the 
OH, Belvidere, IL and Newark, past]."
Great Elementary School in DE. The cost of three-day pro­
Plantation, FL. 
gram is $295 for one person, Notre Dame is collaborating $500 for two people from theThe teleconference will allow on the teleconference in "con­same school, and $600 forthe 175 participants, who rep­
tinuation of a symposium on three people from the same
resent 140 elementary and sec­
development held on campus school.
ondary Catholic schools, to 

Don't forget to place your graduation and end-of-the-year classified ads in The Observer before April26. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 

Finishing Four Years 
In early August I will leave the United States to return to work in East Africa. I will live in a parish in Jinja, Uganda, on the shores ofLake Victoria, at the place where the Nile River begins its long northward journey to the Mediterranean Sea. Now, after four years of pastoral ministry here at Notre Dame, I am walking around like a second-semester senior, full of memories and reflections, trying to get ready for a slew ofgoodbyes to students and staff who have made my time here so joyful and enriching. 
I've had a sweet job at Notre Dame, as Campus Ministry's "Director ofSpecial Projects." This job brought the engaging challenge of trying to reach out into areas ofcommon life where pastoral ministry always needs to grow. My main concern has been to work with the staff at the Center for Social Concerns and to search for way~ to more fully integrate the demands offaith and action. I have loved going on retreats with students returning from Summer Service Projects. I have been blessed to listen to graduating seniors, struggling to imagine future ways of maintaining their commitments to justice and peace. I've had fun saying Mass in Campus View and on St. Peter Street. I've relished the opportunity to work with rectors and hall staffs and invite several years' worth of R.A.'s to see their work more clearly as ministry. 
So many people here at Notre Dame work as ministers -the rectors, the academic advisors, the countless helpful secretaries, the personnel in security, the faculty. One very clear hallmark of the "Catholic character" of this place is the Christ-like desire ofso many people to be ofservice to the rest. As a Holy Cross priest sent here on mission, it was a joy to join this shared endeavor. 
Holy Cross religious wherever they go are supposed to do two things, according to our directing documents. As "educators in the faith," we are supposed to work for the building up ofcommunity among people and with God, in this increasingly alienating world, and we are supposed to direct our energies towards the uplifting of the poor and weak. 
Here at Notre Dame we talk so much about community. And we experience it. 
The camaraderie of the classroom adventure, the intimacy ofdormitory life and 
liturgy, the competition of Bookstore Basketball -all these things when done 
rightly give so many here an experience of unity, acceptance, and safety. In the 
warmth and beauty of this protected campus, people can take risks and fall in love, they can try out new ideas and revel in challenging insights. They can support one another. When a zillion people wear the same T-shirt and the 
proceeds go to charity, you at least have the beginnings of community. Many 
friends here will be friends for life. 
The shadow side of the move towards Notre Dame community has always been 
our awkwardness in dealing with those we deem different from ourselves. The 
recent struggles for cultural diversity reveal fears and subtle patterns ofdisregard. 
Difficult issues invite irregular waves ofgoodwill, but sustained creativity seems 
hard to muster. People of color often still feel left outside. 
Issues ofsexuality continue to chip away at our atmosphere of peace and growth. Various programs may try to open up more honest conversation and teaching, but again fears prevent real engagement with specific problems. Most pointedly, the sufferings and suspicions that circle the issues ofsexual orientation continue to defY our desire to be a healing community and "the place where the church does its thinking." 
Perhaps we priests have not heard clearly enough our call to choose the side of the poor and the weak. So much energy must necessarily go into the accumulation of the vast resources needed to sustain a major research university, so much time is required to nurture and shape the brilliant minds ofour extremely talented students, and our own lifestyles have attained such a level ofcomfort and opportunity, that perhaps it is now difficult to make it clear that all we do is ultimately directed towards embracing the poor and improving their lot. Thank God for Don McNeill's efforts at the CSC. Thank God for Monk's desire for diversity and international awareness. Thank God Joe Carey stays up late at night and listens to broken-hearted Dillonites. I guess the evidence is still pretty good that we want to minister and build community. The jury may yet be out on whether we live poorly enough to preach as well as we desire. 
Yet hopefully, the message of this place remains clear and compelling. Notre 
Dame was founded as a mission school, under the patronage of the Mother of Jesus, so that all who brought and found their gifts here would imitate Jesus and use those gifts for the service ofothers, especially those most in need. 
For four years I've been lucky to work with so many great people who are trying 
to make this message come alive.  I hope my returning to Africa does something  
to help in that endeavor.  
Please, let's pray for each other.  
Tom McDennott, C.S. C  



Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. April23  5:00p.m.  Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C  
Sun. April24  10:00 a.m.  Rev. John Coqley, C.S.C  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C  


Thursday, April21, 1994 The Observer. YUGOSLAVIA NEWS page 5 
NATO allies back· U.N. air raid requests Rocket 
By SALLY JACOBSEN 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS, Belgium 

NATO delayed authorizing air raids to protect civilians in U.N.-designated "safe areas" in Bosnia while its military plan­ners design a strategy for such attacks. 
The United States and the 15 other nations in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization signaled willingness Wednesday to grant a U.N. re­quest for authorizing protective air raids. 
But they postponed final approval so military advisers can devise the best way to pur­sue that policy. 
"We hope we'll be able to come to a credible decision within a few days," said Sir John Weston, the British am­bassador to the military al­liance. 
"We are certainly not going to deliver a decision ... which we cannot follow through on, and that is why we want to get this right." 
A decision . to extend air pro­tection to civilians would draw NATO more deeply into the two-year Bosnian war, which has resulted in more than 200,000 dead or missing. 
Until now, NATO planes have been available only to protect 
U.N. peacekeepers from attack and to enforce the U.N.-ordered no-fly zone over Bosnia. 
Air strikes were also threat­ened on Serb positions besieg­ing Sarajevo, a threat that led to a truce in the capital, one of 
the  six  U.N.-declared  safe  
havens.  
U.N.  Secretary-General  

Boutros Boutros-Ghali asked NATO for authority to call in air strikes "against artillery, mor­tar positions or tanks" deter­mined to be attacking civilian targets in all six safe areas. 
He appealed for NATO's help after the Bosnian Serbs refused to halt devastating attacks on Gorazde, a Muslim town in eastern Bosnia. 






The Observer 
is now accepting applications 
Columnists Needed 
Ifyou are studying abroad next year and would like to write a monthly feature column about your respective country for the new Observer Entertainment Magazine, call Bevin Kovalik or Dave Tyler at 1-45~1. Anything goes: culture, fashion, music, social life, strange celebrations, etc. 


STUDENTS! 

Shopping for a new car for after graduation? Then look at this! 
• 
Rates as low as 6.25% APR for a new car and 7.25% APR for a used car. 

• 
Up to 5 years to repay and deferred payments until September, 1994. 

• 
$100 CASH BONUS when your loan is disbursed. 


Students with good credit or no credit qualify, no co-signer needed. Bring your letter of employment. 
0 


NOTRE DAME 

FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Independent of the University of Notre Dame 
~Bosnian Presidency (mostly Muslim) 0 Bosnian Serb • Bosnian Croat 
TUZLA: Industrial city had 132,000 residents before war. More than 60.000 refugees have poured in, mostly Muslims fleeing Serbs in eastern Bosnia. U.N. opened airport with much fanfare in March, but Serbs still shell airfield and town, and aid flights have not begun. Aid supplies for an estimated 400,000 people in the region come from Metkovic, Croatia, by land. 
SREBRENICA: Mainly Muslim town. Officials estimate there were 30,000 people in area before the war, a number now swelled by refugees to 70,000. In April1993, leaders agreed to demilitarization, which is tantamount to surrender of the town. Food mostly comes in by land convoys. Some 600 Dutch peacekeepers in enclave. 

~Bosnia
W"safe zones" 
Under relentless attack from Serbs, Gorazde seems doomed, and the same fate may await the other five U.N.-protected "havens" in Bosnia. 
BIHAC: The last mainly Muslim city in northwest Bosnia. Prewar population of 71 ,DOD has swelled to about 300,000. Surrounded by Croats and Serbs. Serb forces almost daily shell the enclave. Some 1,200 French peacekeepers on hand. Local Muslim leader Fikret Abdic has kept supplies going from all sides in parts of enclaves he controls. His troops have fought Sarajevo 
loyalists since September 1993. 
SARAJEVO: The multiethnic capital in east-central Bosnia, under heavy Serb siege until February, when cease-fire was negotiated and heavy guns withdrawn under threat of NATO air strikes. Up to 150 armed Serbs seized back 18 anti-aircraft guns from United Nations in Sarajevo barracks Tuesday. Prewar population of 526,000 has shrunk to about 380,000 as many residents fled. Airlifts carried in food. Airlift and all other U.N. flights now stopped amid rising tensions with Serbs following NATO air strikes around Gorazde April10 and 11. 
GORAZDE: Mostly Muslim district 32 miles southeast of Sarajevo, under siege almost since war erupted in April1992. Prewar population of 37,000 has mushroomed to 65,000 from refugees fleeing Serb offensives. Under fierce Serb assault for past three weeks, with more than 300 
· dead and more than 1,1 DO injured. Only ahandful of U.N. observers and foreign aid workers remain. 
U.N. 
aid office, Red Cross center, 

U.N. 
observers building and city hospital have all taken severe direct hits in latest fighting. Only sporadic land convoys have gotten through, food mostly airdropped. Last airdrop March 22. 


ZEPA: Mountain enclave 30 miles east of Sarajevo. Prewar population was 6,000, mainly Muslims. Local officials estimate refugees have swelled the population to 40,000, including 8,000 children. Food arrives mostly by sporadic land convoys from Belgrade across Serb-held territory. All such convoys halted since NATO air strikes April1 D-11 around Gorazde caused Serb-U.N. tensions. 
AP/ Wm. J. Castello 
"I SAID I'M LEGAL... 


TRUST ME!" 

Quote from that masked woman: The defender ot drinking rights... 
······LIZ······ Happy 21st 
Love, Mom, Dad, Chris, Jen t Gram 
fire hits hospital 
By SAMIR KRILIC 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia 

Aid workers in Gorazde begged for help Wednesday while· Serb guns rained death on the battered Muslim town. NATO delayed authorizing air raids to protect civilians in Gorazde and other U.N. -de­clared safe havens. 
President Clinton urged NATO to "make the Serbs pay a higher price for the contin­ued violence" by authorizing air strikes to protect Gorazde and the five other U.N. havens. 
He also said the United States, Russia and European allies plan a "major diplomatic initiative" to end strife in for­mer Yugoslavia. "Air power alone will not settle this con­flict," Clinton said. 
The Serbs have openly defied the United Nations and the world community for weeks over Gorazde, promising truces while advancing into the en­clave and shelling the town of 65,000. 
The crisis has stymied efforts to turn a peace in Sarajevo into a wider cease-fire to end the 2­year Bosnian war. 
The Serb stand has been a stinging slap at the United Nations, the United States and Russia. 
In their latest reports, doc­tors and foreign aid workers in Gorazde said Bosnian Serb troops were firing point-blank at the main hospital and raking the eastern town with artillery shells, rockets and heavy ma­chine guns. The onslaught came despite new pledges from Serb leaders to stop "the attacks. 
A rocket slammed into the hospital's emergency room, killing at least 10 people and wounding 15, the reports said. Two more rocket hits caused an undetermined number of casualties at the hospital, and 14 people reportedly died when shells exploded in nearby apartment buildings. 
"This is hell, horror and ter­ror," the hospital's director, Dr. Alija Begic, said in a ham­radio transmission heard in Sarajevo. "This is not war any­more. This is slaughter, mas­sacre." 
He said Serb tanks stood only 100 yards away firing at the hospital, which had its roof blown off Tuesday. 
APRIL 22 FRIDAY 
8:30PM 
STEPAN CENTER 
STUDENTS $3 GENERAL $5 
tickets available at the LaFortune Info Desk 
~ ~--~-~~-~--~-------­
page6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 21, 1994 



FDA implant policy Senate keeps parking rights 
By LARRY MARGASAK Both spoke of the many free health care, free gym privi­Associated Press nights when they furiously leges and cut-rate haircuts. 
affected by documents 
By MARCY GORDON Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Food and Drug Administration officials were prepared to allow silicone breast implants to remain on the market in 1992, andre­versed their policy only after being shown secret documents from a lawsuit, according to a letter from the former chair­man of an FDA advisory panel. 
Sen. Herb Kohl, D-Wis., re­leased the letter Wednesday from Dr. Norman Anderson, a medical professor at Johns Hopkins University who chaired the FDA breast-implant advi­sory panel in the late 1980s. 
FDA spokesman Don McLearn said Anderson "filled in the picture for us .... He showed us a more complete set of docwnents." 
However, McLearn added, "to say he turned it completely around would be going too far." 
McLearn said that when Anderson provided the docu­ments, the FDA already was "on the road to looking at the issue in the way we ultimately did.... We would have gotten there anyway." 
In February 1992, the FDA stripped Anderson of his vote on the advisory panel. saying he was biased. 
At the same time, the agency acknowledged he was largely responsible for getting it to take another look at the implants' safety. 
Anderson also had been high­ly critical of Dow Corning Corp .• a major manufacturer of implants that had been accused of concealing data about safety risks. 
In a letter to Kohl, Anderson said the FDA's sudden reversal came after he confronted agency officials with secret court documents and scientific studies showing the implants were dangerous. 
Before that, he said, FDA offi­cials had not seen the studies and therefore had insufficient evidence to pull the implants off the market. 
"This, of course, is a far dif­ferent story than the story that was reported in the newspa­pers," Kohl told a hearing of the Senate Judiciary subcom­mittee on courts, which he chairs. 
"It appears that if it wasn't for these last-minute revela­tions, silicone breast implants might still be easily available today." 
WASHINGTON 
Congress has eliminated its free health care and gym privi­leges, but the Senate on Wednesday drew the line in the parking lot. It defeated a reso­lution to wipe out lawmakers' free, reserved parking at Washington's National and Dulles airports. 
Before his resolution lost by a 53-44 vote, Sen. John McCain said that declaring World War III "would probably evoke less emotion" from his colleagues. He was right. 
Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo., passionately attacked the pro­posal, declaring it promoted the false impression that lawmak­ers -with some work weeks reaching 100 hours -were "ripping off the country by perks and by pay." 
"When is this Congress-bash­ing going to stop?" asked Sen. Carol Moseley-Braun, D-Ill. 
PRE~LAW SOCIETY 
Annual LSAT Practice Test CUSHING AUDITORIUM 8 a.m. Saturday, April 23 
$5 Fee Required 
dashed from the Senate floor to one of the two airports in sub­urban Virginia, to catch the last plane home. 
McCain, R-Ariz., had a differ­ent view of the 124 close-in spaces at National, and 51 at Dulles, that are reserved for the 540 members of Congress, nine Supreme Court justices and scores of diplomats. 
The parking privilege, he said, "is a perfect example of how out-of-touch the Congress often is with the overwhelming majority of Americans." 
McCain said the parking should go the way of other eliminated congressional perks: 

There are thousands of colleges out there. Fortunately, you made a good choice. Now make the right choice when you leave. Rent a truck from Ryder. 
Ryder makes your move easy. With a convenient toll-free reservation number. Clean, reliable vehicles that are easy to load and drive. Fast processing to speed up check­in and check-out. And a 24-hour Roadside Assistance Line for help along the way. 
So put your education to good use and calll-800-GO-RYDER (1-800-467-9337) 
or call your local Ryder dealerfor special student rates: 
51370 U.S. 33 North 2715 N. Bendix Dr. 219-272-1669 219-277-3550 
Twenty-two Democrats and 21 fellow Republicans sup­ported McCain, who was the only senator speaking for his proposal. 
The resolution was not bind­ing; /it could not have forced the independent Washington Metropolitan Airports· Authority, which runs Dulles and National, to act. 
However, authority spokes­woman Tara Hamilton said "we are happy to extend that cour­tesy" to lawmakers but "if Congress expresses a desire that we no longer extend that courtesy we would follow its wishes." 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music Notre Dame Opera Workshop presents 
Wolfgang .9Lmaaeus :Mozart's 
tifte Marriage of :Figaro 
Garry Gnce, Director 
Friday and Saturday April22 & 23,1994 8:00p.m. Washington Hall Come enjoy the FUN; it's FREE! 
You could rent any truck. 
Then again, you could've gone to any school. · 


We're there when you need us. SM 
1914 Miami 219-289-6721 
l~ <0 <0 A JJ -<a. ~ _, 
2 
~ 
JJ 
CD ::> 
_g 
'5 
" 
" 
5 
iD 
a. 
:; 
S' 
CD 
c 
(/) 
l> >
::> CD 
.0 
c 
~ 
0 
"' 
0 
"' 
;:, 
c 
::> 
~ 
CD 
3 
"'0 
-< 
~ 

Thursday, April21, 1994 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 



Negotiators agree on powers 

By JAMES MARTONE 
Associated Press 
CAIRO, Egypt 

Israeli and the PLO reached agreement Wednesday on transferring civilian powers to Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and Jericho, 




~~J:.~l~t~ 
.! 
delegate said. Shimon Peres 
The agree­ment resolves dozens of dis­putes over how Palestinians will run day-to-day affairs in Gaza and the West Bank town once Israel's army withdraws. But other differences must be resolved before Israel begins pulling out. 
Two of the toughest conflicts -legal jurisdiction and release of Palestinian prisoners -are to be discussed by PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat and Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres at a meeting Wednesday night or Thursday in Bucharest, Romania. 
Peres said the negotiations were "getting close to the end" as he l"eft Israel for the meeting. 

the Council on International Educatiooal Exchange offers you the o~rumity of a lifetime. JUST CAlL(212) 661-1414 EXT. 1426 NOW for your FREE brochure oo how to work legally in Britain, Ireland, France, Gennany, Costa Rica, Canada, New Zealand, and Ausualia. 
CIEE provi<ks the work authorizatioo, a (JOgfiiil handlxd, flight discmmts, alocal resource. center, employer leads, and accormnOOatirn qxions all for just $1ro. Do it for aswmner or after graduatirn or even while studying abrood. 
See adiffcrent culture frun the inside while mhancing yoor resume, ordo it jiN for fun! 

Hit T 

Next To 
Martin~s 
• I I I I 
1 Medium 1 Topping Pizza 

$5.?9 
In Cairo, chief PLO negotiator Nabil Shaath reported Israel had moved closer to the Palestinian demand for legal authority over law breakers in the autonomous Palestinian ar­eas. 
Shaath gave no details on how Israel changed its stand, but added: "What we achieved today makes me feel that next week, almost defmitely, will be the last week of negotiations." 
Negotiations have dragged on since October as the two sides tried to settle details -such as border control, the size of the autonomous areas and the re­sponsibilities of the Palestinian police force -that were vague in the Sept. 13 accord for Palestinian autonomy. 
Two deadlines already have been missed-Dec. 13 for the start of the Israeli withdrawal and April 13 for its completion. But Israeli officials say their troops can be out within days once an agreement is reached. 
Among the 38 categories of civilian control agreed to Wednesday was the trouble­some issue of water, said Jamil Tarifi, who heads the PLO's ne­gotiations on civilian issues. 
He said the agreement means people in the occupied territo­ries "will feel they are coming 

Notre Dame Students 




l!~~a 

Get up to 4 more pizzas for .00 each. 
Expires 5/ 

to close to the end of occupa­tion, and this is the most impor­tant achievement of the Gaza­Jericho accord." 
Water supplies to Gaza's Jewish settlements will remain under Israel's control, Tarifi said. But the amount of water for settlers will not be in­creased. . 
Tarifi said Palestinians would be told the number of wells in settlements and the amount of water used. The PLO has sought figures from Israel on water use since peace talks be­gan in Madrid, Spain, in October 1991. 
Since Israel captured the ter­ritories in the 196 7 Middle East war, it has diverted water from West Bank aquifers to Israel and Jewish settlements. Palestinians want eventual con­trol of West Bank water. 
Other civil issues resolved Wednesday were broadcast channels, cellular telephones, electricity, employment and the treasury, according to Israeli and PLO sources. 
But Tarifi said negotiators left three details for Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin whether the Palestinians would have their own postage stamps, passports and telephone area codes. 

U.S., Korean maneuvers set 
By ROBERT BURNS 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea 
Large-scale war games for tens of thousands of U.S. and South Korean troops will be held this fall unless North Korea drops its objection to full inspections of its nuclear pro­gram, officials said Wednesday. 
On a day when the U.S. and South Korean governments sought publicly to play down the prospect of actual hostilities with the North, officials said they were reinstating plans for the annual "Team Spirit" ex­ercise because North Korea last month blocked inspection of its suspected nuclear arms project. 
There was no word on exactly how many U.S. and South Korean troops would take part in the maneuvers. In past years the exercise has involved more than 100,000 troops. 
North Korea has condemned Team Spirit as a provocation and a central obstacle to set­tling a range of issues with the South and with Washington, including a long-running dis­pute over whether the North is 

Flower Delivery 7 Days 
At!;)' (I ~~th 
Super Saver Prices on Roses 
Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, 
Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
(219)277~1291

5140831 North South Bend, IN 4663 7 Phone Answered 24 hrs. 
e Hut! 




:Out. 
273-9944 
18157 SR 23 
Valid on Carry-Out or Delivery 
2Me I 
I I • •
!2 Topping Pizzas 


i $10.99 
Valid on Carry-Out or Delivery 1 Medium Specialty Pizza AND 1 Medium 1 Topping Pizza 


$11.99 
Expires 5/8/941 


Across From 
Coaches~ 
Valid on Carry-Out or Delivery 
I . FREE 
Order of Breadsticks with a Medium/Large 
Pizza Purchase 
not valid with use of any other coupon 
Expires 5/8/ 
developing nuclear weapons. 
North Korea denies it is building nuclear weapons, but strong doubts persist in Seoul, Washington and elsewhere be­cause the North has refused to go along with International Atomic Energy Agency inspec­tions of its suspect facilities. 
South Korea's chief of combat intelligence, Col. Park Sung­chun, said Wednesday his gov­ernment believes North Korea has accumulated 15 kilograms of plutonium -enough, he said, to build two nuclear weapons. He added that it is uncertain whether any bombs have actually been built, since there is no evidence of bomb testing. 
Also Wednesday, a senior administration official said the United States was interested in resuming direct, but lower­level, talks with North Korea to possibly set the stage for a third round of high-level talks on nuclear and other issues. 
The official, who was in Seoul with Defense Secretary William Perry and spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity, said the administration would set no conditions for resuming the lower-level talks, and that they could happen soon. 
He declined to say whether the North Koreans had expressed an interest in talks. 
The military exercise, "Team Spirit," had been suspended earlier this year after North Korea said it would permit International Atomic Energy Agency inspections of its de­clared nuclear facilities. 
But the March inspection was curtailed by the North, prompt­ing calls for possible U.N. eco­nomic sanctions against North Korea. 
NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 21, 1994 

Claims against Navy reduced 

By ROBERT MACY Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS 

A federal judge dismissed most of the claims against the Navy contained in a lawsuit by five women who said they were sexually assaulted at the 1991 Tailhook convention. 
For the most part the women did not have the legal standing to sue the Navy, U.S. District Judge Philip Pro said in his rul­ing Tuesday. But he did not dis­miss the women's claims against the Las Vegas Hilton, where the convention took place, or the Tailhook organization of current and retired Navy aviators. 
Pro also said the women could pursue their allegations that the Navy failed to protect them from being groped and fondled by drunken aviators. 
Those filing the lawsuit were Suzanne Hallett of San Diego; Lisa Reagan and Marie Weston of Sacramento, Calif.; Judy Mas, Los Angeles; and Rhonda Rama, whose hometown was not available. A trial date for the lawsuit was expected to be assigned later this month. 
The woman who blew the whistle on the scandal, former 
By DAVID DISHNEAU 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Victoria Bennett moved into the Robert Taylor housing pro­ject 16 years ago with her mind made up: This was home. 
In the years since, she has lost a boyfriend to gunfire, seen bullets shatter her windows and struggled to steer her five children and three foster kids past the drugs and gangs wait­ing just outside her door. Still she stays. 
"When I decided to move here, I decided this was the last place," Ms. Bennett says. 
Now, she faces the possibility of police entering her home without warrants to hunt for guns. The Clinton administra­tion proposes clauses in public housing leases to permit war­rantless searches to crack down on crime. 
The White House pitched the plan as a compromise between the Chicago Housing Authority, which has ordered such "sweeps" in the past, and Chicago's U.S. District Court, which last month ruled such searches violate the constitu­tional guarantee against unrea­sonable search and seizure. 
Bennett, 40, doesn't debate constitutional principles. At Taylor, she has learned a sim­ple, practical rule: Stay inside when they're shooting. 
"Right now, everybody's at peace," she tells a visitor to her home, a cramped but clean three-bedroom apartment with cinderblock walls and steel­grated windows draped with sheets. 
"I don't wake up in the morn-Navy Lt. Paula Coughlin, is not suing the Navy but is pursuing a separate lawsuit against the Tailhook group and the Hilton. Her lawsuit is scheduled for trial this summer. 


The five women contend in their lawsuit that the Navy "intentionally attempted to cover up the actions of conven­tioneers." They sought unspec­ified damages on charges of sexual assault and battery, neg­ligence, intentional infliction of emotional distress and punitive damages. 
Pro ruled that people cannot sue the federal government for sexual assault or seek punitive damages from it under the Federal Tort Claims Act. The act outlines the types of claims that may be brought against the government. 
Pro did allow the women to pursue their argument that the Navy "effectively controlled the area" on the Hilton's third floor, where numerous women said they were groped and fon­dled. 
Because many of the suites were occupied by Navy person­nel, the judge ruled it was pos­sible to show they owed a duty to "act reasonably" toward those who "ventured onto the 
(for the summer) 

jNotre Damej 
I I 
u.s. 
33 .______ 
South Bend 
... -··-·-----·­
..,·:H. , 

-" . -----... -. 

Store Your Stuff ! 
premises." 
"There's no question of proof," attorney Shamoon Zakaria, who represents three of the women, said Wednesday. "A Defense Department report confirms the events took place. The question is the immunity of the Navy, and whether it will hide behind that immunity." 
The scandal rocked the Navy from top to bottom, with former Navy Secretary Lawrence Garrett III resigning over it and some 6,000 promotions for Navy and Marine Corps officers being held up as a result. 
Although Pentagon investiga­tors recommended discipline for about 140 Navy and Marine Corps officers who attended the convention, none ever went to trial. About 50 officers received administrative discipline. 
The charges against the last three officers facing courts­martial were dismissed in February by a Navy judge who concluded that questions about the presence of Chief of Naval Operations Frank Kelso II at the convention tainted the pros­ecutions. 
On Tuesday, after a debate about Tailhook, the Senate voted 54-43 to allow Kelso to retire as a four-star admiral. 



Chicago 'sweeps' cause concern among project residents 
ing and say, 'Ooh, I wonder if they're going to be gang­banging today. I just keep the faith." 
But late last month, the 92­acre complex was hostage to five days of gangbanging ­shootouts among drug-dealing gangs. 
Police recorded more than 300 reports of gunfire. Three people were killed in the shad­ows of the 16-story buildings that stand like giant tombstones beside the Dan Ryan Expressway on Chicago's South Side. 
Bennett still has two teen-age daughters and a 6-year-old son, Printes, at home, along with the foster children -Debra, 10, Michael, 7, and Laura, 3. Out of the nest are Tanya, 20, a col­lege freshman, and Larry, 22, who lives in Waterloo, Iowa. 
She supports the weapons sweeps-"Too many little kids 
getting shot," she says -but believes the best way to avoid trouble is to "keep your busi­ness to yourself and don't get in other people's business." 
She has never owned a gun but sympathizes with those who 
NATIONAL SECRETARY'S WEEK IS APRIL2S·29 
rfWmember your Secretary with $lowers .!Prom 
Country jl[orists ~ Gifts 
(%19) Z91·3937 ttosos u.s. 31 South j VISA j IIaccepted South Bend, IN 4W.J:4 
feel threatened enough to use 16-year-old Tiffany headed for one."I don't say it's right -it's her after-school job at a not right -but you've got a drycleaner. right to protect yourself," she The children are forbidden to says. linger on the cracked concrete 
Her apartment buzzed with playground where gang mem­activity after school one day bers hang out, but they run er­last week as the kids rushed rands, unaccompanied, to the through their home"":ork and nearest store. 
.-------------------------.. 


CLIFF ERIKSON Tonight! ~,)JA1A. 
Catch his "( ' ~ 
Last ··CLUB·· 
Show ~ . ~ Of the year! 
· fVl 0 





~~M. ·s
at the llll torage
Depot 

DD
'! Edison


iOi.-------. 
c ~ m 
McKinley Hwy. 
n I I on 
McKinley 






VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 21, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters 

Managing Editor  Business Manager  
John Lucas  Joseph Riley  
News Editor·............................... Sarah Doran  Advertising Manager............................. Eric Lorge  
Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry  Ad Design Manager......... : ............ Ryan Maylayrer  
Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser  
Accent Editor...............................Mary Good  Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan  
Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall  Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig  
Saint Mary's Editor............... Elizabeth Regan  Controller ..............•...................... Krisren Martina  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns presenr the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900I 8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Production  631-5303  E-Mail  Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Unix  observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Many living holy lives outside the priesthood 
Dear Editor: 
I recently attended the ordinations of my friends at Sacred Heart Basilica. All who attended will agree that it was in­deed a beautiful ceremony and a tremendous experience to see these fine young men ordained to the ministry of service in the priesthood. Since I was in the seminary formation program while an undergraduate, I am especially grateful to the Congregation of Holy Cross for providing me with a strong 
'Griffin perpetuates a distorted notion that [sacramental] priesthood is the ultimate expression of divine service and that noth­ing else comes close to it. What I found to be particu­larly disturbing was his statement that "nothing else as important has happened at Notre Dame since last 
year's ordinations." between humans? Isn't anyone examin­ing Truth through the process of educa­spiritual foundation which sustains me tion? in my marriage and in my work. While I appreciate the significance of During my visit to campus, I picked up the bestowing of the Sacrament of Holy 
a copy of The Observer and read Father Orders, it is my belief that there is valid­Robert Griffin's weekly column entitled ity of God's eternal presence in other "Ordination is a Powerful Symbol." In ways. It seems, however, that Griffin this article, Griffin perpetuates a dis­does not recognize these as being torted notion that [sacramental] priest­important. I was always under the hood is the ultimate expression of divine impression that there were other service and that nothing else comes Sacraments, which, when celebrated, 
close to it. recognized God's loving grace in all of What I found to be particularly dis­creation. I also thought that there were turbing was his statement that "nothing numerous other ways outside the walls 
else as important has happened at Notre of church that important activities were Dame since last year's ordinations." If occurring: retreats, service work, rela­this statement is true, it is a tragedy! Is tionships, etc. 
everyone a ND comatose? Does every­Maybe those aren't so important, but one just stay in their dorm room watch­can they be written off when compiling a ing television? Are there no interactions 
hierarchical list of important events in 
DOONESBURY 
ANO IAJHO IS
50M£0N& QUIETLY 57EP5 
the life of a community? According to Griffin, the "defining role It is fitting that recognition be given to a priest has is ... making Christ's grace 
the ordination of priests, but such recog-available to every loser he meets." I in­vite my fellow "losers," those not ordained. to reflect on the importance of 
'while I appreciate the our work in the building of the Kingdom of God.
significance of the 
As we do so, it is my hope that just as bestowing of the Sacrament Griffin welcomed the new priests to "the ordained state with hope and love," we
of Holy Orders, it is my 
can welcome Griffin to the reality of the 
belief that there is validity of 
Catholic Church with faith and respect God's eternal presence in as we approach the Twenty-First Century.
other ways.' 

nition should not be limited to them for DANIEL LIZARRAGA there are far too many who are living Notre Dame Class of 1989 holy lives of service outside of the priest­Austin, Tx. hood (by choice or by exclusion). 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
NO, NO, IT'5JOHN­


fROM TH/3 SHA[)()t!JS, .. IT, MARl<~ 
IT~ YWR. ~ON1I
tuH0'5 STAND­W YOU 5£!3H/M, MARJ<2 
FATHER. TtL.L YOU.1 
''Mygrandfather was a
ING !3CSII?E3" aJHAT'5H& Ht'5{f}M&
/ 
I [)()... I5EE 

/YOU~ P.JtARING~ TO... TO 
very insignificant
Hllr1 IN 7H& 

I ORAFT 
MC<JNLIGHT/ 

\ Mf31 \ 
man, actually. At his funeral his hearse followed the other cars." 
-Woody Allen 

----~--~-~---,---~-~~~-~~-----~-~----­


ACCE-NT 
page 10 Thursday, April 21, 1994 

The Bands don't stop here 
Why don't the big shows come to Notre Dame? 
iieii-tile-seiifors-oYFi94-look-back'-on-ih-efrfifi-ai"Year-
W !~:~~~~~: ~~~~~!:~!f ~~~~~~!~::~~~~:!?:~:~~~~~~: :~:: 
··· bitter taste will undoubtedly sink in. After the first 
L.s-ev_e_n_m_o_n.~,_tlis -of'SCiio-o-1:----------------------------Lori-6 ;8 ri en~-coiiege three fairly good shows promotion representative came to Stepan Center, By ROB ADAMS at Polygram records of and although not as many .S.enior Music Critic Detroit, thinks that big 
concerts had been booked as anticipated, it was not a pathetic situation by any means. 
But now as the year ends, a dark void clouds any impressive memories of a successful year for concerts. 
The traditional, end-of-the-year AnTostal concert was supposed to end the year with a bang. The SUB Music Committee had decided on the headliner band they wanted for the fateful show-The Violent Femmes. But due to a short­age of money along with a mood-swing on the part of the band members, the committee's final, feasible hopes were thrashed as they gave their final answer-"No thank you." 
As a result, the people here will not get to see the traditional AnTostal Concert this year. Who's to blame? The music committee worked feverishly all year, came up with three solid shows, and then tried every negotiable option with The Violent Femmes. 
Should they have just booked a small­
' Notre Dame wants more 
shows? Wants bigger shows? First build a bigger facility, then move as far away from Chicago as possible. 
Dennis McNally, promoter for the Grateful Dead 

_________......::::..:.::::;~::..:....:=::..:::.... 
er band which would have produced questionable ticket sales? Should they be budgeted with more money at the beginning of the year? Are the students at fault for not generating enough rev­enue because they did not even come close to filling Stepan Center for two out of the three shows? Have bands come to view Notre Dame as the plague? 
Does Notre Dame have a bad reputa­tion? Or is it because of Notre Dame's South Bend location, where the most famous family is the Studebakers and the number of downtown blocks can be counted on two hands? 
Bethany Riddle, head of the SUB Music Committee for the 93-94 school year seems to think so. 
"We're in South Bend, Indiana. It's a small town. Who wants to play in South Bend? It costs a lot of money to put on a show. If a band like Guns-N-Roses came, they would have to play a big venue. One in which they would have to count on people from Indianapolis and Chicago to come up. So why wouldn't they just hold concerts in Indianapolis and Chicago in the first place?" she asked. 
Dennis McNally, promoter for the Grateful Dead, agrees. 
"Notre Dame wants more shows? 

Wants bigger shows? First build a big­
ger facility, then move as far away from 
Chicago as possible," he said. 
Ryan Hallford, the 94-95 head of the SUB Music Committee, feels that it is a monetary problem. 
"We don't have enough money to pull 
in names. Our concerts are sporadic 
and we need to bring in some big bands, 
but it's all a money thing." 
He also cites the difficulty to book the 

J.A.C.C. as a problem. 
"The administration has been hard to work with when it comes to J.A.C.C. shows," he said. 
shows don't belong at uni­
versities. 
"College markets are better for beginning bands. They are more apt to accept a new band and take a chance in going to a show by a band they've never heard of. Plus, college kids don't have a lot of cash to throw around so they would appreciate the smaller, less expensive shows. 
Brett Seinberg, who handles the col­lege shows through APA Booking, said it depends on a lot of factors. 
"It depends on what type of market is around, what type of music you want, and the routing factors of the band. It differs from university to university," he said. 
Looking beyond the bigger shows, Notre Dame's problem is that, in the clutch moments, we can't always book the band that we want. What prevents us from booking that band for a Stepan show, the size of show we are used to? 
"Booking is a radical process," McNally said. "You're talking about negotiating sixty dates for a minimum amount of money at each venue. For a lesser band, you need to evaluate the availables and balance them against the band and how hard they are willing to work." 
According to Seinberg, it's not a mat­ter of making the campus more attrac­tive to the band through the venue or past ticket sales. He feels that the bot­tom line is that universities should not have problems getting bands, regardless 
of location. 
"A lot of factors can arise that screw up shows," he said, "it happens to us all the time. There are a lot of things involved in setting up a show. The best thing you could do is be flexible and try to reschedule." 
O'Brien feels that the "chemistry" of population, radio airplay, and amount of retailers that have been selling the music consistently is a much more con­stant as well as overlooked combination of factors. 
"Plus, something else the concert­goers don't realize is that if the artist's label has an office in a city it is very likely that the artist will perform in that city," she said. 
Riddle maintains that it arises from problems other than Notre Dame's name or history of concerts. 
"It's not a problem of reputation," she said, "other bands' outlook towards Notre Dame is not a problem." 
What can be done, in a situation in which flexibility is not an option, but rather a problem? How can Notre Dame deal with unforeseen factors when they finally surface, such as The Violent Femmes situation? 
"Stay in touch with your promoters," McNally advises, "make sure you know when anything new comes up." 
Debra Harner of Mesa/Bluemoon Recordings feels as if the committee's negotiating strategy with The Violent Femmes had something to do with them turning us down even though they were eventually offered something in their price range. 
"Agents are very testy sometimes," she said, "and if you nickel-and-dime them, they might turn on you. The band is sometimes the same way. It's best to check on what they have been getting at other campuses with the same venues and offering that up front." 
Others, such as Hillary Siskind of EMI Records, were simply baffled at The Violent Femmes' snubbing of the AnTostal show, and felt that a rejection of this magnitude should not happen. 

"I don't know why they would not want to play there. I don't know why they would pass you up if you had the monetary means and traveling was not a problem," she said. 
Lastly, all roads seem to lead to one problem: ticket sales. Had more tickets been sold at the Samples and Big Head Todd shows, more revenue would have been available, and the committee would have had more buying power, which would have left them with more options for bands in the first place. If the problem was due to low attendance as well as high ticket prices, the prob­lem could be easily remedied. However, the Stepan shows have had traditionally lower prices than most of the other shows on the tour. How can more tick­ets be sold? 
Lisa Gladfelter, of DGC Records was flabbergasted at the idea of cheap col­lege shows with low ticket sales. 
"I really don't know. Selling beer would help but I guess you can't do that at your concerts. I have never heard of with such low prices and low ticket sales at the same time at a university," she said. 
Hallford thinks that in order to sell a lot of tickets for smaller shows featuring newer bands, Notre Dame's musical media should be a bit more visible. 
"We don't have MTV on campus and we need our campus radio stations to become more appreciated," Hallford said. 
In essence, a large caldron of prob­lems cause the stench surrounding the Notre Dame concert scene. Although some of the changes are impossible to achieve, many of them can be solved by more participation from the student body. A concert is an event that can be enjoyable because of the experience it can give, regardless of the band involved. A band that the majority of the student body knows may make it easier to sell tickets, but that does not necessarily mean it is easier to book. 



Alook back 
A comparison of the concert scene in South Band between 1874-71 and today 
1974-75 1993-94 
:.;':~): ~-,.~::· 
America 
Gin Blossoms · Elvis Presley Garth Brooks Yes Big Head Todd & the Aerosmith 
'+ Monsters 
Rush M li h . 'd d
,.,.,,....,:,·.=···===·==·===··· .-=.=.=~==··.·=E 
··... ii;!4!jWi i,Hr e ssa t eri ge an . The Jackson Five ......;:_:: 
::·.~-~~~·: ' 

Matthew Sweet 
Santana The Samples
G~rdon Lightfoot 


ACCENT
Thursday, April21, 1994 page 11 
MUSIC REVIEW JUSTIN COLE 




-rhe swinger sound 
Combustible Edison, purveyors of cocktail swank 
"Greetings, friends, and wel­
J~stin's Rating
come! Welcome to the fervered I ....,,., .. ~ . ,, , and opulent world of 
.~()mbustible Edison Combustible Edison. We've 
I; Swinger (SUB-POP)
been waiting for you! By read­ing these words, you are declaring your allegiance to the 

'***** 
Fiye stars (out of 5)
Few, the Discriminating...the Fabulous. You are the Bon­
which are instrumentals or
Vivants and Demi-Mondaines with sparse vocals. 
who have tasted Life's bitter 
The album runs the musicaland sweet and return time and 
gamut of emotions from the
again for an ever-deeper high energy excitement ofdraught. ·Citizens of the 
"Impact!", to the mellow lamen­Cocktail Nation, relax and be tation of "Cry Me A River" andcounted! 
even the sense of unabandoned"The I in I, Swinger . . .is YOU! 
amusement of "Breakfast at
• And so, for your delight and Denny's" and "Spy vs. Spy."
edification, we Edisonians take pleasure in presenting an How this unique and quirkyunguided tour through a dozen album got released on SUB-POPstations of Fabulousness-from we may never know but theyLa Dolce Vita to the luxuriant are definitely lucky that it was.
darkness of the human heart to the savage dawn in the far­I, Swinger is great in that it
flung archipelagos of 
enthrallingly grabs your atten­Hypnotica. • We think you'll tion when you want it to and
find every track, whether 
steps fluidly into the back­
swingingly sophisticated or 
ground when you don't. It is
exotically primitive, to be 
the. perfect mood music for aCombustibly Edisonic!" 
night on the town and those who want to transform them­The album; I, Swinger; con­selves into sultans of swing. 
By JUSTIN COLE Peter Dixon-The Keyboard; Combustible Edison occupy the tains covers of "Cry Me A Music Critic The Millonaire-Guitar; and same suave cocktail music River" and Kurt Weill's 
It is sure to please the 
Aaron Oppenheimer­world as Martin Penny, Henry "Surabaya Johnny" in addition 
swinger in everyone. 
Vibraphone and Trap Drums; Mancini and Harry Breuer. to several originals, most of It looks as if the folks from seem to relish drinking mixed The Christmas are back in busi­drinks of varying degrees of The disc is filled with organ, 
T"'F":E': "X>lR.I~: 
ness again, this time as the pur­flamboyance and singing about stand-up bass, vibes and silky veyors of the new Swinger the glorious nature of life. sweet Julie London like vocals. 
The Combustible Edison Cocktail*
movement otherwise known as 
il oz. Brandy • 1 oz. Campari • 1 oz. Fresh lemo?l juice
Combustible Edison. Despite being on the SUB-POP Your opinion of this will label this group is not grunge, correspond with your tolerance 
][n a shaker full of cracked ice, combine Campari and Their name deriving from a indie-rock or anything similar. for lounge swank. Me, well I 
lemon juice. Shake and strain into a chilled cocktail cocktail drink, the group mem­say "Viva Las Vegas" and play 
glass. Heat brandy in a chafing dish. When wann,bers, all known by pseudonyms: Rather, they are the sort of it over and over. 
ignite the brandy and pour in a naming stream into Miss Lily Banquette-Chantuese, thing that will instantly appeal 
the cocktail glass. Vive le Cocktail Revolution! •I[the Melodica, Drums, and to anyone especially those who Perhaps the Edisonians, as 
brandy is chilled and shaken rather than ignited, the 
Provocative Percussion; have the spirit of the elegant they like to call themselves, ex­
drink is known as "The Edisonian." 
Nicholas Cudahy-Bass; Mr. swinger inside of them. plain it best: 


By ELIZABETH OSWALD recognize Earth Day '94. T-Shirts, envi­Accent Writer ronmentally aware activities and games will be highlighted. 
Hunting for something to do before the finals crunch? Look no further than The ND Alumni Association is sponsor­Fieldhouse Mall. From 12 noon to 6 ing the dunk tank, which will run both 
p.m. this Thursday and Friday, the sixth Thursday and Friday. Celebrities to be Annual St. Ed's Carnival as part of the soaked include Tim Ruddy, David 1994 An Tostal celebration will provide Hungeling, Matt Orsagh, several Irish many activities for relieving any "pre­Cheerleaders, rectors and faculty. Both final" anxiety. days will also feature a moonwalk for 
Normally scheduled concurrent with those who seek a "celestial high". the Fisher Regatta, the Carnival The Alumni Association also has changed its date and location in order to joined in the committee's efforts to attract a larger audience than in previ­enhance attendance by contributing two ous years. Chairman Chris Bane hopes General Admission tickets for the '94 that the Carnival's junction with An Notre Dame/Michigan game. The tickets Tostal will enable the Carnival to "feed will be raffled off on Friday. Tickets for off of the same number of people in a the raffle can be purchased on both central place. Thursday and Friday for one dollar. 
Saint Mary's Hill wasn't ideal for a Other highlighted items include an auto­large draw of people. If Fieldhouse mall graphed Lou Holtz football, several gift works this year, perhaps it will become certificates to local restaurants, Camelot a permanent place for the Carnival in Music and Foot Locker. All proceeds the future." from the raffle will be donated to vari­
The non-profit activity sponsored by ous charities chosen by the Carnival St. Ed's is working in collaboration with committee. the '94 An Tostal Committee as well as "The '94 Committee has put in many 
organizations and dorms from Notre hours planning this year's Carnival," Dame and Saint Mary's. Approximately said publicity chairman Kevin Dolan. 15 dorms from ND and Saint Mary's are "We have a lot of new activities this year participating in this years Carnival. in addition to those from the past. 
Each dorm has constructed its own We're hoping for a large turn out. booth to offer games to the carnival Perhaps with the An Tostal publicity 

.. 
goers. Keep an eye out for the return of we'll have that chance." the "Farley Fish Toss" and Zahm Hall's Support fellow students by planning to Basketball Toss. attend this year's Charity Carnival. it 
On Thursday, the Carnival is working might be just the thing to fill a dull with the Recycling Irish in an effort to Thursday or Friday evening. 
L ­
page 12 The Observer • CLUB SPORTS 

Leading them to this finish In the spring, practices start­to take eighth in the solo event. were McGowan and All­ed to intensify and the Irish got Midwest juniors Jim Ludwig, to test their skills at three mid­"We had a great season," said Brian Hitz, Matt Meko, and western meets. Finally, the sea­Kelleher. "We've always been Stephen Mandella. son drew to a close Sunday a small team, but this year 
"Confidence has been build­with a 9-5 win at home against more people came out. It's al­ing among the players during the Spartans. ways nicer to work with more 
Thursday, April 21, 1994 
The Observer/ Michael Hungeling The rugby team, after dropping a match last week against Fort Wayne, wilt play Ball State this weekend. 
people." 
Besides competing in nation­als, the Irish went on to take first in the Northwestern Invi­tational and fourth in the Col­lege Association tournament. 
"We're going to lose three seniors off this year's team, but next year is filled with possibili­ties," added Kelleher. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 
Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
L.....-_N_O_T_IC_E_s_ __.l 
$$ FOR BOOKS @ PANDORA'S everyday but sunday until 5:30pm 233-2342 ND ave & Howard 
Attention graduating seniors whose parent and grandparent are Notre Dame alums: The Notre Dame Publications office needs to take photos of multigenerational alum family members during Commencement weekend. The photos are to be used in an upcom­ing University publication. Please call Marilyn or Paul at631-5337. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST-my precious gold loop ear­ring somewhere between Lewis & Cushing, or Cushing & 02, or 02 & Lewis on Sat nile (4/16). SENTI­MENTAL VALUE--PLEASE RETURN ASAP. x3766. --thanks 
CASH REWARD! 
'92 alum looking to recover "lost" 
cellular phone missing from car 
parked behind Grace Hall late Sat. 
night. Call291-3018 ask for Roy 
LOST: 
Green Columbia Jacket (outer 
shell) prob in SOH. Please help! 
call Brian at x1130 
Anyone who attended the SIEGFRIED SYR on Saturday: Someone mistook my camera for his/hers. If you have it (and pic­tures of people you don't know!) PLEASE call 634-4823. $$$$$$$$BIG REWARD$$$$$$$$ 
Lost: 
Watch. 
Brown corded leather band. 
Compass housing. 
If found call 4-3233 and ask for 
Dav. 
LOST -Gold necklace w/ cross. Btwn Debartalo and Rock on Thurs. 4/14 after 10:30 am. Call Susan x1713. 
LOST -Gold rose brooch on 4/15 in or outside of Sacred Heart Church. Sentimental value. REWARD! Call 1-6411. 
LOST: LADY'S BLACK LEATHER 
PURSE WITH GOLD TRIM ON 
SATURDAY NIGHT AT WASHING­
TON HALL. 
REWARD. 
CALL 631-6557. 
Lost-Tl81 Calculator 
Lost in Fitzpatrick on Monday 
night. If found • please call 
Vince at x1871. Reward. 
Lost-Tl81 Calculator on Monday 
night in Fitzpatrick. If found, please 
call Vince at x1871. 
L-1_w.;_:AN_T_E_D_ _. 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up to $2000+/mo. on cruise ships or land-tour companies. World travel. Summer & full-time employment available. No exp necessary. For info call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 
need graduation tickets bad call Harry 233-5130 
LOVING CARE FOR 2 CHILDREN 
(AGES 4 + 1) & HELP WITH SOME HOUSEHOLD CHORES, 9-12 HRS./WK. MAY 1-LATE JULY. OWN TRANSP. + EXP. REQ'D. 
233-6657. 
SUMMER/PERMANENT FULL TIME $300/WEEK. WORK FOR 
ENVIRONMENTAL AND CON­SUMER RIGHTS. WK HRS 
1:30-10:30 M-F. FOR INTERVIEW CALL 232-7905 
ESPRESSO BARTENDER Outgoing coffee-lovers needed for area's finest espresso bar, the Tortoise & the Hare Cafe. Caii256­JAVA & leave message. 
Need female roommate for Oak Hill Condo 6/1 -8/? call jo x4003 
On and off campus newspaper car­riers, branch managers, sales per­sonnel needed for fall 94 semester. Contact City News Service Inc., 232-3205 or 288-9361 for informa­tion or application. 
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN­TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 ext A29. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Earn up to $8,000+ in two months. Room & Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary! Call (206)545-4155 ext A5584 
SUMMER HELP IN SOUTH BEND. ND or SMC student to care for 3 children June 13 -Aug 5, Mon thru Fri. Must have good references and love kids. Non smoker. Call7-10pm 708-524-9386 
CHILD CARE-Caregiver needed for the summer. 16 hrs per wk for 4 yr and 20 mo. old girls. Ref required. Call Lisa at 273-4575 
Need help w/ summer rent? 
3 students need housing 
6/15-7/25 
Call Kristin @4942 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­0219 SUMMER NANNY for ND family on Chicago N. Shore. Live-in/out. End MAY -AUG. Exper w/ newborn &tod­dler a plus. lnclds NJ beach vaca­tion w/ family. call708-433-1628 
Need roommate-Turtle Crk -for summer call Chrisx4085 
Living in MADISON this summer? Looking for roommate (s) to share sublet Cybelle X2949 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF CAMPUS. 272.0615 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153 
COLLEGE PARK 
CONDOMINIUMS -1/4 mile from library -New appliances -2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms -Washer & Dryer units -Large closets -Covered parking -Security System -Large balconies ---~Units now available­
$660 per month ..... Going Quickly!! ***"'•*"'*CALL: 272-0691 .......... 
NEEDED: 
people to sublease a Turtle Creek 
Townhouse for the summer 
Please call Amy or Krista x2731 
For Rent: ONE ROOMMATE off campus. Please don't make me live in my car. Call Chris 288-5282. 
Summer break is just around the corner! Call Kelly or Judie at 291­1414 to reserve a Hertz Penske truck to make your move home eas­ier. 
For Rent -Diamond Lake Duplex Available Sept.-May All new -furnished. June thru August weekly rental Must see -beautiful view. Call1-616-445-8492 on Sundays only. 21636 Howell Dr. Cassopolis, Ml 
HOME BASED BED/BREAKFAST ALLIANCE offers local family com­fort for all ND activities. 
(219) 271-0989, 24-hr. answering machine. 
2 BDRM. APT. NEAR ND. $430/mo. + UTIL. NICE QUIET AREA. TAKE OVER LEASE FROM 6/1/94. 273-6187 or 631-5445. 
SUMMER STORAGE 
Convenient, secure off-campus storage in private home. 
Reasonable rate 287-0918 
FOR SALE 
SELLING STEREOS IS A LOT OF FUN!I Part time; 20-30 hr. weekly Min.: $5.00 an hour plus 3% com­mission. Full time; 5 days a week 5% commission against draw. Apply in person at; Alltronics 3915 Grape Rd. Mishawaka 
TWIN BED FOR SALE Call Tracy 273-6401 
FURNITURE FOR SALE ­CALL 273-6032. 
BAR for sale. 8 fl. long, finished oak wood. Perfect for off-campus apt/ house. 4 stools included. Make offer. Call Mick, 2n-4825. 
83 Escort, 76K mi. New tires, batt., exh. Good, dependable transport. $850. 2n-4339. 
TWIN BED FOR SALE PRICE NEGOTIABLE CALL LEAH AT 273-3928 
Furniture for Sale couch, twin bed, dresser & more Free Summer Storage call4-4463 
Great Couch!!! Low Price! Must Sell! Best Offer! Navy Blue and Very Sleepable. Call x1143 
Three single lofts, getting bunks so must sell. $40 apiece 080. One year old, built by carpentar Dad !I call x11 01 ask for Sean 
College Park Condos 2BR, 2 Bath, w/ appliances $59,900. Send info to 
P.O. Box 4075, South Bend, IN 46634 
1992 Yamaha Seca 11600cc. only 1500 mi. Excell. cond. $2800 call Bryan -1 890 
1989 Ford Bronco II 4wd 5-speed. Remaining ESP warranty. Excel!. cond. $6500 call Bryan-4-1 890 
For Sale: 
Blue sectional couch and kitchen table with 5 chairs. Excellent condition call 282­2072. 
Shop Early for next year's furnishings. 
83 T-bird Turbo Coupe A/C Sunrf Pwr every1hg Bestoffer634-4937 
For Sale: U-shaped coach, tan chair, entertainment center, gas grill, oak table and chairs, cordless phone, lamp and more. Perfect for OC living. Call 273-6553. 
For Sale: brand new bed and oak desk. Call 273-3920 and ask for Keith. 
Airline tix Fe. RT from S Bend to All. $140. Good til Aug 94. 271-7280. Lve msg. 
1991 lsuzu Trooper II (silver) 30K; 4WD; AM/FM-Cass.; A/C excellent condition!! MUST SELL! !I $9400 call 232-4736 
TICKETS 
For Sale: 2 Phil Collins fix 7/20/94 Rosemont Horizon Sell at face value!! 4-2671 
I need 2 graduation tickets. My grandparents are coming to ND from LA for the first time. Call Elisa at 272-8563. 
I need extra graduation tickets ­please call Brian at 4-4204 
Helpl I need graduation tickets. 
Please call Tracy-2377 
Help! I need graduation tickets. Please call Mike-1651 
HELP!! I need extra grad. tix 
call PIER 273-4909 
PERSONAL 
•••••••••••••KATHARSIS••••••••..•• 
APRIL 15&16 at CHEERS on 31 in Roseland. APRIL 29 at Midway Tavern (MARTHA'S). DON'T miss 
out. Fun starts at10.For more information on gigs and parties call237-9702. Ask for LENNY. •••••••••••••KATHARSis•••••••••••• 
Adopt -Happily married couple wants to give your newborn love & security while easing your decision. Expenses paid. Jean & Steve 1­800-362-8856 
ADOPTION -Let us raise your baby as you would -with love, security and smiles. Please call Conni and Mark 1-800-392-0618 
I'IT' iving"in D.C. this summer and am 1 need of an APARTMENT and ROO VIMATES. If interested call Kate< I X3415. 
J U N 0 R S 
U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY 
OF RESUME AND DISK 
N TO CAREER & PLACE­
MENT SERVICES FOR 
RESUME BOOKS NOW! 
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. R 
s 
FRIENDLY WASHINGTONIAN needs ride home after Senior Week. Will share expenses and 
driving. Call x4293 
DID YOU KNOW the last Observer is 4/27? It is not too early to place your farewell classifieds to seniors & your friends. You can type in your ad now until 4/26 between Bam to 3pm Mon-Fri. There will also be a graduation Observer on 5/13. Deadline is 5/12. We are on the 3rd floor in LaFortune. 
-ST. ED'S CHARITY CARNIVAL­APRIL 21/22 NOON-6PM FIELDHOUSE MALL 
Dunk a celebrity!! WIN GA'S for NEXT YEAR'S MICHIGAN GAME and OTHER COOL STUFF in the RAFFLE!! BE CHARITABLE!II 
-ST. ED'S CHARITY CARNIVAL-
Antostal Trivia 
1) What year did Rudy Ruettiger graduate from ND? 
2) What is George Burns' present age? 
3) Who works the Thursday night after midnight 
(12:00 am) shift as Hesburgh Library monitor? (Clue on the library doors) 
4) How tall is the Golden Dome, including Mary, in inches? (Take a tour of the University) 
5) Who won the 1994 Fisher Regatta? First 5 people with all correct answers get an Antostal T-shirt. Next 1 0 people with all correct answers get an Antostal cup. Return entries to SUB office, 2nd floor LaFortune, by 5pm Today. GOOD LUCK! 
In a hurry ... 
don't worry. 
FAX IT! 
at 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
NEW LOWER PRICES! 
thank you Mary, St. Jude and Holy Spirit for favors granted-
Conrgatulations Trish Nolan !I 
We laughed, we cried, it was better than Cats, it was better than ET!! 
WHERE'S YOUR MOSES NOW??? 
"Please, just get me home as 
quickly as possible and with 
as little motion as possible. 
Thank you ..." 

Thursday, April 21, 1994 'ne Observ;r • CLUB SPORTS page 13 

Water polo hopes for success in new conference ­

Photo courtesy of Kathleen Bailey 
Sophomore Brian Wood (dark cap) is a weapon for Notre Dame. 
"Tired of the same old summer job?" 
0 Earn money and gain valuable work experience in some of Chicago's top businesses. 
0 Enhance your computer skills and develop key networking resources. 
0 The Choice for Staffing offers the best benefits in the temporary industry. 
For more information call The Choice for Staffing at (312) 372-4500. 
Hosted by 
APRIL 22, 10 P.M. ON PBS. CHECK LOCAL LISTINGS. John Chancellor 
...they need 5omething that 5ound5 ~! The media i5 One network a55Ume5 if the a megaphone
TY
5tory i5 about a big company, for thi5 kind I pray
take5 it5
the company mu5t be wrong. of company. to God 
re5pon5ibility 
thi5 5tory 
more 5eriou5/y come5 outNo evidence, than 
in the 
no background, November 
no data, no nothing. 
\ 
Underwritten by 
Price Ttitterhouse 
Clflc•r"IS•"Frouu,lu-o 
Wuhl"f'""-D.C. 

'~~~~~~!~t~ot!~r~uct~~~~!.!~ I 
neered corn. It spins the story one way. Consumer 'advocates' spin it another ... Guess who's caught spinning in the middle? Price Waterhouse invites you to join us for this fascinating episode of On the Issues. Watch leaders from the worlds of business, government, academia and the media think out loud as they struggle at the crossroads where moral dilemmas and tough business decisions collide. 
Presented by Maryland Public Television. Produced by Alvin H. Perlmutter. Inc. 
By JOE VILLINSKI Spons Writer 
At the end of the 1993-94 wa­ter polo campaign, the Irish find themselves in a re-struc­turing stage that will help them to progress to a higher level. Next year, the Irish will be join­ing the Mid-American con­ference with schools the likes of Bowling Green and Eastern Michigan. 
"It will make the scheduling of meets much easier," said tri­captain Brian Coughlin. "In a conference, meets will automatically appear on the schedule." 
Because they are a club sport, scheduling is a problem due to the fact that most other schools make water polo a var­sity sport. Despite this, the team kept up a competitive level this year by trouncing both Eastern Michigan and Bowling Green. 
Early in the season, offensive leaders Brian Wood and Eric Schultz were sidelined due to illness. Upon their return, however, the Irish proceeded to crush their opponents. Wood scored five first quarter goals and Schultz was a force inside as Notre Dame defeated Bowl­ing Green 16-8. 
"Bowling Green was forced to double team our good hole men, allowing our shooters to light it up from two-point land," said hole defender Walter Mor­rissey. 
The two-point was a new rule to add excitement to the game. Similar to basketball, the play­ers are awarded more points for a shot made from beyond the seven-meter mark. 
This rule was a added bonus 
for Notre Dame. Junior Will 
McCarthy and sophomore J.B. 
Boyd played the role of sniper on many occasions this spring, offering another dimension to the Irish attack. 
The Irish have also competed with Big Ten rivals Northwestern, Ohio State, and Michigan. 
"Right now we are better than the teams that will be in the conference next year, but we are not at the Big Ten level yet," added Coughlin. 
At the end of the season ban­quet, freshman John Miller was voted best offensive player, while Morrissey was selected best defender. Freshman Pat Lane received most improved player honors with Coughlin taking home the MVP trophy. Sophomore Rafael Gonzalez was given the "Why yes, those are Bugle Boy jeans," award. 
CREW 
As the men's crew season began, the team found them­selves in somewhat of a rebuilding stage, losing many members to graduation last year. Still, the Irish managed to take first in all the races held at Notre Dame's home regatta in March. 
"We've been a competitive for the last four years," said cap­tain Lou Chappuie. "This year was a little more difficult be­cause we had so many under­classmen." 
Last weekend, the team trav­eled to Tennesse, where both the· heavy-four and the light­eight placed fourth in the pre­liminaries, but did not make it to the finals. 
"We haven't done as well as 
we would have liked, but we're 
looking to redeem ourselves in 
Madison next weekend," said 
lightweight rower Brice Wad­
dell. 
On the women's side, the sea­
son was highlighted by an invi­
tation for the women's open­
eight to row in the San Diego 
Crew Classic. From April 9-10, 
the Irish traveled to San Diego 
where they took third in the 
Cal-Visitor's Cup. 
"The San Diego Classic was 
~~  Esp  
~  ~11  
~·  0  

~Spanish Mass ~ 
24 Abril1994 
11:30 a.m. Breen-Phillips 
Celebrante Padre Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. 

Todos Estan Invitados 
All Are Welcome 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora 
really big for us because it gave us good exposure to some of the tougher western schools," said captain Jennifer Retterer. 
Besides exposure to compet­ing schools, the races were televised on ESPN and were also covered on local radio. The open-eight members con­sisted of coxswain Jen Casaletto, seniors Thea True, Dena St. Clair, Lix Bush, Kara Courtois, and Retterer and juniors Maureen Haggard, Paula Brenton, and Brooke Bickerton. 
At the meet in Tennessee, the women's open-four placed fourth, while in Florida over Spring Break, the lightweight­eight took second and the open­eight ended up fifth. 
EQUESTRIAN 
The regular season competi­tion for the Notre Dame Eques­trian team ended on March 19th & 20th with a double­header at Taylor University and Purdue. 
There, a strong effort cata­pulted the riders into a second place finish in the Midwest Re­gion, while also qualifying eight riders to compete for individual Midwest Champion titles. 
"This was our most successful season since 1987," said fresh­man Jennifer Toland. "We were very pleased with the number of riders that were able to qualify for the champi­onships." 
Against some of the fiercest competition in the midwest, six of the eight Irish riders quali­fied to compete for the Zone ti­tle at Findlay University in Ohio. 
Junior Meaghan McCue man­
aged to accomplish this feat 
and will compete for the Open 
Fences title at the Nationals at 
TexasA&M. 
Some other finishes included 
a sixth by sophomore Lesley 
Kokoska in intermediate fences, 
a third, sixth and eighth by 
freshmen Jody Duff, Amanda 
Maurer and Toland, respective­
ly in novice equitation. 
·­
L_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ --------­

page 14 The Observer • CAMPUS SPORTS Thursday, April 21, 1994 



Lacrosse 
continued from page 20 
Now the Fighting Irish have risen to national prominence in the sport, achieving a top-five ranking this Season, while many midwestern schools are still struggling to gain respectability. 
"Women's lacrosse provides us with a chance to establish another outdoor sport in the spring," Conboy continued. "We have such a field crunch in the fall, with men's and women's soccer, football and pre-season lacrosse that even though a sport like field hockey is attractive and a well estab­lished club, it is not viable at this time." 
The campus' familiarity with the sport, interest level of the student body and demonstrated dedication by the club are other factors Conboy and the athletic department weigh to determine which sport will be elevated to varsity status. 
"We are looking for a club that has some history and is not prohibitively expensive," Conboy says. "Two clubs that are very well established and popular are men's volleyball and crew, but we would be really putting ourselves into bind if we elevated another male team." 
The great concern over gen­der equity in the athletic department is a result of Title IX, the NCAA's ruling that all college sports programs must give equal attention to its men's and women's sports. 
The NCAA publishes guide­lines which help colleges con­form to the boundaries of Title IX. 
Conboy sits on Notre Dame's Committee on Gender Equity, the athletic department's watch-dog organization which periodically evaluates the gen­der balance in three key areas: participation, financial aid and miscellaneous aspects such as traveling, transportation and media attention. 
"Five years ago our organiza­tion made a commitment to improve the status of our Olympic sports, especially our women's teams," Conboy said. "We wanted to ensure that all of our varsity athletes were having a complete varsity expe­rience. This year we have eval­uated our efforts, and have achieved all the goals we estab­lished." 
Conboy and the rest of the Gender Equity Committee, made up of associate athletic directors Joe O'Brien and Brian Boulac, RecSports Director Tom Kelly, head volleyball coach Debbie Brown and Director of Academic Advising Kate Halischak, meet on a weekly basis to assess the status of the men's and women's athletic programs. 
While no definite time-table has been set for the elevation of a club sport to varsity, Conboy plans on giving the team a year's notice in order to obtain a full-time coach and begin recruiting. 
"I think if we are able to become a varsity team, we can attract a lot of talent to Notre Dame just because of the school and its academic reputation, " says sophomore Clare Nolan, a two-year member of the Notre Dame club and a former high school varsity player. "We could do very, very well in the Midwest and I think people would come out to see the games because there is a lot of interest in lacrosse, being that it is a new sport here." 
But while Nolan and other, more experienced members of the squad relish the idea of playing more competitively, members of the team who have less experience have expressed some reservations. 
"I hope they would establish Co-Ree lacrosse or keep the club for those of us who aren't varsity players to have a chance to play," said sophomore Jenna Gwinn, who like many mem­bers of the club began playing just this year." 
"I just think its such an excit­ing opportunity for us," Nolan said. "We could really establish a quality program." 
Because this ..~It's a free country" stuffonly goes so far.. 

It's everywhere you -want to be: 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
«:l Visa U.S.A. ln<1. 1994­

~--~----~-~ -------~~­
--~ 
Thursday, April21, 1994 
Women's tennis defeated 
By KATE CRISHAM Sports Writer 
The 16th-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team lost a 5-4 squeaker to 14th-ranked Indiana yes­terday at Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The loss places the Irish in a must­win position in Saturday's match against Michigan in order for them to receive a regional bid to the NCAA tournament. 
"It was definitely a tough loss," said head coach Jay Louderback. "We just lost a lot of close matches all the way down the line." 
"The loss just makes (the Michigan match) even bigger," he said. "We're definitely on the bubble. We're going to have to win on Saturday." 
Notre Dame split three of the six sin­gles matches as 21st-ranked sopho­more Wendy Crabtree defeated 18th­ranked Jody Yin 6-4, 5-7, 6-3 at num­ber--one singles, while 57th-ranked sophomore Holyn Lord defeated Danielle Pardine 6-2, 6-1. Junior Laura Schwab defeated Lee Ann Rostovsky 6-0, 6-2 at number-three singles. 
"I think we all know that we're a bet­ter team than Indiana," Schwab said. "We can play with any team in the country." 
"The Indiana match is such a big match, and we've never beaten them," she said. "I think we just got caught up in the pressure of the situation." 
Louderback rejected the idea that the Irish should have been frightened by the Hoosiers. 
"We've played in a lot of tough matches this season," he said. "We have no reason to be intimidated." 
Indeed, the Irish are recognized as one of the premiere programs in the country, having defeated such tradi­tional powerhouses as Arizona, Miami, and Brigham Young this season. 
The loss drops Notre Dame to 16-7 on the season, while Indiana is now 15-5. 
Hopefully, the Irish will use the loss as an incentive against the Wolverines on Saturday. 
"You never know how we'll react to the loss," said Louderback. "Hopefully, we'll be able to play tough and compete well against Michigan." 
The Observer/ Eric Ruethllng 
Irish second baseman Robbie Kent is hitting .406. 



Norwest~ 


Unbelievable Free Checking. 
Everyone~ GawkingAbout lt. 
You can see it on their faces. People everywhere are amazed by our brand new Unbelievable Free Checking. After all, whdd believe no monthly service charges? Whdd believe no minimum balance? Whdd believe no per check charges plus a free first order of 200 checks? Well start believing. And only Norwest gives you 24-hour telephone banking, free access to Instant Cash machines in Indiana and Ohio. So stop by today and open your Norwest Unbelievable Free Checking account. Pretty soon you'll be gawking too. 

page 15 
Valpo ­
continued from page 20 
done anything yet. We didn't know what to expect," ex­plained Lisanti. 
"They all worked with Murph and knew what they had to do. Each of them went out and ex­ecuted their game plan." 
Freshman Larry Mobs, who has been used from the bullpen and as a starter, has the sev­enth lowest ERA in the nation for pitchers with more than 20 innings with a 1.33 average. Last weekend against Butler, Mohs (1-1, 2 saves) threw a complete game shutout for his first victory of the year. 
Fellow freshmen Darin Schmalz (2-2, 1.46) and Paul Pryblo (1.64, 3 saves) have also matured quickly on the mound while Gregg Henebry (2-1, 
3.79) and the fire-throwing Mike Amrhein continue to sur­prise people. 
"By the end of the year with all the work they're getting, they'll be ready (for the tour­naments)," said Lisanti. 
The freshmen and their abili­ties complement the more ex­perienced members of the staff. Relievers Marty DeGraff, A.J. Jones and Tim Kraus all turned in strong performances this week. 
Starter Craig Allen and reliever Rich Sauget have both shown what they can do on the mound this year. And then of course there is Tom Price. 
"The pitching staff is really a credit to Tom. He had a really successful freshman year and watching him and how he works has been helpful for the pitchers," said Lisanti. 
Notre Dame (22-8) will need continued success from its pitchers as Valparaiso comes to Eck Stadium for a single game tonight and Midwestern Colle­giate Conference rival Evansville visits for a four­game series this weekend. 
Valparaiso brings a 12-22 record into tonight's contest, but the Crusaders are streak­ing with three straight victo­ries. 
Shawn Lemmons leads the Crusader attack from the plate with a .337 average. He is also the team's run producer with 29 runs batted in, but he is not up to the standards of Notre ­Dame's Robbie Kent. 
Despite having play five less games, Kent is hitting .406 with 34 RBis, 11 doubles and five triples. In all four categories, Kent's numbers are tops for the Irish starters. 
On the mound, the Crusaders' numbers don't real­ly compare the those of the Irish staff, but that does not mean the pitchers aren't capa­ble of strong individual perfor­mances. 
The aces of the Valparaiso staff are Jeff Brooks, who de­spite a 6. 79 ERA is 4-2, and Chuck Donley, who has 55 strikeouts, but a 6.49 ERA and a 1-7 record. Four of Donley's losses were by three runs or less. 
One question for the Irish is the status of shortstop Paul Failla. 
Failla removed himself from Tuesday's game against Purdue after feeling something in his shoulder pop during warmups between innings and he is questionable for tonight's game. 
Tonight's game at Eck Sta­dium starts at 7 p.m .. 
Page 16 The Observer· BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL Thursday, April21, 1994 
Yahoo is the new No.15 seed, and they'll face #2 NBT. 

-Bookstore 
The rmal surprise came in a 
continued from page 20 
Mike Martin. Kerry Plank, and Travis Smith. Malicious, a perennial sweet 16 contender, thought they had a better chance of advancing. 
"We didn't look past them, but we didn't think we would have too much trouble," ad­mitted Malicious captain Dan Keegan. "They shot great at the end and we just couldn't answer their run. It's no fun to lose, but they're an excellent shooting team." 
Hood River, the new No. 11 seed faces Pete Coleman's No. 6 DOS KLOSKAS team. 
An hour later, Stepan Court No. 5, the sight of Hood River's upset, became a jinx for the No. 10 seed Magnolia Thunder. The Yahoo Jug Band, a team con­sisting of Dillon Hall residents, beat Carl Cozen's Thunder team 21-17. 
"No one really expected us to win," said Yahoo player Ryan Strong, who led the Band with 9 points. "We knew that we could beat them, and Pat Carlevito played great defense on Cozen." 
battle of the Class of 96, as Showtime defeated No. 13 Unfrozen Cavemen 21-14. Showtime, a team featuring Stanford Hall sophomores, shot well and utilized the fast break to freeze the Cavemen. 
"We expected a good game, and they're a great team," said Unfrozen captain Kevin Janicki. "They were the better team and they're definitely one of the top 16 teams in the tourna­ment." 
Other cinderellas in the sweet 16 include Belmont Beverage and Strategic Deterrence. Belmont must face No. 1 Headbangers, while Strategic goes up against No.3 Majestic Silver backs. 
"The Round of 64 and 32 showed that they're a lot of good teams on this campus and that even the commissioners don't know which teams are likely to make the sweet 16," added Executive commissioner Joe Poe. 
Whoever wears the glass slip­per will be determined today. If the Wednesday's round is an indication of what's to come, then we might need more than one slipper. 

Illustrator/Bill Garvey 


Sizing up the 16 
By Tim Seymour and Dominic Amorosa 
No.1 HEADBANGERS ed," stated O'Rourke. "The tournament team consisting of walk on basketball left because of their steady play. Their 
Led by football players Brian will come down to whose going to scrap player Pat Keaney, boxer Jeff Goddard flashy style and sharp shooting has got-Hamilton, Oscar McBride. and Bobby and whose going to get on the floor." and class officers Bryan Corbett and Joe ten them this far, but they don't have Taylor, three members of this team No.4 EBONY SIDE OF THE DOME Bergan. Rebel relies on its size, but the name recognition of some of the made it to the Final Four last year. Athleticism, balance, and an intimida-admits it hasn't been tested thus far. other teams. A surprisingly high No. 12 Headbangers is far and away the most tion like no other team separates Ebony. "We're seeded about right," said seed, Showtime has earned the respectathletic team left in the tournament, and Guards Martin Sommerville and LaRon K "W . · 1 ll t th of the commissioners. 
1
Moore exhibit great court savvy and eaney. e re P aymg rea we oge ­
the skills of McBride and Hamilton in quickness to make up for a lack of er right now, so we have a solid chance, "We want to run the break and playthe paint will make them a difficult range, Conrad James is a silky-smooth but we have a tough draw." Alliance will together as a team," said Travis Brown. 
match up. 
On defense, Headbangers utilizes its leaper at forward, and Oliver Gibson have to contend with 6'9 Joe Ross No. 13 C.C.E quickness and size in an dominates the middle. inside, but Keaney faced Ross every day The Carolina blue jerseys, bandanas,
SEYMOUR'S FINAL EIGHT
attacking zone that pres­An aggressive team, throughout the basketball season. and black socks that this team wears sures the ball as it is 
Ebony will gamble on Corbett and Brian McCarthy can mix it makes them the flashiest looking team brought up the court. steals and try to run the up inside as well, while Bergan and in the tournament. However, looks don't Taylor's size and moves break. However, unlike Goddard can hit from the outside. translate into size. make him difficult to years past, they have No.9 PROP 48 Led by the Ziolkowski twins, Brian and guard man-to-man, while shown.remarkable offen-This team is the most physical team Keith, C.C.E will fire jump shots from all 
underrated Kenny 
sive patience and will left in the tournament, relying on the angles. Steve Madden and Dan Orie will 
Middleton can knock wait for the open man.
"Our key is getting a lot of inside strength of Joe Ross and John have to assert themselves inside, while
down the open 15-footer. 
steals and defensive Rushin. point guard Derek Gustafson must die-
Lack of a true point 
rebounding," noted "We're don't know the fundamentals tate tempo. 
guard and suspect out­
James. as well as most teams, but we're getting "This time we're the underdogs, so we
side shooting are po­
tential weaknesses. No.5 SUDDEN DEATH by fairly well," said Matt Osiecki. "We've can just go out and play ball," said Keith "Being number one Featuring Jon Ross and exceeded our expectations." Ziolkowski. puts a lot of pressure on Ben Foos, perhaps the With Ross operating inside, point No. 14 STRATEGIC 
.. us," stated Taylor. best football player in the guard Kevin Halfpenny and Rushin will DETERRENCE "However, most of us tournament, and guided have to continue hitting open jumpers. Another sleeper team that has upsethave been in pressure situations by point guard Paul Ferguson, Sudden No. 10 WHITE SHADOW seeds Bullseye Discount Liquor and Pass 
before." Death is steady all around. They will h hT e last time t is team was tested was the Beernuts. Speed and scrappinessNo.2 NBT dominate inside, but have the added advantage of good passers in the post in the round of 128 against Wrapped in factor into this team's success becauseIf experience wins tournaments, NBT that makes them tough to double. Barbed Wire, when they battled back of its lack of size. Tracy Graham and
should be the odds on favorite. Center Untapped potential also makes this from a 20-17 deficit to win 23-21. Since Jeff Biever can hit the jumper off the Eric Jones has been in the finals the last 
four years, Kris "Hoosier" Winningham squad dangerous. "We haven't played then, they've waltzed into the sweet 16. dribble. "We have very compatible play-has been to the Sweet 16 numerous together before, so we're still not hitting "S~me t~ams a~e justJ:hfj[l]j!lfi:'tJi@:!l3lHiiMers," said Greg Stec. times, and every other member has suc­on all cylinders," stated Kevin Ryan. "It startmg to Jell," satd head......... ·-·--·'"'"-··-··-No. 15 THE YAHOO ceeded against the best competition in should be exciting when we do." commissioner Andy Sinn. JUG BAND the tournament. No.6 DOS KLOSKAS White Shadow could be •· 
Unselfishness and hard"We haven't been tested yet, but I'm Another team that relies on balance, what Sinn means. Eddie work defined this team in still confident that if we play well, no Bert Barry and Pete Coleman provide Vrydolyak and Garret DUliJU~i.JII~ 
their upset of Magnoliaone should beat us," commented Joe quickness as well as size inside. The Hartman could lead them .. 
Thunder. Ryan Strong
Haigh. NBT goes about its business with one question surrounding this team is its to the Promised Land. 
a minimum of flair. inexperience against teams with equal has the ability to carry
"Garret needs to heat·
NBT is especially dangerous because talent. One given is not to play zone the team offensively and 
up," said Vrydolyak. "If he
all of its players can handle the ball and against them, because the shooting of their. team defense is out­
gets hot, we'll be tough." 
are adept at moving to get open. "We're their guards will render it non-effective. standing. an evolving team in that we can push it "We're having a great time playing. so No. 11 HOOD RIVER "We're pretty gritty," up the court or fall into the half court we just want to see how we can do BANDITS said Pat Carlevito. "No game easily," stated Doug Scholer. against good teams," said Mike Kloska. Speed and outside shoot­one cares who scores as Without a weak link, only a team effort "We want to put other teams off tempo." ing define this team. If the long as we win." will deny their destiny. No. 7 VITO'S BARBER SHOP weather holds, look out"---~-;,_,_,-'----~_..;,­
No. 16 BELMONT
No.3 MAJESTIC SILVERBACKS Called "the smartest team" in the tour­because Morrissey roommates Mike 
BEVERAGE
Majestic has been the most impressive nament, Vito's features four six-two Martin and Kerry Planck can light it up. 
Another sleeper team, but they mustteam in the tournament thus far. Led by players who can light it up, pass well, Hood River comes into this round fresh
varsity basketball player Brooks Boyer and play tight man-to-man defense. deal with Headbangers. This team loves 
off an upset of Malicious Prosecution.
and captain Ben O'Rourke, this team They also have the advantage of surviv­to be the underdog. After beating Hot 
Their lack of size hurts them in the mid­
embodies the "interchangeable parts" ing two close games, so they will not fold Grits a Flyin', they took care of Dribble, 
dle, but this streaky shooting team could
theory of basketball to perfection. under the pressure of the late rounds. Dribble. Belmont thrives on their bois­Forcing teams to panic with a trapping "We played the close ones, which get hot at any time. terous crowd as well as guard Ryanthree-quarter court defense, every play­helped us shake out some of the kinks," "We have to have all five guys on the 
Heider. 
er of Majestic is capable of converting stated Tom Sear. "We have the ability boards," said Martin. "We try to run 
"I'm excited to play, but I don't know 
off a turnover. They also have easily the to play well together." with people and play scrappy defense." 
if I'll be excited about the outcome,"
best uniforms in the tournament. No. 8 REBEL ALLIANCE No. 12 SHOWTIME 
said Nate Walters. "We're a cinderella
"We're not taking anything for grant-The basketball, boxing and politician 
The most dangerous Cinderella team 
and we're proud we've gotten this far." 
Thursday, April21, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS SPORTS Page 17 
Kala01azoo downs Saint Mary's 
By JENNIFER LEWIS 
Saim Mary's Sports Editor 
Despite a strong showing, the Kalamazoo Hornets proved too much for the Saint Mary's Belles in yesterday's tennis competition. 
The Belles lost the match 7-2, dropping their season record to 12-4. 
Kalamazoo is the most chal­lenging team Saint Mary's has encountered this season. They are currently ranked fourth in the mid-west. 
"It could have gone either way," said Cromer. "It was al­most tied in every game." 
The most surprising match of the game was won by Thayma Darby, who is suffering from pneumonia and bronchitis. Darby has been unable to prac­tice since April 15. 
"Darby seemed to be more relaxed because she wasn't as worried about winning as she was about fmishing the game," continued Cromer. 
The number two position doubles team, Darby and Robin Hrycko, lost their third match yesterday afternoon. 
"If we both would have been healthy, we would have been able to beat them," said Hrycko. "Darby played excep­tionally well in her singles match. However, by the time doubles came she was exhaust­ed." 
Freshman Kate Kozacik lost her first set 4-6, but won the second two sets 6-4. 
"I was happy to help the team with my individual victory," said Kozacik. "I was proud that I stayed in the game mentally." 
Mary Cosgrove experienced defeat when she played the number one ranked player in the mid-west, Jackie Aurelia. 
According to Cromer, Cosgrove had the ability to beat her, but the game was going Aurelia's way. 
"Aurelia was the best Division III player I have ever seen," said Kozacik. 
It was more of an emotional game for the Belles than for the Hornets. 
"The score does not reflect how close the match really was," said Cromer. 
APRIL 22 FRIDAY 
8:30PM 
STEPAN CENTER 
STUDENTS $3 GENERA>. $5 
tickets available at the 
LaFortune !nfo Desk 
WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE RESULTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20 
Anthony Travel d. Swisn 21-2 Mishawaka Brewing Co. d. Punk Bee-otches 21-9 Yciu Didn't Know About Us d. Batting 1.000 21-6 Every Now & Then I Get... d. Society 21-4 Below The Net d. Sweet Sensation 21-9 Basketball Goddesses d. Ernie Rocks ... 21-19 Ring My Bell d. Hells Belles 21-6 Short & Sassy d. Kiss-N-Ride 21-11 
TODAY'S GAME SCHEDULE 
6:00 pm Anthony Travel v. Ring My Bell 
6:30 pm Mishawaka Brewing Co. v. Below The Net 
FRIDAY'S GAME SCHEDULE 4:00pm You Didn't Know About Us v. Short & Sassy 
4:00 pm Every Now & Then ... v. Basketball Goddesses 
BOOKSTORE RESULTS 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20 
Prop 48 d. Coming From ... 21-17 Headbangers d. Bus Drivers 21 c4 Ebony d. Pink Sky 21-15 NBT d. Woody &4 Other Stiffs 
21-12 Strategic Deterence d. Beernuts 
21-14 Magestic Silverbacks d. All The President's... 21-11 Sudden Death d. L-Train 21-14 Vitos d. Sweeter ... 21-18 
Hood River ... d. Malicious 21-16 
The Yahooh ... Jug Band d. Magnolia Thunder 21-17 
Rebel Alliance d. No Clue 21-13 
White Shadow d. The Good, The Bad... 21-14 Showtime d. Unfrozen Cavemen 21-14 DOS KLOSKAS d. Meglipian Society 21-1 0 Belmont Beverage d. Dribble, Dribble 21-16 CCE d. Watch Out! 21-18 
No nee to hide anymore 8usie Laatz... finally 21! 
Happy Birlhds.yl 
Love, Amila, Maryse and Jo 

~,-~--~----~---~--~~~~~-~-~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
least ee de 'tions for 




"value~' So do we. 




Color Display, Apple" Extended KeyboardUand mouse. 
Color Display, Apple" Extended KeyboardUand mouse. 
Giving people more value for their money has made Macintosh" the best-selling available within your budget. Meaning you get it all. Po~er. Quality. And afford­personal computer on campuses and across the coun­
ability. It's that simple. So, if that sounds like value
Affordable computers from Apple.
try for the past two year~ And that's a trend that 
to you, visit your Apple Campus Ap l ­
is likely to continue. Because there are Macintosh and PowerBook· models Reseller today. And leave your dictionary at home. p1€... 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 
• 
.., 

page 18 Thursday, April 21, 1994 
~----~-­
-------~­
Tennis to fac-e Kentucky 
By PHIL LANGER Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team's season is quickly drawing to a close. That is, the regular season is ending. For if the Irish can improve their record to 21-8 by beating 11th-ranked Kentucky this afternoon, things could become interesting come May when the NCAA tournament commences. 
Notre Dame's top two singles players, fifth-year senior Andy Zurcher and freshman sensation Ryan Sirnrne, are ranked 20th and 49th in the nation. 
The rnatchup with Kentucky is defi­nitely a perfect time to pull an upset with a month left before the NCAA Regionals begin. 
The Wildcats are far from a pushover, however, because they were ranked as high as No. 3 until three of their star players were suspended for accepting money in professional tournaments. 
Furthermore, Kentucky finished third The Observer/ Eric RuethHng in the national indoor tournament. Sophomore Mike Sprouse and the Irish will host 11th ranked Kentucky this afternoon. Consequently, Irish coach Bob Bayliss 
could only comment on the difficulty of the challenge ahead. 
"They're simply an outstanding team," remarked Bayliss, "We will have our hands full." 
At No. 1 singles, Zurcher faces Mike Hopinson, an "aggressive, hard-hitting net-rusher," according to Bayliss. 
Freshman Ryan Sirnrne will also have his hands full with Australian native Mayher Gooderz at the No. 2 singles slot. Last year, when Gooderz played No. 1 singles for the Wildcats, he took former Irish star Will Forsyth to the brink of defeat before losing. 
The key to the match should be the doubles rnatchups. It seems every match against a higher-ranked team has come down to the doubles point this season for the Irish. 
The Wildcats will have their hands full, however, in this their first visit to South Bend. 
Notre Dame's No. 1 doubles team is corning off a victory against the second­ranked doubles team in the country, Arizona State's top pair. 

Saint Mary's softball splits 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish!


twin bill with Bethel College 
Thursday-April21 
By KARA MASUCCI Spons Writer 
"One, two, three! Hit, run, score!" was the chant corning from the Saint Mary's softball team dugout yesterday as they competed against Bethel Col­lege on their home turf. 
The Belles continued their win-the-first-but-lose-the-sec­ond tradition of the past week by winning the first game of a doubleheader 3-2 but losing the second 7-5. 
However, Saint Mary's rallied in the second game, and proved to the favored squad from Bethel that they were mentally and physically prepared to take them on. 
"We played the best team that we've played so far [yes­terday]. They got ahead in the second game early, but we carne back in the last inning. That's something that we haven't been able to do re­cently," stated Belles coach Don Kromer. 
"We are a young team and we start out strong. Some of the intensity gets lost in the second game, but we are corn­ing together," added Kromer. 
Intensity yesterday, however, was high iii both games. · 
The dugout never stopped cheering, the pitching stayed strong, and hits were not hard to come by. 
In the bottom of the seventh inning of yesterday's nightcap, with two outs and two runners on, senior catcher Jane Murphy shot a line drive into right field for a triple, driving in two runs. However, it just was not enough to beat Bethel. 
"I think the fact that we carne back [in the seventh inning] showed a lot of character on our part. Bethel was strong, and the game carne down to only a couple of runs," stated first baseman Sara Miller. 
Sophomore Maria Vogel start­
....:=:::=:. ~ 
-~­
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
t\ORfftU Crn1 ER
• 
fOR lttl ctl R T S 
THE SAINT MARY'S COllEGE DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIOO, DANCE &THEATRE PRESENTS 

UGHT100 DESIGN BY SHAUN LWELLEN ADDITIONAL CHOREOORAPHY BY FACULTY AND STUDENTS FRIDAY-SATURDAY, APRIL 22-23, 8P.M.· SUNDAY, APRIL 24, 2:30P.M. 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $6ADULTS •$4 SEN!Cfl CITIZENS· $3 CAMPUS COMMUNITIES· $2 STUDENTS 00 SALE AT THE SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE, LOCATED IN O'LAUGHUN, ~5 MOO.·FAL DISCOVER, V1SA, MASTERCARD ORDERS AT 2191284-4626. 

#14 Notre Dame ed pitching in the first game, 
Men's Tennis and aided the team not only with strikes, but also with two 
vs. Kentucky double-plays at first. 
3:15 prn Courtney Courts 
"I felt really good about my pitching. There are a few hits Friday -April 22that I'd like to get back, but given the caliber of hitting abil­
Notre Dame Softball ity on the other team, I'm 
vs. Loyola Chicago 
pleased," stated Vogel. 
3:30 prn Ivy Field 
Bethel's hitting power sur­prised the Belles, but pleased 
FREE ADMISSION Bethel coach Drew Peterson. 
Saturday -April 23 Notre Dame Track vs. Eastern Illinois 
12:00 prn Cartier Field 
Notre Dame Lacrosse vs. Ohio State 
3:30 prn Krause Stadium FREE ADMISSION 
" We didn't get the bunts we Notre Dame Baseball 
needed down, but overall we Saturday -April 23 and Sunday -April 24
had outstanding plays defen­sively and clutch hits when they 
Notre Dame vs. Evansville were needed," said Peterson. 
1:00 prn Eck Stadium Overall, according to Kromer, 
On Saturday -FREE sunglasses to the first 1,000 fans the Belles are happy with the courtesy ofthe Notre Dame Credit Unionway they played yesterday. 

-~-------~--~-------~-----~----~-------------·---~ 

Thursday, April 21, 1994 The Observer • TODAY 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
Gooo. llt!SRE:'~ No NE.E:D To 13E. T'V& OEC.iDE:O W E.ET ON \NITI-t MY u FE: B '{ 
TI\KiN&, ALL ntf: HEART­
ACHE. AND PAIN YOU'Ve CAUSE:.D ME: A-ND 
ftiTERtiALIZIH& IT. 
~0\J'~E. GOT TJI/0 • SK.<J\-\05 10 ~ 
-----~--..1 iOOR Cr>.PED SIJ'IT \N B£0, OR l'Ll P\.JT I\ -mER£ FoR GOOD.' 

"Well, Red Cloud, it just so happens I did go ask the chief! ... A bear claw necklace is a symbol of honor­a Grizzly Adams fingernail necklace is not!" 
OF INTEREST 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
£ 1-\e.Re. f\, F;;uR Foo'l::> 
~E.'S, ~ 1(£ALI'Z.£11\e. WE.ATI\E.R p<, l-\A•E. NoTo <.E '1::> A 
\\A-,;'J3e.£N tAl3UcOU~ 1-\EI<£ 01' r-IC, l7z.O:Nl> \>o.A..-VJE-,'1::> 
LATE.. UJE ARE Ac"o (oN'SC.oouS. L-"'"-"5To PPE-D l<oc.l-1 ,­
Or 1-\ov> \(AII.EL"\ Tli•-s (om£S. \'lou> ... 
To Sov'<H 'BEND. "Bu-r 1\.£A'5£, 
J EASE ••. 

ACROSS 26 Didja ever see a --? 
1 Agcy. vigilant 
29lmprint
about vittles 
33Jai-­
4 Make or break, 
34 Team in an
e.g. 
annual all-star 
a Two-fisted 
game
13 Abbr. for an old 
37 Color
soldier 
38 Didja ever see a
14 Energy choice 
--?
15 Playwright 
41 Didja ever see a
Fugard 
--? (2wds.)
16 Gifted 
43 Bowl over
17 Didja ever see a 
44 Thick slice 
-? 46 Newsy bit 
19 "I don't think so" 47 Plight 20 Mine, to Marcel 49 Didja ever see a --?
21 Parenthetical comments 53 Some like it hot 22 Staff 56 Poet Teasdale 24 Many a hip-hop 57 They get poet squirreled away 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~=-loO. ~:..+;:~ ~~~ 
t.=,;...j.::::...j.;:~ r..;::+~~ 
Urnrn ... I 
TlloNKlHAT's 
&o Lenin's police or g. 
&3Govroom, vroom 
64 Didja ever see a -? 
66 Sundial number 
&7 Antipasto goody 
68 Plowman 
69 Presidential monogram 
70 Devonshire dad 
71 Hairdresser, sometimes 72 Grin's stopping point 
DOWN 
1~n 1"£ ms. 
1 GarQon's 
l:~ll ~ I:~B.
pourboire 2 Split 
1 m~ S1~ND. 
3 Where touts tout 4 "Va-va-va­

fRifNOS OON'f lH fRifNOS DAIVf DRUNK 
5 Barcelona bull 
6 Project 
glowingly DINING HALL 7 Buddy 30 Hitch 45 Hogwash 570n a Bit of poolroom 31 Word on a 48 Tried hard 58 Some kind of a 
finesse diploma 50 Simon of fiction nut51 French fries 
9Garb 32 Drill sergeant's 59 Last writes? 
brand10 Nigerian border call 52 Cincinnati 61 Rumble of 
lake 35 Black &Decker 11 Grind, in a way competitor 
university contentment 54 Tick off 12Ford 
36 Famous 62 French article 
55 Controversialcontemporary marshal food additive 65 Tack on
14--Na Na 38 Certain missile 18 Breach 39 Be in the red 23 Constitutional 40 Sunscreen Get answers to any three clues 


25 Child's ammo ingredient 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
27 Wails from baby 42 Super Bowl Ill 
28 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
< 


Jii1!0St~, ·~ 94
Have fun today, whether you're bungee running, sumo wrestling, gyro-ing, getting tattoos, or rearranging your dismembered barbie dolls so that they spell out your favorite state capital's theme song. Don't STUDENT UNION BOARD forget to check out tonight's campus bands, would like to say "horse radish" five times fas:t among other things. All this and more horse radish, horse radish, hors radsh, horsh brought to you by SUB. You're welcome. radiss hosh relish. Then, go! Find a reed. Go. Gleep! Sunsets. Jasper Savoyaki. uh,Bill. Why are you reading this? Finish your burger. 
_,.. 
• 
.. 
-~-­

SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, April 21, 1994 
Sw-eet, sw-eet Sixteen 
By DOMINIC 
years," said Head AMOROSA Commissioner Sports Writer Emeritus Andy Sinn. "The past Upsets have two days have always been a proved that any-part of Bookstore thing can hap-
B a s k e t b a I I. L---......:::.._____....______J pen." 
Yesterday at Stepan Courts, five higher ranked teams fell and April 20th of the 23rd Bookstore Basketball will go down as "The day of Surprise at Stepan." Now, it's time for sixteen, and the cream will rise to the top. 
"This tournament has been one of the most interesting ones inWhat's happened is similar to 

what happened in the last week­
end of the NCAA Basketball sea­
son. 
That weekend, 7 of the 
Associated Press's top ten teams 
lost. Only 3 top ten teams lost at 
Stepan, but the tournament has 
still taken on a March Madness . mentality . 
The No. 2 seed of the tourna­
ment, Coming From Behind II, a 
team that reached the sweet 16 a 
year ago, fell to Prop 48 b~ a 21­
17 margin. John Rushin, a varsity 
hockey player, and basketball 
player Joe Ross Jed the way for 
Prop 48 with 9 and 5 points 
respectively. 
"We had a lead at halftime and 
we knew they we're shooting on a 
bent rim the second half," com­
mented Coming From Behind cap­
tain Paul Berrettini. "They just 
started hitting their shots and we 
couldn't stop them. Rushin just 
couldn't miss and he beat us." 
Prop 48 faces walk-on basketball 
player Pat Keaney's Rebel Alliance 
team in the 8-9 game. 
Another favorite, No. 9 Malicious 
Prosecution, was upended 21-16 
by The Hood River Bandits, a 
scrappy team featuring guards 
see BOOKSTORE I page 16 
The Observer/ Kyle Kusek Magnolia Thunder's Carl Cozen has a pick set on him during yesterday's bookstore basketball action. Cozen and company lost to Yahoo's Recovering Alcoholic Jug Band 21-17. 

The New Sport 
Women's lax is on the brink of varsity status 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
There are no plush, United Limo buses equipped with VCRs for club teams. 
So a few weekends ago, when the women's lacrosse team traveled to their first tourna­ment at Michigan State, most of the team was crammed into the cars of whomever on the team could drive. 
The rest of the team was back in South Bend, unable to make the trip due to lack of space. 
But if the Notre Dame athletic department goes through with its plan to make a women's club team a varsity sport within the next few years, women's lacrosse's days of begging for cars may be over. 
"(Athletic Director) Dick 
Rosenthal would like to be able to say that we have an equal number of men's and women's varsity sports," said Associate Athletic Director Missy Conboy. "Right now the numbers are 13 men's and 11 women's sports." 
Despite just achieving official Notre Dame club status, lacrosse is the favorite for a number of reasons, according to Conboy. 
"Lacrosse is really taking off right now, " Conboy says. "If we make our move to get a team established early, we will have a chance to move up the national rankings quickly." 
Conboy knows whereof she speaks. Five years ago the ath­letic department assigned the women's club soccer team to varsity status. While soccer was an established, competitive sport throughout the west and parts of the east, it had not gained a foothold in the mid­west when Notre Dame founded its team. 
see lACROSSE I page 14 
Valpo· 

visits Eck Stadium 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Senior Sports Writer 
At the beginning of the sea­son, pitching was the big ques­tion for the Irish baseball team. 
Now just over halfway through the season, the Irish mound crew has matured into one of the top-25 staffs in col­lege baseball. With a team earned run average of 3.05, Notre Dame ranks as the 14th­best staff in the country. 
No one has a better angle on their improvement than junior catcher Bob Lisanti. 
"Going into the beginning ol the year, there were many question marks. We knew they were capable of throwing and had talent, but they hadn't 
see V ALPO/ page 15 








