
~150 YEARS~t
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 
• Y'S >~ 
( <l 1 I. 1 (; 1 
t'"'

Thursday, December 1, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 60 ~NOTRE DAME·IN ~~ 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Balfour awards $1 million grant to University 
By DAVE TYLER News Editor 
Fleet Investment Services (FIS) has awarded a $1 million grant to the University of Notre Dame on behalf of the L.F. Bal­four Foundation, for which FIS is a trustee , Leon Wilson Se­nior Vice President of Charita­ble Asset Management, an­nounced Monday. 
The grant will benefit minor­ity scholars who wish to attend Notre Dame, said Wilson. The money will support the Balfour­Hesburgh Minority Scholars Program, which helps prepare Hispanic, Asian, African­American, and Native American for matriculation at Notre Dame. 
Named for Notre Dame Pres­ident Emeritus Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, the Balfour-Res­burgh Minority Scholars Pro­gram provides four-week sum­mer seminars to help acclimate incoming minority students to Notre Dame's freshman cur­riculum. 
The seminars address such issues as communications, problem solving, and basic 
learning and study skills. 
"We are pleased to award this grant to the University of Notre Dame," said Wilson. "Notre Dame has been a favored charity of the Balfour Foundation and over the years we have provided more than 
2.2 million to the University for minority education." 
University officials were ex­cited by news of the grant, and speculated that it would allow the Balfour-Hesburgh Program to expand. 
"We are very grateful to the Balfour Foundation and Fleet for this generous grant and the magnificent opportunity it pro­vides for minority students at Notre Dame," said University President Rev. Edward A. Mal­loy, C.S.C. 

"The Balfour-Hesburgh Program has been wonderfully beneficial to our engineering and science majors, and this new funding will enable us to continue the program for minority students in arts and letters and business admin­istration." 
The Balfour Foundation has been helping minority students through grants since it was founded in 1977. 
"The Foundation's mission is to fund programs that remove barriers to education for minor­ity and disadvantaged youth," said Wilson. 
"Consideration is given to educational programs that encourage young people to excel in grade and high school, and to continue on with a post secondary education." 
Fleet manages the Balfour Foundation's assets and admin-
see BALFOUR/ page 4 

• ~TUDENT SENATE 
Additional allocations granted for conference 

Honors program grads headed for success 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE .Assistant News Editor 
Additional funds will be allo­cated to a Catholic conference taking place on Notre Dame campus this weekend, accord­ing to a vote taken at yester­day's Student Senate meeting. 
Student Body President David Hungeling announced that he had met with a budget commit­tee concerning a conference of the National Association for Catholic Colleges and Universities (NASCCU) to be 
held  at  Notre  Dame  this  
Thursday through  Sunday.  
The  Student  Senate  was  

asked by Gary Girzadas, Carroll Hall co-president and chairper­son of the conference, to cover expenses for the conference since NASCCU is an organiza­tion under the heading of Student Government. 
Girzadas, who was in charge of providing housing for visiting students, planned on saving Student Government money by having students stay in dorm rooms at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. However, due to the numerous dances planned, many hall residents were un­willing to take responsibility for visiting students during this particular weekend. 
Because he had to provide ho­tel rooms and buses to trans­port the students to and from campus Girzadas asked for an additional $750 to cover the extra expenses of the confer­ence. 
"In some ways he (Girzadas) has not been a perfect planner," Hungeling said. 
If given by the Senate, Hungeling said the money 
see SENATE/ page 4 
By ROBERT REID Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 
U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali arrived in Sarajevo today to discuss whether to pull U.N. peace­keepers out of the country. 
His trip came as Serb forces pressed deeper into the U.N.­declared "safe area" of Bihac, a Muslim stronghold in north­western Bosnia. 
The "absolute rock-bottom" conditions for keeping the peacekeepers in Bosnia are a nationwide truce and an end to harassment and detention of the 24,000 U.N. troops, said Michael Williams, a U.N. spokesman in Zagreb, Croatia. 
Another spokesman, Thant Myint-U, said today if that failed to happen in the next several weeks, Boutros-Ghali could sug­gest "termination of the U.N. mission." 
But Bosnian Serbs were sig­naling that they would bargain hard. Doubts emerged about whether Boutros-Ghali even would be able to meet Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic as planned, because of bickering over a meeting site. 
The rebel Serbs -who have the upper hand on the battle­field -have detained 400 U.N. 
•
McAdams: Serb victory·;'i.. 'wake-up call' for NATO 


By BRAD PRENDERGAST AssismntNews Editor 
The iinpending Serb victo­ry in the Bihac region of Bosnia is significant for two reasons, according to Jim McAdams, associate profes­sor of government and facul­ty fellow of the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace. 
"It signals the fact that the Serbs have won the war," McAdams said, "and it's the first wake-up call for NATO since 1989." 
The battle at Bihac has important intern;J.tional 
political implicatio according.to McAdams .... ····· 
"It is not just aboutyu goslavia," he said. ''lt~~~J challenging the natiqrt:s' commitment to transt 
Atlantic unity." .. ·· 
While experts on the CQJ1" tlict agree that sending in ground troops is necessary if the Serb forces are to be defeated, neither the United 
States nor the European .· members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization > are willing to offer their sol~:;;;;; diers for the cause. · · 

By EDWARD IMBUS NewsWrirer 
Over 7 5 percent of those who graduated last year from the University's Arts & Let­ters/Science Honors program have been given fmancial grants to continue their studies. 
All of the graduates of the Sci­ence Honors program are now attending respected universities in pursuit of their graduate or professional degrees. Most are receiving financial support, ei­ther in full or in part, from uni­versity fellowships, according to a University press statement. 
Those graduating from the program last year with arts and letters degrees have fared equally as well. Of those con­tinuing their studies, three re­ceived the vaunted Fullbright Fellowship to study abroad, four are attending law school, and several others are participating in graduate level research. Four others elected to continue their education in a different way by devoting a year or more to community service. 
The Fullbright Fellowship is an extremely competitive and sought after prize, according to James McAdams, professor of government and undergraduate director of the Fullbright Fellowships. Those receiving the award, which is not limited to those in the Honors Program, are given a grant to cover tuition costs, books, and living expenses for a year's study in a foreign country. 
After being invited to apply by a screening committee, students are accepted into the Honors Program prior to beginning their freshman year , said David Lodge, professor of biological sciences and co-director of the program. From those who apply, usually 20 students are accepted from each college. 
Honors Program students then take special class sections of the Freshman Year curricu­lum, such as the humanities seminar, and also take an in­terdisciplinary seminar in the fall semester of their senior year. 
"What we try to do is provide a small, liberal-arts college at­mosphere in the large research university that Notre Dame is," said Lodge. By doing so, the University is able to recruit highly gifted students to attend 
see HONORS/ page 4 

peacekeepers to deter NATO airstrikes on their positions, but released 45 British soldiers to­day. 
Security was tight as Boutros­Ghali headed to talks with Bosnia's Muslim President Alija Izetbegovic and other senior government officials. 
"I am an optimist. I hope we'll get new momentum for a cease­fire around Bihac," the U.N. chief said upon arriving. 
On the eve of his visit, U.N. sources said Dutch peacekeep­ers in Srebrenica, a U.N.-de­clared safe area in southeastern Bosnia, came under sustained fire and asked for support from NATO warplanes. 


------------~------------~~.---~--------------------~----------------~--~----------------------------.------------­
page2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Congress 


shoots a blank 
Every time you open the------------­
newspaper, heinous acts of violence leap ofT the page. People are being stabbed and shot, having purses, wallets, cars and other belongings stolen. 

Caution is advised by  
everyone, including your  
mother, local police and  Liz Foran  
your Congressman.  Associate News Editor  
"My Congressman?"  

you might ask, "How is 
he going to protect me from bodily harm or 
being ripped off?" 22 billion dollars worth of 
answer has been provided by the hill. 
The bill aims to implement a "Three Strikes and Your Out" policy, which requires that anyone convicted of three violent federal crimes automatically is sentenced to life in prison. That's a great idea. Too many repeat offenders are allowed back out on the streets, some with police records longer than your English final paper. 
Unfortunately for us, most crime happens to be local, not federal. In fact, only about 5 per­cent of all crimes per year are federal crimes. AI Gore said to The New York Times that the crime bill would make a "huge dent" in crime. This "huge dent" will amount to 200 to 300 prisoners per year. 
Another section of the bill provides funds to put 100,000 more police officers on the streets of our cities. Since most crime is local, this actually makes sense. Unfortunately, not very many cities are taking advantage of this otTer. 
The problem might lie in that the govern­ment only provides partial funding for these officers, and local departments have to foot the rest of the bill, which is often just not pos­sible for departments that are already scram­bling for funds. 
Even if they do scrape up enough to hire another officer or two with the federal help, what will happen in five years? The depart­ments will have to come up with all of the funds or eliminate the extra positions. 
Other provisions ban the purchase of rifles with bayonets on the ends. This measure will help to stop all of the drive-by bayonettings that are running rampant in our cities. 
Other measures include building more pris­ons, and increasing the death penalty to cover more federal crimes that rarely, if ever, hap­pen. Funds for prevention and rehabilitation account for only about 12 percent of the bill. 
What should Congress do about crime? Let it be taken care of where it occurs the most, at the local level. And not with a provision that will only last five years. Legislation from Capital Hill will do nothing to protect your house, car, property or person from local crime, but your local police can. 
If Congress really wanted to help reduce crime, they would allow law enforcement agencies use the funds to protect local resi­dents. Better equipment and increased train­ing for officers, are the keys to reducing crime at the local level. Crime prevention, public education, DARE programs and similar endeavors are worthwhile, but require a cost few local departments can bring to their full potential without additional federal sponsor­ship. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Nancy Dunn Michael Hungeling Ethan Hayward Production Sports Tara Grieshop Dave Treacy Jackie Moser 
Accent Graphics Tom Roland Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, December 1, 1994 
• WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Postal Rate Commission approves higher stamp prices 
WASHINGTON The cost of mailing a letter is going 

up after the holidays -from 29 cents to 32. The independent Postal Rate Commission approved the Postal Service request for the January increase on Wednesday. But the com­mission turned thumbs down on a plan to raise nearly all postage rates by the same percentage -instead setting larger increases for mailing printed matter, advertising and parcels and holding down the increase for heavier first-class items. The package is expect­ed to bring the Postal Service $4.7 bil­lion in added income in 1995, said Rate Commission Chairman Edward J. Gleiman. The post office lost $1.3 bil­lion in the just-completed fiscal year and $1.7 billion the year before. The increase is expected to cost the typical household an extra 60 to 75 cents per month. The matter now goes back to the post office's governing board, which is expected to hold a special meeting in December to set a date for the increase -perhaps as early as Jan. 1. The gov­ernors could reject the commission decision and ask it to reconsider. That is unlikely, however, since the ruling 
has few major differences from the Postal Service's request and the agency urgently needs additional income. The Postal Service's request, sent to the commission in March, urged what amounted to a 10.3 percent rate increase for all types of mail. The commission held the 
Powerball prize reaches $95 million 

DES MOINES 
Powerball players are emptying their wallets and they're doing land-office business on Wisconsin's "Miracle Mile" as the 16-state lottery jackpot soars toward an estimated $95 million for tonight's drawing. "Players are coming back from Thanksgiving ready to play," Charles Strutt, director of the Multi-State Lottery Association, which manages Powerball, said Tuesday. Officials in Wisconsin were warning players not to break their budget for tickets. The $95 million jackpot is the second largest in the 2 1/2-year history of Powerball. Tickets for the game are sold in Arizona, Delaware, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Dakota, West Virginia and Wisconsin, as well as the District of Columbia. Players pick five numbers from a field of 45 and a "Powerball," which is one number from another field of 45. Officials say odds of winning the jackpot are one in nearly 55 million. 

Fourth Miami-area prostitute slain 

MIAMI 
Four prostitutes have been slain since September and fear has spread among residents that a serial killer is roaming the streets. Autopsy results showed Wanda Cook Crawford, 38, a known drug addict and prostitute, had been asphyxiated. She was found Friday. The other three victims all were strangled. The first, transvestite prosti­tute Lazaro Comesana, 27, was found Sept. 17. Three weeks later, Oct. 8, the body of Elisa Martinez, 44, was discovered blocks away. Police found a message scrawled on the back of the third victim, Chairty Fay Nava, 23, found Nov. 20. "It's like a 'catch me if you can' type of thing," The Miami Herald quoted a police source as say­ing. "The similarities jumped right out at us," said John Farrell, chief of Metro-Dade criminal investigations. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
The-Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Dec. 1.

-()­
Stamp increase 
The price of afirst-class stamp will increase from 29 cents to 32 in January. Wrth the increase, the typical household will spend an extra 60 to 75 cents per month. The cost of mailing aletter: 
35¢ 
30 
25 
20 
15 
10 . 
5 
0 

... ... .&. .._ ... .._ .._ 
1870 1890 1910 1930 1950 1970 1990 
AP 

Postal Workers Union, National Association of Letter Carriers and the mail handlers. All three contracts expired last week and negotiators were unable to reach a new deal, prompting the post office and unions to turn to binding arbitration. 
Donors grant aid after Arafat appeal 
BRUSSELS 

Foreign donors responded 
-·---.,..z::s Wednesday to a plea from Yasser Arafat by granting $125 million in immediate aid to help Palestinian self­rule succeed and with it, the effort toward peace. The PLO leader plans to pump the money into the Gaza Strip· slums that have become fertile recruit­ing grounds for Islamic radicals opposed to the peace deal. It is part of the $700 million promised by international donors for this year. Arafat took the opportunity of a two-day conference in Brussels to ask for more, telling officials from around the world that the aid was vital to the PLO's peace treaty with Israel. Although Western nations are concerned about the threat to peace, they are wary of handing over cash before Arafat gives more guarantees that it will be well spent. In all, donor nations last year pledged to grant the self-rule administration $2.4 billion. 
Tupac Shakur shot in holdup 
NEW YORK 

Rap singer and actor Tupac Shakur was shot five times during a robbery early today outside a recording studio. Police said the attackers apparently did not know the identity of their victim, who gained wide attention when he was criticized by Vice President Dan Quayle for anti­police lyrics. The rapper and actor was in serious but stable condition with wounds to the head, groin and hand, but was conscious and alert and able to give police a statement. Shakur and three other men were walking into the Quad Recording Studio near Times Square when three robbers confronted them about 12:30 a.m., said Sgt. James Coleman. The gunmen demanded that Shakur and his friends "Give it up," but Shakur apparently didn't move fast enough and the robbers opened fire. 
increase to 8.9 percent for a first-class stamp by setting a 20-cent post card rate instead of the 21-cent proposed by the post office and sticking with the cur­rent 23-cent price for each extra ounce of a first-class item. The post office had wanted the extra ounces to cost a quar­ter each. To make up the difference, the commission proposed increases of 14 percent for second-class items such as magazines and newspapers and third­class advertising mail. Parcel Post would jump 18 percent and the special library rate would be increased a whop­ping 70 percent. The rate commission's consumer advocate had argued for a 31-cent first-class stamp, urging that the third-class advertising mail pay more to make up the difference. But reducing the basic 32-cent rate request. however, would have caused what he termed enormous increases for other types of mail. Some critics have con­tended that the proposed increase was too small, particularly after four years without a rate rise, and will mean yet another increase will be needed in a year or two. One question mark hanging over the post office is the contracts with its three largest unions, the American 


Atlanta 52 38 Dallas 60 Baltimore 57 39 Denver 45 Boston 54 40 Chicago 33 23 Los Angeles 78 Columbus 50 25 Miami 84 
34  Minneapolis  27  ,,  
30  New Orleans 62  53  
New Vorl<  57  46  
54  Philadelphia 56  42  
73  Phoenix  67  48  


COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu·Weather. Inc 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Thursday, December 1, 1994 
Letters give voice to student concerns 
By MElANIE lAFLIN NewsWrirer 
For a few days this week, it was a little easier for students to have their voices heard by members of Congress thanks, to the efforts of Junior Katie Meyer, Student Government, and other social concerns or­ganizations. 
Students can get more in­volved in decisions affecting our world by stopping by the tables set up in the dining halls and writing to their senators. The names of U.S. Representatives and Senators are listed by state, and envelopes are already pro­vided. If the letters are turned in by Thursday, Student Gov­ernment will pay for the postage. 
Meyer first got the idea for a social concerns campaign while attending a peace studies class. 
"From a social concerns per­spective, it's important to com­municate with the government and let them know how you feel. Setting these tables up in the dining hall will make it a lot easier for students to write their senators," said Meyer. 
SEA, Students for Environ­mental Action, has also con­tributed to the campaign. Post­cards concerning the Clean Wa­ter Act have already been filled out; they simply need to be signed. 
Meyer was impressed at how well her idea was received by Student Government. The cam­paign began Tuesday night and will continue through dinner time tonight. 
Student opinions about the campaign were mixed. 
"I think this is a wonderful opportunity through which we, as students, are able to make a difference in the world around us through our senators," said a Knott resident. "I think it's a great idea. But, unfortunately, I'm afraid only a handful will care enough to do it. For most, dinner is focused on food, not on what they'll be writing to their senators," added another student. 
Whether students utilize the opportunity they have or walk right by the tables, the social concerns campaign is an easy way to actually make a differ­ence. 


Reflections On the Poverty of Christ 
given by Fr. ]oe Ross, CSC 
Sunday 2:00-3:30p.m. at the Log Chapel All are welcome sponsored by 4th Day Board 
page~~ 
NBC: Fox violates regulations 
Associared Press 
NEW YORK 
NBC is going to the federal government to challenge the Fox network, arguing that Fox's core stations violate broadcast regulations against foreign ownership, The New York Times reported today. 
NBC planned to bring the is­sue to the Federal Communications Commission today, the newspaper said. 
The network wants the FCC to rule that Fox either must sharply reduce its foreign­ownership level or let other 
U.S. networks seek unlimited foreign ownership, the Times said. 
NBC spokeswoman Judy Smith would not comment on the report when contacted Tuesday evening by The Asso­ciated Press. 
Calls to Fox went unan­swered. 
The FCC filing comes as ABC, CBS and NBC face heated competition from the cable industry as well as Fox. 
Fox began broadcasting in 1986 and has grown with such hits as "The Simpsons" and "Beverly Hills 90210." 
This season, Fox began broadcasting National Football League games, a CBS staple for decades. It also has been aggressively gaining local affiliates at the expense of its broadcast rivals. 
NBC, which is owned by General Electric Co., is argu­ing that if the FCC allows Fox's ownership arrangement, it would eradicate a 60-year pol­icy of excluding foreigners from owning U.S. broadcast properties, the Times said. 


1-800-SURF'S-UP 
~~ 
SPBINGi
AS SI!El'l lAST APRIL ON CBS NEWS M4J Botrll!l"
BREAK 
~RI\'·Ii \'OVRS'IE"LJ" 8. $4\'t:!! 



....
··­
-
~­


r-----~------------------­
page 4 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
would come out of a "contin­gency account." The "Carry Forward" or contingency account allows up to $20,000 per year to be spent "on things we didn't plan for," according to Hungeling. 
Student Government Chief of Staff Tyler Farmer said that in­stances in which money from the contingency account can be used must be of "unique or ex­traordinary opportunity." 
"I don't think this contingency account should be used because someone planned poorly," said Farmer. However, Girzadas responded that "there was no poor planning" on the part of NASCCU, which had its date for the conference set since last year. 
"Many dorms don't solidify their dance dates until late in the semester," Girzadas said. Because many dorms set their dance dates so late, it "skewed our plans in terms of housing." 
The Senate should not spend $2,000 to cover the expenses of a conference that involves "only about eight people" from Notre Dame, Farmer said. 
Ilungeling agreed. 
"I don't feel there are enough Notre Dame students involved in this conference to legitimize allocating two thousand dollars to this cause," he said. 
According to Farmer, the Senate should not have to cover the cost of the conference. The Student Government "should swallow it rather than having the Student Senate swallow it," Farmer said. 
However, Girzadas explained that two years ago, Student Government gave NASCCU $10,000 for the conference. This year, NASCCU was given an original budget of $1,000, according to Girzadas, who said he did not think an additional $750 was out of the question. 
Girzadas also said that the NASCCU conference is "mutual­ly beneficial" to both parties, who he said have "a history of working together and a great give and take relationship." 
When put to a vote, all but one member of the Senate voted in approval of having contingency cover up to $1750 of the NASC­CU conference expenses. 
However, due to its low atten­dance from Notre Dame stu­dents, Hungeling said that he will recommend that the Student Government not allo­cate money to the NASCCU con­ference in the future. 
Girzadas, who has attended numerous conferences at which several Catholic colleges have been present, pushed for the support of NASCCU because it is the only organization of its kind. "A lot of people think of Notre Dame as an academic leader and an athletic powerhouse. Notre Dame is also a leader in institutional policy, general atti­tudes, and current issues rele­vant to Catholics and students at Catholic universities," he said. 
In reference to Notre Dame's hosting of the conference, Girzadas said that "people look to us to do it." 
"We're the only school that has the resources to do it," he said. Other topics of discussion at the Senate meeting included gender issues. Student Senator and Student Union Board Manager Bridget Conley asked that the Senate approve the cre­ation of a subcommittee that would discuss gender issues. 
Conley volunteered to be head of this subcommittee, and Junior Class President George Fischer suggested that both a male and a female head this committee. A male leader of the subcommittee will be officially named at a later date, when more organization will be made concerning the gender discus­sion group. 
Former Freshmen Class Council President Thomas Matzzie, also, made an an­nouncement at the meeting that he would like the Student Senate to encourage participa­

•Pictures 
with Santa 

•
Free Sleigh Rides 

•
Free Food &Drink 


ISO Lounge 12:15-1 p.m. Thursday, December 1 
Fireside Chat 
--~ 

The Observer • NEWS Thursday, December 1, 1994 
tion in the building of the world's largest chocolate chip cookie. According to Mattzie, the cookie, which will be over 34 feet in diameter will serve 8,000 people. Matzzie said he planned on organizing a group that would bake the cookie in a homemade oven. 
The last group of people in the book of world records who baked the largest chocolate chip cookie did so by turning a tent into an oven, Mattzie said. When asked how he planned on build­ing such an oven, Mattzie responded, "We'll get some eagle scouts." 
It was suggested that this ac­tivity take place during An Tostal, and Mattzie asked that the Senate "talk it up" amongst the student body in order to en­courage participation. 

Balfour 
continued from page I 
isters its grantmaking program which has awarded more than $34 million in grants since its inception. 
The FIS Charitable Assets Management Group is the largest provider of investment service to not-for-profit orga­nizations in New England, with assets totaling $5 billion. 
On behalf of its 2,000 clients, Fleet directs or assists in the grantmaking of approxi­mately $85 million annually to charitable institutions in the Northeast, including $25 mil­lion on a discretionary basis. 
Honors 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame, according to McAdams, who spends a signif­icant amount of time with pro­gram members. 
These students are also re­quired to take part in evening colloquia offered three times a semester, in which University faculty give presentations on various subjects. 
The program is topped by a substantial senior research pro­ject in the students' major. Working with faculty advisors, the final results of the semes­ter-long project are sometimes published in academic journals and are usually the basis for future graduate work. 


• • Turn in to llall Presidents hy Dec. 5th • Put name and 
s 1 1 d e s 0 w
• . •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

campus address on photos-they will he returned • Pictures 
• may show cups, hut no heer cans, bottles, etc. please! • 
11 
zev ledllii 
A Survivor Celebrates 
Ufe. 
'Kedemshares theextraordi­
nmybueslroy ofsurvivaland 
courage,~ 
ploringtherml lifedramaand hormrthatin­
spiredthe 

Thursday, December 1, 1994 The Observer • GATT NEWS 
Agreement to bring cheaper goods 
By CALVIN WOODWARD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Forget the grand words about how GATT would set loose a "powerful wind of economic freedom." Imagine instead that it could usher in the golden age of American prune juice. 
Beneath the glowing princi­ples of GATT is a mountain of minutia, a collection of exotic and ordinary things that trad­ing nations say should become cheaper for nearly everyone. 
Consider: Beer drinkers abroad should be able to load up on Bud without losing their shirts. And after all these years, American swine livers should finally be within reach of the average European shop­per. 
There's something in the deal for Americans, too. They should get a bit of a break on imported garlic, tulip bulbs, re­frigerators, bamboo luggage and pig fat. 
There are good times ahead for bicyclists needing inner tubes. And U.S. duties on bull­dozers, bayonets, buttons and bras will come down, some a little, some a lot. 
Legislation implementing the expanded General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade passed Tuesday in the House and will be voted on Thursday in the Senate. 
If it is approved, overall duties would drop by about one-third in the United States and the other 123 countries that are signed on. Some cuts start Jan. 1; others are staged over 10 years. 
They're all spelled out in tar-
the five basic 
GATT 
winners 
A consumer's guide to duty cuts under the proposed world trade agreement. 
Product Rates Old New
U.S. duties 
Refrigerators 2.9% 0% Dishwashers .. . 3.6",4, 2.4% Cassette tape r~corders 3.9% 0% I Bent-wood fum!luiij ill'\'1 6.6% . .• ·: o% ' 500-700 cc motorcycles 3.7% 0% I Silk panty hose 18.3".4 2.7% • Sparkling wine• 30.9¢ 19.8¢ I Whole frozen chicken" 22¢ 17.6¢ · Garlic.. 1.7¢ 0.43¢ 

Japanese duties 
Beef 50% 38.5% 
Whiskey 24.5% 0% 
In-season oranges 40"/o 32% 
European duties 
Beer 24% 0% 
Potato chips 22% 14.1% 
In-season apples 14% 9% 
'per litre "per kilogram 
AP iff schedules stacked at the U.S. Trade Representative's Office -the ultimate catalogue of what the world makes and buys. 
U.S. supporters talk of the opportunities it will bring to American exporters, especially farmers who will be able to sell more to Japan and Europe and high-tech companies poised for gains in long-protected mar­kets. 
Beyond that, Japanese duties will drop to 14.4 percent from 
22.5 percent on American prune juice, to zero from 15 percent on beer, and to zero from 24.5 percent on whiskey. 
facts 
name major year dorm hometown 
BORED YET?? 
Join Communities ND to talk about more 
To sign up or for more information: 
Campus Ministry 103 Hesburgh Library or Badin Hall or call Kate Barrett or Darrell Paulsen 631-5242 
do it today --you'll be worrying about finals tomorrow!! 
1~1 
CommiDties B 0JvV'US u.. Cl.olk~ of ,Y..It a..;.~..~;ty MNISW 
Critics say even the limited round of U.S. tariff and quota cuts will put thousands of jobs at risk in the textile, dairy and other import-sensitive indus­tries already reeling from for­eign competition. 
"I went out to buy toys for my godchildren last weekend ­couldn't fmd a single one made in America," Democratic Rep. Marcy Kaptur of Ohio said. "Canned fruit from Thailand, VCRs from Japan. It's hard to find an American product to buy." 
U.S. duties are already low by world standards so benefits to American consumers are ex­pected to be modest. Still, offi­cials suggest even little price cuts could save families a few hundred dollars a year. 
So let's go GATT shopping. 
Imagine a mall stocked with items described in the 1,281 pages of the U.S. tariff schedule (17 pages on chocolate alone). 
In the grocery store, im­ported steak is 10 percent cheaper. Frozen cuts of foreign chicken are down 4.4 cents a kilogram. Cinnamon and mo­lasses are down almost imper­ceptibly. Imported toilet paper is 3.5 percent cheaper. 
Now the toy store. Stuffed dolls, electric trains, robots, monsters, tea sets, crossword puzzle books and kites -all now subject to a 6.8 percent duty -are duty free in the GATT mall, most of them im­mediately. 
In the clothing store, shop­pers must pick carefully to reap the benefits of GATT. 
The 18.8 percent duty on women's cotton suits is drop­ping by half over 10 years, but the 12.2 percent duty on cotton dresses is going down less than a percentage point. 
Duties are being halved on men's wool suits. And if the suit is a synthetic-wool blend, the entire duty -77.2 cents a kilo­gram plus 20 percent of the suit's value -will be elimi­nated. 
Several bargains await the shopper at the sporting goods store. The 20 percent duty on hockey gloves is going, as is the 15 percent duty on inner tubes. 

,~asyli,~t~ 
Super Saver Prices on Roses · Balloon Bouquets k Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 

(219)277-1291 
1995-96 R.A. APPLICATIONS Are Now Available 
Office of Student Affairs 315 Main Building 
Through Friday, January 13, 1995 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, December 1, 1994 
a result, the Serbs have won, 
and we have, in effect, declared defeat. 
Bosnia Israel recognizes same-sex couples 
continued from page 1 
"It makes you wonder about the security alliance," he said. "If no one is willing to make a commitment, then what is the point of keeping the alliance?" 
Prior to 1989. NATO served to unite the Western countries against the common threat of the Soviet Union, but with that threat gone, the organization lacks the importance that once made its members willing to support each other. 
"Right now, NATO members have no common enemy, and the result has been very fun­damental differences in poli­cy," McAdams said. "NATO only works if the U.S. makes the same sacrifices as the Europeans," he continued, "but will the American public stand for sending 18-year-olds to Bosnia? No way." 
The U.S. has said to France and Great Britain that they should make the sacrifices in Bosnia because they are closer geographically to the conflict, according to McAdams. But the allies contend that if Washington continues to esca­late the rhetoric and the bombings, the only conse­quence will be the death of French and British soldiers. 
"The risks are greater for the Europeans," he said. "The conflict is closer, and the in­vestment in human lives is greater." The Serbs have been more determined to pursue the struggle than the West, despite the threats of increased military action from the United Nations and NATO, said McAdams. 
"They have been committed to fighting to the end," he said. "They called our bluff, and as 
"We've gotten to the point where we've recognized that the Serbs have won the war," he added. "Now we're looking for the easy way out." The easy way means making con­cessions to the Serbs that would not have been tolerated several months ago. 
"Everyone agrees that a resolution will end the fighting quickly, but it will be unjust," McAdams said. What the con­flict now amounts to is dam­age control. "NATO and the 
U.N. have determined that it is not worth sacrificing lives for a just settlement that doesn't seem possible," McAdams said. 
Although the war in Bosnia may be nearing its end, per­manent peace won't come to the Balkans anytime soon, McAdams said. "There may be more war in Croatia, because the Serbs already control cer­tain areas there," he said. Fighting may also begin in Albania. 
Yugoslavia did not have to break up, said McAdams. "The 
U.S. was timid at first. We thought we could handle the Serbs," he said. "But if we had been tougher early on, then the Serbs might not have been as aggressive." 
President Clinton should not be held responsible for how this crisis ended, hesaid. "Clinton has not handled it well," he said. "He has aggra­vated it by not making firm de­cisions, but it's not his fault." 
Is Bosnia NATO's final rest­ing ground? No, said McAdams. "It's not the death of NATO, but it's hard to see how NATO will ever rally around a common again," he said. 
t-lappy 21st Bi ay Amy ~oVtsev-
THE NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTING AssociATION 
& 
BETA ALPHA PSI 
cordially invite you to hear 
CROWE CHIZEK 
speak about 
Auto Dealership Accounting 
Thursday, December 1st 6:30p.m. Room 122 Hayes Healy 
Pizza and refreshments will be served following the presentation! 
By DAN PERRY 
Associated Press 
TEL AVIV 
The Supreme Court handed Israel's gay community a major victory Wednesday in a land­mark ruling recognizing same­sex couples. 
The 50-page decision forces the national airline El AI to grant the boyfriend of flight at­tendant Jonathan Danielevitz the annual free tickets and other benefits due heterosexual partners of its workers. 
The case had wound its way up Israel's court system for five years, reaching the Supreme Court after El AI appealed a re­gional labor court ruling in fa­vor of Danielevitz. 
El AI spokesman Nachman Kleiman said the company would "honor and abide by the decision in its entirety." He said there was no precedent for El AI extending the rights to un­married couples. 
No reaction was available from Danielevitz. Press reports say he has lived with his 

unidentified partner for 15 years. 
Gay rights activists said the ruling would have widespread significance in Israel, which remains a relatively conserva­tive society on homosexuality. 
"This will affect all walks of life.... We will try to apply this decision to other areas," said Ilan Shenfeld, a leading gay rights activist. 
Shenfeld said he has been unable to arrange a joint mort­gage or dental insurance with his homosexual partner, whom he wed in a legal contract not recognized as marriage by the state. 
Shira Dunevich, Danielevitz's lawyer, said most Israeli homo­sexuals are still in the closet. 
"But we know more and more gays are coming out ... and this will help them hold their heads high," she said. 
One case that could be af­fected is that of Adir Steiner, who has unsuccessfully sought pension rights from the army after the death two years ago of his gay lover, army medical of-fleer Col. Doron Meisel. 
"There is no more reason in Israel to discriminate against homosexuals," Steiner told Is­rael Radio. He said he hoped Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin "will make a courageous deci­sion and accept my request for rights." 
Wednesday's ruling buoyed the gay community, shocked last month by the murder of Yeshayahu Demner, an AIDS­infected professor at the Tech­nion college in Haifa. 
Police said Demner spent the last year of his life trying to in­fect hundreds of partners and was likely killed by one of his victims. 
Gay rights issues could ad­versely affect Rabin's efforts to widen his narrow parliament majority by alienating potential religious coalition partners. 
Rabbi Moshe Maya, a legisla­tor from the religious Shas Party, said the Supreme Court ruling gave official sanction to homosexuality and could en­courage youth to adopt a gay lifestyle. 


~.... .. ·•··.·.S•·•.•.··········.···T····•.··
.· 
U·u··i¥·.·-.-­
... 

GRADUATE • UNDERGRADUATE 
STUDY ABROAD • HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAMS 

Thursday, December 1, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page? 
Scientists discover obesity gene 
By MALCOLM RITTER turn may lead to new treat­years. Associated Press ments for obesity, he said. The researchers suggest that 
He and others will look to see in its normal form, the gene
NEW YORK if mutations in the human gene lets fat cells produce a protein 
After a 40-year search, scien­are associated with obesity. that acts on the brain. tists have found a gene for obe­While mutations in the mouse The more fat an animal has, sity in mice and a likely coun­gene produce extreme fatness, this theory suggests, the more terpart in humans -discover­more subtle flaws in the human protein reaches the brain. So if ies that could someday help gene may contribute to more an animal gets too fat, an un­people control their weight. common degrees of obesity in usually high amount of the pro­
It is the first gene ever iso­people, he said. tein alerts the brain, which lated that clearly participates orders less eating, more burn­in the normal process of Friedman, an associate in­ing of calories or some other regulating weight, scientists vestigator with the Howard corrective measures. If the ani­said. Hughes Medical Instititute at mal gets too lean, the resulting 
In its normal form, the mouse Rockefeller University in New low level of the protein makes 
gene appears to let fat cells tell York, and colleagues report the the brain order steps to fatten the brain how obese the animal discoveries in Thursday's issue up. is, so that the mouse will adjust of the journal Nature. Bouchard said scientists had 
its feeding and activity to keep The work is "of great signifi­thought for 30 or 40 years that its weight steady. cance," and scientists will such a protein existed, and now 
But that system goes awry move quickly to see if it can they have "a real candidate to when the gene is flawed. Mice shed light on human obesity, test." lacking a normal version of the said Claude Bouchard of Laval Scientists are now looking for gene get so fat they weigh University in Quebec City, this substance in the blood of three times more than their Canada, an expert on genetics animals and seeing if infusions siblings, said researcher Dr. of obesity. of it will affect an animal's ap­Jeffrey Friedman. Many genes help control petite and weight, Friedman 
He and colleagues also found weight in humans and other said. 
a human gene that strongly re­animals, he said. When a mouse has only a sembles the mouse obesity Although researchers had flawed gene, fat cells can't send gene, and it may play a similar known since 1950 that a muta­the normal protein signal, so role in people, Friedman said. tion in the newfound gene the brain keeps ordering the 
If so, the finding could open made mice extremely fat, no­body to put on weight. "You the door to a better body had been able to isolate have an animal who's massive­understanding of how people the gene until now, Friedman ly obese who thinks he's starv­
control their weight, which in said. It took his team eight ing," Friedman said. 
Pilots cancel flights, claim planes unsafe 
Associated Press Federal Aviation Administra­tion has since barred the use of CHICAGO autopilot in icy conditions and 
About a dozen American limited holding time in poor Eagle pilots refused to fly in weather. cold, rainy weather, believing While managers agreed with planes like the one that crashed the pilots who complained in Indiana last month are about the weather Sunday and 
unsafe in those conditions, the canceled the flights, the news­Chicago Tribune reported paper said that in two or three today. other recent cases where pilots
Sixteen American Eagle complained, the company flights were canceled Sunday at deemed the weather accept­O'Hare. The airline said man­able. agement made the decision Simmons Airlines, one of after eight to 10 pilots raised three regional airlines flying questions about the weather. ATR-72s under the American Passengers were directed to Eagle banner, told the news­other airlines or later flights. paper that two pilots were 
The pilots who refused to removed from service after 
take off Sunday from O'Hare all they complained about weath­were scheduled to fly ATR-72 er. They were referred to coun­turbo-props, the same type of seling for stress, the company plane that crashed Oct. 31 in said. Indiana, killing all 68 people The newspaper quoted 
aboard, the Tribune reported. unidentified pilots as saying
The plane, which crashed on that three, not two, pilots were a flight from Indianapolis to involved in the incidents and Chicago, was flying on autopilot that the company was in effect in a holding pattern during a punishing the pilots for their 
rainstorm in freezing tempera­weather concerns. tures. The company said stress The cause of the crash has counseling was not punish­not been determined. The ment. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
R-E-S-P-E-C-T, Peace and Justice 
What you want, Baby I got it What you need, You know I got it All I'm asking for is a little respect ... . R-E-S-P-E-C-T ... find out what it means to me ... 
These words represent the chorus for a popular song sung by Aretha Franklin in the late 1960's. The songstress is pleading with her significant other to show respect for the love which she has shown him through her actions. It is fascinating to me that this song was popular during the time in which the late Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and others, were in the midst ofa battle for the civil rights of Mrican-Americans. The struggle for human dignity was extended not just to those in intimate relationships or even to those involved in the height of the civil rights movement. In "The Trumpet ofConscience" Dr. King writes; 
" ...it grows out of my experience in the ghettos of the North over the last three years-especially the last three summers. As I have walked among the desperate, rejected, angry young men, I have told them that Molotov cocktails and riffes do not solve their problems. I have tried to offer them my deepest compassion, while maintaining my conviction that social change comes most meaningfully through nonviolent action. But, they asked, and rightly so, what about Vietnam? They asked if our own nation wasn't using massive doses ofviolence to solve it's problems, to bring about the changes it wanted. Their questions hit home, and I knew that I could never again raise my voice against the violence ofoppressed in the ghettos without first having spoken clearly to the greatest purveyor ofviolence in the world today: my own government. For the sake of those boys, for the sake of this government, for the sake of the hundreds of thousands trembling under our violence, I cannot be silent." (King, 1967) 
Although this passage was written during the time ofthe Vietnam War, it can be applied to situations in our world as it exists today. Daily, not only do we hear and read about the plight ofthose in the American urban ghettos, but we also hear about those in poverty stricken, war torn countries like Mrica, India and Ireland. Dr. King, having what he called "The Drum Major Instinct", accepted the challenge of the young men on the street to use his strategy of Nonviolence to fight for the justice ofall. In this passage it is particularly noteworthy that he was able to see the value ofthe truth in which the young men on the street spoke. He respected them enough to listen in earnest to them as they expressed their innermost feelings. In that way they were able to enlighten him and challenge him to speak up for a common justice as we all should. It is in this way that Dr. King models for us the challenge ofwhat it means to live the Christian life in the midst ofturmoil. 
The season ofAdvent is upon us and in the midst ofour very busy lives under the shadow ofthe Dome, we must find the time to prepare for the coming ofthe greatest Teacher ofall time: Jesus. It is a time in which to reflect on themes such as "peace on earth" and "good will to all women and men". In the midst ofour "busyness" we must remember to express this in our everyday lives and remain prayerful for those who suffer across the oceans. 
In keeping with the reflections ofAdvent, Campus Ministry is sponsoring a series ofarticles by various people in the Notre Dame Community on the late Dr. King. Please watch for the articles in the Viewpoint section ofthe Observer beginning Dec. 5, 1994. 
Ms. Lena jefferson 
Assistant Directo 

Retreats and Special Project. 
SECOND SUNDAY OF ADVENT 

ADVENTPENANCE SERVICE Including an Opportunityfor Individual Confessions 
Tuesday, December 6, 10:00 p.m. • Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. Dec. 3  5:00 p.m.  Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P.  
Sun. Dec. 4  10:00 a.m.  Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C  


page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, December 1, 1994 
Cruise ship catches fire, sinks Chechens evacuate 
By REID MILLER 
Associared Press 
NAIROBI, Kenya 
The Italian cruise ship Achille Lauro, hijacked by ter­rorists in 1985, caught fire otT Somalia today. 
Most of the nearly 1,000 peo­ple aboard escaped in lifeboats but at least one person was reported dead. 
The ship, about 15 miles off shore, was listing badly and in danger of sinking. Eight people were injured but the fire was reported out six hours after it started, apparently in the pas­senger cabin area. 
"The ship is inclined 40 de­grees, so apparently it is lost," said Giovanni Brauzzi, a coun­selor at the Italian Embassy in Nairobi. 
Capt. Ferdinanda Lolli, a port official in Rome, said the ship was carrying 581 passengers and 404 crew. 
Most of the crew was Italian, and the passengers mainly South African, German, Dutch 

AP/Aiex Sibirny 
But the captain of the Panamanian oil ship Hawaiian King, one of the first to arrive on the scene, said "very rough" ocean swells made the rescue eiTort difficult. 
"One man has already come dead on the boat," Capt. Zacharias Kiladitis said in a ship-to-shore radio eall. 
He said his crew had rescued more than 400 people and were attempting to get on board about 200 others, still crowded into six or seven lifeboats. 
Eight people were reported injured by rescue officials in Norway. 
At least three ships were at the scene, with more on the way, including two U.S. war­ships. 
George Bennett, a spokesman for the U.N. operation in Somalia, said the Achille Lauro was 15 miles off Eil, a village 400 miles northeast of the Somali capital of Mogadishu. 
It was unclear where the res­cue ships would dock, since the nearest ports are m war­

after Yeltsin's warning 
By CHRIS BIRD 
Associared Press 
GROZNY, Russia 
Chechens facing a Russian ultimatum began packing their belongings and evacuating their capital today as military jets bombed the airport for the second time in two days. 
Russian President Boris Yeltsin warned Chechens to disarm and release all Russian prisoners by Thursday morn­ing or risk direct Russian inter­vention in their Caucasus Mountains republic. 
Chechen President Dzhokhar Dudayev, who declared his re­public's independence from Moscow in 1991, maintains that Russia is already directly involved in Chechnya's civil war. 
Moscow has openly backed the opposition to Dudayev, but denies providing military assis­tance. It says mercenaries are fighting on both sides. 
The jet attacks were the first such assault in the conflict. 
Government spokesman Movladi Udugov said four rock­ets were fired from the air today at a military airport in the district of Khankala, six miles north of Grozny. 
"Quick, go home!" a tele­phone operator told customers at a downtown post office after the roar of jets was heard. Sev­eral onlookers reported seeing two jets fly over. 
Officials said four MiGs and four Su-27s were involved in Tuesday's attack. An Associated Press reporter downtown saw three planes fly over. 
Four destroyed Tu-134 civil aircraft were smoking on the airport tarmac Tuesday after­noon. 
service as a cruise ship shortly and British. scarred Mogadishu, Somalia,after the hijacking. The Achille Lauro left Genoa and Aden, Yemen. Cause of today's fire was not on Nov. 19 and was headed for Mombassa, Kenya, the Unitedimmediately known, but res­South Africa after a stop in Arab Emirates, Djibouti and thecuers reported it was in theIsrael, said Carla Gotta, a Seychelles also were mentionedpassenger cabins, Britain'sspokeswoman for the cruise as possible destinations. Press Association said. ship's owner, Genoa-based Two U.S. warships -theAbout 60 crewmembersStarlauro. guided missile cruiser USSstayed aboard to fight theThe ship gained notoriety Gettysburg and the missileblaze, said another Italian portnine years ago when frigate Halyburton -wereofficial, Gianluca Menabene.Palestinian terrorists hijacked headed for the Achille Lauro,Reports reaching the shippingthe Achille Lauro and killed a said a spokesman for U.S.line in Italy said the firedisabled American passenger, Naval Forces Central Command appeared out six hours afterLeon KlinghoiTer. The hijackers in the Persian Gulf. the alarm sounded and the restescaped the vessel and boarded But they were 350 milesof the crew had abandoned a jet but American fighter away and wouldn't reach theship.planes forced the jet to land in scene for 10 hours. Lolli said the ship was in calm Italy and the hijackers were The ship was scheduled towaters about 130 miles south of eaptured. arrive Friday in Durban, Souththe Horn of Afriea in the IndianThe Achille Lauro resumed Africa.Ocean.  The Planner-Siegfried Players Present . A .sttllas Chfl Carol December lst, 2nd and 3rd Bring Bring7:30PM-9:00PM at Washington Hall Your Your $3.00 Tickets Available Date! Date! at LaFortune Information Desk  
Football is on hold unfff''ihe bowl game and all your Saturdays are now free. • • , (£}3 What does one do at N.D. on a typical Saturday after football season is o"er? IJ1g How ahout a0@ ~[h[}Q~[l(D with ~[la []) ~a[!)~, the group dedicated to finding the fun, non-alcoholic solution for the post-football season boredom (All freshmen will learn about this soon!) DETAILS: Meet at the JACC hockey rink at 10 PM on Saturday, December 3 for skating and refreshments. Cost: $1.00 if you ha"e your own ice skates $2.00 if you need to rent skates As always, reduced rates for Flip Side members. Call Mary (4-4904) or John (4-1410) for more details. See you at the JACCI  

-
---~-~----~-----~ 
Thursday, December 1, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 9 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Hey, I know you! 
Pangborn Freshmen Cindy Santana and Tatiana Santander converse in the cold on South Quad. 
By DAVID GERMAIN 
Associated Press 
NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y. 

Times have changed at Love Canal. Not only are people moving back into abandoned houses near the notorious chemical dump, now a devel­oper wants to build 250 new houses in the area. 
Developer Samuel Tuchman received final approval from the Niagara Falls planning board Wednesday night. 
"I think it's a great site," Tuchman said before the meet­ing. "Where else do you find 72 acres of land just ripe for devel­opment?" 
He said construction could begin within weeks. 
Twenty years ago, few were as enthusiastic about Love Canal, planned as a canal but turned into a chemical landfJ.ll in the 1940s and 1950s by 

Developer planning to build at Love Canal 
Junior Accountancy Majors 
for 
Summer Internships with Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 
Pizza and information available 7:00p.m. Thursday December 1 Notre Dame Room 

Morris Inn 
Coopers&Lybrand 
Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 
a professional services firm 

Please bring your resume with you 
Hooker Chemicals & Plastics Corp. 
In 1978, a health emergency was declared at the site after chemicals were found oozing from the soil. The government bought the houses and some 700 families were evacuated from the neighborhood. Many buildings were razed. 
Extensive testing in the late 1980s, after the dump was capped, determined that it was safe for people to move back onto abandoned land farthest from the landfill, which re­mains a prohibited area. 
Since people began moving back to Love Canal in 1991, more than 119 of the 225 sw-­viving houses have been sold, and planners are looking for retail or industrial tenants to move onto the vacant land. 
"There's still a stigma in some people's minds, but there's enough people out there willing to come back," said William Henderson, Tuchman's architect. "That piece of prop­erty is the most tested piece of property in the U.S. It's clean." 
Tuchman bought his 72 acres in an auction last year from the 
U.S. Housing and Urban Development Department. 
He said he plans to have 250 houses, plus apartment build­ings and a retail plaza built near Love Canal within two years. 
A public housing apartment complex stood there before the evacuation, so the area already has good roads, water lines, sewers and other amenities, he said. 
The houses, mostly two and 
three bedrooms, would sell for 
about $85,000. Qualified buy­
ers could obtain state subsidies 
of up to $20,000. 
A few Love Canal residents 
have said they fear new con­
struction could disturb remain­
ing chemicals in the area. But 
neighbors' main complaint ils 
that the new development 
might crowd their homes. 
"Why do we have to look at houses packed in like sar­dines?" said Catherine Hoffman, who lives across the street from the development site. 
Recycle the Observer 


lt•s Hip To Trip. 

London $438* Paris $518* Tel Aviv $770* Mexico City $198* Tokyo $845* Bangkok $935* 
f:.~·:.e~~='!'~~~tr;
chor19<-Coli for other worldwlcX dullnotlons. 
Couna1 Travel 
1153 H. Dearborn Chicago, IL 60610 
312•951•0585 
Call for a FREE . Student Travels magazine!' 
It 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, December I, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 {219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief jake P«<rs Managing Editor Bwiness Manager john Lucas Joseph Riley 
Ntw~ Ediror ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Ediror .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Mosor Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scou Mendenhall Observer Marketing Direcror ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary'• Ediror ............... Eiizab«h lkgan Controllcr .................................... :Krisren Manina 
The Observ<r is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of rhe administra­tio~ of either instirution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­tonals represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of rho Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lcners and Inside Columns pre~nt the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munny and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions lhrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• COMME LE BEURRE 
Buy stamps for smiles 
In today's wonderful econ­omy, 50 cents will not buy much. You can buy a candy bar and maybe walk out with change. You can buy two giant gumballs at the supermarket exit. You could even buy a small coffee or dry a load of laundry in some places. However, if you want to invest that 50 cents in a sure-fire stock that will not only sky­rocket in value but make some English-starved friends on the other side of the pond experi-
Dominique Schott 
ence elation as it was meant to be-buy airmail stamps! After having received them from all of those intelligent investors/life-savers, I am truly aware of the actual value of the priceless commodity. 
As I sat glancing at the pile of letters I've received, their many joys became obvious. First, finding a letter with my name on it in the small file under "S" bears excitement worth paying money for. This puts me in a good mood for the entire day. Then, comes the ripping of the letter wide open; a supplemen­tary boost of excitement, not to mention a genuine, 100 percent Acme guarantee of a happy mood. My day has been made without even reading it! 
Then, the pinnacle of all emo­tions comes with the actual reading of the letter. The effects become almost ritualis­tic. First there is the initial smiling, much like seeing an old pal from junior high in the supermarket over the holidays. Then,of course the familiar chuckle-like I haven't missed anything in my semester long absence. Then, the moment comes when I read something incredibly hilarious and let out an obnoxiously loud laugh, which compels every random person around to immediately ask, "What happened?" This not only increases my own hap­piness as well as those around me, but increases my populari­ty instantaneously. 
Then I usually go to class. With a letter in my hand and a smile on my face, I'm ready for anything. This point in the "watch for 50 cents stretch" process is what I call the "epi­demic of the smile." This is the time when my classmates ask, "Why are you so happy?" After which I explain who the letter is from, how wonderful they are, an.d how they made my day, and in the process that contagious smile starts spread­ing. All thanks to the letter and, of course, the stamps that got it here. 
Yet, this is not the death of the letter. On the contrary, after my extensive study of the 50 cent gift, I have deduced that the value of the many wis­doms, philosophies, experi­ences, and jokes, only increase. The re-reading of the letter is integral. The letter is like a fine bottle of wine, it only gets better with age. 
I have begun collecting my cellar of letters. I cherish them as moments with the writer. The ocean may separates us, but five dimes can cross it in no time-well maybe two or three weeks! Be thankful for all those who have invested that 50 cent stamp on friendship. 
Dominique Schott is a sopho­more French major spending this year in Angers. 
• I, FARRINGTON 

Real world hits new alu01s hard 
I'm just an old sentimentalist. mirth? Every other Sunday in three." They are not real old Everyone knows that now, after the season, she sits, no doubt people, you see. They are I've spilled my guts about what under a ND blanket, watching alumni, all right, but they are Clarence Carter's Patches an old TV set she activates with alumni of the last five or six means to me. But it's not just the Clapper. Would you deny years. That's why they wear Patches. The other night I was her her day of basking in Notre baseball caps and warmup going through my record col­Dame mystique? It might be suits all the time. They are the lection, weeping as I listened to her last. You never know. strapping undergrads I see on the old standards. Just Plain I often wonder who they are, campus, whose youth has been Folks was one, and it got me these senescent boosters. One sapped and withered by a few thinking about alumni. Call me afternoon this summer back years in the real world. I'm not soft, but I get misty-eyed just home in sunny Longport, N.J., I saying it will happen to you. thinking it. found myself fending off the But don't be surprised if in one queries of a garrulous oldster or two years you stop by a We're just plainfollcs, in his VFW hat, who had friend's "bachelor pad" and 
Your mother andme 

paused from it
Just plain follcs, 
replete with

telling me of ============= find 
like our own follcs used to be. 

Nazi subma­
plastic rine attacks couch cov­
-?ince our presence here just 

gnevesyou off the Jersey erings, cir­
Josh 

We'll go away_and leave you shore to cular hem­For we're sadly out ofplace here. harangue me orrhoid pil­For we'rejust plainfollcs. about Notre lows, and
Ozersky
Dame foot-~ wax fruit. It When I first heard these almost hap­
ball, and the ----============---­
deathless lyrics, I imagined four horse-pened to me. 
Grant Wood's sister and dentist men, and Ara Parseghian, and (I just don't show it, that's all.) standing, pitchfork in hand, be­no sign of stopping. I turned a *** fore an embarrassed beatnik glassy eye to the wood bureau­My friend Mr. Snitch has been 
and his scornful, worthless bound TV set (also Clapper­whispering in my ear again, friends. But now I know better. activated, no doubt) and my and here is what he tells me: They aren't American Gothic hand to God, can you guess "SHE is a lovely young fresh­figures at all, these plain folks. what was on? Edmund man living in Farley Hall. HE is They are wearing matching O'Brian, giving the game ball to a Junior living off-campus. Notre Dame warmup suits with the Gipper, and handing him They have a budding rela­enormous leprechauns on the the holy word of Fighting Irish tionship, but he is gay and only 
back; they are doddering help­football. Suddenly my head toying with her. Wise up, girl! lessly through the Oak Room, went light; I imagined an infi­There is a better match pining admiring the Columbus murals; nite continuum of old men, away for you in Dillon." they are taking pictures of one each waiting to tell me the Mr. Snitch also says: "SHE is another with trembling hands same anecdote, each stretching one of the friendliest cashiers in front of the library. They are their Hammes sweater to the in the Student Center, with alumni. bursting point with bratwurst always a glad word for the cus­
Alumni! They're a kind of and gridiron lore. tomers. Everyone whom she melancholy marvel of nature, But I have a theory. And I in­meets has their day brightened, are they not? With their base­tend to try it out. The next time EXCEPT for a friend of hers ball caps and aluminum walk­I am sitting next to one of these from back home. She envies ers, these poor souls are a alumni, or am asked directions the cashier's popularity, and spectacle only the hardest­to the Grotto, I will shoot back spreads nasty rumors about her hearted of observers could with a question of my own. and a certain jailed wideout. mock. Gramma's day in the "How old are you, uncle?" I will Sour grapes never taste sweet!" sun, with football tickets wran­say, and will not be surprised if Josh Ozersky is a graduate gled from a Nepalese graduate he shoots back with "twenty-studt;nt in history. student. Is that a fit topic for 

ACCE-NT 
Thursday, December 1, 1994 page 11 
•

Red t-lot captures aJt\other era IV\ 
•
Jlli\V\SIC with 'StoleJt\ MomeJt\ts' 
By ROB ADAMS disc are Digable Planets and their vocal Music Critic trapeze act on the song, "Flyin High in 
the Brooklyn Sky." Using their vocals as 
"Passion can be good, but we must be an extra instrument, Mecca, Knowledge, mindful of the consequences" read the and Butterfly flow mercilessly whenever liner notes of the fifth Red Hot compila­the mic is touched. With soft wah-wah tion, "Red Hot and Cool: Stolen pedal touches in the background and Moments." Red Hot has raised money Lester Bowie going off on his trumpet, for AIDS research through four other the perfect instrumental section is albums, "Red Hot and Blue," "Red Hot reached. and Dance," "No Alternative," and "Red French rapper MC Solaar takes over Hot and Country," this compilation takes things in his track, "Un Ange En on a whole new musical frontier-the Danger." With his smooth-as-creamy­fusion of hip-hop and jazz. coffee delivery and laid-back, low-vocals 
"Red Hot and Blue" focused on the approach, this man makes you forget music of Cole Porter through 20 tracks you cannot understand a word he is say­as some artists like Jody Watley and ing. Supporting him throughout is the Sinead O'Connor chose to deal with his quickly pulsating double bass played by music in a 1940's style, when Porter Ron Carter, well-known for his work was at his peak, while other artists such with A Tribe Called Quest. as Neneh Cherry and U2 used modern Michael Franti, formerly of The music. The album was released in 1990 Disposable Heroes of Hip-Hoprisy, and sold over one million copies, raising makes the track, "Positive," with his four million dollars for AIDS research. new act, Spearhead. Utilizing a slight The subsequent releases focused on harmonica influx throughout the entire dance, alternative, and country music track, Spearhead brings forth a laid­respectively, and although each album back, earthy groove. "How am I gonna did well, none were the commercial suc­live my life if I'm positive," he questions, cesses that the first album was. rapping about going to get an HIV test. 
The beginning of this jazz/ hip-hop "Red Hot and Cool: Stolen Moments" fusion craze is usually attributed to A is more than a worthy compilation of Tribe Called Quest's first album, which this music; it is a tribute to it. Bringing came out in 1989, while its critical peak together great artists results in great came about in 1993 when Guru released music and the only wonder about this his "Jazzmatazz," offering, rapping over album is how they got all these people music made by many of jazz's finest together to record it. artists. In between, however, there But beyond that, every time someone 
With the crazy lyrical flow that only
have been a number of acid jazz, hip­buys this CD, a portion of the money 
hop, and funk artists to try their luck at "You know what else adds to the frus­they can bring, The Pharcyde rap about goes to benefiting AIDS research and the sub-genre, and many wonderful tration?!fhey're building new jails this safe sex in "The Rubbers Song." that should be reason enough to buyis the new plantation," raps Natty force­Passing the mic around like a hot pota­
albums have surfaced as a result. almost anything. 
fully on the track, "Time is moving on." to, they exemplify the liner notes state­
"Red Hot and Cool: Stolen Moments" 
The excited track also features Ronny ment, "In hip-hop, you have a variety of 
is generally a dream come true for afi­
Jordan offering tender plinks on his gui­different voices." With a strong beat,
cionados of this sub-genre mixing such 
tar and Donald Byrd blowing out some catchy sampling, and skillfully chanting 
jazz greats as Herbie Hancock and 
piercing horn sections. The live feel to "AIDS is wack, AIDS is wack," the
Joshua Redman with hip-hop gods like 
the song definitely adds to the appeal of Pharcyde find a good flow in which to
Digable Planets and Guru. It is a plea­the bass thump and is an excellent advise "putting on rubbers."
surable listening experience from start 
to finish, thoroughly recognizing all choice for the first song on the disc. Corning up with the best track on the 
THE REASONS BEHIND RIOTS: 
GANG MEMBERS TELL THEIR STORIES 
OF VIOLENCE IN LOS ANGELES TODAY 
By BEVIN KOVALIK of the League of United Latin 
portance of education and they 
Assistant Accent Editor American Citizens (Lulac). will change their minds with 
"I want the audience to see time," he added. 
Growing up in south central and to hear the gang members' "I hope to introduce them to 
Los Angeles in an area infa­side of the story firsthand. my friends here at Notre Dame 
mously known as the Watts, Sure, the audience will most so that they can see that people 
Miguel Rodas witnesses things likely express anger, but I want from a similar background have 
like drive-by shootings, crack them to see why the gang mem­made it and have been able to 
houses, and gang violence ev­bers joined gangs and why they attend college," he said. 
ery day. But at age twenty with see gangs as their only alterna­"Although people like myself 
a wife and a small child, Rodas tive," Reynoso said. leave the Watts area, they don't 
is a member of the Grapestreet Reynoso, a Watts native and leave it and forget what goes 
Watts Gang himself. also a member of tonight's on," Reynoso said. "I want 
Tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the panel, organized this event in there to be a change, and I 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium a an effort to educate both the have hope for a positive 
forum will address gang ac­Notre Dame community and the future." 
tivism and violence. Miguel and Watts gang members who may The audience may experience 
three other panel members will not realize that hope and other something they will never for­
"So many times we stereotype "Education in schools will
share their experiences with alternatives exist for them. get. This forum will go deeper
gang members by saying that help students know that they
gangs and inform the audience "They're just regular people," than the front page headlines
they want to participate in a can achieve at other things be­
of the reasons people choose Reynoso said. and travel past the movie 
gang, but often the reasons are sides gangs. Many times people 
gang involvement. Both Miguel and Teresa expe­screens depicting gang vio­
much deeper than that," don't know that they are able to
Also included in the panel are rience a lot of negative peer lence. These four young people 
Gutierrez said. go to college and be all that
Teresa Romo, another active pressure and this plays a huge from the Watts will share their
One reason that kids will join they can be," Gutierrez said. 
gang member in the Watts, and role in their gang involvement, stories and describe first-hand 
gangs is to band together and Together, exposure and edu­
Doris Gutierrez, a former gang according to Reynoso. what actually happens on the 
to stand up for themselves cation is the key to helping peo­
member who is currently pur­Doris Gutierrez will serve as a streets of south central LA.
against the bullies at school, ac­ple like Miguel and Teresa, ac­suing a degree in Criminal Law contrast to the two active gang cording to Gutierrez. Also the cording to Reynoso.
at California State at Long members. She spent three Lulac will sponsor the forum
lack of communication between "Right now Miguel and
Beach. years as a gang member, but and the Center for Social
the parents and the kids factors Teresa are not interested in
"It is going to be an eye-open­has quit and she presently as­Concerns along with twelve
into the reasons why kids get getting out of the gangs, but
er," said Jose Reynoso, Keenan pires to become a sheriff or a other organizations will co­
sidetracked and involved with hopefully by coming to Notre
Hall junior and vice president probation officer. sponsor the event. 
the wrong crowd, she said. Dame, they will realize the im­


--~­

! . 
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, December 1, 1994 
-•NFL Smith and Sanders Bears eager to face Vikings 
ByRON LESKO and four disheartening years in New Orleans on Nov. 6, but
speed to rushing title 
Associated Press New Orleans, Walsh signed now are in danger of missing 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN they've got no playoff goals with the Bears last offseason. the playoffs. Associated Press then they'll go with their star MINNEAPOLIS (AP) His unbeaten streak has left They're also just one win Walsh's wish has come true.
looking for individual goals." Kramer, the high-priced free from being back in first place. IRVING, Texas The wish had him coming
Newton said Smith's primary agent. pouting on the bench. "We don't like the fact that He's 199 yards behind with concern is getting his team in back to Minnesota to play his "I think he's been real frus­we're in a little bit of a slump
four games to go. Emmitt Smith hometown team for the NFC
position for another Super Bowl trated, and I can understand now," said coach Dennis Green. 
needs a 50-yard difference per Central lead on his 28th birth­
run. that because I've been in his "But we like the fact that we game to win his fourth consec­"Barry could go down as the day. That will happen Thursday situation before," Walsh said. have the ability to win, that we utive NFL rushing title. greatest of all time but he'll night, when the surging Bears "That's really not that big of a can play against anybody that 
"If it's meant to be, fine," visit the slumping Vikings. 
have no Super Bowl rings," deal to me. I don't know if he's we face." 
Smith said. "If not, I'll take "The commissioner got my
Newton said. "Emmitt may get accepted it, but he's been bet­Minnesota's defense has been another Super Bowl ring." me into the Hall of Fame with letter in the offseason, and he ter the last couple of weeks as burned the past three weeks bySmith is chasing the one run­accommodated me very well,"
all the rings he's helped this far as going in and getting his teams with ball-control passing ner he might not be able to Walsh joked Wednesday. "We'll
franchise win." work done as far as meetings games. the same style Chicago catch, Barry Sanders of the see whether it's a happy birth­
Smith is still going strong, but and things like that." has worked to perfection under Detroit lions. not as strong as last year. He day." Walsh is not flashy, throwing Walsh. "My job is to try to win games has 1,207 yards but is averag­It already has been a remark­for more than 200 yards just Minnesota also will need a right now, not another rushing able season for Walsh and
ing only 4.1 yards per carry. once. But his shrewd decision­better performance from 
.... title," said Smith. who has been Last year he rushed for 1,486 Chicago (8-4), the surprising making compensates for his Warren Moon to rescue its bothered this year by pulled Central leader. 
yards and averaged 5.3 yards mediocre arm. and the Bears playoff hopes. The 38-year-old
hamstrings and sore shoulders. Dismissed by many after los­
per carry, his best season av­also have developed a knack for quarterback carried the Vikings But he adds that. ''I'd be lying erage in his five-year career. ing to the Vikings 42-14 in the winning close games. for two months. but has sagged
if I said I'm not looking at what "It's been a tough physical third game with Erik Kramer at Chicago has not scored more during the streak. (Sanders) does. Sure I look at quarterback, the Bears have
year," Smith said. "It seems than 22 points this season -no He threw four interceptionsthe man. He's the only one like something is always hurt­won seven of nine since then more than 20 with Walsh-but against the Jets. and had his ahead of me. But I'm really not and four in a row. Walsh has
ing." has held four teams under 10 worst game since the season­worrying about it. " "He's been taking some been the starter in each victory. points and seven to two touch­opener in Sunday's overtime 
What could hurt Smith's bid He can move to 8-0 with a
shots, some of them a little on downs or less. loss to Tampa Bay. to join Jim Brown as the only the late side," Newton said. "I win at the Metrodome, just The Bears just play better for Sacked five times by the 
rusher to win four consecutive 
see some of these guys jump up across the Mississippi River Walsh than for Kramer. Buccaneers. Moon is achingtitles is the Lions playoff and down like Butkus after they from the St. Paul high school "It's really hard to explain," and has been nagged by a sore chances. make a tackle. They're trying to where he played and the family Walsh said. "Obviously, when wrist on his throwing arm since 
The Dallas Cowboys suspect home that Jimmy Johnson
hurt Emmitt. " you have some success with a the Oct. 20 win over the 
that if Detroit gets bounced out Smith always likes to see the found late one blustery winter certain set of people you be­Packers. of the playoffs, the Lions will night in 1984. 
Philadelphia Eagles on the come very confident in those ''I'm tired," he said. "My arm feed the ball to Sanders on an Johnson was one of the few
schedule. In the last five games, people." is tired. The zip isn't there above normal basis. he's rushed 134 times for 792 persistent suitors and lured Minnesota's three-game los­because I throw a lot with my"Barry may get the ball 50 yards against Philadelphia for a Walsh to Miami, where he was ing streak has been equally wrist, so in certain types of times a game if they lose an­5.9 average. His biggest game 23-1 as a starter and won the perplexing. passes I just don't feel it. It's 
other game or two," offensive 1987 national championship. 
against them was for 237 yards The Vikings (7-5) led the divi­not a good situation for a quar­
tackle Nate Newton said. "If After two seasons in Dallas
last year on Halloween. sion by two games after beating terback." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS 1Q-6 m-sat pandora's books NO ave & Howard st 1 0-6 m-sat 233-2342 cool stuff cool store 
SOPHOMORE SIBS WEEKEND IS APRIL 7,8,&91 If you want to help plan the activities for the weekend and get involved call Andrea at (x4822) or (1-5117)1 
CORRECTION­Schindler's List showing at 
7:00 and 1 0:30 in Cushing Auditorium this Fri and Sat 
Christmas cash? We buy used Air Jordans 85-91 editions and late 70's & early 80's NIKE running shoes, pay up to $2001 1-800-873­3538 ext. 3 
National Lampoon's VACATION 8/10:30 Thurs Nile LaF Montgomery Th 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: This is ridiculous, but some­how my coat was switched with another woman's coat at the Grace formal last semester In April at Union Station. It was a black Ashley Scott long dress coat. If you think you may have the wrong coat, let me know. Liz x1277 
LOST: Bright blue Gortex jacket with green lining. Last seen at North Dining Hall. Please call Mike at x2027 wilh any information. Generous reward for its return. 
FOUND: Youth NO Ball Cap in 
Section 17, Row 51 @football 
game on 11/19 
WANTED 
RESPONSIBLE, CARING WOMAN NEEDED TO SIT FOR 7 YR., 5 YR. & 15 MOS. OLD KIDS IN OUR HOME. 2 DAYS/WEEK. 7:30AM­
5: 30PM. MCKINLEY SCH. AREA. RESPOND ASAP : SITTER P.O. BOX 778 SO. BEND 46624 
RIDERS NEEDED TO CT. 
CALL ERIN AT x5225 SOON I Music Lovers; come support the new music scene at the LOFT 
FRIDAY 9:00PM LAFORTUNE BALLROOM $1 
NEED HELP: FEMALE N.D. GRADUATE OR LAW STUDENT TO HOUSE SIT WITH 17-YEAR OLD FEMALE. APPAOX. 6 DAYS PEA MONTH BEGINNING MID JANUARY. CALL 219-277-5762 
COFFEEHOUSE LOVERS UNITE great music, great coffee (free), and great people. Come meet new peo­ple and relax to soothing music and entertaining readings. Have you seen who's playing see the personals.. ??? 1-7757 
9:00 PM the Huddle. Tonight!!! BE THERE Ill 
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK 
•g51 LOWEST PRICES! JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLORIDA, PADRE. BOOK EARLY AND SAVE $$$1 ORGANIZE GROUP,TRAVEL FREEl SUN SPLASH TOURS1­800-426-7710 
ATTENTION AMBITIOUS, SELF­
MOTIVATED Students. The ColorWorks Collegiate Painters is currently interviewing students for Summer '95 management posi­tions. Earn money in excess of $10,000. Call now, 1-800-477-1001 for a campus representative. 
WANTED PARTTIME LAB TECH 
WITH CG EXP. SEND RESUME TO BOX 4103 SOUTH BEND IN 46634 
Need an used 35:70 AF lens Minolta Maxxum preferred Call1-8245 
Wanted! Individuals and Student Organizations to Promote SPRING 
BREAK '95. Earn substantial 
MONEY & FREE TRIPS. CALL 
INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS 1­
800-327-6013 
FOR RENT 
Zepfest House '95-96. Free maid serv., sand V-ball ct.,6-bedrm. 
273-0482 234-3831 
2 BLOCKS SOUTH OF CAMPUS! 2BR+ house avail. NOW for spring. $400/mo. 287-9043 NEAR CAMPUS HOMES FOR RENT 95-96 SCHOOL YR 2322595 
Looking for one female roommate for Turtle Creek townhouse, Jan­May '95. $187.50 per month plus utilities. Call Jen @272-8092 
Looking for a male/ female room­mate in Castle Point. $ 280 + utili­ties, For Sp/95 272-1663 
Roommate needed for spring sem. 254-0317 
6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. FALL 95. 272-6306 
1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL­ABLE NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 
Bed 'N Breakfast Registry ­Private Homes JPW, Graduation 219-291-7153 
WANTED: 5 students for beautifully remodeled home-Huge yard with oversized deck, security system, washer, dryer. 5 blocks from main circle. Available NOW for 2nd semester. 277-0636 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Early Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise, 6 days & 12 meals $2791 Panama City Oceanview Kitchens $129! Cancun & Jamaica $3991 Daytona $159! Keys $2291 CocoaBeach $159! 1­800-678-6386 
EA HOCKEY for IBM 
1994 players with trades, etc... almost brand new, has all books and the registration form. best offer; call Tom at 4-1712 
FOR SALE: BRICK DUPLEX, 129 WAKEWA, North Shore Triangle, 1 mile from NO, 288-6990 
For Sale: Great Dorm Fridge-$55 Small Microwave-$45 4X3243 
STEREO: am/fm, dual cass. w/ remote $100 (neg) Call Staph x4058 Mattress and frame in excellent condition-{)nly used this semester. 273-5176 Kathleen 

COMPUTER FOR SALE I 
486sx Gateway 2000 Hardly used, top name brand computer. Includes svga monitor, IBM printer, and $800 in software. Invested over $2500, will sell for only $9251 Call Ryan at 273-5326. 
OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. 
Call (616) 946-0700. 

PERSONAL 
WANTED: 6 Dirty-Filthy-Women to Attend Dec. 3 X-Mas Formal. Are You Filthy Enough? Call x4076. Ask for Bob F. Roberts. 
• A CHRISTMAS CAROL • A Siegfried/Fianner Production DEC.1,2,3 @Washington Hall, 7:30pm -tkts on sale LaFortune for $3­
AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! for the Widow Ranter will be 11/30 and 1211 from 7-10 pm in Nieuwland 284. Signups outside Nieu-316 or in Wash. Hall Green Room. All are welcome. To be performed 3/2/95 and 3/4/95. AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! 
Attention upperclassmen: 
If you're an outgoing, sensitive kinda guy and interested in meeting cute NO "chics," then lind some friends, dress yourselves up in red, and sit in front of the TV in the 1st floor of LaFortune on Thurs. at 10:30pm. Who knows? Maybe we'll invite you to our dance! 
AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! The Farley Hall Players are producing MEDEA! Come Audition tonight in 116 O'Shag from 7-9. Lots of actors needed. AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! 
SOPHOMORE MALE SEEKS 
OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING FOR SPRING SEMESTER. CALL SEAN 703-931-6864 OR PAGE ME AT 1­800-706-3255. 
Hey, SMC Sophs! Thanks for cheering with me! Keep in touch! GAADBOY (repeat) 
Come and Bare it All These people are; BRENDAN BAYLISS EMILY LORD ROB CORLEY JOHNZACK DOUG McKENNA MARK LANG JEANINE WYNTON AARON DUNN DAVE CURRAN KATE TELESCA at Acoustic Cafe Tonight in the Huddle 9:00p.m there's still room for you if you dare!lllllll (cool) 
Anyone need a ride to Colorado for Christmas break? x1148, Bob 
Cherub, stay? Felix. 

21.21.21.21.21.21.21.21. Give Isabelle Mitura a "Booty Call" at 4717 to wish her a Happy 21111 
21.21.21.21.21.21.21.21. 
Isabelle: 

Don't you worry your pretty little head off tonight. Your mom says just keep your "DONGY" to yourself this evening. 
Love, your CJs regulars 
Yeah Lewis 4W 

Bygones from yesterday... ! think. Nonetheless, I continue to walk Along the large pickle ridge That overlooks my life. Who needs sympathy? Or, for that matter, who needs Raw Bologna! Look at what I gave; It was everything. Look at the novaculite; It reeks like Arkansas. But I will still run forlornly to my Pathetic abode. 
Be sure to wish a happy belated 20th birthday to CAROLYN KEIPERIII If you KANT bring yourself to HUME her a birthday tune, at least be a PRINCE and tell her happy birthday!!! 
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break Sailing Cruisel Free brochure 1 (800)359-9808 
HEY EVERYBODY GET YOUR SHOPPING DONE EARLY AND GO TO CHICAGO 
ON SAT. DECEMBER 3. BUS WILL LEAVE CCE AT 10AM 
AND BE BACK BY 8PM TICKETS ARE 1 0 DOLLARS AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK sponsored by junior class council 
............................................... 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents: 
UNCOMMON WOMEN AND OTHERS by Wendy Wasserstein 
Directed by Kim M. 

This Friday and Saturday, Dec. 2 and 3 at 8:00. Lab Theatre, Washington Hall (Third Floor) 
Happy birthday to you, Happy birthday to you, Happy belated birthday dear CAR­OLYN KEIPER, Happy birthday to you! Hey Keiper, sorry this is slightly belated, I guess I was just too busy reading my Don Quixote! I hope you have a great year! Love, KC (your favorite fellow Hesburgh stairwell chatter "You know you're not supposed to be in the stairwell girls!) 
Hey everyone-If you happen to see CAROLYN KEIPER at the computer lab today, wish her a happy belated 20th birth­day!! If you KANT bring yourself to HUME her a birthday tune, at least be a PRINCE and tell her happy birthday!! KEIPER's 20 KEIPER'S 20 KEIPER'S 20 KEIPER'S 20 
in response to red clothing cute chicks ad; meet mr. blue and mr. orange downstairs at irish gardens 11 pm thurs. we'll be wearing all black with black sun glasses. ps, mr. pink will let you know of further details 
Morgs, 

I must be very, very careful, you knows. Don't get too wild this weekend!!! KY • ._1 
Clipper 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif.·. 
The Los Ange)es have had to settle for a lot moral victories this season. Sooner or later, they vow, ingdef'eat for they're actually going to win a who trailed the game. Nets by three 
The Clippers rallied from 2l seconds leftwhen points down to force overtimerr:< {i;p Tuesday night against. Golde.ll ' . 
State. They outrebounde~.ij ···~ 
outhustled and generally out·n~. played the Warriors after half-'rfi V,. time. 
But the result was yet anoth­er loss, their 13th in a row. The Clippers are now just four losses away from the NBA record for defeats at the start of a season, a mark set by the expansion Miami Heat in 1988. 
"We've been right in there," said Tony Massenburg, who had 17 points and a career-
T-wo essential ingredients for a perfect date: 
A date and this. 

It's everywhere® )IOU "\\v"ant to be 

©Visa U.S.A. Inc. 1994 
page 13 

• COllEGE fOOTBAll 
Cooper may leave OSU 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Ohio State coach John Cooper, with one year remain­ing on his contract, has inter­viewed for the head coaching job at Louisiana State and pos­sibly at Oklahoma. 
Cooper met in Atlanta on Tuesday with LSU athletics di­rector Joe Dean, who received permission from Ohio State to talk to Cooper. LSU fired Curley Hallman after a 4-7 season that lowered his four-year record to 16-28. 
The Fort Worth Star­Telegram reported today that Cooper interviewed for the Oklahoma job Monday. The newspaper said Cooper is among five coaches the school is considering to succeed Gary Gibbs. 
Oklahoma athletics director Donnie Duncan was not in his office today and was unavail­able to comment, a secretary said. 
Gibbs will coach his final game Dec. 29, when the Sooners play Brigham Young in the Copper Bowl in Tuscon, Ariz. 
Ohio State athletics director Andy Geiger said Tuesday he will make a recommendation on Cooper's status this week. 
Cooper said he has met sev­eral times with Geiger and will meet with him again about his contract, which expires Dec. 31, 1995. 
"I d.on't want to get into specifics," Cooper told The Columbus Dispatch. Cooper was in his oflke today, but his secretary said he was not im­mediately available to talk. A message was left seeking com­ment. 
Cooper told the Dispatch and The (Cleveland) Plain dealer that he was one of several peo­ple LSU was considering. 
"They haven't offered me the job," he said. He also said he wasn't look­ing for another school. 
"I haven't had my resume out there seeking other jobs. LSU approached me. You have to keep your options open," he said. 
Dean said in a statement that the interview went well and he was impressed, The Plain Dealer reported. Calls to LSU's athletic department were not answered Tuesday night and this morning. 
Ohio State and Cooper are negotiating a contract exten­sion, but no agreement has been reached. 
"We're making progress, I 
think," Geiger said. 
The Plain Dealer, however, 
reported that two sources said 
Cooper was not pleased with 
the discussions. It did not iden­
tify the sources. 
Ohio State apparently has 
been unwilling to offer Cooper 
more than two additional years, 
the newspaper said. 
The Akron Beacon Journal 
quoted an unidentified source 
as saying Cooper "was pumped 
up" about the LSU interview. 
"Things had not progressed 
here as far as his contract goes, 
and I know that was a con­
cern," the source said. 
Geiger said he's been happy 
with the football program's 
progress. 
Cooper has the best record in 
the Big Ten Conference the last 
three seasons with an overall 
mark of 27-7-2. 
"There are always issues that 
need to be negotiated, but on 
balance you have to say the 
record has been good," Geiger 
said. 
Ohio State went 9-3 during 
the regular season, capped by a 
22-6 victory over Michigan. It 
was Cooper's only victory over 
Ohio State's rival in .seven 
years. Cooper is 54-25-4 at 
Ohio State. 
The Buckeyes will play Jan. 2 
in the Florida Citrus Bowl 
against the loser of Saturday's 
Florida-Alabama game. 
The Dispatch also reported 
that offensive coordinator Joe 
Hollis would be interviewed to­
day for the head coaching job 
at Mississippi, where Joe Lee 
Dunn was fired in July amid an 
NCAA investigation. 
The newspaper said ....,...
Mississippi officials were ex­j pected to invite as many as five l finalists to their campus this jweekend. 
l 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
-
t t 
• 
i t 
I 

Kate Sobrero put Holly Mantei's corner kick into the net for Notre Dame's goal in its1-0 semifinal win over Portland. 
Thursday, December 1, 1994 
Story 
continued from page # 
season-long successes may out­weigh single-game shortcom­ings. 
"People are still coming up to me and telling me that they're sorry we lost the champi­onship," senior Jodi Hartwig said. "But I really don't have any regrets. It would have been great to win the champi­onship, but I'm more than happy with how the season turned out." 
The Irish lose just two play­ers from this year's starting line-up, Hartwig and co-cap­tain Tiffany Thompson. North Caolina, on the other hand, loses ten seniors. 
Another strong recruiting class and the potential return of All-American Ragen Coyne and starting defender Julie Vogel from injuries will keep the Irish near the top of next year's pre-season polls. 
But, the post-season is where Irish eyes are focusing. 


All-Americans Cindy Daws and Tisha Venturini can't escape each other. Freshman Kate Sobrero was one of five Irish players on the all-tournament team. 
BIOS J04L 01 1406 ENOL 301 oz 1210 GOVT 461 01 J705 MBA 6J6 05 40JO PLS J46 01 1999 THEO zoo 07 0656 BIOS 404 01 JZ58 ENOL JIO 01 124Z GOVT 49ZC 01 IZJ5 MBA 640 01 40JZ PLS J8Z oz 1488 THEO zoo 08 1691 BIOS 407 01 OJ98 ENOL Jll oz 1239 GOVT 49ZE 01 3708 MBA 640 oz 40JJ PSY Zll 01 1901 THEO zoo II 068Z
DART 
CAPP JOJ 01 Z761 ENOL JI2 01 1238 GOVT 49ZK 01 J713 MBA 646 oz 40J5 PSY ZIIA OJ 1946 THEO zoo 14 Z4J6 CAPP Jl6 01 087J ENOL 316F 01 Z965 GOVT 495 01 4230 MBA 672 oz 09Z7 PSY 341 01 0619 THEO zoo 18 23Z7 
CLOSED SECIIQ~S AS QE 
CAPP JJI 01 0965 ENOL 319 01 J601 GOVT 678 01 J734 MBA 68Z 01 1058 PSY J41 OJ J905 THEO ZZI oz 4178 Z;QQ f,M, lllJQJ94 
CAPP J61 01 0609 ENOL J19B 01 Z970 GSC Z4J 01 J7J5 MBA 68Z oz OJ87 PSY J4Z 01 0455 THEO 234 01 1976 CAPP J85 01 42ZZ ENOL JZ1B 01 Z971 GSC JZ5 01 423J ME 445 01 138Z PSY J4Z oz 2215 THEO ZJ7 01 4179 CAPP J89 01 J505 ENOL J24 01 J60J GSC 4Z4 01 Z885 MGT 231 01 17J6 PSY J4Z OJ OZ77 THEO Z4J oz 169Z
ACCT 231 01 Z59Z CE 235L OJ 0005 ENOL JZ5 01 Z068 GSC 469 01 J747 MGT 240 01 23JO PSY J59 01 44Z7 THEO Z4JT OJ 4184
ACCT 231 oz 2399 ACCT 231 OJ Z594 
CE 235L oz 239Z ENOL 340A OJ J604 HIST lilT OJ 0901 MGT 240 oz OJ91 PSY J96A 01 4Z88 THEO 249 01 1792 ACCT J71 01 23J5 
CE 440 01 149J ENOL J72A 01 J605 HIST IIZT OJ 0690 MGT 240 OJ 0811 PSY 405 01 16JI THEO Z51 01 1050 ACCT 473 01 15ZI 
CE 444L 01 1489 ENOL J79B 01 J606 HIST 116T OJ 004J MGT 240 04 199J PSY 44Z· 01 3906 THEO Z5Z 01 13ZI ACCT 475 01 2639 
CE 470 01 ZOJZ ENOL J90 01 J607 HIST 116T 05 079J MGT Z40 05 18Z8 PSY 45J 01 1181 THEO Z6Z 01 4186 ACCT 476 oz OJ69 
CHEG JZ7T 01 0467 ENOL J91C 01 J608 HIST 116T 06 0841 MGT 413 01 OJIO PSY 46J 01 4Z97 THEO Z64 01 Jl50 ACCT 479 01 Z5JI 
CHEG JZ7T oz 099J ENOL J9JC 01 J609 HIST Z11 01 4235 MGT 472 01 Z547 PSY 470A 01 J907 THEO Z65 01 0773 ACCT 480 oz Z572 
CHEG J58 01 OZ04 ENOL 405 01 J610 HIST ZIIT 01 4ZJ6 MGT 48Z 01 1160 PSY 470B 01 J911 THEO Z70 01 4187 ACCT 481 01 Z6JO CHEG 448 01 1881 ENOL 413E 01 J615 HIST Z12 01 4ZJ7 Ml JOO 01 J8ZO PSY 487A 01 J910 THEO 272 01 4188 ACCT 485 01 IOJO 
CHEM IZOL OJ Z70Z ENOL 415E 01 Z8J4 HIST ZI2T 01 4ZJ8 Ml J09 01 Z725 PSY 488A 01 J9IZ THEO Z84 01 4189 AFAM JZ9 01 Z840 CHEM Z04 01 Z709 ENOL 416C 01 J618 HIST 240 01 4J61 Ml JIZ 01 J8ZI PSY 488B 01 4Z99 THEO Z85 01 4190 AFAM 35Z 01 34Z9 
CHEM Z48 01 1311 ENOL 4Z8B 01 4229 HIST Z61 01 J759 Ml 4J7 01 4Z18 PSY 565 01 1166 THEO Z90 01 ZOIJ CHEM Z48L 01 ZOO I ENOL 440 01 J6ZZ HIST JOZ 01 J760 Ml 44J 01 J8Z8 RLST ZOI 16 9516 THEO J75B 01 4JZ9
AFAM 454 01 Z729 CHEM 5ZZ 01 0439 ENOL 45IA 01 J623 HIST J06 01 J761 Ml 511 01 J8J6 RLST ZOI 18 9518 THEO J96 01 0994AFAM 486 01 34JJ 
AL ZIZ 01 0095 COAJ 11Z 01 J513 ENOL 479A 01 J6Z7 HIST 309 01 Z72J Ml 560 01 J844 RLST Z61 4Z 954Z THEO 429 01 4194 AL ZIZ 08 1476 COAJ liZ oz J514 ENOL 491 01 J6JO HIST J09A 01 Z724 Ml 590 01 J847 RLST J51 56 9556 THEO 4J7 01 4196 COAT Z40 01 J519 ENOL 491A 01 3631 HIST JZOA 01 J76J Ml 595 01 J848 RLST J70 58 9558 THEO 460 01 4197
AL ZIZ 14 0916 
AL ZIZ 16 1666 COAT 340 01 J5ZO ENOL 492C 01 3632 HIST J42A 01 Z658 MSCI Zl2 oz ZZ6Z ROFR IOJ oz IZ90 THTR 135 58 9758 COAT 45Z 01 J5ZJ ENOL 493 01 J634 HIST 359 01 J765 MSCI JIZ OJ Z478 ROFR 31Z 01 1470 THTR ZJO 60 9760
AL ZIZ 18 OJOO 
COCT 306 01 3539 ENOL 496E 01 3635 HIST J72A 01 Z744 MUS zzo 01 1575 ROFR J72 01 Z447 THTR Z76 64 9764
AL ZIZ 19 1594 
AL Zl2 21 1610 
COCT 307 OJ 3540 ENOL 563 01 3641 HIST 413A 01 3768 MUS 220 oz J852 ROFR 4Z6 01 J925 AL 212 28 1555 
COCT J4Z 01 3541 AN 231 01 2146 HIST 415A 01 J769 MUS ZZ2 01 0800 ROIT 106 01 IZ94 
COCT 4Z6 01 354Z FIN 231 03 0128 HIST 4ZZA 01 4Z40 MUS Z25 01 IOZZ ROIT 236 01 4JZZ CLASSES THAI WILL
AME 700 01 2549 
COCT 460 01 3543 AN 231 04 2497 HIST 4JIA 01 3773 MUS Z26 01 1729 ROSP IOZ 04 2076 REQfU! AI Z:QQ f,M,AMST zso 01 4334 
AMST ZBZ 01 3435 COMM 103 05 9705 AN 231 05 15Z5 HIST 454 01 Z728 MUS Z29 01 J85J ROSP 102 05 25ZI J1JJ.J!M. AMST 3ZIE 01 3436 
COMM 103 07 9707 FIN 231 06 1697 HIST 454A 01 2727 PHIL lOt 01 Z496 ROSP 103 oz 0653 
COMM 103 09 9709 FIN 231 08 ZZI6 HIST 460 01 Z6J6 PHIL lOt 03 0208 ROSP IOJ 04 OZ98 ACCT 231 oz 2399AMST 347H 01 2726 
AMST 348H 01 Z635 COMM ZIO 16 9716 FIN 231 09 2192 HIST 460A 01 Z637 PHIL 101 04 19Z8 ROSP IOJ 05 1381 ACCT 481 01 Z6JO AMST J60 01 J439 
COTH Z04 oz Z849 AN 231 II 2110 HIST 46J 01 J779 PHIL 101 06 1498 ROSP IOJ 08 0741 AL Zl2 ZI 1610 COTH Z05 02 Z8J7 AN J60 01 236J HIST 468A 01 J78J PHIL 101 07 4Z5Z ROSP 231 oz 0166 ANTH J65 01 345J
AMST 407E 01 J441 
AMST 45ZH 01 J44J 
COTH Zll 01 0737 AN J60 OJ 069J HIST 469A 01 J785 PHIL IOIT 05 4Z57 ROSP ZJI OJ ZZ71 ARHI 451 01 Z9J5 AMST '158E 01 Z966 
COTH J89 01 J550 FIN J6I 04 OZ90 HIST 475A 01 J788 PHIL IOIT 06 4Z58 ROSP ZJI 04 zooz ARST 29ZS 01 05Z6 COTH 413 01 J551 AN 361 05 156Z HIST 485A 01 J791 PHIL IOIT 07 4Z59 ROSP 23Z 01 1756 BA 39Z oz OJ59
AMST '168H 01 J444 
AMST 469H 01 3445 COTH 453 OJ 3554 FIN 370 01 1786 HIST 487A 01 J79J PHIL JOlT 08 4260 ROSP 23J 01 1738 BA 490 OJ 1675 AMST 495E 01 J004 COTH 474 01 J556 FIN J70 oz 0197 HIST 598 01 1660 PHIL IOIT 09 4Z61 ROSP 235 01 094J BA 490 oz 0169 COTH 477 01 3557 AN J70 OJ 0457 liPS 49J 01 J99J PHIL IOIT 10 4Z6Z ROSP 236 01 OIJJ CAPP J89 01 J505
ANTH JZ8 OJ 2660 
ANTH JZ9 01 Z84Z COTH 481 · OJ 06ZI FIN 46Z oz 1878 liPS 6J4 01 J999 PHIL Z01 01 2Z99 ROSP 236 oz 39J8 CE 440 OJ l49J ANTH 330 01 IOZ5 
CSE ZZJL 01 1765 AN 474 01 0668 LAW 59ZA 01 10Zl PHIL ZOl oz 2245 ROSP 238 01 0715 COTH 204 oz Z849 CSE ZZIL OZ 0808 FS 180 01 IZ96 LAW 605 01 0094 PHIL ZOI OJ 0067 ROSP JIO 01 Z408 COTH 474 01 J556
ANTH J4Z 01 J450 
ANTH J61 01 3452 
CSE Z21L OJ ZI07 FS 180 oz 1598 LAW 608 01 170J PHIL 201 04 15Z9 ROSP 319 01 0176 CSE 221L 01 1765 ANTH 365 01 345J 
DESN ZI7S 01 OZII FS 180 OJ Z24J LAW 615C 01 13Z8 PHIL ZOI 06 04Z7 ROSP JZ9 01 1177 ENOL 319 01 J601 ANTH J8Z 01 3455 
DESN Z8ZS 01 0726 FS 180 IZ 1184 LAW 6JIF 01 0989 PHIL ZOI 07 2310 ROSP JZ9 oz J9J9 FIN 231 OJ OIZ8 ANTH 423 01 3458 
DESN Jt9S 01 J49J FS 180 zz 0856 LAW 64J 01 Jt69 PHIL 201 08 Z4Z9 ROSP 495 01 ZOOJ AN 231 04 Z497 ANTH 448 01 3459 
ECON IZAT 04 J572 FS 180 Z5 0096 LAW 658A 01 ZJJJ PHIL 222 01 1409 ROSP 499 01 0950 FIN 231 05 1525 ECON IZBT 07 J584 FS 180 Z6 0695 LAW 686A 01 J172 PHIL ZZ5 01 Z769 RU 496 01 J657 FIN 360 03 069J
ARCH Z44 01 23Z8 
ARCH Z44 OJ 0731 
ECON IZBT 08 J585 FS 180 JO 0139 LAW 695 01 0807 PHIL Z26 oz J865 soc zoz 01 0117 GOVT 242T 05 J674 ARCH 444 03 Z616 
ECON IZBT 09 3586 FS 180 Jl 0498 LAW 695 oz 1208 PHIL Z27 01 2371 soc ZOZA 01 J946 HIST 2II 01 4235 ARCH 566 01 J155 
ECON Z24 01 1329 FS 180 JB 2287 LAW 695 OJ 0776 PHIL 240 01 4Z81 soc 205 01 J947 HIST 2IIT 01 4236 ARCH 58Z 01 JI57 ECON Z25T 01 J560 FS 180 40 Z537 LAW 695 04 OJ6J PHIL 241 01 4282 soc Z20 01 1842 HIST JZOA 01 J76J ARCH 584 01 JI58 
ECON 225T 02 J561 FS 180A OJ J648 -LAW 695 05 I77J PHIL 241 03 4284 soc 242 01 Z823 HIST J72A OJ Z744 ECON 225T 05 J564 FS 180A 04 J649 LAW 695 06 0025 PHIL 242 01 J866 soc 24Z 02 Z6JJ HIST 475A OJ J788
ARCH 585 01 Jl59 
ARHI 451 01 Z9J5 
ECON 225T 06 J565 FS 180A 06 J65I LAW 695C 01 2191 PHIL Z4Z oz J867 soc JOO 01 2375 MATH 226T 06 0892 ARHI 461 01 3478 
ECON ZZ5T 07 J566 GE 102 01 Z090 MARK 231 04 0059 PHIL 24J 01 J868 soc JOO oz J9'19 MGT 240 05 1828 ARST 1345 01 0019 
ECON ZZ5T 08 J567 GE 10Z 02 1453 MARK 231 08 4018 PHIL 244 01 0004 soc JOJ 01 Z760 MGT 413 01 0310 ARST 23ZS 01 OZ80 
ECON 225T 09 3568 GE 102 OJ 0986 MARK 231 09 4019 PHIL 245 01 2734 soc 346 01 2736 Ml 309 01 Z725 ARST 2465 01 0974 
ECON 301 oz 0788 GE 313 01 2508 MARK 370 01 18J6 PHIL 246 01 1335 soc J48 01 J951 PHIL 201 oz ZZ45 ARST 2485 01 0592 
ECON J03 01 IJ26 GEOS 142 01 Z655 MARK 371 01 40ZO PHIL 247 01 3869 soc J70 01 106J PHIL 201 03 0067 ARST Z89S 01 3486 
ECON JIZ 01 3587 GEOS 14ZL 01 Z64J MARK 374 01 23Z4 PHIL Z55 01 4Z85 soc 374 01 2093 PHIL 201 08 2429 ARST 29ZS 01 05Z6 ECON 315 01 059J GEOS 142L OJ 2219 MARK J82 01 40ZI PHIL Z55 oz 4Z86 soc 375 01 1110 PHIL 241 01 4Z82 ARST Z97S 01 3487 
ECON 406 01 3588 GEOS 24ZL OZ ZZZ8 MARK 487 01 4023 PHIL 256 01 3870 soc J90 01 3952 PHIL 247 01 J869 
ECON 413 01 3589 GOVT Z40 01 3665 MARK 492 01 1578 PHIL Z61 01 0490 soc 419 01 2795 PHIL 255 01 4Z85
ARST 326S 01 0295 
ECON 447 01 3591 GOVT 240 02 3666 MARK 493 01 0992 PHIL 261 oz 06Z9 soc 424 01 Z884 PHIL 255 oz 4286RA 363 01 0357 
ECON 451 01 1755 GOVT Z42T 01 J670 MATH IOJ 01 1820 PHIL 265 OJ 387J soc 4J8 01 J9S4 PSY 470A 01 J907
RA J63 oz 1964 
BA 39Z 01 Z446 
ECON 487 01 1438 GOVT Z42T 02 J671 MATH 2Z6T OJ 0924 PHIL 266 OJ J871 soc 462 01 4JZ5 RLST 370 58 9558 
EE 232L 01 0981 GOVT 242T OJ J672 MATH 226T 06 0892 PHIL 522 OJ 3888 STY 225 OJ Z768 ROSP 2JI 02 0166RA J92 oz OJ59 EE 2J2L 02 0764 GOVT 242T 05 3674 MBA 56J 01 0540 PHIL 6J5 OJ J893 STY 240 01 4340 ROSP 231 OJ 2271BA 392 04 4010 
EE 242L OJ 0657 GOVT 242T 06 3675 MBA 604 01 1875 PHYS 128L 02 0212 SlV 247 01 4328 ROSP 236 02 3938llA 487 01 4011 
RA 490 01 1675 
EE J54L OJ 1625 GOVT 243T 06 J684 MBA 606 01 0465 PHYS 22IL 02 2275 THEO 100 05 2248 soc 242 OJ 2823 llA 490 02 0169 
ENOL 101 01 3595 GOVT 304 OJ J687 MBA 626 OJ 4028 PHYS 222 02 1721 THEO 100 10 1967 soc 375 OJ 1110 201 01 305 3688 629 2206 PHYS 22ZL 02 IOJ9 THEO 200 OJ 0666 THEO zoo 07 0656
BA 490 03 OJ88 ENOL 0447 GOVT OJ MBA oz 
BA 0519 ENOL 201 02 J597 GOVT J16F 01 296J MBA 6J6 01 0471 PHYS 222L OJ 1061 THEO 200 02 0708 THEO 217 01 4179
490 05 
ENGL 300F 01 J598 GOVT 326 OJ J694 MBA 6J6 03 0828 PHYS 2Z2L 05 1549 THEO zoo OJ 1101 THEO 249 OJ 1792BIOS 241L 02 3253 
PHYS 222L 06 0164 THEO zoo 06 Z546
IllOS 303L 02 1171 ENOL 301 01 0854 GOVT 447 01 3704 MBA 636 04 2611 
---~ 
Thursday, December 1, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 


..
Ch . h.
.....,.. amptons ... lp moments 
Observer Photos 
by 
Michael Hungeling 


Captains Jill Matesic and Tiffany Thompson hoist the runner-up trophy. Assistant coach Carla Chin talks strategy with defender Kate Fisher. 

The Irish celebrate after their 1-0 semifinal win over Portland. Forward Rosella Guerrero eyes the open net after Portland goalkeeper Julie Voiland is taken out of the play. 

~----~ --~--­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, December 1, 1994 
• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBALL • COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Irish 

Belles deflate Hope College, win first game of the season Kelogg leads continued from page 20 
By ARWEN DICKEY 
Spons Writer 
Playing a tight game down the stretch, the 1-3 Saint Mary's basketball team picked up their first win of the season Tuesday night by defeating the previously 4-0 Hope College 75­69. 
Hope jumped out with an early 5-0 lead, but the Belles bounced back with an 18-1 run and held the lead the rest of the game. Hope kept the game close though, trailing at half­time 37-35. The Belles made several key free throws in the game helping the team stretch the lead at one time in the sec­ond half to 66-55. 
Playing a solid offensive game and changing strategies on both offense and defense helped Saint Mary's out-re­bound Hope 55-53. Freshman Julie McGill led the team in re­bounds with 11. Junior Jennie Taubenheim had nine and ju­nior Barbara Howells captured seven. 
While Hope out-shot the Belles in three-pointers 9-6, sophomore Sarah Kopperud sunk four to help out Saint Mary's. Kopperud scored in double figures with a total of 18 points along with Taubenheim's impressive tally of 31 and McGill with 14. 
"We caught them off guard," said head coach Marvin Wood, "It is very good for us to win on the road and against a good opponent." 
"Our team shot better from the outside which helped to open up the middle game and eased up the pressure." said sophomore Katy Lalli. 
"We did not give up or let down when the game got close," said freshman Brenda Hoban, "We kept working hard." 
The Belles are now looking toward their next home game against Bethel this Friday night at 6:00. 
Lalli added, "(Saint Mary's) needs to be more intense as a total unit." 

• SWIMMING 
Irish swimmers host weekend tournament 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame swimming and diving teams will host the eighth annual National Catholic Championships beginning today and running through Saturday evening. 
Notre Dame is the defending championships in both the men's and women's division with the men seeking their sixth straight title and the women their fifth. Despite the label of defending champion, head coach Tim Welsh sees this weekend as an opportunity for his teams to shine in their home pool. 
"Although some may question it, I think being the defending champion carries no pressure at all. Ou kids have the oppor­tunity to swim in a big and prestigious meet in their own backyard. It's very relaxing for our team to come into our building and race." 
The women's team has raced out to a 5-0 start with dual meet wins over Texas Christian, Brigham Young, Navy, Bowling Green, and Air Force and hope to continue their good fortunes this week­end. The Irish are coming off a 155-145 dual meet win over the Air Force Academy. 
"We attribute our women's good racing to a good set of balances," said Welsh, in his lOth year as mentor of the Fighting Irish. "Early in the year we've had a great balance between upperclassmen and underclassmen swimming their best and picking each other up. This is a confident team come race day and they've main­tained a solid balance between hard work and a great loving attitude for the sport." 
The men's squad has not fared as well in the early sea­son with an overall mark of 1-3 but all three losses have been to perennially solid clubs, TCU, BYU, and Navy. Notre Dame's men have not raced competi­tively since the November 12th matchup with the Naval Academy in Annapolis. 
"The men have worked equally as hard but have run up against three very fast teams. We are hoping and con­fident that the men will post improved times in a friendly but extremely competitive atmosphere," said Welsh. 
Welsh summarized the week­end by saying "This is the type of meet we focused on from the first day of training in the fall. Our hope is to put forth our best effort to date in front of our home fans." 

The Rolfs Aquatic Center is located adjacent to the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center on the east side of the building and admission to this weekend's events is free. 

ND/SMC Ski Club will have a mandatory meeting in 122 Hayes-Healy on Thursday, December 1 at 8:00 pm. All those trying out for the team or going to Crested Butte must attend. All payments for the trip, including race cJinic. ski rentals, and addi­tional day lift pass are due. Bring checkbooks. Any questions, call Kevin malone at 272-1352. Also, oppo­tional training resumes in Loftus today at 10:00pm. 

Minutemen to top slot 
By TRUDY TYNAN 
Associated Press Writer 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. 
The spotlight always seemed to slide past Derek Kellogg in the birthplace of basketball. 
When he was at Cathedral High School, it was Central High and its prize point guard, Travis Best, now at Georgia Tech, who got the city's atten­tion and won all the champi­onships. 
But it was the not-so-flashy Kellogg who has helped Massachusetts become the na­tion's top-ranked school by shutting down Arkansas' high­powered backcourt Friday in a 104-80 victory. 
Arkansas' guards, who thrive on turnovers, were able to force Kellogg into four miscues. He returned the favor by hold­ing the Razorbacks' Corey Beck scoreless. 
"When I recruited him they were saying on the local talk shows that I ought to be fired," coach John Calipari said after the Minutemen opened the sea­son by overpowering the Razorbacks. 
"Now Derek's the one that runs the team," Calipari said. "He even tells me what we should do during the game." 
Kellogg, who has yet to col­lect the dinner his high school coach promised to buy when he dunked in a game, has turned himself almost single-handedly into the steadying force behind the Minutemen's scrambling attack. 
"It's the job of the point guard to make sure the guys get the ball to their strengths," Kellogg said. 
that the absence of Johnson helped Purdue to play together and move the ball. 
"Our defense lost the game," McGraw said, "We made them into good shooters." 
Freshman Kari Hutchinson filled in for injured starter Mollie Peirick, contributing 8 points, 7 rebounds, and 5 as­sists. McGraw noted Hutchinson's quickness in tran­sition and ability to see the open player. 
"Kari just needs a little more patience and a lot more experi­ence." 
Notre Dame's post players showed continued strength, but had difficulty with Purdue's size. Comparing the five post players from each team, Purdue measured a full 14 inches taller. The Irish starting forwards are both six feet tall . Purdue started with two trees at 6'4". 
Attesting to the Fighting Irish spirit, the Notre Dame squad out rebounded Purdue 49-38. Six foot senior Letitia Bowen owned the boards with 14 re­bounds. 
"Notre Dame played with a lot of pressure and intensity," Dunn said, "They made the game a real battle." 
"Defense was the key to this game," said McGraw, "We scored enough points to win. This was a game we should have won." 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
rutn 
,,~,,~ , ino, J.D. 
pe.'ak on 
MS, ANS 
Peter Cicchino is Coordi Gay Youth Project of the Homeless in N graduate of Harvard .... staff attorney with th . Project of the ACLU. legal basis of recent 
Thursday, Decem ;·.· 
7:30 p. Room 126 De 
SPONSORED BY: Department of Government and I Center for Social Concerns Gender 
Graduate Student Union 
-----~~-·­
Thursday, December 1, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• GOLF 
18-year old links phenom takes a break to enjoy college 
By ANNE M. PETERSON 
Associated Press 
STANFORD, Calif. 
While Tiger Woods takes his much-needed break from golf, he won't be watching any tele­VISion. The 18-year-old Stanford freshman says he doesn't own a TV for the same reason he's temporarily re­treating from his sport. 
School comes first. 
"I didn't bring a TV because I would watch all the time and I wouldn't study," said Woods, revealing his "just a teen-ager" side. 
Woods. the youngest player and the only black to win the 
U.S. Amateur, says he needs a rest from golf -and all the at­tention he generates -until Stanford resumes tournament play in February. 
Woods knows his accom­plishments on the golf course put him in the spotlight, and it means he must grant countless interviews and make numerous public appearances. It's a nec­essary evil to a point, he notes. 
"Usually I take a break after the summer, but I couldn't do that because of college golf," he said. "So I'm taking my break now." 
At Stanford, Woods says he's just another freshman. He lives in a dormitory, the only one on campus that hasn't been reno­vated. He says the dorms aren't fitted for cable, another reason his room doesn't include a TV. 
He takes classes in civics, computers and "Portuguese Cultural Perspectives." And, of course, he hangs out with his dormmates and the other friends he's made. 
Woods spent the summer be­fore his first year of college gaining tournament wins at the Western Amateur, the Southern California Amateur and the Pacific Northwest Amateur. 
But it was his stunning U.S. Amateur win in August at the TPC Sawgrass Stadium Course at Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., that gained Woods the most recog­nition. 
The lanky 6-foot-1, 150­pound teen-ager was down by six holes after 13 holes of the 36-hole final, but came back to win over Trip Kuehne of Oklahoma State. 
He won his first collegiate tournament, the Tucker Invitational at the University of New Mexico, by three strokes. 
In October, Woods played on the U.S. Team that won the World Amateur Championships in Versailles, France. He also won the Jerry Pate National Intercollegiate tournament at Shoal Creek in Birmingham, Ala. His victory made him 2-3 in college play. Stanford won the team title at the tourna­ment. 

During a recent interview at Stanford, Woods said he did not want to discuss his experience at Shoal Creek, which once vowed never to accept black members. 
Woods is unfailingly honest. If there's a question he doesn't want to answer, or a topic he wants to avoid, he says so. There's no dancing around. 
"Once I got to know his mom and dad I felt there's got to be an exceptional kid here, and there is," said Stanford coach Wally Goodwin. "If you were up here and saw him on a day-to­day basis, you would see he's remarkable with people." 
Woods, along with the rest of his teammates, won't resurface until February when the Stanford team travels to the Big Island Invitational in Hilo, Hawaii. 
Stanford has four of five starters returning this year from the team that captured the 1994 NCAA men's title. Goodwin said the Cardinal has a good shot at repeating. 
"I think our strength is I've got five relentless guys ... They're proficient, focused, yet loveable guys. It's a very inter­esting combination," Goodwin said. 
Woods, meanwhile, seems out to prove he's not only an ex­ceptional golfer, but also a reg­ular, well-adjusted guy. 
''I'm very mellow. I'm not a guy who has a lot of mood swings -peaks and valleys ­I'm pretty stable," he said. 
And his goals? Once again, that subject is taboo. 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 
Wildcats dominate Michigan in decisive second half 
By JIM O'CONNELL as Khalid Reeves, now in the long trips with 2-1 records; Michigan missed its first six Jimmy King, who missed 10 of Associated Press NBA, scored 40 points. Arizona with a fifth-place fmish shots of the half and committed his first 11 shots from the field, The Wildcats did it with bal­in the Great Alaska Shootout, seven turnovers. and Ray Jackson, who missed AUBURN HILLS, Mich. ance this year as senior guard Michigan with a third-place fm­"At halftime it was obvious nine of his first 11, took the 
It was a close game at half­Damon Stoudamire had 24 ish in the Maui Invitational. The what our problems were: brunt of the displeasure. time, then one team's upper­points, senior Ray Owes added trip to the Palace of Auburn turnovers and too many second King, Jackson and freshman classmen stepped up and the 
17 points and 14 rebounds and Hills was a lot easier for and third shots," Arizona coach Jerod Ward all finished with 11 other's didn't. That's when it junior Joseph Blair had 10 Michigan, just a 1 1/2-hour bus Lute Olson said. "It was eight points.got ugly for Michigan. 
points and 10 rebounds. ride from campus, while minutes into the second half "We came out flat to start the Ninth-ranked Arizona took 
"I know I can step up in big Arizona arrived late Tuesday before they got their firs offen­second half. We had a turnover over at the start of the second 
games and this was definitely a night after another two-hour sive rebound and we cut way every time we touched the half Wednesday night and went 
big game," said Stoudamire, time zone swing. back on turnovers and contin­ball," King said. "This was a on to a 78-57 victory over No. 
who also had seven assists and But after Arizona led 32-31 at ued to play well on the defen­team loss -all of us. We have 17 Michigan in the closing was named the outstanding the half, Michigan opened the sive end. We did a good job of to learn to deal with adversity. game of the inaugural Great player in the four-game festival. second half looking like the making it difficult for them to I'm confident we'll get better as Eight. "They ran a couple of plays for weary team. The Wildcats had get the shots they wanted." the season rolls on." 
Last season, Arizona handed me at the beginning of the sec­a 20-3 run before the Michigan coach Steve Fisher Arizona junior Reggie Geary the Wolverines their worst loss ond half. I hit a couple of 3s Wolverines made their first had no answer during his did an outstanding job guarding in two seasons, 119-95 in the and that got us going." field goal of the half, 7:31 in. By team's horrendous start to the King.finals of the Fiesta Bowl Classic, Both teams were coming off that time it was 52-34 as second half as he called two "It's pretty easy to see why 
timeouts during the run. we think Reggie is the best de­
"We started with seven pos­fender in the country," Olson sessions and six turnovers and said. "He stays after you and is they went on that run and it so tenacious. You can't just say grew from there," Fisher said. King had a bad shooting night. "We were beaten up in the sec­That was because of the defen­ond half and part of that was sive pressure Reggie put on. It
S.W.A. 

our doing. The frustration was a great second half for us
• 

brews when shots don't go in." and we're very pleased to come
Students With AIDS Training 
The crowd of 18,885, which out of here with a win." had been heavily pro-Michigan The Wolverines had their at the start as expected, was lowest point total since the 71­booing lustily as Michigan 51 loss to Duke in the 1992 missed shot after shot. Seniors NCAA title game. 
0 b s e r v an c e 0 f 
World AIDS Day 1994 
' 

w e in v i t e t h e Not r e D am e f a m i I y t 0 j 0 i n 0 s f 0 r a n e v ening 0 f r eme mb r a n e e a nd hope. 
December I 7:3 0 PM Foster Room 3rd Floor LaFortune 
FARLEY HALL PLAYERS ANNOUNCE 
OPEN AUDITIONS 
FOR 

MEDEA 
NOVEMBER 30 & DECEMBER I 1160'SHAG 7-9P.M. 
... 
Refreshments  Will  Be  Served  
Call  Anne  Any questions ... (4-1825) or Mary  Jo  (4-4978)  ALL ARE WELCOME TO AUDITION  

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, December 1, 1994 
•NFL 
, Driven Steelers dominating defense leads them to top 
By ALAN ROBINSON Associated Press 
I PITTSBURGH 
They're cover boys, the hottest team -and the hottest ticket -around. They're col­lecting nicknames, national at­tention and notoriety, just like the Pittsburgh Steelers of the '70s. 
Suddenly, the Steelers are chic again, the team to beat in the AFC, the favorites to be the NFC's 11th consecutive victim in the Super Bowl. Tired of liv­ing forever in the '70s, they're forging a new identity in the '90s and, even, catchy new nicknames. 
The Steel Curtain defense is retired, along with the four Hall of Famers who made it special. Now, Pittsburgh is rallying around, and America is learn­ing all about, a new, dominat­ing, colorful, full-of-characters Steelers' defense -the Steel Trap. 
Jack Lambert is out, Greg Lloyd is in. Jack Ham finally can enjoy his retirement; the Steelers have another sacking, attacking, havoc-wrecking line­backer, Kevin Greene. Sports Illustrated is in on the secret, slapping Steelers defensive line­man Brentson Buckner across this week's cover as he mauls a Los Angeles Raiders' ballcarri­er. 
"Wait until my dad goes to buy it and sees his son's picture on the cover," Buckner said. "Is he going to be surprised." 
With four consecutive victo­ries, seven in their last eight, the AFC's best record and its best defense, the Steelers (9-3) are proving just as surprising. Driven and dominant again, they finally may be capable of returning to . . . dare the words be said? 
As Pittsburgh resident Fred -call him Mister -Rogers might say, "Can you say Super Bowl?" 
"There's a lot of similarities here to what we had going in San Francisco," said corner­back Tim McKyer. who played in two Super Bowls with the 49ers. "We're a closeknit team, everybody gets along ... and we feel like we're going to win in the fourth quarter." 
Or, as McKyer said when he signed with the Steelers last summer: ''I'm here to win a championship." 
Apparently, so are the 
tn1sf?orts 
Sweaters, Clothit')g, Jewelry,Accessories, and Much More! 
Guatemala • Peru • Mexico • NepalThailand • India • Ecuador 
Incredible Prices! Great Christmas Gifts! 

Steelers who walked around their locker room Wednesday with black-and-gold T-shirts proclaiming "January 29, 1995" on the front and "We Believe" on the back. 
The significance of Jan. 29, 1995? Super Bowl 29 will be played that day in Miami. 
"But I don't think these guys are worried about champi­onships," Lloyd said. "We know what's ahead of us ... and it won't come unless we take it game-to-game, week-to-week. We all realize that if you play well, (championships) come." 

Right now, the Steelers are playing as well as ... maybe not the 49ers and Cowboys, but certainly any other NFL team. An offense that ranks only 11th in the league still is lacking ­most of all, points -but the de­fense leads the NFL in sacks and ranks third overall to Dallas and Arizona. 
Maybe they don't possess as much individual talent as the '70s Steelers did but these Steelers usually play with the same aggression and, seem­ingly, the anger that was in­stilled in the Steel Curtain. 
Even if they don't like to be reminded of it. 
"Are the big, bad Steelers back again? I don't know, I wasn't around when they were here," Lloyd said. "We're play­ing well, but we'll leave (the predictions) to the writers." 

Our new Perkins@ Family Restaurant will be ready soon. 
423 S. Dixie Way, Roseland 

1:: 1990 Perkins Restaurants Operating Company, L.P. 
2 P.M. • THIS SUNDAY!
Meatballs and Volleyballs. 
... 
CHJIMPIONSHIP 


1994 NCAA DIVISION I VOLL.EYBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Featuring YOUR 11th-ranked FIGHTING IRISH! Joyce Center Main Arena 
• 

Thursday, December 1, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
IY\~~t.j :r: ':n-IlIf-E. [Alow! ANo l-111c f Or 


SCOTT ADAMS 
P..ND THOSE. F\ED BLOTCHES ON YOUR \1ANDS-THA.T'S BECAUSE OUR. BOX. IS MADE. OF POISON IVY 

ISN'T COMPATIBLE WIT\·\ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Curling inning 32 Francophone's
1 Whom Simple incomeSimon met 33 Cosmetician7Worn out Lauder11 Marciano slats 35 Like Pinocchio 14 Ancient mystic 
15 Alternative to 36 Lunch item Charles 39 "As You Like It" de Gaulle character 
16 A Mrs. Mickey 40 Physicist Bruno 
Rooney 41 Disgruntled 11 Lunch item employee's 19 Pro--words 20 Make even 42 Pub serving 21 Stringed grp. 43 Thin wood strip 22 Ahab's father 47 Fertilize"rs 23 D.C. summer hrs. 49 Nettle 24 Lith .. formerly 51 Fourth letter of 26 Of the first the Arabic 
category alphabet 28 Fishing 52 Hairdresser's equipment preparations 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

39 Tots of liquor 50 Small anchor 44 Clothes 54 Presage 45 Start of a Seuss 55 Conoco rival 
title 
57 Deux, dos, due 46 Talks (over) 
et al. 48 Nietzsche's 
59 Do voodoo 
"Thus­
Zarathustra" 60 Collar 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

53 Pound. for one 56 Cigar tips 58 "--tu" (Verdi 
aria) 59 Lunch item 61 New Yorker 
cartoonist Chast 62--out 
(scrapes by) 63 Greek markets 64 Mariner's dir. 65 Foreign start 66 Attacks on all 
sides 
DOWN 
1 Effervescent "Dr." 2 Tristram's beloved 3 Possessions left 
behind 4lntend 5 Starts a pool 6 Art movement 
prefix 
1 Planck contemporary a Red navigator 9 Capital of 
Attica? 10 Cobb and others 
-:::+:::+:'+=-..;.,jli..l.iil.l-=+::-+=-liioill 11 Capital of Nepal lll!lll!'!'l"'!~+:'r.-~ 12 Exceed. in a way -=+::::+::-!.iiii.r.:;;+=-t-7-1 13 Japanese guitar 
-::':+::::+:-,~ -=t.=:++.~!"t;:+,:::-t;;; 18 Ophthalmalo­gist's study 4.~±+=-i 22 Margarine ingredient .=.L~:.J...::...L.::-1 25 Paving stones 
21 Greek or Maltese, e.g. 29 Author Ursula etal. 31 Actress Winger 34 Take care of 35 North Sea feeder 36 Southwestern cowboys 37 Make uniform 
38 Light of Humbert Humbert's life 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
.. 




Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
P-------------------------------------------~----~----------~---------------------------------~------­
.. 
SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, December 1, 1994 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Boilermakers too much for Irish 
opening game, Purdue could credit 27 Purdue coach Lin Dunn said, "WeIrish win the points to shots from behind the arc, wanted to keep her from getting the winning 87-83. ball." The Irish were within five points What Purdue didn't know about was
rebounding battle, 
of the lead five times in the first half, Stacey Fields. Missing all of last sea­and each time, the Boilermakers son due to foot surgery, Fields scored
but lose the war 
drilled a three to jump further out of a career high 28 points but comment­reach. ed that the numbers were hollow
By K.C. Goyer 
Most Irish fans know about Beth without the team victory.
Sports W ritrr 
Morgan's ability to hit three pointers. Purdue's big player in the past has If last night had taken place seven Apparently, Purdue knew about been center Leslie Johnson. However, years ago, the Irish would have won a Morgan as well. At least two black Johnson was sidelined with a pulled 
jerseys were glued to Morgan hamstring, and the visiting team
big game. 
Unfortunately in this case, the three throughout the game. Nonetheless, turned to their often neglected she finished the game with 13 points, perimeter game to bring home the
point shot was introduced to women's 
her 28th consecutive double digit win. Coach Muffet McGraw believes
basketball during the 1987-88 season. 

game.
And by the end of the 1994 home The Observer/Kyle Kusek "We wanted to bother Morgan," see IRISH I page 16 
Beth Morgan was hounded by double-teaming all 

Team determined  
to finish what they  
started next year  
ByRIANAKEY  
When the North Carolina women's soccer thrashing of Notre Dame in the national  
team plays in the NCAA final four, Tar Heel championship game, North Carolina effec­ 
head coach Anson Dorrance should make tively dropped the Irish on the threshold.  
his players carry something old, new, bor­Two weeks later, they're still there.  
rowed, and blue. The Irish are torn between feeling disap­ 
That way they'd always be prepared,  pointment over losing in the title game and  
because in collegiate soccer, Dorrance's  feeling pleased with their 23-1-1 season.  
teams have the reputation of always being  Immediately after the championship, the  
the bride and never the bridesmaid.  In  loss fresh in their minds, disappointment  
thirteen years of NCAA women's soccer, the  prevailed.  
Tar Heels have won twelve championships,  "Our job is not finished here," Irish head  
including their current streak of nine  coach Chris Petrucelli said.  "We came to  
consecutive titles.  win a national chamionship and we haven't  
Notre Dame is the latest in the list of run­ done that."  
ners-up to North Carolina. In their 5-0  Now, though, after some time to reflect,  

• WoMEN's SocceR 
mmm 


see RUN I pagel4 
• A VISUAL LOOK 

AT THE FINAL FOUR -see page 15 
TOP: Irish players embrace after their semifinal win over Portland. 
LEFT: North Carolina's Debbie Keller celebrates a score. 
RIGHT: Freshman defender Kate Sobrero pushes the ball upfield. 


Saint M s Basketball 
night by the Boilermakers. 

of note... 
Notre Dame's swim teams will host a meet in the Rolfs Aquatic Center this weekend. 

.. SAINT MARY'S BASKETBALL 
i 
The Belles shut down a previously undefeated 
I 
Hope College team for their first win. 
l • 
~ 
See Page 16 
~ 
~ 
I' 
f I ~ 
-





