
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SfRVINC: NOTRE DAMP ANn SAINT MARY'S 
Three resolutions passed by Senate 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
News Writer 
Sponsoring a forum on aca­demic life, expressing its con­cerns to the Board of Trustees, and recommending stricter en­forcement of principles on in­tercollegiate athletics were the topics of three resolutions passed by the Faculty Senate at their meeting this week. 
The first resolution stated that the Faculty Senate would sponsor the Notre Dame Forum on Academic Life for the 1994­95 academic year. 
The Forum, which was pro­posed by the Chair of the Fac­ulty Senate, would invite "some of the most ilistinguished and a"rticulate" members of the fac­ulty to deliver papers on vari­ous aspects of "the intellectual and academic life" of Notre Dame, according to a letter written by the Chair in May 1994. Other members of the faculty would be welcome to attend an open forum dis­cussing these topics. 
The proposal for the Forum was brought before the Senate on Aug. 29, where it was "unanimously endorsed." If approved by the entire Senate, the Faculty Senate will cover the cost of advertisements for the Forum, which will be held in the Center for Continuing Education. 
The Forum will be organized by an ad hoc committee of Fac­ulty Senators appointed by the Chair of the Faculty Senate. 
Resolving that the Faculty Senate should communicate one of its concerns to the Board of Trustees, the second resolu­tion of the Faculty Senate said that "the spirit if not the letter" of the Academic Articles of Notre Dame were broken when the Board created and ap­pointed another officer of the University. 
According to the Faculty Senate, the Board failed to rec­ognize the "shared responsibil­ity" of trustees, administrators, faculty and students in filling appointments. The position was filled without any "mean­ingful input" from faculty mem­bers, according to the Faculty Senate. 
However, according to the Academic Articles, "the Board of Trustees is the final institu­tional authority of the Univer­sity," which includes the au­thority to create and fill the po­sition of an officer. The Senate further resolved that the Aca­demic Articles should be modi­fied so that any appointments require "formal Faculty input." 
In its third resolution, the Faculty Senate recommended that the Academic Council sup­port "the effort of reform in in­tercollegiate athletics," accord­ing to the Faculty Senate. The Academic Council could join in 
see SENATE I page 4 


The Observer/Eric Ruethling 

I'm a grill-watcher 
Sophomores Jake Schaller and Jason Newcomer enjoy themselves during the Farley-Zahm Big Brother/Big Sister picnic on North Quad. 

The Observer/Michelle Dl Re 


Constructing the future 
Sorin College senior Dirk Bedford peers inside the display in the architecture building lobby. 
ilfll!!ii·lii!(l!''iuselrttlntes~  or the program  
then.  
· ·service has been ......~ ...,...1  
tremendously in the  
recently, it has been soiJnetiimesl  
~d not at all," she said. ·ln other news discussed  
The four..year old progr  the meeting:  
·ich helps students at  ·  ·  jAsurvey concerning  
.,....cup••" }mrs and parties ,',,' campus safely;bba$  ne probl ' '' ' cbangtn~fthe buses' schedules is that the  fe~sibility of installing teleVision in dorm rooms  
pta.gu~!a by occasional low lri(lershi.p and abuse of its ser­ council will then forfeit the money it has already spent in  be passed out to students in the next few days.  
printing up a(ivertisements.  -Friday is the deadline  
But if the. current schedule is  signing up for the trip to the  
kept. bus drivl}rs will be rele- USC • Notre Dame game o  
gated to baby-sitting the stp­dents to rna~~ s~e.thf}X (\o J!pfabuse the service. · ·· ·· ··  Thanksgiving Break. tion and tickets are available Anthony Travel, located i  
"We can't e,Xpecttlle bus dJ:i~  La.Fortune Student Center.  
vers to tackle people who try to get away with misusing it," Bonenberger said: ·  • Rudy Ruettiger will speak Planner Tower on Monday 7:30p.m.  



Crash raises troubling questions 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The dispirited truck driver whose plane plowed into the White House grounds died with trace amounts of cocaine in his system and more alcohol than legally allowed for flight, offi­cials said Tuesday. 
And in a worrisome lapse of security, the tiny aircraft showed up on radar screens at the nearby National Airport, but operators did not notice until after the crash. "It was ... missed," a Secret Service spokesman said. 
The news provided federal investigators their first clues about how Frank Corder's plane slipped past expensive security systems, and whether his flight was a suicide, a bun­gled prank, or a threat against President Clinton. 
Agency spokesman Dave Adams said an autopsy showed that Corder's blood-alcohol conte,nt was 0.045 percent, slightly above the 0.04 percent legal limit for pilots. The legal limit for driving an automobile in most states is 0.10 percent. 
Adams said the autopsy found "trace amounts of cocaine in his system," but complete re­sults will not be available until tissue samples are examined. 
Relying on a flawed initial test, the Secret Service at first said Corder's blood-alcohol content was 0.32 percent, eight times the legal limit. It is possi­ble follow-up tests could pin­point his alcohol content at a different figure, officials said. 
Investigators said privately they were not surprised by the autopsy findings, but the results didn't point to a single motive. "He could have had a final drink or two" before killing himself, "or he might have been a little too drunk to land," said one investigator. 
Investigators made significant inroads on the. most politically sensitive question: How did Corder get so close to smashing into the White House? 
Adams said radar at National Airport picked up the plane shortly before the crash, but the operators did not notice it. "They did not see the aircraft on the radar screen. After re­viewing the tapes ... they did see it on the image," he said. 
As a result, Secret Service agents at the White House did not know the plane had invad­ed restricted airspace until it was spotted by a guard seconds before the crash. Adams said he did not know how much time elapsed between the time the plane was recorded on radar and the crash. 
The Federal Aviation Admin­istration keeps recorded images of everything operators see on the radar. An FAA spokesman said the normal contingent of two radar operators was on duty at the time of the crash, but he did not confirm the Secret Service report that investigators have preliminarily determined that the plane could be seen on the radar screen as it approached the White House. 

r 
page2 The Observer· INSIDE Wednesday, September 14, 
• Inside Column 
Gettin' down with mom and the Stones 
Mick Jagger is my father. 
My mother has been telling me this for years but I never really believed it until Monday night. 
Mom has always been a big Rolling Stones fan. The whole paternity issue first came up when I got braces in the fourth grade. By Mary Good When I arrived home from Accent Editor the orthodontist with my lips sticking two inches out from my face, my mom pulled me aside and let me in on her little secret about Mick, or should I say, "Dad." 

So Monday night, Mom and I packed it up and headed for Chicago to see the Stones. 
In the car on the way we jammed to Rolling Stones oldies. Ruby Tuesday, Get Off of My Cloud, Satisfaction... Mom knew all the words and I tried to keep up. When we rolled into the parking lot I was sure Mom was burnt out already. I mean, two hours of intense lip synch­ing is no easy feat for a woman her age. But that was just the beginning. 
When the lights went down, Mom jumped up. Then, he appeared. Actually, he came running out onto stage, jumping and dancing, rocking and rolling just like a teenager. 
One look at Mom and I knew it was true. Mick Jagger is my father. 
Now, I have known the lady all my life and never ever have I seen that look on her face before. For at least twenty years now she must have been saving that smile for Mick. And that wave too. She was just grinning and flailing her arms around and I think she believed he was singing "Not Fade Away," just for her. 
Maybe he was. 
Whatever is between Mom and Mick, though, is beyond my comprehension. I mean, I dig Eddie Vedder, but... 
The whole reason I was at the concert anyway was by default. My dad, or should I say "Joe," bought two tickets for my mom but refused to go. Smart man. She was a lot of fun, but talk about a total character transformation. 
Mom has always informed me that only "bad girls" do things like stand on their chairs and drool over men in leather pants. Monday night Mom was a "bad girl." She just got up there with the rest of us unmarried, pre-professional, wild and crazy college kids and she rocked all night. 
Our seats were not wonderful. Although we were on the main floor, we were pretty far back. Whenever Mom could catch a glimpse o Mick she pulled me close and pointed until I could spot the little speck of her rock star bouncing around way up there on the stage. 
Every song was her favorite. Start Me Up, Shattered, Jumpin' Jack Flash... During Honkytonk Women, a cast of super-star blow­up dolls inflated. I could identify most of them. Elvis and Cleopatra to name a few, but there was one doll that probably only I could recog­nize. Yes, you guessed it, one of those Honkytonk personalities closely resembled Mom. 
As the concert started winding down, the nov­elty of having Mick Jagger as a father wore o and the novelty of having a groupie as my moth­er kicked in. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Today's Staff  
News  Production  
Kate Crisham  Kira Hutchinson  
Ed Imbus  Kim Massman  
Sports  
George Dohrmann  Graphics  
Viewpoint  Chris Mullins  
Suzy Fry  
Accent  Lab Tech  
Kym Kilbride  Eric Ruethling  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday C'Xcept during C'Xam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• World at a Glance 
Quarter of all females who quit school are pregnant
WASHINGTON More than a quarter of ther-----------------------. "Students who were black or 
girls who drop out of high  School Dropout:s  Hispanic, living in families with  
school cite pregnancy as the  low income, or living in the  
reason ­ and nearly 8 per- Girls who cite pregnancy as a  cause of school dropout  South or West were less likely  
cent of male dropouts say it's because they've become parents.  by race: White iiill%ililiW.ar4f1llli111Bw*I:&ZRJ6% Hispanic 1~~~~­... ~;~··:· JJ., N:BI,.~JE%  to complete high school," the report said. However, the report found an  
But the most common rea- Black  :;:IJ®JIIRI;f'.f~Mif4WW.mial~Ta\:~#%  encouraging  trend  among  
son for dropping out still is a  black students, whose high  
Plain dislike of school, the  Dropout rates for students aged 16 to 24 according tofalTlily incolTle:  school graduation rate  rose  
~~~~:!~~n Department said  Low-Income  ~··  /;.<<*9 ,8 %  ~eo~l;~~e;~:~:niti~ 9Ji9 ~~  
In  its  annual  dropout  Middle-Income  Among whites, the graduation  
report, the department said  High-Income  i'IUI.7%  rate rose from 85 percent to 90  
381,000 high school stu- Dropout rates in the four regions of the United States:  percent. Overall, 86 percent of  
dents aged 15 to 24 quit  South  all students completed high  
school last year. All told, 3.4  school last year.  
million people aged 16 to 24  West  "Many dropouts say they left  
- 11 percent of the age  Midwest  ®iillflll.EI!wffiitt¥s%  school because they were fail- 
group  - are high school  Northeast  Rilf~JB.s%  ing  or just didn't like it,"  
dropouts.  Education Secretary Richard  
Although the 11 percent  The Obse<Va./Chns Mullins  Riley said. "Some will come  

rate was unchanged from 1992, it has declined since the back and finish, but too many find themselves unem­1970s, when it ranged from 14 percent to 14.5 percent. ployed or stuck in a job with no future." 
Barry nominated for DC ma*'orship 
ASHINGTON 

With 70 percent of Washington's vote counted, Marion Barry held a narrow lead over fellow City Councilman John Ray, 47 percent to 37 percent. Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly trailed badly with 14 percent. The winner of Washington's Democratic mayoral primary will be the overwhelming November favorite. So Tuesday marked the biggest hurdle in 


Barry's effort to win back the office he left when a 1990 arrest for smoking crack cocaine landed him in prison for six months. The results of the several Senate primaries, with which the Republicans hope to gain a majority in the senior Congressional chamber, were still being counted 

Judge Blocks Nuclear Shipments 
COLUMBIA, S.C. 

A federal judge ignored the government's warnings Tuesday and blocked the shipment of spent nuclear fuel from Europe for storage at a South Carolina weapons­material plant. The U.S. Energy Department argued that stopping the shipments would undermine the nation's policy of discouraging use of material that can be used to make nuclear weapons. U.S. District Judge Matthew Perry said the potential for harm to the state was much greater than that to the federal government. Perry turned his restraining order, issued Friday, into a preliminary injunction that could block the two shipments indefinite­ly. The Energy Department has said it had no choice but to accept the first shipment of 153 spent fuel rods from Europe. When the United States sold the fuel, it agreed to take it back to limit proliferation. Officials said the ship­ment was already on two ships heading for the United States. Energy Secretary Hazel O'Leary said the agency would ask the Justice Department to examine Perry's rul­ing. "The department has acted responsibly and will con­tinue to pursue the acceptance of this fuel into the United States," O'Leary said. The Energy Department warned in court papers that without being able to return spent fuel to the United States "reactor operators would be driven to reprocessing spent, highly enriched fuel, and they would be forced to seek alternative suppliers, such as the former Soviet Union and China." 

Court delays ethanol gas additive 
WASHINGTON 

A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals blocked the EPA from implementing the regulation that would clear the way for the widespread use of corn­based ethanol in cleaner-burning gasoline until an oil industry lawsuit challenging the requirement aimed at ethanol can be decided. The agency said the broader program to require cleaner-burning gasoline in regions of the country with severe smog problems would go into effect as scheduled next January. Last June, the EPA directed that a "renewable" additive, in effect ethanol, be a major component of a cleaner-burning gasoline that will be required beginning next January in nine cities with the worst air pollution problems. The regulation will affect about one-third of all the gasoline sold in the country. The regulation has been one of the toughest clean-air issues before the agency, with farm-state mem­bers of Congress pushing hard on behalf of ethanol, an oxygenate produced from corn. But the oil industry ar­gued that a rival additive -MTBE, made from methanol -would be less expensive and that the EPA should not dictate what additive should be used. 

George Burns has surgery after fall 
LOS ANGELES 

Comedian George Burns was hospital­ized in intensive care Tuesday after surgery to drain a buildup of fluid on his brain, which was beginning to impair his speech. The 98-year-old comic made it through the surgery well and was expected to remain in Cedars-Sinai Medical Center for about a week, said hospital spokesman Ron Wise. Burns 


even cracked a few jokes after the operation. The fluid collected on Burns' brain after he fell in his bathtub and hit his head at his Beverly Hills home on July 13, Wise said. Burns was admitted to Cedars-Sinai on Monday night and underwent about two hours of surgery. Burns hit a soap dish when he fell, suffering a head cut. Burns' return to the hospital Monday was not an emergency, Fein said. The fall had forced Burns to cancel an upcom­ing engagement at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas. When once asked what his doctor thought about his daily pen­chant for martinis and cigars. "My doctor is dead," was his reply. 

• National Weath_er.~._____ 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta 88 67 Dallas 90 72 New Orleans 85 73 Baltimore 84 50 Denver 74 51 New York 78 65 Boston 68 56 Los Angeles 84 67 Philadelphia 81 66 Chicago 88 67 Miami 89 79 Phoenix 97 71 Columbus 87 61 Minneapolis80 65 
C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 




Wednesday September 14, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Preparations for Haiti invasion move forward 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
An aircraft carrier that could serve as a launching platform for invading Haiti headed to sea Tuesday. and President Clinton scheduled a Thursday night address to make his case that 
U.S. interests there are vital. 
Both Democrats and Republi­cans in Congress complained they were being ignored by a White House bent on war. 
Clinton is considering an­nouncing a firm deadline for Haiti's military leaders to leave -or sending an emissary to Port-au-Prince with one last demand that they surrender power. a senior administration official said. 
The USS America sailed from Norfolk, Va., as another huge carrier, the USS Eisenhower, was taking on Army helicopters and soldiers there for a Wednesday departure to the Caribbean. 
Defense Secretary William Perry was heading to Norfolk to talk with military leaders aboard the Eisenhower and the USS Whitney, which would serve as the command ship for military operations in Haiti. 
At the White House, chief of staff Leon Panetta threatened that if Haiti's military leaders don't give up power, "action is going to be taken against them very soon." 
In Haiti, the army-installed government protested what it called the "scandalous and un­acceptable behavior" of the 
CEIBA, Puerto JUco American public may not understand why astl,tngton wants to invade Haiti, but members ......."""'"n peacekeeping force training here 
no problem with it whatsoever. • 
.. If you don't stop wbat. is happening in •Haiti, probably looking. at dictatorship and tar­throughout the Caribbean," said tn..o•u~·.~.Q.u Lt. Tybrel Raymond, among the ftrst .........<J...al peacekeepers to arrive fC)r 
...,.,lnmlu at U.S. military bases in Puerto Rico. 
the Caribbean don't want another or another Cuba," Raymond, 28, said he waited for a checkup at Roosevelt Station with soldiers from Antigua, 
and Belize. 
Anr>th<•.,.. 94 soldiers from Britain, Jamaica and and Tobago were en route to this U.S. lcomnilortWE,altn Tuesday to join a force that will 
to 1,500 soldiers representing 17 nations. 
They will follow part of a 20,000-member erican force being gathered for an an­ulavul•t:u invasion of Haiti, intended to drive out leaders and restore constitutional gov­
ernment. 
Although polls show most Americans don't see ving the Haitians as vital to U.S. interests it would stop a wave of refugees, the sol­interviewed disagreed. They said they had 
United States but gave no indi­cation of stepping aside. 
Lawmakers on Capitol Hill were taking the threats at face value. 

"My view is that the cake has Chairman Gen. John Sha­
been baked," said Senate Mi­likashvili. 
nority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., Lawmakers in both chambers 
who was briefed Tuesday by said there should be votes in 
Perry and Joint Chiefs of Staff Congress before the adminis­tration commits any U.S. sol­diers to Haiti. But White House spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers said there was no need and that any action to restore Haiti's elected leaders would be "minor compared to what was needed" in the Persian Gulf War. 
Democratic leaders in both houses, Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell and House Speaker Thomas Foley, both said they preferred the presi­dent come to Congress before any invasion. But Mitchell said, "No president in my lifetime has agreed" that congressional approval is necessary for mili­tary action. 
Dole said he was pressing for a chance to bring the Haiti issue to the Senate floor for debate. In the House, Rep. Gene Taylor, D-Miss., hoped to force the body to take up a resolution barring intervention in Haiti without congressional approval. 
Despite pleas from Secretary of State Warren Christopher for unity, few Democrats outside the Congressional Black Cau­cus, which is also divided on the issue, stood publicly behind Clinton. 

Vatican suffers abortion set-back 
University of Notre Dame 
Intemational.Study Program 
m 

M~!£geeS.ity
Thursday, September 15, 1994 4:30p.m. -Room 118 DeBartolo Spring 1995 & 1995-96 Academic Year 
All are Welcome 
to specific points in sections on reproductive rights. 
The Vatican also got limited support from 10 Latin Ameri­can countries, including Ar­gentina. Peru and Ecuador. They withheld agreement on phrases in the reproductive rights section but accepted the abortion passage. Brazil, the world's largest Roman Catholic country. did not side with the Vatican. 
Yet in eight grueling days of bargaining here, the Vatican and its Catholic allies won nu­merous battles, including: 
-Recognition that parents should be involved in teen sex counseling. 
-The elimination of "preg­nancy termination" from the definition of reproductive health care. 
-The deletion of the phrase "sexual rights." 
-Two mentions that abortion should not be promoted as a method of family planning. 
-Language that family and reproductive health matters should conform to local laws, cultures, ethics and religion. 
The Vatican didn't even fight a call for access to contracep­tion and the distribution of con­doms to fight AIDS, knowing it could not win on that front. 
Don't let the "Homework Blues" get you down! 
Let Fe"aro Specialties type your class assignments. 
Any length -quality service rush jobs -NO PROBLEM! 
Free Pick Up and Delivery! 
Call today! Fe"aro Specialties: 234-8209 
By DANIEL WAKIN 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 
Negotiating like a country but voting like a religion, the Vati­can managed to chip away at abortion language at the U.N. population conference. 
But it failed to block world­wide recognition that abortion is a fact of life that govern­ments must deal with as an issue of public health. 
That was a setback to the Holy See and to Pope John Paul II, who has been leading a sin­gle-minded moral crusade against abortion. 

The Vatican also suffered damage on the diplomatic stage. It infuriated many diplo­mats and U.N. officials with its vigorous fight in conference rooms to keep more liberal abortion language out of the 20-year plan to curb population growth. 
And it was forced on the de­fensive for allying itself with ex­tremist governments like those of Libya and Iran. In the end, those countries and nearly a dozen other Muslim nations ob­jected in Tuesday's fmal session 


Monogram JACC 6-9 p.m. 

------~ 
--~--~---­
page4 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 14, 1994 
Health care debate continues 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
this eftort by msurmg the Om­versity's full compliance with the principles defined by the Knight Commission on Intercol­legiate Athletics, which is co­chaired by Father Hesburgh, and the American Association of University Professors (AAUP). 
The principles defined by these two organizations are a code of conduct for intercolle­giate athletics. According to the Faculty Senate, "the University of Notre Dame's observance of responsible aca­demic leadership and ethical standards in intercollegiate athletics has brought it distinc­tion, respect, and leadership. 
One way for the Academic Council to confirm its support of certain principles is by publishing them in the ~ 
e~empted. 
":;;:_Allows the death for 60 additional crimes, including dri 
shooting deaths~  and :.::br.=,~~~·:·i carj...._,,....,~;, ~::=::::,,,~, · ··  
..;....sends  some  third~tim  

felons t() prison for life. 
As for the money; some which already has· been priated, the law $10.8 billion for 
.;,.law enforcement 
--$8.8 biilion for suu,.. • .u..,, help hire up to 100.000 officers, fulfilling .a 199 Clinton campaign pledge; 
The law also authoriZl;'!S 
billion for crime-n•-~>tJ'.~".nr·1nn programs. many of which criticized by Republicans ~~~teful "pork" spending. 
Handbook, which would be recorded in The Academic Code, according to the Faculty Senate. Among these princi­ples are the following: "unquestioned academic and fmancial integrity of its athletic programs," "integrated ... housing, food service, tutoring, and other areas of campus life" for both student athletes and other students, and that "stan­dards for admission ... of all student athletes ... are compa­rable to those for other stu­dents," according to article 26 under The Academic Code. 
According to this article of the code, these standards include "comparable ... wel­fare, health, and safety" and "financial aid standards" for both student athletes and other students. 
The Faculty Senate will meet three more times this semester in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Beta Alpha Psi Presents: 
ACCOUNTING CAREER NIGHT 
WHO: Open to all. Seniors and juniors strongly encouraged to attend. 
WHAT: 15 companies -both public and private firms -will be there to answer any and all questions. 
WHEN: Wednesday, 9114 from 6, 9 pm. 
WHERE: JACC Monogram Room. 
By NITA LELYVELD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Democratic congressional leaders met with President Clinton on Tuesday and said they may ask Republicans to help draft a slimmed-down health reform bill that could be passed this year. 
"We want to explore the pos­sibilities and see whether there is a meaningful probability that we could work together to pro­duce some legislation," said House Speaker Thomas Foley of Washington. 
But Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas said health reform was "hanging by a thread" and a group of Senate Republicans led by Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas, said they would oppose any efforts to pass health reform legislation in the month or so that re­mains. 
Some wondered how the leaders could hold out any hope for consensus in the eleventh hour when it has proved so elu­sive for months. 
"The American people be­lieve that it's time for us to stop listening to the president, stop listening to each other and come home and listen to them," said Gramm. 
"I think it is a bad idea to try to bring this debate back to life," Gramm said. 
Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle said that is what vot-ers had told them. 


Sen. Joseph Lieberman, D­Conn., said he supported trying to do something this session, but added, "I would guess that most people returning to Congress today from the two weeks at home will have found what I found in Connecticut, which is that the most com­monly expressed opinion about health care was what the Brooklyn Dodgers always used to say, 'Wait till next year."' 
Sen. Malcolm Wallop, R-Wyo., speaking at a news conference with Gramm, said it would be disastrous if Congress rushed out "some scaled-down little thing whose name sounds good, which has a sweet and sexy sound to it about how you're going to be safer if only these things will take place." He said such a bill would end up being big and harmful. 
Foley said the attempt to reach a consensus would nec­essarily be modest. 
"It isn't all going to be ac­complished this Congress, I think that is probably clear." he said. "But I hope some ini­tial steps can be taken that are constructive, positive and ini­tial, and will still have a mean­ingful result leading to the achievement of the goals that we have sought." 
Meanwhile, prospects for reaching a consensus on the proposal of a self-styled "main­stream" group of Republican and Democratic senators appeared slim to none as sena­tors returned to work. 

The Observer 
the News Department is now accepting applications for the 
Business Page Copy Editor 
position. Please submit a letter of intent and resume by Thursday, Sept. 15 at 5 p.m. Questions? Call Michael Martin at 631-5323. 
Catch the Action! 

Round trip bus transportation to Michigan State September 17th 
The bus leaves the Alumni/Senior Club at 9:30 am 
Tickets: $15 
On sale now at the LaFortune Info Desk 


The Observer • NEWS page 5 
SECURITY BEAT 
The Obsevermna Lemker 
When in the Italian club ... 
A member of the The Italian Club of Saint Mary's College joined Rome Program alumni last night to socialize and reminisce. 
Former U.S. Treasurer sentenced to prison 
By HARRY ROSENTHAL 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The former U.S. treasurer, whose signature appears on most of the nation's currency, was sentenced Tuesday to four months in prison for evading taxes and obstructing justice. 
Catalina Vasquez Villalpando had pleaded guilty earlier in the year to three felony charges, which also included conspiring to hide outside income while she served in the Bush administration. 
Her signature is on all U.S. paper money printed between December 1989 and April 1994. 
''I'm embarrassed," she told 
U.S. District Judge Thomas Hogan, her voice breaking. "I hope you will find it in your heart to take what I owe society in some sort of community ser­vice" rather than in a prison sentence, she said. 
A few minutes later, Hogan said, "I can find no basis to excuse your conduct." He said the office Villalpando held imposed more of a burden to 
vised release for three years, 
including four months of house 
detention. She also must do 200 
hours of community service. 
Villalpando had faced a maxi­
mum possible sentence of five 
years in prison and a $250,000 
fine on each of the convictions. 
An oddity in the case involved 
the conflicting views of two 
prosecutors about how much 
Villalpando had cooperated in 
their separate investigations. 
Justice Department lawyer 
Jonathan Rusch said she had 
lied "time and time again" and 
had done "nothing to advance 
the ball." 
But Robert Warren, of the Of­
fice of Independent Council 
which is conducting an investi­
gation of the HUD scandal, 
said, "She has been entirely 
truthful.... She has not dissem­
bled with us." 
Rusch said, "She did not file 
tax returns over five years, a 
period that overlaps her service 
as a special assistant to the 
president of the United States." 
He said she "admitted nothing 
about her own criminal culpa­
bilities until after she was con­
fronted with her crimes." 
In February, Villalpando admitted reporting 1989 tax­able income of $161,983 rather than the actual $329,884. 
employees of Congress. 
"It can help restore the pub­lic's faith in government," Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, a chief sponsor of the bill, said at a news conference. 
Those covered would include congressional staff and em­ployees of branches of Congress such as the General Accounting Office, Congressional Budget Office and the Library of Congress. 
Because some legislative workers are already covered, the number of new workers reached by the bill could be as low as 25,000. 
At issue is whether the bill will be considered by the Sen­ate before Congress adjourns in a few weeks. A Senate commit­tee is scheduled to take it up next week, and a similar bill overwhelmingly passed the House last month. 
Sen. Joseph Lieberman, D­Conn., another prime sponsor, said he would meet with Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, in the next few days to convince him to bring the bill up for a vote. 
If Mitchell does not agree, Lieberman and Grassley said they would try to attach the bill to virtually any other bill that reaches the floor. 
A N N U A L 


COLORADO 
...... 
~···-·­
FREE INFORMATION AND RESERVAnGNS 
1•800•5UNCHASE 
NOBODY DOES SKI BREAKS BETTER! 


-----~ --~--· 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 14, 1994 

Trade authority request dropped 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In an attempt to win con­gressional approval of a new world trade accord this year, the Clinton administration on Tuesday withdrew its request for authority to negotiate future trade agreements on an expe­dited basis. 
The decision represents a blow to the prestige of Presi­dent Clinton, who now must travel to two international con­ferences -in Miami on Latin American trade and in Indone­sia on Pacific Rim trade ­without so-called fast-track au­thority in his pocket. 
But U.S. Trade Representa­tive Mickey Kantor told re­porters that legislation imple­menting the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tar­iffs and Trade was "in very good shape now" that it has been severed from the fast­track request. 
"Nothing is more important to continuing our recovery and building global growth than the Uruguay Round," he said. 
Rep. Sam Gibbons, D-Fla., chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y., chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, agreed to take up separate fast-track leg­islation early in the next Congress. 
In it, Congress would agree to vote on future trade agree­ments without amendments within a specified time after they are submitted by the presi­dent. Such authority is consid­ered crucial to preventing com­plex trade agreements from being picked apart by special interests in Congress. 
Kantor said delaying fast­track authority would not hin­der progress in current trade negotiations, most notably with Chile. 
Gibbons said he and Moyni­han would work to resolve re­maining differences between their two panels by Sept. 20, allowing the administration to submit a bill implementing GATT soon after that. It must be accepted or rejected without amendment and Clinton is pressing for a vote before Congress adjourns in mid-Oc­tober. 
The bill had been threatened by the dispute over future fast­track authority between con­servatives and pro-business lawmakers on the one hand and environmentalists and la­bor advocates on the other. 
Liberals wanted to require future trade agreements to ad­dress labor and environmental standards. But conservatives saw that as a back-door way to stiffen U.S. environmental and labor laws and business inter­ests feared it would restrict their operations overseas. 
"I think it was the major im­pediment (to GATT). It would have been very difficult to re­solve in the next week," said Rep. Robert Matsui, D-Calif., chairman of the Ways and Means trade subcommittee. 
Although the deadline for ratifying GATT is July 1, the United States and other major industrialized nations have promised to push for approval this year. 
Several contentious issues remain, including provisions of the implementing bill affecting 
U.S. anti-dumping laws and provisions on paying for the roughly $12 billion in tariff rev­enues that would be lost during the first five years of the ac­cord. 

anne ea ers released from jail 
By RACHID KHIARI Associated Press 

ALGIERS 
The top two leaders of the banned fundamentalist Islamic Salvation Front were released from prison and put under house arrest, and three other leaders were freed, the presi­dent's office announced Tues­day. 
The banning 2 1/2 years ago of the Salvation Front, known by its French acronym as FIS, triggered an insurgency by Muslim militants that has left about 10,000 people dead. The widely popular FIS was about to win control of the National Assembly in 1992 before the elections were abruptly annulled. 
President Liamine Zeroual is under increasing pressure to reach agreement on sharing power or forming a transitional government. The opposition urged him to release the jailed FIS leaders so they can take part in talks. 
FIS leader Abassi Madani and Ali Belhadj were released from a military prison in Blida, south of Algiers, and placed under less-strict house arrest. 
The statement from Zeroual's office didn't say where Madani and Belhadj, arrested in June 1991 for "attacking state secu­rity," had been sent, only that it was "to another place of resi­dence." Government sources, however, said they were moved to a nearby state-owned resi­dence "for their own security" but would be able to receive visitors. 
They had been sentenced in July 1992 to 12 years in prison each. 
Noureddine Chigara, Ab­delkader Omar and Kamel Guemmazi, also high-ranking FIS leaders, were allowed to go free, the presidential statement said. 
"We are happy with the lib­eration of some of our leaders," said Rabah Kebir, head of the FIS in exile, based in Germany. 
"We consider that a positive step but not sufficient," Kebir said in a statement read over the telephone. "There remain to be released all the members of FIS ... in order to reunite all the necessary conditions for a beginning of negotiations." 
theRobert Morris Gallery
Limited Editions Fine Art Photo Silverprints Local Artists 

Decorate Your Dorm 
with a black & white poster from an original Silverprint. Also post cards and playing cards available. 
The Old Bag Factory 1100 North Chicago Avenue Goshen, Indiana 46526 • 219-534-5648 
Hours: 9-5 Mon.-Fri.; 9-4 Sat.; Evenings by Apt. 
rear ... .. ... . •three oth~r . . . . lm41>l#l~.· it had been separated wing and engine;·sup­lnn·rti.,,.., a theory that the right 
Correction 
An article yesterday misstated the dates of the trip to Washing­ton, DC, sponsored by the Saint Mary's Young Republicans. The excursion will be held from October 22 to October 27. 
Inter Varsity Christian Fellowship Introductory Bible Study Wednesday, September 14th 7:00-8:30 pm at the esc 
Notre ~arne ~~~ ank ~tu ent Ni t 
Sunday, September 18 
5:00 -·7:30 p.m. La Fortune Ballroom 
Hosted by: Campus Ministry 
*Welcome Hispanic Freshmen *Student Panel on Hispanic Student life at Notre Dame *Dinner *Special Appearance by "Coro Primavera" 
Cost: Freel irodos Bievenidosl 
Questions: Fr. Pat Neary, esc -631-7800 or Lena Jefferson -631-6825 

-..;.. .....·..._.~-· ..... -·· _:.._. 


-~-~ -~ ~ ---------~--~~--­
Wednesday, September 14, The Observer • NEWS page7 

. 
omlc~l$'.~~dr>l 
suJtret·ett 
bnrisE~s 
AccoUNTING SENIORS 
PANEL ON RECRUITING PROCEDURES 
Wednesday, September 14, 4:00p.m. 
Room 122 Hayes-Healy 
Questions? -Prof. Misiewicz, 254 Hayes Healy (631-7314) 
Attention 
Com~ties 


partie ipants!ll 
come to the 2nd arrual 
KICK~OFF DAY 
anyone who has partie ipated in Communities NO welcome 
• get your community start~d f~.r th~ new year: . 
• regroup with others who have lost the1r commun1t1es 
• let us know how we can help you this year 

Sunday, September 18 1:00 -3:00 p.m. Lafortune Ballroom
0MPUS MINISTRY 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED! QUESTIONS?? call Kate Barrett at Campus Ministry: 1-5242 
Three indicted in tax scandal 
By lARRY MARGASAK 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA 
The government charged the ex-president of United Way of America and two fellow execu­tives with conspiracy, mail and tax fraud Tuesday, accusing them of lavishly spending the charity's money on vacations, real estate and air travel. 
The 71-count federal indict­ment named William Aramony, 67, president of United Way from 1970 until 1992; Stephen Paulachak, 49, a United Way executive between 1971 and 1988 and also president of an indicted spinoff company; and Thomas Merlo, 63, chief finan­cial officer of the charity from 1990 until1992. 
The diversion of funds, previ­ously reported in news stories, caused a shakeup at the na­tional charity organization known to virtually all Ameri­cans, and depressed contribu­tions to local United Way orga­nizations. 
United Way of America is the national service and training center for local United Way or­ganizations and is financed by dues from the local groups. 
The local organizations col­lect contributions and distrib­ute them to charities. They had nothing to do with the alleged wrongdoing. 

The indictment said more than $1.5 million was diverted, with some of the money spent for purchase of a New York City apartment, a Coral Gables, Fla., condominium, a vacation to London and Egypt -complete with a Nile cruise -and a life­time pass on American Airlines. 
Some of the money went to Aramony's girlfriend, who was not named in the indictment, which was handed down by a federal grand jury and an­nounced by the U.S. attorney's office here. 
Money went to pay for con­struction of a sunroom at the woman's Gainesville, Fla., home; for her personal income tax payments; her own vaca­tions and trips she took with Aramony, and for "consulting payments" even though she did no work for the United Way. 
"Today's news represents a critical step forward because it reinforces all the positive changes that have been made to restructure United Way of America ... ," said Dr. Tommy Frist Jr., chairman of the Alexandria-based United Way of America. 
Astronauts release satellite to probe sun 
By MARCIA DUNN Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL 
Discovery's astronauts re­leased a satellite Tuesday to study the streams of charged particles hurtling from the sun through the solar system at 1.5 million mph. 
While the deployment itself was flawless, the shuttle radar system failed and commander Richard Richards could not track the satellite as the two spacecraft drifted apart. 
The satellite, Spartan, will study the solar wind for two days as similar observations are made by Ulysses, the first spacecraft to orbit the sun's poles. Ulysses was launched by the same shuttle and shuttle commander four years ago. 
Astronaut Susan Helms used Discovery's robot arm to lift the 2,800-pound, gold-colored Spartan from the cargo bay. She released the satellite late in the afternoon as the Discovery soared 160 miles above the In­dian Ocean, just south of Aus­tralia. Then Richards slowly backed the shuttle away, and the radar problem arose. 
An hour later, Richards rmally locked onto the satellite with 
Food Servers & Hostess/Host Flexible Hours Apply Anytime 
272--3672 
Cleveland Rd. across from UP Mall 
lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship Fellowship Meeting 
Friday, September 16th 5:30-7:30 p.m. 
We'll meet in front of Stepan Center 
After the diversion of money became known, the national group brought in former Peace Corps chief Elaine Chao as president, instituted new fi­nancial controls, adopted a new code of ethics and gave local United Ways more control over the national organization. 
The indktment charged Aramony, Paulachak, Merlo and a spinoff company with conspiracy to defraud United Way, mail fraud, wire fraud, interstate transportation of fraudulently acquired property and money laundering. 
Aramony, Paulachak and Merlo were accused of filing false personal and corporate tax returns and Merlo was charged with perjury. 
Aramony is charged in 53 felony counts, Merlo in 35, Paulachak in 35 and the spinoff company -the Partnership Umbrella Inc. -in 24. 
Walter Bonner, Paulachak's lawyer, said "Partnership Um­brella Inc. and Mr. Paulachak entertain no doubt, whatsoever, that following a trial ... they will be found innocent ... .' 
John Hume, Merlo's lawyer, said his client "was a victim of circumstances." 
the shuttle radar, but the dis­tance measurements were off by 2,000 feet. 
Richards had counted on us­ing the radar for Thursday's rendezvous with Spartan; the crew must capture the satellite to bring it back home next week. 
Mission operations director Randy Stone said the astronauts will have to use backup naviga­tion systems to close in on Spartan if the radar isn't fixed by Thursday. Shuttle astronauts have never attempted a ren­dezvous before without radar. 
"It will be an aggravation, but it really does not put Spartan in any jeopardy whatsoever," Stone said. 
The $14 million Spartan needs to fly free of Discovery in order to point at the sun. The two telescopes on the satellite will focus on the sun's searing corona, or outer atmosphere, where solar wind originates. 
One telescope will observe ultraviolet light emitted from the sun's south pole to deter­mine the temperature and speed of solar wind at its point of origin; the other will measure visible light to determine solar wind density. 
NOW 
HIRING 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, September 14, 1994 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MAR.v's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Bwiness Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor....... -...................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................Don Kingston Photo Editor.......................Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabe!h Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is !he independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insrirurion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of !he majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Edimr, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions !hrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor I Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu 
, 
/ "' 
"' 
" 
"' 
, I 
I 
/I 
/ 

... 
• LETTERS TO THE EomlR 
Rice fails to tell whole story Shop with more than 
Dear Editor: 
your wallet in mind 
Professor Rice's articles gen­erally infuse the Observer with 
Dear Editor: stores" in the South a redeeming perspective. Recently the Observer chose Bend/Mishawaka area. In addi­However, the article, "Murder to run two large advertise­tion to these two stores the is murder, regardless of who ments, one from Wal-Mart and Meijer Corporation has stores and why," (Sept. 5) left me the other from the Meijer throughout Michigan, Ohio, and wanting. In the article, Dr. Rice Corporation. These two compa­Indiana. Most of the stores out­condemned the use of violence nies typically offer the con­side Indiana are organized by that has been perpetrated sumer low prices and are obvi­the United Food and against abortionists as of late. ously attractive to the average Commercial Workers Union Rice (as well as the Catholic college student. However, as (UFCW). However here in the Church, myself, and others) educated adults we owe it to state of Indiana, which has con-views elective abortion to be ourselves as well as the rest of tantamount to cold blooded the American public to be murder . While I do not neces­enlightened about the compa­
'The Wai-Mart

sarily disagree with the conclu­nies we choose to patronize 
Corporation ... 

sion, so much of the article con­and give our hard earned dol­tained statements which have lars to. thrives on paying its no logical progression. The Wal-Mart Corporation is 
employees low wages.' 

Dr. Rice contends that the a notorious anti-union company idea of "imminence" is a neces­which thrives on paying its sary prerequisite to using force; employees low wages. The sistently proven itself to be it is only inside the abortionist's company has been convicted of anti-union and in my opinion "killing room" that the immi­several unfair labor practices anti-worker, the company nence criteria is satisfied. Rice ranging from requiring employ­refuses to acknowledge the makes this statement recogniz­ees to work off the clock, to presence of the union in the ing that the anti-abortionist can several civil rights violations. In work place. Informational only get as far as the parking addition, Wal-Mart, through its picket lines have been set up lot where, Rice argues, the slick advertising campaigns, outside the businesses to edu­imminence criteria is not satis­portrays itself as "The All­cate the consumer about the fied. If Dr. Rice had three American" company, declaring situation in the stores. daughters, each of which was that most of the products they As two of the finest institu­raped and murdered on three sell are American made and tions of higher education in the successive days at a place simi­have the made-inthe-U.S.A. country, we as students should lar to an abortion mill, I fmd it label in them. However, not allow our reputations to be hard to believe that he would have to be used." But in the leaves us with the question: is it according to an expose shown marred by associating our­not find the parking lot immi­above scenario, I find I must readily conceivable that the cri­on the NBC news program selves with these two compa­nent enough to polish off the ask if Rice, or any other teria for force is met, or would "Nightline". many of these nies. Therefore, I am asking the rapists/murderer. In this sce­upstanding moral father, would Rice really not use force to save products are in fact distributed Observer to cease accepting nario, I find it incredible that not use a force sufficient to dis­his daughters? by U.S. companies, not made in advertising from both of these Rice could convince himself of courage the rapist/murderer In order for Professor Rice to the U.S.A. In fact, many of companies as well as asking the his espoused imminence crite­from preying on his daughters. be convincing, he needs to these products are made in Saint Mary's/Notre Dame com­ria. Constrained by the vigilance of address some of the issues countries such as China, munity to carefully consider 
According to Rice, once the the federal authorities, it seems raised in this letter. Burma, and India, which have shopping in these stores which imminence criteria is satisfied that lethal force could be a been documented as having make multi-billion dollar profits in such a context, this would practical contender; Rice may practically non-existent labor at the expense of their employ­
PIEDER BEELI 

justify the use of "reasonable only get a moment of opportu­laws which allow for child­ees. 
Department of Physics

force to defend the child." He nity to discourage this evil. labor and unsafe working con­JENNIFER O'DELL 
Graduate Student Off Campus 

qualifies "reasonable force" Rice's belief in the full humani­ditions. Holy Cross Hall saying, "It is practically incon­ty of the unborn makes this The Meijer Company has President, SMC College Democrats ceivable that lethal force would analogy morally equitable. This recently opened two "super­
•DDONSBURY 
P/HCN I 7HINK Af30{fTPU7T!NG CHIWR&N RR5T, NATURAU-Y, 1 THINK Aea.JT THe RJTUR£ CFMYauNeaovwOIJO<A­
~~ Ht:R£ A'35/3M8t&/?.,.
,.,..,,.,....'!T"rl 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

THREe OF 7HIS FUXI< At<£ OH, a:AR..,. UNI?GR-INSUREI?. ONe IS UN­t/~7{} IN'3UR&l?At.T06&THeR, THANKS MeAIRIN6 70 THe f(£CI<I..£'5'3 INV&STMEN~ TH/3 f.AMIL-Y'5 OFAClii<TAINNl!PfltW-/N-/AUJ. 0/RTI... 
\ 

• QtHlTE Of THE DAY 
''Literature is the one 
place in any society where, within the secrecy of our own heads, we can hear voices talking about everything in every possible way." 
-Salman Rushdie 
Is Nothing Sacred? 

-----------------~--~------­
ACCENT 

By LAURA SMITH 
Accent Writer 
Do your weeks seem to last forever? Do you spend half of your study time waiting for the weekend-a time of fun and relaxation? How about an exciting study break with a mysterious twist to liven up your week? 
The Saint Mary's College Student Activities Board 
(S.A.B) is sponsoring Murder Mysteries tonight at 7 p.m. in the Saint Mary's College Clubhouse. This clubhouse is known to most students as Dalloway's Coffee House. 
Murder Mysteries on Campus is presented by a traveling murder mystery group from Michigan. 
This group is composed of three regular cast members 
Murder mystery returns to Saint Mary's College 
By CAROLYN WILKENS Accent Writer 
Ah...the days of Fall. A time for students to soak up the last rays of Indian Summer before September drifts away and South Bend's wintery weather really arrives. A time when studies, sports, and socializing crowd students' schedules and dwelling on the future could be put off... for another time. Even for some seniors, gradua­tion still can look a long, long way down the road. 
Unfortunately, one can choose to remain blissfully ig­norant for only so long. And with the ultimate question to end all questions, the reality check really kicks in with a vengeance. 
The ultimate question being: "So what are your plans after you graduate?" can leave even the most stoic-hearted senior smiling weakly and wobbly in the knees. Fear not; Career and Placement to the rescue. 
For any student, it's only a short walk over to the library, where Career and Placement is located in the basement. 
There you will join about a dozen of your fellow colleagues who also have decided that the Real Future is not so far away after all. 
The Career and Placement begins early to advertise their services. The department mails flyers to juniors in October, and then send out more periodically 
as little reminders that  college  
doesn't last forever.  
Some  juniors  do  begin  

gathering information about writing their resumes and cover letters. Whatever they decide rests entirely on their own judgement. Although students are not required to write a resume prior to graduation, it is strongly recommended that they do. 
At Career and Placement, stu­dents can learn the correct way to write a resume and cover let­ter. 
Handouts on how to write resumes are available at the front desk of Career and Placement. 
Also, in the Resume Expert packet there is a special tutori­al diskette which explains the steps. Books on this kind of stuff can also be found in the basement library, and if you're still feeling a little lost, work­shops are provided during the semester. 
Resume Expert is a special program which Career and Placement offers to students for eighteen dollars, in order to help them find jobs. Once the student has completed the resume on disk, it can be easily formatted into the database network. 
The student answers a whole series of questions which include personal experience, special skills, and even geo­graphical preference. All their answers are taken into account realative to companies nation­wide which recruit Notre Dame students. 
When companies contact Career and Placement they request specific criteria which they are looking for. Academic major, internship and job inter­ests are all possible require­ments. Through the database, Career and Placement can then match up the students to the company that could potentially best suit their needs. 
According to Kitty Arnold, the director of Career and Placement, both the resume and cover letter are essentially the only two pieces of paper which represents the student. 
They are essentially the stu­dent's passport to the working world. Therefore, she empha­sizes that both documents "should be strong and powerful as possible." 
Everything from the working of the resume, to its appear­ance, and even the kind of paper used can make an im­pression. 
and two students. These two Saint Mary's students have been randomly selected by 
S.A.B. to assist the cast mem­bers. 
These two Saint Mary's stu­dents, Christine Ross and Alexis Dunbar, will be briefed on their role in Murder Mysteries two hours prior to the show. 
During the presentation, a "murder" will occur. Students and audience members may then approach the cast to ask for clues to solve the mystery. 
This exciting event requires 100% audience participation, according to McCandless Hall Junior Kelly Kilmer, S.A.B Cultural Chairperson. "It's very interactive. Whoever solves the murder becomes the master sleuth and wins $50," she said. 
page 9 

"Those making accusations, however, must name not only their suspect, but how their suspect committed the mur­der, "said Kilmer. 
Kilmer is excited to bring Murder Mysteries back to Saint Mary's after a successful turnout last fall. 
"Murder Mysteries has been popular on other campuses and we thought it would be fun to bring it here again," said Kilmer. 
She invites everyone to come for a good time and just to have fun. 
This event is one of the many upcoming entertainment features sponsored by the new S.A.B. members. Admission for this year's per­formance of Murder Mysteries is $2. 
Never too late for resumes 

As for the creativity of the 
getting your act together, take resume, Arnold suggests cau­heart. Somewhere out there in
tion when deciding on the 
your destiny is a job with yourextent of inventiveness. 
name on it. And your resume isOriginality is good, but a fine the first step towards finding it. 
line between professionalism 
. . . .. . . 
.. e'li' writing a resume: DON'T: 
•Show 
your power to •Date your resume. articulate, 

•Ust 
salaries or amounts~Stres~ yo~ ~trengths. Qfscholarships 


yourand 

• I 
i 
and tactlessness should be observed. "Making yourself too different is like shooting your­self in the foot," Arnold says. Instead the student should stress her strengths, and allow her skills and experience speak for themselves. 
Exactly how much work this resume writing entails can vary greatly with each student. For example, a student who is fo­cused on being an accountant already has an idea of what di­rection she wants to take. Others without a specific career in mind may not be so lucky. These students need to focus more on what they want, and determine a specific angle to express in their resume. 
Campus interviews can also be set up through Career and Placement. For a twenty-dollar processing fee, students are able to interview with visiting business recruiters. 
Even ifyou have been slow in 
--~----~--~---------------~-­
,--------------­
~ 
I I I 
I ~p~ag;e~l~l======~==~~============~~~~~~~T~he~O~bs~e~IT~e~r·~S~P~()~R~T~S~~;;~~~~:;~;:~=;=~~ed~n=e=sd;a=~=S=ep~t=em:=be=r;I~4;,1:9=9=4
•fi d 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classl le S 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NC>TICES  Disappionted senior requires 4 year tuition refund. Call James: 4-2238  SMC CLASS RING PETITE W/ DIAMOND 10KGOLD  DESPERATE!! I Need 2 Stanford GA's for out-of-town relatives. Willing to pay $$$. Call X4820  I NEED 2 STANFORD GA'SI Call Pat : 289-3736  WANTED: ONE PURDUE TICKET, STUD. OR G.A. CALL TODD: 273-5352  
MAKE AN OFFER  IHELPI need 1 GA ticket to NAVY  
USED TEXTS CHEAP! !II  •••cOACH'S SPORTS BAR•••  273-6205  I need 2 BYU GAs.  game, for little brother. Call Paul  I NEED FOUR TICKETS TO THE  
Buy & sell used books at the only  Now hiring All-Star Cooks and  Will pay Big $$$.  4-1008  STANFORD GAME ON OCTOBER  
hip place in town 1 0-6M-S/9-3Sun  Servers for part time work.  Macintosh LC-2 (4-80)  Please call Laura: 284-4328.  1. CALL B. J. AT 1244.  
PANDORA'S BOOKS  Weekends and a positive attitude a  14" BW monitor  Need 2 stud & 2 GA for BYU or air  
NO ave & Howard St 233-2342  must. Apply in person.  purchased spring 1993  I need 4 GAs for any home game  force. Have navy/purdue for trade.  WILL TRADE 2 STAN FOR 2 FSU  
$900 or closest offer  BIG $$. Ruth x2359  call shannon @ x4236  CALL KAREN X4290  
PAPA JOHN'S is HIRING!  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT:  Robbie 273-9213  
-delivery & inside personnel  Are you interested in making  HELP! I need 2 TIX to the Stanford  WANTED 3 GA EITHER NO VS  NEED GA'S TO ALL HOME  
-flexible schedule  $8,000 next summer while manag­ 92 NISSAN SENTRA, 53K (ROAD  Gamel Call Patty at  PUR, STAN, BYU CALL COL 215­ GAMES. CALL JOE AT 2712.  
-top pay  ing and operating your own busi­ MILES), 2DR, AC, CRUISE, CASS,  1-800-697-9141,1eave message.  355-7131  
-10-40 hour schedules available  ness? Triple 'A' Student Painters  PB, PS, 1 FEMALE OWNER,  Need 3 GAs for any home game.  
-1/2 price pizza  seeks managers to fill Ml and IN  GREAT SHAPE, ASKING $7200  SEEKING TO BUY TWO OR FOUR  NO FAMILY REUNION needs  Call Mike 674-5125  
-EOE  regions. No exp. necessary. Great  CALL 288-8195 (LEAVE MES­ GA TICKETS TO ANY OR ALL  Stanford TX. TOP DOLLAR. Call  
call271-11n  resume builder. Contact Michael  SAGE)  NOTRE DAME HOME FOOTBALL  517-332-4719.  Wanted 2 or 3 GA's together for  
Willis at x2040 or 1-800-543-3792.  GAMES. CALL BILL HOGAN,  BYU 10/15 or Air Force 11/19 Call  
IL()ST & F()UNDI  HELP WANTED: ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER  85 Honda Accord $1,500 Call Harold at 273-9581  DURING DAY AT OFFICE AT (217) 782-6995, AFTER 10 PM AT  seeking purdue and be ga's karenx3792  Lara 219/273-8961 need 1 st. tix for purdue  
FOUND­ ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS  FOR SALE:  (217)698-9267.  TO TRADE -8 (6 TOGETHER)  call Matt X4327  
HUFFY 3-SP LADY'S BIKE -BUR­ NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND  SMITH CORONA PWP 3850 PER­ STANFORD FOR FSU. CHRIS OR  
GANDY. CALL SGT. CATTRELL 1­ ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY  SONAL WORD PROCESSOR  I NEED 1 BYU student ticket.  ED BULLEIT 800-786-8723.  Need Stnfrd stdnt or GA tixs, call  
8340  NEWS SERVICES,  WITH SCREEN. PAID $400. SELL  Please call KELLY x4028  Chris x1197  
232-3205 OR 288-9361.  FOR $200. CALL 272-3753 AFTER  Have pairs of Stanford and Airforce  
FOUND: A camera. Call Tom x2212  7 PM OR LV. MESSAGE & WILL  Need one G.A. Ticket for PURDUE  GA's willing to trade for Michigan or  $$1 NEED 2 Purdue GAs$$  
SKI RESORT JOBS -Hiring lor  CALLBACK.  Call X3357  Fl. State GAslll Contact x4097  Call Rich at 273-2474  
WANTED  many positions for winter quarter. Over 15,000 openings! For more  BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS  NEEDED:  asap.  I need stud. tix for Purdue. Call  
information call: (206)634-0469 ext.  CALL COLIN AT 273-6205  TICKETS FOR THE BC GAME.  Need 2 BYU GA tix. Need 3  Tom at271-1390 ASAP.  
ARE YOU READY FOR A HEAV­ V55841  CALL LIZ AT 284-5012.  Stanford STD. tix. Need 2-6  
ENLY EXPERIENCE?  TASCAM Multi-track Cassette  Stanford GA tix. I'm in some serious  Looking to trade 2 Navy GA's for  
BECOME PART OF AN INTER­ National Park Jobs -Over 25,000  Deck. 4 tracks, 12 inputs. Call  NEED 2 STANFORD GA'SI  NEED so please call Rachael at  2 Air Force GA's! Call Liane 4-4989  
ESTING, CHALLENGING RETAIL  openings! (including hotel staff, tour  631-7133  call Erin @ x2770  x4667. Will pay BIG MONEY.  
OPERATION. PREVIOUS FOOD  guides, etc.) Benefits & bonuses!  Need lotsa Navy Tix or GAs  
SERVICE EXPERIENCE HELP­ Apply now for best positions. Call:  For Sale 84 Honda Accord LX  I NEED 2 G.A. TIX FOR PURDUE  NEED 1 MICH. 4 PUR.,  Have Big Family  
FUL. IMMEDIATE OPENING.  1-206-545-4804 ext. N55841  85,000 miles • 1 owner , all mainte­ CALL grace x4290  + 2 STAN. STUD TIX.  Charlie x3830  
HOURS 1:30-6:30 MONDAY THRU  nance by Honda, $2500 or best  CALL 234-8958.  
FRIDAY AND EVERY OTHER  offer 273 0928  WANTED: 2 AF GA'S  Need 2 Purdue GA's.Call John  
SATURDAY 8:30-2:00.  SPRING BREAK '95-SELL TRIPS,  4-2628 -MESSAGE  Will trade 4 BYU GA's for 4  x3283  
APPLY IN PERSON AT HEAVEN­LY HAM, 2307 EDISON BETWEEN  EARN CASH & GO FREE!! I Student Travel Services is now hir­ TICKETS  SEATTLE A TTY'S WILL PAY TOP  Stanford GA's. Call Scott (NO 91) @ (201 )402-9372  For sale: 1 married & 1 stud tix for  
8:30-10:00 OR  ing campus representatives. Lowest  $FOR 2 STANFORD G.A.S  navy & purdue. call shannon @  
2:0D-5:00.  rates to Jamaica, Cancun, Day1ona  NEED 2 GA'S FOR ALL GAMES.  (219) 289-3412  $$$$$$$$$$$  x4236  
and Panama City Beach. Call 1­ CALL BOB 219-232-5297.  Parents & Iii sis R flying in for the  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! SELL 8 TRIPS &  800-648-4849.  ST. JUDE, WANT 2-4 SEASON OR  NEED 2 BYU GA'S AND 4 PUR­DUE GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$$  STANFORD GAME. Need 2-4 GA'sl  PERSC>NAL  
GO FREE! BEST TRIPS &  WANTED: TIX FOR PURDUE  INDIVIDUAL GA TIX.  call Brian@ X1739  Please Call Dayne 273-4412  
PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN,  GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR.  312-404-4903 DAN.  $$$$$$$$$$$  GO ACROSS CAMPUS UNDER A  
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT  JILL 273-6942  WANTED: BYU GA'S WILL PAY  GROOVY TIE-DYED WOOD­ 
RESUME EXPERIENCE! 1-800­ WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU  BIG BUCKS. CALL KRISTEN OR  @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  STUCK UMBRELLA. $13.00 +  
'  .. ­ 678-63861  Desperately need 1-3 GA's for Air Force, Navy or BYU. Please call  TICKETS. CALL 800-922-2327 JANET.  KATE @ 271-0224  @ Need 2 GA's for BYU. Please call  S&H. CALL 1-800-259-1250 TO  
PART TIME WORK AVAILABLE  Ann@ x4544.  DESPERATELY NEED  Katie 282-1603  ORDER.  
TAKING PHYSICAL INVENTO­ ND VS FSU NOV. 12, CITRUS  4 Purdue GA's  
RIES. WORK AROUND YOUR  SOCCER REFEREES! Students  BOWL  OR new family willing to adopt  Need 4 Navy Ga's  $5.50 HAIRCUT  
SCHEDULE. DAYS AND/OR  needed to referee soccer games for  FAN NEEDS TICKETS. PLEASE  a soon-to-be disowned son  David x3406  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
WEEKENDS. $5.25 PER HOUR  southside elementary school  CALL 407-246-1879. MAY CALL  Call Troy 255-1740  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
CALL 272-0408 CLANCY INVEN­ (Grades 5-B), located near  COLLECT.  NEED 2 GAs TO PURDUE  233-4767  
TORY SERVICES  Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.  I need BYU stud tix---call Aaron  CALLx3213  
All games scheduled between 4  I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.  @1889  DJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJ  
RESORT JOBS-Earn to $12/hr. +  and 5:30pm, Monday-Friday,  272-6551  ••• ATTENTION ALL VERY •••  
tips. Theme Parks, Hotels, Spas, &  Sept. 9-0ct 29. $15-$20 per game.  I need 2 PURDUE stud. tix. Call Bill  •• COMPASSIONATE FEMALES ••  The Alumni-Senior Club is looking  
more. Tropical & Mountain destina­ Must have referee uniform. Call  x1862  Desperately need 1 Stud. Tix for  for a OJ to work busy nights, espe­ 
tions worldwide. Call (206)632-0150  291-4200 or 291-8731.  4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED.  HTH at Purdue and BYU games!! I  cially football weekends. Please  
ext. R55841  CALL X2875 (NICKY)  NEEDED: NO FAN NEEDS 4 GA Tl  Please call Steve x3213  pick up an application at the  
I need a couch (271-9223)  CKETS FOR NO/PURDUE GAME.  Student Activities office and return it  
WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST  PLEASE CALL BRENT  I HAVE 2 STANFORD GA'S.  by Friday, Sept. 16.  
GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO­ F()RRENT  Need tix: 5 BYU G.A'S; 4 STAN­FORD G.A'S; 2 STANFORD  (602)820-7469  WILL TRADE FOR 2 FLA.ST. TIX. CALL TED 256-5727  Fun work-9ood tips!  
MOTE SPRING BREAK TO  
 STUD.--CALlJOE @X2765  I NEED PURDUE TICKETS!! Ill  
JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS,  ROOMMATE needed. Female prel.  $$$$GA OR STUD  I NEED BYU GA'S, BYU STD'S,  DJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJDJ  
FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE  Oak Hill Condo. Own room & bath.  STANFORD GA'S NEED 4.  X4976  AND 2 STANFORD GA'S.  
TRAVEUCOMMISSIONS! SUN  Call 273-4485.  MATT 257-0564  MIKE X-3767.  WANTED: PHEMALE PHISHEADS  
SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-n10.  I NEED ONE NAVY G.A.  PHOLLOW PHISH  
DESPERATELY SEEKING GAs for  CALL MIKE X3692  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  PHALL BREAK. SHOWS 10/25-27.  
ASSISTANT SWIM COACHES for  THE HOMESPUN COUNTRY INN,  PURDUE and NAVY. PLEASE  CALL SUZY AT 4072  CALL MATT@2n-9926;SLIM@  
a  NAPPANEE. ANTIQUE FILLED  HELP -$$$. Call Alisa -634-4355.  I HAVE 2 PURDUE GAs. I WANT  271-9676  
local age group team.  BED & BREAKFAST, 35 MIN. TO  2 AIR FORCE GAs.... PLEASE  I NEED 3 PURDUE GAs-x4872  
Afternoon and/or evening hours,  NOTRE DAME. MENTION THE  Need 1 stud or GA for PERDU  CALL IF YOU WANT TO TRADE!  Seamaisin at The Midway Tavern,  
various days of the week.  OBSERVER FOR 10% DISC. 219­ $$Please call JULIE x2534$$  Call Katie at X2719. Thank you!  I NEED PURDUE TIXI  Mishawaka, Every Thursday  
Call 289-SWIM.  n3-2034  SANDY x4638  
DESPARATELY NEEDED:  NEED 3 GAs or STUD. tix for PUR­ 
ASAP I need a dependable  THE PRIMROSE PATH BED &  STUDENT OR GA'S FOR  DUE call Rob x-4333  I need 1 BYU GA and 1 AIR  HAPPY BIRTHDAY  
weekend sitter for a 1 year old.  BREAKFAST-Historic Horne, quiet  STANFORD, PURDUE, NAVY  FORCE GA. Have 2 NAVY GA's to  SANDRA NASHIF!  
References a plus. Call 232-5261  setting, 4 guest rooms, shared  AND A.F.. CALL RACH 233-1761  Ticket Trade: Have 2 Stanford  sell/trade. Mike 273-8925  Love, Carolee and your  
leave a message.  baths. 20 minutes to campus.  GAs, need to trade with 2 Purdue  fellow Walshites  
616-695-6321 .  NEED 3 BYU GA TIX & 1 STUD  GAs, call 273-0226.  I need 2 Purdue GAs for my par­ 
NEEDED: 1 roommate for OC apt  BYU call 1722 if you have them  ents. Name your price. Call Jim at  
call 273-5299 thnx  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY.  Need 6 stu. ticks for Purdue call  289-5486.  WVF1640AM  
PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC  I NEED 2 Purdue GAs II  Kevin @ 273-8699  COUNTDOWN TO NEW MUSIC  
PART TIME WAREHOUSE WORK  EVENTS.  Will pay big $$$  Need GAs  5 DAYS  
Accepting applications for part­ 219-291-7153.  Please call Amy 4-3427  I need 2-4 GAs or 1 stud. ticket for  Any Home Game  
time order fillers and stockers.  any home game\ Please call soon!  4-3703  LOOKING FOR MR. WONDER­ 
Approximately 20-25 hrs weekly.  1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR  NEED LOTS OF BYU TIX HAVE  Lindi-284-5151  FUL?  
Apply at Richmond Master Dist.  RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS  AIR FORCE  $$$Wanted: Two Stanford &  Look no further than Carroll Hall.  
4202 Technology Dr. (west on  PROPERTIES. 272-6306  & PURDUE TIX.  Need GA's for Purdue! Call Jeff  B.Y.U. G.A.'s. If you have the tks.,  Available: One Dan Fannon.  
Cleveland Ad to Technology Dr.),  CALL ERIN 4015.  X2174  I have the cash.$$$ Call Eric 4073.  because that's all you can handle.  
or call Chris at 239-0310.  F()RSALE  NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME.  HELP!! I I NEED 3 PURDUE GA'S  For Sale: Ftbl student booklet. Must  Virgin but willing to learn x4116  

 PLEASE CALL CHRISSY x3415  $$$CALL JEANNIE x2891$$$  sell. Call 4-2689  WANT CASH FOR USED OR  
MACRI'S DELl -BOTH LOCA­ UNWANTED BOOKS?  
TIONS  NEED 2 TICKETS FOR STAN­ I HAVE 4 PU AND 4 NAVY GA  CALLX1458  
r- Now hiring all positions. Good  RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR  NEED 1 PURDUE stu. or GA tick­ FORD GAME SO PARENTS  TIX. NEED TO TRADE FOR  
starting pay plus many benefits and  FOR ONLY $79 FOR TWO  et. Call BRAD x1999.  CAN SEE FIRST NO FOOTBALL  STANFORD TIX.  Play Ultimate!  
incentives including bonus pay and  SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV­ GAME. CALL MARIANNE X3295  634-1728.  
extra vacation days. 214 Niles Ave.  ERY CALL:  HELP! Wanted: 1 student tix or 2  Need 2 GA or stud. tix to BYU  
282-1351, 2n-7273 Grape Rd.  COLLEGIATE RENTALS,  GA's to Purdue. Please call Mary  I NEED 2 STANFORD GA'sl  leah x4704  
Apply within.  272-5959.  at #634-2994.  Call Pat : 289-3736  

Irish 
continued from page 16 
trol and they dominated us tonight" 
One concern for the Irish 
A&M. But after playing 10 games in 13 days, a more re· laxed game like last night was a break for the Irish. Also, Brown emphasized the impor­tance of getting everyone on the team some experience, es­pecially with a key element to played." 
Looking ahead to this week­end, the Irish kick off the tour­nament Thursday night versus No. 15 Colorado who was ranked ahead of the Irish last week, but dropped below them, a worry for Brown. 

The Observer 
SPORTS STAFF 
is looking for writers and copy editors. 
For information contact George Dohrmann at 631-4543 
might be that less competition the Irish game plan being its "The lower rank gives last night might affect them go­depth off the bench. Colorado more incentive ing into such a tough tourna­"It's always good to play ""We just need to think about ment this weekend, in which more competition," said each individual match and play they will face Colorado, Brown," but again, it's very one point at a time. I think we Michigan State, and Texas important that everyone are capable of winning" 
----------·~--~--~-~­
------~--~ -----~-----~----~----
Wednesay, September 14, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll. 
Hayden Fry, Iowa worried about trip to Happy Valley 
By GREG SMITH play the sixth-ranked Nittany sorts of promises that the air­the stadium for Saturday's Associated Press Uons is no easy matter, either, port at State College would be game. Iowa football coach Hayden Fry enlarged. "I kind of agree with Bobby IOWA CITY, Iowa said Tuesday. That hasn't happened yet, so Knight. He said, 'You can't get 
It's bad enough that Penn When Penn State was invited Fry's Hawkeyes will have to fly to Happy Valley from Indiana, State is so good, but just ven­to join the Big Ten Conference a into Harrisburg and then make and once you get there, you turing to Beaver Stadium to few years ago, there were all up to a three-hour commute to can't get back,' " Fry said, 
rr==================================i'! quoting the Indiana basketball
coach. 

t 
FACULTY NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S SINGLES GROUP 
Social gatherings of single faculty have been sponsored since 1992. Regular gatherings take place monthly, special events or outings occasionally. Come help us begin a new year and meet old and new colleagues. 

Saturday, September 17 4:30p.m. Fischer Graduate Community Center Inside-Outside for Good Weather or Bad Access to Large Screen TV for ND-MSU Game 
Burgers, dogs, soft drinks provided 
Bring a salad or dessert, if you wish. 
For further information call Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C. 1-8601 or JoAnne Bunnage 1-4617 
Co-sponsored by the Singles Group and Campus Ministry 
Attention: 
Undergraduate Schools Committee Volunteers 
If you want to represent Notre Dame at your high school over fall or Christmas break you must attend one training meeting. 
If you missed the training meeting last Wednesday evening, you still have two opportunities: 
Wednesday, September 14 
or 
Thursday, September I 5 
Each meeting will begin at 
8:30p.m. 
and will be held in 
Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Room 122) 
If you have any questions, please call one ofus: 
Jennifer Carrier  Luke Woods  
Undergraduate Admissions  Student Coordinator  
631-7505  634-1962  

The Hawkeyes (2-0) face their first stern test of the season against a Penn State team that has whipped Minnesota and Southern Cal by a combined score of 94-17 in its first two games. 
Iowa has beaten Iowa State 37-9 and Central Michigan 52­21. 
"This is the kind of ball club that can put the hurt on peo­ple," Fry said about the Nittany Uons. 
The last thing Fry wants is distractions, something that's likely to happen on the way to the game. 
"That's what happens on those long trips," he said. "Everything's so pretty. You're watching the eagles soar around, the deer standing up on the rocks looking down at you and everything. 
Then you walk into Beaver Stadium and you're walking right into 155 howitzers­right at you; big change of envi­ronment." 
Fry said it's the same at other schools, such as Arkansas, where airplanes have to "land way back in the pea patch someplace to get there." 
"The runways at Fayetteville, Ark., are right on top of the mountains. You don't throw your anchor out ... 
"And then you go through all those winding hills of the 
Even Kinnick Stadium in Iowa City can seem imposing to visi­tors, Fry said. 
"The stands are right on top of the sidelines and everything. That's a new experience who've never been in our place. We have an advantage there," he said. "People go to sleep in the dressing room. They like that pink color." 
Fry said he'd like the Hawkeyes to at least walk through Beaver Stadium on Friday night but said that would depend on weather and traffic. If they can't make it, he said it won't be a problem "if I don't make it one." 
"So much is mental, like peo­ple used to artificial turf. A lot of teams were beat before they played the game. Or you go to Colorado, can't breathe, high altitude," Fry said. 
Fry, appearing relaxed and jovial, stayed away from talk about his 1983 team that went to Happy Valley and came away with a 42-34 victory, the most points scored against Penn State at Beaver Stadium. 
Instead, he heaped praise on the Nittany Uons and coach Joe Paterno. 
"There's not really anything you can think of bad about Penn State. It's kind of the utopia in college coaching, whether it's academics or foot­ball or a man like Joe Paterno as their leader. It's all A-plus, No. 1," Fry said. 
''I'm not going to say any­thing but nice things about Penn State, the environment, the food. It's about the only thing we'll get to enjoy," he 
Ozarks and everything, it's said. ''I'm not looking forward beautiful." to this trip." 
ART PRINT &POSTER SALE 
Sponsored by LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
FEATURING: 

• Prints of Master Artists 
(Including the works of Dali, Gauguin, Kandinsky, Matisse, Miro, Monet, O'Keeffe, Picasso, Remington, Renoir, & Van Gogh, plus many others) 
• M. C. Escher Prints 
• Personality Posters 
• 
Rock Bands 


• 
Black & White Photography 


• Contemporary Posters 
• Framed Prints 

DATES: TODAY Thru FRIDAY TIME: 9:30A.M. -6:00 P.M. PLACE: NOTRE DAME ROOM (2nd FLOOR), LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
3 PRINTS FOR ONLY $17! 
--~----------­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 14, 1994 

1994 Notre Dame 

Horace Grant free to sign with Magic 
Tue., 22  VERICH REPS  
Sun., 27  VALPARAISO  
Tue., 29  INDIANA  


Sat., 3 at San Diego Mon., 5 at Loyola Marymount Sat., 10 at DePaul Thur., 22 ST. BONAVENTURE Tue., 27-28 at Far West Classic 
First Round: ND vs. Oregon St. Or. vs. G. Wash. 
Final Round 3rd Place Game Champ. Game 
Sat., 31 CORNELL 
Tue., 3 LEHIGH Thur., 5 LOYOLA(MD) Sat., 7 at Louisville 
Tue., 10 COLUMBIA 
Thur., 12 at Missouri Sun., 15 HOFSTRA Tue., 17 at Dayton 
Sat., 21 XAVIER Tue,. 24 DUKE Sat.,28 BOSTON COLLEGE 
Wed., 1 IONA Sun., 5 at UCLA Wed.,8 DUQUESNE 
Forward is still shopping services, Bulls an option 
ORLANDO, Fla. 
The ball was in Horace Grant's court Tuesday after a federal judge ruled that the all­star power forward's $22.3 mil­lion contract with the Orlando Magic could be illegal. 
Magic officials indicated they would not pursue the issue in court but would try to sign Grant to a contract acceptable to the NBA. 
But Grant and his agent could have other ideas. 
U.S. District Judge Dickinson Debevoise decided Monday in Newark, N.J., that a one-year escape clause in the contract could be a circumvention of the NBA's salary cap, which is de­signed to prohibit the richest teams from signing all the best players. 
NBA officials hailed the deci­sion. They had argued that ~ams were starting to use one­year at a salary of $2.125 mil­lion, which is the most Orlando can pay under the salary cap. 
Grant would then re-sign with the Magic for the remain­der of the contract terms. 
As a result of Debevoise's rul­ing, Grant now has several op­tions, some of which do not in­clude the Magic. 
But Grant, who has said repeatedly that he wants to play in Orlando, could not be located for comment Tuesday nor was his agent available for comment. 
Grant could sign a long-term deal with Orlando with a two­year opt-out. Jeff Mishkin, the NBA's vice president for busi­ness and legal affairs, said the league probably would accept such a contract because it would mean the player accepts more responsibility for a lower salary over a longer time. 
Grant could agree to a 1-year, $2.125 million contract with the Magic, or sign a contract with another team with money to spend under the salary cap. 
He could return to the Chicago Bulls, who tried to re­sign him to a $20 million con­tract over five years. 

This could go higher because teams are allowed to exceed the cap by any amount to re­sign their players. 
Grant also could ask for a full hearing before the judge, whose decision was in a motion for summary judgment. Grant's agent, Jimmy Sexton, indicated Grant might take that course. 
"It just means we'll have to have a one-day hearing, but our facts were better than any of those other cases, so we're confident," s·exton told the Chicago Tribune. 
The Magic's John Gabriel doesn't like that option. 
"(The judge) has already said that the league has a good case here," said Gabriel, Orlando's vice president of basketball op­erations. 
"He said he will not argue the fact that the league has the right to challenge this. I think he also cites that these one­year, option-out clauses may not be in the best interest of the league." 
Heightening the Magic's con­cern is the fact that training camp opens in three weeks, and further legal action could take a lot longer. 
Charles Grantham, executive director of the NBA Players' Association, said the union would urge Grant to continue the court fight. 
"The NBA puts out a press release saying they won," Grantham said. "How could they come out and say that was a victory? What the judge was saying is that there seem to be some facts in dispute, and we need to have another hearing on this." 
While leaving Grant in limbo, Debevoise upheld the contracts of A.C. Green of Phoenix, Chris Dudley of Porland and Toni Kukoc of Chicago. 
See Michigan State Sports Extra in Friday's Observer 


Wednesday, September 14, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Tailback talk surfaces at Ohio State 
By RUSlY MILLER 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Eddie George still is the start­ing tailback at Ohio State. But the gap between him and his backups grows smaller every day. 
Buckeye coach John Cooper said at his weekly Tuesday lun­cheon that he and his staff were taking a long, hard look at the tailback position heading into the 24th-ranked Buckeyes' 98th home opener Saturday against Pittsburgh. 
"We've got to have better production out of that posi­tion," Cooper said. 
Cooper acknowledged that George was No.1 and "a great individual," but then discussed ways the sophomore needed to improve. 
"He needs to run with his eyes," Cooper said. "The other thing Eddie needs to do -and he's a great kid to be around ­Eddie needs to spend more time in the film room. He needs to spend more time with his position coach. He needs to know the blocking schemes. He needs to know to cut it out­side." 
He added, "Whether he can ever get the vision, the kind of vision you love to have, I don't know. That remains to be seen." 
George has gained 198 yards and scored three touchdowns as the Buckeyes have split their two starts in 1994. Dimitrious Stanley, a sophomore whose father is a former Ohio State assistant coach, has carried eight times for 26 yards. Pepe Pearson, a freshman from Euclid, has five carries for 20 yards. Jermon Jackson, a fresh­man from Ironton, seemed a likely redshirt candidate but may see action as quickly as Saturday. 
Cooper said George has a ten­dency to rely on his own instincts and run over potential tacklers rather than patiently wait to pick up a block. 
"Eddie is so determined. He wants to do it but he thinks he can do it on his own," Cooper said. "You can't do that at this level. You can't do that against 
GO REALLY IRISH! 
Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 
Sept. 13 Sept 14 7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. Montgomery Theatre Game Room LaFortune Haggar Notre Dame Campus Saint Mary's Campus 
Students discuss study at St. Patrick's College, Maynooth, Ireland. Everyone welcome! 
Washington. You can't run over those guys. You'd better follow your blocking.... Those are things Eddie will learn." 
Cooper went to great pains to say he was not blaming George for the offense's problems when Ohio State fell behind 22-0 in the first half in Seattle. He stressed that he wanted to see if other players might be capa­ble of doing even more. 
"We need to get those guys in and see how they're going to play in a game," Cooper said. 
Adding to Cooper's worries is a concussion statrting fullback Alex Rodriguez sustained against Washington. Head trainer Billy Hill said Tuesday that Rodriguez was question­able for the Pittsburgh game. 
Stopping the opponents' ground attack is almost as much of a concern to Cooper as is his own running game. Washington's Napoleon Kaufmann ran for 211 yards on 32 carries against the Buckeyes -the best rushing total by one player against Ohio State since Southern California's Charles White had 242 in the 1980 Rose Bowl. 
Making matters worse, a Pittsburgh back has run for more than 200 yards in both games the Panthers (1-1) have played. Curtis Martin had 251 in an opening 30-28 defeat against Texas and Smithfield native Billy West had 226 yards on 26 carries in a 30-16 victory over Ohio University last Saturday. 
"It's a big-time worry," Cooper said of his defense against the run. "You can't keep giving up that kind of yardage and have the kind of defense we expect to have." 
The kicks off at 12:36 p.m. 
FSU gets good news on suspended players 
TALlAHASSEE, Fla. 
A temporary agreement clearing the way for the NCAA to restore the eligibility of five Florida State football players, including All-America line­backer Derrick Brooks, was approved Tuesday by a feder­al judge. 
"The preliminary injunction is a 10-strike for us," said Florida State president Talbot "Sandy" D'Alemberte. "It gets FSU the protection it needs to go forward Saturday and the following Saturdays." 
Brooks, tailback Tiger McMillon and reserve offen­sive lineman Marcus Long were scheduled to come off a two-game suspension from D'Alemberte on Saturday, but the school was at risk of fur­ther penalties if they played without the NCAA restoring their eligibility. 
The third-ranked Seminoles visit Wake Forest this Saturday. 
Two other players, guard Patrick McNeil and offensive tackle Forrest Conoly, are serving four-game suspen­sions for their involvement in accepting gifts from prospec­_tive agents last November. 
"It gives us a chance to put this player issue behind us," said Wayne Hogan, acting athletic director. "It was be­coming a huge monkey on our backs." 
The players, however, will must sign a waiver that moves the jurisdiction of their eligibility to the NCAA under terms of the agreement. That, D'Alemberte said, should be only a formality. 


Attorneys for all sides went to work immediately on the language of the agreement described as a "workable solution," by U.S. District Judge William Stafford, who said he would then sign it. 
Dave Berst, longtime NCAA enforcement executive, said the deal looked like a way for all parties to get out of the legal morass that threatened to keep the Seminole players idle. 
Upon receiving the signed order by Stafford, the NCAA will act quickly, possibly with­in hours, Berst said. 
The agreement came after a 90-minute recess ordered by Stafford. He was not anxious to deal with the larger ques­tion on the constitutionality of a Florida law in a few minutes when he just received many of the legal briefs Monday. 
"You've been working on it all summer and you expect me to wing a decision?" he asked attorneys. 
Stafford restricted the injunction to only the eligibili­ty question and left the debate on the constitutionality of a due process law to be deter­mined later. 
SOPHOMORES!!!! Get Involved! 
Apply for the position of JPW Sophomore Committee Chairperson!! 
Applications available at LaFortune information desk September 12-16. Application deadline September 16!!! 
I 
~ i 
Sanders pleads innocent 
CINCINNATI 
An attorney representing Deion Sanders entered written pleas of innocent Tuesday to a felony charge and two misde­meanor charges stemming from a confrontation with an off-duty police officer at Riverfront Stadium. 
The Cincinnati Reds center fielder was not required to ap­pear at an arraignment before Judge William L. Mallory Jr. in Hamilton County Municipal Court. 
Instead, attorney James Keys Jr. entered written pleas of in­nocent to a felony charge of failure to obey a police officer's order and two misdemeanor charges of leaving the scene of an accident. 
A separate pretrial hearing on two other misdemeanor charges was scheduled for Tuesday before Judge David Davis. But Sanders was granted a continuance until Oct. 12 on charges of driving without a li­cense and resisting arrest. 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, September 14, 1994 

~ 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
In-Line Hockey Tourn­ament-This one day, double elimination tournament will take place on Sunday, September 18 at Outpost Sports (3602 N. Grape Rd., Mishawaka, IN 259-1000). It will be an 8 team, 5 on 5 (including goalie) tourna­ment. All equipment will be provided by Rollerblade, bur participants are encouraged to provide their own skates. The fee is $10 per team and you must register in advance at RecSports. There will also be a $5 insurance fee and transportation will not be provided. For more informa­tion call RecSports at 1-6100. 
The Climbing Wall locat­ed in the Rockne Memorial will be open for operation beginning Tuesday, September 13. The hours will Tuesdays and Thursdays 7:00-10:00 pm and Sundays 2:00-5:00 pm. All users have to complete an orientation session before they will be allowed open use. For more info call RecSports at 1-6100. 
Aerobic Classes -Classes have started for Challenge U Fitness. Make sure to bring your green exerciser ID card with you. Some classes are still open. Call the RecSports office to find out more infor­mation. 
Special Olympics -Anyone interested in volunteering for the Special Olympics in swim­ming should contact Coach Dennis Stark at 1-5983. 
Rowing Club -The Rowing Club needs a coach. Please call Chris at 273-3975. 
Novice Rowers -Practice begins Wednesday at 4:30 and 5:45. Meet at the main circle and bring insurance forms. It's not too late to JOID. Just show up Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. 
Men's Volleyball -Tryouts will be held September 18 from 2pm to 5pm and September 19 from 7pm to 1Opm in the pit of the JACC. Attendance is required for both dates. For more infor­mation, call Shawn (x1989) or Matt (234-8958). 
Field Hockey -An informa­tional meeting will be held on Thursday, September 15, at 9pm in PW's party room. Anyone with questions should call Christy (x2771) or Tanya (x2984). 
Women's Lacrosse Practice starts today at 9pm in Loftus. Bring any extra sticks. 
• SAINT MARY'S 
Belles breeze past Anderson, 5-1 
Offense shines despite Sullivans absence 
By TARA MOONEY Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's soccer team crushed Anderson University in a 5-1 victory yesterday af­ternoon. 
Maura Sullivan, Cathlynn Howe, and Eileen Newell all scored one goal each for the Belles (2-0). Lisa Nichols had an impressive performance with two scores and junior Tiffany Raczynski added two assists. 
"We played well against a team we had never faced be­fore and generally had no pre­vious knowledge of as a team," 
The Observer/Cynthia Exconde Freshman Sarah Dakel and Saint Mary's topped Anderson. 
freshman Sarah Dakel said. 

Despite several minor injuries the team performed well. Sullivan, a senior captain, sat out two-thirds of the game with an injured ankle, but is expect­ed to play in Thursday's game against Calvin College. 
"We were still tired from the weekend game but we ended up pulling together," Sullivan said. 
The Belles game against Calvin begins at 4 pm at Saint Mary's. 
"We are starting to come to­gether as a team on and off the field," added sophomore Jody Jennings. 
"I think our team played well, but there is definitely room for improvement for Thursday's game," Newell said. 
Happy 21st 
Bill ''Meat''
Maloney 
Taking off to a great future! 
Much Love, 
Mom, Dad, Meredith, & Toby 
~· IE. ~.

~ T 1'::1l .
~~-~$. ~1 y < ~\\:t · L. 
Area's only Microbrewery! 
Study Booths Baby Back Ribs Pubunito Irish Meat Pie Sandwiches Appetizers Outdoor Beergarden 61" Widescreen 1V 
256-9993 

3703 N. Main Mishawaka 1/2 Block south of Edison 
Great Feet. 

Sit back with some friends and enjoy the six feet of a SUBWAY party sub while watching the 22 feet of the Notre Dame men's soccer team In action against Xavier at 1 p.m. on Sunday. 
1 :OO SUNDAY! )
[ 

NOTRE DAME 
vs. 
XAVIER 


Alumni Field -Behind the J.A.C.C. ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID! 

Wednesday, September 14, 1994 

C.AI.VTN ANO HORRF.I\ 
Zero= Zero Alcohol. Especially if TWO QUICK QUESTIONS 
you're under 21, driving, chemically dependent, on certain medications, 1. If someone were to ask you if you or pregnant.
ZER®

drank responsibly this past weekend, what would you say? 
One= One drink per hour, which sets the pace for moderate drinking. 
2. What is responsible drinking? 
e)NB

Here is how many health professionals define responsible drinking: Three = No more than three drinks 
-
per day, and never daily.
THR:iZ AND 

If you have any questions, please call the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education at 631-7970. 
page 15 

The Observer • TODAY 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATTERSON 
-
SCOTT ADAMS 
Wl-\0 ARE. YOU, ANO W\-\AT ARE YOU DOING ON MY 1-\EYGOARD? 
\ 




"The problem, Mr. Fudd, is that you've been having a subliminal effect on everyone in the factory. We're proud of our product, Mr. Fudd, and there's no company in the world that builds a finer skwoo dwivuh.... Dang! Now you got me doing it!" 

.... 
• 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
DILBERT 
YOU'I\E NOT WELCOME 1-\ERE I CAT IT'S AGAINST ~OUSE. 1\ULES TO EAI R.ATBERT 


(generally) 
36 Colonial African 52 Don River's 23"Take-!" land 48 Dundee 
outletdenizen

24 Tankard's kin 53 Hayseed
37 Prefix with 49 Original
25 Rival of Sally Disney 54 Ugandan exile 
Arizonan 55 Needs a facelift 26 "The Cloister 38 Mil. rank 

so Gannon 57 AT&T 40Caniff's "­University home alternative author 
and the Hearth" Canyon"
27 N.Y.C. subway line 4t Bishop's 
Get answers to any three clues 
28 Busybody bailiwick 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
29 Reb general 43 Oregon's­
5556 (7:;.;. each minute).
Richard Lake 

ACROSS 
1 By the side 
&In the back 10 Hoarded 14 1936 Leslie 
Howard role 15 Nose (out) 16 Actress 
Nazimova 11 Foes at Gaugamela 20 Mythological 
lineup 21 Whomps 22-Ciaire 23 Loyal 24 Foes at the falls 
of Reichenbach 3t Topple 32 Leisure 33Card 
35 June honoree, for short 36 Taxable income 38 Philippine islana 39 Plaintive 40 Out of business 41 Camera carriage 42 Foes at Troy 46 Fix, artwise 47 "Fiyi~g Down to 
48 Bundle barley 51 Cosmetic items 56 Foes at 
Tenochtitlim 58 Mayberry 
moppet 59 Simulacrum 60 Ferber title 
~o~ 
< 
61 Level 
62 Not stifling 
63 Levels off 
DOWN 
t Notgive­2"Damn Yankees" role 3 Sign from on 
high 4 Barber's call 5 Green light 6 Pilot's vision 
problem 7 Nirvana a Cabinet dept. 9 Group based in 
Geneva tO First name in the N.B.A. t 1 Literary 
pseudonym 
1"\Y WORK HE.R.E. IS NOT DONE UNTIL I HAVE. POUNCED ON 1"\Y NATURAL E.NEI''\Y. 
\ 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Jack ~orner's 
surpnse t3ltar--(news agency) 18 Circa 30 Dear pelt 
t9As­34Fellows 

44 Narrow opening 51 Marston­(1644 battle 
45 "Hey you!" 
site)sound 

SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday,September 14, 1994 
• fOOTBJU.l 

Holtz thinks title 
chances gone 
all expect the cold weath­er to come, there is no end in sight to the success of the Irish. 
The 13th-ranked Irish are now 10-0, after defeating the Purdue Boilermakers in three games last night 15-4, 15-8, and 15-10. One of the many highlights of last night's match is that every player on the Irish roster saw playing time. 
Senior co-captain Nicole Coates led the Irish victory with 12 kills and four ser­vice aces. Coates powerful performance was too much for the Boilermakers to handle, forcing them to commit numer­ous passing errors. 
Another player who shined for the Irish was freshman setter Carey May, who contributed 1 7 assists. 
"Both Nicole and Carey did a great job for us tonight." Coach Debbie Brown said. "Carey's performance is especially impressive, because as you change set­ters. you change the rythm of the 
"I did not expect to get everyone in, but every­one came in and did a great job. 
"It's important to get everyone some experience, especially going into a big tournament like this weekend," Brown added, referring to the Colorado Coors Tournament this weekend in Boulder, Colorado. 
Purdue's looked flat, with one reason being the absence of several key players, due to injury, but Purdue Coach Carol Dewey made no excuses for her team's performance. 
"We've struggled with consistency this season," Dewey said, "but I'm not going to make any excuses for our per­formance." 
Dewey did not hesitate to compliment the Irish and their performance. "Notre Dame is a good passing team," said Dewey. "They have good ball con-
see IRISH I page 1 0 

But ifplayers prove him wrong . .. 
By TIM SHERMAN Assistant Sports Editor 

At the very best, he is a tough man to read. 
In one breath, Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz is praising his team for their performance in Saturday's 26-24 loss to, find­ing nothing but positive things to say about his team. Then, without a hint of warning, he wiH summarily dismiss any no­tion of re-entering the national championship hunt. 
So, what are we reallt to take away from last weekend. 
"I'm telling the team· that the National Championship is not realistic," said Holtz. "If they want to prove me wrong then they are welcomed to try." 
For now at least. they will be trying without tight end Pete Chryplewicz. 
"Pete Chryplewicz has broken his Navicular bone in his wrist," said Holtz. "He will defintely miss a few weeks." 
That was really the only significant injury that came about from Saturday, although two Irish stars were banged up. 
Derrick Mayes, who was helped off the field following his acrobatic go-ahead catch, sprained his ankle and did not practice yesterday but should play Saturday at Michigan St. 
Meanwhile, x-rays on co-cap­tain Lee Becton's injured foot came back negative. Nonetheless, the perpteual wor­rying nature in Holtz came through. 
"I really totally expected them (the doctors) and say he had a broken foot. I was quite de­lighted to hear it wasn't." 
Another thing that has de­lighted Holtz has been the play of the sophomore class. Besides such usuals as Powlus and Kinder, he has high hopes for a number of others. 
"Mike Doughty will play much more at left tackle and Melvin Dansby at right defensive end. You are going to see more of Lyron Cobbins at linebacker, Scott Sollmann and Emmett Mosley at wide reciever." 
While stopping short of using the hackneyed phrase"youth movement" that baseball man­agers come to love at this time of year, Holtz clearly has his eye on the future. 
"I think the National Championship is very much within our grasp with this team. 
But not this year." 

.. 

By BETSY BAKER game." Sports Writer Brown is happy with
Coates, May 
her team's performance The Notre Dame volley­tonight, especiaHy since
key three
ball team is as hot as the everyone played, but , weather in South Bend expected to see more of right now, but as we can a challenge from Purdue. 
match sweep 

Senior Nicole Coates led the Irish past Purdue with 12 kills. 

of note...
THE FULL SCHEDULE 
A look at the complete schedule for the 
Michigan State ticket lottery 
-
1994-95 Notre Dame men's basketball team. 
results can be found on page 12 
See page 12 




