----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----­

Friday, April22, 1994• Vol. XXVI No. 129 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Administrati9n changes the state of Grace 
By SARAH DORAN News Editor 
Following the 1995-96 aca­demic year, Grace Hall will be converted to a permanent ad­ministrative office building and, upon conversion, the Main Building will be vacated to un­dergo a major renovation. 
• see REACTION, page 4 
Current Grace freshmen, along with the incoming stu­dents to be placed in the hall over the next two academic years, will be moved "as a com­munity" into two new residence halls to be built by the fall of 1996, according to Patricia O'Hara, vice president for Stu­dent Affairs. 
Residents of Grace were in­formed of the conversion yes­terday by O'Hara via letter. 
Specific plans for the con­struction of the new halls-as well as the conversion of Grace and the Main building-will be considered at the University's Board of Trustees upcoming May 5-6 meeting. 
Benefactors of Notre Dame have donated funds for the new halls and a number of sites are currently under consideration, all of which fall in the South Quad area, said O'Hara. The multi-step plan is in the early stages, she added. 
The University is expected to break ground for the two 275­man residence halls next spring. The decision to build two intermediate size men's halls stemmed from the recent conversion of intermediate male dorms to female dorms-a conversion which was done to accommodate the incremental increase in female students during the past 20 years. 
As a result of these conver­sions, the Office of Student Af­fairs became concerned that men were disproportionately concentrated in large residence halls, said O'Hara. The addition of the two new halls will result in a better configuration of men's halls on campus, she added. 
"This design was chosen in an effort to maintain famility and a community atmosphere," said Dennis Brown, assistant direc­tor of Notre Dame public rela­tions and information. 
The origin of the plan devel­oped from the University's need to renovate the Main Building within the next five years. Al­though the building has been under constant refurbishing, it has not had a major renovation in its 115 year existence. Such renovation is needed to make it accessible to people with physi­cal disabilities and planned changes include the addition of an elevator. 
"The building is not unsafe, but should be improved from a structural standpoint," said Brown. "It is also needed to improve the character of the outside public areas." 
Neither the estimated costs of the new residence halls nor those of the renovation were availible. 
There is currently a shortage of availible office space on cam­pus and as the renovations will cut back on the actual amount of space availible in the build­ing, it is necessary that Grace permanently remain an admin­istrative building. 
The tower is expected to per­manently house the University's purchasing and accounting offices, among others. It is con­venient for these offices to be located on the edge of campus in order to be accessible to out­side vendors, said Brown. Offices like those of the President of the University, Admissions, Financial Aid and Student Affairs will return to the Main building upon renova­tion. 
Grace Hall was constructed with a gift from J. Peter Grace, former member of the Univer­
see GRACE I page 4 

Two professors awarded NASA research grants 
ByJOHN CONNORTON News Writer 
To better study the effects of microgravity, Arvind Varma, Schmitt professor of chemical engineering, Paul McGinn, associate professor of electrical engineering, and David Leighton, asso­ciate professor of chemical engineering were selected by NASA to receive a grant for their orig­inal research proposals. 
Varma and McGinn received a joint two-year grant totaling $229,000. McGinn and Leighton both received individual two-year research grants totaling $100,000. 
Varma and McGinn are cooperating on a project entitled "Gasless Combustion Synthesis from Elements Under Microgravity: A Study of Structure-Formation Processes." 
The two plan on studying the effects of micro­gravity on reactions between solids to produce new materials. 
Varma explained that in combustion synthesis, one of the materials melts and spreads around the other reactant. This spreading is effected by gravity, and therefore microgravity experiments will better determine the outcome of such reac­
tions.·~ 
Vanna will be the principal investigator of the grant, the person who directs the research, 

Rakow appears on ''Larry King'' 

because of his previous long term research in the 
field. McGinn will bring his materials processing 
By LIZ FORAN colleges and universities across the Security, Inc., a program which has background to his position of co-investigator. 
Assistant News Editor U.S. and abroad-Rakow is a well been instrumental in passing three "McGinn has a certain expertise which has been 
respected authority on campus federal laws and 18 state laws a great help in the past," said Varma, and he 
You may have come up against crime. requiring campuses to reveal violent hopes their newest effort will be just as success­
him as he prevented you from storm­Accompanied by a panel featuring crime statistics. ful. 
ing the field celebrating after a victo­Secretary of Education Richard Riley Although campuses are not free Although their principal research will be done 
rious game. and president of Catholic University from crime, Rakow said, it is not a here on campus, Varma and McGinn will travel to 
You may have talked to him to Patrick Ellis, Rakow, who has been problem that has gotten out of hand. Cleveland, Ohio to take advantage of NASA's 
clear up those tickets accumulated at Notre Dame for 14 years, dis­"Certainly there is crime on cam­Lewis research facility in the suburbs outside of 
for parking on-campus. cussed the safety of college campus­pus. Crime does get into the campus the city. There, they will have at their disposal 
But last night Director of NO es, what is being done to alleviate environment, but I wouldn't describe drop-tubes, drop-towers, aircraft that fly parabol­
Security Police Rex Rakow was more the problem of violent campus it as rampant," said Rakow. ic trajectories and sounding rockets, all facilities 
than an imposing campus security crime, and whether or not colleges "Violent crime is 13 percent of all and equipment that can provide several seconds 
figure in dark glasses-he was an and universities attempt to cover up crime nationally, but only 3 percent of reduced gravity. 
imposing campus security figure on violent incidents to avoid negative on campuses. Campus is actually a Varma and McGinn's research will prove of 
national T.V. publicity. safer environment," he added. great benefit to NASA if things proceed as 
The panel also included two fami­But Kathy Booth ,and Kerdene planned. 
lies who lost children to campus vio­DePriest disagreed with Rakow's
• see SECURITY, page 4 

lence and a woman whose roommate assertion. its space station at some point. With microgravity 
"NASA hopes to conduct material processing in 
was brutally attacked at Wesleyan While Booth instituted a student experiments, there are a lot of things you can do 
Rakow appeared last night on· University. run campus escort system .at better in space than you can on Earth," McGinn 
CNN's Larry King Live as part of a Howard and Connie Clery lost their Wesleyan following the attack of a explained. 
two part series on crime in daughter Jeanne to campus violence friend, DePriest's son was murdered In his separate project, McGinn will seek to 
America's schools. in 1986 when she was raped, sodom­by former students and acquain­determine whether processing in the absence of 
As president of the International ized and strangled to death as a stu­tances of his roommate. Both gravity will alleviate segregation of precipitates in 
Association of Campus Law dent at Lehigh University. DePriest and Booth agreed that more high-temperature superconductors. 
Enforcement Administrators The incident prompted the Clerys needs to be done about campus Leighton's project, "Oscillatory Cross-Flow Elec­
(IACLEA)-an organization of cam­to initiate an effort to force campus­security for students living both on trophoresis: Application to Production Scale 
pus law enforcement officials that es to reveal crime statistics. These and off campus. provide training and information to efforts have materialized in Campus 

see RAKOW I page 4 see NASA I page 4 



page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, April 22, 1994 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Bookstore's just not for everybody 
Most Notre Dame stu­

dents anticipate the begin­ 
ning  of  the  Bookstore  
Basketball season with an  
eagerness and excitement  
usually reserved for the  
opening of a J. Crew outlet.  
They relish the chance to  
showcase their amazing  
basketball skills, dream  Kate Crisharn  
up  really  witty  team  AssisranrNewsEdiror  
names,  or  at least pull  
some  outrageous stunt  
that will forever  ensure  

their· spot in tournament history. 

Not me. I realize that Bookstore is a great time, the commissioners put in an incredible amount of hard work, and there are plenty o uplifting, "Hoosier-like" stories of upstarts defeating ranked teams through their pure grit and determination. But since coming to Notre Dame, I've started viewing Bookstore (and all the conversations associated with it) with dis­taste. It only serves as a painful reminder o how difficult it is being extremely unathletic on a campus with more jocks "who could have played Division III" than any other school in the country. 
The "unathletic" label was slapped on me very early in childhood. I will unabashedly admit that I was the proverbial child who was always picked last for games. On my T-Ball team, I was relegated to being catcher-a posi­tion with about as much prestige as a Florida State diploma. In gym class, I feigned so many stomach aches, my teachers feared I might need appendix surgery. While the other kids wanted to be like Mike, I would have been con­tent to dribble one length of the court without tripping. 
My fate was pretty much sealed when my eighth-grade volleyball coach, frustrated by a season of my hands never making contact with the ball, suggested that I might want to try a different sport in bigh school. Thus began four years of running cross country and track. Since running doesn't require much in the way o hand-eye coordination, with the exception o routinely getting lost on the cross-country courses, I fared a little better. 
Despite this somewhat depressing history, I still love sports. I love watching sports, I love reading about sports, I love talking about sports. But for some reason, Bookstore just doesn't do it for me, and not simply because it magnifies my lack of athletic ability. Maybe it's the sinking feeling I get while watching a game and realizing that that incredible dork in my ecology class is a better ballplayer than I'll ever be. Maybe it's the burning desire-which will remain forever unfulfilled-to kick some serious butt on the Stepan courts. Maybe it's accepting that I'll never make the game-winning shot in a Bookstore final game. 
Whatever the case, it's not for lack of trying that I haven't been able to get over my Bookstore phobia. I asked some friends if they wanted to play with me this year, but they all came up with some lame excuses about being busy the entire month of April. 
Passing up a chance to have me on their Bookstore team? I just can't understand why. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production Laura Ferguson Kira Hutchinson Vivian Gembara Bridgette Farrell 
Sports Carolyn Wilkens Tom Schlidt Accent Mike Norbut Bevin Kovalik 
Tim Seymour Chris Weirup Dominic Amorosa Theresa Aleman Viewpoint Graphics 
Jason Thomas Brendan Regan Lab Tech Business Eric Ruerhling David Clairmont Eric Nunes Michael Martin 
The ObseiVer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The ObseiVer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are rese!Ved. 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNsl 01994Accu-Wealher, Inc. 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Israel's Rabin ready to uproot Golan settlements 
INDIANA Weather 
Friday, April22 
Accu-Weather® forecasl for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
~ OHIO 
lindianapoli3 64° J 
ILL. 
• 


NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, April 22. 50s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
.........,...-..a....a.... ~ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Another sign of preparing the ground was that word leaked in advance of Christopher's trip that Rabin asked a top army commander, Maj. Gen. Ilan Biran, to outline in a study Israel's security needs in any withdrawal from the heights. The Foreign Ministry and the Mossad intelli­gence service also presented papers. 
Officer sued by King pleads fifth 
LOS ANGELES 
A convicted police officer being sued by Rodney King moved Thursday to invoke Fifth Amendment protection against self-incrimination in an effort to stay off the wit­ness stand. Officer Laurence Powell's lawyers contend anything he says in King's civil trial could be used against him if federal appeals courts grant him a new criminal trial. Powell and Sgt. Stacey Koon were convict­ed last year of violating King's civil rights and sentenced to 30 months in prison. King's lawyers had sought to call Powell as one of their first witnesses in the punitive damage phase of King's lawsuit. But Powell's lawyers filed papers saying he can't be compelled to testify until all appeals of his conviction are resolved. U.S. District Judge John Davies said some areas of questioning may be off-limits, but agreed to rule on each area of inquiry after Powell takes the stand and invokes the privilege, probably Friday. 
Hong Kong youth sentenced to lashes 
SINGAPORE 
A Hong Kong teen-ager was sentenced Thursday to 12 lashes for vandalizing cars, the second foreign student sentenced to be flogged in a case that has drawn wide­spread attention in the United States. The conviction of Shiu Chi Ho, 16, came a day after lawyers for 18-year­old Michael P. Fay of Kettering, Ohio, submitted a final appeal for his flogging sentence to be suspended. Fay pleaded guilty last month to two charges of vandalism, each of which carries a mandatory sentence of three lashes of a rattan cane on the bare buttocks. Shiu, who pleaded innocent, was convicted of four charges of van­dalism. He was also sentenced to eight months in prison. 
Stricken Nixon lapses into coma 

NEW YORK 
Richard Nixon fell into a deep coma Thursday, two days after suffering a major stroke, and doctors said the for­mer president's condition appeared to be life-threatening. Nixon's family was at his side as his condition deterio­rated, according to a statement from New York Hospital, where he was brought after suffering the stroke 


Monday night. The hospital gave no other details and Nixon's doctors and aides declined to discuss his treat­ment or condition in detail. But other doctors said the coma sharply reduced Nixon's chances of survival and virtually guara~teed he would never recover his formi­dable powers of expression. Nixon, 81, was partly para­lyzed on the right side and unable to speak even before he slipped into the coma. 
Seventh grader shot, killed in class 

NASHVILLE 
A seventh-grader was shot and killed in a darkened 
classroom Thursday while watching a video of "Beauty 
and the Beast" with classmates. Terrence Murray, 13, 
died after being shot once at J.T. Moore Middle School. 
A student who was sitting behind the slain student was 
taken into custody. Police said in a statement that the 
14-year-old would be charged as a juvenile with crimi­
nally negligent homicide and carrying a weapon on 
school property. Class members saw the student wrap­
ping a jacket around his hand when a "pop" was heard, 
police said. Metro Nashville Police Chief Robert 
Kirchner said the shooting may have been accidental. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VisASliOCilltedPrsss 
Atlanta  87  61  Denver  84  63  New York  65  45  
Ba1rimore  68  51  Houston  77  46  Philadelphia  68  49  
Boston  55  41  Los Angeles  71  59  Phoenix  98  68  
Chicago  56  39  Miami  85  75  St. Louis  56  52  
Colombus  90  59  Minneapolis  62  38  San Francisco  64  52  
Dallas  84  63  New Orleans  81  65  Seanle  60  50  



Museum method of reflection 
By KAREN DUBAY News Writer 
This is the last generation to ever hear the voices of the sur­vivors of the holocaust and live in the presence of those who were there, according to Michael Berenbaum, director of the U.S. Holocaust Research In­stitute at the Holocaust Museum in Washington, D.C. 
In his lecture last night enti­tled, "The Holocaust and Its Remembrance," Berenbaum focused on the origins and con­tents of the national museum. 
"We must use the United States Holocaust Museum as a way to reflect on the event and its recollections, especially those recollections in the United States," he said. 
While most museums strive to "show you what they own, this museum attempts to tell you a story." Each of the three floors represents a specific time peri­od during the Holocaust. The bridges and narrow hallways help to allow the visitors to enter into the experience. 
According to Berenbaum, the exhibits attempt to, "counteract the vast dehumanization that occurs by offering a sense that 

The Observer/Colleen Moore Michael Berenbaum, of the Holocaust Research Institute, Holocaust Museum in Washington D.C., spoke on "The Holocaust and its Remembrance" at the CSC. yesterday. 
the victims were people like you, like me." 
The museum effectively does this by not portraying Jews simply as victims. Each visitor is given a card with an individ­ual's name, age and brief his­tory who perished during the Holocaust. The card does not 
Happy 21st Birthday 




JASON 
LOVE, 

MoM, DAD, LISA, 

AND MOLLY 

simply list the dates of impris­onment or deportation but of­fers personal anecdotes which help foster a sense of connec­tion with the holocaust victim. 
Within this context, he act­dressed the issue of those indi­victuals who believe that the Holocaust was simply propa­ganda. 
According to Berenbaur, Dwight Eisenhower and Gen­eral Patton visited the remains of a concentration camp during the war. 
"After walking into a cham­ber, Patton excused himself and vomited outside. Eisenhower remained and stated, 'The sol­diers who don't know what they are fighting for should now know what they are fighting against,"' he said. 
Berenbaum also offered keen insights on the importance of listening to the survivors of the Holocaust. It is his goal and that of the Holocaust Museum to "never let the experiences and the words of the victims of the Holocaust fade away." 
Keenan, Lewis hold multi-cultural weekend 
By ZOE MARIN News Writer 
Last year in the hallways of Keenan, some African American students were ex­pressing their frustrations about the lack of cultural diver­sity at Notre Dame with their 
R.A. Ben Gonring late one night. The group decided that they should. do something about it. 
This was the birth of the Keenan and Lewis Multicultural weekend. The one day event was organized solely by the stu­dents of Keenan and Lewis without the help of any faculty or administrators. It included a small panel discussion with only students on the issues of race and diversity aimed specif­ically at Notre Dame. 
"It was such a success last year that it led us to try to ex­pand it this year," said senior David Reinke, who is in charge of the event. "This year's focus will celebrate difference." 
Keenan will be kicking off tonight at 8 p.m. with a Tae · Kwon Do block-breaking dis­play followed by a hip hop dance party. The campus band Sabor Latino will also be ap­pearing at 10:30 p.m. Reinke said the hip hop dance will be an alternative to the usual party scene which involves alcohol. 
"Usually the party atmo­sphere centers around alcohol. We wanted a party atmosphere that would center around danc­ing," Reinke said. 
While tonight's theme is fo­cused on entertainment, Saturday's theme will consist of a diversity forum, resembling the panel discussion last year. In addition, Racism 101, a short film documenting the racial problems at the University of Michigan, will be shown at 8:15 p.m. followed by small group discussions. 
"Everyone will have a chance to voice their opinion on a more intimate level," said Reinke. 
Sunday's theme centers on the community, Reinke said. A mass will be given by Monk Malloy in the Keenan-Standford chapel at 4:30 p.m. A local gospel singer and an Hispanic choir group Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora will be provid­ing the music. 
The weekend of events will be concluded at a Taste of Nations Diversity Dinner fol­lowing the mass. However, Reinke said all of the 100 seats available are already filled. 
This year, Reinke hopes to bring more diversity to the event. 
"We'd like to reach out to people who don't normally get involved in these things," said Reinke. 
Reinke is backed up by a committee of 20 volunteer members from Lewis and Keenan. According to Reinke, finding people to help out was­n't a problem. 
"We hullg up signs and found that a lot of people wanted to participate," said Reinke. 
The event was funded mainly by the Lily Grant from the Office of Residence Life as well as $250 from the Hall Presidents Council and addi­tional money from both Lewis and Keenan. 
As far as Reinke's personal benefits from the event, "It's been really great being a part of putting this together. People have been really interested in this issue and have been great to work with." 
Francesco's elcomes 
all Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students! 
20% DISCOUNT 
on food 
Monday, April 25­Thursday, April28 


256-1444 

SPECIAUZING IN ITALIAN CUISINE Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest Prepared by Francesco and Family An Authentic Taste ofItaly Most Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka Hours Mon-Thu 1213 Lincoln Way West4-10 Fri &Sat 4-11 Mishawaka Sun closed (Francesco was chefat ND {or 30 Hertz Penske Truck Rental Last Minute Trucking Needs 10% DISCOUNT (if you mention this ad) Call either South Bend Location 277-0144or 291-1414  

__j 

page 4 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday April 22, 1994 

Residents react to change 
By JOHN LUCAS Managing Editor 
Upon learning that their dorm would be converted into a new office tower for the Administration, Grace Hall res­idents reacted with a mix of sadness for the loss of dorm tradition and optimism for the chance to live in a new dorm. 
"I wanted to come back here with my kids to show them where I lived," said Charles Stich. "Now, I'll be showing them an office building." 
Current freshman living in Grace will be affected most by the plan. Before their senior year, Grace Hall will close and the group will be moved to­gether to a pair of new resi­dence halls. 
Although some threatened to move off campus before they were forced out of Grace, other residents expressed interest in getting a chance to live in the new buildings. 
"People are excited," said freshman Chris Dominello. "In a new dorm, we'll have the dorm unity we don't have now. There will be more chances to get to know each other." 
Several residents discounted the idea that Grace lacks unity, explaining that floors and sec­tions often become tighter knit than many normal dorms. 
"Because the sections are laid out in a circle, it's really kind of different," freshman Brian Blank said. "Anyway, people are what really make the dorm." 
Residents were quick to stress that the change is very different from the conversion of Cavanaugh Hall. The time to prepare for the move and the group move to the new dorms are considered to be advan­tages. 
"It's really nothing like the Cavanaugh situation," fresh­man Jeremy Heckmann said. "We'll be moving into a smaller dorm where we'll get a chance to know more people. We're lucky that we're not going to be separated." 
Other residents were less positive about the future change. 
"I think the whole thing is ridiculous," said freshman Mark Mikiciuk. "I don't under­stand why they don't build a whole other building for the administration rather than go­ing through the trouble of mov­ing us out and building two new dorms-economically, this doesn't seem smart." 
Although the loss of the long­standing rivalry with Flanner Hall and the famous Number One on the roof will be likely casualties of the change, some residents are ready to begin a new tradition. 
"We're not far enough down the road to really know about the Grace tradition," Blank said. "Now we'll just have some more tradition trans­planted into two different camps." 
In any case, Thursday's an­nouncement was a jolt to all residents involved. 
"It's kind a definite shock," Blank said. "We're still not sure which is worse-getting converted to a girls dorm or being kicked out for the office space." 




NASA 
continued from page 1 

and intends on using his research grant to bring his plans off the drawing board. 
Traditionally, electrophoresis protein separation is a small scale analytical process. Leighton hopes his micrograv­ity-based research will make possible the production of pure proteins in larger quantities at reasonable prices. 
This new technique for sepa­rating proteins could be a boon for drug companies, Leighton said. A new method of isolating pure proteins would make the development of new drugs easi­er. 
Leighton hopes to patent his research, but the patenting process can be a long one, he said. 
"The problem with academic research is that it is very diffi­cult to secure financial rights, because the new method must be in a fairly exact form before it can be patented," said Leighton. 
All of Leighton's research will occur on campus. 
"There probably is no benefit in conducting my research in drop-towers or KC-135 air­planes," he said. 
All three professors saw their new resean;h opportunities having little or no effect on their current teaching duties. Varma noted that his research was more complementary to his teaching than interfering. McGinn and Varma plan on in­cluding several graduate and undergraduates in their re­search. 

Varma, a native of India, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1975 after earning advanced degrees from the Universities of New Brunswick and Minnesota. His research and teaching spe­cialties include chemical and catalytic reaction engineering, kinetics and catalysis and mathematical modeling. He was named the College of Engineering's outstanding teacher in 1990-91. 
McGinn has long been associ­ated with ND, earning his undergraduate, master's and doctoral degrees here, before joining the faculty in 1987. In addition to his research ac­tivities, he teaches courses on materials processing, thin film processing and electronic pack­aging. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1986, Leighton earned his bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from Princeton University and his master's and doctoral degrees from Stanford University. 

the construction of two new dorms near South Quad to accommo­date Grace residents. 
Grace Hall was constructed with a gift from J. Peter Grace,
Grace 

former member of the Univer­sity's Board of Trustees and continued from page 1 recipient of the 1967 Laetare Medal, the University's highest tion. 
honor. 

Attention Students! 
We will wrap, pack, and ship your items! 
Michiana Pack and Ship 715 West McKinley Mishawaka (East of Video Watch) 254-9260 
Authmized UPS Shipping Agency 

Main & jefferson 
Hours

Not a Franchise! M s
A Family Owned Business on-at ll:OO a.m.-ll:OO p.m. 
Sun 4:00-9:00 p.m. 

257-1100 
"This is How Pizza is Supposed to Tatste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery 
Call 273-2EAT 
$2 off large pizza with Student ID 
The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges those who have supported its student caller incentive program. 

Armando's Barber Shop Baiju 's Chinese Restaurant and Carry out Baker's Square Restaurants and Pie Shop Bonnie Doon Ice Cream Corporation Cactus Jack's Mexican Grill Chili's Grill and Bar The Country Harvester Damon's-The Place For Ribs Doc Pierce's Restaurant Ehninger Florist Fannie May Candies Fazoli's Flowers By Stephen Gloria Jean's Gourmet Coffees Great Wall Chinese Restaurant Hanayori of Japan, Inc. Lacopo' s Pizzeria Martin's Supermarket Noble Roman's Pizza Old Country Buffet Osco Drug Store #421 Patricia Ann Florist Radio Shack -University Park Mall Rally's Hamburgers United Limo, Inc. Wendy's of Michiana 

Friday, April 22, 1994 




Warrantless searches for drugs supported 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Senate lent its support Thursday to a controversial Clinton administration policy that would subject public hous­ing tenants to unannounced warrantless searches for illegal guns and drugs. 
Such searches, known as sweeps, were declared uncon­stitutional two weeks ago by a federal judge in Chicago who said they violated tenants' Fourth Amendment protection against unreasonable search and seizure. 
On Saturday, President Clin­ton announced a new plan to make housing projects safer, which includes encouraging 


Senators disagree on Bosnia 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Senior senators tugged in op­posite directions Thursday as the Clinton administration worked to forge a tougher pol­icy on the desperate warfare in Bosnia. Secretary of State Warren Christopher said, "We just cannot turn our back on this situation." 
Sam Nunn, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee and an influential voice on military policy, said the United States and its allies must be willing to escalate mili­tary action against the Bosnian Serbs, even if American causal­ities result. 
The West "should escalate all the way to Serbia if need be" to end the Yugoslav conflict, Nunn said. 
COMMENCEMENT TICKET REQUEST RESULTS 
ALL STUDENTS WHO ARE PARTICIPATING IN THE MAY COMMENCEMENT CEREMONY AND WHO HAVE INDICATED THE NUMBER OF TICKETS REQUESTED (UP TO A MAXIMUM OF FOUR) ON THE COMMENCEMENT TICKET REQUEST FORM WILL HAVE THOSE REQUESTS HONORED. 
COMMENCEMENT TICKETS ARE GIVEN TO EACH GRADUATE BY THE UNIVERSITY, BUT MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED FOR A CONSIDERATION (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO MONEY, GIFTS, PROPERTY). VIOLATION OF THIS REGULATION MAY MEAN YOU WILL NOT BE ALLOWED TO RECEIVE OR RETAIN ANY COMMENCEMENT TICKETS. 
THANK YOU FOR YOUR COOPERATION. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR 

tenants to sign leases consent­ing in advance to surprise weapons searches, much as a standard lease allows mainte­nance inspections. 
A non-binding resolution, of­fered by Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole of Kansas and adopted by voice vote, endorsed the policy. A condition, pro­posed by Sen. Paul Wellstone, 0-Minn., was added saying ten­ants couldn't be denied housing for refusing to agree to a search clause in their lease. 
However, Sen. Joseph Biden, 0-Del., chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, warned that even that might be reject­ed on constitutional grounds because any waiver of constitu­
Feeling dizzy 
tional rights must be freely given. 
Grace freshman Tommy Hogan takes a spin on the Gyro during yesterday's AnTostal festivities. 
Christopher went before a Senate subcommittee where he described the administration's efforts to persuade NATO allies to approve wider use of air power to protect Gorazde and five other Muslim enclaves. 
He could not persuade Sen. Ernest F. Hollings, 0-S.C., the populist-style chairman, who took a stance in sharp contrast to Nunn's. Politely but skepti­cally, Hollings urged Christopher to apply "The Mother's Test" before commit­ting U.S. warplanes to a wider conflict. 
That is, Hollings said, the Clinton administration must provide a convincing response a member of Congress could give to a mother should a son or daughter die in combat in Bosnia. 
"We are making a civil war an international war," Hollings said, brushing aside Christopher's assertion that "we are getting into Bosnia" to try to keep the war from spreading to Macedonia and Croatia. 
"They have in mind a Greater Serbia," Christopher said in an unusually strong indictment of Bosnian Serbs and their pa­trons in Belgrade. 
Congress has been consulted regularly on Bosnia, Christopher said. But Hollings, who heads the Commerce Committee and is a member of the powerful Appropriations and Budget committees as well, was not mollified. "We haven't been asked," he said, "and we haven't asked the people." 
From the opposite direction, Nunn, D-Ga., derided NATO's "pinprick attacks" last week against the Serbs. 
Racism sparked over Confederate battle flag 
By ROBERT TANNER 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, S.C. 

With the Confederate battle flag waving in the sun atop the Statehouse, blacks and whites squared off Thursday over the legacy of the Civil War and civil rights and the searing emotions the banner calls forth. · 
South Carolina is the last state to fly the flag above its state capitol. The Legislature first approved flying it 32 years ago, during the heat of the nation's civil rights unrest. 
The banner remains part of the state flags of Georgia and Mississippi. Georgia Gov. Zell Miller tried to change that state's flag last year, but the Legislature refused. 
Even before the start of a leg­islative hearing about whether to take the flag down from the South Carolina Statehouse, tempers flared. 
A black man, dressed in chains and threatening to burn the flag, was taunted by whites and told to return to Africa. Jerome Smalls returned the catcalls. 
"This flag stands for murder­ing babies and children! This flag stands for bombing churches!" shouted Smalls, a black activist from Charleston. 
"We've given you everything you've asked for! We're tired of it!" replied Betty Platt, a white woman. 
Supporters in South Carolina's Legislature say the 
Audition 
for 
READERS 
for 
Baccalaureate 
& 
Seniors' Last Visit to the Grotto 
Tuesday & Wednesday, April 26 & 27 at4:00 pm at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
flag is a symbol of Confederate heritage. Opponents say it is a symbol of hatred, racism and slavery. 
"It's a little of both. On my part, it's hate," Sam Loftis, a 49-year-old white electric re­pairman from West Columbia, said as he waited outside the Statehouse for the hearing's start. "I don't like blacks." 
Competing proposals to re­solve the dispute include letting the public vote on flying the flag, flying the Black Liberation Flag along with the battle flag or flying the flag only in April as part of a Confederate history month. 
The hearing was called by Sen. Glenn McConnell, a white Charleston Republican who supports keeping it aloft, to gauge public opinion. 
Scores of police stood side by side as a crowd of more than 100, waiting to get into the hearing room, traded barbs. 
The only incident during the hearing's early moments oc­curred when Senate security escorted a man out of the hear­ing room after he stood up and tried to speak out of order. The man, John Hill, said he was chairman of the South Carolina Save the Flag Committee. 
James Felder, a black former state legislator, urged lawmak­ers to fmd a compromise. ''I'm accusing you of perpetuating the sins of a past generation," he said. 
COMMENCE:MENT COMMITTEE 
•

0'1U5 
1V11NI5fRY 
....---~ ~------~----~---~-~
-~----~ -~--­
April 22, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 6 


THE GRADUATE SCHOOL AWARDS WERE ESTABLISHED IN 1990 TO RECOGNIZE SUPERIOR ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT AND RESEARCH ACCOMPLISHMENT OFA GRADUATING STUDENT IN EACH OF THE GRADUATE SCHOOL'S FOUR DIVISIONS. 
HUMANITIES 
Eric Watkins, Ph.D., Philosophy 
Dissertation Director: Karl Ameriks, Professor ofPhilosophy 
SOCIAL SCIENCES 
Tetsushi Fujimoto, Ph.D., Sociology 
Dissertation Director.· jennifer L. Glass, Associate Prpfessor ofSociology 
SCIENCE 

Jietai Yu, Ph.D., Mathematics 
Dissertation Director: juan C Migliore, Associate Professor ofMathematics 
ENGINEERING 
Roger J. Hilarides, Jr., Ph.D., Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences 
Dissertation Director.· Kimberly A. Gray, Assistant Professor ofCivil Engineering and Geological Sciences 

---------------~ ----------~-~---------------~--~ ---~---------------------..., 
Friday, April 22, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 






House passes crime bill, attempts compromise 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The House passed a $28 bil­lion get-tough-on-crime bill Thursday demanding life im­prisonment of three-time vio­lent and drug offenders and greatly expanding the federal crimes subject to the death penalty. 
The bill passed 285-141. Negotiators from the Senate and House will now attempt to work out a compromise with a $22 billion version approved by the Senate last November. 
"This is a historic moment," said Rep. Charles Schumer, D­N.Y., chairman of the Judiciary Committee's crime panel. "For the first time, this body is rec­ognizing the anguish on the streets that calls out to us to do something tough on crime." 
Judiciary Committee Chairman Jack Brooks, D­Texas, said the bill broke the mold of past efforts by "ensur­ing that hardened repeat offenders will be put out of commission for good while not giving up on a whole new gen­eration of young people who can be helped to avoid taking the wrong path." 
President Clinton cheered the vote. "The House of Representatives made their in­tentions clear: crime will not pay," Clinton said in a state­ment read by Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers. "Democrats and Republicans joined to­gether to break the gridlock and make our streets safer." 
The bill drew the support of 219 Democrats, 65 Republicans and one independent. Voting against it were 107 Republicans and 34 Democrats. House Speaker Tom Foley, who by tra­dition seldom votes, cast his vote in favor of the bill. 
The measure would authorize spending $13.5 billion for state prison building grants, $7 bil­lion for crime prevention, $2 billion for rehabilitation such as drug treatment in prisons and $3.45 billion for 50,000 more community police. 
The real controversy was over the nonfmancial aspects. 
The bill expands from two to nearly 70 the number of crimes that could result in the death penalty, including drive-by 

Food labeling challenged 
By JIM DRINKARD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
It's been four years since Congress passed the law re­quiring improved nutritional information on food packages, but Jack Lewis is still lobbying feverishly. 
Over the last week he's worked the phones, made a pitch to a-key congressional staffer over lunch and orga­nized a campaign to get food packagers to send telegrams to Capitol Hill. 
None of the work has any­thing to do with altering the legislation -that window of opportunity has long since passed. 
Instead, Lewis is trying to get lawmakers to press federal reg-
The 
:efHickorY Uilla!!e Love Affair 
Look At What 
$295 
Can Get You: 
• 
AGreat One-Bedroom Apartment 

• 
(Efficiencies from $280, Two Bedrooms Available from $355!) 

• 
Sparkling Pool and Sundeck 

• 
Beaumul Clubhouse 

• 
Free Aerobics Classes 

• 
Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees 

• 
Attentive Staff 

• 
Laundry Facilities 

• 
Cable TV Available 

• 
Balcony • Close to Shopping 

• 
Air Conditioning 

• 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance 


272-1880 

ulators for last-minute relief before the rules implementing the law take effect in 16 days. 
At stake, says the lobbyist for the Paperboard Packaging Council, are millions of dollars worth of soon-to-be-outdated boxes, labels and wrappers that will dumped into landfills unless regulators bend. 
Specifically, Lewis wants the Food and Drug Administration to allow food makers to use up leftover packaging with old la­bels even after the new labeling requirements take effect May 8. 
If not, "you might as well flush the money down the toi­let," said Lewis, a former Senate aide. "It is wasteful, and it is unnecessary." 
The FDA, which wrote the new rules and is responsible for enforcing them, has taken a hard line, saying the food pack­aging industry had ample time to unload its old inventory. 
"It's a matter of equity," said Ed Scarbrough, FDA's top food labeling official. "A lot of com­panies have spent time and money meeting the deadline." 
By Washington standards the issue is small. 
But Lewis' campaign offers a glimpse into the low-profile work that is the bread and but­ter of the city's lobbyists: seek­ing to fine-tune the actions of bureaucrats to serve their clients' interests. 
Lewis and his group's lawyers initially made their pitch to the FDA. But on Monday, their entreaties were rejected in a telephone call from Michael Taylor, FDA's deputy commis­sioner for policy. 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music 
Notre Dame Opera Workshop presents 
Wolfgang .9Lmatfeus Mozares 
%e Marriage of !figaro 
Garry Grice, Director 
Friday and Saturday April22 & 23,1994 8:00p.m. 
Washington Hall 
Come enjoy the FUN; it's FREE! 

Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlsonl'ravel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 
*Airfares Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. Low airfares to Europe. 
*Rail Passes Rail Passes issued in our office! No service fee! Timetables, prices, tickets available! 
*Experience Over 20 years experience working with Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students and faculty travelling to Europe. We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 
1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus­(219)271-4880 
killings and fatal carjackings and actions of big-time drug pushers, even when no one is killed. Some of the crimes car­ried the death penalty before the Supreme Court overturned it in 1972, but some, like the drive-by killings, are new. 
It would allow defendants fac­ing the death penalty to use racial statistics on capital pun­ishment as evidence of discrim­ination -a provision that Repub-licans asserted would eviscerate the death penalty. But with the support of the Congressional Black Ca)lcus, the House voted 235-192 to leave it in the bill. 
Judiciary Committee Chairman Jack Broqks, D­Texas, renewed his promise Thursday that when the bill 
emerges from the House-Senate conference, the racial statistics section would apply only to future cases. The bill would make it retroactive. 
Republicans said eliminating it entirely will be a top priority when the conference convenes. 
"In its present form, this eliminates the death penalty as we know it in this country, and we cannot vote for that," Republican Whip Newt Gingrich of Georgia told reporters. 
The three-time-loser section is much like the Senate's. It would require life in prison for those convicted in federal court of a third violent or serious drug-related felony. One differ­ence, however, is that the House bill provides an early out for some over-70 prisoners. 
Panel begins work on expanding health plan 
By CHRISTOPHER CON­NELL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

A House Education and Labor panel began work Thursday on a health bill with more benefits than President Clinton's. Its chairman said Congress shouldn't try to do health reform "on the cheap." 
But Republicans questioned how to pay for it and warned that the liberal Labor panel risked becoming "irrelevant" as other committees looked for ways to scale down the Clinton package rather than expand it. 
Even as the debate opened in Labor, Rep. John Dingell, D­Mich., chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, floated a new compromise with fresh concessions 
-1~r 


COJ/fe'de{_lng-6 
[!!] and~t}era) 
1:45 4:15 7:00 9:30 
D EMIUO ESTEVEZ MIGIIJY DUCKS 

exempting small businesses with up to 10 employees entirely from any requirement to pay for health insurance. 
Dingell would allow busi­nesses with 11 to 20 employ­ees to pay a payroll tax of 1 to 2 percent if they didn't want to buy health insurance. 
The Clinton proposal would require all employers to buy insurance and contribute 80 percent of the premiums; it would provide subsidies for small businesses. 
Dingell's offer wasn't enough to persuade Rep. Jim Slattery, D-Kan., a swing vote on Energy and Commerce. "They have not been able to present me with an employee mandate plan that is workable and politically achievable," said Slattery, who is running for governor of Kansas. 
1:15 4:30 7:30 10:00 
WHITEFANG2ffiTI 
MYTH OF THE WHITE WOLF 
2:15 4:30 6:45 9:00 
MICHAEL KEATON 



THEPAPERoo 

NATIONAL SECRETARY'S WEEK IS APRIL25·29 
~member your Secretary with $lowers $rant 
Country /Plorists ~ Gifts 
(Z~9) Z9~·3937 fi080S U.S. 3~ South
IVISA I~~ accepted 
South Bend, IN 4f*~4 
By JOHN RICE  now hopes will provide eco­ Castro's government.  She and others said they  "At a moment of crisis 000 we  
Associated Press  nomic and political backing.  Many of the 200 participants  would pressure Cuba about  understand that above the dif­ 
"I have not stopped being an  are from the moderate to lib­ granting  visas  and  letting  ferences  00. what is at stake is  
HAVANA Luis Manuel Martinez fled  anti-Communist," Martinez said Thursday. "I did not renounce  eral wings of the Cuban­American community. Cuba's  Cubans abroad invest in the is­land -something still banned  the nation and the people of Cuba," Lesnick said.  
Havana the day Fidel Castro marched in. Within months, he hopes of over­throwing the  my ideas." But he said he has "adjusted to reality." "After 35 years, the problem ... is not at the same point as it was when I began my exile in  demand that participants op­pose the U.S. embargo of the is­land ruled out the well-known, politically powerful conserva­tive groups.  for those living in the United States, however, by U.S. law. Cuba has already eased many travel restrictions and many participants reported making  "We hope that Cuba will not be a Bosnia, nor a Somalia, but a country like a phoenix rising from its ashes."  
revolutionary  1959."  Hard-line Cuban exile groups  earlier trips to Cuba.  Jorge Dominguez, a Cuban­ 
leader.  By some estimates, more than  have denounced the meeting as  Even Martinez first returned  American expert for the Inter­ 
He is back  $200 million in cash and goods  a propaganda event for Castro.  in 1988 as a journalist from  American  Dialogue  in  
35 years later  already flows into Cuba from  The radical group Alpha 66  Costa Rica.  He is  a  former  Washington, D.C., noted this  
to talk instead  exiles abroad, money the island  warned without elaboration  spokesman  for  Fulgencio  week that speakers at the meet­ 
of fight, one of about  desperately needs to help it survive the loss of billions of  that participants would be "military targets."  Batista, the dictator Castro overthrew in 1959, and a  ing included such government and Cuban Communist Party  
200  Cuban  Fidel Castro  dollars in trade and aid from  Many participants seek demo­ founder-member of the White  heavyweights as Robaina, par­ 
exiles gath­ the now-fallen Soviet bloc.  cratic reforms for Cuba, but say  Rose guerrilla group that tried  liament  Speaker  Ricardo  
ered for  a conference on the  Foreign Minister Roberto  they will not press them strong­ to topple Castro early in the  Alarcon, culture  czar  Abel  
problems of 1 million Cubans  Robaina  told  Cuban  TV  ly at this conference, which is  revolution.  Prieto and chief economic plan­ 
abroad and the Caribbean is­ Wednesday that Cuba wants to  focused on immigration.  Making his first trip is Max  ner Carlos Lage.  
land's own deep woes.  normalize  relations  with  "It is very important because  Lesnick, 62,  a  Miami-based  He said the long-term signifi­ 
The Conference on the Nation  Cubans abroad. He noted they  the unification of families is  magazine publisher and mem­ cance of the meeting would de­ 
and Emigration, which begins  have long been "an instrument  very important," said Marie  ber of Cambio Cubano, a group  pend on whether the govern­ 
Friday, marks a major effort by  used against Cuba," referring  Teri Vichot, a publicist from  led by former Cuban political  ment indicates it is willing to  
President Castro's Communist  to the support by many Cuban  Miami and a  member of the  prisoner  Eloy  Gutierrez  hold other meetings on broader  
government to court the exiles  exiles in the United States for  moderate Cuban Committee for  Menoyo.  topics and ease travel restric­ 
it long spurned as "worms" but  tough  measures  against  Democracy.  tions.  
...  . p.m. A Crace Hall  
dent reported receiving harass·  
ing phone calls.  
WED•• APRIL 20  
1:04 p.m. A Keenan Hall r(;l]:lOrlled vandalism to  MAI~IGOLD  
was parked  
MAI~KET  
if?LA'N M,N)FoR  
YovR G~uA-nON  
CEtE€RATION  
APRIL 22 CONTACT OUR CATERING 



r----------------------~-~--~ -~ -~~­
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, April 22, 1994 
while school's the rape crisis center had seen about 140
Rakow IACLEA aids campus security
women. "Its part of the big dodge," 
continued from page 1 
said Mr. Clery. By working By LIZ FORAN throughout the world. said. through the center, rapes are Assistant News Editor "We work with a lot of other The Student Right to Know
patrolling off campus locations. 
sometimes never brought to the associations to be the voice of and Campus Security Act re­"A number of schools are attention of the directors or Prevention of campus crime campus law enforcement," he quires campuses to report vio­entering into partnerships with security, he said. is the main goal of the Interna­said. lent crime and was lobbied forthe community to police off tional Association of Campus IACLEA holds an annual con­heavily by the IACLEA. This law campus areas highly populated "We need to tell people that Law Enforcement Administra­ference to discuss issues and was proposed after the brutalby students," he said. 
they need to report this," said tors (IACLEA), according to express opinions on what is rape and murder of JeanneBut Ellis said that most cam­Mrs. Clery. President Rex Rakow, who is happening, including future Clery at Lehigh University inpus crime is committed by the But despite the presence of also director of Notre Dame Se­topics and trends. "Violent Pennsylvania in 1986. Her par­students themselves. 
crime at universities, Rakow curity/Police. crime has certainly come to the ents lobbied for and passed leg­said that the campus environ­IACLEA provides training for forefront of the most pressing islation in Pennsylvania re­
"Most are not marauders 
ment is still a safer one. campus law enforcement agen­issues. Murder, rape, robbery, quiring campuses to report allfrom off-campus," he said, "80 "There are problems on cam­cies, organizes major issues burglary, larceny-those areas violent crime. After success inpercent of all crime on campus puses," said Rakow. "Serious affecting these agencies and is are the ones we are most con­Pennsylvania and other states,can be attributed to students." 
crime has risen. Look at col­a forum for discussion and cerned about," Rakow said. it became federal law. 
Campus escort services have leges and universities in com­ideas on how to deal with these Campuses are required to re­The future plans of IACLEAbeen extremely effective in re­parison to the environment issues, said Rakow. This in­port all violent crimes to the include dealing with the impor­ducing a great deal crime, ac­they are located in. The cam­cludes the publication of jour­FBI, but not the more common, tant issues regarding campuscording to Rakow. But preven­pus is a safer environment." nals, and informational book­non-violent crimes. security and law enforcementtion is impossible unless crimes lets, as well as assessment of "The largest problem on al­and giving directors "an ex­are reported. 
The efforts of the IACLEA and campus law enforcement orga­most any campus in the country change of ideas," said Rakow. the government have provided nizations and the provision of is theft. It is the largest cate­Rakow is currently serving a
Mr. Clery said she had seen a 
$14 million in grants for pre­administrative support. gory of campus crime, but it is one year term as president ofcampus that reported only two vention of campus crime, he IACLEA has 1,200 members not required to be reported un­IACLEA, as part of an electedor three rapes during a year, said. from colleges and universities der federal regulations," Rakow four year rotation. 


Former foes gather in Havana to talk, not fight 


PARTY PlATTERS Her<~ D'ot:uvRES BRUNCH ~lUNCHEON 
---~~--­
~~ 

DEPARTMENT
FRIDAY 

8:30PM 

STEPAN CENTER 
STUDENTS $3 GENERAL $5 
tickets available at the 
LaFortune Info Desk 


Friday, April 22, 1994 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Right-wing leader says no to elections 
By DONNA BRYSON 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 
A pro-apartheid leader quashed hopes Thursday that he would bring the white right wing into South Africa's elec­tions, and Zulu nationalist Mangosuthu Buthelezi made his campaign debut after ending his election boycott. 
Buthelezi said he had dropped his opposition to the election to end the violence. Fighting between supporters of the African National Congress and Buthelezi's Inkatha Freedom Party have left 100 people dead a week. 
South African security offi­cials said the violence abated soon after Buthelezi announced that lnkatha would take part in the April 26-28 election, the first to include South Africa's black majority. 
Buthelezi agreed his party would run in the election in ex­change for a constitutional pro­vision, to be enacted Monday, guaranteeing a ceremonial Zulu monarchy within the Zulu-dom­inated province of Natal. 
"We decided to make the kind of compromises we did to enter into elections to avoid more bloodshed and carnage," Buthelezi told about 12,000 supporters at a rally near Empangeni, 90 miles north of Durban. 
"Now the real struggle is on. We know what we want for our region. It is up to each and ev­ery one of you to make sure that we achieve our goal." 
The ANC and the government had scrambled to bring Inkatha 

t~ey were Notre Q~~ Dame and now... ~ THEY'RE BACK 
"THE FOLK'S BACK HOME" 
Saturday, April 23 LaFortune Ballroom 8-11:30 pm 
said the door was open to white rightists. 
But Conservative Party leader Ferdi Hartzenberg told re­porters Thursday that the ANC and government's refusal to guarantee w te aners their own homeland, or "volk­staat," made it impossible for He said Hartzenberg should him to drop his election boycott. take part in the election and 
ANC secretary general Cyril debate the concerns of white Ramaphosa reiterated rightists in the new multiracial Thursday that the ANC opposes legislature that will be chosen dividing South .Africa along in this month's elections. 
Look for The Observer's upcoming feature on Irish 


~ / <J. «'" '93 National Chumps 
High-Gloss Maroon&: Yellowon White ONLY 53.95 Send Your Oteck err M"""Y Order For B01H Produro \Be Sure To Indicate 5izes On Tees) To: PACSTICKERS-DD P.O. BOX 95 JACKSONVU..LE. IL 62651-0095 



A reunion concert of the best 

coffeehouse music ever to hit Notre Dame 



PRE~ LAW SOCIETY 
Annual LSAT Practice Test CUSHING AUDITORIUM 8 a.m. Saturday, April 23 
$5 Fee Required 
Death toll rises amid escape 
By REID MILLER 
Associated Press .. 
NAIROBI 

With estimates of the death toll from Rwanda's brutal eth­nic fighting already reaching 100,000, relief officials voiced fears Thursday that tens of thousands more may have been butchered trying to flee the country. 
At least a half-million people have fled their homes in the Central African nation since fighting between Hutus and Tutsis broke out two weeks ago. But fewer than 20,000 have crossed into neighboring countries. their traditional sanctuaries in times of trouble. 
U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali told the Security Council in New York there was no prospect for a cease-fire "in the coming days." 
He said the 1,705 U.N. peace­keepers left in Rwanda should either be reinforced by several thousand more troops and au­thorized to coerce the combat­ants into a cease-fire, or be mostly withdrawn. 
The first option is unlikely because U.N. member nations are reluctant to provide troops for another operation like Somalia, where the United Nations came to be regarded as a hostile force. 
If the peacekeepers are with­drawn, about 270 security guards and military observers and a small staff would remain in Kigali, the capital, to iry to arrange at least a temporary cease-fire and the resumption of limited humanitarian relief operations, Boutros-Ghali said. 
"The consequences of com­plete withdrawal, in terms of human lives lost, could be very severe," he said. 
Rwanda's interim govern­ment, which is dominated by the majority Hutu ethnic group, has put the number of dis­placed people at 2 million, nearly one-quarter of the popu­lation. But most aid agencies consider that figure inflated. 
"The exodus has not yet oc­curred," Geoff Loane, an International Red Cross official, said in Nairobi. "It's not clear why they have not left. We're getting confusing messages." 
Other aid officials feared the 
worst. 
Heather Wall, in charge of 
humanitarian affairs at the 
Canadian Embassy in Nairobi, 
said the Rwandan army had 
sealed the country's borders 
with Burundi, Zaire and 
Tanzania. 
"The Uganda border is open, but the few people arriving there are in very bad shape, many wounded," she said. 








BUSINESS 
page 10 Friday, April 22, 1994 
Bentsen says Japan must lead global recovery 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Japan and Germany need to do more to lift their countries out of recession, U.S. officials said Thursday as they made preparations for a key meeting of global finance officials. 
In some of his most pointed comments to date, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen took specific aim at Japan. It is criti­cal, he said, that Japan reduce its record trade surpluses that have served to impede growth in the United States and other industrial countries. 
"It's essential, over the longer run, for Japan to help lead global recovery rather than impede it," Bentsen said. "Japan can't rely on the U.S. market, nor other foreign mar­kets, to boost its economy. It must have its own sustainable, demand-led recovery." 
While Japan earlier this year came forward with an econom­ic stimulus program aimed at ending a steep recession, the Clinton administration has complained that it did not go far enough because the tax cuts aimed at boosting consumer demand were not permanent. 
On Germany, which is also suffering a severe recession, Bentsen said he welcomed recent interest rate cuts by Germany's central bank but 
By JAMES RUBIN Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The federal budget deficit grew less than expected in March and for the first half of this fiscal year is considerably lower than last year, the Treasury Department said Thursday. 
The Clinto administr tion quick seized on the good news, calling it evidence i economi 
policies are Bill Clinton 
succeeding. Private economists said the administration deserves part of the credit. 
The deficit in March was $32.3 billion, down 22.3 per­cent from February and 26.5 percent from a year ago. For the first six months of this fis­cal year that began Oct. 1, the deficit was $150.7 billion or 
17.6 percent less than the $18 2. 8 billion for the same period last year. 
The figures "prove that the Clinton administration deficit 

MARKET ROUNDUP 


Jobless claims on the rise 
By JOHN McCLAIN AA<xiated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The number of newly l~id-off worl(ers fll.ing claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly rose by 14,000 last week. It was the third straight increase, and analysts said that suggested economic growth was mod­erating. 
New applications for un­employment insurance· totaled a seasonally adjusted 364,000, up from a revised 350,000 dur· ing the week ended April 9, the Labor Department reported Thursday. 
It was. the highest level of first-time claims since 375,000 were filed during the week ended Feb. 19. Many analysts had expected a drop of about 8,000 claims. 
The revised figure for the April 9 week showed that even more newly laid-off workers had filed claims than initially 
more is needed. 

"Given the slack that still exists in continental Europe, there's still room to reduce interest rates further," he said. 
Finance officials from the world's seven richest industrial countries -the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, 
Jreasury announces deficit growth slowing 
reduction plan is doing just that, bringing down the deficit by a significant amount," said Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen. "With the economy so healthy and showing such solid growth, I'm becoming increas­ingly confident we're going to beat our estimate" of $234.8 billion for fiscal 1994. 
The deficit last year was $254.7 billion. The administra­tion now predicts the deficit will decline to $165.1 billion in fiscal 1995, down from its pre­vious estimate of$176.1 billion. 
Many economists had pre­dicted the March deficit would be around $35 billion or high­er. 
Kathleen Stephansen, an economist with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. in New York City, who had expected a $38 billion deficit for March, said, "This is tremendously good news." 
The deficit for the year so far is less than 3 percent of gross domestic product, she said, the first time it has been that low since 1989. 
Last year's tax law that increased revenues is part o the reason for the declining deficit, she said. 
thought. The department's original estimate was 348,000. First-time claims had edged up by 5,000 a week earlier, to 336,000, the first increase in four weeks. 
The four-week moving aver­age of weekly jobless claims was 345,250, an increase of 6,000 and the highest level in a month. 
Economists prefer to track the four-week average because it smooths out the spikes in the weekly reports and is consid­ered a more reliable measure of hiring trends. 
"This slowdown in the volatile claims data lends sup­port to the view that the econo­my is slowing to a more sus­tainable rate of growth," main­tained economist Bruce Steinberg of Merrill Lynch & Co. in New York. 
The nation's economy grew at a brisk 7 percent annual rate during the fourth quarter, the best since it raced ahead at a 7.9 percent pace during the first quarter of 1984. 
But many analysts said that pace could not be sustained and growth would slow to a rate of between 3.5 percent and 
4.5 percent during the first three months of this year. The government plans to announce first-quarter growth on April 28. 
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Be.ntsen told Congress on Wednesday that until the Federal Reserve began boosting short-term rates, the economy was en route to a 3.5 percent expansion this year. 
But, he added, the three sep· arate increases in the federal funds rate since February, to 
3.75 percent from 3 percent, and an accompanying increase in market-driven long-term rates likely will slow growth to 3 percent. 
The funds rate is what banks charge each other for overnight loans. 
France, Canada and Italy -tion that any major change in will meet in Washington economic policies is unlikely. Sunday to discuss problems Officials have said the recent facing the global economy and rise in long-term interest rates the status of economic reform in the United States and other in Russia. countries would be one topic 
Bentsen told reporters there under discussion at the session. will be no formal communique Bentsen repeated his belief following the session, an indica-that financial markets had overreacted to signs of faster economic growth and said he hoped that the rates would decline in coming months. 
The G-7 meeting is being held in advance of the annual spring meetings of the 178-nation International Monetary Fund and its sister organization, the World Bank. 
Bentsen, who briefed reporters Thursday on the ses­sions, said G-7 officials would meet Sunday afternoon with Russian President Boris Yeltsin's top economic team to receive information on Russia's latest economic program. 
Under that program, Russia pledged to lower its budget deficit and cut inflation to 7 percent a month by the end of the year. Based on those com­mitments, the IMF on Wednesday restarted assis­tance flowing to Russia, approving a $1.5 billion loan. 
That loan, which was to be a follow-up to $1.5 billion origi­nally provided last year, had been held up for months after Russia failed to meet its eco­nomic goals last year. 
But Bentsen and IMF Managing Director Michel Camdessus both praised Russia on Thursday for getting its pro­gram back on track. Camdessus predicted that Russia could qualify for an additional $4 bil­lion in lMF loans, beginning perhaps by the end of this year. 



Northwest increases profits 
By KARREN MILLS 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS 
Northwest Airlines Corp. increased revenues and low­ered expenses in the first three months of the year to turn an $18.3 million profit, the compa­ny said Thursday. 
The profit stands out in an industry that has been losing money in general and histori­cally has had a tough time in the slack winter travel months. The parent companies of American Airlines and USAir reported first-quarter losses on Wednesday. 
The profit came to 5 cents per share, compared with a net loss of $100.3 million, or $1.86 per share, in the first quarter of 1993. Revenues for the quarter rose 5.9 percent to $2.13 billion from $2.01 billion while expenses dropped 3.5 percent. 
In a telephone conference call with reporters, Mickey Foret, chief financial officer, said domestic routes were profitable and improved more than Pacific or trans-Atlantic flights. 
Northwest is one of the biggest carriers to Asia, where the slow Japanese economy has hurt traffic. The airline last month introduced new busi­ness-class seats with more leg 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

room to attract high-fare pay­ing customers on the long routes. 
John Dasburg, Northwest chief executive, said the effects of the new business class sec­tions are beginning to show up in April results. 
Although Northwest had expected a strong first quarter following its profitable final quarter of 1993, Dasburg said first-quarter results were better than expected. 
Northwest had surprised some analysts earlier this year by reporting fourth-quarter earnings of $10.5 million on an 11 percent increase in rev­enues, compared with a $695.2 million net loss in the final quarter of 1992. 
Northwest narrowly averted filing for bankruptcy protection earlier last year when workers agreed to $886 million in con­cessions and the airline's bankers agreed to easier debt repayment terms. 
The improvement in late 1993 had been expected to strengthen Northwest's public stock offering. However, the initial offering price was dropped from $20 to $13 per share before trading began on the NASDAQ market March 18. 
The underwriting meant nearly $250 million for 
Northwest, which was using the money to pay down debt incurred in a 1989 leveraged buyout. 
Northwest postponed a planned sale of $350 million in junk bonds on March 29, citing a flooded market for debt secu­rities and rising interest rates. 
Foret said the outlook for the bond offering has not changed. 
"We are clearly going to be patient," Foret said. "The mar­ket is in somewhat disarray at the moment. We will be patient and allow those market condi­tions to settle down." 
Northwest has raised about $675 million in new capital since the beginning of the year, Foret said. "We clearly don't have to complete this financing in the near future." 
Dasburg said the airline has made changes in its route sys­tem to become more efficient. 
During the first quarter, Northwest restructured its Memphis hub schedule and introduced new service in North American markets feed­ing its Detroit, Minneapolis and Memphis hubs, he said. 
Northwest also has added additional Detroit-Tokyo, Los Angeles-Osaka and Tokyo­Shanghai-Beijing flights to its spring schedule and eliminated its Los Angeles-Sydney route. 

Advances:  835 New highs  NEW YORK Stocks barrelled higher, pro­ WASHINGTON After declining last week,  DETROIT Automakers were scheduled  
Declines: Unchanged:  1,417 6•550 New lows  pelled by higher bond prices and a runup in technology stocks. At 2 p.m. on Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial  mortgage rates rose this week to the highest levels in nearly two years. The 30-year, fixed­rate mortgages averaged 8.49  to produce 311,514 cars and light trucks in the United States and Canada this week, down from last week's 317,568,  
Total issues:  2,802  168  average was up 37.77 points at 3,636.48.  percent, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. said  Ward's Automotive Reports said Thursday.  
Compositevolume: 431,170,380  Stocks were tightly coupled to bonds. which rose following a report of higher-than-expected  Thursday. The 30-year rate was up from last week's 8.26 percent and  This week's production is higher than the same week a year ago, in which 291,023  
1993 avg. comp. vol.: 323,714,610  unemployment claims and a weak report on economic activ­ was the highest since it was 8.54 percent the week of June  cars and light trucks were pro­duced, the trade journal said.  
AP  ity.  12, 1992.  




VIEWPOINT 
Friday, April 22, 1994 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
John Lucas  Joseph Riley  
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran  Advertising Manager ..................... , ....... Eric Lorge  
Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry  Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter  
Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser  
Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good  Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan  
Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall  Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig  
Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan  Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institmion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor /Viewpoint  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900I 8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Production  631-5303  E-Mail  Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Unix  observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students help determine NO's Catholic Character 
Christmas in April a success 
2400 students and community residents volunteer 
Board reflects the student body's concerns and opinions regarding the issue, we need student response. Only with this input can we provide the trustees with the accurate and credible information that they need to decide how to accom­modate the real desires that ND students have regarding their Catholic experience. 
To those of you who have already completed and returned your survey, we want to thank you and let you know how much we appreciate your contribution. Anyone who has not yet done so, please take the time to fill it out. Today and tomorrow will be the fmal col­lection days and we truly want to include your opinions in our final report. Again we truly thank you for helping us in this 
'only with this input 
can we provide the trustees with the accu­rate and credible infor­mation they need to decide ... the real desires that Notre Dame students have ... .' 
effort to introduce a student voice into the dialogue sur­rounding the impact which Notre Dame's Catholic charac­ter has on student life. 
CATHY MILLER Board ofTrustees Report Committee on Catholic Characrer 

Dear Editor: 
We are writing with regard to the surveys which you have recently received addressing students' perceptions of Notre Dame's Catholic Character. As 
' unfortunately though, up until this point in time, stu­dents have not been active participants in these conversations.' 
was explained in the letter accompanying the survey, the issue of Notre Dame's Catholic character and its impact on faculty hiring, student life and other related areas have sparked widespread controver­sy and debate among the administration and faculty throughout the academic school year. Unfortunately though, up until this point in time, students have not been active participants in these con­versations. 
The Board of Trustees has recognized the relative absence of a student voice and as a result, will devote a segment of its May meeting on campus to hear the Student Government Committee on Catholic Character speak about the influence Notre Dame's catholicity has on student life, both in and out of the class­room. 
In order to ensure that the Committee's report to the 
DOONESBURY 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YOU'RE BEING 

7EI£POf(.181)! F05SI/3L-Y! GOTTA !?NT THAT tut'U-frjy 7H£ RJ6HT, MAR.!<~ fiN/? OUT 8/U-'3. I 
''God gives himself to
Ya.J'I<& BeiNG AFT&R TH/73t" HeAR. raNOIU8P? 8RiffM£6· YaJ. 
men as powerful or

5.4Ge9! 
I 
perfect. It is for them to 
choose." 
I.,. I 
{ANT7l3U.. ITHA'3 
N&VA/?A 
PiA~5.., 
I 
5UDD£NLY YOUF&E:!,A 
51RANG& 5&N5AT!ON, RJ6HTr ' 

Dear Editor: 
We write to thank you stu­dents, faculty and staff of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross College, who helped make Christmas in April 1994 a great success. 
On Saturday April 16, nearly 1400 students joined with over 1000 community volunteers to make Christmas in April a real­ity fo residents of South Bend's southeast neighborhood. Everyone worked side-by-side to clean up and repair 43 homes, three churches, and two community centers. 
Work varied for each site throughout the neighborhood, as roofs, windows, doors, floors and ceilings were repaired or replaced. The homes were cleaned and painted inside and out. In some homes, furnaces, plumbing and wiring were replaced or fixed. Flowers were planted, trees were trimmed and lawns were raked. As a result of this work, the homes of elderly, disabled and low-income residents were made safer, drier, and more comfortable. 
We are also grateful for the financial support received from individual students, the Hall President's Council of Notre Dame, Student Government, and all other departments on our campuses. 
Volunteers with Christmas in April did more than repair homes-they helped to build a stronger community. People from diverse backgrounds worked together and became friends. In this way, we have all benefitted from this wonder­ful program. 
Thank you so very much for your generosity! MARTI OGREN 
Co-Chairman, Chrisrmas in April 
Committee 
PHILIP JOHNSON 
Co-Chairman, Christmas in April 
Committee 
GARY SHUMAKER 

Vice President, Christmas in April Board of 
Managers 
-Simone Weil 








ACCENT 
page 12 -\ Friday, April 22, 1994 
EAi-Ou'.s Cbbk.S up neJtttnr JttternJttive tb btner 11(-Jt.st fbbvt jbint.s'' 
By COLLEEN MOORE Accent Writer 

It's 11p.m. and your stom­ach's growling, but the dining hall is closed. You've had pizza already 3 times this week and have run out of ideas. 
Bai-Ju's Express restaurant has served the South Bend and Notre Dame area with their Chinese cuisine for almost two years. 
The restaurant is named after the restaurant's owner, a physician of internal medi­cine and a nutritionist, and is run by her son Hong Cui, a Notre Dame graduate. 
For student's convenience, the restaurant is located at 1809 South Bend Avenue, within walking distance of campus. 
Bai-Ju's owners feel that the difference between their food and other Chinese establish­ments, as well as fast-food joints, is nutrition. 
Having been a Notre Dame student himself. Hong Cui realizes that health conscious students want a "healthy alternative to the usual late night snack options." 
Bai-Ju's promises good food at a low price with easy access and efficient delivery every time. 
Cui's culinary background in health nutrition helps plan and prepare dishes low in calories and high in nutrition, without the artificial flavors. 
The menu consists of over 100 selections including Bai­Ju's famous Noodle dishes, house specials, and low calo­rie "diet dishes" that are steamed or boiled, not fried. 
The most popular items are chicken fried rice and sweet and sour chicken both listed at $3.95. Regular and larger portions at an extra cost are also available. 
To fit student's budgets most items are priced be­tween four and five dollars, none exceeding eight dollars. 
"Students have been the main contributor to the restaurant's success," Cui said. 
"Bai-Ju is there for stu­dent's convenience and wish­es to offer a friendly atmos­phere along with home­cooked food," Cui added. Extra spicy dishes may be made upon request. 
The chefs prepare each order individually, and aside from offering students healthy dishes. 
Bai-Ju's also offers delivery service to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
The quick service starts at 
4:30 p.m. with a minimum or­der of $10. Catering services are also available for parties and banquets. 
Bai-Ju is open 7 days a week, Mon.-Thurs. 11a.m. to 10 p.m.; Friday 11a.m. to llpm; and Sat. and Sun. 12 
p.m. to 10 p.m. 
The big pans are cooking up a storm of culinary delights at Bai-Ju's Express. 

Trash the Craven takes listeners to the murky swamp with ita new CD 
By ROB ADAMS Music Critic 
A lonely bass opens the first Trash the Craven CD, Brainless Thoughts. It leads into a mel­low drum beat and then imme­diately an excellent vocal se­quence begins. 
A slight echo effect brings this song, "Black Hole," to another level. It begins what seems to be Trash the Craven's trip to a thick, deep, murky swamp. 
Brainless Thoughts is forty­nine minutes long, but only has eight songs, as a tribute to Jesse Ewan's song writing abil­ity (Ewan writes most of the music and lyrics, sings, plays rhythm guitar, and plays lead guitar for the band). 
"My writing style is long, I like to write thought-provoking instrumental sections," Ewan said. 
Joining Ewan in the band are Lee Eulgen on bass, Frank Fox on drums, John Lipinski on lead and rhythm guitar, and Adam Thompson on vocals and rhythm guitar; Thompson also writes the music and lyrics. 
"John and I had been playing together for two years, but nothing had ever developed," says Ewan on the origin of Trash the Craven. "But then at the beginning of the fall semes­ter we found our drummer, Adam, and an old friend of mine, Lee, had also learned to play bass over the summer." 
The band was only together for about ten days before their first gig, a show at the Loft, in LaFortune Student Center, Nov. 5, 1993. They had pre­pared ten originals (only three of which the band still plays) and had to deal with the aspect of publicity, something they had not yet thought of-and that in­famous stick figure was born. 
"Actually, that was a last­minute thing. SUB was about to produce the posters advertis­ing our first show at the Loft and wanted a logo," says Ewan, "so I scribbled something on a piece of paper and handed it to them, We liked it though, so it stuck." 
An acoustic guitar rhythm dominates the beginning of "Here" before riffs magnify into gigantic rolling barrels of sound during the powerful chorus. Thompson 
sings -----­
e vocals turn to solemn declara­tions of loneliness. Thompson's raucous diversity with the vocal arrangements make "Here" the strongest track on the disc. 
"I cannot die when I swirlll'm safe from all my little girl/I am a part of the world/when I swirl," sings Ewan on the song "Swirl." Meanwhile, riffs collide and fall in the background reminiscent of the pattern in "Glynis," by Smashing Pumpkins. 
"It's about how you come out of bad relationships and then something else comes from out of the blue. It's a statement about how love cannot be man­ufactured and to find it is really cool," said Ewan. 
"Button" involves a clever bass pattern as it seems to dou­bleback on top of itself, but Ewan's angry vocals dominate. 
"Brainless Thoughts comes from one of the lines in 'Black Hole'," says Ewan of the CO's title, "we were going to call it Mona's Basement because Mona's this lady who lets us practice in our basement. But then we decided to call it some­thing from one of the lyrics and that line from 'Black Hole' caught my eye." 
Trash the Craven takes its 
sound into that murky swamp 
and invites all who listen; 
the disc is a true accom­
plishment even before con­
sidering that the band is 
only six months old. 

Brainless Thoughts is 
music for when someone 
wants to be completely void 
of time, place, and surround­
ings; it's like one of those 3-D pictures that doesn't look like anything until in focus ... and then it's a swamp. 
Although Ewan and Eulgen are graduating this year, the band plans to stay together and hopes to line up gigs in the Midwest. 
''I'll be in Indianapolis and Lee is going to law school in Wisconsin so we're hoping to play together in Chicago and Madison ... we'll see where this CD takes us," said Ewan. 
Trash the Craven will play today at 5 p.m. at Stonehenge. 
Rob Adams {Music Critic) and Justin Cole {Music Critic/ WVFI DJ) give their top 20 albums of the '93-'94 school year. So work hard this summer, pinch your pennies, and buy them all. 
JUSTIN'S TOP 20 

1. 
STRUMPET-Lois (K) 

2. 
POSSUM DIXON-Possum Dixon (interscope) 

3. 
EXILE IN GUYVILLE-Liz Phair (matador) 

4. 
INTO THE LABYRINTH-Dead Can Dance ( 4AD) 

5. 
LAST SPLASH-The Breeders (4AD) 

6. 
I, SWINGER-Combustible Edison (SUB-POP) 


7~ BEHIND THE DOOR I KEEP THE UNIVERSE-The Dentists (eastwest) 
8. 
MANOS-The Spinanes (SUB-POP) 

9. 
CUCKOO-Curve (charisma) 

10. 
MINE-The Glee Club (not ND one) (4AD) 11.1INTERNATIONAL HIP SWING-Various Artists (K) 


12. TRANSIENT RANDOM NOISE BURSTS WI 



Friday, April 22, 1994 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD page 13 


Woody Allen as a help in time oftrouble ,. 
Maybe It's a reflex action of 
Maybe all this should be into night of how Hamill concern over the half million interpreted as a complicated achieved sobriety with the help cigarettes I have smoked in my metaphor showing how unful­of AA. But in the penultimate life as a member of the Holy Father Robert Griffin filled the schlemiel really is, chapter, he tells us of what 
Cross Community that has been from failing to follow the path­happened one night when he making me dream of a letter Bellers Ia a Bone/j 9od way of his heart's desire. The was in a bar, drinking. Thomas Wolfe wrote at the end Catholic seminaries used to "Suddenly, hearing myself of his life, as a conclusion for have to weed out the fellow repeat lines I'd used in other his novel You Can't Go Home who was there, not because he places, I began to feel oddly Again: felt that he had a vocation, but detached. I was there, but I
comes naturally with bits and at the Swiss bank." 
"Old friend, thus we have because he was trying to please was also looking at myself
pieces of Woody Allen's irrever­Of pushing up daisies, he come to the end of the road that ence. He starts one of his says: "I don't want to achieve his mother, who prayed to have being there." At a New Year's 
her son a priest. In Woody party where everyone was
we were to go together. My movies with the story of two immortality through my work.. 
tale is finished-and so Allen's world, schlemiels have drinking, "I felt once more as if
women summering in a resort . I want to achieve it through
farewell. But before I go, I given up their dream of becom­I were shooting the scene with
hotel on the borscht circuit. not dying. It's not that I'm 
have just one more thing to tell One says to the other: "Have afraid to die. I just don't want ing comics doing gigs on the a camera from across the bar.. you: Something has spoken to Tonight show, in order to . If this was a play, I wanted a
you noticed how bad the food to be there when it happens. 
me in the night, burning the become the brain surgeons better script... I said to myself,
here is?" On the plus side, death is one of their parents wanted to raise. I'm never going to do thistapers of the waning year: The other replies, "Sure. And the few things that can be done 
something has spoken in the The greatest song hit among again. I finished my drink. It
have you noticed how small the as easily as lying down." 
night, and told me I shall die, I servings are?" Woody com­In his speech to the gradu­American males is Frank was the last one I ever had." know not where. Saying: 'To Sinatra belting out, "I did it My Now twenty years have passed
ments: Life is like that: as an ates, he said: "More than any Way." A piece in last week's since Hamill had that drink. Aslose the earth you know, for affair to remember, it's full of other time in history, mankind 
.~
greater knowing: to lose the life New Yorker mentions that John a priest who drinks, I was
grief; but does it have to be faces a crossroads. One path 
you have·, for greater life: to leads to despair and utter hope­Wayne Gacy, Chicago's notori-• moved by the way this memoir 
over so quickly?
leave the friends you loved, for ous serial killer appears to have ends.
Woody Allen tends to play the lessness. The other, to total 
greater loving, to find a land no inner being capable of When we feel the unreality of
schlemiel. Tevye. in Fiddler is extinction. Let us pray we have 
more kind than home, more dreaming dreams. "He was like our reality of our reality over­
cast as a schlemiel: as a poor the wisdom to choose correct­
large than earth-Whereon the an actor who had created a role taking us, we're coming close to 
milkman, his cow goes dry. He ly."
pillars of this earth are found­and polished it so carefully he the Socratic insight that says
has five daughters in need of He tells us of a time when he 
ed, toward which the con­had become the role." Gacy's the unexamined life is not
dowries; the first of them to was drowning, going down for 
science of the world is tend­favorite song, we learned, was worth living.
marry chooses the impover­the third time and thoughts of 
ing-a wind is rising, and the "Send in the Clowns." Wouldn't 4,000 year's a man who was
ished instead of the rich butch­his past life start flashing
rivers flow."' it have been grotesque to find tired of life said: "Death is in
er. Still, Tevye doesn't lose before his eyes. Suddenly, he 
After Kennedy's death in out that Gacy is included among my sight today/ As when a man
faith in the Master of the noticed that the flashbacks he 
1963, I committed to memory the over-achievers who secretly desires to see home/ When he
Universe Who could have made was having -of going to the 
want "I did it My Way," sung or has spent many years in captiv­
the sonnet of Keats, "When I him wealthy, even when his old watering hole with a girl in 
have fears that I may cease to played at their funerals? ity." I haven't yet reached the
shtetl is burned by the gingham, to drink sasparilla 
For your summer reading, I point where I'm tired of life, butbe/ Before my pen has glean'd Cossacks. Because he stays from the country store with the 
by teeming brain... " The recommend A Drinking Life, the some day I may be, and I won­
sweet-tempered, Tevye of the cracker barrels-were not 
country was so deeply affected sorrows is indestructible. from his life as a Jewish men­late-breaking memoir by the der what the view will be like by the assassination in Dallas Woody Allen's schlemiel lacks a sch who grew up in New York, New York journalist, Peter when I get there. I have miles 
that many of us were groping Hamill. As a religious dropout, to go before I sleep, and
religious faith, but he survives but from somebody else's life. 
through graveyard poetry. As he scarcely has a kind thing to promises to keep. Perhaps my
on one-liners: "Not only is there To realize that the life he is 
Yeats wrote of an Irish airman, say about the Catholic Church. dreams, which have been called
no God, but try getting a reviewing as it passes before "What made us dream that he As a knockabout in the bad­God's other language, are
plumber on the weekend. If He him in hindsight comes from 
could comb grey hair?" lands of Brooklyn, Manhattan, telling me that all this could
exists, "He's basically an under­the memory bank of a goy. It is 
Nearer to the hour of the sun­and other ports of call, the change in the twinkling of an
achiever. If only He would give the kind of humiliation that 
set and evening star, I find that me some clear sign! Like mak­could only happen to a ways in which he did it his way eye. Only.time can tell. 
it's not inappropriate to bluff were often earthy; however, the
ing a large deposit in my name schlemiel. 
my way through the fear that book isn't a long day's journey 
"GAMES OF THE CENTURY" ........ CHAMPIONS WIN THEM! 


''Students, don't leave campus without it!'' 
-
, 
The ObseiVer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April22, 1994 

CARPOOL west toll rd. Portage to  SELLING STEREOS IS A LOT OF  I need 2 grad. tickets. If you have  WANTED: MAAR, JOYCE,  
NOTICES  N.D. starting 6/1. 259-3023  FUN!! Part time; 20-30 hr. weekly  extra please call -Anne x3358  Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP  ROURKE to form campus band for 94-95 school year. Obvious focus  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  Min.: $5.00 an hour pius 3% com­ Help!II Need extra grad. tix for  LaFortune Student Center  on Smiths/other lndie covers and  
$$ FOR BOOKS @ PANDORA'S  -Earn up to  mission.  family desperately!! Call Sean  Phone 631-COPY  original tracks, too. Respond by  
everyday but sunday until 5:30pm  $8,000+ in two months. Room &  Full time; 5 days a week  @273-3920.  post: 305 Morrissey.  
233-2342 ND ave & Howard  Board! Transportation! Male or  5% commission against draw.  
Female. No experience necessary!  Apply in person at;  HELP! I I need extra grad. tix  "HI",  WANTED: A roommate who doesn't  
Attention graduating seniors whose  Call (206)545-4155 ext A5584  Alltronics  call PIER 273-4909  Have you been sitting on a couch  think he's Morrissey. Respond by  
parent and grandparent are Notre  3915 Grape Rd.  without a cup waiting for somebody  mail: 305 Morrissey.  
Dame alums: The Notre Dame  SUMMER HELP IN SOUTH BEND.  Mishawaka  HEY SENIORS!! Have extra grad  at Lafayette? Well hell,  
Publications office needs to take  ND or SMC student to care for 3  tix?? We need 6 in total. Please  don't let things get out of hand.  @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  
photos of multigenerational alum  children June 13 -Aug 5, Mon lhru  TWIN BED FOR SALE  help!! Chris x1815 Liz x1912  Come see me and I'll corrupt ya.  ANNOUNCING:  
family members during  Fri. Must have good references and  Call Tracy 273-6401  For these are the days to become  
Commencement weekend. The  love kids. Non smoker. Call7-10pm  I need graduation tickets ...  addicted to softlips, even if you  KYLE KUSEK'S  
photos are to be used in an upcom­ 708-524-9386  please call Joe@ 237-0750  can't drink like a normal human.  MCATBASH  
ing University publication. Please  FURNITURE FOR SALE ­ we'll talk  Ya know, some parrots talk, but  
call Marilyn or Paul al631-5337. ILOST & FOUND I  Need help w/ summer rent? 3 students need housing 6/15-7/25 Call Kristin @4942  CALL 273-6032. BAR for sale. 8 ft. long, finished oak wood. Perfect for off-campus  PERSONAL  gangstas don't dance in the real world. I'm gonna miss ya, Captive. Love, Josie P.S. Can you say road trip? ...  Meet at CJ's after the big test and share war stories about your afternoon.  
apt I house. 4 stools included.  ... TEXAS  Don't know what to wear?  
LOST-my precious gold loop ear­ $750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­ Make offer. Call Mick, 277-4825.  .,. ............KATHARSIS************  Call Joe Marko.  
ring somewhere between Lewis &  mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­ APRIL 15&16 at CHEERS on 31 in  EUROPE ONLY $229, NY $79  @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  
Cushing, or Cushing & 02, or 02 &  0219  83 Escort, 76K mi. New tires, batt.,  Roseland. APRIL 29 at Midway  AIRHITCH 1-800-326-2009 Calf for  
Lewis on Sat nile (4/16). SENTI­ exh. Good, dependable transport.  Tavern (MARTHA'S). DON'T miss  program descriptions!  There is no way I'm painting the  
MENTAL VALUE-PLEASE  Want to buy 386 or 486 computer &  $850.277-4339.  out. Fun starts at10.For more  ceiling without you Graceffa!  
RETURN ASAP. x3766.  peripherals. Can wait until after  information on gigs and parties  I'm living in D.C. this summer and  
--thanks  exams. Bob or Bill 236-8334.  TWIN BED FOR SALE PRICE NEGOTIABLE  call237-9702. Ask for LENNY. .............KATHARSIS*-*..*******  am in need of an APARTMENT and ROOMMATES. If interested call  By the way, Kyle is buying!!  
CASH REWARD!  CALL LEAH AT 273-3928  Kate at X3415.  Thanks for your help Kristen.  
'92 alum looking to recover "losr  SUMMER NANNY for ND family on  You're a lifesaver! The photos  
cellular phone missing from car  Chicago N. Shore. Live-in/out. End  Furniture for Sale  Adopt -Happily married couple  turned out well!  
parked behind Grace Hall late Sat.  MAY-AUG. Exper w/ newborn &tod­ couch, twin bed, dresser & more  wants to give your newborn love &  J U N 0 R S  
night. Call291-3018 ask for Roy  dler a plus. lnclds NJ beach vaca­ Free Summer Storage  security while easing your decision.  
tion w/ family. call 708-433-1628  call4-4463  Expenses paid. Jean & Steve 1­ U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  I'm going to the draft. I'm going to  
LOST:  800-362-8856  OF RESUME AND DISK  the draft. Chris M. is going to the  
need graduation tickets bad  Great Couch ill  N TO CAREER & PLACE­ draft. Chis M. is going to the draft.  
Green Columbia Jacket (outer  call Harry 233-5130  Low Price! Must Sell! Best Offerl  ADOPTION -Let us raise your baby  MENT SERVICES FOR  
shell) prob in SOH. Please help!  Navy Blue and Very Sleepable.  as you would -with love, security  RESUME BOOKS NOW!  
call Brian at x1130  ---------Living  Call x1143  and smiles. Please call Conni and  Hey Ricker. I'm going to Duff  
in MADISON this summer?  Mark 1-800-392-0618  0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  Gardens.  
LOST!!  Looking for roommate (s) to share  Three single lofts, getting bunks so  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  
Gold chain with celtic cross by  sublet Cybelle X2949  must sell. $40 apiece OBO. One  J U N 0 R S  R  Tom B. rides the L-Train each day  
Stepan Courts week of 4/11. Call  year old, built by carpentar Dad!!  and enjoys the bumpy part.  
Rob at4-2159.  FOR RENT  call x11 01 ask for Sean  U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY OF RESUME AND DISK  s  Hey Beavis  
HELP!! I lost my wallet on 4/20.  Need a reliable car?  N TO CAREER & PLACE­ 
My LIFE (ID, license, fake, credit  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  '85 black Chrysler Laser, AIC,  MENT SERVICES FOR  hey fall Londoners: good luck on  Mike R. I am thinking of you  
card, etc.) was in that wallet.  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  AM/FM Cassette, Runs Great.  RESUME BOOKS NOW!  the MCAT!!  love always,  
Please return it if found -call Tim @  CAMPUS. 272-0615  Price negotiable. Call Vic @ 273­ Georgina Bullard  
x1983. HELP!!  6117  0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  " ... yeah, that's how Houdini died.  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  Some guy just came up and  Top Five Reasons Rebel Alliance  
ND/SMC EVENTS  College Park Condos 2BR, 2 Bath,  R  punched him in the stomach while  will win BOOKSTORE.  
Anyone who attended the  (219)291-7153  w/ appliances $59,900. Send info to  he wasn'tlooking."  5. Jeff Goddard is willing to put in  
SIEGFRIED SYR on Saturday:  P.O. Box 4075, South Bend, IN  s  as much effort as he does when hit­ 
Someone mistook my camera for  COLLEGE PARK  46634  I'm living in Chicago this summer  ting on 3/4ths of South Quad.  
his/hers. II you have it (and pic­ CONDOMINIUMS  and need an APARTMENT and  4. Overnight, Joe Bergan has been  
tures of people you don't kno~  -1/4 mile from library  1989 Ford Bronco II 4wd  FRIENDLY WASHINGTONIAN  ROOMMATES. If interested, call  shrunk to his pre-cheeseburger  
PLEASE call 634-4823.  -New appliances  5-speed. Remaining ESP warranty.  needs ride home after Senior  Tim at 273-5963  days.  
$$$$$$$$BIG REWARD$$$$$$$$  -2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms  Excell. cond. $6500  Week. Will share expenses and  3. Bryan Corbett gets results,  
-Washer & Dryer units  call Bryan-4-1890  driving. Call x4293  Scrappy -man of tact!  dammit.  
-Large closets  2. Teams are intimidated by the fact  
Lost:  -Covered parking  For Sale:  DID YOU KNOW the fast Observer  the scrabbling the letters in the  
Watch.  -Security System  Blue sectional couch and  is 4/27? It is not too early to place  Am I still a GOOD KID??  team's name spells Lebler Lanialec.  
Brown corded leather band.  -Large balconies  kitchen table with 5 chairs.  your farewell cfassifieds to seniors  1. God thinks they are hip-funky.  
Compass housing.  Units now available­ Excellent condition call 282­ & your friends. You can type in  
If found call 4-3233 and ask for  $660 per month ..... Going Quickly!!  2072.  your ad now until 4/26 between  HELP!! Can you help me? I lost  I'm in the corner.  
Dav.  ••••••••cALL: 272-0691••••..••••  Bam to 3pm Mon-Fri. There will  my wallet on 4/20. My LIFE (ID,  
Shop Early for next year's  also be a graduation Observer on  license, fake, credit card, etc.) was  I want you to want me ...  
LOST -Gold rose brooch on 4/15 in  NEEDED:  furnishings.  5/13. Deadline is 5/12. We are on  in that wallet. Please return it if  
or outside of Sacred Heart Church.  people to sublease a Turtle Creek  the 3rd floor in LaFortune.  found-call Tim@ x1983. HELP!!  Erin, you know I'm the Sumo queen  
Sentimental value. REWARD! Call  Townhouse for the summer  
1-6411.  Please call Amy or Krista x2731  83 T-bird Turbo Coupe  -ST. ED'S CHARITY CARNIVAL­ TOP NINE -SOPH FORMAL '94  Turt and Bic-­ 
AIC Sunrf Pwr everythg  APRIL 21/22  no more gun fights over lunch, ok?  
LOST: LADY'S BLACK LEATHER  SUMMER STORAGE  Best offer 634-4937  NOON-6PM  1. Are my boo-s shaped funny?  
PURSE WITH GOLD TRIM ON  FIELDHOUSE MALL  2. French is a lot of tongue.  Suzy, Katie, Belle, Anne, Taryn ...  
SATURDAY NIGHT AT WASHING­ STILL NEED SUMMER STORAGE  For Sale: U-shaped coach, tan  3. I'm drinking, so is my face red  sorry, brain lapse  
TON HALL.  SPACE?!? SECURE SPACE IN  chair, entertainment center, gas  Dunk a celebrity!!  yet?  
REWARD.  PRIVATE HOME.  grill, oak table and chairs, cordless  WIN GA'S for NEXT YEAR'S  4. Tell me about the Cubs game,  Hope your test went well, LC  
287-0918  phone, lamp and more. Perfect for  MICHIGAN GAME and OTHER  for the 100th time.  take care of yourself  
CALL 631-6557.  OC living. Call 273-6553.  COOL STUFF in the RAFFLE II  5. Top gun ... fet's just watch the vol­ 
For Rent: ONE ROOMMATE off  For Sale: brand new bed and oak  BE CHARITABLE!!!  leyball scene!  
campus. Please don't make me live  desk.  6. A monkey, an elephant and a  No using sign language for immoral  
Lost-Tl81 Calculator  in my car. Call Chris 288-5282.  Call 273-3920 and ask for Keith.  -ST. ED'S CHARITY CARNIVAL- cow... is there some significance  purposes!!!  
Lost in Fitzpatrick on Monday  behind those?  
night. If found , please call  7. That's the RA's room!!  Hockey!!!!!  
Vince at x1871. Reward.  Subleaser needed!  1991 lsuzu Trooper II (silver)  Antostal Trivia  8. 3 beers=1 rose???  
Coli. Park Apt. available for sum­ 30K; 4WD; AM/FM-Cass.; AIC  1) How many inches of snow fell  9. Yes DB, she does !i'XISTII  Hey Bullard. Since when did you  
WANTED  mer. $220/mo. Call 273-6117  excellent condition!! MUST SELL!!!  this year at ND? 2) What were the first two guy's  I have an internship near Columbia,  start getting your mail sent to Augusta.  
Summer break is just around the  $9400 call232-4736  dorms converted to girl's dorms at  Maryland this summer. Please call  
corner! Call Kelly or Judie at 291­ ND? Clue: One is on South Quad  Leah if you know of a room/apart­ Once upon a time there was a boy  
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up  1414 to reserve a Hertz Penske  '91 Red Mere Capri Convertible  and the other is on God Quad.  ment to rent or if you need a room­ named Tom B. from Cincinnati and  
to $2000+/mo. on cruise ships or  truck to make your move home eas­ 34K, AM/FM Cassette, AC, Power  3) In what dorm and what year did  mate. Call @ 284-5115  he liked donuts very much. He ate  
land-tour companies. World travel.  ier.  Locks, $8500. Call 233-5773.  the first SYR occur? Clue: Dorm is  so many donuts that people started  
Summer & full-time employment  only a stone's throw away from the  to calf him Glazed. But he liked that  
available. No exp necessary. For  For Rent -Diamond Lake Duplex  LOFT & FRIDGE FOR SALE!!  Bookstore.  Lisa, Cyndi, Jeannine, Kathleen,  very much and would simply  
info call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584  Available Sept.-May  CALL LIZ X1912 with b.o.  4) What is the total number of full  Tina and others: good luck this  respond.. ."Mmmmmmmmm  
All new -furnished.  time North Dining hall and South  weekend. I can't wait to watch!  glazed.'  
WANTED: People interested in  June thru August weekly rental  87 Red Camaro lt, VB, loaded, 45k  Dining Half employees? Boy a  
participating in a Circle K club  Must see -beautiful view.  miles, 1 owner, immaculate. $6700.  Grab-n-Go sounds good now!  The baby Jesus never lied.  
@ND. Officers and members need­ Call1-616-445-8492 on Sundays  684-0957  5) In what year was the first  Shannon -Have a BERRY happy  
ed. If interested contact Kim at  only. 21636 Howell Dr.  Antostal held?  22 birthday. We hope you get a  Anything this boring has to be edu­ 
284-5082.  Cassopolis, Ml  DOUBLE LOFT $75  6) When was the first game played  huge gilt wrapped package of  cational.  
CALL x2485  at Rockne Memorial Stadium and  Daddy Meat and Macaroni and  
who was it against? Clue: song ­ cheese with plenty o'garlic. Love  Your always taking someone else's  
SUMMER/PERMANENT FULL  HOME BASED BED/BREAKFAST  Must Sell Now 11!!1!!1  "In the __, you can sail the  Coco and 'Nilla  side: Flanders, the water depart­ 
TIME $300/WEEK. WORK FOR  ALLIANCE offers local family com­ 2 Cerwin-Vega 300 SE Speakers.  seven seas."  ment, God.  
ENVIRONMENTAL AND CON­ fort for all ND activities.  $200 Firm Call Stan x-4075  First 5 people with all correct  Thanks for a great birthday you  
SUMER RIGHTS. WK HAS  (219) 271-0989, 24-hr. answering  answers get and Antostal T-shirt.  guys. Love Shannon  What if I undo this button? What if I  
1:30-10:30 M-F. FOR INTERVIEW CALL 232-7905  machine.  TICKETS  Next 10 people with all correct answers get an Antostal cup.  Refuse to be responsible  talk like this?  
2 BDRM. APT. NEAR ND.  Return entries to the LaFortune  Try lt. It's like kissing a peanut.  
On and off campus newspaper car­ $430/mo. + UTIL. NICE QUIET  For Sale: 2 Phil Collins tix  Information Desk by 5pm today.  Build a fort w/ blankets  
riers, branch managers, sales per­ AREA. TAKE OVER LEASE FROM  7/20/94 Rosemont Horizon  Good luck\  
sonnel needed for fall 94 semester.  6/1/94.  Sell at face valuell 4-2671  Joy--l'm sorry that I'm never home  What are the odds of me getting  
Contact City News Service Inc.,  273-6187 or 631-5445.  SMEGMARIFF­ but I'll make it up.  sick on a Saturday? A million to  
232-3205 or 288-9361 for informa­ I need 2 graduation tickets. My  IC!ff!ff!!ff!fflflfffflffllflllfff  one.  
tion or application.  Turtle Creek Townhouse available  grandparents are coming to ND  
tor summer. Call 273-5883 for more  from LA for the first time. Call Elisa  I'm gonna VOMITII  If you survive Antostal, come see  
information.  at 272-8563.  "Facing Julia" an original play by  Phillip can cut hair  
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER  SABOR LATINO  Shannon Schwarz April 28-30 in  
..  EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­ FOR SALE  I need extra graduation tickets­please call Brian at 4-4204  Tonight 10:30 pm, Keenan  Saint Mary's Little Theatre. Performance at 8 pm.  To get to Duff Gardens I would ride with Satan himself.  
NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC.  
MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ Help! I need graduation tickets.  SABOR LATINO  
ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL  Airline lix Fe.  Please call Tracy-2377  Ice cream condiment preservation  Hercules! the cyclops tore my dress  
OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN­ RT from S Bend to All. $140.  And as she realized he truly was  society sincerely suggests ...  
TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398  Good til Aug 94. 271-7280. Lve  Help! I need graduation tickets.  the one, he slipped away along with  
ext A29.  msg.  Please call Mike-1651  the setting sun­ "Save a nut, eat a squirrel. •  Its 5:00 and we're finally outta here!  


Friday, April 22, 1994 The Observer •FOOTBALL page 15 
Irish have future in NFL 

~ Interested in the


I Debate Team? 
~ Come to our Demonstration Debate ~ and organizational meeting 
~ Tuesday, April26, 1994 
~ 7:00pm 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
It's the National Football League's candy store-a place full of sweets with everybody wanting more. 
The 1994 NFL Draft opens Sunday in New York with 14 Notre Dame players eligible, and all hoping that some team sees them as the cure for a sweet tooth. 
This year's selection process won't have as much an Irish flavor as 1993. Last year, six Notre Dame players were se­lected in the first two rounds, four taken after the first 20 picks. 
Irish players Bryant Young, Aaron Taylor, Lake Dawson and Jeff Burris should hear their names called before the start of round three. Young and Taylor are top ten selections, whereas Burris and Dawson are mid to late second round picks. 
Burris is the top-rated safety and Taylor is considered the best offensive line prospect. Ohio State's Dan Wilkinson is 
@] 
I ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ Notre Dame Room of LaFortune ~ ~ 2ndFloor ~ 
@] @] 
the top defensive tackle, grad­ing out much higher than Young. Dawson is the sixth­rated receiver. Colorado's Charles Johnson is tops at the position, followed by USC's Johnnie Morton, San Diego State product Darnay Scott, David Palmer of Alabama and Michigan's Derrick Alexander. 
Seven other Irish players should be selected with number possibly jumping to nine if a few Notre Dame players slide into the late rounds. 
A look at the Irish players and their prospects: 
Aaron Taylor: Team's say Taylor is a better finisher than Willie Roaf, the top offensive lineman in the 1993 Draft and a unanimous all-rookie pick. Taylor favors a return to California and the Rams may oblige him with the fifth pick. Arizona's Buddy Ryan. has openly praised Taylor and will grab him if he falls to No. 10. 
Bryant Young: Seattle loves Young with the No. 8 pick and the vision of pairing him with Cortez Kennedy. His stock de­pends on Sam Adams. If teams lean towards the Texas A&M lineman, Young may slip a few slots. Indianapolis may take him No. 7 in case Steve Emt­man can't recover from knee surgery. 
Jeff Burris: A number of teams like Burris' versatility and leadership. The former Irish captain played cornerback and both safety slots during his career. Team's rarely spend a top pick on a player who lacks eye catching computer num­bers, so Burris falls a bit. Look for Cleveland (No. 39) or Min­nesota (No. 43) to nab Burris. 
Lake Dawson: A slow 40 
time at the scouting combine 
and a good crop of wideouts 
pushes Dawson down a round. 
There were early rumors that 
New Orleans like Dawson with 
the 14th pick put it looks more 
like Chicago picking No. 38 or 
the Saints at No. 48. 
Tim Ruddy: The tough Irish 
center should be off the board by the end of round three. Teams wonder about his height and ability to hold weight, but his strength and tenacity make him a nice fit for any team. 
Willie Clark: Although he didn't even start in 1993 teams are drooling over his speed and agility. The hope with the Irish safety is that a solid secondary coach will mold Clark's raw skills. He projects in the fourth or fifth rounds. 
Jim Flanigan: The stock of Flanigan has risen or fallen pending on who you talk with. Some see him as a Chris Zorich type, who's hard work will be a healthy addition to a defensive front. Other teams see Flani­gan's lack of size a downfall. Like Clark his prospects are in the fourth to fifth rounds. 
John Covington: Teams like the athletic safety's ability but feel he will need a year or two to learn the intricacies of cover­age at the pro level. The sixth round is likely for Covington. 
Todd Norman: A super slow 
5.6 time at the Scouting Com­bine hurt the big offensive tack­le. Several teams still like his size and are willing to take a chance in the sixth round. 
Irish players Greg Lane, Clint Johnson, Pete Bereich and Dean Lytle are all seen as free agent types by most teams. Lytle's speed and size give him a chance of fitting in the late rounds, but his inability to find a niche at Notre Dame raises some questions. Some teams feel he could play tight end at the pros, making an adjustment much like Ethan Horton. 
Johnson may get selected be­cause of his blazing speed and ability as a return man. Berei­ch's stock has dropped because of his lack of speed, but a thin crop of inside Jinebackers leaves the door open. Lane will have to prove his worth in training camp as a free agent. 
ESPN will televise Sunday's two opening rounds at 2 pm. The final five rounds will be carried by ESPN2 on Monday beginning at 1 pm. 





SPRING HAT FLING! 
The largest selection ofND hats in the UNIVERSE! 
SORINROOM 
in the LaFortune Student Center 
Two Days Only! 
Friday, April 22 
llam to 7pm 

Saturday, April 23 
9am to 8pm 


------------~--------------~~------~ -~ -~-­
-

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 22, 1994 



Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
out of its rhythm. Surprisingly, though, Ebony was the team thrown off by a scrappy C.C.E squad that refused to be intimi­dated and took the game at the taller, more athletic Ebony. 
The relentless pressure and fouling tactics of C.C.E caused the desired effect, as Ebony center Oliver Gibson snapped at crucial points during the game. 
Gibson took exception to the constant harassment and reaching of C.C.E, once slap­ping one of his opponents and another time throwing the ball after a stoppage in play, both times earning a costly techni­cal. After the game ended, Gib­son also got into a shouting match with one of the Zi­olkowski brothers from C.C.E. 
"Oliver is a hothead," said Ebony's Conrad James. "They knew how to get him out of his game and get the technicals." 
"We understood each of their games and how to upset them," explained C.C.E's Keith Zi­olkowski. "Nothing happened after the game that wasn't go­ing on during the game." 
"We realize what's on the court stays on the court, and if they understand that every­thing's fine," Ziolkowski said. "Conrad called after the game to apologize, and I thought that was a really class move." 
Gibson's hysterics were main­ly a result of the full court pres­sure applied by C.C.E which frustrated the usually attacking Ebony squad. With the twins Keith and Brian Ziolkowski at the top of the 2-2-1, C.C.E ran off a string of steals and layups in the second half to improve upon their 11-5 halftime lead. 
"We  didn't think they'd  
expect  a  press,"  said  
Ziolkowski.  

Ebony rallied behind the shooting of Owen Smith, who nailed three straight jumpers from 15-feet, and the penetra­tion of guard Martin Som­merville, who scored two easy baskets and drew a charge to keep Ebony close. 
However, the free throw shooting would prove to be Ebony's Achilles' heel, as C.C.E's fouling tactics paid off when Ebony could not convert on numerous trips to the char­ity stripe. 
C.C.E's opponent in the Elite Eight will be Showtime, guar­anteeing a Cinderella in the Final Four. 
Showtime, a group of over­looked sophomores from Stan-

London  $275*  
Paris  $293*  
Frankfurt  $293*  
Rome  $355*  
Athens  $355*  

'fares 1n en wey ~an ChKago based on roondlrip P\1· ctosc.llestr'ctloos app~ taxts <re rctirclt.ded and !orcs 1n 5lbj<ct 1D cJwee. C.II b 00...v.oldwide destinations. 

Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearb:lm St., 2nd flO()( 
Chicago, 1160610 

311·951·0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels magazine 

ford Hall, proved that you don't need a marquis name to suc­ceed at Bookstore, out-playing the more celebrated Jon Ross and Ben Foos. 
Led by a balanced three guard attack, Showtime jump shooters Travis Brown, Jason Hanley, and Jeff Enes caught fire in the first half, coming off screens to rain down jumpers. Enes was especially effective in the first half, beating his man off the dribble to either shoot his patented jumper or dish to a cutting teammate. 
"The key today was patience," stated Brown. "We took good shots and didn't turn it over." 
The second half belonged to Bob Baxter. When Sudden Death tightened its defensive pressure, the 6-6 forward took Ross outside, pouring in five 15-foot jumpers. 
"Bob was a man on a mission tonight," said Brown. "We tried to wear down Ross with picks to free Bob." 
Needing only one bucket to seal the victory, Showtime re­ceived an added boost as the few hundred partisan fans rose to their feet. A pretty feed from Enes to Hanley for a runner in the lane sealed the upset. 
1994 BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL CHAl\IPIONSHIP 



---~---~------~-----~---------~--------~~--~­
The road to Stepan runs through Bookstore 
By TIM SEYMOUR AND DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writers 
No. 1 HEADBANGERS vs. No. 8 REBEL ALLIANCE 
Head Commissioner Andy Sinn calls this game the "Battle of the Bulge." Headbangers fea-tures Bobby Taylor, Brian Hamilton, and Oscar McBride, but Alliance counters with Pat Keaney, Bryan Corbett and Brian McCarthy. This game will be won in the paint. 


"We know it will be a tough game," said Headbanger player Brian Hamilton. "They like to press and create some trouble, but we have some surprises." 
Alliance presents the first real matchup problems for Headbangers. Keaney's size and Corbett's ability to bang the boards will counter McBride and Hamilton. 
"It will be a little different game for us," said Joe Bergan, a member of Alliance. "They're bigger and quicker, so we must attack their press." 
Bobby Taylor's ability to penetrate the lane and wipe the offensive glass will put pressure on Alliance guards Jeff Goddard and McCarthy. 
"There's a lot more pressure on Headbangers as the number one seed," said Sinn. "They're not invincible." 
No.2 NBT vs No.7 VITO'S BARBER'S SHOP 
When these two teams come up in conversation, smart bas­ketball becomes the topic. 
NBT, led by Chris "Hoosier" Winningham, relies on an in­side game featuring last year's Bookstore MVP Eric Jones. Brad Fish and Joe Haigh can 


Oriental Market 
205 E Jefferson, Mishawaka 255-4615 
Fancy A•s•i•a•n Food 
~and:Jim 

'1briety of ~le ~and ~ Cookies ,:;m sorts ofCorulimmt 
7.tas and c~ 


Fresh vegetable every Wednesday 
cool Korean Deli Everyday warm Korean Deli every Saturday ' 
THE SAINT MARY'S COU£GE DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIOO, DANCE &THEATRE PRESENTS 

UGHTING DESIGN BY SHAUN LWELLEN ADDITIONAL CHOREOORAPHY BY FACULTY AND STUDENTS FRIDAY-SATURDAY, APRIL 22-23, 8P.M. ·SUNDAY, APRIL 24, 2:30P.M. 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $6 ADULTS •$4 SENIOR CITIZENS •$3 CAMPUS COMMUNITIES •$2 STUDENTS 00 SAlHTTHE SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE, LOCATED IN O'LAUGHUN, 9-5 t.IOO.·FRI. DISCOVER, V1SA, MASTERCARD ORDERS AT 219/284·4626. 


pull from the outside, while Doug Scholer takes care of the dirty work around the glass. 
"Every game NBT plays, it seems like someone new steps up," said Sinn. "Nobody has been able to stop Jones inside yet." 
"We're gonna play the same style no matter what," said Haigh. "It's up to whoever we're playing to try to stop us." 
Vito's relies on smart passing, outside shooting and experi­ence. Tom Sear, Joe Godin and Tom Kelly can all hit from the outside, while Greg Midgett po­lices the inside. Greg Burstein dictates the tempo. 
"We're the underdogs, but we're pretty confident," said Burstein. "We like to kick it around the outside and look for the open jumper." 
No. 3 MAJESTIC SILVER­BACKS vs. No.6 DOS KLOSKAS 
This game has some intrigu­ing individual matchups, but Majestic's interchangeable parts and pressing defense will cause problems for Dos Kloskas. 
Brooks Boyer, Ben O'Rourke, 


A01orosa 
continued from page 24 
still haven't decided if that's enough money considering the abuse I took. 
Anyway, when the Round of 64 started on Tuesday night, I went down to Stepan to watch basketball and write about what happened. Before I knew it, I had the black and white striped shirt on and I had a whistle in my hand. 
For the next hour, Hot Grits A Flyin' and Belmont Beverage battled each other tooth and nail all over the court. The players talked smack to one an­other and a large amount of criticism was directed my way. 
I enjoyed officiating, but I hated the crowd. It's fine to go and Adam Ward key Majestic's attack from the outside while Matt Fitz uses his court savvy in all aspects. Majestic can play any style, but prefers to use its press for easy buckets. 
"We're happy with where we are," said Ward. "If we keep playing tough 'D' we can com­pete with anybody. You never know, because strange things can happen." 
The young Kloskas squad counters Majestic's size with Pete Coleman and Bert Berry's inside ability while Jeff and Mike Kloska are money from the outside. Dan Fannon, the ultimate utility player, hustles all over the court. 
"It will be a real hard fought game," said Coleman. "There are no secrets because we've played against all of them." 
No. 12 SHOWTIME vs. No. 13C.C.E. 
This matchup guarantees that a sleeper will take the role of party crasher at the Final Four, as two explosive and fundamentally sound sopho­more teams duel for the final spot. 
Unlike the other games, nei­
ther of these squads features a out to cheer on friends, but when a person makes a referee the focal point, they're missing the point of competition. 
I heard some interesting things from the crowd as the game wore on into overtime. Besides the obvious jeers about being blind and why I didn't use my whistle more often, I heard some comments about my clothes, my looks and the way I ran. One thing that I re­member somebody yelling was, "Where did they find you? Go back to the library." 
At one point, after I had sig­
naled Hot Grits ball, a player 
from Belmont came down the 
court and stood next to me 
while his team operated on of­
fense. The player mentioned 
that he was a psychology major 
and he could help me out with 
my subconscious feelings 
is really 
21! 

Happ~ Birthda~! 
Mom, Dad, Trey, Noel, and Paul 

marquis player, but each is solid at every position. "This may be the best matchup of the day," stated Sinn. "Showtime plays basic basketball, setting screens and shooting well, while C.C.E might have the mental attitude edge." 
Guard Jeff Enes keys this team, as his penetration opens the outside for backcourt mates Travis Brown and Jason Hanley. The ability of these three to handle C.C.E's ag­gressive press will be essential. They must also receive help getting the ball up the court from big men Bob Baxter and Matt Coles. 
"When Showtime is shooting well, they are tough to beat," noted Sinn. "However, C.C.E will 'D' them up better than they've seen." 
C.C.E relies on creating of­fense from defense. The twin trap of Brian and Keith Ziolkowski causes problems at the top of the press, while Derek Gustafson roams the middle looking for steals. . 
The frontcourt of Steve Madden and Dan Orie is small compared Showtime's, but they were effective against Ebony. 
against his team. He missed the whole sequence to tell me that I needed psychological help. I couldn't help but smile at that comment. 
It's only a basketball game, and just because a call doesn't favor your team doesn't mean the referee is out to get you or anybody else. 
One of the most important things a referee must avoid is getting intimidated. Explaining calls to players on a consistent basis can make things worse for officials too. Another faux pas for refs is talking to the crowd. There's no reason to start jawing with a fan when there is a basketball game in progress. 
When the Sweet 16 started, I 
retired the black and white 
stripes and returned to my role 
as a reporter. While watching 
the games yesterday, I felt a 
soft spot in my heart for the 
referees because I noticed that 
the fans and players were more 
intent on focusing on their 
calls. The criticism of the refs 
ran rampant, but anybody who 
thinks they lost a game yester­
day because of an official's call 
needs to relax a lot. 
Before heckling a referee this weekend as Bookstore Basketball XXIII comes to a close, think about how you would call a game ill front of a big crowd consisting of your peers. Even though the final four will be officiated by Indiana high school referees, I'm sure they have feelings too. 

-



DOOLEY ROOM 
8:00PM 


The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 22, 1994
18 

... 
Irish power by Crusaders 
ByJENNY MARTEN hard." give Notre Dame a ·13-0 lead. Senior Sports Writer Three consecutive singles The Crusaders avoided a from Matt Haas, Dennis shutout in the top of the sev­
It looked like a team might Twombley and Greg Layson enth when Irish pitcher Rich actually challenge the powerful added another run when Haas Sauget hit the first two batters. Notre Dame baseball team-for slid under the tag at home. A fielder's choice put runners an inning. Scott Sollman, back in the on the corners for Jeff Conrad. 
The Irish returned to form lineup after missing three Conrad hit a grounder down with 10 runs in the bottom of games with a knee infection, the third base line which Birk the second inning en route to a slapped a two-run triple into snagged with a diving catch. He 15-1 victory over Valparaiso the right field corner and then got Conrad at first for the sec­last night at Eck Stadium. came home on a wild pitch. ond out, but Ryan Moratti 
While Notre Dame (23-8) got Sollman's triple was the end for scored easily. hits from just about everybody, Valparaiso starter Bryan Kru­In the eighth, Notre Dame the Crusaders were lacking in elle. scored two more runs on sacri­offensive output with only two His replacement, Jeff Doll, fice flies from Randall Brooks hits in the game. didn't fare much better. He and Fuentes to raise the Irish 
Ryan Topham broke the walked Robbie Kent, Robby lead to 15-1. scoreless tie with his fifth home Birk and Topham to load the Freshman Darin Schmalz run of the year, a three-run bases. Kent came home on a started the game and pitched blast just inside the right field wild pitch, and Birk and four shutout innings allowing foul pole. It was the second Topham both crossed the plate only two hits while striking out time this week that the right­when Javier Fuentes singled five and walking two. fielder had homered in his first into left field. Four other Irish pitchers, at bat in a game. The Irish picked up three Gregg Henebry, Sauget, Paul 
"I'm just going up and mak­more runs in the sixth inning Pryblo and A.J. Jones, shared ing sure I'm loose. There's no when George Restovich lifted a the relief duties and held the secret," said Topham. 1-0 pitch over the right field Crusaders hitless as Murphy 
''I'm just trying to hit the ball fence for a three-run homer to worked each about an inning. 



MCC No. 1 ranking on the line 
by MEGAN McGRATH Sheryl Depta also contributes with a .293 av­Sports Writer erage, three homers and 16 RBI. The Irish counter with junior catcher Sara 
In last year's MCC softball tournament final Hayes, who's nine home runs and 35 RBI are far game, Notre Dame edged Loyola 4-3 in eight and away tops in the MCC. She also lead the innings to claim the conference championship. league with a .391 batting average. Senior first 
This season, the Ramblers find themselves a baseman Stephanie Pinter is just behind Loyola's game behind the Irish in MCC standings, and this Trennery among MCC batting leaders with a afternoon they will be given a chance to avenge .328 mark. last season's defeat and take over the lead in the After dueling Loyola, the Irish take on regional conference if they are able to beat Notre Dame in foes Indiana State in a Sunday double~header at a 3:30 p.m. double-header at Ivy Field. 1 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
"Loyola is one game out, and last year it came Notre Dame has posted a 2-0 record over ISU down to the two of us," head coach Liz Miller. "I this season, with both wins coming in the haven't seen them play this season, but from Sycamore Classic at Indiana State. The Irish what I understand they're even stronger. We are shut the Sycamores out twice. really expecting some good games." However, Notre Dame benefited in these games 
The Irish are hoping to rebound from a disap­from two of Kobata's strongest outings of the pointing split of a double-header Wednesday at season, as the first win was a perfect game and Northern Illinois. the second a no-hitter. 
Notre Dame was able to take the first game 7-This weekend's games will provide the Irish 6, but sophomore ace pitcher Terri Kobata re­with a chance to evaluate the health of senior aggravated a muscle strain in her leg and had to pitcher Carrie Miller. Miller suffered a stress leave the game. The Irish then struggled in the fracture of her leg in March, and has been side­second game, falling 11-4. lined since. Tuesday she was given clearance to 
According to Miller, Kobata's status is day to begin working out again with the team. day. "Hopefully we will get a chance to see what 
Loyola counters with a pitching .ace of their Carrie Miller can do," said Miller. "We want to own in junior Kari Klier. Klier boasts a 16-11 be cautious and work her back slowly. At most, record, good for fifth in the MCC. She is second she could be used a defensive replacement in the to Kobata with 108 strikeouts and has saved outfield." three games. The key to evaluating the injuries of Miller and 
At the plate, the Ramblers are led by South Kobata is caution, according to Miller. Bend native Steph Trenerry. Trenerry is batting "We want to work people back slowly so they at a .333 clip, with four home runs and 15 RBI. are healthy later in the season, " Miller said. 
Clothin2 & Usable Item Drive 
The St. Vincent De Paul Society 
-



Clothings, Furniture, Appliances, & Other Usable Items. 
• 
ALL Residence Halls Monday, April 25 
Monday, May 2 
Monday, May 9 
0fv1EU5 Monday, May 16 
MIN15TRY 
Campus Ministry, 631-5242 & The St. Vincent De Paul Society, 234-6000 


eballlooking tO lam rival Aces 
ting the long ball with M Zywica, Jason Imrisek Hank Wheeler, boasting homers for the year. 
On the mound, Evansville also strong with a team run average of 4.36. · pitchers have records above 
including Kyle Ritter 1A.ndy Noblitt· (3~g. Kimball (2:..2, 4.50) an 
. . Helfrich (2·1, 7.36).% ··· the regu~ · · ··ore valuable than th ·• story.,w,.;.stats is the· attitude the several''' will bring into the · -··'.a.....,, ......•.. . the Irish. Last conference series. vansville won two of "1 know the kind of p from the Irish heating they are. They're competitors. .· Dall1e's two winningest If you give them anything Tom Price and Chrts they'll take advantage of said Irish nrst baseman 1\U.liUJ-.>1 Although Evansville's 16-21 Kent who is from Evansvill record is unimpressive, and has played with 
the Aces are 5-5 in the MCC against several members of have heat Georgia, Purdue team in the past. Western Kentucky. Being from Evansville 
Pat Murphy is expecting the make the game any "~·~h~·~ 1 to come to Eck Stadium for Kent. to play this weekend. "I've got to look at it as 
''Evansville will always play other game. I'd like to do Notre Dame tough. They do a against them because last job and they have nothing I went down there and lose," said Murphy. "They do well, but they're awuuJL~ ry good pitching and MCC opponel!.t. We've got te.n .them in three hear down," said Kent. !Sfl;aigJilt fmal (MSC tournament) . The Irish will be looking"'a p~etty good Kent, who has a hit in 26 of 
·,' ~--~=r:-.. ::: 

30 games he has played, Birk, Matt Haas and others leads pontinue the offensive 
· · average ~.:~\vhich has been unrelenting in . is not farY: the last two weeks. As a team, .302 mark. the Irish as averaging 10.7 hits 
capable of hit-per game. · 
STUDENTS! 
Shopping for a new car for after graduation? Then look at this! 
• 
Rates as low as 6.25% APR for a new car and 7.25% APRfor a used car. 

• 
Up to 5 years to repay and deferred payments until September, 1994. 

• 
$100 CASH BONUS when your loan is disbursed. 


Students with good credit or no credit qualify, no co-signer needed. Bring your letter of employment. 
G 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Independent of the University of Notre Dome 


Women near final 
by MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
The Bookstore Basketball Tournament is filled with leg­endary players like founder Lou Nanni and this year's vet­eran Kris "Hoosier" Winningham and teams like Tequila White Lightning . 
The Women's Bookstore Tournament has its share of legends, too and they will be on display this weekend in the women's final four. 
Defending champion Anthony Travel, led by last year's MVP and women's basketball assis­tant coach Sar:tdY Botham, has already advanced to Saturday's 
1:30 p.m. semi-final after a 21­8 defeat of Ring My Bell. 
The top-seed also features Marianne Haggerty, a five-year Bookstore commissioner, and graduate assistant Karen Robinson, who is Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer. 
Offering the toughest compe­tition! are led by players who Botham and Robinson coached. 
The other final four team is Mishawaka Brewing Company. It stars Kara Leary and Kristin Knapp. along with soccer play­ers Michelle McCarthy and Rosella Guerrero. They beat Below the Net, featuring volley­ball players Jen Briggs and Kristina Ervin 21-15. 
The remaining teams battle at 4 p.m. Friday at Stepan. 
You Didn't Know About Us, featuring basketball players Andrea Alexander and Sheri Orlosky and soccer player Jodi Hartwig, battles Siegfried's Short an~assy. 
The other game stars volley­ball's Julie Harris' Basketball Goddesses versus "Every Now and Then I Get A Little," fea­turing members of Walsh's Interhall runner-up team. 
The final will be Sunday at 2 
p.m. at Stepan. 
''S~'' 
YOUR 
with every _ tanning package ~ purchase 
GET FREE TANNING! 
FOR A LIMITED TIME (WITH THIS AD) Expires 5/6/94 
FOR OEIAilS CAll272-7653 

holly hunter harvey keitel sam neill 
the Pi an o 
a jane campion film 

[j{]~ 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:15 & 9:45 CALL 631-7361 FOR TIMES AND DATES 
FOR ALL SNITE FILMS 



Jesus, Rocket in Hall 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
As Bookstore Basketball XXIII enters its final weekend, there is one game that everybody is still waiting to see. Nobody cares who wins this game as long as everybody has fun. It's the Hall of Fame game, and it's at the Bookstore at 3:00 pm on Friday before the Elite Eight. 
This year, Jesus McKinley and the Rotund Weeds will face a team consisting of former Notre Dame football players Rocket Ismail and Lake Dawson, varsity basketball players Joe Ross and Carl Cozen as well as women's bas­ketball star Kara Leary. 
"It'll be more of a theatrical event," said Kevin Fleming, captain of the Jesus team. 
"It should be a great game with lots of razzle-dazzle," said commissioner Pete Coleman, and organizer of the game. 
"The Jesus team is hilarious, but the all stars might be seri­ous." 
Fleming's team will play with accompanying music from Enigma while dressed up as Jesus' apostles, Judas, Thomas. and Luke. 




Irish upset No.ll Kentucky 
By PHIL LANGER Sports Writer 
Yesterday afterno'on the Notre Dame men's tennis team, currently in a three-way tie for 14th-place in the polls, proved that the basketball courts of Stepan aren't the only sites for upsets by shocking No. 11 Ken­tucky 4-3. 
This upset is just as impres­sive as that of Duke because in reality the Irish knocked ofT the No. 3 team in the nation. The Wildcats only dropped to No. 11 when three of their top players, who were back in the line-up yesterday, accepted cash money from the pro tour. 
It came as no surprise that the key to Thursday's victory was the doubles point. Fifth­year senior Andy Zurcher and senior Todd Wilson defeated Mayher/Goodharz 8-6; sopho­mores Mike Sprouse and Jason Pun beat Yager/Thompson 8-6; and freshman Ryan Simme and senior Allan Lopez lost an emo­tional tie-breaker 8-9 to Langk­ford!Trebley. 
The Irish fans were shocked early when sophomore Jason Pun quickly loSt 1-6, 2-6 to Fer­na~ez. The blood quickly be-



AreYou Thinking ofBuying a New Car?!! 
(Now that all the morning classes, term papers and all-nighters are finished!!) 
Well ... Jordan Ford Makes It Easy ForYou. 
gan to recirculate when Pun was avenged by fellow class­man John Jay O'Brien. O'Brien beat Langford 6-1, 6-4 in what many believed was his best match of the year. 
The spotlight, however, fell on freshman sensation Ryan Simme. Simme played the familiar role of 'David' by de­stroying All-American and pro­tour veteran Hoppkinson 6-2, 6-3. 
Close behind in the highlight real was sophomore Mike Sprouse. Sprouse squeaked by Thompson, a US national team member, 7-6, 7-6. 
Thus, with one match left in another stellar season, the Irish can once again look forward to the NCAA tournament with their eyes on the prize. The sole obstacle remaining is Northwestern on Sunday. 

S400 CASH BACK 
OR 

SPECIAL A.P.R. 
CALL OR STOP IN 
FOR DETAILS 



JORDAN FORD 
Corner of Jefferson and Cedar, Mishawaka 
(219) 259"1981. (219) 264-9926 
INTRODUCING RYAN ROBERTS 
Jordan's Notre Dame Campus Repn:JSeJDtattive. 
&~))
Fun B.elh­
. ~ ..•s'·


--------~ 
Ill 

I , .., 
t 

{ . _ ...._ _"!..!!._L__ 
Campus Phone: (219) 277-6780 EMAIL: Ryan.N.Roberts.8@nd.edu 
.. 

page 20 
., 
Mosley steps into bigger, better role 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 
The responsibilities and ex­pectations placed upon Emmett Mosley this spring have been rather overwhelming. 
Mike Miller's absence from practice has meant a shift from his tailback position of last year to working at flanker this spring and probably into the fall. Not only has this meant increased playing time for the sophomore, it has meant in­creased pressure. 
Mosley is expected to step into Miller's spot as the kick returner as well as the primary option on one of Coach Lou Holtz's pet plays, the middle screen. These facets of the game are often undervalued, but for Notre Dame, they are vital. 
All this added attention may have an adverse affect on someone who saw the field for just one play last year {a carry against Boston College), but not Mosley. He has been the pic­ture, and often the voice, of confidence. 
"You have to have confi­dence," said the 5'9', 180 lb Mosley. "It's very important, especially here at Notre Dame. There is so much talent and depth so you have to feel you can get the job done." 
So far this spring, Mosley has indeed gotten the job done. He has earned a start at flanker for the Gold squad in tomor­row's Blue and Gold game. 
''I'm ready for it," com­mented the speedy Aurora, CO. native. ''I've been looking for-

The Observer/ Eric Ruethllngl 
If Mike Miller does not return next year, Mosley's role will increase. 
., 
1635 Edison Road South Bend, IN (across from The Linebacker) 



EDELNER! 
(219)272-0902 
ward to this ever since I signed my letter of intent to here. I feel we're ready for it. We're pretty well prepared. We had a good day of offense the last practice. jelled and got our timing." 
Timing was something that was not on Mosley's side last season. After spending the majority of the season working with the scout team, he finally saw action in a game-for just one play. Not enough to learn 
from, but just enough to cost him a year of eligibility. 
Mosley does not appear to be bitter. 
"To be honest, last year was frustrating," he said. "But it was definitely helpful. I learned a lot, especially from guys like Lake {Dawson) and Clint {Johnson). I needed to learn before I became in­volved." 
Now that he has learned, he is ready to be involved. 
"I plan on being a big part of the team finally," he said. "Just to be a part of Notre Dame football is unbelievable. Last year I suited up and I guess I contributed, but it is a whole different thing when you contribute on the field." 
Along with backing up Charles Stafford at flanker, Mosley will be key on the spe­cial teams. 
"Right now, I'm running back kicks. I plan on carrying on the tradition of Notre Dame's re­turn game. I just want to do whatever I can to help the team." 
We'll see what whatever is tomorrow. 

BLUE DEFENSE 
~--------------~~~----------------~~~~----~------~--


Powlus 
continued from page 24 
Starting for the Blue team at quarterback will be freshman Tom Krug, who has seen the most time out of any other quarterback this spring. 
At quarterback for the Gold team will be Wade Smith, who has not had much playing time this spring. 
Powlus should be happy for even this chance to get playing time. Holtz generally does not take chances with many of his players, much less the most highly recruited quarterback in years. 
"You just don't stick your head out the back kitchen door, give a holler and get many like him," Holtz said. "You can tell he's not your average player." 
One may think that allowing your quarterback to throw but not to put him in a game situa­tion does no good at all, but just getting out on the field is enough for Powlus. 
''I'm glad I'm practicing this spring," he said. "I've learned a tremendous amount so far. I have a good grasp on offense and a chance to get everything down. If I didn't play this spring, I'd feel like I had a big disadvantage." 


Tues-Fri 11-2:30 (lunch) Salurday-Sunday: 4-9 
-----·----------------­
The Observer • BLUE-GOLD GAME 
The freshman has made great strides this spring, and even without being hit by the defense, Powlus has earned the respect of his teammates. 
"I think you learn something about an individual every time you put him in a situation, and I thought he responded very well," Holtz said of putting his quarterback into Tuesday's team scrimmage. "But the most encouraging thing was the way the players rallied around him." 
Of course, in order to earn the team's respect, the fresh­man has had to deal with Holtz's perfectionist attitude and flaring temper. 
"He has to yell, he's a coach," Powlus said. "It's his job. It's not that bad." 
With all these things going for him, one might wonder why Powlus ever wants to get knocked around by all those mean defenders. 
"He's only had a little bit of football in the last two years," Holtz continued. "The only thing I worry about is how much frustration he has expe­rienced in his life." 
"There are some positives that will come out of it," Powlus said. 
Like being able to wear a snazzy gold jersey, for one thing. 
TOYO GRtll 
Traditional Japanese/Korean, Yakiniku Sushi, Teriyaki, Buigogi, Shabu Shabu -Call for Reservations­
5-9:30 (dinner) 

To Dave l:l Tom: 
Our favorite wacky off beat types with perfect hair! 
JJJruww~ 8iloo w~cilru~2 
Love, Am~ 8 Brian 
VISION 2000 
Chicago freelance 
writer/NO grad needs to 
interview Darners using 
Vision 2000 Meditation 
series for a national 
magazine article. 
Please contact: 
A.T. Palmer 873 Forest Hill Dr. 
Lake Forest, IL 60045 (708) 234-9223 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.~.~.~-~-~-~-~--~..~.~.~-~.~-~~-~~fl.._.~ ...t:~~l~ !!-~ ~ ~T--­
--------~---------------------------------------~ 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Assistant SportS Editor 
Last week, Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz felt almost cer­tain that the football team would not be having its annual Blue-Gold Game. 
"I don't see how we can have a spring game," the coach said. 
The unexpected happened for the 64th straight year, how­ever. And this year, the matchups appear to be even. 
Offensively, the Blue team will start Tom Krug at quarter­back. The freshman has seen the most time out of any signal caller this spring. 
"Tom Krug is a very good quarterback," Holtz said. "He has a good arm and he can take a hit." 
Krug may be getting hit fre­quently tomorrow, especially by Gold defensive ends Brian Hamilton and Germaine Holden. Both are penciled in to start next year. 
They may have trouble get­ting around the Blue offensive liiie, however. This unit will be led by guards Jeremy Akers and Dusty Ziegler, who both saw playing time in crucial situ­ations last year. 
The Gold team will be look­ing to run left behind guard Mark Zataveski and freshman tackle Chris Clevenger. 
Probably the biggest battle for a starting position will be at center. Freshman Rick Kaczenski will be the anchor of the Blue squad, while junior Greg Stec will snap for the Gold team. Both have been battling throughout the spring for the 

Rememl:7er: All Students are international studentslll This includes youIll Bring friends, and enjoy volleyball and other recreational activitieslll 
page 21 

right to fill the shoes of Tim Ruddy. 
Calling the signals for the Gold team will be sophomore Wade Smith, who has seen lim­ited playing time in scrimmages this spring. His targets will be returning letterman Derrick Mayes and freshman standout Emmett Mosley. 
Heading up the Blue squad secondary are free safety Bobby Taylor and cornerback LaRon Moore, who have also been practicing with the first team defense during spring practice. 
Krug's main targets for the Blue team will be the speedy receivers Cikai Champion and Charlie Stafford. They will be covered by the Gold squad's Brian Magee at cornerback and Travis Davis at strong safety, Davis and Magee have both been on the top of the depth charts all spring. 
The most even distribution of talent between the two teams occurs at the linebacker and running back positions. The Gold team will start first team­ers Lee Becton and Marc Ed­wards in the backfield, and Justin Goheen and Bert Berry on defense. 
Starting for the Blue team are Ray Zellars and Randy Kinder at running back, and Renaldo Wynn and Jeremy Sample at linebacker. 
"The most pleasant surprise of the spring has been Jeremy Sample," Holtz said earlier this spring. 
The head coach for the Blue team will be quarterback coach Tom Clements, while defensive tackle coach Mike Trgovac will lead the Gold team. Freshman Ron Powlus will play sparingly with both teams in tomorrow's scrimmage. 
r:,::e::P:--T~ PI:C;-whe-;e -;x7eiie":c;-,;;;;s-p;;,;;ih,;-50"; ;ff, 
I Notre Dame Students and Heavenly Ham Food Box lunch I 
CROISSANT-BAKED DAILY CHOICE SALADS To Go FRESH COOKIES Box LuNCHES To Go 

I  
HAM SANDWICH  
I  TuRKEY SANDWICH  
I  HAM SALAD SANDWICH  
I  TuRKEY SALAD SANDWICH  

I Heavenly Hams 
I Corner of Edison & Ironwood 2307 Edison Road 
~~ I 
May 31,1994 
~X I • • .. ~~ • • I 

•
:·: ~ • .... : I ~ I 
/NSTA-PICK UP I 
--_;~ ~8~~7_J 

,-----------~--­
page 22 The Observer • LACROSSE Friday, April 22, 1994 



The Observer/John Bingham 
Senior Robbie Snyder has become and offensive threat and integral piece to the Irish Lacrosse team this year. · 
Introducing Michiana's # 1 Pizza
Record to fall against OSU 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 
Tomorrow's Notre Dame lacrosse game against Ohio St. may go down in the books as the day Randy Colley broke the all-time Irish point record. But right now, the Irish only see it as a chance to take one step closer to an NCAA tournament berth. 
Colley is just three points away from breaking Mike Sulli­van's record of 185 career points. It is a safe bet that Col­ley will break the record. He is averaging more than four points per game through Notre Dame's first nine (41 points). 
It is an equally safe bet that the Irish will achieve their pre­eminent goal of coming out vic­torious if they maintain the same level of intensity and con­sistency that they've played with recently. 
* *

Starllte PIZZa
Knowing they have to win depth and superior talent 
their final two games, the Irish should compensate and make 
now seruing at Frank's Redhots 
have clearly stepped up their for a smooth 60 minute game. 
performance. 
They can ill afford a let-down against a rather weak Buckeye squad. But based on past expe­rience, the Irish know full well that it will take a solid four quarter effort. 
While Colley's chase for the record may serve to slightly dis­tract the Irish, Notre Dame's 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bo!.lght and sold 

• 
25 Categories oi Books 

• 
25,COJ Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service -$2.00 

• 
Appraisais large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday thi"Dugh Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

#273-4643 1733 South Bend Rue 


'MASSAGING THE MEDIA' 
A company wants to market its hot new product: genetically engi­neered corn. It spins the story one way. Consumer 'advocates' spin it another ... Guess who's caught spinning in the middle? Price Waterhouse invites you to join us for this fascinating episode of On the Issues. Watch leaders from the worlds of business, government, academia and the media think out loud as they struggle at the crossroads where moral dilemmas and tough business decisions collide. 
Presenled by Maryland Pubhc Telev•s•on. Produced by Atvm H Perlmutter, Inc. 
APRIL 22, 10 P.M. ON PBS. CHECK LOCAL LISTINGS. 
...they need something that sounds~! 
The media is 

One network assumes if the a megaphone
TV 
for this kind I praystory is about a big company, takes its of company. to Godthe company must be wrong. 

responsibility 

This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
Thursday -April 21  Saturday -April 23  
#14 Notre Dame  Notre Dame Track  
Men's Tennis  vs. Eastern Illinois  
vs. Kentucky  12:00 pm Cartier Field  
3:15 pm Courtney Courts  
Notre Dame Lacrosse  
Friday -April 22  vs. Ohio State  
Notre Dame Softball  3:30 pm Krause Stadium  
vs. Loyola Chicago  FREE ADMISSION  
3:30 pm Ivy Field  
FREE ADMISSION  

Notre Dame Baseball Saturday -April 23 and Sunday -April 24 Notre Dame vs. Evansville 1:00 pm Eck Stadium 
On Saturday-FREE sunglasses to the first 1,000 fans courtesy of the Notre Dame Credit Union 

• 

ACROSS 34 "Anothe~, year 
1 Does over 35 Hebrew letter 10 Dogie catcher after shin 15 Clear 36 Farm male 16 Moliere's "L'-37 Ending for cash 
des femmes" 39 Flying Cloud, in 17 Fame old automobiling 18 Engraver's tool 40 Give-rest 
19 Fr. holy woman 41 "How­20 Legendary doing?" name in sitcoms 42 Food topping 21 Replay 44 Dispatch 
technique 46 She played 22 S.A.T. org. Alice in "Alice" 23 Former aviation 48 Early weather 
ag~.;y. satellite 28 Z-zebra 49 Choreographer 27 Grate White of "The 30 1942Jimmy Music Man" 
Dorsey hit 50 Dauphin 32 Load-bearing 51 Two-piece part steel 53 Ayn and Sally 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:,:+::+=-E:-Iiiillllllllli 
,...._~-+=-Ei~~ 

t>.\..L RIG\{\, 
CAL'm-1.! vU1E.R.E'D '{aJ 
G:J?.' I 
kNOW ~OJ'RE OJT \-\ERE! 
55 Steadfast 57-Lingus (Irish carrier) 60 One of 27 works 
by Chopin 
61 The privileged 
63 '60 Wimbledon champ-Fraser 64 Welcomed to the fold 
65 Canadian physician Sir William 
66 Justice chief 
DOWN 
1 Fam. tree listings 2 Kind of poll 3lditarod terminus 
4 Solitary 5 Grassland 6 Aggressive one, 
they say 7 Car owners 
need them a Kosher 9 Prepared 
10Johnny­(soldiers) 
11 Eyepiece 
12 Hollowness 
ratios 13 Does away with 
-::-t'::-t:+:-1 14 Splitsville? 
22 Clean air agcy. 
24 Hurricane of 
1992 

25 1958 Pulitzer 
winner for fiction 
Have fun today, whether you're bungee running, sumo wrestling, gyro-ing, getting tattoos, or rearranging your dismembered barbie dolls so that they spell out your favorite state capital's theme song . Don't forget to check out tonight's campus bands, among other things. All this and more brought to you by SUB. You're welcome. Gleep! Sunsets. Jasper Savoyaki. uh,Bill. 
'<'0\lR PI\Rm\S \CJ\..0 iW 
lO BEHAVE TON\G\-l\, R£\J.t.\IIBER ?.' \1.\t.i'R£ ~0\ GOING m BE \41\PP'{ W\iE.t-1. 11-lt.i HEI\R 1\~T TillS.' 
BILL WATTERSON 
SIT. I \r 'tiE 1\f>.\) 

\\()!'\~~' ~£ 
OOJG\-\1 (>.. LXX; 

CAM£ \\ER£. 
INS\Ef>..D, L\I(E 

m RH.N<. 
I Wf..NIED, WE 

\.BS Tfo.LK 
AB()J\
COJLO GO 0\JT 
LIKE T\-\15 Ml. 

SeMEn\lNG 
ELSE.
11\£. TIME. 

lrr-+--t---t-t--t--+-t-t-­
27 Oscar, Tony, Grammyand Emmywinner 
28 Loathes 
29 Like recommended dental visits 
30 Bullfighter 
31 Magazine for which publisher Ralph Ginzburg went to jail 
33 See-through silicate 

38 Is off base 52 Send payment 43 Four-time Super 54 Diviner Bowl QB 56 Botch 
45 Kind of brain 57 Chip in 58 Eve's place 
47Fiddle-­(nonsense) 59 Try again 
61 Alphabet trio city 62 Galley blade 51 Big Sky Country 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
1 
l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
l 

1 



Now is the time to place your congratulatory ad for the May 13th commencement edition. 
-
STUDENT~ONBOARD 
would like to say "horse radish" five times fas:t horse radish, horse radish, hors radsh, horsh radiss hosh relish. Then, go! Find a reed. Go. Why are you reading this? Finish your burger. 
SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, April 22, 1994 
And then there were eight 

JOCK STRIP 
Blow the whistle on the fans 

B
ookstore Basketball is played for many reasons. Some teams play for fun, others to exercise, and some play very hard in order to 
i win. When playing Amorosa 
t 
hard, tempers sometimes begin to flair and the 
" 
I 
! intensity level rises. Subsequently, authority figures must step into the fray to defuse certain situations. In the case of Bookstore, there are commissioners in their new blueI jackets, and there are student ref­erees.
I 
I had the chance to be a referee for two games played earlier this week. The commissioners adver­tised for the referee positions in The Observer for a week leading up to the Round of 64. Whenever I saw the ad mentioned in the Sports Briefs, I always said that I would never do it no matter how much they paid me. Well, I did two games and I'll receive 16 dollars for it. I The Observer/Jake Peters 
Ebony Side of the Dome's Oliver Gibson reacts to a play by C.C.. E. 's Keith Ziolkowsi during yesterday's see AMOROSA/ page 17 game. C.C.E. went on to upset No.4 Ebony. 
Good as Gold 
Ron Powlus is ready to take a hit 
By MIKE NORBUT 
"When I rebroke my Assistant Spotts Editor collarbone, coach Holtz told me that he Ron Powlus will be wanted me to wait easy to spot in tomor-until August to take row's Blue-Gold hits," Powlus said. Game. He'll be play-''I'm ready to get in 
ing for both squads ......________;;;;._________..there and take some and wearing a bright gold jersey. hits, but I understand that there have Powlus has been dressed in gold all to be some precautions." spring, marking the quarterback as Despite his caution, Holtz has made an off limits target for the defense. a decision to give his freshman a taste "It's tough playing football without of a Notre Dame football game. being hit," Powlus commented. "It Powlus will play four series in tumor­doesn't even really feel like I'm play-row's scrimmage, two per half for ing." both the Blue and Gold squads. Powlus injured his collarbone at a But of course, the defense will not scrimmage during the fall and sat out be allowed to hit him. the entire 1993-94 season. This was "I'm glad I'll get a chance to get in," after he had practically earned the he continued. "It will be good to go starting role over Kevin McDougal. against a live defense, but it will A recurrence of this injury midway make it hard on them, because through the season convinced Irish they're not going to be able to go full head coach Lou Holtz to hold his speed at me." freshman back until fall practice begins. 
see POWLUS/ page 21 
• Depth Charts and Game Analysis pages 20&21 

Ebony and Sudden Death fall to upstarts 
STEP.AN 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Assistant Sports Editor 

If there were any doubts that Bookstore is treated as more than an average pickup basket­ball tournament, yesterday's events should eliminate them. A standing ovation, numerous fights, a near ejection, and the toppling of two giants high­lighted the 'Sweet 16' of Book­store XXIII. 
Court 5 proved to be the set­ting for upheaval, as No. 12 Showtime knocked off No. 5 Sudden Death 21-17, followed soon after by an upset of even greater magnitude, as No. 13 
C.C.E stunned No. 4 Ebony Side of the Dome 21-17. 
The contest between C.C.E and Ebony was a classic exam­ple of one team taking another 
see BOOKSTORE I page 16 
-







