
-
Thursday, February 17, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 92 

Hopes for 'The Dead' still alive 
By KATIE MURPHY News Writer 
Since being elected last week to the offices of student body president and vice-president, juniors David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh have already be­gun their quest to bring the Grateful Dead to campus. 
They have contacted some band promoters in California and Indianapolis, and they plan to meet with members of the administration this week. 
"Whether or not we get the Grateful Dead , we definitely want a big name band to come and play in the Joyce Athletic Convocation Center (JACC)," said Hungeling. 
Unfortunately, the Grateful Dead is booked through De­cember of this year, and the campus facilities seem inade­quate for a school year concert, according to Dennis MeNally, promoter for the band. 
"I don't quite see how this would work. My understanding is that the JACC seats only 11,000. We haven't done shows less than 16,000 or 17,000 in 
Graduate Student Union has new leader 
By CORRINE DORAN 
News Writer 
The Ed Wingenbach!Elizabeth Schaefer ticket claimed official victory in the Graduate Student Union (GSU) election last evening after capturing 70 of the 96 votes cast by graduate students. 
Since the ballot only con­tained one ticket, GSU election officials were pleased with the turnout for the vote, said Lezlie Knox of the elections, creden­tials and procedures commit­tee. 
"We are very pleased with the turnout. It exceeded our expectations," said Knox. "A lot of people took advantage of the opportunity to give feed­back." 
The ballot gave graduate stu-


Tne Observer/Alan Smitn 

Sketching away 
Pasquerilla East sophomore Malaika Kim sketches her project on an AIDS clinic in the Architecture Building. 
years," said McNally. 
The Grateful Dead also does not book one-night shows. Usually the band plays three shows in one location. 
They make exceptions during the summer, however, when they perform in football stadi­ums. 
"It's certainly no dislike of Notre Dame," he continued. "I just cannot imagine the admin­istration of the University of Notre Dame allowing the Grate­ful Dead into that most holy of holy places, Notre Dame Sta­dium. I don't think Touchdown Jesus would go for it." 
Above all, a concert at Notre Dame would depend on the band's opinion of the facilities. If a location's logistics (such as the traffic patterns of the city) and the acoustics are not suffi­cient, they will not perform there. The availability of a facil­ity also determines its use. 
"Deadheads frequently have the most amazing theories of where the band plays, whereas in actuality those are the only 3 reasons that control it," Me-
dents the opportunity to write in about issues they felt were important. 
"They focused a lot on health care and the library. There were a lot of reactions to the platform," said Knox. 
One of the more immediate issues that will be addressed by the administration will deal with governance of graduate students, according to Wingen­bach. 
''I'd like to see graduate stu­dents accountable to the grad school. There should be some kind of centralization," said Wingenbach. 
Health care is also an impor­tant issue to the officers-elect. 
''I'd like to see the University make secondary coverage for spouses and dependents more affordable or the University Nally said. 
In response to these prelimi­nary obstacles, Hungeling and Orsagh say they plan to go ahead with their promise to bring the Grateful Dead. 

"What we'll need is a string of luck to cajole the administra­tion into doing something in the JACC," said Hungeling. 
Since the Grateful Dead is booked the rest of 1994, Hun­geling and Orsagh will try to have them come in the spring or early fall of 1995. 
"(MeN ally) basically told us how we would go about (bring­ing them here)." said Hungeling. 
Hungeling and Orsagh's elec­tion has attracted nationwide media attention. In addition to being interviewed by the Chicago radio station WCKG, a number of college newspapers and the Associated Press have featured stories on their cam­paign. 
"They were interested in the humor of it and obviously since Notre Dame is so well-known," said Hungeling. 
could subsidize it," Wingenbach said. 
Continuing the GSU's in­volvement in furthering social issues will also claim an impor­tant role during the new administration. 
"Social issues-concerns with women's issues and gay and lesbian issues-are important," said Wingenbach. "It's some­thing we've been doing, and I don't want to lose the momen­tum on that." 
Departments will soon be choosing representatives to serve on the GSU. The GSU represents students in degree granting programs, not in the law school or in MBA pro­grams, according to Knox. 
Wingenbach and Schaefer will take office on March 2. 

The Observer/ Alan Sm~h 

When in Expo Roma ... 
Senior architecture students Rick Schaupp and Greg Midget work on the Expo Roma exhibit in the foyer of the Architecture Building. 


Saint Mary's election results are finally official 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The election results for the classes of 1996 and 1997 are now official, 48 hours after the polls closed, resulting in a win and a run-off, respectively. 
The sole ticket for the sopho­more class, consisting of Laura Loh for president, Emily Ruffner for vice-president, Becky Kellogg for secretary, and Kathleen Zimmer for trea­surer won with 78.5 percent of the votes. 
Twenty-one and one half per­cent of the voters abstained, and only 15.7 percent of the current freshman class voted on Tuesday. 
"We're excited and honored to represent the class of '97 next year," Loh said. "We hope to make our sophomore year a memorable, productive, and fun year." 
The Jen Paluszak for presi­dent, Erin Shern for vice-presi­dent, Kari Fantasia for secre­tary and Paulette Raczkowski for treasurer ticket received 
48.3 percent of the junior classes' vote. However, since they lacked a majority, there will be a run-off election next Tuesday against the second place Kathy Petrovic ticket. 
The ticket consisting of Petro­vic for president, Heather Mc­Donald for vice-president, Mary Beth Hozl as Secretary and Amy Misch for treasurer re­ceived 27.5 percent of the vote. 
Ten percent of the sopho-­more class abstained officially and 44.9 percent of the class voted. 
"We're excited about the run-
SAINT MARY'S CLASS ELECTIONS 
Class of 1997 15.7% voted 


off," Paluszak said. "I really know that we're the ones that can do the job. We hope that the students that did not vote do and the remaining 48 per­cent continue to support us." 
The official results were not announced yesterday due to miscommunication in the Office of Student Activities, according to election commissioner Mau­reen Sullivan. 
"After the polls closed yester­day, we realized that we didn't have some of the campaign re­ceipts from the candidates of these two classes," Sullivan said. "With the preparation for Junior Mom's Weekend and Sophomore Parents Weekend, the receipts were placed in a pile and overlooked." 
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, February 17, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN NATION AT AGLANCE 

It's time to 


replace the 

Honor Code 
A Modest Proposal: 
I know that Notre Dame has an Honor Code. I also know that as soon as the professor left the room dur­ing one of my finals last spring, notebooks flew open like an old screen door on a windy aay. As far as I know, the incident Brian Seiler was never reported and Asst. Viewpoint Editor everyone passed the class. Furthermore, what reaon do I have for getting a bunch of people in toru­ble who probably weren't even cheating to begin with? Nice honor code. 


Or what about the feeling one gets while tak­ing the test, knowing that people are cheating around them, knowing that they are responsible for turning them in, and knowing that they must do very well on this particular test before them. How can anyone expect to do reasonably well on any exam if they are debating whether or not to turn someone in or even just thinking about what's going on around them and not the test itself? Nice honor code. 
Incidents like these lead me to believe that the Honor Code, as it stands, is quite ineffectual. According to Zoe Marin's report in the Campuses section (The Observer, Feb. 14, 1994). only fifteen cases are brought before the committee in an average semester. And I'm telling you I saw at least fifteen people cheat on the same test! Nice honor code. 
I think that there is a way to discourage cheaters, though. Good, hard, discipline. Perhaps a system like they used to have in Turkey. If a person got caught stealing, the authorities would cut off his hand. If he kicked a man in anger, they would cut off his leg. And if he raped a woman, they would, well, you know... 
I think we should scrap the Honor Code and implement what I like to call the Fear Code. The only problem is that I am not sure what part of the body to remove from a cheater. 
Should we rip out his/her eyes. because the eyes were used to garner the answers illegally? Or, should we saw off the top of the cheater's head and remove the brain, because the brain directed the cheater to cheat? Or. should we lop off their hand because it was used to tran­scribe the illicitly obtained answer? I admit, it's a very difficult situation which has me entirely perplexed. 
The only reasonable action to take, I guess, is to go whole hog for all three. First we stab their eyes out, then we rip their stinkin' head off, and then we slice their hand off. 
I think the Fear Code would be even more effective if, as an additional step, we scrap all the red tape and committees which the accused cheater must face, not to mention the added stress that classmates go through in deciding the cheater's fate. Yep, no more meetings, hearings, trials, or psycological excuses for poor grades. Just ship the filthy scum off to the Office of Student Affairs where they will be introduced to justice, Turkish style. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
JUDAY'S STAFF 
News Production Theresa Aleman Cheryl Moser Kate Crisham Kathie Young 
Sports Accent 
Mike Norbut Matt Carbone Viewpoint Chrisry Fleming Mark Krejci Graphics 
Lab Tech Chris Weirup Macy Hueckel 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exa~ and vaca.cion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Robertson assists in legal suit 
NORFOLK,Va 
A conservative legal rights group founded by evangelist Pat Robertson started a nationwide legal campaign today against schools that bar students from forming Bible clubs. 
The American Center for Law and Justice, founded by Robertson as a con­servative rival of the American Civil Liberties Union, filed a lawsuit in feder­al court against Smithfield High School 

and its parent Isle of Wight County School Board as part of a "nationwide legal assault." The center is reviewing as many as 85 cases in 28 states involving school deci­sions denying Bible club activities. said Jay Sekulow, chief counsel for the group. 
"Students here in Virginia and elsewhere are not going to be denied their rights simply because they choose to speak out on religion," he said. 
Two Smithfield High students, Jackie Marie Ferguson and Shauna Jones, said they were not allowed to form a Bible club at the school. Federal law requires schools to allow religion-based clubs if other noncurriculum organi­zations are permitted. 
H. Woodrow Crook, an attorney for the Isle of Wight school system, said the Smithfield school does not allow clubs that aren't based on its curriculum. The issue raised by the ACLJ involves whether language and sci­ence clubs, for example, should be viewed as curriculum or noncurriculum groups. 
Marla's publicist guilty of shoe theft 
NEW YORK 
Publicist Chuck Jones, who admitted being sexually fascinated by Marla Trump's shoes, was convicted Wednesday on charges he stole footware and undergar­ments from his ex-client. Jones, 52, of Greenwich, Conn., closed his eyes and lowered his head as the jury foreman pronounced him guilty. of all charges, including burglary, criminal possession of stolen property and weapons pos-. session. Mrs. Trump was not in the courtroom when the verdict was announced. Donald Trump's spokeswoman, Norma Foerderer, said he was out of the office and that the Trumps were not imme~iately aware of the verdict. Jones was arrested in July 1992 after police searched his mid-Manhattan office and found dozens of pairs of Mrs. Trump's missing shoes, boots and undergarments hidden in closets and drawers. They also found an unlicensed handgun. The backs of the footwear had been slashed. During his three-week state court trial, Jones spoke of his "sexual fascination" with women's shoes and said he had a "sexual relationship" with Mrs. Trump's shoes. 
Defense plays call made during Waco siege 
SAN ANTONIO 
Defense lawyers played a recording Wednesday of a Branch Davidian's frantic plea to "call it off' as a deadly shootout erupted with federal agents. "There are 75 men around our building and they're shooting at us at Mount Carmel," said Wayne Martin, a top lieutenant to David Koresh. "Tell them there's children and women in here and to call it off." More than once during the 911 call, Martin referred to the gunbattle as an attack. "They're attacking us again! ... They're attacking," he shouted. An hour of the call was played for jurors in the federal trial of 11 Branch Davidians accused of murder and conspiracy to murder the four Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms killed in the Feb. 28, 1993, shootout. Six cult members also died. If convicted, the cult members, who are pleading self-defense, could face up to life in prison. The gunbattle at the Davidians' Waco-area home began a 51-day standoff between the religious group and federal authorities that ended with 
an April19 fire that destroyed the compound. 
INDIANA Weather 
Thuooay, Feb.17 
Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
OHIO 


4~~~a~!)~~
S~~';e--,; 1-~t~;,;,s Rain ~~~;;;~~ -~~~·~:· ~~-=. Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
VIS Associated Pmss GraphicsNet 01994 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 
~takeover chronology 
com~~Y~~~~~ 1 Pn~~~~P~!!C:: ~{!~~~~~~"~ ~~p~o~e~:,~~~~~~r~7~r.
and OVC Network Inc., a cable TV shopping company. 
September ~ Delaware Chancery court ~ rules Paramount cannot use
& Vlacom agrees to acquire Its "poison pill" antitakeover 
stock v:~:d'~1u$~.'~'b~:~~. ~~d 
defense against ave. $69.14 a share. 
December 

fr-11? OVC makes counter-offer 
& Paramount throws ~ for cash and stock valued 
bidding open to all. at $9.5 billion, or $80 a share. 
!iiJ 
& QVC and Viacom submit ·v,·~-o rental company 
new bids, with ave raising 
..,..... 

cash portion to $92 a share for Blockbuster Entertainment 
50.1 percent of Paramount. Corp. agrees to $600 million 
r::.;,..-wl Paramount board investment In Viacom. 
~ recommends shareholders accept avc•o $10 biiUon bid.
October January

/",;."7 Vlacom signs Nynex Corp•• 
L:!./ the reQIOOal telephone (~I Vlacom agrees to merge wHh oompany, as It$ second partner far L.!_l Blockbuf;.ter and sweetens bid$1.2 billion. 
for Paramount, raistng cash portion to $105 a share for 50.1 percent and
ff::::r? Madia companies offering stock for the rest. 

~ Advance. Publications Inc. and Cox Enterprises Inc. agree to 
r.:-..~? Paramount's boardInvest a total of $1 billion In OVC. 

~ rejects TevJsed Viacom offer and recommends the ave btd.

QVC flnnounces hasUI6 &! $BO per share offer directly 
@ Vlacom revlsBB bid again.

to Paramount shareholders. 
bypassing Paramount board. 
$107 a~~~~~O:~~~~,~~t~d

adding a new security giving ~ avc·softer.
/~ Viaoom matches ~aramount shareholders protection 
1f new company's stock falls.
;::;;:.•?

~ ave sBBks a court 
~;'liJ Paramount's board swftches ~ again and recommend$ a

Param:.':l~~:~rv=~om 
merger with Vlacom.
completing merger. 
February
No~emb«u• 
~ Both companies sweeten ~ bid$, ave rai<les cash

.[";."7 Vlacom. r~ If$.. b..·•·..ld..to. 
. portion to $104 a share lor so.1 ••,. p$(()$nl o1 PatatY!Qt4nt lll.rt m<i~.~Ceo · securities offered f!it the rast. 

.. ~·$1.11;1#. ··.•,;.· 
·@, 
·' 
Vlaoom holtls cash offer at $107 a 
ovc.w 
&hlllfe for 50.1 p&ro"nt but adtls to 

hs $1;1011 muuon suppoo to 
the securllles fur the msl. mmove nogul..toJY Qbj...,tlon~. 
. f15"1 Viacom wins as 75 p$(()$nt of

, r:-..-2:::.'-"7.·ave ia~St~iiilii ".. f!edo ~ 1he ParamotJnt shares ate 
1 
tMdated to h. .
'' ~ SOOiull•re• 

AP 
Citrus commission hears Limbaugh critics 
LAKELAND, Fla. 
Rush Limbaugh will keep promoting Florida orange juice on his radio show despite protests against the right­wing talk show host, the state citrus commission chair­man said Wednesday. Seven people at the Florida Citrus Commission's monthly meeting urged the board to recon­sider Limbaugh's $1 million contract to promote orange juice during breaks on his syndicated radio show, which reaches about 20 million people a day. "I remember World War II, and I do not like being called a 'feminazi,' " said Jane Brumbaugh, president of the Polk County chapter of the National Organization for Women. Limbaugh frequently uses that term to describe feminists. Brumbaugh said orange juice shouldn't be associated with a divisive person who bashes minorities, women, gays, environment and animals. The Department of Citrus tried to distance itself from the matter, explaining the 6-month contract is to buy air time on Limbaugh's show, not to hire him as a spokesman. The contract started Monday. 
Four charged in student's hazing death 
CAPE GIRARDEAU, Mo. 
Four fraternity brothers were charged with involun­tary manslaughter Wednesday in what police said was the hazing death of a Southeast Missouri State University student. Michael Davis, 25, died Tuesday of blunt trauma to the head, county coroner John Carpenter said. Emergency crews were called to Davis' apartment by a friend who said he had stopped breath­ing. Rescuers were told that Davis was hurt in a sandlot football game the night before, Sgt. Carl Kinnison. Police, however, determined that Davis was beaten as part of fraternity hazing. Police would not descibe the hazing. Charged with involuntary manslaughter were Kappa Alpha Psi members Carlos Turner, 19; Mikel Giles, 22; Isaac Sims III, 22, and Cedric Murphy, 22. Kinnison said. The Southeast Missouri State students face up to seven years in prison and $5,000 fines if con­victed. More misdemeanor charges of hazing were filed against the four after it was learned that five others were beaten during fraternity activities, Kinnison said. 
NATIONAL Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 17. 30s 20s
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
............... ............_ ......-ar 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu·Weather. Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V18AasociatedPress 
Atlanta  67  38  Dallas  68  39  Minneapolis  41  15  
Baltimore  47  34  Denver  67  33  New Orleans  64  51  
Boston  32  25  Dixon  45  39  New York  39  32  
Brielle  38  27  Housron  71  44  Philadelphia  47  37  
Chicago  42  16  Los Angeles  69  57  Phoenix  80  49  
Columbus  42  22  Miami  76  69  San Francisco  63  52  

.....------~---------~----~-~~~---------------~ Thursday, February 17, 1994 The Observer • NEWS 

SM C students wage penny wars for charity 
By PATTI CARSON 
News Writer 
Each Saint Mary's residence hall is sponsoring a fund-raiser to help the victims of the Los Angeles earthquake, according to Regina Hall Resident Director Colette Shaw. 
Regina Hall is participating in a game called Penny Wars. In this game, jars are placed at 
CAMPUS BRIEF 

the front desk for every floor. Students then place pennies in the jar of their designated floor and silver coins in jars that belong to other floors, said Shaw. 
"When a student places a sil­ver coin in another floor's jar, the amount of that coin is sub­tracted from that floor's pen­nies," she said. The floor with 

"CHARMINGLY ECCENTRIC,
with a tremendous sense of fun:' 
-Janet Maslin, TilE NEW YORK TIMES 


"HILARIOUSLY FU~ 
visually strikin~ and emotionally compelhng!" 
-lance Loud, DETAilS 

"UPBEAT ENTERTAINMENT! 
A good time movie!" 

-Robert Denerstein, ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS 
the highest amount of pennies sponsor a fund-raiser. will win, said Shaw. According to McCandless Hall 
"Everyone is excited about Resident Director Shea Powell, Penny Wars," Shaw said. She "We will begin Penny Wars noted that the housekeeping when we receive the jars." and maintenance staff mem­bers are contributing to the The Residence Hall Associa­game by participating on the tion (RHA) will match the floors on which they work. amount that each dorm raises 
Holy Cross Hall is also and double it before sending participating in Penny Wars the money to Los Angeles, said and Le Mans Hall will also Shaw. 

Defense begins closing arguments ·in bomb trial 
By LARRY NEUMEISTER 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
A defense attorney for one of four men on trial in the World Trade Center bombing tried in closing arguments today to pin blame on a fugitive who es­caped to Iraq. 
Lawyer Robert Precht held a picture of Ramzi Yousef, 27, and called him a "devious, evil ... genius" who fled the country Feb. 26, the same day six peo­ple were killed and 1,000 in­jured in the blast. 
Precht called his client, Mo­hammad Salameh, 26, of Jersey City, N.J., an employee of Yousef's who did not know about the bombing plot. 
"He was terribly misled, terribly manipulated," Precht said of Salameh. 
In an attempt to show his client was a humble, struggling immigrant, Precht opened what he called a "miserable brief­case" before the jury that he said contained all of Salameh's worldly belongings: an assort­ment of random papers and pictures, having nothing to do with bombing or terrorism. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Henry DePippo spent Tuesday tracing a complicated trail that he said led back to the four Muslim fundamentalists on trial in U.S. District Court. The case could go to the jury as early as Friday. 
DePippo said the defendants used false identities, frequently charged telephone calls to third numbers and wiped away fin­gerprints in the Jersey City apartment where they made the bomb. 
Still, investigators found sufficient evidence after two parts of a yellow van that held the bomb were found in the rubble, the prosecutor said. 
For the first time in the trial, DePippo singled out Mahmud Abouhalima, 34, of Wood­bridge, N.J., as a leader in the bombing. He said Abouhalima was seen "barking out orders" to Salameh and Yousef outside the Jersey City apartment. 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:30 CALL 631-7361 FOR TIMES AND DATES FOR All CINEMA AT THE SNITE FILMS 






The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor Saint Matis News Editor Saint Maris Sports Editor Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Any full time student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Applicants are asked to submit a 1 page personal statement and resume to Beth Regan no later than 5 p.m. Monday, February 21. 
geJs·to the auestiion. By }lit­first;rth:e player his team the right to attempt to answer a honrufquestion. The team is allowed to confer with each '"'n''"ll"'" the bonus , ..""''"' uv ~~t 'only tournament, emcee ib '"It's to hamitup 
,"he said, 

··• • _ . . . also e'njoys 

· participating in the Co!le~e Bowh, ~I el\Joy being involved in the College Bowl, ifs fun to be competitive," he said. The winners of this year's College Bowl will be awarded a .. trophy which will h9;tlis­playe~ ~~ LaFortune Student Centet/, Sebesta is loo~ing forward'to the championship match next week. "1 know the other team YVelL .i.a~t year·I cotri}leted on a team with one of ~}leir teaJll :tne!Jlbers,", he said.
ThiS y~!tf,'s tournamentfol­lowed a/round-robin format, due to ·the small number of teams signed up for the competition. Only 1l.ine teams. competed this year. unlik~ Jlte past y~H\tS 'in whichb~lween 16.~,1)d 23 
OOJlllJ>e•ted for thtftitle. 

sellesta·· attributed ihe low involvement to a general lack ot awareness of the activity. "College Bowl· is not as. well publicized as some other events on campus, so it is not well knQwn," he commented. "On othet campuses, a lot more students get involved. which makes it a lot more competitive," >· 
__________________________________j 

[---­
page 4 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 17, 1994 

Some veterans waiting years for claims cases 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

American soldiers can reach remote hot spots within days or even hours, but many wait years to get hearings on in­juries they might have suffered. 
The Veterans Affairs De­partment acknowledges it is now losing the battle of coping with the tens of thousands of new claims for compensation and pensions coming in every year. Four years ago the back­log of pending claims was 377,000. By the end of fiscal year 1995, the VA estimates it could hit 870,000. 
On average, it takes more than 200 days to get an initial compensation claim processed, and a veteran can expect to wait more than two years to get a decision from the Board of Veterans Appeals. 
VA Secretary Jesse Brown said the backlog "remains one of the foremost concerns" in the Veterans Benefits Adminis­tration, predicting that claims completed will actually decline in the immediate future be­cause of new legal require­ments and the more complex nature of today's claims. 
Veterans' groups are up in arms over the delays. "We be­lieve that a crisis situation, ap­proaching a state of emer­gency, currently exists in VA's Compensation and Pension Service," Joseph Violante of Disabled American Veterans testified before Congress. Ap­peals board delays "have be­come unconscionable and intol­erable." 
John Hanson of the Ameri­can Legion said other issues "must not be allowed to over­shadow the true crisis" in the claims process and "the impact this is having on the lives of tens of thousands of veterans and their families." 
"Overall, the system stinks," said Sam Ledwith, 73, a former Marine who fought in the Pa­cific in World War II and in the Korean War. Ledwith, of Valley Stream, N.Y., recently learned that after four years of appeals and an even longer period of hospital visits that the VA was restoring a 40 percent disability payment for hearing loss it had cut in half in the 1980s. 
It's too big, too bureau­cratic," he said. "It just doesn't jell." 
Gary Hickman, director of 

the Compensation and Pension 
Service, said military reduc­
-Thelma Adams. NEW YORK POST

Forget to buy your Senior Formal Ticket? 
Here's your last chance. 
Tickets will be on sale Tuesday, February 22 from 6:00-9:00 p.m. in LeMons lobby at 
SMC and Thursday, February 24 from 6:00-9:00 p.m. at Theodore's in LaFortune. 
THURSDAY FEBRUARY 17TH 7:00 PM SNITE MUSEUM OF ART ADMISSION $2 (noTickets for the dance are $7000• Also, tickets for Second City are still available 
ACCLAIMED DIRECTOR VICTOR NUNEZ WILL PRESENT IDS FILM AND ANSWER QUESTIONS FOLLOWING THE FILM. PRESENTED BY NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION &THEATRE for $1200 per person and champagne glasses for $500 each. 
WITH HELP FROM I.S.L.A. AND GENDER STUDIES 
jump in new claims, to about 150,000 last year, and that vet­erans now tend to file multiple, and often complicated, claims. There have been about 30,000 claims from the Persian Gulf War, including thousands who say they are suffering from the mysterious Persian Gulf syn­drome. 
Board of Veterans Appeals Chairman Charles Cragin said the creation in 1988 of a new 
U.S. court of veterans appeals, while helping define a body of common law for veterans, has added an adversarial, legalistic element to what for half a cen­tury had been a paternalistic system. 
He said new requirements for more comprehensive ex­planations of decisions have also added to the paperwork ­an average file may be four feet high -and slowed down the process. The board of appeals made 45,000 decisions in 1991, but may conclude only 13,000 this year, and if this trend con­tinues it could take more than six years to hear an appeal. 
"We are doing a marvelous job on a veteran-by-veteran ba­sis," Cragin said. "It's a great product, but the waiting list gets longer and longer." 
The VA plans to start incor­porating 43 ideas made last year by a panel that recom­mended a "multitude of changes" in the claims system. Included were the training of more decision-making staffers, computerization of records and rating systems and better coop­eration with the Pentagon. 
Legislation is now pending that would allow single mem­bers of the appeals board to make decisions, rather than the three now required. The VA estimates that could increase decisions by 25 percent. 
est:ablislttm:~ ljfviUia.n .··..··training academy and a pro· 

r.Bac/i Organ j-"estiva{ rrh.e ![ina[ Concert 
"****
WVednesday, feb. 9 


THE MOST BEAUTIFUL 
Tuesday, feb. 15 
AMERICAN MOVIE OF 1993."
Sunday, Feb. 20 
-Dave Kehr. NEW YORK DAILY NEWS 
all concerts are at 
8:00p.m. 
Sacred Heart Basilica 
RADIANT AND INTELLIGENT."
"****
-John Anderson. NEW YORK NEWSDAY 
"AN AMERICAN 


INDEPENDENT GEM. 
Ashley Judd is ajoy to watcli' 

,........ n,., • ., 
"'''·'""" ,.. ,,,,,,,,,,,, .. ,, ',, .;.' ;;,, ;:·:· 
' Beginning in 1 Cold War over, the Pentagon targeted unneeded bases for closing to save billions in de­fense spending. So far, 15 ma­jor bases have closed since the first one, Pease Air Force Base in New Hampshire, sh\lt down 
.· in March 1991 and became the Pease lnternational.·tradeport. ..n.-•J•u" propos-" Ten more are due to cl<lae, this 
-acre Fort Ord year. ···· · · t!:;f 
near·MnlntA·rA , Calif., is for a Fort Douglas-built in 1862 
spaceport for aliens to land, to protect gold shipments from 
The spit"and-polish Army post Confederate raiders -closed 
-where Gen. "Vinegar Joe'' in 1991. Located outside Salt 
Stilwell had his ashes scattered Lake City, it is now part of the University of Utah, which pre· serves the fort's historic build· ings. Chase Field Naval Air Station· provided a· $40 million annual payroll and 30 ·percent of the local economy in Beeville, Texas, until jets made their final flyover and the flag was furled for the last time Feb. 17. 1993. 
Since then, four light indus· tries have opened on t~e 1,172· acre base that the N&vy used to train pilots for 50 ye~rs. The texas prison systemJs'opening 
• aregional headquarters, a 
If you see news happening, call 


The Observer 

at 631-7471 

SOMMER JOBS IN CINCINNATI 
Property Management firm in Cincinnati is looking for individuals to work as landscapers. Work full time maintaining grounds at apartment communi­ties throughout Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky. Send a letter of interest to: Mark Ahern, 255 East Fifth St., Suite 2300, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202. A pre-employment drug test will be required. 
WINNER ·GRAND PRIZE·l993 SUNDANCE FILM FESTIVAL 





"TWO ENTHUSIASTIC THUMBS UP! 
ATERRIFIC MOVIE."
rna 

-Siskel &Ebert 
· cessing center for 4,000 pris­oners. . . ;;II; <· .• ~d plans..ar~Jiearly com· to turn'the runways and into a general aviation airport. By year's end, the place will have the same 2,000­person workforce, and with a higher payroll, 
"What everyone thought would be a death knell for the community is really a tremen­dous opportunity for economic revival," said Brad Arvin, executive director of the Beeville-Bee County Redevelopment Council. ''We've been able to recover and diversify." 
But even with the successful turnaround, Arvin noted that the process is "often contradic· tory, convoluted and most cum­bersome." The prime enemy: federal red tape. 
Rantoul Mayor Katy Podagrosi echoed the same sentiments: "Working with the federal bureaucracy is a night­mare. It's maddening." 
Consider Fort Sheridan, a 696-acre parcel of prime lake­front property in the Chicago suburbs, its ·high bluffs and sandy beaches among the last undeveloped slices of Lake Michigan. 
/ 
-~~-~-~ ~~--~---~ 

The Observer/Alan Smith 

Literary Festival continues 
Author Charles Johnson gives a reading in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium last night. Johnson was the fourth visiting author to speak at the Sophomore Literary Fesitval. 

ii:!!J!!1 UNITED STIJTES
D 
POSTIJL SERVICE 
As an appreciation to our customers, we will be open Monday, February 21 for President's Day! 
There will be an OPEN HOUSE with refreshments and behind-the-scenes TOURS. Also, free postal SOUVENIERS for all customers. 
Join us Monday from 8:00 a.m.-4:30 p.m. 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 




Home building takes a beating 
By JOHN McClAIN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Housing starts got stuck in inclement weather and the rub­ble of the California earthquake in January, according to a gov­ernment report today showing that construction plunged 17.6 percent. 
The Commerce Department said construction of new single­family homes and apartments totaled 1.29 million at a sea­sonally adjusted annual rate, down from a revised 1.57 mil­lion in December -even stronger than the initial 1.54 million estimate. 
Residential construction was off in every region except for the West, where, despite the earthquake, starts edged up 0.3 percent. 
Commerce Secretary Ron Brown said the "transient ef­fect" of last month's severe winter weather "indicate some possibility of a slower first quarter than we might have anticipated. 
"Nonetheless, the economy's underlying momentum remains intact and our confidence in its performance remains strong," he added. 
The January plunge matched a 17.6 percent decline in Jan­uary 1991 and was the steepest since starts fell 26.4 percent in March 1984. Still, starts in Jan­uary were 10.6 percent higher than a year earlier. The De­cember rate was the highest since 1.62 million foundations were laid in January 1989. 
Housing has been one of the stronger elements of the recov-
Study in Central America Summer Session 1994 
-----·1 
j/ : \


lf/1:; 
~; 
/1 I 
~I 


NEOTROPICAL NATURAL HISTORY AND MANAGEMENT OF CENTRAL AMERICAN 
' RESOURCES Information meeting 7:00PM Thurs., Feb. 17, Galvin Auditorium 
Biology 294,3 credits. Prereq.: permission of instructor and BIOS 
156, 196 or 202. The first 2 weeks will take place on the Notre Dame campus as lectures, video tapes, slide presentations and reading assignments. The next 15 days will take place in the field in Belize and Guatemala. The course will be completed back on campus. This course will provide a broad coverage of the flora and fauna of Central America and an introduction to efforts being made to preserve and manage the natural resources of the area. Students will have the opportunity to experience the habitats and see the plants and animals first hand. We will visit selected nature preserves, virgin rain forest, tropical savannas, Mayan ruins and the second largest coral reef in the world. Students will pay tuition plus costs sufficient to cover their expenses while in Central America. 


1.1 
LO 0 

Jan. '93 . . '93 . Jan. '94 
·I 1 .17 IJ 157 II 1.29 I 
Source: U.S. Dept. of Commerce AP 
ery recently. Starts began to surge in August, buoyed by the lowest interest rates in two decades and a steadily improv­ing economy. 
Although rates have inched up from their October lows, they remain affordable for many Americans. They aver­aged 7.21 percent last week, down from more than 8 percent as 1993 began. 
But analysts had said in ad­vance of today's report the re­cent performance would be curbed in January by severe weather and the Los Angeles earthquake. Their consensus was for starts totaling just 1.40 million units. 
"We think that when the weather finally reverts back to normal, the improvement in the housing industry will con­tinue," said Marilyn Schaja, an economist with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. in New York. 
In fact, the National Associa­tion of Home Builders is fore­casting housing starts will total 1.43 million this year. If so, it would be the highest since 1.49 million units in 1988. Starts to­taled 1.29 million last year. 
The forecast found support in the Home Builders latest sur­vey of its membership. The poll found 54 percent of the sample of 375 builders expecting "good" sales of new homes in the next six months, providing an incentive for increased starts to meet demand. 
But the Commerce Depart­ment's report showed applica­tions for building permits ­often a barometer of future ac­tivity -fell 7. 9 percent, the first decline in seven months. 
Single-family starts dropped 15 percent, to a 1.15 million rate from 1.35 million in De­cember. This component com­prises nearly 90 percent of resi­dential construction. 
Apartment construction fell 
33.8 percent, to a 147,000 rate from 222,000 a month earlier. Despite the drop, many analysts believe the multi-family sector, which had been plagued by overbuilding in the late 1980s and subsequent vacancies, has bottomed out. 
Regionally, starts in the Northeast fell 32.8 percent to a 90,000 annual rate, lowest since an 85,000 rate in Febru­ary 1991. They had been down 
2.2 percent in December. 
Construction declined 22.9 percent in the Midwest, to a 262,000 rate after a 3.7 percent advance a month earlier. 
Starts also fell in the South, down 21.6 percent to 565,000, wiping out a 15.9 percent gain the previous month. 
Despite the increase in the West, starts slowed to a 0.3 percent advance, to a 377,000 rate, from the 17.9 percent surge a month earlier. 
Delivery At!i)' (I ~'th Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square (219)277.. 129151408 31 North South Bend, IN 4663 7 Phone Answered 24 hrs.  
Washington Holl University of Notre Dome Wednesday, February 23-Soturdoy, February 26, ot 8:10p.m. Sunday, February 27, ot 2:30 p.m. Tickets: $7 reserved; student ond senior discounts available Wednesday, Thursday ond Sundoy Viso/MosterCard orders: 631-8128 Directed by guest artist Ky m Mo o r e  

~-------------------------------~-­
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tursday, February 17, 1994 
G·reece closes consulate and trade route to Macedonia 
By NIKOS KONSTANDARAS 
Associated Press 
ATHENS, Greece 

Angered by Western recog­nition of the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia, Greece closed its consulate in the Macedonian capital and cut off the country's main trade route Wednesday. 
Greece claims Macedonia has designs on its northern province, also called Macedo­nia, and says these claims are reflected in the country's name, flag and symbols, which Athens says are historically Greek. 
Referring to Macedonia by the name of its capital Skopje, Socialist Premier Andreas Pa­pandreou said Greece has run out patience. 
"From the disintegration of former Yugoslavia, and the cre­ation of the Skopje problem, until today, Skopje has not taken a single step showing moderation or good sense," he told a Cabinet meeting. 
"The Greek government has decided to suspend the activi­ties of its consulate tn Skopje, and the suspension of goods to and from Skopje through the port of Salonica, excepting those that are absolutely neces­sary for humanitarian reasons, such as food and medicines," he said. 
Greece has no diplomatic re­lations with Macedonia; its con­sulate there was left over from the breakup of Yugoslavia. 
Most of landlocked Macedo­nia's trade and fuel passes through Salonica, about 43 miles from its southern border. Alternative routes through Al­bania and Bulgaria are far longer and are over poor roads. 
Macedonia says it has no claims on Greek territory, but Greece has demanded that Macedonia make gestures of good will to prove this. 
Macedonian leaders were meeting Wednesday night to discuss Greece's action. 
"Greece is responsible for 
every deterioration in relations between the two countries," Premier Branko Crvenkovski said in a statement. 
"The Greek government wants to exert economic and political pressure on Macedonia by using its (geographic) posi­tion. Macedonia has no access to the sea. 
"The one-sided and unac­ceptable measures fr-om Greece are very worrying, since they are contrary to the U.N. Secu­rity Council's resolution, which urges Greece and Macedonia to overcome their differences through negotiations and help bring peace and stability to the region," he said. 
Papandreou indicated that last week's recognition of Macedonia by the United States played a role in his decision Wednesday. 
Tens of thousands of Greeks denounced Washington in a demonstration Tuesday in Salonica. 
Greece also had been an­
gered when six of its partners in the 12-nation European Union earlier recognized "The Former Yugoslav Republic Of Macedonia," as the country . was named temporarily when it was admitted to the U.N. Gen­eral Assembly in April. 
Papandreou said that be­cause of the recognition, the Skopje government "assumed the false perception that it could ignore Greece's posi­tions." 
"As their intransigent stand continued, more and more countries, among them mem­bers of the European Union and recently the United States, ex­tended diplomatic recognition," Papandreou told members of his Cabinet. 
The United States and other EU nations said recognition of Macedonia was aimed at con­tributing to the fledgling coun­try's stability. 
But Greece's sanctions likely will contribute to economic hardships in the already im­poverished nation of 2 million people. 
Macedonia sits uneomfort­ably on the edge of the conflicts in other parts of former Yu­goslavia and struggles with a restive ethnic Albanian minor­ity. 
Early in this century, Greece, Serbia and Bulgaria allied in a war with the Ottoman Empire that forced the Turks to give up Macedonia. 
The former allies then squab­bled over how to divide it up, leading to a second war that ended with each of those coun­tries getting parts of Macedonia. 
Western analysts fear its neighbors -Serb-dominated Yugoslavia, Albania, Bulgaria and Greece -could be dragged into a conflict if Macedonia ex­plodes. 
The United Nations has placed its first pre-emptive force in history there: 1,000 soldiers, including 300 Ameri­cans. 
South Korea seems calm in face of nuclear tension 
By LAURA KING 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea 

Lee Woo-jung, a gangly 15­year-old, looks like a carefree kid anywhere, clowning with friends, teetering along on roller skates. When his voice cracks, he tries to cover it up with a boisterous laugh. 
But the roller rink is actual­ly an emergency military land­ing strip. The half-mile stretch of concrete, known as Yoido Plaza, sits in the heart of Seoul, surrounded by glitter­ing financial towers and gov­ernment buildings. 
The airfield-turned-playing field, filled with bicyclists and skaters, is a metaphor for daily life in South Korea: all noise and jostle, with a rarely acknowledged underpinning of fear. 
For most South Koreans, the threat of war is a lifelong legacy, a permanent psychic backdrop. For decades, they've scurried for shelter in civil-defense drills. Black-and­white photos of the 1950-53 Korean war mix with child­hood memories. 
After a nearly yearlong con­frontation, North Korea this week bowed to international pressure and agreed to out­side inspections of its declared nuclear program. 
But the deal does not cover two suspect sites, and inspec­tors said it left unanswered the key question of whether the hard-line communist state is seeking to build atomic weapons. 
The United States and oth­ers have threatened to seek 
U.N. sanctions if the Pyongyang government refus­es to prove its nuclear pro­gram is peaceful. North Korea says it would consider sanc­tions an act of war. 
Lee Woo-jung, breathless from skating and shouting, tugged distractedly at his denim jacket when he was asked about North Korea. 
"What I worry most about is my college entrance examinations," he said. "I study hard. But sometimes adults say if there's a war, we won't be going to college any­way." 


Two top Zhirinovsky allies quit 
By ALEXANDER MERKUSHEV 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Two top members of Vladimir Zhirinovsky's ultrana­tionalist party quit its parlia­mentary faction Wednesday, citing "ideological" differences with their power-hungry leader. 
One of the defectors, Viktor Kobelev, accused Zhirinovsky of extremism, alienating Rus­sia's allies and usurping power in the Liberal Democratic Party, which got the most votes in the December parliamentary elections. 
The defections appear to mark the emergence of a rift between Zhirinovsky and mod­erate members of the party op­posed to his reliance on ex­treme nationalism and heavy­handed approach to Russia's problems. 
Late last year, Andrei Za­vidia, Zhirinovsky's running mate in the 1991 presidential elections who helped finance his campaigns, also broke away, saying he did not agree with Zhirinovsky's "fascist views" or attempts to "impose dictatorship" within the party. 
Kobelev and his associate, LOP lawmaker Alexander Pronin, appeared to be desert­ing Zhirinovsky on similar grounds. 
"We are quitting for purely ideological reasons," said Ko­belev, the organizer of Zhiri­novsky's election campaign and until now the No. 2 man in the Liberal Democratic Party. 
"I oppose the policy our leader has pursued over the past few months. We ought to stick by the platform that gained us nearly 12.5 million votes," Kobelev said in an in­terview. 

In the Dec. 12 elections, Rus­sia's voters cast more ballots for Zhirinovsky's misleadingly­named Liberal Democratic Party than for any other party or coalition. The vote, however, is largely seen as a protest against painful economic poli­cies by President Boris Yeltsin's government. 
Kobelev blasted Zhiri­novsky's "extremism, interfer­ence in the internal affairs of some countries and irrespon­sible statements unauthorized by the party." 





The Observer • EARTHQUAKE NEWS page 7 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Assistant Photo Editor Saint Mary's Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Accent Photo Editor 
Please submit a two-page personal statement to Scott Mendenhall by 5:00 p.m., Friday, February 18. For more information contact Scott at 631-5323 

Quake reconstruction underway 
By DEBORAH HASTINGS 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGLES 

One month after the Northridge earthquake, the ini­tial adrenaline rush of fear and bravado has worn off. 
Yes, Southern Californians who were jolted awake by the Jan. 17 quake are well into their reconstruction journey. 
Collapsed freeways and houses are being fixed. Furniture and other belongings are being replaced. 
But frozen emotions also are beginning to thaw. 
Without warning, in un­guarded moments, tears come, hearts pound and residents realize with resounding dread that this mighty mess isn't over. Not by a long shot. 
Behind mind-numbing statis­tics of 61 dead, 9,000 injured and an estimated $20 billion in damage stand the immeasur­able statistics of fear, grief, loss and inconvenience. 
West Los Angeles psychia­trist Jim Burnett knows first­hand, as well as through patients, just how traumatic life can be these days. 
He lost his office, and every­thing in it, to the earthquake and a wrecking ball. The badly damaged Barrington Building housing his 10-year practice was demolished days after the quake and no one was allowed inside to retrieve belongings. 
In Los Angeles alone, 55,236 structures were damaged by the quake. More than 10,000 of those are unfit for habitation. 
"If it wasn't in my briefcase, it doesn't exist," Burnett said. Gone are all patient records, of­fice furniture and his medical library. 
He has since moved, but re­constructing patient records is frustrating. 
"It always keeps me up at night, trying to think of some 

in the Hesburgh Library at pm, reception to follow featured in the 1994 festival: Join us this evening for the final reading in the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
oyHarjo~ 
tiny detail I might have missed about my patients," Burnett said. "Because if I miss some­thing, it could be detrimental to the welfare of my patients." 
In therapy sessions, Burnett said, many of his patients ex­hibit signs of post-traumatic stress. "Very often people get extremely functional, or numb, right after a disaster. And over time, you begin to thaw. Some feelings come through. And ev­eryone's been so damned scared." 
The Castillo family repre­sents five of the estimated 21,850 people to seek shelter from the American Red Cross. Herbert, his wife and their chil­dren -two girls ages 6 and 5 and a 5-month-old son-have been living at Belmont High School for two weeks. 
Ten Red Cross shelters are still open this week with 688 residents. The Castillos are crammed together with strangers, some of them street people taking advantage of the Red Cross' open-door policy. 
"It's like hell," the 29-year­old Castillo said. "They fight all the time. They steal each other's things." 
The Castillos moved there because their apartment was uninhabitable. "My wife was scared to stay there," Castillo said. "So we come here." 
Castillo, a house painter, is missing work because his equipment was destroyed. The Red Cross, he said, helped him scrape together enough money to find a new apartment. 
He hopes to move this week, but plans to return to the shel­ter -to work. 
"They helped me," he said. "And now I've got to help them." 
It is Peter Hidalgo's job to put the best spin on Metrolink ridership figures. Since the earthquake, his work has been easy. 
Before Jan. 17, an average of 9,500 people daily rode on the 15-month-old system's four routes. That more than tripled, to 31,000, the week after the quake. 
Four broken freeways affect­
~N Esp~ ~~ 1):
--...; 0 
~ Spanish Mass r­
domingo, 20 de Febrero de 1994 
11:30 a.m. 

BREEN-PHILLIPS CHAPEL 
Celebrante Padre Richard V. Warner, c,s.c. 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
ing 1 million drivers were responsible for such a drastic change in the commuting behavior of car-addicted Californians. But even freeway collapses weren't enough to keep people on trains. 
Metrolink ridership has dropped to about 19,000 daily. Still, Hidalgo said, those num­bers are something to cele­brate. 
"We will be doing well if we can retain 10 percent of those first-time riders," he said. "Long-distance commuter train service is a novelty in Southern California. People enjoy the convenience of driving alone and that's our biggest chal­lenge." 
Duane Sawyer is a prime ex­ample. 
The 40-year-old computer analyst has about a 43-mile commute to work from his Santa Clarita home. He has had to spend two hours getting to work, riding Metrolink to Glen­dale and then van pooling to his job in Irwindale. 
"It's good we have this alternative, but it's about dou­bled my commuting time," Sawyer said. ''I'm going back to driving at the end of the month." 
In the Los Angeles Unified School District, 5,311 students at two campuses are still with­out classrooms. 
Those students were given an unexpected vacation. District officials have not yet determined whether the spring term will be extended to make up for lost time. 
At El Camino Real High School in Woodland Hills, Principal Joyce Washington said voluntary workshops are being held in undamaged class­
rooms  until  the  campus  
reopens.  
"The students  are  very  

thankful that we are having this program," Washington said. "Staying at home and watching television all day is a real drag." 
"We have aftershocks going all the time," she said. "So it's constant movement. It's going on all the time. It's never really stopped." 
All Are Welcome 
tonight!!! 

page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 17, 1994 
U.N. says warring sides to meet NATO gun deadline 
By ROBERT H. REID 
Associated Press 

SARAJEVO 
U.N. commanders announced pledges by Bosnia's warring parties Wednesday to move their heavy guns from Sarajevo or put them under U.N. control by NATO's deadline of midnight Sunday. 
NATO threatened last week to order air attacks on any howitzers, mortars or anti-air­craft guns not withdrawn from the city. Members of the alliance have indicated it would accept the weapons being put under strict U.N. control that prevented combatants from retaking possession. 
Gen. Jean Cot, chief of U.N. peacekeepers in former Yu­goslavia, said he received pledges to meet the deadline from leaders of both the Bosnian Serbs who have be­sieged the city for -22 months and Bosnia's Muslim-led gov­ernment. 
"There are guarantees that as of the 20th of February, weapons from the Serb side and the Bosnian side will be under our control," Cot told re­porters at Sarajevo's airport. 
But there were few outward signs of compliance. U.N. offi­cials confirmed no new weapons had been placed un­der their control since Sunday, when 36 were reported to have been surrendered. 
U.N. officials said the Serbs moved some guns away from Sarajevo but would not give any figures. Serb troops were esti­mated to have about 500 heavy weapons ringing the city. The government army has far fewer. 
Although both sides have generally lived up to a week-old truce around Sarajevo, military commanders in Bosnia are no­torious for reneging on promis­es. 
"This is a tremendous gam­ble," Cot said of the U.N.-NATO effort to bring peace to the city. 
Tokyo has mild response to trade pressure, options 
By PETER LANDERS 
Associated Press 

TOKYO 
As Washington turns up the heat with charges about closed Japanese markets, Tokyo offi­cials are playing it cool, appar­ently worried harsh words would raise the likelihood of a damaging trade war. 
After U.S. Trade Representa­tive Mickey Kantor used unusu­ally harsh language in accusing Japan of breaking promises to open its cellular phone market, the word for the day in Tokyo Wednesday was "reisei" -lit­erally "cool and quiet." 
"From the standpoint of pre­serving and developing friendly U.S.-Japan relations, our coun­try believes both Japan and the United States should react cool­ly and quietly," said a state­ment by telecommunications minister Takenori Kanzaki. 
Kanzaki disputed Kantor's accusation Tuesday that Japan had not lived up to a 1989 pact to give Motorola Inc. access to its cellular phone market. 
But chief government spokesman Masayoshi Take­mura said Tokyo wasn't going to do anything until the United States decides on specific sanc­tions on Japanese products over the phone dispute. 
About the farthest Japanese officials say they're rllady to go is to appeal any U.S. retaliatory steps to the world free trade body, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
The Motorola case was sepa­rate from the broader talks that collapsed last Friday over Japan's refusal to accept a U.S. demand for numerical goals to measure success. 
Al:l Ventura: Pel Deteclive(P613):12:ll, 2:45, 5:1,5~ 7:30, 9:30 
Blank Clleck(t'ti): 12:15, 2:31!, 4:45, 1:()0,9:15 Bllnk(R): 1:45, 4:31!, 7:30,10:00 Grumpy Old Men(PG13): 1:15,4:15,6:45, 9:00 My Father Tile Hero(PG): 12:45, 3:00, 5:00, 7:15, 9:45 Pbiladelpllia(PG13): 1:30,4:45,7:15, 10:00 
iron Wiii(PGl:4:30,7:00, 9:30 Mn. Doublfire!PG13):4:15, 7:15, 10:00 My Giriii(PG):2:45, 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 


"If it works, we will all be win­ners. If it fails, we will all be losers. It is a gamble for peace. The time has come for the city to be opened. It must be freed from fear or death." 
Fighting has continued in other parts of the former Yu­goslav republic, and U.N. offi­cials hope a successful cease­fire in Sarajevo will help bring peace elsewhere. 
NATO's ultimatum was prompted by a mortar shell that killed 68 people in a Sarajevo market Feb. 5. Serbs have been widely blamed, but U.N. investi­gators said Wednesday it was impossible to determine who fired the shell. 
A worker was killed on a downtown street by a sniper Wednesday, becoming the first civilian slain in the city since the truce began Thursday. Bosnian Serbs claimed previ­ously that two of their soldiers were killed during the cease­fire. 
About 10,000 people have been killed in the city since mi­nority Serbs rebelled when Muslims and Croats led Bosnia into secession from Serb-domi­nated Yugoslavia in April 1992. About 200,000 people are dead or missing across Bosnia. 

The Bosnian Serbs' military chief, Ratko Mladic, suggested Tuesday that his artillery would not be withdrawn from around Sarajevo if that would jeopar­dize "our people who have al­ways lived on these territories." 
But Cot said he had warned both Mladic and the Bosnian government commander, Rasim Delic, of the gravity of the NATO deadline. 
"I can tell you both generals said they understood this," Cot said. 
U.S. officials said in Washington on Tuesday that heavy weapons would have to be moved at least 13 miles from the center of the city, be turned over to U.N. troops or be made inoperable. 
Lt. Gen. Sir Michael Rose, the 

U.N. commander for Bosnia, said NATO's intent will be met. He said his definition of U.N. control is that if either side want weapons returned, "they will have to fight to get them back." 
The U.N. commander for Sarajevo, Lt. Gen. Andre Soubirou, said three sites had been designated for the collec­tion and monitoring of heavy weapons -two on the Serb side and one on the Bosnian government side. 
About 170 soldiers from a Nordic battalion in the northern Bosnian city of Tuzla arrived Wednesday to help the 1,400 
U.N. peacekeepers based in Sarajevo. 
A U.N. spokesman, Lt. Col. Bill Aikman, said commanders wanted to bring in 2,500 to 3,000 more soldiers. They hope the additional troops can come from countries that already have contingents in Bosnia, he said. 
Mandela announces concessions 
Japan continues to reject that demand. But Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa said Wednesday that Japan had the responsibility to take the initiative in trimming its nearly $60 billion trade surplus with the United States. 
"We would like to find the way toward a compromise as quickly as possible," Hosokawa said. 
That surplus is still getting bigger, according to figures announced Wednesday. Japan's overall trade surplus in January rose 17 percent over the same month a year earlier to $6.11 billion. 
The prime minister was re­portedly ready to assemble his top negotiators on Thursday to discuss steps to placate the Clinton administration. 
But Hosokawa hardly gave the impression of having sleep­less nights over the issue. In fact, over the past few days he has been giving a good deal of attention to the unrelated ques­tion of whether to reshuflle his Cabinet -a move that may be even touchier than trade talks given the fractious nature of his ruling coalition. 

By DONNA BRYSON 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 

African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela an­nounced major concessions to­day to an opposition alliance in hopes of avoiding a boycott of national elections and reducing the threat of civil war. 
'We must treat the threat of civil war seriously. That is why we have gone out of our way to make these concessions," Mandela told a news confer­ence after an emergency meet­ing of the group's policy-mak­ing National Executive Commit­tee. 
The ANC dropped its demand for a single-ballot sys­tem in the April 26-28 election to end white-minority rule and called for multiparty negotia­tions to be reconvened Monday to approve the decision, Mandela said. 
This marks an important concession to the opposition Freedom Alliance, a coalition of anti-ANC white and black groups who have vowed to boy­cott the election and raised threats of political violence. The Alliance has said voters should cast two ballots in April -one for a national Parliament and another for regional legisla­tures. 
This would give small, re­gionally based parties such as those represented in the Al­liance a chance of establishing power bases in their areas of support. A single ballot would have virtually assured the huge ANC a majority of seats in both the national and provincial leg­islatures. 
Mandela also sought to reas­sure the Alliance by saying that the new government will not substantially change the post­apartheid constitution drafted in multiparty negotiations. The Alliance said it fears the docu­ment will be rewritten by the next government, which is ex­pected to be dominated by the ANC. 
Even with the announce­ment, it was not certain the Alliance members would agree to take part in the vote. 
The parties, llld by pro­apartheid whites and the lulu­dominated Inkatha Freedom Party, also are demanding in­dependent homelands for their supporters to avoid living under ANC rule. 
The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Advertising Design Personnel 
Applicants should have a strong interest in graphic design or commercial art; a knowledge of Macintosh graphics soft­ware, including Aldus FreeHand and QuarkXPress, is help­ful but not absolutely required. Applicants should submit a resume and 1-2 page personal statement to Ryan Malayter by 5 p.m. Friday, February 18, 1994. For additional infor­mation, please contact Ryan at 634-2031. 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 17, 1994 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .................... .Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor.............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrra· tion of either insrirution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present ilie views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com· munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  63I-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  63I-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  63I-454I  Day Editor/Production  63I-5303  
Business Office  631·5313  Advertising  63 I -6900/8840  
Sporn  631-4543  Systems/OTS  63I-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  63I-7471  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR • 
Students voted for possibility of change Election can be impetus for 
Dear Editor: 
._.,P,~·:-,-·-----------------------.. students to implement change 
We write this letter in response to Kevin Kriner's let­
Dear Editor: should, to their utmost ability, ter ("Student Government 
At least now there is some try to pass their platforms­requires more 'serious' lead­
discussion concerning the however difficult that may be. ers," The Observer, Feb.15, 
future of Notre Dame and Who gets the vote? This isn't a 1994). 
Student Government with the dictatorship, right? I hope all On Wednesday, February 9th, 
election of Hungeling and the voting students weren't 1994, over fifty percent of the 
Orsagh. A glimmer of hope that casting their ballots for the student body voted for the 
the student mind of Notre group with the best ideas. We Hungeling/Orsagh ticket. Mr. 
Dame is not completely Dead. all saw where The Guide went Kriner, we were two students 
Now, lets see if that mind can and what it can be used for ... of that fifty percent who voted 
make the body move out of With phrases such as, "we intelligently, discerningly, and 
study mode into action. believe our ideas to be the yes, seriously, for a change. 
Anyone who has worked in best," and "we have the experi­We feel that several of your 
any form of student govern­ence," ringing in my head, I arguments against our new stu­
ment knows that strong leader­
dent body leaders and their 
ship is important, but it does 
supporters were both unfound­
it has been longing for-the kind Orsagh were trying to make by not necessarily come from the 
'without any bit-
ed and offensive. 
of change that encourages stu­using the issue of male and top. Power by the people, for 
First of all, we didn't vote for dents to be individuals. female relationships as a sym­the people. Our Student terness over the Dead. Secondly, we didn't Mr. Kriner, why are you so bol of the need for students to Government is simply a vehicle the loss, the other
vote for free football tickets. for action to be taken by our­
afraid of Dave and Matt? They take the initiative and responsi­
For us, the platform of tickets should, to their
are just regular Notre Dame bility to face decisions such as selves and we decide where it 
Hungeling and Orsagh was not students. They are approach­these on their own. We are col­takes us. utmost ability, try toabout these two issues, it was 
able. They are accessible. They lege students capable of being If you truly feel that these 
pass their
about the underlying need for gave us their phone number. independent and making good guys are going to do a poor job, change on this campus. They are not politicians and choices. We must have trust in start a petition to impeach platforms-howeverAlthough we are only fresh­they refuse to be puppets for the integrity and significance of them. But, if you understand 
difficult that may be.'
men. we have both felt frustrat­that it really does not matter
the administration. our beliefs. As students, weed with the seemingly uniform Contrary to your belief that must trust our own voice. who the figurehead is, and how viewpoints of many Notre Dame this campaign was a "populari­For us, the election of the system works, take some know that the "serious" politi­students and their leaders. 
ty stunt/Joke" and an opportu­Hungeling and Orsagh was a positive action. Yes you, the cians of a few weeks ago will 
Where is the desire to chal­ordinary student can do some­turn into activists now. Don't
nity for two fellow students to confirmation of trust... trust inlenge the expected? Where is 
destroy organized student gov­the importance of our convic­thing. But the experienced hamper the position you tried the courage to break from the ernment, we feel that the elec­tions. Granted, we may not be leader should pave the way and so hard to attain, help it anyconformity? tion of Hungeling and Orsagh getting two DART times or The the student can demand just way you can. 
You mentioned in your letter that. "Radicals" have come and
will foster an atmosphere on Pub. We may not be getting the 
that "It [the leadership of Hopefully the promises of the gone at Notre Dame and Mary
this campus in which students Grateful Dead or free footballHungeling and Orsagh] will 
can feel comfortable voicing tickets. What we are getting is other candidates were not rum­is still standing on the Dome. 
probably embarrass the opinions that they have previ­the proof that things can bles from the belly of a fat Things don't really ever changeUniversity, much like it will ously felt were unwelcome. change here at Notre Dame if politician. I know they were not around here, and they won't if embarrass me." You are obvi­Hungeling and Orsagh are we as students have enough just blowing smoke, or full of no one actually tries anything.ously concerned with an image quoted as saying, " ... student faith in each other to bring it hot air. For most of the ideas It seems that at least 50% of us that you feel Notre Dame stu­were ready for some change
government will not get people about. We are gaining courage were sound, and can be imple­
dents must project. We are 
laid, nor can we get students a to, as you put it Mr. Kriner, mented. It is understood that and didn't really expect the Notre Dame students. We are date." Mr. Kriner, you then are "throw off the balance." We are they don't need to be the campus to become Dead. Your not embarrassed, and appar­quoted saying, "This has noth­gaining courage in ourselves. President to get them passed. don't have to throw blows to 
ently, neither are the other fifty These people know what upsets fight the power, but you c'an
ing to do with the issues and ANNE MARIE DELUCA
percent of those who voted with the system and how they can buck the system. 
how they pertain to students." MAUREEN J. SCHUTZ 
us. Why should we be embar­complete their movements. CHRIS HIRAI 
Exactly. Freshmen
rassed? We have just given Senior
We feel that was precisely the Farley Hall Without any bitterness over 
Notre Dame the kind of change the loss, the other tickets Planner Hall
point that Hungeling and 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
IAJ&U, 7HAT'5 WHAT'S AM/3RJCA HAS AL.­
ORIS THAT
G!<CATA80UT TH/5 WAY5 BE&N 7H& PLACb AUS7RA£./A r 
caJNTl(Y, COWNU. WH81<& HAR!}&NW 
YtAH, Y&AH, 
((Hearts and thoughts,
IT'SA LANJ?OF CR/MINA£.S, 7H/3 50JM 
I'M TH/NK­
NW 8/:6/NNJNGS ... OfHUMAN/7'1, {{}UW 
INGOF 

they fade, fade away." 
6GTA FRESH '.i!Af<Tl 
-.---...llll':ill JJIJS77<A/...IA I 
-Eddy Vetter 


ACCENT
page 10 Thursday, February 17, 1994 
SCENE SCREEN 
§pielber-!! and .,chindler-'§ Li§t~ de§er-ve Academ~ l2eC()!!niti()n 
JON THORN 


;;HI 
Photo courtesy Universal City Studios 

commandant, Amon Goeth (Ralph Fiennes), who sits in his balcony, shooting the Jews in the camp below him indiscrimi­nately. 
Fiennes' portrayal of Goeth is one of the greatest pieces of acting I have ever seen on film. 
He is not merely some hateful Nazi; he is the embodiment of the twisted motives of the Nazi party, the warped sense of the world that war creates and the confusion over what power re­ally is. 
In a great scene between Neesom and Fiennes, the two discuss the nature of power. 
It is a revealing scene, show­ing the audience, finally, how Schindler has changed and showing us how pathetically confused and twisted Goeth and the Nazis are. 
These subtle moments crafted by the actors and the director are what make the film so astonishingly touching and telling. 
Attention to detail and the highest level of craftsmanship shine through not only in the acting and direcition, but also in the lighting and cinematography. 
Some of the critics in the film world worried that Steven Spielberg would make "Schindler's List" into a pol­ished gem, devoid of the dark, rough quality necessary to tell the tale. 
The carefully lit black-and­white film was Spielberg's first step towards making a film en­dowed with a gritty quality. 
He also avoided placing the camera on a crane and making long, sweeping "Hollywood" camera shots. Instead, numer­ous times, Spielberg himself held the camera. 
He turns his camera lens into the eyes of a Jew lost among other confused Jews on the street. He turns his camera into an observer of the horrific. 
Steven Spielberg has side­stepped the apprehensive crit­
ics and somehow fulfilled their prophecies. He has made the most beauti­fully ugly film I have ever seen. 
When the film ends with Schindler's successfully crafted list and plans, you are left only with a haunting sense that the Holocaust is one of the greatest tragedies in the history of mankind. 
Though he has been criticized by some for dredging up the harsh memories of the Holocaust, I cannot see how he can be faulted in today's world, where Neo-Nazism exists and where some people don't believe the Holocaust ever hap­pened. 
It is sad to think that the peo­ple who most need to see this film never will. 
Steven Spielberg has come a long way as a director in his dealing with the Nazis. The burning up of the Nazi swastika on the crate that held The Ark of the Covenant in "Raiders of the Lost Ark" has been replaced by something more subtle. 
It has been replaced by a film, dedicated by Spielberg to the Jews who died in the Holocaust, that warns us of the terrible deeds man can (and has) inflicted upon his fellow man. 
In this world where indiscriminate slaughter occurs daily in Bosnia, where Neo­Nazism is on the rise, Steven Spielberg wants us to remem­ber lest we forget. 
Perhaps Spielberg, Neesom, Kingsley, Fiennes and all those who worked on "Schindler's List" can have an effect on these irrational hatreds direct­ed at innocents, Jewish or oth­erwise. 
Perhaps Spielberg, haunted as he must be, hopes at the very least that the pennies will never sound near another Jewish boy in study hall. 
Not to be forgotten, but re­membered lest we forget. 
Steven Spielberg has re­counted in interviews how, as a child, the other students in study hall used to throw pen­nies at him because he was a Jew. 
In high school his senior year he was physically accosted, again, because he was a Jew. 
Perhaps it was lingering memories that kept Spielberg from making "Schindler's List" earlier in his career. 
Maybe it was those same memories, now faded to black and white, that Steven Spielberg could now not avoid. 
It is too simple to heap acco­lades on "Schindler's List," the latest, and most critically ac­claimed, of Steven Spielberg's films. 
"Schindlers' List" is more than twelve Academy Award nominations. This film tran­scends the usual quality of films that fill the movie theaters. 
"Schindler's List" is a work of art and an obvious labor of love. 
Very few times in my life have I attended the screening of a film and left the theater in si­lence, surrounded by a speech­less audience. 
"Schindler's List" leaves audi­ences speechless because the acting, directing, lighting, and cinematography all are the ulti­mate expression of unity in exe­cution. 
In a disgustingly ironic twist, it is also a story of unity in execution in the worst sense. 
The central focus of the film, the tragic story of the Nazis' genocide and its senselessness and sickness, revolves around Oskar Schindler (Liam Neesom). 
Liam Neesom plays Oskar Schindler to perfection. There is not a wasted word or unnecessary glance in his per­formance. 
"Schindler's List" is the story of a man who sympathizes with Nazis, carouses with them, is a womanizer and seems dedicat­ed to making money above all other things. 
It is too simple, however, to sum up the character of Oskar Schindler, a Czechoslovakian from Brinnlitz. as merely that of a heartless enterprising busi­nessman. 
The viewer's first glimpses at Schnidler make them believe such a characterization, but only the man's greater compas­sion is revealed. 
Schindler only hires Jews at his factory because he can pay them less and make a larger profit than if he hired Poles. 
'Schindler's List' is a work of art and an obvious labor of love. 
Schindler's transformation from manipulative businessman to hero begins when his work­ers are forced to shovel snow as opposed to come to his factory to work. 
Then one of the Jews working for Schindler, a gracious one­armed man is exterminated by German soldiers during the snow shoveling. 
At first, Schindler seems most angry with the Nazi authorities because he has lost a worker and he has lost money. 
Again another situation makes us question the charac­ter of Schindler in the early portion of the film. 
His assistant, ltzhak Stern (Ben Kingsley) forgets his work papers one day en route to the factory. Apprehended by the Nazis, Stern is placed on a train headed to his doom. 
Schindler intercepts Stern's course towards a definite demise, using his sauve, ma­nipulative manners to free Stern in what is one of the comedic and yet still poignant moments of the film. 
Schindler informs Stern that his concern for Stern was not necessarily humanitarian: he needed Stern to run the factory. But the viewer begins to see the emerging heroism in Schindler. 
The most notable step in Schindler's transformation to sensitivity comes when, perched on his horse above Krakow in the hills, he witness­es the Nazis destroy Krakow and its inhabitants, rounding up Jews for the slaughterhouse. 
Amid all of this choas, a little girl wanders frightened. 
This powerful moment is cer­tain to become one of the most memorable scenes in cinematic history. 
Spielberg gives the girl all the symbolic tragedy of the Holocaust as she wanders lost, frightened and surrounded by death. 
One wonders if Spielberg felt like that little girl as he sat in study hall, the pennies landing on and about him. 
I wonder if he felt like that lit­tle girl, confused and fright­ened, as he tried again and again to hand "Schindler's List" over to other directors such as Martin Scorsese and Sydney Pollack because he was unsure of his own ability to tell the tale. 
Whatever it is about that little girl, whatever it is about her lit­tBye red dress in an otherwise black and white film, Steven Spielberg has managed to say so much with so little. Viewers of this film will be haunted by t 
hat red dress. 
Perhaps it was such an inci­dent that made Schindler's transformation complete; per­haps it was something else. 
Spielberg is too sly, too bright to directly say why Schindler changes, which makes the change all the more compelling. 
With the Jews' deportation to the labor camps, Schindler starts down the path that will save the lives of over 1,100 men, women and children. 
In the labor camp, he will hatch a scheme with the camp 
Speaking for his now-liberated fellow workers, ltzhak Stern (Ben Kingsly, center) asks a Soviet cavalryman, "What do we do now?" only to be asked in return, "Isn't that a village over there?" in 'Schindler's List.' 
ACCENT
Thursday, February 17, 1994 page 11 
SCENE SCREEN JON THORN 
DON'T 'BLINK': IT MIGHT BE DEADLY 
"Blink" doesn't pretend to be more than entertain­ment. Unlike "Schindler's List," it doesn't presume to undertake the task of changing people's minds and hearts. 
At most, "Blink" tries to give the sighted some indica­tion as to what blindness undone would be like. 
The fllm accomplishes this while staying true to it's thriller genre, and as the advertisement states, "Illusion. Deception. Murder. In the Blink of an eye things are not what they seem." 
To say that "Blink" is merely entertainment would be unfair. There are moments in the film that may well enlighten audience members. 
The most memorable is when Emma Brody (Madeleine Stowe) has just regained her sight and asks inquisitively whether the woman interviewing her about her regained sight is pretty. 
"Do people tell you that you're pretty?," Emma asks softly. Perhaps this is what makes this film just a bit better than the usual thriller. In fact, Blink is a "sleeper" film that is almost as entertaining as this summer's "The Fugitive." 
The basic premise of "Blink" is that a woman named Emma Brody, an Irish folk musician, was blinded by her mother at an early age. · 
After her vision is restored with a cornea transplant, she witnesses a killer leaving her apartment building. 
The detective, played by Aidan Quinn attempts to un­ravel the mysterious murders that have been happen­ing. 
As Stowe's character begins to mature, problems with her regained sight are played out rather elegantly and not as cliches. 
Most notably. because her eyes are sensitive, there is a beautiful scene where she has filled her apartment with lit candles for light as opposed to bright lamps 
and light bulbs. The cinematography of this scene and others puts this film a step above the usual thriller. 
In the beginning of "Blink," the camera shows a dis­torted point of view, meant to represent Emma's point of view. 
In this fashion, the audience will occasionally become frustrated, trying to figure out what precisely they are watching transpire. 
I found this part of the film particularly well done since that same sense of frustration the viewer feels undoubtedly doesn't approach the frustration that a blind person who has just regained their sight must feel. 
Another example of the quality of filming occurs dur­ing the credits. 
We've all experienced those first few moments in a darkened movie theater as our eyes adjust. Blink's credits play off of this, letting our eyes fully adjust, then having the title credit come onto the screen in a bright flash. 
The bright flash acts not unlike a camera's flash and we, appropriately, blink. 
Another nice touch is a two-way mirror scene where Emma tries to identify the murderer and the faces keep shifting in and out of focus. One moment they look like the killer, and the next they don't. 
This element of the plot, her vision being a liability as a reliable witness, is touched on several times in the fllm. 
"Blink" is not just fancy camera work, however. Madeleine Stowe and Aidan Quinn both give credible performances, playing the smoldering undercurrent of romantic possibilities very well. 
There are also a number of interesting conversations about soap, which is a key element in apprehending the murderer. 
At first glance, "Blink" seems like a conventional thriller; to a certain extent, it is. But "Blink" goes beyond this, offering a decent plot and enough interesting twists to entertain. 
blink BLINK blink~ BLINK blink BLINK blink BLINK "-.-; BLINK blink 
Dance iiJto Saint Mary's 

Hungarian State Folk Ensemble dazzles with choral singing 
By JENNIFER LEWIS According to a review in The Accent Writer Chicago Tribune, "Rarely do so many virtuosos share a, 
Hungarian folk dancers are stage ... offering a startling les­..... 
coming to Saint Mary's. son in what great folk art is all 
/

Under the direction of the about." 
l

world famous artistic director The Hungarian State Folk 
V 
,,/

Sandor Timar, seventy dancers, Ensemble will performon stage chorus members and musicians at the Moreau i jin the Hugarian State Folk Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium Ensemble will perform at on Fri., Feb. 18 at 8 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets are $12 for adults, 
The program consists of with discounts available for 
I II

amazing dance, dazzling cos-senior citizens, students and 
. tumes and extraordinary choral groups. singing. The orchestra uses tra­To order tickets or for more ditional Hungarian instruments information call the Saint such as the bagpipe, shepherd's Mary's College box office at flute, bit gardon and hurdy 284-4626. Visa. Discover and 
rl\ , 
gurdy. Mastercard orders will be 
"The entire ethnic back­accepted. ground of the program should "It should be a very colorful be interesting," said Lisa and lively program," said Peppers, assistant director of Peppers. "Definitely a program internal events. for all ages." 





FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. abama's Jamal Faulkner said. Arkansas coach Nolan ''And they definitely got it." Richardson was so right. "We didn't make the stops 
Going int6 the Alabama .on defense like we needed to," game · Wednesday night, Alabama coach David Hobbs Richardson. said his team was-said. "We didn't rebound like n•t the same.hne that lO!Wto we should have. We allowed the Crimson Tide on the road.. them second shots too many in earlyJanuary: . times/' 
Aft?r hjs top~r~~;~dRa.zo~:.. Williamson. played a huge ba.cksbeatAlabama 102:-Stf rJ>le as Arka.nsas (19·2! 9·2 he sai!i it ~gald.. t·.,. +%!;!iibl Southeastern Conference) 
"Our eopfid~ne:e ha~ !0-went on a 16~2 ~un tllat ma.de turne!ft he Sf114· ·'''W~.ha(J lQlkit 5.ts~39 with.i5:35 to play. playel"S ]Vi ....... · A$(19 mili~ ·.·· Alabama (13-~. 8·4}never got 
utes Qf'pla,y ~im~>-That 
alone tells h . utb better·· we are than we..were wl:um we-played at Alabama:·< .. · .. Corliss \Villiamsol}·score.d 10 points}~ the row m.iri.~ .,•• utes oft ·· ······ · J)ij, I{!Lfid, ~~-,,~; defense ed Crimson Tide. Alabat?a had ..•... 25 
closer than . .14tbe rest of the way. · · Williamson finished with 20 points, while Al Dillard had 14 
of his 16 in .the second half. Jamal Faulkner topped AI· 
abama with 18 points, while Jason Caffey added 14. 
· .. Corliss is ..as consistent as 
turnovers au~ gave U.f) l()Q,,, can be/' Richardson said. "He Points for the first tiJne in 6J"Pbad20points In 20 minutes/' games. .. ··• .7;c,:l'? Y . . ·_··. . Shon Peck-Love scored ln 
nwas Alabama that handed the opening seconds of the Arkansas its fjrst loss of the second half to cut the season. after. the }lazo.-backs Arkansas lead to 42-37. Corey had been No2t fo·ffive weeks. Beck's rebound basket started The . · . the last• run and· then Williamson· 
me, and everyone was so posi­tive. And everyone said, 'You're right,' and everyone stepped up their play." 
The comeback matched the record set on Dec. 30, 1950, when Duke rallied from a 58-27 halftime deficit early in the sec­ond half to beat Tulane 74-72. The NCAA record book listed the record as 29 points, but fur­ther research by Duke showed Tulane scored the first basket of the second half. 
Photo Courtesy of Kentucky Sports Information 
Rodrick Rhodes and Kentucky made an historic second-half comeback last night to defeat LSU. 
"When itwent to 30, we just wanted to make it respectable and not lose our confidence," Pitino said. "I told them during a timeout, 'It's not going well for us, everything's going well for them.... All you can do is show your character.' 
"I said, 'I don't know if we can win this thing, but I know we can give every ounce that we have in us.' And we kept making steals and steals and steals and then we started to shoot the basketball well." 
Kentucky scored the last nine points of the game, taking a 96-95 lead -their first since it was 1-0-on Walter McCar­ty's 3-pointer with 19 seconds left. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m, at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per characteF per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard ' 233-2342 /1 0-6 M-Sat 9·3 Sun 
OLD BOY RUGBY! Attention all graduate students and faculty members. If interested in forming the N.D. Old Boy Rugby Team/ Social Club, please call Jeff at 634-3004 (leave a message). The club will only form if enough are interested, so please don't hesitate to call. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
SLEIGHT OF HAND 
Tonight!!! 
at 
Acoustic Cafe 
9·10pm 
Free Coffee!!! 
Jean Jean the Typing Machine is BACK! Call 18858 for fast, friendly on-campus service. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST A FEW MONTHS AGO 
POSSIBLY IN DEBARTOLO: 
ALL BLACK NYLON JACKET 
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X4298 
LOST: Long blue winter RICCO coat at LeMan's formal on 
Sat. 
FOUND: Long black coat where 
mine should have been. 
If you accidentally took my coat 
please call Mike at x4264. 
LOST-LONDON FOG TRENCH 
COAT DURING THE HOLY 
CROSS SRY AT THE SENIOR 
BAR. PLEASE CALL X1772. 
LOST: U OF I COLLEGE OF 
AGRICULTURE GREY SWEAT· 
SHIRT AND BURGUNDY SCARF 
AT HAGGAR OR NOH 
PLEASE CALL DOMINIC X1166 DID YOU LEAVE YOUR KEYS IN 

THE OBSERVER OFFICE? WE 
HAVE A KEY RING WITH 4 KEYS 
ON IT WITH THE NUMBER 140 
ON 2 OF THEM. COME BY THE 
OBSERVER & ASK FOR SHIRLEY 
TO PICK THEM UP. 
Lost: black leather ladies right 
glove call beth 4994 
LOST: 
NDCiass Ring. 

Engraved "Duke '95" 
Lost on Feb. 7 at Campus View 
or D-6 parking lot. 

Please contact x1939. 
Thanks. 

Coat left in Career & Placement 
about 1 1/2 weeks ago. Call 
631-5200, ask for Katie. 
WANTED 

....SPRING BREAK '94** .. Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 11 0% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREE! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­
MENT-fisheries. Many earn 
$2000+/mo. in canneries or $3000­
$6000+/mo. on fishing vessels. 
Many employers provide benefits. 
No exp. necessary! For more info 
call: 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584 
Anyone going to NJ for break? I 
need a ride. Will help with gas, tolls, 
whatever. Call Elaine 2342. 
AIDE needed for 2 to St. Louis for ·Spring Break. Call Christian @ 1226 
PLEASE!!!!II need a ride to 
Cleveland for Spring Break. Will 
pay gas, tolls, etc. Leave Fri. eve? 
Call Doreen at 4-4624. 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY­
MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + 
TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl 
(CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, 
ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING 
AND SUMMER SEASONS 
APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT 
TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! 
CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 
Help! 4 desperate girls need ride to 
Long Island or NYC for Spring 
Break. Will pay gas, tolls, etc. 
Callx4881 
SUMMER JOBS/INTERNSHIPS • Average earnings $3,500.00. University Directories. the nation's largest publisher of campus tele­phone directories, hires over 250 college students for their summer sales progra[ll. Top earnings $5,000.00 -$6,500.00. Gain valu­able experience in advertising, sales and public relations selling yellow page advertising for your campus telephone directory. Positions also available in other uni· versity markets. Expense paid train­ing program in Chapel Hill, NC. Looking for enthusiastic, goal orient­ed students for challenging, well· paying summer job. Internships may be available. INTERVIEWS ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25TH AT THE CAREER PLANNING AND 
PLACEMENT,HESBURGH 
LIBRARY. 
NEEDED: SPRING BREAK RIDE to NY for 2 
NYC, Newburgh, Mahwah, Poughkeepsie pref. Will help $. Please call Brian or Jason x1130 
SHOE SENSATION Coming to the Concord Mall. Growing retail shoe company seeks enthusiastic, inde· pendent individuals to work full or part time in retail shoe store. Previous experience a plus. Flexible hours. Excellent benefits package and generous discounts available. Potential of $5 to $6 with sales bonus. Please send resume to: Action Enterprises Inc., 253 America Place, Jeffersonville IN 47130 
Ambitious students -Build your own business -Earn a good profit on an attractive new product. Call (800)736-1621 
LOVING BABYCARE NEEDED FOR MON. OR WED. MORNINGS. EXP. +OWN TRANSP. REQ'D. 233-6657. 
DEADHEADS -I need tapes bad. 
I've got the blanks. Can you come 
through for me? 273-5817 
FOR RENT 
2·5 BEDROOM HOMES 
SECURITY SYSTEM 
ALL APPLIANCES 
1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 
232 2595 
PARTY TIME '94-95 Big 6 bedrm. Safe area. Free maid sevice. Beach V·ball & B.B. courts. Furnished. Washer & dryer. 273-0482 or 234-3831. 
Beautiful apt-bike to campus Summer+ 94·95 yr 180/mo w/roommates Hickory Village 273-8369 
FOR SALE 
NISSAN SENTRA 83 GOOD CON­DITIONS $1450 OR BEST OFFER 80 ML LEAVE MESSAGE 2778598 
MACINTOSH CLASSIC II 4/80, 2 MB RAM (EXPANDABLE TO 10). 
LIKE NEW. $550. 277-1463. 
TICKETS ·I 
1-W,INDY/ORUNAPLES, $175 2196547222i2196548392 
Need NC-ND B-Ball Tix Lower 
Arena. Kevin 288-3408 
Chicago Bulls Tix For Sale 2i21 vs. Charlotte 2i23 vs. Golden State 
Good Prices, Good Seats Call Will at x 0577 
PERSONAL 
ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure couple longs for a newborn to join our family. Please call Nancy and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. 
One-year volunteer service program with sites in Arizona, California, Colorado, Massachusetts, Oregon, and Pennsylvania. Contact Jeff Hammes 1-5521 or Mary Ann Roemer 1-7949 for more informa­tion. Holy Cross Associates. 
A DRUM, A DRUM 
MACBETH doth come! 
Macbeth: Directed by Pete Dillard 
Wed. Feb. 15 and Thurs. Feb 16 
Washington Hall Lab (3rd floor) 
8:00pm-FREE!!I 
Doors open at 7:30pm 
Selling 1 Phantom ticket for the 
Sophomore Class JPW trip. Call 
Gail X3097 Meet you major nights for the College of Business are as follows: 

Marketing 2i17-6:00p.m. Management 2i21 ·6:00p.m. Finance 2i22 -6:30 p.m. Accounting 2i22 -7:30 p.m. 
All meetings will be in 122 Hayes-Healy 

College recommends declaration by March4. 
Sponsored by Sophomore Class. 
SLEIGHT OF HAND Tonightl!l at Acoustic Cafe 
9-10pm Free Coffee!ll 
SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786­8373 
Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help each other. Medllegal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 
1-800-864-8385. 
In a hurry ... don't worry. FAX ITI 

at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center NEW LOWER PRICES! 
College Republicans: FORUM on BOSNIA Guest Speaker: Major Ferraro Thurs., 2i17 @ 6:30pm rm. 131 DeBartolo 
Jeannette, Welcome 2 ND! I Love U. 
Giovanni 
Henceforth--be earls! 

OH MY MY --OH H· --YES The Inaugural Voyage (or "Don't make me downshift·· I'm just learmng to drive stick") 
Show me your chunk of spit, 
Missouri Where's Pierre? I hadn't realized it was such a 

common occurence to have sex in 
the park Carbon monoxide POISONING! SEGA! WHISKEY! ButtSKAY! Test pavement 80 miles to Memphis--we're 
definitely there in 7 hours Roxanne doesn't even LIKE you! If the Backer were a city, it would be 
New Orleans Could you please take your elbow 
out of my mo.uth Glasnost flowers for your hair Perestroika umbrella Robbin' the m+house Warning: plastic babies in cake. Just remember--St. John's Bayou Ye Olde College Inn You want to get on my shoulders, 
little girl? 

It's more relaxing for him to drive than for him to sit in the driver's seat while I drive 
Katie's hand in the ziploc Cheryl, if you couldn't drive stick ... B·O-B·I-T-A Bobita It's quarter past .. . YEAH TRISH ... (CRASH) 
THERE'S SCRATCHES THE LENGTH OF THE FILM!! 

Costume designer Tricia Nolan, a Notre Dame senior, displayed cre­ative and splendid modern Shakespearean styles-· YEAH TRISH!IIII 
how do you KNOW th\11 Valerie Dillon had rnore beads than anyone else? 

Thursday, February 17, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Hill makes major impact for Duke, Muskateers roll 
Associated Press 
Grant Hill said he took of­fense to his four-point perfor­mance earlier this season against Virginia and Cornel Parker, its defensive stopper. 
The Duke senior made amends for his season-low total Wednesday night by scoring 25 points, grabbing 11 rebounds and handing out five assists as the sixth-ranked Blue Devils rolled to an 84-54 victory. 
"I should've had 30," Hill said when asked about Parker's defense. "I missed several easy shots. 
"I was aggressive. I wanted it. I wanted to get off early and be aggressive and let him know I was coming at him." 
Parker said he got the mes­sage. 
"He scored the first four points on me and then I could see it in his eyes, every time he got the ball I had to react," Parker said. "He showed the type of player he is. Tonight I have to rate that he was the toughest player in the ACC I've guarded all year." 
Despite his outstanding sta­tistics, Hill still wasn't satisfied. 
"I have yet, in my mind, put together a 40-minute game," said Hill, who also had four blocks. "I guess striving for that keeps you going." 
The victory gave the Blue 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
Circulation Drivers 
Circulation Drivers needed between 11:00 a.m. ­2:00p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. If interested, call Joe Riley at 4-1780. 
Devils (18-3, 9-3 Atlantic Coast Conference) a one-half game lead over No. 2 North Carolina, which plays at Clemson on Thursday night. Duke, which rebounded from a loss at Wake Forest on Sunday, has won 21 of the last 25 against Virginia. 
Antonio Lang added 20 points as did freshman Jeff Capel, who turned in a solid game, playing his most minutes of the season because of a foot injury to top reserve Marty Clark. The guard hit seven of his first eight shots en route to a season-high total. 
Jason Williford led Virginia, which shot 28.8 percent for the second straight game, with 14 points. 
"I think it's pretty obvious the story was offense," Virginia coach Jeff Jones said. "Duke's was excellent, and ours was awful." 
Duke trailed 22-20 with 
11:28 left in the first half after the Cavaliers (13-8, 7-5) hit three 3-pointers in a 12-2 run. 
But the Blue Devils outscored Virginia 25-6 over the final 11 minutes of the opening period, building a 45­28 halftime lead. 
Hill started the run with a driving baseline dunk and scored eight points on a variety of shots while Lang added nine. 
"Grant was sensational. Grant was everywhere," Duke 
coach Mike Krzyzewski said. 
The Cavaliers, last in the ACC in field goal percentage, came in shooting 37.7 percent over their last nine games. And while Virginia held its own in the opening 10 minutes, the Cavaliers hit the skids during Duke's spurt, going 2-for-14 from the field and 0-for-6 from the foul line with six turnovers. 
Florida 91, Georgia 79 
Craig Brown and Dan Cross each scored 21 points and No. 17 Florida routed Georgia 91­79 on Wednesday night to reach the 20-win mark for the first time since 1988-89. 
Florida (20-4, 10-2 South­eastern Conference) trailed 40­36 at halftime but went on a 31-13 run over the first 10 min­utes of the second half. Cross scored 11 points in the run af­ter scoring just five points in the first half. 
Dametri Hill scored 13 of his 15 points in the second half for Florida. 
Dathon Brown led Georgia (11-12, 5-6) with 18 points. 
Georgia cut the gap to nine on a layup by Bernard Davis with 7:13 left. Florida reeled off the next six points to put the game away. 
In the second half, the Gators were 19-for-34 from the field (56 percent), while holding Georgia to just 45 percent shooting. Florida outrebounded the Bulldogs 45-32. 
Its the fifth time in school history the Gators have won 20 games. Florida, 1 1/2 games in front of Kentucky in the SEC's East Division, is off to the best conference start in school his­tory. 
Purdue 67, Wisconsin 64 
The game was on the line and Glenn Robinson, Division I's scoring leader, responded. 
Robinson had 27 points and 
16 rebounds Wednesday night 
as No. 9 Purdue withstood a late 3-point assault by Wiscon­sin for a 67-64 victory. 
"He really came out after his last game at Wisconsin and played strong," said Purdue coach Gene Keady, who had seen his star struggle and make just six of 25 shots when the Badgers defeated Purdue earli­er this season. 
"Great players are going to step up and accept the chal­lenge," said Robinson, who had 13 of Purdue's last 17 points and also had a big blocked shot down the stretch. 
Purdue (21-3, 9-3 Big Ten) led 59-47 with 6:50 to play after Robinson completed a five-point play that included two free throws after a techni­cal foul called against Wisconsin's bench. 
Andy Kilbride, who had 20 points, and Michael Finley, who had 19, then began finding the basket from beyond the arc for Wisconsin (15-6, 6-6), which played without freshman Rashard Griffith, who missed his second consecutive game with back spasms. 
Robinson, who came in with a 28.5 average, hit a bucket that gave the Boilermakers a 65-61lead with 36 seconds left. 
"I had it in my mind that I was going to hit it all the time. I said I'm not going to let a guard stop me down low," Robinson said. 
After Finley missed a 3­pointer, Matt Waddell hit two free throws for the Boilermak­ers with 14 seconds remaining. 
Wisconsin coach Stu Jack­son, who had the technical called against him, was critical of the officiating. His team took only four free throws, com­pared to 14 by the Boilermak­ers 
Kent 62, Akron 53 

Rod Koch scored 13 points, including four to spark a 7-0 run with less than three min­utes to play, as Kent beat Akron 62-53 Wednesday night in the Mid-American Conference. 
The Golden Flashes (12-9 overall, 7-6 MAC) were leading 52-43 with 2:58 left when La­mont Frierson hit a 3-point shot to bring Akron within 52-47. 
Koch responded with a layup, a steal, a rebound and two free throws in the next 1:54 and James Johnson hit three free throws to make it 59-47 with 1:05 left. 
Koch made another free throw and Nate Reinking, who finished with a game-high 17 points, added two more in the fmal 48 seconds. 
Kent led 25-23 at halftime and shot 55 percent in the sec­ond half in winning its 18th straight home game against Akron. 
Kent took the lead for good at 33-31 with 15:22 left in the second half on a steal and jump shot by Brook Bright. Akron's biggest lead was 6-2 on a Tron Jenkins layup with 17:34 to play in the first half. 
The Zips (8-13 overall, 2-11 MAC) were led by Chris Richardson's 15 points. Torrey Kershaw had 11 and Jenkins had 10. 
Xavier, Ohio 93, Butler 73 
Tyrice Walker had 20 points and four other Xavier players scored in double figures as the Musketeers beat Butler 93-73 in a Midwestern Collegiate Conference game Wednesday night. 
Butler led early, but Jeff Massie rallied Xavier with eight points during a 13-3 run mid­way through the first half and the Musketeers (17 -4, 5-1) held on to lead by one at halftime. 
Walker had 14 second-half points, and Xavier used an 8-0 run to pull away from a 41-41 tie. Massie finished with 18 points, Erik Edwards had 15, and Brian Grant and Steve Gentry had 12 apiece. 
Chris Miskel had 28 points for Butler (12-12, 4-4), and Marcus Cowart added 11. 
Spring Break Loan 
$300 minimum $300 maximum Deferred payments 9.4% APR Students with good credit or no credit qualify 
No co-signer needed. Bring your student I.D. 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 288-NDCU 
Independent of the University 
The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for: 
Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 
Applicants are asked to submit a 2 page personal statement and resume to Sarah Doran no later than 5 p.m. Sunday, February 20. For additional information, contact Sarah at 631-5323. 
The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editors Viewpoint Copy Editors 
Applicants for both positions should have a strong interest in journalism, editing skills and a knowledge of page design. Applicants should submit a resume and 1-2 page personal statement to Suzy Fry by 4 p.m. Sunday, February 20, 1994. For additional information, please contact Fry at 631-4542. 
r 
page 14 The 0 bserver • OLYMPICS Thursday, February 17, 1994 
American skiers shocking Italian woman wins gold in luge 
By TONY CZUCZKA ern Alto Adige region. Clearly "The book said it meant 'the
the world and themselves Associated Press into speed, she trains "like highest' and my sled was blue, 
By JOHN NELSON 
Associated Press 
RINGEBU, Norway 

Who are these American skiers? What is their secret? Where have they been hiding? It's a case worthy of Scotland Yard. 
"I know the big question of the day at the Olympics is, 'What's going on with the Americans?'" U.S. gold medal­ist Diann Roffe-Steinrotter said. "If I knew, I'd tell you. I have no idea. 
"If I knew, I could write a book." 
That's just about what Euro­pean sports writers are doing as they try to unravel the mys­teries of a team maligned at home as unfit for anything steeper than a Norwegian bar bill. 
"People know that we were told we weren't even going to medal. I really shouldn't have to say much about that," Roffe­Steinrotter said. 
Through two Alpine events at the Lillehammer Games, the United States has two gold medals -by Tommy Moe in the men's downhill and Roffe­Steinrotter in the women's su­per-giant slalom -and the tra­ditional ski powers are reeling. 
Neither Austria nor Switzerland had an Alpine medal going into the men's su­per-giant slalom Thursday at Kvitfjell, while America was dominating skiing like never before. 
"For us, I think, getting to the Olympics and qualifying is the most difficult thing," Roffe­Steinrotter said. "Skiing is not such a big thing in the U.S. We don't have the pressure like the skiers from the other countries. Once we get here, it's easy for us to ski." 
After a exclusive photo shoot with an Italian photographer at the Athletes' Village on Wednesday morning, Roffe­Steinrotter finally got a chance to relax. 
If there was no pressure on the Americans coming into the Games, there is now. 
America has never started a Winter Games with two straight victories in Alpine events, and only once has the United States earned more than two skiing gold medals. That was at Sara­jevo in 1984 when Bill Johnson won the men's downhill, Phil Mahre won the men's slalom and Debbie Armstrong won the women's giant slalom. 
Only once before has Amer­ica even won twice, and that was in 1952 at Oslo when An­drea Mead Lawrence won both the women's giant slalom and slalom. 
Roffe-Steinrotter said she took tremendous inspiration from Moe's victory Sunday. Now, American racers have two victories to inspire them. 
"We're so fired up, you just can't believe it," U.S. women's downhiller Picabo Street said. 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway 

On her speedy sled Blue Max, thundering down the washboard luge course, Gerda Weissensteiner's shyness melt­ed away. 
The 24-year-old forest war­den from the Italian Alps laid down four ferocious runs to clinch the Olympic women's luge gold Wednesday at the leading edge of a European medal sweep. 
Cammy Myler of Lake Placid, N.Y., seen as a contender for the first U.S. Olympic luge medal after finishing fifth in the '92 Games, came in six places lower this time. 
Myler couldn't make up time lost when she bounced off the course's icy wall in Tuesday's second run, and put a foot down to stay upright. 
It happened at turn 13, which is called the Billy Goat Ride in an image drawn from the Norwegian folk tale Peer Gynt. The same curve threw Erin Warren and also knocked Duncan Kennedy out of the men's race. 
Myler, 25, held 11th place with two respectable windup slides Wednesday. 
"First and foremost today my goal was to keep my feet off the ice," she said. "I was defi­nitely hoping for a better per­formance here, but it's all part of sport." 
Weissensteiner, one of eight children, Jives in her parents' farmhouse in Italy's northeast-crazy" and rides motocross motorcycles for fun. 
Her Olympic gold crowned a year-long string of luge tri­umphs that included titles in the world championship, World Cup and European champi­onship. 
She said no one found a per­fect line down the icy 16-turn Hunderfossen Olympic track. 
But Weissensteiner came closest, with a four-run total of 3 minutes, 15.517 seconds. 
Usually reserved in public, she jumped for joy on the medal podium. 
"I was driven by my fourth place at the last Olympics," said Weissensteiner. "At that time I resolved to win a medal at Lillehammer." 
She named her sled after coming across "Maximilian" while seeking a name for one of her three sisters' children: so -Blue Max." 
Germany's Susi Erdmann, the 1992 bronze medalist, took silver, . 7 59 seconds behind Weissensteiner. Andrea Tagw­erker of Austria won the bronze, 1.135 back. 
Erdmann moved temporarily into the lead with a fast fourth run, and Weissensteiner responded with a final-run pace of nearly 75 mph, her body jiggling like jelly in the shiny blue suit as she hurtled down the rutted course. 
"I was a little bit scared ... because the track was so icy," Weissensteiner said. "Anything could have happened." 
Tagwerker says Weis­sensteiner's secret is pressing her head further back toward the ice than other top racers, which cuts wind resistance while lying belly-up, feet-first on her sled. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Associate Accent Editor Assistant Accent Editors Accent Copy Editors 
Applicants are asked to submit a 1 page personal statement and resume to Mary Good no later than 5 p.m. Sunday, February 20. For more information, contact Mary at 284-5487. 
College Parle Condominiums Rental Units Now Available 
• 1/4 Mile from Library  •Washer & Dryer Units  
• Brand New Appliances  • Large Closets  
•2 Bedrooms  • Covered Parking  
• 2 Bathrooms  • Security System  

• Large Balconies 
Come See Us For 
JPW OPEN HOUSE 
Saturday, Feb. 1 9 & Sunday, Feb. 20 
272-0691 
Goin Ouicl<ly • $660 per month 

Thursday, February 17, 1994 The Observer • OLYMPICS page 15 
That 5-1 win over the 11th seed in the 12-team tourna­ment. Having beaten the two weakest teams in lts group. Russia ends the five-game preliminary round against 
Germany and th~ C~e--~?tLi.K Republic. After ninth-seeded Austria 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Assistant Marketing Director 
Applicants should be creative, have an interest in marketing, solid Macintosh experience, and strong self-motivation. If there are any questions please call Jake Peters at 1-5323 or Tom Lillig at 1-6900. Applicants are asked to submit a resume no later than 5 p.m. Friday, February 18. 
00 CG~~fPM® JMfi1l~@Jf?® JPW Luncheon
. . ··:·:.~;A:::::,{: 
Sat~'r!d;,~y,,,;Febro~ey 1 
at Alumni Senior Club 
•
• •• --GRADUATE STUDENTS-­Long Range Planning Meeting 
Thursday, 2/17/94-7 PM-Sorin Room If you are a graduate student and are interested in the life of graduate students at Notre Dame, plan to attend the Long Range Planning Meeting scheduled Thursday 
•

•
• (2/17) at 7 PM in the Sorin Room (LaFortune). We will
•
• be discussing: how can we focus to meet the needs of
•
•
• grad students; what are our goals for the next 5 years; 
•
• and what are our financial priorities? Refreshments
•
•
• provided.
•
• --sponsored by the Graduate Student Union-­
•
• Last meeting of 1993-1994 Francis Administration.
•
• 
Canada, new Gretzky next for U.S.A. 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway 
Oh, great. The U.S. hockey team is winless after two games for the first time in 10 years, its hopes for a medal vanishing, and guess who's dead ahead. 
The Next One, Olympic ver­sion. 
Paul Kariya, a 19-year-old who is the latest hockey-playing Canadian teen-ager to bear the burden of being the next Wayne Gretzky, must be contained if the United States is to finally win one Thursday night. 
"His skating style is similar to Gretzky's. He might even be a better skater," U.S. coach Tim Taylor said Wednesday. "And he loves to make plays. It's an accurate comparison." 
A loss to Canada (2-0-0) would leave the Americans (0­0-2) with just two points from three games, and second-seed­ed Sweden still to come. Losses to Canada and Sweden would force them to beat lightly regarded Italy in their last pre­liminary game to have a chance at the medal round. 
Kariya, a Vancouver native who attends the University of Maine, scored 100 points in 39 games and was the top U.S. col­lege player in leading the Black 
Powerful Finns earn third win 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway 
Unbeaten Finland clinched a spot in the Olympic hockey quarterfinals Wednesday night, using suffocating defense to gain its second straight shutout, 4-0 over winless Norway. 
Bears to the 1993 NCAA title. 
. Five of his Maine teammates 
are on the U.S. team. 
"If I'd never seen him, I 
might be dumbfounded or in 
awe of him," said Garth Snow, 
who gets his second straight 
start in the United States' goal. 
Added defenseman Matt 
Martin: "I'm used to having 
him on my side. I wish he was 
on our side now." 
Kariya said facing his former 
teammates "is a strange expe­
rience." 

"It's tough seeing them go 
down the ice wheri you're used 
to cheering for them," he said. 
"The roles are reversed now." 
Kariya and linemates Chris 
Kontos and Petr Nedved were 
NHL first-round draft picks. 
"That's a pretty nice line," 
Taylor said. "We have to pay 
special attention to that line, no 
doubt about it." 
Canadian coach Tom Henney 
said the best thing about Kariya 
is that he makes everyone on 
the ice better. It's another simi­
larity between Kariya and 
Gretzky, the NHL's all-time 
scoring leader. 
"Unfortunately, (teammates) 
are usually a half-step behind · him," Henney said, "He thinks and plays at a better speed 
than anybody else." 
Asked if he had to change 
The seventh-seeded Finns, who allowed a combined 27 shots on goal in beating the top two seeds in their group, gave 11th-seeded Norway few op­portunities. Goalie Jarmo Myllys was rarely tested. 
The Finns held a 32-11 shooting advantage. They al­ready had stymied stronger teams, beating the third-seeded Czech Republic 3-1 and stun­ning top-seeded Russia 5-0. 
As the game ended, Myllys thrust both arms skyward moments before he was mobbed by teammates. 
EXPOROMA 
a display of student work from their year in Rome 
.. 
ARCHITECTURE BUILDING MAIN LOBBY open to visitors 
FRIDAY-SUNDAY FEBUARY 18-20 


9a.m. to I 0 p.m. 

Finland (3-0) plays Austria (0-3) and Germany (2-1) in its remaining games before the single-elimination playoffs in­volving the top four teams in each of the two groups. 
Myllys, who helped beat the Czech Republic, returned to the Finnish goal after Jukka Tammi blanked the Russians Wednesday night. 
Petri Varis gave Finland a 1­0 lead at 6:46 of the first pe­riod. The Finns added second­period goals by Mika Stroem­berg and Vesa Erik Hamalainen. 
his speed to play with Kariya, Kontos smiled. "You mean, do I have to slow down for him?" 
"Seriously, he's very Gret­zky-like," Kontos said. "He sees the ice incredibly well." 
When he's on the ice Thurs­day night, he might see U.S. players trying to drill him into the boards... if they can catch him. 
"I hope that I get to hit him, that he doesn't slip away," said the 6-foot-4, 210-pound Martin, who hulks over the 5-11, 165­pound Kariya. 
But Kariya isn't worried about Martin, Peter Ferraro or the other Maine men on the 
U.S. team. 
"I don't look around and say, 'There's Matt.' If some­one's trying to get under my skin, I don't check to see if it's Peter," Kariya said. "When I'm out there, I'm focused on what I have to do." 
Odds are that the hitting will come from both sides in a fierce, long-running rivalry. 
"Canada is supposed to beat the United States because it's supposed to be our national sport," Canadian goalie Corey Hirsch said. 
The United States is 2-8-2 against Canada in Olympic competition, 0-3 since last win­ning in 1960. 
page 16 

Miami puts heat on Bulls, escapes with close victory 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
The Miami Heat rallied from a 21-point deficit by zeroing in on All-Star Most Valuable Player Scottie Pippen in the sec­ond half. 
"We got to try and stop Scottie Pippen. We set up as a team to stop the big-time play­ers," Miami coach Loughery said after the Heat ended Chicago's home winning streak at 17 games with a 109-101 victory Wednesday night. 
Steve Smith capped the Mi­ami rally from a 21-point deficit with 14 of his 25 points in the fourth quarter. 
The Bulls' last previous loss at Chicago Stadium was Nov. 13 against Boston. The Heat hand­ed Chicago its only other home loss on Nov. 6 and became the first Bulls opponent to win two regular-season games in Chicago since 1990-91. 
"We played great ball in the second half," Loughery said. "It was a very physical game and we weren't physical in the first half. The defense won the game." 

Pippen, who scored 18 of his 21 points in the first half, played the entire third quarter and was 1-for-7 from the field and 0-for-2 from the line. 
"As good as Scottie Pippen played in the first half, he was that bad in the second half," Chicago coach Phil Jackson said. "They got out and played good defense. Their big-guard lineup changed the game. 
"I was disappointed because we lost our poise, and we did not have that bold basketball sense. The game ended on a dismal note. This happens." 
The Bulls, after leading 61­43 at halftime, scored just 40 
AP file photo 
points in the second half. 

Rony Seikaly was instrumental in Miami's shocking victory over Chicago last night. The victory snapped a
With 5:55 left, Smith's 3­
17 game home win streak for the Bulls. pointer gave Miami its first lead, 90-88. At that point, the gave the Heat the lead for good. 1:10 left, making it 98-92. had a career-high 22 points, 
Heat had outscored Chicago 4 7-A layup by Rony Seikaly 1 7 Chicago closed within three followed with a basket. But 27 in the second half. The game seconds later gave Miami a 96-when B.J. Armstrong, who fin­Smith converted a three-point was tied 92-92 wh!')n Matt 92 advantage, and Seikaly con­ished with 21 points, hit a free play with 46 seconds left to ice Geiger's dunk with 1:40 left verted two free throws with throw and Scott Williams, who the game. 
.. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
TAKE IT OFF 

"She decided that she would stop wearing make-up for Lent." 
A few days ago, a friend told me about somebody who decided that, instead of giving-up candy and such things, she would not wear make-up during Lent. We laughed a little because of this unusual lenten "sacrifice". Yet, in a way this withdrawal from cosmetics does signify what Lent is all about. 
Many seniors know all too well about the value of appearing strong, successful and confident during a job interview. Many people here at Notre Dame know about the value of looking attractive at a party or a 
S.Y.R.. It is natural, to some extent, to care about how we look. The danger is that we spend our lives simply taking care of ourselves and trying to be desired by others. We human beings have a great need to feel desirable, and the great fear is that the "real you" and the "real me" are undesirable. So, bring on the make-up! 
It is all too easy to pretend that we are people who we are not, covering­up people who experience pain, painting-over people who feel that they are undesirable, applying layers over people desired by a God who created them in God's own image. 
The story of Jesus is the story of a person who called people tum away from a cosmetic lifestyle. He called people from performing religious acts simply in order to be noticed. Jesus called people away from a false sense of security that was based on appearances. He called people away from being absorbed with the way they appeared. Jesus announced the reign of God and called people to strip-off the cosmetics in order to uncover people created and desired by God. 
In the Church, there are many practices which are meant to help us to remove the "make-up" of our lives. The ancient tradition of fasting, prayer, and almsgiving is meant to help Christians to die to the "pretend self' and live the "true self'. The stations of the cross is another practice which is meant to help us strip ourselves of what keeps us from being like Christ. These practices are meant to help us recall who we really are, people who experience pain and death. We are people who are afraid sometimes. We are people who sometimes discriminate against people because of the way they appear. We are people who are at times too concerned with the way we appear to notice the pain and suffering of others, whether they be across the hall or across the wodd. 
Lent is a season during which Christians prepare to celebrate the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. We too are called to join Jesus on this journey to the cross, a journey which may be painful because it requires 
•••CONSIDERATIONS us to remove the make-up which we have attached to ourselves. Yet, a journey which leads to a life of freedom in this world, and beyond it. Ultimately Lent is about the conversion from being a made-up self to being the God-made self. What is it about us that stands between us and other people? Let's try to let God remove it. Under all the cosmetics of our life, exist people known and desired by God. Bob Dowd, C.S.C.  
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA Sat. February 19 5:00p.m. Rev.Mark Thesing, C.S.C. Sun. February 20 10:00 a.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 11:45 a.m. Rev.Thomas McDermott, C.S.C.  
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 1sT READING Genesis 9: s.. IS 2ND READING 1Peter 3: 18..22 GosPEL Mark 1: 12.. 15  
STATIONS OF THE CROSS Every Friday during Lent 7:15p.m. in the Basilica  
FASTING AND ABSTINENCE DURING LENT Catholic Americans who are 14 years or older are obliged to abstain from meat during the Fridays of Lent. On Good Friday, all Catholics between 18 and 60 are obliged to fast and abstain from meat. In this matter, to fast means to have only one full meal or to smaller meals, eating nothing in between.  


Thursday, February 17, 1994 
Saint Mary's snaps losing streak 
By KIMBERLY BERO Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team can finally breathe a sigh of relief. 
After a disabling five-game losing streak, the Belles came back Tuesday night to defeat Goshen College 62-57. · 
The Belles' record now stands at 5-12 for the year. 
"Not only did we break our losing streak, but we won on the road, which is very important," said head coach Marvin Wood. 
This game also gave the Belles an opportunity to play in Goshen's new athletic facility which opened its doors last month. 
"They have a beautiful new facility. It was nice to play in," said Wood. 
The Belles were led by senior Anne Mulcahy, who poured in 24 points and hit six three point shots. 
Sophomore Jennie Taubenheim, who has con­tinued to be an instrumental player for the Belles, finished the game with 21 points and 15 rebounds. 
The Maple Leafs, now 6-13 on the year, were led by Dana Selzer who scored 19 points and Kristen Milton who added 12 points. 
The Belles powerful defense was instrumental in stifling the Maple Leafs' shooting from the perimeter. 
"We had a good defense for the most part of the game," said Wood. "We controlled Goshen well. All of their baskets came from inside the 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

The Saint Mary's basketball team and guard Anne Mulcahy downed Goshen Tuesday night to snap a five-game losing streak. 
three point line." However, Goshen's defense was tight under the basket, forcing the Belles to shoot from the field. 
"Goshen's defense made it a perimeter game for us. They were tough under the basket," said Wood. 
The Belles had tightened up some of their plays aBecause the Belles have three more games in the next week, they have little time to revel in this long sought victory. 
"We don't have time to practice this week," commented Wood. "We can't make any major changes in such a short time, we will just have to work on our mental game." 
The Belles will be in action again tonight when they host Concordia College. 
are still resulting Mtackin 
30. and
ready to 
·near 

I I
\ 

I I 
\ 

I 
I
\ 
\ 
\ 

,
,
' 

' /
' ,
' / 
, /
, 

/ 
/ 

, •, 
' 
' 

' 
' 
' ' 
\ \ 
, 

1

......... I ~~-::>_ DlAJlJl1l l_i~tllItUJNSIIA_D _. 
SAVllHli'E:!Cne YOU CAll 
_fJP_t044% 
liE IT EVERY TIME Yll MAKE ALDNI DISTANCE COLLECT CALL. 
Men 
continued from page 20 
trol of the match, Casas began playing with unmatched emo­tion. His attitude rubbed off on the rest of the team, and Ceponis took over. The captain had a game-high seven kills to go with seventeen in the match. 
After winning game two, the now-confident and bordering on cocky Irish absolutely domi­nated the Spartans. Michigan State was on its heels the entire game, and the Irish refused to let up. 
Matt Strottman, who had a team-high 19 kills, and Chris Fry, who played an outstanding game at setter, took their games to another level. Ceponis continued his strong play, actually knocking down the overwhelmed Spartans with his ferocious spikes. 
The Irish had match point on the Spartans in game four, but then let the game and match slip away. 
Senior Tom Kovats was huge in this game, recording five kills and several blocks. At the end of the game, Notre Dame tended to stray from its game plan, failing to attack the vul­nerable middle of the Spartan defense. 
"We tried to mix it up too much late," commented Cepo­nis. 
Michigan State made them pay. 
A both physically and men­tally exhausted Irish squad had little left for the Spartans in the deciding game. 
More times than not, Notre Dame settled for digs instead of spikes. 
Nevertheless, it was a strong team perfomance. 
"Everyone played their best," said a dejected Matt Strottman. "Maybe we just got tired." 
"It hurts," was all senior out­side hitter Tom Kovats could say after the agonizing loss. 
The Irish took State to the limit but fell a little short. "We needed a total team effort," coach Perrelli of Michigan St., "And we got one." 
Even with the loss, Notre Dame has continued to show vast improvement and has nowhere to go but up. 
,. 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 17, 1994 
., Jordan vs. Huff: The Mike debate begins 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press 

SARASOTA, Fla. 
What more could Michael Huff do last spring to make the Chicago White Sox as a backup outfielder? He hit .426 and showed speed and versatility. 
But when roster cuts came, Huff headed to Nashville for minor league ball and his ros­ter spot went to Bo Jackson, who'd make a highly publicized and miraculous recovery from hip replacement surgery. 
Now Huff is dealing with some high-profile competition from another guy named Michael, and another guy seek­ing a miracle -Michael Jordan, the basketball star turned would-be baseball play­er. 
"You sit back and look at it and say, 'This is Michael Jor­dan, one of the greatest of all times playing basketball.' But then you look around and this is not a basketball court, it's not a basketball and we're not shooting free throws," said Huff. 
Huff has been as helpful' as any player could be, trying to ease Jordan's transition to a new game, one that many say he'll never be able to play at the major league level. Huff worked out under Comiskey Park this winter with Jordan. 
He said there's no way he'd refuse help to Jordan, even if­in theory -Jordan could beat him out. 
"I believe the minute you start back-stabbing someone, the minute you stop helping people who genuinely want to 
learn, is the minute bad things start lh.appening to you," said Huff. 
"Michael has been very gen­uine and sincere about it. If he'd come in mocking baseball with a beer belly, then someone would say something to him.... I wouldn't say anything to him. 
''I'm going to help him be the best he can be, like I did last year with Bo and Ellis (Burks), getting them to learn the system," he added. 
Huff admits the Jackson sit­uation from a year ago has crossed his mind. 
"Olh., yeah, you can't help but think, 'Here we go again.' But hopefully I've done some things to convince the White Sox that I can be one of the guys they want on the team to win it all." 
American bobsled team decided, ready 
ByJOHN KEKlS 
Associated Press 

LILLEHAMMER, Norway 
Jim Herberich bounced off a couple of walls and Brian Shimer's hamstring was aching. Randy Will still was no match. 
Herberich and Shimer left Will on the outside looking in Wednesday, winning a two­heat raceoff in their shiny new Bo-Dyn sleds to earn berths in the two-man bobsled field. The first race is Saturday. 
Will went first, then Her­berich and Shimer. The order was reversed for heat No. 2. Despite his problems, Her­berich posted the fastest time on the first run, 53.19 seconds, edging Shimer by .09 seconds and Will by .20. 
"The first ruli I hit the wall on (turns) 4 and 5, and also between 14 and 15," said Her­berich, of Winchester, Mass. "Maybe I was putting too much control on the sled. The second run I backed off as much as I could. It wasn't a good thing." 
The erratic drive the first time down the twisting, 16­turn Hunderfossen track left Herberich unsettled. 
"I think I was a little over­confident of making it into the race," said Herberich, whose time in the first heat was the fastest of all 52 sleds practic­ing. "Brian and Handy were a lot closer than I had expected. I worry a lot, so I started get­ting a little nervous between heats and had to make sure I calmed myself down." 
Angels' All-Star left-bander Mark Langston. 
To a batter, with her long hair flowing behind her base­ball cap, she must look like the girl pitcher played by Tatum O'Neal in "The Bad News Bears." 
But unlike the fictional junior leaguer, Ina Borders had a case of nerves. 
The Southern California Col­lege pitcher went all nine in­nings of a 12-1 victory Tuesday over Claremont-Mudd, giving up a home run among five hits, 
Look out guys, she's throwing heat 
Associated Press striking out two batters, walk­victory. "The thing that means 
ing three and getting no aster­the most to me is going out and 
COSTA MESA, Calif. isk. pitching with a great bunch of 
She whirls from the mound The latter was missing, people." much in the style of California sports information director Pat 
SPORTS BRIEFS

Guillen said, because research showed two other women played previously in college baseball. 
Nontheless, Borders became not only the first female pitcher in a collegiate game. She proved she deserved her schol­arship and her job on the mound. 
Borders, 18, seemed unim­pressed with becoming the first woman to pitch in an NCAA or NAIAgame. 
"That doesn't mean any­thing to me," she said after the 
HAO/LULAC 
DANCE 
AT SENIOR BAR 
FROM 10 P.M. TO 1 A.M. 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19 $2 PER PERSON $3 PER COUPLE 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
Thursday, February 17 Notre Dame Women's Basketball vs. LaSalle 7:30pm JACC Arena 
Fridav. February 18 Notre Dame Women's Tennis vs. Miami (Fll 4:00 pm Eck Pavilion 
Saturday, February 19 Notre Dame Women's Tennis vs. Kentucky 11 :00 am Eck Pavilion 
Notre Dame Men's and Women's Indoor Track vs. Drake 
12:30 pm Loftus Center * * FREE ADMISSION * * 

Big East 
continued from page 20 

Dame would balance the foot­ball and basketball politics in the conference and also help it extend its audience in the Midwest's television market. 
The Irish would likely receive a recruiting boost with their ex­panded television exposure and scheduling would be less of a problem. 
And DePaul could leave its unhappy home in the Great 
Midwest Conference. 

It seems like it would be a happy marriage, but things generally don't run smoothly in college sports. ' 
Don't look for the football team to join anytime soon, though. 
Regardless of what happens in the next few weeks, don't look for Notre Dame and DePaul in the Big East next season. 
"Things will likely exist next season (1994-95) as they are now," a conference source said. 
~s  Exp 
~e~,.  e~,~~  
'¢  

,;; Speaks for Itself ~ 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
9 Month -10 Month -12 Month Leases FURNISHED APARTMENTS, ALL UTILITIES COVERED, CENTRAL AIR 
Wide open spaces, well appointed apartments. Indoor Pool & jacuzzi. Sports activity area. Weight machine, 24 Hour Laundry. 
STUDENT ACCOMODATION AND CARE AT AFFORDABLE PRICES. WE TAKE SECURITY AND SAFETY SERIOUSLY. 
Visit Our Office and Meet Our Staff Call Dorene NOW 
272--1441 

-----~
r-----------------------------------·---------------------------------­
Thursday, February 17, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
...
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

Tf!E JPr('i~£D 
T\1£ FLUfFY CLoUDS 
ROC.KS OF SARDONIC. 
OF W~fil FAMIL'/ POl.tfiC.AL SPrTIRE. HllMOR 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 


0 
~/) 
---"=':--· 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
NIITE. I 1-\E.l.P fYIE. o... ,.. 1-\E~E. Fo~~: (\ "Se.c.oNl:> .. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 "The Third Man" 48 1905 Secretary director of State
1 Not piquant 
25 Subservient 50 Shoshone 5 Israelite at the 
28 Mash 51 End of theconquest of 30 Computer code adage

Canaan 34 Son of Hera 59 Word with fire or
10 Fortune's no
35 Type of window 37 Mason's aid 60 Paris official 
partner 
14 Rustic 38 Cornishman 61 Pop singer
15 More than fubsy Burdon39 Web-footed 
16 Part of an ete 
animal 62 Some charts 17 About 17 million 
40 Use a 63 Essence square miles whetstone 
64 Late-night star 18 Get even, in a 41 Four-time 
65 Fly ash 
way Japanese P.M. 66 Some homes
42 Mugs 67 Crackpot19 Germany's 
Oscar 43 Tag words 20 Start of an 44 Tithing adage 46 ABC, for short DOWN 23lnfamous 47 Making a 
1 Prankster 
Ugandan stand? 2Rummy 3 Anne Nichols ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE stage hero 4 Exciting to the max 5Welsh dog &Incite 7 Wife of Jacob 8 Steep slope 9 Actress Davis 
-7-+-::-+:::-+7-1 1oOslo and others ~:-+.':t:-t::-1 11 Taurus or Aries, 
e.g. 12 Paw 13 Western 
Electric founder --Barton 
TilE. PR&nNnovs 
T\1 E. BL ACI<' AByss
TVWt"RS OF f!IC,.H­
01'" U M liED TALENT
BRow W•f 
BILL WATTERSON 
UX)~ 0\IT.' 


I Gob"):: "oPE. f'.ioT. 
\ 


22 Binge 42 Type of gun 53 Stick in the 25 Wordless 45 Like best fridge? friends 54 Tiny 
26 Alpine feature 47 Theta preceder imperfections
27 Item in a patch 49lsle-55 "Darn it all!" 

28 Mak.e powerful 50 Patrons 56 Nabisco 29 Big-band name 

product 31 X'd 
51 Indiana Jones 
perils 57EI­
32 Type of column 52 Actor Scott 
58 Coli. course 33 Words of explanation Get answers to any three clues
35 "i" piece? by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
36 Oral stumbles 5656 (75tt each minute).
40 Wood hyacinth 





Tonight in the Huddle 9pm 
Show everyone how talented you really are! 

Musical Stuff And More! 

~~"?uewat 
Today, February 17 Joy Harjo 
Reading will be held at 7:30 in the Library Auditorium, with a reception in the Library Lounge immediately following 
Singin' In The Rain 8 & 10:30 PM 
Montgomery Theatre $1 
S'nJDENT UNION BOAKD 

-~-------­

SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, February 17, 1994 
Big East may be calling, but will the Irish respond? 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Head coach Muffet McGraw and the Notre Dame women's basketball team will play host to LaSalle tonight. 
1HE BIG IJIUJIT /T I~ Alift 
Georgetown Connecticut St. John's Villanova Seton Hall Providence 
Georgetown Connecticut St. John's Villanova Seton Hall Providence Notre Dame DePaul 
{<·wNotie.···•oirne 
nett~;; fall 
By G.R. NELSON 
S mWrirer 

In a thrilling match. the Michigan State Spartans out­lasted the Notre Dame men's volleyball team, winning in five games, 15-10,11~15,1-15, 16-14, and 15-6. 
The lrish played their strongest match "of the season and came within a point of de­feating the favored Spartans, but Michigan SL made the big play. 
"They are an experienced team that knows how to make plays at crunch time," said coach Jennifer Slosar. 
However, she was also quick to compliment her own team. "Everyone just played incredible," added the coach. 
And, for the most part; she was right. Notre Dame played spectacularly for most of the match. 
Michigan St. won game one rather convincingly, keeping one step ahead of the Irish. But in game two, the 1rish bounced back. 
After falling behind 10-8, the team rallied to win thanks pri­marily to the play from cap­tain Brian Ceponis and Leo Casas. When it appeared that the Spartans might take con-
see MEN I page 17 
West Virginia Temple Rutgers Virginia Tech 
West Virginia Temple Rutgers Virginia Tech Syracuse Miami Boston College Pittsburgh 

Irish to host Explorers 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sporrs Writer 

The Notre Dame women's basketball team will shoot for their sixth straight win tonight, as they play host to LaSalle Uni­versity in a Midwestern Colle­giate Conference matchup tonight at the J.A.C.C. 
The Irish are 16-5 overall, and sit at top of the MCC with a 7-1 conference record. The Irish last defeated lowly Evansville, thrashing the Aces 89-62 on the road last Saturday afternoon. LaSalle, which is 15­7 overall and 4-4 in conference play, comes into tonight's game having lost their last two games. 
The E"_;Jlorers will be looking to avenge their loss to Notre Dame earlier in the season, when the Irish beat them 92-73 on their home court on January 
15. The visiting Explorers are led by senior center Mary Heller, who averages 15.4 points, 8.1 rebounds, and 3.4 steals per game. Besides the versatile Heller, LaSalle also features Chrissie Donahue, who is the team's second leading scorer and rebounder with 12.3 points and 6.8 boards per con­test. 
The Irish are playing re­markably well as a team, re­ceiving terrific performances from both their starters and their bench. 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 

Is it time for the Notre Dame men's basketball team to make 
a conference call? 

Popular opinion says yes and the Big East Conference may provide the first serious oppor­tunity within weeks. 
The Big East is considering expansion and Notre Dame and DePaul are apparently its top candidates. 
A conference study, expected to conclude in the next three or four weeks, is examining the possibility of adding the Irish and the Blue Demons as basketball-only members. 
Only six of its 14 current members do not compete in football. The conference is also considering inviting football­only members West Virginia, Temple, Rutgers and Virginia Tech to compete in basketball. 
That would give the Big East eight schools competing in both basketball and football and only six competing in basketball only. 
Adding Notre Dame and De­Paul as basketball-only mem­bers would balance the scales and better protect the interests of the non-football schools, a source within the conference said Wednesday. 
But is it in Notre Dame's best interests? The university is studying the 
Freshman sensation Beth Morgan continues to lead the Irish on offense, pouring in 17 points per outing, and junior Letitia Bowen remains the team's top rebounder, pulling down 9.5 boards while scoring 
10.5 points per game. 

The point guard position con­tinues to pay dividends, with both senior floor leader Kara Leary and freshman back-up Jeannine Augustin playing well as of late. Tootie Jones has con­tributed on both offense and defense at the center position, and senior guard Sherri Orlosky remains a serious threat from behind the three point arc. 
Orlosky. who led the Irish with eight rebounds and fin­ished second in scoring with 19 points in last weekend's victory, including a 4-4 performance from three point territory, real­izes that the Irish must stay fo­cused in order to assure a vic­tory. 
"Tomorrow will be a tough game," said Orlosky, who is third in scoring for the Irish with 9.8 points per contest. "LaSalle is a good team, and · Heller is a great player. We're on a winning streak, and play­ing well. We have a good deal of confidence coming into the game, and hope to come away with a victory." 
Today's game is the first and only home game of the month, 
possibility of joining a confer­ence in men's basketball, and athletic director Dick Rosenthal expects answers within a 
month. 

"We are making a genuine, honest appraisal, and it would be premature for me to say now that we are going to be out soliciting conference affilia­tion," he told the Chicago Tribune last week. 
But it may be the Big East do­ing the soliciting. When it com­pletes its study sometime in the next month, the conference 
schools will vote on possible new members. A two-thirds vote is required for admission. 
What remains unclear is whether or not Notre Dame is interested in joining the Big East-or any conference-for basketball. 
Rosenthal has been the epicenter of public scorn in recent years for keeping the Irish basketball program out of a conference. Many people believe that such a move is the cure-all for Notre Dame's bas­ketball blues. 
"Notre Dame has a mystique about it, but its basketball has been hurt by a lack of affiliation with a league," Providence coach Rick Barnes said after playing the Irish earlier this season. "(Joining the Big East) would make Notre Dame a top­five program." 
But Notre Dame officials have 

Notre Dame (9-14) has had nearly a week away from competition after beating Hofstra 76-63 Friday. No. 21 Marquette (17-6) bounced back from a double-OT loss to Cincinnati with a 55-48 win over VA. Tech Tuesday. 
Damon Key, a 6-foot·B senior, is the Warriors main offensive threat, along with ?-footer Jim Mcilvaine. 
Monty Williams will likely draw another tough defensive assignment in Key. What's "Key" for the Irish is getting offensive production from someone other than Williams. And Lamarr Justice will have to continue his steady play at point guard. 
Keith Kurowski is expected to play despite spraining his ankle against Hofstra. 
never been convinced. 

Similar studies have been done in the past and the Irish haven't been close to joining a conference. 
But the current situation seems to satisfy each side. The inclusion of DePaul and Notre 
see BIG EAST I page 18 

and after the final buzzer sounds, the team will be left with just four more games, three of which are conference matchups, before the MCC tour­nament begins on March 5. 

Inside SPORTS 

Historic Comeback Norwegian Nuttiness 
Duke Victorious Guard Travis Ford and 
Head coach Mike Kentucky downed LSU 
The absolute latest from 
Krzyzewski saw his Blue last night after once 
Lillehammer, including the 
Devils down Virginia last trailing by 31 points. 
bobsled, hockey, and, of 
night.
. course, the luge. 

I
Q99
see page 12 see page 13 see pages 16-1 7 Lillehammer'94 





