

Thursday, January 13, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 67 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Underage drinking cause of early dosing of local bar 
By JOHN LUCAS tow the mark," he said. "If Associate News Editor there's more trouble, they know what the consequences 
An agreement with South are." Bend will allow The Commons The Anastasios asked for the to remain open for six more agreement, reasoning that it months, but the city -citing would be easier to sell the bar concerns about underage pa­if it were still operating with a trons -is requiring the bar to liquor license, Derda said. close every night at 10 p.m. 
As part of the agreement with Problems with minors in the the city and the Indiana bar provoked both state and lo­Alcoholic Beverage cal officials to seek a suspen­Commission, the business, lo­sion of the liquor license or a cated at 826 N. Eddy Street, change in ownership of the bar, will lose its liquor license deputy city attorney Aladean unless owners Pasquale and DeRose told the Tribune. City Gregory Anastasio are able to officials "abhor and condemn sell the bar by this summer. the actions of The Commons 
"We feel if we close at 10 management," she said. p.m., we will take care of the The Commons has been problem as far as minors are caught several times with mi­concerned," Mitchell nors in the bar, dating back to Heppenheimer, lawyer for the 1979. Anastasios told the South Bend A police raid in the fall of Tribune. 1992, in which police cited over 
If there are further incidents 100 minors, including Notre of minors caught in the bar, the Dame students, may have pro­extension would be immedi­voked action by the city. ately revoked, according to Police cited four minors dur­Joseph Derda, president of the ing another raid during a St. Joseph County Alcoholic November football game this 
Beverage Board. fall. The Observer/John Bingham 
Derda said he expects no fur­Pasquale and Gregory ther problems with minors and Anastasio would not comment The sign in the window may say open but no later than 10 p.m. Underage drinking violations have forced The Commons. "They have to for this article. 
The Commons to reduce hours and the owners will be selling the bar by summer. 

Donation aids Hispanic students Clinton requests special 
Special to The Observer dent, in response to the gift. Foundation had provided "To those shared concerns now $350,000 for the internships 
counsel for investigation 
Whirlpool Corporation and is added our mutual desire to and endowment over the past 
Whirlpool Foundation will pro­prepare greater numbers of seven years. The new gifts dou­ByJOHN KING investigation of the Whitewater vide a total of $700,000 to the people of color to play leader­ble that support. Associated Press Development Corp. But he said University of Notre Dame to ship roles in the increasingly Headquartered in Benton that "innuendo, political
fund significant expansion of multicultural world market­Harbor, Mich., Whirlpool WASHINGTON posturing and irresponsibleboth the Whirlpool Internship place. Whirlpool's most gener­Corporation is the world's lead­Yielding to relentless political accusations" by RepublicansProgram for Notre Dame MBA ous gift will be a valuable tool ing manufacturer and marketer pressure, President Clinton had given Clinton little choice students and the Whirlpool in the University's and the of major home appliances. The asked Wednesday that Attorney but to call for an independentFoundation endowment for corporation's efforts to achieve company manufactures in 11 General Janet Reno name a investigation.MBA scholarships. that goal." countries and markets products special counsel to investigate "This controversy is becom­The expanded internship pro­The gift, to be spread over in more than 120. Whirlpool his investment in an Arkansas ing too much of a distraction," 
gram will include a component seven years, will provide Foundation, the primary phil­land development. Stephanopoulos said. "The designed specifically to support $50,000 annually to fund a full anthropic arm of Whirlpool "The president requests that president wants to get on with and encourage outstanding tuition scholarship with stipend Corporation. was established in this investigation be conducted the vital issues facing the 
Hispanic MBA students. for a Hispanic MBA student 1951 to assist non-profit orga­as expeditiously as possible," American people." 
"Notre Dame's partnership interning with Whirlpool, plus nizations dedicated to improv­Clinton adviser George Stephanopoulos repeatedlywith Whirlpool in the education internships only for two more ing the quality of life in the Stephanopoulos said in an­said that none of Clinton's crit­and training of future business students. An additional $50,000 communities where Whirlpool nouncing the White House's ics on Whitewater have raised executives has spanned a half­per year will build the operates. Since its founding, abrupt strategy shift. any specific allegation of century, motivated by such Whirlpool Foundation endow­Whirlpool Foundation has Stephanopoulos said Clinton wrongdoing. He said the White shared concerns as business ment, a permanent source of granted more than $60 million had full confidence that the House was still of the opinionethics," said Father Edward funding for the program. to a variety of charitable orga­Justice Department could con­that no special counsel was Malloy, Notre Dame's presi-Whirlpool and Whirlpool nizations. duct its own impartial necessary. But he said the 
political climate had forced the 
president's hand. 


Faulkner cracks gender barrier at The Citadel 
"The president believes it is 
important to take whatever 

By BRUCE SMITH porters to register in Bond Hall, of Shannon Faulkner," senior Since Faulkner sued, five in­steps he can to assure complete 
Associated Press the turreted administration Will Benton said. cidents of vandalism have been confidence in the federal law 
building that dominates one Faulkner initially was ac­directed against her and her enforcement system," 
CHARLESTON, S.C. end of The Citadel's parade cepted by the college after she the family -the most recent Stephanopoulos said. "He be­
The gates of The Citadel ground. had references to her gender when vandals poured sand, rot­lieves the integrity of high offi­
opened to a woman armed with "I didn't expect all of this and deleted from her high school ten eggs and spoiled food on cials must be without ques­
a court order Wednesday. But I didn't really expect to be transcript. The Citadel rejected her car. tion." 
after Shannon Faulkner regis­here," Faulkner said as she her application when it discov­U.S. Attorney J. P. Strom said In making the announcement, 
tered to take day classes, the advanced through the crush to ered she was a woman, and she the FBI was investigating Stephanopoulos released a 
nation's top judge blocked her meet her academic adviser, sued, challenging the constitu­threats against Faulkner's brief letter from White House 
from attending them. register and pay tuition. "I ac­tionality of the all-male admis­"personal safety" and unspeci­counsel Bernard Nussbaum to 
At the request of the 151-tually expected the battle to be sions policy fied threats against her family Reno requesting the investiga­
year-old military college, Chief a lot longer." Last August, a fed!)ral judge and attorneys. tion. Stephanopoulos said that 
Justice William Rehnquist She said she was treated said Faulkner could attend "I know I feel safe here on questions about whom Reno 
granted a stay to keep the 18-nicely by college officials and classes, but not join the corps of campus, it's just the off-campus would name, or the timetable 
year-old student from attending signed up for biology, math, cadets, while her lawsuit pro­stuff I do have to worry about," or scope of the investigation, 
classes Thursday. English, history and education. ceeds. The 4th U.S. Circuit she said. should be directed to the 
The Citadel and Virginia But she said she felt "over­Court of Appeals refused to She will stay with a Justice Department. 
Military Institute are the na­whelmed" by the attention. overturn the order. Charleston family that has re­During a news conference in 
tion's only all-male, state-sup­"Everybody is saying, 'You're Faulkner, who . is from quested anonymity. Kiev, Ukraine, the president re­
ported military colleges. making history,' "she said. Powdersville, said she hoped to After registering, Faulkner fused to discuss his abrupt 
Admissions policies at both are Though cadets promised to become a full-fledged member toured campus escorted by strategy shift. "I have nothing 
the target of federal lawsuits. treat her with respect, they of the gray-uniformed corps of Lynn Hook, one of 1,649 to say about that on this trip," 
Faulkner, who plans to major kept hoping for a last-minute cadets within a year. women who take evening class­Clinton said tersely. He did say 
in education, walked several reprieve. "I don't think you can get the es at The Citadel. Hook sup­that most of those who had 
hundred yards through a driv­"We don't want the class of full Citadel experience without ports keeping the corps of 
ing rain and a horde of re-1994 to be labeled as the year being a cadet," she said. cadets all male. see WHITEWATER I page 4 



--------~------------------­
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, January 13, 1994 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Obituary: The 
CoDlDlons, 

dead in 1994 
The advertisements in The Observer were so promising. 
"Heard the latest rumor?" they asked. "The Commons is still open." 
Those words put sparkles in the eyes of Commons patrons, skips in their step, glorious smiles on their faces. The news was met with the enthusi­asm of a second-semester ________ senior on a snow day. It was an excuse to celebrate, to toast South Bend's favorite bar and its local hero, Pasquale. 
Thank God, they were saying. The Commons is still open. 
Today, though, today is a different story. Today is a day Commons faithful knew was coming. 
Sure, the owners have fashioned a deal with the city allowing it to remain open for another six months until it can be sold. But the catch is that it must close its doors every night by 10 p.m. 
Today, the faithful are watching the slow death of The Commons. 
All right, not exactly. Maybe we're just wit­nessing the bar's emasculation, but the end appears imminent. Unless a new owner comes forward to carry on the tradition, students can close the book on another Five Corners bar. 
No longer will "The Uncommon meet at the South Bend, Ind., Commons." No longer will those ads entice students to come to the bar with tantilizing promises of free popcorn. No longer will the sixty-foot blue whale mural watch over its children and keep the peace. 
For Commons faithful, it's news that hits like a splitting hangover. 
Not that The Commons will lose business. For the last five months, the bar was only a pale imitation of its former self. All those bargain specials. The half-price pitchers and 24-ounce Budweisers for a buck-fifty. The gimmicks, the little-known 50-cent hotdog and taco specials. Even they failed to boost slumping business. 
A rent-a-cop slouched on the stool, not even bothering to card the few stragglers who hadn't caught on to the changing bar scene yet. They were reluctant to face the sad truth: The Commons generation is gone. The Uncommon have graduated. 
In recent months, patrons could spread out in the back booth, drink up the half-price swill and enjoy the latest offering of USA's "Up All Night." If the patrons were lucky, they might see the wreckage of a hit-and-run. 
Ah, but The Commons had its day. When "dive" wasn't a dirty word yelled out the car window on the way to Corby's, the new shiny bar with freshly-painted walls, Hollywood spon­sorship and a mascot named Rudy. 
The Linebacker has dancing and an eclectic, twisted combination of the 1970s and the 1990s. Coach's has the ball court and the putting greens. Bridget's has an Irish theme in Ireland's adopted city. The Commons, well, The Commons had nothing to offer. 
The Commons was the place for students to go if they knew they'd be vicious, pathetic, slob­bering drunks and didn't want to publicize it. It really is a dive, with all the privileges and bene­fits therein. 
And that's why it was such a classic. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Michael O'Hara Laura Ferguson  Production Cheryl Moser Jackie Moser  
Sports Jon Jensen  Accent Matt Carbone Allison Ebel  
Lab Tech Eric Ruethling  Graphics Chris Mullins  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Transsexual sues over prison rape 
WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration and a transsexual inmate 
allegedly raped in federal prison in Indiana clashed 
Wednesday in a Supreme Court showdown over the duty 
of prison officials to protect one inmate from another. 
Raped inmates should not collect monetary damages 
from prison officials unless the officials reacted with 
"deliberate indifference" to "a considerable risk... not 
just the normal risk of being in prison," argued Justice 
Department lawyer Paul Bender. But Elizabeth 
Alexander, a lawyer for transsexual inmate Dee Farmer, 
said the risk of putting Farmer into a maximum-security 
prison's general inmate population was so obvious that 
the deliberate indifference of officials can be inferred. 
Farmer, 27, has the appearance and demeanor of a 
woman, enhanced by silicone breast implants and female 
hormones. But Farmer has male organs. Farmer, who in 
1986 began serving a 20-year term for credit card fraud, 
sued over a 1989 rape that allegedly occurred about a 
week after the inmate arrived at a federal maximum­
security prison in Terre Haute, Ind. A decision is expect­
ed by July. 
Ju declares Jackson innocent of son theft 
Michael Jackson did not steal his hits "Thriller," "The Girl is Mine" and "We Are the World" from two other song­writers, a federal jury ruled Wednesday. The panel deliberated for just over three hours before returning with its verdict in the copyright infringement trial against Jackson and three others. ''I'm just very happy that all my clients' innocence has been reaf­
firmed by the jury," lawyer Robert Rotstein said. "We always thought that there was absolutely no merit to the suit." Reynaud Jones and Robert Smith, two childhood neighbors of the Jackson family in Gary, Ind., alleged parts of their songs were pirated for the three Jackson hits, including "We Are the World." 

Fugitive porn convict dead, hostages freed 
OKLAHOMA CITY 
A 19-hour standoff between a heavily armed prison escapee and police ended today with the fugitive dead and two hostages free. The hostages told police that their captor, Manuel North, shot himself. Police moved in and found North's body. Nobody else was injured, al­though several explosives detonated Tuesday after North tossed them onto pavement outside his brother's asphalt company. North, a former adult bookstore operator, had been serving a five-year sentence for distributing obscene materials. He failed to return when he was allowed out on a pass Nov. 7 from the Lawton Community Corrections Center. North, 53, took lawyer Charles Hugh Holdstock and asphalt company employee R. B. Morgan hostage there after being talked out of venting his frustration in a more public place, said his brother. 


Driver killed b rock thrown from over ass 
MIAMI, Okla. 
A motorist was killed after a rock thrown from an over­pass crashed through her car's windshield and struck her in the head. Sheila Rene Mayfield's grandmother -a passenger-managed to regain control of the car. The grandmother, Velta Ball, 66, and the victim's sister, Shelly Wells-also a passenger-were treated for head injuries at a hospital and released. Mayfield, 25, of Jasper, Mo., was killed Tuesday night as she drove on the Will Rogers Turnpike in northeastern Oklahoma, near the Missouri line. Authorities estimated the rock weighed fivepounds. 


NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 13. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
.....,..................._~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure ~ ~ rl\ 
H L B IS.'SJ !Til 0 £ZJ 81l ¥ ~ ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vta AAOCI<!I!ed Pmss 
LOS ANGELES 



500 miles 
SOOkm 
AP Katmandu, Nepal is becoming the gambling center of the Asian subcontinent, especially for Indians. 



Photo may depict Abraham Lincoln at 34 
NEW YORK 
The 19th century photograph has Abraham Lincoln's well-known mouth-half in a smile, half in a frown. But the image will have historians grinning ear-to-ear if it's really the 16th president, since it would be the earliest known photograph of Lincoln. · The 3 1/2-by-3-inch oval photograph was found in Pittsford, American Heritage magazine says in its February-March issue. Joseph Bruberger of North Haven, Conn., a photography histori­an, dates the picture -a daguerreotype -from 1843, based on the thickness of the glass and the style of brass mat covering it. That would make Lincoln 34 years old. 


Mississippi legislature considers new song 
JACKSON, Miss. 
It's time for Mississippi to hum a new tune, say some lawmakers fed up with an official state song they associ­ate with a segregationist governor. And who could make music better for Mississippi than the state's own country star, Charley Pride, and his song "Roll on Mississippi." The Legislature may act this month on the proposal. The present song, "Go Mississippi," had first been former Gov. Ross Barnett's campaign tune in 1959. Barnett tried to block integration of Ole Miss. 

Atlanta 53 43 Baltimore 36 32 Boston 33 26 Chicago 34 16 Columbus 38 33 Dallas 54 39 Denver 49 21 Philadelphia 39 36 Los Angeles 77 47 Phoenix 68 40 Miami 83 71 St. Louis 40 34 Minneapolis 19 11 San Francisco 66 43 New Orleans 57 53 Seattle 50 47 New York 34 31 Washington, D.C. 37 34 
r-:u,<day,Janua<y 13, 1994 The Observer • RUSSIA page 3 


By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
KIEV, Ukraine 

President Clinton nailed down an agreement Wednesday with Ukraine to eliminate the third­largest nuclear arsenal in the world by the end of the century. Closing the deal, he offered increased economic assistance and security guarantees. 
After a short airport meeting with Ukraine's President Leonid Kravchuk, Clinton said the accord would be signed in Moscow by them and Russian President Boris Yeltsin on Friday. 
He then headed for the Russian capital for a summit meeting clouded by rising dis­content over Yeltsin's reform programs and uncertainty about how much more money the United States could provide. 
Clinton arrived at the Moscow airport a little before 1 a.m. lo­cal time. He was greeted in light snow by a delegation in­cluding Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin and was handed a bouquet of flowers by a woman in the group. He made no statement before leaving for his hotel. 
Clinton said earlier his "urgent task" in Moscow would be to press for reform and against growing nationalism. 
Wednesday in the Czech capi­tal of Prague, Clinton won re­luctant approval from the lead­ers of Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia for his Partnership for Peace program. They had wanted full membership in NATO but ac­cepted the offer of a coopera­tive arrangement as a first step. 
At a joint news conference with Kravchuk, who wanted the Kiev stopover as a prestige boost, Clinton said Ukraine could count on assurances from Washington and Moscow that it would not be attacked with nu­clear weapons. 
Moreover, Clinton said, "We 




Ukraine accord ready for signing Russian parliament 
are prepared to increase our support substantially." A senior 
U.S. official said on the flight to Kiev from Prague that U.S. aid of $155 million a year could be doubled or increased even be­yond that. 
Additionally, Ukraine is to re­ceive $177 million from a fund set up by Congress to cover costs of dismantling 1,800 nu­clear warheads and up to $1 billion once the uranium in the warheads is reprocessed and sold for use in nuclear reactors. 
In the past, the Ukrainian parliament has blocked moves to carry out Ukraine's pledge in 1991 to get rid of its long-range nuclear weapons and to join the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. 
Some members of parliament are still skeptical of the accord, but Clinton has said he was confident Kravchuk could get it implemented by executive or­der. 
Kravchuk hailed the agree­ment. "I am sure that this day and the forthcoming days open the way for the world for dis­armament and for the elimina­tion of nuclear weapons," he said. 
In a gesture of friendship, Clinton said he had invited Kravchuk to visit the United States in March. 
"This breakthrough will en­hance the security of Ukraine, the United States, Russia and the entire world," Clinton said at the news conference near the end of a stop that lasted scarcely three hours. 
In addition to the promise of Western aid, Russia; which pro­vides Ukraine with about 96 percent of its energy, has promised to sell oil and gas at bargain rates and to respect Ukraine's territory. 
Clinton's summit with Yeltsin is even more challenging than shepherding the arms accord with Ukraine. 
The trip to Moscow was planned initially to showcase U.S. support for political and economic reform. But the hard­ships that abrupt change have caused the Russian people ­along With the growing political strength of ultranationalists ­have turned Clinton's visit into a tough diplomatic test. 

Expectations even from re­formers are modest. 
"This is a meeting of friendly presidents -that's all,"· Grigory Yavlinsky, leader of a pro-reform bloc in parliament, said. "What kind of concrete results can one expect today and here in Moscow?" 
Still, Yeltsin ally Mikhail Poltoranin, a deputy in the lower chamber of parliament, said, "Clinton will smell the air of Russia and will understand that (the situation) here is more complex than what is perceived in the United States." 
Clinton himself said in Prague that in Moscow "my urgent task will be to try to continue to press the path of democracy and reform and America's sup­port for it in Russia." 
"They are a great people with a great history and a great fu­ture," he said. However, with all the change of the past two years, he said, Russia again must "define itself as a nation.. . I mean, after all, this is a 
rather  new  experience  for  
them."  
Russian reformers are  di­ 

vided, some determined to move ahead at full speed, oth­ers inclined to slow down and to soften the shock of transition to a free-market system. 
"The forces of reform need to find ways to work together and to speak, if not with one voice, at least with a common mes­sage," Clinton said in Prague. He also predicted "some rough spots along the way" for the Yeltsin programs. 
Within his own administra­tion there is division on how whether Clinton should counsel Yeltsin to adopt social welfare programs. 
By CANDICE HUGHES 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Twenty-four years ago, a tall, bearded student got off the train from Helsinki and made his way to the faded comforts of the National Hotel near Red Square. It was a cold, clear New Year's Eve. 
Bill Clinton, a young Oxford scholar on holiday, was making his first trip to Moscow. He is returning, this time as the American president, to a far­different city. 
Back then, the contrast be­tween the forbidding Soviet capital and the turmoil back home must have struck him. 
The Beatles were still to­gether and Jimi Hendrix was still alive. Movies like "Easy Rider" demarcated the ragged 
faces internal threats 
By LARRY RYCKMAN 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

With President Clinton arriv­ing Wednesday to bolster Russi!ln democracy, Russia's new parliament was already degenerating into a free-for-all of bickering, name-calling and threats. 
A dozen anti-American demonstrators who stood in a light snow outside the U.S. Embassy said Clinton shouldn't even bother coming to Moscow. "Clinton -we don't need your advice" said one demonstra­tor's sign. 
Clinton and President Boris Yeltsin are scheduled to hold three days of talks on nuclear weapons, the possible expan­sion of NATO and the sorry state of the Russian economy. 
Clinton also planned meetings with leading politicians, includ­ing Yeltsin's opponents, to get a first-hand look at Russia's emerging democracy. 
His guest list did not include ultranationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky, whose racist state­ments and outrageous com­ments about reclaiming former czarist lands have made him an outcast in Western circles. 
Zhirinovsky aimed his barbs at fellow Russians on Wednesday, calling a leader of the prominent Women of Russia party "a snake" and saying the party should be called "the Old Maids of Russia." 
Three leading parliamentary groups stormed out of a meet­ing on how to divvy up leader­ship positions after Zhirinovsky demanded to chair the session. Zhirinovsky also announced he wants to be speaker of parlia­ment. 
The three parties threatened to bar Zhirinovsky's deputies from ruling bodies in the pow­erful lower house of parlia­ment, the State Duma, if he persists in breaking parliamen­tary rules by speaking out of turn. 
Zhirinovsky also was targeted by a top politician who claimed in a newspaper interview Wednesday to have proof that Zhirinovsky is a former KGB officer whose party is backed by the secret police. Zhirinovsky has denied any KGB links. 
Zhirinovsky, the Communists and their allies form an anti­Yeltsin majority in parliament, which met for the first time Tuesday. 
The deputies, elected Dec. 12, have been busy selecting com­mittee chairmen, and speakers and attending to other house­keeping matters. They have fought over everything from the rules for forming blocs to when to take a break. 
Russian newspapers didn't think much of parliament's first day. 
"What did the first day show? Symptoms of an infantile disor­der or manifestations of inca­pacity?" the newspaper Trud wondered. 
"Only lunch at the Duma was held in an organized way," said a headline in Novaya Gazeta. 
Finance Minister Boris Fyodorov, a member of the pro­Yeltsin Russia's Choice bloc, was even harsher. saying the Duma was "just like a joke." 
Yeltsin's pro-reform support­ers, who once hoped to control parliament, now find them­selves in the minority and on the defensive. 


Clinton makes return to Russia 
edges of the generation gap. 
Just-ended 1969 had been the year America put a man on the moon, the year of Woodstock, of massive demon­strations against the war in Vietnam. The Cold War was in full frost. No American presi­
dent  had  ever  set  foot  in  
Moscow.  
When  the  23-year-old  

Arkansas traveler got off the train in Moscow, he stepped through a looking glass. The Soviet Union was a depressed, repressed police state -a re­verse image of the tumultuous West. 
Clinton was in Moscow only a few days. He said he visited a friend of a friend, toured the city, met other Americans stay­ing at the National. 
Political foes tried to portray the trip as something sinister 
jUST A liTTLE 
DEBRIEFING: 
Kate 
the Great 



Gorman 
is 21! 

Happy Birthday! 
Love, Your Fellow Ducks 


HOUSES FOR RENT 

1994-95 
4-6 Bedrooms Fully Furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers 

Call laurie McKelvey 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 


CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 7:30 AND 9:30 
287-4989 

during the 1992 campaign ­old news now. 
Moscow presented a hard surface, a facade of enforced stability. Behind the Kremlin walls, Leonid Brezhnev was consolidating his grip on power. 
Jeans and rock records were black market items, prized symbols of the West. "Dr. Zhivago," Boris Pasternak's tale of love amid revolution and civil war, was banned. 
It was the year the Writers Union expelled the nation's greatest living novelist, Alexander Solzhenitsyn. The long persecution of dissident Andrei Sakharov, father of the Soviet H-bomb and man of con­science, had just begun. 
It also was the year an ob­scure Siberian construction en­gineer named Boris Yeltsin be­came a full-time Communist Party official. 
The returning Clinton steps through a looking glass again. This time, he comes as presi­dent of the surviving super­power -with that Siberian engineer as his host. 
The Observer • NEWS Thursday, January 13, 1994 




Investigation of firm launched 
By RICHARD KEIL earlier represented Madison in Development Corp. Associated Press an effort to win approval from Federal investigators have 
Arkansas regulators for a been trying to learn whether WASHINGTON recapitalization effort. thrift funds were diverted ei­
Federal regulators have Federal conflict of interest ther to Whitewater or to retire launched a formal investigation regulations generally prohibit Clinton's 1984 gubernatorial into whether the former law contractors from representing campaign debt. The White firm of Hillary Rodham Clinton the government in thrift failure House asked that Attorney and a top Justice Department cases where the same law or General Janet Reno name a official misled them about the accounting firm represents or special counsel investigate "the firm's dealings with a failed once represented the failed Whitewater matter." Arkansas thrift, an officials S&L. The FDIC probe, which is sep­confirmed Wednesday. An official familiar with the arate from the ongoing criminal 
"Our legal division is looking investigation said that so far matter, seeks to learn whether into whether we were misled by FDIC officials have uncovered the Rose firm was forthcoming the Rose Law Firm back in no documents indicating that about its ties to Madison. 1989," Federal Deposit the Rose firm ever revealed its Insurance Corp. spokesman previous relationship with When Rose was seeking the David Barr said. "We're looking Madison. contract to represent the FDIC into all aspects of our dealings The probe began several in 1989, Vincent Foster, then a with Rose, and nothing has weeks ago, the official said. partner in the Rose firm, wrote been resolved yet." Also on Wednesday, the FDIC officials that "the firm 
In 1989, the Rose firm, of White House bowed to biparti­does not represent any savings which Hillary Rodham Clinton san demands for an indepen­and loan associations in state was a partner, was paid dent probe of President or federal regulatory matters," $400,000 by the FDIC to sue the Clinton's ties to James using the present tense. Foster auditors of the failed Madison McDougal, the owner of the later became deputy White Guaranty Savings and Loan failed thrift and a co-investor House counsel to Clinton and Association. However, Rose had with the Clintons in Whitewater committed suicide last year. 
Motion filed to obtain diaries 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK Packwood, R-Ore. incrimination. Associated Press "We filed a motion asking the Jackson ordered Packwood 
court if we could intervene with during a court hearing last WASHINGTON a sealed motion," a Justice month to turn his diaries over 
The Justice Department has Department official said to the court until he decides joined the Senate Ethics Wednesday, adding that the whether Senate investigators Committee's effort to obtain a papers were filed in U.S. can see them. court order to enforce a sub­District Court here last During the hearing, Michael poena for the personal diaries Thursday. The official declined Davidson, the Senate's chief of embattled Sen. Bob to be identified by name. counsel, said Packwood had 
U.S. District Judge Thomas altered the journals because he tiona! role in publicly examin­Jackson is considering the expected them to be subpoe­
ing the complicated issues, no Senate's request to order naed in the Ethics Committee 
matter what the president de­Packwood to comply with the probe.cides about the appointment of 
. Ethics Committee's subpoena He said Packwood had re­a special counsel." for the diaries. trieved the diary tapes from his 
Democrats, however, ques­The Senate Ethics Committee transcriber and altered them 
tioned the need for such an in­is investigating allegations that within the previous four vestigation and said it could, as Packwood made unwanted sex­months. 
in the case of the special Iran­ual advances toward more than Packwood told the tran­
Contra investigations, delay and 
two dozen women. scriber the "reason he wanted otherwise complicate any Information disclosed during the tapes back was because Justice Department or inde­that inquiry has led to a crimi­there was a possibility of a sub­pendent probes. nal investigation into the sena­poena," Davidson said. 
Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D­tor's dealings with lobbyists. Packwood's attorney, Jacob 
Ohio, called the Dole-Michel 
The Oregonian newspaper in Stein, told the committee that proposal "a painfully blatant Portland, Ore., which initially the diary transcripts differ from attempt to do political harm to disclosed the Justice the tapes in some "discreet the president and thoroughly Department's action in instances," but that it was without merit." Wednesday's editions, said the unlikely the changes involved department sought both copies materials before the committee. Sen. Russell Feingold, D-Wis., of the diaries and Packwood's He told Jackson that he did said congressional probes of diary tapes for a grand jury. not believe Packwood changedthe Iran-Contra affair and Packwood has opposed the the diaries after the Senate Watergate "involved miscon­subpoenas issued by both the subpoena was issued Oct. 20 
duct in office by an administra­Senate and the Justice and that he had not submitted tion. That is very different from Department, arguing that they any altered material to the an investigation which focuses violate his constitutional right committee. on events that took place prior to privacy and his Fifth The Justice Department sub­to Mr. Clinton's election." Amendment right against self-poenaed the diaries Nov. 19. 

Thursday, January 13, 1994 
U.S., Pakistani disagree on engagement methods 
By MICHAEL PHILLIPS 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU, Somalia 
The U.S. military command in Somalia has pulled most of its sniper teams off Pakistani U.N. posts in a dispute over how aggressive sharpshooters should be in firing at armed Somalis. 
The sniper teams were with­drawn partly because of the coming pullout of American forces, a senior U.S. official said Wednesday. But he said the move was hastened by dis­putes with the Pakistanis over when to fire. 
The Americans accuse the Pakistanis of withholding fire for fear of provoking the locals. The Pakistanis say they're do­ing their job with the utmost care and the Americans may be taking too many risks. 
The conflict followed three in­cidents involving American snipers, including one Sunday in which a pregnant Somali tea seller was apparently killed by a U.S. Marine sniper firing from atop a Pakistani post. 
• 
On Friday, U.S. Marines seriously wounded a medical orderly who witnesses said was preparing for bed on the roof of the hospital residence, a com­mon sleeping place for staff. The Marines said the man had a light machine gun. 

• 
Last week, a Navy Seal sniper team fired at two Somalis who the sharpshooters said were carrying a light ma­chine gun. The Pakistanis say the Somalis had weapons per­mitted under U.N. rules. Many civilians carry such weapons to ward otT bandits. 


The U.S. officer, speaking on· condition of anonymity, said the incidents brought the dispute over weapons use to a head. "The U.S. feels the Pakistanis are not engaging under the rules," he said. 
U.N. rules for peacekeepers in Somalia say troops may shoot anyone with a machine gun or other heavy weapon, but may only kill someone with an assault rifle or other small arm if there is an immediate threat. 
"When you let up on the rules of engagement, it's an in­cremental erosion so that even­tually we'll be back at the situation we were in at the end of October with weapons openly on the streets," the officer said. 
The Pakistanis see the situa­tion differently, perhaps be­cause they are supplying new troops to the U.N. Somali peacekeeping operation just as the United States moves toward a complete withdrawal by March 31. 
The Pakistanis also feel the Americans are violating an agreement under which Pakistanis -not Americans ­decide whether to shoot Somalis close to a Pakistani post. 
"The Pakistanis are sensitive to the atmosphere of the city ... but we are performing our du­ties to the best of our abilities," Brig. Gen. Saulat Abbas, com­mander of the 5,000-man Pakistani contingent, said in an interview Wednesday. 
"The Somalis know if they have heavy weapons and they pass a Pakistani checkpoint, they will be engaged," Saulat said. 
He pointed to recent inci­dents, including one last Thursday in which Pakistani and U.S. troops fired jointly at three Somalis armed with a light machine gun, killing one. 
The Pakistanis have su!Tered more casualties than any other contingent in the multinational 
U.N. force. 
"You can't shoot just any­one," said Pakistani Capt. Mohamed Taha. "We're here for humanitarian purposes, not to kill everyone." 
The Pakistanis have also crit­icized the weapons American snipers use. 
In Sunday's incident, the Marines said they fired two shots at a Somali riding with a machine gun through a crowd­ed market area 500 yards from the Pakistani post. 

--~---~·~~---~-­
pageS 
I 
~ 
J 
The Observer/John Bingham

Season award 

Nikki Wellmann, student body vice-president, presents Tim Ruddy an award during halftime of yesterday's basketball game. The poster was presented as a gift from the students. 




Colotnbia announces U.S. aid 
By ANDREW SELSKY 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA, Colombia 

American soldiers are helping the Colombian government hunt drug traffickers and guer­rillas by building a military base, operating radars and training Colombian troops, of­ficials said Wednesday. 
The announcement is likely to heighten protests from Colombians already objecting to 
U.S. soldiers on the Pacific Coast on what the Defense Ministry billed as a "humani­tarian mission." 
'In a new policy of openness, Colombian military officials gave details about the presence of more than 250 American sol­diers in various parts of the country -a subject until now of only vague media reports. 
Officials did not say when the soldiers arrived. 
A Defense Ministry commu­nique said that 250 American soldiers are also: 
• Building a military base along a jungle river in the heart of guerrilla territory. 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 

1994-95 

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to ~pply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation of The Observer. Applicants.should have a strong.interes~ in journalism and possess sohd management, puohc rela~tons and communications skills. Previous newspaper expenence or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to David Kinney by 5 p.m. Wednesday, january 19, 1994. For additional information about the position or the application process, contact Kinney at 631-4542 or stop by the office on the third floor ofLaFortune Student Center. 
• 
Maintaining a system of radars built with U.S. assis­tance. 

• 
Giving "training and tech­nical assistance" to Colombian forces. 


Some politicians had objected even to the humanitarian mis­sion, which began last week in Juanchaco village, 45 miles west of Cali, home of the world's largest cocaine cartel. 
Dozens of people occupied a cathedral in the provincial capi­tal of lbague on Wednesday to protest the Juanchaco mission, in which 150 soldiers are to build a school, a clinic and a road. 
"We ache for your sovereign­ty, Colombia," read one ban­ner. 
The protesters, members of the opposition M-19 party, composed of former guerrillas and their followers, said they were beginning a hunger strike to protest the Juanchaco mis­sion. 
Senators and congressmen complain that the mission vio­lates Colombia's sovereignty and that President Cesar Gaviria invited the Americans without congressional autho­rization. 
The Cali cartel may also be pressuring politicians to protest the mission. 
Defense Ministry spokesman Jaime Vasquez said 32 American soldiers are building a base in Puerto Lopez, 85 miles southeast of Bogota. It will serve as a base for military boats to patrol the Metica River, which runs through the tropical plains where leftist guerrillas and drug traffickers operate. 
Sixty-two U.S. soldiers are maintaining a radar system in Colombia which in the past has netted airplanes carrying drug shipments, Vasquez said. 
Nine American soldiers are training and providing techni­cal assistance to Colombian forces, the communique said, without giving details. Vasquez said it was not combat training. 
The U.S. Embassy refused to comment, saying it could not discuss operational informa­tion. 
Rough seas hamper oil spill cleanup efforts 
ByLISAHAMM 
Associated Press 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico 

An investigator pressed a tug­boat captain Wednesday to explain why he went to bed af­ter a tow line snapped to the barge that later spilled 750,000 gallons of oil near San Juan. 
An emergency tow line was set up, but broke a short time later after Roy McMichael had gone to sleep. The barge, which was carrying 1.5 million gallons of oil, ran aground on a reef early Friday. 
McMichael said he went to bed after the emergency line was connected because he was hit in the stomach by a line during the repair. He left his first mate in charge and kept the boats moving at full speed. 
"Everything in my opinion seemed OK," he said. "It wasn't necessary" to slow down, turn back or ask for help after the original line broke, he said. 
He said first mate Victor Martinez woke him two hours later to tell him the emergency line had broken. 
"But we couldn't find the barge," he said on the second day of a Coast Guard inquiry into the spill. 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 


1'9!i)' (I 1\.~th 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 

(219)277.. 1291
51408 31 North 

South Bend, IN 46637 Phone Answered 24 hrs. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
Bobbitt claitns abuse as defense 
By ANNE GEARAN Associated Press 
MANASSAS, Va. 

Her voice sometimes break­ing, Lorena Bobbitt told a jury Wednesday how her "dream marriage" quickly turned vio­lent as her husband repeatedly punched, slapped and kicked her and forced her to have sex. 
Mrs. Bobbitt, on trial for cut­ting off her husband's penis, said Bobbitt grabbed her one evening after they went to bed and forced her to have anal in­tercourse. Every time they had sex after that, she said, he would threaten to do it again. 
"He would say he would like to have that kind of sex. I would hopefully try not to let it hap­pen again," said Mrs. Bobbitt, who looked at the floor, twisted in her chair and spoke in a halting voice as she described the alleged abuse. 
Mrs. Bobbitt, 24, is charged with malicious wounding in the June 23 attack. If convicted, the Ecuadoran-born manicurist could get up to 20 years in prison and be deported. 
The defense claims that Mrs. Bobbitt was a battered wife dri­ven to temporary insanity when she mutilated her husband. She claims she was sexually assaulted the night of the muti­lation. 
Bobbitt, 26, was acquitted 
last year of that charge in a case that was handled by the same prosecutor, Commonwealth's Attorney Paul Ebert. Bobbitt has denied ever abusing his wife. The couple is seeking a divorce. 
On Tuesday, defense wit­nesses testified that Bobbitt liked rough sex. 
"He said he liked to make girls squirm and yell, make them bleed," Jonathan Whitaker testified. Another wit­ness, Jonathan Kaupua, said Bobbitt once told him he liked women to "scream and squirm away. That turned him on." 
In 2 1/2 hours on the stand, Mrs. Bobbitt said her husband could become violent without warning. The trial recessed late Wednesday afternoon until Friday, when the defense was to resume direct examination of Mrs. Bobbitt. 
Mrs. Bobbitt testified that her husband flew into a rage after she asked him about a tele­phone conversation in which a potential employer had berated him for missing a job interview. 
"He kicked me, he punched me, he slapped me in my face. He tortured me and he raped me," she said. 
Mrs. Bobbitt also testified about an incident on Thanksgiving 1990 when she said her husband grabbed her 

Joint chiefs chairman lauches defense ofAspin 
By SUSANNE SCHAFER Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Outgoing Defense Secretary Les Aspin is getting a bum rap from news reports about his rumpled personal appearance and supposed poor relationship with the military, the nation's top officer said Wednesday. 
"The reports that there's some ill feeling, incompatibility or what not between the secre­tary and the senior military, I tell you, there is nothing that could be further from the truth," Army Gen. John Shalikashvili, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told re­porters. "I've had an extraor­dinarily productive and warm relationship with the secre­tary." 
Aspin resigned under pres­sure last month, citing personal reasons, and is scheduled to leave office by the end of January. President Clinton has nominated retired Adm. Bobby Inman to succeed him. 

Notre Dame Students Love our TastyHot Meals inaPocket! 
lJUJ>P.OCKfi:J. _E';}1~ >f0Cl\_E'1~. 
America's #1 On-The-Go Meal 8 Delicious Varieties: 

• 
Pepperoni Pizza • Ham & Cheese •Beef & Cheddar 

• 
Barbecue • Turkey & Ham with Cheese 

• 
Chicken & Cheddar with Broccoli 



• 
Sausage Pizza • Pepperoni & Sausage Combo Pizza 



When you buy any 2packages of Hot Pockets or Lean Pockets 102a 
!:~rp:~~~!,~:t!"~~!. II
ol P''""" "'""" Any Olher "" 

consbtutes fraud COUPON NOT TRANSFERABLE LIMIT ONE COUPON PEA PURCHASE To the re1aJ1er Chel Arnenca Will retmburseyou lor the lace value of this coupon pluS Sc: rl submiTted ll COOlpllance With lhf term of lhls ofler Vattd only~ redeemecl by a.striOO!ors ol our merchal­
doea<'"yone'peohcai~"""'""'"YC""Ame<"' """""' 1121lc CheiAme<.:a CMS 5 43695 30032 6 J 
L==~~~~~~~~~--------------------~ 
car keys as she tried to leave the house with her mother to see a movie. She said Bobbitt was angry because her mother had changed the channel from a football game he was watch­ing. 
She said Bobbitt jumped in his car and tried to drive off as she approached to ask for her keys. 
"He grabbed my arm, twisted it, held on to me... He dragged me with his car and he hit me, knocked me down on the ground," she said. 
Soon after they married in June 1989, Bobbitt got angry when some men whistled at her and a woman companion dur­ing a visit to a Maryland beach, she said. 
"John came toward me, he grabbed me and pulled me by the hair. He said, 'What are you doing?' He was very upset, very mad," she said. 
Bobbitt ordered everyone to the car to go home, not even al­lowing the women to change from their bathing suits, Mrs. Bobbitt said. 
On the trip back, she said, she had to sit in the front seat next to him and he kept poking her and pulling her hair. "I was just looking out the window, out the side, but he thought I was looking at guys." 

The ObseiVer/John Bingham

Speaking of thanks 
Head football coach Lou Holtz speaks during halftime of yesterday's basketball game. Holtz was thanking the fans for their support this past season. 
Repaired Hubble proves theory 
By PAUL RECER December space shuttle mis­Associated Press sion to correct the blurred vi­sion of the $1.6 billion Hubble ARLINGTON, Va. has been successful and the 
The repaired Hubble Space orbiting telescope will soon be Telescope has vision keen able to conduct an unprece­enough to finally prove the ex­dented search for black holes. istence of black holes by mea­suring the velocity of stars be­"The search for black holes is ing sucked into the center of a top priority for the Hubble galaxies, experts say. space telescope and our efforts 
Astronomers at a national have been frustrated by the meeting of the American (blurred image)," said Gary Astronomical Society said the Bower of the Space Telescope Institute. 

Asked if the repair effort cor­rected Hubble's view suffi­ciently to now prove the exis­tence of black holes, Bower said, "Yes, it will." 
The Hubble has been under­going a checkout since its re­pair in December, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration is to formally announce on Thursday whether the fix-it job was successful. 








RROT TOP 
The College Can1pus Entertainer and Cmnedian of Lhe Year 

Returns to Campus! 
Monday, January 31, 1994 Washington Hall 8:00p1n 
Ticket Info: Students: $6 on sale January 14th General Public: $10 on sale .January 25th at the LaFortune Inl'o cksk. 



Thursday, January 13, 1994 The Observer· MEXICAN REBELLION page? 
Rebel uprising spotlights role of activist priests 
By ANITA SNOW Father Jesus Villalobos, who Associated Press runs the Don Bosco Youth Center and is parish priest to SAN CRISTOBAL DE LAS the Indians who live in the · CASAS, Mexico city's south side, said the 
Roman Catholic Bishop church has always had an ac­Samuel Ruiz became an instant tive role in Indian rights. object of both suspicion and About 170 Indians have hope when Maya Indian rebels sought temporary refuge at the launched a New Year's Day center since last week, when uprising in southern Chiapas military planes strafed their state. mountain villages in an attempt 
Wealthy landowners won­to flush out rebels. No injuries dered aloud if he or his priests or deaths were reported. had played a role in the rebel­lion that continues today. The "Anywhere there are indige­government accused Catholic nous people to defend, the lay workers of helping organize Mexican church tends to be the Zapatista National more active," Villalobos said Liberation Army rebels. Tuesday as he stood on the 
His supporters, including the playground where children impoverished Indians he has played on swings and young defended for decades, hoped he women in traditional dress sat could play a mediating role to in the shade, nursing their ba­end the bloodshed. bies and chatting in their native 
President Carlos Salinas de language. Gortari on Wednesday declared "The church is also active in a cease-fire and said soldiers indigenous communities in were ordered not to fire unless Chihuahua and Oaxaca states," they came under attack. he added. "Arid a lot of people 
Ruiz said he understands why don't like that." the Indians felt the need to take Because of their defense of up arms, but he opposes the the poor, Ruiz and his activist violence and denies any in­priests have received death volvement by himself or his threats. They've long been a priests. thorn in the side of wealthy 
landholders, the government 

"There is a tendency to and the ruling Institutional blame the ... religious people," Revolutionary Party in Chiapas, Ruiz, 69, said last week in re­one of Mexico's most impover­sponse to the government ished and violent states. charges. The clergymen say they have 
"But it is the source of the responsibility to defend parish­problem that has to be taken ioners in a state where 31 per­care ef. The church raises the cent of the 3.2 million residents consciousness of individuals. are illiterate, 20 percent of the Then, if they make a historic children do not attend school decision, that's their option." and one out of every four peo­
Activist clergymen such as ple is a non-Spanish speaking Ruiz have played important Indian. roles throughout Latin Ruiz is hated by many gov­American history as they have ernment officials for his dioce­defended the rights of the dis­se's human rights center, possessed and gained the dis­which documents abuses dain of those in power. against the poor in the state in­
It was a Roman Catholic famous for its mistreatment of priest, Father Miguel Hidalgo, the Indian peasantry. who issued the cry for Mexican independence in 1810, launch­Last fall, there were rumors ing the battle that freed Mexico that the Mexican government from Spanish rule. was pressuring the Vatican to 
During the 16th century, an­move Ruiz to another region. other Catholic priest, News reports said the move Bartolome de las Casas -'--after came after Pope John Paul II whom San Cristobal is named visited the Yucatan in August -waged a campaign against and Ruiz gave the pontiff a pas­atrocities committed by the toral document expressing con­Spanish conquistadors on the cern about the PRJ's alleged native population. control of elections. 

Ceasefire called, rebels silent 
By SUSANA HAYWARD 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

Looking pale and tired, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari announced a unilateral cease-fire in southern Mexico Wednesday after army troops gained control of most of the region occupied by Indian rebels. 
Salinas said in a televised speech to the nation that sol­diers would fire only if they are attacked by the Zapatista National Liberation Army, which staged a New Year's up­rising in Chiapas state on be­half of poor Mayan Indians. 
There was no immediate an­swer from the rebels, who had vowed to bomb facilities in this thriving metropolis of 18 mil­lion if their demands were not met. They want the government to stop bombing, withdraw its soldiers and recognize their movement. 
Salinas' announcement ap­pears to only meet the demand to stop bombing. 
Following up on the cease­fire announcement, the presi­dent dispatched the newly­named special commissioner for the crisis, Manuel Camacho Solis, to Chiapas to try to end the bloody 12-day standoff. 
The president leaves office this election year and needs desperately to depart with a peaceful resolution. The upris­ing, the first in Mexico in two decades, cast a shadow over his six-year term. It also coincided with the entrance on Jan. 1 of the North American Free Trade Agreement, Salinas' crowning achievement. 
The rebels had said the ac­cord linking the economies of the United States, Mexico and Canada, is a "death sentence" for the country's indigenous and farming communities. Some Indian crops, such as cof­fee and corn, will be hurt by duty-free U.S. imports, they said. 
They have called for Salinas' resignation, saying he took of­fice in 1988 as a result of elec­tion fraud. 
The cease-fire announcement follows a flurry of attempts to stave off the country's worst crisis in decades. 
In a Cabinet shuffie Monday, Salinas appointed Camacho ­who was foreign minister -as the Chiapas commissioner. He also ousted his interior minis­ter, who was accused of allow­ing human rights violations while he was governor of Chiapas. 

"The government is sending a clear message of conciliation," Salinas said. 
Salinas said army troops achieved their first goal to drive out the rebels, who had re­treated to mountain and jungle hideouts after soldiers rooted them out of four seized towns Tuesday. 
Officials say 107 people have died in the fighting, although church groups put the number higher. Most of the fighting died out after several days, although some violence has continued. 
About 14,000 government soldiers are stationed in the state, compared to rebels' 1,000 to 2,000 fighters. 
The military said in a press release Wednesday army troops inched toward Guadalupe Tepeyac, a small Guatemalan border village of 400 people where up to 500 rebels are be­lieved to be holed up. 
They are making slow progress because they have to repair and bulldoze the south­ern road as they go. The road is dotted with fallen trees, ditches and trenches dug by the rebels to slow the army down. 
Dozens of refugees were leav­ing along the same road, trying to escape the possible clash. 
You Are Invited to Attend 

"Winning in the ·~ ... ,..... Value-Conscious '90s" 
A Procter & Gamble Presentation on the Key to Creating and Leveraging Consumer Value 
Featuring 


Mike Milligan 

Senior Vice President 

Thursday, january 20 

5:30p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education Auditoriunt 
Reception Meet P&G managers from: immediately following. • Finance Food and beverages • Sales will be served. • Management Systems Dress is casual. • Product Development Students from • Product Supply all majors welcome. • Brand Management 

• 



Procter&Gamb/e 

'· 


..~~-----.~----------·--~-----------------------------------------------------------------------­






VIEWPOINT 
pageS 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 

News Ediror ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor.............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor .....................•... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Ediror ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independenr newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of rhe Universiry of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of rhe administra­rion ofeither instirution. The news is reported as accurarely and objecrively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represenr the opinion of the majoriry of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoinr Ediror, Accent Editor, Photo Ediror, Sporrs Editor, and Sainr Mary's Ediror. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Norre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­muniry and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-iq-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoim 631-4541 Day Ediror!Producrion 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

CHARLES RICE RIGHT OR WRONG 
'Acceptance of contraception' must be questioned 
Dr. Jack Kevorkian is a cult  acceptance of active as well as  by contraceptive premises that  to act as arbiter of when life  to death if the family or other  
figure. The Michigan patholo­ passive euthanasia on request,  ensured the eventual accep­ shall end, through suicide or  custodians conclude (subject to  
gist, who allegedly has helped  i.e., assisted suicide, and of  tance of suicide and euthana­ euthanasia as well as through  review by the courts), that he  
20 of his patients commit sui­ euthanasia for incompetent  sia:  abortion, which is prenatal  would have wanted it that way  
cide, "has an organized fan  patients at the direction of oth­ euthanasia.  or, if there is no sufficient proof  
club,"  according  to  the  ers, is a foregone conclusion  A second premise of contra­ of the patient's desires, that it  
December 6th Newsweek, "and  from the dominance of the con­ ception is that there is such a  would be in his best interest to  
some of his supporters regard him as a living saint." Dr.  traceptive ethic in our law and culture.  '  If you claim the right  thing as a life not worth living. Man, as the arbiter of life, will  die. The issue presented by Kevorkian is whether the law  
Kevorkian's unique notoriety,  One  cause  for this is the  to act as arbiter of  decide, according to utilitarian  should permit another person  
unfortunately, distracts atten­tion from the reality that his crusade is a predictable out­come of a basic moral and cul­tural disorder. Dr. Kevorkian is on trial for  financial pressure arising from an aging population a due to contraception and abortion, a shrinking base of wage earners to support them. Since ~ Wade. probably 30 million  when lite· begins, you will eventually claim the right to act as arbiter of when life shall end.'  calculations, whether that is so in particular situations. Under those ground rules, the elderly infirm, the "vegetative," the retarded and the handicapped are predictable losers.  to kill, by active means, some­one who consents to that killing. There is no durable distinc­tion between active and passive measures. The painless injec­ 
assisting  in  the  suicide  of  potential taxpayers have been  The Kevorkian matter can be  tion is an obvious alternative to  
Donald O'Keefe, a 73 year-old  killed by legalized abortion.  described in dialectical terms.  painful starvation and dehydra­ 
cancer patient who was killed by the same kind of poison gas  Uncounted millions more never came into being because of con­ The thesis is the position that would allow a person to be  tion. Moreover, a patient's deci­sion-say an AIDS patient-that  
apparatus used by other Kevorkian "patients." In stating  traception. In 1960, there were about 5 wage earners for each  killed privately anytime he requests it and without inter­ he does not want feeding with­drawn will, in some situations,  
that he was not yet prepared to  retired person in the United  Contraception rests on the  ference  by  the  state.  The  raise the question of whether  
rule on the constitutionality of  States. By the year 2020, the  · premise that man, rather than  antithesis would insist that the  he is incompetent so that the  
Michigan's new prohibition of  ratio will be about 2.2 to 1.  God, is the arbiter of whether  state is obliged to forbid all  decision ought to be made by  
assisted  suicide  or  on  Who will support all those old  and when human life shall  intentional killing of innocents.  others in his "best interest." It  
Kevorkian's attorney's motion to dismiss the charges, Wayne County Judge Richard Kaufman, on November 16th, quoted the Supreme Court's 1992 abortion decision in  people? And the incurables, retarded and handicapped? More basic than demograph­ics, however, is the contracep­tive culture. The 1930 Anglican Lambeth Conference was the  begin. In his audience of September 17, 1983, Pope John Paul II said that, men and women are not the arbiters. are not the masters of [the procre­ative capacity]. called as they  The resulting synthesis would allow euthanasia subject to reg­ulation. This position was stated by Dr. Tom Tomlinson, a medical ethicist and professor at  is clear, therefore, that regulat­ed assisted suicide, i.e., the legalized killing of persons who consent to that killing, would quickly open the door to invol­untary active euthanasia for  
Planned Parenthood v. Casey. where the Court said that  first time any Christian denomi­nation had ever declared that  are, in it and through it, to be participants in God's creative  Michigan State University, "I don't think it is unethical in  patients labeled tent.  as incompe­ 
issues "involving the most inti­mate and personal choices a person may make in a lifetime, choices central to personal dig­nity and autonomy, are central to the liberty protected by the Fourteenth Amendment."  contraception could ever be objectively right. James Douglas, editor of the London Sunday Express, responded that, "Lambeth has delivered a fatal blow to marriage, to moth­erhood, to fatherhood, to the  decision. When, therefore, through contraception, married couples remove from the exercise of their conjugal sexuality its potential procreative capacity, they claim a power which  principle for a physician to assist patients in dying, but I think the way that Dr. Kevorkian goes about it is unethical," said Dr. Tomlinson. He believes that, for assisted suicide to be ethical, the physi­ The challenge of the Kevorkian phenomenon is not merely to limit the activities of one obsessed pathologist. It is rather to reexamine our nation­al acceptance of contraception, which is a root cause of  
Kaufman then asked the prose­cutor and Kevorkian's attorney, "How can I say that a person's decision to kill themselves (sic) is any less central to a person's dignity and autonomy than the decision to abort the fetus?"  family and to morality." The contraceptive mentality, however, did not dominate until the pill came on the market in the United States in 1960. Through the contraceptive ethic man had claimed mastery over  belongs solely to God: the power to decide, in a final analysis, the coming into exis­tence of a human person. They assume the qualification not of being cooperators in God's cre­ative power, but the ultimate  cian must "take due care to ensure that assisted death is the only feasible option left to address the patient's suffering." The law now permits a legally competent adult to starve him­self to death, apparently  euthanasia as well as of abor­tion and other social evils. The trajectory is a straight line from the Lambeth Conference to the home of the late Donald O'Keefe and the "suicide" sites of other Kevorkian "patients."  
Judge Kaufman's point was well taken. There is a link between abortion and euthana­ reproduction. Now he had the technological means to make it work. With the advent of the  depositaries of the source of human life." If you claim the right to act as  whether the nutrition and fluids he rejects are artificially or nat­urally provided. This is a form  Professor Rice is on School faculty. His  the Law column  
sia. However, he did not pursue the inquiry far enough. The  pill, birth rates declined and the culture was soon permeated  arbiter of when life begins, you will eventually claim the right  of legalized suicide. An incom­petent patient may be starved  appears every other Monday.  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  

TOOAY, IN A BlOW AGAIN5T 
M05TWUCATIONAL-tXPtf?JS
THt HIGHL-Y CONTR0Vti<5/AL.

POL-ITICAL-CORFECTNE93, TH& 
fJ61<13/3, HOIAJ!3V!3R., THAT
5HIFT IN UN/Vet<S17Y POUCY 

P!<&SIO&NT OF WAWffl UNI­
HOaJ&V/3R IAJC.U.-!NlENI?filt
t(}A5 !3ROt.J6ffT Af30UT BY 

V8RSI7Y ~TH~ O&­
PR£;5/WJT!<lNG MU FAC£
PR£SIIJI3NT K/N@'f3 !1&51R8 

=t:6REGATION OFH/'3 CAMPUS... 
Gf:LIV/3 PIFFICJJL-T!&S 7RYING
TO eNO "eTHNIC eNCLAVE£/'
/ 
TO ACTUAUY !MPI.£Mt:.NT
ON HIS CAMPUS... 
THe CffANGe<3. 

OKAY, OKA~ 8/l.£AK.IT UP.' I'M O&St6R&GATING THIS TA81.£.' 
I 
YOUANO a/HATNATIONAL­
GUA~MJW? 
\ 

''Theresponsibility of tol­erance lies in those who have the wider vision." 
--George Eliot, novelist 
-

ACCENT 
Thursday, January 13, 1994 page 9 
Over break, students plunge into society's troubles 
By SARAH DORAN Accent Writer 
While many students spent their Christmas holiday relaxing in the com­forts of their own home, over two hun­dred Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students instead spent a few nights in homeless shelters, churches and children's homes in urban centers across the country looking into social ills and solutions. 
As participants in the Urban Plunge program, which is a one-credit Theology course organized by the Center for Social Concerns, students took part in a diverse array of programs whose char­acteristics varied from city to city and completed a four-page reflection paper on their experiences. 
"All the plunges are designed to and, I believe succeed in, making the inner city poor real people rather than media events," said Sue Cunningham, who oversees the programs for the C.S.C. 
For junior Pete Minahan, who partici­pated in the plunge in Miami, it did just that. 
"The plunge helped me to be able to see what people are actually doing to solve some of the problems," said Minahan. "They are fighting an uphill battle." 
Minahan and his group of three other students spent their plunge touring organizations currently at work at solv­ing some of the city's inherent problems. 
Within the 48-hour period, he toured the Metro Dade Crime Lab, a drug reha­bilitation home, a Hospice for AIDS pa­tients and the children's psychiatric ward of an area hospital. 
Taking advantage of the Miami loca­tion, he was also able to spend a great deal of time touring areas that still give witness to the vast devastation of Hurricane Andrew. 
His program provided a tour of the solutions in use from a unique perspec­tive, as he spent his evenings and nights at a Children's home. 
Living among the home's residents and getting to know those who worked for the home showed a key to solving many of the urban problems he wit­tnessed during the day, he said. 
"The home showed me that the key is to make people more aware of the prob­lems out there and to make them more sensative toward them," he said. 
For Kim Gold, who completed her plunge in Houston working mainly amongst the city's homeless, sensitivity is also a commodity needed in solving urban ills. 
"I saw a whole new part of my city, one that I had never noticed after living here for my entire life," she said. 
"It was really kind of sad and at the same time frustrating because it showed me that these people are real easy to forget about and that we need to tackle their problems not only in general, but with a new awareness and sensativity." 
Gold and her group of two other par­ticipants spent one day looking at how the homeless issue is being dealt with in the political arena and the following day handing out food from outreach vans. 
"I gained a whole new awareness of my city," she said. But not all plunge programs leave their participants with the same feeling. 
For Sophomore Cindy Egan, who par­ticipated in a Los Angeles program, the agenda needs a few improvements. 
"The program was not well organized; 
after an initial tour of the plunge site, 
there was nothing for us to do so we 
took a two-and-a-half-hour nap and 

Sesquicentennial honors the rich tradition of art at Saint Mary's 
ByMARADMS 
Accent Writer 
With the work of a reputed art department legend along­side the results of several pre­sent-day Saint Mary's profes­sors' sabbatical years, tl!e art department will artistically interpret the sesquicentennial theme of "Honoring Tradition, Pioneering Change." 
This weekend, as Saint Mary's gears up for its sesqui­centennial year, the fine arts departments will begin the commemorations with a dedi­cation to the extension of the galleries in Moreau Hall, which lies straight through the main doors leading up from the parking lot, features exhibition space. 

The exhibits will feature work from Sister Marie Rosaire, a professor of art at the College for 34 years and past chair of the Fine Arts Department. 
This, along with the exhibits professor of art Billy Ray Sandusky and Sister Cecilia Ann Kelly produced on sabbati­cal, will encompass the sesqui­centennial theme, Rickard said. 
"If you think about the theme, the tradition is long," she said. "As for 'pioneering change,' (the sabbatical exhibits) are 
-
-

John Bingham!The Observer 

"Ancestors," by Julie Tourtillotte, is one of the works which will be on display at Moreau Gallery. 

then wandered around for a while," she said. 
"I could have spent one twenty-four hour period and done the same amount of good." 
Egan and her group, whose site was at a church shelter for Latino immigrants which also included a school for gang member high school drop-outs, were also forced to search on their own for meals that they thought the shelter would provide them with. 
the standard for the develop­ment of the art department today, commented Rickard. 
Much of her work has fallen from public attention through­out the years, but has been col­lected and is ready to be dis­played as a collective unit, she said. 
Following Friday's 6:30 dedi­cation will be the faculty Art Exhibition in the Moreau Galleries at 7 p.m. Both Kelly and Sandusky bring their work to the opening exhibit. 
Kelly's exhibit, "Featuring Works on Paper" is the product of a sabbatical year in California and New Mexico. 
Her exhibit consists of a method in which she used ceramic pieces, sculpture, and fiber to create her works, noted Rickard. 
"Paper is the starting point for the statements, but I decid­ed to work a more mixed media approach," she said. 
Kelly worked at a studio in a convent in Long Beach, Ca., last year, and supplemented her work with a three-week trip to Africa. 
Sandusky is also bringing his work abroad to the opening exhibit as his "Artist's Books Made in Italy" will be on dis­play in the Cushwa-Leighton Library. 
"(His works) are a lot of chil­dren's books, pop-up books and books that are stitched together in different ways," Rickard said. "That's something no one should miss." 
The ·evening will finish with a free individual presentations by the music faculty at 8:15 p.m. in the Little Theatre. 
,...tJ;J:,:r.:-:·· 

In 1942, when the art depart:. ment had recently been· moved from a mere two rooms on Holy Cross's third floor to Queen's Court, the small Wing of small rooms on Le Mans Hall's sec­ond floor, Sister Marie Rosaire, then chair of the art depart­ment, was ready to expand the fledgling program. · ... 
Hosaire, a 1928 graduate of Saint Mary's whodied in 1967, was a professor and former • chair ofthe art department for over 34 yeal'S. 
She was characterized by her enthusiasm for the artS and for how she brought art to all departments on campus, according to Marcia Riekatd, acting chair of the Saint Mary's art department. . . 
"In the 1960's, there was a feeling of openness,'' Rickard said. "There was a communica-.. tion between. all parts of the campus. (Rosaire) tried to bring people together in the '60's, and that influence is felt even today." 
Rosaire wa~ particularly influential in the '50~s and '60's, ·With the construction· of Moreau Hall, a center for the arts that Sister Madel!lvahaci long dreamed ()f,,.acc0rdirigtpy; Rickard. .• .· ···· ····· ..•••·....··. •. ? ·':~· 
Morea\l was.a n~w building.·.· With a large au<fiWri~on t~lt.. 


But the group did enjoy certain aspects of their plunge, she said. 
"Being able to observe the school for gang members was definitely eye-open­ing, as was being able to talk with their teachers," she said. 
"The plunge was definitely worth­while, but disappointing in that it was not well organized." 
For more information about the Urban Plunge Program, contact the Center for Social Concerns at 632-5293. 
Works of Sister Rosaire to be celebrated 
.:.::: ~~~:~.~:~~~== 
att and creation part of ever i\spect of life for her students. aqcording to Father Louis Putz, C.S.C., · in his homily at Rosaire's funeraL · 
Putz eulogized Rosaire with these poetic words: "She accepted the things of this world as God put them into her hands, simple things like cloth, hard things like wire, ugly things like paint, and by mixing them, by rearranging them, she made of them things of beauty. things that had meaning far beyond their original signifi~ .canc9." 
In addition to teaching, she pioneered a workshop to make toys for underpriviledged chil­dren· and a Saint Nicholas Day fair to sell hand-printed mate­rials and art work to raise money for an art scholarship. 
Under her direction, 15 freshmen also designed the mural on the north wall o Moreau using cinders, tile, peb­bles and glass to symbolize titles of the Blessed Virgin. 
An exhi})it of Rosaire's work, which consists mostly o mosaics and banners, will help to dedicate the extended wingof the Moreau Gallery, a dedi­dttiorial exhibit that begins this weekend. Her work has not 
,been kept together in a formal .collection until now, Rickard said. 
!!Many things have not Slll'­
sqilth,·m-qsi~.~l;lgso;t:! the.west"' yived,"·•she said~ "But she was ~{1:(1 an. ~~$~ wing . . very much a part of life a.t Saint 
a:ry's/' · 
.. 


according to acting art depart­ment chair Marcia Rickard. 
The exhibits will dedicate the extension of the Moreau Gallery given by the Morrissey Fund, Rickard said. The gallery, very avant garde. We're hon­oring Sister Rosaire, but also looking toward the future." 
Rosaire's work consisted mainly of banners and mosaic work, and she and her work set 
Thursday, January 13, 1994 
25 team since the defeat of St. John's in February of 1992. "We've worked 

-Upset 
like a son of a gun this season and we 

continued from page 16 kept having that 'L' around our neck." Not this time. Notre Dame is breath­half it didn't matter if they were from 
ing again. 19 feet or 25 feet," Williams said. "I 
SEVEN FOR 1,000: Monty Williams knew they were going in and I just 
was less than thrilled with becomingwent back on defense." 

the 37th Irish player to score 1,000 It was Hoover's hot hand that kept career points.Notre Dame in front. Scoreless in the "It feels okay," he said. "But I'd first half, he hit five 3-pointers and 10 
trade that in if our seven losses could free throws in the second half. 
be victories." 

"In the second half I was getting the 
MISSOURI (73): Crudup 5·91·211, Thames 0·4 0·0 0. Hellershots in rhythm and I tried to relax 2·3 1-2 5, Booker 6-13 6-7 20. Frazier 2-3 3-6 7, Winfield 3-3 and let the game come to me," he 0-0 6, Smith 3-3 0-0 7, Sutherland 2·4 2-5 6, Grimm 0-2 o-o 0, 
O'Liney 1-3 0-0 3, Atkins 3-10 0-0 8. TOTALS: 27-57 13-22

said. 73. The game literally came tQ him in NOTRE DAME (77): M. Williams 5-10 8-13 19, Cozen 4-5 0-0 9, Joe Ross 3-5 1-2 7, Hoover 5-11 10-10 25, Boyer 1-2 0-0 1 the final minute, when he hit eight 3, J. Williams 0-4 1-2 1, White 0-0 0-0 0, Kurowski 3-6 o-2 9, '1 straight free throws, including a pair Taylor 0-1 0-0 0, Hughes 2-2 0-0 4, Jon Ross 0-0 0-0 0, Justice 0-0 0-0 0, Gotsch 0-0 0-0 0. TOTALS: 23-46 20-29
with five seconds left to secure the 77. win. 
Halftime: Notre Dame 30, Missoun 28. 3-point goals: Missouri 6-19 (Booker 2-6, Atkins 2-8, Smith 1-1, O'Liney 1-3,Crudup had four points in the final Sutherland 0-1 ), Notre Dame 11-20 (Hoover 5-9. Kurowski 3­minute to help the Tiger.s climb to 3, M. Williams 1-3, Cozen 1-2, Boyer 1-2, J. Williams 0-1). Total fouls (fouled out): Missouri 24 (Sutherland), Notrewithin two, but Hoover's free throws Dame18 (none). Rebounds: Missouri 30 (Atkins 6). Notre put the game out of reach. Dame 33 (M. Williams 8). Assists: Missouri 15 (Winfield 3, Smith 3), Notre Dame 18 (Hoover 5). Turnovers: Missouri 24 The Observer/John Bingham "We needed that one," MacLeod said (Frazier 7), Notre Dame 23 (J. Williams 4). Attendance: 
Senior Monty Williams scored 19 points and led the Irish with eight rebounds last night. of Notre Dame's first win over a top 9,571. 
No. 1 North Carolina shocked by Georgia Tech 
Associated Press great start in his first start. "It sort of snowballed," Ken­final 3:05, and eight of Purdue's 16 assists: "I think everybody McCarty, a sophomore for­tucky guard Travis Ford said of final 10 points came at the free expected a close game, not like 
Travis Best scored 10 of his ward, hit five of his first six the fast start. "Teams get hesi­throw line. it turned out. Things just went 27 points in the final 2:45, shots Wednesday night as No. 8 tant once you turn them over a Purdue broke a 5-5 tie on our way. Every shot we put up sparking 17th-ranked Georgia Kentucky jumped out to a big couple of times. Tonight we 'Brandon Brantley's 7 -foot jump went in. We were always in Tech to an 89-69 upset of top­early lead and coasted to a 98-were running on all cylinders." shot and went on to outscore defensive position." ranked North Carolina on 64 victory over Mississippi. Kentucky went to its bench Michigan State 10-2 in the next Like Haskins and other Wednesday night. McCarty, who replaced Rod after that and Mississippi still six minutes. members of the Black Coaches 
The Yellow Jackets, who Rhodes in the lineup, finished had difficulty bringing the ball The Spartans battled back to Association, Wisconsin coach never trailed, snapped Caroli­with 24 points and three re­upcourt against fullcourt pres-take two brief leads -21-20 on Stu Jackson is thinking about na's 10-game winning streak as bounds as the Wildcats (12-2, sure. Snow's driving layup with 7:05 sitting out a game to protest an the Tar Heels fell to 12-2 in 2-1 Southeastern Conference) No. 9 Purdue 89, to play and 24-23 on Kris NCAA rule limiting basketball their first game since climbing handed Mississippi (5-6, 0-3) its Weshinskey 3-pointer at the . scholarships.
Michigan State 77 
to the top of the Associated fifth straight defeat. 6:17 mark. "Well, I think that tonight's
Glenn Robinson's jumper
Press poll on Monday. "I came out real confident," Glenn Robinson, the nation's game, from a personal stand­
broke No. 9 Purdue's 62-62 tie 
--Tech (10-3) also got 22 said McCarty, who hit eight of No. 1 scorer, led Purdue with point, probably should have
with Michigan State Wednesday 
points from James Forrest, 10 shots. "Right now I'm just 25 points, and Matt Waddell been my game to boycott," said 
night to take the lead for good
eight of those in the last 3:10 going to keep playing well. I felt had 20 points and Cuonzo Mar­Jackson, whose team fell to 11­
and finish out 89-77 in Big Ten
when the Jackets took control real good shooting the ball." tin added 15. 1 overall and 2-1 in the Big
action.

after Eric Montross' jump hook Rhodes, who lost his starting Shawn Respert, the Big Ten. "I certainly didn't help us. 
Robinson tossed in a free
closed the deficit to 68-64 with role because of poor rebound­Ten's third leading scorer, led We lost this game as a team ­
throw with just more than
3:55 to play. ing in recent games, came off the Spartans with 21 points af­starters, bench, coaching staff." 
seven minutes to play, and the
Montross led the Tar Heels the bench to grab a team-high ter getting only five in the first And Minnesota (11-3 overall, 
Boilermakers (41-0, 2-0) went
(2-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) eight rebounds and score 18 half. Weshinskey and Anthony 2-0) won as a team with by far 
on to outscore Michigan State
with 20 points. Tech, snapping points. Miller each finished with 16 its best performance of the sea­
15-2 as the Spartans (10-5, 1-2) 
a two-game losing streak, "I look at it as a challenge," points and Snow had 11. son. 
struggled to regain their lead. 
climbed to 1-2 in the ACC. Rhodes said of not starting, No. _18 Minnesota 90, ''I'm big on team play,"
After trailing 43-35 at the
It was the second straight "and I think I fulfilled it." Haskins said. "We want bal­
half, Michigan State took a 60-No. 12 Wisconsin 53 
game in which the Jackets beat McCarty opened the game anced scoring. That's my phi­
58 lead with 8:48 to play on Minnesota coach Clem Hask­
Carolina when it was ranked with a turnover but came back losophy."
Eric Snow's layup. Purdue an­ins said it simply was his team's 
No. 1, the other time coming in with a midcourt steal and dunk Voshon Lenard scored 23 
swered with a 2-pointer and night. It certainly wasn't
last season's ACC tournament at19:41. points, Randy Carter and David 
Quinton Brooks followed up Wisconsin's.
fmal, 77-75. Tech has won only Mississippi's Jarrell Evans Grim had 13 each and McDon­
with an 8-foot shot to lead "No matter who we would
10 of 49 meetings against the countered with a rebound bas­ald ;tdded 12 as the Gophers
again 62-60. have played tonight, we would
Tar Heels. ket 10 seconds later. beat a higher-ranked team in 
Robinson, the nation's lead­have won," Haskins said
Tech built a 26-13 lead in From that point on, it was all their Big Ten home opener for 
ing college scorer, scored the Wednesday after his 18th­
the first 10 minutes before Kentucky. the sixth straight season. 
next five points to make it 65-ranked Gophers handed No. 12
Montross sparked an 18-6 run Jared Prickett's three-point Michael Finley scored 15 
62. Matt Waddell, who shot 7 of Wisconsin its first loss of the
with six points as North play after a Mississippi points for the Badgers, who 
10 from the field, added eight, season, 90-53. "It just hap­
Carolina cut the lead to 32-31. turnover gave Kentucky a 13-2 shot 41 percent from the field,
including two 3-pointers. pened to be the Badgers." 
No. 8 Kentucky 98, lead. McCarty then hit three 3-42 percent from the free-throw 
The Spartans never could Said Minnesota's Arriel Mc­
pointers and a layup as the lead line and had a season-high 24
Mississippi 64 get closer than 10 points in the Donald, who had a team-record
grew to 26-8 with 14:13 to go. turnovers. 
Walter McCarty got off to a 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre . 
Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2
Classifieds 

cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Station, Housekeeping and  PROMOTE our SPRING BREAK  SUMMER OR FALL "94".LARGE 6  Spring Break Bahamas Party  
NOTICES  Maintenance Personnel. Write to: St. Mary Lodge and Resort. PO Box  packages with our posters and fly­ers, or SIGNUP NOW for spring­ BORM HOME 2 BATHS. 1, 2, & 3 BORM HOMES. ALL HOMES  r  PERSONAL  Cruisel 6 Days $2791 Trip Includes Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free  
1808, Sun Valley. 10 83353 for an  break rooms. Daytona, Panama,  WALK TO CAMPUS.272-6306  Parties! Hurry! This will sell out!  
USED TEXTBOOKS  application.  Padre, Cancun. etc. $129 up. Call  Student Activities is hiring office  1-800-678-6386  
Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard  CMI 1-800-423-5264  assistants-to apply, stop by 315  
'233-2342/10-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun  CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  LaFortune by Monday, Jan. 17.  Spring Break! Cancun & Jamaica!  
to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or  $700/wk. canneries; $4500/mo.  SECURITY SYSTEM  Fly out of Chicago and spend 8  
Land-Tour companies. World travel.  deckhands. Alaska summer fish­ ALL APPLIANCES  HEY KRUSTY, GOOD TO SEE  days on the beach! We have the  
ILOST & FOUND I  Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext.  eries now hiring. Employment Alaska 1-206-323-2672  1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 232 2595  YOUAGAINI  best trips & prices! Includes air & hotel & parties from $399! 1-800­678-6386  
C5584  Are you a Wheel Watcher? Cash  HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY,  
FOUND:  CAMP THUNDERBIRD  paid for watching Wheel of Fortune. $10 per hour. NO & SMC students  FOR SALE  Ann, Lizard, and Angel! I  Spring Break! Panama City! 8 days oceanview room with kitchen $119!  
Set of keys with red State Farm  Camp Counselors Needed  only, call (312)509-6401, leave  I would have sent cards, but I  Walk to best barsl Includes free dis­ 
symbol. Found next to Univ.  Resident Summer Camp  msg.  IMMACULATE 3 1:10AM CAPECOO  stepped on my glasses and  count card -save $50 on cover  
Village. Ph.# 631-5748  for Developmentally Disabled  4 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.  and couldn't read the  charges! 1-800-678-6386  
Children & Adults.  Help! I need a ride to Cleveland,  BULLA R0.$64,500.272-6306  calendar.  
WANTED  June 18-Aug 26  Ohio (or all the way to Erie, Pa. if you are going that far) the weekend  Hope they were damn good.  Florida's New Spring Break hotspots! Cocoa Beach & Key  
of Jan. 28. Very friendly, $$ for  '80 FORO, runs good $575; bike  West! More upscale than Panama  
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MON­ Orlando, FL area  gas, tolls, etc. Call Brian x3043  $30; large coach $30. 271-8262  Love ya.  City/Oaytonal Great beaches &  
T ANA Have the summer of your life  1-407-889-8088  nightlife! 8 days in 27 acre Cocoa  
while providing the best of Western hospitality to Glacier Park visitors!  SUMMER CAMP JOBS in the  '---FO_R_RE_N_T_  __.II  TICKETS  CLUBS THAT RESERVED TABLES FOR FOOTBALL CON­ Beachlront Resort $159! Key West $249! 1-800-678-6386  
1994 Summer applications are now  Northeast. For a free list send a  CESSION STANDS MUST PICK  
being accepted for the following  stamped ($.52) self-addressed  NEAR CAMPUS. 1 BORM $225.  Need to get home in May? One way  UP DEPOSITS BY FRIDAY, JAN.  
positions: Bar, Restaurant, Kitchen staffs, Desk Clerks, Salespeople,  envelope to Camps, 1785 Redcoat, Maryland Hgts, MO 63043  MO. & ROOMS AT $190. MO. AVAIL. NOW. 272-6306  •  airline ticket -SB to Atlanta. You pick the date. $150 631 -4053  141N THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE.  HI RIANAKEY from Cheryl and Kathiellll  
Store Clerks, Office, Service  



Thursday, January 13, 1994 The Observer • PRO FOOTBALL 
Montana, Chiefs set for Oilers -­
Smith says Bills have a "score to settle" with Raiders 
By CRAIG HORST 
Associated Pcess 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

Nobody knows better than Joe Montana that Houston will blitz, blitz and blitz some more. 
The Chiefs quarterback says the answer to that is patience, patience and more patience. 
Throwing the ball away against the onrushing Oilers is better than an interception. 
"The key is not to give them the football," Montana said Wednesday as the Chiefs con­tinued preparing for a second­round playoff game Sunday in the Astrodome. "You have to be patient. 
"I think what happens in a game against a team like this. you throw a lot of incomplete passes. and then you'll hit a big play like 40 yards," said Mon­tana, who is mostly healthy, al­though he said his ribs still hurt a little from the hit he took from Pittsburgh last week that forced him out for a series. 
"You have to be patient with it and the key is not to give them the ball. An incomplete pass can be seen as a plus for them, but it can also be a plus for us because we're not giving them the ball. Maybe the next 
By JOHN F. BONFATTI Steve Wisniewski after the Associated Press Buffalo Bills lost to the Raiders 25-24 on Dec. 5. ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. The bad feeling should make 
Hit Bruce Smith as hard as for an interesting game-within­you want-just make sure the-game Saturday when the they're cl~an hits. . Raiders play the Bills in Buffalo 
The Pro Bowl defensive end · · in the AFC playoffs. doesn't like cheap shots, and Smith tried to downplay his that's how he described some of return engagement with Wis­the blocks he absorbed from niewski. Los Angeles Raiders guard "We have a score to settle 
• 20 PAID STUDENT CALLER POSffiONS AVAilABLE • 
• meet new people
• 
$5.50 per hour 

• 
flexible evening hours • training 

• real life experience 

• 
no experience necessary 




Please join us for an informal 
OPEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, January 13th 4:00 -6:00 p.m. at the Annual Fund Phone Center (Southeast corner of Badin Hall) 

P~~ P~e~ 
If you have any questions, please call: Kathy Webb (631-7938) or Kent Goffinet (631-7241) 

,.o\1o·s su,lt,~
.tt 
234-4015 0\t 

rrfie ~iggest o/a{ue 'J&rtli oftlie ~order os"'-~'rc 
~""~~~~ 50¢ OFF ,t~p~ourJA.t
~~ 'Y.fQJV 'J 
\.) \1--Any Submarine Sandwich 's;(tt Bandito Burrito or Pancho's Nachos r 


time you'll hit one, and that's what you kind of have to be pa­tient with." 
Montana said the two ways to attack the aggressive Hous­ton defense is to flood the sec­ondary with lots of receivers or to run two-receiver routes and keep plenty of pass blockers at home. 
"There's all kinds of philoso­phies, and we'll mix them up throughout the game," he said. "Sometimes we'll get everybody out and try to get the ball to someone. Sometimes we'll block everybody and try to work on the outside." 
As important as physical ex­ecution is, each team will be trying to outguess the other. 
"We have to play as much of a (mental) game with them as they play with us." Montana said. 
Houston coach Jack Pardee disputed the notion his defense threw caution to the wind on every play but said the goal was constant pressure that eventu­ally wears down opponents and forces them into mistakes. 
"It's disguised pressure," 
Pardee said. "The offense can't 
get a comfort level and just 
hold the ball because it can 
come at any time from any place. It's been a proven scheme. It took longer to adjust to it than I anticipated." 

Houston and Kansas City met in the second game of the season with the Oilers trying to perfect the new defense and the Chiefs trying to work in the new offense. 
It was disastrous for the Chiefs, who committed five turnovers in the 30-0 loss. 
That was Houston's only win in the first five games, and Pardee benched his own quar­terback for an Oct. 17 game at New England. 
But Cody Carlson was in­jured in the first quarter, and Warren Moon was back in. The Oilers ran out the season with an 11-game winning streak, finishing with a team record 12 victories. 
"There's been a lot of water under the bridge since (the Kansas City game)." Pardee said. 
"That was a very trying time," he said. "We had a bad record, and we were playing bad. He (Moon) was getting hit too much. I just thought we needed to settle him down and get his confidence back." 
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

Montana certainly will be a 
Former Irish great Joe Montana leads the Chiefs into Houston to take 
target of the Houston defense. 
on the Oilers, with a berth in the AFC Championship on the line. 
with the Raiders," Smith said. "This isn't a battle between myself and Wisniewski. This is a battle between the Bills and Raiders." 
Wisniewski wasn't the only Raider lineman Smith had problems with in the earlier meeting. On Los Angeles' sec­
. ond offensive series, Raider offensive tackle Gerald Perry punched Smith in the face after a play. 
Three plays later, Wis­niewski grabbed Smith's face­mask when Smith was on the ground after a play was whis­tled dead. At several points in the game, Smith claims Wis­niewski took shots at his knees while Smith was engaged with another blocker. 
After the game, Smith was incensed about the low blocks. 
"When you have to resort to cutting someone (at the knees) or telling them, 'I'm going to take your knees out,' that just shows you the lack of athletic ability that person has," he said. "I don't want to single anybody out, but Wisniewski knows who I'm talking about." 
Going into Saturday's re­match, Smith reiterated his comments about Wisniewski, who was voted to his fourth Pro Bowl this year. 
For 
Graduate Students 

-

Communities ND 
An opporhmity for graduate students to form small Christian Communities to share and explore faith and professional. life. 
JP'ITZZA S'UlP'l?'SlR AND INA 'UG'UIW.A11 GATHlElRlNG SUNDAY, JANUARY 23 6:00-8:00p.m. Fischer Graduate Community Center 
To make a-pplication: Return the form you received in the mail or call 
Sharon Harwell at 631-8607 by [anuary 21.
•
~ 
"You tend to find players that lack athletic ability that want to go out and cheap-shot like that," he said. "One guy holds you up and and the other comes down on your knees. Eventually, it's going to damage your knee or the wear and tear is going to force somebody to retire. It's a very unfortunate situation." 
"That's what starts incidents on the field, plays like that," Smith said. "I love a hard, clean game. Knock the hell out of me, but do it clean. That's the way I'm going to do it to you." 
Smith said that while trash­talking and cheap-shotting may be part of some players' games, ''I'm not going to be a cheap­shot or one who says something after the play stops. I don't want to be known as a player like that." 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 13, 1994 
--76ers to stay in Philly FBI investigates Kerrigan attack 
By SALLY CARPENTER HALE troit. as a "straight shooter, the Associated Press Law enforcement sources in straightest of the straight." He
as move is blocked 
By THOMAS MARTELLO 
Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. 

Gov.-elect Christie Whitman on VVednesday blocked a pro­posal to build an arena in Cam­den for the Philadelphia 76ers, saying the deal would be too risky for New Jersey taxpayers. 
"My responsibility is to the taxpayers of New Jersey," VVhitman said at a news con­ference in her transition office. ''I'd love to have the 76ers in New Jersey. That would be ter­rific. But we can't do it." 
VVhitman's rejection was sharply criticized by Gov. Jim Florio, the outgoing Democrat who last month said a deal to move the team across the Delaware River was very close. 
In addition, Vincent Sarubbi, the Camden County freeholder director, and 76ers owner Harold Katz said they would meet within the next few days to see if another joint venture could be struck to build the arena. 
"This is a once in a lifetime opportunity for the City of Camden and the County of Camden," Sarubbi said. "VVe intend to make a good faith ef­fort to fully investigate doing this some other way, not involv­ing the state, to make it a real­ity." 
However, Sarubbi could of­fer few specifics VVednesday. 
Katz said he had several op­tions for the team, but would not reveal them. He said he was "extremely disappointed" in Whitman's decision. 
"Unfortunately for the 76ers, we got caught between two governors," Katz said in Philadelphia. "I hope politics wasn't the issue, but I feel it may have been." 
Katz had asked Whitman to make a decision by Feb. 1 so he could have enough time to renegotiate a deal to remain in the Spectrum. 
VVhitman stressed she was rejecting this specific proposal and was not ruling out further efforts to bring the team to New Jersey. But her decision kills a deal Florio had attempted to craft in his waning days in of­fice. 
"I am not satisfied that this proposal overcomes my con­cerns," VVhitman said. "Perhaps with more complete information and less financial
-uncertainty, a similar project may go forward in the future. I believe this one should not." VVhitman said an indepen-
SPORTS BRIEFS 

dent study of the deal negoti­ated in December among the state Sports and Exposition Authority, members of Florio's administration and Katz showed the risk to taxpayers "would be considerable if the arena fell short in its projected revenues." VVhitman would not release the Arthur Andersen & Co. study. 
She said building the water­front arena would cost at least $5 million more than the pro­jected $85 million. In addition, buying the land and making improvements would cost at least $40 million, she said. VVhitman said the deal called for the sports authority to issue at least $100 million in state­backed bonds, and for Camden County to issue at least $37 million in bonds. 
"The project would create two layers of significant debt ... with taxpayers bearing the ul­timate financial risk at both levels," said VVhitman, who takes office Tuesday. 
did not know which church he was affiliated with, or who played the tape for him. 
Crowe said Saunders' ac­quaintance became worried af­ter receiving threats from the Arizona man because the man who allegedly hired the "hit" had failed to pay the $100,000 promised. 
Harding's husband, Gillooly, acknowledged he was being in­vestigated, but told The Orego­nian he was not involved in the Kerrigan attack. 
"I wouldn't do that," Gillooly said. "I have more faith in my wife than to bump off her com­petition." H a r d i n g ' s bodyguard. Eckardt, called the allegations "absurd." 
"I would never get involved in anything like that," Eckardt told The Oregonian. "That would be jeopardizing my fu­ture, my career. I mean, that's not something I could do or al­low." 
Harding has denied any link to the attack, saying she felt cheated of the chance to com­pete with Kerrigan. 


PORTLAND, Ore. 
The FBI is investigating alle­gations that the husband of fig­ure skater Tonya Harding and her bodyguard arranged last week's attack on rival skater Nancy Kerrigan, a private in­vestigator said today. 
Gary Crowe said a Portland minister came to him for advice after he heard a tape recording of Harding's husband and bodyguard plotting with a third man, described as a "hit man" from Ar-izona, to injure Kerri­gan. 
Bart-Gori, Oregon spokesman for the FBI, con­firmed that the Oregon agents are investigating the Kerrigan attack, but he declined to elaborate. 
The Oregonian newspaper first reported today that federal authorities were investigating the possible role of Harding's husband, Jeff Gillooly, and her bodyguard, Shawn Eric Eck­hardt, in the attack during practice at the U.S. Figure Skating Championships in De-VVashington told The Associated Press today that the FBI would announce arrests later in the day. Dewey Blanton, a spokesman for Kerrigan, said today that the skater's family "was informed by the FBI of an impending development." 
Kerrigan was struck on the leg after a practice session Thursday, suffering severe bruises that forced her to with­draw from the U.S. Olympic tri­als in Detroit. 
The International Committee of the U.S. Figure Skating As­sociation named Kerrigan to the team along with Harding, who won the U.S. championship at the trials. Crowe said Eugene C. Saunders told him the tape recording made it clear that Kerrigan was the tar­get and that Harding knew nothing about the plot. 
Saunders told him a man's voice on the tape asked, "VVhy don't we just kill her?" 
The response: "VVe don't need to kill her. Let's just hit her in the knee." 
Crowe described Saunders 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
9 Month -10 Month -12 Month Leases FURNISHED APARTMENTS, ALL UTILITIES COVERED, CENTRAL AIR 
Wide open spaces, well appointed apartments. Indoor Pool &Jacuzzi. Sports activity area. Weight machine, 24 Hour Laundry. 
STUDENT ACCOMMODATION AND CARE AT AFFORDABLE PRICES. WE TAKE SECURITY AND SAFETY SERIOUSLY. 
Visit Our Office and Meet Our Staff Call Dorene NOW 
272--1441 
·~ .....~-......... t. y --~--------·-----------............. ---.. -... --­
I Thu"<<ay, Janu•cy 13, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
NCAA braces for impending boycott from coaches 
By CHUCK SCHOFFNER Washington State coach Kelvin wouldn't discuss it," Washing­the end of convention week for Associated Press Sampson, a member of the ton said Wednesday before vacation, instead hurried home BCA. "A brush fire here or boarding a plane at the Des to deal with the BCA's threat. DES MOINES, Iowa there isn't going to do anything. Moines airport. Many questions remain 
Plans for a college basketball We've got to have solidarity on What is known is that the unanswered. Would the players boycott gath­
this." BCA and NCAA are no longer join the coaches in a walkout? ered strength Arkansas coach Nolan talking. NCAA officials met Are coaches putting their jobs Wednesday, Richardson said he thinks a twice with BCA officials in the in jeopardy? Would boycotting with more boycott is inevitable. last hours of the NCAA conven­teams have to forfeit games? coaches sup­"It's very strong," he said. tion, which ended Tuesday "I don't know what the ram­porting the A vote at the NCAA conven­night in San Antonio, and had ifications are," said Iowa State unprecedent­tion against restoring a 14th planned to meet again Thurs­coach Johnny Orr, former pres­ed protest and scholarship in Division I men's day. The BCA called off that ident of the National Asso­talks with the basketball triggered the boycott meeting. ciation of Basketball Caoches. 
Nolan

NCAA broken plan. "We were notified -this "Could they fire the coaches or off. Richardson Asked if the effort to consoli­morning that there was no need take scholarships away from 
Rudy Washington, director of date support for a boycott was to continue a dialogue," said the players? I real)y don't the Black Coaches Association going as well as he expected, Cedric Dempsey, the NCAA's know. I don't know what's go­and the basketball coach at Washington replied, "Better." executive director. "Our com­ing to happen. Drake, would not say when the The coaches could act as munication has stopped. They walkout would take place, but early as Saturday, which would decided that was not neces­"But no matter what, there's acknowledges it is likely to hap­coincide with the birthday of sary." going to be some hard feelings, pen. He said the boycott would slain civil rights leader Martin Dempsey said he had no idea probably some jobs lost. include players and could con­Luther King Jr. Stopping games what the BCA planned or when There's going to be some bitter­ceivably last the rest of the sea­on a weekend also would knock it would act. But the possibility ness no matter what." son. a number featured matchups of a boycott has college admin­Despite the risks, some play­
Some coaches said they off television, depriving the istrators scurrying to figure ers likely would join a boycott. hoped to avoid such action but NCAA of revenue from those what they would do if it actually New Mexico guard Greg Brown, would participate in a show of telecasts. happened. the team's leading scorer, said unity. Others said they will con­Washington discussed the All 33 Division I conference he supports the BCA and would tinue to get their teams ready BCA's plans with the group's commissioners scheduled a go along with its plans. to play. executive legislative committee conference call for 3 p.m. EST "We all know what's going 
"There comes a point where Tuesday night. Thursday to discuss strategy. on. I think a lot of people would you have to take a stand," said "I promised the other guys I NCAA delegates, who often use follow what John Thompson or 

LATE NIGHT OLYMPIC 

SIGN-UPS JANUARY 13 OR 14 
SIGN-UP IN THE DINING HALLS ON JANUARY 13 OR 14. BY SIGNING-UP YOU AGREE NOT TO EAT DINNER ON WEDNESDAY, ANUARY 19. FOR EACH MEAL 
MISSED THE NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES WILL MAKE A DONATION TO SPECIAL OLYMPICS. 


John Chaney would do," Brown said, referring to two BCA lead­ers and two of the nation's most prominent coaches. 
Drake assistant coach Pat Rafferty said he was certain his school's players would honor a boycott. 
"If coach Washington isn't coaching, then this basketball team won't play," Rafferty said. 
The NCAA scholarship vote upset the black coaches, who contend minority athletes are most hurt by cutbacks. A re­duction of one scholarship means 300 fewer opportunities at a college education, they say, adding about two-thirds of that total likely would be black. 
"We're looking for opportu­nities for our kids," Arkansas coach Nolan Richardson said. "Is that so terrible? Don't close no doors on me; open the door. You don't have to give me noth­ing. Just give me an oppor­tunity." 
Tulsa coach Tubby Smith said that while he's disap­pointed that the additional scholarship was rejected, he's not sure a boycott is the an­swer. 
German soccer player stabbed 
Associated Press 
STUTTGART, Germany 

A woman jumped up and stabbed a member of the Ham­burg SV soccer team Wednes­day during an indoor tourna­ment in Stuttgart, police said. 
Oliver Moeller, an amateur under contract with first divi­sion team Hamburg, was stabbed as he sat in the play­ers' section of the stands in Stuttgart's Hans-Martin Schleyer Hall watching a game. 
A woman wielding a 20-cen­timeter kitchen knife was over­powered by another spectator and arrested. 
Klaus Arendt, a police su­pervisor on duty said the 28­year-old woman was still being questioned. He said no other details were immediately avail­able. 
Moeller, 25, was rushed to a hospital for treatment. His in­juries were reported as not life­threatening, private television channel VOX said. 
The latest incident was comes just six days after U.S. skating star Nancy Kerrigan was attacked in Detroit. Kerri­gan, 24, was struck on the leg after a practice session last Thursday, suffering bruises that forced her to withdraw from the U.S. national champi­onships. 
The attack in Stuttgart was the second stabbing of a sports figure in Germany in less than a year. Monica Se1es, ranked N0.1 at the time, was stabbed in the back as she sat during a pause in a match in Hamburg on April30. 
Her attacker, Guenther Parche, said he wanted to keep Seles from beating German player Steffi Graf, so Graf could 
-

regain the No. 1 position. 
A Hamburg court gave Parche a two-year suspended sentence for causing grievous bodily harm. 
-
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 13, 1994 
Holtz makes prediction on NCAA playoff system 
Associated Press that could be used to fund mi­
nority scholarships and gender 
GREENSBORO equity throughout college ath­

A college football playoff is letics. inevitable, said Notre Dame "The college presidents' coach Lou Holtz, whose team main concern about a playoff is finished No. 2 in the polls this that it would take players away year. from classes. But a four-team 
"We'll see a two-or four­playoff would only take two team playoff in my coaching weeks, and most schools don't lifetime, and I don't plan on even hold classes for at least a coaching much longer," he week after New Year's Day." said. "I think it definitely will Then he got to the heart of happen in the next two years." the mattl'lr that he began 
Holtz spoke Tuesday at the protesting 10 days ago. Greensboro Area Chamber of ''I'm convinced that sports­Commerce's annual meeting. writers, coaches and even con­
Notre Dame defeated Florida ference commissioners vote in State 31-24 in the next-to-last a self-serving manner," said regular-season game, and both the Notre Dame coach. "Leave emerged with bowl victories. us out of it for a minute. North Florida State finished 12-1; Carolina lost to Alabama 24-10 Notre Dame 11-1. in the Gator Bowl and dropped 
Florida State fmished No. 1 in from No. 11 to No. 21 in the the polls. coaches' poll. That was 
"College football is the only uncalled for. sport in America in which a "Do you suppose maybe some champion isn't determined on coaches were anxious to stem the field," Holtz said. "A playoff the recruiting momentum after the bowl games would North Carolina has been gain­produce tremendous revenue ing? It sure looks that way." 

Carlton an overwhelming choice for baseball Hall 
By BEN WALKER cisco Giants and members -of votes shy in 1985 and Jim ninth on baseball's win list -individual awards, I'm touched Associated Press Congress, fell seven votes short Bunning was seven votes short second among left-banders to to be elected to the Hall of and fmished with 73.6 percent. in 1988. In three years, Cepeda Warren Spahn's 363 victories Fame," Carlton said in a state­NEW YORK It takes 75 percent to be can become a candidate for se­-and second in strikeouts with ment released by the Phillies. 
Steve Carlton, the only pitch­elected, which meant 342 votes lection to the Hall by the Veter­4,136. He shares the NL record "To be included among the er to win four Cy Young in balloting by the Baseball ans Committee in three years; of 19 strikeouts in a game. game's greatest players is truly Awards, was overwhelmingly Writers Association of America. Bunning and Fox are under Carlton will be inducted into a great honor." elected to the Hall of Fame in Among others who missed this consideration, too. the shrine in Cooperstown, his first year of eligibility while time were 300-game winners This is the second straight N.Y., on July 31. He is the 25th As well as his hard-breaking Orlando Cepeda just missed in Phil Niekro (273 votes) and Don year that only one player was person to be selected in his first slider, Carlton was known for his final chance Wednesday.· Sutton (259), along with Tony . selected. Last year, Reggie year of eligibility since the first years for not talking to the 
Carlton received 436 of 455 Perez (263). Cepeda and Perez Jackson was the lone choice. election in 1936, and is sched­media. But Carlton, now living votes for 95.8 percent, the fifth­each hit 379 home runs. Carlton was 329-244 with a uled to be the 217th member of on a 400-acre ranch in Du­highest in history. But Cepeda, Cepeda is the third player in 3.22 ERA in a career from the Hall. rango, Colo., planned to speak the subject of a big letter-writ­the last decade to just miss 1965-88, most of H with the "While I've never been one at a news conference Thursday ing campaign by the San Fran-election. Nellie Fox fell two Philadelphia Phillies. He is to place a great emphasis on in New York. 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" 
Open Monday-Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 

Special Rush Week Hours Thursday 8 a.m. 7p.m. Friday =--9-=a=--=--=.m~.--'-7---lp""---".~m~. 

3m Sale! 
Scotch Removable Mounting Squares .79 ea. 



-------------. 
Thursday, January 13, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER  JAY HOSLER  
ANTED: niversity the polls.  Small, northcentral Indiana seeks a higher ranking in Call 219-CRY-BABY  LOST: The proper perspective intellectual life on a college campus. Call Monk at 1-900 THE DOME.  on  WANTED: cartoonist seeks ideas for mediocre college strip. Sense of humor not requirement. Call Jay at 1-800-SPE-LUNK.  





BILL WAITERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES Wf.St-l'l 1\li>.T !>... GREAT S\\01?. 
'fll-1t>.T COt·n1~0L! Wl{f>...T FORM! 
Dll) '(OV ~one£ 1\-\t: TOP Sf\1'-1? D\ll '(o\l ~0"\"IC.E I-lOW I Pf>...C.KtD 1\--IE ~OW '9;) 111t>-"l" .. 
~~ 

~-~:_

~) 0 
, • I 
-·-~~•.
-
C 199C WattersolliD1st. by Un1versal Press SyndiCate 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLEIT 
T WoNt>ER \F h-::. 
g1 Gv'1s! ~ow /,l~>,s
f\LwA'-'\S 'SrnEL-LE'D !til'S ~olll!. VAU\...
"B~>-1> 1\N'D WE NEvER
1 
NO\ 1<-E'D 
lT... I 
Gu:z... 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Undiminished GO Ambition 35 Start of M-G-M's 61 At the summit of 
1 Obsolete motto 62 More than 6 Serpent song 36 Pop singer manly10 Up to snuff Abdul 63 Move like the 
14 Type type_ ...., 38 Seven-time N.L. 
Blob­15 Put a stake on homer champ 
64A littlethe table 39 Marquis de 65 Cultural16Mr. Sade's favorite characteristicsKadiddlehopper entree? 

66 Ran in the 17 Campaign-42 Start of the ana laundryposter word 43 Begin, as winds 67 Had no doubt18 Night light 44 Morn's opposite 68 Ocean areas

19 Litter littlest 45 Wanted-poster 20 Marquis de word Sade's favorite 47 Snitch 
DOWN 

side dish? 48 Shelley output 1 Regard 
23 Before, to bards 49 Lab bottle 2-breve (2/2
24 Grandiose 51 Former Mideast time)poetry monogram 3 Dad's Day gifts 25Wound 53 Marquis de 4 Whistler was reminder Sade's favorite one
28 Lingerie buy vegetable? 5 Dissuade & Fastening device
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 '85 film,"­the Night" a Washington, 

271n­40 Made a basket­53 Air-conditioned 
e.g. (agitated) ball boo-boo 54 Bulldoze
9 Ranchero's 

29 Has misgivings 41 Ask for a loan 55 Igloo shape 
wrap ­

about 46 Upholstery 56 Gush forth 10 Verse with a 30 Birch kin fabric 57 Need a back rub 
message? 32 Readied the 48 Baroque 58 Karate motion 
11 In a funk 12 Brownie's eye? press 50 Admit 59 Ponderosa 

13 CPR specialists 33 Christopher of 52 Aligned the name cross hairs 60Lump
21 Interdict the screen 22 Hanoi's region 
34 Crossword birds

25 Fencing Get answers to any three clues 
weapon 36 "Will it play in 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
-?" 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
prey 37 Official records 



THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

Expatriates, they migrated in the 1920s to Paris' Left Bank, gathering in their favorite haunts and discussing the meaning of cream pies and big shoes. They were, in fact, the original Boclownians. 
OF INTEREST 


• 

l 
1 
I 
l 
DINING HALL 



welcome back from 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, January 13, 1994 
Notre Dame shoots down No. 25 Missouri 

Irish tennis impresses in two Christmas tourneys 


By PHIL LANGER 
Sporrs Writer 
Winter break 
proved to be chal­lenging for several members of the eighteenth-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team. 
Senior Todd 

Wilson survived the Andy Zurcher 
first three rounds of 
the prestigious Milwaukee tourna­
ment to reach the round of 16. 

-"It was Todd's most impressive performance of his collegiate career at Notre Dame," stated Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss. "He has steadily improved over the last four years." Both junior Horst Dziura and sophomore John Jay O'Brien also reached the second round of the tour­nament. In the National Collegiate Tennis Classic in Palm Desert, Ca., which invites only the top four players from the top eight finishers in last year's NCAA Tournament, two freshman 
shined. 
Ryan Simme, ranked 32nd, reached the quarterfinals by beating Anders Lingred of Alabama and Adam Peterson of USC before losing to even­tual champion and Stanford standout Mike Flannigan 2-6, 7-6, 0-6. 
"Ryan made a big statement," remarked Bayliss. "He is hitting the ball with more authority than this fall and his serve continues to improve." 
The other freshman worthy of merit is· Mike Mather. Mather made his first appearance for the team after coming back from back surgery he underwent last fall. Before losing a nail-biter to No. 15 Ari Nathan 5-7, 6­3, 4-6 in the second round, he beat Texas' 37th-ranked Ernest Ponci. 
Notre Dame senior standout Andy Zurcher also had an impressive showing at the NCTE by beating Chris Brons of Mississippi State before los­ing to USC threat John Leach 0-6, 4-6 in the second round. 
Notre Dame continues to grow as team as it prepares itself for the spring season and a shot at the NCAA tournament, to be held here at Notre Dame in May. 
Coaches Mobilize Temple coach John Chaney will likely lead a boycott against the NCAA's failure to rein­state a 14th basketball scholarship. see page 13 

Inside SPORTS 
Hoover leads Irish's first top-25 upset in two years 
By JASON KELLY sentially eliminating himself · 
Associate Sports Editor 

It was an 11th hour reprieve, restoring hope in a season that seemed to be spiraling toward a slow, turnover-induced death. 
Notre Dame is breathing again. 
Quite simply, Wednesday's 77-73 win over No. 25 Missouri was the biggest for the Notre Dame men's basketball team in nearly two years. 
"I thought that if we didn't win this game the season was gone," said Monty Williams, who scored 19 points to become the 37th Notre Dame player to surpass 1 ,000 career points. 
Gone instead are the doubts­at least for now. 
"Coach (John MacLeod) al­ways says we're waiting to ex­plode like a stick of dynamite," said sophomore guard Ryan Hoover, who had a game-high 25 points including eight free throws in the final minute. 
Notre Dame didn't exactly ex­plode like dynamite. A fire­cracker maybe. 
Williams scored the game's first eight points to light Notre Dame's fuse and Missouri star Jevon Crudup picked up a pair of fouls in the first two minutes. Crudup became tentative, es­

Montana's Time Joe Montana leads the Chiefs against the Houston Oilers as the former Irish QB is back in the playoffs. see page 11 
from Missouri's offense. He finished with 11 points, six in the second half. 
The Irish built their lead to nine after a pair of buckets from freshman center Marcus Hughes. 
But a couple of turnovers and a Lamont Frazier dunk later, Missouri was ahead 19-18. 
"Our defense was good at times," said disappointed Tigers' coach Norm Stewart. "When we made a little run at them, instead of putting doubt where there was doubt, we let them get out of it." 
It was Carl Cozen who finally lifted the Irish out of a five­minute first half scoring drought with two of his nine points. 
Cozen then drained a 3-point­er in the final minute of the half to give Notre Dame 30-28 half­time lead. 
The second half began much like the first with the Irish opening a quick seven point lead. 
Hoover hit a pair of 3-pointers and Williams added a thunder dunk to get the 9,571 fans off their hands. 
"When (Hoover) started mak­ing the threes in the second 
see UPSETI page 10 
No. 1 Falls 
Georgia Tech's James Forrest scores 22 points as the Yellow Jackets upset No. 1 North Carolina 
see page 10 








