---~----------------...., 


Friday, February 11, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 88 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SFRVING NOTIZE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC helps Brown's 'exceptional learners' 
By MOLLY CONDON News Writer  
Saint Mary's Elementary Education students are experiencing a new challenge this term. · Due to a joint effort by e·ducation professor Nancy Turner and special education supervisor Sharon Guiltinan, students enrolled in Educa­tional Psychology may take a three-week course titled Teaching Exceptional Learners. Teaching Exceptional Learners is a program joining Saint Mary's students with mentally handicapped students from Brown School in South Bend. Eight students between the ages of 18 to 21 years old come to Saint Mary's on Monday, Wednesday and Friday mornings. While here, they work on social skills with the students in the class. This includes intro­ducing themselves to other people and opening and closing conversations. After warming up their speaking skills in the classroom, the students leave in pairs to find a "red flag" which is usually a student who in not affiliated with this program. They can be any­one around campus, but are usually inside Madeleva Hall where the class is held. The Brown student approaches the red flag, accompanied by a Saint Mary's student and attempt to open a conversation. Most red flags are chosen on the spot, but the Brown students have learned to adapt quickly. The program, which is new this semester, is proving to be beneficial to all students involved. Saint Mary's students have a chance to interact with the Brown students in a controlled envi­ronment while earning field hours and the Brown students are able to practice their social skills outside of the classroom. In the future, the mentally handicapped will hopefully be integrated into a regular school system. This advanced form of mainstreaming, which is called inclusion, is the goal of the stu­dents from Brown. Paige Laderer, a teacher for severe disabili­ties at Brown says that of her 46 students, only 16 will be able to take the class at Saint Mary's. She reserves it for her more outgoing students. "Their interaction since the first class has improved greatly," added Laderer. The class is offered in two different sessions during this semester. Each session is three weeks long. The second session this semester will have  
see BROWN I page 4  


The Observer/Cynthia Exconde Jenny Moss, from the Brown School, Senior Terry Dundon and Saint Mary's junior Cyndi Herman work on communication skills as part of Saint Mary's new education program "Teaching Exceptional Learners." 
Health care reforms insufficiently understood 
By THERESEA ALEMAN 
Assistant News Editor 
President Clinton's health care reform proposal is ill-fated because it seeks to solve a 
problem which is widely unde­fined and insufficiently understood, according to University of Notre Dame 


p r o f e s s or s Father Richard F a t h e r McCormick Richard McCormick and David Solomon in their discussion of the morals and management of health care reform. 
Resolved that Americans spend roughly 16 percent of the gross national product on health care with costs threaten­ing to increase exponentially in the near future, an effective health care reform plan is not only desirable, but necessary, according to McCormick, a the­ology professor. 
This proposed reform plan must satisfy a demand of "dou­ble urgency," he said. The plan must provide universal health care, and it must cap costs. 
"We're in trouble," said Mc­Cormick, "but the Clinton re­form proposal is kaleidoscopic at best; it changes every day. The final package will bear no resemblance to the original." 
The Clinton plan proposes to organize alliances to provide universal medical insurance. These alliances will collect money from individuals and from corporations and in turn should offer two types of insur­ance coverage, low cost sharing and high cost sharing, ac­cording to McCormick. 
The alliances, in theory should foster competition among various plans for the best or most complete (yet in­expensive) coverage, thereby creating "managed" or gov­ernment-sanctioned competi­tion, according to McCormick. 
"The Clinton's proceeded from a moral impulse, but they fell into the hands of efficiency experts," said McCormick. The Clinton plan seeks to solve a moral dilemma with a man­agement cure. The plan is therefore destined to prove in­adequate at best, according to McCormick. 
Before health care reform can take place, two denials must be realized and overcome, according to McCormick. "The denials are of human mortality, and of the human need to be interdependent," he said. 
The notion that humans can transcend mortality and the notion that dignity necessitates independence are the primary barriers to health care reform, said McCormick. 
"I am even more pessimistic of the Clinton reform proposal than Father McCormick," began philosophy professor, David Solomon. 
The Clinton plan seeks to re­form health care by increasing the justice and efficiency of status quo health care. But the concepts of justice and effi­ciency elude stringent defini­tion, according to Solomon. 
"On one hand we want to give people what they deserve. If someone smokes, he doesn't deserve the same coverage as someone who eats healthily and exercises regularly. But on the other hand we want everyone to be treated equally; make everyone equally healthy. But everyone doesn't have the same medical needs, you can sink a fortune into some people and never make them healthy. One person might need virtually no health care at all until age 70. Another person's health, no matter how he lives, may demand intensive health care his whole life, " he said. 

Another approach to the just distribution of health care, said Solomon, is to give humanitar­ian, good people good health care. But the truly humanitar­ian people don't want good health care for themselves, but rather for others. "Mother Theresa doesn't want better health care, she wants better health care for other people whether they are good or bad." 
Of efficiency, Solomon said, "The more medical technology advances, the more sick people we have, because they aren't dying, they're just managing their illnesses. You can't mea­sure the efficiency of health care by how many sick people you have." 
"We also have the problem of 
see HEALTH CARE I page 4 
Consumer 
I 


needs key to globalization 
By JEREMY DIXON News Writer 
The key to globalization in the future is knowing the spe­cific needs of regional con­sumers, said Martin Nuechtern, vice-president and general manager of hair care products for Procter & Gamble at a roundtable discussion last night. 
Nuechtern, who received a masters of science administra­tion from Notre Dame in 1978, said that besides competing with global companies, we also "need to learn to compete with global consumers." 
"Consumer needs are global", stated Nuechtern, but the key to global success is knowing what to change when the com­pany enters a new market­place. The only way to accom­plish this goal is "to go to the consumers to find out what they want," said Nuechtern. 
He envisions a "globalization­localization continuum" on which the entrepreneur must find a proper balance. The company must change the product to meet the needs of the local consumers. If it does­n't, the product will fail. 
A company will try to pack­age the same product world­wide, but often runs into prob­lems. Consumers may not like certain colors or packaging, and will not buy those prod­ucts. Translation between cul­tures and languages also pose difficulties for the international company. 
To prospective students who want to compete in the interna­tional market, it is preferable to "go outside the country at the time that is best for you," citing family concerns. 
He also said that one key is "planning what you're going to do globally before you do it." He offered the example of Pam­pers, which came into the U.S. market in 1960. They are still expanding globally today. 
However, new products today are on the global market in two years. He said that is advanta­geous to enter a market first because "the guy who is first in the marketplace usually gets the cake." There is a very large market outside of the United States in which future busi­nesses must go in order to sur­vive. 
Nuechtern believes that with­in twenty-five years, there will only be three global companies 
see NUECHTERN I page 4 page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, February 11, 1994 


INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
t 

Garth Brooks lllania hits Notre Dallle 
Dear Garth: rm Shameless to admit Amy Zwerk that Wild Horses couldn't Advenising Oversight keep me away from your concert tomorrow night. I realize this sounds like the Same Old Story but Every Now and Then all of us feel we have Unanswered Prayers. Then suddenly some­thing spectacular happens like your concert. We Shall Be Free for a few short hours o stressful studies and the bitter South Bend win­ter. You will warm our spirits so that Every Time It Rains. The Thunder Rolls, or when the snow flies our hearts will be light. 
The Garth Madness began the minute the con­cert was announced. It was The Night I Called The Old Man Out for free delivery of our dinner. My roommate, Raven, and I were in the midst o killing each other over the last leg of the Dixie Chicken bucket. There we were, Hungry as Wolves, Kickin' and Screamin'. 
Jackie then stormed in with the great news that Garth was coming to campus. Right then and there, Raven and I realized we should start Learning to Live Again in harmony and work on getting tickets. It was time to Bury the Hatchet and formulate a plan. 
Forget about the unwritten papers, exams or what we're going to wear to The Dance, we just had to have tickets and God willing we would soon be face to face with Garth Brooks. 
Raven and I agreed to get up early and to be the frrst in line. Trudging across campus, we gave each other the Cold Shoulder, our eyes crimson with the Red Strokes of sleeplessness. 
We soon returned to our drafty dorm room victorious. Tickets secured, we began planning the Garth Party. The phone heated up. Between us we have many Friends In Low Places. I called home to Reese in the thumb o Michigan. Fve Got A Good Thing Going I tell Ross, Mr. Right as far as friends go, and assure him I have his ticket and one for our buddy 
Cowboy Bill. 
When asked where he'll sleep, I tell Ross it will be Somewhere Other Than The Night in Breen-Phillips, and that once parietals kick in, he;ll be Walking After Midnight over to Planner. 
The party plans for concert night gain momentum. Raven and I are Two of a Kind, Workin' on a Full House for this one. Not Counting You, Garth, everyone has made reser­vations. But no need to feel like Mr. Blue because there's always room for one more. As for Raven, What She's Doing Now is reinforcing our supply of Kool-Aid, the beverage of choice of the American Hanky-Tonk Bar Association. 
Finally the countdown begins. Today, Raven and I are beside ourselves with anticipation. As in "Groundhog's Day", If Tomorrow Never Comes, I know many Domers who will be really disappointed. With all of this hoopla, will tomorrow live up to our expectations? The Night Will Only Know. 
Welcome to Notre Dame and Party On, Garth! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Laura Ferguson Kira Hutchinson Dave Tyler Bridgette Farrell 
Sports Accent Tom Schlidt Kenya Johnson Steve Tankovich Viewpoint Carolyn Wil~ens Graphics Lab Tech Brendan Regan 

Record-breaking winter continues to assualt nation 
Freezing rain and sleet pelted the South from Texas to the Carolinas today, downing trees and power lines and covering roads with up to 4 inches of ice. 
Schools canceled classes in many areas, some post offices canceled deliveries, and in Arkansas, most state offices shut down in Little Rock. Thousands of people were left without power. 
"It looks like Mother Nature made a bombing run," said Wayne Nicholas, managing editor of the Bolivar Commercial in hard-hit Cleveland, Miss. "When I went outside this morning, you could hear limbs popping all over the place." 
Nicholas' newspaper was one. of the more than the 20,000 customers in Mississippi without power this morning, and a spokesman for Mississippi Power & Light Co. said the number was growing throughout the morn­ing. 
Ice also plagued West Virginia, which was trying to recover from the state's worst flooding in nearly a decade. The problems there were part of the storm sys­tem that pelted the Northeast and Midwest earlier in the week. In its wake, a cold <;nap sent temperatures plung­ing into single digits. 
Weather-related deaths this week reached at least 20: six in Minnesota; three in West Virginia; two each in Oklahoma, Illinois, New Jersey and New York state; and one each in Massachusetts, Arizona and Arkansas. 
In addition, two people were killed and a third critically injured this morning when an air ambulance crashed on takeoff in freezing rain near the San Antonio International Airport. In New Orleans, a commuter ferry collided with a tugboat in heavy fog, injuring several peo­ple. 
Up to 4 inches of ice coated roads in north and east Texas, virtually paralyzing the Dallas-Fort Worth area and snarling traffic as far south as San Antonio and Houston. A stretch of Interstate 10 was closed briefly this morning. 
Meanwhile, West Virginians were grappling with Wednesday's one-two punch of heavy rain that caused the worst flooding in years, followed by ice and snow that cut off power to thousands. _ 
Hundreds of West Virginians fled their homes along swollen rivers Wednesday as more than 4 inches of rain fell. Authorities compared the flooding to the 1985 floods that killed nearly 50 people and caused more than $500 
Ten year olds intend to drink frequently 
WASHINGTON 

Those fun-filled beer commercials at half-time may be influencing children to drink, according to research that found fifth-graders reciting slogans, reeling off brand names and saying they intended to drink frequently later in life. And they get plenty of chances to absorb those commercials whenever they watch sports on TV. Researchers counted 685 alcohol ads during 122 tele­vised sporting events, only three of which cautioned mod­eration in drinking. "Their beliefs are being influenced, their beliefs about the· positive consequences of drink­ing," said Joel Grube of the National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism's Prevent Research Center. The issue of alcohol advertising's impact on children has long been controversial. Teen-agers consume 1.1 billion cans or bottles of beer every year, and some researchers have linked such drinking to exposure to ads. The industry insists that it doesn't target underage consumers and that even if minors are exposed to the ads, it doesn't influence their behavior. But Grube, in two studies to be published Friday in the American Journal of Public Health, found that not only are children bombarded with alcohol adver­tising, they link drinking with "romance, sociability and relaxation.'' 

·' Buffalo .AW 197&-77  Cilicago  ~  1120185  -21•  1/18/114 §l  
;: Erie  1977-78  142.8  Cincinnati  -25'  1/18/77  -24'  1/19194  ;  
~-· Albany Gr,;197P-71 ..  112:5  ·• Oen.ver .  -25'  tfte/63  2•  ~ .,;  

. Denver ,,}972-73 94.9 i '..~..a•.n..sa.~···.!.....City =2;: 12/22/89 .:-1' 1/1~~ ' i• BQ$10n ,.iJ9:1'N8 85.1 .. '! .........,,, 1...i ~ -4" 1{1.,,..) ;.· Hartford 1966-67 82.8 Nashville -17' 1/21/85 -1' 1/19/94/1
i:c [)etro~ ~Wf{j)aHJ.2 74.() j fi.Y.C. . ~15' 2191$4 -3" 1/111/94 .. 
f·. Dayton 19n-78 62.7 ' Wash. b.c· -15' 2i1s99 -4'' 1/19/94 Plbburgh 19'77·18 62.2 ·J Hamaburg -14" 1/14112 -22' 1121194 Philadelphia 1977·78 54.9 , Atlanta -9' 2/1899 6" 1/19194 
L.~z=t:!~!~;::;~t.,,.!t ~::;ales ~~" :~~~ ~;: ~9~ 
Source: Accu-Weather, Inc. AP/Carl Fox 
million in damage. As the high water of the Monongahela River moved downstream toward the Ohio River, it flood­ed basements and streets in Point Marion, Pa. At least 50 people fled riverside homes in West Elizabeth, about 20 miles south of Pittsburgh. 
Maryland and Delaware also had problems with ice. "The trees are falling as fast as we put the lines up," said spokesman Bob Behlke of the Choptank Electric Cooperative on Maryland's Eastern Shore. 
Lake Superior, the largest of the Great Lakes, was declared ice-covered for the first time in close to 16 years. The last time the 31,800-square-mile lake was pronounced ice-locked was March 3, 1978. 
Brazil ratifies nuclear safeguard treaty 
BRASILIA, Brazil 

The Brazilian Senate ratified a nuclear safeguard treaty signed more than two years ago with Argentina and the International Atomic Energy Agency. The treaty, signed in December 1991 and approved Wednesday, per­mits regular inspection of the nuclear facilities in Brazil and Argentina, the only two Latin American countries with nuclear fuel cycle technology. The inspections will be made by a joint Brazilian-Argentine commission.. The Argentine congress ratified the treaty in August 1992. Brazil's approval was delayed because of opposition by some politicians. Neither country has signed the 1968 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. The treaty approved by the Senate includes an amendment that bans inspections of technological developments that Brazil wants to keep secret. The Brazilian navy's nuclear submarine project, for example, will not be subject to inspections. The amendment was approved by the International Atomic Energy Agency. Argentina has told the U.N. agency that it has two nuclear installations, six reactors for research, four nuclear fuel plants and one nuclear conversion plant. Brazil has one nuclear installation, four fuel reduc­tion plants and one reprocessing plant. 
NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 11. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY IC> 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

Eric Ruethling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Friday, February 11, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page3 



Atnish traditions tnisunderstood 
ByNICKRIOS 
News Writer 
Although the Amish and Mennonite communities are famous for their good food and 
old fashioned buggies, their simple life style is often misun­derstood by modern soci­ety, said Alvin Millers, 


a member of Alvin Millers the Amish Community, at a fireside chat yesterday. 
"The Amish community as well as the Mennonites have their beginnings with the An­abaptist Churches of Europe in 1525, when a group of believ­ers performed baptism on adults who made a voluntary confession of faith," said Father Tim Lichti. Lichti, is the direc­tor of Menno-Hof , an Amish­built and run museum in Ship­
. "The Anabaptist sought to restore the church to the purity ofits early days." 
The Anabaptist believed the church had been corrupted by state control which demanded all citizens be baptized as in­fants. They were violently per­secuted by Catholic and Protestant authorities who con­sidered their stance both heresy and treason. 
"The Amish, led by Jacob Ammann, began in 1693 with a group that split from the Menonites (another Anabaptist church)," said Millers. Today the Amish are located primarily in the United States and Canada and most of their 100,000 members live in Ohio, Indiana and Pennsylvania. 
"With this church open to outsiders to join, one of the toughest things for incoming women is that they have to ad­just to our ways which place the role of a woman in the house," said Millers. "They do 

Thursday, Feb. 10-Intradonn Snow Sculpting Contest Friday, Feb. 11-All night movies­Grown-up Fairy tal-es 8pm-3am 
Saturday, Feb.12-Mardi Gras Party  
LaFortune Ballroom  9pm-1am  
Sunday, Feb.13-Free Skating at the JACC  
2:30-4:30pm  Skate Rental included  .H!DI..  
Questions?? Call the S.U.B. Hotline at 1-6171  ~  



FRIDAY 

AND 
XYZ 
affair 
AT 

to take care of the family. This can sometimes be hard for the modern woman to accept." 
The Amish are a very peace­ful community, and do not be­lieve in war or violence. They are traditionally forgiving and understanding. 
"We have certainly had our share of conflicts with the out­side world. One known case was when people used to throw rocks at us, once they hit a baby and killed him. The family quickly forgave the assailant," said Tichli. 
Nowadays the Amish seldom have to endure attacks verbally or physically. Instead, their communities have been con­verted into tourist attractions as people are curious to see their lifestyle. 
Although it is important to study the Amish religion, it is hard to ignore those things that make them visually so different from us. For example, Amish refuse to own cars, and instead ride in horse buggies. They also have no electricity nor a tele­phone. 
Millers invited the attendants to share in a customary Amish meal, in order to better under­stand the Amish culture. The Multicultural Executive Council hosted the fireside chat in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Clinton says U.S. ground forces won't fight in Bosnia 
By TERENCE HUNT Clinton, at a news confer­Associated Press ence on Wednesday, made 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton today played down differences with Russia over NATO's threat­ened air strikes against Bosnian Serbs, saying there are no serious obstacles to carrying out promised attacks. 
For the second straight day, Clinton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin were unable to consult by telephone on NA­TO's decision. The White House cited "technical difficul­ties" and scheduling problems. 
Clinton indicated the prob­lem was in Moscow. Asked why he couldn't get through to Yeltsin, the president said, "I don't know. You'll have to ask them." 
Russia has traditionally sided with the Serbs, who have been threatened with NATO attacks unless they remove their weapons from around Sarajevo. 
"We have no reason to be­lieve at this point that there's a serious problem with our going forward," the president said. He said he received a let­ter from Yeltsin on Wednesday before NATO announced its decision. 
"Everything we have done with NATO is consistent with action the U.N. has already taken," Clinton said. "It's within the umbrella of the U.N. action and Russia was on the Security Council when that happened so I don't think we're doing anything inconsis­tent. There may be people within Russia that don't agree with this at all." 
clear the United States would not play a major combat role in Bosnia even though American war planes may be called upon to help silence the guns of Sarajevo. 
Clinton said U.S. ground forces would not take part in NATO's newly authorized mis­sion to get rid of the more than 500 heavy guns pointed down on Sarajevo by Bosnian Serbs. However, he acknowledged there would be risks from Serb air defenses for U.S. pilots on attack missions. 
"There is no such thing as a risk-free air operation," the president said. "I don't want to mislead the American peo­ple on that." However, he said Serb air defenses "are suffi­ciently rudimentary that the risks are minimal." 
Revolted by the slaughter last week of 68 people in a mortar attack in Sarajevo's central marketplace, NATO allies overcame months of doubts and hesitation and approved a U.S.-French ulti­matum giving Bosnian Serbs 10 days to withdraw their guns 13 miles from Sarajevo or face air strikes. 
"We hope that the Bosnian Serb actions will make air strikes unnecessary," a grim­faced Clinton said at a White House news conference. "But no one should doubt NATO's resolve. NATO is now set to act." 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher said today the NATO decision was "a strong determined action" to try to reduce the violence. 


Happy 21st Birthday 

ROCKY! We love you! 
Love, Mom, Dad & Maria 

$1500.00 SCHOLARSHIP 
for eight weeks of your summer devoted to service work 
* 
APPLICATION DEADLINE 
February . 11 
stop by the Center for 
Social Concerns 
for Info and nppltcnlton 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, February 11, 1994 
our lives. The Clinton health ical-technological control," said care plan lacks the resources to Solomon.





Standards sought for C-17 Health care 
stop the rise of medical costs Solomon and McCormick 
By JOHN DIAMOND 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration wants to further relax perfor­mance standards on the Air Force C-17 transport plane and pay $348 million to revive the troubled program it may cancel next year. 
Although costs are rising steadily and performance de-

Nuechtern 
continued from page 1 

worldwide in consumer prod­ucts. "The small fish will be eaten by the big fish," ~e said. 
In the current global market, Nuechtern said that "trade bar­riers or tariffs are short-term bandages. "The answer lies in "creating better products which the consumer will buy." 
When asked about Japan, Nuechtern said that "if we can't compete in Japan, we can't compete globally." Japan is the toughest market in which to 

Brown 
continued from page 1 

eight new Saint Mary's students and eight new Brown students. 
Turner said that because of the courses growing popularity, she has had to turn down sev­dining, the Pentagon's top ac­quisition official, John Deutch, said Thursday that the C-17 nevertheless delivers "absolutely critical" airlift ca­pability to ground forces. 
After Deutch's testimony be­fore the House Armed Services Committee, a congressional in­vestigator questioned the use­fulness of the program and said there are cheaper alternatives. 
compete because of trade bar­riers and Japanese companies which have been competing there for many years. 
The Austrian-born Nuechtern also stated that it is possible to affect markets and consumer wants. "It depends on their wants and needs, but it takes time." Sometimes, it is just in­creasing exposure to the prod­uct that will change consumer tastes. 
The roundtable discussion was preceded by a dinner spon­sored by the ND/SMC Council of International Business Development, and was held at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
era! students. She hopes his will lead to the class' longevity. 
Most of the education majors enrolled in the class are unsure as to exactly what the class will be like, but reaction to this first session has been positive. 
"As challenging as the class is, I'm going to miss the Brown students," junior Tricia Dud a said. 


Fresh Flowers 
Blooming Gifts & Green Balloons Plants 
10% Discount with Student ID ,. 256-7277 
-

The University s
• 

" • Choice for Flowers 

5 l\'linutcs fro1n Catnpus 703 West Edison Rd., Mishawaka (1 block west of Grape Rd.) Hours: Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat. 9-5 CAMPUS DELIVERIES DAILY 
continued from page 1 

the expansion of disease," said Solomon," I have a nephew about nine or ten. He's rude, undisciplined, dirty, mean. . . and he tells me, 'I have Atten­tion Deficit Disorder.' We apply medical terms to social ills or the inability to relate to others. So we can't even tell how many sick people we really have." 
Solomon continued, saying spending on health care is so exorbitant because of "our American desire for technolog­ical control over every aspect of because we want all the latest and most expensive technology available to us." 
"What do we do about the parents who want Human Growth Hormone for their eighth grade son who is too short for the basketball team? Or what if someone suddenly tells us we can't have kidney dialysis for our father who's 70? We spend too much money to keep us going for too long. . . and when it's time to give up, we can't even just die. we have to call in a suicide doctor, any­thing as long as we are in med-agreed that until Americans can relinquish the propensity toward independence over in­terdependence and the desire to cheat or postpone human mortality, health care costs will continue to milk the American economy, rendering attempts at reform fruitless or at least largely ineffective. 


If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631-7471. 


ANNE CUSICK 
of Diocese of Samoa • Pago Pago 
will be in LaFortune Student Center basement near the Society Bank on 
February 12 from 12:00 noon to 5:00p.m. to speak with those students who might be interested in the two year teaching program in American Samoa. 

Once ztpotz a time ... 
Kevin Costner, Julia Roberts, Robin Williams~ and Robin Wright ...Brought your favorite Fairy Tales to life in: 
8:00 pm Robin Hood 
10:15 pm  Pretty Woman  
12:15  am  Aladdin  
1 :45  am  The Princess Brid.e  

Friday, February 11 in the LaFortune Ballroom FREE REFRESHMENTS 
It''s a FUN and FREE night with a 
--·~---~--------~-­
·-----~-~------~------~-------------­









271,1177 
The Most Popular Nwnlx?r an Campus! 
Offer Good Thru 4.-13.-94 
page 5 


Administration says MIA search will not slacken 
By JIM ABRAMS Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The administration's top offi­cial on Asia told skeptical POW-MIA family members Thursday that the search for the missing will not slacken following the restoration of trade relations with Vietnam. 
"Our efforts will continue undiminished, indeed with fresh momentum," said Win­ston Lord, assistant secretary of state for East Asia and Pacific affairs. 
In testimony before a House Foreign Affairs Committee panel, Lord said there are more than 500 military and civilian personnel assigned to POW-MIA affairs and the issue "will remain a central focus of our relationship with Viet­nam." 
But leaders of several POW­MIA family groups said they were betrayed by President Clinton's decision last week to end the two-decade-old trade embargo on Vietnam. 
"The president has sold out the families as well as the POW activists," said Carol Hrdlicka, whose husband was captured in Laos and never accounted for. 
Ann Mills Griffiths, head of the National League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia, said Clinton's 
decision was premature and 
U.S. officials' praise of Vietnam for cooperating in ac­counting for the 2,238 missing was "vastly overstated, even distorted." 
Most major family groups and veterans organizations op­posed lifting the trade em­bargo, and lawmakers at the hearing expressed sympathy for their concerns. "You lost your husband fighting for his country and you shouldn't have to fight your country to get him back," Rep. Gary Ackerman, D-N.Y., the chair­man of the subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific, told Hrdlicka. 
John F. Sommer Jr. of the American Legion urged the subcommittee to "help get the POW-MIA issue back on track toward real, effective action." 
He recommended centraliz­ing POW-MIA activities in one office reporting directly to the defense secretary. declassify­ing all relevant documents, strengthening joint commis­sions with Russia, China and North Korea, establishing a joint standing congressional committee on POW-MIA affairs and withholding further favor­able actions toward Vietnam until Hanoi provides the fullest possible accounting of the missing. 

Country Florists & Gifts, Inc. 
by Dennis 

Valentine·s Day Balloons 
andF1owers 
Area wide Delivery 
~ 291-3927 


SI)IUNCJ IUU~AU l)i\NA1Ii\ (~I'I'Y IU~A(~II, l~tOJUJ)J\ 
•shell Island Party Cruises •Beach Bonfire Parties 
650' Gulf Beach Frontage 2 Outdoor Swimming Pools 1 Indoor Heated Pool Restaurant, 2 & 3 Room Suite -0 • · -.,_ s ::. • :  Tiki Beach Bar.Nolleyball Sailboats, Jetskis & Parasails Karaoke Beach Party Area Discount Coupons  
SANDPIPER-BEACON 17403 Front Beach Road ranama City Beach, fl 32413  RES[RVATIONS­1-800-488-8828  FROM $104 PER WEEK PER PERSON 4 PERSON OCCUPANCY  

DANIEL DAY-LEWIS MICHELLE PFEIFFER WINONA RYDER 

"A MASTERPIECE! IT'S PHENOMENAL!" 
-Joel Siegel. ABC-TV 
"A nMELESSLY ELEGANT DRAMA OF LOVE, YEARNING, PAIN AND PASSION." 
-David Sheehan, KNBCTV, LOS ANGELES 
9HEcAGEoP 




INNOCENCE 
COIHIBIA PICTCRES,_ 

.CAPP.VDE FI~A,_,MARTIN SCORSESE,_ DA.'i!EL DAY·LEI\lS MICHELLE PFEIFFER \\1~0NA RYDER 
1!~~\\0~E:'.:,~L~RBER\STEI\ ~.r.~TII WH~RTON ""':jAY~ARTh~a~~~~
1-------..:'l. 1·---1 ;8.\RBAR\DEFI\.\ ,\lARTI\SCORSESE --=-~'tlj 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 6:45 &9:45 CALL 631-7361 FOR TIMES AND DATES 
FOR ALL CINEMA AT THE SNITE FILMS 
..----~--~ --~-----~~~~ 
page6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, February 11, 1994 

House renews expired independent counsel bill 

By LARRY MARGASAK Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The House voted 356-56 to­day to renew the expired law that lets a court-appointed in­dependent counsel conduct criminal investigations of high government officials. 
Before approving the bill, ma­jority Democrats beat back a Republican attempt to have all criminal investigations of mem­bers of Congress handled by the neutral prosecutor. 
Instead the House backed a Democratic substitute. sup­ported by the Clinton adminis­tration. It would give the attor­ney general discretion to have the Justice Department conduct the probe of a lawmaker or apply for an independent coun­sel if it was in the public inter­est. 
An independent counsel has never been used to prosecute a lawmaker, although it was per­mitted under the old inde­pendent counsel law. 
The coverage of lawmakers was the key issue in House de­bate over reviving the inde­pendent counsel law, which expired in December 1992. The bill is similar to a measure passed by the Senate, and House sponsors said they ex­pect little difficulty in forging a compromise. 
The key vote, on a motion to substitute the Democratic lan­guage for the Republican alter­native, was 230-188. The House then adopted the Demo­cratic language on a vote of 339-76. 
Republicans sought to place members of the House and Senate in the same category as about 60 top administration of­ficials, including the president. 
Any criminal probe of those officials must be conducted by an independent counsel, be­cause it is assumed automati­
----~-----. 
Chinese -·xmerican. · Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge 
1\uthentic Szechuan, M:ndarin & Hunan Cuisiu 

, _ 

Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 
Voted Be~t·

Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 
Orkr11;~1 Restaurant
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Mil:hiana bv 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend Michiana Nvt~· ,:·
(next to Randall's Inn) '. 
The Nation's Most Progressive Retail Floral Merchandiser 
WE GUARANTEE YOUR SATISFACTION! 

Fresh Flowers & Plants for All Occasions 
o 
BALLOONS o WIRE SERVICE o SILK & DRIED 

o 
FUNERALS o WEDDINGS FLOWERS 


WE DELIVER 
OPEN EVENINGS & WEEKENDS 
FTD WIRE SERVICE 
Full Service Florist Stop or order by phone. All Major Credit Cards Accepted 
1404 N. IRONWOOD DR. 
•

(2 BLKS. E. OF NOTRE DAME) SOUTH BEND, IN 46635 
(219) 


288-3995 
cally that an investigation by the Justice Department would be a conflict of interest. 
"There has been no hesitancy to prosecute members of Congress," said Rep. John Bryant, D-Texas, who spon­sored the discretionary lan­guage. He suggested that Re­publicans only need to "pur­chase subscriptions to daily newspapers" to see that the Justice Department is con­ducting criminal investigations of lawmakers. 
Rep. George Gekas, R-Pa., who the sponsored language for mandatory coverage, ar­gued that the attorney general should not have the option of investigating "a high-ranking, high-profile member of Con­gress" of the same party. 
Gekas asked members to agree with him "there's some­thing wrong with that picture," and added that Americans 
The Observer/Catherine Marciano 
were disgusted with Congress' 
The dance of the dragon 
failing to apply to itself laws it passes for other Americans. 
Freshman Caroline Quinlan and Saint Mary's rung in the Chinese New Year in the lounge of Regina North 
The main question before the 
with a traditional dancing dragon. The celebration included food and dancing, and was sponsored by the 
House remains whether to re­
Student Activities Board. We are entering the year of the dog in the Chinese calendar. 
new a law that, from 1978 through 1992, provided for court-appointed independent SECURITY BEAT counsels to investigate allega­
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
tions of wrongdoing by top of­
A Holy Cross Memorial Concert* 
ficials of the executive branch. In the opening debate Wednesday, Democrats insisted 
Guillermo Fierens 
the attorney general should 
Guest Classical Guitarist 
decide who prosecutes each case, even when a member of Congress is being investigated. Arguing that the law is designed to prevent conflicts of interest, Democrats said there is no automatic conflict when the Justice Department investi­gates a lawmaker. 
Insisting that members of Congress be subject to the law, Gekas said, "Congress exempts 

Don•t
itself on a thousand and one 
mandates it imposes on other 
drink and drive! 
people. Here is an example 
we're trying to correct." 


Friday, February 11, 1994 

Fears persist a year after beating 
By KARIN DAVIES 
Associted Press 
LIVERPOOL, England 

When Jim Ninnim pushed his baby granddaughter's carriage into the shopping mall this week, his daughter warned him: "You won't leave her, you won't take your eyes off her." 
A year ago, in the same shop­ping center, two 10-year-old boys lured little James Bulger from his mother, took him to an empty railway yard and beat him to death. 
Now Ninnim sat in a cafe at the mall, dividing his attention between sleepy Samantha Rose and a cup of hot chocolate, ex­plaining his daughter's fears. 
It was easy, he said, to imag­ine another child straying from his mother among crowds mov­ing swiftly in the airy avenues of the mall. 
"But I can't imagine why two lads would take a baby and kill him," Ninnim said. 
This is the same cafe where a woman recalled seeing the young killers, Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, with 2-year­old James on Feb. 12, 1993, hours before they tormented and killed him. 
Their trial explored a horrify­ing crime in painful detail. Ev­ery blow and every minute of a child's terror was laid out for the jurors. 
Grainy images captured on security cameras -a small blond boy wandering in the mall, then following two older boys, then disappearing -be­came imprinted on the world consciousness. 
But the question no one has answered is, "Why?" 
To the police, Robert and Jon are freaks of nature, evil mon­sters whose crime was an iso­lated incident. 
The boys blame each other. Each mother blames the other's son. Robert's mother, Ann Thompson, also blames his 
teachers and social services workers. 
Others have blamed broken families, horror videos, the church, the government, greed and the boys' mean and dispir­iting neighborhoods. 
Forget the idyllic images of English literature, of charming narrow streets and quaint cot­tages. Northern Liverpool is grim and gray, an ugly sprawl of brick and concrete. 
In the neighborhood where James died, graffiti mars the 19th-century church, tomb­stones are toppled in the ceme­tery where the only visible grass grows between the graves. 
The litter-strewn railway where James' battered body was found last Valentine's Day is still a playground in a neigh­borhood with few places for children. 
Children have to be tough in this neighborhood where jobs and money are hard to come by. Less than 2 miles east of the docks that once made Liverpool a rich port city, the area's for­tunes have declined with the shipping industry. 
James Bulger's tragic death was a catalyst for national con­cern about the lawlessness of Britain's youth. 
"It made us wake up to the fact that young people at the fringe of our society are beyond control," said Barry Ryan, a member of the local council in James' neighborhood of Kirkby. 
But he worries that nothing will change. 
"I fear, and I hope I'm wrong, that we're back to where we were before the James Bulger case," Ryan said. "People tend to forget." 
L 
0 
v 


1357 N. Ironwood Corner of Edison 
~Ironwood 

20% Discount on full &rvice Must have <£>tudent ID 234--6767 
full &rvice <£>alon 
llair • 8kin • Nails 
A VEDA .. 
l'IIE ART AND SCIEN< :E 

lll' rljRE 1'1.0\VER ANn PLANT ESSENCE~ Hair Care • Skin Care • Cnlnur Cnllmclic~ 
DOMINOS PIZZA 



®271-0300 
Two for 
Cheese Pizza $1 per topping 
Cheese Pizza 
99¢ 

$1 per topping 
Twisty Bread with Pizza Order 
VALID AT THIS LOCATION FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY 
SUN-THUR FRI-SAT 
4:80 p.m. · 1 a.m. 1835 SOUTH BEND AVE 4:80 p.m. ·2 a.m. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,CXJO Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service -$2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

Open on o/afentine 's Seating 5-9 9r{akg. your 1Wervations 
WHAT KIND OF FONDUE DO \VE OFFER? 
cheesc•bccf•chid . .:n scalmxl•vegetable• 
Flaming chocolate 
J!E Aese<va:•'}OS Rec~ -i 219-255-1526 -1I Tues . n'll}(~ ~;earrrg ~::>,ill -9r· r I 
FC~ & 6al :,edl>ng 5p.rn 10 p "' 
' KA 1'\. 
j_
:noCE~TF:R•MISH·\~t\ ·. Upper ~ e'9' Old f3•ewery Bldg 

page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 11, 1994 

You Are Invited to Attend 



"Winning in the Value-Conscious '90s" 
A Procter & Gamble Presentation 
on the Key to Creating and Leveraging 
Consumer Value 
Featuring 
Mike Milligan Senior Vice President 
New Date: Tuesday, February 15 

5:30p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
Rescheduled from january 20, due to inclement weather. We apologize for any inconvenience. 
Reception Meet P&G managers from: immediately following. • Finance Food and beverages • Sales will be served. • Management Systems Dress is casual. • Product Development Students from • Product Supply all majors welcome. • Brand Management 
8 ~P,-=, ·•E


-&Gamble 
By RYAN SHARKEY Business Writer 
Contrary to popular opinion, there is room at the Inn. Just don't try to find any on a foot­ball weekend. 
The Morris Inn, a University­owned nonprofit organization, is the only hotel on the campus of the University of Notre Dame. While the enormous demand for a room in the shad­ow of the football stadium would seem enough to fill the Inn years in advance, this is not the true reason why the hotel is inaccessible. In fact, it is impos­sible for anyone to get a room on these weekends. 
Nine advisory councils use the Inn on separate weekends during the fall to meet with University heads to discuss the conditions outside of Notre Dame, according to James Gib­bons, director of special events and protocol for the University. 
The members of these coun­cils are appointed by the University to guide various aspects of the University to­ward the future. The council members arrive on Thursdays and meet until the weekend's coup de gras, the football game. The members must pay for their transportation and then the University picks up the rest 
' 

Federal radio frequencies opened for private use 
By RANDOLPH SCHMID Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The government freed a por­tion of its radio frequencies for private use today and sched­uled an even bigger chunk of the federal airwaves to go pub­lic. 
The airwaves designated for public use could be turned over as soon as August, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration said. 
Federal agencies will give up some 200 megahertz of radio frequencies by the year 2004 under terms of last year's bud­get act. The Defense Department appears to lose the most frequencies, though other agencies will also give up some bands. 
The affected agencies were consulted in the process of deciding which frequencies to make public, NTIA officials said. 
The bands will be turned over to the Federal Communications Commission, which will auction them off. 
The 50 megahertz designated for public use currently carry military communications and 
MARKET ROUNDUP 
military radar testing signals. 
Congress last year approved a plan to auction a portion of the governments frequencies for use in the expanding per­sonal communications indus­try. 
The frequencies total 200 megahertz of broadcasting and could be used for such things as personal communications systems, new generations of wireless telephones, computers and fax devices. 
The administration has esti­mated that auctioning off the frequencies could raise as much as $7 billion. 
Many in the telecommu­nications and computer in­dustries envision a day when consumers will be able to make calls with a wireless telephone from any location in the world, no matter how far from an urban center. 
They also imagine tiny, hand held computer devices that could send and receive faxes and other types of documents and images. 
But alf of these ideas require some use of the airwaves, and currently all the space allocat­ed to private industry is in use. 
CAMPUS BUSINESS PROFILE 

THE MORRIS INN 

Opened: 1952; remodeled 3 times, most recently in 1981 
Business goal: ''To be self-sufficient working with the budget given by the University" 
Management philosophy: ''Treat people like you want to be treated...our employees are our most important resource" 
Marketing strategies: Highlight facilities and attractions of the University; invite corporate conferences, trade shows, and workshops 
-David Harr General Manager 

of the tab. 
David Harr, General Manager of the Morris Inn, hopes that students and their parents are not discouraged by the hotel's lack of space on football week­ends. 
"I want the students to use the Inn more. It's just like any other part of the University." The hotel has a restaurant, cocktail lounge, does photo pro­cessing, and even makes its own ice cream. 




BUSINESS 
Friday, February 11, 1994 page 9 
The Morris Inn caters to needs of campus community 
The Observer/ Catherine Marciano The Morris Inn continues to attract alumni and conference gatherings with its convenient location and top quality service. 
While recent advertising has tried to capture the student's interest, the Inn's focus re­mains on corporate confer­ences, workshops, trade shows, and local community banquets. 
Along with its five banquet rooms, the hotel has its own banquet catering facility. It staffs and serves events at the Center for Continuing Educa­tion (CCE) and on the 14th floor of the Library. The CCE hosts conferences regularly and has an underground tunnel which connects it to the Morris Inn. On the other hand, the 14th floor is used for receptions and meals associated with special University events such as grad­uation. 
The Morris Inn was built on a one million dollar gift from Earnest E. Morris and opened its doors in 1952. 
"The Inn's first mission was and remains to serve the Notre Dame community. It is the University hospitality center," emphasized Harr. 
The Morris Inn is also used for local events in keeping with University President Father Edward Malloy's goal of im­proving the University's rela­tions with the surrounding community. 
Events such as the upcoming Juniors Parents Weekend re­quire the Morris Inn to hold a lottery in an attempt to give all parents an equal chance to stay on campus. 
Looking at its business goals, the hotel hopes "to be self-suf­ficient working with the budget given to it by the University." said Harr. 
The Inn's advertising, though, is interwoven with the University's facilities. Brochures offer the use of the campus's recreational facilities and emphasize its beauty to at­tract visitors. 
Through it all, the Inn's busi­ness remains fairly constant. While the recent depression in the economy decreased the number and length of confer­ences and conventions, the Inn was never at a loss for activity. "The last six months have seen a noticeable recovery," states Harr. 

US warns Japan to honor trade pledges 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
After almost 30 different U.S.­Japanese trade agreements since 1980, the Clinton admin­istration says this is it: The United States will not accept another meaningless market­opening pledge from Japan. 
Continuing their tough talk today, administration officials said they were still at logger­heads with the Japanese on the eve of the summit meeting be­tween President Clinton and Japanese Prime Minister Mori­hiro Hosokawa. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher this morning said Japan must now put its eco­nomic relationship with the United States on the same sound footing as the diplomatic and security relationship be­tween the two countries. 
"We need to address the tremendous trade surplus that Japan has with the United States, and we need to have a substantial improvement in our economic relationships," he said at the outset of a meeting with Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata. "There has not been sat­isfactory progress." 
U.S. officials have been in-
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

AP File Photo 

President Bill Clinton's administration toed a hard line in anticipating the upcoming trade summit between the U.S. and Japan. 
creasingly vocal in their hard line. 
"Japan is out of step with the rest of the industrialized world. It is time for Japan to come in line," says Deputy Treasury Secretary Roger Altman, who claimed that Japan's record trade surpluses were draining jobs and growth not just in America but around the world. 
"The Japanese markets are closed by any measure that you might want to use," said U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor. 
That tough talk and a soaring U.S.-Japan trade imbalance that jumped 20 percent last year to almost $60 billion has heightened tensions on the eve of Clinton's first summit with Hosokawa. 
Negotiators trying to wrap up trade agreements in time for Clinton and Hosokawa to sign Friday broke off talks Tuesday night when the U.S. side de­clared the discussions were at an impasse. 

11/1/93 1211/93 1/1/94 211/94 311/94 
February 10, 1994 


4025 3950 3875 3800 3725 3650 3575 

WASHINGTON WOODBURN, Ind. WASHINGTON 
Although the U.S. economy is The local president of the Teenagers pour about $240 slowing from the torrid pace of United Rubber Workers union million a year into state and late last year, it still will post said he won't recognize a vote federal tax coffers by buying ci­the strongest growth in six this weekend on Michelin's lat­garettes, mostly from stores il­years in 1994, top economists est offer to keep a Uniroyal legally selling to minors, a re­suggest. Goodrich tire plant open. searcher estimated Thursday. 
The consensus of 50 analysts The vote is being conducted That doesn't necessarily mean surveyed this month by Blue by the international union, but governments have a financial Chip Economic Indicators fore­Local 715 President Ray Wise­incentive to look the other way casts economic growth of 3.3 man told a federal judge in Fort when minors buy cigarettes, percent this year. fastest since Wayne on Wednesday that he but enforcing laws on underage the 3.9 percent expansion in opposed it. smoking "isn't a priority," said 1988. Dr. Michael Cummings. 




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, February 11, 1994 

Rep. Mfume's dilemma with the Nation of Islam is not unlike some dilemmas at Notre Dame. 
I personally do not pay close attention to Louis Farrakhan's teachings. 
I have noted that in the past he has preached what I thought to be anti-white beliefs, "Hymie is not a racial slur ...Hitler was a great man." 
However, I have seen first­hand in Washington, D.C. the effect his followers have had in ridding inner city neighbor­hoods of drugs and crime. Consider me apathetic when it comes to the bow-tied crowd who belong to the Nation of Islam until last week. 
A top Farrakhan aide, Khalid Abdul Muhammad, labeled the pope a "cracker,"called Jews "the bloodsuckers of the black nation," and urged black South Africans to "kill everything white." Responding to criticism from Jesse Jackson and other civil rights figures, the black separatist refused to repudiate the incendiary speech. Responding to criticism of the speech, Farrakhan called him­self a victim of a Jewish con­spiracy. 
Rep. Kwesi Mfume is cur­rently serving as the Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus. He is a baseball player on the Democratic Member's Team for which I am one of the coaches. So I have had the op­portunity to interact with him on a more personal level than most Congressional staff mem­bers. I find him to be an extremely intelligent and artic­ulate person. I am so impressed with him that I would personal­ly rather see him as Speaker of the House than those who cur­rently hold leadership positions. 
DOONESBURY 
Farrakhan's initial actions have created a personal as well as political dilemma for Mfume. Here is a man who, according to one of my friends, gave up his slave name to adopt one with religious and ancestral roots. He believes in many of the principles supported by Farrakhan, but not with such extremist rhetoric. 
Yet, last week after the speech, Mfume had to confront Farrakhan to urge his denunci­ation of those statements or lose the backing of the Congressional Black Caucus. 
Eventually Farrakhan wisely refuted his assistant's remarks at a press conference. But Mfume went the extra mile in his denunciation of the re­marks. He mentioned each af­fected group specifically instead of using Farrakhan's tactic of mentioning the speech in gen­eral. 
Mfume reassured Jews, Catholics, and whites, as well as included gays by specifically saying that anti-Semitism, anti­Catholic hate, homophobia, and anti-white remarks have no place in our society. He went out of his way to include every­one who may have been of­fended so that his credibility could be preserved, and so that he could work with those groups toward common goals in the future. 
Mfume has done what all civil rights leaders before him have done to insure the success of their cause. He has placed truth and equality above politics. Nobody can argue with the fact that hate is destructive and must be eliminated in both the black as well as the white com­munities. Nobody can look at the motives of someone like Mfume when his values are memories long to remember erant the ND community really above reproach. the bombings and murdered is when on campus I hear stu­

I cannot help but parallel doctors, acts of violence from dents say things like, "I hate Mfume's dilemma with one I those bolder ones who got the faggots" or hear staff tell a had last semester. I remember same signals from others like "faggot" joke. reading of a Notre Dame stu­our ND student. Those same nasty tones also dent who was quoted as saying I think of people in the Notre proliferate during the debates 
in The Observer regarding 

that he wanted to be arrested in front of an abortion clinic. He wanted to obstruct people from gaining entrance, and indirectly gave the impression that any­one who was bolder than he could attempt other means to stop women from seeking abor­tions or doctors from per­forming those abortions. 
We do not have to search our racism, homosexuality, abor­tion, and our "screwing out of being number one in football." I want to brush off some of those advocates as being young, immature. But can the exuber­ance of youth be blamed on similar conduct in the dor­mitories or classrooms? I think not. 
Maybe the next time you stu­dents enter the dining hall, make an effort to sit with some­one of a different race "just for a different dining experience." Or the next time anyone sees an openly gay person on campus, go up and tell that person that you admire his strength in light of all the harassment they take from everyone. 
Better yet, the next time you disagree with someone, whether it be a difference of opinion, difference of moral values, or just a difference of lifestyle, listen to your own words in your head before they pass your lips. If we all took that extra second, Rep. Mfume would not have had to de­nounce one of his brothers, and I would not feel so upset at 
Dame community as being rea­some of our Notre Dame 
sonable, as having many simi­zealots. 
lar values and goals. But I also 
see them more than vigorously Gary Caruso, Notre Dame 
disagree with those who are Class of 1973, works in 
sometimes different or think Washington, D.C. as a desktop 
differently. It astounds me how publishing specialist for the 
much campus hate is directed U.S. House of Representatives. 
toward those who advocate a His column appears every other 
woman's right to have an abor­Friday. 
tion. I also wonder just how tol-
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Friday, February 11, 1994 page 11
VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Courtesy, respect must be learned in order to be lived 
Dear Editor: 
The concept behind Play of the Mind was to discuss the issues faced at a Catholic Women' s College. I was a team member and active par­ticipant in the activities at the conference. 
I first want to thank the 
like token representatives of our colleges. 
As a result of the disparity in the conference issues. many of us "minority" women broke away from the confer­ence activities in order to dis­cuss the issues facing all women: 
The majority of our 

ation of difference. The stares were given as an attempt to intimidate. They were a non­verbal exchang~ of hatred, fear, and ignorance meant to communicate that the differ­ences were unwanted. Many may ask if we are being too sensitive to these "normal" reactions. I want to respond as much from these women's experience and knowledge. 
Unfortunately, the situation and experiences that brought all of us women in that discus­sion together provided us with a clear picture of the reality of our worlds. The reality is that things like the color of our skin and obvious other differ-student body, I have decided to pose a challenge to the Saint Mary's community. 
First of all, it was my observation that Saint Mary's College was far behind on the issues of diversity, openness to other religions, sexual pref­erence, and change, in com­parison to the other Catholic 

There were many things I found to be disappointing about the conference itself. First was the fact that many issues pertaining to women of color, lesbians, non -Catholics, and older, non-traditional stu­dents and faculty in atten­dance were not discussed. The discussions and issues covered were geared towards the white, middle class. straight, and young perspec­tive. 
The superficiality of the discussions and lack of sensi­tivity to the diversity of partic­ipants caused many of us "minority" women to feel uncomfortable, unwanted and conversation dealt with the experiences and emotions concerning the overwhelming problem of exclusion and stereotyping among women. This stereotyping occurs, even at this all women's Catholic College Conference. It was disappointing and frustrating to hear that these extremely intelligent, aware, and articu­late "minority" women from all over the country were treated to a "reality check" on the situation of women in the world. 
For example, they were greeted with stares, filters, and blockades. The stares were not done out of appreci­with a result of these "nor­mal" reactions. 

The stereotypes prevented a free exchange of ideas and discussion with those groups all because these issues were ignored throughout the con­ference. The final example concerns the assumption that everyone in attendance was heterosexual. I found I was even guilty of that insensitiv­ity. However, we were able to get past our differences and discuss the important issues we all face in our conversa­tion. 
Unfortunately many were not aware of our discussion and were not able to receive ences really do matter. 
Although I was never oblivi­ous to this reality, I want to be able to believe in the promise and purpose of an all-female college. It is supposed to be a place where we as women, all women, are able to thrive~ identify, and empower our­selves. Unfortunately, for my­self and those in that discus­sion we discovered that an all­female Catholic college really is a place for white, Catholic, straight, young women to thrive, identify, and empower themselves. 
As far as bringing this prob­lem to the Saint Mary's College administration and with trying to remember that on this "Catholic" campus we need to increase the level of common courtesy and respect for human life and each other. We need to try to remember that we are all human beings first, and male, female, brown, black, white, red, yel­low, rich, poor, gay, lesbian, young. or old, second. If we cannot learn this at an all women's Catholic college, then we will never be able to live it. 
TERESA MARQUEZ 
Senior 
LeMans Hall 
The New Testan1ent overlooked? 
Reader responds· ironically to prior column 
Dear Editor: 
Frank Pimentel deserves commendation for a penetrat­ing and courageous column, "Economic and moral reform needed for violence (The Observer, Feb. 4, 1994). 
He overlooks, however, a potential source of great wis­dom for the movement to abolish public assistance pro­grams such as AFDC: The New Testament. 
True, the gospels lack the moral authority of National Review and fail to mention any children conceived out of wedlock. Nevertheless they supply guidance to the mem­bers of a Christian campus on this complex issue. 
Read the gospels very care­fully. Never do they describe Jesus as acting or speaking with compassion toward poor people. In fact, many Biblical scholars argue that poverty probably did not exist in ancient Palestine; poverty was virtually unknown in human society before Lyndon Johnson's Great Society pro­grams. 
Rather, the gospels present a Christ who lectured inces­santly on the work ethic. Surely none can forget His advice to the young man who asked if more was demanded than obedience to the law: "Go, sell all your possessions, and invest the money in a high-earning tax shelter." 
The lesson is obvious. To aid our lazy sisters in achieving righteousness we have no choice but to sever the wel­fare checks fattening their brood of vipers. We, for our • effort, will store up treasures in heaven. After all, when we do it for the least of these .... 
Furthermore, Jesus left little doubt that the Christian should stigmatize women who practice fornication. Recall His words to the lawyers and Pharisees about to stone a woman caught in adultery: "Truly I tell you, stonings may or may not be good for those on the receiving end, but their deterrent effect on others is wonderful.. .. and indispens­able. 
"Our Lord proceeded to dis­course on family values while the elders cast stones. 
Unfortunately our govern­ment cannot employ stoning for risk of killing an unborn baby. Few people realize that abortion represents one of the few topics upon which Jesus ever preached. For this rea­son, the right to life of the unborn is the only social issue which can ever motivate the true Christian. Our call is clear: Suffer the innocents to come into this world and per­ish of malnutrition as an example to those who would sow violence. 

Outside of public vilification, there is no better way fGr a Christian to dissuade a woman from abortion than ensuring her child would suf­fer and die in squalor. 
And if enough of the welfare deadbeats who infest our cities like maggots and beg for scraps like Lazarus were to die, we Christians could inherit the earth. 
PAUL PERL 
Graduate Student in Sociology 
Fischer Graduate Residences 

Purpose of musicians should never be to "make money" 
Dear Editor: 

Dave Tyler babbles, com­plains, and categorizes in his ridiculous article, "Alternative music's identity crisis" (The Observer, Feb. 7, 1994). 
First of all there is no alternative music. That is sim­ply a term generated for a quick-sell by the music industry powerhouses. 
Tyler does not realize that there is a huge problem when a band moves into mainstream. It loses its identity and musical integrity. It may sell out and allow the producers and major record labels to dictate its sound and message (i.e. Urge Overkill). Worst of all, this band that sold out now plays to mas­sive stadiums where before they may have played medium to small sized clubs in which the artificial barrier between the performer and the audience is dismantled. 
Tyler says, "There are just two things the alternative music crowd needs to remem­ber: one, to make money, you need to sell records and two, to sell records you need to pro­duce music people will like." Before this statement, Tyler rails against the notion of a cat­egory of alternative music. Now he categorizes "the alternative music crowd." The problem I have with Tyler's above state­ment is its ignorance in terms of art as a music form. 
The goal of a musician should not be to "make money." That is the most "sellout" one can be. Also, why should music be something all people like? I like music that grates on me. Other people don't. So should the bands I listen to now change their sound in order to "make money?" Obviously not. This is not musical snobbery. Sometimes people will come up to me and say, "Hey, do you 
'Ilike music that grates 
on.  Other people  
don't.'  
Dave McMahon  

like Nirvana, you look like them. I love 'Smells Like Teen Spirit,' blah, blah." All the time I find myself thinking: a) Nirvana has been around a long, long time, and b) Once again, the American short attention span triumphs. 
So Dave, next time you rail and whine about .whiners in the "alternative music crowd," realize that the purpose of some music is to criticize the get-rich, screw-everything atti­tude of America, not celebrate it. 
DAVE McMAHON Sophomore Morrissey Hall 

friday 
evants 
"Orlando," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 and 9:30p.m., $2. 
•ic 
The Killing Floor, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9:30. p.m. 
saturday 
events 
SMC Basketball vs. Beloit College, 3 p.m., Angela Athletic Facililty {AAF). "Orlando," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 and9:30 p.m., $2. 
•ic 
The Killing Floor, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9:30 p.m. 
sunday 
events 
Carolyn Plummer, violinist and William Cerny, pianist. Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum, 2 p.m., free admission and open to the public. 
movies
'· 
University Pn East 
Carlito's Way 7, 9:50 
Remains of the Day 7, 9:55 

Adams Family Values 7:30, 9:40 
My life 7:15,9:40 
Geronimo 7:10, 9:30 

A Dangerous Woman 7:15, 9:20 
University P•k West 
Perfect World 7, 9:45 The Three Musketeers 7:15, 9:35 Nightmare Before Christmas 7:30, 9:20 

The Observer • ETC. Friday, Februa 

ra 

The 27th Annual Sophomore Liu 
Charles Johnson-~:? 
hen he won the National Book
W Award last year, novelist Charles Johnson made history. He was the first African-American male to cap­ture that prestigious literary honor 
since Ralph Ellison won it in 1953 for "Invisble Man" 
The work which elevated him to nationwide literary acclaim, as well as into the public lime­light, was his novel "Middle Passage." The piece is an adventurous yet philosophical story of a freed black man who stows away on a ship only to discover that it is a slaver bound for Africa. 
Tri-Star pictures is already in the process of turning the novel into a major feature film. 
Motived by the experience of attending a lec­ture by Amiri Barake, Johnson became an early founder of several groups just launching the then-new discipline of Black Studies. 
It was Baraka's call for black artists to bring their talents home to black people that attracked him to drawing illustrations, according to Johnson. In 1970 he published the first of two collections of cartoons. 
Johnson moved onto writing to broaden his range of expression and studies with famous novelist John Gardner. In 1974 Johnson pub­lished his first novel, Faith and the Good Thing and in 1982 Oxherding Tale was released. 
Johnson also authored a shortstory collection titled "The Sorcerer's Apprentice" and a recent arts movement of the 1960s have urged us con­work of literary criticism, Being and Race: Black trol our images. But since the late 1940s Ellison Writing Since 1970. has counseled us to expand our images," said 
Johnson, although pas-~-----~~---,--------,Johnson. 
sionate about his early work WORKS Director of the Creative in Black Studies, stresses Writing program, Johnson that a serious African-Black Humor holds an endowed chair in American student of philos-Half-Past Nation Time Humanities at the University ophy or art must pursue a Faith And The Good Thing of Washington. Currently broad study, not just black Oxherding Tale Johnson is working on an epic arts or literature, in order to The Sorcerer's Apprentice historical novel about famed truly create freely. Being and Race: Writing Since 1970 civil rights leader Dr. Martin 
"Proponents of the black Middle Passage Luther King, Jr. 
Joy Harjo------­
Two cultures are represented in the work of Joy Harjo: her
Wluit I Should 
mainstream American heritage and her Native American her­
Have Said 

itage. Harjo was born in 1951 in Tulsa to the Muscogee tribe (of the Creek nation). She attended the Institute of American Indian Arts in Santa Fe, 
There's nothing that says you 
New Mexico, and then the University of New Mexico. She was in can't ""'' · 
the first graduating class of the creative writing program at the 
call. I spend the weekdays 
University of New Mexico and presently is a professor of creative 
teaching~ 
writing at the university. She has also taught creative writing at 
and moving my children from 
the University of Arizona, and has served on a policy panel for the 
breakfast 
National Endowment for the Arts. 
to bedtime. What else, I feel like 
Harjo has written several screenplays and has published four 
a traitor 
books of poetry and short stories. She has won several awards for 
telling someone else things I 
her work, including an Academy of Poets Award in 1978, two 
can't tell 
National Endowment of the Arts Fellowships, and the Josephine 
to you. What is it that keeps us 
Miles Award for Poetry from PEN Oakland (1991). She also won 
together? 
the Poetry Society of America's William Carlos Williams Award in 
Fingertip to fingertip, from 
1991. 

Santa Fe ..,, 
Harjo's books are What Moon Drove Me to This?, She Had some to Albuquerque? 
Horses. Secrets from the Center ofthe Wind, and In Mad Love and 
I feel bloated with what J 
War. She is moving away from her original style to one that is should say 'ii~",~if! 
more prosaic. Her next collection, The Field ofMiracles, will be a 
and what I don't. We drift, and 
prose narrative. 

drift, with few storms of heat in between the motions. I love you. The words confuse me. Maybe they have become a cushion ~i keeping us in azure sky and in flight '5-. not there, not here. We are horses knocked out with 
tranquilizers·~, 
sucked into a deep deep sleep­ing for the comfort and anesthesia death. We are caught. between clouds and wet earth and there is no motion 
either way no life to speak of. 


~ -------~------------·----------------~---.......-~---------­
The Observer • ETC. page 13 

rary Festival brings gifted authors to Notre Dame 
-------JuneJordan-------­
A strong believer in the power of the pen, June Jordan is determined " ... to 
day I did things fast use what I loved, words, to fight for the __.. -picking up leaves ..,. . people I loved." scrubbing a saucepan clean~-":;" 
An abused, only child born in Harlem, . " racing th_rough an Asian American anthology 
Jordan was raised in the Bedford-Struyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn. · ofpoems Jordan developed an interest in Ian-All because it hurt so much guage early in life, partly prompted by to think about you hurt urgings from her parents to read litera-because ;;;;:: -­ture and the Bible. I moved so slowly 
Jordan was educated at Barnard and in circles College and the University of Chicago. . seemingly insensible She is presently a professor of Afro-to how you held a towel American studies and Women's Studies as your slender arms are long at the University of California, Berkley. to -~'old around me 
She also has a regular column in The 1' 
Progressive Magazine, is a member of shiveringfrom the bathtub the Board of Directors of Poets and . how you held a children's story Writers, Inc. and is a member of the ·.. close to my almost closing eyelids Center for Constitutional Rights. how you held me 
Jordan has written fifteen books, free including His Own Where, which was as I could ever hope published in 1971. His Own Where was to be the first american novel published in "Black English." The book was chosen as one of the Outstanding Books of the Year and was a finalist for the National Book Award the following year. 
Jordan has written many poems and essays to express her political concerns and opinions. In the 1980s, she had to face obstacles to getting her work pub­lished because of her support for Palestinian rights. 
Jordan has many interests including politics, film, city planning and the the­ater. She sings and has even written a dramatic and political musical called "Band Bang Uber Alles." 
She has been honored with the National Association of Black Journalists Achievement Award: International Reporting for coverage of the Black Condition and a N.E.A. Fellowship. 

---Michael Harperr---­
With his work rooted in the traditions of folklore, history and 
myth, Michael Harper expresses the tensions of a moral idealism 
faced with historical realities. 
Harper began writing in
Song: I Want a Witness 

the late sixties and has con-
Blacks in frame houses sistently published poetry 
call to the helicopters, outside of traditional genres. 
their antlered arms Beginning in 1970 with the 
spinning; jeeps pad publication of De~r John, 
these glass-studded streets; !bear .Coltrane, hts wo~ks 
on this hill are tanks painted have mcluded outstandmg
gold. collections poetry: Images of 
!Kin, Chant of Saints and 
Our children sing Carleton Miscellany, co-edit­
spirituals of Motown, ed with Ralph Ellison. 
idioms these streets suckled Harper has spread his 
on a southern road. knowledge as an educator 
This scene is about power, across the country through 
terror, producing the University of Delaware, 
love and pain and pathology; Harvard, Yale and Reed 
in an army ofwhite dust, College. His work has earned 
blacks here to testify him the title of Poet 
and testify, and testify, Laureate for the State of 
and redeem, and redeem, Rhode Island. 
in black smoke coming, Currently a professor at 
as they wave their arms, Brown University, Harper 
as they wave their tongues. will soon release his newest 
L-~~-------=------lwork, Every Eye Ain't Asleep: An Anthology ofAfrican-American Writers Since 1945. 
-------AlisonLurie------­
Her roots may be local, but her fame is worldwide. 
This is the story of Alison Lurie, born in Chicago and raised in the New York suburb of White Plains. With a mother who was a former magazine editor of the Detroit Free Press, and a father who directed a social welfare agency in New York, it was natural for Lurie to develop an interest in writing. 
By the time of her graduation from Radcliffe in 194 7, Lurie said she was in the "habit" of writing, "as someone else might get into the habit of singing in the shower." 
Lurie's first novel, Love and Friendship, was pub­lished in 1962. Lurie's interest in sociology was seen in The Nowhere City (1965), which featured two East Coast conservatives encountering the free-minded world of Los Angeles. 
This theme was continued in Imaginary Friends (1967), in which two university professors reach startling conlusions while examining a bizarre reli­gious cult know as the "Truth Seekers." 
Lurie took a break from her usual themes to write Real People, published in 1969. The she returned to her fondness for the Academe in the novel, The War Between the Tates. In the story, an academic marriage is strained through the pressures and unrests which flowed through campuses during the late 1960s. 

The War Between the Tates was a huge suc­
WORKScess, winning Lucie very high acclaim from the 

likes of the New York Times Book Review, and 
Love and Friendship 
selling over a million copies. The novel was 
The Nowhere City 
also made into a television feature. 
Imaginary Friends 
Lurie is also reponsible for two works of 
Real People 
nonfiction: V.R. Lang (1975) and the 
The War Between the Tates 
Language of Clothes (1981) as well as the 
Only Children 
children's books The Heavenlu Zoo (1980), 
Foreign Affairs and Clever Gretchen and Other Forgotten The Truth About Lorin Jones 
Folk Tales (1980). 
Don't Tell the Grownups: 
Luries latest novel, The Truth About Lorin 
Subversive Children's Literature 
Jones, is " ... a writer's rediscovery of herself," 
VR Lang: Poems and Plays 
as well as a " ... wry and perceptive look at 
The Language of Clothes
female sexuality, radical feminism, and the New York Art scene." Lurie has won several awards: Yaddo Foundation 


page 14 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD . Friday, February 11, 1994 
A Valentine for Chancellor and Darby O'Gill III 
left old Shep convinced that instincts that would impel him
Chancellor, the golden Jesus could come to a bad end to want to die with his Master. retriever belonging to .Brot~er if spent much time in such an Near the Cross stood the Dennis Meyers, Um~e.rsity Father Robert Griffin evil place. sorrowful Mother, and Shep Sacristan, and Darby 0 Gill III, Once when the children of was next to her, closer even 
the cocker spaniel living in /:!e''e'"'" 'o a '->o,ne(u nod the goylm refused to have any-than the Belove? Disciple.
Stanford Hall, are campus dogs t.:), l/1 .~_ oJ 11 t.:J1 u 1J ..:::/1 thing to do with the Jewish Nickering occaswnally, he dear to many. This article is child whose father was a car-muted the howling that wanted dedicated to them, as campus penter, Jesus, playing by to break out of him from the sweethearts who des~rv? to be Himself, built a bridge out of terror he felt, for the sake of 
honored on St. Valentme s Day. ning a better day for Fido. I explained to the children moonbeams across a swift-Mary as empress of Calvary. 
"As man or boy,; did Jesus Jesus, who taught us to love the that when the Night Visitors flowing stream. When the body was taken ever have a dog? asked the poor, taught His disciples to from the East offered their When the young Gentiles fol-down from the Cross, Shep children perceptively. They make room in their lives for the gifts: gold, frankincense, and lowed Him onto the bridge, they understood that the total paral­realized that the New four-footed beasties. myrrh to the young child lying found the moonbeams were too ysis called death had overtaken Testament didn't exactly put I said to the children: "Have in a manger, Amahl, the lame insubstantial to hold their his dearest Friend and Helper. dogs on the map. In those days, you ever noticed that whenever shepherd boy who accompanied weight; falling into the river, When the body was removed to dogs were regarded as scav-you meet a wonderfully shaggy them, gave the Lad on whom they would have drowned if or the hous~ of the dead: he start­engers who begged scraps from English sheep dog, he is invari-the star shone the dearest thing Shep hadn't saved them. He ed to wmt fo~ so~et~mg else ~o the table. ably named Merlin, after the he owned: a puppy from home went to his everlasting sleep happen, hopmg It might be his 
Dogs licked the sores of court magician of Camelot? which he called Shep, which when he was eighteen. He was own death coming. soon. . Lazarus, the beggar at the g~te. That's because the Adam of was being educated to mind the the Martin Luther King of his The Roman soldiers, guardmg The Old Testament has nothn~g that breed, from which all flock. species who showed by his the tomb, were amazed to see to compare ~it~ .the Homenc English sheep dogs are I said: "Amahl, finding him-noblisse oblige how the under-the glorious animal gr~eving for myths of semi-diVIne creat~res descended, belonged to Merlin self cured of his lameness, left dog deserves his place in the the Jew Who was crucified, and like those horses of Achilles when he was still worshipping his crutch at the manger also. sun they tried in vain to comfort who weep for their hero. fallen as a Druid." The crutch represented the ~ the successor, Shep 11 was Shep. in battle; great Zeus himself According to Bede, that sire pain in his life, which he was with Jesus to the end. He was He was the first to see Jesus, offers them his comfort, or progenitor was entrusted to happy to be relieved of. Giving at Cana in Galilee when the newly-risen from the dead. As because those stout-hearted Merlin's care by Joseph of away the dog was an act of water was made wine; of the with Argos, joy at that mo~ent beasts have never before expe-Arimathea, when he brought pure adoration." wedding meats, he touched not could have been his un~omg, rienced the heartbreak of the Holy Grail to Glastonbury. The children decided that a scrap, because he felt a kin-except J~sus for~ade It. .In death. . . This beautiful animal was Amahl must have been a class-ship with all animals who were reading this scene m Bede, I !fl 
The early Chnstians ~ever famous in the Druid community act to whom canines every-dumb like himself. reminded of that fi~al scene m heard of Argos, the faithful as "Domini canis," a title which where should be grateful for his He walked beside Jesus on Camelot when Kmg Arthur mastiff who waited so patiently means "the Lord's dog," signify-making Jesus aware of the ful-the storm-tossed waters of the knights the page boy Thomas of for Ulysses to return fr?m t~e ing that his original Master was fillment that comes from own-Galilee. In the street ministry, Warwick, so that as Sir Thomas Trojan War. Finally seemg h~s "God who became man in ing a dog. he led Jesus to the people who of Warwick, he can tell the master after twenty years, his Palestine, and lives today in Shep II became Merlin in were most distressed. He was wondrous story ... faithful heart literally exploded bread and wine." Learning the England, after witnessing the present in the Upper Room The Lord of love my Shepherd with uncontainable joy. life history of this animal, the death and resurrection of when Jesus blessed bread and is, and the hound at His heels 
"Jesus had two dogs," I Druids were, without knowing Jesus. His father before him cups of wine at the memorial was His under-study, The pas­answered, "One as a bor, the it, on the road to evangeliza-had gone to Egypt with the Holy meal. When Jesus was fearful toral counterpart of this pict'-!re other as a man. Those ammals, tion. Family. He waited for three in the garden of Gethsemane, can be seen on a thousand hill­of course, were a father-and-According to the guardians of days at the Temple Gate when Shep was with Him. sides of the green and pleasant son act." I told them that the myth at the Albert and Jesus as a young Jew talked to Before His arrest, Jesus had land called England, whenever according to so.me seldo.m-r~ad Victoria museum in South the doctors of the Law about Shep delivered to His mother's a boy like Amah] tends she.ep pages in Bede s ecclesiastical Kensington, London, Merlin's the destiny of the Jews as the care. Learning from her the with the dog who understudies history, the emergence of dogs stud was Domini canis II, Chosen People; while the day lessons of patient suffering, him at his side. Here's a happy as man's best friend was. almost descended from the prototype became frantic with worry over. Shep would be safe from harm thought I would like to offer a Gospel event. who made his debut at the smell of the blood from the which might come from the Chancellor and Darby O'Gill on 
The pets of J~sus were alm?st Bethlehem. sacrificed animals. This ordeal enemies of Jesus, and from the St. Valentine's Day.
like the mormng stars begm-

February is African American History Month. 
Our store is celebrating the culture and heritage 
of African Americans by offering a diverse 
assortment of books in an array of subjects­
history, literature, politics, the arts and more . 
• 

The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" Open Monday -Saturday 25% off selected titles 
9 a.m. -5 p.m. 

Friday, February 11, 1994 The Observer • WINTER OLYMPICS page 15 
Olympic torch passes into Lillehammer 
Fidjestol unable to jump start flame 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
LILLEHAMMER, Norway 
Ole Gunnar Fidjestol had hoped to end his ski-jumping career with the leap of his life: flying through the air clutch­ing the Olympic flame at the opening ceremony of the Winter Games. 
But Fidjestol tumbled head-first into the snow during a practice jump Thursday, suffering a mild concussion that forced him to turn over the torch to another Norwegian ski jumper. 
"He's very unhappy that he won't be able to jump," said Dr. Arild Tandberg, medical director of Lillehammer County Hospital. 
"It was a real honor for him. He's been one of Norway's best ski jumpers. I feel real sorry for him -especially since it happened only two days before the opening ceremony." 
Fidjestol, a 32-year-old former world champion in ski flying who won a bronze medal in team jumping at the 1988 Olympics, seemed upbeat when he talked with reporters from his hospital bed about 90 minutes after his fall. 
"It was good this didn't happen on Saturda " he ed surrounded b his wife, Ragnhild, and three children ­the oldest, 13-year-old Lars, a ski jumper himself in a country where Nordic skiing is the national sport. 
"This is not my worst fall, but this one got the most focus," said Fidjestol, who later received a visit from Juan An­tonio Samaranch, president of the International Olympic Committee. 
Fidjestol will be replaced in Saturday's ceremony by another veteran jumper, Stein Gruben. 
The torch leap is supposed to be the crowning spectacle to the opening, per­haps eclipsing the Spanish archer who fired an arrow to ignite the flame at the 1992 Summer Games in Barcelona. 
"The show must go on," said Asbjorn Langmyr, a spokesman for the Lilleham­mer Olympic Organizing Committee. 
"We are confident that Stein Gruben is capable of taking over, capable of making this jump." 
But the accident put a damper of Lillehammer's Olympic planning. "It's like a Hitchcock drama for us," Langmyr said. 
"We will very much be excited about the opening (being completed) after what happened today. But we are very confident... it will not ha en a ain." 
Blair planning to try for a third medal 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 
HAMAR, Norway 

A gold medal in the 500 meters, a gold medal in the 1,000. Bonnie Blair couldn't ask for anything more. 
But she just might. 
Blair, who can become the most gold­laden U.S. female Olympian ever if she wins those two golds, apparently plans to try for a third medal in the 1,500. 
Blair rarely enters the 1,500 when she skates the two sprints, but in her fourth and final Games, she may be tempted. 
She already has four medals -three golds, one bronze -from the 1992 and 1988 Games. Three more would give her seven overall and move her into some super-exclusive Olympic company. 
The U.S. record for Winter Games medals is held by Eric Heiden, who won five with his speedskating sweep in 1980. Swimmer Shirley Babashoff won eight -two gold, six silver -in 1972 and 1976, and is the only American female Olympian with more than six. 
Only four women have won as many as seven Winter Olympic medals, led by Russia's Raisa Smetanina with 10 in cross country. 
"I keep challenging myself, keep look­ing for new challenges, but stats and numbers, they're for sports writers to keep," Blair said. "Honestly, I don't think about that stuff. Maybe someday I will, but right now, I just worry about what I have to do to get ready." 
Right now, she's getting ready for three races, not just the two she'd been expected to skate. 
There was speculation at the U.S. tri­als in Milwaukee last month that Blair might skip the 1,500 to concentrate on her two specialties. 
But Blair's coach, Nick Thometz, said she is skating so powerfully -and, of course, so fast -that the 1,500 is worth considering. 
--· 
"We're leaning towards the 1,500 right now," he said Thursday. "I don't think it would be a problem if she skates. Realistically, she could win a bronze but beyond that would be tough." 
In the Calgary Olympics in 1988, Blair took gold in the 500, bronze in the 1,000 and was fourth in the 1,500. Two years ago, she shut herself down on the final leg of a rainy, slushy 1,500 in Albertville to conserve her strength for the 1,000 and fmished a distant 21st. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds
Classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 

USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks ND ave & Howard ' 233-2342110-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun 
CANCUN 4 best Spr Brk ever! Fly from Chi. or Indy. Seats going fast! x232-7109 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST -Has anyone seen my neck­lace under all this snow? Gold chain with 3 gold letters: 
Has anyone seen my necklace somewhere under all this snow? Gold chain with three gold letters A­R-1 , has great sentimental value. Will give reward and be eternally grateful to finder. Please call Ari @ 259-0219 w/ any info. 
Lost: gold chain with two lockets Thurs. afternoon-213-near b-ball courts in ACC next to ice rink. Great personal value. If found, please call Sanmit at 1684 
Blue sweatshirt with gold Irish letter­ing lost either outside or in the basement of LaFortune. Call X1B82 
WANTED 

....SPRING BREAK '94**** Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and your trip is FREEl TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. 
Need ride to St. Louis any week­endl!ll Will pay for gas!! Call Mindy 284-5417 
Need one extra JPW ticket for all events DESPERATELYIIIIIIII Will pay $$$$$$. Call Kelly at x3506 
Desperate! Need ride to Daytona Beach for Spring Break. Price is negotiable. Please call Roger at 35081 
Violets are blue Roses are hot If you want a fun time Call us at Knott Wanted 3 willing men to attend the Knott SYR Feb 26th if interested call x0722 
SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+ in salary & benefits. Ski/Snowboard instructors. lift operators. wait staff, chalet staff + other positions (includ­ing summer). Over 15,000 open­ings. For more information call: (206)634-0469 ext. V5584 AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY· MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP\ CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 
Help! 4 desperate girls need ride to Long Island or NYC lor Spring Break. Will pay gas, tolls, etc. Callx4BB1 
SITTER NEEDED My Juniper Rd home. 2 yr old & infant, 4/hr. SAT 1­5, some Fri or SAT NITES. Prefer early ED Maj but will consider all. Must have car & refs. 273-0582 
Brunos needs waitresses. Must be 
21 and able to work weekends. 
Please call 288-3320 lor interview. 
NEEDED: 

SPRING BREAK RIDE to NY for 2 
NYC, Newburgh, Mahwah, Poughkeepsie pref. Will help $. Please call Brian or Jason x1130 
Needed: A ride to either Columbus. Bowling Green, or Cincinnati on Feb. 25 or 26. Call Carey at x291 0. 
FOR RENT 
HOME BASED 8 &8 ALLIANCE HOMES available for Feb. 18 & 19, Parents weekend. Call271-0989. Excellant accomadations. 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, 
KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF 
CAMPUS. 272-0615 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­APPROVED HOMES-JPW. GRAD., etc. •219-291-7153• 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
SECURITY SYSTEM 
ALL APPLIANCES 
1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 
232 2595 

PARTY TIME '94-95 Big 6 bedrm. Safe area. Free maid sevice. Beach V-ball & 8.8. courts. Furnished. Washer & dryer. 273-0482 or 234-3831. 
TICKETS 
I have an extra ticket to Garth! I 
Call Sean at x3102 and give best 
offer! 

Need to trade two Garth Brooks 
tickets for Sun. 13 to Sat. 12. 
Call x2126/x3219 Begging you to trade your Sat. Garth tix for my Sun. tix Patrice 232-5030 
Plane Ticket to Boston for Spring Break -REALLY CHEAP. call Alex at x1679 
2 tickets to the Sun. Garth concert lor sale! Call with your best offer at x3610 
Unused Amtrak tix one-way to L.A.San Diego March 4 $50 273­4868 
2 TICKETS FOR GARTH BROOKS! SUNDAY SHOW CALL WITH BEST OFFER LISA X1283 
GARTH BROOKS TIX FOR SALE Sun. Feb. 13 show Call Dan or John @ x2073 
1-W, INDY/ORUNAPLES, $175 219654722212196548392 
PERSONAL 
ADOPTION: Loving. financially secure couple longs for a newborn to join our family. Please call Nancy and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. 
SPRING BREAK! Student Holidays, the nation's leader in Spring Break vacations offering the ultimate trip to CANCUN, MEXICO! The #1 Student Spring Break Destination from $399 Package includes hotel. flight and parties! Organize a small group and travel for FREEl CALL RICH! 1-800-360-TRIP 
valentines day special university hairstylist $2.00 off any service monday feb. 14th 9am-9pm 631-5144 
SEND SOME LOVE! 
U.P.S. a Valentine to your Sweetheart thru THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LaFortune Lower Level 
M-F 10-5 Sat.11-4 
BEWARE! One day I was illegally parking my car in some parking lot I wasn't sup­posed to be in, figuring, there's so many cars here how could ND police ever find my one tiny car? 
Then I remembered, NO Security people have no life. My mistake. 
Rise and sh1ne and give God your glory, glory 
Rise and shine and give God your glory. glory 
Rise and shine and give God (clap)your glory, glory 
Children of the Lord .... 
To the most humble small group on the Notre Dame Encounter #30 
I love each of you dearly-you are such special people .... 
Love. Anne 

Bands -free S-track recording 
(1 song) -must call by Sat. 
call Tim, 273~6142 ................ 
THE TOP 20 FROM NDE #30: 
20.Do you have to, do you have to, do you have to let it linger? 19.This is better than the Linebacker! 
18. Fire. Heh. Fire. 
17. Where's the Georgetown lep­rechaun? 
16. God is in the ..... silence. 
15. Power genuflecting. Nuff said. 14.llove me, I love me! 13.... f---I 
12. Now, I'm no spiritual guru. 
11. Is that a roll of dimes in your pocket, or are you just happy to see me? 
10. I broke parietals ... with Cathy Bridge. 
9. BROCCOLI 

B. I wouldn't smile this much if I were drunk. 
7. B,O,B,O,B,O,B ... 
6. What do you get when you put the U in NDE? 
5. Who WAS that blue jogger? 
4. Heh, heh. What's a Liska? 
3. All together now: "Hays is the cultural and economic Mecca of Western Kansas. 
2. Shut up and pedal. 
1. PRAY NAKED. 

(do you have to, do you have to, do you have to let it linger?) 
Check out Amy's Inside Column ... 
it's AWESOMEIII 

SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786­8373 
Spring Break Bahamas Party 
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes 
Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free 
Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! 
1-800-678-6386 
Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 

4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help each other. Mad/legal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 
1-800-864-8385. 

••••••••sEAT THE RUSH*••••••• VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching, and if you want to write a classified to that special someone, you can type your ad now. Your message will appear in the special Valentine's Observer on Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd floor of Lafortune. 
Mik&-Give this week's meet your 
best shot to get another PR or no 
more PDAs..J/K Love, Jenny 
So did you get the gist of the puz­
zle/ Senior Bar Ads?? 

If you want GREAT specials figure them out and uncover the best kept secret in town IIIII 
Deals! Deals! Deals! Deals! 
Need ride from Washington DC 
back to ND Monday after Easter. 
Will pay. Colleen x4704 

*&. & *&*&*&·&*& *& *&*&*&*&. & • & *& 
PW CARNATION SALE: 

Carnationas will be sold in both din­ing halls during lunch and dinner this week for $1. All proceeds bene­fit the Tara Deutsch Scholarship Fund. Flowers will be delivered on Sunday. Feb. 13. 
Tell that special someone how 
much you care: 
Red= I love you. 
Pink= t like you. 

White= Let's get acquainted. 
Yellow= We're friends. 
and.... 
Green= ??????? 

*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&* 
Schlage...how's the scar?? 

Good job on the Cake and take it 
easy on that Milk! I !II 
College of Business AdministratiOn MUGS!!I 
Only $10 and on sale Feb 7·11 from 11 am to 1 pm in the Hayes-Healy Lobby 
Sponsored by the NO Marketing Club 
!I! VALENTINES DAY Ill Monday, February 14 
Come on in to IRISH GARDENS (basement of LaFortune) for all of your Valentine's Day needs. We have a plethora of flowers, bal­loons, cards, and candy. We also deliver on-campus and to surround­ing apt. complexes. .. V-day deliveries and pick-up orders must be placed by 5:00 Fri. Feb. 11. I!! VALENTINE'S DAY Ill 
VALENTINE'S VALENTINE'S VALENTINE'S 
Suzy Zoo Cards, KC Knox 
Kids Photo Cards, Seinleld and Farside! Chocolate Lips, filled hearts and cuddly bears. kitties and puppies! Luv culls with /keys and Love Matches! Your heart's desire! 
The Country Harvester LaFortune Lower Level M-F 10-5 Sat. 11-4 
In a hurry... don't worry. FAXITI 
at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center NEW LOWER PRICES! 
Hey, NDE #301 
... Shut up and pedallll ••• 
CANDY FLIP •• CLUB 23 •• SATURDAY FEB. 12TH 
JUST APPROVED BY THE DEANI 5-course Minors in Classics: Greek, Latin, Classical Literature (in translation), Classical Civilization. Talk to us before the chaos of pre-registration. Contact 
L. Banas (1-7548) or D. Sheerin {1­
6004) 
MARDI GRASIIII ... The Houae of Blues I 


The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 11, 1994 
,. 
Terroristn, protests concern IOC 
·­
....IRS SFIII6 BIEtl fill( 
SPRING 
BREAK
COMPLETE FIVE & SEVEN NIGHT TRIPS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH 


LAS VECAS VAIL/BEAVER CREEK ORLANDO/DISNEY WORLD MUSTANG !SLAND HILTON HEAD ISLAND BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
"I'EIII'EitSC.*DEI'EIIO_,OIIDESTIUTIOit/lllfAKDATts/lEIIHttOfSTAf. 
FOR AIIOITD'W. l'fiiiMAllON & IIESERVmJNS 
II•BOO•SUNCHASEI 
~~ 
By LARRY McSHANE 
Associated Press 

LILLEHAMMER, Norway There's more to protect here than Nancy Kerrigan. 
Middle East terrorism and anti-whaling protests are the main security concerns at the Lillehammer Games, and one­third of Norway's police force was assigned to maintain the status quo in this tranquil lake town. 
Bomb-sniffing dogs and hostage negotiators -both new concepts to the 23,000 res­idents -joined athletes and tourists gathering here for Sat­urday's opening ceremonies. 
"All the world can feel calm and feel that their athletes are protected," said Arne Huuse, commander of the Olympic po­lice force. 
"We have planned security for these Games down to the last detail for five years, and we are ready. It will all come off safely." 
Organizers spent $50 million on security, though their ap­proach is more low-key than at past Olympics. 
"Service with a smile" is their motto -a slogan more likely for an interstate gas sta­tion than an international secu­rity force. 
Norwegian police don't carry guns, a change from Games at Barcelona and Sarajevo, where armed soldiers were a common sight. 
Two years ago in Albertville, the security force was triple the size of the Lillehammer contin­gent. 
But authorities here are con­fident of handling anything that arises -even the possibility of Middle East terrorists reacting to Norway's role in last year's peace agreement between 
To Raymond Darling: 
All girls are crazy for you in the world! You're the playboy of the century. Happy Birthday! Keep your pace down! 
Love, Chise, Grace, Shu-li, Jamie, Shuji, Warwon, John 
Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
"We constantly looked at that, and at the international signals that we get," Roger Andresen, spokesman for the Olympic police force, said Thursday.' 
'We have taken into consid­eration that someone from there could try to do something here." 
Andresen would not discuss any specifics. But Lillehammer Olympic Organizing Committee head Gerhard Heiberg said four months ago he had been told opponents of the accord might "want to teach Norway a les­son." 
Norway was host for months of secret talks leading up the historic Sept. 13 agreement. Heiberg promised at the time to take whatever steps were need­ed to "prevent another Munich" -the 1972 massacre of 11 Israeli athletes in the Olympic Village. 
Fresher than that tragic im­age is the picture of Kerrigan getting bashed with a club Jan. 6 in Detroit. 
Don't expect such incidents in Lillehammer, Andresen said: "There should be no big sur­prises.". 
Organizers said 2,770 police officers -about a third of Nor­way's total-were assigned to Games duty. Included are an anti-terrorist unit, hostage ne­gotiators and bomb squads. 
Five helicopters, 400 cars and 50 police dogs -eight of them bomb-sniffing specialists 
from Northern Ireland  - are  
also on the case.  
On the high-tech front,  sur­ 

veillance cameras will photo­graph cars coming into the region, while a helicopter will provide live shots via both day and night cameras. 
That's not all. All food brought into the Olympic ath­letes' village is inspected. Mail sent to YIPs is run through X­ray scanners. Credentials are checked electronically for au­thenticity. 
One athlete will receive spe­cial protection -and no, it's not Kerrigan or nemesis Tonya Harding. Prince Albert of Monaco, competing in the Olympic bobsled, will whip down the run at Hunderfossen under the watchful eyes of plainclothes police. 
There's another concern unique to these Games: Olympic computer hacking. 

Hotel Rooms sti II avaiIable 
for the 1994 
Junior Parents Weekend! 
(219)234-2000 
SOUTH BEND~ffiOff. 
123 North St. Joseph Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601 
r ----------(coupon)----------,
,.J 'fl• CAMPUS SHOPPES 
I '~' · ~ 1837 So. Bend Ave. I 
1 Weekly Special ,. ~ 1
soUTH BEND 
I ~iaJ:
:usoc off Sweetheart Pies!" Y~.!.~ 1 
1 Offer Expires 2/18/94. Limit one coupon per customer. I L __ ~~ !,a!.!,.d_:!;_h~'!l. .2J~W'!2~o,!!~ .2,r_;~~'!;... __ .J 
GREAT VALENTINES SPECIALS! 

"' .,. -y 1' '"f" y T T •· 
/lOSES 
'''"'1111:·'' $l7.50C/C CAHNATIONS starting :rL $1 Z.9'i C:/C FHESH CUr 
AHRAN(JEM/:NIS 
$17SO&Up BALLOON lJOKAYS 
$9.99 & Up

2226 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTII DEND, IN 46615 
M•;....., /<>< I.I.lowry· ~ 17 50 
(plou """""'oM< 'lf>l«•l

(219) 287~2955 ~~~·~~~~~ 
r-----------------, r-----------------,
( :t\:->11 ,\: l '1\IUtY Sl'll '1·\L I
: .~ Cnl;ully ~Ju< I .. 1,.,,., : U( ).\/.\ $\75(1 ,/u~,·n :
I EHQ\ I 
I I FUJ:'E :
: BALUX)N BOKAY : 
I I ~l,t..,i\I.Mn I 
MYL\1? /3ALU X>N : 
I .MIAhl'\ltu!t..rcntJ<:.«LI\tLI.n·J I 
: $12.99C/C : OM> I
1 Of c•rrtf'tU tkln'"Y only 1 
2ll(,Ma.JIA...-.a1.tA..,,l!... Er.rim: U!l~· I
"E~~1 !!!·.!!"~J!!;... __rix,~t!.~!!!!~., 
-----------------~ 
CALL FOR OTHER "SWEET" IDEAS TO PLEASE YOUR VALENTINE 
Open 'ril MIDNIGHT on the 14rh ... Order by 10 pm 

~----.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-~ -~------=-1 
Friday, February 11, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Security welcomes Kerrigan to Norway 
By JIM LITKE Associated Press 
OSLO, Norway 

Nancy Kerrigan arrived in 
Norway today, headed for the 
Winter Games she almost 
missed after a thug smashed 
her right leg with a club at the 
U.S. Figure Skating Champi­onships. 
Kerrigan, who slept most of 
the way on the flight, was met 
at the airport by U.S. Olympic 
Committee security and was 
hurried into a car for Lille­
hammer without commenting. 
Eight hours after she landed, 
Kerrigan checked into the 
accreditation center in Hamar, 
Norway, to pick up her ath­
lete's credential. About 30 
reporters, photographers and 
TV camera crewmembers met 
her, but she again had no com­
ment. 
The 24-year-old skater, who left Boston on Wednesday, has 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
Chad Clark, will soon become the nation's number one when the next poll comes out. Clark has won the last two major col­lege tournaments. 
"They definitely have the 
~~-~HEY JUNIORS1 
~ ~ 
Stll~~o apply for the best 
manager and bartender applications 
now 
available 

1\.YETTE S 
OWNHO 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" 
"Where Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURI1Y SYSTEMS & SECURI1Y GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet OurFriendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
NOW TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
1994-95 ] ob on campus 

\_ Studel]t
0

(~ <'fct. . 
~".."""-'-' I}?. . e_:,·· 
~ It\

0 

STUDENT MANAGER DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 25 BARTENDER DEADLINE: MARCH r8 
a news conference scheduled 
for Saturday, a few hours be­
fore the opening ceremonies. 
Kerrigan's arrival came on 
the same day lawyers for Tonya 
Harding were to go into court 
seeking to block a USOC hear­
ing that could kick Harding off 
the U.S. Olympic team. 
Harding has been implicated 
by her ex-husband in the attack 
on Kerrigan last month. 
Asked as she was leaving 
Boston if she was prepared to 
skate with Harding, Kerrigan 
said: ''I'm prepared for the 
competition." 
And about the Olympic train­
ing schedule, which would re­
quire her to practice side-by­
side with Harding, Kerrigan 
told reporters: ''I'm more un­
comfortable standing here talk­
ing to all of you guys." 
Unless Harding is prevented 
from competing, she and Ker­
rigan will practice together. 
International Skating Union 
guns to win it all this year," commented Coach Bayliss, "they will be one of the three teams who will win the NCAA tourney." 
With players such as Ernesto Ponci, Tre Philips, David Traper and 6'9" Ian Williams who serves the ball 120 mph, who could argue? 
officials refused a request to 
have her and Harding practice 
separately. 
The USOC announced Tues­
day it will convene a special 
hearing of its Games Adminis­
trative Board on Feb. 15 to re­
view evidence on Harding's 
possible involvement in the 
Kerrigan attack. 
Harding's lawyers said 
Wednesday they would seek a 
court order blocking that hear­
ing on various grounds, includ­
ing that it could jeopardize her 
in the criminal investigation 
into the Kerrigan attack. Hard­
ing is also seeking $20 million 
in damages from the USOC. 
As she left Boston on 
Wednesday, passers-by ap­
plauded Kerrigan as she 
walked through the airport. 
''I'm so excited, I'm near 
tears," said Judy Wadleigh, 54, 
of Reading. "She just needs a 
lot of support now, and at least 
folks here can give her that." 
The one thing that Texas might want to keep in mind is that a lot teams come into snowy South Bend the better, more talented team on paper, the favorite to win. 
What those teams lack, however, is what computers can't calculate: heart and desire. 
page 17 

--' 
Photo courtesy of Notre DameSports lnfonnation Senior Christy Faustmann and the 18th ranked women's tennis team hope to continue their streak over 15th ranked Kansas. 
Rivalry 
continued from page 24 
ranking for them. 
"Ranking-wise, we're very comparable," said Faustmann. "If we beat them, it will be a big boast for us." 
The match will definitely be a challenge for the Irish. Kansas' No. 1 doubles team of Rebecca Jensen and Nora Koves, ranked lOth nationally, 
0 •• • 
/j 
' .. --~. 

CUSTOM.. GENERAL & MAJOR CLEANING 
SPECIAUZING IN: 
FINE HOMES • OFFlCES APARTMENTS e COl\Oft;RCI.U. 
INSURED • BONDED 
REFERENCES AVAILABLE 
FREE ESTIMATES 
"CARPET CLEA!'iL~G A \"AILABLE" 
PHONE: (219)23~941 

advanced to the final round of this weekend's prestigious Rolex National Indoors Tournament. Jensen is also ranked 17th in singles. 
The 4-0 Irish are excited about getting the chance to test their skills against some higher-ranked opponents. 
"We've been solid in the past two matches," said Faustman. 
"We'll start playing tougher as the season goes on and we start facing tougher and high­er-ranked teams." 
Are you Spring Breaking near Daytona? 

O.C. Boston 
Transit Co. DAYfONA 

SHL'TTLE SER\'ICE 
From Orlando airport to Daytona Beach airport 
Fare 
$2300 One Way 10% Discount for Students 

Guests are guaranteed courteous, comfortable, and safe service. 
For Reservations call 
1-800-633-4807 



----------------------~­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 11, 1994 
,..__ 
Toronto and the NBA come to terms on Ontario's sports lottery 
By JEFFREY ULBRICH 
Associated Press 

TORONTO 
There will be NBA basket­ball in Toronto, after all. But you won't be able to bet on it in Ontario's sports lottery. 
The league and the provin­cial government announced an agreement Thursday that clears the way for a Toronto team to begin play in the 1995­96 season. 
The NBA threatened to void the Toronto franchise if league games were not removed from the Pro-Line lottery. 
But the issue was settled when the NBA and the Toronto team agreed to contribute more than $10 million to vari­ous programs and charities in Ontario. 
John Bitove Jr., who heads the Toronto franchise group, praised Ontario Premier Bob Rae for getting the deal done. 
"The premier brought the ball up the court very well with only seconds left in the game and sank a 3-pointer," Bitove said. 
NBA commissioner David Stern said the agreement showed the league is willing to pay for its anti-gambling stance. 
"It's a principle," he said. "And we are prepared to pay to support the principle." 
The NBA awarded a fran­chise to Toronto in November on condition that league games be removed from Ontario's sports lottery. 
Rae said he wanted an NBA franchise in Toronto but couldn't afford to give up the $6 million in revenue from bet­ting on basketball. 
In the end, the NBA and the Toronto team put up the cash and the province agreed to re­move pro basketball from its lottery. 
Rae said the deal was worth about $10 million over three years and $12-$13 million over the next five years. 
"We feel we came out way ahead," he said. 
The agreement was reached just a few days before an NBA­imposed deadline for resolving the issue. 
The deal doesn't mean there will be no gambling on basket­ball in Ontario. It only means there will be no legal gambling on basketball in the province. 
Newspapers routinely carry Las Vegas odds on NBA games and other sports and it's un­likely action with the corner bookie is goillg to be slowed by the agreement. 
Under the three-way ar­rangement between the NBA, the Toronto team and the On­tario government: 
-The Toronto team, as yet unnamed, and the NBA will create a foundation to support youth programs and other charitable causes. 
The team will contribute $5 million to the foundation over the first three years and work to raise $1 million a year thereafter. 
-The NBA will provide $2 million in television time and advertising space over four years to promote tourism in Ontario and the World Basket­ball Championships in Toronto this summer. 
-The NBA will contribute $1.5 million to Ontario hospital research programs. 
-The NBA will hold its 1995 college draft in Toronto, worth millions to local hotels and restaurants. 
-The NBA and the team will cooperate with the province in television cam­paigns against drug abuse, child abuse and domestic vio­lence, worth about $500,000. 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
Coach Gene Keady is cam­paigning for Purdue's Glenn Robinson to be player of the year. 
Writing to "Dear Friends of College Basketball," Keady said the 6-foot-8 junior has taken a leadership role for the No. 10 Boilermakers while contending for the national scoring leader­ship. 
"While he may appear to be shy, private and withdrawn to those who observe him from a distance, Glenn is unmistakably the leader of our team," Keady wrote. 
Coaches usually leave the campaigning for national and conference honors to their sports information offices. 
But Keady has taken over the screening of all interview requests for his superstar and this week sent a letter to some 750 members of the U.S. Basketball Writers Association urging their consideration of Robinson. 
''I've never written a letter like this, but I've never had a player like Glenn," wrote Keady, Purdue coach since 1980. 
Robinson, a 6-foot-8 junior forward, was tied for the top spot among NCAA Division I players with a 28.8 average in this week's statistics. 
He's shooting .475, averages 
10.5 rebounds per game, leads the Boilermakers with 35 steals and is second on the team with 22 blocked shots. 
Glenn Robinson for college player of the year 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments .at Very Affordable Rates" \ 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE D~E CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERAL UNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY Now TAKING APPliCATIONS FOR 


'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FoR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
In less than two full seasons, Robinson has moved into the Top 10 in eight of 13 statistical categories kept by Purdue. 
Robinson's performance this season has helped produced a 19-3 record for Purdue, one game behind Big Ten leader Michigan and tied for second place with defending champion Indiana. 
Keady points out in his letter that "virtually everyone is say­ing that Glenn is the best player outside of the NBA and most predict he will be the first play­er selected in the NBA draft whenever he chooses to make himself available." 
However, he said Robinson also has outstanding qualities off the court, including in the 

2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 

MRS. DOUBTFIRE 
1:30,4:15,7:15, 10:00 

He knew what to do with a million bucks. 
~f5NE,-·.. 

BlankCheck §J 
12:15, 2:30, 4:45, 7:00, 9:15 

PHilAOllPHIA 
TOM HANKS~ 
1:30, 4:45, 7:15, 10:00 

classroom. Robinson surprised some people by his decision to stay in school rather than move to the NBA after last season. 
"Academically, Glenn is doing very well. His year off the court due to Proposition 48 was good for him. It helped him realize the importance of acad­emics," Keady said. 
"Glenn is bright and intelli­gent. ... is carrying a B-minus average while majoring in com­munications." 
Robinson, meanwhile, prefers to let his play to his talking. 
"He is very modest and prefers his teammates to get more of the publicity," Keady said. 
"Competitively, Glenn is the fiercest I've ever been around. 
l\1~-Girl all over again! 

mygirl2 
2:45, 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 

~­
RUMPY 010 MtN 
JACK LEMMON WALTER MATTHAU 1:15, 4:15, 8:45, 9:00 ~ 
The shirt that tells the TRUTH! 
BACK 
Phone Orders Accepted! 
310·791-4492 

NOTRE DAME THE REAL 1993 NATIONAL FOOTBALL CHAMPIONS 
T-Shlrts  Sweatshirts  
$15.9i.  $25.9.9.  
shipping  

VISA·M.C. CHECK 
ami

Winning systems, Inc. 3805 PCH, Suite 101 handling Torrance, CA 90505 
colors 
100% Heavyweight cotton T-Shlrts & Sweatshirts 

and under_add $4.50 30 Ol-$50 __add $5.50 
\-$100 __add $6.50 100.01-$200 __
.. add $7.50 
ttl and ove.r-add 


-
---~-----~-----~--------. 
Friday, February 11, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 1! 
Malone hopes for repeat MVP All-Star game 
By BILL BARNARD 
Associated Press 
Karl Malone, who shared All-Star MVP honors with Utah teammate John Stockton last year, ranks second in career scoring in NBA All-Star history with a 21.0 average, trailing only Michael Jordan's 22.1. 
Last year was only the sec­ond time in All-Star history that co-MVPs were awarded and the first time that teammates were so honored. 
The only other time co-MVPs were named was in 1959 when Elgin Baylor the of Minneapolis Lakers and Bob Pettit of the St. Louis Hawks shared the honor in the West's 124-108 victory. 
Malone and Stockton are back as reserves on the Western Conference team for Sunday's All-Star game at Minneapolis. 
GET WELL WITH SPREWELL: Latrell Sprewell is the first player since 1983 who was selected for the All­Star game who was not on the All-Star ballot. 
Detroit's Bill Laimbeer was not among 10 centers on the Eastern Conference ballot in 1983. 
Sprewell, a second-year guard for Golden State, at 23 is the youngest player to repre­sent the Warriors in the All­Star game since 1976 when Jamal Wilkes was 22. 
Since 1975, when fan voting started, only seven other All­Stars were not on the fan bal­lot. Besides Sprewell and Laimbeer, they were Alvan Adams of Phoenix in 1976, Moses Malone of Houston in 1978, Dennis Johnson of Seattle in 1979, Bill Cartwright and Micheal Ray Richardson of New York and Portland's Kermit Washington in 1980 and Kelly Tripucka of Detroit in 1982. 
NOT MANY NETS: Trying to remember the last time a New Jersey Nets player started an All-Star game? 
Don't bother, because it didn't happen until Kenny Anderson and Derrick Coleman were voted as Eastern Conference starters for Sunday's game. The last time anyone from the Nets made the All-Star game was 1986 when Buck Williams was chosen as a reserve. 
NOT MANY KINGS: Mitch Richmond will be the first member of the Sacramento Kings to play in the All-Star game since the franchise moved to California in 1985. 
Richmond, voted in as a Western Conference starter, was picked as a reserve last year, but did not play because of injury. 
Two Sacramento players 
NBA slam dunk contest loses the spot light 
By CHRIS SHERIDAN 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS The NBA dunk contest has been slammed to second-string. 
Don't tune in to the end of "All-Star Saturday" expecting to see the finals of the slam dunk contest. By that time, the dunkers will be done and the guys who can't jump will be shooting 3s. 
In a move for which the NBA provided no explanation, the slam dunk contest was moved from last to next-to-last on Sat­urday night. It will follow the rookie game and precede the 3­point shooting contest. 
Don McGuire, executive pro­ducer of TNT Sports, said it was a tacit admission that the dunk contest isn't considered the most exciting event anymore. 
"They asked us about it, and we said we didn't want to touch the format," McGuire said. "The sense (at the NBA) was that there's more drama in the 3-point shooting contest. The dunk contest flows nicely on television, but it's been a little flat in the arena because it was too long." 
Rod Thorn, the NBA's vice president of operations, refused to specify the thought process behind the dunk demotion. 
"It's just something we de­cided to do," he said, straining not to be negative. 
The dunk contests in recent years haven't lived up to the excitement level of the earlier Michael Jordan vs. Dominique Wilkins leapfests, and players have had to resort to gimmicks -Dee Brown pumping up his shoes, Cedric Ceballos wearing a blindfold-for an extra edge. 
"The contest doesn't have the flair it had in the past. All the great dunks have been done," said Boston's Brown, champion in 1991. 
"It's lost some of its appeal," said Shawn Kemp of the Seattle SuperSonics, a contestant in each of his five NBA seasons. "There's only so many dunks you can do." 
In an effort to speed up the event, the rules have been drastically changed this year. 
The rounds have been cut from three to two, and instead of having every dunk judged separately as in the past, this year's contestants will have 90 seconds in the first round to do as many dunks as they choose before being graded on the whole performance. 
Three of the six players will make the finals -it had been two -and each dunk will be judged separately. The player with the highest-rated dunk will win the contest, even if he misses every other attempt. 
In past contests, the dunk scores were totaled up and missed dunks were especially costly. In fact, a botched dunk cost Larry Johnson the contest two years ago. 

The contestants this year are defending champion Harold Miner of Miami, Kemp, James Robinson of Portland, Isaiah Rider of Minnesota, Antonio Davis of Indiana and Robert Pack of Denver. 
Doug Christie of the Los An­geles Lakers pulled out Tues­day with a sprained ankle. About six other players de­clined invitations, Thorn said. 
"The league has called me a few times to try and talk me into being in the dunk contest, but I had to tell them no. It's more important that I get my rest," Stacey Aummon of the Atlanta Hawks said. "I could probably win it right now if I wanted to do it. But after a while, it gets boring. You dunk so many times, you get tired of it." 
"If you're in the dunk con­test, people expect you to dunk all the time," said past cham­pion Dominique Wilkins. "You're supposed to be the high-flying, windmilling dunk guy. But if you concentrate on that, you tend to overlook other parts of your game. It detracts from your overall game if all you're worried about is dunk­ing." 
Fir~t prize is $20,000, to be paid by Gatorade, the event sponsor. 
and only the second time in NBA history, no player from the Boston Celtics or Minneapolis­Los Angeles Lakers was select­ed for the All-Star game. 
LogisticsCoordinators 
To coordinate operations and ensure timely and efficient movement of air freight shipments. We seek a college degree (or active pursuit of same), ex­cellent communication skills, the ability to train and motivate personnel, and demonstrated ability to lift up to 60 lbs. 
Air FreightAgents/Transportation Cledcs 
You may qualify with proven office and administrative skills including 10­key by touch, accurate 45wpm typing, a customer-focused approach, and proficiency with MicroSoft Windows. Export/import documentation experi­ence desired. 
Please send your resume with salary requirements to our regional office: ROADWAY GLOBAL AIR, Attn: PT Employment-South Bend, 9BDB W. Bryn Mawr Ave., Rosemont, IL6DD1 B. No third parties or phone calls, please. EOE, m/f/d/v. 

were in the slam-dunk contest on All-Star weekend, with Terry Tyler appearing in 1986 and Kenny Smith fmishing sec­ond in 1990. Jim Les of the Kings finished second in the 1992 3-point shooting contest. 
NO CELTICS-LAKERS: For the second year in a row 

-
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 11, 1994 
--:"f...... 
Perfect record on the line for Irish fencers 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 

You have just traveled to New York and Boston and defeated defending NCAA champs Columbia to maintain your unblemished record. What are you going to do next? 
For the Notre Dame fencing team, the answer lies in Philadelphia. There they will face 1993 NCAA runner-up Penn State and 1993 women's champion Temple along with William& Mary and Penn. 
"The stakes are high this weekend with a possible unde­feated season and a high seed in the NCAA's," saidmen's Mike DeCicco 
One main challenge comes against Penn State's women's foil squad. The Nittany Lions boast one of the top women's squads in the country. However, the Irish carry· an equally impressive team with an amazing overall record of 295-58 on the season. 
"Penn State will be tough," said DeCicco. "I think we'll be ready for the challenge though." 
The Irish have been ready for challenges all year, building momentum for the NCAA re­gionals in March. At regionals, the Irish hope to qualify each weapon in order to have a shot at winning the championship. 
"Penn State came real close to winning it without one weapon last year," said ar­morer Greg Ripple. "But it makes things really tough." 
As for the men's team, the intensity level and total team effort needs to continue. With a 29-5 record, freshman Jeremy Siek has led the men's foil team along with veterans Stan Brunner and Conor Power. 
Sabre has provided a pleas­ant suprise this season, as cap­tain Chris Hajnik, Bernard Baez, and freshman Bill Lester have powered the team to a 121-59 record. 
Rounding out the weapons with epee, captain Greg Woz­niak, senior Rian Girard, and junior Rakesh Patel are three o the main reasons the men are 20-0 this season. 
"If we keep this up in the second half of the season, we'll be right where we want to be for the NCAA's," said DeCicco. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 


·_· ..N~~EqUeatf'~-~;Clq~--·· :1.\. m'ee~gtoi•U~'~l'S 
• ~-•• • ••• • 

in.· hes· 
!BaSk~.,'a . .·.. 
·~~:rn-~~t~~~ 
g F~IJ, a•. ca s meetfu{t .f9l" Laero~se: will_be at 5 pm'With b()tbq~baU league. meetm.gaat 6pm. j\lsp any int~rested fjasebl,'ll wnpires ~hopl4 show liP ~or -~ 01ee~ip;g; lit6;3() PD1·-~ 
me~tings are on Feb. 24 in JACC Auditorhun:·· ·· · · ····· ····· ··· 

ome m and Browse Open daily 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Sundays 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 Noon 
Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Serving South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger for over 60 years 
__5 

with every 
tanning package 
purchase 
TANNING! 

FOR A LIMITED TIME (WITH THIS AD) Expires 2/25/94 
Men's volleyball sparkles in hard-fought victory 
By G.R. NELSON Sports Writer 

The undefeated men's volley­ball team continued its sparkling play with a hard­fought 15-12, 15-12, 15-8 vic­tory over Tri State University last night at the Thunderpit. 
Notre Dame (6-0) went expecting a battle, which is exactly what they received. "Everyone knew this would be tough," said coach Jennifer Slosar, "And that is why every­one played so great." 
The Irish came out and played as a whole team. Six players recorded kills in the opening game, led by middle hitters Brian Ceponis and Leo Casas, with five and four, re­spectively. 
"[Chris] Fry gave me some good sets and I got my vertical jump going," said Casas. "The rest was elementary." 
It was not a coincidence that the middle hitters paced the 
Mexico  $199  
Costa Rica  $175  
Guatemala  $165  
Panama City  $165  
Rio de Janeiro  $515  

Fares are each WifY based on a roundtrip pur­chase from Chicago. Taxes not included and restrictions apply. Call for other worldwide destinations. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels masazine 
scoring early. The Irish plan was to attack the middle, and they executed it to perfection. 
"I had to play a little more of a finesse game that usual," added captain Ceponis, "But the result was the same. We attacked the middle." 
With the middle occupied, the outside lanes were open in games two and three. Outside hitter Matt Strottman took ad­vantage and accumulated a game high 14 kills. Senior Tom Kovats also chipped in with nine kills from the outside. 
Nevertheless, victory in game two did not come easy. There were many incredible rallies with diving saves being made all around. More times than not, it was John Vandemore making the plays for the Irish. 
The Irish won game three in much easier fashion, thanks primarily to Ceponis, freshman Josh Clement, and a timely time-out from Slosar. With Tri State leading 6-5 and rallying, Slosar huddled her men and of­fered them some rather simple advice. 
"I knew we were tired and needed a break," commented the coach. "And then I said fin­ish it in three." Thanks to three key kills by Clement and five more from Ceponis, the Irish did just that. 
"Notre Dame has really im­proved from earlier in the year," said Tri State coach Dave Saenz. "This is a really tough place to play." 
Leprechaun and 
lBWCBCB!JDCBffilflCB!J 
Tryouts 
1994-95 Cheerleader Squad Tryouts will be held in March. 
Students interested 
should attend 

the informational 
meeting February 
21, 1994 at 5:00 
p.m. at the JACC in the Pit. 
Please bring proofofinsurance. 
in the Hesburgh Library 
at pm, reception to follow 
featured in the 1994 festival: 
•
Michael Harper (Sun. 2/13) 

•June 
Jordan (Mon. 2/14) 

•
Alison Lurie* (Tues. 2/15) 

•Charles 
Johnson (Wed. 2/16) 

•Joy 
Harjo (Thurs. 2/17) 


*Frank Deford has been rescheduled for 4/13/94 
page 21 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February II, I994 

Hockey 
continued from page 24 
"We've put ourselves in a po­sition to win all but six games," said Irish coach Ric Schafer. "Also, we've definitely gotten our name out there (in the col­lege hockey world)." 
The long-term goal of this hockey team is to do all they can in order to bring Notre Dame to the top of the CCHA, and subsequently, college hock­ey. 
Despite their less-than-stellar record, the Irish icers have done plenty in the way of reaching this goal. 
Most importantly, coach Schafer's squad has played the best college hockey has to offer. The squad's schedule is one of, if not the toughest slate of games that any team in the school must face. 
Notre Dame has skated with the top-ranked Michigan Wolverines four times. Michi­gan is considered to be one of the best teams in recent years. 
If UM is not the top program in the hockey-crazed upper midwest, then surely Lake Su­perior St. is. The Irish have also faced off against the Lakers on four occasions. 
Oh, did I forget to mention the three games with 5th ranked Michigan St. In addition, Notre Dame has faced four other teams that were ranked at the time of their matchup with the Irish, including 14th ranked Western Michigan and 18th ranked Miami. In total, the Irish have played 17 of their 29 games against ranked competi­tion, 10 against top-ten clubs. 
What is even more impressive is the level of Notre Dame's play. The Irish have beaten four of the seven and tied another (MSU) thus far. Included among the victories is the season's high point, a thrilling overtime victory at Lake St., one of the toughest places to play. 
This victory opened some eyes of college hockey follow­ers, as it proved that Notre Dame is a threat to beat any­one and is on its way to the top of the conference. 
Name recognition is another step the team has taken. 
"We're now getting invited to all the top tournaments," said sophomore Jamie Morshead, who, although lost for the re­mainder of this season, is an 
Don't Forget that Special Someone. 15 Specials starting at $20.00! 
FREE DELIVERY! 
Balloon in a Box ............... $25.00 Gift box filled with balloons, a teddy bear and candy 
Dozen Long·Stem Red Roses ................ $40.00 

your flower alternative 
East Jefferson 232..0302 
important player for the future. "We're packing opponents' rinks when were on the road." 
The two tournaments that ex­tended invites to the Irish were the Great Alaskan Face-Off and the Great Lakes Invitational in Detroit. In addition, the Irish played in front of an NCAA record 20,427 fans at the Palace of Auburn Hills. This evening's game against West­ern Michigan is college hock­ey's game of the week and will be televised nationally. 
"People are starting to take notice of us," said leading scor­er Jamie Ling. 
This exposure, along with playing in the nation's toughest league, should only help coach Schafer in the recruiting pro­cess. With the team looking for more speed and experience, it is beneficial to have your name known to hockey people. 
Another point that can be emphasized is the probability of quick ice time. If the past two classes are any indication, a new-comer has a good chance of seeing significant skating. It is these two classes, the fresh­men and sophomores who are the foundation of Notre Dame hockey. 
Obviously, this bodes well for the future, as many have gained invaluable experience this season. They've adjusted to a high caliber of play and learned from it. 
"Every second of every game we're going to cherish for the future," said coach Schafer. 
The Irish still have plenty of hockey to look forward to this season, though, and the team is going to do all they can to make it count. 
"This weekend we want to get on a roll, said Ling. " It is conceivable that we can win seven in row and still get home-ice (advantage in the first-round of the playoffs). Even if we don't, we're definite-
The main aga~ the Irish ....,.~u., . ·. Ja,n ~~~~rs Kevin ,.w..,v·•u• 
· SqptfM.cDonald. The two di~J,ns finished in under p-tinutes at the Meyo. 
· ..Michigan has five or six 
•standing athletes of their . iber, ·and I expect those tw() 
or triple up." · fav()rite, tu••oaArnt 

ly going to make some noise in rounds of the CCHA tourney)," the playoffs." said Schafer. 
The Irish still have one very There is no better time to re­make able goal for the season. ally get this program moving "Our goal is to get to Joe toward that goal than this 
Louis (the site of the later weekend. 


~~~~~ 
See our Beautiful Roses 
• Puppy Love Bouquet 
• Hershey's Kisses Bouquet
Delivery to 

288-7551
Campus 
Located on Corner of 

We'll Be Open Sunday for Your 
Ironwood & Edison 

Convenience! 
The MishaWclka BrtWlg Company 
"Northern Indiana's Only Microbrewery" 
3703 North Main Street (Just South of Edison on Main Street) 
********** Cornish Pasty I Pub Pie I Fish 'N Chips Scotch Eggs I Shepherd's Pie Our Famous "Pubburrito" 
& 
Traditional American Fare ********** 
Sunday,Thursday: Study Booths Available 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK FOR LUNCH & DINNER 
Phone: 256..9993 
-,--------­

! 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 11, 1994 
J 
Miller Bowen's buzzer-beater beats Butler 
continued from page 24 
'shower wasn't just for show. But Miller is changing that definition. 

"I don't really have any goals as far as playing time," said the former St. Joseph's star. "I just want to play as hard as I can and see what happens." 
Notre Dame got a bargain, that's what happened. It usu­ally costs about $20,000 a year to get that kind of production. But Miller is paying to play. 

He isn't exactly an All­American, but there are schol­arship athletes who haven't 
,made as big an impact. 

· "He's really a pretty good basketball player," MacLeod said, justifying his decision to give a walk-on such extended playing time. 
Miller is taking it all in stride, trying not to be awed by his surroundings. 
Duke's Cameron Indoor Sta­dium can be intimidating even to the most seasoned veteran. 
And when he looks up and sees Ed O'Bannon in his face, he feels a long way from that high school across the street. 1 
"I try not to worry about that 'and just focus on the game," Miller said. "I have confidence that I can play on this level. I don't think of myself as a walk­
: on. I just think of myself as a part of the team." 
An important part. When Monty Williams crashed to the 'floor and injured his wrist in ·the Manhattan game, MacLeod pointed to Miller to shoot the ,superstar's free throws. ; He hadn't played much , but he stepped to the line cold and buried both shots. 
"That said a lot about Pete Miller," MacLeod said. 
! A year ago, Miller expected to come to Notre Dame, but he didn't expect to play basket­ball. Maybe he'd play for 
· Zahm, but not for MacLeod. 

"I always wanted to come to Notre Dame," Miller said. "Basketball is a bonus." 
A bonus for Pete Miller. A bargain for Notre Dame. 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek Letitia Bowen sunk a last second shot to lead the women's basketball team past the Butler Lady Bulldogs. 
e~&~  93~93aPww  
~  ~~  
q;:c  ~ ~~  (""t-:5  •  $15.00 +Del.  

·L.~'~" ~s~ 
\. Doz. carnations with 2 mylar balloons 
.A r ~
T
'"'0 ;~ ~ 

• $20.00 + Del.
~ep & p\1l~\ $' 5·~J~
143 Dixieway South (31 N) South Bend, IN 46637 ~ <Llwul.a..J 9 -1; ~u.n~-10 _1;
273-2212 
0Ti.anJ.a.~ 9 -6 
(3 blocks from Notre Dame) 


By DYLAN BARMMER Sports W rirer 

INDIANAPOLIS 
It was fitting that the ball landed in Letitia Bowen's hands. 
The junior forward had been instrumental in Notre Dame's second half comeback. 
Now, with less than one sec­ond left on the clock and the game tied at 80, Bowen could put an exclamation point on the team's dramatic run. 
Bowen grabbed the ball that ricocheted off the glass after leaving Beth Morgan's hands, and sealed Notre Dame's fourth straight victory when her lay-up drained the net as time expired. 
Bowen's buzzer beater sealed an 82-80 Notre Dame victory over Butler. 
The win was key to the Irish, who held on to first place in the MCC, where they now own a record of 6-1. The Irish are now 15-5 overall, while Butler fell to 11-9, 4-3 in MCC play. 
Whatever head coach Muffet McGraw said to her reeling team, trailing 48-33 at halftime, it worked. The Irish came out a more aggressive team, and, go­ing on a 12-0 run to tie the game for the first time at 62-62. 
Another key point in the Irish comeback occurred when Bulldog guard Michelle Warwick, who had 13 of her 17 points in the first half, fouled out of the game with 4:31 left to play. The loss of Warwick hurt the Bulldogs, and clutch play by Tootie Jones, who finished with 11 rebounds and 10 points, and Beth Morgan, who scored 18, enabled the Irish to cling to a game that the tough Butler team tried desperately to sal­vage. 
The final minute of the game proved heart stopping. Tootie Jones hit a key shot for an 80­78 Irish lead with 49 seconds left on the clock. 
Butler's Angela Cotton hit two free throws to tie the game at 80, setting the stage for Bowen's heroics. 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
Saturday, Febraury 12 Notre Dame Hockey 
Garth Brooks 

vs. Western Michigan 
Ticket 
7:00pm 

Giveaway! JACC Fieldhouse 
Sunday, February 13 #18 Notre Dame Women's Tennis vs. William and Mary 9:00am Eck Pavilion #14 Notre Dame Men's Tennis vs. #8 Texas 1:00pm Eck Pavilion 
r--· 


~~j 
Make your next move to Hickory VIllage and ·>: discover affordablllty, convenience nnd comfort. ]l 
We'ro just minutes from Unkersity Park Mc.JI, thl:) tell road, Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties, program thatincludos team sports, rrco c.':lrobics dasses, and mud1 more. 
Efficiencies from $270 1w8edrooms from $285 2w8odrooms fro:'TI $345 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Elalcony or Patio 
f.J.r Conditioning • Close To St.opping 
24-hour Emergency f-tlaintenance Servico Planned Activities with Free A::~robics 
Slop by today and we'll show you how affordable apartment living can be. 

I 
;~~~~~ I 
DlLLA(3ERa ,~, 
Mon.·F•I. 9-6, ~ I
·:t1<>4&8"".12-4 ,__J 
.~,.·, 


Friday, February 11, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY lARSON
SPELUNKER 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 



31 Items on hand
13 Blue-pencil 32Western
notation 34 Plot measure
lilf::-T.±::-1 21 Fort on the Oregon Trail 37 Makes as good as new
22 Craggy hill 25 French clerics 38 Plain People 
39 Knee jerk, e.g. 5656 (75¢ each minute).
26 With 27-Down, 
ground level 44 Mystery 
51 Years in Toledo 52 Gather 53 Knight's glove 54 Member of 
CALVIN AND HOBBES Test: 
l. "What im~rtanl ~en\:. \.ook. place on December 1!0. 1773? 



I do Not BELiE:.VE iN LiNEa.R tiME. T~£RE i'S No ?CI'St CIN~ f1.1tURE: q LL iS ONE, QNq E)(iStENCE iN -\+-\£ t£t-~PoRql '5"£NSE 
i"> iLLUSoRY. 11-li'.i QUE'StioN, 

filA"'"\ tlo•l't.E, "Ror-t>EI!oN(, THE 
ALL 6Aot<E t> "PRof'\ oN EN <-f. 0NL'-\ 
lJ,A.\E.N ll'l'S'TtTU,.IO,..AL. -p.z.08LEfi"'S
'RECEf'IT 'S,,uDEf'lf Go\IE.R.t>~il\£1'oir 
t>,,..o fRuSrRAToo_N'> I;JEr<T
ELE.('t\ONS, t\Avl. F~uND 7ARALL€LS 
l)r<Ar<SIIJERED-£~TR£moSM
10 "TilE I<1H. oF "Ross tt,::·~ {)f< 
SEEN A'> A S,...uno.... ·· .
~u~S'""' OL-rll.ANAnoNAL.I'S'T 
Vu\t>omtR Z><•R•NOVSK'1 ... 
I 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Cherub 59 "March 33 Coos' partner Madness" org. 
1 Man has seven 
34 Maintain 60 Energy source 
5 Small groove 
35Word &1 N.R.A. symbol 
10 Trims the tree 
associated with 

&2 Venetian strip 
14 Barbarian 
light bulbs 

63 Flattop, of sorts 
15 Cut-swath 
3&STOCK ... 

64 Hitler's architect 
1&"-Heron 40 That, in Sonora Monday" (1942 es Gossips are all
41 Part of HOMES 

hit) this
42Reagan 17 Mercury or 
AttorneySaturn 
General 

DOWN
1& Treacherous 43 Coffeecake person topping 1 "It's--!" 19 Computer 4&Mug (wow!) memory 
·47 Turner or Cole 2 Foot problem 20LOCK ... 48 Kiddie talk? 3 Luncheon 23 Praise loudly 49BARREL ... follower 24 Giant's third 57 Pealed· 4Work 
word discussion
58 Double-check 25 Fling the check 5 British taste &Tween 7 Torn and tide, ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE e.g. a The same, to Caesar 9Gaseous 10 A nut for 
cooking
11 Novel set on Tahiti 12 President Fujimori's land 
Mardi Gras Party! Saturday, Feb. 12 LaFortune Ballroom 
Freel 
9pm-1am
Fortunes, Food, and FUN! 
oPLE VoTED FoP. Su<.~ "tl~snc. Or<u1 WHEN No~AL ft.ovE. D lr-..E.ffE~n\Je. · 
27 See 26-Down 28Use 29 Pool, in poetry 30 Movie shots 



_,.•. 
Justa fraction ofwhat we spend on · 
sports can help keep society mshape. 
It's so ~asy to help your ,-fi,-~ hours of. volunteer time 
community, when you think · per week the standard of 
about it. giving in America. 
1vlillion,ofpL'Dpkhavc G" v, Get involved with the helped make n,·e per-:ent IVerIVe. causes you care about of their incomes and lt'lrat_w1, ~·1 'e.:~.-~Jut'hwc\ur.Jiw and gh·e fi\'e. 
INDIVIDUAL GIVING/VOLUNTEERING CAMPAIGN NEWSPAPER AD NO.IGV-89-1493-2 COL. 
OF INTEREST 

45 Mideast inits. 
4& It usually has a garten in back 
48 Dipper 

Feb. 13-17 7:30pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium Sunday: Michael Harper 
Reception to follow. 

IIT1JDIINr VNJON lOAD 

SPORTS 
--...-­

By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
You wouldn't look twice at Pete Miller if you passed him on the street. 
But he's got people doing double takes when he's on the basketball court. 
The freshman walk-on from South Bend has become a hero for the Not Fast Enough and the Not Strong Enough. 
He is the patron saint of Limited Physical Ability. 
There are 180 pounds hidden somewhere on that skeletal 6-foot­4 frame. And his face turns bright red after a few trips up and down the court. He looks as comfort­able on the court as Andre Agassi in a barber shop. 
Yet he stood toe-to-toe with UCLA's Shon Tarver and Ed 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek Pete Miller's gutty defense and solid outside shooting have made him an important role player for the Irish this season. 
Notre Dame hockey keeps an eye on the future 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 

The short-term goals at the begin­ning of the year were simple. Finish in at least sixth place in the CCHA, beat every team at least once, and win at least 15 games. 
With four weeks remaining in the regular season, it is doubtful that the Notre Dame hockey team will achieve their goals. 
Has the season been a disap­pointment for the 8-17-4 Irish? Surely, Has the season been a failure for the program? Hardly. 
see HOCKEY I page 21 
Friday, February 11, 1994 
Irish get a bargain in Miller 
O'Bannon-men born to run and jump-and proved that desire means as much as dunks. Watch a loose ball long enough and you'll see Miller wrapped around it. 
"He has tremendous heart," said Irish coach John MacLeod, who hasn'.t hesitated to insert Miller in crucial situations. 
He has responded with scrappy defense and even some sparkling shooting to become one of Notre Dame's most popular players. 
Walk-ons hllve long been cult figures at Notre Dame. Everybody loved the frustrated former high school stars toiling in anonymity for the good of the team. 
Maybe, when the team had a big lead, they got a few flings in front of an audience so the post-game shower wasn't just for show. 
see MILLER I page 22 
rJ ~ 

This is another one of those "should-win" games for the 8-14 Irish. But that has been the team's downfall this season. After wins against No. 4 UCLA and Georgia last weekend, Notre Dame ran out of gas against Butler. Fatigue will be a factor again tonight as the Irish play their fourth game in six days, but sleepwalking should be enough against the Flying Dutchmen. 
.. 
'· 

Men's tennis awaits No. 4 Texas 
By PHIL LANGER face a rejuvenated Notre Dame Sports Writer squad will be Ohio State. "They are a sound team," 
The University of Notre Dame stated Notre Dame head coach men's tennis team will hope to Bob Bayliss, "they don't make a duplicate last weekend's bas­lot of mistakes. We will have ketball upset by beating No. 4 our hands full. " ranked Texas this Sunday at The highlight of the weekend, 
1:00 after facing a competitive however, will be Sunday when Ohio State squad on Friday at Texas leaves the sunny south to 
3:15 at the Eck Pavallion. play under the lights of the Eck. 
With Freshman Mike Mathers Texas comes to Notre Dame playing in his first match since with five of the six players who undergoing back surgery, the beat Stanford last year in the Irish pose a real threat to any quarterfinals of the NCAA tour­and every collegiate tennis nament before losing to even­team, especially when playing tual champion USC. on. the sacred soil of Notre Their No. 1 singles player, Dame. 
see TENNIS I pagel7The first of the two teams to 

Women's Hoops 
Letitia Bowen's last sec­ond shot lifts the Irish past Butler. 
see page 22 

Inside SPORTS Track 

Emotions reach a peak when Irish and Jayhawks meet 
By KATE CRISHAM 
SporuWrirer 

Tonight's match againsfthe University of Kansas promises to be an intense and emotional one for the 18th-ranked wom­en's tennis team. 
The Irish have developed a rivalry with the 15th·ranked Jayhawks in recent years, having narrowly defeated them 5-4 in their past two meetings. Head coach Jay Louderback believes that this year's match will prove just as competitive. 
"Kansas is a big match," said Louderback. "They are competitive and talented. 
"It will be a very emotional match. We're definitely look­ing forward to meeting them." 
"Since we've beaten them the past two years, there will be a revenge factor for them," admitted senior captain Chrif!ty Faustmann. "But I think that will turn into just as big a motivation for us." 
The Irish are aware that a big win against the Jayhawks could translate into a highl:lr 
see RIVALRY I page17 
Joe Piane's track teams head to Michigan for 

Gene Keady is lobbying important weekend 
for Glenn Robinson to be meets. 
named Player of the Year. see page 21 
see page 18 
College Basketball 










