

Friday, March 25, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 112 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

March madness not just for teams 
By DAVID TYLER Assistant News Editor 
Ah, Spring! The season of birth. The sea­son of renewal. The season of March Madness. 
March Madness, otherwise known as the NCAA Division 1 Basketball Championship, resides at the height of any sports nut's early spring calendar. It does more than ·ust fill the void between the college foot­ball bowl games and the opening day of baseball. Over the years the tournament has provided observers with some of the most memorable moments in sports. 
Notre Dame students are no stranger to the fever as hundreds dutifully open up their minds and their wallets to partake in an equally revered pastime-the NCAA pool. 
Dozens of highly organized pools prolif­erate the campus, often characterized by computerized charts, complicated scoring systems, and in depth analyses. Some include cash prizes. Some are just "for fun." 
But whether the stakes are hundreds of dollars or just a pizza between roommates, those involved have a myriad of different reasons for signing up. 
Tom Hoban, a junior from Grace Hall runs what he claims is one of the largest polls on campus, including almost three hundred people from every quad, he said. 
Hoban uses a computer to help keep track of results as the tournament advances. After three years of running the pool and watching its exponential growth, he sa)CS he has come to understand what motivates a person to enter. 
"Folks love the competition. They love to be able to follow a team through the tour­nament and say 'Hey, I picked them,' or 'I told you so,"' he said. 
But Morrissey junior Miguel Gonzalo sees a slightly more subtle reason for playing. 
"People are always trying to prove they know something. Its lots of fun to try and beat the so called experts," he said. 
Gonzalo has bet in pools before, but this is his first year to try his hand at running one. He says that the management side of a pool is no easy task. 
"Sometimes I feel like I'm grading papers," he said. "But there is satisfying and posts them outside his room to keep scientist to have a shot at winning," he about making things run smoothly." his forty hopeful friends informed. For said. Gonzalo's poll has roughly 35 participants. Klau, the beauty of a tournament pool lies But for all the students trying to out­
Kevin Klau, a Flanner sophomore, has in its unpredictability, he said. smart Dick Vitale and Billy Packer, pool 
organized a pool as well. This being his "Every year, especially this one, is so 
second pool at NO, he keeps tabs on results wide open. You don't have to be a rocket see MADNESS I page 4 
Visitation weekend kicks off 
By KATIE MURPHY 
Associate News Editor 
As a part of its ongoing effort to increase minority student enrollment at Notre Dame, the University annually brings a group of high school seniors to campus for a spring visitation. This weekend nearly 100 minority students will take part in the spring visitation events. 
• see MINORITY, page 4 
"We are putting the 
University on display," said 
Melvin Tardy, assistant direc­
tor of undergraduate admis­
sions and coordinator of the 
weekend. "We want (the stu­
dents) to get a sense of the 
opportunities here and the re­
sources available to them." 
Pasquerilla East junior Norma Hernandez and grad­uate student Chandra Johnson have been planning the 1994 ·spring visitation events with Tardy since last semester. Approximately 150 students were invited to come for the weekend, which is entirely 
funded by the University. 
Typically, about sixty per­
cent of the visiting students 
decide to attend Notre Dame, 
according to Tardy. Although 
early decision letters were sent 
out in the winter, most stu­
dents will not find out if they 
are accepted until April15. 
"The students who are com­
ing we consider to be our best 
prospects," said Tardy. "You 
really can't get a sense of a 
university from a brochure." 
Since they will be members 
of the minority student popu­
lation at the University, these 
prospective students often 
see WEEKEND I page 4 


Simmons: Sexual behavior changed 
By VIVIAN GEMBARA 
News Writer 
Sexual radicalism of the early twentieth century changed the ideology of sexual behavior for women, according to Christina Simmons, profes­sor of history at the University of Windsor. 
In the last of a series of lec­tures sponsored by the Intellec­tual Life Committee of the Gen­der Studies Department, Sim­mon's lecture addressed the prism of feminist history. 
Through a critiquing process of authors from the early 1900's, Simmons examined the broadening in sexual thought and independence for women. By examining literature from a feminist perspective, it is clear that women became increas­ingly aware of their sexuality and broke from the Victorian repression, according to Simmons. 
Simmons also mentioned the evolving face tlf sexual radical­ism beginning with social hy­giene in the first decade and slowly opening up to issues of birth control, divorce and sup­port means for the marriage institution. 
She discussed the works of Henry May, Christopher Lash and Crystal Eastman in order to provide a variety of perspec­tives on the "shifting power relations in heterosexuality." The authors were noted to por­tray women differently, some allowing for inner thoughts and ideals, while others repeatedly degraded women characters. Scrutinizing these works differ­ently from other historians al­lowed for Simmons to define the growth of women. 
Simmons also observed the changed desires of men and women in relation to each other. 
"Women were grasping for something new in themselves, while men were searching for something they feared they may have lost," she said. 
The sexual rebellion of the 1900's enabled women to de­nounce the reclusiveness of their sexuality. This led to a discovery of greater indepen­dence and a break from the boundaries of society's code of proper sexual morality, ob­served Simmons. 
Narratives by Langston Hughes and others were also mentioned in the lecture in re­lation to sexual radicalism of African-Americans. Simmons recalled finding it difficult to lo­cate information when she wanted African-American thoughts and perspectives from the early twentieth century. 
"There is a deep separate­ness of the races....there is a complexity and ambiguity to different groups," said Sim­mons. "I don't think that there is a sufficient narrative for African-American women out there yet." 

INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 



These are the days to remember 
Things will never be like that again, or at least that's what they tell me. Being the youngest of the nine children in my family, I often receive a great deal of seemingly important advice from my older brothers and sisters. Over spring break, I had the Patti Carson 

chance to visit with sever­al of my brothers and sis-Assistant Saint Mary's ters, whose words of wis-Editor dom were surprisingly similar. 
"Things will never be like they were in col­lege. Those were the days. I'd give anything to be back there again." 
That's what they all told me. Our visits turned into long spells of their reminiscing of college days past. 
My sister Mary remembered her first SYR. "And when I think back on it, my date bore a strange resemblance to Bart Simpson." 
Even my father chimed in with a story o stolen cafeteria utensils. 
From what they tell me, these are the days. And I'm sure that they are, but on a chilly March morning, I wonder when I'm going to miss the dining hall food. When will I miss the one who sings in the shower loud enough for our whole floor to hear? When will I miss tak­ing the utmost care in making sure that neither my feet nor any other portion of my body touch­es the shower walls or floor? I wonder when I'll miss pulling all-nighters for those Biology exams that count for a third of my grade? 
When will I miss the laundry bag from hell or living in a room that still smells like my Uncle Jerry's nursing home, even three days after we find the soggy bowl of Frosted Mini-Wheats that had been pushed under the bed? 
I probably will miss, however, watching Seinfeld with people who truly appreciate it. And never again will I have a support group when I shrink a shirt in the dryer. I'll miss stu­dent airline rates and watching Vivarin take its toll on people during finals. 
I'll probably even miss those moments of des­peration on Friday and Saturday nights where one of my roommates searches the dumpster o each floor in our dorm for any trace of Papa John's Pizza. I'll especially miss those nights when she fmds some and comes back to report: SCORE! Three unbitten pieces and one is still warm!" 
Most likely I'll even miss coming back to my room to read messages on our memo board like: "Went to infirmary ... rash is contagious. Do not enter" or "Skipped 10:10 a.m. Chemistry. Please tiptoe." 
I'll miss going to study for an hour at the library, then leaving for a two hour study break at Studebagels. I'll miss the St. Patrick's Day stories. 
I'll miss the fact that our music collection encompasses the CD's of any given girl on our floor? (Where else can you listen to anything from "Hey Jealousy" to "Mr. Roboto")? 
I'll even miss making ransom notes for my Gumby doll, which was stolen by several large Zahm men for their own fiendish purposes. 
By the end of the break, I was ready to get back to school. And I began to understand why my brothers and sisters repeatedly told me to savor this time and to make it mine, because things will never be like this again. So whoop it up-these are the days to remeber. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production Laura Ferguson Kira Hutchinson Vivian Gembara Bridgette Farrell 
Sports Accent Tim Sherman Bevin Kovalik Bryan Connolly Graphics Viewpoint Brendan Regan Carolyn Wilkens Business Lab Tech Michael Martin Eric Ruethling David Clairmont 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Witness to Crash: 'Like Indiana Jones and Temple of Doom' 
POPE AIR FORCE BASE, N.C. 
of the lucky ones. He was able to protect himself from the flaming hulk of a fighter jet skidding toward him and hun­dreds of other Army troops. Barely. "I made about three steps and realized I wasn't going to outrun it," Taylor said Thursday. "So I started rolling in the sand. When I hit the ground I didn't think I was 
going to get up again." Many ot his comrades did not. At least 20 soldiers died and 85 others were injured when an F-16 collided in the air with a C-130 Hercules transport trying to land on the same runway at the same time Wednesday. The C-130's five-member crew landed safely and the F-

Sales allowed in owl habitat 
SEATTLE 

A judge gave the go-ahead Thursday for logging on about 2,000 acres of northern spotted owl habitat, a move eagerly sought by the Clinton administration and accept­ed by many environmentalists. U.S. District Judge William 
L. Dwyer allowed 24 federal timber sales to proceed. Sales are agreed to before logging begins. The ruling could be the first step toward ending a timber sale logjam in the Pacific Northwest. Sales covering more than 58,000 acres are still on hold. At the urging of 12 environmental groups, Dwyer blocked the sales in 1991 after finding that the spotted owl and other animals are endangered by log­ging in old-growth forests in the region. At the time, Dwyer said he would not consider allowing the logging until the government developed a 10-year plan to meet environmental requirements and concerns about the owl and other animals. The latest deadline to submit that plan is April 14. The environmental groups agreed in October not to oppose limited logging if wildlife protec­tions were assured. 
Student working as prostitute 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 

A 23-year-old college student arrested at a motel told police she was working her way through school as a pros­titute.Tracy Mehm, a theater arts major at Buffalo State College, said several of her friends at college also were prostitutes, police said Thursday. Mehm told police she had worked for an escort company called Adam & Eve Entertainment since September and made at least $200 a night.She was arrested March 16 by an .officer posing as a john. She was charged with prostitution, a misdemeanor punishable by up to three months in jail. Buffalo police Detective Martin Harrington said he doesn't know exactly how many other students worked for the company. Police raided a boarded-up storefront Tuesday where Adam & Eve operated, They said they found three people working the phones and records allegedly linked to prostitution. While officers were there, Harrington said, they fielded about 30 calls from people asking what services were available and what the prices were. A grand jury will decide whether to charge Adam & Eve's owners with pro­moting prostitution, Harrington said. 
16's two pilots ejected to safety. But their jet crashed in flames and skidded across the runway at 180 mph, spewing metal debris that punctured a C-141 transport plane's fuel tanks, setting it ablaze. All six crew members aboard the C-141 escaped injury. 
The death toll was expect­ed to rise even higher, said Dr. William Chapman at 
AP Womack Army Hospital. 

Ninety percent of the 58 peo­ple hospitalized Thursday had severe burns, and up to 12 also had broken bones requiring either pins or amputa­tions.More than 500 soldiers, most from Fort Bragg, an army post adjacent to Pope, were in a staging area near the C-141 that was hit by the skidding jet. 
Queen Opens New Jewel House 
LONDON 

Queen Elizabeth II opened the new $15 million crown jewel exhibit at the Tower of London on Thursday and gazed at the crown and the orb and scepter used for her coronation 41 years ago. "It brought back a lot of memories for her," said Simon Thurley, curator of Historic Royal Palaces. The queen, dressed in a deep purple coat 


and matching hat, watched a film of her coronation and paused in front of the plush coronation robes, the sparkling orb and scepter and the Imperial State Crown. "She said the whole of the coronation was like a play. It had all been well rehearsed in advance and when it came to it she knew exactly what she was doing," Thurley said. The new exhibit, equipped with a slow-moving walkway to push visitors through at peak times, will accommodate 
20,000 visitors each day. 
'Tunnel Rats' Blamed in Crime Wave 
NOGALES, Ariz. 

Citizens of Nogales call them "the tunnel rats" ­Mexican youngsters as young as 6 or 7 who cross the bor­der through sewage-laden tunnels and emerge to beg and steal. Up to 100 homeless teen-agers and younger chil­dren sneak into the United States through the web of drainage tunnels and ditches. that run between Nogales, Ariz., and Nogales, Mexico. Some even live in dry spots in the tunnels. Politicians are so fed up they've declared a health and safety emergency in hopes of getting state money, and want to put up metal grates across the tun­nels. Police arrest five to 10 each day on suspicion of burglary, robbery or assault, Officer Robert Casteneda said. The children are turned over to Border Patrol offi­cers, who return them to Mexico. "Five to 10 minutes later, they're back," Casteneda said. Some of the young­sters live in the 1930s-vintage drainage system, authori­ties said. And more children have gone underground since the Border Patrol closed holes in the border fence and increased patrols in recent weeks. 

NATIONAL Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, March 25. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure H L  EJ  ESIITIJ  0  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T·STORMS FLURRIES  
VIa Assoeial9d Press  
Atlanta  69  91  Los Angeles  
Baltimore  79  51  Miami  
Boston  49  40  Minneapolis  
Chicago  44  36  New Orleans  
Dallas  74  61  New York  

~ ~ ,..-/\ ~ § ¥ L..J.c.........1 SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  
62 53 Philadelphia 74 45 85 74 Phoenix 77 51 36 24 San Francisco 59 41 84 71 St. Louis 40 37 68 46 Seattle 48 43  

--.----~ ___.., ---._-----------~-~-.--~---------~-~-~-----­
Friday, March 25, 1994 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Romero remembered 

for accomplishments 
By RICK BORST 
News Writer 
On the fourteenth anniver­sary of Archbishop Oscar Romero's death, we can look to his life and diaries to be in­spired by his work and charac­ter, according to professor Robert McAfee Brown. 
Romero was a human rights advocate in El Salvador opposed to the sale of arms by the U.S. to the Salvadoran mili­tary. 
"Most of us are not of the stuff that martyrs are made," said Brown. 
Romero was a person who rejoiced in the fact that the church was suffering along side the people. Brown believes Romero felt that "a martyred priest is a testimony to the church"-a sign that it is involving itself fully with the plight of the people. 
Brown also spoke about some central themes he discovered in Romero's diary. The first con­cerned the importance of out­side help. 
"I doubt it would have oc­curred to Romero that he could do it alone," said Brown. 
Romero took every opportu­nity to ask for support through the media. He began speaking only to his church through his homilies, but soon was speak­ing to his entire country through radio and television. He became known as the "voice of the voiceless." 
Romero was attacked by fel­low priests as well as by the government for his work in protecting the rights of the Sal­vadoran people. They accused him of creating divisions among the priests and poorly administrating to the seminary. 
Brown also focused on how Romero remained true to him­self in the face of such adver­sity. 
He refused to tie himself fully to any political party. Romero looked at these parties in terms of his moral code, denouncing them for what he felt was amoral about them. He would not allow anyone change his agenda, explained Brown. 
Romero always stayed avail­able to the people. Brown cited a time when Romero rushed to a sewing class he had promised a young girl he would attend­straight from an intense politi­cal meeting. 
"With the greater danger ev­eryday he became more out­spoken," said Brown. 
Romero knew he might die, but continued his work with the hope that his death would help the Salvadorans. 

The Observer/Brett Moraski 

Kicking Back 
Studying no longer holds the attention of this student as he takes a break from studying at the library. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SUMMER SESSION Course Addition 
GEOS 102 Field Environmental Geology May 29-June 19,1994 
GEOS 102 is an intensive three-week, three-credit course for non-science and non-engineering majors that satisfies the University science requirement. There are no prerequisites beyond a basic knowledge of high school science and mathe­matics. 
The course will be taught at Notre Dame's Field Station in central Utah. Topics will include natural geologic hazards 
(e.g. earthquakes, floods and landslides); earth resources (e.g. water, energy and minerals); pollution and waste disposal; community planning; and impact mitigation. Numerous field trips will involve students on a daily basis with a hands-on approach to environmental problems recognition and mitigation. There will be quizzes, exercises and projects, and a final examination. 
The cost is $1800, including tuition and fees, field travel, room and board, educational materials and guest lecturers. Students will be responsible for additional travel costs to and from the Salt Lake City airport. A non-refundable deposit of $500 is required by April15, 1994. 
For additional information, contact Prof. J. Keith Rigby, 105 Cushing Hall(631-6245) or Prof. John Halfman, 106C Cushing Hall (631-5164). 
page 3 



SMCmath alumnae celebrated 
By PATTI CARSON Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Sesquicentennial Cele­bration of Mathematics will be presented this weekend to commemorate the first seventy years of mathematics at Saint Mary's College. 
"Actually, we have a mathe­matics department presenta­tion every other year in which we invite four or five alumnae math majors to share their job related experiences in the mathematical world with the students," said math professor Teresa Magnus. 
"This year's presentation has been expanded to cover 70 years of math at the college," Magnus said. 
The celebration will begin tonight at 5:30 p.m. in the North Wedge Room of the Din­ing Hall and will continu-e through Saturday afternoon. The celebration features pre­sentations by alumnae, stu­dents, and faculty, along with panel discussions. 
The part of the celebration that takes place on Friday might be particularly useful for math majors or minors. Alum­nae and faculty will share their stories and experiences about the work force, according to Magnus. 
These presentations are in­formative not only for math majors, but for other careers. Panelists will discuss women in the work force and the aspects of being an active member of the work force while having a family, according to Magnus. 
The math modeling contest is also on the agenda for Friday. It is a national game which consists of 2 teams with 3 stu­dents each. The teams are given a problem and allowed one weekend to solve this prob­lem, according to Magnus. 
"In the short time that the alumnae are with us, we hope to provide a glimpse of the past, samples of the present, and a preview of the next 70 years," said Sesquicentennial Celebration of Mathematics chair Don Miller. 
"The presentations by Sr. Miriam Cooney , class of 1951, and Eileen Donoghue , class of 1970, will help us look at where we have been. Student presentations on Friday night and Saturday morning will sample what we are presently doing," said Miller. 

Notre Dame Students & Faculty 

FREE SERVICE SHUTTLE 




JQ~~ 


We service all Ford, Lincoln-Mercury can .t trucks and all imports At Jefferson and Cedar Streets, Mishawaka 
Import Service: ( 219) 259-1981 ext. 271• Ford Service: (219) 259-1981 ext. 541 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 CALL 631-7361 FOR TIMES AND DATES 
FOR ALL CINEMA AT THE SNITE FILMS 
page 4 

Madness 
continued from page 1 
organizers cited one consola­tion-fabulous prizes. 
"Everyone wants to take home a little money." said Klau. "It's kind of like playing the lotto, you almost never win, but when you do its a great feeling." 
As with every pool, somebody must come out the victor. In Hoban's pool, that victor is go­ing to take home some very large spoils as the top fmisher is guaranteed at least two hun­dred dollars. The second and third place contestants will re­ceive prizes at well. 
But Hoban said even the losers get lucky sometimes. 
"We're going to give the guy who finishes dead last five bucks for his trouble," he said. 
Gonzalo is offering one lump 
Funeral services for Elisabeth Noel. former Saint Mary's professor of English, will be held at 4 p.m. on Friday. The service will be held at the Church of Our Lady of Loretto at Saint Mary's. 
Noel, 67, died Tuesday after­noon after a battle with breast and lung cancer. She had served on the faculty of Saint Mary's since 1960. 

Friends don•t let friends drive drunk! 

l 
London $275* Paris $293* Frankfurt $293* Rome $355* Athens $355* 
'fares are one Wltf han Chicago based on roondtrip Plf· chase. Restrctioosapp~ tms~re oct iocludedand fares are
1
Slbject to chafse. CalluCite" v.<Jrldwide destiriltionS. 


Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 

311·951·0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels magazine 



ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,COJ Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of.Print Search Service -$2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

-~----~-----~----~~·--­
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 25, 1994 
sum to his winner, while Klau offers a 65 percent, 35 percent, 
Weekend Minority enrollment 
10 percent split for his first sec­ond and third place finishers. 
continued from page 1 
None of the three plan to keep 



longtime ND concern 
any money for themselves. have questions about how com­
"I'm just keeping score," says fortable or difficult it is to fit in By KATIE MURPHY can do better. When you bring Gonzalo. "I don't see a need to Notre Dame. Associate News Editor students here you have to sup­skim ofT the top." port them." 
"There are going to be ob­
Despite the hours of labor stacles they may find and we Minority student enrollment and agony so many students want them to know about those has been a longtime concern of Simply admitting more mi­put in to their picks, sometimes too," said Tardy. the University. In addition to nority students will not fulfill the best way find winners is to sponsoring the spring visitation the University's goal for diver­skip the scientific approach all The high school seniors are weekend, admissions officers sity. The atmosphere on cam­together, said organizers. Plan­staying with volunteer host stu­actively seek high-achieving pus and people's attitudes to­ner sophomore Jeff Greve may dents in the dorms. Most of the minority students with letters, wards minorities must be have found the most unique students arrived yesterday and phone calls, and high school transformed from several an­
way to find success in his took their initial campus tours. visits year round. gles. room's poll, he said. Over the weekend they will The results of these efforts "It needs to come from ev­meet with administrators, fac­are encouraging. Since Father erybody," said Tardy. "It needs 
"I went through and looked at ulty members, Notre Dame mi­Edward Malloy became presi­to come from faculty and what all the team's nicknames. I nority students, and alumni. dent of the University, minority they teach and how they teach. picked the one's i liked to win, They will also visit classes and student enrollment has risen from The Observer and what and discarded the rest. Look at socialize. from 8.9 percent in 1986 to ap­they print, and from the dorms Tulsa. How can you go wrong proximately 14 percent in and rectors." with name like the Golden "If they like what they see, 1993, according to Institutional Hurricane," he said. hopefully they will come. If Research. More financial aid, schol­
they don't, it's better that they 
arships, and cultural diversity Greve is currently tied for find out now," said Tardy. However, the increase in activities in dorms, will intro­
second in that poll. numbers requires a corre­duce Notre Dame students to sponding increase in support both the differences and simi­services, activities, and re­larities between cultures, sources for minority students, according to Tardy. according to Melvin Tardy, as­"The biggest problem is edu­sistant director of admissions cation. People assume they and spring visitation weekend know people. They don't realize coordinator. that there is so much diversity 
"When everybody is talking and also a lot of things in com­about cultural diversity, they're mon," said Tardy. "Why pass talking about numbers," said up an opportunity to learn Tardy. "I have always felt we something different?" 



CONTRACT 
FOR 
LIFE 

THE COLLEGE CONTRACT FOR LIFE 
BETWEEN FRIENDS 
As students at , we recognize that many of our fellow students and friends choose to use alcoholic beverages and, that on occasion, some students may find themselves in a potential DWI situation. 
Therefore, we have entered into a contract in which we agree that if we are ever in a situation where we have had too much to drink, or a friend or date who has had too much to drink, we will seek safe and sober transportation home. 
We, the undersigned, also agree that we will provide or arrange safe, sober transportation home for each other should either of us face a situation where we have too much to drink. 
If we cannot find safe transportation, we will contact a taxi service, walk or stay the night. 
Signature of 1st Party Signature of 2nd Party 
Date Distributed by S.A.D.D., "Students Against Driving Drunk." 
If you are interested in signing a contract with one of your friends, you can find them 
next to the mailboxes in every dorm and copies will also be available in the front desk of La Fortune. If you have any questions or suggestions please contact Belen Serrano (Phone: 634-4096). 
---------------------~----­
-~---~-.--------~------------~---·---··­
Friday, March 25, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Loss of space hits cities hard ND/SMC awareness 
By HONORA BUCKLEY closed during 1990. churches contributed to the News writer Schools benefit the prosperity city's sense of place, explained of their parishes and should not Skerrett, the parishioners have 
Catholic parishes and schools be considered impediments, now moved to the suburbs, di­have come to be considered ex­said Skerrett. minishing the numbers in the pendable, said Ellen Skerrett, "This loss of sacred space ac­large city churches and one of the authors of "Catholi­celerated neighborhood change increasing the number of small­cism, Chicago Style." yesterday [and hits] doubly hard in a city er parishes outside the city. during the American Catholic where Catholics call their The immigrant population Studies Seminar "Sacred Space: neighborhoods by parish was one of the groups greatly 
Sunday, March 27 

Parish and Neighborhood in names," explained Skerrett. dependent upon its sacred 
Annual "Take Back the Nighr 
Chicago." According to Skerrett, "brick space as they established a 
walk will begin at Stonehenge 
on ND campus at 7:00p.m.
Skerrett, a social historian, and mortar Catholicism had place for themselves in the city 
has studied the impact of positive, long-term effects on through their parishes. 
Monday, March 28 

churches on their surrounding Chicago and its people." The "Parishes profoundly influ­
Steve Thompson, a sexual 

neighborhoods throughout the Archdiocese of Chicago would enced the way immigrants 
assault awareness advocate, 

history of Chicago. She focused not be as strong as it is today thought about themselves," 
will speak in the Le Mans Stapleton Lounge at 12:15.
on the diminishing Archdiocese without the number of church­commented Skerrett. "They of Chicago as increasing num­es it once maintained, said used parishes to create their 
Tuesday, March 29 
bers of parishes are closed Skerrett. community and identity in the 
"The Dating Game" will be 

down, most notably the 30 Where once the city's city." 
held at 7:30 in Haggar Parlor. 
Wednesday, March 30 
• 

The movie "The Accused" will be playing in room 120 of the ND Law Building at 7:00. 
student tying a pink ribbon to their backpack," 
Jones stated that this organi­zation is in "no way, shape, or form 'Male Bashing." This year there are twenty active presen­ters, four of which are males. 
Sam Rausch, one of the active male members of C.A.R.E., ex­pressed his view of sexual as­sault through the male per­spective. 
"Being a male, rape victims won't share as much with us as they would with another woman. I want my friends to feel that they can come to me. There is no way I can stop all the rapists in the world but we [C.A.R.E.] can prevent some people from getting hurt by them," he said. 
"Men need to do something to prevent rape from happening too. Males need to look at the attitudes and situations in which rape occurs. Just be­cause it won't happen to me or my roommate doesn't mean that it will not happen to a close friend, sister, or girl­friend," Rausch continued. 
"I decided to become active in 
C.A.R.E. because people need to know about sexual assault, not enough people are aware 
week begins Sunday 

By SARA LEAVITT NewsWrirer 
In an attempt to promote awareness of sexual assault is­sues at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, the Campus Alliance 

for Rape Elimination (C.A.R.E) will be sponsoring the annual Sexual Assault Awareness week beginning this Sunday. 
Because "Sexual Assault Awareness Week" is a joint ef­fort between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, there will be activities on both campus'. One of the events occurring at Saint Mary's this week is the Dating Game which started in 1989. 
"People were practically hanging from the rafters in Haggar Parlor. Because it was such a hit, the organization de­cided to bring it back this year in hopes that it will be as big of a success as before," said Ann Lyle, Saint Mary's chair of C.A.R.E. 
Besides the events planned, 
C.A.R.E. members will be hand­ing out pencils and business cards with necessary phone numbers to contact in case you or a friend has been sexually assaulted. 
The organization will also be having a pink ribbon drive. Each ribbon represents a victim of sexual assault and will be available in each residence hall and dining halls at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"It (C.A.R.E.) became active in the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame community in the mid 80's be­ing the first step in illiminating sexual assault through aware­ness," said Stacy Jones, 
C.A.R.E. president. 
"C.A.R.E. has come a long way is the past couple of years," said Candace Novak, one of Saint Mary's chairs of 
C.A.R.E. "Our goal is to really make C.A.R.E. a known organi­zation on the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campus and the Sexual Assault Awareness week is going to be our first attempt to get students and fac­ulty/administration involved; even if it is just consists of one 



~-------~--------~----~ -~ ------­
page6 The Observer • WHITEWATER NEWS Friday, March 25, 1994 

Clinton admits overstatement in land deal 
By jOHN KING Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton acknowl­edged Thursday night he had significantly overstated his loss in the Whitewater land deal and promised to release late 1970s tax returns to answer lingering questions about the investment. 
In a nationally televised news conference, Clinton vowed to keep health reform and other legislative items on track, even in the face of the simmering in­vestment controversy. 
Republican Senate leader Bob Dole immediately said Clinton had been "credible" and had "helped himself' with his re­marks. He and House Whip Newt Gingrich said that many questions remain and that they would continue to push for pub­lic hearings. 
Clinton said he expected spe­cial counsel Robert Fiske to question both him and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, about their investments, and he promised they would "cooper­ate with him in any way he decides is appropriate." 
Clinton also said he would co­operate with congressional hearings, and did not rule out personal testimony -as Gerald Ford did about his decision to pardon Richard Nixon for his role in Watergate. 
Clinton spent nearly 45 min­utes in the East Room for the second evening news confer­ence of his administration, opening with a statement in which he not only detailed his new willingness to release fi­nancial records but also vowed not to let Whitewater stall health care reform and other major initiatives. 
Clinton said it might appear to the country that Washington was preoccupied with Whitewa-



The Observer 
sports department is seeking individuals for the following positions: 

Copy Editors

l 

Staff Writers 

r 
I 
I 
l ' Any interested parties contact George Dohrmann at 631-4543 or come to the Observer Office 3rd floor LaFortune. 

preoccupied with the business we were sent here to do for the American people." 
"The American people should know that I and my adminis­tration will not be distracted," Clinton said. 





MUSIC 


NoTRE DAME 

GLEE CLUB 

SUNDAY 

MARcH 
27 ~ 1994 8PM 
BASILICA 
OF THE 
SACRED 
HEART 
F R E E ADMISSION 

had estimated during the pres­idential campaign. And he said he had waived any executive privilege and was fully cooper­ating with the special counsel investigating Whitewater, to the tune of turning over some 14,000 documents to his staff. 
one of his fiercest Whitewater critics, Republican Rep. Jim Leach, suggested the adminis­tration had abused its power in an effort to intimidate regula­tors, Clinton said, "The evi­dence is clear that I have not done that." 
He said if there was any pres­sure placed on regulators, it was done by "political career appointees of previous Republi­can administrations" and with­out his knowledge. "Absolutely," he said again when asked if he had upheld the high ethical standards he vowed his administration would keep. 
On other issues, Clinton: 
• 
Stated that White House staff members who do not ob­tain security clearances within 30 days will be placed on un­paid administrative leave. The White House said on Thursday that more than 10 percent of White House staff members still lack security clearances 14 months into President Clinton's term. 

• 
Urged the Mexican people "to continue their strides to­ward economic reform and progress" despite the assassi­nation of the ruling party's can­didate for president. He said the United States stood ready to assist if there was a run on Mexican currency. "We are ready to help the people of Mexico if that is necessary but we hope it isn't," he said. 


0 

-------~--------~--~------~------~---~------­
March 25, 1994 The Observer • MEXICO NEWS page 7 


Mexico looks for successor 
By JOHN RICE 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

Hundreds of ruling party faithful chanted a mournful farewell Thursday to Luis Don­
aldo Colosio, the man who almost surely would have been Mexico's next president but for an assassin's bul­lets. 


W h i I e Carlos Salinas Mexicans dealt with the shock of the country's first major political assassination since 1928, party leaders began considering the loss of Colosio as their presi­dential candidate five months before the election. 
The slaying of Colosio at a campaign rally Wednesday in Tijuana was a stunning blow for Mexico's leadership, already struggling with a peasant upris­ing in the south and growing discontent over economic changes brought by the free trade agreement with the United States and Canada. 
The killing was "an offense against all Mexicans and an af­front to the institutions which we have built throughout our history," said President Carlos Salinas de Gortari. 
"It has injured the deepest convictions of the people of Mexico, who have always been partisans of the path of har­mony, of law and of peace," Salinas said. 
Officials of the long-governing Institutional Revolutionary Party met with Salinas, who is barred by law from seeking a second six-year term and by tradition picks the party's can­didate. 
The leaders refused to say when they might name a new candidate, who will be the strong favorite to win the Aug. 21 election and be sworn in as president in December. 
The Institutional Revolution­ary Party has not lost a national election since it was founded in 1929. 
"It is a true tragedy. We still have not begun to think about the future," Oscar Espinosa, Colosio's campaign finance di­rector said. 
as officials ftled past the slain candidate's coffm at the party's sprawling concrete headquar­ters in downtown Mexico City. 
Salinas accompanied 
Colosio's body from the airport to the headquarters. 
where it lay in state under a banner adorned with the party's red, white and green symbol. Party activists applaud­ed as Salinas stood at attention and chants of "Colosio! Colosio!" rang across the audi­torium. 
Although party leaders de­clined to discuss new candi­dates, speculation quickly fo­cused on several possibilities. 
T)le front-runners appeared to be Ernesto Zedillo, who re­signed as education secretary to coordinate Colosio's cam­paign, party chairman Fernando Ortiz Arana, and Manuel Camacho Solis, the gov­ernment's negotiator with the Indian rebels in Chiapas state. 
Only on Tuesday, the popular Camacho had given Colosio's campaign a big boost by an­nouncing he would not run for president as an independent candidate. That might help Camacho while the party con­siders a new candidate, but many party leaders were infu­riated by his long refusal to en­dorse Colosio. 
The party's options for replacing Colosio are limited by a constitutional ban on a candi­
What's the Big Deal About Binge Drinking? 
Binge drinking --consuming five or more drinks in a row in the past two weeks -­is a major concern for college administrators as well as public health and public safety officials. These high volume drinking incidences place the drinker and persons around him or her at increased risk of injury. 
In college alcohol studies, over half (57.4%) of the men and one third (35.5%) of the women are binge drinkers. Binge drinkers usually drink to get drunk. Half of the binge drinkers of both sexes (51.8% of the men and 53.7% of the women) drink to get drunk compared to about one-fifth of the other drinkers (18.8% of the men and 20.2% of the women). 
Alcohol Related Problems of Binge and Other Drinkers 
Hangover Do something you regret Unplanned sexual activity Forget what you did Miss classes Get behind in school work Arguments with friends Damage property Physical fights Trouble with police Ticket for moving violation Automobile accident 
Binge Drinkers Other Drinkers 
Men  Women  Men  Women  
56.6%  55.3%  21.2%  19.4%  
41.6%  49.3%  13.5%  19.6%  
34.3%  27.5%  10.4%  09.4%  
28.6%  30.6%  07.8%  07.9%  
20.5%  25.1%  05.2%  03.5%  
15.5%  14.8%  02.6%  03.4%  
15.8%  12.4%  04.1%  06.2%  
17.8%  02.1%  04.1%  00.5%  
10.1%  02.3%  02.6%  00.7%  
09.1%  03.4%  01.6%  00.5%  
01.0%  00.5%  00.5%  00.0%  
01.0%  00.8%  00.0%  00.0%  

Source: AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety, study by the Harvard School of Public Health,1991. 
Binge drinkers experienced a variety of problems more frequently than other drinkers. About half of binge drinkers of both sexes experienced hangovers and did something they regretted. Over a quarter engaged in unplanned sexual activity, and forgot where they were or what they did. Depending on the specific problem, binge drinkers are two to five times as likely to be affected as other drinkers. Male binge drinkers more frequently damaged property (17.8%), got into physical fights (10.1%), and got into trouble with police (9.1%). 
Binge drinkers in contrast to other drinkers more frequently drove after drinking and rode with drinking drivers. Most binge drinkers (70.5% of the men and 58.4% of the women) drove after drinking one or two drinks. Over a quarter (29.5%) of the male binge drinkers drove after having five or more drinks. In addition, over half of male and female binge drinkers (53%) rode with high or intoxicated drivers. In terms of other unsafe driving behaviors, binge drinkers, particularly men, were more likely to drag race. Female binge drinkers were more likely to get a speeding ticket and have an automobile accident than female other drinkers. ­
This week is National Collegiate Health and Wellness Week, brought to you by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. If you need more information or assistance, please contact us at 631-7970. 

Colosio assasination stuns Mexicans 
ByJOSEPH FRAZIER 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

From shoe-shiners to cafe patrons, people stared quietly at the black headlines blaring "Consternation!" and "Assassinated!" 
But few expressed a sense of crisis on Thursday over the as­sassination . the night before of Luis Donaldo Colosio, almost certain to have been elected president in August. 
"He was a man who got killed, like John Kennedy 10 or 12 years ago," said Sergio Munoz, keeping his eyes on the concrete he was mixing. "The government, the govern­ment can fix anything." 
For 65 years, the govern­ment and the Institutional Revolutionary Party have indeed solved most of Mexico's political problems, or at least made them go away. The PRI has won every presidential election since, sometimes by fraud, but it is the only govern­ment most Mexicans have ever known. 
In 1928 President-elect Al­varo Obregon was assassi­nated. The PRI was formed a year later by President Plutarco Elias Calles to bring warring political factions together and end an 18-year string of coups and assassina­tions. 
His plan worked and Mexico's stability has been the envy of its often-turbulent Latin neighbors. 
Rosalino Montero, 34, a hot dog vendor outside the a sub­way station, was at loss to ex­plain the murder Wednesday night. 

"It could be an attack among themselves (the PRI) or it could be some other party," he speculated. "He was working well, the campaign was going well. We feel it, not only (because he was) a candidate. I have a family, too. I am by his side." 
Juan Carlos Tostato, 20, a civil engineering student, pre­dicted officials within the party who might have knowledge of the killing could try to blame it on rebels or foreigners to steer attention away from the elec­tions. 
Through ignoring problems or stonewalling them, Mexico's governments have weathered some rough times. More re­cently the problems have re­fused to stay under the rug. 
Wednesday night's murder, a bloody Jan. 1 peasant upris­ing in the southern state of Chi a pas, the kidnapping last. week of a prominent banker and increasing takeovers of land and government installa­tions by angry workers are beginning to wear on Mexico's stability. 
The test now is how the country as a whole will react to an unaccustomed series of crises. Mexico is good at han­dling rough spots one at a time, but has had more than its share this year. 
Some unrest is endemic in Mexico but a combination of intimidation, compromise and the ability of the PRI to co-opt or otherwise buy ofT its oppo­nents had kept most problems from boiling over. 
SOUTH BEND RECORD&CD COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
SUNDAY, MARCH 27fH 10:00 AM-5:00 PM ADMISSION $3.00 AT: THE HOUDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) SlSDIXIEWAYN. US 31 -33 NORlH 
1,00 OFF APMISSION WDJ1 DDS AD 
BUY. SELL. TRADE COLLECTIBLES FROM THE 
LP's-CD's-45's-12 inclt singles-imporu 


posters -magazinu -boob -c011c:ert plwlos -vi<kos r-shiru • ctWettes -pins -p<Ur:lle.s Gild muciJ ~~~~>n!!l 
FOR DEAlER INFO CALL Blalll at (616) 375-m6 

When the Great American Dream 
isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A on~-y~ar program at Mor~au S~minary at the Univer\ily or Notre Dame ror colkge gradual~:-. llliCr~:--.ted in ~xploring the P('Ssihilily or a lifetime or -,nvic~ a-, a Holv Cross priest or hroth~r. Scholarship as~istance is availahk. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley. esc Fr. Patrick Hannon. CS.C. Conl!rel!atJon or Holy Cross 13ll\ :1-l 1.~ Nl~trc Dame. Indiana -l6:1Sn 
t ~ ll)) n31-63X:'i 
Ferries, trains blocked; Paris braces for protest 
By PATRICK McDOWELL 
Associared Press 
PARIS 
Students opposed to cuts in the minimum pay for youths battled police and blocked fer­ries, trains and a highway Thursday. Authorities expelled two Algerian immigrants who attacked police during an ear­lier protest. 
In the worst among the na­tionwide protests, scores of youths hurled bottles and a firebomb at police in Nantes at the end of an otherwise peace­ful demonstration by 8,000 stu­dents. 
Five people were arrested in Nantes, 240 miles west of Paris, and 10 police officers and a television journalist were hurt. 
Nantes Mayor Jean-Marc Ayrault, whose town is the worst hit in three weeks of na­tionwide rioting, urged the gov­ernment to repeal the wage law. 
Interior Minister Charles Pasqua called up thousands of police reinforcements to keep the peace Friday in Paris. Three previous protests in the capital have degenerated into riots. 
Meanwhile, two Algerian immigrants arrested during ri­oting Tuesday in Lyon and ac­cused of attacking police were expelled Thursday. Anti-racism groups demanded a meeting with the government. 
"Those who attack the police have no purpose on our soil," said Pasqua, architect of tough 
Tr-ul~ 
~ff()r-dable 



Livinu 
Make your next move to Hickory Village and discover affordability, convenience and comfort. 
We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activities program that includes team sports, free aerobics classes, and much more. 
Efficiencies from $280 1-Bedrooms from $295 2-Bedrooms from $355 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony Air Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Activities with Free Aerobics 
Stop by today and we'll show you how affordable apartment living can be. 



+llCKORij J DlLLAC3Efj 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 &Sun. 12-4 
_":f:\ 
~?tt:~ CR£A'f "YALL 
If. 
-::-· 
t 
"" 
'\ 
f 
~ 
~~. 
' 
I ~ 
l 
"' ~ E i 1'\ ~ 
~ 
•
:? 
l
t• 
} 
i 
~ 
!i 
~ 1 ~ 
i 
<;, 
j
" 
; ~f " 
>: 
~ 
~ 
•t 
i ~ 
'i 
~ 
r 
j 
~ 
~ 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991,1992 AND 1993!
.,, 
Szechuan • Cantonese • American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday '8.95 for Adults 
• 3.95 for Children under tO 
0 
I I I ~ I
. . .. 

CASTING & ANGLING . ... COURSE 
FIVE SESSIONS WEDNESDAYS 6:00-7:30 PM MARCH 30, APRIL 6, 13, 20 & 27 OPEN TO STUDENTS & STAFF $8.00 CLASS FEE 
EQUIPMENT PROVIDED BUT BRING OWN EQUIPMENT WHEN POSSIBLE 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE ATRECSPORTS FIRST CLASS TO BE HEW IN ]ACC ARENA 631-6100 

anti-immigration laws. "They're delinquents. If there are others, they'll get the same treatment." 
Five unidentified foreigners were among 17 people arrested Thursday in Lyon. One police officer was injured. 
In Calais, about 500 students blocked an English Channel car ferry terminal for several hours, causing major traffic jams. 
About 800 protesters shut 
down the main highway run­ning through Heims. east of Paris, and students blocked trains and a bus and tram de­pots in other cities. 
The protests have become a test of wills between Prime Minister Edouard Balladur and students opposed to his bid to ease 12.2 percent unemploy­ment by cutting the minimum wage for recent graduates. 
After offering concessions last week, Balladur dug in his heels and let the law go into effect af­ter his right-wing coalition fared well in local elections Sunday. The prime minister appears concerned not to let his reputation for caving in quickly to protest worsen. 
The job law allows employers to hire new graduates for 20 percent less than the minimum wage of $1,000 a month for up to a year. The employers in turn would be expected to pro­vide extra training. 
Low-Risk Guidelines On Alcohol Consumption 
The lack of clear quantifiable guidelines for low-risk alcohol use is one contributing factor to alcohol abuse on the college campus. For other health issues, students have been given very clear numbers: 
• 
keep blood cholesterol below 200 exercise 3-4 times a week an aerobic workout should last about 30 minutes 

• 
ideal blood pressure is 120 over 80 


It is amazing how well students know the normative standards for these and other health concerns. It is equally amazing that students and the general public lack firm quantified boundaries for low risk consumption of alcohol. 
The lack of clear limits has not been helped by vague advertisements from the alcohol industry and other media influences telling Americans they should "know when to say when: This slogan offers not clear boundaries and is wide open to personal interpretation. The slogan is an invitation to high risk consumption patterns. Numbers are needed to let people know when drinking is out of bounds. Some health agencies are attempting to solve the ambiguity by the promotion of a concept called Zero-One-Three. 
Zero-One-Three 
The Zero-One-Three concept was developed by the Enjoy Michigan Safely Coalition and funded by the Michigan Office of Highway Safety Planning. Zero. One, and Three are easy numbers to remember. They represent alcohol consumption norms which should be promoted. Each number stands for a component of the concept and deserves an explanation. 
ZE RO=ZERO ALCOHOL. IT'S OKAY NOT TO DRINK, ESPECIALLY IF 
YOU'RE UNDER 21, DRIVING, CHEMICALLY DEPENDENT, 
ON CERTAIN MEDICATIONS OR PREGNANT. 
Alcohol is a drug and tens of millions of adults choose to live a drug free, and therefore an alcohol free lifestyle. It is the choice made by approximately 30% of the adult population. ZERO alcohol consumption is a viable optio_n. and_in s?me cases, the only viable option for numerous segments of the populat1on. S1tuat1ons where zero is an option include: 
• 
People who cannot limit and control their drinking; 

• 
People who are not of legal age; Women who are pregnant or think they may be pregnant; 

• 
People who suffer from alcoholism or other chemical dependencies; People from homes where alcoholism or abusive consumption is present; 

• 
People who are susceptible to problem drinking; 

• 
People who must drive; 

• 
People who do not like the physiologic effect of alcohol; 

• 
People who are trying to cut down on empty calories; 

• 
People who prefer the taste of non-alcoholic beverages; 

• 
Diabetics; 


• 
People on certain medications. 


Zero should always be provided as an option and should be 
promoted as a healthy, socially acceptable norm. Many students are 
surprised to find how many people choose the zero option when given a 
choice. 

ONE =ONE DRINK PER HOUR SETS THE PACE FOR MODERATE DRINKING 
0 N E drink is defined as one twelve ounce can of beer or one shot of liquor (a mixed drink). If a person is have more than one drink per hour, he/she is out of bounds and is exceeding the recommended consumption pace. Because of the rate by which alcohol is metabolized in the body, more than one drink per hour will/can cause you to be under the influence should you be tested for any reason. By keeping the pace to one drink per hour, you will not allow your body's alcohol metabolism capacity to be surpassed by alcohol intake. This will keep blood alcohol content within safer limits. Remember, legal blood alcohol content is 0.10% in Indiana. 
THREE = NO MORE THAN THREE DRINKS PER DAY, AND NEVER DAILY 
THREE represents the total maximum number of drinks a person should ever have in a single day. It does not mean three at each of five campus bars. Also. remember these three drinks are not to be consumed at a faster pace than one per hour. 
This week Is National Collegiate Health and Well ness Week, brought to you by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. If you need more information or assistance, please contact us at 631-7970. 



Friday, March 25, 1994 




Leader rejects U.S. proposal 
By SLOBODAN LEKIC 
Associated Press 
PALE, Bosnia-Herzegovina 

Bosnian Serb leaders reject­ed the idea of joining a federa­tion with Muslims and Croats on Thursday, dashing hopes that Serbs might embrace the U.S.-backed plan. 
Instead, members of a Bosnian Serb assembly said they would try to unite their self-declared state in Bosnia with neighboring Serbia. 
Although some ties to a Mus­lim-Croat state were not ruled out, the tough Serb stance will complicate efforts to resolve the 23-month-long Bosnian war. 
It also virtually assures that Bosnia will emerge from the war a divided state. 
Bosnian Serbs "cannot unite with the Muslim-Croat federa­tion because conditions for a joint state do not exist," the as­sembly said in a statement fol­lowing a closed meeting. 
"The Serb priority is the full union with Serbia and other Serb lands." 
Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic had urged the assem­bly to reject joining the federa­tion. 
"After two years of war and so many victims, we do not have the right to enter a joint state with them," he said. 
"I do not exclude the 
possibility of different types of ties -but not federal ones ­with a newly created state." 
The assembly did not address the issue of how much territory Bosnian Serbs might cede to the Muslim-Croat coali­tion to secure a peace settle­ment. 
Karadzic had indicated earli­er he might consider joining the Croats and Muslims, who signed an accord last week in Washington establishing the federation. 
But he said Thursday that the Bosnian Serbs wanted "our own sovereign and indepen­dent state, with defendable frontiers and access to the sea." 

MARKETING MUGS FOR SALE 
IN MARKETING OFFICE ROOM 255 HAYES-HEALY M-F; 9AM-5PM EVERYDAY! 
1 mug$10 
~ rm~~ ~Jltm 


3 mugs $25 
{!: rm~~ ~33® 


Fighting began in April 1992 when Bosnia's minority Serbs, armed by the Yugoslav federal army, rebelled against Muslim­Croat moves to secede from Yugoslavia. 
Serbs grabbed more than 70 percent of the country, and Bosnian Croats and the Mus­lim-led government fought over much of the rest. More than 200,000 people are believed to be dead or missing. 
U.S. special envoy Charles Redman and the Bosnian gov­ernment have indicated they will press the Serbs to give up one-third of the 72 percent of Bosnia they occupied. 






WIDESPREAD 
HELP WORLD HUNGER COALITION WITH 




PANIC 
EASTER FOOD BASKETS! 
MONDAY, MARCH 28 AT STEPAN CENTER 
2:00-4:00 PM ASSEMBLE 4:00-7:00 PM DISTRIBUTE 

SUMMER CLASSES ! 



REDBUD 
Fine Art Workshops 
2 week -3 credit courses 
ACTING CERAMICS PRINTMAKING SCULPTURE 
MAY 16 • 28,1994 
Sponsored by the 
Art Dept. of 
Saint Mary's College 
For information or 
application call: 
284-4655 or 284-4795 

LAFAYETTE SOUARE 
T 0 W N H 0~ E S 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "lVhere Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet OurFriendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 


232-8256 

The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 25, 1994 
Dozens injured in gas explosion 
STEPAN CENrrE 6PM -lVIII:JNIGI-IT
artists & graphic designers 

FRIDAY l\11ARCH 25T 
on staff 

• affordable rates 
• dlstrlbuton to Notre Dome & Saint Mary's 
For Further Information contact~ Tom Lil at 631-8839 I K 
Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson'"Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us sendyou to Europe! 
*Airfares Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. Low airfares to Europe. 
the ultimate battle of the 23 most talented bands at Notre Dame 
. 
By NANCY PLEVIN ~ Associated Press 
EDISON, N.J. 

First came the roar, then a reddish-orange glow like the sun was shining in the middle of the night. As the flames leaped 100 feet into the air, barefoot pajama-clad residents fled for their lives. 
On Thursday, teams of rescue workers and dogs scoured the bombed-out neighborhood for possible victims of the natural gas explosion that leveled eight apartment buildings and sparked an inferno visible in three states. 
The blast left at least 250 people homeless. Nearly 500 people, some bandaged and wrapped in blankets, sought shelter at a Red Cross evacua­tion center at the township's high school. 
Just one fatality -a heart at­tack victim -was reported. About 40 of the 250 people liv­ing in the destroyed buildings had not been accounted for by late afternoon. 
"All of a sudden I heard a WHOOSH!" evacuee John Gal­lagher said. "It was like the sun was shining in the middle of the night. I just got my wife and myself and we just ran out with what we had on, in our under­wear." 
Witnesses described a deafening roar as the pipeline ruptured and the gas blasted out of the hole and caught fire. The flames shot more than 100 feet into the night sky like a huge blowtorch. 
Within minutes the intense heat ignited buildings, cars and almost anything else within its reach. 
"The roaring sound, it was unbelievable," said 67 -year-old Albert Warshawsky, who jumped from his second-story patio with his wife and son. 
"We just got out really by the 
*Rail Passes Rail Passes issued in our office! No service fee! 
True North
CheckE~ine

Timetables, prices, tickets available! 
Spinning enny Dazed 1!1 Confused 
*Experience Over 20 years experience working with 
Sleight o Hana Tabula Rasa 
Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students and 
Comeupp_ance The Road Apples
faculty travelling to Europe. 
Trash the Craven Michael McGlinn
We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 
Pulse July
1723 South Bend Ave. 
Spoon Fed Pinchpoint
-Next to the Notre Dame campus-
Defunct Victoria's Keal Secret
(219)271-4880 
skin of our teeth.... I was going to get my car, and my kid put a bear hug on me and that was the end of that." The car burned moments later. 
A 32-year-old woman living at the apartment complex died of a heart attack, said Arthur Cifelli, chief of staff to Edison Mayor George Spadoro. 
Hospital officials reported at least 100 people injured, mostly with minor burns and smoke inhalation. The cause of the blast was unknown. Local and federal officials were investigating. 
The 36-inch-diameter pipeline was one of three owned by Texas Eastern Transmission of Houston that run through Middlesex County 


Cripe St. 
emily_
Sunshine Wine 
Candyflip

Roadrunner &the Acme Do-it-YourselfHorn Kit 
Katharsis 
XYZ Affair 

carrying natural gas to New Jersey utilities, said company official Tom Wooden. He said the carbon steel pipe had been installed in 1961. The pipeline was about 300 yards from the complex. 
Texas Eastern officials said the line had been thoroughly inspected in 1986 and regular maintenance had not revealed any problems. 
Texas Eastern was involved in three natural pipeline explo­sions in the mid-1980s, all of which were blamed on the company. Ten people were killed and 29 injured. 
Township officials said more than 1,500 people lived at the Durham Woods Apartments. 

....--s;e; .. u

au ­
=·· 





BUSINESS 
Friday, March 25, 1994 page 11 
Defense firm enters telecommunications field 
March 24, 1994lim High !3,865.42 Highest close i3 978.36 
3821.09 

-48.37 Low i3,792.58 January 31. 1994 ! '
lOilii 
4025 3950

\_AA....
rl 
3875

rr-~~\ 
3800

If 
3725 
3650 
3575 

1/1/94 2/1/94 3/1/94 4/1/94 5/1/94 
By KIM MILLS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

People virtually anywhere in the world would be able to make calls and send faxes and electronic mail from mobile phones-without dialing cum­bersome "roaming codes" ­under a satellite telecommuni­
cations ·system  described  
Thursday.  
Loral Corp.,  a  New York­ 

based defense contractor, an­nounced the formation of Glob­alstar, an international consor­tium that proposes to use 48 satellites to link the world by 



Philip Morris sues ABC 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Philip Morris Companies Inc. today sued ABC for $10 billion, accusing the news giant of libel in two reports that said the ci­garette industry artificially spikes its products with nico­tine. 
On ABC's "Day One" news program, the network said ni­cotine is added to cigarettes during the manufacturing pro­cess in order to hook smokers. 
"Philip Morris does not in any way, shape or form spike its cigarettes with nicotine," said Murray Bring, senior vice president of Philip Morris. "These allegations are not true and ABC knows that they are not true." 
ABC did not immediately comment on the lawsuit. 
The lawsuit, filed today in Virginia Circuit Court in Rich­mond, names ABC, "Day One" reporter John Martin and pro­ducer Walt Bogdanich. 
It claims the two-part series on cigarettes, aired Feb. 28 and. March 7, caused prices of Philip Morris' 800 million pub­licly traded stock shares to de­cline. 
The suit seeks $5 billion in compensatory damages and $5 billion in punitive damages. 
The Food and Drug Adminis­tration is considering designat­ing nicotine as a drug, a move that would allow it to regulate cigarettes and, Commissioner David Kessler told Congress, would probably take most to­bacco products off the market. 
The decision hinges on whether there is enough evi­dence that nicotine is addictive and that cigarette makers ma­nipulate its levels. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 
2 IN production studio 




Interactive TV comes to South Bend 
By MICHAEL MARTIN games that are not related to television Business Editor BUSINESS PROFILE broadcasts, such as "Maze Runner,:• "Submarine Challenge," and "Word 
No longer will couch potatoes around the and made available to the Sleuth." Educational programs are also world be allowed to second-guess game player within minutes. built in to the control unit, allowing sub­show contestants or berate football coach­For those with the "com­scribers to take SAT preparatory classes es for their bad play selection. It's time for petitive" service, the with their Interactive Network system. them to put their money where their scores The system is unique because it takes mouth is, thanks to Interactive Net­c o u I d technology and resources available to any work. I result in firm and combines them in an entertaining 
The California-based company TV prizes package that is available today. "We utilize is introducing its new Interactive broadcast rang­the existing infrastructure... We didn't Network Control Unit into a select signal i n g need special FCC laws to make this possi­number of test markets, including ble," Walecek pointed out. 
~ 

South Bend. The unit allows people at "We first tested the system with about home to play along with game shows, 250 families in the Sacramento area," said 
,

mystery programs, and sporting Walecek. "We used that as our laboratory, events, as well as other games that asking the families what they liked, what do not involve television programs. kind of programming they wanted to see, 
The idea for Inter­and how they wanted to use it." active Network started The control units were then made avail­about ten years ago, IN central able in Sacramento through retail stores according to Anne Wale-computer such as Sears and Montgomery Ward in cek, sales representative system 1991. The following year the company for the company. Dave launched an extremely effective market­Lockton was then Chief ing campaign in the San Francisco Bay Executive officer of Dataspeed, area centered around a thirty-minute Inc., a company most noted for "infomercial" aired around Christmas. its marketing of hand-held The strategy resulted in a substantial in-devices that were able to crease in subscribers to the system. quote stock prices up to the The company built on this success by minute. The company was expanding its test markets once more to subsequently sold to Lotus Inc. Chicago and South Bend, for the explo­in 1983, so Lockton then took ration of the opportunities available advantage of his knowledge of the in renting out the control unit. technology and moved on to the new "South Bend is really interactive television market, forming important to us," Interactive Network, Inc. that same year. . 4 emphasized Walecek. 
"He went through several incarnations of Wireless, "It's a very important
~ 

creating a user-friendly, unintimidating portable test to help us round control unit. He didn't want it to look like a Control out all of the impor­computer, even though it is a sort of laptop from Unit tant marketing and computer," said Anne Walecek. mer­pricing issues before 
These efforts culminated in the creation chandise we expand nationally of a sleek, lightweight, and compact device to trips to in September to ten or fifteen with a hidden keyboard that the user can see major more markets." easily slide into place. sporting and Walecek characterized South Bend 
The company leases space from the entertainment as a "great sports town" which also unused portion of FM radio subcarriers events. Those who had the demographics they were and then simulcasts signals that go along subscribe to the lt looking for in the population o with the signals broadcast from television "basic" service can still their test market. To promote its stations. The FM signals make sense of the see how they did in relation product, Interactive Network is events on the screen for the computer and to other planning a local demonstration allows the evaluation of how the user does players, utilizing the broadcast of the in predicting the play, answering the ques­although 5 annual "Cross Town Classic" game tion, or solving the mystery. they are 20-second local between the Chicago Cubs and the 
After the program is over, the user plugs not elig­scoring call to Chicago room couch. the control unit into any phone jack for a ible for compete for With its new and affordable tech­twenty-second local call which downloads prizes. prizes nology, Interactive Network allows the the information from the control unit to the The sys­average fan to stalk the sidelines with main computer. The results of the system's tem also Lou Holtz, secure in the comfort of his or nationwide subscribers are then tabulated has the capability to play her own living room. 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

mobile and stationary phone. Globalstar is one of at least five such ventures seeking approval from the Federal Communica­tions Commission to operate in the United States. 
"What we are doing is tap­ping into the very significant capability that we have devel­oped in the defense area and converting it into this new, growing marketplace," Bernard Schwartz, Loral's chairman and chief executive officer, said at a news conference. 
He said the Globalstar system would be different from other proposed wireless communica­tion systems because it will work through the existing telecommunication infrastruc­ture. 
Globalstar already has part­ners signed up in 33 countries, from Algeria to Vietnam ­although such developed coun­tries as Italy, Germany, Canada, Mexico and Japan are not arnong them. PacTel Corp. of San Francisco -a strategic partner in the consortium ­would be the sole service provider in the United States. 
Globalstar plans to sell fran­chises to other local telecom­munication service providers around the world, who would then be responsible for obtain­ing the necessary licenses. 
Using today's cellular phone service, many consumers must look up and punch in "roaming codes" when they move from city to city. Some remote areas are completely outside the range of cell phones. 
Globalstar would solve these problems through a constella­tion of 48 low-orbit satellites that would seamlessly hand off calls as consumers move from place to place, said Douglas Dwyer, Globalstar's president. 
Dwyer also said the quality of transmission would be much better than on current cellular phones because of the number of satellites. The system would choose the clearest angle from among available satellites so "the possibility of obstructions is greatly reduced." 
Under the plan disclosed Thursday, Globalstar would be­gin service in 1998 and be fully operational a year later. It ex­pects to have 5 million sub­scribers by 2002 and 33 million by 2012, said Anthony Navarra, Globalstar's executive vice president. This amounts to between 40 percent and 50 per-. cent of the world market, he said. 
WASHINGTON INDIANAPOLIS WASHINGTON 
The primary objective of Rand McNally & Co. is con­Thirty-year, fixed-rate mort­President Clinton's China policy sidering closing its Indianapolis gages averaged 7.8 percent this is to get enough progress on book-printing plant unless the week, up from 7.76 percent last human rights to justify renewal union is willing to make con­week, according to a national of China's most-favored-nation tract concessions. In addition to survey released Thursday by trade status, Assistant Secre­the Indianapolis facility, Rand the Federal Home Loan tary of State Winston Lord said has printing plants in Mortgage Corp. Thursday. Versailles, Ky., and Taunton, It was the highest level since 
"MFN renewal is certainly at­Mass .. but officials said they the week that ended Feb. 5, tainable and within China's only have enough work to keep 1993, when mortgages also av­reach," Lord said during hear­two plants running and that eraged 7.8 percent. It also was ings in both the Senate and Indianapolis is the only one in more than 1 percentage point House. danger of being closed. above the 25-year low. 
------~~---------------------.--~-.-----,.----------------~--~--._--~~--~----~~--~.. 



VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, March 25, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAIIIT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chlef Jake Peters Managing Editor Bwiness Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Produetion Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent IOditor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor....................... Scotr Mendenhall Observer Marketing Direetor ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily refleCt the policies of the administra­tion of ei<her institmion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of ilie authors, and not necessarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­mu.niry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 

Observer Phone Lines  
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  
Managing Editor /Viewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  

631-4540 631-5303 631-6900I 8840 631-8839 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Abortion and the Lenten season 
Dear Editor: 

History seems to repeat itself. As we relive the sufferings of Christ this Lenten season, we recall, among other things, Christ's appearance before Pilate and the masses of Judea. 
We see Pilate, a man of the people, one of the early politi­cians who knew little beyond the requests of his people and the issues affecting the state. Pilate acquired and retained his position through his unques­tioning acquiescence with the will of the people, right or wrong. 
And, then the masses, who in riotous droves, continuously shouted for the crucifixion of Christ, although fully unknow­ingly putting to death the Son of God. Their motivation may be stemmed to a refusal to take any responsibility for their very lives: to accept Christ's man­date to love and obey Him, and secondarily to love one another. 
Knowing well that Christ's innocence was wholly unde­serving of such an ignominous fate as crucifixion, Pilate, nonetheless, acquiesced to the will of the people, albeit reluc­tantly. and thus, the blood of God was spilled by and for hu­manity. 
Most unfortunately, our world has returned to this same sorrowful day, at an alarmingly increasing rate. 
Fifty million times a year. 

The times have changed, but the people have not. See any similarity between President William Clinton and Pontius Pilate, and perhaps the faction we endearingly call pro-choice arm in arm with throngs of ap­athetic citizens and the masses of Judea? 
Who is on the scaffolding to-
DOONESBURY 
50 WHY 
5HOUWYOU OPPOS& H.R.3434? 
BECAUS£3 
ITTHPOW5 
5/v101<£R!3 
OUT INTO 
TH&~/ 
/ 


day with the president? Millions of innocent, unborn babies. Does the president see any reason to condemn them to death? Let's hope not. Who is the most vocal among the masses? The pro-choice, whose numbers have drowned the voices of the {nonapathetic) pro-lifers? 
What are they shouting? "We will not take responsibility for our actions; the rights of the unborn are nonexistent or sub­ordinate to our own, for we believe them to be nonhuman or simply intruding extensions of our bodies; abort them!" 
The president, having ex­emplified many times in the past a propensity to promise anything or advocate both sides of an issue to acquire and keep his office, has unfortunately forgotten to consider the right thing to do. With little ado, with the dramatic stroke of a pen, he signs away the the lives of millions of future American citizens, each of whom had the potential to contribute in ex­traordinary ways to our society. 
Does it send shivers down your spine, to think that a fu­ture world leader or even pope could have been aborted in this country, or under the hands of a far away government whose population restriction program our tax dollars support? Let's hope so. 
Already, there are grave prices to pay for these mortal sins of the highest degree. Specifically, the sin is the gen­eral malaise from pro-choice and pro-life factions alike in light of the fact that the lives of millions of human beings are being squandered for the so­called rights of others. 
There is no way to rationalize around this fact. The essence of a human being is Spirit, not any arbitrarily chosen physical state. The very breath of life and descent of the Spirit occurs at the precise moment of con­ception. By ignoring these medical and theological com­ponents, our society has con­tinually condemned Christ to death, for He permeates the Spirit of every human being. 
Indeed, how little has changed since the passion of Christ. With a realization of the tremendous stakes at hand, maybe more of the apathetic among us can be persuaded into acting in Christ's defense. 
ANTHONY POPANZ 
Junior Flanner Hall 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
IF THI~ 8/U PA'35£S, 5/1101<8?3  THAT'§ RJ6HT,  ANO P80P!£fAJONOCR  
a/IU 8& FORC&P TO BATT£&  &VtN/N-40°  UJHY5MOK#5 HAV&  
THt t/..EM£3N75 eVeRY TIM&  WINO 01/LL­ HEAL7H PROBL£Mf31  
THE3Y 01005& 7lJ £.1647 UP/  CONlJ/TION~)T  
/.U(}{)I.-/)£3&  
A6AINST 7HI5  
LAW 70 5MJKE  
IN'3/llf3-'  


dnot 

··'£ matter of hours the 
not have react­as much speed as to stop a harmless 
· friends and 
all;Ws been ce anyone has an alcohol-rehtt­
that we can't try as hard as we 
folks, let's all We all know 
_,_,_,__ age is; it's 

very store that ~..,u....... We ask the uni­us as respon­and then we cannot behave 
u"~'l'u·"'""""" adults. Do youthe police should us when they set up a speed .~u,vu11u they warn drug >e._._.,....,,", when they decide it's infUtrate a drug oper­
shouldn't the police 

· enormous St. Paddy's ? Don't make it e ND students 
above the law, and 
how a little more than has been far, Admit you law, take you),' 
learn from the all; we are girlsnow.. 
Student in Government University Village 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Behind every success­ful man there stands an amazed woman. " 
-Anonymous 

Friday, March 25, 1994 page 13


VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A Notre Dame narrative: Sketches of a Stroll ... 
Dear Editor: glory. This was so much differ­
Among the -innumerable ent from the situation I had just things I've had to battle to date, observed. I resisted the temp­one certainly earns the adjec­tation to compare them, be­tives impregnable and undying cause deep in my heart I knew boredom. Yes, boredom! They that they stood for different say where there is smoke there things. is fire. I'm tempted to say, Mulling over these and simi­where there is work there is lar ideas, I walked away from boredom. Maybe its my nature the building into the crowd of or maybe its the nature of my jeans and backpacks. I soon be­work, but. I am unable to reject came one with the murmur the thought of leaving my work melted away into generality. I for a cup of coffee or taking a realized that we were all com­stroll. muters between the halls of 
Such an occasion arises at learning. We were all riders on least once during the day. I try this "human train" which nego­hard to listen to that "inner tiated on concrete pathways voice" which advises me to rather than steel rails. The keep working, not to loose my train which held within it's concentration, etc. However, it belly, multitudes of human seldom prevails over the minds possessing a singular supremacy of distractions. desire to learn and rise. Our 
Life today, is being spent on a apparel was an insignificant seemingly green expanse which part of this daily commute; our I call "graduate meadows"; companions and teachers, the These tranquil and endless primary players. A few "thank­tracts are spotted with deep yous", "excuse-roes" and a little and dark pits of work or bore­bit of patience carried one a dom. long way. In rain or shine, 
One is neck deep in them in doors were held open for all. the blink of an eyelid! There The atmosphere always pos­are times though, when you sessed a welcoming spirit. New (actually) wriggle out of them windows were thrown open and stretch out on the greens every day. The intermittent or walk around to smell the air. God involved in a silly love tri­routine life acquired an entirely tation of the occupant's state of laughter and the ever-smiling Times when you sit back and angle story. Two guys and one new interpretation. mind. There were flickers of faces of fellow "commuters," (try to) look at things from a gal or vice versa; come on, that The office appeared to glow light in the general darkness­encouraged and livened. different angle. Times when isn't life. even in this harmless incandes­strong and sure rays of hope With this new energy and a you reflect and catch up with Ask me about life. It is simply cence. It possessed an aura of among adversity and uphill bat­fresh perspective, I broke away. the changing seasons and tides work or boredom. My feet were hard work and perseverance. tles. The picture produced an Turning around, I faced the of time-when you put an arm a little unfair in that they car­The occupant calmly sipped his indelible signature on that building which housed my of­around a loved one and feel for­ried me too soon past her. I coffee, not noticing the by­"gray matter". I was mesmer­fice. My stroll had kept my tunate. realized that my recent stander peering into the room. ized by the sight and had to thoughts busy. I started retrac­
One day in the late morning thoughts had been unfair too. I The dim lights appeared to gulp a couple of times to come ing my way towards the build­hours, I silently strolled had evaluated and passed judg­serve the purpose of keeping out of the trance. I let go of the ing with long perky strides. The through a corridor, lost in ment on her prematurely. A lit­"unwanted influences" away. key bunch which I had been smile and the bounce had re­thought; staring at no one and tle puzzled and troubled I The table stood firm; an untir­clasping a little too tightly in turned. There was a new en­no where. It was not until I per­turned a corner. ing companion of the master. the past few minutes. It was thusiasm to work. I was ready ceived this soul sitting on the I was instantly bathed in a There was no trace of hostility. time to move on and leave the to return to reality ..... floor, that my thoughts began to stream of yellow light escaping The darkness somehow beck­office to it' s problems and solu­focus. I happened to notice the from an office door left ajar. oned me inside if only to con­tions. SUHASVAZE title of the book she read, Instinctively, I turned my head trast itself from the unsettling Now I walked out of the Graduate Student in "Summers at Hillshire Farms". towards the inside. The atmo­brightness outside. To me it building into the embraces of Aerospace/Mechanical Engineering She was completely engrossed sphere caught me and held my represented co-existence and summer. The sun shown abun­Off-Campus in her reading, oblivious to the attention. The dimly lit office harmony. dantly on me-a ruler of the steady racket of my boots. Ah! I struck me as a peaceful haven. Yet another person may clas-heavens, basking in it's blue 
CHARLES KITZ ALUMNI ANECDOTES 
Let ND alumni broaden your horizons 
This is the first in a series of monthly columns writ­rekindle. ten by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Alumni. If you Maybe you'd expect these friendships to be exclu­are interested in contributing a piece, please contact sively among your age group or profession. Believe me, Suzy Fry at the Observer or Frances Shavers with the nothing is further from reality. I have made the great­Alumni Association. est of friends among all alumni: male, female, minori­
ty, businessmen, clergy, teachers, entrepreneurs, 
Probably for most students, except perhaps seniors, whomever. 
being an alumnus is now only in the remote corner of The warmth and acceptance of all NO grads is quite 
your minds. Your focus, and rightly so, is on being a heartwarming. And I'm sure you'll experience the 
student and all that entails. Sure you have pressures same. I see it virtually every day and in virtually any 
and demands. But foremost are the great friendships, state in the union. I've traveled to almost all of them 
the good times, the crazy incidents, the serious discus­and the ND spirit is constant. 
sions, the quiet reflective moments. A couple of poignant examples. I recalled after the 
Each time you are away from the campus-whether '88 National Championship game in Phoenix, I was summer vacations or just a short break-you long to leaving the stadium and saw a couple of students be back at school. These are not only great years to whooping it up. One had a great hat. I asked to buy it (I live through, but carry the fondest memories through­love crazy hats). He said not at any price. As I was out life. walking away he tapped me on the shoulder and 
When graduation approaches you'll likely become asked, "Are you an alumnus?" When I answered afTrr­
melancholy, concerned these friendships will fade and matively, he said, "Here, you can have it free." 
these experiences will not be repeated again. How can Later that winter I as skiing in northern Michigan 


you maintain the closeness, the spirit of community, those special memories that are Notre Dame? 
The answer is the Alumni Association which has 223 local clubs throughout the country. It's your link to nurture the friendships, relive the memories, continue the service and maintain the values you now experi­ence. 
And the Alumni Association will greatly expand your Notre Dame experiences. You'll discover a special closeness among all alumni, regardless of class. Being a grad creates an immediate bond among all alumni and opportunities to share the Notre Dame experience. 
I can personally vouch for the amazing closeness of and ran across the ND Ski Team in a collegiate compe­tition. I invited the team to pizza after the event and we swapped stories for hours. 
In both of these instances we didn't know each other but the NO bond was immediate. In fact, whenever I never pass someone with an NO hat or shirt on without asking, "Are you a grad?" And we go from there. 
The Alumni Association is organized for you and your interests. We don;t solicit funds, but help the University and its alumni. We help the university through finding prospective students, providing scholarships, mentoring, etc. And we help the alumni through continuing education, community service, 
And as head of the Alumni Community Service Committee, I'd like to make a special plug for your per­sonal involvement in generous service to those less for­tunate. Most clubs have active service programs you can join. Or you can start a new one in which you have a special interest. 
So take the thought about being an alumnus out of the back corner of your mind. Put it center stage. Begin now to plan to be an active member of the Alumni Association. We'll not just keep those memo­
ries and friendships vividly but broaden your horizons manyfold. 
-

Our Lady's alumni. It has been just over thirty-five reunions, local outings, etc. Charles B. Kitz, Notre Dame Class of 1958, currently years since I graduated. I've constantly expanded my And ifwe don't have activities you want, just ask and resides in Orchard Park, Vichigan. He is director of NO friendships from people in their 20's, to people in we'll add them. We constantly reevaluate our activi­Corporate Planning for ChrysLer Corporation and is on their 80's. Each as caring and fun-loving as the next. ties in light of your needs. Our purpose is to serve you 
the National Alumni Board ofDirectors. 
Each with stories to share and common memories to and your fellow alumni. 

----------~~--------~-.--------------------~----------~~----•=r-=.-~--~~~~-~-~---~~~~----------------~------~----~ 



ACC~NT 
Page 14 March 25, 1994 
The Veldt and The Jazzhole: The future of R&B 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Critic 

R & B as we know it is dead. Although still topping the American album charts with the likes of Mariah Carey and Toni Braxton, those two along with other smooth-talking bal­ladeers and divas have been and will continue to sell records, but more often then not, their songcrafting involves nothing but a rehashed idea behind a rehashed beat, exploiting nothing new but their vocal talents. 
MUSIC REVIEW 

Now meet the future of R & 
B. The Jazzhole, a compilation inspired by four produc­ers/musicians and featuring a wealth of gifted guest stars, creates stylistic grooves that truly represent the limitless boundaries of urban music. While the Jazzhole takes place in a fictional club in the heart of Any Big City, The Veldt and their debut album Afrodisiac The Jazzhole, along with their guest musicians, take house music to a whole new level with intricate jazz motifs. hail from Chapel Hill, North 
Michelle Lewis and her Another new and very good beat. The guitar which follows "Drug Store Mix" which wasCarolina and lay down wicked amazing vocal expertise are in­singer, Rosa Russ, is featured and leads into "It's Over" is remixed by the Jesus and Maryguitar tracks over cleverly ar­troduced on the track "Gotta B on the track "Smile." Her in­reminiscent of Duran Duran's Chain. Their signature airport
ranged drums, percussion, 
Everything." After a crunchy terpretations of 'rap and song "Come Undone." A raw drum­guitar riffs are exploited as the
samples, and vocals on their 
sampled intro, the raw thump remind of Queen Latifah, as a beat ensues as Daniel's vocal psychedelia of their remix pro­way to an extremely formidable of the upright bass comes in, subtle wah-wah guitar fills the heights are mesmerizing, es­vides the best texture for thedebut. 
and then Lewis goes off: "Take background of the funky, laid­pecially near the dramatic fin­jubilant lyrics. 
The Jazzhole is the house me/Apart in pieces... " she back groove. ish. The time has come to set a band of the fictional club, and it croons foreshadowing her spec­Twin brothers Daniel (vocals) "I go to my sister 'cause she new standard for the music of R 
utilizes the talents of key­
tacular performance to come and Danny (guitar) Chavis be­understands/There's a real big & B. It is time to throw most ofboardist Warren Rosenstein, and highlighting the strongest gan the band The Veldt in problem with the brother man," its reiteration to the wayside
vocalist Marlon Saunders, 
track on the Jazzhole. 1986, picked up Marvin Levi sings Daniel on "Revolutionary and encourage those artists
multi-instrumentalist Kevin 
Through vocalists such as (drums) in 1988, and Dave Sister," an ode to the black who currently subscribe to its DiSimone, and guitarist John Lewis, N'Dea Davenport (of the Burris (bass) in 1991. The in­female. Its sampled beat and sound to improvise and goPondel, who recruit the work of Brand New Heavies), Carleen fluences of Hendrix, Prince, murmurs in the beginning about creating something dif­the rappers, singers, and other Anderson (of the Young Disci­The Family Stand, and various erupt into a forceful tirade of ferent. Two new CO's, The instrumentalists who contribute ples), and Caron Wheeler (for­UK pop bands are evident love; Denise Gross and Jazzhole and Afrodisiac, break to this fantastic result. 
merly of Soul II Soul), a new throughout Afrodisiac, exploit­Rachmanna Finney play a won­new ground and show a new After a welcome to the Jazz­groove is developing at the ing their own soul music with derful role as background direction for R & B. 
hole, Ahmed Best is featured on roots of female R&B song; these murky sounding guitars and singers in the song. 
"Forward Motion." Twisting 
and other vocalists are not con­searing, melancholy vocals. "Soul in a Jar," the most de­
Rob ·s rating out of
and turning its way throughout 
forming to what they have "Intro (I'll Say Anything)" lightful track on Afrodisiac is 
the speakers, Best's speedy rap five stars
heard in the past and are es­seems to be a testimonial to the featured as the third track on 
and well-written lyrics are sup­sentially trailblazing with the fledging R & B industry, as an the disc and then two remixes Jazzhole -three starsplemented by the stellar beat 
vocal highs and lows they cre­insecure couple exchange "I appear at the end. The best and a tainted trumpet, courtesy ate through the music. love you's" behind a sampled version of the three is the The Veldt -four stars 
of Disimone. 


Gin Blossoms flower into headline act at Stepan 
BYJOHN CONNORTON That's how lead vocalist the Stepan Center this Saturday Accent Writer Robin Wilson describes his at 8 p.m. at the University of band, the Gin Blossoms, the Notre Dame. "A big slice of American very same quintet who are cheese." playing to a sell-out crowd at On the strength of hits like 

"Hey Jealousy," "Cheatin," and 
the recent "Found Out About 
You," the Gin Blossoms' first 
major commercial release New 
Miserable Experience has domi­nated the airwaves on the way to a platinum record and 1.5 million copies sold. 
Named after a famous photograph of 
W.C. Fields' bulbous, veined nose after years of drinking, the Gin Blossoms now rounded out by gui­tarist, singer, song­writer Jesse Valenzuela, drummer Phillip Rhodes, bass guitarist Bill Leen, and guitarist Scott Johnson. 
The transition from a college bar band to a pop sensation was by no means overnight. Together for five years, the Gin Blossoms spent their formative years in Tempe, Arizona, play­ing the bar scene around Grand Canyon State, before being picked up by A&M released album Dusted. 
Tragedy struck the band in January of 1994 when former guitarist and songwriter Doug Hopkins committed suicide after a long bout with alco­holism. Hopkins was responsi­ble for six of the twelve songs on NME, including seemingly everyone's favorite "Hey Jealously." 
Whether or not the band will be able to match the success of NME without the talents of the departed Hopkins remains to be seen, but the Gin Blossoms, along with opening act the Screaming Cheetah Wheelies, are sure to provide a good time for 1800 lucky Notre Dame stu­dents. 
And for those who failed to get tickets, the Gin Blossoms plan on touring extensively this summer with the SpinDoctors and Cracker. 
The Gin Blossoms are making a name for themselves across America and stopping to enter­tain the Irish along the way. 
-~-----._..-~-­

--~------~---~-~-~­
----.,.._...--­
--------~-~ 

Friday, March 25, 1994 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD page 15 
Thoughts about Jesus rising from the dead 


Father Robert Griffin 
/Jeffers fo a Bonefy 9ocf 
Tom Snyder is a talk-show goofus who is on NBC Cable in the evening late and early. As a first-rate also-ran, he spends a lot of time being unhappy over his disenchanted Catholic childhood. M-ybe as a baby, he was left too long in wet diapers. Recently Snyder's guest was Bishop Spong, a heretical bish­op of the Anglican persuasion, who explained with great glib­ness how the earliest Christians deluded themselves into believ­ing that Jesus rose from the dead. The bishop then predict­ed that if Christians didn't start showing each other more chari­ty, their religion would not sur­vive the 21st century. Snyder, concurring, cited the example of the American-born Jew shooting the worshippers in the mosque at Hebron as an exam­ple of how tragic a fundamen­talist off his feed can be. 
In Crime and Punishment, Dostoevsky write a scene in which Raskolnikov the murder­er and Sonia the prostitute reading the New Testament together, and the picture is uplifting. Snyder and Spong, attacking the last, best hope of earth, are ugly, like the Spanish Inquisition. The pair of thein could be right, of course; may be Death and Taxes are the only certainly. Death is no stranger to anyone in this cen­tury in which each day is chaot­ic with wars, famines, pogroms, and genocide. The idea of Love stronger than Death is a bibli­cal insight of great depth, which becomes more credible when we read in the first epis­tle of John that God is love. 
How do we know that God is 

sorting through doubts a couple of thousand years old. Beginning with the doubting Thomas, the followers of Jesus have always known that the odds are against the idea of Love stronger than Death, and that the thought of Death reversing itself for any reason is an impossible dream. Yet the living Church clings to its belief in Christ's resurrection as the defining miracle of the Catholic faith, 
I don't fault the talk-show host and the bishop for failing to stand in the flow of grace and faith which would make them true believers. What gets my dander up is when the start sounding like the village idiot. The Easter appearances of the One crucified as the Lamb of God amount to a great deal more than an Elvis­sighting.Christ's defeat of the grave was a remarkable event seamlessly consistent with His remarkable life. The flowering springtime is a symbol of the hope men have of their own resurrection. 
As we wait for Holy Week to begin, we might remember that Christian theology offers us an interesting perspective b.a.s.e.d on an Old Testament idea: in the life of the Church, the memorial of the Supper or the Cross is "never a merely subjec­tive remembrance. It is a litur­gical, sacramental memorial celebration in which a past salvific act is made objectively present by means of a true symbol. This applies...to the Passover, as a day for remem­bering the liberation from Egyptian slavery. By way of this 

Transfer Students 
Applications for Transfer Orientation Chairperson are now available in the Office of 

.. 
remembrance, in each genera­tion, everyone is in duty bound 'to look upon himself as if he had come out of Egypt.'" 
Does this not mean that at the Good Friday liturgy, we partici­pate in a timeless event in the life of Christ? Is this not a remembrance that makes the thing remembered actually pre­sent? As a Catholic, attending the service at which the Cross is venerated after the Passion has been read, can I not say, "I was there when they crucified my Lord"? At the Holy Saturday Vigil, waiting in a darkened church where the altars have been stripped and the taberna­cle is empty except for shad­ows, should I not feel the Faster hope re-kindled in my heart when the deacon elevates the Paschal candle, and sings of Christ our light? 
The heart has reasons that the reason knows not of. The case for Christianity is stronger than any arguments that I can write, since I'm not a scholar. I would not ask you to trust the logic of my heart, since I'm not a saintO -ut you might consider this: of all the world's myths, only one stands a chance of being true, and that is Christian. If the Christian myth of a Love stronger than Death isn't arguable, we should con­sider becoming Jews, hoping we can get our names on Schindler's list. Love strong as Death is a Jewish idea, as I've told you before. May God bless the Christians and Jews, and keep them faithful to their covenants of love with the eter­nal God for as long as the world shall last. 
love? According to John, we examine Christ's life for signs of the Love stronger than Death. If He was not credible, we have no proof whatsoever that God is love; and so we're entitled to be atheists and agnostics disparag­ing the Christian hope. If those early Christians be not credible as witnesses to Christ, why should we waste our breath addressing God as our Father? Was Ethel Waters full of wishful thinking when she believed the old hymn: "I sing because I'm happy/! sing because I'm free ./His eye is on the spar­row/And I know He watches me?" 
Was Jesus just another luck­less Jew unable to get out of this world in one piece? 
Using an instrument of shame as His pulpit, He turned the Cross into an icon of God so lov­ing the world that He gave His only-begotten Son. Could the Buddha or Mohammed have done as much for the hang­man's noose, the electric chair, the guillotine? . One of Christ's detractor's said: "They should have fed Him to the lions. You can't derive much symbolism from mince meat," 
How did Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John manage to turn Him into the world's most unforgettable hero? Homer didn't do half as well when he wrote in the Iliad of Zeus. Of course Homer wrote myths, and the evangelists wrote Gospels, which are full of surprises that show God in the flesh is much more wonderful than we might have imagined Him to be. The Old Testament prophets warned Israel that Yahweh hungers and thirsts for justice and mercy. In dealing with the rich, Jesus-calling Yahweh His Father-was on the side of the poor; in dealing with sinners, He always favored the under­dog. When He was on the Cross revealing God to man, He per­severed in showing love for the executio ers who were causing Him pain. 
If the Gospels are wrong when they report all this, at least the evangelists have drawn up an excellent job description which God -if there is a God kind-hearted enough to become our Brother-could follow when He comes our way. If the New Testament should be a pipe dream, it leaves us with a pic­ture of Jesus as God with which losers like us can be comfort­able until the real thing comes along. 
Snyder and Spong seem to me like lightweights when they insist on passing along their own doubts to Christians who believe in the risen Christ after 
PART 3 OF A 3-PART SERIES MARCH 27' 1994 LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 7-9 PM SEXUALITY AND THE NoTRE DAME STUDENT ••.So NowWHAT? . How can we attempt to live out Christian values of sexuality and relationships in a time when these values are becoming "countercultural"? Presenters: Notre Dame students and recent graduates Each session will include: • Presentation by speakers or panel • Facilitated small-group discussions • Good food and drink -(Z\MPUS Students are welcome to attend all three sessions MINISTRY or as many of the three as they can.  

-
Friday, March 25, 1994 
The Observer •CLASSIFIEDS 
page 16 



Knight knocks 'eiD dead with annual stand-up routine 
By FRED GOODALL virtues of playing for Knight -one game and accidently butted Thursday, making light of the Knight said. fear him. heads with freshman Sherron head butt incident and the "I ran into a guy the other
Associated Press 

Wilkerson during another) have NCAA's television contract with day and he said, 'I love the way 
MIAMI 
made the coach's behavior an CBS as the cup of water he was you coach and the way your
Bob Knight showed up ready "I wouldn't know why. I 
never carry a gun with me," issue again this season, team given when he asked a tour­team plays, but you're abrasive 
to play the game. 

quipped Knight, whose leaders Damon Bailey, Alan nament official to find him and you're tough. I look at that,
The Indiana coach brought 
his stand-up press conference Hoosiers will face Boston Col­Henderson and Pat Graham all s'?mething to drink. and I couldn't handle that.' My lege in the semifinals of the said playing for him is special. answer was, 'You've never
routine to 

NCAA East Regional on Friday But when asked if worries been asked to.' 
Miami Arena 

"I don't think any of us fear that someday his image as a "When I recruit a kid. I say
on Thursday 
night. 
"I mean what am I going to Coach Knight. We just know bully might cloud his accom­'I'm going to be the most de­
and, for a do? If I had ever shot a kid I'd that he's trying to push us to plishments, Knight turned se­manding person you ever met
change, steered clear be scared to play for me.... I become the best players we can rious. in your life. I'm going to de­of controversy mean. who am I? Take a good be," Henderson said. "Cloud my accomplishments mand more out of you than look at me. I'm 53 years old. "Sometimes things get blown to who? My wife? She doesn't your parents, more than any
by having a lit­

tle fun with Who am I going to scare? I'm out of proportion -like the worry about it. My players teacher you've ever had. I'm the media. Bobby Knight out of shape and have a bad head butt, which was an acci­don't worry about it. What is going to demand you go to back," he added, pausing. "But dent. We all know what Coach my image? My image is pretty class. I'm going to demand, I'm
He preferred to stand, rather 
than sit behind a microphone, I have thought of taking a gun is trying to do, and I think damn good with most people going to demand. I'm going to but there wasn't a question he with me before. Not necessarily that's the important thing. As that are around what we do. I demand.' Now if I told them it to practice, however." long as we know that he's try­just raised a million dollars for was going to be strawberries,
wouldn't answer. Not even the 
While a couple of highly-pub­ing to help us out, there's no the Indiana library. Have any of peaches and cream, and now 
ones about his image or whether his players -three of licized incidents with players problem." you (reporters) raised a hun­we've got a lot of demands, whom earlier spoke of the (he kicked his son, Pat, during Knight was entertaining dred for anything lately?" then get on me about that." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
I like to play travel bingo and whis­ FDA SALE-INDY 500 TICKETS.  SABOR LATINO  -To My secret Admirer­ 
NOTICES  WANTED:  tle for long periods of time. Please give me a ride to the Boston area  GREAT 3RD +4TH TURN ACTION. CALL  Saturday March 26 1Opm  Thank you for the roses...l would like to thank you in person!!  
for Easter Break. Call Jim at  272-7233.  Carrie  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  People willing to spend a couple  x3521.  Club23  
ZENITH 286 Desktop LP, 20/40 MB  
SOPH. BUSINESS MAJORS  CO-ED SUMMER CAMP IN MAINE  fixed disks, 3.5" floppy, mouse,  SABOR LATINO  Bokll!  
Gain valuable work experience  seeks staff from 6-17 to 8-21to  modem, 14" VGA color monitor,  
Apply for Student Business Board  (2 or 3) hours Sunday a.m.  teach athletics, tennis, ropes cours­ programs+ EPSON L-1000 Action  Quotes and happenings from the  
Assistant Manager in the Student  es, rock climbing, backpacking,  Printer. $375.00 includes desk,  Key West "F" Group!!  
Gov't Office.  swimming, fishing, sailing, waterski­ shelves, and p-stand.  Jen -Hi. Pee Wee  
ing, performing arts and many  CALL 273-1984 w/ offer!  "Beautiful! 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8-You're  
JUNIOR BUSINESS MAJORS  standing in line doing nothinglll  more. Age 20+. Contact Camp  all beautiful"  
Gain responsibility & experience  Wekeela's winter office at 1-800­ Macintosh Classic, lmagewriter  SWM, 20, handsome, muscle  "Shrimp with heads" (and eyes &  
that looks great on a resume!  959-31n.  printer, system 7 and tons of soft­ bound, 5'11", 170 seeking a loving  legs)"  
Apply for NO Video Manager  ware: Word, Page, Excel...  companion during a roommate-less  "Spring Break '94...Ricks!"  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Pay= $10/hour. Please call  FOR RENT  $500 or best offer @273-3920  weekend (3/25-3/27). Anything goes with me in my Morrissey love  "Tag, tag"-T.V. music trivia "Look guys there's my carl"  
shack. x3650. Please call.  "Honda....red..."  
ILOST&FOUNDI  4-1478 and ask for Kyle. Many  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS  HOUSE4SALE 1.5 miles from campus; 3 bedroom  Top Ten from DC:  "That would be 3" "Spindrifts Snack Bar Room"  
(219)291-7153  fenced yard; very clean; great, safe  10. Let's make triple digits at Irish  Nicole's Sound Effects  
FOUND: Gold-like good sized ear­ neighborhood on Northwood Dr.  Times  "Please Don't get sick. 11 you do, I'll  
ing. Call x4358.  COLLEGE PARK  $48,500. Call288-7490.  9. I'm drunk, but I still love my boy­ get sick"  
people needed.  CONDOMINIUMS  firend  Ustening to your Smiley Face tape?  
FOUND: a really great watch in  -1/4 mile from library  2 BIKES $50. EA. & FAX. 272-6306  8. He was whooped, but he was in  "Cooookies, Ooooonuts"  
Debartolo room 155 on 3/21. Call to  Work in the Wild! Tour guide, dude  -New appliances  denial  "I wouldn't care it you died tomor­ 
identify. x3486  ranch, instructor, lifeguard, trail  -2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms  7. Julie, have another beer; we  row"  
maintenance, hotel staff, firefighter  -Washer & Dryer units  IMMACULATE 2 BDRM HOME  wouldn't want a black mark on the  Thanks for the memories! Love you  
LOST-LOST-LOST-LOST  + volunteer and government posi­ -large closets  NEAR CAMPUS. $29,900. GILLIS  Barry name  alii!  
Gold Bracelet  tions available at national parks.  -Covered parking  REALTV 272-6306,232-1466  6. The Stock Broker of Love  
Excellent benefits + bonuses! Over  -Security System  5. Tighty whities? Compact and  HAVE YOU WRITIEN THE  
LOST: MORRISSEY INTERHALL  25,000 openings! Apply now for  -Large balconies  For Sale: My Virginity to the high­ organized  MAYOR YET? COUNTY-CITY  
JACKET AT CCE. REWARD.  best positions. For more info call: 1­ Units now available  est bidder.  4. I didn't recognize you with your  BLDG. I SO. BEND IN 46601  
CALL LARRY 4-3444.  206-545-4804  Call Doug Vincent @234-3920.  clothes on...Chris  
ext.N5584  $660 per month .....Going Quicklyll ••••••••CALL: 272-0691•••••••u•  89 Tercel, 76K, AC, 2drlhbk,  3. That girl can play the tambourine 2. Was it the ironing board or the  TWO BORING, LOSER FEMALE COUCH POT SEEK NON-MAIN­ 
• FOUND BOOK •  SUBWAY is NOW HIRING  runs great, minor body work,  tan van?  STREAM AlTERNATIVE MOTOR­ 
"PEACEWORKS"  11 you are an enthusiastic, depend­ HAVE 2 BOA APT-LOOKING  $1800,271-0783  1. If you can't get tan...Get Tanked!  CYCLE LOVING MALES FOR  
found in B1 lot behind the  able self starter.  FOR FML ROOMMATE FOR 1ST  POSSIBLE GOOD TIME SAT.,  
Univ.Ciub call#821 0 to claim  we would like to talk to you. Flexible  SEM ONLY '94 AT CASTLE PT.  For Sale: Commodore 128 w/  top 'tone tour quotes  MARCH 26.1F INTERESTED,  
hours and friendly atmosphere. Call Jacki or Penny at 2n-n44 for  CALL 284-4045 OR x4394  printer and software. $250 or your best offer. Must sell now! Call  14 party on 13 sweet!  CALL JEN & JEN AT 284-5536.  
Lost: plaid folder in Madeleva.  an interview.  BED AND BREAKFAST for gradua­ Heidi x4046  12 justin is the boy next door  Well they blew up the Chicken Man  
Please call me if you have it.  tion and football weekends. 2 bed­ 11 secaucus part II  in Philly last night.  
284-4437.  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ rooms (twins) and 1 bedroom (sin­gle) with separate bath· 10 minutes  TICKETS  10 we never pet to cross-trump 9 we never got our cable guide  
WANTED  Earn up to $2000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ from campus. Reasonable, call 234-2626  FOR SALE:  8 embassy suites was 30 hours late with that wake up calli  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU! HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU!  
panies. World travel. Summer &  ONE PLANE TICKET TO/FROM  7 ben-i almost dropped my pants  HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY,  
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­ Full-Time employment available. No  REMODELED 1 BR HOME $400  KANSAS CITY OVER EASTER  but i saved them  DEAR JOE LOVECHIO.  
mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­ experience necessary. For more  MO. DEPOSIT REQUIRED CALL  BREAK FOR $80. CALL NICKY IF  6 then the chairs just weren't there  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOUIII  
0219  information call1-206-634-0468  256-91 09 AFTER 5:00 PM GRAD­ INTERESTED AT 4-1308.  and we could play  
ext. C6675  UATE STUDENT PREFERRED.  5 20:1 this skit bombs  I Desire Gin Blossoms Tickets.  
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Eam up  1-Way,INDY/ORUNAPLES, $175  4 dana, what are you doing behind  Call Bevin at X2569 if you can help  
to $2000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or  ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER  1, 2, & 3 BEDROOM HOMES.  Local219-654-7222 or 219-654­ that tree  me without ripping me off.  
Land-Tour companies. World travel.  EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO  NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE  3477  3 watching dana is more fun than  
..  Summer & Full-Time employment available. No exp necessary. For info. call 1-206-634-0468 ext.  $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ NOW & FALL. STARTING AT $225. MO. GILLIS PROPER­TIES.272-6306  FOR SALE: 4 Shawn Colvin tickets  watching the skits 2 dazzling display of digital dexterity from the euphoniums in melody  I quote John Lennon when I say-"I don't belive in Beatles, I just believe in mel" So get off your asses you  
C5584  ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL  In Chicago this Friday night  shop  walruses!  
OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN­ Moving home for the summer? Let  Face value ($25 each).  1 justin, i had to pull (blank) off of  
Jordan's Ford. Toyota, Volvo,  TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398  Hertz Penske truck rental help  First come, first served.  you last night-just kidding  BB misses his Mommy! :) If you're  
Mistubishi in Mishawaka is currently  extA29.  make the job easier. Call Kelly or  Call Tom @ 1-8775  driving to Columbus or SE Ohio for  
seeking a Campus Representative  Judie at 291-1414 for a quote on  Easter, please call Mike at 40664.  
to aid in the process of sales  Female roomate to live off-campus  our one-way unlimited mileage  For Sale: 2 Gin Blossoms Tickets.  Here's to battles of long  
throughout our dealership.  (anywhere) next year.  rates.  Call Mike or Steve@ x1579 &  Fought with golden arms strong  MORRISSEY LOAN FUND  
Commission based position.  Please call Carolyn 284-4356  leave best offer.  To a team at Notre dame  
Interested parties please contact  That won together medieval games  1% intrerest  
Mr. Jim Hoffer at (219)259-1981 ext. 354.  SUMMER LIFE GUARD  TRTLE CRK TOWNHOUSE AVAIL­ PERSONAL  May all ghosts be laid to rest Now that you've proved that you're  $10-250  
We need 1 or 2 fully-certified life­ ABLE FOR SUMMER  the best  Last Day to Borrow this year:  
guards for our miniature wave pool  CALL 273-6564 FOR INFO  So here's to the FENCERS across  March 28  
Need Ride to NYC; N. NJ  in Granger. 40 hr. wk. at $5.50/hr.  Math tutoring available ....  the street  
For Easter-$,Driver x4100  Complete season hours. Season  Senior honors math major will tutor  Proving to all that they can't be  Next to Lafortune Info. Desk  
5/25/94-labor day, 1994.  any 100 or 200-level math courses,  BEAT  Mon.-Fri. 11 :30.12:30  
We need a ride to MN for Easter. Will pay gas & tolls. Call Brian or  Weekends only alter school starts. Call Jim Wyllie 2n-1335.  Wrigleyville Apartment -Avail. May 1, Lg 3 BR in graystone two flat,  possibly higher levels as well. Times and rates negotiable.  Congrats to the #1 N.D. Fencing squad and to my best friend Ed  I lost my plaid folder in Madeleva  
Kory  new kitchen with dlw, new bath,  Call Jeff@ 277-5612  last week. Please call me if you  
4-3049  CARPENTERS HELPER: Seasonal  hardwood floors, easy street prkg,  found itll 284-4437  
position with large apartment com­ near el. WID incl. 1080/mo  Two people need a ride to the D.C.  WAY TO GO, CLAY COLONIALS!  
Going to Dayton over Easter/ Will  munity. Basic knowledge of wood­ 312/472-7775 Louis '84  area for Easter break. Will help  TAKE STATE!  Happy 18th, Johnny Hutchinson\!  
help drive,$! Jen 2801  working. Will train the right person.  with gas, tolls, and driving. Call  
Apply in person M-F, 9-5 to Hickory  Mark at 273-4865.  PRO-CHOICE?  Going to Columbus or SE Ohio for  
HELP! I need a ride to or near  Village Apartments, 4312 Hickory, north of Edison.  FOR SALE  Schlage,  PRO-LIFE? Educate yourself,  Easter? I need a ride! Call Mike at 40664.  
SAGINAW, Michigan for Easter  slept much lately? fallen asleep  then decide.  
Break. Will pay for gas and tolls.  1984 BUICK ELECTRA LTD.  during any phone conversations  Dr. Sheikh Speaks.  I'm gonna VOMITII let's party, U  
Please call 4-4110 and ask for  Billy Joel tix anywhere in Midwest­ LIGHT BLUE 4-DOOR  lately? Just curious.  Mon. 7:30  of I guys, Cyndi, Bre-sts, and 8th  
Todd. Thanks.  will pay $75per Stevex2009  CALL X3001 WI OFFER  126 Debartolo.  floor Grace. SP reunion!  
Popo  

Friday, March 25, 1994 The Observer •NCAA TOURNAMENT page 17 

Upstarts abound in Midwest 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 

Here they are, Tulsa and Maryland, the two lowest-seed­ed teams still standing in the NCAA tournament, underdogs intent on ruining some big plans. 
President Clinton may stop by Reunion Arena on Sunday ­he'll be in town for his broth­er's wedding -to watch his top-seeded Arkansas Razor­backs play in the Midwest Re­gional final. 
Michigan, the No. 3 seed, has set out since the start of the year to make a third straight trip to the Final Four. No. 12 seed Tulsa and No. 10 Mary­land stand in their way. 
"I don't think we should be considered an underdog at this point in time because we have played extremely well against UCLA and Oklahoma State," Tulsa coach Tubby Smith said Thursday. 
"Of course if you look at the roster and the talent Arkansas has, they've got some outstand­ing players, some All-American players. But still, in a tourna­ment of this nature, when it's one game and you're out, any­thing can happen and that's what's happened to us." 
The Golden Hurricane (23-7) upset No. 5 seed UCLA in the first round and came back two days later to knock off No. 4 seed Oklahoma State. On Fri­day, Tulsa plays the Razor backs (27 -3) for the second time this season. 
In the first meeting, in De­cember at Tulsa, the Razor­backs needed overtime to win 93-91. Tulsa played that night without its second-leading scor­er, Shea Seals, but Arkansas also was shorthanded, playing 
without  freshmen  centers  
Darnell  Robinson  and  Lee  
Wilson.  

Smith said the overtime loss served his team well because it showed the Hurricane it could hold its own against the coun­try's best teams. That attitude carried over into the first week­end of the NCAA tournament, and he and his players expect nothing to change now. 
"We really have our own ex­pectations, and that is we're go­ing in expecting to win tomor-row night," Smith said. 

And what of the president? 
"Hopefully he'll stay around and watch us play Sunday," Smith said. 
Arkansas had a bit of a scare in the first round. The Razor­backs didn't break away from No. 16 seed North Carolina A&T until the final eight min­utes. 
"You're playing ahletes against athletes," Arkansas coach Nolan Richardson said. "The name of the school has nothing to do with it anymore. Being ranked No. 1 doesn't mean anything anymore." 
Tulsa expects Arkansas to do what it did to beat Georgetown last week ~ slow the tempo, play a tall lineup, get the ball inside and hit the boards. Arkansas expects no change from Tulsa -the Hurricane like to push the ball up the floor and shoot from the perimeter. Tulsa made nine 3-pointers against UCLA, a dozen against Oklahoma State. 
"When those threes are falling, you're in trouble," Richardson said. "But when they don't fall, things change." 
Hurting Hoosiers hold advantage in history 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Among the teams at the NCAA East Regional, only Indiana gets an A in history. 
Connecticut, Florida and Boston College are all seeking their first Final Four berth. The Hoosiers have been there seven times, most recently two years ago, and they're playing in the regional semifinals for the fourth consecutive season. 
"One reason I came to Indiana is to do well in the tournament every year," guard Damon Bailey said Thursday. "Hopefully we can continue to play for another week." 
No. 5 seed Indiana (21-8) faces No. 9 Boston College (22­
10) in the opening game at 7:38 
p.m. EST Friday. Second-seed­ed Connecticut (29-4) plays No. 3 Florida (27 -7) in the second game, with the winners meet­
ing  for  the  regional  title  
Sunday.  
History  won't  help  the  

Hoosiers against upstart Boston College, which advanced with an upset of another tradition­rich team, top seed North Carolina. The Eagles are mak­ing the most of their first NCAA tournament appearance since 1985. 
"It's definitely been excit­ing," senior guard Malcolm Huckaby said. "The past three years we've been watching the NCAA tournament from our dorm rooms." 
When Huckaby and three other current starters were freshmen in 1991, Boston College went 1-15 in the Big East Conference. 
"I think we'll definitely be remembered as a class that turned the program around," Huckaby said. "There was a lot of controversy around our pro­gram. I don't think anyone believed we would be where we are today." 
Even just two weeks ago, the 
If you see news happening, call the Observer. 
631-5323 
21st Annual Summer Program ND-SMC 
Students 
LONDON  ROME  
May 18 -June 17  June 12-July 11  
Travel in Ireland,  Travel in France,  
Scotland and France  Germany, and  
Switzerland  

Courses offered in BIOLOGY, BUSINESS & ECONOMICS, HISTORY, ITALIAN, LITERATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, SOCIOLOGY 
Informational Meetin2 -April 18 
6:30 pm 349 Madel~da Ha11 
•Free Pizza• Past students and faculty participants will be present. For information call Prof. Black 
Eagles were struggling. They lost three of their final four  
games prior to the NCAA tour­nament, including an 81-58 thrashing by Georgetown in the Big East tournament. "That probably turned out to be the best thing for us," coach Jim O'Brien said. "We were  
mad and maybe even angry about what was going on." Regarding the Hoosiers,  
O'Brien said his biggest con­cern is their motion offense.  
"I told our players today that this might be the most highly intelligent team that they will have played in their careers," O'Brien said.  
Countered Indiana coach  
Bobby Knight: "I'm not so sure we're the smartest team I saw  - 
play yesterday." The Hoosiers have been ham­ 
pered by injuries. The latest casualty, freshman guard  
Sherron Wilkerson, broke his  
leg in Sunday's victory over Temple.  
When asked how this year's squad compares with his three national championship teams, Knight said, "Not very good. I don't mean to dismiss that so  
cavalierly. These kids have worked hard. They've been  
very tough-minded and gone  
through a lot of adversity with injuries.  
"But I've had teams that  
were capable of winning this whole thing. We're just not that strong. We don't have those  "·  
kinds of ingredients at this point." Connecticut, meanwhile,  
could be on the verge of its greatest season in school histo­ry. The Huskies came closest to  
the Final Four in 1990, when  
they lost in the regional final on  
a last-second shot by Duke's Christian Laettner.  
"A lot of people are compar­ing us to the dream-team sea­ 
son," All-American forward  
Donyell Marshall said. "What  
we do this weekend can sepa­ 
rate us from that dream team.  
"It's important to us to go to the Final Four, and we feel  
we're good enough to do it."  
The Huskies rebounded from  
a 15-13 season last year, win­ning the Big East Conference  
title by three games with a 16­2 record.  
"When we came to UConn,  
we said we wanted to make  
this a national program," said  
coach  Jim  Calhoun,  the  
Huskies' coach.  

284-4460 or 272-3726 




Stafford 
continued from page 24 

Holtz must be pleased with the confidence Stafford has shown early on this spring, especially for someone who caught just two passes last season. 
Both Holtz and Stafford know it i(l time for the senior to ele­vate his production. With the departure of receivers Lake Dawson and Clint Johnson, he should get ample opportunity. 
"I know I'm going to have to perform," said the Detroit na­tive. "I'm just concentrating on getting better." 
To be a receiver at Notre Dame, getting better does not just mean catching more pass­es. Stafford is well aware of this fact. 
"Blocking is one of the most important jobs here. If we (receivers) don't block, we can't 
run." 

To better learn this integral
-
part of the game, Stafford has to look no further than his for­mer teammate Dawson, who was considered to be one of the finest blocking receivers in the country. 
Dawson, along with Johnson, provided Stafford with great examples. 
"I want to model my game af­ter both of them," said Stafford. "I'd like to run faster like Clint watching practice yesterday, Stafford had the chance to show what he has learned. 
"I almost cried when I saw them watching me," an ecstatic Stafford said. "For them to tell me I'm doing a good job is something special." 
Come fall, Dawson and John­son won't be needed to tell Stafford's defenders how good of a job he is doing. Stafford should be able to handle that task rme by himself. 

Hrunilton 
continued from page 24 
That one hit was enough to spark the rest of the defense, as Hamilton and his teammates promptly earned the respect of the offensive line. 
"They (offensive linemen) have to all be on the same page to perform well. We've been playing together longer than they have, so we have a little advantage," a smiling Hamilton said after practice. "But when the season comes, they'll be ready." 
As the only returning full­year starter on the defensive front for the Irish, Hamilton will be moving to left end from his former home on the right side. Penciled in next to him are fellow seniors Oliver Gibson at noseguard and Germaine Holden at the other end. 
Because of their experience and Hamilton's leadership, the trio is easily making the .transi­tion to new defensive coordina­end recorded 42 tackles and four sacks, while he is best noted for his winning touch­down off a recovered fumble at Purdue. Riding these accom­plishments into spring practice gives him many reasons to be encouraged. 
"We've been doing pretty well so far," he said. "We're work­ing hard on our fundamentals." 
And there's no fundamentally tHamilton.  one han  better Brian  
• ••  

After an impressive opening practice Tuesday, freshman tailback Robert Farmer sat out yesterday due to a leg injury. He received the injury Tuesday, and it is uncertain how long he will be sidelined. However, speculations say that he will be back this weekend. 
Potential number one draft picks Aaron Taylor and Tim Ruddy visited practice yester­day to oversee drills. Ruddy was especially helpful to offen­sive line coach Joe Moore in of­fering pointers to centers Greg Stec and Rick Kaczenski. 
Head coach Lou Holtz and his football philosophy never ceas­es to serve as a model for other teams and coaches. Rep­resentatives from Youngstown State, UNLV, University of Toledo, and Villanova were present at yesterday's practice in hopes of picking up a few pointers. 
The Irish are planning on adding a few wrinkles to the offensive scheme this year. In the past two practices, the team has been trying to perfect a swing pass out to tailbacks Lee Becton and Randy Kinder with linemen lead blocking. In addi­tion, sophomore Emmett Mosley is the preliminary choice to replace Lake Dawson as the receiver for the infamous middle screen. 

and block and catch like Lake. 
The Observet\Jake Peters

If I can bring those two to­gether, l'll have some success." Charles Stafford is hoping to see With Dawson and Johnson Coach Holtz smile more this fall. 
HALL FORUlVI
frEPPIN& Our Wrru FRtENM! 
A Coming-Out Support Group 
Coach Holtz 
Speaks on 

Sunday, 27 March 7PM 
"FOOTBALL AT NOTRE DAME" Monday, March 28 
Contact: Courtenay Redis 634-2677 
7:30p.m. 

John Blandford 232-6332 
at St. Edward's Hall 

Sponsored by Those Gays 
and Lesbians You've Heard 
About 
C A M P U WIDE C A N D L I G H T 
University of Notre Dame 
March 29, 1994 
(Tuesday of Holy Week) 
Procession begins at 

8 
the Grotto at 7 p.m. 
Opportunity for Confession 
to follow at approximately 
10 p.m. in the Basilica





GRE£oy

GUARDING TESS 
MICHAEL J. FOX IPG-131 10:00 

SHIRLEY Macl.AINE IP<>-131 

Gather: Grotto 8: Jesus Comforts the Weeping Women 
Siegfried-Knott Hill Steps of Architecture Building 9: Jesus Falls the Third Time I: Jesus Is Condemned to Death 
Between Pasquerllla East and West Log Chapel 2: Jesus Accepts His Cross I O:Jesus Is Stripped ol His Garments
12:45 3:00 5:30 7:45 

3: Jesus Falls the First Time Front of Keenan-Stanford Lyons Arch II:Jesus Is Nailed to the Cross 
4: Jesus Meets His Mother Clarke Memorial Fountain 
12:Jesus Dies on the Cross 

NAKfD GUN 331 
Steps of South Dining Hall 

~TNINGd~ 

5: Simon Helps Jesus Carry the Cross Front steps of LaFortune Student Center 
THI FINAL INSULT 


(tMPUS

Law School Side Door 13:Jesus Is Taken Down From the Cross 
PAUL HOGAN IPG-131

lPG-131 
6: Veronica Wipes the Face ol Jesus Front Steps of Main Building 
2:00 4:30 7:00 9:30 12:30 2:45 5:00 7:15 9:45 

O'Shaughnessy at the Mestrovlc Memorial 14:The Burial ol Jesus 


MINISTRY

7: Jesus Falls the Second Time Inside the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Library Courtyard Adoration ol the Cross 




~.­
----------·-­
-

Friday, March 25, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
SMC softball takes Vernon Maxwell arrested Belles 
By MICHAEL GRACZ¥K Associated Press 
t-wo fro01 Goshen 
HOUSTON 

Houston Rockets guard By PATTI CARSON well. Defense was also strong Vernon Maxwell today pleaded Sports Writer against Goshen. The girls will guilty to a misdemeanor charge 
continue to work on both of­of illegally carrying a gun in his 
The Saint Mary's softball fense and defense in the up­
car. 

team was victorious once again coming practices to become 
Maxwell was sentenced to
last night , claiming victories in even more consistent, according four days in jail and ordered toboth ends of a double header to Cromer. 
pay a $1,500 fine, but he will
against Goshen. The Belles Anderson is next for the 
not have to serve any more timeknocked off Goshen 10-3 and Belles. 
behind bars. Harris County
11-1, respectively. "Anderson is tougher compe­
The score was knotted at tition than we've come up Criminal Court-at-Law Judge three in the first game until the against lately," he said. "Our Jim Barkley credited Maxwell Belles erupted with seven runs pitchers will be a valuable asset with two days for the six hours in one inning. during this game." he was held earlier this month "We hit the ball all over the Last year the Belles split two when he was arrested. place," said Saint Mary's soft­games at Anderson, so this As part of a plea bargain, the ball coach Don Cromer. match-up should definitely be a 
remaining two days were 
Offensively, the Belles hit challenge, according to Cromer. 
waived and Maxwell was required to make a statement
SPORTS BRIEFS 
that he was wrong to have a gun in his 1993 purple Porsche. 
''I'm a role model and it was wrong of me to be carrying a gun," he told reporters later. "But like I said and I still stand by it, I was trying to protect myself if anything happened. 
"But for kids sake, you shouldn't carry guns. It's not right. It's against the law." 
Maxwell was arrested March 15 following an incident that led 
SENIORS IN THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINSTRATION 
ANNUAL OUTSTANDING TEACHER AWARD ELECTIONS WILL TAKE PLACE IN THELOBBY OF: 
HAYES-HEALY, MONDAY, 3/28,9:30 A.M -11:30 A.M HURLEY BUILDING, TUESDAY, 3/29, 9:00A.M-11:15 AM HAYES-HEALY, WEDNESDAY, 3/30, 1:00PM-3:30PM HURLEY BUBILDING, THURSDAY, 3/31, 1:00PM-3:00PM 
to the discovery of a handgun in his car. 
He could have received up to $3,000 in fines and a year in jail. 
The demeanor of Maxwell, who showed in up court wear­ing a dark suit, multi-colored vest and a white T-shirt, was much more contrite today than his appearance following his arrest, when he glared and grumbled at the arresting offi­cer. 
It was Maxwell's third prob­lem with police in the past 20 months. 
He was arrested last summer for arguing with an off-duty police officer who was working as a security guard at a Houston nightspot. Patrons said he tried to enter the nightclub ahead of them as they stood in line. 
Maxwell pleaded no contest to a charge of resisting arrest and was sentenced to 30 hours of community service and a $500 fine. The previous summer, Maxwell was arrested on charges of simple assault at another nightclub. 
The latest incident occurred 
in traffic outside a cafeteria 
near The Summit, where the 
Rockets play. 
A motorist complained to police that someone driving a car matching the description of Maxwell's Porsche waved a gun at him after he honked his horn at the car. Houston police said they confiscated a .380 semiau­tomatic pistol from the car's front seat. 

track to Wabash 
By LESLIE FIELD Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's track team is optimistic about attending the Wabash Invitational this weekend. 
According to captain Katie Linehan, "We have always done very well in the past and are looking forward to doing well not only in relays but in individual events." 
It's no wonder why. In its last meet, the relay team con­sisting of freshmen Melissa Roberts, Erin Mellifont and sophomore Michelle Wenner took first place. In the shot, Katie Lalli and JoAnn Weed took first, continuing the win­ning trends in field events that started this year when fresh­man Paula Kivinen broke a record in taking first place at the division one meet at the University of Chicago. 
Because of the good whether, the team has been able to practice outside, which has " ... been much more enjoyable for everyone," according to Linehan. 
As the Belles prepare to take on Wabash, Manchester, and teams from Ohio and Illinois, spirits are up despite injuries. 
Kerri McKinley summed it up very appropriately with her outlook for the Invitational with, "It's looking really good because we were there last week. I just hope it doesn't rain!" 


This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
NOTRE DAME LACROSSE 


NOTRE DAME 
vs. 


HOFSTRA 
SATURDAY 2p.m. CARTIER FIELD 

FREE ADMISSION 
Sign up for your chance to win a Holiday Inn Escape Weekend at the game! 




r------------------------,
Opening Day is Coming! I I 
I

And we want YOU 
I 

to throw out the first pitch! 
I I Would you like to represent the student body at the 
I March 30 home opener of the 1994 Notre Dame 
I 

Baseball season at the innaugural game of Frank Eck 1 Stadium by throwing out the first pitch? ~ 
Just fill this out and return it to: ~[~ ~ Student First Pitch Contest t 
., Sports Marketing Department -JACC • ~ 
by 5:00p.m. Monday, March 28. · ~ 
Address: 
Phone: Class: 
Winner will be notified by 6 p.m. Monday, March 28 
~------------------------· 


George granted wish, traded to Atlanta 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 

r 
Associated Press 

ORLANDO, Fla. 
Four years ago, Jeff George wanted to go home to Indi­anapolis and the Atlanta Fal­cons granted him his wish. The Falcons came through for George again on Thursday, al­lowing him to escape his hostile hometown in a deal for three draft picks. 
"Maybe you just have to leave home to become the player and person you want to be," said George, who was only 14-35 as a starter with the Colts after be­ing the No. 1 pick in the NFL draft in 1990. 
The pick was made after At­lanta dealt George's rights to Indianapolis for Chris Hinton, Andre Rison and a No. 1 pick that became Mike Pritchard. 

This time the Colts got At­lanta's No. 1 pick in next year's draft, giving them the second and seventh overall, plus a sec­ond rounder in 1996 that could become a No. 1 if George plays 75 percent of the plays in nine Falcons' victories in 1995. 
"It was a deal that had to be made," said Bill Tobin, the Colts' new vice-president for pro personnel. 
It's a new beginning for George, who alienated both fans and his teammates in In­dianapolis with a still-unex­plained 36-day holdout last summer. He also alienated teammates by publicly chewing them out after team mistakes. 
He brings to Atlanta the last two years of a six-year, $15­million deal he signed when he was drafted and he joins a run­and-shoot offense run by June Jones, a quarterback guru and the team's new coach. 
"When I worked him out be­fore the 1990 draft, he had one of the finest workouts I've ever seen," Jones said. "I've 

watched him since and he still 
has great skills." 
But skills have never been a problem for George, who last year completed 234 of 407 passes for 2,526 yards with eight touchdowns and six inter­ceptions for a 4-12 team. 
What has been a problem is winning and a tendency to move in the face of adversity ­he transferred from Purdue to Illinois in college, has com­plained about his lack of· protection and last year stayed out of camp for reasons he still left unexplained on Thursday. 
Last year. after he returned to camp, he was booed at the Hoosier Dome, got into spats with teammates and refused to talk to all but one writer in In­dianapolis. 
"I was reading the Bible re­cently and I read that when Je­sus went back to his hometown, he wasn't treated well," George said. "From the day I set foot in Indianapolis, the relationship wasn't there. Maybe it was because they had heard the name 'Jeff George' from junior high school on. I don't regret anything that happened, but I'm glad to be an Atlanta Falcon." 
In Atlanta, he will become the No. 1 quarterback in an offense that features Rison and Pritchard. He also has the run­ning back he didn't have in Indianapolis in Erric Pegram. 
But he will have to adjust to the run-and-shoot favored by Jones and his new quarterback coach, Mouse Davis, designer of the passing scheme. 
Jones sees no problem. 
"You can run the offense with all kinds of quarterback," he said. "There's no question in my mind that JefTs a tough guy." 
~~~ ~~::!::" 
Grape Rd., Mishawaka 277-7946 expires 3131194 



The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
Notre Dame limps to Winthrop Invite 

Pitchers Miller, Brandenburger join list of injured 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
A banged up Notre Dame softball team (12-12) will trav­el to Rock Hill, South Carolina this week­
end to face Drexel, Maine, Mercer and Winthrop in t h e Winthrop Invitational. 


The Irish Carrie Miller will be with­out the services of senior pitcher Carrie Miller. Miller suffered a stress fracture in her leg and will be out for six weeks. 
This is the second loss the pitching staff has suffered, los­ing sophomore Kara Branden­burger for the season due to chronic shoulder pain. 
"Because of the injuries we've had, we'll be playing 
people who maybe haven't played much before," coach Liz Miller projects. "Our team is going to have to be versatile and play where they haven't had as much experience." 
One member of the squad who will be asked to step up and fill the pitching void will be sophomore Trish Sorensen. A walk-on addition to the Irish this season, the athletic Sorensen was originally tabbed to be an outfielder but enjoyed a dominating high school pitching career. 
Also suffering recent injuries for the Irish are freshman out­fielder Elizabeth Perkins and sophomore second-baseman Andrea Kollar. 
Perkins was struck in the face while fielding last week­end at the Indiana State tour­nament and will be sidelined for at least another week. Kollar fractured a finger severely enough to require surgery. She is out for an indefmite period. 
The line-up for the Irish will be determined as much by physical health as mental readiness. "With all of our in­juries there will be a lot of question marks," Miller ex­plained. "We're going to need big efforts from every one." 
Fortunately for Notre Dame, healthy and ready to play are leading hitters Sara Hayes and Liz Goetz. 
Hayes broke her own Uni­versity record for most home runs in a season last Tuesday at Indiana when she belted her seventh. She also leads the team in batting average and runs batted in. 
Goetz was the hero Tuesday as her sixth-inning homer drove in three runs to give the Irish a dramatic come-from­behind win in the second game of a double-header. 
"A big key for us is to con­tinue to hit the ball," says Miller. "Our success this weekend will depend on our offensive people continuing to attack and being aggressive at the plate." 
AYRES EXCLUSIVE 


CLINIQUE 
FREE 7-PIECE GIFT 
Yours with any Clinique purchase of 13.50 or more. It's ready for you in a handy take-along case. 
Your "Fast Friends" gift includes: 
•Different 
Lipstick in Rhubarb Poppy 

•Almost Lipstick in Fruit Ice 

•Facial 
Soap Mild with Travel Dish 


•Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion 
•Rinse-Off Foaming Cleanser 
•Plus--special extra--white terry Clinique Wash Cloth Offer valid March 23 through April 9. 
One gift to a 
••1 

~~\B*tu lmt""'





r•••r1•• 
Obs<IIMIIriEric' RuethHng Senior attackman Robbie Snyder will be looking to continue his production Saturday against 1Oth-ranked Hofstra. 
Lax 

continued from page 44 
Flying Dutchmen, however, feature lines that may change during the course of the game. 
"They are a well-balanced team," observed Corrigan. "They are good at every position. Plus, any time a team runs their midfielders the way they do, they are well-coached." 
However, the Irish have defeated Hofstra the past two years and are con­fident. 
"In lacrosse, match-ups are very important," noted Corrigan. "And we match up with them well. They are a team we are very confident against." 
Snyder agreed. "We can't wait. The game should be a lot of fun, both to play and to watch." 
Look for full coverage of the NOTRE DAME BASEBALL home opener in Wednesday's Sports Section 


---~~ 


Irish open MCC play against Explorers 
By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sporn Writer 

The Notre Dame baseball team knows about adversity, but this weekend the 24th­ranked Irish might just meet a team that has it worse off. 
Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference foe LaSalle hosts the Irish (5-4) in a pair of double­headers this weekend. The Explorers (1-8) have been vic­timized by the weather so far this year. 
Like the Irish, LaSalle did not get to practice outside before its spring trip to Florida and lost seven games over the week, but three of those games were decided by only a run. 
The Explorers' schedule has been virtually non-existent since then, with six games post­poned because of snow and two games postponed by rain. It was not until Wednesday that LaSalle finally played a game. In that contest, LaSalle lost to Temple 13-3. 
Kinda' makes the South Bend weather seem a little friendlier. 
LaSalle coach Gene McDonald has a simple plan for the 24th­ranked Irish: "Nice good de­fense for us and hopefully our offense will be good for us." 

Mental illness has warning signs, too. 
For a free booklet about mental illness, call : 
1-800-969-NMHA. 

Learn to see the warning signs. 
National Mental Health Association ~ 
They're Back ••• 
-
0 




z<:C 
:EN
ON 
CD. 
McDonald will be looking for strong performances from cer­tain members of his young team, namely, freshman cen­terfielder Brian Schaller (.250), freshman shortstop Bob Ball (.111), first baseman Bob Carr (.261) and rightfielder Doug LeVien (.333). 
On the mound for the Explor­ers will be Keith Gehm, Bob Bednarek, Frank Stassel, and Pete Wichterman, respectively. 
Coming off the College Base­ball Classic in Seattle, the weekend series is a question of mental preparedness for the Irish. 
"How do you go from the Kingdome to anyplace?" asked Murphy. "We have to. But I think we'll react just fine." 
Last year, the Irish cruised through the MCC with a 28-5 conference record including the tournament championship. Four of those wins came against LaSalle. 
Irish domination in the con­ference should continue again this weekend with its trio of hot-hitting sophomores leading the way. 
Leftfielder Mark Mapes found friendly confines in the King­dome last weekend, more than 
Stay at~I arufor Graduation 
r-llti.iJW 1994! 
at SAINT MARY'S 
*Now Available* 
• 
Kings, Doubles, and Suites • 2 Night minimum (May 13-14, 1994) 

• 
Advanced Deposits Required 


For reservations call: 1... 8QQ...94 7 ...862 7 or: 1..219..232..4000 

OMINATOB 
., ... 

~rs E'VERyDAa. ••• 
·3·
0··• 

SPECTACUlAR 
······... ···.··... ·· SUCES Orderwithyoor 
~~topp~. CNer2feet bLg. 
doubling his batting average in three games. The leftfielder went 6-for-11 with six runs bat­ted in, one homer, two doubles and two runs scored at the Classic. 
George Restovich has also had a hot bat so far this year. The designated hitter started eight of the first nine games and leads the Irish in slugging (.550) and on-base percentage (.481). 
Rounding out the sophomore slugging crew is first baseman Robbie Kent. Kent has notched a hit in each of the nine games this year and is currently lead­ing the team in hitting with a .364 average. 
Senior Matt Haas is also car­rying a productive bat these days. 
The third baseman is tied for the team lead in hits and has the second highest batting average on the team with a .343 stat. 
On the mound for the Irish will be senior Tom Price and the rest of the pitching crew and its platoon-style rotation. 
The LaSalle games will be the last before the inauguration of Frank Eck Stadium for the home opener next Wednesday. 

Senior Tom Price will be on the hill for Notre Dame against LaSalle 


ALUMNI WAKE '94 
Alumni Hall will wake their dead, we will sing her requzem. 
Saturday, March 26 Invitation Only 
62 Years ofunleashed Dawgs in the Pound 
D 
OMINATOll 
~rs 


SPECIAL 
CHEESE DOMINATOR 


$799 
EXTRA TOPPINGS... $1.SOEACH 
DOMINATOR DELIVERED TO STUDENTS ONLY 
( 
~~ J 

CIIIY-GIT PIZZI 30 lnches.. ~Thatsalmostayardofptzza. 
VZZid S,ONIWOO 

EXTRAS
TOPPINGS 

TWISTY BREAD & DIPPING SAUCE ... 99¢ Garlic Sauce or Pizza Sauce 
ONIONS • GREEN PEPPER • PEPPERONI 
MUSHROOMS • BLACK OLIVES • BEEF 
Available Upon Request 
HAM • CHEDDAR CHEESE • HOT PEPPERS SAUSAGE • BACON • PINEAPPLE 
COKE or DIET COKE ·~· 65¢ I can 1.95/2-liter
IDI~J Void at por1apotrtg stores orVy. Not vQid wilh any ol'ler after Pnces may vary Customer pays sales tax ...mere opphca~e. De~very areas -mted to tmLJ'e so!t dri~ng OUr dnv•• colT'( lt"lllon $20 00. 0\Jr dnvm ore nol penolzed lor tole de~veries. 1994 Soulll Bend fluo Corp lmled Trme oner 
--~---------------~-~ 
Friday, March 24, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
T Tu-:;,.-FAIL£!:> 
u~ .. 

A TEsr 1 
\ 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Carmichael's 55 Advance "-Buttermilk stealthily
1 Taj Mahal, e.g. 
Sky" 57 Quip, part 3 
5 Leader from 2&Chaps 62 Mavens Talah Minufiya 
28 Scrap for Rover 63 Attorney chaser 10 Braces 31 Overlord 64 Garden dweller 66 May, for one 
14 Spy in a 1962 33 Subject of exchange equitation 87 David Copperfield's
35 "Deep Space 15Wideopen 

mother
Nine" character 

11 "Listen up," old 66 Sheltered spot
36 QB's want them style 

&~Inspected
37 Quip, part 2 

17 Chuck-a-luck 70 First name in
43 Union initials 

equipment comedy 44 Modern site of 
71 Coaster
18 Defunct award 
ancient Tyre 11 Villa Maria 45Minute­College site DOWN
46 Lower zo Start of a quip 49 Mount 1 Jot 23Copied 51 Onetime soldier 2Final copy 52 Twaddle 
3 Repairer 
24 Davis's home: 
4 Censor, in a way 
Abbr. 53 Tram load 5 Vegetarian football game? 1 Family data 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Dungeonlike a By the item 1 Rides herd on 

n Writing on an 42 Partygoer so Chic 10 Pronoun In a urn 46 Ballet 54 Unwelcome wedding vow 
tenant? 11 MOMAwork 
30 Irrelevant facts, movement with 
slangily the toe 56 Decodes 32 Locale in a 47 Manhattan type sa Gone, with "up"
listing 
Beatles song 46 "Becket" 59 Fraternity
13 Make fun of 
34 Go soft co-star, 1964 60 Bring home 
mercilessly 
31 Disposable 49Word in a &1 Moolah 

... 
21 "Is It soup 
36 On the other detergent ad as Kind of school
-?" 
hand

22 Carnival day 28 Marcus Loew 39 Fish-line material Get answers to any three clues founded it 
40 Flying cross, e.g. by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­27 Debussy's "Le 41 More than . ) 
Jetd'-" aloofness 5656 (75¢ each mmute . 
.... 











NAZZ '94 
The Ultimate Battle Of The Bands 
STEPAN CENTER 6PM-MIDNIGHT 
FRIDAY MARCH 25TH 
ll'ftJDaCTUIIIOR~ 

Crazy stuff and more! 





SPORTS 

page 24 Friday, March 25, 1994 

Irish up to task against ranked opponents?· 
By PHIL LANGER Sports Writer 
The 16th-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team will get its chance to move up in the rankings and prove to itself and the coll'egiate tennis world that it can beat the elite during 


this weekend's road trip to face No. 4 Duke and No. 21 North Carolina. 
"I have mixed emotions about where we are at right now," said Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss. "I have to be extremely happy because we are playing the Allan Lopez top ten teams to 3-4 with an 
inexperienced Irish squad which lost five of 
their six starters to graduation." 
"I believe that we just need one match to get over whatever barrier separates us from the likes of Duke, Stanford and the rest of the nation's elite," he added.. "Still, a part of me, that competitor inside, can't help but think 'if only...'." 
If only fifth year senior and team captain Andy Zurcher, who is, after the latest polls, ranked No. 26, could avenge the emotional loss he faced when Duke's Chris Tressley, ranked No. 6, beat him and consequently sent the Irish to play for fifth place in last week­end's Blue-Gray National Classic. Maybe the magnitude of that upset could spark the Irish to rally around their captain and destroy the Blue Devils. 
Then again, if only freshman Ryan Simme, who dropped from No. 32 to No. 58 in the lat­est standings due to some unfortunate losses, could show the same tenacity as he did in 

A overcoming the pain of a terrible cut on his right thumb to help his No. 3 doubles partner, senior Allan Lopez, win their match against Drake in the first round of the Blue-Gray. 
Could that be what the Irish need to send themselves on a giant killing spree with the Blue Devils and Tar Heels as their first vic­tims? 

Possibly, yet it wouldn't really matter to this team, which has picked its game up a notch or .... two and demonstrated that its primary focus 
isn't acquiring individual accolades. 
The Irish simply want to live up to their enormous potential and, with that, shoot for a national championship. 

Hofstra visits Notre Dame, maybe 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team has come a long way in recent years. A consistent top twen­ty ranking, twenty-one wins in the last two years, and three NCAA tournament berths in the past four years. 
The 3-1 Irish are looking to add one more accomplishment to this impressive list-a victory over a top ten team. 
lOth-ranked Hofstra may provide such an opportunity at 2 pm on Cartier Field. On the other hand, it may not. 
A case of meningitis on the Hempstead, NY campus was reported to Hofstra officials. They are taking all precautions against the spread of the disease. 
"The game is in jeopardy of being canceled," said Hofstra's sports information director Jim Sheehan late last night. "We will know by noon tomorrow what the situation is." 
If the game is indeed played, the Irish will treat 



Charlie Stafford talks the game 
Reciever looks to make his senior year count 
By TIMMY SHERMAN Sports Writer 
Charles Stafford was having his way against the defensive backs in the one-on-one drills. 
He let them know about it, too, with some typical trash-talking. 
Lou Holtz did not take kindly to his loquacious style. "Quit grandstanding, Charlie," bellowed the Irish head coach. Despite the admonishment, 
see STAFFORD 1page 19 

The Observer/Kyle Kusak 

Junior Charlie Stafford lunges for a pass during practice. 

Hamilton key to success of defensive line 
By MIKE NORBUT Assistant Sports Editor 
In day two of spring practice yes­terday, the offensive and defensive lines squared ofT in a little preseason grudge match, with the winner to earn early bragging rights. 
With the loss of tackles Bryant Young and Jim Flanigan, the defense seemed to be hurting, and needed someone to pick up the slack. 
The answer came in the person of Brian Hamilton. 
In the drill's first group, the senior defensive end bull rushed offensive guard Mark Zataveski, knocking him off his feet and pounding him into the turf. 
see HAMILTON I page 19 

it as their most important game to date. 
"This will be huge if we win," said senior attackman Robbie Snyder. "With both of us being ranked teams, this is definitely a chal­lenge." 
If the first four games the Irish have played are any indication, they should be up to it. 
Offensively, the attack has been leading the way. Both Snyder and classmate Randy Colley have provided significant scoring punch for coach Corrigan's squad. 
This weekend, the Irish may need more players to step forward offensively. 
"We can't have all the goals come from the attack," said Snyder. "We do need the mid­fielders to step up." 
Midfielders such as Billy Ahmuty, Jason Pett, and Kevin Mahoney will have the added pressure of dealing with Hofstra's change-ups on their midfield lines. Normally, teams run three play­ers together on a line throughout the game. The 
see lAX I page 21 




