----·---~-----------------­

B150 YEARS~ 
MARY'S 
( I' I I I l, I 
'>t"'"
Friday, September 23, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 20 ~NOTRE DAME·IN ~ 
TI IE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Senior Bar: The place to be or not? 
By NANCY DUNN News Writer 
Have you ever wondered about the Alumni-Senior Club? Who owns it? Who goes there? What goes on there? 
How can it go from being swamped on home football weekends to being practically deserted many other nights? Why are people drawn to a place as graduates that few visited during their under­graduate careers? 
The Alumni-Senior Club is owned by the University and operated under the Student Activities Department of Student Affairs, according to Mary Edgington, Assistant Director of Facilities for the Student Activities Office. 
Although owned by the University, the club still pays rent. In the last couple of years, rent has increased "sig­nificantly," said General Manager Larry Briggs. 
According to Briggs, the money to build the club was supposed to be donated. The gift fell through, but the University decided to go ahead with the construction. 

The Observer/John Bingham 
The rent serves as a repay­

Alumni-Senior Bar general manager Larry Briggs and student manager Rebecca Benson anxiously await­
ment for the money it had to 

ed the Thursday night crowd. Senior Mike Bohmer is also a student manager at the bar. 
lay out, said Briggs. 

Briggs, a graduate student, spring. The three then hire a staff of sixteen bartenders. 
was hired by Student Notre Dame Seniors

Activities to run the club. He, along with some direction Rebecca Benson and Mike from Student Activities, hires Bohmer, this year's student 
managers, are responsible for two student managers each 


3:00pm 4:45pm 6:45pm 7:00pm 7:30pm 8:00pm 
the day to day operation of 

Friday September 23 
Social Gathering, Morris Inn Patio Glee Club Open Rehearsal, Crowley Hall Band Step Off for Pep Rally, Band Building Pep Rally, JACC Women's Soccer (vs Indiana), Alumni Field Volleyball (vs Loyola Marymont), JACC 
the club. Benson is in charge club with a fairly "hands-off' of rentals and promotions approach by putting opera-while Bohmer handles inven-tiona! responsibilities in the tory control. hands of the managers, said 
While Student Activities is ultimately responsible for the club, it tries to operate the See BAR I page 4 
Haiti's future discussed 
By EDWARD IMBUS News Writer 
Three of Notre Dame's top professors spoke last night on the complicated issue of the fu­·ture of Haiti and its new rela­tionship with the United 
•More on Haiti see pg.3 
States. 
Father Ernest Bartell, execu­
tive director of the Kellogg 
Institute and professor of eco­
nomics joined Professor of 
Government Michael Francis 
and Raimo Vayrynen, director 
of the Kroc Institute to form a 
panel discussion "Haiti at the 
Crossroads: Poverty, 
Democracy, and Intervention." 
The United States was 
tempted, as strong countries 
can be, to "straighten things 
out" if weaker neighbor 
nations fall into turmoil. Such 
was the case with Haiti, said 
Francis. 
Charging that the Clinton Administration had not pre­sented a clear policy on Haiti, Francis said that some officials within the White House were identifiably interventionists, especially when human rights violations have been recorded. 
see 1-WTI I page 4 


Professor digs deep for answers 

By ANALISE TAYLOR tern of females outliving their News Writer male counterparts regardless of the indicator of health," 
Exhuming and examining Sheridan said. bodies from the past are not During the summer, Sheridan everyone's idea of an exciting and co-author Dr. Dennis Van summer, but for Assistant Gerven, studied more than 200 Anthropology Professor Susan Nubian mummies between 500 Guise Sheridan it was a key to and 1500 years old. the future. The mummies were found in 
This summer, Sheridan stud­1979 as part of an archeologi­ied mummies from the Sudan cal exhibition along the Nile with a team of researchers. River in Sudan. The University Her goal: to understand why of Colorado acquired them females tend to outlive males. from the Sudanese government 
"We found a recurring pat-on permanent loan. 
Sheridan says the results of the study are consistent with male-female populations today. 
"We still see a pattern of women outliving men around the world," Sheridan said. 
The lab work, however, did not reveal why this is so, she continued. 
"We have yet to understand why, but it is probably a genet­ic component," she said. 
"I'm not sure we're (women) disease resilient," she said, but women outlive men regardless 
see MUMMIES I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, Septmeber 23, 1994 
I 
I 
I ~ I 
I 
I 
l 
t 
I 
i 
~ 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

What Retin-A can never conquer 
I draft myself for the same mission every morning of the year. Certainly it is not a plea­surable activity. but if I did not do it, I would be giving in to the thick, dark attackers. 
They never relent and, therefore, every day I must retake control of what is rightfully mine. When I go to sleep at 


night I notice the enemy has already started to creep out from the depths of the follicle. By daybreak, the black, stubby formation has encircled my mouth and the lower lateral areas of my cheeks. Then, I step into the shower armed with my Gillete Sensor and Edge Gel for Sensitive Skin. I always step out of the shower with a proud swagger knowing that once again I am a victorious, clean­shaven warrior...until tomorrow. 
What started as humiliation and led to aggravation, has now expanded to a day-to­day assault. In the seventh grade, the blades of mustache which fortified my upper lip caused me great embarrassment because I was the only boy in my class to sport dark hairs anywhere below the ears. Oh, how I longed for peach fuzz. Every three weeks, after carefully studying the techniques and styles of warfare from my father and my two brothers, I would annihilate the intruding forces with hie disposables. 
The high school years were difficult because enemies were coming at me from all direc­tions. Control for my face had now become a three-way tug of war between myself, the prickly hairs, and the Evil A: acne. Shaving the hairs irritated the acne. Fortunately. the Evil A was eradicated after just two years by the miracle gel designed specifically for acne destruction, Holy A, or scientifically called Retin-A. However, the hairs kept marching. faster and more abundant than before. 
Although it is a given that I will win the morning battle against the armed forces of facial hair the battle does not go without its casualties. Many electric razors have stopped dead in their tracks passing over my ragged cheeks. Cuts, irritated skin, and scratches on the neck are losses that I have learned to live with and accept. 
There are several days when I do surrender. I simply give up the fight. I look in the mirror in the morning and say, "I am just too tired and too old to keep up with my overactive testosterone." The whole day I walk around trying to convince myself that surrendering to the shadowy resistance of hair was an accept­able alternative. But I catch my image in a window reflection and I shudder in shame. 
Facial hair can be very appealing on some, but I am not one of these fortunate souls. I have experimented with the goatee and long sideburns during the optimistic years of my youth. For a while I thought I could maintain complete control of my facial hair and all of its movements. I was naive to think that my wild, raging Sicilian testosterone could be tamed. It would be like telling Hitler he could have half of Germany 
The resolution to the war lies not in liquid diets, vitamins. or Epilady products, (I've tried all of those already.) The answer lies in block­ing out the brutality and bloodshed of the razor to the face and pretending shaving is a fun, harmless, liberating activity that every man experiences most days of his adult life. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
•TooAv's STAFF  
News  Production  
Dave Tyler  Susan Marx  
Patti Carson  Elizabeth Harnisch  
Sports  Accent  
Rian Akey  Bevin Kovalik  
Viewpoint  Mary Good  
Krista Nannery  Graphics  
Meghan Smith  Roben Bollman  
Lab Tech  
Scott Mendenhal  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tom Lillig 
Marketing Director 

• WORlD AT AGLANCE 
Dollar mixed in quiet trading; trade, interest rates cited 
NEW YORK.---------------------. approaches. 
The dollar closed mixed against  Money-laundering convictions  mJ  convictions  The $60 billion a year U.S. trade  
key CUrrencieS in unusually quiet  Justice Department figures for money-laundering  0  •-fendants  deficit with Japan hurts the dollar  
trading Thursday, as persistent U.S.-Japan trade concerns and uncertainty about American interest  convictions and defendants: &:\ _ • • 1 600•-·fr."@r-l:d ~ 1 400 ' ~~'Jt);~ ~  - uo 1,571  1_546  by generating a steady stream of Japanese-held dollars that must be exchanged for yen.  
rates dampened the market.  :::  .  ...  President Clinton, in a meeting  
Gold prices rose on domestic  800  857  Thursday with Japanese Foreign  
markets but fell in Europe. On New  600  ,  •• ••  ·-~  :Jlb"'"···  Minister  Yohei  Kono,  again  
York's Commodity Exchange. gold  400  {"""'\  warned of trade sanctions in the  
for current delivery rose $1.30 to  200 "··  '------J  '  ;[]  absence of an agreement. Officials  

settle at $395.40 per troy ounce. 0 1987 -;;; ~ Republic National Bank quoted gold at $395.10, up $1.20, at 4 p.m. EDT. 
The currency market's sluggish tone was set in Europe. where the dollar ended mixed and little changed, as dealers lacked new economic data or policy news on which to stake new positions. 
Market participants largely ignored further signs that Tokyo and Washington are far from an agreement that would significantly open Japanese markets to American goods and services as a Sept. 30 U.S.-imposed deadline 
Is Foley in trouble? 
SPOKANE, Wash. 
He's a big man on Capitol Hill, yet House Speaker Thomas Foley could be in trouble at home. "I like Tom. He's done good for me," Loren "Kay" Morse said Thursday. taking time from listening to Rush Limbaugh to answer a reporter's questions. "I admire Tom, but I think it's time." In Tuesday's pri­mary, Foley got 35 percent of the vote in his bid for a 16th term, his worst 

primary showing in 30 years. The Democrat will face moderate Republican George Nethercutt, who got 30 percent, in November. Foley's largely rural, agricultural district is generally conser­vative and Republican. The speaker will also have to deal with the anti-incumbency sentiment that led Washington state voters to approve a 1992 term limits measure for members of Congress. Foley has challenged the law in court. Morse, a Republican who has voted for Foley in the past, has a "Defoleyate Wash." placard in her yard this time. 
Georgia teacher defies law 
LAWRENCEVILLE, Ga. 
A county school board on Thursday fired a high school teacher who refused to honor a new state-mandated moment of silence at the beginning of each school day. Brian Bown, who taught social studies at South Gwinnett High School in suburban Atlanta, said he felt the silence is an unconstitutional attempt to return prayer to public schools. Bown was suspended with pay on Aug. 23 after he lectured during the moment of silence on the first day of school and told Principal Delores Hendrix he would never go along with the law. The law. which took effect July 1, requires teachers to hold "a brief period of quiet reflection" at the beginning of each day in all public schools. "Brian believes you should get religion from the people and not from the government," Bown's lawyer, Steven Leibel, told the Gwinnett County school board. Superintendent George Thompson told the board that Bown was "serving his own self interests rather than those of his students." "I believe that he created an opportunity for disruption, which would again be created if he continued in our employment," Thompson said. Thompson also said Bown had a history of walking out of faculty meetings, and bickering with staff members and the principal. After the decision, Bown said some of his co-workers were coerced into testifying against him. 

Friday, Sept. 23 

said Kono . and . U.S. Trade

1990 1991 1992 1993 
Representative Mtckey Kantor 

APIA rom 
made little progress in a two-hour meeting on Wednesday. 
"There isn't much going on at all, and the market is lacking conviction. It's a waiting game," said Lisa Finstrom, a currency analyst at Smith Barney Inc. 
Finstrom also said some dealers, while still worried about a collapse of the talks, wonder whether a trade agreement could put a near-term dent in the U.S. deficit after Wednesday's news that the Japanese economy shrank in the second quarter. 
Miss America claims her title 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. 
The American Academy of Pediatrics, concerned about reports linking Miss America Heather Whitestone's hear­ing loss to a childhood vaccination, said the actual culprit was a bacterial infection. The academy released a state­ment from Miss Whitestone's pediatrician saying that the nerve damage to her ears was caused by a Haemophilus influenzae infection, or "H influenzae," infection. Dr. Ted 
·Williams said there was "not even a tenuous relation­ship" between a vaccination for diptheria, pertussis and tetanus and her deafness. Williams. who began treating Whitestone after the sickness and hearing loss, said she was treated for a fever and vomiting brought on by the in­fection with two antibiotics: gentamycin and ampicillin. He said gentamycin has the potential for damaging nerves in the ear, but he believed the deafness was the result of the "overwhelming infection." Whitestone told The Associated Press in an interview before the Miss America pageant that she lost her hearing when she was 18 months old .due to a "strong medicine" used to treat a high fever. 
Troops sent to stop looting 
PAPUA NEW GUINEA Police and soldiers patrolled the devastated port of Rabaul yesterday, firing warning shots to protect aban­doned stores and homes from looters as eruptions from two volcanoes eased. Police set up roadblocks around the city to deter looting and stop evacuees from returning to their homes, the government said. Almost all of the city's 30,000 residents as well as people from nearby villages fled early Monday when the Vulcan and Tavurvur volca­noes erupted. About 52,000 people are now living in makeshift shelters. Millions of tons of rock and ash have devastated the once lush. green city, which had been con­sidered one of the most beautiful spots in the South Pacific. The harbor was filled with floating pumice rock and other debris. A few residents who remained in Rabaul or have returned reported that some homes and businesses had been raided by looters. Police said the looting began as a hunt for food but soon escalated. "People were hungry and they wanted to eat some food. But then when they started to take stereos and other things, it was personal greed," Rabaul police commander John Togawata told local radio. Several truckloads of stolen goods had been recovered. The Australian Broadcasting Corp. said warning shots were fired over the heads of some gangs of looters. 
The Accu-Weather'" forecast for noon, Friday. Sept. 23. 
unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 
Pl~J$$U,. ~ ~ ,..F\
H L BESt [I!! 0 !Zl§ ¥ L....!~
..__

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CL.OUOY CLOUDY 
NATIONAL SUMMARY: Storminess will creep northward through the Northeast today. The strongest winds and heaviest rainS will oc:cur right ak>og the coast from northern New Jersey into southern New England. A pockel: of chi6ty atr will mova &lowly ttuough the centnd P!.alna. TllnY;)erab.LI'ea wtll not nse above the 50& in eastern Kansas and weatem Misaourl.  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Columbus  n 65 Dallas 72 52 New Orleans 81 78 57 Denver 76 43 New Vorl< 78 68 58 Los Angeles 83 65 Philadelphia 79 70 57 Miami 89 75 Phoenix 98 75 58 Minneapolis 74 52 St. Louis 66  61 65 62 72 53  


By ANITA SNOW 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 
The United States muscled toward total military control of Haiti on Thursday, breaking up the army's heavy weapons, guarding pro-democracy ac­tivists and giving U.S. troops more leeway to use force. 
In a methodical effort to un­ravel the 1991 coup that over­threw elected President Jean­Bertrand Aristide, American forces also planned to move into the countryside and take over the training of rural police forces notorious for their harsh repression of civilians. 
In the northern city of Cap­Haitien, Marines parked ar­mored personnel carriers in front of several police stations. "There should be no misun­derstanding by now that the Marines will intervene if neces­sary to prevent violence," said Maj. Steve Little, a Marine spokesman. 
Haitian soldiers, who have seemed overwhelmed with the swiftness of U.S. troops' arrival and increasing influence in their country, watched with astonishment as a U.S. convoy entered Haiti's heavy weapons depot outside Port-au-Prince. 
The weapons company played a key role in Aristide's ouster. To be dismantled are decades­old, poorly maintained heavy equipment including six V-150 armored vehicles, anti-aircraft weapons and heavy artillery. 
"We're still alive so I can't complain. I am very happy to collaborate," said a Haitian sol­dier who would not give his name. "If there was any sense in fighting we would have. There is no reason to fight our American brothers." 
On other fronts, however, the operation was moving much less swiftly and smoothly. Ruling Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras is balking at leaving the country and parliament remained di­vided over proposed amnesty for the military, a measure seen as a crucial step toward putting the country back together. 
Cedras and the other coup leaders have to surrender con­trol by Oct. 15 under the U.S.­Haiti accord, but he isn't re­quired to leave the country, as has been long demanded by Aristide. 
About 11,000 U.S. troops were expected in Haiti by Thursday night, more than two­thirds of the total planned deployment of 15,000. The ear­liest they could begin to with­draw would be after the Haitian parliamentary elections in December, Defense Secretary William Perry said. 

Asked about Cedras' remarks that he would stay in Haiti after stepping down, Perry said he believed all the coup leaders would decide to leave "when it comes right down to it." 
In an effort to avoid a repeat of the bloody clashes earlier this week between Haitian po­lice and pro-democracy demon­strators, American soldiers have been given more room to intervene in street melees. 
Army Col. Barry Willey, a spokesman for U.S. military task force, said Thursday that American soldiers should use their discretion in using force. 
Since tear-gassing and beat­ing people bloody on Tuesday, Haitian police have shown more restraint in dispersing crowds that come to the port to watch more and more American troops arrive. 
In Cap-Haitien, Haiti's sec­ond-largest city, Marines pa­trolled by foot Thursday and at dusk positioned some light-ar­mored units outside key police stations as a sign to local au­thorities of the U.S. presence and intentions. 

on Clinton policy 
By JOAN KIRCHNER negotiating team were Gen. Associated Press Colin Powell and Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman 
ATLANTA Sam Nunn. 
Jimmy Carter said Thursday On Thursday, Carter reiter­he keeps in touch with Haiti's ated that the agreement in no military leaders, and also said way requires the military lead­he is encouraged by the ers to leave their country. Clinton administration's endorsement of his role as a "Our delegation has never mediator in possible talks said that we think the generals between North and South will leave," Carter told NBC Korea. News. "In fact, General 
The former president said he Biamby told Powell, and I over­
has been in constant telephone heard it, that he would commit 
contact with U.S. and Haitian suicide before he would be 
leaders since returning from forced out of this country." 
the country Sunday night. He Carter also tried to soften 
led a U.S. negotiating team earlier statements in which he 
that reached agreement with said he was ashamed of his 
Haiti's military leaders, avert­country and its policy toward 
ing a U.S. invasion. Haiti. 
"That was not a very wise 

Carter said he spoke decision on my part to say 
Thursday morning with U.S. that," Carter said adding that 
Army Lt. Gen. Henry Hugh he had been upset over reports 
Shelton, who told Carter that children in Haiti were 
"everything was working out malnourished because of the 
very well." U.S. trade embargo. 
Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras, Brig. 
Gen. Philippe Biamby and Lt. "I was ashamed of the 
Col. Michel Francois are to suffering that these kids had 
cede power by Oct. 15, allow­had under our embargo," he 
ing the return of the country's said. "But I was never 
elected president Jean­ashamed of my nation, of 
Bertrand Aristide. Also on the course." 
631-6100 

Where your family can have 
Fun, Fun, Fun! 




Fun Pa11 
Look al whalone per1on ge11... 

• 2 Rounds of Miniature Golf 
•1 Gameof~ 
• 
A slice of Putter's Fresh-made Pizza and a Small Drink 

• 
1 Ride on the~ OM6n • 1 0 Game tokens 


When purchased separately this is a 
$14.95 value Your Everyday Low Price 

only $1 0·~!. 
Town & Country

Hours 
Shopping Center 

Mon-Thurs 10-1 0 2500 Miracle Lane Fri-Sat 10-1 i 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 Sunday 1-10 (219)254-01 00 
page 4 
Bar 
continued from page I 
Benson. 
The club is operated on a "zero-based" budget, said Edgington. Any profit is fun­neled back into the bar for necessary repairs and gener­al upkeep, added Briggs. 
"Football weekends carry us through," said Student Manager Rebecca Benson. But, she was quick to add "if we gear ourselves to football, there is nothing after foot­ball. We'd rather gear our­selves to the students." 
For some reason, Senior Bar has always been lacking in the image department. 
"It's a place where law stu­dents and MBAs go and dance, and dance bad," said Senior Patricia Gilbert. On a more serious side, she added " It's a place that I think a lot of people don't go, but they should. It's convenient and cheap." 
"I probably would not go there on any night but Wednesday," Senior Tracy Ferlazzo said. 
Benson hopes to erase such negative student images of the bar with drink spe­cials, promotional events like an 80's night, and bands every Thursday. 

With growing concern about the use and abuse of alcohol on college campuses today, Vice President of Student Affairs William Kirk said school officials remain "hopeful" about places like Senior Bar that afford the University an opportunity to have a "responsible role in the use of alcohol." 
"The kind of abuse that goes on in a place like the Senior-Alumni Club is proba­bly fairly less than what goes on in some dorm rooms and 
off-campus parties,"  stated  
Kirk.  
Senior Bar has  a  strict  

carding policy and infrac­tions are thoroughly investi­gated by the administration, Kirk added. 
Perhaps someday, the managers will be able to unravel the enigma that is Senior Bar. But for now, for students, the bar remains the place not to be. 
The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 23, 1994 


Haiti 
continued from page I 

International observers re­
ported such abuses in Haiti be­
fore being expelled earlier this 
year. 

At present, however, Francis said that recent events have ac­complished much. With 6,000 troops under UN command, half of them American, the chances for democracy to return -and stay-are far better. 
Conditioning his outlook, though, he warned that allow­ing Gen. Raoul Cedras, the mili­tary leader who commanded the coup which overthrew Haitian President Jean Bertrand Aristide, to stay indef­initely may lead to possible trouble in the future, and that the issue of blanket amnesty for human rights violators and coup leaders must be addressed and not left vague as it is now. 
Vayrynen followed the com­ments of his colleagues by stat­ing the need for international agreement on international intervention into a country and its aftermath. The basic ethics of intervention, he said, must be formed. 
"If you take the values of democracy and human rights 

[to be worth fighting for],then 
we must decide what means 
should be used to attain those 
ends," Vayrynen declared. 

While needing a better de­fined policy and vision as Haiti's future, Vayrynen also praised President Clinton for learning from the lessons of Somalia, in­cluding the resistance to hunt down leaders and adding to the overall mission after its under­taking. In fact, creating a sta­ble environment for democracy without becoming involved in the daily politics, as the US has so far done, should be contin­ued. 
Bartell brought the panel back to a humanitarian view by giving facts of the economic cliff dive Haiti has taken since the coup, such as a per capita in­come drop of 25 percent and desertion of Haiti by foreign companies. Aristide, he said, had stabilized the Haitian cur­rency and cut inflation to minor rates, and that his return, with assistance, may help Haiti re­cover from the coup and UN embargo. 
"Those who worry about the US getting another dependent have good reason to worry," he said. "We are now going to pay the price for the embargo we advocated." 


US relief forces pre­pare to leave Rwanda 

By ANGUS SHAW flights for Rwandan refugees in Associated Press neighboring Zaire since late July. KIGALI. Rwanda More than 1.2 million 
The last U.S. forces involved Rwandans flocked to Zaire, in emergency relief operations fleeing civil war and ethnic for Rwandan war victims will bloodletting that killed 500,000 pull out of central Africa on people in their homeland. Aid schedule by Oct. 1, their com­workers said more than 20,000 mander said Thursday. died from cholera and other 
Although the remaining 370 diseases in camps surrounding 
U.S. servicemen will leave the Zairean border town of Rwanda, Zaire and neighboring Goma. Uganda, U.S. humanitarian aid "Our mission was to stop the will remain available, said dying, to hold the situation long Brig. Gen. Stuart Gerald, enough for other organizations commander of the U.S. joint to come in. We did that," military task force in Rwanda. Gerald said. 
About 2,600 American troops Some 100 charity groups are and airmen have mainly pro­now working among the vided clean water and food aid refugees. 
were presented in April at the American Association of Physical Anthropology meet­ings in Denver and were sub­continued from page I mitted for publication in the American Journal of Physical 
Mu0101ies 
of whether they live in an im­
Anthropology.
poverished country or an 
Their research was pub­
industrial country, she contin­
lished in magazine USA Today
ued. 
and has appeared CNN,
Results of a skeletal analysis according to Sheridan. 



· plY
...stD]; st'

the ue · 
Voted #1 in Michiana 20 TANS ALMOST FREE 
WITH THIS ADI 
FOR A VERY LIMITED TIME! 
expries Oct. 7. 1994 
CALL TODAY 272-7653 

• SECURITY BEAT 
Mon., Sept. 19th 

10:23 a.m. Security responded to a suspicious person complaint at Sacred Heart Church. The man was identified and escorted off campus. 
11:27 p.m. A Walsh Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of injury sustained during a fall. 
Tues., Sept. 20th 

1:45 p.m. A University employee re­ported the theft of his parl<ing decal from his vehicle while parl<ed on campus. 
2:35 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of his student football tickets and money from his unlocked room. 
3:46 p.m. A Howard Hall resident re­ported the theft of money from her book­bag while at the South Dining Hall. 
9:20 p.m. Security arrested a Mishawaka resident at the J.A.C.C. for trespassing on University property. 
Weds., Sept. 21st 

2:10p.m. A Knott Hall resident re­ported the theft of her bike from the Knott Hall bike rack. 
3:10 p.m. An off-campus student re­ported the theft of his bookbag from the bookstore. 
7:07 p.m. Security arrested a South Bend resident for driving while intoxicated on U.S. 33 near Douglas Road. 
u•e 'are 1--.air 



271-7674 
1811 South Bend Ave. 

FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD. 23 UNMRSITY COMMONS. SOUTH BEND, IN 
Professional Hair Care Services 

GRAPE & EDISON 




THON 
2 miles East of Campus The Fighting Irish Road-trippe~~~,Hr_.!:~-~.9.~~!~~~-:_Q,Pr~~--~~-~Q!!_~--,
r----Four-Wiieel ---, r---Fueri~fectioii Oil Change Car Wash
I I 
Alignment Cleaner up to 4 quarts 
$15.95 $1 Off
$49.95 $49.95 
expires 9/30/94 expires 9/30/94 expires 10/30/94 with any purchase 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~::::::::;::::::::::::::, r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,r:::::::::::::::::::::::,
B1gBag30 Quart 10 Pound 2-12 Packs 
Seyfert's Chips 

Coolers Bag of lee of Coke 

$1.99
I 

1 II

$1.99 99¢ $5.99
I 
I 

I was $2.79 : :
L-----------------------L-----------------------L-----------------------JL----------------------­
2 Liters of Pepsi Still only 99¢ Propane Available For All Gas Grills & R.V.'s 10% DISCOUNT ON ALL SERVICE WORK WITH STUDENT ID 

The Observer • NEWS

Friday, September 23, 2994 
J-Board lays down the law 
BY MYRNA MALONEY Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Community violations com­mitted on campus at Saint Mary's College which generally involve the visitation policy, noise and alcohol are heard by the Student Judicial Board, ac­cording to Shea Powell, McCandless Hall Director and an administrative advisor on the Board. 
The hearing board, which meets weekly to discuss recent violations which directly affect the student community, may consist of eight to ten students, has two administrative advisors and is overseen by Suzie Orr, Director of Residence Life and 
Housing, Powell said. 
"When a Resident Advisor (RA) learns of a policy which has been violated by an on­campus resident, that RA is re­quired to fill out an incident re-
Onental Garden~.·~_~":
Restaurant ~,){<$" 

Located on the North Side of Sam's Club in Willshire Plaza, Mishawaka 

Dine-In or Open Mon-Fri Carry Out 11-8 
273-4290 Sat 4-8 
Closed Sunday 
All food cooked in Heart Healthy Canola Oil NoMSG 


Full Chinese menu plus a select of Japanese and Korean appetizers. 
Accept Visa. Am. Ex. MC. and Discover 

r-----------­
: 15% OFF 
1 When you show your 
: STUDENTID 
L-~~~~~~~~:~·­
port and submit it to her hall director. The director then reviews it and will submit the report to the Student Judicial Board at her discretion," Powell said. 
"The student in question ap­pears before the Board which decides by general consensus what type of sanctions to im­pose on that student," she con­tinued. 
"One type of sanction con­
sidered classifies as educational 
and may involve the violator in 
a one on one interview with a 
member of Saint Mary's secu­
rity or a conference with her 
RA," Powell said. 
Applications are currently 
being accepted for positions on 
Board, according to Powell. 
All Saint Mary's students living 
on campus are encouraged to 
apply and may pick up applica­
tions at all residence hall front desks, according to Anne Grimm, student co-chair of the Board. 

"The completed applications must be turned in by Sept. 30 and will be reviewed by the five officers. Applicants will be in­terviewed and those selected will attend two training ses­sions prior to attending hear­ings," Grimm said. 
"The Student Judicial Board 

is a good thing to get involved 
with early on and we are en­
couraging freshman to apply," 
Grimm continued. 
"One thing I fmd interesting 

about working on the Board is 
in observing how students from 
each class with various majors 
think in terms of examining a 
problem and reaching a deci­
sion that will affect a student in 
her everyday life. It is a great 
activity to get involved with," 
said Brandee Carlson, co-chair­
person of the Board. 

Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 
*Airfares  Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates.  
Low airfares to Europe.  
*Rail Passes  Rail Passes issued in our office!  
No service fee!  
Timetables, prices, tickets available!  
*Car Rentals  Discounted car rentals!  
Available in all European Countries!  
*Experience  Over 20 years experience working with  
Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students  
and faculty travelling to Europe.  

We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus­219 271-4880 

Setting Up to Get Down 
Crew members set the stage with equipment and lighting devices before the Travis Tritt concert last 

De Cuellar runs in Peru 
By LYNN MONAHAN Associated Press 
LIMA, Peru 

Former U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar officially entered the presidential campaign Thursday, ending months of speculation that has billed him as the top challenger to President Alberto Fujimori. 
Speaking to a crowd of sup­porters in Lima, Perez de Cuellar said he would be an in­dependent candidate in next year's election. He acknowl­edged he lacked resources or a power base but added: "Power and money do not buy con­sciences." 
"Peru needs union to assure a prosperous future not only for a few but for all Peruvians. Thousands of countrymen that I have met in my extensive travels believe that I can assure this unity," he said. 
The 74-year-old career 

diplomat has been stumping 
around Peru's Andean high­
lands, Amazon jungle and 
desert Pacific coast, criticizing 
Fujimori for not paying atten­
tion to the country's social 
needs. 
Perez de Cuellar served two 

terms as U.N. secretary be­
tween 1982 and 1991. 
Although Fujimori has not 

yet announced his candidacy, 
he is expected to seek a second 
five-year term in elections 
scheduled for April 9. 
The most recent poll, by the 

respected polling organization 
Apoyo, showed Fujimori easily 
defeating Perez de Cuellar if 
the election were held now. 
Other challengers include 

Lima Mayor Ricardo Belmont 
and First Lady Susana Higuchi, 
who last week said she would 
challenge her husband for his 
job. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer 



631-5323 

page 6 The Observer • THE POPE'S FAILING HEALTH Friday, September 23, 1994 
Pope cancels US visit, raising health questions 


News 
up~.ets)iiik:yb ,g;;; 

catholics· 
By DA.VJQ: BRK~GS f'!tc 
Associated PleSS 
· 
For Pope John Paul 11, the 
cancellation of-his U.S, viSit 
this fall means a lost oppor­
tunity to bring his crusade 
against abortion and 
euthanasia to the.J,inited 
Nations · · duririg the 
InternationalYear of the 
Family. 
For Roman Catholic 
churches in the Northeast, it 
means tens of thousands of 
parishioners will have to 
wait another year to see the 
head of their faith. 
Six~yea:r·old Kristina 
Scarlotta of New York City 
cried when sbe he~rd the 
news. 
"My daughter·was ge~ting 
ready for school and saw it 
frrst and sta.rted·to CfY.fin4 ----~­
sat there and .cried witli 
By VICTOR L. SIMPSON 
Associated Press 

VATICAN CITY 
Health problems have finally slowed down history's most traveled pope. 
Pope John Paul II on Thursday called off his trip to the United States, capping months of upbeat official re­ports amid rumors that the Pontiff was ailing. 
The Vatican said the 74-year­old pope needs more time to recover from hip-replacement surgery following a fall in his bathroom April 29. The pope was due to leave Oct. 20 for a visit to the United Nations in New York; Yonkers, N.Y.; Newark, N.J., and Baltimore. 
Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro said the pope had not fully recovered from the fall and needs further physical therapy. 
"It's a question of mobility, not health," Navarro said, adding that the pope's sched­uled trip to Asia in January was still on. 
The Vatican has repeatedly said the pope's health is good, expressing dismay over alarms in the media that he suffered from Parkinson's disease or other serious illnesses. 
John Paul was an extremely vigorous 58 when elected in 1978 by Roman Catholic cardi­nals as the first Polish pope. He was wounded in an assassina­tion attempt on May 13, 1981, but eight months later was traveling the world again. 
In recent years, his medical problems have increased. Doctors removed what they said was a benign intestinal tumor two years ago. He also broke his shoulder in a fall last Nov. 11. 
Describing the pope as disap­pointed, Navarro said John Paul intends to make the trip to the United States in November 1995 to coincide with the 50th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. 
But even the rescheduling was little consolation for many of John Paul's American follow­ers. The Pople had planned to bring his crusade against abor­tion and euthanasia to the United Nations during his U.S. trip. 
"I don't mean to sound self­ish, but that's next year. If you're looking for some peace in your turbulent world right now that's another year you'll have to wait for that blessing," said Geri LaGrua, 41, an exer­cise physiologist from New York City who had planned her family's entire weekend around the papal visit. 
"I feel very bad. Everybody was expecting him to come to New Jersey," said the Rev. Raymond Bianchi, rector of Saint Mary's Cathedral in Trenton, N.J. "We never got to see him." 
During recent public appear­ances, John Paul has been walking with a cane and has looked frail and tired. Vatican insiders say he has become in­creasingly frustrated over the pace of recovery. and aides have been keeping reporters and photographers at ever greater distances. 
Such is the climate of uncer­tainty surrounding the pope's condition, that when a Polish cardinal drove into the Vatican around 5 a.m. earlier this month, it set off rumors that the end had come. 

SOCIAL JUSTICE FORUM CHARITY g,HOLE GOLF SCRAMBLE 
Entire Notre Dame Community Welcome at ND Campus Golf Course Monday, September 26 
Tee times between 3 p.m. & 5:30p.m. Register in Law School Lounge between 12 p.m. & 1 p.m., Thursday, Friday & Monday 
Entry Fee: Prizes $10-with Golf Season Pass $15-without Golf Season Pass Awarded!! 


Meet Author 
Murray Sperber 
Friday, Sept. 23rd 2 to 4 Saturday, Sept. 24th 
10;11 :30 

Will Autograph His Book 


''Shake Down the Thunder'' 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Store Hours Friday, Sept. 23rd 9 to 7 Saturday, Sept. 24th 9 to 7 
her-~·· said .het .mother. 
iThere*' cb,oking bac~tears again:"' "l cried for her because she was so excited about the visit.~' .. , I know 
tJ:t,ey said_next year,.~n~t. 
year is a long way pff (I child.'' ___..-•.•--•-_ ­The 74~yeaf:;'ol 
Nations in Yonkers; Newark, . Baltimore. · 
Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro said Thursday the pope called otT the trip because he had not fully recovered from a falUn April in which he broke his leg. 
The Vatican said the pope intends to make a trip to the United StatM in November 1995 to coincide with the 50th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations; A papal trip to Asia scheduled in January is still on. 
Both the United Nations and the Catholic Church ,havfFdeclared ··1994 the International Year of the Family. The pope had hoped -to use the U.N. visit as a 
. worldwide forum to expand On issues such as abortion and contraception that the Vatican battled over at the Cairo population summit earlier this month. 
L•: The pope; who is prepar.;; ing a new encyclical for thiS _-.year on ~orti()!l 11n othfl.r "sanctity ot' urt~~· t}s. rega.r.~s the church's positipn. 
---on abortion, divorce and sex~ ual morality as under attack jp the United States. _.-. LA+ -._­' . But his remarks may n9t . 
get the same attention nex:t year, so long after the Cairo conference; 
jfu\·"'They would have.been heard within that context of heightened inteie$t and heightened publicitY.~~· ·said 
>1o.llu :ws~~ .. Q:'m:qr~l:theo at Catholic Uni America. 
>--::~).;;~n&n<Mt·' :·~·=-====.=::i:;·, .::,,A(·.· ,. =}:\ 
Diocese~'lii the three states Jiad made -., ext~nsi\.-e preparations for s~lldium .~asses, youth rallies and 
parades. 2'; .,. 

-~~-~-·---··-· -----~-----­
. --------------~------~ 

Friday, September 23, 1944 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Crime, riots rock Honduras 
By FREDDY CUEVAS 
Associated Press 
TEGUCIGALPA,Honduras 

President Carlos Roberto Reina called army troops into the streets Thursday to quell riots over rising prices and es­calating crime. 
Some 400 people protesting food price hikes started a ram­page through the capital Wednesday, clashing with po-
END OF THE INNOCENCE: 

rary action," until the govern­ment presents a plan to fight rising crime in the Central American country. 
It took police four hours to disperse rioters with tear gas on Wednesday. 
Now the army, navy and air force will all join efforts to con­trol the crime wave, said Gen.

;,., .··•·· 
Luis Alonso Discua, head of the armed forces.

Hey look! The "LUSH...OUS" 
Prices for basic goods includ­ing corn, milk, coffee, eggs,
Cheryl Lehner is 21! 
flour and sugar have risen by more than 300 percent over the

Happy Birthday-Love, Briggs, Vooch & Wong 
past three weeks. 
The capital also suffered ra­tioning of electricity that brought daily blackouts and in­creased tension this summer. 
An estimated 3,500 people nationwide have been killed in a rising tide of violence this year, and 2,500 have been injured in escalating robberies and bur­glaries. 
The president's decision comes as the Honduran military faces a severe credibility crisis. The military governed Honduras for almost 20 years between 1963 and 1981, over­throwing two democratically elected presidents. Today it is accused of wide-spread corrup­tion, human rights abuses and involvement in lucrative busi­ness deals. 


South Bentl,s New Dairy Queen r® "A fun place to be on St. Rd. 23!" St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood Near Martin's Small Blizzard or Breezer Double Burgers1 ! now Sie1; on~ ·. ,99, from 9/6-9/25 • for all of Septembe. f$f0 t>FF1~K~~~1f~Q¢~Ff1 any Royal Treat I 299I (Made with Dairy Queen Soft Serve or Yogurt) I II G "II d ch0 k II Banana Split II II rl e IC en I Peanut Buster Parfait S d • hI Hot Fudge Brownie Delight II .II an WIC.I Nutty Double Fu..I Soft Serve Yogu • • Not valid with any other offe . • II Not valid with any other offer. II Not valid with any other offer. I Umit 1. Good at St Rd. 23 Only. I L Umit 2. Good at St Rd. 23 Only. .J L Umit 2. Good at St Rd. 23 Only. .JL _. ------­------­ 

lice and soldiers. At least 10 people were injured. 
"Over the next few hours you will see the military presence in the streets and the poor neigh­borhoods to show that there is a concern and commitment on the part of the government to pro­tect citizens, to protect goods and to stamp out crime," Reina told reporters. 
He said the army presence on the streets would be "a tempo-

Plague returns to _India, thousands flee 
By THOMAS WAGNER 
Associated Press 
NEW DELHI, India 
Plague has returned to India after a three-decade absence. Spread by fleas from infected rats, the disease has killed at least 24 people and is threaten­ing to move to a major city. 
Bubonic plague, which rav­aged 14th-century Europe, was first detected last month in the southern state of Maharashtra. Since then, possibly a more fa­tal strain of the disease has erupted in the western city of Surat. 
The outbreak in Surat, which is choked with slums and open sewers, has killed at least 24 people, a health commissioner said Thursday. More than 100,000 people have fled in panic, Press Trust of India news agency said. 
The news agency said offi­cials have sealed roads out of affected neighborhoods, but people were still sneaking out. The government has closed schools, colleges, theaters and parks for a week to halt the dis­ease's spread. Unconfirmed reports put the death toll in the city at as high as 60, the United News of India news agency reported. 
The outbreak has troubled 
health authorities in Bombay, a 
city of 12.5 million people just 
160 miles south of Surat. 
Bombay authorities ordered all 
hospitals in four districts neigh­
boring Surat to stock up on 
antibiotics. 
Bombay officials urged bus 
and railroad officials in Gujarat 
to prevent a mass exodus from 
Surat, fearing most of them 
would head south to western 
India's largest city. 
The situation in Surat "has us 
a little worried. Surat is quite 
close and communication is fre­
quent," Ramanand Tiwari, a 
top official in the Health 
Ministry, said in a telephone 
interview. 
Hundreds of businessmen 
travel between the two cities 
every day in crowded trains. 
Gujarat state officials said 
they were sending antibiotics to 
Surat and have closed schools. 
Pesticides were being sprayed 
to kill fleas that spread the dis­
ease from infected rats to hu­mans, the World Health Organization said. 

Sudha Anchalia, the Gujarat health commissioner, said in a telephone interview that 32 plague victims were admitted to three hospitals in the last two days and 24 died. 
She said it appeared to be pneumonic plague. If she is cor­rect, it would be the first case of pneumonic plague in India in about 30 years, said WHO offi­cial N.P. Shah. 
Both the bubonic and pneu­monic varieties can be cured with antibiotics, but pneumonic plague often kills people faster. 
In recent years, hundreds of thousands of poor villagers have flocked to Surat in search of work in the city's silk and di­amond-cutting and -polishing industries. Many of the city's 
1.5 million inhabitants live in squalid shanty towns with open sewers, prime breeding areas for disease. 
Last month, doctors in Mamla village in the southern state of Maharashtra found 35 people with tumors in their armpits and groins, symptoms of the bubonic plague. 
No plague deaths have been reported there, but health ex­perts said Wednesday that 155 people so far in 11 villages are suspected of being infected. 
A health official has blamed 
the outbreak on rats attracted 
by relief food sent to feed sur­
vivors of a September 1993 
earthquake that killed 10,000 
people. The food was stored in 
damaged homes. 
Relief workers in 
Maharashtra are spraying in­
secticides, distributing antibi­
otics and catching rats from the 
infected villages. 
Alarmed by reports of large­scale spraying of DDT, a chemi­cal banned in most countries, many environmentalists suc­cessfully forced the district ad­ministration to hire tribespeo­ple adept at catching rodents, The Hindusthan Times news­paper reported. 
About 100 Irula tribespeople from the southern state of Tamil Nadu are being sent to Maharashtra to catch the rats, it said. The Irulas are so skilled that they catch the creatures barehanded. 

Player's Ball 
Sept. 24th 
9 p.m. -3 a.m. at C.S.C 
$2 before I I p.m. $3 after 





rso¢-oFFl 
I regular size Cappucino I 
I 
Offer good only at Campus Shoppes store • Not valid with any other offer. Exp. 9/2.9/94 : .. • 
I 
1 

I I Can't BeUeveIlfs 
Campus Shoppes II YiO~rt! 1837 S. Bend Ave. We Put ASmile On Your Taste!~ 271•9540 .J
L ------­

pageS The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 23, 1994 
The Hatntnes 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
''on the campus" 
Open Monday-Saturday 9am-5pm 
Special Hours Football Weekends! -Friday & Saturday 9am-7pm 



Friday,September 23, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
NATO peacekeepers take aim at Serbian tank 
~~asyli'~t~ Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square 51400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 (219)277-1291  

··! -~NLY :~~.f(A,., •. ~ ~,.:-:.·:· ''NOTRE DAME SPECIALS'' TOUCHDOWN -Box lunch GOLDEN DOMER-Picnic Basile~ feeds 8 ROCKNE lAJLGATER-Sandwich plater, feeds 8or 12 Heavenly Ham Also Features: •Sandwiches •Homemade Salads •Party Platters Spiral Cut, Fully Baked, Honey Glazed Ham 2307 Edison -1/2 Mile east of Stadium Monday-Friday: 10:00-6:30 Home Games: S:Oo-2:00 ..• ,;• ··~~~·'ts:s .... 288-4267  



CATCH THE SPIRIT! 
"The true spirit ofNotre Dame is captured in the commitment to faith and humanity... " 
Rev. Edward ~  Malloy, C.S.C.  
Catch the splrlt of the 1995  President, U1tiversity ofNotre Dame  
Datebook, "The Spirit of Notre Dame."  
This high quality 7~ 1/4 x 9~ 1/2 inch  
weekly planner captures the physical  
beauty of Notre Dame's campus through  
52 black and white photographs. Each  
week, the Datebook's scenic pictures will  
bring Notre Dame, its memories, and  
unique spirit home to you!  
The Datebook also conveys the  
growth of another spirit: the spirit of  
serving others. The Datebook is spon~  
sored by the Notre Dame Alumni  
Association to benefit La Casa de  
Amistad, Inc., a Hispanic non~profit  
community center on the City of South  
Bend's West Side.  
By purchasing a Datebook, you, too  
can be a part of the spirit of La Casa de  
Amistad, Inc. that is working to build  
youth programming in order to give boys  
and girls a healthier, brighter future.  Notre Dame  Alumni Association  

Calendars can be purchased at: the Alumni Office in the Main Building, the Bookstore, LaFortune Info Desk, The Morris Inn, The Varsity Shop, JACC Alumni Hospitality Center, Center for Social Concerns, Campus Ministry, The Golf Shop, and select Concession Stands for $10. 

Students can receive a $5 discount with a valid student I.D. 

had violated an agreement to keep heavy weapons out of a 12.5-mile exclusion zone around the capital. 
Two British Jaguars each dropped a 1,000-pound bomb on the target and a U.S. A-10 fired a 30mm cannon, NATO spokesmen in Naples, Italy, said on condition of anonymity. They said the object of the attack ­an unmanned tank -was destroyed. 
Gen. Bertrand de Lapresle, commander of U.N. troops in Bosnia and other former Yugoslav republics, told Cable News Network that an empty tank was purposely targeted so as not to cause loss of life. 
Bosnian Serb TV, monitored 


Singapore hangs drug user 
By VIJAYJOSHI 
Associated Press 
SINGAPORE 
Singapore on Friday hanged a Dutch businessman convicted of drug possession, the first Westerner to be executed by the island state for a narcotics crime, the Dutch Embassy said. 
Johannes van Damme, 59, was arrested in 1991 in Singapore's Changi Airport when police found 9.4 pounds of heroin in his suitcase. He had been on death row since last year. 
In keeping with Singapore's tradition, van Damme was hanged before dawn Friday at Changi prison on this island state's eastern edge. The prison made a terse announcement later. 
"We had the confirmation that he has been executed at 6.a.m.," Dutch Embassy spokeswoman Djoeke Koekkoek told The Associated Press. She did not give details. 
In the Hague, Dutch Foreign in Sarajevo, claimed the NATO planes attacked a civilian target in the village of Dobrosevici. The report mentioned no casu­alties but said Bosnian Serb sol­diers would retaliate by at­tacking U.N. personnel. 

U.N. commanders asked for the strike after Bosnian Serbs fired at the French APC a pro­jectile from an 82mm anti-tank recoilless gun, said Soubirou. 
The peacekeepers were ob­serving fighting between Muslim-led government troops and Serbs in the area of Sedrenik, just northeast of Sarajevo. 
In a second incident Thursday, one French soldier deployed in downtown Sarajevo 
Affairs Minister Hans van Mierlo said he was "disappoint­ed and appalled" by the hang­ing. 
Singapore has executed 78 people for drug offenses, which were made punishable with a mandatory death sentence in 1975. Possession of as little as 15 grams, or a half-ounce, of heroin is considered a punish­able offense. 
President Ong Teng Cheong had rejected earlier clemency pleas from the Dutch govern­ment and even a rare one from Dutch Queen Beatrix. Amnesty International, the London­based human rights group, also pleaded for mercy. 
On Thursday, van Damme's lawyer, Edmund Periera, said his client was aware of his fate after the government turned down a last-minute clemency plea. 
"He is bracing himself for it. He is sad. You have got to be there in his shoes to feel for him," Periera told the AP. 
was wounded in the leg by a small arms bullet, said U.N. spokesman Col. Bertrand Labarsouque. The origin of the fire was unknown. 
Another French APC was shot at southeast of the city and returned flre. 
The United Nations is autho­rized to call on NATO jets for protection any time peacekeep­ers are attacked by any of the warring sides. 
It was the second NATO at­tack against Bosnian Serb posi­tions in less than two months. NATO jets destroyed a Bosnian Serb anti-tank gun Aug. 5, after the Serbs seized weapons from a U.N.-guarded compound near Sarajevo. 
Thousands of Dutchmen jammed fax lines to Singapore's presidential palace Thursday calling for Van Damme to be spared. 
Dutch TV broadcast details of how to fax appeals to Singapore's president and a special phone line was set up for ordering telegrams appeal­ing for clemency. 
Amnesty spokeswoman Maud Bredero said "a couple thou­sand" people had called the group's Amsterdam office wanting to fax a message to Singapore. 
VanDamme, who had lived in Nigeria for 15 years before his arrest, had said he was inno­cent and claimed he did not know the heroin packets were in the suitcaset he was carrying for a Nigerian. 
Singapore's harsh penalties drew international attention in May when an American teen­ager, Michael Fay, was caned four times on the bare buttocks for vandalism. He also served four months in jail. 

By MAUD BEELMAN 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 

NATO jets struck at a Serb tank near Sarajevo on Thursday in retaliation for a Serb attack on U.N. peacekeep­ers. 
It was the fourth NATO airstrike against Bosnian Serb positions in Bosnia's 29-month war and reflected international exasperation with violations of a weapons-free zone around the Bosnian capital. 
The attack followed a Bosnian Serb assault on an armored personnel carrier manned by French peacekeepers in a northeastern district of the cap­ital and two other attacks on 
FAMOUS 
Since 1977 
15 Years of Service Award 
DINE IN, CARRY OUT, OR DELIVERY 

SZE-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AMERICAN DISHES 
"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
•Private 
Dining Booths 

•Fresh 
Ingredients 

•No 
Mass Production 

•Healthy 
Family Style Dining 

•Vegetarian 
Menu 


For Reservations 
&Carry Out Call: 

272-6702 
For Delivery Call 272-2-EAT 6329 University Commons 
(Across lrom Universi1y Pari< Mall) Soulh Bend, IN 46635 

.; VISA 
SatuoOay 4PM·10 PM 
French soldiers. One French soldier was seriously wounded in the attack on the APC. 
Brig. Gen. Andre Soubirou, 
U.N. commander of Sarajevo, told reporters that new attacks on U.N. personnel "will be met with the appropriate and pro­portional military force." 
In Washington, U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher praised the NATO action. "I think it's a very positive thing that NATO has responded. They've always been ready to respond... and the response was quick and determined." 
U.S. and British planes at­tacked the Serb tank at sunset about seven miles west of Sarajevo, NATO officials said. It 

page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 23, 1994 




1994 GOLDEN DOME 
~ 



TONIGHT-after the pep rally &SATURDAY (7:30 p.m.) Joyce Center I Notre Dame 


Friday, September 23, 1994 
The Observer • NEWS 

Woman wins diagnosis case 
By KAREN TESTA 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

A woman who gave up her children and made plans to kill herself because her AIDS virus test was misread was awarded $600,000 for pain and suffer­ing. 
Vernelle Lowder, 49, believed for two years that she was dy­ing of AIDS. She would not let her children hug her and gave legal custody of her three teen­age children to her mother ­who would wash her daugh­ter's dirty dishes with bleach. 
Finally, she returned to her hometown in Georgia, where her attorney said she planned 
The Bead Workshop
0000000000 
Over 1000 different beads of all shapes and sizes and a full line of supplies! Need a study break? Come in for some bead therapy. 
10 °/o OFF With This Ad! 

2222 Mishawaka Ave.  Tues,fri-11 am,6 pm  
Near Ironwood  Sat  -10 am,S pm  
237 0500  

to kill herself when the disease made her seriously ill. 
But she never became seri­ously ill, because Lowder never had the AIDS virus -a state lab had misdiagnosed her test results. 
Last week, a jury found the state lab and Lowder's doctor responsible. 
"It's horrible to go through something like this," Lowder's attorney, Steven Mitchel, said Thursday. "This is just about as bad an event as can happen to someone." 
Last year, Lowder sued the state Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services, who tested the sample; the Family Health Clinic, which drew the sample; and Dr. Homer Kirkpatrick, who treated her. 

She said all three should have known she was not HIV-posi­tive and ordered a retest. 
The clinic was cleared by the Dade Circuit Court jury. but the lab was found 65 percent re­sponsible and the doctor 35 percent responsible. 
The jury decided Sept. 16 that HRS should pay $390,000 of the $600,000 verdict. Under state law, it is required to pay $100,000, the maximum al­lowed under Florida's cap of damage payments by govern­ment agencies. The cap can be altered only by the state legislature. 
Kirkpatrick settled on the eve of the trial, agreeing to pay $250,000, $40,000 more than he would have paid under the jury's award. 
HRS attorney Steven Hyatt said they would challenge the ruling. Lowder is also challeng­ing it, saying the clinic should also have been found responsi­ble. 
Kirkpatrick could not be reached for comment. Mitchel said he had moved out of state and a woman answering the phone at his old office number said he no longer had a Miami practice. 
After being told she was HIV­positive, Lowder took medica­tion for several months that made her nauseous and weak, her attorney said. 
page 11 

during the engineering fair. 

Notre Dame Merchandise Home 

Football 
Weekends 









enne 
u n v e r s t y p a r k M a 

Israelis voice concern over potential pullout 
ByDANPERRY 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Tens of thousands of Israelis streamed to the Golan Heights on Thursday in support of set­tlers protesting a possible Israeli withdrawal from the strategic plateau. 
The demonstration came as a newspaper reported efforts are under way to arrange an Israeli-Syrian summit soon, possibly when U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher visits the region in October. 
About 50 Golan visitors heck­led legislators from the govern­ing Labor Party who visited a tent where eight leaders, most of them party members, have been on hunger strike for 10 days. 
"Look at what you're doing!" shrieked one woman as the lawmakers entered the tent in Gamla under a hail of invec­tive. "You're destroying this country, you're giving it up!" 
Tens of thousands came from all over Israel to Golan to demonstrate their support for Jewish settlers there. A crowd of 4,000 milled around the tent in Gamla, including about 100 Golan cattle farmers who rode in on prize horses. 
Eli Goldschmidt, a legislator who had been supporting keep­ing Golan part of Israel, tried to defend his acquiescence to Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin's requests that he drop the cause for now. 
"You call me a coward, and you are right," he told the pro­testors in a trembling voice. "I am afraid. I am afraid that peace will not come." 
Israel Radio quoted a uniden­tified high-ranking government official as saying that if Israel did not reach accommodation with Damascus, Syria would ally with the fundamentalist Islamic regime in Iran and try to torpedo peace with Jordan and the Palestinians. 
The statement appeared to be part of a campaign to accus­tom a skeptical Israeli public to the idea of giving up the heights, captured from Syria in the 1967 Middle East war. 
Rabin has pledged to submit a land-for-peace deal to a referendum. Polls show that while most Israelis favor a compromise, a solid majority still oppose the total withdraw­al Syria insists on. 


VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, September 23, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters 
Managing Editor John Lucas 

News Editor ...............................Sarah Doran Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan 
Bwiness Manager Joseph Riley 

Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser S)'ltems Manager ............................ Don IGngston Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Conttoller ..................................... Krisren Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edit~rials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenearics, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor /Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor /Production General Information Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• OPINION 
Making yourself marketable in eight steps 
From birth on, you have all worked to master the requirements to join society as a winner... basic skills in the primary grades... scores and extracurriculars in high school. then on to a top rated uni­versity where again you make top gun. You are doing everything you were told to do with distinction... so what's the reward? A piece of paper? 
What too many are fmding out is that prospects for immediate recognition for all your work, sweat and accomplish­ment may not be instant employment in a desired career. For many, graduation may very well mean moving back in with parents and searching for any meaningful employment while figuring out how to launch a career. There are ways to improve chances for successful career employment. Here are eight I learned from discussing careers with over 700 of you and your predecessors during the last nine years. 
1. Understand the job market. What happened to all those great jobs the fast track generation graduates were pulling down? No matter how you look at it, the current recession is changing historical ground rules. 
Let's look, for instance, at business hiring in the wake of this recession. First, the press continually reminds us that much of the staff trimmed during the recession would not be replaced after the economy recovered. In fact, several blue-chip companies are still downsizing even though many pundits have heralded the end of the recession. Second, it seems that amidst the typical expense trimming of a recession, train­ing budgets have been particular.ly hard hit. 
The days of big training programs that looked for broadly educated generalists may be a memory. Not too many years ago employers were looking for the edu­cational system to open young minds. They preferred to assume the role of training themselves. This matriculation process seemed to serve both colleges and employers well. Replacing this era with a search for candidates that can hit the ground running with little initial 
"TAKE YOUR BALLCiAME AND SHOVE IT'' 

training introduces a new and some­what disarming twist to preparing for career employment. 
2. Take ownership ofyour educa­tion. Start with a respect for your edu­cation. Believe that if you apply your­self, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's expe­rience will prepare you for a fulfilling career. Respect also implies your active participation in grasping and exploring the ideas that are the fabric of your courses. It recognizes that grades and GPA's are ends in themselves. You are here for the content, because it's the content that forms the tools of your career. In other words, setting your academic course on a least sweat approach may get you your diploma, but it's very likely to strike out as a career strategy. 
It is important to remind yourselves that ownership does not mean that every chapter of every text or class ses­sion should excite your interest equally. The first job is to observe what bits or pieces excite your interests and to rec­ognize they are giving signals about career direction. Whether you are freshmen or seniors, listen to these sig­nals. Are they more art or science ori­ented? Do they tell us we should be working with people or with things? Does it feel like me? What choices should I be making based on what I feel? Does the pattern signal a career yet? Or maybe a major? Or interest in a more advanced course in a particular field? 
3. Don't underestimate your ability to make solid career related decisions by the time you are sophomores (if not before). Listen to yourself. There is a very bright person in there that is get­ting a bit tired of not being heard. No matter what others might have told you in the past about what you should do vocationally, you can now give yourself better advice. Set aside quiet time ... learn to pray with your ears instead of your mouth. And, don't expect the sky to open and give you the final answer in one breath. 
4. Build on your victories. When an 
W£U., WHAT KIN/) OF VAUI~ 
ARt YCV TAt-KING ABOUT? 
£./Kh H{)(J/ MUCH (1K)()/..I) A 24-COUNTmCKA6£ OFEXTRA­lARGE B:WIP£R5 C.OSTM£? 

idea or experience "works," don't let go. Refine it. For example, if a particular idea in one of your courses really inter­ests you. explore it further. Find out if, as you learn more, your interest contin­ues to grow to the point where you want to make this an important part of your career. How do you do it? One of the best ways is to use it as a subject for a paper in any course where it fits. You win twice this way. First, you get an immediate use for your exploration. And second, because the subject is of interest, your paper will probably be better. . 
5. Learn some practical sides ofliv­ing the career, as patterns develop and career choices begin to take shape. For example, if advertising feels attractive, think about joining the staffs of either The Observer or Adworks. Consider running for office if political science excites you. Or what about tak­ing a leadership role in a major activity like JPW? Look at all the opportunities to teach and provide community service leadership. 
Intern programs are another way of immersing yourself to get a career feel. Study-abroad programs give a real feel to the world-wide economy that seems to be an integral part of all our futures. 
6. Build the compelling case. As your career choice becomes clearer. do not forget that today's employer is typi­cally looking for someone who can assume responsibility quickly. In job interviews, that frequently translates into having conviction that this field is right for you. You should be able to communicate opinion on issues within the field. 
There is something more that can give you a measurable advantage... quotable expert opinion that you have made your own. To be able to say, "I was interest­ed when you said that you saw (fill in the blank) as being important to your field. We had an outside speaker (or professor) on that subject just last semester. I asked him about this and his advice to me was (fill in the blank)." That's one way of professionally com-municating you are on the same wave length as your potential employer. 

7. Be ready to take the lead in an interview. It is very easy to be over­whelmed by this process. Interviewers are often your parents' age with a great deal of success behind them. The response is often to let them control the meeting and only be prepared to respond to direct questions. Many of the better interviewers are not looking for this type of response. 
At some point, they are really looking for you to take some control of the inter­view. Watch for the signal. It may · come in the form of an open ended question about what you think of the opportunity or a simple pause at the end of a presentation. Or, it may be a more direct handing over of the discussion. 
In any case, here is where your invest­ment in planning for your career can begin to pay off, as you fmd yourself able to build off comments by your interviewer with personal experiences and quoted references. 
8. Respect what you have become. 

As you read this, recognize that you are a special person and have been growing into that role through the love and care of many people throughout your life. What makes interviewers come to this campus is much more than we discussed here. They are here because before we ever laid our eyes on you, you were already becoming someone who had something special to give this world. It wasn't invented here. You brought much of it from home with you. But hopefully those around you... fellow stu­dents, faculty and administration ... entrusted with these four years have helped build a sense of self that now lets you grasp a challenge in this world and state without hesitation, "I am ready." 
RICHARD HUETHER 
Class of 1955 

Editor's Note: Richard Huether is an inter­national author. lecturer and consultant. having served 36 years as an executive on GE's corporate marketing staff. He is also a distinguished lecturer and mentor at the University ofNotre Dame . 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''I:'ach friend represents a .I:::.tworld in us, a world possibly not born until they arrive, and it is only by this meeting that a new world is born." -Anais Nin 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURY 
--~-----------­
·-----~-~-~--.. 

Friday, September 23, 1994 page 13 
VIEWPOINT 
•LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to respond to a column in your September 19 publication written by Jenny Shank titled, "A one-eyed dog and a boy named Jeb." I am somewhat unsure just exactly what Shank's intent was, though I would hazard a guess this piece was an attempt at humor. The piece was far from humorous, however, and was in fact quite appalling. 
Shank, in her column, recreated a particular conversation at her place of summer employment where she worked as a "sandwich wench" for $4.25 an hour. After filling us in on certain details of that conversation, Shank then went on to describe the life she envisioned for herself had she chosen to remain a "sandwich wench" and not return to Notre Dame. 
Shank manages to stereotype every working-class citizen of this country as people having a "dozen or so chil­dren," all with similar or the same names; as people who only live in trailer homes and eat pork and beans for every meal; and as people who have no front teeth, chain smoke and own one-eyed dogs and three-legged cats. As much as Shank would like the reader to believe this to be true, it fortunately is not. 
Summer jobs that pay $4.25 an hour are quite familiar to most college stu­dents. These jobs are rather insignifi­cant in the life span of the average college student, but they are not to the people left behind when the student leaves to pursue greatness. Shank, who is privileged enough to attend a large, expensive, private learning institution, forgot a few things, how­ever, when she so quickly criticized those who are not her ilk. 
First, as I mentioned earlier, this Hollywo.od stereotype of blue-collar simply is false. Although it may be difficult, Shank must remember that the people in "Deliverance' are actors; people are paid quite a signifi­cant amount of money to make audi­ences believe they are real. 
Second, Shank tends to forget, as 
her mind is being opened up to a 
whole world of new thoughts and 
ideas, college students are very much 
a privileged minority in this world. 
Many many people have not been blessed with an opportunity to contin­ue their education, especially at an expensive, private, Catholic university. 
The stories are endless about why people are where they are. If Shank had taken the time to familiarize her­self with her co-workers, instead of criticize them, she may have discov­ered why they are sandwich workers and not college students. Shank may have learned that Tina had to drop out of high school to work and sup­port her family, or that Linda could have gone to college, but her family could not assist her financially, or maybe Van did not even know college was a possibility, because his family never encouraged him to continue learning. 
Next, Shank's piece takes a cut at many of the people supporting those who decide, "maybe I'll just go to Notre Dame." Many parents make great sacrifices and work long hours by the sweat of their brow to give us opportunities they never dreamed of. 
Keep in mind, one of those people with the eagle and American flag tat­too may very well be the father of your best friend at Notre Dame. 
Finally, I am disappointed by the apparent lack of journalistic ethics displayed by The Observer. You are the official voice for one of the great­est Catholic institutions in the world. This means you are responsible for upholding a certain standard which is consistent not just with Catholic val­ues, but with Christian values. A work such as this does not serve to build and unify the greater communi­ty; it stereotypes and creates larger barriers between the blessed and the less fortunate. Communication is at the root of your foundation. In the future, please consider facilitating growth instead of suppressing it. 
MARTY WOLSKE 
Seminary Candidate Moreau Seminary 

• BEYOND fREEDOM ROCK 
The genesis ofgender relations at ND 
"It's a light and tumble journey 
From the Dome to SMC, 
Just a fine and fancy ramble 
To the zoo. 
But you can take the Shuttle Bus, 
/fit's raining or it's cold, 
And the animals will love it 
Ifyou do... " 
Doug Simon and Dave Blaha -yes, they were billed at the Coffeehouse as "Simon and Blaha" and took some lib­erties with the lyrics. The Shuttle Bus truly was a lifeline from Notre Dame to Saint Mary's in the days when US 31-33 separated 7,000 Notre Dame guys from 1,500 Saint Mary's girls. 
And it truly was a zoo. The student body was disparate-jocks, freaks, brief­case bourgeoisie-but one point upon which we agree as alums is that nobody believes us when we try to tell them how incredibly bad the male/female scene was. 
Trust me. This was a very bad scene, and it came to a head in the academic year 1969-70. This was the year the merger was announced; the outside world made it impossible to ignore our dysfunction. 
The Shuttle Bus controversy pinpoint­ed what has since become the archetyp­al Catholic response to the new social order. 
The Shuttle Bus had been instituted several years before, to transport stu­dents for the Academic Exchange Program between the two schools. Now, as merger became an official goal, there were even more shared programs in which students could interact. 
But the limits of that interaction were spelled out when we returned to campus in 1969. The Shuttle Bus would contin­ue to be a free ride during the day, when students were attending classes on each other's campuses. After 6 p.m., it would cost a dime. 
Even 25 years ago, a dime wasn't much. Burgers were thirty cents. No 
Pete Peterson 


one was going to go broke over a dime. 
But the message was clear. Studying was free, after-hours activities were not. This went to the heart of how Notre Dame saw women: They were welcome as students, but their presence in all but the most carefully controlled academic setting was a near occasion of sin, or at the very least, a frivolity, an extra, a lit­tle treat. The ladies, God bless 'em. 
It was inconceivable to the administra­tion that male and female students com­ing together in a casual setting would be a general benefit to the community. It was inconceivable that men and women could interact socially without a sexual sub text. 
Coeducation may have been inevitable, but the administration had a mission to preserve the Catholic character of the university. The Church taught that you had to pay for your sins. In this case, you had to pay a dime. 
Tim Collins, Student Union manager of transportation, announced that the University did not feel it had to "subsi­dize the social lives of the students." SU Director Denny Clark admitted the deci­sion was "reached solely by the Administration: No students figured in it at all." 
No, of course not. Colleges in gen­eral were faced with a buyers' market. It was not clear, particularly at religious schools, whether the clientele was the student or the student's parents. Either way, a school that could offer both eter­nal salvation and a national champi­onship had a decided advantage over a college that only had good weather, an attractive social life, or-fancy that­superior and unique academic offerings to recommend it. 
The time was coming when the University would have to begin consider­ing the pressures of the marketplace. In the meantime, they just didn't get it. 
Students protested the after-hours fare in the most civilized manner. Some classes met in the evenings. Therefore, students shouldn't be charged extra to attend class. Students needed access to both libraries. Certain official activities deserved consideration. 
Students were loath to suggest the more controversial argument-that charging people for having a sex life is called pimping, which is a sin and a crime-in large part because it was beside the point. For all the fanfare of the sexual revolution, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community was not only stunningly chaste, but boys and girls remained self-consciously divided like awkward sixth graders at a mixer. We just wanted to establish some sort of casual, civilized atmosphere. 
That was, however, a goal the admin­istration could not fathom. The stu­dents came up with logical reasons they shouldn't be charged for interaction. The University dithered by addressing those specific objections instead of deal­ing with the implied overriding injustice. 
Students with late classes could get bus passes, as could students involved in after-hours extracurriculars. There was some sort of validation system for those who needed reserved materials at the library on the other campus. If the stu­dents were willing to try to batter down the doors with popcorn, the administra­tion was content to nibble them to death. 
But the students were learning, and the year was young. 
Pete Peterson, '71, is Readership Services Manager at the Press­Republican, in Plattsburgh. NY. 
---~~-­
-~­
·­






-----, 

page 14 The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, September 23, 1994 
Comedy Cafe recreates 
Battling 
the 


nostalgic cartoon mornings 
By JENNIFER LEWIS
Elements 

Saint Mary's Spons Editor 
The weathermen are pre-------­dieting 50 degrees and cloudy with a slight chance of rain on Saturday. 
Slight is the key word. Don't believe it. Expect tor-
Irential downpours and maybe even a little thunder and lightning around game time. 
After all, we are playing Beth ReganPurdue, and what would a 
=.:S:u=·n:.:.t.:..:M:=ary:L..::.'s-=Ed=i=to:.:.r_

game against the ­Boilermakers be without the traditional poor weather factor? 
A little rain has never stopped anyone around here from having fun on a football weekend, so just suck it up and put on your poncho and galoshes that your mom forced you to bring to school this fall . 
Remember beer and mud don't mix so make sure not to wear any of your favorite clothes. Old jeans and sweatshirts are the best. 
Tailgating at Red Field can also be tricky without the proper shoes. The ground can quickly become a mud slide, especially after a few beers. 
You should also beware of those having so much fun tailgating that they begin to think that they are back home at the swimmin' hole. These are the few brave soles that break out the bikini's and take off their shirts to revel in the rain. 
At the last home game against Purdue I saw a guy, I call the snake, slide " least fifty feet on his belly in the mud aero!>, "'uth quad. Don't be that guy. 
If hours of tailgating in the rain isn't enough to deter you from entering the game, then the mere thought of standing in wet socks for four hours just might be. 
You can always sell your ticket to some poor unsuspecting die hard fan, who will do any­thing to see a game-even against Purdue. But most will opt for the torcher of watching their team 
Watching the Irish roll over the Boilermakers while waterlogged is not exactly fun, so if you are a fair weather fan and want to duck out, half-time is the perfect option ­you still have enough time to get back to your room without missing Ron Powlus and Randy Kinder in action. 
After escaping the elements, the first thing to do is peel off the layers of sopping clothes and grab anything dry and warm. This can be great for your wardrobe if you happen to end up in someone else's room. 
People are usually generous about passing out flannels and cool sweatshirts to girls that end up in their escape-the-rain parties on Purdue weekends. 
You also have the convenience of Papa John's and warm (or warming) beverages at your fmgertips. If you're lucky you might even get a touchdown special on the pizza. 
Just think, next year, the game .will be in West Lafayette, and you won't have to deal with the weather . You can watch the entire game in the comfort of your own room ­unless· of course you're crazy enough to like it. 

Remember Saturday mornings when you were a kid and the only thing that mattered in the world was your snugly, warm blanket and Saturday morning cartoons? 
Well, you're not the only one. Tonight, Saint Mary's Comedy Cafe is proudly hosting "Saturday Morning Live," a comedy act that reincarnates your favorite childhood characters like Scooby Doo and Captain Cave Man. 
They are also famous for singing familiar show tunes from the past. Songs like "Conjunction, Junction," "Noun" and "I'm just a Bill." 
"They sang songs that I didn't think I remembered until I heard them and immediately began to chime in," said Tom Lynch, a Zahm Hall junior. 
"They really tried to incorporate the crowd and keep them enter­tained," he added. 
"(Saturday Morning Live) Brings cartoon to life on stage," according to Fox Television. 
This is the second year that Comedy Cafe is sponsored by the Student Activities Board (SAB}. And SAB hopes to provide students on both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses an alternative form of entertainment at a low price. 
The SAB plans to bring in two comedy acts a semester. They are hoping to create a laid back environ­ment in which a student can get away for a couple of hours to sit down and have a few laughs, according to Jennifer Dyjak, active SAB member. 
By request, "Saturday Morning Live" is coming back for their second year at Saint Mary's. "Students seemed to enjoy it the most," Dyjak said. "Therefore, we were very fortu­nate to get them back for one more year." 
"Most of our suggestions come directly from the student body and brain storming·," she added 
"Saturday Morning Live," consists of seven professional improvisational actors that reenact the seventies with a nineties twist. There performers come from all over the United States and most have a Second City back­ground. 
They are a relatively young group of actors that base their routines on true to life scenarios, according to Dyjak. 
"It's a perfect place to go especially on a Friday evening before a home football game," said Saint Mary's sophomore Cara Calcagno. 
"It's a hit for twenty-something's and college crowds," shared Paige Soron, a graduate student at Northwestern University. 
"Last year they acted out what the Fat Albert Gang would be doing in the ninties," said Dyjak. "It was hys­
terical, who would have thought of ..----------------------------~ 
it?" So if you have grown tired of cram­ ·-performed tonight at 9 p.m., and the admission price costs two dollars.  Student Center. "I was really glad that I found a way  
ming your body into a sweaty dorm  The Comedy Cafe will be held at the  over to Saint Mary's last year to  
room or decided on staying in before  Haggar Parlor. Haggar Center is  watch the show," said Zahm Hall  
home football games, close your text book and escape back into the fanta­sy world of your childhood Saturday mornings. The feature this semester will be  located in the middle of Saint Mary's campus directly across from the fountain. If you need to take a shuttle you can find a shuttle schedule at the information desk in L-aFortune  junior Nick Capozzola. "It was hyster­ical. It was a shame that more people were not aware of the Comedy Cafe at the time. I plan to go again this year."  


·­
-:-, ... ·.,"> 

---~~-------~---"---~----­
---~----------­

hunder rolls with the snap 
of the football. The defend­
ers pause, sniff the air. 
They can tell a storm's brewing. Then there's a spark, a flash, and then he's gone. 
Hopeful tacklers lie with their faces stuck in the turf, wondering where they went wrong. Opposing coaches throw their clipboards in disgust, frustrated at how their · entire defense could look so foolish because of the handiwork of one running back. 
l\1eanwhile, Randy Kinder streaks down the field for a touchdown, much to the delight of the fans and to the broadcasters, who say his name as if it flo\VS like honev from their tongues. of 
"The ball goes to number 2!), Raannndy Kinnnder, a sophomore from East Laannnsing, Michigan," 
---------~-------. 

Friday, September 23, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 2 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE. 
!!I • 

Irish offense: Best and worst of times 






bilty this season, as  rushing on 50 carries, Colletto saw the need to  
Purdue has shifted to a 4-3  make a change.  
style defense. So far, he has  "At this level, it is a different intensity."  
adjusted nicley.  Intensity may be a good word to use when talk­ 
"At times, he's played really  ing about Randy Kinder.  
well," said Colletta. "They are  Intense about establshing himself in the Notre  
getting used to the new style."  Dame offense and fulfill his lofty expectations.  
Tomorrow will mark  With Lee Becton sidelined for a good three  
Conley's 20th start, so he  weeks, Kinder knows it is his time.  
boasts the experience needed  Colletta does too.  
to be the Boilermaker's leade  "Losing Becton isn't going to affect what we  
on defense.  do," said the Purdue coach. "Randy Kinder is an  
Playing with a lot of young­ awfully good back. We have to play and tackle  
sters has made this experience  just like we would Becton. We can't fall asleep."  
all the more valuable.  With sprinter's speed and fullback's force, odds  
Like so many middle  are Kinder will keep Boilermaker defenders on  
linebackers, though, Conley  their toes.  
lets his play speak for itself.  The Irish line would prefer to keep them on  
The Irish have surely lis­ their backs.  
tened to what his play has  "Our offensive line is getting better," noted  
said, namely, 207 career tack­ Holtz. "But we still are young there and there is  
les, including 13 for losses and  not a lot of continuity."  
three fumble recoveries.  This instabilty has been the result of injuries.  
How loudly will Conley's play  The newest victim to join fellow linemnn Will  
speak tomorrow?  Lyell and Chris Clevenger is Ryan Leahy.  
-TIMSHERMAN  Even if Leahy is able to go tomorrow, it will be without the bene/it of a full week of prartice.  

Conley 

teammates step up the same way he has against the Irish. 
Conley, Purdue's junior line­backer. has been named Purdue's player of the game against the Irish for the past two seasons. 
As a freshman, he recorded a career-high 16 tackles in Notre Dame Stadium. adding an additional 11 last season. 
The Cincinnati native par­layed these performances into a Big Ten honorable mention in 1993 and is aiming for even more in 1994, both as an indi­vidual and as a team. 
At 6-foot-3, 225-pounds. Conley possesses the size to be a big hitter. Couple this with solid defensive instincts. and Purdue coach Jim Colletta has a pretty complete linebacker. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz has seen this first-hand. 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Assistant Sports Editor 

It has bnen a taln of two offenses thus far for Notre Dame. 
Against Northwestern and Michigan, the Irish went to air with ease and confidence. Ron Powlus was in complete command, finding Derrick Mayes and Mike Miller with regularity. 
Irish fans weren't sure if they were seeing Stanford, Brigham Young, or Notre Dame. 
Sure, the passing attack was wonderful. but the questioned begged-where was the running game that coach Lou Holtz loves so much? 
Well, like the Prodigal Son (not Hon Powlus), it returned to atone for its sins. 
But this time the aerial artistry that was quick­ly becoming a welcome newcomer to Irish foot­ball was gone. In its place was an unacceptable four-interception effort that left Holtz using Michigan State's turf as an excuse. 
Now, the task has been defined. Find balance. 
But Holtz still loves the ground game. 
"The team that can run the ball will almost invariably win the football game, especially here in the Midwest." 
Purdue coach Jim Colletto can't enjoy hearing 
While the line is still working out the kinks, Powlus is becoming more comfortable with the offense, though last Saturday didn't show it. 
He has now seen three defensive schemes, with the Spartans being the most complex. 
Although it is hard to believe, Powlus may have more experience at this level than a good portion of Purdue's backfield. 
The Boilermakers start two sophomores and one true freshman and have shown a tendency to surrender the deep ball. 
"Overall, we've played well defensively," said Colletto. "But we tend to make mistakes." Mayes, Miller, Kinder, and various other Irish will be out to capitalize on this inconsistency. 
For Purdue, stability is going to have to come from linebackers Bart Conley, Aaron Hall, and down linemen Jon Krick. 
"A lot of our kids will be coming up (to Notre Dame) for the first time and it is going to take some getting used to," noted Colletta. 
The only thing the Irish want to get used to is a offense which is clicking both on the ground and in the air. 
that, considering the Irish boast a stable of run­
It's amazing what "He is a very, very 
ners, but he does has some measure of confi­
playing well against good linebacker," 
dence in his front seven's ability. 
Notre Dame can do for praised Holtz. "He 
''They have adjusted well," said Colletta. 
a player's reputation has started the last 
The main adjustment Colletto is speaking of is 
and confidence. Just couple of years and 
his team's shift from a 3-4 set-up to a more run­
ask Bart Conley. played well." 
stopping 4-3 defense. 

Now, Conley is won­Conley has been 
Even though Purdue played the Irish run well
dering just how much asked to take on a lit­
last season, allowing an un-Irish like 196 yards
could happen if his tle bit more responsi­

• RATING THE iRISH 
Quarterback 4 Last week was more fluke than fact. Ron Powlus is too tal­ented to let disaster strike again. 
Running Back 4 Becton's loss hurts, but Kinder is capable of filling the void. Zellars and Edwards have been steady all season. 
Wide Receiver 4 A few drops last week lower the rating. hut with Derrick Mayes in the lineup, expect the spectacular. 
Offensive Line 3 Welcome Steve Misetic and Mike Doughty to a unit that seems to be improving. Leahy's absence will be felt. though. 
Defensive Line 3 Played well when it counted against Michigan State. A simi­lar one-half performance would likely suffice against Purdue. Let's hope they play two. 
Linebackers 4 Jeremy Sample and Bert Berry swarmed Michigan State quarterback Tony Banks and, as always, Justin Goheen was the stabilizing force. 
Secondary 3 Needs someone who makes thr~wing away from Bobby Taylor a risk. Last week, Michigan State simply picked on Shawn Wooden and Tracy Graham. New faces could help. 
Special Teams 3 Mike Miller is dangerous-to the opposition if he catches the balL and to the Irish if he doesn't. Kickoff coverage and placekicking haw been problems all year. 
Coaching 5 If anyone can turn the lackluster Irish into a championship contender, it's Lou Holtz. When Holtz is in his teaching mode, watch out. 
-JASON KELLY 

33 
Ifthe Irish play against Purdue like they played tlgaiwt Michigan State, they wiLl onLy beat the BoiLermakers by about 14 points. 


page 3 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, September 23, 1994 
BOILER AKERS ON THE OFFENSIVE. .. . 


Dominant defense still Holtz's dream 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Nobody wanted to talk to Lou Holtz and Bob Davie just before halftime of last week's game at Michigan State. 
A poor defensive first half had players avoiding the pair like the plague. But the coaches consoled each other, offering optimism for a second half resurgence. 
"We're going to come back and win this thing," the head coach said. despite Notre Dame's 17-7 deficit. 
"I know we are," the defensive coordinator responded. 
"But it sure would be a lot easier to come back if we held them to a field goal here instead of a touchdown," the head coach added. a subtle or­der to tighten a shaky defense, and do it in a hurry. 
Davie's defense did just that, allowing only three points and setting the stage for a dominat­ing second half. 
The Irish held the Spartans scoreless for the final 30 minutes to escape with a 21-20 win. 

Holtz and Davie embraced. 
"I told you we'd win," the head coach said. 
But Holtz didn't sound so confident about his defense this week. 
Purdue's offense, no longer the "P.U." unit of the past, presents real problems to an Irish defense in disarray. 
Last week against Ball State, the Boilermakers rushed for 428 yards in a 49-21 win. 
It was the first time in more than a decade that Purdue had gained more than 300 yards on the ground. 
An offensive line with size and experience could present problems for the Irish up front. 
Germaine Holden, a starter at the beginning of the season, has been battling injuries, forcing Alton Maiden to move to nose guard spot to spell Oliver Gibson. 
Freshman Corey Bennett has moved into the backup slot at outside linebacker. "We're still trying to find the defensive line." Holtz said. "We're really decimated there." That could be a problem for the Irish will a pair of tough Purdue runners. 
Tailback Corey Rogers and fullback Mike Alstott have each rushed for more than 250 yards in their first two games. 
"They remind me of our good football teams when we could run the football," Holtz said. 
It's not yet time to compare the Boilermakers to great Irish offenses of the past, but the ques­tion marks on the Notre Dame defense have Holtz worrying about the weekend. 
Answers in the defensive backfield may come from freshmen Ivory Covington and Allen Rossum. 
The secondary has been a primary concern. 
Opponents have had success throwing away from superstar Bobby Taylor because the Irish haven't found an intimidating cornerback on the other side. 
Shawn Wooden and Tracy Graham have strug­gled opposite Taylor. Covington and Rossum will help relieve some of the pressure. 
"It's a move designed to create depth...even­tually," Holtz said. "(Covington and Rossum) are good young athletes who've never been beaten deep. Young players know no fear." 
Holtz has enough for everyone. 
He frets about every Irish opponent from Navy to Northwestern. Not exactly teams that make you soil your slacks. 
But last week's first half performance against Michigan State verified a lot of his worries about the defense. 
He dreams of building a dominating defensive tradition, one that inspires fear in every team who dares to dot the schedule. 
But he also recognizes reality-or is it realty. ''We are not a solid defense," Holtz said. "We're still trying to build the house." 

PlAYER TO WATCH. .. •MIKE ALSTOTT 
Mike Alstott toils in same year, he broke virtual anonymity. his hand and still 
His name is seldom rushed for 50 yards mentioned among the on 10 carries. best players in the Alstott plays all out. country, but the Last season, , he Purdue fullback has rushed for 816 yards, quietly carved a niche the most by a for himself in the col­Boilermaker in a

lege football con­sciousness. 
The Sporting News named Alstott the best fullback in the nation and he is among the contenders for top individual honors in the Big Ten. 
But he still seems to be hid­den in the shadows of Purdue's football program. National exposure is hard to find in West Lafayette. 
The 6-foot-1. 241-pound junior has played though pain for much of his career, perse­vering to become Purdue's most promising prospect. 
Among the leaders for Big Ten freshman of the year hon­ors in 1992, Alstott broke his leg in the 10th game of the season. 
But he practiced that spring, with an eight-inch plate and eight screws in his leg. 
In the spring game that 
decade. Alstott also caught 30 passes for 407 yards and two touchdowns. 
And his 12 total touchdowns was just two less than school mark and placed him second in the Big Ten in scoring. 
He became Purdue's first sophomore MVP in nearly 50 years, and he's done nothing to diminsh his reputation. 
Just two games into the 1994 season. Alstott already has rushed for 255 yards. 
Saturday he arrives on his biggest stage of the season. a national televison clash against Notre Dame. 
His performance will deter­mine his national award sta­tus, and, of course, determine the Boilermakers' chances to win. 
After Saturday, you'll proba­bly remember his name. 
-JASON KELLY 



25 

Holtz predicted that Purdue would have a winning record in the Big Ten. This is not a Big Ten game, expect a typical irish thrashing ofPurdue. 
Quarterback 2 Rick Trefzger is a capable leader, but he didn't put up very impressive numbers against some weak competition. 
Running Back 4 Outstanding starters, but not much depth. Mike Alstott may be the best fullback in the nation and Corey Rogers is a talented tailback. 
Wide Receiver 2 The loss of Jeff Hill and Jermaine Ross hurts. Burt Thornton has filled in well, but he's not enough. 
Offensive Line 3 A veteran group with good size and a strong command of the fundamentals. 
Defensive Line 3 Not the toughest test, but a test nonetheless for Notre Dame's ailing offensive line. Purdue's experienced unit could pose some problems. 
• RATING THE BOILERMAKERS 
Linebackers 4 Bart Conley and Aaron Hall combine to form one of the best linebacker combinations in the Big Ten. Veteran Romond Batten, among others, adds depth. 
Secondary 2 Only John Jackson returns to a unit plagued by inexperi­ence. Powlus could pick on these guys all day. 
Special Teams 2 Good kicker and punter. Return and coverage teams are average at best. A chance for Notre Dame's special teams to return to its characteristic dominating form. 
Coaching 3 Jim Colletta has returned some measure of respectability to a Purdue program that wallowed in the Big Ten base­ment not long ago. A win over Notre Dame would ensure respect, but that's not likely to happen Saturday. 
-jASON KELLY 
. --·--· 

Friday, September 23, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 4 





OILERMAKERS 
• • •  
p  Opp  Anderson  10.0  8  20  2.5  0  6  
47  39  FIELD GOALS  0-39  40-49  50+  Tot  
by rushing  35  15  PASSING  Comp  Att  %  Yds  TO  tnt  Lg  Babich  0-1  0-0  0-0  0-1  
by passing  10  20  Trefzger  14  27  51.9  196  0  2  36  
by penalty  2  4  Dicken  2  2  100  33  0  0  23  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
Total yardage  944  725  Denigan  5  45.6  0  56  
Offensive plays  133  138  RECEIVING  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  
Avg. yards per play  7.09  5.25  Thornton  6  108  18.0  0  36  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TD  Lg  
Total yards per game  472.0  362.5  Olivadotti  3  30  10.0  0  14  Allen  6  21.2  0  26  
Rushing yards  715  265  Rogers  2  28  14.0  0  27  Samuel  2  17.5  0  25  
Rushing plays  104  78  Allen  2  22  11.0  0  13  
Rushing yards per game  357.5  132.5  Alstott  2  18  9.0  0  19  PUNT RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Passing yards  229  460  Allen  4  15.8  0  42  
Passes completed  16  33  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rec  Ret  Tot  Avg  
Passes attempted  29  60  Rogers  253  28  0  281  140.5  INTERCEPTIONS  No  Yds  TO  Lg  
Passes intercepted  2  2  Alstott  255  18  0  273  136.5  Metzger  1  31  0  31  
Passing yards per game  114.5  230.0  Allen  49  22  190  261  130.5  Hagins  1  29  0  29  
Fumbles I fumbles lost  2/2  2/2  Watson  89  0  0  89  89.0  
Penalties I penalty yards  7/55  8/63  Thornton  0  108  0  108  54.0  DEFENSE  A  Tot  FR  PBU  BK  Sac  
3rd down conversions  13-21  11-32  Samuel  0  0  35  35  17.5  Hall  8  21  0  1  0  0  
percentage  61.9  34.4  Olivadotti  0  30  0  30  15.0  Batten  6  19  0  3  0  0  
4th down conversions  0-0  2-3  Conley  6  15  0  0  0  1  
percentage  0.0  66.7  PAT  PAT  Hagins  6  15  2  0  0  0  
SCORING  TO  x1  FG  Sal  Pis  Johnson  6  9  0  0  0  0  
INDIVIDUAL STATS  Alstott  4  0-0  0  0  24  Jackson  2  7  0  2  0  0  
RUSHING  YdS/Gm  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Hagins  3  0-0  0  0  18  Maciag  3  7  0  0  0  1  
127.5  35  255  7.3  4  54  Rogers  3  0-0  0  0  Krick  4  7  0  0  0  0  
126.5  31  253  8.2  3  48  Babich  0  Brush  1  5  0  0  0  0  
89.0  13  89  6.8  Allen  1  2  5  0  2  0  0  
24.5  1  49  Brown  3  5  0  0  0  0  
22  Matthews  4  0  0  0  
• • •  • • •  
Pos.  HI.  WI.  
Craig Allen John Jackson  WR DB  6-1 5-7  175 181  JIM COLLETTO  PURDUE  
3  C.J. Torres Brian Thurman  WR DB  5-10 5-11  170 197  Sept. 10  TOLEDO  51-17. w  
8  Burt Thornton Willie Tillman Kevin McGrew Rob Denigan Romond Batten Kevin Nolan  WR WR DB p LB s  6-2 6-1 5-9 6-4 5-11 5-10  202 175 183 217 231 171  Fourth season at Purdue Career Record at Purdue: 9-24 Against Notre Dame: 0-3  Sept. 17 Sept. 24 Oct.1 · · Oct. 8  BALL STATE at Notre Dame at Illinois MINNESOTA  49-21, w 1:35 1:00 1:00  
ArtieZiff Lee Brush  QB DB  5-8 5-10  150 183  Highlights: Defeated No. 17 California  Oct. 15  a! Wisconsin  1:00  
Matt Pike Billy Dicken Rick Trefzger Vito Speciale Terry Samuel Martin Prince John Reeves  QB QB QB K WR K QB  6-4 6-1 6-2 5-9 5-10 5-7 6-3  200 190 204 198 184 135 18  41-14 in 1992 and later that season defeated Indiana 13-10 to capture the Old Oaken Bucket  Oct. 22J: Oct. 29  atOhio State IOWA MICHIGAN  12:30 1:00 1:00 1:00  
Brian Goehl  LB  6-1  215  1:00  
Otto Mann  WR  6-0  140  
Joe Hagins  LB  6-0  204  
Eric Haddad  RB  6-1  220  
Kirk Olivadotti  WR  5-10  1n  
Ryan Watrous Curtis Taylor  DB RB  6-0 6-2  167 190  FR  LAST TIME  RECORDS  
Billy Chapman  WR  6-2  185  FR  
Arvia Cooper  RB  5-11  205  FR  
Brian Lohman Reggie Johnson  s DB  6-1 5-11  205 194  SR so  Notre Dame 17  ND leads 42-21-2  
Jorge Flores Derrick Brown  WR DB  5-8 5-11  183 170  SR FR  Purdue 0  Last ND win  
Ryan Phipps Sideshow Raheem  DB FB  5-10 5-11  194 180  SR SR  17-0, 1993  
Kevin Sellers Chike Okeafor  RB LB  5-9 6-4  233 225  JR FR  Brian Hamilton (right)  Last Purdue win  
Troy McClure Lee Johnson  LB RB  6-1 6-1  185 195  JR FR  recovered two fumbles,  35-17,1985  
Dartanian Sanders Edwin Watson  RB RB  5-9 6-0  220 210  JR FR  including one for a  Streak 8 by ND  
Joe DiBella Aaron Hall  RB LB  5-11 6-1  224 235  JR JR  touchdown to help the  At Notre Dame Stadium  
Mike Alstott Dwight Smith  RB RB  6-1 5-11  241 216  JR JR  Irish escape rain-soaked  Notre Dame has won 17  
Matt Kingsbury Jimbo Jones  DE DB  6-0 5-10  234 160  SR so  Ross-Ade Stadium.  of 26 games at home  
Kendall Matthews Corey Rogers  RB RB  6-0 5-10  190 210  so SR  against Purdue.  
Jim Maciag  LB  6-1  225  SR  
Dirk Handlin  LB  6-2  231  JR  
Mike Anderson  RB  6-0  226  SR  
Chris Koeppen  LB  5-9  223  JA  
Scott Dobbins  DE  6-1  235  so  
Jayme Washel  DT  6-2  265  JR  
John Hoogendoorn Jon Krick  OL DT  6-5 6-2  257 287  so JR  • •  
Mark Fischer  OL  6-4  256  so  
Bart Conley  LB  6-3  225  JR  
Darnell Howard  DE  6-2  256  so  
Mike Szany Craig Williams Ben Metzger Ernie Pritchett Dina Kaklis Selma Bouvier  OT DE DT DT s NG  6-3 6-3 6-3 6-1 6-1 5-11  278 232 251 299 236 250  SA JR SA JR JR SR  SE  4-Burt Thornton, 6-2, 202, SR 24-Kirk Olivadotti, 5"10, 177, JA  PURDUE OFFENSE  PURDUE DEFENSE  LE  42-Matt Kingsbury, 6-0, 234, SR 56-Darnell Howard, 6-2, 256, SO  
Leo Perez Damon Lewis Peter VanderWeele  OL OL OT  6-2 6-2 6-6  286 340 265  so so FR  QT ·  79-Ryan Grigson, 6-6, 290, SR 52-J. Hoogendoorn, 6-5, 277, SO  LT  51-Jayme Washel, 6·2, 265, JR 75-Eric Gray, 6-3, 256, SA  
Bob O'Connor Marvin Monroe  LB DT  6-0 5-11  224 255  JR SR  QG  64-Damon Lewis, 6·2, 340, SO  AT  53-Jon Krick, 6·2, 287, JR  
Steve Powell  OT  6-5  280  SR  54-Mark Fischer, 6·4, 256, SO  59-Ben Metzger, 6·3, 251, SA  
Alfie Hill Chris Sedoris  OT OG  6-3 6-4  300 267  SR SR  C  72-Emett Zitelli, 6·2, 265, JR  RE  99-M. Burchfield, 6-5, 247, JR  
Derrell Coleman Mike Cardona Emmett Zitelli  OG OT c  6-4 6-3 6-2  304 288 265  SA SR JR  SG  78-Brian Nic/ey, 6-6, 260, SO .69-Chris Sedoris, 6-4, 267, SR  SLB  58-Craig Williams, 6-3, 232, JA 39-Aaron Hall, 6-1,235, JR  
Paul Miller Mark Secrest Eric Gray  DT OL DT  6-0 6-4 6-3  259 247 256  JR SR SR  ST  57-Mike Szany, 6·3, 278, SA 71-Mike Cardons, 6·3, 228, SR  -MLB  66-Bob O'Connor, 6·0, 224, JA 55-Bart Conley, 6·3, 225, JR  
Dan Maly Chris Hill  OL OL  6-6 6-6  260 273  so so  68-Aifie Hill, 6-3, 300, SA  45-Jim Maciag, 6-1, 225, SA  
Lionel Hutz  NG  6-4  280  JR  TE  93-C. Stephens, 6-4, 247, SR  WLB 8-Romond Ballen, 5-11,231, SR  
Brian Nicley Ryan Grigson  c OT  c·B 6-6  260 290  so SR  89-Steve Powell, 6-5, 280, SA  34-Chike Okeafor, 6-5, 233, FA  
Brian Alford  WR  6-1  183  so  FL  1-Craig Allen, 6·1, 175, JR  LCB  2-John Jackson, 5·7, 181, SR  
Brandon Jewell Bill Welklinski  DE DE  6-2 6-5  245 236  so SR  16-Terry Samuel, 5-10, 184, SA  22-Bobby Owens, 5-10, 178, JA  
Isaac Jones Jon Blackman Scott Green  WR TE TE  6-2 6-6 6-3  175 254 249  FR so SR  QB  13-Rick Trefzger, 6-2, 204, JR 12-Billy Dicken, 6-1, 190, SO  SS  29-R. Johnson, 5-11, 194, SO 32-Ayan Phipps, 5-10, 194, SR  
David Woodfork Quentin Blakley Brad Babich  TE DE K  6-6 6-5 6-1  241 220 214  JR FR JR  FB  4o-Mike Alstott, 6-1,241, JR 47-Mike Anderson, 6·0, 226, SA  FS  19-Joe Hagins, 6-0, 204, SO 28-Brian Lohman, 6-1, 205, SR  
Cha~ie Stephens Jay Wittig Greg Smith  6-4 6-5  247 255 238  SR SR so  =, TB  44-Corey Rogers, 5-10,210, SR 43-Kendall Matthews, 6·0, 190, SO  RCB 31-Derrick Brown, 5-9, 170, FR 6-Kevin McGrew, 5·9, 183, SA  
Mike Ulinski  190  SR  
247  JR  



FIGHTING IRISH 
------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------~----~---------------------­
The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA Friday, September 23, 1994 
·I 
a II • 

Opp NO Blunt 6.0 3 18 6.0 0 7 Edwards 0 0-0 0 0 6 
First Downs 59 71 Powlus 2.7 19 8 0.4 0 16 Farmer 0 0-0 0 0 6 by rushing 24 34 Miller 0 0-0 0 0 6 by passing 29 32 PASSING Cornp Att % Vds TO In! Lg Stafford 0 0-0 0 0 6 by penalty 6 5 Powlus 43 81 53.1 639 8 4 46 Zellars 0 0-0 0 0 6 
yardage 960 1241 Krug 1 100 7 1 0 7 Offensive plays 210 214 FIELD GOALS 0-39 4Q-49 50+ Tot Avg. yards per play 4.57 5.80 RECEIVING No Vds Avg TO Lg Schroffner 1-1 0-0 0-0 1-1 Total yards per game 320.0 413.7 Mayes 14 230 16.4 4 46 
Rushing yards 362 595 Miller 13 208 16.0 1 46 PUNTING No Avg Bk Lg Rushing plays 121 132 Stafford 6 82 13.7 1 23 Ford 12 41.4 0 61 Rushing yards per game 120.7 198.3 Zellars 4 54 13.5 1 21 
Passing yards 598 646 Mosley 3 28 9.3 0 13 INTERCEPTIONS No Vds TO Lg Passes completed 55 44 Becton 2 ~ 11~ ~ Taylor 1 38 0 38 Passes attempted 89 82 Davis 11 0 11 Passes intercepted 3 4 ALL-PURPOSE Rush Rec Ret Tot Avg Wooden 7 0 7 Passing yards per game 199.3 215.3 Miller 20 208 151 379 126.3 
Fumbles I fumbles lost 10/3 7/4 DEFENSE A Tot FR PBU BK Sac
Mayes 0 230 0 230 76.7 15/101 23/159 Magee 6 21 0 1 0 0.0
Zellars 117 54 59 230 76.7 
2Q-38

12-43 Becton 182 22 0 204 68.0 Goheen 7 21 1 0 0 1.0 
27.9 52.6 Sample 4 18 0 0 0 2.0
Kinder 145 0 0 145 48.3 4-4 1-3 Stafford 0 82 0 82 27.3 Nau 6 18 0 0 0 3.0 percentage 100 33.3 Gibson 7 18 1 0 0 1.0
Edwards 79 0 0 79 26.3 Farmer 22 15 14 51 17.0 
Grasmanis 9 17 0 0 0 1.5 INDIVIDUAL STATS Wynn 8 16 0 0 0 1.0
Mosley 0 28 22 50 16.7 RUSHING Vds/Gm No Vds Avg TO Lg Davis 3 15 0 0 0.0 
60.7 35 182 5.2 2 37 Hamilton 6 14 1 0 1.0
PAT PAT 

48.3 27 145 5.4 0 15 Wooden 2 13 0 4 0 0.0
SCORING TO x2 x1 FG Sat Pis Mayes 4 0 0-0 0 0 24 0 2.0
39.0 26 117 4.5 0 ~ Berry 5 13 0 0 
26.3 10 79 7.9 1 18 Becton 3 0 0-0 0 0 18 Taylor 5 12 0 2 1 0.0 
7.3 7 0 11 Cobbins 2 10 0 0 0 0.0
Schroffner 0 0 12-12 1 0 15 
6.7 2 0 14 Tatum 0 5 0 0 0 1.0 
....

.. ." 
Pos. HI. WI. Derrick Mayes WR 6-1 205

LOU HOLTZ 
LeShane Saddler s 5-11 196 Dan Farrell WR 6-0 166 Rob Powlus QB 6-4 218 Lee Becton RB 6-0 191

Ninth season at Notre Dame Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 179 
6 Mike Miller WR 5-7 160
Career Record at ND: 79-20-1 Leon Blunt QB 5-9 173 
Ivory Covinglon DB 5-11 160

Against Purdue: 8-0 
LaRon Moore CB 5-9 193 Mike Perona QB 6-1 186

Highlights: Won the 1988 national 
Larry Wright ATH 5-11 190 Tom Krug QB 6-5 199

championship and finished second in 
Gus Ornstein QB 6-5 210 FA Scott Cengia K 5-9 167 FA

both 1989 and 1993. Brian Ford 6-4 193 so 

IRISH IRISH· 
so-oscar ;~~~;~:~~5, 21~-:;;;1 OFFENSE DEFENSE 
98-Pete Chryplewicz, 6-4, 267, JR I 
76-Jeremy Akers, 6-4, 296, JA 
I 
69-David Quist, 6-4, 289, JR 72-Ayan Leahy, 6-3, 290, SA I 64-Steve Misetic, 6-4, 291, JR 
I 
3-Aon Powlus, 6-2,217, SO ; 11-Thomas Krug, 6-4, 200, SO ~, 67-Mark Zataveski, 6-5, 283, SA 
""""'~ 

50-Greg Stec, 6-1, 265, SR j ')t< ~~' n-Dusty Zeigler, 6-5, 286, JA I >< ~ 53-Jim Kordas, 6-5, 271, SR 
T 73-Mike McGlinn, 6-5, 297, SA . >< >< 


70-Mike Doughty, 6-7, 296, SR 6-Mike Miller, 5·6, 159, SA 5-Emmett Mosley, 5-8, 182, SO 1-Derrick Mayes, 6-0, 199, JA 24-Charles Stafford, 5-9, 187, SR 25-Aandy Kinder, 6-0, 207, SO 
........,_, 
....,..,.,., 
p John Bishop CB 6-0 171 so Paul Rogers QB 6-1 204 so Allen Rossum DB 5-9 175 FA Brian Perry s 6-1 197 so Mark McKenna QB 5-10 188 so Brian Magee s 5-10 201 JR Anthony Swiney CB 5-11 180 so Malcom Johnson WR 6-5 193 FA Bobby Taylor CB 6-3 201 JR Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 183 SA Charles Stafford WR 5-10 183 SA Randy Kinder RB 6-1 200 so Mark Monahan s 6-0 178 JR Tracy Graham CB 5-10 190 SA Ken Barry RB 6-1 195 FA Brian Meter CB 5-7 152 SA Jarvis Edison DB 6-5 210 FA Robert Farmer RB 6-1 210 so Clement Stokes RB 6-0 200 FA John Mclaughlin DB 6-4 225 FA Ray Zellars RB 5-11 221 SA Richard Rolle WR 6-1 159 FA Jeremy Sample LB 5-11 223 SA Travis Davis s 6-0 197 SA Sim Stokes CB 6-2 191 so Kinnon Tatum LB 6-1 209 so Kevin Carretta LB 6-1 227 JR Joe Sabey LB 6-2 225 JR Alton Maiden LB 6-4 248 SA Bill Wagasy LB 6-2 228 JR Marc Edwards RB 6-2 221 so Jeff Kilburg DE 6-4 258 so Bill Mitoulas LB 6-0 210 FA Renaldo Wynn LB 6-3 254 JR Lyron Cobbins LB 6-2 230 so Greg Stec c 6-2 265 SA Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 245 so Germaine Holden DE 6-4 252 SA Jim Kordas OG 6-5 269 SA Justin Goheen LB 6-2 228 SA Oliver Gibson NG 6-3 275 SR Steve Annbruster c 6-0 220 SA Rick Kaczenski c 6-4 251 so Jeremy Nau LB 6-4 226 SA Jon Bergman LB 6-1 220 SA Bert Berry LB 6-4 ~1 so Jeff Kramer LB 6-3 215 FA Mike McCullough OG 6-3 295 JR Mike O'Donovan LB 6-2 210 SA

T 9o-Brian Hamilton, 6-3, 288, SA Steve Misetic OG 6-5 280 
JR Brett Galley LB 5-9 188 so

99-Ciiff Stroud, 6-3, 282, JR 
Kurt Belisle LB 6-3 220 FA

NG 55-0liver Gibson, 6-2, 275, SA Mark Zataveski c 6-6 300 SA 
Paul Mickelbart OL 6-4 265 FA

42-Aiton Maiden, 6-2, 259, JR 
David Quist OT 6-5 264 JR

T : 93-Paul Grasmanis, 6-3, 286, JA Mike McGlinn OT 6-6 285 SA Herb Gibson OT 6-5 309 SA
52-Germaine Holden, 6-3, 271, SR 
Ryan Leahy OG 6-4 285 SA OLB 58-Jeremy Nau, 6-4, 233, SA Mike Doughty OT 6-8 280 so Will Lyell c 6-5 274 JR
60-Bertrand Berry, 6-2, 228, SO Chris Clevenger OT 6-7 250 so ILB 54-Justin Goheen, 6-3, 235, SR Jeremy Akers OT 6-5 286 SA 
Dusty Zeigler OG 6-6 264 JR

49-Lyron Cobbins, 6-0, 234, SO Jon Spickelmier OL FA
6-4 250 Damian Peter OL 6-7 295 FA

ILB 36-Jeremy Sample, 5-11, 229, SA 
Oscar McBride TE 6-5 258 SA

39-Kinnon Tatum, 5-11,214, SO John Lynch WR 6-2 188 JR 
Joe Carrol WR 5-10 182 SA

OLB 48-Aenaldo Wynn, 6-3, 244, JA ! 
Mike Oenvir TE 6-3 231 so

95-Corey Bennett, 6-1, 220, FR I Dan McConnell WR 5-10 178 JR 
Ben Herrig WR 5-10 168 JR

CB 22-Shawn Wooden, 5-10, 190, SA ! 
Ben Foos DE 6-4 244 JR 

8-lvory Covington, 5-11, 160, FR : Cikai Champion WR 5-11 176 so Leon Wallace TE 6-3 275 JR
SS 37-Travis Davis, 6-0, 198, SA l! Ty Goode WR 6-1 173 FA 2-LeShane Saddler, 5-10, 197, SR , 
Brian Hamilton DE 6-3 276 SA Darnell Smith DE 6-5 265 soFS 17-Brian Magee, 5·9, 204, JA I Luke Petitgout TE 6-7 260 FA 
Paul Grasmanis NG 6-3 277 JR

31-Robert Farmer, 6-1,210, SO 18-Cikai Champion, 5-9, 188, SO 1 
Reggie Fleurima NG 6-3 266 SA

34-Aay Zellars, 5-11,233, SA CB 21-BobbyTaylor, 6-3,214, JA Corey Bennett 6-2 205 FA 
Stefan Schroffner 5-9 164 SA

44-Mark Edwards, 6-0, 228, SO 15-AIIen Rossum, 5-9, 175, FR 
Corey Redder 6-2 215 FA 
Pete Chryplewicz JR 
Cliff Stroud JR 

.. -_!L -'"_u -· .. 
-~---~--­

Friday, September 23, 1994 
Kinder 
continued from pagel 
Keith Jackson. college football announcing guru, would say. 
Of course. these words are of­ten followed by, "Look out, there he goes. Ohhh, Nellie! What a hummmdinger of a run­ning back." 
K
inder electrifies crowds with his speed, punishes defenders with his power, and inspires teammates with his leadership. 
Leadership, that is, which he has had to display much earlier than anyone expected. 
It wasn't supposed to happen this way. The plan was to have Lee Becton, the war-tested vet­eran, carefully showing the ropes to his teammate while amassing continuous one hun­dred-yard rushing games en route to a Heisman Trophy. 
Then. at the end of the sea­son, a changing of the guard would take place, with Kinder receiving the baton from his mentor and promising to uphold the tradition of great Notre Dame tailbacks. 
But things rarely go as planned. Now, Lee Becton sits on the sideline for three to four weeks with a hip injury, his hopes for a Heisman dashed. The student, meanwhile, takes his teacher's place in the Irish backfield. 
"We hate to see Lee out for any stretch of time," Kinder 
I -said. "We have a lot of great backs. though, and hopefully, with the help from Emmett Mosley, we can make up for missing Lee." 
Mosley, a sophomore flanker, was switched to tailback this week to add more depth to the Irish backfield. 
"We will really miss Lee Becton," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "Emmett Mosley will play some tailback this week along with Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer, but Kinder will definitely start." 
While Mosley will add depth to the backfield, he will not make up for the loss of Becton. Kinder starting, however, may be the shot in the arm that the Irish running game needs. 
"I mentioned last week that I had talked to Lee and I felt we would see the real Becton, but then this happened," Holtz con­tinued. "Missing him for the next four weeks will be dis­appointing. But I thought Randy Kinder came in at a cru­cial time and ran real hard last week. He really gave us a lift." 
A lift is a definite understate­ment. Kinder jolted life into the lackluster Notre Dame offense last week, rushing for 102 yards in the second half alone to help drive the Irish past the Spartans. 
"It was like a dream come true for me," Kinder said of his 18-carry, 104-yard game. "I grew up there and I can re­member going to Michigan State games as a kid. I had a chance to play in Spartan Stadium once in a high school All-Star game, but I didn't do too well. It was nice to come back with a good perfor­mance." 
L
ucky for Notre Dame, last weekend's performance was his last in East Lansing. If he was a Spartan, 
he could be looking at 11 more games on the kelly-green turf in two seasons. 
Kinder was heavily recruited by George Perles and Michigan State, but rejected his home­town courters in favor of the Irish. He even said no to Gary Moeller and Michigan in order to wear the gold helmet. 
"I really never even consid­ered Notre Dame until the sum­mer of my junior year," Kinder said. "I never thought they were interested in me. Then some magazine guy told me they might come look at me. It was like lightning struck." 
Lightning struck when Kinder arrived at Notre Dame. Though he was overshadowed in the preseason by fellow recruit Ron Powlus, the tailback quickly made a name for himself. 
It started with a 94-yard rushing day at home against Michigan State last year. lt continued with an 18-carry, 65­yard rushing day in the rain at Purdue. And it culminated with his first caree r start at Stanford, where he turned 16 carries into 104 yards. 
And this was during the spell that Becton saw limited action because of a hamstring injury. 
Defenses had no excuses. They could not say they were keying on the master. They were simply beaten by the stu­dent. 
Kinder seemed ready to un­seat his teammate as the start­ing tailback at this point last season, but the coaches pulled the reins back. Instead. he watched with content as Becton wove a string of seven straight 100-yard rushing games to end last season. 
Meanwhile, Kinder stumbled 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Randy Kinder rushes past the Pitt defense last season on the way to the first touchdown of his college career. 
through the tail end of the schedule. gaining only 32 yards on seven carries in the final three and most important three games of the season. 
I
t just showed that he still had a lot of experience to gain and more to learn from his mentor. 
"Lee Becton has taught me a lot," Kinder said. "He's a great back. He's not really fast. but he makes people miss. lie just gets the job done. 
"His demeanor is amazing. Here he is a Heisman candi­date, but he just plays it cool." 
This demeanor has rubbed ofT on Kinder. The sophomore has nobly taken the starting tail­back role without telling the world of his accomplishment. His work ethic would not allow him to be happy with just being on the field. 
"We have to get our running game going, because we haven't played Notre Dame football," he said. "Last year was the same situation until the Michigan State game when we got it going on the ground." 
If the Irish are to pick up the slack in the running game, Kinder will be the key. That is. at least for the next three to four weeks. But who knows, there has to be a changing of the guard sometime. 
"Lee is terrific," he said. "I feel fortunate to have played behind him." 
Or in his place. 

ATTENTION ALL WING LOVERS! 

~ lrQWQ ~({;If~~IID~ 
ID)~If11~ 


Wfi@~® 

CUJ~rnm~~ 



Join the Wings Etc. Team! 
NOW 






HIRING! 
•Bartender 
(Beer & Soda Only) 
• Servers 
(Must be 21) 
•Cooks •Dishwasher 
(We have amachine!) 
•Hostess/Host 
Full or Part Time 
No experience necessary! Apply within! 
AsK ABouT OuR WALL OF FLAME 
University Center 6502 N. Grape Rd. Phone 273-0088 

page 7 

The Elephant Men 
Fullbacks Ray Zellars and Marc Edwards give Notre Dame's ground ­game a rugged reputation • by Rian Akey 


en Notre Dame running backs 
oach Earle Mosley refers to 


rish fullbacks Ray Zellars and Marc Edwards as "The Elephant Backfield," you know he means it in the nicest possible way. 
After all. it was Mosley's first year at Notre Dame when Jerome Bettis lum­bered and trampled his way through Irish opponents and all the way to the NFL. 
And while Zellars and Edwards may not be rushing for the Rams any time in the immediate future, Mosley's label puts them in deserved good company. 
While the duo is currently considered one of the top fullback tandems in the country, each has taken a different track enroute to his present position on the Irish depth charts. 
Zellars spent his freshman and sopho­more seasons looking up to Bettis before emerging as a top offensive threat last season. 
But even though he was a fulltime 
gled even before tailback Lee Becton's 
The Observer/Michael Hungeling 
Marc Edwards plunges across the goal line for his ninth career touchdown. He scored eight in 1993, a Notre Dame freshman record. 
starter with five touchdowns last year, Zellars admits that he may not have been at his best. 
"Last year I didn't understand the importance of little things, like position­ing," said Zellars. "This year I do." 
"I've had good blocking, but there's still room for improvement." 
Edwards, on the other hand, made an immediate impact as a freshman last season. 
His eight rushing touchdowns in 1993 are the most ever for an Irish freshman. 
While Edwards may not have had Reggie Brooks to aspire to, he still con­siders the upperclassmen as important contributors to his development. Much of the credit for his success last year Edwards gives to Zellars and senior full­back Dean Lytle. 
"Ray and Dean were ahead of me and they were both great leaders." said Edwards. 
"The fact that I was so successful as a freshman had a lot to do with all the 
The Observer/Michael Hungeling 

Ray Zellars' trademark: Breaking through the defensive line for extra yards. 
"Ray Zellars is a mentor to me, even off the field. He's like an older brother." 
Likewise, Zellars recognizes the friendship that has developed between the two. 
"We've really bonded," said Zellars. "We're friends off the field, too." But Zellars downplays his influence on Edwards' performance. 
"I tried to help him when he needed it," said Zellars, "but he came in here rated very highly and he picked things up pretty fast." 
R
egardless of which player had the quicker start to his college career, both Zellars and Edwards realize that the time for development is over. 
An Irish ground attack which strug­
• •r... ·.· . •-.. r ~ . c 
THE EDWARDS FILE 

Career carries: 50 Career yardage: 266 Average yards per carry: 5.32 Touchdowns: 9 Long play: 27 yards Quotable: "I tried to help him when he needed it, but he picked things up pretty fast." -Ray Zellars 

THE ZELLARS FILE 
Career carries: 157 Career yardage: 786 Average yards per carry: 5.00 Touchdowns: 5 Long play: 2 9 yards Quotable: "Ray Zellars is a mentor to me, even off the field. He's like an older brother." -Marc Edwards 
injury now demands even more from its top two fullbacks. 
"We know we'll be carrying the ball a bit more now," said Zellars. 
And while Zellars and Edwards may see more action, that will be one of the easier transitions for the pair to make. 
In fact, against Purdue on Saturday the two may no longer be a pair, since Zellars spent part of the week working out at the tailback position. 
Anyone who saw the difficulties Zellars had in making the move from ­tailback, which he played in high school, to fullback may have some concern about the sudden switch back to tail­back. 
But head coach Lou Holtz seems uncharacteristically confident. 
"It is a difficult move," said Holtz, "but Ray has been with us awhile and he's a smart player." 
nd in addition to playing a new 
position, Zellars has another new 
ole on the team. 

With Becton and offensive tackle Ryan Leahy both sidelined, the Irish lose both of their offensive captains, making Zellars an impromtu leader. 
"With both Lee and Ryan out, Mark Zataveski and I are the assigned offen­sive captains," said Zellars, "but there are also more leadership roles for [Edwards] and I in the backfield." 
Though Edwards recognizes the sig-­nificance of his sudden leadership posi­tion. he is confident that his teammates in the backfield will do much more than merely back him up. 
"We've got five backs right now who can do the job," said Edwards. "And we'll do it without Lee." 
"We know we'll be counted on more without Lee," said Zellars, "but we'll just have to go out there and step in and do the job." 
And while pre-game promises some­times prove to be overblown hype. it's easv to believe in ZPllars' and Edwards' con.fidence. 
When the elephant men let words slip away. you know they'rp worth more than peanuts. 
.------------~-­
-
-
-
Friday, September 23, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
•JOCK STRIP 
Clueless Colletta thinks Purdue 'men' can defeat Notre Dame 
J
im Colletta really doesn't have much of clue. Here is Purdue's coach analyzing Saturday's Boiler-maker/Irish clash at Notre Dame Stadium: "This is going to be a case of men 
playing men." Alll-righty then. If Coach Colletta means that the 
against you, rally the troops'? And, of course, compliment your opponent. 
"Purdue's defensive line is very simi-Jar to the Chicago Bears defensive scheme or the Miami scheme and they play it very, very well." 
I'm not certain a comparison to the Bears is a compliment, but the Miami 
majority of players on both squads have  George  comment sure is.  
reached the legal age of adulthood. he is  Dohrmann  Here is another Holtz dandy:  
correct.  With the exception of Notre  Sports Editor  "What concerns me the most is our  

Dame wideout Malcolm Johnson (who turned 17 a few weeks ago but looks about 12) all the athletes on the field Saturday can vote, are eligible for the draft and able to buy not only cigarettes but chew from 7-Eleven. Yes indeed. They are men. 
Now if Colletta means that Saturday's game 
will be a clash of similar talents, he may have smoked one to many. You would think someone who coached at Purdue. who's athletic tradition is overshadowed by a heinously large drum, would subscribe to the Lou Holtz school of pes­simism. 
Play the underdog, say things like, "This is going to be a case of men playing with little toys, like Lou Holtz playing with Legos." 
There is no reason to believe Purdue is going to be as simple to beat as piecing together a Lego house. I mean some Lego configurations can be quite complicated. Take for example space Legos. Without the instructions even the manliest of men would be baffled trying to build one of the deluxe spacecrafts. And Coach Holtz doesn't have instructions. 
Holtz also is missing tailback Lee Becton and Ryan Leahy. Two factors which contributed to a terrible week of practice for the offense, accord­ing to Notre Dame's coach. 
Unlike Colletto, Holtz uses their absence to badmouth his squad. Why not stack the cards 
"The best delivered pizza on campus." 
-The Observer, '93-'94 
"Fastest growing small business." 
-Business Week '94 

"'Best delivered pizza in Michiana." 
-Best in Michiana Now Contest '94 

ability to run the football and Purdue's ability to run the football. The team that can run the football best will almost invariably win the football game, particularly in the Midwest." 
Why can't Colletta think up some of this great baloney. Tell all the Boilermakers are a feeble squad who can't compete with the mighty Irish. 
Last year a wet and sloppy Ross Ade Stadium provided the perfect setting for the upset that almost was. 
If Brian Hamilton hadn't been bumbling, stumbling and flopping his way to the endzone in the fourth quarter who knows what could have been. 
Notre Dame's offense couldn't do a thing in the slop and that was when we had an offensive line and were still playing for a national title. 
Saturday's forecast is 55 and rainy. 
Weather is Colletto's ace in the hole. But a looking at his roster is evidence that this card game is fixed. 
Purdue's coach may have seen something in the whippings his team delievered Toledo and Ball State. A pair of fine teams from the football­
rich MAC. 

His arrogance may spurn from intelligence. Is it possible he knows something we don't'? Maybe that the Purdue athletes are swifter and stronger. You never know. they are after all, 
men. 


----------~--------------. 
TEAM 
1. Florida (33) 
2. Nebraska (20) 
3. Florida St. (3) 4. Michigan (1) 

5. Penn St. (3) 6. Miami (1) 7. Colorado 8. Arizona (1) 
9. Notre Dame 10.Auburn 11.Aiabam 
12. Texas A&M 13_ North Carolina 
14. 
Virginia Tech 

15. 
Texas 

16. 
Wisconsin 


••17.Washington MICHIGAN 18·UCLAATA 19. Southern Cal 
20.0hio St. 
21. Oklahoma 

22. Washington St. 
23. 
Tennessee 

24. 
N. Carolina St. 25.1ndiana 


RECORD 
3-0-0 3-0-0 3-0-0 2-0-0 3-0-0 2-0-0 2-0-0 2-0-0 2-1-0 3-0-0 3-0-0 2-0-0 2-0-0 3-0-0 2-0-0 1-1-0 1-1-0 2-1-0 1-1-0 2-1-0 2-1-0 2-0-0 1-2-0 2-0-0 3-0-0 
POINTS 
1507 1490 1376 1336 1317 1262 1200 1115 1054 947 927 886 781 661 615 555 484 444 396 340 338 261 15 187 107 
PREV­IOUS 
1 2 3 4 6 5 7 9 8 11 12 14 16 18 17 10 19 13 20 23 21 24 15 25 

II SPORTS EXTRA STAFF EDITOR: George Dohrmann MANAGING EDTIOR: Jason Kelly ASSOCIATE EDITOR: Mike Norbut CONTRIBUTORS: Tim Sherman, Andy Cabiness GRAPHIC DESIGN: Chris Mullins 
~ ? 
•w• 
~ ~ 
-'IK \~ 



NOW HIRING 
Delivery & Imide Personnel 
•
Flexible Schedule 

•Top 
Pay 

•I
0-40 hr. schedules avail­able 

•112 
price pizza 


•EOE 

I -Gameoa; l;eciii -, I -NiffYNine~tfi -, I -Tat'BNi;ht SPeciii -, I --on;1'1"t:roe--,
HOURS: 

I 1-14" Large I I 1-16" Extra Large I I (9:00p.m. until closing) I I O$ne Top;5 I Monday-Thursday 11 :00 am. -1:00 a.m. 
1 1Topping Pizza 1 1 Two Toppings 1 1 1-14" Large 1 1 I with 2cans of Coke I I s950 I I li . p· I I 7i•.,n 14" 6 Lali·ne I
I and Breadsticks 1 oppmg 1zza ••u 
11

Friday &Sab.mlay 11 :00 a.m. -3:00 am. 
I $ DO I I I I $59.~ I I one Topp~g5 I 
Sunday Noon -1:00 a.m. 

I 10-I I ·· I I I I $11 -I
._._______ .... _______......... _______ .... _______
I Mditional Toppings 95c each. Not valid with any other coupon. I Allditional Toppings $115 each. Not valid with any other coupon. I I Allditional Toppings 95c each. Not valid with any other coupon. I Addiffonal Toppings 95c each. Not valid with any other cOilpon.J
.J .J 
-
Friday, September 23, 1994 The Observer•WEEKEND page 15 
Canada's cub rocks 
By COLLEEN HAGEN As quoted in a Music Critic February 1994 arti­cle of Raygun Two weeks ago, Limpopo rocked Magazine. cub Stonehenge with their crazy Russian vocalist Lisa folk n' roll. describes cuddle­Tonight, an all women Canadian rock core: "[Cuddle-core] band called cub will make a brief but is more of an atti­entertaining stop here at Notre Dame. tude than a way of 
On their way to New York City for playing." the College Music Journal Music After listening to Marathon, cub will play as part of The them on WVFI last Loft concert series sponsored by the night, the only way I Student Union Board (SUB). can describe them is 
Cub was formed in Vancouver, happy pop, since Canada on May 15, 1992, and has since their music isn't developed a huge following in Canada heavy on lyrics. and their popularity is growing in the "They play feel­United States. They were soon signed to good music ... kind of Vancouver's own Mint Records in makes you want to August of the same year. dance and prance 
Since then, they've released three around," according EP's, Pep, Hot Dog Day, and Volcano. to Marvin Miranda, They've also released one full length WVFI Remotes CD , Betti-Cola, and are soon to release Director. another full length CD this November. When asked 
Courtesy of Student Union Boan:t
They've appeared on six other music Miranda how he compilations since their signing in would describe the Students have no reason to complain August of 1992. band musically, he added "whimsical, anymore that no bands come to cam­
On the college scene, Betti-Cola spent kind of punk, or underground pop. pus. "It's new, it's here and it's now," several weeks in the #1 spot at college They're very poppy." according to Amanda DiGirolamo, stations around Canada, and was #2 on They have a good time with their Campus Entertainment Commissioner the CMJ import chart. They also made music, no frills, no deep, intense lyrics. for SUB. DiGiorlamo would like to see it up to #84 on the CMJ college chart. Just happy, pop that you can dance to. more students actively participate in 
Cub has played over 150 live shows With their happy lyrics and pop sound, the campus music scene. with bands such as Courtney Love's they deliver a great rock sound, com­The concert series at The Loft was a band Hole, Tsunami, DOA, and Yo La plete with distortion and thumping bass result of an article published in The Tengo. In May of 1993, cub toured lines. Observer last year regarding the stu­around Canada and the eastern United "These three Canadian women play dent body's concern over a lack of a States. irresistibly cute, hummable songs about real music scene. 
So far this year, they've toured the best friends, broken hearts, drowning 
West Coast, done a Canadian tour, and and dying, picnics, assassins and the DiGirolamo emphasizes that the currently a 35 show fall tour of the like ... there's not a loser in the bunch," bands coming to Notre Dame are the United States, Notre Dame included. describes CMJ. sort of bands that could end up as 
This weekend, they'll also be part of a Cub is made up of three Canadian another Toad the Wet Sprocket. new music and alternative music women: Lisa on vocals and bass; Sometimes all it takes is the luck to be marathon in New York City. There are Robynn on guitar; and Lisa G. on in the right place and at the right time. 350 bands involved, including two big drums. The Road Apples, Notre Dame's names like Hole and Rancid. bands cur­Lisa's vocals sound very sweet and space-age progressive-pop divas, as rently among rotation on MTV's 120 innocent, as she belts out catchy tunes deemed by a WVFI press release, will Minutes. The CMJ Music Marathon and refrains that make no sense. open up for cub. started Wednesday and will continue For example, the song Go Fish offers Tickets will be on sale for $1 at the 
through Saturday. amusing lyrics such as "Oo la-la oo-wee door, and the show starts at 9 p.m. 
Like Toad the Wet Sprocket, who cha-cha." This band is definitely some­tonight at The Loft. appeared at The Ballroom a few years thing to listen to tonight. In the future watch for more shows ago, cub is an up and coming band that Clearly, cub has the potential to make sponsored by SUB and then come out is rapidly gaining popularity. it big like bands such as Toad the Wet tonight to support cub and The 
The band members describe them­Sprocket, but it's up to the students to Roadapples, and have a great time in · · selves as "cuddle-core." give them the chance. the process. 
.. 

.. :-~ .. 
-... ­
, ... • ..; 4 ...;,.., 
_...... "'"-. 
.•:··· ..

... . . ."' :.... .·-· .;~~~-~··· ~ 
page 16 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, September 23, 1994 
Dress rehearsal for the ultimate rendezvous with destiny 

Last night, I had a rendezvous with Destiny: I gave up smoking after forty years. It's the only way I know of to re-pay the love Father Robert Griffin that's been shown to me in my recent illness. Appropriately, I 
/Jeffers Ia a /Jone[y 9od
made the decision during the Children's Hour. As Longfellow's poem points out: "Between the dusk and the day­patient feels whiplashed in try­he might be when he was dying

light/When the darkness is 

ing to catch his breath. He is young of cancer? 
beginning to lower!fhere comes quite literally drowning from Dooley felt that if he coulda pause in the day's occupation/ the fluid in his lungs. visit the Grotto, his soul wouldThat is known as the children's All this could have been a sing, though he was dying in

hour." In cafe society, the 

dress-rehearsal for my final pain. In his letter, now etchedpause in the day's occupation is curtain. This is my second in copper at the Grotto, his lan­called the cocktail hour. Even edema attack in six weeks; if it guage sings as poetry should,penal colonies take time out for happens soon again, I could be when he envisions the Grottotheir happy hour. 
pushing up daisies. "But when I covered with ice and snow on aThe resolution I arrived at in am dead, my dearest, sing no winter's day. 
my rendezvous with Destiny is sad songs for me." And am I not But Notre Dame is, for me, a

that I will give up smoking 

enjoying a new lease on life? home, as those jungle hospitals around the clock except for the And am I not at Notre Dame, were home for Dooley, healing one cigarette I will enjoy during where Dr. Tom Dooley wished children. Ill in the hospital,
the children's hour on every 

attached to life support sys­tems, I comforted my soul with thoughts of home. As Dooley remembered the priests muf­fled in their over-sized over­coats, I thought of the chil­dren's hour after Michigan State, when I sat panting for breath on a bench near the front door of Keenan-Stanford, wondering if I was dying. I remember especially the faces of students coming back from supper. Entrusting the care of my dog to them, I wondered if I would ever see Darby O'Gill or those Keenan-Stanford lads again. 
I wish I were prayerful as Dooley was, but frequently I'm prayerless except at liturgies where Christ as a prayer-pard­ner is the tie that binds. I sel­dom say the Hail Mary with the faith that moves mountains, and the Our Fathers I recite don't have enough grace in them to give them wings. But looking at the faces of friends who show me their love, I try guessing at some of the Nine Thousand Names that Christ has in the Lamb's Book of Life, trusting that the truth in those loving faces should give me a clue. The effort of that exercise is comforting, as prayer should be. 
But Dooley talked with God through his care of the chil­dren. His age, when He died, was close to the Lord's age when He died as the Messiah. Maybe God, trying to make us saints, keeps us alive until we have learned to love as much as we are loved. If that's true, I could live to be the age of a patriarch, even with edema. 
In giving up smoking, I am 

day of the year except Ash 
doing myself a favor, but it's Wednesday and Good Friday. the one thing that all my Why is the Children's Hour so friends, as well as my enemies, important to me? Because ask me to do. Maybe they will that's when I recently brushed count the pain I feel in going shoulders with the Grim without nicotine as an act of Reaper. love for them. 
Around suppertime last Woody Allen tells a story of Saturday, as the campus was two women summering in a buzzing over the score of the resort hotel. One says to the game with Michigan State, I other: "Have you noticed how thought the Iceman had come bad the food here is?" for me. In full view of the The other answers: "And North Quad, I suffered an have you noticed how little of it attack of congestive heart fail­they serve you?" ure. This means that the tick­Woody Allen says: "Life is like er, feeling like a worn-out, old that. Though it's a nightmare, it pack animal, decides it wants to scares you to see how fast it's hang up the gloves. The doctors going." This may not exactly be get busy, offering a new lease what Woody Allen said, but on life to this faithful pump on this, I think, is what he means, which the rest of the plumbing in the role he plays as a depends. In the meanwhile, the schlemiel. Even as a schlemiel, heart, having run out of moxie, all he really needs is love. does not go gentle into that That's a lesson that comes with good night, but churns in deep the territory, once you've distress and hard labor. The become part of Notre Dame. 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 


Kodak
"on the campus " Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 

-~DUCTS 
Special Hours Football Weekends! 
• 

Friday & Saturday 9am-7pm 

Friday, September 23, 1994 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 17 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
.NOTICES I  Need 2 GA's for Purdue Call Bill-272-2376  Need 1 Purdue ticket call Tom 289-3203 I need BYU GA's and student  Need 4 Purdue Tix Std./GA Andy 289-3736 I Need 3-4 Purdue GA's  Wanted 2 or 3 GA's together for BYU 10115 or Air Force 11/19 Call Lara 219/273-8961  NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR STAN­FORD --& -1 STUDENT TICKET FOR BYU -CALL JENNIE 272­0108  
TIX!!!I Please call Chris@  Call Jon x1620  I NEED STANFORD GA's  
x4485.  X4-2193  FOR SALE: 2 Purdue GA's.  
Family flying from ALASKA for 1st  273-9838.  
Help! I need two GA's to BYUII  NO game. Need 4 BYU ticks., stu.  Need Stnfrd stdnt or GA tixs, call  
Call TARA at 273-3885!1  or G.A. PLEASE! Call shannon  Chris x1197  I need 4 Stanford GA's  
291-6288  Call 234-1139  
NEED 2 STANFORD GAs WILL  I need stud. tix for Purdue. Call  
USED TEXTS CHEAP! ill  PAY BIG$$$$ CALL PAT 273­ NEEDED IMMEDIATELY: 2 GAs  Tom at 271-1390 ASAP.  Need 1 stanford tix desperately!!  
Buy & sell used books at the only  9760  FOR BYU. WILL PAY TOP$$$!  Call Eileen at x4086 to negotiate!  
hip place in town 10-6M-S/9-3Sun  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY.  CALL MARY AT 273-2926  I need Purdue GA's. Call  
PANDORA'S BOOKS  PRIVATE HOMES-ND/SMC  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Eric at 232-8337  Elp-hay! 1-hay eed-nay oo-tay An­ 
ND ave & Howard St 233-2342  EVENTS.  I NEED 2 STANFORD TIX  I NEED PURDUE GA'SI WILL PAY  ford-stay ickets-tay!l All-cay lkki­ 
219-291-7153.  Will Trade 4 Navy Tix or Pay Big  $$CONTACT LA AT 284-5132  Please! I need 4 NAVY GAs and  nay at-hay X4081.  
PAPA JOHN'S is HIRING!  Bucks.  2 STANFORD GAs!  
-delivery & inside personnel  1 & 2 BEDROOM HOMES FOR  Please help me out-Pat x3515  NEED TIX-5 BYU GA'S, 4 STAN­ Mary Beth X4220  Need 2 Navy GA's. Call287-1953  
-flexible schedule  RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS  FORD GA'S -Call Joe @ x2765  
-top pay  PROPERTIES. 272-6306  Need 2 GA's for Purdue,  Need 2 BYU GAs. PLEASE call  NEED 4 STANFORD ST. TIX  
-1 0-40 hour schedules available  Stanford, & Navy!  Need 2 STANFORD GA's  Sue at 277-8995  HEATHER x2580  
-1/2 price pizza -EOE  FOR SALE  X1421  Please call Curtis-282-2197  Help! I need two Stanford GA's call  I have 2 ND-FSU tix for swap. I  
call271-1177  Ticket Trade-I have 2 Navy GA's to  Jen at 273-0741  need S.B. hotel for Stanford, 9/30  
Downtown Book Wholesaler needs clerical &/or warehouse  RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR FOR ONLY $79 FOR TWO SEMESTERS. FOR FREE DELIV­ trade for 2 Purdue GA's call x3001 Mark  NEED 2 AIRFORCE TICKETS!! Call Christy @ 4956..............•............•............  I need 4 Navy GA's please!!!! Mark x1640  & 10/1 and/or ND-BC tix. Please call if you can help-Mike Joyce 617-479-5000  
workers flexible schedule & wkend  ERYCALL:  $$$Help! I need 2 Navy GAs.  
work 232-8500 X22  COLLEGIATE RENTALS,  Please call Usa at 277-0740. Will  1 purdue stud. ticket for sale  ND Family Reunion  Help ME'I need 2 std. tcks for BYU,  
ask for Bryan  272-5959.  pay top dollars.$$$  call matt @ 287-1449  Need 4-6 STANFORD GA's  will trade Navy std. tck-Tom x1091  
ILOST & FOUND I  486 OX IBM COMPATIBLE COM­PUTER -1 YR NEW $1,200.00 OR  NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S $$$ CALLX4570  Beautiful and desperate Mormons  Family has airfare, now we need tickets!! Call x3650  Angry Airmen need Air Force GA's. Serve your country. Call x4816.  
BEST OFFER CALL ERIC FOR  Need 3 BYU tickets-Call x2703.  HEY! Do you have 2 stu. tix or  
FOUND: Bracelet in DeBartolo; call  DETAILS 258-0536  I NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'SI Call Sean  GA's for AIR FORCE??? PLEASE  SELLING 2 STD BOOKLETS.  
Susan 277-1724  at X1432.  call Shan x4456 I  GREAT SEATS. LUIS 2731528  
Tired of walking? CLASSIC 1972  WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GA'S FOR  
••••• REWARD •••••  NOVA, 4 Dr, 61K, Auto, PS, New  Need 2 GA's for Purdue, 1 GA for  ANY 2 HOME GAME GA'S  I NEED 2 BYU GA'S  FOR SALE 1 STANFD STU  
A $250 REWARD GOES TO  Tires, Runs Great! Some rust,  Stanford. Call Sharon 273-8474.  CALL JULIE 2845516  I HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S  NEED 2 USC TIX  
ANYONE WHO CAN RETURN  $1100, Leave message 299-1774.  WILL TRADE OR BUY  X4293  
MY 1991 CANNONDALE RED  WANTED  I NEED STANFORD AND FLA ST  call chris x3913  
SHRED COMPETITION SERIES  BEAN OWNER  GA's for Stanford game.  GAs-WILL PAY$ OR WILL  FOR SALE: 3 std and 2 married std  
BIKE. A SMALLER REWARD  JAMISON INN PARTNERSHIP  288-2589  TRADE SEVERAL STUD TIX FOR  NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE AND  tlx in bklts or separately. Leave a  
GOES TO ANYONE WHO CAN  SELLING A LIMITED  ANY HOME GAME  STANFORD! CALL BOB "1233  message with your offer.  
GIVE ME REAL INFO AS TO ITS  #OF MINI-SUITE CONDOMINI­ Need 1 GA for Stanford -can pay  CHRIS 1-6696  277-3665  
WHEREABOUTS. PLEASE  UMS $65,000-70,000  $$! Call Scott x3586  Need GAs for Purdue.  
HELP ME -SOMEONE IS NOW RIDING AROUND ON MY LIFE  1 )Guaranteed Reservations 2)Six nights free per year  Need BYU TIX  $$$$$$$$ NEED ONE PURDUE GA OR  Call Pat 4622.  PERSONAL  
SAVINGS. -JANET  3)Professionally managed  Will trade Stanford tickets  STUD TIX CALL MARC 233-4008  Need 2 STANFORD GAs for dad  
x1572  4)Substantial cash return  Call Mike at (513)228-3349  $$$$$$$  and bro. TOP $$1 Anna x2286.  Seamaisin is looking for musicians  
S)Never go looking for a room for  interested in Irish music. Call 1­ 
$50 REWARD-For the return of  football games again  Need BYU TIX (prefer GAs)  NEED FSUTIX  Need 2 STANFORD GAs  7021  
or info. leading to the return of 2  Call Missy Bornheimer-Coldwell  will pay good money or will trade  SUSAN 2771724  Call Chris x3767  
CO's: Pearl Jam "No-' Messiah"  Banker Anchor 259-6317, 259­ tix to any other home game  Happy 20th Jules!  
and Nirvana "All Acoustically". 272­ 7573,  Call Dennis at (914)294-6546  NEED STANFORD STUD. TIX  Need 4 GA Stanford lix. Will trade 2  Have a great day. We'll party in the  
4021  235-3180 24hr voice mail or  CALL 234-8958.  GA Purdue tix plus cash. Call Jim  pubs in your honor. Miss you.  
Jamison Inn 277-9682  Need 3 GA's for Navy or Air Force;  @ 312-281-5779.  Love, Baker.  
WANTED  BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS  make an offer\ Paul-277-6433  NEED STANFORD GA'S MATT 257-0564  NEED 8 STANFORD TICKETS.  P.S. Seguridad  
CALL COLIN AT 273-6205  Need 1 Sranford stud .. or GA  CALL GRANT 416-865-7741.  TODAY IS BRUCE'S 45th BIRTH­ 
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  Call Nick 289-9708  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  DAY: "Someday girl, I don't know  
BREAK TRIPS\ SELL 8 TRIPS &  CONDO FOR SALE-Woodbridge­ NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA-WILL  WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'S  when, we're gonna get to that place  
GO FREEl BEST TRIPS &  Minutes from NO-end unit on pond- N~ED 2 GA BYU tlx and 2-6 GA  PAY BIG BUCKS-CHRIS 4-3095  FOR 2 BYU GA'S. CALL SIGI AT  where we really wanted to go and  
PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN,  18177F Stoneridge-2BR+Lolt,  Stanford tix. Please call Rachael  312-477-3357.  we'll walk in the sun, but 'til then  
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! GREAT  Fireplace, Att Gar w/Opener­ at#4667.  oQnly need 1 Stanford GA ticket•  tramps like us, baby we were bom  
RESUME EXPERIENCE\ 1-BD0­ $58,000-Call232-5190.  Needed ASAP  I NEED ONE AIR FORCE TICKET­ to run." J.A.J.  
678-6386!  NEED 2 GA's for NAVY &  Call Dan @ x1044  GA OR STUDENT. PLEASE CALL  
Macintosh !lsi 5-80  NEED 4 GA's for BYU  X3816. THANKS!  Jen Woo-back ...  
RESORT JOBS-Eam to $12/hr. +  14" Color Monitor  CALL Chris x-1353  FOR SALE: 3 STUD. PU TIX.  It is a tough job being sexy, but  
lips. Theme Parks, Hotels, Spas, &  $1 000 or best offer  289-9420.  I NEED 2 GAs FOR MY PARENTS  somebody has got to do itll Happy  
more. Tropical & Mountain destina­ Kory X1644  I need 2 Stanford GA's x1659 Desi  FOR PURDUE OR STANFORD...  20th birthday!! We love you,  
tions worldwide. Call (206)632-0150  WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD  PLEASE CALL TOM AT 271-9576.  Rox, Rach, Va, and Candy  
ext. R55841  FREE KITTENS-8 weeks old  DESPERATELY NEED 4 PURDUE  AND/OR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S  THANKS!  
call Nicole x4544  AND 2 BYU GA'S. WILL PAY  FOR BOSTON COLLEGE. CALL  AMANDA·  
WANTED! AMERICA'S FASTEST  $$$$$ call Brian @ x1739  AFTER 5 PM 684-1304.  I need 2 or 4 PURDUE GA's  FROM D.G, T.R., N.B., C.R., B.M.,  
GROWING TRAVEL COMPANY SEEKING INDIVIDUALS TO PRO­ TICKETS  HELP\ I NEED TIX FOR STAN­ I need 2 NAVY GAs  call Molly 271-9364  C.K., C.B., D.M. YOU'VE COME A LONG WAY!  
MOTE SPRING BREAK TO  FORD. PLEASE CALL MIKE @  Will pay Big $$$  HELP MEl NEED 3 STANFORD  HAPPY 19TH!  
JAMAICA, CANCUN, BAHAMAS,  WANTED: FOUR (4) OCT. 15 BYU  X1243  Please call Laura at  GAs BADLYl CALL DREW 232­ C.J.D. (&J.S.)  
FLORIDA, PADRE. SUPER FREE  TICKETS. CALL  284-4328  3769  
TRAVEUCOMMISSIONSI SUN  800-922-2327 JANET.  ND Alums Need Stanfd. GA's  CALL AND WISH MANDY  
SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710.  Call (313) 420-1208 or (310) 813­ I NEED 1 GA for NAVY. VERY  BROWN A HAPPY BIRTHDAY ON  
I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.  5659  ND Grad student  IMPORTANT! Brian 273-8553  SUNDAY X4938  
Learn About the latest in computer  272-6551  seeks 4 Navy GAs  
and presentation technology. Work  Need only ONE STANFORD ticket  to take family to game  NEED one stud. ticket 4 Purdue!  All the Waggish Chickens Cluck:  
part time with us inviting business  Will take anything-BIG MONEY!  Call271-7276  HELP I Kathleen 2567  HAPPY 19th CHARITY!!!  
customers to our open houses held  4 STANFORD GAs NEEDED.  Please call Diana x4939  We Love You More than  
throughout Indiana.  CALL X2875 (NICKY)  HELP! I need 1 Stanford GA (or  Need 2 PU GAs Will trade 2 Navy  Full House, K.T., Amy, & Stacy  
Call219-674-5973 8-5 M-F  HELP!!!! I NEED 1 STUDENT  married) Monica X2995  GAs call x4289  
Ask for Drew or Tom  TICKET FOR MY LITTLE  We're Open  
WANTED 3 GA EITHER ND VS  BROTHER FOR THE NAVY  Willing to buy my parents' love ...  Help! I need two Stanford Student  Early, Late, & Weekends!! I  
BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR ONE­ STAN, BYU CALL COL 215-355­ GAME. I WILL PAY A GOOD  with 2 GAs to either Stanford, BYU,  tix or GA's. My alum brother is fly­ 000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
HOUR AM EXERCISE CLASSES.  7131  PRICE. CALL ANYTIME.  or Navy! $$$$$ Erin -289-5490  ing in from California and will lock  LaFortune Student Center  
PAID POSITION PLUS FREE  ERIN X4121  me in the closet (like he did when  Phone 631-COPY  
EXERCISE MEMBERSHIP. CALL  CHEER, CHEER FOR OLD  I bet you can't sell me your 10  we were kids) if I don't have tix for  
277-0111 FOR MORE INFO.  NOTRE DAME. I would if I had tick­ Will Trade 2 STAN for 2 FSU Call  Stanford GA'sll  him! Please help! Cyndi 284-5322.  ET IN ARCADIA EGO  
ets to the Stanford game. Alum  Karen X4290  Call Jon x3367  Interested in the secret histories of  
••••• NEEDED!!! •••••  REALLY wants to retum to campus  NEED 3 STANFORD GA'S.  covert social forces? Seeking true  
WE NEED MAYA ANGELOU TICK­ with family. Student tix ok. Price  Long lost family and friends coming  I need 2 Stanford GA's Call Katie  CALL AARON X3460.  power & wealth? Fascinated by  
ETS!! CALL WITH YOUR PRICE.  negotiable. Call collect after 6 pm  for STANFORD game! Desperately  atX2845  the politics of opportunism &  
LAURA X2145 OR X2114.  (516) 499-5009.  need 7 tix! Call Donald x1844.  2 PURDUE STUD. TIX SALE  manipulation? Prepared to do what­ 
Need 2 BOSTON COLLEGE tix  $30 EACH  ever it takes to get what you  
HELP WANTED:  HELP! I need 2 TIX to the Stanford  FOR SALE: GA TIX FOR ALL  Please call Curtis-282-2197  Call Marie at X-4917  want? If this is your truth, you may  
ON CAMPUS NEWSPAPER  Gamel Call Patty at  HOME GAMES. 272-7233.  be spiritually fit to join the  
ORGANIZER AND CARRIERS  1-800-697-9141, leave message.  NAVY GA'S (2) for SALE I TRADE  Bavarian Illuminati. We will have  
NEEDED FOR NOTRE DAME AND  Please Please Please Please  Need 2 for any home game, and 7  our first meeting on  
ST. MARY'S. CONTACT CITY  WANTED: BYU GA'S WILL PAY  LOOKING TO TRADE:  I need 4 Stanford GA's  for Air Force. Matt-x1790 or 3744  Friday,Sept30,at8pminthe  
NEWS SERVICES,  BIG BUCKS. CALL KRISTEN OR  1 PURDUEGA  Will trade Navy GA's or buy.  lobby of the Architecture Building.  
232-3205 OR 288-9361. SKI RESORT JOBS -Hiring for  KATE @ 271-0224 I NEED TWO NAVY G.A.  FOR 1 STANFORD GA CALL TJ x1130  -Bryan x1190 ························•**********  NEED 2 BYU GA TIX & WILL PAY BIG BUCKS SO CALL ME 1722  Conspiratorial elitists & Machia­vellian personalities are welcome. No jokers/slackers/Discordians  
many positions lor winter quarter.  CALL MIKE X3692  Need 2 GA for Purdue  ND Alum Needs 2 STANFORD  need attend. This is a serious offer:  
Over 15,000 openings\ For more  I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL PAT  -Call Bill-272-2376  GAs, BIG $$1 Call217-337-6862  come fulfill your destiny!  
information call: (206)634-0469 ext.  NEED 3 GAs or STUD. tix for PUR­ AT 1645.  
V55841  DUE call Rob x-4333  NEED 1 MICH. 4 PUR.,  Needed 2 GA for BYU 11111111  SMC-ND STUDENTS SUMMER  
HELP!! I need 1STANFORDTICK­ + 2 STAN. STUD TIX.  Call Ryan x3662.  TRAVEL PROGRAMS LONDON  
PIZZA MAKER -PART TIME ­ I need 2-4 GAs or 1 stud. ticket for  ET (preferably student) Please call  CALL 234-8958.  AND ROME. CREDITS IN BUEC,  ....  
EAST COAST TRAINED. GOOD  any home game! Please call soon!  Wendy at x2915  I need 2 ga's to Purdue and  ED, MUSIC, HIST, & ITALIAN.  
MONEY.  Lindi-284-5151  I need 2 GA's for the Navy  Stanford. Mike 289-3203  TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOT­ 
CASSINO'S PIZZA OF NEW  PURDUE TIX AVAILABLE. WILL  Game!Call Ryan at 3333.  LAND, FRANCE, SWITZ. MEET­ 
YORK  Need GA's for Purduel Call Jeff  TRADE 2 PURDUE GAs FOR 2  WANTED: 2 GA's for 10115 or  ING OCT. 3, 6:30 CARROLL HALL  
257-1100.  X2174  STANFORD GAs. 272-9248  10/29. Call287-3909  (SMC) FOR INFO CALL PROF.  
AFTER5.  FOR SALE: 2 STD ticket booklets  A.A. BLACK-284-4460 OR 272­ 
NEED A ROOMMATE? CALL 255­ NEED 2 TICKETS FOR STAN­ (or just individual games) and 2  Help, need 1 stanford stu. or GA  3726  
2143.  FORD GAME SO PARENTS  ••• NEED 4 NAVY GAs •••  Married Student booklets (or just  call Matt X4327  
CAN SEE FIRST ND FOOTBALL  ••• DAVID x3406  games) No ID required. Call Sean  To the D.O.C. : let 'da Big Dog  
GAME. CALL MARIANNE X3295  at634-1101  Need 1 Purdue stu. tick. shannon  roam !II  
FEMALE MODELS 1 8-25 needed  FLYING OUT FROM CALIFORNIA  291-6288  
by photographer for photo/video  IHELPI need 1 GA ticket to NAVY  -DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA  Need GAs  WSND needs disc jockeys! Please  
work in lingerie and similar apparel.  game, for little brother. Call Paul  TICKETS TO STANFORD GAME!  Any Home Game  need 6 GAs for Navy call paul  call Harriet@ 1-7342.  
Call Jim at 273-7074 for info.  4-1008  (916)671-3299 KEVIN  4-3703  x3591  

.-------------------------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 23, 1994 
• SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBAU 




Belles travel to Viterbo tournament 
By KARA MASUCCI Sports Writer 
The 2-2 Saint Mary's volley­ball team takes on Toe College and Viterbo College at a tour­nament in Dubuque, Iowa, on Friday. If they win, they ad­vance to another round of play 

Golden 
continued from page 28 on Saturday. 

According to coach Julie Schroeder-Biek, the Belles are recovering from the difficult loss to Concordia University on Tuesday night. 
"Tuesday was the worst we've played, either in practice or in a game," said Schroeder-Biek. 
The problems faced on Tuesday were due in part to the lack of mental preparation, poor communication on the court, and the inexperience of the team. 
"We have been prepared to play the games," said freshman Brenda Hoban, "but not to win them. In practice this week we have been working on helping each other on the court and being mentally prepared." 
This weekend is a prime time for the Belles to redeem them­selves, according to Schroeder­Biek, because the teams in the tournament are kept unaware of each others records. 
"I like the surprise of this tour­nament," said Schroeder-Biek. "The only thing that the other teams know of our team is that we are young. Hopefully, they will underestimate our abili­ties." 
However, the Belles are going to have to handle Toe and Viterbo without key player ju­nior tri-captain Kelley Prosser. Prosser is recovering from a ankle injury that occurred at Tuesday night's game. 
"Kelly is one of our key play­ers, but we are a strong team," said freshman Meg Winkler. 
"We are an offensively strong team but the defense is weak," said Schroeder-Biek. "We are working through our problems in practice, so I'm hopeful about our abilities." 



Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room-LaFortune Student Center-631-8128 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00 pm Saturday, 8:00am-9:00pm Sunday, 9:00 am -3:00 pm 

VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! 
Friday, September 23, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll 
Spartans seek first victory 
By JEFF HOLYFIELD 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING It's a matchup straight out of a bookie's nightmare. When Miami of Ohio visits 
Michigan State on Saturday, the two teams will take the field with a combined record 
of0-4-1. 
Michigan State is coming off a heartbreaking 21-20 loss to No. 9 Notre Dame. Next week, it starts Big Ten play against defending league and Rose Bowl champ Wisconsin, now ranked No. 16. And the 0-2 Spartans have a recent history of lackluster play against smaller schools, mainly 1991 and 1992 losses at home to Central Michigan. 
On top of all that, Miami (0­2-1) has some speed and quickness on offense. tools that have proven effective against Michigan State. 
Michigan State coach George Perles said he'll have to make sure his team isn't drooping from the Notre Dame loss or already looking ahead to Wisconsin. 
"No one jumps into their trousers. And when everyone gets on that field, if the breaks go the wrong way, it can be a long afternoon for anyone," he said. 
Perles said no one has fig­ured out a way yet to bottle the emotion from one game and have it ready for the next. 
"I wish we could, but it's a difficult thing to do. The rea­son it's difficult to do is one thing we can't do is fool our­selves," he said. "We know the circumstances out there and we react to them with all the gray matter we have. It's hard to do anything more than be honest and that's what we try to do in talking to the team." 
Coach Randy Walker said his Miami team has to cut down on its mistakes after squan­dering a lead last week 


~amue~ 






ancino 'g 

ITALIAN EATERY 

Football Feast Available all Day Saturday and Sunday Monday After 4:00 p.m. 
Buy any 16" pizza with one or more toppings and for only_ $200 more you'll receive 2 -32 oz. drinks and a full loaf of Mancino's Cheese Garlic Bread or for $1.50 receive 2 -32 oz. drinks and a full loaf of Garlic Bread 
This offer is good at either ofour two locations. 
St. Andrew's Plaza LaSalle Square 620 W. Edison Rd. Suite 130 913 N. Bendix Drive Mishawaka, IN 46545 South Bend, IN 46628 254-9533 234-5817 
against archrival Cincinnati and having to rally for a 17-17 tie. 
"It's one of those games that kind of leaves a bad taste in your mouth," he said. "We really don't have a confidence level and the thing that I think that's the most distressing to us on our staff and I think our players too, is we've showed signs that we could play some good football and do some things well, but we're having trouble with consistency." 
Michigan State also has had trouble with consistency. After taking first-half leads against Kansas and Notre Dame. the Spartan offense couldn't score in the second half and the de­fense couldn't bottle up the opposition. 
"We're not running the ball enough. We're not having enough ball control. We need that in order to move the ball down the field, in order to help the passing game," said Perles. 
Tech downs UWV 
By JOE MACENKA 
Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va 
The most powerful weapon in Virginia Tech's offense strug­gled Thursday night, and it didn't matter in the least. 
Tailback Dwayne Thomas and a strong defense helped No. 14 Virginia Tech overcome a sub­par outing by quarterback Maurice DeShazo and roll to a 34-6 victory over West Virginia. 
"It's obvious our offense hasn't found its rhythm yet," Virginia Tech coach Frank Beamer said, "but the nice thing is that I know it will. These players aren't nearly as good as they're going to be, and that gives everyone of this team confidence." 
Thomas rushed 18 times for 94 yards before leaving with a sprained left ankle early in the fourth quarter, and the Hokies moved to a 4-0 start for the first time in 13 seasons. 
Virginia Tech (2-0 Big East) 
Ct-IOPSTJCKS 
CHINESE FAST FOOD We Deliver to your dorm! Mon-Thurs lla.m. -9p.m. Fri. & Sat. lla.m.-lOp.m. 
$6minimum $1 service charge for orders under $15 East Location: 525 N. Eddy St. South Bend, IN 232-1177 
registered eight sacks on West Virginia's quarterbacks, hur­ried them six other times and intercepted two passes. The Hokies also dropped Mountaineers ball carriers for losses eight times. 
"Our quarterbacks had to run for their lives so many times, it's hard to get anything go­ing," coach Don Nehlen said. 
West Virginia (1-4, 0-2) lost its third consecutive game and is off to its worst start since 1978, when the Mountaineers also began 1-4 on the way to a 2-9 mark. 
Each of the previous 12 games in the West Virginia­Virginia Tech series had been decided by 12 points or less, but the Mountaineers couldn't keep this one close. West Virginia, which got no deeper than the Virginia Tech 18 in the second half, still has a 25­14-1 edge in the series. 
"It's as frustrating as it can be," Nehlen said. "They beat us off the ball constantly." 
DeShazo, a senior who holds several school passing records, came into the game nursing a sprained ankle and a bruised hip. He underthrew receivers regularly and finished with 185 yards on 12-of-32 passing. DeShazo was intercepted three times -all by cornerback Aaron Beasley -and three other passes hit West Virginia defenders between the num­bers, only to be dropped. 
DeShazo refused to blame his 

injuries. 
''I'm not playing to my capa­bility," he said. "No one's blind. Everyone can see it. I'm doing everything I can. It just seems like I'm putting myself deeper and deeper in a hole." 
Virginia Tech broke it open by scoring 14 points in a 22-sec­ond span midway through the first quarter. 
Fullback Brian Edmonds put the Hokies ahead to stay when he hulled up the middle on a 33-yard scoring run, shaking four would-be tacklers along the way to make it 7-3. 
•· ­


282-2522 
Closed Sunday 
or try our house favorites the Grinder the Californian RJ's Club 

1•800•SUNCHASE 
NOBODY DOES SKI BREAKS BETTER! 
ND vs. FSU 
Disneyland Package 4 Days, 3 Nights, 4 Tickets, Hotel, Air $1 0/Raffle Ticket Send Check to: NO Club of Austin 1712 Amber Skyway Round Rock, Texas 78664 

---------~-~---~----------~ ----~ -----------~-­
rc ~·-.. ,~,) ). r r t c-r 1 J 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 23, 1994 





Irish find strengths in preseason games 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
Sports Writer 
Last year, after all others had .left the ND campus, the Irish .• softball team was playing in the ·NCAA regional championships. 
And this year, they are de­

. termined to prove that it was ..,'everything but a fluke by going . again. · The fall preseason has begun 
for the Irish, the time when th.e pace is set for spring confer­ence play. 
The softball team has im­mense amounts of talents, but they cannot agree as to where their strengths lie. 
"We've got big bats this year," said senior captain Liz Goetz. 

"I was pleased with our de­fense," said Head Coach Liz Miller. 
"We have four really good pitchers this year, and a fifth recovering from an injury. That's our strength," said an­other team member. 
They may all be correct, and after the fall, the MCC is going to have a hard time holding the Irish and their spirit down. 
This past weekend, the Irish shutout Ball State 1-0 and 4-0 and Grace College 19-0. More notable than the scores, how­ever, were the position changes made to replace those that graduated, especially the move of senior co-captain Andi Keys to first base and Kara McMahon to third. Both played well on Saturday, and accord­ing to Miller will most likely stay there. 
Also standing out was a re­
markable  performance  by  
freshman  center  fielder  
Jennifer  Giampaolo .  

Giampaolo had three triples, two doubles, and two singles over the three games, and an impressive fielding perfor­mance topped by a diving catch in the last game. 
The pitching staff responsible for the shutouts is much larger than last year's, which was plagued by injuries. While ju­nior Terry Kobata still heals a residual injury from last season and sophomore Andrea Rohler works to rebuild after a broken finger, sophomore Joy Battersby and freshman Kelly Nichols have stepped up and improved their pitching, which both showed last weekend. 
"It was the strongest I've ever seen her pitch," Miller said of Battersby. 
Notre Dame softball has al­ways had a stubborn defense, according to senior second baseman Michele Cline, and this year will be no different. "People will need to get legiti­mate hits because of our solid defense. We won't give up any­thing cheap." 
That statement will be put to the test this weekend as the team travels to a three day, 24 team tournament in Rock Island, Ill., with eight of those teams also going to the NCAA regional tourney last year . 
"It will be good to see if we can step up to the challenge," said Miller. 
After working hard on batting technique and running drills, the team will concentrate on the individual techniques for the rest of the preseason. And when spring comes, in the words of Goetz, "We're going to surprise a lot of people." 


"<-·• 
"It was an experience I'll remember for the rest of my life. An opportunity to not only watch and learn from some of the most skilled professionals in the field, bm to work alongside them in pursuit of a common goal: finding better solutions to real client problems. 
.\Iy name is Joe Bergan, and it was all parr of my summer internship at Ernst & Young Chicago. I've accepted Ernst & )oung's otTer to join their Chicago office upon graduation. 
In only one summer, I developed more technical skills and knmdedge of corporate taxation and auditing than I ever did from simply studying about them. But the thing that surprised me most is that technical know-how isn't necessarily what leads to the best business and accounting solutions. These are simply the tools of the 
trade. The real execution C0111es from the people: Synergy that develops from shared expertise and the desire to find not only a solu­
tion that works, but the ideal solution for each client's particular need. 
Of course, as I say this I realize it may not sound all that excit­ing to you. But for me, as a summer intern, the "team" concept is what helped me to learn and grow so much. There's always someone close by ready and willing to offer their expertise. 
I began by working in healthcare and moved on to corporate finance. The responsibilities given me were much the same as those of a first year staff member. And I was encouraged to feel as if I were one. The work was real and the performance expected from me was equal to what I expect from myself. And believe me, that's a lot. 
I guess what I'm saying is, if you have the opportunity, I'd highly recommend exploring Ernst & Young. The challenges I faced, I never faced alone. 'I'he experience I gained is the most rewarding I've ever had. 
Which is why !understand now there actually is strength in numbers." 
E!/ ERNST &YOUNG LLP 
~------~----~~~-­
-~~-~-----~ 
l 
1 
I 

Friday, September 23, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• 
Novice Rowers -Pracice · gins Wednesday at 4;30 and ,}(Jl(UtltthEl.r 
5:45. Meet at the main circle. and bring insurance forms. I not too late to join. Just show up Wednesday, Thursday;t 
Friday. .,;'> 
Men•s Boxing_Club:,.• First ••• this Friday Sept. 23 at 4:00, Gym in JACC. For more info :•]~· Jeff Goddard 287-8041. .,;;t~t 
Horse Back Riding Tr~.H < Ride: Sunday, October ?. ~t • 11:00, 12:00, 1:00, 2:00, 3:00. No experience necessary and transportation will be provid­ed . The bus will leave tbe Library Circle thirty 
5 
mile .. 
--~-!l"e~uuit!'!Y' 'lT>i-Sibirts 1:o;a,u fioish1er~ 
s swinging, 
She's single & not a teenager anymore. 
Call Julie 
at x:32:32 
&wish her a Happy Birthday 
Love, 
E, Donz, Beth & Moni 



The Morris Inn 
welcomes you 

Every Football Saturday 
Pre/Postgame gathering on campus All activities start at 9 a.m. and continue throughout the day 
Brats• Burgers• Hot Dogs Beverages • Hot Roasted Almonds Gift Shop • Big Screen TV s 
Tents for Inclement Weather 
~ 
THE f10RRIS INN 
NO PARKING AVAILABLE 

Of NOTRE DHU 
BAI JU'S WE 
H I N 
c DELIVER 
s 
E 


E 271-0125 
c 
u 
($8°0 Minimum)

I 
s 
I 

,_.

Saint Mary's to face tough weekend road matches 
By LAUREN WINTERFIELD Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team is gearing up for a full week­end, with games on both Saturday and Sunday. 
Saturday the Belles team up against John Carroll University at 9:00 a.m. and on Sunday they face the College of Wooster at 9:00 a.m. Both games are away. 
The Belles current record is (3-3), and practices have been light because of the busy game schedule. 
"Everyone has been working quite hard," said coach Larry Patterson. 
And apparently it pays ofT be­cause everyone's been playing in every game. 
John Carroll should provide an exciting game, as Saint Mary's avenges a 1-0 loss from last year. This game has an additional surprise for the Belles, since they just yesterday found out that the game would be played on artificial turf. Adjustments will have to be made to extra bounce in the ball and playing with different shoes. 
The Belles beat the College of Wooster last year in overtime, and this year's game should be just as close. Patterson noted that Wooster is a leader in their conference, and Tina Brockman noted that they are "very physical." 
The team comes together as the season moves on and the players get to know each other," said Eileen Newell. 
So the Belles should be ready for the weekend ahead. 
• WOMEH!S SOCCER 
Tarheels set mark for winning streak 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. 

The North Carolina women's soccer team won their 89th straight game Wednesday night, a 5-1 victory over North Carolina State. 
The Tar Heels have compiled a record of 189-1-7 and eight national titles in the past eight years. Their most recent defeat was in 1990, a 3-2 overtime 
N E 

NOW HIRING DEUVERY k CASHIER 
Aut nese ne 
•Eggroll, Cream Cheese Wanton 
loss to Connecticut, a team they later crushed 6-0 that year in the national championship game. 
The Tar Heel winning streak won't be recognized by the NCAA, which does not keep sta­tistics on soccer. 
North Carolina coach Anson Dorrance says his teams have dominated a sport still if) its in­fancy. Wooden guided a pro­gram in one of the country's most competitive sports, Dorrance said. 
The Tar Heel players also are taking their streak in stride. 
"I still think half our team doesn't know it happened," midfielder Angela Kelly told The Herald-Sun of Durham. "We just try to play our hardest in every game, and the records we set along the way are icing on the cake." 

south Bend/s oakwood villas 
• 
single-family homes -villa concept 

• 
association landscaping & snow removal 

• 
6 models; 1200 to 1900 square feet, or more 

• 
minutes from Notre Dame & StMary's 

• 
minutes from Blackthorn Golf Course 

• 
quick access to the Toll Road and shopping 

• 
Miller Builders -quality homes 



•Chicken, Beef, Shrimp, & Vegetable !•Sweet & Sour Chicken: 
OAKWCX)D 
VILLAS 

r#fGameday ...........,.,.... 
:•Egg Roll : 
Fried Rice 

•Sweet 
& Sour Chicken 

•Chicken, 
Beef, Shrimp, & Vegetable Sauteed Noodles 


:•setamed Rice 
I

'•Fortune Cookie




s489 
with this coupon 
L----------------------­
Oakwood Villas 2903 Corpus Christi Dr South Bend, IN 46628 
(219) 277-0337 
r#2came<Ja}ispeiiail
I I 
:•Egg Roll : 
I I 
:•Chicken Fried Rice: 
I I 
'•Fortune Cookie ! 
I I I I I I



$469
I 

~~~---~----~ 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 23, 1994 
•WOMEN'S INTERHAll 

Pangborn, Walsh, Lyons open with IH wins 
By K.C. GOYER Sporn Writer 
Pangborn 12, Badin 7 
Pangborn used a little bit of everything to upset Badin last night, 12-7. Short passes, breakaway runs, and the option made up a diverse but effective offense for the spirited Pangborn team. 
Trish Sorenson scored the first of her two touchdowns for Pangborn on the third play of the game. Her second touch­down came late in the second half when she caught a short pass, then sprinted 35 yards to the endzone. 
Badin's offense looked promis­ing but just didn't get off the ground. Key plays were often botched as a cluteh run at fourth and inches was recalled because of a penalty, and re­peated attempts to run up the middle were stopped for no gain or loss. 
Excellent protection of the quarterback by Badin's offen­sive line resulted in several im­pressive long pass attempts which unfortunately were bob­bled and dropped. The team's only touchdown came in the second half when Jill Satanek returned a punt 50 yds for the score. 

While Badin coaches cite men­tal mistakes and costly turnovers as costing them the game, Pangborn coaches Greg Borkowski and Kevin Shields gave the tireless Pangborn women on defense substantial credit for the win. 
With continued team unity and good defense,· Borkowski and Shields feel their team's win over a formidable Badin team was "a good start for a great season." 
Walsh 18, Cavanaugh 0 
Walsh held nothing back as they ripped through Cavanaugh, 18-0. 
Long runs and long passes spelled trouble for the Cavanaugh defense. Luz Maria Rodriguez caught a twenty­yard pass for the first of her two touchdowns, then ran twelve yards into the endzone later in the first half. 
Toward the end of the second half, Walsh marched down the field in a series of running plays, using the option to get within a reasonable distance for Ann Jackoboice to run for the team's final touchdown of the game. 
.' 
_, 


POST PEP RALLY 







IB30)NJFJIJRJE 
White Field Food, Music, Bagpipes, Fun 
RAFFLE TICKETS FOR STANFORD (2 GA'S) 
to be sold $1 each or 6 for $5 
in case of rain, go to Stepan Sponsored by Sophomore Council 
Cavanaugh found talent in Shannon Crombie who had two runs of twenty yards and a nice catch in traffic. The team hopes to become better orga­nized and improve its passing before their next game. 
With a fortress of an offensive line and relentless defense, Walsh forced the still forming Cavanaugh team to find innova­tive methods of staying in the game. In addition to frequent running by quarterback Erin Williams, one of Cavanaugh's biggest plays was a perfectly executed center sneak by Bridget Biggs. 
Though spirited and creative, Cavanaugh couldn't keep up with the strong teamwork play of the Walsh women. Walsh captains credited the rookies of their team for coming through when needed, and key plays by defense as a big part of the team's victory. 
Lyons 19, Breen-Phillips 12 
Lyon's talented defense and one-two punch combo on of­fense spelled a tough loss for Breen Phillips last night. 
With clutch interceptions by Maureen Hill and Angie Fister in the backfield and key grabs against BP's running game, the defense only gave up one touchdown to the fiesty BP blitz. 
The first score of the game came when Jenny Layden snatched a toss by the scram­bling quarterback and dodged two defenders on her way into the endzone. 
Her feat was soon answered when BP ran back the kickoff 35 yards for a touchdown. Neither team was successful in their respective attempts for extra points. 
Not to be outdone, Lyons tossed an option to Layden for 25 yards, then a textbook long pass to Kristen Mikolyzk for a touchdown. The extra point was unsuccessful. 
In the second half, Breen Philips rallied to convert a fourth and one to six points when Wendy Morris ran up the right sideline for 21 yards. The extra point attempt was unsuc­cessful. 
Amid the cheering of rowdy fans, Layden scored the win­ning touchdown on a ten-yard option run. A short run by the QB and a short pass to Layden brought the score to 19-12. 
page 23 

Friday, September 23, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
• 



' 
r 

HALFTIME FIREWORKS SHOW! 
ored bY= 
Sp=~~hn's pizza
PaP one-M&MS tor eve~d Notre 
• Free M Mars a urtesY M& d services 
co Foo r­
oame {with pu
Fee sub ou­
• enropief : \arge drink)d~ntschase o . t 1 ooo stu 
to t1rs ' ys
pons iveawa 
r House g 
_l

• socce d roore ...
• an 
L 



NOTRE DAME vs. INDIANA 

Wo1nen!ls Soccer 
TONIGHT AT 7:30 -AFTER THE PEP RALLY! ALUMNI FIELD-BEHIND THE JACC 
~

ND I SMC Students free with student ID 
~----------~--~ 
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 23, 1994 
•CollEGE foonuu..



-. 'Canes offer exposure for Husky star 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Washington Huskies tailback Napoleon Kaufman has a chance to dash into the lead Saturday in the Heisman Trophy race. All he has to do is outrun the Miami Hurricanes. 
No. 17 Washington (1-1) will need substantial help from him to beat No. 6 Miami (2-0), and Kaufman may need a strong showing to stay in Heisman contention. 
"For him it's a very high-pro­file game," Washington coach Jim Lambright said. "When you play against a quality team with great athletes, the best rise to the top. Nobody has to guess, 'How good is he or how good are they?' It removes all the questions." 
Or, as Hurricanes defensive tackle Warren Sapp said, "I'm not here to rate 'em. I'm here to tackle 'em." 

Through the first two games of the season, Kaufman and the Hurricanes rate with the best. 
Washington's 5-foot-9 Napoleon ran for 152 yards in a season-opening loss to Southern Cal, then gained a ca­reer-best 211 yards in a victory over Ohio State. He leads the nation with an average of 261 all-purpose yards per game and is third in rushing at 181.5 per game. 
"Those are not bad numbers," Hurricanes safety C.J. Richardson said. "He's the best running back in the nation, and the best I've seen in college. And I've been in college for five years." 
Kaufman, a senior who needs 78 yards to replace Joe Steele as Washington's career rushing leader, will face perhaps his biggest challenge as a collegian. 
Heisman voters may recall that last year Kaufman had his worst games against Washington's toughest oppo­nents. 
Miami ranks first in the nation in scoring defense and second in yards allowed. The Hurricanes have beaten Georgia Southern and Arizona State by a combined 103-10. 
''I'm not taking it any different from any other game," Kaufman said. "They're a good team, and I've played good teams before." 
Miami, seeking to extend its record of 58 consecutive victo­ries in the Orange Bowl, surely will be geared to stopping Kaufman. No. 8 has touched the ball 69 times in two games. 
"Obviously we have to slow him down," coach Dennis Erickson said. "We're not going to stop him. But if we can take 
WELCOME BACK 'fO CAMPUS 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 

Where Great Names in GolfCome Together 
Distinctive Gifts for All Occasions Gloves, Shirts, Sweaters, Hats, Balls, Towels, Umbrellas 
Located "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 
Football Weekend Hours Fridays 6:30AM-5:30PM Saturdays 6:00AM-One hour before game Sundays 6:00AM -4:00PM Notre Dame Golf Shop-Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-6425 

domingo, 25 de Septiembre de 1994 
11:30 a.m. Keenan-Stanford Hall Chapel 
Celebrante Padre Don McNeill, c.s.c. 
Con Coridad y Carlos Kenney 

0MPUS MINISTRY 

Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 

i 
I 
I t
L 
away some of his options, we'll succeed on defense." 
Considering the Hurricanes' dominance in the past decade, Heisman hopefuls have enjoyed a surprising degree of success against them. 
Boston College's Doug Flutie clinched the 1984 Heisman with his "Hail Flutie" pass to beat the Hurricanes at the Orange Bowl. Notre Dame's Tim Brown had a sub-par per­formance at Miami in 1987, but still won the Heisman. 
Ty Detmer opened his 1990 Heisman season by leading Brigham Young to an upset of Miami. San Diego State fresh­man Marshall Faulk rushed for 154 yards at Miami in the final game of the 1991 season, set­ting the stage for his second­place showing in the Heisman voting the following year. And last season, Charlie Ward led Florida State past Miami on his way to the Heisman. 
A game against Miami means a big audience -perhaps the largest of the season for Kaufman. Washington is on probation and ineligible for a bowl, so the regionally televised game will be his only appear­ance outside the Pacific Time Zone. 
"It definitely doesn't help his chances to be up here in cow­boy and Indian country," Lambright said. "His first two games definitely make him one that deserves consideration. Now he'll get the exposure be­cause of the type of schedule we're playing." 
If Kaufman fares well at Miami and next week against UCLA, he might become the Heisman front-runner. Then he could rack up big statistics against lesser opponents in the final seven games. A poor showing against Miami could eliminate Kaufman from con­tention. 
"You have a lot of pressure," he said. "I just try to concen­trate on winning games. I'd rather win all our games than go 7-4 and win the Heisman Trophy." 

THEY CHANGED THE WAY CAMPAIGN~ ARE WON · 

...CLIFFIIANGING SUSPENSE:! 
-Janet Maslin, THE NEW YORK TIMES 

"EXIIIIARATING! 
James Carville is the largest, most resonant character in recent Alilerican movies:' 
-Terrenre ttanerty, THE NEW YORKER 
'i\VERY ENTERfAINING MOVIE:' 
-David Denby, NEW YORK MAGAZINE 


'1\MOVING SNAPSHOT 
of the enertJ and frenzy that went into the. unorthodox 
Clinton campaign. James Carville remains amagnetic star:' 
-Jaek Mathews, NEW YORK NEWSDAY 
MIIAIIU\IKllltlllllk"mt'IW nLlllllllllllll 1t111S m:IJIU~ MIOOIIAIII liE IllliM 1W!HIAIII.If.III11Jhti:UII:I!IIPI!'illtHIS Qlllli!Kliiiii'IIIMIJ.WI•'tti.IIIIM111Jli!wt111Sim!S m.o.qlllltii!Jill'.lllllll llllllRIDIEIIll.llm lll1lllrwml"IONF1lllllll11!lllllllllllll'lllm11mwi'WDPOOIJ.WI OCTOBER
IDL':lr.."d IW~IU!1JlUIWl'lll1!111mNI14llll'l!mlllliKIDitliiSIJmtl!iWMPI.\mAIII -RI.MS­
·--=--...-­CINEMA AT THE SNITE Friday & Saturday 7:30 and 9:30 pm 
-~-~ ----------~--, 

Friday, September 23, 1994 The Observer· SPORTS page 25 
•COllEGE fOOTBAll 


Wheatley still running for Heisman 
-

By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR He's about three weeks be­hind the rest of the pack, yet 
Tyrone Wheatley still might make a run at the Reisman Trophy. 
SUB PRESENTS: 
... A place where you can hang out, meet cool people, and groove to 
some 

jltJ

slammin' live music. 

Wheatley, sidelined with a separated right shoulder since an Aug. 23 scrimmage near the end of training camp, will get his first action Saturday when No. 4 Michigan (2-0) plays host to No. 7 Colorado (2-0). 
"The right shoulder doesn't feel like it used to and not as 
FRONT. I COLOR BACK $15.00 
CALL TOU. FREE 
1-800-823-7496 
M/C AND VISA ACCEPTED 
SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TQ, 
TEAM 151 VENTURES. INC. 
10304 NW 7 COURT PLANTATION, FL 33324 PLEASE SPECIFY ITEM NO.. OUANllTY AND SIZE (L XL XXL) 
FREE SHIPPING 
A. RESIDENTS ADD 6% SALES 1lt.X 
SORRY. NO P.O. BOXES 
VICE-PRESIDENT -ND ClASS OF "84 

good as the left one," Wheatley said. "But, it feels a lot better than it did. I'm doing fine." 
Michigan coach Gary Moeller said Wheatley won't start. The Wolverines will begin with Tshimanga Biakabatuka, who has rushed for 228 yards and two touchdowns in Wheatley's absence. 
"The main thing Tyrone has to avoid is another hit just like the one he was injured on," Moeller said. "That was a pret­ty strange hit." 
Before he would allow Wheatley to play against the Buffaloes, Moeller made him take a few hits in practice this week. 
"He got banged around some," Moeller said. "I believe his arm is fine, and it's just a matter of getting comfortable. He has blocked and run, but has not been tackled. We don't tackle our backs -not the good ones -once the s season starts." 
Wheatley, who passed up the 

Photo courtesy of University of Michigan Tyrone Wheatley, who passed up the NFL draft to finish his college education, has been sidelined with a dislocated shoulder. 
NFL draft to finish his college big claim in the early going. education, had been a front-"I don't know about that," runner for the Reisman before Wheatley said. ''I'm just wor­the season began. He still might ried about playing these last 10 have a chance, since nobody games, including a bowl has stepped up and staked a game." 
Alabama faces accusations 
Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. 

Alabama, which has never been on NCAA probation, was accused of possible violations involving former players Gene Jelks and Antonio Langham. 
The NCAA, in an official letter of inquiry delivered, raised questions about a bank loan obtained by Jelks and whether Alabama officials responded promptly to information about an agent contacting Langham. 
The NCAA letter, which came nearly two years after Jelks made highly publicized allega­tions against the school, marks the beginning of the official in­vestigation. The university has to respond in writing by Nov. 22 and also must appear at a meeting of the NCAA Committee on Infractions. 
"A program like ours, with its history of national champi­onships and its record of NCAA compliance, naturally draws at­tention," Alabama president Roger Sayers said in a state­ment. "We will move with dis­patch to conclude this matter." 
The allegation involving Jelks was no surprise, although he has changed his story several times since December 1992 . 
CANDAXMcNAIR PRoGRAM 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING WITH 
DR. MARio BoRELLI  DR. ROLAND SMITH  
DIRECTOR, CANDAX  EXECUTIVE AsSISTANT  
TO THE PRESIDENT  

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994 
7:00 P.M. ROOM 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL 
FOR STUDENTS FROM UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS 
ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS ARE INVITED REFRESHMENTS AFTER THE MEETING AT 8 P.M. 
Jelks claimed that former Alabama assistant coaches Rockey Felker and Jerry Pullen and Gadsden businessmen Harold Simmons and Alan Cohn gave him money and other extra benefits during his recruitment and while he played at Alabama from 1985­89. 
Langham, an All-American who was nation's top defensive back in 1993, was declared in­eligible for Alabama's final three games last season after the NCAA ruled he took $400 from a sports agent with whom he signed in a bar. 
Langham claimed he did not realize he was making a deal with Darryl Dennis of Washington, D.C., when he signed a representation con­tract in a New Orleans bar just hours after Alabama won the national championship with a victory over Miami in the 1993 Sugar Bowl. 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
Even when facing the num­ber one team, the Irish still be­lieve in their ability to win. 
"We're as ready to play them as ever," coach Mike Berticelli said. 
"Our players certainly have great respect for Indiana, but that doesn't translate into intimidation." 
"We can beat anyone in the country," Joseph adds. 
The Irish will then come home to face LaSalle at Alumni Field on Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 


r----------­
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 23, 1994



! . ~ --­
[ 

Freshmen help propel Irish 
kinko•s® the copy center 2202-C South Bend Ave. Greenwood Plaza 271-0398 109 E. Jefferson Jefferson Centre 234·8709  Tough to beat. At Kinko's, our staff of professionals, service and state-of-the-art equipment are TOUGH TO BEAT. At Notre Dame, come see how TOUGH TO BEAT the undefeated women's soccer team is when it plays host to Indiana at 7:30 Friday.  7:30 FRIDAY NIGHT! I NOTRE DAME vs. INDIANA HALFTIME FIREWORKS SHOW! ND I SMC STUDENTS FREE WITH ID!  

ByRIAN AKEY 
Associate Sports Ediror 
When the 1994 season began for the Notre Dame women's soccer team, head coach Chris Petrucelli was convinced that the freshmen on his squad would face less pressure than his previous two recruiting classes did. 
While first-year players in the last two seasons were asked to take the Irish women's soccer program to a higher level of competition, this year's fresh­men had to make the less pressing adjustment of fitting into a squad which has already been recognized as one of the premier teams in the nation. 
And though Petrucelli is satis­fied with the play of his upper­classmen, the role freshmen have played for the no. 3 Irish has been perhaps greater than he had anticipated. 
"It's very simple," said Petrucelli. "We wouldn't be 6-0 without the freshmen." 
The most prolific member of the class of 1998 on the Irish stat sheets is midfielder Holly Manthei, who has scored a point in every game, including goals in Notre Dame's first two games. 
While Manthei's scoring may be the most visible contribution by an Irish freshman, class­mates Kate Sobrero and Julie Maund have joined her in the starting lineup. Each has earned Petrucelli's praise for her performance. 
Kamm's Island Inn 
Relax on Private Balconies Overlooking The St. Joe River 
KITCHENETTES IN ALL ROOMS LOCATED IN THE HISTORIC 100 CENTER, FEATURING RESTAURANTS, THEATRES, ANTIQUES, UNIQUE SHOPPING 
100 Center 

e 
Mishawaka, IN 
256.. 1501 

"We gave each of them indi­vidual roles that we wanted them to play," said Petrucelli. 
"Kate Sobrero has marked the other team's best player in ev­ery game. That's not a job that is usually assigned to a fresh­man. And Julie has been very solid in the midfield, and does a great job connecting there." 
For the players, any early anxieties about joining the Irish were calmed soon after begin­ning workouts. 
"It's been so easy to adjust be­cause everyone has been so good about helping me," said Manthei. "Everyone on the team is committed to winning." 
"Our captain Jill [Matesic], is always the first one to cheer for someone else or help them out. She's the best captain I've ever had." 
For Maund, the adjustment took a bit longer. 
"It was difficult to adjust at first," said Maund. "We have an intense practice schedule and a lot of traveling, but that has kept me focused. The team has brought my level of play up to where it's at." 
And Sobrero's primary transi­tion has been to learn the intri­cacies of a new position. 
"I never played marking back in high school," said Sobrero. "It's been different. I've played well, but there's definitely a lot of room for improvement." 
The quick transition made by the three freshmen starters has allowed the Irish to succeed despite some tough breaks by other members of the squad. Sobrero has stepped in to re­place All-American Ragen Coyne who is out indefinitely with a stress fracture in her right leg, and Manthei's scoring has helped overcome a dry spell for All-American Cindy Daws. 
In six games this season Daws has scored just one goal, which Petrucelli attributes to merely a streak of bad luck. 
"Cindy is still striking the ball well," said Petrucelli. "But she's hit every post possible and has been robbed by some great saves. She's just been unlucky." 
"That shows that we're not a one-man team. We have 24 goals this season, Cindy has one, and we're 6-0. Imagine what's going to happen when Cindy starts scoring. And she will." 
The Irish hope the veteran scoring and the rookie enthusi­asm merge this weekend, when they host Indiana on Friday night and Cincinnati on Sunday. 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek Freshman Holly Manthei has scored a point in each of Notre Dame's six games this season. 
Be mesmerized by one ofthe world's greatest hypnotists Sponsored by the Student Activities Office Thurs. Sept. 29. and Fri. Sept. 30 at 8:00 pm 101 DeBartolo Hall Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office for $3  


Friday, September 23, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 27 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE.._ ______, .-------..:::D;.:.;A:...:.YE..:::...:.KE=L.::::LE:::..;TT~ 
'RuCII•f!.S 1\~E Vlcoov~Tt\oN(,S. 
'So I.('\ ~E-RE To S~:-'t if'l fAc.T, IY\AN'1 WM ~E 

~E"::.TE. ~l>A'1"., [AII.TOOI'J 
THE I<,E.C.•Ft~Sr~AlbHT' i'h&fiT A.L-j•~,..c, LA3s 

(Y\Ef"'I"IOI"E.l> Ov11. II"Al11l•"~"'1 
1Hr CART"••tHs..-GETS r·~,., H~:-~-.E~" 

\of'&~ OF "'{)AT~. Tor<S l"iAPP••r<~Et> l:>uE To A \f'I\CYIE!>IATEL'1 1 {Z.vmoii.S 
0ET ADA'r"-· {\LNIOST 
OF 'Em. f'/\oii.E 'THAN Fu~Ll)ATE-""e••l<. THE (\\A" ~Ajl."TE.t> tL'11NC. 
~ov (AN \mA bl NE. · .. • [$ (\ ~'l"u"t>. "PE ~ IO"t> · 

lflA..-THE 
C.AI2-T00/'11Sr 
(oul.l>l" i-GE-r 
ADATE·"' 

'N\4r._T OlD ~OIJ \"IS BIOLOG-ICAL! 1>\i>.~B£. liS OPPOS\It. 
GE.P II= ~0\.1 GIRl'S MI\T\JR£. DA'I .' ~(1.'\B£ r._u. i\ltst: MISSE.O ANt 
FASllR 11-tM-1 9::>W Xs M£At-l tJ,'( ANSWEI$ 'IOIJ OW£ ME 'IOJ J\l'SI GOT A "-Rt. CORRECT.' MP..iBt. 
25 C£1'-\\S. BEITt.R GRf>IOE '{O\JR "A" 15 RtAU.i i>.N BECA\lS£. 1M~t. A "F".' THP--1 1-\\l'SI BE GIRL! ITS l'\0\ rMR~ I W\1'.( \\-1£. BU! 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
1 DON'T KNOW I-lOW YOU IT'S HARD I BUT YOU'RE 
1-\E.Y! I CAN 1-\0LD DO IT. YOU WORK ALL GAINING KNOWLEDGE 
ELE. VEN "CHEERIOS'' 

DAY AND NOW YOU THAT COULDN'T BE. 
IN MY NOSE t TAKE CLASSES AT NIGHT OBTAINED ANY OTHER 
WAY 

CROSSWORD 
1 Irrational art 31 Prefix with 64 Crosses 
s One of the valence &Sin heraldry, 
Huxtables 32 Jabir ai-Sabah, 
having small 10Summer projections ine.g.

getaway the upper
33 Take forcibly

14 Not on the level corners 15 Radio-related && Distribute
38 Local life 

1& --·Aitaic 40 Storm heading &7 Glamour rival 
(language 41 Pang &8 Assemblies group) 
&9 Kind ofmoney 17 Start of a quote by Will Durant 43 Pedal pushers? 
42 Mount 

20 Isaac or Howard 45 Greek peak DOWN 
21 Put into 46Quote 1Judo levels difficulties continued 
2Much 22 Old spy grp. 49 Shaver 
3Fawn 24 "On Golden 53 Pricing word 4 Choice of Paris
Pond" 54 Touch a chord s Preserveplaywright 
Thompson 57 Racket &Blockhead 7 The blue of baby blues 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE a Opposite of gormandize 9Small posy 
song 2s Yaks 26 Drop 27 Reed 


5 
! 
AND IT'S 
KNOWLEDGE 
YOU CAN 
APPLY. 


28 John Ciardi's "-Man" 29 Curtain fabric 30 Esurience 
34 Places for displaying wares 
35 Constellation name 3& Optimistic 37They're sometimes split 39 Arithmetic 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
figure 


9~  9~  
fS;J  ~  
a  $1  $1  ~  
~  with special guests  ffl  


~&V 'Ihe 1{_oa4fipples ~ 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
-


Pllunun~erQrt vi()lit:JI aild 
SI1JDINTUNION lOAD 
-
will be held tonight .,hh•...t••~ Hall. Those time on the 

sic prasents Carolyn ....... ,..... Cerny ()n piano in a ~J 2:()() p,m. in the Snite''Museum. The Max Reger, Claude The concert is free 
" 
.... 






SPORTS 
page 28 Friday, September 23, 1994 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

Midfielders hope to hold the line 
Koloskov, Irish bring confidence into match with no. 1 Hoosiers 

-
,. 
" 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Sports Writer 
If there are ghosts on the loose, you know who to call ... Ghost Busters. If there are pests Jiving in the house, call the Orkin man. If the lawn's a mess and a gardener is need, follow the com­mon rule, call Rudy. 
Yet, if you have to face the No. 1 men's soccer team in the nation, get your midfield on the line. 
That's exactly what the ( 4-2) Notre Dame men's soccer team will do when they face Indiana tonight in Bloomington. 
Indiana pummeled the previously No.1 team St. Louis 4-0 last week, and is coming off a 3-1 win over No. 6 Clemson last Wednesday on national television. 
It is against teams like Indiana that the Irish changed their formation to the midfield-dominated 3-5-2. With the amount of starting talent and depth, they felt they could compete with any­one for control of the midfield and the game. Tonight the midfield will be test­ed when it battles the strongest team in the nation. 
The main reason for the dominance of the Hoosiers has been the play of their two star midfielders, seniors Todd Yeagley and Brian Maisonneuve. Maisonneuve leads the team with 15 points and Yeagley follows with 14. 
"We have to shut down their mid­field," senior Jason Fox explained. 
"They have two of the best 'We can beat team. a..nd bring the bau midfielders in the country up safe. in Yeagley and anyone.' With four of the six being 
Maisonneuve." _Jean Joseph seniors, they understand 
"They have a great mid­field," co-captain Jean Joseph added. "At anytime they could have a flash of brilliance that could beat you." 
It is going to be the responsibility of the Irish midfield of Fox, Joseph, Tont Richardson, Keith Carlson, Chris Mathis and Konstantin Koloskov to shut down both Yeagley and Maisonneauve. These six will rotate into the five midfield po­sitions, and will need to have flawless games if the Irish hope to win. 
"This game is going to be won or lost at midfield," Joseph said. "That's where their strength lies. We're equal to them every where else." 
Yet, to win, the Irish cannot focus only on the Hoosier midfield and Jose sight of 
the duel importance of this game. Not only are they playing the No. 1 team in the nation, but also a territor­ial rival that they have not beaten since 1987. 
"This is a huge game," Fox said. "Seniors are 0-3 against them. We want to get them at least once." 
'This is the biggest game of the year," Richardson adds. "We haven't beaten them and they're number one." 
Yet, not only is this a big game for the seniors, it's a big game for the program. 
"They're number one in the region and the country," Joseph explains. "(A win) means a lot to the program." 
see SOCCER I page 25 


their game plan. 
"We have to do what we do," Joseph said. "We have to concentrate on get­ting the ball up to the forwards, so they can put it in the back of the net." 
"We have to control the ball out of the back," Richardson added. "We have to play good defense, collectively as a 


The Observer/Jake Peters The Irish will be on the defensive against a Loyola Marymount squad which is a national leader in kills. 

of note...
Women's soccer 

See Sports Extra for all the 
A trio offreshmen may help the Irish stay 
Notre Dame vs. Purdue
undefeated against Indiana tonight. 
football details. 

See page 26 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 





