r--------~­
Monday, February 7, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 84 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Women's Week to open with actress' solo show 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH challenge of doing (a) solo per­News Writer formance. I knew colleges and organizations did this sort of 
Boston-based actress Robin thing if it was educational and Lane brings six of America's interesting." first ladies to the stage tonight at 8 p.m. in Dalloway's Cof­The contrast in the roles, feehouse with her production of ranging from the nearly ob­"Ladies First" as part of a cele­scure Julia Tyler to the ever­bration of Women's Week. popular Jackie Kennedy comes 


both from Lane's desire to uti­lize her artistic talents and to compare the differences in the wives of America's presidents. 
"It occurred to me (that) it would be interesting to see how different First Ladies per­formed in the same role," she 
said. 
As part of a series of events scheduled throughout the Many of the six pieces are week, Lane offers an intimate taken from actual accounts of visit with such notable women the women during and shortly as Rachel Jackson, Eleanor after the time they spent in the Roosevelt, Julia Tyler, Mary White House. Todd Lincoln, Abigail Adams Lane's interpretation of and Jackie Kennedy. Jackie Kennedy is based on an 
"I chose these women mostly interview following the for (the) theatrical as well as assassination of her husband historical contrasts," Lane said. John F. Kennedy. "I have worked as an actress in Other Women's Week ac­Boston for quite a few years tivities include: and had been interested in the 
see WEEK I page 4 

The Obser.ter/Jake Peters 
'Shower the People' 
Morrissey rector Joe Ross, C.S.C. brings the house down with his cover of James Taylor's hit song during Morrissey Unplugged on Saturday night. Father Ross and fellow Manorites played before a full house. 
New course, 



Catholic women's education enables success 
By LYNN BAUWENS Gorno shared her father's sex institutions are twice as States Air Force flight training 
film begin 

Assistant Saint Mary's Editor "Henry Ford philosophy" for likely to enter medical school school. She went to "Top Gun selecting colleges -"You can and pursue doctorate degrees School" in Alabama to fulfill 
on disorders 
The Catholic women's college go to any college that you want, as their counterparts at coedu­her dream of experiencing air experience encourages women just so it is a Catholic women's cational institutions and that combat in a fighter aircraft. to succeed in all areas of life, college." the percentage of women After surviving winter in By MYRNA MALONEY according to Mary Lou Gorno, At that time, the social revo­majoring in math, chemistry South Bend, SYR's and senior News Writer Saint Mary's Class of 1972 and lution declared single-sex edu­and biology at women's col­comprehensives at Saint keynote speaker for the Play of cation to be outdated. Enroll­leges is three times the national Mary's, she felt confident flying "Food Fright," a film on the Mind conference held this ment was down and many average. at 230 mph in a F-16 fighter women and eating disorders, past weekend. women's colleges were closing "Women achievers are more aircraft even though she was will preview tonight from 6:30 Introducing herself as college their doors or merging with likely to come from women's the only woman in the class. p.m. to 7:30p.m. in the Haggar trustee, advertising executive, brother schools. colleges, it is that simple," "I have a diploma to proveCollege Center Game Room. world traveler and pilot-in­"Although our survival has Gorno said. "They are charged that this was not a dream. I am The film will also be shown training, Gorno said, "The real­not been easy, today women's to succeed in multiple roles a graduate of Top Gun School in the future throughout Saint ity behind this resume is simply colleges are thriving in the they will select during their life-and Saint Mary's College," she 
. ..
Mary's departments and resi­this -I am a product of a marketplace," Gorno said. tune. said. dence hall section meetings, Catholic women's college. This "Familiar to all of us, but unfor­As the Vice President of Leo according to Nancy Mascotte, is what it looks like." tunately not to the world, is the Gorno has selected many Burnett Company, Inc. in assistant director of the Coun­She discussed how her expe­extensive research conducted roles in her own lifetime. After Chicago, she works with the seling and Career Development riences at Saint Mary's taught over the last decade that docu­graduating from Saint Mary's world's largest clients including Center. her to pursue a path committed ments the strong link between with a bachelor's degree in McDonald's, Nintendo, Sony
Written and staged by to a rich, intellectual life. women's colleges and success business administration and and Reebok. She recently spent women who have fought per­"(It was) an education that rates of their graduates." economics, she earned her time in Los Angeles working on sonal battles with anorexia and would offer me and other masters in journalism from an upcoming commercial for bulimia, the film is factual, women the opportunity to be­Gorno spoke of a recent front Northwestern University and Reebok featuring U.S. figureanecdotal and sociological, come leaders in society, in the page article in The New York continued at the University of skater Nancy Kerrigan. according to a posted review. workplace, in the community Times that announced the Chicago to earn her M.B.A. in While pleased with the resur­
"The film is being shown in and in the Church," she said. resurgence of women's col­finance and accounting. gence of interest in colleges conjunction with a new course When discussing her reasons leges. She cited statistics which Gorno also spoke fondly of such as Saint Mary's, Gorno being offered this semester for attending Saint Mary's, show that women from single-her graduation from the United about women and eating disor­see SPEAKER I page 4 ders," said Dr. Joyce Block, a lecturer in the psychology de­
Quilts provide access to public realm 
partment. "The course focuses on four 

By ELIZABETH REGAN The quilters used special de­sponsored quilting bees, ac­
main aspects of eating prob­

Saint Mary's News Editor signs such as the "underground cording to Hedges.
lems. First. we looked at the railroad" and the mere inscrip­"Taken by the anti-slaveryconflict in a psychological con­

The strong female networks tion of names and slogans in movement, women extended
text in terms of a woman's in­

created through quilting be­the squares themselves to rein­their religious commitment into 
dividual personality and family. 

came major vehicles for women force their messages, Hedges a new area," she said. 
"Second, we are studying 

of the 19th century to move into said.
fasting in a historical manner. 

the public and political realm, "Initially, sewing was the The women held craft fairs to
We will also spend time observ­

according to author and quilter woman's way to raise money raise money for the cause. They
ing the sociological side of eat­

Elaine Hedges. for good causes," Hedges said. sold their most elegant and
ing problems which include the 

"However, the massively orga­expensive work at these fairs inmedia and other large-scale 
Not only did quilts symbolize nized movements requiring ex­order to collect money from 
pressures. 

personal rites of passage for tensive and essential relief those upper class citizens that
"Finally, we will move away 

women of the 19th century, but work helped them develop might not otherwise give dona­
from this surface of the media 

they also proved to be effective skills that they used in further tions, according to Hedges.
and will study the more compli­

tools in the anti-slavery move­movements." "These women gave over $25
cated struggles that a woman 

ment, Civil War relief, temper­The women first congregated million for war relief," Hedges
faces just by being a woman in ance and suffrage movements, at sewing societies at their she said. churches as well as privately

see DISORDERS I page 4 see QUILTS I page 6 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, February 7, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Horrors against civilians continue to escalate in the former Yugoslavia 
Shelling In Sarajevo ;rwAm~~N::!MM ···~~~f$. ·.=:::::~·:~~::~:~,/fffft}ft£·· .,,.,<·= 
The Wor.st Attacks on Civn,~r~ in Sarajevo 
It is estimat~d that about 200,000 people"h~~e been killed in the war in Bosnia~Herzegovina. · ··~~~~rF' Previous attacks on civilians during 22 months of war in Sarajevo, 
almost exclusively attributed to the Bosnian Serbs who surround fuec~: • 
May 27, 199~ ....; A mortar attack on a bread line kills more than 16. Aug. 31 -Shelling of a marketplace kills at least 15, ·· ·~· June 1, 1993-At least 15 are killed and about 80 wot.mded in a mortar attack on an impromptu soccer match in the suburb of Dobrinja. July 12 -Twelve are killed by a mortar round while lining up at a communal tap in Dobrinja. · Nov. 9 -At least seven die and 22 are wounded in the shelling of a school. At least three children and their teacher are among the dead. Jan. 3, 1994-Shelling kills at least 15, including six members of a single family. Jan. 22 -Shelling kills six children in the Alipasino Polje neighborhood. Feb. 4 -At least eight are killed by mortar rounds in Dobrinja. 
AP 
Beauty salon bandits meet their match 
NEW YORK 
An off-duty police officer, caught in a gun battle with three robbers in a hair salon, got lucky when one of the robbers put a gun to her head and it misfired -twice. Police said Officer Arlene Beckles, an instructor at the Police Academy, was getting her hair done Saturday afternoon when three men entered the Salon La Mode in downtown Brooklyn, forced the patrons against a wall and emptied the cash register. Beckles drew her .38-cal­iber revolver and exchanged shots with the men, hitting all three, said Officer Andrew Mcinnis, a police spokesman. She disarmed one man, but another "knocks her down, puts a gun to her head and fires," Mcinnis said. The gun misfired twice. Two of the men fled. Beckles arrested the third man, Fernando Douglas, with help from transit police Sgt. William O'Brien, who was on dinner break from the nearby Transit Authority head­quarters and had spotted the commotion. Douglas, 25, who had been shot in the face, was taken to St. Vincent's Hospital in critical condition. 
Rapper to perform at music awards show 
LOS ANGELES 
So what if Snoop Doggy Dogg is facing a murder charge? That won't stop producer Dick Clark from in­cluding the rapper among the performers at Monday's American Music Awards. "That's another part of his life. He is an innocent man until proven otherwise and that's another thing the courts will deal with, not the music public," Clark said. Clark said the popularity of Snoop's album "Doggystyle" was enough to justify his perfor­mance at the 21st annual awards show, which is essen­tially a popularity poll. Nominations are based on record sales and airplay, and winners are voted by a national sampling of 20,000 record buyers. "You don't sell three and a half million albums in three weeks and not carry with you some degree of importance to a certain part of the audience, a big part of the audience," Clark said. Snoop, whose real name is Calvin Broadus, pleaded inno­cent to the murder charge and is free on $1 million bail. Authorities say Snoop was driving a Jeep from which his bodyguard fatally shot a man last August. 



Alternative 
. ' 
mustcs identity crisis 
A funny thing happened!---
.... to alternative music on the way to Casey's Top Forty; it ceased to be "alternative," and became "mainstream." And that genre of music has no idea how to handle this new found popularity. Alternative music is having an identity crisis. What's worse, the vanguards of Dave Tyler alternative music are News Copy Ediror dealing with it in the worst ways possible. 
There seem to be two schools of thought trying to bridge the gap from CBGB's to Giant's Stadium. Both are angry and spiteful. and both are surprisingly narrow minded and short sighted, corning from a place that used to be so visionary. 
The first is musical snobbery. I guess its now trendy to deny that you are popular. or assert that you are just plain better than the rest o the music industry. 
A glaring example of such snobbery is the Smashing Pumpkins fan who felt compelled to use the Viewpoint page to ridicule The Observer's music critics for their choices o 1993's best albums. While it is okay to disagree with the selections, what was not okay was the tirade that followed. This writer actually thanked the critics for not including Smashing Pumpkins latest release on the top ten lists because, although "it was an excellent and innovative album, it would be an insult to all the Pumpkinheads for it to be included on these lists." 
While I'm sure fans of the Grateful Dead are insulted by a lack of creativity on the devotees of Billy Corrigan, I believe this Pumpkinteer has a hang up about his band "selling out." So what if they sold a few albums? So what if they won some critical acclaim? Maybe the rest of the world is finding out what you've known all along. That good music gets noticed. 
If the first school of thought is Dr. Jekyll, the second school is Mr. Hyde. This school is the exact opposite of exclusionary snobbishness: complete, saturated overkill. At times the word alternative is rammed down our throats. It seems that whoever makes the programming decisions feels obligated to name every band that burst onto the scene as "alternative." Under this new species of music, Alice in Chains, a band whose sound leans towards Black Sabbath and Bob Dylan are lumped into the same category. Soul Asylum, Spin Doctors and Sonic Youth are all thrown together. Do they all sound the same to you? 
Once they've got everyone classified under the same roof, its is now your civic duty as an American to listen to that music. And it is not an isolated occurrence. All over the airwaves. there is a drive to push alternative music right through America's eardrums. You just aren't cool if you don't believe that Pearl Jam's Ten is the best album of all time. 
Somewhere in the middle lies a happy medi­um. There are just two things the alternative music crowd needs to remember: one, to make money. you need to sell records and, two, to sell records you need to produce music people will like. So back off, and just let the music take you where it will. Everyone finds it a lot more enjoyable that way. Until enough people who control the airwaves figure that out, alternative music will continue to have and identity crisis. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAV'S STAFF 
Production News Whirney Sheets Kate Crisham Kathie Young Michael O'Hara Accent Sports Nora Buckley George Dohrmann Matt Carbone Viewpoint 
Tanya Krywaruczenko Suzy Fry 
Graphics Lab Tech 
Brendan Regan Sean Farnan Illustrations Pete Goyer 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 






Monday, February 7, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Lucas, Riley fill board openings Mtershocks continue; 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
damage estimates climb 
Saint Mary's News Editor Associated Press Beloit, Wis.
Sophomore John Lucas was "It woke me up. I knew it wasappointed Managing Editor and LOS ANGELES a four," said Fruzen, who, likesophomore Joseph Riley will Creaking windows and thousands of people after thetake over as Business Manager vibrating floors roused thou­deadly January quake, has be­
for the 1994-95 Observer Gen­eral Board, Jacob Peters editor­

sands of people Sunday as come a devotee of estimating in-chief elect announced Sun­predawn aftershocks struck ground motion magnitudes. "I 
_..........._ 

just minutes apart. No damage can sleep through the threes,day. 
Lucas, who will succeed John Lucas Joseph Riley was reported. but the fours get my attention." An aftershock measuring 4.1
Kevin Hardman, has served as per." "I look forward to this new on the Richter scale struck at There have been more thanAssociate News Editor since the The managing editor is ulti­position at The Observer," Riley 5:19 a.m. and lasted about five 3,500 aftershocks to the Jan.
fall of 1993. The St. Edward's mately responsible for the edi­said. "I look forward to the seconds. It was followed three 17 quake that killed 61 people
Hall resident is an English 
torial content and daily produc­challenge and moving up at the minutes later by a magnitude
major from Arlington Heights, and injured more than 9,000.
tion of the newspaper. 
Illinois. paper." 3.6 aftershock. Damage estimates range up to The Business Manager over­The shocks frightened chil­
''I'm excited about the oppor­$30 billion. 
Riley, a Dillon Hall resident, sees the operations board and dren and sent some of the 80 The quake was original mea­tunity to work with Jake Peters is from Erie, Pennsylvania and maintains the fmancial budget people staying at a Red Cross
and next year's general board," sured at a magnitude of 6.6,
is a Finance/Computer Applica­of the newspaper. 
Lucas said. "Next year should shelter in Granada High School but could be revised to 6.8, the
tions major. Riley was previ­Lucas and Riley will begin 
scurrying to dress, said Red National Earthquakebring changes that will make 
ously the circulation manager serving their new positions Cross volunteer Fran Fruzen of Information Center said. 

immediately after spring break. 

More remains returned to U.S.~hy Vietnam 
By GEORGE ESPER families of MIAs had strongly Vietnam is now pushing for Associated Press opposed the end of the em­diplomatic recognition. Just af­bargo, saying the United States ter Clinton announced the end HANOI, Vietnam would lose its leverage in forc­of the economic sanctions, 
Four days after the United ing Vietnam to cooperate in ac­Deputy Foreign Minister Le Mai States lifted the 19-year trade counting for the 2,238 Ameri­pledged Vietnam would con­embargo against Vietnam, can MIAs. tinue cooperating in trying to Hanoi is turning over on Mon­resolve MIA cases. day more remains of what are But the United States with­thought to be missing American held some carrots, the biggest Lt. Col John Cray, the U.S. servicemen. of which is the restoration of Army officer who heads the 
diplomatic ties, broken when MIA office in Hanoi, said the 
U.S. officials will announce Communist North Vietnam de­lifting of the embargo would the number ·of remains re­feated U.S.-backed South Viet­help his mission. turned after a ceremony at Noi nam in April1975. Bai International Airport. The United States also did not "I believe that the Viet­
President Clinton had made immediately grant Vietnam namese cooperation is at a lifting the embargo contingent "most favored nation" trade peak right now," he said. on Hanoi's cooperation in the status, which would lower tar­Vietnam and the United fullest possible accounting of iffs on Vietnamese imports to States will begin another major Americans missing in action the United States and make search operation Feb. 26 in­from the Vietnam War. them more competitive in the volving more than 100 Ameri­
U.S. veterans groups and American market. can specialists. 

WEEK OF FEBRUARY 7, 1994 

DEBATES CONTINUE... VOTE MONDAY, FEB. 7 
The  final  crime." Thehostteamswill  Student Body elec­ Corbett's includes a late-night  
preliminary round of Ice­berg Debates will be held at9p.m. on Tuesday, Feb­ruary 8. Stanford, Sarin, Dillon, Breen-Phillips, and Pangborn will host the de­ argue the affirmative posi­tion. The eight teams with the best records after this round will advance to the quarterfinal round on  tions will be held on Mon­day, February 7. The candi­dates are, in alphabetical or­der, Brian Coughlin and Maria Capua, Bryan Corbett and Karen DuBay, David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh,  club, an improvedDARTsys­tem, and an alumni mentor program; Hungeling's in­cludes a Grateful Dead con­cert and &ee football tickets; and King's includes a parking lot shuttle, a meal account,  
bate  on  the topic "Re­ Tuesday, February 15.  and Erin King and Deitz  and  a  prejudice reduction  
solved: that gun buy-back  Everyone is welcome to  Lefort. Coughlin's platform  workshop. Voting will take  
programs, through which  come out and support their  includes a shuttle from park­ place in each dorm, anda run­ 
guns are exchanged for  dorm's team as they at­ ing lots to dorms a "Req  ofF will be held on Wednes­ 
money, toys, tickets,  or  tempt to advance to  the  Sheet", and morestudyspace;  day, February 9 ifnecessary.  
other comparable goods,  next round.  SENATFJOFFICERS CANDIDATES MEETING  
are effective in combating  There will be  a  ary 10 at 7:30 p.m. in the  


mandatory information  Foster Room, located on  
meeting for all those inter­ the  third  floor  of  
ested in running for Stu­ LaFortune.  All potential  
dent Senate or Class Of­ candidates should attend.  
fice on Thursday, Febru- 

FORMER MISS AMERICA TO SPEAK 
Dr. Debbye remembering community Turner, the former 1990 responsibility". The event Miss America, will be is sponsored by the Office speaking on Wednesday, of Multicultural Student February 9 at 7:00p.m. in Mfairsandis free andopen the Library Auditorium. to the public. A reception Turner's topic will be "Ex­will follow in the library cellence in life's pursuits: lounge. 

----------~---­
~----------------~~--------~----­
page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 7, 1994 
-something in our hearts and souls," she said. "During this conference we have recommit­ted ourselves to the goal of su­perior Catholic education for women. We believe in the prin-. ciples, we have defined our dream, and set our vision, and hopefully, significantly pushed the boundaries." 


Speaker 
continued from page 1 
discussed the challenges that an education at a women's pre­sents. 
"It demands involvement, commitment, sacrifice, caring 

Saint Mary's graduate Mary Lou Gorno gave the keynote address Sat­urday night at Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's. Gorno praised the strong education and self-confidence she received at Saint Mary's. 

Disorders 
continued from page 1 
today's society," Block said. 
An eating disorder refers to a person's distorted, self-destruc­tive way of thinking, feeling and behaving around food and is both a problem and a symptom of a problem, according to Mas­cotte. 
"People with eating disorders have a message and you can't solve their problem by treating the disorder alone. Even from the extensive research that has been done on eating disorders, you can never tell what the un­derlying cause is for each spe­cific case. 
"The person faced with the problem must be encouraged to sort out their own puzzle to find the cause, whether it be self-es­teem or something more seri­ous such as an event that hap­pened in the past," Mascotte said. 
Anorexia nervosa is a serious disorder which often starts with dieting and becomes self-star­vation with loss of as much as 25 percent or more of body fat, according to a brochure from the Development Center. 
The person denies being thin, even when emaciated. Some anorexic sufferers, unable to control their hunger, turn to the habit of self-induced vomit­ing, purging or abuse of laxa­tives. 


Week 
continued from page 1 
• Women's Health Fair in Le Mans lobby on Tuesday. Sponsored by Memorial Hos­pital, the fair will address women's issues and offer glu­cose and breast exams as well 

Anorexics may get into the cycle of hinging followed by purging called bulimia. Not all bulimics have a history of anorexia. Others develop the habit of bulimia in the effort to loose a few pounds. A binge is often an initial physiological reaction to starvation, accord­ing to the Development Center. 
An effort to offset a binge may be self-induced vomiting, laxative abuse, diuretic abuse, frantic exercising, fasting, or a combination of these. 
Compulsive Overeating, in contrast to anorexia and bu­limia, involves the inability to maintain consistent body weight. lying about eating and the consumption of large amounts of food in short peri­ods of time, according to Mas­cotte. 
About 95 percent of those who suffer form eating disor­ders are female and 10 to 15 percent of all college-age women develop bulimia. These national statistics generally mirror the Saint Mary's popula­tion, according to Mascotte. 
"Persons with these disorders share some of the same behav­iors and concerns, especially the intense fear of becoming fat. Both groups set high ex­pectations for themselves and strive for success, which is why college students are vulnerable to them," Mascotte said. 
Although Mascotte encour­ages those with concerns to in­form the Development Center, 
as a massage therapist. 

Wednesday night at 9 p.m. is the debut of "Cawfee Tawk" at Dalloway's. On the agenda are coffee and conversation about the advantages and dis­advantages of a women's col­lege, and Saint Mary's in par­ticular. 
The Students League for 
she stresses that Saint Mary's is not a treatment program. 
"We believe in helping stu­dents who could be experienc­ing three stages of an eating disorder. We can identify those who are in the early stages, help them seek intensive treat­ment and offer support for con­tinued recovery following their treatment," she said. 
The following combine the re­lationship between statistics on eating disorders and every day life in the United States and were compiled-by Florentine Films who distributed "Food Fright." 
•A 
California study found that 80 percent of fourth-grade girls are already on their first diets. · •In 1921, the first Miss Amer­ica was five feet four inches and weighed 137 pounds. In 1987. Miss America was five feet eight inches and weighed 116 pounds. 

•The 
U.S. weight-loss indus­try (catering mostly to women) takes in $10 billion a year, sec­ond only to the arms industry. 

•A 
poll asked women what aspect of their lives they would most like to change: wages, lack of access to power, vulner­ability to poverty, inflation. pol­lution or nuclear war. Over 50 percent substituted their own answer. "my weight." 

•Up 
to two percent of those with eating disorders die as a result of their illness and its ef­fects. 


Women's Colleges is the main sponsor of the Women's Week events. League President Jenny Collins said that the Week is important because "we (want) to promote and ac­knowledge the importance of a women's college education in our society. (This week) is a service to the students who at­tend (these) colleges." 
~OBSERVER  
is now accepting applications for the 1994-95 General Board Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to jake Peters by Thursday, Feb. 10 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-5323. NEWS EDITOR ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. is responsible for generating advertising revenue. VIEWPOINT EDITOR AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout QuarkXPress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketingeditors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. SPORTS EDITOR PRODUCTION MANAGERApplicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas of QuarkXPress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. Theand special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and worksresponsible for the content of the sports section each day. closely with department staff on layout and design. ACCENT EDITOR SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge ofEditor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, over­computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the sees the Etc. page and is responsible for the content of the Accent pages each Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entireday. Observer staff on the use of the system: PHOTO EDITOR OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertis­Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work ers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with closely with department editors in assigning photographs. Ad Design manager and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strot~g self-motivation. SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. CONTROLLER The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties.  

..----------------------------------~~~ ~---~ -----~ 
Monday, February 7, 1994 The Observer • YUGOSLAVIA pageS 
Boutros-Ghali asks for airstrikes  Clinton hopes violence  
By TONY SMITH Associated Press  official said. The North Atlantic Treaty Or­ British Foreign Minister Dou­glas Hurd on Sunday warned  pushes factions to peace  
ganization voted in August to  that air strikes might provide  
SARAJEVO  provide air strikes on Serb  "one day of satisfaction," fol­ ByTOMRAUM troops in Bosnia as part of the  
U.N.  Secretary-General  troops ringing Sarajevo if the  lowed by an intensification of  Associated Press U.N. humanitarian effort.  
Boutros Boutros-Ghali asked  United Nations requested them.  the siege, with the Serbs cutting  Canada, and to a lesser  
NATO on Sunday to approve air  NATO leaders toughened their  all humanitarian aid.  WASHINGTON extent England, are concerned  
strikes on mortar positions  stance at a summit last month,  U.S.  Defense  Secretary  President Clinton ruled out about proceeding with air  
around Sarajevo, one day after  but  had  been  waiting  for  William Perry backed away  any immediate air strikes in strikes, said an administration  
the deadliest attack on the city  Boutros-Ghali's request.  from the threat of U.S.  air  Bosnia  in  retaliation  for official, speaking on condition  
in  the  22-month  siege  by  There  was  no  immediate  strikes, calling instead for a ne­ shelling that claimed at least 68 of anonymity.  
Bosnian Serbs.  word on when the NATO Coun­ gotiated settlement.  lives, but said Sunday he hoped "That does not mean it won't  
The death toll from Satur­ cil would meet.  Speaking to European de­ "the shock of these deaths" happen," Clinton said of air  
day's shelling of a busy mar­ NATO sources in Brussels,  fense officials in Munich, Ger­ might spur new peace over­strikes.  
ketplace rose to 68, while three  Belgium, speaking on condition  many, Perry asked, "If air  tures. But he said the United States  
U.S. cargo planes arrived to  of anonymity, said Sunday it  strikes are Act One of a new  Saturday's  carnage  in  a does not have the authority to  
evacuate victims of the mas­ was unlikely NATO would turn  melodrama, what is Act Two,  crowded market in Sarajevo is order the strikes on its own.  
sacre.  down a request from Boutros­ Act Three and the conclusion?"  "terrible and outrageous" and "We are working at the high­ 
The  Bosnian  government  Ghali to approve air strikes.  But Belgium's foreign minis­ "obviously, it seems highly like­est level" with U.S. allies on the  
declared a day of mourning,  They were commenting before  ter  urged  air  strikes  be  ly  that  the  Serbs  are  re­air strike question, Madeleine  
and residents railed at a world  Boutros-Ghali's request was  launched. France demanded  sponsible," the president said. Albright, the U.S. ambassador  
they say should be stopping the  made public.  NATO set a deadline for the  The United Nations should to the United Nations, told CNN  
fighting rather than mopping  In comments over the week­ Serbs to lift their siege or face  speed up its efforts to pinpoint after Clinton spoke.  
up after it.  end, the 16-member alliance  military action. French officials  the blame, Clinton told re­Clinton's remarks followed an  
A senior U.N. official in New  demonstrated it was not in full  said the NATO ambassadors  porters. emergency meeting at the  
York, speaking on condition of  agreement about the wisdom of  probably would meet in Brus­ White House of most of his na­ 
anonymity, said Boutros-Ghali  increased  involvement  in  sels, Belgium, within 48 hours  But he called on members of tional security team. Defense  
sent a letter Sunday night to  Bosnia's war, which has killed  to discuss the ultimatum.  Congress to tone down their Secretary William Perry was on  
NATO Secretary General Man­ more than 200,000 Muslims,  The United Nations' to.p civil­ rhetoric  in  calling  for  air his way back from Germany  
fred Woerner asking hi.m to  Serbs and Croats.  ian official for the former Yu­ strikes, explaining that some and was to talk to Clinton by  
seek authorization from NATO  Some nations, notably Britain  goslavia, Yasushi Akashi, said  European allies remain hesi­phone on returning to the  
members for air strikes.  and Canada, have been reluc­ he had been unable to reach  tant because they have troops United States.  
The strikes would be targeted  tant to call in planes for fear of  agreement in talks Sunday with  on the ground who could be With Clinton out of town - 
"against artillery or mortar po­ spreading  the  war  and  of  Bosnia's  government  and  targeted for reprisals if air he left for Houston later Sunday  
sitions in or around Sarajevo  reprisals against their troops  Bosnian Serbs on a cease-fire  strikes take place. France, -his national security team  
which are responsible for at­ serving with the U.N. aid op­ and monitoring of weapons  England  and  Canada  are was to hold another meeting on  
tacks on civilian targets," the  eration in Bosnia.  around Sarajevo.  among the nations with ground Bosnia on Monday.  



Clinton also said he favors ­and always has -a lifting of the United Nations arms em­bargo so that the Muslim-led government of Bosnia can be armed to help defend itself. 
"I think the United States po­sition on the arms embargo is only reinforced by the kind of thing that happened yester­day," he said. 
Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole said a decision by Clinton to order air strikes would have "strong bipartisan support" in Congress. 
"I think it would certainly send a strong message to Bel­grade," Dole told NBC-TV. 
\'., . \ //
\ ·... -:... --. 
<~E~:~;c~ 
.. "i~.:::~ . 
./--·\.. 
Hav 
ClJST.OM..GENERAL & MAJOR CLEANING 
SPEcw.IZINGIN: 
FINE HOMES • OFFICES APARTMENTS e COl\1:\It:IKIAL 
INSURED • BONDED 
REFERENCES AVAILABLE 
FREE ESTIMATES 
"CARPET CLEA!'i'ING A Y A.ILABLE" 
PRONE: {ll9)13U94t 


London $395* Paris $389* Madrid $389* Munich $515* Milan $585* 
•Airfares are roundtrip from Chi~ago. Restrictions apply, taxes are not included and fares are subject to change. Call farotherwondwide destinations. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearbom St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels magazine 

page6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, February 7, 1994 
NASA again unsuccessful in deployment of satellite 
By MARCIA DUNN Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 

For the second day in a row, NASA failed to release a sci­ence satellite from space shut­tle Discovery on Sunday and tried to salvage what little it could from the experiment. 
Ground controllers raced against the clock to try to re­solve the latest satellite prob­lem: a malfunctioning guidance system. NASA said Monday would be its last opportunity to deploy the Wake Shield Facility, one of the primary purposes of the shuttle mission. 
"We have not lost hope," Mission Control assured Dis­covery's astronauts just before they went to bed. 
The Wake Shield was sup­posed to fly free of the shuttle for two days so scientists could try to grow semiconductor films in the ultra-clean wake created by the saucer-shaped craft. There would be time for only 
Quilts 
continued from page 1 
said. "Naturally this work pro­vided them with a substantial sense of themselves." 
This newly developed confi­dence and organizational skills gave the women of the 19th century the ability establish the temperance movement, the largest mass movement of American women. 
"Wives and children were threatened by male drinking," Hedges said. "The movement helped them to establish social controls and to give them greater power." 
one day of free flight if deployed Monday. 
As Discovery whizzed around Earth with the Wake Shield propped on the end of the shut­tle crane, Mission Control struggled to pinpoint the prob­lem with the satellite's horizon sensor. The infrared sensor is supposed to help guide the satellite when it flies. 
Alex Ignatiev, the project's chief researcher. said man­agers had gone out of their way to install a guidance system with a strong track record. Similar systems have flown on 50 other spacecraft without er­ror, he said. 
The crew was disappointed after two days of failure, espe­cially astronaut Ronald Sega, who had spent years working on the Wake Shield. Cosmonaut Sergei Krikalev, the first Rus­sian to fly on a U.S. shuttle, had trained for more than a year to retrieve the satellite with Dis­covery's robot arm. 
quilts have on society today," she said. 
Hedges spoke on Friday evening at the Little Theater in Moreau at Saint Mary's. 
Women associated with the suffrage movement were often­times considered "unwomanly". This derogatory labeling deterred many women from supporting the cause. 
"Sewing and quilting proved that they could be both feminist ~~~~~~;7t;_,~~~~d
and feminine," said Hedges. "It was a form of good politics." 
Quilts today are also con­cerned with social ills and injustices, according to Hedges. 
"The AIDS quilt is a good ex­
ample of the influence~th~a~t~============ 
Early Week Special: 2 Small Pizzas $10 
(unlimited toppings) 
Good Now Thru Wednesday CALL NOW! 
Carry Out/ Delivery 273-3890 

The Observer/Laura Grendahl 
High technology 

Holy Cross Hall residents Mary Ann Livovich and Julie Kerr use a computer to help them study Spanish. 

Dr. J. Clay Smith, Jr. 
Fonner Dean and Current Professor of Law at the Harvard University School of Law 
"Justice and Jurisprudence and the Black Lawyer" 
Barry Courtroom, Notre Dame Law School Wednesday, February 9, 1994 at 2:00p.m. 


HERE COME THE AMISH 
A FIRESIDE CHAT 
Come leam about the Anabapnst historyand cu~re. Gain a nevv perspecUve on the component6 ofthe AnabapUst religions -the Mennonites, the Amish, and the Hutterites 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY IO • I2:I5-I:OOPM NOTRE DAME RooM • LAFoRTUNE 
Authentic Amish Lunch Provided 


BROUGHT To You BY THE MULTICULTURAL ExEcuTIVE CouNCIL 


Monday, February 7, 1994 The Observer • MIDDLE EAST page7 
ter talking with senior aides

• Service • Community • Culture • 
late Sunday. 
Matemowski's 212-0910

Stereotype -Awareness 
103 Dixie way/Us 31-1ilmi. No/Campus 

Service 

That•s what we•re all about. Interested? 
Open on o/afentine s

Multicultural Executive Council Seating 5-9 9r{a.Kg_ ?'"our ~ervations
is now accepting applications for 
WHAT KIND Of FONDUE

the 1994-95 school year 
DO WE OFFER? 
ch~esc•bcef•chid.,·n 
seafood•vegetable• Flaming chocolate 

Applications can be picked up in the Student 
JIE Rese'1far<'JOS Rec~ • j 
219•255-1526 
-I

Activities Office. Deadline: February 18 
I 


lues. ftlflrS ~;ea(lt19 :,p.m.-9\:• I
r 
F" & i>al. :,edhng 5~•.m. 10 p m , 
!OO('E:-.;TER•MISH.\WAKA. 1:\ I Upper~ eve' O!d Brewery Btdg ! 

-I 

Peace support wanes as clashes rise 
By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Palestinians were jubilant at the prospect of better lives when moves toward self-rule were announced. Not quite five months later, they're again ea­ger to attack Israeli targets and challenge PLO leader Yasser Arafat. 
The bitter mood in the Israeli-occupied territories turned blacker Sunday when bickering between Israeli politi­cians and top generals threat­ened further delays in achiev­ing Palestinian autonomy. 
"Peace is not a theory, it's something that ordinary people need to touch," said Raji Sourani, a lawyer who heads the Gaza Center for Rights and Law. 
There have been some changes since the accord be­tween Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization was signed in Washington on Sept. 13, 1993. 
Palestinians could openly raise their flag, an act that used to draw Israeli gunfire. Over 700 Palestinians have been re­leased from Israeli jails and a few streets sealed with barrels 
Open Minded~~ Reduct· Stereoty 
$1 
Prejudi ® CLJit Servic Open Reduct 
to prevent stone-throwing have are resuming the intefadeh," been opened. he added, using the Arabic 
But under the original plan, word for the uprising against the Israeli army was to start the Israeli occupation that withdrawing from the Gaza started in 1987. Strip and the West Bank area The numbers tell why. Since around Jericho on Dec. 13 and the agreement was signed, 62 fmish withdrawing by April 13. Palestinians have died in clash­Palestinians were to police the es with Israelis, including six streets and civilian authorities children under the age of 16. In were to assume responsibility the same period 20 Israeli sol­for taxation, housing and utili­diers and civilians have been ties. killed. 
There are no deadlines now. Thousands of Palestinians 
Instead, the process is in Is­remain behind bars, some for raeli hands. In Cairo, PLO acts like raising the flag that spokesman Saeed Kamal said are no longer illegal. Arrests Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon continue. Over 50,000 Arabs Peres would. meet with a PLO lost jobs in Israel as a security delegation Monday. He said measure to try to minimize Arafat would arrive Tuesday attacks, and more work permits for talks with Egyptian are being confiscated at ran­President Hosni Mubarak, but dom. would not say if Arafat and Israel subjects entire neigh­Peres would meet. borhoods to power cuts if some 
Already, Israeli officials have residents don't pay bills. Land noticed a sharp shift in Pales­confiscation have risen sharply, tinian attitudes. and house demolitions or dis­
"The Palestinian population ruptive searches continue. woke up," an officer responsi­Israeli officials have said that ble for undercover operations the number of Israeli troops in told the weekly AI Hamishmar. the occupied lands is at one of He could not be identified due its highest levels ever. The Is­to army regulations. raeli human rights group Betse­
"They thought they would lem has noted a marked rise in experience a new reality. They the use of undercover opera­know this is not true. So they tives. 
Many of Arafat's aides urged him not to meet with Peres per­
• Prejudice 
sonally until Israel was willing to make more concessions, said PLO insiders, who spoke on
inating 
condition of anonymity. They said Abed-Rabbo and Mahmoud Abbas, who signed
s Service 
the September accord with Peres in Washington, were among those advising Arafat to
mmunity 
stay away. 
ness • Culture Prejudice minating 
VBIBntlne Bpec/a/8 a.• + , 

Arafat receiving pressure from all sides ofpeace issue 
By SALAH NASRAWI 
Associated Press 

TUNIS, Tunisia 
Senior PLO leaders are urg­ing Yasser Arafat not to meet with Israel's foreign minister, as a way to pressure the Jewish state into greater flexibility over delayed Palestinian self­rule, sources said Sunday. 
But Egypt and the United States are pushing the PLO chairman to go ahead with the meeting in Cairo, t 
Egypt, the Shimon Peres 

sources at the Palestine Liberation Organization's headquarters in Tunis said. 
In Cairo, Saeed Kamal, the PLO's ambassador to Egypt, said Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres would meet with a PLO delegation Monday. He said Arafat would arrive in Cairo on Tuesday for talks with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. but he would not say if a meeting was scheduled with Peres. 
"Arafat will follow what is happening ... and will decide during his meeting with Presi­dent Mubarak the direction of negotiations," Kamal said. 
Peres confrrmed Sunday that he planned to go to Cairo on Monday and said he expected to meet with Arafat this week. Peres said Saturday that he did not foresee an agreement being completed this week. 
Arafat and Peres had been expected to make another per­sonal attempt to work out the fmal details of an agreement on limited Palestinian autonomy in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town ofJericho. 
Israel and the PLO signed a general accord on self-rule Sept. 13 in Washington. 
But Israeli withdrawal from those areas has been delayed by bickering over security mat­ters, economic coordination and Palestinian civil adminis­tration. 
The Israelis have said three key security issues are unre­solved: control of border cross­ings to Egypt and Jordan, secu­rity for Jewish settlements in the autonomous zones and the size of the Jericho area. 
Yasser Abed-Rabbo, a PLO executive committee member, said Arafat would make up his mind on the Cairo meeting af­

pageS The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 7, 1994 
Budget officials defend cuts in $1.5 trillion plan 
ByALANFRAM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

liberal Democrats and lobby­ists aimed fire at President Clinton on Sunday for cuts he will seek in his 1995 budget, as administration officials de­fended the $1.5 trillion blue­print on the eve of its release. 
''I'm not satisfied with the budget," Rep. Kweisi Mfume, D-Maryland, chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
Mfume took special issue with Clinton's plans to whittle down spending for public housing and heating assistance, saying, "Those things are getting close to becoming what we call non­negotiable items." 
Clinton's package, for the fis­cal year that begins next Octo­ber 1, will lack the dramatic tax increases and spending reductions the president sought a year ago in his first budget. That proposal paved the way for last summer's enactment of his near-$500 billion deficit-re­duction plan. 
But to meet the tight stric­tures imposed by last August's package -and pay for in­creases Clinton wants for scores of other programs -the budget will propose eliminating 115 small programs, and hold­ing nearly 600 others at or below the amounts they were allowed for this year. 
The proposed cuts would total $25 billion, said one administration official who spoke Sunday on condition of anonymity. Of that, $8 billion will be used to beef up favored programs such as job training and technological research, and the rest to contain a 1995 deficit the administration will project at $176.1 billion-the lowest level since 1989. 
Word of the spending cuts has already angered many members of Congress, all of whom have favorite programs they furiously defend. Law­makers will spend most of the year deciding which of the president's proposals to embrace and which to ignore. 
Special interest groups are also wasting little time gearing up. 
The American Public Transit 

Association warned Sunday that nearly seven in 10 mass transit systems would have to 
~i r•y~~· J~nAm~m'•#l T~opo•m~.
~ Wo off., m~o parl•• and ad:''""' 
• • at the guaranti!Mtd lowest pnces 
• ~ on-campuslll 
Cancun Mexico l.am$439 Negril Jamaica l.om$449 Montego Bay Jamaica f,..m$419 Daytona Beach, FL f,..m$149 Panama City Beach, FL l.om$129 

Call for a Local Representative 
120 North Aurora St.,lthac:Q, NY 1-4850 
raise fares if Congress approves Clinton's proposal to cut operating assistance to com­muter train and bus systems. 
"This is the potential after­shock of an unfortunate budget decision," said association Ex­ecutive Vice President Jack Gilstrap, whose group surveyed commuter systems across the country. 
Clinton wants to cut the pro­gram by $200 million from its current $800 million level, gov­ernment and industry officials have said. A program for help­ing local governments buy buses and other equipment would be increased instead. 
Administration officials said cuts in those and other pro­grams were needed to help re­duce the deficit and to pay for increases in education. crime fighting, and other favored ini­tiatives. 
On NBC-TV, with Mfume, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen conceded that getting the president's proposed cuts through Congress would not be easy. 
"They couldn't do it before, and now we're talking about doing it now," Bentsen said. "Each of these has an interest group of course. and that's what you have to overcome." 
The budget will claim that tens of billions of dollars can be saved over the next five years if Congress enacts Clinton's plan to revamp health care. Part of the savings will come from a previously announced plan to increase the cigarette tax. 
Other details of Clinton's bud­get emerged Sunday. According to an administration official, the president will propose: 
•$69 
million for research on alternative fuel vehicles, $25 million more than this year. 

•A 
reduction in the program that helps the poor pay heating bills from $1.4 billion this year to $730 million in 1995. 

•$100 
million over the next two years to build a new rail­road terminal to replace Penn­sylvania Station in Manhattan, in the home state of Senate Fi­nance Committee Chairman Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D­New York. 

•A 
$196 million cut in Agriculture Department flood­prevention and watershed pro­grams. 



Support, funds sought in trip 
ByNANCYBENAC 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
President Clinton is mixing policy and politics on a three­day Southern swing designed to fatten Democratic Party coffers and promote his new federal budget. 
The president was expected to raise $2 million Sunday night at a glitzy Texas Presidential Dinner and Gala at Houston's Wortham Center, the money to be divided between the Demo­cratic National Committee and the Texas state party. 
A few hundred guests were paying $10,000 a couple for a buffet dinner with the president before a larger $1,000-per-cou­ple reception featuring country and Western entertainment by Asleep at the Wheel. 

Before the fund-raising events, Clinton met with hun­dreds of young cancer patients at a Houston hotel, sitting with several of them on his lap and answering their questions about what it's like to be presi­dent. Sometimes he feels like being just "an ordinary citi­zen," he told them. 
Clinton is trying to build sup­port in politically important Texas, where his approval rat­ings drooped into the 20s last year before rebounding to the 50 percent range in recent months. 
The first stop on Clinton's agenda Sunday was the Ameri­can Cancer Society children's party at the Four Seasons Hotel in Houston. 
On Monday, the president's focus shifts from politics to pol­icy. Clinton planned to promote his proposed $1.5 trillion bud­get for fiscal 1995 before Houston business leaders as the spending plan was being un­veiled in Washington. 
The president wants to cut spending on more than 300 programs to free up money for priorities including job training, education and crime fighting. 
With the latest space shuttle mission still in progress, Clinton planned a Monday afternoon visit to the Johnson Space Flight Center to tour shuttle training facilities. 
Seniors, 
Come on Down••• 
to Senior Bar 
for a chance to win these fabulous prizes! 
1. 
A trip to Mardi Gras-includes plane, hotel, and spending money. 

2. 
Senior Formal package-includes second city, ticket, hotel, and spending money 

3. 
Four movie passes 


4. 
Dinner for four at Macri's 

5. 
Brunch for two at Tippecanoe 


...and many other prizes including Rocco's, C.j.'s, and others. 
join Bob and his Beauties on Wednesday, Feb. 9 at Senior Bar. The cost is $1°0 per raffle ticket. The games will begin at 11:00 p.m. 
I ~AFAYETTE s 

TOWNHO "Luxury Livinf{ You Can Enjoy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 

• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 


• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 



Meet OurFriendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
ICf VllniA (I'Cll): l!jl, 2:45, ,••7•.1:31 
llf!a'll'l n1 !PCl: 1•.s•.5:15, 7:15. t15 UI(JJ: 1:45, 4:SI, 7:SI, ll;tl CllllfY IIIIIIIIPS11):1:15, 4:1i, t45, l;tl 
• m (PC): lt.li, t:SI, 5:15, 7;11,1;45 PllJI!liiiA(I'Cll):l:SI, 4:45,7:15, t45 
•.-llllf(Pill): 4:15,7:15, t45 1lf AI• TBE (PC): 4:SI, 7••1;11 
IAY.-s...IIPS11):5•.7:SI, 11:11 


CAMPUSES 

Monday, February 7, 1994 page9 
Crime on campus challenges administrators, students 
Michigan State responds to safety Security increases problem with new programs measures at Duke 
By KATHY HAUSMANN News Writer 
At Michigan State University, the university's size has con­tributed to the increased prob­lem of crime on campus, mak­ing security a more difficult task for campus police. 
According to Lt. Dale Metts of the Department of Police and Public Safety at MSU, the col­lege experiences more crime than most other campuses, yet it is a "reasonably safe area" when compared to the rest of East Lansing, where the cam­pus is located. 
For students at MSU, safety is an issue that requires them to take some special precautions. 
Female student Grazyna Wierzbicka also believes that the campus "is safe during the day. but there are still out­siders who are really not to be trusted, especially if you're a girl. You just have to be more careful about walking outside by yourself." 
Yet walking at night isn't the only safety concern for those attending MSU. Last semester, in Phillips-Snyder Hall. a co-ed dorm, a male entered a wom­en's bathroom and fondled two female students. 
Police responded to the situa­tion by arresting a suspect that is currently awaiting trial. In addition, bathroom doors have been equiped with locks that can only be opened with a room key. 
Similar precautions have now been taken at the University of Michigan, seeking to stop the 
News Writer 
The recent attempted sexual assault on a Notre Dame stu­dent at the Grotto has left many students with questions and 
NOTRE DAME 
concerns about security at 
Notre Dame. 
"We hope people will see in­
cidents like this and take ap­
propriate actions to protect 
themselves," said Phil Johnson, 
assistant director of campus 
security. "Notre Dame is going 
to be safe not because of what 
Notre Dame security does, but 
because of how the community 
chooses to live." 
The Notre Dame Police 
Department, a fully authorized 
police agency by the State of 
Indiana, is involved in a myriad 
of activities daily to keep the 
BRIEFS Dayton fraternity runs for charity 
The Sigma Nu Fraternity at the University of Dayton ran a 21 0-mile relay race between Dayton and Cincinnati and back in freezing temperatures to raise $10,000 for the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. About 30 members took turns running one mile each, carrying a bas­ketball in the relay race that was presented at a game problem before any such inci­
and Ohio State

dents occur. 
With 13 first-degree rapes, one second-degree rape, 224 ~ University spends car break-ins, and 260 bicycle $300,00 per year on their Safe thefts, the issue of security has Walk program. Officers and warranted increased attention 
students provide walking and by campus police. In reaction 
NATIONAL COLLEGIATE van escorts on campus, includ­to this need, the MSU Police ing to and from parking lots. 
CRIME DATA

have set up special programs. 
Parking lots are monitored byOne such program involves a camera surveilance system

ROBBERIES BURGLARIES

the Sexual Assault 10-point 
and a PA system that detects
1992-1353 1992-21478

guarantee, a written code 
1991-1210 (11.8%) 1991-22332 (3.8%) sounds disturbances, such as
telling victims of sex offenses breaking glass. 
what will happen to them and 
AGGRAVATED ASSAULT MURDERS 
Dorm access requires card

how they will be treated by the 
1992--3224 ~ 1992-17 
entry, restricting the entry ofdepartment when they report 

1991--3141 (2.6%) v 1991-18 (5.9%) 

non-residents. University Metts believes that this pro­their situation. 
MOTOR VEHICLE THEFTS FORCIBLE SEX OFFENSES employees also require special gram "increases the number of 
1992-7350 1992--448 identification to enter dorms. reports, not the number of 
1991-7159 (2.7%) 1991-* 
In order to prevent break-ins, rapes," even if it statistically 

academic buildings are
* No data available due to changes in definition of sex crimes

makes the campus look as if it equipped with special alarms
Data taken from The Chronicle of Higher Eduaction survey of

has more sex offenses than at 
774 colleges nationwide that sound if doors are proppedother schools. 

open for more than 45 seconds. 
Another program involves In 1993, there were 71 casesplacing officers in selected res­of assault, 977 cases of larceny idence halls to hold "office and 19 cases of motor vehicle
hours" to speak with students. According to Metts, this 
theft. "determines what needs the Ohio State University; A
ROBBERIES

community has and how the 
1992--Q

MSU Police will assist in help­
1991--Q N/C

ing" to satisfy those needs. A three-year plan to reduce 
AGGRAVATED ASSAULT 

1992-2 ~ place. Police choose one area 
crime on campus is also in 
1991-1 (100%) v that they believe needs addi­
MOTOR VEHICLE THEFTS

tional attention, and try to re­
1992--8 1L

duce the amount of crime in 
1991-17 (52.9%) v

that particular area. Thus far, efforts have been 
successful, with car break-ins 
Data taken from "Safety Information from Notre Dame Secur­

decreasing by 27 percent and 
ity/Police" brochure for 1993-94 school year. In 1993, there were 71 cases 
of assault, 1355 cases of larce­

bicycle thefts down 41 percent 
in MSU's second year moving 
ny, and 33 cases of motor vehi­

towards a safer campus. 
~:~~~G~R poli~~.~~~~his~nc:~~~~:.~.~. ~~~ fu,••, 
monitoring the entry of motor itself. Johnson responded, "We 
vehicles onto campus at the two checkpoints. 
"Of all security isues, parking and access to campus is the one that tears at the relationship between us and students," said Johnson. 
According to Johnson, restricting cars on campus insures the safety of pedestri­ans and the drivers themselves, particularly on weekends when individuals more likely to have been drinking. 
"Officially, students are not permitted to drive on campus. Exceptions are made of course when students are carying heavy loads in their cars, for example," Johnson said. 
Many students would argue that having to walk from the student lots in the dark, espe­cially in light of last week's in-
between Dayton and Xavier University. 
Students indicted for false loans 
After forging signatures and authorization codes on student loan applications to receive almost $50,000 in illegally­obtained student loans, fifteen past and present students at Prairie View A&M University in Texas have been indicted. 
don't want anyone to be put at risk by the actions of our offi­cers. That is why SafeWalk is available." 
Officers also respond to stu­dents who are locked out of their cars and transports stu­dents to the iilliTIIlary or to off­campus hospitals when neces­sary. 
Some security personnel re­cently completed a training video on helping victims of sex­ual assault. Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students par­ticipated as well. 
While the Notre Dame Police are a separate entity in and of themselves, they frequently co­operate with local law enforce­ment agencies. 
"Our relationship with the lo­cal police is good. In fact, we are part of a joint special 
Arrest warrants were to be issued after a clerk at the uni­versity brought attention to the forged applications. 
Professors warn of 'strange' classes 
With controversy arising from a policy at the University of Iowa that forced professors to warn students before showing sexually explicit material in class, the administration 
BURGLARIES 
Crime Watch Escort Service is
1992-5 
provided from 12-1 a.m. during
1991-11 (54.5%) 

weekdays, and from 1-2 a.m. MURDERS on weekends. 
1992--Q 
University police are not
1991--Q 
responsible for protection of the student parking lots. 
FORCIBLE SEX OFFENSES 

1992-2 ~ Dorms are secured at all 
1991-1 (100%) v times and must be accessed either with keys or identifica­tion. 
cle theft. 
I 
The Observer/Laura Gntndahl 

Assistant Director of Campus Security, Phil Johnson, monitors campus 
crime activity. 

crimes unit taht has been very successful," said Johnson. 
From a statistical standpoint, incidents of reported crime are down over the last two years, particularly for robbery, bur­glary, and motor vehicle theft. 
revised its policy to state that students must be warned about "unusual or unexpected class presentations or materials." Reaction has varied among staff. 
VA Tech sued for sex discrimination 
Claiming that the varsity sports policy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University violates sex-discrimi-Larceny reamains the single most prevalent crime. 
As Johnson stated. "The qual­ity of life here is such that we'd all like to leave our doors open. Unfortunately. that can't be safely done." 
nation laws for schools receiv­ing federal aid, twelve female students have filed suit to add women's crew, field hockey, lacrosse, and softball as varsity sports to the school's athletic program. Virginia Tech, which just added a women's varsity soccer team last year, has pro­posed a "gender-equity" plan for sports to increase female participation in varsity sports over the next five years. 
Information from the Chronicle ofHigher Education 
VIEWPOINT 

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Maruoging Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ..................l ......Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor .................................Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............ .Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letrers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Phoro  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR ND needs the real flannel aura  
Dear Editor: to do something for the stu­On college campuses across dents. (plug) Imagine the fit the country people are getting people would throw if there involved and acting on their was a rally or a protest or a thoughts and emotions. There survey? "I'm sorry, I have to go are students out there who are to the 'Brare to read for my not simply playing Sega, whin­Econ test in two weeks." ing about sports teams, or com­People are too worried about plaining about their inability to their futures and forgetting see the opposite sex late at what education is all about. I night. Some even speak up in don't mean you have to transfer class, say 'Hi' to strangers, and to Brown or CU, but break the leave their rooms for something mold a little. Don't worry, you besides yo-cream. go to Notre Dame, you will get Remember when learning meant challenging professors, each other, and the system in general? I look around and see little clones falling into a con­servative rut. Not to say Notre Dame doesn't have its bo­hemian counter-culture, but it simply isn't visual, vocalized, or taken seriously. We laugh at PLS majors. Arguments here range from which Clinton gov­ernment atrocities are the worst to who makes more money; lawyers or accountants. What has happened to action and voice? Maybe we need some people who are not trying to build their resumes in Student Government and want ND/SMC provide Dear Editor: best company of all as my wife On December 19, I became and I faced some urgent statistic: I collapsed at home decions. We could not count all and when I came to my senses, of the cards, phone calls and I found myself in the hospital flowers that we have received listening to a brain surgeon tell from students, colleagues and me that I had a brain tumor. I friends at ND/SMC. soon learned that each year While I can not teach this 20,000 Americans are diag­semester, I can tell you that I nosed with primary brain miss the classroom dearly. I tumors, making for a suprising­can also tell you that the ly large group for good compa­surgery went very well, and ny. The Notre Dame/Saint that the good days far outnum­Mary's community has been the ber the bad. I am building up  a job. We don't have to play Devil's advocate to everything, but ex­pression of opinion is not for­bidden in du Lac. Have an open mind, Notre Dame is becoming stagnant. If you disagree, take a good look in the mirror, you rebel. my energy for the arrival of our firt child in March, and for a return to the classroom next fall. Rosie and I would like to thank all of you for your thoughts and prayers; it's a lot easier to bounce back when there are so many people hold­ing the net. PAUL McDOWELL Assistant Professional Specialist and Concurrent Lecturer in French  ing, unless a song like "U Can't Touch This" is played. Whenever a person of color requests that an upbeat song . . This A be played, they are often given as ltiii.fr~Wl1SOrtQl~+~sox;ry. we don't · ......•.. h~ye t}lat,''•t Many times a decent song will be played, so my date and I begin dancing. Not bumping and grinding. just casual dancing. More than once we are stared at or given negative loo¥;s. This makes us feel isolated a-detached from our dormmates. It also ma~es like th.ere's nothing for am I. suggest­are raCist or committees . off to put a ;+and I know they everybody to come and have a blast. But they should realize that students of colgr are staying away from dance~ in large numbers and there are substantial reasons t'oi.thtJ,t. }V~ reruly don't know . who .we (f~n complain to or if ····. any):)ody -will care. Hopefully a rector or dorm commissioner will read this and discuss pos­sible solutions. Obviously I can't speak for . every st1.1dent of color on this campus, but I do know a mas­sive amount share these con­We want to feel like a ·NJJ.,cop:uuunity, .. C.''l/' 0 '·•-"·~.... aliuge part of feeling ofthe Family under "' the Until these dances are more diverse we don't feel like m(;lmbers of that Family. S<>ph<>more Grn,ce J;iall  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  


IIone meets his destiny often on the road one takes to avoid it." 
-French Proverb 
r-----~------------------------------------------~--------------~--~~----~~~-------------------------------~------~-.-------------, 
ACCENT 

Monday, February 7, 1994 page 11 

Like a good neighbor, program e ps acclimate Hispanic families to Michiana 
El Buen Vecino 
By TANYA KRYWARUCZENKO 
Assistant Accent Editor 
I
n this day and age when the world can seem so cold and unfeeling to 
newcomers to the area, a new pro­gram in South Bend now lends a helping hand. 
El Buen Vecino is a newly-formed, non-profit center "that assists families to become self-sufficient," said Sara Haber, executive director of El Buen Vecino. 
"We educate their minds and prepare them for jobs after graduating from the program." 
The program, headquartered in down­town South Bend, serves the entire Michiana area. 
El Buen Vecino mainly serves Hispanic families, but also helps others, accord­ing to Jim Hogan, director of Edutra, a tutoring program which is among the services that El Buen Vecino offers. 
El Buen Vecino, originally Haber's idea, was chartered in Nov., 1992, according to Hogan. 
"El Buen Vecino is very young," said Hogan. "It's only a year old, which is such a short life for a non-profit organization. It's now just getting on its feet." 
Hogan explained that the Notre Dame community has been a tremendous source of help for the program. 
"They've contributed many, many hours," he said. Among the groups lend­ing aid to the fledgling program are the Center for Social Concerns and the Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics (CASH). 
"What the University hopes to do with this program is to bridge the gap between the Notre Dame community and the South Bend community," said Hogan. 
El Buen Vecino has a variety of differ­ent programs to fit many different needs. 
The main program that the Notre Dame students participate in is Edutra, a tutoring program wherein students go to a family's home and help to improve their English speaking skills. 
"This is an interesting program because normally students go to classes, but here we take the classes to the stu­dents," he said. 
Senior Patricia Villarreal is one of the participants in the tutoring program. 
"Last semester we mainly worked with the family on speaking English," said Villarreal. 
"They can speak English well, but they need help with the pronunciation." 
Villarreal explained that not only do the tutors help the families with the English language, but they also help with other practical things which might arise. 
"I worked with the father of the family who was trying to get a driver's license," said Villarreal. 
"I brought a driver's manual, which we went over together. I helped him identify the different traffic signs." 
Villarreal said that the program is extremely rewarding. 
"I can tell that when we get [to their house] everyone is waiting for us, because they are looking out of the win­dows-! know they are really happy to see us," she said. 
"I really like the interaction we have with the family," she said. "We go there to teach them, but we also have conver­sations with them." 
Villarreal added that many of the tutors can relate to their tutorees because they have similar cultural back­grounds. 
"Whenever we leave there, we leave feeling happy," explained Villarreal. 
"You're glad that you went because you feel so good you helped someone and they appreciated it." 
Hogan said that student participation has increased over the past year. 
Although students are mainly involved with the tutoring program, Hogan said there are many other programs that El Buen Vecino offers that eventually may need student help. 
One of these programs is La Huerta. 
La Huerta, meaning "the garden" in Spanish, is a vegetable garden that members of El Buen Vecino have plant­ed in the area, said Hogan. "They plant seeds, take care of the land, and harvest it." 

"Not only do they work the fields themselves, but at the same time they grow their own food," said Hogan. 
"It saves them money and they get their own produce. It's a wonderful pro­gram." 
In the future, El Buen Vecino may also need more student interpreters to assist Hispanic families and help out with a variety of organizations, Hogan said. 
'we need hard-driven peo­
ple who want to experi­ence working in a non-profit (organization) and who want to ­learn and really make a differ­ence.' 
Jim Hogan 

"Right now we are at the end of the first stage, in which we're getting the organization going," said Hogan. 
"We need hard-driven people who want to experience working in a non­profit and who want to learn and really make a difference." 
The second stage involves actually vol­unteering in the various programs that El Buen Vecino offers. 
"If students are interested in partici­pating in these programs, the best thing they could do would be to talk to an organization they're involved with and drum up support there first, and then as a whole organization contact El Buen Vecino," said Hogan. 
Anyone interested in helping with El Buen Vecino should contact Hogan at 634-1148. 
page 12 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 7, 1994 

- 
;7  
I I I  ~  

£:]•' 

You Are Invited to Attend 
"Winning in the Value-Conscious '90s" 
A Procter & Gamble Presentation 
' 

on the Key to ~Creating and Leveraging Consumer Value 
Featuring 

Mike Milligan Senior Vice President 
New Date: Tuesday, February 15 
5:30p.m. 

Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
Rescheduled from january 20, due to inclement weather. We apologize for any inconvenience. 
Reception Meet P&G managers from: immediately following. • Finance Food and beverages • Sales will be served. • Management Systems Dress is casual. • Product Development Students from • Product Supply all majors welcome. • Brand Management 
JDt-., B
-&Gamble 
~~~ 

Monday, February 7, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Morgan leads women's hoop over Loyola 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 
CHICAGO 

The Notre Dame women's basketball team survived a rocky first half to defeat the University of Loyola Ramblers, 81-66, in a Midwestern Collegiate Conference matchup Saturday. 
The win, the third straight for the Irish, enabled Notre Dame to hold on to first place in the MCC. The Irish are now 5-1 in 
Beth Morgan league, with an overall record of 14-5. The loss was the fourth straight for the Ramblers, who fell to 1­6 in the MCC and 5-14 overall. 
The Irish came out aggressive early on in the first half of the game, jumping out to a 7-0 lead just two minutes into the contest. The momentum quickly shifted over to Loyola's side, however, as a 12-4 run enabled the home team to gain a 12-11 edge just under six min­utes into the game. 
The first half saw nine lead changes, as both teams jockeyed for the first half advantage. After taking the lead back from the Irish at 30-28 on senior guard Stacy Kundinger's three pointer, Loyola went on a 7-4 run, giving them a 37-32 halftime lead. 
The Ramblers' up-tempo style trou­bled the Irish in the first half, forcing the perhaps overly aggressive Notre Dame team to commit ten turnovers and nine fouls. Loyola didn't hesitate to capitalize on their chances from the foul line, hitting 11 of 13 free throws in the first half. For the game, the Ramblers went 20-24 from the line, good enough for an .833 percentage. 
Senior center Ginny Hamill, who led the Ramblers with 15 points· and 12 rebounds in the game, made five of those 11 free throws, and had nine points and six rebounds in the first half. Stacy Kundinger. whose three pointer keyed Loyola's 7-4 run at the end of the half, also poured in nine points in the half. 
Much of the first half offense for the Irish came from freshman forward Katryna Gaither. who led the team at the half with eight points, six rebounds, and three blocked shots. Sophomore Carey Poor scored six points in only five minutes of play, while senior point guard Kara Leary contributed three assists and two steals. 
The second half of the game was all Notre Dame -or at least all Beth Morgan. The freshman guard rebound­ed from a 2-9 first half shooting perfor­mance to lead the team with 19 second half points, 10 of which came in the first 5:30. Morgan finished with 23 points to lead all scorers, and her early output in the second half helped key a 13-0 run. 
The Irish, who outscored the Ramblers 49-29 in the second half, went ahead to stay when Carey Poor's layup made the score 55-53 with 11:13 to play. The 11-0 run grew to a 23-4 margin over the next 10 minutes, and Ginny Hamill's layup with 6:01 left in the game broke an eight minute scoring drought for Loyola. 
The Irish had their largest lead of the game when Tootie Jones, who finished the game with 10 points in only 14 min­utes, hit a jumper to put the Irish up 79-58 with just over three minutes to play. The Ramblers went on a 8-0 run to close the gap to within 13 points, but time was not on Loyola's side. 
The Irish have won six of their last seven, including five of their six confer­ence games. 
While Irish coach Muffet McGraw would have liked to have seen a better frrst half game from her team, she was happy with the outcome of the game. 
"I thought we played very well in the second half," McGraw said. "They (Loyola) are a better team than their record indicates. Defensively, we played well in the second half, and we did what we had to do offensively. Letitia Bowen had her spurts offensively and de­fensively, and Morgan was great in the second half." 
Bowen finished the game with 13 points and a team-high seven rebounds and four steals. 
Morgan, who continues to lead the Irish in scoring in just her first year of college basketball, spoke humbly of her second half heroics. 
"I just wanted to come out and pick up my defense, and let the offense take over," said Morgan. "We executed real­ly well on offense, which allowed the team to get the ball to me in favorable situations." 
The next test for the Irish will come on Thursday, February 10, when the Irish travel to Butler in hopes of aveng­ing a 65-62 loss suffered at home on January 22. 

Men's volleyball gets dose of humility 
ByG.R. NELSON 
Sports Writer 
The men's volleyball team received a large dose of humility this Saturday at the University of Michigan Tournament. 
While the team's match record remains at 7-0, they no longer have an unblem­ished season. The Irish played four dif­ferent teams two games each. 
They opened with an impressive 11-6 victory over Michigan St. In that game, outside hitter Matt Strottman led a well­balanced attack. 
"The first game we came out ready to play," said Strottman, "But then we just broke down." 
Michigan St. bounced back in the sec­ond game with an 11-7 victory. The Irish were then defeated by both Illinois St. 8­11, 6-11, and Illinois 8-11, 7-11. The team did eventually defeat Northwestern 11-5, but fell in the second game 9-11. 
Overall, it was a disappointing day for the team. "Besides a few players we did not play well," said captain Brian Cepo­nis, "But maybe we needed this reality check." 
While the weekend results were disap­pointing two key players, Tom Isenbarger and Leo Casas, were unable to play. Also, Ceponis aggravated his knee injury in the second match. Illinois and Northwestern both took advantage of the opening in the middle. 
"We've had our reality check," said Ceponis, "And now we have to get back to work." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Men and Women needed for free haircuts. Call Cosima's 277-1875 TurtleCrk 2BR Twnhse avail. for
NOTICES 
94·95 Cristenx1912 

Campus newspaper carrier/manag-USED TEXTBOOKS er needed immediately for St. Pandora's Bks NO ave & Howard ' Mary's campus, call City News 233-2342 /J 0-6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun Service Inc., 232-3205. 
FREE MAID SERVICE '94·95 

Home delivery newspaper carriers Big 6 bedrm.,great area, B.B. & Bands I Musicians-Free S-track needed for morning delivery, car sand V-ball courts. 234-3831 or recording (1 song/group) through required. Call City News Service 273-0482 
Sat. 2112. Most recording done Inc., 232-3205. where you practice. After 2112, rate is $10/hr. Call Tim, 273-6142. ILOST & FOUND I SENIOR needs extra GRADUA-TICKETS 
TION tickets. Will pay CASH. Call Dave @ 273-3008 TRADE: 6 block super Garth tix for Sun for 6 on Sat-any combo; HELP-
Need ride from Washington DC out of town friends can't go Sun;call Attention partygoers at 628 Grace: back to NO Monday after Easter. and deal-have 16 totaltix 273-6094 please help me find my dark navy/ Will pay. Colleen x4704 
......................................

black J.Crew down coat w/ bright orange lining (size S) w/ gloves Help! 4 desperate girts need I have an extra ticket to Garth!! and my life in pockets. I'M ride to Long Island or NYC for Call Sean at x31 02 and give best FREEZING! Lesleyx4867 Spring Break -will pay gas and offer!
.....................................

tolls. Call x4881 
If found, please call Katie at x2550. Cat x2530 
Has anyone seen my necklace somewhere under all this snow? Gold chain with three gold letters A­R-1 , has great sentimental value. Will give reward and be eternally grateful to finder. Please call Ari @ 259-0219 w/ any info. 
Lost: gold chain with two lockets Thurs. aftemoon-213-near b-ball courts in ACC next to ice rink. Great personal value. If found, please call Sanmit at 1684 
WANTED 
AA CRUISE &TRAVEL EMPLOY­MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 KEY WEST-KEY WEST Spring Break Airline Ticket FOR SALE. From South Bend to Key West, leaving Thursday, March 3 and returning on Friday, March 11. This ticket was purchased during an airfare war and I'm selling it for what I paid for it, which is cheaper than anything you can find available now!!II Call Staph at 273-6548. 
j FOR RENT I PERSONAL
I

Junior Parents Weekend -1 room, 2 nights Double Best Inns $160 ADOPTION: Loving, financially 314-227-6156 secure couple longs for a newborn 
to join our family. Please call Nancy 

FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, and Jerry 1-800-272-5810. ****SPRING BREAK '94**** KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, CAMPUS. 272-0615 Help! hitchhiking is dangerous and Florida & Padre! 11 0% Lowest Price Mud needs a ride to Dayton for Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and JPW (2-18,19,20) call her at x2574 your trip is FREEl TAKE A BREAK FURNISHED 8 BEDROOM HOME orx2575. STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-7283. GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH 
OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR SUPPORT GROUP FOR RAPE 
Need one extra JPW ticket for all 2773097 SURVIVORS Open to Notre Dame 
events DESPERATELYIIIIIIII &St Mary's Students; HELD ON 
Will pay $$$$$$. Call Kelly at x3506 CAMPUS; FREE; CONFIDENTIAL 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY-Sponsored by Sex Offense 
Need a TYPIST? FasVEfficient APPROVED HOMES-JPW, GRAD., Services 234-0061 ext. 1308 
X4097 etc. •219-291-7153• 
Still seats left on best CANCUN 

SKI RESORT JOBS. Up to $2000+ Spr. Brk! Will pair up grps. Call232­in salary &benefits. Ski/Snowboard 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES 71091 instructors, lift operators, wait stall, SECURITY SYSTEM chalet staff + other positions (includ-ALL APPLIANCES Allison­ing summer). Over 15,000 open-1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS Will you be my SYR date? ings. For more information call: 232 2595 -The guy sitting across from (206)634-0469 ext. V5584 you at lunch. 
.....................................

SPRING BREAK! Spring Break Bahamas Party Student Holidays, the nation's Cruise! 6 Days $279! Trip Includes leader in Spring Break vacations Cruise & Room, 12 Meals & 6 Free So did you get the gist of the puz­offering the ultimate trip to Parties! Hurry! This will sell out! zle/ Senior Bar Ads?? CANCUN, MEXICO! 1-800·678-6386 The #1 Student Spring Break If you want GREAT specials figure Destination from $399 Spring Break! Cancun &Jamaica! them out and uncover the best kept Package includes hotel, flight Fly out of Chicago and spend 8 secret in townlllll and parties! Organize a small days on the beach! We have the group and travel for FREEl best trips &prices! Includes air & Deals! Deals! Deals! Deals! 
CALL RICHI1-800-360-TRIP hotel & parties from $3991 1·800-.....................................• 
678-6386 

SNAP-A-SCAM. Want a picture of to girt in Knott 237: 
that someone special without Spring Break! Panama City! 8 days 
revealing your identity? We'll get it oceanview room with kitchen $1191 I not steal phone! 
for you! Sign up Tues., Wed., and Walk to best bars! Includes free dis-I find outside window with many 
Thurs. at NOH and SOH during din-count card -save $50 on cover beer cans. 
ner hours. $2.00/scam. Proceeds charges! 1-800-678-6386 I angry cuz you not recycle 
go to the Mara Fox Scholarship HULK SMASH PHONE!! I 
Fund. Hulk keep bell -like pretty ringing noise but I exchange for new 
MIKE AND BOB­WHERE ARE YOU? 
Oops, It's a mistake-you're 11th, not 3rd, and you CAN'T go to Silver Flight. Send the trophy C.O.D. Wipe up your drool, he's moving up in the world. Are we synergistically there yet? We don't need to be naked to be a team. Dave, how's your direct? I think he can't work with you because he's attracted to you. Yeah, but who got the wake up call? DANGER MONO GIRL! Which Red Roof Inn do you want? Just pull a UEY! I never ... Dave-that's another shot! EYE of the TIGER What would Mock Trial be without scandals? 
We're still the best! TEAM459 

Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
4-year-old, loving Mom and Dad in Washington, D.C. area wish to adopt infant brother or sister. Close extended family in area. Let's help each other. Med/legal paid. Please call Jessica or Bob 
1-800-864-8385. 

•.......BEAT THE RUSH**•••••• VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching, and if you want to write a classified to that special someone, you can type your ad now. Your message will appear in the special Valentine's Observer on 
Feb. 14. We are located on the 3rd floor of Lafortune. 
.................................... 
SPRING BREAK! S. PADRE ISLAND Beachfront -where it is all 
pair purple shorts if you want. please contact David Banner 
KATHIE YOUNG just gets better hair every day. 

Lost: Red women's wallet at  Help! need ride to Worcester MA  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 1 JPW  
Campus View on Fri. 1/28. Keep  or nearby for Spring Break. I drive  TICKET TO ALL OR SOME  
the money, but I need the rest of it.  stick, will $, leave whenever  EVENTS! CALL MEGAN 4-2630  

Team 306: Memories of Toledo Yes, yes I'm getting something!Have I shown you my monkey? If a guy asks you to touch his rnon­key, don't! Hope that maid enjoyed our bottle of Peach Schnapps! Barter, no really, our floor is your floor! Official PDA hook-up weekend! Gretchen spews-Kim hopes to not get mistaken for the trash can! Mouth rape in room 3141 Suck and blow-the game smokers excel at! Amy, want a few more bottles? Free hickeys-room 313 The Roof! Baa, Baa, Baaing around town! 

...and when I asked Ritchie what happened to the Buffalo Bills, the Dallas Cowboys, and the whole Georgia dome -all he could do was smile!  all 213 Bedroom Condo. Parties, contests, disco on the beach. OWNER DISCOUNT. Also Marco Island, Florida near Keys 1BR. Boats, pool, jacuzzi, HAPPY HOUR, $650 Week -OWNER DISCOUNT 813-642-5483  Sweet Denise hits b-status after a weekend with us! "I never!" The never ending game of A­hole!Horan, it's not whether you win or lose, it's how you play the game. All's fair in lust and war!  
*******••••••••*** * ••*** * * *****••••••• FOUR DAYS UNTIL GARTH!Ill  What are you doing for Spring Break???? Try out the .... APPALLACHIA SEMINAR!  No, really, American Pie one more time... It was definitely a weekend to remember! We know who had the most fun! Go Pirates!!  •.  
But, What Will Happen "If Tomorrow Never Comes?" ...................................... SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR  Slots are still available -inquiry at the Center for Social Concerns. Jim Hogan... Where's that Universal Church  We prepare you for a life of reflec­lion mediated by the sophisticated use of language. We do this through small classes, fine advising, close collaboration with faculty. Look into a Classics Major.  
LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786­8373  Key?  B. K.: Is your Crack clean??  


The Observer • BASKETBALL Monday, February 7, 1994 
Williams gets best of O'Bannon 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
Monty Williams was scream­ing. 
With 30 seconds remaining in Notre Dame's 79-63 upset win over the Bruins, the senior for­ward grabbed the rebound off of a UCLA miss, dribbled the length of the court, and threw home the final two of his game­high 28 points. 
Williams then stood on the baseline, his hands in the air, screaming at the Irish student section. 
He celebrated his dunk and the finest performance of the season for the Irish. And possi­bly the most satisfying win in William's career. 
"A friend of mine in California called and told me they thought it was an easy win (for UCLA), like a bye," said Williams. 
It should have been an easy win for the Bruins but Williams' performance proved otherwise. 
In the first half he led the Irish with 16, scoring six of 

Notre Dame's final ten points in the half to build a 36-28 lead. 
His play screamed for itself in the second half. His two free throws with five minutes gone pushed the Irish lead to 15. When UCLA clawed back within nine midway through the half, Williams hit a gliding one-ban­der to push the lead back to double-digits. 
He also controlled the glass on a usually strong-rebounding Bruin squad. He finished with a game-high nine rebounds and also added six assists. 
"Monty Williams gives them a chance to win on any night," said UCLA coach Jim Harrick. "He's a great athlete." 
Much had been made of the Williams-Ed O'Bannon matchup coming into the game, but the UCLA All-American paled in comparison. He finished with nine rebounds but only 14 points. Defensively he stayed away from Williams in the sec­ond half, guarding Irish walk­on Pete Miller during one stretch. 
"In the first half I don't think his guys were giving him much help on me," said Williams. "It was also hard because the crowd was on him." 
O'Bannon and Williams played together at the Team USA tryouts this summer. If O'Bannon wasn't impressed with him then, Saturday's per­formance surely left a lasting impression. 
In the locker room after the game a despondent O'Bannon answered a few questions about the game but more about Williams. 
"He's a great player. He got open a lot and made the easy shots," said the 6-8 forward. "He's a great athlete and he took it to the hole all day. 
"Nothing he or Notre Dam'e did surprised us. They just kept it up the whole game." 
For most of the game the two forwards were exchanging glances and words, but not at the end. 
At the end O'Bannon was quiet. Williams was screaming. 
point guard Tyus Edney, who that it might be slipping away. who left with big heads hang­led the Bruins with 17. I never really felt comfortable ing.
UCLA 
They shot a woeful 20-for-63 until about the last minute." "I told them 'We have to from the field, including 0-for-In that last minute, Williams, stand tall and be proud,'"continued from page 20 
16 from 3-point range. Leading Justice and Kurowski-the Harrick said. "'As long as you scorer Ed O'Bannon had just 14 most noticable in a flock of play this game, you're going to
took advantage of the sluggish 
points on 6-for-18 shooting and heroes-each scored one last have days like this."' 
Bruins. 
his brother Charles played just basket to put their signatures Notre Dame has had plenty of 
A Williams dunk ofT a pretty 
pass from freshman Admore 14 minutes due to a sprained on the victory. days like that. wrist. "They were keying more on "We needed this one,"
White tied the game at 15 and 
That offensive absence was Monty and Ryan and it was my MacLeod said. "Badly." 

Notre Dame trailed for just 16 seconds the rest of the way. clear in the second half, when opportunity to fill in," Kurowski UCLA (63): C. O'Bannon 0-1 0-0 0, E. UCLA couldn't put much of a said. "I think I took advantage O'Bannon 6-18 2-2 14, Zidek 2-5 2-2 6, Edney 5­
Notre Dame even had 13 7-8 17, Tarver 4-10 4-5 12, Dempsey Q-4 o-o 0,
dent in Notre Dame's expand­of that." Bums 1-6 2-2 4, Dollar 2-3 6-8 10, Nwankwo o-1 O­
chances to break the game 
open, but some minor Bruin ing lead. Saturday's game was all ~~t~7~1.Q-O 0, Myers 0-1 o-o 0. TOTALS: NOTRE DAME (79): Williams 10-14 8-10 28,
"We were fortunate to catch about taking advantage of

bursts kept the game from get­Taylor 2-3 2-4 6, Joe Ross 1-2 1-2 3, Hoover o-5 2­
UCLA on a night when they did­opportunities. It was an oppor­2 2, Justice 4-7 o-1 9, Kurowski 6-8 6-8 19, While
ting out of hand. 
2-4 0-0 4, Miller 1-2 0-0 3, Hughes 1-1 1-4 3,
But UCLA was never closer n't shoot well," MacLeod said. tunity to erase the memories of Cozen o-o 0-0 0, Jon Ross 1-3 o-0 2. TOTALS: 28­"We were razor-sharp from the the bad times that now seem 
49 20-31 79.that seven points in the second Halftime: ND 36, UCLA 28. 3-poinl goals: UCLA
field and our defense was really far away. Q-16 (C. O'Bannon o-1, E. O'Bannon 0-4, Edney o-
half, thanks to Keith Kurowski, 
4. Tarver o-1, Dempsey Q-3, Burns o-2. Boyle 0-1), 
who scored 15 of his career­effective at times and that was It was an opportunity to prove NO 3-9 (Justice 1-2, Kurowski 1-2. Miller 1-1, 
essential against such a formi­that they are capable of playing Hoover Q-3, Williams Q-1). Total louts (fouled out): 
high 19 points in the final 20 UCLA 24 (Dempsey). NO 33 (none). Rebounds:
dable offensive group." with college basketball's best. UCLA 39 (E. O'Bannon 9), Nb 33 (Williams 9). 
minutes. 
Assists: UCLA 7 (Edney 2, Dollar 2), NO 21
"When somebody has a The lead grew to 15 after And it was an opportunity to (Williams 6). Turnovers: UCLA 20 (Zidek 7), NO 20 Lamarr Justice found Marcus deflate the Bragging Bruins, (WMe5). Attendance: 11.418. 
career night against you, what 

can you do?" Harrick won­Hughes for a dunk, but Notre Dame couldn't relax. UCLA has
dered. "We warned our guys too much firepower, and the
about that and that's what hap­Irish have seen big leads vanish 
pened." Nobody in baby blue could too many times. 
"They went on a huge runequal Kurowski or Williams. 

and we flattened out," MacLeod Each UCLA player scored be­said. "I was afraid at that pointlow his average except junior 
Chinese-American 
:f:i~~~~\;i¥, 
Restaurant & ij?~·.,...•fciilj~cktail Lounge ·:1t~\~r;: Autnent•c Szechuan. ~·n":P rvtat\dann & Hunan Cutsme %"'~ 
I 


NEW YEAR BUFFE·r Februar)~ 9 & w.~~1~~~n~~ ~~1l 
ALL YOU CAN EAT 5 • 9 p.m. ~~ Includes Soup. Appet1zer. 8 Entrees 1nd Dessert (Other menu 1tems also a•·aJ/able' ~~]::,~ 130 Dixie WayS., South Band (ne•tto Randall's lnnl 272-7376 ![1,-r.:.,~~~ 
~·~)----------------_...urt~. ")~~~ in the Hesburgh Library 
~· ··~~<:)

-


ATTENTION: CINCINNATI AREA ST_UDENTS 
The 1994 Xavier summer sessions bulletin of classes & workshops Is now available. Undergraduate &graduate level courses offered in the areas of arts and sciences, business, education, professional studies and social sciences. Session dates: May 16 -June 23 &July 5-August 11 CALL OR WRITE: 
X\VIEK 
I 
Summer Sessions UNIVERSITY 
3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207-3120 513/745-4381 
Xav~r Urtiwrsity is an actukmic cDfM'IWiily commilted to eqwal opport1111ity for aU persoM regardless ofage, sex, race, religion, handicap, or natiOMl origin. 
at pm, reception to follow featured in the 1994 festival: 
•
Michael Harper (Sun. 2/13) 

•
June Jordan (Mon. 2/14) 

•
Alison Lurie* (Tues. 2/15) 

•Charles 
Johnson (Wed. 2/16) 

•
Joy Harjo (Thurs. 2/17) 


*Frank Deford has been rescheduled for 4/13/94 
page 15 
Georgia 
continued from page 20 

looked like the Irish might let another one slip away. But Georgia couldn't finish the comeback it started. "Down the stretch we did what we had to do to get 
back into the game," Georgia coach Hugh Durham said. "We did the one thing we really had to do (five-second call) and then to not execute was really disappointing." 
Notre Dame reversed a five-point halftime lead and took control of the game in the second half, leading by as much as 11. 
"It was great to see our kids wipe out a five-point lead and take over," MacLeod said. That has been the difference for the Irish lately. 
Getting leads is one thing, holding them is another. Notre Dame is finally learning how to do both. They did it Sunday against a typically balanced 
Georgia attack. Bernard Davis led the Bulldogs with 23 points, Dathon Brown contributed 18 and Carlos Strong added 12. 
But Notre Dame had four players in double figures, in­cluding Joe Ross' 10 points, the first double-figure game of his career. 
"They were warriors today," MacLeod said. It was definitely a battle for the Irish, and the warriors wouldn't let the dwell on Saturday's win over UCLA. 
"It's a credit to them that they came off a real emotion­al win over UCLA and played the way they did," Durham said. 
NOTRE DAME (88): Williams 1Q-17 4·5 24, Taylor 4·8 4·5 13, Joe Ross 4-4 2·3 tO. Hoover 8·t4 to-to 32, Justice t-3 2·2 4, Whne t-3 o-o 2, Kurowski t-4 o-o 2, Miller o-t o-o 0, Hughes 0-1 o-o 0, Cozen o-o o-o 0, Jon Ross o-t t-2 t. TOTALS: 29-56 23-27 88. 
GEORGIA (85): Jones 1-4 2·2 4, Strong 5-tO 2·3 12, Claxton 3-7 o-o 6, Davis 7-tt 3-4 23, Anderson 2· 7 o-o 5, Jackson 3-9 3-3 9, Wilson 3-4 o-o 8, Robinson o-1 o-o 0, Brown 5­13 6-11 18, Bell 0..() o-o 0. TOTALS: 29-66 16-23 85. 
Halftime: Georgia 32, Noire Dame 27. 3-Point goals: Notre Dame 7-t7 (Hoover 6·t2, Taylor 1-t, Kurowski 0-1, Miller Q-t), Georgia tt-22 (Davis 6-10, Wilson 2·3, Brown 2·3, Anderson t-2, Robinson o-t, Jackson 0·3). Total fouls (fouled out): Notre Dame t9 (none), Georgia 23 (none). Rebounds: Notre Dame 33 (Williams 10), Georgia 4t (Strong 8). Assists: Notre Dame 20 (Williams, Justice 6), Georgia t6 (Davis, Anderson 6). Attendance: 7,648. 
Kelly 
continued from page 20 
1980. 

It was Paxson who provided the link to the past Saturday, calling point guard Lamarr Justice to congrat­ulate him on his performance. A small gesture, but one that indicates what this rivalry means to the people who helped build it. 
It's implications are not as great anymore, with UCLA more concerned about its conference schedule and Notre Dame struggling to keep its head above water. 
But it still matters to the people who play the game. Times have changed in college basketball, but Notre Dame-UCLA remains. 
Saturday's game didn't mean anything to any confer­ence. It probably won't dent UCLA's NCAA Tournament seed, nor will it drastically improve Notre Dame's chances for post season play. 
But it mattered. Notre Dame-UCLA will always mat­ter. 
The players may not have realized it, but they woke up the ghosts and wrote their own chapter in this history of this series. 
Now if somebody would just open the book .. 
NJf ~ SFIING lliEt« Bill/
Senior Formal News SPRING 


Senior Fonnal Tickets are on Sale 
TODAY from 6-9 p.m. at 
Thodore's in LaFortune. 
Bids for the dance are $65°0 
• 

Also, don't miss the chance to buy tickets for Second City ($12°0 per person) and Chanpagne glasses ($5°0 each). 
*Don 'tforget your bidforms.* 
SENIOR FORMAL 
TUXEDO RENTALS FROM LOUIE'S TUX SHOP 
PRICES: 
~k Classic ................................................... $46.95 + TAX Designer Tuxedos ............................................ $59.95 +TAX Shoes ...............................................................$1 0.00 + TAX 
PAYMENT: Partial or full payment may be made. (A $15.00 minimum deposit is required at the time of fitting.) We accept cash, VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, and Personal Checks. 
WHEN: February 7'h & 8'h, 1994. (6:00p.m.-9:00p.m.) 
WHERE: LaFortune Center, Theodore's on Monday & Tuesday. 

IIIIElK 
COMPLETE FIVE & SEVEN NIGHT TRIPS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH STEAMBOAT 
+!·G'Hif¥ 
VAIL/BEAVER CREEK ORLANDO/DISNEY WORLD MUSTANG ISLAND HILTON HEAD ISLAND BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 

•l'fiii'EfiSGIIDU'I:IOIIIGOIIOfSTIIIATIOII/III!UOAf!S/UMGll!OfSTIIl. 
FOR ADDITJONAL NORMATION & IIESBIVATIONS 
It·~1!0~ ~U_N~I!~S_!j
~~~~ 


page 16 . The Observer • SPORTS 
Belles hoop drops fourth straight 

By KIMBERLY BERO 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team suffered their fourth straight loss Saturday in Angela Athletic Facility, losing to Car­roll College 82-64. 
The Belles, now 4-11 on the year, led for the majority of the first half, but the Pioneers jumped ahead in the closing minutes to lead the Belles 35­43 at half time. 
Saint Mary's senior Ann Mulcahy kept the Belles in the 
Lake Forest too strong for Saint Mary's swimmers 
By MARY GOOD 
Saine Mary's Spores Editor 
The Saint Mary's swim team lost 62-47 to Lake Forest Col­lege but beat the Illinois Insti­tute of Technology 75-33 in a double dual meet on Saturday which marked their last regular season meet. 
ITT was no problem for the 

Belles, but Lake Forest proved 
to be a much more even match 
up. 
"In the events we won we 

generally placed fourth and 
third," Belles coach Janson 
said. "In events Lake Forest 
won we placed second and 
third. They just won a couple 
more than we did." 
The Belles faced a new chal­

lenge Saturday as they com­
peted in a meter pool rather 
than the yard pool they are 
used to. 
"In some events the swim­

mers could end up swimming a 
whole length further than they 
are used to," Janson said. 
The entire team swam well 

although not as well as last Sat­
urday against the University of 
Chicago. 
"Meets like the University of 

Chicago are hard to duplicate 
on a regular basis," Janson 
said. 
The divers that traveled to 

Lake Forest Saturday per­
formed especially well. 
Freshman Megan McHugh 
game by hitting four three point shots in the first half. 
"Despite a close game in the first half, our passing was ter­rible. It's been a long time since we've looked that bad," said Coach Marvin Wood. 
The Belles were able to re­gain their composure after the half as freshman Sarah Koppe­rud hit a three point shot to bring the Belles within five points. 
However, the Pioneers came back strong, bulding the lead to 51-42. 
did 24 points better on the one meter board than in any other meet this season. Freshman Angie Mills did nine points bet­ter than any-·of her previous performances. 
"The divers have had an op­portunity to compete more in the past few weeks, and cou­pled with their performance in practice they have made signif­icant improvement this sea­son," Janson said. 
Freshman swimmer Shannon Kelleher also had her best meet of the season. 
"In the 8000 meter freestyle, Shannon did not swim her fastest, but as far as stroke and turns go it was one of her bet­ter swims," Janson said. "The 400 meter was probably her best swim of the year. She paced the race well and swam the way I've been trying to get her to all year." 
The team is now looking to the next week and a half o their taper where they will be resting up for the Liberal Arts Invitational. 
"We will be resting in the hopes that our energy is at a peak level when the Liberal Arts Invitational starts, "Janson said. "There we will be looking to make improvement upon our work this year and also im­prove on how we did last year. That has pretty much been the theme of the season-consis­tency and improvement." 

REAL ESTATE ANALYST PROGRAM 
Before You Go Back For Your MBA, Give Yourself A Head Start 
If you plan on taking some time before pursuing your MBA, take a look at this opportunity from The Prudential. 
This is a challenging 2-year internship program where highly motivated BAs and BSs (who are planning to apply to top business schools in 1996) with at least a B+ or better undergraduate GPA and a strong mathematical aptitude, gain valuable hands-on real estate investment experience. An intensive training program will help prepare you for a variety of real estate modeling and financial evaluation assignments. 
As one of the nation's largest real estate investors, we can offer you an attractive starting salary and outstanding com­prehensive benefits along with the opportunity to work with top investment professionals. 
To apply, send your resume and a copy of your college transcript by February 22, 1994 to: Berni Mayer, The Prudential Realty Group, Prudential Plaza, 130 East Randolph, Suite 1200, Chicago, IL 60601-6217. An equal opportunity employer. 
The Prudential Realty Group $ Move Up To The Rocke 
The Pioneers continued to dominate the game, with sophomore Deana 
Demuri leading the attack. Demuri, who is ranked na­tionally in both shooting and scoring percentages, scored 13 points and added three assists. 
The Belles bounced back by the middle of the second half, cutting the Carroll lead to two. 
The Pioneerse went on a rally, increasing the lead to 11 in the final three minutes of the game. This run was due mainly to shooting from the field and a stifling defense that dominated the Belles. 
The Belles were led by senior Anne Mulcahy, who poured in 26 points, including six three­point shots. 
Sophomore Jennie Tauben­heim, a stalwart forward for the Belles, finished the game with 25 points and 11 rebounds. 
"This game was a grave diss­

The ObseiVer/Sean Farnan
appointment for us. It was our 

Forward Lori Gaddis and the Belles fell to Carroll Saturday. 
worst game since Christmas, and we only succeeded in mak­again this Wednesday when ing Carroll College look good," they host Wood said. Calvin College. 
The Belles will be in action "We've got a lot of work to do," added Wood. "I just hope this isn't an idicator of what's to come in the rest of the sea­son." 
Wednesday 
is the last day to turn in your $10.00 deposit for the 
junior Class Ski Trip to Bittersweet! 
Turn in money to the Junior Class Office. 

~--------------------------.-,®
Thanks for you patience during our "Under the Weather" week of January 14--21. Louisville was "shut down" and our trucks couldn't get to us. So enjoy ... 
1 ... 14" Large Cheese Pizza 

00 
(cuUlitional toppings 95¢) 
Offer Good 
271~1177 
The Most Popular Number Thru on Campus! 4,1J,94 


--~-------~---------------~-~----------------------~-------­
Monday, February 7, 1994 page 17 
Notre Dame misses chance against Miami 

By TIM SHERMAN Sporn Writer 
Working hard and playing good hockey for two periods may be enough for some of the top teams in the CCHA. 
Right now, Notre Dame is not there yet. 
In both games this weekend against the visiting Redskins of Miami (OH). the Irish allowed an early lead. The Irish fought back with intensity, but it was not enough. 
Friday's tilt saw the Irish drop a heartbreaking 3-2 deci­sion in the final minute, while Saturday's effort resulted in a 6-5 setback. The Irish dropped to 8-17-4, 6-13-4 in the CCHA. 
"We had a chance to start to form a winning habit," said defenseman Bryan Welch. "Instead we just perpetuated the losing habit, which is some­thing we're going to have to break if we're going to do well in the (CCHA) playoffs." 
Friday's contest was espe­cially painful. It looked as if Notre Dame's efforts were go­ing to pay off, as they tied the game with under three minutes remaining on a Terry Lorenz goal. 
But it was not meant to be, as MU's Rene Vonlanthen scored on a deflected shot with only 30 seconds to play. 
The Irish were sloppy and in­efficient in giving up two early goals. Miami, although slug­gish in their own right, took advantage. 
Kevyn Adams, an NHL first­round draft choice, got the scoring started at the 13:49 mark of the first period. 
Adams also figured in the sec­ond score of the night. He hit Marc Boxer with a nice feed, who beat Irish goaltender Greg Louder to give Miami a 2-0 lead. 
Davide dalGrande got the Irish on the board, scoring his first goal of the season on a power play to slice the lead in half at the 15:17 point of the second period. 
After a 20 minutes of score­less· skating, Lorenz finally knotted the game at two. 
But it was Miami who got the break and the game-winning goal. 
In the second game, Miami jumped out to an early 3-0 lead and later extended it to 4-0. Once again, the Irish refused to quit, scoring the game's final three goals, but the hole was too deep for Notre Dame. 
"We buried ourselves," said Coach Ric Schafer. "We looked like we were still out shopping with mom (it being hockey par­ents weekend)." 
The burial was quick, too. After 8:06 of skating, the Irish were down 3-0. 
Andrew Miller got the run started for Miami. Adams chipped in with a conversion of a one-on-one chance against Louder. Next, blueliner Dan Daiakawa had his turn from up top. 
Miami extended the lead to 5­1 before the Irish got the night­ly wake-up call. 
Cary Nemeth started the comeback at the 6:00 mark of the second with his first goal. After Andrew Backen upped the lead to 6-2, Matt Osiecki lit the lamp with a rocket from between the circles. 
The third period was all Irish. 
"In the second half of the game, Notre Dame did every­thing correct," said Miami coach George Gwozdocky. "To their credit, they fought back." 
Jamie Ling notched his sec­ond goal of the night on a power play with 15:41 to play. 
"Jamie Ling was an all­around force," noted Gwoz­docky. "It wasn't just scoring. He was key on faceoffs and he set up their offense." 
Nemeth cut the lead to just one with a shorthanded effort. After taking a loose puck at the 


Name the Norbut Contest 
Call The Observer sports desk at 631-4543 with your suggestions 
Madame Bovary Tuesday 9:00 Cushing Jl; 
sn:DE:'-o"T C~10~ BOA,IW 

Savings Worth StuGying 
Any student can get a great hairo..tt from licensed, professional stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment. Stop in at our ronvenient mall location. At Maste!Cuts we trim prices, not quality. We amy:~ Paul Mitdtell, Biolage, Nexxm, VaVoom cmd KMS. 
redline, he skated in and beat Miami netminder Kevin De­schambeault to make it 6-5. 
With ten minutes left, it looked like the Irish would manage to tie it. They had their chance but could not con­vert. Although they were out­skated 13-3, the Redskins played well enough in the final two minutes to prevent the Irish from pulling their goalie until just 30 seconds remained. Notre Dame ended with a flur­ry, but that would be all. 
"It was the good, the bad, and the ugly in reverse order," com­mented Schafer. "We have to be proud of our efforts, but it was too little, too late. We'd like to get to the point where we don't have to come back like that." 
The Irish lost sophomore for­ward Jamie Morshead, who fractured his leg in Saturday's game. He will miss the balance of the season. 



----------~----------------~­
'i-\01)1 

Monday, February 7, 1994 The Observer • TRACK page 18 
.. 
Meyo Invitational ruled a success by Irish, participants 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sports Writer 
At the same time the Notre Dame basketball team was playing one of its best games of the season at the Joyce Center against UClA, 
the • Irish~:&_··-~,~·_._'. 
mens and~. women's track and field team were compet-Joe Piane ing in one of its biggest meets of the season, the prestigious Meyo Invitational. 
The nationally acclaimed meet attracted more than 20 teams and various invited indi­vidual talents to Loftus Center for a Saturday afternoon of indoor track and field. 
"I was real pleased with the meet," said Irish head coach and meet director Joe Piane. "There were a lot of outstand­ing events." 
Other coaches were just as impressed with the quality of the event. "From the ground up, the facilities, officials, con­duct and quality of the competi­tion, this is one of the best meets in the country," com­mented Tulane head coach Danny Thiel. "This is a well-kept secret in college track and field, because you can get it done here. There is a competi­tive atmosphere along with friendly people. 
"Notre Dame has an aura about it for the people on the outside. The incentive was there for our kids to perform and we did well." 
The highlight of the meet was the annual Meyo Mile. Three athletes ran sub-4 minute miles. The event featured a pair of University of Michigan world class milers, freshman Kevin Sullivan and sophomore Scott McDonald. 
Sullivan led the way with a time of 3:58.00. Second place fmisher Dave Wittman of Nike Texas ran 3:59.28, fol­lowed by McDonald at 3:59.40. 
The two Michigan stars hail from Canada, and both ran their personal best times. They were equally ·impressed with the quality of competition dur­ing the meet. 
"It was excellent competi­tion," explained McDonald. "They stacked the mile with some older guys and the whole field pushed us." 
"It's a step below internation­al competition, but there are so many guys running fast this year that NCAA's will be a figl"\t to the end," echoed Sullivan. 

The Bengal Bouts are coming... Check The Observer for full coverage 
NEW DAIRY QUEEN BRAZIER 
18173 St. Rd. 23 Near Martin•s Shopping Plaza 
Part-time positions available 
Call 271-1102 
Other outstanding events for the Irish men included the 3,000 meters. high jump. 800, the pole vault and men's sprints. Overall, ten different Notre Dame athletes qualified for the Intercollegiate Association of Amateur Athletes of America (IC4A) meet in March. 
Notre Dame dominated the 3,000 by placing four runners in the top six. Senior captain Mike McWilliams led the way with a qualifying time of 8:21. Juniors Nate Ruder and J.R. Melora finished second and fourth respectively to qualify for the IC4A's. Freshman Matt Altoff placed a respectable sixth. 
In the high jump, senior Todd Herman placed third with a jump of seven and one-half, that qualified him for the IC4A's for the fourth straight year. Junior Brian Headrick qualified by jumping six-nine. 

"I wasn't real pleased with my jumps," commented Herman. "No one jumped very well. I need to rest my knee and hopefully things will improve." 
The pole vault featured Irish qualifiers Dan Gerrity and Dan Grenough. Gerrity, a freshman placed eighth, while Grenough fmished tenth. 
The main highlights for the Irish came in the sprints. Freshman football standout Randy Kinder set a Meyo Track and school record in the 200 
(21. 59) and qualified for the IC4A's in that event along with the 55 meters. 
Other qualifiers for Notre Dame included freshman Anthony Swiney in the 55m (6.48), and junior Joe Royer in the 800 (1 :52.88). 
"I am real pleased with the way our guys ran," said Piane. "We competed very well and I saw a lot of good things." 
"I've always been impressed with Joe's programs," comple­mented Thiel. "His team is very strong. They have people every­where, from the distance events to the sprints, through the jumpers. It's one of the most well-rounded track programs in the country." 
On the women's side, the meet was just as successful. The 55m hurdles and 400 were Notre Dame's best events. 
Irish junior Lisa Junek set a· school record in the hurdles with a time of 7. 96 seconds. Classmate Monica Cox finished fifth in a time of 8.41. 
Sophomore Erica Peterson finished third in the 400 with a time of 56.28. 
"There were a lot of good performances," commented Piane. "We had no real major surprises. We can always do better." 

All this week in the Dining Halls 
Tell that special someone how much you care for only $1 00 
• 
Flowers will be delivered on Feb 13. 
All proceeds benefit the Tara Deutsch Scholarship fund. 
YOU CAN SEND YOUR 
"SPECIAL SOMEONE" 
A VALENTINE MESSAGE ON VALENTINES DAY FOR $20.00 
The ad would be this size and must be submitted IYy 1:00 p.m. on Thursday, Feb. 10 to the advertising department for The Observer (3rdfloor LaFortune) 
For further information, call631 
21st Annual Summer Program 
ND-SMC 
Students 
LONDON  ROME  
May 18 -June 17  June 12 -July 11  
Travel in Ireland,  Travel in France,  
Scotland and France  Germany, and  
Switzerland  

Courses offered in BIOLOGY, BUSINESS & ECONOMICS, HISTORY, ITALIAN, LITERATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, SOCIOLOGY 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING-February 8 
6:30 pm Carroll Hall • Free Pizza • Past students and faculty participants will be present. 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
Deloitte& 

Management
Touche 

Consulting 
MBA Recruiting Presentation 
Representatives from Deloitte & Touche's Detroit Management Consulting Office will be on campus to discuss career opportunities in consulting. All interested students are encouraged to attend. 
Who: First & Second Year MBA's 
When: Monday-February 7th @ 7:00 PM 
Where: Morris Inn-NQ Room 
Interviews are scheduled for: Tuesday, Feb. 23rd 
Monday, February 7, 1994 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
-


L·( 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WAITERSON 
~0\l'\.L ~E'-I~R GU A\-ltAD B~ 
l~ING f><RO\Jt-1\), '{OJ Kt--~OW. 

'• 
"Convertible! Convertible!" 
OF INTEREST 


t-\E~ F~ lENDS, llR f_t> OF Loot<o"6 Lo\OE A Foo\.. (>...,. ART 

EP.oE-5? FP.EE 
£ V(IZ-'"\ lil'lf; 
6~ J\.,t<-.. '-\••"­OF A1'1o.oN1oN~. 
l;JEL.L ~Et-1 
1 

IT's liME Fo1z.. .­
/ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Fly like Lindbergh1 Atop 33 Aits in Aries 
5Ciubbed 34 Prepare for an 10 Motes 
Indian attack 14 New York 
37 Raison d'­

Cosmos star 
38 30's actress 15Chou-Grey and others 180klahoma 39 Nighttime noise tribesman 
40Beam 17 Lord Nelson site 
41 Sponsorship 20 Part of an 
42 Feeds a furnace 

electrical switch 43 Belgian river 21 Zeroes 44 Baseball union 
22 Hectored 
boss Donald 23 Sans verve 
45 Like llamas 24 Medicament 48 Sends quickly 27 Winter woe 52 Ships' drop-off 
28 Ottoman official location? 31 The Donald's ex 54 Sea flyer 
• " 1-\E.f'! lJ.;e vr,.._c•LOR 1~ A ('1\'isn<.At. C•RNucoPoA FoP. T~E Sou... " 
• "f-1,,. SPA12.~E Use:. OF LoNE moves 
ONE At.mos,-To IEAP.'S, VoESN'T h?'' 
• ''1fi1s ~AINTIN6 RIC.0 C.He:TS AcR•ss (Yl"\ VE11.'1 E'S'$ E NC.E. " 11
• IT's A.-, THou&H THe CR-EAnve:. ANI>El IJ.lorHIN ~~~~ VomJTE.t:> • 
· · · A~vn 7J.t.w ?Y/ou/1 
DAVE KELLEIT 
fY\'1 bob I ONE CAt.,', f.\ELI' Bu.,-FEEL 11\E TRAW'i!T'l>l2'1 
(omPL<TE
-pR.~voc:.ATION THe "'Poe:.<.E 
\(Yl13£CI~(:.
E,..rcou->S1 Ctw !foE")? 
c:> 
0 
/.. I 
> 

55 Gnawed away 5& Composition closure 57 Crazy bird? 
58 Monopoly payments 
59 Formerly 
DOWN 
1 Goes (for) 2-Beach, Fla. 3Airlineto 
Jerusalem 4 Testimonial 5 It's hummed & 1973 hit by the 
Rolling Stones 7 Covered 8The"E" in 
E.N.T. 9 Prohibit 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 wampum 11 I-70's western terminus 12 Ilk 13 Golf course 18 
electrodes 19 Printer's spacer 
24 Potato pre parer 25 "Re9.uiem for 


··(~n¥·~~!~~~~· 
(Broadway
song) 
27 Lawyer Roy M. and others 

28"Take-at this!" 
29Type 
30 Bridge of­(Euclid 
proposition) 
32Way up? 
33 Blissful state? 
35 Produce 3&Wheezing cause 
41 Birthright seller 42 TV listing 
43 Modern-day 48 Solar disk Sheba 49 Mr. Stravinsky 44 Tops 50 Lawyers' 45 Ex-steelworkers degrees 
chief 51 Install in office 4& Fiery fiddler 47 1962 Bond villain 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 

You Just separated your trash. 
Recycling II you'd You will Is easy, Isn't It? like to know more. lind In fact, send a taking the first It's one of postcard to step toward recycling the easiest ways the Environmental can be as easy you personally Defense Fund-Recycling, in practice can make the world 257 Park Ave. South, as it is a better place. NY, NY, 10010. here on paper. 
R E C Y C L E 
It's the everyday way to save the world. 
ENVIRONMENTALr.P,'I DEFENSE FUND ~I 
DINING HALL 
• 




Too Beautiful for You Madame Bovary Cyrano de Bergerac La Femme Nikita Monday, Feb. 7 Tuesday, Feb. a VVednesday, Feb.9 Thursday, Feb. 1 0 9:00 9:00 9:00 9:00 $3.00 Admission is good for the whole week 
-

All Showings Located at Cushing Auditorium. Reception to follow each film. 
Brought to you by Student Union Board...Crazy Stuff and More! 
-
SPORTS 

page 20 
Notre Dame laughs last in 79-63 upset 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
It will forever be known as the Tavares two-step. 
Tavares Montgomery Williams shuffled to center court when Saturday's 79-63 upset of No. 4 UCLA was secure. 
It was a dance of equal parts relief, revelry and ridicule. 
"It was a moment we haven't had a chance to feel in a long time," said Williams, who scored 28 points, grabbed nine rebounds and dished out six as­sists. "When (UCLA) came out before the game, they were laughing and giggling and mak­ing fun of us. They weren't taking the game seriously." 
Williams took the opportunity to throw some of that laughter back at the Braggin' Bruins, but this game meant more to Notre Dame than bragging rights.
• 
It meant the right to be re­spected. 
Near-misses against Duke and Providence made some waves, but Saturday the Irish fmally made a splash. 
"It's a great victory for Notre Dame," Williams said. "It was on national television and it was a chance for us to show people that the basketball pro­gram is on the rise again." 
Tired from travel and emo­tionally spent from a Thursday night tussle with arch-rival USC, the Bruins weren't exactly at full strength. 
Backup center Rodney Zim­merman, bothered with a nag­ging back injury, didn't even dress because it was a non-con­ference game. 
"We needed another day after an unbelievably emotional game against Southern Cal," UCLA coach Jim Harrick said. "But that's no excuse, you have to come to play everyday." 
After falling behind 7-2, the focused and fresh-legged Irish 
see UCLA I page14 

Irish celebrate with win over Bulldogs 

By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Airplane food has a way of dousing any good celebration. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team was on a plane to Atlanta just hours after defeat­ing UCLA with memories of that game lingering like the turkey log. 
"We wanted to stay home and celebrate," Irish forward Monty Williams said. "But Coach (John) MacLeod let us know that even though you beat a top-ranked team, you can't lose the next one." 

So it was on to Atlanta with rubber legs and plastic peanuts. 
And Notre Dame didn't lose the next one. 
Behind Ryan Hoover's career­high 32 points, the Irish held off a late Georgia rally for an 88-85 win. 
Hoover was 10-for-1 0 from the free throw line, including six in the final 31 seconds, to set a new school record with 40 consecutive free throws made. 
But more importantly Notre Dame won its third game in a row, making clutch plays down the stretch to finding some new offensive assets. 
"We are finally making a surge," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "That's pleasing to see. We have character and character endures. Character can't be chased away, it keeps coming back." 
Williams scored 24 points and grabbed 10 rebounds and Billy Taylor had his best game in two years, scoring 13. 
"We need Billy to come up big," MacLeod said. "And Billy needed it, too." 
Georgia cut Notre Dame's lead to 86-85 with a Ty Wilson 3-pointer with 16.6 seconds re­maining. When Notre Dame couldn't inbound the ball, it 
see GEORGIA I pagel5 
T
hey say that those who don't know his­tory are destined to repeat it. 
If they taught American history the way they teach basketball history at UCLA and Notre Dame, we'd still 
1 be fighting the Civil War. • · Saturday the Bruins and Jason Kelly . 
the Irish proved their igno-Assoctate Sports Edttor ranee of this storied series, adding another upset to the pile. 
It happened 20 years after Notre Dame's most celebrated victory over UCLA, a 71-70 thriller that snapped the Bruins' record 88-game win­ning streak. 
And it was the fifth time in 23 years that a UCLA team ranked in the top five has lost at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame tried to awaken the memories, replaying Dick Enberg's call of the final minutes of the 1974 game. 
But that static cling to the past seemed lost on everyone, particularly Saturday's participants. "(The 197 4 game) could have been 400 years 

ago as far as these guys knew," said Bruins coach Jim Harrick, the latest heir to college bas­ketball's most glorious history. "It meant nothing whatsoever." 
None of the players in Saturday's game were more than two years old when Dwight Clay's shot shook college basketball. 
Their memories of that afternoon are as fuzzy as Clay's afro. 
"We knew a little bit about it and we heard that pre-recorded message (Enberg's broadcast) before the game," this year's hero Monty Williams said. "But the guys that played in that game couldn't help us today." 
Yet Saturday's game stirred memories of those guys and all the guys who have been a part o this series. 
• 
Austin Carr's 46 points that handed the Bruins their only loss in their 1971 national championship season. 

• 
Clay's jump shot that snapped the longest winning streak in college basketball history. 

• 
John Paxson's four free throws in the final five seconds that clinched a Notre Dame win in 


see KELLY I page 15 
-
Inside SPORTS 


Morgan's Magic Mayo Invite 

Slapped 


Coach Muffet McGraw Mike McWilliams and the
-
Jamie Ling and the Notre (right) and the women's Irish fared well in the Dame hockey team drop­
basketball team won
prestigious meet at the ped a pair of games to thanks to a second-halfLoftus complex. 
Miami (OH). 

surge by freshman Beth Morgan
see page 18 see page 17 see page 16 



