

Wednesday, March 2, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 101 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Residents concerned about teachers' strike 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Writer 
The South Bend Community School Corporation Teachers' strike may not have a simple solution, but its complexities are worthy of the attention of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. That was the conclusion of a panel dis­cussion held at the Center for Social Concerns last night. 
The panel, titled the 'South Bend Community Teachers' Strike: Ethical Dilemmas and Choices" was organized by the CSC and the Higgins Center for Labor Research in an effort to explore the many facets to the lengthening dispute between South Bend teachers and their employers. "We hope to pro­mote a healthy discourse," said panel moderator and esc fac­ulty liaison Kathleen Weigert. 

The Observer/Laura Grendahl
As a way of achieving that 

Concerned South Bend parents and residents discuss the school system's recent teachers' strike last night 
goal, the topics of conversation 

in the Center for Social Concerns. Among the issues was the justice of the system's proposed solutions. 
ranged far and wide. The pan­elists, Notre Dame professors 

more than just a tool. He said teachers were almost forced to "Offering new programs instead 
Fr. Pat Sullivan, Charles Craypo 

that the right to strike in this strike by such a low salary of allowing faculty to remain 
and Theresa Ghilarducci; mem­

case is historically essential. "It offer. The corporation can then even with rises in the cost of 
bers of the Higgins Center 

is an important step for labor­blame the teachers for any dis­living is a questionable deci­
engaged in a lively debate with 
management issues. At the turn ruptions because they offered a sion." 
other faculty members, stu­

off the century, many people contract and it was refused," Craypo said that Indiana's 
dents and residents of South 

were dying in the streets over she explained. The strike that collective bargaining law is a 
Bend. Their subjects ranged 

labor-related issues. A protect­was supposed to gain public big part of the problem. The 
from labor relations to student 

ed organized strike is a big step support for the strikers may be law prohibits "public servants," 
welfare. 

forward." turned against them. a category that includes teach­
The right of the teachers to 

The stance of the School The issue of trust was ers from striking. 
strike was widely supported. 

Corporation was questioned as broached as well. Recent deci­"The teacher's union has its 
"This strike is very valid, " 

well. "A one per cent raise is sions by the school board to hands tied," he said. "They
said Patrick Bannon, a local 

not fair," said Off Campus hire 18 new disciplinary psy­must decide whether to disobey
actor and director. "The teach­

senior Ryan Matthys, who has chologists and to begin a Junior the law in standing up for what 
ers deserve something for the 

worked as a substitute during Naval Reserve Officer Training all private sector employees are 
excellent and valuable work 

the strike. "It is an insult to of­Core Program bring the South guaranteed by law." 
they do." 

fer them that." Bend school system's priorities The panel recognized that 
"Catholic social and moral 

Ghilarducci said that the into question. behind the ins and outs of the 
teaching supports the worker's 

Corporation is employing a tac­"What sort of message does labor difficulties, the real vic­
right to strike," said Sullivan. 

tic that worked for the federal this send to teachers?" asked tims of this action are the stu­
"It is a useful tool when all 

government during the 1981 air Professor Kwan Kim of the dents. In his substitute capac­
other recourses have failed." 
traffic controllers strike. "The Kroc Peace Studies Institute. 

Craypo views the strike as see STRIKE/ page 4 
Pangborn wins in Iceberg finals Differences between war 
By COLIN O'NEIL be a power exercised by some prohibitively expensive gene News Writer men over other men with research will aid only a tiny 

and negotiation discussed 
nature as its instrument." percentage of the world popu­

Society must utilize the bless­lation, while cheaper, tradi­By JEREMY DIXON erwise be," said Dowty. 
ings of genetic engineering to In front of a boisterous and tional inoculations save millions News Writer There is an appropriate time 
for each, depending on the sit­

save lives, said Pangborn junior partisan audience -Stanford of lives. Cynthia Poulakidas as her team men filled the right half of the Explaining the appropriate uation. Dowty advises negotia­bested Stanford in the Iceberg Notre Dame Room in LaFortune Stanford aggressively intimi­times for negotiation and en­tion when there are valid 
Debate finals. Student Center as Pangborn dated their opponents during forcement in present interna­claims of justice on both sides, women cheered from its left the debate, a factor which tional relations, government when there is no clear interna­
Poulakidas and her colleague side -the opponents traded weighed in Pangborn's favor, Professor Alan Dowty spoke tional consensus, and/or when Lisa Fortier, who won the barbs on genetic engineering said first year law student yesterday about the logic used both parties stand to gain. judges' acclaim as best speaker for the sake of aesthetics and at Ferah Husain. in both situations, and the role This is the case with Bosnia, 
of the United States in these Dowty said. There is a clear
last night, argued in favor of one point tiptoed around the efforts. violation, but no clear consen­employing gene treatment to abortion debate. Husain joined government 
eliminate human genetic disor­graduate student Kurt Mills and "There is an area between 
sus. negotiation and war in which "Europe doesn't want an en­ders and to combat disease. Fortier emphasized the ele­law students Matt Schechter 
coercion is applied in a way forcement situation, but nego­ment of choice: "if people are and Poth in a 4-1 decision for consonant with law and jus­tiation is very difficult," he said. 
"We do not support changing willing to undergo genetic en­Pangborn. Second year law a baby's eye color through gene gineering with gene materials, student Bill Tunell disagreed, tice," Dowty said. According to The United States told Bosnia therapy," Fortier said, adding they should be allowed to do lauding Stanford's "effective Dowty, in negotiation, each side not to accept the Serbian set­
wants to achieve some goal. tlement because it was not fair,
that gene therapy used as "pre­so." It is unethical to avoid re­mitigation of the possible good ventive medicine" will help cur­search, she continued, and risk effects of genetic engineering." There must be balance and but have failed to do anything 
compromise, and urging nego­else to help their bargainingtail ballooning medical costs. should not function as an in­
hibiting factor. The debate series was found­tiation, third parties, such as position since then. Using what Judge Paul Poth ed in the 1988-89 academic United Nations peacekeepers, Enforcement becomes neces­called a "tragic choices argu­"A quadruple bypass is risky, year to increase student aware­are impartial and limited, said. sary when there is a clean-cut, 
ment," Stanford senior Eric but we continue to do them be­ness of domestic and in­"There must be voluntary co­either/or situation, with clear Escagne and freshman Chris cause of the possibility of suc­ternational social and political operation between the two par­international consensus, and 
when "might and right coin­

Regan countered by highlight­cess," she said. issues, according to Iceberg ties," stated Dowty. 
However, in enforcement is­cide," Dowty stated. 
ing the dangers of genetic uni­Chairman Matt Glover. 
formity and the potential pit­Declaring that the two sides sues, the opposite is true, he The Iraqi invasion of Kuwait falls of such knowledge. have "the same decision calcu­Pangborn Hall claims a $500 said. There is no compromise; is a case where a coercive re­lus -everyone wants to protect prize and possession of the one or both parties are forced sponse was more appropriate, Escagne opened with a quote safety, and everyone wants to tournament's traveling trophy, to accept terms. While we can­according to Dowty. from noted theologian and protect dignity," Regan sought said Glover. Runner-up not link justice and enforce­The response had all of the 
ment, "we assume that the in­characteristics of an enforce-author C.S. Lewis: "Man's to focus the debate on a cost­Stanford Hall earns $250. 
power over nature turns out to benefit analysis. He noted that ternational community is closer 
to justice than what would oth-see NEGOTIATION/ page 4 


..----~--~----------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


You've cotne a 


long way, Saint Mary's 
One year ago members of the Saint Mary's community were disgusted, outraged and generally feed-up. 
They called for a quick and drastic change. The source of their frus­tration-The Observer. 
No longer did they want to pick up a paper that claimed to serve them only 
to find that Saint Mary's------­
was merely a mention on the banner. 
The solution-Saint Mary's wanted their own newspaper, a paper where it would not be a rare occurrence to see a story or two about the concerns of their community. 
"Observer relations" as it was termed was the focus of discussion and a topic of passionate debate at a Student Government open forum. 
Students recited statistics on how many Saint Mary's stories had graced the pages of the inde­pendent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and the numbers were bleak. 
Something had to be done and no one saw the current forum as a possibility. 
But, for a select group of Saint Mary's stu­dents, improving the current community news­paper still loomed as a possibility. 
The small, but committed group pursued their quest actively and aggressively. Their goal was to improve not only the amount of Saint Mary's coverage in the Observer, but also the quality o the coverage and the perception of the paper in the community. 
It would and has been a long, and at times painful, struggle that many told us was a mis­sion impossible. 
At times it seemed as if realizing the goal o the increased quality and quantity of Saint Mary's coverage was a lost cause. 
Idealism may have been lost, but the staf fought every other battle and left the ring by their own means, many times the battle wounds being worn by others. 
Along the way we have struggled to fmd and recruit staffs that were willing to commit to our goal. Saint Mary's students are now not just relegated to positions on the Saint Mary's staff, but are represented in the advertising, news, accent, photography and production staffs among others. 
We have fought with a community where some wanted complete coverage to mean only completely good coverage. A community that sometimes wanted only to be shielded and cod­dled from criticism. 
We have spent long hours discussing our viewpoints and visions with administrators, coaches, students and sources. Many told us that our vision had been shared by the progres­sion of Saint Mary's staffs before us, our plight and result would be no different. 
Proudly a year later we have proved them all wrong. Saint Mary's coverage is by no means perfect, but it is a daily reality in the Observer. Students are once again beginning to pick up the Observer and not dismissing it because it is irrelevant to their community. 
Saint Mary's and the Observer you've come a long way in a year. On behalf of the members of the Saint Mary's staff we're happy to tell all our critics' we've proved you wrong. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Liz Foran Bridgette Farrell Mara Davis Kyle Green Sports 
Tim Seymour Accent Viewpoint Mary Good Brian Seiler 
Lab Tech Graphics Macy Hueckel Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Jennifer Habrych Saint Mary's Editor 

-
The Observer • INSIDE 

WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Bosnian Serbs agree to relief flights 
SARAJEVO Under the gun from NATO and pressured by their Russian allies, Bosnian Serbs agreed Tuesday to open Tuzla airport to relief flights that could feed hundreds of thousands of civilians.The decision to reopen the airfield was the crucial first step to beginning a relief airlift to the 800,000 people, many of them refugees, in and around the besieged Muslim city. It was also the second major concession the Bosnian Serbs have made in as many weeks and demonstrated the results of NATO resolve to enforce U.N. resolutions. NATO jets shot down four Bosnian Serb fighters violating the no-fly zone Monday, and had threatened also to open Tuzla airport by force. Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic had opposed opening the airport because he believed arms could be smuggled to the Muslims controlling it. But he made the concession following talks in Moscow with Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev. Washington was pleased. "I think the Russians are trying to further the peace process," said White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers. "I think they're trying to be helpful." The Muslim-led government and Bosnian Croats, meanwhile, agreed Tuesday on the framework for establishing a fed­eration. The United States has spearheaded efforts to push the former a}lies back together. "It shows that peace is possible," U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher said at a signing ceremony Monday night in Washington. 
Weather Threatens Shuttle Launch 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. Bad weather threatens to delay this week's launch of space shuttle Columbia on a science mission, NASA said today. Shuttle launch weather officer Ed Priselac said a squall is expected to pass through Kennedy Space Center on Wednesday and leave high wind in its wake. Priselac said the anticipated wind will give Columbia only a 30 percent chance of lifting off at 8:54 a.m. Thursday. The storm also is expected to cause rough seas, which could be dangerous for NASA's two booster recovery ships and their crews. The ships are supposed to be stationed about 180 miles offshore at liftoff to retrieve Columbia's two solid rocket boosters, which drop away two minutes into flight and land in the Atlantic Ocean. As for Columbia, NASA test director Bill Dowdell said this morning the countdown was going well. Five astronauts are to spend 14 days aboard Columbia conducting materials and med­ical experiments. It will be NASA's second shuttle mission this year and the 61st since shuttles began flying 13 years ago. 
Study says lN Rays Kill Amphibian Eggs 
PORTlAND, Ore. 
A finding that the sun's ultraviolet radiation is killing the eggs of dwindling frog, toad and salamander species sup­ports fears about the weakening of the Earth's ozone layer, researchers said. The finding comes in an Oregon State University study that is the largest field test to date on the effects of increasing UV-B, a type of ultraviolet radiation that also has been linked to skin cancer. The study, published Tuesday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, documents what scientists have suspected, said Bob Wiewese, assistant director of conservation and science at the American Zoo and Aquarium Association in Bethesda, Md. "Amphibians have been documented in a decline for many years now. There have been a number of different reasons given for the decline, and UV-B has been one of those that has been put forward over and over again," he said. 

NATIONAL Weather 
' INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 2. 
50s 40s 

FRONTS: 
"T""T"" .............. ...,.a.­
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather. Inc. Pressure 
H L m E:SJ ITIJ 0 fZ1 g i) ~ cCJ. 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vis .As8ociatfJd Pr68# 
Atlanta 51 46 Dallas 56 47 Minneapolis 33 11 
Baltimore 38 26 Denver 51 25 New Orleans 68 60 
Boston 29 18 Hartford 28 15 New York 34 24 
Chicago 32 24 Los Angeles 76 58 Philadelphia 34 24 
Col om bus 36 28 Miami 73 70 Phoenix 75 50 
Wednesday, March 2, 1994 
, • NATO Attack on Bosnia 
I 
Two American ~-16 lighter J&ls shot down f~ur Bosman Serb planes that violated the U.N. 00-tly zon~ over ~osn•a Mo_nday. U.N. sources sa1d the Serb planes had anacked a munitions factory in Nov1 Travn•k: a to~~ 1n central Bosnia held by Bosnia's Muslim-led government The incidenl marked the f1rst military ac110n by NATO in its 44-year htstmy. 
2.



1.5§55~
3. 
4. 
All timeS Silt Easlem Stsndatd r/1718 
~ =:~!;~~..=:;,..":!~';;~;· 
,....Nr!it<rb•i~J~. ltW..,nOII/11•11 <illdlnl"/ NtttMBo.sltiOI.Ilpudrtnftrrritu.,mtlt.­
I 
tturtlrw.-rJIUNillfrw:JntUII...,.Iu!rl/11 
..wtrmiii>SIIUI./IIIIl/<Jiil/rl{ll/>tHI//0 f'<'ltYIIIII/fJ<IIIIIIl/t/trti/11(). 
0 ~r~":.~~~~~:~r~k.':n~:~ 
.JI.Ifll~f"rt"'tu/tltrwlllllrl" 
(i) ;:::r~~=~·;:::;,~,~-'Mf7U 
ThaUn~edNahonsdeclaredaoo·fly zone 
ovetBosni<l.aiiTiedl)flmanlyatBosrlla/1 Setbs.mOctober 1992 OnApnl 12,1993. NATO planes began Opera bon Deny Fhght, ntendedtoenlorcetheU.N.declarahon,the 
ftrslinsta~ol!Mtiorth.AIIan!tcTteaty 
Dfoamzatoontla•mg•tsmtlttarymusclas . beyondltletemiCNYofmemOOrstates 
Source: NATO 
HIV-Positive rapist charged with murder 
MIAMI An HIV-positive man was found guilty of attempted mur­der for raping a boy, with the jury concluding that his AIDS virus was a lethal weapon. A Dade Circuit Court jury on Monday took less than an hour to convict Ignacio 
A. Perea Jr., 32. He also was found guilty of kidnapping, lewd and lascivious assault and sexual battery. It was the first prosecution of an HIV-positive rapist for first-degree attempted murder in the United States, according to Allan H. Terl, a attorney who studies AIDS issues. "I know there were some people who thought we were criminalizing a disease," Assistant State Attorney Susan Dechovitz said. "All that we ask is that people act respon­sibly, be it with a gun or if they have a deadly virus," she said after the verdict. 
Pesticide Suspect in Bakersfield Case 
BAKERSFIELD, Calif. 
Pesticide poisoning appears to be the culprit in the case of a hospital patient whose body emitted ammonia-like fumes, closing an emergency room and sickening three workers. Saturday, three Mercy Hospital emergency room workers suffered headaches, dizziness and burning eyes from ammonia-like fumes as they inserted a breath­ing tube into a woman who had breathing problems and a low pulse, said Steve McCalley, director of environmen­tal health for Kern County. The woman's husband brought authorities a cup of liquid he found in the home and it turned out to be Dursban, an over-the-counter pes­ticide used for killing ants and other insects, McCalley said. "She ingested it in her house," he said. "We can't tell if it was intentional or otherwise." 
Wednesday, March 2, 1994 

The Observer • NEWS 
Senate to vote on antendntent 
By ALAN FRAM Reid's measure was a political Maine, and Senate Associated Press fig leaf, designed merely to let Appropriations Committee some Democrats vote for a bal­Chairman Robert Byrd, D­
WASHINGTON anced budget amendment while W.Va. 
The Senate killed one bal­opposing Simon's tougher ver­A slim defeat would be a anced budget constitutional sion. Reid and his supporters familiar outcome for the pro­amendment today that insisted that their effort was posal, which lawmakers consid­Republicans complained was genuine, and fired back that er every few years. Most too lenient, then girded for a Simon's was too harsh. recently, the amendment fell showdown over a stricter ver­"We at least have a fig leaf. one vote short of Senate pas­sion whose defeat was all but They are stark naked," Reid sage in 1986 and nine votes certain. said. short of House approval in 
Just hours before the Senate Criticism also came from the 1992. planned to hold its final vote, other end of Pennsylvania Sen. David Pryor, D-Ark., Avenue. Simon's amendment would became the 34th senator to President Clinton called the prohibit budget deficits begin­declare he would vote against proposal a "recipe for total ning in the year 2001 unless the measure. Constitutional paralysis" and urged its defeat. they were approved by three­amendments require two-thirds "I don't know where it's going fifths majorities in both cham­majorities of the 100-member but I hope that it won't be bers of Congress. Procedural Senate and the 435-member passed. Because ifit is passed it changes also would make it House. runs the risk of endangering harder for the government to 
By a 78-22 tally, senators our economic recovery," borrow money and raise taxes. rejected a proposal by Sen. Clinton said. But decisions on how to end Harry Reid, D-Nev., that would Simon's backers conceded the 25-year stream of federal have required an end to federal that they had lost the fight. red ink would have to be made deficits by the year 2001 but "This round is over. I know by lawmakers later -an mnis­would have protected Social that we don't have the votes," sion that led opponents to Security and public works said one supporter, Sen. John brand the plan a phony. spending from budget-balanc­McCain, R-Ariz. "All it really does is establish ing cuts. Simon was not conceding, but hope for a goal," said Sen. John 
Lawmakers then resumed neither was he predicting victo­Kerry, D-Mass., who was unde­debate on a more stringent ry. cided until he said Monday plan, sponsored by Sen. Paul "If we don't pass it this time, night that he would oppose Simon, D-Ill., and supported this isn't going to die," he said. Simon's amendment. "It does mostly by conservatives, that Facing Simon and his allies nothing to reach the goal." would spare no programs from were some formidable foes: the potential reductions. president, Senate Majority Simon, a liberal whose 
Republicans charged that Leader George Mitchell, D-amendment is backed mostly by 

Wishing You A 
Happy 21st Birthday Melissa Peters 
From: The Happy Quad, Erin and Paulette 
conservatives, said his plan was needed because the govern­ment's costs of borrowing are squeezing out needed social programs. 


Importance of diaries emphasized 
By JESSICA BATTLE Along with the loss of interest where they were raised. News Writer in writing was the decrease of "The diary was a place where reading by adolescent girls. they did some of their most 
There has been a decline in Hunter discussed the impor­acute living," she said. the writing of journals and tance of these two passtimes in Victorian girls kept diaries diaries as a way for women to her lecture, "Reading, Writing, because it was the only place discover themselves due to an and the Construction of the self: where they could tell of their increase in television watching Victorian Girls in America ". feelings about some of the and other such activities that Hunter said that through restricted material they chose do not include the workings of reading certain material and to read. the pen, according to Jane expressing their opinions in These restricted materials Hunter. associate professor of journals and diaries helped consisted of novels that told of History at Lewis and Clark adolescent girls to break free uncontralled passions that College. from the restraining society young women were not allowed 




TRAVEL EMERGENCY KIT 
to be exposed to. This kind of reading material was thought to influence them in an unde­sirable way, Hunter said. 
"These novels gave the ado­lescent girls an image of a mid­dle class heroine that began to develop as a competing model for the masculine heroes that were so prominant in Victirian literature," she said. 
Reading these novels did, however, cause guilty feelings among their readers due to society's opinion that they were inappropriate for girls. These feelings of suspicion and the second guessing of self were expressed in their writings., Hunter said. 
Quoting journals of many adolescent girls, Hunter said the girls of the Victorian era "spent much of their lives through the written word." 
One of these young writers said that destroying her diary" destroyed her dreams." 
"The link between reading and writing are two halves of an important nineteenth centu­ry project called self-culture," she said. 
Through these two actions the Victorian girl was allowed to discover herself and deal with the emotions that she was experiencing in the books she was reading even though they were not appropriate for her culture. 
Most of the writings that Hunter used for her research are published in collections or found in family history collec­tions. 

Buy the easy to use Western Union 
Phone Card, a pre-paid calling card. Available at 

Serving You Comes First 
f 
page4 

Holy Cross Hall freshmen Ashley McArdle and Julia Kalgren take advantage of the snow piles on campus yesterday. With March 
underway, winter is fading fast. 
Negotiation 
continued from page 1 
ment situation, but Dowty be­lieves, at some point it became a war. "The logic of war is to destroy the enemy's forces with the least damage to your own," he said, while enforcement 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
that HPC does not discriminate against race, creed or sexual orientation," said Canzoniero. 
"We're not condoning the ac­tions of this group. We are saying that we recognize them as a support group," said Breen Phillips Co-President Karen Dubay. "We want to recognize the rights of students who are not being treated with respect." 
Ace Ventura: Pll DellciiYeiPG-13): 
12:30, 2:45, 5:1517:45110:00 
ll1nt Clredr (PG : 12: 5, 2:30, 5:00, 
7:00,9:15 
GIIIIIIIY Old Men (PG-13): 1:15, 4:15, 
6:45 9:00 
II¥ Flllltr IIIII Hera (PG): 12:45, 3:00, 
5:00, 7:30, 10:00 
De lludlv Grauad (R): 2:00. 4:30,
7:15,9:45 
Rllllly Blln(PG-13): 2:15, 4:45, 7:00, 
9:30 
Blue CbiPI(PG-13):0aily:4:30, 7:00, 9:30 Mra. Ooublllra(PG-13):Datty:4:15, 7:15 .10:00 lly Glriii(PG):Oaily:S:OO, 7:30, 9:45 
MontegoBay Negrll Cancun 
•a.,•I'1VrM tl'9m lndlanapalb or Chlt•••lll 'oMr IH!IIVIIII' cl-at1on1 lndvd• 
Pcmama a~y a DDJtoN\• ...ell, florlckl 
'(;aA ,..,. ""'"' lnfllf"IIMdloniH 
efforts attempt to m1mm1ze loss to both sides. Operation Desert Storm was a largely American effort with the majority of loss on the Iraqi side. "It was a huge misstep in the right direc­tion," Dowty said, because he believes that the goal of liberat­ing Kuwait could have been accomplished without a war. 
The United States "has to un­· 

The Observer • NEWS 
Strike 
continued from page 1 
ity, Matthys has had a chance to observe first hand the prob­
lems in the schools. 
"I was given two classes of kids to handle, and I'm not even a teacher," he said. "I heard that other schools were just leaving their kids in the cafeteria all day to watch movies or play cards. I hope that by trying to substitute teach, I'm part of the solution, not the problem." 
Several panel members criti­cized the decision to leave schools open as a money mak­ing ploy. The South Bend schools will continue to receive Indiana state funds by meeting minimum attendance require­ments. In that environment an educational atmosphere is diffi­cult to achieve. 
The plight of kids left sitting in school or at home by the strike deeply concerned those in attendance. As members of the South Bend community, many felt it is within Notre Dame and Saint Mary's power to help out. 
"As Catholic institutions, we are ethically bound to help these kids," Keenan sophomore Pete Shaheen said. 
derstand what the chmces are and what the implications of the choices are," Dowty ex­plained, when faced with a de­cision to negotiate or coerce. An international coalition must be built, preferably through the UN Security Council; however, the United States must "take the lead, and be ready to follow through," Dowty stated. 
ART POETRY SHORT FICTION PROSE 
SUBMISSION DUE DATES: 
FOR LITERATURE AND SLIDE OF ART WORK· ALL SUBMISSIONS ARE DUE FRIDAY; MARCH 4 AND SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ENGLISH OFFICE 3S60'SHAG 
IF YOU DON'T HAVE SLIDES OF YOUR ARTWORK BRING IT TO ROOM 200 IN RILEY HALL TONIGHT BETWEEN 7:00 AND 9:00PM FOR PHOTOGRAPHING PURPOSES 
Wednesday, March 

North Korea agrees to talks with South Korea 
By JU-YEON KIM Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea 
South Korea agreed to the Communist North's offer and will reopen talks this week about exchanging presidential envoys, a South Korean oflicial said Tuesday. 
The talks mark the first step toward defusing the year-long crisis over the North's suspect­ed nuclear weapons develop­ment and its refusal to allow international inspections. 
In another positive devel­opment, seven inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency arrived in Pyongyang on Tuesday, China's official Xinhua News Agency reported. 
The inspectors want to deter­mine whether any nuclear material has been diverted from North Korean reactors at seven sites. For over a year, Pyongyang government has balked at permitting in­spections of the reactors and has vehemently denied that it is developing nuclear weapons. 

However, two other sus­pected nuclear sites, which the North describes as unrelated military facilities, will not be included in the inspections, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Thomas Hubbard said in Washington. 
The resumption in dialogue by the two Koreas, estranged since World War II, will set the stage for a new round of high­level talks between North Korea and the United States and a decision to halt this year's U.S.-South Korea mili­tary exercises. 






..--------------­

Ifyou are interested in learning how to confront oppression, then sign up now! 
The Multicultural Executive Council is offering students, staff and professors the opportunity to participate in this diversity sensitivity workshop: 
L~111j-ed Enroll111en~, Call 1111111edja~ely 
SATURDAY, MARCH 19TH 
8:30 AM -4:30 PM 
EARTH SCIENCE BUILDING ROOM 101 
LUNCH WILL BE PROVIDED 
THIS WORKSHOP IS BEING PRESENTED BY THE NOTRE DAME AFFILIATE OF THE NATIONAL COALITION BUILDING INSTITUTE 
CONTACT: MICKEY FRANCO • 631-4355 DEMETRIUS MARLOW • 631-4619 ADELE LANAN • 631-7308 
--.,......-----~-~--------~-~~~-~-..........-------.-...........­
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 2, 1994 page? 
~-.. ..-.-.-·~--------·-~---------­
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARy's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 
News Editor.. .............. Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............................. Suzy Fry Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Aa:ent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson 
Photo Editor """""""""'""""'""'Jake Perers Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager Brian Kennedy 

Advenising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systenu Manager .............................. Patrick Barth OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan 
ControUer """""""""""""""""""""""Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to aU members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through le!!ers is encouraged. 

Observer Phone Lines  
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/OTS  
N<WS/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students should reconsider substituting 
Dear Editor: 
Sunday evening, while watch­ing the Channel 16 evening newscast, I was, and remain, dismayed to hear a report on the current South Bend Public School Teachers' Strike and one reaction to it by some stu­dents of the University of Notre Dame. It appears to the casual observer that many of these 
' I would ask those stu­dents who have visions of dollar signs dancing in their heads to find out a bit about this current strike ....' 
students are totally lacking in any sense of social responsibil­ity or awareness and are gov­erned by an overwhelming sense of self and egocentrism. 
This conclusion was arrived at after listening to two current students gleefully state how content they were to be able to earn some spending money by temporarily replacing teachers who are on strike. The teachers are striking in an attempt to gain some measure of respect and to be granted a fair con­tract from the South Bend School Corporation. The stu­dents seemed elated by the prospect of earning from be­tween $60 and $100 per day at the expense of these same striking teachers. 
I would ask these students, and any others who might share in their enthusiasm for quick temporary personal prof­it, if they remember any of their history lessons, or if they have any knowledge of the struggles of the labor force to right certain social wrongs in the past. If they have difficulty with history, then perhaps a quick glimpse into the future might benefit them, and I would ask them to consider the prospect of their being offered a one percent raise along with an increase in medical benefits costs when they are enjoying the fruits of being employed in a stressful, underpaid and over­taxing position. 
I would ask those students who have visions of dollar signs dancing in their heads to find out a bit about this current strike before they run over to the School Corporation to say they have sixty credits on their transcripts and are qualified to be glorified babysitters. 

I know you might think you have something to offer the stu­dents at the various public schools, but you cannot replace the real teachers at these schools. You should offer your services during the regular school year if you feel your presence is valuable. It most certainly could be. Do you real­ly need the twenty pieces of sil­ver for it? Talk to a teacher or two. Find out why they are picketing. 
My children are supporting this strike, and it is not because they are happy to be out of school. No, they are in fact very depressed about not going, and they are worried about their teachers, and they are worried about projects they had going on in their classrooms, and they are very much looking forward to the end of this business so that their lives can get back to some sort of normalcy. But they are in the process of living a serious life lesson in a positive manner. I hope all students of Notre Dame can say as much. The teachers need your sup­port. 
BILL SANDUSKY 
An Depanment 
Saint Mary's College 
Strike breakers not in tune with facts 
Dear Editor: 
I believe that all our students absolutely have to fulfill the re­quirements of their courses. If they do not fulfill such require­ments, especially for such an illegal and disgusting reason as breaking the South Bend teach­ers' strike as uncertified suck­stitute teachers, one should 
DOONESBURY 
0/<A Y, EJA~, IN 7HI5 N&XT5C/3N&, 
YOU'!!& f/.A'3HIN6 BACK &16HT 
Y&AR? ... ~ 
/(___....._______,____, 
YOU'RE PRACTICING ATFOUR 
IN TH& MORNING. UP& 1!3 
TOUGH, NOBO{)'f /fJU!eV&S 
IN YOU, BUT THe~ /,(j()N'T PI&, rfOT 17?­
..,----­
631-4540 631-5303 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 

ND needs Catholic renewal 
determine their grades accord­ingly. I hope colleagues will join me in impressing upon our stu­dents that they have to acquaint themselves with the facts and issues of this strike first, that they cannot just take time off, and that they have to fulfill course requirements still. 
More important, I submit that 

when students of the University of Notre Dame trample on the necks of our teachers for 30 sil­ver pieces a day, we have failed in our mission of affording them a moral education. 
CORNELIUS THOMAS 
Visiting Assistant Professor 
Department of History 
I THINK 
'30. 
\ 
BYTHtWAY, TH/5'313 SC131'1&!3 
AR&PLAYW 
IN7~NU/?e. 
/1 ~ 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Mary Good's article (Feb. 24, 1994) concern­ing the Catholic identity of Saint Mary's College, I would like to thank (Protestant) Professor Elizabeth Newman for address­
' contrary to popular opinion, having a majority of students from 
a particular faith tradi­tion ... does not, ipso facto, make the institu­
tion Catholic.' 
ing this critical issue. Newman says that " it is hard to be Protestant in a place where Catholics are not saying what it means to be Catholic." I can as­sure her (and have) that it is equally hard to be Catholic in a place where Catholics are not saying what it means to be Catholic. 
We do, indeed, need to place "as much emphasis on Catholic identity as there is on women's identity ... and foster an intellec­tual respect" for the Catholic tradition if the Catholic "character" so frequently referred to in the article is to be revived at Saint Mary's. Contrary to popular opinion, having a majority of students from a particular faith tradi­tion, in this case the Catholic tradition, enrolled in an institu­tion does not, ipso facto, make the institution Catholic. 
Neither is our Catholic identi­ty secured simply because we have a daily Eucharistic liturgy or even Sisters of the Holy Cross present within the institution We presently have all of those things at Saint Mary's and yet we clearly are having an "identity crisis" con­cerning our Catholic character. "Character" is something that pervades one's whole being and the development of character can not be compartmentalized or relegated to convenient, non-threatening, occasional, extracurricular moments in our lives. 

There is irony and poignancy in the fact that a Protestant religious studies' professor should be calling us to claim who we are and challenging us to say what we stand for as a Catholic institution. It also may be prophetic, a proverbial "wake up call." Saint Mary's is celebrating a hallmark in it's history, a history that is remarkable in this century for its prophetic role in the Catholic Church in the prepara­tion of women to take their place in that Church. 
' Neither is our Catholic identity secured simply because we have a daily Eucharistic liturgy ... .' 
We can let that heritage drib­ble away or we can reclaim and renew it. We can offer apolo­gies for who and what we are as a Catholic institution or we can address ourselves to what is best in the Catholic intellec­tual tradition and form the heart and mind of the Saint Mary's women in that tradition so that she might be a critical thinker and a prophetic voice for the Church of the next mil­lennium. 
BETIINA MARIA FERRARO 
Sister Pr=nceiMission 
Saint Mary's College 

''Dothe thing you fear, and the death of fear is certain." 
-Ralph Waldo Emerson 
~~, ~r~------~­
page 8 Wednesday, March 2, 1994
VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Scientific proof is the key to abortion reasoning 
Dear Editor: 
Abortion is a subject that draws strong emotions from both sides of the line. In par­ticular, I am referring to Erin McMahon's article dealing with "freedom of choice" (The Observer, Feb. 25, 1994). 
Before, however, interceding my own opinion, I would like to lay down some general points from which the debate should stem from, in particular the start of human life and two cru­cial flaws in the Roe decision of 1973. 
The first thing that needs to be considered, without either theological or philosophical in­terjection, is the scientific proof of when human life begins. 
Science was, until the 1830's, unsure of how life came about. They understood that life began sometime in the womb, but could not pinpoint an exact time. 
In the 1830's, however, two scientists for the first time wit­nessed, under a microscope, the fusion of a human sperm and egg cell, and were able to document the growth of the or­ganism, the human organism, independent of any other in­formation being implanted in it, throughout the nine months of pregnancy. 
These scientists concluded that human life must therefore begin at conception. for the or­ganism was capable of self-sus­tained growth, with only food and shelter from the mother, for the rest of its life. 
In 1837, Connecticut became the first state in America to out­law abortion, due to the sci­entific discovery. 
Since then, there has not been any evidence brought forth by science to dispute the theory that human life begins at coneption. Furthermore, with the discovery of DNA recombi­nation, the Jefferey's Bar Code, and the effects that the blasto­cyst has on the mother when it implants in her uterus lining, the theory has become an in­disputable fact, so indisputable, that in 1970, the California Journal of Medicine published these stunning sentences when discussing implantation of the "new" medical ethic: 
"Since the old ethic has not been fully displaced it has been necessary to separate the idea of abortion from the idea of killing, which continues to be socially abhorrent. The result has been a curious avoidance of the scientific fact, which every­one really knows, that human life begins at conception and is continuous whether intra-or extra-uterine until death. "(Italics mine) 
The California Journal of Medicine was issuing a pro­choice article. 
Finally, when the Human Life Amendment was being debated in 1981, it was noted that "Pro­abortionists, though invited to do so, failed to produce even a single expert witness who would specifically testify that life begins at any point other than conception or implantation (Dr. Bernard Nathanson, a pro­life atheist. argues for implan­tation because that is when the embryo first makes it's pres­cence known to the mother through hormone releasings into the mother's body). Only one witness said no one can tell when life begins." 
With all of the scientific evi­dence proving that human life begins at conception, one won­ders who exactly is imposing their morals on other people. After all, it is one thing to say "do not kill"; it is another to say that a person is not a person 

NO students need to grow up, play by the rules 
Dear Editor: 
In the Thursday Feb. 24 issue of The Observer a letter ap­peared from a large number of Carroll Hall residents. This let­ter has caused me to say to these residents -grow up. You broke the rules and now you have to pay the consequences. Students always complain the administration treats them like children, yet these gentlemen are complaining that they have to take responsibility for their actions. Don't blame the pow­ers that be in the Administration building because you built an illegal loft. 
Another item of great con­cern is a statement made in the letter, these residents claim "action has been taken to strip our home of one of it's most useful and enjoyable elements." You gentlemen have a lot of maturing to do. If you enjoy Carroll because of cool lofts maybe you are at the wrong University. A few years ago I went through the experience of being forced out of my hall. and yet I realized the most impor­tant aspect of the hall is the people you live with not the walls, location, or lofts. If you consider lofts so important, I think your lives must be very superficial. 
WAYNE GOVEIA 
Senior Alumni Hall 


because your morals state that tions and breast cancer. aborted even to save the moth­that person is not a person. In Chatanooga, Tennessee, er's life. Perhaps the "tolerant" side on one clinic never had a state­There are conditions such as the issue has been the intoler­registered doctor working at it. ectopic pregnancies or cancer­ant side all along. Abortion laws in Maryland cur­ous preganancies where the 
Next, I would like to chal­rently do not even regulate removal of the fetus is not con­lenge Roe on two crucial errors whether a doctor need perform sidered an abortion by science, that are written into Mr. the operation or not. because the fetal death is a sec­Blackmun's defense of abor­In lieu of these reports, why ondary cause of saving the tion. The first is the trimester do not states intervene to try to mother's life. framework, since eliminated, make abortions safe? They can­But. it has already been but still adhered to. Due to the not, because the Roe decision shown that human life begins at trimester framework, no state does not allow them to regulate conception. may regulate abortion for any for first trimester abortions. In Moreover, with the removal reason during the first three 95% of the cases listed above, of eggs from aborted females in months of pregnancy. This is so the abortions occurred in the Britain nearing, science even though a woman's health first trimester. is readily admittinp that thev may be in danger. Let us con­Most chilling is the Alan are dealing with human life, be­sider a few examples. Guttmacher sudy, because they cause if those eggs werer re­
The Chicago Times did a re­are anorganization that has moved from anything but a port in 1978 in which it was something serious to lose if human being, then when mixed discovered that twelve deaths their report is true. Moreover, with a human sperm, we would had been unreported by region­since pro-choicers care so have an odd hybrid between a al abortion clinics. much for women, where is their "fetus" and a "human being." 
In 1989, the Miami Herald clamour over these reports? But with Blackmun I concur, documented mold growing on Apparently health is sub­and agree that abortion should the suction machine that is of­sidiary to "choice". The differ­not be legal for any reason at ten used for abortions, and un­ence between keeping abortion all. sterilized equipment littered legal or illegal, for women, is Dade County's abortion clinics. whether you want to see one Though this is only my opin­
60 Minutes did a report on a hundred thousand or one mil­ion, and steps must be taken Washington D.C. abortion clinic lion, four hundred thousand before we can, as a nation, con­that was sent out of the city due women injured from abortions cede victory for life. For now, to its health violations, only to every year. Do not forget that however, I favor an overruling move to Maryland where there when abortion was illegal, 90% of the Roe decision and a return were no health laws to violate. of abortions took place in doc­of the issue to the states, where That health clinic subsequently tor's offices. And women are pro-lifers as well as pro­killed one woman and co­not stupid. If abortion was ille­choicers will be able to estab­matosed another. gal, they could be taught why lish laws in their own states as 
The Alan Guttmacher insti­abortion is wrong, just like any­they see fit. This would quell tute, the research group for one else, and therefore not get the rancor of the debate, and Planned Parenthood, the abortions. ultimately would lead to a fit­largest abortion provider in the Finally, the court stated that ting end of the discussion with world, reports a 91% incident "We need not determine when a Constitutional Amendment, rate of physical or psychological life begins". But that is the most for or against abortion. The distress inflicted on women fundamental question in the Supreme Court will hopefully during or after abortions. abortion debate. This is so be­accept the Loce case from New 
A British study in 1990 found cause there is no law in any Jersey to deal with just such a that physical and psychological civilized nation that can allow possibility. distress can occur anywhere for the justified slaughter of from 43-87% of the time, innocent human life. Blackmun ROGER ZALNERAITIS resulting from abortions. even noted that if the fetus was Freshman Numerous reports are showing a person as defined by the con­
Morrissey Hall 

stronger links between abor-stitution, then it could not be 
America not world's policeman 
Dear Editor: 
American National Interest is the only sufficient justification for armed interference in the conflict in Bosnia. However, humanitarian concerns may, perhaps, be thought to come under such a heading. Yet, if the United States of America is to intervene, it must not do so alone. 
The United States of America 
can not be expected by the 
world to spend its money and peacekeeping mission. Such nitely not be allowed into the
young lives as the "world's po­lice," simply because it is now missions were created by Bosnian theater. It is an unfor­
Canadian Prime Minister Lester tunate fact that America is per­the sole remaining superpower. 
Pearson specifically to escape ceived by the internationalThese opinions are attributed the context of the national community to lack the above­
to Major Peter Ferraro, in 
interest of a particular state, to mentioned characteristic for"Ferraro: U.S. should not act provide military detachment peacekeeping: namely impar­alone in Bosnia" (The Observer, 
assigned is the ideal, as the end tiality.
Friday, 25 February). 
in sight is the good of the war­

I respond: that American ring factors (i.e. peace), not the The temptation to provokeNational Interest is the sole suf­good of the enforcing countries. American retaliation againstficient condition for America's Further, there are at present the enemy faction, by anony­
armed intervention in the thirty-one countries with mous attacks on American
affairs of other states, for the peacekeeping soldiers in troops, would be great, both for good solely of one's own state, Bosnia. The demand that Bosnians and for the Serbs. We
is ever permissible. It also 
America not act alone in any have seen this unfortunate con­assumes that the only context is contemplated intervention is an sequence both in conflict in
one in which the good of 
insult to countries like Canada Somalia, and in the violent re­America is the only thing to be 
(whose military opened the action to even the threat of
taken into account -namely Sarajevo airport in the first American armed interventionthe context of America as a sov­
place) and France, who have in Haiti. 
ereign nation. 
had peacekeeping troops on the It seems, then, that America ground since the beginning of can not be the "world's police­The first assumption seems to the UN intervention. It is an man," but for reasons much
me immoral. The second 
insult to all troops now in different than those suggestedassumption seems to me to be Bosnia. by Major Ferraro. 
clearly false with regard to the 
Finally, I am in agreement

situation in Bosnia. America's 
with Canadian General Lewis GREGORY MACISAAC 
involvement (or rather possible 
McKenzie, who believes that Graduate Student in Philosophy 
involvement) in Bosnia is solely 
American troops should defi-Fischer Graduate Residences 
within the context of a UN 


·-­
ACCENT 
Wednesday, March 2, 1994 page 9 
& 
Orchestra concert features freshmen soloists 

By DAN MCKILLOP By THOMAS KANE Accent Writer Accent Writer 
Jeanine Wynton started early. 
"Discipline and hard work are the keys to success ... but " I began playing the violin when I was about two and a half talent doesn't hurt." These sound like words uttered by years old." she said. some Irish football coach on the gridirons surrounding "My sister is four years older than I am and she began when Cartier Field. But this advice was not spoken by Rockne, she was six. I just decided that I wanted to play too." Leahy, or Parseghian. These are words of wisdom from Jeanine continued to play the violin throughout her elemen­freshman music major Miriam Eckelhoefer who noted that tary and high school education, which took place in La Canada, athletes are not the only ones practicing 4 or 5 hours a day. California, a suburb of Los Angeles. Eckelhoefer will get a chance showcase her talent, sharp­
As her talent grew, Jeanine began to enjoy the honors award­ened by years of practicing 4-8 hours daily as she plays her ed to those who have the dedication to master an instrument as cello Thursday as a featured soloist in the Notre Dame difficult as the violin. music department's annual winter concert. 
She won several musical competitions in elementary school The California native won this honor by tying with and high school and she considers her greatest honor "as far as Jeanine Wynton in a campus-wide competition held last orchestra was when I was named concert master of the All­December, besting a select group of performers including State Orchestra in California." graduate and undergraduate students. 
Now a freshman living in Siegfried Hall, the violin is still a While the former high school swimmer who hopes to one major part of Jeanine's life. day teach chamber music has always enjoyed a variety of 
She performs with the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra and activities, music and school take up much of her time now. will be one of two soloists at the annual Winter Concert this "As a musician, most of my time goes to practice," she said. Thursday in Washington Hall. Music has been a way of life for Eckelhoefer since a very 
Regarding her solo, Jeanine admits that she is "a little ner­early age, when her mother got her interested in playing vous because I have midterms coming up and I still have to be the piano. She switched to the violin, and finally to her sure to practice." current instrument, the cello. 
The other soloist scheduled to perform Thursday night is Why would someone want to play this bulky instrument, freshman cellist Miriam Eckelhoefer, whom Jeanine tied in the that must be balanced on the floor by a steel tip? "It has a Symphony Concerto Competition for best soloist a few months wide range of sounds ...its beautiful." It also has a benefit ago. not associated with others instruments. "You can sit down' 
Jeanine identifies her style of playing as "classical, hopefully while playing it," she said. 
entertaining" violin. While Eckelhoefer has been performing most of her life, She plans to play two movements by Bruch on Thursday, but the role of soloist presents new challenges and opportuni­her musical tastes are hardly reserved to the classical. ties for musical expression. "Performing as a soloist "I love all types of music," she says, "from ACIDC to opera." requires more technical skill. It is a chance to show off an 
Jeanine's distant future also features the violin as a focal point. instrument with an orchestra accompaniment." She is a music performance major and has set a goal of going These sentiments are similar to those of her friend, fellow on "to play in a big name symphony or orchestra." Californian, and fellow featured soloist Jeanine Wynton. "In 
When not relaxing and "doing the usual freshman hanging­a [soloist role], you're the star. The orchestra performs for out activities", Jeanine is busy with the other extra-curricular you ... [lts a chance] to show technique, presence and musi­activities she participates in. cality," Wynton said. 
You might fmd her serving as a Eucharistic minister at mass "There is a spectrum of music including contemporary in the Basilica, and if you can't make it to hear her on Thursday and classical. .. a wide variety of audience interests," said you could possibly catch a performance at dorm masses, par­Eckelhoefer. Her own musical interests are "hot blooded" ticularly Siegfried's. South American composers such as Via Lobos and 
So whether you were haunted by the soundtrack to Ginastera. Schindler's List , you're a classical music junkie, or you simply While it obviously takes great ability to reach love the sound of a well played violin, show up at Washington Eckelhoefer's level, she modestly focused away from her Hall for the Winter Concert this Thursday. talent, "I believe that anyone can play the cello. It can be 
Jeanine has something for all to enjoy. And she's been prac­compared to sports. Determination and self-disci­ticing for a long time. pline ... that's what makes the great performers." 
..__________. Could Lou Holtz have said it any better? 
Two students' abilities to be noted tonight 
By STEPHANIE SLUKA Accent Writer 
All around campus, students pick up their instruments to repeatedly practice fragmented pieces of music. Rough parts and squeaky notes are rehearsed continually. 
At 8 p.m. on Thursday, March 2, all these musi­cians will bring their individual efforts together for the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra's Winter Concert. 
The walls of Washington Hall will echo the intri­cate harmonies of the entire orchestra as directed by Guy Bordo. Although the group is comprised mostly of students who are playing for their own enjoyment, Anne Compson, publicity manager, said it's "a great place for students to get a good musical experience, and [Bordo] demands that everyone play at a professional level." 
Before winter break, many of the musicians par­ticipated in a competition held by the music department. The winners, as determined by the music department faculty, are awarded solos in the Winter Concert. 
The exceptional talents of two freshman, Jeanine Wynton and Miriam Eckelhoefer, won the approval of the judges and they will consequently shine in the spotlight of the concert. 
Compson remarks that it is indeed "a novelty that both are freshman." Although they may be young, "both are extremely talented musicians," according to Compson and certainly have a wealth of musical experience. 
Wynton, a violinist, will perform the first solo in Bruch's Violin Concerto in G minor. Her expan­sive musical career began in Los Angeles at the age of two when she first picked up a miniture violin. 
As her violins grew in size, so did the vast scope of her opportunities. Eight years after she first played Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star, she was tour­ing Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and playing with the Montevideo Symphony Orchestra. 
Since attending the University, Wynton has been a student of Caroline Plumer. Under her guid­ance, Wynton will continue to solo this spring. 
Miriam Echelhoefer, another native of California, will perform the second solo in the Kabalevski Cello Concerto. Being one of only six music majors involved in the orchestra, Echelhoefer shows her dedication daily practicing two to four hours. 
With music definitely in her future, Echelhoefer originally chose Notre Dame for the opportunity to work with cello teacher Karen Barankis. She had heard of her reputation and when she fmally met her, Eckelhoefer felt she "would work very well with her." 
This year has proved her correct. She says, "I've gained a lot from the experience," and humbly admits, "sometimes I feel inferior [to Baranskis], but I'm here to learn and continue improving." 
Now after a month and a half of preparation, the ND Symphony Orchestra will take the stage and give Eckelhoefer the chance to do what she enjoys the most -"make music with other people." 

-----~----~~~----~-..... --.........--------;--­
.. --~----------~-~-~--~-~--­
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 2, 1994 
Hoosiers rebound for victory 
No. 171ndiana 82, Illinois 77 
Humiliated in a 50-point loss to Minnesota on Sunday, No. 17 Indiana responded Tuesday night with an 82-77 victory over Illinois. 
Damon Bailey and Alan Henderson, two of the four starters who spent most of Sunday's game on the bench for reasons coach Bob Knight did not explain, led an inspired Indiana team as it extended the nation's longest home winning streak to 43 games. 
Bailey, who had 22 points, made all 12 of his free throws as the Hoosiers made the Illini pay for fouling. Indiana (18-6, 11-4 Big Ten) hit 26 of 31 free throws, compared to eight of 20 by Illinois (15-9, 8-7). 
Henderson, who didn't score and was pulled early in the 106-56 loss at Minnesota, had 20 points, 11 rebounds, four blocks and four assists. The only problem he had was at the free throw line where he accounted for all of Indiana's misses. 
Indiana also got a big boost from the return of Pat Graham who had missed two games ~ith a foot injury and returned to score 21 points. 
Kiwane Garris had 20 points to lead Illinois, which trailed by 16 with eight minutes to play and then made it close with a 
,..-flurry of 3-pointers in the fmal 
minutes. Garris had five 3­
pointers. 
Illinois trailed by two early in the second half, but Indiana scored 10 consecutive points in 

Photo courtesy/Boston College Sports lnlormation 
Boston College center Bill Curley scored 30 points and grabbed ·11 boards in his final collegiate home game, leading the Eagles over St. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS Pandora's Bks ND ave & Howard '233-2342110·6 M-Sat 9-3 Sun 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
STILL HAVE md. trip plane ticket to MINNEAPOLIS for SPRING BREAK--<Iirty cheap. Jason x1593 
ILOST&FOUNDI 
FOUND: Men's watch on Sat. 
night. It has a dark brown leather 
band and a purple face. It was 
found on the path between the 
Basilica and Howard. If you lost it, 
call Maureen at 4-2922. 
Coat left in Career & Placement about1 1/2 weeks ago. Call 631·5200, ask for Katie. 
LOST: oval-rimmed glasses in a blue case. Small reward • call John @ 4·1722. 
3 keys on keyring lost between N.Dining Hall, Lafortune & Library If found please call x41 00 
Found: last summer class ring along AuSable River in Grayling Michigan. Call Mark 517-799-4792. 
WANTED 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY· MENT· fisheries. Many earn $2000+/mo. in canneries or $3000· $6000+/mo. on fishing vessels. Many employers provide benefits. No exp. necessary! For more info call: 1-206-545-4155 ext A5584 
RIDE needed for 2 to St. Louis for 
Spring Break. Call Christian 
@1226 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­mer. Maritime Services 1·208-860­0219 WANTED: 
HELP WANTED Loading trucks, weekdays 4-7PM, 2-5 days a week depending on your schedule. Requires some heaily lifting. Get your exercise & earn a paycheck at the same time. 287-2316 ask for Mark 
Need a ride to DCNA area for spring break. Will pay gas and tolls. Call Dom at x1460 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL EMPLOY· MENT GUIDE, EARN BIG $$ + TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) HURRY BUSY SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS APPROACHING. FREE STUDENT TRAVEL CLUB MEMBERSHIP! CALL (919)929-4398 ext C29 
Work in the Wild! Tour guide, dude ranch, instructor, lifeguard, trail maintenance, hotel staff, firefighter 
+ volunteer and government posi­tions available at national parks. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Over 25,000 openings! Apply now for best positions. For more info call: 1· 206-545-4804 ext N5584 
Wanted: 
Calligrapher for wedding invitations 
-pay negotiable. 
Call4-4507 
going east on 1-80? Could you drop me off at penn. exit24? (penn state) can leave anytime after 1 pm wed. $ Rachel X4832 
########################### 
HELP ME!I!!I 
My ride has cancelled and I 
desparately need a ride to the 
Washington, D.C. area. I am very 
flexible about dates and can drive 
stick/snow. If you are looking for 
someone to help pay gas and tolls, 
call Sean at 1·8839 or 4·411 0. 
########################### 

anyone interested in singing, play­ing an instrument, or acting in the freshman class mass on April 10, please contact Brian at x1799 
FOR RENT 
1, 2 & 3 BEDROOM HOMES FOR RENT. NEAR CAMPUS. 1BDRM: $225. MO., 2 BDRM: $325. MO. AVAIL. NOW. GILLIS PROPER· TIES 272-6306 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES SECURITY SYSTEM ALL APPLIANCES 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS 232 2595 
SPRING BREAK TIME SHARE Orlando, Florida $700 -sleeps 8 bars, pools, lake 5 minutes from Disney call X2348 or X4508 
Castle Pt. Apt. for Rent Summer, 94-95 sch yr. Fully Applianced, some furnish. 2 bdrm. 3 rmmates $200.00/mnth Call273-6318 
FOR SALE 
2 lix to PEARL JAM concert Mar 22 • Cleveland will take best offer. Mike x 4116 
..............,.,......................... 
Want to get to Colorado for Spring Break? I have a one way ticket from b'Hare to Denver Stapleton on Sat March 5, 1994 at 6:44p.m. Will take best offer. 
·····································-
Maclnttosh Classic with Image writer for sale. $600 OBO. 273-3920. 
ROW.......ROW......ROW Have your own rowing machine New Concept II Rowing Ergometer $735 from the factory...But yours for 
$650 or B.O. Call4-1507 
2 Bedroom Turtle Creek Townhome available for '94-95. Call Lonnie 272-5622 or Reggie 4-1480. 
TICKETS 

FOR SALE • 1 Round trip ticket to Los Angeles for Spring Break. Call Chris at x4-1069. 
PERSONAL 

ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure couple longs for a newborn to join our family. Please call Nancy and Jerry 1-800-272·581 0. 
I need a tutor for freeman's organic chem class. I will pay well. call bridget at x3622 
Desperate for ride to FLORIDA for Spring Break. Orlando Area. Will pay gas, tolls and buy beer on arrival. Call Matthew x3695 
Finally the most random quotes of the SLF committee. To keep with 
the randomness, these are in no particular order. 
·I just go a mouthful of hair! -They're such poor white trash! -Before the night is through, I will touch Charles' pants! -Oh pants, I thought you said penis! -Yep, that ought to do it. -Sumo I -What, I look like Jabba the Hutt?l -Who's that Molly Davis girl? -Michael probably thought: Well, she didn't wear pantyhose for mel -Absolutely no redeeming qualities, then teach COREl 
More to come, could you just pee your pants! -S.S. 
SUMMER JOBS -ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS. PRES­TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786· 8373 
Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH FOR SPRING BREAK-WILL PAY! CALL ELIZABETH 284-4320 
SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! Free Food Night on Wednesday, March 2 at 7:30 at Senior Bar!! 
Free Pizza! Free Pizza! SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! 
If you "Wanna be sedated" call X2569 and share with us your 
RamonesCD. 

2 WALSH WOMEN need Spring Break ride to & from ORLANDO area Lori x42597 Maria x42627 
Need ride from Cleveland to NO after break. Call Jill x2732 
BADIN 4 QUAD, THE WILDEST 
SECTION ON CAMPUS! 
Professional couple seek to adopt a newborn baby. Will give your child all the opportunities you would want for him/her, particularly love, guid· ance and support. We live in the suburbs of an East Coast City. We are active people who love dogs and children but sadly cannot bear our own children. Inquiries should be forwarded to Mr. Charles Rice at 219·237·0904. 
********************•·················· 
HEYX4022­I HAVE YOUR BIKE LOCK KEY. YOU CAN'T HAVE IT BACK. SUCK ITUPI 
....................,..................... 
The List to Beat All Lists SAW-THE TOP 15! 

1. 
We are driving down Mahatma Gandhi Road. 

2. 
Did you know that 6000 people can sit under the Banyan tree? 3.Welcerm to Chiner. 


4. 
Any doubts? 

5. 
I just don't like dead body Ganges water dripped on me. 


6. 
The Vedas are four in number. 

7. 
I'm running on 4 hours of sleep and 3 pounds of rice. 

8. 
If you work hard, you get a boner. 9.Naan,naan,Naan,naan. 



1
0. See Dick put gas in the tank, See Dick smoke a cigarette, see Dick blow up the bus. 

11. 
How 'bout a Ting Tao 

12. 
Random Guy 

13. 
I hate Tea, Tea is gross. 

14. 
Deny Mahenna 


15. 
The willage is a node on the nexxus of Indian ciwilisation. 


PJ. Hope you can work things out over break. Good luck!! -OINK OINK 
Yahweh· Where's my pop tart?? Watch out for that body mice!! 
Bok!l! 
Carp Boy Lives! 
Tricia Robin Hood ­Smile ·it will all be OK!!! =) 

To the guy sitting across from me: 
Hi there. From the girl sitting across from you. 

~-------~ 
. ,. ,.... . -' 
page 11

Wednesday, March 3, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
..___ I I I 
j 
I 
l 
ATTENTION FUTURE LEADERS OF TOMO-RROW 
A FIRESIDE CHAT 
TOPIC: CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT OF THE NEW COLLEGE STUDENT 
SPEAKER: VERGE (BROTHER SAGE) GILLIAM 
MARCH 3 • 12:15-1 :OOPM NOTRE DAME ROOM • LAFORTUNE 
• LUNCH PROVIDED • 

BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 
~­
"-I 
i 
--~ --~~~ 
I 
,I 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS
! I 
l Stnits leads Pacers over Blazers
I 
I 
~ Associated Press 
r I 
Rik Smits had 24 points and 13 rebounds, his fifth straight
' 
game with double figures in
' 
J both, as the Indiana Pacers
' 
ended the Portland Trail Blaz­
I 
ers' six-game winning streak 
' 
Tuesday night, 106-94. I' Reggie Miller scored 20 J points for the Pacers, who have J won three straight games, eight 
I 
' 
in a row at home and 13 of 15 overall. Indiana took control in a wild
' 
I third quarter when the Blazers 
' 
I were called for two technical fouls and had their radio ana­' I lyst, Mike Rice, ejected from press row by referee Steve 
' ~ 
Javie. The Pacers wiped out Port­'I land's last lead, 51-50, with a 
I 
' 
Softball 
continued from page 16 
''I've been working hard mentally, focusing on every at­bat," commented Hayes. ''I'm working for the present at-bat, trying to forget about my last trip to the plate or one in the 
Housing 
continued from page 16 
I 
dorm life, and because I'm not going to break the rules. But if 
the rule wasn't in place ...
I 
"It's just that the lifestyle we lead would be a lot easier if we 
' 
' l had a quite place to go and a I place where we could cook our own food."
' 
I 
In rare cases an athlete will give up their scholarship to live off-campus. 
Diver Sean Hyer gave up his partial scholarship to live at Lafayette Apartments, but he 
admits he is one of only a few who would give up money and certainly didn't feel the need to move off for more privacy. 
"You don't here anyone telling all their friends they live next to a swimmer," said Hyer. "But if it was a football player you could see where there would be a problem." 
Conboy admits there are cer­tainly valid reasons for allowing student-athletes to live off-cam­pus. 
"A lot of athletes need to get away from the notoriety," said 
10-0 run that included a tech­nical on Cliff Robinson, who led the Blazers with 17 points. Robinson objected when a foul call on Dale Davis was changed to a blocked shot, and Rice was ejected after complaining to Javie. 
The Pacers put together an 8­0 run late in the period, which ended with Indiana ahead 81­
70. During that run, Portland coach Rick Adelman was called for another technical. 
Hawks 102, Timberwolves 99 

Danny Manning, in his home debut for Atlanta, hit a 12-foot jumper with eight seconds left, salvaging a victory over come­back-minded Minnesota. 
The Hawks, who led by 28 
future." 

The two game streak came to a quick end, again at the hands of the Tigers, who were sparked by a six-run second inning and coasted to a 10-1 triumph, evening Battersby's young career record at 1-1. 
Despite the failure to make a dent against other top-ranked competition, the Irish remained 
Conboy. "In a case of someone like Rocket Ismail or Rick, alumni can find out where they live, which can cause a prob­lem." 
"I can see where the Univer­sity is coming from in wanting to have the rest of the student body involved with the ath­letes," said Hyer. "But when you're off-campus you're living a normal life." 
Burris and Young were in vio­lation of Article 16 in the Na­tional Collegiate Association Manual, the extra-benefits pro­vision. This rule prohibits stu­dent-athletes from receiving benefits unavailable to any other student at the University. 
Often athletes are considered the privileged, but in the case of off-campus housing they are restricted more than the non­athlete. 
"It is not an NCAA violation for an athlete to live off-cam­pus," Conboy said. "But the feeling of the University is that if we are going to be spending the money to house athletes, it's better that the money goes back to the University." 
Burris and Young could be exceptions not amendments to 
BRUNO'S PIZZA 
. :if; 

2 Medium Pizzas 
Unlimited Toppings 
$1200 
BEST PIZZA DEAL IN TOWN! 
CALL NOW!! 
Not to be combined with any other offer. Offer Good Monday-Thursday 
Carry Out/ Deliver.y 273-3890 
points in the third period, still had a 94-69 advantage going into the final quarter, but Chuck Person's 3-pointer with 28 seconds left closed the Tim­berwolves to 100-99. The Hawks then worked the ball to Manning for the game-saving shot. 
Manning scored 21 points on 8-for-13 shooting and Stacey Augmon also had 21 points on 9-for-12 shooting for the Hawks. Christian Laettner scored 21 points for Minnesota, which has lost 11 straight road games. 
Mookie Blaylock set a fran­chise-record for steals in a quarter with six in the first pe­riod. He fmished with a season­high eight to go with 14 points and 10 assists. 
upbeat about the possibilities of their new season. 
"We're still really positive about the season, and we're convinced it will be an exciting year," stated Hayes. 
The Irish will be in action again March 3-5 when they travel to College Station, TX for the Texas A&M Aggie Invita­tional. 
the housing issue, because they have exhausted their eligibility. 
"You look at second semester seniors and you have nothing to hold over them," Conboy said. "You can't threaten playing time." 
More than likely, athletes are living off-campus fully aware of Notre Dame's guidelines. Is the University turning its back or are the athletes slipping through the system? 
"It might happen more than we are aware but that doesn't stop us from going after offend­ers," said Conboy. 
The Burris, Young incident 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Wednesday, March 2, 1994 
Pippen apologizes for outburst after loss 
Associated Press 

DEERFIELD, Ill. 
Chicago Bulls star Scottie Pip­pen apologized to fans Tuesday for making an obscene gesture during the Bulls' latest loss and for angry statements he made after the game. 
"I feel I owe an apology to Bulls fans for my conduct dur­ing the game last night and my comments following the game," Pippen said in a statement. 
"The great majority of Bulls fans have treated me and my teammates with great respect and support through the years," Pippen said. "There was a small minority at last night's game who booed me and my teammates, and I re­acted in an improper way by making an obscene gesture." 
Monday's 89-81 defeat to the visiting Cleveland Cavaliers was the Bulls' fourth loss in the last six games at Chicago Stadium. 
Coach Phil Jackson unsuc­cessfully shuffled the lineup to start rookie Toni Kucoc, who was 0-for-9 in 23 minutes. Pip­pen, who was forced to play 42 minutes as shooting guard, scored only 18 points and was booed several times. 
"The only thing depressing to me is I have been here seven years and have never seen a white guy get booed in the sta­dium," Pippen complained in his postgame outburst. "It seems like when things are bad and the ball is in your hands and you don't score, the fans take it out on you. Toni was 0­for-whatever, and I never heard one fan get on him." 
In Tuesday's statement, Pip­pen backed off his implication of fan racism. 
Jackson said he talked with Pippen at Tuesday's practice and found him much calmer. 
"It was obvious -it was clear frustration," Jackson said. "As the team leader he feels he has to speak out. I think the temptation to lash out and to get even with the fans who were booing got to be too much." 
prompted the athletic depart­ment to send out over 100 let­ters to owners of local condo­miniums in the hopes of avoid­ing another such incident. The letters were designed to stop alumni from giving benefits to athletes, not to tighten the probe of athletes living off-cam­pus. 
~-­

Wednesday, March 2, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Kerrigan's golden image in question Jansen's gold earning him ­
ATTENTION: To be eli1:ible for our local campus drawing for gifts or the national drawing for a FREE car. please fill out both sides of the pledge coupon below and mail or drop by: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. Mezzanine Level. LaFortune Student Center. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219-631-7970)_ 
Have A Spring Break ~ to Remetnber 
Spring Break ... isn·t that one of your favorite th~ngs I? hear? It's that break from the stresses and strams of school, if only for a sho11 time. But just because you're resting your body and mind doesn't mean you can stop thinking! 
BACCHUS and GAMJ\1A encourage you to play it safe during Spring Ureak this year. Whatever your plans are. make sure they include the;,e tips: 
• 
Remember you don't have to be "drunk" to be impaired-even one or two drinks affect your driving skills. 

• 
Drinking, drugs and driving don't mix. 

• 
Take your tun1 being a designated driver--get everyone where they arc going safely. 

• 
Respect other people's right, and your owll--{o choose not to drink. l11ere's plenty of fun to be had without alcohol. 

• 
Respect state laws and campus policies. 

• 
Don't let your friends drive impaired-it's one of the fastest ways to end a friendship. 

• 
Wear your seat belt·-it's your best protection against an impaired driver. 

• 
Ifone ofyour friends drinks to excess to the point of passing out, stay with him/her-make sure they sleep on their side and check their breathing periodically. If you are the least bit concerned, please seek medical attention. Better safe than sorry! 


Play it safe...and sign the pledge. 
Sponsored By: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education ~ Students Against Drunk Driving _ ~ 
lI Have A Spring Break to Remember 
:The BACCHUS Spring Break Pledge: 
I • I promise not to drink and drin.· during Spring Break. 
: or l<.:t any of my friends get behind the wheel impaired. I • I will not ride in a car when the dri\'cr has been : drinking. 
I • I will wear mv seat belt, whether I'm dri\'ing or a
l .
passenger. 
I • I \Yill \\'a!ch out for mv friends. take care of nwself and : have a great Spring B1:eak! . 
I.. I 
1S1gnec 
Wear Your Seat S..1tl ~ 
• 

DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE ! n 
a 
SIGN THE PLEDGE! 
-; 
•~ 


SIGN THE SAFE SPRING BREAK PLEDGE IN SDH AND NDH FEB. 28 & MARl and 2-­YOU CAN POSSIBLY WIN PRIZES AND YOU CAN DEFINITELY HAVE A SAFE BREAK! 
Sponsored by ND Students Against Dn:nk Driving. 
lations at Boston University. 
Even before she was attacked Jan. 6 at the U.S. Figure Skat­ing Championships in Detroit, Kerrigan had promotional con­tracts with Reebok shoes and Campbell soup. As she re­covered from her injuries and as the attack was linked to the entourage of rival skater Tonya Harding, Kerrigan's girl-next­door image -and marketabil­ity -were enhanced. 
She signed a contract worth a reported $2 million with Walt Disney Co. and on Monday she signed a contract to appear in advertisements for Revlon. She is scheduled to host "Saturday Night Uve" on March 12. 
But her image began to change almost minutes after Oksana Baiul of Ukraine edged her for the gold. When she was told, mistakenly, that the medal ceremony had been delayed because Baiul was redoing her makeup, an annoyed Kerrigan was heard on television saying: "Oh, come on. So she's going to get out here and cry again. What's the difference?" 
In interviews in the following days, she said she had skated flawlessly, that Baiul had not, and she questioned the judges for not deducting points for Baiul's mistakes. 
She left Norway before the closing ceremonies to attend a parade at Disney World, even though Disney officials said the parade could have been held another day. 
Johnny Exciter March20 
By NANCY PLEVIN 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. Speedskater Dan Jansen is trading gold for green. 
Back in the United States on Tuesday after winning his first Olympic gold medal in his last Olympic race, the 28-year-old from Greenfield, Wis., is rack­ing up endorsements and de­ciding whether he'll skate one more year. 
"My last chance turned out to be the best," Jansen said at a news conference hosted by the marketing firm representing him. 
Integrated Sports Interna­tional has signed Jansen to en­dorse AT&T, the NFL's line of clothing and Apex shoes and clothes, lSI president Frank Vuono said. 
Gold, silver and bronze coins with a likeness of Jansen also are being marketed for prices ranging from $15 to $800, Vuono said. 
Jansen said he had "no idea" how much he would make from those endorsements and others he is considering and from the many speaking engagements he is lining up. But he said he hopes the financial benefits from his 1,000-meter victory last month in Lillehammer, Norway, would last a long time. 
Jansen said he also plans to continue the motivational 
green from endorsements 
speaking career he began in 1988. "I think I have a good story to tell," he said. 
The skater's gold medal fol­lowed seven previous tries in four Olympics. 
At the 1988 Games in Cal­gary, he fell twice after the death of his sister, Jane Jansen Beres. He came up empty at Albertville in 1992. 
During this year's 500-meter race -five days before the big win-Jansen slipped near the end and fmished out of medal contention. 
"I have shown you don't give up -hang in there," Jansen said. "I've always tried to take the wins and losses with the same amount of dignity." 
The skater also said he planned to establish a Dan Jansen foundation to support leukemia research, recruit young speedskaters and other charities and causes. 
Jansen said he's planning to skate later this month at this year's final World Cup event in the Netherlands and is debat­ing whether to give the sport one last season. 
He said he'll have to decide by May or June when training for 1995 competition gets underway. 
''I'm 28 years old and I won the Olympic gold medal," Jansen said. "Now there's not really anything else I can do." 
10. MCAT Review no longer aDisney World attraction 
9. Prefer Linebacker to Space Mountain 
B. Ice sculpture more challenging than sand castles 
7. Able to line up early for Dead tickets &. Can practice new routes for next Bun Run 
5. Avoid unsightly tan lines 
4. Sleep will be uninterrupted by classes 
3. Able to train for St Pit's Day pub Crawl in South Bend 
2. Refuse to visit state with no accredited universities 
1. Goofy and Mickey don't drink 
Happy 21n, Brian Dewan I Love, Mom, Dad & Kevin 
By KEN GUGGENHEIM 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
She deemed her silver-medal peformance flawless, ques­tioned the scoring by the figure skating judges, and skipped the Olympics' closing ceremonies for a promotional gig at Disney World. 
Has Nancy Kerrigan tar­nished her golden image? 
Sports analysts and public re­lations specialists say she has­n't done herself irreparable harm -at least not yet. 
"Those comments she made were relatively low-key," said Larry Unes, a Chicago-based talent consultant who links celebrities with advertising agencies. "The glow that she left is going to supersede any­thing that is going to be con­strued as negative." 
"I think that Americans are so fascinated by Nancy Kerri­gan and Tonya Harding and the whole Nancy Kerrigan story that she can do no wrong right now," said Kim Bartel, an assistant professor of mass communications and public re­page 14 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 2, 1994 
possible, but it was never comparable 
enough. To fill the roster, the support with 
-Baseball 
Irish coaches had to rely on other schools continued from page 16 large numbers of walk-ons. It in the Big 10 was not uncommon for close to and the Mid­
ball knowledge of both coaches, 
150 freshmen to show up for America the 12 years 
tryouts each year. Conference Kelly and Gallo 
The players of this period that there was headed the 
were "very intelligent and very no reason that Irish baseball coachable," and a few achieved baseball program con­
baseball success beyond Notre couldn't be tained more Dame. Tommy Shields, drafted very competi­downs than in the 15th round by the Boston tive, because 
ups. 
Red Sox in 1986, now plays for we certainlyAs college Baltimore. In 1992, Shields hit have the name 
b a s e b a II Tom Shields 
.302 with 10 home runs and 23 of Notre Dame became more 
doubles for the Orioles. 

going for us specialized, the Notre Dame A lack of scholarships was and the type of program was crippled by the only half of the problem. The individual wholack of early spring practice other half of the problem re­plays baseball 
due to the weather, a lack of volved around the lack of a con­fits very well 
scholarships, and a lack of a ference. Travel time and funds into this envi­conference. 
were limited, so the Irish played ronment," said Jake Kline (with bat) was honored at the end of his coaching career when Cartier Field was As all who have ever resided opponents like Cincinnati, Kelly. renamed for him on May 5, 1975. Kline left big shoes for his successors to fill. in South Bend know, the weath­Dayton, Detroit, Northwestern, Although the son with a 2.39 earned run av-1981-1982 seasons respec­
er in February and March does Wisconsin and perennial pow­Irish baseball program was in erage, Notre Dame had its best tively. Clementz had an un­
not allow for many outdoor 
erhouse Western Michigan that dire need of scholarships and a season in over ten years. blemished 6-0 record in 1982 practices. Frequently, the first could be reached and returned conference, there were several The team finished the season while Valenzuela and Chrysttime the team gets outdoors is from in a day. 
highlights in the years that at 29-8 and, according to re-paced the team at the plate. 
on the annual spring break trip. 
Many of the teams are part of Kelly and Gallo coached. ports Kelly got, would have Unfortunately, the Irish would But even more crippling to a what is now the Midwestern In 1980, Kelly's last team be-gone to the tournament had the not have a winning season in program trying to compete with Collegiate Conference which came his first to finish over NCAA picked one more team. the last five years of Gallo'sthe teams in the Big 10 and the was started in 1979, but Notre .500 while coming a team away For the next two years under seven-year tenure. And when Mid-America Conference was Dame did not join the confer­from an NCAA bid. With players Gallo's tutelage, the Irish re-the 1987 season ended, the the lack of scholarship support. ence until1987. 
like speedster Dan Szajko, co-mained ahead in the win-Joss search for a new coach and a In Kelly and Gallo's tenure, As a coach, Kelly felt more captain Harry Valenzuela with column. Players such as Rick new prominence in the collegefour scholarships were avail­scholarships and a conference his 30 runs batted in, Dave Chryst, Valenzuela, and Mark baseball world began. 
able and they were divided up would have made a difference. Bartish, who hit .422, and Mike Clementz led Notre Dame to 23-Tomorrow: The Pat Murphyto spread the wealth as far as "I felt strongly that given Deasey, who finished the sea-16-1 and 28-15 records for the Years 

YEAR COACH CAPTAIN(S) WINS LOSSES WPCT 
1976 Kelly Mitch Stoltz, Bob Stratta 16 24 .400 1977 Kelly Stan Bobowski 17 26 .395 1978 Kelly Rick Pullano 12 25 .329 1979 Kelly Rick Pullano 14 19 .424 1980 Kelly Dan Voellinger 29 8 .784 1981 Gallo Mike Jamieson 23 16 .588 1982 Gallo Chuck Tasch, Henry Valuenzela 28 15 .651 1983 Gallo Rich Chryst 19 28 .404 1984 Gallo Curt Vuono 24 24 .500 1985 Gallo Jack Moran 26 27 .491 1986 Gallo Tom Shields, Rich Vanthournout 22 28 .440 1987 Gallo None 15 29 .341 
A Llfb. ~lv'b.N TO T!Jb. POOR.. 
It] Are you a single, Catholic woman? 
0 Are you independent and full of life? 
It] Are you committed to a simple lifestyle? 
If you are, call Sr. Margaret Hoffelder (219-422-6675) 
to imagine together how your life and ours might 
join in service to the world's poor and disenfranchised. 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
:::3 
00 

fill out portion below to be eUgible for the Grand Prize.
interested in the 
~~-­


Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships  
Name  
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of  
deadline dates and the Fall application process on  
School  
Tuesday, March 15, 1994  
6:30p.m.  Address  
101 Law School  
City/State/Zip  
Ifyou are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be  
obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date.  Phone  (  )  I  

~~~~~~~~~~~~~------------------------~ 
Wednesday, March 2, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
AND tJot.U, 4 WO~D Fo~ ouR ~EI(OEiaS f~OtJ\ 
1lt€ c~ rz roo~tST. .. 



CALVIN AND HOBBES 
l 'S~W t>.. S\~1--\ ON t\ RESTI\IJRf\1'-lT \XX>R ll-\1\T 51\I\). "No S\-1\RT, NO 'S\\ot.S. 
No S'C:R\l\CE ... 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
BILL WATTERSON 
T\-\t.'i'o \JRo\3i>,\3l'{ SER\ft= '{o\.J W\\\-1 f>­CO\.li<T S\lt'\lv\01--\S. 
c't'I\ON, LE.\'S SEE. 
IF tv\Ot-'1 '«ILL Tf>..KE. US 0\JT ~OR 0\N\'\ER.' 

OF INTEREST
3·2­
DAVE KELLETT 


The Obse~ve~ is Jl\ow hi~iJI\9! Fo~ mo~e iJI\fo~matioJI\ call
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

64 Jordanian port 66 Word on a $1 
bill 67 Hoedown prop 68 Blender setting 69 Blockhead 70"If-You" 
(1929 hit) 71 Game-show group 72 Tom Smothers amusement 73 Courage 
DOWN 
1 Cry like a baby 2Mixed bag 3 Walkie-talkie 
word 4 Leave time 5 Fight souvenir 6 Eastern region 7 One more time 8Anti-D.W.I. 
group 9 Composer of Hitchcock's theme 10 Sounds of satisfaction 11 German coal 
region 12 "Trinity" author 13 Saucy 21 Attack 22 Giraffe kin 26 Taboos 27 Elephant rider, 
perhaps 28 Maine college town 

631-7471.
43 "-Ican help 59 Miss Marple discovery
it!" 48 Sharon's land &o Suffix for stink 50 Completely 61 Waikiki locale DINING HALL 54 Boris 62 Chair part Badenov's boss 
63 Koppel and 
55 Reindeer herder Kennedy 56 Water color 65 Old-fashioned 57 Stable home do 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 



ACROSS 
1 Yahoo 5 Pigeon drop, e.g. 9 Fill one's tank 14 Peace Nobelist 
Myrdal 15 Rival of Martina 16 Busy airport 17 Freud's home 18 Ticked off 19 Client of 
16-Across 20 Princess 
Margaret's ex 23 Queue after a 24 Fishing gear 25 Ended a bout 
early 27 Fishing gear 30 Barbering job 32 Really went for 36 Bakery 
enticement 38 Tide type 40Nephewof 
Caligula 41 1991 Emmy-
winning comic 44 Med. sch. subj. 45 Author Dinesen 46 Davis of "Do the 
Right Thing" 47 Tout's offering 49 Nudnik 51 Highway hazard 52 Uncommon 
sense 53 Music-score abbr. 55 Experimenta­tion station 
581961 Inauguration speaker 
Puzzle by Stanley Newman 
29 Best Actor of '39 31-Work (rock group) 33 Teammate of Robinson and Hodges 34 "To­
human" 35 B12 quantities 37 Photo finish 39 Betraying 
clumsiness 42 "Fantasia" ballerina 

THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION 
WISHES ALL STUDENTS A SAFE AND ENJOYABLE SPRING BREAK 

. I 

~~--~­
[ 
SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, March 2, 1994 
Irish athletes caught in off-campus housing limbo 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN board in charge of athletics and an apartment." rent student-athletes, Bryant maintaining residency in the Sports Ediror student-athletes were again re­There wasn't much noise Young and Jeff Burris. The pair dorm," she said. "If we find out quired to spend their senior made over the issue at the time were living at Oak Hill Condo­that an athlete is not living in It will forever be known as year in the dorms. because senior athletes contin­miniums for at least a month by the dorm then it is turned over 
the Rick Mirer ru1e. "I believe that the University ued to live off-campus against official reports, longer accord­to student affairs. 
In 1992 the former Irish felt that an essential part of the University's wishes. ing to their neighbors. The number of athletes quarterback was part of a Notre Dame is that the students "I would say a great majority Would Burris and Young have forced back into the dorms by group of senior scholarship ath­get to interact with the ath­of the senior football players been caught if a New Jersey the University is unknown. But letes allowed to live off-campus letes," said Associate Athletic have off-campus places," said alumnus had not allowed the the number that would live off, by Notre Dame. It was a trial Director Missy Conboy. "Also, one Irish football player who pair to live rent free? if allowed, is vast. run, and of the 70 scholarship we are concerned with the ath­wished to remain anonymous. The University does enforce "I think a lot of players would athletes eligible, 40 moved off. letes graduating, and on a cold "They still have their dorm its policy against scholarship move off if the University al­
But Mirer graduated and the South Bend day any student is rooms but don't live there." athletes living off campus ac­lowed it," said junior football trial run with him. The follow­more likely to go to class if he is The issue was dead until the cording to Conboy. player Mark Zataveski. "I am ing year the experiment was in the dorm then if he has to recent trouble involving former "We rely on the rectors to de­not moving off because I like ruled a failure by the faculty warm up a car and drive from Irish football players, but cur-termine if an athlete is not 
see HOUSING I page 12 
Irish softball splits four at Missouri tournatnent 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Hayes. Assistant Sports Ediror Hayes may have been the one mem­ber of the Notre Dame lineup who did 
Following a four game split in their not show the ill effects of the winter opening weekend of the season, the No. layoff, going 7-11 at the plate over the 17 Notre Dame softball team may be weekend. thankful it was able to play at all. However, the rest of the Irish were 
Getting to the Mizzou Round Robin not given much time to ease into the Softball tournament hosted by the No. season, as Missouri pounded out six 20 Missouri Tigers proved a difficult hits and scored six runs on Notre Dame task in itself, as the Irish had to over­ace Terri Kobata in the team's first come inclement weather that hindered contest. The Irish could only respond not only their flight to Missouri but also with six hits, two by Hayes, and one their opportunity to play once they had run, scored by Hayes on a double by arrived. shortstop Christy Connoyer. 
Hazardous traveling conditions Instead of mourning the setback, the forced Friday's scheduled games to be Irish recovered in strong fashion, postponed and Indiana University to sweeping Northern Iowa. Freshman withdraw. In order to get the remain­Joy Battersby won a 6-4 decision in her ing games in, tournament officials first collegiate start, receiving support moved the competition inside to the from first baseman Stephanie Pinter, school's Hearne's fieldhouse. who was 3-3 with two RBis. 
The rescheduling and delays were Kobata also responded from a rare apparent in Notre Dame's play, as the bad outing in strong fashion, throwing team was not sharp against a strong a two-hit shutout that included 14 Tiger squad, falling by 6-1 and 10-1 strikeouts as the Irish blanked margins. However, the Irish were able Northern Iowa 7-0. Right fielder Jenna to recover, posting a sweep of Northern Knudson had two hits in a varied Notre Iowa 6-4 and 7-0. Dame attack, but Hayes again set the 
"Between the conditions and it being pace, going 2-3 with an RBI. our first weekend, we were still a little rusty," explained Irish catcher Sara 
see SOFTBALL I page 12 


Kelly, Gallo steer baseball team through hard times after Kline 
By JENNY MARTEN legend. There's no question record at Notre Dame. Senior Sports Writer about that," said Kelly. "It got to be when I was out­"It certainly was a challenge. doors I felt I should be in here, 
The following is the third ar­It was quite a change for the and when I was in here I felt I ticle of a five part series chron­players, obviously, because should be out there. Because of icling the history of baseball at Jake had been here so long and the growth of RecSports, it be­
Notre Dame: every coach establishes their came impossible to do both jobs way of doing things, and I had and do justice to both jobs," ex­
NOTRE DAME 
been out of coaching for some plained Kelly. time." And so he turned over the
~.AS. ~.~::!~l!O~·=
·E.rc; As the director of recreation­reigns to Larry Gallo, one of his Tom Kelly al sports, Kelly had been work­assistant coaches, who headed 1 s 9 2 _ found out just ing for the Irish athletic depart­the team from 1981-1987 with TRADITION how hard it can ment for some time so coaching a record of 157-167-3. Gallo be when he accepted the posi­became just another re­was a capable coach and well­tion of head baseball coach sponsibility. liked by the players, so the de­after Clarence "Jake" Kline's Coaching and running the cision to leave coaching was 
retirement in 1975. recreational sports program easy, said Kelly. "Everybody associated Notre concurrently led Kelly to turn Despite the effort and base-
Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame SID 
in his spikes after the 1980 sea­
Dame baseball with Jake and Mark Clementz (1982-1984) led the Irish on the mound in three everybody loved him. He's a son with an 88-102-1 career see BASEBALL I page 14 straight seasons with the lowest earned run average on the team. 

I 
Precious Medals 
U.S. Olympic heroes Dan Jansen and Nancy Kerrigan are capitalizing on their fame in the 
r:{").O.C) 
endorsement arena. 'Z:XY see page 13 
Lillehammer'94 
Inside SPORTS 

Double-Double Indiana Pacers' center Rik Smits notched his fifth consecutive double­double to lead his team over Portland. see page 12 

Poetry in Moten Syracuse guard Lawrence Moten's three point play propelled the Orange over lowly Miami in the Big East. see page 10 


