
370 to end years at Saint Mary's 
By LAURA FERGUSON Saint Mary's News Editor 
Nearly 370 Saint Mary's students will be awarded degrees at the Colleges 147th annual commencement tomorrow. 
The ceremonies, in celebration of the Sesquicentennial of Saint Mary's, will begin at noon in the Courtyard of LeMans Hall. Angela Athletic Facility is the rain site for this year's commencement. 
According to Maureen Manier, director of communications, this commencement will be special because it is the sesquicentennial commencement. 
"A lot of attention has been paid to every detail to make it a festive occasion to commemo­rate the sesquicentennial," said Manier. "For example at the end we will be singing "Spirits Taking Flight" a song specially commissioned for the College's sesquicentennial. 
Approximately, 230 Bachelor of Arts, 70 Bachelor of Science, 55 Bachelor of Business Administration, 9 Bachelor of Fine Arts, and 3 Bachelor of Music degrees will be conferred to the class of 1994. 
According to Teresa Marcy, director of Academic Affairs at Saint Mary's, this year's graduation class is slightly smaller than previ­ous years. 
Giving the commencement address will be Lynne Cheney, former chair of the National Endowment for the Humanities. Cheney will also receive an honorary doctorate of Humanities from Saint Mary's.Cheney is a well-known champion of the humanities and will speak at Saint Mary's to celebrate the Colleges liberal arts tradition-a tradition Cheney has devoted her career to preserving and advancing. 
see SMC/ page 4 
. . . . 
.. .·'all);>.·. ·..• ncement·...:Gou.Pt (if L~rn~;:vtS 
. . Ang:eta Athlekc Facftity) 2 p'~ ·.... · :30 p.m.JJaiversity Reception. ·· Center for Coo(injing Education Auditorium 5 p.m. to $:30 p.m. Baccataureate Mass. · 

Friday, May 13, 1994• Vol. XXVI No. 133 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Beginning of the end for '94 graduates 
Over 2,300 will bid farewell to ND 
By SARAH DORAN News Editor 
Over 2,300 Notre Dame students will receive degrees at the University's 149th Commencement ceremonies Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center (JACC). 
Ireland's head of government, Albert Reynolds, will address the graduates. He and ten others, including humorist and syndicated newspaper columnist Erma Hornbeck, Marian Wright Edelman, president of the Children's Defense Fund, and John Welch, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the General Electric Company, will receive honorary degrees from the University. 
Degrees will be conferred on 1,785 undergrad­uates, 150 master's and doctoral students in the Graduate School, 214 master's degree students in the College of Business Administration, and 185 students in the Law School. 
Jonathan Fay, the 1994 valedictorian, will deliver the valedictory address. 
Those unable to see the ceremonies in person can watch them free of charge on television in DeBartolo Hall (Rooms 101, 117, and 118), the Oak Room in the South Dining Hall, and the main lounge of LaFortune Student Center. The commencement telecast will begin at 1:30 p.m. 
During the ceremony Sidney Callahan, profes­sor of psychology at Mercy College and colum­nist for Commonweal magazine, will accept the University's Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious award given to American Catholics. Notre Dame has presented the award annually since 1883. 
Other recipients of University honorary degrees at commencement include: 
see NO/ page 8 

Fay to deliver ND valedictory 
By JASON WILLIAMS Associate News Editor 
Jonathan Fay will take a little more than a degree away from Notre Dame when he graduates Sunday. 
After achieving a 3.983 grade point average, Fay, who dou­ble-majored in aerospace and mechanical engineering, was named valedictorian of this year's graduating class. 
He said he will attempt to sum what his Notre Dame edu­cation has meant to him when he delivers his speech at com­mencement exercises Sunday. 

"My basic point will be that all of us should reflect on our past experiences at Notre Dame and then apply what we have learned about ourselves so we can learn about the future," he said. 
Fay will attend Stanford University next fall and hopes to receive a PhD in aerospace engineering. Upon fmishing his graduate studies, Fay plans to work in research or industry for some time before returning to the classroom to teach. 
Fay is the recipient of a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship and has been honored by the Sigma Gamma Tau and Tau Beta Pi engineering societies. He was a NASA undergraduate research fellow last summer and was se­lected as the year's winner of Notre Dame's Zahm Prize for Aeronautical Engineering. 
A Keenan Hall resident, Fay was co-captain of the tuba sec­tion of Notre Dame's marching band this year. 

Adams named SMC valedictorian 
By ELIZABETH REGAN Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's senior Catherine Michel Adams, achieving a 
3.973 grade point average, has been named the valedictorian of the class of 1996. 
Adams, an art major with a concentration in art history and a Women's Studies minor has always taken her studies seri­ously. 
"I came here with the delib­erate intent of being valedicto­rian. Throughout my four years of pursuing this goal, however, a debate has erupted within me on the value of this intent. As a feminist, I wonder if this delib­erate pursuit of an award based on the concept of hierar­chical structures is ethical. I will not deny that I am happy to graduate ftrst in my class, but I also will not deny that this debate will always haunt me," she said. 

Adams, from Louisville, KY., was unable to fulfill her goal of attending an all women's boarding high school but care­fully selected an all women's college. 
"I had seen that women's col­leges in general have done quite well in statistics concern­ing colleges," she said. "When my mother and I visited Saint Mary's, she fell in love with it." 
Upon coming to Saint Mary's, Adams discovered that she was very "left wing for this cam­pus." 
"I always had assumed that a lot of people felt like me and on this campus this wasn't true. Coming here made me question a lot of biases and beliefs and how we construct our beliefs," she continued. 
Adams was the recipient of the SISTAR grant last summer. She worked with assistant English professor Laura Haigwood on her research en­titled "Elizabeth Allen Starr: Romantic Roots of a Woman Centered Art Pedagogy." 
"This was the must fulfulling academic experiences that I could have done at this or any other college," said Adams. "In an age when universities really focus on publication, I found this commendable on the part of Saint Mary's," Adams contin­ued. 
After graduation, Adams plans to move to France to study literature at the University of Rouen. 

Friday, May 13, 1994

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
.. 
INSIDE COLUMN 

No, the laughing never did stop 
Tito Fuentes laughed out loud as we pulled out of Rochester, N.Y., around five that Thursday morning in July. 
Who pretends they can trust a trip-weary Subaru with somewhere in the neighborhood of 112,947 miles on it? Who drives from New York to Montana for less than a ________ week of fishing? Who thinks they can get by for three weeks on a hundred bucks each? 
Tito -known for his striking resemblance to the famous baseball player -graduated in May and had a teaching job lined up that fall. The rest of us had one more year in school. We all had a dream. 
We were laughing, but not at all that. We were laughing at those suckers we knew still stuffing envelopes for $7 an hour, or cutting grass in the 90 degree heat. Most of all we were laughing about the guy who graduated two months before and was already on Wall Street ana­lyzing fmances or something. And about the 22­year-old spending the better part of July plan­ning his wedding. 
Hell, we knew better than that. We weren't going to take ourselves that seriously. Not yet, right? We had three glorious weeks ahead, weeks of baseball, trout fishing and, most importantly, heavy drinking. 
That, in a word; was the dream. Oh, we said we'd get to Montana by Sunday, then wake up the trout at the crack of dawn. We claimed we'd buy Kroger bread and lunch meat instead of the pricey Big Macs. Sure, sure. But that wasn't our dream. 
No, what we really wanted to do was spend a day drinking in Wrigley's bleachers, spitting sunflower seeds at the center fielder. Then we'd meander across the plains, taking in Rushmore and Custer's Battlefield before cruising into Missoula late Tuesday. 
We knew we'd spend too many late nights shooting pool at The Bodega, the town's best watering hole. We knew the fish would be bask­ing in the noon sun before we'd even wet a line. That was the dream. 
All of it was a realization, really. Without a hint of sentiment, we knew one of us would be gone the next year, and, well, things wouldn't be the same. There was no other option. This trip had to be taken. 
For us, it seemed like the last opportunity to be stupid and get away with the excuse that we're college students. The last time we could blow 70 bucks on the first day of a trip buying stadium beers in dissolving cups. 
At least this was the best chance. We could do all those things without worrying about getting back by Monday. Or wondering if the house is safe and the dog is fed. Without the kids wailing in the back seat of the MiniVan. 
We'd arrived at that point that everyone seems to reach when changes are coming fast, bearing down on you like a hungry grizzly. For some, it's no big deal. For others, it's a time o looking back, of reflection, emotion and tears. Not us. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Sarah Doran Scott Mendenhall Katie Murphy Production John Lucas 
Sports Jackie Moser Jason Kelley Mike Norbut Accent 
Mary Good Viewpoint Graphics SuzyFry Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction righ!S are reserved. 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 


McDermott to leave ND for Uganda 
Senior Class fellow Father Tom McDermott, director of special projetcs for Campus Ministry, is leaving the University this summer to assume responsibility for a parish in Ginga, Uganda. The parish, which is only a few years old, is part of the growing African community of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Father McDermott, who is a graduate of Notre Dame, has worked at Campus Ministry and been a resident of Morrissey Hall since 1990. He also was part of a parish in Granger from 1979-82. He has worked in Africa twice 
Johnson named a Beinecke Scholar 
Notre Dame junior Bruce Johnson is one of just 16 students nationwide to be awarded a 1994 Heinecke Memorial Scholarship. A music major from Westerville, Ohio, Johnson will receive a $2,000 grant for his senior year at Notre Dame and $15,000 per year for each of his first two years of graduate study. The Edwin, Frederick and Walter Heinecke Memorial Scholarship Program was established in 1970 by the Sperry and Hutchinson Co. to honor the three brothers, who served for many years as executives with the firm. The scholarships are awarded to outstanding college juniors who plan to pur­sue graduate degrees. 
Kelly winner of a Mellon Fellowship 
Thomas Kelly, a Notre Dame senior philosophy major from Richton Park, Ill., has won a 1994 Andrew W. Mellon Fellowship in Humanistic Studies from The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation. The Mellon fellowships are awarded to college seniors and recent graduates of outstanding promise, with the objec­tive of encouraging and assisting them to join the humanities faculties of American colleges and universi­ties. More than 1,300 fellowships have been awarded in the 12 years of the program, and some 120 former fel­lows now hold faculty positions, while more than 800 are working toward their doctorates. Kelly and 79 other 1994 Mellon fellows will receive $12,500 stipends as well as tuition and fees at any U.S. or Canadian gradu­ate school. 
Smith recepient of a Cottrell award 
Bradley Smith, assistant professor of chemistry and biochemistry at Notre Dame, is one of 17 young scien­tists nationwide to receive a $50,000 Cottrell Scholars award from Research Corporation. A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1991, Smith will use the award to develop artificial drug carriers to facilitate delivery of anti-viral and anti-cancer drugs. His work also will examine new approaches to alleviating drug re­sistance. Smith is a native of Australia who earned his bachelor's degree in 1983 from the University of Melbourne and his doctorate in 1988 from Pennsylvania State University. He was a postdoctoral fellow in 1988­89 at Oxford University and in 1990-91 at Columbia University. In addition to his research activities, he teaches courses in organic chemistry and organic struc­ture elucidation. Based in Tucson, Ariz., Research Corporation was founded in 1912 by Frederick Gardner Cottrell and is devoted to the advancement of academic science and technology. The Cottrell Scholars awards are given to young scientists who seek to excel in both research and teaching. 
before-as a Holy Cross seminarian in Uganda from 1977-78 and as a priest in Kenya from 1982-90. His experience with international Holy Cross community has showed him "the importance of the whole world and that the children of Mishawaka, East Africa and India are all equally important to us," he said. The Congregation of the Holy Cross is represented around the world in countries which include Chile, Brazil, Peru, Africa, Canada, Bangladesh, India, France, Haiti and Italy. 
Wiltrout awarded writing scholarship 
Katie Wiltrout, a junior American studies major from Macungie, Pa., has been awarded the 1994-1995 Red Smith Writing Scholarship at the University of Notre Dame. Active in journalism since high school, Wiltrout was the 1993-94 managing editor of Scholastic, Notre Dame's 127-year-old campus magazine, and will be the publication's editor-in-chief during the next academic year. She will work as an intern this summer at Notre Dame Press, the largest Catholic university press in the world. Funded by private and corporate donations, the scholarship is a memorial honoring Pulitzer Prize-win­ning sportswriter Red Smith, a 1927 Notre Dame gradu­ate. Smith was a columnist for The New York Times at the time of his death in 1982. The scholarship, adminis­tered by the Department of American Studies, is award­ed annually to an outstanding student writer at Notre Dame. Wiltrout is the daughter of Frank and Nancy Wiltrout. 
Blankenstein wins first Dooley award 
Notre Dame graduate student Volker Blankenstein, who recieved his undergraduate degree from the University last year, is the first recipient of the Thomas Dooley Service Award. The Award, which is sponsored by the St, Joseph's County Alumni Club, sponsors a pre­med graduate on a year of service at the St. Joseph's Medical Outreach Center. Blankenstein volunteered at the center during his undergraduate years and has con­tinued to do so this year. The St. Joseph's County Alumni Club also sponsors six students in summer ser­vice projects, in addition to their other community ser­vice activities. 
Castellino to speak at graduation 
Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science and Kleiderer-Pezold professor of Biochemistry at Notre 
Dame, will recieve an honorary degree from the University of Waterloo and address College of Science Graduates at convocation ceremonies May 27. Founded in 1927, the University of Waterloo is located in Ontario, Canada, and has an enroll­ment of some 25,000 students. Castellino joined the Notre Dame fac­


ulty in 1970 and has guided the College of Science since 1979. His research focuses on the mechanism by which the human body forms and dissolves blood clots, work that bears directly in the treatment of heart disease, strokes and hemophilia. A elected fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Castellino recently recieved the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute's MERIT Award. 
INDIANA Weather 
conditions and high temperatures 
ILL. 
NATIONAL Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, May 13. 
FRONTS: 
.............................. ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES VIa Auocflllfld Prea 
C 1994 Aceu-Weather, Inc. 
SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

Atlanta  83  79  Denver  54  19  New York  83  78  
Boca Raton  89  76  Houston  89  76  Philadelphia  78  73  
Boston  65  58  Los Angeles  82  76  Phoenix  97  92  
Chicago  78  67  Miami  90  86  St. Louis  87  76  
Coiombus  67  65  Minneapolis  67  63  San Francisco  59  41  
Dallas  56  50  New Orleans  79  75  Seattle  50  45 

Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
C1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Friday, May 13, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

ND Stadium to undergo $50 million expansion 
lNG

By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sporrs Editor 
The University gave alumni and Irish fans their field of dreams, finalizing the plans for expansion of Notre Dame Sta­dium by 21,000 seats by the 1997 season. 
Notre Dame's Board of Trustees approved expansion of the existing structure at a meeting last Friday. New seats will be added to the existing structure, supported by an exterior wall that will encase the original stadium. 
"The need for additional seats has never been an issue," said Andrew McKenna, chair­man of the Board of Trustees. "Alumni in particular have become increasingly frustrated by the lack of opportunities to return to campus for football games. What was needed, how­ever, was a plan of expansion which would not interfere with the rapid academic advance­ments being made by the University and which, in fact, would be capable of contribut­ing to academic and student life needs." 
The estimated price tag for the endeavor is $50 million 
Sean Arthurs Jason Baca Eoin Beirne Jeffrey Brady Ken Bugajski Stephen Camilleri Vincent Casingal Richard Christenson Benjamin Dobson Matthew Fitz Kevin Fleming Matthew Fries Dreyfus Guient Aaron Hoover 
Expansibh 1~ill 
ouf' a wall much li 
with the funds primarily com­ing from issuance of bonds. Notre Dame executive vice 

16 Years Later... 
Howard Paul Lanse 
ND Class of 1994 
Congratulations and 
Mom, Dad, Ellen, Alison, Abbey, 
U.P. and the Grandmothers 
president Father E William Beauchamp said expansion ef­forts should not hinder fund raising in other areas. 
The Irish will continue to play at the stadium during the 1995 and 1996 seasons when the bulk of construction will take place. A new press box, score­board and renovations to the concession areas and rest rooms are also included in the plan. 
The 59, 075 stadium is seen as a bastion of college football tradition but the board said that few traditionalists stepped forward to oppose expansion. 
''I'm a traditionalist myself and this was not a decision that was arrived at easily," said Beauchamp. "But certainly among the alumni, we believe there was great support for 
Congratulations Cavanaugh 
Seniors! 
Paul Ingalls 
Kevin Jackson Andrew Kiel Jason Konesco Eric Kunkel Gregory Louder Jo~eph Magyar Peter McAleer Frank McGehee Ryan Miller Timothy Mooney Brett Moraski Peter Morrill Theodore Peterson Patrick Robinson James Riley Leshane Saddler Eugene Sheikh Karl Smith Jarvis Tait Sawaya Thomas Sean Trimber Matthew Umhofer Robert Vedra Adam Ward Edmund Weiss Jay Yurkiw 
Special Congratulations and Thanks to Vinny Sanchez for your service to the dorm as Assistant Rector 
Best of Luck to the Final Male Graduating Class of Cavanaugh Hall! 
• 
'-------''----'""--__j 

this." 
The final vote by the trustees remains confidential but McKenna hinted towards a a quad between the stadium and DeBartolo. Additional parking for the estimated 7,000 vehicles will be built north of campus near Douglas road. 
"It will be a much more at­tractive area," said Beauchamp. 
"An environmental national champion," added McKenna. 
Beauchamp said that student seating would remain the same, with seniors and gradu­ate students starting at the 50 yard-line trickling to freshman in the northwest corner of the endzone. 
The board discussed various ways to fund the project, set­tling on bonds to avoid endan­gering other University fund­raising efforts. Notre Dame used similar debt financing to build the graduate housing east of campus. 
The bond will be paid over 30 years to finance the stadium because of expected revenue. 
"If .you build a classroom, a classroom doesn't generate revenue," said Beauchamp. "But stadiums and residence halls do. The generated rev­enue can pay ofT the bond." 
Selling the 80,000 seats for the current price of $28 apiece generates $2.24 million, more 


page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 13, 1994 
torate of Fine Arts. Krainik is president of the Congregation South Bend community busi­tion at the College including well respected for both her of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, nessman and forever vice chair dean of students, vice president 
SMC expert fiscal management of and Father Claude Grou, supe­of the Board of Regents will be for fiscal affairs, vice president 
continued from page 1 
Catherine Adams is the vale­dictorian for the Saint Mary's class of 1994. Adams is a art major with a concentration in art history and a minor in Women's Studies and was the recipient of a Student Independent Study and Assisted Research grant last summer. 
Honorary degrees will also be conferred upon eleven digni­taries They include: 
• 
Gwendolyn Brooks, a Pulitzer Prize winning poet, will be awarded an honorary doc­torate of letters. She is consid­ered one of the most influential poets of the twentieth century and is a member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters and has been honored with the Shelly Memorial Award by the Poetry Society of America. 

• 
Associate professor of theol­ogy at Fordham University, Elizabeth Johnson will be hon­ored for her contributions to the intellectual life of the American Catholic church and other Christian communities. Johnson, who was the 1993 Madeleva Lecturer at Saint Mary's College, is known for her refusal to abandon tradition in her attempt to connect femi­nist and classical theology. 

• 
Ardis Krainik, the General Director of the Lyric Opera of Chicago, will be awarded a doc-



To Our Graduating Students: 
The Office of University Computing extends it heanfelt thanks for your hard work and dedicated service in our computer clusters, instructional programs, and special projects. 
Congratulations and Best Wishes for Your Continued Success! 
Office of Universify Computing • Universify of Notre Dame 
Now looking for progressive students 
Contact: 
Ed Rhoden 
Manager 416 N. Michigan South Bend 234-3215 
the opera as will as for her in­fluence on the company's repertory, which includes a bal­ance of standard, innovative and contemporary works. 
• 
President of Spelman College Johnetta Cole will be honored with a doctorate of let­ters for her contributions to the education of women. Spelman College is the oldest and the leading liberal arts college for African-American women and Cole is widely regarded as the nation's leading spokesperson on women's education. 

• 
Blandena Cardenas Ramirez, former director of the American Council on Education's Office of Minorities in Higher Education, will be recognized with an honorary doctorate of laws. Ramirez, throughout her career, has exhibited leadership in the ef­fort to achieve equal access to education. In addition, she was the first Hispanic to serve on the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. 

• 
Archbishop Rembert Weakland of Milwaukee will not only receive an honorary doc­torate of humanities but will also be the homilist for the bac­calaureate mass. Archbishop 


rior general of the Congregation of the Iloly Cross will also both be recognized with honorary degrees. 
O'Brien, president of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross since 1989, led discussion between the College and the Congregation which resulted in the recent signing of the historic agreement of cor­porate reorganization. 
Grou is being honored both for his contribution to the con­gregation and for the congre­gation's long-time relationship with Saint Mary's. 
• 
Bruno Schlesinger, profes­sor of hurnanistic studies at Saint Mary's will be honored with a doctorate of humanities. Schlesinger is the founder of the Humanistic Studies pro­gram which has brought na­tional recognition to Saint Mary's. 

• 
Also receiving an honorary doctorate of humanities is Mary Louise Gorno, Saint Mary's class of 1972. This degree rec­ognizes Gorno as a member of the College's Board of Regents and vice president of Leo Burnett Advertising Agency, one of world's largest agencies. 

• 
Jerry Hammes, a prominent 


awarded an honorary doctorate of laws at this year's corn­rnencernent. Hammes is also the 1983 recipient of the Saint Mary's President's Medal. 
This year's Presidential Medal award winners are Sister Vasil Anthony O'Flynn, class of 1946 and current assistant to the vice president of college rela­tions, and Portia Prebys, class of 1966 and director of the Saint Mary's Rome program. Both medals will be awarded at th 
e commencement exercises. 

O'Flynn's career as an admin­istrator with the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and at Saint Mary's College, spans nearly 50 years. She has held almost every senior posi­for campus affairs and acting vice president of college rela­tions. 
Prebys has been affiliated with the Horne program from its inception, first as a faculty member and later as director. She has been active in the Association of American College and University Programs in Italy, serving as president, and as a member of the Board of the Fulbright Commission in Italy. 
Also, the Board of Trustees will award the Sesquicentennial Trustee Medal to a member of the Saint Mary's community. This will be the first time this honor has been bestowed upon anyone. 
cerns of women and the sup­port for the expansion of their involvement in the Church. 
• Sister Catherine O'Brien, 
ministries sensitivity to the con-
111••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••1111 
'f:ountry j{arvester Presents 
''Jl Co{{ection ofMemories" 
IRISH,.VILLAGE 
Authentic wood replicas of Notre Dame Buildings 
The Vlllag~ Is Growing! 


We are pleased to announce additions to our collection of Notre Dame Buildings: Rockne Memorial, Fisher Hall, Farley Hall, Breen-Phillips Hall, Sorin Hall, Alumni Hall, Lyons Hall, Zahm Hall, Badin Hall, School ofArchitecture 
%e Country Jlarvester 
La1'ortune Student Center Lower Levef (219) 631-6714 

I 
i 
i 
~ 
l 
1 
-~ 
Friday, May 13, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 



Trustees choose golf course site for new dorms 
By JASON WILLiAMS 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame's Board of Trustees has decided to put on a building juggling act now to make the University run smoother later. 
Foremost, two new men's res­idence halls will be built on land currently occupied by the back-nine of the University's Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
The University will also con­vert Grace Hall, currently one of the largest men's dorms on campus, into an administrative building. Meanwhile, the 115­year-old Main Administration Building will undergo a major renovation, anticipated to re­quire approximately two years to complete. 
"Right now our administra­tive offices are desperately short of space," said Dennis Moore, director of Notre Dame's Public Relations and Information. "Making this move will mean a much more effi­cient way of doing things." 
Construction of the new halls, each of which will house ap­proximately 275 men. is ex­pected to begin in April 1995, with occupancy scheduled for the fall of 1996. These new halls will be the first men's res­idences built by the University in more than 25 years, since the 1968-69 construction of Grace and Planner Halls. 
The new halls will accommo­date the displaced student 

The Notre Dame Golf Course and Pro Shop 
Distinctive Golf Apparel & Equipment With Exclusive Notre Dame Logos 
Congratulations Seniors!! 

(219) 631-6425 
The Golf Shop At Notre Dame "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 

The Observer congratulates 1993· 1994 News Editor Meredith McCullough on her graduation, and wishes her luck in Chile. 
In IXX2 Thom;t~ Edison served <L~ a director in one of Commonwealth Edison's founding companies. His ide;t'\ eventually brought light to Chicago's State Street, and the new power of clectricitv to mil­lions. · 
In the mid-1960's men _and women with Edison's ambition embarked on an equally impressive agen­da: to supply the electncal needs of northern Illinois well into the 21st century. Their ideas created one of the largest and most visionary nuclear building programs in the world. 
Today, we're the nation's largest nuclear utility with more opportunities for great thinkers in computer systems than any other utility. . 
Be~ome a part of our team of great thinkers. If you are able to verify employment eligibilitv in the limted States, have a "B" average and a BS/BA degree in Computer Science, Math. MIS or Engineering and '!n interest in w~>rking <L'\ a C<~mputer Programmer. send ym~r resume. to: COMMONWEALTH EDISON, Professtonal RecrUitment, P.O. Box 767, Chicago. IL 60690-0767. Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/0/V. 
8 Commonwealth Edison 
\BI A Generation Ahead 
• ~ ...... & .. 

population which currently occupies Grace Hall. The con-· version of Grace from dorm to offices is expected to begin in June 1996 and be completed early in 1998. 
Moore said the conversion will be good for campus demo­graphics. 
"We think the move is actu­ally beneficial for the men on campus because we're break­ing up the conglomeration of large dorms where right now virtually the entire men's stu­dent body resides," he said. 
South Dining Hall will also undergo some changes to make sure it can handle the increased number of students, Moore said. 
The fifth floor of the Main 

The Observer/Brendan Regan 

Administration Building has not "We have land north of cam­been in use for quite some time, pus on which we could conceiv­Moore said. This area which ably build a new golf course, will be refurbished and an ele­but that is simply not a priority vator will be installed. right now," Moore said. ''I'm 
The building will also be not saying it couldn't happen made accessible to handi­sometime down the road, but capped persons, he added. we have no interest in pursuing 
The front nine holes of Burke it right now." "-' Memorial Golf course, which The Universit:9' already has was built in 1926, will continue received pledges of major gifts to be open to the public as well to underwrite construction of as the University community. the new residence halls. 
-(lMPUSMINI5TRY 
DIRTY 
SALLY IS A 
DOMER! 
The Liturgical Choir Commencement Concert 
Friday, May 13, 1994 8:30p.m., Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Concert is free and open to the public. 
page 6 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT May 13, 1994 



Arthur Andersen Welcomes the Following 1994 University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Graduates to Our Firm


.. 

Christopher Adler 
Chicago Office 
Elizabeth Baillargeon 
Chicago Office 
Christopher Barry 
Chicago Office 
Angeles Beltri 
Houston Office 
Michael Bremner 
Chicago Office 
Jane Brooks 
Chicago Office 
Anthony Buffomante 
Chicago Office 
Robert Burke 
Chicago Office 
J. Russell Carr 
Chicago Office 
Carolyn Carson 
Chicago Office 
Dennis Dixon 
Pittsburgh Office 
Greg Graceffo 
Boston Office 
Amy Hughes 
Chicago Office 
Christopher Ike 
New York Office 
Regina Kearns 
New York Office 
David Kisch 
Minneapolis Office 
Aaron Kutylo 
Chicago Office 
Ann Laing 
Denver Office 
Daniel Lee 
Chicago Office 
Megan Lee 
Washington, D. C. Office 
Robert Leonard 
Atlanta Office 
Tiffany Loughren 
Pittsburgh Office 
Sarah Lowthorp 
Minneapolis Office 
Elizabeth McConnell 
Chicago Office 
James McGuire 
Minneapolis Office 
Colleen O'Connor 
Atlanta Office 
Theodore Peterson 
Cincinnati Office 
Anne Pierson 
Atlanta Office 
Ryan Regan Washington, D. C. Office Benjamin Roese 
Chicago Office 
Kimberly Rouster 
Atlanta Office 
Michael Scrudato 
New York Office 
John Sebastian 
Chicago Office 
Christian Sepe 
New York Office 
Thomas Seurynck 
Chicago Office 
Daniel Sheridan 
Chicago Office 
Kimberly Sweeney 
Pittsburgh Office 
Megan Swiderski 
New York Office 
James Tierney 
Chicago Office 
Douglas Vincent 
Chicago Office 
Astrid Wehner 
Chicago Office 
Edmund Weiss 
New Jersey Office 
Greg Wozniak 
Chicago Office 
Jinhy Yoon 
New York Office 








--------~--------------------~----------------------------~------------~------------~----~~ --~ --~ ~~------~--­
Friday, May 13, 1994 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Scully named to second associate provost spot 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Editor 
Father Timothy Scully, asso­ciate professor of government and interna­tional studies, was elected a vice president and associate provost of the University by the Board of Trustees dur­ing their Father Scully meeting last week. The appointment is effec­tive July 1. 
The election creates a second vice president and associate provost in the University. Roger Schmitz has been vice president and associate provost since 1987. 
With the creation of the new position, Father Oliver Williams, an associate provost since 1987, will step out of that role and return to teaching and research. Father Williams is an associate professor of man­agement in the College of Business Administration and co-director, with professor John Houck, of the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. 
"The election is part of the University's effort to look to an­other generation of Holy Cross Priests as academic administra­tors," said Dennis Moore, direc­tor of Notre Dame Public Relations and Information. "It is anticipated that there will be several more of these over the next few years." 
It is also anticipated that Father Malloy will continue as president through the University's next capital cam­paign. He began his second five year term in 1992. 
In addition to his responsibili­ties as an associate professor of government, Scully is also di­rector of Latin American stud­ies, a faculty advisor in the Kellogg Institute of International Studies and a fel­low of Notre Dame's Urban Institute for Community and Educational Initiatives. He has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1989. 
A specialist in Latin American politics and institutions, he has written extensively on the role of political parties and transi­tions to democracy. Father Scully has been the recipient of two Fulbright fellowships, as well as fellowships and grants from the Social Science Research Council, the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, and the Fo-rd Foundation. 
He was selected a Senior Class Fellow and awarded the Charles F. Sheedy, C.S.C., award for excellence in teach­ing in 1993 and this year is the recipient of the O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award. 
Father Scully is the founder and director of the newly cre­ated Alliance for Catholic Education, which in its first year will send 40 ND graduates to teach in Catholic Schools in nine dioceses throughout the American South. Previously, he was the founder and first direc­tor of the Holy Cross Associates, which engages lay volunteers as partners in the various min­istries of the congregation. 

Father Scully was ordained a Holy Cross priest in 1981. He served as associate pastor of Cristo Nuestro Redentor parish in Santiago, Chile, from 1980­83 and was vice rector of St. George's College there from 1981-83. 
A member of Phi Beta Kappa, Father Scully was graduated summa cum laude from Notre Dame in 1976 with a bachelor's degree in economics and re­ceived his master of divinity degree from the University in 1979. He earned his master's and doctoral degrees in politi­cal science from the University of California at Berkeley in 1985 and '89, respectively. 
Father Williams returned last week from South Africa, where he served as a member of the United Nations Observation Mission for the first post­apartheid national elections in that country. 
A longtime member of the National Advisory Council to 
U.S. firms with business opera­tions in South Africa, he had traveled there on seven previ­ous fact-finding visits. He facili­tated the landmark 1991 meet­ing at Notre Dame between U.S. corporate and government of­ficials and representatives of the African National Congress, the Inkatha Freedom Party and the Pan-American Congress. 
As associate provost Father Williams has served on the Provost's Advisory Committee and has chaired the University committees on continuing edu­cation, the disabled and the 

The past four years, sadly enough, have come and gone. However, the memories that both you and the remaining residents of this hall share with one another will last long after you depart from here, your home away from home. Each one of you has made at lasting impression upon this university, this hall, and those who proudly refer to themselves as Zahmbies. 
From the time of Freshman Orientation and those nerve-wracking days and nights spent feeling the wrath of ODIN, through four years of home football weekends (and numerous pre-game festivities, for those of you who can remember them), ZITS, the Decade Dance, SYR's, community gatherings for prayer at Mass in our chapel, Zahm athletic contests, late night conversations with Keenan and Cavanaugh Halls, and other unique activities that are not fit for print, and now concluding with this final and most special weekend, you have been a part of an experience that is unique to Notre Dame and Zahm Hall. 
We want to thank you for gladly sharing these special moments with us. Through these moments and your presence in our everyday lives, you have provided us with an example to follow as we continue on our own paths toward commencement. All the advice, time, memories, and fun that you share will remain with us along the way and long afterward. 
All of us hope that as you embark on the rest of your lives, you leave here full of those same memories. We wish you the best of luck in all of your future pursuits, that success and happiness may be found wherever you go. Please remember where you came from and that you will always have a home within the cozy confines of Zahm. May God bless you. 
Love, 

The Men of Zahm 
P.S. SEE YUH! 
~ ~ ~~-~---..,,......,w_..________.._._~----~-~---~----~-..-----~---~---~--­
pageS The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 13 1994 

White House and across the nation for America's children.
Dwyer named to ND 
She served on the front lines of the civil rights movement in the continued from page 1 1960s before founding the
mathematics chair 
CDF. The author of two books,
• Erma Hornbeck, syndicated 
she is currently developing, for 
newspaper columnist.
Special to The Observer utation in the discipline," Said fall publication, a parenting
Hornbeck, who will receive an
Francis J. Castellino, dean of guide for African-American
honorary doctor of laws degree, 
William Dwyer, a mathe­Notre Dame's College of families. 
is the author of 11 books and a
matician and member of the Science. • Cardinal Roger Etchegaray, 
thrice weekly column that is
Uniersity of Notre Dame faculty Swyer chaired the president of the Pontifical since 1980, has been named to University's mathematics syndicated in some 7 50 news­Council for Justice and Peace. 
papers nationwide. She will be
the University's Williams J. department from 1984-88 and Etchegaray, who will receive an Hank Family professorship in was a visiting professor at MIT accepting her 15th honorary honorary doctor of laws, has
degree.

mathematics, according to in 1992. represented Pope John Paul in 
• Shiing-Shen Chern, profes­
Timothy O'Meara provost. His reasearch in algebraic dozens of hot spots around the 
sor emeritus of mathematics,
"As a mathematician myself, topology has had a profound world and has been responsible 
University of California at
I am delighted to recognize by affect on current thinking with for the Vatican's landmark doc­this apporintment the brilliant regards to the fundamental Berkeley. Chern, who will re­uments on racism, interna­
ceive an honorary doctor of sci­
achievements of Bill Dwyers, problems in that area of study tional debt, homelessness and who has combined noteworthy and has reached as well into ence degree, has developed other issues. service to the University with the theroy of numbers. numerous key concepts that • Shelby Foote, writer and scholarly influence in his field," He has delieverd invited lec­form the foundation of global historian. Foote, who will re­
differential geometry. 

O'meara said in making the tures at numersous universities ceive an honorary doctor of
• Johnetta Cole, president of
announcement. and institutes in the U.S. and laws degree, is author of the
Spelman College. Cole, who will 
"Dwyer's achievements in overseas, including Oxford, massive history "The Civil War:
receive an honorary doctor of
mathematics have served both Yale, Princeton, Cornell, Johns A Narrative," and arguably the 
to enhance the quality of laws degree, is a nationally re­
Hopkins, MIT, the University of world's foremost authority on
spected anthropologist, author,
instruction at Notre Dame and Chicago and the Mathemateical the subject. In the early 1950s 
to enchnace Norte Dame's rep-administrator ,and teacher. In
Science Research Institute. he was asked to write a brief
1972 she became the first 
history of the Civil War-twenty
African American woman pres­
years and three volumes later,
ident of historically black
Sommese appointed to 
Spelman College in Atlanta. The author of two widely used textbooks in her field, she has
Duncan professorship 
long been an advocate for women and all people of color. 
Special to The Observer impressed with his courage in 
• James Coleman, professor
translating his research in this 
of sociology, University of
Andrew Sommese, a mathe­fundamental discipline into 
Chicago. Coleman, who will re­
matician and member of the applications to science and 
ceive an honorary doctor of
University of Notre Dame fac­technology." 
laws degree, is one of the na­
ulty since 1979, has been "In addition to his teaching 
tion's leading social theorists.
named to the University's and research, Sommese has 
He is a researcher with the
Vincent J. Duncan and made major contributions to 
National Opinion Research
Annamarie Micus Duncan pro­mathematics at Notre Dame in 
Center as well as a member of
fessorship in mathematics, ac­academic administrative roles," 
the Chicago faculty. • Marian
cording to Timothy O'Meara, said Francis Castellino, dean of 
Wright Edelman, president of
Notre Dame's provost. Notre Dame's College of 
the Children's Defense Fund
"Andrew Sommese is an out­Science. 
(CDF). Edelman, who will
standing algebraic geometer," Sommese chaired the math­
receive an honorary doctor of
O'Meara said in making the ematics department from 1988­
laws degree, is a powerful
announcement. "I am especially 92. 
advocate in Congress, at the 
rJ)illon 2lall Salutes 71u Bratluates of 1994 
jonathan Ablian Daniel Amitie joseph Barone Eric Belin Michael Benavidez Brian Bernasek Brian Brucks Matt carver David cary Kevin caster Timothy Cavanaugh Clement Chiu Todd Christiansen john covington Michael DePerro christopher Dolega Robert Escalera Gregory Estes james Flannigan Matthew Foley Brian Foy Kevin Gruben Kevin Hardman Thomas Harris Thomas lsenbarger chris johnson Tom Kovats Stephen Krueger Tom Kropewnicki jeremy liau jim Martin William McDonald Michael McGlinn christopher McGoldrick Christopher McNamara David Novak Kenneth Motolenich-Sales joseph Orlando Michael Palmer Brian Piper John Potocky Eliot Price joseph Reardon Francisco Rivera Clarke Rogers Matthew schneiderhahn Michael Somerville Robert Steinberger BiLL Stein bach Mark Tattoli joseph Viglietta Tom Westrick john whapham james Wilberding Mark Zito jason Anderson LAW STUDENTS christopher Coury Don Lohman 
Congratulations, ood £uck andBo Cllig f ed!!!! 
he completed the project. 
• 
Nick Holonyak, professor, University of Illinois. Holonyak, who will receive an honorary doctor of engineering degree, is credited with the invention of the first practical light-emitting diode (LED), a semiconductor crystal device that led to digital watches and a range of elec­tronic instrument panel read­outs. · 

• 
Newton Minow, attorney. Minow, who will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree, is counsel to the Chicago law firm of Sidney and Austin and has served as a member of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees on two occasions, 1964-77 and 1983 to the present. 

• 
John Welch, chairman of the board and chief executive officer, General Electric Company. Welch, who will re­ceive an honorary doctor of laws degree, has nearly dou­bled General Electric's revenue from $26 billion to $60 billion annually since becoming chair­man and CEO in 1981. 


and 
The Class of 1994 
We wish you much success and happiness in your quest tor a new adventure! 
Gary Bechtold Richard Bogucki Robert Castelli Mike Connelly Michael Ebner Derrick Fluhme 
Jeff Gerber james Hurley Bernard Landa chris Martin Dominic Morber Ritchie Oriol Jay Parsons jose Ramirez justin Sage Steven Stem Brian Weiford Stephen Zi lioli 
Paul Moses 

J 
Four Years in Review 
Friday, May 13, 1994 

page 9 
I 

"Swim team bus crashes" 
Two members of the Notre Dame swim team were killed early Jan. 24th when a United Limo bus carrying the team overturned on the Indiana Toll Road. Freshmen Colleen Hipp and Meghan Beeler died and over 30 otherswere injured, including freshman Haley Scott, who remained in the hospital with serious back injuries for six weeks. 
January 24, 1992 
4 
"Burtchaell to resign amid sexual misconouct" 

Rumors surround­ing Notre Dame the­ology professor Father James Burtchaell have been confirmed by an arti­cle in this week's issue of the National Catholic Reporter (NCR) which states that Burtchaell has agreed to resign amid charges of sex­ual misconduct with male undergradu­ates. 
Dec.3, 1991 

"50 million dollar 2 Stadium expansion 
announced" 

The University gave alumni and Irish fans their field of dreams, finalizing the plans for expansion of Notre Dame Stadium by 21,000 seats by the 1997 season. 
May 13, 1994 
"Notre Dame student 
killed in weekend 
crash" 


Mara Fox, a Lyons Hall freshman, was killed early Saturday morning when she was struck by a car along Douglas Road while walking back to campus from Macri's Deli with three other freshman women and one of their older brothers. 
Nov. 15,1993 
"Administration changes state of Grace" 
Following the 1995-96 academic year, Grace Hall will be converted to a permanent adminis­trative office building and, upon conver­sion, the Main build­ing will be vacated to undergo a major renovation. Two new residence halls will be built on a portion of the Burke Memorial Gold Course. 


April 22, 1994 
"Loretto renovation cer­tain; SMC communitydivided" 
Renovation of the Church of Loretto at Saint Mary's is immi­nent, despite opposi­tion from many in the Saint Mary's community, accord­ing to Mary Turgi, chairperson of the renovation commit­tee. 
Nov. 20, 1991 
3 
6




....--------------~~-~__...--~~-----~~--~------­
page 10 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 13, 1994 
Malloy to Merz named to engineering chair 
oversee program 
Special to the Observer 
University President Father Edward Malloy will play a prominent role in the new national service initiative as a member of federal and state bodies created by the National and Community Service Trust Act. 
On the national level, Father Malloy will serve as a member of the AmeriCorps program­ming advice and guidance for the NCCC. which is designed to offer 18-24 year-old the oppor­tunity to participate in urban and rural service projects. 
In exchange for an 11-month commitment to such projects, volunteers will receive living allowances and $4,725 to be applied to their education. 
The membership of the board also will include the heads of NCCC and the Corporation for National and Community Service, as well as selected members of President Clinton's Cabinet. 
On the state level, Father Malloy has been appointed by Governor Evan Bayh to the Indiana Commission on Community Service, which will oversee the state's implementation of the national service initiative. 
Under the national legisla­tion, some two-thirds of the funds available for service pro­grams will be awarded by the state commissions. Joining Father Malloy on the state commission will be Drew Buscareno, a 1991 Notre Dame graduate and the volunteer co­ordinator for the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
Father Malloy, who as a Notre Dame student himself participated in service pro­grams in Central and South America, has been a prominent national advocate of student voluntarism. 
Last June, as chair of the board of the American Council on Education, he testified on national service before the U.S. Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources. 
Notre Dame has a long record of pioneering programs to engage both its students and alumni in service projects. 
Through the University's Center for Social Concerns. almost 70 percent of Notre Dame students engage in a community service activity dur­ing their years on campus and about 10 percent of each year's graduating seniors -for example, some 200 1994 grad­uates-choose to devote a year or more to service programs throughout the U.S. and around the globe. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association was the first alum­ni group to establish a perma­nent service component, and its programs have become the models for similar efforts throughout American higher education. 
The Observer wishes you a safe, happy summer. 
Special to the Observer 
James Merz, formerly profes­sor of electrical engineering, professor of materials, and di­rector of the Center for Quantized Electronic Structures (QUEST) at the University of California at Santa Barbara, has been named to the University of Notre Dame's Frank Freimann Professorship in electrical engineering, according to Timothy O'Meara, Notre Dame's provost. 
"The appointment of James Merz represents a significant addition to the Notre Dame fac­ulty," O'Meara said in making the announcement. "As a re­searcher of international stature, he brings experienced leadership to the outstanding young scholars the University has assembled in the field of solid state devices. As an alum­nus. he brings a strong com­mitment to the values of Notre Dame." 
"Merz has made pioneering contributions to the under­standing of fundamental prop­erties of ultra-small electronic structure. semiconductor lasers and optoelectronic devices," said Anthony Michel, McCloskey Dean of the College of Engineering. 
An internationally recognized scholar in the field of optoelec­tronic materials and devices, Merz was graduated from Notre Dame with a bachelor's degree in physics in 1959 and attended the University of Gottingen in Germany as a Fulbright Fellow in 1959-60. He attended Harvard University as both a Woodrow Wilson and Danforth Fellow, earning his master's degree in 1961 and his doctorate in 1967. 
He joined the technical staff of Bell Laboratories in 1966 and investigated the optical properties of compound semiconductors. After a semes­ter as Gordon McKay Visiting Lecturer on Applied Physics at Harvard in 1972, he returned to Bell Laboratories to work on optoelectronic devices and inte­grated optical circuits. 
Merz joined the faculty of UC­Santa Barbara as professor of electrical engineering in 1978. He was appointed chairman of electrical and computer engi­neering in 1982, associate dean for research development of the college of engineering in 1984, and associate vice chancellor in 1988. He was a visiting research scientist at the Optoelectronics Joint Research Laboratory in Japan in 1985, a visiting research professor at 
the  Tokyo  Institute  of  
Technology  in  1989,  and  
Hitachi  Professor  at  the  

University of Tokyo in 1992. 
QUEST. which he has di­rected since its establishment in 1989, is a National Science Foundation science and tech­nology center bringing together 20 faculty members from a va­riety of academic disciplines. 
Merz is a fellow of the American Physical Society and the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers and a member of the Materials Research Society and the Society for Values in Higher Education. Recipient of an hon­orary doctorate from Linkoping University in Sweden, he has published more than 300 pa­pers and holds five patents. 
Merz and his wife, Rose­Marie, have four adopted chil­dren. 
The Frank Freimann Chair is one of five endowed Notre Dame faculty positions-four in engineering and one in physics­underwritten by the Freimann Charitable Trust in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
The chair honors the late president and chief executive officer of the Magnavox Co .. who also was a member of the University's Advisory Council for Science and Engineering. Among Frank Freimann's many gifts to Notre Dame was $500,000 toward construction of the Hesburgh Librarv. 

Norwest's Unbelievable 
Free Checking. 
Everyone~ GawkingAbout lt. 
You can see it on their faces. People everywhere are amazed by our brand new Unbelievable Free Checking. After all, whdd believe no monthly service charges? Whdd believe no minimum balance? Who'd believe no per check charges plus a free first order of 200 checks? Well start believing. And only Norwest gives you 24-hour telephone banking, free access to Instant Cash machines in Indiana and Ohio. So stop by today and open your Norwest Unbelievable Free Checking account. Pretty soon you'll be gawking too 

Friday, May 13, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 11 
Send-off to honor senior volunteers Report 
By SAMH DORAN 
News Editor 
Some 200 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors planning 
to participate in up to three years of post­graduate community service will be honored to­morrow at the Center for 


S o c i a l Cardinal Concerns' 
fifth annual Etchegaray Senior Volunteer Send-Off. All students participating in service programs-as well as their family and friends-are invited to the ceremony begin­ning at 10 a.m. in Washington Hall. A reception· Will follow at the esc. Universit-y President Father Edward Malloy will preside over the ceremony and 
Cardinal Roger Etchegaray, president of the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace, will address the graduates. Notre Dame graduate and for­mer post-graduate volunteer Andrea Shappell will also speak. Blessings by Father Don McNeill, director of the CSC, and Father Tom McDermott of Campus Ministry are also planned. 
The ceremony will also in­clude prayer, liturgical music and the lighting and passing of the candles. 
Over 130 students have al­ready registered to attend the ceremony' according to esc senior volunteer coordinator Mary Ann Roemer, but she en­courages those who have not yet signed up to attend as well. 
Each year, between 150 and 200 students choose post-grad­uate volunteer work, according to Roemer. They work in this country and abroad in a variety 
~TOYO GRlll 
Traditional Japanese/Korean, Yakinil<u 
Sushi, Teriyaki, Bulgogi, Shabu Shabu 
Tues-Fri 
-Call for Reservations-Carry Out Available 
11:00-2:30 (lunch) 5:00-9:30 (dinner) 
Saturday -Sunday: 4:00-9:00 620 W. Edison Rd. Michawaka St. Andrews' Plaza 254-9120 
of service positions, including drug and alcohol rehabilitation centers, Native American reser­vation schools, AIDS ministries, Catholic parishes, and rural and urban slums. 
Among the established ser­vice programs the seniors will join are the Holy Cross Associates, the Alliance for Catholic Education, the Jesuit Volunteer Corps, Teach for America, and the Peace Corps. 
"They are students who want to deepen the experiences they have had here," said Roemer. 
Many particpants have al­ready been accepted to gradu­ate schools or have been of­fered jobs, but have asked for deferments, she said. 
"Volunteering gives partici­pants a different perspective," said Roemer. "(Post-graduate service) helps you get things prioritized." 
The Send-Off is a way for stu­dents and parents to celebrate the decision to serve, she said. 
"Its important for the par­ents," she said. "They need to see that their children are not the only people doing this, that they are not stuck in a sixties time warp." 
"Its good for them to hear 
__A r* T'lil £ ~'\.-"r Chinese-American 

h~ ,.t'll5' • 1'1 I Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge
\YALL Authentic Szechuan, Jtt.qndarin,
and Hunan Cutstne 

Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week 
ILU.ilLJll<;;;) Starting at••••••••••••••••••••••$4.25 IUi11ners Starting at .......................$5.95 rooms available for up to 200 Voted Best Oriental Rest<1urant in 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend Michian,l by Micltiana Notu
(next to Randall's Inn) 

Malloy say that this is what we are all about, and also to hear from a former volunteer who has integrated her experiences into her career (Shappell)," said Roemer. 
Last year over 125 graduat­ing seniors attended the Send­Off, said Roemer. More than 500 people took part in the ceremony. 
Lou Nanni, Notre Dame grad­uate and director of the Center for the Homeless, shared his experiences as a volunteer with the Holy Cross Associates pro­gram. 
This year, Shappell, who par­ticipated in a one year post­graduate service program in New Orleans and currently a teaches theology at Notre Dame, and Etchegaray, who has been responsible for nu­merous landmark Vatican doc­uments on homelessness and other social issues will address the students and their parents. 
But the Send-Off is just the first step in preparing graduat­ing seniors for their service ex­perience, said Roemer. Volunteers undergo training through their particular pro­gram, some starting as early as this summer. 
presented to Board 
By KATIE MURPHY 
Associate News Editor 
The year-long efforts of the student government Committee on Catholic Character culmi­nated in a final report and pre­sentation to the Board of Trustees last week. 
The report, entitled "Renewing the Mission: A Presentation of Students' Perspectives of Notre Dame's Catholic Character," focused on the undergraduate experience with Catholic Character. It is the first time that a student government committee has ex­amined the subject. 
"We're trying to create for you a picture of what the un­dergraduate life is like at Notre Dame," said Catherine Miller, chairwoman of the committee. 
The report includes the com­posite results of 1500 student responses to a Catholic Character survey. It is divided into eight main sections: theol­ogy curriculum, Catholic teach­ing, residentiality, the Holy Cross Congregation, campus ministry, service, faculty hir­ing, and non-Catholics. 
According to Miller, the cen­tral issue discussed at the meeting with the trustees was residentiality. The student sur­veys revealed that only 15 per­cent of respondents felt that the resident assistants (RAs) and the rectors/rectresses played a dominant role in their spiritual development at Notre Dame. 
Best W1shes to the Flanner Sen1ors 
CO~GRATULATIO~S! 
Christopher Adler Christopher Hirai Michael Anderson Ivan Hoffman Erich Baker Jose Humbert 
..~

Michael Barsic James Irwin 
Daniel Berg Clint Johnson Larry Bergman 
Jason Joshrud Paul Bray Sean Keene 
William Brennan Michael Kluk Brian Casey Wilhelm Lehman 
Richard Casper Douglas Lucas Brian Connor Dennis Mackin Darren Cook John Maneri Lake Dawson Lorenzo Martinez Scott Dennis Jeff Matsumato 

Jefferey Donarski Douglas Maurer Keith Eppich Oscar McBride Michael Fereltic Sean McHugh Timothy Fischer Matthew Mohs 
Nicholas Harmon Anthony Muehlberger 
Mark Feczko, JuRIS DocTOR 

Paul Picchione 
Daniel Pier Joseph Poe Thomas Price Albert Proctor Christopher Putt Gregory Ripple Michael Rood Timothy Ruddy Eric Schimmel Andrew Sinn Mark Swenson Aaron Taylor Philip Tomsik Matthew Wahoske Clarke Warren Christopher Welsh John Wenman Randy Zamora 

SMC names new Board members 
page 12 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 13, 1994 
Five 01ore seniors awarded Fulbrights 
Special to the Observer  Calif.  -Jay is a government  
and  international  studies  
Five Notre Dame seniors  major who plans to continue  
have joined four previously an­ previous study of land reform  
nounced awardees from the  efforts in Zimbabwe.  
University  as  recipients of  
Fulbright grants for graduate  •Carol Smoller, Madison,  
study abroad in the 1994-95  Wis.  - A government and  
academic year.  Spanish major, Smoller will  
compare  and  contrast  the  
•Amanda Clarke, Brookville,  activity of Chilean law enforce­ 
Pa.  -An aerospace engineer­ ment official during the reign  
ing and philosophy major,  of Augusto Pinochet to their  
Clarke plans to study the cul­ behavior today.  
tural, geological, economic and  
other affects of volcanic activi­ •Jeremy Reynolds, Danvers,  
ty on the Philippines.  Mass.  - A  sociology  and  
• Michael  Connelly,  St.  German major, Reynolds has  
Anthony , Minn.  -A biochem­ received a Fulbright Teaching  
istry and anthropology major,  Assistantship. He plans to in­ 
Connellly will examine the  terview residents of the East  
It's a bird, it's a plane, it's ...  combination of tradition and Western practices in the  German city of Chemnitz to de­termine factors that promote  
Notre Dame students and administrators view Tuesday's eclipse from the Field House Mall. The eclipse blocked out 90% of the sun's light in the South Bend Area.  health-care system of the African nation of Malawi. •Susan Jay, Los Angeles,  social links between groups of people who have been histori­cally separated.  

Special to the Observer 
The office of the president at Saint Mary's College recently announced the newly elected members of the Board of Trustees for 1994-95. 
They are as follows: 

• 
Kristina Berg of Lansing, Mich. is the 1994-95 student regent. She is a doubl!;J major in Communications and Humanistic Studies. 

• 
Patti Lurel Cook of Manhasset, New York is a port­folio manager for Fischer, Francis, Trees and Watts, an investment company. She was previously a vice president with Salomon Brothers. 

• 
Sister Brigid Driscoll from Terrytown, New York is the president of Marymount College. She is a past board member of the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities (ACCU) and the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU). 

• 
Philip Faccenda of South Bend is a partner in the law firm of Barnes & Thornburg, the largest law firm in Indiana. He is heavily involved in a vari­ety of business ventures, including the ownership of sev­eral small businesses and the development of Erskine Manor in South Bend. He as also served in the capacity of legal advisor to the College for a number of years. 

• 
Harold Graham of Joliet, Ill. is the owner of H.P. Graham Construction, a road construc­tion contractor. Graham is also a current member of the Saint Mary's Parents Council and has two daughters, one who gradu­ated from Saint Mary's in 1991 and another who will graduate in 1995. 

• 
Lawrence McCabe is from Wexford, Penn. is the senior vice president and General Counsel of the H.J. Heinz Company in Pittsburgh. He is a past member of the Parents Council and has two daughters who graduated from Saint Mary's. 

• 
Lydia Haggar Novakov from Dallas, Texas is a former mem­ber of the Board of Regents. She co-chaired her Reunion Gift 


the president of the Alumnae Association and the Congregation of the Sisters of Alumnae representative on the the Holy Cross and is a recipi­Board of Trustees. ent of an honoree degree at this years commencement. • Richard Wick of Dayton, 
I 
that? how is hung? when are you coming in? I
• Ann Meagher Vander Ohio is the president and owner Vennet of Wilmette, Ill. recently of Industrial Grinding, Inc. and 
and bandito's or club?
completed her term as a former member of the Alumnae Board representative Parents Council. His daughter 
1 SeriouslY. You will all be missed in the 1 
on the Board of Regents. She graduated from Saint Mary's in previously was president the 1992. office. Be it for your skill. Your commitment• 
Alumnae Association and presi­• Darwin Wiekamp of dent of the Chicago Alumnae Mishawaka is the chairman of Ior just Your humor. The advertising dePart-1
Club. the board of Valley Financial Services, Inc. and Valley ment has graduated a trulY fine class. I 
• Beth Lichtenfels Veihmeyer American Bank. He is also very of Nort Potomac, Maryland is active the South Bend and 1Congratulations from all of us! the new president of the Mishawaka communities. 
. ________-Ads ...I
L 

Best Wishes to Graduating Student-Athletes From the Office of Academic Services for Student-Athletes 
Baseball  football (Cont)  Managers  Women's Swimming  
Robert Blrk  Jim Flanagan (Dec. 1994)  Jonathan Abllan  Victoria Catenacci  
Martin DeGraff  Reginald Fleurima  Terry Baker  Alicia Feehery  
Harry Durkin  Oliver Gibson  Joseph Barone  Angela Gugle  
Matthew Haas  Robert Hughes  Glenn Cassidy  Kristin Heath  
Gregory Layson  Raghib "Rocket" Ismail  Michael Cox  Karen Keeley  
Richard Lozano Clint Johnson Thomas Price Gregory Lane Men's Basketball Robert Leonard Brooks Boyer Dean Lytle Carl Cozen Andrew Marsh John Ross Oscar McBride (Dec. 1994) Joseph Ross Kevin McDougal Sean Ryan Michael McGlinn Women's Basketball Brian Meter Andrea Alexander Kevin Pendergast Anthony PetersonKatura Jones Timothy RuddyKristin Knapp LeShane SaddlerKathryn Leary Sherr! Orlosky Aaron Taylor (Dec. 1994) Stuart TynerCheerleaders Bryant YoungMatthew Metz. Men's GolfRyan Roberts Jason JohnsrudDarin Sipe Todd KlemTaeseok Yoo Women's GolfMen's fencing Christine KleinJason Arnold Alicia MurrayRlan Girard Denise PaulinChristopher Hajnik Gregory Hicks 11ockey Gregory Ripple Thomas Arkell Grz.egorz. Wozniak Brent Lothrop Women's Fencing Gregory Louder Matthew OsieckiKimberly Arndt Corinne Dougherty Lacrosse Marlt Fischer William Ahmuty Maura Gallagher Randall Colley Dlnamarle Garcia Mark Hexamer Noelle Ries Steven Manley Moni{!a Wagner Garrett Reilly Peter SnyderFootball Robert SnyderJason Beckwith William SuttonPete Bereich (Dec. 1994)  Christopher Duba Sheldon Fink Kristen Herring Michele Klesta Erika Llndhjem Raphael Nicolosi Peter O'Reilly Jonathan Rock Christine Rudolph John Salmon Amy Schenkel Michael Sullivan David Walters Richard Wood Men's Soccer Jack Elliot Michael Palmer Women's Soccer Brenda Gorski (Dec. 1994) Andrea Kurek Gennifer Kwiatkowski Alison Lester Jill Matesic Stephanie Porter Natalia Strawbridge Softball Christy Connoyer Caroline Miller Stephanie Pinter Amy Rueter Men's Swimming Patrick Cady Brian Casey George Dalley James Doran Kevin Flanagan Sean Hyer  Men's Tennis Eoln Beirne Theodore Eckert Allan Lopez. Thomas North Todd Wilson Women's Tennis Christen Faustmann Lisa Tholen Terri Vitale Trainers Nicole Egan Kristen Lefere Men's Track Daniel Amitle Craig Christian Miguel Conway John Cowan Robert Herman Nathan Knuth Brian Kubicki Jeff Matsumoto Michael McWilliams David Platt Emerson Quan Christopher Ross Jonathan Smerek James Trautmann Women's Track Laura Guyer Volleyball Dyan Boulac Julie Harris Janelle Karlan Molly Stark Student Office Worker Colette LaForce  
Brent Boz.nanskl  

Jeffrey Burris
Campaign last year and is the 
John Covington
past chair of the Dallas Junior 
Lake Dawson
League. 
• Sister Catherine O'Brien is 
Friday, May 13, 1994 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 13 


CONGRATULATIONS jONATHAN 
Four years of lots of learning and living and now... One morel 
Love, Mom, Dad, and jessica 
What a wonderful ND experi­ence this has been. Best wish­es to all you kids and parents we've had the pleasure of meeting. 
The Best, Hannie and Bill Walsh 
Cheney to speak at SMC Commencement 
Special to the Observer 
Lynne Cheney, a recipient of an honorary doctorate of humanities, has been chosen as the Saint Mary's Sesquicentennial year Commencement Speaker. 
Cheney served as chairman of The National Endowment for the Humanities from 1896­1993. 
She is currently the W.H. Brady Jr., Distinguished Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, an independent non­partisan organization spon­soring original research on domestic and international eco­nomic policy, foreign and de­fense policy, and social and po­litical issues. 
Cheney is a well known champion of the humanities and has spoken forcefully against political correctness on campuses, seeing it as a threat to free speech and intellectual life. 
Cheney was appointed chair­man of the NEH by President Reagan and reappointed by President Bush. 
During her two terms she 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 
J)g!i)' 0 ~~th 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 

(219)277.. 1291
51408 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 Phone Answered 24 hrs. 
called for a "back-to-basics" approach to humanities instruction, especially at the high school level. In a 1986 interview with the New York Times, she said, "Citizens of a democracy have to be able to think critically and judge wise­ly, that's what the humanities teach us." 
She is frequently credited with raising federal awareness of the importance of the hu­manities and the need to in­crease the endowment of the NEH. 
Under her chairmanship, sig­nificant attention was paid to "preserving America's her­itage" by the awarding of grants to such projects as Ken Burns' acclaimed public televi­sion series "The Civil War". 
In her third annual report, "50 hours", Cheney wrote of the need to call on colleges and universities to reduce electives in favor of an expanded curriculum in what she called "essential areas of knowledge." 
This curriculum should include 18 hours of courses in cultures and civilizations, including a year of courses in the civilizations of Africa, East and South Asia, Islam or Latin America and two years of a for­eign language. 
In "50 Hours", Cheney her­alds the value of teaching, a value cherished for 150 years at Saint Mary's College. Cheney writes, "Good teaching is a crucial to the success of any curriculum ... teachers who inspire their students to intellectual engagement are themselves always engaged." 
CONGRATULATIONS TO ALL THE SENIORS AND THEIRE ILlES. 
Special thanks to those ofyou who have contributed the time and effort to Campus Ministry. 


page 14 
Smoller evidences dedication 
By KATIE MURPHY 
Associate News Editor 
Carol Smaller's career of service at Notre Dame has centered on her commitment to the Hispanic community. 
As co-founder and current president of the Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics (CASH), Smoller has been instrumental in organizing a tutoring program and a Saturday kids club. Some CASH members also work as interpreters within the com­munity. 
"Basically, CASH unites stu­dents from Notre Dame who are interested in serving the Hispanic community with orga­nizations which are already es­tablished," said Smoller. 
A government and Spanish major from Madison, Wis., Smoller has also earned a Latin American studies concentration. She spent her sophomore year in Mexico City, where she volunteered for Amnesty International, and she will be traveling to Chile after graduation. 
"I have won a Fulbright Scholarship to go do research in Chile next year. I will study the 'Transition in the Police Force from the Pinochet Dictatorship to the Current Democracy. It's one of the safer places to study human rights," said Smoller. 
Smaller's Fulbright study as well as her senior concentra­tion paper focus human rights, one of her main interests. 
"Human rights work natu­rally has a service bent to it. I am going to Harvard to study human rights law (after Chile)," said Smoller. 
In addition to her work with 
CASH, Smoller is the service 
commissioner for the Spanish 
Club, a member of the student 
advisory board for the Center 
for Social Concerns and the 
Community for the 
International Lay Apostolate 
(CILA). 
Recently, Smoller was 

awarded the Mara Fox Award 
for Service to the Hispanic 
Community and the Robert D. 
Nuner Award. 
"I've grown a lot through my 
service," he said. 
SlicJCK YcJUJ 
PARENTS!! GET AJcJ13! 
Need a temporary start working in corpora­tions throughout the Chicagoland area? We can help! Our service specializes in Legal/ Clerical support and Light Industrial jobs. Please call us today at 1-800-70 1-HERO (4376) for an office near you! EOE 
INTERIM PERSONNEL 


By KATIE MURPHY 
Associate News Editor 

Scott Curtis' activities during his four years at Notre Dame have extended beyond the bor­ders of the campus. As a Sorin Hall resident assistant and co­president, Curtis brought to­gether students and the com­munity in a number of events. 
Three years ago, Curtis, a se­nior mathematics major from Boise, Idaho, helped organize the first of several Christmas parties for the residents of South Bend's Center for the Homeless. 
"Basically it was a gift giving program," said Curtis. 
The Sorin residents received wish lists from the parents of the children in the Center and then purchased gifts for them. Nearly one-third of the dorm regularly participated. 
The Observer· STUDENT PROFILES Friday, May 13, 1994 
Curtis' activities join students, community 
"We also prepared dinner for the guests and after that we had caroling," said Curtis. 
One of the highlights of Curtis' involvement with the Center was his Santa Claus ap­pearance, when he distributed the gifts to the children at the party. 
"I think everyone should play Santa Claus at least once before they die," said Curtis. 
Curtis also created a service trip to Appalachia for forty Sorin residents last fall. 
"I thought it would be neat for the guys to experience the area and really see what rural poverty is like. The people are just wonderful there," said Curtis. 
Next year Curtis will partici­pate in the Holy Cross Associates Chile program. He plans to stay in Chile for two and a half years and then teach high school. 

T\No essential ingredients for a perfect date: 
A date and this. 

It's everywhere )lOU ¥/ant to be: 
©Visa U.S.A. Inc. 1994 

Friday, May 13, 1994 The Observer • STUDENT PROFILES page 15 
Martin expands SMC service Cox to do post-grad 
BY ELIZABETH REGAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's senior Elizabeth Martin exemplifies the four pil­lars of the Holy Cross Commu­nity at Saint Mary's: service, prayer, community, and simple lifestyle. 
Martin's project of expanding the Spes Unica Resource and Volunteer Center at Saint Mary's began after returning from the Australia Program with Notre Dame during her junior year. 
"I had a hand in so many dif­ferent things before I left," Martin said. "Instead of dab­bling in all different areas, I de­cided to leave a mark on the school that would help Saint Mary's students in the future." 
After attending the Play of the Mind in January, Martin real­ized the need that many wom­en's colleges have for expanded service and the desire for most of them to be more closely con­nected to the religious orders 
The ickorY Uillase Love Affair 

Look At What 
$295 

Can Get You: 
• 
AGreat One-Bedroom Apartment 

• 
(EffiCiencies from $280, Two Bedrooms Available from $355!) 

• 
Sparkling Pool and Sundeck 

• 
Beautiful Clubhouse 

• 
Free Aerobics Classes 

• 
Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees 

• 
Attentive Staff 

• 
Laundry Facilities 

• 
Cable TV Available 

• 
Balcony • Close to Shopping 

• 
Air Conditioning 

• 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance 


2'l2-1880 
HICKORY ~ VIU..AOI! ~
. 
"' 
>

EDISON-§;---+-1 
1-+----=t-iMcKINLEY 
JEFFERSON 
Call or stop by ted<!)' and we'll show you how great loving at H1ckory Village can be. 
rHlCKORU 
1JlLLAqE~ 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 &Sun. 12-4 
that run the schools. 
"I wanted Saint Mary's to pio­neer change and set forth an example of an expanded ser­vice center at a women's col­lege," she said. 
Her idea was rooted in the combination of this experience and her Catholic Social Thought class. 
"To me, Catholicism equals service," Martin said. "I see a lot of young Catholics giving up. They have to realize that Catholicism is not easy and that there is a lot to be said for social action." 
Martin organized a small group of students to devise a survey to present to the student body and finally a proposal for the Board of Governance and the Senior Officers. 
President Hickey approved the expansion of SURV in a meeting last week. 
Throughout her four years at Saint Mary's, Martin was in­volved in many different service projects ranging from tutorinl! 
Biting my truant pen, beating myselffor spite, ':fool," said my Muse to me, "look in thy heart and write." 
-Sir Philip Sidney 
The department of Public Relations and Information congratulates our graduating student writers and aides: 
Amanda· Clinton Mary Heather ffiusko Francisco "Pancho" Lozano Joseph Magyar Natasha Nowak Heidi Toboni 
children in South Bend to work­ing in soup . kitchens in Australia. Martin participated in the Appalachia program and the Urban Plunge program as well. 
Martin, a communication ma­jor with minors in sociology and religious studies, was a lector at masses, was involved on her class' boards, a tutor at the Writing Center, and involved with Women in Communica­tions. 
"It is nice to be involved in giving back," said Martin. "These last four years have been so formative. I have learned to have faith in myself and that I can make a differ­ence -not that I expect to go out and change the world ­but I believe that everyone can make a difference." 
Martin will continue to make a difference when she takes a position with the Holy Cross As­sociates in Colorado Springs working in parishes with the poor next year. 
service in Ireland 
By LAURA FERGUSON Saint Mary's News Editor 
After graduating from Saint Mary's College this spring, Andrea Cox is planning to re­turn to Ireland, however instead of visiting Ireland as a student she will be volunteering her time to help overcome the conflicts between Catholics and Prodestants in Ireland. 
Cox will volunteer at a YMCA facility and will work with both Catholic and Prodestant young adults in hopes of uniting them and allowing them to get to know each other. 
Groups of 17 and 18 year­olds will come from around Ireland as well as other European countries to partici­pate in outdoor persuits such as archary, canoeing, and rock climbing according to Cox. 
A religious studies and philosophy major, Cox also 
views this as a way to look into herself. 
"Through my religious stud­ies major, I knew that I wanted to do volunteer work as a year of focusing on others and myself," Cox said. "Its a way to learn more about faith and how people get along." 
While at Saint Mary's Cox was involved in other forms of service and ministering orgainzations, especially at Notre Dame. 
She was heavily involved wiht the Notre Dame Retreate Encounter group. Since sopho­more year, Cox sat on a board to set up weekly meetings. 
"My older brother was a graduate student at Notre Dame and was highly involved in the Notre Dame Encounter group," she said. "When I got involved it helped me to meet people and to learn more about my faith while in college." 
Frantonius leaves eclectic mark 
By LAURA FERGUSON Saint Mary's News Editor 
If Denise Frantonius could leave Saint Mary's with one piece of advice for underclass­men it would be this-try one of everything. 
During her years at Saint Mary's, Frantonius did get in­volved in a little of everything. She was highly involved in Campus Ministry, the theater department, the chemistry de­partment, and the music de­partment. 
"I think that I left the mark of 
You've come a 
long way, McGruff! Congratulations! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Carrie, & Brandy 
an eclectic person on Saint Mary's because I did diverse things," Frantonius said. "I hope that I encouraged other students to try different things and different opportunities." 
One of the areas that Frantonius was most heavily in­volved in was the Saint Mary's campus ministry. 
She served as a sponsor for someone to make the profes­sion of faith in the Fight of Christian Initiation of Adults (RCIA). Frantonius also helped to plan and run the RCIA meet­ings. 
Frantonius also participated in campus ministry by presid­ing at some of the campus prayer services without com­munion such as the Ash Wednesday service and the Martin Luther King service and sharing reflections at other masses. 
In addition she was involved in the Homeletic Workshops held at Saint Mary's for stu­dents. At this workshop stu­dents learned how to write reflections on selected read­ings. 
"I was involved in all this be­cause there are a lot of oppor­tunities readily available at Saint Mary's that are accessible here but not everywhere else," said Frantonius. "My experi­ences here gave me confidence. 
I know that I, as a woman, can 
be a minister in the Catholic 
church." 
The Campus Christian 
Fellowship and Intervarsity 
Christian Fellowship groups at 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame 
also encouraged Frantonius 
through strong fellowship com­
munities. 
Frantonius spent several of her years involved in the music ministry at Saint Mary's. In ad­dition to singing she played handbells for masses at the ·Chruch of Loretto during the summer with some of the 
Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
"From the sisters I learned 
humility because the are 
always willing to help by giving 
prayers and support but they 
don't expect anything in return. 
I know this by working with 
them in music. They are some 
of the most sincere people I 
know." 
Within her chemistry major, 
Frantonius was involved in 
Saint Mary's Affiliates of the 
American Chemistry Society 
(SMACKS). As part of SMAACS 
Frantonius went to an analyti­
cal chemistry conference in 
Chicago and participated in the 
annual Hypatia Day held on 
campus. 
Frantonius was also involved 
in several theatrical produc­
tions at Saint Mary's. 
ATTENTION ALL WING LOVERS! 
Come, join us for a BLAST at our 
newest location near Service Merchandise. 
Congratulations we invite you to the 
to come in and check out 
Big-Screen TV • Darts • Video Games University Center 6502 N. Grape Rd. Phone 273-0088 
-~-~-~ -~ --~--·-~--~-~-~·~--~------~----·-···-·~ -·--~---~~~ 
VIEWPOINT 
page 16 Friday, May 13, 1994 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
John Lucas  Joseph Riley  
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran  Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge  
Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry  Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter  
Sports Editor ....... ; ............ George Dohrmann  Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser  
Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good  Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan  
Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall  Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig  
Saint Mary's Editor............... Elizaberh Regan  Controller ..................................... Krisren Martina  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and 10 all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor /Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
BONG MIQUIABAS 
Why Notre Dame is so special • • • 
As I write this final column, I recline comfortably under a towering tree in the middle of God quad, nestled between the statues of Father Sorin and "Jump-Down Jesus," within earshot of the pianos of Crowley and the laughter of Walsh Hall. The hazy sunshine masks itself behind lilting branches and leaves that lull me to slumber. This is the type of setting unique to college liv­ing, and I feel incredibly grate­ful for having it. So fighting slumber, I stagger to my senses in search of an inspired and fit­ting last word about life at Notre Dame. 
I am not oblivious to my situ­ation. Nostalgia prevails upon the minds of e.very graduating senior, coloring the thoughts with inescapable bitter-sweet­ness. Perhaps now, I suggest to myself, I am in the best position to date to comment on the sim­ple question that swims in many of our minds: "What makes Notre Dame special?" 
With differing intensity and points of emphasis, all of us ask ourselves this question, for it needs to be answered in order to heighten one's appreciation here. I begin by defining what Notre Dame is not with respect to its specialness. Slowly the one answer emerges. 
First, our specialness does not originate from football tra­dition, legendary though it is. There is no question that some of our fondest memories revolve around the home games, road trips and tail­gaters. But the accompanying media coverage that sensa­tionalizes our antics on and off the playing field merely prove my point as well as beg the question. Is there not more to 
DOONESBURY 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  E-Mail  Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu  
631-7471  Unix  observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu  


DOMESTRUCK 
life at Notre Dame than foot­ball? 
Of course there is. But for the scant ten of you who have answered affirmatively, I shall make another distinction. Second, Notre Dame is not spe­cial because of our high acade­mic standards. Although U.S. News and World Report insists that a great American uni­versity must meet certain quan­tifiable criteria, few of us think the faculty-student ratio and number of endowed chairs con­tribute to our specialness. Which is not to say we do not or should not aspire to excel acad­emically. That component of Notre Dame simply does not address the question of special­ness. 
Third, and I will go out on a limb here, our specialness does not derive solely from our being a Catholic school. Our religious affiliation contributes immense­ly toward our specialness, but it does not encapsulate it alone. There is still something more to Notre Dame. For why don't people in general speak as passionately and with as much vigor about Brigham Young or Southern Methodist Universities? 
Finally, the basic features tha.t apply to all college settings do not make us special. By these features I refer to the gradual or abrupt exposure of our iflnocence, the discovery of truth'i through experimentation and discernment, and all the other pursuits that seem to inhere with young adulthood. These tremendously eye-open­ing experiences conceivably could have occurred at Northwestern, Georgetown or Duke. So what of Notre Dame? 
One may argue that each of these points which I rejected as grounds for being special actu­ally make us unique. For example, how many football programs are as annually suc­cessful? Or, how many univer­sities can boast of such a truly national and international com­munity? 
Each of these facets, though admirable, indeed make us unique but not really special. Friedrich Nietzsche was surely unique. So is Madonna. But who wants to be unique for the sake of being unique? 
Moreover, our specialness is not rooted in a comparative scale where we are special only because we "succeed" more than the next school. 
Rather, what has made, still makes, and will always make Notre Dame special is its peo­ple. All the dimensions of the Notre Dame experience -the cherished football seasons, the stellar academic performances, the inspirational effects of our religious identity and the fea­tures one finds at any universi­ty -conspire to create our spe­cialness. The actions of our people, however, make these dimensions come to life and have meaning. 
There is something en­dearing, something genuine, something hopeful about all these gifted scholars, these accomplished artists, and these compassionate friends. Regardless of their chosen avenue toward finding excel­lence, the members of the Notre Dame family, each one of them, seem similarly guided by the aim to do right for the world, thus giving rise to our uncanny unity. 
To a certain extent, unity should naturally result from any college setting: groups of people with similar ages, inter­ests, values·and levels of matu­rity flock together to learn and grow. But the fact remains that few schools can boast of the unified spirit that seems to elec­trify Notre Dame. People here seem to care about one another just a little more than the real world does. That realization, I think, hastens our thanksgiving as well as our sadness in leav­
. ing. 

I am not claiming that we are perfect or even believe we are. Instead, I think that the blend­ing of our unique dimensions makes for what could only be 
called the  Notre Dame  ex­ 
perience, and it is special.  
What  has  been  most  ex­ 

hilarating is that this expe­rience dovetails beautifully with our overarching goal of educat­ing ourselves. As long as we lead the multidimensional life that Notre Dame offers, we are assured of becoming richer and more learned people. 
So let us take ourselves back to that grassy piece of earth out in the middle of God quad. Let us rest assured that we can lie in the midst of much challenge and hardship while the wind sweeps across our worried tem­ples. Let us know that, for all the world's difficulties, there will always be a place we can return to, a people we can trust. Let us celebrate the time we have had together. Let us remember and be glad. 
Bong Miquiabas is graduating from the College of Art and 
Letters. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Friday, May 13, 1994 page 17
VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR PAUL PEARSON IDEAS AND IDEALS 
O'Hara blesses Class of '94 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to take this opportunity to extend my prayers and best wishes to the members of the Class of 1994. Commencement is a time of many mixed emotions. Pride in your achievements, excitement and apprehension about new beginnings, happiness and sad­ness come together as you pre­pare to leave. 
For those of you who are graduating Seniors, I hope we have achieved our goal of pro­viding you with an education that integrates the life of the mind with the life of the heart. May your commitment to your faith in God and to service of His people match your dedica­tion to your chosen vocation and profession. Notre Dame 
has high expectations of its graduates. The tremendous contribution that our alumni make to society and to the Church is a testament to the 
' I hope we have 
achieved our goal of providing you with an education that integrates the life of the mind with the life of the heart.' 
importance of these high expec­tations. 
For those of you leaving with graduate and professional degrees, I hope that you will carry with you the best of our traditions as they relate to your discipline. If you bring to your chosen field a strong set of ethi­cal convictions and a commit­ment to justice, you will repre­sent the very best of Notre Dame. 
Finally, a note of gratitude to all of you. You not only take from here; you also give. You have made a variety of contri­butions to your colleagues, to the institution and to those of us who remain behind to assist students who will follow you. 
May our Lady, Notre Dame, continue to watch over you in the years ahead. We are blessed to have you as mem­bers of the Notre Dame family. 
PATRICIA O'HARA 
Vice President for Student Affairs 

Our Lady remains the source 
Dear Editor: 
Before I graduate from Notre Dame, I wish to share with my community what I think makes Notre Dame a great university. I believe that devotion to Our Blessed Mother is the essence of what makes Notre Dame a great university. 
I also believe that Father Sorin knew this, and that is why he named this school Our Lady's University, and that is also why he desired to have a golden dome on the administra­tion building with a statue of Our Lady atop. Sorin must have wanted everyone who came here to know that we honor Our Lady because she is the source of this University's greatness. 
John. The saints have consis­At this point I'll wager that tently interpreted this as thatsome of you are wondering why action by which Jesus gave His
I am not mentioning Jesus. 
mother to be the mother of all Well, I am mentioning Jesus. 
of those who seek to follow
The only reason that we are de­Him. Thus Mary is our spiritualvoted to Our Lady is because mother, given to us by Jesusshe leads us straight to Jesus. 
Himself. What does it mean toShe is His mother and she be a spiritual mother? It means
knows Him better than any 
that she desires only to lead usother human being ever will. 
to Jesus.
Besides that, the Gospel ac­Any university is great onlycording to St. John says that 
insofar as it images Jesus
the second to last thing Jesus 
Christ. Insofar as this
did before he died on the cross University is devoted to Ourwas to give His mother to St. 
Lady, we have a better chance 
KIRSTEN DUNNE 
than anyone else when it comes to imaging God Incarnate. 
We could all do well to medi­tate upon the following words of St. Maximilian Kolbe: "Do not be afraid to love the Immaculata too much, because we could never equal the love that Jesus has for her, and imi­tation of Him is our sanctifica­tion." 
DAVID WADE Senior Grace Hall 

at the Har.vard?" 
yqu. Even if it differs from whatthe Church itself will tell you. After all, you have spent 
.fo9r years in a place that takes is Christianity very seri­Ollsly, If Notre Dame has 
anuni~i .Mll.e its job, fl\en yoil h given t}l,e matter of Jesus' 
t~achings a great deal of tl"l()l1ght. . . Certainly, you have some­t}ling tp contribute to the . t del.):ate of:religion. ortunately. the Catholic (f~urch has a long history of sQ.pp.-essjilg optnions that dif· ·fer from their own. Their .. _ isthat they are the only · · p . e in the w:orld With the cttPability of determining what God wants. (Humble,. aren't 
t}ley?) AE · · · Ifyou·'~re concerneq about w}Iat other people or Church Q,Ql~lals will think about your 
opinions, don't he. Re111eml)er, Jesus was, among oth~r thjngs, a rabbi who got· his church officials mad as ]}ell because what he taughtw5is notto their liking. ... It may also help to remem­ber that Galileo was once ~alled a heretic for stating his beliefs. 
These days, there are a lot of issues~ ,__,_ abortion. capital punishment, prayer in schools, etc. -being debated 
·iri the Christian community> The Church comes out with its 
.····~ ·A lot of people
·witl"l them, Some don't, say so. as Aquinas is 
· he tells us that · arid reason eventually re~ch the same conclu~ 
th~n the Church should Jr1lidoia little healthy friends. 
............."'"'·-" should not b~ either. 

~ 0~i&tl~~l\ ·)~:r:··;
Pf!:ul Pe(irson is a 1993 gradu­~~lf. of Notre Da,me and a for­lfHtr news wrtterfor The Observer. He workS as Q tg[itet/eJ}.ttor for .<t tri-lingual n~wspaju~r in Tampa, Florida. 
DESIDERATA 

Remember the Justice, and then find a legacy 
We lost perhaps the greatest Justice of the century in 1990 when William Brennan, Jr., retired from the United States Supreme Court. 
Recently, however, a man who closely approached him in brilliance and equity left the Court, this being Harry Blackmun. Unfortunately, Blackmun's achievements have been somewhat overshadowed by criticisms and conjec­tures as to his replacement. 
I suppose it is only natural to espouse curiosity about the next person to be chosen to sit among the greatest minds of our nation. This is only human. What I suggest is that we must concomitantly pay due respect to he who is stepping down after a long, distinguished career. 
It is also natural to criticize those with whom we disagree; indeed, it is a consti­tutionally protected right. Justice Blackmun himself would be among the first to join in this sentiment, for his opinions evinced a deep respect for the First Amendment and its necessity to the free flow of ideas. 
However, propriety dictates that there are certain occasions when reproof, albeit natural and constitutional, is unprofessional and inappropriate. I be­lieve that the commencement of a career as honorable as Justice Blackmun's-or, indeed, any Supreme Court Justice -is such a time. 
Some of the negative commentary lacks merit in the first place. If we assert, for example, that it was inappo­site for Blackmun to announce a strong disagreement with the death penalty on the grounds that it contravenes current law, we ignore the fact that "the law of the land" does not always comport with moral acceptability. Along this reason­ing it would be equally inapt for a Justice to dissent from the state of the law on abortion. This is a proposition which I, and I suspect many others, would wholeheartedly reject. 
A more cogent line of attack is that it was Blackmun himself who authored the landmark opinion of Roe v. Wade, declaring abortion's legality. Here I agree with his critics, for I believe the case was wrongly decided and has had numerous unfortunate repercussions. But I propose that now is the time, not to criticize the Justice, but to reflect upon his positive contributions to the law, which, I might add, are many. 
My personal favorite among 
. Blackmun's opinions is his 1986 dissent in Bowers v. Hardwick, wherein the majority affirmed the legality of an anti­sodomy statute. On the surface, Blackmun's opinion, dealing with the question presented, asserted that people -specifically homosexuals -had the right to engage in the sexual behavior of their choice. However, this opinion is replete with appreciation of the capacity and right of people-all people -sim­ply to love others. 
Blackmun's Bowers dissent can cer­tainly be construed as having applica­tion to individuals other than homosexu­als, for he argued generally that "(a) way of life that is odd or even erratic ... is not to be condemned because it is dif­ferent." I for one can say that, even as a heterosexual, I relate fully to this line of reasoning. So, I would imagine, could anyone who has ever loved a person of a different race, a different age group, or of different religious convictions than oneself. 
For better or for worse, the turbulent emotion of love does not come in neat packages. Unfortunately, however, soci­ety continues to wish that it would, and in so aspiring manages to harm those people whose love does not meet its standards. Justice Blackmun sought to demonstrate the unfairness of such prej­udice. 
It is also quite clear that Justice Blackmun deeply appreciates the aspect of loving relationships which is eminent­ly more important than physical intima­cy -the emotional bond. Because of the question facing the Court, the Justice necessarily discussed the former at some length. But in asserting that the framers "recognized the significance of man's spiritual nature, of his feelings and of his intellect", and in arguing for our rights to "satisfy... emotional needs", he revealed his true concern. And what an honorable one it was! 
Again, I recognize that Justice Blackmun is not perfect. I disagreed with him in Roe and on a host of other occasions as well. But the man has just completed a distinguished period of ser­vice to our nation, and now is the time to commend him for his achievements rather than to condemn him for his mis­takes. 
For me this comes easily. To quote an inspirational phrase I came across recently -chalked on the sidewalk, of all places -Justice Blackmun sought to "lift the veil of oppression." The writing on the sidewalk will fade away, but the message will not. 
Justice Blackmun, thank you. 
Kirsten Dunne is a second year law stu­dent. 
ACCE,NT 
page 18 Friday, May 13, 1994 
The truth about life after graduation 
BY BEVIN KOVALIK Hendrick said. "Landlords are being able to do what they For some, however, life after Mullaney, Grace Hall senior 
Assistant Accent Editor notorious for ripping you off, choose, and they feel they have college is an opportunity to find and future grad student study­and everything costs more much more flexibility in their the real action. ing nuclear engineering of sub­money than you think, especial­lives. "As far as my social life is marines.
The "Real World" is the part 
ly in Chicago." McCaffrey plans to eventually concerned-anything is better Most seniors welcome theof the universe lurking outside "Living on my own was not a go back to school, but right now than Notre Dame," said John challenge of independence and the safety zone beyond home 
shock, but more responsibilities she enjoys "the freedom to Hudalla, a Morrissey Hall breaking free from some of theand school where women and exist now like making sure all change jobs when she wants to senior entering a career as a college confines. 
men are thrown into residence 
the bills are paid," said Parch, a and the chance to get to know design engineer for Ford in "I don't feel like I am beingafter graduating from college. 
1990 Notre Dame grad with a the country." She works as a Dearborn, Mich. totally cut lose," Waterkotte"It's just like you're still in the Math degree. general manager for the "I look forward to keeping my said, "but I do fear the uncer­
college mode, but you don't 
Post-graduates do have a lot Y.W.C.A. in Minneapolis and own hours and being indepen­tainty about what city I'll be liv­have to study." 
of advice to hopes to land a job with dent," he added. ing in a few years from now." 
This is the essence of the 
Outward Bound. "I am just "This is the time in my life to
"Real World," according to 
Among the many challenges excited to be .,_.._ just do what I think is right. It's 
Peter Hendrick, a 1988 
t h a t getting my own the first lesson in really making Michigan State University grad­
apartment my own decisions," Waterkotte 
uate with a degree in English. .-J11ff111'!111/llA1&~ after four added.Eileen McCaffrey, a 1991 
These decisions will perhaps

graduate of St. Michael's 
be foreign to some who haveCollege in Vermont with a ,.~~ 

found comfort in the rules 

Philosophy degree, and routine of Notre 
admits that this is her Dame life. 
time "to play" and "to "Notre Dame is such do what she wants 
a safe community

to do." 
and I have gotten

Is life after col­
used to being

lege really more around a certainwild than col­
quality of peo­

lege? 
ple," MullaneyWell, these explained. "I 

men and 
will definitelywomen may 

the

have gradu­
sense ofated into 

Notre Dame

the real 
c o mworld, and munity."

according 
"Now is to them, it the time to 

is not alf prove to fun and 
yourself that 

games. 
you can sur­"I certain­vive and live ly make a lot 

on your

more money 
own," said now," said 

Carrane, a Ken Parch, a 

1991 grad of

twenty-four 
John Carroll year old com-University in 

puter pro-
Cleveland with a 

grammer for a 
sociology degree. 

Chicago financial For others, after 
company. 
graduation a marriage"It's not at all what I and a family becomesthought it would be like," 

"Go part of the master plan.
Hendrick said. "It's a lot 
to grad "My priorities have changed
more competitive than 
school!" "real life" pre­after marriage," Parch shared.
thought and good opportunities 
P a r c h sents are intimidation and com­"I just don't go out to the bars are harder to come by." 
urged. petition. with my friends every FridayThere is also a great deal of 
"My phi­"At first I found the world dorms," night anymore." 
added stress after graduation, 
losophy is, very intimidating, but it is reas­a i d Mullaney is also looking for­according to Molly Carrane, a 
'Don't expect to suring to remember that I am Waterkotte who ward to eventually starting a
twenty-four year Chicago resi­
get a career right away,"' competing against a crowd will live and work in her home family.
dent working as an assistant 
McCaffrey advised. "Not even a that's not as talented as most state of Arizona in order to save "If you find the right person,
director of development for 
Ph.D. is guaranteed a job would think," Hendrick said. money for medical school. don't wait," Parch said. 
Head Start. 
today." Many seniors are excited by However, it is not a bad idea "Marriage was tough at first McCaffrey said she has had to Many graduates have found a the challenges they face in the to lean on your parents while because my wife did not go to face many more responsibilities 
sunny side of not jumping into a "real world" and welcome the there is still time-that is, if you Notre Dame and I still wantedsince leaving college. ''I'm not career right away-plenty of adventure of a new lifestyle. still get along with them. to go back and visit, but it just
surprised about the things I 
time to try everything out. "I look forward to rubbing "Since I lived in the dorms all didn't mean the same thing to 
have to worry about, its just 
"Don't let the lack of a good shoulders with real people," four years, I took a lot of stuff her." 
that there is so much more to 
job get you down and stop you said Howard Hall senior and for granted in college when my Other graduates who are set­worry about now," McCaffrey from doing what you really English major Andrea Feaster. parents would pay for things," ting out without any set com­added. "Just things like having want to do," Carrane said. "You She is planning to work as a Parch said. mitments or engagement are medical insurance and the right can always switch until you find freelance writer. "I am planning to live at facing a lot of free time, and kind of security." 
something you like." "I want to keep the balance home in Indianapolis for the worse yet, a lot of free time According to graduates, rec­Parch suggests graduates find between family and friends," summer to save some money alone. 
tors and room and board are 
roommates to share living said Cheryl Waterkotte, a for an apartment in the fall," "I just don't know what I'm not as bad a s everyone once expenses because it is hard to Howard Hall senior and Pre­Feaster said. going to do all day," Feaster thought. 
get much from your rent med major. "I have gotten used "I think I'll be able to manage said.
"You can't be as trusting as 
money, especially in big cities. to my circle of friends and the real world because I am so "Being on my own?" Mullaney 
you can be in college," 
Many post-graduates like activities." independent now," said Kevin said. "I dig it!" 
Seniors' anxiety eased by Zevin's "Guide" 
By ELIZABETH REGAN Saint Mary's Editor 
As graduation approaches and many seniors are left without a clue as to what comes next, their fears may be put at ease because many answers lie in Dan Zevin's book "Entry-Level Life: A Complete Guide to Masquerading as a Member of the Real World .." 
In the first chapter Entry-Level Housing, Zevin's humorous anecdotes give readers pointers about finding an apartment, dealing with landlords and unsuspecting guests weeding out the less than desirable roommates of this world, cooking edible entrees, and decorating a pad of one's own. 
After escaping the familiar setting of the college town, Zevin suggests moving to a city where jobs in your particular field are plentiful. 
After finding the city of your dreams, or at least one in which a job is a possi­bility, the switch from dorm life to an apartment does not have to be difficult, according to Zevin's book. 
Zevin gives instructions on scanning the classifieds, signing the lease, meet­ing neighbor's, and preparing the new apartment for the move. 
After finding the perfect roommate, Zevin recommends furnishing the new apartment. 
Zevin offers suggestions for less expensiv~ items. He elaborates on the possibilities of a milk crate and advises raiding both the parents' attic and the local Salvation Army. 
After establishing a permanent resi­dence, the next step in the real world is finding a job. 
Zevin recommends faking a resume for those with little or no experience. The final section of the book deals with your new social life as a member of the real world. Zevin explains that socializ­ing without college buddies can be a tough adjustment. 
He analyzes the "none of my new friends are as cool as my old friends" syndrome, that is prevalent among many recent college graduates. 
He suggests tips for entering a world of cocktail parties despite the yearning for a good college keg party. 
Finally, Zevin concludes with a section on real world dating. SYR's and dog book dates exist no longer after gradua­tion, so these tips will be helpful for sin­gle Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents that are ready to settle down but have spent their entire college career getting "set up." 
ACCENT
page 19 Friday, May 13, 1994 

Shannon Schwarz continues her schooling on stage 
By LYNN BAUWENS work. 
The work of very supportive. I bring home 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor "I do not think a director is the videotapes every year, but of the theater as not easy. being so far away, they really work," she said. Schwarz has have no idea how much work I 
Three days after she arrived "It is more my found it chal­do." at Saint Mary's, Shannon life now. I like to lenging, but Schwarz's work on campus Schwarz auditioned for a play write and direct rewarding. has not gone unnoticed. even though her only previous the best. Even Shwarz received the excellence experience with the theater though I have "I find step­in theater award from the de­was a high school production. been in many ping back and partment at Saint Mary's. Now a graduating senior, plays as an trying to get a Schwarz was bitten by the 'act­actress, I still clear view the "I wanted to thank everyone­ing bug' early and has been think of myself as most challeng­especially the department," she involved in at least one and a writer and a ing. I get very said. "They have been so sup­often as many as four produc­director." caught up in portive. It has been phenome­tions a semester. the moment. nal." 
Schwarz kept Trying to keep "I am all over the place in the herself busy this it together as After graduation, Schwarz theater," admitted the English semester with a big picture plans to continue to pursue her Writing, Literature, and directing is the big chal­love for the theater. She has Theater triple major. "Twelfth Night," lenge of a been accepted into the New 
acting in "You director," she York University graduate pro­Aside from her busy aca­Can't Take it with explained. gram but plans to take a year demic and rehearsal schedule, You," and pre-The Katy, off to work professionally in
wrote it in January of this year, 
Schwarz finds time to work as a senting her own piece. Texas, native does not have New York. 
rewrote it in February and
house manager and stage man­Schwarz ·wrote and directed theater in the blood, but she
March and felt that it was ready
ager at O'Laughlin Auditorium. her own play, "Facing Julia," says that her family is artistic. "I am looking forward to the
to be presented," she said. "It
She also spends her time as an which was presented April 29 While they have been unable to real world," Schwarz said. 
came together in April. The
actress. writer, designer, direc­and 30. visit Shwarz to see a production She plans to continue writing 
actors became the characters­
tor and producer. Despite the on stage, they are supportive. and directing, hoping someday 
it was like talking to the
long hours that she dedicates to "My favorite overall experi­"They humor me," she said to make it big and take her
character that I created-a
the theater, she enjoys the ence was 'Facing Julia.' I laughing. "They are actually work to Broadway.
manifestation of what I wrote." 
-~--­

page 20 The Observer• LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, May 13, 1994 
Saying "Yes" to the greater glory of God 
Being a Catholic can mean being like a bird trying to fly on one wing. As a member of a religion which has so many answers-and so many petty­popes willing to supply me with answers-I become cynical about ever learning what the truth is, and then every smug­minded Christian in sight starts to look like a phony. Fighting for the right to sort out my doubts, I realize that I myself must sound like a phony to oth­ers. 
Belonging to a Church as an­cient as ours is, we carry a lot of luggage. It's tempting to say we should forget the dogma, and concentrate our efforts on loving one another; but then love would be a sweet idea that has no anchor. A revealed reli­gion doesn't mean that those who profess it should be mind­less. Any religion in which all the doctrines have become cut and dried has no great claim to be a living religion. But does staying alive as a Catholic mean having the outlook half the time of a heretic? I wouldn't be at all surprised. 
I had lunch this week with Brian, an alum of recent vin­tage, who is shopping for a reli­gious order he can join to become a priest. He was appro­priately excited at the idea of joining the God Squad, where the wind under his wings would be grace from Christ cross. 
As a young romantic, he was drunk on zeal, just from the idea of becoming a novice, "the world forgetting, by the world forgot." As a curmudgeon, I shouldn't have been talking to him, since he was more in a Catholic state of grace than I was. 

Even for the God Squad, 
Father Robert Griffin 
Belfers Ia a Bone.(y 9orf 

"They are not long, the days of wine and roses," and so I tried to warn Brian that once he entered, if he wanted to survive his first fervor as a seminarian, he would need the endurance of the lonely long-distance run­ner; he would need to generate his own grace under pressure, which Hemingway called "guts." In Knox's parody, "The tumult and the shouting dies,/The captains and the kings depart/ And we are left with large supplies/Of cold blancmange and rhubarb tart." 
Once the lad finds himself alone with the Alone, which can feel like nada, he might discov­er that nine-tenth of his voca­tion is sheer emotion. The other one-tenth could be enough to survive on, if he has guts or true grit. Brian explained how he had been in love, for a very long time, with a girl, to whom he spoke often of his interest in becoming a Jesuit or a Dominican. Finally, she asked him to decide between a monk's life or mar­riage. Apparently, that is when he said "Yes" to God's call, and when I asked him why, he an­swered as though he were the one-eyed man in the kingdom of the blind: "Don't you under­stand? It's for the great glory of God. 
Ad maiorem Dei gloriam ... "for the great glory of God" .. .is the motto of the Society of Jesus, but I wasn't sure if it applied to Brian's decision to become alter Christus. If Brian were to decide to become a husband and father, would that detract from the glory of God. I doubt whether God's greater glory would be diminished if Brian should choose a wife, and become one flesh with her. The lad could be suffering from spiritual pride if he thinks oth­erwise. 
As far as I was concerned, my lunch with Brian had turned into a bust, for we'd been talk­ing all the while at Cross-pur­poses. From where he was on Cloud Nine, he didn't want to hear that God does not need man's work to keep Him glori­ous as the Numero Uno. Maybe Brian, being more innocent, knows more about the greater glory of God than I do. Why should I presume to warn him not to be confused by a sales pitch for the religion that even doctors of the Church have used? 
Brian would have been scan­dalized if I had advised him to avoid reading the Christian masterworks, in search of inspiration. A beginner can get lost in the honeycomb of conso­lations which the saints promise us will be there, at the end of life's day. 
A lad can be disappointed when he discovers that honey from the rock will not be avail­able to him very soon. Even members of the Dead Poets' Society know that the mass of men lead lives of quiet despera­tion. It's the same way with Christian when they're starting out. Catholics with vocations are typically kept an arm's length away from the Lonely God; and it might feel to them that the vocation they have is to be lonely Catholics, going home by the way of the Cross. Faith can mean that you're flying blind, placing all your reliance on a wing and a prayer. 
Still, the jewel of great price is a grain of faith that we can harvest from reading a Gildeon Bible found in a hotel room Faith should make us aware that "it was for this grotesque world a God died," and there­fore we should be bitterly ashamed of what we have made of ourselves as a human race. Graham Gre.~ne says, "Man needs, if not a faith, at least a superstition to live by." The Frenchman Malraux wrote: "The genius of Christianity is to have proclaimed that the path to the deepest mystery is the path oflove." 
Is it an insult to the intelli­gence to believe that God is Love, as we learn from the gen­erosity of Christ in giving Himself up for us? Of course, the scandal of the Church is in the way the members are divid­ed by lovers' quarrels; insulted by the politics of religious love we tend to feel wing-weary as Christians. Rilke wrote: "We are all falling./ This hand's falling too-/all have this falling sickness none withstands./And yet there's always One whose gentle hands/this universal falling can't fall through." 
The Church often seems to be 
a picture-image of the world which is grotesque with selfish­ness; but in the Body of Christ, wherever sin abounds, grace abounds more. Mercy and for­giveness are available for the rank and file of us who fall by the wayside. In the Church, the love of God is made visible in the face of the Crucified; and of all the myths of Death and Transfiguration, Christ is the centerpiece. Why move away from Him. "All things betray thee, who betrayest Me." 
Even when love is in ruins, the Church will survive. Graham Greene has a story of the last Pope, doomed to rule over a Church which has ceased to exist. After every Catholic has been executed, the Pope alone is authorized to live, and there are no other sur­vivors. Finally, even he is called in, and told that the time has come for him to die on the spot, the last Christian who still believes. 
The ruling Big Brother "took a revolver out of his desk. He granted the Pope a moment to pray ... Then he shot him in the left side of the chest and leaned forward over the body to give the coup de grace. At that instant, in the second between the pressure on the trigger and the skull cracking, a thought crossed the Executioner's mind: 'Is it possible that what this man believed is true?' Another Christian had been born." 
For all I know, a lad like Brian could be destined to become the last Pope. Maybe someone as close at hand as Brian is, has been destined, by doing the work of the anti­Christ in pulling the trigger, to become the last Christian. Is anyone, from this time and place, asking: "Is it I. Lord?"? 

Aailable 
upstairs at the 

$19.95 paperback 
Hammes-Notre Dame Bookstore on campus 
from the University of 
Notre Dame Press 


THE CHALLENGE AND PROMISE OF A CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY 
$14.95 paperback 

Friday, May 13, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 

By BRENT KALLESTAD ·· ThE} notes released by the Associated Press ;;~v· school Thursday indicated the r 1·pdeptb ofFlorida. State's con· 
TALLAHASSEE•. Fla>' 

The investigation into the in~· volvement of. Florida State football players with sport agents isn't likely to end soon as th(} university ~a hoped. . .· . ' 
"Everyone might as well r 
lax," Charles Reed, the stat chancellor, said Thursdaf< ••, think it'll carry 6utfor 
while." 
School officials also release 
hundreds of pages of inform ... tion related to the school'~,in~.. quiry and its preparationJor at·' news conference last weekend } to discuss accusations against .···,· 

Hawks hand Pacers record-breaking loss -­
By ED SHEARER 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Atlanta held Indiana to the fewest points in NBA playoff history Thursday night as the Hawks, behind 20 points each from Danny Manning and Kevin Willis, tied the Eastern Conference semifi­nal series 1-1 with a 92-69 victory. 
Mookie Blaylock added 11 points, 13 assists and 10 rebounds for the Hawks, the fourth triple dou­ble of his career. 
Atlanta surged to a 61-42 lead halfway through the third quarter, then withstood a Pacers come­back that closed them to 65-57 on Reggie Miller's 3-point basket with a second left in the period. 
Miller scored 12 points and Derrick McKey 11 for Indiana, which plays host to Games 3 and 4 on Saturday and Sunday before returning to Atlanta Tuesday night for Game 5 .. 
The Hawks never trailed after breaking a 19-19 
tie on Willis' basket from the corner with just 
under nine seconds left in the first quarter. 
Duane Ferrell followed with a 3-pointer at the 
buzzer for a 24-19 lead, and Atlanta extended it 
to 30-21 early in the second on a layup and two 
free throws by Craig Ehlo and a 16-footer by 
Manning. 

Atlanta stretched the lead to 47-32 at halftime 
before a 6-0 run by the Pacers at the start of the 
third chopped into the lead. 


Photo courtesy of Indiana Pacers Dale Davis and the Pacers scored just 69 points Thursday, the lowest in NBA playoff history. 
Rockets hope to rebound from Game 2 debacle 
By MEL REISNER 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

Somehow, the Houston Rockets have to rebound from blowing a 20-point lead in the fourth quarter of Game 2 of the Western Conference semifinals. The question is, how? 
Their unusual dry spell -the Phoenix Suns outscored them 24-4 in the final 10 minutes to tie it, then made a 12-3 run in the first 3:40 of overtime ­shook the Rockets. 
"We had a chance to bury them," Rockets forward Otis Thorpe said. "ln fact, we had some dirt on them, but we just didn't fmish it." 
Phoenix won 124-117 Wednesday night, taking a 2-0 lead in the series which re­sumes Friday night in the America West Arena. 
The NBA doesn't keep track of comebacks from deficits in the fourth period, but the Rockets' 100-82 lead after three quar­ters made it the greatest rally in playoff history. The New York Knicks were 16 points down after three periods against Boston on April 22, 1973, but came back to win in double overtime. 
"We had nothing to lose," 
Phoenix forward A.C. Green 
said. "We were already down 
400,000 points or something." 
Now, the Suns have something to win. They could end the series Sunday without re­turning to Houston. And, if the Rockets want to erase memo­ries of the Phoenix comeback with one of their own, the time is now. 
"This is the biggest game of the season," Rockets guard Vernon Maxwell said Thursday. "That's what I feel like we have. I don't care if we go fur­ther or whatever. This is the biggest game of the season for us." 
Phoenix's Charles Barkley said virtually the same thing. 
"If we win Game 3, it's over. But if we lose, it's going to give them some serious confidence," Barkley said. 

I~ won't be easy for the Rock­ets. 
Phoenix has won its last 12 games, including seven during the regular season, and 13 straight at home. Only the 1969 Los Angeles Lakers have rallied to win a seven-game series af­ter losing the first two games at home. 
But Houston's Kenny Smith said it only took a short meeting Thursday to remind his team about its 15-game winning streak to start the season or an NBA-best 31-17 record against other playoff clubs, including a 2-2 split with the Suns. 
Phoenix, which came from 18 points behind in the second quarter to win the first game, 91-87, has run out of magic, he said. 
"We feel real confident," Smith said. "It took two miracle finishes to beat us, and I think the miracles are finished. Ev­erybody was a little down after the game, but it's a race to four. When four is over, that's when you celebrate." 
He said coach Rudy Tom­janovich emphasized getting back to basics. 
"There's certain things that were very successful against that team, so in that sense, I think overall the same things that were successful weren't successful for us Wednesday. So now we just have to evaluate why they weren't," Smith said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day &om 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. NEAR 4 bed 3 bath Oakhill apt for weekly EUROPE ONLY $229, NY $79 NO. STARTING AT $250. MO. AIRHITCH 1-800-326-2009 Call for 
summer rental. Call Mike@ 2136. I TICKETS 
GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 program descriptions! 
L...--_N_O_T_IC_E_S_.....~! L-1_\V;_l\_N_T_E_D
_ _J 

Raffle to benefit Clothe-A-Child. SUMMER/PERMANENT FULL FURNISHED APARTMENT FOR I I Helpl I need graduation tickets. 
FOR SALE 
Win Litho signed by all NO Heisman TIME $300/WEEK. WORK FOR RENT-ONE PERSON NEEDED, . . Please call Tracy-2377 or Football signed by all ENVIRONMENTAL AND CON­ALL UTILITIES PAID, VERY Three single lofts, getting bunks so Never Fail Novena NO Heis. or 2 94TIX ND/BYU or SUMER RIGHTS. WK HAS CLEAN! SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD, must sell. $40 apiece OBO. One Help! I need graduation tickets. May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be 2 94TIX & trip to ND/NoWest 1 :30-10:30 M-F. FOR INTERVIEW APARTMENT HAS OWN year old, built by carpentar Dad II Please call Mike-1651 praised, adored and glorified Limited # tickets-Drawing July 15 CALL 232-7905 ENTRANCE. 232-0355 call x1101 ask for Sean throughout the whole world, now Send $10, name,address,phone to Sell me your ticket and forever. Most Sacred Hearl of Christ Child Society, 16122 On and off campus newspaper car­Looking for student tenants I need one graduation ticket. Jesus, I put my trust in You. Holy Baywood Ln., riers, branch managers, sales per­Near NO -clean, furnished apart­'86 HONDA CRX FOR SALE Will pay$$! Mary, Mother of Jesus, pray for me. Granger, IN 46530 sonnel needed for fall 94 semester. ment houses: 755 South Bend Ave Graduating-Must sell I Call Matt 273-8859 St. Theresa, Child of Jesus, pray for 
Contact City News Service Inc., (1 blk west of Notre Dame Ave) 1 • Great looking, blue, 2 door me, St. Jude, helper of hopeless $$FOR BOOKS @ PANDORA'S 232-3205 or 288-9361 for informa­bdrm-240, effeciency-215; 607 E. • 5-Spd, 90k miles, reliable I NEED GRADUATION TIX!! causes, pray for me and grant this everyday but sunday until 5:30pm tion or application. Corby (3 blocks west of Notre Dame • $3,500 or best offer WILL PAY$$$$$$ favor that I ask. 233-2342 NO ave & Howard Ave) 2bdrm $330, 1-bdrm $260; Call Scott 6343984 PLEASE CALL MIKE @259-4986. 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­519 E. Corby-2bdrm $280+heat mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860-drive by f1rst, call for appointment, Helpll! Need extra graduation tix 
ILOST & FOUND I 
0219 deposit, references 10 SPEED BIKE.272-6306 for family. Call Sean @273-3920. 
1-800-582-9320 Top 10 reasons LOST-Dark green, suede back­EXCITING SUMMER OPPORTUNI­2 couches -$75ea./OBO 256-6604 NO grad wants to see her l'il to hang out in the 6 man. pack in front of Pangborn on Sat. TY FOR SMC/ND STUDENT. HELP GRADUATE STUDENT bro graduate but needs ticket! Call 10. Hazel doesn't mind when we're (23). It contains important notes for FOR PROFESSIONAL FAMILY ON Airline tix Fe. Jon@x3054 to help! loud. finals. Please call Jenna at x2349 if DIAMOND LAKE-JUNE 15-AUG. Need a roof over your head for the AT from S Bend to All. $140. 9. Cam's course in physical fitness. found. No questions asked II! 15. APPROX. $1000/MO. summer? I have a room to rent. Good til Aug 94. 271-7280. Lve 8. Weeder loved it when "FIRST we 
234-1946. Less than 5 mins. from campus. msg. topped it off ...THEN we washed it." MISSING: A Cotton Bowl jacket with Call Sandy at 272-6194. PERSONAL 7. Duff will buy you a new three keys and IDs. It was last seen Nice &safe home &area. phone ... even if Thud is the only one on Sun. the 24th at 12 noon in PE's WANTED: '91 Red Mere Capri Convertible Congratulations Lamps, Brems who uses it. 24 hr. lounge. If you know of its POWER PUSH MOWER. " SUMMER RENT" 34K, AM/FM Cassette, AC, Power and Cammy-butt. Grace will never 6. BB says. "Lamps' face is a great whereabouts please contact Jeanne 272-6194. Urgently need a sublettor. 1 mile Locks, $8500. Call 233-5773. be the same with out you -I'll miss place to practice A art. • at x3465 or Michelle at x4376. from campus at Oahill condo. you guys next year. Take care!! 5. Brems likes 'Peens 
Available May-Aug. Only 200$/mo. Love, Pooler 4. It's a great place to see fresh­LOST: Gold Class Ring. JFK High FOR RENT Own bedroom/bath. Will have two 87 Red Camara Lt, VB, loaded, 45k men pitch domination. School. Blue Stone. "Suzanne roommates. Call Tony at 271-1400 miles, 1 owner, immaculate. $6700. Congratulations Steve, Sheila, 3. The stank is oh so sweet! Kathryn" inscribed on inside. Please BED 'N.BREAKFAST REGISTRY 684-0957 Nicole and Christine from your fel­2. It's better than the tool shed. call x4638. ND/SMC EVENTS " SUMMER RENT" low world travelers. Hope the 1. They're the classiest bunch of 
(219)291-7153 Urgently need a sublettor. 1 mile Sanskrit comes in handy! guys under the dome. Lost-Tl81 Calculator from campus at Oahill condo. FOR SALE: Single bed with frame, Thanks tor everything, Lost in Fitzpatrick on Monday Available May-Aug. Only 200$/mo. arm chair, love seat sofa, large Petes, Dungs, Draus, Plum, BB and night. If found , please call BULLA ROAD 3 BDRM. WALK TO Own bedroom/bath. Will have two bookcase. Will deliver to your stor­*************BOKI!!!! ***********••• Scraps. Vince at x1871. Reward. CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW 272-6306 roommates. Call Tony at 271-1400 age site. Best offer. 273-4979 
·"·"'·"·"·"'·"·"·"·"·"'·"'·"·•·•·~·" ·"·"·'. .,.,., • .,,.·'·"·'·"1f,,·'·'·'.•·'·'.•·'_, J1f1f.r .r _., ·'.r ·' ·' .r .r .r ·'·' ·' ·' .r-'·'·' _,.,,,·';,·' ·' ·"·' ·' .r.•r ·' .r ·' ,r ·'·' ·' ·'.r ·' ·' ·' ·' ·' ·'.1 ·'JfJill ;t ·'·'·'·' .• .• ,,_,.-·'·' ·' ·' .• .• ·' ·' ·' .• .•;.•·' • " • """"""""'I 
Friday, May 13, 1994

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
New York defense knicking Bulls title hopes 
ByRICKGANO York Knicks are stripping the wear down," Bulls coach Phil The Bulls had a 15-point lead Associated Press basketball with an annoying Jackson said after a film and in the second half of Game 1 
fourth-quarter defense that has practice session Thursday. but shot only 5-of-16 in the fi­
CHICAGO produced a 2-0 series lead. "You pull a sled around like a nal period and lost 90-86. 
The Chicago Bulls' three-year "They put the physical pres­dog train for a while and you In Game 2 Wednesday night, reign as NBA champions is slip­sure on you the whole game got their body to carry and Chicago led by eight in the sec­ping away because the New and by the fourth quarter you yours for three quarters." ond half but was shut out for 


.. ·Congramlations!~u~Made:It~~ , . ~~----Now_::1he~_Sta.IIS:_~___,,·_.· _._.__ 
~~--..Class _of_~4_TQyota_Colle_ge___Grad_Program.___""'_ ..... ____. ~--~-· -~Payment. No_PaymentFor__2Q_Days~r-~...:.,......._.____ ~ 
Shifting from school to carecr_means adopting -~es::".~ilich~.o.ur_lease.plan whiclt_~ 
-~hole new mind set. WnrdsJike.dep.endable..a~requires_nQ.Se.cudt_>:: depJlsit...Either_WP}L}:milL__~ qualit_>:: bec.ome part of daey~_omersation. Eac_e__it._..___r~;ume~yearfte.e.roadside .assistanc.e..phm_ .·.·' __ _ you've entered..th.ue..cd.w.m:kllkalit~ however, ..·· _fuuckkd5.e.curity,.EYen1Lyou're_gn~duatlng _----"-~ does hav_e_its..f\rnmoments~Iilith~within sixJD.ontb.s,.y_o1lr.e.s.till.eJigible.Jus.L...._...............~ 
--1!1!'!'!!'!!~~1---CclLca...£a5Jeo.._~fe.rcelar.1xi-___ .,..diaLl:JillO::CONGRAIS.£oLthe.details._5o_whaL._._·-· ~~,~~!--~~,!..Ud...----~~tM-~ru..u.v--e,.-t"'~4-.,...---®.+0VOTA.~·-'-­_.JiliD£JIWia.ttl.e...:MinJ::Te:mrr..,...:........-,_c.__~1wi.SSion.L-~~---~'!fove whatJ'!!!1_do for me:' .. 



more than five minutes to start the final period. The Bulls missed 12-of-16 shots in the quarter. 
In the two games, the Knicks have outscored Chicago 55-34 in the fourth quarter. 
"I take pleasure in shutting a team down in the fourth quar­ter. I like the look they get on their faces," said New York's rugged forward Anthony Ma­son. 
"We need to finish off games when we have the lead in the fourth quarter. I feel we'll play a lot better at home," said Scottie Pippen, who had 22 points and missed 10-of-15 shots before fouling out Wednesday night. 
"When they're pressing us and we're on the road, you can't hear your teammates telling you the shot clock is running down. That will help a lot when we're back home." 
Need they be reminded before Friday night's Game 3 at Chicago Stadium, the Bulls lost the first two games in New York a year ago and then re­grouped to win four straight en route to their third straight ti­tle. 
But that's when they had the current right fielder of the Birmingham Barons, a guy named Jordan, there to take the game over the final min­utes. 
"Put it this way. If he was here, we would have won these two ball games," said Horace Grant. 
But he's not and the Bulls are 
not making the plays or the 
shots in the stretch against New 
York's relentless defensive 
pressure. 
"I don't think our problem is 
offense," Pippen said. "I think 
it's stopping them on defense 
and not letting them have sec­
ond shots. 
"We have to win this next 
game. Maybe it will start them 
thinking about last year. But we 
have to play all four quarters, 
not just the first three." 
Added Bulls guard B.J. Arm­
strong: "Because of fatigue, 
personnel, foul trouble, you've 
got guys out there who aren't 
experienced at playing at that 
point in the game. We have to 
learn how to do things down 
the stretch." 
New York guard John Starks, who hit a pair of 3-pointers in the final quarter Wednesday night, says the Knicks learned from their playoff elimination last year. 
"We know what the situation 
is and how to control it this 
year," he said. "We have to go 
out to Chicago and play much 
harder than we did last year. 
We had the attitude that we 
could afford to give a game 
away. But we can't do that." 
Game 4 of the best-of-7 series 
is Sunday in Chicago. 
"We should be confident, but 
not overconfident," Knicks cen­
ter Patrick Ewing said. "We're 
going to have to take our game 
to another level when we get to 
Chicago Stadium." 
And so must the Bulls, if they 
hope to send this series back to 
New York. 

r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 23

Friday, May 13, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
Barkley, Suns may be sneaking up on title 
By JIM LITKE 
Associated Press 
The idea of Charles Barkley sneaking up on something or someone other than Godzilla sounds laughable. With 252 pounds spread across a 6-foot-6 frame, it seems sheer bulk would rule out such stealth, even on those occasions when Barkley's even bigger mouth doesn't give him away first. 
But in this strange playoff sea­son -when first fisticuffs, then the Sanies' monumental col­lapse, and then the bitter New York-Chicago rivalry have dom­inated headlines -Chuck and the rising Suns are sneaking up on a championship with maxi­mum efficiency and a minimum of fuss. 
Stranger still is the idea that Barkley might actually prefer it 

that way. It sounded reasonable, partic­Barkley's lead, made up a 20-Houston and Phoenix, anybody "We don't care about any of ularly since the Suns hadn't point deficit against the Rockets east of the Mississippi had to that," Barkley said Thursday awakened until sometime in the last 10 minutes of regu­catch the late edition of during a brief appearance in around the start of the fourth lation before winning 124-117 "Sportscenter" or read deep the Phoenix locker room on a period Wednesday night. That in overtime. into the morning paper for de­
rare day off. "We want to be was when Phoenix, following While this was big news in tails. 
the first team to 15 (wins and a title) and we've got 10 more to go. 
"And that," he said, heading for the door, "is all we care 

about." 
As if to prove his point, on a day when his teammates should have basked in the limelight of biggest fourth-quarter come­back in NBA playoff history, they were nowhere in sight. 
A scheduled 10 a.m. start time for practice came and went without any Sun. That left a Phoenix spokesman to explain belatedly that the team arrived home from Houston at 2 a.m. and didn't want to be bothered with alarm clocks. 
To our Super "Boy,"
Greg, 
Who's become a Super "Man." 
Congratulations on your Graduation! 
We're so proud! 
Love, Mom, Dad, &Gerald 
Good luck in all your future endeavors! Thanks for all you did over the years to help us fulfill our mail distribution mission. 
Kara Courtois Patricia Greenwood Michael McNamee William Wardell 
Best wishes from all of us in su 

CONGRATULATIONS LONDON PROGRAM STUDENTS 
in the 

Class of '94 
Age doesn't hinder Unser's title quest 
By MIKE HARRIS 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS 
Age is a variable in driving a race car that AI Unser simply chooses to ignore. 
The four-time winner of the Indianapolis 500 will turn 55 on race day, May 29. He is nine months older than Mario An­dretti, who is conducting his retirement tour this season. 
But Unser, hoping to qualify for his 28th Indy start when time trials begin Saturday, says retirement is something he doesn't dwell upon. 
"All of us know sometime or another, you have to back down," said Unser, who won at Indy in 1970, 1971, 1978 and 1987. ''I'm not ready yet. 
"Mario and I were the same when we were younger. We'd look at the guys up ahead of us with the age and laugh at them and say, 'What are those guys doing up here? They're too old to run.' And all of a sudden, here we are. I never did think that I would be this far along in age.... Somebody once (said to) me, 'If you didn't know age, how old would you be?' It still doesn't bother me. 
"I still feel that I have the de­sire, and I have the wanting to do it. The day that I finally wake up and say it's not fun anymore, or I'm not competi­tive, then you step down." 
Unser, who has not had a full­time ride since 1985 and ran only one race last year -fin­ishing 12th at Indy -added, "It has to happen pretty soon. You take 30 years ago if you had asked me if I'd last this long I'd have laughed at you. I still enjoy it, so here I am." 
Big Al, whose brother Bobby won Indy three times and whose son Al Jr. won it in 1992, has seen enormous changes since he first arrived at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway in 1965. 
"When I first came here, I qualified at 154," he said. "Now, at 154 they don't even list you on the board." 
Unser, who is driving a 1993 Lola-Ford Cosworth, is far off the pace so far this month with a fast lap of 215.652 mph on Thursday, his quickest since practice began on Sunday. That speed would have been 2 mph short of making the 33-car field at Indy last year, and it is well under the top speeds posted this week. 
Emerson Fittipaldi, the de­fending Indy 500 champion, turned the fastest lap of the week at 230.438 late in Thurs­day's practice session, topping the 230.403 that Brazilian countryman Raul Boesel turned on Tuesday. 
Paul Tracy was next quickest among the 44 drivers who got onto the 2 1/2-mile oval Thurs­day, hitting 228.444, followed by Michael Andretti at 227.698, Unser Jr. 227.457 and Boesel 227.175. 
Fittipaldi, Tracy and the younger Unser all drive for Team Penske. 
Thursday was another day without a crash and it remains one of the safest opening weeks in recent Indy history, with the only incident a crash on Mon­day by Mike Groff, who escaped with a bruised leg. 
The elder Unser is among the 20 or so drivers still working hard to find enough speed to make the lineup. 
"We're still searching and try­ing to find the happiness between me and the car," Unser said. "We kind of think we know which way we want to go now. It's just going to take a few more laps. 
"Once you find which direc­tion to go, then it comes in big stages, usually, unless you go the wrong way. We're gaining. We just need some more time." 
If he can get qualified some­time during the four days of time trials -Saturday and Sunday this weekend and next -then Unser will be right in his element. 
"Ifyou seek for a moment, gaze around. " 
(Inscription in St. Paul's Cathedral, London) 
The Department of Public Relations and Infonnation congratulates our graduating volunteer tour guides, who looked around a little bit while they were here: Richard Castellini Anne Pierson Jennifer Guerin Greg Ripple Matt Markee Kristie Shafer Catherine McGinley Jeannie Shin Greg Millar Jenny Tate Bong Miquiabis Heidi Toboni Sally Oeschger 

You may even get paid for f e a dillg it.After all, this book from MasterCard~ offers lots of useful tips on finding a real job, and it's written for students by students. To order your copy for $9.95, call 1-800-JOB-8894. MasterCard. It's more than a credit card. It's smart money: Cl 199-1 MasterCard lmnnatio"al huorporattd  

---~----~--~---~-~ 
Friday, May 13, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
Bryce Drew says no to Dome, yes to Dad 
Associated Press 
VALPARAISO, Ind. Home was where Bryce Drew's heart was. 
Indiana's Mr. Basketball made his long-awaited college choice Thursday, announcing he will attend Valparaiso University ­the hometown school where his father is head coach -instead of nearby Notre Dame. 
"It was tough to say no to 
Notre Dame," Drew said during a news conference at Val .. paraiso High School. "I really felt comfortable at Notre Dame." 
But the 6-foot-3 guard felt even more comfortable in Val­paraiso, where he has lived since his father, Homer, took the coaching job six years ago. Ironically, the Drews moved from the South Bend area, where Homer Drew coached for 
we could hardly have done it without vou: 
Leslie. Zeke. 
Vicki. Erin. and Maggie l4!1 
Thanks and farewell! 
The Snite Museum ofArt 
11 seasons at Bethel College. 
South Bend is about 60 miles northwest of Valparaiso. 
"The community here has been very good to him and sup­ported him and helped him a great deal," the father said. 
Drew, who had three opera­tions last summer to correct a heart condition, averaged 24.7 points as the Vikings finished 29-1 last season. Their only loss was a 93-88 overtime decision to South Bend Clay in the state finals. 
He set a Final Four record with 13 assists against Ben Davis in the semifinals, and won the Trester Award for sportsmanship in the tourney. 
Homer Drew, the Mid-Conti­nent Conference coach of the year last season, said his ~on seemed to be leaning toward Notre Dame on Friday. By Sunday he appeared to have changed his mind. 
The younger Drew took three days to consider his decision, and telephoned Notre Dame coach John MacLeod late Wednesday. There now will be three Drews in the Valparaiso basketball program: eldest son Scott is an assistant coach. 
"As a father, I'm very ex­cited," Homer Drew said. ''But we wanted him to make the de­cision not just because dad and brother are here, but because he wanted to come." 
Although the Drews are a close family, Drew said the chance to play for his father was only one factor that swayed him toward the lesser-known program. 
He is the fifth recruit the Cru­saders have attracted, including power forward Anthony Alison, a first-team junior college All­American last season. Val­paraiso, coming off its first 20­win season since moving to Di­vision I-A 18 years ago, also at­tracted 6-foot-6 twins Bill and Bob Jenkins from Milwaukee, and 6-8 Greg Grimwood from Wooster, Ohio. 
"My dad wasn't the only rea­son," Drew said. "I got to meet some of the incoming freshmen, and I think they're going to be pretty good." 
Valparaiso's first game next season is Nov. 27 at Notre Dame. 
Drew would have joined a crowded backcourt rotation with the Fighting Irish. 
Point guards Lamarr Justice and Admore White and shoot­ing guards Ryan Hoover and Keith Kurowski all played ma­jor roles for the Fighting Irish last season and will return. 
Both father and son joked that Janet Drew-wife and mother -will have the hardest part during the coach-player rela­tionship. 

The College of Business Administration offers heartfelt congratulations and 

.. 
--~..----...---------~----------~--------------------------------------------------------~----------------------­
page 26 
The Observer Sports Staff congratulates its graduates 
Main & Jefferson 
Hours 

Not a Franchise! Mon-Sat 11:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m. A Family Owned Business Sun 4:00-9:00 p.m. 



257-1100 
"This is How Pizza is Supposed to Tatste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery 
Call 273-2EAT 
$2 off large pizza with Student ID 
Friday, May 13, 1994
The Observer • SPORTS 

It's Deja UVA for Irish lacrosse 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

For the second consecutive year, the Notre Dame lacrosse team will travel to Charlottesville, Virginia, to face the Cavaliers of Virginia in the opening round of the NCAA tournament, and the Irish are certainly hoping not to suffer from a case of deja vu. 
In last season's tourney, the Irish bowed out early after a 19-9 thrashing at the hands of the Cavaliers. 
This year, however, the Irish will enter the match-up with a much greater sense of confi­dence and more post-season experience· under their belts. 
"We're excited to be included in the tournament field," says Irish coach Kevin Corrigan. 
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE 1994 GRADUATES 
From the College of Science Faculty and Staff 
-~-----­
I• 
"We really didn't have any favorites, we were just anxious to know who to prepare for." 
The squad concluded its regu­lar season with a 10-1 overall record and a 14th-place nation­al ranking. The only other teams with one loss are the top three seeds in the tournament­Syracuse, Princeton, and Loyola. 
Since losing to then-13th­ranked Georgetown in early March, the Irish have won eight straight games. 
The 12th-seeded Notre Dame team will face off with fifth­seed Virginia tomorrow after­noon. The Cavaliers hold a 10­3 overall record and a 2-1 record in the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
"We went to Virginia last year and we didn't play well," said Corrigan. "If we play the way we are capable of playing, we'll see what happens." 
This is the third straight ap­pearance in the tournament for the Irish, and the fourth in the past five years. The squad improved on the 16th-place national ranking it held after last season concluded. 
Corrigan, who has led the Irish to a 54-29 record in his six years as head coach, gradu­ated from Virginia in 1982 and served as an assistant coach for the Cavaliers for two years before making the move to Notre Dame. 
The victor of Saturday's con­test will travel to face fourth­seeded North Carolina in the quarterfinals. 


MANDARIN, CANTONESE & AMERICAN FOOD DINE-IN OR CARRY OUT 
Opens at 11am Lunch Specials Mon -Sat 11-3 
-1257-01551 C!C 
Luke C. Lamprey 

l 
Friday, May 13, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 27 
I 
l 
l
Irish individuals will shine at Illini Invite 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Individuals will be in the spot­light this weekend as both the men's and women's track teams will travel to the University of Illinois Saturday to participate in the Illini Invite. 
For some, this meet will be a last chance to qualify for the IC4A's, which will be held May 21-22. For those who have al­ready achieved qualifying times, this meet will serve as a final tune-up before they corn­pete against nationally renowned competition. 
"The IC4A's is the type of meet where the strength of the field pushes the athletes to their top performances of the season," said coach Joe Piane. 
One runner who has made excellent performances all sea­son long is Erica Peterson. At the Drake Relays two weeks ago, the sophomore captured first in the 400-rneter low hur­dles with a time of 59.18, beat­ing Stephanie Love of Iowa State by 1.63 seconds. 
"Erica has already qualified for the NCAA's and we think she'll improve on her qualifying time in the 400-rneter hurdles," Piane continued. 
Other standouts on the worn­en's side include junior Lisa Junek, who took first in the 100-rneter hurdles with a time of 14.60 in a tri-rneet with Eastern Illinois and Hillsdale three weeks ago. Junek's clos­est competition was teammate Monica Cox, who took second in the event with a time of 15.00. 
In the same meet, Alison Howard edged out Peterson in the 400 meters, winning with a time of 56.24. Howard, a fresh­man, has been a standout for the Irish in the sprinting events so far this season. 
"Lisa Junek, Monica Cox, and Alison Howard have all been running extremely well and hopefully one or more of them will qualify for the NCAA Championships," Piane said. 
Despite the women's success in the sprints, their strength lies in the distance events, as the team will look for good per" forrnances from freshman Carolyn Long, sophomore Amy Siegel, and junior Emily Husted. 
"The women's team has been doing very well as evidenced by our performance against Eastern Illinois and Hillsdale," Piane continued. 
The men will enter tomor­row's meet with a chance to qualify athletes in several dif­ferent events for next week's IC4A's. The team's strength comes in its great balance, as Irish athletes consistently place high in each event. 
The Irish are corning off a second place finish at the Central Collegiate Conference Outdoor Championships, held 
Congratulates the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
.aas.s of. 1994 
And a special congratulations to: 
Autry Jasper, SMC '94! 
last week in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Strong performances were turned in by junior Lamarr Justice, who won the triple jump, Jim Trautmann, who placed first in the 5000 meters, and Stuart Tyner, who took first place in the discus. 
Notre Dame's best showing carne in the 10,000 meter run, where the first four places were swept by John Coyle, Joe Dunlop, J.R. Meloro, and Mike McWilliams. Coyle defeated Dunlop by only .03 seconds. 
"Several of our distance run­ners have just been outstand­ing, John Coyle, Joe Dunlop, and Jeff Hojnacki to name a few," Piane said. "Things are going well for the men's team." 
Hojnacki, a sophomore, took 
eighth place in the 1500-rneter 
run last week after winning the 
event in the tri-rneet with 
Eastern Illinois and Hillsdale. 
Though he did not win the 
100 meters last week, senior 
Dean Lytle has consistently 
been in the top three finishers 
all season, and will look to do 
so again in order to solidify his 
NCAA qualifying credentials. 
Other hopefuls include senior 
Chris Lilly in the 110-rneter 
high hurdles, and Randy Kinder 
in the 200 meters. 
"We'll probably have 20 guys 
qualify for the IC4A's, and 
hopefully a couple will qualify 
for the NCAA Championships," 
Piane said. 
You've just graduated! 
What are you going to do next? 
Will it be Phoenix, Chicago, 
Honolulu, Minneapolis, 
Sheboygan, or Disney World? 
We wish you the best, 
Mom, Dad, Brian, Paul, Raquel 
CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 
Learning Japanese is FON! 
Summer courses on Japanese Language and Culture. 
COAJ 200 Intensive Japanese (10 credits) June 21-Aug 3 
Upon completion of this introductory course, you will be able to make yourself understood in Japanese. You will also learn the Japanese writing systems along with 150 kanji-Chinese characters. 
COAJ 340 Contemporary Japanese Culture (3 credits) July 4-Aug 3 
This course will introduce the major elements of Japanese culture. Introduction will be in English. Those who are interested, please contact: 
Dept. of Classical and Oriental Languages and Literatures 631-7195 
To our graduating Student Assistants: 
Congratulations and Best Wishes 
from the University Libraries 
May 1994 
~-~­
page 28 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, May 13, 1994 
Kobata is perfect as Irish claim MCC crown 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Assistant Spans Editor 
Since preseason training, Notre Dame head softball coach Liz Miller has had one thing on her mind: getting to the NCAA tournament. 
"Our objective this year is to be in the NCAA tournament, and to be playing our best at the end of the year," stated Miller. "In the past, the MCC tournament was played only for the championship, but it has taken on a whole new signifi­delivered the knockout blow with a two-run double. 
"DePaul might be the best team in the region," added Miller. "Our key was keeping them off the bases and getting hits with runners· on base." 
DePaul rallied to win game two of the doubleheader 2-1, as a four-hitter by freshman pitch­er Joy Battersby was squan­dered as the Irish bats were held in check. 
The Irish were also strong in sweeping their final two regular runners, as she ended the sea­son throwing out eight of the 12 runners who attempted to steal on her. 
Hayes was joined on the of­fensive leaderboard by fresh­men Meghan Murray (.357) and Elizabeth Perkins (.353). As a team, Notre Dame ranked first in batting with a combined .289 average. 
The Irish also boast the best ERA of 2.18 among conference foes, and Kobata's 10.7 strike­outs per game place her second on the national scene. 


40 STATION DRIVING RANGE WITH TARGET GREENS,SAND TRAPS, BALL DISPENSING MACHINE & CLUB CLEANERS. 
7 A.B.C. BATTING CAGES 
MINIATURE GOLF WITH....WATER FALLS, 
STREAMS & ISLAND GREEN. HANDICAP ACCESSABLE 
season double headers, beating LaSalle 5-0 and 7-2 and edging Temple 5-0. 3-1. 
Notre Dame finished the reg­ular season with a 9-1 confer­ence mark, as numerous play­ers finished in the top ten of MCC statistical categories. 
All-America candidate Sara Hayes ranked in almost every offensive category, posting a .376 batting average with 10 home runs and 43 RBis. The junior catcher was also a de­fensive menace to opposing 

STUDENTS! 
Shopping for a new car for after graduation? Then look at this! 
• 
Rates as low as 6.25% APR for a new car and 7.25% APR for a used car. 

• 
Up to 5 years to repay and deferred payments until September, 1994. 

• 
$100 CASH BONUS when your loan is disbursed. 


Students with good credit or no credit qualify, no co-signer needed. Bring your letter of employment. 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Independent of the University of Notre Dame 
ARCADE BUILDING PRO SHOP SNACK BAR 
q 
==-•w-•~·~~~--~---------------~--------~------------~~~ 


Congratu{ations to 
rrlie C[ass of1994 
for your commitment to service ana justice ant! peace :May it continue to enricli your fives am£ tfirougfi you, your community 
Witfi appreciation, 'IIie Staff of'IIie Center for Socia{ Concerns 
Tennis 
continued from page 36 
ed team in the region, Minnesota. Notre Dame is ranked higher nationally than the Gophers, but Minnesota went undefeated in the region and served the Irish with a 5:2 loss in April, so the Gophers earned the top seed. 
Despite their underdog status and Notre Dame's reputation as the top team in the Midwest, Minnesota presents a formida­ble threat to the Irish's grip on the midwest's NCAA bid. 
"They have really held up bet­ter than I or their coaches thought," noted Bayliss. "They have a lot of new players and young guys who have really played well. They're for real." 
Minnesota head coach David Geatz says that it really does not matter that the Gophers are seeded higher than the Irish. 
"How the seeding worked out is not what really matters," 
page 29 

said Geatz. "We have not been to the NCAA's in four years and we have been trying to beat Notre Dame for a long time so it should be interesting." 
A regional championship and a trip into the 16-team NCAA Championship would be a fit­ting end to a unique year for the Irish. Notre Dame tragically lost team leader Andy Zurcher for all of last season with a wrist injury. Fortunately, last year's tragedy has become a blessing in disguise for this year's Notre Dame team. 
Zurcher has not only provided leadership for a young squad, but he has posted a 29-17 over­all record this year, including a 17-11 mark in dual match play. The fifth-year senior and team captain has also beaten two top 10 opponents in No. 6 Chris Pressley of Duke and No. 7 Chad Clark of Texas. 
The Irish have also received a big boost from freshman Ryan Simme, who is the highest­ranked freshman from the United States at No. 52. 
Congrats! 

Jane, SMC '94 Joe, ND '94 
Another special date to come: 
6/18/94 
Love, 
Mom&Dad 

, 
I 
1
, 
l l l 
I 
l l I 
... 

,.. 
~. 
~-­
,-­
, 
l.(J(l r f ., •. 
' page 30 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, May 13, 1994 r 
' I I Future is fuzzy for Irish baseball seniors 
r 
I 
' 
I By JENNY MARTEN coach. "Not being able to play Haas' bat has been as effective lievable. He's pitched 105 in­every day with the guys." Senior Sports Writer because of my back was tough, as his glove. nings and given up three As the seniors head down the ' but I wanted to stick with the Utility player Birk is pleased walks," said Murphy. final stretch of the season, they
I 
I Although many seniors are program. I wasn't really sure with his senior season because Notre Dame baseball will cer­are eager to prolong the season , headed into graduation not what I wanted to do and this he thinks he has proven that he tainly miss these players, but as much as possible. The rest of ,' knowing where they are going year helped me to decide." can play at the collegiate level. they'll miss each other more. the season is a little bittersweet I to be next year or what they'll As they move beyond Notre He has filled in anywhere he "We've grown up together for for the seniors. 
be doing, the future is even Dame, the seniors leave some was needed and has main­four years. We've made great "You always take it for grant­I' fuzzier for student athletes. big holes to be filled. tained a .338 batting average. friendships. We're around each ed when you're younger. You r For the senior members of "Every time you have seniors "Birk has proven that hard other so much that we've got don't really think about it," said 
! the Irish baseball team, the fu­leave your program especially work pays off," said Murphy. our own little fraternity here," Haas. "Now, you start thinking ture is a long way off with when it's a program like ours, I "He's gotten himself in the line­explained Price. that in a week I've played my seven regular season games, think you're going to miss every up and helped us immensely Birk echoed Price's senti­last game here and then the the Midwestern Collegiate one of them. They're great peo­this year. He's played second, ments, "I'll miss my teammates last game in South Bend and
,I ' 
I 
Conference tournament and ple," said Murphy. short, third, first, left, right and without question. This is the sooner or later your last game
I
, hopefully NCAA tournament Layson, who has played in all center. He's done it all for us. greatest group of guys I've been at Notre Dame." games left to play. 44 games, is hitting .305 and Those are team players, the around. It's fun to be here
I 
The seniors, Greg Layson, has 26 stolen bases. guys you're going to miss." 
I 
I Matt Haas, Tom Price, Robbie Murphy respects Layson's Price, a lefthanded starter 
Birk, Marty DeGraff, Rick dedication. and ace of the Irish staff, will 
,I 
Lozano and volunteer coach "He comes to the ballpark ev­be missed immensely. Currently Hap Durkin, are headed into ery day ready to play. He's he is 11-3 with a 2.31 earned' I the fmal stretch. given 100 percent to Notre run average, but his control is I "It's an exciting time," ex­Dame baseball every single his best asset. 
plained Irish second baseman time he's played." "This kid's proven that this is Layson. "When you're younger, Third baseman Haas has something special. I'd be hard you go through the year and been another major contributor pressed to ever see anyone were looking to go home, but to Notre Dame's success this have 14 starts like this kid's 
now, I've got no where to go. I season. With a .352 average, had 14 starts. He's just unbe­want to go as far as we can." 
After the season ends, most are hoping to get picked in the draft or sign a contract as a free agent, but all have their options. Irish head coach Pat 

CONGRATULATIONS
Murphy thinks Price, Haas and Layson will be drafted and Birk and DeGraff have the potential to be drafted. All would like 
JR RJE JEN~ JPHXJLJLX JPS 
baseball to be in their future. 
"Hopefully, baseball will let me be a kid for a couple more years," said DeGraff. "If base­
SENIORS! 
ball doesn't work out, I'll get in­volved with kids and baseball." Durkin, who handled admin­
BEST OF LUCK,
istrative duties, recruiting and scouting this year, is interested 
JUDY 
in pursuing coaching. "I've learned a lot," said Durkin of his experience as a 
"On The Concourse" JACC 
.., 
Commencement Weekend Hours: friday 11:30-5:30 8aturday 10:00-4:00 Closed &unday Monday 9:00-5:30 


---------~--------~ ­
Friday, May 13, 1994 
The Observer • SPORTS page 31 
1 , 
I
Baseball begins quest· for third straight NCAA bid l 1 1 
Sometimes it's the teams that The next day the MCC tour­
play together and play hard at nament starts at the Cove, but The Irish are hoping every­
WORKS-IN-PROGRESS 
John Wicoff 

the right time. We've got noth­Murphy is confident. thing falls into place this year
B.A. in English and Theology, Valparaiso University M.Div. Lutheran School of Theology At Chicago 
ing to be ashamed of. "We're the best team in the and they can take the next step "If we aren't one of the 48 MCC hands down. There's no to Omaha. 
THEOLOGY STUDENTS .JUSTIN ARCANGEL SCOTT CURTIS KOINE. LXX AND HEBREW TEXT 

COREY BABINGTON ..J. R. DUFF INSERTIONS 
.JACK BABKA .JOHN EPPERS
AVAILABLE AT NO EXTRA CHARGE 

CHRIS BROWNING REGGIE FLEURIMA 
MIKE CAIN ADAIM GONZALEZ INSERTED TOO 
OT & NT MAPS 

RICK CARTER DAVE GROVER 
.JOSE CONTRERAS .JOHN HINDING 
DAVE CORKEN TODD KLEM 
,,rin ~nUtgr JnwnM~ 'aJntts 
FOR PAPERS DUE IN ALL DISCIPLINES 
'lJ~t ~1ass nf1§94
TEXT FORMATTING PER YOUR REQUIREMENTS: 
THE MODERN LANGUAGE ASSDCIA TION STYLE MANUAL 
NATHAN KNUTH

KATE L. TURABIAN'S A MANUAL FOR WRITERS OF TERM PAPERS, THESES, AND 
EDWIN PALMER .JIM SULLIVAN 
DISSERTATIONS 
.JOE KUEHNE TIM PEROZEK 

Roe SWAIN TUAN LE 
CHRIS POWERS 

ToM TOOLE ..JAIMES LAFATA 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS STYLEBOOK AND LISLE MANUAL 
CHRISTIAN RANKIN 

DAVE WALTERS FREE PICKUP AND DELIVERY 
..JONATHAN LIENHARD 
DOUG RICE 

STEVE WATZKE CAlol 277-2683 TO GIVE DIRECTIONS OR ASK QUESTIONS 
ALLAN LOPEZ DAVE RONDEAU 

GREG WOZNIAK GREG MACCHIA 
CHRIS SCHULZ 

ANDY YANG MIKE MCMAHON 
.JIM SHELHIMER DAVE ZIDAR 

"PERSONAL CARE AND ATTENTION TO DETAIL OUR HALLMARKS" 



The Best in Collegiate Tennis is at Notre Dame this Weekend. 
The University of Notre Dame is proud to host the Region IV Championships this weekend. The winner will secure a berth in the NCAA Championships on May 21-29­also hosted by the University of Notre Dame. 
All matches played at the Courtney Tennis Center (Rain Site -Eck Pavilion) 
Friday-May 13 
10:00 am 
Ball State vs. Minnesota 
Saturday -May 14 194 
1:00pm
NCAA® TENNIS 
DIVISION I MEN'S CHAMPIONSHIPS 

Championship Match 
2:00pm #15 Notre Dame vs. Michigan 
**FREE Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream Bars 
to the first 400 fans to Notre Dame's match ** 
Courtesy ofthe Notre Dame Alumni Association 
ByJENNY MARTEN
Upcoming Games 
Senior Sports Writer 
May 
13 14 16  Detroit(2) Detroit(2) Chicago State  5p.m. 1 p.m. ?p.m.  Now, it's all baseball. With finals finished, the Irish baseball team has only playing baseball to worry about, but it's  
17  Eastern Illinois  3p.m.  crunch time.  

After winning 27 of its last 29 games, Notre Dame (35-9) heads into the final stretch of 
May 18-22 
MCC ~ 
the season which includes three 
Tournament 
![ 

doubleheaders and a single game before the Midwestern 
. ­
WORD PROCESSING/LASER PRINTING 
Collegiate Conference tourna­ment starts May 18 at Coveleski Stadium. 
If the Irish win the MCC title, they will return to the NCAA tournament for the third time in three years. Although this is a much different team from last year, head coach Pat Murphy knows his team belongs in the NCAA tournament field. 
"We're not as experienced. We're not as confident. That's what we're searching for," ex­plained Murphy. "Sometimes the more talented teams aren't the ones that get there. 
best teams in the country some­thing's wrong. Maybe we're not one of the best 10 right now, but one of the best 48 there's no question," said Murphy. 
There are a few things the Irish have to take care of before they can book their flight to Omaha. 
This weekend, MCC rival Detroit Mercy comes to Eck Stadium for a pair of double­headers today and Saturday be­fore Chicago State visits for an­other doubleheader on Monday and Eastern Illinois visits on Tuesday. 
question. It's a shame that it comes down to a tournament. We'll just play game by game and not worry about it," said 
jMurphy. "All the teams in the MCC are better this year. Everybody has a pitcher that can beat you on any given day, but we're in the position we want to be in." 
If the Irish win the conference bid to the NCAA regionals, they would be back in a familiar position. For the last two years, Notre Dame has gone to the regional championship and been a game away from the College World Series. 

For more information on the regionals or the championships, call 631-9430 or call 631-7356 for ticket information. 
_..... 
" 

page 32 The Observer • FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW Friday, May 13, 1994 
The Top Ten Sports Stories 1990-1994 
The Showdown 
Billed as the "Game of the Century," the late­season showdown between No. 1 Florida State and No. 2 Notre Dame will go down as one of the great moments in Irish football history. The Seminoles, considered by many to be unbeatable, didn't live up to their press clippings in a 31-24 loss. 
The Irish defense swarmed elusive quarterback Charlie Ward, while the offense opened a big lead. But Ward led Florida State back in the final minutes, and on the last breath-taking play the Seminoles were just 14 yards from a touchdown that could have changed the outcome of the game. Notre Dame's Shawn Wooden (left) swat­ted the pass away and one of the biggest victories in Notre Dame football history was secured. 
' November 15, 1993 
' 
I 
Shawn Wooden's last-second deflection sealed Notre Dame's improbable 31-24 win over Florida State. 
I 't 
t 
r 
t 
' 
I 
~ 
I 
,' 
,r 
I 
! r 
~ 
I 
I 
I Digger Resigns Wrestling Axed MacLeod Hired 


Rocket Clipped 
Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal John MacLeod accepted the head 
Rocket Ismail's dramatic last second Phelps resigned, ending months of 
announced that the wrestling pro­coaching position vacated by Phelps 
punt return was called back because speculation after a lackluster season, 
gram would be eliminated amid after it was turned down by current 
of a clipping penalty, ending Notre where he felt the pressure of the 
rumors of NCAA violations and a per­Providence coach Pete Gillen and 
Dame's hopes of a second straight administration and alumni. 
sonal conflict between Rosenthal and Georgia Tech coach Bobby Cremins. 
Orange Bowl victory over top-ranked · head coach Fran McCann. 
Colorado. 
April 16, 1991 

May 3, 1991 
April 13, 1992 January 16, 1991 
No. 6-Last-Minute Heroics, November 16, 1992 Reggie Brooks' last minute two-point conversion catch lifted Notre ...-» Dame over Penn State, 17-16. It marked the final game of the series because of Penn State's decision to join the Big Ten. 
No. 7-Dreams Dashed, November 22, 1993 
Notre Dame's hopes of a national championship ended when 
David Gordon kicked the longest field goal of his career (41 yards) 
to erase a thrilling Irish comeback and give Boston College a 41­
39 victory in the final game of the 1993 season. 
No. 8-0pening Day at Eck, April I, 1994 The baseball team inaugurated its new home with a victory over Indiana. Made possible by a donation from alumnus Frank Eck, it is considered one of the finest on-campus baseball facilities in the nation. 
-J 
No. 9-National Champions, March 23, 1994 The Notre Dame fencing team came from behind on the final day of competition to defeat Penn State and secure the first Notre Dame national championship in any sport since 1988. 
No. 10-Gerber Goes The Distance, Feb. 28, 1994 
Jeff Gerber became only the seventh boxer in Bengal Bouts history 
to win four straight titles with a unanimous decision over John 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling 

Bradshaw in the finals. 
Notre Dame's new baseball home, Frank Eck Stadium, opened March 31. It is considered one of the best on-campus facilities in the nation. 





page 33 The Observer • YEAR IN REVIEW 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek Epeeist Grzegorz Wozniak led the Irish fencing team to the national title. 



Swimmer Haley Scott completes her improbable comeback in October, swimming competitively for the first time since suffering a near-paralyzing injury during a January 1992 bus crash that took the lives of two of her teammates. 
Burris 
continued from page 36 
probably hold for that," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. 
Burris finished his career with 10 touchdowns, 10 inter­ceptions, more than 100 tackles and a 60-yard punt return for a touchdown. 
His greatest contribution may have been an intangible one. As a tri-captain, he was among the leaders of a senior class that could go down in history as one of Notre Dame's best. 
"We have a great senior class and when people had some­thing to say, they said it," Burris explained. "The burden of leading never fell on one per­son." 
But Burris was clearly among 
the team's most respected lead­ers. On and off the field. No. 2-Monty Williams, Basketball 
With the weight of an entire team on his shoulders, Williams proved to be capable of carry­ing the load, leading the Irish to upsets of UCLA, Missouri and Marquette. Imagine what it would have been like without him. 
No. 3-Kevin McDougal, Football 
Maybe it was the Michigan game, or maybe it was Florida State. Maybe it wasn't even until a dramatic last minute comeback against Boston College, but somewhere along the line the Doubted Quarterback won the respect and admiration of Notre Dame fans everywhere. 
No. 4-Mike McWilliams, 
Friday, May 13, 1994 

Surprise or ­
continued from page 36 
even if we had lost," Irish offensive lineman Mark Zataveski said. "There are probably pro players who would've given up their pro careers to play in this game." 
Florida State helped fan the already flaming hype when they mocked Notre Dame's mystique, wearing green hats with FSU written on the front and a shamrock on the side. 
"I saw what they were doing and I got a little ticked off," · said Irish safety John Covington. "They came in here to our stadium shooting their mouths off. They shouldn't do \ that." 
Florida State proved they could talk the talk. But they nearly proved that they could also walk the walk. 
Notre Dame took control of the game in the second quar­ter, after falling behind on the Seminoles' first drive. 
The Irish lead was as much as 14 points in the first half and it looked like the Game of the Century might not even be the Game of the Week. 
But Florida State wouldn't 
die. 
With a couple of breaks and some broken tackles by elusive quarterback Charlie Ward, the Seminoles creeped back into the game. 
When Kez McCorvey caught a tipped pass in the endzone the lead was seven and Notre Dame's offense stalled on its next drive. 
That gave the Seminoles :51 
to make Notre Dame's dreams 
die. 
Ward directed them to the 
14-yard line for the game's 
fmal play. He rolled out of the 
pocket and looked for a receiv­
er in the endzone. 
His pass looked to be on tar­
get, but Warrick Dunn was sur­
rounded by Irish defenders and 
cornerback Shawn Wooden 
knocked the pass away as time 
expired. 
It was chaos as the field filled 
with revelers within seconds. 
The scene got so out of control 
that Wooden, the hero of the fi­
nal play, was injured in the cel­
ebration. 
Florida State liked the event 
so much that they immediately 
expressed their desire to do it 
again soon. 
"I think the public wants to 
see a rematch," said Seminole 
linebacker Derrick Brooks. 
"They want to see a game like 
this at a neutral site to see who 
really is the best team." 
Circumstances made a re­
match moot. But there was no 
question which team was the 
best that day. 
No. 2-Jahnell Karlan, 
Volleyball 
Finished her career as Notre 
Dame's all-time assist leader 
with more than 4,000 to help 
the Irish reach the Elite Eight 
of the NCAA Tournament . 
No. 3-Alison Lester, Soccer 
Lester led the best women's 
soccer team in school history to 
the No. 3 ranking and its first 
NCAA Tournament berth. She 
finished her career second in 
goals and points. 
No. 4-Molly Stark, Volleyball 
The emotional leader of the 
team, Stark led in blocks and 
was second in kills. 
No. 5-Andrea Kurek, Soccer 
She didn't play the glamorous 
position, but Kurek proved to 
be a nagging defender. A tri­
captain as a senior, she was al­
ways assigned to mark the op­
position's best offensive player. 

Leary 
continued from page 36 
the right track toward where we want to be," she said, trying to put that sad March night into perspective. ''I'm just glad I could be a part of it." 
The walk-on from Nashua, New Hampshire earned the starting point guard position as a sophomore and wouldn't give it up, mostly because she wouldn't give up the basketball. 
Her sticky hands played a big part in Notre Dame's two NCAA Tournament appearances in her three years as a starter. 
She also symbolized the determination of a group that learned, from Leary's lead, how to overcome its obstacles. 
Cross Country 
The only Irish runner in his­tory to earn All-America honors in four seasons, McWilliams fin­ished 18th at the NCAA Championships with a time of 
30:12.8 in the 10,000 meters. No. 5-Grzegorz Wozniak, Fencing 
The best epeeist on Notre Dame's national championship fencing team, Wozniak added to his already impressive career that included a 13th place performance at the 1991 NCAA Championships. 
Honorable Mention-Jeff Gerber, Bengal Bouts 
The seventh four-time cham­pion in the 64 year history of the Bouts, Gerber etched his name in the record books with a unanimous decision over John Bradshaw in this year's finals. 

-----~--~~ 
page 34 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, May 13, 1994 
Women's tennis returns to NCAAs 
Congratulations to the Graduates of Morrissey Manor 1994 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish are at it again. 
After becoming the first women's tennis team to repre­sent Notre Dame at the NCAA Championships a year ago, the Irish have again been invited to the 20-team tournament. 
This morning at 9 a.m. the 15th-seeded Irish went after their second-consecutive first-. round win at the NCAA's, facing No. 18 Cal-Santa Barbara at the Univeristy of Georgia campus in Athens, Ga. Last season the Irish shutout No. 19 Alabama before falling to No. 2 Stanford in the second round. 
"Hopefully, we'll get a chance to go farther than we did last year," noted Irish head coach Jay Louderback, who has led the Irish to a 78-42 record in his six years at the helm. 
This time around the Irish are more experienced and poised, but the Irish will once again have to get past No. 3 seed Stanford if they hope to realize their goal of advancing past the second round. 
But the Notre Dame women are not strangers to challenges. 
Just five years ago the Irish sent their first player to the in­dividual NCAA Division I Championship, and since then the Irish have fought to prove they belong amongst the elite women's tennis programs. 
"We are a higher seed this year and that shows that our program is on the rise nation­ally," said Louderback. 
This season could serve as a 
~~oo~m 
Joseph Claussen Kevin McDougal Paul Merlitti Robert Sayles Jack Elliot Larry Palmer Richard Kim Mike McWilliams Sean Carroll Scott Taylor John Schadl Tim Cooper John Sonnick Chris Maier Steve Clar Kevin Sullivan Michael Sullivan Miguel Salazar 
model for the Irish's ascen­dance into the national elite, as the Irish faced no less than 13 teams ranked among the top 30 in the country. The 16-8 season has been highlighted by seven wins over such teams, including a 5-2 upset of No. 10 Arizona. 
Though senior captains Christy Faustmann, Lisa Tholen and Terri Vitale form the back­bone of this year's team, this season has belonged to the sophomores. Wendy Crabtree and Holyn Lord have been leading the Irish at No. 1 and No. 2 singles. 
Crabtree has blossomed into the 18th-ranked player in the country, posting an overall sin­gles record of 27-13, including a 13-9 mark in dual match play against some of the country's top players. Meanwhile, Lord has garnered a No. 53 ranking by posting a 28-8 overall record, 17-6 in dual matches. 
Congratulations 
Katie 0. 
You survived Catholic School! 
Love you! 
Mom, Dad, Tim, Ann, Mike, Tracie, Rob, Courtney, &Sean 

Crabtree has also teamed with Tholen to form one of the nation's premier doubles teams. Crabtree and Tholen have been near-perfect at No. 1 doubles in dual match play, earning a 14-1 record. 
Freshman Erin Gowen has also been a surprise, stepping in for the Irish at No. 6 singles with an 8-4 mark and teaming with Faustmahn for a 14-9 overall record at No. 2 doubles. Junior Laura Schwab has also gone 6-3 at No. 3 singles, while Faustmann was 9-3 at No. 5. 
The Irish will need produc­tion from nearly every player to advance far this year, as the same Stanford team that ended the Irish's season last year with a 5-0 shutout trounced Notre Dame 6-0 in March. 
However, despite the odds against them, this team has been known to rise to a chal­lenge. 



Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

Holyn Lord and the Irish women begin NCAA play today. 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
Notre Dame Baseball 
In their final home stand 
FREE ADMISSION WITH STUDENT I.D. 

Friday -_5:00pm (2) Notre Dame vs. Detroit Contests -Prizes -and lots of Fun! 
Saturday -1:00pm (2) 
Notre Dame vs. Detroit 
* 1/2 price coupons at area Subway Restaurants* 
Monday -5:00 pm (2) Notre Dame vs. Chicago State 
Tuesday -3:00 pm Notre Dame vs. Eastern Illinois 


~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 35

The Observer • TODAY
Friday, May 13, 1994 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

SPELUNKER 

Editor's note: This is Jay Hosler's last strip. The Observer wishes Jay best ofluck in all his future endeavors. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Major affiliation 61 Sound 37 Practical joker's 62 Kaput
1 Shakes up buy 63 Similar 5 Moonshine-to­41 Centers of 64 Smile upon be activity 65 Cleaning9 Architectural 42 Bucks solutionsafterthought 43lmpress 66 Work at a bar 14 Like crazy mightily15 Until 44 Once around 
16 Hang (over) DOWN
the sun 17 Patrick's 
45 Will-o'-the-wisp 1 Figurine"Ghost" co-star site material18 Knock out 46 Special interest 
2 --Raymond,
19 Like interstates grps. originator of 20 Practical joker's 48 Pithecologist's "Flash Gordon" buy study 3 Easy victory 23 Kind of fin 
50Lhasa-­

24 Sapporo sash (terrier type) 4 Clown's props 5 Least lucid 
25 Fake jewelry 51 Practical joker's buy 6 With 58-Across, 27 Marked a ballot 58 See e-Down certain victims 
29 Charming 59 Brazen 7 Stagger
33 Publicize 
8 "Dukes of 34 Banana oil, e.g. 60 Bring on board Hazzard" boss 
9 Robin Williams forte ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1oInvolve with, unwillingly 
!-=+=~~ 11 Seaman­novelist who 28 Consequently 40 "Will Rogers 53 Whom a served on the Follies" prop wannabe wants 
30 Artist Grant 
Pilgrim 45 Turkish topper to be
Wood, e.g. 12 Abbr. on a 47 "Big deal!" 54 The
31 Steamship
phone Midshipmen
staffs 49 Change at .:-:+.~~ 13 Nancy Drew's Chihuahua 55 Water barrier 
32 Rochester's
boyfriend 50 Jibe 56 Green land 
beloved21 "Shane" or 33 Wan 51 Music category 57 Split apart "Stagecoach" 35 What the hands 52 Junction point 58 Wisk rival 
22 How some ......,._=...j..:..:~= 11!!~~;,:+.:::-fl!l ~==-+=-=+--=-~ pkgs. come may show ~::.tt.;.,~=.j..;~~,:,...i 25 Nettle 38 Sharon and Get answers to any three clues :..:..:..j.:~~:.....j 26 Resort island off Shamir 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

Venezuela 39 Charleston 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

.:..;.L......L::~ 27 TV tube material ladies 
In the stadiums of ancient Rome, the most feared trial was the rub-your-stomach-and-pat­. -..,ur-head-at-the-same-time event. 
Congratulations 
David Kinney Kevin Hardman Meredith McCullough Kenya Johnson Rolando de Aguiar Anne Heroman Brian Kennedy Cheryl Moser Stephanie Goldman Mark Meenan Patrick Barth Brendan Regan 
and to all of the graduating seniors on staffl 
The Observer will miss you! 
Get a subscription to The Observer .--------------------------------,
I~ I 
and have the latest Notre Dame and  :  arne  :  
Saint Mary's news and sports delivered :A~dress  :  
to you for only $35 per semester or $60 for the Whole year.  :c,ty State Zip1 Send this coupon and payment to: I The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  : 1 I  

L-------------------------------~ 
-
I 
I 
~ 
' 
-
.. 
-
.. 


SPORTS 

page 36 
Men's tennis bids for region 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Associate Spons Editor 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team first burst on to the na­tional collegiate tennis scene when they advanced to the fi­nals of the NCAA Championship two years ago. 
The Irish have now further solidified their emergence as a national power by earning the right to host the 1994 NCAA Championships on May 21-29. 
However, despite these im­pressive accomplishments, the Irish will not be satisfied to be mere observers as the best in 
-
college tennis convene here on the Notre Dame campus. 
To advance into the newly configured NCAA's, the Irish will have to win the four-team Region IV Qualifying Tournament, being held here today and tomorrow at the Courtney Tennis Center. The 


-: --·-l~ 
.. -.,. 
-
Jeff Burris 

'The only place he doesn't play is on our extra point team.' 
-Lou Holtz 
By JASON KELLY Associate SportS Editor 

Jeff Burris doesn't fit the stereo­
type of the major college athlete. Off the field, that is. The full-time safety and part-time 
tailback is full of pleases and thank yous and always quick with a hand­shake and a smile. 
-
On the field, his disposition isn't so 
sweet. Burris, the first-round draft pick ofI the Buffalo Bills in this year's NFL 
I 
Draft, was one of the most versatile Notre Dame players since the incep­tion of single-platoon football. 
He played safety, tailback and was
I 
a fixture on special teams. "The only place he doesn't play is 
r 
on our extra point team and he could
• 
see BURRIS I page 33 

at Notre Dame May 21-29 
2nd-seeded Irish will have to 
get past No. 3 Michigan  today  
and  then  beat  No.  1  seed  
Minnesota on Saturday.  

In the past the top 20 teams in the nation advanced into the NCAA's, but with the regional play being instituted the Irish will have to defeat two tough foes to advance into the 16­team tournament. 
Michigan has always proven to be a tough competitor for the Irish, and this year was no dif-
Game of the Century 
By JASON KELLY But there was some­Associate Sports Editor Notre Darne sends thing special about that 'd gray November 
Let's face it. Notre tOp-ranked FlOri a Saturday, when the team Dame-Florida State was I. 'th many thought to be col-
only a football game. State ree Ing WI lege football's best ever It just carried a few a 31-24 defeat visited the season's 
extra incentives, like the No. 1 ranking and the inside track to the national champi­onship. 
Around here, that's enough to stir the ghosts of games past and make nuns pray for touchdowns. 
Okay, the nuns pray for touchdowns in regular games, too. 
ferent. The Wolverines gave the Irish all they could handle in a 4-3 squeaker in Ann Arbor in April. Senior Dan Brackus, who has beaten Notre Dame's top singles player Andy Zurcher two out of the last three times they have faced each other, leads the Wolverines into today's match. Brackus is ranked 20th nationally while Zurcher is ranked 27th. 
"We haven't looked past Michigan at all, " noted Irish head coach Bob Bayliss. "We are guardedly optimistic head­ing into the match. Dan Brackus has been nearly per­fect in regional play. 
"They have player much bet­ter as of late, so we are expect­ing a dogfight. We will be lucky to escape today," added Bayliss. If the Irish do escape the Wolverines, they will have their hands full against the top-seed­
see TENNIS/ page 29 
Year in Review 

biggest surprise. 
Surprise, the best team ever had some flaws. And a new chapter was written in Notre Dame football lore. "This was the biggest game I've ever been involved in, and it would have been 
see SURPRISE/ page 33 
• 


Kara Leary 
'I'm just glad I could be a part (of this season).' 
-Kara Leary 


By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Her last public appearance as a Notre Dame basketball player was a tearful one. 
Just moments earlier, her career came to an abrupt end when the Irish were upset by Minnesota in the first-round of the NCAA Tournament. 
Like the rest of her teammates, Kara Leary cried. They forgot the good times that led to that bitter moment and wept because it was over. 
But Leary's legacy is toughness, not tears. She was the gritty leader of a team that exceeded all expecta­tions, and she is the Observer 1994 Female Athlete of the Year. 
"This season put Notre Dame on 
see LEARY I page 33 

I 
l 
I 
~ ~ 
i 





