
_~aturd~y! August 2 7, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 1 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MAI\Y\ 
Campuses welcome 2,400 incoming freshman 
Irish receive wide variety of students 
BysARAHnoRAN News Editor 
Distinguished as Notre Dame's 22nd co­educational class, this year's incoming freshman class keeps the University on tar­get with the goal set in the Colloquy for the Year 2000, according to Director of Admissions Kevin Rooney. 
• see TRANSFERS, page 4 
Rooney estimates that 1,800 students will make up the class of 1998-a decrease from last year's 1,900 and from the 1,882 of the previous year. This class size will put the total undergraduate population at the Colloquy's target figure of about 7,600 stu­dents, he said. 
This also marks the third year that the University has implemented a gender-blind admissions process that gives women equal consideration in the admissions process, said Rooney. 
The result is a 55 to 45 male to female ratio-which is also characteristic of the sophomore and junior classes. The senior class has a 63 to 37 male to female ratio. 
Of 9,300 applicants, 3,900 highly quali­fied students were accepted to attend the University, said Rooney. The mean high school class rank shows students in the top seven percent of their high school class, with an average Scholastic Aptitude Test score of 1,215. 
Minorities make up 17 percent of the class-an increase over last year's 14 per­cent. In recent years, the Hispanic popula­tion has been the largest among incoming freshmen. According to Rooney, the class of 1998 is comprised of: 
• seven percent Hispanic; 
see WELCOME I page 4 

• f The Observer/Jake Peters Savmg ace Two employees of Conrad Schmitt Studios work on "The Word of Life" mural, a.k.a. Touchdown Jesus. For a related story see page 3. 
Expectations already set for Belles' 
By ELIZABETH REGAN Saim Mary's Editor 
The Admissions office at Saint Mary's holds high expec­tations for the College's 399 incoming freshmen, according to Director of Admissions Mary Pat Nolan . 
"I feel strongly that this year's freshman class will complement the returning body of students very nicely," Nolan said. 
"They are very strong stu­dents with a variety of inter­ests including athletics, service and leadership." 
The academic standards for admission has continued to rise this year. The average high school grade point aver­age for the class of 1998 is a 3.47 
Students have traveled from 34 different states, and seven foreign countries, in order to attend Saint Mary's this year. The regional breakdown of in­coming students is similar to that of the College's upper­classmen: 
• 
76 percent from the Midwest; 

• 
eight percent from the South; 

• 
six percent from the Middle States; 

• five percent from the West; 

• 
two percent from the South West; 


• one percent from New England; 
• two percent from other countries including Bulgaria, Bangledesh, Ecuador, Japan, Panama, Spain and Thailand. 
Orientation 1994 
Schedule ofEvents 
Saturday 1 p.m. Official Welcome and Introductory Ceremony, JACC 2 p.m. The Freshman Year of Studies and Student Affairs, JACC 3 p.m. Parent Orientation and General Session for all first-year 
students with their academic advisors, JACC 4-6 p.m. DeBartolo Classroom Building Information Fair on University programs and services, DeBartolo Hall. 7 p.m. Movie "Rudy" for parents followed by reception, 101 Debartolo Hall 
8:00 p.m. Students meet with hall rectors and staff, assigned hall 
9:30 p.m. Graffiti Dance with Other Dorms, Stepan Center. 
Sunday 8:30a.m. Continental Breakfast for Parents, Concourse of JACC 10 a.m. Eucharistic Liturgy for students and their families, JACC 
11 :30 a.m. Picnic lunch for students and their families, JACC 12:15-1 p.m. Introduction to Student Activities, JACC 
1
:30 p.m. Program and reception for Hispanic, African­American, Asian-American and American Indian students and their parents, JACC 

1
:30 p.m., 2:30 p.m. Campus tours, steps of Main Building 


2 p.m., 2:45 p.m., 3:30 p.m., 4:15 p.m. Student conducted pro grams on the Code of Honor, 101 Debartolo Hall 

Cavanaugh gets change of scenery as dorm population changes sexes 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Editor 
Speaking even before Cavanaugh's first official night as a women's dorm, Rector Sister Joanne Bauer, C.S.C., said that the hall's new residents are anticipating their new year "with tremendous spirit" as it opens its doors following conversion to a women's dorm during the summer. 
Among the 239 women moving into the hall this week are 54 freshmen, two transfer students and 163 students mov­ing in from other halls. 
As the residents and hall staff are tak­ing the opportunity to establish them­selves, they will continue to overcome the difficulties of beginning a new tradi­tion as a female dorm, said Bauer. 
But early returns on fostering dorm spirit are encouraging, she added. 
"I was caught up in the Cavanaugh women's spirit as soon as I talked to and met with different leadership groups like the acting hall council, R.A.'s and some students," said Bauer, who moved into the dorm August 1. 
At the same time, the dorm is trying to remain sensitive to its former residents, she said. 
"We can never understand the loss that Cavanaugh is to men who were here-we feel compassion for them and continue to pioneer the contemporary traditions of Notre Dame," said Bauer. 
Some former residents have trickled through the dorm recently "kind of look­ing around, a bit in awe as they can't believe its changed," said Michelle Trager, a resident assistant. 
"They are not upset, but supportive of us and happy that the dorm is renovated and just curious to see what its like," she added. 
Bauer said that she has found other rectors extremely supportive of her and has also received offers to put together joint projects with other dorms. Bauer is beginning her first year as a rector as a Saint Mary's graduate who also holds a masters in American Literature from Notre Dame. 
The physical changes to the dorm were "minimal" she said. Although students rooms were left unchanged, several additions make the dorm similar to other female dorms on campus.. 
Among the new features: 
• 
An exercise room was converted to a laundry room; 

• 
Bathrooms and showers were redone; 

• All hall carpets were replaced; 

• 
Bathrooms were upgraded to Handicapped facilities. 


The decision was made to convert Cavanaugh into a female residence hall by University officials. 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Saturday, August 27, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN RLD AT AGLANCE 
What duLac won't tell you 
You fmally made it here.------­After a year of agonizing over the results of applica­tions, acceptance letters, waiting lists, dorm assign­ments and roommates, you can sit back and relish the fact that you are now a student at the finest national Catholic research university known primari­ly for it's football team. 
But the first days of col­
lege never prove to be ________ easy. There are the tear­ful good-byes, arguments with parents over nothing and a body that can no longer tolerate shopping at Meijer's, Wal-Mart or K-Mart. But you persevered and made the trip to the hal­lowed grounds of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ready to face the challenges of college life. 
The anticipation that builds over the summer reaches a crescendo as thoughts float in and out of your mind of those wild college parties where parents never come home early and free beer flows from an eternal spring deep beneath the ~niversity. The idea of really studying and get­tmg straight A's is still an appealing (and attain­able) thought to you and not just to your par­ents. The hope of meeting that perfect partner of the opposite sex has not yet been foiled by the evils of parietals. 
As your first night on campus has probably already informed you, there are certain things about being a freshman that you will just have to deal with. Your room is small, the building is hot, and your parents won't let anyone forget how much they are paying for that small, hot room. But take heart-you will soon be finished with social mixer's (I'll always remember them as purgatory for the socially inept). 
While most come to school seeking indepen­dence from those overbearing people called parents, it is also important to recognize that Notre Dame has more rules than most small nations. There are section rules, dorm rules, du Lac (get used to it, it's everywhere) and if the university missed anything, all Indiana penal codes and statutes will still apply. Of course, realize that this will bring a wide smile to those overbearing parents of yours. 
In the spirit of these fine institutions, I wish to lay one more set of rules down for you. They are pretty simple and some may just prevent two or three thousand upperclassman from pointing at you and chanting "freshmen fresh­
men, ..." ' 
. • Stay up late. Sleep wastes valuable bonding time. 
• 
Study only when you have to. Trick ques­tion. That means all the time. 

• 
Eat out often. No tricks here. Sure, the pasta bar tastes good now, but wait three years from now. . • Introduce yourself to the person next to you zn class. Something I've never done effectively and always regretted. 

• 
Get involved. The century club is not an acceptable activity. 


• Never attempt the wave at a football game. Just trust me on this one. 
As I recall my own orientation weekend, there was this person who avoided meaningless con­versation by pretending to be looking for some­one the whole night. Use this only in an emer­gency. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Jake Peters Editor-in-Chief 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Jason Williams George Dohrmann Katie Murphy John Lucas Sports 
Susan Marx Jack.ie Moser
George Dohrmann Jason Kelly 
Accent Viewpoint 
Mary Good Suzy Fry Lab Tech Graphics Scott Mendenhall Sean Gallavan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righ15 are reserved. 

GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF 1993 FRESHMEN 
MIDWEST 42% 


New University Trustees elected 
University of Note Dame alumni Diana Lewis and Terrence McGlinn have been elected to the University's Board of Trustees. Lewis, a partner in the West Palm Beach, Fla., law firm of Gay, Ramsey & Lewis, P.A., was graduated from Notre Dame in 1974 with a bachelor's degree in sociology. After receiving a master's in educa­tion degree from Florida Atlantic University in 1976, she returned to Notre Dame and earned her law degree in 1982. A member of the Guild of Catholic Lawyers, Lewis also is active in professional societies including the American Academy of Hospital Attorneys and the National Health Lawyers Association. Prior to her elec­tion as a Trustee, she was a member of the Notre Dame Law School Advisory Council for five years. McGlinn is the founder, president and principal stockholder of McGlinn _Capital Management, Inc., based in Reading, Penn., with total assets of more than $2.8 billion under discretionary management. He also is co-owner of Lily's of Beverly Hills, a California-based sportswear design and manufacturing company. McGlinn was graduated from Notre Dame in 1962 with a bachelor's of business administration in accounting and earned his MBA in 1964 from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton Schoo! of Bu~ine~s. With his wife, Barbara, he is among the_ five. pymcipal benefactors underwriting the Umversity s new $23-million College of Business Administration complex, scheduled for completion for the fall _1995 sem~s~er. Aft11-y~ar member of the College of Busmess Admmistratwn AdVIsory Council before his elec­tion as a Trustee, McGlinn also serves on the University's President's Development Committee. McGlinn is director of Narrow Fabric Corporation, a Reading-based textile manufacturing firm; a member of the board and execu­tive committee of The Reading Hospital and Medical Center; and chairman of Colonial Oaks Foundation a Reading-based charitable organization. He has be~n active in fund-raising for numerous charitable and reli­gious organization including Alvernia College, the Boy Scouts, St. Ignatius Loyola Church, the March of Dimes and the United Way. The McGlinns are the parents of three Notre Dame graduates, Meg '87, John '90, and Christine '91. Their fourth child, Terry, Jr., recently com­pleted his sophomore year at the University. Notre Dame's board, established in 1967, currently is chaired by Andrew McKenna, chairman, president and chief executive officer of the Schwarz Paper Company of Morton Grove, Ill. The elections of Lewis and McGlinn raised the board's membership to 53. 

INDIANA Weather NATIONAL Weather 


Atlanta  87  61  "Denver  84  63  New Orleans 81  65  
Baltimore  85  51  Houston  92  60  NewYork  65  45  
Boston  70  56  Los Angeles 71  59  Philadelphia 68  49  
Chicago  70  53  Miami  85  75  Phoenix  98  68  
Colombus  90  59  Minneapolis 62  38  St. Louis  81  60  

Alumnus named new service director 
Edward Trifone, a 1988 University of Notre Dame grad­uate: has been appointed director of alumni community service for the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Trifone's appointment was announced by the association's execu­tive director, Charles Lennon, Jr. A native of Oak Park, ~ll., where ~e was graduated from Fenwick High School m 1983, Tnfone worked for a year as a graphic art pho­tographer in a Chic~go advertising firm before attending ~oly Cross College m South Bend. Following his gradua­tiOn from Holy Cross in 1986, he transferred to Notre Dame, where he majored in American Studies and was ~aduated in 1986. A Grace Hall resident, he was active m numerous extracurricular activities including the Notre Dame Encounter, the Student Tutorial Education Program and the Community for the International Lay Apostolate. He also was named first executive director of Grace Hall's unique intramural television station. He spent his summer vacations while at Notre Dame as a camp counselor at St. Theresa's Camp in Soldotna, Alaska, and as a counselor at Maryville Academy in Des Plaines, Ill. Following his graduation from Notre Dame and with assistance from the University's Center fo; Social Concerns, Trifone served a director of PRIDE Saskatoon, an alcohol and drug awareness program sponsored by the Mennonite Voluntary Service in Saskatchewan. He later worked in Salzburg, Austria, as a resident counselor and teacher at an international high school. For the last three years, Trifone has worked in the funeral service business, most recently as a funeral director in St. Joseph, Mich. Trifone's appointment became effective August 12. 
Associate Provost Charles to retire 
Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of inter­national study programs at the University of Notre Dame since 1982, will retire from that role to emerita status effective June 30, 1996, according to the University's provost, Timothy O'Meara. Effective July 1, 1995, she will begin a year's leave of absence, recapturing a leave she relinquished on assuming her presented duties. The first woman to hold the position of Dean at Notre Dame, Charles directed the University's College of Arts and let­ters, its largest academic unit, from 1976-1982. Previously, from 1973-76, she had served as an assistant dean of the college. "During Isabel's 21 years in Notre Dame's administration, the University has been enriched in many_ ways by her efforts, but most of all by the high academic standards she invariably has maintained," O'Meara said in making the announcement. 
Saturday, August 27, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3"' 


Library mosaic gets facelift ND campus receives 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
Associare News Ediror 
Now that it has scored a facelift, 'Touchdown Jesus' will be shining a little brighter. 
The 7,000 tiles and stones which make-up the mosaic, of­ficially named "The Word of Life," are being scoured and repaired piecemeal. Weather has worn awal' some caulk, paint, stone, and the University decided now was the time re­store some of the brilliance to the world's most famous foot­ball referee. 
"A small percentage of the mosaic tile has fallen off and all those pieces are being replaced with identical tiles," Mike Smith, director of facilities en­gineering said. "A consolidate and waterproofing will be ap­plied to worn and cracked stones to retard further deteri­oration." 
The entire mosaic is being re­caulked, Smith said, a process which involves grinding and then peeling out the defunct adhesive before replacing it with new caulk. 
"They have to make sure the old caulk is completely removed so the stones are adhered to the building and not the old caulk," he said. "There's some­thing like 12,000 linear feet of new caulk that they're putting in." 
Conrad Shmitt Studios, a company based in New Berlin, Wisconsin, is doing the job. 
They are the same firm who have cleaned the stained glass and renovated the ceiling in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and reguilded the top of the Administration Building's gold­en dome. Total project cost for the mosaic renovation is $280,000. 
A major reason for the mo­saic's deterioration is inade­quate maintenance, according to a study done by Conrad Shmitt prior to the renovation. 
Smith said the University will now take steps to maintain the mural after the renovation is complete. 
"We're going to have a thourough inspection of the mural every two or three years," he said. 

WELCOME WEEK '94 
brought to you by Student Activites and the Student Union Board 
Wednesday, August 31 
4pm to IOpm 
OPEN HousE-
LAFoRTUNE SnmENr CENTER Stop on in and see what we have to offer ­Visit otr~ees and businesses, play Virtual Reality hear live music, have your fortunes ,told, lots ofother ~ovelty even_ts, f~ f~. and tons ofdoor prizes including Amencan Airline tickets, CD players, concert tickets, ND sweatshirt, pi~ and much, much more! 1! 

8pm to I am 
LATE NIGHT MoviE FEST 
Free Movies aU night long in the LaFortune BaUroom 


Thursday, September 1 
6pm to 11 pm 
ROCKFEST lll ­
FIEI.nHOUSE MAIL The following bands are scheduled to appear. George .and the Freaks; Roap Apples; Sunshme Wine; True North; VRS 
Fre~pc~orn and Soda' ' ' 
~w 
... 

aJT 'Jl'ftE 
8:00pm  Singles  
9:45 pm  Dazed and Confused  
II:25 pm  Reality Bites  
Free Popcorn and Soda! ! !  


~ 
Saturday, September 2 
7:30pm to 1 am 
FooTBALL, GAMES, & MoviES 
7:30pm  Watch the ND v. Northwestern game on the big  
screen in The Huddle or the Gorch Games room.  
8 pm, 10 pm,  The hit movie Four Weddings anda Funeral.  
& 12 am  FREE in the Montgomery Theatre.  
9 pm -1 am  Free billiards in the Gorch Games Room.  
lOpm-llpm  Free video games in the Gorch Games Room.  

Back To School 
OUR ALREADY REDUCED PRICES 
277-9711 
summer touch-ups 
By JASON WILLIAMS 

Associare News Ediror 
Notre Dame's maintenance and landscape departments spent a large portion of the summer giving the campus a tune-up. 
One of the biggest overhauls was the renovation of Pasquerilla East and Pasquerilla West residences halls, according to Director of Maintenance Chuck Thomas. All walls and hallways were painted, new carpet was laid and new security systems were installed. 
"We installed an electronic card access system-it has a magnetic strip like a credit card," Thomas said. "It's an advanced system which will al­low access to be monitored and controlled." 
This new card-swipe access system was installed in six of the twelve aU-female dorms this summer. Thomas said Maintenance will be developing plans and specifications this winter for implementing this new system in the remainder of the female dorms with next summer set as a tentative in­stallation date. 

Operations personnel also landscaped the area surround­ing the new on-campus child­care center for faculty children. 
"One thing that was kind of neat that we did was the bush­es," Bill Thistlethwaite, land­scape services superintendent, said. "It's the kind of bushes that were in Edward Scissorhands. There's a dog, a cat, a goose, a turtle and some others." 
The center opens Aug. 29 at capacity enrollment of 170. 
Upgrading campus laundry facilities was another major summer project, Thomas said. 
"We installed new washers and driers and worked on im­proving the air space in the laundry rooms so the driers won't eat the quarters as bad," Thomas said. 
Maintenance crews also placed new windows in O'Shaughnessy, Riley and Cushing Halls. 

Promotions given to more than 50 profs 
Special to The Observer 
Fourteen members of the University of Notre Dame fac­ulty have been advanced to emeritus rank, and promotions have been announced for 44 others, including the appoint­ment of three faculty members to endowed chairs. 
The new endowed professors are Xavier Creary, Huisking professor of chemistry and bio­chemistry; William Dwyer. Hank professor of mathematics; and Andrew Sommese, Duncan professor of mathematics. 
The new faculty emeriti are Charles Benjamin Alcock, Freimann professor of electri­cal engineering and director of the Center for Sensor Materials; Cornelius Browne, professor of physics; Sperry Darden, profes­sor of physics; Bernard Doering, professor of romance languages and literatures; Emerson Funk Jr.• professor of physics; V. Paul Kenney, profes­sor of physics; Chau Le. associ­ate dean of the Graduate School; Capt. William McLean, associate dean and professor of law; Rev. Ernan McMullin, O'Hara professor of philosophy; · Edward Murphy, Matthews pro­fessor of law; Wilhelm Stoll, Duncan professor of mathemat­ics; C. William Tageson, associ­ate professor of psychology; Kenyon Tweedell, professor of biological sciences; and Donald Vogl, associate professor of art, art history and design. 

Advanced to the rank of pro­fessor from associate professor are Rev. Thomas Blantz, his­tory; Maureen Barry McCann Boulton, romance languages and literatures; Bruce Bunker, physics; Norman Crowe, archi­tecture; Jeanne Day, psychol­ogy; Umesh Garg, physics; Marc Jarsulic, economics; Juan Migliore, mathematics; Dian Murray. history; Kathie Newman, physics; William O'Rourke, English; Jaime Bosch Ros, economics; and Mihir Sen, aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
Receiving tenure are Carolyn Callahan, associate professor of accountancy; Robert Fishman, associate professor of sociology; Joan Godmilow, associate pro­fessor of communication and theatre; Michael Lykoudis, as­sociate professor of architec­ture; and H. Fred Mittelstaedt, associate professor of accoun­tancy. 
New associate professors with tenure, promoted from assis­tant professor. are Ani Aprahamian, physics; Peter Bauer. electrical engineering; Sunny Boyd, biological sci­ences; Joan Brennecke, chemi­cal engineering; Mark Chaves, sociology; Rev. William Dohar, history; Leonid Faybusovich, mathematics; Gregory Gundlach. marketing; Bei Hu, mathematics; Hilary Radner, communication and theatre; and Joseph Wawrykow, theol­ogy. 
Other promotions include 

• 
CARPET • VINYL MON.-FRI 9:00-8:30 Peter Diffiey to associate dean of the Graduate School;

• 
WOOD • CERAMIC SAT. 9:00-5:30 


Joachim Goerres, physics, to

• AREA RUGS SUN. 1:00-5:30 
associate faculty fellow; Sophia Jordan and Rafael Tarrago to Decorators Walk Shopping Center • Grape at Day., Road, Mishawaka associate librarians; and Ross Shanley-Roberts to assistant li­
OVER. 1000 CARPET REMNANTS ON SALE! brarian. 
page4 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS Saturday, August 27, 1994 

Saint Mary's celebrates its birthday with style 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's kicked off the second semester of the Sesquicentennial year Wednesday night with a com­munity wide birthday party featuring a cake in the shape of Le Mans Hall and a fireworks finale. 
The event, chaired by Director of Building Services Marilyn Rajski, involved a com­munity wide effort by the College, according to Maureen Manier, Director of Communications. 
"The party was organized and staffed by employees not usually involved in the planning of this type of event," Manier said. "They have worked for months and knocked them­selves out in addition to their regular jobs. 
"The involvement of everyone has made the Sesquicentennial year so successful," she said, "the birthday party is just an­other example of this." 
The faculty and staff of Saint Mary's extended their welcome to the South Bend community by giving tours of the campus and providing games and face painting for children. 

College President William Hickey and President of Holy Cross congregation Catherine O'Brien did the honors of cut­ting the cake, donated by the Marriot Food Services. 
Although students were not in session for the birthday party, there will be many more opportunities for them to par­ticipate in the on-going sesquicentennial celebration, according to Manier. 
All students will be given the opportunity to see Maya Angelou in October, as well as many other women who are at the forefront of their fields, Manier said. 
Saint Mary's will continue to celebrate their Sesquicentennial year with speakers and activities for stu­dents and faculty throughout the fall semester. 






DIRECT FROM MANUFACTURER 


IUSB! 
GREReview 

LSATReview 
3 Wed. & 2 Sat. 2 Mon. & 2 Tues. 6-10 p.m. Wed. 
6-10 p.m. 
8 a.m.-noon Sat begins Sept. 10 begins Sept. 12 
Intensive strategy review at less than halfthe cost ofother programs. 
IUSB Continuing Education 
1700 Mishawaka Avenue 
Call237-4261 for info 
Geographically, the University traditionally attracts
Welco01e 
a broader distribution of stu­dents than most other schools,
continued from page 1 explained Rooney. This year was no different, as Rooney
• five percent Asian­
estimated that: American; 

• 42 percent come from the
• four percent African­
Midwest;American; 

• 24 percent from the• one percent American 
Northeast;Indian. 

• 13 percent from the West; 
• 
10 percent from the Southeast; 

• 
9 percent from the Southwest; and 

• 
two percent from foreign countries. 


An estimated 22 percent of this year's incoming freshmen are children of alumni-a figure that is in keeping with recent trends. 

Be a Volunteer sponsor o RCIA or Confirmation! 
This year, some ofyour peers, maybe even afriend or someon 
ou know from ilown the hall will decide to become Catholi through RCIA. The way it works is, we all learn together from each other... you, as a sponsor, would answer questions, but you'probably discover thatyou had some questions too. 
Which would be agood thing. 
Sponsors seroe as friends, companions, and guides to other stu dents as they prepare to take new steps in their lives offaith. 
Sponsor Information Sessions 
RCIA: for students who wish to become Catholic Christians 
Monday, September 5, 6:30p.m., Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center 
Confinnation: for baptized Catholics who wish to receive the Sacrament ofConftnnation 
Monday, September 12 at 6:30p.m., Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall 
Questions? Call or see: 
Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. Office of Campus Ministry I 03 Hesburgh Library (CMPUS 
1-7800 or 1-5056 MINISTRY 

GRAINS & GRINDS 

lBJttll~l!"?t~fo 
NEW YoRK-STYLE BAGELS HAVE CoME To ToWN 
BllKels (NEW YoRK STYLE) 
Plain  Sesame  Poppy  Garlic  
Wheat  Salt  Onion  Cheese  
Pumpernickel  Everything  

Garlic Cinnamon & Raisin Blueberry Chocolate Chip 

SPREADS & SANDWICHES 
•
Plain & Flavored Cream Cheeses 

•
Delicious Fish & Chicken Salads 


• Fine Deli Meats 
As WELLAS 

•Knishes 
•Bageldogs 

•Salads/Soups 
•Desserts 


Coffee <EvERv STYLE) 
Regular &FlatJOrf?d Gourmet Co.lfoes Espresso/CappuccinoCa.lfo Mocha FlatJOrf?d Ca.lfo Latte 
CaD Todayfor Unique Catering Options foryourNext Brunch or Party 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
310 W. Cleveland Rd. Just East ofGrape, by U.P. Mall 

272-7023 

Saturday, August 27, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Student football tickets go on sale Wednesday 
llad1elhaeK 
1...----------You've got questions. We've got answers.sM -----------l 
By JASON WILLIAMS tickets to this season's six home Associate News Editor games. Ticket booklets cost $84 to be paid in the form of cash or 
The distribution of student check. football tickets will be com­In addition to payment, stu­pressed into three days, begin­dents must also present their ning Wednesday, August 31. valid student ID. Each student 
in line can hold up to four ID's. All Notre Dame and Saint Seniors can obtain booklets Mary's students are guaranteed beginning Wednesday morning 

S49 Cassette note-taker with 
tapes, cleaner and more! 
v Voice-activated cassette for hands-free recording v 5-pack of 90-minute cassette tapes v Cassette head cleaner kit v Complete with batteries 
Cut 36% Reg. separate items 77.66 #14·1055, #44-997/1162. #23-557 
DORM ROOM CHECK UST 
0 Telephone . 0 Answering Machine 
0 Telephone Jack 
0 Door Alarm 
0 Motion Sensor Alarm 
0 Clock Radio 
0 Desktop Calculator 
0 Data Organizer 
0 Electronic Spell Checker 
0 Tape Recorder 
0 Computer 
0 Printer 
0 Diskettes, Printer Paper 
0 Extension Cords . 
0 Electrical Power Stnp 
0 Flashlight 
0 Batteries 
from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. Juniors until 7 p.m. can obtain booklets on Students residing in the Thursday from 7 a.m. until 2 dorms will receive ticket appli­p.m., while law students can cations in their mailboxes while receive theirs from 2 p.m. until Off-Campus students are 7p.m. encouraged to pick up their 
On Friday, sophomores can applications Monday or obtain booklets from 7 a.m. Tuesday on the second floor until 2 p.m., and freshmen can ticket window of the JACC. receive their tickets from 2 p.m. They may also pick them up at 
Saint Mary's gets clean-up 
By PATTI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
A new feature at Saint Mary's College is the statue display in front of Madeleva Hall. 
But before the statue could be erected and the plaque mount­ed, there was much work to do in preparation. 
The flower bed around the statue is one of 15 beds that must be maintained on the campus grounds, according to Lamar Grady, assistant super­visor of college grounds. 
"We grow a majority of our flowers in the greenhouse from seed," he said. "We sew the seeds prior to Christmas. The flowers are transplanted from 3 to 4 pots in the greenhouse be­fore we actually plant them outside in the beds." 
Sometimes there are as many as 250 tulip bulbs displayed in one garden, according to Grady. 
Aside from plowing and shov­eling snow in the winter, the grounds crew also has thou­sands of plants to grow and 

saa Move-in kit with phone, 
power strip, lots more! 
v Desk/wall phone with lighted keypad, in your choice of white, almond or gray v 25-ft. dual-jack phone extension II' 6-outlet power strip v 2-in-1 screwdriver v 6-outlet AC plug v 15-ft. AC cord Cut 23% Reg. separate items 50.84 

#43-585, 6 or 7, #279-363, #61-2718/2748/2622, #64-1950 
We've got answers to make dorm life more livable! Check out our selection of clock radios, mini stereos and telephones, plus our convenient back-to-campus packs. 


3-way single outlet surge suppressor, reg. 12.99 H61-2794 ••• SALE 6.99 
Plus These Back-to-School AC Accessories 

at Everyday Low Prices 4-outlet plug converts std. wall outlet to 4 plugs, H61-2621 ••• 2.99 6-outlet plug converts std. wall outlet to 6 plugs, #61-2622 ... 3.99 3-outlet plug converts single plug to 3 plugs, #61-27os ••••... 2.49 6-outlet AC power strip with on/off switch, #61-2718 ••.•..••••• 3.99 6-foot extension cord in white or brown, #61-2744or61-274s ..... 1.99 9-foot extension cord in white or brown, #61-2746or61-2747 ..... 2.39 15-foot extension cord, brown only, #61-2748 •..•••••••..•.•.•.• 3.39 
i'!.JRTH POINTE PLAZ/, 

the same time they are receiv­ing their tickets. 
Also, The Shirt '94 is now available for $14 to the University community and gen­eral public at the Bookstore, Irish Express, the LaFortune Information Desk and the Varsity Shop in the JACC. 
care for in the greenhouse, Grady said. 
"There is always work to be done," he said. "We have 5 people working from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. each day to keep the place looking like this." 
Wild geese are nuisance the grounds grew also has to watch. 
"We contacted the DNR (Department of Natural Resources) to take the geese to another lake, but somehow they just keep coming back," Grady said. 
Transfer's welcomed to campus 
By SARAH DORAN News Editor 
Notre Dame admitted 175 transfer students and re-admit­ted 30 students this year, while Saint Mary's admitted 51 transfer students, according to Kevin Rooney, director of Notre Dame admissions and Mary Pat Nolan, director of Saint Mary's admissions. 
With 511 applicants for transfer into Notre Dame, it was a "typical year, with only a slight increase in those seeking transfer admission," said Rooney. Last year the University saw 450 applicants, admitting 150. 
For the second year in a row, the College of Arts and Letters admitted the largest number of transfer students, followed closely by the College of Business Administration. 
Although final numbers are not yet available, Rooney said that two-thirds of all Notre Dame transfer students have been admitted to either the College of Arts and Letters or the College of Business Administration. The rest of the students are evenly divided among the College of Architecture, College of Engineering, and the College of Science. 
The male/ female ratio for transfer students is similar to that of the freshman class, which stands at 55/45. 
The 30 students re-admitted 
to the University is a ten stu­
dent decrease from last year. 
Whether or not a students is 
re-admitted varies from situa­
tion to situation, he said. 
At Saint Mary's, the number of transfer students is down only one from last year's figure of 52 students, according to Nolan. They have been admit­ted from 11 states and follow the same geographic distribu­tion as the freshman class. 
Saint Mary's Editor Beth Regan contributed to this story. 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
Rooms in private homes for: Jf"W, BLUE & GOLD, GRADUATION, 
FOOTBAll -OtMt Special NDISMC WEEKENDS 
(219) 291-7153 




page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 27, 1994 
ears ofMusical excellence, touring and travel, rish spirit, and song. Come join one ofthe old­est and richest ofcampus traditions... 






OTRE 
AME 

Audition opportunities for the 1994-95 year: 
Sunday, August 2 8 Monday, August 29 Tuesday,August 30 
Sign up for an audition at Crowley Hall of Music today!! 
Saturday, August 27, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page? 
r----=-----------------~c~----------------.. 
f ~c' ~'~ 


l Catch
' 
I 

the Action! 

Notre Datne vs. Northwestern Saturday, September 3rd 
Round trip bus transportation to Soldier Field 
(Buses leave at 3:00 PM from Alumni/Senior Club) Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info. Desk 
Game tickets available at the LaFortune Info.-Desk with Student I.D. 

Sponsored by Student Activities 

~--------------------------------------~ 
The Catholic Community at Notre Dame Welcomes You! 
Are you considering being baptized? 
Are you thinking about becoming a Catholic? 
Ifso, you are welcome to find out how this can happen at Notre Dame. 
You are invited to an information session: 
Sunday, September 4, 4:30p.m. Notre Dame Room -Lafortune Student Center 
or 
Wednesday, September 7, 10:00 p.m. Campus Ministry Office -103 Hesburgh Library 
Questions? Call Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 

0MPUS
1-7800 or 1-5056 
MINISTRY 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
Can't stop eating 'em 

Freshman Dave Calise, a Keenan Hall resident, fills up on chips at a freshman picnic Friday night at Stepan field. 

Presidents dinner awar-ds faculty, staff 
Special to The Observer 
Fifteen University of Notre Dame faculty member and three staff members were awarded special recognition at the annual presidents' dinner for their contributions to the Notre Dame community. 
Sonia Gernes, professor of English, this year was the first woman recipient of the Faculty Award, given in recognition of her creativity and "uncommon generosity" in service and ad­ministration. Gernes, a faculty member since 1975, is an award-winning poet and novel­ist. 
Two 1994 Graduate School Awards were presented. Joan Aldous, Kenan professor of so­ciology and a prominent figure in the field of family sociology, was cited as "living proof that great scholarship and great teaching go hand in hand." Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science and Kleiderer-Pezold professor of chemistry and biochemistry, was recognized as a "marvel of multiple talents"-a prolific scholar, a gifted lecturer, a successful administrator and an efficient laboratory director. 
The annual Rev. Paul Foik Award was given to Rafael Tarrago, assistant librarian, who "has used his skill not only to build a better Latin American collection, but also to find resources for its support." 
Irwin Press, professor of an­thropology, was named the re­cipient of the 1994 Thomas Madden Award for outstanding teaching of freshmen. Cited as a "tough taskmaster," Press was recognized for possessing a contagious enthusiasm and provoking curiosity about the world. 
Bernard Doering, professor of romance languages and lit­eratures, received the 1994 Reinhold Niebuhr award for demonstrating a "lifelong com­mitment to social justice through active involvement here with the Catholic Worker House and the Center for the Homeless." 

The Grenville Clark Award, honoring members of the com­munity "whose voluntary activ­ities and public service advance the cause of peace and human rights," was presented to Brother Bonaventure Scully, Keenan Hall rector and adjunct instructor in the Freshman Writing Program. 
Sister Joris Binder, Pasquerilla East rector, re­ceived the 1994 John "Pop" Farley Award, named for the one-time rector of Sorin Hall and presented for exceptional service in student affairs. 
Rev. H. Thomas McDermott, director of special projects in campus ministry, received the 1994 Rev. William Toohey Award, which is given annually to one whose preaching, writ­ing and example embody the social dimension of the Gospel in a remarkable way. 
Special Presidential Awards, honoring those who have given dedicated service over the years, were presented to William Berry. professor of electrical engineering; Michael Etzel, acting chair and profes­sor of marketing; Edward Kline, professor of Englsih and O'Malley director of the Freshman Writing Program; Edward Murphy, Matthews professor of law; and Erskine Peters, professor of English. Also receiving Presidential Awards were two couples­Paul Bosco, associate professor emeritus of romance languages and literatures, and Vittoria • Bosco, adjunct assistant profes­sor of romance langauges and literatures; and Ronald Hellenthal, professor of biologi­cal sciences and director of the Environmental Research Center, and Barbara Hellenthal, curator of the Greene-Nieuwland Herbarium. Barbara Hellenthal is the au­thor of "Trees, Shrubs and Vines on the Notre Dame Campus," recently published by Notre Dame Press. 
-----~-----­
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 27, 1994 
. 



Attention all Grad Students! 
GSU Orientation Week 


EATS...DRINKS... MUSIC ... 
FREE! FREE! FREE! FREE! FREE! 
Barbecue & Cookout! 
Thursday, September 1 5:30-7:00 p.m. FOG Graduate Residence Parking Lot Special Entertainment for Kids 
Hosted vvith Carnpus Ministry 
Party! Party! Party! 
Saturday, September 3 9:00-12:30 p.m. Senior Bar 21 ID Required NO COVER CHARGE! 
GRADUATE STUDENT ORIENTATION WEEK -AUGUST 25 THROUGH SEPTEMBER 3 Date Event Location Time 
Thursday, Aug. 25 International Student Orientation LaFortune Ballroom 9:00a.m. 
~:t::O::'W-::7<'~S:,·;»r4::::S~~~~:t:::;;:._;,.::.~~~>AW-%W".:::P.~::t::~~,~~;·;-:~~:::;~~:?,WJ':~~:<;:JJ<:::t"~::;;W;w::::<@k%'i:ilit•J.!!::W~~~.m;~~~~;,=&e:W«~<::<~'::W·:.<>:<:,>:-»,~1.;~X~:x~~W$:'f~W~~~~~.:'.@?.~::X''!l<f.~·:$::::>,..:{'':.>X.:·:· ;,~:~.~.>·;<-.;;~,. 
Friday, Aug. 26 Enrollment JACC 8:30a.m.-4:30p.m. 
"*·.;.:.~:;:.:-.:.;:x.:~·=··-:«1.;.~:~<W..:~~..:Z<;?::·W.::;-:::~·=::<·B::X.::~·~-i·:,:~~~.33X;m::i;:~~:;"lmti* >?!W • ··~~(~~~~.;$';;::«;:::«'(~~..~ >, .. 
Saturday, Aug. 27 Teaching Workshops for Faculty Center for Continuing Education 8:30-9:00 a.m. ancfGraduate Students (see TA Brochure for details) (lunch in CCE Dining 12-1 p.m.) 
Sunday, Aug. 28 Graduate Student Mass & Reception Fischer Graduate Community Center Mass 10:30 a.m. Reception 11 :30 a.m. Campus Tours Meet at main gate traffic circle 1:00 p.m. 
Video Introduction to Notre Dame Debartolo Room 131 7:00p.m. 
~~~::!$2:,~~.:::>'::-~~~::::::t.:$~:·=~r~"t~~~"$~~~~4i:%:~s;:~m:;; . !! ! ! . ~~w.;:;;~;:wn~ma-==-~-~-~-::,~~~.s--:>W..w>mw-:=IDm"~~~<r.:::m:.~Z:=m::=m~w-:?.?-%~~~~~''·'~"'~~«-:~~<:..w:-.-=:::<.;w:::>"".<:::><w..::r::..~<:W'Y'~~-~-::x·~~-; · r· ...:::.:..............~~ 
Monday, Aug. 29 Orientation Brunch and Professional Center for Continuing Education Registration 9:30a.m. Development Workshop · Dining Han Brunch 10:00-11 :00 a.m. Workshop 11:00-12:30 p.m. Tuesday, Aug. 30 Women's Guide to Surviving Grad School Lafortune Center -Notre Dame Room 4:30-5:30p.m. GSU Volleyball Stepan Center Outdoor Courts 6:00-8:00 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 1 Dissertation Workshop LaFortune Center -Notre Dame Room 4:30-5:30 p.m. Cookout for all graduate students and family Fischer Graduate Community Center 5:30-7:00 p.m. Saturday, Sept. 3 Welcome Back Party for all graduate Senior Bar 9:00-12:30 p.m. students and significant others 21 ID Required 
Any questions? Please call the GSU Office at 637-6963. 
Saturday, August 27, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 9 


ND gets nearly $2 million in grants during May 
Special to The Observer research and various programs. cellular automata by Wolfgang 
Research funds totaled Porod, professor of electrical 
The University of Notre Dane $1,385,471, including: engineering; Craig Lent, asso­received $1,851,582 in grants • $302,949 from the U.S. ciate professor of electrical en­during May for the support of Navy for research on quantum gineering; and others. 

• 
$112,800 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by algebraic and geo­metric topology by Laurence Taylor, chair and professor of ••1athematics, and William Dwyer, professor mathematics. 

• 
$94,968 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Laura Pyrak-Nolte, assistant professor of civil engi­neering and geological sciences, on computer-aided visualization of crack and fracture geometry. 

• 
$90,000 from the National Science Foundation for optical studies of heterostructures by Malgorzata Dobrowolska­Furdyna, associate professor of physics; Jacek Furdyna, Marquez professor of physics; and others. 

• 
$89,659 from the National Institutes of Health for research on training in mental retarda­tion by John Borkowski, McKenna professor of psychol­ogy, and Thomas Whitman, professor of psychology. 

• 
$88,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Xavier Creary, Huisking professor of chemistry and biochemistry, on carban­ion, carbocation, carbenic and electron transfer. 



• 
$70,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search on seismic protection of structure by Nicos Makris and Davide Hill, assistant professors of civil engineering and geolog­ical sciences. 

• 
$60,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search on algebraic methods in systems theory by Joachim Rosenthal, assistant professor of mathematics. 

• 
$59,774 from the U.S. Department of Energy for re­search for Hsueh-Chia Chang, chair and professor of chemical engineering, on wave dynamics on failing films. 

• 
$50,000 from Research Corp. for research on artificial metal cation and saccharide co­transporters by Bradley Smith, assistant professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 

• 
$47,804 from the National Science Foundation for analysis and visualization of stochastic systems by Billie Spencer Jr., associate professor of civil en­gineering and geological sci­ences. 

• 
$45,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Steven Ruggiero, as­sociate professor of physics, on single electron tunneling and spectroscopy. 

• 
$39,599 from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center for research by Robert Nelson, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering on tail buffeting due to vortex breakdown. 

• 
$37,037 from the National Institute of Standards and Technology for research by A. Eugene Livingston, professor of physics, on highly charges ions in an electron beam ion trap. 

• 
$33,853 from the National Science Foundation for re­search on the fate of trace met­als in freshwater sediments by Jean-Francois Gaillard, as­sistant professor of civil engi­neering and geological sciences. 

• 
$30,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by John Renaud, Clark assistant professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on multidisciplinary design op­timization development. 

• 
$19,150 from the National Science Foundation for re­search on geophysical equip­ment for archaeology by Mark Schurr, visiting assistant pro­fessor of anthropology, and James Bellis, associate profes­sor of anthropology. 

• 
$18,600 from the American Heart Association Indiana chapter for research on proper­ties of synthetic peptide analogs of protein C domains by Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science and Kleiderer-Pezold professor of chemistry and bio­chemistry, and Mary Frances Prorok, postdoctoral research associate. 

• 
$15,000 from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Lune Planetary Institute for research by Stephen Tegler, visiting faculty fellow in physics. and Terrance Rettig, professional specialist and concurrent associate pro­fessor of physics. 

• 
$10,000 from the American Heart Association Indiana chapter for research on struc­ture-function relationships of protein C by Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science and Kleiderer-Pezold professor of chemistry and biochemistry, and William Christiansen, grad­uate. 


Other major corporations and industries also contributed. 


page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 27, 1994 
.. ~ < -~ 

.. . 
·l~·J>'.' 
~­

·.j 
:. ·, • ~~ > .• '· '.:. / ' :> . 
........ 
', :;/ 
·-. ...·.. '·:--:--.~-; ;" ;..·~.-•:.·~--·~; ~ _:_··:~_·:) 
.·-.·.. _..,__ 
. ' . 

.. 
~'
:;c;,·;: 
'<, ••• 
: :, ~~ .... ,... .. ""'"'..,... ..... ;......,., """"'... ' ....i....,._"__-·-·..,......"""'·-·"____ .........__1'1 r
l .....,,..., 

·.. 
/'* ~ .~ 1' 
' > ,. 
. ; 
'j 
' I 
ItJ.• 
.::,.",···.!;.;, 
.;­

' 
··~" 
./ I 
,' / 
.;
/ ;·: 
-.:.: {> ~ ' / _.... 
~ 

\ 
~ ........... rr: ;Cilt~ ...4..,_..........._.. ' -,._. .......,. 
~ 


··.·Welcoflle Back Students!· . . 
Free "GEAR". Cap with Purchase.Of GEAR.sweatshirt: . 
.•. ' ·,-. 
•.,.. ., . . <' .., _...~··:· / . :• . 

·-o.r GEAR.Jacket! 
•1! ·" .•• :·• --!~! \

Friday • 9am-7pm·~~1 ·••· .--~·· ·.·~ 
. 
. . 
.·:s/27 ·_ --SatUrday ·. • · 9atn,-7pm~~< .. 
. . > ' / • • • 
8/2.9 .. ·.Monday • ·9~t.n:-6ptn·: ':· .. 8/3<) ·TuesdaY •• 9am~6pm:,~ ,. 
~ • < ' ' •' 
·-Wednesday·• .9am~_6pt.n_·· .. : .. 
. "; ''/ ,-~ 

. '­
-~ ..-' ;_ . .. 
.· ... 


.. . 


.. 
< ~ .•. h
·.. : /
~;_ 
>. 
·'t-:<·' • 
.·. , .. ; ~ 

;_-.:-.··· .. •. ·_:.As_.~_k_. for itby· name. • :A.t .· 
. ·~ .~\.S'~\·.--;:. _... · <. 
-~;· -;:~'iliflr~~r~~i-~;~j~fle ·Hamtnes.:~.... /:Sf4~::.. .·· ... ~~IIIIPYD£WE·•·no·0KsJitm: 
-..-,.

:.~,:;;_;~·.:;-~;\.~~~~j?/···':. . ·~~9_n the campus" 


VIEWPOINT 
Saturday, August 27, 1994 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is repotted as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spotts Editor, and Saint Mary's .Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessanly those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix · observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT 
We're fookifig for a f 
g 
'Q, freshmeri,:, 
Well n<>w that you are finally hete and having per­haps the best weekend of your ~~f~y bow col; lege applications and SATs' suddenly seem· so worth­while-welcome to The Qhs~rver and V.i~~int 
Do1.1't let all those apathetic upperclassmen fool you, Viewpoint hosts the most heated, intense debates in the entire Michiana regional area. You'll rmd everything and anything in our letters, columns and editorials. Some of the pieces may offend or please you, and some (}f them may even trigger such deep, dark impassioned emotions;;.,....you know the ones that no one ever admits to experiencing-that you will make it your sole duty in life to respond. 
Regardless of what compels you, Viewpoint is dependent upon your involvement. So if you become too terribly nauseated by reading the incessant abor. tion and football commentaries-all time· favorites for .Notre Dame and SalntMary's-;lon~tl)e afraid to introduce something new,:. Trust me, yen:~ Will be as popular as the Leperchaun, maybe evenLou. 
Soon enough you'll be looking for Josh ()zersky's satire or Gary Caruso's Washington beat Our Inside Column on page 2 offers unique student perspectives every day. Last year's editorials covered everything from AIDS awareness to investment in South Africa to the Grateful Dead. Viewpoint and The Observer provide too many interesting and diverse .thi}:lgs for you to just sit back all:(.~: follow the slPtl}ful ways of your predecessors. <Y •·· 
The Observer is also a great place to work. espe~ cially Viewpoint, with some of· the most interesting people Notre Dame and Saint Mary'shave to offer, So if you like to write or draw. sh(lot p~otos or work on computers, or even. seU a f~w ad~~~t~~~.;petth~ third floor of LaFortune scare you off. ) /''' .: . ,'<: 
Remember next week when the monotonous life of classes finally starts· and the dining hall food begins to take its effects, thatVieWpoint will tilways be here to interest and intrigue you. The Observer, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's need your enthusiasm. so please don't be afraid to share it with us. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Maythe Force be with 
you!" 
-George Lucas Star Wars, 1977 
Viewpoint department policy 
the same individual or organization pear in the Viewpoint section as let­within the same academic semes­ters to the editor. Regular colum­
Rules ofthe 
ter. There is no limit to the number nists and members of the Viewpoint of times an individual or organiza­staff also are not eligible to have tion-lBay have their commentaries their commentaries appear in the 

road and 
appear in print as columnists. Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. The status of such individu­
VI 
All commentaries printed als is determined by the Viewpoint 
in the Viewpoint section 


other stuff. • • 
editor. 

must be verified before being printed. Authors of all XIThis policy must be ap­
I 
All members of the Notre Dame 
columns, letters to the editor, proved by the editorial and Saint Mary's community quotes, poems and cartoons must board and can be amend­may submit columns, letters to 
be notified before being published ed by a majority vote of the editori­the editor, quotes, poems or car­in The Observer. al board. All procedures not cov­toons to the Viewpoint department ered in this policy statement are leftof The Observer. Individuals not 
VI I 
Only those individuals 
to the discretion of the Viewpoint associated with the Notre Dame 
authorized to speak as 

editor. The procedures outlined in and Saint Mary's community are 
representatives for a 
this policy apply only to the also welcome to submit, but prefer­

group will be allowed to use the 
Viewpoint department of The 

ence is given to members of the organization's name. In such cases, Observer.
University communities. 
the primary author of the commen­tary is the individual(s). and the No commentaries of 
I I 
All material submitted to the commentary is, in effect, only being any kind will be printed Viewpoint department 
co-signed by the organization. in the Viewpoint sec­
XII

becomes the property of The tion concerning any candidate for Observer. Any further use of these 
VI I I 
Commentaries 
student government or hall office commentaries without the written w.hich ~ppear ~n the once the official campaign period consent of The Observer is pro­
V1ewpomt sectiOn 

has begun for that office. This banhibited. Not-for-profit organiza­may not have on commentaries is tions, those organizations which been printed pre­to continue until the have a reciprocal-usage agreement viously in other election for this posi­
and those organizations of which newspapers, mag­' letters to the editor tion has been com­The Observer is a member may be 
azines or pub­may not exceed 
pleted. The Observer granted permission to publish com­lications. In reserves the right to 
350 words. The 
mentaries with the permission of exceptions, the comment on any can­
the editor-in-chie: or the per­author of the pre­Viewpoint editor may didate or issue it mission of the managing editor and viously printed 
shorten any letter regard­wishes throughout 
the Viewpoint editor. 
material must give the campaign period. 

legal consent. less of length ...' 
At any time, the edi-
I I I 
The Viewpoint depart­Exceptions to this tor-in-chief and thement ·reserves the right to procedure are Viewpoint editor may edit all commentaries 
those organizations of which The 
suspend this article. 

submitted to the Viewpoint depart­
Observer is a member, quotations 

ment. The Observer has no obliga­
used for commentaries and "Quote

tion to print commentaries submit­
of the day." Syndicated columns XIII !~: r:~! ~ri~il­ted. Commentaries will not be 
also are excluded from this proce­during normal busi­printed if they are libelous or 
dure. ness hours and must be prominent­unintelligible or irrelevant as ly displayed in the Viewpoint applied to interest of a particular 
The opinions expressed in 
I~
department of The Observer. 
issue on a local, national, or world 
the Viewpoint section are 

interest on a particular issue, its 
ot necessarily those of the he Viewpoint editor extension of existing issues on the editorial board. House editorials is responsible for Viewpoint pages, and/or it's role in appear in the Viewpoint section of editing all Inside 
XI~ 

fostering spirited and intelligent 
The Observer. Regular columnists, Columns. The Inside Column con­discussion. A disclaimer will appear those whose columns appear on a tains views expressed by the author with any letter deemed highly regular basis; guest columnists, and are those of the author and not 
graphic, profane or discriminatory, 
those whose columns do not appear necessarily those of The Observer. 
yet nonetheless relevant. The dis­
on a regular basis; letters to the The Inside Column is not to be used 
claimer will appear at the begin­
editor; poems, quotes and cartoons for self or activity promotion. ning of the letter and will alert 
are commentaries. Such status is 

readers to the serious nature of the Letters to the editor 
determined by the Viewpoint editor 

piece in question. may not exceed 350 
in all incidences except house edito­
XV

words. The Viewpoint rials. The House Editorial 
IV 
All commentaries submit­editor may shorten any letter
Guidelines and the Insta House 

ted to The Observer must regardless of length or deem it wor­
Guidelines are included in the

bear the signature of the thy of print in its entirety as anHouse Editorial Policy. 
author. 
Opinion commentary, though the 

Paid employees of The Ob­length of the Opinion commentary 
V 
Commentaries submitted as 
erver are not permitted to may not exceed 550 words. 
letters to the editor may not 
ave their commentaries ap­

exceed three in number from 
----------------------------' 
' 

TOBACCO POLICY 
In accordance with an administrative directive issued before last school year, all buildings on the Notre Dame campus are smoke-free in their entirety. This ban extends to the seating area of Notre Dame Stadium. Chewing-tobacco is not expressly included among the substances prohibited indoors. Ash cans are provided outside most buildings for the convenience of smok­ers. Your cooperation is appreciated. 

CAMPUS SECURITY 
For your protection Notre Dame em­ploys a staff of uniformed police officers who provide 24-hour foot and vehicular patrols on the cam­pus property. Additionally, eighteen emergency call boxes are spread across campus. To contact the Security Building (directly below on map) from any campus phone, dial x4444. From 8:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. the Safe Walk program provides a free campus escort service; call 634-BLUE. 
:r 

St. Mary's Lake 
Security .Bui1C!]Jl9t>····
' '+6::~;-;,.,J.'\>\;, ''.' / i 
.~> Rockne Memorial 

DINING HALLS 
Students who live in residence halls are automatically charged for 21 meals per week, regaJdess of how many of these meals are actually eaten. South Dining Hall (direct­ly above on map) and North Dining Hall feature identical menus and the same hours of operation, which vary during finals and vacation weeks but otherwise are: Breakfast. ........ 7:00 a.m. -9:00 a.m. Continental... ... 9:00a.m. -10:00a.m. Lunch ............ 11:00 a.m. -1:30 p.m. Dinner ............ .4:45 p.m. -6:45 p.m. ~:::;i;a 
COMPUTER-USER CLUSTERS ,_ To help complete homework Notre Dame features over 500 computers distributed among~· several locations. These clusters, which ~ support Macintosh and PC platforms, are networked to several laser printers at each location which output work at no charge. Clusters can be found in the following buildings: Architecture, Computer/Math, DeBartolo, Fitzpatrick, Hayes-Healy, Hesburgh Library, LaFor­tune, Nieuwland Science, O'Shaugh­nessy, Pasquerilla Center, and Security. 


STUDENT REGISTER 
For those of you who are unfamiliar with the 
above term (upperclassmen included), it is the official name for what is more routinely and infamously known on campus as the 
Dogbook. This thin, bound black-and-white 
volume contains the photograph and brief bio­graphical information each incoming freshman was requested to provide shortly after being admitted. Its reputation is for frequently being the sole basis for selecting one's date to dormi-, nrecnaun \N 
tory-sponsored theme dances (also known as ...,er uarne, 
"SYR"s, for which one is "set-up") and formals. ~~~~s fan 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE LAUNDRY SERVICE 
~ Notre Dame's sister school is located ~ Formerly available only to males and at directly across South Bend's major . ~ the campus laundry service is now north--south highway, U.S. 33/Busi­students for a fee. A contract for $92 ness 31 (directly behind this panel services can be purchased for $75.00 
on map). The schools offer an ex­ without the contract, transaction  
change program via which stu­ charged to your student account.  
dents from both institutions may  complete with your account number,  
take advantage of the opportunity  Bundled laundry is collected at your  
to study on the neighboring institu­ able for you to pick up at the Laundry  
tion's campus. Also, the schools  (directly below on map); the schedule of  
cosponsor the crew, downhill skiing,  is posted in your dorm. Other services  
golf, gymnastics, and sailing programs.  dry cleaning, tailoring/alterations, and  
Welcome and congratulations on  choosing Notre Dame!  

duction could be entirely comprehensive, this guide will frequent questions, highlight some things you may want to ~ you get your bearings on this rather large campus. Good luc~ 
. I 
St. Joseph's Lake 

'}: 
Heqtth S4'!ces 
Washington I'· Hall 


.. ··.... :; L~F~rtune .. ,.Student Center <:f5wley NieuwlandHayes-Healy 

St~
Hurley Riley l 



O'Sha~j 
Morris 
Post Offic~. ·. 

Inn ,;#?$~('?;, ­
Museum 

~«--<v­~0 Center for 
=::/.: ..i'.:.

Co•.ltlnuing 

DeBartoloEducation 
University · Notre-Club 
· ·~'.,. POST OFFICE 
Office 
(directly above on map), ~ which features a special mail ., slot for letters to be post­
marked "Notre Dame, IN." All mail not dropped in this slot will be postmarked "South Bend, IN." Be fore­warned: the usual long lines often prevent being helped at the counter in the 15 minutes 


Research: BRENDAN REGAN ·••·· ·j·
between back-to-back classes. 
Graphic Design: BRENDAN REGAN .• 
ALCOHOL POLICY PARIETALS RULES 
According to du Lac: Student Life Poli­As a feature of its in loco parentis policy1. cies and Procedures, "students are respon­enforces restrictions upon the dormitot11 sible for compliance with Indiana Criminal hours of guests of the opposite ge Law regarding alcohol consumption. The Uni­Beginning at 11:00 a.m. daily (except ht! versity will enter a private residence room for the 
football Saturdays, in which case it is 1Ol purpose of enforcing Indiana laws if drinking in such 
a.m.) and ending at midnight on Sund a room becomes public in any way." Public is defined 
through Thursday and 2:00 a.m. on Fridi as that which extends beyond the privacy of the 
and Saturday, students enjoy unlimited 11 room. It clarifies: "No alcoholic beverages may be 
tation. Violations of these rules are con carried in open containers in the corridors or any 
ered serious, and can result in suspens other public area of the residence halls such as 

dismissal of the offender. Male dorms an lounges or lobbies." So keep it in your room. tied on this map in blue text, female i 
·---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
answer some · . now, and help 
! 
f Hag!}ar" 
~~~· .. 
Radiation ResearCh 
Decio 
Stadium 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
A thorough opportunity to explore the wide range of campus orga­nizations occurs Sept. 7 from 7:0Q-10:00 p.m. in the Joyce Athletic &Convocation Center. Student representatives from the various academic, athletic, media, musical, and political clubs will be stationed at booths arranged for your pe­rusal to answer questions and register prospective members. 
Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center 
HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 
As you may have noticed by read­ing these panels, home foot­ball Saturdays are a slight departure from status quo in this area. Festivities and activi­ties abound all weekend. This year's home games are: Sep­tember 10 vs. Michigan; Sep­tember 24 vs. Purdue; Octo­ber 1 vs. Stanford; October15 vs. Brigham Young; October 29 vs. Navy; November 19 vs. Air Force. 
... 

FOOTBALL TICKETS $ 
All students are guaranteed the opportunity to £ 26\. purchase one season ticket apiece. The proce-~ ~~~-e dure is as follows: application cards will be in stu-~.~.. %
~~~,.. \ dent mailslots the week before tickets go on sale. I 1 ~ Bring this card with your student ID and cash or ~\ ~!~
1

check for $81.00 to the Joyce Athletic &Convo-.~\ \ tRt V~'a! cation Center. Be prepared to ":"ait in a lengthy line; \.1\ .\ 4Jt\fl many students camp out ovem1ght. Any person may ,\ .\ \'" 
submit up to four applications provided he or she . also furnishes a matching student ID and payment · , ' for each of the applications. For freshmen, season tickets will be available on Sept. 2from 2:0Q-7:00. 

·~~----....;;~·.····''! 
IDENTIFICATION CARD 
Your Student ID is your ticket to the privileges and im­munities granted to "Domers"; carry it with you at all times. Among the many in­stances it is required: eating at the dining halls, library services, registration, football 
. and basketball games. 

TIME ZONE 
Twice annually, when America ad­justs its clocks for Daylight Savings, Arizona, Hawaii, and regions of In­diana do not change; Notre Dame is located in such a region. South Bend keeps its clocks set to Eastern Standard Time year­round. Therefore, from spring through fall it is the same hour of the day here as in Chicago, where­as from fall through spring it is the same hour of the day here as in Detroit. 
-




NOTRE DAME 0 INDIANA 
TOBACCO POLICY. The smoking policy at Saint Mary's permits smoking in student rooms with doors and transits closed as agreed upon by roommates. Students may also smoke in the vending areas of the residence halls. Smoking is prohibited in all other public areas in the residence halls as well as in the library, sci­ence hall, Haggar College Center and the administrative areas in LeMans Hall and Madaleva Hall. 
SECURITY POLICE. The Saint Mary's security department provides 24-hour services to its students, faculty, and staff. In addition to vehicular and foot patrol, the officers also provide many other service~ t" College. Security offers an escort during the r. .)f darkness. For any student stranded off campus the security office also provides a service which will either send an officer or a cab to bring the student back to campus (students must reimburse security for cab fare). Call boxes are identifiable by blue emergency lights around the campus provide a directs line to security when students need assistance or help. To reach secu­rity call 284-5000, for emergencies dial 911 and for information dial 284-4000. 
DINING HALL. All resident students are allowed unlimited access to the dining hall from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 
p.m. Monday through Friday. On weekends food service provides a continental breakfast, available from 9:00 
a.m. to 10:30 a.m., brunch from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., grill and salad bar entrees from 12:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m., and dinner from 4:45p.m. to 6:00p.m. Special hours for football Saturdays will be posted in the dining hall. 
ALCOHOL POLICY. Saint Mary's complies with Indiana State law and, therefore, students under the age of 21 are not permitted to possess or consume alcohol on campus. Students over the age of 21 are the only stu­dents permitted to consume alcohol on campus. Social gatherings with alcohol are permitted in student rooms as long as all the guests present are 21 years of age or older, alcoholic beverages remain in the room, and the event does not infringe upon the rights of others. 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT. Want to become a member of a campus club or organization? Representatives from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame organizations will be available to answer questions and sign up new mem­bers at the College's Activities Night. Angela Athletic Facility will host the annual event. 
COMPUTER-USER CLUSTERS. Facing your first col­lege term paper? Want to send e-mail to your friends on another campus? Saint Mary's computer lab provides these services and more in each of its main labs and six computer clusters on campus. The main Macintosh lab and IBM-compatible lab in the basement of LeMans Hall is open 24-hours with lab assistance and laser printers available from 7:30 a.m. to midnight, with extended oper­ating hours during the latter half of the semester. 
Computers are also located in the writing center, base­ment, and mezzanine of the library, room 232 of Madeleva, basement of Regina North, and in the scienc hall. Every student will receive an e-mail account and password at registration which she may access from an computer on campus, with special computers in the writ­ing center being set aside specifically for e-mail. 
SHUTTLE. United Limo provides shuttle services between the campus of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame beginning August 30. The shuttle stops at various point 
on both campuses approximately every 15 minutes Monday through Friday during daytime hours and eve 30 minutes on evenings and weekends. The service is free during the day and costs 25 cents on evenings an weekends. 
MALE VISITATION POLICY. Male visitors to Saint Mary's must be escorted at all times in the residence halls. Visitation hours are from 10:00 a.m. to midnight Monday through Thursday and 10:00 a.m. to 2:00a.m. Friday and Saturday. Male guests are never permitted the College's tunnel system. 
ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY. This recreational facility provides courts for tennis, basketball, volleyball and racquetball, as well as a nautilus and track. The facility is open from 8:00 a.m. to 11 :00 p.m. Monday through Friday , from 9:00 a.m. to 11 :00 p.m. on Saturday, and from noon to 11:00 p.m. on Sunday. 
~---­
ACCE-NT 
Saturday, August 27, 1994 page 15 




Helping Hands 
The Notre Dame 'R.A.' is more than just a title on the door 
By MARY GOOD Accent Editor 
When you arrived on campus you probably thought that you were trading your mother, big brother and buddies in for roommates and study groups. Not so. Just around the corner, down the hall or maybe right next door you will find a surrogate support group right behind the sign that reads, "Resident Assistant." 
Your resident assistant, affectionately referred to as your "R.A.," is a senior who lives in your section and had committed himself or herself to being a counselor, friend and general resource for you and the other stu­dents in your dorm. 
"For me, being an · 
R.A. is a way to pay back my dorm for the three great years I have had in it and a way to gain another great year of experi­ence while I am at it," lilt Tyler Farmer of 

Elizabeth Reres, a Pasquerilla West resident assistant, faceted nature of
Morrissey Hall said. 
helps freshmen Courtney Hynes and Julie Brubaker move being a resident
"My sophomore 
year my R.A. was into their dorm rooms. someone I really \admired and I want to be that kind o~ Jlerson for ~ther people bere in the dor·m,'" Kristen Rossigno, a fifth year senior and returning resi­dent assistant in Pasquerilla East explained. This initial interest in influencing life in the dorm was followed by a careful application and screening process that included numerous inter­views and role-playing sessions. 
For Rossigno, the process began with an appli­cation distributed by Residence Life that required a personal essay and three written rec­ommendations from employers and professors. The next step was a series of ten interviews. 
Rossigno first had an interview with her. dorm rectress and then with the assistant rectress. She then interviewed individually with six differ­ent students that were acting resident assistants at the time after which she met with the entire hall staff. The final interview was with three acting resident assistants in which Rossigno was asked to do some role play to determine how she would handle certain situation ranging from roommate problems to intoxication to parietals violations. In the end, Rossigno was chosen as one of six out of approximately seventeen women who had applied for a resident assistant position. 
Farmer went through a similar interviewing process before being selected as one of nine out of approximately twenty applicants for resident assistant in Morrissey. After the positions were filled and room selections were complete, resi­dent assistants were strategically assigned to their sections, according to Farmer. 
"They tried to match the personality of the R.A. to the personality of the section," Farmer said. The freshman personality of each section is yet to be shaped which Farmer looks forward to as an exciting challenge. 
"The more time we [resident assistants] spend with the freshmen, the more we can help them learn about themselves and what we want Morrissey to be while we learn about ourselves as well," Farmer said. "The freshmen will help us shape what Notre Dame, or Morrissey in my case, will look like in the future." 
For many resident assistants, being on the hall staff is a good opportunity for meeting new peo­ple and building strong relationships. 
"Being an R.A. helps build leadership skills. It teaches you how to work together as a team with the hall staff and it is an opportunity for more interaction," Rossigno said. "It is a boost to get to know everyone." 
Another person that resident assistants build a special relationship with is their hall rector or rectress. 
"I have a great relationship with my rectress now, one you don't realize is possible when you see her just as an authority figure," Rossigno said. 
Even though Farmer was very active in hall council in previous years, he has also noticed a new intensity in his relationship with his rector since he has taken a position. 
Since resident assistants work together with rectors and rectresses to teach responsible liv­ing, there is a great deal of training involved. 
The resident assis­tants for the 1994-95 academic year returned to campus on August 19 to begin training. 
"The Morrissey Hall staff spent two days in the mellow, quiet, 
· serene atmosphere of Moreau Seminary during our training," Farmer said. 
"The nine R.A.s and our rector took turns leading conversations about the multi­
assistant. We talked about our roles as disciplinarian, friend and big brother. We also 
' talkecf anout'how we can be a figurative tnirror for students, to help them learn about how oth­ers see them." The Morrissey Hall staff also spent a consider­able amount of time going over "Life in the Manor," a student written document that out­lines the rules of Morrissey Hall. Farmer was a member of the three student committee that developed the book in 1993. "In training we shared a lot about ourselves, talked about goal setting and team building, and we did a lot of bonding," Rossigno said. Throughout the year, the Office of Residence Life schedules in-services once every month or two as part of their ongoing training, according to Rossigno. These sessions focus on a number of issues that both Residence Life and the resi­dent assistants feel are important such as male­female relationships, AIDS and grief. "Our orientation with Residence Life really put them on a down-to-earth level as people we can actually work with, not just those people way up in the Administration Building that get us in trouble," Rossigno said. Discipline is indeed not only the job of those up in the Administration Building. It begins with the resident assistants which is where friend­ships can get sticky. Although it seems backward, Farmer feels for­tunate that most of his friends have graduated or moved off campus, however he knows from experience that friendships will survive his job as disciplinarian. "An R.A. busted a group of us last year for parietals violation," Farmer explained. "At rrrst we were all upset but he explained that if he gave us a break he would not be doing his job. We all gained respect for his dedication to the dorm." "True friends will recognize that as an R.A. I have responsibilities that at times will come in conflict with their activities," Farmer said. "The disciplinary part of being an R.A. is not personal. Those that can separate this are true friends." Good friendships are also developed among members of the hall staffs in addition to among student who live in each section. "R.A.s develop strong relationships," Rossigno said. "We rely on each other for support and strength." Students will find that drawing some of this support and strength will prove very satisfying for all. So feel confident that when the door labeled, "Resident Assistant," opens, a friendly, helpful, supportive face will be there to greet you. 
Saint Mary's resident advisors serve as friends and role models 
By MARY GOOD Accent Editor 
At Saint Mary's College, rela­tionships between students and their resident advisors are great ways to fulfill the needs of both parties. While dorm residents are often looking for someone to give advice, friend­ship and answers to their gen­eral questions, resident advi­sors are looking to exercise their leadership skills and meet new people while they are at it. 
"At the end of my sophomore 

year I felt that I wanted and 
needed to be more involved 
with the students and the 
school as a whole and I thought 
being an R.A. would be a good 
opportunity to do so," returning 
resident advisor Elizabeth 
Kernan of LeMans Hall said. 
At the end of last year when 

many positions for campus in­
volvement began to open up, 
senior Deb Sheedy of Augusta 
Hall began looking for her 
niche. 
"I Vias wondering what would 

be the best way for me to spend 
my last year at Saint Mary's 
and I decided that being an 
" I am used to just being me, but now I am the R.A." 
-Deb Sheedy 

R.A. would encompass every­thing from meeting new people to getting involved in campus activities," Sheedy said. "I was on LeMans Hall council and had worked with a lot of R.A.s and I really respected them." 
These women both went through an in-depth screening process that began with a writ­ten application that asked why they were interested in becom­ing a resident advisor and what their qualifications were. They were required to submit three letters of recommendation, one from an acting resident advi­sor, one from a professor and one from another student. The next step was interviewing with resident advisors and role play. 
"They put you in different sit­uations to see how you would react and interact," Sheedy said. 
Out of approximately 70 ap­plicant, 45 were selected and returned to campus early to be­gin training. 
Throughout the training pro­cess, the resident advisors woke up early and attended meetings all day on issues as involved as community devel­opment and as simple and nec­essary as fire safety, according to Sheedy. There was even a session on plumbing. Sheedy felt that the highlight of the week was an overnight camp­ing trip that the hall staff took to Camp Millhouse that turned out to be a real bonding experi­ence for those involved. 
For Kernan who is a second­year resident advisor, the train­· ing was helpful but she also has the benefit of a year of first­hand experience to help her out. "Now I know what to expect 
and I know how to work my schedule around the job," Kernan said. "Last year I never 
expected so many people to knock on my door. 
Resident advisors answer their doors at all hours to help students who need something fixed in their room, need advice about which classes to register for, are having roommate prob­lems, need to know how to get somewhere or are having per­sonal crises. 
"Being a resident advisor is a lot more responsibility than people think," Kernan said. 
"As an R.A. you have the re­sponsibility to watch and see if people are breaking the rules and that includes your friends too," Sheedy said. "I am used to just being me, but now I am 
TheR.A." 
Throughout the course of each semester, Saint Mary's resident advisors are required to plan five programs for their section, one a multi-cultural event, another educational, an­other an athletic activity, a so­cial activity and a religious event, according to Kernan. The purpose of this is to help build community within each section. 
To help carry the load and serve as a support group for the resident advisors are the residence hall directors and the Office of Residence Life. 
"My relationship with Shea Powell who is the Residence Hall Director of McCandless where I worked last year, is great," Kernan explained. "She is young, was once an R.A. her­self and is really supportive." 
Regina Hall is the sister dorm to Augusta. Consequently they share a residence hall director, Colette Shaw, according to Sheedy. 
The expectation for the Augusta resident advisors is that they would be self direct­ed, but it is nice for them to know that Shaw is available when they need her, Sheedy said. 
Living in a single may get lonely at times, according to Kernan, but it comes in handy at test time and the students in the section make up for the lack of a roommate. 
"By being an R.A. I was al­ways one of the first people no­tified about upcoming events and activities, so I really be­came aware of what was going on on the Saint Mary's cam­pus," Kernan said. 
"Being an R.A. has really helped me meet a lot of people and find out more about my school," Kernan added. 
Although some students re­gard resident advisors solely as disciplinarians, most rmd them to also be friends and coun­selors. 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Saturday, August 27, 1994 
Attention Students! 

ADD WARMTH, COLOR & SOFTNESS TO ANY DRAB ROOM!
you need! 
•No-Fee Checkin&~r and Savin~~rs Accounts •Loans 
•Computer Bankin&~r with NBD E:x;press •ATMs 
•Extended Bankin&~r Hour§ 
Visit NBD Bank located ~ few blocks from the Notre Dame campus. 

NBDBank 
G)
18083 SR 23 North -­
UNDER
Member FDIC 273-1280 



• fROSH -fORECAST 
A look at how the freshman have farec this far during fall drills. 
Kurt Belisle (LB, 6-3, 220) 
A little more speed than expected and solid play at linebacker at least postponed a move to the defensive line. 
Corey Bennett (LB, 6-2, 225) Great potential, but needs a little tinker­ing before he can be a big contributor. 
Leon Blunt (WR, 5-10, 185) 
An explosive and versatile athlete, could even be an emergency fill-in at quarter­back. 
Ivory Covington (DB, 5-11, 160) 
Talented pass defender. but there prob­ably won't be room this year in the sec­ondary. 
Jarvis Edison (DB, 6-5, 210) 
His lanky look reminds some of Irish All­American Bobby Taylor. If only he can play that way. 
Ty Goode (WR, 6-1, 173) 
With a depleted receiver corps, Goode was expected to challenge for playing time. So far, he hasn't. 
Malcom Johnson (WR, 6-5, 193) 
Just turned 17 years old today, but has shown some impressive skills in presea­son. 
Jeff Kramer (LB, 6-3, 21 5) Arguably most impressive freshman in early workouts. 
John Mclaughlin (DB, 6-4, 225) Moved around in preseason, playing outside linebacker, tight end and split end. 
Paul Mickelbart (OL, 6-4, 265) Looked solid so far, but will probably watch the season from the sidelines. 
Bill Mitoulas (LB, 6-0, 210) 
All attitude. Played on a primitive high school defense in Canada, but full of ambi­tion to 'make the trans~ion to Notre Dame's complex scheme. 
Gus Ornstein (QB, 6-5, 210) Challenging Tom Krug for the backup quarterback spot, but still getting feet wet. 
Luke Petltgout {TE, 6-7, 260) 
Not exactly the softest hands in the world, Petitgout will likely move to offen­sive tackle. 
Corey Redder (LB, 6-2, 215) Full of potential, but not full of playing time. At least for now. 
Allen Rossum (DB, 5-9, 175) 
Rhymes with 'awesome.' We'll see. 
Jon Spickelmler (OL, 6-4, 250) 
Looks like a lineman but still has a long 
way to go, also been working as No. 2 long 
snapper. 
Clement Stokes (TB, 6-0, 200) 
Brother of Irish cornerback Sim Stokes 
probably won't seem much time this year 
because of a deep backfield. 
Larry Wrlght(ATH, 5-11, 190) 
Played free salley, strong safety and 
tailback, looked strong running and catch­
ing the ball. 
-JASON KELLY 

Mitoulas, among others, have been pleasant surprises. 

Frosh 
Malcom Johnson, at 17 the baby of the bunch, has alsocontinued from page 24 
been steady at wide receiver. "He's the only guy who will go 
a versatile athlete who took 
some emergency snaps at through Notre Dame, graduate and not be able to get a drink,"
quarterback, is the only fresh­Holtz joked. 
man within reach of significant But freshmen development isplaying time. 
"With the low numbers and no laughing matter to Holtz. Though many likely won't
the high injury rate, this would play important roles this sea­
have been a year for them to play," Holtz said. "I just don't son, he needs them to be ready see that right now. It may when it's their turn. 
"Don't be an impostor. Don'tchange as the season goes on." 
impersonate a football player,"Playing time may be absent, Holtz advised his young men.
but potential isn't. 
"With the limited number ofEdison and Goode have scholarships, there's nobodyproven to be worthy of their here who won't get an opportu­
honors. And quarterback Gus nity to play." Ornstein and linebacker Bill Eventually. 
JNJ~T~JE DAMJE GOJLtCOUJR§JE
o """""·'" ,;.;..,,,.,"''· • • • ···.~·N'< 
STUDENT FALL PASSES AVAILABLE NOW $50 

GOOD THROUGH NOV. 15, 1994 
(NOl'Jim JO)~lE GOlLWI §JHIOJP) 
FINE QUALITY SPORTSWEAR GOLF EQUIPMENT TEE TIMES 631-6425 
Page 
continued from page 24 
But right now soc­cer is not the only concern for Page. Getting accus­tomed to 


life on Alan Page campus and living away from home has not been easy. "It's been a difficult adjust­ment, moving from home and having to play soccer right away," she said. "But it's a little different 
because I have a lot of players around to help me adjust. " 
Cammie, who also consid­ered Minnesota, Clemson, and the University of Washington, was convinced to attend Notre Dame after her recruiting visit. 
"It was like one big family," she said. 
Her father, however, was not a major factor in her deci­sion. 
"He's happy that I'm here," she said, "but I don't think he would have been angry or dis­appointed if I went anywhere else." 
Alan Page will be on cam­pus for the season opener next Saturday against Rutgers. 
~---~ -----~----~---------­
Saturday, August 27, 1994 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
AWfeDesign" Keyboard and mouse. AppleDesign" Keyboard and mouse. 
With Apples special low student pricing, you can get aterrific deal on Macintosh; Macintosh~-the worlds fastest Mac~ And because Macintosh is still the easiest personal com­the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the afford­puter, you won't have to dig through complex manuals. Plus, with low student pricing, aMac able Macintosh Performa; which comes complete with lots of powerful software to help is as easy to afford as it is to use. All of which makes it the ideal time to Ap 1 .~ get you through college. You can also choose the portable Apple" PowerBook" or the Power discover the power all college students need. The power to be your bese 
p1e . 



Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 
©1994AfrJie Compuler. Inc. AU rights merved. Apple. the A/JfJ/e logo, Macintosh, Madntosh f}uadra, Per[orma, PvwerBook and ''11Jt pou;er to beyour best" are registered trademmis ofApple Computer; Inc. AppleDesign, Mac and Pvwer Macintosh are trademarks ofA/JPk CompuJer. /nc_ 
AYRES INTRODUCES 
ELIZABETH ARDEN SPA SKINCARE 
Healthy living, healthy looking skin. Elizabeth Arden's Spa 
Skincare brings it right to you, with vitamins and minerals to 
give you clean, fresh and glowing skin every day. 
Come and discover it today. Check out the new spa skincare 
learning center at our counter. It has all the answers to put your 
skin on track and will customize a daily program just for you. 

SPA SKINCARE WITH VITAMINS & MINERALS 
•Daily 
Soap, Basic or Hardworking, 2 Soaps plus Dish, 14.50 

•Daily 
Moisture Drink SPF 15 Lotion 1.7-oz., 10.50 •Clear Solution Toner 6.7-oz., 9.50 •Daily Milky Cleanser 5-oz., 14.50 •Daily Gel Cleanser 5-oz_, 14.50 •Comeback Cream 1.7-oz., 27.50 

•Clear 
The Way Mask 4.4-oz., 14.50 



BONUS SHOWER CADDY 
Free shower 
caddy with any 
17.50Spa 
Skincare 
purchase. 
One to a 
customer, 
please. 

Offer ends 
September 3. 
. ).._ 
CALL TOLL-FREE 24 HOURS DAY 1-800·528-2345 
------------------------~--------------­
page 18 
Saturday, August 27, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS 
• THE PLACES OF NOTRE DAME SPORTS 
The Rock, Joyce ACC are Domer favorites 
By the time you've read this you've probably already heard the word "tradition" fifty times since arriving at Notre Dame. Nowhere is Fighting Irish tradi­tion more storied than in the university's athletic facilities. But knowing the legend of the four horseman well enough to recite backwards won't do you any good if you're tromping across campus to find the women's soccer match, a spot to shoot late night hoops. 
Some practical information about various campus athletic facilities: 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
The student section is located in the northwest section of the stadium, with freshmen in the section nearest the endzone thanks to their last selection slot among the student body. Plans for expansion will allow twenty thousand more people to enjoy Notre Dame Saturdays in the stadium by the 1996 sea­son. 
JOYCE ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER The north dome of the 2 7­year-old "JACC" is home to the Irish men's and women's bas­ketball squads, as well as the Monogram Club and Notre Dame's trophy collection. The south dome serves as the hock­ey rink with a capacity of 4,000. It also has a weight room open to students and an indoor track which is often transformed into volleyball and basketball courts. Rolfs Aquatic Center is located just behind the JACC. 
LOFTUS SPORTS COM­
PLEX 
Arguably the most impressive of the university's newest ath­letic facilities, Loftus is open to students by primarily used by varsity athletes. Loftus holds the 8,000-square foot Haggar Fitness Complex as well as Meyo field, a full-size Astro Turf football field, and the one­fifth mile Meyo Track. 
THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
This building on the end of 
South Quad offers the majority 
of fitness opportunities for stu­
dents and faculty. The facilities 
included in "the Rock" include 
a swimming pool, basketball 
courts, racquetball courts, a education classes. of land serve as playing fields weight room, and dance and STEPAN FIELDS for many of Notre Dame's in-aerobic rooms. Marking the northeast corner terhall sports as well as fre­
The Rock is also home to of campus behind the domed quent pick-up games of touch many of the freshman physical Stepan Center, these large plots football and soccer. 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS!!! 
DO YOU WANT TO IMPRESS YOUR FRIENDS AND FAMILY BY TELLING THEM YOU VOLUNTEER IN THE ADMISSIONS OFFICE AT NOTRE DAME? HERE'S YOUR CHANCE TO HAVE FUN AND ASSIST ADMISSIONSATTHESAME TIMR TillSVOLUNTEERPRO­GRAM IS RESPONSIBLE FOR SEVERAL MAJOR RECRUITMENT PROJECTS, AND WE NEED STUDENT VOLUNTEERS FOR THE UPCOMING YEAR. IF THIS SOUNDS INTERESTING TO YOU, COME TO OUR OPEN HOUSE TO LEARN MORE m OPEN HOUSE: TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994 

7:30PM ROOM 123 EARTH SCIENCE 
(BROWNSON COURTYARD) 
IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS OR CANNOT MAKE THE MEETING, CALL ANNE PETERSON AT 1-7403 


CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
.... 
HEY FIRST YEAR STUDENTS AND TRANSFERS! WELCOME TO THE CONSTRUCTION PROJECT 
We Need Your Help 
As you walk around campus, ~specially near the football stadium, you might notice construction in process. During the past few decades, the number of buildings constructed on campus has increased dramatically. Now, there are plans for expanding the football stadium and plans for building a few more residence halls. 
It might ~eem th~t the University ofNotre Dame is like one big construction proJect. 
Notre Dame is under construction. But, the most important and long lasting construction which is taking place is not with bricks and mortar, as important as buildings and facilities are. There is a "construction process" ofsorts which Notre Dame was meant to be a part ofsince it was founded by the Holy Cross priests and brothers in 1842. It is a construction process that has been going on since Jesus walked this earth. The blue-print for this construction process is, "Love one another as I have loved you." Its about building a world which promotes the dignity of each human being. But, in order for this to take place, we need to keep building a Notre Dame based on the love lived by Jesus. 
A large amount of construction has taken place. We can be thankful that we, in 1994, are not building this Notre Dame from scratch. There is the wisdom and generosity of many people tied 
up in this place, people who have spent their lives trying to serve 
others. There is a foundation on which to build. 
There is a large amount of construction that is taking place. There 
are people who are here now, students, teachers, rectors and others who pray together, in their halls or in the Basilica. There are groups ofstudents who reflect together, in small groups, on what 
God is calling them to in "Communities N.D." all over campus. There are people who have chosen to be with those who suffer in 
order to serve them and learn from them at the Center for the 
Homeless and other places. There are people who gather together 
to support and challenge each other in matters of faith through 
retreats like the Notre Dame Encounter and weekly meetings in 
the Stanford-Keenan Chapel. There are people who have chosen 
to love each other and to be honest with each other. There are 
people who help us see that the world is bigger than Notre Dame and that Notre Dame is called to be in that world, serving its people. 
A large amount of construction needs to take place. Notre Dame is not a finished product. The construction process will continue, God willing. ' ' -'-"~' --·-~~ "~ ··~•.-"~ ~..,,J;In 
We need you all. You do not have to lay bricks or pour cement (unless you really really want to). You do not even have to be the smartest person in the world. You do not have to be great looking. You do not have to be perfect, whatever that is. Come as your are. 
Ultimately, this construction project is in the hands ofGod. 
We do not know exactly what it will look like when it's finished, but we believe that it will be something very good. 
Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 
P.S.-All are welcome to stop in at the Campus Ministry Office at 
103 Hesburgh Library or at Badin Hall to talk or just to grab someM &Ms. 
TWENTY-SECOND SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. August 27  5:00p.m.  Rev. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C.  
Sun. August 28  10:00 a.m.  Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C.  


~~-------­
page 19 The Observer • SPORTS Saturday, August 27, 1994 
• THE PEOPlE Of NOTRE DAME SPORTS 
Rosenthal, Beauchamp are leaders of the club 
The student athletes are not the only people involved with sports on the campus at the University of Notre Dame. Behind the scenes stand the men and women who organize events, control television con­tracts, and even run interhall sports. 
Here's a look at some of the people that keep Notre Dame athletics running smoothly. 
Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C.-Executive Vice President: A member of the NCAA's Olympic Sports Liaison Committee, Beauchamp has been a constant push for re­form in intercollegiate athlet­ics. 
He oversees every sports de­cision made at the University of Notre Dame, and he handles the press when the university deals with the hiring and firing of coaches. 
Beauchamp has been a part of the Notre Dame family since 1977. 
Dick Rosenthal-Athletic 
Director: After working for 25 
years as a very successful 
banker, Rosenthal came to 
Notre Dame in 1987 with the 
intentions of making the school 
competitive on a national level 
in all sports. 
Since taking over as athletic director, Rosenthal has seen drastic improvements in the ealiber of play of many Irish Olympic sport teams. For in­stance. the baseball team has competed in the NCAA tour­nament in each of the last three years. the women's bas­ketball team has made the NCAA tournament in two of its last three seasons, and the men's tennis team was runner­up for the national cham­pionship in 1992. 
In addition, Rosenthal has 
been instrumental in bringing 
the national spotlight upon the 
Golden Dome. He consum­
mated the $35 million deal to 
give NBC the rights to televise 
every Irish home football game. 
He recently showcased Notre 
Dame as the host of the 1994 
Division I men's tennis champi­
onships. 
Despite all the positive hype 
that he attempts to place on 
the university's shoulders, 
sometimes Rosenthal's deci­
sions do not go over so well. 
For example. his motion to 
cancel the wrestling program 
in 1992 has been seen as very 
controversial. But that is to be 
expected when you are in 
charge of one of the nation's 
most highly touted athletic pro­
grams. 
Missy Conboy-Associate 
Athletic Director: Probably 
one of the most important po­
sitions with the Irish staff, 
Conboy plays the role of legal 
liaison to the NCAA. She is a 
member of the executive com­
mittee of the National 
Association of Athletic 
Compliance Coordinators and 
has recently joined the NCAA's 
Interpretation Committee. 
Conboy was a 1982 graduate 
of Notre Dame and has worked 
with the university since 1987. 



Fencing's DeCicco is the dean of Irish coaches 
Here's a little trivia for you. 
Can you name the two Irish coaches who have won national championships in the past six years? 
Well. okay, Lou Holtz is the easy one. But who would have 
guessed that the other would be M i k e DeCicco, Notre Dame's fencing coach, who led his team 

to a national Mike DeCicco champi­onship this past spring. 
The dean of Notre Dame coaches. DeCicco holds a career winning percentage of nearly .950 since taking the reins in 1962. He will enter his 33rd season this year. 
Besides last year's triumph as Irish head coach, DeCicco has captured national champi­onships in 1977, 1978, and 1986, and has produced over 30 All-Americans. 
Although she has only been at Notre Dame for seven seasons, Moffet McGraw has established a reputation for being one of the nation's most respected women's basketball coaches. 
She will enter her eighth sea­son as head coach after leading the Irish to two NCAA berths in the past three years. 
In her seven seasons. McGraw has had only one sea­son where her team did not post a .500 record. 
"This is someplace where I think we can have everything," McGraw says. "We have been ranked in the top 20. I think we can go to the Final Four. I think we can be national cham­pions. And that's my goal." 
A national championship is every coach's goal, and men's tennis coach Bob Bayliss is no different. In 1992, he led his team to a second place finish in the nation, succeeding in plac­ing Notre Dame on the map of tennis greatness. 
Bayliss joined the Irish coach­ing staff in 1988, and has con­sistently raised his winning per­centage over the past six years. 
Largely becuase of Bayliss, Notre Dame has become a gen­uine contender for the national championship for some time to come. This past year, Notre Dame once again proved its highly regarded tennis reputa­tion by hosting the Division I Championships. 
The latest addition to the 
Irish coaching family is Paul Mainieri. Hewill replace Pat Murphy as head baseball coach. He has been head coach at the Air Force Academy pre­vious to his move to Notre Dame. 
TICKET OUTLETS: South Bend/Mishawaka: Audio Serv1ces Co .. Blessing Music. Tracks. Mad1son Oyster Bar. Ma)erek's·Readerll' Wo~d (U.P. Mall, downtown, Town & Country) • Elkhart: Mettlod Music • LaPorte. Majerek's·Readers' World• Mochioan City· Ma1erek's·Reader1>' Wortd • Benton Harbor: N1ghtw1nds • Niles. Materek's·Readm' World • St. Joseph County Parks. St. Patrick's, Bendix Woods 
R E S E R V E OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 
.... 
.. 

Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army ROTC even pay a flat rate for textbooks and sup­awards scholarships to hundreds of talented plies. You can also receive an allowance of students. If you qualify, these merit­
up to $1000 each school year the 
based scholarships can help you pay scholarship is in effect. Find out today if tuition and educational fees. They you qualify. 
ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE 
COURSE YOU CAN TAHE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
• 

·~~-----~---­
Saturday, August, 27, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 20 
PowIus' elbow injury is nothing new 





18157 S.R. 23 
.--oneMed~m-, 
loneTargeoneToppingl r "Two M'ediu~ che5e,
I Two Topping Pizza I IPizza ana 2-Liter of PepsiI I Pizzas and 2-Uter of Pepsi I 
!$699! !$899!! $999! 
1 Any second large only $6. 1 1 ~dditional toppings $!. 19 each. 1 Valid on Carry-out or Delivery. ....-...._ Val1d on Carry-out or Delivery. ....-...._ I Expires 9/10/94 ~i_mt I I Expires 9/10/94 ~i_mt I 
L.-------~..J L.-------~..J 
-_,t 

Tendonitis will force soph QB to miss today's scrimmage 
Observer Staff Report audience this week, noting that Powlus had only thrown twice 
Notre Dame quarterback Ron in the last ten days because of Powlus-he of the twice broken the injury. collarbone and dozens of But a team of National rumored ailments-is injured. Football League physicians 
For real, this time. examined Powlus on Thursday and proclaimed him able to 
He has tendonitis in his play this season. elbow, serious enough to side­line the sophomore for today's His high school coach, George scrimmage, the fmal one before Curry, said Powlus played next week's season opener through similar problems dur­against Northwestern. ing his prep career. 
And maybe all season. "He's throwing a little differ­At least that's what head ently," Holtz said. "Coach Curry coach Lou Holtz told a luncheon said this is not abnormal for 
Welcome Students! 
Baptist Student Union 



JOIN US! 
Bible Study -Fellowship -Fun 
See us at Activities Night September 6 at 7:00p.m. in the JACC 

We come Bac 
him. He always fights through it. He thinks that Ron will be 
OK." 
Reassuring words for Irish fans who have waited more than a year for the debut of the phenom, who missed his entire freshman season because of a broken collarbone. 
Sophomore Tom Krug, fresh­man Gus Ornstein and possibly freshman Leon Blunt-listed as 
Classifieds will begin running Tuesday, August 30, 1994. 
a wide receiver-are the under­studies. 
Krug would likely get the first chance to start in Powlus' absence, though Holtz expressed displeasure about the backup quarterbacks, hint­ing that nobody had solidified the situation. 
One thing is certain: Next week against Northwestern, Notre Dame will start a quar­terback who has never played a college game. 
English as a Second language 
INl'ENSJVI:_;!~·WEEK PROGRAM 
at Indiana University South Bend 
• 
Improve active use of written and spoken English 

• 
Understand verbal and non-verbal differences in communication between cultures 

• 
Develop and improve listening, speaking, reading and writing skills 

• 
Receive individualized attention 


Oct. 3-Dec. 9; Jan. 9-May 12 9 a.m.-1 p.n1. Monday through Friday 
IUSB Continuing Education 
1700 Mishawaka Avenue 
Call 237-4261 

Saturday, August 27, 1994 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
-

-Best in Michiana Now Contest '94 
NOW HIRING 
Delivery & Inside Personnel 
•Flexible 
Schedule 

•Top 
Pay 

•I
0-40 hr. schedules available 

•l/2 
price pizza •EOE 





-
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Saturday, August 27, 1994
-
• SAINT MARY's 
Belles in early stage of fall drills 
Transfer of Prosser key for volleyball 
By JENNIFER LEWIS Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
It's the beginning of another encouraging season for the Saint Mary's soccer and volley­ball teams. 
Today is officially the third day of tryouts. Both teams are young this year and are hoping for new talent, with volleyball coach Julie Schroeder-Biek, and soccer coach Larry Patter­son viewing a number of per­
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
RecSports will be sponsor­ing a Biathalon on Saturday, September 3 at 10:30 p.m. It will consist of a 1/2 mile swim plus a 2 mile run. The event takes place at St. Joe Beach. Register in advance at RecSports. There will be individual or team competi­tion in both varsity and non­varsity divisions. No fee.Call RecSports 1-6100. 
The information meeting for a Scuba Diving course will be Wednesday, September 7 at 6:30 p.m. in Rockne Rm 218. There will be seven classrooms and pool sessions beginning Sept. 11. Completetion of course results in YMCA certification. Info call RecSports. 
Informational Hockey Meeting Thursday Sept­ember 1 at 4p.m. in Loftus, Room 114. 
spective starters. 
There are fifteen freshman and one junior transfer student, Kelly Prosser, trying out for twelve positions on the Belles volleyball team which returned only one starter from last year. 
Prosser previously played for South Western College. She decided to come to Saint Mary's after scrimmaging against the Belle's last year and has worked volleyball camps this summer with Schroeder-Biek. 
"Prosser is very skilled," Schroeder-Biek said. "She will help our program a great deal." 
The practices consist of skill testing, conditioning, agility runs, and basic volleyball drills. "I thought the practice would be more difficult, but it was a fun time," freshman Melissa Lange said. 
"Practice is tough enough so that you can't slack off," fresh­man Meg Winkler said. 
The soccer team is struggling through hour and a half double sessions. 
Last year the Belles soccer team consisted of eighteen women. While no one was cut, many women drop out during the tryout process. Currently there are nine freshman trying out this week and no transfer students. There are only two seniors on the squad. 
"We are going to try and put the best team on the field that we can," Patterson said. 
~.· <~· -~·;,., !!'<·-;~,-.,.-....,.,.; ~·~·
·~ 
•..,.  
'  ...  '  ~  ) .,.,  4  
RECREATIONAL SPORTS  

UNIVERSITY OF NOfRE DAME 
INTRAMURALS 
CLUB SPORTS CHALLENGE U FITNESS RECREATION SERVICES 
LOCATED IN THE JACC 
1ST FLOOR 
Now Open! 
3/10 MILE NORTH OF STATE LINE ON US-31 NILES, MICHIGAN 

40 STATION DRIVING RANGE WITH TARGET GREENS,SAND TRAPS, BALL DISPENSING MACHINE & CLUB CLEANERS. 
7 A.B.C. BATTING CAGES 
MINIATURE GOLF WITH .... WATER FALLS, 
STREAMS & ISLAND GREEN. HANDICAP ACCESSABLE 
ARCADE BUILDING PRO SHOP SNACK BAR 
Buy one bucket of Range Balls-get one FREE! Buy one Game Minature Golf-get one FREE! 
The Observer 
is looking for eager freshman to work for the SPORTS DEPARTMENT. Writing, editing and reporting positions are available. 
There will be a meeting for those interested on Monday and Tuesday nights at 6:30 in The Observer office, 3rd floor LaFortune 
Contact George Dohrmann at the sports desk {1-4543) or at home (289-8830) for more information. 
University of Notre Dame INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 213 Main Building 
Invites you to Attend A General Information Session 
Saturday, August 27, 1994 DeBartolo Classroom Building Rooms 101, 102, 155 4:00p.m. 
Immediately following the general information session, individual ses­sions for each program will be held in the following rooms: 
Program Angers, France 
Dublin, Ireland 
Fremantle, Australia lnnsbruck, Austria Jerusalem 
London -Ans & Leuers London -Engineering Maynoorh, Ireland 
(Saint Mary's College) Mexico Ciry, Mexico Nagoya, Japan Rome, lraly 
(Saint Mary's College) Samiago, Chile Toledo, Spain 

Coordinator  Room  
Prof. Paul McDoweU  126  
Dr. Isabel Charles  138  
Dr. Sonia Gernes  155  
Prof. Marie-Antioneue Kremer  129  
Ms. Meredith Lowe '96  143  
('94 Alumna ofProgram)  
Dr. Anastasia Gutting  102  
Dr. John Lucey  119  
Ms Shari Overdorf  140  
Pro( Angela Borelli  125  
Prof. Yuko Nakahama  118  
Dr. Peter Checca  136  
Dr. Claudia Kselman  117  
Dr. Carlos Jerez-Farran  131  

Fonner student participants will also be on hand to discuss their experiences, offer comments, and answer questions. 






Aid. 
The Universi~ Prow.,am From Standard Federal Bank 
Get ano-annual-fee VISA" Classic Card and alow-cost Regular Checking Account including no per-check fees (and we even buy back your old checks*) with the University Program from Standard Federal. 
Use this financial aid to buy books, supplies, trips home and other essentials. Then obtain aPersonal identification Number (PIN) for your University Program VISA Card. It will help you access your account, without transaction 
Helping You Along The Way." 
Standard Federal Bank Savings/Rnancial Services 


t\1994 Standanl ­ Bank  
1404 E Ireland in front o£ Scottsdale Mall 2191291-Mlll  17330 State Rd 23 at Douglas Rd. 219/277-0300  52710 US 31 Nonh across £rom Nonh Village Mall 219/ln-3922  216 W Washington 2191134-7171  

fees, through more than 200 Standard Federal Cash Machine ATMs and Standard Federal's TeleBanking services. You can also use your card at thousands of CIRRUS~ NetworkOn~ MoneyMover' and Magicline•AIM machines.' 
Call or visit Standard Federal Bank today for more information about how you can enjoy the financial aid of the Univcrsity Program. 
•Ask lor dmil. '"""'
5DO"'"". VISA ash oh= 
Hoo"'"'·-5. modest"'"" ..m"""""""'"""i*'td 
a an AJll tba 5 not ooml and opm1<d b)· liandald Ftdml 


.. ~·--~· -·­
Saturday, August 27, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
-
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 

AT lA')T, SOME. CLARIT~! Ec'JER'I
0\-1 GOOIJ, A TRUE OR 
SEt{\1:1'\,Ct:: \'S E\"ffi~R P\JR£.,
f:"I\LSE TEST.' 
SWEIT TR\l\\-\ GR. A 'JILE., 
Col>\"lt.\A.~I\13LE. L\E! 0~\:: GR TI-lE GTI-lER! Ncm-\IKG 
COPS. Tf..PE OOESN'\" WJRK
1-\MM.... I \XNT 1-lt>..'/E to.. ~X
IN TI-llS 
100 W£LL. GlbSS. L
OR Pll'l'S. I GU~'SS I'Ll
BJ)( 't-111\\ 
J\.lSi '5\IC.K ~'{ ~\JGS 01'{ 
1-\0?£ I CAN G'cJ 1-\1\-1\
P\I,I.'S. 
NO\EPJ:X)I( PAP£R. 
Bf>..C.K TOG81--I'i:OR . 
I 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Mother of Hephaestus 1 Longtime first 33 Difficulties 
name in the Senate 36 Sweetie pie 6 F.D.R. had three 37 Salad bar 9 Tone-up center offerings 12 Single-named 41 1972 sci-fi TV nightclub star series 13 See ?-Down 42 Some famous 14 Sidetrack last words 15 Salad bar 43 Get-up-and-go offerings 44 Apple 18 "Exodus" hero purchases 19 Exam answer 46 Common 20 Put into words Market money 21 Covenant 48 Bridge unit 23 Salad bar 51 Salad bar offerings offerings 1 27 Billy Crystal. at 55 Race track times feature 1 29 9000, in "2001" 56 Race track 30 River transport feature 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

\ 
57 Certain bond, informally 
59 James Whitcomb Riley's"-1 Went Mad" 
60 Salad bar 
offerings 64 "Here comes trouble!" 
65 Flatten by pounding 66 Constellation next to Taurus 67 Hoodlum's heater 68 Punish publicly 69 "The Prince of Tides" co-star 
DOWN 1 Tight situation 2 Aries 3 Salad bar offerings 4 Cortes quest 5 Blanc, for one 6 Salad bar offerings 
24 Bit of 39 Tommy gun? 
7 With 13-Across, 
mudslinging 40 Tropical starch 
daily 
25 Roger or 45 Bravado
8 Young salmon 
Jessica Rabbit 
47 Roadway
9 Salad bar 
26 Has control 
maneuver
offerings 
1o Groaner over 49 Site of many 
28Viewfrom 
deals
11 Metric unit 
Ashtabula 
50 Little: Ger. 
13 Moolah 32 Tidbit for the 
52 Zip
14 "Dynasty" formicivorous actress 34 Literary 
~ 
1\\E Wf..-i iOO'Rf 
GO\~G, MMBE 
'{<YJ'\) PR'C..FER 
A. 5\,.._PLER. 
53 Lay dormant 54---cone 58 PC directory 
feature 60 Dog with a 
wrinkly face 61 "Gotcha!" 62 Pro choice? 63--Magnon 

16 Tick off pseudonym 
Get answers to any three clues 
17 SoI e fall ower of 35 Tallow source 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
song 37 Type of roast 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
22 Driving needs 38 Not in the area 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


Attention Freshmen! 
The Observer 
is looking for people to assist with the daily production of the paper. If you have experience with desktop publishing (or even if you don't) and are interested, please call Jackie Moser at 1-5303 or 4-1884. 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 
0Enclosed is $60 for one academic year 
is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 
DEnclosed is $35 for one semester Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­
Name ________________________ _ 
nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Address_____________________ 
.. 
-

Make checks payable to: 
-

SPORTS 
page 24 Saturday, August 27, 1994 
• JocK StRIP 
You can root at Notre Dame if you... 
D
uLac, that being the official hand­book of Notre Dame students, will offer numerous helpful hints for freshman as they begin their experiences under
.. Georgethe dome. 
Dohrmann
It does offer such 
Sports Editor
insights as the prohi­bition against carry­ing stun guns or a complete descrip­tion of the Honor Code, (huh). 
But what it can't tell you is the intri­cacies of being a Notre Dame sports fan. Here is an abbreviated version. (A complete list can be purchased in The Bookstore for the tidy sum of $53. 79.) 
Be a Poor Winner . .. Irish fans have demonstrated numerous times over the course of history a fine attitude towards losing. If, say, a football game is lost, most students show good cop­ing skills. Player bashing is voiced only in private, post-game tailgaters run short, and studying becomes top prior­ity on Saturday night. 
But a football win seems to follow a different trend. Take, for example, a typical conversation between a Notre Dame and a Michigan fan after last year's Irish upset in Ann Arbor. 
Michigan student: "Ya, you guys just out-played us." 
Notre Dame student: "No, we didn't out-play you, we killed you! Gary Moeller is a loser, Tyrone Wheatley sucks. And your school is second rate. I'm laughing right, now. But not just at you, but your whole stupid school, your stupid state and that sorry attempt at a football team you field." 
Punches are soon thrown, some­times sirens follow, and an occasional arrest report is filled out. Gracious winners all the way to the cell. 

Laugh at the heirachy . .. The big wigs that run the athletic department must be looked in a certain light. You have to love them for their dedication but hate them because they're evil. 
It helps to look at the biggest names as characters from The Simpsons . 
Lou Holtz is Mr. Burns and Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal and Executive Vice-President Bill Beauchamp are both Smithers. Once you stop listening to what they say. the whole group is rather humorous. 
Take yourselftoo seriously . .. In­interhall sports are friendly competi­tion. That's the way DuLac sees it but that's far from the truth. Even a sport like women's interhall soccer is life or death. Ask girls from Badin Hall, the Buffalo Bills of inter hall athletics. 
Speak the lingo . ..If you're going to fit in you have to know the terminolo­gy. The Joyce Center is "The JACC." There's also "The Rock." And unless your hoping for a job with public rela­tions, do not call the basketball arena "The Thunderdome" 
Know it all . ..It seems everyone at Notre Dame does, so why shouldn't you? 
• fOOTBAll 
Frosh struggle to make impact 
lead the nation in oddities. 
But not in accolades. 
Only two of the 19 new­comers were named to high school All-America teams. 
Wide receiver Ty Goode and defensive back Jarvis Edison were part of the prestigious Parade All­American squad. 
Everyone else arrived with­out fanfare. 
Immediate impact players are few, but most have been impressive. 
Wide receiver Leon Blunt, 
see FROSH I page 16 

By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Got some Goode news. 
But first, let's be Blunt. 
Notre Dame's freshman football players weren't exactly overwhelmed with praise when they signed last February, even from the man who hired them. 
But when they arrived in early August to begin their initiation, they impressed even their hard-to-please boss . 
With attitude, not necessarily ability. 

"This team has more per­sonality than any team I've had as freshmen," head coach Lou Holtz said after his first session with his new group. "All of them say what's on their mind. They're not intimidated by me." 
They are an eclectic, if not exceptional, bunch. 
There's a Jewish quarter­back and a linebacker from Canada. There's even a baby-faced wide receiver who just turned 17 years old-today. 
Notre Dame's freshmen 

The Next Page 
Famous father 
will be tough act 
to follow 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 

Freshman orientation weekend will introduce many things to Cammie Page, but an introduction to Notre Dame it is not. 
The 5' 11" member of the women's soccer team has been engulfed by the Notre Dame family since birth. Her father, Minnesota State Supreme Court Justice Alan Page, is a 196 7 graduate of Notre Dame and a 1966 consensus All­American defensive end. 
The senior Page, who was in­ducted into the Notre Dame Hall of Fame in 1993, was the first defen­sive player in National Football League history to be named Most Valuable Player and he is a member of the Professional Football Hall of Fame. 
Cammie's accomplishments, too, are certainly not unimpressive. She was an All-State soccer player for three years at Minnehaha Academy in Minneapolis. She was also All­Conference in track and basketball and a member of the Minnesota State Select Soccer Team. 
However, she has a big challenge ahead of her if she hopes to make a significant impact on the team. Last season's squad lost only three games, two of which came at the hands of the top two teams in the nation. This year's team, which is currently ranked seventh by Soccer America, lost only two starters from last year's team. 
"Cammie's been doing quite well," said Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. "With her we see a great deal of potential and a great deal of athletic ability." 
see PAGE I page 16 


of note...
INSIDE ND SPORTS 
Beginning Wednesday The
From Dick Rosenthal (right) to The Rock ­
Observer will give in-depth pre­
-the. lowdown on the athletic side of the dome. 
views of fall sports 

See page 18-19 




