
Tuesday, April26, 1994 • Vol. XXVI No. 131 THE INDEPENDENT NEVVSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Different sexual assault policies explored 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
News Writer 
"Would you mind if I held your hand?" 
"May I kiss your lips?" 
"May I unzip your jeans? ..." 
Improbable questions? Not at Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio where a verbal sexual consent code was imple­mented in June 1992. 
Since its conception Antioch's policy has been the subject of much press and scrutiny, but it presents another administrative response to a growing concern on campuses across the nation-how to address sexual assault. 
From Antioch's Iibera) policy to conservative policies where rape is confined to the act of forced or coerced intercourse, even defining assault has be­come a volatile issue that administrators have found they can no longer ignore. 
A brand new home. 
Four years ago adminis­trators at Brown University in Providence, R.I. discovered they could no longer resist address­ing the issue. 
When a student frustrated with Brown's hand's-off approach to sexual assault wrot~ the name of her rapist on a bathroom wall and more than 15 others followed suit, the University found that its approach would no longer work. 
When reporters asked ques­tions and the men whose names were scrawled on the walls sued the University for slander, Brown added a sexual mis­conduct policy prohibiting "non-consentual physical con­tact of a sexual nature." 
Scenes like the one at Brown are not unusual. An attack has been unleashed on colleges and the federal government press­ing them to revise sexual assault policies and pass legis­lation requiring publication of crime statistics. 
At Notre Dame administrators were reluctant to revise the University's assault policy and implement mandatory orienta­tion programs, but pressure from Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (C.A.R.E.) and the Higher Education Amendments of 1992 forced the University to reconsider its one-sentence pol­icy. 
The revised 1993-94 version of du Lac contains a sexual assault policy and four pages detailing statistics, reporting and disciplinary procedures and resources for the victim and accused. In addition, C.A.R.E., University Counseling Center and the Office of Student Affairs presented a mandatory session during orientation describing campus situations including sexual assault. 
"I feel very good about the revisions," Catherine Bridge, 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling 


Next fall's first female residents look at floor plans of Cavanaugh Hall in preparation for choosing next year's rooms. Cavanaugh will be converted to a women's dorm beginning next year. 
Law School ranked third in poll 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame's Law School is among the best in the nation based on student satisfaction, according to a new study by The National Jurist and Princeton Review. 
Notre Dame placed third in the satisfaction survey, trailing only the Washington and Lee University School of Law, Lex­ington, Va., and Seton Hall Newark, N.J. 
Fernad Dutile, associate dean and professor of law, said he was pleased with the high rat­ing. 
"We think the survey shows that our students are especially pleased with the sense of com­munity that pervades the build­ing," he said. 
First year law student Anne Hoge said Notre Dame's Catholic character sets it apart from Stanford, where she was an undergrad. 
"You don't have the Christian flavor at Stanford," she said. "In fact I'd say its almost anti­Christian there. Notre Dame is pretty unique in that way." 
Third year law student Lisa Janda said as a student she is absolutely satisfied with Notre Dame's Law School. 
"Its small size gives it a fami­ly type atmosphere," she said. "You don't have to be formal and it's easier and you feel bet­ter about learning." 
The rankings are based on the level of satisfaction law stu­dents have with the quality of life, faculty and facilities found at 165 schools nationwide. Within each category, some 18,000 students were asked to evaluate degree of competitive­ness, sense of community, op­portunities for female and mi­nority students, quality of teaching, faculty-student rela­tions, research resources and library staff. 
The Princeton Review is an undergraduate publication of Princeton University. The Na­tional Jurist is a journal for prospective lawyers and un­dergraduates, according to Dutile. 
This is the first year this par­ticular study has been done. 
assistant director of Residence Life, said. 
Included under the bylaws of student rights, responsibilities and policies,_ the policy defines sexual misconduct as "includ­ing, but not limited to sexual in­tercourse without consent, unwelcome touching or other offensive sexual behavior," punishable by disciplinary sus­pension or permanent dis­missal. 

The change is positive, Michele Cummings, co-chair of 
C.A.R.E. said. 
"C.A.R.E. brought things to the administration that maybe they didn't want to see," Cummings said. "Things have progressed. Things are not per­fect, but they are progressing and they are better than they are elsewhere." 
Saint Mary's implemented mandatory sexual assault pro­gramming presented by trained members of C.A.R.E. during orientation three years ago. 
The response to C.A.R.E.'s request for mandatory sexual assault programming and the policy at Saint Mary's is differ­ent than those at many other institutions, according to Director of Residence Life Sherri Crahen. 
~·our concern is for students and safety," said Crahen, who explained that the College is unique because it does not have to protect the accused. 
The most important part of the both policies is that the vic­tim is offered options and choices. Victims decide if they want to seek counseling, go to the hospital or press charges through the institutional or local police systems. 
Despite the choices offered to victims of sexual assault, many don't hear their options, because most occurrences go 
see ASSAULT I page 4 

Alliance helps Hispanic familes while learning 
By BRIAN FITZPATRICK 
News Writer 

The English as a Second Lan­guage class on Wednesday nights, the cultural awareness sessions with Hispanic children on Saturday mornings and the tutoring and volunteering at the South Bend Health Clinic were all a part of Isabel Jakab's dream-a dream that she has realized in the last two years. 
As an Assistant Professional Specialist and Concurrent Lec­turer in the Romance Language Department, Jakab is the fac­ulty advisor to the Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics, an organization which she said has two goals. 
"I wanted to devise a way for my Conversational Spanish class to practice and improve their Spanish by speaking with native Spanish speakers and at the same time serve the His­panic community of South Bend," she said. 
The result was the Commu­nity Alliance to Serve Hispanics, a two-year old stu­dent organization which spon­sors several activities per week, providing services to the grow­ing Hispanic population of South Bend, which Jakab esti­mates numbers about 1,000 families. 
Co-founder and Co-President Carol Smoller, a senior Spanish and Government major, works at the immigration office help­ing to reduce language and bu­reaucratic barriers. Smoller sees the Alliance not so much as a club, but as a service op­portunity. 
"It is really just a gathering of Notre Dame students interested in serving Hispanics, where the needs of the Hispanics in the community are matched with the interests of the volunteers," she said. 
One of the most popular ser­vices, the weekly English as a Second Language '·'class, has ex­panded far beyond Hispanics. 
"Although the classes were originally intended for Hispan­ics, they have since extended to individuals of varied ethnic backgrounds, often including the spouses of graduate stu­dents," Smoller said. 

Another service is the inter­preting students provide for the migrant farm workers at the South Bend Health Clinic. "The farm workers don't understand English and the doctors and nurses can't speak Spanish," Smoller said, "Notre Dame stu­dents are there to bridge tbe gap." 
Saturday mornings are popu­lar times as well, for the Al­liance provides Hispanic chil­dren with what Smoller de­scribes as "cultural aware­ness." 

"The children will come to the Snite for story telling, or we will watch movies with them," he said. 
.Although many of the ser­vices the Alliance provides ben­efit immigrants, Jakab insists that the organization does not aid illegal immigrants. "We help those who are eligible to become legal immigrants take advantage of the opportunity to do so," Jakab said. "We do not help any illegal immigrants." 
Both Jakab and Smoller said the need for such an organiza­tion is extensive, and the $800 in funding the Alliance received this year was essential. Next year, Jakab says the organiza­tion is adding a citizenship class. 
"We are going to try to help the immigrants take the next step; we've already purchased ten books," Jakab said. 

Estela Apolinar will take over the presidency next year, and all students interested in the services provided by the Al­liance can contact her at 634­4837. 
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, April26, 1994 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 


We all fall prey to life's little study jitters 

It's once again that won­derful time of year that all By ANGEL FARAH college students look for-Accoum Executive 
ward to -FINALS WEEK. 
Unfortunately, the pres--------­sures of achieving a good grade (or at least a passing one) isn't the only thing we all get to look forward to. There's also some pretty annoying study tendencies that some of us have which drive others studying next to us up the wall! 
Yet, before I go on to mention a few of these I have to admit that I. myself, have succumbed to more than my share and cannot be exonerated from at least partial guilt. I guess you could categorize these annoyances into two types: "The Outrageous" and "The Syndromes." 
THE OUTRAGEOUS: 
• 
The high volume walkman listener ... (guilty) 

• 
The methodical foot tapper 

• 
Knee shaker 



• 
The overly vocal socialite (isn't that what LaFortune and lounges are for?) 

• The overly vocal studier 


• 
The sniveling snot-sucker (Please use the bathroom-it's private) 

• 
The loud and incessant nose blower 

• 
The chip eater (guilty) 

• 
The gum chewer 




THE SYNDROMES 

• 
Desk-Quake Syndrome This person writes so hard on thJJ desk that not only do you hear it but it sends little tremors across the desk. 

• 
Grotesque Syndrome The making of all noisy body functions. 

• 
Footsie Syndrome This person battles for the best foothold on the rail underneath the desk ... and then never moves. 

• 
Picasso Wanna-be Syndrome Writes, rather draws, all that intellectual and entertaining cubical graffiti. 

• 
Barbara Streisand Syndrome The Singing one. Why??!! Stop it! 

• 
Refrigerator Syndrome Hummers-your neighbors are not sharing in the joy. 

• 
Noisy Bookbag Packer Syndrome As if to insinuate, "Ha! I'm done! You're not." (guilty) 


There is something to be said for finals week: all students have the liberty to act in whatever obnoxious fashion they see fit, if its only just to survive the ensuing stress and anxiety. 
Now if you find yourself to be the roommate of one who insists upon such idiosyncrasies, bear with him or her in their time of need. Who knows, someday it could be you. 
And if it turns out that you are the perpetra­tor, do not fear. It happens to even the best of us. 

However if these annoying study habits per­sist after May 6, it is time to seek counseling or medical attention immediately. After all, there is a limit to how much Jolt, Vivarin, and Sweet Tarts the body can handle, for it could be these very vices that are the sources of our pesky peculiarities. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production 
Liz Foran Cheryl Moser Mara Divis Jackie Moser . Sports Accent 
Tim Sherman Lisa Monaco Graphics Viewpoint Chris Weirup Suzy Fry Business Lab Tech David Clairmonr Michael Hungeling 
Michael Marrin 
The Ob..,rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
excepr during exam and vaca[ion periods. The Observer is a member of 
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Two killed in bombing, ten die in Johannesburg suburb 
PRETORIA, South Africa 1i · b b' J h b next to a liquor store in 
The explosion blasted a errOriSt Om lnQS near 0 annes urg Marabastad, a Pretoria neigh­
hole in the side of the tav­ern, but its address could still be seen on one panel ­352 Blood Street. 
The bomb that ripped through Sonny's Restaurant on Monday evening, killing two people and wounding 29, was the third fatal explosion in less than 48 hours in the Johannesburg region on the eve of elec­tions to end white rule. 
All three blasts, which killed a total of 21 people, w~re blamed on right-wing extremists trying to disrupt this week's first all-race elections. 
Police quoted witnesses as saying that young white men inside a blue car hurled an explosive at Sonny's, a tavern crowded with blacks. About 120 peo­ple were reported inside at the time. 
Late Monday, a man claiming to speak for the small, pro-apartheid White Freedom Movement telephoned a Johannesburg newspaper, saying the group was respon­sible for the Germiston bombing. Police did not say whether they considered the call genuine. 
Sonny's was a shack-like tavern of corrugated metal 

Mrs. Clinton pushes health care 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Hillary Rodham Clinton recalled Richard Nixon's push for health care reform in defending her husband's efTorts to guarantee universal coverage and have employers pay the bulk of the costs. Addressing the annual meeting of The Associated Press, Mrs. Clinton said Monday that when Nixon urged dra­matic health care reform in 1971 and 

1974 he "did if for many of the same reasons this presi­dent did." Ignoring Nixon's stinging criticisms of President Clinton's package, she said the two presidents recognized the economic imperative of health reform, wanted to build on the strengths of the existing system, and recognized the need to provide coverage to unin­sured Americans. 
Boat ban proposed for 13 beaches 
GARY, Ind. 
Swimmers at some Lake Michigan beaches soon could get legal protection from motorboats. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources is considering a rule banning boats from the lake's most popular swimming beaches in northwest Indiana, and residents will get to voice their opinions on the proposal in about one week. Communities have traditionally used buoys to mark no­boat areas, erroneously thinking they were creating legal swimming areas, said Steve Davis, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources' Lake Michigan special­ist. "So what we decided to do was go ahead and adopt a rule to adopt legal no-boat zones." Area residents will get to tell the DNR what they think of the proposed rule at a May 4 hearing in Michigan City. The rule would prohibit boats, including sailboats from coming within 200 feet of those beaches. 
borhood of vacant lots and run­down shops used as a transit point by many black commuters. 
In Germiston, a Johannesburg suburb, blacks were also target­ed when a 220-pound car bomb blasted a taxi stand, killing 10 people and wounding at least 36, Monday morning. Police held a person for questioning. 
The force of the blast sent election posters and at least one vehicle flying into trees, blew out windows and wrecked about 20 minivans, which are used as taxis by black commuters. 
Police lay out a row of stretch­ers. Ambulances screamed to hospitals with wounded as secu­rity forces raced to rope ofT the scene. 
Car parts hung from trees and body parts and twisted metal lay scattered on the ground over a four-block area in Germiston. 
The bomb was planted in a trailer attached to a car, police 
Taxi owner Patrick Sikhonde said two of his three taxis were damaged and the drivers missing. He also feared for youths paid to watched the parked vans, and the women who sell grilled corn and porridge from nearby food stands. 
Dungeon girl suspects to plead guilty 
HAUPPAUGE, N.Y. 
The man accused of holding a girl prisoner in a dun­geon will plead guilty to kidnapping in exchange for a 15­year prison term, a source close to the case said today. The plea means Katie Beers, now 11, will be spared hav­ing to testify against John Esposito. She is living with a foster family on Long Island. Esposito had faced up to 25 years in prison. He was accused of holding the girl for 16 days in a small soundproof bunker under his Bay Shore home on Long Island. Police freed her on Jan. 13, 1993. Esposito was being held pending trial. In a related case. Sal Inghilleri, the husband of the girl's godmother, has agreed to plead guilty to sex abuse for fondling Katie and will get a 2 1/2-year prison sentence, roughly half of what he faced, said the source, who insisted on anonymity. The agreements have yet to be signed by lawyers and certi­fied by a judge. 
Lockheed: smokers need not apply 
MARIETTA, Ga. 
Smoking has become an even more expensive habit ­it just might cost you a job. Lockheed Aeronautical Systems Co. has joined a small group of companies that will not hire cigarette smokers. "Smokers cost more on a long-term basis," said Doug Oliver, a spokesman for the Marietta subsidiary of Lockheed Corp. "This will help cut our health care costs and make us more competitive." He cited a study that found 77 percent of Lockheed's employ­eees who are cardiac patients were smokers. The policy. effective in July, also bans smoking in all buildings at Lockheed Aeronautical, which employs about 10,000 peo­ple in Marietta. The ban on new hires does not include laid-ofT workers returning to work, Oliver said, and does not afTect the parent Lockheed Corp., based in Calabasas, Calif. 
NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 26. 
Thesday, April 26 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

..........-r~....,........_ 
• 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1994 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY V1a Associst9d Press 

~,~,~~~~ (t ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet Cl1993 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 
Atlanta 87 62 Denver 57 37 New York 74 54 Baltimore 87 55 Houston 83 70 Philadelphia 88 59 Boston 44 42 Los Angeles 60 50 Phoenix 72 49 Chicago 85 64 Miami 82 66 St. Louis 85 68 Columbus 84 52 Minneapolis 54 45 San Francisco 59 49 Dallas 80 70 New Orleans 86 68 Seattle 64 42 

• 
Tuesday, April26, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Finals Week Gettin' Ya Down? 
Beat The Clock Tuesday! 

ND students receive Fulbright Scholarships 
Special to The Observer list five semesters and took part 
in Notre Dame's Summer 
Four Notre Dame seniors Service Project community have been awarded Fulbright assistance program in 1993. grants for graduate study • Patricia Villarreal, San abroad in the 1994-95 aca-Diego-An economics and demic year. Spanish major, Villarreal will 
•Betsy Brody, Richardson, study the economic impact of Texas-A government and Spain's 1986 admittance to the Japanese major, Brody will European Economic study the History, development Community. She will engage in and implications of the independent study and take Japanese Constitution's Article courses at Carlos 1ll University 25, which provides for "the in Madrid. Villarreal spent the right to a decent life" for all 1992-93 academic year in citizens of the country. She Notre Dame's international plans to carry out her research studies program in Toledo, at Waseda University. Spain, and took part in the 
A member of the dean's list American Economic As­since 1990, Brody spent the sociation's 1993 summer pro­1991-92 academic year at Nan-gram at Stanford University. zan University's Center for A monogram winner in cross Japanese Studies. She has country, she also participated served as a peer counselor in · in Notre Dame's Hispanic Notre Dame's Freshman year of American Organization and Studies and as a volunteer tutor League of United Latin in the University's Neigh-American Citizens. borhood Study Help Program. • James Wilberding, Dayton, 
• Maura Gallagher, Yonkers, Ohio-Recipient of both a bach­N.Y.-A German and American elor of science degree in studies major, Gallagher will mathematics and philosophy examine the Austrian seces-and a bachelor of arts degree sion, a movement in art and ar-in mathematics during a year chitecture which sought free-at the Institut fuer Didaktik der dom from the rules of the Vi-Mathematik at the Universitaet ennese establishment and en-Bielefeld in Germany. couraged contact with art from abroad. She will be based at Wilberding participated for the University of Vienna. three years on the board of the 
An epeeist on Notre Dame's Notre Dame Encounter for 1994 national championship Christ and was a two-year fencing team, Gallagher re­member of the club rowing cently was selected a winner of team. He has had artwork on the University's Kanaley Award display in Notre Dame's Snite for academic excellence and Museum and O'Shaughnessy 

Colloquy examines growth 
By KATHLEEN MURPHY 
Associate News Editor 
In the year since University President Father Edward Mal­loy submitted the "Final Report Colloquy for the Year 2000" to the University trustees, four evaluation committees have been established and have gathered further information on the University's future plans. 
The University Curriculum Committee, the ad hoc Commit­tee on University Libraries, the University Committee on Re­search, Scholarship and Infras­tructure, and the University Committee on International Studies will present their find­ings and proposals to the Aca­demic Council tonight, accord-




Welfare training effective 
By JENNIFER DIXON 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Government training pro­grams are moving limited num­bers of single mothers off wel­fare and into jobs, and much more would need to be done to achieve President Clinton's "two years and out" reform proposal, according to a federal study Monday. 
The report, by the National Commission for Employment Policy, said federal employment and training programs must be significantly expanded and up­graded if Clinton's plan to re­quire welfare recipients to find a job within two years is to suc­ceed. 
The commission, an inde­ing to Father William Beauchamp, executive vice­president. These four groups have worked extensively throughout the year. 

The University Curriculum Committee, according to the Colloquy report, will "make recommendations to the Aca­demic Council on the quality of the undergraduate learning ex­perience at Notre Dame." 
The ad hoc committee on University libraries was estab­lished to give an extensive re­view of the resources in Notre Dame libraries as well as the trends and developments in peer research libraries." 
The University Committee on Research, Scholarship, and In­frastructure will "develop a comprehensive strategic plan 
pendent federal agency that advises the president and Congress on employment is­sues, also said that a two-year limit on welfare benefits will only work if training and em· ployment are tailored to each parent's individual needs. And support services, such as trans­portation and child care, must be made available. · 
"There is no silver bullet to end welfare dependency," said Commission Chairman Anthony Carnevale. 
"The good news is that estab­lished government-sponsored employment and training pro­grams can move welfare recip­ients into the workplace and beyond poverty under a 'two and out' plan," Carnevale said. "However, we must focus much 

Papa John's Pizza Is Brainfood! 

r:----------., 
1Late Night Speciall 1 after 8 p.m. I 
:Large 1 Topping: 1 Pizza I 


l$595 
__________ ...
+TAX l

u 

h---------~ 
r-----7---,
1Large 1 Toppingl 1 2 Sttx I : Pizza : : & : : Stix & 2 Cokes: : 2 Cokes : 
l$500
~1000 +T~ +TAX l 
----------~ ----------~ 
Friday the 29th Saturday the 7th 
NBWHOURS 
2 a.m. 



(') 


for improving research and scholarship at Notre Dame, with special emphasis on the infrastructure, research-devel­opment funding and mainte­nance to support these endeav­ors." 
The University Committee on International Studies was "formed to prepare a mission statement for Notre Dame's in­ternational programs, to assess and ensure their academic strength, to consider their re­organization and relocation to a more visible campus site, and to plan for their future growth." 
Beauchamp anticipates that the forthcoming proposal and recommendations of these com­mittees will be published in the Notre Dame Report. 
more attention on the quality and kind of services offered." 
A Clinton administration task force has drafted a plan to limit welfare benefits to two years, followed by mandatory work for participants unable to find a job on their own. 
The cost of paying for those jobs and expanding education, training and child-care for the youngest of the 5 million fami­lies now on Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) is expected to total $10 billion to $13 billion over the first five years, and from $30 billion to $40 billion over 10 years. 
The administration, however, has yet to decide how to pay for its plan. 
The commission's study tracked 6,467 women on AFDC who enrolled in training and employment services under the federal Job Training and Part­nership Act in 1986. 
None had worked for at least 

• a year before beginning class­room study or on-the-job train­ing with JTPA. After participat­ing in JTP A, for roughly four to six months, three-fourths of the women were placed in a job. 
Half of those women were employed during the first year after JTPA and just under half were employed in their second year. 
Sixteen percent had moved out of poverty in their first year after completing JTPA and 22 percent were above poverty in their second year. 
The women all volunteered for JTPA, and appear to be a select group motivated to work, the study said. 
In contrast, fewer than 20 percent of AFDC recipients who had not been employed in the previous year were similarly motivated and looking for work, the study said, citing Census Bureau data. 
Carnevale said the ultimate goal of training programs like JTPA must be to place people in good jobs that offer a chance at economic self-sufficiency. 
According to the commis­sion's study, parents who re­ceived intensive services, such as occupational classroom training and on-the-job train­ing, were more likely to move out of poverty than those who received minimal services, such as help rmding a job. 
About one-third of parents on welfare are functionally illiter­ate and half are high-school 

\ dropouts, Carnevale said. 
CAMPUS BRIEF 


------~-----~-----~~-~ 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, April 26, 1994 


Assault 
continued from page 1 
unreported. 
For the 1992-93 academic year both campuses recorded no sexual assaults. The University has recorded three rapes and the College none this year, but the tallies are still well below the number of actu­al rapes that take place, mak­ing the statistics and the reality of sexual assault on campus two different things. 
"You look at the reported sta­tistics and think it doesn't hap­pen here," Cummings said. "But only five percent of rapes are reported." 
A study by Kent State University's Kate Moss said that one in four college women were the victim of sexual assault or attempted sexual assault. Subsequent studies have esti­mated anywhere from one in two to one in ten. 
College age women are four times more likely to be assault­ed, according to du Lac. Sixty percent of college women know their attackers and date rape is reported only one percent of the time, according to the National Crime Prevention Council. 
"The reality of our campus is that we don't have strangers jumping out of the bushes at 3 a.m., acquaintance rape is what happens at a place like Saint Mary's, (and) rape is under reported," according to Crahen. 
Administrators say that rape may be reported less at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's because of misunderstandings regarding other campus policies. 
At Notre Dame students sub­scribe to the misguided notion that if they report a rape they could be punished for violating the University's sexual union policy or the parietals policy if the assault occurs after re­stricted hours. 

"The sexual union policy and the parietal policy fall by the wayside whether or not we fmd the male responsible or not," Notre Dame Official Bridge said. "Breaking the sexual union policy and parietals are very serious violations, and are not to be taken lightly, but they are put aside in cases involving an alleged sexual assault." 
While Saint Mary's has no policy forbidding sexual union, violations of the College's pari­etal policy are disregarded in cases of sexual assault as well. 
"We don't care that it's after 2 a.m., we care that a women is being assaulted," Crahen said. 
Whether or not sexual as­saults go unreported at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's because of institutional policies, Central . Michigan Professor Steve Thompson said that the stigma victims suffer accounts for rape being an unreported crime. 
"Rape is a topic most people don't want to hear about, but it is a very real problem in our culture" according to Thompson who has studied assault survivors and perpetra­tors for more than 20 years. "I'm tired of people in our cul­ture pointing the finger at women and blaming them for my gender's action." 
"Nobody asks this to be done to them," Thompson continued acknowledging that victims may not exercise sound judgment, but saying that a difference still exists between not exercising sound judgment and consent. 
If a male was mugged while jogging at 11 p.m., "the police may say that he did not exer­cise good judgment, but we wouldn't ask him what he was wearing," Thompson said. "I wish we could create a pro-sur­vivor environment, a culture where we treat survivors of rape as survivors of other crime." 
Teaching society that what a women wears, how much she drinks and exercising poor judgment does not mean that
• 

she wants to be sexually violat­ed is the first step in giving vic­tims of sexual assault the same rights that other crime victims enjoy. But how to change these beliefs and encourage commu­nication between men and women about sexual assault is a struggle that continues. 
While the answer may not be asking for consent at every step, Antioch's policy is attempting to do just that­encourage discussion and change attitudes. 
Antioch students and ad­ministrators were surprised at the media attention received nearly a year after it adopted its policy, according to Karen Hall, director of Sexual Assault Prevention and Survivors' Advocacy Programs. 
"It's very radical to them (the media) because of the verbal consent, consent at every step and that students developed the policy, but students developed a policy they thought would work on this campus," Hall said. 
The policy did work, since its implementation reporting of sexual assault has increased and has continued to increase, according to Hall. 
"That's what we wanted," Antioch's Hall said, "To en­courage reporting." 
Hall admits that not every student stops and asks for,con­sent at every step of sexual inti­macy, but she did say that the policy has encouraged aware­ness. 
"We have begun to educate students that silence does not mean consent, consent must be verbal and willing," according to Hall. 
But education on college cam­puses does not necessarily lead to accurate reporting of sexual assault by campus officials who are afraid of what a high num­ber of rapes could do to the institution's image. 
Passage of the Crime Awareness and Campus Security Act of 1990 required campuses to release crime sta-tistics, but a 1992 report issued by the Campus Safety and Security Institute said that 32 percent of institutions distort and conceal information re­lating to the extent of crime on their campuses. 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES! ORDERS MAY NOW BE PLACED FOR YOUR CLASS RINGS Orders may be placed in the Ring Office Wednesday april 20th -Friday May 6th from 9 am. -4:30pm.  )  
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus" Open Monday through Saturday 9 am. -5 pm.  

With sexual assault being a largely unreported crime, fur­ther tampering with statistics only furthers the false sense of safety that many students per­ceive. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's claim that they don't hide the fact that crime happens on campus. Both campuses issue crime watches when a sexual assault occurs and have im­plemented crime awareness and prevention programs. 
But legislation, revised poli­cies and education are not without their critics. In her book "The Morning After: Sex, Fear and Feminism on College 
SECURITY BEAT 


9:20 a.m. A Planner Hall resident lrHIOrt1!1d the theft of hill VCR from his 
The rqom was left unlocked at the thef'l;w:v.­
Campus," author Katie Roiphe says that institutions are invok­ing fear and creating women who feel they will inevitably become the powerless victims of rape. 
But Roiphe is criticized as making light of a situation in which men and women need education at the time when they are most likely to be the perpetrators and the victims of sexual crimes. 
Roiphe need not be fearful­the most difficult task remains in informing students about rape. Education remains the goal of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Antioch, C.A.H.E. and countless colleges, universities and advocacy groups. 
Campus sexual assault will continue to go unreported until students and society at large learn that sexual contact and mutual consent are inclusive terms. 

reported the theft of two mattresses from a hallway In Stanford Hall. 
7:46 p.m. A University employee was transported to the Student Health Services tor treatment of Injuries sus­tained during a fall. 
SUN., APRIL 24 

4:18a.m. A Lewis Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of lnjurlea sus­
during a fall. 

p.m. A Lyons Hall resident the theft of her bike from Lyons 
p.m. A Asher Hall resident · the theft of his portable stereo room. The room was left unn:~e1111C1 at the time of the theft. 
8:,15 p.m. An Alumni Hall resident reported the theft of hill wallet and watch from hla room. 




·----------------·I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
.I I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

II It's b1g, .t s f:csh and lt"s only a buck s1xty-n1nel Subway's 1 
6" Cold C,;t Combo'S filled w1th meat, cheese and your 1
I cho1ce of free f1x1n s, on bread baked fresh nght 1n the store 1
I Come -:_r-•· 'or a fill-up todayl I 

I Good at all ~jiJ :;ltJij\'i Good at all I II South Bend ~-~""~./ South Bend II 
LoGations 1 .,7 ~!VIii Locations 
I 
II SAVE $1.00 ON I BUY AFOOTLONG I ANY REGULAR : &MEDIUM DRINK, I : FOOTLONG!!! I GET A_ 2ND FOR 99¢ I 1 ~11) ;fl;!]..;\'i) : ~jl) ;ll;lfiri : 
I Not good with any other discount or 1 Not good with any olhef dlscwnt or I offef. One coupon per cusiO!llef, 1 offef · One coupon per customer,

L.;~~;.M.;.1~9.;..~ ~;x;;~9;. • .I 
Tuesday, April26, 1994 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Victims split over gun ban Clinton now supports 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK semi-automatic rifle. "These guns," Anderson said in an 

separate social security 
Associated Press weapons were designed for the interview. "None is more 
battlefield, not the streets of vicious or more unnecessary WASHINGTON America," he said. than these assault weapons." 
ByJENNIFER DIXON cost-effective government." 
Suzanna Gratia saw her 71-Grim-faced, Clinton eyed the Jacquie Miller -shot four 
Associated Press On Monday, Shalala's
year-old father killed during a long, black weapon and criti­times during a co-worker's 
spokesman, Victor Zonana,deadly shooting spree in a cized the House for so long 1989 attack with an AK-4 7 

WASHINGTON took a different tack. 

Killeen, Texas, cafeteria 2 1/2 resisting such legislation. assault-style weapon at the In a break with Health and "This department is in favor years ago and later learned her "Who are we trying to kid?" Standard Gravure Printing Co. 
Human Services Secretary of anything that would bolstermother was also among the 23 he asked. "There is an air of in Louisville, Ky. -opposes the Donna Shalala, President Clin­public confidence in the Socialslain. unreality about this debate." ban. 
ton has decided to support Security system," he said. 
But banning 19 types of "It completely enrages me legislation making Social The troubled agency has beenassault weapons and limiting Stephen Sposato -whose that my tragedy is being used 
Security an independent declared "brain-dead in the
ammunition clips to five wife, Jody, was among eight against me to deny me and all agency. . policy sense," by Sen. Danielrounds, as a pending House bill people slain July 1, 1993, when the law-abiding citizens of this According to congressional Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y., who proposes, would do no good, a gunman invaded a San country the right to the firearm and administration aides, Clin­has also accused Shalala andshe told the House Judiciary Francisco law firm with an of our choosing," Miller said. 
ton notified key members of the Clinton administration ofsubcommittee on crime assault weapon -emphatically~ Gratia, meanwhile, said she Congress last week that he en­giving Social Security shortMonday. supported the ban. was fed up with those offering a dorses taking the Social Secu­shrift. 
"It takes one second to switch "How long must the parade "sporting purposes" require­rity Administration out of the Clinton's support of indepen­a clip," the 34-year-old chiro­of amputee families be?" he ment for guns. 
Department of Health and Hu­dent agency status virtually as­
practor said, demonstrating asked at the House hearing. "The Second Amendment is 
man Services. sures the bill's passage, said a with a pantomime in the air. "How long must the march of. not about duck hunting," she With 65,000 employees, a senior White House official who Ken Brondell Jr. of Canyon the participants be, the mourn­said. 
budget of over $300 billion and confirmed that the presidentCountry, Calif., said whatever ers and maimed? How long "It's about our rigbt to pro­a network of 1 ,300 field offices, thinks it is a good idea to moveshort time it does take and the before our government takes tect ourselves from you guys up Social Security is the biggest forward with the bill. The offi­fact that each clip contains action?" there." 
department in HHS and touches cial spoke only on condition of fewer bullets can make a differ­The Senate passed an identi­Both said they were not the lives of almost all Ameri­anonymity. 
ence. cal ban last November as part National Rifle Association mem­cans. The House Ways and Means
of its crime bill. The House bers, although the NRA has 
Funded with payroll taxes on Committee is scheduled to take''If it would save one life ... passed a crime bill last week helped finance their speaking 135 million workers, Social Se­up its version of the bill, spon­obviously the law is worth it," without voting on the gun ban. trips. 
curity provides retirement, dis­sored by Rep. Andy Jacobs, D­said Brondell, whose sister, Los Rep. Charles Schumer, D­ability and survivors benefits to Ind., on Thursday.
Angeles Police Officer Christy N.Y., subcommittee chairman, The NRA maintains that the 42 million Americans. The Backers of the plan, including Brondell Hamilton, was killed said he believes 15 to 20 more way to stop gun violence is to agency also runs Supplemental the American Association ofFeb. 18 when a teen-ager fired votes are needed for passage of lock up wrongdoers for a long Security Income, a fast-growing Retired Persons, the country's 
an assault-style weapon a separate ban bill in the time. But several of those 
welfare program for seniors largest and most influential se­through the door of her squad House, which has never sup­opposing the ban acknowledged and the disabled. niors group, say the agency has car. ported any ban on assault-style that their assailants had no The Senate voted March 2 to seen high turnover in its high­Seven victims of gun violence weapons. criminal records. 
take Social Security out of HHS, est ranks -including 12 com­who testified favored the bill. In the audience, prepared to Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner while the House has approved missioners in 17 years -andThree were opposed. help push the bill, was former Jr., R-Wis., said the gun similar legislation three times that service to the public hasAt the White House, President Rep. John Anderson, R-Ill., a President Clinton used for hunt­in recent years. suffered.
Clinton threw his weight behind one-time presidential candi­ing last year and one that Shalala had been the bill's Moynihan and the bill's otherthe bill, which would spare 650 date. would be banned by the legisla­primary opponent. Testifying supporters say independencelisted sporting firearms from "I have long been convinced tion, both Benelli 12-gauge before Congress last year, she will make Social Security morethe ban. that one of the principal com­shotguns, differed only in that said separating Social Security visible and accountable, lessDuring a Rose Garden cere­ponents of the crime emer­the latter has a pistol grip and from HHS would "run counter vulnerable to budget-cutting mony with crime victims, the gency we have in American can hold seven shells, four to the public's demand for a and will insulate the New Dealpresident held aloft an AR-15 today is because of the flood of more than the other. 
leaner, more efficient and more program from politics. 
l
~ 
"' 
l>o 
"' 
:Il

You could rent any truck. 
'< 
0. 
~ 
-i 
n 
C1> 
" 
-~ 
s 
~ 
-a 5

Then again, you could've :7 :Il ,., 2 
c. 
C1> 
c 
(/) )> 
)> 
C1>" 
.a

gone to any school. " ;; s· 
c 
'!< 
0 
0 
" 

There are thousands of colleges out there. Fortunately, you made a good choice. Now make the right choice when you leave. Rent a truck from Ryder .• 
Ryder makes your move easy. With a convenient toll-free reservation number. 
Clean, reliable vehicles that are easy to load and drive. Fast processing to speed up check­
in and check-out. And a 24-hour Roadside Assistance Line for help along the way. 
So put your education to good use and calll-800-GO-RYDER (1-800-467-9337) 
or call your local Ryder dealerfor special student rates: 
51370 U.S. 33 North 2715 N. Bendix Dr. 219-272-1669 219-277-3550 



page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ru·ssia will be fair in Mideast peace quest 
Associated Press 

(AP) MOSCOW 
Russia will be evenhanded in its push for peace in the Middle East, Russia's prime minister told Israel's Yitzhak Rabin Monday. 
Prime Minister Viktor Cher­nomyrdin denied suggestions that Russia's new foreign policy line had a pro-Arab tilt and chastised both sides for vio­lence in the Israeli-occupied territories. 
He also told Rabin the Jewish state's fears about a possible upsurge of nationalism and anti-Semitism in Russia were exaggerated. The concerns have been heightened by the rise of ultra nationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky. 
"There will be no anti­Semitism here, nor will fascism make its way here," Cher­nomyrdin said. · 
Their meeting opened the for­mal part of Rabin's four-day visit to Russia, the first by an Israeli prime minister since the 1991 Soviet collapse. 
The two signed six agree­
ments pledging cooperation in science, technology, culture, agriculture and public health. They also decided to start work on a comprehensive trade and economic pact that may be signed before Rabin departs. 
Rabin met separately with Ivan Rybkin, the Communist speaker of parliament's lower house. He also will discuss Mideast peace issues with President Boris Yeltsin, Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev and Defense Minister Pavel Grachev before traveling to St. Peters­burg, where his mother Jived. 
The two governments are try­ing to advance Israeli-PLO negotiations on Palestinian au­tonomy in the occupied Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho. Israel and the Pales­tine Liberation Organization signed a peace accord on Sept. 13, but it still must be carried out. Disputes have slowed ne­gotiations. 
"We want peace in the Middle East, and I think that Russian interests correspond with ours," Rabin said after meeting with Rybkin. 
Sara Huber and junior Ericka Beckman serve El Buen Vecino's Mexican dinner last night in the Center for Social Concerns. 

Ne·· lished ITJ.Ul!J¥~. per us1n that's all be will not accept 
himself, psycholot~ically ;:i$ not a man who stand$ firmly on his feet.~i > •iih,~Jiilliill%·+t~·bitl'\! 
--­ -~\~ri"il~-UWI~!-'--~ --­--­I I I  , ,  , , , , ,  I ~ --­-. ' ISE IT EVERY TIME Yll MAlE ALINC IJSTANCE COLLECT CALL.  

Tuesday, April 26, 1994 The Observer • NEWS page 7 


Soldiers kill over 23 in Haiti Serbs block convoy; 
By MICHAEL NORTON 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, 
Haiti 

Soldiers massacred at least 23 fishermen and merchants in a west coast slum loyal to oust­ed President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, witnesses and human rights advocates said Monday. It followed a wave of attacks on Haiti's pro-democracy move­ment. 
The soldiers raided a seaside neighborhood near the west coast city of Gonaives, firing shots in the air Saturday, but causing no reported injuries. 
Hours later, they returned and began shooting indiscrimi­nately at people gathering fire­wood on the beach. The troops also commandeered rowboats and attacked fishermen off shore. The weekend attack was first reported Monday. 
The killings come as Wash­ington has toughened its stance against the military, which has dominated Haiti since ousting the elected Aristide in a 1991 coup. Up to 3,000 people, many of them Aristide supporters, have been killed since 1991 in political violence. 
"I think this is a continuation of the effort to decapitate the democratic movement in Haiti," Ira Kurzban, the U.S. counsel for Aristide's govern­ment, told The Associated Press from his office in Miami. 
The Raboteau slum where the attack took place has been a scene of recent struggle be­tween Aristide supporters and militants of a neo-Duvalierist paramilitary movement, the Front for the Advancement and Progress of Haiti (FRAPH). 
Residents and the pro-Aris­tide Haitian Information Bureau said the attack began with a raid on the dusty, sea­side slum in Gonaives, 100 miles north of the capital Port­au-Prince. 
Soldiers who said they were looking for armed Aristide par­tisans shot into the air, roused people from their beds and roughed them up, witnesses said. 
The soldiers returned at dawn Saturday, firing at em­barking fishermen. They com­mandeered rowboats and hunt­ed down fishermen and mer-
HaPPY 21st to mY favorite roomie! 
GO WilD JUliE LEISCHNER! 
Love. 
Angie 
chants bringing in goods. 
The bodies washed ashore gradually: three on Saturday and at least 20 from Sunday to early Monday afternoon, said the witnesses, speaking on con­dition of anonymity. 
There was no immediate comment from state radio or from the military. 
Gonaives led the struggle to topple the 29-year Duvalier family dictatorship in 1986, and the city was a stronghold of support for Aristide in his over­whelming electoral triumph in 1990. 
On April 17, a FRAPH mili­tant, Pierre Paul Camille, was the victim of assault and bat­tery, presumably by Aristide partisans, the independent Tropic F .M. radio reported. 
The next day, FRAPH mili­tants set up barricades of flam­ing tires, Tropic reported. Sol­diers raided Raboteau and beat up its residents. 
On April 8, soldiers beat off an armed attack of their Petit Bourge outpost by presumed Aristide partisans. About 500 soldiers subsequently partici­pated in regional sweeps in which peasants have had to pay ransoms to escape arbitrary ar­rest and women and young girls were raped, the pro-Aris­tide Haitian Press Agency re­ported. 
The U.S. Coast Guard, mean­while, shipped back 98 Haitian boat people who had been in­tercepted trying to flee their troubled homeland. 
U.S. Embassy spokesman Stanley Schrager said 18 of the refugees were detained by Haitian authorities after being repatriated. 
Under a May 1992 White House order, Haitian boat peo­ple intercepted at sea are re­turned home without a check to determine whether they are fleeing economic devastation or political persecution. 




U.N evacuates more
ft 

By SUSAN LINNEE Serbs burned houses and blew Associated Press up a water treatment plant, but 
U.N. officials said they were SARAJEVO, Bosnia­generally satisfied. Herzegovina NATO has also demanded 

Bosnian Serbs blocked a U.N. freedom of movement for U.N. aid convoy headed for Gorazde personnel and unrestricted ac­Monday despite pledges to al­cess for humanitarian convoys low free access, but appeared to Gorazde, Sarajevo and four to be moving heavy weapons other Muslim enclaves that the farther away from the Muslim United Nations has designated town as demanded by NATO. "safe areas." 
U.N. helicopters evacuated 91 About 350 peacekeepers more wounded people from the moved to Gorazde over the besieged Muslim enclave for weekend and a humanitarian 
treatment in Sarajevo. Hun­convoy delivered 90 tons of aid dreds more were waiting Sunday. flights. But Bosnian Serbs blocked a The Serbs mostly halted their second aid convoy at the Yu­
assault on Gorazde on Sunday, goslav border Monday, claim­more than a day after NATO ing it had no clearance, aid threatened air strikes if they workers said. The convoy, did not immediately cease fire which carried 80 tons of food, 
and withdraw armor and ar­planned to try again Tuesday. tillery 1.9 miles from the town "Basically, they are delaying center. the convoy," said Peter Kessler, a U.N. spokesman. "There is no NATO commanders sought freedom of movement." 
U.N. 
permission to conduct air The deputy commander of strikes Saturday, but the chief Bosnian Serb forces, Gen. Milan 

U.N. 
official for former Yu­Gvero, said Serbs had with­goslavia, Yasushi Akashi, re­drawn outside the exclusion fused. U.N. officials explained zone and fulfilled their agree­Monday that he did not want to ment to allow humanitarian aid jeopardize a truce agreement into Gorazde and medical evac­he had just worked out with the uation operations. Serbs. Gvero said Serb POWs were 


NATO officials said Monday held in Gorazde and demanded the alliance received assur­their release, saying, "It's oth­ances its warplanes would be ers' turn now to show good allowed to stage bombing runs will." if Bosnian Serbs ignored the NATO warnings. Kessler said 400 to 600 
The Serbs appeared to be wounded in Gorazde needed to abiding by the cease-fire and be evacuated, but the operation by the orders to withdraw. was moving slowly because the 
"We have good news from injured were dispersed all over Gorazde," said a U.N. town. The United Nations evac­spokesman, Maj. Guy Vinet. uated 85 wounded Sunday. "The situation is quiet. ... Many of the wounded arriving 
There's some sporadic small­in Sarajevo were men of draft arms fire, but it's very little." age. 
Cmdr. Eric Chaperon, an­U.N. physician Genevieve other U.N. spokesman, said "all Begkoyian said sniping in heavy weapons are believed to Gorazde on Monday was com­
be out" of the exclusion zone. plicating efforts to get people 
He said some Serb infantry from their homes to the heli­
were still on the right bank of copters. 
the Drina River, which divides U.N. officials also said the 
Gorazde, but it appeared they Serbs were delaying the evacu­
would withdraw. ations by making helicopters 
Chaperon said indications land for inspection in Serb-held 
were that the Serbs were territory both going into and 
pulling farther back to meet out of Gorazde. 
NATO's demand that their At least 715 people were 
troops be at least 12.4 miles killed and nearly 2,000 wound­
from Gorazde by early ed during the nearly month Wednesday. long Serb assault on Gorazde As they pulled back Sunday, area. 
The Office of Recreational Sports would like to thank all those persons who made this past year a great success. 
Rectors N.D. Security The Observer N.D. Golf Course Rockne Memorial Rolf•s Aquatic Center Loftus Sports Center Joyce A. C. C. Ice Rink Athletic Grounds Crew Athletic Commissioners RecService Course Instructors Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center Intramural Officials & Aerobic Instructors Student Supervisors & Issue Room Workers Medical Services, EMT's & First Aid Personnel and all of the participants. 

THANK YOU! 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, April 26, 1994 
Crowds at 




U.S. will double aid to South Africa 
anti-fascist events 
By PIERO VALSECCHI Associated Press 
MILAN, Italy 

Leftist parties led huge rallies against Italy's new conserva­tive leadership Monday on the anniversary of the revolt against Nazis and their fascist allies. 
About 200,000 people gath­ered in Milan despite heavy rain, and hundreds of thou­sands attended events else­where for the 49th anniversary of Liberation Day, which marks uprisings that helped defeat the Nazis in Italy and led to the downfall of Benito Mussolini's fascist regime. 
Many of the largest rallies targeted the right-wing coali­tion led by Silvio Berlusconi that won parliamentary elec­tions last month. Berlusconi is expected to be nominated as premier this week. 
A Berlusconi ally, National Alliance leader Gianfrano Fini has described Mussolini as one of the century's "greatest statesmen." The new House of Deputies speaker, Irene Pivetti, said last week that the dicta­tor's policies helped Italian women and promoted family life. 
A sign carried at a Milan rally read: "Irene, learn histo­ry." 
Other marchers chanted slo­gans mocking Berlusconi and another key ally, Northern League leader Umberto Bossi. Angry youths surrounded and jeered Bossi and another league official. 
About 200 Northern League supporters had to march on a different route following protests by leftists who opposed a common demonstra­tion. 
Milan police said the marches were among the biggest politi­cal demonstrations in the city in 20 years. The largest Monday was led by Achille Occhetto, secretary of the for­mer Communists, now called the Democratic Party of the Left. The elections effectively shut out leftist parties from power. 
Occhetto called the rally "a fight against attempts of re­venge by those forces which did not understand the sense of freedom and the Resistance." 
On April 28, 1945, Mussolini and his mistress were executed near Lake Como after partisans caught them trying to flee to Germany. 
[!) 
By RITA BEAMISH 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Clinton administration will double assistance to South Africa once the first post­apartheid government takes over, and encourage U.S. com­panies to invest there despite the current violence, Commerce Secretary Ron Brown said Monday. 
After this week's elections, the administration will pledge about $160 million to South Africa, Brown said in a speech sponsored by the Howard Uni­versity Committee on South Africa. 
Nelson Mandela's African National Congress is widely ex­pected to emerge the victor in the multiracial parliamentary elections taking place Tuesday through Thursday. 
Currently the Agency for In­ternational Development pro­vides $80 million in educational and humanitarian assistance to non governmental groups in South Africa. Congress blocked direct U.S. aid to the South African government because of its segregation and human rights policies. 
U.S. officials have said the new assistance will go into tra­ditional aid programs including housing, health and other social needs. 
But Brown said foreign assis­tance is not the answer to South Africa's problems as it emerges from white-minority domination and tries to better the standard of living for its impoverished black population. 
Nor is a redistribution of wealth the key, because there are too many needy people, Brown said. 
"It will be the private sector that drives the economic recov­ery in South Africa," he said. 
"Salvation is not going to come from an aid policy, he said, "Salvation is going to come from increasing invest­ment and trade." 
U.S. firms should not be dis­suaded by the pre-election vio­lence that has marred the tran­sition to a multiracial govern­ment, he said. 
"We have to put violence in perspective," Brown said, not­ing that South Africa is a large country that has seen violence only in some areas. He pre­dicted South Africa will weath­er the violence and create a sound investment climate. 
After weeks of violence in the Natal black homeland that killed more than 400 blacks since the beginning of the year, 


~ Interested in the 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
[!) 
Guard · Sold( ·.· . aekect the sta· tion's office and set it ablaze. 
In December, troops de~ stroyed the offices of Free Wave Radio, the Central African nation's only other private station. 
· · · in 

Johannesburg saw two car bomb attacks on Sunday and Monday -the worst such bombings ever in that area. 
"We deplore the violence. It is a tragedy," Brown said. He added, however, "We've got a lot of violence in our society, too." 
He pledged help for U.S. busi­ness people to get involved in South Africa and said the administration will work to re­duce trade barriers, match U.S. and South African companies 
r~ht1cis·the bravery of the ·· htdividU~journalist." 
Nigeria's feisty press has survived numerous crack­downs. Getting jailed is a job hazard, and journalists joke that you are not a real reporterl,lntil you have spent time behfud bars. · latest leader, Gen. 
a, had been in weeks in Jan­
!"''""'"'-"···'-''"" troops raided Tell, the West ..~.........'s most critical ular magazine. 50,000 copies which included · "The Return Of acha Bares His 
Abacha's gov­three maga· .,...,_.. "•rlit·o.,.., for four days for 
· interview with a r..-........u,,,. :~.~a.u~u~a minister who ~~.;~;;u!lt!u .,..,.....,,..u ofbacktrack· 
for a return to 
governments use li· censing to control and intimi­date the media. 
that can work together, and de­velop a trade strategy to in­crease purchase of U.S. goods in South Africa. 
Many U.S. companies stayed away from South Africa during the years when its apartheid policies drew increasing inter­national criticism. 
Others abided by the so­called Sullivan principles in which they agreed to lobby the government to end apartheid and promoted integration and advancement of blacks in their businesses. 


STUDENTS! 
Shopping for a new car for after graduation? Then look at this! 
• 
Rates as /ow as 6.25% APR for a new car and 7.25% APR for a used car. 

• 
Up to 5 years to repay and deferred payments until September, 1994. 

• 
$100 CASH BONUS when your loan is disbursed. 


Students with good credit or no credit qualify, no co-signer needed. Bring your letter of employment. 
'/) 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Independent of the University of Notre Dome 





BUSINESS 
Tuesday, April 26, 1994 
BUSINESS FORUM 
Values required for classroom, boardroom 
A recent campus conference examining the decline in social responsibility by corporations suggested that global competi· tive pressures are challenging the values of the "good" corpo­ration. (One prevailing recom­mendation presented by sever­al speakers was to integrate spiritual values into corpo­rate decision-making.) 
Recent Observer columns by Ann Blum and Lara Richards suggest that com­petitive pressures may also be challenging the val­ues of the "good" student. While the majority of the cheaters they described may be responding to the competitive pressures they see in the class­room, the resulting loss of integrity may destroy one of the major values they can bring to work, since dishonesty is the #1 concern of corporate CEOs. 
M. L. McBee in "New Directions in Higher Education: Rethinking College Responsibilities for Values" (1980) suggests a need for a critical review of the values being communicated implicit­ly in the college classroom and in the university as a whole. He suggested the following framework and series of questions to be used as a moral inventory for our institutions' implicit behavior. 

1. 
The College Culture. What are the reili beliefs, norms, expectations, and values of our institution that govern behavior? What does it communicate by its actions? What behaviors are rewarded-and punished? What values are suggested in its bud­gets, in its decision making? Does the college seek objective feedback even if it may be critical or does it only listen to glowing approvals? 

2. 
Peer Culture. What values are represented by dominant cliques in each of the residence halls? Are the students' belief systems formed by earlier influences tested, rejected, or extended? What res­idential hall policies instill or perpetuate those val­ues or norms? How do various "groups" relate to one another across the campuses? 

3. 
Formal School Activities. What values are conveyed in athletic contests? What discrimination occurs against low profit return sports and against women in sports as participants and as coaches? 

4. 
The Learning Environment. Are students taught to think or take dictation? Are they active learners or passive recorders? Do students devel­op learning strategies to maximize their grades as a corollary to basic economic principles? 

5. 
Quality Control. What efforts are made to minimize cheating and encourage honesty? Is cheating rationalized by cliches such as "every­body does it" and "it's the pressure"? 

6. 
The Research Environment. Does the college's search for research funds and peer credibility shift its priority to publishing? Does the moral develop­ment of its students become a forgotten value? 


These are just some of the questions that we in the Notre Dame -Saint Mary's community need to ask ourselves to better understand why flagrant cheating is still a problem. Students also need to ask themselves what they want from an education at ND/SMC. Is there something, a special value, afforded by an education from here? If so, what choice can individuals make to insure that they are working toward that goal, such as partici­pating in community service, avoiding illegal activ­ities, and not cheating? The temptations to lose one's integrity don't end at graduation. Practice in the classroom can bolster one's ability to fight dis­honesty in the marketplace. Since we are in Catholic institutions, we all might begin by heed­ing the words offered to corporations, integrate spiritual values into our decision making. 
Jack Ruhe is an Associate Professor of Business Administration at Saint Mary's College. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 
page 9 



U.S. fails to win G-7 concessions 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The world's major industrial pow­ers are expressing widespread opti­mism about global economic prospects this year but U.S. officials concede that they failed to win any new commitments from Japan and Germany to make the hope of better times more of a reality. 
Finance officials of the so-called Group of Seven -the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Canada and Italy -said they believed the world economy was heading for its best performance in five years despite such threats as rising interest rates and growing trade imbalances. 
"We thought, on the whole, things were very much better than they were 12 months ago. We were quite optimistic about the outlook," British Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke told reporters Sunday after five hours of closed­door meetings. 
In support of Clarke's views, the British government reported today that Britain's economy grew 2.6 per­cent in the 12 months ending in March, which Clarke called "very good" news and right in line with the government's expectations. 
The Group of Seven meetings were held in advance of today's start of the annual spring meetings of the 178-nation World Bank and its sister lending organization, the World Bank. 
One of the policy committees for the IMF, the Group of 10, reported today that it believed recent turmoil in world financial markets had not revealed any basic underlying prob­lems in the functioning of those mar­kets. However, the finance ministers said the use of exotic new financial instruments such as derivatives bore close monitoring. 
Canadian Finance Minister Paul Martin said Sunday the Group of Seven officials believed that current economic fundamentals were "very, very good" and would lead to strong growth this year. 
While also expressing optimism, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen warned that countries such as Japan and Germany still needed to do more to lift their nations out of steep recessions. 
"I've been around long enough to know that some of the optimism I heard today can fade -and fade fast -unless it is based on credible plans," Bentsen told reporters Sunday night. "We can't wish growth to happen. We have to make it happen." 
The United States would like to see faster interest-rate reductions in Germany and a bigger government stimulus package in Japan, including more permanent consumer tax cuts. 

Study evaluates effects of job training on welfare 
By JENNIFER DIXON 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Government training programs are moving limited numbers of single mothers off welfare and into jobs, and much more would need to be done to achieve President Clinton's "two years and out" reform propos­al, according to a federal study Monday. 
The report, by the National Commission for Employment Policy, said federal employment and train­ing programs must be significantly expanded and upgraded if Clinton's plan to require welfare recipients to find a job within two years is to suc­ceed. 
The commission, an independent federal agency that advises the pres­ident and Congress on employment issues, also said that a two-year limit on welfare benefits will only work iftraining and employment are tailored to each parent's individual needs. And support services, such as transportation and child care, must be made available. 
"There is no silver bullet to end welfare dependency," said Commission Chairman Anthony Carnevale. 
"The good news is that established government-sponsored employment and training programs can move welfare recipients into the work­place and beyond poverty under a 'two and out' plan," Carnevale said. "However, we must focus much more attention on the quality and kind of services offered." 
A Clinton administration task force has drafted a plan to limit welfare benefits to two years, followed by mandatory work for participants unable to find a job on their own. 
The cost of paying for those jobs and expanding education, training and child-care for the youngest of the 5 million families now on AFDC is expected to total $10 billion to $13 billion over the first five years, and from $30 billion to $40 billion over 10 years. 
The administration, however, has yet to decide how to pay for its plan. 
The commission's study tracked 6,467 women on Aid to Families with Dependent Children who enrolled in training and employment services under the federal Job Training and Partnership Act in 1986. 
None had worked for at least a year before beginning classroom study or on-the-job training with JPTA. After participating in JPTA, for roughly four to six months, three-fourths of the women were placed in a job. 
Half of those women were employed during the first year after JPTA and just under half were employed in their second year. 
Sixteen percent had moved out of poverty in their first year after com­pleting JPTA and 22 percent were above poverty in their second year. 
The women all volunteered for JPTA, and appear to be a select group motivated to work, the study said. 
In contrast, fewer than 20 percent of AFDC recipients who had not been employed in the previous year were similarly motivated and look­ing for work, the study said, citing Census Bureau data. 
Carnevale said the ultimate goal of training programs like JPT A must be to place people in good jobs that offer a chance at economic self-suffi­ciency. 
According to the commission's study, parents who received inten­sive services, such as occupational classroom training and on-the-job training, were more likely to move out of poverty than those who received minimal services, such as help finding a job. 
About one-third of parents on wel­fare are functionally illiterate and half are high-school dropouts, Carnevale said. 
But officials from both Japan and Germany, the world's second-and third-largest economies after the United States, argued that they have already done a lot and cannot go further without fueling inflationary pressures. 
Japanese Finance Minister Hirohisa Fujii, expected to continue in that post under the new prime minister, Tsutoma Hata, said Japan will continue seeking to spur domes­tic growth as a way of reducing its record trade surpluses. But he said other nations had to be more patient in looking for results. 
While IMF economists are fore­casting that the global economy in 1994 should turn in its best perfor­mance in five years, that is due pri­marily to unexpectedly strong growth in the United States. The IMF has cut its growth forecasts for both Japan and Germany due to the deep recessions in those countries. 
One of the issues discussed was the impact of the rapid rise in long­term interest rates since early February when the U.S. Federal Reserve began tightening credit in the face of unexpectedly strong growth in the United States. 
In a chairman's statement summa­rizing the discussions that was clear­ly aimed at nervous financial mar­kets, Bentsen said, "The bottom line was: We agreed the fundamentals are good, and we reiterated that inflation remains under control." 
yson opens new factory 
in Indiana 
By THOMAS WYMAN Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Tyson Foods Inc., best known for chicken products, is expanding its Mexican foods line with the develop­ment of a $44 million plant that could bring 700 new jobs to east central Indiana. 
The plant in Portland, a Jay County city halfway between Richmond and Fort Wayne, will produce tortillas, corn chips and taco shells, said Tyson president Evan Bayh and chief execu­tive officer Leland Tollett. 


The food processor's Mexican line, under the brand name Mexican Original, has grown from a $7 mil­lion business in 1983 to $125 million in sales last year, Tollett said. 
Most of the sales are to restau­rants, but the company also markets a retail line. 
Springdale, Ark.-based Tyson, which operates facilities in 17 states, has been unable to meet demand for the Mexican products from plants in Arkansas and North Carolina, Tollett said. 
Tyson is confident the nation's taste for Mexican-style food won't prove to be a passing fancy, he said. "We don't look at this as a fad at all," he said. "It's a very viable part of the American diet." 
Gov. Evan Bayh, who Qrought Tollett to his office to announce the new plant, said an independent" com­pany that supplies Tyson is also con­sidering opening an operation in Indiana. Bayh did not identify the company.

1/1194 2/1/94 3/1/94 4/1/94 511/94 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... Sarah Doran Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ....... , ................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayrer Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott MendenhaU Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ...................................•. Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nO£ necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to aU readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@grumpy.helios.nd.edu 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
goes




Darners: It's time to say no 
Dear Editor: 
Patty O'Hara strikes again ... put yet another notch in her large belt of fallen dorms that has come to represent all that is wrong with the adminis­tration-student relationship. Joining the ranks of recent fall­en brethren Pangborn and Cavanaugh is Grace Hall. 
The residents of Grace Hall received notice from the Vice President for Student Affairs on April 20 that the place that they call home will soon be closed, falling victim to "a long-range plan for renovation of existing facilities on campus." Briefly, the administration wants to, in two years, close both the ad­ministration building and Grace Hall, the former for renovation and the latter to make room for office space (both temporary and permanent) that will be lost in the remodeling of the admin­istration building. 
The freshman from the 1993­94 year, along with the classes from the following two years and incoming freshmen will then be moved to two new res­idence halls on South Quad which will house 275 men each. 
All of this comes at a time when Grace Hall is finally establishing a sense of identity and unity. In addition, the hall has just this year been itself re­modeled. An average observer can see that this move epito­mizes poor management. Granted, students are not told the true motivational reasons for moves such as this. but one would have significant trouble in justifying what structurally will have to amount to a "gut-
DOONESBURY 
MR. 8/JTT5 HM 7AJ<CN H/!3 //AU6HT/3R. TO UJORK.. 
., ANO/A/6 TURN 
OUT620Mlti-ION 
A PAY-JU5TIN 
TH60N& PlANT/ 
~~~~.............. 
ting" of an eleven-story build­ing and a consequent upheaval and disruption of good students lives. 
With an exodus to south quad, congestion would become a problem as would the resultant lopsided male to female ratio on Mod quad (where Grace presently stands). Costs would be exorbitant and the plan would be grotesquely complex. 
All this in a dorm in which the university just spent five figures to have refurbished and all for the sake of the conve­nience and good parking of administration officials. 
At Notre Dame, the student receives education in the class­room, but equally as valuable is the education received in the dormitories. To disrupt that social education in the middle, to change what the student is used to, is as detrimental to the psyche as changing professors for a class in the middle of the semester. 
Notre Dame "family" is a buz­zword the administration loves to use, and they claim that the communal living in residence halls fosters that. If this is true, then why do they keep dispers­ing the family and disrupting their continuum? For the sake of their wishes and their needs, for plans that are questionable at best-not the needs of the students, but for the utility of the bureaucracy. The Notre Dame family is dysfunctional and our "parents" don't listen. 
This university teaches Christian values. A very ad­mirable Christian value is to stand for what you believe. 
When it comes to the oppres­sion here, many choose to turn . fuiancial need. 
away and casually throw their scholarship is uniquehands in the air, denying that ' neca.use it is· the first and only
anything will ever change. 
initiated, student­

Apathy is an easy thing to ex­
.ship J\fe'! eoor4inated, and student­
perience when one is continu­
Suzy' FrYl:fL funded scholarship at the 
ally frustrated by an unsympa­. . · .· '"· University of Notre Dame: The thetic establishment that only 
UPJ~erclassnru~n and facut-r;·:;llipp-Beeler Freshmen listens when purse strings are will · · , Colleen Hipp ··Memorial Scholarship has pulled and any institution of 
andMeghan Beeler, twomem~ alr~ady been awarded to two change is quickly buried in a 
bers of the Notre Damewo · ~..,._.... --------­quagmire of red tape to be 
en:~. swim ~~amt we,r(:l ~~~ ()ll"lf: "studied" (and subsequently 
.Jan. ~4•. '1992 when tlie team< 'The Hipp-Beelerbus returning from a meet in
buried) by a committee. 
Freshmen

Evans~on gverturnednear
We, as students of a university 
campM. · 'i7iMH "' Memorial scholarship is
which purports to teach these In. an· attempt to"help relieve · b · · Christian values. should stand tbe pain of this tragedy and to un1que ecause It IS the up for what we believe, no mat­
honor the lives of these two firstand only student-ini­
ter what the possibility for freshtnen, the student body · 
change is. Not many would 
has es~~blished an endowment . ttated, student-coordi­deny that oppression against 
in both their names. The Hipp· ···· nated, and student-fund­the undergraduates exists, not 
Beeler Freshmen Memorial many could say that something 
scholarsllip was established in ed scholarship at the will definitely be done by the 
memory of Colleen and University of Notre administration to change it, but 
Meghan with the intent to Dame.' certainly nothing will ever hap­
memorialize ·the lives of all 

pen if we stand idly by while the Dome's iron fist slowly tightens its strangling grip. 
To let them take advantage of our perceived lack of concern is to violate the standards the uni­versity espouses and to deny our worth as human beings. There is nothing I can do to save Grace, or Cavanaugh, but until I say "NO MORE", until we 
students who pass away dur· ing their,\tyears at.. the University. ·.. 
.Students are nominated for the award by their Freshman Writing Program instructors, who choose each candidate on the basis ofhis or her.charac­ter: an ability to clearly com~ munic~te his or h~~ ideas, an ability to accept and· synthe· size the criticism of others.• a displayed. sense of self·confi~w; 
members of the Class of 1996, 
Lou Vricella and Dave Brower. 
both of Keenan Hall. The 
scholarship will be awarded 
each spring semester to two 
freshmen as a gesture of sup­
port· and remembrance, origi­
nated by the friends and class­.mates of Meghan and Colleen. 
Again, I would like to con­
gratulate and recognize Suzy 
and Karla on their selection ·to 
dence, and an embodiment of' receive this great honor.
all say "NO MORE", we will the N()tre Dame spirit. 
never know who will be the ···These candidates are stu;;'
next victim-the next notch in dents who-through a commit···the belt. 
mentto a di~ciplin~xempli· ' ..·;'I'l\iiE MICHELLE NASSER fy the work of Meghan and .... COLLEEN KNIGHT 
CHAD SMITH 
ScholarshipJunior 

Grace Hall 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
RR?T, 7H6Y /Jtt./V#?. Pu:A'3UR&, 51/U A veRY FVPULAR PROaJC.T/ 
FACT15, 06AI<&TTES AR&­
FA5T.1 5UON{}~Y, A'30URf3)(CC­JW{}tu/TH6aJOREA50N1 
U77~ 71JLI? c:oN5I<£93 UN{}&R. 
OATH, aJRPROf}f)c;T 15 A? 
5AF6 A~ A T/QINK/1# 
''Alittle sincerity is a dangerous thing, and a great deal of it is absolutely fatal." 
-Oscar Wilde 

......
-----------------------~----------~--------­

ACC~NT 
Tuesday, April26, 1994 page 11 
Foulois Squadron highlights national convention 
By KATE WIDASIN the position in the fall. They extensive efforts to publicize Accent Wrirer earned their award through squadron events such as 
outstanding use of local con­POW/MIA Awareness Week 
The Benjamin D. Foulois tacts, such as WNDU and The and the children's field day. Squadron represented Notre Observer, and for their imple­Also, Captain Alan Andrysiak Dame well at the annual mentation of an electronic mail was named the most outstand­Arnold Air Society national system for the squadron. ing advisor in the area. convention as it came away with several national and area Arnold Air Society is a select This semester the Foulois awards. professional and service squadron worked two week­
organization within Air Force ends for Christmas in April. 
Sophomore Seth Keene, this ROTC. Members of the Foulois Members also introduced their semester's commander, won Squadron from Notre Dame own patriotism presentation to the Nichols award for the most traveled to Scottsdale, Arizona the children at Jefferson outstanding sophomore in the over Easter Break to take part Elementary School in South country. Keene's recognition in the annual convention. Bend. They did a color guard was for his outstanding leader­The weekend was filled with demonstration, talked to the ship and service contributions business meetings, workshops, children about patriotism and to the squadron and the military functions, and enter­the flag, and taught them how community. As a member of tainment. Members participat­to properly fold the American the head staff and as this ed in making decisions for the flag. semester's commander, Keene entire society, learning innova­has been active in organizing tive ways to run their Much time was also spent meetings, planning projects squadron, finding new service raising money for the fall pro­around the community, and projects to serve the com­jects, such as Habitat for handling paper work. munity, and meeting high­Humanity and the annual chil­
ranking Air Force officers and dren's field day. The 
Sophomores Joseph Roos fellow cadets. squadron's fund-raisers and Elizabeth Murchison, who included concessions stands at both work in public affairs, The Foulois squadron won the Flying' Irish basketball were also named the best in the Maryland Cup, the award tournament, an NCAA tourna­the nation. Murchison was the for the best large squadron in ment pool, a build-a-thon, and squadron's public affairs offi­the Midwest region. Keene Fox 3, Notre Dame's version of cer last spring, and Roos held said, "this is the award we are Gotcha. 



The Charlatans get dirty 
-

By ROB ADAMS structure as well as Burgess Music Criric vocal strengths. When he sings couplets like, "We've been After quietly dropping the UK together for now and forever/1 from the end of their band's know your university," it's name, the Charlatans have re­impossible to get over why it turned for their third album in sounds so good, especially as many even-numbered years. when Burgess stretches "oni­Oh yeah, and it's great. versity" out to its full five sylla-
Up To Our Hips sees the bles. · Charlatans pursuing the sensu­The strongest track on Up To ous energy that first lit up rock­Our Hips is the undeniably n-roll in the 1950's... and funky "Jesus Hairdo," a decla­caused TV programmers to ration and description of televi­keep the cameras above the sion's omnipotence. The bluesy band members' hips. Their feel of the song comes from sound, typically drenched with Mark Collins' slide guitar and organ as a result of founder Burgess seems completely Rob Collins' infatuation with devoid of all worries through the instrument, has become a his ecstatic vocal stylings. bit more Earth-y and less organ-ic; It shows the Slight touches on the cymbals Charlatans at their most raw. and swift taps at bass open .. 
"Patrol," leaving no clue as to 
With their 1990 debut, Some where the song may go. The Friendly, their Traffic-esque guitar takes the mood away sound was revered as the from both bass and drums as Manchester Revolution was at Burgess begins his vocals. its height; the album went gold Check out Burgess as he mum­in the UK in less than 48 hours. bles "Mess up my mind" and Tim Burgess was that guy in repeats it three times; his the field of flowers with his arrangements are key to The hands on his head and that Charlatans' fantastic music. pudding bowl haircut. Eventually the guitar gets a 
In 1992, Between lOth and breather and leaves Burgess 11th was released, further es­alone with the bass and tablishing the band's apparent drums ... and he takes the fore­but unexplained fetish for num­front completely. bers; it was a beacon of psyche­Up To Our Hips is a release delic pop that is unparalleled in that, when playing, I fear the its dynamic structure and album) says, "Everyone's Flows," proves to be an experi­together on this album. I don't end of the CD... that's how good melody arrangement. Tim always said we're a strong live ment which was well-worth at­see the point in being proud of it is. Burgess hums slither in Burgess, despite mixed reviews band, and we wanted to sound tempting; its haunting melody is tossing songs off. As long as it and out of soundwaves, and lackluster sales of their that good on the record. We let equipped. with driving bass, but sounds good, who cares how Brookes' drums seem to be second album, became "Jordan ourselves go a bit." it is the psychedelic guitar licks long it took?" tighter and louder making them Knight on acid": a puzzling sex Joining the effervescent that dominate this enigmatic impossible to overlook, and Rob symbol in the UK, unable to Burgess in the Charlatans are tour de force. "Come In Number 21" begins Collins' organ splashes-albeit fully shake off the ghosts of that Martin Blunt Qn bass, Mark Another bold but successful the album and is a surreal mas­not as utilized-are still Manchester Revolution which Collins on guitar, Rob Collins on move is the mellow track, terpiece. The atmosphere of absolutely mandatory for the was by then dead. organ, and Jon Brookes on "Autograph." With acoustic the song can best be described Charlatans' sound. 
drums. guitar strumming and hand­as spicy, as Rob Collins pro­Now in 1994, The Charlatans claps clearly audible, the bass vides dashes of organ, which 
Charlatans
"allow" more guitar and bass in "Can't Get Out of Bed," the loosens and then wraps itself when combined with the slow, their songs; they don't com­band's first single from Up To around the groove like some ethereal groove and fabulous to Our Hipspletely dismiss Rob Collins and Our Hips, is nothing like the sort of automatic lasso. chorus rhythm, create a virtual his organ, it just never domi­band has ever done. Wearing "It takes us quite a long feast for the ears. gga~s. Banquet) nates the way that it did on past obvious influences from time," says Burgess on writing One extremely amazing but 
.** 1/2
hits "The Only One I Know" and Motown on their sleeves, songs. "We have to wait for an barely noticeable quality of the "Weirdo." Burgess vocals are breathlessly idea, and then we re-structure Charlatans' music is their abili­tW±~~ · 
Of their new sound, singer dominating; the song begins it and re-record stuff. It feels ty to make words that don't t and 1/2 stars Tim Burgess (who has not yet and ends at his leisure. like the good songs and the rhyme, seem as if they do been given an identity for this An instrumental track, "Feel good performances finally came rhyme, a credit to their song 


---~--------­
page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 26, 1994 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES 
Raffle to benefit Clothe-A-Child. Win Litho signed by all NO Heisman or Football signed by all NO Heis. or 2 94TIX NDIBYU or 2 94TIX & trip to ND/NoWest Limited # tickets-Drawing July 15 Send $10, name,address,phone to Christ Child Society, 16122 Baywood Ln., Granger, IN 46530 
WASHINGTON D.C. CLUB 
TRUCK TO D.C. PICK-UP 
THURSDAY MAY 5 AND 
FRIDAY, MAY 6 FROM 12 TO 5 
STEPAN AND LYONS B-BALL 
COURTS. QUESTIONS CALL 
ROBX1624 
***GOLFERS... 
KEENAN GOLF SCRAM­BLE 
Shotgun start Fri. April 29th at 9am, $8.50 per player, Prizes for 1st, 2nd, 3rd, Longest Drive, & Closest-to-Pin. CALL x3342 or x3273 
$$ FOR BOOKS @ PANDORA'S 
everyday but sunday until 5:30pm 
233-2342 NO ave & Howard 
Attention graduating seniors whose parent and grandparent are Notre Dame alums: The Notre Dame Publications office needs to take photos of multigenerational alum family members during Commencement weekend. The photos are to be used in an upcom­ing University publication. Please call Marilyn or Paul at 631-5337. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST-my precious gold loop ear­ring somewhere between Lewis & Cushing, or Cushing & 02, or 02 & Lewis on Sat nile (4/16). SENTI­MENTAL VALUE-PLEASE. RETURN ASAP. x3766. --thanks 
CASH REWARD! '92 alum looking to recover "losr cellular phone missing from car parked behind Grace Hall late Sat. night. Call291-3018 ask for Roy 
LOST: 
Green Columbia Jacket (outer shell) prob in SOH. Please help! call Brian at x1130 
LOST!! 
Gold chain with celtic cross by 
Stepan Courts week of 4/11. Call 
Rob at 4-2159. 
GE stereo found. Call273-1932 
Did you accidentally take a 
maroon-red Eddie Bauer Windfoil 
jacket on Thursday night between 
12 and 1 :30 am? If so, please 
return it to me. 
Please call Mike at 4-1139. 
No questions asked. 
LOST-Dark green, suede back­pack in front of Pangborn on Sat. (23). II contains important notes lor finals. Please call Jenna at x2349 if found. No questions asked! !I 
MISSING: A Cotton Bowl jacket with three keys and IDs. Jt was last seen on Sun. the 24th at 12 noon in PE's 24 hr. lounge. If you know of its whereabouts please contact Jeanne at x3465 or Michelle at x4376. 
Lost: Ashley Scott black dress coat 
from Grace formal at Union Station 
on 4/08. I have the wrong one, so 
please check yours. Liz x1316 
Lost: 
Watch. 
Brown corded leather band. 
Compass housing. 
If found call 4-3233 and ask for 
Dav. 

LOST: LADY'S BLACK LEATHER PURSE WITH GOLD TRIM ON SATURDAY NIGHT AT WASHING­TON HALL. REWARD. 
CALL 631-6557. 
Lost-Tl81 Calculator Lost in Fitzpatrick on Monday night. If found , please call Vince at x1871. Reward. 
Lost-Tl81 Calculator on Monday night in Fitzpatrick. If found, please call Vince at x1871. 
LOST: SMALL BLACK OLYMPUS CAMERA AT PIGTOSTAL ON 4/23. PLEASE BE KIND & RETURN IT. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CALL ANNE 284-5212. 

WANTED 

CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up to $2000+/mo. on cruise ships or land-tour companies. World travel. Summer & full-time employment available. No exp necessary. For info call 1-206-634-0468 ex1. C5584 
need graduation tickets bad call Harry 233-5130 
SUMMER/PERMANENT FULL TIME $300/WEEK. WORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL AND CON­SUMER RIGHTS. WK HAS 1:30-10:30 M-F. FOR INTERVIEW CALL 232-7905 
On and off campus newspaper car­riers, branch managers, sales per­sonnel needed for fall 94 semester. Contact City News Service Inc., 232-3205 or 288-9361 for informa­tion or application. 
Off-campus non-seniors! I'm in need of place for friends graduation weekend and will sublease. Does lease require you to pay entire month of May? If so, do you want to make some quick cash$? Call Chad 4X1595. 
The Center for Social Concerns seeks a graduate student to coordi­nate the Washington Seminar for the nex1 academic year. Coordinator oversees a one-credit course centering on experiential learning in Washington D.C. over the fall and spring breaks. Teaching or related experience and familiarity with Washington pre­ferred. Contact Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293. 
WANTED GRE REVIEW BOOKS FOR BIOLOGY: #42289 
I need a ride to Mn./ St Paul area after graduation. Will share gas, dri­ving, tolls. Call Me! Julie x4276 
GOING HOME TO KS? We have room in a U-Haul and will take your stuff for a SMALL fee. Call soon­X1592 or X4902 
ALASKA FISHERIES SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. EARN UP TO $15,000 THIS SUMMER IN CAN­NERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. NO EXPER. NEC­ESSARY. ROOM/BOARD TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUARAN­TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 ex1 A29. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Earn up to $8,000+ in two months. Room & Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary! Call (206)545-4155 ext A5584 
$750/wk. Alaska fisheries this sum­
mer. Maritime Services 1-208-860­
0219 
Want to buy 386 or 486 computer & peripherals. Can wait until after exams. Bob or Bill 
236-8334. 
SUMMER NANNY for ND family on Chicago N. Shore. Live-in/out. End MAY -AUG. Exper w/ newborn &tod­dler a plus. lnclds NJ beach vaca­tion w/ family. call708-433-1628 Want a CD-Boom Box, call Ashwin at 4-3440 
EXCITING SUMMER OPPORTU­NITY FOR SMC/ND STUDENT. HELP FOR PROFESSIONAL FAM­ILY ON DIAMOND LAKE-JUNE 15-AUG. 15. APPROX. $1000/MO. 
234-1946. 


FOR RENT 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF CAMPUS. 272-0615 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ND/SMC EVENTS (219)291-7153 
COLLEGE PARK 
CONDOMINIUMS -1/4 mile from library -New appliances -2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms -Washer & Dryer units -Large closets -Covered parking -Security System -Large balconies ----Units now available­
$660 per month ..... Going Quicklyll 
******..CALL: 272..0691_.......... 
Subleaser needed! Coli. Park Apt. available for sum­mer. $220/mo. Call 273-6117 
Are you staying for summer school? Do you need a place to live? We are subletting our 2 Bedroom gas apartment at Indian Springs!! I It is economical, and spacious!! I Call Robin (4-1337) or Jackie (4­1333) for more details! 
BULLA ROAD 3 BDRM. WALK TO CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW 272-6306 
1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. NEAR ND. STARTING AT $250. MO. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 
FURNISHED APARTMENT FOR RENT -ONE PERSON NEEDED, ALL UTILITIES PAID, VERY CLEAN! SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD, APARTMENT HAS OWN ENTRANCE. 232-0355 
FOR LEASE 2 Bdrm 1 Bath House­Fum. Full bsmt & Garage -3 miles from campus in Riverpark neighbor­
.hood. Calll616)756-9675 for info. 
Turtle Creek Townhouse available for summer. Call 273-5883 for more information. 
Looking for student tenants Near ND -clean, furnished apart­ment houses: 755 South Bend Ave (1 blk west of Notre Dame Ave) 1 bdrm-240, effeciency-215; 607 E. Corby (3 blocks west of Notre Dame Ave) 2bdrm $330, 1-bdrm $260; 519 E. Corby-2bdrm $280+heat drive by first, call for appointment, deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 

FOR SALE 
TWIN BED FOR SALE Call Tracy 273-6401 
FURNITURE FOR SALE: 
Two dressers in good condition. 
Call 288-5205. 
FURNITURE FOR SALE ­CALL 273-6032. 
Furniture for Sale couch, twin bed, dresser & more Free Summer Storage call4-4463 
Three single lofts, getting bunks so must sell. $40 apiece OBO. One year old, built by carpentar Dad! I call x11 01 ask for Sean 
'86 HONDA CRX FOR SALE Graduating-Must sell! 
• 
Great looking, blue, 2 door • 5-Spd, 90k miles, reliable 

• 
$3,500 or best offer Call Scott 6343984 


10 SPEED BIKE.272-6306 
FOR SALE -Two beds 
1 twin & 1 double Very Cheap Call: 273-3932 
83 Nissan Sentra New starter break clutch exh 4 tires runs great 271­9714, 631-5613 
For Sale: Full couch, lamp, and chair Call 273-5989 
2 couches -$75ea./OBO 256-6604 
College Park Condos 2BR, 2 Bath, w/ appliances $59,900. Send info to 
P.O. Box 4075, South Bend, IN 46634 
For Sale: U-shaped coach, tan chair, entertainment center, gas grill, oak table and chairs, cordless phone, lamp and more. Perfect for OC living. Call 273-6553. For Sale: brand new bed and oak desk. Call 273-3920 and ask for Keith. 
Airline tix Fe. RT from S Bend to All. $140. Good til Aug 94. 271-7280. Lve msg. 
1991 lsuzu Trooper II (silver) 30K; 4WD; AM/FM-Cass.; A/C excellent condition! I MUST SELLIII $9400 call232-4736 
'91 Red Mere Capri Convertible 34K, AM/FM Cassette, AC, Power Locks, $8500. Call 233-5773. 
LOFT & FRIDGE FOR SALE!! CALL LIZ X1912 with b.o. 
87 Red Camaro Lt, VB, loaded, 45k miles, 1 owner, immaculate. $6700. 684-0957 
DOUBLE LOFT $75 CALLx2485 
WATERBED FOR SALE Queen size for $125 Originally $250 small DESK also 
Dave 273-5850 
Wooden bedside cabinet with one drawer and shelf space for books. Excellent condition and perfect for either off-campus or in the dorm­Great size. Call 273-6548. · 
FOR SALE-1 COUCH, 1 DESK LIKE NEW, BARGAIN PRICES. 
MARC 277-6130 
MUST SELLI! BEST OFFER II IBM Compatible 286AT Computer with: 
Full Color Monitor 
40 meg hard drive 
dual floppy (5 1/4 and 3 1/2) 
enhanced keyboard 
Mouse Call Caroline at x4702 
Furniture for sale: dresser, desk, curtains, bar stools, etc. Call 273-8562 

TICKETS 
I need 2 graduation tickets. My grandparents are coming to NO from LA for the first time. Call Elisa at 272-8563. 
I need ex1ra graduation tickets ­please call Brian at 4-4204 
Help! I need graduation tickets. Please call Tracy-2377 
Help! I need graduation tickets. Please call Mike-1651 
I need 2 grad. tickets. If you have extra please call -Anne x3358 
Sell me your ticket I need one graduation ticket. Will pay$$1 Call Matt 273-8859 
HELP! I I need extra grad. tix call PIER 273-4909 
I need graduation tickets ... please call Joe@ 237-0750 we'll talk Help!!! Need extra graduation tix 
for family. Call Sean @273-3920. 
ND grad wants to see her l'il bro graduate but needs ticket! Call Jon@x3054 to help! 
Need 3 or ANY EXTRA GRAD tixs 
you have Call Shannon 634-2859 
WANTED-3 GRADUATION 
TICKETS. $$$ CALL MARC 
277-6130 
I NEED GRADUATION TIX!!I 
WILL PAY$$$$ 
PLEASE CALL MIKE @259-4986. 

PERSONAL 
FURNITURE FOR SALE: 
Two dressers in good condition. 
Call 288-5205. 
*************KATHARSIS************ 
APRIL 15&16 at CHEERS on 31 in 
Roseland. APRIL 29 at Midway 
Tavern (MARTHA'S). DON'T miss 
out. Fun starts at 1 O.For more 
information on gigs and parties 
call237-9702. Ask for LENNY. 
*************KATHARSIS*'*********** 
ADOPTION -Let us raise your baby as you would -with love, security and smiles. Please call Conni and Mark 1-800-392-0618 
J u N 0 R s 
u SUBMIT PRINTED COPY 
OF RESUME AND DISK 
N TO CAREER & PLACE­
MENT SERVICES FOR 
RESUME BOOKS NOW! 
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. 
R 
s 
DID YOU KNOW the last Observer 
is 4/27? It is not too early to place 
your farewell classifieds to seniors 
& your friends. You can type in 
your ad now until 4/26 between 
Bam to 3pm Mon-Fri. There will ·also be a graduation Observer on 
5/13. Deadline is 5/12. We are on 
the 3rd floor in LaFortune. 
SMEGMARIFF­
IC!!!!!!!!!!I!!!!!I!!!II!!!!I!!!!! 
SABOR LATINO 
Friday May 6, CLUB 23 
Great music, great fun! Come dance all night long. Best release after finals! (also: Wed. May 11, Club 23) 
SABOR LATINO 
I apologize for all the things I've 
done But now I'm underwater and 
I'm drowning-
Prayer to the Blessed Virgin (Never known to fail). Oh, most beautiful flower of MI. Carmel, fruit­ful vine, splendor of Heaven, Blessed Mother of the Son of God, Immaculate Virgin, assist me in my necessity. Oh Star of the Sea, help me and show me here you are my Mother. Oh Holy Mary, Mother of God, Queen of Heaven and Earth. I humbly beseech you from the bot­tom of my heart to succor me in my necessity (make request). There are none that can withstand your power. Oh Mary, conceived wihtout sin, pray for us who have recourse to thee (3 times). Holy Mary, I place this prayer lor your hands (3 times). Say this prayer 3 consecutive days and then you must publish and it will be granted to you. Grateful thanks. 
Thank you Mary and St. Jude. 
Quality Copies, Quickly. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
FURNITURE FOR SALE: 
Two dressers in good condition. 
Call 288-5205. 
J U N 0 R S 
U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY OF RESUME AND DISK 
N TO CAREER & PLACE­MENT SERVICES FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW! 
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. 
R 
s 
•...yeah, that's how Houdini died. Some guy just came up and punched him in the stomach while he wasn't looking." 
HI KATIE!!!! 
I'm living in Chicago this summer and need an APARTMENT and ROOMMATES. If interested, call Tim at 273-5963 
FREE FISHING VACATION 30-yr.-old quadriplegic looking for someone to accompany my parents & me to a nearby cottage in Ml for all or part of July 9-23. Everything provided. Have 16' pontoon boat & looking for fishing companion. CAll 273-0842. 
HI KATIE!!!! 
COLLEGE STUDENTS 
SUMMER WORK Entry level position with an interna­tional corporation, Flexible sched­ule, Start PT or FT now or after finals. Starting at $9.251 Call 287­0424 for more information. Taking applications on campus in LaFortune's Sorin Room (3rd floor), Tuesday 4/26 1 Oam-2pm. 
OO<l THE COPY SHOP OO<l in the LaFortune Student Center EXTENDED FINALS HOURS!!! 
Mon -Thurs 7:30 am -MIDNIGHT 4/29 Friday 7:30 am -MIDNIGHT Saturday 9:00 am -MIDNIGHT Sunday 9:00 am -MIDNIGHT Mon -Thurs 7:30 am -MIDNIGHT Friday 7:30 am • 7:00 pm 
Sat. May 7 Summer Hours Begin!! I 
HI KATIE!! 
FORMAL TOP TEN 
#1 0 I can't believe he called # 9 He wants me to meet his 
family # 8 Hot women in hot dresses # 7 Where the hell is the glass # 6 Pigeon Toe # 5 Did he make the team # 4 Do the Justin, old Kevin, & 
Steve # 3 Do the Scott, new Kevin, Will, 
and Mike # 2 Do the Bob # 1 Women are versatile. 
DID YOU KNOW the last Observer is 4/27? It is not too early to place your farewell classifieds to seniors & your friends. You can type in your ad now until 4/26 between Bam to 3pm Mon-Fri. There will also be a graduation Observer on 5/13. Deadline is 5/12. We are on the 3rd floor in LaFortune. 
way to show up for hall storage, turtle. we don't love you anymore. 
should i change my outfit once more, bean ... would it look BETTER without the necklace ... would you tell me... 
more potatoes, taryn?? 
you can can anne's since they're too mushy for her. 
suz ... we'll have to find some exciting parites nex1 time 
you owe me one, belle 
thanks for the story, bicky. i finally found him. meat. how mortifying 
carson carson bo barson bananna Ianna to farson me my mo marson CARSON! 
you talk entirely too much to strangers 
RED REDWINE 
FRUITION 

Tuesday, April 26, 1994 The Observer • BASEBALL page 13 
Cubs lose again, BoSox blast off to fast start Marlins, Rockies roll 
Associated Press game. Javier Lopez hit a two-run Cincinnati 4, Chicago 3 double off Jeremy Hernandez, who then retired three Anthony Young remained straight batters for his first winless as Tony Fernandez save this season. homered on Randy Myers' first Dave Weathers (3-1) pitched pitch in the ninth and Roberto 7 1-3 strong innings, and GaryKelly hit an RBI single in the Sheffield hit a two-run homer 1Oth Monday night, giving the for the Marlins. Tom Glavine Cincinnati Reds a 4-3 victory (2-2) tied a major-league high over the Chicago Cubs. this season with 11 strikeouts Fernandez's hit was the first but departed after six inningsMyers (0-1) allowed this sea­trailing 3-1. son, and it was the left-ban­Astros Andy Stankiewicz der's first blown save after a hit a three-run homer and club-record 20 straight. Craig Biggio connected for a Myers (0-1) walked Barry two-run homer. Larkin opening the lOth, then let Hal Morris' bunt roll under Rockies 7, Cardinals 6 his glove for an error. Two outs later, Kelly singled home Andres Galarraga and Ellis the winning run, making the Burks each hit their eighthReds 4-0 in extra innings. homers in the fifth inning off Tom Urbani (0-2). Galarraga'sMarlins 4, Braves 3 three-run shot tied the score and Burks put the Rockies Bryan Harvey gave up his ahead with his third consecu­first two runs of the season tive hit. and left in the ninth with an Howard Johnson added his apparent injury but Florida first homer in the first inningheld on to send Atlanta to its for Colorado, which has hit first loss in 11 road games this eight homers in three games. year. Marvin Freeman (2-0) al­Harvey relieved starting the lowed six runs and six hits in ninth and gave up a walk and six innings and struck out five. single. After the trainer visited Darren Holmes finished for his the mound, Harvey left the second save in five chances.  
~1!Q Jcm~ rn~~~lh. Opening­April28 (Weather Permitting) HOURS 11:00 AM-6:00 PM 631-7645  

By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Red Sox fans have seen it all before. Their team gets off to a great start, then falls apart. But players say this year's club is different, and the numbers so far back them up. 
After 18 games, Boston led the American League with a 13-5 record that included six straight wins heading into Monday night's game at Seattle. The Red Sox completed a 7-2 homestand on Sunday. 
Last year, the Red Sox were 11-7 at the same point and the early surprise of the old AL East. But hitting problems, weak defense and a lack of speed eventually relegated Boston to a second straight sub-.500 season. 
With a ninth of the season having been played, there are some big differences between the 1993 and 1994 Red Sox: 
-This year's club had 25 homers in 18 games, compared to 10 last year. 
-The 1994 Red Sox had stolen 14 bases through Sun­
day, more than double the 1993 total of six at the same point. 
-This year the team batting average was .291 after 18 games, compared to .262 last year. 
-The 1994 Red Sox are win­ning despite mediocre starting pitching. The staff ERA was 
5.05 after 18 games this sea­son, compared to 3.32 last sea­son. 
"Last year, we started out 11­3 and we kind of surprised our­selves," said Mo Vaughn, hit­ting .386 in his first 18 games. "I think there's a different atti­tude with this team this year. I think we have a lot more expe­rience and we know we can win." 
Most of Boston's success so far this year has come at Fen­way Park, where the team has played 12 of its 18 games. The Red Sox, now on a seven-game West Coast road trip, went 2-6 on their first western swing last season. 
But players argue the 1994 team is more versatile, and bet­ter because it has pitcher Aaron Sele and infielder Tim Naehring from the start of the year. 
"We're playing aggressive baseball that spills over to ev­eryone," outfielder Mike Greenwell said. "We're taking the extra base. Sometimes you can die doing that, but we're going to do it anyway." 
Billy Hatcher stole home to tie a game in the seventh inning last week and Otis Nixon, signed as a free agent in De­cember, has four stolen bases and five bunt hits. Even the plodding Scott Cooper took an extra base on a sloppy outfield play last week to start a ninth­inning rally. 
Naehring, whose major­league career has been limited by injuries to 155 games in the previous four seasons, is healthy this year and batting .379. 
He also had four homers, nearly matching his previous career total of six. 
Sele, who went 7-2 as a rookie last year after being called up in June when Roger Clemens went on the disabled list with a groin injury, is 2-0 with a 2.81 ERA this season despite control problems. 

Associated PI8SS file photo Roger Clemens has been looking like the Rocket of old, as he and the Red Sox have gotten out off the gate fast with a 13-5 entering yesterday's game at Seattle. 
The fall1994 MCAT is in AUGUST 
H 0 0 R A V •' 
Don •t be taken by surprise 
Megan's
Enroll now! 




21 Today!
caii1-800-KAP-TEST 
Happy Birthday 


.,t.-.•i .....tt ligament in his left shoulder. but he is day-to­love, day. . · ... · 
''He willpl<ty every day and


KAPLAN 
Mom, Dad &Brendan 
The answer to the test question deal with the symptoms the pain," Lynch said. 
page 14 

The Observer • NBA Tuesday, April 26, 1994 

Surprising Bulls ready for run 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
The Chicago Bulls were better 
than expected in their first sea­
son since Michael Jordan's 
retirement, winning 55 games 
and making a run at the best 
record in the conference. 

They did not, however, finish the season strongly, losing their fmal two games and winding up as the Eastern Conference's third seed in the playoffs. 
The three-time defending NBA champions have to re­group in time for Friday's visit by the sixth-seeded Cleveland Cavaliers in the best-of-5 open­ing round. Game 2 will be Sun­day in Chicago Stadium. 
"We're excited about going to the playoffs. It's an opportunity. This is what we wanted," a reserved coach Phil Jackson said after Sunday's 92-76 loss to the New York Knicks. "We've grown as a basketball club and feel like we're heading toward next week in great shape." 
The loss to New York, a possi­ble second-round playoff oppo­nent, followed a double-over­time setback two days earlier to Boston, also at Chicago Stadium. 
The loss to a non-playoff team ended the Bulls' shot at the top seed and home court advantage 
throughout the conference 
playoffs. 

Of course, the Bulls lost their 
final two games in the regular 
season a year ago before win­
ning another championship. 

Some Bulls think they aren't through with the Knicks, whose tough defense has given them problems for three years. 
"We will definitely see them again, unless they lose in the first round. We plan to be there," center Bill Wennington said. 
First, though, are the Cavaliers, a team that beat Chicago three times in four games this season, including the fmal three meetings. 
"Cleveland has matched up with us greatly this year," Chicago's Horace Grant said. "It's going to be a great series." 
The teams have met in the playoffs four times in the last seven years and the Bulls have won each time. 
But this season there's no Jordan to rescue the Bulls, as he did in 1989 with a hanging last-second shot to beat the Cavaliers 101-100 and clinch the opening-round series. 
"For them to win three world championships back-to-hack, they had to have more than Michael," Cleveland's John Williams said. 

Tuesday, April26, 1994 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
Baseball takes two but not without trouble 
By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sports Writer 
Pat Murphy called it a good wakeup call. 
After handily winning the first game 11-5, the Notre Dame baseball team had to struggle to win a nailbiter nightcap 8-7 in extra innings last night at Eck Stadium. 
"That's baseball. Anybody can beat anybody on any given day so you've got to find a way to win," said Murphy. 
Although it wasn't pretty, the Irish t27-9) did find a way to turn back a fiesty Goshen Col­lege team after tying the game on a bases loaded walk to Ryan Topham in the bottom of the last inning. 
In the bottom of the eighth, Paul Failla went to second when Maple Leaf left fielder Mark Schloneger misplayed his high pop-up. With two outs, Sollman hit a chopper that sec­ond baseman Ryan Long couldn't handle and Failla scored the winning run on the error. 
Goshen designated hit­ter/pitcher/third baseman Jon Stoops almost singlehandedly beat the Irish going 1-for-3 at the plate, pitching five innings of one-hit baseball and making an unbelievable play on a grounder to third base. 
On the mound, Stoops allowed only one run and struck out seven while walking eight, but the numbers don't show how the righthander controlled the Irish batters with a small array of pitches. 
The doubleheader with the crosstown Goshen was sched­uled to balance out rainouts early in the. Irish schedul~ and was intended as an opportunity to get some of the younger members of the team playing 
Always Dress for 0uccessl 
Happy Birthday Brandee! 
Love, Mom, Dad t11 Patti 
time. 

Although some players like Mike Amrhein and Javier Fuentes took advantage of the playing time, the il).tention of the doubleheader backfired a little after Goshen tied up the game in the fourth inning and took a one-run lead in the flfth. 
"You rest some people and you risk going into the game with­out a proper focus," said Mur­phy. "We're lucky to come out with a doubleheader sweep." 
Amrhein and Topham led the Irish at the plate in the game. Amrhein went 2-for-4 while Topham went 2-for-3 with a homer, three RBis and two walks. George Restovich also drove in two runs with his sixth home run of the year which he drilled off the light pole in right field. 
Four Irish pitchers saw time on the mound, but freshman Larry Mohs was the only one who was able to control the Goshen hitter. 
Mobs gave up only two hits 
and one walk while striking out 
five in thre innings of shutout 
pitching. 
The Irish won the first game of 
the doubleheader 11-5 thanks 
to four Irish home runs in the 
first three innings. 
Topham got things started 
with a dinger to left center off 
Goshen starter David Rupp in 
the first inning. Three batters 
later, freshman Mike Amrhein 
put a three-run homer in just 
about the same spot. 
In the third inning, Amrhein 
and catcher Dennis Twombley 
hit back to back solo home runs 
to give the Irish a 7-0 lead. 
Amrhein, 2-for-4 with three RBis in the game, was quiet about his first two collegiate home runs, but would like to continue hitting well. 
"I didn't want to celebrate in front of everybody. It's nice to think about it now," said the freshman. "In baseball you go up and down. I'd like to stay off the rollercoaster and play even­ly." 
After the quartet of long balls, the Irish picked up three runs in the fourth and a run in the fifth while Goshen scored two runs in the fourth and three runs in the seventh. 
Twombley (2-for-4, 2 RBls), Topham (1-for-2, 2 RBis) and Fuentes (2-for-3) keyed the Irish attack with strong per­formances at the plate. 
A.J. Jones raised his record to 4-1 with after blanking Goshen in 2/3 of an inning on the mound. Paul Pryblo notched his fourth save of the year with one earned run on three hits in three innings on the mound. 
The ObserverfThomas Zlppnch 

Jason Pun and his Irish teammates were shocked by Northwestern on 
Sunday. 
eAca 
em1c Honor Co 
We Need Your Help! 
he Honor Code at Notre Dame works for the students, and the Honor Code Committee Which has served to write the Honor Code and educate the community on the Code needs your hel make it better suit our needs next year. If you are interested in helping in any of the following areas riext year, please fill out the following application. 
•Freshmen 
Orientation Weekend 

•Liaison 
Between Faculty and Students 

•Liaison 
Between Departmental Honesty Committees and our Committee 

•Education 
of Code 

•Integration 
of Code 


University of Notre Dame Honor Code Committee 
Student Application 
Please return your completed application to Debra Heerensperger, Chairperson, 240 Farley Hall, 4-4033. 
Name: __________________________________________________________ _ 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
sophomores Jason Pun and Mike Sprouse, senior Allan Lopez and sophomore John Jay O'Brien, Simme's substitute, couldn't get it down at the No. 2 and No. 3 slots respectively. 
The ultimate result of Sun• day's result, in terms of next months NCAA tournament, is that Northwestern has proba­bly slipped in the back door to join Notre Dame, Minnesota and Michigan for the regionals. 
For Notre Dame, however, Sunday's upset has only served as a wake up call for the NCAA championship, here at Notre Dame, May 21-29. 
"We'll work really hard from here on in," remarked Bayliss, "we must play better doubles. In addition, we need to fine­tune the bottom half of our line-up; roster changes could take place with stand out showings in practice." 
"I have to respect the team's academic needs," he added, "but came day one after fmals we'll spend a lot of time lifting and running to get in top physi­cal shape. Hopefully come May we'll be both mentally and physically at our peak." 
OBSERVE THE WARNING SIGNS. 
Know tOO ~sigls. Eal1y
y do you want to be on the Honor Code Committee; what do you feel you have to offer it? 
detection may save you ife. 
&'aAmerican Heart V Association 
page 16 

Track 
continued from page 20 
sophomore Jeff Hojnacki in the 1,500m, and sophomore Mike Smedley in the 3,000m steeple­chase. 
The women were once again led by sophomore Erica Peterson, who finished first in the 400m hurdles. Junior Lisa Junek also posted a victory in the lOOm hurdles, along with frshman Alison Howard in the 400m, and freshman Carolyn Long in the 800m. 
The men's team fared very well in the field events as well, with five victories. Junior Lamarr Justice, who in the win­ter plays point guard for the men's basketball team, won the triple jump. 
Senior Brian Kubicki won the shot put, junior Dan Grenough placed first in the pole vault, senior Todd Herman was victo­rious in the high jump, and 


their times and qualifying." 

The Observer/Ertc Ruethling 

Notre Dame dominated field events this past weekend at its home dual meet. 
The diction has at least ee de ·tions for "value:' So do we. 

Color Display, Apple" Ex/ended Keyboard 0 and mouse. Color Display, Apple" Ex/ended KeyboardUand mouse. 
Giving people more value for their money has made Macintosh' the best-selling available within your budget. Meaning you get it all. Power. Quality. And afford­personal computer on campuses and across the coun­ability. Its that simple. So, if that sounds like value 
Affordable computers from Apple.
try for the past two year~ And that's atrend that to you, visit your Apple Campus Ap l .;. is likely to continue. Because there are Macintosh and PowerBook" models Reseller today. And leave your dictionary at home. 
p1e W. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB · 631-7477 
----·­
~ --·~------------------------------------------~-------------------------------------­
Tuesday, April26, 1994 page 17 
"Kara was able to step right in and help us after Sara got

Softball 
hurt," Miller said. "Even with­
No one on the No:t;~ campus needs to be femindllcd that the nexttwh the toughest of the year; 
For ·the· Fightin.g Irish softball team, these weeks of ...,,...... 
.'. .:Jt,~~+~K}·~·

preparation and good weather also bring three:>:: tli~~t1ionunilte·ti lllin€i eti:'i challenging home dates to IV)' ftJ1til:iJaJ:pei; !~liSJ~e(~kel).q~
Field. ,. ·· Today at 3 p.m., the Ids}l square off against Michigan State, a scrappy squad whose 16-23 record includes victories over MCC challenger Detroit Mercy and Northwestern, ranked fifth in the region. "Michigan State conies in here with no pressure .on them," says Irish head coach Liz Miller. "They proved when they heat Northwestern that :::·•!1lle~fba.nt~~wtray_; they can beat anybody, so we lorlg-Jballo[tlle:i; have to be prepared."· ·· The Spartans are led by 
Flanner flogsCarroll, takes IH baseball 
By DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writer 
The Flanner Gamecocks cap­tured their third straight inter­hall baseball championship yes­terday afternoon, routing Carroll Hall 14-1 in a 4 1/2 in­ning game. 
The game was called in the fourth due to the 1:45 rule, which states that a game must come to an end after an hour and forty-five minutes of play. 
After jumping ahead 2-0 in the first, Flanner poured on 11 

Jppti~s 

andu 
runs in the second, highlighted by senior player/head coach Mike Rood's home run over the left field wall at Jake Kline Field. 
Freshman Mike Eger, who pitched at powerhouse Moeller High School in Cincinnati last year, had a strong outing for the Gamecocks, striking out seven and walking four in four innings of work. Eger allowed just two hits and one earned run on the afternoon, and his fastball appeared simply unhit­table to several of the Carroll 


Notre Dame Students 
the Cmmcil on International Educatiooal Exchange offers you the O{lX)rtunity of a lifetime. JUSTCALL(212) 661-1414 EXT. 1426 NOW for your FREE brochure oo how to work legally in Britain, Ireland, France, Germany, Costa Rica, Canada, New Zealand, and Austnllia. 
CIEE provides the wOik authoM!tioo, a (X'Ogillll handlxxt, flight discourus, alocal resource center, employer leads, and acrommcxiatirn qJlions all for just$Hll. Do it for asummer or after graduatirn or even while studying abrood. 
See adifferent culture fran the inside while eMallcing yoor ~.or do it jlN for fun! 
players. 

Third baseman Jason Woodrum also played well for Flanner, going 3-for-4 with five RBI on the afternoon. 
"We haven't lost a game in my four years here," commented Rood. "Our bats really came alive today. The coaching job for the winningest program on campus is now available." 
"I was really happy with the way the team played," added assistant coach Eric Baker, who was 3-for-3 in the game. "We would like to thank our fans." 
The Gamecocks fmished at 6­0 on the season, which was their fourth straight unbeaten campaign. 
continued from page 20 
went from a new pitcher learn­ing the college game to the everyday hurler. 
"It's harder to adjust to the college game as a pitcher," Battersby admits. "The mound is three feet farther back, the core of the ball is different in the NCAA and of course the bit­ters are a lot better." 
When Miller suffered a stress fracture to her leg in March, Battersby found herself pressed into daily duty. 
"I didn't plan on pitching this much," she admitted. "1 hoped to be a starting pitcher, but now with both relievers out I'm throwing a lot more. I'm just dealing with it as best I can." 
"There is a lot of pressure on Joy," Notre Dame coach Liz Miller says. "Her role has evolved in a way we didn't an­ticipate. Because she's had to pitch so often, we haven't had the chance to really work on specific elements of her game. 
Its been a tough role, but Joy has done a good job." 
Battersby has had her share of rocky outings, but has also beat regionally-ranked teams like Indiana and Michigan. 
"I look at other pitchers and see ~hat they are getting hit, too," Battersby said. "I try to learn from the negative but not to dwell on mistakes." 
Another rookie who entered the starting line-up early in the season due to injuries was McMahon. 
When starting catcher Sara Hayes missed three games and regular third baseman Andy Keys had to catch, McMahon took over third. She bas re­mained in the line-up at desig­nated player and has recently been a key pinch-hitter. 
Audition 
for 
READERS 
for 
Baccalaureate 
& 
Seniors' Last Visit to the Grotto 
Tuesday & Wednesday, April26 & 27 at4:00 pm at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
•
~U5 
tv11NISTRY 





·Rebecca's 
21! 
Love to our birthday girl! 
Mom, Dad & 
Elizabeth 
out that much game time re­cently I can really see her im­proving and working hard on technique. I think she will be a real contributor in the future." 
McMahon has tried to fill in where ever can. 
"I just try to add a little spark in every game," McMahon says. "I didn't expect to play as much as 1 have. I've been pleasantly surprised by it." 
Among the most consistent contributors in the group is Perkins. Her .346 batting av­erage, good for third among every day players, has jumped 60 points since she returned from a mouth injury earlier this month. 
"Liz has stepped in and be­come one of our strongest of­fense weapons," Miller says of her number three hitter. "Having her in the lineup is a big factor for us." 
Perkins and McMahon both feel that the competitive travel­ing teams they played for dur­ing high school helped prepare them for college ball. 
"I played on really competitive teams and I'm not seeing any better pitchers,"McMahon said. 
Perkins concurs: "The traveling teams I played with during high school were a lot like this, it was on a similar level." 
"The summer programs that Liz and the other girls played in prepared them for the competi­tive level of the college game," Miller agrees. "The experience level was there for them a lot quicker." 
Lacking that level of competi­tion may have hurt Murray ear­lier in the season, but her recent performance shows she has more than caught up. In this weekend's double-header against Indiana State she went five-for-seven, including two home-runs in the nightcap. 
"I like to call Meghan a dia­mond in the rough," Miller says. "What I mean by that is she has tremendous potential; she is a strong athlete with great hands and an explosive bat. She just needed time to adjust to different pitching and the different level of play." 
Murray admits the transition · was a big one. 
"I was so nervous when I flrst got here," Murray said. "Every one else had played against nationally ranked teams, where I came from in Minnesota we just didn't have that opportuni­ty." 
Murray credits Miller and se­nior captain Christy Connoyer with "showing her the ropes" of college ball. 
"Christy was a big help in learning about fielding, what to do at certain times, and how to deal with other people on the team. 
"All of the upperclassmen have been great," Murray con­tinues. "Being a freshman isn't a factor with them. There's no extra pressure." 
The other freshman on the team share Murray's attitude. 
"1 don't feel like I have to prove anything just because I'm a freshman," Perkins says. "I think coach understands we're still learning." 
"Its been tough, but I tell my­self that I'm a freshman, and I'm still making adjustments," says Battersby. "I don't use it as an excuse, though, because I 
. really don't feel like a freshman any more." 
page 18 
Waiting Irish on 




the bubble 
By KATE CRISHAM 
Sports Writer 
-·­
After nearly four months of 
playing the tennis game, the 
16th-ranked Notre Dame wom­
en's tennis team is ready to 
begin playing the waiting game. 
The Irish lost a 5-4 match to 
Michigan on Saturday, ending 
their regular season with a 16­
8 overall record and a 5-3 re­
gional record. The Irish are 
now awaiting word on whether 
they will receive an invitation to 
the 20-team NCAA Champi­

onship, which will take place on 
May 11-19 in Athens, Ga. The 
loss to Michigan makes a re­
gional bid to the tournament 
unlikely. 
"We have to wait until May 4, when the bids come out," said head coach Jay Louderback. "Wisconsin beat Northwestern this weekend, so that does help our chances." 
"Whoever gets the regional bid will most likely have at least two losses," said Louderback. 
The Irish were led ·by sopho­more Holyn Lord's 6-2, 6-1 de­feat of Bogana Yankovic at number-two singles. Junior Laura Schwab defeated Jamie Fielding 6-1, 6-1 at number­three singles, while senior Lisa Tholen defeated· Simon Lach­man at number-six singles. 
In the number-one doubles match, the 21rst-ranked duo of Tholen and sophomore Wendy Crabtree defeated Yankovic and Angie Popek 6-2, 6-3. 
Despite the loss, Louderback was pleased with his team's performance. 
"We competed real hard," said Louderback. "We had 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
Sophomore Holyn Lord .was a bright spot for the Irish in their 5-4 loss to Michigan on Saturday. · 
some real tight, well-played matches, like the number two singles match, which went to three matches, which could have gone either way." 
"Even though Erin Gowen was hurting, she still played doubles," said Louderback. "Erin's strength is her speed, and you could tell she just was­n't moving as quickly as usual." 
"Lisa Tholen is coming off an injury, and she played real well at both doubles and singles," he said. 
The Irish were hurt by Crab­tree's 6-3, 2~·6, 6-1 loss to Sarah Cyganiak at number-one singles. 

"That was Wendy's first loss in the region," said Louder­back. "She played a real tough match." 
For now, the Irish will be waiting for the news regarding the NCAA bid. 
''I'd say our chances of an at­large bid are about fifty-ftfty," said Louderback. "We're just going to have to wait for May 4." 
Tuesday, April 26, 1994 


Belles tennis to close at ho01e with Albion 
By JENNIFER LEWIS definitely my sophomore year Saint Mary's Sports Editor however, my doubles team is by far the best this year," said 
The 12-4 Saint Mary's tennis Darby. team will end their successful · This will also be Mary Cos­season at home this afternoon grove's, the number on singles at 3:00. The Belles will take on player and the number one their biggest rivals, the Albion doubles team player, final College Britains. match. According to Cromer, 
"The team is really fired up to Cosgrove and Darby are not get revenge on the Britain's," only the two top players, but said coach Katie Cromer. "This the two leader's of the team. game is so important not only "Their performances will be because it is our last match and greatly missed in the next years we want to win, but because season," said Cromer, "It is our loss was so close in the going to be dificult to play with­invitational." out them. We have a strong 
"The rivalry has been build­base without them, but when ing up between the two teams any team loses their number for years," said senior Thayma one and two players it's goingDarby. to be difficult. We are really
Darby is Saint Mary's number hoping for some talented fresh­
two singles player and shares man next year." the position of number two "I would really hope to end doubles players with Robin my collegiate career with a vic­Hrycko. Albion was the first tory in both." team able to defeat them in the "I hope everyone will come 
middle of the season. Darby out and support the team in our also lost her singles match at last home match. I think some the same meet; Darby and fans could really make the dif­Hrycko will be able to have a ference, " said Cromer. "I really rematch with their former vic­encourage everyone to come, it tors this afternoon. will be an extraordinary
"My personal best season was match." 
I taRs-you, 'Eileen :Marie, to 6e my wife, to liave and to lioli, in plenty and in want... I promise to love you and fionor you ... to be agreeabfe and com­pliant in bed and in board ... for as long as we botli sfia[{ five! 
109 days... 
xo 

...to be continued... 



Looks like a Vivarin night. 
It's 10 PM. You've crammed for finals all week. Took two today. And now you've got to pack an entire semester's worth of Philosophy into one take-home exam, in one night. But how do you stay awake when you're totally wiped? Revive with Vivarin. Safe as coffee, Vivarin helps keep you awake and mentally alert for hours. So when you have pen in hand, but sleep on the brain, make it a Vivarin night! 
--~~----~~~----------.... 
Tuesday, April26, 1994 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
SPELUNKER 
fWRRV' IF WE ~NT D6HJS€ 'llt& De;rA vu DE.YICE WE'U BE TRAPPeD IN II TEP-1P­
0RAL WOP STA-RnN£. WITH ntt Fl~r 5PUliNI<€R. liND eNOl~ f!E.R~! 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
\ouA"\, tov!>. 'Foot> GRouPS F\ l>A•c"\ S.~ZlP b No £AS'-\ "\]\K£5 {1. STED ~IKI< To li\Sl:. 1 L-\£T Jll"\ J-\oSLER. 1-\M 

'E~>.oubi-\T ~Pt.Lot<K£/Z.. 
To \i\£'!>£ l"Ab£.5 
ro~ F.vE ~O.R:S ... 
/ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Garibaldi in 55 Gladstone rival Genoa? 60 Real
1 Actress Winger 33 Pickle 62 "Poppycock!"
6 Park, in 
63 Pre-photo supermarket pronouncementMonopoly 36 Subject for a 
'11 "Honest" fellow tab 
in Geneva'?. 14 Where Gauguin 37 Avaricious one &5Some 
VISited van Gogh b &6 Skirmish 15 Funnyman 38 Octo er gem 67 "Dallas" Miss O'Brien 40 Beam fastener &a Simonize16 Bloodshot 42 1963 Oscar 69 Classic theater winner17 "Cheers!" in 
name Cherbourg? 
43Arose 

10 4-Down again 19 Chang's 45 Danger Siamese twin 47 Hang in the 20 Brand of lemon-breeze DOWN flavored drink · 48 Madrid's 
1 Peri opera 21 Daydream equivalent of a 2 Made a boner
Texas university 

23 Koch and Wynn 3 Post-sneeze 50 Performance24 Pampering, for word short 51 Had lunch 4 Take money for 26 It's heard in a 52 Montana and a spar~ room herd Moon, in brief 
5 Loner &Agt.'s share 7 Creator of 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Lorelei Lee 8 Med. subj. 9 Winter melon 
10 Competitor 11 Vicinity 12 Early German 
carmaker 13 Barely beat, with "out" · 18 Woman's top 22 Cartoonist 
Wilson 25 Islamic leader 28 Crowbar 29 Portugal and its 
neighbor 30 Barely managed, with "out" 
Cl\ ~HI-I 1 Wll~l ~00 GOIN<; TO IX> TO ME I I·MP '{OJ o.t-1T ~0 MET() B£D 'tJ\.\tN l'lt\ ALROO'( 
IN BED!~ TO 
SPOIL '(0\lR ru~ I 100 EEL.' 
:So IJJ£ lk~Z£ Prr FooD Gfi?.ovP-' Tv,.,-WAr<TEt> To s""' (HANK t..tov J1'"1l 

BILL WATTERSON 
1-\E.'{ I iO\l 
CAt-IT ThK£. ME OIITOF 
BED.'l~££0 t.~,'( SLEEP.' 
\-18.1 1-1£'1 .' 
DAVE KELLETT 
WE-(;ET ?iiE Top J'Pf>,.. .1! VlE: GEr T~t of S?oT.' IJ,loo·l-!oo/1 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



Justafrnctionofwbatl\e ~on sportscan help keep societY mshape. 
It's so easy to help your ,-five hours of volunteer time community, when you think per week the standard of about it. giving in America. 
Millions of people have G. n. Get involved with the helped make five percent J.VeI'1l'e. causes you care about of their incomes and WilDt yoiJ~rable. and give five. 
• 


31 Raise 46 Bloodletting 57 Charon's domain
32 Alternative to 

Charles de 49 Potted 58 Kind of beer Gaulle 52 Put down 59 Relationship 33 Clinton's runs 53 Count in music words 34 Each 54 Winter weather 61 Prefix with play 55 Extract or scope 
35 First name in 

spying 56 New Rochelle 64 Favorite relative college in politics?
39 Moon-based 41 Alternative to Certs Get answers to any three clues 
44 "Desmoiselles 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
d'Avignon" 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
artist 



•
~CLUB~ ~ .lVlot::: 







SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, April 26, 1994 

By MEGAN McGRATH gious university and playing a Sports Writer varsity sport, but also to the changes in dimensions of the It's a whole new ball game in playing field and the livelier college. ball the NCAA employs.
The five freshmen who joined Yet despite all the challengesthe Notre Dame softball team presented by both college life had to adjust not only to the and competitive softball, the rigors of a presti-
The Observer/John Bingham 
Kara McMahon, in her first year, is one of Notre Dame's scrappiest players. 
Wildcats stun No. 14Irish 
By PHIL LANGER 
Spons Writer. . 

The Notre Dame men's tennis team, currently in a three:..way tie with Mississippi and North Carolina for the 
ghlight fJlm for 
Notre Dame tennis/' 
'It.' however, came down to more than a lack of prinletime, highligb.f film type shots. Sundats shqcking upset was simply tb.e result ofpo()r fundamental execution: · · 
The lfkelfcontributor to N()tre Dame's subpar play wa~:~ fr~shman sensation Ryan Simme's absence at No. 2 singles. 
Slmme fell victim to the flu some" time Iastweekend and~ as<a result, 'each .singles player phiy~d.up.asl()t With freshman Ron. Meilcias rtlUng the void left ~t ~e NQ. 6 poSi.!feP• . · 
"They [Northvvc;!~terql¢~1!gb.t
No..4 Md No. 5 on had da .. ·· 
B~yli~s· ~1'~1~ w~ ~ fJl 
pmntment.titd: ,.;., · · ·. Jt!}'t:iFWiiit'M Yet another disaJipointment

• poor· outi.tlg ofthe.dou Seniors Andy Zurc~er .·.. ... Todd Wilson vv.9l\;,,,~t. .. .r a,1~(}11.llles 

Frosh figuring in early 
freshman on the Irish squad have all made considerable contributions to the team. 
Pitcher Joy Battersby has seen the most action of the five, pitching every other game for the Irish since March. Out­fielder Elizabeth Perkins has started all but one of the games she was available to play. while second baseman Meghan Murray has been a starter and a pinch-hitter, as has third baseman Kara McMahon. Katie Marten has been used primarily as a pinch runner, seeing action in 36 of Notre Dame's 47 games. 
"I think all the freshman have the personality to make a big contribution to the team," McMahon said. "We are all sparks; we keep an upbeat attitude throughout whatever happens." 
Maintaining an upbeat atti­tude has been important for Battersby. Injuries to pitchers Kara Brandenburger and Car­rie Miller have decimated the Irish pitching staff. Battersby 
see SOFTBALL I page 17 
The Observer/John Bingham 

Freshman Joy Battersby has stepped in to become a major contrib­utor to the Irish pitching staff. 
Men and women tracksters coast to easy victories 
By WILL MARTIN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's track team continued to prepare for important season-ending meets with solid victories over Eastern Illinois and Hillsdale this weekend at the Monogram Track. 
By finishing with 75 points, the women's team posted an impressive win. Eastern Illinois was held to 45 points, while Hillsdale only managed to finish with 39. 
"I was very pleased with the perfor­mance of our women's team," said Coach Joe Piane. "Even though we are not as deep as some teams, we really ran well and a lot of good things hap­pened this weekend." 
The men's squad won its competition in similar fashion. The Irish finished with 103 points, while Eastern Illinois only scored 69. Hillsdal~ once again fin­ished last with 19 points. 
"The men's team ended up running better than expected," said Piane. "We were hoping for a total score in the mid 80's, but we endei:l up with over 100." 
In the meet, the team had 16 mem­bers finish first in their respective events. On the men's side, senior Dean Lytle led the way with a first place fin­ish in the 200m and a second in the lOOm. Other first place finishes includ­ed junior Nate Ruder in the 5,000m, se­nior Chris Lilly in the 110m hurdles, 





