-~~~­

Monday, October 9, 1995• Vol. XXVII No.36 
TI-lE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARYS 
Retiring colonel reflects on 30 years of Air Force service 
BY PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
•• ·.:o-. '•""
After years of steadfast service to his country, including time as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, Thomas Moe has decided to return to civilian life. Colonel Thomas Moe, Commander, Air Force HOTC, retired on Saturday, Oct. 5, ending a thirty year career. 
For the past three years, Moe A ~ ""':.. was responsible for recruiting lf'P and training eadel<; to be com-< · : 
ml.,ionod in the United States ~: 
Air Force. But his dossier . .·. ' 
Dancin' up a
could fill volumes. · . ~:~ Moe's decorated career in-·· . 
eludes several prestigious ,>........_ storm! awards, including the Silver Colon~l Moe Star with oak leaf cluster, 
Helping to celebrate Multicultural 
which is the third highest award for valor given out by the Air Force. He has Week, Potowatomi Indians performed also been awarded the Defense Superior Service 
at the Fieldhouse Mall last Thursday. 
Medal, which is the second highest award issued 
Notre Dame and Saint Marys' students 
for non-combat behavior. 
Moe says that the highlights of his eareer. were asked to participate In a friend­irlcludcd "gettting the best jobs. I was able to fly ship dance as part of the occasion. lighter planes. I had a tour of duty as an attache 
The performance attracted a large
in the U.S. Embassy in Switzerland, which was good for my family. I was also able to serve as crowd due to the loud, rhythmic head of HOTC at Notre Dame." sounds of the drums which echoed 
For his time spent as a prisoner of war in 
the richness of Native American cul­
Vietnam. live years and three months, Moe was 
ture.
awarded the POW medal. "I was honored to serve in the military, and those were challenging times. The Pot ow atom! once owned the land It was the price I had to pay for military service. 
on which Notre Dame was founded. In 
and I was grateful to be able to continue with my 
a trade for the property, Notre Dame 
career and to continue surviving my country. I had to pay a high price, but it wasn't as high as supplied the Potowatoni with a free those who lost their lives during the war," Moe education at the university. 
see MOE I page 4 L____________:~=============::::::::::::::::==~~========~ 

Holy Cross sisters observe 


ND revises ticket exchange 

UN conference on women will be using the exchange 
These changes come as a re­
ticket, Scholl reported. sult of the relatively high num­

New system 

BY MAUREEN HURLEY promote the NGO's platform. 
On game day, the person us­ber of student-exchanged tick­Saint Mary's News Editor "These women were selected ing the new ticket must go to a ets that have been found by

for their knowledge of and 

to prevent 
table set up at Gate 14, on the undercover agents to haveIt is rare to gain a global per­work with disadvantaged and west side of the stadium on the been scalped.

Sl?ectivo in ministry. It is. even underfranchised women in dif­50 yard line, and provide a "Most students are using the rarer to influence world politics ferent parts of the globe," said 

scalping 
picture ID before they receive tickets exactly as they weremlating to ministry. Sister Catherine O'Brien, presi­By KELLY FITZPATRICK their ticket. Scholl warned meant to be used; we're justSister Mary dent of the News Writer that the person receiving the tightening up a little on thoseTurgi of Congregation.

I ticket must enter the stadium that don't," said Scholl. 
Covington, T u r g i
I Ticket scalpers, beware: the immediately after acquiring The new procedure will
Kentucky and focused on
{ Notre Dame Ticket Office has their ticket. Therefore, they hopefully decrease the number
Sister Pauline economic is­initiated some changes in the should not go to the table for of tickets sold for monetaryGomes of sues in the student ticket exchange pro­their ticket until they are gain.
Dhaka, conference. 
gram. As far as future develop­

Bangladesh "The UN 
According to Bill Scholl, ments, Scholl said the ticket

represented agreed to give 
director of ticketing, the office is not anticipating that

the Sisters of Turgl Gomes e c o n o m i c 'Most students are
changes will take effect begin­there will be any necessary

the Holy value to the 
ning on Tuesday, October 10, using tickets changes in the system for someCross at the Non-Governmental work women do in the home just in time for the Irish game exactly as they were time. "We'll see how this

Organizations (NGO) forum and that wasn't previously counted ~ 
against USC. works for a while, and lind outthe United Nations Conference in the GDP," said Turgi, who The new system of ticket ex­meant to be used; if there's a need for reassess­in early Septornber, both focus­said that figure totals up to change will decrease the num­ment in the future," added

ing on women's issues. over $11 trillion world-wide. we're just tightening up 
ber of students that simply ex­Scholl.

"The issues we were dealing "To have this counted gives on those that don't.'
change their tickets to scalp The changes do not repre­with have become global. women an ·increased political them. sent the ticket office's discon­Women are dealing with the leverage." 

"It will just make it harder tent with the system or its 

same realities no matter where "Women can take every sin­Bill Scholl 
for students to make a profit usage; on the contrary, Schollthey are, demanding a global gle point of the UN document, off of their exchanged tickets; said that the ticket office isresponse," said Turgi, who cur­and use this as an argument those that use the process cor­pleased that they can give stu­rently works as a community point to demand results. It rectly will not be affected," ready to go into the stadium. dents, staff. and alumni theorganizer in Kentucky, and for­gives us a focus to move for­Scholl said. This procedure, Scholl said, opportunity to acquire thesemerly served in campus min­ward, " she said. 

In lieu of students entering is similar to the NCAA-recom­tickets that are in such highistry at Saint Mary's College. Congregation administrators the ticket office and immedi­mended procedure used by demand for friends and otherAccording to Turgi, the NGO stress the long-range impor­ately getting their replacement Notre Dame for football play­fans.

forum "was a grassroots gath­tance of the Sisters' presence at tickets, those wishing to ex­ers to receive their compli­"This is the first time thatering of women around the the conference. "The Congre­change their tickets must bring mentary guest tickets. The we've allowed students to ex­world," she said. "It was phe­gation, through this represen­their identification card to the process used to give players change for general admission nomenal, with such high en­tation, has not only had imput ticket office and turn in their their exchanged tickets serves tickets," Scholl said, "We think ergy and a lot of extremely pro­in the dialogue on women's is­student ticket on a Tuesday, as the model for the ticket we've got a good system now." 
gressive vision." As official ob­sues, but more importantly, Wednesday, or Thursday be­office's new procedure, and Students with questionsservers in the UN's Fourth they have had a listening issue fore the game on the ticket to the success of the player pro­about the new system of ticket World Conference on Women, to ~ world perspective," said be exchanged. Then they must gram bodes well for the stu­exchange can call the ticketTurgi and Gomes lobbied gov­provide the name and address dent system as well, continued office during regular office
ernmental representatives to see SISTERS I page 4 
of the non-student person that Scholl. hours. 



page2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, October 9, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

No place for cheerleaders 
•


In soccer 
ln the old college tra­

dition of sports, the Alejandro Gadala­cheerleader has been Maria intertwined with the Ad. Design Asst. Manager 
sports scene. Whether in football or basketball, a cheerleading squad shakes up the crowd in order to show sup­port for the team. Notre Dame has always been a school with a great deal of spirit and a student body that is very supportive of their athletic teams, especially in football. 
Lately, the school's support for sports has been rising even more, especially because of the incredible performance of the women's soccer team, the fencing squad and the men's soccer team. The crowd attendance at athlet­ic events has been rising, and people want to participate more and more in the games that take place. In the same fashion, the Athletic Department has been trying to show their support to these sports by sending cheerlead­ers out to pump up the crowd at these games. Unfortunately, there are sports in which cheerleading canhot do anything but distract the crowd and the players from what is really important: the game. 
Soccer, a game any Latin American like me grows up with, is the most watched and most played game in the world. In stadiums as big or bigger than football stadiums in the United States, powerful cheers develop. Anybody who has been to one of these stadiums knows what I'm talking about -what it feels to do a wave along with twenty thousand people, and then chant, "Oe! Oe! Oe!" to support AC Milan or Barcelona or Colo-Colo. 
All this goes on without a cheer leading squad. This is not without a reason though. In contrast with football or basketball, soccer does not have any dead time other than half­time (which is commonly used to go to the restroom or to get a drink). There are no time outs, and the plays develop so quickly that, by the time a cheerleader would fmish the cheer, their team would have already scored a goal. There is truly no time for cheerleading. In football and basketball, on the other hand, there are so many time outs and time between plays that games triple or quadruple their length. So there is time for cheerleaders to do their job. 
Another reason that cheerleaders aren't 
necessary for soccer is the one mentioned 
above: the cheerleaders actually distract the 
fans, and more importantly, the players from 
the game. I have spoken to some players and 
fans and most agree on that fact. They 
appreciate the support that the cheerleaders 
show for their team, but they don't feel com­
fortable with a cheerleading squad in a soc­
cer game. 
For me, personally, coming from a back­
ground in which soccer is the main sport, 
cheerleaders and soccer form a very unaes­
thetic combination, and I simply don't like it. 
This is mainly because of the fact that I have 
never heard of the Bayern Munich Cheer 
Leading Sa•1ad, or Las Porreras del River 
Plate. 
With this I do not want to discourage the 
Athletic Department or the cheerleading 
squad to show their support. On the contrary, 
some team members have told me that they 
truly appreciate the support that the Athletic 
Department is showing for their teams, and 
I'm sure they are not the only ones who 
·apprecia.fe it. ·But nevertheless, it looks bad, 
distracts the crowd, and simply doesn't 
belong in the game. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Ktisti Kolski  Michael O'Hara  
Bill Connoly  Production  
Sports  Jana Bruder  
Rafael Gonzalez  Kira Hutchinson  
Dave Bradley  Lab Tech  
Graphics  Tom Johannesen  
Tom Roland  Katie Ktoener  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Mass burial for victims as new tremors terrify survivors 

"Our community was so peaceful and everything was perfect," sobbed Sunardi, a 49-year-old farmer in a nearby village. Like many Indonesians, Sunardi uses only one name. 
"I thought maybe this time it's going to be my turn," said Yus Joko, 40, a Sungaipenuh schoolteacher who lost his entire family of four. 
Yus said he barely got outside his home on Saturday when it "crumbled like matchsticks, burying my whole 
positions in the occupied enclave. 

Monday, Oct. 9 

Lopez. 
Thfl AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 9. 
. 40s Unes separBie high temperature zones for the day. 
............... ..a..&.. ............. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressurs ~ ~ r"\
H L 63 &'Sl [Til 0 ~ b3 '¥' t!..._! c........!. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Assoclatfld PffJIJS 
Atlanta 76 49 Dallas 83 51 New Orleans 79 61 Baltimore 69 56 Denver 69 40 New York 72 58 Boston_ 70 54 Los Angeles 76 63 Philadelphia 70 58 Chicago 63 42 Miami 93 88 Phoenix 92 62 
the more difficult. 

"My boys are working day and night to get the bodies out, but we don't have enough tools and equipment to speed up the process," said Lt. Col. Ibrahim Idris, who is overseeing the search. 
Residents spent a third night in tents or in the open, trying to keep bonfires going to warm them in the 50­degree nighttime chill. 
The governor's office said 78 bodies were recovered. 
Giuliani scores victory in NYC 
NEW YORK 

The head of the Tacoma, Wash., school district was freed from his con­tract Sunday to become chancellor of the cash-strapped New York City schools. The Tacoma School Board.. which earlier said it expected Rudolph Crew to honor his contract there, agreed in an emergency meeting to let him accept the New York position. 


Crew was under contract to head the 31,000-pupil sys­tem through 1998. The New York City school board voted Saturday to hire Crew as the chancellor of the nation's largest school system. The contract was offered after the board and Mayor Rudolph Giuliani agreed on who should lead the district of 1 million students. "I accept your offer wholeheartedly," Crew said in a statement to the board. "and pledge all my energy to address our common goals." John Lynn, vice president of the Tacoma board, and board president Marilee Scarborough issued a state­ment after Saturday's vote criticizing New York's search for a new chancellor. "I think the New York City board of education has had a very terrible process" for choosing a chancellor, Lynn said. 
Israeli militia allows visits to prison 
MARJAYOUN, Lebanon 

International observers will have unrestricted access to 
a notorious prison in Israeli-occupied south Lebanon for 
the first time, the Israeli-backed militia that runs the 
camp said Sunday. The South Lebanon Army said in a 
statement that representatives from the International 
Committee of the Red Cross can inspect prisoners' condi­
tions at the facility near the village of Khiam without su­
pervision. The SLA -armed, funded and trained by Is­
rael -refused in the past to allow the Red Cross or any 
other organization to inspect the prison, located in an old 
French colonial fort. It was not clear why the militia has 
reversed that policy. although the communique issued by 
SLA headquarters noted that "this decision confirms the 
command's policy of respecting human rights." There 
are about 200 prisoners held in Khiam on charges of aid­
ing Iranian-backed guerrillas, who attack Israeli and SLA 
Guatemalan villagers mourn dead 
Guatemala 
Refugees who fled civil war and returned to face more violence mourned 11 slain neighbors Sunday and heard Nobel laureate Rigoberta Menchu urge that the killers be executed. "I will become involved in the investigations until the trial ends and the guilty are punished," Menchu told villagers crowded into the tiny, dirt-floor Roman Catholic church for Mass in the jungle village, 80 miles north of Guatemala City. Menchu stood near the altar, beside the simple wood coffin of Carlos FernandL Choc, the 11th person to die from Thursday's shooting by gov­ernment troops. The other 10 were buried Saturday. A light rain drummed on the tin roof of the wood-plank church and dampened dozens of villagers unable to fit in­side. Menchu, who won the 1992 Nobel Peace Prize, cut short a lecture tour in the United States to return to Guatemala because of the shooting and said the death penalty should be applied to the soldiers involved. More than 100,000 people have died in country's 33-year civil war. The villagers are refugees who fled the war in the early 1980s as the army obliterated dozens of villages suspected of harboring leftist rebels. Those who fled fi­nally -returned last year. believing peace talks and re­duced fighting had made the country relatively safe. 
Pair arrested for stealing reptiles 
LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
Stubby and Pauli are back behind bars. They're not in jail, but the two men accused of stealing the iguana and python from the Columbian Park Zoo are. Christopher Lopez, 18, and William Stovall, 19, were arrested Friday and were still being held Sunday. Lopez is charged with three counts of burglary, three counts of theft and con­spiracy to commit burglary. He is accused of stealing two iguanas and the python. Stovall is charged with conspir­acy to commit burglary and theft. Police believe he helped Lopez avoid police and loaned him the bolt-cut­ters that were used to cut the padlock to the reptile house. Both suspects are due in court Monday. Stubby is one of two iguanas stolen on Sept. 5. "He looks to be in pretty good health," said zoo director Debbie Burroughs Mecklenburg. "He's actually gained a little weight. Police recovered Stubby Friday morning after they arrested · suNGAIPENUH, Indonesia Indonesian earthquake 
bodies of earthquake victims through a torrential rain Sunday to the edge of town where soldiers labored to dig enough graves. 
The work was slow the day after 100 people died in a pre-dawn quake on the island of Sumatra, as the downpour filled the graves with water and turned the ground into mire. Another 700 peo­ple were seriously injured in the magni­tude-7 quake, and 10,000 buildings col­lapsed or were seriously damaged. 
The epicenter was near this town of 40,000 in a remote south-central valley. Five strong aftershocks on Sunday drove survivors out of their homes and into the open. where they huddled in the rain and wept. 
family in it." 

Local police and residents joined a battalion of 800 soldiers to extract bod­ies from the rubble and bury them quickly to try to stem the outbreak of disease. 
Still, "they were given a decent Muslim burial," said a military officer. 
Meanwhile, officials said, another quake with a magnitude of 5.2 struck about midday Sunday on Java, the large island adjacent to Sumatra. Its center was about 120 miles southwest of Jakarta, the Indonesian capital. There were no immediate reports of serious damage or casualties. 
Saturday's earthquake damaged roads leading to the stricken valley in Jambi province and downed telephone and power lines, making rescue efforts all 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Monday, October 9, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND receives grant to update computers Computing 
Sj,ecialto The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $600,000 grant from IBM's Shared University Hesearch (SUH) Program to in­crease resources in the Uni­versity's High Performance Computing Cluster (IIPCC). 
The grant will be used to add an eight processor IBM SP2, which will be used exclusively for parallel processing and eventually will be integrated with an existing 16 processor IBM SP1 to provide a larger par­allel computing complex in the HPCC. 
"The SUR program is intended to enhance a strong IBM techni­cal presence at selected leading research universities and with the leading researchers in the university community," said Hobert Dunn. director of Systems, Platforms and Manufacturing. Staff at IBM. Dunn added that the research the HPC"C. In addition, the University has added more than $500,000 toward HPCC resources. 
The new SUR grant will in­troduce a parallel computing environment to Notre Dame, according to Larry Rapagnani, assistant provost for Information Technologies. 
In parallel computing, the workload is distributed across numerous individual processors, allowing tremendous volumes of information to be processed simultaneously at incredibly high speeds. Different types of information can be accessed, and calculations can be per­formed at billions of calculations per second. 
Notre Dame faculty in a vari­ety of disciplines will be able to use the new technology. 
In the chemistry department and the Radiation Laboratory, the IBM SP2 will be used as a computation engine to run of unsteady rational flows. 
The Theoretical Solid State Electrophysics Research group will develop computations, algo­rithms and physical models of nanometer-scale electronic structures. Through interdisci­plinary research, they can pro­duce new tools and libraries for efficient parallel computational electronics. 
Research projects in computer science and engineering include investigating issues in disk sup­port for video servers and devel­oping a parallel implementation of transistor-switch level models of VLSI chips with the goal of precisely computing power dissi­pation. By running simulations of algorithms on the IBM SP2, researchers will be able to iden­tify the critical issues in the de­sign of algorithms for massively parallel systems. 
The computer science and engineering department also has undertaken a comprehen­sive investigation of the basic interdependencies between hardware, software, algoritms and applications to understand their influence on performance scalability and portability. 
In addition to research pro­jects, the SUR program has al­lowed Notre Dame to offer a wider variety of undergraduate and graduate level courses in computer sciences and engi­neering, aerospace and me­chanical engineering, and other departments that teach numeri­cal analysis techniques. 
"The SUR program provides essential tools and affords an opportunity to those engaged in research and teaching at the University," Rapagnani said. "With the substantial support for the HPCC at Notre Dame, not only are individual research projects successful. but inter­disciplinary efforts bring a bet­ter understanding of the benefits of parallel computing. 






program consists of "a balanced Parallel Gaussian and large sim­
well as some functions in OIT,

mix of programs directly related ulations in Molecular Quantum 
• CAMPUS BRIEF 
are not just computing relat­

to IBM development and pro­Dynamics. 
ed."
Special to The Observer assortment of salads and

grams that create new. innova­Researchers in the Center for 
OIT administers Notre
desserts prepared by guests

tive applications using IBM sys­Applied Mathematics and the 
Dame's wide-ranging informa­
A fundraising lunch for the and friends of the Catholic

tems." Department of Computer Sci­
tion and computer resources,
Holy Family Catholic Worker Worker House. 

Since 1993, Notre Dame has ence and Engineering will col­
including 597 computer work­
House of South Bend will be

received more than $2.2 million laborate to conduct research in 
stations and several dedicated
held at the University of Notre , Founded in 1986, the Holy

in grants from IBM to develop aerodynamics and aeroacoustics 
terminals in 10 clusters
Dame's Center for Social Con· 'Family Catholic Worker House 
throughout campus. The clus­
cerns Thursday from 11:30 provides hospitality to home­
ters and most academic build­
a.m. to 1 p.m. Admission will less women and families. The 
ings are linked in a fiber-based
be $3. House is staffed by unpaid vol-
network to campus resources,
As it has in previous years, unteers and funded entirely by 




~(~J..IJII (~()J..IJIIN 
including the Hesburgh Li­

the lunch will feature a personal contributions and 
brary's on-line catalog, an

vegetarian entree and an fundraising efforts. 
office gets new name 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame's Academic Council ap­proved last Tuseday a change in the name of the Office of University Computing to the Office of Information Technologies (OIT). 
Larry Rapagnani, assistant provost, requested the name change to better reflect the services provided by the department. 
"To support what is occuring in the field of information tech­nology, we should be focused on technological issues and not just computing issues," he said. "In addition, Educational Media now is part of our office and many of their functions, as 

electronic-mail system, a cam­puswide information system, and research computing facili­It's Baek! ties.EARN CASH by DONATING Personnel in OIT also assist Notre Dame faculty members in the transition from oldUse the Club Column in The Observer You could earn: teaching methods to the use of new -forms of teaching technol­to advertist: for a club event, to make $30°0after your first plasma donation! ogy. Photographic, audio, video,club announcements, or to remind and computer graphic design$15°0 if you donate alone (first visit)club members of a meeting... services are available to the University community through t$ 5°0 if you show college I. D. (first visit)for FREE! Educational Media. +$1 OQQ per person if you recrun someone and they donate Simply fill out a blue form available either Pleasein the CCC office or outside of the office in $30°0 TOTAL! the marked slot by the mailboxes. Return Help Us Save Lives the form by Thursday at 5:00 p.m. in order RecycleMust be 18 years old; proof of current for the announcement to appear in the col­address with photo 1.0.umn the following Monday. CoME TO: HouRs: The AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5This service is provided for you by the Club Coordination Council. Observer 631-4078 206 LaFortune SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 CLASS SERVICE PROJECTS FALL BREAKAustralia Austria EXPERIENCE WITH Chile Egypt England POTOWATOMI INDIANS France Greece OCTOBER 16-OCTOBER 19 India Ireland ·ASSIST WITH HOUSING RENOVATION Italy Japan ·WILL CONCLUDE WITH POW WOW Jerusalem CELEBRATIONMexico Spain FINAL INFORMATION MEETINGCHAT WITH RETURNEES OF NOTRE DAME WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 11,1995 AND SAINT MARY'S PROGRAMS 7:00PM IF INTERESTED,Tuesday October l 0, 1995 CALL PETE A.S.A.P. AT 634-23066:30-9:30 p.m. OR LaFortune Ballroom SR. CLASS OFFICE AT 631-5136  

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, October 9, 1995 

Clinton: Social prograiDs will ease racial rift Sisters 
By SONYA ROSS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton intends to help heal the nation's current rift over race by fighting to pre­serve social programs, his chief of staff said Sunday as blacks and conservatives urged the president to make a stronger statement. 

Clinton's proposal to balance the federal budget without steep reductions in social pro­grams is the best reflection "of what we want to do in terms of bringing the races together," said White House chief of staff Leon Panetta. 
"If we pass a budget that gets rid of affirmative action, that cuts into the very programs that help to educate children, ... that's the worst thing we can do in terms of dividing the races in this country," Panetta said in an appearance on NBC's "Meet the Press." 

The debate over racial ten­sion in America grew hotter 
Moe 
continued from page 1 
said. 
In 1980, Moe graduated from the Armed Forces Staff College in Norfolk, Virginia with a Writing Award for his research paper concerning Soviet Youth Indoctrination. 
"The pro'gram stressed our skills in leadership possitions, communication and ethics. We especially developed our com­munication skills," said Moe. 
Moe sees Notre Dame as the and louder after the acquittal last Tuesday of O.J. Simpson in the slayings of his ex-wife and one of her friends. 
Last week, the president said he hoped the nation would not use the Simpson verdict as a reason to deepen the racial di­vide. 
There was more evidence of that divide Sunday in a poll that found that a majority of white people harbor misperceptions about blacks -mainly that they make up a greater share of the U.S. population and ben­efit more from the federal government than they actually do. 
The poll of 1,970 adults, con­ducted by The Washington Post, the Kaiser Family Foun­dation and Harvard University, found 58 percent of whites be­lieve average black Americans have better jobs than their white counterparts, even though 22.5 percent of working blacks hold low-end service jobs and earned an average of $15,000 less a year than \}'bites. 
focal point of the South Bend community. 
"It is a guiding light in soci­ety, a type of inspiration, and we need that sort of inspira­tion, stated Moe. 
"If we all had our own way, there probably wouldn't be any military anywhere. The military certainly is economi­cally draining. But we live in a dangerous world. The military can be a very dangerous weapon, but if we're going to have a military, we need good people running it. We need to get good leaders. 
"The best way to do that is to recruit leaders from institu-

The poll, with a margin of er­ror of 3 percentage points, sug­gests that such perceptions may lead many whites to embrace drastic cutbacks in social spending and affirmative action policies. 
Harvard University professor Cornel West, said such senti­ment, fed by the post-Simpson debate, cannot go unchecked by the nation's leaders. 
"We are in very, very deep trouble," West said on ABC's "This Week With David Brink­ley." "One of the ways of trying to come to terms with this is acknowledging the fact that there are certain absurd di­mensions to being black in America, and therefore white fellow citizens ought not to be in denial." 
Conser.vatives said Sunday it is unrealistic for Clinton to avoid acknowledging the race problem, given the magnitude of the debate and growing poverty among blacks. 
"There's the two Americas: one is macrodemocratic and 
itions such as Notre Dame, where the people are very ethically and morally ground­ed," said Moe. 
The change of careers does not mean that Moe is slowing down hipace. He would like to stay in the academic commu­nity now that he has retired. ''I'd like some sort of manage­ment position in the national arena, either here or some­where else. I'd like to do some­thing that would utilize my skills in foriegn languages, since that is one of my exper­tise." 
Moe graduated from Notre Dame in 1975. 
capitalist ... the other is an economy that is almost a Third­World socialist model. There is a solution the president ought to be talking about and frankly. he's not," former Housing Sec­retary Jack Kemp said on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
Clinton would have an oppor­tunity to frame the debate next week, courtesy of a march on Washington organized by Na­tion of Islam leader Louis Far­rakhan as a call to personal re­sponsibility for black men. 
continued from page 1 
Barbara Wade, director of co­municaiions for the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
Turgi agrees. "Our being there placed us in a global net­work," she said. "By being part of that network, we make the Sisters of the Holy Cross an international player, putting us among the groups that will shape global movement in a way we haven't been able to in the past." 

An Inside Look At ·the Do~ninican Way of Life 
You are invited to attend a week­end of prayer, reflection, and sharing at St. Catharine, Kentucky. 
November 17-19 
or NQvember 24-26 
For more information call Sister joann Mascari, OP (502) 367 -6696 


Macintosh Performa• 6214CD 
8MB RAM/1000MB hard drive, Power PC 603 processor, quadspeed CD-ROM driw, 15" color monitor, keyboard, mouse and all the softwareyvu're likely to need. 

Yours and yours alone. 




MAC. 
The awesome computer with all the bells and whistles. 

ASAP. 
We mean like yesterday. 


RIGHT NOW AT YOUR CAMPUS RESELLER. Unfortunately, they won't stay this low forever. So you need to forget about how hardyour life is for a Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh· easy. So easy, in fact, that the minute and start thinking about how easy it will be with aMacintosh.The com-Ap .. prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than their already low student prices. puter that gives you the power any student can use. The power to be your bese 
p1e1 .. 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F 9am-5pm 
Produclprices, producJ availability and saks /axes may varY: Offer expires Or:Jober 13, 1995. ©1995 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Appk, the Appk lopo, Madntosh, Madntosh Performa, PowerBook, LaserWriter Sekr:J, Color SlykWriter and "71Je power to beyour best" are regiStered trademarks ofAppk Computer, Inc. Power Maantosh and Mac are trademarks ofAppk Computer, Inc. CardShop Plus is a registered trademark oj Mindscape. All Apple'producls are designed to be accessibk to individuals with disability. 7b learn more (U.S. only)
call 80()..776-2333 or 1DD 800-833-6223. ' 
-------~---~-~ --~--~-------~-­
Monday, October 9, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Pope's farewell: Guard divine truth in today's society 
By VICTOR SIMPSON 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE Preaching in the cradle of 
U.S. Catholicism, Pope John Paul II urged the faithful Sun­day to heed America's fathers and bring reli­gious convic­tions to bear on political issues. 
On the final day of his fourth U.S. 
pilgrimage, Pope John the pope Paulll celebrated Mass from an altar in center­field, the location 100 years ago of a saloon run by Babe Ruth's father. 
"Every generation of Ameri­cans needs to know that free­dom consists not in doing what we like, but in having the right to do what we ought," John Paul said, warning of the dan­gers of a permissive society lacking a moral foundation. 
The scoreboard at Oriole Park displayed the message, "He is here," as the rock group Boyz II Men serenaded the pon­tiff touring the baseball stadium in his popemobile. The stadium had not rocked to such cheers since Cal Ripken broke Lou Gehrig's 56-year-old record of playing in 2,130 straight games 
"This is Number 1,'~ said Walter Gentile, an Orioles usher. Ripken's record-break­ing game last month? "That's Number 2." 
Three hundred gospel singers waving yellow and white Vatican flags sang the spiritual "I Want to be Ready When Jesus Comes," as the popemo­bile rounded the infield under sunny skies. 
Later, the popemobile took John Paul in a two-mile parade that police said was witnessed by around 350,000 people. He 
National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week 1995 
Mondcly, October 9 
What: Open house at the Office of 
Alcohol and Drug Education When: 10 A.M.-3 P.M. Where: Office of Alcohol and Drug 


Education 
BE(!causei we What: Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination presentation When: 8 P.M. Where: 126 DeBartolo 
Sponsored by: The Office ofAlcohol anti Drug Educatioll 
then joined 19 people in a soup kitchen for a lunch of chicken and rice casserole, peas, car­rots and chocolate chip cookies. 
''I'm enjoying myself. I wish it would go on all week," said Alphonso Alvarez, a regular at Our Daily Bread, which is run by the Catholic Church. 
John Paul bent down and kissed the foreheads of six chil­dren at the center. One child, Baltimore Cardinal William Keeler said, called the pontiff "Uncle Pope." 
The pope also visited the Basilica of the Assumption. As he was leaving, he saw a woman in a wheelchair. He clasped her hands and said, "Bless you my child." 
"I probably had some idiot grin on my face. I was awestruck. I kissed his ring and said, 'Thank you Father,' " 34­year-old Susan Grezson said later. 
At the Cathedral of Mary Our Queen, the pope challenged Catholics to defend "against those who would take religion out of the public domain and establish secularism as Ameri­ca's official faith." 
Also on his schedule was a meeting with Vice President AI Gore before boarding his TWA plane for Rome. 
John Paul delivered his sta­dium message in America's old­est Catholic diocese, one es­tablished in the 16th century by English Catholics fleeing perse­cution. 
The message was aimed at pushing Roman Catholics to raise their voices in the public policy debate, and to promote what the church holds as moral truths. 
"Can the biblical wisdom 
Homeless hope Pope's visit will help create a better life 
ByMAR,Y BOYLE 
~dated Press 
BALTIMORE 
Robert Rollins Sr. had noth· ing better to do after he was forced to leave a men's shel· ter at 6:30 a.m. Sunday than waiUn line for his next meal.He stoOd for two hours on a church hall stoop, leaning on a cane and looking out through red·rimmed eyes as much of Baltimore rolled out its finery for Pope John Paul 
II. 
't)'eah, I'd like to toueh him)' Rollins said. "You'd be a fooluot to. He's the elosest thing to God." 
Rollins, 42, was one of the 800 peedy people being served lunch at the St. Alphonsus School rather than .at th~ir usual soup kitchen a few blocks away. The school was turned into a soup kitchen for the day to make 
which played such a formative part in the very founding of your country be excluded from that debate?" John Paul asked. 
"Would not doing so mean that America's founding docu­ments no longer have any defining content, but are only the formal dressing of changing opinion? Would not doing so mean that tens of millions of Americans could no longer of­fer the contribution of their deepest convictions in the for-way for the pope at Our Daily Bread, where he dined with about 20 people who receive assistance from Catholic Charities programs. 
Although those waiting in line in stained jackets and sneakers seemed far removed from the pontifical pomp, many said the Holy Father's visit was significant and that they would like to meet the pope. 
Marvin Harvey, 37, arrived in Baltimore a few weeks ago with his girlfriend from New Jersey and has been living in an abandoned building as they both look for work. He said he would ask the pope to help the homeless find jobs and reunite broken families. 
"I'd do anything. I'd do con· struction, painting. Give me a job in a pie factory," Harvey said. "But we walk around all day and we have no place to go and no people to visit." 
mation of policy?" 
After a especially busy sched­ule in New York on Saturday, John Paul appeared less vigor­ous than he had during Mass there in Central Park. He seemed to slouch in fatigue in his green vestments as he sat on the altar. set up at the 410­foot mark in deep centerfield. 
In a week, the 75-year-old pontiff will begin the 18th year of his papacy, the second longest this century, behind Pius XII. 

Keeping Up With Its Tradition Of Bringing You The Very Best The Notre Dame African Students' Association Proudly Presents: 
A GIANT AFRICAN MODERN MUSIC CONCERT & DANCING 
Featuring: 
Foday Musa Suso and the Mandingo Griot Society 
from The Gambia {West Mrica) 
Date: Thursday October 26, 1995  
Time: 7:00 P.M.  Foday Suso on the Kora  
Venue: Stepan Center  Chuck Hosch on the Bass  
Admission: General .....• $5.00  Abdul Haakem on the Guitar  
Students ..... $3.00  Avreeayl Raamen on the Drums  
Koco Brunson on the Keyboard  
Come enjoy yourself and dance to the rhythms  Manu Washington on the Congas  
Suso & The Mandingo as they tkzringly project  
the music ofAfrica's Past into the  
music ofthe world's future!  
Do Not Miss This Unique Opportunt  The Finest Music from Africa!  

Sponsored by the Notre dame Mrican Students' Association & Various campus Institutions 
Check it out on our web a e: h :llwww.nd.edu:BOI~ndasalsuso.html 
~------~ --~­
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 9, 1995 
Russian minister threatens to disarm rebels by force 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW 
Russia's interior minister threatened Sunday to disarm Chechen rebels by force and called for the president to im­pose a state of emergency in the Caucasus republic. 
Two days after Russia's top commander in Chechnya was seriously wounded in a bomb attack,.Gen. Anatoly Kulikov told Russ"ian ·television that emergency powers are needed to "untie the hands" of his troops. 
He accused the Chechens of using peace talks to play for time to rebuild their fighting forces and demanded they hand over the people responsible for Friday's attack. The rebels deny any role in the bombing. 
Kulikov also demanded they turn in Shamil Basayev, a rebel field commander who staged a bloody hostage raid on the southern Russian town of Budyonnovsk earlier this year. 
The raid brought Russia to the negotiating table, but un­willingly. The talks resulted in a July 30 accord for partial Rus­sian withdrawal and rebel dis­armament. Neither has hap­pened. 
Kulikov said he would order his troops to disarm the rebels by force if they didn't comply quickly with the pact. On Satur­day, Defense Minister Pavel Grachev called for an end to talks and an all-out war on the rebels. 
The Chechens have long com­plained that Russia wants them to put down their guns but has no plans to fulfill its side of the accord. 

By JAVIER MAYMI 
Associated Press 

LA ROMANA, Dominican 
Republic 
A local newspaper reported that O.J. Simpson headed to the Dominican Republic on Sunday for a speedy marriage to model Paula Barbieri. But there was no sign of the former football star by late Sunday, and his top attorney denied the report. 
In a front-page report, the Listin Diario newspaper quoted unidentified sources as saying Simpson and Ms. Barbieri left L.os Angeles on Saturday for Miami and were to fly on a pri­vate plane to the Dominican Republic on Sunday. 
There was no confirmation. Dominican immigration officials would not say whether Simpson had arrived or planned to. Sev­eral Dominican airports and the U.S. Embassy also said they had no information. 
Attorney Johnnie L. Cochran denied Sunday that Simpson was on his way to the Domini­can Republic, telling KCBS-TV in Los Angeles: "No, there's no truth to that at all." Cochran, who said he spoke to Simpson on Saturday, did not return re­peated messages left by The Associated Press. 
On Sunday, Chechen rebel officials said the Friday's attack on Lt. Gen. Anatoly Romanov was a provocation planned in Moscow and aimed at derailing negotiations. 
"Simple logic shows that this terrorist act didn't do anything to help us," Movlen Salamov, an aide to separatist President Dzhokhar Dudayev, told the In­terfax news agency.· 
Romanov remained in a coma Sunday in a Moscow military hospital. He su.ffered serious head wounds in the attack Fri­day in Grozny, the Chechen capital. The blast, which offi­cials think was actually. aimed at Kulikov, killed Romanov's driver and an aide. 
Romanov is a key figure in negotiations with the rebels. The attack was the second as­sassination attempt in less than a month on a top Russian offi­cial in Chechnya. 
Yeltsin, who launched the bloody war to end the southern republic's three years of self­declared independence, was said to be considering several options for a crackdown of some sort in Chechnya. 


Simpson rumored to marry 
Tonight 
8:30p.m. ND Room (LaFortune) 
Important that all members who have not paid dues and anyone interested in the New York Trip attend. 
ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend Ronald Goldman on June 12, 1994. 
Listin Diario said its sources indicated Simpson, 48, and Ms. Barbieri left Los Angeles for Miami on Saturday. It said they were accompanied by Simpson lawyer F. Lee Bailey and friends AI "A.C." Cowlings and Roger King. 
The report said the entourage was expected to fly to an air­port in the Dominican Republic on Sunday. That was believed to be La Romana International Airport at Casa de Campo luxu­ry resort, the same one used by Jackson. 
"When celebrities come here, they get out of their planes and get into their limos. Nobody sees them," a control tower of­ficial wh9 would not give his name said Sunday night. He said half the airport was pri­vate. 
Fashion designer Oscar De Ia Renta, movie star Robert Red­ford and singers Frank Sinatra and Julio Iglesias are among celebrities who own holiday homes at the resort. 
After 8 p.m., the control tower supervisor, Boliva Acevedo Canela, announced to waiting reporters and camera crews that the airport was clos­ing for the night for main­tenance work. 
"We have no information," he said. "If a plane were to land here, Las Americas Airport in Santo Domingo would have let us know by now." 
The newspaper said the cou­ple was expected to go to the country home of a friend in the interior of the island. 
On Friday, the Italian news­paper La Repubblica quoted Ms. Barbieri's brother, Michael, as saying she and Simpson wanted to marry "soon" and that the plan angered her fa­ther. The Rome daily said Vin­cent Barbieri always opposed such a marriage and now says, "I don't have a daughter any more." 
Simpson began seeing Ms. Barbieri in 1992 after he sepa­rated from his wife. The Simp­sons divorced in December 1992. Simpson escorted Ms. Barbieri to a Beverly Hills party the night before the killings. 
Ms. Barbieri, believed to be 26 or 27, was born and raised in Florida and has known Simpson for several years. 
She has modeled for Playboy and posed for Victoria's Secret and Vogue. She also has ap­peared in United Paramount Network's "The Watcher," a TV movie in which she played a drug lord's physically abused girlfriend. 
During the trial, she visited Simpson at the Los Angeles County Jail and spoke with him on the telephone frequently. 
Last year, Barbieri told Diane Sawyer of ABC-TV's "PrimeTime" that she believed Simpson was innocent. 
Listin Diario broke the news of Michael Jackson's marriage to Lisa Marie Presley in the Dominican Republic last year. The country offers speedy mar­riages that require only one witness and -a brief ceremony in front of a judge. 
The Simpson marriage ru­mors surfaced in the Italian media Friday, three days after a Los Angeles jury acquitted Simpson in the murders of his 

FINANCE CLUB 
MEETING 
Rev. Nicholas Ayo, CSC, Associate Professor Program of Uberal Studies on 
The Hail Mary: A Verbal Icon of Mary  
Monday, Tonight ,October 9 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 7:30p.m. •  
ALL WELCOME!  
0MPUS I'V11NISTRY  

Economic powers eager to help rebuild Bosnia 

Shell hits NATO refugee camp 
By PATRI<;:K QUINN Bosnian government· rorm Rebel was a shell containing multiple Associated Press 
D Croat federation ~ Serb explosives. Two other cluster bombs hit SARAJEVO nearby Banovici and wounded 
A shell blamed on Serb three people, two of them chil­rebllls slammed into a govern­dren, radio reports said. ment-run refugee camp Sun­The attacks came as Bosnian 
day, killing at least six people government forces made gains as both sides battled for pre­against Serbs in the north and cious land and better negotiat­launched a counteroffensive in ing positions ahead of a cease­the northwest. Both sides are fire. trying to grab as much territory 
NATO deployed warplanes as possible before a U.S.-spon­but did not strike at Serb tar­sored cease-fire freezes front gets. Maj. Myriam Sochacki, a lines. The truce, a prelude to a 
li. N. spokeswoman,.said bad AP peace conference, is scheduled weather that moved in later in in Tuzla said most of the dead to take effect 12:01 a.m. Tues­the day made identifying Serb were children. A local doctor, · day (7 p.m. EDT Monday). targets difficult and led to the Duska Bericevic, told state-run The Serbs warned that the decision to have the aircraft re­radio that "the beautiful day truce was being threatened by turn to base. probably drew them out." Croatian involvement in Bosnia. 
U.N. spokesman Jim Lansdale The United Nations did not They had been making head­said between six and 10 people say who was behind the attack, way in the northwest until the were killed by the shell, which hut state radio blamed the Croatian army returned to help exploded at a refugee center in Serbs. The radio said a shell government troops. Zivinice, south of Tuzla. containing several explosives "The reinforcement ... jeop­Bosnian television said nine detonated above the refugee ardizes directly the signed were killed and 50 wounded, center, which houses mostly cease-fire," said a Serb state­
... 
25 seriously. Muslims driven from Serb-held ment carried by Yugoslavia's 
Bosnian army headquarters areas. The U.N. confirmed it Tanjug news agency. It said Serb forces "will do everything to stop the aggression" should Croatian involvement continue. 
Bosnian state radio suggested the refugee camp shelling was Serb retaliation for government army gains near Doboj, north­west of Tuzla. The radio, quot­ing army headquarters, said government forces continued advances there Sunday. 
Sochacki, the U.N. spokes­woman, said NATO "attempted to neutralize the heavy weapons firing on Tuzla," but could not because of bad visi­bility. She added that the firing stopped after the Serbs were warned "that such actions will result in NATO airs trikes." 
-~-----~ 
Monday, October 9, 1995 The Observer • BOSNIA NEWS page 7 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The world's economic powers expressed an eagerness Sunday to provide debt relief and financial assistance to rebuild war-torn Bosnia, hoping that the lure of economic aid will provide momentum for the peace process. 
Finance ministers in Wash­ington for the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank said those two giant lending agen­cies would be expected to take the lead role in providing assis­tance to Bosnia. 
"We have to consolidate the peace process. We have to re­build Bosnia quickly," French Finance Minister Jean Arthuis told reporters. 
The world's seven largest economies -the United States, Japan, Germany, France, Britain, Canada and Italy ­urged both the IMF and World Bank to quickly draw up a plan of what financial resources will be needed. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin said this study should focus on a "timely, flexi­ble and suitable" economic response to Bosnia's needs. 
In addition to financial aid, the administration made clear Sunday that President Clinton was committed to sending U.S. troops to Bosnia to help keep the peace. Leon Panetta, White House chief of staff, said on NBC's "Meet the Press," such 
U.S. military involvement "has to happen.... I don't think we can turn our backs on that." 
While Bosnian Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic has said his country will need $12 billion for postwar reconstruction, the United States and its G-7 allies were not specific on exact amounts of aid they were pre­pared to send, saying it would depend on the needs deter­mined by the IMF and World Bank. 
The issue of Bosnia was added at the last minute to the agenda for the annual meetings of the 179-nation on IMF and the World Bank. 
While the world economy is performing reasonably well, the discussions in Washington have focused on ways to better cope with problems such as the near default of Mexico last De­cember, the worst global eco­nomic crisis in more than a decade. 
The IMF's policy-setting in­terim committee was nearing agreement Sunday on a pack­age of reforms to deal with fu­ture Mexico-style crises. 
These included creation of a 
$50 billion emergency bailout 
fund, an idea being pushed by 
the Clinton administration to 
ensure that in th•3 next crisis 
the United States is not left 
scrambling to cobble together a 
relief package. -Also, the IMF was expected to 
endorse establishment of a set 
of economic statistics that 
countries will be required to 
publish on a timely basis to 
give financial markets an early 
warning of potential problems. 
On Bosnia. German Finance 
Minister Theo Waigel stressed 
that the West would expect the 
IMF and World Bank to play 
the lead role in providing what­
ever financial assistance is 
required. 


---~-~--.. 

page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 9, 1995 
Thousands march in Madrid to protest nuclear testing 
By LEON IAZAROFF Associated Press 

MADRID, Spain 
More than 10,000 people opposed to French nuclear tests marched through cen­tral Madrid on Sunday. the day before French President Jacques Chirac arrives for a visit. 
Organizers called on Spanish Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez to exert greater pressure on France to halt the nuclear tests in the South Pacific. Gonzalez currently holds the rotating presidency of the European Union. 
"President Gonzalez can do more and should do more to make it clear to Chirac that Europe ·wants the tests to stop," said Antonio Gutierrez of the Workers Commissions, one of the country's two main labor federations. 
The march was organized by a coalition of environmen­tal groups, labor unions and political parties. 
Waving placards and chant­ing slogans, protesters, many of them children and teen­agers, marched peacefully along Atocha Avenue, a main thoroughfare, toward the cen­ter of the city. 
Organizers said the protest, and others planned for Chirac's visit, are intended to pressure France to abandon all nuclear testing beneath two atolls in French Polynesia. 
Chirac's decision to conduct up to eight nuclear weapons tests has been met with inter­national condemnation. He has said when the tests are done, France will sign a nuclear test ban treaty. 
Chirac arrives Monday in Spain on Monday for a two­day visit that includes meet­ings with Gonzalez, King Juan Carlos and other government leaders. 

Kim Jong II redesigns North Korea's military 
Associated Press Party, promoted Army Chief of 
Staff Gen. Choe Gwang to the 
SEOUL, South Korea rank of marshal and named 
Signaling he is in firm con­him the new defense minister, trol, de facto North Korean they said. leader Kim Jong II has reshuf­Choe, 77. replaced Marshall fled the country's top military 0 Jin U, who died of cancer in leadership, South Korean offi­February. Choe belongs to the cials said Monday. so-called "first-generation 
The shakeup. announced two revolutionary elite" who helped days before the 50th anniver­build a personality cult around sary Tuesday of the founding of the late North Korean leader the country's ruling Workers Kim II Sung. 


Israel releases first captive 
By HILARY APPELMAN 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
After months of negotiations, Israel released the first of 2,300 Palestinian prisoners Sunday: a curly-haired teen-ager who said she didn't regret trying to stab an Israeli soldier two years ago. 
Twenty women prisoners also scheduled to be released Sun­day stayed in jail to protest Is­rael's refusal to free four oth­ers. 
Palestinian officials criticized Israel for violating the newly signed Israel-PLO agreement by not releasing the four. In the accord, signed Sept. 28 at the White House, Israel promised to release all female detainees in the first stage of a prisoner release. 
But Israeli President Ezer Weizman decided against par­doning two women convicted of murder, and Maj. Gen Ilan Hi­ran, head of the army central command, rejected the release of two others. 
"It's a bad omen for the im­plementation of the whole agreement," Saeb Erekat, Palestinian municipal affairs minister, told The Associated Press. "The agreement on this issue is black and white. Israel has no excuse whatsoever to 
Engagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price list! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 55 E. 'Kbshington, Chicago, JL 60602 For 11 Free 32-Page Color Catalog 
Toll-Free (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 Internet CtJIII/og at http: //www.UJptck.com/sapeck 
stall." 
Hisham Abdul Razek, chief Palestinian negotiator on pris­oners, said Israeli Prime Minis­~er Yitzhak Rabin had person­ally promised the women's re­lease when the two sides final­ized the autonomy accord last month. 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shi­mon Peres said Saturday that the governmeni had recom­mended all female prisoners be released, but Weizman and Hi­ran had decid-ed otherwise 
The Israel-PLO agreement also calls for an Israeli troop withdrawal from Palestinian towns in the West Bank, de­ployment of Palestinian police and Palestinian general elec­tions. 
The released prisoner, 18­year-old Bashayer Ali Abu Laben, said she had been in solitary confinement and did not know about the other wom­en's decision to stay in prison. 
"It was only when I got out­side that my family told me," Abu Laben told The Associated Press. "I felt terrible." 
Abu Laben, who was serving a seven-year sentence for at­tempting to stab a soldier two years ago in Jerusalem, said prison officials told her all the women prisoners were being released. 

Take the Syracuse Advantage! 
Internships Extensive Professional & Liberal Arts Courses 
EUROPE • AFRICA • ASIA 
Scholarships & Grants 
Division of International Programs Abroad Syracuse University, 119a Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 
1-800-235-3472 • DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu 



HOT 

Burn, baby, burn-disco inferno. 






MAC. 

Not the burger, pal-the killer computer. 

Cheap. Not as cheap as a taco, but hey. 
RIGHT NOW AT YOUR CAMPUS RESELLER. Unfortunately, they won't stay this low forever. So you need to forget about how hardyour life is for a Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh"easy. So easy, in fact, that the minute and start thinking about how easy itwill be with aMacintosh.The com-Ap 1 .. prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than their already low student prices. puter that gives you the power any student can use.The power to be your bese 
p1e.. 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-Spm 
ProducJprices, product availability andsales faxes nuzy val")'. Offer expires OckJber 13, 1995. ©1995 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved Apple, /be Apple logo, Macintosh, Macintosh Performa, PowerBook, LaserWriler Select, Color StyleWriler and 'The power to beyour best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc Power Maantosh andMac are trademarks ofApple Compuler, Inc. CardbShop Plus is a registered trademark ofMindscape. AlJ Apple'products are designed to be accessible to individuals with disability 7b learn mere (U.S. only)
callB00-776-2333 or IDD 800-833·6223. . ' 
----------~---------~---------------------------------------­

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, October 9, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995~96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor ..•..•....•....... Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ..........•.....••.... Jen Mackowiak Spona Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor .......•..•.......••..... Krista Nannery Systems Manager .............••............. Sean Gallavan Sa.int Mary'• Editor ••...••••.........•. Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independem newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sporrs Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. 
Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns prcscm the vic:ws of the authors. and not necessarily those 
of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Endowment information needs full disclosure 
Notre Dame is ranked by U.S. News & World Report (Sept. 25, 1995, 81-98) as 45th and 40th for providing the best value in terms, respectively, of its "stick­er" price and its "discount" price ("stick­er" price plus estimated expenses minus the average of need-based grants). In 1994-95, 26 percent of Notre Dame stu­dents received need-based grants, with $7,065 as the average such grant. That figure reflects the commendable efforts of Notre Dame, and especially its l'inancial Aid Office, to aid students in need. However. ther~ would be no need for "discounting" if Notre Dame's rise in tuition had not far exceeded the rate of inflation in recent 
while the C.P.I. inflation rate was only 
3.5 percent, although the annual cost increase is edging down toward the inflation figure. The average need-based grant of $7,065 to 26 percent of the stu­dents brings the total those students pay down only to $15,415, or $5,085 more than the pre-Research University figure in real money. 
2. The average and median student loan obligation of the graduates of the previous year who have such obliga­tions. Student borrowing has increased 50 percent since 1992, largely because of increased eljgibility under the federal loan program. "Borrowing to pay for 
college has soared 
years. 
in recent years, with 
Against this Federal loan pro­background, it grams disbursing would be useful for more in the last four the Notre Dame Charles years than in their Fact Sheet, which first 20, raising wor­provides a· summa­ries among educa­
Rice 

ry each fall of tors about the debt details of burden being car­University life, to ried by students and include four addi-their families." N.Y. 
tional items to enable applicants and present students to make informed decisions about the financial aspects of enrollment at Notre Darne­
l. The current tuition. room and board figure in real dollars. compared to the figure in a year e.g.. 1978-79. before Notre Dame embarked on its quest to become a National Catholic Research University. The Fact Sheet gives the unadjusted figure for 1995-96: $17,830 for undergrad tuition and $4,650 for room and board for a total of $22,480. In 1978-79 the total for tuition, room and board was $5,180. Adjusted for inflation, using the Consumer Price Index, the 1978-79 total. in 1993 dol­lars, would be $10,330. In real money, therefore, the current costs are more than double what they were before Notre Dame began its pursuit of R'esearch Prestige. The 1995-96 total figure rose by 5.9 percent over last year 
Times, Sept. 1995, p.A7. The major universities, including Notre Dame, have lobbied Congress for increased Joan limits. But as the limits go up, so does tuition, with those u~iver­sities financing their research and other expansion projects on the backs of the students. Notre Dame's financial aid usually clicks in only after the student has borrowed what he can; the universi­ty will try to help bridge the gap between the student's resources (includ­ing those loans) and the costs. The bur­den of student loans, however, has com­pelled many Notre Dame graduates to forego graduate education or communi­ty service. It has caused many to defer marriage and has made it difficult for those who do marry to remain open to having children. And for what? Research is, at best, only marginally rel­evant to undergrad education. If our leaders are going to make Notre Dame undergrads pay, in real money, twice the former tuition to finance the pursuit of Research Prestige, they ought to dis­close publicly, up front, to those appli­cants and students who are not wealthy how much debt they are likely to assume if they buy into Notre Dame. 
3. The year-by-year growth of the non-faculty University staff since 1978­
79. In 1978-79 there were 6,777 under­grads and 1, 905 graduate and profes­sional students at Notre Dame, for a total of 8,682. In 1995-96, there are 7,802 and 2,528 for a total of 10,330, an increase of 19%, with the undergrads increasing by 15 percent and the grad and professional students by 32 percent. In this period the faculty has grown pro­portionately so as to maintain a steady 1 to 12 faculty-student ratio. One statistic missing from the Fact Sheet, however, is the size and year-by-year growth of the non-faculty University staff. Since 1980, at least 22 major buildings have been added to the campus, including those under construction. Grace Hall will soon be converted from a dorm into an "administrative services building." Also, "by emptying Flanner [of students]. office space will become available for emeriti faculty, graduate students and adjunct faculty." Notre Dame Report, Jan. 20, 1995, 311. And more is to come, including a new conference/hotel facility to replace the Morris Inn, a new bookstore and, predictably, the inevitable multi-story parking garage which will symbolize the conversion of the formerly pastoral Notre Dame into a crowded urban campus-like the ones the big Research Universities have. Incidentally, about two-thirds of the stu­dent athletic fields have been paved over or built upon. This building boom seems out of proportion to the increase in stu­dents and faculty, although grad stu­dents and faculty do require office and research space. It is fair to ask: To what extent is this over-building of the cam­pus caused by increase in starr? It would promote useful discussion for the Fact Sheet to disclose the size and growth pattern of the University's non-faculty 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 

staff. 

4. Specifics on how an of the income from the Endowment is used. This past summer, the Notre Dame Endowment topped $1 billion for the first time. "Money rolled into Notre Dame's endow­ment hand over fist in the 1980s .... The fund stood at about $172 million in 1980; at the end of the decade it was $606 million .... Notre Dame spends a modest $30 million a year from the fund to support the budget.... That money is used to supplement salaries and expens­es for 115 'endowed' professors, for undergraduate scholarships, for special academic programs and for fellowships for graduate students. That $30 million is still less than 10 percent of N.D.'s annual operating budget of about $350 million." South Bend Tribune, Sept. 10, 1995, p.A17. One can hardly blame stu­dents and their families for their lack of enthusiasm at the topping of the billion mark by an Endowment which has had little or no discernible impact in pre­venting the doubling of real tuition costs over the past 17 years. The Endowment seems to have taken on a life of its own. Fairness would be served by full disclo­sure in this matter. 
Since 1978, our leaders have followed policies they see as serving the best interests of Notre Dame. Any criticism here is of policies, not persons. Those policies, however, have shifted Notre Dame from its historically primary mis­sion of making undergraduate education in the Catholic tradition accessible even to students of moderate means. Our leaders may have earned the limited approval of U.S. News, but, in various ways, their policies have served well neither the historical mission nor the students of Notre Dame. The least our leaders can do now is to make full dis­closure of what they have done in these important respects. 
Charles Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Monday. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"oneof the greatest pains to human nature is the pain of a new idea." 
-Walter Bagehot 

~ ~-~~-----··----·-----~-~-~-­
-------------~-~.. ~---·--· ... ---~----~-~-----~-­


VIEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, October 9, 1995 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
O.J. trial_ points to persistent issue of race 
l
Dear Editor: Emmit Till? He was the fourteen year old one of the rare times that we got to see jus­am writing in response to all of those that Black child· that was kidnapped from his tice served for another Black American. believe O.J. Simpson was acquitted family's home as they watched and mur­For most white students it was a Black man because of race. I am disgusted and tired of dered for supposedly looking at a white set free because he was Black. Curious isn't white students claiming to understand any­woman. All the white men accused were it? I can say from experience th~t there are thing about race, and the reactions to the acquitted by an all white jury. Why did the not many times I can name when being Simpson verdict just prove once again that judicial system not come under scrutiny Black helped me get something. Black people and whites live in two com­then? Why did America not hear cries for a No one was there on June 12, 1994. None pletely different worlds. change in the judicial system because of of us saw what really happened to Nicole 
First of all do not make the mistake of this obvious travesty of justice? Why did no Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman. The believing that this trial one blame the verdict on jurors obviously thought that there was not was not originally about race? There are countless enough evidence to send O.J. Simpson to race. As a Black woman other incidents when the jail. Keep in mind that along with the nine in America, I know all 'Jn this country race system has blatantly Black people there were two whites and too well tlrat being Black is inescapable. For slapped Black Americans one Hispanic on the jury. It only takes one has to do with everything in the face. Yet it takes the person to cause a hung jury, but all twelve
Black people it is a
that I experience in acquittal of one Black man reached a verdict in less than four hours. America. Black people plague that follows by a true jury of his peers Johnnie Cochran did not have to "play the are not allowed to live in to cause white America to race card." Tbe race card has affected all
them into every shop­
the colorless bubble that decide it's time to review Black people since we were brought to this whites do. We are always ping mall, every class­our judicial system. country. reminded that we are room, and yes--it is a Amazing isn't it? As a People are always telling me that things Black first, people sec­Black person I am not sur­are getting better. How come I can not ond. I have accepted this fear in our hearts every prised. tell? When everything is going the way as the American way, but time we are stopped by In this country race is white America wants it and Black people will not stand by idly inescapable. For Black are not making too much noise maybe while white people talk the police.' people it is a plague that there is the appearance that things are get­of how this verdict will follows them into every ting better. But the threats of increased harm race relations. shopping mall, every racial tensions by the media because of the Excuse me-have I been sleeping? I was classroom, and yes-it is a fear in our verdict shows this so called racial harmony unaware that we had relations. America is hearts every time we are stopped by the for the facade that it is. In closing I say stop still obviously segregated and racism is still police. Perhaps before being accused of complaining. Most Black people do not at the center of every Black person's life. murder, O.J. Simpson had transcended have millions to spend on a defense, so the 
For centuries whites have been acquitted race. But admit it, afterwards he was a system will continue to work in your favor. by all white jurors of lynching, kidnapping. Black man whom you believed killed two and murdering Black people when all of white people. I saw this thought repeatedly America knew they were guilty. Black in the angry faces and comments of whites Americans have stood helplessly by as over that discussed the verdict. Once again I NIKOLE SHERI HANNAH and over again they have been failed by the was reminded of how racially divided our Sophomore judicial system. Does anyone remember country is. For us Black students, it was Breen-Phillips Hall 
Incident highlights campus alcohol problems 
Dear Editor: to show them out the door. 
In light of the recent discussion concerning alcohol abuse at Drunkenness is no excuse for behavior which is verbally and/or Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, I would like to relate the following physically abusive to others. I have witnessed several incidents at incident that took place on Saturday, Sept. 23. ND parties over the years in which outright assaults and malicious 
At about 10:30 p.m., three friends and I stopped at the Wendy's destruction of property have occurred all because of intoxicated on U.S. 31 for a late meal and noticed a group of Notre Dame stu­people who were unable to control their aggressive behavior. I dents -three men and two women -seated at one of the tables. also have friends who. came close to being, or were, sexually They waved at us as we took our seats and began asking us which assaulted by drunk men at these parties. While the incident at residence halls we lived in, what we were studying, and so forth. Wendy's was far less serious than those described above, I feel it We responded in a friendly manner, but it quickly became appar­is just another version of the same problem. ent that we were being ridiculed and insulted. The tendency to become aggressive and hostile toward others 
We did our best to ignore their obnoxious behavior, but they when under the influence of alcohol is not something to be taken continued harassing us relentlessly and then proceeded to hassle lightly. Individuals who exhibit such behavior might be better off and taunt a young woman and her sleeping baby who were seated refraining from or limiting alcohol consumption in the future. nearby. I had had enough at this point and got up to complain to "Mean drunks" are a nuisance at best; at worst, they are a danger the manager. The one sober individual in this group stopped me to others as well as to themselves. on my way to see the manager and apologized for her friends' behavior, explaining that they were "really drunk". Fortunately, KELLY SMITH the group left of their own accord just as the manager was about South Bend 

Ignorance no excuse for lack of religious understanding 
T
Dear Editor: feeling like some people thought this or the year before when I said I was received thus far. It will be very difficult he Jewish High Holidays began last was just an excuse for me to skip class! I Jewish? Did they forget? Didn't they for me to graduate and leave this com­week with Rosh Hashanah and end was really getting annoyed until one know what people did all over the world munity at the end of this year. I know a this week with Yom Kippur. Rosh professor wished me a during those days? few bad apples can spoil the crowd, but Hashanah is the Jewish New Year and a Happy New Year. Maybe they didn't we shouldn't need to rely on trite say­time for reflection on the past year and Several of my friends know there were any ings such as that to explain some of the looking forward to the next. Yom did the same. I realized of us in the communi­behavior I encountered last week. 
'Help me make a
Kippur, The Day of Atonement, is proba­some people did under­ty. Maybe they knew, Help me make a change. Help our­
change. Help 

bly the highest holy day of the Jewish stand. However, I did but they didn't know selves. We are similar in more ways year. Yom Kippur is our time to make take some time out to ourselves. We are simi­what to say? than we are different. I felt like I had amends and to ask God for forgiveness. think about what had Ignorance is not an suffered a loss last week. I felt as though
lar in more ways than 
Jews all over the world celebrate during happened to me. The excuse. I'm tired of I had lost faith in a seemingly supportive this time of the year and that is no majority of the people I we are different. I felt having to explain that, community. But, what happened to me exception in the Notre Dame/Saint had come in contact yes I am an actual last week encouraged me to write this
like I had suffered a
Mary's Community. with during those days Jewish student at letter and show this community that we I spent the High Holy days in services had expected me to go loss last week. I felt as Saint Mary's College. I are indeed members of this community. all day. I missed all my classes on those on with normal life. know I decided to Don't ignore us. Don't forget about us.
though I had lost faith 
days to attend my religious services. I Normal life for them come to a Catholic In the words of Elie Wiesel, "There are prayed all day with the congregation maybe ... in a seemingly support­school for my educa­victories of the soul and spirit. Because and fasted with the congregation during Iput my work, academ­ive community. But, tion, but I also knew ofthese, sometimes when you lose, you Yom Kippur. I had gone to the appropri­ic, and social life on Christianity was based win." Let us all help each other to win..
what happened to me
ate office to receive excuses from my hold for a few days of on Judaism. I thought We are all God's people. Finally, I want classes. That was the easy part. When I solemn and much need­last week encouraged a Catholic community to thank those of you who recognized returned to class after Rosh Hashanah I ed prayer for holidays would welcome some­me and acknowledged the fact that I am
me to write this letter.' 
received mixed responses. One smartly which mean so much one who practiced the Jewish. It means more to me than you commented, "I never knew you were a more to me than I could values and morals in could possibly ever know. Jew." A Jew? I felt like asking if they possibly ever write. which their own faith had a problem with that, but I was not Why were so many peo-was founded. Was I in the mood to argue someone's igno­ple ignorant about my faith? Didn't they wrong? Please tell me I was not. rance so I let it slide. Another just know what the Star of David meant that lam proud of my faith and happy with NAOMI UNGER KUCIKAS asked, "How was your day off?" Well, I I had worn around my neck since fresh­the decision to attend Saint Mary's. I Senior didn't just have the day off. I started man year? Didn't they hear me last year am happy with the education I have Regina Hall 




Irish erupt for 15 points in final 1:24 following crucial Husky turnovers  
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Editor With just under four minutes to play Saturday, a loss for Notre Dame loomed like the thick Seattle cloud cover over Husky Stadium. But the Irish players didn't blink. In fact, by the time those four minutes had elapsed, they were smiling, high-fiving each other, even laughing. And why not? It was almost comical the way Notre Dame scored 15 points in the final 1 :24 to secure a 29-21 comeback victory over Washington. "This is a big win," defensive coordinator Bob Davie said. "We talked about getting over the hump. This was a hump game today." Before Saturday's game, the Huskies had won 32 of their last 34, including nine straight over ranked opponents. Notre Dame's win went a long way towards building some confidence. "The things we tried to talk about was you gotta believe," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "If you believe, follow the plan and believe in the plan, good things will happen." The Little Engine that Could, a.k.a. Notre Dame, needed a few breaks to keep their beliefs alive and their fears from being realized. But the comedy of errors the Irish played wit­ness to in the waning minutes was far more than they bargained for. "Until right at the end there were no turnovers," Holtz quipped, "then the next thing you know, we have them all over." see IRISH I page 2  
• JOCK STRIP Old-time luck of the Irish returns at a crucial time  , 1 ~  

S
SEATTLE omething had to go right eventually. 
After all, if you outgain a team by 100 yards, in a just society you deserve to win. 
However, for the first 


three-and-a-half quarters 
Tim Seymour 

on Saturday, Husky Stadium was a microcosm of Associate Stalinist Russia. Sports Editorr Performance was rewarded with a quick trip to the gulag. 
Derrick Mayes started ofT in his customary. spectacular fashion, catching a 39-yard bomb that he legitimately had no right to. From that moment on, though, it was not the same Derrick Mayes. Gloved hands petrified into concrete claws. 
Mayes fumbled once and dropped two cru­cial passes. That happens as frequently as Seattle street 
see SEYMOUR/page 3 

.------------­
Monday, October 9, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 




Denson's big play potential realized in Notre Dame win 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Spons Editor 
SEATTLE 
Not many would have ex­pected it from him, at least not yet. 
But with the clock under two minutes and the game on the line, coach Lou Holtz made the call from the press box-pitch right for D~nson. 
That's right. Denson, as in true freshman tailback Autry. 
"It feels good for coach Holtz to have confidence in my abili­ties," Denson said. 
There is ample reason for that confidence, as Denson showed Saturday in Notre Dame 29-21 thrilling victory over the Huskies of Washington. 

In particular, Denson's seven­yard touchdown run late in the fourth quarter was a clear demonstration that the Florida native is ready for the pressure that is Notre Dame football. 
With 1:51 remaining at Husky Stadium, Washington, leading 21-14, got into punt formation, and it looked as if the Irish were going to have to rely on an aerial attack to get them­

The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

The Irish offensive line, including Ryan Leahy (72) and Mike Doughty (73), were an integral part of the rushing success of Autry Denson. 
However, a muffed punt gave the Irish the ball at the 18-yard line. Importantly, it allowed Notre Dame to play to its strength, ramming the ball down opponents. 
Denson had run hard all day long and with starter Randy Kinder nursing a sore shoulder on the sideline, it was no great surprise that the first play of the potential game-winning drive went to him. 
It was rather shocking though that when the Irish got inside the ten, it was Denson who got the call. 
With all the Irish weaponry on the offensive side of the ball with people like Derrick Mayes and Marc Edwards, few ex­pected the hero to be the fresh­man, but Holtz saw something, namely, desire and maturity. 
"I had probably my best week of practice last week," Denson explained. ''I'm beginning to make the mental adjustments that a running back needs like picking up the blitz and making reads." 
Denson's favorite literary ex­ercise of the entire week though had to be reading the giant 'Washington' in the pur­ple paradise that is the south end zone of Husky Stadium af­ter scoring the touchdown that put the Irish to within one of the Huskies. 
With 1:21 left, Denson took a pitch from Ron Powlus and swept to right. After picking up a key Marc Edwards block and breaking a tackle at the six, Denson drive carried him to the 

The Observer/Kevin Klau 
Freshman tailback Autry Denson was one of Saturday's many heroes, 
as he scored the late touchdown that brought the Irish to within one. 
promised land. Great back, as in running 
"I got great blocks from my back, not defensive back. fullback and from Charles After the debacle in the Stafford," Denson offered. defensive backfield against "From there it was one-on-one, Ohio State, there was substan­who wants it most." tial discussion of moving 
With the aid of a strong push Denson, one of the Notre by the Irish offensive·Iine, it Dame's best athletes back to was Denson. cornerback. Saturday's 70­
"0ur offensive line was exe-yard performance and gritty cuting down in the trenches, play put an end to that talk. driving guys off the ball and ''I'm a running back," Denson creating holes," explained Ed-explained. ''I'm not moving wards, who benefitted to the anywhere." tune of 90 yards. "Plus, Autry Except on to bigger and bet-Denson is a great back." ter things. 
Irish 
continued from page I 

It all started when Irish receiver Derrick Mayes fumbled on the Husky 26-yard line. Washington's Ink Aleaga recovered the loose ball with 3:63 remaining to end an Irish scoring threat and to temporarily protect a 21-14 Husky lead. 
Notre· Dame's defense held on the ensuing series, forcing Washington to punt after three plays. But Husky punter John Wales dropped the snap and was decked by a host ·of Notre Dame players. led by Mark Monahan, at Washington's 19. 
Four plays later, freshman Autry Denson scored on a seven-yard run to narrow Washington's lead to one. A coverage blunder by the Huskies left Mayes wide open on the two-point con­version play, and quarterback Ron Powlus hit in the corner of the end zone to give the Irish a 22-21 lead. 
"Right away I noticed no one was on him and I actually thought for a second, 'Should I send the motion, should I snap it right away or what?" a smiling Powlus said. "I didn't want to stare too long and give away what I was seeing." 
Mayes had two touchdown catches on the day, giving him 20 for his career. That sets a new record, topping Tom Gatewood's mark of 19, set between 1968-71. 
But his seven-catch, 132-yard perfor­mance was marred by the fumble and a couple of dropped passes. 
"It's not the way I really envisioned (breaking the record)," Mayes said. ·It's not·the· way Washington envi­sioned losing either. 
"We had a chance to move up (in the polls) and found a way not to do it," Husky head coach Jim Lambright said. "These are things you build a program on. That's why it hurts so much." 
Still, Washington had the ball and a 
chance to win with just over a minute 
remaining. Huskies quarterback Damon 
Huard scrambled for 26 yards to the 
Irish 33, putting them nearly within field 
goal range. 

"The game reminded me a lot of 
Boston College," offensive guard Ryan Leahy said, thinking back to Notre Dame's 41-39 loss two years ago. "I was pretty worried." 
Luckily for Notre Dame, Huard was no Glenn Foley, and Allen Rossum had bet­ter hands than Pete Bereich. Rossum intercepted Huard's next pass and ran it back 76 yards for the convincing score. 
"They told me after the game that I should have dropped down, but that was the furthest thing from my mind," Rossum joked. "I just wanted the touchdown, I guess." 
The Irish comeback offset a 32-carry, 171-yard performance by Rashaan Shehee, who bettered his career high by 120 yards in his first collegiate start. He was the Huskies' main offensive threat, scoring on a one-yard plunge in the first quarter and again on 22-yard jaunt in the fourth to put Washington up by a touchdown, 21-14. 
r=~--~~~~~----~------------~~ 
Huard finished the day 10-of-13 for 109 yards, a touchdown, and the crucial interception. 
Notre Dame had its troubles in the red zone, squandering two opportunities that could have made a last-minute comeback unnecessary. Powlus was intercepted by Reggie Davis in the end zone to halt an 11-play, 40-yard drive that lasted until the first play of the fourth quarter. 
Powlus finished the day 12-of-28 for 197 yards and two touchdowns. But the interception along with some poor throws made for a rather lackluster afternoon. 
"I just couldn't throw today," he said after the game. 
The Irish really didn't need him in the first quarter, though. Randy Kinder and Marc Edwards were running at will through gaping holes made by Notre Dame's offensive line. 
Notre Dame's first scoring drive was nine plays and 92 yards. Seven of the plays were rushing plays. Of course, the two pass plays were a 39-yard comple­tion from Powlus to Mayes, who made a· tremendous grab after being hit on the play and a ten-yard dart from Powlus to Mayes to give Notre Dame a 7-0 lead. 
Washington answered with a nine­play drive of their own, capped ofT with Shehee's first touchdown run. 
The Irish had a chance to go into the locker room with a 10-7 lead, but Kevin Kopka missed on a 30-yard attempt to keep the scored tied. 
"I felt that the missed field goal was a critical point in the game," Holtz said. But not quite as critical as a bobbled punt snap and an interception. 'Til remember this game for the rest of my life," Leahy said. The Huskies will see it in their night­mares. 
•·· . ·••. . ·/ > ••• >. Coac~g.A
· .Lou }{olt~told his play~l'S to believe. Bob the defense upbeat late in the game, An ·e),perie:nce~ct stafflike Notre Dame's owns big games. 
Overall Grade 3.26 
.· bu~ Qne ~q:Oetheless. A definite though they shouldn't need it for · · ··Mike Norbut 
-------------------------~--~---------........---~---"'-------~~------~-­
page 3 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Monday, October 9, I995 



Defensive execution in clutch boosts confidence 
Rossum s inter­ception caps solid perfromance for Irish defense. 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Spons Editor 
SEATTLE 

In last season's opener at Northwestern, rumor had it that Irish quarterback Ron Powlus, after thro'hing for four touchdowns in his debut, was taking a quiet stroll after the game. On Lake Michigan. 
llad he tried to duplicate the feat Saturday on Lake Washington adjacent to scenic Husky Stadium, chances are he would have sunk. 
With the tandem of Powlus and split end Derrick Mayes struggling through its combined worst game in two years, the focus in the crucial moments in Notre Dame's 29-2 I victory shifted to an unlikely cast of characters -the Irish defense. 
Much maligned for its inabil­ity to make big plays in crucial situations, the defense stood and delivered during crunch time to manufacture a much needed victory. . 
"We're starting to play a lot better on defense, to execute better, and to start making big plays," said outside linebacker Bert Berry, who was in on ten tackles. 
It wasn't the number of big plays that was impressive, it was the timing. 
Down a touchdown and driv­ing with five minutes left, Powlus connected with Mayes 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
Kory Minor (4) and Renaldo Wynn swarmed to the ball well, as they each recorded 1.5 tackles for losses. Their pressure was a prime reason why Husky quarterback Damon Huard threw for just 109 yards. 
over the middle deep in Husky territory. 
After eluding one tackler, though, a swarm of Huskies arrived at the scene, stripping the ball and seemingly taking the wind out of the Irish. 
With their backs against the wall, however, the defense re­sponded. 
"We were thinking, 'Let's go out there and get off the field,"' ered by a host of Irish tacklers. explained Berry. "Let's make a Lyron Cobbins, who led the name for ourselves." Irish with 13 tackles. penetrat­
Their names were tattooed ed the backfield to make the permanently on the jersey of initial hit on the first two plays. Washington tailback Rashaan Cobbins has quietly become a Shehee, who up until that point force at his inside linebacking had run roughshod over the position, leading the team with Irish for a career high 191 69 tackles. yards. However, on three Notre Dame wasn't finished straight carries he was smoth-harassing the Huskies yet. 
Facing the onslaught of a fierce rush, Husky punter John Wales bobbled a wobbly snap. turning the ball over to the Irish on the Husky 14. 
"That was the key series, af­ter Derrick fumbled, they went three and· out and we blocked the punt," said Irish defensive coordinator Bob Davie. "When things start going good, we get our confidence back -you can see it on the field." 
No one was a bigger recipi­ent of that boost in confidence than cornerback Allen Rossum. The sophomore had been strug­gling with his coverages throughout the season, but con­tinued his penchant for making the big play with a back-break­ing 76-yard interception return for a touchdown with 28 sec­ondsremaining. 
"(The pass) came to me and the only thing I was thinking was get into the end zone," said Rossum. "We have certain playmakers, and I just hap­pened to be the one today." 
Rossum's pick averted a last second disaster for the Irish, as the Huskies had moved into field goal range following a 26­yard tackle by quarterback Damon Huard. 
"If it comes down to it, the defense can get it done," said Rossum. "At the end of the game, we'll be there to win it." 
"After the game one of the players came up to me and said that (Russum's interception) cut two hours off of the flight," said Davie. "I replied that if he hadn't made that play, I was probably going to take the bus." 
With its newfound confidence, one would think that the flight home went all too quickly for the Irish defense. 



PREV· TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 
1. Florida St. (40) 5-0-0 1527 1 2. Nebraska (16) 5-0-0 1490 2 3. Florida (2) 5-0-0 1406 3 4. Ohio State 5-0-0 1386 5 5. Southern Cal 5-0-0 1321 5 6. Tennessee 5-1-0 1187 10 7. Auburn 4-1-0 1177 11 8. Kansas State 5-0-0 1044 13 9. Colorado 5-1-0 1017 4 10. Kansas 5-0-0 895 24 11 . Michigan 5-1-0 809 7 12. Alabama 4-1-0 765 16 13. Oklahoma 4-1-0 757 14 14. Northwestern 4-1-0 682 25 15. Oregon 4-1-0 663 17 16. Stanford 4-0-1 565 19 
17. Notre Dame 4-2-0 508 23 
18. Texas 4-1-0 490 20 19. Virginia 5-2-0 482 9 20. Penn State 3-2-0 447 12 21. Wisconsin 2-1-1 385 22 22. Texas A&M 2-2-0 360 8 23. Iowa 4-0-0 199 24. Washington 3-2-0 103 15 25. Texas Tech 2-2-0 81 
• By the Book 
TEAM STATISTICS 

NO  uw  
First downs  22  19  
Rushes-yards  50·212  41·195  
Passing yards  197  109  
Comp·att·inl  12·28·1  10·13·1  
Return yards  199  110  
Fumbles-lost  1·1  1·1  
Penallies-yards  8·56  5·50  
Punts-ave  4·32  5·42  
3rd down conv  12·20  4·10  
4th down conv  0·0  0·1  
Possession lime  32:38  27:22  

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 
RUSHING· 

Notre Dame: Edwards 15·91, Denson 13·70 HD. Kinder 13·50, Mosley 1-19, Powlus 7·5, Stokes 1·2. 
Washington: Shehee 32·171 2TD, Thomas 4·28, Huard 4·10, Wales 1-(mlnus 14). 
• Scoring Summary 
SCORE BY QUARTERS 
1  2  3  4  F  
Notre Dame  7  0  0 22  29  
Washington  7  0  7  7  21  

SCORING SUMMARY 

FIRST QUARTER Notre Dame 7, Washington 0 Mayes 10 pass from Powlus (Kopka kick) at 5:08 (9 plays, 92 yards, 4:22 elapsed). Key Play: Powlus hit Mayes for 39 yards to the Washington 39. 
Notre Dame 7, Washington 7 Shehee 1 run (Wales kick) at :42 (9 plays, 68 yards, 4:26). Key Play: Thomas ran up the middle for 20 yards to give the Huskies a 1st &goal. 
SECOND QUARTER 
No scoring. 
THIRD QUARTER 

Washington 14, Notre Dame 7 DeSaussure 13 pass from Huard (Wales kick) at 4:44 (8 plays, 72 yards, 3:10). Key Play: A well­covered Dave Janoski caught a 
PASSING· 

Notre Dame: Powlus 12·28·1-197 2TD. 
Washington: Huard 10·13·1-1091TD. 
RECEIVING· 

Notre Dame: Mayes 7·132 2TD, Chryplawicz 2·31, Mosley 2·29, Edwards 1·5. 
Washington: Shehee 3·20, Janoski 2-34. Thomas 2·8, Conwell 1·22, DeSaussure 1·13 1TD, Coleman 1-12. 
TACKLES· 

Notre Dame: Cobbins 13, Berry 10 (1/2 sack), Moore 7, Wooden 7, Magee 5, Covington 4, Rossum 4 (1 lnl, 1 TO), Wynn 4 (1 sack), Monahan 3, Minor 3, Tatum 3, Bennett 2. Mltoulas (1 cause fum), Kopka 1, Quist 1, Thorne 1. Grasmanls 1 (1/2 sack), Carretta 0 (1 fum rae). 
Washington: Milloy 14, Fiala 13, Parrish 10. Aleagail 7 (1 fum rec). Malloe 7, Richie 7, Chorak 6, Reser 6, Ewallko 3 (1 sack), Greenlaw 3, Hoffmann 3, Davis 2, Hollimon 2, Binkley 1, Campbell 1, Jones 1, Beau pain 1, Qusada 1. 
perfect pass from Huard at the Irish 19. 
FOURTH QUARTER 
Notre Dame 14, Washington 14 Mayes 30 pass from Powlus (Kopka kick) at 9:40 (7 plays, 67 yards, 1 :31 ). Key Play: Mayes hauled in an 18-yard pass from Powlus on a key 3rd & 10. 
Washington 21, Notre Dame 14 Shehee 22 run (Wales kick) at 6:06 (7 plays, 77 yards, 3:34). Key Play: Shehee gained 20 yards on a reverse to the Notre Dame 45. 
Notre Dame 22, Washington 21 Denson 7 run (Kopka kick) at 1 :24 (4 plays, 18 yards, 1 :22). Key Play: Wales fumbled the punt snap and was decked at the Irish 19. 
Notre Dame 29, Washington 21 Rossum 76 interception return (Kopka kick) at :28. Key Play: Rossum's interception to stop a Husky drive and put the Irish up by 8. 
Seymour 
continued from page 1 
corners go unadorned by coiTee shops. The same bizarre phenomenon affected quar­terback Ron Powlus. 
In his self-proclaimed worst game at Notre Dame, Powlus consistently underthrew wide open receivers. 
Despite these problems, though, the Irish were still dominating the game into the fourth quarter with very little to show for it. 
Then it happened. Call it fate, call it luck, but it was clear that finally the ball took a bounce that favored the Irish. 
Precisely, that fortuitous bounce occurred at the feet of Husky punter John Wales. 
Perhaps it was nerves, perhaps it was the strange rotation of the ball, perhaps it was the lack of game experience of a previously second string punter. 
Whatever the reason, Wales muiTed it and was met by a host of Irish. 
·' 

At that point, the Irish desperately needed a break. Drive after drive had stalled, more due to Notre Dame errors than any Husky defensive effort. 
Few expected that the storied luck of the Irish would return 2000 miles from home. But no one was complaining that it was back. 
And over the next two minutes, that luck went after the Huskies with a vengeance. 
Mayes' catch for the go-ahead two point con­version was a prime example. Standing alone in the flat, Mayes' snapped his fingers at Powlus with more verve than a four-member a cappella group. Still, no defenders responded to cover Notre Dame's most potent threat, bad game or no. 
The Huskies later blamed a blown coverage, a zone that did not expand. But too many blown plays occurred in those last two minutes for a team to realistically self-distruct. 
Not that the Irish didn't go after the win with everything they had at the end. They were just 
. _,.... helped by some higher power. An interception that hits Allen Rossum in the numbers. A fum­bled kick-oiT that removes the possibility of last play heroics. The best way to win is to be lucky and good. 
. "· =­
r 
Monday, October 9, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page4 


The Observer/Brent Tadsen Husky tailback Rashaan Shehee goes airborn in scoring one of his two touchdowns. In his first career start, the freshman torched the Irish defense for 171 yards on the ground. 
Notre Dame 29 Washington 21 
Husky Stadium October 7, 1995 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen The pageantry that is college football was on full display Saturday in Husky Stadium (above). So was the punt returner that is Emmett Mosley. The junior, shown here about to break free, returned three punts for 104 yards (below). 


• Game Notes 
By MIKE NORBUT lowing the game. In fact, there was Sports Editor almost too much covering up of teammates. "I slipped trying to Ryan Leahy had quite a group of break on the ball," running back fans present at Husky Stadium Richard Thomas said of Damon Saturday. Huard's late interception. "If I hadn't 66 to be exact. slipped, I probably would have The Yakima, Wash. native provided caught it." "Since no one else is tickets for 42 of his closest relatives here, I'll take the blame," said and friends. The other 24 had to find Lawyer Milroy, who led the Huskies some on their own. with 14 tackles. "When we lose, it 
But they got in to Husky Stadium, hurts, point blank." and saw Leahy and his fellow line­men at their best. Pennant Fever: Seattle is so taken 
"We have a very physical offensive in by the Mariners, baseball's under­line," Leahy said. "And that's a cred­dogs, that many had forgotten that it to the best line coach in the nation, there was a football game. "You're Joe Moore." from Chicago?" a local asked a con­
Notre Dame piled up 409 yards of spicuously dressed Notre Dame fan. total offense, 212 of them on the "Why are you here? The White Sox ground. Autry Denson, Randy Kinder aren't in it. and Marc Edwards saw plenty of day­"Oh yeah, U-dub's playing. Go light through the trenches. Huskies, and go Mariners!" 
"We did open some very big holes, Go have another. but that's not to take anything away from the University of Washington," Injury Report: Receiver Derrick Leahy said. "They have some great Mayes suffered a bruised elbow and players." left Husky Stadium with his arm in a 
One of them was defensive tackle sling. Nose guard Paul Grasmanis sat Steve Hoffman, whom Leahy has out much of the second half with known for a few years now. knee problems, as did Randy Kinder, 
''I've known him for five years now, who suffered a sprained shoulder. just from recruiting visits," the offen­sive guard said. "I got to talk to him Record Breakers: Besides Mayes a little bit." becoming the career touchdown 
Probably not too much during the leader at Notre Dame, quarterback game, though. Ron Powlus is rapidly approaching the record books as well . 
Long Ride: Think defensive coordi­.He now has 27 touchdown passes nator Bob Davie was a little nervous for his career, making him fourth all­in the final minute Saturday? "One time. Rick Mirer holds the record of the players commented to me with 41 TD passes. about how Rossum's interception cut about two hours off this flight," he Apple Polishing: Russell Katz, the said. I said, 'Listen, I was probably sports editor of the UW Daily, wrote going to go by bus if he didn't get in a column, "Notre Dame could be 0­that interception." 5, but it's still Notre Dame. They are 
college football." Passing the Buck: There was none That guy from Ohio State should of it in Washington's locker room fol-take a lesson. 
-






ACC~NT 
Monday, October 9, 1995 




he P 
Campus Ministry gives new meaning to the phrase 
'power lunch' with its 45 minute discussions on the Catholic faith By MIKE JACCARINO Accent Writer 
A
·avvy businessman tightens his tie, making sure it lies upon his white starched shirt 
md is not hidden by his suit jacket. OfT he 
walks, passing through the streets of down­
own to do a power lunch with some corpo­rate executives. As the young man sits down to order, two students, a young woman and her friend, walk to a power lunch as well. Unlike the businessman, how­ever, the power in tlwir lunch will not be in the three­piece suits or the titles retained by the executives who wear them, but in the answers to the questions they will ask. 
For the longest time, as known to the gang down on Wall Street, a power lunch was an occasion meant for a little networking, corporate schmoozing and once in a great while a furtive handshake to seal a deal. Beginning last spring in the old faculty lunch room of the South Dining Hall, two pilot trials forever changed the meaning of a power lunch on the University of Notre Dame's campus. You no longer needed to tight­en your tie and get a two-dollar shoeshine from a man on the corner of the street for these lunches. All you needed for this power lunch was some questions and desire to learn about that which makes us believe. 
Conceived by John and Sylvia Dillon, Kate Barrett, and Darrell Paulsen. the idea for power lunches sprung from a need to answer the questions of stu­dents who want to know more about their faith and more particularly, why Christians do what they do dur­ing mass and in lire: Many students who attend the power lunches already are strong in their faith but are oftentimes not quite sure how religion fits into their lives and expresses their faith. Some of those in atten­dance have participated in the liturgy their entire lives but are just now coming to question the meaning behind the rituals and tradition they have adhered to for so long. 
. Power lunches, however, are not meaningful solely for those with questions. The lecture given at the start of the lunch and the handouts available endeavor to convey an awareness of the subtler aspects and the beauty of the religion sometimes not possessed even by those with a deep understanding of the faith. Those in attendance for the October 6 lunch focusing upon sacramentality learned the origin of why Christians place their hands together to pray and the meaning 


r 

C
onceived by John and Sylvia Dillon, Kate Barrett, and Darrell Paulsen, the idea for power lunches sprung from a need to answer the questions of stu­dents who want to know more about their faith and more particularly, why Christians do what they do during mass and in life. 
behind the lighting of vigil candles. 
The lunch is held at 12:15 p.m. Fridays in the faculty lunch room on the second floor of the South Dining Hall. They span forty-five minutes so as not to inter­fere with afternoon classes, but most times partici­pants linger behind in further discussion of what was talked a about. Students walk the steps to the second floor after getting their lunch trays or a grab-and-go. The lunch begins with a prayer and is followed by a short lecture on the topic chosen for that day. A spirit­ed lecture is given by either Sylvia, John, Kate, or Darrell, all of whom are in attendance and often add their own personal experiences to the discussion. 
page ll 


unch 
Time is allotted for the students to ask questions per­taining to the lecture or on a diiTerent subject. Most questions and topics of discussion center around God's presence inside of Christians and in the world around them. 
All four of the creators of the power lunch speak of the overwhelming amount of support received by the Campus Ministry Program and the feeling of satis­faction garnered from watching studHnts better com­prehend the meaning of their faith through the power­lunch team's efforts. And the power lunches are not the only program the members of this group work with. Sylvia and John are also involved in the Marriage Preparation Program while Darrell teaches religious education and Kate is the director of the Right of Christian Initiation for Adults. 
Lunch is finished and both the businessmen and the students walk off to embrace the remainder of the afternoon. Downtown, their ties finally loosened and shoes still shined, they pass through the steets remem­bering the handshakes they exchanged and the con­tacts they can now call upon. There's more power in their hands from the lunch. Far from downtown on the campus, the students walk ofT from lunch as well, and like the businessmen having had some questions answered, some contacts made, and a little more power of a different kind--about that which makes us believe. 
• DAYS OF OUR LIVES UPDATE 
Sammy Schemes Away 
By ERIN KELSEY and CHRISTINA FTICSAR Days of Our Lives Correspondents 
W
ait a minute!. What's more 
important, O.J. or Bo? 

Marcia Clark or Carrie -Brady? Jonnie Cochran or John Black'! According to the mass 
public, apparently O.J. is; according to 
''Days" fans, it might be a tie, but more 
likely "Days" will win out. After all, the 
O.J. trial was very similar to something we might have seen on "Days." It had romance and danger. jealousy and hatred. leather gloves and hats. But. was it w6rth interrupting a perfectly good day in a week chock full of events that had twice the drama, with none of the pain. From now on, we think it would be better if people, like O.J., try· lng to bre1tk into the main-stream aet­ing society, would not simulate soap opera conditions to demonstrate their talent, but simply audition like every· one else. Although, casting directors had to be impressed by O.J.'s acting ability -maybe he should be given a role on "Days." 
So, what did O.J. interrupt this week? Well. Carrie agreed to tell Austin that she was dating Lucas so that be would "move on" to Sammy. Unfortunately what Lucas and Sammy did not take into account in their plan was how incredibly crappy the alternative to Carrie (free and thin) was. Sammy (~Ball and Chain," psycho, pregnant girl) is not someone you simply "move on" to; it would take more drugs, a big shove in her direction, and Carrie's death for Austin to go willingly. While Lucas and Sammy were activating their "Wonder-Twin Power" plan, Austin found a letter from Billie telling him to get Carrie back. Austin tried, but ended up fighting with "his own broth· er" over Carrie. 
Speaking of psycho planners, Tony is in big trouble. He confessed his plan to set John up for a murder in Salem. Unfortunately. the person he confessed to was Father Francis. Father Francis called him by name, and when Tony realized who it was, they both jumped out of the confessional ready to con· front each other. It looked like Father Francis was a goner, but Tony remem­bered that what he told ip confession was confidential, so he didn't have to kill him. But, Father Francis vowed to stop Tony from executing his plan. Tony's blood disease must be affecting his breathing patterns, because this week it was very difficult for him to breath and talk at the same time. Christina suggested that he may have just been constipated, but who knows what all Mylocisticfibrosis affects. 
Who are Lexy's parents? In some 
kind of volunteer program at the hospi· 
tal, they tested Lexy's blood against her 
parents' and found they didn't match. 
Jonah assured Lexy that this meant she 
was adopted. Lexy didn't know what. to 
think and ran to Celeste for the 
answers. But, as anyone can tell you, 
Celeste hasn't answered a question 
honestly since the mid 80's, so Lexy 
didn't have much of a chance. 
Caroline, however, did share interest· 
ing information. Lexy's parents went 
east for a year and when they came 
home, they had Lexy. It is possible, 
then. that she was adopted. We think it 
is more than possible; Lexy was adopt· ,.ed and Celeste is her mothor! 
Keep your input coming! E'mail "Days of Our Liz,es· Central at Christina.N.Fticsar.l@nd. edu 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 9, 1995 
•NFl 

-
E~pansion Jaguars tally second victory over ailing Steelers 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 
This was supposed to be an automatic loss for the Jacksonville Jaguars. Expansion teams aren't expect­ed to beat Super BowL con­tenders. The Pittsburgh Steelers were going to blitz the Jaguars back to reality a week after the first victory in fran­chise history. 
Surprise! 
Jacksonville made it two wins in a row Sunday with a stun­ning 20-16 triumph over the Steelers, who drove into Jaguars' territory three times in the final nine minutes -getting as close as the 7-yard line ­but failed to score. 

"To be the best, you have to beat the best," Jaguars coach Tom Coughlin said. "That's the way we looked at it." 
The Jaguars (2-4) rallied to win at Houston 17-16 the previ­ous week, but this one carried more meaning. After all, the Oilers were 2-14 last season, while Pittsburgh was an AFC­best 12-4. 
"This is much better," cornerback Mickey Washington said. "This is a big plus for the team, especially the young guys who maybe didn't have much faith or didn't have anything to relate to." 
Mark Brunell, who took the quarterback job from Steve Beuerlein by coming off the bench to throw a last-minute touchdown pass in the victory over the Oilers, threw for 189 yards and a touchdown. He was sacked four times, but also managed to scramble to 44 yards. 
"With a win like this comes a lot of confidence," Brunell said. ''I'm gaining confidence in my own ability and with those around me. Everyone is becom­ing more familiar with each other and that's helping. I'm excited with the direction we're going." 
So are the fans, who at the beginning of the season were just happy to have an NFL team after nearly two decades of seeking one. Now, the fans are setting their sights higher. 
"Wild card! Wild card!" many in the crowd of 72,042 chanted as the Jaguars strutted off the field to the Queen song "We Are The Champions." 
Coughlin was criticized by some when he benched Beuerlein without letting him play an entire game. But Brunell made the decision look good, directing the Jaguars to 267 yards -52 above their league-low average -and the most points in franchise history despite steady pressure from the "Blitzburgh" Steelers. 
Afterward, the mood was especially solemn in the Pittsburgh locker room. Greg Lloyd wouldn't address the media and Kevin Greene, who had 2 1/2 sacks, spoke to reporters in a barely audible voice. 
"We've been like a yo-yo and our team knows that," said Steelers coach Bill Cowher. "We come out and play good one week and don't play good the other week. The bottom line is we're sitting here 3-3. We've got to put together four good quarters." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
UTILE FLOWER HOME DAY­CARE. LOVING, STIMULATIVE ENVIRONMENT. MOTHER, EDU­CATOR. SPECIAL DISCOUNTS. LICENSED. 284-0708. 
WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN 810W4TH MISH. MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30 WED OPEN JAM 9 PM THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 
2BLKS S. OF 100 CTR 
255-0458 NEED 10 

WANTED 
RIDERS WANTED NY/NJ to NO I am flying home and buying a car. but if I drive it back alone I think I will probably crash it. No gas $ nee.• but I need you to spell me at the wheel. Smokers welcome. Call Josh@ 2n-9071 
• • • FREE TRIPS & CASH • • • Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS aPid LOTS OF CASH with America's· #1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun. Bahamas. Mazatlan. or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A . BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)95-BREAKI 
Ride -Boston to South Bend for 
desperate Law Student, 1 0/21 or 
10/22. Call Jay at 634-4219. 
NEED EXTRA MONEY? 
HAVE A GOOD PHONE VOICE & 
6-8 HRS/WK TO MAKE CALLS 
ABOUT MY PRODUCT? 
THEN CALL JOHN DAVENPORT 
289-1993, ALLSTATE. 
FLEX HAS. 
START AT $12/HR. 
OFFICE NEAR CAMPUS 
NEED ride from NASHVILLE to 
N.D. on Oct. 27. Will help drive/gas. call Kurt 4-0994. ASAP! 
Seeking in home child care for an 
adorable baby. 1-4 days/wk 
M-Th. 631-6561. 
HELP WANTED 
10-30 hrs./flex: sched. 
All majors/schol. avail. 
$10.25 I 282-2357 
Part-time writer/editor with 2 kids (ages: 3,8) needs creative, ener­getic. child-care person who's good with kids. Access to car needed. 5-8 hrs/week, late afternoons. $5.50/hr. 273-1702 after 5 
Collector looking for 1995 magnetic football schedule. Will pay over cost. Please call X1103 
I NEED A RIDE to TEXAS for fall 
break 273-5281 
Desperately seeking a ride to 
D.C. area for break. Will pay for gas. Call x0607, ask for David. 
Car CD Player Jim @ 234 0985 


FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND 
232-2595 THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­vate baths. Located in Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 1-800-418­9487 

One bedroom In house. Utilities and laundry facilities, and kitchen privi­leges. Close to campus. $250/mo. Female preferred. Call Paul 232­2794. 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 PM 
& ASK FOR SANDY. 

FOR SALE 
Yamaha 400 Special JJ,MJNT-$650, RCA 20" Colortrack-$175, Prince Synergy Tennis Raquet-$80, Kickboxing/Sparring gear-$80. 
234-1840. 
For Sale: 1969 Acura IntegraLS 
Air Cond., Sunroof, AM/ FM Tape, 
Good Condition. $5,600 neg. 
Call Betsy at 4-3229.
........................ 
1994 Suzuki Swift GA, 3 DR, 
Stick,Biue,16,000 Miles,$ 6,700 
Call after 3:30, 2n-6115 
Spring Break Bahamas Party 
Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days 
$2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6 
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! 
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! 
Spring Break Travel 1-600-676­
6366 

Spring Break! Panama City! Early Specials! 6 Days Oceanview Room With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best Bars! Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151 1-600-676-6366 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break TraveL 1-600-676­6366 

TICKETS 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS 
GA'S TO ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY GAMES. 
219-232-0061,24 HAS. 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED 

GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY ND GAMES. 
BUY.SELL•TRADE 
(219) 232-0056-24 HAS. 
I need 2 Boston College GAs. Call Dave 273-0391. 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME 
GAMES.272-6306 
Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs. 
Please call Cheryl x4663 
Wanted: 4 tickets together -any 
home game 
Wanted: 2 tickets NO-USC 
Call 1-600-922-BEAR day 
1-502-354-8626 collect in evening NEED B.C. Ticket -G.A. or S.A. Please call Anne 634-3445. 
NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'S. HAVE TWO STUD. USC TIX TO TRADE OR UPGRADE. CALL NICOLE 
X4905 

HELP!Need USC tickets, will pay lots,call Michelle,634-2497 
**********PLEASE HELP!******••••• 
•NEED 1 NAVY GAl• •cALL COLLEEN AT X2191• 
NEED 4 USC GAs Katie 4015 
Need 2 USC GA's Will Pay For Them Call Rusty x-0993 
I need tickets for BC, USC, and Navy. Please call Bryan. 272-4249 
Need 4 USC GAs Call Chad at X3364 
NEED BCTKT 
WILL TRADE USC TKT 
OR PAY$$$ 

CALL KELLI X4044 
need USC tix, stud or GA. Will PAY $or TRADE for NAVY GA"S . call3676 
USC GA's 

Best offer x2450 
I need two BC tickets and 
four Navy tickets. 
Call634-2151 

I NEED BC & USC GA'S 
CALL 266-2677 
Wanted: 5 tickets to the Navy 
game. Either GA's or Students. Am 
willling to pay $$$$. Call Brian at 
x3061. 

Need one GA for Boston College. 
Willing to pay $$$$$$. Call Julie at 
264-5170. 

Need ARMY tixll Karen x3723 
NEED USC AND BC TIX 
STUDANDGA 
CALL MEG X4544 
I need 4 tickets to the USC game. Either GAs or student tix turned into GAs. PLEASE CALL. Bridgette 264-4316. 
Buy my SC ticket! 
Taking best offer. 
Melx1286 

I'M DESPERATE for your BC GA's 
Please call ALISA 271-6346 
California Dad needs 2 USC GAs 
together. Call Nicole 277-9414 
Need2GAs4 
USC Call x2675 
NEED USC GA'S AND STUD TX 
NICK 232-1726 
Looking for 1 USC stud. ticket to convert to GA and 1 BC stud. ticket. Please call Todd @ 273-6975 
NEED NAVY TIXI 
AMY 616-473-2636 
Need 1 stud. tckt. for BC game for my brother w/ 6 toes. Ryan # 1 636 Desperately need 4 Navy GA's!ll If I don't get them, my family won't pay for the operation to save my life. Call Mark at x1590. 
TRADE: have 2 BC GA, I need 2 USC GA justin 233-1259 
Need 2 USC tix-Have 2 BC or 2 Navy GAs to trade Also have $$$$ Call Sara x4096 
Need USC tickels (GA and stud) SO I CAN PAY OFF DEBT -RIDE BACK. If you can help call Keith at 3462. 
I NEED TWO NAVY GA'S AND 2-5 BC GA'S OR STUD TIX. PLEASE CALLJEN AT X1124 
Need two tickets to BC and four tickets to Navy. Calli Kieran at 634-2151 
ND ALUMNI NEEDS BC GA'SI CALL JOE AT 706-470-6356. 
Need 3 USC GA's and 1 BC Stud. Call Tom at x1699. 
I need one student ticket to USC. call Caroline at 264-4349. 
WE HAVE 2 USC STUD TIX!I BEST OFFER BY MIDNIGHT WED. CALLX4550 
I need tickets to USC, BC, and Navy. Please call Bryan. 272-4249 
I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3690 
REMEMBER THE GAME IS 
DURING FALL BREAK. CALL DOUG@X-3666 WILL PAY$$ 
Need 1 USC Ticket Student or GA. Call Anne x4696. 
$$ PLEASE HELP $$ '94 NO ALUM NEEDS BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX CALL 516-326-2659 
Need 2 BC GA'sl Will trade 2 Navy GA's. Ryan x-1362 
I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S AND I AM LOOKING FOR USC GA'S OR USC STUDENT TICKETS. 
If you have USC tix, call Tom atx3693 
HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP! 
I NEED USC AND BC TIX as many as possible, students or GAs 
please call NORM @ 232-2955 
ThanksforyourSupportl 
B.C. TICKETS WANTED. GA or student. CALL after 5 p.m. 2n-4793. GO IRISH. 
ND ALUM NEEDS 2 OR 4 TICK­ETS TO BC GAME OCT. 26. CALL COLLECT (610)269-9022 OR JEN­NYMIKE@ AOL.COM 
HELP! HELP! HELP! Alumnus des­perately needs 5 USC tix. Please call215-966-1788 day, or 215-636­9150 home. 
Selling your BC ticket?? Call Kelly@ 277-9695 
Need USC tickets for Texas parents coming to ND. Jeanne x4341 
Need many tickets for USC Please call Travis at X2091. 
I I NEED USC TICKETS I student tickets or GA's Call Kerri 273-3651 
need USC stud. tixl kim @ 273-9840 
NEED NO-USC TICKETS CALL BILL 233-5719 
NV\MANVIIIMNIJV 
You like PHISH? Tix for the concert in K-Zoo (that's Kalamazoo, Ml) for sale. The show is OCT. 27. Tix are $25 each (five are avail­able). Call AMY at 27:5-2864. 
NV\MANVIIIMNIJV 
2 BC GA's 234-7667 

lv. name, tel. #, & offer 
Needed: 2 USC student tix. Call Jason at x-1 079. 

PERSONAL 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
We're open for your convenience!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am -Midnight Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm Sat.: Noon -6:00pm Sun.: Noon-Midnight 
(closed home football Saturdays) 
0c0c0o0o0c0c0c0o0o0c0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0c0c0c0c0c0o0c0c0c0c0 
Don't forget to tum in your LONDON PROGRAM APPLICATION 
HEY YOU! Buy my USC ticket before O.J. does. Call1-4672. 
HELP! I need a ride to North NJ for Oct break.Will pay $$$ Call Lara x2550 
Driving to/through Madison, WI for fall break? please call Jessica at x2365 
NEED A RIDE TO IOWA? I'm leav­ing for Iowa City on Thurs. around 6 pm and can take riders. Call Molly @ x3490 
Thank you St.Jude for prayers answered. 
Memorial audtions will be tonight and tomorrow in 105 O'Shag. Don't miss out on this opportunity. 
Brought to you by Notre Dame Student Players. 
Any questions please direct to Andrew @634-3584 
If they don't go for this, we're gonna have to get outta here pretty quick. We have you on our screen now. Please identify. Shuttle Tydirium requesting deacti­vation of the deflector shield. Shuttle Tydirium, transmit the clear­ance code for shield passage. Transmission commencing. Now we find out if that code is worth the price we paid. It'll work. It'll work. Vader's on that ship. Now don't get jittery, Luke. There are a lot of command ships. Keep your distance though, Chewie, but don't look like you're trying to keep your distance. I don't know. Fly casual. I'm endangering the mission. I shouldn't have come. 
Need ride back to ND Oct 22 from Iowa. Jim X1561 
Anyone studied abroad not through ND, call Aaron@ 219-566-3365, I have ?'s 
we love Thurdays 

-----------2 
plane tickets to Minneapolis for fall break. $65/ea OBO Call with an offer-Kevin x0564 
Grossly underpaid, definalely over­worked, and absolutely no respect . 
"the skinny girls" 
Any doubts? 

Lisa is a queen and all men want her. 
SAW alum-don't forget to attend the dinner and wisit with your wery good friends. 5:45 at North. 
Row row row your boat.. Quee­quee-quae-quae-quae-. Merrily merrily merrily merrily peni-peni­peni. 
BOK 

Countdown to Bridgette Farrell's 21st: 11 Days. 
Guru Tuna: I still miss him. Margie you'll never understand the bond we had. 
Honey -Happy Anniversary! Thanks for the flowers. Love, Cookie's roommate. 
Cheryl O'Brien-do you still throw razorblades? I wouldn't even know! Let's hang out sometime. 
JC Penney rocks our world. 
Hotel Sawera. Bedmaking? 
John-boy-­Good luck on your tough week. I love youlll -your big sis 
Weirdness 
RandorGuy. 
Tiffany R is a b---f---er 

Hi to Tim, Rob, and L T .... it's late and the film isn't in yeti IIIII 
~-~~----~------.-~----~--------------~-------~----­
Monday, October 9, 1995 The Observer • SOCCER page 13 
What they're all referring to two good goals." is the tremendous effort that Connecticut scored the only


UConn ­
highlighted the scoring frenzy. goal of the first half as Connecticut took the lead for Woodward received the ball a
continued from page 20 
good in the second overtime the top of the box and beat when reserve forward Ginny Renola to the right. Followinga duel worthy of the two top Carabino scored from the left the goal, the Irish began to pos­teams in the country. 
side on a feed from junior sess the ball more and went Ginny Woodward. into halftime feeling good. 
Just listen to the participants. "I think that's one of the best Carabino would score again It was this scenario that soccer games I've been four minutes later as the turned the game into one to 
Huskies took shooting practice remember.
involved in," Irish coach Chris at the goal on a 2-0 break. Five goals highlighted a spanPetrucelli said. 
Carabino and Christy Rowe of action where no team would
"I've been coaching fifteen 
each hit the crossbar before relent. 
years and I haven't seen a 
Carabino put the ball past a 
game like this," Connecticut 
diving Jen Renola. "Its pretty frustrating to come
head coach Len Tsantiris 
"We kept up the tempo, espe­out and play like we did andadded. "It was a spectacular cially on the fifth goal, we were then lose," Daws added. 
game for women's soccer. 
all around the box," Tsantiris "It was just a great effort by That's soccer at its very best." 
said. two teams thats howed fightEven United States Women's The Irish dominated the shots and determination beyondSoccer Olympic coach Tony in the first overtime, 5-l, but belief," Petrucelli said. "IDeCicco was oh hand to take in could not capitalize. couldn't be prouder of the waythe game. 
"I thought we were fresher at we came back four times"If you're going to come see a the end than they were, but on against one of the finest teams game, you want to see a game the counterattack they finished in the country. We always talk like this," DeCicco said. "It was a couple of chances," Petrucelli about the quality of our playa testament to women's inter­added. They got out on us a and the quality of our play wascollegiate soccer." 
couple of times and finished very good." 

Irish 
continued from page 20
COUPLES GROUP 
for 90 minutes." 
Indeed, the Irish started off the Santa Clara contest playing 
Are you a married couple who is seeking to enrich your 
marriage and to understand your partner better? 
on empty, and their inability to keep possession of the ball and lack of energy led to a 45 minute period of Bronco domi­
Would you like to get together over lunch, or possible 
other times, to discuss relevant issues and challenges of 
nation. Santa Clara outshot the Irish 9-2. The lethargic play of
living your vocation? 

the starters led to early substi­tutions by Petrucelli. 
If you can answer yes to these two questions, then you 
"Our starters looked very tired. It's understandable, re­
may wish to inquire about a new Couples Group that is 
ally; this was Santa Clara's big game, and we were really too
being formed through the Office of Campus Ministry at 
focused on Connecticut to pre­
the University of Notre Dame. 
pare well for them," Petrucelli said. The substitutions paid off as
Please contact Chris Etzel orjohn and Sylvia Dillon, Directors ofMarriage 
the substitutes were able to
Preparation and Enrichment, at 631-5242, Campus Ministry, Badin Hall. 
handle the Bronco attack, and the Irish headed into the break in a good position. 
"I told them at halftime that we took their best punch and didn't fall. I didn't think that they could score on us. It was just a matter of playing harder and finding a way to win," Petrucelli said. 




Pro/ENGINEER "The Winning Edge" 
With Its powerful and InnovaUve line of ProjENGINEEil" CAD/CAM software products, and recently acquired MECHANICA" analysis software, Parametric Technology Corporation is outrac· ing the competition by helping Fortune 500 leaders outpace theirs. 
Today, our conUnuing record-breaking success and growth create opportunities to join 
our "winning team" worldwide. We have challenging positions for achievement-oriented graduates in 
the areas of MECHANICAL ENGINEERING and SOFTWARE ENGINEERING. 
Rated as one of the naUon's fastest growing public corporaUons by Fortune, Forbes, Business Week and INC. magazines, PTC tops Financial World's list of "America's 50 Best Mid-Cap 
Much of the offense of the Santa Clara squad was pro­vided by attacker Mikka Han­son. Hanson played on Irish co-captain Jen Renola's club team in California, and almost put in two shots on her former teammate in the firsat half from close range. Renola made a great save, punching a head­er over the crossbar. The other shot evaded the Irish keeper but rattled off the right post harmlessly. 
The players certainly appreciated the hard-fought win. 
"We didn't start off so well in the first half," said Gerardo. "But we really picked it up in the second half and controlled the half." 
In controlling the half, the Irish defense led the way, limit­ing Santa Clara's offensive chances. 
"It's nice to be involved in a close game that we won," said Renola. "It feels like things are starting to come together for us." 
The key to the game was ball control. It is the single reason for Irish success or failure. This fact was more than evi­dent against the Broncos. 
"We play much better when we have possession of the ball," Renola assessed. "We don't play well as a counter-attack team. When our passing is there, we have a good game." 
"We played sharper in the second half because we had to," Petrucelli said. "We need­ed to concentrate on passing the ball around." 
This weekend is just another in the long line of tough Irish scheduling. Next weekend, the team travels to Houston to face perennial powerhouse Duke and top-ranked North Carolina. 
Companies" while Pro/ENGINEER wins acclaim as Industry Week's ""Technology of the Year." 
PTC offers a stimulating, dynamic professional environment plus highly competitive compensation, a matching 401 (k) plan, employee stock purchase plan, educational assistance, and a fully paid benefits package. To explore a future with us, please visit your_Career Center today. Direct resumes are also accepted. Mail/fax to Human Resources: Mechanical Engineering -Dept. PJ/VT; Software Engineering -Dept. NS/VT, Parametric Technology Corporation, 128 Technology Drive, Waltham, MA 02154. FAX: (617) 398-5674. We are an equal opportunity employer M/F/D/V. 


SanJose $239 london $289

"Pro/E lives up to its reputation. I'm working with the 
Moscow $319 TelAVIV $429 Taipei $429 TOilVo $450 SVdnev $689 
For~~~~~~J~~~~
J::'., subject to chon5t ond/or ovolloblllty. 
CMI todoy frN oiMr wwldorl. dnUNU...... 


tiiihiNIITravel~ 
CIEEo Couadl oo Iotomollaool Educolloool Excb.ac• 

1-BD0-2-CDUNC/l 

ct-800-226-86241 
Calllodav for aFREE Student TraveJsmauazinel 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 9, 1995 
-







Mariners 'refuse to lose' 
By JIM COUR 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
The Seattle Mariners, the team that could not win for n'early two decades, now just cannot lose. 
Edgar Martinez hit a two-run double in the 11th inning Sunday night, capping one of baseball's best comebacks, and sent the Mariners over the New York Yankees 6-5 to win a clas­sic, decisive Game 5 of their AL playoff series. 
Ken Griffey Jr., whose play­off-record fifth homer began an eighth-inning rally that tied it, scored from first base on Mar­tinez's hit into the left-field cor­ner, sliding home with the win­ning run. 
"All the hard work we did fmally paid off for us," Griffey said. 
Randy Johnson won in relief as Seattle won for the fO"QTth time in a week when a loss would've meant the end of its season. The Mariners became only the fourth team to over­come an. 0-2 deficit in a five­game series, and the first since San Diego beat Chicago in the 1984 NL playoffs. 
The Mariners, in the postsea­son for the first time in their 19-year history, begin the best­of-7 AL championship series against Cleveland on Tuesday night at the Kingdome. 
Jack McDowell, making his first relief appearance in the majors, was the loser. He es­caped jams in the ninth and 10th, but could not hold a 5-4 lead in the 11th after a go­ahead single by Randy Velarde off Johnson. 
Joey Cora opened the inning with a bunt single, barely elud­ing first baseman Don Mat­tingly's tag, and took third on Griffey's single. Martinez, who drove in a postseason-record seven runs in Game 4's win, fol­lowed with a drive down the left-field line. 
-Griffey easily beat the relay to 
the plate, and was mobbed by 
his teammates. The 57,411 fans 
at the Kingdome, some of them 
wearing "Refuse To Lose" 
shirts, roared. 
"I got behind. I was just try­
ing to make contact. He got one 
up and I hit it hard," said 
Martinez, the AL batting cham­
pion. 
Johnson, who threw 116 
pitches only 48 hours earlier in 
winning Game 3, entered in the 
ninth with two on and none out. 
In just his second relief appear­
ance since joining Seattle, he 
shut out the Yankees until the 
11th. 
Mike Stanley drew a four­
pitch walk, pinch-runner Pat 
Kelly moved up on a sacrifice 
by Tony Fernandez and Velarde 
singled, his 196 hit in 40 
career at-bats against Johnson. 
Johnson, who went 19-2 in 
the regular season -including 
a· win last· Monday in the one­
game playoff against California 
for the AL West title -led the 
majors in strikeouts and the 
league in ERA. He wound up as 
the winning pitcher this time, 
too, stranding another runner 
in scoring position in the 11th 
with a pair of strikeouts. 
The battle of nerves began in 
the eighth, when the Mariners 
scored twice off David Cone to 
tie it at 4. 
Fernandez doubled to open 
the New York ninth and 
Velarde drew a walk from 
Norm Charlton. As Mariners 
manager Lou Piniella walked to 
the mound, there was no doubt 
about the next move, and the fans roared when Johnson was summoned fro~n the bullpen. 
Johnson struck out Wade Boggs on three pitches, retired Bernie Williams on a popup and got Paul O'Neill on a foul pop. Johnson got even better in the lOth, blowing away Ruben Sierra, Mattingly and Gerald Williams on strikes. 
Meanwhile, the Mariners were wasting chances. They left the bases loaded in the eighth, and stranded runners on first and second in both the ninth and 10th against McDowell. Martinez struck out and Alex Rodriguez grounded out ending the ninth, and Vince Coleman grounded out in the lOth. 
The Mariners outhit New York 15-6. 
Cone, brought to New York to win big games, failed to hold the Yankees' 4-2 lead in the eighth. 
Griffey Jr. connected for a solo shot with one out, his third homer this week off Cone, the 1994 Cy Young Award winner. 
With two outs, Tino Martinez drew Cone's first walk of the game, Jay Buhner followed with a single and pinch-hitter 


Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 
Coopers&Lybrand 

a professional services firm 
COOPERS &.. LYBRAND ON CAMPUS 
Coopers &Lybrand cordially invites 
Notre Dame Accountancy students to the following programs: 
•LIVING ABROAD WITH COOPERS&.. LYBRAND 
Come and hear about opportunities to participate in ·an international exchange. 
Monday, October 9, 1995 7:00pm Center for Continuing Education Reception Following 
All Accountancy Majors {Juniors and Seniors) Welcome 
•COOPERS ~LYBRAND OFFICE HOURS 
Representatives will be available to talk one-on-one to Juniors and Sophomores 
about summer internships and to answer any questions you might have. 
Tuesday, October 10, 1995 
9:00 am to 5:00 pm 
LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room 102 
Coopers &Lybrand L.L.P. 
Coopers 

!&Lybrand I
a professional services firm 
Alex Diaz also walked, loading the bases. 
Cone, having already thrown 141 pitches, ran the count full on pinch-hitter Doug Strange and then walked him on a pitch in the dirt. Cone bent over on the mound as the tying run crossed the plate, and Yankees manager Buck Showalter took out his ace. Cone went 10-2 after being traded from Toronto to New York in late July, including a win in Game 1. 
Rookie reliever Mariano Rivera, who began the season in the minors, kept it at 4-all in the eighth by striking out Mike Blowers on three pitches. 
Mattingly, seizing the moment he'd waited for all these years, hit a two-run double with the bases loaded in the sixth, putting the Yankees ahead 4-2. 
Mariners starter Andy Benes, Seattle's version of Cone -he was acquired in midseason from San Diego -walked Dion James intentionally to reload the bases, but retired the next two batters. 
Cora hit a solo homer that put Seattle ahead 1-0 in the third. 

NOT JUST KNOWLEDGE. KNOW HOW. 
------~~---------------------------------------------------------~----------------------~­
Monday, October 9, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
-
•SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL 

Belles struggle with consistency over weekend 


By STEPHANIE BUEK 
Sports writer 
Well beyond the midpoint in their schedule, the Saint Mary's volleyball team continued to struggle with consistency at home Saturday in the SMC Quadrangular. Playing host to three NAJA scholarship teams in Elmhurst, Madonna, and Bethel College, the Belles split for the day. picking up a victory in five games against Elmhurst. but falling in three to Madonna. 
On the whole, Head Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek was proud of the Belles' perfor­mance against Elmhurst. Even at two games apiece, Saint Mary's decided the match in the fifth. The team used its strengths and capitalized upon Elmhurst's weaknesses to dominate rally scoring and chalk up the 15-11 win. Schroeder-Biek attributed the victory to the Belles' superior physical condition. 
"Part of our success against (Elmhurst} was outlasting them," said Schroeder-Biek. "We wore them down." 
Indeed, Saint Mary's physical prowess was evident in their stats. Using all four hitters. including senior middle attack Sara Stronczek with 22 kills, sophomore setter Kelly Meyer 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with 
a 

special Observer ad. 
had near 70 assists, while, as a team, the Belles served six aces against Elmhurst. Defensively, sophomore outside attack Meg Kelly led the team with 21 digs, and freshman middle attack Laura Schreeg continued her strong play at the net, leading the team with five blocks. 
According to Schroeder-Biek, the Belles' improved physical condition is the result of more demanding practices. The objective of the restructured practices is to finish the work­out with the toughest drills, forcing the team to give a 200% physical and mental effort throughout, rather than to rely solely upon quick starts or big finishes to carry them through games. 
"What is so frustrating to me is that we have established a pattern that, at a certain point (in a game). we quit," said Schroeder-Biek. "The goal of our restructured practices is to break (the Belles) down physi­cally so that they rely on their brains." 
While the Belles' physical condition was evident in both matches, their mental consis­tency faltered against Madonna. With both individual and team stats way down, Saint Mary's could not continue the winning pattern they estab­lished with Elmhurst against Madonna, losing in three short matches, 13-15, 5-15, and 9­
15. The Belles were ineffective offensively. accumulating only 20 kills among the top three hitters and serving only two aces against Madonna. Defensively, senior outside attack Kelly Prosser had 11 digs and Meg Kelly had four blocks. 
"We were dropping our arms on our attacks and our defense was not even existent against Madonna," said Kelly. 
A frustrated Kelly Meyer searched for a reason for the discrepancy between the Belles' play against Elmhurst and Madonna. 
"I just can not blame it on being tired. Nobody in the gym has had tougher practices than us. We did not come in with the attitude to win against Madonna," said Meyer. 
Schroeder-Biek agreed. 
"It has got to come from within. They must decide indi­vidually to win," said Schroeder-Biek. 
Now 9-7, the Belles host North Park College at Angela Athletic Facility Tuesday evening at 7 o'clock. 
HAP 

\\lTH~AYI 
"Jus' like abies with pacifiers ... .,....
...._._..... 
Ol Mark's No L. 
Hootie Who ... from, the ATL, Cali (143), Chi Town & Sade's Lover 

IGHTY 

Benjamin Bocklage was instrumental in the Irish 3-2 victory over Georgetown. 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
less than 5 minutes to play in the first half. Capasso's shot, one of only two Irish shots in the first half, beat Georgetown goalie Dave Stapleton and bounced in off the right post. The goal knotted the game at 1-1, as the Hoyas had jumped out to a 1-0 lead on a Raul Ferrer header at the 13:04 mark of the game. 
The Irish were outshot 11-2 in the first half, and goaltender Greg Velho came up with 5 saves to keep the Irish in the game. 
Whatever Berticelli said to his team at halftime, it obvious­ly worked, as the Irish came out aggressive and scored two goals within a 15 minute stretch to take a 3-1 lead.. 
Notre Dame's second goal came on a low strike from Chris Mathis, who took a pass from Ben Bocklage and fired the ball past a diving Stapleton at the 49:28 mark of the game. 
Mathis and Bocklage teamed up for the Irish's third goal just under 14 minutes later, when Bocklage put a beautiful side­ways header over Stapleton's head off a perfect cross from Mathis. 
Georgetown didn't give up however, and their continued pressure paid off just live min­utes after Bocklage's goal. when midfielder Tom Greaser buried the ball in the left cor­ner of the net off a Gil-Ignacio Ascunce cross. 
Georgetown did everything they could to come up with a game tying goal in the remain­der of the game, but their effort fell short in the end, and the Irish held on to win their first 

Big East match since a  3-0  
shutout  of  Syracuse  on  
September 10.  

Freshmen Mark Dolan and Philip Murphy, along with junior Peter Gansler, played very well in relief roles in the midfield, and Koloskov's pres­ence, while limited, provided an emotional lift. 
"This was definitely a big win for us," said sophomore Joe Gallo. who continued to impress in the midfield. "We gained a lot of confidence today, and we showed we can hold a lead. Hopefully this will give us a real boost. We're looking to go undefeated in the Big East for the rest of the sea­son." 
The Irish have 6 Big East matches remaining. including four straight conference matchups, beginning with Providence on Saturday. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 9, 1995 
-• CROSS COUNTRY 
Men's teant tops co01petition, while wo01en take eighth 
ByB.J. HOOD Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame cross coun­try teams hosted the Notre Dame Invitational on Friday. The men's team finished first, while the women's team fin­ished eighth. 
Before the meet, Coach Joe Piane said the men's top five runners, Matt Althoff, Joe Dunlop, Derek Martisus, Jason Rexing, and Derek Seiling all have the chance to lead the Irish at a given meet. · 
On Friday, it was Seiling's turn to finish first for the Irish and tenth overall, in a time of 
24:44.3. Dunlop was second on the team and twelfth overall in a time of 24:47.3, while Martisus was close behind at 24:49.0. 
In three meets, three different 
Happy 18th Steve 
You're sitting in the Big Chair. Enjoy it. 
,;;!love, 
~om, ~atJ antJ Q}Jhii. 

runners have finished first for Notre Dame. "It shows we're pretty deep up front," Martisus said. "Our highest fmisher was tenth overall, we're hoping somebody will step up and fm­ish higher." 
Althoff finished eighteenth and Rexing finished twenty­first, while freshmen Antonio Arce and sophomore Mike Conway rounded out the win­ning effort. 
Notre Dame's top five finished within fifteen seconds of each other, and the top six finished in the top thirty-three runners. "None of us ran together but our times ended up close together, and that was defmite­ly a positive because mentally we stayed focused," Martisus said. "We just need to get a lit­tle faster if we want to run with some of the people we will run against." 
Notre Dame finished first ahead of Life College, Bowling Green State, North Central College, Ohio State, Wake Forest, and Alabama. Twenty­seven teams participated. 
Maureen Kelly led the women's squad. The senior posted a time of 17:48.9 en route to finishing fifteenth over­all. The time Kelly's best time of the season. 
The next Irish finisher was senior Amy Siegal, wh"o finished thirty-first with a time of 
18:04.9. Freshmen Amy Volland was the third Irish fin­isher in a time of 18:33.8. 
Senior Kristen Dudas, junior Emily Dodds, junior Lindsay Dutton, and junior Carolyn Long rounded out the Irish run­ners. 
Wake Forest won the women's field, followed by Alabama, Bowling Green State, Virginia, Purdue, Western Ontario, South Florida, and Notre Dame. Twenty-five teams participated in the women's division. 
B.C. B 
Win $1 00 for yourself and for your dorm! 


Create a banner to display outside your dorm, supporting the Fighting Irish as they face rival Boston College on Oct. 28. 
The banner with the most spirit and creativity wins! 
Entry forms and rules can be picked up in the Student Government Office on the second floor of Lafortune. Deadline for entry is Tuesday, October 24. 
Monday, October 9, 1995 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

SEE THE IRISH TAKE ON THE NATION'S BEST I 
I I 


UCONN  GEORGETOWN  ST. JOHN'S  MIAMI  
Preseason No. 5  Preseason No. 3  Preseason No. 15  '95 NIT Participant  
'95 NCAA Elite 8 Participant  '95 NCAA Sweet 16 Participant  '95 NIT Participant  


PITTSBURGH RUTGERS PROVIDENCE SETON HALL WEST VIRGINIA 
STUDENT TICKET DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE 
Seniors .................... Tuesday ................... Oct. 10 .................. 8:00 a.m.-5:00p.m. Juniors ..................... Wednesday ............. Oct. 11 ................ 8:00 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Law/Grad ................. Wednesday ............. Oct. 11 ................ 12:30 p.m.-5:00p.m. Sophomores ............ Thursday ................. Oct. 12 ................ 8:00 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Freshmen ................ Thursday ................. Oct. 12 ................ 12:30 p.m.-5:00p.m. 
STUDENT ISSUE AT GATE 10-JOYCE CENTER 
Please Note: If you choose to stand in line prior to your issue time, you may not hold spaces for classmates. Aperson must be in line for every four tickets to be purchased. 
1995·96 MEN'S BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 
Nov. 9.................... Australian National 
Jan. 27 ........................... West Virginia
Nov. 20 .................... Athletes in Action 
Feb. 11 ................................ St. John's
Nov. 25 ..................................... Akron* 
Feb. 13 ................................ Pittsburgh
Dec. 6............................... Connecticut 
Feb. 21 .............................. Providence
Dec. 20 ..................................... UCLA* 
Feb. 24 ......................:........ Seton Hall
Dec. 28 .............................. San Diego* 
Feb. 28 ...................................... Miami
Dec. 30 ................. Loyola Marymount* 
Jan. 15 ............................ Georgetown 

* Games omitted from student package because of Thanksgiving and Christmas breaks are indicated by an asterisk (*) in the schedule. 



'. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 9, 1995 
• WoMEN's Vou.r:vsAu.. 
Irish stomp Mountaineers, Blue Devils 

By MICHAEL THOMPSON Sports Writer 
"Game point, Notre Dame" were familiar words heard Friday night as the Notre Dame volleyball team trampled another opponent. Block after block and ace after ace, the Irish did to West Virginia what they have done to so many opponents this year -beat them three games to none. 
West Virginia was the ninth victim of the "three games and out" Irish volleyball style of play. The Irish were so domi­nant that Lindsay Treadwell carne to the service line with the score tied at one in the third game and didn't leave that position until Notre Dame had scored nine unanswered points. The squad finished off the Mountaineers in their usual fashion. 
Treadwell said of the Irish style of play. "We feel that we have to win quick. We're doing that now, and it gives us expe­rience in closing teams out without giving them a chance to come back." Notre Dame did in West Virginia 15-7, 15-7, and 15-1. 
The story was much the same on Saturday night as Notre Dame defeated the Duke Blue Devils. Angie Harris and Jen Birkner carne up big in game one with J airnie Lee adding her usual, impressive contribution. In the beginning of game two, it was all Jennifer Rouse who contributed what seemed to be about a thousand kills in a row. 
Setter Carrie May said of Jennifer Rouse, "I felt that she was on. She was making her­self available. As a setter you learn that when sorneone's on, you get them the ball. Nobody could block her shots so I worked my hardest on getting the ball in her hands." 
On Saturday, however, defense was the name of the game. The Irish's blocking gave the Duke defense much trouble, allowing only five points to be scored by Duke in the second game. Once again, the Irish volleyball team showed up with a team of ten utilize players. Kristina Ervin ...._-'---'------~---··--·-'­
and Lindsay Treadwell saw alot of action in the third game. And needless to say they partic­ipated heavily in the Irish's impressive defense. 
Treadwell said of her role on the team. "As subs, we have to be very versatile. We have to be able to do everything. So when we have to play defense ... We play defense!" Notre Dame finished off Duke 15-8, 15-5, and 15-9. 
In this weekend's wins, Jairnie Lee tightened the noose with 35 kills and 3 solo blocks. Jenny Birkner and Jen Briggs also carne up big offensively this weekend with 20 and 23 kills respectively. On the other side of the ball, Birkner had six blocks, followed by Jennifer Rouse who blocked four shots. As a team, Notre Dame aver­aged over twenty kills per game, while allowing only eleven per game by the oppo­nent. 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen Carrie May's exceptional play paced Notre Dame's victories over the weekend. 

22 and Still kicking Butt!!! 
~7>\'IJ 
~q; 

HaPP!IvB-Da!l! 
Love~ 
Barb. Beth. ChristY. Jen & Roz 


0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------• 
ATTENTION FRESHMEN! 
of 
Carroll Cavanaugh Farley Fisher Flanner Pangborn Siegfried Stanford 
Welcome to the 
FRESHMAN'S RETREAT 
Which will take place Friday, Nov. 17 -Saturday Nov, 18 Applications available from your Rector. Applications due this week. 

-------------------~------­Monday, October 9, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
DAVE KELLEIT YOUR HOROSCOPE -~ 
T>IP<l-'., N<YTI'IIr-'C.. Foul>

~\J ~E AI.I."\ T\\•r-'~ 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1995 THA·.-'"5 1\ lo1? \tJE.l.l. I TE..T~, l\.lO P~'f'E.I'-S., (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own 
1-\/WE. foull T£">TS AND A.t--4-c p.._ Gu.z, At-~.c 
date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cents a minute.)
r \-\lwt. LNNP"-'1

lw<> (>p.pe:.11.S \\\•'i W~:.E.'<. ... 
To "Do ... 

\ 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE Give your car a routine check-up. NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Unusual people and methodsI (rlE Lt.. Set the stage that should be deserve a fair hearing. Be a good lis­
launched this December. Getting all tener. Ask well-phrased questions. 
\ 

promises in writing will prevent a VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): major disappointment later on. 1996 Secrets emerge. Do not try to pull will bring a raise or coveted promo­the wool over someone's eyes. An tion. A longtime relationship could unexpected financial opportunity end abruptly when you meet some­comes your way. Problems could one new. If you want prominent arise with a co-worker. people to rely on you, build a repu­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Curb tation for being dependable. Next an urge to buy things on impulse. A June is the best time to vacation. A regular shopping routine could resist business relocation or return to temptation. Others look to you in
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
school is likely by this time next times of crisis. Keep your cool. A fall. calm, deliberate approach will 
MOM, I N.EED 'Ttl SURE. 1-\0W A8oJT VM, II WO\Jl\7 WElL, M'< NOTEB:X>K.S CELEBRITIES BORN ON restore everyone's confidence. 
com:c.r LD-~ES 1141'::. Wt.E\<:.Et-tO? BE BrnER TO I~ ~t. CAR At-\D THIS DAY: legendary musician SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): John Lennon, novelist Belva Plain, You now take another step up the
t<:lR A SGIOOL DO IT 1\ L\ffi.E 1\-\E PP..R'f:. CLDSES 
"Broom Hilda" cartoonist Russell career ladder. People connected with 
PRO.lECT. C.OJLD SOO~£.R. it{ zo 1-\1~\J\ES. 
Myers. football player Mike Single­an organization you recently joined, 
Wt. Gi:J 1\) 11\£. 
tary. welcome you warmly. Work harder 1\R.BaREI\JI-\ ARIES (March 21-April 19): to sustain a close relationship, but SOMETIME~ Despite some doubts, your friends do not forget your old pals. 
and professional advisors are steer­SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. ing you in the right direction. Com­21): You are in a good position to plete unfinished projects before act on your business and career starting new ones. plans. Pour on the charm if hoping TAURUS (April 20-May 20): to make new allies. Giving others New business trends affect the way the benefit of the doubt wins their 
you do your work. Your dealings loyalty. 
with women <ir the general public, CAPRIL'ORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
could lead to travel. Spend more 19): Doing a little or a lot, you can 
time on self-improvement activities. mold this day to your liking. A writ­
Romance has you on cloud nine. ing assignment or speaking engage­
DILBERT SCOIT ADAMS 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): ment offers the perfect outlet for Back to work! New clients and self-expression. interesting financial developments AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): energize you. A friend presents an Keep your distance from bossy offi. intriguing concept. beneficial to you cials. Their .agenda could be in both. An excellent week to share direct conflict with your own. Sim­your ideas with people in positions plifying work tasks will boost effi­of power. ciency. You have the power to make 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): a career or romantic dream come You receive new recognition for true. your untiring efforts. A raise or PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): bonus is in the offing. Your emo­Constructive activities and good tional and financial security is conversation will revive someone-'s linked to someone else's. Cooperate sagging spirits. Use a computer or with each other. travel to find fun. Good news will 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The bring relatives closer together. Do next three days feature lots of paper­not ignore a health question. Make a work, phone calls and meetings. doctor's appointment. 


ss Really big to-do 50-Down 56-quam
1 Fence openings 35 Poses (for) videri (North6 ~-California 
36 String quartet Carolina motto) 
10 Airline to Tel member 57 Gymnast Aviv 
Korbut 14 Open-eyed Connell Jr. sa De-file a disk? 1slsraell 38 Em chasers 59 Remunerates 
statesman Abba GO About 
37 Novelist-S. 

39 Housekeeper of 16 Casual dissent 60's TV 
midmonth 61 Wives of knights
11 Really small 40 El Greco's birthplace
19 "Concord Sonata" 41 Big city 
DOWN
horizonscomposer 

43 Troupe member 1 Inti. commerce 44 London gallery org. 
20 Some walk-ups 
21 Discharge 45 Ryan's "Love 2 Nautical 
22 -~-de Ia Cite Story" co-star direction 23 Frost-covered 46 Prostrate 3 Tiger Beat 241terated 
reader 28 On and off 4 Sea eagle 
48 Like vending 

machines 32 Greetings at sea 54 Campus mil. s Holds up 33 Slick goo org. 6 Designer Geoffrey 7 Help a crook ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE a Comedienne Hooks et al. 9Whichever 10 Elgar's "-­~-:':+7+=-t::+''-t::~:-E+=i Variations" 
29 Alternative to a 43Scheme 49 Egg on caplet 45A two­so New Age-isti11 Really 30 Fit to be tied dimensional glowaffectionate 31 Furniture world? 
s1 Cable car12 Copies worker 46 Kind of school 52 Word in an13 For fear that 

33 "One--fits 

47 Civil rights ultimatum18 Fuse all" figure Parks 53 Henna and
=+"=+":-+:-:-t-,,.-+.,;,.-f 21 Irish republic 
36 Windmill blade lllilt-=+.,-7f,:-'f:::+.::-l 23 "Arrivederci, 48"--Lang others 
37 Historical 

Syne" ss--polloi
period ...,..-:-+:-o+--'-1 24 Facilitates 
39 Sexologist "'!"'tc:':+.::+.::-l 25 Armorial flaw Shere 
Get answers to any three clues 
-:-:+=+:'--+':,.-! 26 Really fine 40Ascended 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
';:t;:;t;:;ili.l 27 Cries of dismay 42 Jousters' 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
~:..;:....o..~• 28 Blackthorns equipment 
• 
OF INTEREST 


• 
Inner City Teaching Corps will be holding infor­mation sessions regarding this post-grad service oppor­tunity at the Center for Social Concerns at 5:00 p.m. and 7:00p.m. tonight. 

• 
Auditions for student players will be held tonight and Tuesday night from 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. In 105 0' Shag. The play will be "Memorial," written about Viet­nam. 

• 
The "Current U.S. Immigration Trends" Panel will meet on October 10 at 7:30 p.m. in the Library Audi­torium. For more information, call 1-6841. 


•MENU  
Notre Dame  
North Bianco Pizza Beef Chow Mein Steamed Vegetable Plate  South Beef Turnovers Baked Chicken RissolePotatoes  
Saint Mary's Chicken and Dumplings Salmon Steaks Buttered Noodles  

)0 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors . Join The Observer staff. 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $40 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ 
Address ________~---------------------------­City ----------State ____Zip______ 

SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, October 9, 1995 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
One streak ends, another begins 
Irish lose classic game 
Irish return to winning in 54 overtime thriller ways in 1-0 victory 
By JOE VILLINSKI By DAVE TREACY 
Assistant Sports Editor Sports Writer 
With less than a minute left in the sec­It's nice to have something go your way,ond overtime on Friday night, a feeling once in a while. 
began to sweep across the handful of fans This seems to be the shared sentiment ofstill left in the Alumni Filed stands. 
the Irish women's soccer team followingAs the Notre Dame women's soccer team 
Sunday's 1-0 win over Santa Clara at 
trailed by two goals, freshman Monica Alumni Field. 
Gerardo stood alone, awaiting a penalty After a scoreless first half. the Irish werekick. For this sight kept hope alive among able to net the game's only goal on beauti­the remaining Irish supporters. 
ful passing and a great individual effort byDespite the enormous deficit of being freshman Monica Gerardo. Midfielder 
down two goals with under a minute left, it Holly Manthei sent a pass up the wing to 
only seemed appropriate that the Irish forward Michelle McCarthy, who saw 
would answer this challenge. 
Gerardo streaking up the left side and 
They had answered every other one on around the Bronco defense. After Mc­
this crisp fall evening. 
Carthy hit Gerardo with a pass outside of . Howevei:. after Gerardo put the kick in the box, Gerardo took the ball in and beatfor her second goal of the night, bringing the Santa Clara goalie with a roller to the Notre Dame within one, the Irish could not 
bottom right corner of the net. Both
regain control in the waning seconds. 
McCarthy and Manthei were credited with And then the feeling slowly faded away. 
an assist. 
No matter the result, those fans had wit­After having a rough weekend in Ohio,nessed a classic in every sense of the word and ending up on the losing end of an epic as No. 5 Connecticut prevailed 5-4 in over­battle against UConn on Friday, the squad
time, ending Notre Dame's 36-match 
needed something to get them going. 
unbeaten streak. 
"Our players gave everything they had on The longest record among Division I Friday night," noted head coach Chris institutions did not fall without producing The Observer/ Mike Ruma Petrucelli. "We didn't have the legs to run 
Holly Manthei was intrumental in the 1-0 win against Santa Clara. 
see UCONN I page 13 see IRISH I page 13 
' 
~ --: 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame overwhelms Big East rival Georgetown 
By DYLAN BARMMER Big East to 2-3-1. The top eight loss to Detroit, and it seemed Sports Writer teams in the twelve team confer­apparent that he would miss ence advance to the Big East Sunday's match. 
It has long been said that tournament, with the winner of Koloskov came back from the strength is found in numbers. the tournament earning an au­injury to play much of Sunday's While some may argue against tomatic bid to the NCAA play­game however, his ankle heavily this statement,the Notre Dame offs. taped up. Not only did Koloskov men's so-ccer team would cer­play in the game, but he also tainly find it hard to dispute "This was obviously an impor­provided an assist on the Irish's after their crucial 3-2 win over tant game for us," commented first goal of the game. Big East rival Georgetown at Irish head coach Mike Berticelli. "Konstantin made a big differ­Alumni Field Sunday afternoon. "A lot of people deserve a lot of ence for us today," said 
credit for the win. It was a team Berticelli. "We weren't expect­
The Irish used a total team win." ing him to be able to play due to effort to defeat the defending Big his ankle injury, but he wanted East Champion Hoyas, despite In a game in which 16 differ­to try playing on it." being outshot 21-12. The emo­ent players saw action, the effort tional victory was vital to the put forth by junior midfielder Koloskov's assist, which gives Irish's survival in the Big East, Konstantin Koloskov may have him a team-high 17 points on as they improved their confer­been the most impressive. the season, came on Tony ence record to 2-3, while drop­Koloskov suffered a serious Capasso's game tying goal with ping Georgetown's mark in the ankle injury in Notre Dame's 1-0 
see BIG EAST I page 15 
Football 
vs. Army at Giants Stadium 

Women's Soccer 
October 14, 1995, 12:30 EST see page 16

vs. Duke October 13 
~ 
SMC Sports Cross Country ..... • Mariners defeat Yankees 

Soccer at Illinois Wesleyan October 11 
at Ohio State September 15 Volleyball vs. North Park College 
rn 
see page 14 October 10, 7 EST 
Men's Soccer 

• Saint Mary's Volleyball results 
vs. Providence October 14
Volleyball 
.e

at Western Michigan October 1 0 see page 15 








