
Friday, January 20, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 69 rHE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DANtE AND SAINT 1\lAR ''S 
rc_l_u_d_e_a_1_6_'_'_s_a_n_it_a_r..::.y_se_w_e_r__es_t--in_c:..::o.:..n:.__:_venience to employ-

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Campus sites including Dorr Road and Saint Mary's Lake are subject to new construction. 
Construction underway on new dorms 
By ETHAN HAYWARD News Writer 
Construction on the new Keough and O'Neill Halls is slated to begin this spring. Unfortunately, this means a great inconvenience for many students and employees of WNDU. 
The construction of the new dorms entails installation of utilities such as electricity and plumbing, and the installation of these utilities requires the closing of Dorr Road between 
U.S. 33 and Lake Drive. The stretch of road has been closed since December 23. 
Utilities being installed in-from the west side of Saint Mary's Lake, a 60" storm water sewer on the lake, and a high voltage line to a substa­tion north of Support Services. These utilities will serve the area to be known as the West Quad as well as Keough and O'Neill. 
The utilities' installation has required razing of the 1st. 2nd, 3rd, and 9th holes of the golf course as well as the seg­ment of Dorr, according to John DeLee, the director of utilities. 
Phillip Johnson, assistant di­rector of University secu­rity/police feels the closing of these areas causes the great­ees of WNDU and residents of Carroll Hall. To facilitate mat­ters, the Dye Company has constructed a temporary road to the parking lot of the televi­sion station and a gravel path to Carroll. 


It is expected that Dorr will 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

re-open in mid-February, as­
Due to extensive construction efforts, perimeter areas of the D-6 
suming the weather permits.
parking lot have been blocked off or temporarily closed. 
Complete restoration of the 
road and the golf course may take until spring. 
The two new dorms are scheduled to open in the fall of 1996 and will each house 275 students. 
They are the first male dorms constructed since Planner and Grace Halls were opened in 1969. The new dorms will house current resi­dents of Grace, which is being remodeled into a new office building. 
The construction of the dorms is being funded with gifts from Donald Keough, chairman emeritus of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, and the family of Joseph O'Neill, Jr., a Notre Dame emeritus trustee and a 1937 graduate. 

SMC offers defense class Business school enters 
mace. The seminar is as much Rather than dealing with the­
National expert international venture 
about psychology as it is about ory. the Gardners teach realistic defense. It is a confidence options for response, based on
to demonstrate builder. good common sense. The on­By EDWARD IMBUS The process leading to the News Writer agreement began when Douglas
Nicci Colby, executive secre­stage demonstrations are life­techniques tary of information services for like according to a report by the Hsu, a 1965 graduate of Notre 
The College of Business has Dame and now an executive in aHoly Cross Shared Services, has Cincinnati Enquirer. In fact,
By DIANA lANZILLOTTA agreed in principle to initiate Taiwanese textile firm, told
attended one of Gardner's Gardner has actually been hurt 
News Writer cooperative academic relations Keane of the idea during an
"Survive!" seminars in Ft. on stage more than once. 
with the Yuan-Ze Institute of annual meeting of the College of Wayne. Gardner teaches self-defense
Fear of personal attack has Technology in Taiwan, possibly Business Advisory Council last
year-round, throughout the U.S.,
been a concern for many opening the door for significant spring, on which both men are
on both radio and television and 
women, especially on college opportunities for the students of members. Hsu continued to
'Anyone can be vio­in newspapers and magazines,
campuses. both schools. play a principle role in facilitat­
but mostly in seminars like the
Debbie Gardner, one of the lently attacked at Plans under the agreement ing the arrangement. 
one to be presented on Monday
nation's top personal protection some point in his or her in O'Laughlin. She is known for are still tentative, but currently With the help of Hsu, com­
experts, will demonstrate how call for student exchanges be­munication began between
humorous one-liners. so audi­
to think and act if approached life.' tween the schools, internships, Keane and Keh-Chiang Yu, his
ence members can expect to be
by an attacker in a seminar. undergraduate and graduate counterpart at the Yuan-Ze
educated and entertained. 

"Learning to Defend Yourself curriculum development and Institute. Both hope that the
Nicci Colby Though part of Women's
Against Violent Attack," on continuing education programs agreement will lead to larger
Week at Saint Mary's, Colby ex­
Monday Jan. 23 in O'Laughlin in both countries, according to a future cooperation to the benefit 
"I feel she empowered me to presses "Survive!" seminars
Auditorium at Saint Mary's University press release. of both schools and their stu­
get beyond the stereotype that I benefit women and men alike.
College. Educational ventures are plans dents, according to Dennis
need to be a bodybuilder or a "Anyone can be violently at­
Gardner is founder of the for visiting scholars from each Brown. public relations officer
black belt. We have the right to tacked at some point in his or 
· Survive Institute, which offers school to attend the other. for the University. 
defend ourselves, and we can." her life," she said. "It's one
self-defense seminars nation­"This agreement is consistent Yuan-Ze President Kuo-Ming
Through a cooperative effort thing you can do to save your
wide. Her message will be.. one with our interests in the Wang and one other Institute
with the College, she organized life."
of empowerment. College," said Keane. "It re­official plan to visit Notre Dame
Gardner's visit to Saint Mary's. Participants may attend one of
"I just know most people can flects the international emphasis this spring, Brown said, and
According to Colby, partici­two sessions: 8:30-10:30 a.m. or
take care of themselves pretty of the business school, which hope to find programs and
pants can expect the first half of 6-9 p.m. The seminar is free to
well," she said in an interview along with ethics, is the major methods at Notre Dame of inter­
the seminar to be a charged Sisters, Holy Cross Shared
with The Cincinnati Enquirer. thrust of our mission." est to them which could be used 
empowerment talk. During the Services employees, and Saint
"The problem is they don't know The agreement was signed on at their Institute. 
second half, Gardner will Mary's students, faculty, and
it." November 25, 1994, when John Similar ties are held between
demonstrate skills to survive a staff by presenting an employee
Gardner's self-defense phi­Keane, dean of the college, went Notre Dame and schools in
violent attack with her husband, badge or student I.D. at the
losophy is not about mastering to Taipei, Taiwan to fmalize the Esotnia and Panama, Brown
Mike Gardner. door.
the martial arts or carrying yearlong process. said. 


page2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, January 20, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Pop culture's apocalyptic state 
In this third week of January 1995, only five years away from the turn of the century, some believe that the human race will begin to re-eval­uate its reasons for exis­tence and as a whole, progress to a more spiri­tual realm. It is predicted 


by some that we will fmd Elizabeth Regan meaning in our lives and 
begin to work together Saint Mary's Editor peacefully. We will feed and grow toward each other and find our particular niche to help society to our fullest potential. This is a wonderful prediction. It excites me to think that future generations may live in a harmonious, spiritual world where the good of society is valued more highly than personal gain.I question the validity of these predictions, however, because of the very nature of our present day situation. 1994 was the year of human digression. Let's look back ... 
O.J. Simpson, a former hero, has provided us with perverse entertainment since last June. Up to the hour coverage has given everyone something to talk about. We have seen the chase, we have listened to the friends of all parties involved. Cato Kaelin even got his own talk show as a result of the horrible murders. And the best is yet to come ... the trial. Television stations have been in dispute over televising the actual trial live or airing it on a ten second delay, so that they are able to sensor any irrelevant information. Is any of this information relevant to our lives in the first place? I don't think so. 
The increase in talk shows is also a disturb­ing fact. Anyone with a big mouth and a psy­chology course under their belt is qualified to rape the American intellect, or at least appear as a guest. Total strangers appeared on national television to tell the world their out­rageous stories. Countless accounts of adul­tery, incest, violence and abuse were watched by millions of Americans over and over again last year. Rather than paying attention to the exploits of those less fortunate, we should be reaching out by doing service to those who actually need it. We can't help if we're sitting on the couch. 
Not only do we have talk shows that invade the lives of ordinary people, but the number of television tabloid shows also increased in 1994. They have, in some respect, replaced the national news for many Americans. Rather than listening to Dan Rather inform us about recent political, cultural and social developments in the United States and abroad, people have increasingly been choos­ing to watch John Tesh and Leeza Gibbons discuss the affairs of Michael Jackson, Oprah and the supermodels. Although their tales may be interesting, the~ are not always reli­able and are usually spiteful. 
It is understandable for people to escape their mundane lives by becoming absorbed in those of celebrities and people with greater problems, but in order for human nature to evolve towards a more spiritual awareness, we must look within to escape the doldrums. Stopping the deterioration of the human spirit to find things in our own lives to become interested in will enable us to look for the innate ~oodness that surrounds us. Maybe 1995 will be better. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


News Production Kristi Kolski David Diaz Amy Schmidt Laura Zawadski 
Sports Accent Mike Norbut Mary Good Andy Cabiness Tom Johannesen 
Lab Tech Graphics Brandon Candura Robert Bollman 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
125 killed in avalanche in Kashmir, hundreds missing 

JAMMU 

Soldiers and villagers took food and blankets Thursday to hundreds of motorists who took refuge in a tun­nel after an avalanche. 
Heavy snow, meanwhile, blocked rescue teams from reaching the Himalayan mountain slope where at least 125 people were killed in Monday's snowslide and hundreds more were missing. 
Information from the site has been sketchy because of poor communica­tions. 
Initially, police and state officials said the avalanche had blocked the entrance and exit to the Jawahar tunnel in northern Jammu-Kashmir state, trapping about 1,000 motorists inside. 
But today, police said they finally managed to· make contact with res­cue workers on the scene and discov­ered that there were about 500 mo­torists inside the tunnel and that they were not trapped but had taken shel-
Former V.P. to speak at RCA Dome 
INDIANAPOLIS Former vice president Dan Quayle 

Jwill make his first public appearance since his appendectomy in a speech to about 40,000 Amway associates at the RCA Dome Saturday night. Quayle's appendix was removed Jan. 4 after a benign growth was detected by a CAT scan. Quayle, 47, also was hospitalized for eight days in November and December when he was treated for blood clots in his lungs. He has not said whether he will seek the Republican nomination for president in 1996. 
Widow requests sperm extraction 
NEW YORK 
A woman whose husband of 2 1/2 years died in a scuf­
fle with police had sperm extracted from the corpse in 
hopes of having the children they had dreamed of. 
Maribel Baez, 29, made the request while the body of 
her husband, Anthony, lay in the morgue, undergoing an 
autopsy. Baez,died Dec. 22 during a visit to New York 
City to see relatives. The 29-year-old man was arrested 
for disorderly conduct after a football he and his two 
brothers were tossing around in the street in his native 
Bronx hit two police cars in the middle of the night. 
Susan Karten, a lawyer for the family, said an officer 
restrained Baez with a chokehold banned by the Police 
Department in 1993. The medical examiner said the 
cause of death was asphyxiation "due to compression of 
the neck and chest" and asthma and classified it as a 
medical homicide, a ruling that fixes no blame. Sperm 
extraction from a corpse, performed in the Baez case by 
urologist Dr. Peter Schlegel, has been done before. 
Thirteen hours after Baez's death, Schlegel inserted a 
needle into the vas deferens, the tube that carries sperm 
out of the testes, and retrieved a sample that had tens of 
millions of live sperm. Viable sperm can be retrieved up 
to 24 hours after death, Schlegel said. Baez's sperm was 
stored in plastic vials, driven to a, Manhattan laboratory 
and frozen in nitrogen. In that form, it can last 20 years. 
Maribel Baez plans to have a baby through in-vitro fer­
tilization. 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 20. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
30s 

FRONTS: 
............... _._.._ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Wealher,lnc. Pressure 
H L Ea 5S'l lTil 0 ~ 8 'l) 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V~aASBOCiatedPrttss 
Atlanta 46 30 Dallas 56 30 New Orleans 57 37 Baltimore 35 33 Denver 35 18 New York 39 37 Boston 41 36 Los Angeles 60 50 Philadelphia 46 37 Chicago 28 24 Miami 70 50 Phoenix 64 46 Columbus 35 32 Minneapolis 1B 7 St. Louis 32 20 
ter there after the avalanche cut off a main mountain road. 
Police speaking on condition of anonym~ty said the motorists in the tunnel were safe and that soldiers and villagers had brought them food and blankets. 
A total of 125 bodies were recov­ered from public buses knocked by the snow into a deep gorge three miles from the tunnel. Ten buses and five cars were caught in the snowslide. 
Officials have not been able to account for hundreds of people believed to have been inside those vehicles and fear many of them have been swept away by the avalanche. 
The snowslide stranded hundreds of buses and passenger cars on the main mountain highway linking Jammu-Kashmir with the rest of India. 
Indian air force helicopters flew 400 survivors to safety on Wednesday and Thursday. 

Norway lifts 260 year Easter dance ban 
OSLO 
For the first time in 260 years, Norwegians may soon be able to dance during Easter without having to ask permission from the police. The government on Thursday proposed lifting the ban, a move backed by Parliament and the Lutheran Church of Norway. The 1735 church decree, made law in 1965, barred dancing, concerts, entertainment, sports events or "excessive fes­tivities" during Good Friday and Easter Sunday.Thom Rafoss of the Norwegian Ministry of Churches and Education said the ban will be lifted "very soon." But that doesn't mean Norwegians can cut completely loose. The new law will still require calm at certain times, such as between 6:00a.m. and 1 p.m. on Easter. 

EEOC sides with flight attendants 
ATLANTA 
Delta Air Lines violated the Civil Rights Act by intimi­dating, demoting and firing female flight attendants because of their weight, a federal commission found. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission agreed with 61 flight attendants who claimed they were unfairly punished for exceeding weight limits, which were based on height. Some of the women were fired for exceeding the limit and others were grounded. Delta dropped the policy in April. The commission sent letters last week to the 61 attendants, and the findings were announced Thursday by the women's law firm, Washington-based Arent Fox. "The pattern of evidence ... overwhelmingly demonstrates that (Delta) implemented discriminatory policies or practices which adversely affected females as a class," Chris Roggerson, commission district director, said in one of the letters. While Delta had weight requirements for male and female flight attendants, those for women were more limiting, he said. Delta spokesman Bill Berry said the commission's finding "has no binding impact on anyone, so it really means noth­ing." The women want Delta to reinstate all flight atten­dants who were grounded or fired because of their weight. It was not immediately clear how many women were affected. "(Delta) will be happy to go through the process and state our position," Berry said. "We will point out to the EEOC that court ruling after court ruling has approved the use of weight charts." 


Friday, January 20, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 




Beauchamp to receive Death toll rises in Japan 
By P.H. FERGUSON 
"Moose" Krause Award 
Associated Press 
Special to The Observer 
Rev. E. William Beauchamp, executive vice president of the University of Notre Dame, will be the recipient of the Edward "Moose" Krause Man of the Year Award from the Notre Dame Club of Chicago at the club's 37th annual Knute Rockne Awards Dinner Friday, Jan. 20 in the Sheraton Chicago Hotel and Towers. 
As one of the university's three executive officers, along with the president and provost, Father Beauchamp oversees Notre Dame's finances and construction program and chairs the University's Faculty Board in Control of Athletics. He also teaches business law. 
Among Father Beauchamp's financial responsibilities are the university's annual operat­ing budget of almost $350 mil­lion and a construction budget that has averaged $10-20 mil­lion annually. 
As chair of the faculty board, he monitors activities in 24 varsity, 10 club and 59 in­tramural sports. 
A leading advocate for reform in intercollegiate athlet­ics, Father Beauchamp is a member of the Olympic Sports KOBE, JapanLiaison Committee of the 
Swiss rescue dogs led search National Collegiate Athletic teams to more entombed bodies 

Association (NCAA) and also a 
Thursday as the earthquake
member of one of the NCAA's death toll swelled past 4,000,newly-established accreditation 
and the bark of a pet dog led to 
panels, which are charged with one woman's rescue after more certifying·the athletic programs 
than two icy days in the wreck­of member institutions. 
age.New fires burst out around 
Under Father Beauchamp's the shattered city, and fire­leadership, Notre Dame contin­
fighters' efforts to douse them ues to achieve one of the na­were stymied by crushed water tion's highest graduation rates mains. 
for scholarship athletes. 
With government relief efforts Also at the dinner, Todd falling far short of victims' Lyght, a 1991 Notre Dame needs, thousands more gave up
alumnus currently playing de­hope of finding food and shelter fensive back for the Los 
and joined the stream of resi­
Angeles/St. Louis Rams, will re­dents abandoning the city on ceive the George Connor Notre 
foot. 
Dame Pro Player of the Year 
By early Friday, confirmed Award; Gordon Tech High deaths totaled 4,04 7, makingSchool head football coach Tuesday's 7 .2-magnitude earth­
Tom Winiecki will receive the 
quake the worst in Japan in 
Frank Leahy Prep Coach more than 70 years. Award; and former Notre 
Another 727 people were still Dame assistant football coach unaccounted for, and freezingTom Pagna will receive the 

temperatures made relatives Jack Quinlan Award for 
more desperate about findingExcellence in Sports 
missing friends or family mem­Broadcasting. Pagna provides bers alive. But several rescues 
expert commentary for Mutual on Thursday revived hopes. Radio's broadcasts of Notre In one Kobe neighborhood, a Dame football and hosts a daily barking pet dog led rescuers to 
talk show on WSBT-AM in his owner, 65-year-old Chiyoko
South Bend. 
Amakawa, who had been dead bodies by Thursday night. 

The death toll surpassed the official tally of 3,769 in a 1948 quake in Fukui, but still paled in comparison with a 1923 quake that killed more than 100,000 in and around Tokyo. 
The U.S. Embassy in Tokyo said two Americans died in Kobe's quake, a female English teacher whose name wasn't re­leased and another teacher -Voni Lynn Wong, 24, of Los Angeles. 
Temporary shelters were jammed with 270,000 people, many of whom had fled homes they feared may yet collapse. More than 800 aftershocks have riddled the Kobe-Osaka region. 
Some shelters were so short of food they kept rations to one fistful of rice per person. 
Prime Minister Tomiichi 


included a 9-year-old boy and a 94-year-old man. 
The shocking extent of the damage moved Japan's em­peror, who rarely comments on natural disasters, to offer con­dolences, appeal for "strong solidarity" and urge more pre­cautions in the future. 
More than 21,600 people were injured, and more than 30,400 homes and buildings were severely damaged or de­stroyed in and around Kobe, a once-vibrant port of 1.4 million people.Six U.S. Air Force C-130 transport planes flew supplies to nearby Osaka, including 15,000 blankets for survivors huddled in emergency shelters. More flights were planned Friday. 
Switzerland dispatched a team of rescuers with trained dogs, which discovered four miles southwest of Tokyo and described the devastation as "much worse than I had ex­pected ... a disaster that nobody could even imagine." 

Emperor Akihito, in his first public statement since the quake, expressed condolences "from the bottom of my heart" and said he was praying "for the earliest recovery" of the injured. 
"I truly hope everyone can overcome this unfortunate pe­riod through strong solidarity and cooperation and that our wisdom will be brought to bear to make our country stronger and safer against disasters." 
Criticism is growing that Japanese authorities were un­prepared for the disaster. 
After a period of indecision, the government agreed Thursday to accept internation­al aid. 

9 month-12 month Leases 
Furnished Apartments, All Utilities Covered, Central Air 



Leasing Now for August 1995 
Make yOur apartment selection early! 
These apartments will feature the high~efficiency, energy~saving heat pump. 




....-----------­
~­

page4 The Observer • NEWS 
Despite efforts, deficit worsens 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Despite the Clinton adminis­tration's aggressive campaign for trade agreements, America's trade deficit is wors­ening and on track toward a record exceeding $150 billion for 1994. 
The Commerce Department reported Thursday that the deficit in November climbed 
4.3 percent to $10.53 billion, up from a revised $10.10 bil­lion in October. 
U.S. exports of goods and ser­vices, helped by a giant surge in sales of commercial airlin­ers, were up 2.2 percent to a record $61.16 billion. 
But imports climbed at an even faster pace of 2.5 percent to $71.69 billion, the seventh straight month they have hit a new high. The gain in November reflected in part a higher foreign oil bill and more imports of autos. The trade gap is the difference between im­ports and exports. 
The Clinton administration, which counts among its great­est achievements a round of market-opening trade agree­ments, blamed the deteriorat­ing trade performance on un­equal economic growth rates among America's major trad­ing partners. 
"On the good news, our eco­nomic recovery continues. That puts American consumers in a position to purchase goods from abroad. The bad news is other economies are not per­forming as well," said White House press secretary Mike McCurry. 
But some private ecutnoJrmsl.s contended that major trad barriers, especially in Jap and China, were to blame as well. Despite several market­opening agreements, the United States has been unable to strike a deal with Japan on autos and auto parts, which ac­count for nearly two-thirds of the deficit with Japan. 
"Even if our economy slows we are still going to be left with big deficits," said Lawrence Chimerine, an economist at the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington. "It reflects closed markets in Japan and China and it is something we can't keep tolerating." 
Through the rrrst 11 months 
of 1994, the U.S. deficit in 
goods was running at an an­
nual rate of $152.5 billion ­
on track to surpass the record 
of $152.1 billion set in 1987. 
In a second report Thursday, the Labor Department said the number of Americans filing first-time claims for unem-
I£H.lll7E"·~ 
Muffin Man RestaurJnt Delivers to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Philly ~steaks Chicken Phitly
tnJMote... 
To Older call: 
282-1575 
llus, Frt, and Sal 
7:00p.m. -10:00 
.m. 
arry 
Only 2 Houses Left! 
•4
and 5 Bedroom 

•Security
Systems 

•Fully
Furnished 




287-4989 Pat McKelvey $100 OFF 
First month's rent with this ad 
U.S. trade in goods and services 
The month-by-month changes in the ~vemment's new trade report, which mcludes trade in services as well as trade in goods. The following listing shows the overall deficit, the deficit in goods and the surplus in services. 
Source: U.S. Dept. of Commerce AP 
ployment benefits dropped by a sharp 31,000 last week to 323,000, the lowest figure in three weeks. 
Marilyn Schaja, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said this decline was more indicative of the strong labor market although she cau­tioned that jobless claims are extremely erratic during holi­day periods. 
The country's worsening trade performance was certain 







MISS ­
SIGN-UPS JANUARY 23 OR 24 
SIGN-UP IN THE DINING HALLS ON JANUARY 23 OR 24. BY SIGNING-UP YOU AGREE NOT TO EAT DINNER ON 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1. 
FOR EACH MEAL MISSED THE NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES WILL MAKE A DONATION TO
-----------------------1


SPECIAL OLYMPICS. 
For more information about Late Night Olympics call the RecSports Office at 631-6100. 
to present political headaches for the administration. 
Opponents of the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico are re­grouping to fight Clinton's pro­posal to offer Mexico $40 bil­lion in loan guarantees to sta­bilize the American economy. 
Ross Perot, one of NAFTA's most vocal opponents, has res­urrected his charges of a "giant sucking sound," saying that now it is not only American jobs flowing to Mexico but taxpayer money as well. 
The government report Thursday showed that even be­fore the December free-fall of the peso, which triggered Mexico's current financial cri­sis, America's trade perfor­mance with Mexico was deteri­orating. 
The U.S. trade shortfall with Mexico was $378 million in November, inore than a four­fold increase. Analysts said even if the U.S. rescue package stabilizes the Mexican econ­omy, the U.S. deficit will grow in coming months as the weak­er peso prices U.S. products out of the Mexican market. 
For November, the deficit with Japan dropped by 6.9 per­cent to $6.19 billion, still the third highest deficit on record for any country. The trade gap with Japan is running at an an­nual rate of $65.6 billion, far ahead of the 1993 record of $59.1 billion. 
Friday, January 20, 1995 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Lending a helping hand 
Notre Dame students explore various service opportunities at the Center for Social Concerns Festival. 


Mob escapes blame 
1\.:;sociated Press 

TALLAHASSEE 
None of the members of a white mob that rampaged through a black community 72 years ago will be charged with murder, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement concluded this week. 
A criminal probe into the 



A -MEAL 
racial violence that wiped out Rosewood in January 1923 and left at least eight people dead found that none of the mob members who could be traced are still alive. The town had a population of about 100. 
In all, 16 people were identi­fied as participating in the mob violence, and at least 14 are dead, said the report, released Wednesday. 
Friday, January 20, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
De Klerk threatens to resign Debate grows over 
Tension arises over question of amnesty 
By PATRICK McDOWELL 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 
Deputy President F. W. de Klerk threatened to resign Thursday over allegations his white government tried to grant amnesty to 3,500 security officials in its waning days. 
De Klerk's threat caused jit­ters on the South African stock market. 
His presence in the new coali­tion government is seen as cru­cial to South Africa's peaceful transition from apartheid to a multiracial democracy, and investors count on his National Party to curb any attempts to radically refor·m the economy. 
De Klerk said he and his party were subjected to "an un­fair,. unjustified and to us total­ly unacceptable" attack during a heated Cabinet meeting on the amnesty accusations Wednesday. 
"It was so serious that I felt myself obliged to inform the Cabinet that I would have to consider my position," he said in a speech opening his party congress Thursday. 
President Nelson Mandela denied there was a crisis: "The government is on course and is very strong. We have differ­ences here and there, but we have had differences right from the beginning." 
The amnesty issue surfaced last week when Justice Minister Dullah Omar, of the dominant African National Congress. said National Party officials secretly granted amnesty to 3,500 po­lice and top security officials ahead of last April's election. 
The amnesties were never granted, and De Klerk insisted that it was police -not politi­cians -who raised the issue. 
The officials -including two former Cabinet ministers and the national police chief ­were charged with politically motivated crimes against the majority black population, including arson, assault and even attempted murder. 
After Wednesday's meeting, the Cabinet said the police amnesties were not granted because the cases had not been properly handled. In part, the ANC objected that the amnesty seekers had not been specific about their crimes. 

The ANC has offered amnesty in exchange for full disclosure, saying South Africans must face the crimes of the past before the country can move on. 
The officials could still chal­lenge the Cabinet decision in court, or make full disclosure to a proposed Truth Commission and escape punishment for all but the most heinous crimes. 
De Klerk said he would meet with Mandela soon to discuss his complaints about the way the government was being con­ducted. 
"If the reaction is positive, the government of national unity will. I hope, soon continue with the good work that has already been begun." de Klerk said. 
"Should the reaction be nega­tive, the National Party will be obliged to give thorough con­sideration to all available op­tions." 
De Klerk said the ANC was becoming increasingly intoler­ant of oppsition and criticism, and that its members "tend more and more to become im­patient and to adopt a bully attitude when they are opposed or questioned. 


Earthquake rocks Columbia 
By CHRIS TORCHIA 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA. Colombia 
An 6.5 magnitude earthquake rocked Colombia on Thursday, killing at least one person and damaging buildings in several 
The ickory 
Uillaee Love Affair 
Look At What 

$295 
Can Get You: 
• 
AGreat One-Bedroom Apartment 

• 
(Efficiencies from $280, Two Bedrooms Available from $355!) 

• 
Sparkling Povl and Sundeck 

• 
Beautiful Clubhouse 

• 
Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees 

• 
Attentive Staff 

• 
Laundry Facilities 

• 
Cable TV Available Close to Great Shopping 

• 
Air Conditioning 

• 
24-hour Emergency M?intenance 


212-1880 

JEFFERSON 
Call or stop by today and v.e11 show you how great hving at Hickory Village c111 be. 


+llCKORij VlLLA(3Efj 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
cities. 
Television reported two more people were killed near the epi­center. but that could not be immediately confirmed. 
The quake, centered in east­ern Colombia's sparsely popu­lated plains, was felt some 550 miles away in Caracas, Venezuela. 
With news reports of Japan's massive quake on Tuesday still making headlines here, nerves were on edge. 
Hundreds of people bolted out of swaying buildings in Colombia's capital. 
"I kept thinking about Japan," said Isabel Malaver, a 19-year-old student who sought 

shelter in her doorway in Bogota. 
Rescue workers were flying over the region near the epicenter in helicopters, check­ing for damage. 
Initial reports were that dam­age was light, said Omar Dario Cardona, director of the gov­ernment's disaster office. 
The quake registered a preliminary magnitude of 6.9 at its spicenter in Tauramena, 90 miles east of Bogota, according to the Geophysics Institute of the University of the Andes. 
But Pat Jorgenson of the U.S. Geological Survey in Menlo Park, Calif., said their instru­ments showed the quake at 6.5. 

Marcos' assests 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines 
The government's chief lawyer said Thursday he would like to share the wealth of the late Ferdinand Marcos with victims of his regime. 
But another official in charge of finding and recovering the money says that would be ille­gal. 
On Wednesday, a federal jury in Honolulu awarded $766 mil­lion in compensatory damages for 9,070 people tortured by the Marcos regime who filed a class-action lawsuit. 
"We have always been open to them," said Solicitor General Raul Goco, the government's chief lawyer. 
But Philippine law requires all recovered Marcos assets be used for the government's land reform program, said Magtanggol Gunigundo, chair­man of the Philippine Presidential Commission on Good Government. 
Gunigundo expressed "regret that we cannot share with them the fruits of our recovery efforts," and suggested the law be amended. Several previous attempts to amend it have failed because of disagreement over the amount to be given to the victims. 
Bill Johnson, lawyer for the Marcos estate, said he would appeal the award. 
But lawyers for the defen­dants said they would start ne­gotiations with the Philippine government to collect the money from the late dictator's estate, worth an estimated $1.4 billion. 
"We have always been open to them," said Solicitor General Raul Goco, the government's chief lawyer. 
Marcos and his family fled the Philippines in 1986, and he died three years later in exile in Hawaii. 
In 1993, the U.S. federal jury found the Marcos estate liable for the torture, summary exe­cution and disappearance of thousands of Filipinos between 1972 and 1986. 
The jury then decided on $1.2 billion in punitive dam­ages, meant to punish wrong­doing. 
The compensatory award for pain, suffering and loss of earning power was based on a close examination of the com­plaints of 137 plaintiffs selected at random. 
Philippine Senate Majority Leader Alberto Romulo said the ruling "reestablished the guilt of the Marcoses as human rights violators. They should answer for it." 
There was no immediate re­action from the Marcos family. Rep. Ferdinand Marcos Jr. re­fused to comment, saying he will first consult his family's lawyers. 
ported the theft of his license plate from his vehicle while parked in the 06 park­ing lot. 
1:07 p.m. An off-campus student re­
3:11 p.m. Security and Notre Dame ported vandalism to her vehicle while -Fire Dept. responded to acar ftre at parked In the C 1 parking lot. 

yniverslly Village. 
'1 t'UES., JAN.17'th 


1:10 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident re· ---9:30p.m. An off-campus student re­ported the theft of his jacket and gymported the theft of his hubcaps from his bag from the third floor weight room of vehicle while parked In the 02 parldng the Rockne Memorial Building.
lot. lt\i 

3:15p.m. A Fisher Hall resident re­WED., JA~, 18th 
ported the theft of his bike from the 2:SI,lp.m/ Fisher Hall bike rack
Hafl resident re-




ELECTRONIC BOO 
ONEV. SAVE 
. . 
I 

Fi you need, sell the books you don't! More tion at acomputerlab cluster near you! 





SWIMMING & DIVING 
Saturday, January 21 
Noon 


Rolf's Aquatic Center (Located at Gate 5 JACC) Free Admission! 
Friday, January 20, 1995 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 7 
Abortion training proposed 
By MICHAEL LANDWEBER Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Abortion training should be required for medical students specializing in obstetrics and gynecology, groups favoring abortion rights said Thursday, asserting that "reproductive health care is a basic health care." 
"We physicians are working hard to see that safe abortion services remain accessible to the women we serve," said David Grimes, chair of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists Task Force on Violence. 
His organization is urging the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education to make abortion training manda­tory "for resident physicians in our area," he said. 
He added that medical stu­dents with a moral or religious objection to abortion would not be forced to participate in training. 
Among the other groups pushing for the curriculum change are the Feminist Majority Foundation, the Center for Reproductive Law and Policy, the National Abortion Federation and Planned Parenthood. 
At a press conference, the 
groups introduced a new orga­nization called Medical Students for Choice to help lobby for the change and encourage other students to become abortion providers. Abortion training is now required by 12 percent of med­ical schools. 
"Our ultimate goal is to en­courage medical students to be­come abortion providers and to support their colleagues who do," the MSFC said in a press release. 
"In order for choice and access to be a reality for women, doctors must be well trained to provide abortion ser­vices." 
White House to boost Clinton's reputation 
The Observer is now accepting applications for: 1995-96 Editor-In-Chief Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and possess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. Applicants should submit a resume and five-page statement to jake Peters by 4:00 p.m. january 27, 1995. For additional information about the position or appli­cation process, contact Peters at 631-4542 or stop by the office on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center.  
If you signed up for rtJmember the RALLY DAY! 11:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. Saturday, Jan. 21 LaFortune Ballroom lunch will be served! If you would still 1/kt; to slen up for Communlt/t;s NO, comt; to t;/tht;r Campus Ministry offlct; by THURSOA Y JAN. 19 for a form. Badin Hall 103 He:;l?urgh Lll?rary or call Kate Barrett Darrell Paul:;en 631-5242  

By TERENCE HUNT Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The White House began a public relations drive Thursday to revive Bill Clinton's belea­guered presidency, asserting he's fulfilled most of his cam­paign promises halfway through his term even if voters don't give him credit. The administration distributed a 37 -page packet claiming what chief of staff Leon Panetta called "an unrivaled record of accomplishment with substan­tial benefits for millions of American families." 
At the top of the list were a string of economic achieve­ments: the creation of 5.6 mil­lion new jobs, the lowest un­employment rate in four years and passage of a $700 billion deficit-reduction plan. The doc­ument acknowledged no fail­ures, even on health reform, Clinton's signature proposal which was shelved by Congress last year. Its status was listed as "proposed." The middle­class tax cut that Clinton delayed proposing for two years was listed as "pending." 
Clinton himself staged a cer­emony in the Roosevelt Room to call attention to a little-no­ticed bill he signed in early December to keep chronic pen­sion underfunding from de­veloping into another savings and loan debacle. "We used the power of government to avert a potential crisis, protecting mil­lions of retirees, corporate pen­sion plans and the taxpayers from huge potential losses," the president said. 
Making his debut in the brief­ing room, Clinton's new press secretary, Mike McCurry, said many Americans aren't aware of the administration's record, in part because the White House has done a poor commu­nications job and hasn't been focused. "We've had so many exciting things to talk about in the first two years that some­times you . . . maybe get lost in the forest when you're trying to talk about all the individual trees," he said. He promised to do better. 
The White House said that of 58 major policies listed in Clinton's campaign manifesto, "Putting People First," some action had been taken on 98 percent. There has been sub­stantial or partial accomplish­ment on 78 percent of the pledges, it said. 
Friday marks the second an­niversary of Clinton's inaugura­tion, and the political climate has changed dramatically with the ouster of Democrats from power in Congress and with Republican election triumphs across the country. 
Republicans are closely watching Clinton's rehabilita­tion effort, and they give him credit for proving his resiliency in the past. But Republican National Chairman Haley Barbour said Thursday that voters last year "rejected Bill Clinton's policies" in favor of the GOP's agenda of lower taxes, smaller government and less spending. 

showed Rosie Grier how to signal a touchdown for the Irish. Now she is 21. Happy Birthday, Jess. Love, Dad. 

<HFin UF KECREAfiUNAL SPORTS 
RecSport PLAYER BOARD 
WIIAI: The PLAYER BOARD is used for persons intere;ted in invidual sports who are having trouble finding opponents. 
~: Any N.D. Faculty, Staff or Student. 
~: Help in finding partners in the sport or your choice. 
~: Thats's up to you! Call the RecSport Issue Room at 631-5267 for court reservations. 
WHERE: At any available court space. See your friendly ~('~m •ttondant •~• -~•••H·lCP!'P~ 
*THE RecSport PLAYER BOARD IS LOCATED THE WALL NEXT TO THE RecSport OFFICE. '-'vn....,_ INTO THE OFFICE FOR YOUR OWN FORM. ** IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS REGARDING THE PLAYER BOARD PLEASE CALL 631-6100. 
page 8 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS Friday, January 20, 1995 
Republicans criticize $30 billion anti-crime bill 
By MARCY GORDON 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
House Republicans, seeking more spending on prisons, are going after midnight basketball leagues and similar programs as they make a major assault on the $30 billion anti-crime bill passed in the last Congress. 
As part of their legislative blueprint called the "Contract With America," the Republicans seek to kill many of the crime prevention provi­sions in the new law, letting communities decide whether to hire police or spend the money in other ways. 
But Attorney General Janet Reno said today she would fight to preserve the crime law's money for 100,000 new local police officers and she ex­pressed concern that the Republican plan to fold police and prevention programs into block grants could lead to waste. 
"I want 100,000 police offi­cers on the streets of America because ... it's making a differ­ence" in areas that already have received some money, Reno told her weekly news con­ference. "When somebody pro­poses a block grant ... I'm not sure where the money's going to go.... Are all the cities going to get it? Is it going for police officers or is it going for ... some fancy piece of equipment that's going to sit on the shelf?" 
The GOP bill would spend more on prison construction, but provide it only to states that jail violent criminals for at least 85 percent of their sen­tences. 
"Republicans are trying to correct some terrible flaws in last year's bill," Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Fla., chairman of the House Judiciary Committee's crime subcommit­tee, said Wednesday. He said the GOP legislation "will go a long way toward putting deter­rence back in the criminal jus-
BED 'N BREAKFAS REGISTRY 
Rooms in private homes for: JP\11, BWE & GOLD, GRADUATION, FOOTBALL 
and Other Special ND/SMC WEEKENDS 
(219) 291-7153 

tice system again." 
At a hearing of the crime panel today. McCollum said the new bill "gets the federal gov­ernment out of the way of state and local law enforcement" in fighting crime. 
Rep. Charles E. Schumer of New York, the senior Democrat on the subcommittee, said the Republican bill "is full of old, worn out ideas and so stuffed with political fat that it ought to be called 'Jurassic Pork."' 
As they did with their other legislative proposals since tak­ing control of Congress this month, the Republicans are putting their anti-crime bill on a fast track. 
The House Judiciary Committee is expected to take up amendments to the bill within the next two weeks, committee aides said. Across the Capitol, the Senate Judiciary Committee plans to hold hearings early next month. 
Democratic lawmakers want President Clinton to threaten to veto any new crime bill that eliminates or substantially cuts the prevention money. Schumer is asking fellow Democrats to sign a letter to Clinton. 
The crime bill passed last year "is now under partisan assault by the new Republican majority," says the draft of the letter to Clinton. "While it is not clear that the tough punish­ment provisions of the bill are under attack, it is clear the prevention side is. 
"We urge you to let the Republican majority know you will veto any crime bill that eliminates or substantially re­duces the prevention programs. You have the high ground, Mr. President, and we urge you to use it to defend our crime­fighting package." 
Interested in Writing for or joining the Staff of 


Science Quarterly? 
call Kristin at 7-5757 


Unfunded Mandates Reform bill delayed 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Congress moved Thursday to restrict its own power to impose on state and local gov­ernments regulations it doesn't pay them to carry out. 
The House opened debate on the Unfunded Mandates Reform bill in preparation for almost certain approval of the mea­sure next week. But hopes for quick passage in the Senate dimmed with defeat of a motion to cut off debate. 
"Today is the second begin­ning of the Reagan revolution that will shrink the size and power of the federal govern­ment," said Rep. Gerald Solomon, R-N.Y. "No longer will there be an arrogant atti­tude around here that says the Big Brother federal government knows best." 
The bill, part of the House GOP's "Contract With America," says Congress must provide the funding for most programs imposed on states and localities that cost more than $50 million. 
It would relieve local govern­ments of what they say are bil­lions of dollars of financial bur­dens from such programs as the Clean Air Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Fair Labors Standards Act and the Family and Medical Leave Act. 
Nearly 75 percent of local of­ficials surveyed by the National League of Cities say the budget impact of unfunded federal mandates got worse in 1994. Only 2.9 percent said it had im­proved. 
Elsewhere in Congress on Thursday: 
-Two freshman Republican senators introduced a term-lim­its constitutional amendment proposal that would limit House terms to six years and Senate terms to 12 years. Although term limits were part of the GOP's campaign "Contract With America," Republicans are divided on the proper length. House Speaker Newt Gingrich, among others, says House members should be able to serve six, two-year terms for a total of 12 years. 
-House Republicans, open­ing hearings on their new, harsher version of the 1994 anti-crime law, said it would deter violent crime by spending more on prison construction and cutting billions now slated for crime prevention. Local of­ficials that still want the crime­prevention programs would have to take the money away from police hiring. Attorney General Janet Reno said she would fight to preserve money for 100,000 new police. 
-Terminally ill patients and their relatives asked the House Ways and Means Committee not to tax the advance life in­surance benefits that are eas­ing their financial burdens. Some of them have sold their life-insurance policies in so­called viatica! settlements. Pan.el members said they favored making accelerated death benefits tax-free and that they would consider extending that exclusion to viatical settle­ments. 
-Republican lawmakers said public TV and radio stations may be violating the law by broadcasting messages to stir up support against GOP efforts to cut their federal funding. The law in question is a labor law that prohibits the use of federal funds to influence legis­lation in Congress. Federal Communications Commission attorneys have said the mes­sages are legal under commu­nications law. 
-A Clinton administration of­ficial, arguing against a GOP effort to stop all federal agen­cies from imposing any new regulations until July, told a House panel that the adminis­tration is already working hard to eliminate unnecessary rules, but many regulations are es­sential. 
As for the unfunded pro­grams imposed on state and lo­cal governments, the Clinton administration and many Democrats agree that they should be curtailed, but Democrats also warned of "unintended consequences" from the bill. 

Come to the 

ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB 





Frida~n Night 
and Celebrate the aNew Year77! 
Plus: 


Little Milton 
will play /or your entertainment! 

•



uddll! I~ havin~ a "Coacl-l" Patty! 
Monday Januaty 2gtd 
7:gOflrn-~:gOprn (!:how ~tatt!: at ~prn) 
l=ree Pizza, Lemonade, and Por>cotn fot all. Ptizes given away dttting cornmerc;als (a Mottntain Bike, Pizza Parties, and othet stuff) 
BtOught to you by: The _gtudent Union BoQnf, _gtudent Activities&. The 1-fuddle 

Friday, January 20, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page9 

Rabin, Arafat embark Chechen fighters driven from palace 
on new phase of peace 
By DIANNA CAHN 
Associated Press 
EREZ CROSSING 

Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin assured Vasser Arafat on Thursday that Israel 
would not embark on a  new  
settlement campaign.  
The  leaders  met  for  two  

hours at the Erez checkpoint on the border between Israel and the Gaza Strip to work on implementing the next phase of the 1993 autonomy accord ­withdrawal of Israeli troops from West Bank cities. 
Israeli television reported that Arafat signalled a willing­ness to consider a gradual ­rather than an immediate ­troop pullout. 
The light over Jewish settle­ment construction· has soured relations between the sides in recent weeks. 
Habin said he told Arafat that he would make sure no more public funds would go into new construction or housing at existing settlements and that no land would be confiscated for construction. 
However, government ligures released this week show that more than 5,000 housing starts in Jewish settlements were ap­proved by the Israeli Housing Ministry for 1994-1995. 
Arafat indicated Thursday that he was not entirely satis­fied with Habin's position. 
Palestinians have accused Israel of making a last-ditch at­tempt to grab land with a cam­paign by Jewish settlers to ex­pand their communities in the West Bank. 
Rabin, meanwhile, told Arafat that Palestinian police must make a greater effort to block attacks by Muslim mili­tants on Israeli troops and civil­ians. 
"We are doing all our best," Arafat responded. "I can un­derstand your need for security and our need to have imple­mented what has been agreed on. We have to continue coor­dination and cooperation in all fields." 
Under the autonomy accord, Israeli troops were to have pulled out of West Bank towns on the eve of general Palestinian elections, originally scheduled for July 1994. 
But implementation was de­layed, in part because of a rash of attacks by Muslim fundamentalists that have killed 33 Israelis since October. 
Israel now proposes a grad­ual troop withdrawal, with sol­diers leaving relatively quiet cities but remaining for now in trouble spots such as Hebron. 
Both Israeli TV stations said Arafat indicated he was willing to consider a gradual rede­ployment, but that it would likely be months until a pullout schedule is negotiated. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer. 631-5323 
By CANDICE HUGHES 
Associated Press 
GROZNY, Russia 

An air blitz drove Chechen fighters from the presidential palace Thursday, allowing Russian troops to hoist their flag over what remained of the rebels' former stronghold. 
The victory in Chechnya's capital was a rare boost for Russian morale in the five­week-old war, but rebel fight­ers said it only signals a new guerrilla phase of their cam­paign to win independence from Moscow. 
They abandoned the charred, smoking skeleton of the palace and also pulled back from the train station, another base of their resistance in the center of Grozny. 
Until now, the war had been almost entirely centered on the palace. 
Now Chechens deny the palace had much military significance and promise to defend their capital inch by inch. 
"Our new headquarters is set up and the lighters are in their positions," Chechen Defense Minister Asian Maskhaev said at a news conference in Nazran, capital of neighboring Ingushetia. "We're ready to continue our fight for free­dom." 
The Russians said the loss of the palace signaled the end for the separatists. 
"I would like to inform every­one that the military phase of restoring the Russian Constitution in Chechnya is now practically over," President Boris Yeltsin said in a 
Peace on Earth 
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday 1995 
Tuesday, January 24 
7 p.m., Basilica of the Sacred Heart Interfaith Prayer Service 
A Prophetic Call for Change 
Sermon by 
Bro. Hugh Henderson, C.PP.S. 

from St. Anthony Parish in Detroit, a multicultural and multiracial parish. Popular preacher for parish revivals and renewals, Bro. Henderson has been featured in the Black Catholic experience on TV. 
Shared readings and testimonials by Notre Dame students 
Music by 
El Coro Primavera de Nuestro Senora 
Notre Dame Folk Choir Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble 



Present position of Chechen and Russian forces 
Chechen forces recaptured Grozny's train station Wednesday, while Russia continued bombing the city center. 
[I] Chechen forces holding out 
statement. 
"The subsequent mission to restore law, order and civil rights will lie with the Interior Ministry," he added. 
If the Chechens carry out their vow to defend Grozny, Russian commanders will face a tough choice. 
They can oust the rebels from the rest of Grozny the way they ousted them from the palace ­by a stepped-up air attack -or they can try to nudge their so­far reluctant ground forces into taking on the Chechens in house-to-house lighting. 
If Grozny falls, the Chechens have vowed to take to the sur-
Chechen forces 
AP/Car1 Fox 

rounding countryside and mountains to defend their home villages. 
"Even if they occupy all of Chechnya, even if they destroy all our villages, we'll never give up," said Chechen nurse Zina Labazanova. 
Many analysts, however, say it would be difficult for the Chechens to wage a successful guerrilla campaign against the Russian army, -much less force its retreat from Chechnya. 
Even Maskhaev, the Chechen commander, said, "I know Russia has a great army. We don't want to say we will defeat it." 


Screen Gems '95 
The movies as they were meant to be: Classic films. Big screen. Bargain prices. 
Thesday, Jan. 24, 1:30 and 7:30p.m. 
Kirk Douglas in Stanley Kubrick's 

Paths of Glory 
The film that first brought Kubrick major recognition. One of the most powerful indictments of war ever produced. On a par with Apocalypse Now and Platoon 
O'Laughlin Auditorium $2 adults, $1 students 
COMING ATIRACfiONS: ON THE WATERFRONT, March 7; Alfred Hitchcock's VERTIGO, April II. 




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, January 20, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jakt: Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylaycer Spons Editor .................... George Dohrman.,. Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Don Kingston Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller..................................... Kristen Marc.ina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Ediror, and Saint Mary's Ediror. Commemaries, leuc:rs and Inside Columns present the: views of the authors, and not necessanly those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• GUEST COU!MH 

Gospel spirit revives Church 

I just finished reading an arti­cle in the Autumn 1994 Notre Dame Magazine entitled "At Home But Feeling Homeless." It concerns the experience of black people within the Catholic Church, a subject of great per­sonal interest. 
The year leading up to this past July was a time of great searching for me, a 28-year­old, single, white, conservative guy. I was searching for a church where the priest/minis­ter expounded upon Scripture with passion, where the music was inspiring, and where the churchgoers were obviously excited to be there. I was not finding that in Catholic church­es, so I packed up and went on a yearlong journey (while still attending Mass some of the time, more out of a desire to worship with my law school mates than anything else) to find a church home. 
That search took me from a sedate Baptist congregation, a couple of free-spirited Pentecostal churches, a loose evangelical church, a solid Calvinist church, and several others. But nothing seemed quite right. If the preaching was good, then I missed the liturgy, or anti-Catholicism would surface, or I would feel like I was watching a preacher imitate Steve Martin's "Leap of Faith" character, Jonas Nightingale. So I would try again. 
Then one weekend this sum­mer back home in the D.C. area, I had a friend visiting who had similar misgivings about Catholic worship. Like me, she hadn't found anything better and quickly took me up on an offer to venture down to a Catholic parish in the Southeast that my parents used to take 



"Freedom is only sweet 
when it is won. When it is forced, it is called responsibility." 
-Toni Morrison 
r 
~ 
f 
r 
• lETTER Hl THE EJJ!TOR 
Remembering friendship, character overcomes grief 
Dear Editor: 

One year ago this week, 19 January, there occurred an event that broke the hearts of many in this community and elsewhere. I refer to the sudden, unexpected and tragic death of Dr.. Lucy Pilkinton. 
While in the midst of teaching a class, Lucy collapsed as a result of a burst aneurysm at the base of her brain. She survived until later that night when, in the presence of her family, she quietly passed away. 
That's a recap. The short story. 
The true story lies in knowing and valuing what Lucy gave to so many of us: her students, her colleagues, her friends, her family. I consider myself fortunate that I was, as the past nineteen years have evolved, her colleague, her friend, in many ways part of her family and forever her student. 
As a teacher Lucy was superior. She often served as an astute and attuned sounding board on an amazing breadth of subjects and issues. I'm quite sure that Lucy has listened to my conc~rns and then advised me on subjects ranging from the appropnate salad fork, to baking a blueberry pie, to raising children and on to managing an academic program. The advice was, at time~. softl.y disguised, so as to save me embarrassment; yet at other times, It was no more soft than the salty language of a sailor. There were occasions when I was being taught without even knowing that she was actively teaching. Yet another skill of an excellent teacher. As with anyone, Lucy did not have all the answers, but, unlike many, she was ever willing to help find a path to the answer. Lucy was an intelligent leader, a guide, a confidante, a devil's advocate and, of course, a teacher. 
If you were lucky enough to be among Lucy's many friends, the.n 
you already know how fortunate you are. Of course, a fortune IS 
frequently not fully appreciated until it's gone. Sadly, this is no 
exception. Lucy was ·a fortune. And she's gone. Happily, though, I 
think about her daily. · 
It has been a fretful year for Lucy's husband Mark, and her sons 
George and Luther. It's gratifying to know that they have found 
some solace in the offers of help and sympathy from throughout 
the community and have continued in a forward direction. Those 
of us in Communication and Theatre look forward to Mark's 
return as Chair next year. 
Mark has explained to me, when I have questioned how he man­
ages to cope, that one doesn't ever get over the loss. There is no 
return to what once was. Everything is changed. Everything is a 
challenge. One step at a time. Ironically, when faced with a diffi­
cult challenge, Lucy was a great person to seek out. Always an 
extended hand. Always an open ear. Always a friend. 
BRUCE AUERBACH Associate Chair Communication and Theatre 
me to every so often as a youngster for a "change of pace." 
I hadn't been there in a dozen years or so, but remembered it as a different, sometimes "thrilling" experience. We came out two hours later excit­ed about what we had just been a part of-two young white people (and a small handful of other white folks) in an other­wise all black parish, with uplifting gospel music, an inspiring homily (with applause at the end), and parishioners happy to be there. We agreed it was the best Mass we'd proba­bly ever been to. 
Between studying for and taking the Bar exam, I contin­ued to visit Holy Comforter/St. Cyprian But soon it was time to move up to Rochester to start work. I was hoping to find a similar religious experience. 
I'm happy to report that I've struck gold again. This time the church is somewhat smaller, a bit more integrated (though still two-thirds black), but otherwise very similar. Again the Holy Spirit is alive and well in this Catholic parish, St. Bridgid's. The Exchange of Peace lasts several minutes, and every week I say hello to the same woman who sings with the choir and graduated from St. Mary's. As long as I stay in Rochester, I've found a church home. A Catholic church home. 
Frank Pimentel is a 1987 and 1994 graduate of Notre Dame and currently serves as a law clerk to a federal judge in Rochester, New York. 


ACCt=:NT 
Friday, January 20, 1995 page 11 
Second City comes to Saint Mary's 
By PATTI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Accent Ediwr 
You know the feeling you get when you laugh so hard that you have to hold your sides be­cause it feels like your ribs might break? 
We can all use a good laugh like that occasionally. And this Saturday night is your chance to get that laugh from watching The Second City Live. 
It is easy to recognize names like John Belushi, John Candy, Martin Short, Elaine May, and Dan Aykroyd. They can all make us laugh. And they are all alumni of The Second City. 
A troupe that began in 1959, Second City is a group of six or seven actors performing timely comedy sketches. They per­form live on an empty stage, improvising with the help of suggestions from the audience. 
The group uses only a few props and costumes, and they accompany their act with origi­nal music. You can expect satirical attacks on modern social, political, and cultural life from them. These gifted actors maktl their audience laugh by po~ing at modern times. 

photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Public Relations  
Saint Mary's Arts & Ideas  Chicago's own Second City players will perform at O'Laughlin Auditorium on Saturday at 8 p.m.  
suggests that television pro­grams like Saturday Night Live and movies like Animal House can trace their roots to The Second City. While Second City's Wells  Street home in Chicago is their normal stage, the group, now in its 35th year, is taking its act on. the road. They will be stopping at  Saint Mary's on Saturday, January 21 at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium of the Moreau Center. The Saint Mary's Box Office is selling  adult tickets for $8 while senior citizens pay $6. Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campus com­munity members pay $4 and students pay $3.  The box office is open on weekdays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and accepts Discover, Visa, and Mastercard. Call 284-4626 to reserve your ticket.  


Fundraiser helps save rainforests 
By PATTI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Imagine a land inhabited by 885 spncies of mammals, birds, and. rep­tiles. Imagine a myriad of orchids bursting with color, not to mention nine plants scientifically noted for their mndidnal properties. 
Add steep slopes with streams that carve out mountain sides and form cascading waterfalls. Alas, it is not too good to be true. 
This is the land in the Sierra de las Minas Hcserve in Guatemala, and the Saint Mary's College Biology Club has adopted 16 acres of this precious rain forest to protect its existence. 
Dr. Doris Watt, Biology Club advisor and associate professor of biology at Saint Mary's, got the ball rolling for a recent t-shirt sale from which a $560 profit was donated to The Nature Conservancy's Adopt-An-Acre Program at the cost of $35 per acre. 
The club expressed its ecological concerns by. selling 160 Human-i-Tees to members of the Saint Mary's Community. 
They did so because, according to a report published by the Nature Conservancy International Program, sections of the reserve have lost much forest cover. 
According to the report, the loss of of the college community, faculty, staff, costs of a Biology Club trip to Chicago only to focus on biological issues.
native plants and animals are also 
and students alike, believe in and con­to visit the Shed Aquarium and other Serving humanity is also a priority,being noticed. The soil quickly loses tributed to the rain forest cause. biologically oriented places, according according to Watt. 
its vital nutrients when forest cover is "It goes to show that the Saint to Watt. Members look forward to other ser­destroyed. 
Mary's community is aware and in vice projects in the months to come,With help from the Nature conser­tune with environmental issues," Watt The club also provides service for the she added. 
vancy, Defensores is purchasing 
said. local community. Its 65 members
approximately 40,000 acres which 
often visit nursing homes and put on Thanks to concerned organizationsthey will own and manage as a "bios­The club will attempt to sell shirts haunted houses for students at like the biology club in cooperationphere reserve," the report stated. 
again before spring break. Perhaps Halloween. with Adopt-An-Acre, rain forests canWatt said is proud of the community the profits next time will help cover The organization was not formed be saved one acre at a time.
and thankful for its support. Members 

Friday, January 20, 1995
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COlLEGE HOOPS 

No. I UMass rolls; Louisville falls to UNC-Charlotte 
t I 
I I I I I I 
l 
Associated Press After Donta Bright converted to put the Bearcats ahead 70­I an offensive rebound, the Rams 64 with 4:29 left. I Marcus Camby scored 27 got two points on free throws Cincinnati kept adding to the
I 
points as Massachusetts, the by Llewellyn, cutting the lead to lead as Saint Louis was forced
I 
I nation's top-ranked team, 16-9. to take hurried shots and foui. I coasted to a 91-75 victory But Massachusetts got the 
I Thursday night over Rhode next seven as Lou Roe scored No. 22 Georgia Tech 87, NC­I Island, the last-place team in on a goaltending call, Camby Wilmington 68 
I the Atlantic 10. hit a layup and two free throws Travis Best scored 24 points
~ 
It was the 11th straight win and Roe ended the run with one and No. 22 Georgia Tech never
I 
~ for the Minutemen (12-1, 4-0 foui shot. trailed as the Yellow Jackets I Atlantic 10), while Rhode Island beat North Carolina­I (4-9, 0-4) dropped its sixth in a No. 23 Cincinnati 84, Saint Wilmington 87-68 Thursday 
row. Massachusetts had the Louis 73 night. game wrapped up with an 87-Foui-troubled Art Long came The Jackets (11-5) pulled 60 lead before the Rams closed off the bench and scored eight away in the final 18 minutes to with a 15-4 run in the last 2:03. points in the final seven min­hand the Seahawks (7-8) their 
Camby was instrumental in utes, helping No. 23 Cincinnati seventh loss in the last eight 
ruining any Rhode Island come­pull away from Saint Louis for games. back hopes. scoring 11 straight an 84-73 victory Thursday Chris Meighen cut Tech's lead Massachusetts points and 13 of night. to 45-39 on a 15-footer from 16 as the Minutemen stretched Long, playing with four fouis, the left side with 18:16 remain­a 50-38 lead to 66-45. Only two hit two baskets in a seven-point ing, but freshman Matt of Massachusetts' last nine spurt that put Cincinnati (13-5, Harpring's layup with 17:54left opponents have lost by fewer 3-0 Great Midwest Conference) started a 20-6 run that gave the than 15. ahead to stay 70-64 with just Jackets a 65-45 lead with 11:13 
Camby missed his career high under five minutes left. to play -the biggest margin of 
by five points. Derek Kellogg It was a familiar ending for the game. added 14 for the Minutemen. Saint Louis (11-3, 2-1), which is Wilmington cut the lead to Rhode Island was led by Cordell 3-24 against the Bearcats over­69-56 with 8:08 left on a layup 
Llewellyn with 21 points and all and hasn't won in Cincinnati by Preston McGriff, who led the Cuttino Mobley with 17. in 13 years. The Billikens Seahawks with 24 points. The Rams trailed 41-28 at 
played most of the game on McGriff made his teams first halftime and came no closer 
even terms but wound up losing three baskets in the first three than 12 points after that. because of a brief lapse. minutes for a 6-6 tie that Tech 
Massachusetts went up 52-38 David Robinson had a techni­broke on Drew Barry's 3-point when Camby dunked off an in­cal foul during the decisive basket with 16:54 to play. The bounds pass. After Mobley's seven-point spurt, giving Jackets led the rest of the 
basket, Edgar Padilla's 3-point­

Cincinnati two extra free game. er began a 9-0 run in which throws and possession. Barry scored 12 points in the Camby got the next six points, Robinson was whistled while first half, helping the Jackets making the score 61-40. 
jockeying for position under the build a 41-34 lead at intermis­Massachusetts coach John basket during a free throw. sion. The Jackets had led by 12 Calipari then substituted for all LaZelle Durden led Cincinnati before McGriff and Meighen cut 
five players with 12:00 remain­with 23 points, Danny Fortson the lead to 35-32 with 2:45 left ing, and Rhode Island got the 
and Darnell Burton added 18, in the half. next five points on Ibn-Hashim and Long had 12. Erwin James Forrest and Harpring 
Bakari's field goal and Shawn Claggett and Scott Highmark each added 14 for the Jackets. 
Colson's 3-pointer. had 21 apiece for Saint Louis. Corey Stewart had 18 and Camby then returned to the 
Neither team couid get a toe­Meighen 15 for Wilmington. 
lineup and got the next five 2, 2-0 Metro Conference) set off his decisive baskets to give the
hold until Cincinnati pulled
points on a 3-point play and a away at the end. The Bearcats North Carolina-Charlotte 86, a stampede of students to the 49ers the lead for keeps. 
tip. That began another 9-0 led by as many as seven in the Louisville 82 court. Louisville (9-6, 1-3 Metro) spurt that gave the Minutemen A 16-4 run helped the 49ers had one chance to tie, but
first half, but Saint Louis caught Reserve Shanderic Downs a 70-45 advantage with 8:48 to up and led 32-31 at the inter­sank a pair of 3-pointers in the rally from a 21-19 deficit to Jason Osborne missed a 3­
take command in the first half. pointer from the top of the key
go. mission. final minute Thursday night to 
The lead ranged from 16 to Lang had seven points in that with eight seconds to play.
The lead changed hands 17 help North Carolina Charlotte 30 the rest of the way. run, but the Cardinals closed to Jermain Parker grabbed the
times in the second half before hold off Louisville for an 86-82 
rebound and added two free
Leading 8-7. Massachusetts Long took over. The center hit a victory. 45-40 at the break. went on a 15-2 run that made 10-foot jumper to put Downs reprised a perfor­UNCC gathered itself and re­throws. the score 23-9 with 8:42 left in Cincinnati ahead to stay 65-64 mance he had against the taliated with a 13-6 spurt that Downs had 16 and Parker 15 the first half. with 4:5 5 left. Keith LeGree Cardinals last season, when he ended on Downs' NBA-length 3-for the 49ers. DeJuan Wheat 
Camby started the surge with sank a free throw and Robinson sank a pair of 3-pointers down pointer with 4:04 remaining, led Louisville with 20 and a dunk, then Kellogg connected got the technical, allowing the stretch in a victory in giving the 49ers a 71-70 lead. Walker 16 points and seven on a four-point play as he was There would be a tie and five blocked shots, raising his total
Durden to hit two more free Charlotte. The triumph, the fouled on a 3-point basket. throws. Long then had a layin fifth straight for the 49ers (12-lead changes before Downs hit this year to 54. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 

Classifieds 

Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots! CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING-HOMES FOR RENT NEED 2 TIX FOR THE KENTUCKY Randy Quaid-PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW Earn up to $2,000+/month working NEAR CAMPUS BASKETBALL GAME ON FEB. 12. We're busting this thing wide
NOTICES 

ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291 on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com-232-2595 CALL ERIN AT #4015 open-WIDE OPEN! 
WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa panies. World travel (Hawaii, -----Michael Keaton SEMESTER JOB Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Apts. in student occupied 3-flat, I need 2 tix to XAVIER earn up to $1 0/hr Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights Seasonal and full-time employment heat included. CALL 273-6212 HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, lAND call 289-Q704 $1591 Key West $2291 Daytona available. No experience neces-*Large 1 bedrm-$300 ANDERSON! 
Room with Kitchen From $12911-sary. For more information call1-*Small, furnished 1 bedrm-$260 I need two tickets for the Kentucky 
800-678-6386 206-634-0468 ext. C55842 755 South Bend Ave.-1 blk west of basketball game. Call x4015 if you I need help cleaning house Thurs. Used Texts Cheap!! Check out ND Ave. deposit, 1-800-582-9320 have some!! !II afternoons, 2 1/2 hrs, $15, call234­Pandora's Books 233-2342 WANTED: 2400 baud external 4498. ND ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days modem. Call Mike@ 4-1840 For Rent NEED 4 TIX FOR XAVIER, GA's or 9-3 sundays Oceanview Room with a Kitchen Responsible couple or single per-STUDENT! 3 HOT MEN are cordially invited to 
$1291 Walk to best bars! Includes Babysitter with experience, trans-son to rent a 2 story home. 2bd up, attend POP FARLEY 95 with Free Discount Card which will save portation and references needed dwn: LR, DR, Kit & 1 bth. No pets. 3 UNFORGETTABLE WOMENII you $100 on foodldrinksl1-800-part-time days or evenings. Please Super clean. Ready to move in. Ref PERSONAL Please send resumes to 143 Farley 
WANTED 

678-6386 call259-9261 Req. 1302 Clover St. SB 289-8818 or call X4083 by Tues. Creativity is 

Photo courtesy of LOUISville Sports Information 
DeJuan Wheat scored 20 points for Louisville last night, but it wasn't enough to get them past UNC-Charlotte. 
AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! essential! Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break TWINSI lAW STUDENTS NEED 
FOR SALE
Sailing Cruise! Free brochure CONCERT PROMOTION: ENERGETIC AND RESPONSIBLE The Widow Ranter still needs per-Happy Birthday to my Dad, 
1 (800)359-9808 Upcoming ND BIG BRO/SIS con-STUDENT TO PROVIDE CHILD formers for its cast. Anyone with Even though he may not read cart in need of dependable CARE IN HOME 10-15 HRS/WK IBM PS/2 Model 30 20MBHDrive any interest at all should come to this, no one can say that I didn't try. coordinator/manager. TO 3 YR OLD BOYS. GREAT w/Microsoft Word 4.0 & WP 5. 1 auditions on Monday, January 23. Rob 
Am looking for OC housing. Got a CONTACT 273-2059 WAGES. 1 WKEND NT. REQ'D. $350 or BO Call631-7466 They will be in 284 Nieuwland at 
room? Call Emily @ 233-4345 EDUC MJR PREF'D.272-4649 7:00 p.m. If this time and date are Hey Delilah, 
1992 Subaru Loyale Wagon a problem, contact James Glazier I missed you and I am soooo glad SKI RESORT JOBS-Hiring for good condition; original owner; at 631-4010. Performance dates that you are home!ll
FOR RENT
Spring Break! Bahamas Party many positions (including summer). $10,500: call634-4527 are March 2 and 4. 
Cruise 6 Days $27911ncludes 12 Up to $2,000+ in salary & benefits Hail the SilverWoif! Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great (Free ski pass, ski equipment, meal Room available for rent. 15 mins AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE discounts). Ski/Snowboard instruc-walk from campus, safe neighbor-TICKETS Kidde, Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights tors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet hood and a neat and well kept FOOD FOOD 8 more weeks you bum. The tri~ Air & Hotel From $429! Spring staff, +other positions. For more home. $225 a month, includes use Need 2 Tix for Xavier/NO game FOOD home sounds like fun. And we'll Break Travei1-B00-678-6386 information call:(206)634-0469 of all utilities. Serious students pre-Will pay $20 each CLUB23 always have John! 
ext.V55842 !erred. Call Paul at (219)-232-2794. x-3488 KITCHEN OPEN 8-3 -An lllinios Farmer 
Friday, January 20, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Knicks win in Finals rematch 
John Starks shook off the memory of his last game at the Summit, scoring 22 points and shooting above 50 percent from the field to lead the New York Knicks past Houston 93-77 Thursday night in a rematch of the NBA finals. 
Starks was only 2-of-18 from the field last June 22 when the Hockets beat the Knicks 90-84 in Game 7 of the championship series, but he was on target in the rematch, going 3-of-3 from 3-point range and leading the Knicks in scoring. 
Houston never led in the game and managed only one tie at 53-53 in the third quarter. New York outscored Houston 30-18 in the fourth period. 
Hakeem Olajuwon led the Hockets with 28 points and 17 rebounds. Otis Thorpe added 15 points. 
Derek Harper scored 16 points for the Knicks and Patrick Ewing had 15 points and 18 rebounds. New York snapped a five-game regular season losing streak at the Summit. 
New York hit its first four shots while the Hockets missed their first five, setting the tempo for the first half before the Knicks settled for a 4 7-42 halftime lead. 
The Knicks had a 4 7-34 lead with 1:40 left in the half, but the Hockets scored eight straight points. four each by Olajuwon and Thorpe, to nar­row the deficit. 
SuperSonics 102, 
Timberwolves 87 
Detlef Schrempf scored 16 of his 22 points in the third quar­ter Thursday night and Seattle overcame a lethargic perfor­mance with tough defense, ex­tending its winning streak to eight games with a 102-87 vic­tory over Minnesota. 
Schrempf had just four points at halftime, but scored the first nine of the the third quarter as the SuperSonics rallied from a 57-53 deficit to beat the scrap­py Timberwolves for the 14th straight game. 
Shawn Kemp added 20 points and 13 rebounds for the Sonics. But he was bothered by foul trouble and took just four shots after scoring 11 points in the first quarter. 
Only Schrempf's effort and the Wolves' miserable second­half shooting kept Seattle per­fect in 1995. 
The Wolves took a 62-57 ad­vantage when Isaiah Rider made a 3-pointer with 10:44 to go in the third. But Minnesota had just two baskets the rest of the quarter and shot just 27 percent in the period. 
Still, Seattle's lead was just 79-7 4 heading into the final quarter. 
But Minnesota's shooting woes continued in the fourth ­the Wolvees had just one bas­ket in the first 7:53 -and Sarunas Marciulionis scored eight of Seattle's first 10 points to extend the lead to 89-78 with 
6:19 to play. 
Minnesota didn't get closer than eight. 
Rider led the Wolves with 22 points, despite coming off the bench for just the second time this season after missing the last two days of practice with a jammed left thumb. 
Bucks 120, Bullets 115 
Glenn Robinson scored 30 points and Todd Day added 29 as the Milwaukee Bucks beat the Washington Bullets 120­115 Thursday night for their third straight victory. 
The Bucks hit 16 of 18 free throws in the final period to win three straight for the first time since Feb. 27-March 5, 1993. Milwaukee hit 40 of its final 44 free throws, finishing 44-of-53 from the line. Robinson was 12-of-15 and Vin Baker was 11-of-13. 
Baker and Eric Murdock each added 17 points for Milwaukee, which has won four of its last five games. 
Washington, which has lost five straight on the road, was led by Rex Chapman's 30 points. Calbert Cheaney added 21 and Scott Skiles 20. 
With the score tied at 102 midway through the final pe­riod, Baker swished a pair of free throws that started a 13-4 run to ice the game. 
Baker limped off with a twist­ed ankle with 1:21 left in the game. 
Milwaukee led 109-106 when Robinson stole the ball from Cheaney and hit a layup, keying an 8-0 spurt that put the Bucks on top 115-106 with three min­utes left. 

Florida's Spring Break 




Headquarters. 
Ahalf of amillion spring breakers can't be wrong! With over 27 miles of white sand 
. beaches and crystal clear waters, ahost of affordable accommodations, and dozens of exciting night spots, Panama City Beach is Florida's hottest Spring Break destination. 
For afree Spring Break '95 guide, calll-800-PCBEACH, or write to Panama City Beach Convention and Visitors Bureau, P.O. Box 9473, Panama City 
Panama CityBeach
Beach, FL 32417. 

f • 0 I I I I ,, 
1-800-PCBEACH 

Once-dominant Bulls now dealing with mediocrity 
By MIKE NADEL Associated Press 
DEERFIELD, III. 

There's no use pretending any more. These Chicago Bulls aren't champions. Unlike last year, they aren't even decent i.qlitations. 
, qpty ()ne season removed from its. tbird consecutive NBA title,.. Cbicago is just· another s~. sub~.soo team. 
t'Reality stinks, doesn't it?" coach Phil Jackson said Thursday. "You just have to ac· 
t what we are now." 
e'r.e dght where we're 
tJ.pp~sed. tQ . ~e," B.J. Aiin$ttQng said. ''We're not the most talented group. It's a. struggle. We're just over· matched." 
The Bulls went 55-27 last season because they had enough ttrepower left to survive Michael Jordan's retirement. This season, however, they haven't been able to survive the additional departures of Horace Grant, Bill Cartwright and Scott Williams to free agency, and John Paxson to retirement. 
Wednesday's 97·93 loss to Milwaukee was Chicago's fourth straight. The Bulls {18­
19} haven't been below .500 this late in a season since fin· ishing 40·42 in 1986-87, the last time they didn't record at least 47 wins. 
"That's the way it is,'' Ar~ong ·said. ''I've enjoyed years when we've had great teams and now l'm enjoying this year. It's a new challenge for me, a new challenge for us. We have to go out and get it done. So let's quit crying and whining about it; let's go out and play and try to win;" 
He wasn't talking about any one pla er crying and whining. 
But he might as well have been referring to Pippen, who last week told the Bulls to trade him because he's upset about their refusal to renegotiate his contract. The team's four-game skid began after Pippen aired his demands publicly. 
Pippen spoke briefly to his teammates before Wednesday's game. "I just tried to pull us back together," he said. "I don't think it helped as far as the outcome, but we just need· ed to get that unity back." 
And he spoke briefly with Jordan afterward. "He just told me to stick with it.'' Pippen said. ''There's not a whole lo he can say." 
"I don't want to be the cause of us falling," he said. "I don't think I'm the one that's causing us to falter right now. I'm giv­ing my best on the court every night. I try to let my play lead." 
Pippen isn't the only bothered Bull. Both Armstrong and Will Perdue were unhappy about playing little in the second hal Wednesday. 
"Will threw his (protective) mask coming off the floor and I need to talk to him about that. That's not excusable,'' Jackson said. "B.J.,'s upset: he couldn't recognize the fact that Steve Kerr was having a great game. Sometimes, people have to sit down and let other people do well." 
The coach's biggest disap· pointment? "That the teams below us, under .500, are the teams we've struggled the mos with this year." 
The Bulls have beaten top clubs like Orlando, Phoenix and New York. But Milwaukee, New Jersey, Washington, Dallas and the Los Angeles Clippers have snapped long losing streaks against Chicago. 

BIJBEBT tJIIWNEY JR. and 
\

FUNNY enlightening,"FLABBERGASTING, 'MARISH Robert Downey Jr. BRIUIANn YNIGH~ . 
·ng "-Jick Kroll, tlflfSWEEK

1samaz1 • 
• " ISI(EL I EIERT 
"TWO THUMBS UP! Eye·poppmg. .s 
RY The most haunting 
"BRIUIANT. REVOLUdTif:e ~ovies this year." . ·ence I've ha a UfiiEIIT wEEnr
erpell .owen Gl•ib•rm••· EIIT£RT B Killers' to see 'Natural orn "A MASTER~IEC~~:;,~~. "-Roger Eb•rl. SIS/(Ell EIER1 asecond t1me. . POWERFUL. Lewis and "Genius fi/mmakm!ing "-Joel s;,g•'· ABNV Ha"elson are am · 
BRIUIANT display."ASTONISHING. A f film " Atribute to the PLOSo~=E~S nME;
KM ruran, 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE Friday & Saturday 7:30 and 9:45 pm 
-
-
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 20, 1995 
_,..-• FoonHu.t 

Bowden denies chances Harris comeback impacts Niners 
of becoming a Hurricane 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 

Terry Bowden became the most prominent coach to rebuff the Miami Hurricanes, quickly quashing speculation Thursday he might be interested in the vacant job. 
The Auburn coach denied a published report he was inter­viewed by Miami. Hurricanes athletic director Paul Dee also denied the report. 
"I have not been contacted by anyone at the University of Miami," Bowden said. "They have not asked me to interview for the job, nor would I inter­view for any job at all." 
Youngstown State coach Jim Tressel, meanwhile, withdrew from consideration. That left Miami Dolphins offense coach Gary Stevens as the lone con­firmed candidate to succeed Dennis Erickson, who departed last week for the NFL's Seattle Seahawks. 
Dee said he has interviewed seven candidates. Only Stevens, Tressel and Colorado State's Sonny Lubick -who later withdrew -have been publicly identified. 
Dee was expected to inter­view Dallas Cowboys defensive coordinator Butch Davis. He and Stevens are former Hurricanes assistants. 
Bowden's name surfaced Thursday when The Miami Herald, quoting unidentified sources, reported that Miami interviewed him Tuesday. The story stirred visions of an an­nual showdown between Bowden and his father, Bobby, the coach at Florida State. 
It won't happen. 

"Terry Bowden has not been interviewed for this job," Dee said at a news conference. "I've not called Auburn University for permission to speak to Terry Bowden. I have not met with Terry Bowden. 
"We'd be privileged if Terry Bowden might be interviewed for a job like this, but we have not sought Terry Bowden." 
Dee said he did talk last week by phone with Bowden, who was at Division I-AA Samford before taking the Auburn job in 1993. 
"I have spoken to Terry Bowden solely on the issue of seeking his advice and counsel in our search with respect to the issue of what it's like to move from Division I-AA to Division I-A," Dee said. 
The topic was relevant be­cause Miami was considering Tressel, the coach at I-AA Youngstown State. 
Bowden, who was in South Florida on a recruiting trip Thursday, couldn't be reached for further comment. 




Juniors! 
Pacers Trip 
Thursday, January 26th Buses Leave at 3:00p.m. from CCE 
Tickets still available at LaFortune Info Desk! 
"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT ·CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT •24-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 

NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
-



232-8256 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
Associated Press 

SANTA CLARA, Calif. Tim Harris has cooked up quite a comeback story. 
It goes something like this: Pass rush specialist turned sea­side restaurant co-owner takes daily beach runs on the off chance a team decides he can still play. After missing most of two seasons, he gets called by the San Francisco 49ers, plays in the last five games, helps team get to the Super Bowl. 
"I guess it's pretty much un­believable," said Harris, a ninth-year pro who has strengthened the 49ers' outside pass rush. 
He has four sacks in two play­off games, two of Troy Aikman during the fourth quarter of San Francisco's 38-28 victory over Dallas in last Sunday's NFC championship. The 49ers head to Miami for a Jan. 29 meeting with the San Diego Chargers in the Super Bowl. 
"Tim played with us before and one year (1992) had 17 sacks," said San Francisco coach George Seifert, who con­vinced 49ers management to sign Harris in November for the regular-season stretch run. 
"When he was on the field, he was very productive and hard working," Seifert said. "He came back to us handling himself the same way." 
Harris first came to San 
Francisco in a 1991 trade with 
Green Bay, which dealt him to 
resolve a contract dispute. The 
next year, he re-established 
himself as a pass-rushing force 
with 17 sacks, two shy of the 
league lead. 

But the 49ers, unhappy with 
a drunken driving arrest and 
wary of substance abuse prob­
lems despite his stay in a rehab 
center, allowed Harris to leave 
as a free agent. He signed with 
Philadelphia but played only 
four games in 1993 because of 
an infected elbow that required 
three operations. 

Released before the start-of this season, Harris returned home to Fremont, Calif., and waited for a call from another team. None came, so he in­creased his workload at Larry's Surf and Turf restaurant. During the days, he'd run on the beach and at night he'd help run the restaurant, which he operates with partner Larry ·Silva in the beach town of 
Capitola. 

"I was just there," said 
Harris, who continues his 
restaurant chores when not 
readying for his first Super 
Bowl. ''I go back and forth a 
lot. I was giving Larry some 
more ideas for appetizers to 
make." 

Harris prepares some of the 
specialty offerings on the menu. 
"I make sauce for the buffalo 
wings," he said. "It's real hot. 
You've got to try some. I make 
the sauce for the barbecue ribs, 
too. I learned to cook from my 
mom. They're my mom's 
recipes." 

While the restuarant was go­ing well, Harris' hopes of re­suming his playing career be­gan fading. With little more than a month left in the regular season, he still hadn't found a football job. 
"After week No. 12 and no one had called, I pretty much said goodbye to football," Harris said. "My agent had called both the expansion teams and they weren't inter­ested. So, I thought, 'Wow, if I can't even get on one of the new teams, that's really bad.' " 
That was just about the time Seifert went to club president Carmen Policy and broached the idea of re-signing Harris. The 49ers were getting good push up the middle from de­fensive tackles Dana Stubblefield and Bryant Young but their outside pass rush had been ineffective since the in­jury-caused loss of Richard Dent in the second week of the season. 
"George came into my office, asked me to close the door and he says, 'All right. Don't start laughing out loud. Don't call Eddie (DeBartolo) right away. What about Tim Harris?' " Policy said. 
Harris was signed Nov. 22 to a contract paying him $10,000 a game and $5,000 for each regular season sack. On his first play of the year, Harris un­leashed a dynamic rush, forcing an incompletion when he struck Jim Everett's arm during a 35-14 win at New Orleans. 

SATURDAY NIGHT!-ONE SHOW ONLY! 
NATIONAL TOURING COMPANY Saturday, Jan. 21 at 8 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium 
$4 Saint Mary's/Notre Dame community, $3 all students Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office,O'Laughlin, 9-5 Mon.-Fri. Discover, Visa, MasterCard: 219/284-4626. 
• I I I l I I I 


With the Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan, you can take advantage of conducive to saving money. In fact, they can leave you broke. But you can still buy the computer already great student pricing on aMac*-for about $33 per month• with no payments for 90 days: you want and not worry about payments until long'after the decorations are down. The Students who qualify can take home any Macintosh" personal computer, printer, CD-ROM drive or Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan. The solution Ap 1 ­other peripherals with no hassle and no complicated forms. Lets face it, the holidays aren'texactly that gives you the power every student needs. The power to be your best~ p1e­
PAY NOTHING FOR 90 DAYS 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F 9am-5pm 
'Defmec/AaJ/t Computer loan offer I'X{IIres ~17, 1995, No payment ofinterest or principal wiU he requiredfor 90 days, (Some resellers may require adepcsil /o hold merchandise while loan Is being approved) Interest aa:rulng during Ibis 90-day periodwill be addal /o princ/IJa/, and/be principal amounJ, as so increased, will Jbereafler bear interest which will he induded in the repayment scheduk, , 
•Mon/hly paymenlls an esJimale based on apun:basepria of$1,93152, which indudes 85% sales lax,/or /be Macintosh Performa 636CD system sbown above, /nduding loanfees, /he loial loan amounlls $2,044,00, which resulls In a monthly paymen1 obllgatton of13350. 1be monJbly paymenl above was calculatal using an eslimale ofsales lax in San f'rrlnci.sro, lfthe applicable sales lax Is 815% (Chicago) or 7.0% (Pbtladelphia), /he monlhly payment would he 13358 or $3304, respeclively, Computer system prias, loan amounts andsales taxes may mry. See ywr auiborlzalA/1(Jie Campus Reseller or representalivefor curren/ system prias, loan and lax amountr, loans are for a minimum of$1,000 /o a maximum of$10,000, lbu may ialle ou/ more than one loan, bu/ lhe Joial ofaU loans cannol exatd $10,000 annua/Jy. A55% loan or1g1na11on 1M will be addid/o /he requesJed loan amount, 71Je interest ra/e Is variable, based on /he commercial paper rale plus 535%. For /he month ofNovember, 1994, the interest rate was 10,85% and /he Annual l'l!m!n/age Ra/e was IU4%. 8-year loan term wilh no prepaymentpenally, 1be monibly payment and/be annualpen;enlage ra/e shown fJSSUJ11(!S the 90-day deferment ofprincipal andlt1/eresl describeda!Jove and no otiJer deferment ofprincipal or in/eres/, S/udentr may defer principalpaymentr up /o 4years, or utt/11gradualian, /Jefertnenl will dJangeyour monJbly payments, 71Je A/1(Jie Computer loan tr subjed /o credit approval, Apple Computer loan and90-Day Deferred Payment Plan offers available only /o qualifying sludentr, facu/Jy andstaff Offers available onlyfrom Apple or an authorized Apple Campus Reseller or ~/alive. @1994 A/1(Jie Compulet; Inc. A1J rights reserved Apple, /he Apple wgo, Macinlash, Performa and "71Je power /o beyour besl" are registered Jrademarks ofApple Co"fPUiet; /ru;, Mac tr a Jrademark ofApple Compulet; /ru;, 
Friday, January 20, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Wright State no match for rolling Irish 

ByK.CGOYER 
Spores W ricer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team had all the right moves against Wright State last night, winning 67-48. The victory marked Notre Dame's fifth straight in league play. The Irish are currently undefeated in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. 
Beth Morgan led all scorers with 21 points, her 32nd con­secutive double digit game. Wright State played a tight zone, leaving space for the perimeter game, and the sophomore guard made them pay. Morgan was three for six from behind the three point arc, bringing her season total to date up to 27. 
Notre Dame's latest rising star, Katryna Gaither, a 6'3" sophomore newly added to the starting lineup, went 6-for-11 from the field while hitting seven from the free throw line career milestone. 

Consistent with the last matchup between the teams on January 7, the Irish played tenacious defense and kept Wright State to 15 points less than their team average. 
"We really played good de­fense in the second half," McGraw said. "And I think Jeanine (Augustin)was a big part of that. Also, Heather (Gossard) and Adrienne (Jordan) played some of the most aggressive defense I've seen all season." 
It was the ,defense of Augustin plus a free throw to tie the game at 15 that put the Irish on a roll. They never trailed after that point. 
Freshman Mollie Peirick has fully recovered from an injury which sidelined her for most of the early season, as she re­turned to her starting role with the Irish. Peirick found the open players last night as she led both teams with 6 assists. 
Only $33.00 a month.* 
Macinklsh Performa' 636CD 

BM.B RAM/2)0MB harddrit'l!, CD·ROM drive 14" rolor monilor, 
lleyboarrJ, mouse andaU the softwareyoure1 liie/y /o need 
page 15 

Fencing 
continued from page 20 
weekend. The Irish beat Fairleigh Dickinson 24-6, Air Force 20-12, Temple 26-6, Cal State-Long Beach 27-5 and Cornell 28-4. 
"I think it was a very good start and the team seems to be on top of things," Panyi said: 
The junior foilist pushed her career record to 58-1 as she along with junior epeeist Claudette de Bruin went unde­feated. Freshmen foilist Amee Appel and epeeist Anne Hoos made imprerssive debuts with wins of 14-2 and 15-4. 
"Our women did a good job," women's head coach Yves Auriol said. "Everyone made a contribution and that's what makes it fun." 
Trying to get everyone to make a contribution will also be the goal of this weekend's meet at Northwestern. 
"If everything goes as planned, we should be able to 
Open, • 
already 

-

'I 

--
------~~-~ -------~-~ 
-~------------~--~~~~----­
page 16 The Observerl• SPORTS • Friday, January 20, 1995 
• SUPER BOWL 

Chargers' champiQnship hopes ride on Super Seau 
By BARRY WILNER Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
"SAY OW." That's what the hat atop Junior Seau's head usually reads. It's the style he brings to the field, the reaction he gets from opponents. 
This time; the hat said some­thing entirely different and cer­tainly just as appropriate: AFC champions. Seau gladly placed it on his sweat-soaked hair. 
"Say Ow!" somebody shout­ed. "Say Wow!" a teammate replied. And that's just what everyone 

is saying about the Chargers' All-Pro middle linebacker, a major reason San Diego is headed to its first Super Bowl. Seau says everything with his play, which has been outstand­ing this season despite injuries that would have sidelined a lesser man. 
"Yeah, I have the injuries," Seau said of a pinched nerve that has caused periodic numb­ness in his left shoulder and arm. He also has had knee problems. 
"But you still have to out there on the field and perform the way you are expected to, the way you expect to. I'm not going to help this team by not being out there performing. 
"We just played in two of the biggest games we've been in. Everyone of us laid it all out there for each other. That's how you win as a team." 
Seau is the focal point of this surprising Super Bowl squad. Not only is he the Chargers' best player, he is by far their best-known player. 
When San Diego lines up opposite the heavily favored San Francisco 49ers in the big game on Jan. 29, the recogni­tion factor -like just about ev­erything else -will be weight­ed heavily toward the NFL champs. Jerry Rice, Steve Young, Deion Sanders, Rickey Jackson, Ricky Watters, Ken Norton and how many other stars will represent the 49ers at Joe Robbie Stadium? 
For the Chargers, there is Seau. 
"I don't look at it that way," said Seau, the NFL's best line­hacker the last three years and the closest thing to Lawrence Taylor the game has seen since Taylor began to fade at the beginning of the decade. ''There are a lot of great play­ers on this team who don't get a lot of attention yet, but they will. We have a mixture of young players and old veterans, and they all contributed to us getting this far. 
"If we win (the Super Bowl), that recognition will come. But we're not in this game for that recognition. We're in for the winning." 
Seau is obsessed with win­ning. 
His teammates say he is the hardest worker on the Chargers, rare for a team's best player. 
He has been compared to Taylor by some Chargers, and to Michael Jordan by another. 
He led the Chargers with 155 tackles this season. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
SCUBA COURSE -The in­formation meeting for this course will be Sunday, January 22, 3:30 PM in Rockne Rm 218. There will be seven classroom and pool sessions beginning January 29. Completion of course results in YMCA lifetime Certification. For more info call RecSports at 1-6100. 
• SHORIN-RYU KARATE ­Students are instructed ac­cording to traditional Okinawan techniques. Semester-long course that meets in Rockne 219 M/W 4:30-6:00 starting Wednesday, February 1. You must register in advance at RecSports and the fee is $15.00. A demonstration will be held on Monday, January 30 at 5:00 in Rockne Rm 219. Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more info. 
TAE KWON DO -Students are instructed in accordance with World Tae Kwon Do Federation techniques. Semester long course that meets Sundays from 2:00-3:30 in Rockne Rm. 
301. You must register in advance at RecSports and the fee is $20.00. A demonstration will be held on Sunday, January 29 at 2:00 PM in Rockne 301. For more info call RecSports at 

-
1-6100. 
BALLET -Instruction based on Traditional Russian Technique. Introduction to all levels with students being in~tructed according to their level. Semester-long course that meets Tuesdays from 6:30­
7:30 PM and Saturdays from 
10:00 AM-12:00 noon in Rockne Rm. 301. The fee is $35.00 and you must register in advance at RecSports. A demonstration will be held on Sunday, January 29 at 12:30 PM in Rockne 301. Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more info. 
X-COUNTRY BEGINNEll SKI CLINICS -The clinics will be held on the Notre Dame Golf Course and the cost for each clinic is $5.00 with equipment rental available for $2.00 addi­tional. The clinics are January 25 at 4:30 PM-deadline is January 23; January 28 at 
11:00 AM-deadline January 26; February 4 at 2:00 PM­deadline February 2. Register in advance at RecSports. For more info call1-6100. 
DOWNHILL SKI TRIP -RecSports is planning a down­hill ski trip for Friday, January 27 at Swiss Valley. Bus leaves 

The Observer 
is now hiring 
Circulation Drivers 
This is a paid position which requires drivers to deliver papers between 11-2. Ifyou are interested in doing this any weekday please call Joe Riley at 631-5313 
the library circle at 5:00 PM and returns at 11:00 PM. The cost is $27.00 if you need to rent skis and $18.00 if you do not. Beginner lessons available free of charge. Register and pay in advance at RecSports. Deadline is January 25. For more info call RecSports at 1­6100. 
LATE-NIGHT OLYMPICS ­Late-Night Olympics is an all­night sports extravaganza of competing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's residence halls. All proceeds raised from this event are donated to the St. Joseph County chapter of Special Olympics. The date is Friday, February 3, but all teams must register by Monday, January 30. For the name of your hall representative, call RecSports at 1-6100. 
CROSS-COUNTRY SKI RENTALS -Rentals are avail­able to students. faculty and Thursday and Friday and 11:00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. Check in 4:30-5:30 on Friday and Sunday and 11:00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. For rates and more information call the Golf Shop at 1-6425 or RecSports at 1-6100. 
staff.  Rent skis, boots and  
poles.  No reservations neces­ 
sary.  Check out 4:30-5:30 on  

BROOMBALL -Co-Ree broomball will be offered by RecSports. Deadline is January 19th with a mandatory cap­tains' meeting at 5:30 PM in the JACC auditorium the same day. Call 1-6100 for details. 
INDIVIDUAL RACKET SPORTS -RecSports is looking for interested players. If you are having trouble finding play­ing partners get involved in our players board. Call 1-6100 for details. 
NDMAI -Advanced practice (including yellow belts): 
Friday, Jan. 20 6-8 pm at the Rock and Saturday, Jan. 21 10­12 pm at the Rock. Any ques­tions. call Jamie at 1186. 
BENGAL BOUTS training occurs daily at 4 pm at the JACC. Anyone interested should please contact Jeff Goddard at 287-8041. 
lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship Bible Studies friends, fellowship &fun 
7:00p.m. Tuesday, January 24th at the CSC and 7:00 p.m. Wednesday, January 25th at the CSC 
Everyone is Welcome -Bring a friend Questions? Call Mike at 634-1035 or Tamra at 634-2329 
\~"~.\~ 
SEATING 
for 

JPW 
MANDATORY! 
Monday, Jan. 23 Tuesday, Jan.24 & VVednesday,Jan. 25 
4pm-9pm 

at the Center for Continuing Education Rm. 112 
*There are three families per table. One student must present all three I.D.'s at the time of registration. 
Questions? Call Shannon Kasten at 4-4559 
\~~~\~ 
I I I • I/ (I I I! I' I J I' 
Friday, January 20, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• PRO BASKETBALL • MEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Jackson riding bench for Pacers 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press 
Mark Jackson was the point guard coach Larry Brown hoped would bring the Indiana Pacers to a new level. The trip has hit a detour, however, and 
Jackson is watching much of the action from the sidelines. 
Brown had wanted 
1 

Jackson since 1 


they were Jackson together with the Los Angeles Clippers, and the 1988 NBA Rookie of the Year was obtained as part of a June deal that sent Pooh Hichardson and Malik Sealy to the Clippers. 
SOUTH BEND FIRST CLASS DATES: 
CLASSROOM LOCATION: 
St. Mary's College Science Hall Lower Level Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
But Jackson has failed to per­form up to the level Brown an­ticipated when he made the trade, and the Indiana coach now has Haywoode Workman starting at point guard. 
Brown said the eight-year NBA veteran is "not even the same guy" as he was when they were together with the Los Angeles Clippers. 
"I don't see the same as­sertiveness or aggressiveness, the coach said. "I don't know what the answer is. We need him, need him badly." 
Jackson had totaled 40 assists over the prior three games, but the Pacers had lost five of eight. With Workman as the starter, Indiana beat the Los Angeles Lakers 106-105 Wednesday night. 
"It may look like I'm singling out Mark for our troubles, but it really hasn't been one guy. I just felt the time had come to try something different," Brown said. 
If Jackson is unhappy, he's keeping it to himself. 
''I'm just out there trying to do the same things I always do -create and make things hap­pen, that's all," said Jackson, who has played 42 minutes ofT the bench the last two games while Workman has been on the court for 59 minutes. "No matter who's out there, we want them making big contri­butions. I just want to win." 
Jackson averaged 30.4 min­utes in 33 starts this year yet had career lows of 8.1 points and .433 shooting to go with a career-high average of 3.3 turnovers. 

ADMINISTRATIVE TELEPHONE: (219) 287-8878 

(Enter at Douglas Rd. west off U.S. 33, just south of Toll Road.) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: 
(1) You need only bring YOURSELF to the first crass; we supply the paper and pencils. 
(2)  IF YOU MISS A CLASS, YOU CAN MAKE IT UP AT ANY ARRANGED TIME ON TAPE.  
(3)  If you sat for the last CPA exam and later learned that you passed, you will only be charged 1Oo/o of the tuition cost.  
(4)  You are cordially invited to bring a friend with you to the first class.  
CNe have learned that our best results come from students who study in teams.)  

B
y attending the first class without obligation, you will see for yourself why the •passing percentage• of our students is two to three times better than the state average, why our students consistently win National and State Honors, and why many of our students commute 60 -1DO miles to attend our classes. 
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES: 418 W. Jefferson Blvd. Newton D. Becker, BS, MBA, PhD, CPA South Bend, IN 46601 National Director 
Tri-State defeats Irish in opener; Spartans up next 
By SHAWN HOCHSTETLER 
Sports Writer 
The men's volleyball team be­gan its season Wednesday evening on the short end of a four-game match with Tri-State University. It was a more in­tense Thunder team from what the Irish had faced last season in two close wins. 
_"We didn't give this team enough credit coming into the match tonight," explained se­nior Chris Fry. "They were ready to play. We weren't." 
The Irish started the match slowly by falling behind 10-5 in the first game. After a time out by first year coach Steve Hendricks, the Irish fought back to a 10-10 tie only to eventually drop the first game 15-10. 
The second game belonged entirely to Tri State, as they cruised to a 15-4 victory. The Irish stepped up to take the third game 15-12 only to lose the match in the fourth game by the score of 2-15. , 
"Our performance was not representative of our talent at all," senior Captain Matt Strottman said. "We need to regroup for our matches this weekend if we expect to play well." 
The Irish continue the begin­ning part of their schedule Friday as they travel to confer­ence rival Michigan State. They will continue their sched­ule against Illinois Sunday. 
The Irish embarrassed the Spartans last year by defeating them in three straight games at 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought end sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,0CXJ Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: 


$200 
• Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219)232-8444 
Cooking isn't for you? 
Its never too late to sign up for a meal plan and let us do the cooking 
Several meal plans are available to meet your specific 
needs. For more information, call 63 I -78 J4 or 
come into the Access Office on the lower level of 
South Dining Hall anytime during the semester. 
(Access Office, SOH-Room 4, formerly Vali-Dine Office) 
Off-Campus Meal Plans Notre Dame Food Services 
East Lansing. 
"They've been talking about this game since we smoked them last year," comments Fry. "It will take a perfectly played match to defeat them again." 
The Irish have had to make some major changes after los­ing four starters to the graduat­ing class of 1994, including first team all conference middle hit­ter Brian Ceponis. Strottman has moved into the middle to fill the void. 
"Matt has the court experi­ence to play well in the mid­dle," explains Fry. "I am confi­dent that he will perform well all season." 
"Our biggest asset this year is Fry," says Strottman, speaking of senior setter Chris Fry. The Irish setter Fry, a native of Honolulu, Hawaii, set every game last season gaining recognition from opposing coaches and players as a stand­out on the Irish team. 
"Fry is a smart player," ex­plains junior Miguel Ascencio. "He reads the defense and sets the ball away from the oppo­nent's blockers." 
Perhaps the most advanta­geous change for the men's team happened when the Irish welcomed Hendricks as their new coach. His energetic coaching will undoubtedly im­prove the opportunity for the Irish to improve upon their ninth place finish at last year's National Collegiate Volleyball 
• 
Championships. 
"We have a young team," Hendricks said. "I'm co,unting on our senior leadership to form the nucleus." 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
back during warmups prior to the Dayton game. 
But who is not playing isn't Notre Dame's only problem. The Irish have had plenty of trouble with their healthy play­ers lately. 
But because of an inconsis­tent offense, a once-promising season is now in danger. While the Irish still hold out hope for 
-
post-season play (possibly even the NCAA Tournament), time is running out. Another perfor­mance like Tuesday's and all their dreams will be dashed. 

HURRY! 
SPACE IS LIMITED! 

At. h:i.dosi!U'd!Jt>....llan~ lmfmllldldlf./>*1 ~tJ.aim(JJidocapnq. las•not h:Uiod. 
Coundl Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn, 2nd Aoor Chicago, ll60610 

311•951•0585 
Call for availability, prices, and other Spring Break destinations. 
SUBJECT  Evenings: 6:00 to 10:00 PM  8:151o 12:15 (M) & 1:(X)-5:00 (A)  
MON  TUES  WED  THUR  SATURDAY  
Rnancial ReportinQ 1-+  1-16  or-+  2-4 MominQ  
Rnancial ReportinQ 2  1-18  2-4 Afternoon  
Auart1  1-21 Momi!]g_  
Law 1  1-21 Afternoon  
Acro.mling &Reporting 1  2-13  

Friday, January 20, 1995
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
Tough road gets even worse for Irish hockey 
Third place Spartans and second place Wolverines to create big test for slumping Irish 
By MICHAEL DAY Sports Writer 
Up a creek without a paddle. Lost at sea in an inflatable raft. Stranded in a desert in the mid­dle of August. 
This is the kind of challenge the Notre Dame hockey team faces when they host third place Michigan State this evening and take on second place Michigan at Detroit on Saturday. 
Despite falling to Western Michigan 4-3 on Tuesday, the Irish have been more consistent and have played with more intensity over the past two weeks. However, they will 

_,.-need stellar performances to have any chance of upsetting two of the nation's top teams. Having defeated Notre Dame 4-1 last Friday at East Lansing, Michigan State enters tonight's contest with a 15-5-2 mark and sole possession of third place in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association. Mason's squad currently ranks third in the CCHA in scoring with an average of five goals per game. Center Anson Carter, left wing Steve Guolla, left wing Rem Murray and cen­ter Steve Suk each have more than 28 points. The Irish's steadily improving defense will attempt to slow down MSU's fabulous offensive foursome. The unit, led by de­fensemen Garry Gruber. Bryan Welch, Ben Nelson and goal­tender Matt Eisler. has limited opponents to three goals or less in five of their last seven. "We have definitely been playing better defense and have done a better job of capitalizing on our scoring opportunities," said sophomore right wing Tim Harberts. "Winning these games this weekend would do our hockey program a lot of good.· 
-
\ 

Michigan, coached by Red Berenson, enters Saturday's matchup ranked No. 2 in the nation, according to the WBVI College Hockey Ratings. The Wolverines have not lost since Nov. 26 and boast the CCHA's top rated offense (6.10 goals per game) and defense (2.70). 
Center Brendan Morrison leads Michigan with 38 points, and wings Kevin Hilton and Mike Knoble also rank among the conference leaders with 29 and 28 points respectively. Morrison has scored at least one point in 18 of 20 games this season and leads the Wolverines with 12 multiple­point games. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, it doesn't get any easier on the offensive end. Michigan goal­tender Marty Turco has com­piled a 15-3 record and ranks second in the CCHA with a 2.66 goals against average. 
Notre Dame will need big 

games from Harberts, center 
Jamie Ling, and freshmen for­
wards Lyle Andrusiak and 
Steve Noble to have any chance 
against the Wolverines. Ling 
returns to the lineup this week­
end after serving a one game 
suspension against Western 
Michigan. 
For the second time this sea­

son, Notre Dame will face off 
before a near capacity crowd at 
The Palace of Aubum Hills in 
Detroit. Although an NCAA at­
tendance record could be set, 
the Irish insist they won't be af­
fected playing in what could be 
a hostile environment. 
"Once the game gets going, it 

won't bother us," said Eisler. 
"It may be hard to concentrate 
at first. but we'll forget about it 
after face-off." 
With the odds and crowd 

against them, the Irish will 
need complete concentration 
and a little luck to pull off a 
pair of upsets this weekend. 

Experience apile up, TONIGHT! . 
RECRUITING DATES: February 1, 2 and,..J at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 

The ObsaMw/Jake Pel8ls Junior center Jamie Ung and the Notre Dame hockey team will have two tough challenges this weekend, one at home against Michigan State, and one on the road against Michigan. 
NOTRE DAME 
1995 COLLEGE BOWL 
TOURNAMENT 
Team registration forms and rules are available at the information desk of the Center for Continuing Education (CCE). 
Forms are due back to the Center by 5 p.m. on January 25. 1995. 
Tournament play begins January 28, 1995. 

"Let's play College Bowl!" 
Before or after watching the Irish hockey team pile up on Michigan State tonight, let SUBWAY pile lots of fresh sliced deli meats and crisp toppings onto the fresh baked bread of aSix-Foot Combo Special for as low as $37.95. 

.. 

Friday, January 20, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 CLOSE TO HOME McPHERSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

\\EI\ 1-\E\\ 1-\E.\.1 HEfl 1\~1-l ~ B:>'{ OH 80'i 01-1 Bo'l 
\\&.. Hf>-~ T\A-HA ~ 
l 
l 
/; 
B 


J 
¥ 

Q~----------------~ 
OK, r\OB\3E'S, Wt.'RE ~~ 
A<:, tl\'1 I.AW'(t:l(, CCPPII-IG N--1 
'100\.l ~£.1) \\) INSANITY 1'\.E.A, R£.'J\t:W 1\\t: '{CYJ MORON! FAGS at M'{ 'Nt.'I<E S"'i\~G 
C.A.St:. 1'1>\ INNOCENP 
DILBERT 
COME TO THE DARK SIDE, DILBERT. RENOUNCE ENGINEERING AND BECOME 
YOUR TECHNICAL KNOWL­EDGE IS GETTING STALE. YOU'RE BECOMING A GENERALIST... TAKE THE EASY PATH. 

52 Cultural matters, with "the" 54 Many a Lett 55 Hard up 
56 Second-generation Japanese­American 
58 Northern California city ao "Murphy" 61 Dial number &21t's currently positive &3 1983 Jackson­McCartney hit 
DOWN 
1 Five-time Super Bowl coach 2 Nitpicking amounts 
3 Kind of position 4 Squeezed (out) 5 Gawain's title 
a One way to tie a knot 
14 Remains to see 

7 Only Veep from 
21 Remain free 

Maryland &Word with 24 Like the streets family or winter of Holmesian 9Make 
London crystal-clear 
25 Like an angry 10 Gas station lobster? display 
27 Ex-con, maybe11 Galoot 
30 Language of 14

12 Singer whose 
million

middle name is Hercules 
31 Certifies 

13 City on the 34 Swift runner of Raccoon myth 


ioll'Rt. S\li'PQ~O ~ ARGilE. 
IF THATS 0\JR 

\N A 1>\l~l.l\£, 
CAS£, I

-n.I~T I \.lt-.'4't:~'\ ~N 8f>.I) 
'{OO folt--~0 I 
-rnv:;, 'it:~R. Al'-lt> l Dt_<:,~ 
t>.D'll<)t. 'iOIJ -ro 

N2t ~NG 
TC st.~ Sfolt--1\"''S 
S£TI\..£ Ol.lT 

1D St:m.£ 
"~t>" LI'SI.' 
I 

RTT T \Y!A'T'TJ;"UI::{)l\J 
(}'gol\<JIJSl'l IIJ't. 1~\?tD \Hm '3)ti!E \)RIME'JAl 'fl£.Q OF 1\\t. \\\JMI\~ P'SK\\<;. . 
I 

~I'S 0\.l\ Of IJOORS . 
Of CO\JRT 

SCOTT ADAMS 
I BROUGHT YOU A SUITE OF APPLICATIONS THAT ALL WORK TOGETHER. 
iAA'T'S 

UNNATURALH\ & GONE\\1 
) 




A MANAGER. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Dwellers on the upper Oder 1oCoasts 15 Attaching 16 "The Forsyte 
Saga" novel 17 It's been said 18 --bug in 
one's ear (gives ideas) 19 Praise 
20 Perrault's "La --au bois dormant" 
22 Popular toy company 23 Pompous fellow 24 Boston literary family 26 Denials 27 Fido's offering 

Nt.\/E..R\~ 
) 
28 Ete month 29 Skippy rival 30 Perniciousness 32 More than 
unpleasant 33 "Double Fantasy" singer 34Quincy specialty 37 John Scopes, for one 39 C,H,N,O. 
familiarly 40 Enwreathe 42 Eschews robots 43 Resume info 44 Actress Swenson 450omph 46 Musical notes 47 Not completely 
clean 49 New Deal grp. 

35 U-boat gear 36 "A nickel ain't worth a dime 
anymore" et al. 38 Salary limit 41 Hypothetical 
supercontinent 45 Some hotels 48 Flavorful 
49 Brewer Adolph 50 Met soprano Mary 51 Perot theme 
song 53 Pit 55 Weaker ones 57 Displeasure 59 "Now I get it!" 
Get answers to any three clues by touch:tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
SPORTS 
page 20 Friday, January 20, 1995 
t. 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Perfect home record on line for Irish 
By JASON KELLY Associare Sporrs Editor 
Maybe some national televi­sion exposure and an audience of its peers will help the Notre Dame men's basketball team recover from recent woes. 
NBC and at least some stu­dents will be at the Joyce Center Saturday at 4 p.m. when the Irish face 12-2 Xavier. 
It will be the first home game with students in town since a Nov. 29 win over Indiana. Notre Dame won its six games at the Joyce Center during semester break, improving to 8-0 at home this season. 
"We've played a lot of games without our student body," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "Hopefully. we will respond to NBC and our student .body will respond to the team and we'll have a home court that is really rau­cous." 
Notre Dame needs some sort of rejuvenation to rebound from its recent regression. 
Entering their most critical stretch of the season that in­cludes consecutive games against Xavier, Duke and Boston College, the Irish are reeling after losing two of their last three games. including a 10-point upset loss at Dayton Tuesday night. 
"Hopefully we learned a great deal from that game," MacLeod said. "We haven't shot the ball well. We've been quick shooting it and turning it over when the pressure hits and when we play Xavier there will be tons of heat. 

"They're scary." MacLeod continued. "They are as quick and explosive as any team we'll face and they have a tremendous defensive scheme." 
Adding to the difficulty for the Irish, Keith Kurowski, Matt Gotsch and Pete Miller all missed practice Thursday and may not see action Saturday. Kurowski will definitely be sidelined at least for one game after being diagnosed with a minor heart problem. 
Miller is nursing an ankle in­jury and Gotsch injured his 
see IRISH I page 20 

$fvs~ 
TIPOFF 
Saturday at 4p.m. at the Joyce Center 
SERIES 
Notre Dame leads 11-3 
JASON KELLY1S PICK 
xavier by seven 
OUTLOOK 
Notre Dame hasn't lost at home in eight games this season, but Xavier provides its toughest test since aNov. 29 upset win over Indiana. The Musketeers are 12-2 and winners of nine of their last ten. Troy Mick's friend Jeff Massey leads xavier wnh 18 points per game. Pete Sears and Michael Hawkins each average about 12. This will be the first of four home games televised by NBC, adeal that was included when the Irish football team extended its contract wnh the network. 
The Observer/ Robert Bollman. Jr. 


Keith Kurowski will miss Saturday's matchup with Xavier due to an irregualr heartbeat. The ailment is not serious, and he is expected to return shortly. 
Kurowski to miss 
Xavier game due 
to heart ailment 

By JASON KELLY Associate Sporrs Ediror 
Notre Dame basketball player Keith Kurowski has been diag­nosed with a mild disorder that causes a rapid heartbeat. 
It is not a life-threatening problem and he is expected to return to the team, though not for Saturday's game against Xavier. 
"It's not that serious, but it can be inconvenient for people who have it," University physi­cian Dr. James Moriarty said. "In very rare cases it can cause some major problems, but only a very small percentage." 
Team doctors decided to have Kurowski's condition examined after he experienced two palpi­tations in the last week. 

He was to undergo an hour­long procedure this morning in Indianapolis to determine the cause of his ailment. He is ex­pected to return to campus this afternoon. 
"A wire is inserted through a vein to the heart to detect the short-circuit that's causing the palpitations," Moriarty said. "Once it's detected, then we'll know how to treat it." 
Kurowski, a junior from Matawan, N.J., sat out his entire freshman season with a knee injury and the first five games of his sophomore campaign with a stress fracture in his foot. He has two fuJI seasons of eligibility remaining. 

Notre Dame fencers ready to defend national championship 
By JOE VILLINSKI days. The men's team dominated Sporrs Wrirer Cornell 26-1, and handled both Air Force and Cal State-Long Beach by
The Notre Dame men's and women's 
scores of17-10 and 21-6. fencing teams began defense of their "We had a bit of a nervous beginning 
1994 NCAA championship by picking up with six of our starters coming back where they left off last year as they from a circuit event in San Francisco, swept through the competition at the but we managed to come through nice­
Northwestern Open last weekend. ly," Irish men's head coach Mike The Irish look for a repeat perfor­DeCicco said. mance this weekend when they return to Senior foilists Stan Brunner (6-0).Northwestern to fence the Wildcats, the Conor Power (9-0), and Jordan MaggioUniversity of Chicago, Lawrence and (8-1) lead the way as the foil team onlyPurdue. lost three touches all weekend. Led byBefore last weekend's meet the varsity sophomore sabreman Bill Lester (7-0) starters returned a week early, allowing the sabre team also posted a 3-0 mark. the team to re-focus, while also creating The only minor setback of the week­unity among the starters. end came in the men's epee competition, "All the teams fenced, ate, and lived 
where the Irish fell to Air Force 5-4 to together during the week," women's foil finish at 2-1. freshman Carl Jackson captain Maria Panyi said. topped all epeeists with a 6-1 record. "We worked ourselves into shape and "I think everyone fenced pretty well," were able to get some good bouting in," Hajnik added. sabre captain Chris Hajnik added. On the women's side, both the foil and At Northwestern last weekend, the epee teams sported a 5-0 mark on the Irish came out on top, while enduring 101 dual meets over the course of two see FENCING I page 15 

Photo counesy of Notre Dame Spans Information 

Junior captain Maria Panyi will need to play a major role if the Irish hope to repeat as national champions. The fencing team opened play last weekend with a victory. 

of note...
Big weekend for Irish hockey 
.... 
. 
• 

Ex-Green Bay Packer head coach 
Notre Dame to take on Michigan State and Lindy Infante was named the new
Michigan this weekend. offensive coordinator of the Indianapolis Colts. 
see page 18 







