
Tuesday, August 22, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No.2 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Flanner's future tied to Knott, Siegfried 

The new College of Business is a technical marvel, both inside and out. 

li'+ Facts about the 

50 ' 30 20 

'The facility also has a computer lab and an electronic media service similar to the one In use In DeBartolo. 
By DAVE TYLER 

O'Hara letter tells of change; 
News Editor 
A letter signed by Vice Presi­

Tower splits into two dorms, 
dent for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara informed residents of Flanner Hall last night that


West Quad gets female halls 
their dormitory community 

Electric car finishes at Indy, in 4th 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
After a month of problems that left the Irish Racing Team stranded on the sidelines, Notre Dame's electric race car is up and running again. 
The team finished fourth 
among eight teams last Thurs­
day at the Electricore Formula 
Lightning Race in Indianapolis. 
But more important than the 
middle-of-the-pack finish was 
the simple fact that the Irish 
were able to finish the race. 
At the Cleveland Electric 
Formula Classic on July 22, a 
race that Notre Dame won last 
year. a warning from the auto 
disconnect, a safety feature 
that regulates the flow of elec­
tricity through the car and 
automatically shuts the power 
down when the flow is too 
high, prevented the team from 
competing. 
"The auto disconnect warned 
us that there was a short in 
the car. but when we checked 
it out after the race, we 
couldn't find a short," said 
Tony Mascadri, a senior engi­
neering major. "It might have 
just been a malfunction in the 
auto disconnect." 
Since-retired crew chief Joe 
Finnerty agreed. 
see RACING I page I 0 
would cease to exist at the close Flanner. Siegfried and Knott residents at midnight, an­
• FOR MORE COMPLETE nounced that students would be moved into Siegfried and Knott
COVERAGE AND REACTION 
Halls on Mod Quad. The resi­
SEE WEDNESDAY'S EDITION 
dents from those two facilities will be housed in two new of the 1996 academic year. 
see TOWER I page 8 
The letter, distributed to 

Building is pride of namesake College 
By ETHAN HAYWARD Assistant News Editor 
The scaffolding around the Administration Building is not the only new addition to campus this year. One of this year's fea­tures on campus is the new College of Business Administration. 
Located just south of DeBartolo Hall, the facility began operation on May 22. Though it still has a few technical glitches, the building is set to house today's first classes of the semester. 
"We are 90 per cent running," says Sam Gaglio, Assistant Dean of the College of Business Administration. 
The new business facility is approximately the same size as DeBartolo and has a basic H-shaped footprint. It was also designed and built by the same architecture firm and general contractor as Debartolo, Elley­Beckett and Casteel Construction, respec­tively. 
The College of Business Administration also has the same media features as DeBartolo Hall and is electronically con­nected to the latter building. The new busi­ness building also houses the campus' only electronic library, a non-paper database of information from the business school and Hesburgh Library, which is accessible via network to all classrooms. 
The new building is broken down into five major areas: Jordan Auditorium, the Kelly Building, the McGlinn Building, the Naimoli Building, and the Siegfried Building. Each 
see COLLEGE I page 8 


NO credit card will benefit academic scholarships 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Ediwr 
Your answer to the age-old question "cash or charge?" will soon help send a student to Notre Dame, if you use your new Notre Dame Visa Card. 
Tlw University of Notre Dame is join­ing forces with First USA Bank of Wilmington, Delaware, to sponsor a new credit card that, when used, will pro­vide money for academic scholarships. 
Every time a cardholder uses the Notre Dame Visa, the University will n1ceive money towards its academic scholarship funds. Notrtl Dame will also takn in a fee for every new Notre Dame Visa issued. 
"It's not a small piece of change," said Charles Lennon, executive director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association and assistant vice president of university rnlations. "It's money that can help stu­dents come to Notre Dame. and 66 per­cent receive financial aid of some type. Thn best part is everytime someone uses their card, it benefits the University." 
First USA will issue both regular and "gold" cards, and will market those cards towards alumni, supporters and friends of the University. Lennon said an estimated 32,000 people will carry Notre Dame Visa's in the next 15 months, and five years from now 80,000 people will be cardholders. 
Notre Dame will earn anywhere from $5 to $20 on each card, according to national averages. Under those projec­tions the estimated 80,000 cards may generate between $400,000 and $1.6 million every year for the school. Notre Dame expects to surpass these esti­mates, which First USA provided as minimum projections. Money generated by the credit cards are will be used exclusively for academic scholarships. 
Lennon says all parties involved bene­fit from the partnership. The university is paying nothing to participate, but receives money for financial aid. First USA gets access to the addresses of 94,000 alumni, and univeristy boosters. 
However, Lennon said Notre Dame will not allow the program to be shoddi­ly run. The University will approve all marketing materials before they are used. No telemarketing will be used, and the university will approve all mail­ing lists. "We tell them who they can solicit," he said. 
Students will not be the subjects of any mailing, he said. 


The new Notre Dame Visa Card. 
"We just feel· strongly that we should not be the ones who inundate their mail boxes with applications for credit cards that they don't have any visible signs of being able to support," Lennon said. 
However, student are not restricted from applying for the card, if they obtain 
courtesy of Notre Dame Alumni AssociaUon 

an application of their own. Student Alumni Relations Group (S.A.H.G.) rep­resentatives will have applications in each dormitory. if students are inter­ested in applying. 
see CARD I page 8 


--, 
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, August 22, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
The opportunities . are knocking 
The start of the fall------­semester at the University 
of Notre Dame is more significant than the heat wave that inevitably accompanies it, though nothing may immediately strike you quite like the humidity as you step out of the NC and into the 


sweltering air on cam- Meaghan Smith  
pus.  Fortunately, the  Associate Viewpoint  
heat will subside.  And  Ediror  
once you can focus on  

something other than the way you feel like a wet ramen noodle in the summer sun, you can begin to appreciate how fortunate you are to be a part of Notre Dame. 
Yes, you're fortunate. But you're not spe­cial. Think of yourself as a placeholder in a long line of Notre Dame students just like yourself. There were many before you and there will be many more to come. You are only one sparkling link in the golden chain of Notre Dame tradition. 
Then again, maybe you are special. Very special. After all, you are at Notre Dame. Not everyone can boast similar credentials. You've earned your place in a long line of Domers, in a tradition of excellence. And now is your chance to prove it. The only thing you can't do from this point forward is stop and rest. What you can do -well, that's all up to you. 
It's not enough to be a part of a rich Notre Dame tradition. The tradition, like the Dome, can stand without you. You want to shape it, change it, and make it a part of you. You don't want to be a part of Notre Dame. You want Notre Dame to be a part of who you are. It takes a little more work, but when all is said and done, you won't be just another face in the crowd. You'll face the crowd and you'll lead them to heights like the ones you will attain at Notre Dame. But first you have to lead your own life. 
It's not enough to reflect on your years at Notre Dame after your prime has quickly come and gone. You don't want to remember what went on around you, because when you get right down to it, the events you observe and plan to one day tell your children and 
"their children really happened without you. You want to remember what happened to you during your years at Notre Dame. You want to cherish your inspirations, your dreams, your plans to make your mark on the world out there. Notre Dame can help you make the most of what's inside you . But it has to start right there. Events will soon fade from your memory, like the summer heat dissipating into fall. The person you become at Notre Dame stays with you forever. 
Don't be content to be a Notre Dame statis­tic. Take what you can from Notre Dame. You only have four years to reap the benefits of what the University has to offer. Absorb life until you're full. Make the absolute most of all you see and think and do. 
Because this fall, you will start more than just a year at college. More than just a year at the University of Notre Dame. You have a chance to begin the rest of your life and make it exactly the way you want it to be. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column .are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Dave Tyler Mike O'Hara Brad Prendergast Production Sports Tara Grieshop Joseph Villinsk.i David C. Diaz Graphics Lab Tech Christopher Mullins Rob Finch Tom Roland 
• WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Islamic militant bombs two Israeli commuter buses 

Russian forces storm town after seige 
ARGUN, Russia 
Russian forces stormed a Chechen town on Monday after dozens of rebels seized its police station, further ening hopes for peace in the breaK~I.w:~..v: republic. Russian planes, helicopte and artillery launched the assault on Argun, nine miles east of the capital, Grozny, sending columns of smoke bil­lowing high above the town. Troops backed by more than 100 tanks and armored vehicles, stormed the burning police station. Shooting rocked the center of Argun for hours as combat helicopters circled overhead. The ITAR-Tass news agency reported intense frrefights two miles from the police station several hours after the attack. The Russian military and President Boris Yeltsin said late Monday that its forces had retaken the police station, run by the Moscow-backed Chechen administration. The claim could not immediately be veri­fied, and Russian claims of military accomplishments often prove premature or false. Some 200 rebels seized the police station late Sunday night, in defiance of a cease-fire signed July 30. It was one of the most violent clashes in Chechnya in months, and came just days after the long-debated pact finally appeared to be getting off the ground to end the 8-month-old war. 
Filipino pushes to ban Slayer 
MANILA, Philippines 
U.S. lawmakers aren't the only ones unhappy with rock lyrics. A Filipino senator wants to ban records of the American heavy metal rock band Slayer, saying some of their songs espouse satanism. Sen. Vicente Sotto said Slayer's songs contain phrases that curse God -such as "death to God" or "God is failed"-and have no place in a largely Christian country such as the Philippines. "Such blasphemous utterances were actually satanic verses incorporated in their songs, yet (they are) being played by some local radio stations," Sotto said Monday. Sotto, a former recording artist, said such songs "threaten to weaken the moral values of music-loving Filipino youths.' 'The majority of the Philippines' 66 million people are Roman Catholic. 

INDIANA WEATHER 
Thesday, Aug. 22 

Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
• NATIONAl. WEATHER 

The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Aug. 22. 
70S Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
.....,......... .........._ ...,..a.,­
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Trade hawk makes power move 
TOKYO 

Japan's most prominent trade hawk, known for his hard-line stance in U.S. trade negotiations this year, is making a move toward the prime minister's chair. Trade Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto began a campaign Monday for the presidency of Japan's largest party, but crafted his comments to avoid offending coalition partners and Asian nations angered by his earlier remarks about World War 
II. Hashimoto, 58, took a hard-line position at this year's 
U.S. trade talks, opposing U.S. demands that Japan promise American automakers a certain share of its car and car parts market. But he avoided that subject Monday, releasing a statement that said Japan's close ties with the United States should remain the "kichiku" -or axis -of its foreign policy. When asked about World War II, Hashimoto straddled the fence. He acknowledged that Japan invaded China and colonized Korea, but refused to say directly whether he approved of Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama's apology last week for Japan's "aggression.'' Hashim.oto offended Asian nations last year when he asserted that during World War II, "Japan turned many places around Asia into battlefields, but it never intended to fight against Asians.'' 
Ford recalls 1,100 Mustangs 
DETROIT 

Ford Motor Co. is recalling 1,100 1995 Mustangs to correct a possible defect in the steering system, the com­pany said Monday. Some of the cars might have a defec­tive joint between the tie rods and the front wheels that 
.could cause the end of the tie rod to break, leading to steering difficulty, Ford said. The company said there have been no reports of accidents or injuries related to the defect. According to Ford, 208 of the 1,100 affected cars are in Canada. 
JERUSALEM 
An Islamic militant, possibly a woman, set off a suicide bomb Monday that tore through two crowded Israeli commuter buses headed for Hebrew University. The blast shredded one bus into a twist­ed metal cobweb and killed five people, including an American tourist. 
The police investigation focused on two mutilated and unidentified bodies. Police Chief Arieh Amit said the condition of the woman's body suggested she could have been holding the TNT bomb. 
"I could see body parts ev­erywhere," said Judy Shulewitz, a 

Cornell University student who was one of at least three Americans wounded in the explo­sion. "There was blood all over the place." 
The Muslim militant group Hamas claimed responsibili­ty for the blast, which injured more than 100 people dur­ing morning rush hour in Jerusalem and forced the sus­pension of Israel-PLO talks on expanding Palestinian self­rule. 
In a leaflet issued in Syria, Hamas said: "The Israeli gov­ernment will pay for the war declared against Islam and Muslims." Hamas, which opposes the peace talks, has demanded a complete Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank and Gaza Strip, including all settlements, and a bigger role for itself in represent­ing Palestinians. 
The dead were identified as Joan Davenny, a Hebrew school teacher from Woodbridge, Conn., Rivka Cohen, a 26-year-old Israeli, and Noam Eizenman, an Israeli police­man. Davenny had been gathering material for her class on the histo­ry of Israel. 

Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin suspended peace talks with the PLO and ordered the West Bank and Gaza Strip sealed, barring Palestinians from traveling to Israel. 
Rabin said the talks would resume after the Israeli vic­tims' funerals which, according to Jewish tradition, must be held as quickly as possible. Mrs. Cohen was buried Monday night. 
Atlanta  87  74  Dallas  98  75  New 0r1eans  98  n  
Baltimore  88  83  Denver  84  55  New York  84  84  
Boston  83  59  Los Angeles 86  65  Pittsburgh  90  88  
Chicago  88  68  Miami  90  80  Phoenix  99  80  
Columbus 91  72  St. Paul  86  58  Stamford, Ct.  87  53  

Pressure ~ 
H L B &'SJ Irll 0 ~ 8¢-L..J.U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-sTORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUCJ'I CLOUDY 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction tights ate reserved. 
------....-~.... 
----------~-----------------------------­
page 3 

Tuesday, August 22, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 
--------------------------~------------------------------­
SMC to stage "Magnolias" 
NO student interns at orchestra 
Special to The Observer 
Auditions for "Steel Magno­lias" will be held on the Saint Mary's College campus on Wednesday, August 23, and Thursday, August 24, at 7 p.m. in the Regina Hall Rehearsal Studio (Room 016 in the lower lQvel). 
Roles are available for six women whose characters range in age from 18 to 60. Auditions are not restricted to Saint Mary's students. There are no roles for men. Callbacks are scheduled for Friday, August 25. 
Mike D. Morris, assistant pro­fessor at Saint Mary's College and director of the spring pro­duction "To Gillian on Her 37th Birthday," will direct the 

Anywhere in the Country. Anytime, night or day 
Compare these great rates yourself: 
SHORT CALL COMPARISON NY City to LA 12:00 Noon 3 Minutes 
DISCOUNT CALLING CARD  SURCHARGE 0  COST/MIN 17.5¢  TOTAL COST 53¢  SAVINOS  
AIT'  85¢  33¢  $1.84  71%  
MCI*  84¢  32¢  $1.80  71%  
SPRINT*  80¢  28¢  $1.64  68%  

"Rita Duot1C1511l/95, SmntUrrJ Dlyttffl6 Cilllln(} Clrd RIMS, 1911 · 3000 MlltJs 
drama. The play, which was also made into a popular movie starring Julia Roberts, Sally 

with Exxon Summer Jobs award 
Field and Shirley MacLaine, is set in a Louisiana beauty parlor Special to The Observer where six diverse women gath­er to exchange recipes, secrets, Karen Shopoff, a University of 
hopes and fears. Notre Dame student and Plano, 
Rehearsals for the play will Tex. resident, was chosen to begin on Tuesday, August 29. participate in the 1995 Exxon Normal rehearsal times will be Community Summer Jobs Monday through Friday 7 p.m. Program. Shopoff interned in to 10:30 p.m. until the final the marketing department for weeks of rehearsal when week­the Richardson Symphony end rehearsal will be nec­Orchestra. essary. "Steel Magnolias" 
opens November 9 and runs The internship provided full­through November 12. For fur­time college students with an ther information call the eight-week internship to gainCommunication, Dance, and experience in nonprofit social, Theatre office at 219·284-cultural, or health organiza­
4640. No audtion apppoint­tions. 
ments are necessary. 

PHONE SCIENCE 101: LEPRECHAUN LONG DISTANCE RATES 
DISCOUNT CALliNG CARD SERVICE ORDER 
I 
Name SS# (required) 
Monthly Usage $ Address City Home Phone ( ) 
I hereby agree to pay for all charges arising from the use of my Calling Card(s}. It is my responsibility to notify LDDS of any lost or stolen calling card(s}. I understand that all balances are due upon receipt, payable directly to LDDS and that all balances outstanding after 30 days from the statement are subject to alate charge of 1.5% per month. 
Signature 
•ARE 
YOU CURRENTLY AN LDDS CUSTOMER? CJ YES CJ NO 

•CHECK 
THIS BOX IF YOU WILL BE CALLING FOREIGN COUNTRIES FROM THE U.S. (Note there Is no charge for this option.) CJ 

•CHECK 
HERE TO RECEIVE INFO ON OUR COST-CUTIING BUSINESS, HOME, LONG DISTANCE OR PERSONAL BOO# PROGRAMS. CJ 


EC 1587 
MAIL TO. Amencan Travel Network DR FAX TO. 1-800-700-4387 
10211 N. 32nd St., Suite AS 
Phoenix, AZ. 85028 
"II you're using a standard calling card from any of the Big Three, you're being ripped oH. That's because, as explained above, they all hit you with charges of80¢ or so per call. II you make a lot of calling card calls, shop carefully. The best buy now Is American Travel Network's card, sold In conjunction withe the carrier LDDS, which charges 17.5¢ a minute." 
MONEY Magazine, July 19951ssue Page 115 

Save BIG on your phone bills! 
The pro­
and the American Red Cross. 
gram, admin­istered by Exxon, who founded the pro­T h e gram 21 years ago, provides Volunteer grants of more than $150,000 Center of to pay interns' salaries and Dallas Volunteer Center expenses. County, in­Since moving to Dallas in 1990, cluded 75 Exxon Corp. has provided more students from Shopoff than $700,000 to place more more than 40 than 350 college students in colleges. internships through the Exxon 
The 1995 internships en­Community Summer Jobs compassed a broad range of Program. agencies such as Mothers During 1994, Exxon gave Against Drunk Driving, The more then $3.3 million to a Science Place, The American wide variety of nonprofit orga­Indian Law Project, Medisend, nizations in the Dallas a~:ea. 
SMC Alumae Board honors young alumna 
Special to The Observer more than 20 events to include and encourage the partipation 
The Alumnae Board of Saint of all members. Most impor­Mary's College selected Mary tant among these activities Desmond Liddell of South Bend were the club service projects as the "Outstanding Young for the benefit of the YWCA and Alumna for 1995." sponsorship of a house for 
The award was presented to Christmas in April. Liddell, who graduated from Liddell's entrepreneurial Saint Mary's in 1985, during savvy also led the club to devel­the reunion banquet on op the College Collector's Series Saturday, June 10. of Sain Mary's builings, with 
Each year this award honors proceeds earnmarked for the an alumna from the last 10 club scholarship fund. The years who has exhibited lead­South Bend Club was named ership not only in her personal, Club of the Year for the period professional or volunteer which corresponded to Mary's accomplishments, but also in leadership. her involvement with a Saint Saint Mary's College was Mary's alumnae club or with founded 150 years ago by the the Alumnae Association Sisters of the Holy Cross. In directly. October of 1994, Sait Mary's 
Liddell, who operates a suc­embarked on a $30 million cessful computer software busi­campaign to increase its ness with her husband, has endowment so that, as it enters been an active board member the 21st century, the college of the South Bend Alumnae can guarantee future genera­Club since 1987, serving as tions of women the educationn president in 1993-94. During and experiences that will pre­her tenure, Liddell led the pare them to be the leaders of board in the development of their time. 
Dogs fall ill to pet food; tainted wheat suspected 
tainted wheat, and the govern­
By DAVID E. KALISH 

ment is investigating whether the same naturally occurring NEW YORK toxin is in food destined for 
Scores of dogs were sickened human consumption. recently by pet food made with The Food and Drug 
Associated Press 
Administration, concerned by 
reports of fungus invading wheat fields in Kansas and elsewhere in the Midwest this year, plans to collect samples of flour and bran from mills and screen them. 


Government officials stressed there have been no recent reports of people getting sick from the toxin, called vomatox­in for the stomach upset it can cause. The dog food was conta­minated by wheat grown in 1994; the FDA's concern is this year's crop. 
In July, Nature's Recipe Pet Foods recalled most of its dry dog food amid complaints from hundreds of owners that their dogs lost their appetite or threw up. 
"It's a little unusual to have it 

Oduglas Road east to Grape, turn right 
affect dogs. You just don't hear

(south) onto Grape Road, 1/2 mile on left 
too much about it in pet ani­

at stoplight, turn right for the best deals 
mals," said Dr. Robert 
on carpet 
Poppenga, a veterinary toxicol­
277-9711 


ogist at the University of 
MON.-FRI 9:00-8:30 
Pennsylvania's veterinary

• CARPET • VINYL 
school.

SAT.· 9:00-5:30• WOOD • CERAMIC 
Vomatoxin is one of the

SUN. 1:00-5:30 
milder toxins produced by a family of fungi that tends to flourish during a wet growing 

• AREA RUGS 
Decorators Walk Shopping Center • Grape at Day Road, Mishawaka 
season such as one experi­
enced in the Midwest this year. 
OVER 1000 CARPET REMNANTS ON SALE! 


--------~---~-------~ ­
----~~-~ 
page 4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, August 22, 1995 
BEST WISHES FOR A SUCCESSFUL ACADEMIC YEAR! 
from the Office ofStudent Affairs 
Student Affairs Senior Staff Professor Patricia A. O'Hara Vice President for Student Affairs 3 15 Main Building 
t 
Sr. Jean Lenz, OSF Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs 31 5 Main Building 631-5550 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, CSC Assistant Vice President for Student Services 315 Main Building 631-5550 
Alcohol & Drug Education Ms. Gina Kigar Coordinator 
Mezzanine LaFortune Student Center 631-7970 
Career and Placement Services Ms. Kitty Arnold Director Lower Level, Hesburgh Library 
631-5200 
Multicultural Student Affairs Ms. Iris Outlaw Director 210 LaFortune Student Center 631-6841 
Security Mr. Rex Rakow Director Security Building 631-5555 
Student Health Services Ms. Ann E. Thompson Director University Health Center 631-7497 
631-7394 

Mr. William W. Kirk Assistant Vice President for Residence Life 315 Main Building 631-6144 
Ms. Ann Firth Assistant to the Vice President 315 Main Building 631-5550 
Campus Ministry Rev. Richard Warner, CSC Director Hesburgh Library Office 
631-6536 
International Student Affairs Mr. Arthur Gmbert Director 
204 LaFortune Student Center 631-5243 
Residence Life 
Mr. Jeffrey Shoup Director 315 Main Building 
631-5550 
Student Activities 
Mr. Joseph Cassidy Director 31 5 LaFortune Student Center 
631-7308 
Student Residences 
Mr. Kevin Cannon Director 311 Main Building 
631-5878 
University Counseling Center Dr. Patrick Utz Director University Health Center 631-7336 
Tuesday, August 22, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS 

Witness' word against Reynolds; jury adjourns without verdict yet 
By JAMES WEBB 
Associa1ed Press 
CHICAGO 
'A prosecutor accused Rep. Mel Reynolds on Monday of lur­ing a 16-year-old campaign vol­unteer into a sexual relation­ship "like a hunter stalks his prey." 
"He used everything he had, his position ... his office, to get her to have sex with him," As­sistant State's Attorney Colleen Hyland told the jury during closing arguments at the 43­year-old congressman's sex­abuse trial. 
The jury, which began delib­erations about 4:30 p.m., ad­journed for the night after 3 1/2 hours without reaching a ver­dict. Deliberations were to re­sume Tuesday morning. 
After four weeks of trial. both sides focused final arguments on just two witnesses ­Reynolds and Beverly Heard, the former campaign worker who says she had sex with the congressman when she was an underage 16 and 17. 
The Illinois Democrat has denied having had sex with Heard, now 19, saying they en­gaged only in fantasy sex talk on the phone. 
Defense attorney Ed Genson said Reynolds was targeted by a lying, "bizarre" teen-ager who tried to use telephone sex­ual fantasies to extort money from the two-term lawmaker. 
His voice rising, Genson shook his fists and shouted to the jury that Heard "lied in this courtroom in front of your very eyes!" 
"A whole life is being taken down by this girl, a girl who cannot be believed, who they cannot believe!" Genson shout­ed. 
Genson earlier noted that Heard had at one time recanted her story of having sex with Reynolds. She agreed to testify after being jailed for 11 days. 
Genson also urged jurors not to accept at face value tape recordings of phone calls be­tween Reynolds and Heard. The recordings were made with police help after Heard went to authorities. 
"When is she telling the truth? When is she telling you the same malarkey she told Mel Reynolds on those tapes?" Genson said. "How are you to believe one word that woman says beyond a reasonable doubt?" 
He told jurors he wasn't there to defend Reynolds' sins, ethics, hormones or "middle-age cra­zies." 
Reynolds is charged with sex­ual abuse, sexual assault, child pornography and obstruction. for allegedly trying to get the girl to recant. 
Conviction on the most seri­ous charge, sexual assault, car­ries a mandatory sentence of at least four years in prison. 
"Much like a hunter stalks his prey, Mel Reynolds was driving his Cadillac down the street" when he met Heard, Hyland told the jury. 
The prosecutor reminded ju­rors that in one of the conversations, Reynolds spoke with Heard about how he "used to" have sexual relations with her. 
"He can't escape his own words," Hyland said. "They may be stupid and immoral, but under our law they are crimi­nal." 

Off the Bench wit~rYiJlUte,..Vince and the Bear 
~~~~·~~~;~~..,-~,.;~ ' 

Nama 
·.1 Addreu :.1
:1 Clty/Stai11Zip ~1 # of tickets x $50 each = $ total. Performance: 0 Friday, Sept S 0 Saturday, Sept. 9 ·.:L:,~~~-~..~f!"",..~:t"':·~.~."!:T.~.~!':"v.,~:'e.~~.t:?,"::':"""'~·~~~~~m~.met~~~;T.f~n:"Jt.~r::t;-h~~·:l!.~m~fi 
NO Biologist to direct Center 
Special to The Observer 
Charles Kulpa, Jr., professor 
of biological sciences and asso­
ciate dean of the College of Sci­
ence at the University of Notre 
Dame, has been named direc­
tor of the University's Center 
for Bioengineering and Pollu­
tion Control, according to 
Timothy O'Meara, provost. 
A microbiologist who joined 
the Notre Dame faculty in 
1972, Kulpa is a longtime 
leader in bioengineering 
research and holds six patents 
for microorganisms and 
processes developed in his lab­
oratory. 
His laboratory's research 
centers on understanding how 
microorganisms behave when 
they are used as mixed cul­
tures to treat hazardous and 
nonhazardous wastes in liq­
uids and soils. 
Kulpa's four current research areas include (1) developing methods to detoxify TNT -contaminated soils using microorganisms, (2) using mol­ecular techniques to study the nitrification process in mixed cultures, (3) studying how petroleum fuels and additives to gasoline degrade by biologi­cal means, and (4) using microorganisms to remove organic sulfur from petroleum fuels. 
His research is funded by grants totaling nearly $1.3 mil­lion from Amoco Oil Co., Argonne National Laboratory, Chevron Research Corp., and Energy BioSystems Corp. 
Kulpa has directed 11 doc­toral dissertations and two master's theses, has served as a consultant to companies and government agencies through­out the country, and has been active in a number of profes­sional organizations. 

He is a director of the Southern Great Lakes Region of the Society of Industrial Microbiology and has served as ps:esident and vice president of the Indiana branch of the American Society for Mi­crobiology. 
...----------------~ ----­
page 6 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, August 22, 1995 
r r f 
~ 
~ 
t 
I 
l 
8/18 8/19 8/21 8/22 8/23 8/24 8/25 
Friday-Saturday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 

_• 9am-6pm • 9am-6pm • 9am-6pm • 9am-6pm • 9am-6pm • 9am-6pm • 9am-6pm 
~uesday, August 22, 1995 
Island residents evacuate after volcano explosions 
Associated Press Research Center in Trinidad, 
said the Soufriere Hills volcano PLYMOUTH. Montserrat in southeast Montserrat had 
The government ordered the registered two eruptions on evacuation of Plymouth, the Saturday and one on Sunday.capital, and more than half of Monday's was the biggest since this Caribbean island's resi­the long-dormant Soufriere dents Monday after the biggest burst to life July 18. volcanic eruption in a month of The eruptions have spewed tremors. ash and noxious gases but not 
Frank Savage, governor of lava, Lynch said. this British colony, ordered the Monday's evacuation order evacuation of residents in the covered Plymouth, the capital south, southwest and east in a of about 3,000 people, a sweeplate-afternoon radio broadcast. of villages south to Old Fort The order affected about 5,000 Point, central villages along the people. road to Montserrat's only air­
Seismologist Lloyd Lynch, port and the southeast coast. from the Caribbean Seismic The airport remained open. 
Bosnia demands UN airstrikes 
By LIAM McDOWALL  U.N. Security Council, pub­ with Serbia and Croatia last  
Associated Press  lished today by Sarajevo's main  week were successful.  
newspaper, Oslobodjenje.  But on Sunday there were in­ 
SARAJEVO  U.N. officials said the attack  dications that the mission had  
The Bosnian government  was not enough to warrant  fared less well than previously  
protested to the United Nations  airstrikes.  believed during talks with Pres­ 
for failing to order airstrikes  "One shell, no matter how  ident Slobodan Milosevic of  
when Serb shells slammed into  lethal, does not constitute an  Serbia, the region's main  
the center of the Gorazde "safe  attack against a U.N. 'safe area'  power broker.  
area," killing three girls.  which would merit a response  Sacirbey said Milosevic refus­ 
Last month, after Bosnian  from NATO," U.N. spokesman  ing to commit to a U.S. demand  
Serbs overran two U.N.-pro­ Alexander Ivanko said in Sara­ that Bosnia, Serbia and Croatia  
tected zones, NATO vowed to  jevo.  recognize one another.  
make a "substantial and deci­ A Western diplomat, who  "One of the essential ele­ 
sive response" to any Serb at­ spoke on condition of anonymi­ ments of the American initia­ 
tack or threat against Gorazde.  ty, said no airstrikes were  tive was three-part mutual  
NATO ambassadors approved  ordered in part because the  recognition," Sacirbey said. "I  
the contingency plans for allied  United Nations did not want to  think it's safe to say that we  
bombing on July 26.  endanger peacekeepers trying  have not reached that commit­ 
But when a shell killed the  to withdraw from Gorazde.  ment from President  
girls in the Muslim enclave in  Rebel Serbs have refused to  Milosevic."  
eastern Bosnia on Sunday,  let 90 Ukrainian peacekeepers  A Western diplomat, who  
NATO did not retaliate.  withdraw from the enclave, and  spoke on condition of anonymi­ 
"I wonder when the United  a convoy carrying their equip­ ty, confirmed that Milosevic  
Nations will stop closing its  ment has been stalled at the  had refused to recognize  
eyes, and ask what must hap­ enclave's border for four days.  Croatia, presumably because .  
pen before the United Nations  The United Nations ordered  the political climate in Serbia  
and NATO will respond ade­ the Ukrainians to pull out for  has hardened since the  
quately to this terrorism,"  fear they might be taken  Croatian army routed its rebel  
Foreign Minister Muhamed  hostage. The 180 British peace­ Serb minority earlier this  
Sacirbey wrote in a letter to the  keepers in Gorazde were to  month, sending more than  
begin withdrawing in two  150,000 refugees into Serbia.  
weeks.  The Serbian leader also was  

 The troubles came amid in­ upset because an earlier plan  
creasing skepticism about a  would have lifted U.N. econom­ 
South Bend,s New  U.S. peace plan that last week  ic sanctions on Yugoslavia in  
had raised hopes of an immi­ exchange for recognizing 
Dai ueen  nent end to the war. Those  Bosnia, while the new plan  
hopes were dashed over the  would require him to recognize  
weekend, after three of the U.S.  both Bosnia and Croatia, the  
diplomats negotiating the plan  diplomat said.  
were killed in a crash outside  The American team headed  
Sarajevo.  back to Washington today with  
Assistant Secretary of State  the bodies of their colleagues.  
Richard Holbrooke, who leads  "We will reconstitute the  
the team, had indicated talks  team," Holbrooke said.  





brazier® 

St. Rd. 23 at Ironwood Near Coach's 
TRY THE NEW TREATZZA PIZZA! 
r-l~~oo-,rR1i~~~lr-~9-¢-, 
!2 oz. l $1 2~! DoubleBlizzard •through sun. a.;J.9s• B 
I Your Choice: I urger

0r I Peanut Buster Parfait I 1 Banana Split 1 Strawberry Shortcake I
I

BreeZe Royal Fudge n' Cake Chese Additional 2..·.. 
1Hot Fudge Brownie Delightl Nutty Double Fudge 

• I I
Nol void wilh any olher offer. Nol valid wilh any olher offer. Not valid wilh any olher offer. 
Umll 2. Good ot St /!.d. 23 Only. Umll 2. Good ot St Rd. 23 Only. Umll 2. Good ot Sl Rd. 23 Only.
.J L .J L .J 


~------­
~ 
Tuesday, August 22, 1995 pageS The Observer • NEWS 

brary as its book capacity is in­Hurley Halls, due to the 
creased, necessitated the need renovation of the Architecture for Planner's conversion. Building. continued from page 1 The University will also real­continued from page 1 Overall, the new building continued from page 1 ize a substan'tial savings in con­contains nineteen classrooms. 
Tower College Card 
The new Notre Dame Visasdorms that will be constructed struction costs if it finishes all are is named for a major donor Two of them seat 80 people. six 

on West Quad. next to Keough of West Quad at the same to the facility's construction. seat 60 people, three seat 50, do not have an annual fee. For and O'Neill Halls which will time. "It became increasingly The building's first floor four seat 30, two seat 20, and the first six months, the annual percentage rate is 5.9 percent.
house the. :residents of Grace clear that it would be desirable houses most of the College's the auditorium holds 350. Hall. The new halls, not named to bring this new residential administration offices and some Other features of the new fa­
Thereafter. the APR will be in the letter, will be ready for quad to completion at about classrooms. The second floor is cility include a spiral stairwell, variable, calculated as the occupation by the Fall 1997 the same time." O'Hara noted. comprised of the Dean's office, located at the center of the prime rate plus 6.9. The prime semester. Flanner will be con­O'Hara also said that the Of­MBA program administration building, and an enclosed rate is currently 8. 75 percent. 
This partnership is not First

verted into academic office fice of Student Affairs hoped offices. and some faculty courtyard at the south end, 
space, the letter said. the elimination of the campus offices. The third floor contains where the schooner that now USA's first with a university. The announcement comes 16 high rises would result in a mostly faculty offices, while the resides over the Hurley Busi­The bank handles similar ar­basement houses some class­ness soon rangements with other schools,
months to the day after it was "better overall configuration of Building will be revealed that Planner's neigh­male residence halls on cam­rooms, the electronic library. moved. including Duke and bor, Grace Hall would be con­pus." and a computer cluster with 35 Assistant Dean Gaglio wishes Northwestern. verted into office space. "Although we realize that the stations. to extend his appreciation for For more information of the 
Notre Dame Visa card, call the"For reasons that we believe physical dislocation of changing All business faculty are now the efforts put forth by organi­Notre Dame Alumni Association will enhance both the academic buildings and quads will be stationed in the in the new zations and individuals in the at (219) 631-6000. 

mission of the University and somewhat disruptive, we hope building, while the School of production of the new facility. the quality of student life, the that you will view these Architecture is currently "We can never say 'thank The South Bend Tribune con­Officers of the University have changes as an opportunity to housed in Hayes-Healey and you' enough."-tributed to this report. decided to build two additional move with your friends into residence halls adjacent to newer facilities and continue Keough and O'Neill Halls," the kind of community interac­
w~­
O'Hara wrote. tion that characterizes the best O'Hara said a "growing need" of the residential experience at 
direct from COUNTY GALWAY IRELAND
for academic office space, espe­Notre Dame," wrote O'Hara. cially within the Hesburgh Li-will provide 
Via a Colorful show ofA Traditional Irish Musi~ Ceili Dance, Folk Singing and 
TASTE 
Storytelling
OF IRELAND... 

Sep_tember 14th -7:30 p.m.
Nctu DWHW J~ ~ 
Ti~:kala: $18.50 & $15.00 Ti~:kala now an aala al .JayiCa Canlar Box Olli~:a and lhru aU Tickalnuullar Oudala. To ICharga by phana: 219-272-7979 
•• 0 ••
..ru 

4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE 
FoR DELIVERY 


r----------,
-$5 DEAL
I I I 
Any Large 14" Pizza Only $5 Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4
I I I I
The Best Pizza at the Best Price 
Now, That's a Deal! Call1-6902 
-1 I , 
Call1-6902
I I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 8f3I/95 COUPON EXPIRES 8/31/95 
__.
Lr----------1-----------,
$10 DEAL DOUBLE DEAL
I I I I 
I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas You get 2 Large 14" 1 item and a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10 I I Pizzas for Only $9 I Call1-6902 Call1-6902
I I I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 8/31/95 COUPON EXPIRES 8/31/95
.J .J
L L 
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 


Tuesday, August 22, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

It's served every Thursday in the dining hall. And the scary thing is, people actually eat it. Maybe they don't see those white chunks floating in the gray beef. Or maybe they're just really hungry. Whatever their reason, you want no part of it. You know what great meat loaf is all about. You had the best for 18 years. So you call mom to let her know she's the Queen of Meat Loaf. It's a special moment between mother and son. 
Tuesday, August 22, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS
page 10 
Racing 
continued from page 1 
"We practiced with the car at Kalamazoo Speedway and at Putnam Park Speedway [out­side Indianapolis] and nowhere did that problem ever occur again." 
Regardless, the automatic shutdown of the power was enough to keep the car off the track at Cleveland and only added to a summer of woe that saw the drive shaft break sev­eral times. 
"We've had a lot of problems 
the last couple months," Mas­
cadri said, "but in Indianapolis, 
the shaft didn't break. All the 
problems from Cleveland were 
fixed." 
However, one nagging prob­
lem remains that prevented the 
team from winning at Indi­
anapolis, a race that Finnerty felt the team could've won. 
"A problem in the gearbox reduced our level of straight­line speed," he said. "The teams that finished ahead of us [Indiana University-Purdue University-Indianapolis, Ohio State, and Wright State] just pulled away from us on the straightaways. There was no way we could make up the ground." 
At Indianapolis Raceway 
Park, the Irish completed the 
15-lap, nine-and-one-half-mile 
course in about seven-and-one 
half minutes, reaching speeds 
of about 80 mph. 
Until the race season 
resumes in March, the team 
will continue to work to perfect 
the car. 
"It will be a very productive 
winter," Finnerty said. "We're 
going to try to iron out the 
gearbox problem." 
37 die after fire plan goes awry 
death or suffocated. One was Korean Presbyterian Church inBy PAUL ALEXANDER only 13. Sixteen others were Yongin, 35 miles south of Seoul. 
Associated Press 
Police questioned security
injured. 
The school had a history of guards on why it took so long to SEOUL, South Korea 

unlock the doors, after fire­Young women desperate to fighters complained they couldescape from a church-run re­not get in before the victimsform school apparently set fires suffocated.
in their rooms Monday, hoping Lee Yun-kun, the chief police to flee when guards unlocked investigator, said the fires werethe dormitory doors. 
planned by a group wanting toThe early morning fires swept escape the center where courtsout of control. however, and 37 sent them for 10 months of vo­women died before the doors cational training as hairstylistswere opened to let firemen in. 
or tailors.
Many of the dead were Diaries found in the wreckage 
packed into restrooms, and 
of the Kyonggi Women's news reports said bloodstains Technical School told a bleak
and fingernail scratches on the barred windows showed their escape attempts and was tale. 
known for strict discipline of One girl wrote of beatings,
frantic efforts to escape the 
the women, most of them run­and said she wanted to escape
flames. The victims -all but three in aways caught working in broth­or die. Another wrote of ex­
els and bars. It was run by the haustion and fear. 
their teens -either burned to 
GEAR UP FOR 

IN THE DORM 

4999 
Voice-activated micro answerer 
Don't miss important calls when you're not in your room. Remote operation. 
#43·752MB 
2499 
Basic trim phone saves space 
Lighted keypad for dialing in the dark_ Three colors. White, 1143-SSSMB. Almond,
1143-585MB. Gray, I/43-587MB 
7!~ 
Shielded die-cast 2-way A/V speaker 
Great for use near PC or TV. 4" woofer and 1" soft-dome tweeter. Black, 1140-2048MB. 
White, I/40-2059MB 
3999 
Microcassette recorder 
Great for recording class notes. Easy one-hand operation. Two speeds. 1114-1159MB 
V ae ,
IIadlA lh I(
"f 
~E 
5999 
Upright cordless phone won't tie you down 
CCT circuitry provides excellent clarity and range. Handy base­to-handset paging. 1143-1oosMB 
3499 
AM/FM cassette music system withE-Bass 
Compact speakers let you share the music, headphones let you listen privately. 1114-1209MB 

1999 
Indoor TV/FM antenna improves reception 
Fine-tuning control for clearer picture and sound. I/15-1808MB 
.3999 

Scientific calculator Advanced thesaurus 
GI t*r~J xpress®l 
We can wra:P a gift, ad~ a card and ship it anywhere tn the US vta FedEx® delivery 




llad1e lhaell 
service. For a store near you or to order, call 
You've got questions. We've got answers.sM
1-800-THE-SHACK'" 
............................, ••a.. ............,........,.... .. __~
..-------"'*"·--­
Survival check list 
o 
Phone cords and accessories 

o 
Alarm clock or clock radio 

o 
TV, VCR and video accessories 

o 
Security devices 

o 
Computer and accessories 

o 
Batteries 

o 
Stereo equipment, speakers and audio accessories 

o 
Heavy-duty flashlight 

o 
Smoke alarm 

o 
Part-time job (see the manager of your local Radio Shack store) 



.' 
AC accessories to power your dorm 
4-outlet adapter. 2-prong. #51-2521MB ......................... 2.99 6-outlet surge protector in metal housing. n51-2131M .... 22.99 6-outlet adapter. For 3-prong outlets. n51-2522MB ............ 3.99 6-outlet power strip. Master on/off switch. n51-21soMB ....... 8.99 Single outlet spike protector. H51-2791MB ...................... 6.99 6-ft. 3-0UtJet ext. COrd. White. #51-2744MB. Brown, #61·2745MB ....... 1.99 9-ft. 3-outlet ext. cord. White. #51-2746MB. Brown, #51-2747MB ....... 2.39 15-ft. 3-outlet extension cord. #51-2748MB ..................... 3.49 
Prices apply at participating Radio Shack stores and dealers .. Items not available at aparticipating store 
can be spec1al-ordered (subJecl to ava1lab1l1ty) at lhe advertised price. Apart1c1patmg store will offer a 
comparable value 1f the produc11s sold out. _Independent A~d1o Shack dealers and franchisees may nol 
be part1c1patmg mthiS ad or stock or spwal~order every 1tem advertised. Copies ol applicable war­
ranties are available upon request at stores for 1nspect1on before sale, or by writing Customer Relations 
1400 One Tandy Center. Fort Worth TX 76102. FedEx lrademarks used by permission, · 
Stores up to 12 frequently used Small enough to carry in your formulas and runs them with backpack or purse. #53-2110MB just a few keystrokes. #GS-SOSMB Franklin is aregistered trademark of Franklin
r---------------------------~E=Iec~tr~on~ic~Pu~bl~ish~in~g,~ln~c.___________JL_____________~ 
THE REnATR SHOP® 
r~ 
llad18111aeli 
Out of whack? Out of warranty? We fix 
most major brands of out-of-warranty 
electronics. For a store near you, call 
1-800-THE-SHACKsM 

Tuesday, August 22, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Georgia commuter crash kills two, injures 27 
By DAN SEWELL 
Associated Press 
CARROLLTON, Ga. 
A commuter plane flying from Georgia to Mississippi crashed in a hay field and cracked open Monday, killing two people and injuring 27, many of whom fled the wreckage with their clothes on fire. 
"I thought I was going to die and I was just hoping it was go­ing to end real quick," a pas­senger, Chuck Pfisterer, told 
BACK TO SCHOOL SAVINGS AT 


Lechters ® 
HOUSEVVA.RES 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
PRESENT THIS AD BETWEEN AUGUST 19TH AND SEPTEMBER 12TH AND RECEIVE 

20% OFF' 
PURCHASES OF $20 OR MORE. 
LECHTERS 
YOUR BACK TO SCHOOL HEADQUARTERS! 271-0723 

-
AEROBICS SCHEDULE FALL, 1995 
J~lYCE CErsiER CLASSES 
4:00-5:00  STEP Gym 1  
2  4:10-5:10  Hi Intensity Gym2  
3  5:20-6:20  STEP Gym 1  
4  5:20-6:20  Body Toning Gym 2  
5  4:15-5:15  STEP Gym 1  
6  4:15-5:15  Hi Intensity Gym2  
7  5:30-6:30  Combo Gym 1  
8  5:30-6:30  Lo Impact Gym2  
RQCKrsE CLASSES  
9  12:15-12:45  Beg. STEP 219  
10  4:00-5:00  STEP 301  
11  5:20-6:20  STEP 301  
12  9:00-10:00  Combo 301  
13*  12:15-12:45  STEP/Lo 219  
14  4:15-5:15  STEP 301  
15  5:30-6:30  STEP 301  
16  9:00-10:00  STEP 301  
17  5:30-6:30  STEP 301  
18  4:00-4:30  Interval Aer. 301  
19  4:40-5:10  Adv. Abs 301  
20  5:20-6:20  STEP 301  
RQLFS CLASSES  
21  12:15-12:45  Aquacise  
22  6:45-7:45  Aquacise  

WORK IN your WORKOUT with the Fall, 1995 Challenge U aerobics schedule. 
Registration begins August 22, 7:30am in the hallway south of the RecSports office. 
Classes begin August 28. All classes are coed. *Class is dependent on PE schedule. 
Please call RecSports at 631-6100 with any questions. 
_____... -...._-·-·-­
.....-. ­
............ -.... ·--­
Atlanta television station WSB. 
"And the next thing I knew. after sustaining bumps and bruises, I opened my eyes and saw that, hey, I'm alive, and the plane is in pieces and I'm hang­ing by my seat belt." 
The Atlantic Southeast Air­lines turboprop went down around midday about five miles from Carrollton, breaking into three large pieces as it plowed across the green field. 
The pilot had radioed that he was having engine problems, and may have been trying to 
land at West Georgia Regional Airport, six to eight miles from the crash site, said Christy Williams, a Federal Aviation Administration spokeswoman. 
But a passenger, Air Force Maj. Chuck LeMay, told WSB that, after passengers heard a "loud bang," they were told the plane would try to return to At­lan,ta for an emergency landing. 
Polona Jeter, who lives near­by, said she saw the front of the plane "rolling and tumbling and on fire" as the aircraft came apart. 
"I could see about 10 people getting out," she said. "Some were burning. They were run­ning. People were trying to get them down and get it out." 
One injured man arrived on her front porch and used the 

FINE QUALITY SPORTSWEAR GOLF EQUIPMENT TEE TIMES 631-6425 
MJW $23 MJW $18 MJW $23 MJW $18 Tffh $23 Tffh $18 Tffh $18 Tffh $18 
M/W/F $23 MJW!F $35 MJW $23 MJW $18 Tffh $20 Tffh $23 Tffh $23 Tffh $23 
F $12 
Su $12 Su $12 Su $12 
M/W/F $15 Tffh $15 
ne to leave a message his wife in Maine. 
"His clothes were burned off. His undershorts were all that was left," she said. "The skin just rolled off his body." 
Twenty-six of the injured were hospitalized, at least one 
The Observer VIEWPOINT 
'Wants YOU on staff! 
Copy Editor and Assistant Viewpoint Editor positions available No experience necessary! Call the Viewpoint desk at (1-4541) to apply. 

in critical condition. 
The plane left a scarred path in the field indicating it barely cleared trees before hitting the ground. 
"We were all lucky to get out of that," LeMay said. "There were some people who came out of the aircraft that were sit­ting behind where I was at. As they came out, they were on fire. People were telling them to roll, you know, on the ground." 
The two-engine Brazilian­made Embraer 120 was about 15 minutes and 50 miles into a flight from Atlanta to Gulfport, Miss., 362 miles away. It had 26 passengers and three crew members. The weather was cloudy and rainy. 
The cause of the crash was under investigation. In Wash­ington, the National Trans­portation Safety Board assem­bled a team to investigate.It was the third fatal commuter plane crash in 10 months. 
Officials at Atlanta-based At­lantic Southeast could not im­mediately be reached for com­ment; calls to their office were met with a busy signal. 
Paul Butler, who lives about 75 yards from the crash site, said he rushed out of his house when he heard two loud booms and saw the plane skidding to a stop. 
"People were already out, some on fire, going in every di­rection," Butler said. 
He watched as others emerged through a gaping hole in the aircraft. Everyone he saw was burned, Butler said, some had no clothes on. 
The pilot or copilot was trapped in the cockpit, and Butler said firefighters used axes from his barn to rescue him. 
page 12 The Observer • NEWS Tueday, August 22, 1995 
ABC settles libel suits with tobacco industry 
By KAREN HAYWOOD 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Va. 
ABC News settled libel law­suits totaling more than $10 billion Monday by apologizing to Philip Morris and R.J. Reynolds for reporting the com-
Microsoft agreement finally signed 
By EVAN RAMSTAD Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A federal judge signed a 13­month-old antitrust settlement between Microsoft Corp. and the Justice Department on Monday, ending judicial review made unusually long by an­other judge's rejection of the agreement. 
U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's order cov­ered a deal under which the software company halted some incentives to computer makers that prosecutors said reduced competition. 
The first judge to review the settlement rejected it, but was overturned by an appeals court that sent the matter to Jackson. 
Under the deal. Microsoft agreed to stop giving personal computer manufacturers a dis­count if they paid the company a royalty for each PC sold, even those that didn't have Mi­crosoft's DOS or Windows soft­ware. The practice gave PC makers little incentive to install competing programs since they would have had to pay a royalty to both the com­petitor and Microsoft. 
"It's great to see it finally come to a close because there were a lot of years there where we were producing a lot of documents," Microsoft chair­man Bill Gates said on CNN's "Larry King Live" Monday night. 
"What it comes down to is there's nothing significant that we needed to change and that just confirms the way we viewed it all along," Gates said. 
Jackson's approval of the settlement does not free Microsoft from scrutiny, how­ever. A Justice Department attorney, Donald Russell, told Jackson that the government is "investigating certain Microsoft practices to deter­mine whether those practices are in compliance" with the July 1994 bargain. 
After the hearing, Microsoft's chief counsel suggested that the government would find nothing wrong. 

panies "spiked" their cigarettes should not have reported that ABC but for which we accept League preseason game Mon­with nicotine. Philip Morris and Reynolds add responsibility and which re­day night, and again during 
ABC's "Day One" news­significant amounts of nicotine quires correction," she said, prime-time hours Thursday ­magazine reported in February from outside sources," Diane quoting most of a statement is­the night "Day One" airs. and March 1994 that tobacco Sawyer, one of the anchors of sued by ABC. "We apologize to companies including Philip "Day .One," said midway into our audience, Philip Morris and Sawyer's reporting on the set­Morris Cos. and R.J. Reynolds Monday night's broadcast of Reynolds." tlement on Monday's news Tobacco Co. added nicotine to "World News Tonight." The statement was to be read broadcast was not part of the cigarettes to addict smokers. "That was a mistake that was in its entirety during the tele­settlement, said ABC spokes­
"ABC News agrees that we not deliberate on the part of cast of a National Football woman Patricia Matson. 
COUPON REDEEMABLE ONLY AT KMART COUPON REDEEMABLE ONLY AT KMART 
Dorm Starter Discount Coupon 
Save 10% $3.00 Off 
on your next purchase Regular Price 
Present this coupon with your college 10 card or 
college registration papers for a one-time 10% discount On An'" Mus1·c CD or 
on all of your school, donnitory or clothing needs. J 
Kmart Register Operator: The % Off key must be used prior to scanning any eligible item. 
Cassette $10.00 or Higher.
1Discount Is good on regular-prind general men:handlse only, Excludes tobacco, alcoholic beverages, groceries, : 1 I prescriptions. deli and prepared foods, loUery Ucuts, federal, stale and locallinnses, vending, vehicle I I lnspecUoas, warranty contracts, commemorative colas, and nrvln from connssionaires. : Coupon Valid 8/22195 through 9/2195 I 
1
I Coupon Valid 8122195 through 9/2195 Coupon Valid at: 2707 s. 11th. Niles, Ml • 4640 s. Michigan St.-South Bend, IN I : Coupon Valid at: 2707 S. 11th. Niles, Ml • 4640 S. Michigan St .• South Bend, IN : 420 W. McKinley • MIShawaka, IN • 4850 W. Western Ave. • South Bend, IN : 420 W. McKinley • Mishawaka, IN • 4850 W. Western Ave.· South Bend, IN 
1 
~~ fl•114l•lt'filj•1$¥1&t=IIJ•h21Zitlffl1&t;i-fl•1Qjl•UC:l$•1jffi1&t=IIJ•h21Zif1311&t;iilll 
$5.00 Off 25¢ Off 
Regular Price On Any Regular Price Northwest Territory Boots On Any or Hikers Mens or Ladies Little Debbie Product 
Coupon Valid B/22195 through 912195Coupon Valid B/22195 through 9/2195 
Coupon Valid at: 2707 S. 11th • Niles, Ml • 4640 S. Michigan St. • South Bend, IN Coupon Valid at: 2707 S. 11th· Niles, Ml • 4640 S. Michigan St.· South Band, IN 420 W. McKinley • Mishawaka, IN • 4850 W. Western Ave. • South Bend, IN420 W. McKinley • Mishawaka, IN • 4850 W. Western Ave. • South Bend, IN 
COUPON REDEEMABLE ONLY AT KMART COUPON REDEEMABLE ONLY AT KMART 
$10.00 Off 50¢ Off 
Regular Price Regular Price On AnyOn Any Student Shampoo or Conditioner Refrigerator or Microwave (in-stock only) 
Coupon Valid 8122195 through 9/2195 Coupon Valid B/22195 through 912195 
Coupon Valid at: 2707 S. 11th • Niles, Ml • 4640 S. Michigan St.· South Bend, IN Coupon Valid at: 2707 S. 11th • Niles, Ml • 4640 S. Michigan St. • South Bend, IN420 W. McKinley • Mishawaka, IN • 4850 W. Western Ave. • South Bend, IN 420 W. McKinley • Mishawaka, IN • 4850 W. Western Ave. • South Bend, IN 
COUPON REDEEMABLE ONLY AT KMART COUPON REDEEMABLE ONLY AT KMART 
$1.00 Off 50¢ Off 
Regular Price Any Size Regular Price Liquid or Powder Laundry On 12 Pack Cans Detergent (in stock only) Pepsi or Mountain Dew 
Coupon Valid B/22195 through 912195 Coupon Valid 8122195 through 912195 
Coupon Valid at 2707 S. 11th • Niles, Ml • 4640 S. Michigan St.· South Bend, IN Coupon Valid at: 2707 S. 11th • Niles, Ml • 4640 S. Michigan St.· South Bend, IN 420 W. McKinley • Mishawaka, IN • 4850 W. Western Ave.· South Bend, IN 420 W. McKinley • Mishawaka, IN • 4850 w. Western Ave.• South Bend, IN 
L----------------------------------~---------------------------------~ 
"Consider the cost of room and board for the next several years. Now, consider $298* per month at North Shore Club" 
Agreat investmentfor students, parents and alumni. 

• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $49,900 

• 
Just minutes from Notre Dame 


Furnished models on display
• Vacation home for game weekends 
Thursday through Monday 1-5 P.M. 
• 
No exterior maintenance or hy appointment 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings 


for more information 
Angela at the 51. joseph River in South Bend •Mondllypa)•nen~of P.andl. '-'doo apun:h:N' prill'of$•9.'XJCl•itll 10% dmm and aJ().)l"'f7%A.RM Call (219) 232-2002 
Tuesday, August 22, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Crowd watches as woman, forced to strip, dies 
By JENNIFER LOVEN 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 
As dozens of onlookers cheered, three men pulled a woman from her car, ripping otT her clothes, then chased her until she either jumped or was forced otT a bridge to her death. 
None of the 40 or so passers­by tried to help Deletha Word during the confrontation that began with two minor traffic accidents early Saturday on the Belle Isle bridge, said police Sgt. John Morel. 
A man who arrived late tried to rescue her from the Detroit River but couldn't reach her. The 33-year-old woman's body, missing a leg, was found sev­eral miles downstream later that morning. 
"My baby was down there all by herself. I know she was scared to death," the woman's mother, Dortha Word, said as she cried Monday. "How could they be so cruel?" 
Trouble started around 3 a.m., Morel said, when Word was involved in two minor traf­fic accidents on Belle Island. One car with three men inside chased her onto the bridge con­necting the island to the city and rammed her car, forcing her to stop. 
One of the men smashed her car with a crowbar and pulled her from the car, ripping off some of her clothes, Cmdr. Gerald Stewart said. The man pushed her against the car and beat her, he said. 
One of the men weighed near­ly 300 pounds, according to a police source quoted in The Detroit News. Word, who was 4-foot-11, weighed 115 pounds, her mother said. 
When Word tried to run away, police said the man with the crowbar chased her. What happened after that is unclear." 
Police are not saying whether Word jumped or was forced otT the bridge, but Mrs. Word said she is sure her daughter was forced into the Detroit River. 
"They . . . made her leap over that bridge and beat her hands. She was holding onto the bridge, and beat her hands away from that banister," she said, citing an account she said police gave her. 

Word's cousin Carol Neely said Word would have never jumped because she did not know how to swim. 
Lawrence Walker, 21, was in the bumper-to-bumper traffic that had formed on the bridge when he noticed a crowd run­ning to the edge. 
He got out of his car and fol­lowed, jumping into the river after her. 
NASA may hand over operations 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
NASA expects to hand over operations of its space shuttles to a single business within a few years in an attempt to re­duce costs and increase re­sponsibility. 
"We have a safe program. We have checks and bal­ances," NASA's space flight chief Wayne Littles told indus­try officials Monday. 
"But we don't have as much focus, the accountability, as we would like to have, and we're going to achieve that as we move into this restructuring." 
NASA's four shuttles will be even safer once a single con­tractor takes over the $3 bil­lion-a-year program and the space agency focuses more on research and development, Littles said. 
Littles insisted it will be a "wide-open" competition even though shuttle-contracting gi­ants Lockheed Martin and Rockwell International already have joined forces to compete for the prime job. Their newly formed venture is called United Space Alliance. 
NASA expects to choose a single contractor within a year or so. 
All this is inevitable because of the sweeping cutbacks at the space agency over the past few years, particularly in the shuttle program, officials said. A panel of space and aviation experts recommended in March that NASA consolidate shuttle operations under a sin­gle business. 
"We've done all we can rea­sonably do within the current set of requirements and struc­ture to gain efficiencies, and now it's time to take that next step," Littles said. 
Littles declined to say how much money would be saved, and jobs lost, by compressing NASA's sprawling shuttle pro­gram from the current 85 con­tracts involving 56 companies into a single contract involving one prime organization. 
The shuttle program cur­rently employs 22,500 people nationwide: 19,700 contractor employees and 2,800 civil ser­vice employees. 
Because of the government's reduced duties, only about half of those 2,800 civil service workers probably would be needed by the year 2000, said shuttle director Bryan O'Con­nor. 
Littles would not specify when a shuttle might fly under the auspices of a single prime contractor, except to say it would occur sometime within three or so years. He promised there would be no disruption of the flight schedule. 
----~--· 


VIEWPOINT 
page 14 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager .......................Ryan Malayter Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van J!hoto Editor , .. , ... ~ .......................... Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson ConnoUer ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither instirution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Edi[Qr, Accent Edi[Qr, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports . 631-4543 SystemsI Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Inforrna lion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Evolution: 
Questioning the teaching 
of Darwin at Notre Dame 

Dear Editor: 
A
s we begin another academic _ year, I think it is important, in light of our educational mission, to ask ourselves, "are we meeting the goal of providing an arena of and for academic excellence?" Given this mission, it is imperative that we scrutinize our efforts and praise or criticize as appro­priate. We can all agree that we must do more than simply study for tests and uncritically accept our course materials as dogma. 
Higher education, for over 100 years now, has given Darwinism a foothold, if not the driver's seat outright. Let us take a look, as we begin a new semes­ter, at Notre Dame's treatment of this pervasive subject. According to Humankind Emerging (sixth edition) by Bernard Campbell, the current text for Anthropology 329: "old ideas die hard; the belief in the special creation by God of the entire earth, its animals and plants, at the beginning of time, is still powerfully held by many people. There are men and women in the United States today who believe that the earth is flat" (p. 7, 8). 
. It is easier to lampoon than to cogent­ly refute and Campbell has chosen the lower road. There are no scholars in even the most Biblical perspicuous form of creationism (MBPFC, those who believe in a literal creation week etc ... ) who believe in a flat earth. Campbell is simply using a pejorative here instead of giving a convincing argument to refute his ideological opponents. 
Having already substituted ridicule for argumentation, it would be doubly poor for Campbell to fail to distinguish, in some essential manner, evolutionism from creationism while arbitrarily exempting evolutionism from this same "flat earth" criticism. 
T
his failure of distinction would leave the reader to suspect that the criticism is arbitrarily leveled against one view and not the other. Unfortunately, Campbell does commit this very error. 
Concerning the mechanism for the origin of the animal kingdom, Campbell does not properly distinguish the expla­nation of the evolutionary model from that of the creation model. Consider Campbell's definition of evolution: "cumulative changes in the average characteristics of populations that occur over many generations (see also natural selection)" (p. 533); and natur­al selection: "principal mechanism of evolutionary change, by which the indi­viduals best adapted to the environ­ment contribute more offspring to suc­ceeding generations than others do. As more of such individuals' characteris­tics are incorporated into the gene pool, the characteristics of the population evolve" (p. 537). 
Even believers of MBPFC would agree that CampbeH's definition of evolution is occurring. These creationists claim that the richness of divinely created genotype permits/facilitates the average characteristics (phenotype) of popula­tions to change in response to their environment (e.g. The Long War Against God by Henry Morris, p. 158). In fact, MBPFC creationists have, long before Darwin's time, held that natural selection was the operative mechanism in taking the biota of Noah's ark to today's more diverse and plentiful manifestation. Campbell uses this broad definition of evolution to gain wide acceptance in what he is saying. 
However, in so doing, he says nothing to distinguish his beliefs from the antievolutionist's. Effectively then, Campbell's entire discourse on evolu­tionism does not provide proof of evolu­tion. He merely assumes the truthful­ness of evolutionism and the falsity of MBPFC. To distinguish between these perspectives would require specificity that Campbell does not employ. Hence Campbell's assertions in his central subject matter of evolutionism, are no more robust than his assumption of evolution. Certainly we do not want to reduce academia to be a promoter of "truths" which are simply self-evident to the ideologically inclined or initiated, but void of cogency and specificity. 
U
nlike Campbell, who did not cogently refute the claims of his opponents, I have endeavored to cogently point out illogic coming from Campbell. But I will not stop here. 
I will do some of Campbell's work for him and defme a workable definition of evolution that will distinguish between Campbell's evolutionism and MBPFC: evolution, as defined herein, is a natu­rally occurring process by which an organism gains beneficial genetic infor­mation (which gives rise to qualitatively different phenotypic structures and process) from random mutational events as the organism develops to a state of greater complexity. 
Certainly, this definition of evolution should be amply broad to describe the neo-Darwinian primordial soup... to fish ... to man theory that is dogmatical­ly taught here. ' 
For the sake of brevity, I will not con­tinue to explore the illogical underpin­nings of Anthropology 329 here. Instead, I am asking the Anthropology department to do some mopping up here of one of their required texts by publishing, in the "Viewpoint" section, a proof of merely one instance of evolu­tion consistent with the definition above. 
A
fter 136 years of Darwinism, they certainly should be able to pro­duce one example. Isn't it imperative that as an academic community, we scrutinize our pedagogy? Do you agree that it is wrong to charge big bucks to teach something and then not defend it? 
PIEDER BEELI Graduate Student in Physics Off-campus 
• DOONESBURY 
IN f,IJL,T, I WOUWN'T BeHeRE 
If ITtiB<&N'T 
FOR. YOU!< f(}I?Mif?A8t6 
R&PUTATION/ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
lf7HAT5Vf/HAT Y(}(JMEAN_ IT TAI<l3S! Ytv'RE
YOU KNOW~ 
FOR8/3/N6 ... 
FOR&&U/V­KNOWNANP~­
R&A50NA8te .' 
OCATING~ 5PeCO!f)FOR IT.'
I 
I \ 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Weappreciate the wall 
between church and state, but that doesn't mean we are ready to abandon ethi­cal behavior and morality in order to maintain that wall." 
-William Raspberry 

~---~---------:;-,--r----------~-~ ~----~~----­



:ACC~NT 
page 15 
Pizza Bagel 
Grab a bagel and smother it in spaghetti sauce. Thrown some mozzarella or other cheese of your choosing on it (check the salad bars or delis). Heat it up in the microwave Alternatives: Try this on an English Muffin or Pita. 


Baked Potatoes 
Lots of things you can do here. Use Light Ranch dressing as a substitute for sour cream. Or microwave some broccoli and cheese on top, maybe with some bacon bits. If chili is an option that day, try chili and cheese. Try making your own mashed potatoes. Fun, fun, fun. 

Pasta Primavera 
Microwave every single veggie on the menu that night and toss with your choice of pastas. Ranch dressing may work well as a sauce, but standard spaghetti sauce works fine. Top with parmesan and garlic powder. Make some garlic bread to be really authentic. 


Dining Hall Creations 
"Orange Juli-yo" 
Take two tall dining hall glasses. Fill one cup up with Sprite, about a quarter of the way. Then thrown in some yo-cream, also about a quarter of the way. Fill with Five-Alive or Orange Juice. Shake CAREFULLY, using other glass. 
F 
ood, food everywhere and not a bit to eat. It is the quintessential dining hall dilemma. When the Mississippi Fried Catfish and Shrimp Poppers just don't appeal to you the way they used to, it's time to get creative with all those random extras the dining halls have to offer. Think about it. Everyday, you bypass the salad bar and head straight for the burgers and fries. Doesn't that get monotonous 
Similar to the Pizza Bagel. Get a burger and drown it in sauce. Then add some cheese and zap in in the
after a while? Here's a sam­
microwave Great on a toasted bun. Use the Veggie
pling of ideas for you to try. 
Burgers for a different taste. 
We won't guarantee that you'll love them, but they're a change from the ordinary routine, Maybe you have your own ideas. Let us know. If they're good, we'll see about doing a second edition. 

•

Grilled Chicken Caesar Salad 
If grilled chicken or turkey is on the menu some day, why not cut some up into strips and toss with the regu­lar salad bar offerings? Add garlic powder (not garlic salt!) to Ranch dressing and top with parmesan cheese. Corn can be rather tasty on top. 
p 

Yo-Cream with Everything 
Make shakes. Make floats. Try it with frosted flakes. 
Try it with cheerios. Try it with hot cocoa or coffee. 
Works well with just about everything, proving that Yo­
-
cream is one of the most versatile things the dining hall has to offer. 
..
_ 
Pizza Burger 
.... 
--~----~---~-~---_., 
Tuesday, August 22, 1995 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• BOXING • fOOTBAll. 

King being scorned~ Beginning of end near for SWC 
the Cotton Bowl back in 1949," he said. "I didn'1 
have a ticket. I tried to sneak in. got caught anc 
snuck in again. It was the greatest game I evet By JIM LITKE Whether the brief visit stirred games mark rich history saw. Notre Dame had won over 30 consecutivf Associated Press pangs of conscience, only King game but SMU almost beat them behind Kyl£ 

questioned by critics Legendary players, 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
himself knows. A prison sen­Rote. Then I got really lucky. Somebody left f Associated Press 
program under their seat after the game. I'vfLAS VEGAS tence following his conviction still got that program. It's a treasure."
As omens go, this one ranked on rape charges has limited 
DALLAS 
This is the way SWC football affected anc
just ahead of the guy who Tyson to a total of just 31 
In May 1914 at the Oriental Hotel in Dallas, the infected most Texans. 
looked out at the horizon from rounds this decade, so Iron league of Davey O'Brien, Sammy Baugh, John
the deck of the Titanic and Mike appeared anything but a ''I'll miss it the way it was." said A&M coact 
David Crow, Kyle Rote, Doak Walker, Bob Ully. 
R.C. Slocum. "It was part of my life when I was acalled to the captain: "Clear used-up fighter heading into 
Jim Swink and Earl Campbell was born.
sailing ahead." Saturday night's tune-up kid in Orange, Texas. I knew all the players.
On Dec. 2. 1995, after Texas plays Texas A&M
On the eve of Mike Tyson's against Peter McNeeley. had those Humble Oil stickers you put on thf 
and Rice meets Houston, the storied old confer­
ballyhooed return. aides pulled Already, though, King has windshield of the car. I didn't know anythin~ 
ence will be dead at the age of 81. Cause of death 
fright-haired promoter Don been subjected to second­about pro football then. Everything was colleg£ 
can be listed as acute neglect. 
football.
King aside and whispered that guessing about how much more The charter members were Texas A&M, Texas, "Our heroes were guys like Bob Lilly and Doak
a visitor awaited. King put mileage he can get out of Oklahoma. Oklahoma A&M. Southwestern, 
Walker. I met (former Rice quarterback} Franldown his lunch, a New York­Tyson. And about whether. by Arkansas. and Baylor. Rice joined in 1915· in the 
style, plump kosher red hot -charging the highest ticket Ryan one time and he was the most famous per·
irrst year of official play, sat out two years, and son in my life." 
"You can get 'em in Vegas prices the market would bear returned in 1918. Louisiana State was repre­
now," he had chuckled minutes right out of the gate, he hadn't Watching the demise of the SWC. Slocurr 
sented at the meeting but decided not to join. 
earlier. "Only in America!" -limited the paydays down the added. is "like seeing an old friend with a termi· 
There was a harbinger of things to come even
and put a napkin to his lips. road. nal illness." 
in 1915. Oklahoma and Baylor tied for the title Texas Tech coach Spike Dykes said the SWCThen King turned, and in the After all. those same critics but the Bears later had to forfeit their piece of began to lose national prestige because it lost c:practiced. manner of a reasoned. if this is the biggest the championship. The reason: ineligible player. 
monarch, extended a hand to promotion of all time, where lot of Texas-born players to other schools. 
Dr. W.T. Mather, professor of physics and
shake. Upon finding a small, does Tyson's value go from "Our credibility level went down and we los1 
chairman of the University of Texas athletic
white-haired man waiting at here? our mystique," Dykes said. "The changes wen 
council, was named the first president for the
the other end, he froze. "Critics." King sniffed. "They brought on by money. I can remember wher 
Southwest Intercollegiate Conference. It was his
King's expression suggested won't let me savor this one, money wasn't the reason people played. It i~ 
idea to get the schools together. 
now."
that if his hair hadn't been even for a minute. 
The league finally ran out of steam in the early 
standing on end already, it "It's like when a baby is "It's the close of a great chapter in a grea1
1990s when schools began to scramble for the
would have risen in salute at born; they already want to book," said Dykes, who was born in Lubbock 
best TV packages. Texas. Texas A&M. Texas
that very moment. know, 'When will it walk?' I tell "The people in the state of Texas are losing a lot 
Tech and Baylor decided to join the newly 
Now. we're down to our last dance."
"This validates it!" he bel­them the next one will take formed Big 12 Conference. Rice, Southern
lowed. "Now it IS the biggest care of itself. Just like this one. There were many great games. but none biggm
Methodist and Texas Christian went to the
promotion of all time." ... What did my critics say than the 1969 Texas-Arkansas showdowr 
Western Athletic Conference. And Houston
The object of King's attention about this one? 'That you can't between Darrell Royal's top-ranked Longhorn~
signed on with the new Conference USA. 
was writer Budd Schulberg. do this in August. That nobody and Frank Broyles' No. 2 Razorbacks. 
The SWC rose to prominence in the late '30s
whose best-known book. "The pays attention then. The pay­Both teams were unbeaten. Arkansas jumpec
when TCU won the national title in 1938 and
Harder They Fall," became a per-view will be miserable, to a 14-0 lead but Texas rallied for a 15-14 tri· 
Texas A&M captured the championship the fol­
classic movie starring Rod laughable. The thing will be umph before a national television audience anc 
lowing year. But the real golden years for the
Steiger as a corrupt promoter born dead.' President Nixon. The Longhorns went on to bea1 
league were the 1960s, '70s and early '80s. 
and Humphrey Bogart as the "And what are my critics do­Notre Dame in the Cotton Bowl and win thf 
Texas won The Associated Press title in 1963
reporter who exposes him. ing now?" King asked without national title. 
and 1969, was second in 1981, and finished third "This was the game that had everything," saic These days. Schulberg is re­waiting for an answer. "Eating four times from 1961-72. Arkansas finished sec­
garded in boxing circles as a sour grapes." veteran columnist Blackie Sherrod of the Dallru 
ond in 1964 and third in 1965 and 1977. SMU.
kind of professor emeritus. But "This public-be-damned atti­Morning News. "It came down to a crazy fourth· 
led by the Pony Express backfield of Craig James
his occasional presence serves tude is going to backfire at down call when Darrell went for everything
and Eric Dickerson, was runner-up in 1982. 
as a reminder the story he told some point," said Bert Sugar. Texas hit on a fourth-and-3 pass to the tight enc 
After that. only Texas A&M kept the SWC in the 
years ago is as relevant as ever. publisher of Boxing Illustrated. and finally scored a touchdown. It keyed thf 
Top 10. 
After a few moments huddled "The only way this thing is comeback." 
The death of the SWC will be a hard one for
together. Schulberg shook worth $50 pay-per-view is if Broyles said "it was a very special game. W£ 
generations of fans who grew up listening to
King's hand again."Good luck you invite 49 friends. And don't had the attention of the nation. I still think abow 
Kern Tips on the radio and watching some of the it a lot."
with Mike," he said. bother taking out chairs. The 
best high school football in the country. 
"Thanks," King replied, try­fight -let me rephrase that -"We were lucky to win it," Royal said 
District Judge James Farris of Beaumont hitch­
ing to be gracious. "I hope I the event won't last long "Arkansas outplayed us but we just made the bi~ 
hiked to his first game when he was a kid.
don't need it." enough to take a seat.» plays when it counted. We had a great play and c: 
"I just had to see Notre Dame and SMU play in gutsy call but the rest of it stunk." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Cenr~r.
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge JS 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
SOCCER REFEREES: Students  2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR  Need 2 tickets to Northwestern  ND ALUMNI NEEDS 2 FOOTBALL  
NOTICES  needed to referee soccer games lor south-side elementary school  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272·6306  game.  Bill x0531  SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­AL USE PAY WELL 2773097  JOIN US AND TOGETHER WE SHALL RULE THE GALAXY! THE  
(Grades 5-8), located near  EMPEROR HAS FORSEEN ITI  
Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO  BUSINESSMAN  NEEDS 2or4  Need Northwestern Tix. Will Pay $$  
HYPNOTIST -INDIVIDUALS OR  All games scheduled between 4pm  232·2595  ND SEASON TICKETS ANY OR  or Have Tix to Trade. Call Erin at  The Observer News Department  
SMALL GROUPS-MORNINGS,  and 5:30pm, Monday-Friday, Sept  ALL GAMES.  OHIO.ST.  #4021  wants youl Now accepting applica- 
AFTERNOONS, EVENINGS-STOP  9-0ct 29. $15.00-$20.00 per game.  andWASHINGTON A MUST  lions lor the following paid posi- 
SMOKING, WEIGHT CONTROL, PHOBIAS, ENHANCED LEARN- Must have referee uniform. 291-4200 or 291-8731.  Call  HOUSE FOR RENT 2 Bedrooms for rent in home close  PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN ........ 2771659  PERSONAL  lions-Associate News Editor  
•  lNG, SPORTS PERFRO­MANCE, SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION,  SOCCER COACH: Responsible studenVgrad student needed to  to campus on State Ad 23. Private entrance & garage. Share bath and  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  I need you.  I want you.  Be my  Assistant News Editor Chief Copy Edilor  
MEDICAL AND DENTAL ANAES·  coach JV boys soccer team(s) for  kitchen.  $275.00 + 1/3 utilities.  GAMES.272-6306  Copy Editor. Good grammar and  Copy Editor  
THESIA 234-2095  south-side elementary school  Leave mess.:  273·6126  spelling a big plus.  Gall Krista at 1­ 
(Grades 5-8), located near  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  4540 and tell her why you're the  Submit a brief resume and personal  
Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.  3 BEDROOM HOUSE GOOD  1 NEED STUD TIX APPSI!I  person she's been looking for.  No  statement to Dave Tyler by Friday  
Practice 2:15-3:15 pm, Mon-Thurs.  NEIGHBORHOOD ON BULLA AD  I NEED STUD TIX APPS!II  experience necessary.  August 25th. Questions? call Dave  
WANTED  All soccer (games 8-12) scheduled between 4pm &  5 MINUTE WALK TO NO 2773097  GALL 273-6047 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  @ 1-5323. TOGETHER, WE CAN RESTORE  
5:30pm Monday-Fri. Coach Sept 5­ If you know something about style  ORDER TO THE GALAXY!  
Need a fun·loving, responsible stu­dent to babysit 2 children ages 5&7  Oct 27. Paid position-Please call 291·4200 or 291-8731.  FOR SALE  1 need tickets to all home games.  and fashion and can write pretty well, give Krista a call. 1-4540.  $5.50 HAIRCUTS  
in my Granger home 2-3 afternoons  Gall Lisa at x451 0  thanks.  
a week 2-6 pm. Must have own  NEWSPAPER CARRIERS:  FREE I Sofa/hidabed. Heavy,  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
transportation. Please call  Students needed to deliver the  sizeable, useful. 277·2510.  Are you motivated? dedicated?  1523 LJNGOLNWAY WEST  
277-5786.  Chicago Tribune, New York Times  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Interested in writing?  SOUTH BEND -233-4767  
and Wall Street Journal on campus.  1990 HONDA CIVIC OX 4 DOOR  NEED MARRIED STUD TIX APPS  The Observer News Department  
Where the action isll Coach's  Excellent pay lor reliable people.  STICK 50,000MI $5300 272-2918  WILL PAY$$$$$$  wants youl  $$$$$$$$$$MONEY$$$$$$$$$$  
- Sports Bar is now hiring for part lime kitchen, dish and hostess positions. Perfect for students who need to make good $$$ to enjoy the NO years. Must be 18. Apply  Call Joe Murray@ 634-1680. FOR RENT  TICKETSII NOTRE DAME season tickets  NEED MARRIED STUD TIX APPS CALL 273-6047 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  See our ad this page! Welcome back roomies Charity, Emily, and Allison. I'm looking for- Yes, the Viewpoint (opinions)Department will be hiring people for PAID positions. If you write well, know grammar,  
in person, 2046 South Bend Ave.  ACCOMMODATION  wanted. Top dollar paid. 674-7625  1 G.A. TICKET NEEDED FOR B.C.  ward to a great year!  have an interest in journalism, etc.  
WANTED: Saint Mary's sports writ­ers and photographers. You do not  Englishwoman offers quiet accom­modation near campus lor ND/SMC visitors. Gall (219)631-6072 days,  (24 hrs.) * ... * * ••• * *. * ••• *. *. *. * *  GAME 271-1289 NEED TEXAS GA'S.  Love ya, Caroline Kiddo,  we may have a position to suit you. Call Michael O'Hara @631-4541for more information, or watch The  
have to commit on a lull-time basis.  (219) 273-1751 evenings.  TICKET-MART, INC.  CALL ALISON 1-800·43Hl010,  Yup, I'm back again, but just till  Observer lor further ads.  
-­ Call Caroline at  WANTED  EXT. 8796.  December, then I'm off to bluer pas­ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
284-4349 or come by room 222 in Holy Cross Hall.  NICELY DECORATED ROOMS FOR RENT. F-BALL WKNDS,  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY NO GAMES.  ********** * * •••••• * .....  lures. Oh and how about that wine. -An lllinios Farmer  Happy 21st Birthday,  
REASON. RATES, GREAT  BUY*SELL *TRADE  A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  Gretchen Johnson Jill  
PT babysitter lor great 10 yr old  ATMOS., CONTIN. BRKFST, 2  (219) 232-Q058 -24 HAS.  GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY  M-Only 2 people on the loft. No  
home schooler·fem. Flex hrs $4.Must like cats. 287-3315.  MILES OFF-CAMPUS. CALL KIM 277-8340.  GAMES. 219-232-Q061, 24 HAS.  more or Grandma will be after youl  Hey 7B, welcome back. These rna~ get more exciting in a lew weeks.  



Tuesday, August 22, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
Huskers hunt for help up front to make repeat run 
By DAVE ZELIO thing all over again. You're guard Aaron Taylor and tackle Associated Press going to see five guys who are Eric Anderson, who pulled a going to be smashing people hamstring on the first day of 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
around, doing the same things practice.Nebraska center Aaron 
we did last year." The new line is typical
Graham is already tired ol' an­Last season's line averaged Nebraska-it averages 290 swering the question of the day: 295 pounds, gave up just six pounds. But coaches and play­Will the "new" Cornhuskers sacks and was called for only ers say it needs more experi­ll'ne do the job for the national four holding penalties in lead­ence. champions? ing the team to its 11th national Nebraska lost 14 starters 
"This is Nebraska," said 
rushing title. from last year's team, including Graham, the only returning But the "Pipeline" is gone. the four offensive linemen and starter from last year's be­
The burden of protecting quar­four of five linebackers. hemoth line that opened holes terbacks Tommie Frazier and Coach Tom Osborne will sayfor the nation's best rushing Brook Berringer -who knows only that he believes his team attack. "We don't drop down, which will start? -falls to will be good. He also said play­we reload or however they say Graham, senior guard Steve ing for anything less than the that. Ott, junior tackle Chris Dish­championship again in the 
"It's going to be the same man and two sophomores, Fiesta Bowl would be "anticli-
Thursday, August 24 
•Sneak 
preview of the movie, "Brothers McMullen" Cushing Autlitorium 8 pm ant! I 0:30pm 

•FREE 
billiartls, 9 pm-I am, and FREE vitleo games, I0 pm-II prn in the LaFortune Gorch Games Room 


Friday, August 25 
•Welcome l3ack Picnic Fieldhouse Mall 4 pm-6 pn~ (~]_~ 
l;REE FOOD, GIVEAWAYS!!! ' 
;<fll,:r·, !'(\?. •Cometly Night at Washington Hall 8 pm $3.00 ....._'~~~-: I/. Featuring: Greer Barnes and Rock Reuben _ • c.". 
•FREE Ice Cream Social -Fieldhouse Mall I0-II :30 prn --......_; ­
•"While You Were Sleeping" ... ·• ··-,-~_,,,.,"' ·--·.1 ·~·-Cushing Auditorium 8 pm and 10:30 pm $2.00 
Saturday, August 26 
•Rockfest 
IV: featuring campus bands I'REE FOOD AND DRINKS Fieldhouse Mall I -5 pm 

•Notre 
Dame Night at Coveleski Statlium: South Bend Silverhawks vs. Burlington Bees l·REE TICKETS, at the LaFortune Info Desk FREE SHUTTLE to the stadium, begins at 5:45 pm ant! leaves 

from Stepan Center 

•"While 
You Were Sleeping" Cushing Auditorium 8 pm and I 0:30pm $2.00 


Sunday, August 27 
~~..? 
• "While You Were Sleeping"
~\.P~ 
~~~~ Cushing Auditorium 2 pm $2.00 
J. 
Sponsored by:
VV"
. 
Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 
\....... ~ Student Activities Student Government Student Union Board 
mactic." the starter until the week 
Don't look for drama in the before the Oklahoma State Husker schedule. Seven of the game. 11 games are at home, where Returning to the lineup for his Nebraska has won 23 straight junior season is l-back during an NCAA record 201 Lawrence Phillips, a leading consecutive sellouts. In one contender for the Heisman stretch, Nebraska has five Trophy. The nation's third­home games and a week off. leading rusher with 1,722 yards 
Oklahoma State, the Aug. 31 last year, Phillips rushed for at season-opener for Nebraska, least 100 yards in 11 straight and the four non-conference games. teams had a composite 1994 The soft-spoken Phillips has record of 25-30-1. The only not commented on off-field teams Nebraska faces in the problems that include a dis­first five games with winning turbing the peace charge and a records will be Washington $400 payment to settle a dis­State (8-4) and Pacific (6-5). pute with a student who said Nebraska beat Pacific 70-21 Phillips damaged his car and last year, and the Cougars re­jewelry during a confrontation. turn only three starters from a His relationship with a re­• defense that allowed only 223 cruiter for a sports agent also yards per game. was being reviewed by the 
At quarterback, Nebraska NCAA. coaches will decide between The receiving corps is deep, seniors Frazier and Berringer. with seniors Clester Johnson Frazier's blood clots are gone; and Reggie Baul and juniors his throwing is better and he is Brendan Holbein and Jon 21-3 as a starter. Berringer, Vedra!. The Huskers averaged however, impressed coaches 137.8 yards passing last sea­with his improved running dur­son, well below the 340-yard ing spring practice and he led per game rushing attack. Nebraska to eight victories last "We feel like if we have to season. throw the ball 40. 45 times a 
"Obviously, one guy is going game that we are a good to be a little bit disappointed in enough receiving corps to get his playing time," said Osborne, the job done," said Holbein, a who does not plan to decide on split end. 
INDIANAUNIVERSITY SOUTIIBEND 
CO~GEDUCATION 
More than 200 classes in professional and personal development 
• Computers • Purdue Statewide Technology • • Business Management • Small Business • Supervision • • Communications • Languages • Allied Health • • Certified Financial Planner • CEBS • Human Resources • • Accounting • Customer Service • Paralegal Studies • • Purchasing Management • Small Manufacturing • • Production & Inventory Management • 
-
• Quality Management • Safety & Health Management • • Real Estate • Insurance • Montessori Education • • Early Childhood • Youth Programs • College Proficiency • LSAT, GRE, GMAT Reviews • • Personal Finance • Personal Enrichment • Recreation • 
Classes begin Sept. 5 Call for your free catalog 237-4261 
SEE YOU AT ACTIVITIES NIGHT! TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5 7:00-9:00 Office Hours: 8:00-5:00 
631-6100 
r 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, August 22, 1995 

Humble Hurricanes just another contender 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
The swagger is gone. 
Miami's Hurricanes, the best and baddest team in college football for much of the past dozen years, now look like just another Top Ten contender. 
·The weight of scandal has humbled the Hurricanes. Following months of stories about drugs, fraud and playing for pay, Miami opens the sea­son Sept. 2 at UCLA with a slate that is anything but clean. 
What's more. new coach Butch Davis must overcome predecessor Dennis Erickson's shortcomings as a recruiter. The Hurricanes have only nine seniors, including two kickers. 
Davis last coached at Miami in 1988 as an assistant to Jimmy Johnson. That team, Davis said, had better speed, better depth and a better atti­tude than the players he inher­ited from Erickson. 
"They have taken winning for granted -that it's something that automatically happens because they belong to the University of Miami," Davis said. "They have lost a certain amount of the work ethic that it has taken to win." 
The Hurricanes also have lost five games in the past two years. That's as many as they lost from 1987 to 1992. 
An NCAA record 58-game winning streak at home ended last year against Washington. Hopes for a national title ended with the Hurricanes' fourth­quarter foldup in an Orange Bowl loss to eventual champion Nebraska. 
This year, for the first time since 1985, Miami failed to earn a Top 10 spot in the pre­season rankings. The Hurri­canes are 11th. 
"Maybe it will help motivate the players that people don't think we will be very good," Davis said. 
"The team and the coaches have very high expectations. We're going to be very disap­pointed if we don't put our­selves in position to win the Big East Conference championship and compete for the national championship. We may have a chance to sneak up on some people." 
Davis' freckles and Huck Finn drawl belie a toughness that helped him win two Super Bowl rings as an assistant to Johnson with the Dallas Cowboys. Miami's new coach will need all the toughness he can muster to rein in a program character-

The Observer 
News Department is now accepting applications for the folloiwng paidpositions: 
Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor Chief Copy Editor Copy Editor 
Interested? Submit a brief resume & personal statement to Dave Tyler by Friday August 25rh Questions? Call Dave@ 1-5323 
-
• 
Most Romantic Mishawaka WE NEED SERVERS! 
Notre Dame's Favorite Italian Restaurant for the p~t 10 years! 
-
Banquet Rooms Available 
Hours 4-10 4-ll 


(Francesco was 

ized by critics as out of control. 
"This becomes a passionate thing with me from having been here before, because I know how many good kids were here," Davis said. "Some of the stuff is blown out of proportion. Some of the stuff did happen. There's no question it's an embarrassment." 

The Hurricanes once thrived on controversy, but the magni­tude of the most recent allega­tions deflated their defiance. Now Miami must plead for mercy, aware that a financial aid scandal, play-for-pay scheme and violations of the team's drug-testing policy could lead to probation. 
School administrators speak often of their desire to improve the Hurricanes' image, but with an NCAA investigation under way, it won't be easy. 
"Our image will never change, I don't care what we try and do," quarterback Ryan Collins said. "We could be an­gels. People are still going to think we're the worst players in the world." 
Miami still has good players, but perhaps not enough to overtake intrastate rivals Florida State and Florida, both ranked in the preseason top five. The Hurricanes produced 14 first-round draft picks in the past nine years, but their only star going into this season is junior middle linebacker Ray Lewis. 
"The biggest problem this team has facing it is growing up rapidly," Davis said. "It is young. We have to replace 15 starters. We are truly going to be untested and inexperienced, and we are going to have to grow up fast." 
As a college student, the Chicago Tribune knows your 
time and money are valuable. That's why we bring the world to you with all the regional, national and inter­
<fhital\O[ribune 
national news you want at a price you can afford. 
ORDER TODAY using the coupon below or, for faster service, call 
1-800-TRIBUNE 1-800-874-2863 j( 
Ask for operator 201. 
On-campus delivery will automatically stop for vacations and holidays. 
Mail coupon to: Chicago Tribune, 2000 York Rd., Suite 124, Oak Brook, IL 60521-0001 
CHECK ONE FULL-TERM, 32 WEEKS HALF-TERM,16 WEEKS Seven-day D $64.00 ($2.00/wk) D $37.60 ($2.35/wk) Mon.-Sat. D $41.60 ($1.30/wk) 0 $25.60 ($1.60/wk) Sun. only D $48.00 ($1.50/wk) 0 $24.00 ($1.50/wk) 
Payment by: 0 Check 0 MasterCard 0 VISA 0 American Express 0 Discover AccountNo,______________Exp.~Date _____________ 
Signature----------------------------­Name (Please print)---------------------------­School ______________________-:-:-:------­
Address/dorm,________________ Apt.lroom no. ____ City_________________...eState______Zip _______ Phone L____)____________________________ 
In areas not serviced by home delivery. mail subscriptions will be offered. This offer expires December 31, 1995. Offer oot valid witfl any other Chicago Tribune discount. 
OP201 

Tuesday, August 22, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 

-~ 
r 
-
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Varsho hit propels Phillies 
By MICHAEL A. LUTZ 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Pinch-hitter Gary Varsho hit a two-run single in the eighth inning Thursday to give the Philadelphia Phillies a 3-2 vic­tory over the Houston Astros, only their third win in 15 games. 
With no outs in the eighth, Lenny Webster reached on a fielder's choice and went to third on a single by Kevin Flora. 
Flora stole second before Varsho singled off Todd Jones 





OfficeMax® 

Logicode 2B.BK V.34 Modem 
• 28.8K data send and receive 
1405-7717
$odei#28124HV 9~~:• 
Low Price 14.4K Internal Modem $49.991405·8609 
1 

r;------;-~ 
~aai~~~;t!il 1 
~-------­
We'll match any local competitor's advertised price on an identical ijem, or we'll cheerfully refund the difference if the item was purchased from us wijhin seven days of the competijor's ad. Ad errors, closeouts and clearances are excluded. 
CCopyr~ghl 1995,OfficeMax, Inc We reserve the nghl to hmll quantities Not responsible for printing or typographical errors 
(6-3). his first hit in six at-bats since coming off the disabled list Aug. 7 with a strained right forearm. 
Paul Fletcher (1-0) got the fi­nal two outs in the seventh, and Toby Borland pitched the final two innings for his fourth save. 
Houston took a 2-1 lead in the seventh on Mike Simms' RBI double. Dave Magadan led off with a single off Tommy Greene and was replaced by pinch-run­ner Brian Hunter. 
Simms followed with a loop­ing double into the left-field corner and Hunter scored standing. 

Extended Hours For Back-To-School Shopping! Now Through September 10: Sun.10am-6pm• Mon.-Fri. 8 am-10 pm • Sat. 9 am-9 pm 


Serving the Michiana Area! 
MISHAWAKA/SOUTH BEND 
Wilshire Plaza 
Grape and Douglas Roads, next to Builder's Square 
273-0328 
..... 
•' 
• Get connected to the Internet fast & easy 
$1-2105
2gQ~x 
Everyday
Low Pnce 
The Phillies went ahead 1-0 in the first when Kevin Stocker doubled off Doug Brocail and scored Jim Eisenreich's infield single. 
Houston tied it in the bottom half when John Cangelosi sin­gled, went to third on Craig Biggio's single and scored on a grounder by Derrick May. 
Mter the first inning, Greene kept the Astros in control until the seventh. 
He allowed seven hits in 6 1-3 innings, struck out three and walked two. 
Brocail pitched seven innings, allowing one run on seven hits. 

Avery 1" Three RingBinder 
• 8-1 /2" X 11 " 
• 
Double inside pockets 

• 
Available in seven colors List Price $3.05 0400-4507 


Papermate Stick Pens 
• 
Superior writing performance 

• 
Medium or fine ball points 

• 
Available in black, blue or red ink List Price $5.04 1000-0367 


Eberhard Faber American Pencils 
• No. 2 bonded lead  
• Durable pink eraser  
List Price  $15.54  
$2@~Everyday Low Price  Yellow 1000-1927  


tes complete ,.,,._·ame sweep 
the Mets three times in New York from June 24-26. 1994. It is their first five-game sweep since July 12-15, 1984 against San Francisco. 
With the score tied at 3 in five~game the seventh, Jacob Brumtleld Marlins. and Al Martin singled off Mark Mc,nda~ , Gardner (5-5). Garcia then hit . , ?han 0·2 pitch that bounced off 
season· streak first ... · heat 

Visit our State-of-the-art Xerox1Photocopy Center Center & save on 1 
1 Self-Service 1 
r --------, 
•COPIES!:
l2¢8-1/2"x11",
I black ink on I 20# white I
I bond. One couponI each per customerlI
1 

OfficeMaz·
I _.... -I
L ~u!!n~o:!,.th~g!.B/~9!_ .J 
the warning track in lett-cen· tar field to score both runs. · also extended his hit· 
to 1.3 games. 
¢ 
OfficeMax Everyday Low Price 
09 
OfficeMax Everyday Low Price 

RogersCrate-A-File II 
• 
3 hanging folders included 

• 
Available in slate blue. black, 


granite and burgundy List Price 
$13.95 0302-3953 

Everyday




$5~'~'
Low Price 
.. 

Miami, New England fight to be beast of the AFC East 
-
By BARRY WILNER 
Associated Press 
The stars of the AFC East aren't just in Buffalo and Miami anymore. They've found their way to New England and Middle America. Only the big city, New York, pretty much lacks them. 
And with the defection of such mainstays as Darryl Talley, Pete-Metzelaars and Don Beebe this year, following the likes of Will Wolford, Nate Odomes and Howard Ballard in previous seasons, the Bills hardly are a threat to get into (and, of course, lose) the Super Bowl. 
The Dolphins added to their cast of headliners by signing tight end Eric Green and wide receivers Gary Clark and Ricky Sanders, bringing back safety Louis Oliver and trading for qefensive end Trace Armstrong and cornerback Terrell Buckley. It's time to make what could be a final run at the big one for Dan Marino and Don Shula. 
''I'm disappointed we haven't gotten to the Super Bowl in 10 years," says Shula, the win­ningest coach in pro football history. "But no one is working harder to correct that than I atn." 
So Shula gave Marino more weapons in Green, one of the league's best tight ends when interested; Clark and Sanders, whose best days came as two­thirds of the "Posse" in Washington, but who are de­pendable enough to help ease the burden on Irving Fryar (73 receptions, 1,270 yards, both career highs, a 17.4 average and seven touchdowns); and blockers Billy Milner and An­drew Greene, the top two draft choices. 
Marino also gets back his reg­ular backfield of Terry Kirby and Keith Byars, both of whom went down with knee injuries in 1994. That left the rushing burden to Bernie Parmalee, who ran for 868 yards as a fill­in. 
For once, the Dolphins seem formidable behind Marino. We already know they are strong in front of him to the left with tackle Richmond Webb and guard Keith Sims. But untested center Tim Ruddy replaces departed free agent Jeff 
C!>eb 'n C!>reakfast ~egistry 
South Bmdi Fim &gittry ofPriwtt< Hom<J1.hl Smting Parmti and Frimdr ofNotr~ DaJM and ~ Saint Maryi Colkge • Try the OPTION! 
Enjoy a "HomtAwayfromHo~e" 
Perfecr for Graduation, Football, JPW, Freshman Orientation, Reunions Wilma I. Bclmluo (219) 291-7153 

•LI'IIIIIlllllils (II) !:DD, 4:31, 7:00, 9:30 
•Free 
WWy 2(PG) 1:15, 3:15, 5:21, 7:30, 9:40 

•A 
Dill Kill Altrl2 (PG) 1:15,3:30,5:35,7:40,8:50 

•
Dl...,~· (PG) 1:31, 3:35, 5:25, 7:25,1:35 •A Wllk IIDI CIIID OIG-13) 1:81,3:20,5:40,7:55, 11:10 ·•,._.(II) 1:25, 3:40, 5:50, 8:00, 10:20 •lllil (G) 1:15, 3:10, 5:15, 7:21,1:28 ·~(I'G-13) 1:35, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 8:45, 

•IIIII 
II Dl ~(PG) 1:20,3:25,5:30,7:35,8:55 ••-2(II) 1:11,3:25,5:30,7:58, 10:00 


~1 I:J All SEATSI:JI:~OilE 6 Pl.1
*tiO PASSb SUP~II~AI'tR5 f•CCEPTEO 
Dellenbach. 
"I like the moves we've made to improve our offense," says Marino, who should become the career leader in passing yardage, completions and touchdowns this season. "And what we've done for our defense, too." 
The Dolphins, who tied for the league lead with 23 in­terceptions, would like to see Buckley challenge J.B. Brown at cornerback. They are solid on the other side with Troy Vincent, and there is experi­ence and depth at safety. 
The front line features 1994 defensive rookie of the year Tim Bowens at tackle and pass­rushing demon Marco Coleman at end. Armstrong should bol­ster the sacks total. 
The main worry is at line­backer, where only Bryan Cox in the middle is proven. That's 
the  one  area  where  Shula  
couldn't find much help.  
Miami  outlasted  New  

England's late charge last year to win the division. Things 
We believe we have the finest tasting drinking water. 
Introductory Offer: 
a month rental 
• on all coolers. 10 gallons of water free. 


$5 00 

FREE DELIVERY TO YOUR DORM OR OFFICE 
(/ 

2218S. Main 
• South Bend 
EXPIRES 11/3194 Call for Details 
CALL 189·6371 or 1·800-634·6517 

FUNKY TUESDAYS 

A tuesday welcome back student FUNK party. 
Featuring: Spicey mouth watering food and drink specials, and Guest Dj's. 
Both dance floors will be open and playing your favorite funk and hip-hop music to dance to. 
$1.00 admission before 11 pm. $3.00 after 11pm. (with student ID) 

For info on daily food and drink specials, and entertainment schedule call:233-8505 Doors open: Mon-Sat 4pm. to 3am. 
shouldn't change much this season. 
The Patriots hardly have the Bill Parcells look his New York Giants teams had. New England will win with offense, behind the rapidly developing Drew Bledsoe, who led the league in completions, attempts and yardage in his second pro sea­son. Ben Coates set a record for tight ends with 96 catches and could beat that figure, especial­ly if Vincent Brisby stays healthy. 
But the Pats could be undone by depth at receiver and in the backfield on offense. They lost three key players to free agency in Michael Timpson, Kevin Turner and Leroy Thompson, who combined for 191 recep­tions. 
Signing David Meggett was a master stroke, and Meggett will boost the attack. But he's not an every-down player. 
Up front, Dellenbach enhances a line that already has steady tackles Bruce Arm­strong and Pat Harlow. 
The defense is taking more time for Parcells to develop. The sudden retirement of Todd Collins and injuries to Vincent Brown damaged the inside line­backing. Youngsters Chris Slade, a sack specialist, and 1994 No. 1 pick Willie McGinest have to be ready on the outside. 
The line is mediocre, as is a secondary that was torched in the first half of last season before settling down. 
Indianapolis won't settle for anything less than a playoff berth after an 8-8 finish a year ago. The Colts won three of their last four as their defense got stingy, and that unit could be even better if linebacker-end Trev Alberts contributes after an injury-ravaged rookie sea­son. 
The big-play guys on defense are cornerback Ray Buchanan (seven interceptions in as many games after moving from safe­ty) and end Tony Bennett (nine sacks). 
Where the Colts figure to make a leap up is with the ball. 
They were 27th in total offense and 28th and last in passing. 

Two Convenient Locations Close to Campus/ 
Soulh Be.1d-University Comfll'l•lS 
(ICross from UniVI!rslty Pirlr Mall) 
Phone 272·7653 


COLLEGE THURSDAYS 
Featuring: Two exciting bands: Fielder Blou Jewel's the Future 
Plus Lady Melo-"D"spinning your favorite Tootsie Roll, Booty call, Percolator, and Hip-hop music, to dance the night away!! 
$5.00 admission $3.00 admission (with student ID) 
.. 
Tuesday, August 22, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
-
•AFC 
San Diego faces bumpy road to AFC West repeat 
By DAVE GOLDBERG ered a middle-of-the-pack Associared Press team. So they went to the Super Bowl where they were embar­
Before last season, the San 
rassed by San Francisco. Diego Chargers were consid-
This year, however, the divi­

r------------------------~ 
Come on in and relax! 
Edison Plaza-1631 Edison Rd. 
(across from the Linebacker) 
(219) 273-6216 

Monday-Friday 7:00a.m.-10:00p.m. Saturday 9:00a.m.-Midnight Sunday Hours Coming Soon! 
L------------------------~ 
sion is wide open. 
Denver has shored up its de­fense, the Raiders have gotten a lift by moving back to Oakland ­and the Chargers are still seek­ing to prove themselves. 
"I think everybody respects what we did last year," says quarterback Stan Humphries. "Everybody says you had a great season, congratulations and all that. But I don't know if everybody really respects us as a team. That's something we still have to earn, I guess. 
Enter the Raiders, last year's consensus choice to win the AFC title. They never quite recovered from a 44-14 loss in San Francisco the opening Monday night and finished 9-7, out of the playoffs. AI Davis fired Art Shell and hired Mike White, a coach-in-waiting for more than a decade. 

r--~fje~ew-~-ortt~tmes--: 
: DELIVERED FOR ONLY 40 CENTS PER DAY MON·SAT! 1 
I OMon-Fri $25.20 OMan-Sun $69.20 I 
I OMan-Sat $29.20 OSun Only $40.00 I I Full delivery begins Mon., Sept. 4 & ends Fri., Dec. 8 I 1 No Delivery Fall Break (Oct. 14-22) or Thanksgiving Break (Nov. 23-26) 1 1 Make Checks payable fo,City News Service 1 1 Name: __________________________Phone: ______ 1 I Address: ________________________ -_---------1 1Clip and mail to: City News Service, 1147 Mishawaka Ave., S. Bend., IN 46615 1 L __~-,£a~~ ~e~e~ ~c~wL!'~I~I~a!.ln!2, '2;s!_i'!l-~o~u~ __ ...1 
They may have added the running back they needed in Napoleon Kaufman, its first­round draft choice. But they'll still live on the vertical passing game -Jeff Hostetler to Tim Brown, James Jett and Rocket Ismail, although Jett and Ismail have been spotty. 
The defense should be im­proved after a year adjusting to the retirement of Howie Long, both on and off the field. If Chester McGlockton, the mas­sive tackle, keeps his weight down, he could be a disruptive force and Rob Fredrickson, the No. 1 choice last year, looks like a future linebacking star. 
What may help most is simply the move. 
"They never had a home field in Los Angeles," says Gene Up­shaw, the Hall of Fame guard who played for 14 years in Oak­land and ended his career with a final season in the southland. "We always felt the crowd was one reason we were so success­ful there." 
Like the Raiders, the Broncos started slowly last season, los­ing their first four games and ending up 7-9. As with the Raiders, the coach got fired ­Wade Phillips was replaced by Mike Shanahan. 
But there was more too it than that. The Broncos, who beefed up their offense before the 1994 season, had the NFL's worst defense even though Phillips' background was there. 
So this year they got defend­ers -linemen Michael Dean Perry and James Jones from the Browns and cornerback Lionel Washington from the Raiders. 
The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Accent Editor Accent Copy Editor 
Bring Personal Statement to Krista Nannery in 314 LaFortune 
Calll-4540 for more information 


SENIOR PORTRAITS 
Sign Up August 22-25 (on-campus students) North Dining Hall • South Dining Hall 
During _Lunch and Dinner 
August 22-Sept I (off-campus students) 
Lobby ofLaFortune 


Who: When: 
Where: Why: 

Class of 1996 Pictures taken August 29 thru September 15 Third Floor, LaFortune To Be In 1996 Dome 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, August 22, 1995
-
•NFL 

Pro football a new, exciting thing in Jacksonville 
By PAUL NEWBERRY antsy, nervous, excited. I finally games a year (the Gator Bowl "It's always been a football That fervor was demonstrat­Associated Press said, 'OK, let's go to the in addition to Georgia vs. town," Adkins said. "We might ed Friday. Nearly everyone 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 
Jay Adkins had waited two decades for an NFL team to call his own, and he couldn't wait any longer. 
He packed up his van and headed to Jacksonville Municipal Stadium more than five hours before the expansion Jaguars played their first home game, a Friday night exhibition against the St. Louis Rams. 
"After I got here and sat down, got the chairs out, the umbrellas up, yeah, I started feeling like, 'You know, this could be it,"' Adkins said as he lounged outside his vehicle in a parking lot near the stadium, his T -shirt soaked with sweat in the 90-degree heat. 
"But I don't think it's going to hit me till there are 73,000 fans screaming in that stadium," he added, looking toward the new $140 million stadium built on the site of the old Gator Bowl. ':That's going. to be something else. This is not going to be like a preseason game anywhere else in the league this year." 
John and Teresa Henniger also arrived early. 
"He's been like a little kid on Christmas Eve all day," Mrs. Henniger said. "He's been game.'" 
Henniger said he has switched his allegiance from the Green Bay Packers to the Jaguars. 
"I've been to games in five other NFL cities, but nothing compares to this," he said. 
While a few hundred fans ar­rived early like Adkins and the Hennigers, most didn't show up until shortly before the 7 p.m. kickoff. There were long lines to get in the stadium, but they moved quickly and no one seemed upset. 
"I just hope we get in before kickoff," one fan said. 
The crowd was relatively tame, with none of the shenani­gans associated with the Georgia-Florida college game, held in the old Gator Bowl and known as "The World's Largest Cocktail Party." 
"I think this is pretty mild," Adkins said as he surveyed a half-empty parking lot. "A lot of people had to work a full day and they're late coming. But I think Sunday mornings, four hours before game time, it's going to he full." 
The entire city had been dreaming of this day since the mid-1970s. People who had learned to be content with watching a couple of college 

The Observer 
-'is now hiring 'in the following department: 
Advertising Design 
Looking for underclassmen with computer/ design experience in Quark Xpress, Freehand, and/ or Photoshop 
Please contact Jennifer Mackowiak or Ryan Malayter at 1-747lfor more information. 

-;--~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::+-~ 

WANTED: 
20 Paid Student Callers Students looking for a part-time job that will give them real life experience in an enjoyable work environment, calling alumni on behalf of the Notre Dame Annual Fund. 
REWARD: 
Training, evening hours, $5.95/hour. 
II Fit the description? 
II 
j j Stop b~~n:x:fe~:;:f~;~~~~;'~~ssions ii 



II 0:~~~~f~:lfeie~~it~~:~:~~m I 
!i Questions? Call Kent Goffmet ll l l , ..,(1-7938) or Katy Hart (1-7241) n l l 
:..;..;..: iD'-e e-. ·---:-·t··· 
:••~---····································································-············-·············· ··+•-'
:...................................................................................................................................: 

Florida) and an occasional NFL hay_e_!J. small TV market, but we who descended on the stadium exhibition fmally had their own have more fan support here was decked out in a teal, gold team. than most people realize." and black shirt of some kind. 
Wanna stay in shape this year? 
No SWEAT. 
.

($1 0 Down, $28/mo., Full gymnasium. 
I 

• 20/mo., Aerobics only. Student rates.) 
World Gym Fitness Center 
Town &·Country ·shopping Center 254-0460 just 7 minutes from campus! 

Tuesday, August 22, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
Black 
continued from page 28 
nal of truth that an argument did escalate to a point of shoving and physical contact." 
Black, who was a respected and visible mem­
ber of the Notre Dame athletic community during his tenure with the Irish, offered his apologies to the University and the community "for any embar­rassment this has caused." 
"Jimmy has made major con­tributions to this program," 


noted MacLeod. Black 
"He was very popular, and we arc sorry to see him go. He has helped us along the way and we appreciate what he has done. We will do anything we can to help him now." 
Blaek was the starting point guard on North Carolina's 1982 national championship squad, a backcourt mate of former Tar Heel Michael Jordan. 
lie finished his career second on North Carolina's all-time assist list. 
Black's position will be filled by Parker Laketa, a 1985 graduate of Kansas State who has been the restricted earnings coach on the team for the past three years. 
Prior to his stint with the Irish, Laketa was an assistant at Western Michigan. 
Tyler, an 11-year veteran of the National Basketball Association and a graduate of the University of Detroit, was named to Laketa's vacated position. 
After beginning his career in 1978 with the Detroit Pistons and moving to the Sacramento Kings in 1985, Tyler finished his career under MacLeod with the Dallas Mavericks. He aver­aged 10.2 points per game in his 871 game career. Most recently, Tyler was coordinator of the Town North YMCA in Dallas. 
"I worked hard to play at the level of basketball where the elite play and now I want to give something back to the game," Tyler said. "I hope I can be a great credit to Notre Dame and I know I can learn a lot at Notre Dame. Coach MacLeod has had a great impact on my life because of his work ethic." 
The Irish begin their regular season against Akron at home in the Joyce Center November 25. 
The South Bend Tribune contributed to this report 


~I·'



r-----------_,
150% Off ADf Food Purchase!1 
I I
Vp tD SZ.OO. NDt IWimaMe IW Cub. Llld OM BIJtr-Dec 31 1115

L----------­
-.1 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
Martin's 


I 
I eGreat food in a casual atmosphere I 
• I 
I I I I
: .Open until LoOOam 
I • I 
: ellealtlt' menu items I 
I

/ 
I

• 1817 S.R. 23 ·· I ePooJ. 1\ibles, Dart Boards. &Wide Screen TV's ~ 
•

277-JACK(S225) 
I I 

(In Campus Shoppes Plaza) 1 Hold your club ewnts or private parties here I
I I I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 


AreaS only Microbrewery! 

Study Booths  Baby Back Ribs  Puburrito  
Irish Meat Pie  Sandwiches  Appetizers  
Hopgarden Patio 61" Widescreen T.V.  Pool & Darts  

256-9993 
3703 N. Main St., Mishawaka 1/2 Block South of Edison 

I•SPO•T8 BRIEFS 
;!;:!,!' ..· Notr~ Dame Baseball tearil'··· · ··be holding amanda­to*y meeting on Friday, August 25 at 6 pm at Frank Eek Stadium for all those 

· to try out for the var· ball team. 
orts lntramul'als ­is offering Interhall · & ·... ad/Fac/Staff Baseball, Interhall (Men's & Women's) & Gra.d/Fac!Staff Football, IH 
The entry dates are f'rotn August 23 to August 30 in the RecSports office. Please caU ReeSports (1-6100) for date and time for captains' meetin.gs. Our new hotllne is 1.·8REC. 

• ~i!ltblott .. RecSports will be sponsoring a biathlon on Saturday, August 26 at 10:30 AM. There will be individual or team competition in both varsity and non-varsity divi· 

ere is no charge for For more info call 

Course • There will be ~ information meeting for this t;ourse on Sunday, August 27aU!OO in Rockne l4n 218. Co · · · f;lticm of course results 
in' certification. For calll-6100; 
meets in Rockne 219 MIW 4:30-6:30 starting Wednesday, September 14. You must reg­ister in advance and the fee is $15.00. A demonstration will be held on September 4 at 5:00 'in l4n 219. Call 1-6100 for more info. 
Women's Safety and Self­Defense -Class meets for ten sessions on M/W from 6:30­
7:45 in Rockne Rm 219. Class begins on Monday, September 4 and is open to students and staff. Fee is $9.00 and more info at 1.6100. 
Ballet -Semester long course that meets on Sundays from 1:00-3:00 in Rockne l4n 
301. An informational meet­ing will be held on Sunday, September 3 at 1:00 in Rockne Rm 301. The fee is $25.00 and more info at 1­6100. 
Horseback Riding Lessons ­The information meeting for this course will be Thursday, September 7 at 6:00 in the Rolfs Aquatic Facility class­room. Class begins September 14 and more info at 1-6100. 
Athletic Commissioners ­All hall Athletic Commissioners need to con­tact the RecSports office. We need names, phone numbers. and addresses. Please call 1­5100. 

Attention all students 
Anyone interested in joining The Observer sports staff should come to a meeting tonight at 7 pm on the 3rd floor of LaFortune. 
Any questions, call Mike at 1-4543 
RECREATIONAL SPORfS 
UNNERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Located in the Joyce Center 1st Floor 631-6100 
-
-
r---------­
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, August 22, 1995 
had no air conditioning at

• BASEBtU.l 
-Culver night. There were only two 
spots to avoid the heat." 

Mesa sets record in Cleveland's win 
continued from page 28 

By CHUCK MELVIN 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 

It may have taken a little longer than Jose Mesa would have liked, but there's no ques­tion about it now: He's found his niche. 
The 29-year-old right-hander set a major league record Sunday with his 37th save in 37 chances after the Cleveland Indians rallied for five runs in the eighth inning to beat the Milwaukee Brewers 8-5. 
Mesa, who hasn't allowed an earned run since June 8, pitched a scoreless ninth to sur­pass Dennis Eckersley's single­season mark of 36 straight saves without a blown opportu­nity set in 1992. San Francisco's Rod Beck converted a record 41 in a row over three seasons from 1993-95. 
"(Pitching coach) Mark Wiley looked at me after two outs and said, 'You realize he·'s in uncharted territory,"' manager Mike Hargrove said. "'Nobody in the history of this game has been where he's about to be.' I think it's the most improbable thing anybody can imagine." 
Coming into this season, Mesa had all of two saves to his name, having gone 2-for-6 in save situations last year. For four seasons before that and for most of his minor league career, he was a so-so starter who tended to wear out early. 
Now, he works one inning ­no more, no less-and can let loose with the 98-mph fastball that has enchanted the Indians since they acquired him from Baltimore in a 1992 trade. He has pitched exactly one inning in each of his last 40 appear­ances. 
"When you're just coming in for one inning, you're coming in and giving it everything you've got," Mesa said. "This is the first time I've done it, and so far I've had success. I like it right now. I don't know how long it's going to last." 
Paul Sorrento and Wayne Kirby each drove in two runs for the Indians in the eighth inning as they overcame a 5-3 deficit. Sorrento hit a two-out, bases-loaded double off Steve Sparks (7-7) and Kirby followed with a pinch single off Rob Dibble. Omar Vizquel added an RBI single off Angel Miranda. 
Albert Belle and Manny Ramirez homered for the Indians, who won the final three games of the four-game set to increase their lead over the Brewers to 19 games. 
Cleveland has won 21 games in its last at-bat this season. 
Hooray! Today is Jill's 20th Birthday 
Happy Birthday! With Love From Your Family 
P.S. She'1 the CirllrDm the 
WELCOME BACK ND & SMC 
Here's your chance to take 25% OFF the area's best Oriental Cuisine from: 

-






o-e~~ 
South Bend, Indiana 46635 (219)272-6702 • 
Chinese, Vietnamese, & Amencan Food 
Lunch 11 :OOa.m.-3:00p.m. Dinner menu will be served after 3:00p.m. 
15 Years of Service Award The Chamber Of Commerce St. Joseph County 
"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
• 
Fresh Ingredients 

• 
Lunch Specials starting at $3.50 


includes: egg roll, soup and tea 
• 
Dinners starting at $5 

•Private 
Dining Booths 

•Custom 
cooking with no MSG • Vegetarian Menu ~""o-=,.,w="'•


.. ... •1 5 Years of Service Award -....,.,.,===+·• 
For Reservations &Carry Out Call: 
272-6702 

HOORS·
For Dine-In Delivery Call: 
lob1·11miiAII-9PII 
fnliy II Ali-IOPU Sallllday<PII-IOPU 
272-2328 
/u'>t present this coupon! t>xp ires l)/OC)/lJ S 

Sparks gave up a two-run home run to Belle in the first inning, his 28th, and a leadoff home run by Ramirez in the second, his 28th, then blanked the Indians until the eighth. 
Carlos Baerga led off the inning with a triple, and an infield grounder by Belle and a walk loaded the bases. Sorrento's double to right tied it 5-5 and finished Sparks. 
"The thing about pitching against Cleveland is, you have to concentrate all the way through the lineup," Sparks said. "They feed off each other. One guy gets a hit, and it pumps up the other guys. Then you really have trouble." 
Julian Tavarez (8-1) pitched a perfect eighth, striking out two, and Mesa had two strikeouts in the ninth while allowing two base runners. 
incentive for smoother things out. 
"After last season, we needed a way to get rid of the distrac­tions and come together as a team," Edwards noted. "The time we spent at Culver really built unity.'' 

Starting on August lOth and lasting a bit more than a week, the Irish had nothing but foot­ball on their minds. With no cars, televisions, and just three phones on the grounds of Culver, Holtz' charges had nothing else to do. Except bake in the sun. 
"The heat was damn near unbearable," Edwards said. "During practices, the sun was out the entire time and near one hundred degrees. Plus, we 
But like everything else, the heat just served as another thing for the squad to rally around. 
"We were tired and hot but the guy next to us was just as tired and just as hot," Edwards commented. "That really kept us going." 
Being isolated like that gave the upperclassmen like Edwards an even easier time keeping an eye on the freshman and guiding them through their football orientation period. 
"We do what we can to show them the way," he said. 
Now, the squad is back on campus and returning to nor­mal. 
Will the camaraderie of Culver be missed? "Culver was great but we're sure happy to be back." 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
announces 

Opening Reception and Auditions for Theatrical Productions 
All persons interested in information about theatre curriculum or productions are invited 
Reception: Wednesday, August 23, 6:00PM Washington Hall--Laboratory Theatre (North Entrance) 
Auditions for The Imaginary Invalid by Moliere and Six Degrees ofSeparation by John Guare Wednesday, August 23 post reception and Thursday, August 24 
Call631-5956 or 631-7054 for details 
Great Scores... FREE. Saturday, August 26 9 am • Take a full-length test, proctored like the real thing . • Receive a computer analysis of your test-taking strengths and weaknesses. Call 1-800-KAP-TEST to reserve your seat or sign up at 101 o·shaughnessy get a higher score 1·800-KAP·TEST KAPLAN-· '  

Tuesday, August 22, 1995 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 1995 
TUESDA~SEPTEMBER5TH 
7:00PM-9:00PM 
JOYCE CENTER 
The following groups are registered to participate in Activities Night. Ifyour club or organization is not listed, and you would like to participate, please stop by the Student Activities Office (315 La Fortune) to register. The deadline to regis-­ter for Activities Night is noon on Wednesday, August 30th. Call631-7308 for more information. 
Accounting Association Ad works African-American Student Alliance African Students' Association AIDS Ministries/Aids Assist American Cancer Society A mer. fnstituteofAeronautics/ Astronautics American SocietyofCivil Engineers A mer. Society of Mechanical Engineers Amnesty International Anthropology Club Arab American Club Arts/Letters Business Society Asian American Association Bagpipe Club Ballet Folklorico Azul y Oro Ballroom Dance Club Baptist Student Union Best Buddies Beta Alpha Psi Big Brothers/Big Sisters Biology Club . . _.. ·-.
B()xirig Club' ~-J ........ ... ........ • .•_.. --·uv~-'
.. u 

Boys/Girls Club ofSt. Joseph County Camp Millhouse, Inc. Campus Alliance For Rape Elimination Campus Fellowship Campus Ministry Campus Ministry-Communities NO Catholic Charities, Rainbows Program Center for Basic Learning Center for the Homeless Center for Social Concerns ( CSC) CSC Fall Break Service Projects CSC Seminars CSC Urban Plunge Chess Club Children of Mary Circle K International Climbing Club College Democrats College Republicans Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics Computer Club Coro Primavera De Nuestra Senora Council for Fun & Learning Council for the Retarded Council on International Business Develop. Cricket Club Cycling Club DismaofMichiana Dome Educational Talent Search Entrepreneur Club Equestrian Club Fellowship ofChristian Athletes Filipino American Student Organization Finance Club 
First Aid Services Team Flip Side Flying Club Folk Choir Foodshare German Club Girl Scouts ofSinging Sands Goodwill ofMichiana Greek American Association Gymnastics Club Habitat for Humanity Handbell Choir Hawaii Club Helpful Undergraduate Students (HUGS) Hispanic American Organization Homeless Shelter Children's Group Hospitality Prog./Undergrad Schools Comm. India Association Instituteof Electrical/Electronic Engineers International Student Organization Investment Club Irish Accent 
,/ ' 
Irish Outdoors Italian Club Japan Club Judo Club Juggler Junior Achievement ofMichiana, Inc. Knights ofColumbus Knights ofthe Immaculata Korean Club La Casa de Amistad, Inc. Lacrosse (Women's) Lambda Alpha Society League ofBlack Business Students League ofUnited Latin American Citizens Legal Services Program ofN. Indiana Legendier's League Liturgical Choir Logan Volunteers MadMacs Management Club Marketing Club Martial Arts Institute Math Club Medieval Club Mental Health Assoc. ofSt. Joe County Minority Pre-Medical Society Mishawaka Advocacy Center Mock Trial Association Model United Nations Multicultural Executive Council Muslim Students' Association NAACP National Hispaniclnstitute Native American Student Association Northeast Neighborhood Council Northern Ireland Awareness Group 

Operation Smile Parkview Juvenile Center Physical Therapy Club Physics Club Porn Pon Squad Pre-Law Society Pre-Professional Society Pre-Vet Club Psychology Club Rec Sports Recyclin' Irish Reins ofLife Right-To-Life Rowing Club Sailing Club St. Edward's Hall Players St. Joseph's Health Center-Slice ofLife Scholastic Magazine Sex Offense Services Shenanigans Ski Team Society ofAutomotive Engineers ·. Society ofHispanic Engineers Society ofWomen Engineers South Bend Comm. School Corp.-Adult Ed. Student Advocates for Inclusive Ministry Student Alumni Relations Group Student Art Forum Student Government Student Union Board Student Tutorial Education Program Students Against Drunk Driving Students Encouraging Religious Vocations Students for Environmental Action Supersibs Synchronized Swim Club TaeKwonDo Club Tau Epsilon Pi Technical Review Terra Club Toastmaster's International Trident Naval Society TroopND Voices ofFaith Gospel Choir Volleyball Club (Men's) Water Polo Women's Care Center Women's Liturgical Choir Women's Resource Center World Hunger Coalition World TaeKwonDo Federation Wrestling Club WSND-FM WVFI-AM YWCA ofSt. Joseph County 
.. 
.. 

-
Sponsored by: Student Activities, Rec Sports, and the Center for Social Concerns 



page 26 Tuesday, August 22, 1995 
-
~ 
~ 
~ ., 
t • 
Moss 
continued from page 28 
But in a way, it is understandable that Moss could not get the application in on time. He had other things on his mind. 
Like a pending conviction and prison sentence. 
Last March, Moss was involved in a racially motivated fight at DuPont (W.Va.) High School and was charged with malicious wounding two days later. 
The injured student, Roy Johnson, spent several days in the hospital with damage to his head, kidney, and spleen. 
Moss was summarily expelled from DuPont and was forced to transfer to Cabell Alternative School with two months of school left in order to receive his diploma. 
·Three · weeks ago, Moss pleaded guilty to misdemeanor battery charges and was sen­tenced to 30 days in the South Central Regional Jail in Charleston. 
He then proceeded to pro­claim his intention to play for Florida State. 
And to make sure the recruit did not get to school late, the judge decided to allow Moss to serve the first three days of his sentence in the beginning of August. 
He has the next 18 months to serve the remaining 27 days of his sentence. 
The incident, however, played no part in Notre Dame's decision to reject him. 
"We were aware of the inci­dent, but we were confronted with his application before the legal issue was resolved," Kooney continued. "We had to make a decision on the application before the legal issue was resolved." 
But it did not stop Florida State from admitting him. And it only fuels the criminal repu­tation that surrounds the Seminoles, starting with the Foot Locker shopping spree tWo years ago. 
Also on the casualty list was James Jackson, a running back from Belle Glade, Fla. Though he did not beat anyone up or turn his application in late, he did not meet the academic requirements of the university. 
"James J.ackson was characterized as student who was improving in high school," Rooney said. "We told the coaches that we would accept his application if he improved hjs grades and test scores. But he did not do that." 
Despite the loss of Jackson and especially Moss, Notre Dame still has what many con­sider to be the number one recruiting class in the nation, barely above Florida State. 
~----------~~~--~--~~------~ 

TAI{E THE 
•
•
•
• FOR THE FRESH
•
• 
wn~~ 

©ff ®illl 
ffil®V©If~~ 
Daily Lunch Specials 4 TV Screens 


IIDmrrlt~ 

AsK AsouT OuR WALL OF FLAME 
838 University Center 6502 Grape Road (between Service Merchandise & Best Buy) Phone 273-0088 


Rangers destroy Twins 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas 
Juan Gonzalez hit a grand slam and an RBI single during an 11-run first inning that included three homers for the Texas Rangers against the Minnesota Twins on Monday night. 
Gonzalez's five RBis in an inning was one short of the major league mark accom­plished 11 times, most recently by Boston's Carlos Quintana in 

Happy Belated Birthday Scott! 

S/lB/95 
Good luck in 
•

sen1or year. 
Love, Mom, Dad, Monica & Carin 

WeeklySpecials

Monday 25¢ Wings & Dollar Domestic Beverage Tuesday Any Beverage Pitcher $4 Wednesday Beverage Pitchers $3 Thursday Feast for Four 
$1995 
•50 Wings 
•Curly Fries 
•Pitcher of Domestic Beverage or Soda 


START YOUR
•

• SEMESTER
•

• OFF WITH AN
•
•• ACE! 
1991. 
Rusty Greer had a three-run homer and Benji Gil hit a solo shot as the Rangers sent 15 

.batters to the plate against rookie pitchers Scott Klingenbeck and reliever Oscar Munoz. 
On Sunday, Texas scored six runs in the first inning in beat­ing Chicago 6-4. 
The 11 runs tied a Twins' mark for most allowed in an inning. 



.. f\,., T.IAN~ ~" F·... -e,......~., l.\•va f~,., ~"'" 1,.1&1l4 fuo'f~ON" "I IJ.jor<QU lr -~j!~V~C-· f\'f. \)f"OEII.~TANOS 
\ \HE TEll"' 
DILBERT 
IT'5 A.f"\f>.ZING HOW r-'\UCH WE'VE 
CHA-NGED SINCE.. 
PREHISTORIC 
Tli"\ES 
) 
CROSSWORD 
l}JEL<om£. To CzEC.>I 12.£pu6c•C.! Et<..1•'1 V·~ ,,. 1 't>cE~E 1 \\A•£ ('1\'1 ":)o<oi.S I 
J 
A WIC.K . l'M 
Sf>-'liNG-1>.\.L I'll'{ 
EAR WAX -ro M!>.'l(t. 1>. CANDLE . 
:II 
0 OUR A.~CESTORS J"UST 
(J SAT AROUND I.N CAVESj GRUNTING fl..ND DRAWING ! ON TI-\E WA.LL. ~ 
I ~ 

ACROSS 28 Eskimos' region 53 Legendary deejay 
is looking for people to
29 Notice

1 Solon, e.g. 33 Bing Crosby #1 
58 "Rock and Roll, 5 Galvanometers 

Hoochie-"
hitmeasure them 

assist with daily
35 Officer-to-be 511 16th-century11 Turkish bigwig violin31 Scot's yes 14 Quark's place 38 "I've Got-in 60 Verdi villain 

production of the paper.
15 Sir's opposite Kalamazoo" &1 Valued fur 
18 At full speed, as 311 BMW's 535i, &2 Beam fastener a ship 
e.g. &3 Till bills 

n Burglarize 40 Gunslinger's 18 Forearm bone command 84 Poet Sexton 
If you have experience
41 Medic &5Gawk

111 Concerto movement 42 South Pacific 88 Hatching site 
kingdom20 "What's more 

with desktop publishing 
&7 "Omigodl"

.. 
43 Years and years 

21 Dannay-Lee 44 Not mono 
DOWN 

(or if you want some)
sleuth 48 Nail polish 
23 Knock down a 48A Guthrie 1 Dieter's meal 
notch so Video-store 2Do penance 
submit a resume or
25Package-section 
3 Old Saturday Review humorist 

statement of intent to
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4 Paramedic: Abbr. 

Jackie Moser.

s Rabbit's foot, 24 Kind of hygiene 
e.g. 27 PC pic
a Sears locale 28 Beg
7 Glass square 30 "Nightingale"8 Brainy 
singerII Inlaid floor 
31 "Sleepless in 10 Love affairs Seattle" co-star 11 Of sound mind 32 Evergreens 
12 Trapper's 33 Hires rival ware 
34 "-Plenty o' 


13 Before long Nuttin'" 21 Emulate Durer 3& College V.I.P. 22 Alpine song 39 Dough 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
COULD I M"-1(£ A SET OF CRA'loNS P 
I 
~~~ 
); 
.......ll.. 
! .. ~ 
i( 
I c 
l 


"Check and see If the stinger Is still In mel" 
J 
SCOTT ADAMS 

Hey 
Freshmen! 
The Observer 
40 Have an opinion 52 Hooked up, as 42 Home wrecker oxen · 431n a frenzy 53 Part of V.F.W. 
54 Neglect45 Rbof support 55 Igneous flow 47 Greet brazenly 58 Mrs. Jetson 

Call me at 
49 Bermuda, for 57 Years and years one &1 Fannie­

1-5303 or 4-1266 
51 Golfer Caponi (investment) 

with questions 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $40 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City--------State _____ Zip_______ 
• 
• 

-
... 

-
.. 
• 


SPORTS 
page 28 Tuesday, August 22, 1995 
• SUMMER NEWS 

Controversy surrounds Golden Dome 
Irish football recruits Moss, Jackson rejected by University Admissions 
By MIKE NORBUT rather late," Notre Dame Director of Sports Editor Admissions Kevin Rooney said. "The content of it would not have been 
The University of Notre Dame 
acceptable for any student." Admissions Office received a record 
Those letter of intent signees who did 9-,999 applications for the class of 1999. 
not apply initially were asked to return If only Randy Moss had gotten his in 
their application by the end of February. on time. Then a real milestone would 
Moss' application arrived in South Bend have been reached. 
in the beginning of June. Moss, the Belle, W.Va. native and 
But being late is nothing new for the most highly touted recruit in the coun­
West Virginia Player of the Year. He try, did not meet the university's acade­
was also a day late in signing his letter mic requirements, and was therefore 
of intent to attend Notre Dame. refused entrance into Notre Dame. "Randy Moss filed an application 
see MOSS I page 26 
•

BSI 

Black out as assistant basketball coach after incident of domestic violence 
By TIM SEYMOUR volving his fiancee, Stacy L. Frick. Associate Spores Editor Between Oct. 30, 1994 and May 7, 1995 South Bend police were called to The Notre Dame men's basketball 
the couples' home five separate times. team will enter the much anticipated 
On the day following his resignation,challenge of their inaugural season in 
police were again called to the Black the Big East conference under a 
household, this time arresting Frick revamped coaching staff, following the 
after assessing the damage inside the May 29th resignation of assistant 
house. Jimmy Black and the June 6th appoint­
In a statement issued with his resig­ment of former NBA player Terry Tyler. 
nation, Black held that "many of the Black, who was an assistant to head 
allegations made against me are not coach John MacLeod for four years, 
true," but admitted that "there is a ker­offered his resignation amidst numer­ous allegations of domestic violence in-
see BlACK/ page23 
Notre Dame goes through two-a-days at Culver Military Academy 
By TIM SHERMAN Associate Spores Editor 
Every summer, like clockwork, eager campers all across the country pile into small, cramped yellow school buses and head off to camp. Usually the destina­tion is a wooded spot somewhere off in the middle of nowhere with nothing attractive except a lake. The accommo­dations are cramped and hot, the food less than desirable and the sing-alongs 

-
.. 
-
Football 

... 
vs. Northwestern September 2, 1:30 EST 
Volleyball 

cornier than an Indiana plain. It's an American tradition. 
This summer, it became a part of the Irish tradition. All except the sing­alongs. 
But to the Notre Dame football team, the week of practice spent at the Culver Military Academy was far from your typ­ical summer camp. It was more along the lines of boot camp. 
"There was a lake but Culver wasn't too much like summer camp," junior 
fullback Marc Edwards said. "It was more along the lines of getting back to the basics." 
Basic training. 

In an effort to bring the club closer together by eliminating distractions, Irish coach Lou Holtz arranged for the entire Irish fo~Ura:i}-~eration to ~ 1i'rt)ved forty-five miles south to Culver Military Academy for nine days of intense practice. It was not an easy move. 
Holtz has attempted to arrange such a camp in previous years, but there always seemed t.o be some stumbling block in the way of logistics. This summer, though, the Notre Dame athletic department man­aged to organize the 175 person (105 players) and equipment move. Going 6­5-1 for the 1994 season maybe gave the little extra 
see CULVER I page 24 
vs. Northwestern September 1, 8 p.m. vs. USC September 2, 8 p.m. 
Men's Soccer at St. Louis August 26 (Exhibition) 

• Miami not as tough as in years pastWomen's Soccer 
see page 18

vs. Providence September 2, 10 a.m. vs. Sr. John's September 3, Noon 
• Husker hopes centered on Graham 
Cross Country 
see page 17 at Ohio State September 15 
• Major league baseball coverage 
see page 19 






