
Tuesday, August 29, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No.7 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Shuttle free for ND, small cost for SMC 
By JESSICA BATILE 
News Writer 
When was the last time you were faced with riding the shuttle without quarters and worried about facing the dri­ver? 
Notre Dame students no longer need to consider this a problem. 
"They just flash their IDs and get to ride," said Joe Cassidy, director of student affairs at Notre Dame. 
However, Saint Mary's stu­dents will continue to pay for shuttle rides. 
United Limo does not receive any of the funds deposited in the change collector. A total of seven to eight thousand dollars goes to both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's equally. 
The student governments from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's had to decide whether the money from the shuttle was significant enough to continue requesting a quar­ter to ride. Notre Dame opted to discontinue the funds. 
"There are several reasons why we chose not to have our students pay to ride the shuttle. Safety was the main one," Cas­sidy said. "Students' safety is more important than the quar­ter to ride." 
Cassidy said that he had heard of students walking home because they didn't have the money to get home. 
Cassidy also said that riding the shuttle free of charge might foster more relations between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. Also, people would be more inclined to get involved with clubs at either schools. 
"More relations between the schools is more important than the quarter," Cassidy said. 
"A quarter isn't going to keep someone from coming over to Saint Mary's or us from 
see SHUTTLE/ page 3 
By AMY SCHMIDT 
Assistant News Editor 
The option of having cable access in dorm rooms across the Notre Dame campus may be more complicated 
than was previously thought, according to Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for student affairs. 
K i r k 
addressed Kirk the cable is­sue at the first Campus Life Council (CLC) meeting of the 1995-96 school year which was held yesterday. 
"It (cable) is not as inexpen­sive as was first thought," said Kirk. 
However, Kirk said that the new dorms which are under construction will be equipped with cable-accommodating conduits. 

Morrissey remembers resident killed in crash 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
The residents of Morrissey Manor and the Notre Dame community as a whole suf­fered a great loss on Wednesday, July 26 when Brian Hederman died in a car accident. 
Brian had just finished his first year at Notre Hederman Dame and was eagerly anticipating re­turning when the accident took his life. He and two friends were going out to rent a video when the driver lost control of the car on a turn and crashed into a tree. 


The accident was caused by excessive speeds, but was not related to alcohol. Brian fell into a coma and died the following day without ever regaining consciousness. 
The other two passengers escaped without serious injuries. 
Brian was a person who truly loved life, according to Joe Ross, Rector of Morrissey Hall. 
"He loved his friends and everything about Notre Dame. If Brian had a choice of study­ing or spending time with his friends, he always picked his friends," said Ross . 
What Ross remembers most about Brian is that he was a very "hang around kind of guy. He was the type of per­son who was always around to watch a movie or to just sit on a couch and talk. He goofed around a lot, but underneath he had a serious temperament, and it was very easy to get into deep conver­sations with him." 
Student Body President Jonathan Patrick also named the top three issues which the CLC will address this year: pric­ing for the use of on-campus facilities for dances, a student­
G.A. ticket exchange, and con­struction plans for the new Rec Sports Building. 
Closely linked with the avail­ability of campus facilities is the creation of a centralized campus calendar. 
Patrick said that he hopes that such a calendar will lessen the confusion that often sur­rounds scheduling conflicts among dorms and organi­zations. 
The CLC will also follow up on old business that was pro­posed last year. Patrick pro­posed improvement of the fac­ulty-student advising system that exists at Notre Dame. 
"Some students don't know faculty members that well or where to go when they need recommendations," Patrick said. 
One of Brian's favorite places to spend time at was the grotto and he loved the crucifix sculpted by Ivan Mestrovic which hangs in the Morrissey chapel, according to Ross. 
"Brian had a real spiritual hunger. He was not a pious worshipper, but that was one part of his life that he wanted to get more out of. He loved the crucifix in our chapel because he was struck by the fact that you cannot tell if Jesus' eyes are open or shut," said Ross. 
Brian was very involved in all the activities at Morrissey Hall and was often found sit­ting on the bench outside the Manor, with his trademark Notre Dame baseball cap on, ready to talk to anyone. 
The loss of Brian will be felt by all those who knew him, for he had a special way of touching people. 
"He was very attentive to people, and in all his many talents, his caring side showed through," said Ross. 
Brian's death is mourned by his younger brothers, Billy and Kevin, his sister Eileen and his parents. The funeral was held on July 29 at Saint Michael Church in Annandale, Virginia, and was attended by hundreds of friends and fami­ly. 
The residents of Morrissey intend on planting a tree in front of the hall in memory of Brian, and also plan on attaching a plaque to the bench where Brian spent much of his time. 
A memorial mass will be held at the chapel in Morrissey on Wednesday evening at 6 pm, followed by a dinner in the basement. Ross invites everyone to come to 
see LOSS/ page 3 

Patrick and the CLC also ad­dressed the possibility of a van system that would provide transportation for student or­ganizations. 
"At most schools there is a motor pool where you can rent a vehicle when needed," Patrick said. 
Patrick then discussed the re­sults of the Experiential Learn­ing Program which was piloted this year. 
Named Campus Community Introductions, the program attracted over 25 percent of the freshman class. 
"This is a very important is­sue for student government this year," said Patrick. 
The CLC also plans to address the following issues in subse­quent meetings: 
• the du Lac revision process 

• 
a new meal card system which would be valid in the Huddle and other campus loca­tions 

• 
the continuing expansion of study space across campus. 



-·­

.. 
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, August 29, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Chemical and Chase merge in largest bank deal in U.S. 
NEW YORK Chase Manhattan Corp. and Chemical Banking Corp. joined the merger mania 
sweeping the industry and announced a 
lqQCorl>~.and ChaSe Manhattan Corp. at aglance:
... ·..;,.: ......,.::..·.· 

Mike D, 


or not 
Mike D ... 
Why can't some rap­pers choose decent nick­names? Some give themselves names like "Snow," "Vanilla Ice," and "Chalk boy." These rappers might as well name themselves "Just to Reiterate, I Am, in 
jenny Shank
Fact, White." Anyone 
Design Editor

who can't tell that these rappers are white by their lyrics alone (e.g. Vanilla's "Bum rush the speakers that boom/ I'm killin' your brain like a poisonous mushroom.") probably doesn't have much of a pulse. 
Apparently, these rappers are missing the gene that gives a blessed few the ability to think of a cool nickname, like Snoop Doggy Dogg, Coolio, Flavor Flav, or Bob. They probably would have been better off if they had just changed their names to unpro­nounceable symbols, like that guy, The Artist 'Formerly· Known As. 
At least used music stores will give you a few dollars for Symbol Boy's old CDs, howev­er, anyone who was young and foolish enough to buy a Vanilla Ice or Snow CD has probably discovered by now that when they try to trade them in, they are mercilessly mocked by music store employees, and some­times even maimed by them ... or so I've heard. 
Vanilla Ice and Snow should learn from the examples of members of groups like the Beastie Boys, who resisted naming them­selves such titles as"Cauliflower," "Ivory Soap," and "White Out," and so have achieved success that their poorly named counterparts can only dream of as they flip hamburgers and wait for the royalties from the new "Totally 90's: Best ofWhite Rap" compilation to roll in. 
I kind of feel sorry for that Beastie Boy, Mike D, though. Apparently, he couldn't think of much of a nickname for himself before the nickname deadline came up. I can imagine a confused and desperate Mike D tossing and turning the night before he was supposed to decide on his nickname. Suddenly; the phone rings. It's his mother, Mrs. D. (Hey, is she in those Sunny Delight commercials?) 
"Hello Michael, How are you?" 
"Well Mom, I'm kind ofhaving trouble 
thinking ofa nickname. • 

"Why, you have a fine name alreadyr 
"Yeah. Mom. but I'm going to be a rap star. 
and there just aren't enough words that 
rhyme with Michael for me to be able to pro­
duce a sufficient volume ofself-glorifying 
lyrics. n 

"Oh dear. Well, don't get your knickers in 
a twist. How about Mike? That's a nice. 
respectable nickname for a Michael. • 
"Yeah. but it's kind of. .. plain." 
"Well. do something really radical and use only the first initial ofyour last name. Then you won't be confused with that Mike Bolton fellow.· 
"Good idea. But Mike D? What will the 
guys think?" 

"Well dear, no matter what they think. 
you'll always be the illest in my book. Now. 
would you and your little friends like me to 
bring you some Sunny Delight?" 
"Sunny.D! That's cool! Thanks Mrs. Dr 
"Any time, G Money. Say. have you ever 
considered calling yourself 'Potato Flake?'" 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 

The Accu-Weather<~~> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Aug. 29.
Tuesday, Aug. 29 Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

"T""T'" ........... 

$10 billion deal Monday that will create the biggest bank in the nation. 
Under the proposed merger, the new bank will have 25 million customers nationwide and rank third in mortgage lending and fourth in credit cards. 
With $297 billion in assets, it will out­strip Citicorp, now the largest U.S. bank with $257 billion in assets. It also will become the world's 18th-largest bank and mark the first time a U.S. bank has made the world's Top 20 list since 1986. 
The new company will retain the Chase Manhattan name long associated with the Rockefeller family and its vast global operations. 
"We are seizing upon a truly unparal­leled opportunity to create a premier global financial services company," said Walter Shipley, chairman and chief exec­utive at Chemical. 
t!~ 

1994 Net Income: $1.2 billion Employees: 33,535 Branches: 324 
Source: company reports 
New Chase Manhattan Corp. Rank: Largest U.S. bank Assets: $297 Billion Employees: 75,000, but the companies say about 12,000 positions will be eliminated as a result of the merger. Ranking in key businesses: 
:; No. 1 in mortgage servicing, including 1 collecting payments and foreclosing; global loan syndication, in which the 
-~ bank puts together financing for major 
! borrowers; global custody, or 
securities record-keeping; and trading revenue. No. 3 in home lending. No. 4 in credit cards. 
AP 
Clinton family camps out 
WYOMING 
The lodgepole pines pointed toward the topmost spires of the Tetons on Monday as President Clinton led a 
1" quiet hike through Cascade Canyon fol­lowed by security agents, aides and a pack of reporters. The president and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, had spent the night in sleeping bags camped out in a remote area of a near­by ranch. And as he trudged along the hiking trail some­one asked, "Are you tired?" "No! Invigorated!" the president replied with emphasis. Clinton's motorcade of vans reached the shore of Jenny Lake inside this national park and he clambered into a motorlaunch and headed toward the Cascade Canyon trailhead across the water. There were many other hikers along the trail, hikers who did not come equipped with motorcades, security details and instant global communications. What they saw was the Clintons preceded and sometimes flanked by Secret Service agents. The party included the president's deputy White House counsel, Bruce Lindsey, and Mrs. Clinton's personal aide, Kelly Craighead. Clinton's doctor was in the group of hikers as were the technicians that allow the president to talk to world leaders, even while walking at the bottom of a mountain canyon. 
Dog-eating reptile is collared 
PENSACOLA, Fla. 
Rufus Godwin learned the fate of his missing hunting dog Flojo when a 500-pound alligator coughed up the animal's electronic tracking collar. Then, when trappers slit open the gator's belly, they found the tags and collars of six more hunting hounds. For the past 20 years, hunt­ing dogs have been disappearing in the Blackwater River State Forest. Their owners, members of the Blackwater River and Santa Rosa fox hunting associations, thought people were stealing them. The thief, it turns out, was the gator, which had turned a game trail into his private diner, grabbing dogs as they ran across Coldwater Creek in pursuit of game. Their barking apparently was his din­ner bell. Godwin had set Flojo, a $5,000 Walker fox­hunting hound, loose in the forest about 45 miles north­east of Pensacola. The last he heard of her was her bark as she chased an animal, probably a deer. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Two states mop up after floods 
The Carolinas mopped up, scraped up mud and chased out wildlife Monday after a weekend of flooding caused by the leftovers of Tropical Storm Jerry in which at least seven people drowned. Hundreds of people had been forced to evacuate after the region was swamped by as much as 15 inches of rain. And while streams receded Monday in the foothills and mountains, rising rivers caused new flooding in low-lying areas down­stream. South Carolina's Emergency Preparedness Division said about 100 homes were damaged by water in northwestern South Carolina. Gov. David Beasley flew over the area and said most.of the affected homes had no flood insurance because flooding is more prevalent along the coast. "It could've been worse. But, it was bad enough as it was," Beasley said. He said the damage did not appear to warrant a federal disaster declaration. One of those without flood insurance was Helen Owens, 62, whose mobile home sits just a few yards from the Saluda River. On Monday, a couch still bobbed in the water inside her home. "Everything is gone," said Ms. Owens' son, Dennis, who helped her out by boat Sunday morning. "We were standing in water about knee-deep. We put everything up as high as we could get it, and that was it." Northwestern South Carolina got the heaviest rain, with 15 inches over the weekend at the Greenville­Spartanburg airport, the National Weather Service said. 
Calvin Klein pulls teen ads 
NEW YORK 
Something apparently does come between Calvin Klein and his new jeans ads: public pressure. The designer announced Monday he has pulled the plug on an advertising campaign featuring teen-age models in provocative poses. Critics had branded the ad campaign for CK Calvin Klein jeans "kiddie porn" and called for a boycott of all Calvin Klein products. Because the ads were "misunderstood by some" and "because we take our responsibility to those young people so seriously," Calvin Klein Inc. said in a full-page advertisement in Monday's New York Times, "We will cease running the remainder of this campaign as soon as possible." The campaign -run on billboards, buses and television ­was supposed to convey the idea that today's teen-agers "have a real strength of character and independence," the company said. 
News Amy Schmidt Deborah Schultz Sports Tim Sherman Production Tara Grieshop Jackie Moser 
Lab Tech Michael Hungeling Viewpoint Kristen Daile Mary Dickinson Victoria Pratte Meaghan Smith Graphics Brian Blank 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxeept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduecion rights are reserved. 
FRONTS: 
~ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu·Woathor, Inc. 
Hi m &'S1 [Til 0 ~ § i) !:J. u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORAIS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
w. AuodiledPrrJa 

Atlanta 93 68 Dallas 98 76 New Orleans 95 76 Bahlmore 90 65 Denver 88 60 New York 84 67 Boston n 60 Los Angeles 93 70 Philadelphia 88 66 Chicago 92 71 Miami 94 79 Phoenix 106 
84 Columbus 90 67 Minneapolis 86 70 St. Louis 95 
74 
Tuesday, August 29, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 
~-----------­
FDA okays thalidomide for patients 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Thalidomide, the tranquiliz­er that caused birth defects throughout Europe in the 1950s, will be offered on an experimental basis to American AIDS patients suf­fering wasting, the drug's maker announced Monday. 
The special "expanded ac­cess" program, approved by the Food and Drug Administration, represents the broadest use of thalidomide ever allowed in this country. 
Celgene Corp. is conducting clinical trials to see if its brand of thalidomide, called Synovir, counteracts the wasting, or se­vere weight loss, that plagues 150,000 AIDS patients. 
There is little proof yet that it works. But two other wast­ing therapies are only moder­ately effective, so some patients who don't meet the strict criteria for the Synovir clinical studies have demand­ed the drug. 
and students, in the form of small groups, commented of the plans. many of which were incorporated into the final de­signs. 
Until late November, report­ed Mike Smith, demolition will be the only construction. However, in a couple of months progress should be noticed, at which time the classical form and symmetry so often found on Notre Dame's campus will be realized for the building that should display it most. 


Switzerland to return millions to Philippines 
By BALZ BRUPPACHER 
Associated P cess 
BERN, Switzerland 

Switzerland has ordered its banks to return nearly a half­billion dollars in accounts of the late Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos to the Philippines. which says the money was plundered from the national treasury. 
But the money is to be held in an escrow account until Philip­pine courts determine who should get it -the govern­ment. the Marcos family or the 10,000 victims of Marcos' regime who were awarded $2 billion in a federal class-action lawsuit in Hawaii. 
Zurich District Attorney Peter Cosandey said Monday that he had approved the transfer of money, deeming that the con­ditions in a 1990 ruling by the Swiss supreme court had been met. 
But the two main banks hold­ing the money -Swiss Bank Corp. and Credit Suisse -said they would appeal the decision, asking that a transfer be delayed until the courts decide who should get the money. 
They fear that even if they turn money over to the Philip­pines, they could later be or­dered to pay the plaintiffs in the U.S. lawsuit as well. 
Marcos. who ruled the Philippines from 1965 to 1986 -the last 14 years of that un­der martial law -died in exile in Hawaii in 1989, leaving Swiss accounts that the Philip­pines initially claimed totaled $15 billion. 
Sources close to the case. who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the amount in question now is about $47 5 million. 
That includes only the ac­counts of Marcos and his widow, and none of the deposits made by his entourage. 
It is rare for countries to re­cover money from deposed leaders' Swiss bank accounts. Revolutionary Iran never touched the assets of the exiled shah; Romania never found the accounts of slain President Nicolae Ceausescu; Ethiopia never got a dime from deposed Emperor Haile Selassie. 
Mali, Haiti, Somalia, Paraguay, Panama, Nicaragua and the Central African Repub­lic have all tried to probe Swiss banks for clues to suspected treasure, but their efforts have all failed. 
The plaintiffs in the U.S. class-action lawsuit said a transfer of the Marcos money to the Philippines could make it harder for them to collect com­pensation because the Philip­pine government also claims the money. 
"They made it hard for us to get the money from Switzer­land, ... (and) they will make it harder for us once the money is here," said Mari Enriquez, leader of a group of former de­tainees who were among the plaintiffs. 
The Marcos family, which has fought to avoid paying the set­tlement, applauded the deci­sion to transfer the money. 


Shuttle 
continued from page 1 
going to Notre Dame," said Georgeanna Rosenbush, direc­tor of student activities at Saint Mary's. "No one has ever been turned down because they didn't have the change." 
The revenue from the shuttle would come out of student fees, and Saint Mary's doesn't have the money for student activities that Notre Dame does. "Seven thousand dollars is a Jot of money to cut from the budget for student activi­
• SECURITY BEAT FRI. AUG. 25 
9:55 a.m. A University employee re· ported vandalism to his vehicle while parked In the A01 lot. 
12:49 p.m. A St. Edward's Hall resl· dent reported the theft of his wallet from his room. 
1:41 p.m. A Pasquerllla East resident reported receiving a harassing telephone call. 
9:06 p.m. A Flenner Hall resident re· ported the theft of money from his un· locked room. 
SAT.AUG.26 
11 :37 a.m. A visitor reported vandalism to his vehicle while parked In the Morris 
Loss 
continued from page 1 
share stories if they feel com­fortable, or simply to listen to others. 
Donations are being accepted for the Brian W. llederman Memorial Scholarship Fund at: 
Office of Planned Giving 
University of Notre Dame 
212 Main Building 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 ties." said Rosenbush. 
"The quarter is not back­breaking to pay. I don't think a quarter was inhibiting for people," said Rosenbush. 
However, students expressed concerns over the shuttle fare. 
"It is hard to always be wor­ried about a quarter to ride the shuttle," said Jill Embry, a sophomore at Saint Mary's. 
"It should be part of our tu­ition. We pay enough," said Saint Mary's student, Leah Brubaker. 
The shuttle will continue to run, quarters or no quarters, and Saint Mary's students will continue paying to ride. 
Inn guest lot. ,,,,,, 
2:28 p.m. A Fischer Graduate resident reported the theft of his bike from 
outside of his apartment. The bike was un at the time of the theft. '!lfii' 
7:18 p.m. A Zahm resident reported the theft of his bike from the Zahm hall bike rack. 
SUN. AUG. 28 Ath 
3:35 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident re" ' ported the theft of his bike from the Zahm Hall bike rack. 
7:53 p.m. A Pasquerllla East resldim1 reported the theft of her bike from the Pasquerllla East bike rack. , 
7:59 p.m. A Pangborn Hal_l resident"" reported the theft of her bike from the Pangbom Hall bike rack. 


Change 
continued from page 1 
were not in sync with class­room use. 
Although Professor Smith carried the bulk of the architectural responsibility, others did play a role in the plan-the architecture students themselves. 
According to Mike Smith, re­view sessions were held at which designs were presented, 
4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE FOR DELIVERY 



r ----------,
$5 DEAL
I I 
Any Large 14" Pizza Only $5 
I I
The Best Pizza at the Best Price Call1-6902
I -1I COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95
1----------­
$10 DEAL
I I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas 
I I
and a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10 Call1-6902
I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95

L .J 
r I  --------­$4 DEAL  -, I  
I  Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4 Now, That's a Deal!  I  
I  Call1-6902 COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95  I-1 

I----------­
DOUBLE DEAL
I I 
You get 2 Large 14" 1 item 
I I
Pizzas for Only $9 Cal/1-6902

I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95

L .J 
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 

·---·-----~---~---··------~--------------·-------­
page4 

Immigrants at highest percentage since WWII 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Illustrators Daily Cartoonist Weekly Political Cartoonist 
Contact Garrett Gray @ x1786 for more information. 

INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
.· SOUTI-I BEND · 
CONTU«<TNGEDUCATION 
More than 200 classes in professiottal and personal development 
• Computers • Purdue Statewide Technology • • Business Management • Small Business • Supervision • • Communications • Languages • Allied Health • • Certified Financial Planner • CEBS • Human Resources • • Accounting • Customer Service • Paralegal Studies • • Purchasing Management • Small Manufacturing • • Production & Inventory Management • • Quality Management • Safety & Health Management • • Real Estate • Insurance • Montessori Education • • Early Childhood • Youth Programs • College Proficiency • LSAT, GRE, GMAT Reviews • • Personal Finance • Personal Enrichment • Recreation • 
Classes begin Sept. 5 C~ll for your free catalog .. \231-4261 
' . ~ \' .'~ 


The Observer/Angela Addington 

Dorm Sweet Dorm! 

Lechters University Park Mall location displays how an ideal dorm room should look. 
LAST CHANCE! 

FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1996-97 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational 
meeting THURSDAY, AUGUST 31 -7:00 p.m. 131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 
Right about here ... 


LaFortune Open House Thursday, August 31 7 pm -10 pm 
• vicle'lJ' karaoke 
• FR.ll Tarot c.artlreatlingB ana c.aric.atureB 
• the year8 firBf Ac.ouBtic. Cafe ._, 
• raflles, givealiJa!JB inGiutfing airline tiG/cetB, CD pfayerB, GOnGerf fiGfcef81 anamuGh, muGh more 
PRIZES DONATED BY: American Airlines 

AA~THONY TRAVEL. INC. 
Anthony Travel Huddle 

Americanfaf 
Society Bank 

AmericanAirlines•
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Student Activities Sponsored by: Student Business Board Student Union Board and Student Activities Student Union Board 
By MARCY GORDON 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

U.S. residents who were born in another country made up 8. 7 percent of the population last year, the highest proportion of immigrants since World War II, a new Census Bureau study shows. 
That means 22.6 million peo­ple-nearly one in 11 U.S. res­idents -were foreign-born, and one-third of them lived in California, according to the study released Monday. One­fifth of the immigrants, or 4.5 million people, arrived here in the last five years. 
The 8. 7 immigrant percent­age of the population is up from 
7.9 percent in 1990 and nearly double the 1970 level of 4.8 percent. 
The census findings, which cover legal and illegal immi­grants, come amid fierce de­bate over immigration policies, both in Congress and among Republican presidential hope­fuls. Congress is considering a number of bills that would cap rates of legal immigration and seek to slow illegal immigra­tion. 
More than 4 million people are believed to be in the United States illegally, with some esti­mates reaching 5.4 million. 
About 1 million people were admitted to the country legally in 1994. 
The Clinton administration is planning to admit 20,000 fewer refugees next year -an 18 percent reduction in refugee admissions -despite a steady increase in the number of peo­ple forced to flee their homes because of war, famine or other causes. 
California Gov. Pete Wilson, formally kicking off his GOP presidential campaign Monday, denounced illegal immigration as an example of unfair bur­dens borne by law-abiding Americans, a theme that helped him win re-election as governor last year. 
Five states with large immi­grant populations -Arizona, California, Florida, New Jersey and Texas -have sued the federal government, accusing it of not enforcing U.S. borders and seeking reimbursement for education, health care and prison beds used by hundreds of thousands of illegal immi­grants. 
Federal judges have dis­missed the lawsuits by Califor­nia, Florida and Texas. 
California officials have said they planned to appeal the rul­ing, and similar appeals could be made by Florida and Texas. 
Tuesday, Augp<t 29, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

Wilson officially announces bid Mortar shell attack 
By RITA BEAMISH Associated Press 
NEW YORK With the Statue of Liberty as 
a. backdrop, California Gov. Pete Wilson formally entered the GOP presidential race Monday with a dark portrait of a federal government "out of step, out of touch and out of control." 
Wilson pledged to restore fairness to a nation that he said has slipped into decline since his immigrant grandparents came from Ireland at the turn of the century. He said he would keep faith with Ameri­cans who "work hard, pay their taxes and raise their children to obey the Jaw." 
The famous statue has long been a beacon to immigrants, but Wilson used it as a symbol of his fight against illegal immi­gration, saying there is a "right way to come to America and a wrong way." 
Wilson sought to portray him­self as an activist governor who gets things done while Republi­can rivals merely debate the is­sues. He criticized affirmative action programs and expansion of welfare -central themes, along with crime, of his effort to tap into voter anger and fear. 

..fGov. Pete Wllaon, Ctllfomla: Supportsabortion rights, announced hla candidacy 
Aug.28.

4'Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole: Officially announced his candidacy -his third .., on April1 o. · · ..fRep. Robert 
Oftk:ially announced his Apri113. 
..fSen. Richard Lugar, Indiana:· 
Olficlally announced his presidential
candidacy April19. ·· tj# 
..fSen. Arlen Specter, Pennsylvania: Favors abortion rights, announced ~h 30. 
..fAlan Keyes: Mld·level Reagan'b · 
administration State Department official 
announced March 26. 
..fPat Buchanan: Conservative , • commentator who challenged Bush In the 1992 announced March 2 . 
..fFormerTennessee Gov. Lamar 
Alexander: The Bush administration 
education secretary formally announced 
..fSen. Phil Gramm, Texas: Formally announced Feb. 24. 


Wilson accused President Clinton of blocking welfare re­form and said the president has waved a "white flag" in the war on drugs and waffled on foreign policy. 
"He can't balance our budget. He can't even secure our bor­ders," he said. 
Wilson's campaign has been slow to start, although he has announced his candidacy in several formats to reassure supporters that he is in fact in the race. 
Throat surgery and then state budget talks this summer post­poned plans for a formal kick­ofT. 
Although polls have shown him running well behind front­runner Bob Dole even in Cali­fornia, and faring poorly in the· field nationally, Wilson on Mon­day noted he has come from behind before in his long politi­cal career. Last year he over­came a 23-point deficit to beat Democrat Kathleen Brown for governor. . 
"I have every confidence we will change this again," he said. 
The Statue of Liberty provid­ed a convenient prop for his crusade against illegal immi­gration and his bid to undercut Dole's perceived stranglehold on New York. 

kills 35 in Sarajevo 
By SRECKO LATAL Associated Press 

SARAJEVO 
With hope and despair, sur­vivors crowded around casual­ty lists posted at Sarajevo hos­pitals Monday after a mortar shell sliced through a crowded market area, slaughtering at least 35 people. The carnage jeopardized new peace talks just under way. 
The Bosnian government blamed Serb gunners and sug­gested it might withdraw from U.S.-sponsored talks that start­ed in Paris on Monday unless NATO retaliated for the deadly shelling. 
The United Nations said air raids remained a possibility ­but not before it established who fired . 
Assistant Secretary of State Richard Holbrooke, the head of the U.S. mission, pledged not to let the attack derail his work. "It will only make us redouble our efforts," he said . 
Bodies, some without arms or legs, lay in pools of blood out­side the battered turn-of-the century building that houses Sarajevo's largest indoor mar­ket. 
One old man had his head split open, his motorcycle still between his legs. Some bodies fell apart as rescuers tried to load them into cars to take them to hospitals. Many of the dead were children, women or old people. 
"Oh God, isn't there someone who can help us," an un­harmed yet weeping old man pleaded at the marketplace, where policemen were placing arms and legs into plastic bags after the attack. "Isn't there someone who can finally stop this butchery and allow us to live like the rest of the world?" 
U.N. spokesmen said the shell was a 120-mm mortar fired from the south, but that a radar detection system had not picked it up and they could not immediately determine who fired it. Suspicion fell on Bosnian Serbs, who have besieged Sarajevo for 40 months and rejected previous peace efforts. 
The Bosnian army said the deadly round originated in Serb-held territory between Grbavica, a part of Sarajevo, and the suburb Lukavica. Bosnian Serbs accused the Muslim-led government of stag­ing the massacre to put pres­sure on them as the peace mis­sion got under way. 
The Bosnian Health Ministry put the toll at 35 dead and 86 wounded. 
At Kosevo, the main hospital, many people with shrapnel wounds were forced to wait outside. All nine operating the­aters were in use. 
Sarajevans rushed to the hos­pitals, looking for friends and relatives. 
Hospital officials printed two lists: One identifying the injured was posted at the main emergency unit, and one for the dead was stuck on a morgue wall. Names were added periodically. 
Although chances of success are slim, Holbrooke's mission is considered more promising than others because the battle­ground has recently shifted against the Serbs in Bosnia and Croatia, which could make them more open to compro­mise. 
As he entered a Monday night meeting with Holbrooke in Paris, President Alija Izetbe­govic of Bosnia demanded NATO airstrikes against the Serbs. 
NATO "must protect us or let us protect ourselves" he said, referring to the alliance's oppo­sition to ending an arms em­bargo against Bosnia. 
Bosnian officials had earlier suggested they might boycott the peace talks if NATO refused to strike the Serbs. 
"Are they going to stand by while we are being killed and massacred?" asked Prime Minister Haris Siljadzic. "Is Sarajevo a safe zone or a killing ghetto?" 
NATO said Aug. 1 that any attacks on Sarajevo or other areas designated as U.N.-pro­tected zones would be met with a "firm and rapid response." 
Holbrooke is scheduled to travel from Paris to Belgrade, the Serbian capital, for more talks with the Serbian presi­dent, regional power broker Slobodan Milosevic. 
The Clinton administration blamed the Serbs for the attack but did not directly threaten them with NATO bombard­ment. 

Feb. 26. ' 

Fall Break Seminars October 15-20, 1995 Experiential/Service Learning Center for Social Concerns  
APPALACHIA SEMINAR Service learning at one of eleven sites in the Appalachian region One-credit Theology A-Information meeting (optional): Tuesday, Aug 29, 7:00-7:30PM CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR Explore the cultural richness of Chicago Examines issues of diversity and related concerns One-credit Theology or Sociology Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs Information meeting: Tuesday, Aug. 29: 4:00-4:30 PM WASHINGTON SEMINAR Theme: Welfare: Private or Public Responsibility? Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Government Information meeting: Tuesday, Aug. 29: 6:30 ­7:00 PM  
Applications Available Now at the Center for Social Concerns Applications Due: Sept. 7, 1995 All Seminars Return Friday, October 20th for Weekend  







VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Tuesday, August 29, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager .......................Ryan Malayter Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ............•..................... Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoin< Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313
.• Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Pax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1®nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observet®darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Humanity His family 
I
Dear Editor: t is necessary for me to disagree with Jim Senyszyn's Letter to the Editor (The Observer, Aug. 23, 1995). His view of Jesus as "anti-family" is incorrect. 
The point Jesus was trying to make when He referred to those around Him as "brothers and mother" -seemingly in preference to his own family -and told his disciples to leave their families and follow Him, was that we should look at all humanity as our family, not just those to whom we are related by blood. 
Wars have been caused because Hitler viewed Jews as less than people, or certain Orientals have seen people of other cultures as inferior. There is dissension between racist whites and African­Americans because of these differences. Nonetheless, we are all the children of the same God! 
Jews looked upon Samaritans as inferior or different. He knew that, within the small confines of the family unit, some would believe and some would not. Still, He never meant that families are not important. He just wanted his followers to see the "bigger picture", the world as family. 
JULIE FERRARO 
Main Building 
• Two CENTS 

Interhall Football: Team players come out winners 


T
here's something in the air at Notre I played a lot of ball in high school. Dame these days. It's an indescrib­Well, maybe "played" is too strong a able, almost euphoric feeling that fol­word. I mean, practiced with the team, lows the arrival of football season. I'm got a snappy uniform with my name on not talking about the back, rode the Fighting Irish foot-bus to the games, ball, mind you. I'm and got a really awe­talking about some view of the Interhall Football. field from the side­
Bob

Dorm football is lines, but nobody one of the last really took me seri­places someone ously. Of course, you can play ball out of couldn't get cut from 
Blaskiewicz 
love for the game. the team: my senior I wish everyone class graduated fifty could play football, people, so it wasn't 
or at least be on a team. We're lucky to have such a strong interest among the student body in play­ing dorm ball, especially when we live so close the heart of "professional" colle­giate ball. On a campus where your resi­dence hall is your fraternity, Interhall sports is a great way to bring people together. 
as if the coaches had much of a choice but to accept me. Besides, coaches are always looking for another body to throw around. 
My school had a six-year program, and I played all six seasons. I attended practice faithfully, always knowing that my chances for playing were slim. It was kind of a fatalistic outlook for a football 
T
player to have, but life is not always fair, and I accepted it. In my six years, the sum total of my actual game time was a little shorter than Siskel and Ebert's review of the movie "Rudy", but despite my lack of playing time, I always felt I was contributing to the team's success. This feeling is football's greatest reward. here are no small men on a football team. I don't just mean this in terms of physical size (even though it kind of helps to be huge). It takes a lot to face your enemy, stare him in the eye, and prove that you are better than him. If you aren't ready to do that, you're gonna spend a lot of time on your back wondering what the hell happend to you. If you fail to hold your ground, it's at the expense of the team. 
Unfortunately, only eleven men are allowed on the field at a time. A lot of dedicated men stand at the side of the field at each snap of the ball. These men are no less dedicated, faithful or willing to play than the most seasoned veteran, but, of course, someone has to sit out. 
Every position on the field is a privi­lege. Regular starters might lose sight of this, but the members of the second and third strings never forget. They spend most of the week preparing the first team for their next opponent. Under the coaches' careful direction, the F-Troop gives the first string the best look they possibly can. This ensures the teams' success. And they do it anonymously, out of love of football and love of the team. 
I have a lot of respect for walk-ons and the men who never play. They play the first team five days a week, while the first string only plays against starters one afternoon a week. They do a lot for the team and never ask for any­thing in return. There's a lot to be said for that, and I think they should know it. 
Bob Blaskiewicz is a sophomore in Alumni Hall. He can be reached at Robert.J.Blaskiewicz.l@nd. edu. 
• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"you can either ~eed the 
(media) beast, or some­one else is going to feed the beast. But the beast is going to be fed." 
-Dee Dee Myers 





ACCENT
Tuesday, August 29, 1995 
page 7 

Investment strategies for the college student 
By MIKEJACCARINO 
Accent Writer 
A check from home rests atop a college student's cluttered desk, amidst a heap of old bookstore receipts and outdated assignments. Meanwhile, the student's money lies in a savings account, tiredly col­lecting the stingiest of all returns. Ask the roommate, a finance major, for advice-but his cash comfortably dwells in the pocket of a pair of beat-up jeans. 
The word "investment" tends to scare some unknowing people, as it conjures up images of hard­earned money being lost to savvy businesspeople edu­cated in the science of finance. This is not true, for amidst the screams and yells of Wall Street brokers on the floor of the exchange, the advice offered to those who will listen is that nothing is worse than a dollar simply awaiting the day it will be spent. So you listen to the guys who know and decide you'd like to try your hand at their game-but you don't really want to play. The best news? You don't have to. You don't have to have your broker's number on your Met list of friends and family to wisely invest your money. You don't have to pore over the Wall Street every day to lind a stock worth investing in. To maxi­
lize your money's potential while considering the 
e you can keep it invested and the risks you're 
ling to take, you really don't even have to know 
to play the game. 
Nancy Dolittle was a college student tired of having her money sit listlessly in a savings account. She was never very adept at handling her money, so she took a finance elective last semester in the hope of learn­ing something new. She was a waitress in a small diner off-campus and had always worked for her money, but now she wanted to know how to make her money work for her. Nancy Dolittle began to explore her financial options on February 1. 1995. She had live thousand dollars to invest. 
Nancy lived in a small farm town named Leawood Hills, nestled deep in the golden flat plains of Kansas. She knew that she would always need about $140 to fly back to Kansas City International Airport in time to make it home for mom's holiday meals, which were famous up and down the Kansas countryside. Knowing this, she left one thousand dollars in her savings account. For those seven months, Nancy received an annual rate of 3% at compound interest. This rate fluctuated, but was, on average, about 3%. She was able to maintain a checking account as well as withdraw the money at her leisure without paying any penalties. Over that time, Nancy secured a return of roughly $20 on her money. 
_Due to the relatively meager return she collected from her savings account, Nancy decided to invest another thousand dollars in a CD, or certificate of de­posit. She selected the one of the annual variety which confers a return of about 5.5% at compound interest. From her finance course, Nancy knew that she would not be permitted to access the thousand dollars, without paying severe penalties, until the year term had expired. She also knew that the inter­est rate she received the day she bought the CD was a fixed rate which would not fluctuate higher even if interest rates happened to climb. When the year term expired, Nancy expected to collect a $55 dollar return on her money. 
Of all her investment moves, Nancy had the most reservations about placing money in the stock mar­ket. Her old grandfather's eyebrows used to wrinkle and his lips would curl into a suspicious grimace at the mere mention of investment... especially the doings that took place on Wall Street. Of course, her grandfather knew only the three hundred acres of eorn fields he plowed daily and the small town live miles away he would venture to for parts when the tractor broke down. Still, Nancy was wary. She did invest a thousand dollars in blue chip stocks be­longing to the Dow Jones Industrials. These stocks generally represent quality companies, which go nei­t.ber up nor down drastically over the short term. As is almost always the case, to secure a substantial profit from blue-chip stocks, a person should allow themselves approximately a live-year holding period to give the stock time to appreciate. For short-term gains over a six-month to a year period, one would invest in growth stocks or small companies with high potential for expansion. These stocks involve a much greater risk than do blue-chip stocks. In this current financial environment, however, it was possible for Nancy to make significant gains while investing only in Dow Jones stocks. Since February, the Dow Jones Industrial Average has risen 770 points to 4600, which is a 17% increase. Some believe a fall is com­ing after this eight-month surge, as the present mar­ket situation arouses remembrances of the upward climb Wall Street experienced in 1987 in the months 
directly preceding "Black Monday", or the day the market dropped 20% before noon. To talk of the 

eerie silence that con-CJ sumed the floor on that day is still taboo for brokers. Nancy, however, listened to the words of the old exchange adage, which advises not to buck the trend; the trend is your friend. With the 17% return, she made $170 dur­ing those seven months. 
Even after her finance course, Nancy still did not completely trust her judgment for selecting stocks. Between classes, studying, and swim practice, she found that she didn't have time to check up on the stocks she had selected or to do the research neces­sary to find other ones to invest in. Nancy did know that she wouldn't have to go through either, simply by investing a thousand dollars in a no-hold mutual fund. When she placed her money in a mutual fund, she allowed financial experts to invest her money for her in stocks and other investments of their choosing. The fund's value is determined by the success of their investments. There are different types of mutual funds: rapid growth funds, Dow Jones funds, technol­ogy stock funds, and many others. Nancy bought a "no-hold" Dow Jones fund because no-hold funds don't charge the additional fee that hold funds do. The Dow Jones climbed 17% after February, as did her mutual fund, which invested in those same stocks. Nancy again made, on average, roughly $170 through her fund. Nancy placed the final thousand in a money market account at her bank. An account at a bank involves less risk than a money market fund, since your investment is protected by the FDIC up to $100,000. Nancy received 5 -5.5% on her money annually-without any risk whatsoever to her original investment. The interest rate fluctuated like a sav­ings account. She was not permitted to maintain a checking account on the money market, but was able to withdraw money from it at any time without pay­ing a penalty. Banks normally invest funds from money markets in treasury bills and low-risk stocks. Nancy made roughly $35 on her investment in seven months. 
It was generally agreed upon by the numerous finance professors interviewed for this article that a person with Nancy's amount of money or less, who does not wish to keep the money tied up for a long period of time, should invest in a money market account. The stock market by far collected the great­est returns for Nancy; however, there is also tremen­dous down-side risk involved with the purchase of stock and a basic holding time to allow for significant appreciation. A money market involves no risk up to $100,000 and can be accessed as if it were a savings account. Overall, Nancy did very well with her invest­ments. Even her grandfather, long retired from the golden wheat fields of Kansas, allowed a proud and somewhat surprised smile to appear on his face when she told him about her financial success over one of mom's famous holiday meals. 
•• MEDICAL MINUTE 


Ten steps to healthy living 
ByJOHN GALVIN 
Acq.Jnt Medic;al Correspondent 

One of the greatest changes students experience upon entering Notre Dame involves their eating habits. Eating lunch, for example, is far more than a mid-day meal; it is a time to meet friends and take a breakfroin the tedious tasks ofacademic life. Eating properly is essential for leading a healthy, strong and productive day. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's offer numerous places to ea andseveral places to work off those accumulating calories. However, not all of us have the time or motivation to seek out the perfect diet or the proper workout. Therefore. I suggest the f(}llowing ten laws to eat by: 
1,Start y-:mr day with breakfast. Breakfast fills your ·~e1llpty tank'' to get yougoing after a long night with* out food; And it can help you do better in school. Easy•to-prepare breakfasts include cold cereal with fi'i.lit and low•fat milk, whole~wheat toast with peanut butter, yogurt with fruit, whole-grain waffies or even last night's pizza. 
2. 
Get Moving. It's easy to fit physical activities into your daily routine. Walk. bike or jog to see friends. Take a 10-minute activity break every hour while you read, do homework or watch 'IV. Clinlb stairs instead of taking an escalator or elevator. 

3. 
Snack Smart. Snacks are a great way to refuel. Choose snacks from different food groups-a glass of low·fat milkand a few graham crackers. an apple or celery sticks with peanut butter and raisins or some dry cereal. If you eat smart at other meals, cookies, chips and candy are good for occasional snacking. 

4. 
Work up a sweat. Vigorous work-out.'i-when you're breathing hard and sweating-help your heart pump better, give you more energy. and help you look 


·and feel your best. Start with a warm-up that stretch­es your muscles. Include 20 minutes of aerobic activi· ty. such as running, jogging or dancing. Follow up with activities that help make you stronger, such as push·ups or liftingweights. Then cool down with more strewhing and deep breathing. 
5. Balance your food choices -don't eat too much 
. .ofo:ne thing. You don't have to give up foods like hamburgers, french fries and ke cream in order to ·eat ll.ealtbily. You just have to be smart about how often and how much of these foods you eat. Your body need.s nutrients like protein, carbohydrates, fat, and many different vitamins and minerals. such as vita­mins CandA; ir~m and calcium from a variety of f(}ods~ Balancing food choices from the Food Guide 
.·Pyramid and checking out the Nutrition Facts PS.nel 
on food labels will help you to get all these nutrients. 
· 6~ Get fit with friends. Being active is much more fun with friends. Encourage others to join you, and plan one special physical activity event, like basket· ball, tennis, racquetball. quad·football, biking or walking With a friend each day. 
7~ Eat tn()re grains, tritits and vegetables. These foods giv!'! you carbohydrates for energy. plus vita­mins. minerals and flher. Besides. they taste good!Try breads such as whole-wheat, bagels and pita. Spaghetti and oatmeal are also in the grain group. Bananas, strawberries and melons are some great­
.·.. tasting fruits.~ Try vegetables raw. on a sandwich or in ·.tJ.~lad; · ...·· $, .Jo.in Activities. Whether you take a physical edu­f.:~tion>class or do other physical activities at school, .sucb as intramural sports, structured activities are a sure way to feel good. look good and stay physically fit 
9. 
Foods aren't good or bad. A healthy eating style is like a puzzle with many parts. Each part-or food­is different. Some foods may have more fat, sugar or salt, while others may have more vitamins or fiber. There is a place for all of these foods. What makes a diet good or bad is how foods fit together. Balancing your choices is important. Fit in a higher-fat food, like pepperoni pizza, at dinner by choosing lower-fat foods at other meals. And don't forget about modera· tion. If two pieces ofpizza flU you up, don't eat a third. 

10. 
Make healthy eating and physical activities fun. Take advantage of physical activities you and your friends enjoy doing together and eat the foods you like. Be adventurous-try new sports, games and other activities, as well as.new foods. You'll grow stronger. play longer, and'look and feel better! Set realistic goals-don't try changing too much at once. 


Medical Minute appears every Tuesdy in the Accent section ofThe Observer. John Galvin is a senior English m«jor who has worked for two years as a sur­geon's assistant in a hospital. 
• I 


page 8 The Observer • SPORTS Tm·sday, August 29, 1995 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

Milwaukee ready to embrace their battling Brewers 
By ARNIE STAPLETON to Kansas City. the other contenders padded call up a handful of players added. "At the beginning of the Msociated Press And a short time later. when their payrolls with multimillion­when rosters expand Sept. 1 season, we felt good about our­Milwaukee completed its first aires such as David Cone and because they're worried about selves. But we had injury after MILWAUKEE four-game sweep of Minnesota Bobby Bonilla? things like airfare and extra injury and never put our best When the County Stadium in 12 seasons, Bud Selig's bar­The Brewers? Who are so hotel costs? players on the field at one time. crowd bellowed in the middle of gain-basement Brewers had financially strapped that they "That's right, the Milwaukee "We still have a couple of a Milwaukee-Minnesota game, pulled within a half game of the might leave town if lawmakers Brewers. Right in the thick of it injuries but for the most part
B.J. Surhoff figured the Green AL wild-card lead. don't approve a new stadium with one month to go," boasted we've got what I call our ham­
Bay Packers must have won. The Brewers? Who sat tight plan next month? closer Mike Fetters. mers in there now: B.J. Surhoff, The Texas Rangers had lost with empty pockets when all The Brewers? Who will only ''I'm not surprised," Fetters Dave Nilsson, Kevin Seitzez .." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at tbe Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC & Need 2 GA's & 3 Stud tix 4 Texas I NEED NORTHWESTERN STUD­232·2595 TICKET-MART, INC. PURDUE GA'S. game -Reggie x4297 TICKETS OR GA'S. CALL MIKE NOTICES AT 273·1718. .......................... . 
WANTED 219-422-6088. 
HOUSE FOR RENT GA'S FOR ANY/ALL NEED GA's TO ANY HOME und parents: B & B football week­2 Bedrooms for rent in home close HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. ••• FOR SALE ••• GAME!!I !I Need 1 Student Ticket for the ends, 2 miles to campus, call 219-to campus on State Rd 23. Private BUY* SELL *TRADE Four N'Westrn GA's. Together on CALL KATIE X1093 Northwestern game. Please call 277-6832 entrance & garage. Share bath and (219) 232-0058 -24 HRS. • 35-yd line. Call Bill at 291-6216. 273-5618. 
kitchen. $275.00 + 1/3 utilities. 
Leave mess.: 273-6126 SELLING MARRIED STUD TIX NEED GA OR STUDENT TICKETS I need ticket for Northwestern game HYPNOTIST -INDIVIDUALS OR BOOKLETS 232-4827 TO USC AND TEXAS HOME for my little brother. If can help call SMALL GROUPS-MORNINGS, ROOM WITH KITCHEN, UTILI· BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2or4 GAMESII WILL PAY GOOD$$$$ Keith at 3482. AFTERNOONS, EVENINGS-STOP TIES, ETC. $250/MO. CLOSE TO NO SEASON TICKETS ANY OR •••• NEED 2 BC STUDENT TIX ••• CALL CHRIS @ 239-8922 SMOKING, WEIGHT CONTROL, CAMPUS IN SAFE NEIGHBOR­ALL GAMES. OHIO.ST. Call Dave 277-4755 For sale set of married student tix PHOBIAS, ENHANCED LEARN-HOOD. CALL PAUL 232-2794. andWASHINGTON A MUST books. Call and make an offer ING, SPORTS PERFRO-PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN ....... . NEEDED-NORTHWESTERN @237-D072 MANCE, SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION, Student sub-leasing room in 2771659 I need two GA football tickets for GA'S AND STUD TIX, PLEASE MEDICAL AND DENTAL ANAES­Lafayette Square Townhomes. 1 Northwestern and for any home CALL 273-3292 DESPARATELY NEED 3 G.A. THESIA 234-2095 mile fro!Jl campus, just remodeled, I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME football games. Please call TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME 
very spacious and very nice, male GAMES.272-6306 Dawn 4990 TRADE -2 BCNandblt GAs for 2 FOR MY FAMIL Yl!! only, need to rent, 200/month. Call USC/Texas GAs-Call 219-273-$$$$$ PLEASE CALL LIZ x2776 Greg (219)-234-0985 NEED TEXAS GA'S. 1111@11@ @1@1@@ @1#$#@$$%$@ 8379
ILOST & FOUND I 

CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010, Affordable, clean, student apts. EXT. 8796. Larry needs youll OSU TIX-I need 4. Will trade 4 ·-·-··•••••••LOST -·····-·-·-Furnished studio, $235 He needs your tickets tool Purdue tix plus large sums of cash PERSONAL TWO KEYES ON RING IN Furnished 1 bedrrn, $270 Looking for Navy G.A.s and VAndy for tickets to see Irish crush STEPAN FIELD DURING THE heat & water included GAs or student tix. Buckeyes. If you can help, call $5.50 HAIRCUTS PICNIC DINNER 8/23 755 South Bend Ave -1 block from LOOKING TO BUY STUDENT Call 634-3593 if you can help him x3349. ·-·· PLEASE CALL 634-4846 ••••• N.D. Ave TICKET out. VITO'S BARBER SHOP deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 BOOKLETS. CALL JEN @ 273-!#@#$@$%#@ @#@@##@@@#I 2 f-ball tix appl's 4 Sale. Call 284-1523 UNCOLNWAY WEST 1738 5118 and leave offer. SOUTH BEND • 233-4767 
WANTED 

n d events 
rooms near nd b& b $60 WE CAN'T EXIST WITHOUT YOUI Need a fun-loving, responsible stu­219-272-9260 Need two GA's for Northwestern dent to babysit 2 children ages 5&7 My wile will kill me. Need set of so my little brothers can go to the Fight the apathy that seems to run in my Granger home 2-3 afternoons Furnished Room. Clean, attractive. Married Student tix. Brett 272-game. Willing to pay $$$$ NEED STUD TIX APPS rampant in this community of Notre 
I ~ 
a week 2-6 pm. Must have own Kitchen privileges. Quiet neighbor· 7223 Jon @ 634-1389 WILL PAY BIG$$$ Dame/Saint Mary's/Holy Cross. If transportation. Please call hood. 2 mi. to N.D. CALL 273-5295 you have a gripe, issue, concern, 277-5786. $200 per month. Call 282-2576. I need two GA's to the USC game. etc. SHARE it. Let YOUR voice be Wealthy Alum needs tix for all home My high-school friend is threatening heard. 
Roommate Wanted games. Brett272-7223 never to speak to me again unless I WANTED: Saint Mary's sports writ­For 2 bedroom apt. at 617 find some this weeki Call 4-4889 if The Observer's Viewpoint ers and photographers. You do not Portage Ave. $180/mo. plus Desperately need USC tickets!ll you can help! LOST: Two tix to Texas Game!! Department exists as a service to have to commit on a full-time basis. utilities -furnished complete 3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student Can you help me find them? you. You make the section what tt Call Caroline at with washer and dryer Please call Chris at 288-7843. I WILL PAY$$$ FOR YOUR My old NO roommate is driving out is. We need you. 284-4349 or come by room 222 in call for details 234-7388 FOOTBALL TIX APPLICATION all the way from NYC. Please help! Holy Cross Hall. need vanderbilt tickets Will pay big$$$$ Call KATY at FIGHT THE APATHY. SUBMIT! 
GA's or married student tix CHRIS 631-6696 634-4410.

FOR SALE
OFF CAMPUS? NEED MONEY? call Dan @ 273-4780 JAZZERCISE Established campus band looking Need Texas GA for Texan sis, ND 11!1! for place to play. Call Jerry x1197 1990 Honda CRX Sl Yellow 5· '94 It's her Bday. She has $$ In desperate need of 2 TEXAS GAs ITS A FUN WAY TO GET FIT & 
Speed 59K $6950 Firmlll277·9276 111111111111111111111!!111111111111111111111111!+11111111 Call Stacy x1319 for grandparents. Call Kevin x0584 STAY THAT WAY. 
1111 VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL Subway Sandwich Shops is now Waterbed super single size with Need 2 TEXAS GA's for my Aunt's I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'SI Texas Boy needs Texas GAs. Call 277-0111 FOR MORE INFO. hiring part-time Sandwich Artists. book headboard and twelve draw­1st first visit to NOI Call Mary J<ay PLEASE CALL SUZY AT X3729. Miguel at X3336. Close to campus, will work around ers. Includes black satin sheets and at X4421. KATIE, your schedule, competitive pay and bedspread with a drain and fill kit. I need 2 GA's to any game. WILL TRADE 2 NW GAs FOR 2 TX It would seem my memory is as a free sub everytime you work. Call $200.00 288-3366 need TEXAS, USC, BC tkts Tara x4508 GAs. CALL NICOLE@ 1-800-827-poor with phone #s as it is with Penny at 277·7744. Call today call Mike x4429 2637 BETW 9AM & 5PM mass times. Let me know you made and you could start tommorrow. Desk 2 drawers (1 file drawer) 4TEXASTIX it OK 273-4212 
$50 abo 273-5930 $30 per ticket Desperately need one 
I HAVE USC TIX Chris x1724 Northwestern ticket for my sister. SOT ALLY TOBER Macri's Deli in downtown South Will trade 2 GAs plus stadium park­Call Brian at x3061 Bend is now hiring for all ing pass for 4 Texas or BC GAs. PLEASE help a Senior in need! She knows more than just German. 
positions. Looking for reliable, USED LSA T BOOKS Call Matt W(312)704·7704 For ANY Vandy, USC, or Navy tix, NEED 3 NORTHWESTERN STUD. hard working people in return Are you taking the LSAT this Fall? H(312)549-0825 you will be compenSated! TICKS. MATT @288-3823 It's tough being the hottest guy on for a fun work atmosphere and I I you want to save some money . NEED STUD TICKS APPLICAT. Notre Dame's campus. flexible schedules. Apply in and buy some used LSAT study NEED 4 NORTHWESTERN GAs Nick 3372 OR WHOLE BOOKS -@ 288-3823 
• person, 2-5p.m., 214 N. Niles books call 634·3397. These Physician doing the buying-.. Get me a state trooper, please. Ave. books were used this summer, and BIG BUCKS OFFERED! Sure could use a STUD TIK BOOK. Have cash, need NW student ticket, 
know what it takes to do well Call Ryan at 233·5273. Sen. pref. Josh @ 273-2938. let's trade. Beth 2'73-2069 ND/SMC STUDENTS! · BABYSITTER NEEDED TO CARE 634-3397 *Also need BC student tix. FOR 2-AND 5-YEAR OLD IN USED LSAT BOOKS I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890 HAVE YOU EVER BEEN TURNED HOME LOCATED 10 MI. SO. OF $120 for your stud tix book, grad or In DESPARATE need of 1 student DOWN FOR CREDIT? NO. ANY BLOCK OF TIME senior preferred. ticket or GA for N-western game. NEED 1 STDNT TCK BOOK BETWEEN 9:30-5:00 MON.-FRI. THE PERFECT CARl 1965 Chi-chi @ 273-4791 Call Hank at ext. 1716 WILL PAY$-CALL ALEX 287-HAVE YOU EVER BEEN HUNTED TRANSPORTATION A MUST. HONDA CRX, BLUE, 5-SPEED, 6743 A.S.A.PI DOWN BY A BILL COLLECTOR? CALL 299-005 t. GREAT GAS, LOW MAINT. $2400 $$$Buying Ticket Applications. Call Need Student Booklets and GAs for 
CALL 271-6260 Doug at 277-7230$$$ every game. NEED 1 NORTHWESTERN HAVE YOU EVER HAD ANY TYPE $,000 FUNDRAISER Call277-4755 STUDENT OR GA TIX. CALL ALEX OF FINANCIAL PROBLEMS, AS Fraternities, Sororities & GA's for all games. Call Joel at NEED 1 Northwestern ticket. OR CHRIS 267-6743 FAR AS CREDIT CARDS ARE Student Organizations. 4-4326. Call Kathleen x2322 NEEDED: 2 GA's for USC CONCERNED? You've seen credit card call4x4876 BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC fundraisers before, but Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call I need BC GAs ... call x3975 IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO ANY 

TICKETS

you've never seen the Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m. NO ALUMNI NEEDS 2 FOOTBALL BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC OF THESE QUESTIONS, CALL Citibank fundraiser that pays SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­KRISTA AND JOEY AT 1-4540 $5.00 per application. HEYII need 4 tickets $$$$$ AL USE PAY WELL 2773097 CAMPUS ORGY Call Donna at (student or GA) for Need 4 BCtix IF YOUR BAND WILL BE PLAYING 1-800-932.0258 ext. 65. TEXAS. Call Eric @ x0669 Will trade Navy Need N-Western tix, stud or GA. THIS WEEKEND, LET THE FOLKS Qualified callers receive a (parents weekend) Call Tim@ x1201. PLEASEII I need Northwestern tickets! 2, 3, AT ACCENT KNOWI FREE camera. Joe x1726 or 4 student or GA'sl Please call 631-4540 
I need 2 tickets for VANDY HELPII I need 1 NW Stu or GA x4420 
(Student or GA) Sell me yours Elaine 42389 LOW LOW LOW student tix. WANT ATHLETIC PERSON FOR Thanks. Chris x0669 4 SENIOR FOOTBALL APPLICA· 2 MARRIED ST BOOKLETS & 4323 PERSONAL TRAINER AND MAS­TIONS FOR SALE !II NEED 2 WASHINGTON TICKETS. 2 NW GAS 4SALE SAGE THERAPIST. WILL TRAIN. CALL SOON AND THEY CAN BE x3520 BO BY 8 PM TH @232-1004 Smuckers Jelly shots are fun. 219-462-8943 A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS YOURSI@#$% 
FOR RENT 
GA'S TO ANY/ALL Lisa 264-5147 NOTRE DAME season tickets I NEED TEXAS GA'S AND WILL Some tips for next weekend: HOME/AWAY GAMES. wanted. Top dollar paid. 674-7625 PAY GOOD$$$ -Don't start the weekend 219-232-0061,24 HRS. (24 hrs.) CALL KAREN AT 271-1569 with a tattoo 
Need 2 Northwestern Tix. student -Pick on people your own size 2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR I need 2 Texas tickets and as or GA's. $$$$ or trade. Liz 4905 I need Northwestern tickets. GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE -Don't steal blenders CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES many tix for Vanderbilt as possible. Please call Bryan CALL 2719464 OR 2887162 -Don't lick the rod 272-6306 Please call Kathleen at 4843. I need 1 GA for the Northwestern 272 4249 -No wrestling 
Game. Call Brian at 4-1570 Two Ohio State Tix. Cheap. LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­Need 2 Texas GAs. HELPIII I NEED OSU TIXIII 4340 2 straight years -# 1 in line -The HOOD 3BR FURNISHED HOME 5 Desperate and Wealthy! NEED NO-TEXAS GA Willing to pay $or trade for PUR­Tradition Continues. MINUTE WALK TO ND BULLARD Call 1-800-223-2440 Ext.4370 OR STUDENT TIX. DUE or USC GA's. call Dawn NEED 2 NW TICKETS 2773097 $$$$$$ CALL DAVE 609-779-3676. x3793 Call Liz or Sue at 4544 The White Sox are still in it -Norby 
---~~-­
~--~~--­

Tuesday, August 29, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 9 
• RYDER CUP • US OPEN 



Europeans tab Faldo, Olazabal Sanchez Vicario happy 

B STEPHEN WADE returning from Oak Hill with have already ins~alled t~e~ociaced Press the cup," Gallacher said. "The Americans as favontes to wm last two times, we have had one again on Sept. 22-24 at the Oak 
VIRGINIA WATER, England hand on the Ryder Cup. In Hill Country Club. Europe added the record­we aim to
three weeks time Gallacher's first 10 placestying experience of Nick Faldo 
have both hands on it." went automatically to the topand the record-sharing success Gallacher's confidence was point-getters on the PGA of Jose Maria Olazabal to its 
based on his all-star collection European Tour at the close of Hyder Cup challenge Monday. 
of players. Sunday's German Ope?. They were selected as wild "It's a very strong team," Heading that list was cards by European captain 
Gallacher said. "When we look Scotland's Colin MontgomerieBernard Gallacher, who vowed 
at the American team, I don't and Sam Torrance, Spain's to beat the United States next 
think we've got anything to be Seve Ballesteros, Costantino month in Hochester, N.Y., and 
scared of. Rocca of Italy and Germany'sbring the coveted golfing prize 
The United States has won Bernhard Langer.back to England. 
the last two biennial competi-The team has only two new­"Everybody is dedicated to 
tions and British oddsmakers comers to Ryder Cup play ­
Sweden's Per-Ulrik Johansson 
and Ireland's Philip Walton. 
Rounding out the team are 
Howard Clark, Mark James and
WELCOME 

David Gilford, all of England. This European team is more experienced in Ryder Cup play 

BACI(! 

than the team American cap­tain Lanny Wadkins picked ear­
Need a job that fits 

lier this month. The U.S. squad has five players making their
your busy schedule? 

Ryder Cup debuts. Faldo will be making his 10th Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to 
straight appearance, matching fit work around your class load! <) We're seeking energetic, 
the record for Ryder Cup appearances held by Christy
responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 
O'Connor Jr. 
·:) As a KidKare registry staff member, you'd be "on call" 
Olazabal was the final pick. Gallacher decided the Spanaird's ailing right foot was OK following top 10 finishes in his last two tournaments in the United States. 
He finished sixth Sunday in the World Series of Golf in Akron, Ohio, where he was the
Call 273-2273 
defending champion. 
to find out 
But Gallacher said he would 
more! 
replace Olazabal if the foot ­
operated on last winter -was 
Memorial 
still troubling him after the Lancome Trophy in Paris on 
Sept. 7-10. He said that

Home Care® 

Olazabal would play only 18 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
holes daily -if he played. 

r--~fjCWtCW-~-OrkCffiffiCS--1 
: DELIVERED f_ OR ONLY 40 CENTS PER DAY MON•SAT! I 
I 1  OM F $25 20 oM:~~s:t $2~.20  DMon-Sun $69.20 osun Only $40.00  I 1  
1 Fall delivery begins Mon., Sept. 4 & ends Fri., Dec. 8 I No Delivery Fall Break (Oct. 14-22) or Thanksgiving Break (Nov. 23-26)1 Make Checks payable to:City News Service 1 Name: ________________________Phone: ________  1 I I I  
I Address:  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I  

1Clip and mail to: City News Servi?e, 1147 ~ishawaka Ave., s._Bend., IN 466151 
L. _ ~,2ff2~e!;!s_E~~.:,.P!,k~P..!"!!1~1~~~~s~n~~o~~ _ .J 
to be part of Seles circus 
By STEVE WILSTEIN dictable victories, dispatching Associaced Press Catalina Cristea 6-1, 6-1 in 49 minutes. NEW YORK 
"It is normal that all the Defending champion Arantxa 
attention is on Monica," Sanchez Vicario, reduced to a 
Sanchez Vicario said. "I mean, bit player in the Monica Seles 
she is back, and after two yearsOpen, won in a yawn Monday 
she is doing a great job. It is before a small, sleepy audience 
better in some ways for me and thousands of empty seats 
because it will take the pres­gleaming silver in the sun. 
sure off for me. I know the Waiting for Monica was all 
attention is on Steffi and anyone seemed to care about Monica." on the first day of the U.S. 
Sanchez Vicario dismissed Open. The food courts were 
reports that she was unhappy more crowded than the stands. 
about the WTA dropping her Some of the fans in the stadium 
from No. 2 to No. 3 when it preferred to snooze on the 
made Seles co-No. 1 with Graf. metal benches and work on 
"I don't know where that their tans until Sanchez Vicario 
comes from, but it has been a finished. 
lot of talking," she said. "I onlyThree times a finalist in 
said that it is great that she is Grand Slam events this year, 
coming back. I mean, she was and three times a loser, the 
No. 1 when everything hap­third-seeded Sanchez Vicario pened to her. It makes more produced one of many pre­
competition. 




Edberg advances 
By HAL BOCK included losses in his last three Associated Press matches against Mats Wilander, Sandon Stolle and 
NEW YORK 

MaliVai Washington. Quietly, which is his style, 
He knows he is not viewed as Stefan Edberg won his opening a 
factor in a field filled with match at the U.S. Open 
glamour guys like Agassi,Monday, defeating Martin 
Sampras, Becker and the oth­Damm 6-0, 6-3, 7-6 (7-4). 
ers. Still, he believes his best That shouldn't be any big 
chance for success is on the deal, but this is not the same 
hard courts of the Open. "I am Edberg who won consecutive 
hitting the ball pretty well," he Opens in 1991 and 1992. 
said. "I still feel I have a This Edberg is scrambling to 
chance." find some consistency in his 
The absence of a seeding game, battling himself almost 
seemed to leave him slightly as hard as he does his oppo­
embarrassed. "It's a different nents. He came in unseeded 
situation, unseeded for the first here for the first time since 
time in a long time," he said. "I 1984, battling a free fall that 
knew that coming in. 
1 Lastc~:~~~;erscore! ~~~-r-E
_ Last class begins: Wed., August 30

H!!l 
C 11 1 800 KAP TEST ~' ' g~~highers~ore 
1 




KApLAN
:~s::,!!.~e~ib:~~:o~~hNt:G~1~6s~~~1 ever. 
MOCK CONVENTION COMMISSIONER 
Student Government is looking for someone to organize and plan the 1996 Mock Convention for the Republican Party. If you have super planning skills and are exdted about finding guest speakers and politicians for this long­standing Notre Dame tradition, stop by the Student Government Office on the second floor of Lafortune and pick up an application. 
FILL OUT AN APPLICATION TODAY! ALLAPPLICATIONS 

ARE DUE BY MONDAY :c.-t01'A6~: 
SEPTEMBER 4, 1995. M~ 
ffi:ciNt! 

page 10 
... 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Recycle The Observer 

The Observer • SPORTS 

D-line 
continued from page 12 
With projected starter Melvin Dansby out for the year and freshman Jerry Wisne con­verted to offense, the Irish de­fensive line is, as Davie noted, "probably as thin as it has been in my 19 years of coaching, and that includes my years with Tulane." 
The result will likely be a trial by fire for some of the untested linemen. As Grasmanis noted, "When you look at how thin we are, every­one has to step up." 

A likely candidate to "step up" is freshman Jimmy Friday, an explosive talent out of Texas who will solidify the depth chart at end. However, like the rest of the undersized line, he will face the daunting task of continually being worn down by larger foes. 
"These guys are not very big," said Davie. "Jimmy Fri­day at 230 pounds will be up against 280 pound linemen. To be honest, he'll probably be asked to play before he's ready." 

The rest of the defense must be ready to provide some sup­port, but not to try and do too much. "When Melvin (Dansby) went down in the spring, I told them that defense is a team game, and that all 10 other players have to pick up the slack," said Davie. "We need our front, especially Grasma­nis, to avoid injury and be con­sistent." 
Irish 
continued from page 12 

Irish after missing all but one game in the 1994 season was forward Bill Lanza, who played the entire first half for the Irish. 
"I was very pleased with Bill's performance," said Irish coach Mike Berticelli. "He was able to give us a good first half." 
Berticelli was happy with his team's second half perfor­mance, saying, "In the second Tuesday, August 29, 1995 
half we felt more comfortable playing with each other, and we played with more confi­dence." 
Just how much confidence the Irish gained from Satur­day's tie remains to be seen, and Berticelli is looking to im­prove the team's defense, among other things, before the home opener on September 3. 
"As we move into the opener, we need to look to improve our defense, " commented Berti­celli. " We also want to improve our quality chances to score." 

~~ ' --/ -[p)~£[p) [b0[M ~ AUGUST30 IH & GRAD/FAC/STAFF BASEBALL IH & GRAD/FAC/STAFF FOOTBALL IH & GRAD/FAC/STAFF TENNIS SINGLES AND MIXED DOUBLES FRESHMEN SWIM MEET CAMWUS 16" & CO-REC SOFTBALL 631-6100  ~ C7 [p)~£[p) [b0[M ~ SEPTEMBER 6 CAMWUSGOLFSCRAMBLE IH MEN'S & GRAD/FAC/STAFF SOCCER CAMWUS OUTDOOR VOLLEYBALL IH CROSS COUNTRY CALL THE RecSport HOTLINE 1-8REC  


•


zve 
at The Cove Friday Sept 1 
A benefit for the Charles Martin Youth Center 
Call Coveleski Stadium in South Bend for tickets: 235-9988 Box Seats $25, Reserved Seats $20. Charge by phone. 






--7.. ~ 
Tuesday, August 29, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 11 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLEIT CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON • 1 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
l'O B\J\L\) A Rf>H FOR I'IIE ALWA'I'S Sf>..ID '10\J'RE NO\\-\ll'lG. T\.1\5 ~0. 13\JT I DC'J~·T A FR\~1'\D WITt\0\lT PIER 
lif>..'JE A f'l"'CE T() DOCK IT. 
DILBERT 
0

1 AM-Sf>IINT DOGBE.RT. :1 
" 

T HAVE COME TO DRIVE ~ OUT niE .STf>ILE AND ~ 
:1 

OVERUSED JOKES ABOUT ~ 1\-\E. INFOR~ATION 5UPER-~ HIGHWAY ""' 
) 
CROSSWORD 
50~E.TIMES I FEE.L LIKE 
~ 

ROADI\ILL ON 
!

THE INFOR.M~TION 
"' 
. ~ ,

SUPERI-\IGI-\LJAY! 
, ~ 
:! 
c 
" 
.. ~ 
-

j.L!.JC~---...L:.tE~Q.,.,.J II 
ACROSS 25 Elite military 49 Fore's partner group 52 Jack Boyle 
1 Leave, slangily 
27 World Series of detective 

6 New York's­
Poker winner 56 "Get going I" 

University 
58 Always__ 10 Component 
31 Dictatorial 

part 34 Site of deposit 59 Transparent withdrawals cloth 
14 Hardly eager 
60 Artists'
35 African

15 Muslim title purchases
antelope16 "Heartburn" 61-avis
36 "That hurts!" 

writer Ephron 
62 Columnist
37 Deere products 

17 Carroll Goodman
39 Stamping tools 

adventuress 63 Cotton bundle 
40 Neighbor of 

18 Number of 64 One-armed
Leb.

Beethoven bandit's gullet symphonies 41 Astronaut Bean 
as Gobs 19 Winter Palace 42 "--Porridge resident, once Hot" 
DOWN

20"Guys and 43 Radio drama "of Dolls" guy mother love and 1 Italics have it 23 Do one's 2 Kind of bear or
sacrifice" darnedest 47 Lover cap 24 Actor Stephen 48 Feel unwell 3 Ordinary churchfolk 4Yen ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE s "Be all that you can be" group 6 The ban poet 
1 She might get a 
billet-doux 8 Shoptalk 9 May birthstones 
10 Loosens 11 Yearning for the past 12 Clinton aide Magaziner 13 Roofing substance 
21 Teachers' org. 
22 Siouan Indian 
26 King Solomon's excavations 

The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­
ing form and mail it today to receive The ·Observer in your home. 
BILL WAITERSON 
SCOIT ADAMS 
DON'T Mf\KE 1"\[ COME OVER 
THERE! r--~ 

v-.:;;p,___,_ 
....,.~-.,., .• ~:._..._.~<l!!!!':C......,.,•• ~ 

27 Bat wood 28 Actress Massey 
29Weather system 30 Meditate 31 Forest: Fr. 32 Evicts 33Weirdo 37 Kind of punch 38 Terhune dog 
39Composer Josquin­Pres 

Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

6· 

"We're in luck, Dave! I found my Triple-A card!" 
• OF INTEREST 
'fn'''' _,

,;;;~filntorme1fon meetings for Fall Break Seminara • offered by the Center_ for Social Concerns will be held today at 4:00 p.m. (Cultural Diversity Semlnru'), 6:30 
p.m. (Washington Seminar}, and 7:00 p.m. (Appalachia Seminar). Meetings will be held at the Center and will -• outline experiential and service learning opportunities 
over Fall Break 

Several tenors and basses are needed for the .. ND/SMC Collegiate Choir. The 60-voice choir is the "largest choir between the two campuses and it meets 
two nights a week (Monday and Thursday) from 6:30 
p.m. to 7:30 p.m. in 114 Moreau Hall on the Saint Mary's campus. The choir, under the direction of Dr. Nancy Merik, may be taken for one academic credit. Call 284-4632 for more information, or come to a re­hearsal this week. 
hiiirc 



Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $40 for one semester Name ______________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City------------State _____ Zip___________ 
-
41 Actress 49"AViewto-" MacGraw et al. so-mignon 42Tasting 
51 Adolescents 

sensibilities 53 Track-shaped44 Founder of 54 Nephew ofTaoism Caligula45 Experimental 55 R.C., e.g. 
animal 46 Like Capp's 56 Kind of sister 
Abner 57 Spook-y org. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 


------------------~--~-~~-~~--~-­

SPORTS 
• 
page 12 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Defense is the story in shutout 
By JOE VILLINSKI Assistant Spons Editor 
In their first exhibition game of the year, the women's soccer team exhibited the dominance that has earned them the No. 2 
... ranking in the nation . The Irish traveled to Evanston last Saturday as they defeated Northwestern 6-0, h.olding the Wildcats to just three shots on goal. In addi­tion, junior goaltender Jen Renola only had to contend with only two of those shots. uwe hadn't worked on much defensively, so we did pretty well considering that," Renola 
The Observer/Michael HungeHng 

said. "I didn't have much to do 
Sophomore Kate Sobrero notched a goal in Notre Dame's 6-0 win over
the whole game." 
Northwestern in exhibition play Saturday. 
"The game was a good indi­cation of where we still need to game. The game also proved to be be working," sophomore Julie "Monica is really going to be helpful in getting a game under Maund said. a strong player for us," said the Irish's belt before the sea­
Meanwhile on the offensive Maund who had two assists in son opener next Saturday side, it was an auspicious debut the game. "I was happy to see against Providence. for freshman Monica Gerardo her do well." "It was good to see some of who tallied the hatrick. Senior Rosella Guerrero and the weaknesses," Maund said. Gerardo opened the scoring at sophomore Kate Sobrero also "We are having some trouble 

39:43 on assists from senior found the back of the net dur­finishing around the box." Ragen Coyne and sophomore ing the shutout. "We started off a little bit Holly Manthei. Gerardo pro­"We learned a lot about what slow, but it was good to get out ceeded to then score two of the we need to do to get where we and play as a team," Renola next three goals in her first want to be," Renola added. said. 
• MEN'·S SOCCER 

Irish pass pre-season test 
BY DYlAN BARMMER University Billikens in men's University. 
Spons Writer soccer action Saturday night. The tie came against a Saint The pre-season contest served Louis team which is ranked Konstantin Koloskov's goal as a tune-up for the Irish team. number 15 in the nation. Ap­from 18 yards out with 2:12 which begins regular season parently Billiken fans are ex­remaining in the game salvaged play at home Sunday, cited about this year's team, as 
a 1-1 tie with the Saint Louis September 3, against DePaul 4,107 spectators showed up at the Saint Louis Soccer Stadium for the team's only pre-season game. The game's first half was scoreless, but in the second half the fans were treated to a more up-tempo game, and at the 
67:34 mark the first goal, an 18 -yarder from the left corner by St. Louis' Shannon McPart­land, was recorded. 
Midfield sensation Koloskov answered for the Irish at 87:48 into the game with his own scorcher from the left corner, securing a tie against the tough Billiken team. 
Koloskov's tying goal came less than eight minutes after substitute Irish midfielder Josh Landman's shot from seven yards out was stopped by Saint Louis goalie Dan Kelly. The Irish finished the game with four shots on goal, while hold­ing Saint Louis to only three. 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 
Making his return for the

Konstantin Koloskov scored in the waning seconds of Saturday's game with St. Louis to preserve a 1-1 tie. 
see IRISH I page 10 


Tuesday, August 29, 1995 
Onm··.?·'t:J_'!!Itl•n·· :,;u,_·t·· 1•0"111ll9
r ·.· ... 
~:}?V u ·a• 
.....:.-::;::..... "' ;.0:0.:. . . . :·· . 
'iOdks1o loCk Up Tine 
Questions aplenty qp front 
J3r nMSEYMOIJR. bop.rd of defensive positions: Assod<~te SporU Ediror · ·. · senior PaulGrasmanis is a natural and tested lineman, Changing the scenery has senior Renaldo Wynn has been PQ~ited as t},),~ formula achieved fa:tne as an outside for success for Notre Dame linebacker, and sophomore football's pre-season. In a lit-Corey Bennett was r~cruited eral se~se the change was as a defensive back. To com­obvtous, as eoacl\. Lou Holtz' plete the circuit, Grasmanis decided to move the team will he backed up by senior away from the David Quist, an . ~f:lctic . prban offensiveJinemp.n 
·· ~orid of.the RV last season. extravaganza to Naturally. the team..chem-Certainly the ($t:t7Y f()rming patchWork front solitude ofCulver has defensive M i l i t a r y coordinator Bob 
,•. ,~pa;der;Jl,)f~ . Davie resting · More · subtle anything but fit-changes have FOOTBAll.fully at night. but 
placed Iris,b play-J · · : + : •. i , ..·..··· ..· .... not for the same e:rs on a .6(!;1'()'95f:ll.of position reasons one might expect. adjustments. thoqgh, moving "We have seven players on punters to quarterbacks and defense starting for the first .~~f¢nslv~ e~d~ ~~';.f.Jlfensiye. WP.e ~t their. po~iti(m;" ·Davie 
~.}lards. ··1Jowe~~r;-'the most explained. <~However, I'm con-common )\ew VIeW is that of fident that the first three on .pl\e oppo~~ng qu~J'~erback's the Une can handle things. ;~~eE~• um(;lr~p~ of th.t). Corey Bennett has rep.lly come• ·n.omad risb have found on, and he's going to surprise 
tbemselves a new home on the some people." 
~~(en~iy~ ..JWe. . < > . . •. . Mote pressing to D~vie is the l·.;The sta,rting fro~),~. for Satur~ lack·of depth along the front. day's opener against North­western.involves a smorgas~ 
see D-UNE/ page 10 
Notre Dame is looking to Paul Grasmanis to bolster a rather undersized defensive line. 
Football Women's Soccer vs. Northwestern 
vs. Providence September 2, 10 a.m. September 2, 1:30 EST 

• Scott Sollman named to All-Stars see page 10 
vs. St. John's September 3, Noon 
Volleyball 

Saint Mary's Soccer l -
vs. Northwestern September 1, 8 p.m. 
vs. John Carroll September 3, 11 a.m. 
• Sanchez-Vicario, Edberg advance in
I vs. USC September 2, 8 p.m. 
I 
Saint Mary's Volleyball 
U.S. Open
Cross Country 
vs. Calvin September 7, 6 p.m. at Ohio State September 15 
see page 9 








