

Tuesday, March 21, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 105 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Unknown Keenan Diversity Week features Huerta 
By EDWARD IMBUS Concerns on Wednesday at 8:15 people in the states. (But) the race relations at Notre Dame, Associate News Editor pm. On Thursday she will dis­people needed the help to get which in the 3-year history of cuss diversity issues with stu­their rights," said Miguel Be­Diversity Week has proven one 
donor gives 

Although Keenan Hall is best dents in the Keenan Commons rastain, a coordinator for of the most popular events. 
known for their Hevue, the beginning at 10 pin. Diversity Week. "No one on campus seemed Special ro the Observer dorm has also provided the Huerta directed the 1970 On Friday, Lois Mason will to want to talk about issues of campus with a series of events grape boycott that gave the speak on "Both Sides of the race," Berastain said, "but 
The University of Notre aimed at recognizing the bene­UFW its first collective bargain­Hacial Issue" in the Keenan there is a need to talk. {TheDame has reenived a gift of fits cultural diversity brings to ing agreements, which she Commons at 7 pm, followed by panel discussion) is a goodapproximately $1.5 million the Notre Dame campus. wrote. She was also influential a performance of the campus chance to see how different stu­from an anonymous benefac­The events will begin with a in the passage of the Agricul­band Sabor Latino from 10 pm dents feel at Notre Dame (about tor to nstablish a master of speech by Dolores Huerta who, tural Labor Helations Act in to midnight. racial relations)." business administration (MBA) with Cesar Chavez, co-founded 1975. Saturday's events in begin A special mass with a priestmnrit scholarship program. the United Farm Workers of "She had to fight discrimina­with "Baranga" games at 6:30 from Chicago will be held in the 
"It is no secret that we want America in 1962. She will tion, to fight for a cause that pm in Keenan, but will be high­Keenan Chapel at 4:30 pm will speak at the Center for Social was not supported by many lighted by a panel discussion on 

MBA grant 

see GRANT I page 4 see HUERTA I page 4 
• CAMPUS liFE CouNCil 
Football ticket exchange discussed by CLC, Scholl 
Observer Staff Rcpon posed to the scalping problem was emphasizing the benefits 
Preliminary discussions re­of not getting one's tickets garding a possible football tick­confiscated when caught scalp­et exchange program were ing. held at the Campus Life The ticket ollice plans to put Council's meeting last night. an exchange program in place 
William Scholl, director of by this fall. ticketing and marketing and a The project was initially pro­guest at last night's meeting, posed by William Kirk, the as­said that he was open to any sistant vice president for Hesi­ideas for a possible ticket ex­dent Life, who said last semes­change or regulated resale pro­ter that he wanted a way for gram. One possibility included students sell their tickets to allowing students to exchange friends or family members a student ticket for a general without violating University admission ticket. ticket regulations. Primary 
Scholl said that was "a great CLC reaction to the idea was idea," but warned that two favorable, though several problems may stand in the members last semester also way. pointed out that details needed 
First, allowing a ticket swap to be outlined before its would likely result in people approval. other than college students A subcommittee was formed watching the games from the to explore the matter, but student section. throughout the year did not re­
Second, scalping would prob­port any significant progress to ably become easier and more the Council. The idea was also prevalent when considering delayed as the Council consid­that student tickets would gain ered proposals from the same face value as a GA GLND/SMC. ticket. Moreover, students pos­This CLC meeting marked the 
sibly would be less inclined to final one for chairman and Stu­
The Observer/ Staff Photo 
exchange their tickets if they dent Body President Dave Hun­knew they could gain more geling. The next meeting will 
Catchin' some ZZZs 
A student takes a quick nap in the LaFortune Student Center in order to get a break from her studying. 
money by scalping. One solution that Scholl pro-see CLC I page 4 





Nerve gas spreads throughout Tokyo subway 
By PETER LANDERS subway attack, authorities sion on Monday. 
Associated Press blamed sarin, a nerve gas de­Police refused to discuss sus­veloped by the Nazis in World pects Monday and the motive TOKYO War II. for the attack was unclear. The Police in protective gear The threat of chemical or bio­Aum Shinri Kyo religious cult, seized five packages of nerve logical terrorism has worried previously accused of making gas that spread death Monday governments increasingly in sarin, denied any involvement through Tokyo's crowded sub­recent years, as the technology and threatened to sue anyone way systt~m. hunting for clues became more widespread and who suggnsted there was a link. in a chilling new chapter in ur­easy to obtain. The planners likely had ad­ban terrorism: the use of chem­"Terrorists have taken that vanced knowledge of chemistry. ical weapons. step across the threshold into While it is fairly easy to obtain 
No one claimed responsibility the use of weapons of mass de­the ingredients to produce for the chilling attack, which struction," said Kyle Olson of sarin, the chemical process is killed six people, sickened more the Chemical and Biological difficult to perform. than 3,200 others and para­Arms Control Institute in A little as a drop of sarin ­lyzed one of the world's busiest Alexandria, Va. inhaled or on the skin -can subway systems. It stunned the Olson studied the Matsumoto kill a person almost instantly. Japanese, who consider their poisoning and warned in The gas attacks a key enzyme country among the world's February that it could happen needed by the nervous system, safest. again. causing difficulty in breathing, 
The attack drew new atten­"I began to reach the conclu­a fall in blood pressure and 
tion to earlier, unsolved cases sion that this was a dress re­contraction of the pupils in the of chemical poisoning, includ­hearsal of some type, that eye. ing the deaths of seven people someone was trying to get the The gas was used by Iraq in in the central Japanese city of hang of using a new weapon," its war with Iran in the 1980s. Matsumoto in June. As in the he told Associated Press Televi-AP/Karl Gude 
see JAPAN I page 6 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, March 21, 1995 
• INsmE CoLUMN 
The Irish character 

ofND 

While the question of how to instill, cherish, Edward Imbus and protect the Catholic Associate News Editor character of Notre Dame -------­has been debated for some time, the University has many more qualities that should also be recognized and enjoyed. 
The distinct Irish character of Notre Dame is one of those qualities. It sets this university apart from any other. Celebrated only un­consiously, it helps bind the community to­gether into its tight-knit family. 
Notre Dame seems to attract a large amount of people with Irish descent automatically because of its quiet, unspoken pride in the fact. 
The concentration of red-headed people, stu­dents with a last name beginning with 0' or Me, or other identifiably Irish last names at Notre Dame is tremendous -much larger than any other place I have ever visited except for the the Green Isle itself. 
Only here have I needed to be corrected with the pronunciation of such names like Dougherty or Loughran, which are rightly said "Dockerty" and "Lockran." 
But the Irish of Notre Dame are not exclusive or exclusionary. 
Beyond introducing me to green beer last year (before our party was rudely interrupted by the otherwise good police officers of the city), the Irish culture of ND is inclusive and inviting to all, regardless of any categorical distinctions, like race or political leaning. 
The requirement to join the group is, rather, adopt and enjoy the stereotypical Irish charac­teristics: the friendliness, the competitiveness, the wit and good humor, the drinking and merriment, and an aversion to snobbery-de­spite the fact that some, like those in my for­mer high school, found ND too "trendy" for their tastes. 
The Irish it seems, for the most part, are ethical and principled as well, which may be tied to the traditional relationship of the Irish to Catholicism, the faith upon which Notre Dame was founded. 
The Irish also give staunch loyalty to their families-a group which, to a university stu­dent, may include friends, a team, or in fact everyone in the community. 
Nowhere else but at Notre Dame could such a spirited debate take place about the lep­rechaun mascot looking too belligerent or "troll-like." Students elsewhere wouldn't care enough to consider it. 
Nowhere else would a program in Irish Studies be welcomed and embraced so quickly and so warmly. Professor Deane's Beginning Irish class exemplies this by filling to capacity in record time, notwithstanding DART. Professor Dolan's classes in Irish History, like­wise, have always been very popular with the student body. 
Only some of my blood is that of shamrocks and blarney stones, and only a little at that. Many others on campus may not be Irish at all. That cannot, though, and does not stop us from saying and cheering, "We are the Fighting Irish of Our Lady's University." 
So smile! Sing! And raise a glass to families 
all, including our own. Give in to instinct; the 
Irish nature in us cannot be held back. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Accent  
Ethan Hayward  Jenny Gunzelman  
Jamie Heisler  Pete Rubinas  
Spons  
Dave Treacy  Production  
Belle Bautista  
Graphics  Susan Marx  
Robert Bollman, Jr.  


• WtrRUl Ai AGUNCE 
Cars, trucks crash on interstate bridge across Mobile Bay 
MOBILE, Ala. Teague said one person died. At least More than 100 cars and trucks col-L ...-T_E_..•N....-N_E_s_s_E_E_____y·--·---·-----43 people were admitted to hospitals. 
lided in fog on a bridge across Mobile Bay this morning in a string of acci­dents that killed one motorist and injured at least 43. 
The wrecks in the rush hour chain reaction left cars crumpled, wreckage littered and motorists wandering in shock amid smoke and the smell of gas near the middle of the Interstate 10 bridge. if 
Cars looked like "somebody had w crushed a beer can," said a witness, w
U5
Ned Morris. w 
The span extends several miles ~ across the bay, connecting the port city and communities of Baldwin County to the east. It is heavily trav­eled by commuters as well as Florida-

ALABAMA 
MontgomeryO 
bound vacation travelers. ~--<,.--~..-...... The multiple pileups began in fog 
An hour later, helicopters and ambulances could be seen ferrying back and forth to the scene to remove the injured. 
James Coleman said he could hear one car hitting another car as the chain-reaction took place. As motorists were sorting through the collisions a garbage truck "plowed 
<t: through everybody," he said. a Another witness, James Cartwright, oa: said he had to crawl out a window of w his car after another vehicle smashed CJ into him from behind. He said he 
found a woman trapped in her vehi­cle and held her hand for about a half hour until an emergency crew brought equipment to free her. 
"She was lucky she survived," he said. 
on the eastbound span around 6:45 Gulf of Mexico Witnesses said several cars burst 
a.m. Witnesses said that as motorists L-10_0_km_____...;.________j into flames and people were sitting in 
got out to check on the first collision, vehciles began slowing and were hit from behind. Eventually there were several pileups and burning wreckage over perhaps a mile of the bridge. 
Police spokesman Tom Jennings said at least 100 vehi­cles were involved and that the injured included six in critical condition. State trooper spokeswoman Dorris 
AP shock on the side of the bridge. The fronts of several cars were left sticking out over the side of the bridge but did not appear to be in any danger of falling. 
Traffic in both directions was halted as police, troopers and emergency crews tried to sort through the wreck­age. 
Clinton observes V-E Day in Russia 
WASHINGTON 
Choosing new friends over old, President Clinton will celebrate the 50th anniversary of the allied victory in Europe in Moscow rather than London, the White House announced Monday. The decision to accept President Boris Yeltsin invitation to be in Moscow May 9 came a month after U.S. officials said the fighting in Chechnya made it un­


likely Clinton would join the Russian celebration. The apparent concession to Yeltsin was coupled with the sec­ond embarrassing moment in U.S.-British relations in less than a week. The British, like the French and the Americans, celebrate the victory over the Nazis a day earlier than the Russians. Rather than accept Prime Minister John Major's invitation to be in London on May 8, White House spokesman Mike McCurry said Clinton would mark the occasion at Arlington National Cemetery "with U.S. veterans, their families, and their loved ones." 
Vandals dismember Big Boy statue 
TOLEDO, Ohio 
Who killed Big Boy? Someone stole the 300-pound, 6­
foot Big Boy statue from a restaurant Friday, dismem­
bered the grinning fiberglass fellow with a hacksaw, 
scrawled "Big Boy is dead" on the pieces and dropped 
them off around town Sunday. Between giggles, police 
are taking the theft seriously. "It's really hard to keep a 
straight face when you talk about it," said Sgt. Richard 
Murphy. Murphy said Big Boy was chopped into seven 
pieces. His hamburger was intact, but his right ear and 
part of his belly were still missing. A note was attached 
to all but one of the severed limbs with the message: "Big 
Boy is Dead." A note attached to one limb said: "Big Boy 
is almost dead. Nevermind. Now he's dead." Each note 
was signed: "Pimps of pimplyness." Taped to the sev­
ered right buttock was a newspaper ad that said: "Strip 
Steak $2.29 a pound." "They had a sense of humor," 
Murphy said. The statue was worth about $4,000. 


Inmate's death wish is granted 
McALEST~R. Okla. 
Thomas Grasso, the two-time killer whose case shaped the New York governor's race, got his death wish Mon­day. Then, with him safely out of the way, his ex-wife was charged with helping him in one murder. Prosecutors had delayed filing a murder charge against Lana Yvonne Grooms, fearing Grasso would decide to fight his execution. Ms. Grooms was accused of helping Grasso get into the clapboard house where 87 -year-old Hilda Johnson was strangled with an extension cord from her Christmas tree on Christmas Eve 1990. Grasso, who had demanded he be put to death for the murder. held his resolve to the end. He died by injection early Monday. Grasso, 32, became symbolic of the fight over the death penalty in New York state, where Gov. Mario Cuomo, a death penalty opponent, insisted that Grasso first serve a 20-year-to-life sentence for a 1991 murder in New York City before going to Oklahoma, where he faced execution. Cuomo lost his re-election bid last fall to Republican George Pataki, who promised in his campaign that one of his first acts would be to send Grasso to Oklahoma. 
France plans steps to help Rushdie 
PARIS 
Salman Rushdie said Monday that French officials have promised to urge European countries to pressure Iran to ensure his safety. The novelist has lived under police guard since Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini ordered his death in 1989, ruling that he blasphemed Islam in his novel "The Satanic Verses." Khomeini has died, but a $3 million bounty offered by an Iranian group for Rushdie's death remains in effect. "Today was a very important day, not only for me, but for the campaign against Iranian threats," Rushdie said after meeting with Foreign Minister Alain Juppe and leading candidates in next month's presidential election, including conservative Premier Edouard Balladur. "We put forth a concrete pro­posal, which they embraced with genuine enthusiasm." Rushdie suggested that each country in the European Union ask Iran to guarantee that no attacks related to the death threat would be carried out in Europe. 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 21. 

cow WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu·Weather. Inc. 
Pressure 

H L B &Sl all D !ZJ § {) 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN Y:.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUCN CLOUDY 
Viewpoint Lab Tech Rae Sikula Eric Ruethling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 01995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Atlanta  79  53  Dallas  81  59  New Orleans 79  55  
Baltimore  64  41  Denver  61  25  New York  54  39  
Boston  53  32  Los Angeles 69  62  Philadelphia 62  37  
Chicago  60  43  Miami  80  62  Phoenix  86  57  
Columbus  76  44  Minneapolis 42  37  St. Louis  70  58  

Tuesday, March 21, I 995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 



Malloy speaks at NO­Five million granted to ND 
Australia graduation 
Special to the Observer doors to students in January 
1992. Although no legal or fi­
Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C., nancial ties connect the two in­president of the University of stitutions, Australia's first pri­Notre Dame, was a speaker vate Catholic university and its and guest of honor Mon., U.S. counterpart have strong March 13, at the first com­collegial connections. mencement exercises of the Father Malloy, Father University of Notre Dame­Beauchamp, and Notre Dame's Australia in the Western provost, Timothy O'Meara, as­Australia city of Fremantle. sisted in the development of 
the Australian university and 
Also as part of the exercises, serve on its board of governors. on Sun., March 12. Rev. E. Dean David Link of the Notre William Beauchamp, C.S.C .. Dame Law School served as executive vice president of first president of Notre Dame­Notre Dame, unveiled a statue Australia and also is a member of "Our Lady," the Mother of of its board. Link joined Father Jesus ("Our Lady" being the Malloy and Beauchamp at the English translation of "Notre commencement exercises. Dame") that was a gift from the 
U.S. to the Australian univer­The two universities also par­sity. The statue was executed ticipate in annual student and by Peter Schipperheyn, who is faculty exchange programs, regarded as Australia's finest and some 30 Notre Dame stu­sculptor in marble. dents currently in Australia 
Established in 1989, Notre will meet with Father Malloy Dame-Australia opened its during his visit. 
THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM 

SUBMISSION FOR THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM ARE INVITED FROM ALL NOTRE DAME GRADUATE AND UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS. ESSAYS MUST TREAT A TOPIC IN ART HISTORY OR CRITICISM. ONLY TOPICS DEALING WITH THE VISUAL ARTS ARE ELIGIBLE. TIIE PRIZE CARRIES A CASH AWARD OF UP TO $500,-RULES MAY BE OBTAINED IN ROOM 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 
, ENTRIES ARE DUE 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY BY 
3:00 PM ON FRIDAY, MARCH 31 
Special to The Observer 

The University of Notre Dame 
received $5,144,730 in grants 
during January for the support 
of research and various pro­
grams. Research funds totaled 
$4,967,795, including: 

-$3,559,000 from the U.S. 
Department of Energy for re­
search by Robert Schuler, di­
rector of the Radiation Labora­
tory and Zahm professor of ra­
diation chemistry, and others 
on the effects of radiation on 
matter. 

-$389,900 from the National 
Institutes of Health for research 
by George Craig, Jr., Clark pro­
fessor of biological sciences, on 
vector competence for La 
Crosse virus in Aedes mosqui­
toes. 

-$226,365 from the National 
Institutes of Health for research 
by Howard Saz, professor of bi­
ological sciences, on intermedi­
ary metabolism of helminths 
(parasitical worms). 

-$212,137 from the National 
Institutes of Health for research by Marvin Miller, professor of · chemistry and biochemistry, on drugs and delivery systems for 
opportunistic diseases. 

-$175,000 from the National 
Aeronautic and Space Adminis­
tration Langley Research Cen­
ter for research on multidisci­
plinary design technology de­
velopment by John Renaud. 
Clark Equipment assistant pro­
fessor of aerospace and me­
chanical engineering; Stephen 
Batill, director of the Hessert 
Center for Aerospace Research 
and professor of aerospace and 
mechanical engineering; oth­
ers. 

-$168,713 from the U.S. Air 
Force for research by Dennis 
Jacobs, assistant professor of 
chemistry and biochemistry. on 
energetic and steric effects in 
ion/surface reactive scattering. 

-$100,000 from Interna­
tional Business Machines for 
research by David Cohn, pro-
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIV SIGN-UPS 
MAIN SIGN UPS($10/TEAM) 
In LaFortune 
Tuesday, March 21 6-9 p.m. 
Wednesday, March 22 11:30-2 & 6-9 p.m. 
Thursday, March 23 6-9 p.m. 
In North and South Dining Halls 
Thursday, March 23 11:30-1 p.m. 
LATE SIGN-UPS($13/TEAM) 

In LaFortune 
Friday, March 2 4 11:3 0-2 p.m. 
In O'Shag-The Great Hall 
Saturday, March 2S 1 -4 p.m. 2 Captains and 2 team names Be apart of Notre Dame's greatest traditions. Don't Be Left Out! 
fessor of computer science and engineering and professor of electrical engineering, on pro­tected shared libraries. 
-$41,680 from Mizutani Foundation (glycoscience) for studies in neuroblastoma and colon carcinoma by Manju Basu, associate faculty fellow in chemistry and biochemistry. 
-$30,000 from Alton Jones Foundation for research by David Cortright, guest lecturer in the Kroc Institute for Inter­national Peace Studies, on nu­clear options and public opin­ion in India. 
-$22,500 from Union Car­bide for research by Arvind Varma, Schmitt professor of chemical engineering, on opti­mal catalyst activity distribu­tions in pellets. 
-$20,000 from Los Alamos National Laboratory for re­search by Gary Bernstein, as­sociate professor of electrical engineering, and Yih-Fang Huang, professor of electrical engineering, on fabrication of tunnel devices. 
-$10,000 from United Health Services for research by Bradley Smith, assistant pro­fessor of chemistry and bio­chemistry. on pro drugs for re­sistant tumors. 
-$7,500 from United Casualty Agencies for support of scholarly works by Abbot Astrik Gabriel, director and professor emeritus in the Medieval Institute and director of the Folsom Ambrosiana microfilm and photographic collection. 
-$5,000 from Ohio Aerospace Institute for docu­mentation of the power train by William Berry, professor of electrical engineering. 
Awards for instructional pro­grams totaled $60,000, includ­ing: 
-$50,000 from the National Technology Transfer Center for the NATO Advanced Study In­stitute program. administered by Anthony Hyder, associate vice president of graduate stud­ies and research. 
-$10,000 from the McGee Foundation for a fellowship program in economics, admin­istered by Nathan Hatch, vice president for graduate studies and research. 
Awards for service programs totaled $21,185 from anony­mous donors for various pro­grams for the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 


The Observer/ Kris Adidarma 

And the band played on 
Trombone player John Colegrove, a graduate student, performs a solo in the spring concert of the University Concert Band. 
great skills... 
+7.2. t * 

Kaplan students get the most 
po1n s complete test preparation materials available including computer-analyzed practice tests, home-study materials, a training library and teachers that really care. 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 





KAPLAN 
• A,s documented in the May 1994 Kaplan LSAT Perlormance Study conducted by Price Waterhouse. 


page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, March 21, 1995 
ascend more rapidly," he which feature creative curricu­added. la that enhance the relevance
Popularity of raves Grant 
Beginning in August of this of an MBA degree. The Notre year, four new scholarships Dame program impressed
continued from page 1 
will be given annually, on the Business Week with its empha­

growing in Midwest 

basis of achievement to sis on ethics and the loyalty of to see Notre Dame move much American and international its alumni in job searches. 
By TED BRIDIS ture, and it is bone-jarringly higher in the ranks of the na­MBA students. Preference will Notre Dame's MBA program Associated Press loud and fast -up to 180 beats tion's leading MBA programs," be given to students who have is a part of the College of Busi­per minute. Some ravers are said University President Rev. had at least two years of ness Administration, the Uni­EVANSVILLE, Ind. dubbed "bass-heads" because Edward Malloy, C.S.C. unique experience in the busi­versity's second largest college On weekend nights, they they dance next to the 10-foot "We are particularly grateful, ness world. with more than 2,100 under­gather from hundreds of miles stereo speakers in the darkness therefore, for such generous graduate and graduate stu­away, assembling in aban­to feel their entire bodies pulse gifts as this one, which, by A recent survey in Business dents. A new $23 million com­doned buildings and ware­and vibrate. 

underwriting the recruitment Week magazine included Notre plex for the college is nearinghouses to dance until dawn to "The quickness of the beats, of the finest students, will Dame's MBA program among completion and will be occu­
bone-rattling, futuristic the futuristic electronics and 

enable our MBA program to the "up-and-comer schools" pied for the fall 1995 semester. 
"Techno" music. historic sampling creates a 
It's all the Rave, a subculture blend that just makes you want with a self-proclaimed ethic of to dance," said raver John Ore, "Peace, Love, Unity and Re­25, of Atlanta. "When you feel spect." that music wash over you, it is 
The rave movement is years that powerful." old with roots in London, but it Ravers are typically technol­has managed to remain mostly ogy-savvy college students and underground in the United young professionals. They use 

Now that you're going to
States. Its subterranean nature e-mail and the public forum makes it almost impossible to "alt.rave" on the Internet to track its spread across the spread news about their par­country, but raves are now ties. 


graduate school, how 
common in parts of the Mid­"I wear a suit, carry a pager west, including Detroit, and use phrases like 'level-set' Chicago, Indianapolis and the and 'learning curve,' " Ore 

do you plan to pay for it?
Louisville area. said. "I also have my septum Music defines the rave cui-and my navel pierced, a few tattoos and a pet ferret." Ravers are drawn to the se­
cretive weekend parties, where thousands of people might continued from page 1 drive hours and pay $10 to $25 to dance until 6 a.m. 


Huerta 

Ask us.
"Most raves breed on unfa­be the final public event. 
miliarity," said Mike Huckaby,
"Diversity week was created in order to promote awareness a Detroit OJ. of our brothers and sisters who are different than us, but also equal to us," said Keenan Hall 
CLC 

Rector Brother Bonaventure For Graduate Students Scully. "The motto of Diversity continued from page 1 
(pursuing all types ofadvanced

week is 'We are many parts, we are all one body.' Our faith be cnaired by Jonathan degrees such as law, engi11eering, compels us to see the human Patrick, the student body presi­
nursing, etc.) The Citi­

dignity in all persons, regard­dent-elect. Jess of any differences." The ex officio student mem­Graduate Loan Program Diversity week is being co­bers on the Council will also 
offers Federal Stafford Loans sponsored by Lewis Hall who, relinquish their positions to the and our exclusive Grad­according to Scully, has partici­other incoming student offi­pated in the planning and pub­cers, including all newly elect­Assist Loan. 

licizing of the events, as well as ed quad senators, the HPC co­hosting a luncheon on Satur­chairs, and the off-campus co­And, all of the Citibank Grad­day. presidents. 
uate Loan Programs offer: you study or where you cur­
• easy repayment, rently bank, you can count

VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY 

on Citibank, the nation's .low interest rates, 
number one originator of • no application fees,
SUMMER 

student loans, to help finance 
• an easy application process, your education. 
•fast approvals,

SESSIONS '95 

For Medical Students 
• and one toll-free number

(pursuing allopathic and
lill' GRADUATE aad UNDERGRADUATE COURSES 
to call for answers to all

osteopathic medicine) The your questions. 
\ ~ DAY aad EVENING CLASSES 

CitiMedical Loan Program 
at\L_ ~ w:-...T~~USINESS COMPUTER SCIENCE 

offers Federal Stafford For more information Loans and our exclusive and an application for a MedicalAssist Loan. Citibank Graduate Loan, 
call 1-800-692-8200,

For MBA Students 
and ask for Operator 256.

The CitiMBA Loan 
Program offers Federal Stafford Loans and our 
CITIBAN<C'I

exclusive MBAAssist Loan. 
SESSION I 
SESSIOND EVENING SESSION WedDacb)l, May 31 Frida)l, Jaae 30 Wedllada)l, May 31 to WedDacb)l, Jaae 28 to Mooda)l, July 31 
to Mooda, July 31 
CO~OUSREG~~ON 
until the day before each session begins.RECJSTER NOW1 

Yes! I want more information Name of Student ______________ l!ffii and an application for the following Address ____________Apt._____ 
For Summer Bulletin. write: SUMMER SESSIONS OFFICE Or. if you prefer. call: I
Citibank Graduate Loans: 
City·-----------------­
I 
0 All Federal Stafford Loans I
State_____________Zip_____
0 Citibank MedicaiAssist Loan 

Telephone_________________
(jar students ofallopathic mrd

I I
osteopathic medicine) 

Student's Social Security#_____________
0 Citibank MBAAssist Loan CFor better service, be sure to jill in the Social.'iuuruy Number llhUI'f.)
I I
(for business students) 

Student is currently in 0 College 0 Graduale School 
0 Citibank GradAssist Loan

I I
(for graduate students) Year of Graduation ____ Field of Study------­
I. Name of College/Graduate School ----------­
I

Mail this coupon to:
I Villanova, PA 19085-1696 I Are you a previous student loan borrower? 0 Yes 0 No1Please ma11 me acurrenl Summer Bulleun I Citibank Student Loans
I I
P.O. Box 22948 Or for faster service,I Name__ I call 1-800-692-8200,
Rochester, NY 14692·2948 
I I
I Address 1 
I C•lyiStateiZ•P IIJ) I 
-------------------~ 





~----~-------------------------~~­
Tuesday, March 21, 1995 
The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 5 
Buchanan starts campaign to defend values 
By RITA BEAMISH 
Associated Press 
MANCHESTER. N.H. 

Conservative firebrand Patrick Buchanan today kicked off his bid for the GOP presi­dential nomination by inveigh­ing against foreign trade deals, illegal immigrants and the "purveyors of filth and vio­lence" in American society. 
Heturning to the state where he embarrassed President Bush three years ago, the blunt-spo­ken TV commentator used vin­tage Buchanan rhetoric, por­traying himself as the tried­and-tested conservative in the 1996 race and contending that Hepublican "leap conserva­tives" now have come around to his criticisms of tax hikes and affirmative action. 
"This campaign is about an America that once again looks out for our people and our country first," he told a group of supporters at the Manchester Institute of Arts and Sciences. 
"We have a government frozen in the ice of its own indifl'erence ... that does not lis­ten to the forgotten men and women who work in the forges, factories, plants and businesses of this country," he said. 
Instead, the government is "too busy taking the phone calls from lobbyists for foreign coun­tries and the corporate contrib­utors of the Fortune 500," he said. 
Referring to the 37 percent of the vote he won against Bush here in 1992, Buchanan said he was "ready to resume com­mand of the revolution we be­gan here three years ago." 
He said he would call the Na­tional Guard to action if neces­sary to block illegal aliens from entering the country, and he accused U.S. leaders of being too "timid and fearful of being called names," to deal with the issue. 
Recalling his own Catholic­school youth, he said in today's schools, children's minds "are being poisoned against their Judeo-Christian heritage, against American heroes and American history, against the values of faith, family and country." 
Buchanan pledged to use the presidency's "bully pulpit" to defend American traditional values. "Together we will chase the purveyors of filth and vio­lence back beneath the rocks whence they came," he said. 

His campaign rec­ognizes that Buchanan is unlike­ly to do as well in New Hampshire as he did when he was Bush's lone chal­lenger and benefit­ed from a signifi­cant protest vote against the incum­bent president. 
Widely known as the host of CNN's ''Crossfire,'' Buchanan has gar­nered only single­digit showings in early opinion polls, which an~ dominat­
ed by Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas, followed by Texas 
Sen. Phil Gramm. The field also in­cludes former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander and Sens. Dick Lugar of Indiana and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania. 
Three years ago, 
GOP race for the 

White House 

Who's in, who's out and who's still undscidsd on 111e 1996 presidential race: 
IN OUT UNDECIDED 
Pat Buchanan: Conservative commentator who ~ Ji. WILD challenged Bush In lhe 1992 pnmarioa, annoonced 'V CARD March20. 

~r=~~r':~~e:;~s:r::;•~c:J~~ ~ 
declared h~ candidacy Feb. 28. Senate Mojorlly Leader Bob Dele: Plans 1o ..,. announce his candidacy ~ his third While Hooao bid • In early April. Sen. Arlen Specter, Pennaylvanho: On~ likely canCidlllll a~ far who favors abortion rights. 
~~~~=~~~~~~rc~~~~o:::;.~~~~%"~·· ..,.
IM90t·lhan·long sholio win. 
Ahln Koyes: Mid·leval Reagan administrabon .f State Oeperlment official who now has a syndk:aled radiO show. Plano 1o annoonce March 26. 
~a,':,l'loThelormervltepr..ldenlbowed 
Gov. William Weld, -chuoeua: Sold Ftb. 
27 he wUI not run. Diet< Cheney: Bush admillistrtlllon dalanao aocrolary who ..rved ill Congteos and wllll also President Ford's chief of staff. Jock Komp: Former slilr quarterbar:l<, New Vorl< congressman and Bush administration hoosing aocratary. WIHiam Bonnett Fonn er education secmtary and drug adviser. 

Gov. Tcmmy'!l>tlmp!Dn, Wloconoln Gov. Pete Wlloon, Colllornll JemesA.Balrerlll 
Hou..Spoakor Now! Glngrtch Colin Powtli 

AP 
Buchanan wounded the embat­nation's first primary contest. tled Bush with his 37 percent of Buchanan went on to a string of the vote in New Hampshire, the lesser showings and never won a primary. 
This year, facing a steep up­hill battle against a better fi­nanced and organized field of Republican contenders, Buchanan says he will try to build a coalition among those who share his anti-abortion, anti-immigration "economic populism" views. 
He is looking for support from religious conservatives by stressing divisive social issues like abortion and gay rights that other contenders prefer to play down. On Saturday, he told a New Jersey Hight to Life con­vention that Congress should hold hearings on abortion and "totally defund the abortion in­dustry." 
Buchanan also believes he can make inroads with anti-gun control groups, Catholics, Ross Perot's supporters, and those who agree with him that immi­gration and the North Ameri­can Free Trade Agreement and General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade pact undermine eco­nomic opportunity for Amer­icans. 
Buchanan vows to defy the GOP analysts who say he can­not win. 
In the next 10 days he will carry his message via motor 



PULITZER PRIZE WINNER AND DEPUTY NATIONAL NEWS EDITOR THE WASHINGTON POST 
BEYOND .THE PROMISED LAND: THE HARD ROAD TO A NEW ISRAEL 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22 B P.M. CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION AUDITORIUM 
-

page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 21, 1995 
soned trains ran on lines that travelled near the Ginza shop­

Japan
US aid to Egypt in doubt 
ping district and the Hiroo and continued from page 1 Roppongi districts where many By ANTHONY SHADID peace with Israel in 1979. At ernment policies as the center­foreigners live. 
The 1995 Notre Dame Women s History Month Committee Presents 
Gender in the Curriculum at Notre Dame 
with Ani Aprahamian. Physics Patricia Davis. Govemment Penny Russell. History Daniel Sheerin, Classical and Oriental Language and Literature. 
Wednesday. March 22 4:15pm Library Lounge 
reception following 
Sponsored by: Intellectual Life Committee of the Graduate Student Union Gender Studies Department of History Medieval Institute 

piece of its effort. 
But that task, like the tasks that have faced AID since 1975, is unlikely to be met by a mis­sion whose primary objective was never development. 
The Cairo mission is overtly political, AID officials acknowl­edge, and the need to promote Egypt's stability has precluded AID from pushing the reform it considers crucial for long-term growth. 
"The whole reason we're here is because we want to keep the peace process moving along," said John Westley, the Cairo mission director, who previously ran AID programs in Kenya and Bangladesh. 
His comment strikes at the heart of what congressional re­ports, scholars and even AID evaluations point to as the fail­ure of the agency to accomplish more with U.S. largesse. 
The imperative to allot Egypt's aid package every year as a symbol of political support gives Cairo little incentive to push ahead with policy reforms. And when push comes to shove, AID has all too often had to back off, a 1994 agency evaluation of its own projects says. But AID still has the job of spending the money allotted by Congress. 
Aware of the problem, AID has tried to condition some of the money on the progress of reforms, but no funds have ever been permanently with­held. 
"Often political considera­tions won out over development concerns," the evaluation said. "It affected all AID programs in Egypt." 
I~ ~ 
About 10,000 police were as­signed to the subway investiga­tion. Police patrolled subway platforms looking for clues and making sure there were no other packages. 
All day Monday, police and military chemical warfare ex­perts in gas masks and protec­tive clothing examined the five trains where sarin seeped from containers and packages wrapped in newspaper to look like lunch boxes. 
After Monday morning's rush-hour attack, passengers on crowded trains and plat­forms all over central Tokyo fainted, vomited or went into convulsions as the fumes spread. Six people died and more than 3,200 received med­ical treatment. 
Akio Masahata, 21, said he was on his way to work when his train stopped, and an an­nouncement said there had been an explosion. 
"Then I started to smell it," he said, sitting on a gurney at St. Luke's International Hospi­tal. "It hurt to breathe. I could feel it in my nostrils. When I realized it must be gas, people were starting to collapse around me." 
Police removed packages leaking sarin from four subway stations -the Kasumigaseki station which serves the gov­ernment hub of Tokyo, Tsukiji station near Tokyo's largest fish market, the Hongo-san­chome station and Nakano­sakaue. 
But passengers straggled or were carried from stations at stops throughout a wide sec­tion of central Tokyo. The poi-
Japan is no stranger to urban violence. But in the past, there have always been specific tar­gets. Right-wing radicals have attacked newspapers that criti­cized the imperial family or politicians who offered apolo­gies for Japan's wartime ac­tions. 
The attack Monday was a new blow to the self-confidence of a nation that is only now emerging from a severe reces­sion. 
"I can't imagine how anyone could do this," said Masahisa Machida, a 37-year-old office worker who rides the subway regularly. "This is a civilized country-we have no room for terrorism." 
Housewife Setsuke Ozu agreed. 
"It is terrifying that some­thing like this could happen in our subways," she said. "I would never have expected this kind of thing in Japan." 
Tokyo's clean, efficient sub­way network is a source of na­tional pride. The trains run on precise schedules, carrying 2.7 billion passengers a year, about twice as many as the New York subway system. 
Japanese Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama expressed outrage at the attack and im­mediately ordered an investi­gation. He took pains to stress he was on top of the situation, clearly sensitive to complaints his government was slow to re­spond to the Kobe earthquake that killed nearly 5,500 people. 
Investigators were looking at several other mysterious cases of chemical poisoning for clues, including the June deaths in Matsumoto. 
Associated Press 
CAIRO, Egypt 
America's most ambitious overseas development program since World War II-spending nearly $19 billion over two decades -was supposed to put Egypt on the path of economic growth. But political aims, spe­cial interests and competing agendas have undermined the mission. 
The problems point to one of today's biggest foreign policy questions: In a time of tight budgets, what is the goal of the more than $7 billion ih eco­nomic aid sent abroad each year through the U.S. Agency for International Development? 
Should this money promote 
U.S. 
business abroad? Should it strive to alleviate the suffering of the Third World's poor and encourage development? Or should it be simply a payoff to nations that are loyal allies? 

The issues are at the heart of 

U.S. 
AID's search for legitimacy after the Cold War. For more than 40 years, containing So­viet communism was the unify­ing rationale for aid to the Third World. Now, critics say, the agency is adrift, with no clear agenda. 


Egypt and its 59 million peo­ple serve as a useful example -writ large -of where AID money has gone and what it has done. 
The Cairo mission also epito­mizes the bureaucratic battles that have swirled around AID's mission. Facing shifting goals, fights with the U.S. Embassy and interference from Congress, AID has been stymied in pursuing an agenda it deems crucial for Egypt. 
Congress alone has assigned AID worldwide more than 30 tasks, all of which the agency is supposed to perform in Egypt. And U.S. special interests ­farmers, universities, consul­tants and contractors -have exerted significant influence over the agency's direction. An estimated 80 percent of eco­nomic aid funds go directly back to the United States for purchases of goods and ser­vices. 
Egypt's vast assistance pack­age was a reward for making the time, AID was given the re­sponsibility of helping rebuild a country shattered by war, over­hauling a state-controlled econ­omy and promoting devel­opment and long-term growth. 
At $815 million a year, it is AID's biggest program. Al­though Israel receives more American economic aid, the $1.2 billion a year is given in cash with few strings and no oversight by AID. India is far back in third place, with $182 million in aid. 
Much of the money for Egypt has been spent on immense infrastructure work. AID has brought electricity, water and telephones to millions of Egyp­tians. 
A Cairo sewage project -at a cost of nearly $1 billion-is alone bigger than AID's annual Development Fund for Africa, which includes 40 countries. It has laid pipes through neigh­borhoods where sewage once bubbled up in front of crowded brick houses, occasionally sucked into water pipes. 
AID money also has paid for family planning, schools, health, agriculture and imports of U.S. commodities and food. About 9 percent was delivered as cash grants to the govern­ment. 
"Without these investments, this society would have ex­ploded a long time ago," AID chief Brian Atwood said during a tour of the sewer project in Cairo on March 19. 
But after 20 years, Egypt is still mired in an economic abyss dating from the time of AID's arrival: an annual per capita income hovering at $650 and a jobless rate of 17.5 per­cent. Nearly three-quarters of the unemployed are under age 20. 
The economy has registered sluggish growth for a decade. And the pace of efforts to end state control has been slow, running into persistent opposi­tion by the government. 
Without rapid growth, AID of­ficials say, Egypt will fail to cre­ate the 3.6 million jobs by 2000 that are needed only to avoid a further increase in unemploy­ment. Consequently, AID still touts reforms of Egyptian gov­

/".. A
?~~ 7~
I's \ 7 s I 
~ ~ 
s ~I 

From Plain1, PueLio1, and Tundra 
&~tk 1tatwe A~ 7~ o{­z;~, Sb«JUt9, 4#ld s~ 
Tonig~tl 
7:l0 p.m. Notre Dame Stepan Center 
$5 
$3 General Students and
_j 

L
Ad.m.ission ..,...,.___4 Senior Citizens 
s~ ~tie ?!4tiue ?'/~ s~ /ld~tuNI­at~'Da.e 
~-----------------------------------~------~ 
Tuesday, March 21, 1995 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Daschle suspected of bias Released killer charged 
Associated Press check, the Argus Leader re­tors and the pilot died in the ported Sunday. crash, which was blamed on 
with second murder 
Pearson later transferred to Utah and is still with the FAA. "I'd had a bellyful of South Dakota," he said. 
Daschle's relationship with Bellew came under scrutiny last year after the widows of three men killed in the crash of a plane Bellew's air charter service operated accused the senator of trying to end a safety inspection program the compa­ny's pilots were having trouble passing. 

pilot error. 
Pearsoll said Daschle's efforts against him resulted from his aggressive enforcement of FAA rules, adding that Bellew's in­fluence with the senator nearly cost him his job. 
"Before that, I didn't know Tom Dasehle from the man in the moon," said Pearson, who now works in Salt Lake City. 
Bellew is on vacation and not available for comment, said his lawyer, former U.S. Sen. Jim Abourezk. "I do know Murl is an experienced pilot. And I doubt he would fail any check ride," Abourezk said. 
Dunn released a Nov. 21, 1985, letter signed by 23 avia­tion representatives from South Dakota -including Bellew ­that protested actions by Pear­soli and Richard Bown, another inspector who now oversees aviation inspections in the state. 
The letter requested an investigation, saying the two were impossible to work with and intimidated and antago­nized pilots. It asked that they be fired if they could not per­form as professionals or be transferred. 
SIOUX FALLS, S.D. 

Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle demanded the firing of a federal flight inspector who gave a poor rating to the man who taught Daschle to fly, the Sioux Falls Argus Leader re­ported. 
But Daschle's demand was prompted by numerous com­plaints about the inspector, and not the bad rating he gave his friend and teacher, said the senator's consultant, Anita Dunn. 
Daschle, Dunn said, "was ex­pressing in the strongest pos­sible terms his displeasure with a federal employee who, many constituents said, was rude and unprofessional." 
Daschle's demand that Fed­eral Aviation Administration flight inspector Grant Pearsoll be fired came in January 1986, three months after Pearsoll gave the bad rating to Murl Bellew during a routine flight 
Associated Press 

JOLIET, Ill. 
After he was charged with killing a young acquaintance, Steven Pfiel's family stood by him, even paying $100,000 to get him released on bail while he awaited trial. 
Monday, Pfiel was back in court -this time charged with killing his older brother, Roger. And this time, a Will County judge refused to set bail. 
Authorities said they were trying to determine a motive. The Will County Sheriffs De­partment said in a statement that Steven Pfiel has confessed to the crime. 
The tragedies of both fami­lies date to July 14, 1993-the night Pfiel and Hillary left a 
. forest preserve picnic area to­gether. Three days later, police found the girl's body in a vacant Jot. She had been 
The South Dakota Democrat has denied any wrongdoing, saying he was merely trying to streamline government. 
Daschle started pressuring the Forest Service in 1992 to end its inspection program and leave the job to the FAA. He continued his efforts after a plane operated by B&L Aviation Inc. of Rapid City crashed in North Dakota in February 1994. Three government doc-
app 

21st DAVE! 
You look Marvelous! 
Love, Smokie & the old fogies. 

"This was everything I feared. I feared him being out on bond," said Marsha Norskog, the mother of 13­year-old Hillary Norskog, whom Pfiel is charged with killing. 
"I wouldn't wish this on any­body, and this just makes resurface all the things I expe­rienced with Hillary missing.'' 
Pfiel was charged Saturday with first-degree murder after he surrendered to the Crete Police Department, almost six hours after his 19-year-old brother was reported killed. 
Coroner Patrick O'Neil said Roger died of blows to the head and multiple stab wounds. 

stabbed 13 times. 
Pfiel, then 17, was charged as an adult with first-degree murder and armed violence. His trial has been delayed by Pijon's requests for more time to study results of the state's DNA tests. 
In October 1993, the Pfiels, who then lived in the Chicago suburb of Palos Park, got Steven out of Cook County Jail by posting 10 percent of his million-dollar bail. 
Andy Knott, a spokesman for the Cook County state's attor­ney office, said the bond was high but, "We asked for a higher bond or no bond. No one was happy with that bond." 
Seeking to escape threats and questions about the Norskog case, the Pliels pre­pared to move to St. John, Ind. Seeking to reassure residents there, they issued a statement saying: "We feel his (Steven's) innocence is not only a state­ment of his legal situation, but of actual fact. Conlident that this will be proven, we will stand not only behind him but beside him." 

As has always been the case, the best theory is forged in the crucible of experience. . .. The mission of service begins in the activity of some among us. But their experience of the plaintive cry of the poor and disheartened returns to the classroom and research project to seek a better and more just way. In the commitment to justice and peace, in efforts at spiritual and moral renewal, Notre Dame has a mission to society and the Church. 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. Center for President, University of Notre Dame 

Concerns 

)""""Barrett Congratulations and thanks to the over 140 participants in Kimberly Ann Baldige 
Katrina M. Nielsen Christina A. Boreale jeanne Wiltberger Kelly Ann Brocato Sheila A. Maloney Kristina M. Campbell Rubicela Espinoza Amy Carroll
The Appalachia Seminar 
Rupert Aguila AndrewGa!!t'!er Megan Blakey Celine Marie Gomez Chrissa Harley Paul Hedgepeth
The Washington Seminar 
Anne Marie DeLuca Anne Janson Clara Finneran Julie K. Koenig Isaac Duncan Pikka Kovatcheva
The Migrant Experiences Seminar & 
Siyka Kovatcheva Daniel Eliz. Ledezma 
jennifer Mason Colleen McGrath Mari Casi Morris 

Angie Appleby Regina O'Brien Shannon Dunn jennifer Perty Mike Egan Julie Ellen Rogers 
The Environmental Issues Seminar 
who represented The University of Notre Dame and Saint 
Tim Hipp Rose Saari Tara Naughton Christina Tomaras
Mary's College during Spring Break in service and experiential
Laura Stolpman David P. Wride Mellisa Wein Colleen McGrath
learning at thirteen sites across the nation. 
Lauren Aimonette Nicole Cook Ann Goodwin Michael Johnson Edward D. McCoul Brian Morlok Jennifer A. Robin!!On Mary E. Wendell Amy Bacevich Frank ]. Cristinzio Rob Grabowski Mark Kane Yuli McCutchen Laura M. Murphy Eric Ruethling Cristina Zaragoza Patricia ). Baniewicz )omol Cyriac Matthew S. Gunter joseph A. Keil Megan McDermott Sean Murphy Carolyn Schmidt Beth Zumbach Patrick Barredo Heather L Daugherty Richard E. Haaland Bernie W. Keller Michelle Ann McGarry Thomas Ryan Murphy Alan Shaw Benjamin M. Beltramo Deborah Anne Droll N. Gregg Hatch Mark Kocovski Susan McGovern Meggan R. Newland Julie Shepard Justin Aquinas Gaul Shannon Blalock Stephanie Elson Ann S. Hatfield MeghaneKunkel Megan C. McHugh Tadhg O'Gara Megan Shepherd Pai Ling Gee Maureen Blum Kelly Rose Falcsik Bridgette Hebert Susie Laatz Sean O'Brien McKenna John Parolin Kara Spak Cristin L'Esperance Hilary Bollman Renee Flickinger Clare Heekin Alice M. Laeger Pete Minihan Jennifer L Pendleton Brian M. Spellacy Matthew C. Nielsen Megan Borchers Michelle Frasier Mary Hepburn MaiN. LyLisa Mallie Jennifer L Mitchell Carrie Lynn Pfaff Brian Tierney Beth Pader Honora E. Buckley John Patrick Galvin Bob Ho Meghan Maloney Isabelle Mitura Mary Kathleen Plumb Kimberly Tonto Jamie L. Przybysz Angela Lynette Cataldo Kimberly Garbett Brenda F. Hoban Kate Mawdsley Alyssa G. Mondelli Monica L. Price Ross Toth Rachal Eliz. Robertson Jeanne M. Coleman Shannon Gerne Denise Hodnik Carey May Tom Moran Jennifer Raney Greg VanSlambrook Ellen Sova Patrick Collins Sarah Gillen Katie Hogan Brian McConville Elizabeth Morlan Andrea Ray Carrie Wagner Jennifer A. Weber 

------------~­
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 21, 1995 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Cease fire shattered by new Serb shelling 
By SRECKO LATAL 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 
Heavy lighting broke out to­day in central Bosnia and the strategic Tuzla region in the most serious breach yet of a four-month truce. 
There were unconfirmed re­ports of dozens of people killed today in Tuzla, a U.N .-desig­nated safe haven where one shell struck a government army military barracks. 
Outside Sarajevo, Tuzla is the largest city held by the Muslim­led government. Serbs warned last week they might shell Tu­zla's 185,000 residents if the government tried to capture a strategic peak nearby. 
Government troops attacked Mount Majevica a few days ago and heavy fighting continued today. Control of its heights would allow government forces to fire on the most vulnerable section of a vital Serb supply corridor across northern Bosnia. The mountain's TV tower is also crucial for Serb communications links. 
Today's fighting augured poorly for the last weeks of a cease-fire that expires May 1. 
"Today marks the worst sin­gle incident since the cessation of hostilities agreement took effect," said U.N. spokesman Chris Gunness. 
U.N. 
spokesman Alexander Ivanko said there had been 400 to 500 explosions in the region since 5 a.m. 

He confirmed 11 detonations in Tuzla itself, including one shell that hit a Bosnian army barracks. He said there were rumors of dozens of casualties from that hit; unconfirmed re­ports from the Tuzla region fighting varied from 50 to 200 people dead. 

U.N. 
spokesman Lt. Col. Gary Coward quoted an uncon­firmed report from European Community monitors as saying 30 soldiers were killed and 80 wounded in the barracks shelling. 


Hospital officials in Tuzla, about 50 miles north of Sara­jevo, confirmed only two dead soldiers and several civilians wounded. 
Capt. Sultan Babar, a U.N. spokesman in Tuzla, reported heavy troop movments around Majevica the past three days. He said U.N. movements had been severely restricted but that it appeared government forces were on the attack. 
IrYfpoorts 
Jewelry, Accessories, Clothing, and much more! Guatemala•Peru•Mexico•Brazil 
Thailand•lndia•Ecuador 
Clearance Sale! Many New Items! 
3% of profits fund the education of 3 Guatemalan children (up to $1500 for 1995). Any help with donations welcome! 
LaFortune Room 108 Mar. 20-25 St. Mary's Leman Hall Mar. 27-:31 10 a.m. -5 p.m. 
The lighting shows the inef­fectiveness of the four-month truce that took effect at the start of the year to negotiate a permanent cease-fire in a war that has left more than 200,000 people dead or miss­ing since April 1992. The truce expires May 1. 
It has long been expected that the Posavina region north of Tuzla, where the Serb sup­ply corridor is narrowest, would be a key focus of new fighting. 
If government and allied Croat troops cut the corridor, that would weaken Serbs in western Bosnia and neighbor­ing Serb-held parts of Croatia. The corridor is their only link with Serbia proper. 
In central Bosnia, U.N. offi­cials reported heavy shelling around the government-held town of Travnik. 
In Sarajevo, sporadic shelling and gunfire continued. Sniper fire also claimed new victims. Hospital officials reported a woman and two civilian men were wounded. Three people were killed and eight wounded by sniper lire over the week­end. 
Around Sarajevo, Serbs ig­nored U.N. threats of force against big guns pummeling the area. U.N. spokesman Maj. Pierre Chavancy said Serbs fired 126 20mm and 30mm rounds on a road over Mount Igman during the night. 
An Associated Press Televi­sion crew said their armored vehicle took three impacts when it got caught in intense heavy machine gun and anti­aircraft gun fire. No one was hurt. 
The Serb guns violate a NATO-enforced ban on weapons bigger than 12.5mm anywhere within a 12 1/2-mile radius of the capital. 
Chavancy said force would be used if the Serbs are not per­suaded to remove the gun. 
It was the second U.N. threat of force in two days. On Sun­day, French peacekeepers fired back at a Serb gun after planes were fired upon at Sarajevo airport. 
NATO aircraft struck at Serb targets several times last year but the retaliatory strikes and defense of so-called U.N. safe havens like Bihac in the far northwest and Tuzla have proven ineffective. 

English clergymen 'outed' 
By MAUREEN JOHNSON 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

In halting tones, the Church of England's third-ranking bishop says his sexuality is "ambiguous." Another bishop announces he is gay. 
Such statements may be cracking the Anglican Com­munion's official disapproval of homosexuality. 
"We never thought we would succeed so quickly," says Peter Tatchell, leader of OutRage!, a militant gay group dedicated to "outing" prominent people as homosexuals. "We are effec­tively determining the policy of the Chureh of England toward homosexuality." 
Tatchell, a 43-year-old free­lance writer, runs his war against prominent figures he maintains are closet homosex­uals from a $63-a-month apart­ment in a shabby public hous­ing projeet in south London. 
In recent months, public demonstrations, private goad­ings and weekly meetings with his 30 followers have yielded the biggest coup so far. 
On Monday, Tatchell ex­panded the campaign to politi­cians. He announced in a tele­vision interview that he had written to 20 lawmakers from four parties, including two Cab­inet ministers, urging them to come out. 
Tatchell, who started his group in 1990, brushes aside charges of bullying, intimida­tion and intrusion into privacy. 
"There are times when you have to use confrontational methods.... Our tactics have put the hypocrisy and homo­phobia of the Church of Eng­land into the public domain," Tatchell told The Associated Press in interview last week. 
The controversy boiled over this month when the retired bishop of Glasgow and Gal­loway, the Rt. Rev. Derek Rawcliffe, 74, became the most senior Anglican clergyman to reveal that he is gay. 
Days later, the bishop of Lon­don, the Rt. Rev. David Hope, called a news conference. He produced a letter from Tatchell urging him to declare he was homosexual. 
"I am deeply distressed," complained Hope, a 54-year­old bachelor. He said he was celibate, neither heterosexual nor homosexual, adding, "I am talking about being more am­biguous about my sexuality." 
The head of the church. Archbishop of Canterbury George Carey, issued a support­ive statement and other bishops rallied around Hope and de­nounced the tactics of OutRage! 
Stonewall, a gay-rights group headed by the actor Sir Ian McKellen, said outing "alien­ates possible supporters of equality." 
Rawcliffe and Hope were tar­gets of a campaign dating back to November, when Tatchell and followers picketed a meet­ing of the church's governing General Synod, carrying plac­ards naming 10 alleged gay bishops. 
Tatchell, however, admits he doesn't know whether all 10 were practicing homosexuals. 
"Some are, some aren't," he said. 
Five more bishops, including Rawcliffe and Hope, were not named on those placards but were selected for what Tatchell calls "gentle persuasion" ­private meetings and letters saying OutHage! has details of their personal lives and urging them to declare themselves homosexuals. 
OutRage! has yielded swift rewards by focusing on the church's quandary about ho­mosexuality -underlined by a statement March 17 from 36 archbishops of the worldwide Anglican Communion that there were "no easy answers." 
The church's official position is that homosexual acts "fall short of the Christian tradi­tion." The ehurch also bars or­dination of practicing homosex­uals; it allows marriage among priests. 
Tatchell, now an atheist, was raised in a strict, churchgoing family in Australia, and came to Britain in 1971 to avoid the Vietnam draft. He plunged into left-wing politics, losing a Labor Party parliamentary stronghold in 1983 because, as he puts it. blue-collar voters rejected "a bloody queer." 


Don't Worry Buckaroo! You're safe with us. ,Happy Birthday! 
Love. Sarah. Jen and Casi 

rake a 
Best 
Two Convenie11t Locations Close to Campus! 
South Beild -University Comm0i1S 
(across from University Park Mall) 
Phone 272·7653 Mishawaka-Grape and McKinley 
(located near Kmart) 
Phone 2ilG·9656 
--------------------~-----------------------~---~--------------------------­
Tuesday, March 21, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Denny's faces new race suit 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 
Three black customers filed a discrimination lawsuit against a Denny's restaurant Monday, charging that they waited for about 90 minutes for breakfast orders that never carne. 
The allegations mirror 4,300 complaints of racial bias nationwide against the restaurant chain that result­ed in a record $46 million payout to black patrons last year. 
The lawsuit filed Monday in U.S. District Court alleges the restaurant in Salisbury violated the Civil Rights Act of 1964 when service was denied to Chukwuma Uba of Baltimore, Vanessa Miles of Salisbury and Kimble Brown of Mardela. 
The lawsuit names as defendants Rommel Enterprises Limited Partnership, Oscar R. Rommel and Orpah L. Hommel, all of Baltimore. The restaurant is a Denny's franchise. 
Gary Miles, attorney for the defendants, had no com­ment because he had not seen the lawsuit. 
The plaintiffs allege they went into the restaurant early one morning last August. They were told car­ryout service wasn't avail­able and were seated at a table. 

US-Mexico border provokes dispute 
Differing laws, policies spark new conflict 
By ERNEST SANDER 
Associated Press 
TIJUANA, Mexico 
The border between Mexico and the United States is a land where customs and cultures blur. So, it seems, does the law. For instance: 
Say company A is located in Mexico and all of its workers are Mexican. But it has only one customer, company B, an American company that collects all the revenues and pays all the expenses of company A. 
Are they separate companies or one and the same? Should they follow Mexican law or American law? And if one sues the other, should the lawsuit be heard by an American or a Mexican judge? 
These questions are at the heart of a lawsuit filed by 100 Mexican women against a Cali­fornia company. 
Legal experts say this type of frontier dispute will only be­come more common as the United States and Mexico grow ever more economically linked. 
"We're starting to be pre­sented with legal issues in a cross-border context that we haven't dealt with before," says San Antonio lawyer Wayne Fa­gan. 
Examples abound: 
-Emissions from a coal-fired generating plant in the Mexican state of Coahuila prompt com­plaints from Texas. 

-California residents who in­vested in condominiums in Baja California, Mexico, contend the developers went out of business and bolted with their money. 
-A Mexico resident refuses to pay child support to his off­spring in the United States. 
"The combinations and per­mutations are endless," says Richard Page, a San Diego lawyer who has litigated some. border squabbles. "And it aris­es from the fact that we live on a border." 
The suit by 100 former em­ployees of the Exportadora de Mano de Obra plant in Tijuana, which shut down in November, is one of the more graphic ex­amples of the messiness of sort­ing out blame when plaintiffs, defendants, laws and judges don't all come from the same country. 
The women's job at Exporta­dora was inspecting rubberlike o-rings that go into cars, planes and electronics. They are suing National 0-Ring, based in Downey, Calif.. for $300,000 in back pay. 
The crux of the dispute: Who should pay that $300,000 -Exportadora or National? 
Under Mexican labor law, stricter in some respects than 
U.S. law, companies that go out of business must compensate their workers. They are liable for three months' pay, plus va­cation and Christmas bonuses. 
The women contend National is responsible because it con­trolled Exportadora. National disagrees, saying that Exporta­dora, now defunct, was its own company. 
Faced with a U.S. company that had Mexican ties but will not submit to a Mexican court, the women's lawyer has turned to a Los Angeles court, asking it to enforce Mexican labor law. 
Those experienced in cross­border cases say the women's chances of getting a U.S. judge to hear the claim are slim. Fur­ther, the suit and others like it could be a stumbling block to booming North American trade. 
The year-old North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) contains side agree­ments to solve disputes be­tween the governments of the United States, Mexico and Canada over national policies that might hinder trade. 
But the pact did not establish any mechanism for resolving the myriad "micro" conflicts between people and companies from different countries. 
When Exportadora was in­corporated in Mexico in 1989, two owners of National held 90 percent of its stock. Edgardo Sandoval, a Mexican citizen and National employee who was chosen to supervise Exportadora's workers, was given 2 percent. 
By all accounts, Exportadora and National got along well the next four years. 
Then last Nov. 11, National, which had been looking at sites for a bigger plant in Tijuana, began scaling back o-ring ship­ments to Exportadora until it no longer had work for the women. 
The lawyer representing the women, Fred Kumetz, contends that before Exportadora petered out, National was call­ing the shots. National decided, says Kumetz, how many people to hire, set work schedules, handled expenses and salaries, and took in all revenues. 
National letterhead identified Exportadora as "our subsidiary company." It made elaborate requests for copies of payroll checks and petty cash slips, and required detailed reporting on hiring and promoting. 
"When you reach that point, you don't have two separate companies, you have one," Kumetz says. 
For that reason, he contends, it's appropriate for an Ameri­can court to decide the claim because it has jurisdiction over National, whose liability is at is­sue. 
National doesn't dispute that it took over Exportadora's ex­penses and revenues. But it in­sists Exportadora was a sepa­rate entity. 
"Even though we are their only client, those people do not work for National 0-Ring," said spokesman Dan Melendez. 
National's lawyers contend: "California's connection to this lawsuit is, at best, extremely tenuous and remote." They ar­gue that Mexican law, and only Mexican law, applies here. 
The case may take years to resolve. 
Because of that, lawyers say that parties in cross-border dis­putes often are better served through arbitration or other less expensive, less rancorous alternatives. 
But until such alternatives take root, no one expects the level of disputes to slow down. As long as trade throughout North America is growing, say the lawyers, so will the acri­mony. 

HYPNOTIST JIM WAND TONIGHT to Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 7-9 p.m. $2 at the door sponsored by Student Activities Board  




---------------------------~----~ 
Tuesday, March 21, 1995

page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
• 

The Best Way To Save Money On Stuff 
(Other Than Borrowing Your Roommate's.) 
Roommates tend to get weird when you borrow their stuff. (They're funny like that.) Better to get yourself a MasterCard® card. Then 
you could use it to buy the things you really want. And with these College MasterValues® coupons, you'll save up to 40%. And until you get your own place, it's the smartest thing you can do. Roommates are weird enough as it 1s. MasterCard. It's more than a credit card. It's smart money.T" 



Choose either the Red album, with hits from 1962 SAVE UP TO $120 Cruise the "Fun Ships'"and save up to $41!0 perFREE Pair of Shorts (A $23 Value) to 1966 (26 hits including: A Hard Day's Night, cabin on 3-or 4-day cruises when you use your Ticket To Ride and Help) or the Blue album, 1967 Your college ring, from ArtCarved, is a keepsake MasterCard' card. Cruise for as little as $299 perR~~~ay wit~ shvings( an2~ 0~ sh)ortsh too. Receive to 1970 (28 hits including: Sgt. Pepper's Lonely you'll always treasure. Save $30 on 1OK gold, $60 person. 3rd and 4th passengers cruise FREE' Call
1 
5

a pair 0 orts a$ v ue • w en you pur-Hearts Club Band, All You Need Is Love, and on 14K gold or $120 on 18K gold. Call 1-800-1-800-352-3454 for in!omtation and bookings. chase $65 or more on your next catalog order and 952-7002 for more details. West Coast callers dial: 1-800-633-0220. use your MasterCard® card. Call 1-800-551-5558 Revolution)· Buy one Z-CD set for SZS. 98 (a $Jl.98 Ask for COLLEGE MmerValue; • Savmgs! Olfcr whd on ~drcred sJiim~-,.., for a free catalog or to place an order. Mention offer value) or get the pair of CD sets for '47·98-To <hmogh I<J95, hoi•"-'Y hb,·ko"" •rply. M"" book by 5131195. orr" ""'d #RRP-0720. order call 1-800-313-3323. Offer valid 2/1/95 to 5/3tl95. Offer vahd only on purchases u.~mga Ma...tcrCard' card Rate> Jfl' per peMn, double 
1 Offer valid 2/1/95 to 5/31/95 Offer vahd only (QUEGE ~~~~~du;~u;~~~ c~:e~.;ff~dO:nlyn~~ C.OLLEG£ : ~~~;:/;~h:~ts b~';~~~b~~~e~th~~n~ard C.OllEG£ ~~~~~h~~~~~~fe~~~::d1 i::~ha~ra~~;:~~J~~~~le. C.OUEG£ 1
0•) 1 0•) 1 1 0.) 0•) 1
1 on purchase.. usmg a MasterCardillcard Coupon be combmed !th any other offer ordl.Scounr other coupon or discount Offer docs not subjeCt to JV~J!Jblhry_ an~ not rombmable With 
1 cannot be combmed Wlth any other discounts, • 1 Shi m and h dlin adcht.J.orul ($3 SO er • 1 apply to slnppmg and handling Lmut one • Jny other di~ount. Sh1p > Reg~~ try: LJbena, · · · • 1 1 pomts or offer> One li:ee pa~r ofshorts .11 A'_:::' .....c! 1 adl~ss ~the U~ A )gP\ease add applicable sales .11 A_ 1 order per person Some lurut.lttons may apply .11 A_ • Baham"~ *Doublc-z1ppcr nylon "parachute"' AA'-::; · 1 1 per customer •rfdSierVa\~~ 1 t.ax Offer vmd where prohibited '~"ldsterVa\ue:; 1 •r~c~sterVa\l¢ pack Wlth black adjuuablc wam >trap. •rfdSierVa\ues" 1 
l-------------------------------~-------------------------------~-------------------------------L------------------------------~
: Pi1•1 iiiJ.)IlfS' : T I M w A R N E R : I
E 

: [IL:;:::I"';,i~ :;:::Yi}c-forachange v~(ll'f;.~ :
-,..:;:::~~') MOTOPHOTO
1

' . -~~ -"n,,_. '-~~ . Save 15% On Your Next Purchase ' : Save Your dorm or apartment could use a few changes. GET ONE VIDEO FREE I 
50% Off Film Developing 
40010

/l You could use a good deaL Pier 1 can supply both. WHEN YOU BUY THREE Hold on to the good times and your money, too.
Join the club ...and save 40"/o off the >25, three-year mem­We'll take 15% off your total purchase of all regular Video values just for you! Enjoy a full selection of MotoPhoto ... the best place for better pictures guar­bership fee when you use your MasterCard~ card. Enjoy price items, from colorful pillows to fun framed art. 
top-quality videos at discount prices. All videos are anteed! Take 50(% off the regular p1ice of prOcessingdiscounts ofup to 50% on contact lenses, glasses, designer All the supplies school calls for, plus 15% off when priced at S9.95 or less and are 100% satisfaction guar­
and printing when you use your MasterCard)\ card. 
sunglasses and much more at "America's #1 Vision Care you use your MasterCard~ card at Pier 1. 
anteed.Act now and get one video FREE when you Call 1-800-733-6686 for the location nearest you.
Service". For more details, call1-800-USA-LENS and Offer and coupon valid 2/1/95 to 5/31/95. Offer val1d only on purch;~Ses buy three and use your MasterCard11t card. Call u.>mg a MasterCard.. card. Offer valid on regular priced merchandise only, Limit l.mention offer #101. exdudc:s clearance and sale items, deLvcry and other semcc charges. Coupon 1-800-862-7100 for your FREE catalog and ask for Offer and coupon valid 2/1/95 to 5/31/()5. CJSh redemption value must be redeemed at the time of purchase. Offer does not apply to prior 
the COLLEGE MasterValues® offer. l/20. Offer valid only on pur~hasc~ usmg a MasterCard:R. card L1m11 purch~ and cannor be used to purchase Gift 
d
OliEG£ Cern·."ficates. C.oupon is not valid in combina~on (Qll£Gf :~;hc~~:~~h~~roffe~~~;eff~;:~~do~,~eCc-~~~bmed (OlLEG£ Offer vahd only on purchases using a on purchases using a Mas_terCarJ®card. Offer • process, 35 mm film, and standard size prints ~-~ 
Offet and coupon ....-ahd 2/t/95 to S/3\/95. Offer valid 211/95 to 5/31/95. Offer valid only (0UEG£)
With any other coupon ordJscoum. Coupon IS 

0.)
valid at all P1er 1 company stores and parcia-. . , .) patmg franchise stores, Coupon #446.
MasterCard.. card. Offer vmd where rmy not be combmed With any other offer or · · · ' only.Offervalidatpart!Cipanngstorcsonly "-. .. ~ · · . •1 /
0
prohibited by b.w. 
~~~d~~~~~~~h~~~~r U.S. res1dents only. MaSferVa\~·

~\l¢" Offer Not Valid Without This Coupon. MasterVa\t¢: Offer Not Valid W1thout Th1s Coupon. ~lues" 
r---------~~--------;-------1~c3()-()~THE-R()sE~------1-------------------------------r--~~~~;~o/!f~,~~~ll~'l~lf--! I ~ '"~"""'-""'" : THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. PURCHASE OF $75 OR MORE I
I 

Save $2 Off A CD Or Cassette SAVE UP TO 25% : 49o/c Off A S -l Shopping is easy at America's premier specialty retailer Show the special people in your life how much 1 ° peCla of gifi, fitness, recreational, travel, apparel and more. Here's music to your ears ... save S2 on one CD or you care! Save 20% on all floral arrangements and 1 12-Week Subscription Use your MasterCard~ card and save 15% on a pur­cassette priced S8.99 or more when you use your 
gift baskets ofl28.45 or more, and get 25% off a :, Invest in your future and stay on top of current devel-~~~;~:t~r~ f~c:~~s :~~ny;:t:~de:t ~~ ~~~~~ MasterCard® card. One S2 discount per coupon. 
dozen roses when you use your MasterCard~ card. opments with The Wall Street journal. For a limited COUPON #493 Calll-800-THE-ROSE before lpm and have your ' time only, pay just $23 for a 12-week subscription 344-4444,24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to find the ·a1 ·c. d 1· d h d 1 1 h • 1 d bl k store nearest you or for a FREE catalog. 
Offer <i!nd coupon valid 2/1/95 to 5/31/95. Offer valid only on pur-spec! gilt e tvere t e same ay. : to t e nationS ea ing business pu ication. To ta e Offer val1d 2/1!'i5 to 5/31/YS. Offer v;,ilid only on purchases usmg a chases us.mg aMasterCard® card. Cash redemption value 1120. Offer Offer vahd Offer valJd only on purchases usmg a advantage of this special offer, call 1-800-348-3555 MasterCardl!-c<i!rd. Offer not valid on cemin purchasei. M01y not be
211195 to 5131195 1 
void where prohJbm~d, ~xed or restricted. Coupon MasterCard® card Offer va!Jd on products pnced 128 45 or more and please refer to source key 75NE. combmed with Frequent Buyers"' Program, Pnce M<ltchmg Pohcy, may not be combmed w1th any other diScount A bl sal d h dd al auctiOn purchases, or other dncounts or promouons
1 1 1
COlLEGE 1 1 ciiE 1 1
Lm11t one CD or cassette per order Excludes PP JCa e es tax an service c arges are a moaOLLEGE Not val1d on purchas.c of gtft cerufica~ or on
0 0 1 1 c.Gf
~ h ru CouponLsnotvah.dWlthomyotherspew.loffer .) Offervahd2/l/95to5/31/95 Offervahd ) h Th di I bl )
s e mere an se • or cbscount Offer vahd only on dehvenes • preVIous pure ases c scoum 1s app 1ca e • 1 1
WJthm the Contmental Umted States • only on purchases usmg a MasterC~rdil card to, and the nummum purchase based on , 
Offer Not Vahd Without This Coupon 4fast~ Sunday dehvety not guaranteed A1asterVa\ues" : ~rues· : ~~~~;:~~~d ':'~noshll~p~~~ excludes tax, ~\ue;' L ______________________________ .1 _______________________________ ______________ ..... ________________ L _ ~'P~n ~:_q~r:_d _P,S?~C'~~)_!?l.:_ ~ _________ ..... ____ _
1 
0 1995 MasterCard International Incorporated 

~.-~--~------~~~.-~~----~----~--------------------------~~--------~----------~--------------~-----­
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, March 21, 1995 
page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DA~u; OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Maoager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sporu Editor ............................. Mike Norbur Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Edhor ..................... KristaA. Nannc:ry Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo roditor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director ..•..•.•.. Pctc Coleman Saint Mary's Editor ....................Paui Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The OhS<rver is th< ondependem newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Oame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra· linn of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned cdi­l<>rials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoont Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lern:rs and Inside C'...olumns present the views of rhe authors, and nm necessarily those of The Ohserver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com· munity and mall readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leuers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Man.1ging Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint M~q·'s ·631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day EditorI Prodtiction 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

\ 

/ \ 



• Poco APoco 
CoDlDlunalliving for01s lasting bonds and DleDlories 
I don't actually remember what caused laughing, joking around, scaring each mn to take a step back from it all. Why I other to death with supernatural stories stopped staring at the fire or stopped lis­we honestly sounded like a group of wning to the crashing waves. I'm not so friends. Not just acquaintances. Not peo­sure what it was that pulled me away ple who had been thrown together weeks f'rom singing John Cougar songs at the top before and were struggling to get to know of my lungs. Or Godspell. Or the few each other. Not even a team of cowork­mixed-up verses of American Pie we could ers. But we genuinely sounded like a rnmember. But the reason is irrelevant. group of friends enjoying each other's 
It was just after Christmas. Summer company. had arrived to Chile and things were After all our very serious, very profound beginning to settle down as much as can talk, in these few minutes I caught a be expected. Orientation into the life of a glimpse of the true potential of community lloly Cross volunteer was at least living. I think that the prospect of living in officially-over. The group of Associates 
who had just completed the two year 
•~xperience were heading-at least some­tl'hat in the direction of-home. The seven of us who remained were in the middle of a week long beach retreat facing 
Meredith 

the reality of our upcoming year together. We spent our days struggling with the 
McCullough

pillars of the lloly Cross program-ham­mering out ideas, stretching, pulling, turn­ing them inside out to see how "communi­ty," "simple living," "service." "spirituali­ty," and "ineulturation" apply to our time 

in Chile and that which may follow after. community-specifically a faith based We spent our days together-for the first one-is part of what drew me to the Holy time really-in our new communities Cross program. Upon graduation, I knew wrnstling with dillicult questions and talk· I was interested in an overseas volunteer ing our details. We discussed the different experience, but I had nightmarish visions situations of' the four living in city and the of being stranded completely alone in a other three in the "campo" or countryside. remote and isolated village somewhere. I We used words like respect and honesty knew I'd never make it. and got some guidelines for living togeth­I applied to Holy Cross looking for the er. Wn basically challenged both philo­encouragement and support of a commu­sophically and logistically each others nity. This notion of community living ex­visions of Assodate life from all angles. panded quite a bit during our general ori­
And yet, our last night together still entation last August. At this time Scott, 1:ame somewhat of a surprise to me. We Katie, and I (only half of the two Chilean had stopped stretching and wrestling and communities that exist now) discussed at discussing and challenging and were just length our visions of community and in the kind of' hanging out around the bonfire. end formally committed ourselves, in the And I don't actually remember what form of covenant, "to living" in a Christian 1:aused me to take a step back from it all. community, sharing our struggles and our What prompted me to stop participating joys. We committed ourselves "to chal­f'or a moment and do little more than take lenging one another openly and honestly­in the scene bdore me as if I had stum­to grow, to search, to love and to come to bled upon. and stayed to observe, a group a greater understanding or our faith and of strangers. all that it calls us to be" 
I couldn't help but smile at what I saw Experiences in Chile have once more there. shown me how to get beyond the formality With all of' our singing, strumming, of words and concentrate on the living. 
• DooNr:-;auRY 
THEY IAJ4NT 7V 8e 
R£-CMPOIAI&J?U).' 
THEY'!?& 77R&I?OF 
EJUJA?W, UN~­
5/VE, 7lJNXJIAJN f£1)­
&/?A!.-60VCRNMENT1 
Had we known, we could have commit­ted ourselves to attempts at cooking one night a week; to disposing of moldy veg­etables and fruit that accumulate in our partially refrigerated refrigerator; to hanging out until six in the morning find­ing humor in things that just wouldn't have seemed as funny said in the light of day; to leaving the keys in the gate, to for­getting to pay the post ollice bill. 
We might as well have dedicated our­selves to baking 300 brownies in one night; to talking out misunderstandings; to reading our letters out loud; to gathering in the chapel to .check on each other and pray together; to "yogging" yogurt in the backyard; to playing guitar on the front porch; to dancing; to crying; to occasional silence; and to lot and lots of laughing. 
It would have been the same. 
This Holy Cross experience has been an evolution of community in more ways than one. We started in August-one week of community with close to thirty-five Associates serving in the US. We shared our initial ideas and fears together. We played silly games and performed skits. We still keep in touch to some extent. And we depend on the support they send our way in the form of both prayers and finan­cial aid. 
In Mexico it became a community of three. Again we shared our hopes and fears. Added practicing Spanish and tak­ing chocolate breaks. Gathered for fre­quent prayer. But we lived in separate houses. We struggled somewhat with the oddity of trying to become instant friends with a group that other pPop1e chose for you. And it was hard not to compare them to friends we left behind in the states. We were a community of necessi­ty, but I have come to see 'now how close we grew to each other in this short time. 
In Chile we entered into yet a different set of communities. Two houses-Katie, Scott and Don in the campo. Matt, Joelle, Annie and myself in the city. For me, the second evolution of community has taken place in this house. 
And again it has been evolution from a group of complete strangers to something resembling a community of friends. The beauty of the Holy Cross program is the 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
i~5/R-KJ~::J!k 
~EMORC 8UIW!NG 
K£TCRUP. A NEW
I PRI!iO!!:____ 

overlap of two year terms. Those who have been living and working for a year already can offer their own experhmce in support, encouragement and understand­ing to those just arriving. This has been a real blessing-and quite a bit of fun. The challenge of the past few months for me has been living with only second year Associates-trying not to eompare myself to where they are now, trying to realize what gifts I bring to a highly talented, beautiful group of people. trying to bal­ance enjoying the opportunity to meet and get to know their friends in the neighbor­hood while at the same time forcing myself to branch out and find my own place. A challenge also to try to under­stand their distinct perspective in order to better relate to issues they are dealing with instead of solely focusing on my own. 
Interestingly, my Mexico community has been vital during this growth. We are still living separately and the houses are a lit­tle further apart than before. But we manage to see each other at least once a month and those times are truly energiz­ing. 
Also inspirational are thn times when the seven of us get together to form our larger community. To witness how the campo community is growing together; to realize the development taking place in our own house. To experience all of us being together-often sounding much like that night at the bonfire. 
Often sounding like a group of real friends. It is exciting. Exdting to know we will continue to grow together. Excit­ing to feel like we are moving past just "sounding" like friends. Ex<"iling to begin to smooth out rough edges and become more and more comfortable with each other. Not that we won't argue or dis­agree or have different pnrspnctives or philosophies. But-as hard as it is for me to remember-this is all part of really being friends. All part of living in eommu­nity-of growing, searching, loving and coming to a greater understanding of our faith and all it calls us it be. 
Meredith McCullough, Notre Dame '94, is a Holy Cross Associate based in Santiago, Chile 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Jt is no use to blame the looking glass if your face is awry." 
-Nikolai Gogol 
.. 

----~----------------------------------------------~----------------~------­
ACCENT
page 12 Tuesday, March 21, 1995 
Celebrating the rich Native American heritage 
'From Plains, Pueblos, and Tundra' a cultural feast 
By LIZA NYKIEL 
Accent Writer 
''Through my music 
and dance, I wish to 
give voice to the beauty of the land and to help define the role of the human spirit in relationship to the immensity of the illimitable hoop of life," explains Kevin Locke of the National Tour of Native American Music, Dance and Storytelling. Locke and the other members of the tour "From Plains, Pueblos, and Tundra" bring their exhilarat­ing music and dance to Notre Dame's Stepan Center today. 
Although thousands of miles from their familiar mesas, high mountains, and broad plains, the performers of "From Plains, Pueblos and Tundra" not only want to entertain their audi­ence, they aim to educate and create a deeper appreciation for the Native American cul­ture. 
A private, not-for-profit cor­poration known as the National Council for the Traditional Arts (NCTA), dedicated to the docu­mentation and presentation of folk and traditional arts in the United States, is responsible for presenting this tour of per­formers to the Mid West and East Coast. In hopes of repre­senting the beauty and rich his­tory of Native Americans, NCTA has organized this touring group of the Lakota of the Great Plains, the Yuk'ik Eskimo and the Cherokee. 
Because this troop of per­formers will only be touring for a limited time in the Midwest, the Native American Student Association of Notre Dame (NASAND) was eager to invite them to campus. Replacing the yearly Powwow that the cam­pus organization usually orga­nizes, this event offers NASAND the opportunity to educate the Notre Dame community and the surrounding area of their unique traditions. 
"We heard about the per­
formers last spring and decided that we wanted to do something different," said Chad Harrison, current president of NASAND, who played an important role in organizing this event. 
With the help of Susan Joyce, advisor through the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, NASAND was able to generate financial support from both the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the Multicultural Executive Council in order to put on such a large event. This is, in fact, the largest event that the group has ever organized. 
"A goal of ours is for more recognition and awareness of Native American culture both at Notre Dame and in the South Bend community. With so few Native Americans in the area, it is necessary to bring in accu­rate depictions of our culture," 
'Agoal of ours is for 
more recognition and awareness of Native American culture both at Notre Dame and in the South Bend community.' 
Chad Harrison 
said Harrison. 
"From Plains. Pueblos and Tundra" will certainly be an accurate depiction of Native American culture. One of the performances will be from the Cellicion Traditional Zuni Singers of New Mexico, featur­ing accomplished traditional singer, native flute player, and highly respected cultural leader Fernando Cellicion of Zuni. Learning much of his repertoire from his father, Fernando devoted himself to the native 'flute and has since produced four solo recordings. His talent, combined with the voices of the Traditional Zuni Singers, will offer an arresting glimpse of Native American dance and music. 

Chuna Mcintyre, Marie Meade and Josephine Aloralrea, whose home has been the village of Eek on the Bering Sea coast of Southern Alaska, will be per­forming many native dances of the Yup'ik Eskimos. Characteristic of this type of dance is its use of "internal space" which is evident in the dancer's attitude and focus. "When you're dancing," says Mclntrye, "you are in a state of being humble to everything around you." 
Kevin Locke, who has visited the Notre Dame campus once before in 1992, will be per­forming as a dancer and flute player along with Dave and Jennifer Weasel. Locke, whose national acclaim was earned for his skills as a hoop dancer, was reared on the Standing Rock Reservation in South Dakota and developed much of his talent through the help of his uncle as well as the others in the community. Dave Weasel will be performing vocals and drumming, while his seventeen year-old daughter Jennifer will be performing the women's fancy dancing. 
The fourth performance will be given by Gayle Ross, the daughter of John Ross, chief of the Cherokee Nation during the infamous "Trail of Tears." She will be telling stories that have descended from her grand­mother as well as the from the rich Native American heritage. 
"This was our main project of the year," said Candice Pas­cua, current NASAND secretary and 1995 president-elect, "and the advertising committee worked very hard to get ads in the Chicago Tribune, the South Bend Times, and the Observer, as well as getting posters and flyers out to all the dorms." 
With all the work and dedica­tion that has gone into the or­ganization of this project, NASAND hopes that "From Plains, Pueblos and Tundra" will be well-attended. 

The Underground: Weird, wild, and wonderful 
M
usic. Movies. Gossip. Intrigue. Sex. This and more available on the Internet Underground. On the World Wide Web, there are a variety of high brow information servers that provide data on the stock market, the standing of the dollar versus the yen, the latest on NAFTA developments, and President Clinton's Itinerary. But the biggest draw on the Web is probably the Underground. 
CYBERSURF 

AARON VILLARUZ 
What is the Underground? The Underground is a collection of low bn>w, often risque material and infor­mation that delights and entertains the common user. 
Sex is a popular subject, and every­thing from discussion groups to movie clips concerning it abound on the Net. There are entire databases devoted to the subject. And why not? The ubiqui­ty of the subject seems to suggest that it is the world's favorite pastime. Visit the Anna Nicole Smith "House of Worship" or the Pamela Anderson "Home Page." Check out Justin's latest "Luscious Links." Take an on.line Purity Test (available in two versions: virgin and non-virgin) to see where you stand. If you feel guilty about the results, there is a confession booth available in which you submit your sins, receive a penance, and free your conscience! 

Jokes, jokes, jokes! "Your Momma" jokes, Blonde jokes, Lawyer jokes, English Major jokes, O.J. Simpson jokes, even Shakespearean Insults can be found on the Underground. Deep thoughts? You can get a new onn every day from Jack Handey himself. Letterman's Top 10 List? There is a page updated daily that has the latest and an archive of all the past Lists. 
Music. Everybody loves Music. There Mammoth Music Meta Browser has lyric databases, artist bios, release dates, and album info. Check out the Yahoo Music Page. Country, Jazz, Musicals. New ,Age, Rave, Samba. Folk, Progressive, Classical, Reggae, Gothic, all here. Gothic? Who listens to Gothic? Someone does, because there is a page dedicated solely to Norweigan Gothic bands and Clubs. 
Movies. Pulp Fiction, Reservoir Dogs', Quentin Tarantino Pages, all here. Much Ado About Nothing? Got it. The Godfather? We got all three cov­ered. Actor info, trivia, pictures, clips, sounds bites. All this and more avail­able through Underground servers. 
One can explore for days and days burrowing through the Underground. But how do we get there? This is an interesting question because the Underground is not actually a defined entity. There are a variety of gateways to the Underground, and some pages have been dedicated solely to its navi­gation. Here at Notre Dame, John Keating maintains a nifty image browser that features a variety of links.. Dubbed the Underworld Network Navigational System, it allows you to get to weather maps, other Universities, a Star Wars Browser, and even those schnazzy stereoscopic 5-D dot pictures that hurt your eyes when you look at them too long. 
One of the best Underworld Navigators available, however, is Justin's "Links from the Underground." Maintained by Justin Hall, HotWired Magazine's Minister of Propaganda, Justin's Links from the Underground Page features the latest in "Luscious Links" and the "Weird, Wild, and the Wonderful on the World. Wide Web." 
The Underground. It's weird, it's crazy, maybe even a little dangerous, but who can resist? ' 
Technology editor Aaron Villaruz's Cybersurf appears every other Tuesday in the Accent section. 

Links to the Underground featured on Aaron's homepage at http://www.nd,edu/-avillaru 
Deep Thoughts 

httpJ/www.yahoo.com/Entertainment/Hum orJokes_and_Fun/Deep_Thou ghts_byJack_Handey/ 
Top 10 List'i 

httpJ/www.yahoo.com/Entertainment!Tele vision/Show s/T a! k_S how s/D avid _Letterman!Letterman_s_ Top_ Ten_List/ 
Purity Test http://phenom, physics. wisc.edu/-fosdaVPur ity/ 
Your Momma Jokes http://silver, u c s. indian a. e d u/ -jrnkeller/yomama.html 
Shakespeare Jokes httpJ/alpha,acast.nova.edu/cgi-binlbard.pl 
Lawyer Jokes http://www ,clark.net/pub/rmd/paramountll a\1\-joke,html 
Confession Booth http://anther.learning.cs.cmu.edu/priest.ht ml><B>Confession Booth<IB>-IA>. 
Justin's Links from the Underground http://raptor.sccs.swarthmore.edu/jahalVin dex.html 

_______....,..._ 
ACCE-NT
Tuesday, March 21, 1995 page 13 

--· The Observer/Eric Ruelhling 

The beauty of the Appalachian mountain region is undeniable. 
Appalachian action 
By ANGELA CATALDO 
Accent Writer 
T
he Appalachia mountain re­gion is a very dynamic and in­teresting part of this country, but just how interesting is not clear until one has actually spent time there, working and interacting with the individuals that live there. Many Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross students did exactly that last week as they participated in the Appalachian Seminar, one of four alternative spring break programs offered by the Center for Social Coneerns at Notre Dame. 
The program is a one credit course that fl)quires that students be sub­merged in the Appalachian eulture, linking education with service. It is unique not only beeause students receive eredil for their participation, but also beeause the entire program is student generated. A student task force does all of the planning and preparation beginning with pre-trip meetings and resuming in the grad­ing of reflection papers due after the break. They contact the sites, arrang­ing student arrival and hous_ing plans. This semester there were eight sites, spanning four states. 
Thirteen students served at the Cranks Creek Survival Center (CCSC), a social center founded by locals Bobby and Becky Simpson. The CCSC is located in Cranks Creek in llarlan County, Kentucky, on the Virginia border. The center has been active since the 1970s when major flooding niTected immediate nend in the area. The center has been growing rapidly nver since. About 900 volunteers stay at the center every yea~. hoping to lwlp in whatever way possible. 
The group arrived in llarlan late Sunday evening, and the first thing they noticed was how very dark it was. llad it not bnen for the few small street lights scattered on the mountainsides, the area would have been pitch black. The homes were mem outlines in the dim light. The group was disappointed that they could not evnn see the area that they would be living in for the next six days. 
Upon arriving at the center. the students were surprised to learn that they wern not the only students there. The group was joinnd by stu­dents from Eastern Illinois University, Western Illinois University, and Canisius College. The group's assignment was to work on various houses in the area building additions. Some of the people in the group had been to Appalachia before, some had even been to Cranks Creek, but none of them knew what to expect this time. 
On Monday morning, site leader Denise llodnik set out with the other group members Angela Cataldo, Carey May, Shannon Gerne, Bob llo, Brian McConville, Eric Huethling, Laura Murphy, Alice Laeger, Debbie Droll, Meghan Maloney, Mary Wendell, and Kate Mawdlsey for a hike before going to the day's work­
' unfortunately, the beauty 
of the mountains was muted by the sadness of the extreme poverty in the area.' 
site. The members of the group were immediately struck by the beauty of the area. Being from Indiana and other assorted "flat" states, many had never seen such amazing moun­tains before. 
Unfortunately, the beauty of the mountains was muted by the sadness of the extreme poverty in the area, for as they looked down the moun­tainside, they could see many run­down shaeks. The mountainside was heavily littered with garbage, and the first instinct was to immediately start picking it up. Part of the prob­lem was that the area's waste center had closed down, leaving the people without trash service. 
Questions like "Why don't they do something else with their trash?" and "Do these people really wish to live this way?" were running through everyone's head as they viewed this scene. Were these people happy, or had they given up on life? 

The answers to these questions started to form when the group start­ed working that' day on a house owned by a man named Henry. The assignment was to build an addition to his one room home. It was hard work. but the students' discussions with Henry and his neighbor, Chester, made it rewarding. The two men briefed the group members on the area, explaining how everyone knew everyone and about the envi­ronmental and social problems of the area. There was not much alcohol abuse, according to Henry and Chester, mostly because Harlan is a dry county, but they did have prob­lems with marijuana. 
They also enlightened the group with the fact that many children in the area are abandoned, many of whom eventually live in a children's home nearby. Environmentally, the coal industry had stripped the area. One of the students in the group, Shannon, commented how she had never really understood what was meant when people talked about "the earth being raped" until she had been in Appalachia. Entire mountain­sides were washed or blown away. 
Another problem is the logging industry, which has yet to be regulat­ed. Chester said that the new regula­tions would not be established for another year and, until they are, the loggers are going to try to cut down as many trees as they could. Chester said that he wished he could buy up all the mountains to be certain that no one ever touched them. 
Thus. the answers to some of the questions the students had were answered through these conversa­tions with members of the communi­ty. They had not given up, but they did feel beaten. They were happy de­spite their problems, and they cared very much about their mountains. 
No longer can anyone who visited with Henry and Chester feel inade­quate about their knowledge of the Appalachian region, for by the end of the week, they had explored many abandoned coal facilities, climbed a mountain, helped build an addition to a house, cleared an enormous field, and met some of the most wonderful people in the world. The work was hard, but no one regretted spending their spring break in this way. No beach in Florida could have taught these students what they learned this past week in the mountains of Kentucky. 
The students who participated in the seminar will never forget Bobby and Becky or Chester and Henry, nor should anyone forget the problems present in Appalachia. The rural problems in this country are just as prevalent and deserve just as much attention as the other problems con­fronting our society today. 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
What did you bring back from break? 
By RYAN J. GRABOW 
Nationally Registered Emergency Mt-dical Technician 
Welcome Back from Spring Break '95! Whether you spent your days at the beach, on the slopes, or at some point in between, I hope the time off was safe and enjoyable for one and all! Unfortunately, besides the sunburns that many of us lily white domers are suffering from, some of us may have brought back more than just souvenirs from our Spring Break fes­tivities. If you got lucky over break or know someone who did, here are some things to look for over the next few weeks ... 
Painful Urination 
One of the most common complaints associat­ed with sexually transmitted diseases, pain or a burning sensation during urination, is the tirst "red flag" that should alert you that somethi~g is wrong. Sometimes accompanied by a white or yellow discharge, painful urination associat­ed with an STD is usually caused by a chlamy­dia infection (the most prevalent of all STDs) or gonorrhea. Symptoms do differ between the sexes. In men, chlamydia is almost always as­sociated with painful urination and a possible discharge, while the symptoms of gonorrhea are most often frequent urination, buming dur­ing urination, and some discharge. For women, a yellow discharge is usually the only symptom of chlamydia, while painful urination associated with discharge is a common indicator of gonor­rhea. However, about 60% of infected women have no symptoms. The incubation period for gonorrhea and chlamydia are very short, thus symptoms will present themselves two to ~en days al'ter exposure. It is important to reahze that for women, painful urination is more often a sign. of a eommon medieal problem _such ~s a urinary tract infection or bladder mfectwn, than it is a sign of an STD. Hegardless of your history, seek medical help as soon as.this symp­tom arises. 
Itching Genitalia 
One of the first telltale symptoms of herpes, itching associated with burning, soreness, and small blisters in the genital regirn appears about a week after becoming infected. When these lesions first appear, one may also feel sick with a headache and fever and may have enlarged and painful lymph nodes in the groin. Females may experience painful urination if the urine comes in contact with the sores. Occasionally, cold sores may also appear around the mouth. It is important to get checked early if any of these symptoms develop. Herpes cannot be cured, but early intervention helps to prevent or reduce the severity of an attack. 
Vaginal Irritation 
Sex on the beach js a romantic encounter many may dream about. b~t in actual_ity the experience may leave you with morn pam than pleasure. No matter how careful you are, sand has an uncanny way of getting into everything. If during a moment or passion some sand hap· pens to find its way into t~e vagi~1a .. a ~oman may sutler from vaginal pam and IITitn:twn.due to the abrasions it may cause. AbstentiOn from intercourse is the best treatment until pain sub­sides, but if other symptoms present themselves or if irritation lasts mom than a week, seek medical treatment. 
At Notre Dame, one can obtain private STD testing through University llealth Services by making an appointment lFirst name o_nly) .to meet with one of the doctors on the Umvers1ty staff. Students only pay for the lab work and any possible medications neede?. so eo~ts are considerably less than at an outs1de hospital. In addition all bills can be paid in cash to insure the ano'nymity of the patient. S<~int M~ry's Health Center also assists women m obtammg STD testing through private appointments, maintaining the anonymity of the student. Good Luck and Stay Healthy! 
Comments or Suggestions e-mail Ryan at Ryan.J.Grabow. I@nd.eclu 
.. 

' 
r­
~ 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 21, 1995 
•NCAA 


First round a tough act to follow 
By JIM O'CONNELL beating win over Weber State. 16 will also be without a team Associated Press The play was similar to North from the Big Ten -the first Carolina State's 54-52 title time that's happened.The 15 games left in the 
game win over Houston in 1983 Six Big Ten teams started and NCAA tournament have a tough when Lorenzo Charles dunked five lost in the first round. act to follow. Dereck Whittenburg's airball at Purdue lost in the second 
With six overtime games, a the buzzer. round. few early upsets and a bunch of Lawrence Moten's timeout As bad as the first two rounds blunders and buzzer beaters, when Syracuse had none left in were for the Big Ten, they were the first two rounds had every­a loss to Arkansas immediately perfect for the ACC, which has thing a basketball fan could 
had people bringing up Chris four teams still alive -one in 
want. Webber's similar mistake in each region. The SEC has three One TV was not enough. Michigan's 77-71 championship and the Big Eight and Big East The next act starts Thursday game loss to North Carolina in still have two. 
night with the first games in the 1993. Each region has its own sub­round of 16. Following the Those harried endings capped plot this weekend. 
Beatles on the Ed Sullivan four days of OTs, upsets and In the East, second-seeded Show might have been easier. emotion. Massachusetts figures to con­On Sunday alone, three of the Old Dominion's triple OT win tinue its bump-free ride to the tournament's greatest moments over Villanova was the tourna­regional final, playing six-seed­looked like some of the NCAA's ment's longest game in 13 ed Tulsa. No. 1 Wake Forest best highlights from years past. years. Two No. 14 seeds won, and No. 4 Oklahoma State send 
Tyus Edney's length-of-the and another could have if a their inside-outside combina­court drive covering 4.8 sec­
buzzer shot hadn't bounced off tions and tremendous defenses onds for UClA's game-winning the rim. And for every group of against each other. shot against Missouri looked buggers and jumpers, there If top-seeded Kentucky gets
like Danny Ainge's sprint that were just as many locker rooms past No. 5 Arizona State and shocked Notre Dame in BYU's 
full of criers. No. 2 North Carolina beats No. 51-50 win in the 1981 East The eight highest seeds -6 Georgetown, there would be a Regional semifinals. 
four No. 1s and four No. 2s -Southeast Regional final be­
Don Reid's rebound and bas­are still going, and none of the tween the two winningest pro­ket off Allen Iverson's airball remaining teams are seeded grams in college basketball his­gave Georgetown the buzzer-lower than sixth. The round of tory. 


Bobcats rest up for Hawkeyes 
By GREG SMITH ing 11 steals in the December an opponent's conference. Associated Press game. Against DePaul, it was Tom "They got taken into overtime Kleinschmidt. IOWA CITY, Iowa in our tournament by Cal­Tuesday night, it will be GaryThe Bobcats of Ohio Irvine. I knew right then that Trent, who was named MVP of University should have fresher 
wasn't the real Ohio U. I was the Mid-American Conference legs when they revisit Carver­worried we would see a differ­for the third consecutive sea­Hawkeye Arena for a second ent version the next night. I son. 
round NIT game against Iowa. don't think they ever did get Trent led Ohio with 31 pointsBobcats' coach Larry Hunter regrouped," Iowa coach Tom and 10 rebounds in his team's refused to blame fatigue for his Davis said. loss to Iowa while Jess Settles 
team's 91-75 loss Dec. 3 in the "This is going to be a rested, had 26 points and 12 rebounds Hawkeye Classic in Iowa City. fresh Ohio team," he said. for the Hawkeyes. But it's clear he expects more 
"They are a better team than from his team in Tuesday what we saw in that particular "It will be a good match up.night's rematch. game." He's an NBA prospect. The fact 
"We've got to play with more that we've seen him before will enthusiasm and intensity," he 
Iowa beat DePaul 96-87 in a make him all the tougher," said. "We had better do a 
first round game last Settles said. whole lot of things differently." Wednesday. Ohio advanced on Settles was fine in December, 
The Hawkeyes (20-11) shot Thursday with an 83-71 victory but a sore back forced him out 
51.7 percent from the field and over George Washington. of the lineup for seven games55 percent from 3-point range 
It will be the second straight and the sophomore has been as they harassed Ohio (24-9) game the Hawkeyes have faced playing with a brace while try­into 17 turnovers while collect-the most valuable player from ing to round into shape. 
Replacement Mariner saves kids, saves game 
By BEN WALKER and retired after the season to Associated Press spend more time with his fam­ily.Seattle Mariners reliever Dave Graybill faced a different kind 
Since then, Graybill has been of save situation even before he a firefighter in Glendale, a few pitched Monday. 
miles from the Mariners' Graybill, a replacement player 
spring-training complex in who also holds a regular job as 
Peoria. Through a friend who a firefighter in Glendale, Ariz., 
scouts for Seattle, he came 

helped rescue badly burned 18­back to baseball last month. 
month-old twins early in the 
"I should have never quitmorning. Later, he worked two when I did," he said. "I can still scoreless innings in the throw 90 miles an hour and 
Mariners' 6-5 win over the 
throw strikes." Chicago Cubs. 
Graybill pitched two hitless "I had the worst day of my life 
innings Monday against the in one career, then had one of 
Cubs in Mesa. In three exhibi­the best days in my other 
tion games, he's worked five career," said Graybill, a mem­
innings and given up four hits ber of the 1984 U.S. Olympic and one run. He's walked three baseball team. 
and struck out two. 

"There I am, holding a little Graybill usually works a 24­baby boy, burned so bad that 
hour shift, sleeping at the fire­his skin's falling off, all over the house, then gets 48 hours off. place, all over my arms. He's 
"Normally, I try to get six or looking up at me, like, 'please 
seven hours of sleep on the 

help me.' I'm looking at death nights before I pitch," he said. right in the face," Graybill said "I was sound asleep when the in a telephone interview from 
call came in around 4:50 this the Mariners' camp in Peoria, 
morning.''Ariz. Graybill's truck arrived at the "A little later, I'm out in the 
fire a few minutes later. As sun, spitting sunflower seeds, soon as he got there, the twins' playing a game and having 
mother handed him the babyfun," he said. "It was an unbe­
boy.lievable roller coaster ride in "There was no way to pre­10 hours. I just hope I never pare for something like that," have to go through something he said. "I probably held him like that again." for only 30 seconds to two min­
utes. I seemed like a year or The twins, Dylan and two. I was just trying to helpDanielle, were reported in criti­put gauze on him, make him 
cal condition at Maricopa comfortable.'' Medical Center in Phoenix with burns on 65 percent of their By the time Graybill was done 
bodies. Their parents were in at the scene and finished with a serious condition with inhala­follow-up meeting, it was about tion injuries. Investigators said 8:30 a.m. MST and he needed 
a candle may have started the to get to the Peoria Sportshouse fire. Complex to prepare for the Graybill, 32, starred at 
game. Arizona State and was picked "A lot of guys on the team 
by Montreal in the second think I have an interesting job round of the 1984 draft. He away from baseball. When I get eventually reached Triple-A, to the clubhouse in the morn­
but did not pitch in 1988 be­ing, some of them ask me how cause of an arm injury. He re­the night went," he said. turned in 1989 with the "Today, I told them, 'long California Angels' organization, night."' 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

ROBIN HOOD  SUMMER JOBS  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­ 000 The Copy Shop 000  HEY SENIORS:  
NOTICES  Thurs 8/1030 Montgomery Theatre $1  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  HOOD FURNISHED HOMES NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3·8  LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR  I need 2 extra tickets for gradua­lion. If you need only 2, would you  
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES:  FRANKENSTEIN  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  STUDENTS 2773097  CONVENIENCEIII  consider ordering 4 and giving me  
Are you looking for that service pro- Fri. &Sat.  NEAR LAKE PLACID  Phone 631-COPY  the other pair? NO Women: will  
ject that really makes a difference, and is a lot of fun? Look no fur- Cushing Auditorium 8/10:30  CALL 1-800-786-8373  MOVE OC! 180/mo w/3 fern  ••• SUB presents •••  make it worth your while. NO Men: will be very appreciative. Steve  
!her•.. THE  SOPHOMORE  CLASS  * * * *  TROOP NO classes  ........  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ @ Turtle Creek, summer/95-96 273-6437  the HILARIOUS  634-1644. Thanks.  
SERVICE  PROJECT  Tues & Thurs (Mar. 21 & 23)  Seasonal & full-time employment  INSPIRATIONAL  From the Cave to the King  
Youth Mentoring at the NE  ........  219 Rockne at 8 PM TROOP NO classes  • • • •  available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits &  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS  KEVIN HUGHES, the World's Funniest Advisor on  Spring 95' -I saw Elvis twice before I  
Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS AND FRIDAYS 2:30-3:30-4:30 meet at room 161 or Main Circle  ILOST & FOUND I bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. N55842  232-2595  LIFE, LOVE, and LAUGHTER for Relationships in the '90s @ 7:30p.m., Sat. March 25 @  reached Memphis. -A coke and a smoke, please. -A generator?  
Questions?-Brian Tierney x1058  FOUND -Baseball cap @ the  Spring Break/Summer Jobs  FOR SALE  The Library Auditorium Bring a date and it's FREE!!  -All this campfire needs is a little lighter fluid.  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  Grotto on Fri. 3/3. Can be claimed  Learn while you earn!  -Those girls are dangerous!  
Are you going to read those things  at 227 Cushing.  $325/week  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  "His subject is sex, his message is  -No really, it's okay to stand up in  
again? I think not. 2323-2342  Citizen's Action Coalition is hiring  at $85,900. First floor location.  love, and his tool is laughter!"  the canoe.  
Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard  LOST: gold hoop earring on  for our entry level campaign posi- Finished basement with full lavale­ -Y'all come back again, ya  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  Tuesday( Somewhere between 101 DBT and 3rd floor Nieuwland)-i:all Kelley x3427  lions. Full/Part time, Travel, excel­lent office atmosphere. Hours 2-10, M-F, call for appt. 232-7905  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call  To the girl on the United Limo who knew it was Weber St., call x2029  hear. -Get me to a Taco Bell !!! -Camping in downtown Memphis  
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60, FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­ LOST on FRI 3/10  (616)946-0700.  F M STEREO COLLEGE RADIO FOR THE NOTRE DAME COMMU­ -I'm sorry, did I say "do you want to dance", I meant "you look fat in  
..  SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­NEE, 219-773-2034.  HEART-SHAPED silver RING Jade in middle between North Dining Hall  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING-Earn up to $2,000+/month working  486/33 MiniTower PC 230MB  MITY? PLEASE FILL OUT THE WVFI  those pants." -Salt, salt, where's the damn salt!  
and Center for Social Concerns in  on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com- VGA Monitor, Modem & Softwares  STUDENT SURVEY THAT IS IN  
###########################  morning! FAMILY HEIRLOOM!  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  $850 OBO Call Jewan 234-1285  YOUR MAILBOX AND RETURN  
EVER WANTED TO LEARN TO JUGGLE?  REWARD!!! Call Rana x1373.  Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment  Brother wordprocessor for sale.  TO THE DROPOFF SITES LOCATED AROUND YOUR MAIL  you've got to move it, move it...Where's Mr. Bigote ... Who's up  
Come to the Juggling workshop @ the LaFun Ballroom on 3/22 from 7p.m.-9p.m. There will be •••••••FREE FOoo••••••..  WANTED FREELANCE GRAPHIC ARTIST,  available. No experience neces­sary. For more information cal 1­206-634-0468 ext. C55844  Separate monitor and 3.5" floppy disk drive included. Best offer. Call Jason at x1 852  AREAS OR TAKE TO THE EITHER THE STUDENT GOVERN­MENT OFFICE OR TO THE WVFI STUDIO. BOTH ON THE SEC- for some Happy Sticks? -just a quick preview -wait til next week!!!!  
as well! Brought to you by SUB. ###########################  work at home · Cartoon back­ground helpful -Call 219-259-8822.  FOR RENT  I I  PERSONAL  OND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. NOW IS THE ONLY TIME!!!  LIVE... here we· come;)  

Tuesday, March 21, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 

• OLYMPICS 
Hawks beat Clippers Worker killed by crashing tower 
behind Blaylock's 35 
By MICHAEL PEARSON 
Associared Press 
ATLANTA 

An ironworker fell to his death Monday when one of nine 150-foot light towers at the unfinished Olympic Stadium buckled, unleashing two banks of lights on workers below. 
Two other workers were injured, one seriously, when lights fell from the weakened structure and crashed to the 85,000-seat stadium's concrete bleachers. 
The cause remained unclear, said Chuck Winstead. project director for Atlanta Stadium Constructors, the general con­tractor. Construction was halt­ed as an investigation began, but officials said some work could resume Tuesday. 
As constructed, the tower re­sembled an inverted L with two light banks attached to the ends of its horizontal beams. The worker who died was hanging from the top section on a safety harness when it folded in. 
Construction worker Thomas Houston said he heard a low, loud rumbling. 
"When I looked, I saw the guy flipping. He didn't move, man. That was it," Houston said. 
"At first it was slow, then it was just like that," said Rick Jones, who witnessed the col­lapse as he drove by the sta­dium. 
Witnesses said the dead man landed a few feet below one of the light banks, which fell away from the tower as it collapsed. The second worker, who was hospitalized at Georgia Baptist Hospital in satisfactory condi­tion, suffered hip and head in­juries when a light bank fell on him, authorities said. 
Only one other worker was in­jured, and he refused treat­ment, said Fire Department spokesman Tim Szymanski. 
Olympic officials and the con­tractor did not name the in­jured workers. 
The tower had been in place for about a week. No structural work was being done Monday, but the worker who was killed had been performing "minor, inconsequential" work on the top just before it collapsed, he said. 
Agents from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Atlanta building inspectors were at the scene, Winstead said. 
The $207 million stadium will be the site of the 1996 Summer Games' opening and closing ceremonies, as well as track and field events. It is scheduled for completion by January 1996. 
Winstead declined to say what impact the accident could have on construction deadlines. 
The stadium, centerpiece of the 1996 Summer Games, was "topped off' by union workers last week when steel work was completed. 
During the ceremony a tree was hoisted to the top of the structure as a symbol that no lives had been lost during con­struction . 
By ED SHEARER 
Associared Press 
ATLANTA 

Mookie Blaylock scored a ca­reer-high 35 points Monday night and the Atlanta Hawks, trailing most of the night, ral­lied to beat the struggling Los Angeles Clippers 106-102. 
The Clippers, who lost their 13th consecutive road game, had a chance to tie with six seconds to play but Loy Vaught missed a 3-pointer from the right corner. 
Tyrone Corbin grabbed the rebound, was fouled and hit 1 of 2 free throws with two sec­onds left. providing the final margin as the Hawks won for the ninth time in 13 games. 
Vaught led the Clippers with 20 points and Pooh Richardson and Lamond Murray each added 18. Steve Smith added 19 points and Stacey Augmon 17 for Atlanta. 
The Clippers, who have lost four of their last five games, took the lead in the first quar­ter, stretched it to 55-45 on Eric Piatkowski's basket 1:38 before halftime and stayed in front throughout the third quarter. 
The Hawks took an 84-83 lead on Ken Norman's 3-point­er with 10:26 to play and five minutes later Richardson's 3­pointer gave the Clippers their last lead, 92-91. 
Blaylock, who also had one steal to give him 999 in his ca­reer, then hit a driving layup with 5:02 remaining, putting the Hawks in front to stay. 
Blaylock's 35 points bettered his previous career best of 32 set against Golden State last Feb. 1. 


APPALACHIA SEMINAR TASK FORCE 
We invite you to apply for the '95-'96 Appalachia Task Force. The Task Force consists of six undergraduate students who are responsible for creating, implementing, and maintaining the Appalachia Seminar. The Task Force is dedicated to teaching experiential learning as a means to enhance h1gher education; therefore, we are always in need of interested, enthusiastic, and committed persons to join us. 
If you have participated in the Appalachia Seminar, please consider applying to the Appalachia Task Force. 
APPLICATIONS: 
For further information: Will be available at the Center on March 24, 1995 Applications are due: Friday, March 31, 1995 
Laura Stolpman, 634-2145 or Shannon Dunn, 273-0741 Angie Appleby, 631-9473 Dr. jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 

• PROF!:SSIONAl TENNIS 
Seles' attacker faces a retrial 
By NESHA STARCEVIC 
Associared Press 
HAMBURG, Germany 
Will Monica Seles return to tennis if the man who stabbed her nearly two years ago is put behind bars? 
Seles was stabbed in the back by an unemployed east German as she sat on a bench during a changeover in a match at Hamburg on April 30, 1993. 
Her assailant. Guenter 
Jogger, 
Hope everything came out OK on your 20h. 
We love you, Ellen, Amy, Sue, Becca, Carla, Clare, Moira 
CLASS OF '96 
This Is Our Last Chance! 
The Senior Class Officers are accepting applications fvr positions on the following committees: 
• Alumni[Senior Club 
-Fundra1sing-Publicity·Service 
• Senior Week/ Welcome Back Week -Class of '96 Alumni Club 

-Class IJ'rips
• 
Senior Concerns 

• 
On-Campus Activities 


-Graduation 
Kevin KUWIK President 
Get Involved -The More, The Merrier!!' Applications can be picked up in the Student Government Office, and are due by Friday, March 24th. 
Paul Nate BERREniNI EBELING Vice-President Treasurer 
Kate 
GRISHAM 
Secretarn 
J 

Parche, went free in October 
1993 after receiving a sus­
pended two-year sentence. 
The prosecution and the 
lawyer for Seles, who was a co­
plaintiff in the trial, appealed 
against the mild sentence and 
the prosecution brought the 

case before a higher court for a 
retrial, which started today. 
The lenient sentence outraged 
Seles, who is still suffering from 
the emotional impact of the 
attack and hasn't played since. 
While the half-inch deep 
wound healed quickly, the for­
mer women's No. 1 still has yet 
to set a date for a possible 
comeback. There has been 
some speculation in the 
German media that Seles might 
eome back if Parche is finally 
sent to prison. 
During his first trial, whih lasted two days, Parehe testi­fied that he plunged a kitchen knife into Seles' back not be­
fj•­

cause he wanted to kill her, but 
because he wanted to disable 
her long enough for Steffi Graf 
to regain the No. 1 ranking. 
lie spoke of his obsession for 
Graf, Seles' German rival, and 
his depressions when she start­
ed losing to Seles. 
Cedar Point has 3,500 summer Jobs available for 1995. Housing available for those 18 & older. 
Earn up to ss.30 an hour. Interviews will be held at: 
University of Notre Dame LaFortune Student Center Sorln Room Thursday, March 23, 1995 10:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
No appointment necessary. For more 
infonnatlon, call (4'19) 627-2245. EOE 
~Pornt
AMUSEMENT I'AIUC/RISORT 

-------~----------~--------~-~---~---­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 21, 1995 
• Nfl • r•BA
-
Real NFL hero retires 

Michael's back in the spotlight 
from age, not drugs 

By MIKE NADEL came back out today. I feel The Bulls next play Associated Press fine," Jordan said after Wednesday against the Celtics
By MARY FOSTER He came back and made a 

Monday's two-hour practice. "I in Jordan's final visit to Boston
Associated Press great career and a great life 

DEERFIELD, Ill. was very surprised. The com­Garden. ''I'm just happy tofor himself." 
Michael Jordan has rewritten petitive side of me wanted to be have an opportunity to play in
NEW ORLEANS "I don't know why others 

the NBA record book, has sold in there. But physically, I was a it before they rip it down," he
Defensive lineman Frank haven't come back," Warren 

shoes and sports drinks simply little weak. That's one of the said.
Warren didn't have an out­said. "Things were bad enough by smiling, and has been wor­reasons I kind of started His first home game is Fridaystanding career with the New for me that I knew it had to 

Orleans Saints, yet he has a stop." shipped by fans from Chicago cramping up, because my body against the Orlando Magic. to Shanghai. wasn't really ready for it yet." Jordan hopes to ·use those
distinction no other NFL player It was a terrible year, Warren There's no more famous ath­How will he deal with leg games, and the 14 regular-sea­

can claim. said, away from the game he 

Warren, who bid a tearful lete on the planet. cramps in the future? son contests that follow, to get
loved, cut off from teammates, 

Yet there was Jordan on Monday, one day after his elec­Gatorade," he said. Only Scottie Pippen, B.J.
goodbye to pro football Monday routines and patterns that "Just drink a lot of acclimated to his teammates. 
after 13 years, is the only NFL were a way of life. 

trifying comeback to pro bas­Then he flashed that $30 mil­Armstrong and Will Perdueplayer to successfully return "I started to watch the first ketball, talking about sneaking lion smile and winked. were around for his first nine­from a drug suspension. game of the season and could­up on the rest of the NBA. Jordan spent so much time year stint with the Bulls. 
He was good enough to play n't stand it," Warren said. "It 

"That's one of my strategies," pitching products and swinging "The biggest thing for me isevery game last year. Now, was the middle of the year be­he said. "A lot of guys haven't at pitches after leaving basket­not to change this team, but tohowever, time has done what fore I could even watch a seen me play. It might take an ball that he almost forgot what try to fit in,'' he said. "Theyoffensive linemen and drug ad­game." 
adjustment period." it was like to be in an NBA were doing very well over thediction couldn't do. The Saints, especially late 
He said that after he told game. last 18 months. I just want to"It's been great, but I know president and general manager 
agent David Falk and Chicago "As much as I tried to search add to that and make them ait's time to quit," the weeping Jim Finks, and some friends Bulls owner Jerry Reinsdorf he my memory in terms of how to little more dangerous. I'm notWarren, 35, said. "I just don't stood by Warren. He still wanted to give up his baseball prepare, it was real different," trying to reconstruct the teamhave the fire I had as a young attends AA and other groups. 
experiment and return to bas­he said. "I think going through or create any new identity."
man." 
"I knew I would do what I 

Warren, a third-round draft ketball, they tried to talk him those 43 minutes gave me a Coach Phil Jackson had to tell
had to get back and stay 

into waiting until next season. frame of mind in terms of how his players not to look forpick in 1981, played in 189 back," Warren said. 
"I said, 'Well, it kind of gives to adjust to a game again. Jordan so often Sunday. 
games. He also sat out a year, Aside from the suspension, us a psychological edge this "The biggest key is to try to1990, when he was suspended Warren missed only eight year,' " Jordan said. "To come slow my process, my body, "He said, 'We're going to him

for drug use. games in his career because of back now, it kind of takes some down to adjust to a game, pace situations that he's

Last year, he had the best injury, all in 1993. He has 57 in not 
teams by surprise." it a little bit to where I'm pro­ready,' " Jordan said. "Theseason of his career, with 9 1/2 sacks -third on the Saints, The first game of his come­ductive every minute and not competitive side of me wantedsacks including three in a 30-and scored four touchdowns, back even surprised Jordan. trying to be overproductive to do it, but physically, I wasn't20 Monday night victory over including one on a blocked He hadn't played in an NBA every minute. That's tough for quite ready for that yet."
Philadelphia. And, he later ac­field goal and one following a game since June 20, 1993, me. But I think in a couple of Despite his belief that he mayknowledged, he had been a co­blocked punt. 

when he led the Bulls to their games, I'll adjust." be able to sneak up on oppo­
caine addict. "Frank never got the recogni­

third consecutive champi­Jordan missed 21 of his 28 nents, Jordan knows there's no
"I was worried about it," tion he should have had," 

onship. Nevertheless, he played shots, but he did have 19 sneaking up on the public ­coach Jim Mora said. "He had Mora said. "Ask the people 43 minutes Sunday in Chicago's points. six rebounds, six assists which had been hoping for hisa serious drug problem. That's who played against him how 103-96 overtime loss at and three steals. comeback almost since the daya career-wrecker. So many good he was or how much bet­Indiana. "They weren't the greatest he left. 
good players ... have fallen by ter we were with him in 

"I was very sore last night but highlights,'' he said, "but I was "I think the whole world hasthe wayside. Frank's beaten it. there." 
I just soaked a little while and glad to be back." an eye on me," he said. 
THE LUC OF 
THE IRISH 
Story by Brendan Patrick Paulsen Illustrations by Gwen Connelly 
Join Brendan Patrick Paulsen for a reading from his new book! 3:00p.m. March 22nd at The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
II on the campus 
II 
~ 
~ 
PUBliSHERS 
f"'-s-ct.·ll"aug!'N'>Comc>41ny 


---~~-------·---~--­

Tuesday, March 21, 1995 page 17
The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

NCAA's bad for Bearcats 
Tourna01ent loss to Northern 
Associated Press !inding some recruits who can make his team quicker and CINCINNATI more successful in the NCAA 
Illinois sends Notre Da01e to NIT 
Hegular annual exposure in the NCAA tournament could cost Cincinnati basketball coach Bob Huggins two of his top assistants, even as he nego­tiates a contract extension that could keep him at the school past 2000. 
Associate head coach Larry Harrison is reportedly one of six candidates for the head coach's job at Florida International. Assistant coaeh John Loyer is a candidate to become head coach at Akron, the school he graduated from in 1988. 
The announcements on both jobs could come this week. Both men have been with Huggins since he arrived at Cincinnati. 
The Bearcats' 96-91 loss Saturday to Connecticut in a second-round NCAA tourna­ment game completed Huggins' sixth season in Cincinnati. He has a 138-58 record and has coached the Bearcats to four NCAA tourney appearances, inducting one trip to the Final Four. 
Huggins was out of town Monday on a recruiting trip. lie said his immediate priority is tournament. 
"That's all I'm worried about, because I don't like to lose," Huggins said. "We have to get some guys who can move their feet. We're not as athletic as we used to be." 
The late signing period begins April 15. 
Other schools have tried to hire lluggins, but he has said he prefers to stay at Cincinnati. 
He signed his last contract ex­tension at Cincinnati in March 1993. Athletic director Gerald O'Dell, who arrived at Cincinnati a year ago, has been negotiating with Huggins on a contract extension since last year. 
Huggins and O'Dell did not return telephone calls Monday. 
Huggins' lawyer, Ron Grinker, said he does not antic­ipate agreement soon because more issues need to be settled in negotiations. He declined to elaborate. 
Huggins, 41, is under con­tract through the 1996-97 sea­son. According to published reports, the university and lluggins are discussing an extension of at least five years. 

SPECIAL NEEDS: 3 poor parishes have requested men; 2 have r~quested bi-lingual (Span.) persons; mature women needed to serve with homeless families. 

"The mission oftlte Church is to evangelize." 
-Pope Paul VI 

DID YOU EVER DREAM OF BEING A~~ MISSIONARY? IT'S POSSIBLE! 
7 •Catholic Evangelizing Ministries 
• Open to couples, singles and religious 
• 
Serve for a year or more among the poor/homeless in NY area 

• Ongoing training & ministry support 


• 
Community living 


2704 Schurz Avenue Throgs Neck, Dronx, NY I0465 (718) 409-5062 

Tom & Lyn Scheuring, Ph.D.s, DirectorsMINISTRIES Maryheth & Ed Greene, A.•soc. Directors 
"The Spirit ofth_e_ LorE_js upon me...to bring GOOD NEWS to the POOR..."(Lk 4: 19) 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Spores Writer 
The big dance. The NCAA tournament. 
After destroying Xavier by 29 points, the Notre Dame wom­en's basketball team only need­ed two more victories. A win over Northern Illinois would advance the Irish into the Midwestern . Collegiate Conference tournament final and into contention for the au­tomatic bid to the NCAA tour­nament. 
Only three weeks earlier the Irish had defeated the Huskies , but on March 11 the Huskies refused to roll over and die. The Huskies dashed the Irish's NCAA dreams with a 87-64 trouncing. 
While the Irish's chances for the NCAA tournament were over, their season was not. 
Their record was strong enough to earn them a bid to the NIT, something that the men's team cannot boast. 
With Northern Illinois hosting the MCC tournament this year, the Huskies had the home court advantage over the Irish. With their fans behind them the Huskies came ready to play. 
"Northern Illinois played very well," sophomore forward Beth Morgan commented. "They played a very aggressive game. They dominated the boards and forced us into some turnovers." 
"They played the best game they ever played," junior for­ward Carey Poor said. 
As for the Irish, not much can be said. They just played a bad game. They turned the ball over ten more times than the Huskies and were out-re­bounded 40-29. 
The Irish shot 50 percent from both inside and outside the three-point arc compared to just 48 and 30 for the Huskies. Yet with 16 offensive rebounds and Irish turnovers, the I-1 uskies were able to get 19 more shots off and take over the game. 
"We just had a bad game," Poor explained. "We lacked in­tensity." 
"It was frustrating," Morgan said. "We were very positive going into the tournament. We just struggled at times and were always behind." 
As for the NIT, look out. After being denied a sixth tourna­ment championship and an in­vitation to the NCAA tourna­ment the Irish will be inspired going into the NIT. 
"We took a week ofT for spring break," Poor said. "We should have the intensity back for the NIT tournament." 
• COlUGE BASKETBAll 
IU coach loses temper again 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Bob Knight's famous temper got the best of him again, and the NCAA wants a closer look. 
The Indiana coach, miffed that an NCAA media liaison er­roneously said he would not at­tend a post-game news confer­ence, lashed out at him after the Hoosiers' 65-60 first-round loss in Boise Idaho. 
An NCAA official said Sunday the Division I men's basketball committee will review the ex­pletive-laced outburst. Bernard Muir, assistant director of the NCAA's basketball champi­onship, said the committee will study videotapes of the incident and talk to the parties involved. He would not speculate on any action that might be taken against Knight. 
After the game, IU players Alan Henderson and Brian Evans appeared for the sched­uled news conference, but Knight, who had been on his best behavior, was not with them. Then shortly after the players left, someone informed Rance Pugmire, the NCAA rep­resentative at the public ad­dress microphone, that Knight would not be coming to the news conference. 
Pugmire passed that informa­tion on to the media, and Missouri coach Norm Stewart and three of his players were brought in. Knight showed up later and was angry about the announcement that he would not be at the news conference. 

"Who in the hell told you I wasn't going to be here? I'd like to know," Knight said to Pugmire. "Do you have any idea who it was? 
"They weren't from Indiana. You didn't get it from Indiana. I'll handle this the way I want 
-

to handle this," Knight contin­ued. 
Knight told Pugmire he could stay or leave -he didn't care which. 
Then, just as abruptly, Knight said, "Now, back to the game." 
Pugmire blamed the mixup on the NCAA and not Knight. "It was our fault, not his. We were told by some 'runners' he wasn't coming," Pugmire said. 
The Hoosiers returned to Bloomington on Saturday. 
God Bless you Kurt, on your Special Day! 
Congratulations from Pittsburgh, South Bend, Houston, Boston, Columbus, Philadelphia and Paris. 

We all love you. 
Graduation Student Workers Catering 
$May 15-21$ Free Room/Board $6.25 per hour 
,.,...rHabitat 1or Humanity Jimmy Carter 
II I International 
Work Projects 

Los Angeles, California 
June 17-25, 1995 ND will sponsor 1 of 30 homes to be built during this "Habitat for Humanity" week. We are looking for 6 students to join 14 alumni in this special project (transportation not included). 
Applications available in the in the Alumni Office 201 Main Building 

All Applications due April 3 
Room contract sign ups begin Mon., March 20 -Fri., March 31 1 0 a.m. -5 p.m. Sat., March 25 1 0 a.m. -4 p.m. last day to sign contract April 3 lower level SDH 631 -5449 

-----------~ 
By MICHAEL DAY Sports Wrirer 
The shot was finally fired. 
Bowling Green took grasp. of the loaded weapon and promptly put the frustrated Notre Dame hockey fans out of their Inisery by eliminating the Irish in the opening round of the CCHA playoffs on March 10-1L 
It was the ultimate disap· pointment in a mediocre 11· 25·1 season. 
The frish were whipped thoroughly 7·2 in Game One before coming up on the losing end of a 5-4 nail biter in Game Two of the best of three series. 
Game One was the mirror image of the team's play in the first half of the season. It didn't seem like Notre Dame should have been on the same ice as the Falcons. 
Outshot 94-52 and outhus· tied to nearly every loose puck. the Irish were able to save face only when forwards Terry Lorenz and Steve Noble contributed scores late in the third period of the 7-2 loss. 
"We came ready to play. but we made a lot of mistakes like we did earlier in the year," said junior captain Brett Bruininks. "And unforunately for us. they came back to haunt us." 
Following the disheartening performance in the first game, the Irish were determined to 

-
Wfirm~~ ©ll ~llll lfll~W©Ir~~ 
Daily Lunch Specials 
4 TV Screens 
IID~ml~ 

g~ye t}l~)~le~~l~ .. ~. !HH.to ~orer.cand i'.Uqbey Ba.k~J . 
their m.()1ley iri Ganie Tw ward g candidate Bria'ti" Notre Dame broke a scoreless Hob:inger. slowly turned the tie earlyln the first period tide of the cont~st, scoring when Tim Harbertf; receiyf:ld a.:? .. J}lree upanswered goals to pass Via Jamie Ling and Garry turn a 4-2 deficit into a 5·4 Gruber and slapped the puck lead. . past F~!con goa,ltender ~ob..11!.!iJ· ()v.~r ~~e final .~6 mm\lt.es.•
1
Petrie t(}; give the. Irish~ 1-0 lead. iJ%;/< .·.· iv . ;:· · •· . 
~owllntf Grl:len reeJeq ptf.· ~. pair of goals within the next four minutes, but the Irish re­fused to. roll ov~;t and play dead on this night/FWith 9:47 remaining in the opening peri­od Harberts notched his see­ond goal of the night courtesy of a Ben Nelsen assist. 
Just 50 seconds later, right wing Jamie Moreshead gave Notre Dame a 3-2 lead ()ff a pinpoint pass from Noble. ~he first period offensive exploswn continued just over a minute later. Center Lyle Andrusiak received a pass from Lorenz and subsequently slammed the puck past Petrie to give the Irish a 4-2 advantage, 
··;:~~:·:· 
With a two goal lead just over midway through the first period, the Irish seemed determined to send the series to a third and deciding game. However, a wheel fell off and Notre Dame suffered a fatal crash landing. 
The h'ish fell back into their old habits and let the Falcons crawl back into the game. Bowling Green, led by leading 

the two te~ms bat.tled b~J:ck :and forth hke a patr of pr1ze i fjghter~s Iq t~e closing s~c­onds. of the gam~, Moreshead recetved a pass from center JobnHushin and slammedthe puckpan! Petrie for an appar· ent goal. . 
·. Hoyvever. much to the dts· 
· may"o.f the Irish players and coachmg staff, the goal was ruled to have occurred after the final buzzer, ~nd the Falcons snuck away w1th a 5-4 vi~tory. . 
The vtdeo tape clearly shows tho goal was scored before time expired," sa!d head coach Ric Schafer. It was a difficult call to mak~, and it is unfo~tu?a~e that 1t ended the way lt dtd. 
Despite the controversial end to a disappointing season, the Irish are beading into the off· season optimistic about the fu­ture. 
"We gained some experience this year. and we should have some good recruits on the way," said Bruininks. "We should have the focus and the right attitude for a better sea· son next year." 
Tuesday, March 21, 1995 
•NHL 

Carey and Capitals dispose of Whalers 
By CHRISTINE HANLEY 
Associated Press 

HARTFORD, Conn. 
Dimitri Khristich had two goals and an assist and Jim Carey made 29 saves as the Washington Capitals beat the Hartford Whalers 5-0 Monday night. 
Khristich scored the first and last of the goals for Washington. which held a 4-0 lead after two periods despite being outshot 17-12 during the first 40 minutes. 
Carey, who entered the game with a league-leading 1.64 goals-against average, earned his second career shutout and improved to 8-1-1 over the last 10 games. 
Hartford failed to score against Carey despite outshoot­ing the Capitals 30-24 and get­ting five power-play chances. 
Although the Whalers outshot the Capitals in the first two pe­riods, they still found them­selves down 4-0 after goals by Khristich, Keith Jones, Peter Bondra and Kelly Miller. 
Washington only held a 1-0 lead 36 minutes into the game, but the momemtum seemed to shift after Joe Juneau caught a stick in his right eye with 4:29 left in the second period. 
After that, Washington con­verted three goals before the period ended. 
Weeki Specia 
s 
Monday Night 
~~rc wn~ 

-with Select Dollar Be 
Thursday NightFeast for Four 
$ll®®~ 

50 Wings Curly Fries &Beverage for Four 
After Bondra made it 3-0 on Washington's 11th shot at 
18:35 of the second period, Hartford goalie Sean Burke was replaced by Jeff Reese, who gave up a goal to Miller on the first shot he faced. 
Burke returned to net at the start of the third period, only to give up another goal to Khristich 5:36 later. Burke fin­ished with 19 saves on 23 shots. 
Khristich opened the scoring in a slow first period for both teams, who combined for 11 shots on goal. The Capitals, who had only five shots in the period, scored their first goal on their second power play, when Joe Juneau's pass found Khristich near the bottom of the left circle. Khristich's shot from a bad angle beat Burke between the pads at 10:32. 
Washington was outshot again in the second, 11-7, and only held a 1-0 lead for the first 36 minutes before putting the game out of reach with three goals in the last four minutes of the period. 
After Jones' goal from right in front at 16:46, Bondra got a goal similar to Khristich's, shooting the puck on its edge and beating Burke between the pads from the same angle at 18:35. 

AsK ABouT OuR WALL OF FLAME 
838 University Center 6502 Grape Road 
(between Service Merchandise & Best Buy) 
Phone 273-0088 
·-----~-----­

·-~----~-----~-­
page 19Tuesday, March 21, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 

mitted three errors and pitch­ers Garrett Carlson and Hich

Baseball 
Sauget gave up four earned continued from page 24 runs on seven hits and eight walks. son. Tim Kraus came out of 
Notre Dame rebounded to de­the bullpen to get his second 
feat UTPA 13-4 in the rubber save. match. Craig DeSensi went The win over the Cornhuskers 
2x3 with a double and two RBI. set up a championship rematch 
Topham was 2x5 with two dou­between Notre Dame and 
bles, and Mike Amrhein hit a Baylor, and again the Bears 
bases-loaded double which prevailed with a 10-4 victory. 
scored three. 

Starter Larry Mohs took his 
Freshman Marcus Smith hit second loss of the season, going 
his first collegiate home run two innings and surrendering 
with a two-run shot in the sec­three runs on four hits and 
ond. 

four walks. Heliever Craig Schmalz earned his second 
Henebry gave up another three 
win in the Lone Star State, go­earned runs on five hits in his 
ing six innings and allowing six four innings of work. 
hits and one earned run. "There was just too much for 
But the Irish couldn't break our pitchers to overcome in 
their pattern, and fell 7-3 to this game," Mainieri said. UT-San Antonio in the final "Overall it wasn't a very good 
game of the trip. eiTort and we were playing too 
Again Topham provided long­good of a ball-club for that." 
ball heroics, when his three­Next on the schedule in Texas 
run homer in the fifth brought was three games against the Irish to within one. But Texas-Pan American. Notre 
UTSA answered with one run Dame took the first game 7-6 
in each of the last three innings thanks to a two-run homer by 
to hold on for the win. Topham in the bottom of the 
Parker had another strong seventh. 
performance, but for the sec­In the next game UTPA bene­
ond time took the loss. Parker fited from Notre Dame's shaky 
went six and two-thirds in­field play and weak bullpen to 
nings, giving up five hits and triumph 5-1. The Irish com-
four earned runs. 

Reggie Lewis' death receives explanation 

"I don't think we have any­thing to be ashamed of," said Mainieri after the trip. "We have played all of our games on the road so far, and all have been against quality teams. I think we're off to a good start and we will improve from here." 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 24 
goals. The offense scored four against the tough Tiger squad, ranked 6th nationally. 
The Irish played toe-to-toe against Princeton, and had op­portunities to gain the victory. Unfortunately, when push came to shove, the Tigers found the plays and scored to ice the game. Again, the start­ing goalkeeper was Cade, who made several saves to keep the team in the game. 
Corrigan was pleased by the freshman's performance. "Alex played great, had a lot of confidence, and kept his con­centration. He also cleared the ball well, which helped the transition game." 
The Irish returned home to face Villanova on Sunday. Although the team came away with a 15-7 victory, it suffered a breakdown in the second half. 
Colley and sophomore Tim 
Kearney each scored three 
goals against the Wildcats, and 
Sutton had two scores and two 
assists. The Irish outshot 
Villanova 42-22, had more 
face-off's 15-11, and ground 
balls 41-31. 
Coach Corrigan was not 
pleased with the second half of 
the Villanova game. "We had 
too many turnovers in the sec­
ond half. We have to keep get­
ting better, and we didn't do 
that against the Wildcats." 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
A close friend and former teammate of Reggie Lewis claims he used cocaine several times with the late Celtics cap­tain, including five days before Lewis collapsed at a playoff game two years ago, The Wall Street Journal reported today. 
Derrick Lewis, who is not re­lated to Lewis, told the Journal that Lewis was "an experimen­tal user of cocaine like a lot of people, from executives to col­lege students, who try it once in a while. Reggie was addicted to basketball, not drugs." 
The two were high school friends and teammates at Northeastern University in the mid-1980s. Derrick Lewis said the two did a lot of "heavy par­tying, mostly with marijuana. There was a lot of partying on the team." 
Lewis said he was going pub­lic with his account because "I want to set the record straight." 
The Journal first reported March 9 that cocaine may have played a role in Lewis' death in 1993. It said that public rela­tions and financial concerns of the Celtics and Lewis' family about possible drug use by Lewis may have hindered his receiving proper medical treat­ment. 
Lewis collapsed on April 29, 
1993, during a game against 
the Charlotte Hornets and died 
while shooting baskets three 
months later at Brandeis 
University. His heart was 
scarred, which doctors said 
was consistent with cocaine 
use, but Lewis refused to take a 
drug test, the newspaper said. 
Donna Harris-Lewis, Heggie 
Lewis' widow, has since said 
repeatedly that her husband 
never used drugs. She also said 
he never refused a drug test. 
The Celtics threatened a law­
suit against the Journal, but 
none has been filed. 

The Celtics are slated to retire 
Lewis' number in a ceremony on Wednesday at the Boston Garden. Mayor Tom Menino has declared Wednesday "Reggie Lewis Day" in Boston, and a telethon to raise money for the Reggie Lewis Foundation is scheduled for Tuesday. 
Over the weekend, The Boston Globe reported that a Northeastern University official told the school's president last week that Lewis had tested positive for cocaine before the team played in the 1987 NCAA tournament. 
President John Curry sus­pended his special assistant, Irwin Cohen, the school's for­mer athletic director, and ap­pointed a special commission to investigate the report. 
The doctor who performed 
the test, however, said Lewis' 
test was clean. The doctor, Job 
Fuchs, said he threw away his 
records of the test last fall. 
Derrick Lewis told the Journal that he and Lewis met when they tried out for a basketball league for 12-year-olds. After high school, they went to Northeastern. 
He recalled one incident in 
the 1980s, when he and Lewis 
attended a Celtics camp for col­
lege players and free agents. 
He said he, Lewis and two 
other players went to a 
McDonald's restaurant and 
used cocaine in the bathroom. 
The Journal said it confirmed 
much of the report with one of 
the other players, who was not 
identified. 
Derrick Lewis also said that 
on April 24, 1993, he and 
Lewis met at the Marriott Hotel 
in Greenbelt, Md., where the 
Celtics were staying before a 
game with the Washington 
Bullets. Lewis said he and the 
basketball star had several 
drinks in the lounge with sev­
eral other players before going 
up to Reggie Lewis' room and 
using cocaine. 
Jeff Twiss, a Celtics 
spokesman, said he had no 
immediate comment on the re­
port. 


• 
Same day processing on all E-6 c;olor slide films in by noon 

• 
Creation of 3Smm slides using digital or traditional copy methods 

• 
Digitizing 3Smm slides or negatives for use in Mac, Windows and Unix software 

• 
Next day service on color prints with 11 Free Doubles 11 everyday 


ROOM 13 ccE 
631-7636 
8:00-5:00 
Monday -Friday 
page 20 
•MBA 
Spurs shoot down Sanies, Mavericks beat Cavs in OT 

~~--------­
-~ ~ ----~-------­
The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 21, 1995 
Notre Dame heads West 
By NEIL ZENDER  loss. Long Beach State had  four run first inning.  
Sports Writer  nine hits to Notre Dame's five.  The Irish concluded the  
The Irish only managed one  Hawaii tourney by falling to  
All was not quiet on the  extra base hit.  Hawaii 6-3. Notre Dame  
Western Front. While other  "It was probably our flattest  trailed 3-0, but rallied for  
Domers were frolicking in  game of the tournament. We  three runs in the top of sev­ 
Florida, the Notre Dame soft­ just got outplayed. Their mo­ enth.  
ball team was busy fighting  mentum was really ignited be­ However, Laynie Sueyasu 
for Our Lady in a determined  cause of factors outside our  homered with two runners on  
western assault. The tour  control."  in the bottom of the seventh to  
included two victories over  The plate umpire called a  give the Rainbow Wahine the  
San Diego State, splitting a  tight strike zone, and illegal  6-3 win.  
doubleheader with Cal State  pitches on Terri Kobata.  In California, the Irish played  
Fullerton, and a third place  Consequently, the ball move­ well against a couple of tough  
finish in the University of  ment that makes Kobata one  teams. Notre Dame split a  
Hawaii's 1995 Honeycuts  of America's best hurlers was  March 13 doubleheader  
Softball Invitational.  nullified. She was hammered  against the national power Cal  
"Overall, I thought we played  for four runs in one and a  State Fullerton. The Irish won  
excellent ball," Coach Liz  third innings of work.  the first game 1-0 behind  
Miller said. "We played good  Terri Kobata's two-hit  
competition, and we played to  However, that was not a  shutout.  
that competition every game."  clear representation of  The lone run came when  
Notre Dame's third place  Kobata's performance. She  Meghan Murray's pop fly 
Hawaii finish would have been  earned All-Tournament hon­ dropped into the front of  
better, if not for a costly loss  ors along with catcher Sara  Fullerton's centerfield and  
to Long Beach State. The two  Hayes. Kobata also set a tour­ Elizabeth Perkins legged home  
teams first met round-robin,  nament record with 15 strike­ the only run of the contest.  
in a set-up that seeded the  outs in Notre Dame's 3-0 win  The Titans won the second  
tournament for bracket play.  over DePaul.  contest 2-0. Once again, the  
In round robin play, the Irish  Irish bats struggled to make  
The Irish won the game 6-5,  lost to Hawaii 2-1, beat  their presence known. The  
behind seven hits. Although  DePaul 3-0, beat Long Beach  Irish mustered only one hit, as  
Long Beach had three homers,  State 6-5, and topped Loyola  the Titans' Brandi Isgar fired  
Notre Dame catcher Sara  Marymount 5-1. Their perfor­ the shutout.  
Hayes' two taters, whieh set a  mance earned them the num­ 
tournament game record,  ber two seed going into brack­ The Irish opened their west  
drowned them out.  et play on Saturday.  coast trip by winning both  
"We hit big time," Miller  ends of a doubleheader  
said. "We had runners on  There, they suffered the  against San Diego State.  
when we had our home runs.  costly loss 5-0 loss to Long  Kobata fired a shutout in a 3-0  
They didn't."  Beach State. However, the  win in the first end, and Joy  
But in the bracket play re­ Irish recovered to beat Loyola  Battersby pitched six solid  
match, the Irish bats were  Marymount again, 5-1. They  innings in the bottom end. a 3­ 
conspicuously silent in a 5-0  rapped out 11 hits, including a  1 win.  

' 
I 
i 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO 
David Robinson scored 24 points and Chuck Person had 14 points and a season-high 11 rebounds as the San Antonio Spurs, playing without injured Dennis Rodman, beat the Seattle SuperSonics 104-96 Monday night. 
The Spurs won their fourth straight game. Rodman, the NBA's leading rebounder, was placed on the injured list earli­er in the day with a separated right shoulder following a mo­torcycle accident Sunday. He is expected to miss up to four weeks. 
Seattle, which had won five in a row, was led by Shawn Kemp's 23 points and Sam Perkins' 21. 
San Antonio, which never trailed, pulled away from a 58­58 tie early in the third quarter behind 8 points by Robinson for an 84-74 lead after three quarters. 
Seattle got no closer than 5 points in the fourth period as Avery Johnson and Doc Rivers each scored 5 points for the Spurs. 
The Spurs tied a team record by making six 3-point shots in the first half in taking a 52-47 lead. San Antonio had five 3­pointers in the fierst quarter. The Spurs made 8 of 22 3­pointers, with Vinny Del Negro hitting three. 
Mavericks 1 02, Cavs 1 00 
Jamal Mashburn atoned for miserable shooting with 11 points in the second overtime, including the winning layup with 2.4 seconds left, to lead the Dallas Mavericks past the Cleveland Cavaliers 102-100 Monday night. 
Mashburn scored 16 of his 28 points in the two extra periods, including the Mavericks' last seven points of the game. He was 10-for-26 from the floor for the game. 
Cleveland had one last chance to tie, but Tyrone Hill's hurried short hook missed everything at the buzzer. 
Hill scored a career-high 29 points and Terrell Brandon had 27 for Cleveland, which has lost nine of 12. Jason Kidd scored 20 for Dallas, which has won four of its last five games. 
The Cavs led by 15 in the third quarter, but Kidd led a comeback in which Dallas reeled off the first nine points of the fourth quarter to make a game of it. He started the flurry with a three-point play, then assisted on three straight bas­kets before Cleveland scored its first points of the period. 
Dallas tied it 83-83 on Roy Tarpley's two foul shots with 26 seconds left in regulation, and Brandon's 20-footer bounced off the rim at the horn. 


r----------------------------------, 
HOW TO GET STUFF CHEAPER. <( i.. 
.,.0 

(WITHOUT POSING AS A SENIOR CITIZEN.) 8 
.t: 
:; 
0 
.,. 
c

Check expiration dates . . ~ 
.0 
"' 
0 ~ 

If it's going bad tomorrow, it's 
"' 
"'~

probably on sale today. 
@ 


Look for product flaws. 
A scratch or a missing button means bargain savings at the register. 

Go generic. 
Same as name brands, without the cartoon mascots. 

Buy in bulk with friends. 
Connect the leftover boxes to make a human Habitrail.® 

Use a Citibank Classic card. 
If you find out you didn't pay the lowest price, Citibank Price Protection can pay you back up to $150.* 
*Naturally. conditions and exclusions apply. Learn all about it when you become a cardmember. 

Tuesday, March 21, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish divide road trip at 2-2 

By B.J. HOOD Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis learn had a "March Madness" of ils own over Spring Break, eompeting in four matches, and winning two. 
The first match took place on Tuesday, March 14 against Miami (Ohio) in Miami. Florida, where the Irish won a close match 4-3. 
Mike Sprouse defeated Andrew Stern at number two singles 6-3, 6-3; John J. O'Brien beat Eric Seltenrich 6-1, 6-3 at number four; and Jakub Pietrowski topped Jon Klampe at number live singles 6-4, 6-1. 
Hyan Simme was defeated by Chris Hitchie at number one singles 3-6, 7-5, 6-3; Jason Pun fell to Dave Abelson 6-4, 3­6, 6-2 at numbnr three; and Steve Flanigan lost to Greg Cookson at number six 6-3. 6-1. The Irish won the decisive doubles point. Sprouse and Pun beat Hitchie and Abelson at number one doubles 8-3; Flanigan and Pietrowski de­
~ ~­

UPCOMING EVENTS 
THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1995 
BENJAMIN BARBER 
RUTGERS UNIVERSITY 
EDUCATION FOR DEMOCRACY: CITIZENSHIP, COMMUNITY AND SERVICE 
7P.M. 
AUDITORlUM 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
8011jomin Barber is Walt Whihoon Professor ol PofiHcol S<ience and Direclol of the 
Walt Whitman Confer f01 the Culture ond PoliHcs of 1lemocrocy ot Rutgers Unive!Sily. 
Aleoding scholar ol diiiTlOCiocy ond tiHzenship and aprapon0111 of service learning, 
Or. Barber is the author of IBn books, including Strong Democrocy. Tlr8 Strugg/8 for 
lltmocrocy. Tht ConqufiSI d Po•lia, and An Aristrxrocy of fwryons. He ~ active in 
anumbet of schalorty and cMc: 01ganizations ond lrequ0111ty canhibutes to a blood 
ronge ol scholarly and papular periodicals. Or. Barber recoivod aPh.D. in political 
science from HarvOfd UnivOISity. 
Future Speakers in this Series will be: Vanessa Walker, March 30th, 4:15 p.m., Room 124, C.S.C. Barbara Schneider, April 6th, 4:15p.m., Room 124r C.S.C. Anthony Byrk, April 10th, 4:15 p.m., Room 124, C.S.C. 
feated Seltenrich and Stern 8-4; and Simme and O'Brien beat Klampe and Cookson at num­ber three 8-2. 
The Irish shut out UNLV on Thursday in the first of three matches in Montgomery Alabama for the Blue Gray Classic. 
In the singles matches, Simme defeated Hoger Petterson, Sprouse bested Tim Bledkiron, Pun beat Luke Smith, O'Brien outlasted Jules Pohjola, Pietrowski topped Rob Norton, and Flanigan came back to defeat Thomas Schrader. 
Sprouse and Pun were de­feated 8-4 at number one dou­bles by Smith and Schrader. The tandems of Flanigan and Pietrowski. and Simme and O'Brien were victorious over Blenkiron and Norton, and Petterson and Pohjola. 
On the following day, the University of Alabama Birmingham edged Notre Dame 
4-3. 
Simme and Pun were victori­ous at number one and three singles over Gero Albiez and Erik Bengts, respectively. Sprouse, O'Brien, Pietrowski, and Flanigan were defeated by Paul Rosner, Vaughan Snyman, Jenus Tonn, and Marco Povdas, respectively. 

The Irish did win the doubles point. Flanigan and Pietrowski beat Tonn and Lenza at num­ber two, and Simme and O'Brien defeated Albiez and Bengts at number three. At number one doubles, Snyman and Rosner defeated Sprouse and Pun. 
Notre Dame finished the marathon of matches on Saturday, with a 4-0 loss to Florida. 
The doubles matches were not played and number two and five singles were suspended, resulting in the low score. 
Damon Henkel defeated Simme at number one 6-3, 6-1; Wayne Boich beat Pun 6-2, 7-5; Randy Baldemore beat O'Brien 6-0, 6-4 at number four; and 
Brook Blain won over Flanigan at number six 6-4, 6-4. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Accent Writers Accent Music Critics Accent Literary Critics Accent Copy Editors Assistant Accent Editors 
Please submit a one page statement ofintent to Krista in 314 LaFortune by 2 p. m.March 24 th. Call 631-4540 for more information. 
The Alumni-Senior Club is hiring 
BARTENDERS 
for the 95-96 season. 
Pick up applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. Must be 21+by September, 1995. 
The Observer/ Eric Ruethling Number one singles player Ryan Simme compiled a 5-2 record against Miami (Ohio), UNLV, Alabama-Birmingham, and Florida. 
• BOXING 
Tyson now religious 
Associated Press 
PlAINFIELD, Ind. 

Mike Tyson plans to visit an Islamic mosque here immedi­ately after he is released from prison Saturday morning, a spiritual advisor to the boxer says. 
"Don't expect him to step out and be an angel," Muhammad Siddeeq said Monday. "But know that his intent, his con­cern, his effort is moving in a very positive and progressive manner." 
Siddeeq said Tyson's en­tourage -expected to include promoter Don King and man­agers Rory Holloway and John Horne -will travel to a mosque in Plainfield Saturday when the former heavyweight champion of the world is re­leased from the Indiana Youth Center. 
-
Students $Earn some extra cash$ 
$2o.oo 
Bring Student I.D. 
To: American Biomedical CTR 515 Lincolnway West-South Bend 
Help save a Life 
Hours: M-F: 9-6 Sat: 8-5 

234-6010 
Bring this Coupon 


18 yrs. old, bring I.D. with Proof of current address. 
r-------------------------~-------------------------------------------.~~----~----~~------------------~----------~---. 
r page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 21, 1995 
f 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE· 
There will be a mandatory 

t Irish doubles prove unstoppable 
By TIM SHERMAN with their three-win break. Assistant Sports Editor "It's so much fun playing with Erin," Gavin noted. "I reallyFacing off against top-thirty 
look forward to doubles. We teams has been a usual oc­
just annoy the other team be­curence all season long for the 
cause we're so unortodox and 15th ranked Notre Dame wom­
get to everything, so we win." en's tennis team. Recently, 
Their win over Clemson, along beating them is becoming com­
with the point earned by
monplace as well. 
Crabtree/Lord ,proved to be the The Irish knocked off two 
difference against the Tigers, more ranked teams over break, 
as the Irish emerged with a 5-4 defeating the 27th ranked 
victory after entering the dou­Clemson Tigers and the bles tied at three. This win,
nation's 11th best squad, the 
along with the Pepperdine up­Waves of Pepperdine. These 
set, is exactly why the team is two wins brought the record of 
going to earn an NCAA berth. coach Jay Louderback's club to "These were key matches 8-6 before a Sunday loss to because they should greatlyArizona State. 
help our NCAA tournament Still, the Irish are plenty satis­
chances," said Gavin. fied with their efforts, espe­
Even though there is a fair cially the Pepperdine win. 
amount of tennis to be played,"We played pretty well, and 
it is not too early to be thinking Pepperdine was a really good 
about post-season chances. win" freshman Molly Gavin 
"The top team in each regionsaid. "It was our first outdoor 
receives an automatic bid," match of the season, and to Crabtree explained. "Right come out and get a win is al­
now, I'm not sure where we are ways nice." 
exactly but I know we're in the The Irish spent Sunday top three in the Midwest." through Thursday in California 
Even if the Irish do not earn in preparation for their outdoor 
the automatic bid, they have a opener. It paid off. 
great chance at one of the 16 Notre Dame swept the dou­
at-large berths. bles competition en route to a 
"We've beaten so many good7-2 thrashing of the Waves, 
teams," noted Crabtree. "Our with Wendy Crabtree and record may not be that good,Holyn Lord's 6-4, 7-5 win high­
but the committee will look at lighting the action. 

~m>un.11~  ftmrriil~~R  
What  GENDER RELATIONS RETREAT  
Who:  Notre Dame Men and Women  

the competetion we faced and Gavin and sophomore Erin 
who we beat. I'm confident Gowen continue their stellar 
right now." play as well against P.U., win­
Should the Irish continue to ning in easy straight-set fash­
make picking off top twentyion, 6-2, 6-4. The underclass 
teams a regular feat, that con­duo raised their record to 8-4 
fidence will turn to reality. 
ATTENTION 
HOSPITALITY PROGRAM MEMBERS 
We will have two meetings this week to prepare for April Visitation. They will be on Wednesday, March 22 and Thursday, March 23. 


practice at Loftus on Wednesday, March 22nd. Be there at 9:45. Tournament this Saturday at MSU. CHALLENGE-D-AEROBICS­All classes will be half price for the remainder of the year. Spots are still avail­able. 
YOGA-Class #3 will begin Wednesday at 6:15 in Loftus Room 114. WEIGHT LOSS WORKSHOP­The Challenge-D-Fitness and DYP Programs will be presenting a workshop on the psychology of weight loss at 12:00 Wednesday March 22nd in the ND room in LaFortune. All are welcome to attend. 
DROP-IN-VOLLEYBALL· RecSports is offering drop­in-volleyball on Tuesdays March 21, and April 11, 18, and 25. Come by yourself or bring a friend. The sessions are from 8-11 pm in the Joyce Center. No teams or advanced sign-ups are nec­essary. 

When: Saturday March 25, 1995 (10:30am-3:30pm) Where: Center for Social Concerns 
Goal: To improve communication between males and females at Nolie Dame through open and informative discussion. 
TO REGISTER: Sign up at the Women's Resource Center, in person, or by phone at 631-9028 or call Merrie at 634-1413. The Women's Resource Center is located on the 2nd floor of LaFortune, Student Government Office. 
Sponsored by: The Women's Resource Center Student Government 
Amnesty International 
Can We Talk? 


MARCH 29 BOWLING GREEN 4:00p.m. 30 CINCINNATI 4:00p.m. 
APRIL BUTLER (2) 12:00 p.m. 2 BUTLER (2) 12:00 p.m. 4 INDIANA STATE 4:00p.m. 5 CHICAGO STATE 7:00p.m. 7 WISC.-MILWAUKEE 5:00p.m. 8 WISC.-MILWAUKEE (2) 12:00 p.m. 9 WISC.-MILWAUKEE 12:00 p.m. 11 ILLINOIS 5:00p.m. 15 DETROIT (2) 12:00 p.m. 18 DUQUESNE (2) 5:00p.m. 19 PURDUE 7:00p.m. 

SUBWAY's Giant Party Subs &Platters are the fresh, delicious change of taste from 20 VALPARAISO 7:00p.m. 
22 ILLINOIS-CHICAGO (2) 12:00 p.m.
pizza, chicken and burgers. We pile lots of fresh-sliced deli meats onto fresh bread 
23 ILLINOIS-CHICAGO (2) 12:00 p.m.
baked right in our store. Next we add cheese, plus your choice of fresh toppings and 25 ALABAMA 7:00p.m. 
26 ALABAMA 5:00p.m.
tasty condiments. The result is ahearty 27 
EASTERN ILLINOIS 5:00p.m.

sandwich that will satisfy any hungry team. MAY 
5 NORTHEASTERN ILLINOIS 7:00p.m.
--..-----------­
.. ------~-----~ -• ------3 -· -·---­


--~-----~
---~ ----­

Tuesday, March 21, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
YOVI~.. 1-\0\lSE 15 OIJt.R n\ER£. Wfl-NT ME ltl I)RA\'l ~0\l A MAl' OV \-\OW TO GET T\-\t.l<£? 
0\N\OO'Sl'{ I'l-1 
NOT GOING TO M'( 1-\0\JS£. 

~ 
DILBERT 

CAT&.RJ THE. HR DIRECTOR 
~ r------------------~j 
.;
0 
c
001-\ 1. NICE. TP-Y1 
@" 

HERE'S THE NEW LlRG 
SO CL05E. TOO CHART. MAY~£. YOU'RE a 
"',. 
" 
BAD 
...

ON IT AND MAYBE NOT " ... 
~k:::;:::::!~=,l 


H@@ps SHOOT OUT 
TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 7:00 PM Joyce Center Arena 
ONE-ON-ONE CONTEST 
• 
Games to 15 Points 

• 
Single Elimination 


TUESDAYS 
THREE POINT & FREE THROW CONTEST 
• 
Head to Head Competition 

• 
45 Second Shooting Period 


• Double Elimination 
Register in Advance at RecSports Deadline: Monday, March 27 No Charge 
'-.... -· 

M~ t-1\0tl\ AND '(o\JR 1\-ji>,T '(0\J'R'C. NOT C0\'1\1\\\<:, \<\0\<1.' 'ic:N n\\1'\\( I MMJE TI-\\S \JI'" 
ITS A LOT MQ~£ OBIJ\0\JS 
"1\J MY 1-\0-::\J_::S£:._·:.__'_r==:=::::....l 

'ICYV \1-\II'{K I WIINT 1C> gt_ 1-\ERI:. ?,.J 
49 Colorado Indian 50 Be in the red 51 Bullet type 53 "A Year in 
Provence" 
author Peter 55 "Forget it!" 58 Shower time 59 In high spirits 60 Cicero's was 
Tullius · 61 Oozes 62 Make a 
palindromic living? 63 Upright 
DOWN 
1 Two Byzantine emperors 2Some Mideasterners 3 Gets the soap out 4--Joe, of 
"Tom Sawyer" 5 Refrigerate & Census info 7 Room type a Bordeaux, e.g. 9 Nigeria's former 
capital 10 Jeff Lynne rock band 11 "The Godfather" actor 
12 "A Chorus Line" song "What I Did-" 
13 Cork in a bottle 18 Zebra feature 22 Summer on the 
Seine 26 Bigwig 
27 Having a market, as goods 
30 Speedy 
31 Part of a royal flush 32 Batty 33 Splinter group 34 Bronte heroine 35 Void's partner 36 Bedtime for 
Alonzo 
37 Psychological injuries 

March 21 & April 11, 18 & 25 Joyce Center 8:00-11:00 PM 
Come by Yourself or Bring Your Friends! @No Advance Sign-Ups Necessary 
,.-.......•••• -~ • £31-6100 ..~
.......<. '"'"' .,.._.-.; ... _ • .H -... ~ ~ ~ ... 
IT'S FUN TO PLAY WITH THE./"'\ BEFORE. DOWN5IZING THE./"'\. 
) 


38 Bureaucracy 48 Word before 41 Theatrical finale league or domo 42 Settle a score 52 Sandberg of 43 Still ahead baseball 44 "Hold on" 54 Back talk 45 Company with a 56 Maryland's 
subsidiary state tree 47 Christmas 57 Three-way songs circuit 
Get answers to any three clues by touch·tone phone: 1-900·420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
BILL WAITERSON 

\<lt.U_, ITS !'II'{ ti\0\1\5 R\JlE \1-\t>-T '(C)\J Cl\l-l. SIT IN 0\JR 
YAR'V, \3\JT '(0\J CAl-l.T 
COM\:. Il-l. \1\'t::. 1-\0IJ'SE. 
~0\lR l-\01'11 DID~\ 

-~,
_ ..21 
SCOIT ADAMS 

CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 



"We're not sure what this thing is, but we took It out and your car seems to be running a lot smoother." 
• OF INTEREST 
"From Relative Deprivation to Early Warning: The Work of Ted Robert Gurr" will be the subject of a lecture by Ron Pagnucco today at 4:15 p.m. in C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Pi Sigma Alpha Government Honor Society will have a meeting tonight, Tues., March 21 at 7:30p.m. in 184 Nieuwland. Representatives from the Bryce Harlow Foundation will be speaking on "the business-gov­ernment relationship." 
"The Empowering Spirit of Archbishop Romero: 
A Personal Testimony" will be the subject of a lecture by Ruben Zamora of the Democratic Convergence Movement in El Salvador to be held today at 8:00 p.m. in the Hcsburgh Center Auditorium. 
Marlst Volunteer Program representative Frank Kelly will be on campus on Wed., March 22. Call the CSC for an appointment or come to a general information ses­sion at 4:30p.m. at the Center. 
•MENU  
Notre Dame  
North  South  
Chicken Acapulco  Chicken in the Pot  
Chicken Nuggets  Mexican Rice  
Black Forest Cake  Sugar Cookies  
Saint Mary's  
Turkey Cutlets  
Vegetarian Crepes  
Chopped Steamed Cabbage  

Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
WEEKEND RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT Friday & Saturday March 31 & April 1 Joyce Center Courts 
Men's & Women's Divisions T-Shirts to ~II Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at RecSports Deadline: Thursday, March 30 $6.00Fee 
.. 

-
.. 
) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Kind of acid 6 de Triomphe 9 Doesn't read carefully 14 Another kind of acid 15 Mousse 
alternative 16 Apportion 11 Santa Clara Co. 
address 19 Lose one's 
amateur status 20 Affront 21 
Speedwagon 23 Finsteraarhorn is one 24 Property restriction 
25 Bowling alley buttons 28 Bobby, here 29 Draft org. 30 Obsess 31 Flimflam 32 Carnation spot 33 Less 32-Down 34 Oakland slugger, 1988 
A.L. MVP 37 Political 
pamphlet 39 Skylark maker 40 City near Sparks 41 Tutu event 43 Summit 46 Summer drink 47 "Rabbit, Run" 
and "Rabbit Redux," e.g. 48 "--Lisa" 


SPORTS 
page 24 •LACROSSE 

Irish have productive break 
By DAVE TREACY Sports Writer 
The key to a successful season for the lacrosse program must stem from strong team defense. 
After a 2-1 showing over Spring Break, Coach Kevin Corrigan and the squad has this knowledge well in hand. 
Notre Dame traveled to play against the University of Maryland-Baltimore County on March 12. The Retrievers proved to be no match for the Irish, falling victim to an 11-2 decision. The defensive long­sticks, inducting starter Chris Bury, tri­captains Billy Gallagher and Mike Iorio, and freshman Todd Rassas, manhandled the weaker UMBC offense, leading the Notre Dame squad to its first victory of the 1995 season. The two goals that UMBC scored tied their school record for fewest points scored in a game. 
The Irish were led offensively by senior tri-captain Randy Colley. Colley put it in the net three times, and dished off for two assists. Junior attackman Brian Gilfillan also had three goals in the con­test, and senior Will Sutton racked up two assists. The Irish, ranked 17th nationally, never trailed in the match. 

Freshman Alex Cade started his second straight game, and collected nine saves on the day. 
Coach Corrigan was pleased with the defensive efforts put forth in the UMBC game. "We played very well, especially on defense. Our longsticks and defensive middies played aggressively, and we lim­ited their scoring opportunities by play­ing a focused, ball-control offense." 
Next in line for the Irish were the Tigers from Princeto'n. Again, the defense did their job, holding the NCAA Tournament defending champs to six 
see LACROSSE/ page 19 

• BASEBAll 

Notre Dame goes 4-4 in Texas, will face ISU 
Shaky play produces an even record against Baylor and company 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
Take a couple of stellar pitching perfor­mances, add 14 errors, a few big hits and some shaky pitching and you have the Notre Dame baseball team's spring break trip to Texas. 
The Fighting Irish went four and four in San Antonio, finishing second in the Irish Invitational to Baylor and splitting games with Texas-Pan American and San Antonio. 
"Well, we could have won a few more games but we could have lost a few more, too," said Irish head coach Paul Mainieri. "That's just the way baseball works. 
"Overall; I'm very pleased with the way we performed." 

-
Sophomore Darin Schmalz opened the Irish Invitational with a complete game victory over George Washington, shutting out the Colonials 3-0. Schmalz gave up 
just four hits and struck out five. Classmate J.J. Brock provided the offen­sive fire-power for the Irish, going 3x4 with two HBI. 
The very next night it was Brock's turn to be the goat, as his two-out error with the bases loaded' allowed the winning run to score in a 2-1 loss to Baylor. 
"Brock had a rough time on defense," Mainieri said of his shortstop, who had six errors over the week. "But college short­stops make errors, and he has made some clutch plays for us as well. I told him not to worry about the plays he didn't make because it's a long season." 
Rowan Richards led off the bottom of the ninth with a triple, but found himself

.. 
stranded by the bottom of the order. 
The miscues negated a strong outing by freshman Christian Parker. Parker went eight innings, giving up seven hits and one earned run. 


Notre Dame regrouped the next night to beat Nebraska 5-3. Ryan Topham hit a bases loaded triple in the bottom of the fifth to tie the score at three, 
and Richards followed with a sacrifice fly to score Topham. Senior Craig Allen went seven innings to earn his first win of the sea-
see BASEBALL/ page 19 
By MEGAN McGRATH SportS Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team looks to rebound from a spring-break ending loss to Texas-San Antonio as they travel to Terre Haute today to take on Indiana State. 
The Irish hope to use the game to regroup before a weekend trip to Miami, where the third-ranked Hurricanes await. 
"We're expecting this to be a tough game," Irish coach Paul Mainieri says. "They're an excellent baseball team, we'll be in a hostile environment and this is the biggest game of the year for them. But we'll be up to the challenge." 
Unfortunately, the Irish will have to challenge the Sycamores without leading hitter Rowan Richards. The junior cen­terfielder suffered two separate injuries while competing in Texas and is out for today and questionable for the weekend. 
Richards was hit by a pitch in Notre Dame's first game against Texas-Pan American. That aggravated a previous in­jury to the same wrist. Richards stayed in the game, however, and suffered a sepa­rated shoulder later that inning while slid­ing into third. 
"Ro not being in the line-up is a huge void," says Mainieri. "He and Hyan (Topham) have been our RBI guys. We'll be under a lot of pressure to string hits together without Rowan to drive in runs." 
The bulk of that pressure will likely fall to Topham. The junior rightfielder leads Notre Dame with four home runs and 21 RBI. 
The Sycamores are 8-4, but have strug­gled of late, dropping three in a row to Creighton this weekend. The ISU attack is led by senior third baseman Jeff Leaman. Leaman leads the Sycamores in almost all offensive categories. batting .545 with4' four homers and 13 RBI. 
"I have no doubt that we'll go down to ISU and compete hard," says Mainieri. "It's a chance to have a good win heading into this weekend." 
-
Tuesday, March 21 Wednesday, March 22 Thursday, March 23 

ND Baseball ar Indiana Srare 

SMC Tennis ar DePauw ND Softball vs. Ohio Srare, 3 pm SMC Softball vs. Whearon, 3 pm 
Booksrore Baskerball Sign-ups ND Women's Basketball Booksrore Baskerball Sign-ups 
WNIT Tournament vs. Pacific Booksrore Baskerball Sign-ups 

Friday, March 24 
ND Baseball ar Miami WNIT Second Round 






