
Wednesday, February 8, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 82 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT ' 
By PEGGY LECZEWSKI 
I
nternational students Emanuela and Prediganda Assenga are familiar faces on the Saint Mary's campus. Since their arrival in 1991 and 1993 respectively, the two have proven that the Saint Mary's community extends far beyond campus res­idence halls. 
The sisters came to Saint Mary's because they were able to earn full scholarships in their small African village of Kilema, according to Emanuela. 
They were born the seventh and eighth children in a family of fourteen in Kilema, a Tanzanian village of 1000 people . 
"Our father is a retired math teacher who always placed a very high priority on education," Emanuela said. 
"Our mother raised us to be very curious and ambitions women," Prediganda added. 
The emphasis placed on education is appartmt with them; both Emanuela and Prndiganda were selected out of approxi­matnly 45 students to further their educa­tion at Weruweru Jligh School, a boarding school outside of their village. 
"Both Prediganda and I were very active in our school. and we each held a student government position of Administrator of Education," said Emanuela. 
It was through their school involvement that they came into contact with Maria Kamm, the head mistress of the school and a 1963 graduate of Saint Mary's. 
Prediganda and Emanuela both wanted to study in America -and Saint Mary's was their ticket. 
"America is seen as the doorway to everything," said Emanuela who graduated first in her class. She then applied for and received a Saint Mary's International Scholarship covering room, board, and tuition. 
Prediganda also graduated first in her class and spent a year working for the Mama Clementina Foundation, a non-profit organization which provides job-training for less fortunate Tanzanians unable to continue their edu­cation past elementary school. The foundation, based in Germany, provided Prediganda with her scholarship to 

The Assengas faced several challenges when they began to study in America, most notably the language. 
"When we first arrived in America, Emanuela and I felt that everyone was speaking too fast for us to keep up," Prediganda said. 
"We also had some difficulty adjusting to the food because it is so different from the Tanzanian diet," Emanuela stated. 
Despite the expected difficulties in adjusting to a new culture, Emanuela and Prediganda have each found value in their experiences. 
"I learned that it is important to respect and compare other cultures. No culture is bad, and it is important to appreciate their differences," Prediganda said. 
see STUDENTS/page 6 
Black History Month celebrated 
By CHRIS CORRENTE News Writer 
The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs has planned a series of cultural events to help celebrate February as National African­American History Month. 
The Pan-African Cultural Center is sponsor­ing an activities day at Clay High School on February 11 from 2 to 10 pm. The day will consist of workshops on African drumming and dancing, panel discussions on various 
• see RELATED LECTURE/page 5 
community topics, and will include dinner. All interested should contact Christophe Kougniazonde or Eionda Hamilton. 
Washington Hall will host the Black Cultural Arts Festival Comedy Fest on February 12 at 8 pm, featuring comics Michael Brooks, Owen Smith and Sean Sarvis. Tickets can now be purchased at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
A "Blak Koffeehouse" will be held in the LaFortune Ballroom at 7:30 pm on February 17 to promote student talent. An open roundtable, sponsored by the African American Student Alliance, to address stu­dent concerns is scheduled for 27 pm on February 23. 
To culminate African-American History Month, the 19th Annual Fashion Show will be held on March 4, cosponsored by the NAACP, Black Alumni of Notre Dame and the African­American Student Alliance. While the event will celebrate black history, the show will feature models of all ethnicities in an "effort for calibration and promotion of unity," according to Iris Outlaw, director of the 
see HISTORY I page 4 

Study reveals lack of understanding 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
News Writer 
A study done by Susan Alexander and Megan Hyan re­veals an absence of the under­standing of feminism at Saint Mary's. 
Alexander, a professor in the Departmnnt of Sociology, and Hyan, a senior in the Department of Modern Languagns presented the re­sults of their study on feminism at Saint Mary's yesterday. Alexander first became inter­ested in the issue of feminism when she started working at Saint Mary's three years ago. This interest derived from Alexander's realization that al­though the faculty at Saint Mary's was predominately fem­inist, its students' views were extremely diiTerent. 
Alexander teamed up with Hyan last February to examine the causes of the absence of feminism at Saint Mary's. They randomly selected 36 freshman and seniors for their study. 
"We wanted freshmen and seniors because we figured that their views would be the most contrasting," said Alexander. 
The information Alexander and Hyan received from their interviows with the women proved to be severely different from Alexander's definition of feminism. 
"Feminism is a theory that suggests women are systemati­cally disadvantaged in modern society and advocates equal op­portunities for women and men. The studies Megan and I conducted, however, reveal that the women at Saint Mary's see feminism as an unnatural, radical state of mind," said Alexander. 
Alexander and Ryan classi­fied their results into two cate­gories: women's views towards feminists, and women's self­identities as feminists. 
Of the women interviewed, those who see feminists as neg­ative forces focus on the stereo­typical aspects of feminism. They see feminists as women who possess masculine quali­ties, such as having short hair, wearing no makeup, and pos­sessing significant strength. 
Alexander and Hyan also found that several students possess a confusion between the way an individual and soci­ety picture feminism. The indi­vidual would define a feminist as someone who is proud of her gender, while at the same time accept society's insistance that feminists are bra-burning, rad­ical types who are desperately trying to punish males. 
The discovery that was most astonishing to Alexander and Hyan, however, was the realization that a significant population of Saint Mary's stu­
see FEMINISM I page 4 

A True message: love empowers 
By AMY SCHMIDT 
News Writer 
"Alleluia-I love you!" 
Have you heard anyone say those four words today? Probably so, if you have come into contact with Herb True, a professor in the College of Business who urged people to use humor to explore love. 
True said that because most people consider themselves "pseudo-experts" in love, it has acquired a tenuous reputation. 
"Nobody can tell you how much of you is love," he said. 
Disputing Rush Limbaugh's interpretation of love as "an emotion over which humans have little or no control, " True described four specific states of love upon which humans can choose to act. 
The first of these states of love is "storge." True described storge as the kind of love for people that are not chosen per se, such as family members and classmates. 
"Philias", or brotherly love, calls people to friendship. He linked friendship to prayer be­cause both enable people to share. 
The third type of love is "eros", or romantic love, which comes with little or no warning. True said that "eros" is "caught and not taught," and should not be confused with attraction or infatuation. 
The final type of love is "agape," which True noted as most important and powerful. 

He said that this type of love completes us and matures us. 
"Agape is concern for others equal in intensity to concern for ourselves," True said. "You can love others only as much as you can love yourself." 
edging God out. 
True concluded by telling the audience to use love to em­power themselves and others. 
"No matter what the ques­tion," True said, "love is the answer." 
He said that "agape" is un­conditional, and relies upon the supernatural and the spiritual. It is present everyewhere, and should be seen as a gift from God. 
He also described a barrier to any of these types of love known as an "ego barrier," 
See all the Student Body Presidential candidates' platforms in Election '95 section, p. 10-12. 
Vote today in all dorms. 

r 
I r 
page 2 
• INSIDE COJ..UMN 



Avoiding the question? 
There has recently 
AndyCabiness
been much media atten­Sportstion, both nationally and Copy Editor
at Notre Dame, focused on the issue of abortion. Strangely, though, none of that attention has been focused on the questions of whether or not abortion is a wrongful act or whether or not abortion should be legal. Rather, all the attention has focused on the violence upon abortion facilities and their employees, and what if any pro-life groups are supportive of it or behind it. 
The reason for this is that the pro-abortion movement has become·desperate. As the practice of medicine improves, the evidence increasingly shows that a pre-born child is indeed a human life and, thus, an abortion is the intentional killing of a human life. Given this evidence, pro-abortion people came up with the words like "choice" to attract atten­tion away from the medical facts. 
They were very successful for a while, fool­ing many with their fancy terminology and arguments. But then the pro-life movement became more organized and active on the national level and helped focus people's atten­tion back on the original question. The people replaced over forty pro-abortion members of Congress with pro-lifers in the November elections, while at the same time the pro­abortion President continues to lose credibility and his chances at re-election in 1996. 
This was the last straw for the pro-abortion 
movement. Their desperation turned fanati­
cal, as they launched a vicious campaign 
against the pro-life movement. Powerful pro­
abortion groups like the NOW, NEA, and 
ACLU used their political weight to toss alle­
gations around at every major pro-life person 
and group in the country. The ridiculous 
claim that sidewalk counseling (a peaceful 
technique which convinces some women not 
to get abortions, thus saving lives) is a direct 
cause of violence is a perfect example. In the 
frenzy, the allegations even trickled down to 
pro-life groups like the one here at Notre 
Dame. 
Such pro-abortion groups have recently 
flooded the national media with stories about 
John Salvi and the few people who support 
what he did in an attempt to convince 
Americans that pro-life groups are evil and, 
therefore, being pro-life is in some way 
wrong. I don't approve of what Salvi and Rev. 
Hill have done and believe that both should go 
to jail for their actions, but the fact that a cou­
ple of people attacked employees of abortion 
clinics does not change the fact that abortion 
is still the killing of an innocent life. In fact, 
nothing that anyone says or does regarding to 
abortion can change the true question­
whether or not abortion is wrong-nor can it 
change the answer. 
Given the medical evidence that abortion is 
the killing of an innocent life and the general­
ly accepted moral norm that killing innocent 
people is wrong, then it is extremely difficult 
to conclude anything other than that abortion 
is wrong-even without involving religion. 
The next time someone says that a woman's 
choice is more important than anything else, 
remember the words of Abraham Lincoln: 
"No one has the right to choose to do what is 
wrong." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tmurr's STAFF 
News Production Dave Ring Susan Marx Edward Imbus Belle Bautista 
Sports Accent Tim Seymour Krista Nannery Mike Norbut Graphics 
Lab Tech Tom Roland Tom 
The Observer • INSIDE 

Beijing complex 
A plan to construct an enormous shopping, office and resident plaza near Tiananmen Square is drawing criticism by those who feel that the 9.1 million-square­foot complex would ruin the character of the nearby Forbidden City. 
Volunteer doctors leave Rwanda 
BRUSSELS 
Doctors Without Borders announced Tuesday it was withdrawing from a refugee camp for 200,000 Rwandans because of fraud and threats against its staff. The inter­national medical aid agency was pulling out from its camp in eastern Zaire, because Hutu leaders in the camp tried to trick the census-takers into exaggerating the number of refugees to obtain more aid. It said efforts to control the count led to its workers being threatened. More than 1 million people fled Rwanda's civil war last summer for Zaire. Among them were Hutu soldiers and militia members accused of massacring about 500,000 people in Rwanda last spring. Most victims were from the minority Tutsi people. Aid agencies have complained their work in the camps is frequently disrupted by Hutu soldiers and militia men who steal aid and forcibly pre­vent other refugees returning home. 
States consider paddling for crimes 
JACKSON, Miss. 
When it comes to punishing scofflaws from graffiti artists to petty thieves, some lawmakers think the best idea is a good, old-fashioned spanking. Of several states that have considered the idea, Mississippi has gone the furthest. The state House adopted a bill Monday that would allow judges to order paddlings instead of prison sentences. The legislation does not spell out how, when, where or by whom the punishment would be adminis­tered. It would not apply to the most serious crimes, like murder or rape. "We have been packing them in the (prisons) by the thousands and still there's no end," said Rep. Steve Holland, a Democrat who pushed the proposal through. Opponents believe it is unconstitutionally cruel. 
.Smiles 
c:::s 
.5km 
Wednesday, February 8, 1995 

FBI knew about New York terrorists 
NEW YORK 
The FBI was on the trail of three of the World Trade Center bombers for nearly four years before the deadly explosion in the office towers, the government said Tuesday. 
In evidence presented at the trial of Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman and 10 others accused of waging a war of urban terror­ism, the FBI also said it had bugged the Muslim cleric's phone a week before the blast. 
The surprising testimony -a day after a key defendant switched sides -raised new questions about why the FBI was unable to prevent the 1993 bombing, which killed six people and injured 1,000. Prosecutors say the defendants planned to blow up the United Nations, the FBI's New York offices and the city's Holland and Lincoln tunnels and the George Washington Bridge. 
The prosecution has been trying to show that the trade center bombing was part of an overall plot and give jurors a connec­tion to something concrete, instead of plans that never made it off the drawing boards. 
Tuesday's testimony revealed that by mid-1989 the FBI had already begun sur­veillance on the group it says was trying to force the United States into changing its Middle East policies. 
Eiffel Tower receives face-lift 
PARIS 
Salah Zehar and his troupe are going to spend the next 14 months hanging around the Eiffel Tower. Equipped with alpine-style safety ropes and harnesses, their elite 25-man team Tuesday began one of the most spectacular jobs in their profession -repainting the world-famous monument from top to bottom. The painters, recruited for their poise and lack of vertigo, will smear 60 tons of "Eiffel Tower Brown" -a dark cinnamon -over the 18,000 metal pieces that comprise the 106-year-old mon­ument. In all, they will paint nearly 50 acres of surface on the tower that looms 1,045 feet over Paris. At no point during the project will the tower close to visitors. Safety nets minimize the chance of dropped equipment beaning a tourist. The painters are equipped with a stock of 1,500 paint brushes and use the same close-up tech­niques in practice when Gustav Eiffel built the tower in 1889. Spray paint and long-handled brushes are taboo. 
Hopkins drops suit against CEO 
BALTIMORE 
The corporation that runs Johns Hopkins Hospital issued a public apology and withdrew a $50 million law­suit against a former executive it had accused of dishon­esty and disloyalty. Johns Hopkins Health System Corp., a nonprofit corporation that runs the hospital and other medical facilities, had claimed in its lawsuit last spring that Barbara Hill, who ran its health maintenance orga­nization, secretly used her position to negotiate the 1991 sale of most of Hopkins' HMO to Prudential Insurance Co. of America. Hill later moved to Prudential, where she managed its HMO. The Hopkins corporation further claimed that Hill's actions caused the hospital to lose mil­lions of dollars a year. 


The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 8. 
Os 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 

Pressure ~ 
H L m ESI !Til 0 ~ § i:) L..J.U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORM$ FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vl.t AssoaatfKI Press 
Atlanta  37  17  Dallas  52 37  New Orleans50 32  
Baltimore  26  13  Denver  52 26  New York  3216  
Boston  27  14  LA  66 51  Philadelphia 25 16  
Chicago  19  13  Miami  72 48  Phoenix  7150  
Columbus 19  6  Minneapolis 23 14  St. Louis  2721  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Wednesday, February 8, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Panel opens debate on ordination of women 
By ROB CAHILL 
N~sWriter 
"The Women in the Church, Was it a Battlefield?" panel dis­cussion held Tuesday by the Committee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women pointed to roles that women have played in the past in the Church. These roles can be a guide for the modern question of whether or not women should be ordained, since they were as important or more important than the roles that male contemporaries of these women played. 
Mary Hose d'Angelo was the first speaker and her talk was titled "Women in the Begin­nings." She mainly focused on Romans 16, written by Paul. She showed how in Romans 16:1-15 women were given the same titles as men. One woman, Phoebe, was called a deacon. Another woman, Ju­nia, was called one of the most prominent among the apostles. d'Angelo demonstrated that at the very beginning of the Church, men and women were equal and Paul relied heavily on women to help him in his ministry. 
The second speaker was Ma­rina Smyth. Speaking on "Women in the Early Irish Church," she showed how women in Ireland played a major part in the conversion of the island along with St. Patrick during the fifth century. Smyth 

Freshman Orientation Chairperson 
Pick up applications in Student Government office 2nd floor Lafortune 
Today: 
Final Day 
focused primarily on St. Brid­get, who had the power of ap­pointing which men would be ordained. There is even the possibility that Bridget herself was ordained Bishop of an Irish diocese by accident, she said. 
Joseph Wawrykow was the third speaker, and his talk dis­cussed "The Women Authors of Helfta." He focused on Mechthild of Magdeburg, a woman who wrote "The Flow­ering Light of the Divinity" in the 13th century. Warwrykow said that "Mechthild would con­demn some priests as bad priests." She was a woman who was not afraid to speak against the evils of her time. 
The last speech, presented by Kathleen Biddick, was entitled "Priest will be Priests." She talked about the history of ab­jection, which is a history of schools of thought that the Church's eyes mainly ignores. Biddick's main focus was that women and men are social con­structs. She contended that the Church has stalled its position on its insistent distinction between men and women. She contended that this is an anti­quated notion, especially since the liatization and secular­ization of the 18th century which occurred mostly in France. 

Yesterday's arti~t'e on the student government debates misrepresented the ideas o two tickets. 
The Montoya-Fischer ticket does· not· include taxi coupons in its platform. The Delaney­Allen ticket proposes an ATM debit card machine, rather than a Mod Quad ATM as pre­viously reported. The Observer sincerely regrets the errors. 

Observer Marketing Department 

Put your talents to work! 


Client Service 
positions 
• 
Are you creative? 

• 
Do you enjoy good advertising? 

• 
Would you like to promote the accounts oflocal businesses? 

• 
Are you hard-working? 



Artists & Designers 
• 
Are you interested in commercial design? 

• 
Would you like the opportunity to work with the Observer's Marketing team? 

• 
Would you like your work to be seen daily by 13,000 


readers? 
• Are you hard-working? 

The Observer is welcoming resumes for the above paidpositions until Friday, February 
10. Ifyou have any questions contact Tom Lillig at 631-8839. 

Biddick also commented on how the Church's stance con­cerning AIDS is pertinent to the women in the Church debate. 
"AIDS goes to the heart of the conversion crisis. At best the Church's dealing with AIDS 
• ,~J FRI., FEB. 3 
2:58 pm An Alumni Hall resident re· ported the theft of his license plate from his vehicle parked In the 0·2 lot. 
11 :49 pm A Lewis Hall resident was transported to lhe Red Cross station at the JACC for treatment of an ankle injury. 
SAT., FEB. 4 
12:36 am A South Bend resident was arrested for driving while intoxicated. 
2:40 ~m A Sorin Hall resident reported being a victim of a hit·and-run accident on US31. 
3:31 am A Zahm Hall resident was transpOrted by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports 
has been ginger," she said. 
The speakers agreed, though, that the rich tradition of women involvement in the Church is a starting point for the modern day debate over whether or not women should be ordained. 
Injury. 
5:43 pm An off campus student was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for lreatment of a sports injury. 
SUN., FEB. 5 1:14pm A Grace Hall resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for trealment of a sports Injury. 
2:43 pm A Keenan Hall resident re· ported the theft of his Oiscman and tele· phone from his room. 
5:30 pm A Keenan Hall resident re· ported the theft of his watch from his room. 
AIIE-tiH?MIII 

HANDMADE UNISEX WOOL SWEATERS FROM GREECE COMING TO THE O'HARA LOUNGE FRIDAY IN I.AFORTUNE. 
• 
As seen in Pier 1, Structure, L.L. Bean, and J. Crew 

• 
Wholesale prices 

• 
Umited quantities available 

• 
Guaranteed quality 

• 
Also Debuting: Solid Sterling Silver Jewelry from the Greek Islands 


Thinking ofdoing ayearof service? How about doing it 
for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for informati~n: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
--------------~~~--~----------~­
~ -­
page4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 8, 1995 
Fe01inisD1 
continued from page 1 
dents are not even aware of what feminism is. 
"The biggest shock to me oc­curred when I was asking a women what she believed to be a feminist and she replied, 'someone who wears pink.' At this point I realized that there are a significant number of people at Saint Mary's who are not even familiar with the term 'feminist', " said Alexander. 
Alexander and Ryan also fo­cused on women's self-identi­ties towards feminism. Out of the 36 women interviewed, only one agreed to being a full­fledged feminist. Seventeen women agreed to being some­what a feminist, but did not want to be associated with feminists due to the radicality of feminists. These women were also frightened of men's responses towards feminism. 
"Many women feel that if they want to date a guy, they can't be feminists. For some reason, they think that femi­nism turns guys off," said Ryan. 
Women who denied being feminists did so because they view feminists as lesbians and women who reject traditional family values. They see femi­nists as fanatical women who are very vocal and disruptive. 
Alexander and Ryan con­cluded that there are four basic factors that lead to negative images of feminism: familial factors, the campus environ­ment, a presumed agenda of 
History 
continued from page 1 
Office of Multicultural Student Affairs. 
Besides promoting African­American heritage, several of the scheduled events will con­currently help young African Americans with college fmanc­the feminism, and most signifi­cantly, bias in the mass media. 
"Saint Mary's is identified by its students as immensely dif­ferent than other women's col­leges because it is not radical. Most students label the campus of Saint Mary's as conservative not in a political sense, but in the sense that it is a heterosex­ual environment with students who would like to possess a traditional family with children in the future," Ryan said. 
"I don't see a feminist atti­tude whatsoever at Saint Mary's. Before I came to Saint Mary's last year, my friend warned me about the feminist environment that exists at a women's college. A year later, she's more feminist than I am, because she's at the Kalamazoo, which is very lib­eral," said Saint Mary's sopho­more Cathy Roth. 
The main factor Alexander and Ryan regard as provoking negative attitudes towards fem­inism is the mass media, how­ever. 
"The mass media has sup­plied the American people with an extreme view of feminists as radicals. When I was interview­ing these women, I was amazed at how many of them were using Rush Limbaugh's imagery. It's astonishing that Rush Limbaugh is an instru­mental force in constructing feminism in the twentieth cen­tury," Alexander said. 
Alexander and Ryan will be presenting the results of their study of feminism at the Midwest Social Societies Conference this spring. 
ing. Proceeds from all events will benefit the Thurgood Marshall Scholarship fund. Each year, two incoming African American freshman at Notre Dame, a male and a fe­male, receive a $500 scholar­ship from the fund to help de­fray the costs of books. 
Despite the month-long cele­bration, Outlaw said she feels 
Sponsored activities seek support 
RHA desires more recognition, plans 'big event' 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI News Writer 
The members of Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association (RHA) discussed last night the importance of increasing cam­pus-wide support for activities sponsored by their organiza­tion. 
"RHA sponsors a lot events on campus, but doesn't get a lot of recognition because most stu­dents are more interested in Notre Dame activities than what is going on on their own campus. That says a lot about Saint Mary's students," said RHA member Margaret Couturier. 
The discussion was sparked by a request from SAB for a sig­nificant amount of money in order to attract the band Un­derwater People to campus. Both RHA officers and mem­bers objected to contributing the amount requested because, according to RHA President Jen Cherubini, "RHA will not be given the recognition that we want." 
Cherubini stated that she did 
African-American history is "something that should be cel­ebrated all year long, not just one month. Attending a uni­versity should be a holistic ex­perience, not just academic." 
Any questions dealing with the events can be answered by the Office of Multicultural Stu­dent Affairs. 
~OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for 
Appli=u should ~~~~d~2is~hl~~~b~~fumble in a man­
agement position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student is encouraged to apply. 
Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valu­able work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills, and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Please submit a 3 page personal statement ofintent and a resume to john Lucas by Wednesday, February 8 at 5:00p.m. For questions about the positions call Managing Editor john Lucas at 631-4541 or Business Manager joe Riley at 631-5313. 
not want RHA to continually be in the shadow of SAB. 
RHA did agree to contribute part of the amount requested, but there was a general feeling of reluctance to foot the entire bill. RHA has been planning all year to sponsor a single cam­pus-wide event that would re­ceive a lot of publicity and would attract most of the stu­dent body. To donate the amount of money requested by SAB would make the as yet unplanned "big event" impossi­ble. 
This decision prompted a dis­cussion about RHA's difficulty in achieving the goals that were set at the beginning of the year. 
According to Cherubini, "We want to increase the student body awareness of RHA (and its activities). No one is aware that RHA has a lot of clout with the administration and financial power." 
RHA Vice-President Kathy Pilcavage cited several reasons for the lack of awareness of RHA: "We're only a few years old, and there have been sev­eral different advisors over the years. SAB and BOG also have bigger boards and more fund­ing." 
Despite the alleged lack of student awareness, Cherubini emphasized the importance of RHA. "RHA works through the residence halls, so most of the student body has access to us since most of the student body lives on campus. We're always open to suggestions. Since the majority of our activities only affect a small percentage of the students, we'd like suggestions to increase the number of stu­dents who are interested in the organization." 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 

Valentine Bouquets starting at $59 
CALL 
BURN'S RENT-ALLS 
259-4807 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre with The Acting Company present: 
~STOOPS l!2 CONQlJER 
sv OLIVER GOLDSMITH 
Performed by the juilliard School Drama Division 
Thurs., Feb. 16, 8 pm Fri., Feb. 17, 8 pm Sat., Feb. 18, 8 pm 
Reserved Seats $14 Students and Senior Citizens $10 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office 
MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 
C!BE1ACTING 
COMPANY 
.1'1«.1'1-.... ~ ~ 
ZELDA tlCHANDLER MAHOOT HARLrY Anlttlt' Du-ri:tor f.&t'l'Uhwe Prudur .. r 
Wednesday, February 8, 1995 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Political parties not reliable for African aid 

The Observer/Brian Hardy Deborah Green expressed her frustration with both the Democrats and Republicans in giving inadequate aid to the countries of Africa. 
DESTINATION: AUSTRALIA 0' Laughlin Auditorium (SMC) February 10, 1995 Pre-show 7:30 p.m. Film 8:00 p.m. 
Sponsored by the South Bend Lions Club. 
Bring in this ad and get two tickets for the rice ofone 
By TIM BOWERS 
News Writer 
Despite heated pressure by lobbies for increased aid to Africa, neither the Republicans nor the Democrats are willing to initiate such a step, declared Deborah Green, a Congres­sional lobbyist speaking on "Perspectives on Africa: The Clinton Administration in the Light of a Republican Congress," in a lecture spon­sored by the Notre Dame African Students' Association in commemoration of Black History Month. 
Green argued that, with the new Republican majority in both the House of Representa­tives and the Senate, Africa is neither gaining nor losing. De­spite the normal characteriza­tion that Democrats are good and Republicans are bad by the activist "grassroots" African community, Green emphasized, "This is not necessarily true." 
Green backed her statement by citing that the citizens of Zaire were overjoyed when President Clinton was elected with a Democratic majority al­ready present in Congress. However, Clinton went against his campaign promises to de­feat Zairian dictator Mobutu. Instead of celebrating freedom from dictatorial rule, Green stated that "within three months (the people of Zaire) were dying in the streets." 
Another criticism Green made of the Clinton Administration was its failure to effectively halt widespread genocide in Rwanda. Instead of increasing forces against Hutu-led massacres in the region, Clinton instead decided to cut in half the peacekeeping contingent. Green suggested that this move by the Administration served to solidi­fy allegations that Democrats are no longer necessarily pro­Africa. 
On the other hand, Green criticized the GOP as well. She quoted Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich as saying, ''I'm a hawk, but I'm a cheap hawk." Her response to this was that, under such leadership, further foreign aid cuts will undoubt­edly be made by the new Congress. 
Currently, only 1 percent of the US budget is allotted for African assistance, and Green expressed concern that a cut in this miniscule sum would be detrimental to troubled areas of the continent. As it stands, South Africa receives most of that 1 percent of assistance, and Green argued that other areas of the region, like Zaire and Rwanda, should be isolat­ed by the American Government as areas most in need. 
The new Republican-led Congress should "focus their zeal" on creating new policy towards Africa instead of trying to hold on to old policy that was conceptualized in a difflft­ent world concentrating on the cold war, Green asserted. 
Green suggested that instead of being so wary of aggressive foreign-assistance programs, Republicans should work to enact legislation that would help to stabilize areas of Africa and, in doing so, foster democ­ratic movements where they were formerly quelled. 
"Africa needs aid from their American friends," Green sum­marized. She expressed hope that the new Congress would work to improve American­African relations. 
In the end, though, she did not seem very hopeful. "I don't feel pessimistic," she said. "I feel realistic." 
The Student Union Board is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Executives (the really important people): Board Manager (the big cheese) 

AnTostal Commissioner 
Campus Entertainment Commissioner 
Cultural Arts Commissioner 
Ideas and Issues Commissioner 
Music Commissioner 
Sophomore Literary Festival Director of Programming Director of Relations Director of Creativity and Advertising Controller 
BookStore Basketball Commissioner Collegiate Jazz Festival Commissioner Diversity Commissioner Movies Commissioner Services Commissioner Special Events Commissioner 
Office Managers (1-2 positions available) Graphic Designers (3-4 positions available) Assistant Controllers (3-4 positions available) RQBQCQP (only one position available so apply soon) 

Get some extra 
~ash for sYour Chance to 
Spring BrE3c::::~~-<• 
WHEN: Thursday, February 9 TIME: 8:00p.m. WHERE: Carroll Auditorium-SMC COST:, JUST $2.00! 
---------~­
page 6 
Students 
continued from page 1 
Emanuela agreed, noting "To know and understand other cultures is in itself edu­cation." 
"American students have many advantages over stu­dents in less-developed coun­tries. Not only are the facili­ties more advanced but when, for example, you discuss large companies in subjects like eco­nomics they are a reality here. In Tanzania, we discuss com­panies like GM and Ford, but they are in America not in Tanzania," said Emanuela. 
Emanuela and Prediganda hope to continue their educa­tion in America, but they would bQth like to eventually return to Tanzania to work for the Tanzanian people. Prediganda will continue working for the Mama Clementina Foundation to aid the less fortunate villagers while Emanuela hopes to attend law school. 
Through all their experi­ences abroad, the two sisters place things in perspective. "We do not regret that we were born in Kilema because the village serves as a source of strength," Emanuela said. "We are grateful that the College was able to recognize a child from the villages because it is usually only the children of influential ministers and administrators that are able to receive an American educa­tion." 
While they have been in America, Emanuela and Predi­ganda rely on several area families that host them during breaks even though the College offers campus housing to the sisters during vacation time. 

-----~---------------------~------~------~--~-------­
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 8, 1995 
Council quiet on GLND/SMC issue 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Assistant News Editor 
ln the wake of the resolutions passed by the Campus Life Council on Monday night, Hall Presidents' Council members remained silent last night on the issue regarding the Uni­versity's decision to expel the Gay and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's from the University Counseling Cen­ter. 
At its meeting, the CLC voted to recognize and support the ef­forts of GLND/SMC and to ask Patricia O'Hara, vice-president of Student Affairs, to attend the next meeting in order to ex­plain in person the decision not to recognize GLND/SMC. 
A third proposal, "to con­demn the University's action to expel GLND/SMC from campus and call upon the University to recognize GLND/SMC as an in­tegral part of the Notre Dame community deserving of all rights and privileges afforded 
The Observer 
is now looking for an 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Looking for someone with extensive experience supporting Macintosh computers: including networking, hardware maintenance, training, user support and general knowledge. Earn up to $40 per week. Contact Sean Gallavan 
631-8839 (work) 232-7991 (home)
L __ 

@@~~~~Ill ij~e' 

other campus groups," failed to receive the two-thirds majority necessary for passage. 
Rich Palermo, co-chairman of the HPC, read the three resolu­tions at the HPC meeting last night, but none of the HPC members responded to the pro­posals. 
Hilary Bonenberger, the other co-chair of the council, said that she would prefer to defer a resolution regarding the GLND/SMC controversy until after she hears what O'Hara says at the CLC meeting next week. 
"I can't speak for other mem­bers of HPC, but I would like to wait until we see what happens at the CLC meeting before we make any motions," she said. 
The CLC has more influence than the HPC in stimulating a response from the administra­tion, according to Bonenberger. 
"The CLC has more power than the HPC," she said. "If something is passed by the CLC, then (O'Hara) has seven days to respond." 
Both Bonenberger and Palermo also serve on the CLC, and share a vote between them on the CLC. 
In other HPC news 
• 
The decision made last week to allocate $500 to each dorm must be approved by the Senate Budget Committee be­

• 
Also, the possibility of plac­ing HPC's remaining money into a contingency fund must be 


fore  the funds  can  be  dis­ 
bursed, Palermo said.  The­ 
committee meets tonight.  

JAZZMAN'S 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. HILL ST 233-8505 
Presents an action packed Rock &Roll show plus 
Seniors Night this Thursday. 
'featuring 
Sweep the Leg Johnny 
james Bukow -Drums, Wilfred Freve-Bass, Christopher Daly-guiw, SI!!Ven Sostak-vocals and saxaphone 
GUESTDJ'S 
The Palmster-lower level & Tony 0.-upper level 
All 21 and over students with IO's admitted for $1.00 all night. 
Entertainment starts at 9:30 pm, free admission before 9:30 with student 10. $3.00 after 9:30 pm with student 10. 
Watch for a very special 
Jazzman's Valentine College Night 
Tuesday, February 14 
state law prohibits night club's from admitting people under 21 

pl~~ 
approved by the Senate Budget Committee, Palermo said. Cur­rently, the Council has $16,000 which have not yet been desig­nated for use. By putting part of that amount into a contin­gency fund, the Council will be able to retain its claim to the money for next year. 
Please, Recycle The Observer 



Wednesday, February 8, 1995 The Observer • U.S. NEWS page 7 
Gingrich ethics under attack $1.6 trillion budget 
By LARRY MARGASAK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Defending his ethics and those of his wife, House Speaker N e w t Gingrich complained 
Tuesday he's 
Newt Gingrich 
been "inves­tigated, scru­tinized, smeared and attacked" by liberals who detest his conservative ideas. 
"They hate the idea that we're winning," a bristling Gingrich asserted. 
Although he was responding to questions from reporters, Gingrich dearly was poised to 
1995 French Film Festival Tonite @ 7:00pmCushing Auditorium $1 admission 
Set in Martinique(a French Department) in 1931, the film "traces a young boy's escape from poverty through a combination of ambition, education, a surrogate father's wisdom, and a grandmother's indomitability. "Sugar Cane Alley is the work of a world class filmmaker and is to be seen and savored ... " ~ 
Andrew Sarris --Village Voice .Jl.W 
BRING THIS AD IN FOR FREE ADMISSION --­
Love Bites 
Join us for alook at love: true, unrequited and iust down right sick. There will be free popcorn, soda and Valentine·s Day cookies. All of this is brought to you by the Office of 
strike back at his critics. He identified them as "tax and spend liberals" who were try­ing to put him through "Chinese water torture." 
"Every other day somebody on the left launches a new at­tack," Gingrich said, contend­ing he's been "sensitive to ethics issues for my entire ca­reer." His comments came as the House ethics committee prepared to meet -possibly this week -to decide how to proceed on complaints against him. 
Gingrich defended his wife's job with a company seeking a free trade zone in Israel; his book deals; his assistance to a company in his district, and his featured appearance Tuesday night at a $50,000 per couple dinner to benefit National Em-


Student Activities. 
8:00 

10:00 
Friday, Feb 10 
12:00 
2:00 
When a Man Loves a Woman 
Jagged Edge 
Four Weddings 
and a Funeral 
Fatal Attraction 
powerment Television -which carries his lectures. 
Gingrich's broadside had no apparent effect on liberal Democrats, who have been making floor speeches every day to attack his ethics and conservative beliefs. 
"This lavish dinner speaks volumes about who Republicans represent," said Rep. Rosa DeLaura, D-Conn., wte of several lawmakers who make daily demands for an out­side ethics counsel to investi­gate the speaker. 
"They are dining with the elite at the same time Republi­cans are opposing a minimum wage increase for American workers. A fulltime minimum wage worker would have to work five and three-quarter years to buy a seat at Mr. Gin­grich's table." 
Added Rep. Patricia Schroeder, D-Colo., another persistent critic: "I don't think Newt's views qualify as news and I don't think that's what the tax code was meant to back." 
Democrats said $19,000 of the contribution to the non­profit cable network was tax deductible. 
Gingrich seemed angriest Tuesday when discussing news stories questioning the job his wife, Marianne, has with a marketing company seeking 
U.S. business for a free trade zone in Israel. 
Mrs. Gingrich was hired for a $2,500 monthly salary, but she also would earn commissions for recruiting firms for an in­dustrial park, which would op­erate free of most taxes in the zone. 
"Why are wives being brought into this?" Gingrich pointedly asked. "She works for a private company. She does no lobbying for the U.S. government or the U.S. Congress of any kind. She is a professional planner by back­ground. 
ignites capitol debate 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton's $1.61 tril­lion budget got a chilly re­sponse from Congress today with the Republicans now in control vowing to rewrite it from top to bottom to achieve greater deficit reduction. 
As the administration de­fended its program before two key congressional committees, it was clear that major battles lie ahead over how much to grant the middle class in tax relief and how much to cut. popular benefit programs such as Medicare. 
Republicans and Democrats on the House and Senate bud­get committees spent time snip­ing at Clinton's budget and arguing over whether the gov­ernment can afford to provide tax relief facing such enormous deficits. 
"The president's budget is an abdication of leadership," Sen. Charles Grassley, R-lowa, com­plained to Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin and Laura Tyson, head of the· president's Council of Economic Advisers. 
"He is submitting a budget that says, 'Let Congress lead. Let Congress make the tough choices,"' Grassley said. 
But Rubin and Tyson de­fended the spending plan, say­ing it built on the progress Clinton achieved with his initial $505 billion deficit reduction program, which they noted was passed without a single Repub­lican vote. 
House Republicans continued to push for their "Contract With America," which promis­·es $200 billion in tax cuts, com­pared with Clinton's more mod­est $63 billion plan, plus a hal-. anced budget by the year 2002, a goal estimated to require $1.2 trillion in additional deficit cuts, compared with Clinton's proposed $144 billion. 
"I am very disappointed to have the document that we have in front of us," House 

consU!er spend.i.ng ei-9ht weeks of you.r su.mmer worfd,ng wi.tS a d.isad.vantageci 
popu!a.tion 
sponsored. by Notre Dame Aeu.mni.. CCu.&s across the country 
-a woncierfuL Cea.rni.ng experience -$1500.00 Socia! Concerns Sch.oCarshi.p 
-5 TheoCogy crecii.ts 
.9Lpp[ication dead[ine: 
~ebruary 81 r. 
i.n.formatton avai!a.b(e at the. Center for Socia! Concerns 
Qucstl.ons: -IJO"' Kaa: Rep or s ... c .. nni.ruJfuun ..t u.. esc 
BUDGET<1)'96 
Tax cuts included in President Clinton's proposed 1996 budget would help the middle class most. How the tax break package would be distributed: 
$1()..20,000 $200,000 1.%
and over 
0.6% ·--·-·-....._... _ 
(19941ncome levels) 
Source: Dept. of Treasury, Office of Tax Analysis 
AP/Carl FOl 
Budget Committee Chairman John Kasich, R-Ohio, told White House Budget Director Alice Rivlin. "We have got to stop the politics and we have got to get down to the right policies." 
Top administration officials were told bluntly by GOP mem­bers of the Senate Budget Committee that Clinton's plan would be changed dramatically by Republicans intent on bal­ancing the budget by the year 2002 instead of the deficits hovering around $200 billion projected in Clinton's plan. 
"This budget is going to have to be rewritten and rewritten substantially," Sen. Don Nick­les, R-Okla., told Rubin and Tyson. 
The administration had hoped Clinton's $1.61 trillion spending plan for 1996 with its middle class tax relief and avoidance of unpopular cuts in government benefit programs would be a political crowd pleaser. But instead it was drawing fire from both Repub­licans and Democrats. 

The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 8, 1995 
Chechens speak of Russian brutality 
its ··· 
approach Third els"YrlTAR..Tass r Tuesday. .• '< ... 
tkThe news a···J·~·e ncy th~ State Committee as Russia's population 124.000 in 1994 
million. 
w• ·Labor Minister. G Melikian ·blamed economic crisis, led to lower living !ILnlltuu.t·u:., rising crime and collapse of the system:'.Hih 
According . figures, .Russia's · ·u~(·~W""9o•'!1'!' rose by 8 percent 
15.6 deaths per... l,QQIQ:P~tl:!i.~l 
ple. The birth rate unchange~ at ~.4
l,OOOpeopte:.,+······· 

·lJ.S/lideath 
deaths· 
·• according ·. 
Disease · and Prevention in· n.Ml~.......... The birth rate is 1,000 people. . 
Russia's life expfM~tancy figures declined from 67 years for<men and 74 years for women in 1989 to 59 and .. 72 respectively in 199~ , .• lower than all major indus­trialized countries and approaching Third Worlq
levels. · 
American men live an average of 72.1 years/'and women 78.9 years, accor(.\­ing to the National Center for Health Statistics. 
By MAXIM KORZHOV 
Associated Press 
MALGOBEK, Russia 
At the end of December, he left his home in Siberia to try to rescue his aunt from the war in Chechnya. 
Abdul-Vagap Chitayev, 41, di­rector of a small construction company, never made it to his aunt's place in Grozny. Instead, he was taken prisoner by Rus­sian soldiers during their New Year's Eve attack on the Chechen capital. 
Now recovering in a hospital in Malgobek, 75 miles north­west of the Chechen capital, Chitayev is pale and exhausted. The Chechen's legs had been stabbed, his ribs were broken, his lungs and kidneys injured -and he can't walk. 
"Tl;le soldiers told us they were trying to protect us from bombing and would soon let us go," said Chitayev. Instead, he said he was kept in the base-

AP 
have been beaten while in cus­tody, but says any suspected incidents of serious abuse are checked. 
"When there are complaints or suspicion of wrongdoing, a criminal investigation is or­dered or the superiors are told to conduct their own," said Alexei Petrenko, an Interior Ministry spokesman. 

The Snite Museum ofArt presents a 
COLLEGE FELLOW EVENT 
"Sacred Drama and the Earth: 
Shamanism in NativeAmerica' 
Speaker: Patrick Gaffney, C.S.C. 
Associ~te professor in the department ofAnthropology 
Thursday, February 9th at 4:15 p.m. 
in rhe Native American Gallery The Snite Museum ofArt University ofNotre Dame 
A reception will follow in the atrium of the museum. 
They are fright­ened, do not sleep and cry in their sleep," said Magomet Katsushadze. 
Chitayev said a Russian army major stole more than $2,000 from him. 
Then, a half­hour after his re­lease on Jan. 23 he was arrested by troops wear­
ing black masks, the trademark of the dreaded OMON, the special police force of the Interior Ministry. 
Chechens say OMON forces, who often stand guard at checkpoints with regular sol­diers, suddenly appear in heli­copters or in armored vehicles and arrest people and take them to Mozdok. 
The Interior Ministry ac­knowledged some Chechens 
\.. 
1994-95 PAUL M. AND BARBARA HENKELS 
VISITING SCHOLARS SERIES 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS ~~ UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Masculinity in the 1990s 
co-sponsored by: Departments of American Studies, Anthropology, Government, and Sociology; Concentration in Gender Studies; Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Multicultural Executive Council 
All lectures will be held in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 4:00p.m. 
Thursday, Feb. 9 
Dr. Michael Messner 
Department of Sociology, University of Southern California 
"Orgaoized Sports and the Construction of Masculinity" 
The Henkels Visiting Scholars Series is a program of the College of Arts and Letters/
For more information: 
University of Notre Dame, and is made possible by a generous endowment provided byProf. Joan Aldous 
Paul M. and Barbara Henkels.
Department of Sociology University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

CollegeofArlsandLeners
(219)'631-5281 
University ofNotre Dame 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 8, 1994 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DMIE 0HICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief jake Peters 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
John Lucas  Joseph Riley  
News Editor ................................ David Tyl<r  Advertising Manager............................. Eric Lorge  
Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry  Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan Maylayter  
Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery  Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan  
Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall  Observer Marketing Dircctor...............Tom Lillig  
Saint Mary's Editor............... E1izabeth Regan  Controllcr..................................... Kristen Martina  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does nm necessarily rcAect the policies of the administra­tion of either instimtion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­ttJCials «present the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lcuen and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Gcncrallnformation 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• DESIDERATA 
Societal differences elicit support, stunt development 
As I near the end of this academic home here. They know that not only year, I am continually reminded that, has my Notre Dame experience failed to next year, I must venture forth into new change or deter me in pursuit of my val­surroundings. While I do not plan on ues, but it has affirmatively fostered the this as a permanent arrangement-I characteristics that make me who I am. would like to return to Notre Dame Every step of the way, I have felt that someday, in some capacity-the immedi-the people with whom I have come into ate future spells out the harsh reality contact here have admired my individ­
that, at least for the=============:::=::::= uality and encour­
lime being, I must leave. Many people are sur- Kl. rsten  
priscd that I am not thrilled to death about getting on with my life. Not only do they see thc "real world" as  D nne0  
eminently  more  at­ 
tractive than this acad­ 
ernie setting-a  con­ 

tention I have never been able to com-prehend-but they cannot understand why I, as an individual. like it here. 
Let me explain what I feel to be the souree of their amazement. I don't like to attach a label to my mode of dress, but I can say that it is different and notieeablc, especially on this campus. My ideas tend to stand out as liberal and even extreme among the conservative values which prevail in this community. And those that know me can attest to the fact that I have my own ways of doing things, ways which might be seen as eccentric. In short, I am very much my own person. 
People whose mannerisms conform more to societal expectations tend to think I could not possibly be happy in this environment. They presume I have a hard time. They gasp in shock when they learn that, after receiving my undergraduate education here, I chose to come back for law school. They con­tinually remind me especially in this final stretch. that I am about to "get out". and they expect me to be happy about it. 
Of course my close friends and family know better. They know that I dread leaving this place, because I feel at 
aged me to adhere to it. And I am not speaking only of 
my friends. When 
it comes to this col­
umn. for example.
the support I re­
ceive comes as well 
from ac­
quaintances and 
even complete strangers. These and other things lead me to naturally to the conclusion that the confidence and conviction I possess today come in large part from the expe­riences that have made up my years as a member of the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community. 
Unfortunately, it appears that this environment is not as conducive to the development of some as it is to others, and recently it has become even more clear than before that the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community is not a particularly encouraging place for non­heterosexuals. Many members of GLND/SMC are good friends of mine, and I have been aware of the setbacks the group has experienced over the years-harassing phone calls, cruel let­ters to the editor and personal ads, and the refusal of the administration to legit­imate the group's existence. Now they face another. The administration has told the members of GLND/SMC that they cannot even meet on campus to dis­cuss common concerns and hardships. 
I think that this latest blow goes fur­ther than those the administration has leveled against GLND/SMC in the past. It is basically telling the group, that, in the administration's eyes, GLND/SMC 
• DOONESBURY 
7HAT'S CAUWA PUf3U{,JTY 
5T/U-. IT~ fROM'PoRJ<Y'5 
!L"A MOVI& YOUR MOMMY 
wow.., 
NA~ IN. 5H/3 PLAY&P 7HIR/? GIRJ... IN 5HOW&R. 
has no place in the Notre Dame family. It is telling the members that this is not a place where they can feel at home, for they are now precluded from even gath­ering to support each other on campus. It is almost like denying the very exis­tence of these people. And the fact that the members of GLND/SMC have had such a difficult time at this University saddens me, not only because they are my friends but because they are human beings and they deserve to be treated as such. 
However, I have faith that this sorry state of affairs can change. I feel that I can analogize my own situation to that of the members of GLND/SMC in that I, like them, deviate from the Notre Dame 
U
nfortunately, it appears that this environment is not as conducive to the develop­ment of some as it is to others, and recently it has become even more clear than before that the Notre Dame/St. Mary's community is not a particularly encouraging place for non-het­erosexuals. 
"norm." I have received support. and I believe there is likewise support out there for the non-heterosexual commu­nity-probably more than we think. 
The problem is that much of the sup­port remains silent, and as a recent let­ter to the editor pointed out our failure to speak out is a probable reason for the perpetuation of the Universities atti­tudes and policies regarding homosexu­als. I cannot guarantee that speaking one's mind will change the administra­tion's long-standing treatment of gays and lesbians on this campus. But I can say that it is definitely a much-needed 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
W/3U,IT'S NOT 
AUFUN,~AM. 
YOU6liTtuA'/eR. IN YOUR /3Ye5. 
step in the right direction. And the let­ter to the editor I just mentioned, signed by over 70 people, stands as evidence that at least some people are willing to take a stand. The vote by the GSC regarding the University's recent action does likewise. 
My experience at Notre Dame has been truly wonderful. People have accepted me and encouraged me to be myself, despite the fact that I do not con­form to all societal expectations. Gays and lesbians on this campus also differ from the majority of the population, but unfortunately they have not had the same experience that I have had. I believe that this can change, because I feel that many of the members of our community can see fit to acknowledge the humanity of these people, whether or not they can condone this "lifestyle." The gays and lesbians of the Notre Dame family are not asking much. They only want the basic privilege of meeting to discuss concerns which affect their daily lives. If you agree with me that they serve at least this much, please act on it. Make it known that you object to the administration's treatment of these members of our family. Help to assure that this sector of the University commu­nity will leave Notre Dame feeling that his place has contributed to their devel­opment as persons, rather than demeaning them. 
One of the many things which distin­guishes me from my peers is the fact that I do not want to leave Notre Dame, I doubt that many people will become as attached to the place as I have. But all of us who spend time in this environ­ment should be able to come away with it with positive feelings. If nothing else, we should be able to say that we were treated with respect and a basic level of human dignity. For whether or not we conform to the majority, I think we all deserve at least that much. 
Kirsten Dunne. ND '92, is a third-year law student. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
" A. s to the people, they 
1-\.have no understanding, 
and only repeat what their 
rulers are pleased to tell 
them." 
-Plato 
ELECTION '95 
page 10 Wednesday, February 8, 1995 
Candidates present platforms 
Editor's note: The platforms in this 3 page special section have been arranged in alphabetical order. 
Jenny J.P. 
ALLEN DELANEY 
F
irst and foremost, we want our administration to be the voice of the students. Our platform is based on ideas brought forth in discussion with students who hold differ­ent ideals for Notre Dame. At the same time we are realistic. Hotlines and open phone lines may not bring all of the cam­pus' problems or suggestions for improvement to Dave and Matt; part of the president's role is to be proactive with the student body: to research each organizations' goals and find out what problems students have brought to their attention. We don't pretend to have all of the solutions and will be happy to test the feasibility of any ideas which will be beneficial to campus groups regardless of their origin. 
To this end we have re­searched several programs which will bring convenience to the daily lives and long term needs of Domers. The first is our plan to overcome the prob­lems associated with the dis­tance separating us from town. For years the administration has prevented businesses from infiltrating or even coming near campus. It also has refused to provide adequate parking for most of South Quad. In initiating a "cab coupon book" we will provide a convenient method for stu­dents to go to area establish­ments. We have approached several taxi services with this idea and have recieved positive feedback with Mishawaka Cab agreeing to participate immedi­ately. 
We also plan on installing ATM debit machines in the venues of LaFortune. Students 
'We have re­searched sev­eral programs which will bring convenience to the daily lives and long term needs of Darners.' 
Jenny Allen and Jim Delaney 
will no longer need to deal with the long lines at the Bookstore and Lafortune cash machines just to buy a Snapple. Simply run your card through the ma­chine in the Huddle and the transaction will be complete. We will also push for the re­placement of the Chinese food counter, possibly with a bakery featuring muffins, rolls, cook­ies, and bagels. This idea was also supported by a Huddle manager. 
We would like to reform the 
Guide as well. We realize that 
it is a valuable tool for some, but lies unused by others. In order to avoid the costs of pub­lishing the books for the entire campus we propose that it be placed on Courseware for those who use it. A few volumes of hardcopy could also be put on reserve in the library. 
Bringing back the Book Fair is another one of our adminis­tration's goals. It was a suc­cessful endeavor and helped to keep money in the student hands rather than in Hammes'. We plan such improvements as dorm book dropoffs and book listings on Courseware updated daily to make the Fair even better. Along those same lines we would like to start a Rummage Sale allowing stu­dents to sell old couches, car­pets, lamps, and lofts in the comforts of their own rooms. Scheduled sale dates for each dorm will allow for more op­tions for sellers and buyers. 
Lastly, we will launch a Winter festival in January to inaugurate the new year. It will be a shortened An Tostal featuring concerts, speakers, and events. In addition, we plan on keeping pressure on the administation to install cable t.v., to upgrade fitness areas, and to improve campus security. 
Our experience includes: 
Jenny Allen: 
•Co-President of Pasquerilla West 

•HPC Fundraising Committee 
•"Meet your Major Night" Co­ordinator 
•Soph. Class Academic 
Commissioner Jim Delaney: 
•Co-President 
of Alumni-Hall 

•HPC 
Budget Committe 


•Soph. Class Fundraising Committee 
•Freshman Class Representative 
All of our goals have been planned to alleviate problems posed to us by the student body. They have been researched and their imple­mentation is feasible. However. these ideas are not the sole plans for our adminis­tration. If other concepts come to be the desires of the student body we will inact them with equal fervor. 

W
e want what you want, no matter what that may be. It's just that simple. In our campaign their are neither political aspi­rations nor egos. This is your campaign. You pay 20 grand to go to school here, and you pay $55 for a student activity fee. So for people to spend that money foolishly is a violation 
against you. 
We have no vested interest in any ideas. only the ideas you vote for. If you like another ticket's ideas give us a call and tell us. The election on February 27th will contain all the ideas we receive from you. We will spend every available penny on the ideas that the stu­dent body chooses. Now you 
Matt Robert 
GOLISH BRETT 
ask. exactly how much money tions, and we will spend your students to choose the best pos­are you talking about? Well, the dollars where you, yourself sible ticket and we won't play money we have for student would spend them. politics to eliminate other can­ideas is about $39527.86. And didates. Our goal is to rep­considering last year's budget David Hungeling and resent you, not to use this as a of $70500, it's quite a chunk of Matthew Orsagh have done a springboard for a political ca­change. great service by opening reer or a way to get into law 
Student Government's door to school. 
Now you ask where did this you. Our job is to make you money come from ? It comes walk in and tell us what you Our Student Housing from cutting the waste and think. With the cable referen-Initiative of Tomorrow program inefficiencies out of govern­will change the face of Notre ment. We want to put the 'well, the money Dame. The idea is going to Guide on the courseware serv­we have for allow you to live in a safe, er, that would save $4523. friendly, off-campus communi­
student ideas is about
The secretary in Student ty. We need neither University Government is retiring at the $39527.86. And con­support nor substantial Student end of this year, the portion of Government funds for this pro­
sidering last year's
her salary that we pay has his­ject. Although, everyone we torically been one of the largest budget of $70500, it's have discussed it with seems expenses. By not hiring some­more than willing to help. This
quite a chunk of
one to replace her, we can save new housing plan would signifi­you $6958. And personally, change.' cantly increase the quality of neither one of us is pretentious off-campus life and the social enough to be 21 years old and options for those of us on-cam­have a full time professional Matt Go/ish and Robert Brett pus. secretary. 
dum already on its way to be­We don't play politics. We 
We also plan to stay on bud­coming a reality, David and will tell you what we think, not get with other activities such as Matt have proven that you do just what you want to hear. We Board of Trustees Reports, not have to be a career politi­will not skirt issues. Student Transfer Orientation, and the cian to get things done in Government needs to empha­National Catholic Organization. Student Government. size the student aspect more People in student government than the government. We will do not think they're spending We would also like you to continue to take Student money when they allocate it to know that we are one of only Government from the elite few, a group. Its just a piece of two tickets that did not sign the and give it back to you, the paper, we realize there is actu­letter to remove another ticket Student Body. al cash behind those transac-from the ballot. We want the 
ELECTION '95
Wednesday, February 8, 1995 page 11 
Stacey Todd 
KIELBASA LEAHY 
M
any of our peers feel that student government is self serving and that it pads more resumes rather than addressing student eoncerns. However, we view the offices of Student Body President and Vice-President as opportunities to serve you, the students. We will actively serve your needs by translating your ideas into feasible proposals. 
Our diversified experience has cautioned us against mak­ing promises we cannot fulfill. We have already researched all of our proposals with a wide range of University ollicials and community business leaders in an attempt to present you with attainable goals. 
In addition to our realistic proposals, we are the most q ualifind tieket on the ballot. Stacny's expnrience as Academic Commissioner and Exncutive Coordinator of Student Life has provided her with a elnar understanding of the complicated univnrsity sys­tt!m of government. Todd's ex­pnrienee as Grace Hall Prcsidtmt has made him aware of thn daily needs of the stu­dent body. This combination of politieal and personal puts us in toueh with the student and allows us to deal effeetively with the administration. 
This blending of the personal and the political is clearly reflected in our platform. Our 72 Hour guarantee is our com­mitment to soliciting student input. We will set up a phone line and e-mail account speeifi­cally for students to voice their complaints, ideas, and/or com­ments. We guarantee you a response within 72 Hours. 
In addition to our 72 Hour 
'our diversified 
experience has cautioned us against making promises we cannot fulfill. We have already researched all of our proposals with a wide range of University officials and community business leaders in an attempt to present you with attain­able goals.' 
Stacey Kielbasa and Todd Leahy 
Guarantee, our platform includes two proposals de­signed to increase both student safety and mobility. The Saferide program allows stu­dents to get around campus quickly and safely at night by providing a van staffed with Safewalk workers between the hours of 10 p.m. and 2 a.m. The Need a Lift program is both economical and depend­able; allowing students to trav­el off campus through the use of discounted taxi coupons. 
The Day at the Office Program and the Strategic Seminars are both opportuni­ties for students to try some­thing new. The Day at the Office program is a program which will give students access to the working world, while the Strategic Seminars allow students to participate in new activities and interact with other students on campus. 
The Bargain Books proposal and the Grab-n-Go Detour were created to increase the quality of student life on cam­pus. The Bargain Books pro­gram is a response to students' desire to bring back the Book Fair. We have modified the format of the project in order to guard against theft and make it more convenient for student to resell their books. The Grab-n-Go Detour has been designed to help alleviate the traflic at South Dining Hall during lunch periods and will speed up the Grab-n-Go pro­cess. 

We have made an errort to provide a platform to students which addresses their needs both on and off campus. We would like to note that while many of our programs are new, they require no significant expansion of student govern­ment. The only program which will require the creation of a new committee and funding is the Day at the Office program. Therefore, we present you with this realistic platform and offer you our commitment to serving you and your needs. 
Kevin Larissa 
KLAU HERCZEG 
T
he following platform combines tangible cam­pus-wide improvements while cmating more avenues for stu­dt!nts to voice their opinions and concerns about decisions which will directly affeet them. We hav1~ broken it down into four eatngories: 1) Hesources; 2) Studnnt Voice; 3) Fun; and 4) Safety. 
Resources 
Cable TV in each dorm room-ESPN, CNN, and a movie channel, among others. Long overdue, the Trustees Report on Cable illustrated that this was important to the students. If a majority of students respond positively to thn refer­endum question about cable on the ballot, our experienee on this issue will allow us to see this projeet through until eaeh room is hooked up. 
Mod Quad ATM-Both Soeiety Bank and the Administration havn expressed a sincere inter­est in installing a third ATM. The key rnmaining issue seems to be location. It could be placed on the wall of PW closest to Flanner. or next to the mail­box in the middle of the quad, or even behind Grace if the Administration was concerned about disrupting Mod Quad's natural beauty. 
der relations held last semester was extremely successful in generating discussion about the issue. However, students need to have a more consistent op­portunity to address ongoing concerns (e.g. the recognition of homosexuals, etc.). The forums, open to students, faculty, and administrators would also allow people to better understand how and where Student Government money is being spent.
'we feel that crit­ical decisions that affect all of us require a consistent student voice.' 
Kevin Klau and 
Larissa Herczeg 
Student Representative on the Board of Trustees-The Trustees have expressed a de­sire to better understand stu­dent perceptions, and we feel that critical decisions that affect all of us require a consistent student voice. There is no cost involved, yet everyone (stu­dents, Administration, and the 
Fun 
Clarify roles of SUB and Student Government-SUB should be the organization re­sponsible for entertainment. Yet Student Government has its own money for speakers, con­certs, and other events. This overlap can easily be elimi­nated. We will also work to in­crease the AnTostal budget by 1/3, allowing SUB to decide how best to improve the annual spring festival. 
Football Tickets-We would like to work with the Director of Ticketing, Bill Scholl, to follow through on strides made by the current administration to cre­ate a ticket exehange program similar to the one used this year for the Navy game. Any student would be able to turn in their ticket to the Athletic Department, plus $15 (the dif­ference of the cost between a student tieket and a GA). and receive a GA for the same game. The Athletic Department is eager to pursue such a plan as a way to eliminate having students sneak non-students into games on student tickets. Also, because of the stadium renovations. we are eager to have input about where the stu­dent section will be located once the expansion is complete. 

-
.. 
Expand Off-Campus Bus number of students having to Service-We want to increase walk in poorly-lit areas where publicity for the bus that cur­assaults have occurred this past rently goes to and from Campus year. United Limo has View and Turtle Creek four expressed interest in improving times a day during the week. It this service, and increased pub­is rarely used and should be licity will hopefully increase publicized to determine usage. 
-
whether or not people feel it is Healistic. Necessary.
.\'tudent Voice Trustees) stands to benefit from Forums-The forum on gen-increased communication. Safety a good use of money. It could Obtainable. serve as a way to decrease the We'll hook you up. 
page 12 
Alex George 
MONTOYA FISCHER 

r o ahead. Try it. You'll 
Uike it. We say this because we feel that we present the most hope for an exciting and successful year for change-the change that every student seems to be looking for. Throughout this school year we realized that not only do stu­dents want their government to do something that is fun, but they also want action which ad­dresses other key areas. Stu­dents have voiced the need for improvements in not only social aspects of campus life, but also in the areas of academics, safe­ty, and social service. The fol­lowing ideas present reasonable suggestions towards improving life at Notre Dame for the entire student body. These ideas are not intended to be our only listening to a DJ or a band. ones, but merely a starting point We also feel that we have towards kicking off a great year. some ideas to help the academic 
Should we be elected, the fun life of each student. These will start right when we get include Bringing Back the Book back to school. The First An-Fair and making a Mandatory nual Blowout Bash will be sim-Guide which includes all profes­
ilar to AnTostal. We plan to sors, the way it is on other cam­bring in a comedian, a major puses. In addition, we intend to m~sical enter-'The fun will start repeal the DuLac 
tamer, and pay rule to enforce No popular cam-right when we Forced Finals. pus bands like get back to school.' Because some pr?­
t h e fessors have satd RoadApples and others to per-they do not find finals neces­form on both Quads. Adding to sary, let's leave the decision up this will be a carnival-like atmo-to them. sphere. We also suggest Other more serious issues in­Opening Senior Club a couple elude but are not limited to, im­times a month to all students so proving safety and relations be­they can enjoy the dance floor tween Notre Dame students and and mingle with others while off campus life. By installing 
lights and telephones in the dark areas of campus, along with making a map detailing South Bend's "danger zones," our students can feel safer at their home away from home. Also, a "Safe Week" will pro­vide a free self-defense class and lessons on awareness. The Designated Driver program will allow students to pick up other students from weekend social events, while making money dri­ving them back to campus. Also, to help the South Bend community, a Breakfast Fast will take the money you are charged for the breakfast you usually skip to help local areas in need. 
With the right combination of activities geared towards improving our campus social life while also maintaining our responsibility towards achieving our goals, we can make this the best year ever. We're in this for you-all of you. Let's have some fun. Go ahead. Try it. You'll like it. 

Michelle Jenny
MUDRY SZAREK 
people can meet and get to pecially if you do not trust your know each other....even after roommate.. and we, of course, parietals! One of our ideas is to completely trust each other ... ok open a dance club in LaFortune well anyway, we propose that Ballroom several times a semes-Notre Dame have a dating ser­ter--including theme nights vice. SYRs, formals and even such as reggae, 70's disco, random dates could all be
S
tudents of the University of been strained. With the country-line dancing, and arranged simply by calling theNotre Dame, we would like tremendous pool of resources more!!! We want hours to ND Love Connection-a campusto introduce ourselves to you. we have in each other, progress extend beyond . wide dating ser­Our names are Michelle Mudry, can be made. Even though peo­parietals. As a 'student relatiOnS, vice!!! In re-aka MUD, and Jenny Szarek. ple have claimed that all stu­result, you would are key to ourturn, we do
We're both juniors and also dents at Notre Dame are the 
not have to sit in , expect a wed-roommates in Howard Hall. We same and fit a stereotypical twenty-four hour platform. ding invitationdecided to run for Student Body image, we have found this to be 
lounges to be or at the very
president and vice-president false. Even though you might with your friends after pari-least, you could name your firstbecause we want to continue to have to look a little harder for etals. We want to make dating born "Jennifer Mud." 
keep student government open outward differences, the inner more natural for students at We also want to have an all­to all students and to encourage dimensions, the individual com­Notre Dame. It is possible that campus bonfire. Roast some your increased involvement. plexities of the conscience and we can date each other in set-marshmallows, sing someThe majority of our platform soul vary within each of us. Give tings other than SYRs and for-campfire songs ...it'll be great! 
constitutes ways in which we that extra time and effort to mals. On a more serious note, we all can improve student relations at reach beyond the surface. 
No matter how many friends know that crime off campus has Notre Dame. Student relations, therefore, are you have, there usually comes increased recently. The St.
Many students agree that in key to our platform. 
a time when you might not Mary's shuttle goes to Turtletheir experiences on campus, We want to help foster a know who to ask to your dance. Creek and Campus View a cou­student relations at ND have healthy environment in which SYRs can be hectic times, es-pie times a day but not when it is most needed, late at night. We propose that the shuttle in­crease their stops off-campus at midnight and at two o'clock am. The shuttle exists, we believe that it should be used more ef­fectively. 
OK..students of ND, it's almost time when you will have to decide which ticket you want to be in office next year. Will you let two women be presidents, even though there has never been such a winning ballot? We have ambition, energy, creativi­ty, and we work well together. And most importantly, we want the best for you, the student body. Few things are as clear , as black and white...but take the Mud out of your eyes and look at your future at ND ...Think about what you want the next years to bring... Together, the possibili­ties are endless...Give us a chance..You will not regret it! 
,-------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Jonathan Dennis 
PATRICK McCARTHY 
T
wo guys from Mod Quad. FM, On-Air Discussion Sessions, • Our first proposal is an E­
-There's no politically-cor­GLND/SMC Recognition, Gender mail Forum designed to connect rect, demographically-sound Issue Investigation, Ethnic students on-line with student strategy to our partnership -Diversification, Cigarette Ac-government. This method of only an innate confidence which cess, Community Action Pro-direct access to the student gov­exists between us as running gram, Campus-Wide ernment offices will expedite 

mates. Contrary to the some­what traditional male/female, North Quad/South Quad ticket, we both hail from Flanner Hall, where the source of our confi­
• 
dence stems not only from our roles as Co-Presidents, but from our good friendship as well. 
In a community of students mute with frustration over their lack of participation in student government, we aspire to be­come "The Voice of Notre Dame". This new focus will thoroughly represent the ideas and concerns of the students, the TRUE ND community, and convey them to the administra­tion. Confidence in the student body government must be re­
-
newed in order to accomplish such beneficial goals as the E­mail Forum, WVFI Upgrade To "Assassination" Games, Live communication and quickly Bands On The . draw our atten­Quad, Mid-'We aspire to be•tion to the issues s e :r_n e s t ~ r come "Thestudents beli~ve 
Parties, Spnng are most Im-Cook-Outs, and Voice of Notre Dame.'" portant. 
L a r g e -S c a l e Paint-Ball Tournaments. By making our campaign promises realistic and attainable, we will be the catalysts of change work­ing to become "The Voice of ND". 
Our entire platform was de­signed to rediscover the voices of the students. Presently, com­munication between students and members of student gov­ernment is stifled by red tape and bureaucracy at the University of Notre Dame. This defeats the purpose of a student government. 
• 
We will work with the WVFI staff in their efforts to Reach FM Quality Standards. This transformation will improve communication, both to and from students, and also enhance Notre Dame unity. 

•In 
order to further under­stand the sentiment of the con­cerned public, we will hold weekly On-air Discussions on WVFI. This will provide stu­dents and the student govern­ment with the means for effec­tive two-way communication, to be witnessed by the entire Notre Dame population. 


• 
Along these lines, we believe that the needs of Minority Groups on campus are present­ly unanswered. We believe that the Gay and Lesbian community needs to be given a place to congregate, gender issues both in and out of the classroom need to be seriously addressed, ethnic minorities need to be represented and supported in their efforts to diversify the Notre Dame community, and smokers need to have conve­nient access to cigarettes on campus. 

• 
We also strongly believe that it is the duty of the student gov­ernment to improve the Community around us. If we establish closer relationships with the residents of South Bend, through organized and 


well-promoted service projects, we will do our part to assist the underprivileged and we will re­duce the security dangers that we currently face . 
As Co-Presidents of Flanner Hall this year, we have dealt regularly with the administra­tion. We understand the day­to-day political actions required to run the student government of Notre Dame. We have tremendous confidence in each other and hope that you will have the same confidence in us. We appreciate all of the support that we have received and ask for your continuing support throughout our campaign. Let's work together to strengthen communication, to unify the stu­dent body, and to VOICE our concerns to the administration. 

ACCE,NT -
U-..I~ 
•m~ 





page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 8, 1995 
• Cm.1EGE BASKHBAU. 
Carolina's reign as No. I cut short by Terrapins 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
While everyone was looking inside to see how sophomore center Joe Smith would lead No. 8 Maryland over top­ranked North Carolina, it was the Terrapins' backcourt which made the difference in the 86­73 victory Tuesday night. 
Maryland (18-4, 8-2 Atlantic Coast Conference) registered its first win over a No. 1 team since beating North Carolina 77-72 on Feb. 20, 1986, the Tar Heels' first loss in the Smith Center. 
And though Smith did have a lot to do with the latest victory, it was guards Duane Simpkins and Johnny Rhodes who came up big, each finishing with 21 points. 
The Tar Heels (18-2, 8-2), who had a nine-game winning streak snapped, had just taken over the No. 1 spot Monday from Massachusetts. 
Rhodes' 3-pointer with 15:59 to play started a 7-0 run that gave the Terrapins' their first 10-point lead, 54-44. Every time the Tar Heels would get close, Simpkins or Rhodes would come up with the big play to stave off one of North Carolina's famed rallies. 
Smith finished with 14'points and 16 rebounds in his matchup with fellow sopho­more Rasheed Wallace, who 
had  15  points  and eight  
rebounds.  
Purdue 78,  

No. 7 Michigan State 69 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Cuonzo Martin scored six of his game-high 28 points in the final 1:21 Tuesday to lead Purdue to a 78-69 Big Ten vic­tory over No. 7 Michigan State. 
The Spartans, who lead the conference with an 8-2 record remained a half game ahead of the 7-2 Boilermakers. Michigan State is 16-3 overall and Purdue is 16-5. 
Purdue, which led by two points at halftime, outscored Michigan State 10-2 in the last 
2:37 after the Spartans had 
gone ahead 67-66 on a layup by Eric Snow. 

Matt Waddell put the Boilermakers in front with a pair of free throws and after a missed layup by Snow, Martin hit a three-point goal to give Purdue a 71-67 lead. 
Jamie Feick led Michigan State with 16 points and 14 rebounds. Quinton Brooks had 15 points and Snow added 10 and had nine assists. 
No. 16 Villanova 73, Miami 
63 
PHILADELPHIA 
Kerry Kittles scored 25 points and Jason Lawson added 21 as No. 16 Villanova ran away from Miami 73-63 on Tuesday night. 
Kittles, the Big East Conference's No. 2 scorer, scored in double figures for the 20th time in 21 games as the Wildcats (16-5, 9-2 Big East) won their eighth in a row and seventh straight in the confer­ence. 
Miami (9-9, 4-7) couldn't fol­low up on its 67-61 upset of No. 

20 Georgetown Saturday night. Steve Rich and Steven Edwards each had 12 points for the Hurricanes. 
Sixteen turnovers in the first half -eight in the first 11 min­utes -put Miami in a hole in a hurry and played a role in Villanova's 37-25 halftime lead. 
The Hurricanes owned an 11­10 lead with 14:43 left, but Kittles scored nine unanswered points to put Villanova up for good. Kittles scored 15 of the Wildcats' first 17 points. 
Villanova stretched its 12­point halftime lead to 51-31 on Chuck Kornegay's layup with 
14:37 left to play. The Wildcats' biggest lead came on Lawson's jumper that made it 55-34 with 
12:15 to play. 
Rich led the Hurricanes in the first half with six points. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
HEY SOPHOMORES ......... . Looking for that great service pro­ject that makes a huge difference, and is still a lot of fun? Look no further! 
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS SERVICE PROJECT 
Youth Mentoring (serving as role models for under-privileged kids)at the Northeast Neighborhood Center 
FRIDAYS 2:30 • 4:30, or anytime in between. Meet at Main Circle or 161 Alumni Hall. Questions? Call Brian x1058. 
Once upon a time, when a person 
is born, no matter what color of 
mankind you are, a body with a 
mind seeks for the truth of life. A 
way. A chest is opened for you, 
filled with many truths and things 
that pass as truths for you to find, 
pick, choose from, live your life 
with. Be the things you value. Now you may have a brain and still be a fool. Many people choose those things that pass as the truth but are false. Still others find real truths then twist , bend and misuse them, even bury them. 
Sorne, the lazy, don't search or 
dig deep for the truth but find a 
way and use it until they find it is 
not so good, then pick up another 
way, often just as useless. They 
spend years and years , their lives, 
doing this. Very often to the 
detriment of themselves and 
others. Very often ...just a nothing 
life. 
J. California Cooper from In Search of Satisfaction, 1994. Hesburgh Auditorium,Feb.13,8pm 
Sketch Comedy · HA Want to LAUGH at your peers, profs and school? Go ahead. When you're done, come see 
Humor Artists Library Auditorium Fri. Feb 101h Bpm FREEIII 
TREK·A·THON Cushing Auditorium 
Thurs-9/11 Fri + Sat-811030 pm 
Thurs-Star Trek 2-Wrath of Khan 
Fri-Star Trek 4-Voyage Home 
Sat-Star Trek 6· Undiscovered 
Country brought by SUB 
Used Texts Cheapll Check out 
Pandora's Books 233·2342 
ND ave & Howard st 10·6 m-sat 
9-3 sundays 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Found: ***BIKE LOCK KEY*** On 
brand name is "Rhode Gear". 
·Bill X1862 I Lost a role of f10 film on Friday Feb.3, 95 probably in the area around or inside 
LaFortune/J.A.C.C. call Wally at 4-3675 
LOST • gold rectangular gold charms that says Credit Suisse. Lost early wk. of 1/30. VERY Sentimental. Reward. Call Jennifer 4-1291. 
LOST FOSSIL MAN'S WATCH. BLACK AND GOLD FACE. POSSIBLY BY TURTLE CREEK APT. REWARD. ADAM 4-4332. 
WANTED 
Spring Break! Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days $2791 Includes 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $4291 Spring Break Travel1-800-678-6386 
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots! PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291 WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights $1591 Key West $229! Daytona 
Room with Kitchen From $129! 1­800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Oceanview Room with a Kitchen $1291 Walk to best bars! Includes 
Free Discount Card which will save you $100 on food/drinksl1·800· 678-6386 
RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS, GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE WHILE BUILDING YOUR RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000 (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD· UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER: VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU· DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800· 265·7691 
SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS & STAFF BOYS SPORTS CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY RMIBD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: Archery, Baseball, Basketball, Drums, Football, Golf, Guitar, Ice Hockey, Lacrosse, Lifeguard, Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Pool, Rocketry, Rollerblading, Ropes, Sailing, Scuba, Secretary, Soccer, Tennis, Track, Video, Waterski, Windsurfing, Weights, Wood, Yearbook. Call or write: Camp Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd., Suite 406E, Boca Raton, FL 33431, (800)494-6238 Recruiter will be on campus DATE: 3/6 TIME: 10:00am­4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room • Lafortune. STOP BY-No appoint­ment needed. 
Babysitter wanted • occasional evening or weekend times, for 3& 1/2 and 1 year old, must have own car and be year round resi­dent, Judith 287-0260 
TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER BOYS CAMP-NORTHEAST-LOOKING FOR STAFF WITH GOOD TENNIS BACKGROUND WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO PLAY TENNIS. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 2255 GLADES RD., SUITE 406E, BOCA RATON, FL 33431 800-494­6238. RECRUITER WILL BE ON CAMPUS 3/6-DOOLEY ROOM· LAFORTUNE 
Painters, Foremen, and Managers­Call College Pro Painters at 1 (800) 346-4649. 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS 232-2595 
1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272· 6551 
ROOM FOR.RENT. FEB.1-MAY31, 1995. MATURE STUDENT. QUIET NEIGHBORHOOD. 255·9005 
FOR SALE 
$250 voucher for travel on America West Airlines. Being sold FOR ONLY $200. Good until 11/27/95. Call Mike@ 273-6077. 
COMPUTER: Mac Classic II, excel­lent condition, 4mb RAM, 80mg HD, system 7. Includes Microsoft Word 5.1, MacBible (NRSV), ClarisWorks. $1000/bo. 631-4533/evening 273­6058. 
One rdtp. ticket to Ft. Lauderdale. 
Leaving 3/11, ret. 3/18. Must sell. 
$250 or best offer. Call X3704. 
'84 RENULTE ENCORE, 69,000 MILES, 5-SPEED. $450. 631-6521. 
OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call (616)946.0700. 
WALK TO NDI 3 bdrm, 1 bath ranch. New carpet­ing, paint & furnace. Family room plus rec room with bar. $56,000. OPEN SAT., 2118 FROM 2·4 PM. Barb McHugh Coldwell Banker 277-8000, 235-3240. 
MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale. Complete system only $499. Call Chris at 800-289-5685. 
TICKETS 
$NEED 2 PETTY TIX BRIAN @x1817 $$$ 
Marquette GAs needed Contact Bryon -1 042 
Please Help! I Need 2 Kentucky GA's. Kory X1644 
1 Kentucky stud. tix for sale 271-1774 
NEED KENTUCKY TIX (GA'S PREFFERED) CALL DAN M. AT 234-6843. 
FREE$BEER$FREE$BEER$FREE 
Now that I've got your attention: : I NEED ONE KENTUCKY GA CALL MATT at x2153. BEER$FREE$BEER$FREE$BEER 
NEED 2 TOM PETTY TIX WILL PAY.TOP $$ BEN X2301 
WANTED : 6 Tickets to Tom Petty DESPERATEIIIII Please Call Mary Jane@ 271-0224 
Need 4 tix (ga or stud) for ND-UK game call Lee x1216 
Desperate for 2 Duquesne stud.tix. Will pay$$. Mike, x1461 
HELP!!!I I NEED UK TIX·STD OR GA. 233-5130-ASK FOR ANYONE EXCEPT FOR GARY GROUPER. 
PERSONAL 
ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BLUE THE OBSERVER HAS A SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU 
VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching and now is the time to place a classified ad for your valen­tine. All Valentine's Day ads will appear in a SPECIAL Valentine's classified section of The Observer on Tuesday, February 14. 
You may place your classified Monday through Friday from Bam to 3pm. We are located on ttle third floor of Lafortune. Place your ad now and beat the rush! 
ADOPTION-A LOVING CHOICE. We're blessed with financial securi­ty and a Dalmatian! Mid-Western couple, stay-at-home mom. Allowable expenses paid. 800·440· 6024 Tracy & Doug 
LOVE IS IN THE AIR. ... Come to see THE DATING GAME II! 
sponsored by SUB, Wed, Feb 8 at8:00 p.m. @ Lafortune Ballroom Funnier than your vintage 80's Dating Gamel! BE THERE!! 
CASINO NIGHT IS BACK! Friday, Feb. 10, 1995 Get to know a Knott Angel! 
This year you need to get on The List. •••••••••••••*** **** * *** ••••••••••••• 
...The Group that Dare Not Speak its name will be meeting at 7:30pm in Lafortune Thursday night. Please come if you are queer, happy,lov­ing, caring, GAY, smiling, STRAIGHT, clam, angry, and most 
of all SUPPORTIVE! ... 
JUNIORS: Come to Senior Bar on Thursday from 5·7PM for a class dinner catered by DON PABLO'S 
$5.00 per person. 
Top 10 Quotes from the 
Miami Gymnastics Meet 10.Damien's in a tree! 9.The night's still young ladies! B.Where did Jim go? He's right here, huh? 
7.She's all that and a stalk of cel­ery. 6.Kelly erased my mind. 5.Am I cool on pump 1? 4.That's why I'm against democra­cy! 3.Sometimes I get so fired up and excited that I lose control of my 
body. 
2.Get the log out of my foot. 1.Give this to my team. It's really· important. 
SUNSHINE WINE SUNSHINE WINE SUNSHINE WINE 
Live this Thursday, Feb. 9 at CLUB 23. Ye-haw!!l 
P.S. Special guests 
THE JAGERMEISTER GIRLS no foolin' 
SUNSHINE WINE SUNSHINE WINE 
PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW 
P.W Carnation Sale 
Buy a flower for that special some­one. 
Red-I love you Pink· You're snazzy Yellow-Friendship White-I want to get to know you ... Green-??? 
Feb. 6-Feb. 10 at Lunch and Dinner at NOH and SOH. 
PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW 
SPRING BREAK MARCO ISLAND, FL. BEACH FRONT 2 BEDROOM CONDO, CABLE, POOL, JACUZZI. FRONT BALCONY OVERLOOKS WHITE SANDY BEACH. OWNER DIS­COUNT. 212-474-1414 
Desperately seeking ride to Padre for Spring Break. Will split gas and tolls in exchange. Call Bridget at x2702. 
Need 4 tix (ga or stud) for ND-UK game call Lee x1216 
ATTN: ACTORS/ACTRESSES Student in directing class needs you for periodic in-class and out-of­class projects this semester. If you have MWF from 1:15-2:05 free (and some additional time) and are inter· ested, call Mike at 4-3597 and leave your name and number. All help will be appreciated. Thanks. 
The Love Goddess answers all. Get your questions into Accent by sometime Sunday in time for our Valentine's Day Edition. 
DESPERATELY NEEDED: 
Ride to Pittsburgh on March 3rd for weekend. Please help. 
Call Laurie at x4096 -Thank You! 
Volunteer to be a dealer at Knott's Casino Night this Friday ... for an hour of your time you get in without a ticket. 
Call Theresa at X4708 
Hey all you YO-Cream goddesses, Bracci needs stories. 
Late Night Olympics ·The jugger­naut known as Grace/PE was unstoppable on the kickball court. We rock. 
Murph's Boston Bash. What really needs to be said? I got the next one 
• BC/ND football '96. 

Wednesday, February 8, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
•NBA 
Rockets' 'Mad Max' silent about altercation w-ith fan 
By BOB BAUM Houston Rockets guard Associated Press Vernon Maxwell left Portland with his teammates Tuesday as POHTLAND. Ore. NBA officials weighed what 
penalty he would face for allegedly punching a fan. 
"You know I'm not going to talk about it," Maxwell said. 
Witnesses said Maxwell charged up a dozen rows into the Memorial Coliseum crowd during Monday night's 120-82 loss to the Portland Trail Blazers and punched 35-year­old Steve George in the jaw. 
George and his attorney said they plan to press charges and are considering a lawsuit. 
A police report filed by George at 1:36 a.m. Tuesday was forwarded to the Multnomah County district attorney's office. 
Maxwell likely would face a misdemeanor charge of fourth­degree assault if George signs a complaint, Portland police spokesman C.W. Jensen said. 
George's attorney, Richard Maizels, said his client would sign the complaint but did not know when. Maizels said there's a good chance any civil lawsuit could be avoided by an out-of-court settlement. 
George, who is deaf in his right ear, was. examined at a hospital emergency room late Monday night to make sure his other ear was not damaged in the incident. So far, there was no indication of any serious in­jury, Maizels said. 
A freelance television cam­eraman captured the alterca­tion on video and sent the tape to the NBA's office in New York. Rod Thorn, the NBA's vice president for operations, said no action would be taken before Wednesday. 
Thorn said a player has never gone into the crowd to assault a fan in his 10 years with the league. In March 1991, Charles Barkley was fined $10,000 and suspended for a game for spit­ting on fans. His target was a heckler, but he hit an 8-year­old girl instead. 
Maxwell has a history of trou­ble. Since 1993, he's been 
BEAOONOR AT  arrested twice for altercations in night clubs. Last year, he paid a $15,000 fine for illegally carrying a gun in his car.  
THE FIRST ANNUAL ENGINEERING BLOOD OONATION DAY  Cameraman Carl Wikman said his tape clearly shows Maxwell going into the crowd  
and striking George. The incident occurred during a timeout with 3:33 left in the  
WHO: NOTRE DAME STUDENTS, STAFF AND FACULTY  third period and Portland lead­ing the Rockets 79-52. The sec­ 
WHAT: ANNUAL ENGINEERING BLOOD DONATION DA  tion of fans beneath the back­board next to the Houston  
WHEN: 9:00AM TO 4:30PM, WED., FEBRUARY 15, 1995  bench had been riding Maxwell all night, and the temperamen­ 
WHERE: STUDENT CENTER, ROOM 217, CUSHING HALL  tal guard had returned the taunts with obscenities,  
HOW: • MAKEAN APlDINllv1ENfKRAITNVENIENTTIME  Wikman said. "He's known as a hothead,  
o AERC6PACE&.MR:l-lANIO\LINGNGaHCE  and he gets it everywhere he  
o CALL 631-5430  goes," George said. "He blew a  
•ORJUST SHOW UP ATTHE STUDENT CENTER  gasket. They were down by 30. He wasn't happy. He was hav­ing a bad night and he lost it."  
SPONSORED BY: PITAU SIGMA  
~OBSERVER  
is now accepting applications for the 1995-96 General Board Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to john Lucas by Wednesday, Feb. 15 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4541. NEWS EDITOR ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. is responsible for generating advertising revenue. VIEWPOINT EDITOR AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout QuarkX.press, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketingeditors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. SPORTS EDITOR PRODUCTION MANAGERApplicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas of QuarkXpress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. Theand special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and worksresponsible for the content of the sports section each day. closely with department staff on layout and design. ACCENT EDITOR SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge ofEditor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the responsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system.PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertis­closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning pho­ers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with tographs. Ad Design manager and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self-motivation. SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. CONTROLLER The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties.  


Wednesday, February 8, 1995 
Honors 
continued from page 20
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Rookie Glenn Robinson scored 20 points and hit a key jumper as the Milwaukee Bucks overcame a slow start to beat the New York Knicks 95-87 Tuesday night. 
Eric Murdock had 22 points and Yin Baker had 22 points and 13 rebounds for Milwaukee, who had lost five of its last six games. The Bucks beat the Knicks for the first time in eight games. 
Patrick Ewing led New York, 
which dropped its second 
straight, with 23 points and 17 
rebounds. John Starks also had 
23, including five 3-pointers in 
the first quarter. 
After trailing by 14 points in 
the first half, Milwaukee took a 
one-point lead into the fourth 
quarter. But the Bucks couldn't 
shake the Knicks, and the game 
was tied six times before 
Robinson put Milwaukee ahead 
90-87 on a 19-footer with 1:03 
to go. 
Baker blocked Starks' 
jump shot, and Milwaukee 
retained possession until the Knicks were forced to foul with 24.9 seconds left. Murdock sank all four of his free throws down the stretch. 
After a hot-shooting sec­ond quarter, both teams bogged down in the third. New York managed only 12 points and missed 8 of 13 field goal attempts. Milwaukee was even worse, shooting 6-for-22. 
But the Bucks still man­aged to rally, taking their first lead of the game on a 3-pointer by Todd Day with 
2:32 to go in the period. They were up 69-68 going into the final quarter. 
After shooting 53 percent in that period, New York built its lead to 14, 35-21, early in the second quar­ter. But the Bucks starting hitting from the perimeter and outscored the Knicks 22-11, cutting their deficit to 48-46 on a 3-pointer by Baker with 2:43 left in the half. 

1 
~ 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND PANAMA CITY BEACH DAYTONA BEACH 

STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 
• PER PERSON DEPENDING DN DESTINATION I BREAK DATES I UHGTH Df STAY. 

the MCC Newcomer of the yearTimberwolves 109, and for the 30th time in 38 through the kind of ending he'll and a member of the MCC all­Warriors 100 games since their last meeting be trying to live down. 
tournament team. Harris
with Minnesota -and the Nov. Workman sank four free 
played in all 37 matches for the 
17 trade that sent Chris throws in the final 11.8 seconds 
MINNEAPOLIS Irish, and finished the year tied 
Webber to Washington. of overtime Tuesday night to
Isaiah Rider scored a career­with Peters for the team lead in 
high 41 points and Minnesota Chris Gatling matched a sea­give the Indiana Pacers a 95-92 kills with 432. 
used the highest-scoring first son-high with 25 points for victory and snap the Charlotte 
quarter in franchise history Golden State, and Latrell Hornets' six-game winning Her overwhelming power Sprewell had 23. streak. It was a fitting touch for and consistency in serving pro­
Tuesday night for a 109-100 Pathetic in their most recent Workman, who returned to his duced a team-high 75 service
victory over injury ravaged losing streak, the Wolves had hometown. aces, which placed her in a tie
Golden State. 
for 13th nationally. She alsoRider, whose previous career­lost the previous five by an "My whole day was terrible, 
set an Irish single-match
average of 25 points. But play­awful," Workman said, obvi­
best of 35 points also came this record with eight service aces
ing against the NBA's worst ously referring to the first 20
season against his hometown in a 3-1 victory over Texas
defensive team, Rider scored 12 minutes of the 21 he played. "It
Warriors, tied a team record back in October. 
points as Minnesota took a 40-was just one of those days; you
with six 3-pointers as the "Angie had a great start to
27 lead after the first quarter, just wished it would go away.
Wolves snapped a five-game what I'm sure will be an excep­
breaking the team record of 39 But then I got a second chance
losing streak. tional career," said Brown. "I points in the opening period. and I hit them." anticipate that we will continue 
Rider made 15 of 23 shots for the third 40-point game in Minnesota led 88-86 heading Following a timeout, Dell to see great things from her into the final period, and Rider Curry took a long inbounds throughout the next three
Minnesota's five-year history. He also had nine assists and and Christian Laettner scored pass and got off a jumper from years." all of Minnesota's points during just inside the 3-point line with
eight rebounds. 
The Irish volleyball team fin­
a 10-4 run that helped seal the 2.7 seconds to play. Curry, a 90
Without injured starters Chris ished the season 33-4, losing to
victory. percent free-throw shooter,
Mullin and Rony Seikaly and Penn State for the third time in 
key backup Ricky Pierce, was fouled and hit the first NCAA tournament play. The
Pacers 95, Hornets 92 OT shot, but his second one car­
Golden State overcame a huge 
Irish were undefeated in the
omed off the front of the rim. 
first-half deficit for the second conference, winning the MCC"It seems like I always miss
game in a row. CHARLOTTE, N.C. tournament for the fourth con­
the second one, too," a dis­
But after going cold in the Haywoode Workman had the secutive year. The team fin­tressed Curry said as reporters
fourth quarter, they also lost type of finish he's always ished the year ranked 12th bycrowded around his locker. the AVCA.
for the second straight game dreamed of. Dell Curry went 
SENIOR ND PREMED SruoENTS 
• 
ACCEPTED TO MEDICAL SCHOOL AND ABLE TO DEFER ADMISSION? 

• 
INTERESTED IN EXPLORING PRIMARY CARE MEDICINE AND HEALTH MINISTRY? 

• 
DESIRE TO SERVE A MEDICALLY INDIGENT COMMUNITY IN A CHRISTIAN SETIING? 


co::~;er: THE THOMAS DOOLEY SERVICE AWARD PROJECT 
.91. year-{ong service project at St. Josephs J{ea{th Center in South r.Bena 
sponsorea 6y the 9{'1J .9l.{umni ofSt. Joseph o/a{{ey. 
• Considerable stipend to cover Room, Board, and Health Insurance. 
Applications now available at The Center for Social Concerns! 
• Yorjuri£er/nformahon, please foohfor an Observer arl/cfe /n i£ene:xlfow days. 
Volker Blankenstein, Mary Ann Roemer,
or 
1994/95 Dooley Volunteer@ 289-7662 Center for Social Concerns @ 631-5293 
Applications are now being accepted for 
ltanaaer Posii:ions 
at 
Alun~ni Senior Club 
for the 1995-96 academic school year. \3 lV.t . You may pick up applications at the 
~ ~ 
~CLUll;Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. ~]\rtO Deadline March Ist 1995 
---------------------------~--------~-----------~------­Wednesday, February 8, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•NBA 
Panthers searching for impact players 
By TOM FOREMAN JR.. 
Associated Press 
HOCK HILL, S.C. 
He might be the one to bat away the last-second pass in the end zone, or maybe he's the power back who makes that drive-saving run in the fourth quarter. Whoever he is, that's who the Carolina Panthers want. 
"When you look at the good football teams, they have dif­ference makers on their team, impact players, guys who can make a play and make a differ­ence in the football game," Carolina first-year coach Dom Capers told reporters Tuesday at a news conference just south of Charlotte. 
"And they're surrounded by a good cast. So I think that we have to look in terms of who we can lind that we feel could be a difference maker on this team," Capers said. "These are guys who can change the course of a ball game with one play." 
The Panthers and the Jacksonville Jaguars, the two NFL expansion franchises who open play in less than six months, will join the other 28 teams in Indianapolis for four days starting Thursday to eval­uate college talent and decide who they'll make the top pick in the draft. 
It's assured that the Panthers will keep their eyes on people like Penn State quarterback Kerry Collins and his backfield teammate, running back Ki­Jana Carter for April's college draft. Maybe Alcorn State's Steve McNair is their man, or because of Capers' leanings as an ex-defensive coordinator, Miami's Warren Sapp is the choice. 
"There's a lot of things that go into it," Capers said of Carolina's first pick, the No. 1 overall in the draft. "You have to evaluate how this guy will impact your football team. For us and the Carolina Panthers, not necessarily just next year but looking three, four, five years down the road." 
In addition to the first pick, the Panthers have additional picks in each round, except those lost from the second and sixth rounds when the team was penalized by the NFL for jumping the gun in negotiating with Capers. 
On top of that, Carolina will have to figure out how it will intertwine the young talent it expects to draft with the veter­ans it will select in next week's veteran allocation draft. 
Sapp's name has always been a focal point for observers, and the Panthers have talked to him and seen him play. McNair says he's been told by the Panthers that he's among the top five players they're consid­ering when the draft occurs. 
Of course, teams will always say they'll take the best player available. What determines best? 
All-Star Kemp pride of Sonics 
By JIM COUR 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
When Shawn Kemp was dr<\fted by the Seattle SuperSonics six years ago with­out ever playing college basket­ball, even his own expectations were modest. 
He knew he could play. But without a college resume to base his ability on, he wasn't sure how well he'd do in the NBA. 
"I always tell people that I didn't come into the NBA to be a big star, I didn't come into the NBA to make the All-Star team, I came into the NBA to fulfill a dream of playing pro­fessional basketball," Kemp said. "Well, a lot of good things have happened to me and I've taken advantage of them." 
On Sunday in Phoenix, the Sonics' 6-foot-10 power for­ward will play in his third straight All-Star game, the sec­ond in a row as a starter. 
Kemp, in his sixth season, has become one of the league's most exciting players. He brings crowds to their feet with thunderous dunks and intimi­dating blocks. 
Sonics coach George Karl talked to Kemp this week after the team returned from a 4-0 Eastern road trip that included a victory over Orlando. 
"I told him, 'Shawn, I think your challenges are champi­onship and Hall of Fame,"' Karl said. "Think about that. Those are unbelievable. There are very few people in life who ever get in a position where the goals in their careers are Hall of Fame and championship." 
After winning a league-best 63 regular-season games last season, the Sonics flopped in the playoffs. With Dikembe Mutombo stifling Kemp inside, Denver beat the Sonics in the first round. 
On draft day, the Sonics almost traded Kemp to Chicago for Scottie Pippen, but owner Barry Ackerley decided to keep Kemp. Ackerley then signed him to a contract extension with a $20 million balloon pay­ment. 
Initially unhappy with Karl for trying to trade him, Kemp appears to have forgiven his coach for the near-trade. 
With All-Star teammates Gary Payton and Detlef Schrempf also playing big roles, Kemp has helped the Sonics to a 32-11 start, including an 18-3 record at home. The Sonics played San Antonio in the Tacoma Dome on Tuesday night. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
CROSS-COUNTRY SKI RENTALS -Rentals are avail­able to students, faculty, and staff. Rent skis, boots, and poles. No reservations neces­sary. Check out 4:30-5:30 on Thursday and Friday and 11:00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. Check in 4:30-5:30 on Friday and Sunday and 11:00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. For info call the Golf Shop at 1-6425 or HecSports at 1-6100. 
BENGAL BOUTS -Training occurs daily at 4:00 PM at the 
Spring Break Setninars March 12-18, 1995 Experientiall Service Learning Center for Social Concerns  
APPALACHIASENIT.NAR Service Learning at one of ten sites in the Appalachian region One credit Theology ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SEMINAR Examine recycling, solid waste centers directly Consider ethical aspects of environmental concerns One credit, Chicago-based seminar  
Applications Available Now at the CSC Application Deadline Extended for the Appalachia and Environmental Issues Seminars until Thursday,February 9, 1995, 10:00 p.m.  

JACC. Anyone interested should please contact Jeff Goddard at 287-8041. 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL ­Anyone interested in being a 1995 Bookstore commissioner can pick up an application in the Student Government office in LaFortune until today at 4 PM. Questions? Call Greg at 4­1560. 
ND RUGBY CLUB -Spring practice continues on Wednesday, February 8th at 
9:30. Questions? Call Brendan at 234-8276 or Mike at 4-2289. 
Kemp was averaging a career-best 18.5 points, was second in scoring to Payton's 
20.1 points and led the Sonics in rebounds (10.2) and blocked shots (1.6). He was shooting 54 percent (282 for 525) from the floor. 
Kemp thinks he's shooting his jump shot better than ever, but he's not getting as many oppor­tunities this season. 
"I've concentrated a little bit more on the inside game be­cause that's where they need me, to rebound and to guard some big guys down low," he said. "The low post is pretty much mine. The jump shots are for (Perkins) and Detlef and the rest of the guys." 
The Sonics have a lot of tal­ent, but the player they count on most is Kemp. A member of Dream Team II last summer, Kemp has led the Sonics in scoring a dozen times this sea­son and has in rebounding in 30 games. 
He scored a career-high 42 points in a double-overtime vic­tory over the Los Angeles Clippers on the road Dec. 10. He had a season-best 19 rebounds in Sacramento on Dec. 8. 
It's easy to expect too much from Kemp, Karl admitted. 
CLIMBING WALL SCHEDULE -The climbing wall is open for use. The hours will be Sundays 2:00-5:00 and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00-10:00. The climbing wall is located in the Rockne Memorial and any­one interested in using it must attend an orientation session. For more info call RecSports at 1-6100. 
SPORTS TALK-This Sunday at 7:30 pm on WVFI 640 AM: Irish Men's Basketball co-cap­tain Lamarr Justice. Call in with your questions and com­ments at 1-6400. 
MEN'S TENNlS vs. Ohio State Saturday, February 11 at 
3:15 p.m. at Eck Pavilion. VS. North Carolina Sunday, February 12 at 1 p.m. at Eck Pavilion. 


14 INCH 2 ITEM PIZZA -$7 INCLUDES TAX 2 -121NCH 6 ITEM PIZZAS-$10 INCLUDES TAX 
273-3890 
II 
sT I L l. T H E l) E sT ,, 
-~---~------~---­
--~-----~----~--------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 8, 1995 
• RECRUITING 

Soccer and Volleyball 
Irish even record with win announce class of '99 
Young team sweeps top 
By MIKE NORBUT The women's soccer team 
five singles matches to 
Associate Sports Editor does not need a bumper crop of players this year, consider­In the wake of the Notre ing they are only losing 
best Michigan State 
Dame football team's haul of starters Tiffany Thompson 
Observer Staff Report 
high school recruits last and Jodi Hartwig to gradua­Wednesday, the Irish fall tion. They are hoping to sign, The No. 15 Notre Dame men's tennis teamOlympic teams will have their however, four top players, evened its record in the young season at 1-1 yes­own signing day today, with three of whom are from the 
terday with a convincing 6-1 victory over
.expectations just as high. west coast. 
Michigan State at East Lansing. 
The men's soccer team is Margo Tufts from Seattle, The Irish were propelled to victory by winninghoping to sign five new play­Washington is expected to five of the six singles matches, dropping theers, only one of whom is from sign alongside California's the Midwest. Benjamin Monica Gerardo, who resides 
Spartans to 3-1 on the year. Bocklage, from St. Louis, in Simi Valley and Shannon 
Sophomore Ryan Simme, ranked No. 16 in the Missouri, is the only Irish Boxx, who is from Torrence. 
country by the Intercollegiate Tennis interest that is relatively They will probably be joined 
Association, recorded a solid 6-4, 6-3 victory at close to home. The four oth­by Laura Vanderberg, the 
No. 1 singles against Jayson Bedford. Bedford is ers, Matt Johnson from only product that is close to 
ranked No. 65 in the country. 
Livermore, California, home. Vanderberg is from 
The Irish also received a good effort from No. 
Oakville, Ontario's Matt Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
52 Mike Sprouse, who edged Spartan Dan
Mahoney, Greg Vehlo from The Irish women's volley­
Wallihan 7-5, 6-3 at No. 2 singles. 
Longwood, Florida and ball team is hoping to sign 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling 
Notre Dame victories were also recorded by
Mobile, Alabama's Garick one recruit today, Lindsay 
Junior Michael Sprouse won at No. 2 singles as the
No. 3 John Jay O'Brien, No. 4 Jason Pun, and No.
Short are expected to fill out Treadwell, who hails from 
Irish conquered the Spartans of Michigan State. 
5 Steve Flanigan. 
the Irish card of men's soccer Austin, Texas. With the Joss The doubles point was also taken by the Irish, O'Brien has been especially impressive in the
recruits. of All-American Christy Notre Dame needs a big re­Peters, the Irish have a need 
as O'Brien and Simme teamed for a victory at early going, as his two victories against the cruiting class this year, for a strong middle or outside 
No. 2 while Flanigan and fellow senior Brian Spartans came on the heels of a stellar perfor­considering they are losing hitter. but several scholar­
Harris won at No. 3. mance in the team's first match, a 4-3 set back seven players to graduation, ships will be set aside to offer 
With underclassmen playing, and winning, at at the hands of the Minnesota Golden Gophers. including goalie Bert Bader to next year's senior class, 
the top four singles spots, the issue of Irish in­Notre Dame will return to action Friday at and offensive leader Tim which has already shown 
experience is looking to be less of a factor than 3:15, hosting another Big Ten rival in Ohio State 
Oates. promise. 
might have been expected. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 



Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
Aft_......,.... ..._.... ..-.. .. -­
,... -·-....,...-.,......._,...
_......,..... __
--..-Ciwlol.,..._.,....Chrl..... 
RETREAT 
MARCH 3 -5, 1995
DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: February 6-10 
SIGN UP 
February 10-4:00 p.m.
DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
COST: $25.00 
AFRicAN_ 1ERICAN -HISTOR"' l'illffiH 

The contributions m.ade bv African An. ericans to our national culture and tbat of the wor d can be seen wherever we lool:~. The Notre D~e 
~~e is proud to once again offer ~r; selection ~ boot~s representing these r' contribution . We invite you to in .
join ~1s sharing the e periences and inspirations of e African Amen an people. 

The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME BOOK TORE 
\.on the campus" \ Open Mon~y-Saturday 9a.r(-Sp.m. 
\ 

HOCKEY WEEKEND! HOCKEY WEEKEND! HOCKEY WEEKEND! 


--~---~-----------­
-~-~-----------, 
Wednesday, February 8, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

S't£, T\-1\S SN<JWMM-\ IS IN f>.. Sl'IOW CI\R 1\N\) 1-\E:. St>-'{'S, "Df\RN \\, TI-\E:. EI'\G\N'e. FRoIE. UP.'" I-ll\ l-111. I-ll>-1-lf\ .' 
GET re~ 
DILBERT 

DA.Y THf\E.E. OF TELECO/"'MUTING:  ~ 0  
I  SPEND THE MORNING  .... 0..  
TI1ROWING  MY PEN IN THE  ®  
P\lR.  

r-------------------i~ 
IM \r TWc Cf>..l<.. 15 1'-\f>..\)E Or '5\'\<Jv-\, -n.IE E\'\G\1'\E 't-\0\lll) MELT \r \T Wf\SI'\1 rROIEl-1. t:\"1\.\ER WI\~, IT 
';II()IJl\li'\T 1<.\JN . 


2-(j 
"It can be very dangerous to suppress a hiccup." 
SCOTT ADAMS 
trAinlnln COUrSe will be held at the tonight at 5:00 p.m. No 
~ THE.. AFTERNOON IS 5PE.NT 
l'Atrnh•An_ . Participants should bring ~ IN SILENT APPRECIATION 
course is mandatory for any
u 
tlrhnna a CSC van. The next train· and8. 
the 90's" will be the subject of a r·~~-UP,I~J... Messner in the Hesburgh Library , p.m.tornorrow. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Move back 53 Trojans' sch. (from) 
54--the good 
1 "X" denotes it 
33Make--at (beneficial)
8 Swiss abodes 
(try to pick up) 
55 Tiniest
15 Continental, 
35 Felt the heat 57 Arranged in
e.g. 37 Soviet 
rows and
16 Regular 
columns 11 No---(easy 
cooperative 
59 "The flower of 
39 Demonstrated
decision) 
my heart" in
via charades 
18 Radius, e.g. song
43 Baden-Powell
19 Defeats 60 Office of a 
offshoot org. 
Muslim leader 
20 Brit. legislators 
44 Besmirched 
61 Fit in perfectly
22 Posts 
46 Computer's 
62 Emergency
23 Debtors' notes heart: Abbr. 
indicator 
24 Runs amok 
47 Off-road 26 Bit of Livorno conveyances, lucre for short DOWN 27 It's north of Air. 49 Handed (out) 
1 Female felines 28 Petrarch 50 Suffix with slug 
2 Take on a 
products or song 
freelance job 30 Grow's cry 51 Old hat 
3 Deletion 4 Narrow openingsANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

21 Easy­38 Gulches 48 Clown's prop maintenance 40 Having eyelike 
5 Bowling targets 
50 Water channel 
hairstyles 
spots 
52 Actor Jannings 
Kramden laugh 24 Urged on with 41 Like Albany spurs vis-a-vis New 54 Have--hair 25 Began York City day 28 Cut (off) 42 Coached 56 Dijon donkey 29 Something to 43 Top film of 1989 
58 Te --(cigar getup to 45 Bumped illegally brand) 32 "Hey, you!" 34 Annex 
Get answers to any three clues
36 Wide-ranging, 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
as tastes 5656 (75¢ each minute).
37 In the saddle 
SOUTH 
Meatloaf 
Turkey Noodle 
Casserole Eggplant Parmesan 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers, and editors. Join The Observer. 
Calll--5323. 
·­
-, 

r-----~­
I 
~ I I I 
SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, February 8, 1995 
• MEN'S BASKETBA!..l 
A Must Win 

Duquesne game important for Irish psyche 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
At the start of this season's campaign, followers of Notre Dame basketball probably did not even notice tonight's game against the Dukes of Duquesne on the schedule. 
Sandwiched between more glamorous showdowns with UCLA and Kentucky, this game was probably taken to be just another in the long line of no-name competitions that meant little to the Irish. 
That was then. This is now. 
This is exactly the type of game the Irish must take if they are to secure the post­season berth that they so badly want. 
Possibly more important is the psyche of the Irish. Tonight's contest is the perfect opportunity for Notre Dame to bounce back from Sunday's UCLA debacle. A 37 -point loss can't be good for a team confi­dence. A game against Duquesne can be. 
It may not be that easy though. The Dukes, although sporting a less than sparkling 7-12 record, enter the JACC owning two wins over tradi­tional Atlantic 10 power Tem­ple. 
The biggest reason behind these two victories, and their 
• VOU.EYSAU. 
Peters, Harris earn All-American honors 
other five, is 6-foot-3 sopho­more guard Tom Pipkins. 
Pipkins leads the Dukes in scoring with 18.6 points per game, although he shouts just 37% from the floor. In addi­tion, he hauls in nearly five rebounds every contest. 
Freshman Kevin Price is the other go-to-guy for coach John Carroll. The 6-foot-7 Price is a wiry leaper who averages nearly 12 points and five rebounds per game. 
For the Irish, guard Keith Kurowski is not expected to return, although he is back in limited action. 
"We'll have him work on conditioning, then take it day­by-day," said MacLeod. 



By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
Once again, the Notre Dame volleyball team is receiving na­tional recognition. For the sec­ond year in a row, two Irish players have been given post­season honors by Volleyball magazine. 
Senior co-captain Christy Peters, an outside hitter from Solana Beach, California, was 
r 
named to the AsicsNolleyball magazine third-team All­American, and freshman Angie Harris, an outside hitter from Fort Wayne. Indiana, was named to the All-Freshman team. 
This is the second consecu­tive year that Peters, the Irish all-time leader in kills with 1,683, total attacks with 4,471, and digs with 1,640, has been deemed third-team All­American. 
In addition to that distinction, she was a two-time American Volleyball Coaches Association first-team all-Mideast Region selection, and she was the Midwest Collegiate Conference Player of the year in both her junior and senior seasons. 
"This is a well-deserved honor for Christy to be recog­nized as one of the top 18 vol­leyball players in the country," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown. 
"We were very fortunate to have a player of her caliber in our program." 
Harris, in her first year of collegiate volleyball, was not only named to the All­Freshman team, but was also 
see HONORS I page 16 

of note...
MEN'S TENNIS TRIUMPHS
-
Ryan Simme and Michael Sprouse led the 
Parity in the N CAAs continued as 
Irish to a sweep of the top five singles matches 
Maryland knocked off No. 1 
as Notre Dame topped Michigan State 
North Carolina last night 
see page 18 NDTENNIS 




