I I 1' 1 I I \ 1 I I I\\ I 
''I'' 



Wednesday, August 30, 1995• Vol. XXVII No.8 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Group takes 'social' action 
laity became involved, and "There is a strong inter-rela­there was a very strong feeling tionship between the education that anyone in higher education and study of social justice, the should provide leadership in experience, the reflection upon social issues." the experience and the conse­
According to Bellalta, the Sis­quential commitment to jus­ters of the Holy Cross's motto tice," acaording to Bellalta. has always involved them in so­The course study consists of cial justice issues, but during two mandatory classes and the late seventies, different col­three electives from the various lages around the country were departments including philoso­responding to a growing con­phy and economics. The group cern about social issues. The began offering classes in 1979. Justice Education Program Students take classes and also seeks to fuse the theories be­provide service directly to vari­hind social justice and the ac­ous communities. The program tual practices that lead to social is planning an informal seminar justice. this year so that all members of 
However, what is unique the group can get together to about the Justice Education interrelate their experiences. Program at Saint Mary's is that Bellalta emphasizes that in a it began within the college; it service setting, "there is a was not implemented by any stress on collaboration between administrators. "We always people in different situations. work together as a group that Our students have certain at­comes from within the college," tributes and other people have said Bellalta. different attributes. We strive 
What is also unique about the to get together and solve prob­Justice Education Program as lems. opposed to various ad hoc com­"We work as a group, always mittees at Saint Mary's that as a group striving to improve also deal with social service social justice situations. and social justice issues is that "A lot of the women in the the program emphasizes a program come from rather con­"strong relationship between theory and practice." 
see JUSTICE I page 4 
By CLAIRE HALBRITTER ent backgrounds, contemporary Africa, News Writer women's issues, and some of my own research," she said. 
Enlightening students on contemporary Lynonga "offers a wonderful expansion Africa, world literature, and women's for both the students and faculty," said issues, Dr. Nalova Lynonga will be teach­Dr. Dorothy Feigl, vice-president and ing at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dean of faculty at Saint Mary's. "With Dr. College as a visiting scholar from the Ann Loux teaching, studying, and work­University of Buea in the Republic of ing as a Fulbright Fellow at the Cameroon, West Africa. University of Buea in Cameroon, this 
Lynonga has two classes at Saint exploration opens a world of possibilities Mary's-"lntro to Language and for other exchanges like this one." Literature" and a world literature When asked how she would be teach­course. Her class at Notre Dame is a 300 ing her American students as opposed to level on major African writers and is full. her African students, Lynonga stated, One of her four courses is a seminar "Somewhat the same but not with the designed for faculty titled "Critical Issues same focus." in African Literature and Society." In addition to receiving her Ph.D. in 
"I will be covering lots of things, differ-
see LYNONGA I page 4 
esc welcomes alumnus as new associate director 
By HEATHERCQCKS this community that has given us so News Writer ·· "'' much." The former vice-president of the 
The University of Notre Dame's Eleanor Roosevelt Institute for Cancer Center for Social Concerns welcomed Research will head the CSC administra­home James Palazdino, an alumnus tion, as well as deal with finances and who will serve as their new Associate development issues. In addition, he will Director. become the liaison to the Office of 
Paladino, a 1974 graduate and resi­Campus Ministry. dent of Grace Hall during his years as a "I've always been drawn to this kind student at Notre Dame, became of work, especially since my experl· involved with community service work ences at Notre Dame." says Paladino, a through his rector. certified public accountant. 
Since his return. he has reaffirmed He further noted that the position his earlier impression that "the Center with the esc offered a perfect oppor­for Social Concerns is so much more tunity for him to return to community than just a volunteer service. It's about work. learning and experiencing faith in ac­tion, as well as giving a little bit back to 
see CSC I page 4 
~----------------------------------------------------------~ 
GOP House freshmen prove 'money follows power' 
By JIM DRINKARD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Led by an aggressive fresh­man class, the new Republican­controlled House is eclipsing all records in raising campaign cash and proving the Washing­ton adage that money follows power. 
Overall, House members of both parties raised $43.8 mil­lion through the first six months of this year, the begin­ning of a two-year election cy­cle, according to the Federal Election Commission. 
That represented a 38 per­cent increase over the compa­rable period in 1993, when in­cumbents raised $31.5 million, and was the highest total in the 20 years records have been kept. 
. The increase is attributable to industrious money raising by Republicans, who raked in $27.5 million as they retired debts from last year's campaign and built political bank accounts to defend their major­ity in 1996. That is more than twice what they raised as a mi­nority. 
"Fund raising in general is a lot easier" now that the GOP has taken over, said Dan Mor­gan, who raises money for about 40 House Republicans including Majority Leader Dick Armey of Texas. "People are returning my calls, saying, 'Let me find the money to do that."' 
Comparing raising money for Armey when he was a mid-level leader in the minority with now, when he ranks No. 2 to Speaker Newt Gingrich, Morgan said, "It's like night and day." 
"Among some PAC groups, there's been a sense of panic because they had invested so much in Democrats," said Steven Stockmeyer, a Republi­can who runs an association of business political action com­mittees. "Now they are playing catch-up, unashamedly. That's one reason you're seeing the big numbers." 
Still, the person leading the fund-raising list was a Demo­crat, House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt of Missouri, who amassed $1.2 million in the first half of the year. That fig­ure included a $250,000 trans­fer from another committee. Gingrich was second, collecting nearly $885,000. 
In all, 36 of the top 50 money­raisers were Republicans. Two years ago, when Democrats controlled the House, just 15 of the top 50 came from the GOP. 
It was not veterans, however, but freshman lawmakers who accounted for most of the in­crease. The average GOP fresh­man raised $142,000 in the first six months after being elected, compared with just un­der $78,000 for the average freshman Democrat. Ten first­termers, all Republicans, made the top 50 list. 
In fact, a few first-term Re­publicans who won assignment to powerful committees found they could ask for -and get ­$1,000 per ticket to a PAC fund-raising event. That amount used to be commanded only by committee chairmen and leadership figures. 
"It raised a few eyebrows in the PAC community," Stock­meyer said. "You wonder where this ends." 
Among freshmen asking $1,000 per event were Reps. John Ensign, R-Nev., a member of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, and Daniel Frisa, R-N.Y., a Commerce Committee member. 
Among Ensign's $1,000 givers were the National Restaurant Association, which has pushed for higher tax deductibility of business meals; Boyd Gaming, which like other gambling com­panies wants to avoid higher gambling taxes; and the American Chiropractic Association, which hopes to avoid getting nicked by GOP Medicare cuts. 
Frisa collected similar contri­butions from tobacco compa­nies, which are regulated by his committee; cable television, and cellular, local and long-distance telephone companies, all af­fected by a massive rewrite of telecommunications law the panel produced; and health care, insurance and securities interests, all of which depend on the Commerce Committee. 
"Obviously with a Republican majority you've got a two-fer situation," said Stockmeyer of his business PAC clients. 

·, '. 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Could this be more disturbing? 
I have only experi­enced true terror twice: the frrst time was when I was five and almost skied over the side of a mountain, but, even more horrible than that, just one and a half weeks ago, I walked into the "new" North Dining Margee Husemann hall. I write this article Associate Viewpoint now in hopes that my Editor experience may help others. 

Picture it: South Bend 1995, I had made the five hour journey from home to campus. Having stopped only to quickly refill my gas tank and grab a soda, I was tired and starv­ing. Fortunately enough, however, my arrival came on the same day as the opening of North Dining Hall. I was all ready to fill up on carbos in the Italian Eatery. 
I can't say that I wasn't warned of the hor­ror which was soon to occur. A caring and wise student dining hall guru had told my roommate to be prepared for the new "wel­come to the jungle" motif. Young and fool­hardy, I walked into the dining hall believing that nothing could be that bad. Anything would be an improvement over last year's "eating with the inmates" look, right? 
I was so wrong. After being greeted by the same friendly and charismatic staff, I pro­ceeded to march into the dining room. I was hot prepared for what was in store. 
The walls, once shades of plain white were 
now festooned with heinous flower and rope 
borders which not only clashed with the oh 
so stunning carpeting, but also with each 
other. Huge wreaths predecked the halls 
with shades of purple and blue. I shook 
myself, after that piece o'red and blue scrap 
metal that they had placed outside of O'Shag, 
I was reluctant to believe that the University 
would doubly torture the students. 
Things only got worse. Upon walking into 
the room which so graciously hosts the meal 
of the week, I was immediately shocked. 
Somehow, some wacko had created a decor 
inspired by the outdoors. Pseudo brick cov­
ered in fake ivy coated the walls. Are all of 
the denizens of NDH supposed to believe that 
the university had bricked the room and 
trained all of that ivy up the walls? 
Masses of yet more fake ivy intertwined 
itself in the white trellis lining the ceiling. 
The lights had been dimmed so that I could 
now see even less of the food. I truly 
believed that Ewoks or gypsies were about to 
jump down and start throwing my utensils 
,!lbout in some sick game of keep away. 
Despite my temptation to flee this twisted 
land of fried foods, I pressed on to the 
Pastaria. There "Italians" in lederhosen 
danced across the walls behind the sneeze 
guards, and wall paper I have only seen in 
documentaries about western whore houses 
was plastered over my head. 
I got my food quickly and ran for my seat. 
On the already small landings of the stair­
wells leading up to the balconies, large faux 
tree-like creations have turned the area into 
a single-me only region. Still, I persevered 
and finished my dinner. 
Now, one week later, I have grown a little 
more accustomed to the decor, and my stom­
ach is a bit more accepting of the food. I 
can't claim that I'll ever appreciate the 
changes in the dining hall. I'm actually still 
hoping this is part of the University's modern 
art tour that leaves campus in two years. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Gwendolyn Norgle Tom Snider Mark Huffman Christina Cannon Sports Production Mike Day Belle Bautista 
Joe Villinski Accent Graphics Angie Relver Zoe Marin Lab Tech 
Brandon Candura 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday acept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Forecasters get extra help to track four storms 
MIAMI 
Forecasters had to enlist extra help 
Tuesday to track four storms swirling in the 
open Atlantic in the busiest hurricane sea­
son in more than 60 years. 
The National Hurricane Center sent both 
of its tracking airplanes on storm-chasing 
missions and got help from the National 
Oceanographic and Atmospheric 
Administration and the Air Force, whose 
planes provided close looks at the storms. 
"It comes down to the fact that it's been 
quite a while since we've had this active of 
a season, and there really isn't a lot of expe­
rience to go on," said Mike Hopkins, a fore­
caster at the Miami center. 
The workload doubled Monday, when 
Tropical Storms Karen and Luis developed 
rapidly in the far eastern Atlantic near the 
African coast, joining Hurricanes Iris and 
Humberto, both about a week old. 
Karen and Luis became the 11th and 12th 
storms in the 1995 season, tying a 1933 
record for the number of named storms 
Source: Accu·Weather. Inc. AP/Carl Fox

formed so early. 
Pope meets U.S. woman in Beijing 
VATICAN CITY 
The American leading the Vatican's delegation at the U.N. women's confer­ence said Tuesday she will work to build a consensus at the gathering, where the U.S. position is expected to clash with the pontiff's. Vatican dele­gates were due to depart Wednesday for China to attend the Sept. 4-15 U.N. World Conference on Women. On 

Tuesday, Pope John Paul II shook hands and chatted with delegation head Mary Ann Glendon, a Harvard law professor, and others in the 22-member team, which in­cludes eight Americans. "It's so important to have a good success at the conference," John Paul told them. For weeks, John Paul has been making clear that the Vatican will aggressively wage its campaign against abortion, forced sterilization, contraceptive use and other women's issues during the Beijing forum. 
Man arrested for camera foulplay 
SANTA FE, N.M. 
A lawyer in town to lecture on sexual harassment said a man sneaked up while she was shopping, pointed an instant camera up her skirt and took a picture. When the same "creep" did it to her again about 10 minutes later Friday, three to five young men chased him down and pinned him in the parking lot, she said, and the police were called. ''I'd say it's slightly more than ironic to be there discussing sexual harassment and the work­place and to have this happen," said 43-year-old Diana Scott of Los Angeles. Richard Marquez, 38, was arrested on charges of creating a public nuisance and disorderly conduct. Scott -who said she has "very good legs" and was wearing a very short skirt -was browsing in a shop when she heard a whirring click. She said she turned and realized a man had taken a picture up her skirt. She said the man ran out, but when she heard the click again, she got angry. "It was stupid, but here we were running through the store," she said. "I was yelling, 'Stop that guy!"' Police Capt. Ray Rael said officers found photographs on the man, and Scott identified her­self as one of several subjects in the photos. Rael said the man was photographing women's underwear. "I went up_ an.~ P?inted to him and said, 'That's my boy,"' Scott said. It JUSt shows you have to do more than just talk about issues; you have to be pro-active." 
•INDIANA WEATHER 
Wednesday, Aug. 30 Accu· Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather<t forecast for noon, Wednesday, Aug. 30. 
FRONTS: 
.............. ..a...a.. .............. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
PfflaU,.. 
H L 
HIGH LOW 
......_,_ 
Atlanta  91  
Ba~imore  89  
Boston  81  
Chicago  86  
Columbus  90  

Spacecraft flies through dust storm 
LOS ANGELES 
The_ unmanned Galileo spacecraft heading for Jupiter is plowmg through a dust storm, the heaviest it has encountered on its interplanetary voyage. Scientists aren't sure whether the electrically charged dust comes from a volcano on Jupiter's moon Io, from particle rings that circle the giant planet or from the Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9, which crashed into Jupiter's cloudy atmosphere last year."Finding a source of dust like this coming out of Jupiter, with Jupiter acting like a big elec­tromagnetic accelerator spewing dust into the solar sys­tem, is a completely unanticipated discovery," Torrence Johnson, Galileo project scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, said Tuesday. Instruments are detecting only about 20,000 tiny parti­cles per day, said Eberhard Grun of Germany's Max Pl_anck In~titute for Nuclear Physics. But that compares With a typical rate of only about one particle every three days on the voyage. 
Doctors warn about antacids 
CHICAGO 
Swilling antacid or gobbling tablets for your upset stomach could cost you your life. Fourteen deaths, 31 hospitalizations and four cases of disability linked to magnesium poisoning have been reported since 1968, researchers from the Food and Drug Administration reported in the August issue of the American Medical Association's Archives of Family Medicine. "Maalox and Mylanta -people just drink them like water," said Dr. Man C. Fung, lead author of the report. "They don't even think about it." Consumers and doctors often underesti­mate the danger and may not recognize the symptoms of magnesium poisoning from overuse of antacids and other medications, wrote Fung and Drs. Michael Weintraub and Debra L. Bowen. Symptoms can include clumsiness, weakness, paralysis, drowsiness, confusion and coma. Magnesium is an important nutrient in foods and in drinking water. It is common in over-the-counter antacids, laxatives and pain relievers. Many antacids contain lower but still significant amounts of magnesium, including, in many cases, Maalox, Mylanta, Gaviscon, Di­Gel, Gelusil and Rolaids, the researchers said. However, Turns and some types of Maalox and Mylanta contain no !"a~esium. Fung said brand name alone doesn't always mdicate whether a product contains magnesium; con­sumers should look at the list of ingredients on the label. 
~ 
63&Sirnl 0~§~ L.iU 
SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
69 Dallas 97 76 New Or1eens 94 74 64 Denver 92 59 NewYork 85 65 60 Los Angeles 92 68 Philadelphia BB 65 61 Miami 94 80 Phoenix 105 84 68 Minneapolis 79 57 St. Louis 90 75 
-~-;-:---;--;-----· ~--­
Wednesday, August 30, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL 
Council considers judicial b~ards campus-wide 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ News Writer 
The need to instill a judicial board in all dorms was the fo­cus of discussion at the first Hall Presidents Council meeting held yesterday evening at Siegfried Hall. 
Tom Matzzie, judicial board chairman, spoke about student government's desire to instigate judicial boards campus-wide. 
"The judicial board serves as a way to settle dorm issues without having to go through Student Affairs. Every hall should have a board and a rep­resentative from every dorm to discuss matters with others across campus. If you don't have one, we would be more than willing to help you start one, because we would really like to get every dorm going on this," Matzzie said. 
Kristin Beary and Matt Schlatter, co-presidents of HPC, stated their desire to re-start a tradition that has been out of practice since 1977, called the Rockne Award. 
"We are still working on whether we have rights to the name, but in 1977-78 a 4-foot statue was passed around to whichever dorm had the most innovative ideas and events. It would be a monthly competi­tion on which all the presidents would decide which dorm de­served the award," Schlatter said. 
HPC has not yet decided which committees will be active this year, but it disposed the 24-hour space and security committees, deciding that Student Senate's committees of these same names were more effective. Possible ideas for new committees included cam­pus improvement and integra­tion for the new dorms on West Quad. 

"We have lately been making committees for the sole reason that everyone can then serve on one. I think it would be a lot better if we only had the com­mittees that we need," said Gayle Spencer, supervisor of HPC. 
From the budget, HPC had $12,000, so each dorm was al­lotted $500. Matching funds from Student Residences will also be given. 
In the attempt to improve gender relations among Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents, a representative from Saint Mary's will attend each HPC meeting. HPC members were also encouraged to attend Saint Mary's hall meetings. 
"We would like to improve things on a smaller scale rather than trying things campus-wide because that will change things a lot," said Samantha Man­giaforte, representative for Saint Mary's. 
HPC intends to raise money for the Heartwalk, giving char­ity to a Notre Dame volunteer program in Jamaica, and help­ing out with a Madison elemen­tary school project in upcoming weeks. 

''I 
Hickey, president of Saint Mary's. "She's a wonderful
Lynonga
Georgian 
addition." Dr. Lyonga, who was invited
continued from page 1 
to give a lecture at Saint Mary's by the Office of Multicultural
bombed 
African and African American 
Affairs in 1993, said she was
literature from the University
Associated Press 
excited about the up-coming
of Michigan, Lynonga holds a 
school year. When asked if she 
B.A. degree from the University
TBILISI, Georgia would be attending any Notre
of Yaounde and a M.A. from
A bomb blew up_ a car in Dame football games she said,
Sheffield University in England. 
Georgian leader Eduard 
"Definitely, I do want to go and
She has received grants from
Shevardnadze's motorcade 
get into the spirit and experi­
the British Council and the 
as he headed to sign his 
ence Saint Mary's and Notre
DAAD (German Academic
troubled republic's new con­Dame at the fullest." 
Exchange Service). A former
stitution. Shevardnadze was 
Fulbright scholar at SUNY at 
not seriously hurt by what 
Albany, she has published arti­
aides called an assassination 
esc
cles on African drama,
'attempt: Shevardnadze, 
women's literature, and dis­
chairman of the Georgian 
continued from page 1 
tance learning as well as serv­
parliament and a former 
ing as an editor of a number of 
He has found other reasonsSoviet foreign minister, was books and journals. 
for loving the job, not the least
sitting in his car and was 
"This is very exciting for the 
of which is an excuse to visit to struck by flying glass, aides 
college, especially if we can 
his alma mater every day. 
said. Television footage 
turn this exploration into a pat­
"My kids and I can't wait forafterward showed him at a 
tern with other African 
football season to start."
hospital. 
Universities," said Dr. William 
LAST CHANCE! 
FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1996-97 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 31-7:00 p.m. 
131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 

LaFortune Open House Thursday, August 31 7pm-10pm 
• vic/eo, karaoke 
• 
FR.ll Tarot card readings and caricatures 

• the year 8 firet flcouBtic Cafe . -. 

• 
raHTes, givea(J)ays including airline tickets, CD playerB, concert ticketB, anclmuch, much ~ore 


PRIZES DONATED BY: American Airlines 

AA~THONY TRAVEL, INC 
Anthony Travel Huddle 
Americantaf 
Society Bank 
AmericanAirlines•
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Student Activities Sponsored by: Student Business Board Student Union Board and Student Activities Student Union Board 
need and our students' role is to help them get it. 
Justice 
"We're trying to encourage 
the students that this is a per­
continued from page 1 
manent way of being." There are usually betweenservative families, but I don't eight to thirteen students in thethink that they themselves are Justice Education program atconservative. You can't chal­any one time. The program islenge the status quo because it run by several committees thatis unjust and remain the same. 
consist of students and faculty. 
The women are actually quite The faculty largely serves onliberal in this respect," Bellalta 
a volunteer basis. Currently
said. 
George Try from the Philosophy "We try very hard to avoid Department and Joe Incandella
the attitude that we have so from the Religious Studies
much and others have so little. 
Department are serving in thePeople usually know what they Justice Studies Program. 
Would you like to earn ... 
Free Merchandise? 
A Free Trip to Hawaii? 
Extra Spending Money? 
You can earn any one or all-the choice is yours! Just have a Christmas Around the World and Gifts by House of Lloyd party and you will automatically recieve a minimum of $50 in free merchandise. 
Become a sales representative and you'll receive a free merchandise kit valued at $300, earn commissions up to 30%, and have an opportunity to join me on a free, all expenses paid trip to Hawaii this Spring. 
Sound too good to be true? Take it from me, Wendy Wolfe, a demonstrator and recently promoted supervisor who has sold over $45,000 in product, it's not! 
Whether you're interested in the career opportunities available or hosting a Christmas Around the World and Gifts party, you won't find a more generous hostess program or a more fun way to make a profit! 
Call me now at (219) 232-7175 to get all the details! And remember, the sky's the limit ...it's up to you ... 

MOCK CONVENTION COMMISSIONER 
Student Government is looking for someone to organize and plan the 1996 Mock Convention for the Republican Party. If you have super planning skills and are excited about finding guest speakers and politicians for this long­standing Notre Dame tradition, stop by the Student Government Office on the second floor of Lafortune and pick up an application. 
FILL OUT AN APPLICATION 
TODAY! ALLAPPLICATIONS 

mARE DUE BY MONDAYWSEPTEMBER 4, 1995. 
D
IACI10N I!ill~ 
snJDENT GOVERNMEI'IT 

Raise Your Scoresl 
Satisfaction Guaranteed 
.-Small Classes • Dynamic Instructors Practice Testing • Free Extra-Help 
(800) 2-REVIEW ...-~CETON 
.,..,REVIEW
lniD.clllclll~ 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or E.T.S. 
I' 
Wednesday, August 30, 1995 ' The Observer • MIDWEST NEWS page 5 

Postal employee wounds 2 
Mail clerk opens fire in Chicago suburb 
By CLIFF EDWARDS Associated Press 
PALATINE, rii. 
An employee walked into a 
Postal Service mail processing 
center today and opened fire 
on coworkers, wounding two 
people, authorities said. The 
suspect was later arrested at 
his home. 
The gunman shot one person 
in the second-floor sorting 
area of the U.S. Postal Service 
building in this northwestern 
Chicago suburb, walked down­
stairs to the lobby and shot an­
other man, witnesses said. 
One man was in critical con­
dition. All three workers were 
Indiana court cuts credit for prisoners 
AJsociated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
State prisoners have less in­centive to earn high school and college degrees after an Indi­ana Supreme Court ruling cut­ting in half the time credit they can receive, an advocate says. 
The court ruled that the Indi­ana Department of Correction is correctly interpreting a 1993 state law by lopping otT time for academic credit from prisoners' original sentences, rather than from their release dates. 
postal clerks, said plant man­ager Mark Tovey. 
Worker Cynthia Murray said she heard two quick shots, then saw panic break out among the roughly 200 employees at the sprawling glass and steel building. 
"People were just falling all over each other," she said. "I saw people trample over peo­ple and I saw the smoke from the gun." 
Clerk Maude Kelly said she's worked with both the victims and the gunman for about 20 years. All were friends, she said. 
"I can't figure out why he did it. We've been here for a long time. (The gunman) was just a beautiful guy. We would joke and laugh together." 
The suspect was arrested 20 miles away at his home in the 
All Indiana prisoners can cut their original sentences in half if they behave while incarcer­ated. For example, an offender who receives a six-year prison sentence can get out in three years if he follows prison rules. 
Prisoners can also reduce their sentences by up to six more months for passing a general equivalency diploma test, by one year for earning a high school diploma or college associate degree, and by two years for receiving a bachelor's degree. 
suburb of Northlake, police said. He was identified by police as senior postal clerk Dorsey Thomas. 
Police Cmdr. Jim Haider had said earlier that the lobby shooting occurred first.. 
•!..In 
i lllallu (II) m. 4:30, 7:0D, 1:38 

•fl'll 
wu~ 2IPGl 1:15, 3:15, 5:!1, 7:38,1:40 


•A KW II Kill Ar1llrS 2(PC) 1:15, 3:30, 5:35, 7:48, 8:50
•De_.Cll** (PC) 1:30, 3:35, 5:!5, 7:!5, 8:35 •A Wllk IIDI Clllll (PC·13) 1:00,3:20,5:48,7:55, 10:10 ·•~· 00 1:!5, 3:48,5:58,8:00, 10:!0 •IIIII (C) 1:15,3:11.5:15,7:21, 8:!1 •IIISD'III:UII (PG·13) 1:35, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 8:45, ·I-llDe c-.;(PC) 1:20, 3:!5, 5:30, 7:35, 8:55 
Sllll 2001:11,3:25,5:30, 7:li0, 10:00 
$1 7J ALL SEATS ll~fOhE 6 Pl.1
*110 PASSES SUPW:\AVI:f:IS ACCEPTED 
Catch the Action! 
-· 
-
Notre Dame vs. Purdue Saturday, September 9th 
Round trip bus transportation to Ross-Ade Stadium 
Buses leave at 11:00 AM frotn Stepan Center Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info. Desk 
Gan1e tickets available at the LaFortune Info. Desk starting Aug. 23 with student I.D. 
Sponsored by Student Activities 
State panel narrows number of jail sites 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
A state panel today nar­rowed the number of potential sites for a new state prison from 12 to four locations. 
Areas still being considered for the proposed 1,000-bed medium-security prison are Madison County near the Indi­ana Reformatory, Wayne County near Richmond, Miami County near Grissom Air Force Base. and the Jefferson Proving Grounds in Jefferson County. 
Among the sites ruled out for now are areas in LaPorte, Put­nam, Hendricks, Cass, Henry and Jennings counties. 
The Site Selection Committee based its preliminary review of sites on such factors as avail­able acreage, topography, site access, existing utilities and buildings. 
"These four sites stand out when you consider all the crite­ria," said Chris DeBruyn, com­missioner of the Department of Correction. 
More complete evaluations of the four chosen sites will be made over the next several weeks, and serious discussions with economic development of­ficials in those areas will begin. 
Public input will be given full consideration at later meetings before a final site is chosen later this fall, DeBruyn said. 
"I certainly want to make sure in this review that we touch all the bases and listen to the communities," he said. 
The estimated $80 million to build the men's prison would have to be authorized by the General Assembly. 
Please Recycle The Observer 

Oct. 15-20, 1995 
ll1e Appalachia Seminar during ,. II Break presents a unique service-learning opportunity. Students tmvs.. various . · ·in the Appalachia region: Kentucky, West Virginia, Tennes,s~hio and Mississi_P ey work at <Jjari~~tcs wluch examin~olllrcal, soc1al, economic and ct · rces intluenci~g the 
Ap !tla'chft\'tP~~pl;. The sites focus on several issues includin ·eif~hel , ~1g 
, en.vironm·e.ntal wel.l-being, rum!. he.alth care, educat}~n ra 
. ·chi· 'te~~-·al ~a~n~rson-to·J1rson con cts, students expe -culturaf'rl'2Tll'1"c1!1'0f,~tea"all • in to!undcrstan8 and analyze the social forces that influence the lives of the ni6b · people. 
THE SEMINAR: Is a }.credit Theology course 
Involves orientation and follow-up learning classes 
• Presents the opportunity to work, laugh and learn with other volunteers 
INFO SESSION: Thesday, August 29, 1995-7:00-7:30 P.M. (optional) At the Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS: Available at the Center Applications are due: Friday, Sept. 8 by 5:00P.M. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Timbo Hipp. 634-1141 or Alex Andreichuk, 634-3650 Bradley Hannon, 631-9473 Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 

3~coS 
Buy 1 Spaghetti dinner, get 1 free for Notre Dame & Saint Mary's Students 
256-1444 
SPECIALIZING IN ITALIAN CUISINE 
Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest Prepared b;: Francesco and Family An Authentic Taste of Italy Most Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
WE NEED SERVERS! 
Notre Dame's Favorite Italian Restaurant for the past 10 years! 
Banquet Rooms Available 
Hours  1213 Lincolnway West  
Mon-Thu Fri & Sat  4-l0 4-11  Mishawaka  
·Sun  closed  (Francesco was chef at ND for 30 years!)  



page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, August 30, 1995 
Security 'tight' at conference Zaire: Refugees must 
leave by year's end
By KATHY WILHELM 
Associated Press 
HUAIROU, China 
Chinese officials will open the world's largest meeting of women on Wednesday by re­leasing thousands of doves, yet the delegates themselves feel caged by tight security that they fear will get in the way of a successful conference. 
Tempers flared over China's effort to contain the more than 20,000 participants in the Non­Governmental Organizations Forum on Women in Huairou, a rural suburb 90 minutes' drive from downtown Beijing. 
Although China had said free shuttle buses would be avail­able to take them into Beijing, women who inquired about them were directed to taxis charging $24 each way. 
Other participants com­plained that police searched their luggage on the driveway outside their hotels and apart­ments, looking for forbidden change ideas, make useful con­tacts and raise funds. 
That is where the disorgani­zation and security restrictions chafed. Delegates trying to find out where friends were staying got blank stares from registra­tion workers. Those staying at Huairou's newly built apart­ment blocks who tried to ex­change phone numbers found no numbers marked on the phones. 
Many hotels told guests they could not bring other people to their rooms for conversation. Most barred non-guests alto­gether. 
"To me it's madness," said Sonia Bendorf of Brazil. 
"I don't mind that there's a leak in the toilet so there's wa­ter all over the floor. What I mind is the isolation and the lack of facilities to do the work we've come to do. How will I go to the events I'm invited to? There's where I'll meet my donors." 
NGO Forum leader Supatra 
Masdit, of Thailand, said there had been "a lot of rumors about all the bad things," but she downplayed them. 
Delegates are "very happy with the setup so when the fo­rum starts everyone will have a good time setting their own agenda," she said. 
However, she acknowledged hearing complaints about too much security and said she told the Chinese about them. The Chinese replied that they want to ensure the women's safety, she said. 
Delegations began setting up displays in dozens of tents and buildings scattered over a 104­acre site. 
At the African tent, women tacked a huge map of the conti­nent on one side along with posters declaring: "No To Vio­lence Against Women." 
Women from Kuwait used a compass to find Mecca, the Muslim holy city, before saying their prayers. 
By CAROLYN HENSON 
Associated Press 
GENEVA Frustrated by the United Na­tions' inability to get more than 
1.2 million Rwandan refugees to go home, Zaire said Tuesday they'll be forced to leave if they don't go voluntarily by the end of the year. 
The U.N. refugee agency dis­missed the deadline. The policy was announced by Prime Minister Leon Kengo wa Dondo after meeting for several hours with U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Sadako Ogata. 
"The UNHCR is fully commit­ted to mobilization of the re­sources and support necessary for the repatriations to take place, but it cannot commit it­self to any rigid time frame," said UNHCR spokesman Ron Redmond. 
Zairean soldiers began ex­
pelling refugees at gunpoint on Aug. 19, causing some 173,000 refugees to flee into hills and forests around the camps, with­out food or water. 
That prompted fears of a hu­manitarian disaster on the scale of last year, when mil­lions of refugees flooded into camps that quickly became vast fields of disease and starvation. 
The refugees mostly were members of the Hutu ethnic group who were fleeing rebels led by the rival Tutsis. The rebels eventually took control of the country, and the refugees are afraid that if they return they may face retaliation for last year's ethnic massacres that killed some 500,000 people -most Tutsis slaughtered by Hutus. 
Zaire stopped its expulsions late last week after UNHCR agreed to resume its voluntary repatriation program. 
p.olitical or religious materials. China is believed to have lo­
·.tAST CHANCE to get a higher score. 
EARN CASH by DONATING
cated the forum of private 

Lut clan begins: its fears that the delegates' de­groups in Huairou because of 
Thurday,August31
You could earn: 
bates, protests and pamphlets 
TARGETED TRAINING
would infect Chinese with a 
is the most customized, flexible
$30°0after your first plasma donation!
spirit of dissent. 
approach to LSAT study ever.
Chinese officials announced Tuesday that marches or 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST
$1500 
if you donate alone 
protests could be held only in 
TARGETED 
one designated place, a 
+$ 500 if you show college I. D. (first visit)
Huairou schoolyard, and could 
TRAINING 
KAPLAN
not target China itself. 
+$1 000 per person if you recruit someone and they donate
The forum of private groups is being held in conjunction 
$30°0 TOTAL!
with the U.N. Fourth World Conference on Women, a 
Help Us Save Lives
smaller and more sedate gath­ering of government delega­
The Observer
Must be 18 years old; proof of current 
tions which opens Monday in 
Beijing. 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positi~ns:
address with photo 1.0. 
The NGO women say they need to be able to travel to the 
COME TO: HOURS: 
U.N. conference to lobby dele­
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 
Illustrators
gates. And they want to mingle 
515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 
freely with each other to ex-
Daily Cartoonist 
\ I 
~P----------------------------------------------, 
Weekly Political Cartoonist 
Contact Garrett Gray@ x1786 for more information.
Are you thinking about becoming Catholic? 
INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
Would you like to sponsor 
. SOUTHBEND 
someone who wants to 
CONTINUING EDUCATION
become Catholic? 
GRE?GMAT?
If you answered YES to either of these questions, please come to one of the information sessions listed below to find out more about the RCIA 
LSAT? 
(Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults) 
Information sessions Information sessions 
IUSB! 
for candidates for sponsors Sun. 9/3 4 pm Mon. 9/4 7 pm 
GRE Review 
Badin Hall Campus Ministry Office Badin Hall Campus Ministry Office 
5 Thursdays 2 Saturdays and 6-10 p.m. OR 3 Thursdays, 6-10 p.m.
Wed. 9/6 10 pm Thurs. 9/7 10 pm 
begins Sept. 14 begins Oct. 28
103 Hesburgh Library (CM office) 103 Hesburgh Library (CM office) 
Sun. 9/10 12:30 pm Sun. 9/10 12:30 pm 
GMATReview LSAT Review 
Log Chapel Log Chapel 
5 Mondays 
4 Saturdays 6:30-10:30 p.m. 
1-5 p.m.
Questions? 

begins Sept. 18 begins Oct. 28
Call Fr. Bob Dowd, CSC at 1-7800 or 
Intensive strategy reviews priced hundreds of dollars
0MPUS Kate Barrett at 1-5242
MINISTRY 
less than similar programs 
Call237-4261 for info 
j 
• .',I,' I I 1 I • 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, August 30, 1995 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager .......................... .John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Spona Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systelll5 Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Sainr Mary'• Ediror .................... Paui Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials repr<Sent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenrari<S, letters and Inside Columns pr<Sent the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• DESIDERATA 
ND/SMC: A brand new lace to call home 
"'How was your summer?" You've 
probably heard this phrase a hundred times this week already, and, if you're like most people you are already dreadfully sick of it. 
However, it seems that people keep asking, whether or not they really care. Therefore, I'll tell you how my summer was. It was not one of the best. 
One week after I returned from school, I began a bar review course. The bar exam took place the 
hard for me to accept -especially now. My sister is returning to Saint Mary's; many of my friends have returned to South Bend for the school year. I guess I'll get used to the situation sooner or later, but at least right now, it feels strange, and it makes me sad. 
I am sure that this comes as no sur­prise to my friends or to those who have read my column before. But right now I would like to welcome the newcomers to 
the Notre 
25th and 26th of July, Dame/Saint so, up until then, my Mary's communi­summer was largely ty, who may won­spent getting ready der why I feel
Kirsten
for it. I studied a lot, such strong ties to and it was still my alma mater. extremely difficult. !cannot fully With most exams, you explain why I
Dunne 
get all psyched up love the atmos­before hand and then phere at Notre after it's over you say Dame so much. It your opinion, your ethnicity, your physi­cal capabilities, or something else -you might, at times, feel out of place. 

ou might be told, directly or indirect­Yly, by some less sensitive members of the community that you do not belong here. I won't lie to you and tell you that such incidents don't ever occur. They happen, and they hurt. 
However, for every insensitive person you meet here, I guarantee you that you will lind at least one other person who will open his heart to you and be your friend -all differences aside. And when you have friends who will aceept you and back you up for who you are, the other people don't seem to matter as much. These are the kind of friends you will meet at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and, with their love and support, I am confident you will soon come to call this place home. 

There is no place quite like Notre Dame, and no place I would have rather spent the last seven years. But once again, don't just take my word for it. Experience it, and may you enjoy your time here as much as I did. 
Kirsten Dunne graduated Notre Dame Law School in 1995 . 
it wasn't that bad. Not the bar exam. Despite all my study­ing, it was hell. 
T
. The heat wave which began in early July did not make matters easier. As someone who does not like hot weather to begin with, daily temperatures of at least 90 degrees left me with little incen­tive to do anything. he oppressive heat continued after my exam was over, which meant that I couldn't really enjoy my freedom. I was not a hermit, but I left the house much less than I would have had the weather been pleasant. 
The day after my exam was finished, I learned that Professor Edward Murphy had passed away, and, shortly there­after, on one of the darkest days of the year, I learned that Jerry Garcia had died too. I did not know Professor Mur­phy well, and I did not know Jerry at all, but each of them had influenced and touched me in his own special way. I am confident that they are in a much better place now, but still I miss them. 
And to top it all off, I am not returning to Notre Dame this year. Of course, I have known this for a while, but it is 
is something which one has to experience for oneself to understand. However, what I can say is that there is a tremendous sense of unity in the ND/SMC community. 
Everyone -no matter how diverse their backgrounds or beliefs -has some­thing in common, just by virtue of their being at Notre Dame together. Some of my best friends are as opposite from me as night is from day, and I often wonder how we grew so close. The answer I inevitably come up with is this -we met at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame is a place where you can say hello to a passing stranger without worrying that you might appear insane. It is a place where you know there is always someone nearby to help you with any problems you might have. It is a place which comes together as one in a time of crisis. It is, quite simply, a very special place, unlike any other that I have been able to lind as of yet. 
Because I do not want to give the impression that Notre Dame is Utopia, I will tell you that you might well experi­ence hard times here. If you are in any sort of minority group -whether it be 
• 000NESBURY 
'ieNATOR PAO<a/001? 
PAO<WOOO PINNE/?ME 7D 
THeN GRAEJ8l51?M&BY 
7HI3 NAU. AN{} Kl9f3131? 7HI3 ARA1S ANI?KIS5£3/? Me. 7HeN I F/3i.-T 7HI3 M&, R:l?ON6HIS 7lJN6l.£. JDNGU; COMIN6 ... 
INTOMYMCVTH... 
I
I 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
He H&W ME 8Y 7H& HAIR AN{} K/9.3E/? M&, FO!?ONG HIS 
llJNGU/3 IN7V MY MOU7H... I 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Idon't believe in God because I don't believe in Mother Goose." 
-Clarence Darrow 
~------------------------------------­
VIEWPOINT
p·age 8 Wednesday, August 30, 1995 

l
ean always find something to complain about. and now. At least for one more year, I can post­My life never seems to be going as well as it pone that day-in, day-out routine of going to a should. The weather is too hot. I already have "real" job. more homework than I can handle. Club 23 I have recently come to appreciate the here burnt to the ground. and now after seeing the jealousy in a co-work­
Growing up in a suburb of Kansas City, I never ers eyes when I left my summer job. And as I sat, had much to worry about. The oldest of three, I getting my hair cut, a few weeks ago, bellyach­spent days like these sneaking Twinkies after ing about having to return to the grind of home­school and imprisoning 
work, dining hall meals and fire flies just before 10 o' exams, when a woman in clock bedtime. On Sundays her mid-40s turned and we'd all pile in the family simply said, "I wish I'd been station wagon for mass, given the chance to go to
Kara 
later followed by a pot college." 
roast supper. Clearly, the discussion of Looking back on my my years spent in col­formative years, I appreci­lege, hit a nerve. For her, it 
Pavlik 
ate what I had. And in all was the disappointment of reality, things haven't never having the opportuni­changed all that much. ty to attend, for others it Alright, the Twinkies have been replaced with has been settling for a school that offered then 
dining hall Yo-cream, and the bedtime has been less than what they desired. extended; but my youth, without real responsibil­For myself, it is the need to make my college ity, continues for nine short months. experience, like my childhood, a recognized real­
C
So why does it seem so difficult to appreciate ity that youth -even in college--continues. our day to day lives as college students? Yet it is time relish in that youth, because for ollege Hfe shares with my childhood the us seniors, it truly is an end of an era. An end of theme of self-discovery at a time of rapid per­a time to be carefree without real responsibility. sonal growth. This time it gives way to a world My last time to dream, completely and idealisti­of adult responsibilities, an experience complete­cally, of what I want to be when I grow-up. ly unique from any other I will likely have. Perspective. That's what it takes to appreciate 
At Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, many of us these college years. Maybe with that I can give overlook the magnitude of our lives; focusing meaning to the now, because the now is quickly instead on ... ifI were in love, if I were abroad, if I fading into the then and the future won't be so were richer, smarter. prettier -then I'd be free. happy. Then life would be good. Kara Pavlik is a senior at Saint Mary's. She 
But especially as a senior, I feel the need to can be reached via e-mail pavl708 7jade. @saint­find appreciation for the goodness of life here marys.edu 

• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 
Notre Dame: Neverland or The Real World? 
O
h well, it's that time of year again, social service or at the end of a Zima 4-Freshman Orientation, I heard an ni who wish to maintain and affirm the when everybody piles up a lot of pack (you know who you are)! But hey, overzealous frosh vehemently declare Notre Dame you see in coloring books or crap in their rooms trying to emulate if you're destined to be an alcoholic, her love for this place and I wanted to in movies. the comforts of home with all those big then I guess that's your problem, just tell her, "Girl, you don't even know By signing our own letters of intent hideous brown couches and those stupid don't drink and drive (obvious anti-alco­Notre Dame how can you love!!" and choosing to stay, it is our duty to life-size cardboard cutouts of Knute hol plug). Then I got to thinking about Minority make Notre Dame ours. The mere fact Rockne or worse Rick Mirer. Yep, ole I tend to have a love/hate relationship Recruitment Weekend held in the that someone is paying close to one hun­Notre Dame, where the Dining Halls with this place. Mostly hate, but I try spring, and how many ethnic organiza­dred thousand dollars for our happy lit­should be against the law, and the not to be negative. Actually, most peo­tions have a lot of activities for the tle behinds to come here should be squirrels pay rent. ple do have this dualism and try to keep Domers-to-be, in essence giving them a incentive enough. 
And let's not forget our greenest mem­it balanced. rosy-colored image of life here. And i've invested my four years here and 8 bers, no, not the leprechauns, but our then you have those ethnic students who billion dollars (one hundred thousand in crew of rookie Domers, the freshmen. I will tell anyone even thinking about tuition and the rest for books) trying to was doing the whole Big Sister thing to a coming here not to set a foot on this evil change a little part of Notre Dame to few frosh-y'know, doing my part to campus again. So what is one to think. make it more acceptable for other Black initiate the newbies to the way of Dome, I try to look back at what brought me students.
Cristiane but some of them just don't get it. The to Notre Dame and what is keeping me I am not trying to do away with the best advice I can give anyone is to get a here. The latter is the easy one. I'm Notre Dame that exists now, but to good grip on reality, cuz Notre Dame staying because I have invested so much make it more inclusive of all students
Likely
ain't reality. time and energy, not to mention money, not just Irish-Catholics. 
This is important as four years in in this place that I'm not about to give I said before that I have a love/hate Never-Neverland can really mess you up that up. I have to strong enough in my relationship with this place and was bad. I've never seen so many underage convictions to say "I don't like Blah­quick to tell you what I didn't par­alcoholics in my life. Some little eigh­As a politically conscious Black blah-blah about Notre Dame", and then ticularly like, but what I love most about teen year old wanted me to buy her woman that's hard to do, and I have to be strong enough to say "well, I'm going this place is some of the people I've met some Hennessy, yeah right, but that's keep reminding myself that Notre Dame to do something about it". and encountered. Throughout every­another story, another day. is not a demonic entity. despite some You see adds in the classified section thing they make the trip worthwhile and 
T
College is supposed to prepare you for sound evidence. I truly believe Notre of this paper asking students not to be more enjoyable. the real world, break you down then Dame needs to be more student orient­so passive, submit letters of concern to I'll just say that the ideal of Notre build you up again, to enlighten and ed. I think we tend to be more con­the editor and have your voice heard. Dame is made up of experiences of all brighten your horizons. Obvious myth, I cerned with the image of Notre Dame We all have our concerns but most of us of those who chose to call her home for say. but regardless you're stuck here, rather than the students who make are so bogged down in academics that four years, and I think this is what we and if you're Irish and Catholic, this is Notre Dame. But I can see why this kind we don't have time to pursue them, and need to maintain rather than some folk­heaven on earth, and if your neither, of thing has to be maintained. they persist. loric picture that doesn't give the stu­you should be all right regardless. We just got a freshman class who have So which brings me back to the ideal dents enough credit for who they are. hese years are allegedly a time for significantly bought the ideal of Notre of Notre Dame. What is it? Or better you to find yourself, the real you, Dame with football weekends, the how can we mold Notre Dame and make Cristiane J. Likely is a senior in whether that grand discovery is during Grotto, leprechauns and four-leafed it truly ours instead of maintaining some Pasquerilla West and can be e-mailed the course of religious reflection, devout clovers everywhere. The second day of warped dated visions held by rich alum-at: clikey@artin.helios.nd.edu 
1 'I I J I 
ACCE-NT 
Wednesday, August 30, 1995 

A
s part of Accent's "Money" theme, Assistant Accent Editors Dan Cichalski and Angie Kelver catalogued every penny they spent over the course of eight days. The results are presented here because we thought it would be a nifty idea to try and figure out how to save money and cut costs. We will admit that these two Domers may not be typical. But still, it's an inter­esting and amusing experiment. Try it for yourself and see what a spendthrift you are! Results will, of course, vary for all stu­dents depending on personal health, lifestyle, or the weather. 
Monday, August 21 
$261.08. This is the bill from that primary trip to the Bookstore. Mom and Dad will recognize this figure wh·en it shows up in the mail in a few more weeks. 
Tuesday, August 22 
$13.01. Thirteen dollars for various stuff bought at the Bookstore-Grandma's birthday card, highlighters, notebooks, folders, and those sticky hooks for hanging stuff on the walls without drilling them. 
$15.00. Dues for the Student Manager's Organization. Fifteen dollars for the privilege of being Rudy. But I'll stop at the helmet painting~ Hey, did you know they use real gold in the paint? 
Wednesday,August23 
$69.20. Subscription rate for full delivery of The New York Times. "All the news that's fit to print" (and coverage of the Simpson trial as well) will be on my doorstep every morning this semester. 
Friday, August 24 
$5.00. Donation for (ahem) refreshments for one of several Grace Hall Welcome Back Weekend parties. I know some of you were there. You're wel­come. 
$10.00. Dinner at Macri's Deli. They seated us in the Norman Rockwell room so I padded my part of the tip. 
$2.00. Two dollars to see Sandra Bullock smile 43 times in "While You Were Sleeping," which averages out to about 4 1/2 cents a smile. Perhaps the best two bucks I've ever spent. 
Saturday, August 26 
$3.10. Purchased one copy of "Sports Illustrated." Destined to be one of the classic covers: a simple, black-and-white photo of Mickey Mantle. No words, no explanation, none needed. 
$3.15. Rented "Outbreak" and kept waiting for the monkey to run into Monica and Rachel's 
page 9 
Bookstore Blues 
The following is a list of students and how much money they cheerfully spent at the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's bookstores. See where you fit in! 
Ian Palmer-Junior-Psychology-$260 
Shannon Ball-Sophomore-English-$300 
Sean Keenan-Senior-Pre-Med-$240 
Devin White-Freshman-Government-$300 
Chris Alberta-Sophomore-Business-$420 
Mary Beth Reitzug-Senior-Government-$230 
Amy Rosinski-Sophomore-ALPP-$300 
Rebecca Antoviak-Sophomore-Pre-Med-$350 
Laurie Anderson-Junior-Mechanical Engineering-$270 
Molly lito-Junior-American Studies/CAPP-$220 
Liz Roantree-Junior-ALPP-$250 
Chris Dobranski-Sophomore-PLS-$400 
Joe Kraus-Sophomore-History/English-$37 5 
Mike Monroe-Freshman-Finance-$315 
Steve Brackett-Freshman-Biology-$400 
Doug Allison-Junior-Pre-Med-$285 
Matt Jenkins-Freshman-Theatre-$290 
Christine Ridenour-Sophomore-Business-$328 
Gia Golino-Sophomore-Spanish/Government-$265 
Kate Mosca-Sophomore-Biology-$395 
Matt Latimei-Junior-Finance-$275 
Melanie Pilnock-Sophomore-Marketing-$307 
Ruth Dimer-Senior-Theatre-$120 
Alex Fisch-Junior-Communications-$222 
Monica Thorson-Sophomore-Music/Education-$324 
Amy Cooper-Junior-CommunicationstSpanish-$331 
Lynette Malicki-Freshman-Biology-$271 
Collin Shaughnessy-Junior-Communications-$264 
Dan's Week 
apartment. Definitely a good movie, definitely. Now I've got this terrible urge to see a doctor. 
Sunday, August 27 
$18.00. Cab fares to and from the South Shore Railroad Station at the airport. If I had a car out here, this wouldn't be neces­sary-$18 of gas could get me to Toronto. 
$17.30. Round-trip train ticket to Chicago to view the Claude Monet exhibit at the Art Institute. Again, another unnecessary ex­penditure: three cars are sitting in the driveway at home and only two people are there to drive them. You don't have to be a math major to figure that one out. 
$3.81. Fine dining at Michigan Avenue's Burger King. I consid­ered spending this money on a glass of water at Michael Jordan's restaurant but then I would have had to tip the server as well. 

-
$11.7 5. A matted print of 
short for purchasing one of the 6 1/2-by-13-foot original panels of the "Water Lilies" so I had to set­tle for a print of this hilltop view of an Italian seaside town. 
$5.20. Total for eight Monet postcards {65 cents each), some of which may accompany my upcoming review of the exhibit right here in The Observer. 
$6.50. It took thirteen days, but I gave in and made that first call to Papa John's. I hope he doesn't blow that tip in one place. 
GRAND TOTAL: $461.60 
Wow. That's a lot for eight days (an average of $51.29 a day). Of course, it's the first week of the year and there were things like books to buy and art exhibits to see-things that I won't be doing that regularly. It was an interesting week keeping track of every penny I spent but it's not something I'd want to do all year. I think it's more fun to just spend the money and know you're enjoying what you do or what you get for it rather than seeing how much you've got left after knowing what you had in the first place. 
Angie's Week 
Monday, August 21 at Dairy Queen. I certainly 
$304.72. Books, books, could not let it go to waste. books. Does anyone else feel like screaming "Ripoff $1.93. Marlboro Lights. I City"? know, my clothes smell, my 
teeth are yellow and my 
$25.61. Shower shoes are alveoli are slowly dying out.,..: an absolute necessity. There is no getting around it. Saturday, August 26 When I think about others $6.83. Dinner at Friday's. that may have tread those Mushroom cheeseburger. tiles before me, money is Yum, yum, yum. really no obj,ect. 
$1.78. Marlboro Lights. 
$1.81. Marlboro Lights. Please don't say a word. I Yes, I know what the really do plan on quitting Surgeon General says. Yes, I someday. I promise. know it is a disgusting habit. The key word is $3.00. My contribution for habit. Addiction. a keg. Mom. please don't 
feel bad. It's not your fault. Tuesday, August 22 You did the best you could. I 
$5.33. Pizza Hut lunch was just a bad seed to begin buffet. I completely love with. those breadsticks. 
Sunday, August 27 
$.40. Cheetos from the $.40. Cheetos. My only vending machine. Maybe I purchase for the day. Not should have eaten more at too bad. lunch. 
Monday, August 28 Wednesday, August 23 $1.81.Yup, you guessed it. 
$1.73. Marlboro Lights. No explanantion necessary. Why are smokers so dis­$2.50 Vanilla latte from criminated against? If I Cap-n-Cino's. I figured a lit­want to smoke, let me tle caffeine was really noth­smoke. It is obvious that I ing to my body in the grand know the risks. How could I scheme of things. not? All we as smokers want is to be left alone. GRAND TOTAL: $391.13 Can't the world just leave us Not too bad, I guess. to develop lung cancer in Without books, that's peace? $86.41. But, if I spent 
$86.41 every week for the Thursday, August 24 rest of the school year, that $5.00. Cover charge at would be a whopping one of South Bend's classi­$2765.12. Urn, I don't think .est establishments. Boy, I'll I saved quite that much this have to make sure my Mom summer. Not to mention the gets a copy of this Observer. fact that I bought virtually Maybe I'll send one to nothing of actual substance, Grams and Gramps too. and completely mortified my They will be so proud. mother by broadcasting this fact in The Observer. With Friday, August 25 the money I spent, I proba­$27.23. A couple more bly could have fed a needy books for my classes. Gee, I family in Ethiopia for a was really worried that I month or so. Maybe next wouldn't have enough read­week I will instead take my ing to do already. money and make a donation 
to the American Cancer $1.05. I had a coupon for Society. Then again, maybe a small Blizzard for a buck not. 
late at night with three people sitting at the counter. variations been made, such as the "Boulevard of B r o k e n Dreams" that shows E I v i s Presley, James Dean, a n d Marilyn Monroe in the diner. I 
think they were spotted there last week. 
$17.50. A poster of Monet's "Bordighera." I was a little 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar CoUege Center. 
DearUine for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, August 30, 1995 

WANT ATHLETIC PERSON FOR  BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2or4  Need Texas GA for Texan sis, ND  I NEED NORTHWESTERN AND  2 navy GAs needed  
NOTICES  PERSONAL TRAINER AND MAS­SAGE THERAPIST. WILL TRAIN.  ND SEASON TICKETS ANY OR ALL GAMES. OHIO.ST.  '94 It's her Bday. She has$$ Call Stacy x1319  TEXAS TICKETS WILL TRADE FOR PURDUE  -tina 273-3174  
219-462-8943  andWASHINGTON A MUST  OR CASH  Help! I need 2 or 3 Texas GA'sl  
und parents: B & B football week­ PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN ........  I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'SI  Kevin x1883  
ends, 2 miles to campus, call 219­277-6832  FOR RENT  2771659  PLEASE CALL SUZV AT X3729.  CALL DENNIS@ (312) 951-5008  HEY  
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  4 TEXASTIX  LOST: Two tix to Texas Gamel!  Need Vandy and Texas tickets  
ENJOY THURS 8/31 WITH JOHN  NICELY DECORATED ROOMS  GAMES.272-6306  $30 per ticket  Can you help me find them?  call239-7959 ask for Mike  
KENNEDY OF SEAMAISIN ORIGI­ FOR RENT. F-BALL WKNDS,  Chris x1724  My old NO roommate is driving out  
NAL & IRISH SONGS, TUNES,  REASON. RATES, GREAT  1 G.A. TICKET NEEDED FOR B.C.  all the way from NYC. Please help!  Married Student Tix for Sale.  
STORIES. $3 COVER.  ATMOS., CONTIN. BRKFST, 2  GAME 271-1289  PLEASE help a Senior in need!  Will pay big $$$$ Call KA TY at  271-2977  
MIDWAY TAVERN DANCE HALL  MILES OFF-CAMPUS. CALL KIM  For ANY Vandy, USC, or Navy tix,  634-4410.  
810 W 4TH MISH  277-8340.  NEED TEXAS GA'S.  you will be compen$atedl  Need 2 Vandy GA's  
2 BLKS SO OF 1 00 CTR  CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010,  Nick 3372  In desperate need of 2 TEXAS GAs  Please call Jon@ X1103  
255-0458 NEED 10  2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR  EXT. 8796.  for grandparents. Call Kevin x0584  
CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  Sure could use a STUD TIK BOOK.  I NEED NORTHWESTERN GA's  
HYPNOTIST -INDIVIDUALS OR  272-6306  My wife will kill me. Need set of  Sen. pre!. Josh @ 273-2938.  Texas Boy needs Texas GAs. Call  PAUL X5113 -PLEASEIII  
SMALL GROUPS-MORNINGS,  Married Student tix. Brett 272­ Miguel at X3336.  
AFTERNOONS, EVENINGS-STOP  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO  7223  In DESPARATE need of 1 student  NEED TICKETS AND PRAYERS.  
SMOKING, WEIGHT CONTROL,  232-2595  ticket or GA for N-western game.  HELP!!I I NEED OSU TIXIII  TEXAS GA'S CALL SARAH X4916  
PHOBIAS, ENHANCED LEARN- Wealthy Alum needs tix for all home  Call Hank at ext. 1716  Willing to pay $ or trade for PUR­ 
ING, SPORTS PERFRO­ ROOM WITH KITCHEN, UTILI­ games. Brett 272-7223  DUE or USC GA's. call Dawn  I NEED BC GA'S & STUD TIXI  
MANCE, SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION,  TIES, ETC. $250/MO. CLOSE TO  Need Student Booklets and GAs for  x3793  CALL JOHN @ 234-5771  
MEDICAL AND DENTAL ANAES­ CAMPUS IN SAFE NEIGHBOR­ Desperately need USC tickets! II  every game.  
THESIA 234-2095  HOOD. CALL PAUL 232-2794.  3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student  Call 277-4755  WILL TRADE 2 NW GAs FOR 2 TX  Desperately Seeking 4 GA's to  
Please call Chris at 288-7843.  GAs. CALL NICOLE@ 1-800-827­ Vanderbilt!! Amy 4-0746 :)  
Experienced professional teacher  Affordable, clean, student apts.  NEEDED: 2 GA's for USC  2637 BETW 9AM & 5PM  
offers tutoring in math, calculus,  Furnished studio, $235  I need 2 Texas tickets and as  call4x4876  NEED TWO GA'S  
g~neral physic!). John Sienicki  Furnished 1 bedrm, $270  many tix for Vanderbilt as possible.  NEED 3 NORTHWESTERN STUD.  for VANDERBILT  
233-7232  heat & water included  Please call Kathleen at 4843.  Student needs  TICKS. MATT @288-3823  call4-3103  
755 South Bend Ave-1 block from  2 tickets for USC game  NEED STUD TICKS APPLICAT.  
SAVE THIS AD WEEKEND ROOMS FOR N.D./S.M.C. VISI­ N.D. Ave deposit, references 1-800-582-9320  Need 2 Texas GAs. Desperate and Wealthy!  for DOMESICK parents please call Bonnie at 634-3397  OR WHOLE BOOKS ­@ 288-3823  PERSONAL  
TORS. 5. MIN. FROM CAMPUSES  Call 1-800-223-2440 Ext.4370  with your tickets.  Have cash, need NW student ticket,  
219-277-2388  n d events  $$$$$$  let's trade. Beth 273-2089  $5.50 HAIRCUTS  
rooms near nd b& b $60  4 GAs need for Vanderbilt, 273­ VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
ILOST & FOUND I  219-272-9260  need vanderbilt tickets GA's or married student tix  3016  I NEED ANY GA'S .... ANY GAME I ESP. NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST SOUTH BEND -233-4767  
Furnished Room. Clean, attractive.  call Dan @ 273-4780  MARRIED STUDENT TIX 4 SALE!  X3890  
Lost two-toned, gold bracelet with  Kitchen privileges. Quiet neighbor­ 1 PAIR. CALL AND LEAVE  WE CAN'T EXIST WITHOUT YOU I  
clasp on Mon. 8-28. Great senti­ hood. 2 mi. to N.D.  11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111!1!!!!!!!!  ME$$AGE. HIGHE$T OFFER  NEED 1 STDNT TCK BOOK  
mental value. Considerable award  $200 per month. Call 282-2576.  Need 2 TEXAS GA's lor my Aunt's  GET$ 'EM. 271-1531  WILL PAY$-CALL ALEX 287­ Fight the apathy that seems to run  
offered. Please call634-3177. No  1st first visit to NDI Call Mary Kay  6743 A.S.A.PI  rampant in this community of Notre  
questions asked.  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­ atX4421.  HELP! I NEED 2 TICS FOR VAN­ Dame/Saint Mary's/Holy Cross. If  
HOOD 3BR FURNISHED HOME 5  DERBILT-SEPT.i6 PLEASE CALL  NEED 1 NORTHWESTERN  you have a gripe, issue, concern,  
Lost a buch of keys somewhere on  MINUTE WALK TO NO BULLA RD  need TEXAS, USC, BC tkts  AMY 634-3812  STUDENT OR GA TIX. CALL ALEX  etc. SHARE it. Let YOUR voice be  
campus on Saturday. It has a name  2773097  call Mike x4429  OR CHRIS 287-6743  heard.  
tag in the shape of California  NEED 2 WASHINGTON GAs.  The Observer's Viewpoint  
license plate that says Kris. If found please contact 4-1697.  FOR SALE  I HAVE USC TIX Will trade 2 GAs plus stadium park­ Melissa X1471  CAMPUS ORGY I need Northwestern tickets! 2, 3,  Department exists as a service to you. You make the section what it  
ing pass for 4 Texas or BC GAs.  Will trade 2 '96 Daytona 500 tickets  or 4 student or GA'sl Please call  is. We need you.  
•••••••********LOST ··-·-·•••••••  1990 Honda CRX Sl Yellow 5­ Call Matt W(312)704-7704  for 4 NDrfX tickets. 904-947-6726  x4420  
TWO KEYES ON RING IN  Speed 59K $6950 Firm II! 277-9276  H(312)549-0825  from 9 to 5.  FIGHT THE APATHY. SUBMIT!  
STEPAN FIELD DURING THE  2 MARRIED ST BOOKLETS &  
PICNIC DINNER 8123  486 computer system. lots software  NEED 4 NORTHWESTERN GAs  Need 2 ND(fexas tickets. Call904­ 2 NW GAS 4SALE  JAZZERCISE  
••••• PLEASE CALL 634-4846 .....  printer.$1200. Lance x2043  Physician doing the buying­ 239-8289 after 5 pm.  BO BY 8 PM TH @232-1004  ITS A FUN WAY TO GET FIT  
BIG BUCKS OFFERED!  & STAY THAT WAY.  
WANTED  1982 Toyota Celica 5-speed, 2-door, no rust.  Call Ryan at 233-5273. •Also need BC student tix.  Will trade 2 BC GA's for 2 Texas GA's. 815-282-9503  I NEED TEXAS GA'S AND WILL PAY GOOD$$$  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 277-0111 FOR MORE INFO.  
Lots of new. Excellent condition  CALL KAREN AT 271-1569  
WANTED: Saint Mary's sports writ­ 631-8071, 273-3166 Ask for Oleg  $120 for your stud tix book, grad or  I have 2 GA Northwestern tickets  
ers and photographers. You do not  senior preferred.  that I would like to trade for 2 GA  GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  COME TO BRIDGET MCGUIRES  
have to commit on a full-time basis.  Waterbed super single size with  Chi-chi @ 273-4791  TEXAS tickets. Jill. 273-0211.  CALL 2719464 OR 2887162  ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT FOR  
Call Caroline at  book headboard and twelve draw­ 80'S NIGHTIII LISTEN TO  
284-4349 or come by room 222 in  ers. Includes black satin sheets and  NEED 1 Northwestern ticket.  DESPERATELY need oneGA to  Two Ohio State Tix. Cheap.  BLONDIE, DURAN DURAN, AND  
Holy Cross Hall.  bedspread with a drain and fill kit.  Call Kathleen x2322  the NORTHWESTERN game for  4340  ALL YOUR FAVORITE 80'S  
$200.00 288-3366  my sisterllll Call Brian at x3061  SONGS. OPEN 8:00 TO 3:00A.M.  
OFF CAMPUS? NEED MONEY?  Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call  I NEED NORTHWESTERN STUD­ 
Established campus band looking  Desk 2 drawers (1 file drawer)  Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m.  SET OF MARRIED STUDENT TIX  TICKETS OR GA'S. CALL MIKE  
for place to play. Call Jerry x1197  $50 obo 273-593  for sale. $350 obo. Call 277-3864  AT 273-1718.  LOOKING FOR TALL DARK MEN  
$$$$$  TO DO MYSTERIOUS THINGS  
CHILDCARE  USED LSAT BOOKS  Need 4 BC tix Will trade Navy  HELP WANTED:  NEED 2 NW TICKETS  LATE AT NIGHT. PLEASE CALL  
NEED RESPONSIBLE PERSON  Are you taking the LSAT this Fall?  (parents weekend) Joe x1728  I will do anything for USC GAs.  Call Liz or Sue at 4544  AT ALL HOURS OF THE NIGHT.  
TO CARE FOR 6 YR. OLD CHILD  I f you want to save some money  Money no object. Brian x3692  ASK FOR CUJO, HOODY, KEN,  
IN MY HOME. N.D.-ST. MARY'S  and buy some used LSAT study  Need 2 Northwestern Tix. student  PLEASE help me out!  SHIELDS, SKI, OR VANHECKE  
AREA. RELIABLE CAR NECES­ books call634-3397. These  or GA's. $$$$or trade. Liz 4905  ??Need Tix??  I need GA's for any home games.  CALL 239-7959  
SARY. MON-FRI,  books were used this summer, and  I have 1 Texas, 1 USC, and  CALL Noelle x4814  
2:45-5:00 (OR SOME DAYS).  know what it takes to do well  I need 1 GA for the Northwestern  2 Navyll Taking best offers.  PANCHOIIIPANCHOIIIIPANCHOIIII  
WAGE NEGOTIABLE.  634-3397  Game. Call Brian at 4-1570  Callnowx4121  Need 1 Student Ticket lor the  WHERE'S THE TWO EGG SPE­ 
CALL 271-8224 EVENINGS.  USED LSAT BOOKS  Northwestern game. Please call  CIAL?? NO, GET A BURRITO  
NEED NO-TEXAS GA  2 Married Stud Tixs 2 Sale.  273-5818.  YOUR A BIG GUY!  
Looking for a SuperChampionship  USED TEXTBOOKS-UP TO 40%  OR STUDENT TIX.  Call287-2093  
tennis player to go play a good  OFF-2 DAY SERVICE-NO­ CALL DAVE 609-779-3876.  I need ticket for Northwestern garne  ND/SMC STUDENTS!  
match. Call Natasha at 4-3490.  HOWARD STREET-233-2342.  NEED 4 USC GAS BIG MONEY!  for my little brother. If can help call  •HAVE YOU EVER BEEN  
OPEN7DAYS  NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC &  RUTH x3741  Keith at 3482.  TURNED DOWN FOR CREDIT?  
Subway Sandwich Shops is now  PANDORA'S BOOKS  PURDUE GA'S.  HAVE YOU EVER BEEN HUNTED  
hiring part-time Sandwich Artists.  219-422-6088.  Need BC GAs 232-9784  For sale set of married student tix  DOWN BY A BILL COLLECTOR?  
Close to campus, will work around  By local1982 NO Grad  books. Call and make an offer  •HAVE YOU EVER HAD ANY  
your schedule, competitive pay and  1984 BMW 325E Blue 5speed sun­ SELLING MARRIED STUD TIX  ND ALUMNI NEEDS 2 FOOTBALL  @237-0072  TYPE OF FINANCIAL PROBLEMS,  
a free sub every1ime you work. Call  roof + all power options  BOOKLETS 232-4827  SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­ AS FAR AS CREDIT CARDS ARE  
Penny at 277-7744. Call today  High mileage, looks & runs great  AL USE PAY WELL 2773097  DESPARATEL Y NEED 3 G.A.  CONCERNED?  
and you could start tommorrow.  $4900 Call 299-0680  TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME  IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO ANY  
•••• NEED 2 BC STUDENT TIX •••  Need N-Western tix, stud or GA.  FOR MY FAMIL VIII  OF THESE QUESTIONS, CALL  
Macri's Deli in downtown South  NO ALUM MOVING-Window Air  Call Dave 277-4755  CaiiTim@ x1201. PLEASEII  $$$$$ PLEASE CALL LIZ x2776  KRISTA AND JOEY AT 1-4540  
Bend is now hiring for all  Conditioner $50, Couch $70,Chairs  
positions. Looking for reliable,  (3) $30ea, fold out soft couch $40,  I need two GA football tickets for  HELP!! I need 1 NW Stu or GA  IF YOUR BAND WILL BE PLAYING  
hard working people in return  lrg bookshlvs $35, slicing elec stove  Northwestern and for any home  Elaine 42389  *1\*l\'*l\*l\*l\*1\*l\*l\*l\*l\*l\*l\*l\*l\*l\*l\*l\  THIS WEEKEND, LET THE FOLKS  
for a fun work atmosphere and  $50, Schwinn 1 0 spd. $60, picnic  football games. Please call  PLEASE HELP! NEED 1 GA FOR  AT ACCENT KNOW! 631-4540  
flexible schedules. Apply in  tbls $35 ea. WILL DELIVER ­ Dawn 4990  NOTRE DAME season tickets  TEXAS GAME. $$$$BUCKS$$$$  
person, 2-5p.m., 214 N. Niles  OC/Dorms-232-9784  wanted. Top dollar paid. 674-7625  CALL TED x3384.  NDE 4th Day Opening Mass  
Ave.  STUDENT OR GA NEEDED FOR  (24 hrs.)  7:30prn tonite, Grotto -bring blan­ 
Awesome Tailgaterslll ND FIGHT­ BC ... WILL PAY LOTS$$$$  kets. it rain, Stanford/Keenan  
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break  ING IRISH conversion vanl Runs  CALL4-4828  I need Northwestern tickets.  Chapel. ALL WELCOME!  
Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Best  Great, $1995, Call to seel232-9784  Please call Bryan 272 4249  •••Need 1 Northwestern GA •••  
Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun,  ···can Sean x2035•••  LOW LOW student tix. x4323  
Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break  THE PERFECT CARI1985  1111@11@ @1@1@@ @!#$#@$$%$@  Need 2 GA's & 3 Stud tix 4 Texas  
Travell1-800-678-6386  HONDA CRX, BLUE, 5-SPEED,  larry needs youll  game -Reggie x4297  2 GAs 4 Sale: NW,Vandy,UT,Navy  LOOKING FOR COMPANION­ 
GREAT GAS, LOW MAINT. $2400  He needs your tickets tool  271-2837.  husky female to embrace rna­ 
BABYSITTER NEEDED TO CARE  CALL 271-8280  Looking for Navy G.A.s and VAndy  NEED GA's TO ANY HOME­ CALL Tybor at 4-4332  
FOR 2-AND 5-YEAR OLD IN  GAs or student tix. Call 634-3593 if  GAMEI!III CALL KATIE X1093  I have Northwestern Stud Tix for  
HOME LOCATED 10 MI. SO. OF  GA's for all games. Call Joel at  you can help him out.  sale -C.K. 1-6696  Habitat for Humanity is looking for  
NO. ANY BLOCK OF TIME  4-4326.  !#@#$@$%#@ @#@ @##@@ @#!  an enthusiastic, motivated person  
BETWEEN 9:30-5:00 MON.-FRI.  NEED TICKET FOR NORTH­ to help coordinate the construction  
- TRANSPORTATION A MUST. CALL 299-0051.  TICKETS  Need two GA's for Northwestern  NEED GA OR STUDENT TICKETS TO USC AND TEXAS HOME  WEST GAME, PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE! CALL SARA AT 41328.  of a home this year. Construction skills and contracting experience  
so my little brothers can go to the  GAMESII WILL PAY GOOD$$$$  are very helpful, but not necessary.  
$1000 FUNDRAISER  A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  game. Willing to pay $$$$  CALL CHRIS @ 239-8922  For more details call Fitz at  
Fraternities, Sororities &  GA'S TO ANY/ALL  Jon @ 634-1389  STD. TX. BOOKLET  234-0783.  
Student Organizations.  HOME/AWAY GAMES.  4 SALE (#3959)  
You've seen credit card  219-232-0061,24 HAS.  I need two GA's to the USC game.  TRADE ­2 BCNandblt GAs for 2  
fundraisers before, but  My high-school friend is threatening  USCrrexas GAs-Call219-273­ Women of Breen-Phillips Unite:  
you've never seen the  never to speak to me again unless I  8379  We Must Kill Lally Girl I  
Citibank fundraiser that pays  TICKET-MART, INC.  find some this weeki Call 4-4889 if  I HAVE GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS,  
$5.00 per application.  WANTED  you can help!  Need 1 Texas, will trade 1  VANDY AND NAVY .... IF YOU  
Clill Donna at  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  Northwestern Karen X4285  HAVE TICKETS FOR USC AND  give me a message, you amphibian  
1-800-932-0258 ext 65.  HOME/AWAY NO GAMES.  I WILL PAY$$$ FOR YOUR  WANT TO MAKE A TRADE .....  until I'm an organism.  
QualifiEI!i-Callers receive a  BUY.SELL •TRADE  FOOTBALL TIX APPLICATION  2 !-ball tix appl's 4 Sale. Call 284­ Call Tom at: 4-3893  
FREE camera.  (219) 232-0058-24 HAS.  CHRIS 631-6696  5118 and leave offer.  oh  


'I 
Wednesday, August 30, I995 The Observer • SPORTS page II 
• U.S. OPEN RESULTS 
Agassi, Sampras advance easily in opening round 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
Impervious to aces and immune to scorching heat, de­fending champion Andre Agassi blazed through the first round of the U.S. Open in 81 minutes Tuesday to push his winning streak to 21 matches. 
Agassi. seeded No. 1, shrugged ofT 15 aces by Bryan Shelton, drilled aU tho balls he could reach, and turned a po­tentially tough opponent into just another patsy, 6-2, 6-2, 6­2, as courtside temperatures soared into the 90s. 
NORTH VILLAGE A.LANDING Friday Nite Buffet 
5pm-8pm 
Prime Rib Sunday Brunch 
10am-2pm 
5 2 56 5 U . 3 1 /3 3 N o r I h ; So u I h B e n d , I N 4 6 6 3 7 
511 
(219) 272-8180 
... 
t.-',, 
.... '~ . ,.~ 
.. I 
&
. _;_ .. 
present
.·. 
. ·, 
} to •• 
' . . 
< • • ~ • t 


., ·..•• 'IL· 
Off the Bench with ~11ute, Vince and the Bear An original play. ·ght Buddy Farmer. 
Mail to: "Coacho•· Tickets • Washington Hall, Unlvorsity of Notrt! Damo, Notl"l Dame, IN 46556. Makl ehaclal poyablo to: Unlvarsity of Not111 Damo 
·I 
,I .J VIA .J Mutercard Card#___ -~----........-....·-·-·-· ... . .-....-......~................-----Exp. data--------­'1 )~ w\ 
I ~ 
J~ ~ · 1 4 Clty/Stateilip I,·~ 
:,1 I( 
·a # of tickets x $50 each = $ total Performance: 0 Friday, Sept 8 0 Saturday, Sept. 9 J~; ~:~.:.~~""'!~~~~--:""':~~-~-~~~~..-'!.'lc~,...,~~·~~;~'~,...~.~·~':"'"':'r:':'t'#.:r"·~·~~~~"'Y\~7.'M~"'!!!'......,~~~,~~~~-~, 
Playing gracefully and with nearly flawless precision from the baseline, Agassi picked up where he left off a year ago when he started his surge to the top of tennis. Shelton accommodated him by spraying 47 unforced errors -Agassi had only 14 -and double­faulting nine times while trying too hard to score an upset. 
"I am used to that feeling of playing guys who are just play­ing, in a sense, outside them­selves," Agassi said, dismissing the pressure of being the top seed at the Open for the first time. "I don't spend too much time thinking about the ranking very much:" 
Agassi rated himself a much better player than he was last year when he came into the Open unseeded and ran through a gantlet of top play­ers. 
"I am executing with total confidence," he said. "I have definitely taken my lumps. I have definitely learned my lessons, some of them the hard way. But I guess, ultimately, I have never given up." 
Two-time champion and No. 2 seed Pete Sampras was nearly as efficient in a 6-0, 6-3, 6-4 victory over Fernando Meligeni, an Argentine more at home on clay than on the Open's hard­courts. 
But Sampras punched a hole in the notion that all the men's matches are little more than a prelude to an inevitable final between him and Agassi. 
"Everyone's assuming that, expecting that, but that's the last thing on my mind," Sampras said. "It would be great to get to the final and play anyone, and it would be special to play Andre. But there's a lot of time between now and next Sunday. I think I'm off to a good start. 
"It's not like Martina and Chris. Everybody knew they'd get to the final each week. That's not going to happen in the men's game." 
The women's top seed, Steffi Graf, took nearly an hour longer than Agassi to beat Amanda Coetzer 6-7 (7-1 ), 6-1, 6-4 and avenge a defeat against the scrappy little South African at the Canadian Open two weeks ago. 
"I don't particularly like los­ing," said Graf, who succumbed in the first set after fighting off eight set points. "I definitely wanted to play her as soon as I could. I knew it was not going to be easy because I really haven't had a lot of matches." 
Graf acknowledged that her emotional state, shaken by the arrest of her father on tax eva­sion charges, was affecting her tennis. Her chronic back prob­lems, which led to her loss in the final last year, also continue to take a toll. 
the HecSports office. Please call RecSports (1-61 00) for date and time for captains' meet­ings. Our new hotline is 1­8REC. 
Shorin-Ryu Karate-Semester long course that meets in Rockne 219 M/W 4:30-6:30 starting Wednesday, Sept. 14. Hegister in advance, and the fee is $15. A demonstration will be held on Sept. 4 at 5 p.m. Call RecSports for more info . 
Women's Safety and Self De­fense-Class meets for ten ses­sions on MIW from 6:30-7:45 in Rockne 219. Class begins Monday, Sept. 4 and is open to students and staff. Fee is $9. Call RecSports for more info. 
Horseback Riding-An infor­mational meeting will be held on Thursday, Sept. 7 at 6 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Facility classroom. Class begins Sept. 14, and more info at 1-6100. 
Athletic Commissioners-All hall commissioners need to contact the RecSports office. We need names, phone num­bers, and addresses. 
Challenge-U-Aerobics-Sign­up for interval and advanced aerobics classes at the Rec­Sports office. Call 1-5965 for further details. 
Broadcast Irish Footbaii­WVFI needs assistants to help broadcast ND football games. If interested, call Ken Maverick at the station (1-6888) or at home (277-1753). 
Men's Club Volleyball-Tryouts will be held on September 1Oth, 11th, and 12th in the JACC Auxiliary Gym. For more info come to activities night or con­tact Josh at 4-3413 or Gregg at 4-1650. 
Saint Mary's College Basketball -The team will be holding a general meeting on Thursday, August 31 at 4:30 in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Judo Club -An informational 
-
meeting will be held today at 
10:00 pm in 365 Dillon. 
Equestrian Club -There will be a meeting for all returning members on Thursday, August 31 at 8:00 pm in the usual room on the second floor of the library. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Off-Campus Football-Anyone interested in playing for tho off­campus interhall football team must contact Bill at 273-1929 by Wednesday, August :~o. 
RecSports lntramurals-Rec­Sports is offering Interhall & 
Grad/Fac/Staff Baseball, Inter­hall (Men's and Women's) foot­ball, IH and Grad/Fac/Staff (Men's singles, Women's sin­gles, & mixed doubles) tennis, Freshman Swim Meet and 16" & Co-Hee Softball. The entry dates are from 8/23 to 8/30 in 
'• 


~---­
Wednesday, August 30, 1995 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
• Cm.LEGE fooTBALL 
------~--------·-----------~----~-------------------------------------------, 
Rigorous schedule makes Purdue's blood boil 
-
By STEVE HERMAN 
Assocaired Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
·Purdue·'s Boilermakers are eager to get their new football season going, although it's not exactly beginning with pushovers. 
Purdue opens the new cam­paign Saturday at No. 23­ranked West Virginia. The next week, the Boilermakers return home to face No. 9 Notre Dame. 
"We've been practicing 18 or 19 days now, and the players are bored seeing one another," coach Jim Colletta said Tuesday. 
"This schedule is going to test everybody in the program. I just read it's been ranked the eighth-toughest in the country, so we have to stay relatively injury-free." 
He said the players haven't 
talked about being the under­
dogs. 
"We figured it's motivation 
enough just to play the first 
game on the road. You just 
have to show up and play. The 
game, as far as I can tell, is still 
0-0," Colletta said in a tele­
phone conference call from 
West Lafayette. 
Purdue went 1-10 in 1993 and 
improved to 4-5-2 last year, 
although the Boilermakers did 
not win a game after the fifth 
week of the season. They 
return leading rusher Mike 
Alstott, a 240-pound fullback 
who could become Purdue's 
career yardage leader this sea­
son. Also back is quarterback 
Rick Trefzger, who missed the 
last three games a year ago 
after he tore a knee ligament. 
"We think we're in fairly 
decent shape," said Colletto, 
listing a stress fracture in the 
right leg of backup tackle Chad 
Manning .as the only significant 
injury. Manning probably will 
miss at least one game, he said, 
while starting tackle John 
Hoogendoorn returned to prac­
tice after injuring his knee. 
"Our Lady on 
the Dome" As the river called "St. Joseph" flows softly towards its end it turns eastward at a city aptly named "South Bend" 'Twas here Fr. Sorin founded a 
university 
or the glory of God's reign he named it for "Our Mother" 
Notre Dame--Notre Dame 
...So begins a beautiful eight stanza poem that belongs in every fan's home and office. Suitable for framing, the tribute is bordered in blue and gold. 
The spirit of the University sin­cerely expressed-makes a cher­ished gift. 
Send personal check or money order to: 
Pat O'Block, P.O. Box 306, 
LaGrange, IL 60525 
Allow I 0 days to 2 weeks for delivery.
r.----------------------,
1Name
I -----------------1 1Address
I ----------------1 1•cIty _______ state __ z-1p ---l INumber of poems@ 12.95* each ___I I Total l
I -----1 
I $2.50TotalS&H _____ 
: I Grand Total -----lI L*$f00 from each saie will be donated ro I 
I I 
1 the Notre Dame Scholarship Fund 
~----------------------~ 
Colletto said Ed Watson will start at tailback against the Mountaineers. He will be backed up by Corey Rogers, the Big Ten freshman of the year in 1991 who recently regained academic eligibility and has climbed from fifth in the pre­season depth chart to second. 
"Ed Watson deserves to start. He was the starter at the end of last year and in spring prac­tice," Colletto said. 
"But Corey is No. 2 and will see a good deal of action on Saturday. He's worked hard to do it, so he's earned the right to play. I hope he learned a lesson from it," he said of Rogers' aca­demic problems. 
Colletta's main concern going 
into training camp was the sec­
ondary. which lost some key 
players and lists three sopho­
mores and one junior as likely 
starters. 
"We've made an improvement 
in the secondary, but until we 
play somebody else, it's hard to Photo courtesy of Purdue Sports Information 

make a definitive statement of Purdue fullback Mike Alstott will be looking to become Purdue's career yardage leader this season as the 
where we're at," he said. Bolilermakers open the season Saturday against No. 23 West Virginia. 

The Observer 
TO THe 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 

Day Editor 

to work from about 
1:00 to 4:00 on Tuesdays & Fridays 
and 
Typist 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 31 
call Rob Adams
ON SouTH QuAD 
at 631-5303 ifinterested
APPROXIMATELY 6 PM 

Wednesday, August 30, 1995 The Obs;rver • SPORTS page 13 

Niners face Texas-sized competition in quest to repeat 

By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
An obsession with overtaking the Dallas Cowboys helped carry San Francisco to its fifth Super Bowl title last season. This year, the act the 49ers are trying to top is their own. 
"It's just as demanding, but the weight of what we face is really our own past," said Steve Young, who's going for a record fifth straight passing ti­tle. "There's no one else, no other team. It's just ourselves. We just have to go out and ex­tend ourselves beyond who we were last year." 
The 49ers were a special team in 1994. Young set an NFL record for passing effi­ciency and won a second MVP award. Jerry Rice became the league's career touchdown leader and the team scored a club-record 505 points, fourth most in NFL history. Meanwhile, a collection of mar­quee free agents led by Deion Sanders turned San Francisco's defense into one of the league's top units. 
The fortified 49ers denied Dallas an unprecedented third straight Super Bowl crown by defeating the Cowboys in the conference championship last January. The 49ers then beat San Diego 49-26 for a record fifth Super Bowl victory. 
Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information In bidding to repeat as league
Former Irish defensive standout Bryant Young hopes to lead San 
champions, the 49ers are tak­
Francisco in their quest for a second consecutive Super Bowl title. 
ing a more businesslike 
approach. Young said the des­peration that drove the team in 1994 has been replaced by a quiet resolve. 
"I think it'll be more profes­sional and more dedication than obsession," club president Carmen Policy said. "It'll be kind of like the Cowboys in '93. They won the Super Bowl in that magical year of '92 when many thought they should've come to Candlestick and gotten beat, and they didn't. In '93, they felt a commitment to pur­pose and that professional ded­ication. 
"I'd like to see a duplicate. We win two, and then in '96 let's decide who's the team of the decade." 
There are significant differ­ences between the 49ers of 1995 and the 49ers of '94. Chief among them is whether free agent cornerback Sanders re-signs with San Francisco or opts to play elsewhere. Dallas is among the teams competing with the 49ers for Sanders' ser­vices. 
"I don't think that we must have him," San Francisco coach George Seifert said. "But with the expectations and the things we have to do, you want to get all the talent you possibly can, whether it be Deion or any other player. 
"We'd like to think that we're capable coaches. But we're all in this business long enough to realize the team that generally has the most talent and is put together best has the best opportunity to win this thing." 
Ricky Watters, San Francisco's rushing leader the past three seasons, is among the talent the 49ers lost. Watters went to Philadelphia through free agency. 
Both coordinators are new­comers. Marc Trestman replaces Mike Shanahan, who left to coach Denver after three years as San Francisco's offen­sive coordinator. Pete Carroll, fired as New York Jets coach at the end of last season, suc­ceeded Hay Rhodes, who as­cended from defensive coordi­nator to take the Philadelphia Eagles' coaching job. 
San Francisco also has 16 new players, including top draft pick J.J. Stokes. UCLA's career receiving leader, Stokes is expected to miss the first month of the season with a bro­ken right hand. 
"I think any time you have that type of change, there's a change in the chemistry of the team. All of that remains to be seen," added Seifert, a two­time Super Bowl winner as head coach who begins the sea­son with an 84-24 career mark, the best winning percentage (. 778) in league history. 
"The frontline players, with the exception of Ricky Watters -and nobody knows what's going to develop with Deion ­our team is intact from a year ago and I think we've helped ourselves with some of the fel­lows we've picked up," Seifert said. 
AYRES FOR BACK· TO·SCHOOL! 
-
EXCLUSIVE ESTEE LAUDER 9-PIECE FREE GIFT 

BEAUTifUl 
Pf.RFUMEO 
ftODY LOTION 
lSTIJ lAUD£11 
ReActivating Complex 
•Beautiful 
Perfumed Body Lotion 

•Smoothing 
Creme Concealer SPF 8 

•Gentle 
Eye Makeup Remover •Hairbrush •Comb Offer valid now through September 16 while 


supplies last. One to a customer, please. 
CALL TOLL-FREE 24 HOURS A DAY 1-800-528-2345 

-
• Cou.EGE fooTBAll 

Barnett 
continued from page 16 
going against each other. Notre Dame probably feels the same." 
This season also marks the end of the contract between Notre Dame and Northwestern. However, third-year coach Barnett would like to see the series he's grown accustomed to continued. 
"I would love the series 
Holtz 
continued from page 16 
back for a fifth year but he's done all we've asked of him. I couldn't ask for a better team player." 
As always, the running game will remain an Irish focus. 
"Our success this year is con­tingent upon our ability to run the ball with some consisten­cy." 
Saturday will be a good mea­suring stick according to Holtz. 
"I can't tell you right now what kind of team we have but the Northwestern game should answer a lot of questions. Hopefully, the answers will be positive. I'm anxious to see us play." 
Lou Holtz using the words positive and anxious in the same breath; it is a new season indeed. 
Phillips still under investigation 
By DAVE ZELIO 
Associated Press 
OMAHA, Neb. 
Nebraska running back Lawrence Phillips can play Thursday against Oklahoma State and in other games even though an NCAA investigation is continuing, the NCAA's direc­tor of eligibility said today. 
Carrie Doyle said the NCAA has determined that Phillips' lunch with an employee of California sports agent Steve Feldman will not affect his eli­gibility. 
The NCAA continued to inves­tigate two other issues in­volving Phillips, Doyle said. One involves the 1995 Mustang con­vertible that Phillips has been driving. Doyle would not identi­fy the other issue, but the uni­versity has provided the NCAA with information about Phillips' status as a ward of the state of California. 
"He can play until the institu­tion and legislative services determines that there are viola­tions," Doyle said. 
Asked if Nebraska risked for­feiting games in which Phillips played should violations be 
renewed if we could play our found, she said: "No. As long as 
home part of the series at 
the institution acts in good faith Dyche Stadium (the 
to develop the information, it 
Northwestern home field)." 
doesn't seem to me that they
Barnett says. "I think it's a 
will be held responsible." 
good series for the Chicago Phillips, a junior, is consid­
area, but I would not be in 
ered a Heisman Trophy con­favor of going back to Soldier tender. He was the nation's No.
Field." 
'S 1B R U N 0 
PIZZA .NORTH 
Hours: 
Delivery 
'Till 1 AM Sun­273-3890 
Thurs Lunch and 
'Till 2 AM Fri and Sat
Regular Hours Lunch 11-2 
Beat NorthTJVestern! 
2 • 12 INCH PIZZAS-$1 0.50 INCLUDES TAX (UNLIMITED TOPPINGS) 
ALL THE SOUTH STORE FOR WEEKEND RESERVATIONS 288-3320 
273-3890 
IISTILL THE BEST" 
3 rusher last season with 1,722 yards for the national champi­on Cornhuskers. 
Phillips has said that Jack Verner, a recruiter for Feldman, had contacted him. Verner gave Phillips a ride to a Uncoln restaurant and paid for the meal last November, both of which were potential viola­tions of the NCAA's extra-bene­fits rule. 
Nebraska officials reported the lunch to the NCAA, which had contacted the school after learning that a Feldman employee had been in Uncoln. 
University officials have said Phillips repaid Verner approxi­mately $20 for his portion of the meal. Since the money was repaid, Doyle said, the incident was considered minor. 
"It's not that it's hunky-dory, but we try to look at a situation and impose similar conditions that have imposed in the past," she said from her office in Overland Park, Kan. 'This par­ticular fact scenario required that the young man repay the cost of the meal." 
The NCAA's legislative ser­vices division, which de­termines if incidents are viola­tions of NCAA rules, continues to work on the other two is­sues, Doyle said. 
Legislative services director Steve Mallonee has declined comment, saying only that the case is under review. 
Al Papik, NU's associate ath­letic director in charge of com­pliance, said the school has sent the NCAA information about the convertible. which Phillips has been driving since January. 
The owners of a group home in Phillips' hometown West Covina, Calif., have said they leased it for him. NU has pro­vided information on Phillips' relationship with Tina McElhannon, the head of the group home. 
The state of California was Phillips' official guardian begin­ning at the age of 12. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
lNIERVARSITYCHRlmANFEilO\mP  
IBmuhl  
Thursday 31ll 7:30 PM Center for SocialConcerns Call Chuck 4-3439 or Kevin 277-1971 for information  

DORMITORY REFRIGERATORS starting atRENTAL SIZES: 2.5 CUBIC FEET 3.5 CUBIC FEET $454.5 CUBIC FEET 6.5 CUBIC FEET for the school year PICK-UP AND DELIVERY AVAILABLE BURNS RENTAL, INC 332 W. MISHAWAKA AVE. (corner of Mishawaka Ave. and Uberty Dr.) 259-2833 259-2833  



I I I I' t • I I I I I' 1 
Wednesday, August 30, 1995 The Observer· TODAY page 15 
39Whatthis
15 Shoulders 70 Ignition
puzzle's
warmer problem?
numbers refer 
16 Abominate to 71 Advertising sign 17 Spongy toy 
43 Looney Tunes material 
and-
DOWN
18 Beef cut 
Melodies 19NewHaven 
Have
44 Each 1 Swearer's students 
euphemism45 Halves of qts. 
20 Setting of 2 Fencing 
46 Spring mo.
Verdi's "Simon weapons
47 Kind of fence Boccanegra" 3 Horn-shaped 
something to
50 Series ender 
22 #45 part
53 #103 27 Left ventricle's 5 F.D.R. Veep 
24 #94 4#92 
57 #100 outlet 59 Tiptoe 6 Horse-racing fan's hangout: 
say?
Abbr. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 Urban sunning sites 8 Radii neighbors 
Use
90racle 
101936 Clare Boothe Luce play 
11 More healthy 
The Observer 
121nclined 13-coil (1891 
51 Silent types 20-Across
~:...e--F--1 invention) 37 Authorize 
52 Varnish resin 64 Japanese
21 Copycat 38 Dolt 
53 Gloomy, to poets honorific 
classifieds
23 Keep one's­40 Plow 
the ground attachment for :+.=+:'+.'-Ei 25 Elevator maintaining 
Get answers to any three clues 
-=+~-+=-B 26 Memorial Day uniform depth 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
weekend event 41 Nearly catch, as 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
.:;;..L.;...;..L;;;;..L...;...=.J 
29 Hindu retreat the heels 

GETTING DRUNK IS LIKE A COMPUTER VIRUS 
1. Your system might crash and cause serious damage. 
2_ Important information may get distorted or lost 
3. Your system might suddenly and unexpectedly purge itself. 
4_ You may lose something important such as a project or a relationship. 
5_ You can't just escape (esc) from either one_ 
6. This problem may infect or affect others_ 
1. Too much of either one will cause serious problems_ 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 




FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
NoNt 1'1.\3uL~') -;>I? 
Co~~EC1 mE IF I'm W~oN(.,]ur WEIIEr<,iT!Crl.T P~•c.O LowER 
L;.s..-~EAR, AND 
!fl£ ~E.I\I1 \3E.foltE 
-j~m--(\NO 
~lL fop. TfiE. 'Sf',Me: 
Nv(YIBU<. Of f.\oNIE. 
GA{IIE.l.?..lfiE. P~IC.E. 
or ~ovD 1-\e:ll'llf,­p,., ...... ~0 l)p 0(1. 'SomEi\\11"~ ?I~ 
\\t.RE.'S ST\~~'i, 11-1£ Tfo..L\(\t-\G 111f\\ l>fo..RN "TI-\ROW '{()JR VOICe:" 
"'JX...I(! 1-\\, '5Tit-lK'I! S"''{ f'..'v Mf\OC If SCAll'oiD LIKE:. SC'JM£.11-\\~G ~ S\JS\t.' E'IE.R'{OOE. WOJU> 13£ tooLE.D. 
I 
.)!:(~.­
\ ' -., 
DILBERT 
I nHNK. YOU LIKE THAT'~ NOT TR,UEJ THAT COI"\PUTER LIZ. I DO NOT /"\ORE TI-\A N YOU LI K.E THAT COI"\PUTER LIKE ME ~ORE THAN I LIKE YOU. 
"TH/\T"
I 

COMPUTER? 
\___ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Campus V.I.P. 61 New World 29 Sleeve abbr.
1Art­
62 Starring roles 
30 Like some
5 Falcon-headed 65 Sprintstocks, for short Egyptian god 66 Globin lead-in 
33 Lupin a of the 
10 One of those 67 Craze
movies
14"-on both 
68 Thessaly peak 
35 Branda howl 
your houses!" 
69 "S-sugar" 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHEltsON 

;'~'l$tl~ctf~iltl.I·,®kWi1th , British Columbia rotr SEihS!~tlc,n,s··,· CUB, bring in the new era of WVFI· · Also appearing is Tacklebox. Come . 
. International •. Dismas House. and '· . atld Alcohol Information while ·· sounds ot CUB. Friday. September 1. 
charge is $2. 
-
South Chicken Strips Macaroni & Cheese Brocolli Spears 
-
~ --.--.--.~-.----. -1 ,-, \. ~-,-.-•.-~-~ I I ' ' ' I\ I\ 
•, I I I I\ • I' I • 'I • I I\ I I 
SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, August 30, 1995 




By MEGAN McGRATH with three interceptions and Spans Writer was second with 100 tackles. The Sporting News listed 
If Gary Barnett read a tran­Bennett as a preseason All-Big script of Lou Holtz's Tuesday Ten selection and named the press conference, he might Wildcat secondary the best in have accused the normally their conference. dour Irish head coach of steal­However, if any quarterback ing his lines. has the ability to penetrate the 
Monday, the Northwestern Northwestern defense, Barnett coach looked forward to believes it is Notre Dame's Ron Saturday's opening match-up Powlus. at Notre Dame with a great "After watching an entire deal of optimism and enthusi­year of Ron Powlus, I think he asm, much like Holtz did is a terrific quarterback." Tuesday. Barnett said. "I don't know if 
"I think we're very well pre­I've seen a better quarterback pared at this point and a very at this point of his career." focused football team," Barnett However, for Barnett's own said. "We're a very hungry squad the quarterback role football team." was up for grabs heading into 
Despite being underdogs to the fall. Senior Steve Schnur the host and eighth-ranked and junior Tim Hughes shared Irish, Barnett believes his the starting role last season, squad has strength in the right and Schnur was announced places. Monday as the starter against 
"Its a good match up as we Notre Dame. return eight starters on "Right now, we're a very defense and they return eight anxious and hungry football starters on their offense." team," Schnur said. "We're a 
The Northwestern defense is lot more confident than led by two-time Big Ten honor­before." able mention honoree William Barnett concurs with his sig­Bennett. The senior free safety nal-caller: "We're tired of led the Wildcats last season 
see BARNETTI page 14 
• Phillips cleared for now Women,s Soccer 
see page 14 
vs. Providence September 2, 10 a.m. vs. St. John's September 3, Noon 
• 49ers set to repeat 
Cross Country 
see page 13 at Ohio State September 15 
• Boilermakers face tough road 
see page 12 
vs. Northwestern September 2, 1:30 EST 
Volleyball 
vs. Northwestern September l, 8 p.m. vs. USC September 2, 8 p.m. 
Men,s Soccer 
vs. DePaul September 3, 2 p.m. 

