
Monday, May 1, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 131 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMCTostal to foster relations 
By JENNIFER LEWIS Saint Mary's Assistant Editor 
For Saint Mary's students, the celebration of Anlostal this year changed to SMCTostal. The Saint Mary's Student Activities Board fSABl decided to rename the series of events due to the lack of communica­tions between both campuses, according to Candy Novak, stu­dent chair of AnTostal. 
"I wish there was more of an lllTort involved to gel both cam­puses together for one big evllnt, " said Novak. 
By changing it's name to SMCTostal the SAB Board hoped that more Saint Mary's students would participate in the events at Saint Mary's. According to Novak, the SMCTostal comrnittr.e tried to get such events as sumo wrestling and bungee-trampo­linn jumping, but the adminis­tr'ation declined for safety rea­sons. 
"Last year AnTostal was something I looked forward to," said Regina Sophomore Colleen Duffy. "This year I didn't even know it was taking place until later in the week." 
During the previous years, l'llstivitins toke place on Thurs­day of Antostal week on Saint Mary's campus. Because of the rain, the day's activities were delayed to Monday from 3-5 pm on the library green. This includes tie-dying, fake tattoos, and The Alpha Experience, a visual simulation. 
see SMC/ page 4 



Habitat begins 'building blitz' 
Volunteers construct home in Northeast Neighborhood 
By ROB PIECUCH News Writer 

Recently, student volunteers for the campus organization Habitat for Humanity have been dedicating their time to the construction of a new home in the Northeast Neighborhood. 
Just last weekend, students began their "building blitz," the term used by the club to describe the process of coming together to build the house. Progress has been good, ac­cording to Erika Quinn, a Habitat board member and one of the project's organizers. 
"Last weekend we framed the house," she said. "Sunday we finished roofing the house and framed all the interior walls." The building site is located at 1054-56 Burns Street in South Bend. 
The club was founded by a number of architecture majors and currently has over 150 members. The expertise of the architecture majors has been a major asset, according to Quinn, "they are really a big help because they have build­ing experience." 
The campus club, which is not yet an official chapter of the national Habitat organiza­tion, has worked under the guidance of the St. Joseph County Chapter since its incep­tion. 
Discovering your possibilities 
Garno urges students to take risks, challenges 
By PAITI CARSON Saint Mary's Editor 
There will never be any greater influence than the place where you discovered your own possibilities, according to Mary Lou Gorno, Saint Mary's alum­na of 1972, who highlighted the ways Saint Mary's women con­tinue to transform the world last night in Madeleva Hall .. 
In her lecture "Outrageous Acts and Everyday Leadership," Gorno focused on the ways in which leaders are made. 
"I know that you can perform the outrageous acts that lead­ers must sometimes perform­take the risks, scale the heights and not let anyone or anything S!and as your obstacle ... And I know that you are also willing to put in the .work and dedica­tion that everyday leadership largest advertising firms andrequires, attending the meet­she currently serves as the viceings, making the phone calls, chair of the Board of Trustees
doing the research," Gorno 
at the college. In addition, shesaid. 
is the national chair of the
Gorno is vice-president at Leo Sesquicentennial Campaign for
Burnett, one of the world's 
Saint Mary's College. And since 
Glinda Nicodemus, the ex­ecutive director for Habitat in St. Joseph County, has provid­ed a great deal of assistance to the students on this, the cam­pus group's first independent project. Specifically, she has helped in obtaining the lot for the construction site. She has also provided a helping hand in negotiating with contractors and South Bend city officials on building procedures. 
The road to success for the Habitat here on campus has not been easy. The club gained official University recognition three years ago, and has had difficulty obtain­ing funding for the project ever since. 
The turning point for the or­ganization came about when a Notre Dame alumnus came forward with a $15,000 matching grant. The grant provided a stepping stone for the organization, as the club has raised roughly $30,000 over the last two semesters. The club conducted a Christmas fund-raiser last semester and a JPW fund-rais­er this semester. 
The family who will live in the house will undergo what is known as "sweat equity." This means that the family must work 500 hours on a Habitat project, either their house on 
see HABITAT/ page 4 


the students "inspire" her, .she found time to speak to mem­bers of the college community last night about how they can be leaders and about how 
see LEADERS/ page 4 
Photo courtesy of Erika Quinn 

Heather Hughes, a board member of Habitat for Humanity, helps assemble another home. 
By DAVID CLAIRMONT 
News Writer 
The Supreme Court has taken its first step in over 60 years to curb the abusive inter­pretations of the constitution's commerce clause, according to Professor Douglas W. Kmiec of the Notre Dame Law School. 
In this most recent case, the United States Supreme Court, in a 5-4 opinion, decided to override the 1990 Gun-Free School Zones Act. In arguing the case, yet another appeal was made to the "commerce clause" of the United States Constitution which allows the Federal government power to regulate activities which affect inter-state trade. 
Areas around schools which are ridden with guns tend to discourage interstate trade. By this line of thinking, the best action would be to use a Federal action to protect chil­dren and teachers in schools while at the same time, appeal­ing to the commerce clause for justification. 
Professor Kmiec takes the 
opposing side, as did Chief Jus­tice Hehnquist and Associate Justices Kennedy, O'Connor, Scalia, and Thomas in the ac­tual case. 
Kmiec said that for the past 60 years, in an attempt to ad­dress the country's ills coming out of the Great Depression and later to help the country to re­turn to a peace-time economy after World War Two, the com­merce clause has been invoked time and time again to allow the Federal government to guide the country through rough economic transitions. 
However, Kmiec also said that the commerce clause has allowed the Federal government's power to grow largely unchecked and that the recent court opinion has taken a significant step in reversing this trend. 
Kmiec said that the key to interpreting this case is to real­ize that it is "not denying the existence of federal authority in an appropriate case, just in an inappropriate case." 
see GUNS/ page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, May 1, 1995 


• INSIDE CoLUMN 
What are 
we so 
afraid of! 
We all must take up 
Robert Bollman 

the search for meaning during maturing process. __G_ra_p,-h_ic--,D_es_ig-=n-er__ In America this search for meaning is often confused by the myriad of lifestyles around us. People live such varied lifestyles that is some­times seems as though no ultimate unilateral truth exists. With an open heart and an unbi­ased mind, we fmd that many of these alterna­tive lifestyles and religions are just different ways of honoring the one spiritual truth. Many here at Notre Dame firmly believe that their religion, their god, and their beliefs are the only way to salvation. They preach that they alone are right, and they close their hearts ands minds to other lifestyles. This close-mindedness is one of the greatest social problems at Notre Dame. You do not have to look far to see this close­mindedness. The university, both students and administration, enforces written and unwritten policies of intolerance. How can Notre Dame preach that they are a Catholic institution upholding the holy doctrines of God when they do not practice what Jesus said was the great­est commandments: "Love your neighbor as yourself." This one statement demands that we be tol­erant of other peoples. Jesus did not turn to the women surrounding him and say "you have no place in my church." He made them a valu­able and active part of his ministry. Why then does the Catholic Church still preach that women have little place in the hierarchy of the church? Why are women treated as second class citizens in many parishes and in many faiths? How is it that attitudes of sexism and prejudice are allowed to proliferate on this campus? Jesus also preached the parable of a Samaritan and the good that he could do (Samaritans were the outcasts of Jewish soci­ety and were hated as foreigners). He preached that we must accept other peoples and lifestyles and the good that they can do. Jesus did not promote these other lifestyles, but he gave the people the respect that they deserve as humans. Why is Notre Dame is afraid of allowing our gay and lesbian students to congregate? Why is it then that Thomas Dooley, arguable one of the greatest people ever to graduate Notre 
Dame, is still hated because of the way he chose to live his life? Why is it that the good that he accomplished in the world id overshad­
owed by the fact that he was gay? If Jesus could use the parable of the good Samaritan to preach that people outside of his faith could do good and holy actions, who are we to say they can't? 
We live in a country and a world that are becoming more diverse every day. In this modern world of the Internet and television, we have the wisdom of history at our finger­tips. It is only in the unprejudiced learning that the truth and happiness can be found. Living with an attitude of social intolerance, one would be robbed of so many experiences and so many opportunities to discover the power of god and the beauty of the peoples that he has created. 

The spirit I see missing from Notre Dame is that of tolerance and love that Jesus wanted us to live by. Why can't we afford women, homo­sexuals, or people of other ethic backgrounds the respect that they deserve. Why do we hate those different from us? Why can't we afford them the love owed to all products of the one divine creator? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Amy Schmidt Mike O'Hara Melanie Laflin Production 
Sports Heather Dominique Joe Villinski Jackie Moser 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Fourteen prisoners break out of California jail 
SANTA CLARITA, Calif. 

Fourteen maximum-security prisoners broke out of jail early Sunday and 10 got away. 
Five of the fugitives are charged with murder, two are charged with carjack­ing and three are drug defendants, said Deputy Diane Hecht, a spokeswoman for the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. 
The four other inmates were captured almost immediately, she said. 
More than 100 deputies joined the manhunt and a helicopter crew 
Atomic city balks at peace statue 
LOS ALAMOS, N.M. 
Standing on a grassy median at the edge of town, Ginger Welch can look past the plateau and see the snowcapped mountains that isolate the birthplace of the atomic bomb. Welch said the median, which serves as a gateway to the Atomic City 30 miles northwest of Santa Fe, would have been a perfect setting for a peace statue suggested five years ago by Albuquerque elementary school pupils. Instead, the idea generated controversy and hard feelings, and the County Council this year rejected it. "A lot of people opposed to it may have felt that somehow this was being placed here as a punish­ment," said Welch, a councilor. The statue, a bronze globe, found a home anyway, at the Albuquerque Museum. It will be dedicated in August -the 50th anniversary of the atomic bombing of Nagasaki and Hiroshima in Japan. An estimated $45,000 was donated for the globe, which is now being cast. Caroline Gassner, the Arroyo Del Oso Elementary School teacher whose students came up with the idea, hopes the globe can also be used as a traveling monument for peace. So do stu­dents. "We want people to know this is still an innocent idea," said Dana Kaplan, 14. "We're not trying to malign anybody or incriminate anybody." To some, the work in Los Alamos helped shorten World War II and keep peace through the Cold War. But the scenic town of 12,000 tucked away in the Jemez Mountains still struggles with its legacy as a key contributor to the Atomic Age, and it remains a focal point for protests against nuclear weapons. 
Museum moves from Mapplethorpe 
CINCINNATI 
It's time for the Contemporary Arts Center to get 
pastMapplethorpe, according to its new director, 
CharlesDesmarais.Good things grew from the 1990 cen­
sorship controversy, including a heightened national pro­
me and increased membership, but "what we need to do 
now is move beyond that," he said."We'll give them 
newthings to complain about."Like what? Well, he won't 
exactly say."If I told you, it wouldn't be a surprise, and I 
want to surprise people," he said in his cluttered, yet-to­
be decorated office. "It's the job of a contemporary arts 
center to challenge our audience." Desmarais, due on 
the job Monday, was in Cincinnati last week to get 
acquainted with the gallery and the city. The center 
gained prominence when it and then-director Dennis 
Barrie were charged with obscenity for exhibiting homo­
erotic photographs by Robert Mapplethorpe. Both were 
aquitted. The case sparked a national debate on govern­
ment funds for the arts. Barrie left in 1992 to head the 
Rock and Hall of Fame and Museum in Cleveland. His 
successor, Elaine King, returned to academia in 
November. Desmarais comes to the museum from the 
Robert Gumbiner Foundation for the Arts in Long Beach, 
Calif. He was director of the Laguna Art Museum. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 

searched from the air, Deputy Rich Erickson said. All the fugitives were wearing orange jail jumpsuits. · 
"How the inmates escaped is still under investigation," Hecht said. 
The Peter J. Pitchess Honor Rancho Facility, between the mountainous Angeles and Los Padres national forests 35 miles northwest of downtown Los Angeles, has 4,152 inmates. 
More than 100,000 people live just south in Santa Clarita. Small highway and farm communities dot the region. 
Robber Returns Stolen Money 
PORTLAND, Ore. 
First, he helped rip off $346,770 in one of the largest automated teller scams in the nation's history. Then, when he tried to return some of the loot, he was robbed. Not all went awry: The robber who robbed the robber was caught and the bag containing the $60,000 was recovered. "To say it sounds like a coincidence would be an understatement," said police spokesman C.W. Jensen. "After talking to the suspect, the detective felt confident that what happened was exactly what was said." David Gallagher and four accomplices used a stolen bank card to rob 48 ATM machines on Nov. 18. They were able to make 724 withdrawals on phony ATM deposits because a computer software problem at the Oregon Telco Credit Union removed the usual $200 daily limit on weekend withdrawals. Gallagher, who was on weekend release from jail, was confronted by a gunman Saturday as he headed to meet his lawyer to turn over some of the cash to the Secret Service as part of his plea bargain. The man took off with the money, tossing some of it into the air as he was cornered by patrons from a bar a block away. Justin Morris, 20, of'Milwaukee was charged with first-degree robbery, unlawful use of a weapon and pos­session of a controlled substance. Gallagher, 40, and the four other ATM robbers have pleaded guilty and face prison sentences ranging from 10 months to nearly four years, depending on prior convictions. They were identi­fied through ATM surveillance cameras. Sentencing was set for June 26. 
Greenpeace Occupies Oil Platform 
LONDON 
Greenpeace activists occupied an old North Sea oil plat­
form Sunday to stop it from being junked at sea. Four 
climbers used ropes and winches to scale the Brent Spar, 
118 miles northeast of the Shetland Islands. It is the first 
of the 400 North Sea oil platforms that are to be dumped 
at sea, with the government's permission. Police and 
Shell U.K. Exploration and Production, which owns the 
platform, were monitoring the situation. No one has been 
arrested. Greenpeace, which wants the platform dis­
mantled and removed, said the climbers have supplies 
for what is expected to be a long occupation on the plat­
form, 90 feet above the sea. The Greenpeace ship Moby 
Dick was standing by. Greenpeace said the Brent Spar 
contains over 100 tons of toxic sludge, including oil, 
arsenic, cadmium, PCBs and lead, plus more than 30 
tons of radioactive waste left over from oil drilling and 
storage operations. Shell defended its plans, saying in a 
statement that permission to dump the rig was granted 
"after a full evaluation of the technical, environmental, 
safety and cost factors." It made no mention of toxic 
materials. 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon. Monday, May 1. Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
............... ..&...A.. ............. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

PrBSSure 

H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STDRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUOY CLOUDY 
Graphics Lab Tech Tom Roland Jen Rezeli 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. VIa Associated Press Graph/csNet 
Atlanta  79  59  Dallas  80  60  New Orleans 87  59  
Baltimore 56  51  Denver  52  40  New York  57  48  
Boston  49  38  Los Angeles 76  60  Philadelphia 57  50  
Chicago  50  42  Miami  80  75  Phoenix 93  70  
Columbus 55  47  Minneapolis 63  44  St. Louis  57  49  

McAdams: 'Positive law' gram brings just prosecution •
wornes 

By MATIHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 
Transitional justice based on positive law in the unified Ger­many was the subject of a speech given by A. James McAdams in the Notre Dame Law School on Friday. 
In the Post-Cold War world, Germany holds a unique posi­tion amongst emerging democ­racies, according to McAdams, an associate professor of gov­ernment at the University of Notre Dame and a fellow in the Kellogg Institute. 
"rt is one of the only new democracies that has no fear of 

London  SU9  
Paris Frankfurt  $g39 $~  
Madrid  $319  

Tokyo $440 Rome $3g9 
f"'t~ore OJlt Wllf ~om Chl<a!!O based on rO\Ind trfl1 P<Xc:Mie. Ratrictlonl IlPPY, faxes not Included 1100 l•res subject to ch•ns• ond/or •v•ll~ty. 
~•. 
the former dictators regaining power,"said McAdams. 
He also said that there is no military powerful enough to control the country. This leads to large differences in how transitional justice is handled. 
"The ability of Germany to take action is not that great," said McAdams. "They must try not to have a 'victor's justice' and they also desire respect for the rule of law." 
This forces the courts to de­cide between two types of jus­tice. The appeal to a natural, universal law is the emotional choice which is both easy and satisfies the public demand for justice, according to McAdams. However, he said that this choice tends to ignore the due process by trying the dictators according to laws that were not in force in their countries at that time. 
"The courts must prosecute on the basis of positive law," said McAdams. Positive law in­dicates that the dictators should only be tried on their ability to follow the laws of their own country during the time that they are in power. 
According to McAdams, this approach is currently being used by tribunals in Germany. It is difficult and time consum­ing, but dispenses justice by the doctrine of "no crime without a law." 
He said that in many cases this can be very frustrating. It does not often satisfy the public ideal of justice. 
"However, I believe that jus­tice has been served," said McAdams. 
volunteers are required only to make as much of a commit­ment as they want it to be; it is 
a. way to become part of the Orientation '95 process. 
Volunteers are selected giv­ing ideas such as helping build lofts or heading the first trip to Orientation's Graffiti Dance. 
Heimann and Michaels t'eel a one-on-one relationship is im­portant in helping the first· year students adjust . "It's good to know that you can help out at least one freshman and make her orientation easier," said Heimann. 
Plans are to contact the freshmen during the summer so sisters will be assigned be­fore coming to school. 
~·~·······"' •.. "Big sister names should be 
··• on their doors as soon as they get there," said Michaels. The program is "pretty much a first semester thing." 

Yeltsin signs draft law but exempts 209,000 postgraduate students 
Associated Press say draft evasion in Russia is top academics and scientists, rampant, extends the length of agreed to exempt postgraduate MOSCOW military service from 1 1/2 students until they had finished President Boris Yeltsin signed years to 2 years and requires their training and defended a bill Sunday extending the most university students to their postgraduate projects. He 
draft, but softened the tough serve after graduation. also exempted college gradu­new law with a decree giving Before, college students had ates who go to work for the more than 209,000 postgradu­draft deferments and then went state in their chosen field. ate students and college grad­into the reserve officer ranks. uates an exemption this year. The new law would require The exemption applies only to them to serve for one year after the 1995 draft call, which af­The new draft law, long graduation. fects men born between 1968 sought by defense officials who Yeltsin, heeding pleas from and 1977. 


page4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, May 1, 1995 
activities will give the students son-Cann,'69, whose finances office, she doesn't know how an escape from studying for fi­stood between her and the edu­she should have made it
SMC Leaders
nals. cation she desperately wanted through some tough financial 
"Antostal is always a fun to continue after high school. and personal times," she said. 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1
week on both campuses, " said Fortunately , one of her favorite Garcia want on to pursue her 
Holy Cross Hall helped SMC­Sophomore Alex Fish. "I hope high school teachers was Ann master's degree at Harvard tostal by having a block party the weather will be in our favor alumnae of Saint Mary's contin­Korb, a Saint Mary's alum, University after graduating consisting of the campus on Monday so we can finish off ue to lead. according to Gorno. from Saint Mary's. Gorno quot­bands: Little Milton, Big Earl the festivities on a good note." Gorno offered the leadership After Korb brought Almira to ed Garcia as saying, "Harvard and Shady Elaine, on Haggar's Both campuses are invited to success stories of five Saint the college to meet with admin­University is no Saint Mary's Terrace. participate in today's events. Mary's alumnae, along with istrators, they were impressed College. You can't just stop by 
"The bands were great, " said The SMCtostal committee has their feelings on how Saint with her grades and with and talk to the professors. Zahm Junior Owen McCuen. "It worked hard to put the today's Mary's has contributed to the Almira herself. They offered They have time for you, but it's was nice to get off campus and activities together, and they are roles they play today. Peggy her a scholarship that day and limited and always scheduled. have something to do during hoping for a good showing of Hill Rosenkranz credits her col­later named her one of the Not many people know who you the week." people, according to Novak. lege experience with giving her prestigious Madeleva Scholars, are." 
Although Antostal and SMC­If the phrase SMCtostal will the confidence that she needed according to Gorno. Gorno went on to speak about tostal were not advertised as remain or if Antostal will to pursue and to obtain her law Wilson-Conn went on to earn the continuation of the Sesqui­much as in previous years.The return will depend on today's degrees. her Ph.D. in chemistry form centennial Campaign. She said Holy Cross Block party ap­activities and future Antostal "When she (Rosenkranz) took Columbia University and her that $15 million of the $30 mil­peared to be a suCC!JSS. Today's chair members. the law admission test at Notre medical degree from UCLA. lion goal has been raised to Dame in 1961, she was the only She also married and had two date. "This is not a campaign woman taking the test. Today, children while continuing her about bricks and mortar. This mortgage. more women go to law school studies.Wilson-Conn said that campaign is about developing
Habitat 
The club hopes to finish the than men," Gorno said. her only limit was how much the minds and the hearts of stu­house by the end of June. After pursuing her law career she wanted to learn, and Saint dents."
continued from page 1 
Some students will remain in and raising a family, Mary's provided that insight. The Campaign will seek fund­South Bend after classes end Rosenkranz produced David Currently she is an opthamolo­ing in six crucial areas, accord­1054-56 Burns Street , or on May 12 to finish the house. Mamet's Oleanna, which she gist in her own private practice. ing to Gorno. First, ten millionanother Habitat project. The The completion of the home is brought to Saint Mary's campus Gorno also spoke of Floy Ter­dollars worth of student schol­
family has been given the 
a milestone for the Notre Dame this past fall. "Peggy had come stegge Meagher, Class of 1943, arships will be funded. Sec­opportunity to pay for the home branch of Habitat for full circle-back to the place who "followed the tradition ondly, the campaigning willthrough a long-term no interest Humanity. where she had found the started by her grandmother­benefit the Center for Academic 
strength and the faith to move who was sent to Saint Mary's Innovation. Third, the cam­forward from her grief. This Academy as a 10-year old child paign is working to recognize
In fact, Kmiec noted the im­time it was her turn to give to to escape the ravages of the the work of faculty members by
Guns 
portance of government's re­Saint Mary's," Gorno said. Civil War." establishing faculty chairs togional sensitivity to variances in Gorno went on to speak about Lastly, Gorno highlighted which they can aspire.
continued from page 1 
crime. Barbara Patrick O'Toole, from Delia Garcia. According to The campaign also seeks toIn his opinion, the recent rul­the Class of 1959. O'Toole has
Regarding the most vocal cri­Gorno, Garcia talks powerfully raise funds to support the Cen­
ing will give individual commu­spent her entire career volun­
tique of the decision-that the about the confidence she ter for Spirituality. Next, the 
nities the power to design pro­
court was overriding Congress' teering as an attorney at the gained at Saint Mary's and campaign will enable the col­power to protect innocent grams which appropriately American Civil Liberties Union about the faculty members and lege to make purchases in In­teachers and students from the address the level of the gun (ACLU) due to her fervent belief administrators who served as formation Technology. And threat of guns-Kmiec said that control problem in their area. in the right of all people to free her mentors. "Without the sup­finnaly, the campaign is about
Kmiec said that "the statute speech in public forums. 
the decision showed that "we're port of Saint Mary's financial ~upporting the Annual Fund of 
was a very good one," but that She also spoke of Almira Wil­
only getting it closer to the peo­aid and multicultural affairs the college. 
it overstepped its authority. 
ple with this decision." 
~oaa ~klda~ ~Q~~ue h.MIIWA 
I 
IIARY SIMERI ·Owner 

~~~ ...1oon 
~ 

f) .~ 
'luexfa, _ 12.fKJ IJOOilio 5.fKJ pm. II ~ ,,1 c.L..
IC I, ll/eOI""""' !lfKJIJOOil!oJ.fKJpm. 
u 
'Jirur.Jay lifKJ llOOilloJ.tNJpm. 
Jn.ky 12.fKJIJOOilloJ.fK!p.m 
&Juday /O.fKJ IUJJ.!o 400 pm. 
'lJPlinlmenls '1ooila6/e 
"Our Lady on 
the Dome" As the river called "St. Joseph" flows softly towards its end it turns eastward at a city aptly named "South Bend" 'Twas here Fr. Sarin founded a 
university for the glory of God's reign he named it for "Our Mother" Notre Dame-Notre Dame 
...So begins a beautiful eight stanza poem that belongs in every fan's home and office. Suitable for framing, the tribute is bordered in blue and gold. 
The spirit of the University sin­cerely expressed -makes a cher­ished gift. 
Send personal check or money order to: 
Pat O'Block, P.O. Box 306, 
LaGrange, IL 60525 
Allow 10 days co 2 weeks for delivery.
r.----------------------,
1Name 1 
I -----------------.
:Address ________________: •c _______ state __ z·1p ---:•
: 1ty lNumber of poems@ 12.95* each __ _: : Total :
I -----1 
: $2.50 Total S&H ____ _: 
I I 
: Grand Total -----: :.*$1 .00 from. each saie will be donated to : 
I I
• the Notre Dame Scholarship Fund 1 
L----------------------~ 


Looking for a place to stay during: 
.... 1JL9Hf;nn~ft1ll'bnd?(.. c:R.!~~atUfli Weekend? (.. Weddings? (.. Home Football Games? Alumni Renting Out Historic Home For ND Special Events 
•Close 
to Campus (Just 2 miles Away!) 

•Safe 
Neighborhood 

•Competitive 
Rates 

•Fully 
Equiped Kitchen 

•University 
Club access 

•Summit 
Club access 

•5 
private suites w/ individual baths 

•
Accomodates up to 14 



Available to Show by Appointment Call Helenfor More Information @ 219 287-8163 
•

The ctence, Technology, and Values of the University of Notre Dame 
is pleased to announce that the following students have been selected as 
John J. Reilly Scholars 
in the Five Year Double Degree Program 
in Arts and Letters/Engineering 

Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 

.. Airfares  Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates.  
Low airfares to Europe.  
•Rail Passes  Rail Passes issued in our office1  
No service fee 1  
Tinwtablcs, prin·s, lickl'ts ,w,Jil,lbll'1  
•car Rentals  Discounted car rentals!  
Available in all European Countries!  
,.Experience  Over 20 years experience working with  
Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students  
and faculty travelling to Europe.  

We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus ­(219) 271-4880 
Class of 1996 

Joshua F. Briggs 
Matthew D. Foley 
Todd R. Schmidt Andrew M. Sebesta 

Monday, May 1, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 
The Observer 

Karate Chop! 
Students participate in Martial Arts Testing on Saturday at the Knute Rockne Memorial Buliding. 
page 5 

Dole: Medicare reform needs urgent attention 

Spy agency interrogator suspended in death of Palestinian prisoner 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

An interrogator for the Shin Bet spy agency was suspended Sunday after pathologists said a Palestinian prisoner was tor­tured to death last week, secu­rity sources and Israeli media reports said. 
·According to the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty, the suspension will remain in effect until the Justice Ministry completes its inquiry into the death Tuesday of Ab­del-Samad Harizat, 29. 
Harizat, from the West Bank town of Hebron, died four days after being detained for ques­tioning about possible plans by the Islamic radical group Hamas to attack Israelis. 
In an affidavit published Sun­day, pathologist Derrick Pounder of Scotland, who par­ticipated in Harizat's autopsy, said he died of "trauma to the brain" caused by "forceful jerking movements of the head" or "violent shaking." 
Pounder contradicted media reports that Harizat was beaten to death, suggesting he found no signs of direct blows to the head. 
By JIM ABRAMS Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole agreed Sunday with House Speaker Newt Gingrich that Congress and the administra­tion should give urgent consid­eration to Medicare reform, separate from the budget de­bate. 
Dole, R-Kan., speaking on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley," acknowledged that it would be difficult to craft a plan to balance the budget by 2002 without including cuts in Medicare. 
But with the federal health care plan for the elderly facing bankruptcy in the next decade, Dole said, "We're talking about preserving the integrity of this system and protecting this sys­tem. And we'd better do that very quickly." 
Senate and House Republi­cans have talked of trimming $250 billion to $300 billion from Medicare spending as part of the bills both chambers will produce over the coming weeks to balance the budget by 2002. 
But Gingrich, R-Ga., said Fri­day that Medicare should be separated from the budget pro­cess and asked President Clin­ton to come up with a Medicare reform proposal by May 15. Gingrich said his goal is to pass a bill by September to save the Medicare system. The White House so far has been non-
Ifyou see news happening, call The Observer 
committal. 
Dole said Clinton "has taken a walk on everything this year." He said Clinton had $118 billion in Medicare cuts in his health reform proposal last year, but "this year, he doesn't want to touch it because -or doesn't want to touch farm subsidies or anything else ­because 1996 is election year." 
Dole said there was enough bipartisan spirit in Congress to initiate real reform. "If people are concerned about Medicare, they better hope enough of us, in both parties, are willing to make the reforms necessary to preserve and protect the sys­tem." 
Dole won some support from Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Fi­nance Committee, who told ABC that Medicare should not be used as a means of balanc­ing the budget. 
"It is not long for this world at the present rate of the trust funds, and we have to attend to it, and we can," Moynihan said. On dealing with the budget without addressing Medicare, he said, "We got ourselves into this mess; we can get ourselves out of it." 
Gingrich said Republicans are looking at providing the elderly with numerous options, including staying with the cur­rent system, going on a vouch­er arrangement or letting peo­ple be responsible for their own bills. 

Scotch Printed Post-it Notes 

Great Value! 
Your Choice-99 cents 
The Hammes 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" Open Monday-Saturday 9am-5pm 
3M Innovation 





ND Boxes now Available .95 cents each 


3M Bubble Wrap 


-

page 6 Monday, May 1, 1995 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 
Clinton: U.S. embargo will cut Iranian trade 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
President Clinton said Sunday he will end U.S. trade and investment with Iran, denounc­ing Teheran "as inspiration and paymaster to terrorists" and urging Russia to scuttle an Iranian nuclear deal. 
"I am convinced that institut­ing a trade embargo with Iran is the most effective way our nation can help curb Iran's drive to acquire devastating weapons and support terrorist activities," Clinton said in a speech prepared for delivery Sunday night. 
The action, which White House officials concede could cost thousands of American jobs and cause a slight short­term increase in fuel prices, deprives U.S. companies and their subsidiaries of the lucra­tive Iranian oil market. It also will eliminate U.S. exports, which totaled $326 million in 1994. 
Clinton's plan was outlined in a speech prepared for the World Jewish Congress, an au­dience sensitive to Middle East terrorism: Aides said Clinton will sign an executive order later this week, acting under the Emergency Powers Act. 
They said Clinton will declare Iran's nuclear ambitions and support of terrorism a threat on the United States and Middle East peace. 
"To do nothing more as Iran continues its pursuit of nuclear weapons would be disastrous," Clinton said. "And to stand pat in the face of overwhelming ·ev­idence of Teheran's support for terrorists would threaten to darken the dawn of peace be­tween Israel and her neigh­bors." 
He also singled out Iraq and 
Libya as nation's that "hunger 
for nuclear and other weapons 
of mass destruction. Our policy 
toward these rogue states is 
simple: They must be con­
tained." 
.As part of a gradual heightening of Iranian sanc­tions, Clinton in March killed a $1 billion oil contract between Conoco and Iran. The executive 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad 
Smar' People Use Them! 
...the preferred shipping company at the most prestigious universities in the country! 
SHIP 
any package 
anywhere at a LOW COST 
Ri1Mililll¥i:ii 
TEL:S00-752-6773 FAX: 508-664-3722 EMAIL: cargo@delphi.com 
No size or wei1ht limits! 
order did not stop American companies from buying Iranian oil through foreign subsidiaries and selling it abroad. 
Clinton· said his latest order would close that $3.5 billion loophole, as well as prohibit trade and U.S. investment with Iran -closing off Iran to U.S. private sector business. 
Edgar M. Bronfman, honored Sunday by the World Jewish Congress, is a board member at Dupont, which owns Conoco. His family pressed Conoco to scuttle the Iranian deal -even before Clinton killed it. 
Clinton unveiled the plan hours after attending a cere­mony for 6,000 Holocaust sur­vivors where he reminded Americans that hatred still lurks and urging them to "stand against new forms of organized evil," as witnessed in the Oklahoma City bombing. 
A week before leaving for his Moscow summit, Clinton hopes the action will pressure Russian President Boris Yeltsin to cancel a "profoundly dis­turbing" contract to help Iran in the construction of a nuclear reactor complex near the Persian Gulf. 
"If we are to succeed in get­ting other countries to make sacrifices in order to change Iran's behavior, we, too, must be willing to sacrifice," Clinton said. 
The president said he will urge Yeltsin and other allies to take similar steps against Iran. He will make the pitch in Moscow, and again in June when leaders of the world's leading industrial nations gath­er in Canada. China, too, is considering a nuclear deal with Iran. 
An administration official, 
briefing reporters on condition 
of anonymity, said "a few thou­
sand" jobs will be lost as a re­
sult of the order." 
The official said short-term oil prices will be affected by the order. Conceding that compa­nies from other nations will jump in to fill the oil-market void, the official said long-term prices won't be effected be­cause the fuel "will fmd its way to market in some form." 
Questions cloud investigation 
Detectives search for clues to the Oklahoma City bombing puzzle 
By FRED BAYLES 
Associated Press 

OKlAHOMA CITY 
Was Timothy McVeigh alone in Oklahoma City? Was he there with John Doe 2? Or were there more like-minded ex­tremists involved in the bomb­ing of the federal building? 
Competing theories on the shape and size of the bombing conspiracy seem to rise and fall daily as investigators try to place sometimes ill-fitting pieces of the puzzle into a co­herent picture. 
With each new revelation comes more questions and more seeming contradictions. 
A senior federal official in­volved in the investigation told The Associated Press such frus­trations are nothing new to such cases. 
"The problem for you guys (in the media) and the public is you want it all to make sense each day," he said. "Cops learn in their first few years on the job that every case they ever investigate is going to have some things that are totally un­explainable." 
An example: the 1977 yellow Mercury Marquis that McVeigh bought on April 14th in Junc­tion City, Kan. 
The used car has become a touchstone for various theories about McVeigh's movements, the possibility of a second get­away car, or a scenario that has McVeigh setting off the bomb himself, then fleeing in the previously positioned Mercury. 
McVeigh was arrested in the car as he sped north from Ok­lahoma City about 7 5 minutes 
Notte Dame C[~b of No11th je1rsey and SARG 
present 

for items not picked up by 2 pm on May 27, 1995. 
l'<"l': :--1 ') pn~uitL·d,L', :\() Bo,, l'rinln, Bn,L·,J ·r.,hlc-l.<illlJ' 
'"'2l) pn Trunk, ~ll'I'L'll, l'lllllJ'llil'r, ~m;dl h·i,lgL', Flllnr l.;~mp ....,2 ') pn Bih, \ll',liunl l·ridgl', l{u:.,:' .:--)l) pn lkd, L1 rgl' I· ridgl' 
.-\llllthn itL'Ill' J'l'i,·l'Ll h;i'l'd llll rl'latin· ":l'. 
Student Coordinator: Russ Williams '97 (219) 634-4107 Alumni Coordinator: Doon Wintz '85 (201) 267-3800 (day) 
is a $5 discount per item for students whose parents are paying dues to the Notre Dame Club of North Jersey, Membership forms will be available at the pick-up on August 20. Membership is $25/year and entitles you to all club mailings and quar­terly newsletters and helps us support summer service projects, student scholarships, various community service activities and much 
Club, Quark North American, and the student coordinators cannot be responsible for lost, damaged, or unclaimed items. Insurance will not be available beyound the standard $60/pound. We do have a large 48 foot professional moving van, but articles will be accepted on a space available basis, first come, first served so try to arrive early. If there are any profits from this venture, they will be deposited in the University's scholarship fund. 


after the blast. The senior fed­eral official said a note found in the car read: "Not abandoned. Battery cable problem. Will be back to pick it up." 
The note also included a date, which was not revealed. 
Officials are trying to fit this with another puzzle piece: Why did McVeigh have his friend Terry Nichols pick him up in Oklahoma City and drive him back to Junction City two days before the bombing? 
Nichols told the FBI McVeigh called him on April 16; the two returned to Junction City early on April 17, the day McVeigh is believed to have rented the Ry­der truck with a man investiga­tors identify as John Doe 2. 
The owner of the Dreamland Motel, the Junction City motel where McVeigh was registered from April 14-17, reported see­ing the Mercury when McVeigh checked in. Within a few days the Mercury was gone, she said, replaced by the truck. 
Does this all add up to the possibility McVeigh parked the car with its note in Oklahoma 

April 22: An FBI search of ·· the Nichols' home uncowrs . · bags of ammooium nillate, 
mixing barmls, a fuel meter, blasting caps-all ingredients lor the type ol bomb used in Oklahoma City. 
April 22·23: FBI Agents 
check a storage shed rented 
by McVeigh. Tracks there 
have been reported to match 
the kind of tires Ryder uses 
on its trucks. 
AP City, returned to Junction City with Nichols, then drove down to Oklahoma City alone in the rental truck, detonated the bomb and escaped in the Mer­cury? 
The federal official said the scenario is one of several being explored. 
"It's absolutely possible, physically, for one man to have detonated it," he said. 
But there are problems with this theory. 
Investigators say McVeigh would have taken a big risk by leaving the car on the street for three nights. The surveillance camera in an automatic teller machine across from the fed­eral building captured images of the Ryder truck, several in­dividuals and a possible second getaway car with Arizona li­cense plates. 
At least one witness says he saw two men driving the truck shortly before the explosion. 
The federal official said such contradictory bits of informa­tion can muddy a clear picture of what happened. 

Kirchners win custody battle for Baby Richard 
By MIKE ROBINSON 
fusociatcd Press 
SCHAUMBUHG, Jll. 

A boy at the center of a four-year custody battle was taken sobbing and whimper· lng from his adoptive parents Sunday by the mother who had given him up and the fathor he had never met. 
Biological parents Otakar and Daniela Kirchner picked up the 4-year-old boy, identi­fied in court records only as Baby Hichard, from the adop­tive pare~ts' house in subur­ban Chicago. 
The child cried, whimpered and reached out to his adop­tive mother repeatedly as his adoptive father turned him over to the Kirchners in front of the house where the boy had lived since he was 4 days old. 
Many in a crowd of about 200 neighbors cried as the boy was driven away in a van and driven to his new home. nlso in suburban Chicngo, with a stop first at McDonald's. 
Some called out "monster" at the Kirchners, who met with the boy and his adoptive parents for about an hour before taking him away. About a dozen police officers stood by. 
. The transfer capped a legal fight that has involved the governor, the General Assembly and judges all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court. 
The state Supreme Court granted Kirchner custody in•.•• J_anuary, _ruling that the adop"ii!' 
tlon was 1llegal because Kirch., · ner had been told by the boy's mother that the child was born dead. He had fought for his son ever since learning the 
truth, when the child was ~,~;;::, days old. . ii:~ 
The prolonged court battle over Baby Richard, like that . over Baby Jessica, prompted · Americans to re-evaluate adoption laws in light of the best interests of the child and ' the rights of the biological: father. 
Richard's teary departure from his adoptive home mir­rored that of Jessica, the 2· year-old returned to her birth . parents by order of the U.S;} Supreme Court. In both cases, · the child was put up for adop­tion even though the father had not surrendered his parental rights, 
Last year, Gov. Jim Edgar sided with the adoptive cou" ple, warning that Richard would be "brutally, tragically torn away from the only par­ents he has ever known." 
Kirchner had said he want­ed a gradual transfer of cus­tody to make it easier on the child, but talks broke down with the adoptive parents, known in court papers as Jane and John Doe. 
By TERRENCE PETTY 
A.sociated Press 
DACHAU, Germany 

On a killing ground where Nazi SS men murdered inmates for 12 years, survivors and their GI rescuers solemnly marked the 50th anniversary Sunday of the liberation of Nazi Germany's first concentration camp. 
During prayer services and speeches in a steady rain, they said fascism's crimes must never be repeated, its victims never forgotten. 
"Never again fascism, never again war, never again Dachau," said Max Mannheimer, a 75-year-old Czech-born Jew who survived the camp. 
Over 30,000 inmates died here -murdered, worked to death, or simply allowed to suc­cumb to disease. When U.S. Army units of the 42nd In­fantry, the Rainbow Division, liberated the camp, they found railcars full of corpses and bod­ies stacked like cordwood out­side the crematorium because the SS had run out of coal to burn them. 
Some 2,000 people from at least 16 countries -survivors and their families -returned for the half-century anniversary along with 95 U.S. veterans and their family members. They were hosted by the Bavarian state government and activists who believe in keeping alive the memory of wartime atrocities. 
Sheltering themselves with umbrellas, a column of sur­vivors walked past watch­towers, the former site of the medical experiment building, 
Dachau survivors celebrate 
and now-vacant plots where filthy barracks had stood. 
The procession moved past sites where guard dogs ripped prisoners apart and past the moat surrounding the camp where others were shot dead. 
The survivors went to the cre­matorium, where SS guards hanged prisoners from hooks and then threw them into the ovens. 
The head of Germany's Jewish community, Ignatz Bu­bis, thanked the American lib­erators of Dachau. Among the camp's survivors was the woman who would become his wife. 
"We bitterly resent those whose arrogance imposed their evil on humanity," said John McGovern of Toledo, Ohio, president of the 42nd Rainbow Division Veterans Association. The veterans' group, he added, distinguished clearly between the Nazi war criminals and today's democratic Germany. 
"It is only by being aware of past excesses and usurpation of individual rights, vividly demonstrated by 12 years of barbarism at Dachau, that the ever-present threats to your own liberty can be thwarted," McGovern said. 
Bavarian state Gov. Edmund Stoiber told the survivors and several thousand Germans, "I feel ashamed that the crimes against those people were per­petrated by and in the name of Germans." 
Adolf Hitler's political oppo­nents were the first to be marched through Dachau's gates on March 22, 1933, a few weeks after he came to power. They were followed by clergy­men, the handicapped, homo­sexuals, Jews, Gypsies, resis­tance fighters and POWs. 
Mannheimer, a painter living in Munich, called the Dachau camp a "school for killing peo­ple" that "trained the majority of future commandants of the many camps of the Third Reich and the countries it occupied." 
Dachau's trail, Mannheimer said, led to "Auschwitz, Majdanek and Treblinka," where millions of European Jews were gassed. 
The Dachau camp barracks were torn down, but one was rebuilt after the war as a dis­play for visitors. 
An 80-year-old former Belgian resistance fighter, wearing the striped cloth hat he wore as a Dachau inmate, sat leaning on his cane inside the building, lost in thought. 
"I came back to mourn others in my resistance group who died in this camp. They were all brave men," said Emil Crappe. 
A total of 1,106 Catholic priests, mostly Poles, perished and were cremated at Dachau, making it the largest cemetery for priests in the world, said Cardinal Friedrich Wetter of Munich. Two of the priests were canonized. 
At a Mass, Wetter said that on Good Friday in 1943, an SS man at Dachau whipped a priest with a piece of barbed wire, then wrapped it around the priest's head, shouting, "Did you know that Christ died today?" 
Recycle The Obser.,er 
IIliiIIar's(R) 4•45. 7•45. 10:10 lioltfrtbie(G) 4:15,6ll,B:ll \WeYooWtre ~(PG) 500,7:15, 931 Vllagelthi~R) 4ll,700,9:15 llllllrfllaf(PG13)5:15,731,9:45 KBslt~) 5:15, 7::JJ, 10:00 
SUISmally(PG13) 5:00, 7:15, 9:30 Jellerson In Paris (PG13) 4:00, 7:00, 10:00 .Illy Duty(PG13) 5:15,7:30,9:45 




a sort ofplay 
by A.R. Gurney A Faculty Recital Featuring Katie Sullivan Mike D. Morris 
Thursday and Friday, May 4 and 5, 8 p.m. Moreau Center/Little Theatre Admission Free 
. ift--­

Depanmenl or Communication, 
Samt Mary's Colle~ 

Dance &.lbeatre NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 

ATTENTION COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION SOPHOMORES 
May 3d Class of 96 Cookout 4:30 -7 at Stonehenge COME JOIN THE JUNIOR CLASS FOR FREE BURGERS, CHIPS, AND SODA WITH YOUR STUDENT I.D. 
TWEAK AND THE ROAD APPLES WILL BE PLAYING. THIS WILL BE THE ROAD APPLES 
If you are interested in serving on the College of Business Administration College Council please submit your resume to Assistant Dean sam Gaglio, Room 132 Hayes-Healy Center, no later than May 3, 1995. 
FINAL PERFORMANCE AT NOTRE DAME! 
If you need more information call 63 1-6602. 


..---------------------­
pageS The Observer • NEWS 
Rabin okays land confiscation 
By ARIEH O'SULLIVAN Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin told the Cabinet Sunday that he had personally approved plans to confiscate Arab-owned land in Jerusalem to make way for construction of two Jewish neighborhoods, Israeli radio said. 
Palestinian leaders reacted angrily to the plans, announced quietly in a government publi­cation last week. They warned the confiscations could harm the delicate Israel-PLO talks on extending the 11-month-old Gaza-Jericho autonomy to more of the West Bank. 
One hundred and forty acres in two areas of East Jerusalem, near the Beit Hanina and Beit Safafa villages, are to be seized so that houses and a police sta­ti(m can built. 
A government committee also gave the go-ahead for con­struction to begin at a third site, Har Homa, between Jerusalem and Bethlehem. Construction there was approved in principle in January. 
The Islamic fundamentalist group Hamas on Sunday re­sponded with threats of more attacks against Israelis. 
"There must be a severe con­frontation against the policy of land confiscation by the esca­lation ... of blows to the occupa­tion troops and the settler thugs," said a Hamas leaflet sent to The Associated Press. 
Hamas said the "weakness" of Yasser Arafat's self-rule gov­ernment was partly to blame for the appropriation and called 

•1111 llllllllll12:55,3:20,5:40,8:00,10:20 •ftrral GlljPG) 1:00,4:00,7:111,10:00 •llallra c...m1:28,4:15,7:11,10:10 •DICI'lPG·13l1:05,3:3UiD.B:IIIi,10:25 •Cftllll fi'IIIII(Pil-13) 1:38,4:Z0,7:20,8:50 •IIIII J• ~MII'CO(Pil-13} 12:50,3:10,5:30,7:45,10:05 

PlyalPG-13) I:ID,t25,5:45,7:55,10:15 Weibg(ll) 1:35,4:10.7:115,8:45 TIII(PG) 1:Z5.3:35.l15 •Emlb(ll) 7:40,8:55 •PIIIIU 11111111 -~ 1:15.3:05,5:00 Tile MtBiea ot King George(PG-13) 7:15,8:40 
S1 7o ALL SEATS l:!lfOiiE 6 Pl.l*110 PhSSb SUI>ln$AI'tRS f1C.CEPTEO 


Summer Internships: VECTOR INTERNATIONAL 
is accep~ng applications for summer openings at 2851ocations across the U.S. All majors Freshman-Senior. Scholarships availablel 6 prelious scholarships awarded b Notre Dame Studentsl For Information Contact 
SOUTH BEND 282-2357 • FORT WAYNE 471-6133 BLOOMINGTQ\J 349-4034 • lAFAYETTE 447-1812 MUNCIE 289-7345 •INDIANAPOUS 767-5416 EYANSVIUE 474-5722 • MERRillVIUE 769-2352 
a one-day general strike in the West Bank and Gaza Strip for Monday. 
Arab League foreign minis­ters will hold an emergency meeting in Cairo, Egypt, on Saturday to discuss the land confiscation, Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa said Sun­day. 
In a statement, the organiza­tion warned the confiscations would "blow up the peace pro­cess." 
Asked why Israel shouldn't let Palestinians build on the land, Rabin replied that he didn't approve of mixed neigh­borhoods, Israel TV said. 
According to Israeli televi­sion, Rabin said that just as he objected to the dozens of Israelis moving into the Muslim quarter of the old walled city, "I don't want Arabs in Gilo or Ramot," the two Jewish areas bordering the proposed build­ing sites. 
Reports added that Rabin promised to investigate the pos­sibility of alloting other land to Jerusalem Arabs for con­struction. 
Jerusalem is the most explo­sive issue in the Israeli-Pales­tinian peace process, with both sides claiming the city as a political and religious capital. East Jerusalem, which Israel occupied and annexed in 1967, contains sites holy to Jews, Muslims and Christians. 
ljj~~·--~lil 
if you are planning to 
VOLUNTEER 
next year 
MI.~~::n_ -..p ,....-.oda.,y a.,-t -tb..e UMU :ro:r -t:l1e 
VOLUNTEER SEND-OFF 
10:00 May 19th (before graduation) for the recognition you deservef 
Jews now outnumber Arabs in the sector by 160,000 to 155,000. Negotiations on the fi­nal status of Jerusalem are to begin by 1996. 
Leaders of the Meretz Party, Rabin's dovish coalition part­ner, said the prime minister promised them that concrete details of plans to build housing for Jerusalem Arabs would soon be presented to the Cabi­net. 
"For 20 years they say they were also building for (Arabs) but in fact they confiscate their land and build only for Jews," said Communications Minister Shulamit Aloni. "We are op­posed to confiscating land from Arabs in Jerusalem and any­where else." 
Energy Minister Gonen Segev backed the plans as a way to solve the housing shortage fac­ing the ultra-Orthodox Jewish community. 
"Being sensitive is a good thing, but you can't live on sen­sitivity," Segev said. "There is a real housing crisis." 
Meanwhile, Israel announced it would seal off the West Bank and Gaza beginning at midnight Tuesday to prevent attacks dur­ing the four-day celebration of Independence Day. 
The ban on Palestinians en­tering the country will be lifted on Saturday night, a police statement said. Israel marks the 47th anniversary of its in­dependence Thursday. 
Prof. Jimmy Gunde 
N.D. Law School speaks on 
"Racism and the 
O.J. Simpson Case" Tuesday, May 2 
7:00p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
Monday, May 1, 1995 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 

And You Would Be .... 
Comedian David Spade entertains a crowd at Stepan Center during his performance on Saturday night. 

Papers and Finals got you 
down~ 

Find a place to unwind at the 
Night Oak 

Finals Week  
May 7-11, 1995  
FREE  7:00 pm  -2:00am  FREE  
Coffee  Popcorn  
DOUBLE  
Nightly Specials  

CAMPUSES 
Monday, May 1, 1995 page 9 
Large schools use phone registration 
By TIM GREEN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's infamous DART system of class registration has caused many a headache among Notre Dame students through the years. The system was designed to increase the efficiency of the registration process, and still, the headaches persist. Notre Dame is a relatively small school, however, and the scope of the process is much smaller here than at larger universities. Class registration is a much more immense undertaking at those public schools with sub­stantially more students. 
The University of California at Berkeley uses a computer­ized phone-in registration simi­lar to DArn. but on a much larger scale. The system is known as "TeleBears," named after the "Golden Bears" mas­cot, and serves the University's 30,000 students. 
Hisa Goldberg, a sophomore features editor at the Berkeley student newspaper, spoke about the TeleBears system. 
"It [TeleBearsl is easy to use, and set up in a two-phase sys­tem, and because of this you 
almost always get the classes you want." 
To register with TeleBears. Berkeley students dial in at cer­tain designated times over a two-month period to sign up for priority classes. There is also a second phase of class adjust­ments that takes place a few months later. 
A related service that the uni­versity offers is a phone-in in­formation system, known as "lnfoBears." "With InfoBears, you can call and find out about class sizes, waiting lists, and even personal information about scheduling and financial aid. It helps you to make your decisions about classes," Goldberg explained. 
Goldberg spoke very highly of the Berkeley registration sys­tem. "It works really well, and everyone is usually pretty happy with the classes they get." 
This year at the University of Michigan, a phone-in registra­tion system has just been in­stalled. The system works in the same way as DART, with students dialing in at desig­nated times and entering lD numbers and class codes to register for the classes that they have selected. 
However, the assignment of call-in times at Michigan is "achievement-based" rather than being based on academic year. The times are deter­mined by the number of credits a student has. The credit amounts are placed into certain "groupings," from zero to 25, from 25 to 41, and so forth. The groupings with more cred­its receive higher registration priority, and within the group­ings, the times assigned are random. 
Stacie Perkins, a sophomore at Michigan, commented on the new system that was piloted last semester and put into effect for the fall 1995 registra­tion, "It's pretty easy to use once you figure it out. It's hard to say much at this point-the system is brand-new." 
Perkins also said that despite any problems students may find with the system, it is still much better than the "old way" of registration at Michigan. 
"[The phone system] defi­nitely beats getting up at around 8 am to spend hours waiting in some line to find out that you can't get any of the classes you want." 
Students given registration options 
By KELLY MOORE 
News Writer 
With no enrollment limits and an opportunity to shop for classes, and a smaller student body and reserved spots in closed classes, students at Har­vard University and the Uni­versity of Portland have a greater ease in registering for and finding room in the classes that they need and want than do students at many other schools. 
Students at Harvard Univer­sity do not register for classes until the fall of that school year. The first week of classes is a shopping period, during which students can attend any classes they choose. At the end of the week, they file a scant­ron-like study card with the classes that they have chosen. 
However. if too many stu­dents express an interest in one class, a lottery must be held to determine which students will be allowed to enroll in the course. 
With such a system, closed classes are not a frequent prob­lem that students encounter at Harvard. 
"Ninety-five percent of the classes have no enrollment limit so most students can get the classes they want," said Joe Maruca, assistant registrar at Harvard. 
The main drawback of Har­vard's registration process is the long lines in which students must wait to pick up their registration packets before the shopping period. 
With a student body of 2,600, the University of Portland is able to make the registration process more personal for its students. 
During a pre-registration pe­riod, students meet with their advisors to fill out a form with their class choices. Students then bring this form to the Of­fice of the Registrar at an ap­pointed time. 
Seniors have the first ap­pointment times and sopho­mores and juniors divide the rest. 
If a student is closed out of a class, he or she can go to a chairman or dean of the de­partment who might let the stu­dent into the class or place him or her on a waiting list. 
Students usually have no problem graduating in four years. If a senior is short one requirement because he or she could not enroll in a certain class, the departments can override the requirement or al­low another course to complete the requirement. 
Assistant registrar, Eric Tuomi, said in the two years that he has worked in registra­tion, "Students not graduating in four years has not been a big issue." 

• CAMPUS BRIEFS 
Stanford decides Students protest Illinois students not to boycott Uncoln president denounce mascot 

To protest a ''lack of commu~ ~tudents at the University of
grapes 

nication" between students and Ulin6is met to showtheir disap•
In response to a protest by 
the school's president, students prova.l of the school's mascot,
the Chicano/Latino student 
at Lincoln University formed a Chief. JIHniwek which theygroup at Stanford University blockade at the four entrances claim has racist implications:
requesting a university-wide to the schoo~. Native American artist and·
boycott of grapes, the Stanford 
The protest prevented any activist Charlene Teters who
administration decided that it employees from entering the spoke at the meeting said thatwould not support the boycott campus, as the majority of the a recent dance done on theand that individual residences 
school's 1,200 students stand~ football field in imitation of
and administrative units would 
ing shoulder-to shoulder to Native American ritual left herbe allowed themselves to 
block access to the campus. disconcerted. · decide if they wished to boy· 
Students refused to end their ''indirectly; that is what 
eott. 
protest without direct commu• [Native Americans] were feel·
Last year, students partici· nication with President Niara ing·•that we did not belong,"
paled in a hunger strike to 
Sudarkasa. Teterssaid. 
protest the harmful practices "We have no interaction with Another guest speaker and
employed in the production 
our president and that's where activist, Michael Haney saidand distribution of grapes on everythinig hinges," said one that he has filed a humanChicano and Latino workers. 
student who refused identifica· rights complaint against theIn the statement rejecting the tion. school for the use of its chief
boycott,· the administration 
Conditions in "roach·infested symbol, yet authorities lacked
stated that such an act would 
and rat infested" dormitories juiisdiction to deal with the
be inappropriate because the 
and the administration's charge.
university does not wish to get refusal to contract out house· The university has. thus farinvolved in the political issue of 
keepers were a primary point resisted efforts to have the 
grape farming practices. 
of protest. l:nascotchanged. 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
Associate News Editor 
DART. The word itself sends Notre Dame students into groans and depression, know­ing that it will mean long amounts of time on the phone, listening to a monotone, uncar­ing voice and praying not to hear the three electronic moans of rejection. 
The frustration with DART is founded in many areas, accord­ing to the deans and registrars who study the patterns and final results of students regis­tration, mainly based upon the class times and the professors teaching. 
Deans in the College of Arts and Letters observed that stu­dents regularly look for favor­able class times, which limits their amount of favored classes. "Usually classes between 9:30 am and 3:30 pm are filled much more rapidly (by stu­dents)," said Assistant Dean Kimberly Flint-Hamilton and Preacher, "so students can indeed get classes they need, just not at the time they want." 
Special problems arise in the College of Arts and Letters, however, because Arts and Letters departments offer the courses to fulfill University requirements. 
Since all students, regardless of major, must take these courses. and unlike other col­leges, affected arts and letters departments must offer more courses than necessary for stu­dents majoring in that field. 
The time at which a student may DART, also the cause of frustration for those with times late in the registration process, is chosen by a special program which assigns each student a number by random. The stu­dents are then sorted by their assigned number and divided by class, according to Assistant Registrar Pamela Johnson, who supervises DART. And accord­ing to Assistant Registrar Don Steinke, "In a study done over the past four years, only 15 stu­dents received appointment times on the first day of DARTing all six semesters, and only 20 people received appointment times on the last day all six times." 
The DART system at Notre Dame is a major improvement, Johnson said, over the former "arena-style" system of regis­tering which was discontinued in 1989. 
Students can pick their class­es in less than fifteen minutes without having to stand in any long lines. 
They also have the option to drop or add classes after the appointment period is over, throughout the summer, and up until the first 7 classes in the fall. In the former system, students were given a card by the Office of the Registrar, and then went to various locations on campus to acquire the prop­er stamp for a class by the sponsoring department. 
"Students were getting physi­cally hurt in the old system. (They) would line up outside of doors with glass, and when the doors opened, students were pushed through the glass," Johnson said. 
"I've never seen the situation in which a student needed a requirement waived (in order to graduate) or denied gradua­tion because they were unable to get into the course," stated Associate Dean Dian Murray. 
In order to make it easier to get classes, Preacher noted that the Warlick Report, a University commissioned report, advised that 100 new faculty be hired over the next several years. The Colloquy for the Year 2000 also encouraged the hiring of more faculty to increase the availability of classes. 
When asked if there was enough classroom space for 100 new faculty to teach in, Preacher, hesitating, said, "You've hit on a sensitive issue. Yes, there will be enough space, but its an issue that's being looked at closely." 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MAR.v's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager .......................Ryan Malayter Sports Editor· ...•......................... Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, le((ers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• WiNTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
--------------., 
Monday, May 1, 1995 


Having hope amidst poverty, crime and violence 
In his 1988 inaugural address, George Bush introduced what will undoubtedly be his most enduring-and perhaps only-rhetorical legacy when he called for "a thousand points of light." Though initially widely mocked and dismissed as just so much Peggy Noonan-penned fluff, the former president's plea for a more compassionate, giving and charita­ble society has taken on a new urgency in the face of the imminent restructuring 
Chris Kratovil 


and reduction of the Federal welfare system and its related bureaucracy. So rather than dedicating my last column of this year to settling scores and/or pursu­ing certain personal vendettas, I would like to use this forum to bring attention to what is undoubtedly one of the bright­est "points of light" here in Northern Indiana, or any where else for that mat­ter. 
A little over two years ago, Jim Langford, the director of the University of Notre Dame Press for the last 20 years and a concurrent assistant profes­sor in the College of Arts and Letters, read Alex Kotlowicz's powerful book, There Are No Children Here, about growing up in the Chicago public hous­ing projects. As every A&L student who has been through Core class knows, There Are No Children Here describes in detail the desperate lives led by two preadolescent boys living in one of Chicago's innumerable high rise pro­jects. These children are beset on all sides by danger, ranging from broken families and physical want, to gangs, drugs and stray bullets. The normal care-free activities that characterize the lives of most children are rendered impossible in such an environment, and the joy inherent in childhood is drained day by desperate day. Hope becomes inconceivable and a vicious cycle of poverty, crime and violence is created. 
Rather than being intimidated or feel­ing overwhelmed by the horrors pre­sented in There Are No Children Here, Jim Langford and his wife Jill decided to use what resources they had to combat this growing blight on our society. Having raised two boys to adulthood and recently adopting two young biracial children, the Langfords had obvious experience with and love for children. When combined with the sixteen acres of mostly wooded land in Lakeville (a town just south of South Bend) on which the Langford home rests, an idea began to take shape. 
One of the most moving passages in Kotlowicz's book describes how the younger of the two inner city children, that the narrative is focused on, would go to a small, bleak patch of grass along some railroad tracks when he felt the need for peace. This description has a pitiful quality to it, as some barren field lost amid an urban nightmare landscape represents the only contact with nature available to this boy. 
This lack of access to nature was one aspect of the tragedy of urban youth that the Langford's felt they could com­bat. So slightly over a year ago they decided to build a program, called There Are Children Here, in which they would open their home and grounds to disad­vantaged children. By providing under­privileged youths with a place to come and play in peace, the Langfords hoped to grant at least one day of traditional childhood play and joy to these kids. Jim Langford is realistic enough to realize that this one day spent in the harmony of the Indiana woods will not necessarily represent a fundamental turning point in the lives of these kids, but it will undeniably give them a few good memo­ries and experiences that they could not otherwise acquire. 
Showing children kindness, while per­haps the single most worthy action a person can engage in, is not the only goal the Langfords have for their There Are Children Here program. It is their hope that There Are Children Here will become a focal point for community involvement by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students and that these student volunteers will be left with a deeper realization of the desperate problems found in our urban areas and will come to understand the importance of "fostering our children." Finally, the Langfords hope that this fundamentally community-based effort can stand as "a powerful symbol of the readiness of pri­vate citizens to devote their energy and resources to a battle that society cannot afford to lose." 
'This lack of access to 
nature was one aspect of the tragedy of urban youth that the Langford's felt they could combat. So slightly over a year ago they decided to build a program, called There Are Children Here, in which they would open their home and grounds to disadvantaged children.' 
There Are Children Here is off to a solid start. Working through various organizations, including the Boys and Girls Clubs, Open Door and Head-Start programs, to identify and invite chil­dren, several groups of kids have already been out to the property. A board of directors, including Nobel-lau­reate Elie Wiesel and Chicago Bears star Chris Zorich, exists. An open house was held the Saturday before Easter, with Congressman Tim Roemer and several other local officials among the many in attendance. Donations from both the local community and certain companies have begun to come in. There Are Children }lere has secured not-for-profit corporation status and the zoning on the Langford property has been successfully changed to accommodate the program. Professor Langford has been gratified to see "what started out as my dream, become the dream for a lot of other peo­ple." 
However, the program is still in its infancy and significant needs still exist. Certain facilities to add to the overall experience enjoyed by the children are still hoped for, including a club house, ball field and basketball court. Nature trails are being constructed. A fund for operating expenses is gradually being established, and so There Are Children Here is eager for any donation "from a dollar to an endowment." 
There Are Children Here represents something of critical importance to this country; private individuals working for the betterment of society on their own initiative without government interven­tion or funding. What's more, the Langford's are trying to address a prob­lem at its source rather than by treating its symptoms. They and There Are No Children Here are in a battle for the preservation of the innocence and hope of children, and I, for one, can not think of a more important fight. It is my sin­cere hope that the Notre Dame commu­nity will choose to rally behind one of its own in this noble effort. 
On a personal note, this is my last col­umn of the 1994-95 school year. I'd like to thank all those that have read my work over the preceding eight months and, especially, those of you who have taken the time to respond to it via e­mail, phone calls, or letters. I look for­ward to exchanging observations and ideas with you all again next year. 
Chris Kratovil's column appears every other Monday. His e-mail address is: Christopher.D.Kratovi/.1 @nd. edu 

• DOONESBURY 
50 ll!ll YOU FINAUY 667" 8./J. Off lOA {)(X7DR7 
I 

GARRY TRUDEAU  
I JU5T K&PT BUGGING HIM UNTI/... H& FINAUY AGR8£W 70 GO /XJIUN TO 7H& V.A. HOP/TAL--... "'  ... ACHINGJOIN75/ NIGHT 5WCAT5, BLURRY VI510N, M&MORY tosS, /TCHIN6, FA­T/GUt, FLA5H&5... I  

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Words are a form of action, capable of influ­encing change. Their articula­tion represents a complete lived experience." 
-Ingrid Bengis 


ACCENT
Monday, May 1, 1995 page 11 
• AT THE MOVIES WITH fATMAN AND DADDY 
iRADIO' DESTINED TO FLOP 

"Destiny Turns on the Radio" 
(out of four) 
* 

N
ormally we would give a plot summary here­but this film has no plot. The only thing worth saying about it is that Quentin Tarantino plays 
·a small role in this film which has something to do with a godlike man messing around with an escaped con, a singer, and the guy who played Booger in ·nevenge ofthe Nerds.· 
Photo courtesy of Tri-Star Pictures 

James Belushi appears with Quentin Tarantino in "Destiny Turns on the Radio." 
Fatman: An old adage says that the journey is more important than the arrival. Fatman and Daddy have seen things that would make normal mortals shrivel into rotten masses of meat in our long adven­tures through local movie theaters. And so in this, the arrival, we ventured to the local cinema for one last encounter with destiny-Johnny Destiny, that is. 
Excited to conclude the year, Daddy and I swag­gered like true, macho movie critics into the theater. "Destiny Turns on the Radio" looked to have po­tential. Stylish film director-turned-cinematic idol Quentin Tarantino appears in the movie along with the cute and lovable Jim Belushi. This dynamic combo was supposed to be the closest thing to a for­mula for success since Christopher Reeves donned his red cape and tights for a spectacular fourth time. But whatever think tank worked on this dookie's screen play needs to be terminated with extreme prejudice. When trying to put a film together, it is usually a pru­dent idea to develop a story line. Unfortunately, in "Destiny Turns on the Radio," someone forgot about this step in moviemaking. The only comparable error that the Fatman can think of is when directors some­times mistake Tom Hanks for an actor. 
Since "Destiny Turns on the Radio" is devoid of any coherent plot line, what might be some of its other, more tangible qualities? How about good acting? Well, James Belushi is in it. That eliminates that possibility. Then how about Quentin Tarantino: did some of his momentum from "Pulp Fiction" transfer to "Destiny Turns on the Radio"? No again. He's really not much of an actor, but at least he didn't win two Oscars. He didn't really play that large of a role in the incoherent story of this gem of a stylized mise­en-scene. The cars, costumes, and shooting locations are meant to be "hip"-to inspire the viewer to slap on some bright blue baggy pants and strut around town looking to show off the strutting ability innate in us all. The Fatman thinks this is all rather obnox­ious, but done in a slick and pompous manner. 
The Fatman was disappointed by the last picture of the year. No substance and little style are not the yummy ingredients necessary for a decent film. The movie is painfully slow to watch and the acting is insipid at best. Tarantino should keep to directing and the short cameos he does in his own films. "Destiny Turns on the Radio" should be trashed, burned, beaten, and hanged. Not because it was so incredibly terrible that it brought fear into the hearts of Fatman and Daddy, but, rather, because it was so boring and stylistically pretentious that I'd rather lis­ten to a student poetry reading than see it again. 
Daddy: One last hurrah. One more movie. One more terrible movie. "Destiny Turns on the Radio" proved to be one of the most inane movies that the Fatman and I have been privileged to see this year. I guess we're to blame. We should have seen the ini­tial indicators of cinematic failure (known in film terms as the "Crappy Index"). First, any self-respect­ing critics should have expected disappointment when they realized that James Belushi was in the movie. Who gives this guy jobs? I guess I can see the "logical" pattern: talented comic dies. producers grab any sibling regardless of talent for whatever low-budget comedy they're making. Secondly, the Fatman and I cite the old film adage: "Once a writer, rarely an actor; and certainly never a good actor." Mr. Tarantino, write dialogue, and quit trying to act. Stick with your talents instead of pimping your popularity to make a buck. 
Even excusing these primary facets of my discon­tent, there was still enough trash in this movie to make me feel both nauseous and insulted. Maybe I'm just being old-fashioned, but I think a movie should have a plot. Even if it's just a thread of narrative to tie together what would otherwise be random shots of people I don't care about. "Destiny Turns on the Radio" fails to produce even the faintest strand of a coherent story line and thus left Daddy drifting in and out of sleep while the Fatman stuffed his greasy jowl well. The combination of these shortcomings makes this flick one doomed to a two-week run at the the­ater in Nowhere Town. 
On a final note, thanks to all those readers who have made this column the most successful weekly edition in the history of print media. It's you little folks that keep us going; it's you guys who pay our bills. We feed off your energy; in essence, we are batteries filled to the rim with the vim and vigor of the Notre Dame campus. Thanks again, and keep reading lest I send the Fatman to eat your young. 
Patman and Daddy are John Zack and Scott Bozik. Their movie reviews appear every Monday. 
'Village of the Damned': Condemned! 
By MEAGAN CICCARELLI and JENNIFER EARLS Film Critics 
"Village of the Damned" 
(out of four) 
* 

O
h, where to begin... John Carpenter, king of sci-fi shocker films from the late 70's through the 80's with cult greats like "Christine" and "Halloween," has dnfinitely stepped away from his past teen-pic greatness into some silly 90's realm full of aging 80's stars. 
The movie begins with a mysterious shadow traveling over a peacefully remote countryside, passing over the tranquil town of Midwich (pop. 2300), whose inhabitants black-out during their school fair. The local police are stumped and the federal government quickly arrives on the scene, though only the area of the Midwich has been affected. The government liaison, played by Kirstie Alley, is a tough-talk­ing, sunglass-wearing. strange yellow cigarette-smoking epidemiologist. This casting alone should be some sign to the viewer of the mismatched style of this movie. 
The effects of the black-out are soon apparent. The town doctor (rediscov­ered actor Christopher Reeves) unveils a striking and scary similarity: over ten of the women in Midwich have become pregnant. Heeves also realizes that the date of conception is the day of the black-out. Alley's character seems to be more informed than she lets on. and offnrs the frightened women and their families government "compensation" if they should decide to keep the babies, in exchange for the opportunity to study the children. The children are all born on the same day, within minutes of each other, in a barn that will be the site of the final vein-popping confrontation. All goes well in the delivery room, with the exception of one still-born baby, whose body is stolen away by Alley. Hmmmm ... what could that mean? She is later questioned by the town's reli­gious leader, another Universal re-hire, Mark Hamill, fresh from his software debut in the computer game "Wing Commander," (milk it for all it's worth, eh Luke?). The viewer is left with a shaky explanation of autopsy, but we clearly see her put the baby's body in a van ... oh, the suspense ... 
Carpenter than takes the viewer through the children's maturation. They have platinum hair, extra-human genius, and no emotions-but the really creepy thing is that the children have a collective conscience. As the children grow older, the town of Midwich realizes their powers due to mundane yet shock­ing acts of violence and death-these cherubs are evil! Carpenter must have gotten tired towards the end of his pro­duction, because the conclusion is disap­pointingly predictable. Still, it is fiery and full of weirdly tense moments between Reeves and the children. 
Jen: I would have to say that Carpenter let me down with this film. I was hoping for another "Halloween" or an "Escape From New York," and I was deeply saddened by this paltry effort. At the very least, I would have considered my money (and time) well spent for a Craven-esque "People Under the Stairs." But alas, I was left with an aging Superman (Reeves) and an emotionally unstable Rebecca (Alley), trying to play concerned adults pitted against spooky children with heads that look like Nice'n Easy experiments gone horribly wrong. 
The problem I had with Carpenter's latest effort is that the movie doesn't flow well at all. We are dealing with ten or so years of development in these evil kids and he just doesn't pull it off. All of the adults look exactly the same in the first scene as in the last. There is more time spent watching the children walk in pairs up and down the country roads then there is on developing the unnerv­ing distance between the children and their parents. My recommendation is that if you are thrilled by the idea of has-beens fighting off killer/alien chil­dren, then go see "Village of the Damned." 
Meagan: There is a specific audience for this movie, and I was not one of the select few. The high point of the movie came from my accidental disposal of a jillion Skittles onto the floor of the the­ater, giving the audience a good chuck­le. Unfortunately, this happened at the beginning of the movie. From there, the flick went downhill. The movie was pre­dictable and the dialogue seemed to be written by a third grader. The strength of the movie rested in the actors, but the acting consisted of first-rate actors stuck in second-rate roles. Also, the charac­ters were very one-dimensional and uninteresting. Frankly, I did not care what happened to them. In fact, when they were being knocked off, I laughed. The only characters of interest had very ._ minor roles and were eventually killed. 
The movie had potential, but was a major disappointment. Don't waste your time or money seeing this movie in a theater (or at all for that matter). In summary, as I sat through 93 minutes of hell, I have decided that "Village of the Damned" should be condemned to the bowels of a studio archives-never to be found. 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, May 1, 1995 
•NBA 
Celtics rebound from opening loss to stun Magic 
By FRED GOODALL 

Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. 
Anybody who didn't give Boston a chance against Orlando was dead wrong. 
The Celtics rebounded from the worst defeat in the fran­chise's storied 49-year history with a stunning 99-92 victory Sunday that not only evened the frrst-round playoff series 1­1 but wrested the homecourt advantage from the heavily favored Magic. 
Games 3 and 4 of the best-of­five matchup will be played at Boston Garden on Wednesday and Friday meaning at least two more games are left at the storied arena, which is being closed after the season. Orlando had the best record in the Eastern Conference during the regular season, but lost its last seven road games. 

Dominique Wilkins, Dee Brown and Sherman Douglas paced the turnaround less than 48 hours after the Magic destroyed the Celtics 124-77 on Friday night. The 47-point loss was worst ever for Boston, the only team in the playoffs with a sub .500 record. 
The loss was only the third at home this season for the Magic, who are 29-0 at Orlando Arena against Eastern Conference opponents before Sunday. But that didn't mean anything to the Celtics, who have a proud tradition that includes a record 16 NBA championships. 
Wilkins scored 24 points on 10-for-17 shooting, Brown added 21 and Douglas finished with 20 points and 15 assists. The Celtics held the Magic to one field goal in the last five minutes, Dennis Scott's 3-point­er with five seconds to go. 
Anfernee Hardaway led Orlando with 26 points. Shaquille O'Neal had 22 but the Magic never got the league scoring champion into the flow of the offense. Boston's Hack-a­Shaq strategy backfired in Game 1 when the All-Star cen­ter made 11 of 14 free throws, but was more effective Sunday although O'Neal did make 8 of 14. 
Boston shot 52 percent after making only 35 percent of shots in the first game. While Orlando struggled down the stretch, Brown and Douglas both made 3-pointers and Douglas added an off-balance 17 -footer that resembled more of a desperation heave than a fluid jumper to keep the Celtics ahead. 
Boston clearly did the better job on day between games of forgetting about what hap­pened in the opener. Orlando lacked the early aggressiveness that set the tone in Game 1 and the Celtics took advantage, shooting 57 percent on its way to a 29-22 lead. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Sales & Marketing Intern  2 bedrooms in quiet neighbour­ FOR SALE: '84 VW JETTA GLI  EUROPE $199 o/w  
NOTICES  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING· Seasonal & full-time employment  South Bend based sales firm is looking for summer intern. You will  hood, close to campus. Use of kitchen & laundry facilities. Summer  RED; good condition -$2000 obo Call Jennie @ 272-01 08  CARIBBEAN/MEXICO 189 r/t If you can beat these prices start  
available at National Parks, Forests  assist in developing sales promo­ and fall school year. Rent is $250  your own damn airline!  
J  U  N  0  A  S  & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits +  tion and marketing campaign,  per month. Call Paul at 232-2794.  2-YR OLD PANASONIC PRINTER  AIR-TECH LTD. 212/219-7000  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  developing database, conducting  FOR SALE -PERFECT COND.  info@ aerotech.com  
U  SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  N55843  marketing research and getting  Female Roomate needed 4  CALL VAL 4-2597  
OF RESUME AND DISK  hands-on experience with sales  summer session $165/mo Call  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
N  TO CAREER & PLACE·  Wanted: A passenger for the drive  calls & customer service.  2334960  LaFortune Student Center  
MENT SERVICES FOR  to California after graduation. I'm a  Our firm, a home based business,  4 piece Tama Granstar drums w/ all  ..J Quick turn around time !II  
RESUME BOOKS NOW!  better conversation than your last  has grown 50% annually for over  Share a faculty house $250/mo.  hardware & zildjian cymbals. Most  ..J Most orders completed  
SYR date. Guaranteed. Call Aaron  five years. We sell fixtures and  +1/2 utilities call287·1449  pieces excellent condition, bass a  within 24 hours  
0  DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  at x2052.  equipment to the retail industry. Our  bit less so. Real bargain at $600.  ..J Free pick-up & delivery  
LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  accounts range from single location  College Park Condo for rent this  <jbdougla@ indiana.edu> or  to & from departments  
A  independent retail operators to  summer. Call271-7895.  <douglass.1 @ nd.edu> or 272­ ..J Caii631-COPY  
Employment opportunity with an  multi-billion dollar/ multi-national  7417.  
s  Architectural and Engineering firm located in historic Lafayette,  corporations. Candidate ideally is familiar with  FOR SALE  For Sale: Student membership  Lisa & Andrea missed the boat!! Fellow Seniors-We need a booze  
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  Indiana for ARCHITECTURAL  Macintosh, a creative thinker with  (Great rate!) to Pinnacle Megaclub,  cruise ticket and fast! X2514-Will  
FREE PIZZA!! FREE MAS·  GRADUATE with AutoCAD profi­ experience in graphics & layout.  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  including full use of free weight  pay a handsome ransom!!  
SAGES! I  ciency and 3 months office experi­ Must be self-starter and goal orient­ at $85,900. First floor location.  room, aerobics, sauna, jacuzzi, etc.  
TONS OF OTHER FREE FOOD!! II!  ence. Resume to H.L. Mohler &  ed.  Finished basement with full lavato­ Good through summer 1996. Call  I ned a ride to EASTERN MASS  
Balloon stomping, darts, punching  Associates, P.C., 839 Main Street,  No fancy office ..no prestige just an  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  Katie X4089 today!  after graduation. Will split  
bags, pillow fighting, finger painting,  Lafayette, IN 47901  unique opportunity. Call for appoint­ ground level. Lease back to owner  gas/lolls/etc. Please call soon.  
basketball, and lots of other random  ment.  through May, 1995. Call  86 HONDA PRELUDE Sl  Tom x1712  
stuff...Come to SUB's final exam  L'ARCHE HARBOR HOUSE in  Group Four Marketing, Inc.  (616)946-0700.  red Sspd  Thank you.  
stress reliever on Sun., May 7th  Jacksonville, Florida invites you to  Manufacturers' Representative  Must Sell 4-2475  
from 9pm-12am in the LaFun  a year of service creating communi­ 219·271·8500 South Bend, IN  very cool LOFT for sale X2533  Conversational English teaching  
Ballroom.  ty with persons who are mentally  If you're planning on living off-cam­ positions available in South Korea.  
disabled. Responsibilities include:  Conversational English teaching  EPSON LX-810 printer. Used for  pus next year, we have some furni­ Call (616)473-2129 for information.  
FREE FOOD, REAL MASSEUSE!!  assist in creating a home based on  positions available in South Korea.  1 sem. Make offer. Call Janine­ ture you might want to buy.  English Teacher Recruiting Service.  
the Gospel; develop relationships  Call (616)473-2129 for information.  1412  We kept it real clean and want to  
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  with members; and assist in per­ English Teacher Recruiting Service.  sell it soon. Call271-1390 if you're  Walk, Swim, Crawl or Hitchhike ....  
sonal care and community living.  89 red Nissan Sentra. Only 44,000  interested in big desks, shelves, a  We don't care how you get there!  
ATTENTION SENIORS who are  Requirements include a desire to  Wanted: Cheap sublease for the  miles, Great Condition, Must see.  couch with pull-out bed, lamp  Just make sure you make it to:  
planning to VOLUNTEER next  live with, learn from, and relate with  summer. Call by May 8. (219)759­ $4000 OBO. Call 273 8428  tables, lamps, and more.  "**"*QUIG TOSTAL '95********  
year-Come.sign up at the esc to  mentally disabled adults. Benefits  2793.  COXSACKIE, NY  
be recognized at the VOLUNTEER  include stipend, room, board, and  Want to connect to the campus net­ JULY 8, 1995  
SEND-OFF Friday, May 19th  health insurance. To apply, contact  Need 1 graduation ticket x4200  work at lightning speed? Send and  Soprano SAX, Caravelle Brittany,  For more info call Vacco@1213 or  
Dottie Klein, L'Arche, 700 Arlington  receive faxes from your Mac with  $800, call x4200  Theresa@4708  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  Rd., Jacksonville, FL 32211;  ****"'******WANTED****************  the click of a button? Turn your  
Are you going to read those things again? I think not. 2323·2342  (904)725-7740.  I need a Mountain bike in good con­dition.  Mac into a full fledged voice mail system with up to 99 mailboxes?  TICKETS  J s  U  N  0  A  
Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard  AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  Call Mike at X4100  Then the Zoom 14.4 voice, fax, and  
BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL  data modem is for you.  All software  I need graduation tickets. Please  U  SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  included! Price new: $149.95.  call Lisa at 277-07 40  OF RESUME AND DISK  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT,  Please help me, I am desperate  Four months old: $95 in box. Call  N  TO CAREER & PLACE­ 
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  NO EXPER. NEC. GUIDE.  for extra graduation tickets for my  Matt at 273-6163  For Sale:  MENT SERVICES FOR  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME·  (919)929-4398 ext. C1082  Grandparents! Will pay good $$1  2 one way flights to Ft. Myers Fla.  RESUME BOOKS NOW!  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA·  Call Jose' at 4-3564.  89 red Nlssan Sentra. Only 44,000  Sat. May 10  
NEE, 219-773-2034.  COUNSELORS WANTED for  Miles, Great Condition, Must See  $125 each. call277-2488  0  DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  
WORD PROCESSING, TAXES,  Kwiwanis Twin Lakes Camp locat­ed in Plymounth, Ind. This is a  FOR RENT  $4000 OBO. Call 273 8428  I have xtra grad tix!  A  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  
GIFTS. 256-6657  summer camp for physically and  --VW---JETTA GLI  Chris 277 4316  
mentally handicapped children and  LIVE IN A GOOD AREA FUR­ 16V---VW-­ s  
TRUCK BACK TO D.C.  young adults. Most campers are  NISHED HOMES NORTH OF ND  •1990 •spotless, no rust •white  Need 1 Graduation T. for my broth­ 
TRUCK BACK TO D.C.  age 7 thru 21, but we have lifted the  IDEAL FOR 3-7 PEOPLE 2773097  •sunroof •manual •new sport tires  er that come back from Austrailia  KEENAN FOUR MAN SCRAMBLE  
CALL ROB AT X1745 FOR INFOR­ age limit. The campers are from  •looks and runs like new •$9500  for the 1st time in 4 yrs.  Thurs. May 4 @ 9:00am. 4 person  
MATION the Chicago metro area and from all over the state of Indiana. We want you to have an interest inILOST & FOUND Iworking with disabled children. The  Furnished Chicago Sublet: June­Aug, Lincoln Park, 2 blks from lake, el, & bus, large 1 bdrm, $550. Andrea 312-554-5959w, 312-404­ call now: 284-5261 LOFT 4SALEII in excellant condition  Call Semo at x1754 I need Grad Tickets  teams, $8.50 I golfer. *PRIZES*: 1st, 2nd, 3rd; long drive, closest to pin. Call Todd x3402.  
camp sessions run from June 11 to  1863h.  Call x3831  Jack X3588  hello  
LOST: Vivitar AF 200 35 mm cam­ August 16 with orientation the week  
era at an apartment on Lance Court  prior . We provide room and board  2 BDRM house $520/mo. + util.  FOR SALE:  I Need GRADUATION TICKETS  Melinda? ... ! went to a dance with a  
or vicinity during the Shadowlands  plus $1 ,000.00. If interested please  624 Park (Historic District)  Macintosh IISi w/personallaser  call ED @ X4204  girl named Melinda.  
cast party on Fri. April21. Name  call the camp's winter office 312·  Grad. Students pref. 232-6079  writer printer. Must sell, can't store!  -Frank  
a[ld home address on back.  767-CAMP  Best offer by Monday, May 1.  NEED 5 GRAD. TIX FOR FAMILY  
Sentimental value; no questions  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  Call Byron at x1478.  please call Dan @ 3669  BAKER,  
asked if returned.  Attention summer school students!  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  You never told me that you could  
REWARD. call Sue x1522  Looking for a responsible, fun-lov­ CAMPUS. 272·0615.  Pink loft and pink carpet • best  Irish Grandparents need tickets for  knock down the hook shot?  
ing student to babysit my 2 chil­ offer. Call 284·5304  graduation. Please call Carolyn at  Love,  
Silver and Brass Bracelet between  dren, ages 5&7, 2-3 afternoons per  Am available in 3 bedrm home for  271·7895.  GiG  
Debar! and NDH. Not worth a lot,  week 2-6pm in my Granger home.  summer/fall '95. $240 incl. utilities.  90 white Geo Prizm. AC, automatic,  i--------­ 
just got it in Mexico, so I want it  Please call277-5786.  5-min drive. 232-7175 or 631-4809.  66,000 miles. Great Condition.  need 1 graduation ticket-call chris  ltry so hard not to let you guys see  
back! If found, call Janina -1412  Must see. $5,000 OBO. Must sell  x1216  a chink in my armor.  
SUMMER SALES OPPORTUNITY.  Female nonsmk grad student want­ in a few days. Call273-6051  -Frank  
I lost a book called Revolutionary  Looking for ambitious student(s) for  ed to share spacious apt in historic  
Phrases by Lenin. The cover has a  summer advertising sales in South  downtown. Lrg windows, hardwood  Moving off campus? Need some  HELP! Need 1 or 2 tickets to  MEGAN- 
big picture of .Lenin's face. If you  Bend area and Northwest Indiana.  firs & fireplace. $200/mo. heat incl !  furniture?  We have it.  graduation. Please Call Wayne  Have you flown down any hallways  
found it, please call John at 271­ Must have automobile. Call  Call Alisa @ 4-3730  FOR SALE:  @634-4325$  lately? I  
1390.  .  •  Enterprise Publishing at 1-800-37 4­ Coach· $25  
2253.  Furnished, 2-bdrm home. 1013  Dresser-$25  Help-We need graduation tix. Will  Hey Molly,  
LOST: multi-colored ankle bracelet;  Cedar St. $450/mo. + utilities.  Single size bed (new) -$45  do ANYTHING for them-you name  The only mystery to me seems to  
last seen in front of neuwland.  Wanted: Housesitting Position. Law  Lease & deposit. 273-0860.  Desk-$45  it! Call John or Scott at 277-5720  be why we went to that thing.  
please call x26441  student will take care of your home  Chair& Ottoman · Negot.  and leave a message.  
this summer. References available.  1722 E Edison. 5 Bedrooms. Must  Call271-0226.  Alan,  
-·  FOUND: Women's wristwatch with readily identifiable silver wristband found bet. Siegried and Knott. Call  277-3512 Need person to ride with me on  be family. June 15 Occupancy. Karen 291-9011.  Moving Off-Campus? Buy my bed,dresser,desk and TV for  PERSONAL  I'm looking forward to spending the next two weeks with you.  
Matt x3315 to claim.  route to Omaha, NE. Will leave  Bed & Breakfast. Can accomadate  CHEAP prices. Call Bob at 271­ ADOPTION • A LOVING CHOICE  Lily's leg might be amputated for  
May 12 @ noon. Will have room  4-6. 10 min from University. Karen  8370.  Pediatrician and pediatric nurse  right now, but her spirit will never  
Found: Gold Pin/Broach near  for some stuff. Please call Rachael  291-9011.  happily married for seven years are  die. Don't worry dear friend we'll be  
Stepan Hall and the Rad Lab. Call  #4667.  For Sale  hoping to share our love with a  back for you in August. Until then,  
Peter x1-7850.  DREAM HOUSE FOR SUMMER  Cobra 3 Band  child. We love the outdoors, have  enjoy your stay in the barn.  
SUMMER JOBS  To sublet: spacious, fully-furnished  Radar Detector $50  comfortable home and country  
WANTED  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  2 bdrm near campus. 282-2246  277-9747  lakeside cottage. Will provide secure, loving home with full time  KELLY COYLE ..... IT'S YOUR  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  HOMES FOR RENT  FUTON  mom. Counseling and allowable  BIRTHDAY!  HAPPY 20thlll  
Need a ride to Denver on May 18?  NEAR LAKE PLACID  NEAR CAMPUS  CHEAP GOOD SHAPE  expenses. Call Kim or Mike at 1­ LOVE,  
Call Hester: 1-8556/4310  1-800-786-8373  232-2595  X1228  800-469-0559  Amy, Megan, Charity, Katie, Stacy  

Monday, May 1, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• SAINT MARY'S TRACK 
• SOFTBALL 
Belles' depth keys finish 

Lack of offensive output hinders Irish 
By NEIL ZENDER McMahon's well-placed bunt Sports Writer and then scored on Elizabeth 
Perkins' single right between 

The Notre Dame softball pitcher Kassie Reynolds' legs. team watched Indiana roll into Notre Dame then loaded the town on Saturday as the bases before Katie Marten Hoosiers proceeded a double­popped up to end the inning. header, win­Indiana knotted the game up ning 2-0 and in the fourth by scoring a run 3-1 respec­off starter Terri Kobata. tively. The Hoosiers loaded the 
"We did bases and Aimee Lonigro not deserve scored on a sacrifice fly. tying to win to­the game at 1-1. day," Coach Liz Miller The Irish loaded the bases in said. "It was the fourth and fifth frames but probably the once again failed to score. It weakest overall performance was unusual considering the we've put in. We weren't here Irish can score as they aver­to win, we were here to play. age over four runs per game. Those are two entirely differ­"That's something we've ent things." done well all year," Miller 
said. "We didn't do that 

The Irish fell 2-0 in the first today. Part of it is that indi­bill. Joy Battersby (10-6) vidually we were pressing too pitched a solid six innings but hard. There wasn't a lot of it wasn't enough. momentum. We just failed 
The first inning was a rough fundamentally." one in which she yielded two Indiana broke the tie in the runs. sixth. A walk, a sacrifice, and 
Battersby retired the first a single brought Venturella two batters but then an infield home with the winning run. single was followed by Michelle Venturella's home The Hoosiers added an run to straightaway center insurance run in the top of the field, giving the Hoosiers the seventh when Kobata, with the only two runs they needed. bases loaded, walked home 
Indiana's third and final run. 

After that, Battersby was It was definitely an off-day stellar. She allowed eight run­for Notre Dame's ace ners to reach base in the next righthander who is battling a five innings but none of them hip flexor. Kobata (16-3) is scored. tied for the lead among 
However, Notre Dame's hit­Division I pitchers with 10.6 ting did could not push a run­strikeouts per seven innings ner across the plate. pitched. 
*The Irish had runners in In seven Saturday innings, scoring position with one or she only struck out eight with none out in the second, third none of them coming after the and fifth innings. However, fourth inning. Kobata gave up the only thing Notre Dame got no hits in the first three out of it was a whole lot of innings and six in the last nothing. four. 
The same inability to capital­"She hasn't thrown (in prac­ize on opportunities cost the tice) because her leg has been Irish the game in the second a problem the whole week," bill, 3-1. Miller said. "She hasn't had 
The Irish initiated the scor­one practice since last ing in the second inning. Sara Saturday. It would have been Hayes singled to center, was surprising for her to be sharp sacrificed to second by Kara today." 
Juniors, Sophomores, Freshman and 
Others Returning next fall for more 
Undergraduate or Graduate School: 
Will you be spending time this summer deciding what you will do after graduation? If giving a year or two in 
SERVICE 

to others may be a part of your thinking, please join us.for a presentation on 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
on Monday. May 1 . 1995 
4:30p.m. 

Center for Social Concerns 
This is open to anyone of any year who might be interested. For more information, call 63 1-552 1 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Sports Edimr 
The Saint Mary's track team wrapped up one of the best sea­sons the Belles have seen on Saturday with a 263 point fin­ish at the Elmhurst Invitational. 
When the team opened their indoor season in early February head coach Larry Szczechowski was overwhelmed with the number of participants. 
Unlike most years, however, the team's large roster refused to thin out as the season pro­gressed, and every member was deemed valuable. 
The Belles began their out­door season with improvement as a theme. 
.At the team's first meet, the Wabash Invitational, the team began their improvement with a 111 point finish. a first place finish in the high jump from sophomore Paula Kivinen, and a record-breaking shot put per­formance from sophomore Kelly Medlin. 
The next highlight of the team's season was over Easter break in the Little State Meet at IUPU. 
Several personal records were set such as sophomore Erin Mellifont's 2:24.2 time in the BOOM, Kivinen's 5"2' jump in the high jump, junior Michelle Wenner's 5:00.1 time in the 1500M, and the 4x1 OOM relay's 54.3 time involving sophomore Courtenay Powers, junior Jill Jusick, sophomore Kristen Donahue, and senior Joann Weed. 
Also a record-breaker that day was in the 4x400M relay which consisted of Mellifont, sophomore Desiree Leak, Kivinen, and Wenner. 
However, the team's greatest performance occurred last Saturday in their final meet of the season at the Elmhurst Invitational. 
Although the invitational involved several Division I and II teams, the Belles still scored 263 points, which was not only the most points the team had earned all season, but the most a team had earned throughout the duration of Coach Szczechowski's career. 
Starring in the meet were Medlin, who shattered her school record yet again with her 35"8' throw in the shot put. Due to serious competition, however, the throw supplied Medlin with only a sixth place. 
"I'm very pleased with my performance on Saturday, but I do recognize a need for even more improvement," said Medlin. 
"I was impressed with my throw, but I know that it is still not my best." 
Also a bit disappointed with her race on Saturday was Mellifont. 
"I was disappointed in my race yesterday," said Mellifont. "I wanted to earn my best time of my season, and I didn't. Overall, however. I do feel that this was a great season for us, and I hope to improve more next year. This team is one of the best that I have ever seen, due to the enormous depth and our great ability to work to­gether." 
Mellifont's performance was 
PROTECT YOUR CREATIVE PROPERTY! Special student memberships arc available .in THE NATIONAL WRITERS LEAGUE Safeguard your Ideas, Treatments, Scripts, Books or Manuscripts. For membership information and a free Property Registration Kit, CALL (219) 287-5082 
not so devastating to the com­petition, however, as she was awarded a second place for her 
2:26.1 finish in the 800M. 
The 4x100M relay, composed of Jusick, Donahue, Weed, and sophomore Theresa Zamarelli broke yet another season record with their 53.8 time. 
The 4x400M relay earned fifth place for their perfor­mance which involved Mellifont, Kivinen, Leak, and Wenner. 
Other fifth places were awarded to Wenner in the 1500M and freshman Lori Mrowka for her time in the 400M hurdles. 
Most impressive to Coach Szczechowski was the fifth place finish of Jusick in the lOOM. 
"We never had anyone place in that event," said Szczechowski. "I'm really im­pressed with Jill. She has in­creased steadily throughout the season, along with the relay teams." 
One disappointing aspect of the Belles' meet on Saturday was that it was the last for se­nior captain Joann Weed. 
"We will really miss the lead­ership of Joann next year," said Medlin. "She has really guided and encouraged us throughout the season, as well as being a lot of fun." 
Weed ended her career at Saint Mary's with a personal record in the shot put of 31"7'. 
"I really feel like we had a monumental season this year. We earned more points in one season than any other track team has before," said Weed. "On Saturday, we broke the school record for the most points scored in one meet, which was a great way to end the season as well as my col­lege career." 
The leading point scorers of the season involved Kivinen in first place, Mellifont in a close second, and Wenner in third with Jusick and Weed not far behind. 
Coach Larry Szczechowski ended the season with words of praise to his '95 team. 
"I attribute the team's suc­cess this year to their spirit and sense of commodore. This is the greatest group of athletes that I've seen in years, and I'm sorry to see the season end," said Szczechowski. 

The Development Phone Center gmlejully acknowledges those who have supported its student caller incentive program. 
Baker's Square Restaurant  Hot Sam Company, Inc.  
Bibler's Original Pancake House  I Can't Believe It's Yogurt  
Bonnie Doon Ice Cream Corp.  Kroger  
Cactus Jack's Mexican Grill  Little Professor Book Center  
Camelot Music  Lone Star Steakhouse  
Chili's Grill  Old Country Buffet  
Cordially Yours  Osco Drug Store #421  
Doc Pierce's Restaurant  Patricia Ann Florist  
Emporium Restaurant  Rocco's Restaurant  
Fannie May Candies  Spageddies  
Fantastic Sam's  United Limo, Inc.  
Flowers by Stephen  Wendy's of Ft. Wayne, Inc.  
Frank's Delicatessen  


The ObseJVer/Rob Finch Charles Stafford of the Blue team was the offensive player of the game for his five touchdown performance. Above, Stafford hauls in a Ron Powlus TO pass. 
• BLUE·GOlD GAME SCORING SUMMARY AND STATISTICS 
Halftime score-Blue 0, Gold 0 
Third Quarter 

The Gold team was spotted 21 points to begin the second half. 
Gold 21, Blue 7 

(6 plays, 65 yards, 3:03) 11:57-Charlie Stafford 15­yard pass from Ron Powlus (Chris McCarthy kick). Key Play: Powlus hit Emmett Mosley on a 20-yard pass to the Gold 17-yard line. 
Gold 21, Blue 14 

(1 play, 37 yards, :28) 
10:22 -Stafford 37-yard pass from Powlus (Jerry Maloney kick). Key Play: A Lyron Cobbins interception of a Wade Smith pass that gave the Blue the ball at the Gold 37. 
Blue 21, Gold 21 (5 plays, 33 yards, 2:41) 
3:23 -Stafford 3-yard pass from Powlus (Scott Cengia kick). Key Play: Bert Berry's recovery of a Wade Smith fumble. The play was caused by a Paul Grasmanis sack. 
1 I Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! 

Offteial Wholesale Price List! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 
55 E. llbshington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Free 32-Pag• Color Catalog T•U-Fm (_, f22-(}()9G ~;: ~12) 977-0248 
lr:t•,.,., CIJialogat bttp: l!www.oapuk.com/$11p<~:k 


Fourth Quarter 
Blue 28, Gold 21 (10 plays, 62 yards, 5:40) 
9:45 -Stafford 9-yard pass from Puwlus (Kris Kazlauskas kick). Key Play: Powlus hit Randy Kinder on an 11-yard pass to the Gold 9-yard line on a third­and-17. 
Blue 35, Gold 21 (10 plays, 78 yards, 3:53) 
3:39 -Stafford 15-yard pass from Powlus (McCarthy kick). Key Play: Powlus hit Stafford with a 25-yard pass to the Gold 37 -yard line. 
Game Statisstics 
Blue Rushing: Ron Powlus 9 attempts, -7 yards, Randy Kinder, 9-34, Robert Farmer 8­47, Marc Edwards 5-13, Clement Stokes 1-11. Passing: Ron Powlus 21-of-25, 273 yards, 5 touchdowns. Receiving: Charles Stafford 7­123, 5 touchdowns, Derrick Mayes 3-43, Emmett Mosley 3­40, Marc Edwards 2-21, Pete Chryplewicz 2-18, Leon Wallace 1-11, Randy Kinder 1­11, Robert Farmer 2-6. Tackles: Kinnon Tatum 2, Lyron Cobbins 3, Bert Berry 3, Ivory Covington 1, Allen Rossum 1, Brian Magee 4, Shawn Wooden 2, Jarvis Edison 3, Bill Wagasy 1, Renaldo Wynn 4, Paul Grasmanis 4, Cliff Stroud 3, Jerry Maloney 1, Mike Fascogna 2, Scott Cengia 1. 
Gold Rushing: Torn Krug 5 attempts, -2 yards, Marcus Thorne 1-2, Clement Stokes 14-49, Wade Smith 2 (-15). Passing: Torn Krug 8-of-20 for 57 yards, Wade Smith 1-of-2 for 13 yards. Receiving: Dan McConnell 4­31, Malcolm Johnson 2-22, Cikai Champion 2-13, Kevin Carretta 1-4. Tackles: John Bishop 4, Mark Monahan 4, John McLaughlin 3, Clement Stokes 4, Joe Babey 4, Bill Mitoulas 2, Kurt Belisle 4, Corey Redder 2, David Quist 1, Jeff Kramer 1, Wade Smith 2, Corey Bennett 3, Larry Wright 4, Ty Goode 2, Robert Phelps 4, Mike Frascogna 1, Bill Gibbs 1, Mike McCullough 1. 
Students $Earn some extra cash$ 
$2o.oo 
Bring Student I.D. 
To: American Biomedical CTR 515 Lincolnway West-South Bend 
Help save a Life 
Hours: M-F: 9-6 Sat: 8-5 

234-6010 
Bring this Coupon 
18 yrs. old, bring I.D. with Proof of current address. 

Monday, May 1, 1995 

Stafford explodes for five touchdowns 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
He makes things happen. It's that simple. 
In the first half of Saturday's Blue-Gold Game, the Blue team offense was lethargically ineffi­cient. Charles Stafford decided it was time to take things into his own hands, quite literally. What he took into those hands was pretty impressive, namely five Ron Powlus touchdown tosses. 
"I was just able to get open," Stafford said. "It was a lot of fun. I was fortunate enough to have a good day." 
For Stafford, who was named the offensive player of the game, it's all about attitude. The attitude adjustment be­tween the first and second halves was very apparent. 
But what concerns Stafford more is the change between this upcoming season and last season. If this spring is any indication, Stafford will be happy. 
"It (the game) tells us that we have a chance to do something special," Stafford noted. "All of us have the right attitude. 
It is not what is said, it is what is not said. I see (Paul) Grasrnanis. I see Powlus. It's in their eyes." 
It's also in Stafford's eyes. 
"They say great players make great plays," said the Stafford. "I say that every night before I go to bed. I want to make great plays." 
He made more than his share on Saturday. To be more spe­cific, the 5-foot-9 flanker snared 14, 37, 3, 9, and 15­yard touchdowns. And with ease. 
He doesn't post the most im­pressive 40 times, but he got behind the defense. A defen­sive lineman has a better verti­cal leap, but when the ball was up for grabs, it was Stafford's and no one else's. 
"I just want to make the of­fense more potent," the fifth­year senior-to-be said. 
So, in his drive to be more productive, Stafford started with the little things; like his uniform number. 
Wearing no. 24 last season, he decided a change would be appropriate so he switched with defensive back Ty Goode to a more receiver-like no. 81. 
"I know someone else who had success with this number. I'm just trying to emulate my game after him." 
Stafford's evocation of Tim Brown's name is some heady stuff, but the ever-confident Stafford sees real potential on this offense. 
"With the offensive line, it's a matter of maturity," said Stafford. "Well run the ball well and now Ron knows he has someone else to throw to." 
The other main reason for the confidence is the team's mental state. 
"We're playing for each other 
this year. The closer we are, 
the more success we'll have." 

CONGRATULATE YOUR FAVORITE GRADUATE! 
Reserve this sPace for onlY $20. or somethine a little bieger for a little more! Call 219·631·6900 for info or send a Picture and somethine to saY with a check to: The Observer PO Box Q Notre Dame lN 46556 bY May 16th! 
Dart Notice 

ANY SEATS AVAILABLE IN THE FOLLOWING COLLEGE OF BUSINESS COURSES WILL OPEN TUESDAY AT 12 NOON TO ALL STUDENTS: 
BA230 BA362 BA363 FIN 231 FIN 360 FIN 361 MG,. 231 MARK 231 


Monday, May 1, 1995 
Wake-Up 
continued from page 20 
quarterback Ron Powlus hit senior wideout Charles Stafford for five consecutive touchdowns to lead the Blue team to a 35-21 victory. 
"In the second half we just turned up the intensity, and we C<tme through when we needed to," Powlus said of the come back. "Charlie (Stafford) had a terrific day. Both those guys, Charlie and Derrick (Mayes) make it so much easier on me." 
"I was disappointed in the sharpness and crispness of the first half," Holtz explained. "In the second half we played much better." 
The lack of a more lopsided game could also be attributed to the play calling. 
"We were very limited today," Powlus commented. "The de­fense was the same all game and we didn't show much of-

The Observer • SPORTS 
fense at all." 
As the spring season came to a close, Holtz was very pleased. Especially after the offensive play in the second half of the game. 
"This has probably been the most productive spring practice I've had," he said. 
INJURIES: Wideout Derrick Mayes provided a scare to Irish fans as he left the game with 
3:50 left in the first half holding his left arm. After the game he answered the injury question by pinning a sign to the sling around his left shoulder that said, "I sprained my shoulder." Doctors said he only needed to rest the shoulder and should be OK in a week or two. 
Along with Dusty Zeigler, de­fensive tackle Melvin Dansby also did not participate in the game. Rich Kaczenski filled in for Zeigler and Cliff Stroud started for Dansby. Stroud paced the Blue defense with four tackles in the first half. 
SPECIAL TEAMS: Tire Irish may have found their man for kick-ofT returns. Back-up quar­terback Wade Smith fielded the initial kick-off of the game at the seven and returned it 53 yards before being pushed out of bounds. 
On a more serious note, se­nior walk-on Scott Palumbo punted four times for over a 44 yard average. 
IN A ZONE: Outside line­backer Bert Berry showed some flashes of pure dominance in the third quarter. After nose guard Paul Grasmanis forced a quarterback fumble, Berry picked the ball from mid-air and dragged running back Clement Stokes for 17 yards. In the Gold team's next offensive series, Berry stopped Stokes for a seven yard loss. Tackled quarterback Tom Krug on a roll out and then sacked Krug for a five yard Joss. 
If he can maintain such level of play in the regular season, he 

The Observer/Rob Finch Clement Stokes led all rushers with 49 yards Sunday. He was the only offensive spark for a gold team that was given 21 points at halftime. 
could become one of the most  running b'l.cks Robert Farmer  
dominating defensive players in  and Clement Stokes continued  
collegiate football.  an impressive spring season by  
OF NOTE:  Neither defensive  running well during the Blue­ 
back Allen Rossum or Ivory  Gold game.  Farmer rushed  
Covington did anything to solid- eight times for 4 7 yards and  
ify the cornerback slot across  Stokes carried the ball 15 times  
from Shawn Wooden.  Whereas  behind the second string line  
on the other side of the ball,  for 60 yards.  


Join the real world with the right career. 
We're Hewitt Associates LLC, a global benefits consulting firm based in suburban Chicago. You'll find us listed in 
Th~.J 00 Best Companies To Work For In America. And due to our unparalleled growth, we're out to find the best can­didates for career entry analyst opportunities in our innovative client-server environment. Formal training will be pro­vided. If you have an outstanding GPA. an analytical mind, and the desire to get into exciting project work right away, lets find out more about each other. Send your resume including GPA (transcript preferred) to: Dave Quinn, Hewitt Associates LLC, P.O. Box 221, Lincolnshire, IL 60069. Or, fax to 708•883•0076. Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Hewitt Associates 
•

Helping Cients Around The World Improve Business Results Through People. 
' . 



Monday, May 1, 1995

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 



MOVED TO MONDAY 


DUE TO BAD WEATHER 12:00 P.M.-5:00P.M. 
Awa r ds 
NBT2 
Winners 
continued from page 20 

guys are the future of the tournament, and if any of them join forces, they will be dangerous. Jimmy Keenan (Diamondbacks) may be the best true point guard out there, followed closely by Adin McCann (We're the Truth). Paul Rainey (Cactus Jack's) is a fantastic slasher who has al­ready signed on with Models INC, the sequel. Jarvis Edison (CASH) was the smoothest of the frosh football players, and John Haigh (Afrodeeziaks) looks to be "guru" II. 
The Best Talker. No one was more entertaining than Chuck Stafford (Pink Sky). A Jot of players jaw with each other and the referees, but Stafford is the clear winner for his interaction with the fans. ''I'm a man, so you have to get a man out here to guard me," was one of his best lines. 
fast break rumbles brought some needed levity to tense games. 
Most quotable. Tracy Graham (Models INC.) made the boldest statement in guaranteeing vic­tory before the Sweet Sixteen had been made. This bravado was refreshing among the usual "We played well as a team" quotes favored by the rest of the field. Honorable mention goes out to Joe Haigh. 
The 'Walk softly and carry a big stick' team. 
This squad is the antithesis of the trash talkers: you might miss them on the court, except of course they are lighting you up. This could dou­ble as the unsung hero team. Greg Midget (Models INC.), Pat Keaney (Rebel Alliance) and Matt Coles (Showtime) were towers of strength for their team in understated fashion. Jean Joseph (Pink Sky) and Jason Newcomer (SWOOSH) form a backcourt that was quietly effective. 
The all-Star team you've never heard of Some people get the spotlight, others are missed. These guys are ones to watch next year: Kevin Janicki (KERBDOG). Keith Eastland (Cactus Jack's), Ryan Rolf (Wooden Shoes), John Heilman (We're the Truth) and Dan Fannon (DOS KLOSKAS). 
Best play of the tourney. No one will forget 
Zatavatski's flamboyent no-look pass to Haigh off 
the break in the championship. For those keep­
ing score at home, Haigh blew the layup. 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Bookstore MVP Jason Williams scored at will over opponents throughout the tournament. 

The all-Hustle team. These guys would dive on the ground if they saw a penny. Dave Baker (Diamondbacks) and Rich Probst (Wooden Shoes) headline this group, joined by Jason Hanley (Showtirne), Jason Woodward (Woody & 4 Other Stiffs) and Brad Fish (NBT 2). 
The 'We love to hate them' team. Some of the best players certainly don't endear themselves to the crowds, no matter how spectacularly they play. Models' Williams was definitely the most despised, especially following the "check-ball" controversy in the finals. The Ziolkowski twins (C.C.E.) will always have a spot on this squad, although they improved their bad boy image this year. Nate Walters (ARCOLA) drew derision for his "underwear" headgear. The university ad­ministration will take the final spot for forcing the move of the elite eight games from traditional Bookstore out to Stepan. 
Best and Worst shots. Pat Walsh's (Woody) rainmaker to beat Cactus Jack's was the most dramatic, while Lamar Justice's (C.C.E.) wide open missed dunk killed his squad's chances in the final eight. 
Best dancer. Owen Smith (Models INC.) is the hands down winner, as his moves before the fmal were worthy of Michael Jackson. 
Crowd favorite. Everyone loved NBT's Mark 
Zatavatski. as the big lineman's wacky socks and 

TYE DYE, TAlTOOS, ALPHA EX PERl ENCE, ETC. 


Mr. Bookstore Joe Haigh drives around Models' Conrad James Sunday. 

Models 
continued from page 20 
game as Models controlled the backboards and muscled NBT2. 
"He made them so much stronger," said NBT's Tom Hinehart. "He killed us in the first half and played great de­fense on Zat." 
"Zat was remarkable yester­day (Saturday) and we knew we had to stop him to have a chance," said Models' Conrad James, who had 3 points and 5 rebounds. 
Zataveski, an intense com­petitor with a fun loving atti­tude, could not get into the now against Wynn as he managed only 2 points. His semifinal per­formance consisted of no-look passes and fast break layups as he carried NBT2 into the final. 
"I played so well because Henaldo was not there on Saturday," said the affable Zataveski. "He made them 
,.... 
tough and no one had a good day for us." 
Haigh led NBT with six points and kept them close with his outside shooting. Scattered points by Ben Foos (4) and Brad Fish (3) did not provide enough firepower. However, Models had critical offensive rebounds, including Owen Smith's follow­up basket to end the game. Smith's fourth point and first rebound of the day ended the contest. 
"The key was rebounding," explained Bookstore MVP Jason Williams. "We had four athletes that they couldn't stop." 
Williams, running the point for Models, scored six points in front of a hostile crowd. Every stoppage in play resulted in loud insults directed toward the flamboyant Williams. 
"What they say up there doesn't predicate what I do in life," said Williams. ''I'm a strong minded man and playing basketball won't determine my life, but it will prepare me for it." 
"The whole campus was against him," said Graham. "We had confidence in him and I stood by him the whole way. He doesn't get enough credit." 
"The crowd just pumped us even more," added James. "It made us play harder because we had to rely on each other. We knew people were against us from the beginning when they booed us walking out of Flanner." 
NBT had the crowd going in their favor at the outset as Haigh hit two long jumpers to open the game. Every steal or basket by NBT was followed by loud cheers as the lead changed hands four times early. 
''I'm used to playing with the crowd against me, but I guess they just rooted for the under­dog," said the affable Zataveski. "We were having fun putting on a show and I loved it." 
Once Models settled down, the forward trio of Greg Midgett, James and Smith con­verted numerous tip-ins to take an 11-9 halftime lead. Midgett finished with three points and nine boards. 
At the start of the second half, Fish switched over and guarded Williams to keep Haigh's legs fresh on the of­fensive end. 
The strategy slowed Williams a little, but his penetration cre­ated numerous opportunities for Models. 
"We both wanted to guard him and try to contain him," said Fish about Williams. "I loved the challenge, but he hit his free throws to clinch it." 
After a rain soaked tourna­ment, the No. 1 seed ended where they started. 
"The best team won and it showed on the court," con­cluded commissioner John Albrighton. 

You could rent any truck. Then again, you could've gone to any school. 

Till'!"!' an· llitlll:'<tiltb .;~· ("(dll'gcs tJlll tlll'l"l'. Fortullatt'ly, you lll<ldt• a good d;oit't'. Now lllllkt• lilt' ngl1t <"illlli"t' ''!It'll ytillit•a\t'. 1{('111 a trtl("k froll1 Hydrr. 
i{ydn 111akt·~ Y•'tlr Ill! IV(' ca:-y. Witl1 a ('OIIV('IIit'rit ttdl-f'n•t• l"l'::ilT\ati()ll IIUIIIiH'r. (:1ca11. rl'liahlc \t'llwlt·:-tii(Il ar<' t•asy 111 luad <llld drivt~. l;ast prol"I~Ssi11g to speed up cl!t'l'k-ill a11d l'iH~ck-out. A11d a :!.1-II<,tlr Htllltbidt· .\ssi:-lillll'c Lilli' for lwlp alo11~ tlw way. 
l'ltic-.  \IIIII" ~ltulcnl  ID •·ntilk~  you to ~p('.-ial  ~a\'in~~!  :-;o p11t  Vtltll" t•dttt·atitlll to gtHHltJSI'  
;I lid I :til  1-BOO-L()-J:')j )J-:J{ ( UJi_IJ:U 71.  We're there when you need us.  
South Bend  South Bend  South Bend  South Bend Mishawaka  
RTR  Jack's Tra1ler Sales  Ciras Marathon  Tom's Car Care Jaccar Inc.  
2715 N. Bendix Dr.  51370 U.S. 33 North  1914 S. Miami St.  3201 Sugar Maple Ct. 1714 East 121t1 St.  !'  
I i  (219) 277-3550  (219) 277-9799  (219) 289-6721  (21 9) 288-0316 (21 9) 255-44 17  -~  
I  ~  

L_------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


---~-----------------~-----­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, May 1, 1995 
• LACROSSE 
Irish on brink of Great Western League title 

Sutton, was the only goal of theColley's seven period for either team. The second quarter was a dif­points keys win ferent story. Notre Dame 
jumped out to a 7-0 lead on goals by Colley, Brian Gilfillan,

over Spartans 
and DeRiso. 
With 2:18 left in the half. MSU got on the scoreboard on a 

By DAVE TREACY 
Sports Writer goal by Chris Clark, who ended 
The road to the NCAA 
up with three goals for the Spartans.

lacrosse tournament took a brief pit stop in East Lansing 
"We had a lot of movement, which created lots oflast weekend. 

opportunities," said Kearney.

For the third year in a row, "Their defense wasn't handlingMichigan State fell to the Irish, us too well, and our middies did leaving Notre Dame one game what we wanted to do offen­away form the Great Western sively and defensively." 
Lacrosse League title. 
Michigan State began a run inThe story of the day was the 

the second half, closing the

offensive dominance of Randy margin to 7-5. The streak wasColley. The tri-captain scored short lived, as the Irish man-upsix goals on the afternoon, and 
dished off once to give him offense ended the run with a seven points against MSU. 
strong possession and goal by Marc Pasquale. Colley foundColley and the rest of the of­the net twice before the end offense had no greater ally on the 

day than the weak MSU de­
the third, and also scored to open the fourth quarter.

fense. 
Much of the day's success

"They just had poor backside came from the crease play ofdefense, and we were able to 
take advantage of that with 
Alex Cade. "Alex came up big for us. Hesome good plays. They played 

bad defense off the ball," said had lots of key saves, especially in the first half, that kept theattackman Will DeRiso, who 
momentum in our favor,"

scored two goals in the contest. Tim Kearney, who amassed Kearney said. The Irish can close up the
four assists against the 
GWLL with a win next weekSpartans, opened up the scor­over Ohio State. A win will give 

ing for the Irish ten minutes Kevin Corrigan's squad their
into the first quarter. The 
fourth straight NCAA bid.

man-up goal, assisted by Will 
Check tomorrow's Observer for complete coverage of 
The Observer/ Scott Medenhall 
Notre Dame baseball and track. 
Senior Marc Pasquale (left) helped the Irish defeat Michigan State as his goal stopped a Spartan run of five unanswered scores to secure the Notre Dame win. 
-~~----~------~ ---~ ---~­
-

UNUSUAL SUMMER JOB ON CAMPUS 
WNDU needs a vacation relief technician for summer employ­ment from May through September to install, operate, maintain, and repair radio, television, cable, and satellite equipment. This is 
.ideal for a technically-minded science/engineer student with a knowledge of electricity and electronics. The position is for up to 40 hours per week. includes shiftwork, and requires a valid dri­ver's license and transportation. Please apply at the WNDU Studios by May s•h. 
Session I -May 18 to June 23 Session II -June 26 to August 3 
There are some good reasons to take classes 
at Holy Cross College this summer. Perhaps you could 
benefit from one or both of our summer sessions, 
each offering a wide variety of quality general 

Sunday, May 7 education courses. Or maybe our affordable summer tuition rate of $140 per credit hour sounds appealing.
9 pm-12 am 

LaFortune Ballroom Whatever the reason, Holy Cross College summer sessions can offer you the opportunity to use your time more productively during the upcoming summer break. You can take advantage of our exceptionally small classes, dedicated and caring faculty and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. And, of course, credit earned is transferrable. 
So why not write or call today for more information about Holy Cross College? Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the 1995 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
HOLY

before after 



*
CROSS 
COLLEGE Office of Admissions 
P.O.Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 
(219) 233-6813, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 
© 1995 



MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES  
I SIJI'POSE. 11-\t: SEc.Rt.T 10 11f>..P?\~I::S'S \5 L~P.,R~\NG \0 t\PPRECif>..\E 1\-\t. MO\-'.I::.t·-IT.  ~~t'..it.  I, FDR t:Xf>..MPL~, Tf>..KE. GREf>..\ I'Lt:.f>..'SIJRE I~ 8£:\r{G R.IG\i\ \-\ERE, R\GI-\T NOW, Doi~G W\-\f>..T 'Nt::RE 0011'\G.  








DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
• OF INTERQT 
.· . . \l:#i
r-------------------~ur---------------------­
' A!tf)ntion Juhlors: there will be a general informa·
1 THINK THE BEST WAY TO B I'LL Pf\O~OTE. 1'1\Y UNIQUE-~ 
WON'T PEOPLE-SHOW 

tion session.torthose interested in volunteer work after
PUR5UE f'\Y GOAL OF WORLD 5 CONSERVATIVE VIEW­
.: u YOUR VIEWPOINT TO 
graduatiop..".:;.rw;:~obn Pinter of Holy Cross Associates wiU be
"' 

DOMINAliON IS TO ~ POINT THAT PEOPLE ARE 
at the CSC;toaay at 4:00 p.m. 
,. BE. FLAWED BY VIRTUE BECOME A TALK ~ADIO ~ IDIOTS WHO DESEf\VE 
OF THEIR INTELLIGENT 

Seniors: there are still volunteer programs available
"' 

r\051 ~ TO BE MOCKED QUESTIONS? 
in teachlng and social services with some great programs
0 

j\11 over the U.S. as well as American Samoa and Japan.
"' 
LIKE Tf-\AT 

'\'%J;:. =$k. 
ONE? 
\ 

~.Notre Dame 

NORTH DINING HALL SOUTH DINING HALL 
{:<:
CROSSWORD 
,Arroz con Polio Chicken in the Pot 
ACROSS 32 Prophet 52 Horseshoers' 
ifibRice Pilaf .. \ Clam Strips 
:~ti::. ·,' . . ::··f,:·'
tools
33 "--Yankee

1 "You can say 
,::Turkey Steak Whipped Potatoes 
Doodle dandy" 54 "The Raven" 

·:. .:···.~t=>.=~ poet
that again" 34 Like most a Papa's partner 
:$aintMJ};s
colleges today 56 "Not a--too

10 Plays on stage 35 Taj Mahal site soon" 
COMMUNITY PICNIC
14 Perfection sa Pete Sampras 38 Book before 15 Son of Adam 
org.18 Tropical root 40 Inventory 
James 62 Novelist Paton 

11 Tuxedo. slangily 43 "I Do. I Do, I Do, 64 Locomotive's I Do. I Do" 
front19 Collar type singers 66 Become20 Otherwise 44 With 22-Down, fatigued21 Starry a cake brand 67 Leg's middle 

23 Computer headache 45lmitate 68 Don't exist 
24 Nursery rhyme 46 Bumstead dog 69 Jay Lena, e.g. and namesakes 

Have
Jack 10 Three feet 28 Counters by 
49 Cut. as nails 

71 Absorbs books argument so Visibly 28 Jam bottle embarrassed 31 Push 51 This and --DOWN 
something to say? 

1 Two nickels 2 Object of 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
adoration 
Use
3 7 I 3, 5 + 5, 1 ~ 9, etc. 4 Instances of 

18 Peter of Peter, 42 Li'l Abner's 55 Mixture filming 
Paul &Mary creator 57--Lisa 22 See 44-Across 44 Carpenter. 59 Mets milieu 
The Observer 

5 Bullring shout 25 Purplish brown often &o Take care of
6 Rubdowns 

27 Schnozzola 47 Sweet potato 61 Partner of crafts7 Adjoined 
28 Holy war 48 Solid and sturdy 63 Basketball &Israel's Golda 
classifieds

29 One-celled 53 Capital of champion's 
9 Priests' places animal Bolivia "trophy" 10 Feasted JoVon a TV? 54 Lane &sOld salt 11 Second-story 36 Lariat 

..;::.+.::-f'!'!''t'!"' man 37 Matured 
Get answers to any three clues 
-=+:::+:-+=-1 12 Rainbow fish 39 Impetuous 
40 on an even keel by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
-=+:-+:-,+=-1 13 Hymnal contents 41 Beard of grain 5656 (75¢ each minute). 



Make checks payable to: The Observer 
The Observer 

and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
D Enclosed is $40 for one semesterCommunity. 
Name ____________________________________________
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address ______________________________________ _ 
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City-------State ____Zip______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, May 1, 1995 
Models gives NBT nothing but trouble 
• JOCK STRIP 
Williams 
keys 21-16 
victory 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
B BALL 
If you can walk the walk, then you can talk the talk. 
Models INC. began Bookstore Basketball XXIV as the No. 1 seed, remained No. 1 after the sweet 16 reseeding, told every­

Hats offto 
the award 
one that they were No. 1 and 

• ended the tournament as the 1995 champion. Along the way, 
Winners 
B 
Models Inc's Tracy Graham guaranteed a championship noookstore Basketball XXIV 
matter who or where theycame to a rather staid 
played.
conclusion yesterday, as 
Yesterday, Models INC.

No. 1 beat No. 2 in a 
proved that they were the bestgame that was and made Graham a prophet,well played yet as they beat NBT2 21-16 in

lacked the front of a huge crowd atdrama on the 
Stepan.

court that has "I knew we were going to win
characterized 
because man for man we hado t h e r 

Bookstore.________. the best team," said Graham. "I could put a guarantee on that
finals. The 
because we were so confident."

Jason Williams "You're allowed to be cockyled Models when you win," said NBT 2'sINC. squad was Mark Zataveski. 
simply that much better than 
"I never even thought aboutanyone else. 
losing until they hit 20," com­Still, this year's tournament had mented NBT's Mr. Bookstoreits share of memorable moments Joe Haigh. "It's disappointing,
and interesting personalities, 
because we expected to win." 
some of which are looked over by Graham became a sideline
the more traditional awards. 
cheerleader yesterday as
With this in mind, the Observer Renaldo Wynn stepped in foroffers its own Bookstore acco­Models. Wynn's physical pres­lades. 
ence, along with his five points,

The all-Freshman team. These The Observer/Mike Ruma made the difference in the
Owen Smith of Models INC. drives past NBT's Tom Rinehart for one of his four baskets during Models' 21­see WINNERS/ page 16 16 win. The victory backed up their claim that they were the best team in the tournament. 
see MODELS I page 17 

Blue team rejuvenated with halftime wake-up call 

By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Assistant Sports Editor 
When the Irish left the field for halftime, there were mur­murs of disappoint­ment and worry. How could the Blue team, made up of the first team offense and defense, end the first half with the scoreboard reading 0-0. 
Surely the offense missed the leader­ship of center Dusty Zeigler along the offensive line, but his absence shouldn't cripple them that much. What did this say about their chances against better defenses in the forth coming 1995 season. 
When the teams took to the 

field for the second half there was a noticeable difference. Mysteriously the Gold team had a 21-0 lead, and Lou Holtz had returned to the field from his seat in the press box. 
"It should have been 35-0 at halftime and then I would have had them switch jerseys," Holtz said of the score change. 
"They must have known that," he joked and then con­tinued. "But this shouldn't happen. We wanted to get the 
intensity up in the second half." 
Thus Holtz had to change the score himself and it worked. The blue offense woke up and 
see WAKE-UP/ page 16 
Monday, May 1 

Tuesday, May 2 Wednesday, May 3 
Thursday, May 4 
ND Softball vs. Northwestern, 
SMC Softball at Calvin College 

ND Baseball at Michigan, 7 p.m. No varsity spans today. 
3 p.m. 
4 p.m. 
ND Baseball at Central Michigan, 2p.m. 



