
Monday, February 20, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 90 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC class election candidates present platforms 
By BETH REGAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
As class election time rolls around again at Saint Mary's College, eandidatcs are not only hoping for a win. but also for a large voter turn out, according to senior class presidential can­didate Paulette Haczkowski. 
"Involvement is the key to our eleetion," said Haczkowski. "and involvement should start with the voters. We want more than 30 percent of our class to vote." 
The Paulette Haczkowski (president), Heather Durie (viee-president), Hobin Walsh (secretary) and Betsy Killian (treasurer) ticket claims that "We arc your future." 
If eleeted, their ticket will plan events such as a senior 
Tickets hope for high turnout at the polls 
elass trip to Chicago, interview­ing workshops, a senior service day, an all-campus charity ball, a diversity forum and a ski trip. 
Their ticket is also interested in implementing a newsletter and having an off-campus lia­son. 
"We want to make our senior year memorable," said Haczkowski. "We need to get everyone involved and so we have diverse ideas so that stu­dents can choose what they want to participate in." 
The Leanne Jones (president), Laurie Demattia (vice-presi­dent), Monica Moore (secretary) and Megan Reilly (treasurer) ticket wants to "bring it togeth­er" for a good senior year, according to Jones, the current president of Holy Cross Hall. 
"We know that seniors tend to worry a lot about the future, but we want to ensure a fun senior year and concentrate on the present," Jones said. 
Their ticket plans to imple­ment service projects with the Sisters of the Holy Cross. a se­nior class directory, class tail­gaters, a battle of the bands contest, a dance-a-thon for charity, an interview workshop, and a freshman/senior mentor program. 
"If elected, we will rely on help from everyone," Jones said. "Through our experience, we have learned that if you give pe_ople specific jobs then they 

By SONYA ROSS 
Associ.Jted Press 
NEW YORK 

Myrlic Evers-Williams, the new chairwoman of the NAACP, made it dear Sunday that she intends to take the beleaguered civil rights group back to its grassroots and the ordinary people who have kept it alive. 
An early priority is to create a newsletter from the chair­woman to let the rank and file know what's going on, she said. There will be appeals to corpo­rations to donate to NAACP programs -and reports to the 2,200 local branches who will run them. 
The operating theme is that Evers-Williams. 61, doesn't intend to forget the revolt that prompted the NAACP board of directors to elect her as its new leader, succeeding William Gibson. 
"The people who make up the NAACP were well-repre­sented here. They spoke, and the board members listened," she said. "The challenges that we face are great. We now have the unity and the sense of purpose to meet those chal­lenges head on." 
Gibson was toppled from the chairmanship Saturday after a raucous general session in which 700 angry members booed a treasurer's report they thought was false. Led by 90­year-old activist Enolia McMillian, the members de­livered a vote of no confidence in his leadership. 
Then, 300 members crashed the board's closed meeting, and refused to leave when Gibson attempted to limit the session to board members. 
Board members asked Evers­Williams to try to persuade them to allow a closed session. She did, and the members calmly left. 
"They stood up in unison and said, 'Only for you, Myrlie,"' said board member Joseph Madison. "If I were a board member sitting on the fence, that certainly would have swayed me." 
Gibson was defeated by one vote. After the election, President Clinton called Evers-Williams. 
"He spoke to the board mem­bers and said we all have a lot of work to do. and that he looked forward to working with us," she said. "People in the audience said, 'We need your help, too, Mr. President."' 
With Gibson gone, the National Association for the Ad­vancement of Colored People is turning its attention to a gathering in Washington this week to oppose parts of the GOP "Contract With America" and voice support for Dr. Henry Foster, nominee for surgeon general. 
The two-day gathering will bring the NAACP back into the national debate on civil rights, just as welfare reform and roll­backs of affirmative action are becoming big issues on Capitol Hill. 
"To the extent that the inter­nal debate has ended in the NAACP, we can now refocus our efforts," said Wade Henderson, the NAACP's lobby­ist in Washington. "The new chairperson is committed to re­vitalizing the (NAACP's) strength, which is found in its grassroots base." 
Simultaneously, Evers-Williams plans to put together a team to find a new executive di­rector to replace Benjamin Chavis, who was ousted last August. 
In the meantime, interim administrator Earl Shinhoster will serve as acting executive director. 
end up coming through for you. We hope to have a great year." 
There is only one ticket run­ning for the leadership posi­tions of the class of 1997: Leslie Field (president), Emily Ruffner (vice-president), Becky Kellogg (secretary) and Annie Korte (treasurer). 
The ticket has broken up its goals into three major areas: social goals including a jazz fest and video yearbook; issues in­cluding increases in women's health education; gender rela­tions and multiculturalism; and service including a tutoring team, a senior citizen sing-a­long and a Balloons for Kids program. 
"We are so excited to be 
working together for our class next year," said Field, a resi­dent of Holy Cross Hall. "We are open to any ideas and we are a solid group that knows how to get things accom­plished." 
There are three tickets run­ning for the offices of the class of 1998. 
The Marin Shaughnessy (president). Sarah Grudzinski (vice-president), Amy Moore (secretary) and Claire Konstant (treasurer) ticket wants to make improvements on the Saint Mary's campus in general as well as within their class and with relations with Notre Dame. 
"Our class will be here the longest," said Shaughnessy. "We have four years to make 
see ELECTIONS I page 6 

Rape defense program to boost women's options 
By LIZ FORAN 
Associate News Editor 

RAD may not be a widely cir­culated word on many college campuses these days, but al­though this may be an outdat­ed adjective, the techniques and terminology of a new pro­gram offered by Notre Dame Security bearing that name may be very modern and use­ful. 
The Rape Aggression Defense System (RAD) will be offered by Security to the women of the University community to help them "learn to be aware of their surroundings and how to recognize danger signals," ac­cording to Phil Johnson, Assis­
tant Director of Notre Dame Security.
RAD is a 12-hour program which uses lessons and discus­sion, including self-defense training, to teach women "a variety of responses to rape and aggression, including the use of defensive physical tac­tics," Johnson said. 
The RAD objective is "to de­velop and enhance the options of self-defense, so they may be­come viable considerations to the woman who is attacked." 
According to Johnson, the program teaches self defense techniques that require no spe­cial skills or equipment and "easily become instinctive with repetition." 
"The HAD program gives women the opportunity to test their abilities on a real person during a simulated attack," Johnson said. "It is an empow­ering experience for women to learn that they may have op­tions for physical defense if they choose to resist an attack." 
HAD is a national program which is offered at college campuses across the United States. "We wanted to offer crime prevention services, and we felt this was an appropriate program," Johnson said. "We looked at several programs be-
see RAD I page 6 


Showing the way 

Brother Sage explains the celebrations of Africa at the closing ceremoniesof African-American Culture Week on Sunday. 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Monday, February 20, 1995 
• iNSIDE COLUMN 
A look 
at 
leadership 

Lincoln. Washington. Here is greatness, stealing up through centuries as a shadow of what these men had been, and what had made them. Especially now it is comforting to realize that at some points their existence had been possible; and yet, there is the fear that we shall never again see their qualities, never be able to admire our present leaders, nor trust them. At least, not 
Rae Sikula 

as we trust in their pre­decessors. Viewpoint 
Perhaps each genera­Copy Editor tion has had the same worry; however, I doubt that modern America has known it more strongly than now, when the disillusioned voter demands such a shift in Congress but is still dissatisfied... Today there is no one, it seems, in government who is truly interested in governing. Apply the image of the illustrious lawmakers, debating with order, intelligence, with a willingness to do good; it no longer holds before the stark vision of a group set apart, quarreling over matters of power rather than of public bene­fit. They do not, we feel, know what it is like to be an American, here and now. Nor do they care: and this is what we most resent. 
Certainly it is not for lack of talent and fresh ideals; enough graduate from college to populate the nation with idealists, and, one would believe, to run it smoothly. Still, con­science is stifled and the novel visions put aside "for another day." And this is the work of the system work as well as the individual. 
Greatness was never systematic; all those we remember had moved outside of the struc­ture, attempting to build or to violently recon­struct it. But quietly within, there lies the danger; for beneath the lofty surface there must always be a scheme. In order to be heard, to carry out the dream, one must first have power-first cater to the party, to the powerful persons-first bargain for one more appointment, the backing of one more group, the security of one more vote-and it does involve far less conscience than compromise. Come, sell yourself, your ideals; only in this manner will you gain a chance to implement them. That is, if you get around to it. 
I am wrong, perhaps, to criticize, since I do not have an answer which could satisfy even myself. The tragedy is that, while the govern­ment can destroy what is most valuable in its officials, we also desperately need a system. It is, as ever, a most "necessary evil," and we cannot dispense with its mediocrity without razing some benefit as well. Destroying so that greatness will emerge, articulate some­thing in which we can believe-this is mad­ness, this is the chaos that we recognize in other histories of other places. But contrast it with stagnation and there is the difficulty, that link between stability and a slow, corrupting process, between the engaging cause and true misery to someone, somewhere. 
Always we must look to ourselves and hope we can withstand it-hope that the character instilled in us at home, and here at Notre Dame, can outlast the corrosion of politics­hope that we, as voters, can somehow recog­nize the efforts of those who refuse to play the game. And this influence will refine the sys­tem, render it a touch more noble. 
On this Presidents' Day let us look to the 
archives and know that our greatness must lie 
beyond. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TOilAY'S STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Brad Prendergast  Nicky Batilo  
Melanie Laflin  Production  
Sports  Kenya Johnson  
Joe Villinski  David Daiz  
Viewpoint  Accent  
Cisceley Elliot  Kim Massman  
Marge Houseman  Graphics  


• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Dole: Clinton using nomination to divide GOP on abortion 

Pope makes appeal for immigrants 
VATICAN CITY 
Residents of wealthy nations must make immigrants feel like their "brothers and sisters" and help them adjust to a new culture, Pope John Paul II said Sunday. The pontiff appealed for a climate of tolerance and assistance for immigrants, espe­cially those who leave their homelands because of poverty or unrest. "Those 

arriving from other nations need to feel that they are understood," the pope told a crowd of faithful in St. Peter's Square. "They should always be respected and loved as brothers and sisters." 
Survivors of Holocaust celebrate life 
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. 
In the 50 years since Benjamin Meed endured the tor­tures of Nazi death camps, he's lived a life filled with love, not hatred and vengeance. The terrors of the Holocaust are never far from mind for him and other survivors, but Meed wants the world to know he does not dwell on the past. "We did just the opposite, we cre­ated love, we married, we built families, homes and became an integral part of the Jewish and the American communities," Meed told Holocaust survivors Sunday. As Benjamin Meedzyrzecki, a Polish Jew from Czeslw, he survived the Warsaw ghetto, the Warsaw Uprising and concentration camps, where 6 million Jews died. Now, as Benjamin Meed, he heads the American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors, which put together the event that brought survivors together. 


Boy becomes victim of ice accident 
OMAHA, Neb. 

A 12-year-old boy who fell through the ice as he rode his bicycle on a frozen lake died Sunday, hours after a man drowned trying to save him. Ryan Harrison of Carter Lake, Iowa, died after spending the night on a respirator to help him breathe, a hospital spokeswoman said. Harrison and Kyle Phippen, also 12, had been rid­ing their new bikes Saturday when they fell through the ice on the Omaha shore of Carter Lake. Phippen pulled himself out and slid on his stomach to shore, about 120 feet, witnesses said. He was treated at a hospital for shock and cuts, then released. Michael Barrow, 33, heard the boys' screams and tried to save them but fell through the ice before he could reach them. 
Dole holds lead at one year mark 
MANCHESTER, N.H. 

A year before the voting begins, the Republicans who would be president staged a daylong debate Sunday that was mostly polite but offered glimpses at early disputes over abortion, taxes and just how much power Washington should surrender. First on the national Sunday news shows, then on a New Hampshire TV forum and finally at a state Republican dinner, the GOP prospects sought to position themselves as best suited to take on President Clinton in November 1996. The candi­dates hoped to make a favorable early impression in New Hampshire, where the leadoff primary of the 1996 campaign is scheduled one year from Monday. The events and campaigning served as the ceremonial start of the 1996 race, and two weekend polls put the stakes in perspective. 
Monday, Feb. 20 Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 20. 

C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

H  L  B!SSIITIJ  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Vi• Associated Preo  

Pressure 

0~§~ !:lG 
Butch Cabreros Tom Roland 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta  5340  Dallas  67 29  New Orleans 59 49  
Baltimore  5625  Denver  91 57  New York  54 33  
Boston  44 31  Los Angeles 82 70  Philadelphia 57 26  
Chicago  5824  Miami  84 72  Phoenix  83 53  
Columbus  6842  Minneapolis 38 15  St. Louis  56 39  

Monday, February 20, 1995 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 3 
Speaker suggests cutting influence, extent of IRS 


By SANDRA SOBIERAJ keep so many records, Gingrich Associa1ed Press said on CNBC's "Talk Live." The Georgia Republican's WASHINGTON "Contract With America" and 
First it was Big Bird, now it's campaign for smaller govern­the tax man. Add the Internal ment are credited with the wins Hevenue Service to the list of last November that gave Re­government publicans control of Congress. agencies And Gingrich shows no signs of N e w t letting up. Gingrich "I haven't backed off an would abolish inch," he said Saturday of his or replace. pledge to eliminate federal 
"Kick the funds to the Corporation for IHS out of Public Broadcasting, which airs your wallet the popular "Sesame Street." and out of "I am willing to try to find a y o u r way for them to survive," Gin­records," the grich added, "but not at the House speaker said Saturday. taxpayers' expense. Not a "Get back to an America free penny." from the IHS, in terms of day­He has suggested similar to-day micromanagement." fates for the National Endow­
Gingrich has already sug­ment for the Arts and Pell gested with varying degrees of grants to low-income college earnestness the elimination of students. 
the Education and Labor de­As for the Education Depart­partments, the Food and Drug ment, it "certainly has to be Administration, the Health Care looked at as being on the chop­Finance Administration and ping block," Gingrich said Sat­NASA. But is he really talking urday.. about abolishing the agency The speaker said he's consid­that will process some 115 mil­ering a proposal by Rep. Steve lion tax returns this year? Gunderson, H-Wis., that would 
"Eliminating it or reducing it merge the two departments so dramatically ... you've al­into a new Department of Edu­ways got to have some kind of cation and Training, eliminate revenue service, but you don't the Equal Employment Oppor­need to have one which is in tunity Commission and save an every single decision" and estimated $21 billion over five which requires taxpayers to years. 
CONFIDENTIAL PEER-LED 
SUPPORT MEETING tonight at 7:30 pm for LESBIAN & BISEXUAL WOMEN at SAINT MARY'S* 
FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE CALL 289-4063 before 6:45 pm 
*This meeting is open to women from both campuses. 
Notices  for  future  meetings  will  be  
appearing  in  the  Classified section  
-------­ 

ZZND Annual Summer Program ND,SMC Students 
London Rome May 24, June 23 June 18, July 17 
Courses offered in 

Psychology, Education,Business & Economics, History, Italian 
Informational & Organizational Meeting 
February 20, 6:30p.m. Library Auditorium Lounge 
Past student and faculty participants will be present. 
For information, call Prof. Black 284,4460 or 2 72,3 726 
Battle's heroes celebrate 50th 
By RON FOURNIER Associa1ed Press 

The battle for lwo Jlma 1!11!111~~-~~ 
Feb. 19-March 26, 1945 lwo Jlma, only eight square miles ot 
ARLINGTON, Va. ~!;~~rrt:J! t~e=z.tW~war 
II stretched Into 194r,most saw lwo Jima
Joined by aging heroes of 

~:t!d'CM1irar::~r~ ~"':,~~,~~~
Iwo Jima, President Clinton to keep it that way. On Feb. 19, Allies used equally precise 
honored soldiers bloodied and 

~r:'c'::,t!~:!r~~~s~~~b~r:&!';!'
killed 50 years ago in the sav­

commanded by MaJOr General Harry Schmidt was escorted by Admiral
age World War II battle. "The 

Spruance's 5th Fktet. Vtce Adm1ral Turner commanded the comb•ned operatiOO& and
dimensions of their struggle 

Ueutenanl General Holland M. Smith commanded the eKpedllionary troops. In
still stagger us," he said Sun­

all, 30,000 men from lhe 4th and 5th Marine Divisions would take part.
day. 
The president, in keynote remarks commemorating the 50th anniversary of the pivotal battle, paid tribute to four Iwo Jima survivors by name and urged Americans to honor the memories of all soldiers who fought for the tiny Pacific is­land. 
"To be worthy of that sacri­fice, we must determine in this time to remain the strongest nation in the world so that our freedom is never again threat­ened," Clinton told a crowd of about 3,000. 

With the monuments of Washington visible through a misty haze over the Potomac River, the president said, "And we must work to create a nation worthy of the generation that saved it for our freedom." 
He spoke beneath a 78-foot bronze statue depicting the fa­mous wartime photograph of 
U.S. soldiers hosting a flag atop Mount Suribachi. "Hard men wept when they saw the flag fly," Clinton said. 

6,821 dead. For the Japanese, halting voice, he told dozens ofThe Associated Press photo the toll was even more grue­fellow veterans in the crowd: "Iby Joe Rosenthal symbolized some. Of the island's 20,000 am older now, as are you, but I
the nation's resolve, Clinton 

defenders, only 1,083 survived. can still see the colors of thatsaid. "Our country saw the true Thousands of the dead are still February morning. The sky.
definition of courage." 

missing, their bones hidden in The island. And sometimes IThe Battle of Iwo Jima, one of the volcanic island's intricate think I can still hear the noisethe nation's bloodiest, gave the web of tunnels. of battle."
United States an air base for Introducing the president, Clinton, who avoided wartimelong-range bombing missions Medal of Honor winner Col. service in his youth, told an­against mainland Japan. 

William E. Barber shared his other generation's war stories.
In 36 days, U.S. casualties 

memories of "that 8-mile chunk He said Robert Dunlap, for 48
numbered 26,000, including 
of rock and volcanic ash." In a hours straight, directed attacks 

THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM 
SUBMISSION FOR TilE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRfTICISM ARE INVITED FROM ALL NOTRE DAME GRADUATE AND UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS. ESSAYS MUST TREAT A TOPIC IN ART HISTORY OR CRITICISM. ONLY TOPICS DEALING WITH THE VISUAL ARTS .AR:E ELIGIBLE. TilE PRIZE CARRIES A CASH'AWARD OF UP TO $500. RULES MAY BE OBTAINED IN ROOM 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 
ENTRIES ARE DUE 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY BY 3:00 PM ON FRIDAY, MARCH 31 
against enemy positions at Iwo Jima. The president marveled at Douglas Jacobson, who grabbed a bazooka built for two and destroyed 16 enemy posi­tions by himself. Joseph Mc­Carthy charged through an open field with a carbine and grenades, Clinton said, and Jack Lucas threw himself on two grenades to save his bud­dies. 
With the four heroes seated in the front row, at the base of a muddy hill beside the monu­ment, Clinton said, "For all Americans today -for those who still defend our liberty in uniform, and those who fight for decency and civility in our towns and communities -the men and women of Iwo Jima will forever stir our hearts, spur our conscience and sum­mon us to action." 

Please come to hear REV. EDWARD A. MALLOY C.S.C 
Speak on 

--~--------~--~--~ ~~­
page 4 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 20, 1995 
Attn: ClluJb IL~~cdl~Jr~ Club Registration packets may now be picked up at eitherthe Office of Student Activities or the Club Coordination Council Deadline to turn in: March 9,1995 *Any packets received after this date will not be considered for funding.  


....-----------------------------------~--~~--~------------------­
Monday, February 20, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Defense attorney fears for Christian boy's safety 


great scores••• 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
c•t • higher score 
Kaplan helps you focus your LSAT studies and build your confidence so you can get a 
Join the 
KAPLAN 
• Nl clocumenfed In the May 1994 ~.., LSAT Pertonnance Sludy coooocted by Price Waterhouse.
higher score.

Notre Dame 


great scores••• 
Council on 

----------..
I 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST

International 
Kaplan helps you focus your ••t•higher' score 
MCAT studies and build your confidence, so you can get a higher score. 
KAPLAN
Business 



Introducing . .• 
a revolutionary new
Development 
GMAT course. 
Caii:1-8QO-KAP-TEST 
geta higher score 

Gain the Global Advantage 
TARGETED TRAINING isthemost customized, flexible approach to GMAT study ewr. 

KAPLAN 


great scores•••

Open Meeting 

·---------·
Tuesday, February 21, 1995 
t 
1-80Q-KAP-TEST
7:00 p.m. 

Kaplan helps you focus your c•t • higher score GRE studies and build your
DeBartolo Hall, Room I 02 
confidence so you can get a 
KAPLAN
higher score. 

Chechen cease-fire expires 
By CHRIS BIRD Anatoly Kulikov said in a state­The bodies of 18 Russian ser­Associated Press ment. vicemen killed during the truce Russia's peace proposals in were brought to the main mili­GOYITY, Russia the 10-week-old war have tary base at Mozdok just out­
The cease-fire in Chechnya amounted to virtual demands side Chechnya, the !TAR-Tass expired as the sun went down for Chechen disarmament. news agency reported from the Sunday, and the first hours of Chechen President Dzhokhar base. darkness were rent by explo­Dudayev has been no more Meanwhile, Dudayev's loyal­sions that promised a resump­flexible, saying that he is ists were setting up pockets of tion of the war in all its ferocity. "unconditionally" ready for resistance in settlements to the 
Heavy explosions were heard peace -except for the condi­east of Grozny. the press ser­every few minutes in this town tion that Russia withdraw its vice said. about 10 miles south of the troops. In the capital. Russian ar­Chechen capital, Grozny, but it tillery. mortars and tanks 
could not be determined which Moscow's government press shelled Chechen-held areas into side was firing. service said the Chechens the early hours Sunday. the Earlier. as the live-day truce breached the truce with an at­Interfax news agency reported. was in its final hours. Russian tempt to force their way into Dudayev's military aide Musa and Chehchen rebel officials downtown Grozny late Saturday Merzhuyev, speaking to Inter­reportedly consulted by tele­and with attacks on Russian fax. blamed the Russians for vi­phone to arrange another positions in the city's southern olating the cease-fire by re­round of talks. outskirts. peated artillery bombardments 
But the Russian commander It said Russian forces of Chechen positions around said his side "has exhausted "blocked and eliminated" 80 Grozny. existing possibilities to stop Chechen fighters who at­Interfax said representatives 
armed conflict." tempted an assault from the from both sides were in tele­Hussia must now "take ade­south, using mortars, grenade phone contact Sunday to de­
quate measures," Col. Gen. launchers and small arms. termine if and when peace talks should be resumed, and Merzhuyev said even "this illu­
''Religious Commitment and 
sory chance" should not be wasted.
Economic Analysis: 
Russian Prime Minister Viktor 
Are they Compatible?" 
Chernomyrdin said Sunday that Moscow wanted to continue
Professor Rebecca Blank 
negotiations and solve the con­flict by political means.
Dept. ofEconomics, Northwestern University 
"We favor continuing the ne­gotiating process," !TAR-Tass
Feb. 21 at 7 p.m. 

quoted Chernomyrdin as saying in Kaliningrad on his return
117 DeBartolo 

from a trip to Poland. "The bloodshed must be Sponsored by: Department of Economics 
stopped and everything must be solved by political methods, not
and Omicron Delta Epsilon 
force," Chernomyrdin said. "But this unfortunately depends not only on us, but also upon
All Majors Welcome! 
the opposing side." 
By KATHY GANNON 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 
Even in a squalid prison cell on death row, the 14-year-old Christian boy sentenced to hang for insulting Islam isn't safe, his defense attorney said Sunday. 
"I am very, very apprehen­sive," the attorney, Hina Jilani, told The Associated Press in a telephone interview from La­hore. 
"That's why we want to get this trial over as soon as possi­ble. His safety is a real source of tension." 
Salamat Masih's appeal hearing resumes Monday in the Lahore High Court. 
Salamat never leaves the cell he shares with his uncle, Rehmat Masih, 40, also sen­tenced to hang for allegedly writing anti-Islamic graffiti on a mosque wall in 1993. Salamat's other cellmate is a convicted murderer. 
A filthy hole in a corner of the cell is the bathroom, said Bishop Samuel Azariah, of the multi-denominational Church of Pakistan. following a visit with Salamat on Sunday. 
"The conditions are really bad," h.e said. "The food is bad. It smells and it's not very hygienic." 
A third person accused in the case, Manzoor Masih, was shot and killed outside a Lahore court last April as he waited for his police protection to arrive. 
Just a year ago in the same cell bloc where Salamat has been spending his days since his conviction nearly a week ago, another inmate accused of blasphemy was killed, said Ji­lani. No one was ever arrested. 
Human rights organizations, including Amnesty I-nterna­tional. have sharply criticized Pakistan's blasphemy laws in­troduced in the 1980s by mili­tary dictator Gen. Mohammed Zia-ul Haq. 
"These laws are developing hatred among people," said Bishop Azariah. "They are building walls between peo­ple." 
There are about 2 million Christians in Pakistan. Most of the country's 130 
million  people  are  Sunni  
Muslims.  
Prime  Minister  Benazir  

Bhutto has expressed shock at the death sentence, but said she won't intervene. 
Watched closely by militant Muslims, the case has under­lined the apparent weakness of Ms. Bhutto's government to deal with Pakistan's small, but vocal extremists. 
Each day, mobs of Muslim militants wearing green tur­bans -the color associated with Islam -gather outside the Lahore High Court, where Salamat's and his uncle's ap­peal is being heard. 
They shout abuses at the lawyers, threatening them and the judges with death. 
The U.S.-based Human Rights Watch is sending an ob­server to the appeal in Lahore. 
On Sunday, Bishop Azariah took Salamat's mother to visit her son. 

-----~ -----------------------------~·-------------~---------------­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, February 20, 1995 
Smithsonian defends decision to dump exhibit 
By MIKE FEINSILBER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

War historian Paul Fussell was a 21-year-old infantry lieu­tenant in France in the summer of 1945. Wounded in the legs and the back, he still got orders to prepare for the forthcoming invasion of Japan, a battle too dreadful to contemplate. 
And then came Hiroshima. 

"We cried with relief and joy," he recalled years later. "We were going to live. We were going to grow up to adult­hood after all." 
Rarely does an entire people 

Elections 
continued from page 1 
an impact, so I think that it is important for us to develop a plan now." 
The ticket's platform includes improving access to Morreau tunnels and the Douglas Road entrance at Saint Mary's, get­ting computers and printers in every dorm, creating a success­ful recycling program, produc­ing a class newsletter, having open council meetings, and having a year-long community service project with the YWCA. 
"We are also interested in continuing to improve relations with Notre Dame," Shaugh­nessy said. "As the current freshman class president, I have worked a lot with the freshman class government at Notre Dame and want to con­tinue to make realistic strides next year." 
The Sarah Corkrean (presi­dent), Roseann Bour (vice pres­ident), Katie Macdonald (secre­
' 

share a single emotion. But as it became clear that the A-bomb meant the war would soon be over, virtually every American greeted the atomic attack of Japan with joy, relief, thanks­giving. 
Over the years, others devel­oped more ambiguous feelings. The bomb introduced the nu­clear age; the nuclear age be­came an era of fear. Questions were raised about the need for a democracy to have used this terrible weapon. Could there have been a demonstration bombing? Would Japan have surrendered anyway, without an invasion? 
tary) and Carrie Koontz (trea­surer) ticket "feels the winds of change at Saint Mary's for the class of 1998" as their slogan states. 
"We want to unify the class through activities. We also want to give our class a name early on," said Corkrean. 
This ticket is planning on uni­fying their class through career seminars, fundraisers, theme dances, monthly forums, newsletters, retreats, dinners, and aerobics. 
"We have past leadership ex­periences and capabilities to put our ideas into action," said Bour. "We picked ideas that are realistic and that we know we can implement." 
The final ticket running for the leadership positions of the class of 1998 is comprised of Ellen Coleman (president), Debbie Dziekan (vice presi­dent), Katie Mahon (secretary) and Meghan McNally (treasur­er). 
"We hope that we are given the chance to serve our class," said Coleman. "The 'Know your council' premise is one 
Last month, a museum ex­hibit about these issues fell vic­tim to the emotions they still evoke. To the Smithsonian In­stitution, custodian of America's collective memory, Hiroshima became a story too hot to tell. 
Bowing to pressure from Congress and veterans' groups, Smithsonian leaders junked the exhibition about the Enola Gay, the B-29 that bombed Hi­roshima and launched the nu­clear age. Only the fuselage of the plane is to be shown. 
Smithsonian Secretary I. Michael Heyman said the ex­hibit had two irreconcilable 
that we believe in because the opinions and ideas of our class­mates count. That is why we are in office." 
If elected, this ticket is plan­ning to start a comprehensive recycling program, open gov­ernment meetings to everyone in their class, find a way to get improved television reception in the dorms, offer self-defense classes, get voice mail or call waiting, and plan interaction between Notre Dame, Holy Cross College and IUSB. 
The ticket also plans to im­plement a volunteer program at either the YWCA or the homeless shelter, a committee on multi-culturalism, and a Mass on Saturdays. 
"We will place priority on those activities that are going to take a long time to imple­ment and that will benefit the College in the long run," said Coleman. 
Class elections will be held tomorrow in the dining hall at breakfast and lunch and in the off-campus lounge in Madeleva for those students living off­campus . 
•• ·<:::.. .. -----•• 
t Take <1 < =ha.nce t 
r t Applications Available for the A t 
\ SAB Coordinatorfa Duties: How to Apply:fl' * Leader of the ,Student Activities ,B.oard * Pick up applications at the  \ •fl'  
•­1'  * Advise board members bringing programs to campus  Haggar Front Desk * Applications must be returned  •­1'  
t :~~;!~i;:~~=~;t Government  * s;~:~~!~~~~ni~~;:;; time  t  

"" 

goals -to honor the valor of intended to make veterans feel the soldiers who fought the war good," Crouch asked, "or do and to reassess the Enola Gay's you want an exhibition that will heritage. lead our visitors to think about 
Veterans and their families the consequences of our atomic "were not looking for analysis" bombing of Japan? Frankly I do he said, "and frankly we did not think we can do both." not give enough thought to the Why not? If a high school his­intense feelings such an analy­tory book can offer a non-con­sis would evoke." troversial account of Hiroshima, 
Heyman's conclusion was why couldn't the Smithsonian? foreshadowed early on in a note Museums have changed their from curator Tom Crouch to view of their role in society. museum director Martin Har­They are not satisfied just dis­wit, a memo promptly leaked by playing stuff -arrow heads, internal critics. (The museum moon rocks, airplanes. The staff has declined to be inter­Smithsonian bristles at being viewed about the controversy.) described as "the nation's at­
"Do you want to do an exhibit tic." 
RAD 
continued from page 1 

fore deciding on RAD. It is a good program and appropri­ately addresses safety concerns of women. 
"Three University of Notre Dame police officers are certi­fied to provide RAD Systems training," Johnson added. "The certification process included forty hours of classroom and physical training, study of self defense literature and a written examination." 
Officers Jerome Keultjes, Sue Tullos and Sgt. Laurie Steffen attended the certification train­ing for the RAD program at the University of Kentucky in order to provide the instruction to women on campus. 
A pilot class involving mem­bers of the Hall Presidents' Council concluded on Saturday, February 11. Hilary Bonen­berger, co-chairman of the council and RAD participant, strongly urges others to sign up for the program. 
"RAD gave me an unbeliev­able sense of confidence," Bo­nenberger said. "If I'm ever in a situation where I might have to defend myself, I know I can do it." 
"I was really skeptical at first," said Beth Hanlon, co­president of Knott Hall. "I fig­ured, what could they show us that wouldn't be common sense? 
"(The class) gave hands on training, which really gives you confidence," she added. "In a situation, as long as you don't panic, you can get out of it." 
Additional classes will be available as staffing and de­mand will allow, Johnson said. The next session is scheduled for Tuesday, February 28, Thursday, March 2, and Satur­day, March 4. The class time is from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Tues­day and Thursday and from 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Saturday. Class size is limited to 20 women 
To sign up for RAD sessions or for more information, con­tact Johnson at 631-8338. 


\ If you have any questions please contact Audrey Comrie (SAB Coordinator) \t x5343 or Marlene Johnson (Assistant Director of Student Activities) x4562. 



------------------~----­
CAMPUSES 
Monday, February 20, 1995 page 7 
Students push for latin studies at South Florida 
By KATHY HAUSMANN Center. he said. and faculty members met for five years and will include rec­ies. Instead, students can Assislant Campuses Edi1or Although there are some what was the first of several ommendations regarding cur­obtain a Latin American stud­courses offered, USF still has meetings designed to create a riculum, exchange programs, ies certificate. Undergraduate
Some University of South 

one of the weakest programs in comprehensive plan to boost local partnerships, interna­certificate studies require stu­Florida Hispanic students don't 
Florida, said Harry Vanden, di­Latin American studies at USF. tional partnerships, distance dents to complete four core know where they come from, 
rector of USF's Caribbean and This week, the deans repre­learning, conferences and courses and five additional and wish they had the oppor­
Latin American Studies Center. senting every college will be seminars, and a communica­elective classes that emphasizetunity to explore their heritage. According to Vanden, USF sending ideas to the Academic tion plan. subjects such as Latin Ameri­According to Jorge has no money set aside for a Affairs office describing how USF has several ingredients can history and geography. Caraccioli, Latin American 
Latin American studies pro­each college can participate, already in place for a strong On the graduate level, focus Student Association president, gram. Throughout the years, along with a list of faculty who Latin American studies pro­on Latin America within the many USF llispanic students 
the center has received little, if could be involved in the plan­gram, such as the nine to 12 liberal arts' master's programthirst for this history. With 
any, administrative support, he ning. Latin American students in­is also being developed. more in-depth college courses 
said. A task force that will develop volved in a USF doctorate pro­Besides money, another offered, students would get the 
The only university backing the framework of the plan will gram, and faculty members essential for a strong programchance to learn about their 
for the center comes from be formed later this month. who frequently travel to Latin is for the university to hire heritage. Several students in 
USF's International Affairs The plan will then be sent to America to do research. someone in a full-time positionLASA signed a petition last Center. Vanden said money is the provost, and a draft of the Vanden said USF does not to develop funding and support. week in support of more cours­
essential for a strong program. comprehensive plan is expected now offer students an -USF Oracle reporter Connie es and of the USF Caribbean 
Last Thursday an ad hoc by the end of the semester. undergraduate or graduate Lopez contributed to this arti­and Latin American Studies committee of administrators The plan will cover the next degree in Latin American stud-cle. 
Students protest 
• ' ' .·;}lfl;*• '~ . ; i..

Delaware implements 
Georgia Tech seeks Olympic volunteers· 
name of new 

new loan program 
In preparation for the the upcoming Olympic games in
biology building 
Atlanta, students from the Georgia Tech Olympic Coalition Assismm Campuses Editor loans is shortened a great 
By KATHY HAUSMANN length of processing time for 
are among the 100,000 applicants who hope to receive some deal. and students receive 
By KATHY HAUSMANN 

of the 40,000 volunteer jobs available during the Summer The University of Delaware their money faster," Burton 
Assislant Campuses Editor 

Games. Near:ly 1000 students. faculty, staff, and alumni are involvedhas been selected to partici­explained. 
Only one demonstrator was 
in the>school's volunteer force which recently received a Goldpate in the new Federal Direct The University also benefits 
arrested by University of Texas 
Metal for its volunteer efforts, including its involvement with Student Loan Program begin­by receiving funds faster, he 
police officers Monday after a 
the Atlanta Food Bank. Trees Atlanta, and the Georgia Games ning in the 1995-96 academic continued, and, if a student 
rally protesting the University's 
prog:ra.ms.

year. making it one of the first needs to make a change in the 
affiliation with developer Jim 
Volunteer applications will be reviewed by the Atlanta Com­schools to participate in the amount of his or her loan, it 
Bob Moffett. The new molecu­
mittee for the Olympic Games which will conduct a selectioncan now be done in a matter ofnew streamlined system to re­
lar biology building, slated to 
process that includes an interview of potential volunteers that structure the nation's student days, instead of weeks. loan programs. Students can qualify for the 
begin construction in July, will 
have shown a commitment to the quality of their work rather Under the new program, the same amounts of money under 
than.a certain quantity of hours of volunteering. Those who are selected as volunteers will make a two-week be named after Moffett and his 
wife. loans directly to students under the old system, Burton 
federal government provides the new program as they did commitment to working at the games or possibly a six-week
Moffett, who donated $2 mil­
commitment that would include volunteering in the Olympicsaid. Students new to the Uni­
lion toward the building's con­through private lenders. By versity will automatically be
through schools rather than Village. Also. workers will have the opportunity to volunteer

struction, has been criticized 
with the Paralympic Games following the Olympics in a com·
eliminating some agencies­enrolled in the new system. 
for his involvement in devel­
ntitnl.ent that would not be as long as for the Summer Games. 
such as guaranty agencies, and students who are already 
opment projects in the Barton secondary markets, banks and 
enrolled and have a loan histo­
Creek Watershed, prompting
others-direct lending elimi­ry under the present system 
the Save Our Springs water 
Northwestern wins PhD denial case
nates excess profits, while re­will be strongly encouraged to 
quality ordinance in 1992.

ducing administrative burdens switch, Burton said. 
Freeport-McMoRan, Moffett's
and increasing efficiency to "There are such great An Illinois Appellate Court ruled that Northwestern Uni­
New Orleans-based company.
make borrowing easier for stu­advantages to students who versity did not act arbitrarily in denying a doctoral student's
also has been targeted by envi­
participate in Direct Lendingdents. 
request for readmission with an extension of time to complete
ronmentalists for the com­
The new program will bene­that we expect nearly every­her dissertation.
pany's mining practices in In­
fit students by eliminating one will choose to switch," he Graduate student Marilyn Bilut sued the university and
donesia and accused of dump­
paper checks that need said. 

Professor Gerald Canter, Bilut's supervising professor in the endorsement, said Johnie Approximately half of the 
ing toxic waste into the Missis­
communications department, after failing to complete her Burton, director of financial full-time undergraduates at sippi River. 
doctoral program between 1984 and 1989.
the University receive someaid at UD, because the funds 
About 50 demonstrators from 
Uponreviewing Bilut's dissertation prospectus, Canter and 
will be transferred elec­form of financial aid, and 
Earth First!, the Student Envi­
ot.l:ter fac,Uty members in the communications departmentapproximately 6,000 students
tronically into student 

found it to be unacceptable. Tht~ department's faculty then
ronmental Action Coalition,
accounts. will be affected by this new rejected Bilut's request for an extension beyond the required
and the Environmental Faction, 
"With this program, the program. 
five years to complete a Ph.D.
a UT student organization, 
In its decision, the court stated, "We believe that private col­
gathered on the West Mall 
leges and universities must be accorded a generous measure
Monday to protest the naming 
of autonomy with respect to the establishment. maintenance,
Med school cleared of 
of the new Louise and James R. 
and enforcement of academic standards. The right of a stu·
Moffett Molecular Biology 
dent to attend a private college or university is subject to the Building. 
condition that the student comply with its academic re·
discrimination charges 
Earth First! member Rodney 
quirements."Webb said UT officials gave his 
The appellate court decision reversed a 1992 decision by a organization permission to
By MARCY DINIUS the school, according to Robert 
Cook County circuit judge ordering the university to readmit write with chalk on the build­
Campuses Edi1or Daugherty. Dean of the School 
Bilut and to grant her a two-year extension to complete her After a year-long investiga­Of the 1000 applications that ings, but UT police deny that 
of Medicine. 
degree. 

tion by the Office of Civil Rights the school has received since permission was granted. in U.S. Department of 1991, only 208 could be ac­"Certainly people have a 
Students erotest gay bashing at PSU
Education, the University of cepted. right to express their opinion Nevada School of Medicine has Out of the total number of on issues, but the decision [to 
In response to· reports of an incident in which four women
been cleared or radal discrimi­applicants, 84 qualified as name the building after 
were reportedly harassed and attacked by a group of men andnation charges that was re­minority students, with 24 ac­
Moffett] was made some time 
one woman making anti-lesbian remarks, the Penn Statequested by state Senator Joe cepted and 18 enrolling. 
ago" by the UT System Board 
group Direct Impact via Action recently sponsored an anti-vio­Neal who questioned the small In an effort to increase mi­
of Regents, Sharpe said. 

lence demonstration at the intersection where the incidentnumber of minorities, espe­nority enrollment, the school is 
After Environmental Faction 
was said to have occurred. 
cially African-Americans participating in the nationwide Advertisements announcing the protest stated that the inci­
members left the rally area,
admitted to the school in "Project 3000 by 2000" which dent involved 20 men and one woman who attacked a group
Earth First! supporters de­
recent years. is a medical school effort to of lesbian women, stating "Shame and fear have kept us quiet
stroyed television sets and
The investigation concluded double the number of minority until now. Enough is enough!" 
that the low number of minor­students by the year 2000. marched through campus, first Though there have been previous incidents involving anti·ity students enrolled in the Also. the school is sponsoring to the future site of the molecu­gay activities, this attack was thought to have been the first in medical school is not due to a a one-week residential pro­lar biology building on Speed­State College to focus on women.
racially-discriminatory admis­gram for high-school students way and then to the Geology Members of the anti-violence group hoped to make students sions policy, citing the plan for and minority research appren­Building, where one demon­and area residents realize that "State College is not a pristineactive minority recruitment ticeship and partnership pro­
strator was stopped by UT po­
place, that violence does occur and that it (must) be stopped," that the school currently has In grams with area high schools. 
lice for writing on walls with a 
as student Carrie Kosa, a friend of one of the victimizedplace. 
permanent marker. 
women stated.

The low enrollment rates for Sagebrush reporter Sandra 
Addison Deitz and Charul
minorities is primarily the Danovan contributed to this 
Vyas from the Daily Texan
cause of a lack of funding at article. 
staffcontributed to this article. 
-------------~----~----~--------------~-----~------:---------~---------------:_:_ 
VIEWPOINT 
8 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of rhe Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither insrimtion. The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned ediJ torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaric:s, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios. nd.ed u 
r 
,r 
, 

Monday, February 20, 1995 


r 
r 
r ROTC sets standards of noble conduct for ND 
r 
r 
Should ROTC be thrown out of ther r University? Maybe this question sur­faced in recent Observer discussions
r
, because January and February are a lit­
r tle slow around here. However, the 
r moment ought not to pass without some 
r effort to note the vacuity of the claim 
r that ROTC is inconsistent with the mis­sion of a university that claims to be~ Catholic. ,r The honorable military service of 
one's country is in the highest Christian 
r 
tradition. From the earliest days of the Christian era, the legitimacy of military 
f 
r service has been recognized by tradition r and the teaching Church. When John r the Baptist was asked by newly convert­r ed soldiers, "And we -what are we to 
r 
do?" he did not tell them to quit the army. He told them how to behave as Christian soldiers: "plunder no one, accuse no one falsely, and (perhaps most important today) be content with your pay." [Luke, 3:14] Similarly, St. Paul did not demand that newly convert­ed Christians who were soldiers must leave that profession. Instead he said, "Let every man remain in the calling in which he was called." [1 Col, 7 :20] The general understanding of the early Christians that military service was con­sistent with their Christianity is shown by the fact that they served in large numbers in the armed forces of Rome. 
Indeed, the Emperor Galerius, at the beginning of the fourth century, under­took to purge the army of Christians because, in his opinion, there were too many of them in it. There were Christian pacifists who drew support from such theologians as Tertullian, Origen, and Lactantius, but they reflected neither the dominant Christian view nor the teaching of the Church. 
Through the centuries, the Catholic Church has consistently taught that war can be justified under proper conditions and that therefore military service is consistent with Christian belief. As St. Thomas Aquinas said, "Just as it is law­ful for (those in authority) to have recourse to the sword in defending that common weal against internal distur­bances, when they punish evil-doers .... so too, it is their business to have recourse to the sword of war in defend­ing the common weal against external enemies." [Summa Theologica, II, II, Q. 40]. The Second Vatican Council affirmed this principle: "Certainly, war has not been rooted out of human affairs. As long as the danger of war remains and there is no competent and sufficiently powerful authority at the international level, governments cannot be denied the right to legitimate defense once every means of peaceful settlement 

Charles Rice 
has been exhausted. Therefore, govern­ment authorities and others who share public responsibility have the duty to protect the welfare of the people entrusted to their care and to conduct such grave matters soberly.." Gaudium et Spes, No. 79. 
It follows from this duty of the state to defend the common good against exter­nal enemies that members of the armed forces, in the words of Vatican II, "should regard themselves as agents of security and freedom on behalf of their people. As long as they fulfill this role properly, they are making a genuine contribution to the-establishment of peace." When Pope Paul VI addressed the United Nations in 1965, he made his dramatic plea for peace: "War never again!" But many overlooked his caution in that address that, "As long as man remains that weak, changeable and even wicked being that he often shows himself to be, defensive arms will, unfortunately, be necessary." No one, of course, supports the objective of peace more than the military personnel who are called upon to fight the wars. By contrast, those who deny the legitimacy, indeed the nobility, of the military call­ing tend to reflect an unrealism con­ducive not to genuine peace but to sub­jugation. As Pope John Paul II said in his 1982 World Day of Peace message: 
"Christians know that in this world a totally and permanently peaceful human society is unfortunately a utopia, and that ideologies that hold up that prospect as easily attainable are based on hopes that cannot be realized, what­ever the reason behind them.... Christians are convinced, if only because they have learned from personal experi­ence, that these deceptive hopes lead straight to the false peace of totalitarian regimes ... This is why Christians, even as they strive to resist and prevent every form of warfare, have no hesitation in recalling that, in the name of an elemen­tary requirement of justice, peoples have a right and even a duty to protect their existence and freedom by propor­tionate means against an unjust aggres­sor." 
This clear teaching of the Catholic tra­dition was included in the new Catechism of the Catholic Church, issued by John Paul II. It affirmed the position of Vatican II, quoted above, that "gov­ernments cannot be denied the right of lawful self-defense, once all peace efforts have failed." No. 2308. "[T]hose holding authority have the right to repel by armed force, aggressors against the community in their charge." No. 2266. See No. 2309 for the conditions for "legitimate defense by military force," i.e., the "just war." 
"Public authorities should make equi­table provision for those who for rea­sons of conscience refuse to bear arms; these are nonetheless obliged to serve the human community in some other way." No. 2311. However, "[P]ublic authorities [in a just war]...have the right and duty to impose on citizens the obligations necessary for national 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• llOONESBURY 

defense. Those who are sworn to serve their country in the armed forces are servants of the security and freedom of nations. If they carry out their duty favorably, they truly contribute to the common good of the nation and the maintenance of peace." No. 2310 (Emphasis in Catechism). 
At Notre Dame, we tend to give uncrit­ical respect to the pacifist position. Its proponents are sincere but their posi­tion is fatally flawed. The pacifist says that he would rather die at the hands of an aggressor than defend himself by force. But the nobility of that position fades when we realize that the pacifist would consign the helpless and innocent to death or servitude rather than come to their defense. The New York Times, on February 6th, reported that the Khmer Rouge rebels "still torment Cambodia 20 years after their rampage" in 1975 killed at least 2 million Cambodians. 
If military force exercised by proper authority in 1975 could have saved the Cambodian people from two decades of Khmer Rouge oppression and terror, what would have been the Christian position-to use that force to protect their freedom against the unjust aggres­sor, or to stand by, let those people dis­appear into slavery and salve one's con­science later on by sending food pack­ages to such of them as might still be alive? Not only is pacifism not a dictate of Christianity. Pacifism is an unwork­able and base creed unworthy of any people, Christian or otherwise, who would remain free. 
The mission of the ROTC is to prepare students to conduct the honorable and necessary defense of the common good. The ROTC not only is appropriate to the University of Notre Dame. It honors Notre Dame by its presence. 
Prof Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Monday. 
• QUOTE Of THE (JAy 
''Not only is their no God, but try getting a plumber on weekends." 
-Woody Allen 
-~-­

VIEWPOINT
Monday, february 20, 1995 page 9 
• LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
GLND/SMC gains DlODlentuDl, and exposure Opposition 
Dear Editor: 
The University. What is its purpose'? What does it stand for'? Why does it exist? Com­ing from a somewhat progres­sive institution, I have always thought that at least one pur­pose of a University was to broaden it's students' horizons, to make them aware of and re­sponsivn to a wide array of cul­tural, polilieal. and soeial views through exposure to different people and eultures and through profound intellectual debatn. 
By disbanding GLND/SMC, your administrators have shown that they disagree with this definition. Apparently they feel that truth and understand­ing is not something that should be eome to through dia­logun and dnbate-your admin­istrators know what is right and will teaeh you Truth with­out aecepting dissent. 
The administration of Notre Dame had unfortunately fallen prey to a climate of ho­mophobic hysteria that is sweeping aeross the country. By not accepting the role of a University to challenge hatred, intoleranee, and bigotry through knowledge, they have instead ehosen to contribute to 
it. 
The gay, lesbian, and bisexu­al civil rights movement has long adopted the Biblical proverb, "The truth shall set you free." Apparently, your administrators (my oppressors) understand this proverb as well, and are hard at work try­ing to keep the truth from be­ing !ward. 
SETH PERSILY 

President of Gay, Bisexual and Lesbian 
Association 
Duke University 

voiced from Bucknell 
Dear Editor: 
Please accept my urging in the spirit of Christian charity. Gay and Lesbian students, at your university and mine are under incredible pressure to hid and lie and hate them­selves. 
Your university, like mine, has seen the need for solace and safety, even though sexual orientation may seem to us to make them different, perhaps even sinful. 
It is not up to us to make this judgment. Your withdrawal of your support for their rights and dignity joins hoards of mindless others who rush to judgment, feel self-righteous, and have none of what we say Christianity teaches us: humili­ty and love. 
ERNEST KEEN Professor of Psychology Bucknell University 


Dear Editor: 

We write in response to Jef­frey Vanderwilt's recent edito­rial on the controversy about the homosexual group. Mr. Vanderwilt denounced campus officials who "conveniently sup­press the 1st and 5th Amendment Rights of students to free expression and free as­sembly for peaceable ends." 
Mr. Vanderwilt, a note on the law: these eonstitutional pro­visions bind only governmental 
Attempt at humor goes bad 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to express my sincerest distress regarding the section of your .January 30 edition of the Observer. I always thought that this was a factual paper that ranked among the best col­lege publications. 
However, after I saw your section about worst dating experiences, I real­izml that I was sorely mistaken. I care­fully read one quote given by a fresh­man named Brian Molinaro. 
I was there when the photographer took his picture and quote. I now real­ize that the Observer cannot be taken 
' I myself read the Observer 
fairly faithfully and base many of my opinions on the supposed "facts" from the Observer's reporting. If I base my opinions on these facts, it is fairly evident that a number of other students must do the same.' 
as fact because the quote that Brian gave was nothing like the quote that you printed. The representation of his story in the Observer was a heinous misinterpretation. 
I myself read the Observer fairly faith­fully and base many of my opinions on the supposed "facts" from the Observer's reporting. If I base my opin­ions on these facts, it is fairly evident that a number of other students must do the same. 
Along with the picture of Brian was an Irresponsible error on either your or your photographer's part, that error was the quote. It is understood that the Observer uses this type of article to cre­ate humor, and, yes, it is humorous, but it should not be done at the expense of others. 
Due to your disgusting disregard for the truth this student has received many comments and obscene phone calls regarding his apparent arrogance. A first year student at such a pres­tigious college as this should not have to be spending his time worrying about obscene calls and having to explain himself to countless numbers of people he encounters at the university. 
Furthermore, due to your article this student has lost the respect of his peers and the trust of the female side of this university. I live in the same hall as Brian and know that he is not the cocky womanizer you have portrayed him to be. 
While it is not true that he is this way. I hope it is also not true that the Observer is an irresponsible paper, a mere supermarket tabloid. Students are aware that mistakes can be made and will be. It will become known that the Observer has made this mistake, whether the truth comes out in a respectable apology to Brian from your paper, or from the word of the mouth of which just may be distorted out of pro­portion. 
The choice is yours, I myself would like to ask in Brian's favor that a print­ed apology for the mistake be made, I hope I soon see that the Observer is the respectable paper I once thought it was. you will gain more respect from taking responsibility for your actions than you will from accidentally harming the reputation and mental well being of a student on this esteemed campus. 
DEREK STEVENS Freshman Alumni Hall 

entities not private entities. Christians to establish an insti­Thus the rights may be as­tution of education where they serted against a state univer­can associate with other sity, but not against the Uni­Christians and express their versity of Notre Dame. Christian belief would be great­
Nor are university officials ly vitiated, even rendered nuga­violating any natural right of tory, if such an institution could homosexual individuals to as­not exercise some control over semble and express themselves, what student groups it officially Mr. Vanderwilt. sanctions and recognizes. 
To the contrary, our universi­We came to Notre Dame, Mr. ty is itself an association of Vanderwilt, so that we could individuals who are exercising associate with people who their rights of assembly and share a world view consistent 
expression. 

The right of with the traditional teachings of 
the Church. You and those of your opinion should respect our legal rights of assembly and expression. If you must pub­licly disagree with those tradi­tional teachings, assemble and express yourselves somewhere else. 
PETER BANCROFT 
CATHY PIERONEK 
BRIAN COFFEY 
CHRISTOPHER PARDI 

Literary Festival lacked coverage 
Dear Editor: 

As members of the 1995 Sophomore Literary Festival committee, we are dis­appointed in your photo coverage of our festival. Though flattered that you chose to cover our event through daily Accent articles and photographs, we are com­pletely dismayed at the inaccuracy of the latter. 
' However, when you insult 
our guests, noted mem­bers of the literary community, [the mistakes are] indefensible.' 
On Tuesday the 14th, the Observer incorrectly captioned a photograph of an unknown woman as our Monday night speaker, J. California Cooper. The picture did not even remotely resemble Ms. Cooper. The following day you cov­ered our Student Reading Night with a picture of graduate student Jessica Maich and again inaccurately labeled the photograph. This time with the name of another student reader, Donelle Ruwe. 
We are aware that the Observer fre­quently makes mistakes in all areas of its publication which often go unrepri­manded because you are a student run organization and not infallible. However, when you insult our guests, noted members of the literary commu­nity, it is indefensible. The end result is our own extreme embarrassment though the fault is completely yours. 
We hope that in the future that closer attention will be paid to the labeling of photographs. As a well circulated publi­cation, you should have more concern for the accuracy of the events you cover for the sake of those participating, your readers and your own reputation. 
KATE HILLMAN 
Sophomore 
Siegfried Hall 
ALLYSON LUCK 
Sophomore 
Cavanaugh Hall 

Best to know the facts first 
Dear Editor: 

Law students learn. unfortunately, that it is not always necessary to know what you're talking about before you start talking. Mr. Feske's February 14th letter, "Issues Subject to PC Culture," demonstrates his faith in this aspect of legal educa­tion. 
Multiculturalism is not a concept that requires embracing all aspects of every cul­ture just as being American and a patriot does not mean agreeing with all things American. 
The goal of multicultural education is to help students recognize the gifts our het­erogeneous society contributes to the world community, while simultaneously culti­vating pride in one's own culture. To relegate multiculturalism to, "eating ethnic foods, seeing ethnic festivals and activities, etc.," is nearly as egregious as accusing the Observer of promoting liberalism. 
A suggestion to Mr. Feske: Spend more time on the essence of legal education­know your facts. 
STUART HEALY 
Law Student 
Alumni Hall 

-----· 
ACCE-NT 
page 10 Monday, February 20, 1995 
• BOOK REVIEW 

Angelou leaves readers unsatisfied 
By KATIE BAGLEY 
Accent Writer 

N 
a great admirer of Maya Angelou, I had 
igh expectations for her latest book. Her 
owerful autobiographies give such real insight to this extraordinary woman, someone who is so real and straightforward that one can't help but listen. I looked forward to her newest book, a collection of short essays and vignettes, as another forceful meeting with a woman who encountered many growing experi­ences and shares that growth with us. My expectations were never quite realized. Although the work is insightful and thought­provoking in places, overall it lacks the per­sonality and intimacy that mark her ealrier works. 
Anyone who has read Angelou's work will agree that Ms. Angelou's great gift lies in storytelling. She has a knack for giving life to the people, places, and events of her life for us. She shares her experiences honestly and openly, showing us what her life has been and inviting us to take whatever wisdom or lesson we find there. In this work, however, she too often replaces won­derful stories with sermons. Many of the pieces seem like homilies; they aren't as powerful or personal as we would wish. 
Occasionally, passages will reveal the true Angelou, but in the whole they tend to obscure her. She is at her best when describing real people or specific experiences, without ex­planations or moral lessons. She tells about her grandmother. who needed to find a way to sup­port her children after her divorce. She sold meat pies to workers at the local lumber and cotton mills and eventually the business evolved into a general store. 
Angelou uses the story of her grandmother to document the strong willingness to change the direction of one's life. Ms. Angelou tells about Aunt Tee, who mastered the art of living well while her rich white employers wasted their lonely lives in their huge house. She describes her mother, a dominating woman who never learned the meaning of the word "failure." It is passages like these which reveal her gift for capturing the essence of real, albeit extraor­dinary people, and they resonate with a truth and warmth that is lacking in the majority of the mini-essays. 
This is not to say that the messages are not valuable, merely that they seem to be only a shadow of a vibrant woman. They are too short and abrupt, and although I do not doubt their honesty, they fail to move the reader. They merely skim the surface of Angelou's real wis­dom. The book was like being given only one bite of dessert-the reader is left wishing there was more. 
Katie Bagley's book reviews will be appearing every other Monday. 

• AT THE MOVIES WITH fAT MAN AND DADDY 
'In the Mouth ofMadness' starves for plot 
In the Mouth of Madness 
*
out of four 

B
uilding on the classic theme of questioned reality, "In the Mouth of Madness" details the chaotic adventures of investigator John Trent (Sam Neill) as he searches for a missing horror author. During the course of his investigations, Trent is led to a small New Hampshire village where he discov­ers more than just the location of the man he seeks. Trent also uncovers an insidious plot to destroy humanity and pave the way for the arrival of a new race of dominant creatures, a plot that has Trent himself unknowingly involved in itsfiendish intricacies! 
Fat Man: John Carpenter's latest film, "In The Mouth of Madness". is not a good horror film. I did not squirm in my seat or spill any of my greasy popcorn on Daddy as I watched the cheesy mon­sters dance across the screen to the intentionally cacophonous music that was meant to startle me. The movie's villain, Sutter Cain, and the evil minions that accompany him are not in the least bit frightening and the action scenes just didn't seem that exciting. The only thing that saved this movie from being a com­plete failure was the thick plot that it tried to develop. Although it didn't suc­ceed, the film's attempt at twisting reali­ty and deceiving the protagonist into a state of complete skepticism is a worthy of acknowledgment. Besides this factor, the only other enjoyable aspect of this film was the stylish dirt-head metal music which opened the film. 
The plot of "In the Mouth of Madness" is really pretentious, and the allusions that it attempts to make are pretty obscure. It develops into a sort of pedan­tic puzzle which I guess some people might find enjoyable to put togther. since the Fat Man is something of a ped­agogue himself, he found the film's story digestible. The evil writer, Sutter Cain, on the surface appears to be a mock Stephen King whose books drive people insane, not because they are long and boring like King's novels, but, rather the evil hidden suggestions to his readers in his books. Halfway through the film he reveals who he represents when he toys with Rene Descartes' Cogito and says "l think, therefore you are" to Sam Neill at the climax (a less than terrifying scene). Sutter Cain is not only a nefarious pop horror writer, he is also the "evil genius" of Descartes' Meditations on First Philosophy. He meets all of the cri­teria for skepticism's most absurd cre­ation -a supernatural being who con­trols our lives, manipulates "reality," and generally messes with our minds just for the fun of it. 
'The Fat Man would rather 
be deprived of food for three days than be forced to see this movie again.' 
The film plays with this concept as Cain destroys reality as Sam Neill has known it, to the point where our bold hero no longer can trust anything that he sees, hears, or thinks. John Carpenter revels in his exploration of misguided, pseudo­philosophy which he hopes will make his viewers wallow in paranoid skepticism. The Fat Man thinks that all of this is pretty obnoxious and should be left to snooty academics and not stuffed into a horror film. 
For those of us who want to see a good thriller/ horror film, this movie should be avoided like the lengthy assigned Descartes readings with which we have all had to deal. I can't find much that is redeemable in this movie since the demon creatures have all been seen elsewhere. the thrills are. well, nonexis­tent, and the acting is only passable. The Fat Man would rather be deprived of food for three days than be forced to see this movie again. 
Daddy: There are few things that the Fat Man values more than a good meal; so, when the corpulent one proposes fasting as an alternative to seeing this flick, it is safe to assume that the movie is probably quite poor. "In the Mouth of Madness" curtailed my appetite for any future Carpenter cinema contributions as well and also left me wondering why my Stir Fry supper was affecting my tummy more than the slimy beasties and wretched incubi that populated the sec­ond half of the film. Upon limited reflec­tion (the only kind this movie warrants), I decided that my indigestion was due only to disrupted peristalsis because the picture itself was neither frightening nor vaguely believable. 
I do not contend that all films of the horror genre should have completely plausible plots; such an idea would like­ly stand in direct conflict with the goal of creating fear through the presentation of the unknown. However, I would like the narrative itself to adhere a few log­ical principles of fluidity that would make the inevitable introduction of the fantastic all the more dramatic. "In the Mouth of Madness" generally fails to meet this criteria and subsequently becomes so predictable that even the most vile monster is not enough to make Daddy scared. I left feeling disap­pointed; because when I go to what is supposed to be a horror movie, I want to scream like the Fat Man does when he hears rumor of an impending famine. As I left the theater and walked to my car, I found myself yawning and didn't even feel inclined to check my backseat for loitering demons. 
There were a few facets of the film that Daddy did find relatively amusing. For example, I can honestly say that Sam Neill's character, John Trent, was slight­ly interesting. I have always liked chain­smoking insurance detectives; and "In the Mouth of Madness" offers the viewer a chance to step into the shoes of this type of rugged individual. John Carpenter obviously tries to create the image of the classic film noir investiga­tor right from the beginning as he estab­lishes that the narrative will be present­ed in the format of a flashback. The re­mainder of the film is full of ominous lighting, clever angles and purposely accentuated editing that assist the plot in its struggle to resolve the enigma cre­ated in the opening of the movie. 
However, Sam Neill fails to seize a won­derful opportunity to turn in a decent theatrical performance in what is gener­ally considered to be an archetypal role that is difficult to mess up. After watch­ing "Jurassic Park" and "In the Mouth of Madness", I am faced with a pertinent question: Who is the casting genius that decided Sam Neill could act? 
The Fat Man compares the fictitious author/protagonist Sutter Cane as a character that is easily comparable to Stephen King. While this analogy is valid in some senses, I found Cane to be much more closely related to the definitive horror writer, H.P. Lovecraft. Cane's pantheon of demons is almost pla­giaristically similar to the creatures of Lovecraft's Cthulhu mythos; and the general theme of a monstrous exodus from the realm of imagination to the plane of reality could have been taken frm one of H.P. Lovecraft's many works of literary brilliance. Why is Daddy telling everyone this? The answer to this query is quite simple. Don't waste your time and money going to see "In the Mouth of Madness," your funds and your hours would be better spent picking up a collection of Lovecraft's short stories and reading The Dunwich Horror . This alternative offers two overwhelming advantages. First. this choice is yet another opportunity to read and expand your mind. Secondly, unlike the Fat Man and Daddy, you'll then be spared from the atrocious acting of Sam Neill and Moses (excuse me. I mean Charlton Heston}. 
Fat Man and Daddy are John Zach and Scott Bozik. 

Monday, Febrary 20, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• INTERHALL BASKETBAll •LACROSSE 
Final Four ready Colley's five goals paces Irish's 26-goal 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Sports Writer 
And then there were four. 
After a long interhall basket­ball season, the finals four in both the men's and women's divisions are set to get under­way tonight. 
In Gym 4 at 9:00, Stanford battles Grace in the first semi­final, while in the second game, Alumni takes on last year's 
By JENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's track team concluded their indoor track season this weekend at Huntington College. The meet was considered a "warm up" for the outdoor track season which starts in two weeks, according to coach Larry Szczechowski. 
The Belles competed against eight other Division Ill colleges in a non-scoring tournament. 
"Even though it was a non­scoring meet," said Szczechowski, "we improved our times. The non-scoring meets especially took the pres­sure off the runners. The meet also helped to motivate the team, instead of the same monotonous practices." 
The Belles practice five times a week for two hours a day. The practicing cites vary from Angela Athletic facility to Loftus Center. Between warm ups nnd cool downs, the Belles run seven miles a day. 
The Belles have a young team this year. consisting of only one senior, Joann Weed, nnd six freshman. Since bas­ketball and swimming are still champion OfT-Campus at 10:00 in Gym 2. 
On the women's side, the Pyros of Pasquerilla East will meet Lyons at 7:00 in Gym 1. At the same time in Gym 2. Walsh will face Breen-Phillips for a spot in the championship game. 
The finals will be held on Wednesday night on the main floor. 
• 
Indoor warms up 
missing a few athletes. The flu virus also victimized the Belles weekend. Six runners were out sick, including their one miler, Michelle Wegner. and half milet', Erin Mellifont. 
Saint Mary's dominated in the triple jump where Weed placed second. only surrender* ing to teammate Paula Kiviven. who took first. Closing up the event, Jill Jusick placed fourth. and Desiree Leak rlfth. 
Kiviven currently holds the Saint Mary's record for the high jump (5'2), defaulted in yesterday's meet by missing her first three jumps. Kiviven started at 4'8 instead of the beginning height of 4'2. 
"I was really nervous," said Kiviven. "I put a lot of pres· sure on myself. I had a string of bad practices. My steps were off and I let it go to the meet. It still is the beginning of the season. We don't know what to expect from the other teams and we don't know what direction we are going." 
"For the overall indoor track season, I am happy with the team's effort and their deter· mination to improve in the outdoor season," said Szczechowski. 
surge against almost non-existent Denison 
By DAVID TREACY 
Sports Writer 
Denison, a Division III power, was almost non-existent in Sat­urday's scrimmage against the Notre Dame Lacrosse team. Woefully undermanned and quickly exhausted, Denison al­lowed 26 Irish goals, scoring four of their own in the four hour, 6 period match. 

All-time points and assists leader Randy Colley scored at will against the Denison squad. The senior co-captain deposited five shots into the net, along with three assists. 
A minor scare for the team occurred when All-American defenseman Mike Iorio fell to the turf late in the scrimmage. 
Iorio suffered a minor shoulder dislocation, but should play against the top-twenty Penn State team this Sunday. 
According to Iorio, "Denison basically was not as physical a team as we are, and we just tired them out. Penn State is a much stronger team, and should match up well against us." 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 

UMass rolls, Tar Heels fall 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
WORCESTER, Mass. 
Lou Roe scored 21 points and Marcus Camby added 16 as No. 5 Massachusetts took advan­tage of Louisville's injury prob­lems inside for a 91-76 victory. 
The Minutemen (20-3) broke from a 40-34 halftime lead with a 10-0 run and the rout was on. The Cardinals (15-11) never got closer than eight points the rest of the way. 
Louisville lost its third straight game, the same num­ber the Cardinals have had to play since freshman center Samaki Walker, their second­leading scorer and leading re­bounder, sustained a stress fracture in his right foot. 
Without Walker, Hoe and Camby were able to lead the Minutemen's inside game with a variety of dunks and put­backs. They finished with 69 points in the paint and outre­bounded the Cardinals 39-29. 
No. 7 Maryland 74, Cincinnati 72 
SAN ANTONIO Joe Smith's two free throws with 16.1 seconds remaining gave No. 7 Maryland a 74-72 victory over Cincinnati Sunday at the Alamodome. 

Smith led all scorers with 26 points and 14 rebounds. 
Exree Hipp had 16 points and Johnny Hhodes 15 for the Terrapins, who improved to 20­5 for their first 20-win season since 1984-85. Mario Lucas had 13 points off the bench for Maryland. 
Cincinnati (17 -9) was led by reserve Darnell Burton with 21. Danny Fortson and LaZell Durden each had 12 for the Bearcats. 
Cincinnati never trailed by more than 6 points in the sec­ond half after trailing by as many as 12 in the first half. The Terrapins led 40-32 at half­time. 
Cincinnati tied the score 68­68 with 2 minutes remaining on a jumper by Fortson. Hhodes answered with Maryland's only 3-pointer of the half, putting the Terrapins ahead 71-68. 
No. 16 Virginia 73, No. 2 North Carolina 71 
CHAHLOTTESVILLE, Va. Virginia earned a share of the Atlantic Coast Conference lead Sunday by riding llnrold Deane's 21-point second half to a 73-71 victory over second­ranked North Carolina. 
Deane, a sophomore guard, made all eight of his second­half field-goal attempts and tied his career high with 28 points as No. 16 Virginia (18-6, 10-3 ACC) extended its season-long winning streak to six games. 
Deane's two free throws with 

4.2 seconds left were the differ­ence as the Cavaliers defeated the Tar Heels for the fifth time in the last seven games at University Hall. 
Virginia tied the Tar Heels (20-3, 10-3) atop the ACC standings by winning its lOth game in league play for the first time since 1982-83, when Ralph Sampson played for the Cavaliers. 
The Tar Heels used a late 10­2 run to tie it, drawing even on a layup by Jerry Stackhouse with 15 seconds left. 
Curtis Staples added 11 points for Virginia, which also got 10 apiece from Williford and Jamal Hobinson. 
Wallace led North Carolina with 23 points and 12 rebounds. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Attention Cyclists! 
Looking for students interested in helping to restart the cycling club. Mountain biker's and Roadies please respond. Need riders for National Collegiate MTB Championships Oct.95. Call Tucker at 289·5975 if you're interested. 
ATIENTION SOPHOMORES: Are you looking for that se.vice pro­ject that really makes a difference. and is a lot of fun? Look no fur­ther... 
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS SERVICE PROJECT 
Youth Mentoring at the NE 
Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS 
AND FRIDAYS 2:30-3:30·4:30 meet at room 161 or Main Circle Questions?-Brian Tierney x1058 
''""""ATIENTION'""''''''''' THOSE INTERESTED IN THE CAMPUS CD ............................ .. The deadline for turning in a tape and band bio has been extended to Monday, February 20 at 5:00 
p.m. Submit entries Into the mall­box labeled CAMPUS CD in the SUB Office, 201 LAFortune. Call Ryan at 288·3952 with any ques· lions 
••••••••••••••CAMPUS CD'*****'**** 
Used Texts Cheapll Check out Pandora's Books 233-2342 NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat 9-3 sundays Farley Hall Players Present: 
Euripides' MEDEA A New Translation by Brendan Kennelly 
Performances begin at 8:00pm on: Saturday, Feb. 25th Sunday, Feb. 26th Monday, Feb. 27th At the Loft in Lafortune Tickets are $4 at the Lafortune Info Desk 
Used Texts Cheapll Check out Pandora's Books 233·2342 NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat 9-3 sundays 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: A LONG BLACK WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT AT FISHER­WALSH FORMAL LAST FRI. CALL CINDY AT 273-5399 
LOST: Black winter "GAP" cap. Please call x2027 with any info. 
LOST LIZARDII LOST LIZARDII I lost a gecko lizard earring, silver, one and a half Inches long, sometime on Monday, somewhere on campus. The other lizard of the pair is very lonely. Please call Liz @ 287-7444. 
FOUND: Woman's wrist watch. On stairs between North dining hall & Flanner, at 9 a.m. wednsday 2/15. Call to identify! Justin at X1765. 
WANTED 
Spring Break! Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days $2791 Includes 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $429! Spring Break Travel 1·800-678-6386 
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots! PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291 WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights $1591 Key West $2291 Daytona Room with Kitchen From $12911­800-678·6386 
RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS, GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE WHILE BUILDING YOUR RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000 (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER: VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­265-7691 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships of Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information call1­206-634-0468 ext. C55843 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 

PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
CALL 1-800-786-8373 

Painters, Foremen, and Managers­Call College Pro Painters at 1 (800) 346-4649. 
FOR RENT 
Wanted: 5 students for completely remod­eled home. Close to N.D. large rec. room, washer and dryer, security system. Rent for summer school and/or fall semester. Call NOW 277-0636 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS 232·2595 

FOR SALE 
CONDO NEAR NOTRE DAME Immaculate Condo with the latest decor and sharper than new. Call Harold Zeltwanger 291-9338 or ERA All Star Realty 255-8789. 
One·way air ticket to Boston May 13. Male name. $120 X·1814 
OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call (616)946-0700. 
TICKETS 
$$$$ Need 4 Marquette GA's Call Ted x3402 $$$$ 

Need MARQUETIE tix -student or GA's. Call Sharon @ 3490. 
HELPIII I NEED ONE STUDENT TIX FOR MARQUETIE GAME FEB. 25th. 
PLEASE CALL TRICIA @ 4975. 
PERSONAL 
744 HOURS Ill 
000 The Copy Shop 000 LaFortune Student Center 
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE Ill 
Phone 631-COPY 

TIRED OF READING? INFOTAINMENT SUPER-HYPE­WAY TOO JAMMED UP? THEN LISTEN TO WVFI AM 640 NEWS @4:30 EACH SCHOOL DAY. 
If you are the mysterious man with the second best "NYPD" hat on campus then give me a call at 3400 and reveal your identity. Name your price. I thought that I had the only hat like that around here. 
Pebble, Glad you finally got to bond (ehhl) with the Manor Nine-Man. I've been looking forward to hanging out (ehhl) for a long time. Hope you have a good time this week. The hard (ehhl) work is worth it. See you out here in three years! 
·ROCK 

If you're lucky enough to know the Nine-Man, then ... you're lucky enough. Who the ...What the ... Who the -said anything about the basement? DT kicks butt. 
ATIENTION FRESHMAN! Come find out what the coolest organization on campus is all about, the 
SPORTS MANAGERS 
ORGANIZATION Info meeting, WED. 2122 8:00pm in Loftus (behind and N of JACC) 
DESPARATEL Y NEEDED: 
Ride to Pittsburgh on March 3rd for weekend. Please help. Call Laurie at x4096 -Thank You I 
SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LON· DON & ROME FOR ND/SMC STU­DENTS TRAVEL IN IRE,SCOT, FR. GER. & SWITZ. COURSES AVAILABLE IN BUEC, ED, HIST, ITALIAN, PSYCH.MEETING IN NO LIBRARY LOUNGE, FEB. 20 AT 6:30PM. STUDENTS. FAC, PIZZA SOCIAL. CALL PROF. A.A. BLACK 284-4460 (OFC) OR 272·3726 (HOME) 
i know this doesn't smell too good kid-but it will keep you warm. 
JK please-what are your thoughts? 
POF the Magic Dragon Lived In the Sea ... ...Little Jackie Paper Loved that Rascal POFI 
is there merely oblivion? 
Triangle Man, Triangle Man, Nobody loves like a triangle can I 
Kiddo, I'm listening to Addendum II, boy I have good taste and it still applies. -An lllinios Farmer 
Carpe Phil Seize the Frog 

----------·---~---------------------~--------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 20, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 

Belles' improvement propels team to third 
By JANEL CRAWL 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swimming and diving team concluded their 1994-1995 season this weekend with a third place fin­ish at the Liberal Arts Championship Invitational host­ed by DePauw University. Although the Belles were expecting higher than a third place finish, coach Greg Janson said that he was pleased with the team's performance. 
"This meet was a great end to our season," Janson said. "Everyone has a right to be ex­cited about their individual per­formances and our overall team standing." 
According to Janson, the field of teams present at the invita­tional this year was compara­tively stronger than last year. DePauw reclaimed their title as meet champions and Trinity University edged out Saint Mary's for second place by a narrow margin. 
Nevertheless, Janson noted that the Belles showed major improvement at the meet this year both as a team and in­dividually. Much of this, he be­lieves, can be credited to the team's "true character." 
"We have a really tough team that just won't quit or give up when things get tough," Janson said. "The team really pulled together emotionally as the meet went on. This support is what gets them through any­thing." 
Janson also commented that 
the Belles' seniors all had great 
performances in their last colle­
giate appearance. 
Senior Katie Northup quali­
fied for the final in the 200 fly 
and was 16th in the mile. 
Carisa Thomas placed 14th in 
the 200 back and was a 
contributor in two relays. Tara 
Krull was 6th in the 400 IM, 9th 
in the 200 fly, and 15th in the 

mile. Both her mile and IM performances were personal bests. 
Janson credits all of the underclassmen as major con­tributors to Saint Mary's suc­cessful team outcome as well. 
Juniors Teresa Popp, Jen Mitchell, Natalie Cheeseman and Jen Dyjak swam well and each qualified for finals in their respective events. Popp was 6th in the 50 free, 8th in the 100 free and had a personal best time in the 100 breast. Mitchell was 11th in the 200 breast and 9th in the 400 IM. Cheeseman was 5th in the 400 IM and swam a personal best in the 500 free. Dyjak was 16th in the 200 free and had a personal best in the 200 breast. 
Sophomore Shannon Kelleher swam her fastest collegiate 500 free, placing 3rd. She was also 4th in the mile and 6th in the 200 free. 
Freshman Allison Smith won both the mile and the 500 free. She also set a school record in the 400 IM with her second place finish and was the leading individual point scorer for Saint Mary's. 
Freshman Sarah Gillen swam season bests in the 200 free, 500 free and mile, placing 3rd, 5th and 3rd respectively and Lauren Winterfield swam per-
Accelerated Program in Nursing 

• Earn a BS. degree in nur:ring • Elig~.bility requirement: baccalaureate degree as of May'95 • Program begins May 30, 1995 and ends July; 1996 Application materials must be submitted by March 1, 1995. For more information contact, 
Saint Mary's College.Admission Office at (219) 284-4587. 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
1994-95 JOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES 
AN IRISH CELEBRATIONWITH 
THURSDAY, MARCH 2 7:30P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $8* ALL SEATS RESERVED 
Discounts available for senior citizens, groups, SMC-ND community and students. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlln, 9-5 Mon.-Fri. Discover, Visa. MasterCard at 219/284-4626. 
/'\ORffiU CtnHR 
fOR Tt1t <tJ R T S 
sonal bests in both the mile and the 500 free, placing in the top eight in each event. 
Freshmen Courtney Merriss and Neena Ciccinelli were also major contributors for the Belles in the 400 IM and the 200 fly. Freshman Tasha Mitchener also swam a season best in the 50 free and was a strong contributor in the Belles' relays. 
Janson also added that sophomore diver Megan McHugh had phenomenal per­formances in both the one and three meter events. 
"Megan really did a great job this weekend," Janson said. "She was finally able to reap the benefits from their hard work this season." 
Smith is the Belles' only NCAA nationals qualifier. She will continue to train for this meet which will be held in 
8-20/30

MINUTE PACKAGES 
or 

1 MONTH/3 MONTH UNLIMITED PACKAGES 
5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
271·.-1946 

H,_lURS i 9 to 8 S~t. 9 to 6 Sun. I I 5 
three weeks at Weslyean University in Connecticut. 
With the 1994-1995 season successfully ended, the Belles can only look forward to what lies ahead for next year. Janson feels that this weekend helped set the tone for further improvement and growth in terms of what may be possible for next year. For now, how­ever, he is extremely pleased with the way the Belles ended their season. 
''I'm very happy we were able to end the season the way we did for the seniors," Janson said. "Everyone put up perfor­mances that enabled us to send them out in style." 
FEBRUARY 23, 24, 25 AT 8P.M. FEBRUARY 26 AT 2:30 P.M. LITTLE THEA 
TICKETS: $8/ADULTS; $6/SENIOR CITIZENS & GROUPS; $4/SMC-ND COMMUNITY; $3/STUDENTS TICKETS ON SALE AT THE SAINT MARY"S BOX OFFICE, LOCATED IN O"LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM, OPEN FROM 9-5, MON. -FRI. DISCOVER, VISA, MASTERCARD ORDERS AT 219 I 284-4626 

"Mandate for the New Congress" 
Wednesday, February 22 
8p.m 
Stepan Center 
Tickets are now on sale at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Students $3 General Public $5 
Sponsored by the Office of Student Activities, SUB and Student Government 
~----------------------------------------------------------~--------------­

Monday, February 20, 1995 
•
CLIMBING WALL SCHEDULE 
-The climbing wall is now open for use. The hours will be Sundays 2:00-5:00 and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00-10:00. The climbing wall is located in the Rockne Memorial and anyone inter­ested in using it must attend an orientation session. For more info eall RecSports at 1·61 00. 
VARSITY LACROSSE • A statistician is needed for men's varsity lacrosse games. Call Coach Coorigan at 1·5108. Lacrosse experience necessary. 
INTERHALL LACROSSE • The RecSports office is offering interhall lacrosse with the deadline being February 23rd. The mandatory captains' meet· ing will be at 5:00 PM in the JACC auditorium on the same date. Any questions please call 1-6100. 



Looking for a place to stay during: 
.,.. 1IL9fij';nnteft1ll'bnd?
(.. cR!8~aLUfli Weekend? (.. Weddings? (.. Home Football Games? 
Alumni Renting Out Historic Home For ND Special Events 
•Close 
to Campus (Just 2 miles Away!) 

•Safe 
Neighborhood 

•Competitive 
Rates 

•Fully 
Equiped Kitchen 

•University 
Club access 

•Summit 
Club access 

•5 
private suites w/ individual baths 

•Accomodates 
up to 14 



Available to Show by Appointment Call Helen for More Information@ 219 287-8163 
page 13
The Observer • SPORTS 
Rosen 
continued from page 16 

Rosen started by getting in the best shape of his life. He did the extra running and filled his sparring card. He has 13 sessions already and expects to get in a few more before Sunday. 
But strength and fitness have never been the problem with Rosen. He usually climbs into the ring with an edge in quickness and stamina. His downfall has been his head, something he is the first to acknowledge. 
"Everybody knows that to win you have to have confidence," Rosen. "You have to be confident and aggressive and fight your fight. I think in the past I have slipped up, like Jetting Rob get to me last year. 
"Sometimes you forget that when the night of the fight comes, no matter what you have seen of your opponent before, it could all change. At that moment, a boxer can come in and surprise you. I think I understand that now, and it something I'm not going to forget this year." 
If he finds success, Rosen will have the past, in part, to thank. His sophomore year, he got a schooling from eventual 145-pound champion Lou Hall, with particular focus placed on Rosen's tendency to drop his hands. 
Last February, Ganz taught him about over­confidence and letting an opponent get him away from his game. Two occurrences which allowed the brawler to beat the boxer. 
"I think about it now and I am 100-percent bet­ter than I was when I first started out," Rosen said. "My first year I just wanted to get in there and mix it up and last year I wasn't aggressive enough, but now I think I've put it " 11 together and I think this is my year." 
Look for Bengal Bouts coverage in The Observer 

WHAT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: CAMP SWEENEY A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES INTERVIEWS WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 22 FROM 9:00AM to 3:00PM IN THE NOTRE DAME LIBRARY FOYER Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer.  


-
Ir----------------------------------,I 
: HOW TO GET STUFF CHEAPER. : 
I (WITHOUT POSING AS A SENIOR CITIZEN.) : 
I I Check expiration dates. I If it's going bad tomorrow, it's probably on sale today. 

Look for product flaws. 
A scratch or a missing button means 
bargain savings at the register: 
Go generic. 

Same as name brands, without the 
cartoon mascots. 
Buy in bulk with friends. 

Connect the leftover boxes to make a human Habitrail.® 
Use a Citibank Classic card. 
If you find out you didn't pay the lowest 
price, Citibank Price Protection can pay 
you back up to $ I50.* 
•Naturally, conditions and exclusions apply. Learn all about it when you become a cardmember. 



-~ -------~---­
r--------------------------------------­
1 
f 
I 
I page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 20, 1995 
• TRACK

Fatal Irish 
-
continued from page 16 
Fordham mistakes in the final minutes. The Rams missed five of six free throws late in the game, but twice got offensive rebounds to retain possession. 
"We had a lot of opportuni­ties," MacLeod said. "Fordham outhustled us in the second half." 
It got so bad for the Irish in the second half that they were forced to use injured guard Ryan Hoover, who they had hoped to rest for the entire game. He immediately hit a 3­pointer to give the Irish a 38­35 lead but those were his only points. 
Keith Kurowski played 17 minutes, the most since his re­turn from heart surgery, finish­ing with six points. 
Notre Dame has just two re­maining games, both at home. Marquette visits Saturday fol­lowed by the regular-season fi­nale on Feb. 28 against Loyola (Ill.). 
With post-season plans sud­denly shaky, the Irish could need two wins to secure a spot in the National Invitation Tournament, though they could receive an invitation if they split their final two games and finish 15-12. 
If you see Sports happening, call The Observer at 831-5323 

TRIP!
INTRODUCING: 

continued from page 16 
However, the Irish were lack­ing sophomore guard Beth Morgan, the team's leading scorer. Morgan has been side­lined for the last two games with a knee injury, but is ex­pected to return for the next game. 
Notre Dame defeated La Salle earlier this season, 87-65. Although Morgan played that game, she was held to a career low of 5 points. "We were very sluggish and lacked intensity," Coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Without Morgan, the Irish needed someone to hit the out­side jumpers to draw out the defense so the forwards could get to work. However, the ma­jor weakness was the team's defense down the stretch. 
"Our defense wasn't aggres­sive like it usually is," Poor said, "We pressed and they just went through it." 
The loss was Notre Dame's first in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference, although the Irish are still in first place. La Salle, 8-5 in the conference, ended Notre Dame's season high nine game winning streak. 
La Salle shot well to take the lead after the first half, includ­ing 20-plus point games by their center and point guard. The Explorers also took better care of the ball, turning it over 

Are you a Sophomore Accounting Major? 


Balance key to sweep 
By J.R. MELORO 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's and women's track teams hosted regional rivals Marquette and Western Michigan on Saturday at the Loftus Sports Center. 
It was the format of the meet that propelled both teams to two wins apiece and spots in the IC4A Championships. 
The meet used a unique, in­ternational-style scoring system which emphasized each team's overall strength. Most tradi­tional meets score the top 5 or even 8 athletes, but Saturday's meet was scored as three con­current dual meets and each event only counted the top 2 from each team. 
Therefore, there was no opportunity to amass points in one or two events. A team had to have a balanced attack in every event in order to be victo­rious. 
When the final scores were tallied, it was clear who domi­nated as the Irish defeated Marquette 104-62 and downed Western Michigan 92-76. 
Balance was the word of the day for the Irish who won 11 events during the 3 and 1/2 hour meet. 
There were several notable were Brian Headrick, who cleared 7'0" in the high jump, Joe Royer, whose 2:25 in the 1OOOm is the third fastest in Irish history and Dan Grenough, who pole vaulted his way to #2 all-time in Irish indoor history with a 16'6" clearance. 
Not to be outdone by the men, Notre Dame's women also had a stellar day, winning twelve of the events contested. They trampled Marquette 93-54 and downed Western Michigan 84­66. 
The Irish ladies were led by the multi-talented tandem of Erica Peterson and Alison Howard. But the performance of the day went to Amy Siegel. Siegel, buoyed by the pace set by teammate Emily Husted, went on to win the 1000m and her time of 2:52 broke the school and Meyo Track record. 
Head coach Joe Piane said he was impressed with the ex­cellent performances by both the men's and women's teams. 
"The unique scoring system forces us to score in each event," emphasized Piane. 
Piane added that the scoring system made each event rele­vant to the overall team perfor­mance. The scores seem to indicate that the Irish should be pleased with the team effort demonstrated on Saturday. This coming Saturday, February 25, the Irish host a bevy of talented athletes from around the country in the Alex Wilson Invitational. 
Institute of Asian Studies International Study Programs 
STUDY ABOAD IN TAIPEI OR BEIJING SPRING 1996, 
OR SPRING 1997 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSORS DIAN MURRAY AND ALICE CHEANG 

Do you Work Well With People? 
Then MaybeYou Would ~ Like to be the Assistant ~ Treasurer of the Student Body. 
Student Government is looking for someone to help manage and account for over $400,000. This position is in preparation for becoming the Student Body Treasurer the following year. Applications and more information are available in the Student Government office-2nd Floor LaFortune between 8:00-5:00. Applications due Friday, February 24 by 5:00 PM. Questions? Call Shannon at 1-7417. 
S~BWAV:s Giant Party Subs &Pl~tters are the fres~, delicious change of taste from p1zza, chicken and burgers. We p1le lots of fresh·shced deli meats onto fresh bread baked right in our store. Next we add cheese, plus your choice of fresh toppings and tasty condiments. The result is ahearty 
sandwich that will satisfy any hungry team. 
Monday, February 20, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MIRRORLAND HUY NGOC PHAN CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

AP:C. 'lO'J K\DD\I{G? iO\lR 1'\l-lGt.Rl-11\\l'S f>.RE /'-J()Kt.., 'IO'J''IE Q:)\ l{O r/'-l{GS, 'lO'J C!>-t-\1 St£ f>-1 \'-.1\G\.\\, 'iOJR 1'1~'( \-\IDES 1>-R.£. 
RID\CUU:\\JS, '(Q\JR RH'\.EkE-5 t>.Rt NIL, M-ID 
'jC\j 001'\1 E'lffi 1-\t>.'.Jt. \f>.l\.5! Ct= CO\l~ I'EOI'lE ARffi'l CON\ENT .' 
~, 'i~ 
SCOTT ADAMS 

YOU'RE IN LUCK . I I.'D LOVE TO 1-\1\PPE.N TO 1-\1\V£ A. SEE YOUR P\1.0. I.N LII\TOLOGY DIPLOMA. 
FROM. TI-\E M.i\551\~U­SETIS lN5TlTUTE. OF 
I 

IECHNOLO&Y. 
55 Largest newspaper in Calif. 
57 Became less clear 81 Chilean port &2 Major pipe 84Familycar 
es"Hard-1" (nautical command) 
88 Mr. Gershwin 87 Idyllic spots 88 Legal wrongs 89"-Miz" 
DOWN 
1Pro­2 Eager 3 Zilch, to Zapata 4 Like lahr's lion 5 Mideasterner 8 Dull finishes 7 Word before 
more and 



Z-ZI 
• OF INTEREST 

Masculinity in the 1990's will be discussed through the topic of "Biology and Masculinity" by Dr. Ann Robbins; from the Population Center for Biomedical R~~arch, today. 
.:·::.Awr::·>:i:::;~%,. 

The'Campus Life Council meets today at 4:00 in the Notre Qafile ll;oJ»m of LaFortune to hear Prof. Patricia 
o~ ,ex;plairi"the Administration's reasons for not rec· 
'R,i:ffili~l'lU~%•!iMti,~····,:,1.at:liU=niversity organization. 
rendasfrom the University of the West Indies wi.U a dress "!3thnicity and Development: Cases from the Caribbean and Oceania" today at 4:15 p.m. in room C­l0.3 ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
An introduction to Natural Family Planning will be held tonight from 7:00 to 8:30p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. room 122-The presenter will be Janet Bettcher, RN. This overview meets local diocesaan requirements for marriage preparation but is open to all. There is a $10 fee for materials. For more information call 237-7405. 

•MENU 
··ox.. 
Notre Dame, 
:.;r-;~6' 

NORTH DINING HALL SOUTH DINING HALL Santiago Grill. . 1if Chicken in the Pot 
I···••· Macaroni and.. Cht!ese · · Vegetable Quiche 
1,~hrilnp Popper · Country-Fried Steak 
v·::::· ..Mt~j·:;!,·· ·, ·· . ·:.. :=,:.•~? · 
,."$~/Marrs 

·Baked Ham with Honey Glaze Broccoli Rice Casserole Roasted Sweet Potatoes 
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 
> 
-
,. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
DILBERT 
DOGBERT, I NEED YOUR 1-\ELP DEALING WITI-\ A PATI-\OLO~ICAL LlP\R A.T 
WORK. 
2121 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Wasn't colorfast 
4"Le-de Monte Cristo" 
• Napoleon's force 14 Gardner of "Mogambo" 151935 Triple Crown winner 111 Closes in on 17 Coastal area 19 Birdlike 20 Unyielding 21 Driver's need 23 Old town official 25 Gets the soap out 
28 Investigated, with "about" 
29 No-caffeine drink 31 Drives 33 Freight weight 34 Part of Q.E.D. 37-capita 38 Had a hankering 41 Anger 42 Barber's action 44 Stars and Bars inits. 45 Commandment breaker 47 Batman, to the Joker so Astronomer Carl 51 "-and rejoice": Psalms 53 Under, in verse 
merrier 8 Jazzman Hines eTylenol 
alternative 
10 Income 11 Watch's center 12 Clear the slate 13 Workers of 
puzzledom 18 Host 22 Worth and 
Castle 24 Give new job skills 

28 Small drinks 27 Augury 28Full moon 
occurrence 30"-Ryan's 
Express" 32 Leave the union 35Space 38 Slender-billed 
sea bird 39 Palm Sunday mount 40Warps 
43 Big-billed sea sa The Sultan of bird 46 Biblical prophet sa Dublin 48 Marseille moms legislature 49 Pie slice, in 59 Dublin's geometry country 51 World-weary eo Genetic 52 Like many seals materials 54 On the qui vive 63 G.l.'s address 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

tTiie Observer Published Monday through Friday. 'Ifu Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. Join the more than 13.000 readers who have found '11U Observer an indispensible link to the two cam­puses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive 'I1it 06strvtrin your home.  Make checks payable: The Observer and mail: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 0 Enclosed is $60 for one academic year. D Enclosed is $35 for one semester. Name ___________________________________ Address_____________________________ City_______State.___Zip______  

------------------------------~------­
-

SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, February 20, 1995 
• MEN's BASKETBALL 

Fatal symptoms returning 
By JASON KELLY Associate Spons Editor 

The Notre Dame men's basketball team is suddenly suffering from a familiar syn­drome. 
Symptoms started appearing two weeks ago with a 37-point loss at UCLA. Then it got a little worse against Kentucky. And now. two straight road losses against mediocre competition (last Wednesday at Butler and a 62-55 loss to Fordham on Saturday) have Notre Dame fighting for its life. 
"This team has trouble responding to challenges," senior Lamarr Justice said. "Some guys are doing their job and some aren't. It's like coach (John MacLeod) says, some guys have their own agenda and are not doing what they're told. That's very evident and I agree with him." 
Whatever the cause, the Irish (14-11) now need an abrupt about-face to return a once-promising season to its original course. 
Saturday on the hallowed floor of Madison Square Garden in New York, Notre Dame played like some teams of 
-the recent past, allowing a lesser oppo­nent to wrestle a victory away. The Irish watched a 10-point halftime lead evaporate as the Rams went on a 16-6 run to open the second half. . It was a tight game for most of the half with Notre Dame taking a 51-50 lead with just over four minutes left. But the Irish would not score again until the final 30 seconds after the outcome had been decided. Freshman Pat Garrity was the only Irish player in double-figures, finishing with 18 points. Ryan Hunter led Fordham with 16. Notre Dame couldn't capitalize on some 
see FATAL I page 14 
The Observer I Rob Finch Coach Muffet McGraw saw her team suffer their first conference loss at the hands of LaSalle over the weekend. 
Irish fail to "post" conference win 
LaSalle shuts 
up their defense accordingly. in the second half. Fellow co­"Our inside game was doing captain Letitia Bowen led all down strong 
well," co-captain Carey Poor scorers with 20 points, in addi­said, "But [La Salle] just really tion to grabbing a game high 11 
collapsed in on us." rebounds. The effort wasinside game The score was tied at 33 at Bowen's seventh consecutive ByKCGOYER the half, but La Salle started off double double performance. SportS Writer the third quarter with a 19-8 Katryna Gaither, the Irish's 
run. The closest the Irish got latest addition to the offensive 
At one time, not everyone after that was within six after arsenal, contributed 15 points knew about the Notre Dame Jeanine Augustin drilled a and 7 rebounds, although both women's basketball inside three pointer to bring the score statistics are considerably game. to 65-59 with 7:26 remaining in below her achievements of late. 
Apparently, the word is out. the game. So with all the strong efforts. 
The Irish fell to LaSalle "Jeanine had a great defen­it is hard to understand the University on Saturday, 82-68. sive game," Poor said. loss. The Explorers knew well of the Poor muscled through for 14 Irish post player power and set points, all of which were scored 
see IRISH I page 14 
BELLES PLACE THIRD 
The St. Mary's swimming and diving team finished the season third at DePauw page 12 
~ 
.,-;;;r• 
SMC 
S . .
iWJmmtng 
of note... 
Check tommorow's Observer for weekend results of men's and 
' .
womens tennis 



