
Friday, March24, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 108 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Former hostage to speak 
By RICK BORST News Writer 
Father Lawrence "Marty" 
Jenco's 564 days of cap­tivity at the hands of a group of S h i ' i t e Muslims bngan on January 8, 

1985, when FatherJenco 8 gunmen took him from his car. 
This Sunday at 7 p.m., Jenco will relate these experiences in a Cavanaugh Hall-sponsored lecture entitled "Bound to Forgive: A Pilgrimage of a Beirut Hostage to Reconcilia­tion," in llesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Jnnco had been working with Catholic Relief Services in Beirut in rebuilding the social services destroyed by the civil war since July of 1984. 
From the time of his capture to his release on July 26, 1986, .Jonco's life was completely eontrolled by his captors. He was prohibited from using the toilet more than once a day and taking a bath more than once every other day. llis diet c?nsisted merely of a breakfast 
see JENCO I page 4 

GOP recision bill to cut student loans 

Scholarships, fellowships also in danger 
By LAURA FERGUSON Saint Mary's News Editor 
The financial future of Ameri­can college students became clouded last week as Republi­can's passed a plank of their "Contract with America" last week. 
• see CONTRACT, pagelO 
As the House of Representa­tives gave final approval to the recision bill, many government programs were tagged to re­ceive some of the $17 million in cuts which would facilitate the first ste_p toward a reduction of nearly $200 billion in Federal spending over five years. 
Student loan programs, specifieally the State Student Incentive Grant (SSIG) program and several other grant pro­grams, were two of them. 
Beeause this was a bill that 
would eliminate funding al­
ready allotted to state govern­
ments for student aid, it could 
have a strong impact. 
"To take away what was al­
ready given would be detrimen­
tal. since most states already 
have a budget," said Ken Mcin­
erney, assistant direetor for 
governmental affairs at the Na-
Elimmatmn o the tudent LoanInterest:.. Exemption 
Bills now before Congress would end the current policies that keep students free from interest payments for the duration of their education and for six months afterwards. This would mean interest charges on an loan of $2,695 a year would add up to a total debt of $1,883 at the end of four years of school. The extra cost of the loan over its life is close to $5,000, These payments would cost almost 20% of the newly graduated student's income. 
Elimination ofCampus-
Based Aid 
In 1994 the federal government provided $1.4 billion in campus­based aid. More than 991,000 students received supplemental grants from the Federal Sup~ plemental Educational Oppor­tunity Grant program, 713,000 students participated in Fedral Work-Study programs, and 697,000 recleved Perkins Loans. Proposals to eliminate the funding for these programs would, if voted into law, hurt a large number of post-secondary students. 
Figures ~urt~y ofHigher /£dttcmioll & National 
AJJal'rs, and Notre Dame omee orFinancial Aid 
tiona! Association of Student Fi­nancial Aid Administrators. "(The effect) would be different for each state but in would leave a definite hole in the grant program." 
SSIG was designed to encour­age states to set up a grant pro­gram by the federal govern-

Aspin: Military role changing 
By EDWARD IMBUS Associate News Editor 
On top of protecting 
U.S. seeurity and interests, th11 U.S. mili­tary is now being ealled on to protect Ameriean val­ues in the world. fomer Secretary of Defense Les Aspin said yes­terday. 
f 
' 


Speaking to the World Affairs Council of Michiana, Aspin said that the issue of whether or not to use U.S. military assets was "the most divisive foreign policy issue in America today," and arising more and more with new situations. 
Beyond its standard duties of protecting U.S. territory, citi­zens, and interests, "a new class of cases have developed -should we broaden the role of the military to protect American values?" 
lie said that three categories of value cases have been identi­fied: humanitarian missions, such as in Somalia; ethnic cleansing, seen in Bosnia­Herzegovina; and military coups against democracies, as happened in Haiti. 

The primary difficulty with any use of the military for value cases, however, is that Americans are almost always divided, according to polls, and no coherent policy has yet been adopted, he said. 
"We do not have a good track record of deciding when to use 
Say Cheese! 

The Midwestern Asian American Student Union offers Asian students the opportunity to learn about their culture, their heritage, and themselves. 
$20,712 
$17,125 

To voice your opinion on Student·Aid contact: 
House Committee on Economic and Educational Opportunities 2181 Rayburn HOB Washington D.C. 20515 
(202) 
225-4527 -Majority Staff 

(202) 
225-3725 -Minority Staff 

Senate Committee on the Budget SD-62 I Dirksen SOB Washington D.C. 20510 

(202) 
224-0642 -Majority Staff 

(202) 
224-0624 -Minority Staff 


Honse Committee on Appropriations H-218 Capitol Building Washington D.C. 20515 
(202) 
225-3508 -Majority Staff 

(202) 
225-3481 -Minority Stnff 

Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources SD-428 Dirksen SOB Washington D.C. 20510 

(202) 
224-7666 -Majority Staff 

(202) 
224-2962 -Minority Staff 


E..mail: student-aid@nchemail.nche.edu .Gopher: student-aid@nche.edu WWW: http:// student~aid.nche.edy 
Alliance to Save Student Aid Hotline 1-800-574-4ATD 
($3.65 per call) 
The Observer/Robert Bollman/jr. 

ment matching a state's spend­extensive effect on students. ing for student aid. This week, the Senate has 
The other grant programs been drafting their version of which could be cut include the recision bill. A conference many scholarships and fellow­to reach a compromise between ships available for graduate the two bills will be held later, students. Mcinerney says that followed by a vote in each although these programs are house to accept the single bill. not large they will also have an 
see LOANS/ page 4 

WVFI still fighting for FM status despite obstacles 
By KRIST! KOLSKI Assistant News Editor 
The dream of going FM for WVFI is still very much alive. 
The campus sponsored, stu­dent run radio station has been fighting to gain FM status for almost fifteen years. According to interim student manager, Ted Liebler, the station might finally achieve it's goal. "We really have a good chance this year of going FM, especially with Student Body President and campus support." 
• see EDITORIAL, pagel2 
WVFI has distributed surveys campus-wide in an attempt to gauge student support for the station. "The majority of re­sponses have been positive but I really encourage people not to ignore the surveys," Liebler said. 
Liebler feels that the chances to go FM are currently resting on student support but WVFI is working to make FM status a viable option for the station. The staff has traveled to other college campuses, such as Northwestern, to research their programming styles. Liebler feels that if a college such as Northwestern, with a similar student body population to Notre Dame, can offer diverse play lists ranging from country to rap, so can WVFI. 
There are numerous obsta­des blocking WVFI's transition to FM status. Adele Lanan, Assistant Director of Student Aetivities, noted that WVFI still has a great deal to accomplish before they can go FM. The station must first apply for FCC approval and determine whether there is space for a new station on the FM band. Aecording to Lanan, that process alone could take· up to a year. The station must also raise enough money to buy an FM transmitter and antenna. 
These obstacles have not weakened the effort of WVFI empolyees. The process for FM status will continue· next week with the submission of an FM station proposal to Father Peter Rocca and Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice presidents for Student Affairs. 
WVFJ will propose a new look that caters to the majority of students while keeping its al­ternative nature. "We're very flexible and we really want to see WVFI become the voiee of Notre Dame," Liebler stated. 
In an attempt to reaeh more students, WVFI hopes to intro­duce specialty shows of diverse musical type and otTer air time to campus organizations. 
Aeeording to Liebler, "We see ourselves as another media outlet besides The Observer and Scholastic, and we are willing to implement shows for student groups whereby they can promote different events or 
see WVFI I pag~ 1 0 page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, March 24, 1995 

• 
.'!' 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Trials of Family Life 
Over spring break, for the first time ever, I fully understood what my twenty-four year-old sister means when she says she refuses to come home for more than a week at a time. . . 
Like many of last Aimee Garbnson 
semester's abroad stu-Assistant Accent Editor dents, financial rea--------­sons led me home for the week, essentially as a last resort. I returned to find my parents and three younger brothers firmly entrenched in a schedule that didn't include me. Last week the usual life continued with work, school, piano lessons, and basketball games ­continued, may I point out, whether I was there or not. The first night I was home, my family went out to dinner without telling me. When. I questioned my mother about it later, all she had to say for herself was "we just assumed you had other plans. You never want to do anything with us anyway." 
Granted, I did have other plans, and I'm sure that I would have rolled my eyes at the prospect of sitting between a twelve year-old and a seven year-old who would doubltessly be involved in a constant contest for the most repulsive table manners (or lack thereoO while slinging back and forth dialogue from "Peewee's Big Adventure" as the means to the ultimate insult. No, after midterms and an ali­day airport nightmare, there would have been no way I could have dealt with "I know you are but what am I?" without cracking some heads together. 
But this was not the point. Regardless of my attitude, my family's role is to attempt to entreat-no, cajole me into going on these lit; tie family excursions. Granted, past ex­perience has shown them that they will usual­ly be turned down, but it is their moral duty to indulge my young-adult-finding-myself­Generation-X-angst-ridden moodiness. 
So, that being the case, what was going on here? My sister's comment had always seemed to be a statement on the general chaos of which our household consists -a high­strung father, demanding brothers with their legions of friends, a mother slowly going crazy as the result of being the only female in this nesting ground for testosterone. My sister always seemed to make this off-handed remark about being home while being at­tacked by super-soakers or shown dad's great new computer software for the fiftieth time. A general intolerance with the constant zoo we call home was what I identified as the trigger for her cynicism. 
Now, though, I think I understand what she 
really means. She and I are adults now, and 
our role in the family has changed. We don't 
live at home; we have our own lives; we're 
(airly independent. The difference now is that 
we're actually treated as such, and, somehow, 
it's not as pleasant as we thought it would be. 
It's ironic how often we had verbally beat 
these points to death over the years -we can 
take care of ourselves, we can handle our own 
lives -and now here we both are, uncomfort­
able with our seemingly diminished role 'at 
home and scared of losing that safety. It's 
been hard for both of us to accept lesser roles 
in The Greatest Family in the World. 
However, at least now I only have to put up 
with Peewee from my roommates. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TtHlAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Kristi Kolski  Bridget Green  
Amy Schmidt  Production  
Mark Huffman  David Diaz  
Sports  Michelle Marcotte  
Matt Casey  Lab Tech  
Tom Schlidt  Nicky Barill  
Graphics  Accent  
Robert Bollman  Krista Na'lnery  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
" 

• Wom.D AT A GLANCE 
Police launch new raids, will question missing sect leader 
TOKYO Police in protective suits raided four more compounds of a doomsday  Th S d f th e preS 0 e"The Sublime Truth"  of Aum Shinri Kyo, or Sublime Truth. According to news reports, the sect's lawyer says sect leader Shoko  
religious sect Friday, spreading their  A  Sh'  . K  Asahara is willing to  answer police  
search for the  source of nerve gas  um  mn  yo  questions but refused to disclose his  
that killed 10 people in an attack on  Who leads them?  whereabouts.  
Tokyo's subway.  Osaka police spokesman Kiyotaka  
After finding dangerous chemicals Thursday at the rural headquarters  Name: Chizuo Matsumoto,known as Shoko Asahara  Yamamoto said the police raids Friday were looking for evidence in a kidnap- 
of Aum Shinri Kyo, police swept  Born: March 2,1955  ping case. But the chemical-protection  
down Friday on locations in Osaka.  Where: Island of Kyushu  gear worn by officers suggested they  
There were no arrests, and police  Personal background:  expect to find evidence linking the  
didn't say what they found.  • Fourth son of a tatami  group to Monday's attack .  
The NTV network said police found  mat maker  Thursday, bottles of chemicals were  
about 50 group members in one  • Practiced acupuncture  found  in  a  cult-owned  car  that  
Osaka-area building and another 75  • Sold medicines  crashed after a chase with police in  
in a prefabricated building at a con­ •Arrestedin1982forclaimingthata  western  Japan.  In  a  broadcast  
struction company related to the  concoction he sold could cure diseases;  Thursday to followers in Russia.  
group. · At the group's compound near Mt.  pleaded guilty and fined • Founded the religious group in 1984  Asahara, who dropped from sight after the attack, denied police found  
Fuji, military experts Friday were  What do they believe?  sarin ingredients.  
removing tons of chemicals. Police  • Outsiders wani to crush the sect.  Police  would  not  comment  on  
said they included fluorine and phos- No outsiders are allowed to enter the  reports that they plan to question  
phorous,. which can be used to make  sect's properties.  Asahara on suspicion of plotting mass  
sarin, the nerve gas used in the sub­ • Followers study yoga, meditation  murder. Asahara, a bearded, 40-year­ 
way attack Monday that also sick-L.::a:..::nd::...c:L::.:::....::.::::.:::..:.>?.:...._________J  old guru-like figure. warned his fol­ 

ened nearly 5,000 people. APfTerry Kole lowers the day before the subway Police reportedly want to question the missing leader attack to prepare for death. 
Wilson wants 1996 presidential bid Bacteria worsening public health 
LOS ANGELES TRENTONCalifornia Gov. Pete Wilson moved 
The emergence of bacteria strains that cannot bewithin a step of the 1996 GOP presi­killed by the current arsenal of antibiotics could become dential race on Thursday, giving a a public health threat worse than AIDS, experts warn.
campaign-style speech at a campaign­Diseases considered conquered -tuberculosis, pneu­style event and criticizing a federal monia, meningitis, staph infections -are becominggovernment that "simply has lost its unstoppable. Common bacteria that cause everythingway." Wilson announced the forma­
from toddlers' ear infections to pneumonia could
tion of an exploratory committee, a 
become "supergerms" resistant to vancomycin and
procedural move that allows him to other drugs. "Over the past five years or so it seems toraise money for a White House bid his advisers say pri­be taking on somewhat of an epidemic proportion," says vately he has already decided to make. As a candidate, Dr. Philip E. Coyne, medical review officer in the U.S.
he would have advantages -California is the biggest Food and Drug Administration's division of anti-infective delegate prize of all; he has easy access to Hollywood drugs. Scientists expect "nothing short of a medical dis­money, and he can run as a can-do state executive. In aster," Dr. Alexander Tomasz of Rockefeller Universityhis speech, Wilson laid out a conservative agenda: in New York City warned at the 1994 meeting of the
harsher penalties for criminals, welfare cuts and 
American Association for the Advancement of Science. 
reforms, lower taxes, tougher action against illegal Doctors eventually could have to resort to pre-antibioticimmigration and repeal of affirmative action laws. 
treatments such as cutting off infected wounds. 
Eccentricity key to happiness Movie release inflames Catholics 
NEW YORKLONDON A group that claims a new film about wayward priests Want to be happy forever? Try being an oddball. 
is anti-Catholic is demanding that it not be released onThat's what University of Edinburgh psychologist David Good Friday. The Catholic League also is urgingWeeks advises, based on his decade of research into Catholics to boycott "Priest," scheduled to be releasedhappy eccentrics. "I think I've obtained a different for­April 14 by Miramax, which is owned by Walt Disney.
mula for happiness," said Weeks, on a recent trip to The movie opens Friday in New York and Los Angeles,London to promote his book, "Eccentrics." Take 19th­three weeks ahead of the nationwide release, whichcentury Englishman Joshua Abraham Norton, the self­coincides with the day Christians commemorate theproclaimed Emperor of California. For 21 years, Norton death of Jesus. Catholic League President Williampatrolled the streets of San Francisco dressed in the Donohue, who saw the movie, said it is about five priestssame blue military uniform. He was happy, Weeks said. 
-one involved in a gay relationship, another sleepingEnglishman John Slater, the only person to have walked with his female housekeeper, a drunk, an uncaring bish­barefoot across England in pajamas, lives in a cave that op and a psychotic country priest. "Certainly you canis flooded every day during high tide. Ann Atkin, also of find priests who live twisted lives," said Donohue, whose England, has 7,500 plaster gnomes in her garden. 
group has 200.000 members. "It's the cause and effect"Why should we continue to groom ourselves properly that bothers us most; the fact that the Catholic Church is and comport ourselves according to social convention depicted as being directly responsible for the plight ofwhile those who flout convention seem to be having the these priests and their depraved conditions." Thetime of their life?" Weeks wonders. Weeks contends planned Good Friday release was "like adding salt tothat it's easy to distinguish between eccentrics and the the wounds," he said. 
mentally ill. The eccentrics are happy. 

Friday, March 24 
he Accu-Weather forecast for noon, Friday, March 24. 
Accu-Weather®forecast for daytime conditions and high tern 
MICH. 
IIndianapolis! 57° I 
ILL. 
• 

COLD C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta  74  45  Dallas  79  61  New Orleans 82  64  
Baltimore 54  28  Denver  43  25  New York  52  36  
Boston  46  30  Los Angeles 70  48  Philadelphia 55  31  
Chicago  53  28  Miami  83  66  Phoenix  72  46  
Columbus 57  26  Minneapolis 46  36  St. Louis  65  54  


page 3

Friday, March 24, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Latin America lacks market reform Pax Christi protests 
By Melanie Laflin News Writer 

"Economic changes in Latin America have simply not pro­duced liberal political organiza­tions," stated Frances Hagopian, Department of Politi­cal Science at Tufts University, during a lecture yesterday af­ternoon in the Hesburgh Center entitled, "State retreat and the reformulation of political repre­sentation in Latin America." 
"There are three types of political representation: state corporatism. clientelism, and ideological political parties," said Hagopian. "It is reason­able to expect changes, but a more liberal political represen­tation in Latin America can only parcially be expected. Old political relations are being reinstituted, while others are dissolved," remarked Hagopian. 
"Hagopian used Chile. Mexico, Argentina, and Brazil as exam­ples of varying transitions to 
Stereo 
Town &Country 
2340 N. Hickory Rd. • 259·9090 
Legends of the Fall 
rated .[11 
1:15, 4:00, 7:00, 9:45 
Hoo~te!!!Lams 
1 :00, 4:30, 8:00 
Red 
rated (R] 
. 1 :30, 4:45, 7:15, 9:30 

democracy. "Political representations were interrupt­ed, vulnerable to change, and definitely influenced by eco­nomic transitions," according to Hagopian. 
Chile was the first to adopt to market reform. "Under Pinochet, there was no negotia­tion with the people which ex­erted a destructive influence on Chilean life. Now, parties are still strong, though they may have lost individual member­ship and party identification may be weaker," said Hagopian. Chileans simply are not as involved with party poli­tics as before, according to Hagopian. 
As for Mexico, the state had a role in the economic transitions occurring throughout Mexico. "The new political system now emanates from the presidency while the old networks of local control of Mexican bosses has weakened," said Hagopian. 
In Argentina, the state com-
rated [PG-13] 
12:00, 2:30, 5:00, 7:30, 9: 
pletely "lacked negotiation with society." "The unions are still strong and are designed in recognition of the fact that they weren't a part of the negotiat­ing channel. Political parties as well as labor organizations are disorganized," stated Hagopian. 
Hagopian, who has written several articles on Brazilian and South American politics as well as a book Traditional Politics and Regime Change in Brazil, feels "economic reform is difficult to acheive." "Yet. Brazil. the strongest Latin American country economical­ly, has negotiated with its soci­ety more than any other Latin American country, " stated Hagopian. 
Hagopian, a former govern­ment and international studies professor at Notre Dame, con­siders her thesis as "work-in­progress" and during the lec­ture, encouraged participation of her audience which included several Notre Dame professors. 



governinent funding 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST American countries, graduates Associate News Editor of the School of the Americas have used their positions of Members of the campus power in El Salvador to quiet chapter of Pax Christi are join­dissenters, Conroy said. Ten 
years ago this week, Arch­
ing today a week-long fast 
bishop Oscar Romero of El Sal­
sponsored by the Washington, 
vador was assassinated for
D.C., chapter in protest of the 
speaking out against the injus­
federal government's funding 
tices of that country's military. 
of the U.S. Army School of the 
To commemorate the lOth
Americas. 
anniversary of Romero's death, 
The school, founded in 1946 
Notre Dame's f-ax Christi group 
and based in Columbus, Ga., 
is conducting a prayer service 
was established by the U.S. 
on the Fieldhouse Mall at 12:30
military to train leaders of Cen­
this afternoon. The service will 
tral American nations to fend 
also be used to show solidarity 
off revolutionaries. 
for all Pax Christi members
But while its goal was to 
who are fasting.
bring stability to that war-torn 
"Fasting is a non-violent way
region; the school has since 
of protesting the injustice that
degenerated into a camp for 
we see the School of the Ameri­
producing violators of human 
cas perpetrating," Conroy said.
rights, according to Fr. Kevin 
"Plus, it makes people aware
Conroy, who spent the last five 
[of the acts of human rights

years in El Salvador. As in other Central and South see PROTEST I page I 0 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
~~~[g) 
D~~~ 11~011@~~ 






r--Wnc~pec/a'i-, r-'7J,rt; flrne-::'fil£;-,
HOURS: 

I 1-10" Small II 1-16" Extra Large 
Monday-Thursday 11 :00 a.m. -1:00 a.m. 

I 2Topping Pizza II Two Toppings 
Friday &Saturrlay 11 :00 a.m. -3:00 a.m. Sunday Noon -1:00 a.m. 

: $59 ~ :: ~ 
_______....._ --_
L 
Addihonal Toppings !l5c each. Not valid with any other coupon. I I Additional Toppings $1.25 each. Not valid with any other coupon. I 
r -Tat81lu'fi1 !;ec'!af-, r --dtief1"r;g;--,
I I (9:00p.m. until closing) I I One Topping I I I 1-14" Large I I 695 I 1Topping Pizza I I I 
: : $59.~ : : $119~ :
......________. ._ _______ _.
I Additional Toppings 95C each. Not ra!id with any other coupon. I I Additional Toppings 95c eiJC/1 Not valid with •nr other coupoo. I 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 24, 1995 


Loans 
continued from page 1 

of the these funds to the Pell Grant Program which is tar­geted to lower-income students. Campus based programs in­clude Federal Perkins Loans which is a interest loan made to students by the college, the Federal Work-Study which of­fers campus part-time em­pJoyment to students who demonstrate financial need, and Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants. 
According to the February is­sue of Higher Education & Na­tional Affairs, hundreds of thousands of students, includ­ing many from middle class families, would be hit hard if the campus based programs were eliminated. It states that even if half of the savings from the cutting of these programs were redistributed into Pell Grants, which a proposal does favor, many middle class fami­lies would suffer because Pell Grants are targeted at lower­income recipients. 
Also, a current recipient of an average work-study award and an average Perkins Loan would stand to lose $2,407. In con­trast, the savings from the elimination of campus-based programs would permit an in­crease of only $200 in the max­imum Pell Grant. 
A third proposal would re­quire students who take out loans to pay interest on those loans while they are enrolled in college. Currently, the federal government pays the interest on these loans until the studen­t's education is complete. 
Students who rely on inter­est-exempt loans to attend col­lege would see their cost of 

•Specializingin engagement rings &anniversary rings· 
·Award Winning Designs· ·Custom Design and Repairs· 
~~ 
JEWELERS INC.
277_1010 

Cleveland Rd. East of UP Mall & US 31 North Villiage Mall 
JP;I( ne ;1/()/t;tte8aft-oo/1( Oal(ee etaJ O/f ;tlate-ei 25ti fofC' oar-a!f!faaf 



OII!ICEIITII();11,1 
10 aJK -101/ff tit Laf"o~ta.l(e 8af?oo/ff C~a-C~~ rf«~t~ Talf!o, 2--S'ttf, rft~eet Oal(etirf-­alf!t~tirf1oe~/ E~jtJI(e lt/efeo/ffe,l 11ar~Hrt~~;olf fo~ a!'!'l(tJI(-!I(e!l(be~~ 
attendance rise significantly if they are charged interest while still in school. Removing the interest exemption would increase the amount of indebt­edness by at least 15-20 per­cent per borrower. Undergraduates who borrows the maximum amount for four years would see their debt increase from $17,125 to $20,532. The longer the stu­dent stays in school the greater the impact of the change. 
The process of changing the financial aid program is very long and tedious, according to David Merkowitz, director of public affairs for the American Council on Education. 
"The process is like a Satur­day serial. There is a cliff hang­er every week," he said. 
· What does this all mean for students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's? 
According to Mary Nuccia­rone, director of fmancial aid at Saint Mary's 58 percent of Saint Mary's students are on some form of need based fman­cial aid. Forty six percent of students are receiving a subsi­dized Stafford Loan (subsidized means that interest is not charged while the student is in school). If the proposal regard­ing the student interest pay­ment is passed, then the stu­dents will be responsible for the interest payments, not the government. 
Nucciarone says that if these programs are eliminated, it will create a financial burden for the institution. "We will have to rethink the financial aid pro­gram and it will certainly have an impact on the resources available," she said. 
She also encouraged students to show support for student aid through contacting their repre­sentatives in Washington. 
"As the public is informed about the effect (of these pro­posals) I hope they will show that they still value education. Perhaps there are still creative ways to budget and have all goals met." 
At Notre Dame, more than 2,000 students are involved in some type of financial aid. This aid totals more than $6.5 mil­lion. According to Joe Russo, director of financial aid at Notre Dame, the greatest effect these proposals could have, especially the discontinuation of government paid interest on loans would be students access to colleges. 
"There is no question that the cost will be higher but it will impact students differently," said Russo. "Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are schools with a solid reputation so they would survive but it would be a significant hit for many stu­dents." 
"Looking at the percentage of students receiving assistance, these cuts and major changes could have an effect on the stu­dents ability to choose an school but we don't have the tools to predict exactly how," said Nucciarone. 
Russo commented that there is no question that these pro­posals, which are mostly part of the Republicans Contract with America, will be a money saver for the government, however he agreed that it is crucial for students to voice their opinions on the fmancial aid issues. 
"There are some causes to be concerned so I suggest that stu­dents and families express that concern to Congressmen," he said. "Thank them for their support thatenables them to be able to go to school and you ap­preciate the continued support of the programs." 
Bed'n'Breakfast 
Registry 

Rooms in privaJe hotMs for: JPW, BLUE & GOLD, GRADUATION, FOOT· BALL, FRESHMEN ORIENTATION and otber special ND-SMC events (219) 291-7153 
Dn gnu knDliJ tiJhat Nf}ZZ stands fnr?? Melt, neither dn liJe..... But gnu 'd better 
Jenco 
continued from page 1 

of water and cheese, a lunch of rice and cheese, and a dinner of bread and jam. 
At one point, according to him the lowest of his captivity, Fr. Jenco suffered over a month of solitary confinement in a closet. 
Fr. Jenco has worked to help people in need in various min­istries throughout his life-in West Australia, India, the Re­public of Yemen, and Thailand, as well as several regions in the U.S. 
A strong advocate for social justice, he and 13 others-the "Denver 14"-were once ar-
If you see something happening, call The Observer 
Music ~cital 

peiforming the worK§ of 
$rank C/Jridge Mozart Saint-Saens Smetana 
2:00p.m. Saturday, March 25, 1995 Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art Free and open to the public 
rested for interrupting a ses­sion of the Colorado State Senate. 
Jenco considers the oppor­tunity to tell the story of the faith and forgiveness in his experiences as a hostage as an important continuation of his ministerial work. 
"Talking to you one-on-one. . this is ministry. You touch the life of one person and the whole world is changed-and I'm convinced of that. One crippled child with polio in In­dia learns to walk, and all of India walks," Jenco said. 
Known as a gifted story­teller, Jenco's book entitled, "Bound to Forgive: A Pil­grimage of a Beirut Hostage," will be published in June 1995. 


SAB to sponsor former 'Brady' 
By BECKY MAYERNIK 
News Writer 
Barry Williams will speak about his life while growing up on "The Brady Bunch" in an appearance sponsored by the Saint Mary's Student Activities Board (SABI. 
Williams will be appearing in ()'Laughlin Auditorium on Wednesday, April 5 at 7 p.m. Tickets will available March 27 and 28 at the O'Laughlin Box Olliee for $3. 
Students will also have the opportunity to win tickets to the appearance of Williams, ac­eording to chairperson Aida Tessema. Students will have the chance to win by correctly answering "Brady trivia ques­tions" in the Saint Mary's Dining Hall next Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday dur­ing dinner. 
In addition to Williams' ap­pearance, SAB will sponsor a contest allowing students the chance to win a date with "Greg Brady", according to Tessema. Raffle tickets will be sold in the dining hall next week for the contest, and the winner's date will take place after the show. 
Mary Udovich, the current All Campus Event Chairperson, was recently named SAB Coordinator for the next school year. Applications are now being taken for the new chairpersons of SAB, and these positions should be appointed by April 5, according to SAB Coordinator Audrey Comrie. 

In other SAB news: 
•The movie "The Mask" will be playing tonight at 7 and 9:30 
p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. 
•The 
Guatemalan Sale will return to Saint Mary's next week, and will be held in the Le Mans lobby each day from 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 

•Comedian 
Scott Henry will appear at Saint Mary's for Junior Mom's Weekend. He will be performing in Haggar Parlor on March 31 at 9 p.m. 

•SAB 
will also be distributing tickets to the South Bend Silver Hawks game on April 9, which is opening day, according to chairperson Kelly Kilmer. 150 tickets were ordered, and will be distributed at the Haggar front desk in the next few weeks. 


NOTRE DAME BLACK LAW STUDENTS ASSOCIATION 
22nd Annual Alumni Weekend 
Panel Discussion: Race, Media & the Law Saturday, March 25th, 1995 -1:30 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
Panelists include: Debra Daniel -WSBT,TV South Bend Prof. G. Robert Blakey-Notre Dame Law Professor Cleo Washington-South Bend Attorney 
Guest Speaker: 
Rapheal M. Prevot, Jr. 
National Football League Attorney 
Saturday, March 25th, 1995 -8:00p.m. 
Hesburgh Center for Int'l Peace Studies Auditorium 
Barber: Service education the key to America's future 
By CHRISTINE DEBEVEC 
News Writer 
Not everyone connects the University of Notre Dame to merely a football team. Benjamin Barber has always connected Notre Dame to the Urban Institute, the Center for Social Concerns, and Fr. 1-Iesburgh's service programs. 
Barber, the Walt Whitman professor of Political Science at Rutgers University, says of Notre Dame, "No where else is the link between service and education better understood." But he feels that even on this campus, certain issues need to be talked and thought about. 
According to Barber, the three ideas of citizenship, com­munity and service are all woven together in the context of democracy. "We've been a democracy for so long, we take it for granted," claims Barber. "Democracy is worn and tired and in trouble. Democracy in America is in trouble and needs · the fuel of active, engaged citi­zens." 
Barber referred to many statistics that reflect the trouble that America has encountered. Over half the children in Amer­ica live in and are born into poverty. One-half of the African-American population is involved in the justice system. More young blacks are in prison than in college and the government spends more money on its prisoners than on its students. 
In urban schools, one-half of students in urban schools drop out,and eighty-five percent of these drop-outs are destined to become prisoners. 
Barber gives a solution to these rising problems that face a growing nvmber of Americans. "There is no sim­pler way to control the crime problems than to keep the kids in school," he said. 
"There is a direct link between education and democ­racy," said Barber. "If educa­tion is in trouble, than democ­racy is in trouble." 
One of the most telling signs of this troubled education sys­tem is the discrepency that America is a country that has graduate schools that are the envy of the entire world, but also have the worst urban pri­mary schools. 
Barber believes that, as a 

society, we have lost sight of the link between democracy and education. 
"Democracy is not for, by and of the people. Democracy is for, by and of the citizens," he said. 
"Citizens are not born, they are made by education," said Barber. He said that citizen­ship and social responsibility are not easy tasks. They must be learned in just the same way that athletes learn their sports. 
The problem of modern America is that we have sepa­rated these ideas of democracy and education. Americans today think that democracy means rights, and they know all about their rights, feels Barber. 
"Bights are useless without responsibilities. They are claims which can be made good on in a democratic society where citizens are responsible," he said. 
Citizens can become citizens by being involved in service, which enables people to recog­nize their own role in the com­munity in which they live. 
Service learning is an impor­tant project to revitalize educa­tion which in turn will revitalize the democracy. Service learn­ing is not just learning about service, but means incorporat­ing service. 
Service learning, said Barber, is key to giving citizens an imagination that enables them to look beyond the color of the skin, or an accent, or sexual preference. It can also help one to understand what it means to belong to a commu­nity and how one can help his/her community to Ouorish. 
Service learning also helps to understand the role of differ­ences in society. "Diversity in America," said Barber, "is our strength." 
Finally, Barber suggests that America needs "ordinary" prin­cipals and teachers to do the job of educating students. America needs to stop looking for a "hero" to save it. 
Barber also said that "citizen­ship is about the power to gov­ern one's own life and to partic­ipate in the structures of the communities we live in." Being engaged in service learning is a way to gain this power. 
Barber urged the students of Notre Dame to not just "sit on the sidelines," but to become "agents of change, which is a simple definition of a citizen. 
A democracy needs citizens 

---------~---------~----­
Friday, March 24, 1995
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
An Open Letter to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community on Administration Policy toward Lesbians, Gays and Bisexuals 
Just prior to spring break, Vice President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara issued a public response to the Campus Life Council's resolution calling for the granting of official status to the long-unrecognized Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and St. Mary's College (GLND/SMC). We were pleased to see that Prof. O'Hara affirms lesbians and gays as integral and valued members of the Notre Dame community and speaks of "the University's genuine desire to acknowledge and affirm the presence of gay and lesbian students in our midst." This statement represents an important and appreciated step forward in the life of our community. 
The arguments put forward and the conclusion reached, however, are at odds with the affirmative statements that Prof. O'Hara makes. We were pained to see that the Office of Student Affairs seems unable to rid itself of the belief that somehow, at the core, lesbians and gay men are less responsible, less faithful, and less worthy of trust than our heterosexual peers. We do not say this to be inflammatory or to score rhetorical points, but because after carefully reading the statement and listening to public defenses of the administration policy, it is sadly the only conclusion we can draw. In the continued denial of recognition for GLND/ SMC, in the proposed committee, and in imposition of Campus Ministry as our only gathering space-each seems to reflect a belief that others know better than we what we need. 
In rejecting the call for the recognition of GLND/SMC, Prof. 0'Hara seeks to close off any further discussion of the issue. Indeed, the committee to be formed is proscribed from addressing "recognition of GLND/SMC or another student group." We are told of our "philosophical dissent from Church teaching." Incredibly, Prof. O'Hara cites as evidence of this dissent a proposal that GLND/SMC borrowed from Fr. Malloy's doctoral disserta­tion. 
No. other group on campus is held to such a 
rigid standard of orthodoxy. No other group is 
expected to prove over and over again that it 
does not dissent with Church teaching. We find 
it demeaning that any gathering of gays and 
lesbians not closely supervised by ecclesial 
authorities must be suspect. The Faculty 
Senate's overwhelming rejection of Prof. 
O'Hara's response the day after it was pub­
lished rightly calls into question the theological 
and philosophical underpinnings of the 
administration's intransigent refusal of recogni­
tion for GLND/SMC and its treatment of 
lesbians and gays. 
In proposing that a committee be formed to 
advise on issues not related to the recognition 
question, Prof. O'Hara is overriding the 
function of the Campus Life Council, the body 
empowered by the university to advise Student 
Affairs on issues related to student life. Worse, 
the two spaces reserved on the committee for 
gay or lesbian students will be filled only by 
persons pre-screened by Prof. O'Hara. GLND/ 
SMC has not been contacted even to offer 
... 

recommendations of qualified persons to serve on the committee. This despite the fact that it has been GLND/SMC addressing the needs of and providing support to a group largely ignored by the administration. And all GLND/ SMC has done since 1984 has been accom­plished through volunteer labor and self­generated funding. Despite this decade-long record of service, the gays and lesbians of GLND/SMC are given no place at the table. 
In now telling us that Campus Ministry is where Notre Dame's gays and lesbians can best be served, the administration is ignoring and denying a troubled history with this office. Sadly, Campus Ministry has not always shown itself to be a safe or welcoming place for Notre Dame's lesbians, gays and bisexuals. It is painful for us to discuss this history. Many fine, caring people have worked in the Office of Campus Ministry, and a few individuals in this office have demonstrated genuine concern for the needs of our community. 
As an institution, however, Campus Ministry has over the last decade left gays and lesbians feeling marginalized or worse. For most of the 1992-93 academic year, one of the GLND/SMC co-chairs worked with Fr. Tom McDermott to establish a Campus Ministry outreach to gays and lesbians, but the initiative was killed by superiors. Just last year, during the "Keeping the Faith" series on sexuality, gays and lesbians were explicitly excluded from participation on a student panel. The message of that exclusion was not lost on the many of us who attended the series. 
Most seriously, we have had reports from 
former students who indicate that they were 
"outed" to parents and others at Notre Dame by 
the former director of Campus Ministry. These 
stories are painful to hear, and their telling re­
opens deep wounds for the victims of the 
outing incidents. It is important, we believe, 
that these allegations be addressed honestly, 
because Notre Dame's gays and lesbians are 
being told that Campus Ministry is to serve as 
the substitute for GLND/SMC. We are 
reluctant to relive this past, but Fr. Richard 
Warner's recent statements force us to address 
the issue directly. On March 1 of this year Fr. 
Warner, writing as director of Campus Ministry, 
sent a letter to all undergraduate students at 
Notre Dame. There is much in the content and 
tone of this letter that we, as gays and lesbians, 
find troubling and divisive. Most distressing, 
however, is Fr. Warner's easy dismissal of past 
wrongs said to have been committed by the 
Office of Campus Ministry toward gay and 
lesbian students. 
' 
Fr. Warner wrote: "We never have and 
never will, knowingly or unknowingly, 'out' 
someone to parents nor to anyone else includ­
ing other staff members. Such an action would 
simply be unconscionable. This accusation has 
been made and refuted on numerous occasions. 
It is false." 
We are disturbed that neither Fr. Warner 
nor other staff in Campus Ministry contacted us 
to determine the source of these allegations before dismissing them as false. An alumnus, who was shown a copy of the Campus Ministry's letter, wrote to Fr. Warner on March 17; a copy of his correspondence was for­warded to the leadership of GLND/SMC. The former student describes how Fr. Warner's predecessor. Fr. Andre Leveille, phoned the student's mother to tell her that her son was gay, and instructed her that it was a matter of "university policy" to inform parents whenever a student was found out to be homosexual. The student's rector was also told of his sexual orientation without the student's permission. 
Such an action is indeed "unconscionable." 
Most distressingly, it seems to.have been but 
one of many incidents. 
We know of no such breaches of confi­dence under Father Warner's tenure as director of Campus Ministry, but we are disturbed that past abuses are simply denied and the victims' credibility impugned. As lesbians and gay men, as elected leaders of GLND/SMC, we would like to put this painful history behind us. We believe it important that a process of healing and reconciliation between the Office of Campus Ministry and the lesbian and gay members of the Notre Dame community begin. But this process will be hindered-and trust will be justifiably slow to come-without a frank acknowledgment of past transgressions. 
Clearly, the establishment of a Campus Ministry program at this time is premature and, in the present context, can serve only to divide rather than unite. We call upon Fr. Malloy to undertake a thorough, credible investigation of these allegations, determine the severity and extent of the alleged abuses, and publicly report the findings. The Notre Dame community, its lesbian and gay members and, most especially, the victims of any past abuses by Campus Ministry are owed that much. The attitude that lesbians and gay men cannot be trusted to identify and properly address their own needs is disrespectful and must be ended. Such an attitude fosters the belief that others know better and is likely what motivates those who would breach confidence. 
The time has come to truly understand the 
lesbian, gay and bisexual students, faculty and 
staff as "valued and int~gral members of the 
Notre Dame community." This understanding 
must, however, go beyond words and be 
demonstrated by a trust in our responsibility 
and faithfulness as members of this community, 
a trust that must include the formal recognition 
of GLND/SMC. The understanding ought to 
entail a respect for our ability to be meaningful 
participants in the formation of future policy 
toward lesbians and gays on this campus. 
GLND/SMC should be held to the same 
standards as any other group on this campus­
nothing more, nothing Jess. 
It is simply a matter of justice. 
Kelly Smith, Co-Chair 
John Blandford, Co-Chair 
B. J. Bruther, Board Member Jesus Uresti, Board Member 



GLND/SMC 
Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College 
Friday, March 24, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Fischer, Vicari awarded Fulbright fellowships Traditions 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
Seniors Christopher Fischer and Christopher Vicari were re­cently awarded Fulbright fel­lowships to study abroad in the 1995-96 academic year. 
The Fulbright fellowship is a prestigious award designed to give talented students a chance ta study abroad after gradua­tion. 
Fischer, a senior history and German major from Cincinnati, has been awarded a grant to study the nationalism of South Tyrol, a German-speaking area of northern Italy, while attend­ing the University of Innsbruck in Austria. 
"Basically, I've been given a stipend to pay for me to go to lnnsbruck to take a few classes and research my topic," said Fischer. 
After studying abroad at Inns­bruck his sophomore year and doing research at Notre Dame last summer, Fischer decided upon his topic. 
"Last summer I had a grant from the National Endowment for Humanities, so I was here doing research. From that, along with my experience in Innsbruck previously, I formu­lated my topic of South Tyrol," said Fischer. 
Fischer will be in Innsbruck from the end of September 1995 through June 1996. Upon return, he plans on attending graduate school and eventually receiving his doctorate in his­tory. 
Vicari will study at the University of Bologna research­ing Italian literature with an emphasis on the poetry of the Italian-Jewish author Giorgio Bassani. 
Bassani wrote during World War II and survived persecu­tions in Italy. 
"You never think Italy went through the same thing as Ger­many, so I want to show Italy's side of the war," said Vicari. 
"I have had the unique oppor­tunity of meeting Bassani. I went sophomore year with the Saint Mary's program to Italy, and through sheer happenst­nace was able to meet him. He Jives in Rome, so I will be able to interview him there. I will travel back and forth between Rome and Bologna," said Vi­cari. 
This connection to Bassani and Vicari's own experiences in Italy helped Vicari narrow down his topic. 
"My sophomore year was the greatest year, and I've been looking for a chance to get back to Italy ever since. You always think it is impossible to get a Fulbright, but after I got the let­ter from the actual author ev­erything fell into place," said Vicari. 
Sources familiar with the Ful­bright competition say Vicari was the first-place winner in Italy. 
After his year abroad, Vicari has been given a grant to teach Italian at Notre Dame and get his master's degree in Italian. 
The selection process of the recipients is extremely rigorous and competitive. The appli­cants are examined first by a national board, followed by a board of the individual coun­tries. 
"The kind of scrutiny they get is rigorous, but there is no rea­son why Notre Dame can't win more fellowships than any other school. We already have an incredibly record. Last year we had ten winners. This year is still early in the process, but we already have four. It is all simply a question of organiza­tion. We win by getting people to think early," said Fulbright advisor James McAdams. 
Although the selection pro­cess is difficult, the end goal is worth it, according to McAdams. 
"You end up with an all ex­penses paid study for a year in the city of your choice researching the topic you want to. It is an opportunity most people can only dream of, along with receiving a prestigious award to carry around for the rest of your life," said McAdams. 
Twenty students per year from Notre Dame normally ap­ply for the fellowship, but McAdams is hoping to increase these numbers. 
"The main problem is com­municating to students the in­formation, but I hope to con­vince all Notre Dame students that we can win. We can com­pete with anyone on any sub­ject," said McAdams. 
keep Andes culture alive 
By LAURA SMITH News Writer 
Women of the Andes region have kept the ancient culture alive since before the Spanish colonialization although they have just recently become rec­ognized, according to Kevin Healy, visiting scholar at the Kellogg Institute at Notre Dame. 
He presented a lecture, "Women Weavers Of The An­des: Artistic Traditions, Cul­tural Identity And Economic Development", yesterday at Saint Mary's. 
Healy's lecture focused on the textiles of women from southern Peru and Bolivia. These women, some of the poorest and least educated in the world, have immense pride in their ethnic group and cul­ture. They have been preserv­ing their culture and identity in textiles since pre-Columbian times. 
"It is only recently that these textiles have been recognized as decorative arts and these women have been acknowl­edged," said Healy. 
Healy also pointed out that the looms the Andean 
see ANDES I page 8 

Two Convenient Locations Close to Campus! 
South Beild-University Comm011S 
(across from University Park Mall) 
Phone 272·7653 Mishawaka-Grape and McKinley 
(located near Kmart) 
Phone 2:lG·9656 

SPIRITUAL LIVING IN A SECULAR WoRLD 
WHEN?-fRlDAY, MARCH 31-SUNDAY, APRIL 2 
ALL WELCOME! 
SIGN-UP NOW AT THE CAMPUS MINISTRY OFFICE, 103 HESBURGH LIBRARY. 
QlJ ESTI0 N S? -CALL FR. BoB Dowo. C. S.C. AT 631-7800 OR 631-5056 OR PATRICK BARREDO AT 272-6998. 

SPONSORED BY 
4TH DAY



0MPUS 

MINISTRY 

• Games to 15 Points 
• Single Elimination THREE POINT & FREE THROW CONTEST • Head to Head Competition • 45 Second Shooting Period • Double Elimination 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
LAST SIGN-UPS! 
FRIDAY, MARCH 24 11 :30-3 PM 
In LaFortune 
SATURDAY, MARCH 25 12-4 PM 
In the Great Hall in O'Shag 
ABSOLUTE LAST SIGN-UPS 
SUNDAY, MARCH 26 1-4 PM 
In LaFortune 
2TEAM NAMES • 2 CAPTAINS $13 Late Sign-up Fee 

page 8 

Andes 
continued from page 7 

women use to weave their tex­tiles are simple, but on them, the women create complex and sophisticated designs. "The woman's relationship with her loom is a sacred relationship" said Healy. 
"It's very important to look closely to see the juxtapostion of colors on the textiles which are a symbolic language" according to Healy. Women were the creators of this sym­bolic language which has been carried from generation to gen­eration. 
The style and color of the 
textiles reflect the lives of the 
natives and the environmental 
beauty of the land. "Textiles 
represent beauty and culture in 
all the public occasions," he 
said. 

These occasions include political marches, festivals, and the visits of foreign dignitaries. 
Textiles are a sign of wealth 
and are used by women to woo 
a man to court her. The people 
of the Andes also use textiles 
as prayer cloths. 

According to Healy, the art 
form of weaving died out in the 
A:ndes in the late 1960s. A 
couple of anthropologists 
developed a strategy to revive 
textiles. 

They photographed old tex­
tiles owned by collectors and 
trained young girls to weave 
the designs. They also intro­
duced spinning machines 
which saved time. 

Tourists began to buy the textiles. The economy and sex roles in the Andes changed. "Women became the bread­winners" said Healy. 
While the Andes people were once ridiculed for wearing their native dress, now the tex­tiles hang in museums world­wide. Weavers come from all over the world to learn Andean technique. 
"The revitalization of textiles recovered the dignity of the weavers and the ethnic group" Healy said. "The textile designs have an appeal cross­culturally because they are so beautiful." 
Foundations, such as the one 
Healy is with, are creating 
marketing channels to award 
women for their labor and tal~ 
ent. 

"The textile industry has a 
great potential for helping 
communities. But the danger 
is that motifs will be printed on 
T-shirts and other goods and 
the Andean people will receive 
no benefits" he said. 

Healy received his bache­lor's degree in Sociology from the University of Notre Dame and his PhD from Cornell University. He is currently a member of the Inter-American Foundation. 
Healy has over 20 years 
experience with grassroots de­
velopment, and he argues for 
development which respects 
native culture and traditions. 

The lecture was sponsored by 
the Office of Multicultural Af­
fairs. 
SOUTH BEND 
RECORD&CD 
COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
SUNDAY, MARCH 26TH 10:00 AM-5:00 PM 
AT: THE HOUDAY INN 
(UNIVERSITY} SIS DIXIEWAY N. 
US 31 -33 NORTII 

BUY. SELL.TRADE COLLECfiBLES FROM THE 
LP's -CD's -45's · 12 indo sin1Iu -ilflptNa 
The Observer ··NEWS 


Aspin 
continued from page 1 
the military," Aspin s:rid. 

Worse, the debate over such missions has complicated for­eign policy politics in Washing­ton. 
"It's scrambled up the hawks and doves like you wouldn't believe. With value cases, you can't tell who is going to vote how before (a Congressional debate)," Aspin said. 
He cited the positions of the Catholic Church and the Black Caucus, which historically have been staunchly reluctant to sanction military action. But the Black Caucus pushed for an operation in Somalia, and the Catholic Chul'ch "has been hawkish," according to Aspin, amid reports of ethnic cleans­ing in Bosnia. 
Oher reasons such cases are 
difficult to authorize, he said, 
are that the U.S. public will see 
visual pictures and demand 
action in the name of values, 
and then change their mind 
soon after; and the difficulty of 
choosing when and where to 
intervene. 

Aspin was concerned with what he said was "an agenda driven by CNN (and TV in gen­eral). We're concerned be­cause we see it on the tube, and it's eas;y to get angry with pictures of violence. But people change their minds, and that makes it difficult for ad­
---~ 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service -$1.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesdey through Sunday 


1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
[219] 232-844~ 

Friday, March 24, 1995 ministrations to deal with." complete value missions, which 
He said that when the public collectively changes its mind in such situations, other countries and their leaderships begin to think that the way to stop an American intervention is by killing Americans and letting domestic U.S. pressure force a withdraw! of troops. 
Aspin also noted a dislike of value-based missions on the part of the military itself. 
"It doesn't take a lot of read­ing between the lines to figure out the U.S. military is not anx­ious to take such operations," said Aspin. 
In order to guide debate as to 
whether or not to begin an op­
eration based on values, Aspin 
proposed three steps to be 
taken. 
First, he advocated that a 
coherent policy be formed and 
consistently followed. He 
charged-that no policy has ex­
isted since the end of the Cold 
War. 
Second. he stated that the 
military may need to be adapt­
ed and trained to successfully Aspin said have different rules of engagement. "We can ask our military to be soldiers or police, but not both," he said. He said that designating specif­ic military units to the cause 
had been tried by the British · Army in Northern Ireland, but 
had led to some soldiers being 
looked on as "second class." 
His final proposal was that scholars and analysts be hired to "figure out this kind of world (with the end of Cold War poli­tics), where such missions worked and where it didn't, and to learn from any mistakes made." 
"The countries will change, 
but the issues will continue to 
stay the same, " he said. 
As well as serving as secre­tary of defense, Aspin also chaired the House Armed Services Committee from 1985 to 1992. He currently holds positions at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C., and at Marquette University. 


are now being accepted for the 
Freshman Orientation Committee. 
Applications are available in the Student Government Office and are due by Friday, March 31. 
pa.sters -""'I<Uina -boob -COitOtrt p/lotol -video.! I shirts -CIUUIIQ • pUu -paldtu tJNIIIIUd! ....-1!1 
FORDEALEil 
------------------------------------------------------------,
Large 2-Topping Pizza 






$599 
plustax 

~!!!~!!!!!~®-~~:~~~~=~~~$£~ ~~~~::~=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~~~·~~:~~e:~~:::n~u:~: :M::·_.J 
--------------------------------------------------------------,
1 0 piece Wings, Hot or BBQ 
Power $599 
plus tax 

.~~~~~llilliilll<"-~~~~:-~:~~~~!'~~ ~~v~:::=7~~~~~:~~~~~~~:~~~~~!~~~~~o!:~:·~·~~·:~~n~u: ~: ~n~:·_.J 
--------------------------------------------------------------,
2 Medium Cheese Pizzas 
What is the role of Mary 
$ 7 99 
plus tax

and the Saints in 
~~~~~!:srt=ti1~~s~~s So~~~ ~~rv:~~8~t~r:"J'o~~~~~':d f~~=~e~Yiv~an~S~1u:~~~~J:~:J~~·~~~:Xc~reas limrted to ensure safe driv1ng.
the church? 
-------------------------------------------------------------.l 
(/) 
0 ~ 
~< 
:?iN





289-0033 • 
QN
cO:

Lunches 
,;; 
~ 

Toppings 
Extras 

Onions • Green Pepper • Beef 
Twisty Bread & Dipping Sauce 
Luncheon Discussions 'r' Coming March 29,
• 

Pepperoni • Mushrooms 
$.99 

Black Olives • Ham
12:20 p.m. to 1:00 p.m. 
Pizza-Garlic-Jalapeno available on request 

Cheddar Cheese • Hot Peppers
Upstairs in the Faculty Dining Room 
Coke or Diet Coke 

Sausage • Bacon • Pineapple 
$.50/can $1.49/2-/iter
above the South Dining Hall 
page 9

Friday, March 24, 1995 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


American Neo-Nazi arrested in Denmark 
The 41-year-old Lauck once said Jews were treated too nicely in Nazi concentration camps and claimed Jews were the "main belligerents" in World War II. 
The Anti-Defamation League of B'nai Brith, the Jewish group that has dubbed Lauck the "Farm Belt Fuehrer," wel­comed news of his arrest. "We're one happy group of people," Bob Wolfson, the Anti­Defamation League's regional director, said Thursday from Omaha, Neb. 
Lauck's anti-Semitic material has gone to several other na­tions as well. In the United States, he has circulated videos with titles such as "Race And Reason." In one of them, he looks a little like Hitler himself, giving a stiff-arm salute as he stands in front of a swastika flag. 

Germany had been pressing the FBI to shut down Lauck's printing presses in Lincoln, but they could not, because of U.S. constitutional guarantees of free speech. 
Germany sent arrest war­rants sent via Interpol to 15 European countries where Lauck was thought to have supporters. He was arrested in Hundige, a Copenhagen sub­urb. 
Germany has asked Denmark to extradite Lauck for trial. 
The warrants accuse Lauck of distributing illegal propaganda and Nazi symbols, incitement, 

By TERRENCE PETIY 
Associated Press 
BONN 

An American who has spread neo-Nazi literature across Eu­rope was under arrest Thurs­day in Denmark, while German police seized weapons and pro­paganda in raids on 80 homes of his teen-age supporters. 
After a cat-and-mouse chase across Europe, Gary Lauck of Lincoln, Neb., was seized Mon­day on an international arrest warrant issued by Germany. 
Lauck thwarted German au­thorities for two decades, tak­ing advantage of his base in the United States to act as the main supplier of hate literature to German fascists. 
• Single Elimination THREE POINT & FREE THROW CONTEST • Head to Head Competition • 45 Second Shooting Period • Double Elimination 
encouraging racial hatred and belonging to a criminal group. He could be sent to jail for five years if tried and convicted. 
The operation against Lauck, called "Atlantic II," was coor­dinated by German federal po­lice and Hamburg law authori­ties, who have long had a war­rant out for his arrest. 
"This (propaganda) delivery route to Nazi sympathizers has been a thorn in our side for a long time and we hope we have decisively disrupted it," said federal police spokesman Willi Fundermann. 
Danish officials would not say why they waited until Thursday to announce Lauck's arrest, but it appeared they did not want to tip off his German followers. 



PLUS 
lMILEWALK SATURDAY, APRil, 1,11:00 AM STEPAN CENTER 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL REGISTRANTS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE $6.00 DAY OF I~ACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT 
CCIEIIRII~'li'MA~ liN AIPIHII[. ~ SPONSORED BY ~04'KL'] tPm~~---~6 ~~ ~~' 
Sweden detains refugees 
By KEVIN COSTELLOE 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM 
Under fire from human rights groups and a member of the royal family, Swedish authorities on Thursday sus­pended deportations of Bosnian refugees to Croatia. 
The government wants to expel 5,000 Bosnian Croats who entered Sweden with Croatian passports. Opponents said the refugees would face discrimination if returned home, and could be sent back to areas where there is light­ing. 
Hundreds of refugees have fled into hiding in homes and churches in Sweden since the deportations began a week ago. 
A spokesman for the national prison commission said Thurs­day the expulsions were halted while a Swedish delegation toured Croatia. 
In Zagreb, U.N. refugee spokesman Jan Bolling told the Swedish news agency TT that Sweden should wait "a few months" before sending people back into an uncertain situa­tion. 
Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! 

Official Wholesale Pri&L list! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 
55 E. Wtuhington, Chicaga, fl. 6()(J0] For • Frrr 31-Pogr Color Clllalog Tb/1-Fnr (8()(}) 911-()(}90 FAX (Jl2) 977-0U/t btUnul CJIIIJ1o1 aJ bttp: lh•'•'W.JO~£k.comlu~rk 


Attention Saint Marys' ~~ Students! 
Be A Part of the 
~~ 

Student Activities Board! This is your opportunity to be a part STUDENT
of the EXCITEMENT and 
ACTIVITIES 
B·O·A·R·D


bring GREAT events to 
SAINT MARY'S C 0 L L E ,G E

your college campus. 
Pick up applications at the Haggar Front Desk. 
Due Tues., March 28 at the Haggar Desk by 5:00p.m. 


STUDENT 
ACTIVITIES 
B·O·A-R·D 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 

page 10 The Observer • NATIQNAL NEWS Friday, March 24, 1995 
the 1980s. It was later discov­ered that 120 of the victims

Protest 
were children under the age of 


House GOP modifies welfare bill 
continued from page 3 
violations]." 
Erika Effler, president of Notre Dame's Pax Christi, agrees with Conroy, but said the fast -which will allow for a liquid diet only -also has another benefit. 
""It is powerful spiritually," Effler said. "People identify with fasting because everyone gets hungry. If you're not go­ing to eat, people take notice." 
What Conroy and Effier want people to notice is the crimes and abuses of power by several graduates of the School of the Americas. 
"In many cases, the military has overstepped the bounds of correct military procedure," Conroy said. 
Some of the injustices com­mitted by dictators include the one-day massacre by authori­ties of 900 people believed to be revolutionaries in the town of El Mozote in El Salvador in 
WVFI 
continued from page 1 
clubs." 
They are also proposing air time to Campus Ministry for a show on Sunday mornings. WVFI would be open to broad­casting church services or gen­eral religious programming. 
Also included in the proposal is the desire to reach students living off campus. "We want to reach the off-campus popula­tion which is traditionally alienated from campus life," stated Liebler. 
The push to go FM stems from the poor listening quality of AM radio and the fact that many students cannot receive the station in their rooms. According to Liebler, "AM fre­quency is for news radio, but music should be broadcast in FM." 
Liebler feels that the University should update radio services in conjunction with the modernization of the rest of cftmpus services. "We have such technologically advanced buildings as DeBartolo but our radio services are practically antique,'' said Liebler. 
12. 
The military is also blamed with the death of four Mary­knoll sisters identified with the radical left for their work with refugees, Conroy said. 
Pax Christi plans to follow up with its protest of the School of the Americas by showing a videotape, "School of Assas­sins," which describes the op­erations of the school. during the ·lunch hour Monday through Friday next week in LaFortune. 
"Romero,'' a film detailing the life of the late archbishop: is tentatively scheduled to be shown in LaFortune's Mont­gomery Theater on Tuesday at 7:30p.m. 
Today's prayer service is con­tingent upon approval from William Kirk, assistant vice­president of Residence Life. The petition to meet was sub­mitted in the names of Effler, Amy Vosburg, and Aaron Summers, all members of Pax Christi. 

Associated Press 
In their "Contract With Amer­ica," House Republicans promised action in 10 areas during the first 100 days of the GOP-controlled Congress. 
On Thursday, Day 79: 
•The 
House, in a series of votes, modified the GOP's wel­fare reform bill to increase funding for child care, require states to hold down the costs of infant formula purchases, and permit some ill and disabled immigrants to continue to re­ceive welfare benefits. Democrats called the changes mere tinkering in a harsh bill. 

•The 
Senate moved toward a vote on a bill to give presidents power to veto individual spend­ing items in appropriations bills. The House has already passed a broader version of the line-item veto. President Clinton supports the concept. 



The Hammes 

.DAME BOO_._........ 
•A Senate committee ap­proved a regulatory reform bill that would require that any fed­eral rule costing the economy $100 million undergo a formal cost-benefit and comparative risk review before being issued. A far more restrictive bill has passed the House. 
The legislative status of chief "Contract" items: · 
FISCAL CONTROLS 
•Constitutional 
amendment requiring a balanced budget by 2002. Passed House. Defeated in Senate. 

•Bill 
giving the president power to veto individual spend­ing items in appropriations bills. Senate action pending; House passed its version 294­134 on Feb. 6. 

•Bill 
to discourage Congress from imposing requirements on states and cities without provid­ing funds to pay for them. Bill passed, Clinton signed into law. 


WELFARE 
•House debating welfare re­form. No Senate action yet. The bill would replace the federal system with payments to the states, which could design their own plans. Overall federal wel­fare spending would shrink by $66.4 billion over five years. 
The measure would limit the federal role in setting nutrition standards and in caring for the country's most disadvantaged families, impose a five-year limit on cash welfare benefits, ban aid to unmarried parents under age 18 and repeal the automatic guarantee to benefits for low-income mothers and their children. 
The bill also would combine school breakfast and lunch, day-care feeding, and Women, Infants and Children feeding programs in block grants. Passed House committee. 

Alumni FamllyHall 
•AFH 
is a summer hotel (operated by the Alumni Association) servicing alumni and friends of Notre Dame. 

•
AFH is now hiring ~nergetic and hardworking students to contribute to its continued success in the summer of '95! 


Applications are available at the Alumni Association Office in the Main Building 
and are due WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29 Questions? Call Amy Zwerk@ 634-1330. 


Presents the Largest Theatre Complex in the Mishawaka.& South Bend Area! 



MOVIES 10 



Boos greet Queen in Soweto 
By PAISLEY DODDS ofSouth Africa. six English pounds and a bicy­Associated Press About 500 people cheered cle they received for their ef­wildly when Mandela arrived. forts long ago. SOWETO, South Africa The crowd also waved towel­"We are hoping that the 
A rain-come the queen, but some boo­queen will do something for us s o a k e d 
ing broke out when she got out because we never got any pay­c r o w d of her Land Rover without wav­ment from our service," said cheered for ing back. Germany Mlkwena, 81. President Mandela and the queen un­The queen and her husband, Nelson veiled a plaque on the stone­Prince Phillip, then left for a Mandela but and-brick monument honoring British-funded center for para­shouted a members of the South African plegics.
::· 
'"'·'<·......

few boos at Native Labor Contingent, an Later, she visited Q u e e n Queen unarmed unit that performed Baragwanath Hospital, and Elizabeth II manual labor and served offi­angered nurses there by not
Elizabeth 

at a memo-cers. More than 600 members waving to them as she walked rial Thursday for black South of the unit died when a ship through the maternity ward. Africans who died in World transporting them sank in the She did not shake any hands War I. English Channel in 1917. but spoke briefly to some of the 
The stop at Avalon Cemetery War veterans at Thursday's new mothers. in Soweto, southwest of Johan­ceremony said they wanted the The trip is the first by a nesburg, came on the fourth queen to give them money or reigning British monarch since day of the queen's six-day tour other compensation beyond the 1947. 
WIN ACOOL SUMMER SURVIVAL 
KIT FOR HOT DAYS AT THE BEACH. 
Summer is coming. Are you ready for the beach? Stop~ Fazoli's and en!~ to win a Summer Survival Kit. Everything you needfor agreat ttme at the beach zs mthe_ bag. Kit includes Beach bag, Beach towel, Flying disk, Beach ball, S~nglasses, T-shzrt, Beach chair, Co~ 6-pack cooler, Squeeze bottle, Fazolz shugger. 


Real Italian. Real Fast .. Drawing is April14. Need not be present to win. No purchase necessary. 
•coke is aregistered trademark of the Coca-Cola Company 



KEENAN HALL 
in cooperation with Lewis Hall 

sponsors: ' * 
Human Rights and Cultural Diversity Week 
Schedule of Events 

• Friday, March 24 Sr,eaker: Mre. Lole Maeon Sabor Latino 
Keenan Commona
•Both 51dea of the Racial Issue" 10:00pm-12:00 midnight
Keenan Commons 7:00pm 

• Saturday, March 25 
BARANGA games Panel Dlecueelon Keenan Commons "Race Relations at Notre Dame., 6:30pm Keenan Commons 7:00pm 
Short Movie: 11 Lunch Date" Keenan Commona lmmediatly following Discu66lon 

• Sunday, March 26 
Masa with Father Jones Muticultural Dinner from Chicago Keenan Commons Keenan Chapel 5:30pm 4:30pm RSVP only 
OuestiDns call Miguel Berastain at 4-3382 Dr Br~~ther BDnaventure at 1-7353 


Gore presses Arafat to crack down on terrorist actions 
By TERENCE HUNT to Israel will be maintained," Associated Press Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said after talks with Gore. JERUSALEM The vice president will meet 
Four days after a bus ambush with Arafat on Friday in PLO­killed two Jewish settlers in the run town of Jericho. Gore said West Bank, Vice President AI he would urge Arafat "to act Gore said Thursday he would decisively against those who press PLO Chairman Yasser reject the peace he has de­Arafat to crack down on terror­clared." ists. Gore pledged they would In private talks with Gore, not derail Mideast peace talks. Rabin said Arafat would have 
Arriving here on the last stop to take a tough stand on terror­of a five-nation Mideast trip, ism before Israel would agree Gore was roundly praised as a to expanding Palestinian auton­steadfast supporter of Israel. omy in the West Bank, Israel Before a speech at the am­Radio reported. phitheater at Hebrew Univer­Those comments appeared to sity, Gore was awarded an hon­contradict the results of a orary doctorate and described meeting between Arafat and as one of this generation's fore­Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon most political leaders. Peres two weeks ago in which 
Despite the anticipation of July 1 was set as a target date 
U.S. aid cutbacks to Egypt, for reaching an accord for Gore said the Clinton adminis­expanding autonomy. Both tration is committed to main­sides had avoided explicitly set­taining current levels of mili­ting conditions. tary and economic assistance to Arafat told reporters outside Israel, which now totals $3 bil­his Gaza City headquarters: lion a year. "We expect the visit of Vice 
"We hope, and I was assured President AI Gore and the talks by the vice president, that on with bim to help strengthen the part of the administration and consolidate American­the present level of assistance Palestinian relations." 
WHAT•s THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 

SUNDAY. APRIL 2, 1995 1:00 -5:00 PM 

A workshop for couples In a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future Including the possibility of marriage 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: -Stages of relationship -Steps in making healthy decisions -Maintaining long-distance relationships 

THERE IS NO COST FOR THE PROGRAM, BUT ... PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED ... BY THURSDAY, MARCH 30 
Applications are available at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or library Concourse 
Questions? Call 631-5242 
presentations using ntand Persuasion 
ut and design Maker~ Illustrator, nd other software 
printing of digital files 
.. ruse in classrooms from Mac or Dos, available on paper or overhead transparency 
• Full-color or black and white scanning of logos, 
OCR scanning is also available 
• Mounting and laminating 
ROOM 9.~, CCE 
631-86"3 
8:00 ~ 3:00 
Monday -Friday 


--~---~ 





VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, March 24, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Mamging Editor Business Manager Suzann< Fry Joseph Riley 

t>jcws Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ..................... Krista A. Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by th< students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colloge. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of tho majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, !otters and lnsido Columns present the views of the aurhors, and not necessarily those of The Observ<r. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

Ma gro t Obviously, such anaittittxde ing. WVFI is a student radio by stucients your responsibility to communic~e. the types nf' OMUDiP you want to hear. · · 
But itworks both ways. lfWVFJ isteally the then it must attempt to representthe diverse studentbody demands. If this means having a Pnnn•r•n hour, then so be it. 
WVFltypically plays "college music"-..:.up and coming, alternative bands that do not get much air time elsewhere. Just because t193 and WAOR do not play certain groups does not mean that those groups are unworthy of our listening or have any less value as artists. Mter all, mostofwhat is now "mainstream" was once "alternative." Musicians like Pearl Jam. Nirvana, Live and Nine Inch Najls were once college and are now the. darlings of the Billbl)ard charts .. Surely crowd-like PQrtishead. Oas~.·B ther performs .a vital function by pi theSe But dj's Mthe station do mMe than this; They beyond the alternative and mainstream scenes. what students are interested in. 
Enter the student body. WVFI'ssurvey '""'r'"' ... the campus to hear its favonte music on .have expresse«J an interest ln ·~·u·j~WJ;ngsutv~y progr~ 111.~c.isio•ns. feasibilitY o(ari 
Themov{l to FM is to be ~wev~~; With 
have""~ce.ess to the station ..... to Martin's l)r the mall; Thesellm~ta.1~ol11S. . students in a manner tllafmostcampus 
. ..:~%i:J::/~(''(::y;,.J::#t$f 

The Lost America: Appalachia 
Let me tell about a place for help, whether that help be where everyone wants to know in the form of equal rights your name, where they really legislation or welfare checks. are glad you came. People who are angry and dis-
I'm not talking about Panama satisfied with what they have City, Padre, or Cancun. been given. Many of them right-
Let me tell you about fully so. Harrison County Ohio. Harrison However, in many instances, County hosted twelve -Domers people who are at a disadvan­for the tage can first time only see as this past far as their spring Frank hardship.
break, and · They can't 
~~ i:o~~r:~ Cristinzio ~~:~heb;~~~
the fmest in them-people in selves be-the United cause they States. It's 
______:========------can't find it. 
home to a people who have been dealt a losing hand by his­tory. but who are quietly mak­ing the best of it. 
Despite the situation which the people of Appalachia find themselves in, you can't help but have a little of their benevolence and optimistic, traditional values rub off on you. 
The concept of Appalachia is not so much that of a geo­graphic region or ethnic group, but of a shared experience. It is an experience of the coal mines, rugged natural beauty, isolation, rich heritage, and dramatic highs and lows. 
It is an experience of genera­tions of struggle between tradi­tion and modernity. For a little less than a week, we were able to share a little bit of this expe­rience, outsiders though we were. 
As we read the papers and look out at the world around us, we often overlook the peo­ple hidden in the shadows of Appalachia. Today's headlines are full of people who cry out It is often easier to lash out at the world around you for your misfortune rather than look within your world for a solution to your problems. History has shown us our tendency to blame our problems on others, whether those "others" be peo­pie of a different color, race, religion, or background. It is one of humanities least endear­ing qualities. There are plenty of troubles to go around, and plenty of troublemakers to blame for them. Yet not enough solutions. The only place left to look for a solution is within yourself. 
History has dealt the Ap­palachian region and its resi­dents more than their share of low blows. It has certainly given them an opportunity to blame their hardship on others. Despite generations of need and disadvantage, Appalachia continues to find the good in itself, and no matter how bad things get, she can draw on that good, and use it pull her­self through. 
Appalachia represents a spirit which this country could use a little more of. a spirit which America as a whole had, yet has inexplicably lost. The Ap­palachian people are proud. They can laugh at themselves, they can laugh at their hard­ship. They recognize the value of their unique culture. the strength they have gained through endurance. They rely on each other. 
The people of Appalachia taught me something. They taught me that your greatest strength is being able to recog­nize the strengths you do have as well as your weaknesses. The people of Appalachia showed me that in every one of us there is a combination of 
'Despite genera­
tions of need and disadvantage, Appalachia continues to find the good in itself, and no matter how bad things get, she can draw on that good, and use it pull herself through.' 
good points that can be brought together to make us unstop­pable. They showed me that despite what the world deals you, as long as you can find those good points, you can get by. 
Frank Cristinzio is a junior computer science major. He lives in Stanford Hall . 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 


--~------~------~------~a.--------~~ 




VIEWPOINT
Friday, March 24, 1995 page 13 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Hope, temperance must lead way for GLND/SMC solution 
about the Church's, and Notre Dame's, position. This line of thought was popularized by the recent visit of "The New Repub­lic" editor Andrew Sullivan, and has been taken up by many oth­ers. But lest we take this highly contentious claim on the simple authority of some prominent intellectuals, and not see for ourselves the "illogic," I ask the Notre Dame community to con­sider whether or not such a claim can be taken seriously. I do not think it can. ­
To hold and teach that homo­sexual activity is immoral and degrading may be unpopular in some circles, it may be an uncomfortable and highly chal­lenging teaching, it may not even be obviously true, but it is not illogical. And to hold and teach that homosexual activity is sinful, and at the same time to insist on the humanity and dignity of those who are tempt­ed toward that sin, is not illogi­cal but internally coherent, and consistent with whole of Catholic teaching. As such, it is properly speaking universal, and therefore, in an important sense, it is even inclusive. 

Quite obviously the wide­spread campus awareness sur­rounding the administration's treatment of the unofficial cam­pus gay and lesbian group is evidence of a deep concern to get an important matter right. But to address such a signiti­cant issue with the attention that it deserves will require harder work. and greater care, of all involved. I hope that those who truly care about this issue will uphold their responsibility not to be lulled into a false con­tidence by the bold proclama-
Dear Editor: 
As a relative neweomer to the Notre Dame community, l feel obligated to report how shocked I am by the character of thought concerning an important current campus issue. The controversy sur­rounding those students who would organize under the name GLND/SMC has occasioned the persistent expression. especial­ly in the pages of this newspa­per, of arguments and attitudes that I find surprising, even sometimes inexcusable. 
First among these is the ar­gument which attempts to jus­tify the recognition of GLND/SMC by way of the following reasoning: Notre Dame is Catholic, therefore uni­versal, therefore inelusive. The argument concludes, Notre Dame should include GLND/SMC among its registered student organizations. But so stated, the argument fails. The eAtire issue is. in what sense does or does not a school which is committed to the teachings of the Homan Catholic Church have an obligation to aecommo­date a student organization that opposes one of its moral princi­ple. Even if Notre Dame does have such an obligation, that obligation would need to be articulated in a much more detailed and specitic way, for it does not flow from the simple fact of Notre Dame's Catholic charaeter. 
The second cause of surprise is an increasingly prevalent attitude which holds that the administration of this universi­ty, in maintaining the position that it has. is obviously wrong. This attitude manifests itself in many ways. First, by simple assertion; some have elaimed, again even in these pages, that to believe that homosexual activity is immoral. and to refuse recognition to a group whose teachings contradict those of the Roman Catholic Church. is to be motivated by hate and bigotry. With this assertion, proponents of GLND/SMC attempt to claim for themselves all the rhetorical force of those who are opposing not just ignorance or confusion, but manifest evil. Such a ploy cheapens debate on a matter much too compli«ated for this kind of wholesale dismissal. 
The second manifestation of this attitude is the argument that there is something illogical tions of student representative bodies, or distracted by a noisy national letter writing cam­paign shamelessly published by this newspaper. 
But l hope foremost that all involved will uphold their responsibility not to be deceived by false arguments. If all par­ties at Notre Dame are to get this is~ue right, it will not be through sheer political strength, rhetorical deceit, or postured indigence. It will be instead through a combination of prudence, temperance. forti­tude, and justice, guided, of course, by faith, and hope, and charity. Let these virtues first manifest themselves in more careful thinking. 
JOSHUA HOCHSCHILD Graduate Student of Philosophy 


• I AM NOT A POTTED PLANT 

0 
0 


Diversity should includ-e income variation 
I hope you all had a nice Spring Break, tanning yourselves in Aruba, or skiing in Colorado, or whatever. I had the opportunity to spend my Spring Break in beautiful South Bend. An unfortunate collection of due dates required me to forego that trip I was planning on making, and to spend my week in the Law Library. I'm not com­plaining; that's just the way it worked out. 
But it was interesting to notice which things shut down around here, and what stayed open. The Hesburgh Library stays open late! All those ugly orange chairs sit there, empty, without their usual supply of geeks and gos­sipers. The Barber Shop was closed, no reason given. The Travel Agency was open; I have no idea why. Stations of the Cross continue during break, but with fewer of those people carrying the candles around the church. 
But worst of all: the Dining Halls were closed! That Meal Plan I paid all that money for was completely useless (they don't give you credit at the Oak Room!). I survived alright. The trick is to lind cheap foods which don't require cooking or excessive dishwashing. Cereal is key. I also noticed that white bread is really cheap, and it does fill you up. 
That was tine for me. But as I looked around at the other unfortunates around campus last week, l wondered what kept them here. So I asked some of my friends who are Assistant Rectors in the dorms. It turns out (not surprising when I thought about it) that there are some people who just can't afford to go home for Break. There are some people who spend every one of their Fall Breaks, and every one of their Spring Breaks, here at ND. 
And then I began to wonder why the university couldn't just leave one of its dining halls open. Maybe just one side of North. They wouldn't have had to serve the greatest food (not that they ever do). I'll bet leftovers would have been good enough for most of us. But. no, not Notre Dame. The Notre Dame family was out of town. and they locked the door behind it. 
At the college I went to as an under­graduate, with live times fewer stu­dents than this place, one side of one of our dining halls would stay open during break. And it would stay open precisely because the college knew that there were some people who wouldn't be able to go home for some reason. Maybe the reason was tinan­cial, maybe there was too much authority at home, or maybe their home was just too far away to go home and back (l had a friend who needed three or four days to get home in the United Arab Emirates). 


Charles Roth 
Doesn't it seem strange to you that this college, which prides itself on car­ing for its own ("the ND family"), and on instilling in us a concern for the underprivileged. should act in this way? I suppose it shouldn't seem that strange. It involves the college spend­ing money, and when it comes to spending money, Notre Dame may even be cheaper than I am. · 
You can see it in our financial aid, too. Notre Dame's financial aid pro­gram is abysmal in comparison with the best schools in the nation. Last time I looked. Georgetown funded 66 percent of recognized financial need, schools like Williams and Amherst funded 99 percent. and Notre Dame funded 33 percent. For a school with an endowment as large as ours is (is it really over a billion dollars?), you'd think we could give a few more grants and a few less loans. But again, this would involve the university spending money. Not gonna do it. Wouldn't be prudent, at this juncture. 
There is a point, and we're darned near it now, when refusing to spend money isn't prudent, and it isn't wise. Here in the law school. we just dropped in the US News rankings from 20th to 39th in two years. Why? It seems that the reason is mostly tinan­cial. We, too, have poor financial aid 
(i.e. almost none). Moreover, it turns out that the Golden Dome skims off something like a million dollars per year from the law school (remember that next time you criticize us!). It's so stupid: the Administration saves a few pennies in the short term, but will end up spending more in the long run when it decides it wants us to be good again. 
Notre Dame proclaims itself in favor of diversity, and they put together scholarships for minorities, and the school reaches out to minorities through the service projects that so many of us undertake after we gradu­ate, or during "urban plunges." But when it comes to concrete, substantial changes that would allow poorer stu­dents (those who can't get a scholar­ship) to consider Notre Dame -like a real tinancial aid program -the uni­versity passes. 
It seems to me that if poor students had a greater presence on this cam­pus. perhaps we would end up talking about things besides abortion. women priests, and homosexuality. Perhaps we would discuss the serious maldistri­bution of income throughout the world; perhaps we would dis.cuss the way that the West exports its culture, or more usually, its degradation, to the Third World; perhaps we would discuss the slow disintegration of the union move­ment in this country, and what that means for us all. 
Notre Dame needs to take steps to increase our diversity. not just in terms of ethnicity, but in terms of income. We need tinancial aid. It might be diffi­cult to change right away, but I know one way that we could make a start. Keep those dining halls open next time! 
Charles Roth is a second-year law student. 

p;tge 14 The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, March 24,1995 
The 


of the 


By SYLVESTER GORMAN 
Accent Writer 


W
en the sun sinks below the horizon, almost every Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's student of legal drinking age or thereabouts relishes the opportuni­
y to escape campus and hit any one of a number of area bars and clubs. It is a relatively long tradition that has brought satisfaction to students yearning for their favorite libations after a hard day or week in the classroom. 
Not too many years ago there was a bar in town cleverly named The Library. When students were asked by their parents over the telephone what their plans were for the evening, they could honestly say they were going to The Library, and avoid suspicion. This story covered all of the bases. Nowadays, students have to be more creative in explaining their social lives to worried parents. Club DV8 does not sound like a study spot for enthusiastic students, but sociologists would have a field day doing research there or in any of the other distinguished watering holes (emphasis on "hole") near campus. Thus, students should never feel guilty about going out and sacrificing their education for a cheap buzz. One must have the proper perspective, that's all. 
This is a review of ten bars based on atmosphere, music and entertainment, spe­cials/prices, townie quality, bartenders, and student satisfaction. Music and enter­tainment encompasses frequency and quality of bands, jukebox or DJ music, pool tables, dart boards, dancing, etc. Each criterion is factored into a bar's overall score. Careful research has made this guide the most authoritative of its kind, so pay attention (all scores based on a 5 pitcher scale). 
Bridget McGuire's Filling Station 

Bridget's is a hot spot for those students looking for a bar that has decent prices, a college atmosphere, good entertainment, and patrons with the common thread of age. You are not bound to find many townies or graduate students here, so Bridget's is a good place to be yourself and have a good time hanging out with friends. It is one of the more popular spots night after night, and with the recent addition of karaoke on Fridays, Bridget's is usually packed to capacity. This can bring down the atmosphere a bit, as it may take several minutes to reach the bar. Liana Duran blurts, "Bridget's has its moments, but sometimes it is so crowded that it's impossible to sit down, relax and have a drink. Conversation is impossible. Oh yeah-total meat market!" The bartenders are genial, but it can be difficult to attract their attention since there are usually only two on duty. For those who detest smoke, Bridget's is neither the best nor the worst place to go. Bridget's can be loads of fun, but many would agree that it is a stepping stone to other bars. 

The Observer/ Brandon Candura 
The sign outside Bridget's, a familiar sight on the late-night scene, greets revelers. 
Heartland 


Heartland is a unique place. It is big. Its size is enough to distinguish the club with Michiana's largest dance floor from one of the regular hangouts. Donnie and Marie would say that it is a little bit country and a little bit rock 'n roll. On Friday nights, Heartland usually boasts great rock bands such as The House Marys and Oliver Syndrome. Nearly every other night, the theme is country, and once or twice a week line dance lessons are offered. Its two stories of pool tables, darts, a:nd dancing combined with decent but rarely cheap beverage prices guarantees a great time. The townies are on the upper end of the scale, and they don't mind a bunch of college kids stealing their dance floor -there is enough room for every­one. Drawbacks to Heartland are the frequently steep cover charge and the lack of college students. Yet, Scott Polumbo is a big fan of Heartland who thinks, 
"Heartland is cool because people wear boots." To each his own. 


Club 23 


Misconception: Club is not merely an abyss of PLS and Arts and Letters majors smoking cigarettes and discussing how they are going to build a compost in their backyard this summer and lobby the Senate to legalize marijuana. 
Club 23 is smoky and often crowded, but it has a great ambiance and lots of dif­ferent kinds of people. Moe is smooth behind the bar, the music is mellow, and the bands are fun. Bandito's Burritos are a thing of the past, but the fries are very tasty. Townie presence is nil, and there is a pool table and a dart board in the back room. Club is known as the place to go late at night when the other bars close. The overflow from Coaches on Tuesdays keeps it packed until 3:30am. The downstairs section is a great place to chill with some friends if the noise and smoke is overbearing upstairs. Plus, you can talk about saving the whales until your heart's delight. 

Albert's Tavern 

II
411. 

It is probable that most Netre Dame and nearly all St. Mary's students have never been to Albert's. However, this does not take away from its beauty. Located on palatial Lincolnway West, Albert's is not a bar to take your parents to on a foot­ball weekend. It is a hangout for toughs and townies, and though it is not neces­sarily dangerous, it is not exactly the Huddle. The regulars are nice people, but it is simply a different crowd than one would find at Coaches. Albert's has a pool table, darts, and some great grilled sandwiches. It is one of the better places to just kick back and relax with a few buddies and talk about life. It reminds us that there are a lot of hard working people out there who finish their shifts at the air­port or factory when most of us are in bed.J.J. Jennings puts it best when he says, "Albert's is a place to meet good South Bend people. It's a mellow time." 

Club Hat Trixx 

UiIll 

Hat Trixx, formerly DV8, formerly Rhythm and Darts, got a face-lift in the spring of 1994 when ownership changed hands. It is a terrific place to go on Wednesday nights if you are willing to risk the embarrassment of belting out your favorite song on karaoke. Maureen Larsen enjoys singing with her friends because, "Even tone­deaf people can become stars." Some students have become regulars for these nights, and the friendly townies have taken a liking to a few of them. Carol is a favorite behind the bar, for she makes the students feel just as welcome as the locals. Thursday nights are also big due to cheap beverage prices. On the whole, a night out at what used to be DV8s is less expensive than other area filling stations. 

CJ's Pub Inc.· 


CJ's is not an example of a bar that one goes to upon graduating from Bridget's. It is small and has a neighborhood feel, but it always keeps the students in mind. Everyone knows Ricky Joe, Cindy, Limbo and their delicious burgers. CJ's is a relaxing place to watch a ball game and shoot the breeze with a few pals. It has recently been renovated, but the changes have not taken away from its atmos­phere. It is a popular place to take students on their 21st birthdays, either for din­ner or as a fun place to kick off the festivities. It can get overcrowded and stuffy, but its popcorn can make anyone forget about any negative aspects. Margaret Vida comments, "The popcorn is so delicious that I can never get enough!" 

The Observer/ Brandon candura 

CJ's delicious burgers make it even more popular amongst students. 
Friday, March 24, 1995 The Observer•WEEKEND page 15 

l

Coaches I I I 


Coaches is regarded as one of the classiest bars in town. It offers games, big screen televisions for sports fans, good food, and line beverages. It is a place seniors and old juniors enjoy patronizing on Tuesday nights. On Tuesdays there is a beverage special, so the bar is packed until closing time at 1:00am. Like the Linebacker, Coaches caters to an older crowd that has lots of bar experience. On football weekends, alumni and visitors from out of town often make it a point to drop in on Coaches in between touring the campus and going to "The Game of the Week/Century." Cimches is close to campus and near enough to many off-campus apartments that it is easy for students to stroll on over for a good time. Junior Anne Stricherz likes the balanced crowd and atmosphere of Coaches. She says, "I like Coaches because all kinds of people go there. Linebacker has its own crowd, Club has its own crowd, but everyone goes to Coaches." 

Corby's Irish Pub 
'.II'
I 


This popular meeting place is famous for being fea­tured in the movie "Rudy" even though it looked noth­ing like it does now back in the 70's. Corby's has a dual atmosphere because the bar is distinctly split into two sections. The front is where one can sit back and relax at the bar or one of the many tables, whereas the back portion is home to darts, Ms. Pac-man, and three poo.l tables. The jukebox gets pumped up pretty loud, and there is no safe refuge from it, but without yelling to your friend standing 8 inches away, it wouldn't be Corby's. The management is always on top of decorating for the holidays, and specials are fairly frequent. Cover is not a problem unless a band is playing, so a night out at Corby's never gets too expensive. Corby's is one of the few true Notre Dame ll!411i bars. As Jack Fenn puts it: "Rudy was here... 'nuff 
said." ~~~~ 

Linebacker Lounge 


"The Backer" is the late-night bar for students. No one minds that they play the same exact songs in the same exact order every night. By the time one reaches the Backer, it really does not matter. Free beverage coupons often go unused because they are not necessary for many patrons. Close dancing and familiar music appeases nearly everyone. The Linebacker can get so crowded that it might not be fun for the drivers, but the full-body contact is all part of the charm. One Morrissey resident claims, "The Backer makes me fart!" A friend from Lyons explains that this phenomenon is due to "all of that vertical exercise." What she means by this statement is anyone's guess, but it is just another example of the wild ambiance that can be enjoyed on almost any given night at the Backer. 

Alumni/Senior Club 


The beauty of Senior Bar is that it is on campus. There is no need to deal with the hassle of finding designated dri­vers or cabs, and its location ensures students that they will see familiar faces if they go there. It is very spacious, the dance floor is large, there is plenty of entertainment, and beverage specials abound. Senior Bar is capable of getting fabulous live entertainment such as The Freddy Jones Band, Sky Blue, and most of the upstart campus bands. A nice thing about the help is that the bartenders are students, so visitors are more likely to be patient when the lines get long. On big nights, the dance floor can get uncomfortably packed, but people usually are not as forgiving about the traffic as they are at the Backer because it is not expected. Julie Paul does not have a very concrete view of Senior Bar. She says, "It's like one big romper room with alcohol...except sometimes I like it." ;1 



Tl1[ \JiNCl'OTTLL5 
I
By CHRISTIAN STEIN bons, red, white and blue I It's who to campaign to Music Critic brainwash you I You really think we want something in the sand I And you'll probably lit right into her plan." n the late 1980's, the introduction of the Ska sound The song is dominated with political references through was widely accepted. This new sound combined ele­direct and truthful lyrics. This honesty makes ments of the popular Manchester sound, bands like "Government" one of the most enjoyable and meaningful James and The Charlatans UK, with elements of Reggae songs on the album. and Hock and Roll. In the title track "Sober," the truth is further 
Having an instant appeal with the college music scene revealed. Not only is the music clean and enjoyable but 
worldwide, many small time college bands integrated so are the lyrics. This song reveals The Winebottles' 
this new sound into their repertoire successfully. One of personal view on relationships. "I need somebody who · 
the most notable bands that has had such success is The can get me high I Without sticking a marijuana joint in 
Samples. This success is nowhere more apparent than my mouth I I need someone who won't say good bye." 
it is here at Notre Dame. Later in the album, the pace slows down significantly 
Around the same time that The Samples were gaining with a passionate ballad that is complete with keyboards 
their fame, another band, The Winebottles, were re­and quiet drums. "Little Girl," along with the two songs 
leasing their CD Sober. Incorporating a sound similar to that follow it, provides a break from the fast paced songs 
T-he Samples, Sober makes for a very enjoyable listen that precede them. This rest. however, is short lived as 
and has instant appeal. It mixes upbeat melodies and the speed again increases through the completion of the 
fast paced rhythms with great lyrics and harmonies. album. 
Although it does at times appear too consistent and The final five songs are different from the rest of the 
lacking in musical variation, The Winebottles have found album, not musically, but lyrically, as the band success­
a sound that is comfortable to them and has brought fully attempts to have some fun. Lighthearted lyrics in 
them success. What Sober lacks in experimentation, it songs like "Fish Story" and "Marijuana" show the ver­
definitely makes up for both musically and lyrically. satility of the band and at the same time their ability to 
The CD opens with the track "Yellow," a medium keep consistent with their sound to produce great music. 
paced acoustic reggae rendition that is complete with Sober is a fantastic album with instant appeal and a 
upbeat lyrics and great harmonies. The pace of the CD sound that becomes more and more enjoyable with each 
increases with the second song "Breathe." This song time to which it is listened. The Winebottles provide a .. 
opens with quick strumming on electric guitars and is nice change from the hard, distorted guitars and loud 
accompanied with an incredibly fast drum beat. This drums which normally grace the college radio play lists 
tempo never lets up even when the singing is inter­of the 1990's and the now mainstream Alternative 
rupted by a great guitar solo -complete with crybaby sound. 
ell'ect. If you went to see The Samples when they came to 
The fifth song, "Government," slows the pace slightly; Stepan last year, or even if you just enjoy their brand of 
here the song writing ability of The Winebottles can be music, you will definitely love The Winebottles. Sober is 
truly appreciated. With popish spunk and Manchester­a great album well worth buying, and it appears that the 
like vocals, the band belts out verses like "Yellow rib-live show tonight in the LaFortune Ballroom will not be 
a disappointment. 

~---~-------------~­
1 
I page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 24, 1995 
I I I I I I I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
! 


.. 
Wallace secures win Marshall shines as Huskies out 
By JIM O'CONNELL 31-minute performance that offset a 

run Terrapins and Smith 99-89 
Associated Press tremendous second half by 
Georgetown freshman Allen Iverson, By ROB GLOSTER sions, had 22 points and a game-high 14 BIRMINGHAM, Ala. who scored all but three of his 24 Associated Press rebounds despite foul trouble. Johnny 
Rasheed Wallace wanted to make sure he didn't go home. 
He did that with a 20-point second half and finished with 22 points, 12 rebounds and six blocked shots as sec­ond-seeded North Carolina advanced to the Southeast Regional final with a 74-64 victory over sixth-seeded Georgetown on Thursday night. 
The Tar Heels' sophomore center took over after halftime and he had just one thought in mind as he did. 
"The bottom line was I thought to myself as I was coming out for the second half that I didn't want to go home," he said. 

"So I just worked on my defense -and our outside game had opened things up for me inside." North Carolina (27 -5) will play the winner of Thursday night's Kentucky­Arizona State game on Saturday, with that winner advancing to the Final Four in Seattle. And the chance for coach Dean Smith to make a 10th trip to the Final Four came because Wallace, who was limited to 46 minutes in the first two games of the tournament by a sprained left ankle, dominated in a 
points after halftime. 

North Carolina, which was last in the round of eight two years ago when it won the national championship, could never put away the sixth-seeded Hoyas (21-10), who dug themselves a hole with poor shooting in the first half and no one was worse than Iverson, who missed all six of his shots. 
"Iverson came to play in the second half and the key for us was that in the beginning of the second of half we really wanted to take the ball to the basket," Smith said. 
In the first half, North Carolina did most of its damage from the outside, making six of 16 3-point attempts while the Hoyas were shooting just 27 percent from the field (10-for-37) as the Tar Heels took a 35-26 halftime lead. 
"Rasheed definitely hurt us inside and we were so conscious of him early," Georgetown coach John Thompson said. "But they hit those 3s and then we had to go and stretch the defense and they were able to throw the ball over the top. 
OAKLAND, Calif. 

The game was supposed to feature the balanced team play of Connecticut against the individual brilliance of Maryland's All­American center, Joe Smith. 
It turned into a celebration of Donny Marshall, who had 27 points in a chest­bumping, fist-pumping display that led the Huskies to a 99-89 win Thursday night over the Terrapins to set up a West Regional final against No. 1 UCLA. 
Marshall, who mixed feathery 3-pointers with bruising layups off offensive rebounds as he came within one point of his career high, set the emotional tone for the Huskies (28-4) by diving for loose balls and jumping over the press table trying to save a ball. 
"Danny didn't score easy. Danny worked hard for his points," Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said. "Danny's a great shoot­er, but for Connecticut to be good, he has to go inside a lot." 
Marshall hit all three of his 3-point attempts, ignoring a cut near his eye that sent blood down the right side of his face in the first half. 
Smith, battered under the boards by as many as three Huskies on many posses-Rhodes also had 22 for Maryland (26-8). 
"We made Joe Smith shoot some tough shots," Marshall said. 
Smith, a sophomore, said "I don't know right now" when asked whether he'll soon turn pro. Maryland coach Gary Williams also avoided the question, responding with a annoyed look that "we'll talk about other things later on." 
Though Marshall was clearly the star, the Huskies displayed the team balance that has become their trademark. Ray Allen added 18 points and 11 rebounds, Knight had 15 points and Doron Sheffer and Eric Hayward each added 12 points. 
Connecticut led comfortably for most of the game, until a late surge pulled Maryland within nine points with 3:10 left. But Travis Knight had a dunk, a couple of free throws and another dunk to finish off the Terrapins. 
On Saturday, the Huskies will face UCLA for a trip to the Final Four. The B.;uins routed Mississippi State 86-67 in the earli­er West semifinal. 
Connecticut never trailed. The Huskies built a 19-point lead with 12:20 left in the game, and the Terrapins only got the mar­gin under double digits once after that. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 


Classifieds 

NOTICES  FOUND WOMAN'S RING IN DBRT. SEC­OND FLOOR. CALL 2954  REWARDING SUMMER JOB ­Orlando, FL -residential camp serv­ing developmentally disabled hiring  FOR SALE  *** SUB presents *** the  *TOP TEN QUOTES FROM THE GIANT CHOCOLATE MONSTER* 1) Later, Later, Later!!  
counselors 18+. Live and work on  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  HILARIOUS  2) Monto-something  
DO EUROPE  POSTED: $ 250.00 Reward  beautiful, lakefront preserve. Salary  at $85,900. First floor location.  INSPIRATIONAL  3) Saddle-up Angela  
$229 anytime!  For the retrieval or info leading to  plus room, board & extras. 6/11­ Finished basement with full lavato­ KEVIN HUGHES,  4) Spore of the devil  
** FREE Brochure**  the retrieval of my stolen mountain  8/18. Call407-889-8088 for applica­ ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  the World's Funniest Advisor on  5) We're eating your cousin.  
Also cheap fares worldwide  bike. Brand: Cadex Alm-1,  tion.  ground level. Lease back to owner  LIFE, LOVE, and LAUGHTER for  6) Slumber Party in the van  
AIRHITCH 1-800-326-2009 Sexual Assault Awareness Week Coming Soon! Bridget's -Open 8:00-3:00am  18", Front suspension Color: metalic silver and wine­berry red. -Do the right thing, Please !II No questions asked. Call Brian 234-4322 WANTED  DIRECT CONTACT STAFF responsible to provide individual training to developmentally disabled children and adults. High school diploma or G.E.D. required. Training provided. Day, evening &  through May, 1995. Call (616)946-0700. Canon AE1 cameras and equip­ment. Two cameras, lenes, flashes, and ACC. 232.7591 CALL AFTER 5PM.  Relationships in the '90s @ 7:30p.m., Sat. March 25 @ The Library Auditorium Bring a date and it's FREEl! "His subject is sex, his message is love, and his tool is laughter!"  7) Do you exercise regularly? 8) 2-6-9-Are ya' mad? 9) Some idiots made a pyramid in the middle of Epcot. 1 0) Whatever... Whatever. .. Whatever Thanks again Camp Counselor!!  l  
Thurs -$2 night  weekend shifts. Hourly wage and  BOUND TO FORGIVE: A  
Fri -Post St. Pat's Party  COUNSELORS: CAMP EMER­ benefits. Contact Tonya, 289-0385  Pilgrimage of a Beirut Hostage to  HAPPY, HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY,  
Open at5:00  SON, coed Mass. Swimming, ten­ at LOGAN. E.O.E. M/F  2-0akhill Condos.  Reconciliation  JOE LOVECHIO  
Shady Elaine Band  nis, baseball, basketball, soccer,  3-levels w/lower walkout, 3 BAS,  A lecture by Father Martin Janco  
Sat -Specials  sailing, windsurfing, waterskiing,  3 Baths-$99,900  sponsored by Cavanaugh Hall  SABOR LATINO  
Little Milton Band  arts/crafts, theatre, woodworking,  WANTED: former wrestlers to help  2 Brs, 2 Baths, spiral staircase  Sunday March 26 7pm at the  
rocketry, archery, judo, yearbook,  coach a kid's freestyle wrestling  & garage -$78,500  Hesburgh Auditorium -Reception to  Saturday, March 25  
photography, video, radio, comput­ program. Ages 5 & up. 2  Each unit includes: fireplace,  follow!  10:30 pm, Club 23  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  er, MORE! Super kids, great food,  nights/week, 6-8 pm. Call Tom  appliances, pool & clubhouse  
Are you going to read those things  friendly, fun! NO general coun­ Dolly at 255-0137.  Coldwell Banker-277-8000  There will be an ON CAMPUS sup­ SABOR LATINO  
again? I think not. 2323-2342  selors. 800-STAFF95  Ruth Ann Smith-288-887  port group for people who are deal­ 
Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard  ing with the issue of HOMOSEXU­ !!!!!!  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ Typist needed. 30 pgs. Big $$$.  ALITY on Thursday night at 7:30  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ Seasonal & full-time employment  x 4574 Susan  LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER I  pm. For more information call287­ HAPPY 21st BDAY DAVE MEIS!  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  available at National Parks, Forests  After 3 kids, I lost 23 lbs., went from  6665. This is a great place to dis­ 
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits &  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­ size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, w/o  cuss coming out to family, friends.  TO IOWA NYW 375,  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­ bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  MENT! EARN THOUSANDS THIS  diets/drugs/exercise. All-natural  and to listen to other gay people  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­ N55842  SUMMER IN CANNERIES,  products, easy, guaranteed! Kelly  who are dealing with the same  HOW ABOUT DINNER? GIVE ME  
NEE, 219-773-2034.  PROCESSORS, ETC.  1-800-209-2150  issues. Remember Smile and Be  A NUMBER.  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ MALE/FEMALE.  Proud I  
KEYBOARD CREATIONS WORD  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  ROOM/BOARD/TRAVEL OFTEN  -THE WHITE CAR  
PROCESSING SERVICES/  on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ PROVIDED! GUIDE. GUARAN­ BIKE, APPLE 2C COMPUTER &  DO YOU HAVE ANY OLD EYE­ 
7 DAYS A WEEK/CALL 277-8518  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398  DRYER.272-6306  GLASSES?  IF YOU SMOKE CAMEL CIGA­ 
Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.).  ext A1082  RETIES, CALL  
FRANKENSTEIN  Seasonal and full-time employment  PLEASE BRING THEM TO THE  2954  
Fri. &Sat.  available. No experience neces­ AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  90 Toyota Corolla SR5 50KMi  LAFORTUNE INFO DESK SATUR­ 
Cushing Auditorium  sary. For more information cal 1­ BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL  5-spd $6450 234-4113  DAY 1-5pm  #*#•#*#•#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#*#•#*#*#*#  
8/10:30  206-634-0468 ext.C55844  (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  Air Force ROTC  
ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO  THEY WILL BE SENT TO LESS  DANCE-A-THON  
WORD PROCESSING, TAXES,  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  EXPER. NEG. GUIDE. (919)929­ For Sale -Duplexes 1 0 min. from  FORTUNATE PEOPLE IN HON­ Saturday, March 25  
GIFTS. 256-6657  OPPORTUNITY.  4398 ext. C1082.  Notre Dame. 2 bedroom & 3 avail­ DURAS VIA TWO  9pmto3am  
ILOST & FOUND I  Up to 10 weeks, good pay. Vacation relief cook at a private retirement villa serving under 40  FOR RENT  able. Priced to sell. 272-8555 am 272-9716 pm  OPTOMETRISTS FROM FORT WAYNE  in the Architecture Building Bring your dancing shoes proceeds to benefit  
men in a lodge type setting. Must  !!!PLEASE!!!  Habitat for Humanities  
LOST on FRI 3/1 0 HEART-SHAPED silver RING Jade  be able to follow a set menu, set-up & break down a limited buffet line.  NEED Fm to share 4bdrm home next sc yr WALK TO CLASS 289­ PERSONAL  Tour's Top Ten Quotes  #*#*#•#*#*#*#•#*#•#*#*#•#*#*#*#*#  
in middle between North Dining Hall  Starting mid-May ending before Fall  9420  10.Ten drinks-5 men-1 stairweii-Oh  Kiddo,  
and Center for Social Concerns in  school session. Send short resume  000 The Copy Shop 000  what a night!  Have fun road tripping, watch out  
morning! FAMILY HEIRLOOM!  listing your qualifications to:  MOVE OCI180/mo w/3 fern  LaFortune Student Center  9.Too bad there aren't any more  for them ticks and tickets.  
REWARD!!! Call Rana x1373.  Summer Cook  @ Turtle Creek,  WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  cool girls in the band  -An lllinios Farmer  
P.O. Box N  summer/95-96 273-6437  & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR  8.Stairwell, Elevator, Hallway,  
LOST: Black leather shoulder bag  Notre Dame, IN 46556  • CONVENIENCE!!!  Bathroom ... nuff said  T­ 
in NOH. Bag unimportant contents  ATIN: Jim Newberry.  HOMES FOR RENT  Phone 631-COPY  7.Dougie!!!(Or is it DougE?)  Could I have another pop-tart?  
necessary to sustain life at ND. If  NEAR CAMPUS  6.F-You! I'm Leaving!  
found please contact Rachel  Project Software Engineer  232-2595  5.That one is ours!  
~4093.  Leading software developer in  ABC'S & LULLABIES -Hugs, kiss­ 4.We were in the statrwell and the  WSND is looking for radio  
Columbus, Ohio seeks software  2 BDRM AVAIL. NOW $295 MO. 3  es and endless love await a white  security guard found us...it seemed  announcers for this summer. If you  
!IIII!!!!II!!!!I!II!FOUND!!I!I!I!IIIIIIIII!I!!!!  engineer with BSCE degree or  BDRM. NEXT FALL, NEAR CAM­ newborn. Loving couple financially  like the logical thing to do!  are interested, please call 1-7342  
Calculator in computer cluster.  higher. Engineer to develop in  PUS.272-6306  secure will provide a happy family  3.You did WHAT? And his room­ and ask for Susan.  
Probably lost early in semester.  Windows/Windows NT environment  life, finest education and a beautiful  mates were WHERE??  
Call x0827 to identify type and  using knowledge of Visual Design  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­ home filled with warmth and securi­ 2.0h God, the weasel's back and  
location and to claim.  Tools and Visual  HOOD FURNISHED HOMES  ty. Med/legal expenses paid. Call  he brought friends  Happy belated birthday to me  
C++. Experience with Client/Server  NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  Debbie & Vic at 1-800-842-6648.  1.Talk to the hand!  Happy belated birthday to me  
>>>>>>>>>LOST<<<<<<<<<<<  architecture, distributed database  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8  
Red paisley J.G. Hook umbrella  applications and project manage­ STUDENTS 2773097  I need 4 tickets for graduation.  
last semester from first floor  ment a plus. Full time position with  Dear Shuba,  Can anyone help?  I need grad tickets. My grandma  
Cavanaugh. It's very important to  benefits. Please mail resume with  RENT FROM US for SUMMER!  Silly! Can't wait for tomorrow.  CALL GREGG 273-2871  and aunts and uncles are all flying  
me, SO PLEASE RETURN IT!  salary requirement to ScanDala  BIG 2br apt w/ wash/dry CLOSE to  Love you!  in from New York expecting to see  
Call x1374. I'll come pick it up if  Systems Mail Stop 4400 4420  ND! call 273-0182 Brenda, Sarah,  -Wubbs  How are you going to hide it at the  me graduate. If you can help, call  
necessary, no questions asked.  Tuller Road Dublin, Ohio 43017  Julie  togo dance L T?  Paul at 634-3425.  

---~~---~-­

• WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish look to improve against Kentucky, Tennessee 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
While most of the people on campus have returned from their travels to remain with the golden dome for the duration, the Notre Dame women's tennis team takes to the road again this weekend as they travel south to Tennessee on Saturday and Kentucky on Sunday. 
The no. 22 Irish will be look­ing to improve its 8-7 dual match record after dropping its last match to no. 7 Arizona State last weekend in an 8-1 loss. 
Although the record might not look overly impressive on paper, six of those eight victo­ries and live of the seven losses 


The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for: 
Accent Writers Accent Music Critics Accent Literary Critics Accent Copy Editors Assistant Accent Editors 
Please submit a one page statement ofintent to Krista in 314 LaFortune by 2 p. m.March 26th. Call 631-4540 for more information. 
have been to top-thirty teams, including a spring break victory over eleventh ranked Pepperdine. 
"Our lowest loss this season has been to the no. 16 team, so we are very pleased with our performance," said head coach Jay Louderback. 
"We tell the girls during the recruiting process that we are going to play the best schedule we can, and we definitely have one of the toughest." 
No doubt exists that the Irish can compete with the best of them. Juniors Wendy Crabtree and Holyn Lord have combined at no. 1 and no. 2 singles re­spectively to produce a 18-12 record between the two. Their consistency throughout the sea­son has led the Irish and will most likely continue to lead them to their hopeful final des­tination of the NCAA's. 
"Wendy and Holyn have won a lot of matches for us this year," said Louderback. 
"There is a lot of pressure on them at each match because they play some of the top play­ers in the country, but they both play with a lot of confi­dence." 
The team has also received a 
NEEDAJOB 
that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 0 As a KidKare registry staff member, you'd be "on call" to fill staffing assignments for area families in need ofchild care services. 0 Evening or daytime, you accept assignments that meet your schedule! 0 Flexible hours. Great pay. 
Call 273-2273 
to find out more! 
Memorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
strong contribution from its captain and only senior Laura Schwab. Schwab plays no. 3 singles for the Irish, but her greatest contribution has come through her play in doubles ac­tion. 
"Laura has done a good job for us this season especially in doubles," said Louderback. 
"At the beginning of the sea­son we were worried about the no. 2 doubles spot, but Laura and freshman Kelly Olson have really come through for us." 
Looking ahead to the week­end, Louderback expects Tennessee and Kentucky to be nothing short of the caliber they have seen thus far. 
Both teams, like the Irish, are looking to qualify for the NCAA's at the end of the sea­son. 
"Kentucky is a littl~ unpre­dictable because of injuries, but if their whole roster is healthy it should be a tough match." 
Tennessee is a young, but dangerously talented team, and looks to challenge the Irish record. 
"Two of the three top Tennessee players are fresh­men, but they are very tal­ented," said Louderback. 
"Both matches this weekend are big matches for us." 
Two victories this weekend would definitely give the Irish a step in the right direction to­ward their goal of the NCAA's, but the team is only taking it one step at a time. 


The 1996Yearbook is now taking applications for the following paid positions: 
• Photography Editor 
•Seniors Editor 
•
Academics Editor •Sports Editor 

•Campus 
Life Editor • Year in Review Editor 

•Clubs 
Editor • Photographers 


Applications are available at the LaFortune Information Desk and should be returned to the Student 
.... 

Activities office (315 LaFortune) by April7. Any questions, please call the Dome office at 631-7524. 
• NCAA TOURNAMENT • SAINT MARY'S SOFTBAlL 
Wildcats claw past Sun Devils 97-73 
r-
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. 

Inside and outside, from one end of the court to the other. It doesn't matter what phase of the game you're talking about, Kentucky is a team with no ap­parent weakness. 
The Wildcats continued their reign of destruction through the NCAA tournament, whip­ping Arizona State 97-73 in the Southeast Regional semifinals Thursday night for their third straight postseason rout. 
Even coach Rick Pitino is stumped when asked to pin­point the reason for Kentucky's success. 
-
"This is an outstanding ball­club," he said, stating the obvi­ous. "It's tough to single out any one guy. But we've still not accomplished all of our goals. If we can win three more games, we'll go down in history." 
The Wildcats (28-4), who have won 11 in a row overall and their three tourney games by an average margin of nearly 31 points, dominated Arizona State (24-9) in every phase to set up a much-anticipated showdown with second-seed North Carolina in the regional finals Saturday. 
"It's a great match-up for the media and the fans, but it doesn't matter what name is on 

By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 24, 1995 
Belles crash and recover 
the jersey," forward Mark Pope said. "We're playing for our lives right now. Maybe in 20 years, we can look back on that game with some pride, but for now we've got serious busi­ness." 
Led by Tony Delk, who scored 26 points, the Wildcats dis­played their trademark touch from the outside, swishing 3­pointers from all over the court. They rocked the rim with several thunderous dunks. They were relentless at the defensive end, sagging on Arizona State star Mario Bennett every time he touched the ball. And finally. their deep bench left the Sun Devils huff­ing and puffing, their legs so heavy they could barely move. 
"Every time we had a break­down of any kind or any kind of mistake, they made us pay for it," Arizona State coach Bill Frieder said. 
Kentucky led from start to finish and pulled away with a 12-0 run to start the second half, building a 54-36 lead. Actually, the spurt began on the final shot of the first half, when Rodrick Rhodes hit a 3­pointer at the buzzer, answer­ing Jeremy Veal's 3-pointer a few seconds earlier. 
Rhodes never looked back, trotting off tQ the locker room after his arching shot swished the net. 


By LORI GADDIS 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team crashed open their season Tuesday with a double-header against Wheaton. Although the Belles lost the first game 10-2, they rallied with a comeback and a star studded perfor­mance to beat Wheaton in the second game 10-2. 
After returning from spring training in Florida with a win­ning record of 5 and 3. the Belles are ready to dive into a hectic and demanding season. 
Because the Belles lost three starters this year, they have had to make several changes in the line-up. Senior Seanne Patrick, the third baseman for the Belles, has now been spending time in the outfield along with junior Laura Richter, the Belles first base­man. Coach Maggie Killian is pleased with the team's enthu­siasm and willingness to adjust to these changes. 
"I hope that through regular­ly adjusting the lineup we can find the right combination that will allow us to be successful. We haven't yet settled into a specific batting order which will produce runs," Killian said. 
Killian also feels that the team's improvement will result from cutting down on the num­ber of errors that the team pro­duces per game. 
The Belles chance to improve is this Saturday in another dou­ble-header against Concordia. 
"After playing great in Hilton Head, we came back a little flat against Wheaton. The first game was a little disappointing, but we're hoping to bounce back starting with Concordia." 
The Belles defeated Concordia in both games last year and are hoping to do the same on Saturday. 


World's Funniest Comedian I Sex Therapist 
Talks About Life, Love and for Relationships in the 90's 
STUDENT UNION BOAill 

7:30PM@ the Library Auditorium 

OM4LLEYAWARD 
1995 UNDERGRAD PROFESSOR OFfflE ffAR AWARD 
HAVE YOU EVER HAD mATPROFESSOR mAT YOUU NEVER FORGFT; THAT PROFESSOR mATMADE YOU WANT TO IEARNl 
Nomination forms are now available for the 1995 O'Malley Award recognizing greatness in undergraduate education. The winning professor receives an award of $1000! 
Forms are available in the Student Government 
Office, 2nd floor of LaFortune. All forms are due 
..... 
• Ass0 Wednesday, March 29th. 
S'~@~
~ ~· Questions? Call Thad at 631-6283. 
<i~

<( ::J 
~$~ 

SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT AND THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 

Friday, March 24, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• SOFTBALl 
Murray's 7th inning heroics lead Irish to victory 
Br NEIL ZENDER double header. And in game pitcher's duel between Sports Writer two, Notre Dame went from tin­Battersby and Ohio State's seltown to Tehran in a 3-0 loss. Genice Turley going into the 
Articulate Hollywood screen­
In game one, Irish starter Joy bottom of the seventh when the writer (Rocky ) and actor Battersby threw a two-hit Irish saw the end of the rain­Sylvester Stallone couldn't have dandy. Despite getting herself bow. Katie Marten led off with written a better start ro·r the into jams in the fourth and fifth a single. first baseman Liz Notre Dame softball team's innings with walks and wild Perkins' one out single moved home opener against Ohio pitches. Battersby kept her cool Marten to second. Sara Hayes'State. Nothing outside of Knute and survived without any dam­grounder advanced Marten to 
Rockne pinch-hitting could 
age. third, but Perkins was forced have been more dramatic than 
"Joy threw a great ballgame," out at second. Meghan Murray's two-out game 
Coach Liz Miller said. "She With two down, Murray came winning single in the bottom of worked batters very well, and to the plate and in a full count, the seventh to give the No. 23 seemed to be getting more and singled home Marten with the 
Irish a 1-0 win. Unfortunately. more confident." winning run. the two clubs were playing a The game was a scoreless Then game two started, and 

THE END OF AN ERA: 


LAST PIZZA DINNER 
at 

BRUNo•s 
2610 Prairie Avenue 

SUNDAY, MARCH 26 -5:30 PM 
ALL FORMER PANGBORN RESIDENTS INVITED 
$3.00 Door Donation 

FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT: FR. AL 631-5955 
the Irish were no longer in throw to first was high, and Hollywood. Irish hitters strug­KoHen scored the only run Ohio gled in the first game, picking State needed. The Buckeyes up five hits. Only seven balls then added a run in the second, were hit out of the infield. The and another in the third. weak hitting continued in the Brandenburger was relieved second game, and this time by freshman Kelly Nichols. Notre Dame didn't get away Both pitched relatively well, but with it. They had two base hits, suffered from fielding that was and only two balls were hit out subpar for a stellar Irish defen­of the infield. The result was a sive team that entered the 3-0 Ohio State victory. game with only nine errors in 
"We lost all aggressiveness," 18 games, and an amazing . 982 Coach Miller said. "We were fielding percentage. But in the checking swings and just nub­second game they were bing the ball. We haven't hit charged with a pair of errors. for four games now. Up until Tomorrow, the Irish will be Hawaii (last week), we had working on their hitting. Coach been very aggressive." Miller promises each batter will 
The Buckeyes chased Irish take at least 250 cuts. Despite starter Kara Brandenburger the recent hitting slump, the from the game in the middle of Irish are 13-7, the best start in 
-

the second inning. Ohio State's program's history. Notre Dame Candance Kollen started the may be worried about its bat­game with a double. Ginger ting slump. But the opposition Bonnell then hit a sharp has got to be a lot more wor­grounder to Murray, but the ried. 


JUNKOR§ 

Chicago BlackHawks vs. St. Louis Blues Wed. March 29th Bus Leaves CCE at 5 p.m. Tickets Available at The LaFortune Info Desk $20 
THE NEW SMASH HIT FROM THE ACCLAIMED DIRECTOR OF 
THE WEDDING BANQUET 
"BRACE YOURSELF FOR A VISUAL ORGY! 
A delicious stew of food and sex!" 
-Edward Guthmann, SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE 

''WONDERFULLY SEDUCTIVE! 
Irresistible. An almost edible treat." 
-Janet Maslin, THE NEW YORK TIMES 

"lt. ***-!DEliCIOUS! 
A sure-fire Oscar nominee." 
-Michael Medved, THE NEW YORK POST 

A comedy to arouse your appetite. DOL=.,":[ 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 

I 
I I I 
I 
I •tRACK#"" 
I .... rishtrac 
l 
t 
-
/a\travelmore 
'S:i!l__Carlson Travel Network 

n..­
Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 
*Airfares Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. Low airfares to Europe. 
*Rail Passes Rail Passes issued in our office! No ·service fee! Timetables, prices, tickets available! 
*Car Rentals Discounted car rentals! Available in all European Countries! 
*Experience Over 20 years experience working with Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students and faculty travelling to Europe. 
We know Europe-let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus ­(219) 271-4880 

page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, March 24, 1995 
Moss involved in racial fight 
By MIKE NORBUT classroom desk. Moss jumped cruit and the blue-chip athlete Spons Editor into the brawl, which began that gave Notre Dame the best between Johnson and the third recruiting class in the nation. Notre Dame football recruit student in a hallway, before He is expected to be given an 
Randy Moss was involved in a teachers broke it up. opportunity to start at the re­racially motivated fight that left "I haven't looked at the desk ceiver spot opposite junior one student of DuPont (W. Va.) yet, but apparently there is Derrick Mayes next year. 
High School hospitalized some racial slur written on it," Calls to Moss' home were not Thursday, according to a sher­DuPont High School principal answered Thursday evening,iffs deputy's report. Patrick Law said. "We have no while the police declined to Moss, 18, of Belle and anoth­
idea whether this young man provide further details of the er black student fought with a (Johnson) was involved in writ­incident. 
white student, 17-year old Roy ing it. Because it involved one While it was not the first scuf­Johnson of Pond Gap. Johnson white student and two black fle that has erupted at DuPont is currently in serious condition students, it became rather High School involving the star 
in the intensive care unit at the charged." athlete, it was definitely the Charleston Area Medical Both the police and high most heated fight faculty mem­Center. school officials are investigating bers have seen in some time. Kanawha County Sheriff's the matter. "I don't comment on the Department authorities refused Moss, a 6-5. 205-pound wide character of my students," Law to release the name of the third receiver was a Parade High continued. "But it's been a student involved. School All-American this year number of years since we've No charges were filed. as well as West Virginia's anything like this." The fight evidently started Player of the Year. He was the The Charleston Gazette con­over a racial slur written on a nation's most highly rated re-tributed to this report. 
Attention Juniors interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Tuesday, March 28, 1995 
6:30 p.m. 
101 Law School 

Ifyou are unable to aaend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
March 27 & 28 Ticket sales for the general public begin•March 29 Tickets on sale at O'Laughlin Box Office x4625 
53.00 SMCIND Studen...: $4.00 SMCINO Facuhy/Statt'; $6.00 S"tllOI" ClUYAn•: $8.00 <'".c...,rnl Po.obll" 
Friday, March 24, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• SAINT MARY'S TRACK • SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 
Belles unable to handle
Outdoor season looks promising 
-~­

By KELLY MEDLIN 
Spons Writer 
The Saint Mary's track team is starting off with a bang, as they come out of a successful indoor season and head into what hopes to be an even more promising outdoor season. 
As coaeh Larry Szczeehowski and assistant coach Dustin Gill emphasize, "through much hard work and dedication we saw vast improvement in our indoor season and we are anx­iously anticipating the begin­ning of the outdoor season." 
The athletes also express pos­itive attitudes as sophomore 
Erin Mellifont states, " We've all set goals for ourselves and it we keep working as hard as we have been, then there is no doubt in my mind that we will have a rewarding season." 
At Wabash Invitational on Saturday the team covers all the bases having participants in sprinting, distance, relay, and field events. 
Running in the lOOm and 200m races are junior Jill Jusick, sophomores Courtenay Powers and Desiree Leak, and 

Attention Graduates 
If you are looking for a Teachin~ Service Pro~ram to offer you ... A year to remember and an experience that you will never forget in New York, come to the Center for Social Concerns to meet Sr. Deanna Sabetta April 3, 9:00am to 5:00pm to ask questions about teaching in New York City 

OUR INNER CITY TEENAGERS NEED YOU! Please call 212,371,1000 ex 2803 for an appointment to talk to Mary Ann Romer who will give you more information. 
freshman Kristin Donahue. 
DePauw in opener, lose 8-1 
Freshmen Lori Mrowka and 
By CAROLINE BLUM DePauw has a great team, she
Becky Jacobs run the 800m 
Saint Mary's Spons Editor still thinks the Belles could 
race, along with Mellifont, who 
have played better. 

will be joined in the 1500m 
Even great athletes such as "DePauw played a great
race by Lauren Winterlield and 
Michael Jordan are not able to 
match, and they deserved to

Beth Phalen. In the longest of 
begin their seasons with flaw­
win. However, I think that the

the distance races, the 3000m, 
less performances. So reflects 
Belles had a lot of opportunities 

Michelle Wenner, Mary 
the Saint Mary's tennis team in 
to score and set that they didn't 

Schroeder, Kerry Sullivan, and 
their debut performance at 
capitalize," said Cromer. 

Catherine Bohan will all repre­
Depauw on Tuesday. DePauw, 
Andrea Ayres, a senior, was

sent Saint Mary's. 
who had just returned from 
the only victorious member of

In the 4x100m relay, Saint 
their win over nationally the team Tuesday. After losing 
Mary's will have two teams. 
ranked Denison, beat the Belles 
the first set 6-1, Ayres fought 

There will be four partici­
8-1. 
hard and came back to win the

pants in the shot put, and live 
Katie Cromer, who is enter­
next sets 6-4, 6-4. 

in the discus alone. Three will 
ing her second year as head 
Ayres, who recently moved

throw the javelin and one in the 
coach of the Belles, was hoping 
up to the #2 singles spot on the

high jump. There will also be 
to encounter a close match 
team, has been a steady force

five people competing in the 
with DePauw Tuesday due to 
for the Belles in her four years

triple and long jumps. 
the team's great showings in at Saint Mary's. Last year, she
Due to the depth of this team, 
Hilton Head over spring break. ....
posted an 11-6 record as #3 in

the Belles should finish strongly 
Although Cromer admits that 
the singles spot, and placed

in all events this weekend. 
twelfth with Mary Cosgrove in 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Do you want: 
•sales 
experience? 

•steady 
performance compensation? 

•a 
fun place to work? 

•practical 
business experience? 

•help 
with your resume? 


Ifso, call fohn at 1-6900 or 4-1023 or drop offa resume to 314 LaFortune by Friday, March 24th at 5:00PM 
doubles of the Midwest Region. 
Cosgrove, who was Saint Mary's former #1 singles play­er, graduated last spring. Another great burden for the Belles was their graduating #2 singles player. 
"To make matters worse, in December my #3 player told me that she wasn't coming out, and my #4 transferred schools. The losses hurt, but I'm still very confident in our team this year. We showed great signs in Hilton Head, and I hope that this week we can get turned around and play like we know how," said Cromer. 
The Belles' next chance for victory will take place on Tuesday against Calvin College. 
1

~pi~~ iV~~~ +~r-th +r~m Y~ur ~a~~ 
(1 i.~a 4 \,u \,\,~,,~~ m(~-u"'-t"Cli~ ~-t"~e_Clm. <SP.'t~!!hi~~ f;;)u'i: up~~ Yeur 't?~ahr~em +t~er. \ ,._:f\-t-1:\~~ -the. ~l'\~e.~ ~+ Y~U'W" -f-'W"\e.~d .. 
·y~-u '1(~~-.v~ -tn~ ~u-t~ ~-~~ 
·'\Nh~ ju~-:t ~~-1: -:t~ 'KY\~'\N -:tha "rac1~" Y~u 4 tt.-t-tt~ -t~-~ .v~tt. 
~ ~ r ii .... 
'~·h4i: !~/(~-~~Q,~Q ·-tt,,~ 4t(i Clb~·U'tiii 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol & Drug Education 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 24, 1995 
• MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish square off against Big Ten 
ByB.j. HOOD 
SportS Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team got in a lot of tennis over Spring Break and a lot of rain. 
The match against Miami (Florida} was rained out, and it was a match Coach Bobie Bayliss felt confident his team could win. The match against Florida started late because of the wet conditions and no dou­bles were played. 
After competing in several matches over Spring Break. the Notre Dame men's tennis team will have a less hectic pace over the rest of the season, with mainly weekend matches. 
The first of these matches oc­cur on Saturday and Sunday. when the Irish square off with Big Ten opponents Indiana and Purdue. 
'The two teams are not top 
• SPORTS BRIEF CLUB SPORTS-' Observer is interested in cov· ering club sports teams for the Spring. Captains or represen.; tatives of teams are invited to visit the Observer office or call the Sports Department at 631· 4543. CHALLENGE-U-AEROBICS­All classes will be half price for the remainder of the year. Spots are still available. DROP-IN-VOLLEYBALL­RecSports is offering drop-in· volleyball on Tuesdays April 11, 18, and 25. Come by your­self or bring a friend. The ses­sions are from 8-11 pm in the Joyce Center. No teams or advanced sign-ups are neces­sary. .HOOPS SHOOT-OUT" Rec· Sports will be sponsoring a Hoop Shoot-Out on Tuesday, March 28 at 7 pm in the JACC. The Shoot-Out will consist of a One-on-One contset, a Three Point contest and. a Free Throw contest. Advance regis­tration is required and the deadline is Monday. March27. There is no fee for this event. For more info calll-6100. WEEKEND RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT-This tourna· 
ment will be on Friday, March 31 and Saturday, April 1. 

"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
•Fresh 
Ingredients 

•Lunch 
Specials starting at $3.50 include: egg roll, soup and tea 

•Dinners 
starting at $5 

•Private 
Dining Booths 

•Custom 
cooking with no MSG 

•Vegetarian 
Menu 

•15 
Years of Service Award 


For Reservations &Carry Out Call: 
272-6702 

Frilay II AM-10 PM For Dine-In Delivery Call: SaRMttay 4PM-10 PM 
272-2328 
Big Ten teams. Bayliss feels Indiana may be a little stronger team, but Purdue plays with a lot of enthusiasm 
Indiana's best performer is Derrick Pope, a big player with a big serve and a big game. At one time, Pope was a doubles partner of Jakub Pietrowski of Notre Dame. 
Derrick Barrett from Indianapolis is a very sound player for the Hoosiers. He defeated Mike Sprouse of the Irish in a tournament last sum­mer. Mark Abelman from Canada is another key per­former for Indiana. 
Bayiiss feels Purdue is more of a balanced team, rather than having a couple outstanding players. Purdue boasts the scrappy Jay Wessenberg as it's top player. 
Bayliss feels the doubles matches continue to be impor-
Bring your·own··· but 

racquetballs will be provided..,);;25. Classes are held in ~he 
Refreshments will be served.· Register in advance with the RecSports office by Thursday, March 30 and there is a $6 fee. For more info call1~6100. 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL BEN­EFIT RUN~ April 1st is the date for this 5K or 10K run and 1 mile walk. The run begins at 11 am and will start and finish at Stepan Center. There will be six divisions in each run and trophies will be awarded to the top finisher in e~ch division. All registrants will receive a t· shirt. The cost of the run is $5 in advance or 6$ the day of the event. All proceeds from the event will be donated to 
· Christmas in April. Family members of staff and family are invited to participate. Family members over age 18 need to complete the standard registration and insurance waiver and all minors have a signed waiver to participate. All registration/waiver forms can be obtained in the RecSports office and both will be available at the event. CASTING AND ANGLING 

tant, and the Irish have had great play from number two and three singles lately. Jakub Pietrowski and Steve Flanigan at number two, and John Jay O'Brien and Ryan Simme have been "outstanding" lately. At number one doubles, Bayliss hopes for more consistency from Jason Pun and Mike Sprouse. 
With the matches being more spread out for the remainder of the season, Bayliss said he wanted to isolate on specific ar­eas of player's games. 
"I had some goals for the time during Spring Break," Bayliss said. 
"One was to get in some ten­nis outside, since we don't get a chance to do that here." With what has been· accomplished so far. Bayliss appears confident for the remainder of the sea­son . 
dates· are April 4, 11, 18, and 
''" JACC, Rolfs, and campus lakes ... Equipment is provided, but participants are encouraged to bring their own. The fee is $8 and the class is open to stu­dents; staff. and faculty. Advance registration in the RecSports office is required. Participants will also be given the opportunity to purchase equipment at discounted rates. SMC 4-0N-4 VOLLEYBALL-Play well be on Wednesdays in April, concluding with a single· elimination tournament on the 26th. Each team must have six players, with no more than one varsity player per team. Turn rosters in to the front desk at Angela by March 31st. 
···················································­


I 
lood & '~ conversation
11fi' 
12:15 ISO lounge 

• 





~~ r~=~~~!er~!e~~eay 

paneldiscussion 
7 pm foster room 

:•..............................•..................... 

NCAA 
continued from page 28 
eled to fence such top teams as Brandeis, North Carolina, NYU and Stanford will help. 
"Traveling helped us a lot and will count in the end," de Bruin added. 
The lineup the Irish send out will include senior Conor Power and sophomore Jeremy Siek who are ranked 1-2 in foil. Captain Rakesh Patel and freshman Carl Jackson will compete in epee, while Lester and Hajnik are ranked No.1 and No.5, respectively, in sabre. 
"The key for us is not only how our top fencer does, but also how our second fencer fares," DeCicco said. 
"People need to stop worrying about what kind of ring they want and focus on what they need to do to be their best in this tournament," Lester added. 
In women's epee, de Bruin, 

WEEKEND RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY MARCH 31 & APRIL 1 JOYCE CENTER 
Men's & Women's Divisions T -Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at RecSports Deadline: Thursday, March 30 $6.00 Fee 
ranked No.1 in the midwest, and sophomore Colleen Smerek qualified, while foil captain Maria Panyi is also ranked No.1. Junior foilist Mindi Kalogera gave the Irish ten fencers in the field as she drew an at-large after being chosen as the 31st best women's foil fencer in the country. 
"Mindi has beaten a lot of these people already." DeCicco said. "Hopefully, she can finish in the middle of the pack or even further up." 
Because it is an individual tournament, the Irish's quest for a second straight champi­onship may hinge on their men­tal attitude. 
"The biggest concern is what they are doing in their own head that will determine how they do," assistant coach Ed Baguer said. "It really is going to come down to who believes they can win." 
"We are going to go out there and do the very best we can and the results will take care of itself," DeCicco concluded. 

--------~------­ ---~---~--­ 
----------------------~--------~---------­ 
Friday, March 24, 1995  The Observer· SPORTS  page 23  

Panyi 
continued from page 28 
College. After qualifying the maximum ten fencers for the competition, Notre Dame will try to ropeat and keep the tro­phy frJm ever leaving the city limits of South Bend. 
"I really have had three years to prepare for this," Panyi says. ''I'm going to try my best." 
(\s the captain of the women's foil team, Panyi will play a vital role in retaining the trophy. 
"Maria is the matriarch of this team," men's head coach Mike DeCicco said. "I am counting on her to be a leader." 
Panyi assumes this role with a confident attitude. 
"I just try my best and give my teammates opinions which fit into their fencing," Panyi said. "Because I have fenced for fifteen years, I have a lot more competition experience." 
However, when the 25-year old from Budapest began her fencing career, things were dif­ticull at first. At the ripe old age of nine, Panyi's uncle, a Hungarian Olympic fencing coach, persuaded her to take up the sport. 
"lie forced me to join," Panyi laughed. "I didn't like it at first. I didn't know anything about fencing. 
"Around fourteen I began to understand the sport and start­ed to enjoy it," Panyi added. "I don't regret it at all." 
The experience Panyi brings to the Irish spans the globe. She was named 1989 Junior Athlete of the Year in Hungary. In that same year, Panyi placed sixth at the Junior World Championships in Athens. During that time," she also spent three years on the Hungarian National team. Furthermore, the foil captain won the under­20 World Championships once, while competing in the finals live times. 
With this unmatched European competition behind her, Maria has been able to ex­cel at the NCAA level. 
"Europe is very strong;" Panyi said. "People begin fencing at an early age. Actions are much faster and there is a good deal of speed. Many also have a good understanding of the sport." 
Panyi's renowned success in Europe forced her to make a difficult decision. Either she could remain in Hungary and train for the Olympics or come to Notre Dame on scholarship. 


With a strong concern for her future, Panyi chose the latter. 
"You cannot do fencing for­ever and eventually you have to make a choice," she added. "If I stayed there I would only have a chance to go to the Olympics and then I would not have known what to do." 
For the Irish, Panyi could not have made a better choice. 
"She is the best female fencer we've ever had," DeCicco admitted. "She has gained a great amount of matu­rity and is an excellent student. I don't know what more you could ask from a student ath­lete." 
With her record of 7 4 wins this year, Panyi shattered the previous record of 61 set in 1986. Her current .975 career winning percentage places her first in that category. She also ranks second behind former Irish great Heidi Piper in win­ning percentage for a season. 
Through her individual achievements, Panyi has led by example. In her two years of fencing dual meets, the foil team has gone undefeated. 
"The team is getting stronger and stronger," noted Panyi. "We are recruiting stronger people because they see our success. We are also traveling more which helps us to see dif­ferent styles of fencing." 
A major reason for the wom­en's undefeated season this year involved junior Claudette de Bruin's move to captain of the epee team. After finishing 18th in foil last year at the NCAA's, de Bruin switched to her stronger weapon to shore up a young and inexperienced epee squad. 
Panyi is also quick to praise the performance of junior Mindi Kalogera who will join her this weekend in representing the Irish foil squad. Kalogera, who finished 23rd at the champi­onships last year, drew an at­large bid for the weekend. 
"Mindi has done a great job to step up to the place Claudette left," she added. 
In her years in the fencing world, Panyi has chosen the foil to dominate her opponents. The foil allows her to utilize her speed and quick reactions dur­ing a bout. Footwork and phys­ical conditioning are also key aspects of successful foil fenc­ing. 
"I can use my speed in foil, where in epee you have to be more patient," she said. "However, it is not just physical speed, but also ·mind speed." 
This weekend will mark the 
That's what we're all about. Interested? 
.. .

Multicultural Executive Council now accepting appli­cations for the 1995-96 school year. 
··­

Applications can be picked up in the Student Activities Office. Deadline: March 24. 
first time she is able to use that speed in the NCAA Championships. For the first two years of her eligibility, Panyi was barred from compet­ing because of NCAA rules she violated without even knowing she was doing so. 
"I was very upset about it," Panyi said. "I didn't under­stand why I got penalized for not knowing the rules. Coming from a foreign country and not knowing the language, no one ever informed me about them." 
Due to NCAA rules, this week­end will be Panyi's last chance to compete in the champi­onships because of her age. Finally, the stage is set. One last chance to achieve the glory in college that she enjoyed in Europe. 
One major roadblock along this path will be Olga Kalinovskaya from Penn State, the two-time defending wom­en's foil champion who also went undefeated this year. Kalinovskaya will be seeking redemption for the 15-4 loss she suffered to Panyi at the Penn State Open before the reg­ular season opened. 
No matter what happens, however, Panyi keeps every­thing in perspective with a be­fitting maturity. 
"I came to Notre Dame to get an education first and to fence second," Panyi added. 
On the eve of her first NCAA Championship meet, Maria awaits a chance at an NCAA championship that has been a long time coming. 
"I can't wait to win it," she said confidently. Maria Panyi would not ap­proach it any other way. 


~~---------------------~­
Friday, March 24, 1995

The Observer • SPORTS 
•LAC!UlSSE 

Irish find rival in Hobart 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
While the defense controls Hobart's Statesman offense, Randy Colley will lead a balanced attack for the Irish. 
ln~fpo0f1;s 
Jewelry, Accessories, Clothing, and much more! 
Guatemala•Peru•Mexico•Brazil Thailand•lndia•Ecuador 
Clearance Sale! Many New Items! 
3% of profits fund the education of 3 Guatemalan children (up to $1500 for 1995). Any help with donations welcome/ 
LaFortune Room 108 Mar. 20-25 St. Mary's Leman Hall Mar. 27-31 10 a.m. -5 p.m. 
Olaughlin Auditorium Friday, March 31 • 8:00 P.M. Saturday, April I • 8:00 P.M. Sunday, April 2, • 2:30 P.M. 
Featuring choreography by Guest Artist Sue Cherry, Faculty and Students Artistic Direction by lndi Dieckgrofe • Performed by SMC Donee Workshop 
TICKETS: 56/ADULTS; 54/SENIOR CITIZENS &GROUPS; $3/SMC-ND COMMUNITY; 52/STUDENTS TICKEIS ON SALE AT THE SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE BOX OFFICE, LOCATED IN O'lAUGHLIN ....11!1 AUDITORIIW, OPEN FROM 9 -5, MON.-FRI. DISCOVER, VISA, MASTERCARD ORDERS AT 219 I 284-4626 

By DAVID TREACY Sporrs Writer 
A rivalry may be the best way to establish Notre Dame (2-3) as a solid lacrosse program. Hobart, this Saturday's oppo­nent, may prove to be just the rivals that the Irish are looking for. 
Hobart, 2-0 this season, come into Moose Krause field this weekend as a strong offensive team. This is their first season as a division one program. The Statesmen play a tough sched­ule and don't give scholarships, much like Notre Dame. 
The Irish have played Hobart for the past two years, and have won both contests. Coach Corrigan expects this contest to be much like those in the past. "This is a typical Hobart team that we will see this weekend. They're well coached, well dis­ciplined, and play very cohesive offensive lacrosse," he said. 
In other words, this week­end's match-up will feature a defensive minded Irish squad against an aggressive Statesman offense. 
Hobart returns seven starters from last year's 11-3 squad. They graduated their main of­fensive threats, which could be viewed as both good and bad. 
While they do not have an ex­plosive scoring threat as in past years. they feature a well bal­anced offense that spreads out opposing defenses. When ev­eryone can drive to the net, that presents a problem. 
Thus. the defense must step 
up and control the Statesman 
offense as they've done for the past two years. Freshman keeper Alex Cade also must come ready to play against a shot-happy offense. 
Notre Dame will stay with their ball control offense this weekend. 
"We don't go out to run up the score on anybody. That's not our game. We look for the best shot opportunities, and need to play our game to come away with the win. We also need to find those plays that will help us control the ball and keep them out of the game," Corrigan added. 
Hobart is the fourth ranked team that Notre Dame has faced this season. The Irish come into the game ranked 17th in the country, with Hobart breathing down their necks at number 18. 
PLACE 
433 Decio 114 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 127 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy -120 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 0'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 103 Crowley 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 
115 O'Shaughnessy 120 O'Shaughnessy 

I I 1 I 
Friday, March 24, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
• BASEBALL 
Weather report: Hurricane warning for Irish 
By MEGAN MCGRATH 
Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team will look to stop a two­game losing skid this weekend. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, this weekend's opponent is the number three team in the na­tion, the 23-3 Miami Hurricanes. 
"I think we're looking for­ward to the challenge," said head coach Paul Mainieri. "Even though we're a very young team, and the kind of competition we've faced in our first 15 games assures me we won't be intimidated." 
In addition to the burden of playing one of the country's top teams in their home stadium, the Irish (8-7) will likely be without leading hitter Rowan Richards. 
The junior centerfielder suf­fered a separated shoulder in­jury last week while playing in Texas and is questionable for the Miami trip. Before the in­jury Richards was leading ev­eryday players with a .429 bat­ti-ng average. He was second on the team with two home runs and 14 RBI. 
The offensive load will likely fall to Richards' classmate, rightfielder Ryan Topham. Topham leads the team with six home runs and 24 RBI, and is batting at a .411 clip. 
"There's going to be a tremendous amount of pres­sure on Ryan to carry the load," Mainieri said. "He's is going to have to be our main guy. 
"The injury to Rowan creates a huge void in our lineup," Mainieri continued. "With one of our main run-producers on the shelf, we're going to need a total team effort to be success­ful." 
Lead-off hitter Scott Sollman has been hot of late, leading Notre Dame with 11 hits during their Texas swing and is now fifth on the team with a .328 average. 

The Irish will also look to third baseman Mike Amrhein for offensive support. Amrhein is batting .339 with 11 RBI. 
"We will also need our start­ing pitchers to be effective this weekend," Mainieri said. 
Sophomore Darin Schmalz (3­1, 1.69) will start tonight. Schmalz has won his last three starts and has a microscopic 
0.76 earned run average over those appearances. 
Christian Parker will take the hill Saturday. The freshman has pitched better than his 1-2 record and 4.63 ERA would in­dicate, and has also been effec­tive in the designated hitter role with a .391 average. 
The Irish can count on bullpen support from senior Tim Kraus. Kraus is 2-0 with two saves and a 0.96 ERA in six appearances. 
Notre Dame is going to need all the help it can get. 
Miami is perennial national baseball power, having ap­peared in the College World Series 13 times. In 1992, the Hurricanes eliminated Notre Dame 5-1 in the regional final, denying the Irish their first trip to Omaha since 1957. 
The 'Canes are led offensively by the top of their order. Lead­off hitter Rick Gama sports a team-high .350 average and also leads the team in hits and runs scored. In addition, he has belted three homers and driven in 20 runs. 
Third baseman Rudy Gomez is right behind Gama in the or­der and in team rankings with 
a .344 average. He has 18 RBI. Right-fielder Michael Torti is batting .333 with ten doubles and 17 RBI. Danny Buxbaum 
The Miami pitching staff has been regarded by many as one of the top in the country, and Notre Dame will face the 'Canes top three starters. Tonight Danny Henderson gets the start. Henderson is 5-1 in seven starts, has a 2.42 earned run average and leads the team with 49 strikeouts. 
Jason Adge will get the start­ing nod Saturday. Adge is 6-1 with a 1.77 ERA and 44 strike­outs. Adge has not surren­dered a home run in seven ap­pearances. 
J.D. Arteaga will pitch Sunday. Despite a 4.29 ERA, Arteaga is perfect in his five starts. 
Nevertheless, Miami native Mainieri is looking forward to the trip home. 
"Miami is a tough team; they could be the best in the coun­try, " he says. "But I am look­ing forward to seeing a lot of family and friends, and am con­

lead the team with four home fident we will play hard and runs and 22 RBI. respond well to the challenge." 
ATTENTION: 



INTERESTED IN BECOMING A PART OF NEXT YEAR·s SOPHOMORE CLASS COUNCIL? 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE ON THE 2ND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. APPLICATIONS MUST BE TURNED IN BY THURSDAY, MARCH 30 AT 5PM. 
MEGAN Pf1FR MATT CONNIE 
MURRAY MORIAR7Y GRIFFIN DOUGHER7Y 
QUESTIONS? CALL MATT AT 2024. 
The Alumni-Senior Club is hiring 
BARTENDERS 
for the 95-96 season. 
Pick up applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. Must be 21+by September, 1995. 
J­
'I 

page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 24, 1995 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 

Irish tame Tigers 88-74 

By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Assisranr Spons Ediwr 
Its tournament time. Time to 
step up or step out. 
After losing in the 
Midwestern Collegiate 
Conference tournament, the 
Notre Dame women's basket­
ball team understood this bet­
ter than anyone. They were 
not going to make the same 
mistake again as they entered 
the women's NIT. 
Last night the number three 
seed Irish (20-9) stepped up 
with a commanding 88-7 4 vic­
tory over number six seed 
Pacific (20~ 13). 

Entering the tournament Pacific was known for its stingy defense. They were second in defensive field goal percentage and points scored against in Big West conference play. Their opponents were averaging only 65 points a game. They also boasted the 14th best field goal 'percentage in the nation 
around 4 7 percent. 
Too bad for the Lady Tigers that the only thing the Irish are known for is winning. 
In midst of the game the Irish forgot about the Lady Tigers defensive prominence. They surpassed the 65 points al­lowed mark by 23 points and shot a whopping 48.6 percent from the field. 
It was the Irish defense that stole the spotlight. The nation­ally ranked Lady Tiger field goal percentage plummeted to a lowly 27.6 percent in the frrst half and 31.3 percent for the game. 
In their loss to Northern Illinois in the conference tour­nament the Irish sited a lack of defensive intensity and sloppy play on the offense as the rea­sons for the loss. 
"We've had the same problem in three other losses, the de­fense just lets us down," Irish head coach Muffet McGraw ex­plained after the loss to the Huskies. "We lacked defensive intensity and the offense did not click." 

According to McGraw, for the past week the Irish have been practicing on keeping their level of intensity on defense up for a whole game and eliminat­ing sloppy play on offense. 
The practice must have worked because neitfier was visible last night. The intensity had returned and the offense was clicking. The Irish had a 2~ -9 lead within th~ first eight mmutes. 
The inside tandem of Katryna Gaither and Letitia Bowen dominated the Lady Tiger de­fense scoring 27 and 18 points respectively. Gaither grabbed 10 rebounds and Bowen ripped down 8. · 
The Irish will play the winner of-the Clemson-Northwestern State, La. game today in a semifinal match-up. 
:"­
.. 
·-------------------------·
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  

I I  ~yuge 14 .. Pizzafo_r :'ft;;$5TJie Best Pizzo at The Best ·ce  I I  
I  Call The Huddle At 1-6902  I  
I  I  
I I  COUPON EXPIRES 5130185  I I 

·-------------------------·
I 
I I I 
2f:Z 14 .. Unlimited Toppi_nfiyPizzas
I 
a 2/iter Colee ProdliCt Oii $10
I 
Ca/11-6902
I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 5130185
I 

·-------------------------· 

·-------------------------· 
I I 
I I I I 
I I I I  Large 14 .. Cheese Pizza lJ!Uy U Now. That ·s a Deal! Cal/1-6902  I I I I  
I  I  
I  COUPON EXPUlES 5130185  I 

·-------------------------·
I I I I I I 
I I I I  You p:t 2 ~e 14 .. 1 item ·zzas;;or OntZ $9 Ca 11-69 12  I I I I  
I  I  
I  COUPOJf EXPIRES 5130,.5  I  

·-------------------------· 
I I I I I I I I I 
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'U lll«<or 6#!111 t11fY ct1MjiCtiDn ctlllptJII ar tle.J, jlut Cllllu 111111 at. We DeliYer 7 8y.s • ,...bDu:ll, tliJuter 11114 lilte llite. 
r 
The Official BASEBALL
....a 
VARSITY SHOP 

otre Dame BASEBALL
....., 

Baseball BASEBALL 
..... Cap. BASEBALL 
BASEBALL 
THIS WEDNESDAY March 29 • 4 P.M. 

Friday, March 24, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
P>. SPclTT£.1> TIE 15 JIJSI '1\-\1:. f"RI£-J-1\)S, 0\-\'C. 51-\()ULD W'\ 1'\01 
\'1\-\t.N OOt. t.Nit.l<.iM~'S ltMM.E 
1\-1\l'lG W\-\'C.I'l 'iOO'Rt 'NEJ...~\NG iO LOOK QIJiiE fl.':> S~ED'{ fl.'S 
S\1(\\'£.5! 1\GERS 1-\J\'lE I\ CERT~I~ \Jt-.INI\M£.1) PJ\RT\ES 
Nt>.IIJRAL flt>.IR R)R CJ\9-:JP..l \it>.\?,11\Jfl.Ll'\ IXJ. ~=:"~::-~~======-i r----v---4 r CANT Bt:.UE\It. 

DILBERT 
HOW COULD THE 
ELBONII\NS AfFORD TO BUY THIS COI"\PANY? THEIR WHOLE COUNTf\Y 
IS JUST MUD 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Bronze place 29 Bobby's
1 Toasty follower?
5 Pack in 30 Stepped-up9 Almanac tidbit pace13 "Heat of the 31 Sty chow Moment" rock 35 Pray for agroup miracle14 Used high 38 Ascorbic acid, beams, perhaps for one15 Stern 39 Kachina doll 16 Item in a giblets makers
package 40 Hands up the 
11 Engine ball
sparkers 18Aimless 
41 In other words 19 Run off 
43 Cicero's 22 Came to the· 
birthplace rescue 44 Mercury, e.g. 
23 The 47 Northern Breadbasket of abodes: Var. America 49 Statue outside 
24 Pseudopodal Three Rivers organisms Stadium 
B 0  SG IC  0  M A I M u s s  
U T A H  S H  I  E S  E N T 0  
R  I  L E  ~~~S T  L E R  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
PSALTERY WAIVE L E A All S WE L T E R KANGAROOMIE 
I BE·N-UREO
S L A M G E T T Y P E L E S E R E N A T A A S P E N 
A COSMETIC "COUCH 
NETWORK.''
SHOPPING 
THEY 1"\ADE TRILLIONS 


14 Bone china ~~H A N T 0 M S20 Bit of regalia 
MADAMES ODOR 21 Cynical laugh 
A L I CE G'IO B L E syllable 
J A G"II" 0 I A N K E y s 24 "As Long --­
OMIT CISCO EARP 
Needs Me" 

R 0 T E A N T E S T A Y ("Oliver!" song) 
i\-\1'5! W\-\'l \l\Dt\1 ~c:N Kl\..l 'K'C.R v-I\-\t.\'.1 Sl-It. CAll£ \1'\ \1-\1:. I)OOR ?.1 
THEY PACKAGED THE MUD 1\ND SOLD IT AS 
54 Initials on old meeting.halls 55 Industrialist Schindler 
56 Resort near Copper Mountain 
57 "Whip It" band 
sa Choice 
59 Sundance Kid's girl 60 Giver of regards 61 Lavish affection 62 Time for a 
whistle 
DOWN 
1 Shortage 2 Offshore 3 Basketball's 
~-Barry 4 Waste no time in traveling to 5 Ravel's "Da~.hnis et 
6 Vacati6n purchase 
1 Celeste being 
8 U.S. Army gear 
9John Glenn 
capsule to Yellow-fever 
mosquito 11 Arum lily 12 Headlock? 

MIKE PETERS 
BILL WATTERSON 
B'i 1\-\t. WI\'\, It= ~OIJ 1-\tl\) Mt>.\l~ PROI'lR lmR<:>\>IJG\O~S. WE MIG\\\ li~NE SMOOC.\-\8> 
1-\'t.R 1-\P>.Nil. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
ON TI-lE 
["~--~·~ 


AT LEAST 
TH E.Y SOLO 11-\EIR 
THEY KMOW 
ENTIRE. COUNTRY
HOW TO 

IN LITTLE :fARS 
1"\ANAGE. 
MOST ELBONIANS
RESOURCES 
PERISHED IN
) 

1-\0LTEN LAVA 
AT THE EARTH'S 
CORE.. 

The latest technology in the quest for faster pizza delivery . 

• 
OF INTEREST 

• 
Student musicians wiiJ perform 1n a concert. Saturday, March 25 at 2 p.m. in Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite. They will perform various works by Smetana, Mozart and Salnt·Saens. The concert is free and open to the public. 

• 
The first Management Club meeting will be held on March 29 at 6 p.m. in Room 221 Hayes·Healey. Pro· fessor Herbert True will be speaking on the "Power of Motivation." 

• 
Le Ly Hayslip, author of "When Heaven and Earth Switched Places" and "Child of War, Woman of peace," of which were the basis for Oliver Stone's movie "Heaven and Earth", will be speaking in 101 DeBartolo on Monday, March 27. at 7 p.m. with a reception and book signing to follow. Cost is $1. Tickets can be pur· chased in advance from the LaFortune Info. desk. 

• 
Oliver Stone's "Heaven and Earth," tho first Vietnam War movie from the perspective of the Viet­namese, will be showing Fri-Sat, March 24-25 in the Montgomery Theatre. Admission is free. 

• 
An Electronic Job Search Skills workshop will be held from 3:30 • 5:00 in Room 228 DeBartolo on Frl· day, March 24. This hands-on lab will demonstrate job search technology and guide students of all computer skill levels through the Internet and World Wide Web. Limited space is available; call Career and Placement Se.rvices to reserve your spot. 

• 
Visions #10 is accepting stories for publication. All entries must by typed. submitted In triplicate {3 copies), name and address on removable front cover sheet. Please submit by Thursday, March 30, 4 p.m. to the English Department, Room 356 O'Shag. There will be a cardboard box marked RE: Visions. Questions? Contact Professor O'Rourke. 1·7377. 465 Decio. 

• 
The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company pre­sents William Shakespeare's As You Like It. Sat. and Sun., March 25·26. 1:30 p.m. at Dalloway's Coffee House, SMC. Admission is free and donations welcome. 


•MENU 
SOUTH DINING HAU.. Candlelight Buffet: Tortellini/Basil Cheese Sauce Poached-Baked Salmon Rainbow Trout/Buffalo Shrimp 
NORTH DINING HALL Chili Cheese Macaroni Shells Cod & Clam Fish Boats Salmon, Winter-Blend Vegetables 
St. Mary's College Call 284-4500 for information 
-... 
• 
.. 
25 Gaze dreamily 
26 Fair 
28 Hagar's 
daughter, in the comics 30 Kit Carson Homesite 32 Enemy of Thor 33 Dentist's command 34 Eight reals, once 36 Isolated, in a way 

37 Recite in a monotone 42 Essen article 43With ears pricked 44 Hubris 45 Sarge's superior 46 In excess of 
48 French dessert 50 Where the Sterling sits 51 Its HO is in Brussels 52 Mozart opera "La Clemenza di --" 53 Panache 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

SPORTS 
page 28 Friday, March 24, 1995 
• fENCING 
By JOE VILLINSKI 

• 
Assisranr Spons Ediror 
-
No one ever said repeating is easy. 
However, for the Notre Dame fencing team, that challenge was made a little less difficult as the Irish were only one of four teams to qualify the maximum ten fencers for the NCAA Championships this weekend. 
"It's pretty much certain that one of those four teams will win it," epee cap­tain Claudette de Bruin said. 
.The Irish will be hosting the champi­onships as fencing takes over the Angela Athletic Facility at St. Mary's for the next four days. Competition will begin at 10:00 am on Saturday, Monday, and 

.. Tuesday, while starting at noon on Sunday. The women's rounds will be conducted the first two days followed by the men's on the next two . 
"I like having the championships here because no one organizes them better than Notre Dame," sabre captain Chris Hajnik said. 
Here, the best fencers in the colle­giate ranks will gather to settle the team champion in an individual manner. Because of NCAA rule changes, the fencers will compete in individual round robin bouts to determine the team champion. 
"It is an individual tournament and everyone will be a little different," sabreman Bill Lester said. "On a team level we have to support each other. Individually, each person has to do their best and in the back of their mind know that they are also helping the team." 
The competition will begin in each weapon with a round robin to eliminate eight fencers from the original 32. The 
Dog 
ria Panyi has always one offencings best. ekend, at the NCM ionships, she gets her 
n air of confidence surrounds Maria Panyi. Just talk to her this resolution resonates in 
he 
ice. Just fence her and 
to lose. Almost all of her opponents have. However, if it is any consolation, the 
also attest confidently that they lost to greatest female fencer ever to pick up a foil at Notre Dame. In her abbreviated college career, the Hungarian native 
has compiled a caree 
,..."'......,.·,..rt of 115-3. 
d Irish superstars burst on the year posting·a 41-1 mark, while 7 4-2 in this year's campaign. Such a record is a testament to her sur 
441 think I'm definitely top three 
.........,..~u·.u, .. Panyi concluded. That may be an understatement. ' 4Ifs just going to depend on the moment, 
director, and my condition that will how I finish," Panyi added. Panyi and the Irish will be looking to fm­first the next four days as they host th NCAA Championships at St. Mary 
see PANYI I page 23 

remaining 24 will all fence each other 
Fencing NCAA Championships 

once. In case of identical records, a 
Schedule of Events 

fence-off will be used to settle the tie­
breaker. ~aturday> March 25 As for the other three teams that qual­
9:30 am Openin~ Ceremony ified two fencers in all five weapons, the 
10:00 am Women s Foil Preliminary Round Introduction of Competitors

Irish have only fenced one during the 
NOON Women's Epee Preliminary Round 

season. That team is St. John's who the 
2:00 pm Women's Foil Round Robin 

men lost to 17-10 and the women 
3:00 pm Women's Epee Round Robin defeated 18-14. The other two teams 
include 1994 runner-up Penn State and ~unday, March 26 Yale. 
NOON Womens Foil & Epee Preliminaries "If I were a betting man I don't see 
Rounds Followed by Awards how you could bet against Penn State," 
!Monday, March 27

men's head coach Mike DeCicco said. 
10:00 am Mens Foil & Epee Preliminary Rounds

"Now is also as good a time as any for 
1:00 pm Introduction of CompetitorsSt. John's to win it. Yale also has a very 
3:00 pm Men's Foil & Epee Round Robins strong team." 
4:00 pm Men's Sabre Round Robin Despite not having fenced Penn State 
Tuesday, March 28 

and Yale, the Irish feel that having trav­
10:00 am Men's Foil/Epee/Sabre Round Robins 
All matches to be held at the Angela Center
see NCAA I page 22 


Saturday, March 25 Sunday, March 26 
Monday, March 27 

NO Men's Tennis vs. Indiana, I pm NO Fencing: NCAA Championships 
NO Fencing: NCAA Championships 

at a
NO Baseball at Miami 

NO Lacrosse vs. Hoban, 2 p.m. 
at Saint Mary's Angela Center 
at Saint Mary's Angela Center 
(through Sunday) 

SMC Tennis vs. Manchester, 10 a.m. (Saturday through Tuesday) 
(Saturday through Tuesday) 
WNIT Second Round 

NO Softball at Ball State NO Men's Tennis vs. Purdue, 
Go out and cheer on the Irish to a 

NO Women's Tennis at Tennessee 3 p.m. at Eck Pavilion 
second straight 

NO Track at E. Kentucky/Stanford NO Women's Tennis at Kentucky 
National Championship 









