-
I I\ I\ It It I I I I It I 0 'I I I I I\ I I I I I It I I I I 1 1 't 1,, 
'1 I I I I I I 1 I I I 1 \I 

Wednesday, Aprill2, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 121 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEVVSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAJ\t1E AND SAINT !V\ARY'S 
Students attacked off-campus 
By LIZ FORAN Associate News F.Jitor 
Two Notre Dame students were robbed at gun point as they made their way back to campus early Saturday morn­ing, according to Charles Hur­ley, assistant direetor of Notre Dame Security. 
Two male students reported they were walking back to campus on Eddy Street, just south of the five points intllrsection, when they were approached by two men, who demanded their money and displayed what appeared to be 
a .22 caliber handgun. 
The men were described as blacks in their 20s, both wear­ing baseball caps. 
One was wearing a dark winter jacket. 
Hurley said that the incident was reported to Notre Dame Security, but since it occurred off-campus, he advised the victims to file a report with the South Bend Police. 
"We want to remind every­one again of the importance of using public transportation or getting a ride home when off campus," he said. 
He said that students should exercise 

'Ben & Jerry' offer unique insights Ice Cream not merely for profit 
By MARK HUFFMAN News Writer 
In an e11'ort to increase social responsibility in the business world, Jerry Greenfield and Ben Cohen called for a redefinition of success, focus­ing on not only financial profit, but social achievements as well. 
The two business partners, founders of Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream delivered a lecture last night at the Stepan Center, en­ti tied, "Social Responsibility, Radical Business Philosophy, and Free Ice Cream For All." 
Dominic Kulik, CEO of Take the Lead, Inc., an emerging environmentally-sound cloth­ing manufacturer, introduced 
• The Observer/Jan Rezeli 
Ben and Jerry, while dis­
JerrY Greenflel.d, o~ the left, and Ben Cohen called for businesses to assume more social responsibility in 
cussing the values of entre­
the1r talk last mght 1n Stepan. The two founded Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream. 


prenuership and "caring capi­talism" in his new corporation. 
To start their lecture, Greenfield gave his version of the duo's start of the company, remembering Cohen's failure at a "University Without Walls" program, his own rejec­tions at medical school, and their common desire to be their own bosses. 
"Since we both enjoyed eat-small college town of Burlington, Vermont. 
Through a few years of minor success, culminating into sales in the nearby Boston area, Ben & Jerry's began more intense manufacturing. The two forged forward after a feud with the gigantic Pilsbury Company. Ben & Jerry's fought the con­glomerate with their cam­paign, "What's The Doughboy Afraid Of?" through aerial signs, 1-800 numbers, and mailing lists, which resulted in the ultimate survival of Ben & Jerry's. 

Following this brief history. Cohen took the stand and dis-
see ICE CREAM/ page 4 
ing so much," recalled Greenfield, "we thought that we should go into food." So, after splitting a $5 correspon­dence course from Penn St. on ice cream making and gather­ing $12,000 between them, (including a $4,000 loan) Ben and Jerry founded their own ice cream company in an abandoned gas station in the 

Hall leaders elected 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
Saint Mary's News Edi10r 
Although most residents of Saint Mary's College now have newly elected hall council lead­ers. next year's Holy Cross res­idents will have to wait for a run off election on April18. 
The Holy Cross ticket of Emily Broussard (president). Anne Geisler (vice president), Jessica Heimers (secretary), and Eileen Newell (treasurer) received 22.7 percent of the total votes. 
Alaina Higginbotham (presi­dent), Caroline Blum (vice president), Megan Driscoll (secretary) and Amy Laws (treasurer) will also reappear on the run-off ballot after re­ceiving 43.8 percent. 
The third ticket running for Holy Cross, comprised of Patri­cia Osan (president), Julia Kalgren (vice president). Betsy LaMora (secretary) and Marin Shaughnessy (treasurer) re­ceived 21.1 percent of the votes but will not participate in the run-off. 
A total of 61.8 percent of the future Holy Cross residents voted with 6.3 abstaining. 
Simone Barber will be the next president of LeMans Hall Council with Beth Ann Miller (vice presiden), Valerie Meyer (secretary). and Jennifer Hard­ebeck (treasurer) backing her as they received 55.2 percent of the votes. 
The ticket of Clare Heekin (president), Sandy Penska (vice president), Shannon Heaney (secretary) and Gretchen Fink (treasurer) collected 21.3 per­cent while Angela Cataldo (president), Megan Borchers (vice president), Corinne Haan­raahan (secretary) and Kristin Wisniewski received 22.4 per­cent. A total of 1.1 percent ab­stained of the 41.1 percent of future residents who voted. 
The unopposed ticket of Kim­berly Fleming (president), Courtney O'Rourke (vice presi­dent), Erin Johnson (secretary). and Cindy Kielkucki (treasurer) will lead McCandless Hall after raking in 83.7 percent. A total of 16.3 percent abstained and 
32.7 percent of future resi­dents participated in the vote. 
Half of the future residents of Regina voted and 61.5 of them elected the ticket of Lara Becker(president), Delilah Welch (vice president), Jennifer Slicott (secretary) adn Meghan Theard (treasurer) the leaders of Regina. 
The opposing ticket of Amy Capretta (president), Cathy Eisenhauer (vice president), Julie Patton (secretary) and Maryann Schwoyer (treasurer) received 35.9 percent. Two and one half percent abstained. 
The first student leaders of the fourth floor senior housing will be Betsy Killian (presi­dent), Heather Durie (vice president), Kelly McDevitt (sec­retary). and Paullette Raczkowski (treasurer) who ran unopposed and collected 
94.4 of the total votes. 5.1 per­cent abstained. 
Portfolios necessary to graduate 
ing, writing and thinking skills, Associate English ProfessorSMCprogram it encourages self and mutual Ann Loux, students whose constructive criticism among standardized test scores areestablishes students. high enough have the oppor­The program also helps to tunity to take a test at the be­develop a students' sensitivity ginning of the semester in or­
writing standard 

to various audiences and der to pass out of the W re­By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI engages students in the dis­quirement. Assistant Saim Mary's News Editor course of their disciplines. However. few students get 
The final goal is to encourage their W's this way because the "Did you get your W?" students to find purpose and tests are graded very harshly. This is a common question on pleasure in their writing. and the W may not be given 
Saint Mary's campus. Most of the faculty feels that after this year. 
In 1972, Saint Mary's College the writing program is very According to Loux, "the W began a writing program that successful, although some stu­classes are good classes, and would eventually become a ma­dents grumble about the rigor­we want students to take them, jor requirement for Saint ous requirements. because their writing does im­
Mary's students. The program According to Associate En­prove. 
requires that every student glish Professor Thomas Bon­"The test is a one-shot deal, complete an intensive writing nell, "a program like this at­and the W classes are not one­course and submit a writing tempts to serve the students' shot. Improving your writing portfolio for review in order to best interests, and their is an is a process." graduate. insistence on doing the best by In the W portfolio, students A student must also receive the students that we can. include a paper from the end of an advanced W in their major "We don't do a student any the semester. and in class writ­
in order to graduate as well. favor graduating her if sh~ ing assignment from the end of The program began because can't put a sentence together." the semester, and a re-written a curriculum revision cut core Associate Professor of Math­paper from any time during the 
requirements which lessened ematics Joanne Snow is also semester. 
the importance of being able to co-director of the Writing Profi­Bonnell says that "the write well. Faculty from six ciency Program this year. She amount of cooperation between different disciplines voluntarily has had two articles published the departments is remarkable. 
began to teach writing within on the importance of writing in Semester by semester, the their disciplines. mathematics. value of the program is ratified Later, the W became a grad­Snow feels that the impor­by the process." uation requirement. Every stu­tance of writing extends The faculty hopes that the W 
dent must write up to the W beyond the English classes: Program benefits the students. standard. "being able to write effectively Bonnell says that "you're in a According to Associate En­and doing so makes thinking position of respect if you know glish Professor Julie Kim, "it's so much clearer and it clarifies how to write well. We try to in­a good idea to have a standard the true meaning of theorums still in students a degree of of writing that every one's com­and concepts. It is very impor­confidence and competence in fortable with. Most universities tant to be able to write no mat­students that will give them a 
don't have a program like ter what discipline you're in." leg up. this." With this emphasis on being "There is a built in emphasis The W program encourages able to write well, it is not easy and value on writing that keeps students' to develop their read-to earn your W. According to people focused on writing." 
-• •' r I r I 1 I I I I I// I/ If I J 1 I I 1 >I I I I I I j 'I I I I I I 1 1 
Wednesday, Aprill2, 1995page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 

• INSIDE COLUMN 


No Car, No Cash, No Life 
Dear Mom and Dad, 
I'm not writing to ask for money. They are let­ting me sell my plasma twice a week now, and the health repercussions aren't that bad. I've only passed out once in Philosophy and once in 


Calculus. So I'm not  Patti Carson  
writing because I need  Saint Mary's Editor  
money. I'm writing  

because I need a car on campus. That's right -I need one. And I've got a lot of reasons, too. (Let's see if that course in Argumentation is paying off.) 
•Claustrophobia 
is one thing, but claustro­phobia in South Bend should have its own listing in the encyclopedia: A condition char­acterized by dangerously high levels of te­dium. See also: Jack Nicholson in "The Shining." 

•I 
will no longer have to show up in the 


a.m. at the Burger King drive-thru without a car. I'm really beginning to feel a little self­conscious about walking through the DRIVE­THRU. . •How can you ask someone on a date with no car? "Do you want to grab a bite to eat at the dining hall and then thumb a ride to Miniature Golf World?" 
•The 
next time I am misdiagnosed at the infirmary, I can drive myself to the emer­gency room without needlessly infecting oth­ers. (Remember that time at the beginning of the year when I had the chicken pox and was diagnosed with bed lice?) 

•Rollerblading 
casualties are up this year, some two million to date (and I think that's just on this campus alone). 

•Sometimes 
you've just got to get to Meijer's. 

•Roadtrips 
are cool. 


•Cabs 
are expensive these days. And I al­ways seem to get the same cabbie who tells those gross jokes about Michael Jackson. 

•You 
don't have to come and get me on the holidays, and I won't have to post those signs everywhere, all the while praying that some­one will respond. 

•Hitchhiking 
is getting pretty scary. By the way, is Charles Manson still in prison? 


Most of my friends have their cars on cam­pus, especially my friends from Carroll. (But the commute from Carroll to DeBartolo is so long and arduous that they probably couldn't get by without their cars.) Try the walk from Saint Mary's. 
So I've given you my reasons and I know what you're probably thinking: That all makes sense, but what if I get a flat tire? What if I get a speeding ticket? What if I have a car accident? What if I become stranded somewhere? 
To which I would respond: Yeah, and what if a myriad of magical fairies whisks my car off the highway while I'm driving? What if Maya Angelou actually shows up for a speak­ing engagement at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame? And what if monkeys fly out of my butt? COME ON MOM AND DAD. LET'S BE REAL HERE. I promise I'll be careful and responsible and all that. 
Respectfully, 
Your Kid 

P.S.-If you cannot bring yourself to grant my wish to have my car on campus, maybe you could at least send some money? Thanks. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 

News Accent David Ring Angie Relver Deborah Schultz Shannon Marie Johnston 
Sports Viewpoint Tim Sherman Meaghan Smith Graphics Victoria Prarte 
Tom Roland Production Lab Tech Belle Bautista Brandon Candura Jackie Moser 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righ!S are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 

Australian aborigines sue government 
SYDNEY  were removed from their homes from  
It could be the most brutal of sepa­ the 1920s to the 1960s. Authorities  
rations: the door kicked in, the chil­ believed that aboriginal people would  
dren snatched away, forever.  eventually die out. They thought they  
And under Australia's Northern  were doing the children a favor.  
Territorial law, in effect from 1918 to  If the challenge is successful, the  
1953, it was all legal.  aborigines will then seek damages for  
Police used the law against  cultural, family and spiritual loss and  
Australia's aborigines, creating a  suffering.  
"stolen generation" in a supposed  Hundreds of other cases would then  
effort to save a dying race by integrat­ be set to follow in a class action.  
ing its young into the white majority.  Aborigines could be awarded millions  
Light-skinned aboriginal children  of dollars in compensation from the  
were seized, and then handed out to  federal government.  
white families. Dark-skinned children  There are only about 125,000 abo­ 
were put in bleak orphanages.  rigines left in Australia, just 1 percent  
"I wasn't bitter at anything," says  of the continent's population. Of these,  
Hilda Muir. Now 76, she was taken  about 45,000 are pure-blooded, and  
from her mother's side at age 8.  the others are of mixed aboriginal and  
"But I still always regret that I never  European origin.  
went back to see my people or see my  There was no government comment  
mother especially. That was the sad­ on the lawsuit Tuesday.  
dest part, that we didn't go back."  However, Prime Minister Paul  
On Tuesday, she and five other abo­ Keating's government, in power since  
rigines sued the government for  1991, has ushered in a new spirit of  
forcibly removing them from their  activism on behalf of the aboriginal  
homes.  community.  
They walked into the High Court in  The High Court ruled several years  
Melbourne, filing papers that charge  ago that aborigines who could prove  
that the territorial law was  they still had a connection to their tra­ 
unconstitutional and violated the U.N.  ditional land should retain their land  
Convention on Genocide.  rights. Keating's government respond­ 
"It was a very powerful moment.  ed by passing a land rights bill.  
There was a lot of emotion as they  His Labor Party government is also  
went through the door to lodge the  devising what it calls the "social jus­ 
writ," said Wes Miller, director of the  tice" package for aborigines, to pro­ 
Katherine Aboriginal Legal Aid  vide housing, job training, education  
Service.  and improved medical services for  


Source: Nielsen Media Research AP
Thousands of aborigine children aborigines. 

Clinton signs health insurance bill Report details Smith's accusations 

WASHINGTON COLUMBIA, S.C. With tax returns due in less than a The woman charged with drowning her two sons told week, President Clinton signed legisla­authorities her stepfather fondled her when she was a 
tion Tuesday giving 3.2 million self­

teen-ager, but she felt she had to protect him because he employed people the right to deduct was "the only father" she had. Susan Smith, who faces a 
part of the cost of health insurance. 

murder trial in July, said the molestation started in the 
But he did so reluctantly, complaining summer of 1987 and continued until a sheriffs investiga­

because Congress included in the bill a 

tion began in March the next year, according to a sher­special exception handing media mogul iffs report released Tuesday. According to Family Court 
Rupert Murdoch a $63 million tax 

records released in February, Mrs. Smith's stepfather,
break. Clinton also complained that Congress failed to 

Beverly Russell, was never charged with a crime but use the bill to close a loophole enabling billionaires to signed a March 25, 1988, court decree admitting the alle­avoid their federal tax responsibility by renouncing their gations. Mrs. Smith's lawyers objected to release of the citizenship. The president told a midday news confer­
records, saying they will hurt her defense. On Monday, 
ence he could have dealt with the Murdoch situation had Circuit Judge William Howard became the second judge Congress given him line-item veto authority enabling him to release such reports, saying there was no evidence the 
to kill a specific part of a spending or tax bill. 

defense would be harmed. 
Campus article leads to uproar Exercise at any age prolongs life 
CHICAGO WASHINGTON 
M-B's. That's police talk for "male blacks," and when It's never too late to get fit, according to a studythe phrase cropped up in a story about a fight at a cam­comparing the survival of men who started and main­

pus party, it led to a sit-in that has shut down the student 

tained exercise programs with those who never exer­newspaper at DePaul University. Last week, dozens of cised. Steven Blair, head of the Cooper Institute for 
DePaul students, most of them black, stormed the office Aerobics Research, said Tuesday that a 10-year studyof the weekly DePaulia, ordering staff members to leave. 

showed that men who were unfit but who exercised their 
About 20 students have been holed up ever since, with no way to good physical shape had about half the number of resolution in sight. Negotiations are continuing with the 
deaths from all causes of those who were persistently
administration. Last week, DePaul's president, the Rev. unfit. When only heart attack deaths were considered,John Minogue, asked newspaper staffers and protesters 
the exercise benefit was even greater, the research to reach an agreement, then suspended publication of found. The research, to be published Wednesday in the Friday's edition. The protesters, who include some Journal of the American Medical Association, studied 
whites and Hispanics, are demanding the ouster of De­

9,777 men who took measured treadmill exercises 
Paulia's editor in chief, 21-year-old Zack Martin. 

between 1970 and 1989. 

• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
Wednesday, April 12 Accu-Weather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 12. 



11.4 9.9 11.4 6.5 
One ratings point equals 954,000 TV hanes; share is lhe pen:entage ollV sets llroed lliD ashow. 
'In millions 
(P) Preml6re. (R) Rerun, (S) Special 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN f.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
AHanta 60 53 Dallas 82 46 New Orleans 80 54 eaftimore 68 52 Denver 73 36 NewYorl< 60 51 Boston 58 45 Los Angeles 78 59 Philadelphia 65 53 Chicago 57 35 Miami 83 76 Phoenix 92 60 
01995 Accu·Wealher, Inc. 

Columbus 55 44 Minneapolis 51 25 St. Louis 64 42 ...,t• ',. . " . ~ J : .: : 1"111..9,.. ·:· 


--~----·~-----­•' I • 1 I I I I I 'I I I I I  --------­ --­ - 
I  I:  • \  1  \  
Wednesday, April 12, 1995  The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS  page3  
• HALL PRESIDENTs' couNciL  Former Texas Governor  



Students urged to donate furniture slated to visit campus 
It's One Of The Most Useful Credit Cards On The 
Planet. Unless You've Stolen It. Your MasterCard® is stolen. You panic, get 
angry, panic some more. Then you call and cancel it. Now the thief is in possession 

about seven cents worth of stolen plastic. (Maybe he can use it as a coaster when he 
entertains at the hideout.) So relax. You only have to pay for stuff you bought, 
and you can get a new card the next day.· It'll be accepted at millions of places, 
&? 
must sell wallets. MasterCard. It's more than a credit card. It's smart money.TM • ­
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 

Thinking of getting rid of that old couch or lamp now that the school year is drawing to a close? 
Before throwing them in the dumpster, consider giving them away. 
Life Treatment Centers, Inc., of South Bend, plans to open a new halfway house this May for people recovering from drug and alcohol addictions. 
In order to furnish the house, the organization is asking stu­dents who do not intend to put unwanted belongings in hall storage for the summer to instead donate them to the cen­ter. 
"We're looking for things that will make the halfway house a little more comfortable," said the center's Chris Browning, who made the pitch for dona­tions at last night's Hall Presi­dents' Council meeting. "We'll take almost anything." 
Life Treatment Centers, which has traditionally helped the indigent and homeless with drug and alcohol abuse, offers its services in a set of three steps. 
After 60 days of treatment and detoxification, the center's patients are placed in a halfway house setting, a program that the center wants to expand. 
Until this year, the halfway house program was part of the physical structure of the Life Treatment Centers offices. However, the organization is now moving the program into a house in the South Bend area. 
While living in the house, pa­tients will work during the day and attend Alcoholics Anony­mous or Narcotics Anonymous meetings at night, said Brown­ing. 
"The house is a transition be­tween treatment and getting back into society," he said. 
Students interested in donat­ing items or who have ques­tions about the program can contact Browning at 239-6418. The center will usually be able to pick up the items on the same day that a student calls. 

· Co.stA ~icA 

Vacation while learning Spanish 
lltinking about ~at to do with your summer 
Why not spend it in a tr<1pical location. doing somt..1hing that you can justify to your parents? l~•rn Spanish! 
lbe Institute for Spanish Language Studies has 5 different Total Immersion Schools to moose from. Live with a Costa Rican family and study with students from all around the world. With different locations and price packages your satisfaction Is guaranteed! Col/ Nmv !II 
~~~~~~1~-800-765-0025 :f._·~­

~ ~­
ISLS 
"''"'tw.nlool 
Special to The Observer 

Former Texas Governor Ann Richards will speak at 7:30 
p.m. April 19 (Wednesday) in Washington Hall at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. 
Tickets are $3 for stu­dents, $5 for the public and can be purchased at the La Fortune Student Center Information Desk. 

Richards in 1990 was elected the first woman governor of Texas in more than fifty years. She promised to make gov­ernment accountable, accessi­ble, efficient and inclusive. As part of this program, she ap­pointed the state's first om-budsman to investigate citizen complaints ranging from inept government regulation of alco­hol sales to abuses in nursing homes. 

She appointed more African­Americans, Hispanics and women to state posts than any previous governor. 
Richards sought to recruit in­dustry and create jobs to bring economic recovery to her state. Her attempts to streamline state government resulted, in 1993, in the lowest state bud­get increase in more than thir­ty years. 
Richards also fought against crime by tripling the minimum sentence for capital murder, cutting early releases of violent offenders by almost two-thirds and rewriting the Texas Penal Code to keep violent criminals behind bars. 
Richards earned national at­tention in 1988 when she deliv­ered the keynote address at the Democratic National Conven­tion and uttered the oft-re­peated line that George Bush had been born with "a silver foot in his mouth." 
Recycle The 


Observer 

•Ctrtam wmlttlllrU "I'I'IY t:.I/ 111/J Mol•lrrC:tutllmrmt/lhlllllllun•1puttttr•l 
• 

... 


----~---~~ ~~~ ~ ~----------------~---------~------------

. ~~­

page4 



Ice Cream. 
continued from page 1 

cussed the business's progress from this point, a time when they needed another major in­fusion of capital. With this extra money, "we wanted to do business in a way that we could feel good about," said Cohen. 
So, instead of taking money from the typical investors, Ben & Jerry said that they "had an opportunity to make the com­munity owners of the company through an in-state public stock offering in Vermont." They felt that if the company did well, then so would the community, since community members would be directly involved. So, despite serious objections from their fmancial advisors, the two sold shares of the company to 1 out of every 100 town members through advertisements in the local newspaper, with a start­ing price of $126. 
With this capital in hand, the company blossomed, and has grown into the nationwide cor­poration that it is today. However, what has made Ben & Jerry's unique is how they have handled their success. 
"If we're going to be a social­ly responsible company," said Cohen, "what we should do is to give away as much money as possible." However, in looking at all of the foundations that were asking for fmancial assis­tance from the newly formed Ben & Jerry's Foundation, Ben & Jerry saw that every founda­tion was admirable and needed help. Discovering this, they be­gan to question the business world as a whole. 
"Our defmition of business is a combination of organized human energy, plus money, ~hich equ~ls power...the most powerful force in the world," 
MARY ~MERI ·0tmer 
:lppoinlmenb !luai/a6fe 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

said Cohen. In today's society, though, this huge power is mis­directed into one goal, financial profit. Since business is per­formed in such a narrow field of self-interest, the concern for the society as a whole is virtu­ally ignored, said Ben. 
Ben & Jerry's called for "a paradigm shift from main­stream to a new way which embraces Biblical values" through two basic changes in business. First, businesses need to redirect their mea­surements of success from mere financial profit to prosperity in both the fmancial and social fields. This change will allow corporations to see that, in their betterment of the community, they have not only helped others, but also them­selves. 
Secondly, business people everywhere need to "decom­partmentalize" their lives. No longer should "morals be left at the door," as they are today, said Cohen; instead, "business­es need to be value-led in terms of corporate direction." 
In their own business, Ben and Jerry have taken steps to reach this altruistic goal. They have increased the demand for rainforest harvests and used them in flavors such as "Rainforest Crunch" in order to decrease deforestation. 
"Chocolate Fudge Brownie" uses homemade brownies made in a bakery that employs homeless and underemployed workers. Franchises of Ben & Jerry's ice cream are also sold to non-profit 'social service agencies in locations such as Baltimore, Times Square, and Harlem. 
Fortunately, this type of busi­ness practice is becoming more common, said Cohen, since it is has become more popular to do so. This "true marketing" helps to solve the increasing level of problems in the world, while still boosting profits, but there is still much headway to be made. 
One major way that the U.S. government can help is to cut defense spending, said Cohen, which, at the present time, re­mains at the pre-cold war esti­mate of $300 million. By cut­ting this number in half, the government would be able to redirect funds into soon-to-be­cut social programs, all of which would drastically help the American welfare system. 
Ben & Jerry's have earned the Corporate Giving award in 1988 for donations to non-prof­it organizations with the estab­lishment of the Ben & Jerry's Foundation; also, in 1988, the two were named the U.S. Small Business Persons of the Year. 

The Notre Dame Band Blood Drive included this lucky participant. 
GREAT TEACHERS-. WANTED! 
The nation's leader in test preparation is seeking bright, enthusiastic teachers who are interested in part-time work and excellent pay. If you're a dynamic communicator and you had top scores on the GRE, GMAT, LSAT, MCAT, or SAT you may qualify to teach our highly acclaimed programs. Teacher auditions will be held April 24 at 6:30PM. Call Stacy TODAY at 272-4135 for more information. 





KAPLAN 
The answer to the test quest1on. 

....... -..._.:. --·-------......_..;o-...____..-.-..-.-...---..-...,.~..:...........-.. ,.....____ 
---~-----~------,---;-----.-;-. ----:-~..,----­
Wednesday, Aprill2, 1995 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Student expelled from Yale on forgery charges 
By BRIGliTE GREENBERG 
Associat~d Pr~ss 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 

Lon Grammer desperately wanted to go to Yale University. 1\s a mediocre student at an ob­scure community college, that would have seemed a long shot. But Grammer managed to get in anyway. 
Two years later, he was a month away from picking up an Ivy League diploma when police picked him up instead. 
Grammer's downfall came when he bragged to a former roommate about forging his transcripts, police said. 
The 25-year-old man was ex­pelled, and Yale is pressing lar­ceny charges, saying he stole two years' worth of a high­priced education from the school and the government. He owes $61,475 in grants and loans authorities said. 
"Yale admissions officers re­fused to discuss how they were duped. 
"Obviously, to get into Yale University the standards are very high," James Perrotti, as­sistant chief of campus police, said Tuesday. "He tried to show that he met those standards when in fact he didn't." 
Grammer refused to comment on the case, but his attorney, Norman A. Pattis, said he will fight the charges. 
Grammer arrived at Yale in 1993, transferring from Cuesta Community College in San Luis Obispo, Calif., where tran­scripts showed he had compiled nearly a straight-A average. He also presented Yale with an outstanding recommendation from Cuesta's dean of students and favorable letters from a po­litical science professor and sci­ence instructor. 

His high school record also was exemplary, with an excel­lent recommendation from the principal. 
But the grades were doc­tored, some of the recommen­dations were from people who didn't exist, and those who do exist say they never wrote them, according to court pa-

P R I N C I P L E S of S 0 U N D R E T I R EM E N T I N V EST I N G 
F 
or fast relief from the nagging ache of taxes, 
we recommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs are 
tax-deferred annuities designed to help build 
additional assets-money that can help make the 
difference between living and living well after your 
working years are over. 
Contributions to your SRAs are deducted from your salary on a pre-tax basis. That lowers your current taxable income, so you start saving on taxes right away. What's more, any earnings on your SRAs are also tax-deferred until you receive them as income. That can make a big difference in how painful your tax bill is every year. 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it.su 
As the nation's largest retirement system, we offer a wide range of allocation choices-from TIAA's traditional annuity, with its guarantees of principal and interest, to the seven diversified investment accounts of CREF's variable annuity. What's more, our expenses are very low, 0 which means more ofyour money goes toward improving your future financial health. 
To find out more, call our planning specialists at 1 800 842-2888. We'll send you a complete SRA information kit, plus a free slide-calculator that shows you how much SRAs can lower your taxes. 
Call today-it couldn't hurt. 

•Stmu)11n) c:l p,~,,.:, j,,,,.,mtt Ra11i~q Antl(V.'i.', 1994; Lipper Analytical Services, Inc., Lipp<r-Dirrf/tJr.,' Alul(VIittl! Da1t1, 1994 (Quarterly). CREF 
certificates More distributed by TIAA~CREF lndividu.,l and Institutional Services, Inc. For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call I 800-842-2733, ext. 5509 for a CREF prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 
pers. 
Cuesta's records show his 
real grade-point average was a 
C, and his high school in Con­
cord, Calif., told Yale that his 
transcripts, test scores and let­
ter from the principal were 
fakes. 
Grammer was caught when a 
detective from the Lebanon, 
N.H., police department con­
tacted campus police about a 
forged driver's license and reg­
istration on a leased Jeep. 
The vehicle was registered to 
John Miles, Grammer's former 
roommate in California. Miles, 
who had never been to 
Lebanon, N.H., told police that 
Grammer had bragged to him 
about getting into Yale with 
forged transcripts. 
In December, Grammer was 
indicted in New Hampshire on 
forgery charges in connection 
with the Jeep. New Hampshire 
police contacted Yale 'in Jan­
uary. 
At Yale, Grammer maintained 
a B average, his lawyer said. 
Some students said they weren't surprised by the turn of events, noting Grammer's back­ground seemed shady. Among other things, he claimed he had played minor-league baseball and was related to actor Kelsey Grammer. 
The young man is not related to the actor, Pattis said. Whether he ever played profes­sional baseball couldn't imme­diately be confirmed. 
"He was a very shady kind of kid. A lot of his stories didn't really match," said senior Michael Ciaschini. "One day, he would tell us he was in Mexico for three years, then he said he was in the Bahamas for three years. When someone lies to you all the time, you kind of lose respect for them." 
Perrotti said the forgeries Grammer used were very good, and the case has raised con­cerns at other institutions as well as Yale. 
"We tend to take things on faith," said Ted O'Neill, dean of admissions at the University of Chicago. "If something stands out as being likely to be untrue, we will probably discover that, but it is a system built on trust." 
Princeton University uncov­ered a similar scam in 1991 and expelled a student named James Hogue. The Ivy League school said Hogue enrolled un­der an alias in 1989. He fabri­cated his background, telling admissions officers he was self­schooled. 
He was accused of defrauding the university out of $21,000 in fmancial aid, and pleaded guilty to deception. 
Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price list! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 
55 E. Washington, Chicago, /L 60601 For a Fret 32-Pag~ Color CaJa/og Toll-Fret (800) 922-0096 FAX (312) 977-0248 lnttmtl Catalo[(at blip: llwww.sapuk.com/saptck 


--------~------~ ---~ ----··--;-:--,-,--,.--­


VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Wednesday, April 12, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Porter Viewpoint Editor.................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Sports Editor............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor....................Kris<a A. Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor.................................. Rob Finch Observer Matketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Pani Carson ControUer ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminima­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• DESIIJERATA 
Encyclical stresses human side of death penalty 
Today, I had planned to write about Clive Stafford Smith, a dedicated oppo­nent of the death penalty, who was scheduled to visit the Law School last Friday. However, Mr. Smith was unable to come. A part of me was disappointed; I had looked forward to hearing this esteemed young man discuss what I feel to be one of the most unjust facets of the American criminal justice system. How­ever. another part of me was relieved. You see, Mr. Smith's reason for cancel­ing was a stay of execution which had been granted to one of his clients, which mandated that he be in court that day. 
Kirsten Dunne 


Despite the fact that Mr_ Smith was unable to address us, I decided, on sec­ond thought, to mention him in today's article anyway. For his devoted fight against capital punishment is still rele­vant, especially in light of Pope John Paul ll's most recent encyclical, 
Euangelium Vitae. 
In this letter, issued only about two weeks ago, the Pope came forth with what some have deemed "his strongest denunciation of the death penalty in the 17 years of his papacy." Catholics Against Capital Punishment, Vol. 4, No. 1 (1995). Although he did not condemn all executions in all instances. he came very close to doing so when he said that execution is unjustified in all cases except those of "absolute necessity... Today, however, as a result of steady improvements in the organization of the penal system, such cases are very rare, if not practically nonexistent." 
Some church officials have read the Pope's encyclical as a "major doctrinal advance" which requires changes to the Catechism and which might eventually lead to a complete ban of capital punish­ment. "The possibility we now have of sentencing a murderer to life in prison without parole means the death penalty is almost never required to defend soci­ety", said Cardinal William H. Keeler, president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, adding that the Pope's new stance necessitated a rewriting of parts of the Catechism. In a similar vein, the Sanctity of Life Commission of the Brooklyn Diocese reflected that "(t)he death penalty offends against our belief in the sacredness of life, is an unjustified and extreme measure in our society, and visits intolerable evils and stigmas on our people in our day." 
As for myself, I have always been one to follow my heart, rather than let my convictions be dictated by what others say is right or wrong. And my heart has always told me that the death penalty is profoundly wrong. I have never needed the agreement of others to assure myself that this is so. My beliefs in this arena are strong. and the dissents of others do not detract from them in the least. 
However, I realize that some people feel much more confident about the pro­priety of their convictions when they see them mirrored in others. Indeed, there are those who place such value on what others say that their beliefs are actually molded by outside influences. This seems to be an especially pervasive phe­nomenon within the Catholic Church ­that is, its members will decide how they feel on an issue based upon the Church's official stance on that issue. And al­though this does not portray me, I understand and respect those to whom these descriptions apply. 
If you are such an individual -specifi­cally, if you have supported the death penalty in the past primarily because you have construed Church doctrine as sanctioning its use -I would urge you to think seriously about the Pope's latest encyclical. Although it does not con­demn the death penalty in a blanket manner, it certainly moves in that direc­tion, and without a doubt it decries the penalty's use in the vast majority of cir­cumstances. 

I certainly welcome the encyclical. I consider myself Catholic and am glad that more of my peers are realizing the injustice and inhumanity of the death penalty. However, as I mentioned before, it is not Church doctrine or printed words which assures me that capital punishment is wrong. Exactly what it is, I cannot say. But, I know that it has something to do with recognizing the human nature of the people that the death penalty affects, and especially the people that it kills. 
This is perhaps one reason I respect Clive Stafford Smith. He not only fights against the death penalty generally; he fights for the rights of each person affected by it. He gets to know them; he sees them as people. One man who became especially dear to Mr. Smith is Edward Earl Johnson, who was execut­ed in 1987. Smith wrote a remem­brance of Johnson, in which he devoted as much time to Johnson's personality and interests as he did to the facts sur­rounding his death. For example, he discussed how Johnson liked to play chess. He discussed how, shortly before his execution, Johnson comforted his young nephew, who became upset dur­ing one of his visits to the prison. He related how Edward Johnson thanked one of the commissioners at the prison for everything he had done for him, just hours before his execution. In short, Clive Stafford Smith demonstrated elo­quently that this man, his friend, was a human being like any other, and that what he had been through was some­thing that no human being should have to endure. 
Recently I have become friends with a death row inmate myself. And just when I thought I could not feel any more revolted by the death penalty, my feel­
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"When you drive men 
from the public arena, where debate is free, you send them to the cellar, where revo­lutions are born,"" 
-Wiiliam E. Borah 
ings against it increa.sed. My friend Dwayne Craig is only twenty years old. He has a two year old daughter whom he misses terribly. He likes to draw and listen to music and write. He is like many of us, except for the fact that he has been sentenced to death by his peers. I sometimes find it painful to write to him, for he seems so accepting of it all. No, he is not happy about his situation, but neither does he appear to see the injustice of it. But it is unjust. And the more we come to realize that 
'Indeed, there are those 
who place such value on what others say that their beliefs are actually molded by outside influences. This seems to be an especially per­vasive phenomenon within the Catholic Church -that is, its members will decide how they feel on an issue based upon the Church's official stance on that issue. 
the death penalty touches individual lives. like those of Edward Johnson and Dwayne Craig, the more we must neces­sarily fight for its abolition. 
Clive Stafford Smith relates that, as he tried to drive home following the execu­tion of Edward Johnson, he had to stop the car several times. Overwhelmed with tears, he wondered, "how. oh how, could they have done this to Edward?" Hopefully Pope John Paul ll's last encyclical foreshadows the day when "they" will not be allowed to do such a thing to anyone. 
Kirsten Dunne is a third-year law stu­dent . 
• DOONESSURY 
HeY, BAJ.I)Y/ 
PIHAT'~7He 
PtAL.ONMY 
8et1~ IT'5fDT WM!J57He 51Z£t:F 
6RAPEFRJJIT! ~_,.~__..,./ ((; 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
GeTMe A NE/AJ 
A1ATT~OI< 
IUHAV&MY 
CA~/UJRI<ER 
COU&OUT 
HeR& ANI? RJPYOlJI< UJNGS(JIT, 
OKAY~ 
I 

HI~MOTHC/?!5
UH... . A tiXAL. STRIP­§URE, •. /ff/?, ~R. RING K/1/. IWYBeU/3?
\ 
''I I o It I I I'' I I'' • It I I I I o • 


VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 12, 1995 
page 7 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Fake accent, rea/lack ofclass 
Dear Editor: country, senators should retain ly from the elected leaders of 
As co-presidents elect of the a certain decorum. With our national government. We Asian American Association, we increasing power comes an realize that he has made a pub­feel that we have a duty to de­even greater responsibility for lic formal apology; however, we nounce Senator Alfonse M. one's actions. feel that it was not sincere or D'Amato who openly insulted Senators do not only speak adequate. Furthermore, an .Judge Lance Ito on Don Imus's for themselves, but are also apology is only the first step in radio show in New York last supposed to represent and rectifying the situation. We Tuesday (April 4). Senator work for all people. which hope that his future actions will D'Amato used a fake accent includes Asian-Americans. reflect the lessons learned from that was reminiscent of old The Senator has thus effec­this painful experience. World War II Japanese villains. tively betrayed his constituents. Various organizations such as llis conduct was not only In addition, his history of pur­the Committee Against Anti­unnecessary but also an insult posefully and disrespectfully Asian Violence and the Asian to Judge Ito and all Asian­mispronouncing ethnic names American Legal Defense and Amerieans. and imitating ethnic accents Education Fund have voiced 
All people are entitled to their precedes him. Officials of sever­their opinions and protested opinions. However, the manner al Greek organizations criti­vehemently. As representatives in which he addressed his criti­cized the Senator for routinely of the Asian American eism of the judge was, in our mispronouncing the name of Association here at Notre eyes, inappropriate, demean­Senior Presidential advisor Dame, we are making the stu­ing, and unjust to all Asian­George Stephanopoulos (It dents aware of the situation. Americans. came out 'Steppin' ah-full-us'). In addition, we will be asking 
To use an nxaggerated Asian Across the country, our col­the students to sign a form let­accent to mock a man who is a lege campuses are appalled at ter reprimanding the actions of Ulird-generation Japanese­the example he is setting. the senator. By doing so, we American with no accent what­Actions such as his are precise­can collectively show our sup­soever is just plain ignorant. In ly why racism and unjustified port and make a united stand doing so. D'Amato is only pro­hatred towards minorities are against stereotypes of this sort. moting stflreotypes and show­still prevalent JAMES ADANIYA ing evflryone the depth of his The Asian-Americans of MICHELLE DUYONGCO bigotry and immaturity. today demand justice, equality, Co-Presidents of the Asian American 
As representatives of our and above all, respect, especial-Association 

Anyone can quote Bible passages 
Dear Editor: rooting one's personal agenda is a reprehensible 
Thank you for once again providing some act of deception at best. This centuries old tactic lunch time amusement. The juxtaposition exhib­has only been effective when backed by an ited on page 9 of the Thursday, April 6, edition of Inquisition and the fear of death. The Observer was truly a delight to read and put Unfortunately, people like Ms. Bonk still insist a smile on our faces. on screaming as loud as they can from the tallest 
In the one corner was the Sir James Dewar rock they can find, blindly quoting their favorite quote "Minds are like parachutes. They only Bible verses in the hopes of. . . what? Scaring funetion when they are open." In the other was a the devil out of us? wonderful example of brimstone and hellfire Well Ms. Bonk, have we got news for you. It pontification submitted by Ms. Bonk in the letter won't work! You don't know us, have never met to the editor titled "Hepent the Sin of Supporting us, and haven't the faintest, foggiest idea of who Gays, Lesbians." we are. But you've got us booked on the next 
It certainly seems obvious (at least to us and cruise down the river Styx. Why? Sir .James Dewar) that if Ms. Bonk's mind was a And since we're quoting the Bible anyway, parachute and were to dive from an airplane... doesn't anyone remember the one about Jesus well it wouldn't be pretty. saying "He that is without sin among you, let him 
What gall, arrogance and superficial superiori­first cast a stone." We've always liked that one. ty she exhibited in her sweeping and vehement ROB DEHAAN condemnation of such a large segment of the STELIOS VOUZOUKAS ND/SMC community! The use of the Bible in pro-Graduate Students 

ND Encounter: Weekend encounter with -what? 
Dear Editor: 
I have recently observed a disturbing trend on campus. Participants of NDE surrounded my friends and I while we attempted to enjoy a quiet dinner conversation. Our table and indeed our very conversation became so overwhelmed that the only recourse we had was to move. However. our new attempt at conversation was thwarted once again as the NDE followers took to song. 
Now, please, do not get me wrong. I enjoy a good bit of song myself and have been known to indulge in a verse or two at din­ner. Even the Glee Club impromptus in South Dining Hall pro­vide a pleasant intrusion, but the fervor with which these souls took to song disturbed me. As male and female took turns standing and singing, I clearly saw a plastered smile upon each of their strangely glowing faces. These students. who never In their lives stood to sing at dinner. were now, in front of hun­dreds of people, singing out happily in their own little world. 
Once they fmally finished those smiles never left their faces. A warm murmur filled their tables and the smiles always stayed. I stared in wonder while they departed with a carefully orches­trated hug session. Chills rushed down my spine when I looked into their strangely elated eyes. Slowly after viewing three such encounters, each with the same chilling rituals, I realized what I was witnessing. 
I beard a word in my mind, cult. 
What could make seemingly sane, intelligent individuals act in such a strange manner? Do you plan to become glassy eyed fol­lowers singing a wiener song? Usten to yourselves. Is this a rational action? Would you do this normally or did something possess you? What happens in the weekend? As I understand, NDE stands for Notre Dame Encounters. Encounters with what? 
When a friend of mine who attended an NDE retreat spoke to me of its draw, he described an emotional atmosphere in which people share personal information and touching accounts. Throughout this process a strange aura of love fills the room. After sessions filled with emotion and love, the dogma begins to flow. However, being a Catholic myself. I will only assume the dissemination of beliefs follows Catholic teachings. Thus the issue I find troublesome is the peculiar and foreign world that NDE or any cult experience creates. 
I understand that these weekends foster a new sense of love and happiness. Everyone must in one way or another carve out their own little world, their own happy place. Faith and Jove can create a beautiful world to live in, but understand those for yourself and create your own happiness, your own world. 
And wipe those silly smiles off your faces . 
EVAN SOCKALOSKY Fourrh-y~ar architectul't' 
• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 
So good it makes your toes tingle • • • 
For twenty-one years, one month, and twenty-one days, I have been waiting and still no Maya Angelou. I don't understand. Will I ever get to hear "You may write me down in history with your bitter twisted lies. You may ground me in the very dirt, but still like dust I rise. Does my sassiness upset you? Why are you beset with gloom? 'Cause I walk like I got oil wells pumping in my living room. Just like moons and like suns, with the certainty of tides. Just like hopes springing high, still I'll rise." 



Cristiane Likely 

Sigh. What is up, people? It must be a conspiracy! Canceled for the second time! This is like a one in a million occurrence. Somebody somewhere doesn't want Maya Angelou to come, and I want to know why? 
Does she have some secret agenda that someone doesn't want our virgin delicate ears to hear? Will she spark new and vibrant feelings in us that will make us more receptive to the humanity of us all? What is it? Someone please tell me! 
I've been waiting since October, and, by some miracle of God, I got two tickets from a gracious professor. I waited, and I anticipated. I even planned on walking up to her and saying something pro­found and enlightening that she would want to put in her next book. I made plans to be there like two hours ahead of time so maybe I could catch her before the lecture. I was ready, but noooooo, it was canceled, and I was crushed. I should have known it wasn't meant to be. I wanted it too much! 
No one understands the connection me and Maya have. It's not a black female thing but a poetic thing. See, someday I would like to call myself a poet, and who better to admire than the best of the best. Walt Whitman?!? Robert Frost?!? Shakespeare?!? Phooey! Maya Angelou is tops on my list! 
Maya has managed to sustain her tal­ent and popularity during an age where poets and their work become more and more obscure and just plain horrible by the minute. She has managed to main­tain grace in tragedy and poise in defeat better than anyone I know, or hope to know (except my mother, of course). 
Sometimes I wonder about some peo­ple. It sends shivers down my spine when I read poetry that just plain stinks, and no one with any sense of style can make it past the half-way mark of a poem that should have went down with the Titantic. 
Maya's poetry just flows like air. It's smooth and catches you right smack dab in the heart, so you can feel it all the way to your fingers and toes. That my friends, is what poetry is about. If you can't feel it, it's probably not wo_rth. 
reading. 

Her autobiography I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings is absolutely en­thralling. I saw bits of my life in it, and I'm sure anyone who takes the time to read it will get the same impression. It's about soul and whether you live by it or not. 
Soul is not about R&B, and it's not about being Black or White, it's a lot deeper than just skin color. We're all born with soul. It's one of God's many gifts to us, and a lot of us are unwilling to touch upon it because living with soul is not a popular thing. Maya, she wakes up your soul just a little bit. Enough for you to feel it. 
I remember last year when the Arsenio Hall Show was still on the air, and, during his winding down months, he had Maya Angelou on the show. I remember it like yesterday. 
This woman captured the entire audi­ence with just her presence. Now that's something! That can't be said about too many people. It can't even be said about our President or Madonna. She's one of those people who never says any­thing meaningless or useless. Even her voice and the way she carries herself tells a lot about what kind of person she is. 
She recited "Still I Rise" and I was so moved, I cried. Well, I also cried when I lost my favorite pencil, but still ... I was moved. What I like most about Maya is she has a realness to her. She doesn't seem to try to be something she isn't. A lot of us fall into that trap! Can I get an A-MEN?!? 
' •• -~ • "( ., ', • J ' \ ; • 

'., 
Man, I wish she were coming. I'll hold on to my two tickets and hope she comes. I would miss class for Maya Angelou. I would pay money to see Maya Angelou. I would miss ER for Maya Angelou. Heck yes, I'm serious!! 
BUT, there is one person who can compare to Maya, and that is His Airness himself, Michael Jordan! Maya is something I can relate to on a real level, but Michael, Michael is pure magic, and everybody loves magic! Any doubts? Three words: Knick, 55 points!! Thank you very much! 
I've never had the chance to see him in person, and God forbid the day to come when I do, because Mom will have to fly up and bail her darling daughter out of jail after I am overcome with delusions and run onto the court and grab Michael and tried to take him home with me! I would take Organic Chemistry to have a conversation with Michael Jordan. Notice, I didn't say pass .... 
I digress. Anyway, I beg of you, the powers that be, it is well worth trying once again to bring Maya Angelou to Notre Dame. In her own words, "Did you want to see me broken? Bowed head and lowered eyes? Shoulders falling down like teardrops, weakened by my soulful cries ... You may shoot me with your words, you may cut me with your eyes, you may kill me with your hate fullness, but still, like air, I'll rise." 
Cristiane J. Likely is a junior computer science major. She lives in Pasquerilla West and can be reached over e-mail at: clikely@artin. helios. nd. edu 
.....,...,...............,..........,...,...,-------,..__,..........~---------~----­
---~ 



ACCENT
pageS Wednesday, Aprill2, 1995 

• BOOKS, BOOKS, BOOKS 
Survival Guides for ' 
but the naked truth is that he's not nearly as funny as he
Naked at the Interview 

thinks. The information he is attempting to impart is oftenJohn Wiley & Sons, 1994 lost in his more fervent efforts to make sure that he live up to$10.95 
his introductory boast, namely that "the book is written in a 
tone and with content that college grads can relate to and find

Naked 
"Without being too Freudian, being 'naked' is a fear... shared enjoyable (if you like parenthetical quips mixed in with impor­by job seekers. Many have the dreaded dream of walking into tant advice and information)." He could stand to take a bit ofan interview without clothes. No, not without the proper advice from his audience: fewer quips and more information,clothes, without any clothes ... buck naked!!! Concepts covered Burton!

by this text should clad you with the confidence that knowledge In general, however, "Naked at the Interview" does containof successful job search behaviors will bring," writes Burton some helpful advice for job searchers. Of particular interest isJay Nadler in the introduction to his book, "Naked at the the ten-page list of various job fields and potential job op­Interview." While Mr. Nadler's book might at least provide a portunities within these fields which is included in the chapterpotential job searcher with the fashion basics (maybe under­entitled "Career Vocabulary Inventory and Goal Grid." Thewear and socks), "Naked at the Interview" is defmitely not go­format of the book is also one of its attributes. Nadler con­ing to send you off in a three-piece suit. 

cludes each chapter with a summary of the information pre­The various chapters of "Naked at the Interview" are set up sented in the chapter. 
as a series of quizzes meant for the reader to take. Nadler dis­If you are looking for a basic, short, and simple guide to aidcusses such topics as job searches, career vocabulary and 

you in the dreaded job-search process, "Naked at the
goals, resumes, interviews, phone, fax, and voice mail eti­Interview" is an option. If, however, you are looking for aquette, and recruiting. The book offers ideas concerning where more in-depth and sophisticated guide to job searching, inter­and how to begin a job search, step-by-step plans for con­viewing, and resume-making, you might want to shop around, structing and focusing a resume, and several sample resumes. 

because Burton Jay Nadler's "Naked at the Interview" discuss­My major complaint with the book is this: Nadler thinks he's es only the bare essentials.-Sarah Cashore
a happening sixty-five-year-old '90's guy, witty, funny, and hip, office birthday card. 
Entry Level Life: 
Finally, post-graduation social
A Complete Guide To Masquerading As A Member Of The Real World worries can be calmed by Zevin'sBantam Books, 1994 examination of real world social$8.95 
sophistication, with helpful hints to wine selection, dating tips, and theFrom a step by step diagram detailing the complete workings of a Xerox copy genesis of the dinner party. Zevinmachine to a listing of helpful hints to successfully sucking up to your future 
also provides his unsuspecting
employer, Dan Zevin's "Entry-Level Life: A Complete Guide to Masquerading as a reader with a vivid detail of realMember of the Real World" chronicles the concerns of real life living. In this world sexuality, complete with acomedic examination of life after keg parties and Organic Chemistry, Zevin explores table of erotic aides. 
the ins and outs of finding an apartment, landing a job, climbing the corporate lad­Zevin's analysis of the real worldder, and a new sophisticated social life based on cocktail parties and dinner dates. 
is both entertaining and relative toAccording to Zevin, the most pertinent issues in selecting a city revolve around 
the experiences of any recently
not only employment opportunities, good public transport and bike lanes, but also graduated Generation X-er. Hip,the availability of good bagels, populations of dreaded baby boomers, and regions 
young, and long-haired, Zevin
~here cheap beer and caffeinated beverages flow freely. This section also offers 
examines every facet of inde­
numerous tactics in both equipping your new lair and eliminating unwanted guests, pendent living. However, if you're from the multilegged arthropod to two-legged door-to-door Jehovahs witness. 
in need of serious guidance in re­Zevin details a number of necessary real world skills, from faking a resume to gard to resume compilation, in­finding your dream career, including a simple four step method to successfully 
terview preparation, and em­
schmoozing your way to the top. 
ployment opportunities, find another handbook as much of his advice has littleBut Zevin's insightful and humorous analysis doesn't stop there, but carries you application to most true to life scenarios(I doubt that one would ever use a mad libthrough the _workings of the corporate hierarchy with detailed profiles of potential format to concoct a cover letter or cite Jackie Onassis as a reference on a resume).
bosses and tips on how to manage each accordingly. He also includes useful infor­Nevertheless, Zevin's insights and perspectives are humorous and paint the realmation in regard to on-the-job skills, such as how to look busy and how to sign the world in an entertaining, less-intimidating light. -Amy Crawford 




Medical School Admissions 
Mustang Publishing Co., 1994 $12.95 
Medical school. These two words control the life of many pr_emed students today. They break into a cold sweat as they thmk of the 39,999 other qualified applicants competing with them for about 16,000 spots per year. 
What scores do I need on the MCAT? How hard is it to get into this particular school? What will they ask me at my inter­view? 
The third revised edition of "Medical School Admissions" answers these questions and more. Written by three recent medical school graduates, "Medical School Admissions" addresses every aspect of the process in a frank and honest manner. 
The strong point of the book, however, is its optimistic tone. Many students take on a pessimistic outlook toward their chances of being accepted. The last thing these students want to be reminded of is how hard getting in is going to be. The au­thors of this book choose instead to encourage students to believe in themselves. 
In the introduction, for example, the authors offer this piece of advice: "We encourage premedical students to apply with confidence, and we suggest ways they can properly market their strengths." 

"Market their strengths?" you ask. What am I? A piece of merchandise? Well, the simple truth is that the medical school admissions process is all about marketing -the marketing of one's self. 
"Medical School Admissions" attacks this problem by ad­dressing the five aspects of the admissions process most im­portant to success. After beginning with a chapter on premed­ical preparation, the authors move to offering some advice on power techniques for higher grades and how to make the most of the MCAT, including some test-taking strategies for when test time comes around. Then they take the reader through the application process step-by-step, including a checklist to follow while applying. 
The authors then turn to the two areas which cause the most nightmares for premeds -the essay and the interview. By pro­viding a sample list of interview questions and fifty complete successful essays, the authors stimulate the applicants' creative abilities and offer some basis for personal comparison. 
Thus, this book offers a good mix of the practical and the ideal. While admitting that getting into a medical school is not the easiest thing in the world to do, the authors strive to get the point across that it is not impossible. -Pete Rubinas 

Trashproof Resumes 
Random House, 1995 $9.95 
Unbelievable but true. There is more to life than Resume Expert Plus! "Trashproof Resumes: Your Guide to Cracking the Job Market," written by Timothy D. Haft and put out by those folks over at The Princeton Review, guides you through what could b~ one of the biggest nightmares of every twenty-something's life-the resume-in a mce, step-by-step fashion. It offers advice ranging from "Be conceited" to "Don't worry, be happy," throwing in pep talks here and there, just when you need them most. He even gives you some direction if you fall into that "My life is zippo" catego­ry: "If you think you haven't accomplished anything in life, odds are you don't know yourself very well" (page 7). 
Unfortunately, "Trashproof Resumes" does suggest that you have some sort of answer to that dreaded question, "What do you want to do with your life?" Luckily enough, Mr. Haft does offer some help in this department. Chapter I is one of those ~~]If assess~ent sections .~here you get to make lots of lists about your activities and 
Most Cherished Values. Chapter 4 was a personal favorite: Power verbs! Halt sug­gests that you vary your language as much as possible. Don't be afraid to use words like_ "inspired," "pioneered," "spearheaded," "conceptualized" and "revolutionized." Senously thoug~. you will never realize how much you've got going for you until you read through th1s book. "Trashproof Resumes" really wants you to sell yourself. 
Mr. Haft quotes a lot of recruiters as to their likes and dislikes (fancy fonts are a big no-no). He surveyed over a hundred career counselors and recruiters when he researched this book. He also includes a bunch of sample resumes, cross-refer­enced by majors, fields and experience levels. Little comments are attached to each resume, highlighting its strengths and key elements. There's even a great chapter on cover letters. 

Throw out your Resume Expert Plus disk and get creative on your own. 

.. ~ t!'llj:J(~®.....l.. 11!'>1-ll?.tl~(lu; (;,4 :::<":!~l.u!tt
"Trashproof Resumes" proves that you 
t¥<".t>$;~('!: t•W~ t~ l<i'>'f v.>~<~,fSitl:l.fW: rt 
W(;,':;flr~{lf.a tm«m-.> 

are more than a piece of paper and is 
·~(<ttl::~~~ f~n ·~~t ~(1:(!1,: ~ fo.O:H W. >)v~IO::<R>\-1;' (;~~::: n.;..<(!f~~ l#i:t!' !tJ((««.'w.I:Y.i!$1-"r.,.l~t:'*
very clear in showing you how to present 
•~to.')!I~<~J <ll'lo<f(:.I;)VI'lof~~ltfl.l:ffl
yourself that way. Remember, "Like a 
tr"'<~ wnn1 <'.rt~l!r~ 4>•4 ~~?' 

sculpture in progress, your resume is an emerging work of art that must be prod­ded, molded, and caressed to obtain the , -~->. desired result" (page 21). And anyhow, "'~~--~,
1

how could you resist a book that recom-•t~ . '' 
mends that you give prospective employ-""'•""'""'~"" ~· ers lots of C.R.A.P.O.L.A.? (Creativity, Resourcefulness, Attitude Persistence Organization, Luck, and Assertiveness). -Krista Nannery ' ' 

-----------------------~--------------~~~.~ .~.--~~.~.·~,~~------------~~~ 
• I Itt t' 1 I I I/ f tIt/ I It 

ACCENT

Wednesday, April 12, 1995 



he Real World' 

How to Survive Without your Parents' Money 
VIllard Books, 1994 
$9.00 
For those of you who really don't want to think about the impending onset of reality, a.k.a. the_job s~arch, Geoff Martz's gentle guide, "How to Survive Without Your Parents' Money," will ease you into the race while causing a minimal amount of pain and panic. 
·Any book containing an introduction lauding graduate school as "professional procrastination" can only be described as reader-friendly. Martz's humor conveys a sense of camaraderie with the timid student nearing the end of a college career. By easing into more serious dis­cussion of the do's and don'ts of the search, the author makes his instructional guide feel like the advice from a low-key, understanding older brother. 
The body of Martz's book doesn't read with the ease and pleasure of his short introduction, but this is only a result 
• of the transition to solid information. He focuses on the benefits of a campus career center and encourages its use; he also spends ample time stressing the (extreme) essen­tials of resumes and cover letters ("NO TYPOS"-no, real­ly?). Although he does spend a lot of time discussing many topics and rules of thumb which really go without saying, he also answers many basic questions. He clarifies com­mon confusion regarding etiquette and faxing resumes (generally, don't), leaving voice mail me.ssages ~ith prospective employers (generally, do), and usmg overmght mail to make an impression. This guide stands above the fray because it _goes one step further than simply advising on job hunt techniques. Martz focuses on issues that are often ignored in such pub-

· • T~fiC.,tty 
........ 

·-c-. ',.._
··!.no­
u........,~~ ....... 
..,,, .... ,.,f>,•.HI,..•If/k...,!

• r....... 
......,..•• , • ......u.....6

,./l~·i\

•flndfttt•lob 
JAMH D.60RDON Ill 
Law School: A Survivor's Guide 
HarperPerennial, 1994 $10.00 
Ever wonder what the first year of law school might be like? 
"Remember those horror movies in which somebody wearing a hockey mask terrorizes people at a sum­mer camp and slowly and carefully slashes them all into bloody little pieces? That's what the first year of law school is like. Except that it's worse because the professors don't wear hockey masks, and you have to look directly at their faces." Or so describes James D. Gordon III in his witty yet informative "Law School: A Survivor's Guide." 
Gordon, a professor at Brigham Young Law School, reviews the best and worst law schools in the country and provides tips for getting in. He gives and insider's view on the daily life of a law student, including detailed sched­ules of sleeping through an 

The New Rules ofthe Job Search Game 
Bob Adams Inc., 1994 $10.00 
It seems unlikely that reading a concise paperback could offer any real solutions to mastering the job search process but Jackie Larson and Cheri Comstock offer some concrete suggestions for doing so in their book "The New Rules of the Job Search Game: Why Today's Managers Hire and Why They Don't." 
"For every 1000 resumes we review, 80 get an interview and six receive an offer." With statistics like this on the first page, applicants may feel compelled to read further. The authors, who serve as corporate recruiters for a large company, immediately present facts about today·~ job mar­ket and offer their own fool-proof method for findmg one. 
Their suggestion, the Focus Method, recommends active­ly pursuing a specific job instead of wait.ing for personal connections to come through or browsmg through the want ads. Their approach is highly intense and they repeatedly comment that a job won't find you, you must find the job. . .. 
Small businesses present the best JOb opportumties. lfecause personal contacts are so important here, the authors stress finding names and establishing personal contacts within the business. The book offers an entire chapter on phone interviews; an appendix even includes phone scripts for all situations. 
Definitely the most helpful facet of "The New Rules of the Job Search Game" is the practical examples it includes. There are countless sample interviews, conversations, resumes and cover letters, with guidelines for the effective and prepared applicant to create his own. 
Graphs and statistics provide insight into the job market lications-how to survive while you're search­ing, how to deal with taxes, credit cards, and rent, the implications of "taking the year off," and how to head for success once a job has actually been secured. 
This book is effective in that it entertains as it informs. As Martz focuses on the core in­formation, though, some attempts at humor are downright unneces­sary (bordering on annoying). The sidebars are. the most interesting part of the book-but the random recipes were a bit much. The success stories, though, will inspire a glimmer of hope in even the most established pessimist. 
Essentially, this book is a pep talk in print. While sup­porting his advice with anecdotes of real people and their experiences, he also assures that failures and setbacks are all a part of the process and can be overcome. It is com­fort and assurance that Martz primarily seeks to convey. as he constantly stresses that his readers inherently pos­sess what employers most desire-youth and enthu­
siasm.-Aimee Garbinson 
alarm, stumbling into class 
with Styrofoam cups of cof­
fee, consuming a nutrition­
deficient lunch consisting 
of Ding Dongs, Cheetos, 
and Coke, and taking 
unwelcome but inevitable 
naps in the library. 
Describing a typical first 
year class, Gordon writes: 
Civil Procedure. Nobody Understands Civil Procedure. To make mat­ters worse, the professor is a space cadet, only occa­sionally coming within the earth's gravitational pull. The musical theme from The Twilight Zone keeps running through your mind. Dee dee dee dee, dee dee dee dee ......... You write on your paper: This is your brain -0. This is your brain in Civil Procedure: Any ques­tions? 
He compares the three 
and the best ways to take advantage of any individual strengths. Case stud­ies allow the reader to relate to fellow applicants while fol­lowing the applica­tion process through to completion. 
Some discouraged graduates may find this book somewhat frustrating however, because of its occa­sionally annoying confidence. Poems by Eleanor Roosevelt and William Jennings Bryan are periodical­ly inserted to inspire the reader. One sec­tion is even titled years of law school with kinds of rocks. 

The first year is "Igneous: You are on fire." The second year is "Metamorphic," for you are dramatically changed from all of the pressure. And the third year is "Sedimentary ... Yawn." He then continues to jokingly state that one would become fossilized staying in law school any longer and presents the faculty as proof for his prediction. 
In this extremely humor­ous look at the intense and zany world of law school, Gordon presents his inside perspective on exams, fac­ulty, and careers. Anyone thinking of attending law school should read it. If nothing else, you'll acquire a collection of lawyer jokes to share with your friends.-Christy Kenny 

"How to Turn a No into a Yes." The guidelines do seem concrete and helpful, however, and may prove valuable to an applicant with little practical job-hunting experience. 
Anyone unable to read La~son .and Co~nstock.'s book should note their most emphatic pomt that IS mentiOned at least a dozen times: Superior communication skills with persistence and charm are the most important w~apons any applicant can use. Periodic phone calls to busmesses are the best way to indicate interest and open a door that has formerly been shut. 
Granted, this book remains somewhat optimistic, .but considering today's job market, who couldn't use a httle hope? -Ashleigh Thompson 
page 9 

• TOFU, TOFU, TOFU 

Need job, 
will travel 
I
t took her four weeks before she found a resume objective she was happy with. And then it took fifteen seconds for her to real­ize her objective had absolutely nothing to do with the job for which she was applying. And the job she was applying for? Well, it had absolutely nothing to do with anything she wanted: to do or, for that matter, anything she had ever even thought about doing in the first place. 
Krista Nannery 

It took three months for Accent Editor her to create that resume and less than a minute for someone else was to tell her exactly what was wrong with it. 
It took her two weeks to find the perfect interview suit, only to learn that not only was her skirt too short for banking and finance ( 17" as opposed to 19"), but it was the wrong color too. 
It took her one whole day of interviews with that company to get another whole day of interviews with different people from the same company. And all those different people at that one company needed exactly one lousy piece of paper to tell her she was not what they were looking for. (But they promised to keep her on file.) 
All she ever wanted to do was win at Instant Lotto. Was that really asking too much? Why couldn't it be eas~? Why couldn't the Publisher's Clearmg House van roll up to her front door and hand her the $10 million today? Why couldn't a long lost coincidentally filthy-stinking-rich relative die a sudden, trag­ic death, leaving her with enough money to put her through graduate school for the rest of her life? Why didn't MTV want her for "The Real World"? There were no easy answers. 
Her parents were no help at all. "Do what you feel is best," they said. "Go with your heart," they told her. "But make sure you take lots of business and computer classes and have a job when you graduate. Oh, and by the way, we're selling the house, buying a Winnebago and traveling cross-country for the rest of our lives. We Hope you weren't planning on living at home. Don't v•orry, you can have the Pinto. It just needs a little work. And hey, did you pay your car insurance yet?" 


There were just too many acronyms in her life at the moment. The LSAT, the GMAT and the GRE (which one to take?); "ER" (missed it again the other night); GPA (not very high); the MLA Handbook (everyone should have one); the E.U. (paper due next week); ARCO (one more test-prep book and she'll scream); BMW (will she ever have one?); and AT&T (forgot to pay the phone bill once again). It was all too much. 
So she trashed her resume and rewrote her objective. The simpler the better she figured. "A job with lots of travel, no acronyms neces­sary" was how the new one read. Experience? None. Internships? Nonexistent. Related Courses? Few, if any. 
She made her own categories and pretend­ed like she was playing M*A*S*H, the way she used to when she was a kid. An apartment, Harrison Ford, a BMW, Bora Bora or maybe the Alps, trashy romance novelist, 3 kids and a canary. It would be perfect. 
Needless to say, the folks over at the Big 6 weren't impressed. The different people at the company didn't even want to interview her the second day. And they certainly weren't keeping her resume on file, in case of future openings. Their loss though. Guess they just don't recognize creativity when they see it. Besides, with all the money she saved from not taking standardized tests, maybe she could win at Instant Lotto. 
Krista Nannery is The Observer's Accent Editor. Her columns appear every Wednesday when she's not playing the Powerball Lottery. 
-------------~~----­
I I I It' • I' I'' 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday April 15, 1995 
• BASEBALl .ill BOOKSTORE. BAsKETBAI.L RESULTS 
Irish explode on Illini, 15-4 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
Spans Writer 
The hits just kept on coming. 
And coming, and coming. 
The Notre Dame baseball team put on a hitting clinic Tuesday, courtesy of the Illinois pitching staff, en route to a 15­4 pasting of the Illini. 
The Irish pounded out 18 hits, led by sophomore Mike Amrhein with four. A single in his first at-bat extended Amrhein's hitting streak to 14 games. 
But the fireworks for the third baseman came in the 
sixth inning, when he knocked a grand slam of the scoreboard in left. 
"It's been a while since I've had that feeling," Amrhein said of the homer, his second of the year. "But I just tried to stay focused. You have to re­member that you can't hit a home run in every at-bat." 
Evidently, teammate Ryan Topham listened to Amrhein's advice, because he hit a home run in every other at-bat. 
The junior took the first pitch he saw Tuesday over the wall in left center, scoring Craig DeSensi and Amrhein. After doubling in the second and walking in the third, Topham lifted a two-run shot in the fifth. 

"I was feeling pretty good up there today," Topham said. "I can't lie, the second one was really helped by the wind." 
Topham tied a school record with seven RBI, and Amrhein had five. 
"We need to have our middle guys drive in runs to beat good teams," caoch Paul Mainieri said. "It was good to see Topham and Amrhein come through in the clutch." 
Sophomore starter Darin Schmalz also shone after a shaky two-inning outing last week against Bowling Green. 
"It was great to see Darin do so well after a less than stellar outing last week," Mainieri said. "He threw a lot of strikes. He works fast so he's a great guy to have going when bad weather is looming." 
Schmalz went six innings, al­lowing four hits and an un­earned run. He struck out eight and walked just two. 
On deck is Big Ten leader Purdue. 
"Purdue is really playing great right now," Mainieri says of the Boilermakers, who have won five of their last seven. "We're going to respond with crafty left-hander Gregg Henebry." 
..i;[iilfi'.·· 

arba(s Revenge def. It's the one that Say .•. 21-7 ott B~ccellato Teenage Fan Club def. Peace People 21­
i.Voo Doo Freaks def. Unlawful Presence 21-12 4Kelth K6rowski 'and his Shouting, •• def. S-Pack 21-18 L.,.Keep your·Pink Triangles out of bur House def. 5 Guys 2 
Strarght for Gland Smack 21-11 ij~rad S:~~dents Fpn't Jump def. T Tub T ae 21-12 i.FUse $hd Penetrate def. 5 Guys who Still Share a 
Thlghmaster 21-4 ~mofv1ornii'1$J Woul~~ef. Five Underfjlx 21-6 "'Total Conciousness def. Clef'lcs of St. Viator 2H6 ,.Q,N.O.D def. Hot Lunch 21-lO ~~rrTral~.def•. GoofGod,)t's Raining 3's 21-l4? Guys with a Better Shot than Digger def. You're Cute 
·ret's Go 21-1 >.furious def. 5 Nude Anatomically Correct Greek ..• 21-16 ·~Team 281 def. · Leckunsamarsch 21-19 ...:Kilbs and the Amazing Technlcolor Hair def. The Big Earl 
Basketball Explosion 21-12 ~Wegr8-or-Tost def. Fred 33-31 ~ccE def. Flghtln' Wookles 21-7 .,.4 Guys and a Girl def. Kato Kaelin Club 21-10 ...auster High Man 6.. the Peanut •.• def. Team 444 21-18 ..,.The Mookle Blaylocks def. Cowboy Junkies 21-7 ;,.Jordan Woulda Played with Us But.•. def. Florida ilnternatlonal 21-:11 ;..Ezekiel 25:17 def. Sabbaticals 21-7 -Bungalungus Ill def. Royale with Cheese 21-8 
•.,?'.l;illueba(lers def. The LaUipops b!;l forflet ~ln Memory of PhlLou def. Pentatonlcs by forfiet -When vs. Serial Kllla rescheduled ...Mean ~eople Suck vs. Big Blue 6.. Gold rescheduled :.:Pink Sky in the Morning vs. MacKenzie. , ..rescheduled 
NOTE: See page 11 far more Bookstore scores. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Bridget's • Open 8:00 · 3:00 
Open-Tues-
Wed -Shady Elaine 
Thurs • 
Closed Fri & Sat 
Open Monday • Specials 
HAPPY EASTER! 
HEADSTONE CIRCUS April29 
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$ Are you going to read those things again? I think not. 2323·2342 Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard 
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK· FAST. 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL "OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60. FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME· SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA· NEE, 219-n3-2034. 
Jayne, check your E-mail. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost: Set of keys on a soccer key­chain. If you found them or returned them to a lost and found please call 4-1456. 
If anyone found a pair of glasses in LaFun (although! it could have been anywhere on campus) last week (4/5 or 4/6) in ablack flip· open case (by the TV somewhere) I desperately need them back. They are tawny. oval-shaped frames by prodesign. Finals are coming up and I can't read without themlll (219) 272-1n8 
Found: Ring on 4th floor Stanford 
during the weekend of April 1st. 
Call Scott at 2003 to claim. 
Found: faded blue Irish cap. Looks pretty scummy-must be significant. Found at McClure's car wash on Edison and Ironwood. Rudy 233· 4008 
WANTED 
Starting at $12/hrl The Princeton is looking for people to teach our test preparation courses. If you've earned a high score on the GMAT, MCAT, LSAT or GRE and would like to work 6·10 hrs per week, con­tact us at: (800)865-n37 
Get paid to play Segal Looking for On-Campus Rep for next year. Call Michelle, 1-800-783-4237 X326. 
SENIORS-Looking for sales career option? Must be able to motivate self and others. Health minded and money motivated are pluses. Call273·5110. 
AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN BIG $$$ + FREE WORLD TRAVEL (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII. ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929­4398 ext. C1082. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL lAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR lAKE PlACID 
1-800-786-8373 
AlASKA SUMMER JOBS • Very High Earnings Potential with over 8,000 openings! Students work on fishing vessels and in onshore can­neries. No exp. necessary. Male/Female. Room/Board & Transportation often free. Call Student Employment Services for Directory. (206)545-4155 ext A55841 
ND/SMC student needed to babysit in South Bend for 8 weeks this summer. Must have excellent refer· ences, love kids and like to have fun. Call 6-9 pm, 708·524-9386. 
I need a ride to Veisha! Please 
call Connie at x360411 
FOR RENT 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO: For lease, 2 bd., 2 ba. furnished unit, Alarm system. Avail. June 1st. Call: (818)441-1275 
••••••..**NOTICE***********'*** 
If you are interested in living at 
Turtle Creek next year, call Chris 
at 273-1399 as soon as possible. 
Rent NOW for Fall Semester· Completely remodeled home in great student neighborhood. Available to 5 students • 5 private bedrooms, 2 full baths, washer and dryer. large rec loom. Your own personal frat house. CALL NOW 2n-os35 
2 BDRM House. Wash/Dry 
Fireplace. Porch $520/mo. + util. 
Grad. student pre!. 232·6079 
OAK HILL aprtmnt. FOR RENT 2 1/2 BDRM. 2 BTH 219/273-6993 
NEEDED: 1 bdrm apt to sublease or roommate to share apt. this sum­mer call 284-5065 Wicker Park (Chicago) apt to 
sublet. May-Aug. 3 br. NO alums 
seeking fellow NO tenants call Bridget 708·895·6918 
I'm looking to sublet for the summer at a house or an apartment near campus. Please call Tommaso ASAP at 4·1112. 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS 232·2595 
Professional gals at Castle Pt. need roomies, no undergrads. 271-0801. 
ATTENTION: Summer School Students! Sublet our College Park Condo June 1st· Aug. 1st 2BR. 
2BA Call272·6713 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: OAKHILL CONDO 
FIRST LEVEL UNIT. TWO BOA, 2 
BATH, FIREPlACE, ALL APPLI­
ANCES. FINISHED BASE­
MENT WITH 2 BDR, FAMILY 
ROOM AND BATH. CLUBHOUSE 
AND POOL. $86,500. 
CALL DAWN MEYERS/ COLD· 
WELL BANKER 271·0266 
235·3241 
OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85.900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May. 1995. Call (616)946-0700. 
Beautiful '90 Acura Integra LS 
Coupe 5sp Champagne-Silver,AC 
power sunroof,spoiler, 55k miles 
$9200, '94 NO Grad in Chicago, 
must sell, but hate to part. Call 
(312) 661-7278 
Need furniture for next year? 4 
seniors @ Turtle have LOTS of 
NICE furniture! Call for details: 
2n-7597 
86 HONDA PRELUDE Sl 
red 5spd. Must sell. 
634-2475 
4 Sale: Ad-trip TIX: SB-RALEIGH­Durham through Chicago (April 14 am-return April17) $225 OBO-will sell either portion of tix 271-1 n 4 
Mac: 8months old, 4MB RAM. 160MB HD, modem, MSoffice $900 Toyomu:271-7961 
Nintendo with 10 games. $40. Call Gail X1250 

OFF CAMPUS NXT YR? FOR SALE-QN. SIZE SET W/FRAME. 3 DRESSERS, SOFA, COMP. DESK, DORM FRIDGE, COFFEE/END TABLES, GAS GRILL. MORE CALL CHRIS @ 273-2070 
Mac.Pwrbk.$1k obo 284-5256 
'79 BMW 4 spd. It just keeps going ... and going ... $1650 neg. Call for details X4923 
PERSONAL 
000 The Copy Shop 000 
LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, lATE, & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE!! I 
Phone 631-COPY 

I STILL NEED YOU I 
Larry is still looking for a ride to 
Tennessee for Easter Break. 
Knoxville is ideal, Nashville is 
acceptable. If you are going any· 
where near those cities this break. 
please call Larry at 634·3597. Will 
share gas. tolls, expenses. 
ADOPTION -A LOVING CHOICE Pediatrician and pediatric nurse happily married for seven years are hoping to share our love with a child. We love the outdoors, have comfortable home and country lake· side cottage. Will provide secure, loving home with full time mom. Counseling and allowable expens­es. Call Kim or Mike at 1-800-469· 0559 
EUROPE $199 o/w 
CARIBBEAN/MEXICO 189 r/t 
If you can beat these prices start 
your own damn airline! 
AIR-TECH LTD. 2121219-7000 
info@ aerotech.com 
()()() THE COPY SHOP ()()0 
LaFortune Student Center 
..J Quick tum around timel!l 
..J Most orders completed 
within 24 hours 
..J Free pick-up & delivery 
to & from departments 
..J Caii631·COPY 
Say Jackie. weren't you in the bath· room? 
Weren't you too, Beth? 
Great Chewie, always thinking with 
your stomach! 
Amy Crawford, 

Have you seen Bertie Vogts??? 
RUMOR: DAVID SPADE IS COM­ING FOR ANTOSTAL!!!! 
THE SECOND CITY ISCOMING!I 
THIS WEDNESDAY. APRIL 1211 Hurry and get your tickets NOW! I This will sell out!! 
8:00 @ Washington Hall TONS of tickets available for $3 at the Lafortune Info Desk 
HURRY!!! 
@@@@@@ 
Erin and Christina need a ride to Chicago/Evanston on Thursday afternoon 
Please help them. 
x4012 
@@@@@@ 
Lost: 1 pair silk panties in library 
basement if found. call Jeremy 
x1627 
Hey Rock, HAPPY BIRTHDAY From Little Beavis and the rest of the 9-man. 
we have such wonderful 
considerate friends Ill 
LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER! After 3 kids, I lost 23 lbs.. went from size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, w/o diets/drugs/exercise. All-natural products, easy, guaranteed! Kelly 1-800-209-2150 
Guitarist looking to start a band for next year. Searching for serious musicians that like to play a wide variety of music ranging from Acid Jazz to Blues to Phish. For more info please call Dave at x1643. 
SOPHOMORES»> 
Get involved in the 
ClASS OF '97 MASS 
to be held at 2pm on SUNDAY 
April 23rd at the Grotto. We still 
need EUCHARISTIC MINISTERS, 
LECTORS, ALTAR SERVERS, and 
even HOMlUSTS. We also need 
vocal and instrumental MUSICIANS 
very soon. So please get involved 
«<call Brian x1058 ASAP. 
Evacuate? In our moment of tri· umph? I think you are over-estimat­ing their chances. 
Don't Forget Sophomores ... 
The ClASS SERVICE PROJECT at the NE Neighborhood is going strong but can always use new vol­unteers. Its a lot of fun • give it a try. We leave at 2:30pm and 3:30pm from Main Circle every Wednesday and Friday, and return at 4:30. Call Brian x1058. 
Gov"t majors rule the world. Always. 
Spend some time during AnTostal with underpriviledged kids! 
The Sophomore Class will be adopting kids for two hours on FRI· DAY APRIL 28 and take them around to play games on the quad and see our campus. Don't be embarrased to go bungee running and human bowling this year ­adopt a little sib! To sign up or for more information, call Brian x1058. 
The PLEASURE will get even more VERTICAL today. 
I predict last night was pretty ugly. 
That other guy who shot those 
football pictures yesterday really 
sucks. He has no loyalty. 
Those who forget the past are con­
demned to repeat it... 
You must learn the ways of the Force, if you are to come with me to Aide ran. 
ADOPTION· A choice for you. We have lots of hugs and kisses waiting and can offer your baby a life full of love, fun. & opportunity. Backyard swings, pets, cousins and much more. Legal and confidential. We're easy to talk to-Mary & Chuck 1-800­658-8718 
My braces got caught in your snaggle toothll 

······················· 
Ron Jeremy and Peter North are up and coming actors! 
No! Not Alderanl We're a peaceful 
planetl We have no weapons! 
For Pete's sake, get that ticket to 
Europe ASAP. Don't leave me 
stranded in a strange land. Hope 
you have a Hoppy Easter. Luv Ya 
we love Ben & Jerry !I 


Wednesday, April 12, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
"They won't win against the But the Total Consciousness first good team they play agai­squad had no problems with

Bookstore 
jnst," one Wookie predicted. the religious gameplan, win­

continued from page 16 The next court over featured ning 21-16. 
the robe-wearing holy men of "We're all atheists anyway, so anything," said CCE guard the Clerics of St. Viator. Set to it didn't really matter," Con­Lamarr Justice. play with incense burning and sciousness member Jeff Speaks 
The Fighting Wookies weren't Gregorian Chant in the back­explained. "They played as too impressed with their oppo­ground, the monks were look­men possessed," he added. nents, even though they ing for the intimidation factor. Total Consciousness was able dropped the contest 21-7. 
Session I -May 18 to june 23 Session II -June 26 to August 3 
There are some good reasons to take classes at Holy Cross College this summer. Perhaps you could benefit from one or both of our summer sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. Or maybe our affordable summer tuition rate of $140 per credit hour sounds appealing. 
Whatever the reason, Holy Cross College summer sessions can offer you the opportunity to use your time more productively during the upcoming summer break. You can take advantage of our exceptionally small classes, dedicated and caring faculty and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. And, of course, credit earned is transferrable. 
So why not write or call today for more information about Holy Cross College? Applications for Summer Sessions Iand II, as well as for the 1995 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
* HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions P.O.Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 
(219) 233-6813, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 
© 1995 
-----·~-_J 
~ d DISt\flS taJSt 
onmKNTliNI<MUOAAD 
DQtSHlT THf 






SHflWSHfl~ 


"One ofthe best films ofthe year. /fit doesn't receive a handful ofOscars, there's no justice." "Spellbinding. An unforgettable experience." 
Lib~I fiDITOQIUM

m 19 7Pf\ 
followed by a reception and discussion with residents ofDismas House, a supportzve community ofstudents andformer prisoners 

to humble the holy men with kept them in the game, but fast breaks and good post play. finally Seaman Martin W. The inside-outside combination dropped in the game-winner of Speaks and Deters put in . from 20 feet out. most of the points for the "The pressure was enormous. squad. The sliding zone de­I felt like I had 20 guys on me. fense also gave the Clerics Fortunately, I've kept in great problems. physical condition in case this 
In what may have been the situation came up, and I was longest game of the day, 5 pack able to knock down the big dropped a 21-18 decision to one," explained Menus. Keith and his Shooting Seamen. When all was said and done, The game, which lasted for 75 one fan was quick to note, "the minutes of tooth-pulling excite­key to this game was en­ment, featured missed shots durance. One thing about the and multiple turnovers. The Seamen, they always play strong fan support of the 'pack hard." 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll RESULTS 
.. Team 140 def. We Suck, but be Gentle Because We 
Want to Have... 21-3 ..The Busdrlvers def. The Cliffs of Insanity 21-2 ..s Guys who Make You Sweat More than Michael 
Jackson.•. def. You Genna Reverse that. .. 21-9 ..VJIIa de Lobes def. Team .•. or Whatever 21-10 ..r~am Grillo def. X-Men In April 21-10 -.Rud~'s Lovechlldren II def. Egg Salad 21-1 -.Killen Quara def. The Sweet Cheeks 23-21 ..oos Kloskas def. Men on a Mission 21-12 
~:.set Me a Grape or an Orange def. 5 Gunmen on the Grassy Knoll .•. 21-17 -.Cooking with George Gervln def. The Hardware City Rock 


Without you
Campus Mlitistry
doesn't have 

aprayer! 
Students, Faculty and Staff are invited and encouraged to compose a personal prayer for a new Notre Dame campus prayer book. 
Please submit your prayer(s) with a title and with your name and address and send in by May 1, 1995 to: 
the Office of Campus Ministry, C/0 Prayer Book or E-Mail Address: CM. campmin.l@nd. edu 

--:-.--~-. 
page 12 Wednesday, April12, 1995 
Water polo sinks Rugby squads cruise 
By MIKE NORBUT the refs all we want, but the 

ByB.J. HOOD ping fresh dough." 
Spons Editor fact is, we were winning the 

Sports Writer The B side team was victori­
match and we allowed them to 

ous 35-5, powered by Chris 
It's the close losses that are score," junior Walter Morrissey The rugby club enjoyed suc­Weiss, Kevin Machon, Sean hard to stomach, hut they're said. 

cess over the weekend. The A Cahill, and Tad True. 
also the ones that are hard to It was a heartbreaker for the and B side teams defeated Lake 

forget. favored Irish, who had waltzed County, a men's club from "We were missing our emo­The Notre Dame water polo into the finals with wins over 

Chicago. tional leader Tim Mahoney," team fell in the championship Ohio University, Northern 
The A side team won 22-17. Weiss said. "We played our game of the Southern Illinois Illinois and Kansas by the com­
Michael Gesell, Marty guts out for him. and the fi­spring tournament to the host bined score of 70-16. Boscarino, Bryan Hitz, and nesse game that he taught us Salukis 12-11 on Sunday, Notre Dame's biggest test in Matthew Reb led the team to was the key to our victory."
marking the final effort of the the preliminary rounds came victory. Of the victory, Gesell The C side team defeated season for the Irish, one which against Northern, who featured said, "We were like hot pop-Valpraiso University, 17-5. will fester in the minds of the in their lineup a player from players throughout the off-sea­the Russian National team. He son. was held by Irish freshman Dan 
Southern Illinois, down by Toolan to eight goals in Notre three goals at the start of the Dame's 32-12 victory. The eight fourth quarter and by one with goals, though seeming to be a only one minute to play, rallied substantial amount, was in to score the fmal goal with just actuality a victory for the :03 to play to give them the undersized Toolan. 

Now that you're going to 
championship. "Dan did a great job guarding Their comeback was aided by him," captain Brian Coughlin, many que!?tionable calls by the who notched three goals 

graduate school, how 
referees in the final quarter, against Kansas to close out his which included five man-down career, said. "If it wasn't for his situations for the Irish. defense, we may not have beat­

do you plan to pay for it?
"We can talk about the jobs of en them as soundly as we did." 
HIST 458A 01 3080 HIST 461A 01 3644 HIST 466 01 4170 HIST 474A 01 2979 
DART 
CLQSED SECTIONS AS OF HIST 495 16 4172 7:00 P.M. 4/11/95 410 4068
liPS 01 LAW 695 01 4106 ACCT 475 01 2932 695 1420
LAW 02 




Ask us. 
AERO 446T 01 4254 LAW 695 05 1423 AFAM 359 01 3461 695 0572
LAW 06 AFAM 494 01 3466 MARK 384 01 1436 AMST 368H 01 3079 476 1437
MARK 01 AMST 398E 01 3474 ME 446 01 3392 ANTH 310 01 3486 M1 486 01 3776 ANTH 390 01 3153 MUS 220 01 2456 ARCH 443 03 0128 MUS 221 01 1990 ARCH 543 01 0889 MUS 226 01 1574 ARCH 543 04 2731 PHIL 243 01 3941 

For Graduate Students 
PHIL 246 8A 391 01 0805 247 3283 
ARCH 565 01 2756 01 1652 
PHIL 01 

(pursuing all types ofadvanced 
8A 391 02 0716 PHIL 248 01 3942 8A 490 02 0953 PHIL 256 01 3944 

degrees such as law, engineering,
PHIL 02 CAPP 368 01 0540 PHIL 264 03 4099 
CAPP 331 01 0579 261 0531 

nursing, etc.) The Citi­
PLS 02 CHEG 459 02 1039 PSY 401 01 3922 
CAPP 380 01 2533 481 0785 

Graduate Loan Program
COCT 425 01 3915 PSY 423 01 3923 
COMM 103 07 9707 PSY 454 01 0648 

offers Federal Stafford Loans
PSY 01 ENGL 301 01 3537 PSY 462 01 2330 
COTH 435A 01 3525 455 3924 

and our exclusive Grad­
ENGL 301 02 3538 soc 332 01 2947 
ENGL 319A 02 2939 soc 448 01 3832 

Assist Loan.
ENGL 320 01 3540 THEO 243T 01 2320 
ENGL 3928 01 3546 THEO 265 01 0779 ENGL 4158 01 3549 THEO 287 01 2377 

And, all of the Citibank Grad­
ENGL 416 01 4080 THEO 290C 01 3978 

No matter what 
ENGL 416F 01 4081 THEO 405 01 3979 

uate Loan Programs offer: 
ENGL 427E 01 3556 THTR 276 54 9754 

you study or where you cur­
ENGL 469 01 .3566 THTR 276 56 9756 

• easy repayment,
ENGL 492 01 3571 

rently bank, you can count
ENGL 494 01 3572 ENGL 495A 01 3573 CLASSES THAT WILL REOPEN 

on Citibank, the nation's • low interest rates,
ENGL 496A 01 3575 
AT 7:00P.M. 4112195
ENGL 496E 01 3576 

number one originator of • no application fees,
FIN 470 01 1284 ENGL 416 01 4080FIN 473 01 1285 ENGL 301 02 3538 

student loans, to help finance 
HIST 353A 01 3627 

• an easy application process,
LAW 695 06 0572HIST 455A 01 3642 MUS 220 01 2456 

your education. 
HIST 456A 01 3247 

• fast approvals, 
For Medical Students 
• and one toll-free number 
(pursuing allopathic and 
to call for answers to all
osteopathic medicine) The your questions. 
CitiMedical Loan Program offers Federal Stafford 
For more information 
1994-95 JOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES 

and an application for a
Loans and our exclusive 
Citibank Graduate Loan,
MedicalAssist Loan. 
call 1-800-692-8200,
For MBA Students 
and ask for Operator 256.
The CitiMBA Loan Program offers Federal Stafford Loans and our exclusive MBAAssist Loan. 
CITIBAN<C'I 
·unaffected, exhilarating and pure jazz• 
-Baltimore Evening Sun 

Name of Student ________________
Yes! I want more information 
SATURDAY, APRIL 22, and an application for the following Address ____________Apt.______ Citibank Graduate Loans: City____________________
8P.M. 

D All Federal Stafford Loans 
State____________~Zip•______
O'LAUGHUN AUDITORIUM 

D Citibank MedicaiAssist Loan 
(for students ofallopathic and Telephone·------------~----­osteopathic medicine) 
TICKETS $8* ALL SEATS RESERVED 

Student's Social Security#______________ 
D Citibank MBAAssist Loan (For better service, be sure to fill in the Social Security Number IJbove.)Discounts available for senior citizens, groups, SMC-ND (for business students) 
Student is currently in D College D Graduate School 
community and students. Tickets on sale at the Saint D Citibank GradAssist Loan Mary's box office, located In O'laughlin, 9-5 Mon.-Fri. (for graduate students) Field of Study-------­
Year of Graduation ____ 
Discover, Visa. MasterCard at 219/284-4626. Name of College/Graduate School -----------­
Mail this coupon to: 

Are you a previous student loan borrower? D Yes D No 
Citibank Student Loans 
P.O. Box 22948 Or for faster service, 
Rochester, NY 14692-2948
t\ORtftU CfnTtR 

call 1-800-692-8200, 
fOR 1ttt 41 RT S ~.,::~::~. CITIBAN<C'I 





-'II 
I 1•1•1·'.',' '.'.' '',,',''I • .' ,',' '.','. '.'>I I>'.' '> • .·'' '. , • '.', ... 
-·-----·~----. 
• •' ·I I I' I I • 1 o, 





Student Government 
and 


The Alumni Association 
would like to congratulate the 1994-95 recipient of 
The Frank 0 'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award 



ran en er er 
Concurrent Professor in the Psychology 


Department and Special Faculty Member to 
-

the Centerfor Social Concerns 




-~-------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, April 12, 1995 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SOFTBALL • SMC SoFTBALL 

Weather-worn Irish ready Belles have burst out of the gate 
BY NEIL ZENDER (12-1, 0.49 E.R.A.) in the sec­
ond. Kobata has won six
Sports Writer 

with best record in recent years
straight, and allowed only one 
If the weather is gracious enough to allow it, there will be a Notre Dame softball game to­day. But keep your fingers crossed. Lately the Irish soft­ball club has found the weather as reliable as the Postal Service. Rain postponed Sunday's doubleheader against Loyola to this Thursday, and a Tuesday road game against Michigan was snowed out for the second time this year. 
Today, God willing, the Irish will host 17-7 Western Michigan in a 3 p.m. double­header. 
"It becomes like an endless 
roller coaster." Coach Liz 
Miller said of the weather. "I 
tell the players to prepare to 
play. I hate not playing. It's 
very frustrating, but that's part 
of the game." 
She must hate not playing 
even more, considering that the 
23-9 Irish are tied for first in 
the Midwestern Collegiate 
Conference, and are on an 8-2 
tear. During that span, the 
Irish are hitting .344 and scor­
ing more than six runs per 
game, while the pitching staff 
has a minuscule 1.22 E.R.A. 
First baseman Andy Keys has 
scored eight runs during the 
streak, hitting .412 with seven 
RBis. Her teammate at short, 
Meghan Murray has hit .438. 
This season, she's scored four 
game-winning runs and had six 
game-winning RBis. 
Tentatively, Notre Dame is 
scheduled to start Joy 
Battersby (9-5, 1. 72 E.R.A.) in 
the frrst game and Terri Kobata earned run since the Hawaii Tournament in mid-March. Battersby threw a complete game three-hit shutout against Wisconsin-Green Bay last Saturday. 
Notre Dame also has plunder as a weapon. Led by Katie's Marten's 12 steals, the Irish have swiped 50 bases this sea­son, with an .862 success rate. 
Western Michigan, ranked No. 4 in the Mideast Region, will prove a tough opponent for the Irish. The Broncos are led by South Bend native Stephanie Henderson, who leads the club in virtually every offensive sta­tistic. On the mound, Western Michigan features sophomore Angie Rosch's 10-1 record with a 1.40 E.R.A. 
Although Notre Dame is hot, 
they aren't perfect. "We're still 
making a few base running 
mistakes," Miller said. "We're 
just not always tuned in. It's 
only happened a couple of 
times. And we've had some 
very alert base running. But at 
other times we're..not being 
smart base runners. 
Miller is hoping that the base 
running can be fixed in prac­
tice. The weather will prove a 
lot more difficult. Unless Notre 
Dame builds a new softball sta­
dium with a retractable dome, 
she'll have to live with it. But 
the ever resourceful Coach 
Miller even has a plan for beat­
ing the weather. 
"I'm buying my Powerball 
ticket. When I win, that dome 
goes up." 
Grand Opening ~u~ OO®£ ~~u~£ &>M~~pg1f 
Chinese Buffet Eat In or Take Out Hunan, Szechuan & Cantonese Lunch: $4.75 Dinner: $6.50 
More than 40 items served. The largest and best Chinese buffet in South Bend. 

-

Dougjas 
Rd. 
' 
OMeiJer
J &. M'S Plaza •lllng H1111 ChlnaB~  I  D uay  !""""'" Ha.,  
Elison  Rd.,  

277-1668 4609 Grape Rd., JMS Plaza, Mishawaka 
Hours: Mon-Thurs 11 a.m.-10 p.m.•Fri·Sal 11 a.m.·11 p.m.• Sun Noon-10:30 p.m. 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saim Mary's Sports Editor 

If you haven't heard, then maybe you should. The Saint Mary's softball team has won the last five in a row, and are in pursuit of the greatest win­ning season the team has seen in years. 
The Belles, who are currently 14-7, battle North Central today after coming from incredible victories against Manchester and Olivet Colleges over the weekend. The Belles were scheduled to continue their canceled game with Bethel College yesterday, }Jut the game was called once more, only this time due to rain. 
North Central will be yet an­
other challenge for the Belles. 
Last season, due to a ridiculous 
amount of errors, the Belles fell 
to North Central in both games. 
Today, the Belles are certain 
not to repeat their perfor­
mance. 

Junior Maria Vogel, the 
Belles' starting pitcher, is look­ing forward to a chance for revenge against North Central. 
"Today I'm going to concen­trate on getting off to a good start. This weekend against Olivet all of the runs that I gave up were in the first inning. Today, I refuse to do that," said Vogel. 
Vogel also expressed the team's improving defense. In their second game against Olivet on Saturday, the team committed only one error, which was the key to their big 
win. 
The Belles hope to avoid er­rors again today. and continue their phenomenal hitting streak. Andrea Arena is look­ing to repeat her 3-4 hitting streak against Bethel, and ex­pand on her number of stolen bases. 
The Belles will kick-off their double header at 3:00 today out at the softball fields behind Angela. Attendance is encour­aged, so come take a glimpse of the action. 


former Democratic Governor of Texas 

Wednesday, Aprill9, at 7:30pm in Washington Hall Tickets are available at the LaFortune 

Info Desk students $3, public $5 
Sponsored by the Office of Student Activities 

'f I I I 0 0 I I I/ I I I I 1 I 1 1 / 1 1 1 I I> • I I I I I I j I I I I f 
Wednesday, April 12, 1995 

The Observer • TODAY 


DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~==========~~G===========~

THE PUNDIT5 IN TH£. PI\ESS ~ H'S A PUBLIC-RELI\IIONS ~ USERSCOULD USE A GRAPHICS 

AA£ NAILING US fOR 
SHIPPING A \<..E'<BOARD WITH NO ''Q." 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Erratum 36 Actor Homolka 
1 "No problema!" 
of "I Remember5 Like a Mama"

contortionist 37 C.D. collection? 
10 Way to go 14 Threesome 
38 "Look!" 15 Crazy as 40 Give-go link 16 Poet Lazarus 41 Miller salesman 
11 Grp. joining a 43 Ohio city lawsuit 
44 Wally's little bra 181969 Hitchcock 
45 Take a gander film at 

19 A Barrymore 47 Just about 20 "Stop!" 
49 Ricardo's river 

23 Judge's issuance 50 20-Across. to Popeye
24 --juice (milk) 25 The Last 52 "Listen!" 
Frontier 58 One of Esau's 20 Kind of zoo in-laws 32 Mr. McCarthy, 59 Prepared to 
familiarly propose 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Jill Jill 



u H/\&0. OBVIOUSLY, WE NE.£.0 A.N ENGINEERING SOLUTION. 
so Hauls 62 Killer whale 63 Related on the mother's side 64 Bryce Canyon 
site 65 Bust's opposite 66 Shy guy of the 
4077th 67 1983 Maltby musical 
DOWN 
1 Flight plan info: Abbr. 2 Principal 3 Storage tower 4 Coin flipper's declaration 5 It's almost past the deadline 6 Gershwin's "The Man-" 1 Lush 
~ PROGR/\M TO ORAW A ~Q" ~ IN THE. UNLIKELY EVENT 
! 
~ ~ 
.... 
" 
!1 
;: 
::> 
.,
..
.. 
.. 
.. 
L---------~~~~~~~~~~-L--~~--~----~~~ 



page 15 JOHN McPHERSON
CLOSE TO HOME 
4-rz 

"They're perfect, Charles! I'll think of you every time I wear them." 



Have 
something to 

say? 
-


Use The Observer classifieds 
a Frozen dew 9 Pepsin, for one 
10 Cinnamon
candies 11 Katzof"Eerie,
Indiana" 12 "Right on!" 13 Terrytoons'
Deputy-­
21 Sobriquet for 
Dwight Gooden 22 From head-­25 Springy 26 Artist Neiman 27 "What's in 
--?11 
20 Haiku, e.g. 
29 Not as cordial 
30 Kind of day 
31 Extra benefit 
34 Cheerleader's 
cheer 35 --Beta Kappa 38 Mobile home dweller? 
39 Pursued 
42 "Amadeus" star, 1984 
44 Rubber duck 53 Mr. Saarinen pond 54 Fast food 46 Sightseer offering 55 Tolstoy's
48 90° from nord 
Karen ina 
50 "You're-­
56 Minimal bit 
duck!" 
57 Clear the 
51 Italian physicist 
decks? 52 Liquidy lump 61 Shrinking 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 



A B c DorF Grade paint average (GPA) 
------------~~-----­
I I I I I I'' t • • I I I I I Itt' I • I 1 I I I I' • • • • 
t t • I' tIt I o I o o 1 • • 1,, •, t, • 


SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, April12, 1995 
• MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish netters wary of hungry Wolverines 
ByB.j.HOOD 
Sports Writer 
On Saturday, the Notre Dame men's tennis team showed they had improved. On Wednesday, they will need another stellar performance against Michigan in what Coach Bob Bayliss pre­dicts to be a 4-3 match. 
Saturday at ranked Boise State. the Irish had to adjust to 2400 feet of altitude, a loud crowd, and the fact that Boise State hadn't lost at home for two years. 
The streaking Irish played their way to a 4-3 victory, and Bayliss feels the Irish showed the benefits of the painful early season losses to tough oppo­nents. 
Michigan has been dominat­ing Big Ten competition and has only lost one regional match. But as Bayliss points out, Michigan has not lost a match with all of their players competing. 
"They're playing very well. We'll have our hands full," Bayliss said. 
John Costanzo and Peter Puztai will provide a big chal­lenge to Ryan Simme and Mike Sprouse at number one and two singles. 
Two freshmen play three and four singles for the Wolverines, in Dave Paradzik and Arvid Swan. Geoff Prentice and Grady Burnett round out the singles competitors for Michigan. 
"Michigan is a genuine threat," Bayliss said. "I predict a 4-3 match. I would be sur­prised if someone had a deci­sive victory." Last year, it was a 4-3 match, with the Irish pre­vailing in Ann Arbor. 
Who does a close match fa­vor? "We've been in more 4-3 matches, but I think they've won their share of them. You just don't know what will hap­pen." 

Both teams have a good chance of making NCAA re­gionals. The winner may be the number one team in the midwest. 
Mike Sprouse feels the Irish are very capable of winning the match. "We've played in a lot of close matches, so we know what to expect. We've beaten teams that are better than Michigan," Sprouse continued. "If we go out with a lot of confi­dence, we can and should win, but they can beat us on any given day." 
Since the match is such an important one and it is against rival Michigan, Bayliss hopes a big crowd will show up at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Both Sprouse and Bayliss mentioned that playing in Boise State's loud environment was fun. 
"It's a really big match and I hope everybody comes out," Bayliss added. 

The Observer/Eric Ruethling No. 1 singles Ryan Simme will have his hands full with UM's John Costanza. 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBALl. XXIV 

Bookstore XXIV slip-slides along, but play slowed 
By DAVID TREACY Sports Writer 
You've got to love fast-paced Bookstore action. 
Of course, due to torrential rain Tuesday afternoon, you've got love slow-paced Bookstore action. 
·On a surface slicker than the greens at Augusta, teams fought to stay on their feet, let alone alive in the tournament. 
The team from the Center for Continuing Education took ad­vantage of the wet blacktop and the Fighting Wookies 

.. with a trapping defense. The Wook­ies just couldn't keep control of the ball, turning it over almost every other trip down the court. Unfortunately for the Wookies, the trap was also backed up by physical play from Joel Link in­side, and the bandana-wearing, trash-talking Ziolkowski twins. "They were bigger and stronger than us. All they did was push us around," Wookie center Rene Rodriguez said. Indeed, the game took less time than the time-outs for foul calls, as both teams felt compelled to push and shove. "Fouls are part of the game," Keith Ziolkowski explained. "They fouled us, so we fouled them back." The quick hands of the CCE limited the scoring for the Wookies, but the surface limited the fast breaks and driving opportunities. "The court was just ridiculous. We couldn't do 
, 
Wednesday, April 12 ND Baseball at Purdue, 3 p.m. ND Softball vs. Western Michigan 3 p.m., Ivy Field ND Men's Tennis vs. Michigan 3 p.m., Eck Pavilion SMC Softball vs. North Central, 3:30 
Thursday, April13 ND Lacrosse vs. Air Force 3 p.m., Moose Krause Field SMC Tennis at Midwest Invitational 



Looking for the opening 
Freshman Clement Stokes looks to break into the Irish backfield rotation 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Assistant Sports Editor 
Old fashion football. Notre Dame football. Power, blood and guts. You'll find no weak quarterback leading a sissy ariel attack. It's all about a dominating offensive line and thoroughbreds in the backfield. 
While the offensive line is returning to its traditional form, the depth at running back is typical Irish. 
In the past, names like Lee Becton, Ray Zellars, and Reggie Brooks all 


served their time in an apprentice role. 
The year and the per­sonnel are different, but the situation is not. Behind the

Football '9) shadows 
of 
present Irish running backs Randy Kinder, Robert Farmer and Marc Edwards races the potential next star at running back, Clement Stokes. 
"The three tailbacks are Randy Kinder, Robert Farmer and Clement Stokes," Irish head coach Lou Holtz announced at his annual spring press conference. "Not many people have 
Friday, April 14 
Good Friday No sports scheduled. 
heard of him (Stokes). He has good speed and tremendous strength." 
It was because of this strength that the Irish coaches almost switched Stokes from tailback to fullback. 
"I've talked to coach and I don't think I'm going to move," Stokes commented on the possible switch. "I run hard, so maybe they saw a lit­tle fullback in me. But I've loosened up my running and I think they now see the tailback in me. I don't think that there are any more thoughts of changing me." 
Yet, even if there was a change, his goal remains the same. "I just want to be able to con­tribute." 
Contributing is something he wasn't allowed to do last season. As a freshman among many talented veteran running backs the coaches decided to redshirt Stokes. 
"At the beginning I was a little dis­appointed," he explained. "But later I realized I couldn't contributed as much as I would have wanted to. I still needed to work on my blocking and learning the plays. I decided to make the most of the year." 
Without the playing time and field experience it is hard for him to rate his overall game. 
"I don't think I could rate myself. I haven't played, and all I can do is compare myself according to Randy and Farmer. They are both great running backs. Randy has his speed and Farmer has his great instinct. I'm picking up things from them." 
He's doing what every running back has done before him, learning from the best. And in the future another young running back will be doing the same thing. Except this time Clement Stokes will be the 
Saturday, April 15 ND W. Tennis vs. Miami (OH) I p.m. ND Baseball vs. Detroit (2), 5 p.m. SMC Softball vs. Goshen, 3:30 p.m. ND Softball at Northern Illinois SMC Track at IUPU Little States 





