
Wednesday, October 25 • Vol. XXVII No. 42 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Adams postpones ND visit 
Clinton's trip will be the firstIrish leader by a sitting president to the six counties of Northern Ireland. 
to focus on 
Clinton's visit should help "to create a unique opportunity for a peaceful resolution to the
peace process conflict," llarvey said in a letter released Tuesday. Adams
By DAVE lYI.ER 
hopes that the president's visit
News EJiror 
will be a turning point in the now stalled talks between· Great 
Sinn Fein presidnnt Gerry 
Britain, Ireland and the SinnAdams cancelled his American Fein.
speaking tour today, citing a Organizers of Adams' Notre
desire to stay home to help 
Dame visit said the event wasjump start the stalled Northern postponed and not cancelled.
Ireland peace process. 
Friends of Sinn Fein hopes to
Among Adams' scheduled 

nlschedule Adams' appearancestops was a November 1 speech for sometime in Febraury ofat Notrn Dame. 
1996, according to senior Kevin New York City attorney Klau who helped to plan theHichard Harvey, general coun­event for Notre Dame's Office ofsel for the American lobbying Student Activities. 
group Friends of Sinn Fein and "We're dissappointed, but for11 spokesman for Adams said 
anyone who's watching the
the controversial Irish leader conflict (in Northern Ireland)
has postponed all of his this news might be a good
planned engagements so that sign," said Klau. "Hopefully
he might prepare for U.S. 
we'll see Gerry Adams inPresident Bill Clinton's visit February and he'll be talkingduring the last week of 
about the events of these nextNovember and the first week of few months."
December this year. 
Analyst Shields to describe America's next president 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST political analyst on MacNeil/Lehrer for 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST St. Joseph County police took Herro 
~sociarc News EJi11.>r the past eight years. During the first 
Associate News Editor into custody on Thursday and charged
six years, Shields and David Gergen, him with three, counts of child molesta­Mark Shields, a syndicated political representing the political left and right, St. Joseph County Superior Court tion and two counts of sexual miscon­columnist and television commentator respectively, were teamed together on 
Judge Roland Chamblee entered an duct with a minor. lie was released 
on the PBS MacNeiVI.ehrer News Hour, the popular political segment "Gergen innocent plea on Monday on behalf of Friday after posting $2,000 bond. 
will speak this evening in the auditori· & Shields," until Gergen lef\ the show Notre Dame Associate Professor of elec­From .January 1994 to June 1995, 
urn of thll Hesburgh 
to become President Clinton's commu· 
trical engineering 
Herro allegedly molested the boy
Library. nications director in the spring of 
Mark Herro. who is numerous times at several locations. 
Shields' lecture, 1993. 
charged with molest­Herro was a friend of the boy's family, 
"The Making of the Pi-ior to becoming a columnist and 
ing a 14-year-old boy. authorities said. 
PrHsident -1996," commentator, Shields managed politi­
Chamblee told Herro The boy's father informed county
will begin at 7:30 cal campaigns in 38 states, beginning 
and his lawyer, police last week of the alleged conduct 
p.m. and is open to in the mid-1960s. His frrst major cam· 
Charles Asher, to after finally persuading his son to talk 
tho public. paign was organizing California for 
return to court next about it, aeeording to police reports. 
A 1959 graduate of Robet·t Kennedy's presidential bid in 
Monday to receive a At present, Herro remains a faculty
Herro

Notro Dume, Shields Shields 1968. Speaking to The New York 
trial date from Judge member at the University, according to has hnen a featumd 
Sanford Brook, who
see SHIELDS I page 6 

will preside over the case. see HERRO I page 6 

Howard encourages change 
ByTOMMORAN resources. "If we have too adigm. "I think there's enor­News Writer many people trying to utilize mous room for change," he tQ_o many of the earth's re­said. "Modifying thoughts so 
In order for humanity to live sources, it's the earth that's that they're a little more ceo­in an ecologically sensitive going to suffer," he said. conscious is a step in the right fashion, human nature itself Extremism of production also direction."· must be changed, according to leads to the conclusion that According to lloward, such a Notre Dame psychology profes­"happiness comes from con­change would work best when sor George I Inward. suming as much as possible," a coupled with short-term practi­
Howard, author of Essays in mindset that is clearly in oppo­cal measures such as a "green Ecopsychology: Creating a More sition of the environmental tax" that would raise the price Earth-Friendly Human Nature. movement. of environmentally unsound lectured on "Combating Killer Howard stated that he be­producl'>. Such a tax would be Thoughts: Creating a More lieves human natures can be offset by cuts in other income Earth-Friendly Human Nature" altered to accept a new set of taxes, thereby aiding "green" yesterday in the Hesburgh priorities more in tune with products without raising taxes. Center. environmental goals. "I think He also urged that people be 
Howard said that the con­human nature is very change­taught to think "like in­ventional view of human nature able," he said "I think change is vestors"-thinking of long­emphasizes "maximization and a factor of what (people) think term benefits rather than short optimization" of human about themselves. We have term gains. This sort of atti­achievement-celebrating the many fields that tell us we're tude, Howard stated, is impor­people who make the most 'maximizers'-if we come to tant in assisting the cause of money, who work the most pro­believe this, we will act this more expensive, but ultimate ductively, or even who create way." more economical, environmen­the most progeny. Such Therefore, according to tally sound products. "extreme beliefs," he noted, are Howard, human nature can be He spoke about the changes very problematic for the cause changed if the maximizing in human nature necessary to of the environment. emphasis of such fields as eco­benefit the environmental 
This extremism leads to an nomics is replaced by a more movement. "I think the eeolog­inevitable overtaxing of natural environmentally conscious par-
see EARTH I page 6 



I 
-.--: -.--. -. --­
I page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, October 25, 1995 
• INSn:tE COLUMN 

Take one minute to think first 

Have you ever tried driving blindfolded? With your arms tied behind your back? On the opposite side of the road toward on-coming traffic? 
You sound surprised at my bizarre questions. But I fail to see the dis­tinction between any of 
these dare-devil stunts and the one that many Caroline Blum 

Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
of us have done at some time or another: drink and drive. 
By now most of us have heard the horrify­ing news about Rob Adams's death. We are mourning, grieving, and asking ourselves why. What I want to know is what we plan to do about this incident? 
John Rita claimed he consumed only three shots on the night he operated the car that killed freshman Mara Fox. Three shots are three shots too many to drink before driving a car, as Rita demonstrated. 
Rather than learning from Rita's mistake, however, we continue to allow our friends as well as ourselves to drink and drive. How many of us drove home after drinking the same night Rob did? Did any of us even con­sider the possibility that what we were doing might have ended our lives, as it did Rob's? Did the thought that we might never know what the next seventy years has in store for us even cross our minds? 
Drinking and driving is not brave, humor­ous, nor admirable. Drinking and driving is gambling with our lives. We can't sit on the sidelines and continue to watch this evil steal anymore of our friends. Can't we allow Rob's death to become significant in that it might make one of us think twice. It might save one of our lives. 
Ironically, this week is Alcohol Awareness Week at Saint Mary's. Students walk through LeMans Hall, stricken by the sights of large red footprints following their every step. Red footprints with the names of friends who were killed as a result of drunk driving branded upon them. Will we see the faces of those we lost to drunk driving in these footprints? Will we hear their cries and remember the promises we made after their deaths, promises to never drink and drive ourselves? 
Recognize that a decision to drink and drive parallels a decision to die. How many more of our loved ones have to die before we stop getting into a car with someone who has been drinking? Before we stop letting them drive after they have been drinking? Before we, ourselves, stop driving after we have been drinking? 
Since before the birth of our driving careers we were told by parents and teachers of the importance of designated drivers. We listened and believed. but many of us never obeyed. Years later the issue still grips our every gathering, yet we have derived no alternative. 
The students of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's are highly .intelligent people. And we 
are capable of outsmarting this whole issue. 
We just have to think. We only have to think. 
Certainly, we can identify our options: we 
can designate a driver or we can call a cab. 
Five bucks and a twenty-five minute wait 
for a cab ride can mean the difference 
between life and death. Not just this week, 
not just this semester, but always. Always. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Mike O'Hara  
Mark Huffman  Production  
Sports  Kristi Kolski  
Joe Villinski  Allison Fashek  
Mike Day  Lab Tech  
Graphics  Brandon Candura  
Chris Mullins  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WmtU! AT A GLAMC£ 

Strong quake hits remote region of southwestern China 

BEIJING 
A strong earthquake with numerous aftershocks knocked over buildings and killed at least 29 people in southwestern China's mountainous Yunnan province Tuesday. 
More than 100 people were injured by the 6.5 magnitude quake, which toppled nearly 200 buildings in Wuding County, the epicenter, about 60 miles northwest of the provin­cial capital Kunming, according to the state-run Xinhua News Agency and local seismologists. 
The quake, which struck at about 6:46 a.m., shook beds in Kunming and was felt 125 miles away, seismologists said. 

Telephone lines were cut and roads blocked to some towns near the epicenter, seismologists said. Xinhua re­ported that cracks were found in two reservoirs after the quake. 
Seismologists said damage reports near the epicenter were incomplete. Provincial officials sent 30 teams to help out with relief and damage assessment. 
"The earthquake was relatively strong and there were many aftershocks," said an official with the Central 
NYC mayor asked Arafat to leave 
NEW YORK 
Mayoral aides asked Yasser Arafat to leave a New York Philharmonic per-
lll!lr;;~~~t;,• formance of Beethoven's "Ninth Symphony" because he was not invit­ed, a City Hall source said today. Mayor Rudolph Giuliani had made it clear last week that the Palestinian leader and Cuban President Fidel Castro, in town for the United Nations anniversary, were not welcome at Monday night's city­sponsored concert at Lincoln Center. However. the Palestine Liberation Organization chief showed up any­way, readily visible in his flowing black and white head­dress. The mayor had Deputy Mayor Randy Mastro qui­etly ask Arafat to leave. "The delegation did leave the concert after the request was made," said the source, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The i~ident occurred so quickly and quietly that few in the packed Avery Fisher concert hall even knew it happened. 
Shuttle problems snag fifth flight day 
CAPE CANAVERAL 
Columbia's astronauts heated oil and shook water droplets in orbit Tuesday, experiments they hope will one day lead to purer pharmaceuticals on Earth and better fuel storage in space. Communications glitches caused minor problems during Day 5 of the two-week laborato­ry-research mission. A problem on the ground resulted in an 18-minute loss of communication between Mission Control and Columbia. The outage did not interrupt any work aboard the shuttle and posed no problem for the crew, NASA said. Another communication dropout, this one anticipated, occurred later in the day. NASA's track­ing satellites, which link ground controllers with orbiting spacecraft, got overcrowded with users. As a result, Mission Control had to relinquish use of the system for about 20 minutes. The scientists aboard Columbia spent much of the day observing temperature-induced changes in the flow of silicone oil and using sound waves to shake 
drops of water. 


Wednesday, Oct. 25 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Seismology Bureau in Beijing, 
who identified himself by his 
surname, Ma. 
Within 75 minutes, seismolo­
gists had recorded 104 af­
tershocks. the strongest with a 
preliminary magnitude of 4. 9, 
said seismologist Ma Dianjun in 
Kunming. 
He warned a second quake 
with a magnitude between 5 and 
6 could jolt the area in the next 
few days. A quake with a magni­
tude of 6 can cause severe dam­
age to populated areas. . 
Although the quake was 
unlikely to cause great damage 

in sparsely populated Kunming, p people were told to shore up A badly constructed buildings or those on shaky foundations, Ma said. 
Most of the deaths occurred in Wuding and neighbor­ing Luquan County, Ma said. One person died and three were injured about 60 miles north in neighboring Sichuan province. 
Yunnan province, about 1,300 miles southwest of Beijing, has steep mountains rising to more than 6,500 feet. 
Iranian woman escapes harassment 
FARGO, N.D. 

An Iranian woman escaped from a burning Middle Eastern restaurant where she had been bound, gagged and left to die in what authorities said was a hate crime that followed weeks of harassment. Family members said a swastika was carved into the abdomen of Zhaleh Sarabakhsh, but authorities said Tuesday the overlap­ping slash marks may have been a cross. Sarabakhsh. 38, crawled to safety after her assailants bound her hands and feet, covered her mouth with tape and set a fire in the Kabob House Middle Eastern restaurant Monday night, police Lt. Marv Hucklesaid. She told authorities she did not see her assailants, who attacked her from behind while she was working. The attack fol­lowed harassment that included a swastika being painted and a threatening message hung on the restaurant's front door. A package with several fake fingers and another threatening note was also mailed to the family. police said. Sarabakhsh was treated for smoke inhalation and released from a hospital Tuesday. 
More people evacuated after gas leak 
BOGALUSA, La. 

At least 1,200 more people were evacuated Tuesday as authorities tried neutralizing a toxic chemical in a rup­tured railroad tank car that already had forced 1,500 people out of their homes. The second group of evacuees live in two housing projects less than a mile from where the tank car ruptured Monday, sending a huge pink cloud of poisonous gas into the sky. Between 1,200 and 1,500 people had to leave their homes Tuesday in case the tank broke open and released more gas as emergency crews flooded it with chemicals to neutralize the 2 1/2 to 3 feet of liquid inside, Washington Parish Sheriff Duane Blair said. The first 1,500 people were ordered out of their homes during rush hour Monday, when a cloud of gas burst from the car at Gaylord Chemical Corp. and floated over this town of 16,000 people. They are staying at churches and other shelters. About 500 people were treated at hospitals after complaining of sore throats, burning eyes and shortness of breath. At least two were in serious condition. 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 25. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY © 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure  
Atlanta  74  57  Dallas  70  41  New Orleans 80  68  
Baltimore  76  48  Denver  45  21  New York  68  67  
Boston  71  53  Los Angeles 78  53  Philadelphia 75  50  
Chicago  48  42  Miami  84  79  Phoenix  80  54  
Columbus  57  47  Minneapolis 51  34  St. Louis  61  45  

. ~ 
Wednesday, October 25, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 
~University honored 
Council to assist in funding for building character 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
Assistant News Editor 
Assistance in fundraising for the KtHman Hevue as well as the Fall Festival was one of the major focuses of yesterday's Hall Presidents' Council meet­ing. 
Mark Kiser, producer of this year's Keenan Hevue, re­qutlsted that ads from the pres­idents' dorms be placed in the programs, stating that this year the Hevue has been "lim­ited in fundraising." The Hevue is in its 20th year and will be held February 1, 2, and 3. 
Leaders of this year's Fall Fnstival, 11 community service project which works in con­junction with the esc and the Northeast Neighborhood, also requested assistance in raising funds to cover the Festival's es­timated $1,000 cost. 
Frank Berry, one of the or­ganizers of the project, which will take place on November 11, stated that the Festival's major goal is "to clean up the neighborhood." But "another major side effect," he said is "improved relations between students and the community." 
Volunteers who participate in the project will be treated to a free barbecue, which is one of the main expenses of the pro­ject. Other expenses include equipment for the project, some of which is donated by the University. 
In other HPC news, Student Government announced that the deadline to turn in forms for the Boston College Banner contest will be extended until this Friday just before judging. The winner will be announced at the BC pep rally that evening. 
The council also reported positive feedback for the College of Arts and Letters plan to hold a career fair, which would have booths instead of individual meetings for each major. If the fair occurs, stu­dent representatives as well as faculty members will be pre­sent at each booth. 


nrchers 
Loa..-
UJith Capsize 7 and emiL 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has been selected to the 1995 John Templeton Foundation Honor Roll for Character Building Colleges. 
Established in 1989, the bian­nual honor roll recognizes those institutions of higher learning that "best encourage the devel­opment of strong moral charac­ter among students." 
The Templeton Foundation was formed in 1987 by interna­tional investment counselor John Templeton to forge stronger links between the sci­ences and all religions. 
The foundation works closely with scientists, theologians, philosophers, scholars, and medical professionals to sup­port programs and studies that seek to further understanding of spirituality and the impor­tance of personal character. 
The purpose of the Honor Roll for Character Building Colleges is threefold: 
•To 
acknowledge the accom­plishments of those institutions that promote character and value development, 

•To 
inspire other institutions to reevaluate their attention to character development in their curricula, 

•To 
serve as 11 reference list of schools for prospective stu­dents and their families and for prospective benefactors. 


Among other institutions on the honor roll are Yale University, Boston College, and the University of Portland. Portland, like Notre Dame, was founded by the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
A complete list of the 1995 Templeton Foundation Honor Boll for Character Building Colleges is available by calling (800) 217-7175. 

page 4 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 25, 1995 



0MPUS 
MINISTRY 


A MAss IN MEMORY oF 

s 
A Senior at the University ofNotre Dame 
Will be Offered at the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart on Wednesday, October 25, 1995 at 5:00p.m. 
/ 
Father Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. Presider Music by the Notre Dan1e Folk Choir 
A reception for the family and friends will follow the Mass 
---------------~----------------------~-----~ 
_~_e_d_n_es_d~ay~,_O_c_ro_b_e_r2_5_,_1_9_95_______________T~h~e~O~bs=e~N~er~·-C~A~~P~U~S~~~E=~~=S______________________________________~p_ag~e--5 
Brown addresses leadership problems in Russia 
By MAITHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 
Hussia is teetering on the brink of returning to au­thoritarian rule, aecording to Arehie Brown, a professor of politics at St. Antony's College of the University of Oxford, who advanced this theory in a lee­turn last night at the Hesburgh Center for International Studios. 
Brown, a recognized expert on Hussian Politics, addressed the leadership problems that Hussia has had in the transition period between the USSR and the eurront Russian Hepublic. Brown said of the current government: "It has become a mixed form of part liberal democrats, part authoritarians, and part -I would say -crimi­nals." 
Brown said, "Contrary to popular Western belief, Ronald Heagan [who was President of the United States in 1985) and Margaret Thatcher fwho was Prime Minister of Great Britain in 1985) had little if anything to do with the fall of the Soviet Union, and had nothing to do with Gorbachev's rise to power in 1985." 
Gorbachev brought about the changes that facilitated the break up of the Soviet Union. He himself was brought to power after three hard-line communists died within two years of each other, creating a 
THE NANOVIC CENTEH FOH EUHOPEAN STUDIES 
presents 

Willian1 Pfaff 
uutlror uml intematimllllly synclicatecl commentator with Tlw lllternatio11al Herald Tribu11e 
lecturing on 

Nationalism 
October 25, at 4: 15 p.m. 136 DeBartolo 
and 

Bosnia 
OetoiJ!'r 26, at 4:15 p.m. 126 Oellartolo 
William l'falf. a graduate of Notro• Dam•. has gaino·d int•rnational 
rt~t·ugnitiun as a politic·ul t•omnwntutor. fie hegun his c·art't'f a~ an l"di­
tnr uf Commnnwt•al. hut gainrd famr fnr his politic·al c·ornmrntary on 
Tlw Nt•w Ynrk.,r from 1'171 to I!JCJ2. Among his many hooks are his 
rr1:rnt: '/'lu~ lr'rath of Nutions, Ci1•iliznlimr utu/ tire Furit•s of 
Natimwli.~m (1993); Uurlmnrm Sentiment.~: flow the Auwril'lm Century 
f.'ml... ()IJH()). wimwr, in it's Fn•m·h Ntition. of thr cit}' of C••nr\·a's l,rix 
Jrun-Ja('(fllt'M ltousMt>tlll uwurd for tht• ht>~t politiC'ul hook iu Fn•rwh in 
l11ll'J; with Edmund Stillman, '17w Politi" of 11)-stPrifl: '17w Snurrt•s of 211tlt l.t"lllllry Cmiflil'l (196~) and Contlt•flllwt/ lo Fref'dom (1971). IIi• uutuhio~rnphit·ul t>s~ay, The Lay lntt•llt•(•hual. waH im~luclt•d in liRsl Auwrirmo Emors (11)87). 
/•i, further infomwtirm, contact Robert IVI'g.~. Dirl'ctor N\-.,0\'IC CENTER. FOil EllllOI'EAN STliOIF.S, at 6.3/-6470. 
vacancy at the position of General Secretary of the Communist Party. "There were no real stimuli for change inside or outside of the Soviet Union," Brown said. "The dis­sident movement was at a low point in 1985. Until 1989, Lenin was considered the greatest man in history by Russians." 
Because of these circum­stances, Gorbachev was forced to try to reform the system from the inside. However, he lost control by 1991. Brown mentioned that, "it was not in Gorbachev's personality to restore control through dicta­torship." Gorbachev just let the power move away from the center. 

"At the same time," Brown said, "Boris Yeltsin had quit as a party boss and taken up lead­ership of the opposition." 
Yeltsin took command of the government in 1991 and began to lose more control. He responded this lack of control with authoritarian measures that he had gotten so used to as a party boss. This resulted in massive consolidation of the government. 
However, according to Brown, "Yeltsin has a very weak sense of rule of law." Disbanding Parliament in February 1994, Yeltsin wrote his own constitution and pro­ceeded to ignore its provisions in relation to political prison­ers. 
Results of this policy are what could be sending Russia back to an authoritarian gov­ernment, according to Brown. "It has caused tremendous dis­illusionment with government," he said. "There has been a fall in support for democracy, a sense of apathy and lack of par­ticipation. If the December election goes badly for Yeltsin he might push back or eancel the presidential election, which would be a major setback." 
Brown, who has written twelve books, has been visiting the Soviet Union and Russia frequently since the mid­1960's. l-Ie was responsible for briefing Margaret Thatcher before her very first visit with Gorbachev in 1985. 
Richter advises on alcoholism 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Most college students never think the statistics about alco­hol will affect them. However, the meaning behind the statis­tics becomes real when hearing them from a peer, according to the Saint Mary's women who attended senior Laura Richter's lecture, "Speaking from Experience." 
Richter, who serves as the Residence Hall Association sec­retary and is the co-captain of Saint Mary's softball team, re­lated the problems she faced with alcoholism during her junior year of high school to the college drinking scene. 
"I started drinking a lot when I was in high school, because everyone else did, just like what happens here. I started to center my life around the next drink, and realized I had to get help," she said. "Life is not lived when you're focused on the next drink or the next weekend." 

Richter cited drinking at SYRs and formals as primary prob­lems on campus. 
As an RHA board member, Richter hopes to propose a dance policy procedure to the Dean of Student Affairs, which would include the 11 p.m. rule. 
"Drinking is a serious prob­lem on campus, and it's the stu­dents' responsibility to make that change. As much as the administration can do, the change will only come when student expect more from their peers," Richter said. 
In a poll conducted by The Observer in September, only 14 percent of Saint Mary's stu­dents stated that they do not drink at all during the week. Richter said, "The Saint Mary's community must realize their 
responsibility to demand 
respect and respoinsibility from 
their peers. The community 
must rise to that challenge," 
Richter said. 
According to Georgeanna Rosenbush, director of Student Aetivities, that change will only come throught the leadership of students. "Laurie took a risk, and made a huge impact on everyone here, myself included," Hosenbush said. "Students have such an impact on their peers. Change on campus always eomcs from the students." 
As part of RHA's Alcohol Awareness Week, RHA board members said they hope Richter's lecture will encourage change. "I'm hoping this brought about an awareness, so students will think about the choices they make, and why they make those choices," Richter said. 
Celebrate a friend's.birthday with a special Observer ad 
4th Day Tonight 
ALL WELCOME 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 


-~---~---~ 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, October 25, 1995 
Governor announces program 
Special to The Observer 
Governor Evan Bayh an­nounced the formation of a statewide education initiative to provide students in grades K-12 with volunteer tutors. The program, "Partners in Learning," is a partnership between existing tutoring pro­grams, the Governor's Voluntary Action Program and the Indiana Commission on Community Service. 
"Our state's most valuable resource is our children," Bayh said. "I am calling on the citi­zens of Indiana to help our children be successful in school. By helping a child read, volunteers will gain the satisfaction of knowing they have made a positive differ­ence." 
To begin this initiative, site visits were conducted by state officials to fmd out the needs of current tutoring programs. Program administrators expressed a need for assis­tance with recriuting vol­unteers and tutor training. To meet these needs, the new pro­gram has developed public ser­vice announcements and an 800 number to recriut volun­teers, set up a statewide tutor training seminar. and devel­oped a tutoring handbook. 
The Boy's and Girl's Club of St. Joseph's County and Twenty-First Century Scholars will be participating in this ini­tiative and need 30 volunteers to help students succeed. 
Anyone interested in being a volunteer tutor should call (800) 267-9029. 
Olde Buffalo Inn Bed and Breakfast 
1 061 Parkwood Drive Nappanee, Indiana 46550 
219-773-2223 1-800-272-2135 

"Something to Talk About" (R) 
2:20, 4:50. 7:20, 9:35 
"The Big Green" (PG) 
2:00. 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
"Empire Records" (PG-13) 
2:40. 5:00, 7:40, 9:45  
"Get Shorty"  (R)  
2:00. 4:20. 7:00. 9:20  
(R)  

(R) 
"Last ol the Dogmen" (PG) 
2:10, 4:35, 7:00. 9:30 
"Never Talk to Strangers" (R) 
2:40, 4:55, 7:25. 9:40 

Shields 
continued from page 1 
Times in 1993, Gergen said, ''I'll go to my grave believing Robert Kennedy would have been the best president of my lifetime." 
Shields, who earned a de-
Earth 
continued from page 1 
ical problems we are beset with right now are due to some very basic flaws in 20th century human nature," he said, hoping to create a "human nature for the 21st century," which he 
Wanted: Reporters, editors and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
H3 UlllnmHmmHJIIj;-. 
RETREAT DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP 
DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: 
COST: 
ffi IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDDI!III'-; 
UN 
gree in philosophy at Notre Dame, presently serves on the Advisory Council for the College of Arts and Letters at the University. He is also host of CNN's "Capital Gang." 
Tonight's lecture is spon­sored by the Student-Alumni Relations Group and the Department of American Studies. 
described a vision of the good life which will let people walk more gently on the earth." 
The lecture, which was or­ganized by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, concentrated on points con­tained in Howard's recently completed book on ecopsychol­ogy. 
'lllilllii]JWIIIUIIJIIIII ffi 

A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with olhers, lo deepen your und.orslnndlng or youraell, your valuu, your rolallonshlp with Christ, your experience ol Christian community nnd scrvlco. 
NOVEMBER 17-19, 1995 
October 23 -27 
Before 4:00 p.m. -October 27 
Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
~­
(?MPUS

MINISTR,.Y
$25.00 

--. ·•l!llllUUIIUUIIIJIIU EE 
Herro 
continued from page 1 
Dennis Moore, director of pub­lic relations and information. The matter is under review by the University. Moore added. 
Any resulting action would probably not be announced publicly, according to University policy. 
"Personnel matters are all subject to confidentiality," Moore said. _ 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
.. dents who signed up. ;,; A majority of the RHA also voted in favor of drafting a proposal to the hall directors about the ten o'clock dance rtlle, but no definite changes hiive·been instated. 
The Observer regrets these errors. 

~e'l ()' ettt'l 
Z)U:f, tpUe <U~J~te tad ~? 
w~~~' 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 

-~­

TOLEDO, SPAIN 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR TERESA LEUGERS 
THURSDAY OCTOBER 26, 1995 
7:00 PM 119 DEBARTOLO 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 

INFORMATION MEETING: Thursday, October 26, 1995 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m. 
......... ........ ""'-·· ..... .., ................. .." .. ,;, .....
~ ~ 


VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, October 25, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME 01'1'1CE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S Oi'FICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
john Lucas 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Spon. Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director.......... Petc Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The ObS<rver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame: du Lac and Saint Mary's C..ollcgc:. h does not necessarily rdlc:Cl the policies of the adminisua­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials rrpresent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary'; com­munity and to all readers. ThC' free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• IN MY NEIGHBORHPOD 
Part Ill: The Rage ofa Privileged Class 
" A black director of a large bank told 
fime of a board meeting he attend­ed at which evidence was presented that tlw bank was not trnating its black cus­tomers the same way it treated whites. Blacks with equivalent earnings and credit histories had significantly lower loan approval rates. 
"The directors recognized immediately that they had a problem, that it was clear thny had to do a much better job with 'affirmative aetion.' 
Onn board member bluntly disagreed, pointing out that the problem had noth­ing to do with affir­mative action, that awaited Oct. 16, the Holy Day of Atonement and Reconciliation for black people. 
Most of us will recognize this day as the day of the Million Man March orga­nized by several dozen black organiza­tions, and headed by Ben Chavis, Jesse Jackson and the Nation of Islam's Honorable Louis Farrakhan. 
The day itself was a beautiful thing and I consider myself lucky enottgh to have witnessed such a strong showing of black love, respect and responsibility. 
The resounding themeaof that day was 
a scripture quot­
ed over and over 

the bank was sim-again by many of ply not acting in its the speakers own best interest in which I have rejecting loa.ns that committed to should be ap­memory and to
Cristiane Likely
proved. heart: "If my peo­
"The black direc­ple, which are tor was grateful for called by my his colleague's in­name, shall hum­tervention, for he ble themselves, 
T
had often seen such statements go unchallenged. The first inclination of some of his fellow board members was to consider initiatives that might benefit blacks as something other than normal business, something that belonged in the category of charity and good works. hus, the directors could give them­selves special credit for doing what was right by any standard (Ellis Cose, 191)." 
This notion is very evident throughout Amerit:a. most African American stu­dents who go to predominantly white schools are victims of quotas; most blacks in the corporate world are chari­ty hires, etc. etc. 
For example, a lot of black students have had a very dillicult time trying to prove their worth, to prove that they be­long here just because they are black, nothing else. 
So with this along with hundreds of other things to deal with, I anxiously and pray, and seek my face, and 
moved by the showing of over one mil­dropped the knowledge and it is only up lion black men. to us to keep it alive. I've had the It moved me to tears, for here now opportunity to come in contact with a 
was a sign of unity and  few dozen  men and  
of hope.  women  who either  
Doctors held hands in brotherhood with gang members and  'so now is an important time in our history. It  attended the march or watched it at home and like me  
teachers and students; Muslims with Christians and Black  is up to us to decide our fate. Are we willing to do  have a renewed sense of re­sponsibility to our  
Jews; fathers with sons and grandsons; rich and poor and those in between; light skinned and dark skinned, it didn't mat­ter for it was all about  what is necessary, regard­less of how difficult and challenging it might be, or are we going to sit back and do the same kind of  people. I, along with sever­al million other blacks, atone for my sins and shortcom­ings in the hope that any differences will  
black men. and that was all that you need- crap we've been doing?'  be forgotten or pushed aside and I  

T
ed to attend. he fact that the so-called privileged class of blacks at­tended is a sure sign that the evils of racism affect them as much as they affect those of us who dwell in the 
underclass. 
For all the con­
turn from their wicked troversies in­ways; then will I hear from volving
' For all the controver­
heaven, and will forgive Farrakhan, and
sies involving 

I
their sin, and will heal their the lack of support land (II Chronicles 7:14)." Farrakhan, and the lack by the NAACP., I 've never been prouder of think that some­
of support by the 

our black males in all my thing like this life. But I did have one con­NAACP., I think that couldn't have hap­cern. After all these black pened at a better
something like this 

men who have traveled time when black from all over the country couldn't have happened folks are more and and the world came, after more losing their
at a better time when 

they prayed together, trust and hope in 
praised together, loved to-black folks are more and this nation and gether and bonded togeth­more losing their trust ourselves. er. after all this, I wondered And I'm glad to
and hope in this nation 
if anything would change say that at least and God knows we need it. and ourselves.' from my point of 
I watched the whole cere­view, the message mony, and listened intently of the Million Man to over 80 different speakers raging March is still being spread and imple­from Maulana Karenga to Maya Angelou mented. ­to Rosa Parks who was emotionally Farrakhan said his speech and reconciled with my 
A
brothers and sisters because conflict does us no good. nd even a week after that glorious event, I'm still struggling to keep the promises I made that day along with several million other black brothers and sisters, but I feel I need to and I should. 
So now is an important time in our history. It is up to us to decide our fate. Are we willing to do what is necessary. regardless of how dillicult and challeng­ing it might be, or are we going to sit back and do the same kind of crap we've been doing? 
I don't have the answers and I doubt that any one man, woman or child does, but I think if we are willing to do the right things according to God, and are willing to put our differences aside then we can never fail. 
Whether garbage man or doctor, privi­leged class or not, we have to do it together or it just won't happen. The question inevitably remains. are we will­ing to do it? 
Cristiane Likely is a senior Living in 
Pasquerilla West Hall.  She can be  
reached  over  e-mail  at  
clikely@artin. helios. nd. edu  

GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY
• 000NESBURY 
"To have a grievance is to have a purpose in life." 
-Eric Hoffer 


--------------------~-­

VIEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, October 25, 1995 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Debate over justice and O.J. trial continues 
Racial statements and generalizations found troubling 
Dear Editor: 

regards. 
Let me address them seriatim: and I support O.J. in every. W'll.}', help. but who dl)esn't." Well,<Ukely, wophlyO\l care to ~l(J)la,i~. this flippant and insensitive remark to the thousands of bat..i:w tered women around the country who have been abused by wife-beaters like O.J. Simpsl)u? It is pathetic if you can't see that O.J. Simpson needs more than just .:~(}me help." Maybe you choose to ignore this fact so you can·u~ O.J. as nient symbol for your own ag~nda. "'~:i ___.. / 
Second, you wrote, "How is it Qnreasonable ,to belie Jeffrey Dahmer can consume human flesh, Mark FUhrman can plant evidence and conspire to convict O.J~_-Simpson?". Likely, you miss the issue. In the Dahmer case, there was overwhelmw ing evidence of his iniqtdt(.lu$_?'cts, whe.r~as with F11h:rman, there was no evidence thathe planted anything. Ce~tainly, Mark Fuhrman is a reprehensible racist, but that hateful fact does not mean O.J. Simpson is innocent. 
Third, you fulminate that ''I'm tired ofpeople condemning me because of their condemnation of O.J. Simpson." Well, Likely, I completely agree with you thatbeing stereotyi>edby one's race is frustrating and insulting. But then why, may l ask, do you use racial stereotypes and generalities in you own column? Your repetitious cry of "not until white people ... " was rude and hypocritical. 
Finally, you are right to feel angry with the way the justice system has all too often failed Black Americans. But celebrat~ ing the acquittal of. in my opinion. an obviously guilty murder· er will not remedy the system's failures. You wrote, "I say that the justice system works pretty well for white people ... " I say you ask the families of Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman. 

JONATHAN UE~:flARP 
4wSnident 
Olfeampus 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to the commentary concerning the O.J. Simpson trial written in The Observer by Cristiane Likely. This commentary's generalizations about white people in America and at Notre Dame cannot go without a re­sponse, for she uses numerous generalizations about whites. 
Likely discusses the polls taken concerning the verdict in Simpson's trial. She talks about how the majority of people who believe Simpson should have been convicted are white. She makes known that she herself "wholeheartedly" agrees with the verdict, and that it is about time an African-American received some justice. 
Likely then goes on to say how this white majority thinks Simpson should have been con­victed because he is in fact guilty. Likely assumes the opposite, stating that she firmly believes in Simpson's innocence. Just as Likely criticizes whites for assuming Simpson's guilt, she should be criticized for assuming his innocence. 
The jury was chosen to decide whether Simpson was guilty or not guilty. They were cho­sen, not Likely or anybody else for that matter, to sit in the courtroom every day listening to all the testimony and learning the facts of the case while ultimately making a decision. The prosecu­tion failed to prove Simpson's guilt beyond a rea­sonable doubt; therefore, he was found not guilty. This is justice to Ms. Likely. 
Likely then cites the Rodney King case as an injustice. The prosecution in that case failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that those of­ficers maliciously beat King, so they were found not guilty. Yet, Likely believes one is justice and one is injustice. She believes one jury was correct and one was not. She is the one basing her opin­
ions on race. I accept both juries' decisions 
because both juries did what they believed was 
right under the laws of this country. 
As I go through life, I encounter many African-
Americans who have endured racism. I under­.stand that they or Likely might be bitter which is justified. However, this gives her no excuse to judge me and my beliefs because of my race. I look forward to the day when people are valued for their minds and hearts rather than for their 
race. 

Likely then discusses how "whites assume they 
deserve respect where black people have to earn 
it." When I meet someone, white, African­
American, or whatever, I assume that they 
deserve my respect because they are a human 
life created equal to mine. However, one way a 
person can show me this respect immediately is 
by reaching out to me and wanting to know me 
and my beliefs and ideas. Obviously, Likely will 
never get this chance because she stereotypes 
me as a member of the "resurgence of white 
Americans" who cannot "get over my fear of 
black people." That's why God leads us in dif­
ferent paths and we all have different experi­
ences, so that we may enrich each others' lives, 
learn from each other, and live happily. 
I suggest that Likely rethink her positions and 
hopefully soften her heart to not only members 
of the white race but also the member of the 
human race. Maybe then she can find some 
peace with herself and end this animosity toward 
society. ' 
GREGORY HAAKE Freshman Grace Hall 

StudentS and alum upset with response to O.J. trial verdict 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing this in response to Nikole Sheri Hannah's article on Oct. 10. If I understand your article correctly, you are angry that whites believe O.J. was acquitted because of race when in reality, whites are the ones that are usually reap the bene­fits of an all white jury while blacks in the same situation would probably be convicted. 
Now I am certainly not excus­ing the short comings of our legal system, and "what ifs" concerning the 0 .J. trial are infinite, but I will pose this one question. What if an essentially white jury did see enough evi­dence to send O.J. to jail? I be­lieve your explanation for this would be simple-he was con­victed because of race. Curious, isn't it? You are angry at whites for using an excuse that you seem to base your whole existence on as an American­that unfair treatment based on race is the American way. 
My purpose in this letter is not to discuss the history of race relations in our country and bring up past injustices be­cause what's done is done. Dwelling on the past doesn't solve our country's problems. 
However, I will say that peo­ple seem to have forgotten that the O.J. trial was about two people murdered and not, as Miss Hannah insists, &bout race. I find it difficult to believe that a white man in the exact same situation would not have been put on trial as well. Fortunately, in that situation the "race card" would not have been an issue. 

What saddens me the most is that many people, that you, Miss Hannah, choose to make everything a race issue. If we were in the dining hall and I was looking at you admiring the shirt you were wearing, would you believe I was staring at you because you are black? Would this be another example of the plague you speak of that follows all black people every­where? I have some close black friends that seemed to have es­caped this terrible plague you speak of. 
Does racism exist? Sure it does, and I would never be so bold as to say that the black ex­istence in America is an easy one or a completely just one for that matter. However, you can't fight it by imitating it and ex­pect to get anywhere. 
So in closing, I say to Hannah, stop complaining. If you aren't going to try to help the situation, at least don't em­barrass yourself by emulating exactly what you detest. 
BRYAN SCHNEIDER ND'94 Dear Editor: 

After reading Nikole Hannah's response to how all white Americans feel about black Americans, I was shocked but more disappointed. Her views were prejudiced and seemingly incompe­tent. 
When I actively watched the O.J. trial and then heard the verdict I did not say to myself, "damn a successful black man was not convicted of murder." Rather, I thought "how could a responsible jury decide in four hours, with a large amount of evidence and testimony, that O.J. was not guilty." 
Hannah is correct in her statement that whites are acquitted of crimes, though whites too are convicted for crimes they did not commit. My main problem with Hannah's letter is rooted in the rewards she finds in the O.J. verdict. 
Do black Americans really want to declare a day of celebration because he was acquitted, or because they believe the verdict was correct? 
If you believe O.J. should be acquitted because blacks are not given equal opportunities, you have a completely distorted idea of what the American judicial system is designed to do. These types of decisions are to be decided by the Federal Government and the ideas it embodies. 
Hannah was again correct by writing that no one witnessed the murders. However, in my view, O.J.'s attempted and well publi­cized flee from Los Angeles did not help his not guilty story. To add to the insanity, O.J. decided to refrain from telling his story in court, but after being acquitted, openly answered questions on CNN's Larry King Live. · 
In conclusion, it seems that black Americans want to make the 
O.J. trial a race issue more than white Americans. I definitely sympathize for your American experience, and I think it is ridicu­lous to be judged for your skin. Sure America can be a racist country, but do not use O.J.'s verdict as the solution to the prob­lem. 
If Hannah actually believes that O.J. is an innocent man, then instead of hanging on to the verdict as a win for black Americans, use the verdict to assure you that the American judicial system is fair and just. 
CHRISTOPHER FARRY Junior DjJJon Hall 
Dear Editor: 
I am responding to Nikole Sheri Hannah and her edi-. torial addressing race and the O.J. Simpson triaL I grant to you a margin of my empathy; as a white mem­ber of society, I cannot relate to your hardships as a minority, nor do I pretend to. Blacks on the whole do 
-not receive equal opportuni· ty or treatment in America. undeniably. and for that, your frustration is warrant­ed. 
However, I am not here to applaud you for some· thing already painfully obvi­ous. I fmd the platform from which you have chosen to voice your dissent to be a nauseating one. 
On the basis of color, you align yourself with O.J. Simpson; consider for a mo­ment the man whom you stand beside. O.J. Simpson: 
1 a proven wife-beater, an adulterer, and, as you admit. a possible murderer. As a woman, be silent. As a human being, be silent. You will achieve nothing for your race here; salvage your morals and save your bitterness for a more appro­priate day. MEGAN GREENE Sophomore Lyons Hall 


ACCENT 
Wednesday, October 25, 1995 page 9 
AV\othet side 0 the 





The man behind Domers talks about his recent accomplishments, future plans and love of the Notre Dame community 
Photo courtesy of David Spink 
By BRYCE SEKI 
Accrnt Literary Critic 
!
didn't know what to expect as I began dialing "Domers" author Kevin Coyne's tele­phone numbPr. Would I get a crusty old man who would want nothing less than to hang up on me? Or would I get a young hot shot writer who would proclaim he's the second coming of Ernest Hemingway. Fortunately when the line was answered my premonitions had proved false, as a kind, every­day voice came on and said, "IJello?" Thus the interview began. Mr. Coyne was most helpful and courteous on the phone. 
Hather than having to probe for answers, talking to Coyne was like getting to know a new acquaintance. At times it seemed like Coyne wanted to know as much about me as I did about him. One thing was plain from the get go, Kevin Coyne loves Notre Dame. 
Mr. Coyne resides in Freehold, New .Jersey. IJe was quiek to point out that it's the hometown of Bruce Springsteen. Coyne attended the University of Pennsylvania where he began his writing ca­reer as a journalist for the cam­pus paper. 
After graduating with a degree in history, Coyne and his friends started there own news publication. Unfortunately after a year the paper folded, and Coyne went on to work for various other newspapers. Coyne had greater aspirations than this and embarked on the writing of his first book, "A Day in the Night of America," a non-fiction work on late night occurrences around the country. Totally switching gears and inspired by the Notre Dame fanatics he knew, Coyne set out to write a book chronicling a year at Notre Dame. 
"There are only a handful of schools that are unique enough and special enough to warrant a book on them: the military academies, Harvard and maybe Berkeley," Coyne said. 
Coyne wanted to write not only for alumni but for the ev­eryday person like himself. "Many only know Notre Dame from NBC football coverage on Saturday afternoons. They have a very narrow view of the school. I wanted to show what the school was really about," he said. 
For a years time, Coyne en­grossed himself with every as­pect of Notre Dame. He spoke excitedly when asked for his fondest memories from his Irish experience. "The game against Penn State.... the "Snow Bowl"-that was intense. Being privileged enough to attend Moose Krause's funeral and seeing the awesome display of Old Notre Dame being repre­sented, and Sunday mass at Morissey with Father .Joe Ross. I admire him a lot. You just don't get masses like that any­where else." 
However, his research wasn't always fun and exciting. Coyne left his wife and daughter back home in New .Jersey for the du­ration of the year. "I would stay two or three weeks at Notre Dame, then fly home to .Jersey for four or live days. It was rough." 
Other trying occasions were the SYR's where Coyne chuck­led, "Being thirty three at the time it was obvious that I wasn't a student. The SYR's made me feel really old. Those were the times I really wanted to be back at home with my wife. But, the dances are all part of the Notre Dame experi­ence so I had to be there." 
Looking back, Coyne saw the whole experience very reward­ing. "I feel more attached to Notre Dame than I do to Penn. At Penn it was wonderful and opened up a lot of doors for me, but I felt no connection. 
Certain professors there don't even see undergraduate stu­dents. At Notre Dame they care about you. You belong, whether you like it or not, to a community." 
Coyne's book has been well­received by the public and has gained rave reviews from the likes of the Washington Post and Newsweek. 
When asked how it feels to get a book in print Coyne replied, "The first time around it's cool. One of my friends went and got me the library of congress catalog card with the dewey decimal number. After you see that you know if noth­ing else it'll be in a library for a long time." I don't think Coyne has much to worry about with "Domers" already in its second printing. 
As for the future, Coyne says there is no sequel in the works for Notre Dame. He does still keep in touch with many of the students he interacted with. In fact he has attended the wed­dings of a few of the students, "Kids at Notre Dame are really good about staying in touch," he said. 
His next project is an intrigu­ing theme again, this time go­ing back to Freehold, New Jersey and interviewing six World War II veterans chroni­cling how they have affected America today. 
As our interview ended I asked Kevin Coyne for some words of wisdom for budding writers. 
His reply, "Read constantly and work for a newspaper. Read because it exposes you to different views. Work for a newspaper because it's a real job, you write all the time, and have to deal with the pressures of deadlines. It's a good train­ing ground to learn the voices and how to write down the voices of diverse groups of peo­ple." In "Domers," Coyne has definitely captured the voice of Notre Dame. 

IIIII PHOTO POLL ••• 
cuen 
What did you do over fall break? 


"I stayed on campus and found out that the guy I liked likes the girl I hate." 
Therese Youngblood Sophomore Lewis Hall 
"I volunteered to go to the McDowell Mission in southern West Virgina to assist the Appalachian community." 
Abby Fleming Junior Holy Cr~~ Hall 

"I went on tour with the Glee Club, and sang on 
Live with Regis and Kathie Lee." 
Dave Meffe Sophomore St. Edward's Hall 
"I went home to Carmel, Indiana and made plans for my upcoming wedding." 
Amy Haag Senior Farley Hall 


"I stayed at Notre Dame and arm-wrestled with an alligator." 
.. 
John Gunnigle Junior Hanner Hall 


The Observer· SPORTS 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
..  NOTICES ATIENTION: JOB SEEKERS A FULL YEAR JOB OPPORTUNI­TY FOR AN AMBITIOUS -CRE­ATIVE-CARING-INDIVIDUAL Fr Bob Lombardo, class '79, is recruiting volunteers to help serve at the St Anthony Residence for for­merly homeless men located in New York City. There is a tremen­dous variety of tasks you can help with -ranging from counseling to spiritual and recreational activities. You will be provided with room and board, health insurance, and a stipend of between $150-$200 a month. In addition, you will gain real work-experience and the opportunity to live you faith more fully. Fr Bob will be on campus Thursday from 2-5pm and 7:30-9pm, and Friday from 9:30-12pm and 2:30­5pm, October 26-27, to discuss how you can be a part of this excit­ing project. He will meet with you at the Center for Social Concerns. Stop by, or call Patty at the Center (631-5142) to schedule an appoint­ment. TALBOTS tall sale+nw/mall on Cleveland+mention ad Bed & breakfast, BC game, near UNO campus, 219-277-6832 Stamper BoB & the 4X4's Live at Bridget's Tonight 10:00pm Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days $27911ncludes 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151 Spring Break Travel1-800-678­6386 Spring Break! Panama City! Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21 & 1211511-800-678-6386 Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specialsl111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel1-800-678­6386 WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN 810W4TH MISH. MON THE JAll. FIRM 7:30-9:30 WED OPEN JAM 9 PM THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 2BLKS S. OF 1 00 CTR 255-0458 NEED ID ILOST & FOUND I BIG REWARD for info. leading to the return of bike "taken" Oct. 2 behind Cav. hall: sky blue, schwinn 1 0 spd., 70's model, big sentimen­tal value -call 4-3504 ***** LOST ...... SMALL GOLD HOOP EARRING CALL3709 WANTED * * * FREE TRIPS & CASH * * * Find out how hundreds of students are alteady earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break compa­ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel tree! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­El (800)95-BREAKI WANTED: TWO TICKETS FOR B. C. GAME. CALL 271-0989 HELP WANTED addressing envelopes. Work at your residence in your spare time. $250+/week possible! (310)804-5587 24 hrs. $35,000/YR. INCOME potential. Reading books. Toll Free 800-898­9778 Ext. R-2013 tor details. $40,000/YR. INCOME potential. Home typists/PC users. Toll Free 800-898-9778 Ext. T-2013 tor list­ings.  NEWSPAPER CARRIER: Earn $44/wk and work less than 1 hr/day delivering New York Times, Chicago Tribune and Wall Street Journal to South Quad. Call Joe @ 4-1680. Mary Poppins, where are you? We need a babysitter for Fri. only from 1 0-6pm for 2 adorable kids. In so. end of S. Bend. Call Christy or Kevin. 291-7 482 References need­ed. need roomate 4 2ndsem.call 273­4569monique Babysitter-ECDC student pref­ered. $5.00 per hour. About 6-8 hr. per week. Call Lea 272-5029. FOR RENT HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO 232-2595 THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available tor football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­vate baths. Located in Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 1-800-41 8­9487 ROOM IN QUIET, CLEAN HOME. SAFE AREA. KITCHEN PRIV. FEMALE ONLY. $200/MO. 282-2576. ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 PM & ASK FOR SANDY. Need 1 roommate now & 1 more next sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273­2366 FOR SALE NO Ski Team T-Shirts! .................. ~ --­-----­-­-­-­--­Really cool and only $101 Call Potter@ 232-2955 today!!! Great tor you, your roomie. or Christmas presents! ALPINE CAR CD PLAYER NEW $550 SELL $250 CALL BRENT 273-61 83 FREE: Two chests of drawers­26x32x15; 52x32x15.277-2510. PHISH FOR SALE PH ISH FOR SALE Two Phish GAs for the Kalamazoo show on Oct. 27, 1995 are tor sale. Best otter by this Thursday (26) at noon gets them. Tom x1157 1988 FORD ESCORT Gl FOR SALE,4DR,NC,89500 MILES, ASKING $1600 OBO.CALL YANNIS@6317709 EXERCISE BIKE $65*LG XMAS TREE, ARTIFICL, FLOCKD $55 277. 7263mess. Elect guitar perfect cond $225 abo amp free 273-5380 88 Toyota Tercel, ex! con, 68k. NC, $3500. 277-3503. MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale. Complete system including printer only $499. CallChris at 1-800-665­4392 ext. 9537 NEW P120 S3 VEDI0/2MEG 1.2GIG,16MEG,15"NI MONI­TOR,28.8MODEM SB 16,W95, W95PLUS FOR $3000. 273-6522 after 8 pm. 1988 Suzuki Samarai tor sale call Lisa Zucharias 284-4259 TICKETS A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES. 219-232-0061,24 HRS. TICKET-MART,INC. WANTED GA'S FOR ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. BUY* SELL *TRADE (219) 232-0058-24 HRS. I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306  Me nEad TiKits 2 Navy Call Sean x2153 Hey. I need 2 Stanford tickets, 2 Navy GAs and one USC GA. Call me at X2027. Wanted: 4 tickets together-any home game Wanted: 2 tickets NO-USC Call 1-800-922-BEAR day 1-502-354-8826 collect in evening NEED B.C. Ticket -G.A. or S.A. Please call Anne 634-3445. I NEED BC & USC GA'S CALL 288-2877 I'M DESPERATE for your BC GA's Please call ALISA 271-8346 NEED NAVY TIX! AMY 616-473-2636 I need tickets to BC and Navy. Please call Bryan at 272-4249 need student B.C. ticket. X2074 I NEED BC TICKETS-STUDENT OR GA!!II PLEASE call Megan at x4268 Need BC & Navy tix. Stud/GA's. 282-1638. Need two Navy Tickets Call Lara at x4416 NEED 4 NAVY GA's. Call Paul collect at (216) 974-7142. Need 3 B.C. and 3 Navy GA's Jon -287-0578 I NEED 3 TICKETS FOR BC. FAM­ILY COMING ALL OF THE WAY FROMNJ. CALL DAWN x4990 Need 1 Stud.Tix 4 BC It's tor my little sis! Brian X3410 HELP! HELP! HELP! I NEED TWO STUDENT TICKETS FOR THE B.C. GAME. PLEASE CALL ME AND SELL ME YOUR TICKET. JANICE X2721 NEED 2 BC GA's Kevin @ 273-8709 NEED TWO G.A.'S FOR B.C. call Scott x0652 Need 1 BC Sudent Ticket PauiX4335 INTERESTED IN SELLING YOUR BCTIX? I have a friend who would really like to buy it from you. Call Myron-X1195 We need 2 BC GAs. Please call collect 616-496-4595. Thanks! Badly Needed: 2 BC GA's Please Call Man at 4-1213 Will trade 2 Navy GA's tor 2 BC GA's Sean x11 09 BC GA's For Sale: Call Phil 273-6048 I NEED B.C. GA'S 273-5281 SALE BC STUDTIX 2718154 FOR SALE 4GA-50 YARD LINE TIX FOR BC GAME CALL 271-8154 OR (312) 929-7020 NEEDED: 2 NAVY GA'S; 1 BC STUD; CALL MICHAEL AT 273­4389 PleaseiiiPieaselll Need B.C. Tickets Contact Kevin @1233 Need 1 BC ticket Call Scan, x4479 IN IJIRE NEED: of 2 BC std tix (or GAs) Bob/Billy 273-4212 I NEED BC GA'S BADLY CALL MIKE AT 273-1718 Need 1 BC Stud. ticket. Call Brian at x-3549 if you can help me.  Need BC Tix-Jeff 1828 I need two GA's for BC, call Carrie at 312-404-5590. Desparate alum needs 2 stud. tix for BC, call Tom at 312-528-1482. For Sale: 1 BC stud tix 1 NavyGA chris 287-8648 2 STUDS AND 1 GA NEEDED FOR FAMILY UP FOR BC GAME!!! PLEASE CALL SIMON 273-4674 NEED 2 NAVY GA'S Brian @ X4245 I have 3 student tickets to BCII Call Sean @3664 and leave best otter! URGENTLY NEEDED: BC tix. Willing to Trade: Navy GA's. Molly x3490 Have 2 BC std tx for sale #3959 HELP! I AM AN EAST -ORTHO­DOX TRANSVESTITE WHO IS NOT CONCERNED WITH WEALTH. I'M STUCK WITH 4 BC GAs. MAKE OFFER OF CANNED GOODS. CALL KEITH AT 3482 I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY. PLEASE CALL MEGAN X2638. let's Deal! I need two tickets for the Navy game, GAs preferably. Call Jen at x4965. Need 2 BC GA /Stud., will pay $80 a pair. Please call Brian @ 3322 Need 2 BC GA!stud., will pay up to $80 a pair. Please call Brian 3322 NEEDED BC TICKETS! Students or GA's call Nate at 273-5281 NEED 2 BC GA's HAVE 2 NAVY GA's Willing to trade tix + $ Call Jim at 4x3371 to Make a deal! NEED TICKETS FOR BOSTON COLLEGE. CALL JOE AT 1610. I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC I need BC GAs ... call x3975 BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC Need 1 USC Ticket Student or GA. Call Anne x4896. HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP! I NEED USC AND BC TIX as many as possible, students or GAs please call NORM @ 232-2955 ThanksforyourSupport! B.C. TICKETS WANTED. GA or student. CALL after 5 p.m. 277-4793. GO IRISH . Selling your BC ticket?? Call Kelly@ 277-9695 TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX needed: 1 BC ticket (stu or GA) call dan at 273-6183 if you can help out. thanx. TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX Desperately seeking 3NAVYGAs. Will pay BIG BUCKS. Call Ryan x0566. FOR SALE N.D. GAs call271-9412 s I need B.C. tixll! Either GA or stu­denttix will dol Call Tim at 634­1148 GO IRISH! I NEED USC, BC & NAVY GA'S.272-6306 I NEED NAVY GA OR STUD TIX-PLEASEI X4669 1 NAVY GA NOT STUDENT SECT. BEST OFFER BY THURS AT 5PM. CALL 1841. Willing to trade BC GA tor BC student GA. Call Man @ 273-9650  ••• FOR SALE ••• Four BC GA's Together on 15 yd line Call Bill at291-6216 Need 2 G.A.s for Navy. Call Alison x2511 Need one stu. tix or GA for BC. Call Alison x2511 I need two BC studenttix $30 each, Potter @ 232-2955 Need BC stud and GA tix Eric 233-4435 Need 4 B.C. GA's or stud tix Call Brian x3467 4 SALE: BC STUD TIX X4-3144 NEED B.C. TICKETS!!!! call Chris at 273-4674 Wanted: 4 Football Tickets tor Boston College Game. Call Collect 913-233-5826 Package Deal: Two B.C. tickets on the 40 yd line and two nights at the Holiday Inn downtown. Oct.27,28 one double room Call Allison x1260 LOOKING FOR BC GAs. CALL RACHEL@ X2781. HELP I Desperately seeking 2 GA's for Navy. Call Sarah@ 273-6875. Need 1 Stud Navy Ticket Call Patty@ 4015 Need BC tickets, Call 271-9670 2 Phish tickets for sale for Friday night show at Kalamazoo Call Megan at x3435 I need 2 GA's and 2 stud tix tor Navy call X11 03 ask for Dave H I need tix for BC! student or GA call Beth x27 45 I NEED BC GA'S CALL KEVIN @ 234-2952 NEED: BC Tix-Student or GA call Man 273-9650 TICKET TRADE: Seeking 1 BC GA. Willing to trade 2 Navy GA's. Call 203-264-7164 if interested. Two BC tickets. Call x3247. NEED TWO BC TIX. PLEASE CALL KEVIN AT x2104 IF YOU HAVE ANY AVAILABLE. Need 1 NAVY STar GA Please calli Melissa 1255 Need BC and Navy tickets Michelle X4530 I need BC tix stud or GA!! call meg x4544 I NEED BC GA's I STUD's PAUL X5113 PLEASE!!! # # Need BCtix -Bryan x1919 # FOR SALE 2 BC & 2 NAVY GA'S W/PARK. PASS; ACCOM. AVAIL. IF NEEDED. CALL 277-8340. NEED TICKETS FOR THE BOSTON COLLEGE GAME. GA'S AND STUDETS. CALL JOE AT X1846. NEED TICKETS FOR BOSTON COLLEGE. CALL 4-1854. The Fate of the Entire School Rests in Your Hands!!! If I don't get two tickets tor the BC game, there's no telling what my father might do. Call Brian@ x1741 PERSONAL  000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center We're open for your convenience!! I Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm Sat.: Noon-6:00pm Sun.: Noon-Midnight (closed home football Saturdays) 0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLYll! THE COPY SHOP . LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0 Ann Keough is 2111 Happy Birthday! HEY YOU! Buy my USC ticket before O.J. does. Call1-4872. Josie, Good call on the pint of Harp! Let's stay Irish with $4 pitchers of Killian's tonight. Cactus Jack's. Tonight. Same time. Jack Buy Jen a Honey Brown NOT GOING TO NAVY? Well. the American Cancer Society needs you to donate your ticket for the Pediatric Cancer Patients of Memorial Hospital. Please drop off your ticket book by Tues. (1 0/31) at the CSC. Any questions? Call Nicole@ 4-1318. Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. TRAVEL FREE FOR SPRING BREAK '96 Form a group of 15 and travel FREE + earn $$$ CANCUN, SOUTH PADRE, BAHAMAS, FLORIDA. CARNIVAL CRUISES. Food and Drinks includ­ed. (800)574-7577 ext. 302 HEY ST. MARY's Please HELP! The NDCIBD is collecting USED EYEGLASSES to send to Honduras. Oct. 29 12-3pm St. Mary's Dining Hall SABOR LATINO & EMILY LORD Thursday 1 0/26 1 0 pm Club 23 LYONS F-BALL (& fans): (tarts & strumpets) Is that a dog bowl? Don't worry, wings won't sprout! What's Cheese getting ready for a funeral? MAD DOG. Is it true Lyons could kick your butt? Don't run into too many trees (Shaggy) or have too many TNDCs before Loftus. Good luck! I miss you! Love. PUNKY B Fr. Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C. will dis­cuss Notre Dame's Role in World Catholicism tonite at Fourth Day at 7.30 in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. ALL WELCOME What should I do? Murray-­You're bad--­Love, Frericks Top 1 0 highlights of east coast: 1 0. The Heinz ketchup sign 9. The small, clueless woman wan­dering the top of the Empire States Building. 8. Girls showing things and three brothers at the movies. (Hey, did Beth participate in this activity?) 7. Dicocco's-Sausage, peppers, free shirts. It was just like being in the middle of Schenectady. 6. The sweet taste of victory one sex enjoyed after answering possi­bly the toughest Trivial Pursuit question ever created. 5. Lump and Name (In no particular order) 4. Depositing a fine beverage on a porch somewhere in Pennsylvania. 3. The Dominic family dinner-it just dosen't get much funnier. 2. The wetness that engulfed some Maid of the Mist passengers after their ponchos were rendered use­less by a certain human element. 1. The return home-With a duty tree shop, a run through a lovely part of Detroit, Mad Dog, American Pie, and a memorable oasis stop, it may have salvaged the journey.  
see ClASS I page 12  

Wednesday, October 25 The Observer· SPORTS 
Holtz 
continued from page 16 
appears to be little chance of that. Just dlm't telllloltz that. 
"Boston College scares me," said Holtz, who is still unde­cided about where he will be coaching from. "I know they artJ going to come in here and play an exceptionally fine foot­ball game. They return a lot of people from their defensive line and their line was very good last year. I'm worried about whether we're going to be able to block them." 
In all likelihood, junior tackle Mike Doughty will be able to go, although the solid play of fresh­man replacement Mike Rosenthal will give Holtz a pleasant dilemma. 
"There won't be many changes in the starting offen­sive lineup," Holtz said. 
That seems to indicate that freshman tailback Autry Den­son will get the opening nod again at tailback. 
Status quo will not be the theme for the special teams. "We have been working with Hossum on kickoff returns in 
Hours: 
Delivery 

'Till 1 AM Sun­
273-3890 
Thurs Lunch and 'Till 2 AM Fri Regular Hours and Sat Lunch 11-2 
2-14 INCH PIZZAS-$10.501NCLUDESTAX 
LL THE SOUTH STORE FOR WEEKEND RESERVA 288-3320 
great scores••• 
Kaplan helps you focus 
your test prep study 
where you need it most. 
We'll show you the 
proven skills and test­
taking techniques that 
help you get a higher 
score. 
great skills •.. 
Kaplan has the most complete arsenal of test prep 
tools available. From videos to software to virtual 
reality practice tests with computerized analysis to 
great teachers who really care, nobody offers you 
more ways to practice. 

Classes forming now! Caii1-80Q-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 
/KAPLAN 
practice," said Holtz. "Emmett Mosley will be returning punts this week." 
Mosley will be replacing Scott Sollmann, who has struggled thus far in holding onto punts. However, Holtz is not down on the speedy junior. 
"We've got to get Scott Soll­man on the field more," Holtz said. "We've got to get him the ball more because he is an ex­cellent competitor and he has played very well without the ball." 
Captain Call 
Holtz has decided the time has just about come for the team to finally select official team leaders. 
"We are going to choose cap­tains the week before Navy. I had planned on doing it late in the season. Our seniors have done a nice job, plus, a captain should be the captain at the last pep rally, at the last luncheon, and at the last home game." 
_Great Aspirations 
While he has no plans on end­ing his coaching career anytime soon, Holtz does have plans on what he wants to do once he does leave the coaching ranks. 
"Though I haven't taken any notes, I plan on writing an au­tobiography," Holtz said. ''I'd like to call it something like "The Hest of the Story. I've 

The Obseover/Mike Ruma been through a lot in my ca­Irish head coach Lou Holtz said Tuesday that junior Scott Sollmann reer. needs to get the ball more as part of the offensive scheme. 
New and improved ... 
...But still the same old Club! 
THURSDAY NIGHT OCT. 26TH AT 10:00 P.M. 
SABOR LATINO 
WITH SPECIAL GUEST 
EMILY LORD 
LOCATED lUST OFF CAMPUS ON THE CORNER OF SOUTH BEND AVE. &NOTRE DAME AVE. 
lU-.4015 
WJWD'D Q, li'!}D 

Wednesday, October 25 7:30p.m. Hesburgh Library Audilarum 
....
Sponsored by SARG, the Alumni Association and the Department ofAmerican Studie~a-.J 
---~--------~~~-~-~ 
Wednesday, October 25

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
Class 
continued from page 10 
Hey Colleen-Things are definitely getting rowdy in our room, but I don't care if there's a fire .... 
Rose, you know you're a southerner, just admititl Lauren, I hope it all comes out today. 
• SWIMMING 

Whatley takes over reins at St. Mary's 
Have you ever gone tripping down 80/90? Break out the Mad Dog and let's find out. 
Well, you know little boys are flexible. -Lance 
What's that fish smell? Oh don't worry Scull, that's not us...its the machinery. -BZ 
Does Uranus have an aurora? -T.P. 

My gas light comes on at about a quarter tank. When does yours? Well, mine comes on when you're just running on fumes. Let's not bite the bullet and pay the 4$ for petro. 
Here just fill out this survey and get a free sandwich. -Crazy McDonald's employee "The greatest day of my lite• -Dom 
Tom Kessler-The man, the myth, the leg­end. You were the wind beneath our wings. 
Hey-What do you say we have fun this weekend? Maybe-NAAH.. 
Rexy, that was a nice Irish jig you did the other day. You should have told before, I wouldn't have paid $3 to see Showgirls. 
By LAURIE KELLEHER Spans Writer 
After several weeks of uncer­tainty, the Saint Mary's Belles swimmers finally have a new coach. Coaching the Belles for the 1995-1996 season will be Mike Whatley. 
Whatley's swimming career began early on, skyrocketing as a member of the men's team at the University of North Carolina, Charlotte. Whatley was named to the Mecklerberg Aquatic Club, also in North Carolina. 
He formerly coached The Hickory Swim Association, The Greensboro Swim Association, and The University of Notre Dame. 
Currently, Whatley is a sec­ond year law student at Notre Dame. 
"I'm looking forward to coaching the Belles this sea­son,'' says Whatley. "We have a wide range of talent on this team. I'm looking forward to during practice. Whatley has been and will continue to dedi­cate personal attention to each swimmer during the season. 

Whatley hopes to send more swimmers to NCAA champi­onships this year. A hopeful includes sophomore All­American Allison Smith. 
"We just may send more peo­ple to NCAA's this year,'1 says sophomore Allison Smith. "I hope to see everybody do well. Mike is very enthusiastic about the team." 
Smith placed 11th in Nationals last year, earning her All American status. 
"Mike works with our strokes a lot," says junior Shannon Kelleher. "He uses a different approach than last season's coach Greg Jansen did. We did more yardage with Jansen but we do more strokework with 
Whatley.  We'll  see  how it  
works out on  Friday  at the  
Relay meet."  


working with these women. They are a very spirited group. We will show great improve­

PRINCIPLES of SOUND RETIREMENT INVESTING 
ments over the season." 
Whatley plans on em­phasizing fundamentals of the strokes. The team has been practicing drills and strokework 
If you see sports happening, calli The Observer at 1-4543. 
CANCUN·SOUTH PADR~ ISLAND
+E..-ly booking saviniJI until Nov. 15, 1995
+ 
Guaranteed h-tPrice

+ 
Book eerty for lhelowest Pfite & best properties FROM$ 9 9 ~~=SON $J9'9:s... 


South Padre Cancun 
NotJ: With Pmma City 11verely dimaged hy Hurricane Opal, all space is selling out fast 
1-800-SURF"S UP 
STUDENT EXPRESS. INC. 
$2300 
FLAT MONTHLY FEE! for long distance calls to: 
ELKHART•WAKARUSA BRISTOL•DUNLAP MIDDLEBURY•GOSHEN 
If you're spending more than $23.00 per month for calls to these areas, YOU'RE PAYING TOO MUCH! We can start your service today ... 
START SAVING NOW! 

NO SPECIAL LINE OR I , 
INSTALLATION

I 
I 
CALL USAT

I ! 
1-800-360-4990
! 
Mon.-Fri. 'til8 p.m. 


I 
• 
EVERYONE WILL GIVE YOU THEIR TWO CENTS WORTH, BUT WILL THAT BE ENOUGH TO RETIRE ON? 
T
oday there seems to be an investment expert or financial advisor almost everywhere you turn. But just how qualified are all these experts? 
Peace of mind about your future comes from solid 
planning. From investments and services designed 
and managed with your needs and retirement security 
specifically in mind. The kind of investments and 
services TIAA-CREF has been providing for more 
than 75 years. 
WE'LL HELP YOU BUILD A REWARDING RETIREMENT. 

Our counselors are trained retirement professionals 
who have only you and your future in mind. So you're 
treated as the unique person you are, with special 
needs and concerns about retirement. And that makes 
for an understanding, comfortable relationship. 
With TIAA-CREF, you have plenty of choice and flexibility in building your retirement nest egg-fr-om . TIAA's guaranteed traditional annuity to the investment opportunities of CREF's seven variable 
-~ Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.sM 

annuity accounts. And we're nonprofit, so our expense 
charges are among the lowest in the insurance and 
mutual fund industries.(! That means more ofyour 
money is where it should be-working for you. 
TIAA-CREF is now the largest private pension system in the world, based on assets under management -managing more than $145 billion in assets for more than one and a half million people throughout the nation. 
TIAA-CREF: THE CHOICE THAT MAKES SENSE. 
It's tough to wade through all the "advice" to find a reliable pension plan provider. But as a member of the education and research community, your best choice is simple: TIAA-CREF. Because when it comes to helping you prepare for retirement, our annuities will add up to more than spare change. 
For more information about how TIAA-CREF can help you prepare for the future, call our Enrollment Hotline at 1 800 842-2888. 
Wednesday, October 25 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Price 
continued from page 16 
Is this fair play? Is this how people should play the game: with the single-minded purpose of doing whatever it takes to win? This player, as MVP, was supposed to be the best player in the tournament, the player that all of the young spectators in Houston should admire. Is this the proper idea to present to young people who want to play competitive sports-do whatever it takes to win? 
Of coursll, women's soccer is not the only sport where com­petitive advantages are sought. Offensive linemen on a football team hold on their blocks con­sistently. That's part of the game, I suppose. Helatively minor. 
Defensive players take shots at the quarterback after the ball has been thrown. Usually, if the hit should have been avoided, the ref will throw a nag. Still part of the game. 
What about when a defensive back, knowing that he's been beaten on a deep pass route, tackles the receiver to prevent the big gain? Sure, there's a penalty involved. Many people would say that it's much better to take the penalty than give up the big gain. Who cares about the fact that the quarterback and receiver beat the d-back fairly? A win is a win. 
Everybody who plays sports knows that physical play is part of every game. 
My question is, when does aggressive play become un­sportsmanlike, become a detri­ment to the game, become cheating? Is there a fine line, or is there even a line at all? 
Is it possible anymore to suc­ceed playing a fair game? Can people win on talent and hard work, or has it become neces­sary to bend the rules? 
So now there are kids who will learn to play the game of soccer by using the Tarheel defender as an example. Oh, well, I guess they have to learn sometime. Maybe someday they can play f<,r Carolina. 

Happy Birthday Danielle! 
You're finally legal!. "21" 
• CoLLEGE fooTBAll 

Osborne clears Phillips to play 
By DAVE ZELIO 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
Nebraska star tailback Lawrence Phillips, who was suspended from the team after hitting his ex-girlfriend, was cleared to return to practice to­day. 
Coach Tom Osborne said Phillip won't travel to Colorado for Saturday's game but proba­bly will play against Iowa State on Nov. 4. 
Osborne said Phillips was expected at practice this after­noon. 
The announcement came one month after Osborne initially dismissed Phillips from the No. 2 Cornhuskers because of the Sept. 10 attack on Kate McEwen, a Nebraska women's basketball player. The coach later said Phillips, once a Heis­man Trophy contender, was suspended indefinitely from the teaJ;O. 

"Obviously he made a 'mis­take," Osborne said today. "He knew he made a mistakes when he did what he did." 
Phillips, who pleaded no con­test, is scheduled to be sen­tenced Dec. 1 in Lancaster County Court on misdemeanor charges of trespassing and as­sault. Police said he climbed to the second-floor apartment of transfer quarterback Scott Frost and assaulted McEwen inside. 
"At first I thought he should be dismissed permanently because I thought it was a stalking case or something like that," said Osborne. 
But Osborne said Phillips later told him that he was "out 


Hey Seniors! 
Senior Dog book orders are due THIS FRIDAY, Oct. 27. Bring your photo, poll, and order form to the class office (2nd floor LaFortune) or send it campus mail. 

of conlrol" on the night of the incident. 
He said Phillips has ret.:eived a thorough mental evaluation and is not dangerous to himself or others but a structured envi­ronment is important to him. 
A court order forbids Phillips from having contact with Frost or McEwen. Osborne said that order would not prevent Phillips from practicing with the team under supervision. 
"I guess it's still a court order that he and Scott couldn't go to the movies or something together," Osborne said. 
The coach said Phillips had been receiving counseling and has been required to attend classes. "He's expected to make normal progress toward a degree, which is pretty re­markable under the circum­stances," Osborne said. 
Osborne said that under the point-system he uses for disci­pline, Phillips would have been required to miss at least three games. "He will have missed six before he will be allowed to play," Osborne said. 
He said he did not know how much playing time Phillips would receive against Iowa State. 
"I don't think the university or athletic department did the easy thing" in allowing Phillips to return, Osborne said. "The easy thing would have been to dismiss him. 
"We simply didn't feel it was the right thing to do," Osborne said. "We tried to do the right thing, the best thing for Lawrence Phillips." 
DICIC VITALE IS -•• HOLDING COURT 
Join Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore in welcoming legendary ESPN and ABC-TV college basketball analyst Dick Vitale for two book signings this weekend. 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, October 25 
• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 

Belles find successful formula 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
A 3-4-3 line-up, a new mid­fielder. and a forward line who knows how to test out the op­ponent's goalie early on. If only the Saint Mary's soccer team knew earli~r in their season that this was their formula for success. 
Starring in coach Solomon Scholz's new 3-4-3 lineup is former fullback-turned-mid­fielder senior Rita Juster. Juster, who had not played midfield for the Belles in any of her previous three seasons, was moved to the position after the injury of junior Bridget Keyes. 
Keyes suffered a serious knee injury and is expected to be out for the rest of the season. 
Juster's new position has proved to be an asset to the Belles' lineup. 
"In our game before break against Rockford, Juster was incredible," said head coach Solomon Scholz. "Rita creates speed on the field, which is a major component in keeping the ball in the forward's pos­session. She generates com­munication well." 

it. Our talent really showed in Saturday's game. Prior, we hadn't been able to get it all to­gether. The defense held up, but the offense just could not get the ball in the net. Against Rockford, we got the ball in the net. We got the ball in the net three times." 
The Belles' 3-0 victory also stemmed from sophomore for­ward Eileen Newell's goal in the first ten minutes of the game. 
"Rockford was the first time we have ever scored in the first ten minutes of the game," said Newell. "Solomon had told us to test out the goalie early, so that's what I did. Scoring early enabled us to play with a better attitude. We were confident that more goals would come." 
By the end of the half, junior f()rward Lisa Nichols sent the ball flying for the team's second goal. 
"I was really impressed with the forwards' goals against Rockford," said Scholz. "Senior Tiffany Raczynski fired the ball through the net in the second half, which was the most in­credible goal I had ever seen from her. I haven't seen power put on the ball like that in a long time." 
The team will challenge Saint Francis today. Last year, the Belles took Saint Francis into overtime. beating them 3-2. 
"We picked up a lot o[ confi­dence against Rockford," said Newell. "We will use this confi­dence and our new strategies today against Saint Francis." 
the University of Notre Dame Department of Music 
~ presents
}v\ 

DAVID CARTER, cello 
)j 
with NANCY PADDLEFORD1 pia~o 
{ 
7:00p.m. Thursday, 26 October 

Irish 
continued from page 16 
into the big games." 
With wins over Syracuse and Pittsburgh, Notre Dame improved their conference record to 5-0. 
Over the course of the next two weeks, Notre Dame will face four more Big East opponents in Rutgers, Seton Hall, St. Johns, and Connecticut before facing the number one team in the nation, Nebraska. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
SportsTalk -Join SportsTalk on WVFI, 640 AM, on Sunday night at 9:00 when hosts Matt Hoefling and Ken Macek wei· cnme Irish fullback Marc Edwards. 
Please Recycle The Dbseruer 

The Office of International Studies Programs The Department of Classical & Oriental Languages & Literatures 

College Year in 
A1lllil~llll~S) cGJr~e~~ 
1996 1997 

are on sale today at the LaFortune Box Office. $3 for ND/SMC/HCC students, faculty and staff 
MEN'S SOCCER 

• OF INTEREST 

CROSSWORD 
Attention Job Seekers: Fr. Bob Lombardo, class of 
-

'79, is recruiting volunteers to help serve at the St.
ACROSS 34 Stowe character 62 Comic "Dame" 
Anthony Residence for formerly homeless men located 
36 Court &3 Terrier type 1 Real beauty, in 
in New York City. You will be provided with room and
64 Nixon's undoing 37 Hill dwellers old slang 
board, health insurance, and a stipend between $150­
65 Has the nerve,38 Respighi's5 Make sense 
$200 a month. Fr. Bob will be on campus Thursday
in Dogpatch
"--ofRome"

10 Crowds around 
from 2-5 pm and 7:30-9 pm, and Friday from 9:30-12
39 Simon of song14 Hymn word 

pm and 2:30·5 pm to discuss this project at the esc.
40 Last degree 

DOWN
15 Seville tower 
Stop by or call Patty (631-5142) to schedule an
41 Prongs16 Bushy hairdo 1 "New Look" 

appointment.
42 Model wood

11 Free designer 
C.A.S.H. will be offering English as a Second
43 German poet

19 "Make the most 2 Gov. Carlson of 
Language classes on Wednesday nights from 7-8:15 at
45 Tot's wheels

" Minnesota 
the CSC. The frrst class is October 25. Anyone seeking 
47 "Little Women"

20 Cobble 3 Charlie Brown 
to strengthen their speaking, reading or writing skills
surname

21 Tex-Mex treats exclamation 
is welcome. Any questions, call Liz Morlan at 634­
491lk

23 Has title to 4 Is incumbent on 
2639.
50 Debate curbs

25 Play in the water 5 Parthenon site 
Nanovic Center for European Studies presents
53 Plies

26 Attempts to 6 "Zip-a-Dee-
William Pfaff. author and internationally syndicated 
57 Em or Polly

convey ---Dah" 
commentator, who will be lecturing on nationalism.
30 Perfumer's 58ln a fix 1 Defeat 
He will be speaking today at 4:15 in 136 DeBartolo. 
compounds 60 Singer Jacques decisively 
Notre Dame Forum on Academic Life presents
33 Ancient letters 61 "Cheers" perch 8 Bear, in old 
"Doctoral Programs at Notre Dame" sponsored by the
Rome 
Faculty Senate. It will be held today at 7:30 P.M. in
9 Incomparable 
the CCE Auditorium with Edward Conlon
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Chinese 
{Management), Gary Gutting (Philosophy), Graham
hard-liner 
Lappin (Chemistry and Biochemistry) and Thomas
~::.:.+:=-+==-! 11 Pretty zany 
Mueller (Aerospace and Mechanical Enghwering). 
12 Verve 
13 Bar habitues 38 It should be 51 Lie in wait 55 Couch18 Cary of "Bram 
flaky potatoes'
Stoker's 52 Huxley's "Time 
•MENU
spots

39 Equivocated 
Must Have a 41 Fast-food 
Dracula" 
56 Three-handed 
22 Optimistic 
Notre Dame 
card game 

drive--­
54 Mother of24 Used, as a chair 

NORTH SOUTH
42 Kind of acid 
Castor and 59 Get at the 

Italian Beef Sausage Chicken Strips 
~-+"-4---1 26 Sturm und -­44 Rat (on) Pollux weeds 
Roast Pork Loin Macaroniand Cheese 
27Cost 46 Spur 
Sugar Snap Peas Parslied Potatoes 
28 Rich 
attachments ~~::::.+.=-+===4=+=-.j.:::..j 29 Shades 
48 Seven: Prefix Get answers to any three clues 
Saint Mary's 

~~-4=--=-l 31 Shake awake 
so Crane by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
Pasta Bar

~-+"-4---1 32 Kind of energy operators' 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 

Wlih Broccoll Rice Casserole European Vegetable 

page 15 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1995 (!Oor your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope. based on your own date of binh, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 cents a minute.) HAPPY IHRTHDA Y! IN NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: New professional battles will be fought and won. You win out over those people who were initially criti­caL Make wise use of your social connections. Your friendship with a prominent individual could be very good news for a business venture. Be careful not to lose touch with long­time friends as you accumulate wealth; their suppon is a priceless treasure! The romantic happiness you seek could be yours by next summer. 

BILL WATTERSONCALVIN AND HOBBES 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: artist Pablo Picasso,
!>. LOT Of '\1-\INGS Nal3oO'I 1>.51<.'5 \V\E
... At-1\l If ~0\l 0\0NT \-\f\IJE: TO LH-Rl'l
'IOU KNOW, SC.I-\OOL 

singer Helen Reddy, basketball
1>-RE UI<.E TIIP..T 1-\ClW TI-\\NGS 0\lG\-1
AN'H\41NG ... AN\) IV '{OV TOOK t>.Wt-.'1 
player Dave Cowens, model Cheryli>.Ll 1\.\E Tti>.C\\E'O AND AlL 1\-\E 01\-\E.R 
Tiegs. KIDS. \F IT WAS CoMPI.ffi:L'f D\~FERtNT, 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Past deeds continue to bring you
SCI-\OOL WOVLO BE GREt>.T. 
good wilL Break free from recent 
restrictions. Practical matters merit 
prompt attention. Take care of 
minor household repairs before tbey become major. 

'~r. 
~~ , ~ TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): An excellent day for pursuing your
~ 
financial interests. A wonderful deal is handed to you on a silver platter. Although shopping bargains exist, examine sales merchandise carefully. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Working behind the scenes proves profitable. News from those at a dis­
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
tance is helpfuL When old griev­
ances surface, use common sense to resolve them. 
UI-1-0\-\. TI-\A.I f'\E.ANS A.T 
CANCER (June 21-July 22):

TERRI~LE NEWS: 
LEAST THREE I""DRONS WILL 
Confusion could turn a negotiating
1"\'1 WSS ASSIGNED 
session into a sluggish conference
BE. ASSIGNED TO SII'\ILA.R 
lacking in focus. Continue these talks 
1-\E. TO f\ FU~ AND 
another day. A relative or neighbor
PR.OJ"ECTS. YOU f'\UST FIND
VA.LUA.BlE PROJE.cT. 
has something special to celebrate. 
TI-lE./'\ AND CRUSH 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Snap judgments or hasty action can upset the sturdiest apple can. Make certain you have all the information you need to make an intelligent choice. A candid discussion with loved one helps relieve financial worries. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A recurring suspicion may be well­founded. Resist the urge to lash out angrily. Seek the middle-of-the-road in word and deed. New professional activities could prove highly rewarding. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Domestic hannony is imponant to your sense of well-being. Avoid tak­ing risks of a monetary or emotional nature. You need to be careful of your reputation. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Go slow until you get the feel of things. Wind up job a~signments already in progress. Ask influential people to support a pet project. An expert's advice can prevent costly mistakes. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A wonderful day for energetic business people. Those in the arts should also enjoy the fruits of their labor. Good deeds bring perks as well as praise. A newcomer sees you in a favorable light. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your personal relationships are in a positive cycle. Reach out to oth­ers. Postponed chores could catch up with you. Pay attention to what needs fixing, especially at home. Make an effon to get more exercise. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A gentle, philosophical mood pre­vails. Let go of outdated thinking. Explore new ideas through study and reading. New demands could be made on you at work. Channel your energies wisely. Avoid showing your ambition openly. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your reputation for fairness plays a prominent role today. Others look to you for leadership. A well-reasoned argument brings you new respect from influential people. Developing your organizational skills will boost your productivity . 
-

SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, October 25 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
• JOCK STRIP 

The Price 
Xavier makes non-conference call 
Of Victory 

D
own in Houston, I saw some of the best play­ers and teams in women's soccer competing against each other, all with a tremendous desire to win. Some teams went about achiev­ing this goal differently than others. 
The University of North Carolina has been a quality program for 
keep the momentum in the Tarheels' favor. On every head ball, there was an elbow in somebody's back. If the Irish completed a string of passes, it was broken up in any manner possible. Every advantage that could be taken was exploited. 
Some say that this is just evi­dence that Carolina has the will to win, or a killer instinct. 
People say that 
.... Football 
vs. Boston College Ocrober 28, 3:30 EST 
r 

Volleyball 
at Rutgers October. 28, 2:00 p.m. at Seton Hall October 29, 2:00 p.m. 
Men's Soccer 
vs. Western Michigan October 26, 7:30 
-
more than a few fouls are a part years; in fact, of the game, and
Dave Treacy
they are the that whatever
Sports Writer 
most dominant you can get program in away with, you 
women's soccer history. Obviously, they know how to win, as is evidenced by their streak of seven straight national championships. But on this particular day, North Carolina took their desire to win to another level. 
In their game against Notre Dame, the Carolina players re­peatedly fouled the Irish in or­der to keep them from execut­ing their game plan. If a Notre Dame player beat her defender, the defender immediately tripped her from behind to 
might as well do. It isn't cheating, just rough, physical play. It's the way to play if you want to stay on top. 
The MVP of the tournament played roughest of all. She felt no qualms about pushing from behind, taking her shots in the air, grabbing a jersey, anything to gain an advantage. There's no doubt that she is an excep­tionally talented player. She just went out of her way to stop her player in any way possible. 
see PRICE I page 13 
.... • VOLLEYBALL • fOOTBALL 
Jovial Holtz
Irish salvage break with two Big East wins 

still wary
By MICHAEL THOMPSON both the_ advantages and disad­
Sporrs Writer vantages that come from the 
losses. 

Over the course of Fall "It's always difficult to lose," 
of Eagles 

break, the Notre Dame volley­she said. "But we want to look 
ball team dropped four match­at the losses positively. We got By TIM SHERMAN 
es. All four losses, however, to see what we will be up Associate Sports Editor 
came at the hands of ranked against in the NCAA tourna­
teams. ment and the heightened level It's truly amazing what one 
week can do for a man's mind­
On October 12-14, Notre of play." Dame participated in the Geor­Despite the long and difficult set. Lou Holtz is the perfect gia Tech Invitational. Georgia road trip for the Irish, once example. 
Just a week ago, the NotreTech, ranked 22nd in the na­they returned to the JACC it Dame coach was still smartingtion, -was Notre Dame's first was back to business. Syracuse from his team's rather lacklus­opponent. The Yellow Jack­was the first victim as the Irish ter play against a 24 point un­ets(16-5) defeated Notre Dame showed new signs of life and 
derdog and cringing at the
12-15, 15-17, 15-11, 15-12. confidence. Notre Dame took prospect of having to face one
and 20-18. care of the Orangemen in On Sunday, the Irish had to straight sets, 15-3, 15-3, 15-1, of the nation's top five teams. face Texas once again. Four allowing only seven points to be He wondered aloud if his Irish 
truly had a prayer of staying weeks ago, Texas handed the scored by the Big East oppo­with the Trojans of SouthernIrish their first loss of the sea­nent. . 
son, and once again the Sunday afternoon, Notre California and had an overall 
attitude of pessimism. 

Longhorns' arsenal of kills was Dame was back on the mark Yesterday, however, fresh off too much for the Irish defense. again. In their four game 
a wonderful win over USC,
The Irish lost to the now No. 8 match the Irish showed much Holtz was anything but sullen.
Longhorns, 15-11, 11-15, 15-enthusiasm and made few er­Jovial was more the word for10, 16-14. rors. 
The next two opponents Pittsburgh showed up with a the day. 
looked to be the second and fired up and hungry team and When asked about his neck­
ware for next week, the Irishthird most difficult opponents made a run in game three, but coach was quick with a quip.
on the Irish schedule this year. the Irish finally put down the "Hopefully nothing, exceptStanford and Long Beach State attack in the fourth. 
maybe my wife," Holtz joked. 

proved why they are ranked "Syracuse and Pittsburgh 
The one thing Holtz wantsthird and fifteenth, respectively. gave us opportunities to work least wrapped around his neck 
Stanford defeated the Irish 11-on specifics," Brown added. 15, 15-4, 15-7, and 15-5, while "They got us back into the up­is the distinction of losing to 
Boston College for the thirdLong Beach State had a little swing. Syracuse presented no 
more trouble in their victory, real threat, but Pittsburgh put straight year. 
winning 15-7, 9-15, 15-5, and pressure on us. That gives us a Coming off a 49-7 drubbing 
at the hands of Army, there15-11. little more experience to bring
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
Sophomore Angie Harris and the Irish went 2-4 over the break. Coach Debbie Brown ~ees 
see IRISH I page 14 see HOLTZ I page 11 

Women's Soccer 
• New St. Mary's swim coach 
a;

vs. Xavier October 2'i, 7:00p.m. 
see page 12

vs. Bosron College October 27·, 7:30 
~ 

SMC Sports 
•• •Nebraska star Phillips set to return 
Soccer at Sr. Francis College October 25, 3:30 ~ see page 13 Volleyball vs. Sr. Xavier College Ocrober 25, 7:00 •Belles' soccer finds right formula 
~ 
see page 14 



