
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Glo-Dome 
The lights of the Notre Dame Christmas tree twinkle in the foreground, providing a lively frame for the image of the Dome. 

Existing levels of asbestos 
....

pose little threat to caiDpus 
By CORRINE DORAN News Writer 
While some buildings on campus con­tain the hazardous fiber, students, facul­ty and staff who have seen "Danger" stickers warning of possible asbestos exposure have little reason to worry, according to Scott Knight, industrial hygienist for the Office of Risk Management. 
The stickers, which have appeared this year as a result of new federal regula­tions, have been 

placed in all campus 
in tunnels and in buildings built before tearing things 1980. apart," said Knight. "A new legal stan­"It is mostly places dard came out; you where the public is
FLOOR TILE AND/OR PIPE INSULATION
have to identify all not exposed. The
MAY CONTAIN ASBESTOS FIBERS
asbestos in the entire only people who are
AVOID CREATING DUST
facility. Rather than really affected by
CANCER AND LUNG DISEASE HAZARDS
spending the time this are the employ­
CALL 631·5037 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
and money to do that, we chose to assume that asbestos is everywhere and put up the signs," said Knight. 
"Just because that sticker's there doesn't mean that there is asbestos." 
Asbestos is a carcinogenic agent whose partieles are very minute, according to Lewis Price of the St. Joseph County Health Department and Pollution Control. 
"There is not an immediate threat. It takes a gradual exposure over a time of 20 or so years for there to be a real problem," Price said. 
Areas on campus known to contain asbestos are regularly tested for air qual­ity, according to Knight. 
"There are a few places in a few build­ings on campus that we know have asbestos. The results have always come back negative." Knight eould not specify the buildings but noted that "there is a classroom building and a few other buildings on campus" whose asbestos level is regularly tested. 

Faculty and student exposure to asbestos on campus is minimal. The min­eral, as it is used in building materials, is limited to floor tiles, pipe wrap insulation and ceiling components. 
"When you're walking down a normal hallway, exposure is nil. The only place potential exposure is 
ees like maintenance 

workers and house­keepers who are working in closets and tunnels." 
The university is required by the regu­lations to notify all people who may come into contact with the mineral. 
"If it were to affect the general public, we would be required to inform it as well." 
A list has been compiled to note areas known to contain asbestos and is referred to when building repairs are done, aecording to director of mainte­nance Charles Thomas. 
"We have an inventory of where all asbestos is on eampus and any time ren­ovation or remodeling is done, we work 
see ASBESTOS I page 6 
Moreau exhibit promotes female empowerment 
By JESSICA ZIGMOND News Writ<r 
K. .Johnson Bowles, Director for the Moreau Art c;allery at Saint Mary's College, recently discussed tlw thematic concerns behind "Women in Fear," the Gallery's latest exhibit. Bowles explained that all the pieces in the exhibit relate to the over­wlwlming feeling of fear that troubles many women in Ameriea each day. 
Eaeh work tells its own, unique story, and from these stories, women are able to share-not hide-their feelings of fear. "We share and gain strength through our dialogue," reflected Bowles. 
The exhibit runs through Dec. 8. 
The idea for the exhibit was designed last year when a committee at the gallery reviewed "Hilclaiming the Night," a series by University of Toledo professor Deborah Orloll'. Orloff, who was troubled by a fear of the night, confronted her fear by taking photographs after dark. Bowles, who bneume mortl aware of the issue of fear when she startfld working at an all-women's college, thought that other women could relate to OrloiT's theme. 
"Wiwn I started at Saint Mary's, I was struck by all the signs warning students not to walk alone, and I beeame more aware of women's vulnerabili­ty in today's world," Bowles said. In reference to Orlofrs work, Bowles is eareful to point out. "We arfl not suggesting that students go out into the night to take pictures. Instead, we want them to Sfle that fear ean be confronted." 
Sinee Bowles understood that this topic was uni­vnrsul, she sent advertisements to national art magazines in the hopes of creating an exhibit that would expand nationwide. Bowles said she was amazed at the number of proposals she received. 
see FEAR I page 6 




All the presidents' money 
By MARY KATE MORTON Associate News Editor 
U
niversity President Father Edward Malloy technically made $200,000 last year, but in reality he never saw a dime of it. Malloy's salary is entered in a pool with the pay of other members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross employed by the University. Father Malloy's salary situation is different that of many of the presidents of other private universities. 
In a recent survey conducted by the Chronicle of Higher Education, the financial status of university presidents from across the country were compared in terms of yearly benefits and salaries for 1993-1994. Compiled from Internal Revenue Service Form 990s, which reveal the financial expenditures of indi­vidual institutions, the Chroniele's list details the salaries and benefits of the ehief executive 
see SALARIES I page 8 

.·.·,'~ 1o.r;.il!IUV 
.Grad. Dean (Hatch) 
!'.. -·----·
···:·{·.:,· . 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Friday, December I, 1995 
• 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
'Tis the 
Christmas 

season 
It's that time of year Dan Cichalskiagain. That time when 
Assisrant Accent Ediror 
all the stores put up plastic trees and strings of red lights to remind customers to start buy­ing presents for all those loved ones before all the good gifts are gone. Yup, it's Christmas time, when all the advertisers have a field day with Santa Claus on Coke cans and Absolut Tradition ads in Life and in Rolling Stone. 
Each year the commercialization of Christmas increases. There always seem to be more gift ideas, more home decorating tips, more Martha Stewart "simple" recipes, more kinds of wrapping paper, more televi­sion specials, just more Christmas. 
The stores are decorated earlier every year. (University Park Mall was on top of things way back in November-the 8th to be exact.) Ted Turner colorizes yet another Christmas Movie Classic. NBC promotes "Home Alone" as a "Thanksgiving family tradition." Saturday Night Live reruns its "Christmas Spectacular." Notre Dame students are snug­gled in their beds (or library cubicles) with visions of bowl games dancing in their heads. 
Recently there seems to be an abundant production of Christmas music. Musicians feel obligated to release a Very Special Christmas album of "original and contempo­rary" Christmas tunes. There's the Carpenters' Christmas, Harry Connick Jr. Christmas, a Very Bass Christmas, Boy[s] [To] Men Christmas Interpretations, a Very O.J. Christmas. . . . When will it all end? 
It can end now, if you'd like. Put aside the Waitresses' "Christmas Wrap" and "Dominick the Donkey" and Dr. Demento's Christmas Album. Bring out the Bing Crosby and the Perry Como and the Ray Coniff Singers. 
Turn off this year's Very Special Holiday 
"Rosanne" and Kathy Lee Gifford's Christmas 
Special and Bob Hope's 71st Holiday 
Extravaganza and flip to "A Charlie Brown 
Christmas" or" Miracle on 34th Street" or 
even "It's a Wonderful Life." 
Instead, give the blacklight a rest and plug 
in the Christmas lights. Take down just one 
of the beer posters and put up a wreath. 
Send a Christmas card. 
Christmas has come to mean profits for 
businesses. How can we enjoy the cookies, 
time with the friends and family, and the 
hymns when we're too worried about finding 
a store with the new Grateful Dead album? 
How can we enjoy the beauty of the season 
when we're not sure if the funds left in the 
budget will cover Mom AND Grandma? How 
can we enjoy hours in the library and several 
consecutive sleepless nights studying for 
finals when we know that we're missing both 
"How the Grinch Stole Christmas" and 
"Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer?" 
I've come to find amusement in all this com­
mercialization. To me Christmas is Linus 
standing alone in the spotlight on stage, 
Jimmy Stewart wishing he'd never been born, 
and listening to a traditional rendition of 
"Silent Night" while putting the nice orna­
ments near the top of the tree so the cats 
can't get to them. And I take pleasure in 
Christmas shopping. I like giving gifts to 
other people. It makes me feel less guilty for 
all the times I spent money on myself 
throughout the year. 
So as you head down I-80 or get bumped off 
your flight at Michiana Regional Airport in 
two weeks, think of ways to make this Holiday 
Season enjoyable for you. Celebrate it the 
way you did when you were six. Ask for 
Legos. But remember that Christmas comes 
just once a year. At least until the ad wizards 
come up with some way to change that too. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFf  
News  Viewpoint  
Jamie Heisler  Kristen Doyle  
Tom Moran  Production  
Dean of Local Sports  Kristi Kolski  
Andy Cabiness  Allison Fashek  
Graphics  Lab Tech  
Tom Roland  Brandon Candura  
Dave Murphy  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the As.sodated l'ress. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• Wmn.u AT A GLANCE 
Smoldering Nicaraguan volcano forces evacuation 

LEON. Nicaragua 

The Cerro Negro volcano spewed hot ash, steam and 50-pound rocks 1,000 feet into the air Thursday, blanketing the area with what looked like black snow and sending people fleeing with the few belongings they could carry. 
The likelihood of an explosive, full­scale eruption from the volcano, locat­ed 7 5 miles northwest of the capital of Managua, was not clear. A group of American volcano experts arrived in Nicaragua Thursday to assess the situ­ation. 
But ash from the volcano's continual belching piled up across thousands of acres of fields and forests and on the roofs of peasant huts. 
Trees, shrubs, harvest-ready sugar cane, corn and other crops have col­lapsed under the weight of the ash. People covered their heads with hats or rags; those on horseback resembled desert Bedouins. 
"We are facing an ecological disas­ter. This area will have a hard time recovering from this," said federal deputy Omar Cabezas as he toured the stricken area. 
Civil Defense workers struggling to evacuate families at 
Monarchy finally goes to mass 
LONDON 

Queen Elizabeth II stepped across a centuries-old divide and into London's. Roman Catholic cathedral on Thurs­day, becoming the first British monarch in modern times to attend a Catholic religious service. A few Protestant objectors were drowned out by the cheers of a crowd of some 500 when the queen shook hands on the 


steps of Westminster Cathedral with Cardinal Basil Burne. A congregation of 1,500 broke into warm applause as Burne, leader of Britain's estimated 5.8 mil­lion Catholics, led the queen down the aisle to a specially carved chair. The queen's presence at a Vespers service marking the cathedral's 100th anniversary was, Burne said, an "affirmation of the place that we Catholics have in the nation." In the 461 years since King Henry VIII broke with the Vatican and established the Church of England, relations between Protestant and Catholic often have been turbulent. But an ecumenical spirit has taken root in recent decades, and leaders of the churches have worked toward a rapprochement. 
Beatles anthology selling briskly 

The new Beatles anthology that contains the song, "Free As a Bird," is flying out of stores. In its first week of release, "Beatles Anthology Volume I" sold 856,000 copies in the United States, according to Soundscan, the company that monitors record sales. That makes the "Beatles Anthology Volume I" the third fastest-selling al­bum since Soundscan began measuring sales in 1991. Pearl Jam's last two albums each sold more copies in their first week in the stores. But the Beatles' album is a more expensive double-disc set. The anthology easily eclipsed the previous one-week sales record for a two­disc album, Michael Jackson's "HIStory," which sold 391,000 copies. Sales for the Beatles anthology were fueled by the hype surrounding the three-segment ABC documentary on the band and "Free As a Bird," the "new" Beatles song cobbled together from an old John Lennon tape. 
the foot of the 2,200-foot volcano were frustrated Thursday because the heavy ash, dampened by rain, downed tree limbs that blocked roads. 
About 6,000 people live in the imme­diate vicinity of the volcano, which is dumping ash and soil over a 30-mile radius that includes Leon, a city of 150,000 people 15 miles away. 
The government on Monday began to evacuate people near the volcano, which rumbled to life Nov. 19 after a three-year lull. It declared a state of emergency in the region Wednesday. 
"The water has run out," said Ernestina Delgado, 70, who took refuge with 75 others Thursday in the town of Lechecuagos. "The wells are full of sand and we don't have anything to eat." 
Jairo Vargas, a young peasant from the village of El Porvenir, said at least three families there wanted to leave but could not because fallen trees and limbs left them trapped. 
Vargas reached his brother's farm 
and helped him and his family leave in 

an ox cart piled high with bedding, pots and pans, a 
dozen chickens and a pig. 
Illini mascot okayed in ruling 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 

The University of Illinois' controversial mascot, Chief llliniwek, does not create a hostile environment for Indi­ans, the U.S. Education Department ruled Thursday. But the department's Offi~,:e of Civil Rights also urged univer­sity officials to prevent the controversy over the mascot from creating animosity toward Indian students. The ruling dismayed the small number of American Indians on the campus of 36,000 students, and several vowed to continue speaking out against what they say is a racist mascot. "We're not going to leave a legacy to our chil­dren that we allow them to be depicted as a savage," said Wallace Strong, a Yakama-Nez Perce Indian who is a graduate student and instructor in the education school. University officials, caught between powerful alumni who support the mascot and heated criticism from American Indians, are uncomfortable with the issue and said they hoped "civil discussions" would continue. A non-Indian student performs as Chief llliniwek at half­times of home football and basketball games. He dresses in a beaded leather outfit made by a Sioux tribal mem­ber, wears a headdress made of turkey feathers and paints his face with the school colors of blue and orange. 
Flocks of crows shadowing LaPorte 
LaPORTE, Ind. 

To Kathy Krentz, the birds remind her of, well, "The Birds." "It is spooky," Krentz said of the huge flocks of crows that have taken to roosting in trees around the courthouse and near her downtown store. The crows, which fly in from the countryside each day around sun­set, remind her of the Alfred Hitchcock horror movie about marauding birds that attack a seaside community. "You see these swarms. The sky is just black with the birds that are landing into the trees by the courthouse," she said. The birds, however, are somewhat of a wel­come sight to other downtown business operators. "Truthfully, I really enjoy it," said Art Mauger, manager of Ameripawn. "They come right at dusk. I watch them every night." Even so, merchants can understand why some find them offensive. "There is so much crow drop­pings there, but you have to walk through it to get to the courthouse, so there's not much you can do about it." 

• NrmoHAl WEATHER 
Friday, Dec. 1 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, DAr.. 1. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWealher, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIB AssociSted Press 
Atlanla 69 40 Dallas 77 51 Minneapolis 39 30 

Ballimore 52 35 Denver 64 40 New Orleans 71 43 
Boston 45 31 Hudson, MA 43 30 New York 48 34 Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 52 32 Los Angeles 7 4 55 Philadelpn1a 50 34 Via Associat9d Press Grapt11CSNBt 
4,~,~8~8 ~ ~ u 
Columbus 50 30 Miami 80 62 PhoeniX 78 54 
Friday, December 1, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Arnold Air to host Field Day 
Service group project benefits local children 
By DEREK BETCIIER News Writer 
On Saturday. dozens of Notre Dame's Air Foree HOTC: stu­dmlts will put aside military strategy and dress inspections to host a spndal day for South Bend's underprivileged chil­dren. 
Tomorrow's Field Day is an annual project of the Arnold Air Society, an honorary ser­vice organization within the Air Foree HOTC which is dedi­cated to service and excel­lence. 
Hunning from 9:00 a.m. 
through 1:00 p.m. in Stepan Center, Field Day will be host­ed by the Benjamin D. Foulois Squadron, which is Notre Dame's Arnold Air Society chapter. 
"We'll do service projects a couple of times a month, but this is our most ambitious one," project co-coordinator Kara Winn explained. 
"This is something we orga­nize and we run, versus just participating in something like Christmas in April or someone else's project." 
Field Day was created to give the surrounding communities' homeless and disadvantaged children a day of fun and ex­eitement. 
Field Day will create a carni­val-like atmosphere featuring such activities as a moon 
~~~·~·-·······················································-~~Y. 
, r.r~r;·, .,,r;!'·  The University of Notre Dame Music Department  ~~ ~(<t, 'q  
~  pre~~  ~  
Collegiurn Musicum  I  
featuring the music of  
Guillaumt• de Machaut and Leonel Power  
8:00p.m.  
Friday, December 1, 1995  
Church of Loretto  
~'lJJY.  St. Mary's College  ~  
~;{Jf(~  (note change of venue)  l~&~  

~~~.............".........................................,......Jig~~
'---------------·------·------' 
Special to the Observer 
Leo R. Judy, director of ad­ministrative information ser­vices at Notre Dame, will retire in June 1996 after a career of 
41  years  at  
t  h  e  
University.  

In his cur­rent position since 1980, Judy has b e e n responsible 

for Notre Judy Dame's administrative computer sys­



~~ 0 ~~ 0 ~~ 0 ~~MOOI»>OODOOOOOOO
)Jl t~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~"" ~~. ~ Thr Office of Campus Ministry ~ ~W cordially invites you to join in a joyous evening of music 
~ 
~~ ~ 11} ~i 1'~ 
1 J.~ i~ 
~~ 
andprayer 
~fue 

Christmas Midnight Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart as a member of the Community Christmas Choir 
Rehearsals will be held on Mondays, December 4, 11, and 18 
7:00pm-8:30pm 
Crowley Hall of Music, Room 122 
All agrs arr most wrlcomr to Dr. Gail Walton join us on this joyous celrbra-Director of Music, BSH 
bounce, face painting, relay races, arts and crafts, and much more. 
The event will also feature performances by the ND Air Force HOTC's drill team. the Notre Dame Porn Pon squad. members of the Notre Dame band, Troop ND, the Leprechaun, and Santa Claus. Over forty cadets will be on hand to make sure that things will run smoothly for the 130 expected children. 
While Field Day is organized by cadets from within AAS, others from the campus and community volunteer their support as well. 
Other campus and area establishments also contribute financial support for the day. 
"I just hope all of the kids have fun. That's why we put on this whole day," Winn said. 

Symposium marks Center's anniversary 
By EMILY DIXON 
News Writer 

Marking its 25th anniver­sary, the Center for Pastoral Liturgy will host a symposium December 1-2 to eelebrate the renewal of the church and its liturgy since Vatican Council II as well as to anticipate liturgi· cal movement within the Church in years to come. f< 
The symposium, entitled "To Worship the Living God in Spirit and in Truth", will "bring together pioneers in liturgical scholarship, church leadership and pastoral min· istry" according to Sister Eleanor Bernstein, director of the Center for Pastoral Liturgy. It will be held in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Principal speakers will be 
Sister Mary Collins from The Catholic University of America, considered one of the most sig­nificant voices in American liturgical studies; and Godl'ried Cardinal Danneols, archbishop of Brussels and president of Pax Christi International. 
Recognized in 1971 by the 

U.S. Bishops' Committee on the Liturgy as a eenter of liturgical study and education. Notre Dame became home t'or the Center which has since become a liturgical resource center t'or the church within the U.S. 
Through publications. educational programs and annual pastoral liturgy confer­ences, the Center has achieved its goal of providing a nation­wide network for liturgi~ts. 



Judy to retire after 41 years 
J)·~~ ~ ~ ~4 1~ 
l·~ 
Jl·~~ 
{ll 1? 
~' 
~t
0~ ~ 

terns, including those used in human resources , the regis­trar's office, the accounting office, University Relations, and the office of academic faculties management. His primary duties have involved the suc­cessful design, development, and installation of an informa­tion system integrating the University's administrative departments. 
"We have a family of data bases at Notre Dame that is to­tally integrated. That simply doesn't exist at most universi­ties," said Larry Rapagnani, as­sistant provost for information technologies. "The integration of these systems is on of Leo's truly significant accomplish­ments." 
A native of South Bend, Judy began his career at Notre Dame in 1955 as an operator in the administrative data processing center, using IBM cards and machine record equipment to support the payroll, accounting and registrar's offices. 
Computers were introduced to the campus in the early 1960's, and Judy was at the forefront in using them to en­hance administrative functions. Prior to assuming his current responsibilities he served as di­rector of the processing center, assistant director and director of operations for the computing center, and as a systems pro­grammer and senior software analyst. 
"I suppose my major 'legacy,' as it were, to the University would be the integration of the administrative computing sys­tems," Judy said. "Of course, I didn't do that by myself. I had a lot of good help along the way." 
Judy recalls seeing only one major "foofaraw" in his 40 plus years in information services: in the early 1960's, human er­ror caused a computer malfunction during fall semes­ter registration, forcing classes to be canceled for half a day. 
Active in professional organi­zations, Judy served on the na­tional board for the 1963 Col­lege and University Machine Records Conference and was president of the Michiana chap­ter of the Data Processing Management Association in 1959-60 and 1967-68. 
He received the Notre Dame Presidential Award in 1985. 
.Judy said his four-plus decades at the University have been "rewarding." 
"The people have always been the best thing about Notre Dame," he said. "We always had great cooperation across the board, from general users to the vice presidents to the staff itself." 

lion of till' Lord's birth. 631-5242 ~ le.~ 'OCI00004~NHaooMC»>G~a film 51} ~ film 51} ~ film 51}~ Ill~, ~ 
uo~uo~uo~~ 
Featuring: Hickory Smoked Ribs Hickory Smoked Chicken Fried Chicken Tender Seafood Grilled Steaks Deliciously Thick Pizza 


~~Shadu 
(_·A 
St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet

It:i~ B ., .. ,.,,'""'"' 
277-3143

~~~~~ 
FAMILY STYLE SPECIAL 
All you can eat Ribs and Chicken Dinner $7.49 for groups of 10 or more PERFECT FOR SECTION DINNERS! 
LOCATED ON STATE RD. 23 AND BITTERSWEET CLOSED MoNDAY 

r---~---~-----~------~--~~--~-------­
Page4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, December 1,1995 




' s 
J• 



New location serving ND & SMC 
S.R. 23 and Edison (Edison Plaza across from the Linebacker) 
The Ne-w Number on Cam us... 
":.· i 1'.17.• :­


Thin Is In 
Try our Try I · ·Cheese bread, ou'lllove
Today! 
it. 

I No coupon necessary, just ask for the student special! I

-= L 

Not valid with other offers. 
.J 
;;z-------------­Hours: Sun thru Thurs 'till 1 A.M. • Fri thru Sat 'till 3 A.M. We accept major credit cards... • 
VISA 
Friday, December 1, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Pro-life ad filmed on campus 
By VINCE JNDRIOLO News Writer 
Around the world the Uni­versity of Notre Dame is syn­onymous with Catholic values. So, it comes as no surprise that Notre Dame's Administration Building has been chosen as the backdrop for a television commercial by a Michigan Hight to Life group. 
The spot features a woman climbing tho Rotunda stairs whi111 a narrator says, "making your way through life is a struggle. People tell you what to do, but you have to listen to the voice inside." At the end of the commerdal, a number that offers counseling for women with unwanted pregnancies appears on the screen. 
"We were delighted to have the commercial lilmed here," said Michael Garvey of Notre Dame Public Helations. "The Hight to Life organization is congruent with the values of Notre Dame." 
By MELANIE LAFLIN 
Assistant News Editor 
How should political forces in Chile, Mexico, Argentina, and Brazil deal with interest groups tied up with outdated politics? They must simply not listen to them, according to Gerardo Munck, a visiting fellow at the Kellogg Institute. Munck spoke yesterday afternoon in the lies­burgh Center for International Studies. 
In his speech, entitled "The Politics of Economic Reform: Market-Oriented Reform and Democratization in Chile, Mex­ico, Argentina, and Brazil," Munck raised several sugges­tions as to how political forces should manage the cost of tran­sition from a protectionist type of system to a restructured, global economic model. 
What impact do these eco­nomic reforms have on Latin American politics? "We see a shift in the political matrix. The economic model up to the 1970's was an lSI import sub­stituting model that soon suf­fered a crisis in each country. The time of the crisis depended on the size of the domestic market, Chile and Argentina 
f 

Monck: Shift to global model McCormick 

Saturday, December 9, 1995 LaFortune Ballroom 
8:00PM  A  YEAR  WITHOUT A  SANTA  
CLAUS  
9:00PM  FROSTY THE  SNOWMAN  
9:30PM  THE  GRINCH  WHO  STOLE  
CHRISTMAS  
I 0:00PM  RUDOLPH  THE  RED-NOSED  
REINDEER  
I  :00PM  A  CHRISTMAS  STORY  

;;;~.;P.;P.;P~s.t ~~~~~~~~ 
Free Christmas cool<ies, popcorn and soda will be served. 

c9Y~ 
being affected before Brazil and Mexico," said Munck. 
By 1982, a large debt crisis revealed that the economic model wasn't functioning and that these Latin American countries needed some type of reform. 
"Creating structural adjust­ment programs causes funda­mental implications upon politi­cal groups, "commented Munck. Each country needs "an insulated group of tech­nocrats that can rise above country politics" as well as a "broad centrist type" of political forces to create some type of long-lasting economic reform. 
According to Munck, broad economic changes include changes in labor laws and party/electoral laws. "For democracies· to exist and en­dure certain political policy­
making styles  need to  be  
changed.  
Actors  need  to  be  in­ 

dependent and voice individual demands in the political pro­cess," he added. 
Chile became the first eco­nomic reformer after a con­frontation with opposing forces and an emergence of a force above all political actors. "In 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Mon., Nov 27th 
4:52 a.m. A University employee was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treat­ment of an illness. 
.9:07p.m. A Walsh Hall resl· dent was transported to Memorial Hospital for treatment of a sports injury. 
Tues., Nov. 28th 
11:46 a.m. A University employee was transported by Security to the Student Health Center for treatment of a burn. 
6:09 p.m. A University employee was transported by Security to Memorial Hospital 

Chile, the political force recon­stituted the political arena and improved economic conditions. This occurred with an alle­giance to the political system and an increased vigor and openness inside the political system," said Munck. 
Mexico and Argentina had to deal with more centrist political forces, such as the PHI and Peronist parties. 
According to Munck, reforms were carried out only when these political parties received the power. 
"Unfortunately, an increased disparity of distribution in both societies occurred. Mexico has ruled with a hard hand, exam­ples of which begin with Chia­pas. 
Political changes such as splits between the PRJ leads to a fairly unstable political sys­tem," said Munck. 
Munck is assistant professor of political science at the Uni­versity of Illinois at Urbana­Champaign. His teaching and research have focused on com­parative politics and authoritarianism and democra­cy, with particular emphasis on Latin America and the Third World. 
for treatment of an illness. 

11:30 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of his wallet from an unlocked locker in the Rockne Memorial Bldg. 
Wed., Nov. 29th 

1:55 a.m. An off-campus stu­dent was cited for disregarding a stop sign on Bulla Rd. 
4:06 p.m. A Pasquerilla East resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treat­ment of an illness. 
9:07 p.m. A St. Edward's Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treat· ment of a sports injury. 
5804 Grape Rd. • Indian Ridge Plaza 277-7946 
honored with medal 
Special to the Observer 
Father Hichard A McCormick, John A O'Brien Professor Emeritus of Christian Ethics at the University of 
Notre Dame, has received the 1995 Campion Medal. 
T h e Campion award was established 


in 1955 by McCormick America magazine's Catholic Book Club to recognize people whose faith, chivalry, and literary tal­ent resemble those of the 16th century English Catholic mar­tyr, St. Edmund Campion, for whom the award is named. Recent Campion medalists in­clude essayist Annie Dillard, theologian Mertin Marty, and the Japanese novelist Shusako Endo. 
Father McCormick, a moral theologian who specializes in medical ethics, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1986. A native of Toledo, Ohio, he entered the Society of Jesus in 1940 and graduated from Loyola University in Chicago five years later. He obtained a master's degree from Loyola in 1950 and in 1953 was ordained to the priesthood. In 1957 he obtained his doctoral degree in theology from the Gregorian University in Home. 
In 1973 Father McCormick became the Hose F. Kennedy Professor of Christian Ethics in Georgetown University's Kennedy Center for Bioethics. For the previous sixteen years, he had been a professor of moral theology at the Jesuit School of Theology in Chicago. 
The recipient of numerous academic honors and awards, Father McCormick is a mem­ber of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and past president of the Catholic Theo­logical Society of America. He is the author of numerous books and articles on medical ethics, and his work has been published in periodicals rang­ing from Commonweal and Theological Studies to Sports Illustrated. 
B 
• 
Used books bougi1t and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,CXXl Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: 


$200 
• Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46817 
[219)232-8444 

The directors and members of the Campus Ministry music ensembles , Notre Dame Women's Choir, Basilica Schola, Notre Dame Folk Choir, Notre Dame Liturgical Choir and the Notre Dame Handbell Choirs , cordially invite you to attend an 
Advent Lessons and Carols 
December 3, 1995 7:15pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart University of Notre Dame 
page6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, December 1, 1995 

Fear 
continued from page 1 
"There were hundreds for me to review. I received as many proposals for this exhibit as I had received the whole year." 
Although the selection process for the exhibit was dif­ficult, Bowles stresses that she tried to choose pieces that "rep­resented an overall view of what the proposals reflected about fear." She was also care­ful not to include pieces that fo­cused too much on violence. Since Bowles feels that people are exposed to enough violence through television, movies, and advertisements, she wanted to focus on the consequences of violence. This way, viewers of the exhibit would have to take their time to understand and appreciate the messages in each piece of work in the ex-

Asbestos 
continued from page 1 
very closely with that list. 
"Any and all abatement is done by an outside firm," Thomas said. 
The stickers, according to Knight, are not intended to frighten students but to alert campus staff. 
"The purpose of the stickers is to notify employees not to disturb anything that has a potential to be asbestos. All employees are trained on all 
By RICHARD KEIL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

For the first time, a cash shortage will keep the govern­ment from giving presidential candidates all the federal cam­paign dollars they are entitled to in January-just as cam­paigns enter the most expensive portion of the primary season. 
Campaign officials estimate they may get as little as 60 per­cent of the federal matching funds they are due when the Federal Election Commission sends out the first checks Jan. 2. 
The FEC says it will make good on the unpaid portion as soon as more tax dollars flow in early next year. In the mean­time, campaigns expect to bor­row the missing money from banks -using the govern­ment's guarantee as collateral. 
That means most of the can­didates should have access to the money they expected for the primary crush, although there could delays in bank pa­hibit. Only a quick glance is re­quired to understand an act of violence. However, both time and thought are required to understand an act of fear. 

The theme of fear is expressed through mediums such as photographs (both black and white and color), paintings, collages, prints, and hand-made books. Bowles said the hand-made books are unique in that women used their own crafts to conceptual­ize their emotions of fear. Re­actions to the exhibit have been overwhelming, and Bowles is pleased that so many students have stopped to ask her ques­tions about the different works_. 
"Again, the purpose for art is so that we can have dialogue. Art relates to our everyday lives, and it can relate to stu­dents of all majors," comments Bowles. She encourages all students to view the exhibit, and to feel free to ask her ques­
the information they should know," said Knight. 
The university has never had a full-scale clean-up of the haz­ardous mineral, according to Knight. He said previous regu­lations requiring schools to clean up asbestos classified universities as industries, consequently exempting them from clean-up efforts. 
Despite its presence on cam­pus, many students feel their risk of exposure to asbestos is limited. 
"I don't think there's enough of it around to cause me any damage," said junior Steve 
perwork and the added ex­pense of loan interest. 
"We've already got our loan papers ready to go to the bank," said Scott McKenzie, treasurer for GOP hopeful Pat Buchanan. "Whenever you've got to go to the bank and bor­row money, it's a headache. I'd much rather be receiving the full amount." 
Under post-Watergate re­forms, taxpayers have helped defray the cost of presidential campaigns. The money comes'· from taxpayers who mark the checkoff box on their tax re­turns to designate that $3 go to the Presidential Election Cam­paign Fund. 
The money provides a dollar­for-dollar match for the first $250 each private contributor gives to a qualified candidate during the primaries. And in the general election, the gov­ernment pays the entire cam­paign costs for each major­party nominee -estimated this year at about $60 million each. 
Since the system took effect in 1976, the fund has always tions about any of the featured pieces. 
Bowles is careful to stress that, although there is a risk that the feeling of fear could be heightened after devoting an entire exhibit to that theme, she interprets this exhibit as cathartic. Someone once wrote that "secrecy breeds shame." In this project, women do not hide their fear; instead, they confront and share their fear. She explains that, by showing a variety of pieces in the exhibit, people will take more time and gain a better appreciation for the emo1ion of fear. 
Bowles explains, "We as women have a collective voice. This [exhibit] is both personal and uplifting in that women are confronting their fears and do­ing something about it." The "Women in Fear" exhibit is a unique study in how that "col­lective voice" finally can be heard-and acknowledged. 
Wojcikiewicz. 
"Putting a sticker up doesn't do .too much, but I don't think being around it causes too much damage," said junior Mike O'Connor. 
However, some students do have concerns about the issue. 
"Your environment's very important, of course. I'm not personally concerned with the floor tiles as long as they're not broken. The pipes are wrapped, though, and some­times the tape that covers those is damaged; I'd like to know if that contains asbestos," said freshman John Lowell. 



FEC shortchanges candidates 
Notre Dame rhts Year Golf shoy 
MAke Holiday shontng S.fectal OJ!en Monday-fridny 9am-4jlm 20%-50% off Now throUfjh Dec, 21 EXclusive AJ')1arel and Gifts, Personal Assistance, 
No Crowds No Hassles End-of-season sale, Matl orders Avatlable Enter off us 31 N. near WNDU or call 631-6425 
syectal sale Hours saturday December 2 9am -sym 
had enough money to pay the primary candidates. 
The shortfall this time stems in part from a procedural change in 1991 that requires the agency to first set aside tax dollars for the general election and party conventions before payments are made for the pri­maries. 

The Observer/ Brandon Candura 
Lord of the Guitar 
Notre Dame senior Emily Lord performs at Acoustic Cafe in Lafortune. Lord just released her first CD. 



Happy 
Birthday 
Chuck! 

Friday, December 1, 1995 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Violence delays withdrawal 
By KHALED ZIGHARI 
Associated Press 
NABLUS, West Bank 

Violence erupted in the West Bank Thursday, raising fears of possible delays in thtl planned expansion of Palestinian auton­omy. 
Israeli troops wounded 17 Palestinians in clashes in Nablus and gunmen hiding in an olive grove fired at an Israeli army jeep escorting a Jewish settler bus, wounding two sol­diers. 
Israel said it would temporar­ily suspend its withdrawal from West Bank towns. Army radio said the measure would be in effect only 24 hours, suggesting it was mainly symbolic. Top Is­raeli and PLO ol"licers were to meet Thursday night. 
In the latest unrest, gunmen, believed to be Palestinians, fired from an olive grove at an Israeli army jeep escorting a .Jewish settler bus near the 


1rriA.. Yoorta 
Sweaters.~othing. Jewelry. 
Accessories, and Much Morel Guatemala • Peru • Mexico • NepalThailand • India • Ecuador 
INCREDIBLE PRICESI GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFTSI 
Unl:1elievable Bargain Corner Relocat;ing Bue.iness .... EVERYTHING MUST Go/ 
•Proc.,.,de; from t;.hie corn"r go t-o Guat;..,malan Educat-ion Fund Oth"r donat-ione gr.,at;.ly appr.,ciat.,dl 
(I'm doing t;his alone/ HELP/) 
L.A 

,JilL 

Schedule for Decentber 
domingo, 3 de Diciembre de 1995 
11:30 a.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre Patrick Neary, c.s.c. 
domingo, 10 de Diciembre de 1995 
II :30 a.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre David Scheidler, c.s.c. 
Todos Estan Invitados 
Shaked settlement just west of the Pale:;tinian town of Jenin, which became autonomous this month. 
The ambush followed a day of heavy riots in Nablus, the West Bank's largest city, more rem­iniscent of the 1987-1993 Palestinian uprising than the current era of peacemaking. 
Israeli troops opened lire at stone-throwing demonstrators, wounding 17 people, two seri­ously. 
The street clashes ~rupted just two weeks before Israel's planned troop withdrawal from the city. 
Under the lsrael-PLO accords, Israeli troops are by year's end to leave all Palestinian towns in the West Bank except Hebron, where the presence of 450 .Jews among 120,000 Arabs has caused a delay of several months. 
Until now, the withdrawal had been peaceful and on time, or sometimes even ahead of 
10miles 
LEBANON 
~ 
~\__
/ __10km 
Nabatiyeh 1 ' 
lt ! I • 
Metulla~ 
I ;, 
1 II 
···-J 1 Klryet zo~ J Shmona 
"-~·./ ISRAEL 
~ Hezbollah 
.. .·,r-··-"' :? 
stronghol(dsWJ:~ip '--"' \ 
· LE
Mediterranean :1 Sea 1
-/_
Detail ·Q. Beir 
area ,~.;,~::· 
Israel Securlt 7-+---y Zone Golan Heights 
30 miles 
c:s 
30km APIWm. J. Castello schedule. 
Thursday's events followed a tense overnight standoff be­tween Israeli troops and Samir Zakarneh, a senior figure in the Black Panthers vigilante group in the village of Qabatiya, near Jenin. 
Zakarneh, wanted by Israel, was holed up in a Qabatiya cof­fee shop and refused to surren­der. 




Supporters nominate Yeltsin 
By VLADIMIR ISACHENKOV 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Boris Yeltsin's supporters nominated him Thursday as their candidate for next year's presidential race even though the president has not said whether he will seek a second 

(lMPUSMINISTRY 

UN agrees to end mission in Bosnia 
By LOUIS MEIXLER which aimed to bring human­Associated Press itarian aid to civilians caught 
UNITED NATIONS 
Shutting down a U.N. force that cost billions and failed to bring peace, the Security Council voted unanimously Thursday to terminate its 3 1/2-year-old peacekeeping mission in Bosnia by Jan. 31. 
The council also agreed to close its peacekeeping mis­sion in Croatia by Jan. 15. Croatia had demanded an end to the U.N. mission there. 
The council voted as NATO prepared to deploy 60,000 heavily armed troops to enforce the peace settlement initialed Nov. 21 in Dayton, Ohio. 
The vote brings to an end a 
U.N. mission that cost more than $4 billion, failed to halt the ethnic slaughter and tar­nished the reputation of the world body. 
During the mission, U.N. bans on heavy weapons around the Bosnian capital Sarajevo and other protected enclaves were ignored. Peacekeepers were shot at, held hostage by Bosnian Serbs, and accused of standing by as Serbs overran the U.N. "safe haven" of Srebrenica and murdered Muslims. 
More than 200 peacekeep­ers died during the mission, 
term. 

"Of course, we expect our move will prompt the president to run for a second term," Vladimir Komchatov, Yeltsin's 1991 campaign organizer, said at a party meeting. 
Yeltsin, 64, was released from the hospital Monday and transferred to a sanitarium to continue treatment for heart 
Engagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 55 E. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Fret 32-Pagt Color Catalog 
Toll-Free (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 Internet Catalog at http: llwww.sapeck.com/snptck 
Bed 'N Breilkfilsl Regi~lt y Mlchlana's First-Since 1983 
Enjoy approved, attractive private homes for ND/SMC special event weekends: 
•JPW •Graduation 
219-291-7153 

"The Best Tan 
Under The Sun" 
• Beds, Booths & Euros 
• 
Open 7 Days A Week 

• 
Convenient Hours 

• 
Student Discounts 


Guaranteed satisfaction! 
256-9656 
GW'! &MciiNuY NwK-M.w 
trouble. He says he will make his decision after Dec. 17 par­liamentary elections. 
Thursday's gathering was the beginning of a complicated pro­cess to sign up for the June presidential vote. Yeltsin's sup­porters now have to collect one million signatures to have him formally registered as a candi­date. 
Yeltsin's critics and the media have suggested his two bouts of heart illness this year make him unlit for the office. 
Komchatov, however, insisted the president remains in good shape. 
"You Americans have elected Roosevelt the president of the United States when he was in a wheelchair," he told reporters. "The most important thing is that everything is OK with a person's head." 
At Thursday's meeting, some supporters suggested that Yeltsin remain on the job with­out any elections at all. 
up in fighting among the country's Croat, Serb and Muslim communities. 
During the U.N. mission's troubled history, rifts emerged repeatedly between the United States, which called for tougher action, and Russia, which opposed a stronger use of force. 
European nations criticized Washington for undermining their peace initiatives, which the Clinton administration said rewarded Serb aggres­sion. At the same time, the Americans refused to send their own soldiers to the U.N. operation in Bosnia. 
The changeover to the new force is expected to proceed smoothly as some 90 percent of the peacekeepers in Bosnia simply take off their blue hel­mets and join the NATO-Jed mission. 
The Croatian government had demanded that U.N. troops stationed in a Serb-held area of the country be given a new mandate as an interna­tional force. There are 1,600 peacekeepers in Croatia. 
Diplomats have said an en­tirely new force could be sent to Croatia or peacekeepers there could be given a new mandate and designated as a new force. 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, December 1, 1995 
Salaries 
continued from page 1 
and the five highest paid employees of 4 77 colleges and universities throughout the United States. 
In addition, the survey re­leased the overall expenditures of the institutions for the fiscal year 1993-1994. 
According to the Chronicle, the compilation classifies pay as "all salaries, fees, bonuses and severance payments that each person received" and benefits as "all welfare benefit programs such as health and pension plans." 
For the University of Notre Dame, the pay for Father Mal­loy, Executive Vice-President Father William Beauchamp, professor of history Robert Burns, Kellogg Institute Aca­demic Director Guillermo 0~­Donnell, Provost Timothy O'Meara and provost-elect and dean of the graduate school Nathan Hatch were reported for 1993-1994. 
The survey listed the schools in four categories: Research Institutions, Doctoral Universities, Master's Universities and Colleges and Baccalaureate Colleges, as based on classifications by the 
-..----·------···-­,.I ~-l~ 
I (We offer discounts for NO, SMC students!) 
Rood1idr Service • Jump1tart' • furl Deliveries I Tlrr Changing • Wrecked Auto Tows 
Only 2 minutes from campus! 

We have the lowest prices fn town, and are always there when you need us, 24 hours a day! 
We accept checks and credit cards! 

Don'tGet 
LeftOut 
In The Cold 
Heat is Included in Your Rent! PlusGa5 For 
Cooking &Hot Water 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-Hr. Emergency Maintenance Free Aerobics Classes Attentive Staff Community Activities Pool &Sundeck Clubhouse Air Conditioning Laundry Facilities Cable TV Available Beautiful Landscaping Close to Shopping 

Call or stop by today and we'll show you how great liVing at Hickory Village can be. 
rHlCKORlJ 
DlLLA~Efj 

Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
Carnegie Foundation for the from the ones employed at is needed for province needs, president John Silber's Advancement of Teaching. other universities, stated Mal­which refers to necessities like $400,000 a year, Malloy 
Within the first two cate­loy. missionary programs that likened the presidential task to gories. Research Institutions "At Notre Dame, we take all could not survive without addi­that of a CEO. and Doctoral Universities, the the Holy Cross salaries, in­tional aid from the Holy Cross "University presidents are Chronicle reported the statis­cluding the highest and the family, and poor parishes that like CEOs of large operations tics of twelve Catholic institu­lowest. and put them in a com­rely on the funds from the because of their responsibili­tions that have members of mon pool for the Corby Hall order to operate. ties," he stated. religious orders as presidents. Community." "These salaries help to sub­''I'm not at all critical of the 
sidize our missions in areas salaries of other presidents. In 
Fordham University, a Jesuit At this point, the brothers order to attract top-level facul­institution, reported that their and priests receive a budget ty and administrators, the uni­president, Father Joseph for dining expenses and other versity needs to offer competi­
'The religious order
O'Hare, received no salary or incidentals. "I submit a mod­tive salaries and have the
most likely

benefits. est budget to my religious resources to do so," said 
According to Father Malloy, superior for expenses other receives the funds Malloy. this classification is not an than food," he said. "Many of 
directly rather than
accurate account of the presi­the associates use the same In addition to using the Holy dent's salary. process and others ask for through the president. Cross pool for employee bud­money as needed. I feel it is gets. retirement funds and
I think we have a more
Rather, it reflects a different imperative to be given real missionary work, the Corby' system of allocation of univer­dollars. for all of us." honest approach and Hall Community pledges a gift sity funds. "When you see zero Although they do receive a to the University each year,
that it is good for the 
dollars down on paper. it is stipend from the order. none of usually in the area of
order to see their

simply not true. It only means the Holy Cross employees, in­$400,000. "The total that we that the university in question cluding Father Malloy, actually salaries down on give back to the university is has chosen to deal with the hold paychecks in their hands. more than my salary and that
paper.'

presidential funds differently "I don't get a check from Notre of Father Beauchamp [the sec­than we do here." said Malloy. Dame for $200,000. It goes di­ond highest paid Notre Dame "The religious order most rectly to the Holy Cross Associ­administrator] combined," said
Monk Malloy
likely receives the funds direct­ates and is dispensed from Malloy. ly rather than through the there." "The Holy Cross Community president. I think we have a considers Notre Dame such an more honest approach and What, then, becomes of this important work that as a that it is good for the order to pool of money after employee that don't have enough inde­group, they are willing to make see their salaries down on expenses are distributed? The pendent funds of their own," a significant contribution out paper." Corby Hall Community takes said Malloy. of their own resources to the 
the funds and channels them When questioned about the University," he said. "It is sym­
The system Notre Dame uses into numerous local and na­large salaries of presidents of bolic of the close relationship to distribute salary funds to its tional programs. private schools around the na­between the Association and Holy Cross employees differs A large portion of the money tion. such as Boston University Notre Dame." 
1996 -97 Assistant Rector Applications 
University Residence Facilities 





Are Now Available! 
Office of Student Affairs 315 Main BUilding 
Through Friday, February 2, 1996 
The Notre Dame Bookstore's Annual Christmas Book Sale! 
25% ~Off-All. 
Hardbound Trade Books -Children's Books Computer Reference Book's Many Other Specially Priced Titles Free Gift Wraping ! 

The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" 
Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 

Friday, December 1, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 9 

Marine survives ocean ordeal 
By GHUlAM HASNAIN say goodbye. And he prayed. Associated Press With bags under his eyes and 
a sunburnt face, Lance Cpl. 
KARACHI, Pakistan Zachary Mayo recounted 
lie swam for more than 20 Thursday how, after a strong hours. lie slept, floating on a wind knocked him off the air­life preserver made from his craft carrier USS America, he pants. He thought about his floated alone for 36 hours in the family and how he never got to Arabian Sea until his rescue. 
The aviation maintenance crewman from Osburn, Idaho, had insomnia early Saturday so he stepped outside for a breath of fresh air and a peek at the stars. A strong wind and a jolt from a swinging door knocked him overboard; his shouts weren't heard. 


the five basic facts • • • 
name maJor year dorm hometown 




BORED YET? 
Join COMMUNITIES NO to talk about more New Communities begin January 20, 1996 To sign up or for more information: 
Campus Ministry 103 Hesburgh Library or Badin Hall or call Kate Barrett or Darrell Paulsen at 631-5242 

Do it today .. you'll be worrying about finals tomorrow! 



Co~ties B 
(lMPUS 

1. he Cholle"9e o( f\cl.,lt Ch,.isticmity MINISTRY 
What Time Is It? 

A Public Hearing on the 
"DOOMSDAYCLOCK' 
of the BULLETIN OF THE ATOMIC SCIENTISTS 
December 7, 1995, 
9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
Press conference, 
December 8, noon 
University of Chicago Max Palevskv Theater 1212 E. 59th. Street 
Free, open to the public 
For information call 
(312) 702-2555 

Student march adds to French woes 
By CHRISTOPHER BURNS 
Associated Press 

PARIS 
Compounding France's worst labor crisis in a decade, thousands of university stu­dents marched in cities across the country Thursday to demand more money for edu· cation. 
Utility workers and tele· phone employees joined a transit strike that paralyzed the capital for a seventh day. 
Police said 25,000 university students marched in Paris, demanding an additional $400 million -10 tlmes what the government promised -to upgrade overcrowded univer­sities and hire more teachers. 
The students danced and chanted anti-government slo­gans as they marched across Paris' Left Bank. Two minor clashes were reported. 
Other protests drew thou­sands of students and workers in Marseille, Bordeaux, Toulouse and other cities. 
The transit workers' strike nearly shut down the capital. leaving commuters without trains, subways or buses and causing massive traffic jams in and around the city. 
One of the few trains run­ning, a "Eurostar" linking Paris and London under the English Channel, left the Gare du Nord station only after police intervened to remove pickets. 
Public employees are upset at plans to reform France's 
nearly bankrupt social securi­
ty system and cut a $64-blllion 
government budget deficit 
with wage freezes, layoffs and 
higher taxes. Railroad work· 
ers are worried about changes 
in their pensions. 
The strike is to last until at 
least Friday, when union lead­
ers meet with Transportation 
Minister Bernard Pons. 
The state-owned power company maintained service Thursday despite partial walkouts, but only produced at two-thirds' capacity. 
More postal workers walked off the job Thursday, idling 50 of the nation's 100 distribu· tion centers. Telephone work­ers also joined the walkout. 
The strike may widen Monday if truck drivers heed a call to stop work indefinite­ly. 
Prime Minister Alain Juppe's government continued to stand firm against the union challenge, despite its growing toll on the economy. But French stocks tumbled Thursday on the Paris Bourse, with the closing CAC 40 Index of most actively traded stocks down 1.5 percent. 
In the eastern city of Mulhouse, 7,000 employees of a Peugeot auto plant were laid off because the strike held up the delivery ol' ear parts. 
To avoid a bread shortage in the capital, Paris bakers had to ship in flour by trucks and barges to bypass the rail strike. 


Then join us for a workshop on positive discipline! 
This workshop will focus on disciplining techniques for chHdren of all ages. The presentation wrY emphasize methods for making discJpine more effective, catering discipline to the needs ofyour child, and handling your OWl! emotions in tense situations. There wr71 be an open discussion following the presentation. 
Presented by Alesha D. Seroczynski, MA UnNerslty Counseling Center 
4;00 to 5:30 p.m. Sunday, December 3, 1995 University Vdlage Community Center, 222 East Cripe Street 
APizza llillll' wllclaw lie OIOibhop. Clti:n prtMiod. Ploooo Clll.llm IIIII s,tw11 Dian II~ Mnsby 11631-5242 I J011 JU1 lo lllend. 
~by c.,... A6llstry Mid lkWotlly CociiNfng Cornr 





VIEWPOINT 

page 10 Friday, December 1, 1995 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
" conscience is the guardian in the individ­ual of the rules which the com­munity has evolved for its own preservation." 
-William Somerset Mangham 
• l.lOONESBURY 
"ti!/3UOM8i HERE ATtoOl< ATTH/5, HANK­
B13RNIE'S BYTE 5HAO<,
WE'R8 G&TTING 5CIJR£;S 
J.t/8 TAK& GReATPRIO&OF VISITVR'3&VEN {,(}1-(/L/3 
IN OUR. FIN& UN8 OF
I'M BUIWING TH£ 5/JC! 
INFOTAINMeNT 50PTWAI?£ PRO!?UC75... " 
\ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
"... AU-Or 
a/HICHAR/3 
AVAI/..A!3t& FORPUR­
OIA58 
R/6/-IT 
HeRe.''' 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyb Advertising Manager ........................... john Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean G:illavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller .......... , .................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of eilher institudon. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Edi"tor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 

• EDITORIAL 

Bell~s ti'adiii 
;,, .· /F }iii!. 
>r~::worth·.,,,contintiin
-~~!Y' · :.:._,r<):<
;.:;kk.:""-·· 

What is a Belle? Is she an iron dad fighter or is woman educated in the ces of s · smanship, and passivity? , .·. <, 
In the last few weeks, cant amount of co1nt.r1l'lle'rsv has einerged regarding the curre,nt "Belles" . . , Women at Saint Mary's have come down on both sides of issue. Some believe that the tradition. the ni(:kn;a.me is important and therefore the ··.· ..··•· . . .··· . . ·,. ·. · believe that the name should remain the same ...... , ........, u • ., ...~••r·'· ing of a "Belle" should be redefined. And still that the connotation is demeaning and should be chl!l.n!lted. 
But the controversy lies deeper than a Larger issues were unveiled ,ata . .•.. ·.., . 
campus Wednesday night>Matiy iSsues . •· ... been swept under the carpetwere brought to the forefront the campus. Saint Mary's women are becoming fed up. They . 
are no longer willing to live under the shadow of. . , . 
They are seeking a newldentity. theywant •· ·,.· •·· .. by everyone in the community as intelligent, strong who have valid interests and concerns. 
The frrst step might lie in a new nickname. ' Although only a physicalchange. an~\Vni~knalll,e .· .....· .'.,... , the women of Saint··Mary's the necessaryJ)nsh·· .·... ·.. ,,··,····.··...•..•.• 
momentum towards the right direction. A new·name would instill a pride that SaintMary's students need. Instead of wearing "Irish" sweatshirts, the women of Saint Mary's might feel comfortable sporting tlleir own nicknam11 on their . . . ; 
Connotations of certain names can be a source of · well as a source of weakness. Many athletes at Saint claim that they have made the best of the "Belles" nickname. But it is virtually impos$Ible to redefme a word. . . • 
The nickname debate so far has not been, nor shouJc:ltt become another overblowne¥ercise in.political'.<!orre.t~tn.~esa,;·'<l It should come from within as a source of power. Change the sake of change is a risky proposition at best. Efforts at a real change must be honest, fair, well·planned and 
Clearly, a new nickname.would help to strengthen the 
Mary's identity arid make students feel comfortable with ..h,....,..•,,,,,1 school. And students must be comfortable with their identity and perceive themselves in a positive light before anyone else 
will. Saint Mary's has been 8Jld is now in the midst Qf.an it.le,'nti1LY crisis. A new name, while seemingly trivial, Jll,~ghtbe ..~•. 
step towards solving that problem. · · · . ,,. The tradition of the ..Belles" nickname is one that should be passed on. 
Observer Phone Lines 
63I4542 Business Office 63I-53I3 63 I 4541 Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 63I-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoi~t.1 @nd.edu 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwm.cc.nd.edu 
...'NAAfA 
lD\®'F.AU.... 
• LETTER TO THE Eom.m 

Valuable point with wrong approach 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Cristiane Likely's Viewpoint article on Nov. 15. Likely, you write a very interesting and powerful piece about your feelings for me and my race, and certainly draw some unique conclusions about history. 
Let me begin by agreeing with you that Fred Kelly is as far off base as one can possibly be. I can certainly understand your desire to respond to his column, but I cannot accept the insulting rhetoric that you offer as fact, nor the blatantly racist overtones of the entire article. 
I will not defend the white race's actions of centuries past, nor will I agree upon any moral decision regarding any people when judged upon the color of their skin. I will not defend the Columbus murals in the Main Building, but I will not listen to zealots defame an entire race in the name of understanding and progress. 
Too often do people such as yourself approach a situation of this nature with the proverbial "chip on the shoulder'. How often do you listen to people who insult and condemn you when you are attempting to resolve a conflict? 
I know that I invariably respond well to people who call me "devil" and stereotype me generous· ly as "destructive, evil, deadly, greedy, unjust, jealous, unmerciful, avaricious, bloodthirsty ... " 
What a wonderfully diplomatic stance you take: so open·minded, so willing to work with others to attain a higher goal. if you want understanding, if you seek respect, I would recommend an alter· nate method of going about it. 
Further, you support your opinions with histor­ical evidence that is absolutely true. However, you leave a few things out. Yes, Anglo·Saxon culture did all that you say, and more. 
Yes, many of the things that white people did were deplorable and morally depraved. many of the pervading attitudes of white people were, and still are, harmful and ignorant (i.e.: Kelly's argument). 
However, history is just that: history. We learn from it, we move on. we cannot hold the past wholly accountable to the sociopolitical val­ues of today-we can judge what was done, but we should at least do so realistically and attempt to understand what we judge. . I argue that all cultures did exactly what Europeans did, both in the past and the present. Native Americans warred on rival tribes and took slaves frequently. The predecessors of us white devils, the Anglos, Saxons, Gauls, Celts, etc. warred in Europe long before they set out to pil­lage the world. 

In South America, the Aztecs and Incas built huge empires on the backs of conquered tribes, often sacrificing these slaves to the gods that kept their citizens in line (I believe you men· tioned something about religious oppression in your article as well, Likely?). 
Further, the same Africans that slave traders indeed raped from their homeland, the Easter Asian civilizations (ie: Genghis Khan), and every other civilization in history did the same. It was inherent and normal to want to extend your empire, to conquer other peoples, and to gain materially from these endeavors. 
Not that that makes it right or just, but my point is that it wasn't just the white devils with these ambitions, and it certainly wasn't as if the white race alone perpetuated civilizations built on war, conquest, slavery, and greed. All civi· lizations did the same-Europeans just devel­oped the technology to cross the oceans and do it on a global scale. 
The point I am trying to make is simple. You offer a flamboyant and offensively racist point of View, with a good point to make but without the (ironically) civilized methods to make it. 
You are misinformed about some things, and you fail to contextualize the history that you attack. further, you attack an entire race of peo· pie with sweeping generalizations and ignorant, insulting stereotypes, which brands you no better than, well, Abraham Lincoln (I believe you used "racist Hypocrite?"). 
In any case, I appreciate and understand the point you are trying to make, but I was insulted by the aforementioned flaws in your arguments and offended by your venomous racism. 
I do not deny that European civilization com· mitted acts that are deplorable by today's stan· dards. Please do not deny that other civiliza· tions, other races, did not do the same. 
I do not deny that white civilization is inherent­ly flawed and oppresses minorities relentlessly. Please do not use this as an excuse to spread the same racism you wish to eradicate. I will not sit idly by while someone distorts history to support their inflammatory, hypocritical attack on an entire race of people. 
"Truth is truth, and facts are facts." Yes, they are, but not in the way you present them. Racism is racism, and history is history. 
BRIAN MILLER 
Sophomore 
Carroll Hall 

VIEWPOINT

Friday, December I, 1995 page 11 
• LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Praising 'the good' as a more positive alternative 
Dear Editor: In response to Cristiano Likely's letter of 15 November: 
We believe that multiculturalism is essentially good as a constructive means of informing, and thereby bet­tHring, sudety. However, when it takes on the garb of tho same purist and elitist regimes which it condemns, it nllcessarily becomes destructive, rather than con­structive-not only to its own ideals and goals, but to sudety as a whole. 
This has recently become an unfortunate and de­structive movement by focusing on demands of equali­ty and deference for certain groups. rather than an altruistk quest to create unity in society. 
Awareness is a benefit to all-here multiculturalism has contributed a great deal; however, catering to demands through bitterness and the cultivation of apa­thy for societal unity, as has been exemplified by Likely's letter of 15 November. 
While we do not condone any of the unfortunate mis­statements of Mr. Kelly's letter, we nevertheless defend the status of the murals in the Administration Building as works of art. They should for no reason be subject to censorship in the name of multiculturalism, which ought to promote the diversity of ideas, rather than practiee exclusionary and absolutist tactics. 
This subject is treated very succinctly by Wendy Vestevich in the 13 October issue of the Observer: "By destroying those murals, NASA-NO might as well stand up and declare that those viewing the murals are stu­pid, shallow and extremely impressionable ... there are more pressing minority issues to be addressed than century-old paint on a wall." 
The same edition which calls for destruction of works of art is carried too far in Likely's letter when she groups all Caucasians together in the name of Fred Kelly and calls them "pale-skinned savage white dev­ils ... destructive, evil, deadly, greedy." 
She goes further in quoting David Walker as saying, "Whites have always been an unjust, jealous, unmerci­ful, avaricious and bloodthirsty set of beings. always seeking out power and authority". 
What is noticeably missing from both accounts is the word people. This dehumanizing and degrading approach was used perhaps most notably by Hitler (whom Likely names "the most savage of all devils") in his condemnation of the Jew. 
His propaganda denied them humanity, and claiming that there was no such thing as a "good Jew", sought to exterminate not only them, but all literature and art that was in contradiction to his purist beliefs. Where do we draw the line between his extremist behavior and that of Likely? 
Furthermore, does Likely's collective condemnation of white devils as the source of all evil and destruction hold any ground when she later admits " ... I know there is good in everyone and I know there are good white people ... "? 
If she truly believes this, then it seems, by the law of contradiction, that if there is so much as ·one "good white person", then they cannot possibly be all devils. Her injury to those who do truly strive for goodness, white or not, is immeasurable. 
We do not deny that atrocities have been committed by "white people" in the past, not shall we go so far as to point out equally inhumane acts committed by other groups. 
The bottom line is that humans have been re­sponsible for evil acts since the beginning of their exis­tence on this planet, all equally abominable and wor­thy of eondemnation. It is important to make this dis­tinction: It is not Caucasians that commit savage acts, nor Native Americans, it is people. 
Likely should reconsider pointing an accusatory lin­ger at "our people" because "our people" is her people, too. 
We are all a people that exist, regardless of religion, race, color, gender or sexual preference, as part of the same species. We collectively possess similar tenden­cies-human nature, if you will. 
Within this human nature is a trait that makes humans unique from other species: the ability to know the difference between good and evil, and the power to choose between the two. 
This is the basis for the idea of natural law, and it is evidenced by the common search throughout all civi­lizations for a moral code by which we may live to­gether. Society simply cannot exist if its members con­sistently murder, rape, and steal from one another. 
While those who committed the atrocities mentioned in both Likely's letter and Mr. Kelly's chose to commit evil, we believe that a majority of people have chosen good and will continue to do so, whereas the voices condemning the few who will add to the list of human malevolence by choosing evil will continue to cry loud­er than the voice that praises the good citizen. 

The fact is that we are all human, and therefore have equal potential to be either good people or devils. 
In dismissing natural law as "white man's law", Likely seeks to exempt herself from what is rightfully the responsibility of any citizen of any society to uphold. Whatever ,she wishes to call it, soeietal law is derived from natural law and is essential to the sur­vival of any nation. 
We each have our struggles in adapting to and thriv­ing in societal law, but as long as we desire to receive the benefits that our society provides, it is necessary to abide by them or risk the Unum of E Pluribus. 
Notre Dame is considered to be one of the finest schools in this country, and the students here repre­sent the most intelligent young men and women from many diverse backgrounds. The students here are the leaders of tomorrow and will no doubt have a heavy impact on society. 
Therefore Likely's statements concern all of us. How can we hope to ever eliminate the degradation of any people when such spiteful accusations as hers con­tinue in this day and age? We have a responsibility to each other to become educated, moral and accepting people, regardless of our varying belief systems. This is choosing the good. 
Claiming that "it is the white man who stands ac­countable for the perils of the world" ignores that re­sponsibility, and the perpetuation of such attitudes is in itself a peril for the world. This is not choosing the good. 
Therefore, by participating in the same destructive methods which are the basis of the very atrocities of which she refers, her letter in itself becomes a tanta­mount atrocity. 
NICK BROOKS JOHNNY CRUZ ROSS DAVIDSON MARIANELA GAGO JENNIFER GALLAGHER CHRIS HARTZ THOMAS KAYWOOD STEFAN PELLEGRINI ILIA RIOS LISA SCHMITT DAN SULLIVAN LISA WALBRIDGE ND Architecture '96 
Victim mentality not helpful in solving race problem 
Dear Editor: 
I have been a fairly regular reader of Crisliane Likely's column since its incep­lion. Although I rarely agree with her opin­ions, I lind her (obviously) different view­point to be interesting, and thought provok­ing. However, some of the things that Crisliane wrote in her last article quite frankly seared me, and I would like to offer the following thoughts on the subject. Before I begin, I would like to add that I hesitate to write this letter, in that. by writ­ing it I may be giving undeserved aeknowl-
IHlgement to Cristiano's reemJt article. '~realize, Cristiane, ! did not read Fred h
t at you use your
Kelly's letter very closely, and it has already been column to vent your thoroughly reviewed and frustration, and 1 am 
critiqued in previous Viewpoint sections. 1 willing to accept that hnlieve that one of the some (not all) of your points that Kelly was trying to make. however, was frustration may be jus­
that the Native Indians of tified. I am also willing North Anwriea were prob-to hypothesize that 
ubly somewhat different from thn nobln. pnaeeful your recent column inhabitants portrayed in was written a little too 
tlw l'ilm Dances with Wolvcls. Although the treat-soon after reading an nwnt of the Indians by article that you found European immigrants was undeniably eruel, Kelly particularly disagree-
makes the point that the able.' Indians had already invented warfan~ and slav­ery long before the arrival of the Europeans. The decimation of the Huron at the hands of the Iroquois demonstrates that. if the Indians were not already eapa­hie of genoeide at the time of arrival ol' the 
t•:uropeans, they were certainly quick learnnrs. 
Plmtsl~ note that it is not the purpose of this letter to either justify or pass judge­ment on tlw historieal aetions of others. It is, however, my strong opinion that human­ity as a whole should aspire to stop the future oc:wrrmtee of war and gnnoeide and tlw conditions that provoke it. This, Crisliane, is thn reason why your reeent artidn disturbs me so mueh. 
I IHtVIl often rP.ad artides in whieh Jews claim the Holocaust to be their own rallying point: a symbol that never again will Jews allow themselves to be in such a defense­less position. I prefer to view the Holocaust in a more general sense, as a warning to the world of what can happen if we stand idle while one group of people uses propa­ganda and "pseudo-science" to justify the persecution of another. In all of the cases of genoeide that I have cited above, it is inter­esting to note that an outside observer would probably have had a difficult time distinguishing persecutors from victims. I 
for one would not have been able to easily differ­entiate a German Jew from an Aryan German, and I would never have been able to tell a Huron from an Iroquois or a llutu from a Tutsi. In all of these cases, however, one or both groups man­aged to lind some detail, whether religiously, politically, or anatomi­
cally based. that would set the two groups apart, so that each group could 
call their side "us" and the other side "them". 
I speculate that it was then only a matter of propaganda to stir up the hatred needed to produce bloodshed. In one of your articles, 
Cristiano, you essentially advocated "cho­sen segregation," that is, you stated that you don't understand \\hites, you don't feel eomfortable with them, and therefore, you don't see any problem with blacks and whites choosing to keep apart. This is akin to emphasizing the differences between blacks and whites and setting up a we vs they scenario. 
In your the next article, you argued that whites are responsible for all the problems of the world and therefore deserve univer­sal hatred, and to facilitate that hatred, you dehumanized whites by referring to them as devils and "recessive homozygous mutants". You state that you don't hate whites, and I realize (hope?) that you are advocating neither war nor genocide, but frankly, your mastery of the methods of fostering hatred through propaganda is dis­turbing to me. 

After some consideration, I had to agree that you may have had one valid point, which is that much of the "bad" in this world (eg. nuclear weapons). was brought about by the mostly white, Western world. This, however, is a one-sided view of a much larger picture, since it may equally be argued that much of the "good" in this world (eg. medical advances that have extended human lifetimes by decades) was also introduced by the Western world. The point is that the Western world has made a majority of the discoveries and advances that most influence our lives today.You may argue that many of the advances of the Western world have not benefitted peo­ple outside of the West. 
I realize, Cristiano, that you use your col-· umn to vent your frustration, and I am will­ing to accept that some (not all) of your frustration may be justified. I am also will­ing to hypothesize that your reeent column was written a little too soon after reading an article that you found particularly dis­agreeable. 
Having read many of your articles. I believe I am beginning to see an underlying theme of your column; in response I ask you to please consider the following thoughts. These are diflicult times we live in: it is hard for anyone to get a job these days much less get ahead. This may be a cause of the "victim mentality" that seems to be permeating our society, and there are certainly enough lawyers in our society to give every citizen an abundance of oppor­tunities to prosecute the smallest of per­ceived injustices. I think that the gains acquired by playing the victim are false, however, and are both a symptom and cause of low self esteem. In order to hon­estly take credit for one's accomplishments, an individual must first be prepared to accept responsibility for his or her failures. 
An individual, or group of people, will never progress so long as they blame all of their problems on another individual. or group of people. 
MARK RENNIE 
Graduate Student in Aerospace Engineering 
~ubjugation 

, a universal phenomena in history Dear Editor: I was shocked and dis­mayed to read Cristiano Likely's poorly thought out diatribe in the Nov. 15 edi­tion of The Observer. I would have expected more than rambling vitriol from a serious student. Recorded history is rife with episodes of conqut~st and subjugation not only in Europe but in Asia (by Asians), In the Americas (by Native Americans) and indeed in Africa (by Africans). As Thomas Sowell so elo­quently pointed out in a recent column slavery is not a racial issue. It was a way of life among virtuttlly all peoples until relatively recently (indeed the "White Devils" were among tht~ very first to put an end to this terrible institution) and it was destroyed in the West by the latter part of the nineteenth century. Mauritania, on the other hand, outlawed slavery a scant 15 years ago-though ofl'icials or that country admit that it continues to this day. I think Likely should give more thought to history before she again lets emo­tions rule her public dis­course. 
ROBERT CORLEY, JR.. S1. Louis. MO 

-------~----~------· --~~-~· 
page 12 Friday, December 1, 1995 
• fROM THE BAYOU 

Graduate-finds teaching service challenging but necessary 
looked at my student's mother, and my sourced" school. With this in mind, I want to school's assistant principal, with fear and a hint encourage any potential teacher-in-needed-area­of disdain. program applicant to consider the daily crap that 
I was called out of my classroom to meet with goes on in a lousy school. the parent and principal. I barely even made it It is important to consider what it is like for an to school today, and now here it was ten in the outsider coming from an environment that val­morning and I was dealing with parents. What ues education to enter an environment that could have possibly upset Mrs. Guidry, the moth­couldn't care less. er, so much that she would come up to school in Being a rookie teacher to students who desper­the middle of the day? ately need a great teacher is not easy. But I do 
What had I done? Was I not want to discourage any­

in trouble? Was the assis­tant principal going too blurt out that Mr. Ring does not even have a teaching 
Dave

certificate? Would she announce that Mr. Ring himself just gradu­
Ringated from high school a few years ago and had no clue what he was doing in' a one from applying to Teach For America, to ACE, or to Inner City Teachers Corps. 
Rather I just want to let you know that teaching is a challenging service. 
I certainly did not realize what I was getting myself into around 11 months ago as I filled out service applica­

class room. 
Fortunately, none of that happened. I pulled ofT a pretty good act, hopefully concealing a 23 year old in over his head. Yet what happened was not pleasant. I sat in this lousy, poorly fur­nished school office with an upset parent and my immediate supervisor. 
I had to try to act interested. I had to try to be objective. "I think the problem with your daughter's behavior is" ... 
"Is there anything you think I could do better in the classroom?" And all the while, what was really going through my head was something more like, "What the hell am I doing here?"..."If I was in Chicago ..." 
Certainly, teaching in an under-resourced rural school in the middle of a poor rice plain has not been all it is cracked up to be. It is ser­vice and it has been challenging. 
I do not make much money; I do not receive much respect in the classroom, and sometimes I think the school system itself has more problems than most of my students do. 
Often l get called down to the assistant princi­pal's office to defend my shaky teaching in front of an angry parent. 
l am writing this as I know this is the time of year when many seniors begin to consider ser­vice: many considering teaching at an "under-re­tions. 
I wish I had known more because I think it would have prepared me better to be more effec­tive in the classroom. 
Young teachers need to be ready to hear stu­dents say they hate you. To your face. Young teachers need to know not all parents will be supportive of what you are trying to do in the classroom. And they will tell you this. 
But what one must also realize is that there are schools in this country that so desperately need teachers they will hire 23 year olds without teaching certificates. 
That is, Teach For America was able to find 60 recent college graduates much like myself teach­ing positions in Louisiana alone because there 
were openings in the profession.  Because there  
were 60 classrooms without a  teacher-any  
teacher.  

These classrooms certainly 'had students ready to enter them, but were there friendly and encouraging faces to greet the kids? 
So I encourage anyone considering "volunteer" teaching to consider the realities of what awaits them. But do not merely consider what awaits the teacher, but what would await a child enter­ing an empty classroom. 
Dave Ring. a former Assistant News Editor at The Observer, is now teaching French to high school students in Louisiana. 



Mixing co-ed and single-sex dorms: A disastrous proposition 
If you want NO to have "a few" co-ed dorms, this col­Let me give you one statistic. There were thirteen homogeneity). There is less "objectification" of persons umn is designed to cure you of that malady. I've had freshmen in my hall, and two of us had dates that year of the opposite sex (e.g. no porn, fewer sexual jokes). some experience in that "transitional" setting, and let (not counting blind date SYRs). (Wow, we were lame.) Generally, I've noticed that men are more decent and me just tell you (pardon my French): it sucks. Anyway, Barb Spooner, poor girl, walks into our hall more king to each other when there are women 
My alma mater (Williams College) had exclusively to visit someone. I was sitting in the common room, around. single-sex housing until a few years before I arrived. and I could hear the doors open. Next thing she The advantages of single-sex housing are less imme­Then they decided to give students a choice (to simpli­knows, she is talking to all the guys in the hall. diately gratifying. Temptations of a sexual nature are fy, I talk only of freshman hous-Would anyone in lesser (you might see the advan­
ing). Some housing was co-ed, their right mind some was single-sex. When I place themselves in arrived and got placed in all-male a situation like housing, it was about 3/4 co-ed. Charles that? No. She 
Before I start complaining, let never set foot in me just say that I have many our dorm after that happy memories of that year. Roth day (though she did James, the victim of treachery in recount the story to computer Risk, climbing under her friends , appar­Larry's desk and unplugging his ently.) 
Macintosh. 
A security guard politely asking Minotaur (our foot­ball player) to come down from his perch on top of a pillar, from whence he was drunkenly shouting quotes from "Blood and Guts", Patton across the quad at 2:30 
A.M. Five guys smoking eight packs of cheap cigars in the common room, and then opening the door to let it waft through the hall. 
Out-of-shape Kensinger sprinting sixty yards for a TO; then walking back to the thirty-five and yaking. Larry's date leaving the SYR at 9:30 because she need­ed to go on a "whale-watch" the next day. 
Sound typical? Unfortunately, I have to say, some aspects of single-sex life become worse if much of the campus is co-ed. Clearly, it is easier to meet people of the opposite sex if you're living down the hall from them (my junior year dorm had five guys and thirty­one women, which fell within the legal definition of a brothel). 
But this has clear side effects on single sex dorms. There is no incentive to go meet people in single-sex settings when 00 there are attractive date possibilities right next door. 
I remember (with shame) the Barb Spooner incident my freshman year. In order to understand, I suppose you'll need to know how rarely women came to visit us. 
My point is not merely to confess the lamenosity of my dorm, nor even to proclaim final victory over the stigma associated with living in "East". (We referred to it as the "Scarlet E"). My point is that mixing co-ed dorms with single-sex dorms leads 
inevitably to problems. 
That was my school's conclusion. The experiment in "choice" between single-sex and co-ed housing lasted two years. By sophomore year, my dorm was "neutered" (poetically, they also tore up the puke­orange floor tile and installed carpeting), and by junior year, all housing was co-ed. 
I'm not necessarily saying that I support co-ed hous­ing. I have nothing good to say about co-ed bathrooms (which are disillusional and not erotic at all, believe me). Nor can I support co-habitation, given my re­ligious beliefs. Other than that, it's a close call. 
There are advantages to co-ed housing. Communication between the sexes seems to be improved. Because it's easier to meet (wo)men, the "get-drunk-meet-women" theory tends to be de­emphasized. 
There is more tolerance for diversity, I think (I've noticed that single-sex groups tend to enforce a certain tage in this if you imagine the embarrassing decisions made by

'J'm not necessarily 
drunken, desperate men). Single­saying that I sup­sex dorms don't merely have more port co-ed housing. I "dorm spirit." 
The atmosphere is different inhave nothing good to significant ways. They're almost say about co-ed bath­like families (you didn't choose 
your dormmates, but disowning
rooms...Nor can I sup­
them is somehow not an option),port co-habitation, whereas people in co-ed dorms are more like friends (changeable,
given my religious 

superficial).beliefs. Other than There's something impressive and enduring about a family. It
that, it's a close call.' 
may be boring, but it works. A family, unlike so many .friends 
(think of middle school), cares for its sick and wounded. Families rarely disown, even if they do demand compliance with certain terms. 
The biggest difference I noticed when I arrived here was something about Domers -a certain secureness, a solidarity to them -which I rarely saw at my alma mater (to continue that metaphor, we were like chil­dren of broken families). 
That feeling (secure but sometimes stifling) is Notre Dame's strength and its weakness. Serious thought should be given to its advantages and disadvantages before the single-sex system, which underpins it, is dis­
mantled. But whatever you do, don't go halfway. would be as bad as that.  Not hing  
Chuck Roth is a third year law student. reach him at Charles.G.Roth.6@nd.edu.  You  can  

~--~~~--~--~----~~----------------~----------------~--------=-------------~~----~~~--~--~--­
.Senior Ryan Hoover shot 
l·his way into the Notre Dame record books, but it is his leadership that is Invaluable to the Irish 
By TJM SEVMOUR 

:The problem is, Ryan1 Hoover just doesn't look1 1ike a basketball player. 
Eyes are the most comment­'Nl upon feature for athh~tes., tsupposodly a portal to the 
rlnnp innnr drivn to sueened 1thnt motivatHs thmn. Iloovtw'sl 1eyos only rew~al that he might: ~have been up late at the com-. ,puter lab the previous night. 
,· . The contrast is even more .· ';evident on thP. basketball: ·.. (~ourt. One would expnet tn1 
• !SOH nre, but inst.oad Is grontnd . iby dnop drclns. Insomnia; 
!Comes to mind. ,;; Don't be deceived. though. 
· ·1The somnambulant look bBlies1 n cool tonncity that has pro-: ·!Pellnd tho senior r.aptain into1 itht~ Irish r•H~nrd hunk, nnd r•~-~ :rnalns ttw rmtsnn hn Is n k•~y1 . tdntnrmlruun rnr Not.rn Dnmn's: 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
Prototype Players 

Locating the competition 
Villanova's Kerry Kittles and 

Notre Dame will have plenty of UConn's Ray Allen embody the 
opportunity to tour the East Coast. changing style of play in the Big 
Here's a look at the teams they'll East. 
find. 

By TIM SHERMAN  East has always been sort of an  college basketball's biggest  
Associa[e Spans Edi[or  anomaly in this regard.  stars such as Georgetown's  
One of the more interesting phenomena in sports continues to be how certain conferences, come to be a reflection of the geographic area they repre­ Founded to capitalize on the bright lights and flash of the Northeast's mega-media mar­kets, one would've expected the Big East's style of play to fall in along the lines of life in the  Patrick Ewing and St. John's Chris Mullin. Not surprisingly, both were born and bred to thrive at the half-court game -Ewing in the paint, Mullin from the outside.  
sent. The AFC and NFC Central Divisions, for example, have long been noted for the gritty, hard-nosed style of play that embodies cities like Cleveland, Pittsburgh, and Chicago. Likewise, the NBA's Pacific Division prides itself on an open and free up-tempo style of play, perfectly symbolizing cities like Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Seattle. However, despite the many successes that it has enjoyed in its rather life, the  Northeast: frenetic, fast-paced, life-in-the-fast-lane action. It didn't. Instead, the league evolved into one of the nation's best bystressing a physical and defense-oriented style.. It wasn't pretty, but it was effec­tive The original nine-team con­ference garnered two national championships (Georgetown in '84 and Villanova in '85), and placed teams in the Final Four eight times in the 1980's. In addition, it produced many of  But as the '80's came to an end, so did the Big East's role as college basketball's king. Hangin' and bangin' in the low post was out, runnin' and gun­nin' in the open court was in. But the Big East was too slow to recognize this. The result was a conference­wide drought that has only re­cently come to an end. As is the case with any such trend, there are a number of contributing factors, but two stand out and have somewhat redefined the league:  
Villanova's Kerry Kittles and  Photo courtesy ol Connecticut Sports Information  
Connecticut's Ray Allen. Kittles, a spindly off-guard  Junior Ray Allen is the spark behind the Huskies, inserting graceful athleticism into what had been a bruising conference  
Photo courtesy of Villanova Sports Information The Wildcats' Kerry Kittles is one of the premier finishers in the game, and one of many NBA draft-picks-in-waiting in the Big East.  and Allen, an athletic slasher are the new prototype of player that have put the Big East back in the national limelight. "Everybody is changing their style because up-tempo is in," Allen observed. "Everyone likes to see it. " Surely, youngsters like St. John's Felipe Lopez and Georgetown's Allen Iverson have contributed to the reemer­gence, but elder statesmen Kittles and Allen have de­veloped their own niche, each garnering consensus pre-sea­son All-American honors this season. "You have some NBA talent in this league, even lottery picks in guys like Kittles and Allen," said Hoy a big man Othella Harrington. The rest of the league is in agreement. "Kerry just creates so much for us," teammate Jason Lawson noted. "Teams have to always be aware of him." About Allen, the praise is equally strong.  "Ray Allen is a spectacular athlete," Providence coach Pete Gillen said. "He has a great style. You just shake your head after some of the things he does on the court. He really is the whole package." The most important part of that package has been the abil­ity of Allen to get out and finish on the break. Kittles, though a little more of a shooter, pos­sesses similar skills. Their style of play has slowly swept across the Big East, so much so that three conference members are consensus top ten, if not top five, picks. In addition, squads like Gillen's Friars and Lopez' Red Storm are on the rebound and ready to make national noise soon. But for now, Kittles and Allen are two of the main draws. In fact, a bit of a rivalry has devel­oped among the two. "That whole rivalry thing between us just puts pressure on us but you do tend to appre­ciate the great players" Allen said. "I do pay more attention  to see what Kerry did." "You have to be up to com­pete against him," Kittles said in reference to Allen. "He's hard to guard and one of the best players in the country." But while it is safe to say that the two are fierce competitors on the court, outside the arena it is a different story. "Ray is a great person," Kittles praised. "He's very nice and complimentary and respectable. He's a great guy in every sense of the word. It's a friendly rivalry off the court. " On the court, though, it is sure to be heated, as both the Wildcats and Huskies look to be fighting it out for the confer­ence championship. But as much as the two will be competing for their team. furthering the cause of the Big East is also a concern. "We just want to make sure the Big East gets back on the map," Allen said. "It's satisfying to see the conference on the rise and being a part of that." A big part at that.  


-~---~~----~~----------------~ --~-------~-----~--------~--------------~-----------------~ 
page 2 Friday, December 1, 1995
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 




Changing the trends 
Kerry Kittles and Ray Allen have redefined the Big East 


Hoover 
continued from page 1 
plating the 20-point decimation at the hands of Indiana the night before. "When we get pushed around, guys sometimes get intimidated. We've got to become mentally tougher." 
The game has been over for some 15 hours, yet despite the distraction of the television in his dorm room, you can tell that the loss is what occupies his mind, what is still grating at him. Of course, though, you cannot see it in the deep re­cesses of his eyes. 
"It's frustrating when you're losing," he continued. "It shows character when a team can bounce back, but I don't want (the team) to lose confidence after that loss." 
W
en people think of Ryan Hoover, the most common im­ge is that of his fluid three­point shots. His motion is smooth and compact. And when he's on, it's a thing of beauty. Arc after arc tickling the twine, enough to make him the school's career leader in three-pointers made. 
It's the other side of Hoover that is underappreciated. Shooting guard is often a position populated by prima don­nas, but when he speaks of mental toughness, it comes from experience. 
Similar to most athletes, Hoover, is quick to downplay personal accomplish­ments, insisting that they are subordi­nate to the good of the team. 
"It's hard to enjoy (the records) when you're not winning," he said. 
The difference is, from Hoover it comes across as believable, not the typi­cal towing of the party line. The eyes may not convey tenacity well, but they do a credible job with sincerity. 
The tenacity is equally real, however. Despite the records, his career has not been all roses and romance. 
Too slow to be a true point guard and too small for a shooting guard, he has forged a career in-between, and has certainly proven his worth at both as a regular in the lineup in his four years. 
"Ryan Hoover is one heck of a com­petitor," noted Irish head coach John MacLeod. "He's certainly worked hard to get better defensively since he's been here. It seems like its been a quick four years for him here." 
Hoover has made the most of those years. though, adding a different facet each time be it defense or ball-handling or passing. And the Irish have reaped the benefits, as the win total has improved each year he has worn the gold and blue. 
"We've improved our record every year, and I'd like to think I've had some­thing to do with that," he said. "I want­ed the challenge of coming to a place where basketball was down and trying to bring it up to a national level." 
That opportunity has finally come in his senior season, as Notre Dame aban­doned its traditional independence in favor of the prestigious Big East con­ference. Given his desire to overcome challenges, it comes as no surprise that MacLeod will rely on Hoover to impart a will to win onto his young charges. 
"Ryan needs to provide solid leader­ship," said MacLeod. "He's the one who has to set the example, perform in the clutch. When we get him a look, we know we have a chance to get it in." 

"I want to take the shot," Hoover said. "I don't know if I want to be in that posi­tion, but I know that I'll step up." 
Hoover's leadership transcends the lines on the court, however, and it is here that he may make his most impor­tant contributions to the Irish. 
"I feel that it is my responsibility to 
the young guys develop, because I struggled in the same way when I was a freshman," he said. "It's important that you keep things in perspective." 
As a new member of the Big East, keeping perspective will likely be a diffi­cult task. However, with eyes more mystery than mirror, one would guess that Ryan Hoover has just the right out­look to guide the Irish through new con­ference frontiers. 
And even if that fails, chances are his jumpshot won't. 
The Obserilei!Breont 


LOCATION: Pittsburgh, PA LAST SEASON: 10-18 (5-13) HEAD COACH: Ralph Willard (10­18) KEY PLAYERS: G Jerry McCullough (Sr., 13.3 ppg); G Andre Alridge (Sr., 13.0 ppg); G Vonteego Cummings (Fr.) OUTLOOK: The Panthers have the best freshman class in the 
--------conference and will get a boost from McCullough, a third-team selection two years aQO who missed last season wrth an injury. 
· That means plenty of fresh legs for . Willard's pressing style of play. If : the frosh are ready, they may 
surprise some people. 
LOCATION: Philadelphia, PA LASTSEASON:25-8(14-4) HEAD COACH: Steve Lappas (52-39) KEY PLAYERS: G Kerry Kitties (Sr., 21.4 ppg); F Eric Eberz (Sr., 
15.7 ppg); C Jason Lawson (Jr.. 
12.9 ppg) 

OUTLOOK: It's now or never for the 'Cats. They return almost the 
entire team from last season, and added depth with a strong recruiting class. Kitties passed over the NBA to win a collegiate 
title, and the unpleasant memories :t · his job. Karner, the Croatian : 1 ofthe udpseblloss tfo Ohld KD~m inion ill· ·_:·:•_;_ fsensation, alis anhacckomplishedf th : are un ou tedly res . rtt 1 es, ··... 1oor gener w o ta es care o e , Eberz, and Lawson were all all-Big ::J ball, and at 6'3", he's one of the ';
I

East last season. ·-smallest players on the roster. -. 
~~~~~EiJn....... I ·~ 

__ Gn~~.--D~WN~. ;;~· ~~ijii"i=~~ 
, LOCATION Washinghton, DC 
I LAST SEASON: 21-10 (11-7) HEAD COACH: John Thompson (524-200) KEY PLAYERS: G Allen Iverson 
• (So., 20.4 p,eg); C Othella ; Harrington ~Sr.. 12.2 ppg); F Jerome Willrams (Sr., 10.0 rpg); G . Victor Page (Fr.) 
· OUTLOOK: The onetime halfcourt Hoyas have taken on a new look with the lightning quick Iverson, an explosive athlete guaranteed to beat you if he doesn't beat himself. 
G'town's fortunes rest on whether j ; : · 1Iverson anhd b?ckcfourht mbate Pahge, l' · a sweets ootrng ros , rr.ng.t ·e. ~--·, 
, big men along for the ride. J . w:il!#ii io rliiormw· ·o. • ......~.;;,-....,..,,, ... 
I LASTSEASON: 13-15 I . HEAD COACH: Bob Wenzel (108-/ 
101) KEY PLAYERS: G Albert Karner i _--~ (Sr., 10.3 PPQ); F Andrew 
, Kolbasvsky (Sr., 11.1 ppQ) . . -· OUTLOOK: The Scarlet 'Knights : . · . make the transition from the 
• _---~----I 1 Atlantic-1 0 without seven players
1 from last season's squad, and will , ._ rely heavily on five freshmen. ]·,· Survival is the name of the game,
•J · · I especally if Wenzel hopes to keep · 
•.• LOCATION: Coral Gables, FL · LAST SEASON: 15-13 (9-9) , 
HEAD COACH: Leonard Hamilton I . (49-93) ' KEY PLAYERS: F Steven 
I Edwards (Sr., 12.8 ppg); G Kevin 
• Norris (So., 3.6 apQ) 1 ·.· OUTLOOK: A onetrme conference
l: .__-.·•· doormat, the Hurricanes made the 
, : ·.' NIT last season after spending : ,;;: their first two years in the league · >• winless. Norrrs is a creator at the 
,'• _., 
J_ 
'i ' 
· guard spot. but Miami is small and lacks a proven clutch scorer. No one would have thought three ycearstagto thpat the graddubaetion of f. 
0 1 
ons an rn opa w u .._,
considered a loss. 
11 :_, .. riioio<Midii.~~·~i~~~ 
. 
! 
! , i 
, 
._ ~ around the Big East wars long
: : enough to be dangerous every
1 
· I night. Danny Hurley is competent . ~ but never escaped his brother's 
l LOCATION: Storrs. CT LAST SEASON: 28-5 (16-2) HEAD COACH: Jim Calhoun (190-96) 
ij kEY PLAYERS: G Ray Allen (Jr., ... 21.1 ppg); G Doron Sheffer (Sr., 
11.1 ppg); C Travis Knight (Sr., 8.2 
6oh.ooK: The Huskies are 
· legitimate NCAA contenders, and have been tops in the league for the past two seasons. Allen is a silky swingman who is a national player of the year candidate -he can beat you a number of ways. 
, Sheffer, an Israeli, is a deadly ··· marksman with court savvy, while Knight is no longer a pushover in i the middle. 
LOCATION: South Orange, NJ 
LASTSEASON: 16-14(7-11) I HEAD COACH: George Blaney : (16-14) i KEY PLAYERS: G Dann_y Hurley 
1 
(Sr., 13.8 ppg); F Adrian Griffin (Sr.. 
15.3 ppg) 
OUTLOOK: The Pirates are a :power in decline, but have been 
shadow. The Hall as a whole is solid but lacks the highlight-film mfatheria1that chAaratcterizes lhj3t_ rest 
o t e 1eague. s e 1ar recrur rng class would have helped, but here height doesn't translate into talent. 
. 
: 
::' 
11 
~~­
_. · 

iDiliiDJ.EI 

! LOCATION: Chestnut Hill, MA , 
LAST SEASON: 9-19 (2-16) ' HEAD COACH: Jim O'Brien (127-I ! 146) I KEY PLAYERS: F Danya Abrams I 
1 

(Jr., 22.1 ppg); F Bevan Thomas 
1 

(Jr.. 7.8 ppg) 
; OUTLOOK: Dayna, Dayna, : Dayna. Abrams, a preseason first · team all-conference selection, is 
· the true definition of a go-to guy. He's all the Ea(lles have to go to. BC has no senrors and will have to . rely on freshmen in the backcourF not a good mix. They can only 
' 

hope that 6'9' soph. Mickey Curley becomes the reincarnation of his famed brother Bill. 
LOCATION: Jamaica, NY LAST SEASON: 14-14 (7-11) HEAD COACH: Brian Mahoney (45-42) KEY PLAYERS: G Felipe Lopez (So., 17.8 ppg); F Charles Minlend (Sr., 12.7 ppg); C Zendon Hamilton (So., 11.4 ppg) OUTLOOK: The Red Storm epitomized talent in turmoil last season, but the graduation of ego James Scott may be a positive loss. This year there is no question that Felipe is THE MAN, especially since the Johnies only look to have him for one more year. If he plays to his potential, he has the supporting cast to help. 
-· . . -­

iif~ ..... -~ ,.~:...:.; ~. '~,;.:;;..:..;.,,4, ••:.....0..-.•• ~~i.;~;.;..:: ;-_fl;,:."?,o, :0.~ ,0., M': .I '' ~. 
~PROVIDENCE I 
LOCATION: Providence, AI I LAST SEASON: 17-13 (7-11)! HEAD COACH: Pete Gillen (17­. 13) 
KEY PLAYERS: F Austin Croshere (Jr., 10. ppg); G Michael Brown (Sr., 3.9 apg); GGod Shammgod (Fr.) OUTLOOK: Gillen has yet to work his Xavier magic with the Friars, but the steadily improving Croshere gives him a foundation, and should soften the loss of Eric Williams to the NBA. If frosh phenom God Shammgod plays up to his name, Providence may literally find itself in hoop heaven. 
~....y..&)!'.>1/<lfM.Jil'.: 1· ~ · . •:.,. ·:·~ ~ ..• ; ·~ ·~ .._ i•.:.o.." , ~ -• .I· 
,i 
..•.., 
: 


Observer Illustration IbDMol&a...­

Friday, December 1, 1995
page 4 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 






"The Most Popular # on Campus" 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's I University Villaue 271-1177 271-7272. 
'Papa John's is excited about IRISH BASKETBALL!' 
Notre Dame 
Saint Mary's Store Hours Store Hours* 
Mon-Th Mon-Sat
I lam-lam I lam-lam
Fri-Sat llam-3am 
SundaySun Noon-lamNoon-lam 

r -----, r -7Jart;"/'a'Ck -, r Laie'N!FBS;ieci8r , r Ci'rgeflopping , r -Luncr'§p;crar , 
I Large I I 4Large I I Large I I Bread Stix I I 1Small 2Topping I 
I 1Topping Pizza I I 1Tppping Pizzas I I 1Topping Pizza I I 2Cokes I I 2Cokes I 

l $695 .. ll $2295~ l: $5~~.:. : : $1000.. : : $695 -: 
L-----...1 L-----...1 L-----.J. L-----...1 L------...1 
*From I :OOam -3:00am (Fri/Sat Only) Call the ND Store for Delivery Service 



Name of game for Irish no-names is opportunism 
W
ithoutadoubt, .-------,1987, who knows the Big East is what miracles Gary a basketball Bell and Doug Gottlieb conference. Forget can pull off this year. Miami in football or The beauty of Notre UConn in women's Dame's 1995-96 sea-soccer. Notre Dame's son is no one expects new affiliation is fa-much. That's including mous because of a the new opponents. hoop with a net. Mike Norbut When Georgetown's 
Athletes such as Sports Editor Othella Harrington is Kerry Kittles, Ray worried about stop-Allen and Felipe Lopez are the ping Syracuse's John Wallace, reason the Big East is strong. Matt Gotsch might slam in his Notre Dame and its unknown face. Pete Miller will pick names pale in comparison. Allen Iverson's pocket while 
That may not be a bad thing. he looks ahead to schooling 
In his "Slam Jam Basketball UConn's Doron Sheffer. Preview," ESPN's Dick Vitale It takes a couple of strong only mentioned Notre Dame as halves to get a win over some a new member, and then went of the stronger teams. It takes on about G'Town, Villanova one hot weekend to become and UConn, all ranked in the the Big East champions. But top ten to begin the season. let's not get carried away. 
Hey, the Irish are a .500 The Irish often have played team headed into Saturday's to the level of their competi­conference opener at Rutgers. tion. In fact, a lot of times 
Basketball's a funny game. they've played a notch below. It's not like football. where the Just look at Dayton and Butler. stronger team generally gets Things are looking different things together in time to win. this year. Not that one game's Anyone can get hot or cold on any indication, but Notre the court, which means a few Dame beat Akron last Satur­Ryan Hoover threes here and day in a game they were sup­some Keith Kurowski jumpers posed to win. Some Big East there could mean a couple of games fit that category too. upset wins down the line. Notre Dame could go .500 by 
It's bound to happen. Notre winning the normal affairs. A Dame always manages to do it few upsets. and fans could be once or twice a year. Look at looking at post-season play. UCLA two ye_ars ago and Indi-The element of surprise is a 
ana last season. good one and can happen 
If the Irish can knock off No. more than once. When it 1 Carolina and get an overtime comes around, Notre Dame spark from a freshman named has to capitalize. Joe Fredrick to beat Duke in The results could be Big. 
.· 

The Observerrrom Roland 
II T»:r busH EnRA S1'MF 
Editor: Tim Seymour Managing Editor: Tim Sherman Associate Editor: Mike Norbut Graphic Design: Tom Roland and Chris Mullins 

It PEERlESS PROGNOSTiCATORS 
College basketball is $rying its best to become the new rage at Notre Dame, and suddenly experts about the Big East abound. The Irish Extra staff tries its hand with the roundball, mak­ing their selections for how the Big East stacks up. 
Villanova  St. John's  Villanova  
UConn  Villanova  G'Town  
G'Town  UConn  UConn  
Syracuse  Syracuse  St. John's  
Pitt  G'Town  Syracuse  
St. John's  Miami  Providence  
Providence  Providence  Miami  
wvu  Notre Dame  Pitt  
Notre Dame  Pitt  Seton Hall  
Miami  B.C.  BC  
Seton Hall  Rutgers  Notre Dame  
B.C.  Seton Hall  Rutgers  
Rutgers  wvu  wvu  











ACCENT 

Friday, December 1, 1995 page 13 
Procrastination: The Ungainly Art 
pro cras'ti nate, v.i.; procrasti~ated, pt.,pp.; procrastinating, ppr. [from L. procrastina­tus pp. of procratinare; pro, for, forward, and crastinus, belonging to the morrow, from eras, tomorrow.] to put off doing something until a future time; to postpone or defer taking action. 

clip your toenails paint your toenails BITE YOUR TOENAILS waterproof your leather shoes E-MAIL take a purity 
test (http://phenom.physics.wisc.edu/ ~ fosdai/Purity/) take a personality test (http:/ /sunsite.unc.edu/iembin/mb.pl) M tp:UPt ~ 
make a miX tape make a sc~apbook ca~--D~~e/zl{j/ Sleep play Battleship play air hockey in theGorch Game 
Room volunteer write a letter vacuum CLEAN YOUR ROOM 
make Rice Krispie Treats try to name all of Liz Taylor's husbands three words: Star Wars Trilogy go to Taco Bell make a Christmas list do your Christmas cards ask a random person out for 
coffee at Lui a's play solitaire on your computer count 
the IICli/ /io/t•s in !JOUr u>a/1.~ rearrange the posters in 
your room co~or body art 
stare out the window and watch the 
native squirrels go to Chicago 
read The Observer read the Scholastic and take a nap bUild a hOUSe decorate a Christmas tree 
watch the IIGodfather" trilogy watch 
"Hrady Hunch" reruns DRJ N K 
SOME MORE call your 
grandparent(s) TAKE A 
WALK AROUND CAMPUS 
meditate smoke listen to your favorite CD over and over again eat 
watch your Chia pet grow balance your checkbook play a 
sport WORK fORT~ OBStRYtR pick your nose get to know yourself WatCh SOap OperaS write another let, terbashingFredKelly call your best friend from kinderg,arten gotoanSYR drink again 
figureouthowmanyplaneshaveto 
crash for Notre Dame to win the National Championship Victoria ,s ~iecret find Waldo 9 ive blood sit and stare think start alight with your roommates Plav the lotterv speak in tongues FLOSS shave your back ~ ~ ~ wish you had MTV thinkofwaysyoucanprocrastinate watch the next great Quentin 
Tarantino flick wish you were attending another university drinking games alphabetize your COs do lavtV\d ""~ PLAY SEGA watch one of those "Real World" marqthons lllake a snowmant snow angel actually do the crossword puzzle in The Observer or1eaml play M*A*S*H call the Psychic Friends Network vvatch 
an infomercial from beginning to end watch the SimpsoVIs pee MAKE FRIENDSHIP BRACELET fi//outyourAccentEntertainmentPo/1 make your own home page learn to knit mde Sft:tU«} ~~ ~ play euchre visit the College Footbal1 Hall of Fame 
read ~rdu Lac" cover to cover pray HAvE A suRGER AT crs play Jeopardy 
COII/I( Dennis Rodman's tattoos body piereing build something with Legos read tabloids and see where OJ Simpson is bake a 
cake...lrom scratch whine to your tnom about how much work you have to do explore the night life in South Bend 
1earn how to play an instrument read the dft>tionary cnoowrJlllkiD~ fboorJ ~aooruw ~d«t ~ anything but 
study anvt~ini! but studv anything but study anything but study anything but study 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 1, 1995 
• COllEGE fOOTBAlL 
Razorbacks looking to pull upset of Gators 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA Danny Ford and Arkansas needed each other. 
Despite winning a national champi­onship at Clemson, Ford had become persona non grata in the coaching profession after the Tigers were accused of violating NCAA rules. 
He wound up as an "advisory" coach at Arkansas, a former kingpin of Southwest football which needed plenty of advice on how to win after switching to the Southeastern Conference . 
Arkansas -the school of Frank 
Broyles and Lou Holtz, Jimmy Johnson and Jerry Jones -wasn't even the most popular team on campus by the time Ford became coach in 1993. That honor belonged to Nolan Richardson and his basketball squad. 
"People usually_ talk about the basket­ball team during football season," said running back Madre Hill, the third-lead­ing rusher in the SEC with 1,366 yards this season. "We've sort of changed that this year." 
Only after Ford changed his run-ori­ented ways, allowing Barry Lunney, a prolific passer in high school, to throw the ball more. As a sign that things would be different this year, Ford, a Bear Bryant disciple, harped on the two­minute drill during fall practice and even approved -egad! -the shotgun. 

"The presence of the shotgun shows a different philosophy," offensive coordi­nator Rocky Felker said during the sea­son. "As an offense staff, we felt that was the route we needed to go. I think. coach Ford w.as making sure we really believed it." 
They did. Arkansas shook up the SEC with a 20-19 victory at Alabama in the third game of the season and all but wrapped up the Western Division title with a 30-28 upset of preseason favorite Auburn. Even a dismal 28-0 loss to the Louisiana State in the regular season finale failed to diminish the redemption of both Ford and the entire Arkansas program. 
"You knew that there was something there," Hill said. "It was just a matter of us getting our team together. We knew we had the type of athletes that could turn this program around." 
No one gives the No. 23 Razorbacks much of a chance in Saturday's SEC championship game against second­ranked Florida (11-0) at the Georgia Dome. Then again, no one expected Arkansas (8-3) to beat Alabama and Auburn in the same season -especially after they lost to SMU 17-14 in the open­er. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 

Mark's Towing Roadside Service,Tire Changing, Jumpstarts,Many Services .. We Accept Checks & Charge Student & Senior Discounts 
• 
Damage Free Towing 

• 
24 Hours • Motor Club Servicer Ph#(219)271-2382 


Friday 7 & 9:30 Sunday 1 & 3 The Santa Clause Carroll Auditorium, SMC $2 Sponsored by SAB 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days $2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/1511-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel1-800-678­6386 
• • Spring Break • • TO MAZATLAN, MEXICO from $399. Airn nights hotel. Free night­ly parties/discounts. Call Ron 800­288-0328 
Anyone going to the Springsteen concert at Rosemont on 12/3? 2 people need a ride! Call Kath x2930 
CARE Presents: 
"WHEN A KISS IS NOT JUST A KISS" 
an interactive play Monday, Dec 4 at 7:30 pm in the Library Auditorium 
ILOST & FOUND I 
!1!1!!! LOST !!!!1!1! 

Prescription Glasses Brown/orange and black around lenses. Thin gold frames. Light weight lenses. Lost during last week of Oct-now. Call Mike @ 1 0782 
Found Bracelet in CCMB -Call 1­4178,to identify or claim. 
FOUND: light weight prescription lens, outside the bookstore. Probably buried under snow before it melted. 
Ryan x1648, 323 St. Ed's 
LOST: 
SOMEONE MISTAKENLY TOOK MY CALCULUS BOOK AND NOTEBOOK ON MONDAY, 11/13, FROM THE COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE. 
PLEASE CALL HANY 233-8273 OR TAKE TO LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
I lost my BLUE PULLOVER JACK­ET at Senior Bar last week. 
If you have seen it it would be greatly appreciated if you could return it 
$$$$$$$$$$ 
Call Greg Sinnott at 4-2055. 
FOUND: 1 Large gold hoop earring bet Nieuwland & Lafortune. Call x3252 
LOST: silver earring with black stone & French hook in SOH. 
Please call Kristin at X3534. 
LOST: 1 knit glove, light blue with pink stripes. caii·Kristin at X3534. 
WANTED 
• • • FREE TRIPS & CASH • • • Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break compa­ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­EL (800)95-BREAK! 
Two genial guys looking for rides 
home to Eastern Mass. over 
Christmas break. Will split 
gas/tolls/etc. If you can only take 
one of us home, that's fine too. 
Please call Tom x1173 or Marty 
x3419 as soon as possible. 
NEED PERSON TO EDIT 1/2 IN. 
VIDEO TAPE FOR PUBLIC 
ACCESS (local cable TCI) SHOW. 
NICE HISTORIC PIECE. 
WILL INSTRUCT. 289-2906. 
SPRING BREAK! TRAVEL FREEl! WITH SUN SPLASH TOURS "THE RELIABLE SPRING BREAK COMPANY." FIND OUT HOW HUNDREDS OF STUDENTS LIKE ME ARE ALREADY EARNING FREE TRIPS AND LOTS OF CASH. IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN BECOMING A CAMPUS REP CONTACT CHRISTINA AT 234-3396 CALL NOW!!!I 
Creative Individual wanted to care 
for two children (ages 5 & 3) in our 
home two mornings per week dur­
ing 2nd semester. Need enthusi­
asm, transportation. Call 289­
7017. 

NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext N55843 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal & full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-634-0468 ext C55842 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND 
232-2595 READY NOW FOR SPRING SEMESTER 3-4 Bedroom 2 blks from campus Newly remodeled with W/D OW Fridge Stove Huge Yard Full Basement and Monitored Security Sys Included $240/person or $900/mo Will help individuals needing a room. Call Mike @ 233-9609 for details 
One person furnished apt 
3.5 miles from campus Must see Call after 6:00 232-0355 
ATIRACTIVE SINGLE ROOM Available now. Can be reserved for 95-96. $200 Mo. Female Only. 282-2576 
Furnished house for rent Seeking 2 female roomates, 1 mile from ND campus. 3 bedrooms, basement, fenced in yard, new stove and trig. Avail. Jan 2. Call219-923-7246 
FOR SALE •-,.,-•....-.........-* ....-.....-.-*-.-*-.-.-.-.-•.• 
Hey Ski Buffs ... 
ND Ski Team T-shirts Only $101 
Call today and receive your shirt folded for no extra charge! Wow! Potter @ 232-2955 
••••••• * •••••••••••••
---. --. ------. -----­
The Dating Handbook-2002 Things to do on a Date. Fun, Silly, Romantic, Unique-132 pages. $8.95 to Goshen Publishers, 422 
W. Lincoln Hwy, Suite 121, Exton, PA 19341 
Glass Front Hutch: Solid Wood. $250 Call 282-2576. 
2 ROUNDTRIP AIRLINE TIX ­INDY TO SARASOTA. 
LV. DEC 22, RETURN DEC. 31. 288-0702. 
85 Jimmy 4x4 Low miles great cond. $4500 273-4762 
81 Ford Mustang, T-tops, chrome wheels, rebuilt, straight-6 engine. tint. Runs very well. $1950 o.b.o. Call Isaac at 634-1668 
PUT SOME PUNCH IN YOUR WEAK-ASS SYSTEM with my lnfiniti subwoofer­needs satellite speakers Jim X1581 
PERSONAL 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
We're open for your convenience!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri.: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat.: Noon -6:00pm Sun.: Noon-Midnight 
(closed home football Saturdays) 
0a0a0a0a0a0o0a0a0a0o0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0 
DON'T YOU CARE ABOUT YOUR HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT?!? 
I thought so.... Unique gift ideas which you are bound to like. Check it out! Not sold in stores! Call 634-2113. 
Student Activities is still accepting applications for: 
STEPAN BUILDING MANAGERS 
BUILDING SET UP CREW 
SOUND TECHNICIANS 
Pick up applications at 315 LaFortune. Deadline Wed,Dec 6. For information call631-7308. 
-.-. -·-. -·-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-. 
HEY KIDS!I!!!!!!!IIIII 
HAVE YOU FOUND THE 
password 
YET? ITS NOT FAR NOW. 
TONIGHT ONLY. THE DANCE EVENT OF THE YEAR-
a rave party 
NINE TO TWO IN LAFORTUNE 
BALLROOM FOR ONE BUCK 
DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY TO PULSATING TECHNO AND EUROPEAN SOUNDS UNDER BLACK AND STROBE LIGHTS, IN THE HAZE OF A BUBBLE AND SMOKE MACHINE 
AND PICK UP SOME LASER RINGS, CANDY NECKLACES AND LIGHT GLASSES. 
this is NOT a normal nd event. come see for yourself. 
B.Y.OX 
•• * •••••••••••••• 
Call Tricia and wish her Happy 
Birthday!! x2988 
I bought a bourgeois house in the Hollywood hills with a trunk load of hundred thou­sand dollar bills man came by to hook up my cable tv, we settled in for the night my baby and me We switched round and round till half past dawn But there were 57 channels and nothing on 
THE LAST ISSUE OF THE 
OBSERVER WILL BE ON 
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 6. 
YOU HAVE UNTIL 3 PM ON 
TUESDAY TO PUT IN YOUR 
CHRISTMAS CLASSIFIEDS TO 
YOUR FRIENDS AND TO WISH 
THEM GOOD LUCK DURING 
FINALS. 
GEORGE AND THE FREEKS!I 
Buy a jewel case, get the CD free!! 
JOIN US ON THE RIDE available now for $10.00 
Needed: Live male entertainment for a 21st birthday party! Call 273-4959 immediately! Will pay$$$! 
Posse out.. 
ADOPTION­
A wonderful home awaits your 
baby. Happily married, financially 
secure couple will give much love. 
Expenses paid. Call Margaret or 
Peter at 800-529-8386. 

ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure professional couple wishes to adopt Your baby would be cher­shised and loved in a warm and happy home. Let us help you. We can provide medical, legal, counsel­ing, approved living expenses. Call Cindy or Stan at 1-800-752-1636, or attorney Glenna 1-800-241-5384. Confidential. 
The password is: 
Land SliDe 
GEORGE AND THE FREEKS The new CD is here! I! Join Us at the release party: SATURDAY, DEC. 2nd . Dalloway's Coffeehouse, SMC 
8:00 Leonard Jones Potential 
10:00 George & the Freeks CO's $10.00 All ages; No cover charge! JOIN US ON THE RIDE ... 
Hey Jen, Ride'm Cowboy! 
AS-One more from the great Python: 
One, two, five--no wait. three! 
-AC 
Happy Birthday Tricia!l 
GET READY, GET OILED UP, 
AND SLAP ON YOUR BIG RED 
BOW FOR ISABELLE'S 22nd 
BIRTHDAY BASH TONIGHT AT TURTLE CREEK! 
I need a ride 2 Iowa City for 
X-mas Jim X1581 

Samuele has No Fear 
Gimme some greens!!! 
Who Rocks the House? Casi 
Jones Rocks the House! 
Isn't it great that the coolest sea 
monkey is a girl? Let's call her 
Coolia. 

Happy 21st birthday Ashley 
Denniston. Tonight, you will be my 
hero if all goes according to plan. 
I once knew a kid who chewed those tags from chairs and clothes and one day he swallowed one and he didn't sleep for months ... and you don't want to battle with insomnia any more than necessary.. 
***WASHINGTON, D.c:•• 
If you'd like to go to the March for Life in January, sign-ups will be at both dining halls at dinner on Monday and Tuesday. For more info, leave a message at 1-9006. 
cora, I hope that you get that tinng for saint Nick's day. It will look very cute in our room. 
Hey Illinois Farmer, It's all over now, but I got in one last Raiders preview for you. -The Dean of Local Sports 
SLOTH LOVE CHUNK 
Blum, you are a heartbreaker.. 
Dante is the Inferno. You can't stop him. You can't contain him. You can't even be as cool as he is. 
I'm wide awake , I'm wide awake, 
I'm not sleeping. 0 no, no,no. 
Mr. Tambourine Man ... Oh, Mr. Tambourine Man ... 
FIESTANG FILIPINO (Filipino-fest) 
Saturday, December 2 South Dining Hall 7p.m. 

Philippine phood, dancing, singing, phun! Tickets @ LaFortune Info desk or at the door--$7 
FIESTAG FILIPINO 
Funky Ceili. 

I wish South Bend had something as cool as The Network. 
My dream is to one day wear a 
muscle shirt and be big enough to 
enter the realm of the upstairs. 
Why is everyone so infatuated with this Coolio freak. What ever hap­pened to old standbys like the Fat Boys, Run DMC and, perhaps the most talented rap artist of all time, Bizmarkie. That guy had style. In fact, he was the original House of Style 
Clean up your mess! 

14 days and counting. Senioritis is 
more acute now than ever. 
Hey Erin, 

Just because we brought it in all in one doesn't mean you have to drink it all in one night Have fun and no more incriminating pictures. 
·--Sean 
Kate-

Tonight will be the best ever, we 
will have fun, and you can even tell 
me to leave if you want! 

"She ain't never done nothin' to 
nobody, she ain't never taken noth­
in' from nobody. She's a good girl; 
she's clean. She's goin' to college" 
-Bumpy 

Dennis-I'm sorry for my behavior! -Madly 
Filling space is so much fun! 

It's a sad day when grown men can walk around saying "Nil" to poor old women. 
Colleen­

! really don't care if there's a fire, 
and i must say i admire your 

escape route techniques. Now just 
get those socks out of your bed and 
we'll be fine. 

love-A 
To all my friends on The Observer 
Staff, especially the Thursday night 
crew: 

It's been great working with you, I can't believe it's all over now. can't think of a better job on cam­pus or better people to work with. My Thursday nights will never be the same again. I'll rniss you all, yes, even O'Hara. Keep in touch, you know I'm never far away. 
Love, Andy C. 
Friday, December 1, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

Chiefs, history, up against Raiders 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Associattd Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. The Oakland Raiders have little Interest In history. 
They don't care about the club's long rivalry with Kansas City, nbout the classic line bat· ties between Oakland's Art Shell and the Chiefs' Buck Buchanan in the 1970s, about losing 11 of their last 12 games In the series. 
But they do have a keen sense of retribution, and they only need to think back to the third week of this season to get Infuriated. 
That's when the host Chiefs rallied to send the game into overtime, then won 23-17 on James Hasty's 64-yard inter· ception return for a touch­down. An official got in the way of receiver Tim Brown, colliding with him as Jeff Hostetler's pass flew directly to Hasty. 
It was the Raiders' first loss of tho season, and helped pro­pel Kansas City to the best rtleord in the AFC. 
"The first meeting left me with a bitter taste," said Raiders defensive end Aundray Bruce. "That was a game I felt like we should have won." 
For the Chiefs, that win pro­vided a boost for a team still trying to figure out how good it was after the retirement of Joe Montana. 
"That gave us confidence we could get it done, no matter what the score, no matter how much time left," said Chiefs defensive tackle Dan Saleau­mua. "We knew we could get it done because we did it against the Raiders in overtime." 
Kansas City (10-2) can clinch the AFC West title with a win Sunday at Oakland. That would assure it of a playoff spot for the sixth straight year, the longest current streak in the NFL. 
The Raiders (8-4), who have lost five straight to Kansas City, need a victory to solidify their playoff chances and to prove to themselves they can win a key game. 
"We're a team that needs to win a close game. I think that's pretty obvious," said Raiders coach Mike White. "The differ­ence in our teams right now is in the critical games. We're a team that has beaten ourselves and not found a way to win those games, and Kansas City is just the opposite." 
is Graciously Accepting 
Applications 
For the Following Positions: 
-Staff Announcers -Director of Personnel -Morning Show Hosts 
Forms and Information Available at the LaForTune Information Desk 
{Applications due on Friday, 8 December) 
• ColLEGE FooTBAll 




'Barna gets reduced sentence 
By JAY REEVES 
Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA. Ala. 
Alabama's football program won the two key elements of its appeal of NCAA sanctions Thursday, and coach Gene Stallings ended weeks of specu­lation by saying he would re­turn next year. 
The NCAA Infractions Appeals Committee refused to overturn a bowl ban this sea­son, meaning No. 21 Alabama (8-3) won't make a postseason appearance for the first time since 1984. 
But the panel sided with Al­abama on two issues the school considered more important: It agreed to eliminate a third year of probation and restored nine scholarships. 
The Crimson Tide will still lose 17 scholarships through the next two years. a penalty the team could feel into the next century. 
But Stallings, who had said the outcome of the appeal could affect his return, announced he was coming back. He also admitted embar­rassment that the episode occurred on his watch. 
"It makes me bristle more than anything," said Stallings, 60, who has three years left on his contract. ''I'm anxious to get started recruiting. I'm look­ing forward to spring practice. I'm already playing with Xs and 


..
0s. 

The appeals committee action did not affect findings by the NCAA Infractions Committee concerning former player An­tonio Langham's dealings with an agent and bank loans ob­tained by former player Gene Jelks. 
But the appeals committee vacated another primary ruling against Alabama: That former faculty athletics representative Tom Jones acted unethically by trying to mislead the organiza­tion about the status of former Langham. 
The Committee on Infractions violated procedures by failing to notify the school or Jones of the charge before returning a guilty verdict, the appellate panel ruled. 
The appeals committee did not determine whether Jones committed any wrongdoing, but the acting chairman said Jones was again in good standing with the NCAA. 
"This action clears his record," said Marshall Criser. 
Jones released a statement saying he was pleased the com­mittee had thrown out the "unwarranted finding against me." Jones, who resigned after the initial finding of unethical conduct, made no mention of returning to the post. 
Athletic director Bootie In­gram also quit in the wake of the original NCAA decision, and university president Roger Sayers announced his retire­ment, effective next year. 
The Infractions Committee twice rejected Alabama's at­tempts to settle the charges with the NCAA enforcement staff before imposing the penal­ties and accusing Jones of mis­conduct. 
"What is now needed is re­form of the process that led to this unfortunate outcome," said Sayers. "What happened in our case should not happen to oth­ers, especially if the current process itself increases the chances of error." 
The committee, in looking at the third year of probation, compared the Alabama case with others it had considered that involved repeated or delib­erate violations. 
"The failure of institutional control in this case, while seri­ous, did not present those ele­ments. Also, the institution in this case took appropriate cor­rective action and cooperated fully in the investigation ... , " the committee said. 
Because of Alabama's correc­tive action, the committee said, the third year of probation and the loss of nine scholarships were "excessive and inappro­priate." 
The major victory for Al­abama before the appeals com­mittee was the first for any school in the three years since the NCAA formed the panel. Five appeals were denied pre­viously, with only Mississippi receiving minor relief. 
Alabama players had ex­pected the committee to over­turn the bowl ban, according to senior lineman Shannon Brown. 
"Selfishly, I would like to have a bowl game to display some more of my talents. Teamwise, we were looking forward to it," he said. "Now we don't have it. Life will go on." 
Acting athletic director Glenn Tuckett said Stallings asked to see him shortly before the NCAA decision was announced. It was only then that Stallings said he wanted to return next season. 

1991, 1992, and 1993 
Szechwan•Cantonese•American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 days 
r-Sunday Buffet Brunch-Everv Sunday ­$8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children under 10 
&nquet rooms 
a\lailabae for 
up to 200 

(219) 27'1-7376 • 130 Dixieway S. (U.S. 31 in Roseland) at Randall's Inn Svuth Bend. IN j 


B R U N 0 'S 
PIZZA NORTH 
US 31 North 273-3890 
Hours: 
Delivery 
Till 1AM Sun­
273-3890 

Thurs nch and Regular 
'Ti/12 AM Fri and Sat
Hours 
Lunch 11-2 

2 14" pizzas with one topping for $10.50 
CALL THE SOUTH STORE FOR WEEKEND RESERVATIONS 
288-3320 


273-3890


End. 
IISTILL THE BEST" 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 1, 1995 

flPRP-L 
~~nne~ 
We've 9ot }:'OrAl"' ~owel"'s fo~"' this weekend's dance 
*Lal"gest selection of Fl"esh-c"'t 
l"oses *Dail}' delivel"}' to camp~As *5t~Adent disco~AVIt 
*Located oVI col"nel" of 6disoVI aVId Jl"oVIWOOd 
*All majol" cl"edit cal"ds accepted 
288-7551 

Irish 
continued from page 24 
first appearance in the tourna­ment. "The coaches instilled a winning attitude into and their goal to make it to the NCAA tournament made us grow to be competitive." 
The Irish team knows that the match against Iowa State will be emotional. 
"Iowa State is a balanced, steady, and very disciplined team," Irish head coach Debbie Brown commented. "It is their first trip to the NCAA and they are playing with a lot of emo­tion." 
The Irish, on the other hand, will be calm. cool and collected as it is their fourth consecutive trip to the tournament, and they have an undefeated 3-0 record at home in tournament play under Coach Brown. 
"It is our fourth NCAA tour­nament for us, so it's not some­thing new." Brown said. "We know the excitement and the pressure that goes along with it." 
However, the Irish have a big task ahead of them as they look not only to go behind this match, but to extend their tour­nament play beyond the Regional level at which they have been knocked out the last three years. In order to ac­complish this, a strong win on Saturday will be necessary. 

"We have had good practices. The players have been well-fo­cused and business-like," Brown said of the team's preparation for the match. "The little things we've been· working on have really started to come together." 

~!r;::i;~;;;:;;;~~;;~~=~~r==;:·',~ 
MESSIAH 
The University of Notre Dame Chorale 
& 

The University of Notre Dame Orchestra 
Thursday, December 7, 8:00p.m. Friday, December 8, 8:00p.m. Washington Hall 
~'llJI( >J,Ufl~
$6 General Seating, $3 Students & Seniors~~,(~ ftckets available at LaFortune Info. Desk and at ~lit&& 
~~~-••~.a-~~-i~~~~-~-~~~~.~~~~:.~.~~~~::..~~~~.:~~~~~•·~· ···~~ 
burgh to claim the Big East Championship the previous weekend. 
The key to an Irish victory on Saturday will be consistent play and the absence of errors. They will look to sophomore at­tackers Jaimie Lee and Angie Harris to continue their domi­nation from the outside and ju­nior co-captain to manipulate the opponent's blockers with her weak side ambush. Behind the success of the hitters lies sophomore setter Carey May, who has led the Irish in all of their matches except on that she sat out due to illness. 
Freshman Lindsay Treadwell 11nd junior Jen Rouse will form a wall in the middle at the mid­dle blocker positions while Kristin Ervin and Brett Hensel will split time with Treadwell 






I BEAK 
DAYTONA BEACH lt(j'lf,t(fil STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
• PER P£RSOH IXP(NOIHG OH C.:STINAl'KW /BREAK OATtS I l.INGTH Cf STAY. 
1.;.-SQO.;.SlJt-ICII;\S·E 
TOLL FW'Il' INFORW.TION &.ll'll'Sll'I!VATIOIIS 
01 SUIIF Mil TG 11111110 SIT! l~ 


and Rouse in the back row. only are the Irish undefeated in a change in time." 
"The key for us is a strong tournament play at home, they What it comes down to for the team performance," Bro~n post a 65-4 record in five sea­Irish is a matter of desire and said. "We have many great sons under Brown at home. motivation. The 1995 season individual performances, but "I think that it definitely helps began with a goal of making it that sometimes has not been us to be at home," Brown said. to the final four and despite enough." "We will be. in familiar sur­some big wins and big losses, 
A strong team performance roundings and don't have to personal accolades and team could definitely be enhanced by worry about our sleep schedule accomplishments, that goal has the home-court advantage. Not being disrupted by traveling or not changed. 
c c 

ER.-HALL 
~ 


ALL-STAR GAME 
SUNDAY. DECEMBER 3, 1995 MEVO FIELD -LOFTUS SPORTS CTR. 
2ND ANNUAL INTER-HALL FOOTBALL ALL-STAR GAMES 
WOMEN -1:30 P.M. MEN-3:00P.M. 
* WIN CASH & PRIZES * 
Come AndSupport Your All-Stars!! 



World AIDS Day Dee.I,I995 
A Mass will be held at 5:00pm, Friday, Dec. I in St. Edward's Hall Chapel. 
Please join us-all are welcome! 
If there are any questions or concerns, please call Anne at 4-3731 
Friday, December 1, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• INTERHAU. fOOTBALl 

Blue, Gold All-Stars set to square off in Loftus Sunday 

By JOE CAVATO 
Sports Writer 
The men's interhall football season will officially come to a close this weekend, and it will close in grand fashion. It is not a championship game, but it will showcase some wonderful talent. The best of the Blue and Gold Divisions will do bat­tle at Loftus Sunday at 3 p.m. in the second annual men's inter­hall all-star game. 
The organizer and inventor of both all-star games, Marty Ogren commented, "It should be fun. We will have cash and door prizes. We want to get a lot of people there to cheer the guys on." 
The all-star teams are com­prised of four or five players from each dorm. The dorm team and coaches decide their representatives. 
For the Gold squad, Tim Nel­son from Carroll and Chris Bryant from Sorin will lead the offense. In their backfield, they will have some outstanding backs. Fullbacks Matt Bundick of Zahm and Joe Schenher of Carroll have been punishing all year. Tailbacks for the Gold squad will be the outstanding combination of Matt Mammo­lenti of Alumni and Dayne Nel­son of Fisher. 


Summer lntemship Opportunities with Deloitte & Touche LLP AB you prepare to leave for Winter Break, you are probably thinking ahead lo summer internships. If you have an interest in opportunities at Deloitte & Touche in: • Accou~ting & Auditing Services • Tax Services • Computer Assurance Services (CAS) Please contact the Deloitte & Touche representative in the office of your choice for more information. Office: Contact: Phone Number: Chicago Chris Powell (312) 946-3254 Cincinnati Bill Bagley (513) 784-7189 Cleveland Maria Mueller (216) 589-1386 Denver Cindy McGinley (303) 837-3336 Detroit/ Lansing Jeff Suchomel (313) 396-3123 Grand Rapids Jerry Peterson (616) 336-7915 Indianapolis Denny Faurote (317) 464-4212 Angie Kolbas (317) 464-4258 Kansas City Jeff Suttle (816) 474-6180 Minneapolis Connie Magnuson (612) 397-4225 Nashville Kelly Swartz (Audit) (615) 259-1800 Benny Gaines (fax) (615) 259-1873 New York Tom Madera (212) 436-2477 Oklahoma City{fulsa Gwen Mitchell (918) 586-8854 Orange County, CA Dee Dinelly (714) 436-7185 Parsippany, NJ Mike Power (201) 631-7239 Raleigh, NC Kim Ellis (919) 546-8039 Richmond, VA Jean Martin (804) 697-1506 Saint Louis Lynn Lyons (314) 342-1864 San Francisco Elizabeth Gillis (415) 247-4397 San Jose Paula Brotherson (408)' 993-4489 South Florida Bart Reid (315) 372-3126 Washington, DC Greg McElroy (202) 955-4121 All Other offices: Mark Chain (203) 761-3334 Deloitte& ToucheLLP 0 Deloitte Touche Tohmahu International M/F/WV  


The ofl'ense for the Blue Divi­sion all-stars will counter with a terrific backfield themselves. John Polk of Morrissey and Scott Lupo of Flanner will share duty at the helm of the Blue attack. In their backfield will be the skills of Flanner's J. 
P. Fenningham and two-time player of the week Mark Tate from Morrissey. 
Trying to stop the Gold offense will be Rob Holf from Keenan and the rest of the defensive unit from the Blue Division. At defensive end will be Grace's Tony Phillips, who has disrupted offenses all sea­son long. He will anchor the line, while the key to the defen­sive backfield will be Dan Drew from Off-Campus. 
The Gold defense should also prove to be a tough force to overcome. The line will lead the defense with the trio of Zahm's Charlie Kranz, Mark Troske of Fisher, and Alumni captain Avery Johnson. 
The coaches for this all-star matchup will be from the 

:~~~.h:.:~:.~~~:,• From$1ndianapol)is
& Ch,icago 
• AfT Non-Slop Airfare 
• 7 Nights Hotel Accom. 
4
• 
R!J Airport to Hotel Transfers 

• 
College Tours lamous VIP Party Package: FREE cover charges, FREE par1ies, FREE food & drinks, EXCLUSIVE spec1al evenls, OVER $150m savings! 


LOWEST PRICES • BEST HOTELS· BIGGEST PARTIES 
ORGANIZE A GROUI' AND TRAVEL FREEl 
cAl.\.. COLLEGE TOURS 
,.ooA"! 800-395-4896 
Pno.1 ~r ~non, plu1 ta••• Public Ch•l1an y.. North-•! Au!n\111 (A·320) Tour Op.ralor •• Funqu.11 Vae~~bons D•WII 111 OpfPa11 Contract 

dorms that played in the thrilling triple-overtime cham­pionship game. Chuck Hurley from Fisher will match wits with Flanner rector Fr. Bill Scotch. In last year's contest, Hurley coaehed the Gold squad back from a 12-0 fourth-quar­ter defecit to a 16-12 victory. Fr. Seetch, who came out of re­tirement for this contest, com­mented, ''I'm excited and I think that this is a fun way to end the year, with the best of both divisions playing each other. It is especially great for the seniors because it is proba­bly the last time for them to be able to put on the pads and play." 
Flanner senior captain Josh Quinn, playing for the Blue squad, noted that, "It's going to be a special game and it will most likely be the last time for some of us to play. It has been fun playing with all the players from the other teams and get­ting to meet and know them. We also have a great team." 
Gold quarterback Tim Nelson of Carroll agreed. "It should be a great time, the color guard and some of the band will be there. It has been a lot of fun making friends and meeting people from other teams at our practices. And, it will be good football with the best interhall players from campus on the same field." 
The game Sunday will indeed be a wonderful event, especial­ly for the seniors who will don pads and helmets for the last time. The teams on the field will also have some pretty good football talent. Fr. Seetch won­dered exactly how good. 
"If you take the best from both teams, what kind of good quality college team you could field. I am really impressed with these men's athleticism and intelligence. They are really great guys." 

"CRAZILY ARRESTING... STRIKING. STYLISH, ABSURDIST ENCOUNTERS STAGED WITH UNEXPECTED DASH." 
·· J«tl<ll Massir. THE "JEW Y()flK rtMtS 
UCLEVER, OUTRAGEOUS, SUBVERSIVE FUN!" 
• Bart.~a<a & ScOit &wet WNEWFM i SJEGl:L ENTERTAINMft-.T $\'NOICAH 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 and 9:45pm 
World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 


~-----·~-~----·----------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 1, 1995 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 

Hawaii site for Kona Classic 
Cheap. Not as cheap as a taco, but hey. 

StyleWriter· 1200 

Ink cartridge and cable induded 
Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh" easy. So easy, Deferred Payment Plan, you can take home aMac~ without having to make asinglein fact, that prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than payment for up to 90 days.t Which means you can also take home the 1 .. their already low student prices. And with the Apple· Computer Loan and 90-Day power to make any student's life easier. The power to be your best~ App1e.. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 · M-F9am-5pm 
HOT 

Burn, baby, burn-disco inferno. 





MAC. 

Not the burger, pal-the .killer computer. 



TODD FITZPATRICK 
Spons Writer 
December in Hawaii. 

No, it is not time for another Perry Como Christmas Special. It is time for the Kona Women's Basketball Classic. 
This Friday, Saturday, and Sunday the Notre Dame wom­en's basketball team will face some of their toughes~ competi­tion of the season in beautiful Kailau-Kona, Hawaii. 
In the opening round, the un­defeated Irish take on No. 12 Penn State who finished last season at No. 7 in the nation. Notre Dame hopes to avenge its two previous losses to the Nit­tarry Lions, which both oc­curred in the past four years. 
Other teams in the very tal­ented tournament field include No. 3 Tennessee, No. 7 Purdue, No. 8 Colorado, No. 22 Texas A & M, Washington, and Al­abama-Birmingham. 
Much of the success for the Irish will depend on the contin­ued domination by junior Ka­tryna Gaither. The 6' 3" center has manhandled her opponents 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
_,,..;~=·· 

Bowl Game Tickets -The Notre Dame Ticket~ 
will not have complete information for stu, bowl tickets until the formal howlinvita­are extended on December 3. Dates and of the student ticket issue for this year's will he in the Mondayor Tuesd!!Y Observer .. 
:···:·a'..,... · . :.::ik . "i:·~!~i:H+::·!,':! 
-Anyone interested in joining must up and pay a tryout fee by Thursday at 6 
of late, tallying nearly twenty­four points and thirteen rebounds per game. Against the Indiana Hoosiers, Gaither contributed 31 points to set the Irish career record for most 30­point performances (four total). 
Gaither's increased rebound total certainly pleases Coach Muffet McGraw, who was con­cerned about rebounding dur­ing the exhibition season. 
"We're working on it," Mc­Graw stated simply when asked about her team's rebounding. 
Considering the success of Notre Dame in their regular season performances, the team's hard work has paid great dividends. 
Senior co-captain Carey Poor echoed her coaches sentiments when asked about Notre Dame's work ethic. 
"We've been working very hard in practice." 
Poor's best outing of the year came Sunday against Bowling Green. She was eight of thir­teen from the field for a total of eighteen points. She is one of four Irish starter to average more than ten points per game. 
Sportstalk ·~ Join hosts Matt Hoefling and G.R. Nelson as .they welcome basketball guard Hoover this Sunday at 9 p.m. on WVFI.640 AM. 

Challenge~U-Rohics -The last day of "'H.,.,,.,.,.,, will be December 6th. The 12:15 classes will Junior guard Jeannine Augustin hopes to lead the Irish to ~ic~tries ov.~r through December 15th. top competition this weekend at the Kona Basketball Class1c 1n Hawa11. 
Poor also contributed a person­al best eleven rebounds to the Irish cause. 
Notre Dame will rely on its excellent work ethic to compete in Hawaii's very competitive tournament. Past experiences against the tournament field, however, have not yielded suc­cessful results for the Irish. Notre Dame has never beaten any of the teams that will com­pete in Hawaii. 
This season's Irish squad ex­pects to successfully compete against the top teams in the country. The Kona Classic will be an accurate test for the up­start Irish. A strong showing would solidify Notre Dame's claim to a national ranking. It would also give the Irish great confidence as they prepare to enter the heart of their inaugu­ral Big East Conference season. A disappointing effort would be an obvious setback for the Irish, but there would be plenty of time to improve before re­suming its Big East schedule against Seton Hall on January 2nd. 


'Hey, you wouldn't give your 1710111!Y away to just anyone, wouldyou? Neither can we. Offers expire january 15, 1996. No payment ofprincipal or interest will be requiredfor 90 days. Interest accruing during this 90-day periiJd will be added to the principal and will bear interest which will be included in 1/Jf repayment schedule. 'Tbe monthly payment qU()/ed above is an estimate based on a Iota/loan amount of$1,913.83, which includes asample purchaseprice of$1,799for the Performa 6214CD system shoum above. Tbe total loan amount also includes a 6.0% loan origiw­lion fee. Interest is variable based on /be Commercial Paper Rate plus aspread of635%. For example, the month ofCklober 1995 had an interest rate of12.17% with an annual percentage rate (APR} of13.95%. Monthly paymentfor the total loan amount described above would be $32.86. Monthly paymmt allllAPR shown tmllmn IW tkferment ofpriiiCI/Jtll allll does noiiiiC/ude slate or local Sllles lllx. Monthly payments ""'Y vary tkpendlng on actUill comjnlter system prices, total loan amounts, stale alllllocal Sllles taxes, alUI a change In the tiiQIItbly I!Grillbk Interest mte. Prequalification expedites tbe /(Jan process, but does not guarantee fiwlloan approval. Subsequent acceptable verification documents must be recei!'ed before)~Ur loan is approved Wbew, pap quiz on Monday. ©1995 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, tbe Apple /ago, Macintosh and "The power to beyour best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Mac is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc. CardShop Plus is a registered trademark ofMindscape. All Macintosh computers are designed to be accessible to individu­
als wilh disability. 7b learn more (U.S. only), ca/1800·600-7808 or 77Y800-755-0601. 
......---~-~-------"---~----"~"------___, 
page 19Friday, December I, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

~· 
THIS SATURDAY. NIGHT! ' 7:00 
---------------JOYCE CENTER MAIN ARENA 

(' 
NCAA CHAMPIONSHIPS -SECOND ROUND Nationally-Ranked No. 1 5 

NOTRE DAME 
-vs.­
Iowa State


CHAMPIONSHIP 
7:00p.m.-Saturday, December 2 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 1, 1995 
The Race for th,e Title 
A look at the four best teams in collegiate women's soccer this year 
--Compiled by Dylan Barmmer andfoe Villinski 

T 
he Irish roll into 
the National Semifinals with a 19-2-2 overall 

record on the season, one of their two losses com­ing at the hands of North Carolina earlier this year. The other loss and the only blemish on their 7-1-0 Big East · record came at home against Connecticut whom the Iris knocked off 2-0 to earn a spot in the Final Four. 
This is essentially'=~~~~~
the same team which , lost the National Final to the Tar Heels by a lopsided 5-0 margin, except for one notable difference: big game experience. 
The consensus about this team is that they are stronger mentally than last year's squad, and the feeling amongst those associated with the team is that this is their year to win it all. 
The Irish are characterized by a solid overall team work ethic, timely scor­ing, and strong defense led by junior goaltender Jen Renola. Renola, who has started all 23 games this season, anchors a defense which has yielded just 15 goals all season. 
Offensively, the Irish have tallied 88 goals on the season, with three players having registered over 10 goals on the year. Freshman phenom Monica Gerardo has led the attack with 20 goals and 51 points from her striker posi­tion. and senior Michelle McCarthy is second on the scoring chart with 17 
T
he Tar Heels come into the semifinals. as the team to beat yet again, ranked No. 1 in the country and the top seed in the NCAA tournament. Unbeaten all year, Carolina sports an overall record of 25-0 and a 7-0 mark in ACC play. 
The Tar Heels sport more stars than the Carolina sky, boasting three players with at least 19 goals and a defense which has allowed just five goals all sea­
son. An offensive ...n,.-.~ ••~ Carolina has tallied 108 go 
on the season, and has scored eight or more goals in a game on four occasions this year. Junior forward Debbie Keller leads the attack with 23 goals and 61 points, and senior goal­keeper Tracy Noonan has post­ed 15 shutouts and a microscop~ ic 0.22 GAA in 24 games. 

North Carolina is perhaps the dynasty of all dynasties. They have played in the na­tional semifinals in each of the last 15 years, and have won all previous 14 semifinal games coming into their matchup with Notre Dame. National champions the previous nine years, the Tar Heels have captured the national title in 13 of the last 14 seasons. 
The Tar Heels are extremely confident and well-coached. Anson Dorrance has guided the team for all 17 years of its existence, and has posted an almost inconceivable 348-9­10 record in the process. This team simply doesn't lose much. 
goals and 46 points. KEY PLAYERS: 

Women's Soccer Championships

It's hard to figure out where to start here. In 
addition to Gerardo and McCarthy's scoring 
from Chapel Hill, 

prowess up front. the Irish have a brilliant play­maker in sophomore midfielder and national 

North Carolina 

team player Holly Manthei, who leads the nation with 21 assists on the season. Notre Dame also boasts a nationally renowned midfielder in junior Cindy Daws, who has'fought off a nagging foot injury to register 20 points in just 16 starts. Renola is aided in the backfield by senior sweeper Ashley Scharff and sophomore de­fender Kate Sobrero. 
COACH'S CORNER: 

"I believe in our kids," commented Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. "I believe in what these guys have done and what they continue to do. If I'm going into this game, there's no group of players I'd rather have with me." 
( ) seed 


• Pmrn.ANIJ •SMU 
KEY PLAYERS: 
Of all the eye-popping numbers Carolina players have posted this season, perhaps the most unbeliev­able number of all can be attributed to the Tar Heel defense, which has made Noonan's job easy all year long. The senior has had to make a mere 27 saves in 24 matches all year, due in large part to the efforts of sophomores Staci Wilson and Nel Fettig and their defensive cohorts. 
The Tar Heel offense in by no means limited to Keller, as sophomore Robin Confer and freshman Cindy Parlow have both registered 19 goals from the striker position. Confer also leads the team with 18 assists. 
COACH'S CORNER: 
"The players are always burdened with the history of this program," Dorrance noted. "As a coaching staff we try to shield our players from it. If you start playing with that kind of pressure, you play not to lose." 
T
he Pilots join the ranks of the final four for the second straight season, The Mustangs are the dark horse here, having kicked their way to their first­
.. holding a 19-0-2 mark entering semifinal play. Portland captured the West ever undefeated regular season, sporting a 23-0-1 overall record and a 6-0 Coast Conference title with a 6-0-1 mark in conference play this season, record in SWC play -worlds apart from the 10-9-1 record the Mustangs and are 2-0-0 on neutral ground on the year. Defensively, Portland ranks compiled in 1994. 
among the best in the land, having allowed an anemic 8 goals against all year, Sophomore forward Danielle Garrett and senior midfielder Courtney Linex have while scoring 73 themselves. Senior goalkeeper Erin Fahey and her fellow defend­put up numbers that would make a statistician drool this season. With 32 goals, ers have been brutal on the opposition, allowing Fahey to post an unbelievably low Garrett leads the nation in scoring, and right behind her is -you guessed it-Linex, 
0.36 GAA on the season. with 31 goals of her own. The dynamic duo has accounted for 66 percent of the 
Despite boasting a very young team (nine of the eleven starters are freshmen or team's 96 goals this season, a statistic which leads one to believe that these two are sophomores), the Pilots have managed to make significant strides since last season, the Mustang offense. when they finished with a 16-6-0 mark, dropping a 1-0 decision to Notre In addition to their offensive talents, the Mustangs 
Dame in the semifinals. owe much of their success to a vastly improved defense. The Mustang defense has KEY PLAYERS: helped ea many o team would have to be seni 
freshman striker Shannon MacMillan, who goalkeeper Erin Poole's leads the offensive attack with 22 first-year jitters, as a mere 24 
goals and 59 points. The three­shots have found the back of the time All-American has scored 
SMU net this season. Contrast that Portland's last five goals, and has number with the 48 goals the Mustangs logged 11 game-winning goals on allowed in the 1994 season, and you have a the season. Fahey also deserves defense that is literally twice as effective as 
recognition here, as she has posted 16 shutouts in playing in last year's. all 21 games. Not bad considering she logged zero minutes in the net in 1994. KEY PLAYERS: Sophomore striker Wynne Mcintosh is second in scoring with 20 goals and 44 Offensively, Garrett imd Linex are the ones to watch here. Shutting down a tan­points, and freshman forward Kimberly Engesser has tallied 9 goals and 23 points dem which has combined for 63 goals in 24 games will be no simple task. in her first year at the collegiate level. Freshman Poole has been remarkable in the net, starting all 24 games and postingThe Pilot defense also deserves credit here. as it is the strongest statistically of a 0.95 GAA in collecting 10 shutouts in her first collegiate season. The entire Mus­the four semifinalist teams. 
tang defense deserves accolades for their improved play this season. COACH'S CORNER: COACH'S CORNER: 
"Linex and Garrett are the top two scorers in the country, and there's no doubt-· "Portland is back here again this year, " commented Irish head coach Chris they've been a key factor in our success this season," commented Mustang head Petrucelli. "They probably have the best player in this tournament in Shannon coach Alan Kirkup. "We've also played much better defense this season, letting in 
MacMillan. They're very well coached, and they're a very good team." 
half as many goals as we did last year. I think these two factors have contributed the most to our success this year." 


Friday, December 1, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 



Soccer 
continued from page 24 
"I feel that we're the best team there," senior Hosella Guerrero added. "We definitely have the best players there." 
The problem Notre Dame faced in their first meeting with the Tar Heels was that the players were not playing their best. 
"In the game against North Carolina earlier in the year things weren't click­ing," Guerrero said. "It wasn't just one area. It was the whole tHam at once and that makes it even worse. The team was not playing well together. We were trying, but it wasn't happenif)g and that would frustrate us." 
"It's like they haven't seen us yet," MeCarthy noted. "We're a totally differ­ent team now." 
During this frustrating stretch, North Carolina may have not been Notre Dame's biggest enemy. It may have btmn the Irish themselves. 
"Earlier in the season it was all talk and no play," Guerrero commented. "We really wanted to talk it and do it and this would frustrate us. Now, we can do it. Our whole way of playing has changed and we're a much better team." 
"This has probably been the toughest year that I've had at Notre Dame as far as facing adversity and dealing with different problems," head coach Chris Petrucelli said. 
After setting the lofty goal of winning a national championship at the begin­ning of the season the pressure eventu­ally affected the Irish. 
"The expectations are so high and we fell into that a little bit," Petrucelli addtld. "We're in the Final Four and yet to most people that's what everybody expected and it's not that big of a deal. Well it is a big deal. 
"The injuries we had to our best play­ers also made things tough for us. Then we kind of lost our focus some." 
Of course, whatever does not kill a team, makes them stronger. Compared to the fight the Irish waged against these tough times, North Carolina might not appear so daunting. Notre Dame managed to pull out of the slump, realiz­ing why they were playing the sport they love. 
"The biggest change was we recon­firmed our commitment to playing and playing hard," Petrucelli recalled. "There was a point where we were kind of going through the motions. We got together and said we made this commit­ment, now let's follow through with it." 
"We've overcome a lot and proved that we are capable of doing great things," McCarthy added. 
Indeed, great things have occurred since the Tar Heel game. In fact, the Irish have not lost since then. With the team virtually healthy and a new lineup sparking a nine game winning streak, the Irish now look to make adjustments to prevent Carolina from closing out their season once again. 
"I think playing them (North Carolina) once makes a big difference for us," Petrucelli said. "We know what they have and know what to expect from them. If you look at the games we've played in the past couple of weeks, we've adjusted pretty well to teams that we played early on and played much better in the second game." 
Apparently North Carolina head coach Anson Dorrance has also noticed this. 
"I watched them play and develop over the year," he said. "They're play­ing well right now and we're expecting great competition and a great game." 
To listen to Dorrance is to listen to a coach who sounds like he was part of the Notre Dame loss against his team. 
"They have talent at every position and basically have no weaknesses," Dorrance added. "We're content with the fact that they have a skillful player at every position." 
A few of those players roam the Irish midfield including superstars Holly Manthei and Cindy Daws. Considering the Tar Heels' inexperience there, it is here where Notre Dame can capitalize. 
"We have a young midfield. That's what concerns us most." Dorrance said. 
"I think the big key in the game is if can we establish our midfield," Petrucelli remarked. "If Cindy, Holly, and the other midfielders take over the game, we'll win the game because we're better in the midfield than they are. We just didn't establish that in the first game." 
Both teams also rely on staunch defen­sive efforts. North Carolina is led by goalie Tracy Noonan who is having another outstanding tournament. Sophomore defender Staci Wilson also poses a challenge with her quickness and tenacity. 
"We are a solid defensive unit on the whole," Dorrance added. 
The most intriguing matchup will pit the Irish defense against the explosive Carolina forwards. Cindy Parlow, Deb­bie Keller, and Robin Confer comprise a triumvirate that the Irish could not con­trol earlier this year. 
"I think a key is shutting down their frontrunners," Petrucelli said. "Cindy Parlow killed us the last time we played. If we can shut down Parlow, Confer and Keller, we can shut down their front players as a unit and have a good chance to win." 
Senior Julie Vogel will draw the assignment of marking Parlow. Vogel brings a new dimension to a defense that has dominated a majority of oppo­nents this season. 
"The thing that is different about us, more than ever before. is that we defend very well as a team," Petrucelli added. "That's something we didn't do very well last year. That's something we've never done very well. So that's where all my confidence comes from." 
This improvement does not denote a change in style of play, however. "That doesn't mean were going to sit back in our penalty area and hope to 

withstand the barrage," the Irish coach said. "We're going to go out and try to score some goals. We're going to get forward. That's our mentality." 
Carolina's mentality may be affected by the fact that their hosting the tourna­ment. While the Irish look forward to the challenge of playing at Fetzer Field, the Tar Heels are relieved to be playing on their home turf. 
"The thing that excites us the most about the tournament is that we are in it," Dorrance noted. "There is a certain pressure to play in the tournament you're hosting. The athletic administra­tion has bent over backwards to put on a great tournament and we're just happy to be in it." 
Certainly, this advantage is not the sole reason the Tar Heels are smiling. Missing women's soccer Final Four's is not common place around Chapel Hill. 
"Carolina has an unbelievable tradi­tion and is probably the greatest dynasty in college sports," Petrucelli said. 
To keep pressure from surmounting, Dorrance prefers to shield his current players from previous accomplishments. 
"The players are always burdened with the history of this program," he added. "As a coaching staff, we try to deflect it. If you start playing with that kind of pressure, you begin to play not to lose." 
Thirteen national champjonships con­stitutes a rich tradition. It is a tradition which Petrucelli believes the Irish do not fear. 
"I don't think we feel like they're unbeatable," he added. "We feel like we're a pretty good team and if we do some things well, we will win the game." 
And there's nobody that Petrucelli would rather go into battle with than his current squad. 
"I believe in our kids," he said res. olutely. "I believe in what these guys have done and what they continue to do.• If I'm going into this game. there's no other group of player I'd rather have with me." 
4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE FOR DELIVERY 
-, r


r ---------I ----------,I
$5 DEAL $4 DEAL
I I 
Any Large 14" Pizza Only $5 
I I Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4 The Best Pizza at the Best Price 
Now, That's a Deal! Call 1-6902 
I I I 
Ca//1-6902 
I 

COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 
COUPON EXPIRES 12./16/95 
_j

1------------1 1-I . -----------, I 
$10 DEAL DOUBLE DEAL

I I I I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas
I 
You get 2 Large 14" 1 item and a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10 I I I
Pizzas for Only $9 Call 1-6902 
I I I Ca//1-6902 I 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95

L .J L .J 
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 

-~---------------~ 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
• HOCKEY 

Irish look to keep momentum 
Notre Dame hopes upset of Lake Superior will spark win at Ferris State 
By MIKE DAY Sports Wrirer 
The Eagle has landed. The new day has finally 

dawned. 
At last, the Notre Dame hock­ey program is on the map. 
The 3-9 Irish, known more for their new high profile head coach than anything else, has been in long search of a win that would show the nation that hockey really is a sport at the University of Notre Dame. 
To just about everyone's sur­prise, their search ended last weekend against previously No. 3 ranked Lake Superior State. Although the Lakers did man­age to salvage a split of the two game series, it was clear from the start that the Irish out­played LSSU in every aspect of the game. 
-. 
"This was a huge win for us in terms of showing people that we can compete well with the better teams in the league," said head coach Dave Poulin. 
Now Notre Dame faces the challenge of building on the momentum. However, it will be not be an easy task as the Irish visit Ferris State tonight before heading north on Saturday for a rematch with the suddenly heatable Lakers. 
After starting the season out strong, FSU has struggled over the last three weeks, winning just one of their last seven games. Heading into the week­end, the Bulldogs' record stands at 4-8-1, including a· lackluster 2-5-1 mark in CCHA · play. 
"We have to worry more about getting ourselves ready to play than about who we're playing," said Poulin. "The challenge is for us to maintain the effort for 60 minutes and not have the occasional break­down that has hurt us in the past." 
Bulldog forwards Derek Crimin (14 points), Scott Bell (11), and Joel Irwin (eight) will try their luck at scoring on emerging Irish goaltender Matt Eisler. Despite struggling for most of the season, the sopho­more goalie seems to have re­gained last year's form over Notre Dame's last four games. 
"Matt has really stepped up for us against Ohio State first and then Lake State last week­end," said team captain Brett Bruininks. "We are not the kind of team that's going to score a lot of goals, so it's im­portant that we get strong goal­tending." 
On Saturday, the rest of the Irish defense, including senior Garry Gruber, junior Brian McCarthy, junior Ben Nelsen. and freshman Benoit Cotnoir, will have to elevate their play once again for Notre Dame to have any chance of containing LSSU's high powered offense. 
Hobey Baker Award candi­date Sean Tallaire has terror­ized Laker opponents this sea­son, scoring 18 points in the Lakers' first 12 games. Center 

EARN CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS 
S15 if you donate alone (fia-st visit) 
+$5 with college i.d.(first visit) 
+$10 per person if you recruit 
someone to donate 
HELP US SAVE LIVES THIS HOLIDAY SEASON. 

HOURS: 
M-F 9-6 


SAT 8-5 

.. 
Brian Felsner (13 points), defenseman Keith Aldridge (14), and center Bates Battaglia 
(10) also rank among the CCHA leaders in scoring. 
On the other side of the coin, Irish freshmen Brian Urick (team leading 13 points) and Aniket Dhadphale (nine) have been outstanding in the first dozen games of their coll-:giate careers. Fellow freshman Cot­noir has even added seven points (four goals, three assists) from the defensive end. 
"The freshman have really come up big for us so far this season," said Eisler. "Now the rest of the older guys on the team are starting to perform well at both ends of the ice." 
The results speak for them­selves. 
RECRUITING UPDATE: 
Notre Dame signed two play­ers during the early signing pe­riod. Joe Dusbabek, a winger from Minnetonka, Minn., and Ben Simon, a center from Shaker Heights, Ohio, have both committed to play for the Irish beginning next season. 


Friday, December 1, 1995 
Senior captain Brett Bruininks and the Irish hockey squad hope that upsets over teams like Lake Superior State become a rule and not an exception this season. 



I wi{{ (joIn 

Jl.amission: $5.00 Stuaents: $3.00 
Concert anti'R.p.f!Ce tickg.ts avaifa6(e at Lafortune Injormatifm 'Desk. *'R...af!Ce irawin.g wif[ takJ pCace iurin.g intennission. 


friday, December I, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 23 

1)ot> '\•" 'itEAt> !Ill"> 'R"NI'-IN(',. 
T11A.,. "f't-~cn 1'1•.,.''-"-l:>I'I"'E \N 
Ttl'f. Top F•oE NAnoNA'-'-'1 
'Fo.. Sn>oE,.,. Wo'-~1-DAt>?... 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

DILBERT 
OVR COMMoN REF~Rt:\-KES. 1\RE ~VE~\'5 11\1\T ~E'I\:.R 1-11\I'PE.I-lED 1\~D P8J~L£ WE'LL 1--\'C~E.R \'1\EE\.' Wt. \(~OW MORE ABO\JT CelEBRITIES f>..t-1.'0 f"\C\\01-.\AL CAARACI£1<S \t-\f>..\'1 
~ VIE KI'IOW {'.\?ruT OJR N\:.\GI-\BoR5 .1 
l 
I 
!; 
a 
j 
~ 

DAVE KELLETT 

SCOTT ADAMS 
HE WROTE E..VE.R't'­

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
WE. HAD A MONK WRITE.
3"' 

11-\E. TRAINING t-\AIERHL 
~ 

ON A GRAIN OF F\ICE.. 
~ 

WE COULD ONL'< AFFORD
"' 
~ 

ONE, 50 YOU'LL HAVE 
51 Queen of the Misty Isles, in the comics 
53 Drumsticks, 
basically 54 Spot in the mer 55 Leonardo's 
ladies 60 Latin lover's 
word? 61 Tabula rasa 64 Colorado resort 65 Photo retoucher 66 Last of the 
Stuarts 67 Get penalized, in some games 
DOWN 
1 Golden rule word 2 Nuclear missile 3 Celebes ox 4 Apple targeter 
5 Hip hugger? 6 One, to Antoine 7 Fernando, por ejemplo 
25 Winter woe8 Humidified 26 Kilauea flow9 Miffs 

27 John Doe

10 Darkroom items, for short 28 Start of many resolutions11 Novelty song 12 Out grocery 
29 Small amount 

31 Modern maybe 
shopping, 
breakfast 13 Comic TV 34 Laotian money 
actress 36 Senator 14 Brindled cat Cochran 23 Yukon neighbor 39 Basketball's 24 Film director 
Archibald Gus Van--42 Freudian study 


YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
(For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of btrth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 cents a mmute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE weekend. Travel. parties and artistic 'IEXT YEAR Ofo' YOUR LIFE: projects all sound appealing. A Learn to how to handle hidden friend a..ks a special favor. Grant it rc;cntments if you want a rclation­if you can. 'hip to blossom. Showcasing your VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 'pecial talents will attract new finan­Tcxlay's discussions could bring an cial backers. Be honest about your end to misunderstandings with mate needs and resources. Career progress or offspring. You feel much more is assured so long as you do not take optimistic than in the past. Lasting on more projects than you can han­financial security looks certain if dle. Keep your temper in check if you and loved ones work as a team. 'omeone tries to invade your profes­LIIIRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A ,jonal turf. It will be easy to per­family gathering benefits from your 'uade higher-ups that this person's presence. A child's responsible ani­arguments are flawed. A child's tude impresses you. Your mate or courage is a source .of inspiration. partner offers new support. Say "no" CELEBRITIES BORN ON to pie-in-the-sky schemes proposed THIS DAY: baseball legend Joe by friends. DiMaggio, actress Christina Apple­SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): gate. lawyer John F. Kennedy Jr., Spend time sprucing up your actor Ricardo Montalban. home. Start with a simple-project ARIES (March 21-April 19): like cleaning out a closet. You Concern for your children is only need to get several bids if planning natural. Look to the future instead of a renovation. dwelling on past wrongs. A new SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. business venture could develop from 21 ): Those who challenge your a brief encounter with old friends. views may want you to persuade TAURUS (April 20-May 20): them. Your energy level should be Competitive games can be a lot of high. Do essential chores before fun. Never quit, even if you are far heading out to shop. from being in the lead. Someone or CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. ,omething keeps urging you on to 19): Get into the spirit of the season: victory. forgive and forget. Remember why GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you and romantic partner got togeth­Weigh an offer very carefully. er in the first place! Crack a joke Check to see that nothing has been and share some laughs. omitted from a contract. Visitors AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): from distant shores give you a fresh Listening to your intuition helps you perspective. Tenderness is the best gel to the heart of a personal maner. treatment for an emotional upset. A cordial chat with a neighbor could CANCER (June 21-July 22): A avert an unpleasant confrontation. new interest in technology could Look through catalogues for holiday lead you into an electronics store. bargains. Software is the perfect Christmas PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): gift for a computer buff. Put your Find time to exercise. Otherwise, credit cards away and pay cash for holiday feasting could lead to an your smaller purchases. unwanted weight gain. A friend's LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Pleasure part-time hobby could turn into a and recreation are the ticket this real money-rnaker.  
• OF INTEREST Learn more about the advent season at a Power Lunch tomorrow. The Power Lunch will be held upstairs in South Dining Hall from 12:15 to 1 p.m. Students are advisod to bring their trays upstairs for the lunch, or get Grah'n'Go's. The film "Search and Destroy" will be showing this weekend in the Snite Museum's Annenberg Audito­rium. The showings, which cost $2, will be on Friday and Saturday at 7:30 and 9:45p.m.  
•MENU Notre Dame North South BBQ Ribs Vegetahlo Calzone Broiled Haddock Cheese Sticks Stir-fry Szechuan Beef Hushpuppies Saint Mary's Chicken Nuggets Sole Filets Yellow Squash  
Clean Up Your Mess!  

• 
• 

ACROSS 
1 "Even Cowgirls Get the Blues" star 
11 "Star Wars" sage 15 Modern-day 20-Across 
16 Common first floor apt. no. 17 Riding around town, maybe 
18 Former Pistons coach Chuck 19 Cartouches 
20 Radio message 
21 "Lord of the Rings" tree people 
22 "Mmmmmm!" 
25 Back biters 
26 1993 Peace Prize winner 30 Word part: Abbr. 
32 Hank Aaron stat 33 Assign too high a rating to 35 Best in a race 
37 Jeans maker Strauss 38 Smart 40Mata-­
41 Smart Alex? 43 Singer from Ottawa 45 Hammer's location 
46 Kind of order 48Walked on 
49 First name in mysteries 


44 Fills with cargo 47 Roman proconsul in a 
biblical dispute 50 Weaver's fiber 52 Unwelcome 
looks 54 Suffix with myth or monarch 
56 To boot 57 When doubled, a fish 58 Heliolater's 
deity 59 Spanish painter 62 Presidential 
nickname 63 Inits. of 1933 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

.--------~-­



SPORTS 

page 24 
Friday, December 1, 1995 
Hitting 

* 

their Stride 

Adversity breeds 

The Observer/Mike Ruma The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Midfielders Tiffany Roberts (5) and Holly Manthei success as Irish The last time Wilson (left foreground) and 
were teammates on last summer's World Cup Gerardo met, sparks flew and words were 
squadiibut they will be battling on different sides exchanged. With Wilson's SP-eed and Gerardo's 
of t e ball tonight in the national semifinal. head into Carolina talent , tonight's match could get interesting. 

rematch on a roll 
By JOE VILLINSKI Assistant Sports Editor 
It was supposed to be the game of the year. After all, it pitted Notre Dame and rival North Carolina against each other right in the middle of the season. In the preseason, it

• 
was the matchup the soccer world believed 
would be an indicator of what might happen 
this weekend. 
All it did was demonstrate the Irish's urgent need to improve. 
Following the Tar Heels overpowering 2-0 victory, the women's soccer team found themselves in a tailspin heading into the lat­ter part of the season. 
Since then, improvement has defined the second half of the season as the Irish have translated this adversity into sustained momentum, reeling off nine straight wins. 
It is this momentum the Irish believe will carry them past North Carolina tonight in the national semifinals and possibly further. 
"At this time, everyone shares the same 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
feeling that we can win," forward Michelle 

With 13 national titles in the last 16 years, 
McCarthy said. 

Dorrance (left) does not fail in the Final Four. 



Petrucelli is UP-to the challenge and can 
see SOCCER I page21 

engineer the upset. 
.. 
-
• 


Football 
at a bowl game TBA 
Volleyball 
vs. Iowa State December 2, 7 p.m. 
Men's Basketball 
at Rutgers December 2, Noon 
Hockey 
ar Ferris Stare December 1, 7 p.m. 


Cyclones first NCAA foe 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 

It is all on the line for the fifteenth­ranked Notre Dame volleyball team this weekend as it plays host to Iowa State in its first NCAA tournament match. 
The Irish, who received a first-round bye, will take on the 22-11 Cyclones Saturday night at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Unranked Iowa State, who entered the tournament with an at-large bid after placing second behind top-ranked Nebraska in the Big Eight, defeated Idaho in the first round on Wednesday night 15-13, 15-5, 15-10. It is the first 
Women's Soccer 
National Semifinals at Chapel Hill vs. North Carolina December I, 5 p.m. 
Women's Basketball 


time the Cyclones have played in the NCAA post-season, and for the team's seniors, it has been a long awaited goal. 
"I got these seniors when they were freshmen, just in time to instill in them a desire to get to the NCAA's. They are the reason we are here," Cyclone head coach Jackie Nunez said. 
Iowa State is led by senior outside hit­ters Kirstin Hugdahl and Steph McCannon, and senior middle blocker Dana Mucha . 
"Being seniors, we've been together a long time and we've stuck together no matter what," Mucha said of the team's 
see IRISH/ page 16 
see page 22 
at Kana Basketball Classic December 1-3 

see page 18 SMC Sports 
Basketball at Goshen Swimming at Albion 

see page 17 







